.- -'  -.--L--a-—.r-~s, . * ' ‘
 "-52% - - . _
 -II‘ “fl-F 1' f I. I . .I' I. I. ~. I' 1 ' I - I q... -I‘ --  II I.
w H: NATIONAL RECREATION. Ass’ommlon; . MAY 1951 as: 3%... I i «I.
. -_- 1.: . - * ~ .. . n

      

1

- ' i-
- I _ r I

   

RECREATION

is one of the fields in which
SCHOOL ACTIVITIES

has been serving the schools of America
for twenty years. Under the editorship of
Dr. Harry C. McKown, well-known au-
thority on extracurricular activities, this
monthly magazine promotes the following
interests:

ACTIVITY PROGRAMS — Current thought of leaders in the field of democratic group activities.
SCHOOL ASSEMBLIES — An assembly program for each week of the school year.

CLASS PLAYS —Help in selecting and staging dramatic productions.

CLASS ORGANIZATIONS — Directions for the successful guidance of school groups.
FINANCING ACTIVITIES — Suggestions for financing student functions.

ATHLETICS — News and ideas on late developments in intra-mural and interscholastic sports.
DEBATE — Both sides of the current high school debate question.

DEPARTMENT CLUBS — Instructions and aids in the directing of school clubs of all types.
HOME ROOMS — Ideas and plans for educative home room projects.

PEP ORGANIZATIONS — Devices for stimulating loyalty and school spirit.

STUDENT PUBLICATIONS — Guidance in the production of school newspaper and yearbook.
PARTIES AND BANQUETS — Suggestions for educative and wholesome social activities.
STUDENT GOVERNMENT — Sound direction in development of student sense of responsibility.
MISCELLANEOUS ACTIVITIES — Music, commencement, point systems, etc.

Subscription Price  Subscribe Now

School Activities Publishing Co.

1515 LANE STREET TOPEKA, KANSAS

 

with Gulf Suni-SoiI-Sél

 

GULF SANI-SOIL-SET is the practical answer to
your dust annoyance problems. Here are a few of

the many good reasons why it will pay you to in-
vestigate this efficient dust-control medium now:

HIGHLY EFFECTIVE—Gulf Sani-Soil-Set eliminates dust
annoyance completely immediately after application.
No long waiting periods are necessary before the ground
15 ready for use. The duSt allaying effect is accomplished
by the aCtion of the compound in adhering to and weigh-
ing down dust particles.

 

LONG LASTING—Because of its extremely low volatility
and insolubility in water, Gulf Sani-Soil-Set remains
effective for long periods. One application per season or
year is usually sufficient.

PETROLEUM AND ITS PRODUCTS

 

MAY 1951

EASILY APPLIED—Gulf Sani-Soil-Set is free-flowing,
easy and pleasant to use. It can be applied by hand-

sprinkling or by sprinkling truck, and spreads quickly.

SAVES MAINTENANCE EXPENSE—Gulf Sani-Soil-Set
minimizes dust annoyance and expense in near-by

houses, stores, and laundries.

Write, wire or phone your nearest Gulf oflice
today and ask for a demonstration of the advan-
tages of this modern proven dust allayer. If you
have not yet received a copy of the booklet which
gives further information on this quality Gulf
product, mail the coupon below. Gulf Oil Corpo-
ration ' Gulf Refining Company, Gulf Building,
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

Gulf Oil Corporation - Gulf Refining COmpany R
3-82 Gulf Building, Pittsburgh 30, Pa.

Please send me. without obligation, a copy of the booklet. "Gulf
Sani-Soil-Set—the modern. proven agent for controlling dusr."

 

for Baseball and Softball

RECREATION

MAY 1951

Editor, JOSEPH PaENDEacAST
Managing Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON
Editorial Assistant, SONIA RAcnuN
Business Manager, ROSE JAY SCHWARTZ
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Recreation Administration, GEORGE BUTLER
Program Activities, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

 

Vol. XLV Price 35 Cents No. 2

On thc Cover

“When I was a boy, there was but one permanent
ambition among my comrades in our village on the
west bank of the Mississippi River. That was, to be
a steamboatman. We had transient ambitions of other
sorts, but they were only transient. When a circus
came and went, it left us all burning to become
clowns; the first Negro minstrel show that ever came
to our section left us all suffering to try that kind of
life; now and then we had a hOpe that, if we lived
and were good, God would permit us to be pirates.
These ambitions faded out, each in its turn; but the
ambition to be a steamboatman always remained.”—

Mark Twain, Life on the Mississippi. Photo, courtesy
Massie-Missouri Resources Division.

Photo Credits

Page 77, James O. Sneddon, Office of Public Infor-
mation, Seattle, Washington; page 79, Oakland
T ribane, California; page 88, George A. Grant, Na-
tional Park Service, Washington, D. C.; page 89,
National Park Service, Washington, D. C.; page 90,
State Parks Commission of Louisiana; page 94, Paul
Parker, New York City; page 96, Hal Harrison, Na-
tional Audubon Society, New York; page 97, left,
Charles Daly, National Audubon Society, New York;
right, Allan D. Cruickshank, National Audubon So-
ciety, New York; page 99, William Lee, Puyallup,
Washington; page 102, Memphis Recreation Dept.

Next Month

June presents a Special Summer Issue of the maga-
zine. It will be filled with ideas pertaining to summer
program, planning, operation, facilities, equipment,
suggestions for special activities and pursuits enjoy-

able in this best of all seasons. Program leaders,
don’t miss this!

 

RECREATION is published monthly except July
and August by the National Recreation Associa-
tion, a service organization supported by voluntary
contributions, at 315 Fourtb Avenue, New York
10, New York; is on file in public libraries and is
indexed in the Readers’ Guide. Subscriptions $3.00
a year. Canadian agency, G. R. Welch Company,
Ltd., 1149 King Street West, Toronto 1, Ontario;
Canadian subscription rate $3.85. Re-entered as
second-class matter April 25, 1950, at the Post
Office in New York, New York, under Act of
Marcb 3, 1879. Accgptance for mailing at special
rate of postage provi ed for in Section 1103, Act
of October 3, 1917, authorized May 1, 1924.

Advertising and Production Office: Jones Press,
Fifth and Fifth South, Minneapolis 15, Minnesota.

Space Representatives: Robert Edgell, 104 East
Fortieth Street, New York 16, New York; Mark
Minahan, 168 North Michigan Avenue, Chicago,
Illinois; Keith H. Evans, 3757 Wilshire Boulevard,
Los Angeles 5, California.

Copyring 1951, by the
National Recreation Association, Incorporated
Printed in the U.S.A.

 

MAY 1951

MAGAZINE OF

 
 
  

THE RECREATION MOVEMENT
CONTENTS

General Features

This Period Of Emergency (editorial) Joseph Prendergast 61

Recreation Comments ........................................................ .. 63
Things You Should Know ................................ ... ................ .. 64
Recreation in Veterans Administration HOSpItalS .......... .. 65

Where DO You Walk, Mr. Peattie? Audrey Blackford .... .. 69
ENAIr—Italy’s National Recreation Association, Lois

Fahs Timmins ................................................................ .. 71
The Need for Recreation: What Is It? Marion

Robinson ........................................................................ .. 83
About Boston Congress, T. E. Rivers ................................ .. 87
A Family Vacation on a Budget, Regina Z. Kelly .......... .. 88
Bird Watching IS Fun, Costs Little, Teaches a

Lot, Edmund Leamy ........................................................ .. 96
Recreation and Park Year Book ........................................ .. 90
Here We GO Square Dancing ............................................ .. 94
Needs in New Housing Units, Mrs. Roy V. Wright .......... ..104
Are We Adequately Meeting Local Needs? .................... ..107
In Memoriam .................... ..t ............................................... ..108

Administration

Pattern for Cooperative Community Planning,
Marion Preece ................................................................ .. 74
Suggestions for Recreation Training Programs In

Colleges and Universities, Willard C. Sutherland ...... .. 91

A “Flash Drive” Pays OH, Mrs. Lloyd L. Grant ................ .. 99
A Study Of Personnel in School Recreation ........  ............ ..103
Wading POOIS . . . An Asset or a Liability? ...................... ..106
Program Activities

Planning for Joseph Lee Day ............................................ .. 68
National Music Week .......................................................... .. 76
Creative Dramatics in the Recreation Program, Agnes

Haaga .............................................................................. .. 77
Themes for Your Senior Prom, Beth Wallace Yates .......... .. 80
Storytelling for the Not-SO-Young, Anne Majette

Grant ................................................................................ .. 86
City Pays Honor tO Founders Of Play ................................ .. 95
Fingers in the Soil, Frances M. Miner ............................ .. 98
Have You a Program on the Fourth? Robert Kresge ...... ..102
How TO DO It! Frank A. Staples ........................................ ..109
Recipes for Fun—A “Spring Tonic” Party

Rodeo Party .......................................... ..113

What IS a DO-Dad? ............................................................ ..115

Regular Features

Personnel, Opportunities for Summer Employment,

W. C. Sutherland ............................................................ ..110
Recreation Suggestion Box ...................................... .; ........ ..117
Magazines and Pamphlets .....  ............................................. ..118
Recreation Market News .................................................... ..119
New Publications ................................................................ ..120
Recreation Leadership Courses ............. .. Inside Back Cover

59

 

NATIONAL RECREATION

ASSOCIATION .

A Service Organization Supported by Voiuntary Contributions
Executive Director, JOSEPH PRENDERGAST

 

F. W. H. AOAMS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .New York,‘N. Y. Mas. CHARLES V. Iltexox . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Micbigan City, Ind.

F. GREGG BEMII . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Boaton, Mass. Mus. Jotm D. JAMEsuN . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Bellporl, N. Y.

Mas. Roarar Wooos Buss . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Washington, D. C. SUSAN M. LEE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .New York, N. Y.

Mas. AnTnUa G. CUMMEA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Jacksonville, Fla. 0TT0 T. MALLERY . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . ..Philadelphia, Pa.

WILLIAM H. DAVIs .. . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .New York, N. Y. CARI. E. MILLIKEN . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Augusta, Me.

Huar P. DAVIsON . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .New York, N. Y. Mas. OcoEN L. MILLs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Woodbury, N. Y.

Mas. PAUL GALLAGHEII . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .' . . . . . . . . . . Omaha, Nebr. PAUL Moons, 1a.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Jersey City. N. J.

Roaaar GAaarT'r . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Baltimore, Md. Josevu PaENoeacAsT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..-.New York, N. Y.

Roarar GIANT, 3rd . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Oyster Bay, N. Y. Mas. SIGMUNO STERN . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. San Francisco, Calif.

AUsTIN E. GaIrrIma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Seattle, Wash. GaANT TITswoarn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . .. .. .Noroton, Conn.

Mas. Norman HAaaowea  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Fitchburg, Mass. J. C. WALsu . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Yonkers, N. Y.

Futon.ch M. WAnaUIIe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .New York. N. Y.

 

OFFICERS

OTTO T. MALLERY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Chairman of the Board
PAUL Moons. JII.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..First Vice-President
Mas. OGOEN L. MILLs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Second Vice-President
SUsAN M. LEE .Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board
AoaIAN M. MASSII . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Tt'easut'er
GUsTAvus '1'. Kurt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Treasurer Emeritus
Jossm PaenneacAsT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Secretary

BOARD OF DIRECTORS

 

 

Executive Director’s Otiice
GEOIIGE E. DIcrIe THOMAS E. RIveas
Rosa JAT SCHVAaTz Aa'rssua WILLIAsts

WALDO R. HAINS'ORTH

Correspondence and Consultation
Service
VIAOINIA MUSSELMAN'
GEATauos: BOIICHAAO LOMINE WILLIAms

Defense-Related Activities
Gnome 'I’. AoAms HELENA G. HOTT

Editorial Department
DOROTHY DONALnsON SONIA RACHLIN

Personnel Service
WILLAIto C. SunseaLANo ALran B. JENSEN
MAAT GuaeaNA'I'

HEADQUARTERS STAFF

Research Department

DATIO J. DUBOIs
ELIZABETH CLIFTON

GEOAGE D. BUTLEII
MUIIIEL McGANN

Work with Volunteers

E. BEATRICE STsAaNs
MAaT Qomr MARGAaET DANIIVOATH
FaANces WHITE. Lee

Field D epartmen t

CHAaLEs E. Reno
DOIIOTHY FoaeANc JAMEs A. MAOIsON

Service to States. . . . .RanIt'I' R. GAmaLE

Areas and Facilities—Planning and Surveys
H. C. HUTCHINS ALAN B. Bonn-T

Katherine F. Barker Memorial
Secretary for Women and Giris
HELEN M. DAUNCEY

Indmtriai Recreation. . . . . .C. E. BAEVEA

Recreation Leadership Training Courses

RUTH EHLEIIs ANNE LIvINesTON
MILOAEo SCANLON' FAANE A. STAPLES
GEACE WALE ea

 

New England District
Run-[Alto S. WESTGATE. . . . .Portland, Me.

Middie Atlantic District
JOHN W. FAUST. . . . .East Orange, N. J.
Grows A. Nesan‘r. . . .New York, N .Y.

C reat Lakes District

JOHN J. COLLIEII. . . . . . . . .Toledo, Ohio
Roaear L. HOANEY. . . . . .Madison, Wis.

DISTRICT REPRESENTATIVES

Southern District

MIss MAaION PREECE. . . .Alexandria, Va.
RALPH VAN FLEET . . . . . .Clearwater, Fla.
WILLIAM M. HAY. . . . . .Nashville, Tenn.

Midwest District

AATHUII T000. . . . . . . .Kansas City, Mo.
HAAOLo LATHIIOP. . . . . . . .Denver, Colo.

Southwest District
HAAOLO VAN AnsoALE. . . . . .DaIlas, Tex.

Pacific Northwest District
WILLAao H. SHUMAao. . . .Seattle, Wash.

Pacific Southwest District
LYNN S. RODNEY. . . . .Los Angeles, Calif.

 

Afiiliatc hiembership

Affiliate membership in tbe NationaI
Recreation Association is open to all non-
profit private and public organizations
whose function is wholly or primarily the
provision or promotion of recreation serv-
ices or which include recreation as an im-
portant part of their total program and
whose Cooperation in the work of the asso-
ciation would, in the opinion of the associa-
tion‘s Board of Directors, further the ends
of the national recreation movement.

Active Associate Membership

Active associate membership in the
National Recreation Association is open to
all! individuals who are actively engaged
on a full-time or part-time empluyed basis
or as volunteers in a nonprofit private or
public recreation organization and whose
CooperaIion in the work of the association
wonid, in the opinion of the association’s
Board of Directors, further the ends of the
national recreation movement.

Contributors

The continuation of the work of the
National Recreation Association from year
to year is made possible by the splendid
cooperation of several hundred volunteer
sponsors throughout the country, and the
generous contributions of thousands of
supporters of this movement to bring health,
happiness and creative living to the boys
and girls and the men and women oi
America. If you would Iike to joio in the
support of this movement, you may send
your contribution direct to the association.

 

The National Recreation Association is a nation-
wide, nonprofit, nonpolitiea] and nonscctarian civic
organization, established in 1906 and supported by
voluntary contributions, and dedicated to the service
of all recreation executives, leaders and agencies,

public and private, to the end that every child in
America shall have a place to play in safety and
that every person in America, young and old, shall
have an opportunity for the best and most satisfy-
ing use of his expanding leisure time.

F or further information regarding the association’s services and membership, piease write to the
Executive Director, National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10, New York.

 

RECREATION

THIS PERIOD
OF EMERGENCY

Joseph Prendergast

ON SATURDAY, December 16, 1950,
the President proclaimed the ex-
istence of a national emergency.

As we all know, mobilization for de-
fense in this day of total war and total
defense is more than just the mobiliza-
tion of our armed forces. It is a
mobilization of all the resources of the
nation, including those services essen-
tial to the health, welfare and morale
of the men in uniform, the defense

worker and the home front.

Recreation, both active and passive,
is a basic human need. It is particular-
ly important in any emergency period.
This was proved beyond doubt in
World Wars I and 11. It is being

proved again, now.

America has the recreation resources
to meet its recreation needs. It has the
experience of two world wars to build
upon in mobilizing these resources. In
mobilizing recreation on a national
scale, it is essential to rely heavily upon
all the private and public recreation
resources of the country—at national,
state and local levels.

The National Recreation Association
has been participating in a number of
conferences in Washington and in New
York on defense programs of national
governmental and non-governmental
groups and agencies, through which a
broad background knowledge of de-
fense programs, plans and the com-
munity needs resulting from the emer-
gency has been acquired.

ln addition, the specific needs of
communities faced with defense-related
recreation problems are being revealed
in the reports of the association’s regu-
lar field staff, at regional conferences
and through individual requests to the
association.

ln January, the association appoint-
ed a National Advisory Committee on
Defense-Related Services of the Associ—
ation of fifty of the outstanding park

MAY 1951

and recreation leaders throughout the
country who represent the major na-
tional professional groups in the field
of recreation and are a representative
cross-section of local park and recrea-
tion executives who had war-recreation
experiences in World War II or are
now executives in communities impact-
ed by the defense program or both.

I mention this committee because I
want you to know that any action
taken by the association with reference
to any defense—related recreation mat-
ters is being taken, and will continue
to be taken, in consultation with you
who are on the “firing line” of rec-
reation.

We, in the recreation movement,
have the responsibility to provide rec-
reation facilities and services for the
men and women of the armed forces
during that period when they are in
this country and away from their posts
and stations.

The extent to which we provide
them with adequate and satisfying rec-
reation facilities and services will, in
large measure, be the extent of our
own personal contribution to the fight-
ing efficiency of our country.

I believe that it is our responsibility
to make sure that our recreation facili-
ties and services are made available. It
will not be sufficient for us just to sit
with a willing smile on our faces, wait-
ing to be asked. It’s up to us to do the
asking.

As we all know, one of the signifi-
cant recreation developments in World
War II was the tremendous extent to
which industries turned to recreation
to maintain and increase production
through increase in the efficiency of
the individual worker and reduction in
turn-over and absenteeism. It was
found that good recreation opportuni-
ties for the worker and his family help
to maintain morale, relieve the.stress
and strain of high productivity and

prevent the disruption of normal fami-
ly living. '

We cannot ourselves build new de-
fense plants, manage them or work in
them, but we can provide those neces-
sary recreation facilities and services
which will help to increase the produc-
tive capacity of our country by in-
creasing the productive capacity of
every defense worker.

I believe that the recreation move-
ment is definitely concerned with civil
defense and that it can make a real
contribution during pre-attack, attack
and post-attack periods. Local recrea-
tion and park agencies have areas,
buildings, facilities of all kinds which
could or should be used; they have
trained personnel to administer those
facilities and to handle large groups of
people; they could do a great deal to
build up and sustain the morale of
people in bomb shelters and so forth,
through the proper use of recreation
programs; and they could do a great
deal along similar lines for the morale
of the civil defense organization itself.

Recreation also is important to gen-
eral civilian morale. Modern defense
affects the life of every civilian—the
children of all of us, the average citi-
zen in fear of atomic bombing, the
youth who is about to be called to
service, his family and friends. The
last war also demonstrated the need for
recreation which will provide vigorous
and adventurous activity for youth to
help counteract war-time delinquency,
for the all-day care of children of
mothers working in war jobs and for
normal living experiences for all chil-
dren if they are to grow up to become
the sturdy, emotionally mature adult
citizens of the future with whom de-
mocracy will be secure.

Above all, we must not neglect our
normal on-going services; we must not
sacrifice our basic recreation concerns
in order to promote defense recreation
services. A period of emergency is a
period of strain, but it is also a period
of opportunity. It is for us in the rec-
reation movement to use this period of
emergency to show the people of
America and their chosen officials that
recreation not only contributes to the
national defense effort, but is basic to
the very way of life for which we may
yet be called upon to fight.

61

62

 
 

All backstops and miscellaneous gymnasium
apparatus in use at Tennessee Wesleyan
College, Athens, Tennessee, are Porter-made.
Porter equipment is found in many modern
gymnasiums in the Mid-South.

    
   
 
    
    

Main court at Tennessee Wesleyan 9 at has
226B Ceiling Suspended and Brace! Back-
stops with Plate Glass Banks. Practice
courts have {our 2128 Wall Braced Back-

 
   
     

staps, two equipped with 237B Steel Fan-
Shaped Banks, and two with 208B Rectangu-
lar Plywood Banks.

    

at leading gyms from coast-to-comt t/ae c/aoz'ce i5 Porter

the Mid'South picks ’Por’rer

ASK OUR
ENGINEERING STAFF

Whether you are plan-
ning a new building, or
equipping an old one,
our experienced engineers
can help you. No obliga-
tion. Write today.

1... ... E. PORTER

Manufacturers oF Gymnasium,

 

ClIClCO OFFICE: 554 ll. Michigan Arm. Chim- II. Film: 85min 7-7252

When leading schools, universities and clubs want to
equip a gymnasium, they turn instinCtively to Porter.
Tradition points that way. For Porter has served for
years, act only as a source of the finest in apparatus,
but of seasoned counsel on how to make proper in-
stallations. Write today for catalog material, and

help on your problem.

 

Ottawa, Illinois

CORPORATION

Playground and Swimming Pool Equipment

NEW YORK OFFICE: ll W. 42nd St. llltt Turk 18. thus: lOIzacre 3-1342

RECREATION

RECREATION

 

“Whither ‘Western’ Square Dance?”

Sirs:

1 agree heartily with the point of
view which the author of this article
has taken . . .

Frankly, I . . . even view with alarm
the fact reported in Sets in Order that
although there were originally fewer
than two hundred clubs in the Los
Angeles area, within a year there has
been an increase to a total of over
six hundred clubs, each club with from
ninety to two hundred members, from
thirty-five to two hundred callers. I
contend that such astronomical growth
is neither normal or desirable.

In addition to my “view—with-alarm”
theme, let me say that I am more con-
cerned with the multiplicity of new

dances which constantly are being pre-
sented. Each issue of Foot ’n’ Fiddle,

Sets in Order, Let’s Dance, The Round-

up and American Squares contains new
dances that some frustrated caller has
devised with the feeling that really to,
hit “big time” he must come out with
something new . . .

Last year, in an attempt to be just
a little constructive in this whole mat-
ter, I wrote to leaders throughout the
country and asked them to list the ten
most popular couple dances. I received
from seven leaders a total of twenty-
seven different couple dances. Tabula-
ting these, the following headed the list
in popularity: 1) The Black Hawk
Waltz, 2) Cotton-Eyed Joe, 3) The
Texas Schottische (or some variation
of it), 4) Laces and Graces, 5) Var-
souvienne, 6) Susan’s Gavotte, 7)

Road to the Isle and 8) Boston Two-
MAY 1951

Step. The Jessie Polka rated only one
vote and I would be very happy to see
it remain in this position in view of
its cockeyed choreography.

In the near future, I plan again to
write this same request to leaders
throughout the country and I wager
that in the new listing eight out of the
ten probably will be some entirely new
dances.

Another cause for concern is the zeal
with which exponents of the California
brand of “western” square dancing are
attempting to convert others to their
style. Bob Osgood, editor of Sets in
Order, and others have toured the East

in an attempt to set up a series of
institutes.

In the November 1950 issue of Let’s
Dance, published by the Folk Dance

Federation of California, there is an
article by Guy Merrill, who recently
completed a six-months’ tour cross-
country trek. In this article he states:
“. . . The American people today we
feel do not want contra dances, Ap-
palachian circle dances, singing games,
Texas dances, or any other sectional
style in particular. They want what
they themselves call square dances. The
nearest fulfillment of this style is our
own western style.”

It is this latter point of view about
which it seems that most leaders are
concerned since we feel that the type
of dancing that is indigenous to any
area should not be_hybridized with
that of some other section and, above
all, that square dancing and folk danc-
ing should never be standardized.

Would a discussion group at the
next recreation congress help clarify
this situation? I think that there would
be considerable interest in such a ses-
sion.

LAWRENCE V. LOY, Extension
Specialist in Young People’s Pro-
grams, University of Massachu-
setts, Amherst, Massachusetts.

This Business of Counting
Attendance

Sirs:
The subject of attendance reports is

one with which we have been very much

concerned here in Seattle. Recently we
asked a number of cities and the Na-
tional Recreation Association for copies
of their attendance charts. We have re-
viewed these forms with a great deal
of interest and hope to be able to re-
turn the entire file with some com-
ment. I have always found a reluc-
tance, on the part of the public, to
want to accept the multiplication index
as now indicated in preference to the
straight count on a three-time per day
use basis. This perhaps is only my
own experience.

BEN EVANS, Director

Department of Parks

Seattle, Washington

Sirs:

This subject has been debated for a
long time and will probably never be
worked out to everyone’s satisfaction.
However, I was impressed with the
way Mr. Rochford explained the sys-
tem used in Long Beach. It should be
useful to some of the cities that are in
doubt as to a good method of taking
attendance—and reporting it. We use
almost the same system in our city
and are glad to know that it is still

recommended.
RUSSELL J. FOVAL, Superintend-

ent of Recreation, Playground
and Recreation Board, Decatur,

Illinois

 
     
  
 

Contributors:
In submitting articles for BBC-

REATION, please remember that it

is important that manuscript typ- .

ing be double-spaced.—Ed.

 
 

63'

 

0 Two RULINGs REGARDING PARKS re-

cently handed down in California are:

A park is a park, not a parking lot,
a decision reached by Braeme E. Gigas,
city attorney for South Pasadena in
response to a request from an industry
to use Arroyo Park as a parking lot
for the firm’s cars. A park used for
commercial parking, according to Mr.
Gigas, would be “clearly incompatible
with the use of parks as known in the
United States.”

If the city council wants to build a
street through a park, the people must
so consent, according to Robert E.
Cassin of San Jose, who based his rul-
ing upon a city charter provision
which states that park land is inalien-
able and, therefore, cannot be used for
other purposes. Some attempt was
being made to extend a street through

St. James Park.

0 HANDBALL has recently declared it-
self independent of the Amateur Ath-
letic Union, according to a United
Press release, and has announced for-
mation of the Amateur Handball
Union to handle all national activities.
Announcement of the split was made
by Robert Kendler, president of the
Town Club in Chicago, who was
named president of the new organiza-
tion.

0 THIRTY RECREATION WORKERS from
private, state and federal hospitals and
institutions in Kansas met recently and
voted to organize a Kansas Hospital
Recreation Association in order to
raise professional standards and ex-
change ideas among hospital recrea-
tion workers. A live-member commit-
tee, elected to formulate a. proposed
constitution for the organization, in-

64

cludes Chairman Wayne Bartels, Rec-
reation Director, Larned State Hospi-
tal; David Gillispie, Winter Veterans
Hospital; Mary Palmer, T0peka State
Hospital; Ed Love, Menninger Clinic;
and Frederick Thomas, Osawatomie
State Hospital. Dr. Edward D. Green-
wood, Director, Children’s Division,
Menninger Foundation of Topeka, and
Arthur Todd, of the National Recrea-
tion Association, were elected consult-
ants to the group.

0 AN UNIQUE LEGAL WORKING AGREE-
MENT, formulated in Glenview, Illi-
nois, binds the park district and the
community Consolidated School Dis-
trict No. 34 for a period of twenty-
five years.

Benefiting both the park and school
districts, as well as the citizens who
pay the taxes, the agreement states in
brief that the school board shall turn
over its school ground property-——lo-
cated on three new school sites-—-to the
Glenview Park District to equip, con-
struct, maintain, landscape and oper-
ate for joint school and park district
recreational purposes. According to
the lease, the cost for development of
these new school sites will be paid for
by the park district. In addition to
the joint use of the grounds, the build-
ings will be offered to the park district,
when not serving school purposes, free
of charge for community recreation
purposes.

At the close of the twenty-live year
period, the school board agrees to re-
new the lease for a second twenty-live
year period should the park district
desire to exercise this option. Thus
the school board has committed its
grounds for recreation purposes for
the next fifty years while the park dis-

trict only is held for its share of the
lease for the next twenty-five years.

0 A TAJNT or “STAND-PATISM” in-
dicts the park man who is not meeting
the challenge of today’s greater oppor-
tunity to obtain more money and in-
crease park usage. So stated John D.
Pennekamp during the recent Park
and Recreation Training Institute at
Highlands Hammock State Park in Se-
bring, the first meeting of its kind to
be held in the South.

Mr. Pennekamp, chairman of the
Florida Board of Parks and Historic
Memorials and associate editor of the
M z'ami Herald, further pointcd out that
there is a well-defined belief that park
properties are maintained, in large
measure, for a very few people. . . .
“You come away with the over-all im-
pression that our parks are places
where poets may drift drcamily about
and commune with an understanding
nature. 0r where authors go for in-
spiration in solitude and to escape in-
terruption. . . .

“Our parks are a place of signs———
verboten signs. ‘Don’t Go Beyond
Here.’ ‘Keep Off the Grass.’ ‘Closed.’
F orbidding ‘contact stations’ that too
frequently look for all the world like
bristling, armed guard houses, stand
at their entrance. We charge a parking
fee and offer nothing to justify the
outlay . . .

“Now, then, as a first step to keep-
ing up with the times park-wise, I sug-
gest that it is our responsibility to
make each one of these millions who
use our parks our own particular con-
vert at every opportunity.

“Increase the usefulness and the ap-
peal of every property. Lower or elimi-
nate the barriers that now are a part
of so many of our parks. Let’s get
more people further into them by offer-
ing in each more attractive features. . .

“. . . Take down the ‘verboten’
signs and replace them with signs giv-
ing information. The informed park
visitor isn’t the vandal . . .

“We should organize clubs and so-
cieties within our parks—the kind of
groups that will keep our feet to thc
fire while helping us to expand, en-
large and make more useful our work.
Let’s become assets beyond the limits
of our park properties . . . ”

RECREATION

 

Even litter patients are able to participate in adapted bowling and other activities, as well as
in the playing of especially rigged musical instruments, although they remain in a prone position.

2W“ VETERANS AlllllNlSTM’l‘lllN HUSI’ITALS

AY TWELFTH is National Hospital Day. The day

is primarily medical in its significance, but the

vast expansion of recreation in hospitals during the last

decade has made the occasion meaningful to a large seg-
ment of the recreation profession.

Planned recreation for sick people is certainly not a
new idea, but the past few years have seen hospital recre-
ation come of age through a clear definition of goals,
adequate adaptation and control of program activities
and a general awareness on the part of the professional
hospital recreation workers themselves as to their re-
sponsibilities in the over-all medical treatment program.

The Veterans Administration Recreation Service has
incorporated these principles into its work with more
than one hundred thousand patients in nearly one hun—
dred fifty hospitals. In contrast to the average community
hospital, where there are few long-term patients, over
seventy-five per cent of the total VA patient population
has been hospitalized for more than thirty days. The
long-term population includes large numbers of patients
with chronic medical and surgical disabilities, as well as
psychiatric and tuberculous patients. The recreation pro-

MAY 1951

gram is conducted for everyone, but emphasis is placed
upon activities for long-term patients. Recreation has
been accepted by the Department of Medicine and Sur-
gery as a part of the total VA medical prOgram.

The development of hospital recreation as a profession
has been a gradual, but a logical, one. The first step was
the recognition of the need in hospitals for certain recre-
ation services. Recreation duties were then assumed by
an already-established profession (occupational therapists
frequently assumed the responsibility for recreation ac-
tivities in hospitals). Finally, as the role and objectives
of hospital recreation became more clearly defined, a
complete separation of recreation took place and a new
professional field was formed. Hospital recreation work-
ers who possessed the qualifications of the first-rate com-
munity, church or school recreation worker, and who
could adapt their leadership skills and techniques to the
peculiar problems of the hospital situation, demonstrated
to the medical profession that here was a valuable new
tool at the doctor’s disposal.

Hospital recreation owes much to the professional
stature achieved in recent years by the over-all recreation

65

 

The program is not unlike that of a large community or
school, the countless activities covering both active
and passive recreation for individual and group use.

 

Hospital recreation programs must “help the doctor cure
the patient” and be adapted to needs and capabilities.

66

field. Colleges and universities are offering courses lead-
ing to majors and, in some cases, to degrees in recrea-
tion. Church, community, state and federal recreation
programs have gained public recognition as social essen-
tials and are professionally planned, organized and exe-
cutcd. The armed forces drew heavily upon these civilian
recreation sources for personnel to man their recreation
programs in World War ll and deveIOped a wealth of
new leaders. Because many of the armed forces programs
were designed for use in rehabilitation and convalescent
hospitals, hospital recreation techniques were refined to
a great degree.

The story of the expansion of the VA medical program
in 1945 is now history. Faced with the stewardship of the
affairs of eighteen million veterans, including more than
one hundred thousand patients in VA hospitals, General
Omar Bradley, then administrator of veterans affairs, di-
rected the establishment of the Special Services program“
under General F. R. Kerr, of the Army Special Services
staff. The recreation program is under the direction of
W. H. Orion, who has been identified with professional
community, state and navy recreation programs. There
are in the VA today approximately one thousand recrea-
tion workers, of whom the greater number are college
graduates with professional training in recreation or
such allied fields as physical education, music, speech,
drama and the like. These professional recreation work-
ers augment their programs through supervised assist-
ance from over forty thousand qualified volunteers each
month, drawn from the community, neighboring colleges
and universities.

The program at the hOSpital level is not unlike a large
community or school recreation program. A listing of the
activity elements would appear superfluous to recreation
people, but included are countless individual activities
in the areas of adapted sports, music, drama, motion
pictures (35mm. and 16mm.),entertainment, radio, hobby
and other group activities, social events, tours, outings
and so on. These recreational media, however, have a
goal beyond the usual objectives of the community rec-
reation program. They must “help the doctor get the
patient well.” Therefore, while the joy-of-doing is im«
portant, the primary objective is medical benefit to the
patient.

The philosophy of hospital recreation is best illustra-
ted by specific examples of how recreation programs are
adapted for use in hospitals. Hospital sports activities
may include those of the average college or school intra-
mural schcdulc and range from archery to water polo.
However, these activities become part of the over-all
treatment program and patients participate only with
specific approval of their physicians. Recreation person-
nel keep the physicians informed of patients’ reactions
to sports activities.

With medical assistance, sports activities are continu-
ously adapted to meet the patients’ individual needs and

*VA Special Services encompasses canteen, Chaplaincy, library

and recreation programs. (See “Recreation for the American
Soldier,” Lt. Col. William A. Bis110p, RECREATION, January 1950.
-—ED.)

RECREATION

interests. Examples of such adaptations are the modifica~
tion of orthodox rules so that wheel-chair patients may
participate in basketball, and an ingenious use of wheel
blocks to enable them to enjoy archery, bait casting and
bowling. Even litter patients participate in adapted bowl-
ing from a prone position. For tuberculous patients with
diminished physical tolerance, archery bows have been
whittled down to demand less pull, and lightweight rub-
ber llorseshoes have been substituted for the heavier
standard shoes. Blind patients are able to bowl more ac-
curately when guided by the sound of buzzers in the pits
directly behind the pins. Countless other adaptations
have been devised, all with medical approval and guid-
ance.

The same medical guidance and adaptation of activi-
ties to patients’ needs and capabilities will be found in
all phases of the VA hospital recreation program. The
music program is particularly effective in psychiatric
hospitals. The finding of a suitable music activity for
regressed psychiatric patients was solved by the adapta-
tion of the primary grade music activity of the rhythm
band.“ Even music for listening enjoyment is carefully
selected by music technicians under medical guidance.
This is especially important where music is employed as
an adjuvant in conjunction with shock therapies, hydro-
therapy and pneumothorax treatments. 'Former wind in-
strument players who had developed tuberculosis have,
with the help of music directors and physicians, rechan-
neled their trombone, trumpet and saxophone interests
to the piano and other stringed instruments.

The movie program in hospitals requires that all films
be carefully screened and selected to determine their en-
tertainment value for patients and to eliminate those films
which might have an adverse effect upon people who are
not well. A 351nm. motion picture program is conducted
for those patients who are able to go to the auditoriums
which have been designed to accommodate wheel-chair

Recreation as an Element of the Medical Team:

0 Assists patients in adiusting ta haspital life.

0 Pravides additianal appartunity far dactars ta abserve
respanse ta activity.

0 Orients patients in their physical capabilities.

0 Contributes ta maintenance at normal physical health.

0 Develops interests and skills beneficial during and after
haspitalization.

0 Aids in social and psychological readjustment.

 

and litter cases as well as ambulant patients. For those
confined to a ward or room, the 16mm. program has been
designed. Bringing motion pictures to bedridden patients
necessitates a good bit of ingenuity on the part of hospi-
tal projectionists. Adaptations range from ceiling projec-
tion for patients unable to sit up in bed to the use of in-
dividual earphones so that the sound will be audible
only to those enjoying the movie.

The hospital drama and entertainment program has
ranged from variety shows, minstrels, revues and one-act

9!

*See “Rhythmic Activities in Recreation, RECREATION, April

1951.—ED.
MAY 1951

 

 

Patient radio group recording a show. Many of the hospitals
have radio systems with individual bedside listening devices.



\Vheel-chair patients enjoy especially devised square dance
figures—also basketball, archery, bait-casting and bowling.

plays to full length productions of such plays as Harvey
and Mister Roberts. These productions stress patient par-
ticipation in all aspects from acting to scene painting and
the improvising of props. Emphasis is directed towards
providing an opportunity for a group of patients to work
together in a common project and the solving of com-
mon problems.

Dramatic productions are also presented over the hos-
pital radio systems. In all tuberculosis hospitals and in
many others, the VA has installed radio systems with in-
dividual bedside listening devices, giving each patient a
choice of three or four programs. These are either re-
broadcast commercial offerings or patient participation
programs broadcast from the hospital radio studio. Bed
rest, so important in the treatment of tuberculosis, seems
to become easier when entertaining radio programs are
available. In addition, patients benefit by participating,

67

 

Children from nearby orphanage at a gala Christmas party. VA
patients often turn the tables and entertain community people.

when it is deemed medically advisable, in locally-pro-
duced radio programs, and act as disc jockeys, news-
casters, quiz emcees and the like. I

There are many other instances Of the adaptation Of
basic recreation activities for use in VA hospitals. Square
dancing has been enjoyed by wheel-chair patients through
specially-devised square dance figures; patients confined
tO bed have taken part in an Easter egg hunt by writing
their guesses Of hiding places, based upon clues broadcast
over the bedside radio; party games have been planned
so that whole wards Of non-ambulant patients may. parti-
cipate; hospital newspapers are published by patient
staffs with bed patients contributing tO both the art and
editorial departments; model railroading has been a suc-
cessful hobby activity in tuberculosis hospitals, where
ambulant patients construct a miniature railway system
in a centrally-located hobby room and bed patients con-
tribute through the construction Of individual model rail-
road cars and other small items.

The sum total Of patient participation Of 107,192 pa-
tients in 149 VA hospitals in an average month is indica-
tive Of the extent Of the program and constitutes an amaz-

ing assemblage Of figures:

AVERAGE MONTH
(As of December 31, 1950)

149 hospitals 107,192 patients
Amman SPORTS

Number of different patient participations" .................... .. 35,000

Number of times each patient participated ...................... .. 9
ENTERTAINMENT

Total patient participations ................................................ .. 5,200

Number of activity periods .................................................. .. 720
RADIO

Total patient participations .................................................. .. 6,800

Hours of hospital originated programs .............................. .. 2,700

GROUP RECREATION
Total patient participation in social and game activities 556,300

Number of activity periods .................................................. .. 14,000

I'One “participation” represents one patient participating one
time in one activity.

68

 

MOTION PICTURES

Showings .............................................................................. .. 16,400

Patient attendance .............................................................. ..1,007,050
MUSIC .

Number of different patients participating ....................... .. 23,000

Number of activity periods .................................................. .. 9,750

Hospital recreation is still in a dcvelopmental stage.
There have been many Obstacles. Some medical staff
members have been hesitant tO acccpt new programs.
Some recreation personnel have been over-enthusiastic,
but such Obstacles are being surmounted. The medical
profession has given support and encouragement to the
recreation leaders and has assisted them in evaluating
recreational serviccs in hospitals. The recreation profes-
sion has done much tO support recreation in hOSpitals
through sponsorship Of training programs, the conduct
Of research projects and by helping tO disseminate and
exchange hospital recreation information.

Many physicians have expressed their appreciation Of
the contribution Of recreation tO medical care, but one
Of the best summaries Of this develOpment Of hospital rec-
reation is found in a personal message sent by Dr. How-

A group Of amputee veterans who had just been
separated from the service were reminiscing about
their hospital days. Out Of this small group there
finally arose the organization now known as the
Amputee Veterans Association Of America, Incor-
porated. Chartered under the laws Of Massachusetts
on December 26, 1946, its purpose is tO establish
“a permanent organization for our common gOOd,
mutual benefit and cOOperative assistance.”

Members formed a softball team in the spring
Of 1948 and maintain an ambitious schedule. In
addition, one Of their primary interests is in the
develOpment Of the five acres Of land on the shores
Of Lake Cochituate in Natick, which have been
made available by the Massachusetts Department
of Conservation as a recreation area for amputee
veterans and other handicapped peOple.

ard A. Rusk to the students Of the second annual Work-
shOp in Hospital Recreation conducted at New York Uni-
versity in October 1948. Said Dr. Rusk:

“With the increasing recognition Of the therapeutic im-
portance of a dynamic recreation program within the hos-
pital, hospital recreation is passing the ‘radiO dial and
fruitbasket’ stage and is becoming a specialized pro-
fession.”

PLANNING FOR JOSEPH lEE DAY
July 28, 1951
Thc following materials, to help you with your plan-

ning, are availablc from The National Recreation Asso-

ciation, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10, New York.
Children Need a Place tO Play (MB 1235)—a play 3 .05
Few Of Joseph Lee’s Favorite Games, A, (MB 1236) .05

 

Introduction tO Joseph Lee (F7) ............................ .. .05
Memorial lssue (December 1937) ........................ .. .25
Pursuit of Joy, The, (MB 1553)—a pageant ..... .. .05
Script Of the Life Of Joseph Lee (MB 1107) ........ .. .05

RECREATION

Audrey Blackford

 

ALONG BACK last spring, sometime, Mr. Peattie took a
walk. He enjoyed it. He sat down and wrote about it

and said to all of us, “Walk into the world!” (See May
1950 issue of RECREATION—ED.)

Where do you walk, Mr. Peattie? Not in my world.
“No more is needed for the walker’s pleasure,” says Em-
erson, “than endurance, plain clothes, old shoes, an eye
for nature, good humor, vast curiosity, good speech, good
silence and nothing too much.” All right, I have endur-
ance, lots of plain clothes, many old shoes, two eyes for
nature, a supply of good humor, a woman’s curiosity,
good speech——until I started walking, much silence and
nothing too much.

Indeed, I like to walk. This sentence has been repeated
many times, in many tones. It has been said in tones of
pleading, in tones of begging to be helieved, in tones of
anguish. Indeed, I like to walk!

This is what actually happens. I prepare for a walk—
plain clothes, old shoes, vast humor, silence—except for
contented humming, a polishing of the eyes to look at
nature and strike—as the saying goes—off across coun-
try.

There are fences, two types locally. Type number one
is made of high wire. I find a post and climh up the wire
steps and then swing over. Rip, snag; there’s barbed wire
all around the top—put there for me, who else? Surely
they don’t expect the cattle to jump that high!

Type number two is just a single wirc. This means 1
wriggle under. I wriggle very low, but no matter how
low, it’s not low enough. Somehow, somewhere, contact
is made with that wire and electric currents push me
through. This is a mean one.

 

AUDREY BLACKFORD actually enjoys walking, especially
from her farm near Staunton, Va., to the nearby village.

NIAY 1951

Well, I am now inside the fence. There are three types
of fields. Field type number one is plowed. 1 start
through; a bird sings aloft; I look up and fall down.

Field type number two displays waving hills of grain——
pure poetry. I start through and stop. This is somebody’s
food; I can’t tramp it down.

Field type number three is covered with sod. Tum, de,
dum, duni—what ease to the feet. But just a minute, why
a grass field? I know that it hasn’t been planned for me.
It’s been arranged for Mr. and Mrs. Cow, of course. I
hear galloping hooves. I sprint to the fence and slither
under, or rip my way over, to safety.

I look yonder at the stately woods and my steps quick-
en. There is somebody watching—the farmer, his hat on
the back of his head. He’s thinking, “Now what is she
up to? No good, I’ll bet.” I look at the woods and again
at the farmer. He’s still there. I kick a stone and skirt
the woods. I am even the wrong sex for walking. You
can have the old fields; there are roads for walking.

Roads! Ten years ago we moved two miles from town.
Jim began stewing about the expense of a second car.

“Don’t let’s get one,” I said.

“But-but—you’ve got to have a car,” he said.

“Let’s wait.” An idea was teasing me. “You like to
walk. Four miles is ust a nice cozy distance.” That sec-
ond car never yet has been purchased.

Our road is narrow, twisty, lovely, banked with honey-
suckle. Motorists don’t like it. They are even now having
the honeysuckle banks cut away, having it widened so
that cars can come down it three abreast.

Motorists don’t like me, either. I do all I can to ap-
pease them. I hug the left shoulder, even stepping into
the_ ditch when two cars pass. I run two of the worst
curves. There’s no place to jump if two cars pass on
these. I behave as a pedestrian should, but they don’t
like me.

I am a road hazard, but the guilt is not mine. About

69

one hundred paces from home a dog joins me. He’s big
and spotted and his eyes are clear yellow. He pads along,
first on my side of the road, thcn on the other. Now a
car comes. The dog watches and waits. Waits till the car
is quite, quite near, then he crosses the road. Brakes arc

slammed on, gears groan, tires slide. 1 close my eyes.
Will they hit me or the dog?

I look at the dog. “All right, brother, you just follow
me to town. I’ll take you to the police station.” He fol-
lows along, all over town. We get to the police station;
I call to the oflicers and we look around. No dog. The
next time I meet him, I detour to the police station. He
pads along. I call to the oflicers and we look around. No

dog. Now, when those men meet me, they smile oddly.
What do they mean?

To go back to the road again, men drivers are prank-
ish. They take the curves 011 two wheels. It isn’t unusual
at all; I’ve seen it done. Then again they push the
throttle wide open and head straight for me! “But they
see me,” I tell myself hysterically. “But they’re bound to
see me!” They do. A whipstitch of a second before they
run me down they casually lift a foot to the brake and
push it to the floor. The noise is like a road crusher. The
car comes to a stop. That is, it’s not going forward, but
it bounces up and down. Women never do this. They

AGAIN IN I950-’51

04mericaéi gineét
Jthletic Equipment

is built by
®

for catalog, address:

Dept. R, W. J. VOIT RUBBER CORP.
1600 E. 25”: St.

Los Angeles 11, Calif.

 

     

cusrom BUILT

PLAYGROUND
EQUIPMENT

    

FLEXI SWING SEAT—$3.95 F.O.B. Factory

CHAMPION RECREATION EQUIPMENT
PHONE: H. P. 26880 P.O. 474, HIGHLAND PARK, ILL.

70

couldn’t, or all the children would fall off the back seat;
besides, women do not have man’s prankish nature.

I close my eyes and I know why I’ve been spared. My
Presbyterian faith says that there is a preordained, pre-
arranged time. There are so many pedestrians going up,
an arrangement has not been made for me.

My friends pass me, stop and yell, “Want a lift?”

“1 like to walk,” I say weakly.

“Oh, come on, get in.” They arc impatient with subter-
fuges. They don’t really like to stop for me. For onc
thing, they are traveling fast. They’ve gone way past me
and have to back up; it snarls the traflic, too. No, thc
motorist doesn’t like me even though I do my best to get
along with him. However, he could build me a little path
beside the road and we could move along together in
friendly fashion.

I am at home again, and what does Mr. Peattie say?
“When he is back at his own door, with keener blood
and clearer cyes, he feels that some minor grace has been
granted him.” Where is his world?

They say that in England there are milcs and miles of
walking paths and that when you come to a fence, there
are stiles built there just for you. You walk over there
easily—just following the path on and 011. The fields ar-
ranged for cows are well-marked and warnings are given.
There is even a law for this.

On these paths you meet your friends of both sexes.
They step over to call on other friends seven or eight
miles away, play cricket or tennis or croquet, then drink
tea and walk home again. Now there’s a world for walk-
ing.

Is there no other solution? Just one. Maybe. I wonder
if Mr. Peattie . . . No, of course not. But, if Mr. Peattie
could . . . Well, maybe. There is just a tiny chance that
Mr. Peattie might come and take me with him in a
“walk into the world”—his world.

If You Are Drafted . . .

Or if you are enlisting . . . be sure to discuss
your education and experience as a professional
recreation worker with a classification oflicer dur-
ing the required interview. Upon arrival at any
post, notify the local special services ofiicer, offer-
ing your services for possible use in the ’post recre-
ation program. Enlisted special services assistants
are assigned by the local units.

Officer persOnnel being activated and interestcd
in work in special services, may file their creden-
tials with the National Recreation Association for
forwarding to the proper authorities. (see RECRE-

ATION 1951———Ed.)

In either case, it is a good idea to file your latest
references and other credentials with the associa-
tion for use upon your return to civilian status.

RECREATION

 

ENTE NAZIONALE ASSISTENZA LAV-
ORATORI 1-—National Organiza-
tion for the Welfare of Workers—
ltaly’s National Recreation
Association. Close to three million
members, fifteen thousand local clubs 2
with their
twenty-eight rest homes, forty seaside
resorts and mountain colonies, 650 the-
atres, six thousand libraries, 11,557

this is

own recreation centers,

canteens, nine strolling motor-cinemas,
6.250 folk festivals, 1,366 night schools
-——these and many more provide an
impressive list of 'statistics telling of
ENAL.

The activities fostered by ENAI. are
various and numerous, to appeal to dif-
ferent groups and individuals in the

 

THE AUTHOR is at present teaching ex-
tension courses at Danbary Teachers
College. Last summer she was social

director at a UNESCO Conference

which was held in Mondsee, Austria.

This provincial championship bicycle race,
sixty miles long, was organized by ENAL.

At a traveling thcatre (Carro di
Fespi) of Dopolavoro in Italy.

ENALu
Italy’s
National
Recreation
Association

Lois F ahs Timmins, D.Ed.

population. “\rt and cultural activities,
folk art, games, sports, touring, funda-
mental adult education, vocational
training and home economics, theatre,
music, painting, expositions, folk song
and dance festivals, choruses, bands
and orchestras, handcrafts, athletics,
debates, conferences, courses in flower
gardening and rabbit breeding tell
only a small part of ENAL’s program.

 

1 ENAL, Via della Stelletta 23, Rome, Italy.
Further information on specific items may

be obtained by writing to this address.

 

2CRr‘fL—Circoli Ricreativi Assistenziale La-
voratori. '

The national oflice publishes two
monthly reviews, Ricreazione (Recre-
ation) and Tarismo Popolare (Popu-
lar Tourism), as Well as official bulle-
tins and notices. Each of the thirty-
three provincial and regional offices
publishes a review or paper at lcast
monthly.

Membership is open to all individ-
uals living on their work revenue, with-
out regard to religious or political
opinions. The purchaser of an ENAL
“services card” has no duty toward
the organization, but acquires the
right to join in all its activities and

 

make use of its facilities and privileges.
These last include a lowering of ticket
prices of thirty per cent for movies and
fifty per cent for theatres and Opera,
reduction on tickets to sporting events
and at sports facilities, discounts in
shOps where the ENAL card is hon-
ored, plus life and accident insurance
and eligibility for prizes and small
loans without interest.

Workers are not obligated to ac-
quire all of the privileges, but may
select those which they wish to ob-
tain. Members living in a village with-
out a theatre are not required to buy
the special stamp which allows reduced
rates at movies. Those who, because
of age or other reasons, do not travel,
are allowed to take a card without the
special stamp for tourism. The price
of the card correspondingly augments
the services which the associate is
going to secure. The current price of
the ENAL card is 270 lire (approxi-
mately forty-five cents) ; complete with
all services, including insurance, it
reaches a maximum of 385 lire (ap-
proximately sixty cents). To frequent
local club premises and take part in
club activities, the card purchaser must
sign as a member of a local club, for
which there is an additional fee of ap-
proximately fifty lire (eight cents). He
may join several clubs or associations
if he wishes.

Funds for ENAL are obtained

through membership fees and from in-
dividual contributions. It is h0ped that
a new law in the near future will pro-
vide an annual government grant to
the organization. It has a legal status
as a public foundation equal to state
administrations, and its performances
and activities are partly tax exempt.
Some of the directives given to pro-
vincial offices by the national organiza-
tion outline its purposes:

1. To give to recreation and diver-
sion that moral supervision necessary
to help the education of modern man.

2. To carry back to mere sociality
all post-working providences aiming to
improve morally, spiritually and physi-
cally the man who works.

3. To favor all associations in the
field of recreation for the most effi-
cient attainment for their aims, with-
out binding them to organizational or
administrative dependence.

72

4. To contribute to overcoming the
present struggle of the poor, acting for
their welfare and trying to check that
present spiritual bewilderment which
is taking away confidence and unity
from civil life and creating the unfor-
tunate human situation because of soli-
tude amidst others.

5. To answer the human rights, espe-
cially those relating to thc impartial
right to leisure and opportunity to rest,
and freely to participate in the cultural
life of the community, as declared in
the United Nations Declaration of Hu-
man Rights 3 (articles twenty-four and
twenty-seven) .

to understand ENAL’s

vast and comprehensive organizational

In order

structure, it is necessary to trace its
history briefly. Before Fascism, in
1922, recreation was well develOped in
Italy, although not highly organized
on a national scale. The trade unions,
industry, cooperatives and the church
were taking a larger part in providing
recreation for workers. The climate of
the country made the local square
Italy’s natural club room, and these
piazzas served as centers of sociability
and political activity. Folk arts were
prevalent———in festivals, carnivals, sing-
ing, dancing and costun1es———with the
marked regional distinctions so typical
of Italy.4

“Fascism could not leave all this
alone. It came both to serve and to ex-
ploit. The Duce said ‘We must go to-
wards the pe0ple!’ From this,
benefits would accrue to the regime:
people would love it for its gifts and

I'

be attached to it by its discipline.” "

The Royal Decree of May 25, 1925

founded the Opera Nazionale DOpO-
lavoro, with the object of “promoting
the healthy and advantageous employ-
ment of the free hours of the intellectu-
al and manual workers by institutions
directed to develop their physical, in-
tellectual and moral capacity, and to

aMalavasi, Gioechina, ENAL, Papular and
Social Recreation in Italy, Rome, 1948. Most

of the facts given in this article are based
upon this pamphlet. Additional material was

obtained personally from Dr. Maria Tabellini
of the Research Department of ENAL at
National Headquarters in Rome and from

personal visits to national, provincial and

local offices during the summer of 1950.
‘ Finer, Herman, M ussolini's Italy, New York,

Henry Holt and Company, 1935. p. 486.
aFiner. Op. Cit. p. 486.

 

Swimming pool at one of the local ENAL
clubs. An ENAL card costs approximately
forty-five cents at current prices; club
membership costs an additional eight cents.

provide for the increase and coordi-
nation of such institutions, furnishing
them and their members with all the
necessary assistance.” 3

“Originally set up under the Minis-
try of Education, the secretary of the
Fascist Party soon became the supreme
controller of DOpolavoro. Thc institu-
tion was managed from the center
through local officials appointed by the
government. Through the appointment
of these officials, subject to nomination
and recall by the Duce himself, the
Fascist Party was able to spread its
tentacles over nearly every form of
cultural, recreational and athletic ac-
tivity, so that it was very difficult for
anyone who had ambitions in any of
these fields not to fall under the sway
of party organization.” 7

“Under Italian Fascism, exploitation
of recreation as a pr0paganda tech-
nique was Openly deve10ped. The F as-
cist Party capitalized upon the Italians’
love of being entertained. The public
spectacle became Italy’s staple indus-
try, with an incessant round of assem-
blies, parades, marching and counter-
marching, all in uniform, with flags,
decorations, salutes, Speeches, songs,
chants and fireworks.” 8

“By seizing upon this modest pos-
session [leisure], those regimes man-
aged to change rest into meetings,
amusement into hypnotism, education
into pr0paganda and propaganda into

“Ibid. p. 487.
7 Ibid. p. 356.
“Ibid. p. 404-405.

RECREATION

drill . . . We have seen with our own
eyes what Hitler and Mussolini made
of the Dopolavoro—frenzied masses
caught up in noisy, ostentatious cele-
brations, in aggressive parades which
were bound to end in the bloody night-
mare of war.” 9

In the latter part of the Fascist re-
gime, Dopolavoro claimed between
four and five million members. There
is no doubt that without direct gov-
ernmental intervention, Fascist or
otherwise, recreation would not have
achieved the status or development it
now has in Italy. ENAL without Do-
polavoro would certainly not be the ex-
tensive, intricately-structured organiza—
tion of today .

At the failure of Fascism, the Dopo-
lavoro was not suppressed as were
other Fascist corporations. Instead, it
was transferred to the Presidency of
the Minister’s Council10 to continue its
work in the new political atmosphere
in Italy and in line with the new con-
stitution.

The defeat of Italy in World War II
put the entire ENAL organization to a
hard test. Movable equipment was dis-
persed or almost entirely wasted, in-
cluding the greater part of the sports
equipment, ninety traveling movie
buses, one thousand film projectors,
eight thousand radios, two hundred
trucks and trailer trucks, one hundred
twenty buses, twenty-five thousand
folding chairs and quantities of elec-
trical materials for the traveling thea-
tres and other facilities. Buildings
were destroyed or suffered requisition
or arbitrary use by occupational
forces.

The immediate postwar period was
very difficult in Italy. The deSperate
economic situation, the upset of social
life, the housing shortage, lack of food
and the problem of refugees caused the
organization’s change of name from
Dopolavoro to ENAL. Out of necessi-
ty, program was devoted to an attempt
to meet the emergency material needs

° Bodet, Jaime Torres, “Adult Education and
the Future of Our Civilization,” Adult Edu-

cation, Current Trends and Practices,

UNESCO, Paris, 1949. p. 9-10.

1° Presidensa del Consiglio dei Ministri—the
central administrative body. De Gaspcri is at

present president of this council.

MAY 1951

of workers, and its work took on a so-
cial welfare character. However, with
the passing of the immediate emergen-
cy, it soon became clear that, despite
the new name, the organization’s chief
function lay in the field of recreation.

With the political change from Fas-
cism to the new constitutional democ-
racy in Italy, ENAL had to adapt also
to the demands of political reconstruc-
tion. The centralized control and limi-
tations upon the activities of the organ-
ization in its various echelons were
abandoned, and the structure remade
to make ENAL a true service organi-
zation based entirely upon a volun-
tary principle. Clubs still may benefit
from all the advantages of belonging
to the larger organization, but have
been placed upon an autonomous basis,
responsible only to their members. The
national organization no longer inter-
feres in club activities, except to the
extent of encouraging and publicizing
program possibilities. The national of-
fices can, if requested, be useful in pro-
viding trained leadership, equipment
and legal protection.

ENAL also has brought into its
structure various national amateur as-
sociations, which elect committees to
work with the national organization.
To these associations are given the
problems of the development of inter-
est in particular activities—singing,
musical bands, orchestra, accordion
bands, chess, stamps, billiards, bowl-
ing, battledore, tug of war and so
forth. Among the most active of these
associations is the one on “popular
arts,” which promotes studies of folk-
lore and ethnography, and has the task
of coordinating all traditional Italian
popular activities.

At the moment, ENAL has rebuilt
nearly eighty per cent of its fortune
and has come into possession of almost
all of its buildings. Of the ninety-two
“carri di Tespit,” the well-known itin-
erant theatres which brought drama to
the rural areas and awakened so much

interest and admiration in Italy and
abroad, ENAL has succeeded in re-
building only eleven of them. Nowa-
days thcsc can be used only as fixed
theatres, not yet having the necessary
equipment for transportation.

Two major problems now face
ENAL: money and leadership. Thesc
sound familiar to all of us who work
in organizations, but in the United
States our problems are small com-
pared to those of the men and women
working in the recreation field in
Italy. In comparison with the U.S.A.,
the country is poor, the people are
poor, salaries are very low and the
new government has made little money
available for recreation. The ravages
of hunger and the physical destruction
of war are still evident everywhere.

The people are stunned by twenty-
three years of dictatorship, war, occu-
pation and defeat. Leadership is at a
low ebb. The middleclass, which pro-
vided the political base for Fascism,
and from which professional leader-
ship in recreation usually is drawn,
is politically disillusioned. Having
learned from bitter experience that no
matter what position of leadership one
takes it leads only to trouble, too few
are willing to accept leadership re-
sponsibilities.

Yet ENAL continues to offer its
great service to the working people. I
think of the citizens whom I have seen
as I have traveled about our own coun-
try—the miners in Pennsylvania, the
office workers in New York City, the
migratory laborers in Texas and Cali-
fornia, the hatters in Danbury, Con-
necticut, where I live, and Negroes
everywhere. I think of the third of our
nation, so much richer than Italy, who
are still “ill-clothed, ill-housed and ill-
fed.” I would like to think that some
day these Americans will have Open to
them rest homes, summer camps for
their children, travel Opportunities,
sports facilities and recreation centers
such as are available to Italy’s work-

ers through the services of ENAL.

CHANCE OF ADDRESS: Send your new address at least thirty days bc-
fore the date of the issue with which it is to takc effect. Address: Recreation
Magazine,‘Cireulation Department, 421 Fifth Avcnue South, Minneapolis
15, Minn. Send old address with the new, enclosing if possible your address

label. Thc post office will not forward copies unless you provide extra post-

age. Duplicate copies cannot be scnt.

 

I l

Pattern

for cooperative

community

Marion Preece

’- l ’HOUGH THE RECENT ruling of the National Produc-

tion Board curtails the building of recreation facili-
ties, public recreation departments continue to plan and
draw blueprints, anticipating the day when restrictions
will be lessened or lifted entirely.

The planning of facilities is one thing; financing the
building of them is another and cities are seeking ways
to reduce the mounting cost of providing adequately for
public recreation. Expenditures have been reduced in

some cities where boards or commissions responsible for'

public facilities have agreed that their buildings or
grounds or sections of them could be adapted to the use
of community recreation facilities without interfering
with their primary purpose.

It has long been the practice in Norfolk, Virginia, for
the Board of Education and the Public Housing Authori-
ty to grant the Department of Parks and Recreation the
use of buildings and grounds for its program. How the
Norfolk Park and Recreation Department contributes its
share to this c00perative arrangement will be explained
later. The city is carrying a ten-year multi-million dollar
capital improvement program. Included in it are schools,
libraries, low cost housing, parks and playgrounds.

A long range recreation plan made by W. C. Batche-
lor of Ohio State University in 1946 serves as a guide in
all considerations of recreation areas and buildings un-
der the jurisdiction of the park and recreation commis-
sion. The Batchelor Plan recommended that Norfolk con-
tinue its policy of joint use of public facilities on the
part of schools, housing authority and the park and rec-
reation department.

This policy of joint use has led, naturally, to joint
planning. The simplest way to explain how this type of
planning works in Norfolk is to describe the process as
it is now in Operation in one neighborhood of the Rob-
erts Park section. The cooperation began with the first

 

AUTHOR is a district representative on the staff of NRA.

74

planning

essential step——a study to determine the neighborhood’s
needs. This study was the basis of the present plan for the
neighborhood which fits into the master plan for the
physical development of the city.

The Norfolk Planning Commission, responsible for the
master plan, has the final voice in: (a) the general loca-
tion, character and extent of all streets, highways, lanes,
alleys, parks, parkways, playgrounds and recreation
facilities; (b) general locations, character, extent of all
public pr0perty, buildings and utilities and any change
of use, alteration or extension thereof, with special atten-
tion to schools and public welfare (hospitals, libraries
and so forth) buildings and areas; (c) the general loca-
tion, character and extent of slum clearance, housing and
neighborhood rehabilitation projects.

This rcport will include only those plans affecting pub-
lic recreation which arc incorporated into three of the
major deve10pn1ents of the neighborhood: the elementary
school, the housing project community building and the
playground-playfield.

When the location of the elementary school was de-
termined, the available land for grounds totaled only
seven acres. The Virginia State Office of Education has
established a minimum standard for elementary school
grounds of five acres plus one additional acre for every
one hundred pupils. As the pupil population of the
school will be seven hundred, a total of twelve acres is
necessary to meet the minimum standard. Five additional
acres are needed.

Adjacent to the school ground is the land purchased
for a low-rent housing project by the Norfolk Redevelop-
ment and Housing Authority. In section 207.1 in “Mini-
mum Standards and Criteria for Planning and Designing
PHA Sites of Low-Rent Housing,” it is stipulated that
“recreation areas for school-age children and adults must
be available conveniently near or within the project.
Space for such areas shall be provided on the site where
the following condition exists: where existing or planned

RECREATION

nearby rccrcation areas are reported by recreation offi-
cials to be inadequate.”

By using the table of minimum areas (square feet per
project) as determined by the number of dwelling units
in the project, the Norfolk Housing Authority was able
to grant the use of five acres of its land to the school—
thus bringing the area up to the minimum standard for
the school ground—and also for a playground and play-
field according to the National Recreation Association’s
minimum standards for play areas.

These twelve acres will be conditioned by the Norfolk
Department of Public Works. The park and recreation
department will landscape them, lay out the play areas,
furnish and install the play apparatus and provide equip-
ment and materials.

The cooperation of the park and recreation department
extends beyond the work it is doing on the play areas.
It is assisting with the entire plan of the areas of both
the school and the housing project. Not a tree is cut
down, a shrub moved or new ones planted before the
park department is consulted.

Though the functional plans of the school building and
the housing community building conform to the purpose
each is primarily to serve in the neighborhood, both
buildings are being planned so as to be easily adapted
to a wide variety of leisure-time activities for children
and adults under the leadership of the park and recrea-
tion department.

Joint planning resulted in mutual agreements to dis-
pcnse with some of the generally-accepted ideas as to
what one or the other building should incorporate into
its plan. One example of this was the decision reached
on the gymnasium and ,the auditorium.

The school, being an elementary one, could not, within
its appropriation, .build a regulation gymnasium with
showers and lockers; nor could the housing project build
it if it also had to provide for the numerous services it
is expected to give to the tenants of the project and other
families of the neighborhood.

No doubt, if the two departments had not worked to-
gether, the result would have been a medium-sized com-
bination auditorium-gymnasium in each building. Nei-
ther room would have been large enough for community
games nor too satisfactory as an auditorium. As the plan
has been developed, the school will build an auditorium
and the housing project will build the gymnasium, sub-
ject to final arrangements for necessary funds.

The auditorium will have a well-equipped stage ade-
quate for school and community use. Seats will be mova-
ble so that it also can serve as a multi-purpose room. It
will have separate heat controls and outside entrances
will be so constructed that the auditorium can be shut off
from the rest of the school when in use after school hours
for activities of the tenants of the project or any neigh-
borhood groups.

The school also will have a health room—which can
serve as a neighborhood clinic, a branch library, a cafe-
teria and kitchen which may be used for neighborhood
dinners or for cooking and canning demonstrations.

MAY 1951

Classrooms of the school are, in the main, self-con-
tained. The desks and seats are movable and the rooms
can be adapted to the use of children and adults after
hours for such activities as drama, music, art, discussion
and study groups, classes, clubs and quiet games. A large
special activities room equipped for manual arts, domes-
tic arts and crafts also will be available for use after
school hours.

The entire school building is planned in units, each
unit having ample storage space, separate heat control
and outside entrances. Any section can be cut off from
the remainder of the building and easily supervised when
in use by the park and recreation department for its
program.

The housing project, with such facilities as these avail-
able to its tenants, did not need to duplicate them and
was thus able to allow sufficient space in its community
building (which will be separate from the project admin-
istration building) for a gymnasium with lockers and
showers. During school hours, the school will have the
use of the gymnasium for its classes and games. After
school and evenings, the gymnasium will be under the
leadership of the park and recreation department staff.
In addition to this facility, the housing project was able
to provide a club room, kitchen, craftsroom and office
within the legal limits of its community building allot-
ment of space per number of dwelling units.

The park and recreation department will furnish the
recreation leadership for the playground, playfield, hous-
ing community building and school building.

The playground and playfield will offer year-round
leadership for children and for adults. During the sum-
mer months, leadership for the children will be supple-
mented by the services of specialists in arts, crafts and
music.

Leadership in the housing community building will be
year-round for children and adults; for recreation activi-
ties in the school building, it will be engaged for, and
paid on, a per session basis as the program of various
activities is promoted. Adequate, responsible supervision
of both buildings, while they are in use for recreation
activities under the park and recreation department, is
guaranteed.

Responsibility for maintenance of the facilities is as
follows: The park and recreation department will main-
tain the playground-playtield; the park and recreation
department and the housing authority will share in the
maintenance of the project community building; the park
and recrcation department will pay for the janitor serv-
ice in the school when that building is used for recrea-
tion activities under its leadership. All janitor service in
the school will be under the supervision of the custodian
of that building. Public utilities for the project communi-
ty recreation building will be paid for by the park and
recreation department.

Norfolk’s recreation facilities are not limited to those
of school or housing properties, nor is it intended that
future rccreation developments be limited to these prop-
erties. The park and recreation department has its own

75

playgrounds, athletic fields, fine parks and gardens, a
city auditorium and a stadium. It has four large com-
munity centers of its own and, in addition to these, it has
leased the recreation building of thc Navy Housing Proj-
ect and conducts a year-round program for 1,342 navy
families.

The backbone of a public recreation department is a
neighborhood program within reasonably easy reach of
every child and adult in the city. The equitable distribu-
tion of neighborhood facilities in Norfolk is assured by
the school board, the housing authority and the park and
recreation dcpartinent through its present policy of co-
operative planning. This kind of planning is not easy. It
is slow; sometimes it is trying. Boards, commissions and
housing authorities have convictions as to what their
obligations are in providing for their own departments
to the best of their ability and judgment. At times, con-
Hicting opinions arise as to what is best for a neighbor-

hood or the city and how the general welfare will be af-
fected by decisions on the scrvices of one department or
another.

That the departments involved in the plans for the
neighborhood in the Roberts Park section of Norfolk
were able to resolve their differences and, through thc
planning commission, to present a mutually-agreed-upon
plan for the final approval of the city manager and the
council, testifies to their integrity and sense of civic pride.
That Norfolk is succceding in a policy of coordinated
planning, not in one neighborhood alone, but throughout
the city, redounds to the credit of its people, its city
officials, community councils, commissions, boards, hous-
ing authority and the heads of departments who are mak-
ing it work. This univcrsal interest in the welfare of the
city and the thoughtful patient promotion of it are pro-
viding Norfolk with excellent facilities at a minimum of
cost to its taxpayers.

NATIONAL MUSIC WEEK

May 6 to 13, 1951

5E.
THE Maw 1951 ne observance of National Music
:12: . .

W“ Week Will be the presentation of a
piano to President Truman for use in
the White House. The instrument, fash-

abou, your ioned cooperatively by members of the
16 8d:  CI  P. M f a A . . .
m ho" in, eni@govt.de iano anu acturers ssociation, Will
3'8
near W“ at“ t “3,, com ifiai-Eioifzath 1°“ “m be given to the President by a group
1V3“ ' ing 9“ a 3 mus" . o
w. ggbm «33%,»! ,mlpma::d°‘£g?§ov re representing the National and Inter-
ins 1e to r 3' . . .
$816332?“ w a“ carver,in212$;IiiiiisegiomritiCon’ American Music Week Committee,
"En" w be men 0 ' me 331 . . .
You “remen “(Lesion “122% when , whose office is With the National Rec-
{irg‘fsuul «c211; 9,13th t “was 03nd “mid reation Association. Included in the
be c ' 5 of 531.103“ .
815° to me “116°” organ” rou Will be dele ates from the
WSera 26 tot 311 of the eloquent 05:
z: m . dc?

 

armed services and the veterans, in
recognition of the important part
music is playing in rehabilitation work

and in the defense effort.

RECREATION

 

VERY WISE philosopher, Mark

Twain, in summing up Tom

Saw er’s whitewashin adventure, has
Y g

;4

given us, quite unconsciously, a fine
definition of recreation:

“Work consists of whatever a body
is obliged to do. Play consists of what-
ever a body is not obliged to do.”

A close examination of the word
itself reveals the act of creating anew.
Many recreation leaders have looked
upon the word and have seen but one
channel through which pe0ple may bc
re-created—the physical.

Admittedly there are some human
beings who are never so gloriously
alive as when swinging a bat or a golf
club or performing feats of physical
skill. There are countless others, how-
ever, for whom this type of play or
recreation holds no charm or creative
power at all. Some come to life and
feel a tremendous surge of creative
power only when they hold a paint
brush or sing a song, make up a new
dance step or match wits with an-
other human being over a game of
chess or in a heated discussion on the
state of the union, listen to a story or
create a character in a play.

Recreation leaders have a job which
they hold in common with parents and
teachers—a job to release, to keep
alive, to channel, human energies: the
physical, the mental, the emotional,

AUTHOR is director of creative dra-
matics at University of Washington.

MAY 1951

Agnes Haaga

éteat‘éae @camat‘écct

IN THE RECREATION PROGRAM

Two ten-year-old yonngsters present
their interpretation of the whitewashing
scene from Mark Twain’s Tom Sawyer.

the social and the spiritual.

Recreation leaders can well afford
to ask themselves again and again:
“What does recreation mean to me?”
The question was asked by Harold
Lewis and Glenn Sanbery in an arti-
cle, “Recreation in Our Chu rch,”
which appeared in the November 1947
issue of the Highroad. Their answer
\vas:

1. It must be creative recreation,
not wreck-creation.

2. It must develop interest, attitudes
and appreciations than just
games, crafts, athletics and so on.

3. It must be cooperative, not com-
petitive.

4. It must develop personality, char-
acter, wider horizons.

5. It must develop self-expression
and emotional outlets.

6. It must give a feeling of security,

more

of belonging to a group.

7. It must break down barriers be-
tween individuals.

These objectives coincide amazingly
with the objectives of a creative ac-
tivity which is being explored and
utilized more and more by wide-awake
recreation leaders—creative dramatics.

In her book, Piaymaking with Chil-
dren,* Winifred Ward lists the objec-

tives of this informal type of drama
created by the players themselves:

1. To give each child an avenue for

*Published by Appleton Century. $2.50.

self-expression.

2. To guide his creative imagina-
tion.

3. To provide for a controlled emo-
tional outlet.

4. To help him in the building of
fine attitudes and appreciations.

5. To give him opportunities to
grow in social cooperation.

Although recreation leaders in the
past have recognized the value of
drama, many of them have dreaded
the prospect of being responsible for
this phase of a recreation program.
For them, as for most people, the
word “drama” has conjured up a men-
tal picture of a group of players per-
forming a formal play for an audience,
an audience that, to the not-too-experi-
enced-in-drama leader, assumes the
role of a group of critics.

Remove the audience and leader and
children usually enter wholeheartedly
into this informal type of drama with
its emphasis upon the, participant. The
“play’s the thing” becomes “the child’s
the thing.”

Others have neglected drama be-
cause they envision hours spent in the
preparation of material, hours which
they cannot afford in a crowded sched-
ule. Ruth Gonser Lease and Geraldine
Brain Siks in their book, Creative Dra-
matics in. Home, School and Commu-
nity, to be published this spring by
Harper and Brothers, show how “the
leader who is responsible for a multi-
tude of activities in the course of a

77

playground day can find ways of mo-
tivating drama sessions with the same
material used for story hours, music
and dance or even game sessions. In-
formal playmaking may be based upon
stories, experiences from everyday
life, a piece of music, a simple rhyme
or even a dramatic game like Farmer

in the Dell or Briar Rosebud.”

The authors of this newest book on
the subjeet point out still another bar-
rier that may eonfront the recreation
leader—“the psychological b a r r i e r
thrown up by the male sex, like the
boy who thinks of drama as ‘sissy
stuff,’ or the father who, when he dis-
covered his son was participating in
a creative dramatic group at a local
playground, remarked sarcastically,
‘So we’re going to have an actor in the
family!’

“Father and son can rest their fears,
for drama can be as red-blooded as a
baseball game, and it can be just as
exciting and as satisfying an outlet
for pent-up rebellious attitudes.

“It has proved to be, in many cases,
the answer to problems on a city play-
ground. In one city, a group of nine-,
ten- and eleven-year-old boys found
no more delightful way of satisfying
their spirit of adventure and gaining
a certain recognition in their neighbor-
hood than the one in which they were
indulging at more and more frequent
intervals: setting fire to the grass on
a hillside between their playground
and a railway track. The youngsters
were so cleverly sly about their pranks
that often they would set fire to the
hillside, disappear momentarily, only
to reappear onithe scene as good sa-
maritans to aid the firemen in putting
out the rapidly-spreading flames.

“The playground supervisor, as a
last resort, begged the drama leader
to do something with the boys as the
next fire episode would result in a
visit to the detention home. The leader
found the boys romping through the
wooded area between park and rail-
road tracks, playing a game of cops
and robbers. Joining their game, she
seized upon a quiet moment in their
play, as they sat around a make-be-
lieve campfire, to tell them some of
the red-blooded adventures of Robin
Hood. In no time at all, the area be-
came Sherwood Forest and the boys

78

were Robin Hood’s men in Lincoln
green.

“For the next few days, the adven-
tures of Robin Hood were meaty ma-
terial for their out-of-door playing.
The boys beeame so engrossed in the
active dramatization that they began
reading more stories of the English
‘outlaw’ on thcir own time. They fash-
ioncd elaborate bows and arrows, quiv-
ers and crude costumes. Long under-
wear was brought from homc to be
dyed Lincoln green during the crafts
hour. Pennants were made for the
shooting tournament in London, where

Robin Hood matched his skill with
Clifton of Buckingham and Gilbert
of the White Glove.

“So proud was the group of their in-
formal dramatization that they shared
it with the other playground children
at a Friday night family-fun program.
‘You’re good’ was the enthusiastic re-
sponse of the members of the informal
audience. Here was recognition much
more satisfying than setting fire to
the railroad tracks—recognition that
put an end to the fire episodes and
that motivated a continued interest in
drama adventures.”

During a story hour that followed
close upon a pet parade program, the
same leader found the five- and six-
year-olds so full of talk about the ani-
mals which had participated that she
used the topic as natural motivation
for a whole session based upon ani-
mals. With leading questions thrown
out by the leader, the group of young-
sters told about the animals they had
seen; in fact, not only told, but were
those animals, waddling like the family
of ducks which had won the blue rib-
bon for the largest family of pets,
meowing and prowling about like the
various kinds of cats who had been
very much in evidence at the show,
barking like dogs, talking about other
animals they had seen on trips to the
country, crawling, hopping, flying,
hissing, chattering, quacking, chirp-
ing—having a wonderful time talking
like animals, walking like animals, be-
ing animals.

Then the leader threw in a humor-
ous question—“What would you think
if you heard a dog meowing like a
cat or a bird mooing like a cow or a
boy baaing like a lamb?”

“Aw, they couldn’t.”
“They shouldn’t.”

“That would be funny.”
“I think I’d run.”

And thc leader, “Why?”

“Because a dog is supposed to bark,
a hird is supposed to sing.”

And from a very opinionated little
boy: “That’s the way God meant it
to be.”

“Well,” continued the leader, “I
know a story of a little duckling who
wandered out into the widc world . . .”

and so she started the story of Little
Duckling Tries His V0ice.* This little

   

The outdoor theatre for boys and girls of
Oakland, Calif., does not try to give pro-
fessional productions, but rather to give
children a creative, dramatic experience in
interpreting and watching children’s plays.
duckling tried to bark like a dog, mcow
like a cat, moo like a cow, sing like a
bird with the most disappointing but
humorous results. Wen finally he re-
turned homc, a sadder but wiser duck,
he saw his own mother waddling across
the barnyard going “quack, quack,
quack.” That sounded to him like the
most beautiful sound in the world. Hc
thought he’d talk like that and found
that he could say “quack, quack,
quack” very nicely.

“Would you like to play the story?”
asked the leader.

“Yes-s-s!” was the immediate re-
sponse.

“Where shall our barnyard be?”

The children voted for a place near
the bushes; the bushes could be the
barn.

“What other animals could be in thc
barnyard?”

“A goat, some sparrows, a rooster
who wakes everyone up in the morn-

*From Told Under the Magic Umbrella.

Macmillan Company, New York.

RECREATION

    
   

ing, some pigs eating out of a trough.”
All this from the youngsters who were
not only having an opportunity to ex-
press their own ideas, hut were ac-
tually adding more characters for the
large group of thirty children to play.

“And the dog, where is he?” in-
quired the leader.

“He’s in a dog house chewing on a
bonef’

“Is he all by himself?”

“No, he’s a she, and she has a dog
house full of puppies and they’re
asleep . . . ” (More roles for more
youngsters and something for the dogs
to do while awaiting the arrival of
the duckling.)

The cats became a whole family, too,
sunning themselves on a fence. The
hirds were individualized through sug-
gestions from the children. There was
a fussy old jay bird, a mother spar-
row bringing worms to a nest of young
birds, a wild canary singing away in
a tree. Some of the children thought
there should be trees to show that the
duckling really was walking through
the woods—so quickly a graceful wil-
low, a gnarled old oak and a sad-look-
ing cypress took root. lmmediately a
little girl suggested that she would like
to be the wind to come through the
woods and shake the trees. Finally
three children volunteered to be as
many cows quietly chewing their cud
in the pasture (another corner of the
story spot on the playground) and
the play was ready to begin.

Not one, but five, little ducklings—
including the leader—started off into
the wide world. (Multiplying such
characters gives the individual player
a feeling of security and the leader a
role of authority in which she may
now and then throw out a stimulating
question to stir still further the chil-
dren’s imagination and conversation.)

While the five- and six-year-olds are
having a joyous and meaningful time
with their impromptu playmaking, let’s
take a look at what the leader has
done.

She has wisely taken advantage of
a natural motivation provided by a
playground activity—the pet show—
as a leadup to her story, just as for-
merly she had taken advantage of the
natural interest of the fire-enthusiasts
and the adventuresome activity of cops

MAY 1951

and robbers to motivate the telling and
playing of Robin Hood.

True motivation for informal story
playing is that which lies within the
individual. The youngsters already
were full of talk about, and enthusiasm
for, animals. They needed very little
prompting to action. Her leading ques-
tions, “What would you think if you
heard a dog meowing like a cat?” and
so forth, brought the children close to
the theme of the story which Shake-
speare has eXpressed so heautifully in
Polonius’ advice to his son—“To thine
own self be true.”

She has chosen well her story ma-
terial, for Little Duckling Tries His
Voice is sure-fire material for play-
making. It has a worthwhile theme,
one that has terrific emotional appeal
for the young child who is trying to
find his role in this world and having
just as difficult a time of it as the
duckling. The story is peopled with
animal characters which the child
knows and likes, animals which may
be cut or multiplied to fit a group of
five or thirty-five. It has a straight
dramatic line of action that is easy to
follow--—simple enough for elabora-
tions. The repetition stimulates conver-
sation. The picture of the little duck
trying to go “bow-wow” like the dog
and succeeding only in going “back-
wack” appeals to the child’s sense of
humor and love of strange sounding
words; and the whole story leads up
to a definite climax and a very satis-
fying ending—the little duckling finds
his voice! Hi

When natural motivation is not in
the offering, the resourceful leader has
ways and means of motivating. A
leader working with a group of seven-
and eight-year-olds got them into a re-
ceptive and understanding mood for
Jack and the Beanstalk by passing
around a “magic” wishing bean. Each
child held the bean tightly in his hand
and expressed a true wish of his very
own. The adult accomplished two aims
in one with this approach. She got a
deeper insight into the hearts and
minds, the needs and desires of her
group and, at the same time, helped
them to identify themselves with Jack
who wished for “riches and good for-
tune” so that he and his mother would
“never again be poor or unhappy.”

The storyteller was careful to limit
the original three trips to the top of
the beanstalk to one journey—know-
ing that the one trip would be more
effective and satisfying when drama-
tized by the youngsters.

Under her skillful questioning, the
group discussed the characters, set the
“stage,” divided the play into three
scenes, volunteered for the various
roles and chose part of the group to
he a good “audience” so that the play-
ing could be evaluated and bettered
the second time. Scenes were played
and replayed to give each youngster
a chance to play the role of his choice
and to improve each playing through
positive criticism.

The same leader threw out for dis-
cussion to a group of nine-to-twelve~
year-olds the one word, “adventure.”
After an animated voicing of their own
concepts of adventure—to be pirates,
to explore underground c a v e s , to
hunt for treasure, to play hooky from
school and so forth—they were ready
and eager to dramatize these concepts
through the similar adventures of Tom
Sawyer and Huck Firm.

The skilled leader of creative dra-
matics knows and understands the in-
terests of children of all ages (for all
ages enjoy dramatics) and picks sto-
ries to satisfy these interests. At the
same time, she is meeting their emo-
tional needs and, through good litera-
ture, helping them to understand them-
selves and others. The boy who plays
Robin Hood or a knight of King
Arthur’s court is not only having a
wonderful outlet for his desire for ad-
venture, but is emulating admirable
standards of conduct which are bound
to carry over into everyday life.

Stories, as has been pointed out be-
fore, are not the only material suitable
for dramatization. 1 once saw a very
imaginative leader and group progress
from the playing of the game “Squir-
rel in the Tree” to the creation of a
story inspired by the same situation.
In this familiar game—in which the
children pair off to oin hands to form
trees for squirrels, with one extra
squirrel who doesn’t have a home, but
who does have an opportunity to se-
cure one when, on a signal, the
squirrels run out of their trees in
search of other trees—the children

79

did not limit themselves to being just
squirrels. Each tree had a difierent
type of animal-chipmunks, rabbits, a
fox who always seemed to get the
worst of it and was left out in the
cold. Through questions by the leader,
the children decided that the fox didn’t
have a home because he had been very
lazy and had not provided himself
with shelter. Then winter came, the
wind howled through the woods, the
snow fell. While all the animals were
snug in their trees, Mr. Fox was out
in the cold, his fur turned white by
the falling snowflakes. He decided to
confiscate the home of one of his for-
est friends. None, however, would let
him in.

He knocked on the door of each tree.
One little rabbit slammed the door
immediately. She thought him “a
dream walking.” Another thought him

a “polar bear” and advised him to “go

to Alaska.” When the old fox finally
chased Mr. and Mrs. Chipmunk from

FOLK CENTER

Central Michigan College of
Education

August 13-18

FEATURING AMERICAN
COUNTRY DANCING
AND FOLK SINGING

with College Stofi

Instruction in: Elementary and Advanced
Doncing: Group Singing; and Square
Dance Calling.

Miss Grace Ryan, author of "Dances of
Our Pioneers", will be the Director.

For information, write to the Director
of Field Services, Central
College of Education, Mt.
Michigan.

Michigan
Pleosont,

 

PRESENTS—

 

LAKE FAIRLEE CLUB

ELY, VERMONT

On Beautiful Lake Fairlee

Two complete sessions:

WEEK OF JUNE 18TH-
under direction of ED DURLACHER

WEEK OF JUNE 25TH—

their snug hollow, all the animals
came to the chipmunks’ rescue by hold-
ing tight to each other’s tails and
forming a long dragon to scare the fox
from the home he had so rudely in-
vaded. All this from a group of five-
and six-year-old children.

It is quite evident that any program
is just as good as its leaders. This is
particularly true of creative activities
which appear so simple on the sur-
face that many, seeing one demonstra-
tion of creative dramatics in action,
feel themselves quite ready to lead a
group. This assumption is not only
false but dangerous. Many rush in
boldly only to find themselves and
their group beset with prohlems for
which they know no answers. Many,
after a few false starts, finally give
up and drop the activity.

One well-meaning director of recre-
ation created havoc in a group by in-
terpreting creative dramatics as a
“chance to be as silly as you like.” The
result was a group of noisy youngsters
doing whatever they liked—being silly,
burlesquing characters and doing a
lot of surface work that meant nothing
to themselves or to others.

The answer to the problem, and to
the success of any creative activity, lies
in the provision of well-trained leaders.
The answer lies in providing such
training in the curriculum of recrea-
tion leaders right in college. At the
University of Washington in Seattle,
creative dramatics is a required sub-
ject for recreation majors, as well as
for elementary education majors. Stu-
dents so trained are not only equipped
to choose, motivate, present and guide
material for informal dramatization,
but, from the very beginning, are

 

under direction of AL BRUNDAGE

ED DURLACHER

Al. BRU N DAGE

A simplified. progressive course for recreational leaders in calling and
teaching squares, cantras, circle mixers and folk dances.

Featuring the basic and advanced

Vocation.

"knaw-how”—plus a Dancing

Far falderIr reservalians, write—J. W. BEASLEY, Manager
Address until June 1—346 Summit Avenue, Mount Vernon, N. Y.

80

aware of the fact that the activity has
a definite place in the well-planned, all-
around recreation program.

A department in a community where
this training is not available might
pick a “natural” leader from its staff
or from the locality and arrange for
him to receive training at a qualified
school. Northwestern University, as
well as the University of Washington.
offers courses the whole year around.
This leader could, in turn, train other
recreation workers through a series of
workshops. Another possibility is the
setting up of a workshOp with a quali-
fled leader brought in from the out-
side. At the present time, Winifred
Ward, who recently retired as director
of children’s theatre and creative dra-
matics at Northwestern, has been do-
ing such workshops in cities through-
out the country. This summer she will
conduct one at San Jose State Teach-
ers’ College in California.

The resourceful leader will find that
children respond with enthusiasm to
this type of drama, wonderfully adapt-
able to the playground where attend-
ance is regular as well as to the
playground which, because of location
or circumstances, has a more transient
summer attendance. In the latter in-
stance, informal playmaking is by far
the ideal type of drama for, with
youngsters playing first one role and
then another, creating fresh dialogue
and action with each playing, the
whole play activity does not collapse
because of the absence of a few
members.

Actually, the possibilities of cre-
ativc dramatics in the recreation pro-
gram are limited only by the skill and
understanding of the leader.

Public Wants More Facilities

The American Institute of Public
Opinion recently put this question to
a nationwide sample of thc pOpulation:

“Do you think the public parks and
playgrounds in this community are
good enough or not?”

The total vote was:
Yes, 42% No, 50% Don’t know, 8%

The South, New England and Mid-
dle Atlantic states showed the least
favorable ratio, while the East and
West Central sections expressed more

satisfaction with the park and play-
ground situation.

RECREATION

 

Beth Wallace Yates

THEMES for your Senior Prom

ABOUT THIS TIME, every spring, comes the most excit-

ing night of the year—the night of the Junior-
Senior banquet and prom. This is the time when the
Juniors put forth their best efforts to entertain the Seniors
——for the pride of the Junior class is at stake. Besides,
it won’t be very long before these same hard-working
Juniors will be dignified Seniors and expecting the lower
classmeu to carry on the tradition by entertaining them
just as royally.

Since it is such a special occasion and, normally only
comes once in a lifetime, every class strives to have the
best party in the history of the school. The social com-
mittee and the faculty advisors meet to decide upon a
theme. Once this is chosen, class members contribute
ideas until the entire program is developed. All plans are
kept secret from the Seniors.

Themes for banquets and proms come from a number
of sources. The name of a current play or movie, with
sectional or historical interest, can easily be developed
into the “Banquet of the Year.” Song titles also are very
popular as themes; teen-agers are familiar with them
and many of them suggest decorations as well as pro-
gram.

1. Old Black Magic, for instance, lends itself to this
use. The entrance to the banquet room is through a huge

black hat. Table decorations include black hats to hold
flowers and white cotton rabbits. Only candlelight is

Author is superintendent of recreation, Sylacauga, Ala.

MAY 1951

used during the meal. Horosc0pes are placed at each
person’s place.

The toastmaster looks into his crystal ball when an-
nouncing the program, which may include a dance by
a student to the tune of Old Black Magic and possibly
someone to sing it. The toastmaster, or someone dressed
as a fortune teller, also looks into the crystal ball to
predict the future of the Seniors.

2. Stardust is another good theme. All decorations are
in blue and silver. A huge star, covered with silver foil,
is hung at the entrance. The guests break through the
foil and step through the star in order to enter. Sus-
pended from wires stretched across the room, at least
ten feet above the floor, are stars cut from cardboard
and sprayed with ,silver paint. A strip of blue crepe paper
or foil, twelve inches wide, is placed down the center of
the tables and blue candles in silver holders add the final
touch.

The space behind the orchestra is covered with dark
blue crepe paper, covered with silver stars. Glitter added
to these stars makes them particularly attractive.

Some other possibilities among song titles are Night
and Day, Rhapsody in Blue, Deep Purple, Summertime,
and Easter Parade.

3. May Day. To carry out this theme, the banquet room
is decorated garden-fashion. Small umbrella tables are
used instead of the long banquet seating arrangement.
The flowers upon each table are in small baskets, and the
nut cups also are designed as small baskets. A large May-

81

pole is in the center of the room and the traditional May-
pole dance may be included as part of the program.
Pastel-colored strips of paper, with a flowcr attached to
the end of each, are hung overhead, suspended from
wires. Upon every strip is one letter and the strips are
hung so that they spell out thc seniors’ names as:

._—|
g //
M v
i:
,_r—

 .. ' / W/
'5 H1
‘i/ 17/"   4"
P l ' '

/ 1; arm/tan “W’s/WV ”

 

' \ 
‘5 I 1’0 6 ID i U \
$3“ an .~ \\  gig“

Popular favors for this event are nosegays and bouton-
nieres. The serving girls are dressed as gardeners, com-
plete-with big sun hats. Music selections during the pro-
gram may include Trees, My Wild Irish Rose, and other
“flower” songs.

4. Gay Nineties. Large drawings upon the walls depict
scenes of the Gay Nineties. The tables are decorated
with dolls dressed as ladies of that era and with Flowers
arranged in big hats. The favors are moustache cups or
mugs for the boys and fans for the girls. All the serving
girls are dressed as Floradora girls.

A barbershop quartet, dressed in Gay Nineties fashion,
even to hair parted in the middle, is a feature of the pro-
gram, rendering A Bicycle Built for Two and Sweet Ade-
line. The Floradora girls also entertain with songs and

dances. .
5. Gold Rush. The banquet room is made to look like a

town in the gold rush days by placing tents, made from
blankets, on the floor near the walls and using lanterns
and campfires—the crepe paper flashlight variety—for
light. At least one papier-mache horse and covered wagon
adds much to the atmosphere. Picks and shovels are used
as decorations and wagon whcels are hung upon the
walls. Flowers can be entwined in the wheels if more
color is needed. Table flowers are placed in small cov-
ered wagons made from cardboard. “Gold” coins from
the dime store are pasted upon each place card, and
mugs of pretzels are set upon the tables. The favors are
small jugs with the names of their owners upon them,
bronze horses, small spinning wheels, “gold” nuggets and
lucky coins. The serving girls are dressed as dance hall
queens.

A “bar” is placed at the entrance to the banquet room
and the first course (tomato juice cocktail) is served by
costumed bartenders who wear handlebar moustaches,
striped shirts, white aprons and so on.

The program includes songs which were popular dur-
ing the gold rush days, Indian dances, a can-can dance

and talks.
82

6. Operation Future. All decorations are ultra modcrn-
istic and give the imprcssion of what the world may be
likc one hundred years from now. Wrapping paper is
placed around the wall of the entire banquet room upon
which are painted thc outlines of buildings as they may
look in 2051. This border of buildings represents the sky-
line. Large silver balloons, flying saucers and rocket ships
are suspcnded from wires in the ceiling, with spotlights
focused upon them.

A colored balloon, inflated with gas, is ticd to the
back of cach chair with a string about two feet in length.
Fingernail polish is used to paint the name of each guest
on these balloons, thus having them serve as place cards
as well as dccorations. Serving girls wear tight black and
silver suits topped by black caps with silvcr antennae
on them.

The toastmaster’s control board is a complicatcd set
of knobs and buttons which has been mounted on a large
piece of plywood or cardboard. As he announces each
program, he turns a knob and, by remote control, the
entertainment is presented.

7. Gypsy Pattern. A large campfire is constructed in
the middle of the banquet room and the tables are ar-
ranged, in wheel-like formation, with spokes radiating
from the campfire hub. Wagon wheels, with bright flow-
ers entwined in them are placed upon the wall. Party fav-
ors include golden earrings for the girls, bright ban-
dannas for the boys. The serving girls are dressed as

gypsies.

The entertaincrs are seated around the campfire, wait-
ing for their cues to give violin solos, vocal numbers and
accordion solos of gypsy music. A gypsy fortune teller
walks among the guests during dinner and tells their
fortunes. Other gypsies dance around the campfire to the
rhythm of exciting gypsy melodies.

8. Rainbow Banquet. This banquet was held in a gym-
nasium-auditorium where the basketball goals always
were a problem. In this instance, the backboards of the
goals were covered with cardboard upon which rainbows
had been painted. Another large rainbow, with a pot of
“gold” under it, was constructed upon the stage. Various
colored balloons were used as table decorations. Group
singing was a part of the program and all songs suggested
colors of the rainbow—She Wore a Y ellow Ribbon,

When the Blue of the Night Meets the Gold of the Day,
Orange-coiored Sky and others.

9. South American Cruise. The guests enter the door
to the banquet room by walking up a gangplank. Life-
saver mints are at each place. Deck chairs, life preserv-
ers and ladders are used as decorations. At each port,
the guests arc entertained by South American songs,
dances, music or stunts.

10. Old Mexico. The walls are decorated with serapes,
large Mexican hats and pomonas (strings of pepper pods
and gourds which have been painted in bright colors).
Flowers for the table include cactus plants, and serving
girls wear bright, full skirts and white peasant blouses.
The program consists of Mexican music and dances.

RECREATION

THE NEED
for

BECBEATION:

“71131; is it?

h
THREE-YEAR STUDY OF COMMUNITY-

PROVIDED SERVICES PRODUCES INTER-

ESTING SPECULATIONS.

Marion Robinson

HE NEED FOR recreation springs

from deep drives and impulses in
human nature. It is a common human
need and a personal one, and we put
a good deal of value on our freedom
of choice in the ways we meet it.
Though life in an urban industrial
civilization has put a crimp into some
of the recreational opportunities we
enjoyed in the less complex agricul-
tural era, it has, on the other hand, of-
fered us new and different Opportuni-
ties. The equation between what we
can provide for ourselves and what we
must jointly provide through commu-
nity-supported programs has varied a
great deal in the past several decades.
Balancing the equation has offered a
challenge to community planners and

recreation specialists in every commu-
nity in America.

AUTHOR is former associate editor of
The Survey Midnlonthly, and is now

a free lance writer and editor specializ-
ing in the health and welfare field.

MAY 1951

     

j

("l-“t

& A

Some speculation about Specific fac-
tors in this equation takes part of the
Spotlight in a three-year study and
analysis of the total range of commu-
nity-provided services in one Ameri-
can community, which was completed
late in 1950. Underwritten by the
Grant Foundation and conducted by
Community Research Associates, In-
corporated, under the direction of
Bradley Buell, the project began in St.
Paul, Minnesota, where a careful tabu-
lation and analysis was made of the
services rendered to the community’s
families during the month of Novem-
ber 1948. Because the focus of the
study was upon the interrelations of all
community-provided services, it in-
cluded data on all services in four
great areas of need—health, social ad-
justment, dependency and recreation.
With the cooperation of 108 public
and private agencies in St. Paul, un-
duplicated figures were obtained on
the number of families known to each
of the agencies during that month.

. ' ' pair
 illil.

,r__.

.—.—-.—_..._.

  
       

 
 
 
   
   
 
 

    
  

   
  
   
     
   

 
   
    

If is: 1
J" ' .
1‘ I

I i

‘I

  
     
 

t It
I lrl

 lo?)
I
54‘ - 

'70:.

--=§" -.
1
i
13
_ 'l 1
--=, ‘ V :.

Cross tabulations showed the extent to
which families were being served si-
multaneously by different kinds of
agencies and, ultimately, a picture
emerged—a picture of the nature and
extent of needs in these four areas of
service; a picture of sprawling and
often unrelated services being brought
to bear on these needs; a tiny segment
of the national picture of our commu-
nity-provided services which now cost
us annually an aggregate of about
thirteen billion dollars.

Planning for community-wide recre-
ation which will supplement what peo-
ple can provide for themselves is a
complicated business. Thanks to care-
ful work done in the first half of this
century, planning for the necessary
space and facilities for such commu-
nity assets as playgrounds, parks, ten-
nis courts and golf courses has been
fairly well standardized. Indeed, it is
a surprise to the layman to learn that
there are available to community plan-
ners well-tested formulae on these mat-

83

ters in relation to a given population
and its natural resources.

But when one comes to the “How
much?,” “What kind?” and “For
whom?” questions about recreation
activities, the guesswork has to be
wheeled into action. These answers,
say the experts, are going to be harder
to get at, and inquiry into them will
take one seemingly far afield. But, ac-
cording to the authors of a book
which grew out of the St. Paul project
and which is to be published this fall,
work recorded in this field by recrea-
tion specialists in the next decade will
prove to be rewarding to American
communities.

Many competent recreation special-
ists could have predicted pretty closely
what the St. Paul figures would show
about how many and who participated
in what kinds of recreation during the
tabulated month. The services of four-
teen private agencies and two public
agencies, it was found, were reaching
into eighteen per cent of the communi-
ty’s families even in a month when

recreation activities were, admittedly;

not at the highest peak. Studies of
other communities have put this figure
at from ten to twenty per cent. Com-
pared with the other services studied,
it was revealed that recreation services
reached‘ more families than the others,
since health services reached fifteen
per cent of the community’s families;
social adjustment services, ten per
cent; and dependency services, seven
per cent.

Eighty-seven per cent of the recre-
ation participants were under the age
of twenty. The rate of participation
according to “preference” of type of
activity was highest for sports and
games, and dwindled down successive-
ly through three other categories: so-
cial occasions; the cultural arts, music,
drama and the dance; and informal
education. These figures represent
trends which, according to the Na-
tional Recreation Association Year
Book, are fairly typical of trends in
other communities.

Incidentally, recreation specialists
who have themselves wrestled with the
problems of classifying the myriad of
activities for study purposes will be in-
terested in the work done in that area
in connection with this study. These

84

consultants finally boiled the list down
to the four categories mentioned
above, on the theory that each met a
basic component of the need for rec-
reation as it has so far been analyzed
by the psychologists and sociologists.
Thus, sports and games meet the need
for “release of physical energy and as-
sociated emotional drives”; social oc-
casions, the need for “human associa-
tion”; the cultural arts, the need for
“satisfaction of the eye, ear and neuro-
muscular system”; and informal edu-
cation, the need for “recognition, re-
sponse, understanding, contribution
to one’s own thinking and formula-
tion of one’s own judgment.”

The really interesting questions
arose from closer study of participa-
tion by age group and the geographi-
cal spread of opportunity in relation
to known and supposed needs of vari-
ous age groups in the p0pulation, the
correlation between families served by
recreation agencies and those served
by community-supported programs in
other areas of need. In the minds of
those who spent months analyzing the
figures, comparing them with figures
from other studies, looking at them in
the light of the history and literature
of the recreation movement, discussing
them with expert consultants and for-
mulating the findings, all roads seemed
to lead back to the question, “What is
need?”

It goes without saying that, in the
absence of established norms, need
must be judged on the basis of partici-
pation and that participation is limited
by opportunity. As was pointed out by
George D. Butler of the National Rec-
reation Association, following a con-
ference of experts held to discuss the
findings of the study in 1949, the dis-
parity of services between sections in
the community appeared to represent
disparity of opportunity. This seemed
to be borne out by the figures on rate
of participation in these agencies per
one thousand population. The aggre-
gate figures for the four most disad-
vantaged areas of the city were low
compared with other sections. In spite
of this, however, one of these disad-
vantaged areas rated first on the list
of participation per unit population,
and it was this area which boasted of
260 acres of park and playground

space per one thousand pOpulation——
a little better than called for by NRA

standards.

Experience up to the present seems
to point to the fact that, as one sociolo-
gist attending the 194-9 conference put
it, community-provided recrcation is
most greatly needed “at the two great
crises of life—~adolescence and old
age.” Thcre seems to be agreement
among the experts that lower income
groups should be added to this pri-
ority list, for the obvious reason that
their capacity to provide recreation for
themselves is more limited.

These authors assumed that what
shows up in the way of rate of parti-
cipation does gives indication of need.
At the same time, they were con-
cerned with taking a “total community
look” at services
Thus they lifted these assumptions into
a comprehensive framework, as a base
for further speculation. They reasoned
that an outstanding characteristic of
recreation need is that different peo-
ple need different kinds at different
times, and that the widest variable of
these differences was to be found in
the different stages of the life cycle.
That is to say, that needs of people for
self-expression through the various ac-
tivities offered by the community-pro-
vided recreation program change
greatly at different stages of life, that
age affects the degree of preoccupation
activities, the

in all four areas.

with family-centered
amount of money available to purchase
recreation and the kinds of social and
other groups with which it is possible
to affiliate.

If one constructs a rough chart of
the various age groups in relation to
what is knotvn or presumed about the
characteristic needs of each, one comes
out with something like this: the pre-
school age child looks upon the homc
and family as a natural center for
play. The school age child is beginning
to make a transition from the shelter
and protection of the family to broader
contacts. This continues and increases
in adolescence. Young adults are be-
ginning to be ahsorbed with careers,
homes and families, and this becomes
progressively absorbing until middle
age. A volume of current literature
points to the fact that later middle age
and old age find people increasingly

RECREATION

needing recreational and creative ac-
tivity outside their own personal re-
sources.

The St. Paul figures on participation
by age group—some of which are
probably typical of American com-
1nunities and some perhaps fairly
atypical were interesting when ap-
plied to such a rough chart. About
two per cent of those being served by
recreation agencies were from two to
five years of age. Sixty-two per cent
of the registrants in all sixteen agen-
cies were in the age group from six to
thirteen. Twenty per cent were adoles-
cents and five per cent were young
adults. Less than one-half of one per
cent of the adult p0pulation were par-
ticipating and they accounted for
about eight per cent of the registrants.
A tiny segment, less than two-tenths of
one per cent of the registrants, were
over fifty-nine years of age.

 

 

Although the figures on participa-
tion of the elderly group would vary
greatly among our communities in this
time of experimentation with such pro-
grams, and would certainly be much
higher in cities where these programs
have become a major interest, it was
obvious that the rate of participation
reflected little of what we presume to
be the need. Spurred on by this, the
authors proposed that the same might
be true, to some degree, of other age
groups.

Do we assume that a drop in partici—
pation rate for adulthood means that
this part of the p0pulation does not
need much recreation opportunity out-
side their own homes and social asso-
ciations? Looking at studies from
other cities, where the rate of partici-
pation for adolescents reaches as much
as fifty per cent of that segment of the
population, and keeping in mind what

MAY 1951

we know about the broadening inter-
ests and personal needs of this group,
do we assume that “the other fifty” or
sixty per cent, or whatever the case
may be, does not need recreational
opportunities? Such speculations led
these authors to conclude that the most
important thing revealed by these fig-
ures or those from any other communi-
ty is that we really do not know the
extent of need, nor have we yet any
reliable device for learning what it
may be.

Another interesting angle on the ex-
tent of need for recreation came out
in an examination of the correlation
between the families served by recrea-
tion agencies and those served by
agencies in the other three areas of
need. One of the most startling gener-
al findings of this study of communi-
ty services was that a group of 6,500
families, six per cent of all the families
in the community and fifteen per cent
of the families being served by all
agencies in the four service areas, was
suffering from such a compounding of
physical and social ills that they were
absorbing nearly half of all the serv-
ices, exclusive of recreation, given by
the agencies participating in the study.
For quick refercnce, these were ear-
marked the “multiple-problem fami-
lies.” But, only three per cent of this
group of families were known to any
of the sixteen recreation agencies! And
this, in turn, was a surprise to the
folks who analyzed the data. For what
did it have to say about the need for
recreation? Does this mean, they asked
themselves, that families without prob-
lems of income, health and social ad—
justment do need recreation, but that
families on relief, suffering from
health ailments, or disturbed by prob-
lems of anti-social behavior, for in-
stance, do not?

Going at it from another angle, they
found that only eight per cent of the
families being served by recreation
agencies were known at all to any of
the other agencies in connection with
health, family or personal problems.
It was true that this percentage varied
among agencies. For example, twenty
per cent of the registered participants
of neighborhood centers were known
to health, dependency or social adjust-
ment agencies. But taking a total com-

munity view of services in relation to
apparent needs, it was seen that fifteen
per cent of the families had health
problems, ten per cent had problems
of social adjustment, including anti-
social behavior, and seven per cent
had problems of economic insufficien-
cy; yet only eight per cent of all these
apparently needed their community’s
recreation services.

Total expenditures through taxes
and contributions for our nation’s
community-provided services, as we
have said, are now nearing the thir-
teen-billion-dollar mark. The cost of
recreation, through our tax-supported
and voluntary systems accounts for
about five hundred million dollars of
that amount. These authors pr0pose
that the time is coming when much
more precise figuring of known needs
will be required in planning for com-
munity-wide services of all kinds. An-
other important requirement in the
years ahead will be for more integrated
planning, so that allocation of respon-
sibility and division of labor can be
laid out to fit a pattern of total com-
munity needs.

In St. Paul, the provision of large
scale facilities for public use was, as
in most communities, an almost en-
tirely public rcsponsibility. Organiza-
tion of activity interest was shared on
a fifty-seven to forty-three per cent
basis by public and private agencies
respectively. Eighty-nine per cent of
all members of “friendship groups”—
the term used in this study to indicate
those groups where the primary basis
for organization was for personal as-
sociation and activities that grew out
of mutual interests—were being served
by private agencies. These group mem-
bers accounted for seventy-one per
cent of all private agency participants.

Here, as in many other communities,
there is a rough division of labor,
chiefly based upon facilities and per-
sonnel of different skills. There is not
space here to go into the speculations
which these authors bring to bear on
the well-recognized need for coordinat-
ed planning. They do suggest that a
more precise division of labor, based
upon a well-established equation be-
tween needs and resources, would lead
to better distribution of, and more ef-
ficient, service. One of the great prob-

85

lems involved in this kind of planning
for a smoothly-operating total commu-
nity recreation plan, they feel, is the
fact that voluntary agencies, while able
to make an invaluable qualitative con-
tribution through skilled group leader-
ship, generally provide recreation as
a means toward a particular agency
objective rather than as a contribution
to a total community plan.

Among the family of community
services, recreation is the “newest-
comer.” Nonetheless, it shares with
other community services perplexing
problems of personnel shortages and
the struggle for a financial place in the
sun. Similar to the other services, it
has been preoccupied with a period of

promotion and expansion of programs
and improvement of quality of servicc.
But the next decade will probably see
the necessity for making, along with
its sister services, a sober analysis of
total community need and a c00pera-
tivc shaping of proccdures, structures,
division of labor and planning to mcet
this need.

It is the bunch of thcse authors—a
hunch which has led to a substantial
and thought-provoking discussion in
their report on this study— that one
of the keys to significant development
in recreation service in that decade lies
in research, which will help to measure
need, and in experimentation with pro-
cedures designed to balance the provi-

sion of com:nunity-supportcd activi-
ties against presumed or known nced
among segments of the population.

The great vitality of our Amcrican
communities is a mutual conccrn for,
and support of, well-being among
community people. Wc want to learn
how to put to bcttcr usc what wc al-
ready know about both needs and
scrvice, and to lcarn more about what
we don’t know. lt is this kind of vigor-
ous, creative approach to our concerns
that has built a vast network of com-
munity services in the thrce hundred
years of our history. And it is this
kind of approach which will make
those services more meaningful in thc
time to comc.

Storytelling
For the Not-So-Young

Anne Majette Grant

STORYTELLING is fun, but never more fun than when
shared with those who have lived long enough really to
appreciate humor, loyalty, fantasy and friendship. I
have told stories—all kinds of stories to all kinds of
folks—but nowhere have 1 found greater joy in the tell—
ing or finer appreciation in the listening than 1 have
found this year in some of the homes for aged people in
New York City.

In planning my storytelling program for children in
some of the recreation centers and hospitals, I asked my
director, Mr. Willard Kauth, if I might use part of my
time for older people if there seemed to be a place for
this. With his enthusiastic approval I called on the rec-
reation directors in some of the homes for the aged,
among them the Home for Aged and Infirm Hebrews, 121
West 105th Street, and the Association for Relief of Re-
spectable Aged Indigent Females, 891 Amsterdam Ave‘
nue, where I was heartily welcomed. We planned story
hours as evening programs once each month.

At the Hebrew home, there were about one hundred
twenty-five men and women in the attractive, small audi-
torium that first night, wondering, as was 1, what to ex-
pect. I stood on the stage in order that all might see
me without effort, and I used a microphone ust in case
some of the ears might not be so keen as they once had
been. As their eager faces looked up at me, I knew from
the very beginning that we would have a good time shar-
ing the stories which I had selected—~a true love story,
a story of a plucky boy and his grandmother and the age-
old story of the friendship between Damon and Pythias.
When the program was over—about forty minutes later—

ANNE MAJETTE GRANT was formerly specialist in story-
tellng for the Westchester County Recreation Commis-
sion; is now member of staf}r of Boys’ Athletic League.

86

 

Story hour at a home in New York City inspires rapt attention.

I visited with the group and one old gentleman said, “It
was good to hear that Damon and Pythias story again.
That’s Schiller’s story, you know, and I heard it first as
a boy in Germany.”

During the fall I had weekly story hours for boys and
girls at Mariner’s Temple, Chatham Square. One after-
noon, early in December, Reverend Joseph B. Palmer. thc
minister and director, came to our story hour. Then he
asked me if I would come down on Christmas Eve and
tell stories for his club of one hundred old men at their
Christmas party. It seemed a wonderful way to spend
part of one’s Christmas Eve, so I dressed in my gayest
party dress and traveled to the Bowery. We sang Christ-
mas songs, told Christmas stories, had coffee and cakc
together—and an experience I’ll remember always!

In addition to one evening program a month, we arc
now beginning a weekly afternoon meeting for smaller
groups where there is group participation in storytelling.
Here we hope to draw out some of the stories which these
older people heard as youngsters in many dificrent parts
of the world, proving to all of us that human nature as
revcaled in folklore is much the same the world over.
We may find some new stories, who knows! And, better
still, we may give the joy of participation and creation
to some who had thought that their creative days were
over forevcr. '

RECREATION

About

oston

ongress

T. E. Rivers

First steps for the thirty-third National Recreation
Congress were taken some months ago with the selection
of the time and place—October 1-5, Boston. The Congress
Committee has been busy, and will be even busier, work-
ing out general plans and putting them into final shape
for this event. But busy as the committee will be in the
months ahead, probably it will find time for an occasional
check upon the status of the Boston Red Sox, for once
again the host city is slated to be a strong contender for
professional baseball honors.

The committee starts this year with an unusually long
list of suggestions which have been received from dele-
gates to last year’s Congress in Cleveland. In addition to
sending scores of postcards, a great many delegates also
took time to write thoughtful letters. The Congress is
truly a cooperative undertaking, and the committee is
most appreciative of this help. As a matter of fact, it is
still not too late to send more ideas since plans for the
Congress have not yet been completed.

The defense emergency situation, which has affected so
many peeple in all parts of the country, will receive care-
ful consideration as the program is developed. Final
plans largely will depend upon the national and world
situation as of that date but, at present, definite plans
have been made for a general session and special section
meetings on several aspects of the recreation problems
involved.

In its general planning, the committee again is for-
tunate in having the assistance of special committees. A
national advisory committee has been formed; the com-
mittee for planning the executive sessions on the open-
ing day is practically complete; and committees for the
rural, hospital and industrial phases of the program are
being formed. Through the spring and summer, sugges-
tions will be coming in from the National Advisory Com-
mittee on Defense-Related Services of the National Rec-
reation Association.

This year’s Congress Advisory Committee consists of
the following members: The Reverend Maurice D. Bone,
Associate Director, Department of Young People’s Work
of the Board of Christian Education of the Presbyterian
Church in the United States of America, Philadelphia;
Dr. Paul F. Douglass, president of the American Uni-
versity, Washington; Mrs. Permelia M. Dunn, special as—
sistant in charge of cultural activities, Department of

THOMAS RIVERS, member of the NRA headquarters staff,
is the secretary of the National Recreation Congress.

MAY 1951

Recreation, New Orleans; Gerald B. Fitzgerald, Director
of Recreation Training, University of Minnesota, Minne-
apolis; Lew F. Galbraith, president of the Board of Play-
ground Directors, Oakland, California; Alvin G. Kenney,
director of the Community Recreation Service of Boston,
Incorporated; Thomas W. Lantz, Superintendent of Pub-
lic Recreation, Tacoma, Washington; Mrs. Carolyn Lyle,
National Recreation Consultant, Service in Military Hos-
pitals, the American National Red Cross, Washington;
Stephen H. Mahoney, Superintendent of Recreation, Cam-
bridge, Massachusetts; Peter J. Mayers, Superintendent
of Recreation, New Rochelle, New York; John Pearson,
executive officer of the Parks and Recreation Association
of Canada, Brantford, Ontario; Mrs. Lola Robinson, ex-
ecutive director of the West Side Community Center, As-
bury Park, New Jersey; Mrs. Gertrude Skow Sanford,
extension specialist in recreation, Ames, Iowa; Earl
Schreiber, director of recreation of the Timken Roller
Bearing Company, Canton, Ohio; James S. Stevens, Jr.,
acting director of the North Carolina Recreation Com-
mission, Raleigh; Alfred P. Strozdas, Superintendent of
Recreation, Oak Ridge, Tennessee; Major Alfred G. Vi-
tacco, chief of the Recreation Section, Army Recreation-
al Service Branch, Washington, D. C.; and Mrs. Eva
Whiting White, president of the Women’s Educational
and Industrial Union, Boston.

The Executives’ Planning Committee is headed by H.
S. Callowhill, Superintendent of Recreation, Baltimore,
and includes: Ralph E. Buerke, Peoria, Illinois; Herb A.
Davis, Cincinnati; Ben Evans, Seattle; Myron N. Hen-
drick, Niagara Falls; George Hjelte, Los Angeles; N. L.
Mallison, Jacksonville; F. S. Mathewson, Union County,
New Jersey; Mrs. Verna Rensvold, Kansas City, Mis-
souri; J. A. Reynolds, Richmond; James S. Stevens,
Greenwich, Connecticut; Jay M. Ver Lee, Colorado
Springs; Charlie Vettiner, Jefferson County, Kentucky;
and W. P. Witt, Corpus Christi.

As program plans become more definite, announce-
ments will be made. The “Congress Preliminary Pam-
phlet” will be mailed shortly and additional copies will
be available upon request. All who are planning to attend
the Congress are urged to make their hotel reservations
early. Headquarters will be the Hotel Statler. Other hotels
within a convenient distance of the Statler are: Hotel
Avery, Hotel Bradford, Hotel Brunswick, C0pley Plaza
Hotel, Copley Square Hotel, Hotel Fensgate, Hotel
Gardner, Hotel Lenox, Hotel Pieroni, Hotel Pioneer
(YWCA), Hotel Touraine, Huntington Avenue YMCA.

87

    
 
 
 
  

Are you staying home because
you feel that it’s too expensive
to go away? Maybe you haven’t
discovered the vacation advan-
tages of state parks. This article
tells about them.

711E HARRINGTON children want-
ed a vacation trip. But Mr. Har-
rington shook his head. They’d go on
picnics or beach parties or to the zoo
while Dad had his two weeks off.
“Couldn’t we possibly afford a
trip?” asked their mother. But Mr.
Harrington still shook his head.
“You know the cost of a trip, even if
we go in our old car and stop at mo-
tels. We’ve the new furnace to buy this

fall, and no telling how long the car
will hold out.”
Then the Friday before his vacation,

Mr. Harrington came home in high ex-

 
 

88

 

Thousand-year-old ruins of the prehistoric
pueblos located at the Chaco Canyon

National Monument, New Mexico.

)4 7ach  ON A BUDGET

citement. “We’rc going to have our
trip, kids,” he shouted, “and it’s go-
ing to cost us next to nothing.”

A fellow at the plant, Jim Sullivan,
had told him about a place. Sullivan’s
family went every year.

Where? Why, to one of the state
parks. You could stay all summer, if
you wished. It didn’t cost a cent. You
brought a tent or trailer in which to
sleep and dress and ate outdoors. The
Sullivans would lend their tent to the
Harringtons.

“But how about food and cooking?”
asked Mrs. Harrington.

There was a store with moderate
prices in the park. And you could get
ice, too. Yes, they would need a small,
portable ice box.

“How can I cook in a tent? I’m no
Girl Scout,” weakly protested Mrs.
Harrington above the children’s ques-
tions.

Regina Z. Kelly

“That’s where the twenty cents
comes in,” triumphed her husband.
“That’s the fee for an electric outlet
for each camp site. We’ll take along a
couple of hot plates. Me, I’m going to
cook outdoors on one of the grills.
How about bacon and eggs in the early
morning, cooked over a wood fire,
kids?”

There was a general building with
flush toilets and lavatories, Mr. Har-
rington wcnt on to explain. Some parks
even had showers and washing Ina-
chines. “Our state park has a swell
beach with a couple of lifeguards.
Come on, we’ve got to start packing.
We want to leave hcre by five o’clock
tomorrow morning. It’s ‘first come,
first served’ at the park whcn it comes

to camping sites.”

Reprinted t h r o n g h the courtesy of
PARENTS’ MAGAZINE.

RECREATION

There are state parks such as the one
the Harringtons chose for a vacation
in every part of the country, but there
are millions of people who have never
heard about them. So far there are no
gencral statistics on travel in the Uni-
ted States.

Thc value of travel, its contribution
to the education and recreational wel-
fare of people, is considered important
by our government. It is for this rea-
son that now nearly all of the forty-
eight states are furnishing extremely
attractive travel publications to attract
visitors to their localities.

Not all of the state parks have the
facilities or are as inexpensive as the
one the Harringtons selected. But what-
ever fees are asked, they are nominal.
The entrance fee never exceeds fifty
cents for a car and a group of five peo-
plc or less. Tent or trailer sites, if not

 

The Temple of the Sun, Big Room, Carls-
bad Caverns National Park, New Mexico.

free, cost from twenty-five to seventy-
five cents a day, paid to the park area
supervisor when r e g i s t e r i n g and
charged as long as the tent is up, oc-
cupied or not.

For those who desire less rugged ac-
commodations, most state parks have
lodges or housekeeping cabins which
are attractive, well-equipped and rea-
sonable. In Virginia, for instance, cab-
ins housing from two to six persons
rent for ten dollars a week per person.
They have indoor toilets, showers, elec-
tric stoves, water heatcrs and open fire-

Tourists enjoy deluxe cabins on north rim
of Grand Canyon National Park, Arizona.

MAY 1951

places. They are equipped with linens,
dishes and kitchen utensils.

There is a limit, however, on occu-
pancy of the cabins. Generally, they
are rented for one or two weeks only,
and reservations with a five-dollar de-
posit, later applied to the rent, must
be made well in advance. Accommoda-
tions for one or two days are not dif-
ficult to secure, especially if the visit
is in midweek.

A few states, such as Vermont, pro-
vide lean-to’s as shelters for seventy-
five cents or a dollar a day. These are
equipped with an outdoor fireplace
having plenty of cut firewood, a table,
benches and movable shelves. A lean-
to will accommodate up to five per-
sons. Campers must supply their linens
and dishes, but the areas have piped
spring water and toilet buildings. All
the parks give special reduced rates to
youth groups.

Every type of recreation is provided
in the parks, depending upon the lo-
cale. Some of them are open all year
round, and there is swimming, boat-
ing, horseback riding, square dancing,
winter sports and so on. Sports are
supervised by staffs of experts. There
are provisions for hunting and fishing
in well-stocked woods and streams,
with easily obtained and moderately
priced licenses, determined by the state
game laws. Horses are available for
one dollar or one dollar fifty cents a
day. Boats rent for about twenty-five

 

cents a day.

The New England states have provi‘
sions for winter vacations featuring
winter sports. Mount Mansfield, one
of the Vermont state parks, is one of
the outstanding ski regions of the Uni-
ted States, with one hundred miles of
ski trails and the longest and highest
aerial chair lifts in the country. Warm-
ing shelters are provided for all skiers,
but the ski dormitories are for the use
of teen-agers only. Rates are reason-
able throughout New England state
park resorts. In Maine, the use of the
ski tow is one dollar a day and a to-
boggan chute rents for twenty-five
cents per person per day. ,

Should one dcsire a more rugged
type of vacation than that offered in
the state parks, it can be found in the
national forests. There are 160 of these
in thirty-six of the states, though most
of them are in the West. They cover
176 million acres of land. The nation-
al forests are under the supervision of
the Forest Service of the United States
Department of Agriculture.

Entrance is frce to all of the na-
tional forests, though moderate fees
are charged for special services. The
sign of the national forest is a pinc
tree in the center of a shield. The‘ pass-
ing motorist may not recognize the
national forest except for these signs.
While many of the camping sites are
near the main highways, others can
bc reached only by traveling the lesser

 

Acadian House, Longfellow Evangeline
State Park in St. Martinsville, Louisiana.

known roads. There are 84-1 resorts
in the national forests operated by
private concessionaires where lodgings
are adequate and clean, though some-
times rugged. Most visitors bring their
own bedding, tents, cooking utensils
and food, for often stores are miles
away from the camping site.

For those who desire a real “rough-
ing it” outing, there are “wilderness
areas” in seventy of the national for-
ests. These are accessible only by trail
or water. The American Forestry As-
sociation sponsors all-expense “trail-
riding” trips lasting from ten to fifteen

 

days and costing from one hundrcd
and twenty-five to one hundred and
s m a l 1
groups. however, travel independently.
Horses rent for onc dollar to one dollar
fifty cents per day, and guides who

scventy-fivc dollars.

Many

are cooks, packcrs and horse wranglers

 

A favorite pastime—watching the bears in
Cbieot State Park, Ville Platte, Louisiana.

can be procured for about six dollars
a day. Inexperienced persons are cau-

tioned against going through the wil-
derness arcas without a guide. The
Forest Service wryly comments that
ninc thousand man days a year are
spent searching for lost persons or
rescuing those who are injurcd.

Thc regulations regarding the con-
duct of visitors are similar in most
parks. No intoxicating beverages can
be sold. There must bc care in regard
to fires. Picking of wild flowers or
mutilation of trees or shrubs is for-
biddcn. Cats or dogs must be on leash.
Unbccoming or rough language is not
tolerated. Merchandise and commodi-
ties must be sold at standard prices.
The forests, it must always be remem-
bered, are vacation areas for family
groups.

A penny postal card requesting in-
formation about the state parks and
recreation areas of the individual
states in which you are interested will
be answered promptly with an abun-
dance of maps, colorful pamphlets
and specific data regarding prices,
types of recreation and accommoda-
tions offered in each park, if addressed
to the travel information offices main-
tained by the various states.

Recreation and Park Year Book

Municipal and county recreation
and park authorities throughout the
United States have cooperated in the
preparation of the Recreation and Park
Year Book for 1950. More than 1,880
reports already have been received
from local and county agencies and
many other authorities are expected to
send their reports to the National Rec-
reation Association in time to include
them in the publication.

Like its predecessors, tbc Year Book
will record community recreation lead-
ersbip, facilities, centers, activities and
expenditures. For the first time, it also
will contain detailed information con-
cerning municipal and county park
acreage, management and expendi-
tures. Never before has comprehensive
information on tbc combined park and
recreation service of local and county
agencies been recorded for the coun-
try as a whole.

The Year Book figures will afford a
basis for dctermining the growth in

90

and county parks since
1940, when the last previous nation-

municipal

wide study was conducted by the Na-
tional Park Service and the NRA. They
will not only indicate the number and
acreage of parks and other permanent-
ly-dedicated recreation areas, but also
the total expenditures for parks and
recreation in 1950. Figures will be
available to indicate the number of
recreation facilities of thirty-six types
that are being provided by park and
recreation agencies for the benefit of
the public. As in preceding issues,
the number of
women cniploycd as recreation leaders

however, men and
on a full~time, year-round basis or on
a part-time basis, and the amount paid
for their services, will he separately
recorded.

The and Park Year

Book will enable park and recreation

Recreation

officials and city-managing authorities
to compare provisions in their city
with acreage providcd in citics of com-

parable size, with other cities’ expendi-
tures for parks and recreation and
with the number and types of facilities,
as well as the leadership, they are pro-
viding for their recreation programs.
College and university authorities will
find the Year Book particularly use-
ful because it indicates the extent to
which men and women are being em-
ployed for rccreation leadership in the
various parts of the country. Since the
statistical data will be compiled by
states, comparisons between states also
can be made.

Park and recreation departments,
city executives, municipal reference
librarics, colleges, universities and vol-
untary agcncies concerned with com-
munity recreation cannot afford not to
have available for reference a c0py of
this significant volume. Wben pub-
lished this summer, the Year Book will
be available from tbc National Recre-
ation Association at two dollars per

copy.

RECREATION

SUGGESTIONS

Willard C. Sutherlan c

for Recreation
Training Programs
in Colleges and

EVERAL YEARS prior to World War
II, the National Recreation Asso-
ciation, in response to many requests,
prepared a statement and a suggested
curriculum as a guide for those inter-
ested in setting up recreation training
programs in colleges and universities.
The association, in preparing this bul-
letin, drew upon its earlier experience
in deve10ping training materials, work~
ing with committees, conducting short
courses and participating in the grad-
uate training program of the National
Recreation School. Also, leading edu-
cators and recreation authorities were
consulted.

Much has happened, in recent years,
in the way of new publications and re;
ports of various regional and national
training conferences. The College Rec-
reation Association has been organ-
ized, and training committees ‘of the
American Recreation Society and state
associations are giving special atten-
tion to this important problem. In-
creasing attendance at the college
training sessions during the National
Recreation Congresses is further evi-
dence of the growing interest. New

 

MR. SUTHERLAND is in charge of Rec-
reation Personnel Service of the NRA.

M AY 1951

Universities

materials have been developed, and
programs in colleges have broadened
and increased to meet the demands of
a rapidly-growing profession. The
purpose of this statement is to help
point out the magnitude of the prob-
lem and to identify a few items which
are considered important by those who
have been doing serious thinking on
the subject. It is assumed that those
organizing new curriculums, or revis»
ing old ones, will consult additional
material and discuss their plans with
individuals who are eXperienced in
the matter of recreation and curric-
ulum development.

Range of Recreation Functions

The amount and variety of respon-
sihility that recreation workers carry,
and the many types of positions in-
volved, make it imperative that the
planning and conducting of recreation
training be in the hands of experi-
enced and well-qualified personnel.
Certainly no recreation curriculum
should be organized and carried on
without a careful study of the respon-
sibilities, duties, functions and condi-
tions which make up the various po-
Likewise, careful attention

must be given. to thc skill, the knowl-

sitions.

edge and other worker characteristics
necessary for their performance.
Positions have been analyzed and per-
sonnel standards in recreation leader-
ship have been develOped over a
number of years. Adequate informa-
tion is available regarding most po-
sitions and should be secured and
utilized by those responsible for the
training of recreation leaders.

Some positions call for skill in indi-
vidual activities and proficiency in
leadership with clubs and small neigh-
borhood groups in games, hobbies, so-
cial recreation and the fine arts.
Others require ability to promote and
organize over-all, well-balanced pro-
grams and city-wide events, and to
train and supervise large numbers of
volunteer and paid workers. Those in
top administrative positions have to
deal not only with their recreation
boards and commissions, but fre-
quently with other public and private
authorities—such as civic associations,
local, county and state schools, park,
planning and legislative bodies. The
day of the million-dollar recreation
budget arrived years ago for some of
the larger departments. Consequently,
some executives are trustees of very

large sums of money and administra-

‘5
I

91

g

't
1
I
— -.._.. — _-— __..—-—.—..—.—.—_..._—...._.—_....._...._.__.____..._..._._ h.— _____. __ _ _ _._ ..___ _.__.___.___.._...____._.._..__ .__.__ _..._..____._._..__.— ___....._- a..-“ -._.._.

_..._._.-—._.—

tors of vast properties and facilities,
including playgrounds,
centers, athletic fields, golf courses,
pools, bathing beaches, parks and rec-
reation buildings. They must be well-
versed in such matters as community
organization, research, s u r v e y s , fi-
nance and administration as it per-
tains to recreation. Special skill in pub-
lie and human relations is essential,
and many must be well-informed with
reference to the layout, design and con-

 

struetion of facilities. Program devel-
opment and service to pe0ple, based
upon democratic principles, acceptable
recreation objectives and philosophy,

should be the concern of all recreation
workers.

Opportunities for Recreation Service

Recreation workers operate in many
types of settings and may find oppor-
tunities for service in such areas as
municipal, park and school recreation,
industrial recreation, recreation in hos-
pitals and institutions, youth-serving
agencies, outdoor education and camp-
ing, recreation among rural people,
churches, settlements and a variety of
local, county, state and national agen-
cies. The field has many facets, and
we again would emphasize the im-
portance of studying and analyzing the
types of positions, their functions and
requirements as a basis for building
the recreation curriculum. Although
there are many types of positions, the
demand is more limited in some areas
of specialization and in certain sec-
tions of the country than in others.
Consequently, the question of demand
should receive careful consideration.
Institutions which ignore this question
may jeopardize their position in the
training field and do great harm to a
new and important movement. A large
surplus of workers will tend to drive
professional standards downward, just
at a time when the public is beginning
to recognize and appreciate high stand-

92

community

ards of leadership. The universities,
to a large degree, will determine
whether or not we are to have a great
recreation movement by the calibre of
students which they admit into their
training programs. They are selecting
and training the future leaders who are
to give guidance in the wise use of
leisure to children, youth and adults
in an industrialized world. The re-
sponsibility is not a small one. Selec-
tion is the key to the problem and the
accent always must be upon quality
rather than upon quantity.

Training Opportunities

The number of colleges and univer-
sities reporting major recreation cur-
riculums has increased rapidly since
World War II. A report issued by the
association, in 1940, recorded only
five schools offering a recreation
major. A later study, the report of
which was published in 1948, indi-
cated that the number had increased
to thirty-five. Several others have re-
ported since that time, and the total
number at present may be fifty or
more. Many of these report work lead-
ing to graduate degrees, with concen-
tration upon recreation. Other schools
have indicated that a major in reere-
ation is under consideration. The as-
sociation intends to keep in touch with
these training centers and their names
will be made available upon request.

Fortunately, the schools offering
major work in recreation at the pres‘
ent time are fairly well distributed

geographically. They are to be found
in the East, Middle West, South and
Far West.

Some schools are specializing in spe-
cific areas of recreation such as in-
dustrial recreation, outdoor education
and camping, rural recreation, reerea-
tion in hospitals and institutions,
municipal recreation and parks. This
specialization is most noticeable at the
graduate level.

In some, the recreation curriculum
operates under the administration of
already-existing departments. Others
have formed campus committees which
tend to relate all departments, coordi-
nate the training and eliminate dupli-
cation. Regardless of the administra-
tive authority, it is important that the

following principles“ be observed:

l. The total resources of the univer-

sity should be mobilized and utilized
as far as possible.

2. The general tone and attitude of
the institution should be conducive to
good recreation training.

3. At least one member of the fac-
ulty, with a background of broad ad-
ministrative experience in rccreation,
should give full time to the recreation
curriculum. Other experienced and
qualified recreation instructors should
be added in accordance with good edu-
cational standards and practices.

4. The recreation curriculum should
be separate from other major pro-
grams.

It should maintain its own

identity and the recreation courses

should be so labeled and described.

5. The curriculum should be geared
to the demand for workers and to the
types of positions available.

6. During the Junior and Senior
years, field work should be planned
carefully and supervised by faculty
and agency personnel. This should be
in addition to any earlier experience,
regardless of its amount or value.

7. Adequate facilities and resources
should be provided to meet the needs
of the entire student body as well as
those of students registered for the
recreation curriculum. These should
include facilities for indoor and out-
door games, sports and athletic pro-
grams, rooms for arts and crafts,
music, drama and social activities.
There should be access to community
facilities and programs, to camps and
state and national parks. A recreation
library and convenient and acceptable
reading rooms should be provided.

8. There should be a careful selec-
tion of students, with consideration
given to past school activities, prom-
ise for growth, attitudes, personality
and leadership traits appr0priate to
the nature and function of recreation.

9. Well-planned guidance and coun-
seling services should be available,
and special efforts should he made to

* Many of these principles were discussed
and developed at the National Conferences
on Undergraduate and Graduate Training
held at Jackson’s Mill, West Virginia, in
1948 and at the Pere Marquette State Park,
Illinois, in 1950.

RECREATION

place students in permanent positions
after graduation.

10. Continuous evaluation of the cur-
riculum is recommended. Follow-up of
graduates on the job, as an aid to
their successful adjustment and as a
means of keeping in touch with new
(leveIOpments and trends in the field,
is highly desirable.

Curriculum

It would be inconsistent with Amer-
ican tradition, and an encroachment
upon the autonomy of individual in-
stitutions, to suggest a standardized
pattern. Flexibility and a creative ap-
proach to training should be main-
tained, and it is especially encouraging
for the movement that opinions differ
as to the specific courses which should
be included in a curriculum for the
preparation of recreation leaders. 0n
the other hand, there is general agree-
ment that a broad program of train-
ing, based upon the areas of study
suggested, would prepare individuals
reasonably well for recreation leader-
ship.

Also, there is general agreement
that most full-time, year-round posi-
tions require at least four years of
college with a major in recreation. Ex-
ecutive and supervisory positions re-
quire a broad, cultural undergraduate
background supplemented by one or
more years of specialized graduate
study following or preceding experi-
ence.

General Education

1. Social Sci ences—The recreation
worker must have an understanding of
the society of which he is a part and
be acquainted with its history and
the record of man’s deve10pment as a
social being. Because social relation-
ships and community organization
have such a direct bearing upon the
work of the recreation leader, courses
in history and sociology merit an im»
portant place in his training.

2. Literature—Every r e c r e a t i o n
worker should be familiar with, and
have an appreciation of, the best in
literature. R e a d i n g is perhaps the
most universal form of recreation, and
experience of the personal satisfaction
resulting from acquaintance with the
best in literature is of great impor-
ta n c e. Furthermore, a recreation

MAY 1951

worker needs to deve10p the ability to
speak and write effectively.

3. Education—In many of its as-
pects, recreation is closely related to
education, and the recreation leader
at times functions in the role of
teacher. He must, therefore, be famil-
iar with educational methods and pro-
cedures and with the nature of human
motivation in order to work effectively
with individuals and groups. He must
understand not only the child and his
various stages of growth, but the na-
ture and interests of young pe0ple and
adults.

4. Cultural Arts—“The history of the
development of the arts and the study

of their significance in civilization can
make a great contribution to the stu-
dent’s preparation for recreation serv-
ice. Drama, music, dancing, arts and
crafts play an increasingly important
part in recreation programs.

5. Scicnces—A knowledge of the
world in which we live and of man's
environment and physical nature is of
primary importance. Snbjects such
as biology, physiology, geology, bot-
any and astronomy not only have a
general value, but also contribute to
a knowledge of recreation activities in
the field of natural science.

6. Other Recreation Activities—Ath-
letic games and sports, quiet games,
social activities, informal discussions
and forms of outdoor recreation—such
as camping, nature study and aquatics
—-——play a major role in recreation pro-
grams. Workers must have experience
and leadership training in a variety of
these activities and must develop con-
siderable skill in at least two of them.

7. Recreation: Its Nature and Sig-
nificance —— The recreation w o r k e r
must be familiar with the nature and
functions of recreation and its sig-
nificance as a governmental function
and a phase of individual and com-
munity living. He requires a knowl-
edge of the place of leisure in the
world today and of the relationship
of recreation and leisure. A course
which provides an introduction to the
field of community recreation is most
desirable.

Undergraduate Specialization

The content s h o u l d be consistent
with the objectives of general educa-

tion, with suflicient specialization fol-
lowing the first two years to meet the
requirements for recreation leadership.
The following suggestions are con-
fined, for the most part, to the Spe-
cialization in recreation. The hours
and course credit value should be de-
termined by the individual institution.

The qualified recreation instructor
will know how to deve10p well-bal-
anced courses from the suggested sub-
ject areas below. He will find that
golden mean between the practical,
the technical and the phi1050phical
because he will be working from fun-
damentals, principles and objectives
which characterize and distinguish
recreation as a profession. His ap-
proach will vary from that of the
trainer of preachers, teachers, busi-
ness and other social, civic and pro-
fessional leaders.

It is suggested that approximately
forty per cent of the total credits re-
quired for a bachelor’s degree be in
specific recreation c o u r s e s . These
would include such suggestive t0pics as

.Nature and Function of Play; Leisure

in the Modern World; Theory and Phi-
losophy of Play and Recreation; In-

troduction to Community Recreation;
Conduct of Community Centers; Con-
duct of Playgrounds; P la n n in g
Recreation P r o g r a m s ; Playground
Management and Supervision; Club
Organization Leadership; Leadership
Methods and Problems; Outdoor Edu-
cation and C a m p i n g ; Community
Organization; Arrangement of Appa-
ratus; Court and Field Game Areas;

 

leadership and organization in var-
ious program areas such as commu-
nity music, drama, arts and crafts,
nature, sports and athletics, social rec-
reation and games. Students should
have an appreciation and understand-
ing of all the program areas, with
considerable activity skill from a lead-

93

ership point of view in at least two
of them.

Graduate Specialization

In general, it would seem desirable
that out of a total of thirty semester
hours required for a master’s degree
in recreation at least fifteen hours
be selected from such suggested sub-
jects as the following: Administration
and Organization of Community Rec-
reation; Legal and Financial Aspects
of Recreation; Layout and Design of
Park and Recreation Facilities; Prob-
lems of Construction and Mainte-
nance; Recreation Trends and Devel-
0pnIent; Recreation Studies, Surveys
and Appraisals; Organization and
Administration of R e c r e a t i o n for
Rural Areas; Park Administration;
Conservation of Natural Resources;
Organization and Administration of
Camping; City Planning for Recrea-
. tion; Operation of Special Recreation
Facilities; Principles and Methods of
Supervision; Research Methods; Rec-
reation Seminars; Industrial Recrea-

tion; Recreation in Hospitals and.

Institutions; Recreation in Private and

Youth-Serving Agencies; Principlcs of
Group Work; Community and Inter-
agency Relationships; Community Or-
ganization for Recreation. A number
of the recreation subjects in the under-
graduate curriculum might well rcceive
more detailed and advanced considera-
tion. In fact, several of them could be
combined into a single course.

Students’ previous training and ex-
perience will vary and their individual
needs should be taken into considera-
tion. These suggestions are not neces-
sarily complete, and those preparing
for specific areas of service—such as
camping, hospital and industrial rec-
reation—would need to draw on addi-
tional subjects appr0priate to such
specialized fields.

In addition to courses designed to
prepare students for professional recre-
ation service, colleges and universities
are in an unique position to contrib-
ute, in other ways, to the solution of
problems involved in the recreation

use of leisure time. They can offer-

courses in recreation activities which
are available for the entire student
body. Courses providing participation

and leadership training in crafts, so-
cial recreation, drama, music and
other recreation activities help stu-
dents to acquire rccreation interests
and skills that afford leisure-time en-
joyment and satisfaction while they are
in college, as well as in later life. Such
courses help prepare students for ef-
fective service as volunteer leaders in
their communities. Also, many extra-
curricular activities contribute to this
end.

Colleges can give their students a
better understanding of the signifi-
cance of leisure in the modern world
and the important place that recrea-
tion plays in the life of the individual
community. Courses in contemporary
civilization, social problems and local
government, among others, afford nor-
mal opportunities for stressing the
significance of recreation. The under-
standing gained in s uch courses
enables students, in later years, to rec-
ognize recreation needs in their com-
munities, to evaluate plans and to give
intelligent support to reasonable de-
mands for all types of community rec-
reation services.

 

 

The sweep of green—clad hills and the
waters of Lake Fairlee, looking out from
the veranda of the main lodge of the
Vermont club.

ANEW AND INTERESTING COURSE in
square dance calling and teach-
ing, which might be termed “a dancing
vacation,” is being introduced during
two weeks in June at the Lake Fairlee
Club in Vermont—a summer lodge,
with cottages for families. Here square
dance enthusiasts will gather not only
to enjoy but to learn, in an ideal, syl-
van setting, under the leadership of Ed

Durlacher and Al Brundage.
94

.7616 We go

Square Dancing

’The course differs from the usual in
that it has been planned for teachers,
recreation directors, group workcrs and
other leaders interested in the tech-
niques of teaching and organization of
square dance groups, “mike” tech-
niques, suggested dances for handi-
capped‘ groups and so on. Material is
planned for the beginner, as well as for
the more experienced leader. Some
evenings will be taken up with parties
organized and directed by the students
or with visits to local square dances.

Vermont country peOple were much
on their own before the days of phono-

graphs, movies and radio, and the oc-
casion of getting together for a “barn
raising” or “corn husking” usually led
to a dance—-so the local country danc-
ing presents an interesting history and

is rich in variety. In the last few years,
interest in the dance has revived in
Vermont and students are discovering
there much material of the past and
present.

Mrs. Theresa Brundgardt, Vermont
Director of Recreation, is pleased that
the experiment of the new square danc-
ing course is being conducted in the
Green Mountain State bringing, as it
does, stimulation and direction to the
square dance movement, to the benefit
of native Vermonters.

A second, complete course, will be
given over Labor Day week end, start-
ing on September first. Further infor-
mation may be obtained from the
manager of the club—J. W. Beasley—
at 346 Summit Avenue, Mt. Vernon,
New York.

RECREATION

THE ABOVE was one of the head-

lines in the local press when Al-
exandria, Virginia, paid tribute to
Joseph Lee for the first time last°year.
We combined activities in honor of

Joseph Lee with the commemoration
of a local sponsor of recreation, Mrs.

T. Clifton Howard, who died this year.

Mrs. Howard, who had dedicated her
life to the betterment of city condi-

tions, had done much to get under-
privileged children off the streets and
onto the well-supervised playgrounds
of Alexandria.

The program, held in the Municipal
Stadium, combined a rodeo and pet
show and featured the United States
Army Band. This outstanding one hun-
dred piece band, of international repu-
tation, played at intervals throughout
the program and provided an oppor-
tunity for Alexandrians to enjoy this
group in home territory.

MAY 1951

City Pays Honor to
Founders of Play

     

In our planning of events, begun
early in May, we used material from
the National Recreation Association
as well as ideas from its Playground
Summer N o t e b o o k . Invitations to
speakers and the United States Army
Band were sent out first to determine
who could come. Letters were mailed
to all the ministers of the city asking
their cooperation by using recreation
as a sermon topic or by announcing
the event in their bulletins. These re-
ceived a very good response.

Mayor Franklin Backus supported
the project through a neWSpaper an-
nouncement and s t o r y. Invitations
were extended to civic clubs and many
attended. The Alexandria Kiwanis
Club, sponsor of our annual pet show
and bicycle rodeo, agreed that this
was the time to make it a bigger event
——and so it was! Dogs, cats, owls,
hamsters appeared from nowhere. The

Joseph Lee, who was responsible for open-
ing the first playground in Boston, in 1900.

hicycle rodeo ran smoothly, with thirty
representatives from the thirteen play-
grounds vying for first place.

The Junior Chamber of Commerce

discussed Joseph Lee Week on July
22 on its Forum of the Air. The

local radio station made the usual spot
announcements for a full week in ad-
vance of our program. Bulletins, post-
ers and invitations were made by
playground leaders and participants.
Invitations were sent to all presidents
of all organizations in the city-—~more
than 110 groups. Publicity was good
in the local paper, while the Wash-
ington papers gave some notice.

A crowd of some 2,500 persons at-
tended, and the secretary of the Cham-
ber of Commerce expressed great sur-
prise, for “Alexandrians are reluctant
to attend a local activity.” The recre-
ation department hopes to change this
situation in the future.

95

Edmund Lcamy

Roger T. Peterson, author
and ornithologist, points out
an unusual bird to Jane

and George Harrison, Jane
and Bill of “Outdoor Kids.”

 

:-
r'f

mt , ‘ , ‘, J  .

ulnn WATCHINGIS FUN—

IF YOU’VE been inclined to throw up your hands at the
very thought of trying to be an amateur ornithologist,
get ’em down. It isn’t difficult at all.

Of course you have to be interested in birds and bird
life, you must like the out-of—doors, have normally good
eyes and the time and the ambition. If you have these,
you’re all set to take up bird watching, which is part of
ornithology. Until you’ve tried it, you’ll never know
how fascinating this hobby can be.

It costs practically nothing to enjoy, though almost
at once you’ll find yourself out to beg, borrow, steal or
buy binoculars. In time, as the hobby engrosses you
more and more, you may even shell out $125 to $135
for a spottingscope. This is nothing more or less than
heavy, high-powered binoculars mounted on a tripod.

Ownership of a spottingscope will definitely label you
top-drawer. And boyoboy! That’s the life. Sit comfortably
on a stool or rock and let the birds, the glasses and your
eyes do the rest.

How Many Are There?

How many bird watchers there are in the United
States is anybody’s guess. In New York State, member-
ship in the National Audubon Society and affiliate groups
is about ten thousand. Virtually all of them are bird
watchers. In addition, there is a countless number of
persons who belong to no special grOUp.

In the New York area there are a number of bird
societies: The Linnaean (the oldest) at the Museum of
Natural History, Robert S. Arbid, Jr., president; The
Brooklyn Bird Club, Edward J. Whelen, president, 971
East Thirty—fourth Street, Brooklyn; The Rockland

Reprinted through the courtesy of the NEW YORK WORLD-
TELEGRAM AND SUN.

96

A hobby you can pursue in city parks.

County Audubon Society, Mrs. William G. Irving, West
Nyack, president; The Scarsdale Audubon Society, Cyril
Miller, president; The Bedford Audubon Society, Robert
J. Hamershlag, Katonah, president; and some others.

“Three of the greatest thrills attached to bird watch-
ing,” says Kenneth D. Morrison, editor of Audubon Mag-
azine, “are: one, spotting for yourself, for the first time,
any bird correctly—and you’ll be surprised, if you don’t
know anything about the sport, how often you can be
wrong; two, spotting a bird rarely seen in your location;
and three, building up your ‘Life List.’

A Life List

“A Life List is a record of all the birds you have
spotted correctly for the first time yourself. As great an
ornithologist as Guy Emerson, retired banker, member
of the Board of Directors. and Treasurer of the National
Audubon Society, has a Life List of about seven hundred
names. That takes a heap of bird watching.”

Bird watching expeditions under the aegis of a group
or club take place usually over week ends, sometimes
once a month. Every year all bird watchers throughout
the United States cooperate in taking the annual bird
census, a practice begun fifty years ago by the late Dr.
Frank Chapman as a substitute for the old “Christmas

Hunts.”
Taking a Census

In the first year of the census, only twenty-seven bird
watchers participated; they counted ten thousand birds.
During the winter of 1949, 4,615 observcrs participated;
they counted 8,600,000 birds.

The ccnsus is taken in the winter and always in the
same two weeks, because, as Mr. Morrison says, “with
the leaves off the trees it is easier to see the birds. Most
active periods in the bird world, however, are spring
and summer.

RECREATION

“Audubon Society members on field trips don’t con-
fine themselves merely to bird watching,” Mr. Morrison
adds. “They learn to identify Howers, trees, grasses,
shrubs and insects—a new world. The purpose of the
national organization is to increase interest in nature and
conservation of soil, water, forest, birds and wildlife.”

Try City Parks

But, in the beginning at any rate, the tyro had better
stick to birds. It’s very simple. The initial expense needn’t
be more than fifty-five cents—thirty-five to purchase a
little book, How to Know the Birds—A Simple Aid to
Bird Recognition, by Roger Tory Peterson, one of the
best known ornithologists in the world, and ten cents
earfare each way to one of the big parks in the city.

 

An enthusiastic group of campers, equipped with binoculars
and spottingscope, enjoying their hobby of watching birds.

There are plenty of birds in the city parks. Best time
to go watching is in the early morning during the spring
or summer. Some stalwarts think that you should start
out at dawn, but you don’t have to pay any heed to
them. It’s fun to bird watch in the winter, too, for the
same reason that the census is taken in December.

Mr. Peterson’s well-illustrated book tells you for what
to search when you wish to determine what any bird
may be that takes your eye. It asks questions: What’s
the bird’s size? Its shape—chunky, like a starling (illus-
trated), or slender, like a cuckoo (illustrated)? Its bill?

How does it act? Does it cock its tail up or down?
Does it wag it? How does it fly—-—undulatingly, straight,
erratically? Does it skim or soar? What are its “field
marks”? Its voice? The book tells where different birds
can be found and the season when they can be seen.

When you’ve ahsorbed all of this, like the birds, you’ll
want to Spread your own wings. The next step, if you
haven’t already taken it, is to join the Audubon Society
(dues five dollars a year, and you get the Audubon Mag-
azine free) or one of its hranches or affiliates.

Take Field Trips

As a member of a bird club, you’ll go on field trips
with skilled leaders who’ll call your attention, to the

MAY 1951

“barred owl in those woods there,” or to “a swamp spar-
row in that thicket” or to “a bittern in the swamp,” or
to something equally exciting.

Field trips usually take about half a day. On them
you’ll find everyone eager to help you “to belong.” And
you’ll learn, too, that your bird watcher colleagues, who
are fortunate enough to live outside ’the city, never cease
to be active bird lovers. Mr. Morrison is an example.

His home is on an acre of ground, with fields and
woods nearby, about halfway between Mt. Kisco and
Armonk, New York. All winter long he maintains bird
“feeding stations” on his pr0perty. In the rough bark
of a tulip tree he smears peanut butter, a delicacy. On a
big bare rock he spreads miscellaneous grain. On the
window sill outside his dining nook, in a glass-roofed
trough, he puts sunfiower seeds. Every morning he can
watch his feathered guests feeding while he enjoys his
own breakfast.

Prominent Watchers

Bird watchers come from all groups of society, rang-
ing in age from five and up. Many prominent pe0ple
have been and are bird watchers—John Kieran enthusi-
astically so. When he goes bird watching on his own.
he usually takes a friend or two along with him. One
of these is Thomas J. Watson, president of International
Business Machines Corporation.

The late Irvin Cobb was a bird watcher. John D.

Rockefeller, Jr., is a member of the Audubon Society.
Last November he received the society’s medal for dis-
tinguished service to conservation. Other memhers of
the society include Senator Spessard Holland of Florida
and Frederick Lewis Allen, as well as such stage, screen,

radio and TV stars as Fred Allen, James Cagney and
Tallulah Bankhead.

 

A serious group of watchers, on tour in the state of California,
find an abundance of birds to engage their close attention.

The glamorous Tallulah hasn’t gone on any bird
watching expeditions to date. It’ll be a memorable oc-
casion when she does. That day, for the first time in the
annals of the Audubon Society, the bird watchers won’t
be able to keep their eyes on the birds.

9?

FINGERS

IN THE SOIL

Initiative and responsibility grow on c: holf ocre

where 230 children till the soil.

E IT SIXTY-NINE radishes or thirty-
four beans, the first harvest is a
thrilling experience to junior horti-
culturists. From the Children’s Garden
of the Brooklyn Botanic Garden,* they
take home far more than radishes and
beans. They take home visions through
new doors which have been opened to
them by working with plants and soil.
One young gardener was quite dis-
turbed when his tomatoes failed to
produce fruit. The plants were healthy
but lacked tomatoes until the day an
instructor saw Johnny picking ofir the
blossoms. Why? Because he wanted
tomatoes on his plants and “not these
old yellow flowers.” Johnny learned
the hard way that a blossom is neces-
sary to fruit production and that fruits
lead to seed which, in turn, lead to
new plants and more flowers. Johnny
took home more than tomatoes.
And, then, there was little blond
Joan who asked, “W'hy aren’t there

*Now in its thirty-eighth consecutive season.

F ranees M. Miner

seeds in the radishes?” That answer

could be grown———a radish plant was

allowed to bloom and form seed. Joan

learned that the edible part of the rad-

ish is not a fruit but part of the root
system. Then she began to notice that
not only roots and fruits of plants are
eaten, but also stems of asparagus,
leaves of spinach, leaf stalks of celery
and the flower buds of broccoli. The
radish seed Joan planted that spring
sprouted far more than round, red
radishes.

The Saturday morning classes which
begin early in the spring, indoors and
in the greenhouse, prepare each child
for actual gardening. Soil is prepared;
seed is sown in pots and the seedlings
are pricked out and planted in flats. A
garden plan is laid out in chalk on the
floor and each child learns how to
measure rows and space the seeds of
beans, carrots and lettuce. Succession
plantings are planned and many differ-
ent vegetables selected——«—children like
variety. More important, perhaps, is

"Watch your feet—that’s someone’s garden!” Children’s cooperation makes garden a happy place.

 

 

Success! The first crop goes home with
the serious gardncr of Number 10. The
harvest is always a thrilling experience.

the choice of some fast-maturing
crops such as radishes and spring 011-
ions—for children are impatient for
results. Two months is an eternity at
the age of nine. But in their own gar-
den, where they watch vegetables
grow, Jimmy and Peter and Agnes
learn to wait. Though not as pretty as
flowers, a vegetable crop is practical
and edible. Youngsters like practical-
ity and do not have to ask, “What's
it for?”

Often the idea has been expressed
that every child should have a puppy.
Every child also should have a gar-
den, for only in a garden can he learn
to evaluate the true importance of
plant life. A puppy is a living thing; so
is a plant. lt is necessary to know
something of both.

An eight-hy-ten-foot plot may seem
small for two young gardeners, but
with care and a little planning, they
can reap a bountiful harvest. The
challenge of growing
beets, onions, corn and tomatoes car-
ries with it the deep satisfaction of in-
dividual accomplishment. This is more

successfully

lasting than soup greens and salad.
The ability to work hard either to-
gether or alone, to respect the rights
and property of others and to have a
good time on the job—these, too, are
part of the harvest.

Reprinted through the courtesy of
BROOKLYN BOTANIC GARDEN RECORD.

Mrs. Lloyd L. Grant

a “7m ” pays off

s has happened in so many communities,

a time-honored problem was faced by Puyal-
lup, a town of approximately ten thousand p0pulation
in western Washington—that of raising funds for a com-
munity project. This was to be a living war memorial,
and a controlling board had been set up for the plan-
ning and financing of some worthwhile deveIOpment
before the end of the war.

Funds came in satisfactorily at first, and approx-
imately eleven thousand dollars had been donated from
the various service organizations of the town and from
the proceeds of the community’s annual celebration,
“Days of Ezra Meeker.” Finally, donations practically
stepped coming in, however, and the Living War Me-
morial Board was faced with the neccssity “either to fish
or cut bait.”

The board had no need to survey the town for a
project, there being no existing field house or recreation
building of any sort for the activities of young pe0ple.
Also, the many clubs and organizations of the town had
difficulty in finding places to meet. So the board made
the obvious decision to plan a recreation building. A
town meeting, called by the board, approved this se-
lection. Now for the funds!

A bond issue——using funds on hand for the financing
of the issue—was the hOped-for solution, but the board
found this could not be done for several reasons. Many
nccessary bond issues had to be presented to the voters
in the coming election; a complete new sewer system
was mandatory; schools had to be constructed imme-
diately in order to relieve congestion; other vitally im-
portant issues were to be presented. It was obvious that
taxes would have to be doubled by the sewer and school
bonds alone; a recreation building bond issue was out
of the question.

A drive for funds seemed to be in order, but a Red
Cross drive usually netted around five thousand dollars
in the town, and the Community Chest had difficulty
raising seven thousand five hundred dollars. Obviously,
something much more than this would have to be done.

AUTHOR was member of Pug/allsz Flash Drive Committee.

MAY 1951

Perhaps a more spectacular type of drive could be
worked out. Someone had heard of a two-hour drive
that had been put on somewhere—could we use that
idea successfully? Well, we could try! A drive chairman
was selected; a date was set for six weeks later, between
the hours of eight and ten p.m.; and we were on our way.

Plans for a modest building were drawn ‘up and a
budget worked out. The building was to be erected in a
city park, so no grounds need be purchased. The board
estimated that an additional nineteen thousand dollars
would be required and that amount became the goal of
the drive. With just six weeks for thc “Flash Drive,”
committees had to go right to work, planning to can-
vass the entire town within a two-hour period. This meant
that hundreds'of canvassers and workers would have to
share in the work instead of dozens, and that the public
must be made fully aware of the drive and be eager to
cooperate.

The chairman decided that the pre-drive promotion
and publicity should be spectacular and enthusiastic.
The many teen-age groups, consisting of YMCA clubs,
school societies, church youth groups, Boy and Girl
Scouts, Sea Scouts and so on, were approached and, in
their eagerness to obtain the recreation center as well
as to do their civic duty, they took on responsibility for
the lion’s share of the work of pre-drive promotion.

Committees were set up, with one definite job for each.
One committee wrote Spot announcements and prevailed
upon the local radio stations to contribute their an-
nouncing as a public service. Another committee wrote
publicity, using pictures of social leaders, well-known
businessmen and educators to keep up news value. The
newspapers c00perated splendidly and reams of publicity
were printed, all newspapers giving the project front-page
publicity on the day preceding the drive.

One committee arranged for signs to be placed in all
buses. These were made by high school art students and
gave credit to the merchants who were contributing
their contracted space for these signs. Another committee
approached the local billboard companies and obtained
the donation of several billboards to advertise the drive.
Great canvas banners were hung across the streets, the
lettering obtained at cost, their making and hanging

99

donated by the firemen.

One thousand car bumper signs were donated by one
of the local newspapers and installed upon cars by Boy
Scouts. Slides were made for the local theatres and
shown at every performance. Ministers cooperated with
announcements from their pulpits every Sunday. A
committee of Minute Men, mostly lawyers, sent one of
their group to speak to every club, organization or meet-
ing of any kind held during the entire six weeks. A com-
mittee of the youth organizations made and set up clever
roadside signs on each side of every highway leading
to the town. With the pcrmission of the merchants of the
town, committees worked out dozens of very attractive
displays for store windows. Every other sh0p displayed
a window poster, made by the art classes, or clever
signs with cartoons drawn upon the glass in tempera
paint. Arm bands, made of colored shield-shaped tag
board, mimeographed, cut out and stitched upon tape,
were worn by the hundreds of committeemen and work-
ers all during the drive and became a coveted badge of
honor. Booster tags—three-inch tagboard discs—were
also mimeographed, cut out and delivered by youth
groups to the businessmen of the town for all clerks to
wear; and zealous groups checked constantly to see that
they were being used!

Five thousand handbills were mimeographed and de-
livered each week by the youth organizations to every
house in town and placed in parked cars. This was done
three times during the last week, two handbills and a full-
sheet bulletin of instructions being delivered to house-
holders. The hulletin presented the need for the build-
ing and information on the drive itself.

During the last week, the telephone committee divided
the phone book and called every number listed, asking
for cooperation in the drive. Two sound trucks—-—donated
——toured the town with Minute Men speakers. General
Petroleum sent their Mobilgas blimp to hover over
town the day of the drive, dropping clever, mimeo-
graphed handbills upon the backs of one hundred of
which were highly advertised theatre passes donated by
the local theatres. A huge gatefold display ad was run
in the newspapers the day preceding the drive, sponsored
as a public service by a list of business houses.

In all pre-drive promotion, three things were stressed:
c00peration by staying home from eight to ten p.m. on
July twenty-sixth; the giving of two days’ pay; and
staying tuned to KMO—the radio station used—for a
home talent show and drive progress.

.The various teen-age groups played a big part in the
entire drive. They met often in groups of several hun-
dred, elected a drive captain and board of their own and
worked tirelessly, many giving full-time to the job. They
made and placed all road signs, bus signs and window
posters. They mimeographcd and delivered all handbills
and bulletins, workers” arm bands and booster tags. They
typed hundreds of letters of solicitation to corporations.
organized pep rallies, made banners, and older groups
handled the telephone campaign. They also helped spec-
tacularly during the drive itself as shall be seen.

100

 

New recreation building in Puyallup nearing completion.

The town was carefully plotted by a committee from
one of the leading service clubs, who worked with the
city clerk from census figures. Allowing ten minutes per
call, and taking into consideration the congestion of
some blocks and the greater distances between houses in
othcr areas, exact lists of specific addresses were worked
out by this committee for each solicitor. Also, exact
boundaries were established for each captain of solicitors.

With these well-defined borders set up, crews for the
solicitation were organized as follows: a captain and
co-captain were stationed near a telephone in their area
and enough solicitors were assigned to them to cover
their territory in two hours. A drive colonel was ap-
pointed, whose duty it was to obtain fifty-five captains
and a like number of teen-age co-captains, to be assigned
to specific territories. The captain and co-captain obtained
their own crew of adult and teen-age solicitors. Constant
and rigid checking was maintained to see that each
worker understood his duties and had carried out his
assignment. Nothing was left to chance throughout the
entire drive.

Each solicitor was accompanied by a grade school stu-
dent who acted as messenger, carrying messages of con-
tributions received back to the captains to phone into
headquarters. The grade school messengers also had an-
other duty to perform. It was recognized by the board
that donated labor could be a factor in erecting the
building and that pledges of such labor to be donated
would aid in the planning. 50 special blue labor pledge
cards were given to the messengers. It was their duty
to solicit donations of labor after the solicitor had pre-

RECREATION

sented his plea for cash or a pledge of cash on his white
and yellow cards. The reason for putting the labor soli-
citation into the hands of the messenger was to prevent the
adult solicitor from asking for it instead of cash. The
solicitor was supposed to sell the householder on the idea
of cash donations.

“School” was set up by the drive chairman for three
nights preceding the drive. All drive crews were asked
to attend any one night. At this school, supplies were
given out and detailed instructions were gone over to
insure the preciseness of the mechanism of the drive.
These instructions were n1imeographed for captains and
solicitors separately and distributed for on-the-spot ref-
erence. Solicitors were taught to sell; objections were
anticipated and methods of overcoming them were stud-
ied. The most effective ways of presenting the appeal
were presented by inspired selling experts. Not one
of the 110 captains or co-captains failed to attend the
school, and less than ten of the over two-hundred so-
licitors were absent. This gave proof to the chairman of
the effectiveness of the pre-campaign ballyhoo, and as-
sured an efficient crew for the big night.

A large crew of troubleshooters lined up to stand by
at headquarters in order to take care of any unforeseen
problems and to act as solicitors when a captain found
that her crew was not large enough to cover the job.
Incidentally, so little trouble developed that this crew
spent an enjoyable evening listening to the radio pro-
gram and watching the excitement.

A pre-drive rally for all solicitation crews was organ-
ized in the high school auditorium for the hour preced-
ing the drive. Crews got together; additional supplies
were distributed; and last-minute instructions were given
for the first half-hour. Then, at seven-thirty, Dr. R.
Franklin Thompson, president of the College of Puget
Sound, addressed the rally. The radio broadcast began
at that point, so his speech was carried to the towns-
people. Dr. Thompson is a nationally-noted speaker of
almost hypnotic power and was undoubtedly a factor in
the success of the drive. His services were obtained by
the commander of the American Legion, who was in
charge of the rally and the memorial service which ended
the drive.

The speech ended promptly at seven-forty-Iive and the
high school band, which was on the stage to play during
the two-and-one-half-hour radio broadcast, broke into the
Star-Spangled Banner, after which the inspired crews
filed out of the auditorium in silence to their waiting
cars, to go to their stations. At eight o’clock, all the
whistles and sirens in the town created bedlam and the
drive was on—in a downpour of continuous rain!

A leading radio station was engaged to broadcast the
rally preceding the drive and the entire drive itself.
These two-and-one-half hours of radio time were paid
for by radio advertisers of the town, each of whom was
allowed his usual commercials. However, many mer-
chants did not take advantage of this privilege. The
town’s top talent was obtained for this show and their
appearance advertised to attract listeners.

MAY 1951

The popular prize-winning high school band formed
the backbonc of the program. The show was highly ad-
vertised and was good enough to attract even listeners
who were not interested in the drive. Later, drive work-
ers reported that one hundred per cent of the town’s
radios were tuned in to the program.

The commander of the VFW was made drive general
and given a map of the town on the night of the drive,
with the station of each captain numbered and spotted
thereon. Each captain was to phone in his report of con-
tributions every fifteen minutes. lf he did not hear from
a captain, he sent a messenger out to see what was
wrong. These messengers were National Guardsmen in
resplendent uniforms, mounted on motorcycles.

The purpose of these fifteen-minute reports was not
primarily to spot trouble, but to pick up news of clona-
tions made, with names and amounts, to be broadcast.
The local telephone company COOperated by setting up
a bank of phones to handle messages. All that a worker
had to do in order to reach headquarters was to say
the magic words, “Flash Drive,” and he was put through
to the members of the telephone committee stationed at
the many phones in the high school building. The mes-
sage then was written and dispatched to the auditorium
headquarters by the Sea Scouts, who acted as runners.
The program alternated a three-minute musical number
with three-minute bulletins. Only a part of the donations
could be read, but enough were given to keep excitement
at fever pitch. The business district had been secretly
solicited before the drive, so a list of donations was on
hand to announce before the bulletins began to come in.

Many colorful stunts were planned to keep interest
stimulated throughout the town during the drive. Some
of these were modified by the rain, but their noise was
heard all over town. The county sherifir sent his color-
ful mounted posse to parade the streets in full regalia;
the American Legion policed all areas in uniform; Na-
tional Guardsmen acted as messengers on motorcycles
with sirens screaming; highway patrolmen and local
police patrolled outlying districts. The very loud and
deep-voiced siren of a cannery was chosen to blow the
fifty-dollar whistle and sounded for every donation of
that amount. The “Fifty-Dollar Honor Caravan” was a
p0pular and colorful stunt. This consisted of two deco-
rated and placarded cars driven by VFW drivers in uni-
form, the first car containing the fifty-dollar donor, the
second filled with cheering teen-agers, led by a National
Guard motorcyclist, siren screaming, carrying the donor
to the cannery to blow his own whistle. Many donors
sent their children for the thrill, and the idea was so
p0pular that many additional caravans could have been
kept busy.

The radio station had its mobile unit touring the town,
picking up interviews and describing local color. A great
deal of the whistle-blowing went"over the air through
this mobile unit, but the whistle blasted almost contin-
uously throughout the drive, so that the townspeOple
heard it through their walls, if not by way of the radio.

Also continuously heard, and occasionally picked up

101

by the mobile unit, were the newly-installed, powerfully-
amplified chimes of the Methodist Church. These were
called, for purposes of the war Memorial Drive, the
“Voice of Memory” and played stirring hymns.
Timed to be completed just as the drive went off the
air was the Memorial Service, hcld in the city park un-
der the auspices of the American Legion. Silence was re-
quested on the radio and all noises ceased at nine-fifty.
A chaplain presided over a simulated grave and a wreath
was laid, followed by the salute of the American Legion’s
decorated honor firing squad. All of this was broadcast,

ending with taps from the Legionnairc’s bugle.

As fast as the crews of solicitors completed thcir ter-
ritories, they filed in to report to the battery of twenty
accountants recruited from the local banks and finance
companies. Soaking wet, hair streaming—for it was still
pouring rain—they were thrilled and happy. Hot coffce
appeared from somewhere and thc steamng room be-
came packcd with milling, sodden workers, first waiting
to be checked in and then waiting for results as the

(Continued on page 112)

 

 

gr I  Children raise Hag on the

playgrounds, Memphis, Ten-
nessee, on July Fourth.

Robert Kresge

HAVE YOU A PROGRAM ON THE FOURTH?

It wasn’t so long ago that the most
significant of our national holidays,
the Fourth of July, was the time for
community celebrations everywhere.
Everyone participated or had almost
as good a time watching a full day’s
program of activities. Civic pride
thrived on such projects.

Then came the automobile. The pub-
lic could move fast and easily. It pro-
ceeded to do so, scurrying off to
beaches, parks and other recreation
areas. Just as these areas now do their
peak business on the Fourth of July,
so also do the highway police and am-
bulance drivers.

Because of the safety factor and the
crowded conditions found at all play
spots, a new trend finds the commu-
nity observance of Independence Day
making a strong comeback. People will
gladly stay home if there is some sort
of unusual entertainment available.

ROBERT KRESGE is the superintendent
of recreation in Butler, Pennsylvania.

102

Public recreation departments are pre-
sented with a great opportunity to be
of much appreciated service in provid-
ing this entertainment.

Butler, Pennsylvania, staged a
Fourth of July celebration in 1949
which was successful from every possi-
ble angle. The entire program was
planned and produced by the pe0ple,
with the board of recreation serving
as a coordinating agency. The organ-
ization was as follows:

The mayor’s committee was the gen-
eral committee. Appointed by the
mayor, it consisted of twelve prom-
inent citizens, men and women, repre-
senting business, industry, education,
the press and all three religious faiths.
The director of public recreation
served as secretary to this group.

The mayor’s committec planned the
program and established operating
committees to carry out thc different
parts of that program. Every service
club and veterans’ organization was
requested to furnish three names and

other committees were made up from
these names. A concert and pageant
committee was responsible for the after-
noon program in Ritts Park. Another
committee arranged a drum and buglc
corps demonstration given at night at
Pullman Park. This was followed by
a fireworks display which was planned
by a fireworks committce. Since this
was the costly part of the day’s pro-
gram, this committee also raised thc
funds necessary for the entire celc-
bration—approximately one thousand
dollars.

Two other committees completed
the organization. The publicity com-
mittee contributed a catchy slogan,
“It’s Butler on the Fourth,” and han-
dled the usual details. A safety com-
mittee was responsible for the safety
and comfort of the crowds. Membcrs
of the mayor’s committee servcd as
chairmen of all but the safety com-
mittee, each group averaging fiftccn
members.

The response was proof that the
public is ready and willing to stay
home on the Fourth. No larger crowd
ever jammed Pullman Park and thc
comments heard on the fifth of July
were decidedly complimcntary. Thcre
is no question in anyone’s mind that
the program was sufficiently worth-
while to be repeated each year.

The success of Butler’s 1949 com-
munity Fourth of July celebration was
attributed to the fact that it was a
local productiOn throughout, from thc
planning to the execution. No outsidc
professional help was used; all thc
entertainment came from the commu-
nity. The only “outsiders” in the cntirc
program were the two men who set
off the fircworks.

RECREATION

NTERESTING FACTS relating to per-
l sonnel in school recreation ap-
pear in a bulletin recently issued by
the Research Division of the National
Education Association of the United
States.* The study, which includes also
health and physical education, was un-
dertaken because of the scarcity of
reliable up-to-date information as to
what the schools are doing in these
fields. Reports were received from 873
city-school systems. The bulletin is
confined largely to factual information
and no attempt was made to evaluate
any of the data qualitatively. The facts
presented, therefore, cannot be used as
indexes of either good or bad practice,
but they do portray the present status
of selected features.

In reporting on standards for cn-
rollment and time scheduling, it is
pointed out that the requirements of
adequate time for recreation in the
school schedule cannot be stated easily
because of the difficulty in defining
and evaluating recreation. “Generally
speaking, recreation consists of the
things we do for our own enjoyment.”
A reasonable rule proposed states that
“every day each pupil is entitled to
some time for those things which he
enjoys.”

The report points out that the value
of enrollment percentages of pupils in
regular programs of recreation is lim-
ited, in view of the lack of previous
understanding specifically as to what
activities constitute recreation. The re-
port states: “Recess periods, after-
school games, school movies and var-
ious club activities were considered as
recreation by most of the respondents.
However, there were many other
scheduled programs which were count-
ed by some superintendents and not
by others.”

The percentage of elementary pupils
enrolled in regular school recreation
programs was thirty-six per cent in

*Personnel and Relationships in School,

Health, Physical Education and Recreation,
October 1950. $.50.

M AY 1951

A STUDY OF PERSONNEL

in School Recreation

825 systems reporting, thirty-seven per
cent in junior high schools in 537 sys-
tems and forty per cent in high schools
in 776 systems. The number decreased
progressively from fifty-six per cent
in elementary schools in cities of 2,500
to 4,999 population to thirty per cent
in cities of one hundred thousand and
over. In high schools, however, the
smallest and largest pOpulation groups
reported a considerably higher per-
centage of enrollment in recreation
than the three intermediate groups. In
no type of school or population group
did the percentage exceed fifty-six,
which was far below the percentage
of pupils enrolled in health and physi-
cal education programs. No data were
reported as to time devoted to recre-
ation programs.

in commenting upon p e r s o n n e 1
needs, the report states: “Principles
for determining the need for personnel
in recreation are nonexistent. In sum-
mer programs it is desirable to have
some specially-trained persons to or-
ganize and to furnish over-all direc-
tion. During school months, most of
the responsibility for recreation proJ
grams will rest with the regular school
staff; however, in the larger systems,
one or more directors or supervisors
may be needed to coordinate recrea-
tion with other school activities.” A
total of 4,014 full-time and seventy-
eight part-time employees in summer
recreation programs was reported. No
count was made, however, of recrea-
tion personnel employed by non-school
agencies in these cities.

0f the school systems reporting,
only 10.7 per cent employed at least
one full-time s u 1n m e r recreation
worker and 87.8 per cent employed no
such personnel. The preponderance of
such employment in the large cities
is revealed by the fact that eighty-five
per cent of all the recreation workers
reported were in cities of one hundred

thousand or more. In cities of 30,000
to 99,999, the average was about two
full-time persons per school system; in
cities of 10,000 to 29,999, one-and-one-
half per system. These figures clearly
indicate the relatively small role played
by schools in furnishing summer rec-
reation programs in most cities.

The average incomc for summer
workers was $362 for the season,
with the period of employment averag-
ing from eight to ten weeks.

School supcrintendents were asked
to list, aside from budget limitations,
the most serious obstacles and difficul-
ties which must be overcome in order
to strengthen their programs in health,
p ll y s i c a 1 education and recreation.
Lack of adequate physical facilities—
including gymnasiums, suitable play
areas and' equipment—was listed by
the largest number of school systems
(220). Some of these respondents ex-
plained that money alone would not
solve the problem because site expan-
sion was impossible and playground
sites were not available anywhere near
the building. Shortage of adequately-
trained personnel, an inadequate pub-
lic relations program and uncoopera-
tive parents were also listed by many
superintendents.

The report states in summary that
cxtensive progress has been, and is
still being, made, but that, in many
respects, programs as a whole still fail
to measure up to the minimum stand-
ards recommended. “Boards of edu-
cation, in purchasing sites for new
buildings in years past, gave too little
thought to expanding school programs
and future enrollment. Ample play
areas, suitable athletic fields, adequate
gymnasiums and provisions for build-
ing eXpansion received little or no
consideration in many cases. Boards
should be certain that past mistakes
are not repeated in their building plans
for the future.”

103

5—-.. -.

Mrs. Roy V. Wright

THE AUTHOR SPEAKS AS HOME OWNER, TAX.
PAYER, RECREATION COMMISSIONER AND AS A
GRANDMOTHER.

ON A BEAUTIFUL day in October, I Hew halfway across

this country and, fortunately, had a seat which
gave me a clear view of the countryside. From LaGuardia
Airport to the end of the flight, the most impressive
sight was the great number of new deve10pments—miles
and miles of new houses, whole new communities—but
in not one that I could see was there open space for a
park or a playground.

If we are to keep our normal people normal, some
serious thought certainly should be given to providing
areas for recreation in every community, with a planned
program to supply leisure-time occupation for many of
our citizenry. Shorter work weeks and a more adult
population require a broader outlook in the field of
recreation.

What does one want or need to look for in locating
a new home? Is it just four walls? Surely there should
be a place for children to play—where they can learn
how to mingle with, and enjoy, all kinds of pe0ple, where
neither race nor creed enter the picture.

In Newark, and in most metrOpolitan areas, one must
learn to work and play with pe0ple from every nation.

W

AUTHOR was appointed to Board of Recreation Commis-
sioners of East Orange in 1936; served for twelve years.

104

 

inznew Housing Units*

In learning to know them, it is possible to have a better
understanding of them and of the situation in the world
today. Someone has said that the pe0ple we do not like
are the ones we do not know. I believe Will Rogers once
remarked that he had never known a man he did not like.
Children given this opportunity to know pe0ple may be
better fitted for future leadership in their communities.

Children who live in apartments need playgrounds
where they may work off surplus energy, making it pos-
sible for the family to enjoy their company when they
are at home. It is necessary to have areas for young
mothers where they may take their babies or where
friends may meet—a well-organized playground for every
age. No longer can recreation be considered in terms
of youth and consist only of sports and entertainment.
It must be so large in scope as to include every group
from tots to the lonely older person. A well-rounded
recreation program deveIOps a way of life and givcs some-
thing to every participant. When homes had backyards
and there were vacant lots in every neighborhood, when
houses were large enough to accommodate an aged
member of the family and one could retreat to his own
corner on a rainy day and send the children to the attic
or the cellar to find amusement, living was much less
complicated.

Now we need a parking place for our children as well
as for our cars because they must be kept off the streets.
We need a skilled director to guide the teenagers in
their clubs and sports; older young pe0ple need organized

*A talk given at The Newark News Forum on “Play Space in
New Neighborhoods.”

RECREATION

leadership to enable them to continue skills, learned in
school or college, which enrich not only their lives, but
life in the community as well.

Providing playfields and recreational opportunities for
all ages is sound city government. Recreation helps to
build community spirit and neighborliness which every
city needs. It should be a part of early planning. Since
we cannot live to ourselves alone, let us learn to live
and play together. How much better adjusted is the adult
who has learned this difiicult lesson—and where can it
be learned better than in well-directed recreation cen-
ters? As a taxpayer I am interested. I would much prefer
to have one cent of each tax dollar spent for recreation
development in one of our Essex communities, spent to
keep normal people normal, than to have to spend many
times that amount of my tax money to try to return
mentally sick to normal living.

How many of those now in our mental institutions
are where they are because of “not belonging” to any
interesting or interested group? In seeking satisfactions
they have become lost and have not chosen well.

How many of our delinquents might have found their
satisfactions in other channels than crime had their
environment and opportunities been different? Recrea-
tion is really re-creating relaxation from regular activity
and, therefore, is a morale builder.

Just last week a well-known physician told me that
years ago he found relief from mental strain resulting
from his heavy responsibilities by joining a little theatre
group. He became so interested that after an evening
with the group, he returned home refreshed both mentally
and physically. Through the years, he has continued
this recreation which helps him in his effort to help
others. It is his hobby.

A great doctor has said: “The two weeks a year you
don’t work may be more important than the fifty you
do,” which emphasizes the need for relaxation and va-
cations. Since many of our people must find vacation

relaxation ncar homc, this country provides areas in our
many beautiful parks.

Granted more facilities for comfort and enjoyment
might be provided, but many picnic areas are available
and there are areas for active sports. Somc of our com-
munities are making progress in enlarging the scope of
their programs to meet current nceds. The National Rec-
reation Association and some outstanding recreation di-
rectors are largely responsible for what has been accom-
plished thus far.

More varied programs could be made available to our
people if more of our citizens would take an intelligent
interest in trying to obtain greater cooperation from our
public schools for the use of their facilities after school
hours, and in taking a more active interest in church
activities for youth. Ball fields and tennis courts are fine,
but let us not forget that the teen-ager needs clubs
where fun is there for the taking, and that the lonely
older man needs a comfortable place in which to meet
his friends for a game or relaxation. I know of one group
of very old men who met for years in a corner of a
furnace room to play checkers. Now they enjoy a better
place because someone was interested. Spectators also
should be considered and little theatre groups encour-
aged. All of these things will make a community a better
place in which to live. Let us h0pe, therefore, that every
new housing deve10pment will he planned for better
living.

Well-known Dr. William Menninger has stated:

“Recreation has not only played an important part in
the treatment program of many mental illnesses, but it has
been a considerable factor in enabling former patients to
remain well. Therefore, psychiatrists believe that recre-
ative activity can also be a valuable prevention of mental
and emotional ill health . . . The psychiatrist would rec-
ommend the importance of taking aggressive steps to
educate the public as to the value of recreation in the
maintenance of mental health.”

 

MAY 1951

Wading Pools . . . An Asset or 0 Liability?

Continued from the April issue of RECREATION

Russel I. Foval, Superintendent of Recreation, De-
catur, Illinois—At one time our city had wading pools
but discontinued the use of them because of the cost of
maintenance and Operation, the safety hazards involved
and the difficulty of securing pr0per sanitation. We sub-
stituted spray slabs, and think we minimized all of the
undesirable features of a wading pool; but most impor-
tant is the fact that now we can afford ten spray slabs for
the cost of one wading pool. This, of course, means that
we can reach many more pe0ple. Our objective is to have
one spray slab on every playground to take the place of
street showers and wading pools.

We try to spread our money as far as possible, and
feel that we have no right to spend too much on any
one phase of our program. The wading pool expense is
out of pr0portion to other expense, particularly when
we can solve the problem with a substitute.

The wading pool is probably satisfactory for the large
city because such a large amount is necessary that oper-
ating expenses can be justified. The more that are oper-
ated, the lower the cost. However when you only have
two or three to Operate, it becomes too expensive. Most

departments are constantly on the lookout for ways to give
more service on limited budgets, and we feel that
the use of spray slabs instead of wading pools is a step
in the right direction. Also, the use of spray slabs in-
stead of street showers is a safety and health measure.

Robert A. Lobdell, Superintendent of Recreation,
Evansville, Indiana—This subject of wading pools is
of great interest to me because I always have felt that
wading pools were the most dangerous type of facility on
any playground. I based my thinking upon two primary
reasons: first, it was impossible to provide sanitary
water economically in a wading pool and, secondly, it
was impossible to provide qualified lifeguard supervision.
As you well know, most wading pools have a depth of
from ten to twenty-six inches of water. (Few wading
pools have water twenty-six inches in depth; a pool of
this type is essentially a children’s swimming pool.—Ed.)

A civic organization of Evansville last year constructed
a shelter house and Spray pool and turned it over to the
park department for operation. We also have three other
wading pools which we converted into spray pools during
the past summer. This was done very economically by
placing a three-quarter-inch pipe around the perimeter
of the pool and puncturing small holes in the pipe to
create a spray effect in the center of the pool.

At first the children complained because they wanted
a standing depth of water in which to play but, gradu-
ally, this idea was dispelled and, by the end of the sea-
son, the spray pools were receiving as much participation
as had wading pools in prcvious years.

106

1 should like to say that wading pools, as we llavc
known them in the past, should not be included in thc
facility plans of any recreation or park department. The
only exception I would make to this is when they are
contiguous to a swimming pool, whcre the water can be
made sanitary and competent SUpervision provided.

The spray slab used in Decatur, Illinois, is a rectan-
gular area of concrete reinforced with wire mesh, di-
mensions sixteen by twenty-eight feet and with rounded
corners. It has no curve, but slopes toward a drain in
the center of the slab, which is four inches lower than
the perimeter. Six sprinkler heads, with three-quarter-
inch nozzles, are set six feet apart in parallel lines near
the center of the slab.

0. A. Zeigler, Secretary and General Superintendent,
Board of Park Commissioners, Tulsa, Oklahoma—We
have twenty-three wading pools in our parks. These are
the circular type, measuring forty feet in diameter. The
water depth measures from three inches at the sides of
the pool to approximately thirty or thirty-one inches at
its center. We also have four rectangular pools, with
graduated depth similar to that of the circular pools.

The wading pools afford the most p0pular recreation
activity in our city parks from the time they open on
June first until they close on Labor Day. They furnish
splendid exercise for the boys and girls, who are permitted
to use the pool for one hour. Then they must come out
of the water and rest in the sun for thirty minutes.

We have not had any serious accidents in our pools.
The only way a child can be injured is through his own
carelessness—such as taking a running jump into the
pool or diving and bumping his head. A caretaker looks
out for the welfare of the children in the pool.

We use the seventy per cent chlorine powder in com-
hination with ammonium sulphate as a disinfecting agent.
The pool is emptied each night and before filling it with
water the following day, it is thoroughly scrubbed and
washed. The chemical is added to the water four to five
times a day, depending upon the load and the weather.

Thcre never has been an infection of any kind traced
to the wading pools in our city. We maintain a good test
and we havc been enjoying excellent results.

The new state laws relative to swimming pools are at-
tacking the wading pools and the state health department
is recommending that the latter be equipped with a chlo-
rinator and filters or that thcy be converted into spray
basins. I- feel that thc spray basin would be satisfactory
but that it might not he as p0pular with the children
as the wading pool, which furnishes more active exercise.

RECREATION

?

ARE WE ADEQUATELY

‘3

N THE MATTER of the cooperation
I of recreation departments with 10-
cal housing authorities, in developing
programs and services for low-rent
housing project families, a letter from
the Public Housing Administration in
Washington states:

“Reports from the field indi-
cate the urgent need for more co-

operative planning between hous-
ing staffs and recreation agen-
cies.”

Although full cooperation has ex-
isted in some cities which have wide-
awake and progressive recreation de-
partments, the picture as a whole
shows that a great deal more needs
to be done by both groups in working
out a cooperative plan at the local
level. Only hy this means can an ade-
quate provision of very necessary rec-
reation facilities, as well as program
and leadership services, be assured.

Unfortunately, in some cities where
there are established departments of
recreation, local authorities” housing
projects have not been able, for various
reasons, to secure any assistance. Are
we then, as a profession, to admit that
we are inadequate to meet these cur-
rent needs? Or are these cities the ex-
ception to the rule? In the case of one
city, it has been pointed out that the
“city park and recreation department’s
funds go for the upkeep and mainte-

MAY 1951

MEETING

nance of football s t a d i u m s, golf
courses, parkways, tennis courts and
city landmarks, with the result that
very little money is left for leadership
of neighborhood programs.”

On the brighter side, however, in
the cities where full cooperation has
existed, leadership has been furnished
on a year-round basis to develop pro-
grams and services for all age groups
and to meet their varied interests. For
instance, there have been developed
numerous teen-age clubs, classes in
art, handcrafts, dancing and dramat-
ics. There have been varied outdoor
activities and many special programs
such as pageants, festivals, carnivals
and tournaments. Even in cities where
assistance has not been year-round,
leadership has been furnished during
the summer months, at least, for play-
ground programs.

Some of the greatest values derived
from cooperative planning between
housing officials and recreation depart-
ments have developed from the various
recreation training programs in which
project tenants have participated. For
instance following arts and crafts insti-
tutes, sponsored by local departments,
so much interest was created that ten-
ant leadership—-—with the assistance of
local trained staff—was able to con-
tinue such classes for other tenants.
In some cases, even housing manage-
ment staff has participated in these
training courses.

LOCAL NEEDS?

The following information summa-
rizes recent reports to the Public Hous-
ing Administration from a limited
number of local housing authorities in
cities throughout the country, where
services have been provided housing
projects by recreation agencies.

Memphis, Tennessee — Playground
directors for housing projects are pro-
vided by the recreation department
of the Memphis Park Commission for
a limited program during most of the
year; however, these directors give
their full time in the summer.

Austin, Texas—The city recreation
department maintains two leaders in
the white projects. These leaders work
with the staff in providing a program
that is flexible enough to include all
sorts of activities for various age
groups. One leader is provided for the
project for Latin Americans. No lead-
ership is provided for the Negro proj-
ect as the city recreation center for
Negroes is only a few blocks from it.

Oklahoma City, Oklahoma ——There
is a city park and program across the
street from the project. They provide
nine baseball diamonds, two swim-
ming pools, wading pools, tennis
courts, playground equipment, picnic
facilities, a clubhouse for handcrafts
work and supervised instruction for
most of these activities during the
season.

Perth Arnboy, New Jersey—Year-
round leadership is provided by the

107

city recreation department. The indoor
program includes athletics, table ten-
nis, talent shows, plays, Boy Scouts,
mothers’ club and dances. These ac-
tivities are all carried on in the one
room available, where a well-baby
clinic also is conducted.

Savannah, Georgia -—- Recreation
services are planned to mcct the needs
of all age groups, and total participa-
tion for this phase of the over-all pro-
gram exceeds all others. The city recre-
ation departmcnt is limited in its
scope for a city the size of Savannah,
but the housing projects receivc their
quota or share of services available.
The three low-rent projects and two of
the three war housing projects located
within the city limits have trained
leadership provided by the city recrc-
ation department. Planning and gen-
eral technical supervision is available
to all from the recreation department.
The organized tenant groups have pro-
vided a large number of volunteer
leaders for full athletic programs,

planned social affairs, movies and
so on.

Atlanta, Georgia -—- The recreation
department holds its training meetings
for its leaders in the project buildings.
Many of these leaders assist the hous-
ing authority with special events.
Training is given volunteer workers
in housing projects; officials are pro-
vided for sports events; the playground
at Capitol Homes is used for softball
games and has been used for a number
of city-wide tournaments.

Cleveland, Ohio (Report for the
year of 1950)—Carver Park Project—
The recreation department furnished
two full-time leaders and four part-
time leaders, serving 2,717 adults and
17,210 children; Cedar Apartments——
The city has provided seven leaders
throughout the year, and there has
been special emphasis upon recreation
for older people; Lakeview Terrace—
The city provided a part-time director;
the Board of Education provided eight
leaders and a summer playground
leader; Woodland Terrace———The pro-
gram of the community center is di-
rected by leadership from the recrea-
tion department and coordinated with
that of other centers in the area. The
following leadership was provided in
1950: one full-time director of recre-

108

ation, one full-time recreation instruc-

tor, one part-time arts and crafts
instructor, two music instructors, onc
playground i n s t r u c t o r; Woodhill
Homes—The city provided three part-
time workers, totaling twelve hours
per week during the year and one full-
time worker during the summer; Outh-
waite Homes—The city furnished one
full-time program dircctor and eight
specialists for part-timc activities.

In addition to thc above, field office
reports show the following:

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania —— The
city recreation department provides
nineteen leadcrs for seven projects for
summer programs.

Elizabeth, New Jersey ——- The city
recreation department Operates a play-

ground on project land under a rev-
ocable lease.

Los Angeles, California—There has
been considerable leadership furnished
the housing projects through the city
recreation department. Recently, the
local housing authority has held a
series of conferences, with public and
private recreation agencies, to secure
joint planning and agreement in the
development of community facilities
to serve new projects now being
planned. Representatives of the Los

In M emorz'am

John A. Martin

John A. Martin, who for twelve
years traveled throughout the country
for the National Recreation Associa-
tion, died in Ger-
many on March
twenty - seventh.
At the time of
his death, he was
an ofiicial in the
community activ-
ities branch of
thc office of the
United States
High Commis- --
sioner to Germany.

For thc National Rccreation Asso-
ciation, Johnny Martin had conducted

 

social recreation courses. Those who
knew him never forgot the endless
ideas he had for recreation programs
and the contagion of his enthusiasm.
He first went overseas in 1942 as a
program director with the American

Angeles City Department of Parks and
Playgrounds, the Recreation Service of
the Board of Education and a number
of private agencies participated in
these conferences. They provided the
housing executives with an oppor-
tunity to define the limits of their re-
sources with respect to providing com-
inunity buildings and areas. Architects’
drawings of proposed buildings and
arcas werc discussed at length and
numerous rcvisions made as a result
of the recreation agencies’ suggestions.
It is believed that these conferences
produced a highly valuable result in
redcsigning proposed buildings and
areas to make them more functional,
as well as in setting the stagc for in-

crcased cooperation.
i i I'

Reports to the National Recreation
Association from Denver and San
Francisco indicate that these commu-
nities have been doing a good job of
cooperation for some time. In other
communities, worthwhile beginnings
havc been made; or, as in Birming-
ham, Alabama, or Vancouver, Wash-
ington, cooperation is deveIOping be-
tween local community forces and local
housing authorities.

Where does your own recrcation de-
partment lit into this picture?

 

Red Cross and had heen in the mili-

tary government program since 1947.

George Hansen

Milwaukee County lost a faithful
and capable friend in the death of
George Hansen, county park superin-
tendent. In his column in the Milwau-
kee Sentinel, Lloyd Larson reported:
“. . . Without George Hansen’s inter-
est in golf, his burning desire to bring
the sport to the masses and the neces-
sary driving force to turn dreams into
reality, there would have been no not-
work of beautiful public courses to
which this county points with pride
today . . . ”

Dr. E.  Pritchard

Funeral services were held recently
for Dr. Earle A. Pritchard, founder of
the Niagara Falls, New York, Munici-
pal Recreation Department and former
director of recreation in Reading,
Pennsylvania. During World War 11,
Dr. Pritchard carried on recreation
work for military personnel in Hawaii.

RECREATION

How To Do lTQ Egzmwmz

Prinl gour own designs on Towels. Handkerchiefs. Napkins.
) I Curlalns. Aprons. Luncheon Sels.
/

 

"'-' ' “w.—

 All gou need»—

l.Old fell hal.
2. Piece of wood.
.3.Liguid glue.
4.5cissors.

5. Enamel poinl.
(9. Small Oll brush.

  

To Do lTl

ls‘l. CUl design from piece old {ell hal.
2nd. Glue Tell piece of design on wood.

N0l€~ Glue {ell design in reverse
on wood . Pul glue on holh

fell piece and wood .

3rd. Pain‘l enamel evenlg on fell design.
41h. Press design againsl clolh.
51h. Hammer back of block evenly wilh mallel.

61h. Lifl block Jfrom clolh.

 

There is gour prinl 

Repain’r feli design for each prinling. 

Poinlinq on enamel
Besl rcsulls secured when clolh is

placed on 20 To 30 sheeis of newspaper. Clolh should be
laundered and pressed before prinling. (ls/leewellsllséell

MAY 1951 109

P E R S 0 N N

W. C. Sutherland

E

 

Opportunities for Summer Employment

THE COMMUNITY recreation movement, as it is conduct-
ed by such public agencies as recreation commissions,
park and playground departments, school boards and
other administrative authorities, offers many Opportuni-
ties for seasonal employment. Each year a rather large
number of vacancies are filled by younger pe0ple with
very little professional experience.

Those with some college training and eXperience are
usually the most successful in securing positions which
make the summer fairly worthwhile financially.

The younger workers frequently serve as junior lead-
ers and counselors under more experienced workers. High
school students may prepare for a career in this field by
taking courses in, or related to, recreation. Social studies,
public speaking and participation and leadership experi-
ence in clubs and extracurricular activities lead to pro—
fessional preparation. Skills in activities commonly asso-
ciated with recreation interests should be developed and
may include arts and crafts, hobbies, nature, sports, so-
cial recreation and games, music and dramatic activities.

It is advisable for young people to gain as much ex-
perience as possible during high school and college train-
ing. The experience for beginners is of primary concern,
and salary should probably be a secondary considera-
tion. For most full-time positions, college graduation is
required. Many colleges today have major curriculums
in recreation leading to undergraduate and graduate de-
grees. Some colleges are beginning to specialize in one
phase of recreation, such as industrial recreation, hospi-
tal recreation, park work, nature education and camping.

Leadership is the most important single factor in de-
termining the effectiveness of a recreation program. Also,
recreation leadership is a relatively new and growing
profession and requires persons with natural aptitudes,
leadership ability, special training and experience. Per-
sonality, attitudes, interests, capabilities and a concern
for the welfare and happiness of others are considered
very important by prospective employers.

WILLARD C. SUTHERLAND is in charge of the Recreation
Personnel Service of National Recreation Association.

llO

There are many type of positions, but those which
seem to appear the most frequently in local public and
community recreation systems include the following:

SUGGESTED
SALARY

SUGGESTED
EDUCATION

POSITION

Playground Director Two or more years of $150 - 300 month

college
Assistant Playground Two or more years of 40 - 75 week
Director college
Camp Director College graduate 35'- 60 week

Recreation Leader Two years of college 275 - 450 month

Two or more years of Volunteer or nominal
high school salary

Junior Recreation
Assistant

Experience for the above may vary from little or none
to considerable, depending upon the candidates, local con-
ditions and circumstances. Most cities of any size (two
thousand report to the National Recreation Association)
conduct some kind of organized recreation during the
summer. Students should inquire about Opportunities in
their own and neighboring communities. They should
find out who their local recreation authorities are and
where they are located. Frequently, they may be found in
the city hall or with the board of education.

The National Recreation Association provides a Recre-
ation Personnel Service, but is more effective in placing
college graduates with special training and experience.
Most of the summer jobs are not publicized widely and
go to hometown boys and girls who make an effort to
get them.

Other sources of summer employment for those inter-
ested in recreation are with the various youth-serving
and character-building agencies. The lnost'frequent op-
portunities seem to be for camp directors, assistants,
general counselors and specialists in music, drama,
crafts, water or land Sports and nature. Leadership in
day camps is increasing under the Sponsorship of both
public and private agencies.

RECREATION

Most of the national agencies have their own person-
nel scrvices, and students should feel free to get in touch
with them. The following is a partial list:

Boy Scouts of America, 2 Park Avenue, New York,
New York.

Boys Clubs of America, 381 Fourth Avenue, New
York, New York.

Camp Fire Girls, 16 East Forty-eighth Street, New
York, New York.

Girl Scouts of America, 155 East Forty—fourth Street,
New York, New York.

National Board of the YMCA, 600 Lexington Avenue,
New York 22, New York.

National Council of the YMCA, 291 Broadway, New
York, New York.

National Jewish Welfare Board, 145 East Thirty-second
Street, New York, New York.

The American Camping Association, 343 South Dear-
born Street, Chicago, Illinois, does not maintain a per-
sonnel clearing service, but many of its “sections” do.
For instance, the New York Section, 342 Madison Ave-
nue, New York 17, New York, sponsors a Counselor
Placement Service without charge to candidates.

In some cities, oHices of the United States Employ-
ment Service handle summer camp positions. If your
city has a Council of Social Agencies with a recreation
division, this might also be a source for leads. Cer-
tainly it would be wise to get in touch with the local
counterparts of the national agencies mentioned above.

Some positions will be advertised in the newspapers
and through local and state civil service channels.

Some Defense-Related Problems
Facing the Community Recreation Movement

National agencies providing recreation services to the
armed forces already are recruiting large numbers of
trained recreation workers for their programs. The
Department of the Army alone filed requests with the
National Recreation Association for more than three
hundred workers at one particular time. As defense pro-
duction grows and special programs are needed for de-
fense workers and their families, there will be a still fur-
ther drain upon personnel. In addition, professional recre-
ation workers are being recalled into the armed services
and, in the light of past experience, many probably will
leave recreation for better paying jobs in defense work.
The increased demands upon existing on-going com-
munity recreation programs will also require additional
professional leadership if these programs are to pro-
vide service on anything like an adequate basis. All this
means a growing demand for workers, which will con-
tinue over a period of years.

At the same time, the defense program is creating
conditions which will seriously dry up the source of
supply for new workers. According to the deputy com-
missioner of education, the passage of the eighteen-year-
old draft would cut college enrollment in half. One col-
lege has announced in its bulletin that it is cutting its

MAY 1951

budget thirty per cent beginning next fall and reducing‘
its instruction and administrative staff by at least twenty
members on the basis that the college will face a forty-
eight per cent drop in enrollment of full-time students.
It is, therefore, clear that the number of workers who will
be taking undergraduate and graduate work in prepara-
tion for recreation leadership from now on will be
sharply reduced.

The National Recreation Association has received
funds to employ a worker to devote his full time to rec-

reation personnel problems arising from this defense
program.

Every effort will be made to discover new sources of
personnel. Also, we shall attempt to make the most of_
present known sources. Inventories are being made of
the present personnel in recreation training at colleges
and universities. We want to know the number and lo-
cation of men and women who are graduating this spring
and summer with special training in recreation. Colleges
are being requested to report this information and to
encourage their graduates to register with the associ-
ation’s personnel service. Our recruiting campaigns are
being increased and workers generally and friends of the
recreation movement will want to share in the reSponsi-
bility for discovering new prospects.

Special recruiting materials are being deve10ped which
can be used by local recreation workers, high school
principals, vocational guidance people and by members
of college faculties. Your suggestions as to how the
association can use its experience and resources to help
assure an adequate flow of personnel into the college
training curriculums and, subsequently, into the pro-
grams throughout the country will be greatly appreciated.

Continued Needs

The armed forces” need for recreation personnel con-
tinues. There are many vacancies overseas and in the
continental United States. Most of these are for women.

The positions for crafts instructors and hobby direc-
tors, which have been filled by military personnel, are
expected to be filled soon by civilian employees. Both
men and women will be considered for these vacancies.

The demand for recreation workers with the American
Red Cross is increasing. Workers are needed for Ger-
many and the areas in the Near East.

There are fewer vacancies in such areas as the Aleu-
tians, Hawaii and the Canal Zone.

News About People

The Georgia State Legislature recently passed a bill
which consolidates the city (Atlanta) and county (Ful-
ton County) park and recreation departments. George
Simons, present superintendent of parks and recreation
for the city, is to become the general executive of the
combined department. Miss Virginia Carmichael, now
the superintendent of recreation in Atlanta, will be his
assistant in charge of the recreation program.

111

 

112

 

Leathers, Tools, Patterns, Buckles,
Lacings, Books

 

Free Ester Leathercraft Catalog illustrates,
lists 34 unfinished items in leather, com-
pletely sewn, punched, ready for colorful
hand lacing. Buy wholesale. Excellent
profit margin on Belts, Billfolds, Purses,
Coin, Key Cases, etc.

 

ESTER LEATHER COMPANY

DEPT. R—HIS St. Paul Street
ROCHESTER 4, NEW YORK

J

OFFICIAL

D PITCHING
HORSESHOES

    

SUPER RINGER

A
M
O
N

 

JUNIOR OUTFIT

Diamond Calk manufactures the most camplete line of
pitching horseshoes ond accossarles, including the
Eagle Ringer and Dauble Ringer, and alsa the lighter
weight Junior shoes. All shaes are made from highest
grade steel, forged to exact welght for perfect bol-
once. Carried in stock by most hardware distributors
everywhere.

DIAMOND'CALK HORSESHOE CO.

4616 Grand Avenue o Duluth, Minnesota

 

FLASH DRIVE
( Continued from page 102)

mounting total of donations was announced by excited
accountants.

The rain, which had started late in the afternoon, had
completely spoiled dinner for all the committee members
who had worked so hard towards putting on this deal.
Would all this tremendous effort be lost? Would the
solicitors who had to do the job show up? At seven
o’clock—time to start the rally—just a small handful had
gathered in the auditorium. The chairman faced this
small group with the bitter taste of failure in her mouth
———defeated by an unseasonable storm! By seven-ten, the
auditorium was packed! Only five solicitors were miss-
ing and there were plenty of substitutes. With spirit like
this, how could a drive fail? How could anything fail?
This was as American as apple pie, this outpouring of a
town’s spirit.

Soon after midnight it was apparent that the goal of
nineteen thousand dollars had been passed; final totals
showed that twenty-three thousand dollars had been
raised! A subsequent tally of work pledges totalled all
the bulldozing, dirt-filling, top soil and landscaping, labor
and supervision of wiring the entire building. The
town’s leading contractor donated the supervision for
all construction, eliminating the necessity of contracting
the job, and union carpenters, bricklayers, plumbers,
painters volunteered. Many times the day labor needed
was pledged and the women wanted to work, too! It will
be a headache to the builder and the committee to or-
ganize this donated labor and utilize it, but it can and
will be done.

As a part of the city park system, there will be no
worry about maintenance and upkeep. That will be the
city’s burden. Building suppliers will be approached for
donations and discounts on materials. There will be no
contractor’s profit—-—in fact, “no profit for anybody” is
thelmotto now.

The plans for our modest building have been scrapped.
We are very proud that our memorial to the war dead
will be a fine building. The main auditorium will house
a regulation-sized basketball floor with a permanent stage
and dressing rooms across the end. The front of the
building will be three stories high, faced with glass and
Roman tile. We will have a large banquet room on the
top floor, lobby, rest rooms, offices, one club room, check
room, a fine kitchen on the main floor and more much-
needed club rooms on the floor below the street level
which, owing to the slope of the ground, requires very
little excavation. Wings can be added to the building
as the town grows, without destroying its symmetry.

Factions of the community which had been estranged
for years worked shoulder to shoulder on this project.
The unity of effort seems to have created a by-product of
good will which is continuing in our town. We may have
to raise a few more thousand dollars to complete this
building, but we w0n’t turn a hair over that. For now

we know that Puyallup can do it! Our flash drive has
paid off!

RECREATION

IIOIDEO PARTY

PARTIES

::55-v EF-ud.‘

:55 :55 5: :55:|155:::5mw 3:55. 5:555. 5:535“ :5555“ 5:55
:55: :0 :00:n ::r5 535:5w 255:0 5:55:55w :0:5:35m 0: 52:00:25
:55 ::5 5055.5 0: 53:: 355: 55m3:55? :5:5:05 5055 ::553:5:
:00555 0: 255:535 ::3:::35 :55 :53 :05: 55:5 :5555. ::55
5555: 0: :53 355:5 355355 5055 :3:5:.::302:5m 3:5:8v 5:5
5:0:55:5m 55: 2:550 55.55::5mw m0 ::5: :5:.. 555 55:55:55 ::5 m55m:m
2::: 5 555:. 557::0:::05 :5:35 ::5 5:50 5:3:5.

:055:5:0l.:.:355 15:55 35 5:55: :0 :5 2:7: 4.75:: 35:0 :55:5
55: 555: 5: 055 55: 0: ::5 5.005. ::55 0:5: 15:55.5“ 2:5 5:55:55:
:: :55 555:: :0:5:755::5m ::5: :3. 55:3 3055: ::5 5.0055. 5355
:5 m:m55: :5 m:55 :05. :5 555:5:0 :0 5:3:“ ::5 ::55 15:55.5 2:5
35 ::r: r55:0:5m :55:m :0:55:: :55: 3055: :5 5.005: :5 55 5:.
55:0: :0 535:5 055 3 5535 0: :5 :m:535.: :: :5:: 555555:“ :5
15:55.5 2:5 35 555m? :0:5 :5 ::55 55: 5:5 5.055: 5:0 :5 0:55.
15:55. ::55 ::555 :5 55:5: 55: :5: 0: 55:05... 55:55:55: 2:55
5505: 0: :5 15:55 35 :5 :5 ::55 5:55:5quu ::5 0:. 5:5 ::5::: 15:55
2:50 :0:m5 55: :55W 55: 5:55 :0 :5 555m:5:. :: :5 305:0 :5 53::
:3m5 55: :5 5:55:95u ::55 :5 :::A5::: :0 :55055 55255:: E15 :5
305:0 55: :55 :20 555:5:05.

555:3:00: ::5FRII:5 ::5:5 5.55:: 555:: 15:55. :55 055 55:53 :00:
2:5:5: :5 :55:5m5m 2:: 5 5:0::: 0:. 5055.5 2:::: 5 :5:5:. 55:: :5:05
:5 70:05:55 53055 ::5 5.0055 :0 5 mom: 55: :55W :0 ::555. 25:35:32
:5 5:5:05 05 7:5 n.:55:5:.:00::: 55: :0 55:55 ::55555“ 70:05 05 7:5
55:55:5m5: :00:. E :55 555 :5:5:. 55:55 :3 ::5:5 @555“ :55 2:::
30:52:: 555: 055 :05. 555:: 15:55.. 90:: :55:5m5m 555 :5 555:
:5 :35 :0:: 5:: :5 35:55 05 5 :55“ :55: :5 535 ::5: :5 55:58
:3 :5 23:05 :5555 35 5:: :5 5555 :55m:5.

552.5: :4308|.H:5 205::.:05 52:50:25 35 m0:5m :0 :5 ::52555:
:: ::5:: :05“: m5: 5 5:5555 :0 :0 5055 :35: ::5.02:5mw 50 5:5 ::55
:15 5:5555 :0 ::302 :5 :05::.: :55 0: ::55 :55: :5 :55: 0: 555::
:5555. ::555 5 5:55. 2:::: ::m :55:» :0 ::5 55:55.5. :5 ::5 :51:9 :55m
5 55:55 :52:5m 0: 5 :05::. :: :55 255: ::5 55:5 :0 :55 5555::5
:00r:5m 535. 505: ::5 :20 55:5 05 ::5 :55rm 0: ::5 5:55:35 2::.::
:00:5:5: :0:555m 0: 5:0::: 0:. 35:5 :5:5:.. :u5<::5 555:: :55 2:5 5
5:5 525: :5 :35: 55:5:05. :55: 15:55. ::55 ::355 5:55555 :0
::302 ::5 :05::.: :5 5005 mm :15 :35: :00:5 ::5 5:53 :55::“ :5
5.555 :0 ::5 5:55:35 5.55555 ::5 :35: 55: 35% :: :55:: :0 ::5 55505:
15:55.. :: 5 15:55. 5:5 :0 ::302 ::5 55::3 05 5:: ::355 5:55: :5
5555: :55 5:0 :0 ::5 5:55. 55:35:: 55:5 3055: ::... 5:35 :0 ::555
55: :55: ::5 :35: :0 ::5 55x: 15:23.

 

:455 ::55 H.535. ::555352. W0550>5 b555,..2555: 0.: 33:5 55: R5535?
55:55.

(Fold Back)

=55:qu :55 5-:-
FQZ-w-u-ZC #32:”... 13-1-32.

:u3::5m 35 :55“ 55555553: 55: 555:: :0 55:5.I.
3555255555: 55: 55555 35 5230:0155 :05. 50:5 :5 :03.
::5::5::5m 305:0 55: ::55 0555:05.
::I5 :::55:::: 5:552:55 :5 5555:.
::lm55m:m 35 5055:3529 5:55: 55: 35 m:55 0:0:.0::55:::5m
:0 5053::055 :0 ::5 :55.
:53 :53 5:55“ 55>; 5:535: m55:0w :5::5m 05:::. 0:. 755:55:m :5.
<::5:.

Fernagmlu: ::5 ~305:0 :5 55::“ 55:5 ::5 :5<:5::055 5:: :55:.
::55 555550330: 2:: :5 :5::0:5: :: 555:: 35 555:.

O5:m::5|1:u0::5: :5m::5 0:55

 

:: :53 :0:00:

35553555 :02

C05,: :<::mm 5
::55 0: :63 5:5

 

 >5: ::OSH Hmmoxmm Umnm I
.3525 5255.. was. . 558 llll-
35 :55 :55: 60 ::w 5 : 2.: :
:u>:w.HM: 5:5 35:55.: 5 505 0:. :03 :2
.25: 2:: 55:5 2555 0: 305555 :3
<03 :53: 5:5m 305:0 3 3m55:5::05:

 

0:55:05” 10:: ::55 >.:w :023: :55. 10:: ::55 :5 55.3:
:55. 10:: ::55 wb :023: :55. 10:: ::55 WM 525:: :55 :55.
55:: ::023 :025 55 :55 :0:: :5<::5::05m. 3023 :00:5 5:. 2:55
:5<::5::05 :5 05555:.
b55055::055|:a:5:2 35 50: 5:25:25 5555.553:: :05: ::5:: :0 5:: :0
:03::: 55505155.: ::55 ::355 5:55:55 0: m555 55: 5 50:: ::5::02...

53:: NE: 0515.. 5:35. 5355::05 35:55:55 5:555:55 05 :5 55:: 0: :5
25:055— W5355::05 >mmo5:5:05.

5

I'AIITIES

A "SPRING T0. 10” PART"

0 ma: £02 502000000

00000: :000? 0:3: 00>0:0:3 :03 0.000000 00:00: 21.000000002:
03:300 h00000—0 m0::003 000.0
0003 00:0m .000: .0000 .:000: 0 00m 0:. .0 0000::I000000000:

.000000w00_0 n0000000 50.000050 00800 00: 0::00000<

$0000 00: 00000.:000:00 w0.:000000 J:w:

0000:U 2:00:00 00003 000 000 000 00000 .0000. 00:3 000 0000m
00:00: :03 0:0: 00.: h00:0:30000 30:00 n.30000il000000:000\0~:
0::0 0:0.0:> :0 0:00: 0II00: 00: 000TI00 0000: m0:

->0:0 .:00: 03:0: .00w0:00 .0000:000 00030:m ::00< :0 0:00: 0 0:
0:000 :0::3..10:000 0:: 0030000 30000000 000000m 0:3 000 0: H. .300
02% 000 0.0000: 02% :000 .0000m 00 0030=0 000 00:0 .0: 0: 00:3
300: 00:0 00:0 :0::0 00000m 0:: 00:3 000 000:0 w0:%::000: .:0:0_0:
03m 00 00003000 0:: 0000:: 0: 00:. 0.0:: 0:: 000:0 3000.003 000....
0:00 0: 0&0: 000 00000: 0:: .000000 0>000 00 00000w 0:0 00: 000000,
-000 000 0: 0: 000 0m00_ 0: 0000.0. 0:0 :: 0:03 0.5000 0:: 000: 0.0::
0000:: 000.000 000 000000:000:00 000:0: 0:0. 00 00000w 0003 00.: 000
:0000 0: 0000w 0:0 :: 3:00:00 000m 0 0: 0::.:. 30:0:00 0:0 :0 000
0:0 00 0000:: 0:000 w0:000 :0:0000 0 :03 00.000 0:: 0: 30:0:00
0:00:00: 00 0: 000:. 00:: 0000000<II0800000- :000vxlm. .02 0000.0
000:.0 0:0 :0 000.00.020.00 0:: 00: 00000 0 00 00 00:00 0:

000 0000w m0:00:3 0:0 00 000: 0000000:0 0:0 00.00000: 0:3 000000
0:: 00 003w 0: 000 00:00 :0000 < A0000 :03
000500000003 0: 0000m 0:: :: 00000000000
0: 0:000 00020000000 :000: 002% 00 000:00
0:0 00: 030000 00 0:00:50 00 000.0000:0 :0
000:0:0 0:0:0 0:000 00 00000m 0:0 0w000000m—

.008 01.080 05.0.0 .00 2:...
.00: 00:38 0:1000w02 25w

.w=®.HA~E 3 Swiimw~h®£guw£u O=m>vz

.:0::000:000: 0:10:00 .002
.00w:0 01::::000:U 00000:?

 

“0000.00: 000.: .000000 0000.0: 00.00 :03 0000:00000 3—0000 0: 00:.
000000000 0:::00v_000 00 :000 0 00:00 w0m00 h0000000:0 0 00:58:00
00 00:. 0: 0000w :000 :0< .:m0000 0: 0000w 000 0: 0>: 00 000:
00 .0000. 0< 0000000 00:00:. 0:0 00 w0:000000 .00000w 0:030 00
3E0 000: 00000w 00:>:QII00.00000000:\ 000000.: 0:00 0:110 .02 0.000%.

.000: 000..

000 00030:: :0 00:00:: 000: 00:. 000000 00.0.0.0: :0000 000.00000 0:.
00: 00 00000 0:. 000 000:.000:Q..I:000.: 0:. 00 00030:: 0005 .m

:0000. 0 :0

:000 0:: 000000 000:0 00 :0000 0 000 :000 0.3% :00 .0000000 00.00

0

(Fold Along This Line)

0:0 000000 000 000:0.00 0000. 000: 0000:UII:000m 0:. 0005 .N
.003
00000:0 00:0000 0000 0:0. .000: 000000. 0:. 0: 00000 0:. 000:0 0. 00:00
000 00:: 0000000 :00000 0:. 00 00 000:0:00:: 00:03 :000 ._00w:0
003m 0 00 .00000 0 :000 03m 000 00000 0:. :0 :00: 0:. 00 0:: 0.0:
00000 0 00 00000000000 0:: 000:0: 7003:0020: 00: 003000 00000 0:00
.0w00: 00D: .000:0:00:: 000 00000000000 0:: 000 0002000 0:. :0
0000: 0: 000.0 0:00000 0000: 000.000 0:0 0: 0000:00000 000:0.00 0.0:
:00000 0:0 0.00:0: 000:0 000 00: 0 0.00: 000.000.. 000: 3000 000
300500000 0:: 000:0 41000000000000 m0::0000-0amltm. .02 0.0.0.0

.00:00>0 :0 000: 00:: 0003 0. 00000002000 :04: .0: 0003

0:3 000 0:0 00 00:00 00:0000 00:.000 000 00: @0000: 0:. 0000

0:3 000000 0:0 0. 003m 0: 00:00 0 000 000: 00:: 0: .0: 0:0 00:

000003 0000m :0m .3008 00000000000: 00: 900.00 00R: 00...::\ $0303:

0 000...: 0: :00”: 03000.0: 00. 000000..: 00000:: 00 :000 00:00:00. 0000:”:
.:00000 0000w 0 0: 0000000000 000 0.030 0: 0.00: 000000. 0:.:.

:000 00 00000 0 000 00000 :0 0:0 0

030 .0m00_ 0 0: 000000000 00.:II000000: 00:: 000.000.: N .00): 0.0.0.0

00.0.0: w0m000
0.50.000: 0000 3:50.00: 0 0:20.000 00 000: :_0:-0..0 .000: .0 0.000w

 

00:0 0000000 00: 00 0:: 00: 00: 0 000000 0. 00000000 000000 :00m:

-n. . Huh—mu
.3... 0 . 0

saw! mm. ouwhc£w_® mm. 0: 02:0 JOMHTIVIEH—uhcm Om #5::

.. (1.... 3 ‘Iimuii .-
t t 1. ln‘
 ., xxx

wEEEE .00000000 .000: .00000II00: 0 m0:
:000. 00: 000000000 0:0:00000. 0:: w..:0_00.00
0w0v_000 0 00.0% 0: 0000w :00m: 0000.000 0:0:.
00: 0000 00:: 0:0 000: 0:0:. :0 :0: 00000
0:0 00: 00 0.000w 0:0 :00 307: 0.0.000»: 000
000:0 00 00: 0:0 0: 00020 :0 00:00:. 00.00
0:: 000 0000: 00:. 0000 0:: .000 3000 000000
:000 0.30: 000 00: 000 0: 0000020 000 0:0 0:00 h0.00000 000 00:00:
0:00 :: .0000: 0:0 00 ::0: 00:00 0:. 000 000. 0:: 00 0.0: 0:. :0
::0:-000 0000 000 000:0 :000 00:0000 .030 0: 00: :000 .00 00::
.00000 .900: 00 0.0:: 0000.0: 00000000000000 0.00:ir0_::0000 :: .0000
0001.000: .00:00: :0 0000030 0001100: 20>: VILN .02 0.00.0

 

.0::_0000 000000003 3:000:03 000
00030: 0.0000 :0000: .::03 0:0 00 00000 00000 :0 0000 :020 0... 0000
0: 000 000. :0000m .0000:0 0200:0000 .030: 00000 00000 0000w
000 .00_< 30:00 0: 000000000 00000: 000.30 00.: 0.0.0000... 00.20 000
.000000 :0 .000:00>0 £00.00 0:. 0. 0.000 0:. :0 000:0 000 0000000 0:.
0000: w0_0000 0000.000.m 00:00 w..:000.:0.00000 0:0 00 0000m :03

 

SK FAYETTEVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA! Ask any man
A in the street! He’ll know!

But, until the news broke, the suspense was terrific. 0n
the telephone posts, on the roads into town, on the store
doors, over the radio, in the newspaper were the words,
“What Is a Do-Dad?” And no one knew!

Seven years ago Selwyn Orcutt, Fayetteville’s Super-
intendent of Recreation, sat talking with Harry Willets,
then working with the FSA, who had thought up the
Do-Dad idea and wondered if it would work. In January
1951, the chance came to try it, and Mr. Orcutt got busy.
He needed help. He needed volunteers as leaders for his
boys’ program and he needed some money to expand
this program. And so he planned a campaign to get
both.

First of all, the recreation department called a meeting
of the local newspaper and the three local radio stations,
discussed the prOgram with them, got their official ap-
proval and agreement to go along with the idea.

The first week was set aside just for publicity—and
what publicity! Over six hundred stickers, eight by four
inches, with just four words—What Is a Do-Dad?—in
black and white, were placed, at eye level, upon all the
doors of mercantile establishments so that everybody
entering a building couldn’t help but read the question.

Large signs, four-and-one-half feet by three feet, car-
rying the same question, were set in the middle of the
main highways coming to the city.

The radio broadcasters asked “What is a Do-Dad?”
on every break, fifty-two breaks a day, until the last day
when they changed it to “A Do-Dad is coming.”

The whole town talked Do-Dads that first week. Some
people thought that it was an advertising campaign for
a new candy bar. The merchants all looked at each other
and wondered which one of them was putting on a
publicity stunt. No one actually knew who was behind
it until the recreation department broke the story!

MAY 1951

Selwyn Oreutt, Superintendent of Recreation, examines a sign.

At the end of the first week, the newspaper and the
radio stations announced what a Do-Dad was. The Cape
Fear Broadcasting Company presented it like this:

“So you know now a Do-Dad is simply a dad who
does. He is a person who feels the needs of his children
and responds to them. It goes without saying that the
needs spoken of here are not the everyday needs for
food and clothing, but those for love and attention. And
it also goes without saying that the Do-Dad is the sort
of person who considers himself the wealthiest man in
the world simply because he has the willingness to do
and the youngsters to do for. The story broke prema-
turely, but it is hoped that the teaser was in effect long
enough to stimulate interest in the true spirit behind the
title, and that the spirit of the day will have a special
meaning to fathers and their children on Sunday, when

Intriguingly mysterious signs appeared on the streets and the
roads into town, on the store doors and on telephone posts.

——--—...

- ' - —"+— —

 

 

the ministers of Fayetteville will join the promoters of
the idea and dedicate their sermons to the subject of
father-child relationships. Beginning next Monday, the
children of the city will be enrolled in a Do-Dad mem-
bership drive which is expected to be carried into every
home. Climaxing the two-week Do-Dad campaign will
be a parade scheduled for Friday afternoon, January
nineteenth.”

That wasn’t all. The mayor issued a proclamation,
that first week, declaring the following Sunday to be
Do-Dad Sunday. Manypof the churches cooperated—the
ministers preaching Do-Dad sermons.

The newspaper ran the following ad for several days:

“Wanted—-—Unlimited number of Do-Dads. Assorted
sizes. Must have sound mind, loving heart and willing

hands.”

The radio used jingles, too:
“Hey Dad, be a Do-Dad;
Hurry up and sign on the dotted line;
For, Dad, when you are a Do-Dad
You are helping kids to have a finer time.”

The following week was set aside for further publicity.
The judge of the City Recorder’s Court issued a state-
ment endorsing the Do-Dad program, and the head of the
Youth Council also endorsed it.

Judge H. C. Blackwell said, “Nothing can be more

important than the movement to bring about a better un-

 

THIS BIG ILLUSTRATED

 LEATHERCRAFT

CATALOG AND GUIDE

   

LARSON LEATHERCRAFT
FOR CRAFTS CLASSES

Complete Stock o Prompt Shipment

Leathercraft is our only business, and our stock is the
largest and most complete in America. That is why you
can always depend upon immediate and complete ship-
ment of orders sent to us. Whether your requirements
are for beginners’ kits needing no tools or experience, fer
very young boys and girls, or tooling leathers, su plies
and tools or older more advanced students or hob yists,
be sure to check die LARSON LEATHERCRAFT CATA-
LOG first. Write today for your FREE on y of our new
24-page illustrated Catalog and Guide to 1latest Leather-
crat projects.

 
 
  
    
  
  
   
  
   

J. C. LARSON COMPANY

The Foremost Name in Leathercraft

320 s. Tripp Ave.. Dept. 1007. Chicago 24, Ill.

'J. C. LARSON CO... Dept. 1007
'820 5. Tripp Ave., Chicago 24, Ill.

Please send me a FREE cop of your latest
T24a-1Page Illustrated Catalog and uide to Leather-
cr t.

NAME—m
ADDRESS

 

116

derstanding between father and son, mother and daugh-
ter, and those movcments which have, for their purpose.
the promotion of good feeling and understanding betwccn
parents and their children certainly will contribute to
better citizenship and may prevent some of the juvenile
delinquency which appears to be growing.

“The Do-Dad movement will devclop into an organi-
zation which will have, as one of its purposes, the aim
to prevent the juvenile from having to attend court as a
defendant. If such an ambition could ever be achieved.
we could all join in our praise of such an effort and such
an accomplishment and say that ‘happy days are here
again’.”

Then forms were sent out to all dads through the
schools and, as they signed up and returned these forms.

they were given an orange and black button announcing

“I Am A Do-Dad.”

Do-Dud Entry Blank
Membership fee $1.00

I wish to join the "DosDods" of Foyetteville, to help coop-
erote with the Youth Council in their work of furthering youth
octivities for both boys ond girls in our city.

I hove experience in__....__.._______.._._______.._._.______s__
octivities ond would

would not be oble to

help cooch or instruct.

Address ond telephone number

The purpose of the Do-Dods is to get the fothers to help
either finonciolly or in o cooching c0pocity to instruct the youth
of Foyetteville.

It will help to bring the porent ond child a little closer. It
would enable us to hove fother ond son wiener roosts, field
doys ond other octivities in which we could include both
fothers ond sons.

Results? Many of them, both tangible and intangible.
First of all, a file of volunteer help will be made avail-
able to all the youth agencies in the city.

Second, financial contributions will be forthcoming
from many dads.

Plus—community interest, a “personalizing” of the
recreation program and the developmcnt of a feeling of
personal responsibility on the part of the men of Fay-
etteville.

Every community has many Do-Dads if it will only
find them. Fayetteville did!

 

HEAR (Y)E

Why in the name of all creation
Do so many people say Recration?
1t jars my nerves—so I make a plea
For heaven’s sake put in the E.”

RECREATION

 

A Service to Boys in Uniform

The Recreation Department of Nash-
ville, North Carolina, is asking parents
of boys in the armed services to send
their names to the recreation office.
These names are then sent to the teen-
age clubs in the community in which
the boys have participated prior to
leaving for camp, and the clubs are
keeping the boys informed on the re-
sults of sports programs and other
matters of interest to them.

High Times

This is the season of Junior-Senior
banquets and proms. Need ideas?
Themes? Suggestions for glamorous
parties for your teen-agers? There’s a
fine book that will help—High Times,
by Nellie Zetta Thompson. It’s pub-
lished by E. P. Dutton and Company,
Incorporated, 300 Fourth Avenue,
New York 10, and priced at $2.50.

Order from the publishers and men-
tion RECREATION.

County Map

County recreation setups will be in-
terested in this idea from the Erie
County Youth Recreation Pr0gram,
J. Y. Cameron, Ir., Director, 40 Dela-
ware Avenue, Room 304-, Buffalo 2,
New York.

After two years of trying, Mr. Cam-
eron has set up in his office a “map
rack,” including a blown-up, detailed
map of every town and city in Erie
County. He is now marking on local
maps, in easy code, the location and
typc of every recreation spot, sport or
non-competitive activity, in every town
and city, whether or not they are cur-
rently in use.

Wouldn’t a city map of this sort be
useful, too, to city recreation depart-
ments?

MAY 1951

Greenhouse

An unusual feature in the industrial
recreation program at Calloway Mills,
La Grange, Georgia, is the green-
house where plants and flowers are
grown for landscaping all areas within
the mill fence or limits of mill pr0p-
erty, in addition to the recreation
areas and buildings. During the win-
ter, any employee may bring his porch
flower boxes to the greenhouse to be
stored and cared for.

Parents! Summer Is Coming!

A kit on “How to Plan a Home
Playground” is available for fifty
cents from the Recreation Division of

the Canadian Welfare Council, 245
Cooper Street, Ottawa, Canada.

Golf School

The recreation department in Al-
bany, New York, runs very active
classes in golf. Frederick F. Futterer,
Director of Recreation, uses a large
gym with a very large net for these
classes. The balls used are “Par-ct,”
made of fabric, but of such weight and
strength as to give the indoor golf stu-
dent full freedom in his strokes. The
classes are conducted during a seven-
weeks’ course, and there are three
groups each week, each group having
its own evening at the gym.

Good Ideas from Salina, Kansas
l.A plan whereby the Elks show

free movies in downtown theatres ev-
ery Monday morning while the play-
ground leaders hold their staff meet-
ing. In this way, no one notices that
the playgrounds are closed that morn-
ing and the leaders don’t have to
worry about what’s happening when
they’re not around!

2. A plan whereby red flags, saying
“Playground Is Open,” are hung in

the same places where similar ones
are hung the rcst of the year saying
“School Is in Session.” The flags are
the small hand type, but the parents
are used to them and can tell as they

drive up to the area whether or not
someone is in charge.

The Newcomers Club

The Newcomers Club plays an im-
portant part in the welcoming of new
residents—an excellent idea for a small
community facing an impact of new
war workers. Whenever a new person
makes Adrian, Michigan, his resi-
dence, a member of the Newcomers
Club calls upon him at his home,
brings discount slips good at many
business places and formally welcomes
the man and his family to the city.
During the year, certain social events
are held to which the newcomer is in-
vited—such as a dinner dance at the
country club, a musicale at the college-
or other events. Each Christmas, a
huge party is given and every child
receives a small bag of candy and a
toy. Money for the activities of the
club is donated by merchants and busi-
ness concerns, and some money is
made on dances and other events. The

club has an official hostess, who is a
volunteer.

Lights Attract Crowds

In Salina, Kansas, 3 number of
lighted areas make night programs
possible. When an NRA representative
visited there last summer, she reported
that, in one park, thirty-five square
dance sets were going. (The callers
were paid. The ladies wore long
skirts!) Close by, the tennis courts
were in full Operation, with great num-
bers of people waiting their turn. The
shquleboard courts were crowded and
the cement table tennis tables were all
in use. A group was playing roque
and everyone was having a most en-
joyable evening.

 Arizona Style!

The Valley of the Sun Square Dance
Organization, Incorporated, sponsored
by the Parks and Recreation Depart-
ment. of the city of Phoenix, Arizona,
has an attractive little booklet of
square dance calls, “Arizona Style of
Modern Square Dancing,” priced at
fifty cents. No music—but there are.
calls for forty-eight dances, printed
and illustrated attractively.

117

POLICE CHIEFS NEWS, January 1951
Juvenile Crime Prevention, William
P. O’Brien.
ARCHITECTURAL RECORD, February
1951
The Pre-School in Action, Heinrich
H. Walchter and Elizabeth Walch-

GYM EQUIPMENT

Gymnasium Equipment tel"
Sunday School Doubles as Nursery
Telescopic Gym Seats School.

Spiral Ramps for Stadium Traffic.
PARK MAINTENANCE, February 1951

Pitfalls to Avoid in New Outdoor
Pools, Chauncey A. Hyatt.

Tight Market in Prospect for Pool
Equipment.

Sanitation Aided by New Pool
Chemical, Edward R. Williams.

Artificial Rinks, Are They Practi-
cal Outdoors?

JOURNAL OF THE AMERICAN ASSOCIA-
TION FOR HEALTH, PHYSICAL EDUCA-
TION AND RECREATION, February .1951

Some Standards Are Needed—In
Selection of Sports Equipment,
Charles Heilman and Virginia
Bourquardez.

Physical Education, Recreation Fa-
cilities, Functional Planning and
Standards. 0

Need of Recreation for the Aged,
Ollie A. Randall.

An Experiment in Campus Recrea-

tion, W. J. Tait.
CAMPING MAGAZINE, February 1951
The Value of Sports in Camp, Rob-
ert J. Delahanty.
Your Camp BuildingProgram, J ul-
ian H. Salomon.
A Survey of Kitchen Facilities in
Twenty-five Agency Camps, Agnes
M. Carlson.
SAFETY EDUCATION, February 1951

Actually How Dangerous Is Touch
Football? D. K. Mathews and

E. D. Michaels.
Keep Play Space Clean.
Give the Other Fellow a Break.
HIGHROAD, February 1951
Recreation in Our Church, Larry
Eisenberg.
BEACH AND POOL, February 1951
A Swimming Program for Children
and Mothers, Virginia C. Kirby.
Swimming Pool Water; Its Care

Basketball Scoreboards
Basketball Backstops

Steel Lockers, Lockerobes
and Grade-Robes

70% gm W9
FRED MEDART P'RODUCTS,INC.‘

3566 DE KAlB ST. ST. lOUIS 18, M0.

_ For 78 Years
" The Standard Of Quality

 

3W3 Elf All
‘31 Nl'FtllDllllD
“Willi—E (C 

Wat-“HS lanair'. t l-lHTITt'F-J
at  ital
{mil Altar-NM ll  

“03313011137111 Jill

'36 it

 

118

Magazines and Pamphlets

and Treatment, Sears Berggren.
Life Saving: A Common Sense Per-
Spective, J. H. Mueller.
AMERICAN CITY, March 1951
Planning Parks and Recreation
(Part 1), Thomas C. Jeffers.
Are Indoor-Outdoor Swimming
Pools Practicable? Wesley Bintz.

TODAY’S HEALTH, March 1951
Play Is a Serial Story, Marion L.
Lerrigo.

PARKS AND RECREATION, March 1951

Children’s Fairyland, William Penn
Mott, Jr.

Landscape Planting in State Parks,
Herbert M. Blanche.

Park Turf, Tom Mascaro.

Who Cares About Summer Heat?
Ed Gilmore.

Handball Courts—the Detroit Way,
J. J. Considine.

Maintenance Mart.

BEACH AND POOL, March 1951
NPA M-4 Construction Ban Dis-

cussed.

New Type Indoor-Outdoor Pool,
Wesley Bintz.

Unit Heater System Popular.

Care and Treatment of Pool Water;
Filtration Equipment, Sears Berg-
gren.

LAWS AND REGULATIONS RELATING TO
ORGANIZED CAMPING. State of Cali-
fornia Recreation Commission, pub-
lication n u m b e r 9. Sacramento,

California. $1.00.

COMPILATION OF LAWS RELATING TO
RECREATION. State of California
Recreation Commission, publication
number 8. Sacramento, California.

$1.00.

CORIMUNITY ACTION FOR THE AGING.
New York State Association of

Councils of Social Agencics, New
York City, New York. $.20.

THE JOURNAL OF EDUCATIONAL SOCI-
OLOGY, May 1950. The Payne Edu-
cational Sociology Foundation, In-

corporatcd, New York City, New
York. $.35.

PUBLIC RELATIONS PROGRAMS — HOW
TO PLAN TIIEM. Sallie E. Bright.
National Publicity Council, New
York City, New York. $1.00.

RECREATION

 

New Playroom Equipment

Four new pieces of nursery school
and kindergarten playroom equipment
have been designed and are being man-

 

ufactured by the J. E. Burke Company,
Van Dyne Road, Fond du Lac, Wis-
consin. Sturdy, colorful and practical,
they include a merry-go-round, hobby-
horse, a gate swing and a turning bar.

The merry-go-round, priced at $115,
measures six feet in diameter and
twenty-three inches in height from
floor to hand rails. It can be con-
veniently moved from one location to
another, yet is completely safe. Perma-
nent lubrication assures noiseless oper-
ation.

Youngsters will have great fun be-
ing a Hopalong Cassidy on the hobby-
horse. Its saddle-shaped seat provides
opportunity for each child to adjust
himself to the most comfortable posi-
tion. Pulling with the hands and push-
ing with the feet will start the horse in
motion and even the smallest tot will
learn how to “giddyap” in a few min-
utes. The hobby-horse is priced at
forty-five dollars.

The Swingate revives that hard-to-
resist temptation of swinging on the
front yard gatc. Priced at twenty-eight
dollars, it has particular value for chil-
dren who are physically handicapped,
providing opportunities for exercising

deficient limbs in complete safety.

MAY 1951

The Burke-built turning bar also is
easy to move from one room location
to another and has many popular uses.
Priced at twelve dollars, malleable iron
fittings with patented interlocking knob
construction offer maximum strength
and safety with minimum weight.

Plastic Laces

In response to the demand for a
strong yet easily workable lace, one
that is safe to use and stands up under

 

extensive wear and tear, the Hex Cor-
poration of Cambridge, Massachusetts,
introduces its new all—plastic lacing——
Rex-lace and Rex-cord.

Rex-lace, made of solid plastic in
eighteen colors, is available in two
sizes, 3/32” wide and 1/8” wide. It
will not crack, peel or scuff and is not
affected by moisture or most chemi-
cals. It conforms to all specifications
for use in crafts workshops, schools,
hospitals and other institutions.

Rex-cord, manufactured in one size
only, .065” in thickness, can be braid-
ed, wrapped, woven or laced with ease.

For further information about these
two products—Rex-lace and Rex-cord
-——write to the Rex Corporation, 51
Landsdowne Street, Cambridge 39.

New Partnership

 R. Carpentcr, 1560 Anscl Road,
Cleveland, Ohio, and C. A. Post, Con-
sulting Engineer, 1313 North Capitol,
Indianapolis, Indiana, announce the
formation of their partnership, Carpen-
ter Ice Rink Floors, to carry on the
M. R. Carpentcr Monolithic Concrete
Floating Floor and Piping System
structures and to build floors for every
application in the field.

Recent Carpenter installations engi-
neered by Mr. Post are the Wollman
Memorial Rink, Central Park, New
York; Camhria County War Memorial
Building, Johnstown, Pennsylvania;
Sioux City Auditorium, Sioux City,
Iowa. Under construction are installa-
tions in the Denver Municipal Stadium,
Denver, Colorado; the Civic Audito-
rium, Butte, Montana; and the Onon-
daga County War Memorial Audito-
rium, Syracuse, New York.

Unique Life Preserver

Water Master Lifesaver, a vinylite
preserver which can be worn deflated
beneath swimming trunks until ready
for use or inflated before entering the
water, is being manufactured by Solar-
Tan, Incorporated, 1 School Street,
Yonkers, New York.

Invented by the company’s presi-
dent, Joseph Chillemi, the pocket-sized
lifesaver retails for approximately
$1.98 and is sold both as a “confidence
inspirer” for people learning to swim
and as “emergency insurance” for ex-
perienced swimmers. Weighing only
three ounces, it is patented as a com-
pletely effective device capable of sup-
porting the heaviest person in water.

Creative Handcraft Packets

Designed by Marguerite Ickis for
men in the armed services to carry in
their pockets, these packets contain a
piece of material, such as a piece of
leather four - by - twelve inches or a
block of soft pine, together with the
necessary individual tool or equip-
ment to make a project. The important
item in each kit is a detailed direction
sheet with step-by-step drawings and
suggestions for a number of articles
which can be made. A variety of ten
packets is now available. Write to
Universal Handicrafts Service, Incor-

porated, 1267 Sixth Avenue, New
York 19, for your catalog.

119

 

“Gabbit,” the Magic Rabbit

Carroll Colby, Coward-McCann, Incorporated, New
York. $1.50.

Carroll Colby has worked a bit of magic himself in

his delightful and simple way of telling and illustra-
ting the story of “Cabbit” and his magician friend.
Youngsters will be enchanted by the amusing rabbit who
decides to alter the routine of bcing pulled out (if a silk
hat—with results which amaze the magician and amuse
the boys and girls who come to see their show.

Here’s a book that will not only remain p0pular with
young readers for a long time, but will also make an
excellent selection for the storytelling hour for the lolli-
p0p brigade.

Finest In 1110 World
For The World's

Greatest Athletes

/ n i- I. W

I"!!! III!!! III m: IIIJJ’.‘
“our-clung: ecu-mun . n. Loans 3. no.

120

 

new Publications

Covering the Leisure-time Field

Fun Outdoors

Mary Louise Friebele, Frances C. Smith and Bernice Os-
ler Frissell. The Macmillan Company, New York. $1.95.

This is the latest book in The Sports Series of SUpple-

mentary readers by Frissell, Friebele and Smith and
is intended for fourth grade. As in the earlier books in
The Sports Series, however—Fun at the Playground,
Grade Two, and Fun in Swimming, Grade Three—it is’
written in the vocabulary of the grade below that for
which the book is intended. Thus it not only is an excel-
lent reader for the very beginning of the fourth grade,
but for the slower readers in upper grades as well. In
addition, it is a lively and interesting story book about
camping, out-of-doors activities and fun in a national
forest. It brings in camping techniques, crafts, some na-
ture study and prompts an interest in elementary science.
Kate Seredy’s delightful illustrations are scattered
through it in generous profusion.

Young Chad Seal of Los Angeles

Clarence M. Fink. The Story Book Press, Dallas, Texas.
$2.00.

Chad Seal, a resident of the Los Angeles Zoo, and his

friends, Bertram Bowser, Danny Flipperfoot, Peter
Penguin, Buster Badger and more, rhyme and riddle their
way through the forty-eight pages of this action-packed
story. It’s especially for the five-to-niners, but the adults
also will enjoy Bertram Bowser’s rhymes, such as:

“Things are going to the dogs
You hear the peeple say;
I often sigh and wonder why
Nothing comes my way.”

A dignified giraffe plays a heroic role in the great Hood
which overruns the zoo; the reputation of the Los Angeles
Zoo’s inhabitants as riddle-solvers is saved and there are
many other unusual and exciting adventures.

Storytellers will be able to use this book as source ma-
terial for many sittings and the characters can be carried
over into new and original plots. The youngsters probably
will want to construct some new predicaments for Chad

Seal and his friends.

RECREATION

Recreation Leadership Courses

Sponsored jointly by the National Recreation Association and local recreation departments

May, June, July 1951

HELEN DAUNCEY
Social Recreation

RUTH EIILERS
Social Recreation

ANNE LIVINGSTON
Social Recreation

MILDRED SCANLON
Social Recreation

FRANK STAPLES
Arts and Crafts

GRACE WALKER
Creative Recreation

Lexington, Kentucky
June 4-8

Toledo, Ohio

June 11-15

Huntington, West Virginia

June 18-21

Middletown, New York
June 25-27

White Plains, New York
June 28

Toledo, Ohio
June 4-8

Shepherdstown, West Virginia

J uly 16-20

San Antonio, Texas
May 7-11

New Orleans, Louisiana
May 14-17

Corpus Christi, Texas
May 21-24

Fort Worth, Texas
May 28-31

Waco, Texas

June 4-8

Salina, Kansas

June 11-15

Boulder, Colorado
July 23-August 24

Miami, Florida

May 7-11

Tampa, Florida

May 14-18

Pittslield, Massachusetts
June 18-22

White Plains, New York
June 26

New Britain, Connecticut
June 27-29

Florence, Alabama

July 9-13

Salina, Kansas

May 7-10

Niagara Falls, New York
May 21-June 1

Amherst, Massachusetts
June 23

Toledo, Ohio

June 4-15

Pontiac, Michigan

June 18, 19

White Plains, New York
June 27

Merom, Indiana
May 7-12
Pensacola, Florida
May 14-18

Dorchester County, Maryland

May 21-25

Toledo, Ohio

June 4-14

Detroit, Michigan

June 25, 26
Morristown, New Jersey
June 27, 28

Miss Anna S. Pherigo, Executive Director, Board of Park Com-
missioners, Gratz Park

Arthur G. Morse, Supervisor of Rccreation, 214 Safety Building

Marvin A. Lewis, Manager, Cabell County Recreation Board,
Field House

J. E. Huges, Director of Recreation, Recreation Commission

Miss Vivian Wills, Assistant Superintendent, Westchester County
Recreation, Room 242, County Office Building

Arthur G. Morse, Supervisor of Recreation, 214 Safety Building
Dr. Oliver S. lkenberry, Shepherd College

Miss Lou Hamilton, Director, Recreation Department, 706 Simp-
son Street
John Brechtel, Assistant Director of Recreation

William P. Witt, SUperintendent of Recreation, Box 1622

R. D. Evans, Superintendent, Fort Worth Recreation Department,
Public Recreation Board, 215 W. Vickery Boulevard
John Morrow, Superintendent of Recreation, City Hall

David A. Zook, Saperintendent of Recreation, 302 City Hall
Building

Miss Clare Small, Professor and Head, Department of Physical
Education for Women, University of Colorado

Dr. R. L. Fairing, General Extension Division, Siegel Building,
Gainesville
Dr. R. L. Fairing, General Extension Division, Siegel Building,
Gainesville

Vincent J. Hebert, SUperintendent of Parks and Recreation,
52 School Street "

Miss Vivian Wills, Assistant Superintendent, Westchester County
Recreation, Room 242, County Office Building ,. ‘
Joseph Hergstrom, Superintendent of Recreation, 327 City Hall

Mrs. Jessie Garrison Mehling, SUpervisor, Health and Physical Ed-
ucation, Department of Education, Montgomery 4

David A. Zook, Superintendent of Recreation, 302 City Hall
Building
Myron D. Hendrick, Director of Recreation, City Hall

Miss Ruth McIntire, Extension Specialist in Recreation, University
of Massachusetts

Arthur G. Morse, Supervisor of Recreation, 214 Safety Building“

David Ewalt, Director of Recreation, Parks and Recreation

Miss Vivian Wills, Assistant Superintendent, Westchester County
Recreation, Room 242, County Office Building

F. L. McReynolds, Associate in Rural Youth Work and Recrea-
tion, Agricultural Extension Service, Purdue University, Lafayette
Reubin Orr, Coordinator of Education in Escambia County

W. T. Boston, Saperintendent of Schools, Cambridge, Maryland
Arthur G. Morse, Supervisor of Recreation, 214 Safety Building
Irwin Shaw, Executive Director, Fresh Air Society, 250 Lafayette

Street West ..
Gerald R. Griffin, Supervisor, Recreation Department

Attendance at training courses conducted by National Recreation Association leaders is usually Open to all who wish to attend.
For details as to location of the course, content, registration procedure and the like, communicate with the sponsors of the

courses as listed above.

i “The bonds we bought For our
 ~ countryé defense boughf and

helped equip our term i0

   
    
    
 
 
 
    
   

, \‘ MR. AND MRS. CHARLEY l.. WHATLEY OF CUTHBERT, GA.
\..
’~ CAN TELL You—41's PRACTICAL As war As

\
M.
I PATRIOTIC TO BUY BONDS FOR DEFENSE

Mr. Whatley inspects a beehive
on his 202-acre Georgia farm.
“My wife and I wouldn’t own a
farm, clear, today,” he says, “if it
weren’t for U. S. Savings Bonds.
They’re the best way to save.”

   
 
 
 

  
  
  
    
 

“$4,000 in bonds bought us our farm and
house, more bonds went for a new truck,
refrigerator and electric range. We’re still
holding about $1,800 in bonds. Everybody
should buy U. S. Savings Bonds!”

Charley Whailey says, “Mrs. Whatley and
I joined the Payroll Savings Plan in 1943.
Our pay averaged about $40 a week apiece
and we put about a quarter of it into

bonds. We had saved $6,925 by 1950.”

  
  

The Wha’rleys' slvry can be your sloryjoo!

Your dream can come true, just as the You’ll be providing security not only for
Whatleys’ did. Start now! It’s easy! Just yourself and your family, but for the free
take these three simple steps: way of life that’s so important to us all.

'I. Put saving first before you even draw
your pay.

2. Decide to save a regular amount system-
atically. Even small sums saved this way

 

become a large sum amazingly soon! ' U. s. SAVINGS BONDS

3. Start savmg by Signing up today in the

Payroll Savings Plan where you work or the AR E DEFENSE BONDS-
Bond-A-Month Plan where you bank. BUY THEM REGULARLY!

Your government does not pay for this advertisement. It is donated by this publication _in cooperation with
The Advertising Council and the M agaztne Publishers of America as a public servwe.

