    
 
 

"' _ .I r |-_ n..."- I. _
Jacksonville, Hahn-i I a' 1.1.. if ELI‘EV

Henry Pfeiffer ‘ ' I ~. 2 m '1 _
h’qacI‘./IL‘-'I'ty C“ ’- ¥ .

 

   

RECREATION

is one of the fields in w/aic/a
SCHOOL ACTIVITIES

has been serving the schools of America
for twenty years. Under the editorship of
Dr. Harry C. McKown, well-known au-
thority on extracurricular activities, this

monthly magazine promotes the following
interests:

ACTIVITY PROGRAMS — Current thought of leaders in the field of democratic group activities.
SCHOOL ASSEMBLIES — An assembly program for each week of the school year.

CLASS PLAYS—Help in selecting and staging dramatic productions.

CLASS ORGANIZATIONS — Directions for the successful guidance of school groups.
FINANCING ACTIVITIES — Suggestions for financing student functions.

ATHLETICS 4 News and ideas on late developments in intra-mural and interscholastic sports.
DEBATE — Both sides of the current high school debate question.

DEPARTMENT CLUBS — Instructions and aids in the directing of school clubs of all types.
HOME ROOMS — Ideas and plans for educative home room projects.

PEP ORGANIZATIONS — Devices for stimulating loyalty and school spirit.

STUDENT PUBLICATIONS — Guidance in the production of school newspaper and yearbook.
PARTIES AND BANQUETS —Suggestions for educative and wholesome social activities.
STUDENT GOVERNMENT — Sound direction in development of (student sense of responsibility.
MISCELLANEOUS ACTIVITIES — Music. commencement. point systems, etc.

Subscription Price  Subscribe Now

School Activities Publishing Co.

1515 LANE STREET “ TOPEKA, KANSAS

 

with  Suni-SoiI-Sel

 

GULF SANI-SOIL-SET is the practical answer to

your duSt annoyance problems. Here are a few of

the many good reasons why it will pay you to in-
veStigate this eHicient duSt-control medium now:

HIGHLY EFFECTIVE—Gulf Sani-Soil-Set eliminates dust
annoyance completely immediately after application.
No long waiting periods are necessary before the ground
18 ready for use. The dust allaying effect is accomplished
by the action of the compound in adhering to and weigh—
ing down dust particles.

 

LONG LASTING—Because of its extremely low volatility
and insolubility in water, Gulf Sani-Soil-Set remains
effective for long periods. One application per season or
year is usually sufficient.

PETROLEUM AND ITS PRODUCTS

 

APRIL 1951

EASILY APPLIED—Gulf Sani-Soil-Set is free-flowing,

easy and pleasant to use. It can be applied by hand-
sprinkling or by sprinkling truck, and spreads quickly.

SAVES MAINTENANCE EXPENSE—Gulf Sani-Soil-Set

minimizes dust annoyance and expense in near-by
houses, stores, and laundries.

Write, wire or phone your nearest Gulf oHice
today and ask for a demonStration of the advan-
tages of this modern proven duSt allayer. If you
have n0t yet received a copy of the booklet which
gives further information on this quality Gulf
product, mail the coupon below. Gulf Oil Corpo-
ration ' Gulf Refining Company, Gulf Building,
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

I. ________________________ _.

Gulf Oil Corporation ° Gulf Refining COmpany . R
3-SZ Gulf Building, Pittsburgh 30, Pa.

Please send me, without obligatiOn, a copy of the booklet, "Gulf
Sani-Soil-Set—the modern. proven agent for controlling dust."

Name .........................................................................  ...................... -. 

Title ......................................................................... ..

Address .................................................. -. . .... ..

at leading gym from comma-coast Ilse c/aoiee 2': Porter
ing’ron U. its Po rten Too.

     
   
   

'6‘.

#kit‘

'a“.
-.—-v-' '

- —'—_.
“VI-minut— —M—_"d-_

A Porter stodium-ty e backstop thot hoists to the roof,
57 feet above the foor, is used in the giant field house we“ Coast, :53“ C03“, all around the map-"31'

of the University of Washington, at Seattle. The Porter ' ’ ‘
211.3 Plate Glass Bockboord is extended 23 feet from the mo“ everywhere baSketball .15 p laye‘?’ you 11 find
uprights, over a portable plowing floor. Porter backstop and gymnasmm equipment. Not
only at the University of Washington, but at
countless Other universities, schools, clubs and
community centers, "the choice is Porter.” De-
pendable equipment plus seasoned installation
I! ,} ! '
know-how are two reasons. You 11 find the
Porter people pleasant to do business with, too.

Write today for catalogand full information.

CONSULT OUR ENGINEERS

Whether your problem is equipping I
new building or adding equipment to
an old building. you’ll find Porter's
engineering staE' helpful. Years of ex-
perience qualify them to counsel you
wisely. No obligation.

 

The entire structure hoists to the roof to cleor the field
house floor for indoor baseball, boxing and other oc-
tivities. Theodesi n of this unique backstop provides a
completely rigid ockboord for accurote play.

  
    
 
 

m... E. PORTER

Manufacturers of Gymnasium,

CORPORATION Ottawa, Illinois

Playground and Swimming Pool Equipment

CHICAGO OFFICE: 654 ll. Michigan An, Chicago ll. PIIOIII: SUporinr 1-1262 HEW YORK OFFICE: II W. 42nd St, New York '16, Phone: {Ongacre Hm

RECREATION

APRIL 1951

 

Editor, JOSEPH PRENDERCAST
Managing Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON
Editorial Assistant, SONIA RACHLIN
Business Manager, ROSE J AY SCHWARTZ
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Recreation Administration, GEORGE BUTLER
Program Activities, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

 

Vol. XLV

On the Cover

Go ahead and pitch! This youngster is ready for
anything. And why not! While having the time Of
his lifc playing America’s favorite game, he’s learn-
ing to be alert, agile and able. Through playground
activities, the citizen of tomorrow is absorbing the
rules of fair play—and enjoying every minute of it.
Photo, courtesy of Long Beach, California, Recrea-
tion Commission.

PhotO Credits

Page 5, Blackstone Studios, Incorporated, New York;
page 9, Larry Junc, Maplewood, New Jersey; page
16, center right, Evansville Recreation Commission,
Indiana; page 19, Jasper Nutter, Long Beach, Cali-
fornia; page 20, Miami Beach News Bureau, Florida;
page 28, upper left, Ben Schilf, New York; upper
right, Long Beach Recreation Commission, Califor-
nia; lower right, Daily Progress, Charlottesville,
Virginia; page 29, lower left, Waukesha Daily Free-
man, Wisconsin; lower center, Ben SchiiI, New
York; pages 37 and 38, Herb Topy Photo Servicc,

Columbus, Ohio; page 50, lower right, Upstate News,
New York.

Next Month

In Observance of National Hospital Day, May tenth,
this issue will carry an article on the recreation pro-
gram in Veterans Administration Hospitals. Miss
Agnes Haaga, Director of Creative Dramatics at
the University of Washington, has written excellent
suggestions for creative dramatics in the recreation
program; and an article on family vacations in state
parks will make you want to pack your kit at once!
A revision of “Suggestions for Recreation Training
Programs in Colleges and Universities” will be in—

cluded.

Price 35 Cents No. 1

 

  
 
  
    
   
 
 
 
   
   
   
  
  
 

RECREATION is published monthly except July
and August by the National Recreation Associa-
tion, a service organization supported by voluntary
contributions, at 815 Fourth Avenue, New York
10, New York; is on file in public libraries and is
indexed in the Readers’ Guide. Subscriptions $8.00
a year. Canadian agency, G. R. Welch Company,
Ltd., 1149 King Street West, Toronto 1, Ontario;
Canadian subscription rate $8.85. Re-entered as
second-class matter April 25, 1950, at the Post
Office in New York, New York, under Act of
March 8, 1879. Acce tance for mailing at special
rate of postage provi ed for in Section 1108, Act
of October 8, 1917, authorized May 1, 1924.

Advertising and Production Office: Jones Press,
Fifth and Fifth South, Minneapolis 15, Minnesota.

Space Representatives: Robert Edgell, 104 East
Fortieth Street, New York 16, New York; Mark
Minahan, 168 North Michigan Avenue, Chicago,
Illinois; Keith H. Evans, 8757 Wilshire Boulevard,
Los Angeles 5, California.

COpyright, 1951, by the
National Recreation Association, Incorporated
Printed in the U.S.A.

APRIL 1951

THE MAGAZINE

OF THE RECREATION

 

MOVEMENT

CONTENTS

General Features

Hosteling Is What Hosteling Does (editorial),
Ben W. Miller, PH.D. - - - -

Recreation Comments - . - - -

I Am a Child (poem), Percy R. Hayward - - -
First Impressions - - - - - - -
Knuckle Down, Vincent DeP. Farrell - - - -
A Recreation Leader Rates High - - _ - -
When America Moves tO the Playgrounds - - -
Television on the Playground, Henri BOb Russell -

A Community Takes a Hand, Daniel L. Reardon -

Administration

Wading Pools . . . An Asset or a Liability?
George D. Butler - - . . .

Standards for Children’s Summer Programs - -
Resident Camping in Nine Cities - - - -

Films Teach Playground Leaders About People,
Rex M. Johnson - - - . ..

Operating Policies at Public Swimming POOls in Indiana
Dramatization Of Playground Situations - - -

Program Activities

An Imaginative Playground Project . . . and Its Results

Who’d Have Thought It? Anne Chilton - -
Bowling on the Green, Catherine Sublett - - -

The Hobbymobilc-A Recreation Center on Wheels
Lloyd A. Rochford - - - .. . .

Take Your Oldsters Out-Of-Doors,
Ellen Jean Dilger and Beatrice Spong -- - -

Don’t Give Up—Adapt! - - - . . -
Games on the Playground, Helen M. Dauncey - -
Here Come the Puppeteers! Margaret D. Blickle - —
Creative Recreation, Grace Walker - - - -

Recipes for Fun—
Nature Adventuring and Arts and Crafts - - -

How to DO It! Frank A. Staples - - . . -
P.T.A. Play Program, Mrs. Donald E. Stier - -

9

Regular Features
Things You Should Know - - - . . .
Personnel - - - - - - . . .
Recreation Market News - - - .. . .
New Publications - - - - - - -
Recreation Leadership Courses - - Inside Back CO

@0001

10
23
24
28
35
50

14
20
22

30
39
42

12
13

19

25
27
32
36
40

45
49
52

7
48

54
56

1361'

3

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION

A Service Organization Supported by Voluntary Contributions

Executive Director, JOSEPH PRENDERCAST

OFFICERS

OTTO T. MALLERY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Chairman of the Bosrd
PAUL MOORE. JR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..First Vice-President
MRS. OenEN L. MILLS. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Seeond Vice-President
SUSAN M. LEE. .Third Vice-President and Secretsry Oi the Bosrd
AORIAN M. MASSII . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Treasurer
CUSTAYUS T. KIRBY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Treasurer Emeritus
JOSEPH PaznoEceAST . . . . . . . . . ..1. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Secretary

    

' BOARD OF DIRECTORS

F. W. H. AOAMS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..New York. N. Y. MRS. CHARLES V. Hchox . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Michigsn City. Ind.

F. GREcc BEMIS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Boaton.Mass. Mas. JoIIN D. JAMESON . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Bellport. N. Y.

Mass. RanR'r Woons BLISS. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Wsshington. D. C. SUSAN M. LEE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..New York. N. Y.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Jackaonville. Fla. OTTO T. MALLERY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Philadelphis. Pa.

WILLIAM H. DAVIS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .New York. N. Y. CARL E. MILLIREN . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Augusts. Me.

HARRY P. DAYISON . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .New York. N. Y. MRS. OenEN L. MILLS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Woodbury. N. Y.

MRS. PAUL GALLAeHER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Omsha. Nebr. PAUL MOORE. JR.. . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . ..Jeraey City. N. J.

ROSERT GARRETT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Baltimore. Md. JOSEPH PRENnERcAST . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..-.New York. N. Y.

ROIERT GRANT. 3rd . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Oyater Bsy. N. Y. MRS. SIcMUND STERN . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. San Francisco. Calif.

AUSTIN E. CRIEEITHS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Seattle. Wash. GRANT TITSWOITH . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Noroton. Conn.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .. . . . .Fitchburg. Msss. J. C. WALSH . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Yonkers. N. Y.

FREOERICII. M. WARaURc  . . . . . . . .  . . . . . ..New York. N. Y.

m

Executive Director’s Ollice
GEORGE E. DICRIE THOMAS E. RIVERS
ROSE JAY SCHWARTZ ‘ ARTHUR WILLIAMS

WALDO R. HAINstRTH

COrrespondence and Consuitation
Service
VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN
GERTRUDE BORCHARD LORAINE WILLIAMS

Defense-Related Activities
GEORGE T. ADAMS HELENA G. HOYT

Editorial Department
DOROTHY DONALOSON SONIA RACHLIN

Personnel Service
WILLARO C. SUTHERLANO ALEREO B. JENSEN
MARY GuaERNAT

HEADQUARTERS STAFF

Research Depsrtment

DAvID J. DUBOIS
ELIZAaETH CLIFTON

GEORGE D. BUTLER
MURIEL MCGANN

Work wi th Voiunteers

E. BEATRICE STEARNS
MARY QUIRIt MARGARET DANKWORTH

FRANCES WHITE LEE

Field Department

CHARLES E. REEO

DOROTHY FORGANe JAMES A. MADISON

Service to Stan-I. . . . .RoaLRT R. GAMRLE

Area: and Facilities—Planning and Surrey:
H. C. HUTCHINS ALAN B. BURRITT

Katherine F. Barker Memorial
Srcrttary for Women and Girl:
HELEN M. DAUNCEY

Industrial Recreation. . . . . . C. E. BREwER

Recreation Leadership Training Courrrr

RUTH EHLERs ANNE LIVINGSTON
MILDRED SCANLON FRANK A. STAPLES
GRACE WALKER

 

New England Distriet

DISTRICT REPRESENTATIVES

Southern District

Southwest District

R'c"‘““’ 5° “rum”: "  Portland' Mc' MISS MARION PREECE. . .. Alexandria. Va. "WOI-D VAN 311505“ - - - - ' -- Dana" Te"
Middle Atlantie Diatriet RALPH VAN FLEET . . . . . .Clearwater. Fla a
JOHN W, F5031- _ _ _ _ . . . , ,East Orange, N, 1. WILLIAM M. HAY . . . . . . . . .Nsshville. Tenn. P"‘ c Northwea' Diatric"

Own: A. NESAITT.... .. .New York. N. Y.
Great Lakes Distriet

North Central District

WILLARD H. SHUMAIID . Seattle. Wesh.

Paeifie Southwest Distriet

 

JOHN J. COLLIER . . . . . . . . . . . Toledo. Ohio ARTHUR TODD . . . . . . . . . ..Ksnsss City. Mo.
RanRT L. HORNEY . . . . . . . . .Madison. Wis. I‘lAl'tOLO LATHBOP . . . . . . . . . . Denver. Colo. LYNN S. ROONEY. . . . . Los Angeles. Cslii.
Afiiliate Membership Active Associate Membership Contributors

Afliliate membership in the National
Recreation Association is open to sll non-
profit private and publie organizations
whose function is whOlly or primarily the
provision or promotion of recreation aerv-
ices or which include recreation as an im-
portant part of their total program and
. whoae cooperation in the work of the asso-
' ciation wouid. in the Opinion of the associa-
tion‘s Board Oi Directors. lurther the ends
oi the national recreation movement.

Active associate membership in the
National Recreation Association is open to
all individuals who ara aclively engaged
on a full-time or part-time employed basis
or as volunteers in a nonprofit private or
public recreation organization and whose
cooperation in the work of the association
would. in the Opinion of the association’s
Board of Directors. further the ends of the
national recreation movement.

The continuation of the work of the
National Recreation Association from year
to year is made possible by the aplendicl
cooperation of several hundred volunteer
sponsors throughout the country. and the
generous contributions of thousands of
supportera Of this movement to bring health.
happiness and creative living to the boys
and girls and the men and women of
America. If you would like tO join in the
support of this movement. you msy send
your contribution direct to the association.

_————-—_————_—___.

The National Recreation Association is a nation-
wide. nonprofit. nonpolitical and nonsectarian civic
organization, established in 1906 and supported by
voluntary contributions, and dedicated to the service
of all recreation executives. leaders and agencies.

public and private. to the end that every child in
America shall have a place to play in safety and
that every person in America. young and Old. shall
have an Opportunity for the best and most satisfy-
ing use of his expanding leisure time.

For further information regarding the anode-two’s Semi-cits our! iitEIZ‘IDETShip, piea'se write to the
Executive Director. National Recreation Association. 315 Fourth Avenue, New Y or}: I0, New Y ark.

 

RECREATION

HOSTELING 7a

WHAT HOSTELING Dow

HE NUMBER ONE emphasis in rec-
Treation should not be upon facil-
ities or program or organization or ad-
ministration—but upon people.

We are dependent upon other human
beings to a degree far greater than
ever before. The attitudes of peOple,
the meaning in life that they can dis-
cover together, the sound motivation
that they can recognize and test in
broadening experiences are matters of
great importance.

Yet social forces have resulted in
the destruction of many primary

 

an editorial by Ben W. Miller, Ph.D.

tion during the next century as the de-
velopment of the common school has
done during the past century. Even
barring the disaster of another total
war, there is likely to be no early re-
turn to “normal” peacetime conditions.
The continuing tensions and strains of
a war environment demand an even
greater need to use our leisure morc

r

ateaesesessssssssssssssssseeeeavseaesaeeeaass -

Because of narrow back margins this volume
has been sewed to cords.
advertising can be removed when this type of

sewing is usedm4w du~-//- tit—Lacs asch
NEW METHOD BOOK BINDERY. Inc.

evsaasesseessaasesesessesaeae*****s***s*ssss*

lllLlUD auu nauuua nuun uuunn uunxu;

through persons. Every promising
avenue must be explored and, if found
worthy, used.

Youth and young adults, especially,
are groping instinctively for personal
development. They are seeking vig-
orous, purposeful, interest-compelling
activity—activity which helps them to
sustain faith and confidence in them-
selves and in life. It is a real chal-
lenge to recreation leaders to hold their
interest because of their lengthening
period of dependence, their difiiculty
in transition adolescence to
adulthood and in distinguishing and
defining a satisfactory and stable role
for themselves in society.

Good recreation, meeting a basic

from

human need not dimmed by war, can
do as much to lift the level of civiliza-

APRIL 1951

No covers or
S
51
I-
a”... --.-.......-.__._._. __ _____ _____d

as life itself. Just as the sources of
life and happiness have no boundaries,
so recreation must be freed completely
from any narrow limits.

Recreation must be more and more
concerned with social living and in-
tegration——~a continual awareness of
cause and effect. Such emphasis means
concern for the ability to adjust one’s
interests and life to the interests and
life of all others. It means identifica-
tion of one’s self with others. It in-
cludes relationships with one’s own
conscience, with one’s family, com-
munity, with nature and all mankind.
But the degree to which we do this
will depend upon the intelligence with
which we guide our recreational ef-
forts. Necessarily, they must be much
broader, much freer, much more dy-

namic and adaptive in the future than
they have been in the past.

In such a setting, hosteling meets
the test of being an excellent educa-
tion-recreation activity. It is a practi-
cal and inexpensive program of travel
and recreation unduplicated by any
existing organization and Open for use
as an activity resource by all com-
munity groups. As in education or
other types of recreation, its contribu-
tion to the social scene cannot be told
adequately in figures. Its highest val-
ues lie in the intangibles.

Hosteling embodies the ideals, tech-
niques and enthusiasms of worthwhile
recreation. It is as far removed from
the common gloomy reform youth
movements as sunshine is from rain.
It is no cult of the simple life. It is
not a crusade; and it is simple and
direct in its appeal. Its content is first-
hand experience, learning by doing,
group planning and problem-solving.
lt Opens new vistas to youth in an
unique program that not only feeds
imagination and love of adventure,
but encourages initiative and personal
responsibility. In its round-the-clock
rhythm of work, rest and play, it helps
to develop a balance of individual
freedom and social responsibility and
to demonstrate in practice the rela-
tionships of one’s own efforts not only
to one’s own well-being, but also to
the welfare of others. It contributes
to the satisfaction of fundamental hu-
man appetites———such as the hungers

MR. MILLER was formerly executive di-
rector of American Youth Hostels, Inc.

5

for purposeful self-expression, creativ-
ity, friendship, belonging to a group,
recognition and c00peration.

There is in hosteling much flexibil-
ity and ~a minimum of rules, regula-
tions or requirements. Regimentation
or mass conformity is taboo. Behavior
is guided largely by adherence to the
ideals and customs of hosteling—prac-
tices which all hostelers agree to fol-
low and which have been self-imposed,
as they developed over the years.

Participation may be along the lines
of one’s own interests, by one’s self,
in a family group, in the company of
close friends or in a group with sim-
ilar interests from any bonafide or-
ganization or agency. It can be upon a
self-directed or upon an organized ac-
tivity basis, with leadership of a gen-
eral supervisory type, or of an organ-
izational and specialized kind.

Hosteling offers a year-round recre-
ational opportunity at the different
periods of free time. It can reach
a wide age range and can easily be a
life-long expression of leisure-time in-
terest. It is one of the all-round co-
educational activities in which there
is happy c00peration between the
sexes. It can be equally appealing to
rural and urban youth.

Hosteling is not a spectator sport,
but it is healthful exercise. What it of-
fers is neither soft nor easy. lts simple
and often rugged life demands en-
ergy and self-reliance. Yet, hostelers
go at their own leisurely gait and can
adapt the energy requirements to their
physical needs and capacities.

Hosteling is a great reconciler of
the urban folk with rural folk, of one
class with another, of the old with the
young, of one pe0ple with another,
and—perhaps most important of all
—-—of one’s self with one’s environment.
It teaches pe0ple perception—to see
what they go by, to understand more
fully what they see. Hosteling puts

youth upon their feet and takes them
out of a cut-flower civilization. It puts
them into contact with the sun, the
air, the soil and the struggle upon
which so much of our nation’s vital-
ity is based. They get away from the
neon lights, the superficialities and
froth of life; away from the brick and
cement foundation which is poor soil
for physical, moral and spiritual
growth. Their view of the country-
side is not a fleeting train or car win-
dow blur. It is the genuine apprecia.
tion of farm and woodland, of people
to whom the land is home and of the
life that is lived there.

In its close group life, it provides
the emotional release of living to-
gether—acquiring social habits, exer-
cising leadership, cooking meals, ac.
cepting personal responsibility for
one’s share of cleaning and joining in
the community activities of the hostel.
In the democratic hostel environment
there is the sharing of chores and com-
ing to grips with the fundamental les-
sons in domestic economy lacking in
the daily lives of so many youth.
Group feeling and ties of friendship
result from the common eXperience
which crosses religious, racial and
economic differences. The benefits to
be derived are for the overprivileged,
as well as for the underprivileged—
perhaps more. Social distinctions dis-
appear and youth value each other for
their basic worth as individuals.

The horizons of hosteling are world-
wide and its scope international. From
Central Europe, where the movement
was founded in 1910, it has spread to
twenty-five countries. The membership
now totals over one million, with four
million overnight guests welcomed an-
nually in 2,340 hostels. Membership
cards issued by any of the hosteling as-
sociations are accepted at every recog-
nized youth hostel throughout the
world. The International Youth Hostel

Federation is a success in being one
of the relatively few organizations to
achicve an international character. As
McCall’s Magazine recently stated,
“Any teen-age boy or girl with a bike
and a membership card has, wc think,
the world by the handlebars.”

Participating members constitute a
widely-distributed group who have
shared with many others their ex-
periences in international living.
Through friendly association and lei-
surely travel with the youth of other
countries, they have gained insight
and deep-rooted friendships that are,
unfortunately, denied most travelers
abroad. Greeted everywhere 'as citizens
of this commonwealth of youth, their
outlook has gained wider dimensions.
They are drawn together by the com-
mon language and customs of hostel-
ing. Even those differences in native
tongues do not seem great since in-
terests are focused upon similarities
rather than upon differences. Hostel-
ers observe the ripe and mellow vir-
tues of older civilizations of older peo-
ple—their love of home and family,
their joy in play, their loyalty to
neighborhoods, the love of beauty and
companionship. Only when our in-
creasing travel to unknown places
brings back some of these fine things
is it serving its real purpose.

As an opportunity to broaden hori-
zons, personalize vital problcms and
lay intellectual and cultural founda-
tions of understanding, hosteling pays
ample dividends by assisting more
young people to become self-reliant,
community-minded and world-minded
citizens. Youth, given such an ineXpen-
sive opportunity to roam with a pur-
pose, will carry on and travel far.
Recreation leaders, analyzing youths’
enthusiastic reSponse to the question,
“What is hosteling?” will invariably
find ample justification in the reply
“Hosteling is what hosteling does!”

 

“Heaven in another world is all right, but important, too, is a little of life, com-

radeship, creation, fulfillment, achievement, joy, happiness every day.”

——Howard S. Brancher.

RECREATION

 

° REGARDING THE USE OF CHLORINE
in swimming pools, the representative
of the National Production Authority
in charge of the chlorine program ad-
vises that Order M-31, regulating the
distribution of chlorine for treatment
of drinking water and sewage disposal,
does not affect swimming pools. No
permits or allocations are required. He
states that the Operators of swimming
pools are free to place orders for chlo-
rilIe with their regular distributors.

0 Low CITY TAXES are not the chief
attraction for industries seeking new
plant locations. According to the
American Society of Planning Officials,
the offer of low tax assessments often
discredits a city which is trying to
induce an industry to locate within its
bounds. However, high on the list of
things needed by a community to at-
tract industry, as suggested by indus-
trial representatives, are “adequate
recreation facilities and places of con-
gregation where people can play or
visit together.”

0 A DRAMATIC EXAMPLE of the pos-
sible effects, on the local level, of the
pr0posed increase of the national labor
force to meet the projected emergency
production program is the Savannah
River Project of the Atomic Energy
Commission. Here, three thousand five
hundred pe0ple are being displaced
from a rural area to make way for the
construction of a new atomic plant.
Thirty-five thousand temporary con-
struction workers will be brought in to
do the job (eight thousand this year).
This will inean thc immigration of
over one hundred thousand people into

APRIL 1951

7W @ax 55044665 Km . .

 

an area of two hundred fifty thousand
acres with a present p0pulation of two
hundred thousand.

Imagine what this will mean from
the point of view of public recreation
facilities! There will be other big proj-
ects, but, in addition, we must not for-
get that even a small, new defense plant
in a small community will put an extra
burden on the local public recreation
facilities. As we all know, one of the
significant recreation deve10pments in
World War II was thc tremendous ex-
tent to which industries turned to rec-
reation to maintain and increase pro-
duction through increase in the effi-
ciency of the individual worker and
reduction in turn-over and absenteeism.

.THE OVER-ALL ESTIMATE or MA-
TERIAL REQUIREMENTS of municipal
park and recreation departments for
1951 and 1952, as submitted to the
National Production Authority through
the Federal Security Agency by the
National Recreation Association (see
page 535, March RECREATION) to-
taled thirty-eight million dollars—of
which almost thirteen million was for
maintenance equipment, over five mil-
lion for supplies and equipment, al-
most three million for construction
other than buildings and sixteen mil-
lion for buildings.

0 THE MAYBANK-SPENCE DEFENSE
HOUSING and Community Facilities
and Service Bill, introduced into Con-
gress in January, is “to assist the pro-
vision of housing and community fa-
cilities and services in connection with
the national defense.”

The bill declares it to be a matter

of Congressional policy “that where
military personnel or civilian workers
required for the carrying out of na-
tional defense activities being, or to
be, undertaken in any area or locali-
ties, or other additions to the local
labor force are required for such pur-
posc, housing and community facili-
ties and service for such persons and
their families represent essential de-
fense needs, and that the defense and
security of the nation, therefore, re-
quire that housing and community fa-
cilities and services needed to support
national defense activities shall be pro-
vided in sufficient time to avoid de-
laying or impeding such activities.”

The bill provides that “wherever
practicable, existing private and public
community facilities shall be utilized
or such facilities shall be extended, en-
larged, or equipped in lieu of con-
structing new facilities” and that such
“community facilities and services
shall be maintained and operated by
officers and employees of the United
States only if, and to the extent that,
appropriate local public and private
agencies are, in the Opinion of the ad-
ministrator, unable or unwilling to
maintain or operate such community
facilities and services adequately with
their own personnel and with grants
or payments authorized to be made”
by this bill. Hearings are now being
held on the bill.

0 MINIMUM WAGE STANDARDS for sev-
enty-five thousand workers in New
York State’s amusement and recreation
industry have been ordered by the
State Labor Department. The directive
goes into effect on April 22, when the
State Minimum Wage Law will cover
eight industries and 1,100,000 workers
in low-paid fields.

For the entire industry, a minimum
of seventy-five cents per hour has been
established, although the order permits
exceptions to this rate. Employees di-
rectly affected include bat boys, movie
cashiers, caddies, pin boys; motion pic-
ture cleaners, porters, nIatrons, ticket
takers, doormen and ushers; ball chas-
crs, scoreboard boys and messengers
in professional Sports activities; beach
chair, umbrella and locker room at-
tendants at beaches and pools and ush-
ers at commercial sports exhibitions.

7

RECREATION

 

“Whither ‘Western’ Square Dance?”

Sirs:

I feel that this article is biased and
unfair in its criticism of so-called
“western” dancing. In the first place,
it tries to make a comparison between
the East and the West, which cannot
be done justly. The heavily-populated
areas of the East, with so many who
are new to this country, offer a differ-
ent picture from the West, which prin-
cipally is settled by children of the
early pioneers. We do not have the
large halls and outdoor courts to ac-
commodate classes and, therefore, limit
our participants to smaller accommo-

dations. Small groups of fifty couples

here are as suitable as the large groups
of thousands in the East. They def-
initely make for more sociability and
a “know-your-neighbor” feeling.

. . . The club idea is no more urban
than the Grange, country sewing circle
and many other rural organizations
which bring together pe0ple who have
common interests. Here it assures the
committee that enough money will be
in the “pot” to meet the expenses of the
year, since no clubs are subsidized by
outside agencies. They are run by com-
mittecs which still adhere to the demo-
cratic way of living, and the caller and
teacher answer to the wishes of the
committee.

There are probably places in this
country where some callers and teach-
ers like to be considered first in every-
thing. That is only natural. Every or-
ganization has its show-offs, and it
seems to be a trait about which little
can be done. They do not alarm me be-
cause society takes care of them.

. . . I wonder how much “western”

dancing the writer of the article has
done or with what western groups he
has worked? It is true with most
people that they do not like what they
cannot do. Square dancing reccives
its greatest criticism from those whose
“feet are set in concrete.” I have no-
ticed, and particularly is this true of
the men, that once people start, they
become its greatest addicts.

Why is there so much criticism of
the swing, the whirl, the twirl and
other movements which may bring
genuine joy to the ones doing them?
As long as the pattern of the dance
is not hindered, why compare those
who get fun from swinging twicc to
those who are capable of swinging only
once? Nothing was said about the poor
dud who slows down the entire dance
because of his slow coordination. He is
just as much of a menace to square
dancing as those who overdo it.

. . . Why, too, should the costume
come under such careful scrutiny? If
one feels his best in a fancy shirt or
the women feel prettied up in their
long dresses, why should anyone carc
as long as they personally get joy
from wearing them? A good dancer
ncver allows the costume to hinder his
performance. If the lovely long dresses
of the ladies hinder some other danc-
ers on the twirls, probably you’ve over-
sold your house and you should get
larger quarters or not allow so many
present. I have never known dress to
keep anyone from dancing if he really
wants to dance.

No one section should say that
what is done in its area should be done
throughout the country. When we make

everyone . . . , in gcneral, do the same
thing in the same way at the same
time, we are going to kill squarc danc-
ing. Why cut everyone in the country
out of the salnc cookie cutter?

If one could see or participate in
one of our “western” dances, with thc
bright-colored shirts, the beautiful
long, flowing dresses, the intricate stcps
and patterns performed with ease and
grace, he would come again and again,
as many do.

E. S. HENDERSON,
Park Board Supcrvisor
of Recreation, Spokanc

(Article appeared in. RECREATION,
November 1950.)

A Plea

Sirs:

If, when walking down John Street
South in Hamilton, Ontario, Canada,
you chanced to glance through a large
picture window in a rather old build-
ing, you would be rewarded with a
very lovely interior picture. Facing the
south wall sits a white-haired gentle-
man of some sevcnty or morc years,
strumming on a piano (also of ancient
vintage . . . and behind him sit, at
small tables, about twenty ladies and
gentlemen about his own age. Some
are intently playing cards; some,
checkers; and some are just chatting.
They may have felt their seventy and
eighty odd years whcn they entered,
but now their years appear to have
dr0pped away and they are young
again.

Later in the afternoon, a couple of
Junior Leaguers servc their gucsts
with tea and cookies. Between four
and live, you will meet thesc ladics
and gentlemen walking down in pairs
and groups, faces bright, talking and
laughing. Before this “Scnior Club”
was organized, thcir afternoons were
mostly spent in small, back rooms,
looking at four dingy walls, feeling un-
loved and unwantcd.

More of these centers are needed for
pensioners to make thcir last days
happy and to give a lift to their morale.
Youth is so well looked after these
days that the aged arc sometimes for-
gottcn and neglected now that their
incomes are depleted.

“HAMILTONIAN,”

Hamilton,
Ontario, Canada

RECREATION

APRIL 1951

 

I am a child. How I came I know not.
All the world waits for my coming. I am curious; I am interested.
All the earth watches with interest to I am the child.

see what I shall become. You hold in your hand my destiny.
Civilization hangs in the balance. You determine largely whether I shall
For what I am, the world of tomor- succeed or fail.
row will be. Give me, I pray you, things that make
I am the child. for happiness.
I have come into your world about Train me, I beg you, that I may be
which I know nothing. a blessing to the world.
Why I came I know not; Percy R. Hayward

Reprinted through courtesy of Children’s Religion and the author.

   
   

Would 0 first visit to
your playgrounds bring
forth a report like this?

VERYONE was most friendly and cooperative during
E my unexpected visit to Memphis, Tennessee. Upon
arrival I was introduced to most of the suPervisors who,
like everyone else, were most interested in our coming
congress and in the person who is to take Miss Preece’s
place. Mrs. Essie Hopping, the supervisor of arts and
crafts, was delegated to show me the playgrounds.

One of my earliest impressions was how attractive
everybody looked in his or her starched white uniform.
Later I noticed how these uniforms “stood out” on any
playground, making it possible at a glance to locate the
person or persons in charge. All playground workers
wear them. All workers are under civil service regula-
tions for the first time.

The second impression was the prestige carried by the
ofiicial markings on the vehicles, which designated them
as belonging to the City Park Commission, Memphis,
Tennessee.

Other outstanding features on the playgrounds were
the great number and the attractiveness of the swim-
ming and wading pools and the eye-catching bulletin
boards which were, for the most part, done in red, white
and blue and not only advertised the program, but ap-
pealed for a safe holiday. Most of the playgrounds were

R
On July 3, 1950, Miss Mildred Sconlon, one of the new staff

members of the NRA, was sent to Memphis for one day, as part
of her "orientation." Her visit resulted in this unedited report.

10

_ 0
.  .‘ "  t . _
i " (’63

decked out in festive-colored pennants.

One more unusual feature was the designation of
each playground. The name is attractively and con-
spicuously posted and carries under it some saying such
as “Acres of happiness for health and pleasure.”

Holiday celebrations were being held at nearly every
place I visited. On one playground, the children had
brought box lunches; a civic organization had donated
a large barrel of lemonade; and everyone was enjoying
a holiday picnic. Prior to lunch, there had been a doll
show, and the winners were proudly wearing the badges
(mostly crepe paper) 'which were their prizes.

CRAFTS PROJECTS—All playgrounds, I was told, were
engaged in a crafts project which was proving to be
most popular. They were making “fruit banks.” Each
child would bring a piece of fruit—an apple, orange,
pear and so forth—to be covered with papier-mache.
When this had hardened, it would be cut in half with
a razor blade, the fruit removed, the two papier-mache
sides pasted or taped together, the whole painted to
resemble the real fruit and, last but not least, a slot cut
out so that money could be dropped into the bank.

Mrs. Hopping said that they did a great deal with wall-
paper. Sheets from the books of samples were used to
make book covers, boxes and other common articles.
Much of the woodwork from the workshop classes was
“prettied” by pasting a Hora] design from the wallpaper
onto the shelf, box or book end and shellacking over it.

Another project which had caught on was the making
of bags, pocketbooks and other articles from some ready-
to-be-discarded monk’s cloth stage curtains, which had
been washed and dyed in the costume department and
given to the children for handcraft projects. Because
these were so heavy and coarse, they enjoyed working
with them, using large darning needles and brightly-
colored yarn for embroidery.

At the one playground where they were picnicking,
they had happened upon another use for waste mate-
rials. Coke bottle tops were being covered with cloth
and sewn together to make hot placemats. The sticks
from popsicles were saved, washed and used for the
rungs in ladder tournaments. They were uniform in size
and large enough to bear printed names.

REGISTRATION—There seem to be two schools of
thought on this subject. One is that registration is a
great responsibility and must, of necessity, be accom-
plished on the first day. This procedure, unfortunately, is

often followed by playground leaders. Result—the first

come expecting something to happen and are left solely

RECREATION

to their own devices, except for registering.

On other playgrounds, the object of the first day is
not to register children but to help them to have such
a good time that they go away with a fond spot in their
hearts for both the leaders and the playground, and a
burning desire for the next day to dawn so that they
may return. In these cases, the registration activity is
incidental. Usually it is accomplished by a junior leader
—or the slips are sent home with the youngsters and al-
most always, so they tell me, returned the next day.

Here, in Memphis, they use the less formal method.
They keep a guest book and everyone registers in it once
during the summer, usually near the beginning of the
season and under the direction of a junior leader.

The playgrounds are open from nine to six, but are
closed on Saturdays and Sundays. The staff holds its
meeting on Saturday morning. Previously, these meet-
ings were held Monday morning, but that meant that
the playgrounds had to be closed or unsupervised dur-
ing that time and quite often the staff could not reach
their playgrounds on time for the afternoon activities.
A study of Saturday’s attendance over a period of years
showed that this was the slowest playground day.

IS IT OPEN P—Another point which interests me is how
people can tell whether or not the playground is ac-
tually open. Mothers have no desire to leave children
on unsupervised areas. How can they tell, at a glance,
that someone is in attendance? Here, in Memphis, every
playground has a flagpole. Each day opens with a flag-
raising ceremony. When the playground is closed, the flag
is lowered. In this way, the observer can tell by the flag-
pole whether or not the playground is oHicially open.

GENERAL OBSERVATIONS—In their preseason training
course, each staff member is presented with a handbook.
For this he pays a two dollar deposit. At the end of the
season, when it is returned, he collects his money. It was
interesting to note how many nature activities were in-
cluded in program. The playgrounds are so situated that
a great many of them offer excellent opportunities for na-
ture study in adjoining wooded areas.

Another playground was found to be having a “party,”
sponsored by one of the men’s clubs. Two of their rep-
resentatives were watching the festivities. Among the par-
ticipants, one figure was most outstanding. It was covered
from head to foot in white cloth. A paper bag over its
head was decorated to resemble some grotesque creature.
It rode a broomstick and had a large sign hanging upon

it telling the onlookers that here was a Spook! (You cer-
“”' . tainly couldn’t miss

it.) The Spook cir-
culated throughout
the party all day,

Proud winners of a
pet show on the
Memphis play-
grounds. Dog sits on
“Class C o b b l e r,”
which gobbles all
the glass that the
children can find.

 

 

J"
"'h_r

  3.3"; .n...‘ 

Storytelling time on the Glenview Playground, Memphis, Ten-
nessee. All leaders wear attractive, crisp white uniforms with
shoulder identification which children can see at a glance.

 

handing out little notes so intricately folded that suspense
ran high before you finally came to the message, written
in poetry—and obviously by a child—admonishing the
reader to strive to observe a safe holiday or be for-
ever haunted by the Spook.

Other activities included a treasure hunt and a bal-
loon-swatting contest, in which two teams, the red and
the blue, tied appr0priately-colored balloons around their
waists. Each member was given a roll of white paper,
tied together for additional firmness, and, at a given sig-
nal, tried to break his opponent’s balloon.

Somewhere in the tour I observed a bright yellow nail

keg, placed near one of the bulletin boards. This, I was

told, was a “Class Gobbler.” The children deposit in
the “Cobbler” all the glass they find on the playground.
(Safety signs everywhere forbade bottles on the play-
ground.) As usual, the most popular games were “Spud,”
box hockey and paddle tennis.

An activity creating much enthusiasm on one particu-
lar playground involved crawling around, “driving”
and playing fireman on the full-sized, outmoded fire
engine parked on the grounds. This playground also has
small concrete steps which lead to nowhere. The chil-
dren love to walk up and down and sit there to talk.

In one place, the leader had faced a situation in which
quite a group of young men, who were monopolizing the
bandstand, were suspected of spending their days in an
exchange of worthless or smutty “stories.” The leader
moved tables and equipment for quiet games onto the
bandstand, and now, whenever she approaches the group,
she is rewarded—not as before with a sudden and com—
plete halt in their conversation—but with interested and
friendly remarks about the progress of the games.

I’m afraid that to do justice to the Memphis play-
grounds, it would be necessary for me to write a book.
I’m very happy that I had an opportunity to visit this
fine system, as it will help me in my evaluation of small-
er playgrounds and programs.

11

Anne Chilton

who’d have thought it?

“Froggy in the middle and he can’t get out,
Take a little stick and stir hitn all about.”

Remember that old childhood game? There are times
when even professional recreation people need to be
“stirred all about.” Out of that feeling grew the “Who’d
Have Thought It?” project on the Lynchburg, Vir-
ginia, playgrounds this past summer.

Possibly most of us have wondered, from time to time,
if our efforts in public recreation do tend to stifle initia-
tive. Therefore, our “Who’d Have Thought It?” project
was planned as an attempt to help the directors, and the
pe0ple with whom they work, to realize what they can
accomplish by their own efforts; and assistance from the
department, financial and otherwise, was held to an ab-
solute minimum.

In June, a series of staff meetings was held to plan
the summer recreation program. At one of these, the
project was outlined and discussed. We urged the direc-
tors to make this a community project, to talk OVer plans
with the playground children and their parents and to
interest as many community people as possible in the
execution of their ideas. We were delighted with their
enthusiastic response. It was announced that this would
be a summer contest, with awards to the winners pre-
sented late in August.

The rules were simple and few, as we felt that a long
list of dogmatic stipulations would hamper the very
traits we wanted to fan into a blaze of fun.

Rules
1. Participants to undertake a project which will show

concrete results.

2. Must be something new to your playground.

3. Work on project must be carried out on play-
ground. (Except some small part to be especially cut.)

4. Each director may spend three dollars from the
department upon the project.

Judging Criteria

1. Project showing most imagination or originality.

2. Project that will be most enjoyed.

3. Project that, in its making, would have been the
most beneficial to those working upon it.

The Lynchbarg News and Daily Advance gave the
program excellent publicity. During the summer a num-
ber of news articles on “Who’d Have Thought It?” ap-
peared and, as the summer ended, seven of the thir-
teen projects were pictured in the papers.

In the past, whenever a city-wide contest among the
playgrounds had been held, we had asked local peoplc

12

N IMAGINA TIVE PLAY

to act as judges, and they always have bcen most gra-
cious in cooperating. We felt, though, that it would be
stimulating to the playground directors to have the proj-
ects judged by people vitally interested in public recrea-
tion, and we were lucky in securing thc following judgcs:
Miss Nan Crow, Superintendent of Recreation, Charlottes-
ville, Virginia; Miss Virginia Mills, Administrative As-
sistant, Recreation Department, Charlottesville, Virginia;
Mr. V. C. Smoral, Superintendent of Recreation, Dan-
ville, Virginia; Miss Dorothy Killian, Superintendent of
Special Activities, Danville, Virginia; Mr. Coolie Verner,
Associate in Community Service, University of Virginia
Extension Service.

On judging day, August twenty-eighth, Floyd K.
McKenna, superintendent of the recreation department,
Myrtle Patterson, his assistant, and I toured the city
with the judges, stopping at each playground to view the
special contest entry.

A plaque, which is to be a three-year trOphy, was
awarded to the winner of first place. White Rock Play-
ground, with “Bowling on the Green,” took top honors.
Yoder Playground won second place. Its members had
constructed and painted a handcrafts and games table,
cleverly built around a gnarled, old tree. The older boys
and men also had made benches to go with the table.
Fisher Center won third place with a renovation job
on an unused room in the community house.

Our hope that “Who’d Have Thought It?” would en-
courage initiative and produce variety was pleasantly
gratified. A bird sanctuary had been developed 011 onc
ground where a number of birdhouses, several feeders
and a birdbath had been constructed. Another had mini-
ature golf as a project, and yet another had made cun-
ning stuffed animals for the little folk. A replica of
their historic community house and play equipment had
engrossed the Point of Honor Playground peoplc. Hand-
made sandpile toys and wagons made up the projcct of
one group; while tables, instruments for a rhythm band,
the construction of a number of novel games for a center
game room, doll furniture and sock dolls were othcr cn-
tries. A stone fireplace, where wiener roasts will often
be enjoyed, was the project which occupied varied agc
groups from Cuggenheimer-Milliken Center.

“Who’d Have Thought It?” was thc little stick that
had stirred our staff all about, but we like to think that
they found it a pleasant wand and not a bludgeon.

W

MRS. CHILTON has been the arts director of the Lynch-
barg, V a., Recreation Department for the past four years.

RECREATION

 

Catherine Sublett

GROUND PROIECT. . .
and ITS RESULTS

bowling on the green

When we started our summer round-up program,

our main purpose was to make our White Rock
Playground the gathering place for the entire neighbor-
hood, to bring out parents for recreation with their chil-
dren. This seemed difficult, but help came in the form
of our “Who’d Have Thought It?” project, which mended
all our problems. Yes, who’d have thought that we would
have a bowling alley on White Rock Playground——-bowl-
ing on the green? It required much work and lots of
material.

Boys and girls brought dads and mothers and even
neighbors along. Enthusiasm ran high. We really had
the alley finished long before we got started. Our imagi-
nations were carried away, and with our parents acting
as carpenters, this is how it was done:

We visited the Red Crown Bowling Alley to get cor-
rect measurements and, to our surprise, the manager gave
us a set of used balls, pins and a bowling chart to fol-
low. This really put the spirit into things, for we were
planning to make the pins from old cracked baseball
bats. But having the real McCoy spurred us all on to
other details. We made our alley forty feet instead of
sixty feet, because the grass slows up the ball and, also,
to give the little fellow a chance to bowl.

One of the dads, being a draftsman, drew our plans.
You can see from the diagram that he did a good job.
The lumber? W'ell, we had only three dollars for our
project, so paying for it was out of the question. We
called one of the neighborhood lumber companies and
talked with one of the executives. We told him of our
plans and that we would appreciate having any used

:00! 40104

5/9: Award

baci- boa/‘0’

5/01:- fAEI/ATION pLA/V
OUTDOOR don/LING ALLZEV

l0 5 °

.5 c «5/3 feet“

.51: r/ 5:3” 6'
 V'ry

-._- q..—

 
 

 

 

  

a’ r .
.‘52 ebaaif

 
 

APRIL 1951

 

 

  

|—————-v—-‘—-————_—————____—__...C__.-_-————_.—————

-' 5W0»? face 5: 54’ an“:

 

Bowling green at White Rock Playground, Lynchburg, Virginia.

lumber or scraps he could spare. He said, “If it’s for
children, nothing is too good for them. Come down and
we’ll fix you up.” We took three of our older boys with
us and, loaded down with lumber, made four or live
trips to and from the playground.

The fathers marked off the alley one night; the chil-
dren dug and carried away the dirt and turf the next
day, so everything went along very smoothly. After din-
ner, with their regular day’s work done, ten of the fa-
thers and neighbors gathered at the playground and, by
the light of their cars, worked on the alley. In six nights
it was completed. The children painted all of the new
lumber before using it, with the flat paint obtained in
the neighborhood. Our three dollars purchased dark
green and white paint for the finishing touches.

The turf where the ball hit that first lick was taking
a beating, so one of the parents had the bright idea that
a rubber mat would protect it. A furniture store donated
this and shavings were put into the pit.

We must have had favorable publicity because out-
of-towners have come over to inspect our work and have
gone away satisfied. We are happy to say, when they ask
how much we charge to bowl, “Why, nothing! Every-
thing’s free 011 our playground. Come and join the fun!”

Another thing for which we are thankful is that the

children who were problems and

who had little interest in the usual

l playground activities are now par-

ticipating in our bowling. Taking

turns at being pin boys has taught
them fair play.

Maybe we are a bit smug. We
think that we are justified in our
pride, though, when we see groups
of parents, who never before parti-
cipated at White Rock Playground,

merrily bowling on the green.

MISS SUBLETT is director of White
Rock Playground, Lynchburg, Va.

.u—u—q-u— __.—-——

13

 

WADING

T THE 1950 fall meeting of the Illinois Recreation

Association, one of the workshop sessions was
devoted to a discussion of wading pools. The group went
on record as opposing the installation of wading pools
and recommended, instead, the construction of spray
slabs or pools. Reasons presented for favoring the spray
slab were: elimination of the danger of drowning and
of cuts from broken glass, better sanitation, lower con-
struction cost and ease of maintenance and supervision.
Opposition to wading pools on the part of the State
Health Department was another factor. As one member
of the group stated: “We look upon the wading pool
versus the spray slab somewhat as we compare a lighted
baseball field to a lighted softball field; it is better to have
ten of the latter than one of the former.”

The wading pool has long been considered an impor—
tant and exceedingly popular feature of the children’s
playground. A total of 1,861 wading pools was reported
by 547 cities in the RECREATION Year Book for 1948.
The action taken by the Illinois group in opposing the
installation of new wading pools presents a challenge
to all who believe that this facility deserves a high place
among the city’s recreation resources. It raises many
questions that deserve an answer. When cities are plan-
ning new neighborhood recreation areas, should they in-
clude a wading pool, as so many have done in the past, or
should a spray slab be substituted?

As a means of securing an expression of opinion on
this subject, a letter was addressed to twenty-one recre-
ation executives who have had experience in the opera-
tion of wading pools. The selection was made some-
what at random from cities in different parts of the
country and of varying population that had reported
several wading pools in the RECREATION Year Book for
1946. The executives were asked to report how they had
solved their wading pool problems—if they had done so
--and to comment upon such questions as the following:

1. How popular with children is the playground wad-
ing pool?

2. How valuable is play in the wading pool?

—___T_—
MR. BUTLER is head of the Research Department, NRA.
14

f'

3. Have you found that the wading pool presents haz-
ards that make it a considerable source of danger?

4. Is it practicable to keep the water in a sanitary
condition?

5. What steps do you take to assure this?

6. Has any case of infection been traced to a wading
pool in your city?

7. To what extent do you consider the spray basin
a satisfactory substitute for the wading pool?

8. Have your state or local health authorities imposed
unreasonable wading pool regulations?

9. Does the volume of use justify the expense of oper-
ating a pool?

Replies received from fourteen of the workers who
were questioned are quoted below; no word was received
from seven of the executives. 0f the group replying, four
are definitely in favor of the spray pool or slah; seven
support the wading pool wholeheartedly; the three others

 

Whot has been your experience in the operation of
woding ond sproy pools? Whot ore your onswers to the
questions raised in this symposium? Your comments will
be welcome ond will contribute to 0 solution of this
problem.

 

have much to say in favor of the wading pool, but also
recognize certain advantages in the spray pool.

The statements that follow should be read with interest
by every park and recreation authority. By no means do
they afford the final answer to the wading pool ques-
tion, but they do make it clear that the opinion of the
Illinois group is far from unanimous. Additional com-
ments and reports of experience will be welcome.

Waiter Roy, Director of Recreation, Chicago Park
District—Realizing the pressure exerted by state health
departments for compliance with their laws pertaining
to sanitation of swimming and wading pools, we are
fully aware that wc are facing a problem. Again, whcther
all of their laws arc based upon valid assumption we
think is questionable. For instance, in Chicago, we now
have one-half of the city furnished with filtered water;
and steps are under way to complete the filtration of
water in the other half.

RECREATION

POOLS..

George D. Butler

. . . AN ASSET on A LIABILITY?

Our State Health De-

partment recommends

t?

- spray pools in prefer-
ence to wading pools
and, in the near future,
we anticipate that we
will have to do some-
thing about this. We
have done some exper-

Chicago’s old {ill and draw pool is imenting With Spray

emptied every night, swept and sun- pools, but not too much
bathed before it is filled again.

 

to our satisfaction. Wa-
ter from underground in Chicago is quite cold, and the
resulting shock, as well as the running on slippery floor
surfaces, causes us much concern.

At the present time, we Operate the old fill and draw
wading pool, with water running continuously through
overflows. The pool is emptied every night, swept and
sun-bathed before refilling. This is expensive, but neces-
sary to maintain sanitary conditions. If spray pools could
be developed to our satisfaction, I think we would prefer
them to the costly operation of wading pools, although
we won’t admit, from our own experience, that the young-
sters prefer the spray pool.

To the best of our knowledge, including that of our
health department, no infection has been traced to a
wading pool in our city. Our present wading pools are
one of the heaviest used facilities and prove an excellent
offering to this age group. We, as others, are anxious to
secure valid data in regard to the future of the wading
pools or the substitution of spray pools.

* * *

Roy A. Cligord, Director, Joint Recreation Board,
Cleveland Heights, Ohio—In answer to your questions:

1. The wading pool is extremely p0pular.

2. It seems to afford a type of play and enthusiasm
that is effervescent, spontaneous and informal.

3. It does not present more hazards than most play-
ground equipment, if well organized.

4. We have no difficulty keeping the water sanitary.

5. We have a rigid inspection plan that is closely ad-

APRIL 1951

hered to by our city health department and I believe
that this is all that is necessary to maintain an ade-
quately-sanitary condition.

6. No cases of infection have resulted.

7. In extremely hot weather, the spray pool perhaps
is more desirable but, over the entire summer, I would
prefer the wading pool.

8. Necessary regulations have been imposed, but not
unreasonable ones.

9. In Cleveland Heights, it is one of our most attrac-
tive and popular facilities.

Regarding any future situation where a community
is to decide between wading pools or spray slabs, I
would imagine that the cost would have to be taken into
account because of our present world situation. In
warmer climates, perhaps the spray slab would suffice;
but in climates such as the Great Lakes area, the wad-
ing pool is well worth the difference in cost.

I- i It

James H. Dillon, Director of Recreation, Hartford,
Connecticut—Hartford was one of the first cities to es-
tablish a wading pool in 1899 and it was very popular
for many years. Sanitation was never considered in those
days. In 1927 we constructed a more modern wading
pool; and two of the housing projects have pools.

In 1946 we constructed a spray pool, with a concrete
base about fifty feet in diameter, and the success of this
facility from every standpoint has completely changed
our future planning program to include spray pools.
We concur with the reasons given at the fall meeting of
the Illinois Recreation Association favoring their use.

Lawrence P. Moser, Executive Director, Kalamazoo,
Michigan—We feel that the wading pool is an asset to
any ground. It requires as much supervision to handle
sprays as the old-fashioned pool. In the cities which I
have checked, the sprays are used only part of the time.

We have had very little difficulty with broken glass,
experiencing it upon only one ground during the past
five or six years. We wash our pools with potassium
permanganate every week, and more often if needed.

15

 

Children formerly waded at Memorial Field, East Orange, New
Jersey, now enjoy a spray. Other cities have made this change.

Spray slabs must be washed if they become slippery.

There is more danger of injury in the sprays because
the youngsters continually run through them. Many
skinned legs and knees have been noted. The spray blinds
those running towards it.

We have had no difiiculty with sanitation. An over-
flow allows running water at all times and the water is
never stagnant. The health department checks each pool
weekly, and we have never yet had any instance where
infection has been traced to any one of them. Sprays,
however, can be a good substitute where it is imprac-
tical to build a pool.

We have found that wherever we have a pool, attend-
ance is greater than in a spray area. The ground aver-
ages one to two degrees cooler because of the evapora-
tion of continually running cool water. There has been

no difficulty with state authorities.
‘I ‘I ‘I

George H jelle, General Manager, Department of Rec-
reation and Parks, Los Angelesn-In evaluating the wad-
ing pool as playground equipment, it is necessary first
to distinguish it from the shallow wading pool. A wading
pool which is so shallow as to permit only wading and
no swimming always has been a popular installation on
public playgrounds, and most popular in the places which
enjoy very warm, if not hot, weather in the summertime.
With heavy use, however, it is difficult to maintain sani-
tary water conditions. To do so requires a very frequent
change of water or the installation of filtration and
chlorinating equipment. This makes the wading pool ex-
pensive in relation to its benefits.

The spray pool is more economically operated. It ac-
complishes some of the purposes of the shallow wading
pool but not all, its principal value being to provide a
convenient and pleasant way of cooling off in hot
weather. The wading pool has the additional advantage
of developing an acquaintance with, and confidence in,
water—which is basic to later development of swimming
skill and confidence. Practically, it would appear that a
Wading pool should be installed if it can be afforded but,
if not, a spray pool might be a necessary compromise.

We have found that the wading pool, if properly con-
structed and supervised in its use, is not an extraordinary
source of danger and accidents. The water can be kept in

16

sanitary condition by the manual application of Clorox or
a similar compound; but if use is vcry heavy, filtration
equipment is desirable. We have not installed filtration
equipment in any of our wading pools as yet. The sum-
mer temperature in Los Angeles, however, is not as
high as that in many other places where, no doubt, thc
use of wading pools is relatively much greater. The au-
thorities who administer public health programs are be-
coming more and more critical of wading pool operation.
I' I' I'

W. A. Moore, SUperintendent of Recreation, Louis-
ville, Kentucky—I was greatly surprised to read about
the action taken by the Illinois Recreation Association.
Louisville operates eighteen wading pools in its public
parks and playgrounds and finds their popularity, in re-
lationship to use, to be far greater than that of any other
facility ofi'ered. Our pools are open from nine a.1n. to
six pm. daily, are drained each night and thoroughly

3’."

if

i“
- r g.
I

This spray pool and shelter in Evansville was constructed by a
civic group last year, then turned over to the park department.

scrubbed before filling the next morning. They are hand
chlorinated and, to our knowledge, no great amount of
infection has ever been traced to their use. Our ex-
perience has shown the spray slab to be an unsatisfac-
tory substitute for wading pools. We plan to build twelvc
small swimming pools and nineteen more wading pools
out of bond issue money recently authorized, when the
national situation permits it. We firmly believe in the

use of wading pools.
* ‘l' l'

D. B. Dyer, Director of Recreation, Milwaukee—Wc
have wading pools on some of our larger playgrounds.
They are quite popular with the smaller children, par-
ticularly on very hot days. However, we have found them
to be somewhat expensive and some source of danger
and trouble. During the summer playground season,
when the pools are in use, we have had to employ someone
full time to be in charge of each. Children will misbe-
have and, without supervision, injury may result. 011

RECREATION

 

occasion, sticks, cans and bottles have been tossed into the
pools. They are drained every evening, and we have had
no case of infection traced to them. However, we do
have trouble with stones, sticks and so forth in the drains
because of the mischievous acts of youngsters. Some-
times it is quite expensive to repair the resulting damages.

In Milwaukee, we do not believe that it would be
possible to replace our wading pools with spray basins.
Our water is taken from the lake and, after running a
short time, becomes very cold. Neither the state nor city
health authorities have imposed any unreasonable regu-
lations upon our wading pools.

In summary—we have not recommended the installa-
tion of wading pools upon any of our new playgrounds.
* * *

K. B. Raymond, Director of Recreation, Minneapolis,
Minnesota—We feel that spray slabs are a substitute for
wading pools, but that wading pools are much to be
preferred. Here, where we have fourteen bathing beaches
located on natural lakes, we feel that it is important that
children should become familiar with water at an early
age. In fact, in cooperation with the Red Cross, we con-
duct wading pool classes for children seven years old
and younger, at which they are taught how to hold
their heads under water, simple water games and the ele-
mentary “dog paddle.” These classes are very p0pular
and parents are one hundred per cent in favor 'of them.

In answer to your specific questions, the wading pools
are among the most popular of our summer facilities,
and are in constant use on every warm summer day.
We have them on twenty playgrounds at present, and
they are included in plans for future play areas. We also
find that the wading pools attract both the younger
children and the parents, and are a good means of fa-
miliarizing them with the other activities on the play-
grounds.

We have not found them a source of hazard, except
that care must be taken to see that they do not contain
broken glass. Furthermore, the answer to this question
also depends upon the type of construction of the pool.
It should not have too steep a pitch. All of our pools
are of the overflow construction variety, with a constant
circulation of water. At least once each week, the pools
are drained completely and left dry for a period of
twenty-four hours in order that there shall not be an
accumulation of algae.

There is no definite evidence that any case of infec-
tion could be traced to the use of a wading pool. During
the polio epidemic here, a few years ago, parents were
requested to keep children from bathing beaches, wading
pools and playgrounds, but this precaution was taken
only to prevent the congregation of large groups of
children in order to allay any chance of contagion
through personal contact.

In our estimation, a spray basin is better than nothing,
but we do not consider it a satisfactory substitute for
the pool. Health authorities have not imposed unreason-

able regulations of any kind.
* * *

APRIL 1951

B. A. Solbraa, Director of Recreation, Racine, Wis-
consin-—-Playground showers have taken the place of
wading pools in our playground program. Four years
ago the local board of health condemned our wading
pools because it was impossible to keep them clean.
Children with dirty feet and bodies would run through
the pool, and many of the smaller children would use
the foot-deep water as a swimming pool. The overhead
showers are now turned on during the warm hours of
the day, with the drains open at all times. All play-
grounds are equipped with water hose and shower heads
mounted upon six-foot poles, and those playgrounds

 

A circular,.1nodern pool in New York City, where the city
park comm15510n supports wading pools on many playgrounds.

without spray slabs permit the water to run onto the

ground. Drainage is not a particular problem.
‘I' * *

S. G. Witter, Recreation Superintendent, Spokane,
Washington—I fully realize the problems involved in

maintaining a sanitary wading pool. We find it necessary
to change the water on an average of about once per

day, notwithstanding the fact that it is chlorinated to the
extent of from three-tenths to five-tenths parts per million.
This chlorinating is done manually, as we find it too
costly to provide automatic dispensers for this purpose.
We likewise find it too costly to install filtration plants
at these small pools, unless they are located adjacent to
a swimming pool. It involves not only the cost of equip-
ment required, but the cost of housing for the equipment.

Our wading pools are extensively used and very p0pu-
lar, and thus far we have received a clean bill of health
from the public health department. The sanitation and
safety of a wading pool require constant and careful
supervision, especially during peak load periods. We
also find it desirable to fence the pools so as to keep
out dogs and eliminate the likelihood of traffic through

17

them by older children and even adults in swim suits.

We have never used the splash pools here. The main
objection offered by one of our leading children’s physi-
cians was that the cold water was not conducive to their
health and well-being. These splash pools would require
special heating devices that would make them less de-
sirable, from our point of view, because of the cost.

If we were to discontinue our wading pools, I know
that such discontinuance would bring a storm of pro-
test from the communities in which they are located.

if ‘I- ‘I‘

Richard Rodda, Superintendent of Recreation, Tea-
neck, New Jersey—In Teaneck, wading pools would
definitely be considered an asset to the facilities offered
for the children. It is true that construction costs may be
considered high, but hardly prohibitive. The first wading
pools constructed locally were put in'some sixteen to
eighteen years ago, at a cost approximating one thou-
sand dollars each. Three more were added to the local

' '1h'

.f‘

 

An example of a modem-type pool in Loring Park, Minneapo-
lis. Here, pools are pOpular and in constant use in summer.

parks two years ago, at a cost of twenty-six hundred dol-
lars each. The depth of the pools varies from four to
fourteen inches. Collectively, during the summer, they
attract more children to our parks with their parents
than any other single piece of apparatus or planned pro-
gram. Their presence triples, at least, the potential of
public relations between the recreation department and
the taxpayers.

Operation costs include the salaries of men who serve
partly as guards and whose primary responsibility is the
wading pool. They are expected to scrub the pool daily, see
that it is filled and that a constant flow of water enters
it. The average daily amount of water used at each of
the six pools is approximately fifty thousand gallons and
the cost is not prohibitive.

From twenty to forty children can be accommodated

18

comfortably at any time. With sandboxes and small chil-
dren’s apparatus nearby, there is a ,constant flow of chil-
dren between the apparatus and the pool.

Some potential hazards are created with the construc-
tion of a wading pool, but these hazards will remain
“potential” as long as proper supervision is provided.

For all practical intents and purposes, the water in any
wading pool can be kept in sanitary condition. This is
done by insuring a clean pool daily and its use only by
those ready to use it from a cleanliness standpoint. Our
state and local health authorities, by their regulations,
have helped us to maintain maximum use of our pools. A
spray basin would be a satisfactory substitute, but the
emphasis would have to be upon the word “substitute.”

To date, our wading pools have offered no pertinent
problems and, rather, have added much to the apprecia-
tion value of our parks and playgrounds. It is readily
understandable why wading pools may be considered the
“icing upon the cake” where playground construction
and development are concerned.

If five requisites for good playgrounds were rcquired,
Teaneck would list them in the following order: space,
leadership, shade, small children’s apparatus and wading
pool. Teaneck has been proud of its pools.

* * *

Bert E. Swanson, Dean of Recreation, Stockton, Cali-
fornia—The Stockton Recreation Department operates
eight wading pools, all but one of which have come to
the city as gifts and memorials. Our pools are oval in
shape, three to eight inches deep and, for the most part,
are located in one-block-square parks in neighborhoods
where many children abound. California’s Central Valley
has continuous sunshine throughout the summer months,
and the pools are used from May through September. The
hours are from one to five p.m., when the park caretaker
is on duty. This man furnishes casual supervision, all
that is needed, and he goes about his usual work with
little or no interruption. The pools are filled in one hour
from park wells, after the park watering has been done.
They are drained at five p.m. and are exposed to eight
hours of California sunshine. We have never had any in-
fections or sanitary problems during twenty-five years of
experience.

Some mothers come with their children and sit and
visit on nearby benches and at picnic tables. These
mothers help with the supervision and naturally take care
of the entire group; thus the park wading pool becomes
a social institution. All this is at no additional taxpayer
expense, and it becomes a very popular form of summer
recreation.

In summary, I would say that wading pools are in
expensive to acquire and to operate. They are very popu-
lar during summer vacation and fill a hot-weather need.
I doubt that spray slabs can compete with the attributes
of a wading pool, and would think that in shower slabs
children would have a tendency to fight for position, that
the older ones would push the younger ones out of the

way, and thus require expensive full-time supervision.
(to be continued, May RECREATION)

RECREATION

Lloyd A. Bochford

746 1W-

A RECREATION CENTER

0 DOUBT MANY cities have in-

cluded in their playground

equipment some type of mo-
bile unit, such as a woodshop on
wheels, a portable stage or a traveling
crafts center; but recreation folk in
Long Beach, California, are quite cer-
tain that their “Hobbymobile” is the
first to carry a well-equipped photo-
graphic darkroom. With its use,
classes in photography can be con-
ducted at ten playgrounds on a sched-
ule which permits the instructor to
visit two areas a day. The hours are
nine-thirty a.m. to twelve noon and
one-thirty p.111. to five p.m.—sulficient
time in which to present the subject in
a really adequate manner.

The term “well-equipped” is not
used loosely, for this is a darkroom
which would induce the pride of any
amateur photographer. A double sink
with running water and ample work-
table space at convenient height and
extending on two sides, numerous elec-
tric outlets, lots of shelf space, a cabi-
net for storing chemicals, several
drawers for storage of paper, cameras
and other equipment, are some of its
features. Of course there is an air con-
ditioning unit, which is indispensable
in a room which must be tightly closed
during many of the operations. Glass

 

MR. ROCHFORD is in the Research and
Publications Division of the Long
Beach Recreation Department, Calif.

APRIL 1951

ON WHEELS

and opaque panels are fitted into
double sliding metal window frames,
providing blackout or daylight condi-
tions at will. Fluorescent tube lighting
is available at the flip of a switch.

There are the usual trays in various
sizes, graduates, funnels, thermome-
ters, a safelight, and then—the pride
of instructor and class members alike
—a four-by-live condenser enlarger.
Much of the equipment was donated
by members of the Long Beach Photo
Dealers and Finishers Association,
who also have contributed all supplies
and provided several small cameras
which are loaned to boys and girls
who do not own such equipment.

An eight-weeks’ course of instruc-
tion culminates in area photo exhibits
at which ribbons are awarded for first,
second and third place selections. First-
place winning pictures are entered in
an all-city junior salon, in which the
Long Beach Camera Guild cooperates
and makes awards. The classes in pho-
tography have attracted other expres-
sions of interest and cooperation. One
instance is that of a weekly newspaper
publisher who printed and distributed
“Junior Press Photographer” cards to
the members of a class held in the
neighborhood served by his paper.

The Hobbymobile is designed as a
multiple-use facility, so photography is
not the only activity which it serves.
For several weeks it carried a trans-
portation exhibit. A women’s civic

‘ ' llllllllll
I
.
1; II

 

All get a chance to use .the enlarger after
they have learned the basic requirements
for camera exposure and film developing
in the Hobbymobile’s photography classes.

group cooperated with the recreation
commission in setting up a panoramic
scene and, with the aid of models,
showed the various means of travel by
land, sea and air. This exhibit was
scheduled, by request, at practically
all school and municipal playgrounds
in the city.

Large bulletin boards are located
both inside and outside. The outside
board is protected by a hinged cover
which may be locked, to protect the
material posted when the Hobbymo-
bile is parked without supervision, or
may be raised to provide an awning.
Beneath the bulletin board there is a
shelf for the carrying of books, comic
papers and other material—a travel-
ing playground library idea.

A loudspeaker system, with turn-
table for record programs, is another
useful feature. A microphone is used
when the Hobbymobile serves as a
public address system in connection
with events or for the announcer or
speaking characters, singers and mu-
sicians in connection with communi-
ty programs.

19

 

Swimmers receiving preliminary in-
struetions in a beginners’ Red
Cross class in Miami Beach,
Florida, listen attentively. Classes
. like this one are an important
part of many summer programs.

STANDARDS NR GHILDREN’S SUMMER PRIIGMMS

20

APRELIMINARY report under the above title was issued
in the spring of 1950 by the Welfare Council and the
Children’s Welfare Federation of New York City. It was
the result of a prolonged study of regulations and require-
ments which might be included in a code to bc cnforced
by the city’s department of health. The proposed stand-
ards are applicable to group programs for children over
eight years of age and can be studied to advantage by all
who have responsibility for the care and supervision of
children’s groups.

The standards which follow are presented as “a
guide to agencies which are operating summer programs
for children, whether known as summer day camps, play
groups, play schools, play centers or by any other name
which, for compensation or otherwise, receivc for super-
vision and care six or more children who are enrolled
for a period of one week or more for nine or more
hours per week.”

Physical Facilities

Location of PremisesmBasement or cellar rooms, in
which the floor is more than three feet below the surface
of the ground surrounding the building on any one or
more of four sidcs, are not usually suitable for use by
child groups. However, if heating, lighting and ventila-
tion are satisfactory, the rooms—where the equipment
for heating and otherwise operating the building and the

RECREATION

main trap and clean-out plug of the building plumbing
system are located—are sealed off from the rest of the
basemcnt and the walls and floors are not subject to
dampness, then such rooms may be used.

Sanitary Conditions—All parts of the premises, and
thcir furnishings and equipment and thc materials used
by the children, should be kept, at all times, in a safe and
sanitary condition and free from flies, mosquitoes,
rodents and other vermin. Rooms should not be swept,
dusted or scrubbed while occupied by the children.

Lighting—Each room used by the children should be
properly lighted, by means of windows or skylights pro-
vided with adjustable shades of sufficient size and num-
ber, to permit an adequate supply of natural light to be
difi'used to all parts of the room. Every room, passage-
way, stairway and hallway should be equipped with
artificial means of illumination and should be adequate-
ly lighted when the natural light is inadequate.

The illumination in all rooms used by the children
should not be less than ten-foot candles at activity level.
Lights should be of such type that flickering or exposed
filaments are eliminated.

Ventilation—Every room used for the program should
have one or more windows opening upon a public thor-
oughfare, a yard or court which is not less than ten feet
wide. The total window area should not be less than ten
per cent of the floor area.

When mechanical ventilation is employed, the air flow
should be at a rate of at least six hundred cubic feet per
person per hour in all rooms and twelve hundred cubic
feet per person per hour for play rooms where children
are exercising. The inlets and the outlets should be so
arranged as not to subject the occupants to drafts.

Use of Gas—The use of gas for lighting, heating or
cooking should not be permitted in rooms used by the
children, except where used under direct supervision for
teaching purposes.

Indoor Space—In rooms which are used for the pro-
gram on a continuing basis, a minimum of thirty square
feet of floor space and two hundred fifty cubic feet of air
space should be provided for each child.

Outdoor Play Space—A safe and sanitary outdoor play
space should be provided with a minimum allowance of
fifty square feet of area for each child playing there at
any one time.

Outdoor locations which are used on a continuing basis
for summer group programs for children should be pro-
vided with suitable shelter, in order to protect the chil-
dren from inclement weather or from the sun, or else
immediate means of transportation to such shelter always
should be available. Such outdoor locations should have
adequate, accessible drinking water and toilet facilities.

W aterfront—Care should be taken that, where swim-
ming pools under private auspices are used, the standards
relating to the operation of bathing establishments are
met. In cases where public facilities are used and full re-
sponsibility is not assumed by the operator, supervision
also should be provided by the agency, in conformity
with accepted safety standards which have been estab-

APRIL 1951

lished by the Red Cross and other agencies.

Sanitary Facilities

Drinking Water—Drinking water, conveniently located
and supplied by sanitary means, should be easily accessi-
ble and individual drinking cups provided. If bubble
fountains are provided, they should be of an approved
type. Outdoor fountains should be provided with proper
drainage or placed upon platforms. If water supply other
than the public supply is used, it should be approved by
the department of health.

. :- .

3.5

 .
M 1: aura

 

Washing Facilities—Stationary wash basins, with run-
ning water, should be provided in the following ratio:

NUMBER NUMBER OF STATIONARY
OF CHILDREN WASH BASINS
Under 25 1
26 - 50 2
51 - 100 4
101 - 200 8
201 - 300 10

Toilet Facilities—Toilets should be separated by par-
titions at least four feet high and there should be sepa-
rate facilities for b0ys and girls in the following ratio:

NUMBER NUMBER
OF CHILDREN OF CLOSETS

Under 15 1

16- 35 2

36- 55 3

56- 80 4

81 - 110 :3

An adequate supply of toilet paper, soap and towels,
or sanitary dryer, should be available at all times and
within reach of the children.

Food

The maintenance and conduct of the kitchen and din-
ing room should meet regulations relating to the clean-
ing of cooking, eating and drinking utensils.

Diet—Nourishing food, allowing a standard dietary
acceptable to the department of health and adapted to
the different age groups, should be available at intervals
not exceeding four hours. The nutrition bureau of the
department of health provides a consultation service
which is available to agencies.

Refrigeration of Perishable Foodstuffs—Where indoor
facilities are used, perishable food or drink should be
kept refrigerated in a properly-constructed refrigerator
provided with a thermometer; safeguards against con-
tamination and deterioration of food should be provided.

Garbage Receptacles—Garbage receptacles should be
provided with covers and should be of adequate sizes.
The contents should be removed from the premises daily

21

and the receptacles disinfected after each emptying.

Health and Medical Care

Every agency should have on call the services of a
physician. The board, officers or other persons having
charge, management or control of an agency should re-
quire of all who come in contact with the children a cer-
tificate from a physician that such a person is in good
health prior to his employment, and biennially thereafter.
Such certificate should be based upon medical examina-
tion and chest x-ray, with such laboratory tests as may
be indicated, and should be kept on file in the agency.

Each child, when admitted to the program, should be
given a complete physical examination by a physician or
should present certification that such an examination re-
cently has been made.

Staff should be aware of the symptoms of illness, over-
stimulation, excessive fatigue'or heat exhaustion, and
these should be reported immediately.

In cases of accident or serious illness which call for
immediate medical care, the agency should be responsi~
ble for securing that care and notifying the parent or
guardian of the child. Children with any communicable
disease should not be admitted to the program.

The following sections of the sanitary code, in relation
to the reporting and controlling of communicable dis-
eases, have particular application to summer group pro-
grams for children.

(1) If any child in the program develops symptoms of
illness, he should be isolated from the other children un-
til he can be seen by a physician or safely _removed
from the agency. If symptoms point to communicable
disease, notice should be given to the Bureau of Preven-
table Disease by telephone and to the parent or guardian.

(2) Children, directors, teachers or other agency per-
sonnel with a communicable disease, or who have recent-
ly recovered from a communicable disease, or in whose
family there is a communicable disease, should not be
permitted to attend unless evidence appropriate to the
particular case, as hereinafter specified, is presented.

Specific procedure to be followed in reporting certain
forms of disease in accordance with New York regula-

tions are indicated in the standards report.”

First Aid—A first-aid kit, which includes items recom-
mendedby the Red Cross for first-aid treatment, should
be kept completely stocked for emergency treatment and
readily available at all times. At least one staff member
of those in charge of children should be qualified to ad-
minister first aid. A list of items recommended for first-
aid kits and recommended standards of training in first
aid may be secured from the American Red Cross.

Transportation—Where child groups are transported
from one place to another by omnibus or motor vehicle,
such vehicle should be adequate and suitable for this
purpose. Every owner, lessee and/or operator should
comply with the rules and regulations prescribed by the
Public Service Commission of the State of New York and
with all other laws relating to omnibuses and motor
vehicles transporting children.

Children, while being transported by bus, train or
any other public conveyance, should be under the supcr-
vision of at least two adults, in addition to the driver of
the vehicle. Children ten years of age or under, while be-
ing transported by bus, train or any other public convey-
ance, should be under the supervision of at least two
adults—when there is a maximum of twenty-five children
———in addition to the driver of the vehicle.

Insurance—Adequate liability insurance should be
carried.

Registration and Records

(1) A permanent register should be kept of the name,
home address and birth date of each child admitted to
the program; the names and home address of the par-
ents or guardian; the place at which the parents can be
reached in case of an emergency during thc hours when
the child is in the care of the agency; the date of admis-
sion; date of discharge with reason therefor.

(2) A daily record should be kept of children admit-

ted and children in attendance.

*Mimeographed copies of this may be obtained from

the Welfare Council of New York City, 44 East 23rd
Street, New York 10, New York.

Resident camping in nine cities

HE CAMP SERVICES of agencies
T using permanent campsites and
providing overnight care in nine cities
have been studied by the Community
Chests and Councils of America, In~
corporated, and the results are sum-
marized in a bulletin cntitled “Camp-
ing,” issued in November 1950. A
total of 126-camps was reported by the
agencies in cities varying in size from
Nashville, Tennessee, to Baltimore,
Maryland.

The study revealed that resident
camping is available to only a small

22

percentage of the population in these
cities; about three per cent of the five-
to-twenty-year-old group went to camp
in 1949. The average number of
camper days amounted to eighty-eight
per one thousand total population.
The study maintains that, in thc
“average” city, more boys than girls
go to camp; sixty-three per cent of the
total campers in eight of the cities
were boys and young men. Practically
all of the boys attending Boy Scout
camps were twelve years of age and
over, but camps operated by some of

the other agencies reported more
campers in the under-twelve group.
For eight of the cities reporting.
thirty-nine per cent of the campers
spent seven days or less in camp; few
campers stayed fifteen days or more.
The number of camp beds, exclud-
ing those for staff fnembcrs, ranged
from twelve to 570, the median hcing
ninety-three beds. Camp occupancy av-
eraged eighty-three per cent for the
eight cities. The study also covered
such topics as the numbers and types

of camp staff members.

RECREATION

 

PRING IS THE TIME when a young

lad’s fancy seriously turns to—
marbles. With the play spirit in the
air, a boy’s wealth is measured by his
bag of shiny glassies, Chinese and
milk reals, steelees, aggees, boulders,
croakers, immies and purees. To the
constant concern of Mother, holes are
worn through knee pants; and the dirt
encrusted on knuckles and under
fingernails never seems to rub off as
youth pursues this ancient pastime.

Who, among us, will ever forget the
fun we had playing marbles? Yet few
know anything of the fascinating back-
ground of this activity, for its origin
is lost in the mists of antiquity.

In the earthen monuments of the
Moundbuilders, the mysterious race
that peopled America long before the
Indians, clay and flint pellets-"beauti-
fully decorated and carved—were
found. The amazing Aztecs, we learn,
played at marbles as did the American
Indian, for the early settlers who came
to this continent found them playing a
version of the game the colonists had
known in England. An American col-
lector owns several English marbles,

authenticated as a thousand years old.
A bag of marbles is the annual rent

for property in London deeded to the
APRIL 1951

Crown. This fee was set many years

ago and the practice is still carried on
in typical British tradition. Stone Age
remains in Asia, Africa and Europe
have yielded marbles rudely chipped
from pebbles or roughly rolled of
adobe and clay.

Moses, during his youthful days in
Pharaoh’s court, shot nibs with Egyp-
tian youngsters, using a type of sun-
baked mud pottery. The British Mu-
seum contains many such specimens
discovered in the tomb of King Tut.

Historians would have us believe
that it was not a stone but a marble
that little David used when he whirled
his sling and scored a bull’s-eye on
the huge Goliath.

Marbles were found in the ruins of
Home after Nero’s torch lay the city
in ashes. Records show that the R0-
mans, sometimes at parties, made use
of nuts for shooters.

Age-old China, that has given so
much to the full and rich life, had a
form of marbles that was played four
thousand years before Christ’s birth.

Marbles have captured the fancy of
scriveners through the ages. Daniel
Defoe, who penned Robinson Crusoe
in 1720, wrote the following passage:

“He was so dexterous an artist at

Vincent DeP. Farrell

shooting that little alabaster globe
from between the end of his fore-
finger and knuckle of his thumb that
he seldom missed hitting plumb, as
the boys call it, the marble be aimed
at, though at a distance of two or
three yards.”

Charles Dickens in his Pickwick
Papers refers to the “familiar cry of
‘knuckle down’,” a shooting position
known to all agateers. Too, Mark
Twain’s Huckleberry Finn was an ace
at the art of miggles.

The clergy of England encouraged
the pastime during Lent, when Good
Friday was known as “Marbles Day.”
About 1805, J. B. Finley, a Methodist
prcacher, described an experience at
Cave Ridge, Kentucky, where he saw
at least five hundred people, in a re-
ligious demonstration, on the ground
playing marbles.

It was while playing at marbles with
his son that Vice President Andrew
Johnson was informed that President
Lincoln had been shot.

In current times, during our re-
habilitation program in Fleet City,
California, the navy made wide use of

AUTHOR is recreation instructor, Rut-
gers University, New Brunswick, N. I.

23

marbles as a health helper to our phys-
ically handicapped. Movement was re-
stored to injured joints, fingers and
toes while military mibsters had fun.

Shortly after Berlin had fallen to the
Allies, several American G.I.’s were at-
tracted to a group of ragged young-
sters huddled in a pit in a badly-
blasted area. Upon approaching, they
discovered to their surprise that the
lads were enjoying a marbles match.

The game has a vernacular all its
own and you just have to know the
language if you expect to pick up the
marbles in the end.

Devotees of the glassy globes will
overwhelm you with a chorus of ever-
ees, roundings, dakes, kicks, larrees
and dropsees that will leave you be-
wildered and without “all your mar-
bles” if you are not “hep” to the lingo.

“Everees” is the key word in
knuckle nomenclature. If the shooter
“calls” it, there is little he isn’t permit-
ted to do. He can “hist,” shoot from
an elevated position; “round,” move
his marble in the circle arc; “tee,”
place the shooter on a dirt mound. To
shout “fen-everees” is the defensive
hex supreme. The shooter must
knuckle down on that call.

A Recreation Leader
Rates High
If He“

1. Is always on the job according to
his schedule.

2. Is seen about the playground stim-
ulating play, observing conduct
and acting in a timely manner when
encouragement, admonition or firm
action is indicated.

3. Is active in participating as a lead-
er in the games and events.

4. Displays interest and enthusiasm
in helping children and youth to
derive the greatest value from the
playground.

5.Is forward looking and imagina-

*From a summer program manual,
published in 1950 by the Burbank Rec-

recreation Department, Burbank, Calif.

24

Other bits of terminology include:
“larrees,” last shot; “dakes,” the stakes
risked for keeps in the game; “kicks,”
kicking the Opponent’s marble after hit-
ting it; “babying up,” easy shot for
position; “hardees,” hard shooting;
“fins,” short for everees; “dr0psees,”
assuring second shot if the first sticks
in the box. As you can see, thc basic
language rule of the mibs world is to
add “ees” to anything; the purpose is
to eXpress quickly and firmly exactly
what the Opponent is limited to do.

Although there are twenty-six varia-
tions of the game of marbles, about
seventy-five per cent of the ten million
boys and girls will play the type
known as “ringers” because it is best
suited for tournament competition.
Here thirteen “ducks”
are spread three inches apart on two
eighteen-inch lines crossed in the cen-
ter of a ring ten feet in diameter. All
you mibsters know that the idea is to
knock them out with your “bull’s-eye.”

The game Stone Age, Chaldean,
Egyptian, French, Roman, English and
Indian boys played centuries ago
probably differs very little from the
game that will be played in tourna-
ments all over the world this spring.

“roodles” or

tive in preparation of a program
that encourages participation by
children and youth.

6.-Is faithful in carrying out sched-
ules and programs as announced.

7. Exhibits a zeal for social service
that encourages his desire to serve
in neighborhoods where his service
is needed most and not necessarily
where it is most convenient and
pleasant to serve.

8. Exhibits understanding of the com-
munity of which the playground is
the center and joins with other
agencies in improving the quality
of community living.

9. Maintains an attitude of helpful
and courteous service toward the
public.

10. Uses fully and unselfisth any spe-
cial talents he may have that can
be used to enrich the program or
increase the director’s service.

11. Multiplies himself by recruiting,
training and inspiring volunteer
leaders.

The first national tournamcnt was
held in Jersey City, New Jersey, in
1922; now \Vildwood and Occan City,
New Jersey, and Poconos, Pcnnsyl-
vania, take turns playing host to na-
tional championships.

Recreation directors also give mar-
bles a high priority on the “must” ac-
tivities, for they claim that the game
teaches sportsmanship, quick thinking,
eagerness, fingcr dexterity, poise and
democracy. That sounds like a lot to
learn from pr0pelling pieces of glass,
but when you consider that George
Washington, John Adams and Thomas
Jefferson wcre top mibsters—along
with thousands of our leading citizens
who boast of their prowess with the
little glass balls in their youth-—-—there
may be something in what the recrea-
tion leaders claim.

Berry Pink, the American marhlc
king, points out that no lines are drawn
around the marble ring because of
color, creed, sex or financial standing.
Anybody with a marble handy stands
a chance.

So if you want to get a kick out of
youth in action, step at the marble
ring this spring and watch young
America knuckle down.

12.13 attentive to the “housekecping”
needs and conditions of his play-
ground and building.

13. Shows ingenuity in making the
most out of limited resources.

14. Displays an interest in his profes-
sional advancement along with his
colleagues and takes advantage of

training Opportunities
that are offcred by the department
and by other agencies.

15. Gives full time (forty hours) to
his work and wholehearted inter-
est that is unimpaired by extra-
ordinary responsibilities elsewhere.

16. Adheres intelligently to depart-
ment rules and regulations, fol-

in-service

lows instructions given in the bul-
letin and performs necessary cleri-
cal duties, such as filing reports
an d requisitions, promptly a n d
completely.

17. Joins with other staff members in
“team work” to render the play-
ground service as effective as pos-

sible.

RECREATION

 

Ellen Jean Dilger and Beatrice Spong

TAKE YOUR OLDSTERS
OUT-OF-DOORS

  

..  \
-Liiiiiiiiéiiiflitt
. !!!!!£.!lg|,_

l'

_' ting?

 
  

  
       
  
 
    

    
 
 

  

 
  

' I: I f;  I
. 5x-

 
 

."I

  

H AVE YOU bogged down in your spring program for

your older folks’ club? Here’s an account of a very
special out-of-door program which we found to be a
“highlight,” one that became a springboard for other
outdoor activities.

Because our “Three-Score Club” program was in its
beginning stages, we searched for clues of common
interest, as some of our members are sixty and some
eighty-five! Also, having enjoycd a season of indoor
activity, we felt that a change was necessary.

We, as leaders, are ardent campers. How could we
transfer some of our enthusiasm to the club? How could
we safely take the club out-of-doors? How could we in-
stigate group participation in a new field? What about
the terrain? What about health and safety measures?
What kind of program would be most constructive and
yet be real fun? These were only some of the questions
we asked ourselves. The answers came with careful plan-
ning, research into the physical aspects of such a trip
and a backlog of previous experience in camping with
large groups.

Beginning with the deduction that everyone likes to
eat, we approached the out-of-doors meeting by offering
a day trip, with a noon cook-out. As it was something
thc club had not done as a group, the idea was received
with great gusto, and the prospects of cooking outside
caused a series of happy reminiscences which left us reas-
sured that we could share with them our love for the
out-of-doors. Plans then began to take shape.

APRIL 1951

First, what to cook? Being old hands at the game,
we wondered what suggestions would come from the
group. Because these members had heard of wiener roasts
from their children and grandchildren, it was suggestion
number one. Others suggested a picnic lunch with coffee,
cooked at the site. One of the men, knowing of our
frequent camping trips, asked us what we’d suggest.
Immediately we thought of coffee can cookery. Of
course, they had never heard of it, but were immensely
curious as to how it was done.

If you’ve never eaten a meal cooked in a coffee can,
you just haven’t lived! It’s the answer to any tired
hunter whose day in the open has left him muscle weary
and weak from lack of food. It provides a full meal; it’s
nourishing, quick, easy to do and, above all, really is
good. How simple to ask everyone to come and bring
only a pound coffee can complete with lid! No lugging
of camp equipment, no tricky fire building with trenches
or with reflectors. Just a plain old campfire, enlarged so
that the coals would surround the coffee cans. This was
a wonderful beginning.

The group decided upon various committees to do
the job, while we stood ready to pinch-hit wherever we
were needed. One committee bought the food (Food Com-
mittee); another was called the “Hostess Committee”
and its job was clearly defined so that there would
be no overlapping with the “Clean-Up Committee.” The
men became “Firebuilders,” and a last group took over
planning for, and the name of, “Transportation.”

The date was set by group approval; the place—a state
park twelve miles away, with adequate water facilities.
The wheels began to turn. We helped with the buying
of food, since quantity buying was new to this particular
committee. After checking the personal tastes of the
group, we decided that our meal was to be a pork chop,
cabbage, potatoes, celery, carrots and onions cooked in
the coffee can. For dessert, we would have apple slices

 

Authors are with the Public Recreation Commission in
Evansville, Indiana. MISS DILGER has long been actively
engaged in recreation work in the states of Indiana and
Texas. MRS. SPONG came to Recreation from Girl Scouts.

25

with toasted marshmallows in between (these are called
“Apple Some Mares” and the name appealed to the
group), and coffee, hot rolls and butter. Later they were
to learn that this choice of food left them very little
dishwashing, since the coffee cans are rarely evcr used
a second time and the dessert is strictly finger food.
We used paper cups for coffee and wooden forks and
spoons for table service, so that the only dishwashing in-
volved the utensils used in food preparation.

Thirty members turned out for the evcnt, in low-
heeled shoes, housedresses or slacks, jackets, sun glasses
and equipped with coffee cans. The Transportation Com-
mittee had nine cars ready and waiting,.and our happy
safari began at ten o’clock on a pleasant sunny day,
with just enough air stirring to satisfy everybody.

Upon arrival at Audubon Park in Henderson, Ken-
tucky, we carried our supplies to the lovely stone shelter
house where many long oak picnic tables were placed
around two huge open fireplaces. The Hostess Committee
took over and one table was converted to use for food
preparation—“peeling, washing vegetahles, slicing and
chopping. Another was used for supplies, and two were
used as a dining area. The Firebuilders began at once
to gather wood for both fireplaces. Since the shelter
house was on the lake, there was a brisk breeze blowing
and many of the members thought that an open fire
would be dangerous for there are sections of wooded
areas nearby. We wanted them to be happy in this ex-
perience and agreed to their choice of the shelter house
fireplaces. The fires were started at once and fed with
dry oak until there was a bed of coals in each. This took
at least an hour, for it was eleven-thirty by then.

Meanwhile, the hostesses had called for volunteers to
help with the vegetables, and around that table the ladies
soon were busily working and anticipating this new
method of cooking. Two of them arranged the tables in
the dining area with colorful paper napkins, paper table-
cloths, wooden service and paper coffee cups. When
the hostesses were ready, everyone queued up with his
coffee can and lid, and began by marking the lid with
his name, using wax crayon. Then the line moved down
and the cans were filled, each person taking as much
or as little of any one vegetable as he wished. Typically
though, the given recipe was followed. First one’third of
the can was filled with chopped cabbage, then the pork
chop added, then diced celery, sliced potatoes, sliced
carrots, sliced onions, salt, pepper, one tablespoon bacon
drippings, two to three tablespoons water. The cans were
covered tightly and placed directly into the bed of coals.
We had several pairs of furnace gloves for this, and long
sticks (greenwood) to level the cans. (Also a first-aid
kit—“just in case anyone burned a finger.) One-half hour
is the required cooking time, and that half-hour flew!
Such speculations! “Would the cans, explode?” They
never have! “Won’t the food be burned?” The cabbage,
being a watery vegetable, furnishes moisture enough
to create steam but, to be doubly sure, we added water.
“Will the meat be done?” Yes, steam cooking requires
less time than other types of cooking. “I can’t smell any-

26

thing. Is it cooking?” Just place your stick upon the
lid of the can and feel the vibrations of the cooking in it.

Finally the time came to take out the first can. The
lid was carefully removed, and the delicious odor wafting
upward was promptly absorbed by thirty long “sniffs.”
It looked good; it smelled good; and the meat was as
tender as a mother’s love. The cans had to cool for a few
minutes before they could be handlcd, so the coffee pot
was removed from the fire and the coffee poured by the

hostesses. The rolls were kept in two bun warmcrs near
the fireplace and could be served in them.

We looked at the clock, twelve-fifteen. Just thc right
time for a noon meal. Then we looked around at our
“new-found campers”; there was every evidence of the
happiness for which we’d hoped!

The Clean-Up Committee did a marvelous job. Since
we had purchased a whole loin of pork, several cuts werc
left; these were sold to a member who had a portable
ice box in her car. Two potatoes were used as a prize in
a game, as well as a small amount of chopped cabhage
tied neatly in a waxed paper. The park furnished a wire
basket for the used coffee cans, and napkins, cups, spoons
and forks were burned in the fireplace.

In case you’d like to try this, here is our shopping
list for thirty persons:

4 packs paper cups (32) 3 large heads cabbage

3 packs wooden spoons 2 large stalks celery

(36) 3 large bunches carrots
3packs wooden forks (36) 1 loin of pork, cut into

4- packs tea rolls (48) medium chops

1 pound coffee

2 small cans milk

Roll of waxed paper

2 sticks butter (cut into

slices) bakery

Salt and pepper, furnished Bacon drippings furnishcd

by one member by a member
The utensils we took along were:
2 butcher knives

10 pounds of potatoes

2 pounds onions

1 pound sugar

Napkins, free from a local

4 large open pans

2 bun warmers 8 paring knives (some

Coffee pot members brought own)
Newspapers, for work tables

The club is still alive to the idea of doing something
more out-of-doors. Our next plan is to make our own
tin can stoves as a crafts project and use them for an
outdoor breakfast. We already can hear the squeals of
delight from the club members and, in our most nostalgic
moments, we can smell the bacon sizzling on top of
those number ten tin cans. To cover the expenses of re-
freshments, the club has a free will offerng plan. For the
first outing, we had discussed the cost of the meal and
members wanted to pro-rate the amount. To their amazc’
ment, the whole meal cost only thirLy-sevcn cents for
each, plus twelve cents admission to thc park. We all felt
that it was a profitable investment.

Our recreation superintendent is most enthusiastic
over our Three’Score Club program and points with
some degree of pride to the initial year’s offering and
its promising future.

RECREATION

DON’T GIVE UP--ADAPT/

When the facility for the game just doesn’t seem to work well, don’t give
up! Adapt it! Make a new game with rules, name, diagrams and everything!
That’s what the recreation department of Jacksonville, Florida, does. The fol-
lowing are good examples of what to do 011 a court without baskets—when the
youngsters want to play basketball—or can’t get a volleyball over that high net.

Court Ball

This game was evolved in response
to a need for a game for youngsters,
eight to eleven years of age, on an
arca without basketball baskets.

Court: Sixty feet by thirty feet,
marked as in diagram. Type of Ball:
A basketball is preferred, but a volley-
ball, soccer ball, game ball, bean bag
or wadded bathing suit may be used.
With the last two, dribbling or bounc-
ing is eliminated.

Teams: Six players—three guards,
two forwards, one goalee—who must
confine their play to their own area.

Object of Game: To develop some
of the fundamental skills of basket-
ball by passing, catching and playing
until the ball is caught by the goalee
in the end circle. Defense consists of
preventing Opponents from scoring.

Rules of Play: The game consists of
four five-ininute quarters, with a two-
minute intermission between quarters
and five minutes between halves.

Play is started by the referee who
throws the ball to a guard in the cen-
ter circle, alternating sides at the start
of each quarter. The guard must pass
the ball before leaving the circle. The
ball is then advanced as in basketball.

Fouls: These consist of rough body
contact, such as charging, pushing,
tripping, hacking, shoving, touching
the ball in the possession of an oppo-
nent, stepping on or over a court line
when in_possession of the ball and
causing the ball to go out of bounds.
Penalty for these is the awarding of
the ball to the offended team beyond
the sideline, at the point nearest to the
infraction. Exception: When a guard
invades the goalee’s circle to prevent
a score, the penalty shall be the award
of one point to the side so offended.

Scoring: Each ball caught by a
goalee counts one point for his team.
If a game ends in a tie, any number of

APRIL 1951

one-minute overtime periods shall be
played until the tie is broken. As a
mass game, played without timing, the
winning team is that which is the first
to score fifteen points.

Bound Ball

Court: Size of thc court should be
sixty feet by thirty feet, with a net
in the center, three and one-half feet
high at ends, with the rope drawn tight.
This also may be played without a net,
using a neutral zone of six feet in the
middle of the court. Serves or returns
hitting in this zone, or player stepping
into this zone to play the ball, will re-
sult in the alternation of server as
“side out” is called. Type of Ball: A
playground volleyball.

Teams: A team is composed of six
players. N0 substitute can take the
place of a player until a whistle has
blown declaring the ball dead. Such
player shall report at once to referee.
No change shall be _1nade in the posi-
tions of players when a substitution
is made. A player taken out of the
game may not re-enter same game, but
may play in any subsequent game of
same match. When ball is served, each
player shall be in her own area. After
ball is served, each player may cover
any section of her own court, provided
that she does not crowd or interfere
with other players.

Referee: The referee shall impose all
rules and penalties.

Rules of Play:

1. The order in which teams are
to serve shall be called serving order.
2. The shifting of players in position
shall be called “rotation.”

3. A service is the putting of the ball
into play by the player in the right
back position. The ball is batted over
the net after a bounce into the oppo-
nent’s court in any direction. The ball
must be batted with one hand, either

open or closed, and with both feet

behind the right back line.

4. “Point” s h all be called when
team receiving fails to return the ball.
5. When team serving fails to win its
point or plays ball illegally, it shall be
called “side out.”

6. A player touching the ball or
touched by ball when it’s in play
shall be considered as playing ball.
7. When ball touches any surface out-
side of court, it is out of bounds. Ball
touching boundary line is a good ball.
8. When ball pauses for a moment in
hands or arms of a player, and is not
batted, it shall be considered the same
as catching or holding the ball.

9. Ball shall not be played until it
has bounced once in opponent’s court.

10. A player shall not strike the ball
twice in succession.

11. Each server shall continue to servc
until referee calls “side out,” at which
time service shall alternate.

12. Members of the team receiving
ball for service shall immediately ro-
tate one position clockwise.

Rules of Service: 1. When a served
ball touches the net, passcs under the
net or touches any player, surface or
object before entering opponent’s
court, server is allowed one more
serve. 2. Team losing the previous
game shall have the first service.
3. Teams shall change courts at the
end of each game.

Ball in Play: 1. A ball, other than
a service, touching the top of net and
going over into the opponent’s court
is still in play. 2. A ball, other than
a service, may be recovered from net,
provided that the player avoids touch-
ing net. 3. Ball may be touched
only three times by one team before
being returned over the net.

Scoring: 1. Failure of the receiving
team to return ball legally over the
net shall score one point for the team
serving. 2. A game is won when either
team scores a two—point lead with at
least fifteen or more points.

 

27

 

Open-air checker games attract oldsters to many parks. These Swinging high “twixt earth and sky" still appeals to the younger set who, like
earnest players are oblivious to New York City’s passing throngs. this pleased young miss, throng to the land of the slide, swing and seesaw.

704%  macaw z‘a z‘ée

A kite tournament brings grief to a young Clevelandcr. Lcaders, take heed!
This shows the strong influence recreation activities may have on cmotions.

 

Arts and crafts projects abound; they appeal to all ages. Usually, such
activities are part of daily playground program, as in Charlottesville, W. Va.

 

 

pecial days like HOpalong Cassidy and Grandma Moses Day in
helby, North Carolina, turn playgrounds into make-believe lands.

WWWW

. . . Anyone in the family, from
Lil’ Abner to his Grandpa, is
apt to be caught up in the wide
range of gay“goings-on.” These

 

)aaes )resent '1 few of the man
I D l l . . . y Baseball, loved by all boys, caught in action in Jacksonville, Florida.
colorful acthltles. Recreation leaders heatedly debate the wisdom of midget league play.

 

N ' . .—
I'ennis is most pOpular with young adults Pageants are part of every playground season. Music is needed at all festivals and large affairs.
like these smiling, VVaukesha, lVis., girls. Here clowns are ready for a Brooklyn festival. Schools c00perate in Miami Beach, Florida.

 

APRIL 1951 29

Fl ILMS

 

What should playground leaders
know about the people who use the
playgrounds? How can playground
leaders help aggressive children? How
can playground leaders help backward
children? Can playground leaders plan
programs which will serve needs for
recognition, new experience and so
on? Do the preconceived ideas or
prejudices of playground leaders cre-
ate problems for the children? These
are just a few of the many similar
questions discussed, in the spring of
1950, at the film-stimulated in-service
training program for the permanent
staff of the Division of Playgrounds
and Recreation, Rochester, New York.

For the last four years, the Division
of Playgrounds and Recreation, in co-
operation with the Council of Social
Agencies, has carried on in-service
training programs for the purpose of
helping staff members to acquire skills
which will make them more proficient
in the management of various play-
ground programs. These skills have
included group games, of both high
and low organization, storytelling,
folk dancing, handcrafts and so on.
Prior to this spring, though, very lit-
tle effort had been made to help play-
ground leaders understand what these
programs mean to those who partici-
pate. However, a developing interest
to know more about handling difficult
behavior problems resulted in requests
to have in-service instruction in the
general field of human relations and,
in particular, on such questions as
why some children refuse to partici-
pate in games and what can be done
with anti-social children. In short, the
staff wanted to know more about
group interaction, the emotional needs
of children and causes of delinquency.

To set up a program of instruction

30

for playground leaders in their field is
not easy, since the ideas and concepts
necessary for even a general under-
standing are not easily grasped in the
short time generally allotted to in-serv-
ice training programs. It was decided,
therefore, to use audio-visual aids and
set up a complete instructional pro-
gram in which major reliance would
be placed upon films as the basis for
discussions.l Following through with
this idea, a program of seven films
was planned by the writer with the
help of Norman B. Moore, head of the
Reynolds Audio-Visual Division of the
Rochester Public Library.2

The general purpose of this training
program was to. give the permanent
staff members, in six consecutive dis-
cussions, as much information as pos-
sible about pe0ple——dealing with such
matters as emotional security, anxiety,
aggression, desire for recognition and
response, competition and conflict, and
other information which might give in-
sight into individual needs and group
interaction. It was hoped, also, that by
increasing the playground leadersa
insight into the behavior of children
and others, these leaders might be bet-
ter able to work with groups, with
other staff members and, also know
more about making referrals to other
community agencies of behavior prob-

’See, Johnson, Rex M., Films Teach
People About People, Educational
Screen, October 1949, about a training
program for day camp counsellors.

ssee, Johnson, Rex M., and Moore,
Norman 3., A Report on the Reynolds
Audio-Visual Division of the Roches-
ter Public Library, Journal of Adult
Education, January 1950, about the
work done by this division for the so-
cial agencies of Rochester. .

Rex M. Johnson

teach playground leaders

about pe0ple

lcms which they could not handle.

After careful appraisal, seven films
were chosen: F illns are not available in
this field which deal directly with play-
ground situations. Excellent oncs can
be secured, however, which, in con-
junction with discussions, will help in
giving greater insight into human de-
velopment, the role of the playground
leader in the lives of the children and
the need for c00peration among all
community agencies in handling re-
lated problems of recreation programs.

The films selected were sorted into
three groups. In group one were placed
The Emotional Needs in Childhood
and Life With Junior, films emphasiz-
ing that the basic emotional needs of
children are those of affection, security
an d independence. The discussion
brought out that playground leaders
who are aware of these needs are bet-
ter able to plan programs and to deal
with children on the playgrounds. T he
films also showed that many children
do not accept adult standards of be-
havior willingly—-—hence the need for
an abundance of patience on the part
of those who work with children and
young people. Some of the questions
prompted by the films in this group
were as follows:

1. Are playground leadcrs impor-
tant in the lives of children? Why?

2. Do relationships on playgrounds
affect the behavior of children else-
where? Why?

3. What is meant when it is said
that “bad” behavior is symptomatic?

Group two was made up of two well-
known films: The Feeling of Hostility
and Over-Dependency. They pointed

Author REX M. JOHNSON is secretary
of the Recreation Division of Council
of Social Agencies, Rochester, N. Y.

RECREATION

out the necessity of understanding the
relationships of children with parents,
playmates and others if their behavior
is to be understood. These films also
made clear that “bad” behavior is
symptomatic and that it takes time, pa-
tience and skill to determine causes—
in short, behavior may not be what it
seems. The films in group two, as well
as the discussions, brought out some of
the consequences of child fears, anxi-
eties, desire for recognition and re-
sponse, need for new eXperience, the
problems of competition and conflict.

It was heped that such information
would not only make the staff members
aware of the needs of others, but also
of their own. It was pointed out in
the discussions that playground lead-
ers who are not, to some degree, aware
of their own emotional needs fre-
quently create problems as they work
with children and others on the play-
grounds. The three questions which
follow indicate the type of information
which these films brought out.

1. ls it necessary for peeple in a
democracy to develop feelings of self-
respect? Why?

2. ls it normal to have fears when
facing new situations, i. e., learning
new games, meeting new people, using
new equipment and so on? Why?

3. Should boys be encouraged to
play rough games? Why?

The films, Problem Children, Chil-
dren in Trouble and Make Way for
Youth, were used in group three. The
first film pointed out that those who
work with children should be just as
much interested in helping children
who are shy and backward and not
immediate problems as those who are
aggressive, belligerent and always
problems. While the scenes shown in
this film were those of a school and
classroom, they could be duplicated
over and over on any playground. The
discussion brought out that play-
ground leaders generally regard only
those who are overly-aggressive as
problems, while those who are timid
and shy may, as a matter of fact, also
need a great deal of help.

The films, Children in Trouble and
Make Way for Youth, were spliced
and run as one unit. The first film
pointed out, in dramatic fashion, the
need for close cooperation between all

APRIL 1951

community agencies if children are to
be kept out of trouble. The second
showed how effective young pe0ple can
be in planning programs for them-
selves, as well as can be the entire com-
munity. This film also suggested that
young people constitute a resource for
community planning which few com-
munity leaders—or playground leaders
—use as much as they should. The
following questions were discussed in
connection with these films.

1. Can recreation programs solve
delinquency problems? Why?

2. Should young peeple share in
planning community programs? Why?

3. Can different social and cultural
groups learn to work and play” to-
gether? How?

In preparing to lead this instruc-
tional program, the writer studied all
of the films carefully, saw them many
times and took notes of their con-
tent. Afterwards, guides were prepared
which included information on the
content of the films as well as a brief
introduction to the general problem
under consideration. Before the films
were used, the guides were read and
briefly discussed with the staff. This
was done so that staff members would
have some idea of the significant
points to be covered by the films, as
well as a general frame of reference
for interpreting that which they were
about to see. In other words, a total
showing consisted of (a) a brief intro-
duction to the contents of the films
and the general problems to be con-
sidered, (b) the showing of the films
and (c) a discussion of the films and
the materials presented in the guides.
By following this procedure, it was
possible to bring out the salient points
of each film and to discuss their sig-
nificance for playground leaders.

Films such as these offer an unusual
opportunity for recreation supervisors
to bring to the attention of playground
leaders valuable information which
heretofore has been accessible only in
books—and difficult for the uninitiated
to understand. Films make it possible
to broaden the knowledge of play-
ground leaders, introduce them to
areas of thought which, in turn, may
help in all areas of playground admin-
istration. Other values may accrue.

1. Playground leaders may learn
clearly, interestingly and quickly in-
formation which is difficult to com-
municate by speech alone.

2. Planned film programs give a
great deal of interrelated information
which is not possible in single, unre-
lated film showings.

3. Planned film programs also pro-
vide a common background of infor-
mation which can be shared by the
entire staff. This is helpful to super-
visors when discussing playground
problems with leaders.

4'. Planned film programs on human
relations help playground leaders to
understand that, while it is important
to know how to plan “good” pr0grams,
it is equally important to know some-
thing about themselves and those
whom they serve.

The staff members who shared in
this project were very enthusiastic
about films—not because they made
hard problems easy, but because the
obscure became more clear. It is hoped
that this report may encourage others
to try planned in-service film-stimu-
lated training programs—that is, film
programs with a purpose! And one
purpose which is important for us all
——on playgrounds and off—is that of
gaining a better understanding of the
people with whom we work and play.

PLAYGROUND SUMMER NOTEBOOK 1951

Remember those twelve Ioose-leof bulletins that come weekly eoch yeor to help you
plon your ployground progrom? A new series will be ovoiloble this spring—some

price — $1.50. Subscribe NOW.

Is your 1950 set complete? Need onother set? Complete sets of
the 1950 Summer Ployground Notebook ore ovoiloble ct $1.50

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION

315 FOURTH AVENUE

NEW YORK 10, NEW YORK

31

Helen M. Dauncey

ow ORGANIZATION games are the

backbone of a good playground
program. Surprisingly enough, many
people use this term without being able
to define what it means. These are the
games which do not require a definite
number of players, nor do they require

1'
any spec1fic court or area. They use?pr

a minimum of equipment and are
adaptable to a wide range of ages.
Included in this category are circle
and line games, area chasing and tag
games, relays, quiet games, individual
skill games and group contests.

Such games are valuable because
they develop basic skills which are
necessary to the successful playing of
team games and of sports later on.
They have tremendous appeal for boys
and girls of the seven-to-twelve-year-
old age group—who represent a large
proportion of playground attendance.
They are especially adaptable to the
fluctuating attendance characteristic of
playground youngsters.

It is a wise supervisor who sees that
his leaders are given, in their training
courses, good fundamental preparation
for the leading of low organization
games. The leader who knows dozens
of games—from which he can choose
the ones that are just right for the
weather, the number of children who
are ready to play or the area in which
he has to work—is the one who will
have a successful program and give
the children a happy and interesting
summer. Enthusiasm is contagious and
stimulates a like response. Children
love to play games if they. are pre-
sented in an enthusiastic manner and

32

    

     

.lr  .. .
' I ELI-ELI! -£!§..-!E..:_..

_u~ jih‘imfll mm; 1.331;!

   
 
 
    
 
  

.4  amnesia 

'- lHll’lllllLl' imam-"um

' I
I
II-I_I—I—t II-I— —I—-

itiggifiiiiim “mutant .

    
 

..__- -. ..‘ _._._-
HH—‘_-. -—.-—-__ ‘

/  VI  “'"'

W" GIMP...» ICI‘F'-*QJ‘-,-¢ .

it"

P

I
I
‘J I’M“ " a-l‘""'

1"“?

if the games chosen are suitable for
their age group, their skills and the
number of players involved. Good
leadership is important.

It is important that the play leader
be familiar with the characteristic be-
havior of youngsters at certain age
levels, so that he may know what to
expect. We know that six and seven-
year-olds are still pretty strong little
individualists who have great energy
and show bursts of activity. They are
noisy, quarrelsome and not good los-
ers; their span. of interest is short. They
thrive upon praise and approval and
enjoy simple, uncomplicated games.

We know that the next two or three
years will bring great differences.
Their endurance will bc greater, skills
will be increased and there will be a
definite drift from individual to co-
operative games. Games with chasing,
running, rivalry, dares and risks are
the ones which they will like best. Thc
girls like the same games, and do them
as well, as the boys.

In the next two years we will see
the sex and psychological difTerences
bctween the boys and girls become

0-9 v" - *o._” M"-

_.._.__ __ _ 2_ _ w4......--,.._.._ __

tA verse/v p

\\ ‘

...--"I1'"~1 dd

more pronounced and considerablc
rivalry develop between the two sexcs.
In games where skill is emphasized
rather than strength and endurance,
the girls play as well as the boys.

Preparation

Know the game thoroughly. Have a
clear understanding of its object, of
the rules of play, the penalties, how
to score and so on. This requires more
than a casual reading of rules or in-
structions. Choose play space so that
it does not interfere with other ac-
tivities.

Be sure to have ready any play ma-
terial which will be needed. If the
game is a quiet one, be certain that
the players are comfortably seated. If
it requires a goal line, he sure this is
marked or designated in order to save
endless arguments about whcther or
not a player was “safe.”

Motivation

Make it sound interesting and as if
it were going to be fun for you as well
as for them. Even the name of the
game can create interest. Childrcn like
to play “Blondie and Dagwood” more
than “Jacob and Rachel”—although it
is the same game. The “F.B.I.” or
“Dick Tracy” game is more exciting
than “Keen Eyes.” Childrcn love sur-
prises and the introduction of a new

 

Miss Helen Daancey, of the training
staf] of the NRA, is the Katherine F.
Barker Memorial Field Secretary on
Recreation for Women and Girls.

RECREATION

twist to the familiar. You can really
sell a game by your voice, your eyes
and your general enthusiasm.

Organization

Don’t be afraid to start with only a
few players. Curiosity about what you
are doing or playing will bring others
to join the fun. It usually is better to
get players into formation for the
game before starting an explanation.
This cuts down the time between ex-
planation and action—which is very
important.

Choose clever children to start a new
game in order to give the slower ones
a chance to catch on. Use different and
novel methods of counting out, choos-
ing sides or selecting captains.

Explanation

Stand where everyone can see and
hear you; you often get better atten-
tion if the children sit down and you
stand. Make the eXplanation as brief
as possible and save words by demon-
strating. Remember that intcrest is sus-
tained by having action follow quickly
after the explanation.

Name the game, tell what the object
is—how you do it; give an oppor-
tunity for questions and then start!
Use hand signals to get attention and
keep the whistle for games where it is
needed as a part of the game.

Participation

It may be necessary for the leader
to participate in the game at the be-
ginning, to get things started. If so,
take an inconspicuous part and gradu-
ally step out. It is more important for
you to watch the playing to see
whether it is too slow and needs to be
speeded up or whether it is too com-
plicated and needs to be simplified.
Also, it gives you an opportunity to
encourage the shy players, praise good
playing and see that one or two players
are not dominating the game. In this
way, you can make every child feel
that he is part of the game and see
that he has fun as well as exercise.

Learn to make quick decisions.
Know the rules and enforce them.
When it is possible, without spoiling
the point of the game, use penalties
instead of eliminating players. At the
close of the game, all those with three
or more points scored against them

APRIL 1951

can pay a group forfeit.

Evaluation

Ask yourself, or your leaders, the
following questions:

Did the children enjoy the game?

Was it a good choice for the num-
ber of players and the age group?

Did it awaken alertness by {quicken-
ing the senses of hearing and seeing?

Did it develop reasoning and judg-
ment?

Did it teach the basic skills of run-
ning, dodging, throwing, catching and
so on?

Did every child have a chance to
participate?

Did the children have a chance to
make suggestions?

Did the playing of the game con-
tribute to character building by teach-
ing sportsmanship, courtesy and re-
spect for the rights of others?

Did it have carry-over value? Was
it a game that the children could play
by themselves at home or in their
backyards with their own friends?
Was it a game that could be played
for family fun around the supper ta-
ble—-—a quiet game, stunt or trick?

Was the game changed at the peak
of interest, or played too long so that
the children began to drop out?

In presenting any game material on
the playground, it is well to remember
that you are leading children first and
games second. It is what is happening
to the child as he plays that should be
of the greatest concern to the leader.
Always be on the lookout for the shy,
timid child who needs your encour-
agement to build up his confidence be-
fore he can take his place in the group.

The most important job of the
leader is to help a child develop his
ability to get along well with others
and be accepted by them. His happi-
ness depends upon this. The child who
says he doesn’t like to play games is
usually the one who does poorly at it
and is afraid of the criticism and cen-
sure of his playmates. Whatever the
leader can do to give him practice and
to encourage the slightest evidence of
improvement may be very far-reaching
in its results.

Games, of course, are but one part
of a well-rounded playground pro-

gram; however, in my observation
of programs, there is too little offered
between the games for little children
and the team games for older boys
and girls. When a man play leader
says: “My boys don’t want to play
anything but baseball,” it is usually
because that is the game he knows
best and, too often, he does not en-
courage them to try anything else.

The following are a few low-organ-
ization games which you may not
have used:

Circle Games

SWAT. For fifteen to twenty players,
ages nine to twelve.

Equipment. A folded newspaper, a
box or number ten tin can in the cen-
ter of the circle.

Formation. Players stand in a cir-
cle, one in the center is “It.”

Action. “It” gocs up to someone and
swats him with the folded newspaper
on the side of the thigh. He then turns,
runs to the center of the circle and
places the paper swatter upright in
the box. The person who was hit fol-
lows him and the object of the game
is for the second person to get the pa-
per quickly and swat “It” before he
reaches the vacant place in the circle.
If he is successful, “It” has to be “It”
again; if he fails, the second person
is “It” the next time.

PASS IT. For same number of players
as above, same age group.

Equipment. A folded newspaper,
towel or swatter.

Formation. Players stand close to-
gether in a circle, with both hands in
back of them. One player is “It” and
stands in the center.

Action- The swatter is passed in
back from person to person, either to
the right or to the left. The object of
the game is for “It” to guess correctly
where the paper is. He does this by
pointing to a player who must imme-
diately show both hands in front of
him. If the guess is correct, they
change places, but if incorrect, the
game continues. Add interest by hav-
ing players reach out and hit “It”
whenever his back is turned to the
player holding the swatter.

Line Games

SLAP TAG. For fifteen to twenty-five
players, ages nine to fourteen.

33

Formation. Two teams line up fac-
ing each other about fifteen or twenty
fect apart.

Action. Players of Team A extend
their hands in front with palms up. A
player from Team B crosses over to
Team A and goes down the line, touch-
ing each pair of hands. When this
player decides which member of Team
A he wishes to tag, he hits that per-
son’s hands not only on top, but on top
and underneath. He immediately runs
back to his own line, chased by the
player whom he hit twice. If the player
from Team B reaches his line without
being tagged, he is safe. If he is
tagged, he becomes a member of Team
A. The chaser from Team A then taps
the hands of Team B and the game
continues. The team having the largest
number of players at the end of the
game wins.

F.B.I. GAME. Use the same number
of players as above, same age group.

Formation. Players stand in two
lines facing each other.

Action. Each person observes closely
what the one opposite is wearing.
Team A is told to turn around and
Team B is given a minute to make
some change in costume—untie a shoe
lacing, unbutton a button, turn a belt
around and so forth. Team A then
turns around and each person on the
team, in turn, is given one guess as
to what the change was. One point is
scored for each correct guess. The
second time the game is played, the
opposite team does the changing.

HUNTER, GUN AND RABBIT. Same
number of players as above. The fun
in this game lies not so much in what
the players do, as in how they look
when they are doing it. Two teams try
to out-guess each other in choosing the
word which scores highest.

Scoring. The word “Hunter” scores
over “Gun” (because the hunter can
control the gun). “Gun” scores over
“Rabbit” (because the gun can kill the
rabbit). “Rabbit” scores over “Hunt-
er” (because the rabbit can run fast

and escape). If both teams assume the
same pose, no score is made.

Positions. Hunter —— arms f0 1 d e d
upon chest. Gun—arms extended as

though holding gun. Rabbit—hands
placed upon head like ears of rabbit.
Action. To play the game, the two

34

teams line up facing each other about
ten or fifteen fcet apart. The first per-
son in each line is the captain and
decides upon the word. He goes down
his team telling each person what it
is, then stays at thc foot of the line.
At the signal of the leader, each team
takes the position of the word given
by his captain, and the one with the
higher word gets a point. Number two
then becomes a captain and so on, so
that each person has a chance to de-
cide upon the word. Play for the first
line to get eight points or other pre-
determined score. After players are
familiar with the game, penalize the
teams for any errors in pantomime.
(If everyone is doing “Gun” except
one careless player, who is doing
“Rabbit,” his team loses the point
even though one word outrated the
other.)

Running and Chasing Games

SQUIRREL IN TREES. (A variation)
Any number of players, ages seven to
ten.

Formation. Players are scattered
over the playing area in groups of
three. Two of them oin hands to make
a tree and the third player is the
squirrel inside of the tree. Two extra
squirrels are in the center of the play-
ing area.

Action. At the signal—either a whis-
tle or a clap—all squirrels change trees
and, while they are running, the extra
squirrels try to get a tree. The two
left out stand in the center the next
time. Encourage players to cross the
playing area, not to run to the nearest
tree. Change trees and squirrels fre-
quently so that all have a chance to
run.
OUCH! For fifteen to thirty-five
players, ten to fourteen years of age.

Formation. A long line of players
with hands joined, ready to walk for-
ward. An odd player is the catcher
and stands facing the line, about ten
feet away.

Action. The line starts walking for-
ward; the catcher walks backward. As
the line walks, the first person squeezes
the hand of of the second player who
passes the action down the line. When
the last person gets the squeeze, he
may call “Ouchi”, whereupon they all
turn and run for the goal line—pur-

sued by the catcher. Anyone hc suc-
ceeds in tagging becomes his helpcr
and leaves the line. The last player
who calls “Ouch!” may wait some time
before calling, but may not say it be-
fore he gets the squeeze.

An Active Team Game

EVADE BALL. Thirty to sixty players
may participate. This game is espc-
cially good for older boys, but may be
played with a mixed group of boys
and girls twelve years of agc and up.
A volleyball is used.

Formation. Players are divided into
three equal groups, or teams. Team I
and 11 form the side lines facing each
other about twenty-five feet apart.
Team III is the running team and
players are numbered consecutively.

X Coal X
X X
X X
Team X X Team
I X X II
X X
X X
X X
X l
X 2
X 3
X 4 Team
X 5 III
X 6
X 7
X 8

Action. To begin the play, the ball
is thrown to one of the sidc teams.
Player one, on the running team, im-
mediately starts running between thc
two teams, around the goal and back
to the starting line. He scores one
point if the run is successful and he
has not been hit. If he is hit during
the running, he steps out of the way
and number two on his team starts to
run. When the entire team has run,
the score is added. Team III then re-
places Team I; Team I goes ovcr to
replace Team II; Team II becomes the
running team (clockwise progression).

Rules. No fielder may throw the ball
from in front of his line.

No fielder may hold the ball morc
than three seconds.

No hits may be above the waist of
the runner.

RECREATION

GERMAN LEADERS
3W zmemfc'm
(in (do Waited Siam

(Continued from RECREATION, March 1951.)
Donald B. Dyer, Director, Depart-

ment of Municipal Recreation, Mil-
waukee Public Schools, Wisconsin.—
We have had German visitors upon
two occasions—one a professor from
a Berlin teachers’ college interested in
physical education and recreation, and
two male university students who do
part-time recreation work in Germany.
One was interested in YMCA work and
the other in architecture. A member of
our staff devoted practically all of her
time to planning the program for these
visitors.

They were shown all phases of the
public recreation department program;
time was spent in giving them the his—

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

Recreation authorities who are
interested in the possibility of
having one or more German
leaders assigned to them in 1951
are advised to communicate with
the German Leadership Project,
Youth Division, National Social
Welfare Assembly, 134 East 56th
Street, New York 22, New York.

 
 

tory and philosophy of the depart-
ment; schedules were prepared for vis-
its to private agencies; and they were
taken on tours of some of our large in-
dustrial concerns. An effort was made
to give them some of the cultural back-
ground of America through attendance
of dramatic and musical productions,
visits to art galleries, the museum, the
library, the schools and so on. We tried
to show them how the programs of
public and private agencies, as well as
their facilities, were coordinated.
Our visitors were very appreciative

APRIL 1951

of our efforts. We believe that they
benefited from their visit to Milwaukee
and that we have made a contribution
to a worthy project. We are willing to
cooperate with other such projects.

if 'I' 4!

Henry D. Schubert, Superintendent
of Recreation, Dearborn, Michigan.—
Three German youth leaders visited
Dearborn during the spring and sum-
mer of 1950. One came from Berlin,
one from Bavaria and the third repre-
sented the Heidelberg district. Each
worked with youth in his own territory
but in a- different manner. Although
various experiences and backgrounds
were represented, each was in search
of more complete ways of helping his
countrymen.

Actual American experiences and
participation helped teach them our
way of democracy in education, recre-
ation, sports and leadership.

Our “tot lot” program appealed
most to the visitor from the large city.
Consideration of similar play lots was
in his first recommendation upon re-
turning home.

One German youth leader reached
Dearborn in time to sit in on our sum-
mer program organization meeting.
Here he observed our method of reach-
ing decisions and attended all sessions
of our leaders’ workshop.

All three visitors had had camping
experience, but the idea of municipal
year-round camping was new to them.
They had an opportunity to experi-
ence our democratic camping program
for our city’s children.

Dearborn, its people and our staff
were left with a better understanding
of the German people and their ways.

 

 

athletic bulls

You can depend upon famous

Wilson INDESTRUCTO
Rubber Covered Athletic Balls
to give the acme in performance
and the maximum in long life.
No rubber covered balls

made can outwear them—

or give more satisfactory
service in any way. Sold by
leading sporting goods

dealers everywhere.

 113103011

TODAY IN SPORTS EQUIPMENT

Wilson Spomng Goods Co, Chicago
Brunch offices in New York, Sun Froncisco

and 26 other principal cities
{A subsidiary of Wilson & Co., Inc.)

35

here

(307726

the

PUPPETEERS!

Margaret D. Blickle

l HE ART of puppetry, which grew

from a religious hackground,
found its way into theatres, into fairs,
appeared and disappeared, I o n e -
wolfed it through many countries, was
condoned and condemned, now finds
itself again in America as one of the
most popular forms of amusement. At
present it appears' in theatres of its
own, in private entertainment, in night
clubs, vaudeville, churches, on tele-
vision and on playgrounds. It runs the
gamut from highly professional shows
to the most amateur of performances;
but no matter what kind of a puppet
show is given, a crowd always gathers.
Its appeal is universal as well as age-
less. The tiny child looks with awe
upon the figures taking life before his
eyes, just as the oldster gazes with un-
feigned interest and amusement at the
puppet°s antics. It is recreation both
from an audience’s and a puppetcer’s
point of view.

The Columbus, Ohio, Recreation
Department has tried out the various
potentialities of the puppets with a
traveling show and found it a com-
plete success. While no recreation pro-
gram is carried out with amusement
as its only aim, a puppet show can mas-
querade as such and still, in so doing,
inspire many children in the audience
to try a similar project involving a
great deal of work, ingenuity and cre-
ative activity along a number of lines.
Yet to them it spells not work, but fun
and fancy. They may dream up a pup-
pet show in its simplest form or they

36

may plan and execute a very elaborate
production with costumes, scenery and
lighting. In fact, the traveling puppet
show has proved itself a springboard
for any number of these activities.

In Columbus, we have made the
children very puppet conscious and,
of course, TV has helped; hut a live
show is quite different from a TV
puppet show, and each supplements
the popularity of the other. At the he-
ginning of the summer season, an
announcement is made by the depart-
ment that a puppet show is available
to the various playgrounds. Naturally,
there are more requests for it than
can easily be filled. A schedule is
made out, however, and the show is on.

We believe that the first puppet
show should be a professional one. It
can be followed later by the children’s
own productions. It should be manipu-
lated by experienced puppetcers, who
are equipped to meet the situations
which may arise on a playground.

They must be ready for any emcr-
gency. Puppetry on a playground is
not a cut and dried thing. The show
may be given to the accompaniment
of a rumbling truck and the passing
of traffic, or it may be interrupted hy
a roaring train or a dipping airplane.
The puppeteer must know when to use
pantomime and when his voice can
be heard above the noises or interrup-
tions. He sometimes can turn the dis-
advantages into advantages if he has
had enough show experience. He must
always be ready to meet production

 

difficulties. He often will find himself

giving a show in the broiling sun, with
the children sitting on the grass—fin
the shade if possible. Out in the 0pcn,
the wind may be whipping from the
back or the front of the stage, neces-
sitating the use of sandbags to anchor
it. On the other hand, the stage may be
set Up in a playground shelter where
available electricity adds more color

and sound to the production. Anything
is possible on the playground! Audi-

ences vary from the football team to
the kindergarten tot. Mothers
fathers flock to the puppet show; and

and

there arc all of the various reactions
of the heterogeneous ages. An experi-
enced puppetcer‘ can, and must, gear
his performance to these dichrcnt ages
and tastes.

The enjoyment of a puppet show is
not all one-sided. The audicnce has
no more fun than the puppetcer. Our
experiences when giving the shows
have been priceless. At one timc, many
of the children were sure to ask where
the “puppies” were; but now, with the
p0pularity of Kukla, Fran and Ollie,
most of them know what a puppet is.

However, they are not always sure
how a puppet works. There arc thosc
wide-eyed children who
come up to the puppctecr and shyly
accuse him of talking for the puppet.

sometimes

MRS. BLICKLE has been in charge 0/
dramatics and puppetry on Columbus
playgrounds [or the last three years.
Above, she introduces two favorites.

RECREATION

When we look at the child and think
that he still believes in Santa Claus,
we usually reassure him by saying:
“But didn’t you hear the puppet talk?”
The answer is always “Yes,” though
sometimes, still a bit on the doubtful
side. We believe in going along with
the child. It may not be the time to
shatter his illusions. We learned this
the hard way one time, when we were
presenting a marionette show in which
a fairy flitted and glittered about the
stage. After the play we allowed the
children to come backstage to see the
puppets. The day afterwards, we re-
ceived a phone call from a father who
said, “I don’t think you should allow
the children backstage!” He explained
that his little four year old son had
been found that day, in the haystack,
crying broken-heartedly. Upon investi-
gation, the little boy said, “But it
wasn’t a real fairy. I thought it was
real and it was only a doll.”

Of course, in dircct contrast to such
a child, we often have the gadget-
minded little boy who wants to see
how the pr0ps work. We always show
him. Those are the things that intrigue
him and inspire him to build his own
show. Then there are the children who
come up to tell us about the puppet
that they have at home. We listen to
them and encourage them to go home,
take the puppet out of its box and
give a performance.

out the names of a few of the chil-
dren—preferably the shyer ones. This
never fails to delight and mystify the
young audiences—and some of the
older audiences, too. No audience has
loved it more than the Golden-Agers.
At one performance, the clown looked
down at his entrancing audience of
little Negro folks who had drcssed es-
pecially for the occasion. One little
tot caught his eye, and he made the
remark that he loved little girls—es-
pecially the one right in front with
the white dress and the pink bow in
her hair. He threw her a kiss. The
child jumped up, clasped her hands
together in an ecstatic gesture, turned
to her companions and said: “Oh, do
you hear him—he’s talking to me. He’s
talking to me!”

In our playground shows, we al-
ways capitalize on this audience par-
ticipation. We quite often have our
puppet try to sing a song which is
apparently unfamiliar to him. The
audience is always delighted with the
opportunity to be able to help the pup-
pet out of his dilemma. Again, we have
tried to have our animals learn a trick
—the trick of counting, for instance.
The children become hilarious over the
lion’s unsuccessful attempt to count to
ten, and they are most anxious to
help him by counting very slowly for
him until he learns the art. We have
even tried to make the lion learn a

amount of advice from home or from
the playground leader.

We have found an in-hetween age
on the playground, members of which
hate to be caught looking at the pup-
pet show even out of the corner of the
eyes. These are the self-conscious teen-
agers. They’re a bit afraid that this
is child’s entertainment, and they
haven’t yet reached that older age
which has discovered in fairy tales a
new interest outside of a child’s world.
Consequently, we often saw the teen-
agers lurking on the outside fringe of
the p11ppet show, only looking at it
when they thought nobody was notic-
ing them, until we found a.way to in-
trigue them also. It was with a few
trick marionettes. We do not attempt
to carry a marionette stage with us
since such a stage involves a too com-
plicated set-up for the playground.
However, a few trick marioncttes can
be unfurled before the teen-agers, and
the very“ intricacy and beauty of the ‘
puppets—a juggler who juggles balls,
a dancer who looks like a movic star
and dances fancy steps, a cyclist who
wheels about on a unicycle—never
fail to bring the boys and girls
around. After this introduction to the
puppet world, apparently, the first
puppets do not seem too simple to
watch. The older boys and girls for-
get their inhibitions and laugh with
the rest of the children and adults.

"-

I

. H"

We believe that the children should

enter into the spirit of the affair, and
we contrive our playground perform-
ances for this reaction. The puppets
talk to the children, although, in many
cases, this has had near disastrous
effects when some of the children
have answered them with rowdy en-
thusiasm. However, there are other
moments of sheer delight when the
child responds with the expected, or
better yet. with the completely unex-
pected comment or question. Our
clown, who is the narrator, often calls

APRIL 1951

a"  WI 5:

I
I-

multiplication table and the children
obligingly help him.

It always is easy to throw in a few
useful hints about safety on the play-
ground, without the children feeling
that they are being “preached at.” In
fact, they quite often make helpful
suggestions themselves. We have a
dragon who calls attention, although
he doesn’t need to, to his beautiful
white teeth, and he’s very proud of his
immaculately-kept claws. Children are
much more impressed by the dragon’s
phiIOSOphy of cleanliness than by any

" ' ' f  . ' .‘s...
9: I:
'1"

'4 ' -,
n m.

 

Later, this interest can be useful when
scenery needs to be constructed.
Playground entertainment 5 h o u l d
have some ulterior motive and that is
exactly what we plan. Very seldom is
a show given that doesn’t galvanize
the children into action. They want to
build a puppet. They want to have a
puppet show. All kinds and types of
puppets have been inspired through
playground trouping: potato puppets,
rod puppets, paper sack puppets and
the more durable types. One play-
ground dreamed up a style show, with

37

1;, .-

 

the clothespin puppets in the most clab-
orate costumes of crepe paper. Some of
the boys who became very interested
in the project made a stage from a box
and rigged up Christmas trce lights
which were quite adequate for light-
ing the slim figures. A narrator ex-
plained the occasion for which each
costume should be worn. Practically
every child on the playground knew
the narrator’s part and there were
many operators for each puppet.

On another playground, where dis-
cipline had become somewhat of a
problem, a puppet show became so
all-engrossing that the children were
entirely too busy to get into any mis-
chief. They read several stories and
decided to dramatize The Elephant’s
Child. By the time they all had par-
ticipated in reconstructing the story
into a workable script, not even Mr.

Kipling himself would have recognized

g, ""

LOUISVILLE SLUGGER BATS

his work. (Most of the children felt
that they had greatly improved the
original script.) The stage was con-
structcd after much drawing, erasing,
fitting and nailing; the screen was
made from thin muslin after discarded
paper and unbleached muslin had been
tried. The shadows were cut from
heavy construction paper; the scenery
was cut, abandoned and out again;
lines were memorized; and the puppet
show was presented many times with
great enthusiasm and success.

Many of the playgrounds made pup-
pets from papier-mache, while others
made them from the more durable
and very cheap substance of sawdust
and wheat paste (enough sawdust add-
ed to a thick wheat paste to form a
putty-like substance that can easily be
molded). All kinds of talents were
called into play—sewing, drawing,
molding, painting, carpentry, electrical

FOR BASEBALL AND SOFTBALL

38

ability, dramatic talent, writing abil-
ity. Original shows were written; fairy
and other folk tales werc adapted with
a few ad lib lines added. As a result,
a great nunlbcriof children felt re-
sponsible for the final success.

On one or two playgrounds, a simi-
lar project was started but not car-
ried through. After the puppets were
made, a show was never given. Natu-
rally, where this was allowed to hap-
pen, the whole project lost much of its
value. Children should be encouraged
to finish any undertaking, since thc
satisfaction gained from carrying a
project to a successful conclusion can-
not be overestimated.

As a recreation project for play-
grounds or centers, it is difficult to
conceive a crafts project which will
call into play more creative energies
in a wider variety of fields than the

art of puppetry.

: ' '  . l f __ I j  _ _
r. - " "777‘ '7 I

W 232% HMOIIS/

 

RECREATION

0PERATING POLICIES

 

AT PUBLIC SWIMMING PO0LS

 

VALUABLE INFORMATION upon the
policies adopted by public au-
thorities in the operation of swimming
pools in Indiana cities for the summer
of 1950 has been assembled by the
Board of Park Commissioners of Fort
Indiana. The information
gathered in the study is factual, and
the report makes no attempt to ap-

Wayne,

praise the procedures or to relate them
to standards of pool operation and
service. The study affords a picture,
however, of the policies in effect in
twenty-five cities. In two of the cities,
figures relate to indoor pools; in the
others, they are based upon outdoor
facilities.

Practically all of the pools are open
afternoons and evenings five or six
days per week. In only nine cities are
they open during the morning hours.
The closing hours in the evening vary
from seven to ten p.m., a majority of
the pools being open until nine p.m.
The cities operating pools in the morn-
ing open them at either nine or ten
a.m.; two-thirds of the pools do not
close during the noon hour.

Practice varies with reference to
Saturday and Sunday operation. A few
pools close on Saturday at the end of
the afternoon. Most pools are not open
until early afternoon on Sunday and a
few are closed on Sunday evening.

The swimming season starts early in
June in twelve cities; on Memorial Day
in eight cities. The two indoor pools
are operated the year round. Pools are
closed for the season in eighteen cities
during the first week in September; in
five, they close at the end of August.

Children are not charged admission
at any time at the pools in five cities.
In others, an admission fee for chil-
dren is charged either at all times or
during specified hours, and it generally

APRIL 1951

varies from ten to twenty-five cents. In
four cities, the fee on Saturday after-
noon and Sunday is higher than at
other times, the maximum amount be-
ing thirty-five cents in one of them.
The rate varies according to the chil-
dren’s ages in two cities.

Adults may use pools without charge
in four cities, one of these having an
indoor pool. The rate for adults varies
from ten to fifty cents. In seven cities,
it is less than thirty cents; in eleven
cities, between thirty and fifty cents.
Only three cities report a higher fee
for adults on week ends.

Eleven cities report the use of sea-
son tickets, with separate rates for
children and adults in most cases. The
season ticket fee for children varies

from $2.50 to $4.80, while adult rates
vary from $4.25 to $6.90, with four
cities charging a $6.00 fee. Family
season tickets are sold in six cities at
from twelve dollars to fifteen dollars.
Only one city sells a ticket good for
ten admissions.

A majority of the Cities do not pro-
vide a suit rental service. In the nine
reporting such service, the rate varies
from fifteen to thirty-five cents, with
four cities charging twenty-five cents.
Two cities require a deposit of one
dollar and fifty cents respectively.
Towels are not rented in eleven cities.
In the thirteen that do so, a ten-cent
fee is most common.

Eleven of the cities that report
charging admission to their pools offer
some free periods. A few make no
morning charge from Monday through
Friday or Saturday. Some do not
charge children for morning swims;
a few have permitted free swimming
only two or three mornings per week.

The rate of pay for lifeguards varies
from $100 to $175 per month in the

ten cities reporting pay on a monthly
basis; in most cases, the amount is
closer to the lower figure. Twelve cities
report an hourly lifeguard rate of
from fifty cents to one dollar, with
seventy-five cents per hour as the rate
most frequently offered.

Checkroom attendants are paid ap-
preciably less than the lifeguards in
most cities, with several cities report-
ing a rate of only fifty cents per hour.
Cashiers receive little more than the
checkroom attendants and, in most
cities, were paid less than the life-
guards. The hourly rates vary from
fifty to eighty cents per hour. The
highest monthly rate was $155, some
cities paying less than one hundred

dollars.

In answer to a question as to the
length of life of diving boards, a great
variety of answers was received. At
the two indoor pools, one replied one
year; the other, five years. Seven cit-
ies report that their diving boards last
for two years; five, for only one year;
three report one-and-one-half to two,
three and five years respectively.

Eight cities report that they paint
their pools every year; three, that
they paint them every two years; and
two, that the job is done within three-
year intervals. Two other widely di-
vergent replies are “every three weeks”
and “every twenty years.” Pools are
not painted in five cities.

The use of white cement paint is
reported in five cities; aluminum
paint and Interol in two cities each;
ramuc enamel and a chlorinated rub-
ber base in one city each.

Other,- questions in the survey re-
lated to the amounts of chemicals and
the swimmer load, but the answers
have value only in relation to the in-

dividual pools.
39

6

2mm

Grace Walker

eREATIVE RECREATION is, first of

all, a point of view, a belief, a
philosophy. It begins with the assump-
tion that man is naturally creative;
and, with his mind, body and emo-
tions—-his c r e a t i v e equipment—if
given opportunity, he is able to de-
velop and enrich life. Drama, choral
speaking, music and the dance are
some of the special activities through
which creative experiences and enrich-
ment may come. There are, however,
a few definite approaches which a
leader of thesc activities must take
into account if the most valuable re-
sults are to be obtained by participants.

1. Always, the approach must be
one of lightness and fun, never a do-
or-die attitude.

2. There must be no sense of outer
compulsion but, rather, such strong
motivation that the participants will
feel a vital inner desire for the ex-
perience.

3. There should be, on the part of
the leader, an awareness of the ulti-
mate objective in terms of growth and
development.

The role of the leader in a creative

 

GRACE WALKER is one of the recreation
leadership specialists on the stag of
the National Recreation Association.

40

program is especially important. “It
is of prime importance,” says Ruth
Radir,* “that the leader shall have a
clearly-defined goal. This goal is found
in the business of providing depth of
experiences that lead to emotional
and social maturity and breadth of ex-
periences that bring groups into their
cultural heritage.”

The following three questions, on
the part of the leader, may serve as a
point of departure in formulating pro-
gram procedure and in moving ahead
toward his goal:

A. What do I desire to accomplish in
mental, physical and emotional growth
for the group?

B. Why do I desire to accomplish
this?

C. How shall I, through program and
activities, accomplish it?

Question “A” should be both gen-
erally and specifically tabulated; ques-
tion “B” answered by needs observed
through knowledge of background and
environment of participants; question
“C” should designate the “how” of
techniques, skills and activities.

Choral Speaking

Choral speaking, an excellent exam-

 

*Modern Dance, by Ruth Radir.

ple of a creativc program activity, is
thc art of group reading or speaking.
It is comparable to group singing, cx-
cept that thc process of communicat-
ing an idea is accomplished through
speech rather than with song. As a
group activity, it may servc many pur-
poscs and givc many satisfactions.
The following are a few examples:

1. An unlimited number may par-
ticipate.

2. It is a perfect group device for
teaching a cooperative and unified ac-
tivity.

3. The timid develop 0 o u r a g c
through group expression.

4. Better speech and diction, for
day-to-day communication, result.

5. It prcsents a good opportunity
for group responsibility in program
development.

6. It is an appropriate and excellent
device for use in club, camp, church,
school, community programs.

Kinds of material to be used in
choral speaking activities include:

1. Highly rhythmic.

2. Easy to read (on each age level).

3. Fun material.

4. Dramatic material.

5. Imaginative and beautiful selec-
tions.

6. That offering possibility of incor-

porating movements of dance, music.

The following suggestions for choral
speaking are in no way a sum total
of what may be formulated and car-
ried forward in such a program but,
rather, are a few notations taken from
one person’s experience. A multitude
of ways of progressing toward creative
expression through use of this activity
is open to any leader.

The delightful possibilities of choral
speaking for the very young is predi-
cated upon two facts: that young chil-
dren are aware principally of thcir
bodies and, therefore, all material used
should call for highly rhythmic move-
Inents; and that young children de-
velop motor-skills, thinking and feel-
ing best in group situations.

A few familiar jingles for the vcry
young include:
Boom, boom, beat the drum,
Boom, boom, here we come,
Boom, boom, do not lag,
Boom, boom, wave the flag.

RECREATION

Procedure: The rhythm of the jun-
gle is felt by the group through the
beating of the drum and the waving
of the flag. To this movement march-
ing may be added.

Two Little Blackbird:

Two little blackbirds sat on a hill,
One was named Jack, the other Jill,
Fly away Jack,

Fly away Jill,

Come back Jack,

Comc back Jill.

Procedure: Divide the group into
two sections designated “Jack” and
“Jill.” Deve10p rhythmic pattern by
clapping or finger tipping. On the
four short lines, the rhythmic pattern
is completed by the action of flying
away and back. Example:

“Fly away Jack.” Group flies away.
“Come back Jack.” Group comes

back.

Poems with a refrain and with

sound effects are good for the very
young.

Lcader—Whoo, whoo, hoots the
owl.

ChildrenHWhoo, whoo.

Leaderw—Moo, moo, lows the cow.

Children—Moo, moo.

Leader-“Coo, coo, calls the dove.
ChildrenHCoo, coo.

A little two-line poem in which
children find their beds and go to

sleep also is fun:

Creep to sleep
Teeny sheep
Creep to sleep
Teeny sheep
Creep to sleep
Teeny sheep
Sleep, sleep,
Sleep.

Children repeat the
poem and, as they have the urge to
go creeping off to find a bed, they do
son—always walking in rhythm. Every
movement should be rhythmic. The
leader, through her own reading, at
the last establishes the feeling of
rhythmic quietness.

Children of the elementary age
group can develop unlimited original-
ity in this activity. Poems that tell a
story, that are full of drama and
movement, that have infectious rhythm
and familiar situations should be cho-

Procedure:

APRIL 1951

sen. Those filled with beauty and
imagery are also needed to balance
the program:

The North Wind

Whoo-whoo-oo-oo
Whoo-whoo-oo-oo
Whoo-whoo-oo-oo

Solo Group: The north wind blew
It rattled the windows
It blew down the flue

The great trees groaned
When the north wind blew.

Procedure: Divide participants
into four groups——-high voices for
shrill winds, medium voices for ordi-
nary winds, low voices for deep rum-
bling winds, and a group to read the
stanza.

Voices begin to blow softly on
these three levels, mounting to the
climax. The blowing sound decreases
as the words are read, the voices com-
ing in and the winds increasing at
the end of each line. They gradually

die away at the end of the stanza.

My Right Hand to You

Formation: A single circle, each
child facing a partner.

Words Action
I. My right hand to I. Clasp right hands
you
2. My left hand to 2. Touch fingers of
you left hand in dance
movement
3. Whirling so mer- 3. Whirl under part-
rily ner’s arm
4. Singing so cheer- 4-. Whirl back to po-
ily sition

Girls make dcep
curtsy; boys how
low from waist
down

Rise slowly to
erect position.

Lift right foot

5. Bending down low 5.

6. Stand erect so. 6.

I. My right foot up, 1.

down

2. My left foot up, 2. Lift left foot
down

3. Tripping so light- 3. Girls trip past
ly, oh partner with light

running steps
Return with same
steps to place
Girls make dcep
curtsy; boys how
low from waist
down

Rise slowly to
erect position.

4. Back to my place 4.
1 go
5. Bending down low 5.

6. Stand erect so. 6.

Choral speaking is not alone the
province of the child. Young people
and adults can likewise discover fun
and pleasure in such activity.

The Little Widow of Saint Isabel

This is the poor Oh, I ran so swift-
widow ly
Of Saint Isabel. I most fell apart.

She wishes to I held out my
marry-- hand

With whom she But I gave her my
can’t tell. heart.

The priest’s serv- Oh, I like my cof-
ant wrote her. fee

It pleased her quite And 1 like my tea

well. But you know I
She sent him a let- give all
ter My true love to

From Saint Isabel. thee. (Repeat)

This is an example of a very simple
arrangement of a Mexican game, which
includes choral Speaking, dramatic ac-
tion and dancing. Participants take the
parts of choral speakers, dramatic
characters such as the little widow,
the priest, servant and messenger. See
sketch for the arrangement of groups.

09% % $9

0". PRIESI MESSENGER W
°” 3‘;
0R,

30
“2' a.

LITTLE. WIDOW

69»

Choral speakers, in lively voice, tell
the story of the little widow who is
hunting a husband. On the line, “She
wishes to marry,” and so on, the little
widow runs wildly around looking for
someone to marry. On the line “With
whom she can’t tell,” she dejectedly
sits down again. (Note: the first and
second lines are repeated by groups
three times each.)

In the second stanza, the messenger
comes tearing (across Mexico) to
bring a proposal. The little widow
sends back, by messenger, a hurriedly-
written answer. In the third, the
priest’s servant “almost fell apart” in
his eagerness. The fourth stanza, calls
for the priest’s servant’s love Speech in
a light, lilting tone and rhythm, as he
raises the little widow to her feet.

The choral speakers likewise take
partners and prepare to dance to the
words and rhythm of the last stanza.
Any simple group dance which fits the
rhythm of the poem may be used.

41

 

Dramatizatiou

of playground

situations

as a training device

NEW APPROACH in the method of teaching was

made at the annual summer playground leaders
institute of the Milwaukee Department of Municipal Rec-
reation in 1950. In past years, many play leaders were
confused after a two-day intensive playground institute
covering games, crafts, apparatus,
leagues, special activities _and so on. Therefore, in an at-
tempt to overcome this difiiculty, a committee of play-
ground supervisors planned a dramatization of play-
ground situations that might prevail on opening day.
The purpose was to' depict those situations which con-
front play leaders early in the season and to suggest pro-
cedures and methods of handling some of these prob-
lems. This was accomplished in eight scenes, through
demonstration, conversation, pantomime and the aid of
a narrator. The dramatization was presented on the
stage with settings suggestive of a playground. The nar-
ration and scenes follow:

administration,

Playground Situations

Narrator—A committee of full-time recreation personnel
has planned a series of scenes to depict some of the sit-
uations which arise on playgrounds and which are con-
fusing to play leaders, especially early in the season.
After the play leader is eXperienced in his neighborhood,
some of the problems resolve themselves; but, at first,
they appear as huge mountains. The purpose of these

Submitted by JOHN ZUSSMAN, director of special activi-
ties for Milwaukee Municipal Recreation Department and

Public Schools.
42

scenes is to bring some of tlIesc mountains down to size.
We shall present several typical situations so that you
can visualize them, and shall then suggest ways in which
they can be met.

SCENE I—MONDAY MORNING, JUNE 26

A playground which opens at 9:00 am. lt is the first

day of the 1950 summer playground.
CURTAIN RISES

Narrator—Thcre are some young boys and girls and
teen-agers in groups about the playground building. Somc
are eating; one is smoking. Some have watcr guns. A
game of strike-out is in progress. What will happcn when
the leader walks onto the playground?
Action—Leader enters and greets the boys and girls.
Narrator—The play leader arrives carly. This is the icc-
breaker time. The boys and girls are wondering what
their new play leader is like. The children ask questions
and the leader answers them as a way of introducing
himself to the group. They ask about softball lcagues,
nature camps, festivals, who will be the new girl leader
and when the swings will be available.
Play Leader—By the way, what special activities do you
like?
Narrator—You will note that the leader is not making
any rules. He did not discipline the smoking, although
he saw it. He is exploring interests and establishing a
common ground. In getting children to talk about them-
selves, he is showing an interest in them and in their
problems. Remember that no two playgrounds are alike.
You may not encounter these exact situations, but the
elements of successful leadership which have been por-
trayed will be needed in a number of similar situations.
Strike-out, played against the building, is not allowed
on playgrounds and many of us will be required to deal
with this. We will all be tactful and diplomatic, but
our approach will vary in different situations.

SCENE II—ALSO MONDAY MORNING

Narrator—The custodial staff of the Department of Serv-
ice and Supplies has been very busy picking up and re-
pairing equipment used during the spring, and prepar-
ing and packing material for the summer season. Your
equipment may not arrive until sometime Monday morn-
ing. The ice has been broken and relations are morc
friendly. The department truck arrives and the custo-
dian brings out game equipment. The dircctor introduces
himself to the custodian and they exchange a fcw com-
ments. The boys and girls soon are clamoring for equip-
ment.

CURTAIN RISES
Action—Custodian enters and deposits equipment at
cupboard.
Children—Give me a ball! Hey, I want a bat. Can I have
a basketball? You got any jacks?
Play Leader—Just a minutc, just a minute, please. I have
to check every piece of equipment with the inventory.
Then I’ll have to inflate the balls. You just wait a few
minutes and I’ll have everything ready.

RECREATION

Children—The diamond is clear; give us a bat and ball!
Play Leader—Well, now, do you see that glass on the
diamond? If you . . . (Then leader goes into building.
Cupboard is all ready.)

Narrator—The director must use his judgment about
asking boys to clean up the grounds. He would not do
that unless very good relations had been established
with them. In this part of the scene, the director is in
the building checking supplies. To save time, the cup-
board has been prepared. The material is well organized.
Similar material is together—and should be kept that
way. He is able to tell at a glance what is missing, how
many bats are out and so On.

Notice the time cards, the attendance cards and the
requisition cards. Later in the day, a time card for every
member of the playground staff will be posted. It is very
important that these cards and the playground calendar
be posted here. When the door is locked, they will be
secure. Just a word about ways of posting. Material may
be taped on or a large piece of poster paper with slits
for corners may be used. If tape is used, be sure to stick
a piece of paper onto the strip of tape so that the cord
will not stick. It is the same principle used in mounting
band-aids. Your district director will be your friend if
you keep your cupboard well organized.

Action—Knock at the door and yell from boy who was
smoking.

Narrator—The director has finished checking and goes
to the door. Note that this is the boy who was smoking
when the director came to the playground this morning.
Boy—Hey, give me a basketball.

Play Leader—0h, hellol Sure, I’ll have one ready for your
group in a minute. (Goes for ball and visits for a min-
ute. Then . . 

You know, I’m interested in this neighborhood and I
hope that you have a good time this summer. Say, I’d
like to explain a little matter. It’s about smoking on the
playground. You know, you older fellows have to help
with those little fellows. We have to watch out for them.
That’s one reason I wish you wouldn’t smoke here. I
certainly would appreciate your cooperation.
Narrator—The point to be emphasized is that the di-
rector did not stOp the smoking when he first came tO
the playground. He did not tell the boy to stop in front
of his gang. Probably no playground staff will be com-
pletely satisfied with results in attempting to curb smok-
ing. However, every play leader should use his influ-
ence. Be sure that your playground is a place where good
habits are learned.

SCENE III—ANOTHER DAY—BULLETIN
BOARD PROMOTION

Narrator—We shall assume that, in this scene, the chil-
dren range from twelve to fifteen years of age. The direc-
tor is working at the bulletin board, posting notices of
special events and classes.

CURTAIN RISES
Action—Children become curious and gather. Director
tells of special classes in response to questions regarding

APRIL 1951

dance class, chess, arts and crafts, nature games .“Oh,
coach, our playground is listed here.” “Sure enough!
Yes, we will have arts and crafts.” On what days and
costs are discussed.

Narrator—The bulletin board is a wonderful medium
for advertising. It can be made the focal point of the
playground where young and old, neighbor and passer-by
can come to find out What’s doing. It must be kept
alive and active. A dead bulletin board is a false front.
On many grounds the cooperation of children has been
secured in helping to keep it up to date.

While the director was busy, an irate man has rushed
to the playground, propelling his son, who was drenched
with a water pistol. This situation calls for diplomacy
and tact.

Man—Listen, Mr.l I pay taxes and this has to stOp.
What’s the matter here? My son came home crying. He
was soaking wet.

Action—~Director is sympathetic and understanding. He
wins the confidence of the parent and then takes him to
bulletin board to tell him about the nature lore camp

trips.
SCENE IV—WEDNESDAY—L.0. GAMES

Narrator—In planning and preparing for these games,
careful consideration must be given to the following
requirements: 1.) a definite location, 2.) an area clear of
apparatus, 3.) no interference, 4.) an area that can be
readily supervised, 5.) markings, 6.) an area away from
a drinking fountain.

You have been hearing much about these factors so
they will not be accented here. However, you will want
to make some observations in this next scene. We have
a low-organization game in progress and you will see
one situation which is common, but which can and
must be corrected.

CURTAIN RISES

Action—Tag ball is being played, but there seems to be
much interference. (Play game one minute). Boy on
bicycle rides through. Director sees this but says noth-
ing (one minute). Another boy comes in and kicks or
bats ball (one minute). Bike rider again coasts into
game, doesn’t see director who is ready, stOps him and
eXplains ordinance.

Narrator—The director is eXplaining the seriousness of
the offense and the bicycle ordinance to the rider. Every
play leader has been given a COpy of this rule which
states that riding bicycles on playgrounds is illegal. The
police department offers us this COOperation. Through
your district director, you may file warning cards at
the district station. We have heard the procedure from
the inspector. We have the tools if we need them. We

should use them.

SCENE V—INTEREERENCE WITH GIRLs’ PROGRAM

Narrator—At the beginning of the season, boys and
girls do not, as yet, have good play habits. In the above
scene, we witnessed incidents which necessitated that
the director make corrections. In SCENE V we again see

43

interference with the program. Here, some boys have

a good time at their favorite pastime of teasing the girls.
CURTAIN RISES

Action—Boys run through “Pin Snatch,” ridiculing the

girls’ gaIne. Boy takes equipment and runs. At sandbox,

they pantomime throwing sand, and the bigger boys
monopolize sandbox.

Narrator—Overplayed? No! This situation is not un-
common, especially early in the scason. It is not only
the responsibility of the directress to handle this prob-
lem; it also should be discussed with the district direc-
tor, for the boys need game activity to satisfy the in-
stincts and urges which prompt them to molest the other
sex. This is a two-way problem. The girls do not run
through the boys’ games, but, sometimes, during a boys’
game, two or three girls will come over to the boys’
side and just stand. Then two or three boys drop out
and the game breaks up. This situation is the joint re-
sponsibility of the director and the directress.

SCENE VI—ACCIDENT——FIRST AID

Narrator—In the next scene, a game of “Beater Goes
Around” is in progress. Again we see the bicycle rider
violating rules. In this scene you will observe procedures
involved in calling for an ambulance if and when an
accident occurs. Please do not have any misgivings about
accidents. There will be some grounds which will have
no accidents of significance. Yours may be one of these.
This situation is given, however, so that you will under-
stand what to do in case of emergency.

CURTAIN RISES
Action—Boys are playing. Boy on bicycle rides into
the game. Players gradually get sore—-—“Oh, cut it out”
is heard. Finally one of them chases the rider and the
latter runs into, and knocks down, a child.
Narrator—Now we have the accident situation and one
of the “musts” of playground conduct will be observed.
Every playground leader should have nickels on hand.
0n the first day, every play leader must locate the nearest
available telephone. Is it in the school? If so, its use
must be approved. Is it in a filling station? A neighbor’s
house? Not knowing where a telephone call may be
made in an emergency constitutes negligence. The direc-
tor should have change handy to call the ambulance.
Some directors tape it near a phone.
Action—The director calls the ambulance. He tells
why he is calling, who he is, his position and from where
he is calling. He gives the type and seriousness of the
accident, the sex and age of the child. (Action stops be-
fore ambulance appears.)
Narrator—The ambulance has departed for the emer-
gency hospital with the child; but the squad car officers
have remained at the request of the director, who gives
them information about the boy and his previous bicycle
violations. He files a complaint against the boy, giving
them his license number, name and address.

SCENE VIIHPLAYGROUND STAFF MEETING

Narrator—~Operating a playground is a job, as you

44

have now discovered if you did not know it before, that
requires planning and coordination upon the part of all
of the mcmbers of the playground staff. It is essential that
occasional playground staff mectings be held. The next
sccne will show some of the situations which might be-
come real problems and which should be given con-
sideration by the entire staff. You will want to discuss
these with the district director. Suggested times for such
round-table discussions are after the playground closes,
before the playground opens, before or after a Saturday
class or, if necessary, sometime during the day on the
playground. You will observe the tendency for problems
to be resolved when the staff thinks together about them
and agrees on common procedures.
CURTAIN RISES

Action—Discuss any of the following topics—danger
of bicycle riding, number of offenses:

a. First time

b. Second offense

c. Parking——-as a solution

Police cooperation. Have you met our policeman?
a. General discipline
b. Discuss the event of the afternoon—nickels, the
call, first aid
Talk about field day, swings or first aid. The assistant

director may say that he is confused about giving first
aid and the director can start explaining. Then the nar-
rator picks up the story.
Narrator—You can see the need for, and the value of,
the playground staff meetings. May we again emphasize
that the playground program always runs more smoothly
if the entire staff understands, agrees upon and follows
definite policies and procedures.

SCENE VIII—FIRST AID

Narrator—The American Red Cross is cooperating
with us in presenting this next scene. There always are
questions about what constitutes first aid, questions which
most of us can answer if we are not under pressure. We
have all had first-aid training, but we sometimes becomc
confused when an emergency arises.

There are a few fundamental rules which should he
followed in all accidents requiring first aid. One funda—
mental is that we, as play leaders, must remember that
we are not doctors. We give first aid only. Mr. Schneider
of the American Red Cross will direct this scene and we
are grateful to him for his cooperation.

CURTAIN RISES

Action—Stress first aid only. Typical injuries are por-
trayed by signs in the hands of the injured: broken arm,
back injury, bruises—elbow, burns—knee, sprained
ankle, head injury, heat exhaustion, sunstroke, sunburn,
yesterday’s injury—knee for redressing, nosc bleed.
Narrator—Thank you for this needed information.
We appreciate having you with us. Just a word about
playground first aid. Do not splint. Do not move the
patient, unless giving treatment for sunstroke or somc
similar case. The injured should remain quiet; call the
ambulance immediately.

RECREATION

‘
J

NATUII

AIITS AN" CRAFT."

 

F-HHQ >2: 0:91-71

3.5-. Emu—2v

555555 boahlg5r5 :5:5 2:: 555555 32 552-
5% :555 55%:55. :55m5r255. :5 35:: 5:55:55.
255 5:55 55: 5% 52555:. d5 5:55mu :5552
:255:. @555 :5 :55: E55? C5 @5555. 55:55
55: H5: :5 :555 2:: 55:55. m52 5:55:55 no :5
55: mr5 on 552 55 r5: 5: :55 5555.

$555 :555IO55 55 8 2575 555:8 $555 ::5 255: 555:5.53:
:55: S 555 55: 55555:: 55:55 32 .525 55:55 :55. 5:5. 55:: :55.
5555555535555: 5555 :5 :55. 555555. :55 5555mr :5 55 :55
:5 :55m5m 2:: 555 :55: :55 55”. m55:w5555 5: 5:m5m 55: 5515555
.55: 5555?. W55. 5:515:55. 555:5 5:M5m 555% :5 5:55:55: on
5555:. F555 2:: 5525::5. 55:5m 525 :5555: 5595:115555555
555% 55 555 55: 5555mm? 55 :5 5:55. on 55555 5552555 5555.
W55" :5 $555. 55: :5" :55w5m m5: :5 53.55:?

0:52. 3555555|Un52 5:55:55 :mrwq 5555 55:55. 5555: 5: 55:55.
:5mg 55 55555 5: 5:5:5. 555:5m 5:5? :5 58:55 555 55: 55:55. 55:
555:5m :53 :5 E5555. >55:55 5555:5m 5:555 555 :5 5:55:55:
:Zocmr 55:5m 5 55:5 r55rm~555: 2:5 55:55: :M55m.

H.553. 55:5 555355555|er5m5 55 555: 55
55:25: 55:55 :55 55:55. Cmm5m 7553.
55:55.. 55: 55: 555: :55:M5m 5m 55 5mm...
555555v :5255n 55555: 55: mo 55. 7:555:
55 555:35: 85:55:55 55: 555: :5 51%:
55:55.5.

 

5 N58 @595}: b.5555

52.... 55: 0555511: $552.55: E55:55555 g5nm515 5E5. >. m.
w5z5m 55: 05555552u :0: 3er >555? 252 <51“ m. mwhm.

@555 5\ 55.55 0.553. 5. 355555 :55255. 0:55. >. w5555:
0555:5532 355.555.; .25 35555: >35 W555? mmq 253: 35525
9555. 3551? 5:555. mmbm.

2555.55 0553. E52535 :55M5n. .55 3553555 05.55555: mo
53.. ><55555 Z52 M2515 :. mmxro.

555.5%.“ 55 3555 x555. 0:5? 55: M55?“ 5555 $555555. 53535555-
055555505525. mm €55: “$5: 9555.. 252 <51? @mbo.

(Fold Back)

“main-Gm men... 5:.-
ZFHG-n-w F-v1EZHG-H-Za ._.

25555 5:5555:5mo 5m 5 552 5: :5 5555
55.5%55o :5 55555 555535555 2:: 5
55855511555 H.555 r552m5m 5:55" 55: 55.
255:5 32 5555. :5 mm 5 55: 55 :56 555555
555555 55555. 555:555555. 55:55. 555555.
:5 55% m552 :58 5 55:25 r5533 :5 55%
5555 :55 5545 :55. :55. 25512 555.52
555555. 2555 55 E5 :555mr 2::555555 5555“' 55: 55 5575::5.
25% 5:55.55 55. 5:55 55 5:55:55. 2555.; 54532 5555555. :55 5555.: 5:
556555 55. 55:535. 255. :5 55555 5:. 5~5....5...u555wev 555 5555 :5555:
3 :5 5m :5 :55: 555; :56 5515:. 2555.5 5:553:55”. mm 5 552
5: :5 5555 55.5%.55 :53 53235. 5555 55:5:5m :5 2::555555
:35? :5 mm<5m 555555 5 :55555 232: :55. 5552555 E5555.o 55-
255:5 55: :52 :5: :45. .25 :5=52:5m 555%55 :55 5555 5:555:
$55 :5 C515: m555m 25$: 953:5: wuomga 55: :5 wow m5ocn
Z5555 >:<555515m wnomBB, 5555:5m 5 555555. 55 @5553. :555mr
5555555 55: 555“' :55. «5155 55555555555 5: 5:555:55.

.5 2555.55 5.55555
5 2555.55 5555.: S555

H. F555 5 55:55 5: 5 55555 55:.

w. w::: 5 :55: 5:. 5 55555 2.5:. ::55:€:5m 352 555555 5:555.
552555 55. 55:5.

m. 35—5 55 Ema :5m5155m 55: ::55:€:5m 5:555. 5555? 55
55:5.

5.. 35:5 55 555525:555_5n 55555559: mmma :55 :5 5555.5 55:.

m. $52 555555 555 5: 55 55 5555—55.

> QHEUMWZMmm nmwgwmw

.: 55:55:5352 0555555: 6555555555355 5555 5555. 2:55.965...

H. w::: 5 555rm5m :5“ 5:52:5m 555 5: :5.
:55... E5::5m 55: 5 555-5555: :55.

m. W555M5m5. 55555 55: 555:“ 2::555555
55:5 3555... 555% 5:55:55. 55 :5 5555555“' 55:
553:5 55:55 55555:.”

5. > 555mm 5m M25555 55.

r. > 555: 5: 5:95 5555.

 

 

555555255 555555555 ‘55 v5.5.5 35:55.55. :5 55:55:55.... 35.5%. :55: v.2 :5 V5?
.5555 $555525?“ 5‘ :55555555. 55555555: 3. 252:: my. 0555. 05555 255.53%.

 

lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

AIITS .: ND CRAFTS

V
J

NATUII

888 .858 .5828:

8888.88 .8888 3:5
.3 88883 .8828888K so 888288Q 88888.8 85 .3 ~888on 8.8.3.88“...

28; SSE .. .28: 588

 

.888me 8m .mEB 8.888 88amme £888 of E
mEE8s88 38:8 2: Eco 8580 8588 28 E 3me wo 88 28 mEmo
.88: 8888— E88135 8 88¢ 9.8% .5th .8888 o»: E 888m 85
8E .88 2 28 88% 83:8: E8 .838 £35 “88me 8 ft:
:88 8E8m .883 888883 .8 wooBmE wo “88.88% E 88E Em
.8.me Em 3—82 .333: EEH 8 3 “8: E .883 E .833 8.338 8
3 ~83 88 8—888 8:“ mo 8E8 :8“ 2:. 83?qu o»: c8888— 8988
8.: E8mm=m 88888 of mo .88 of 2 :8 moo: 8.88: 8 2 8o
.88 381888 8:.Em .8 m8; 8E8 8 8m8>_8m|2.&m. xo 8880

.883 8.8.0— 85 E was: on
888 2:81 of 85 om “Em—8E“ Eoo 8 :88 E8 8.88— 2% wo m3 of
8 88.8 .888 828m .58888888 EzEa 8:8: 85 its 688293
2: 8 E 8% E8 Eoo 8:58 5E 28 8: :85 88: “88.82 E
8:; 888 88:4 8.3; 8% o“ mom: E2: E8 Bos— Ho .89: 888%
.E8on 85 mo no“ of 8 Eoo its :Eocvr. EoB out 5.8% .8 “Ehm
8.8888 mosoE Emmv “89.83 mo 88mm 8 80'88883 anm 88M

.888:
2283 8 8:880— 8383 823%. of E8 $3 8 m8 8E8 8o
8 .owmmvw 2oz EBB 5E EzE8a 80— 8o 88:: mEzEa 8:88. 2:
on 88 9888 :3 E8888: 8.8 8:88 E8 8838 8
“888m 8m8_ norm .8888 5me its 883 E8 88m
-E8m 8:888 88¢ .838 88 8% “88¢ woo? E
8:888 :85 80 .v—ooE 8 8o 888—8 .8 .88.: 8%
“8.8.5: of 8 cwmmow 2oz EBB 8:88:88 9.. v—oE
:85 8.82 882* 88 #8888ng who; 88— EB
:83? Joomoa 83“ How @888: 833 8;: =8 88 EME—
.o_o8_ 8 E8 #83 888...» :9... 8.183% 8.88&

 

2.55.9 :28 8.5:... 2.8.... .5:

:38: ii one-:90:

(Fold Along This Line)

lllllllI'llllllllllllllllllllllllllll.

.EoE8m 88: ~88 88:85. mE838>w8 2: 88 3 n=8 .8
8me vow—.80 somEo—om 8 “EC. 8280 mEmE8U 88888339 8 8me
8moob88m 8 8me 8mm “mod 8 on .85 E8 moi—£8.68 8.88: E
82 828E898 88¢ of 80— :E 83,—. .88.: E8 woow 480— “8:88
8* £E88E 8E8: com: meoomEo 83888 88 8w 8 E8_ 85 Mo
mE>= 38:88 .85: EmE8>o :8 “881588 3388888 E8 68—88

“mes mEgEamomoV 8882 N883 2E
MMVEE A<>~>MDm 4

.mEv—E 83.588 88 wEE8b E888— mm 81:.
.mEEmm— 88:88.5 3 E8 888 85 mEE8E 8: 3 8538888 8:88
-88— m8£¢ E8 woow 88 E88: 38E EE 3 8me 8w mEuoE8
“8888:: mEE8E wE858>w8 8.888 8.5.. 883 8 8o o0

“85 Sum 888.88.88.85 V
amMDEZm>Q< MMDE<Z <

883280 E<

LEE .883. “E8 88.5. 888.83 mEEEoE nE8 8E 88888:? .8
.mEv—EEo 8a 8.88 88.: 8E: 3 Bow .m

.EE ESon 8 8—85 3 Bow .m
.888 8E_ SE 383 E»: 8 Bow .8

888888 8 8—88 3 3o: .m .mE88 8m
.88 8881 88:8 8.883 3 .5on E
mEv—8E.88m 8 8—85 8 3o: .8 .883

8:888 #83 3—85 3 85$ .8 .8 v—EEo nwoom nmE88 8a
.888 .8 828E mE88=oo E 88:888m .8
"8332. £8.88 28 we a: 8
.mE>= 88:88:? E Ea: 88— 8E .85 3o:
E8 38E mEEomoom: How wEE8b m8 :8: 8.88: 8 Ho 88: .H
"98on 8 3 28.588885

“8% 858.88% $83889 8888388“ V
MEGS—m MOmDmU ZOmzumom <

.80— EEon 8 3—82 .m
88:38 888888 _8 88—82 .N. 3.80—
.88 mEv—8E.8E 8 88—82 .0 89¢ Eoo E8 88:: 88—82 .m
8:888 #80— _8.8>om 3—82 .m. .meE
Ema 8 888888 E8 xooo 85o 8o 82 wE888m .w
.8838 £388 roE :.U.U.U.U: .6 .5 8:8; 388 .8 woo—ooo .o

[DiFJGI I‘ll!

 

. just Revised!

BASEBALL:

Individual Play and Team

Strategy They All Clamor For More!

3rd Edition " TRAMPOLINING! The bouncing sport and

play for youngsters, teen-agers, adults. Tre-

mendous spectator appeal. Founded by
Head Cooch of Boseboll, Duke University NISSEN, originator of America’s FIRST

Standard Trampoline.

by John W. "Jack" Coombs

This famous handbook for the coach, player, and
student .of baseball has just been revised to con- NISSEN MODEL 5494.. hues, in Trampoline.
form with the newly established playing and

scoring rules. The 3rd edition continues to cover Write for ""55 literature

every conceivable phase of individual and team
play, as well as business management and team

organization. New with the revision are these “'55”. ,MIPIOcL.|.
features: Ra uE
0 Discussion of plays in line with rules newly ‘

laid down by the Professional Playing Rules

Committee. °Name TBAMPOLINE Reg. U.S. Uat. on.

0 Section on oflicial scoring revised to conform

with new rules set up by the Scoring Rules Com- 29° A AVE' NW CEDAR RAPIDS: IOWA
mittee.

 

0 Valuable information on how to lay out a base-
ball diamond.

0 The “Treatment of Injuries” section brought ~-
up to date. 

350 pages illustrated 5%")! 3"   

LEATHEBCBAFT

CATALOG AND GUIDE

 
 

Published Last August—

 
 
 
 
  
   
     
   
  
   
 

The Art of
Officiating Sports

By John W. Bunn, Springfield College;
and others

LARSON LEATHERCRAFT
FOR CRAFTS CLASSES

Complete Stock - Prompt Shipment

Leathercraft is our only business, and our stock is the
largest and most complete in America. That is why you
can always depend upon immediate and complete ship-
ment of orders sent to us. Whether your requirements
are for beginners’ kits needing no tools or experience, for
very young boys and girls, or tooling leathers, supplies
and tools or older, more advanced students or hobbyists,
be sure to check the LARSON LEATHERCRAFT CATA—
LOG first. Write today for your FREE copy of our new

24- age illustrated Catalog and Guide to atest Leather-
cra t prOJects.

Here is a new book that fills a real need as

a guide for sports officials and administra-

tors of sports programs, and as a text for f
courses in sports oiiiciating. First, the book

builds a sound philosophy to serve as a

general foundation for oHiciating any sport.

It then applies basic principles to the actual

oHiciating of a variety of specific Sports.

J. C. LARSON COMPANY

The Foremost Name in Leathercraft

820 5. Tripp Ave... Dept. 907, Chicago 24, Ill.

J. C. lARSON CO., Dept. 907
820 S. Tripp Ave., Chicago 24, Ill.

Please send me a FREE copy .of your latest
24-Page Illustrated Catalog and Guide to Leather-

PRENTICE-HALL, Inc. m“

l

I

l

I

I

I

NAME_—_————— I
70 Fifth Avenue New York 11, N.Y. ]
I

I

.I

388 pages illustrated 5 V2“): 8 'A"

Sendfor your copies today!

 

ADDRESS——_—__
CI I Y—________STATE

APRIL 1951 47

 

 

PERSONNEL-

FIELD PROBLEMS

IN RECREATION WORK

HE FOLLOWING general problems,
T based upon actual experiences of
students graduated from the Curricu-
lum for Community Leadership in
Recreation, were abstracted from per-
sonal letters and individual confer-
ences.’ They are presented here for
the purpose of stimulating study by
students preparing to take beginning
positions in the field.

What are some common problems
encountered by these students as they
take positions in a variety of settings?

1. Most s t ude nts lack su§icient
background of education and experi-
ence to cope egectively with all aspects
of the job.

These lacks include record keep-
ing, budget management, supervision,
scheduling, program planning, office
procedures, general administration.

2. Most beginning workers experi-
ence dihiculty in recruiting, training
and supervising volunteer leaders.

Many agencies depend heavily upon
volunteer workers, but lack an over-all
integrated plan for utilizing such vol-
unteers in their total program.

3. There is an almost universal in-
sufficiency of funds for programs.

Financial problems include lack of
money for operating expenses as well
as for capital expenditures.

4. Most beginning leaders experi-
ence uncertainty about their progress.

Many agencies fail to give profes-
sional workers complete job descrip-
tions‘which include clear-cut analyses
of the position. Fuzziness about what
is expected of the worker frequently
results in unanticipated criticism from
administrative superiors as well as

*Prepared by PROFESSOR MARVIN RIFE,
Coordinator, Curriculum for Commu-
nity Leadership in Recreation, Educa-
tion Building, University of W iscon-
sin, Madison 6, Wisconsin.

48

from agency constituents.
5. Conflicts with administrative su-
periors or co-workers are encountcred

in some instances—based upon tem-.

perarnent, standards of work and dif-
fering methods of working with people.

Errors in judgment by the begin-
ning worker, coupled with authoritar-
ian attitudes and “boss” methods, fre-
quently produce conflict situations.

6. New workers often have great
di§iculty in dealing with constituents.

Lack of finesse and “know how” in
coping with discipline problems of
children and youth, in gaining and
holding participant interest and in fur-
thering objectives of the agency are
sources of great disillusionment.

7. The beginning worker often is
loaded with too many different re-
sponsibilities at the outset with which
he is unfamiliar.

Confusibn is the natural aftermath
of the agency employer’s expecting the
new worker to handle a myriad of du-
ties with insufficient orientation.

What attitudes should a beginning
worker develop which will enable him
to do a better job of c0ping with these
problems? He must:

1. Be fortified with the realization
that most people, staff and constitu-
ents, will expect more from him than
he is capable of handling at first.

2. Realize that learning how to deal
with pe0ple and their idiosyncracies is
more important than learning to lead
activity skills per se.

3. Be willing to start at the bottom
of the occupational ladder. Many me-
nial tasks beneath his dignity will be
assigned to him . . . He must be will-
ing to dig in and do them to prove
his worth.

4. Know and use the language of
the people with whom he works. So-
called professional terminology should
be generally reserved for staff com-

munication . . . but the important job

of communicating to constituents calls
for simplc dircct language.

5. Bc proficicut in one or two gen-
eral areas of recrcation activity.
Although he may generally be a super-
visor or coordinator of activities, he
will be expected to produce in direct
leadcrship positions as well.

6. Be willing and ready to work
long hours—at odd hours. He works
while others play, frequently working
later after others are through playing.

7. Expcct and tactfully demand a
clear-cut and complete job description
of the position he accepts. He should
expect modifications of this descrip-
tion, but should have definitc under-
standings as to the full meaning and
implications of such changes.

8. Be ready at all times to explain

why he operates as he does, as well as
to tell what he is doing.

9. Expect a minimum of compli-
ments and appreciation from others
for his work. Any unsolicited commcn-

dation always should be gratefully and
modestly accepted as a “bonus.”

10. Be patient with the status quo,
even though he is not satisfied with
progress being made in meeting prob-
lelns and needs. Progress in recreation,
as in every other field of endeavor,
comes through evolutionary, rather
than revolutionary, processes.

11. Follow the sound policy of “do-
ing one thing well along one line, at
one time.” Progress usually is made
by shooting with a rifle rather than
with a shotgun.

12. Give other people plenty of
credit for their accomplishments, no
matter how insignificant they may
seem. They’ll love him for it.

13. Keep his mind receptive to criti-
cism and constructive suggestion.

14. Stay healthy—physically, 1ncn-
tally, emotionally, socially. He must
always be a stimulating example of a
well-balanced personality.

15. Keep pace with progress in the
recreation field. Knowledge, insight
and power to communicate new ideas
to others are the essence of recreation
leadership in the best sense. A wcll-
founded faith in the contributions of
recreation to personal and social de-
ve10pment is the lifebuoy to prevent
sinking in moments of disillusion.

RECREATION

How To Do lT bgmdfféa:

Decorale gour waslebaskel.lrinkel box.or\urapping paper.

 

All gou need ~—

l.Whiie paper.
2.Paper cemenl or pasle.
3.Enamel painl.

 

To Do lTQ

lsl. Fill large shallow pan iwo-ihirds full oi waier.
2nd.5prinkle small amounl of enamel painl on surface of waler:

Use as mang colors as desired.
3rd.Move enamel painl inlo inleresling pallerns
bg blowing on surface of waler.

' Alh. Place while paper on surface of
waler. Then lili il from ’rhe waler.

The enamel swirling pallern will be
lranslerecl ‘to lhe paper.

  

51h. Drg paper and press smoolh.
Then pasle lo objeci. Trim
and JFinish edge wilh

masking iape.

 

Nole~ You can decorale ang
surface wilh lhis marbleiged
color pallern.

Acanalle can be rolled over surface of waler. Clolh can
be decoraied. Wooden. glass or melal objecls can be marbleigeal.

APRIL 1951 49

 

BEFORE. The East Pond after the water was pumped out
and before fill was started. This picture was taken in July 1949.

AUHMMUNITY

A new municipal swimming pool, thanks to almost
unparalleled community c00peration and the indomitable
spirit of neighborhood people, recently became a reality
in Glens Falls, New York. An old abandoned quarry pool,
500 by 250 feet, was transformed into one of the finest
outdoor pools in this country.

The story begins way back in the ’twenties, or be-
fore that. Through the years the pond claimed the lives of
several youngsters who ventured too close. Pe0ple became
conscious of this hazard and, though a protective fence
was installed to encircle the pool, the more progressive
minds were already planning to make sure that the tract
of land, some fifteen acres, would be utilized by the city.
A referendum in 1929 gave the city the right to pur-
chase those acres. Yet what probably shows best the
spirit and foresight of these pe0ple is that adjoining
lots were purchased by individuals and eventually resold
to the city for actual cost, thus adding five acres to the
fifteen already owned.

Meanwhile, these individuals gathered together and
formed an East Neighborhood Association, which had
as the preamble to its constitution this thought: “Having
at heart the common welfare, we associate ourselves as
the East Neighborhood Association to build strong
neighborhood spirit, to make leisure hours constructive
and recreation wholesome.” And, then, this civic group
went ahead and, in their spare hours, spent much time
in leveling the terrain, deveIOping ball fields and making
the area—all but the pond—-usable. To reclaim the pond,
though it was “off limits,” was the big desire of all group
members.

However, the campaign to transform the quarry pond
into a swimming pool was to be delayed, first by the

MR. REARDON is recreation superintendent, Glens Falls.

50

depression of the ’thirtics and then by World War 11,
before it was rcvived again. Hearing that thc city was
invcstigating the health angles of such a move, thc asso-
ciation became especially active. It had continued in
Operation during the war years, sending a monthly
newsletter to the boys in the services. First this letter
was limited to the boys from its own area and then was
sent to anyone who requested it. So the machinery was
all set up, and needed only the spark of that investigation
to touch it off again. Meetings were held by E.N.A.
officials frequently before the law makers yiclded and
afforded the recreation commission of the city a special
appropriation of $1,500 to start work on the draining of
the pond, the cleaning of the fungus and so 011.

That really lighted the flame. 011 July 20, 1949, the
recreation commission accepted the money—-and the
East Neighborhood Association dug in. On July 22,.a
general contractor started pumping operations and, with-
in seventy-two hours, eight million gallons of water had
been drained off through the fields. The cleaning proc-
esses were started, and the public at large sat up and
took notice. Several citizens gave moderate-sized dona-
tions and the East Neighborhood Association went on
a financial drive—-realizing just about twice the amount
that the city fathers had made possible. It was then that
the possibility of completing the project became more
than a vision, a vision shared not only by those who
were active in the project, but by the city and surround-
ing community. The public was definitely behind the
project, and the newspaper stated editorially: “From our
viewpoint, the best part about this project, in its cur-
rent stage at least, is its demonstration that we still have
citizens who don’t depend solely upon government to do
things for them, who are willing to work for what they
want in their community. This is, one sometimes fears,

TAKES A "AND

Daniel L. Reardon

AFTER. A quiet, mid-summer afternoon, after completion of
the new pool. This photograph was taken one year later.

 

a vanishing trait of American community life.”

The fever caught. When it came time for fill, a quarry
Operator donated stripping for it, taking his shovel from
the rocks for week ends; sand was donated or sold for
operating costs alone; truck drivers gave their services
and trucks for gas; the male members of the E.N.A.
did the manual labor; and, soon, what had been a dream
of years became a reality. Almost one month to the
day from the time operations started, the last load was
brought in to the beach and the water was permitted to
start back into the pool. Working only week ends, this
group of neighborhood people had negotiated better than
eight thousand yards of fill into place—had accomplished
an estimated job of twenty thousand dollars for a little
over three thousand dollars actual outlay.

But the work was not all done. Much more remained
to be accomplished, and the recreation commission was
entrusted with the further deve10pment of the beach. The
East Neighborhood Association started out after a bath-
house—or was it to be more? In May 1950, after many
meetings, the E.N.A. and the city fathers agreed on the
purchase of a 230-by-92-foot frame building, for ten
thousand dollars of city money, if the E.N.A. budget
would transport it to Glens Falls. This was done.

In June 1950, the pool was officially opened for swim-
ming. A six-thousand-dollar budget allotment to the
recreation commission had made possible everything
necessary to comply with the health angles, including a
chloroboat (costing better than half of the expense) to
chlorinate the water according to the required standards.
For the season of 1950, a shift of six lifeguards was
kept busy caring for up to one thousand swimmers per
day, in weather which was not considered ideal for
swimming.

Last fall, through a donation from the Community
Chest, a contractor engaged by the E.N.A. installed the
footings for the bathhouse section of the building at
actual cost. This spring, it is h0ped that the already-
started building will be finished by the time of the
opening of the swimming season, so that the pool and
its resources can be enhanced by dressing rooms, toilets
and all the other conveniences necessary to qualify suc-
cessfully for continued acceptance by health authorities.

The eventual development of the pr0perty will include
a picnic area, seating facilities for baseball and football,
tennis courts and, eventually, the construction of the
remainder of the community center building. It will be
a realization of the dreams of many who are now grand-
parents, bring out the youthful interest of many fathers
and mothers and give the youngsters of today a high
standard of accomplishment to equal.

This project was definitely undertaken “for the young-
sters,” and has been a most successful symbol of com-
munity effort. Without the sweat and toil of the neigh-
borhood people, without their having the project at
heart, this long-dreamed-of and much-talked-of effort
probably never would have been started. The spark
wasn’t set by a long-planned city movement nor made
possible by a philanthrOpist; just plain folks did it all.

APRIL 1951

 

(/16 Penny/maid State 60/1695

Inter-Session
June 12 to June 29

   
       
     
       

Summer
Main Summer Session .
July 2 to August 1] Sessnons

I 9 5 I

Post-Session
August 13 to August 31

Special courses in health education, physical ed-
ucation, recreation, and athletics. More than 500
academic, professional, and vocational courses

included in total program.

No special fees charged to aut-af-state students.

Extracurricular activities and entertainment pra-

I
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
Instructional fees and living expenses moderate. :
|
|
|
|
gram. Summer Artists Series. I

|

|
|
|
|
l
|
I
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
l
|
L

for catalogue write:

Director of Summer Sessions

Room 104-C Burrowes Building
THE PENNSYLVANIA STATE COLLEGE
State College, Pennsylvania

Ideal for Summer Study and Recreation

AGAIN IN I950-’5|

America?! gineét
Athletic squipment

is built by
®

for catalog, address:
Dept. R, W. J. VOIT RUBBER CORP.

1600 E. 25th St.
Los Angeles 11, Calif.

 

"71"5 BEEN A SUCCESS and, be-

sides, it’s been fun.” This was
the sentiment expressed by the twenty-
one mothers who completed the first
season of a summer playground pro-
gram designed for pre-school children

of the Hazeldell-Iowa-Maple school dis-
trict in Cleveland, Ohio.

At first this may not
seem like such an unusual project.

glance,

However, when its origin and deve10p-
ment are considered, it is an achieve-
ment in many ways. First of all, the
program got its start as the result of a
small PTA study group of mothers of
children. After
weeks’ exploration of the needs and
problems of their youngsters, they
keenly felt the need for supervised
summer play for these small tots who
often get lost in the shuffle in the regu-
lar playground programs. Secondly,
they concluded that it was possible for
them to do something to meet this
need—preferably with help, but if not,
on their own. And so they began.
They met with some individuals in
the community who knew the available
r es 0 u rc es—neighborhood newspaper
editors, a representative of the neigh-
borhood pr0perty owners’ association

pre-school several

and members of the area community
council—to discuss possible types of
program, possihle locations and so on.

As a result, a committee of mothers
' discussed their proposals with the city
recreation department and secured thc
use of a portion of one of the neigh-

52

   

Mrs. Donald E. Stier

I PLAY PROGRAM

Summer fun for

four-fo-eighf-year-olds

borhood parks, or the school play-
ground, with permission to restrict its
usage to the PTA play program during
scheduled hours. The department also
agreed to provide balls and other
small-games equipment.

In order to get some idea of the
response from potential participants, a
notice was sent home with each school
child, briefiy stating the possibility of
the program, asking return of thc
blank to indicate interest in having the
children attend, noting preferred loca-
tion and willingness of the mother to
volunteer her help. The response indi-
cated that the best location was in the
park and that fifty-six mothers would
be interested in helping. The gap be-
tween fifty-six and the twenty-one who
actually worked in the program is ac-
counted for by the fact that many of
the mothers lived quite a distance from
the selected location.

As plans progressed, it
necessary to train the mothers who

seemed

would actually participate in the pro-
gram. Therefore, four sessions were
held at the school under the leadership
of two of the PTA members who had
had previous professional recreation
experience and training. These ses-
sions were devoted to the specific types
of activities desirable for children four
to eight years of age, including active
and passive games, crafts, music and
stories. At one meeting, a staff mem-
her from the Nursery School Associa-
tion discussed the psychology of pre-

school children and the preferrcd
methods of handling them in group
activities. At another mccting, a chil-
dren’s librarian gave pointers on story-
telling. An effort was made to keep a
“light touch” to insure an informal,
Flexible program and a sense of self-
confidence in the ability of untrained
volunteer mothers to provide a satis-
fying eXperience for both the children
and themselves.

And so the plan evolved. The dates
were set for a six-weeksa program, threc
mornings a week, to be held in Forest
Hills Park. Thc plan of organization
required an over-all captain for thc
program as well as a captain for cach
of the three days who would be respon-
sible for the planning of special events
and for checking on the four assistants
scheduled to help her.

A registration system provided for
securing the name, addrcss, phonc
number and age of cach youngstcr.
Each card was checked with a black
check if the child was permitted to at-
tend by himself, with a red check if
he was accompanied by his mothcr
or another person responsible for him.
As each child enrolled at each at-
tendance, he was given a numbered
tag to correspond with his number in
the general file. This supplied the cap-
tain in charge with a double check, to
insure the safety of cach participant.
The date was then stamped on the
child’s file card for each attendancc.

Through thc excellcnt cooperation of

RECREATION

the three neighborhood branch libra-
ries, it was possible to schedule a spe-
cial story hour, directed by a chil-
dren’s librarian, once each week. The
city recreation department also made
possible a visit from the Traveling Zoo.

One of the mothers who lived at the
edge of the playground area rendered
yeoman service by proyiding storage
space for equipment, telephone use for
emergencies and other services.

The program opened on June nine-
teenth with the registration of forty-
eight children of ages three to nine.
(The original plans called for age
limits of from four to eight, but a few
exceptions were made.) It speaks well
for the women in charge that the first
day was a most exciting one for the
children, that all went “without a
hitch” and gave real satisfaction.

The entire program was planned so
that it would be flexible and informal.
A typical day went something like this:

9:30 a.m. Flag-raising and
singing.

9:45 a.m. Active games.

10:15 a.m. Quiet games,
handcrafts or
storytelling.

11:15 a.m. Flag lowering
and songs.

The children were divided into
groups of four-to-six-year-olds and
seven-to-nine-year-olds, for all activi-
ties except the opening and closing
ceremonies and special events. Games
and handcrafts varied according to
the skills and tastes of the leaders.
These included such things as finger
painting, the making of Indian hats
and pinwheels and poster making.

Unfortunately there is no adequate
way of measuring the success or fail-
ure of such a program. However, the
expressed satisfaction of the mothers
who participated, the thanks of those
whose children attended, the eager re-
sponse of the children———all these indi-
cate that for a first year it had many
elements which were good. The follow-

ing table may also substantiate the
claim to success. '

Statistical Report

Total registration ....................... .. 168
Total attendance ........................ .. 851*
Average attendance .................. .. 56

Number of days of program .... .. 15
APRIL 1951

“Figure does not include non-reg-
istered visitors.

REGISTRATION BY AGES
7 years of age 35 5 years of age 26
4 years of age 34 8 years of age 17
6 years of age 31 3 years of age 9
9 years of age 3

ATTENDANCE BY AGES

Age 1-6 7-12 13-14 Number

tilnes times times Enrolled
3 years 5 4 0 9
4 years 23 11 1 34
5 years 19 7 3 26
6 years 14 17 6 31
7 years 26 9 1 35
8 years 13 4 1 17
9 years 3   3

It is interesting to note that the

six-year-old group had the most regu-
lar attendance record. Also, among the
children who attended only once,
twelve asked to be registered on the
day of the zoo trip and then did not
attend again.

Within a week following the clos-
ing of the program, double postcards
were sent to those families whose chil-
dren had attended more or less regu-
larly. These cards, made up with a half
to be returned, indicated our pleasure
in helping the youngsters to have a
happy time and asked for return in-
formation concerning the child’s ex-
perience. Specifically, the questions
asked were: Has the play program
helped your child? How? If you have
a child seven to eight years of age,
was the program a suitable one?
Would you like a similar one next
year? Would you be willing to help
if the program is repeated?

Out of about seventy-five cards sent
out, thirty-two were returned—many
giving specific answers. Typical of
these were: “My daughter seems to
share and cooperate better with other
children”; “It made him more con-
genial”; “Made him feel more inde-
pendent”; “It gave him a planned pro-
gram of activity. He called it
camp’ ”;
school

‘my
“The idea of leaving mother
has established”;
“More independent, the children con-
tinue entertaining themselves, doing
the things at home. They make a bet-
ter evaluation of casual playmates, and
it gave them something for which to
look forward.” There was some indi-

for been

cation that the program had not been
quite mature enough for the older
children. A large percentage of the
mothers agreed to help if the program
is planned for another summer.

In conclusion, it seems that the proj-
ect has proved of value in many ways.
First, it provided interesting, safe play
for a sizeable group of pre-school
youngsters for a portion of the sum-
mer. Second, it established a precedent
for such a program staffed by volun-
teers. Third, it was accomplished at a
minimum of expense—under ten dol-
lars—and with a minimum of equip-
ment. Fourth, the relationship estab-
lished between the women who decided
to “do something other than criticize”
in order to meet their children’s needs
has been a rich and meaningful one.

On the basis of this experiment, it
seems desirable to recommend that
some such program be continued, pos-
sibly enlarged, either under volunteer
auspices or, preferably, with at least
one experienced, paid leader who
would supervise the volunteers at more

of these centers.

It’s 

 

GYM EQUIPMENT

Gymnaslum Equlpment
Telescoplc Gym Seats

Basketball Scoreboards

Basketball Backstops

Steel Lockers, Lockerobes
and Grade-Robes

7am gm ems,
FRED MEDART PRODUCTS,INc.

3566 DE KALB ST. ST. lOUIS 18, M0.

5%

For 78 Years
The Standard Of Quality

 

53

 

Outdoor F loodlights

New, weatherproof cluster lights for
outdoor protective lighting, recreation
areas, parking lots, boundary fence
lighting and other outdoor uses are
provided with the new Stonco Cluster
Box Number 25, announced by the
Stone Manufacturing Company of

Elizabeth 4, New Jersey.

 

Designed to conserve critical alumi-
num, the new unit combines tough
aluminum alloys that are precision
die-cast under tremendous pressure to
provide greater structural strength
with less aluminum by weight than
in conventional wiring troughs. A re-
movable cast aluminum cover plate,
sealed with a heavy cork gasket, pro-
vides quick, easy access to inside wir-
ing and speeds up installation and the
addition of supplementary lamphold-
ers. Each box has six holes tapped one-
half-inch IPS to take from one to five
standard lampholders for standard
ISO-watt, ZOO-watt and 300-watt out-
door weatherproof reflector bulbs. Ac-
cessories immediately available include
slip fitters for pipe mounting and
brackets for wall mounting, although
mounting directly to one-half—inch con-
duit is made without accessories.

Model Aviation Kit
The Plymouth Motor Corporation,

54

sponsors of the International Model
Plane Contest, are offering special
courses and materials, in kit form, to
recreation departments, schools, civic
organizations and clubs at nominal
cost. These kits, AMA (Academy of
Model Aeronautics) approved and
meeting every requirement for AMA
competitive flying, are designed to
guide a model builder through a group
of well-chosen model types which ulti-
mater prepare him for competition.
Complete with photographs, drawings,
illustrations and step-by-step direc-
tions, these kits are also proving to be
invaluable to leaders and teachers with
no training in model aircraft, as well
as to those who are experts, in helping
them to organize and teach their
model aviation groups. Interest in this
hobby with a purpose—to build char-
acter in young Americans—is becom-
ing more and more widespread. In
Detroit, Michigan, model aviation is
a featured course in the public schools;
in Cincinnati, Ohio, model aviation is
a regular activity of the city recrea-
tion department; and, in many cities,
it is included in the program of the
various service clubs.

Further information regarding the
Plymouth Aero League program can
be had by writing to the Contest Man-
ager, International Model Plane Con-

.tests, Plymouth Motor Corporation,

Detroit 31, Michigan.

For Camp Directors

Artvue Albums solve the problems
of camps seeking a more effective way
of advertising their merits. Utilizing
actual photographs of camp scenes and
activities, plus printed details, the al-
bums can be mailed directly to pros-
pective candidates at the rate of two
cents each or sold as mementos.

To order these albums from the Art-
vue Post Card Company, 225 Fifth
Avenue, New York 10, New York, send
eleven photographs of your camp, with
titles for each—ten of thcse photo-
graphs to be used for the inside folder
and the eleventh for thc cover design.
The minimum order must be for one
thousand albums, which sell for 161/;
cents each. Two thousand albums cost
14% cents each; four thousand, 12%
cents each, with prices including the
cover art work, cover title and the
title for each inside picture.

Knitting Machine

The Knitnlaster precision knitter is
a new deve10pment in knitting 111a-
chines. Fabricated of steel, the machine
makes non-curling fabric up to thirty
stitches wide—approximately eight
inches—and as long as desired. Scarfs,
hats, berets and mittens can be made
complete on the machine, while larger
articles——-such as afghans and sweat-
ers—can be made in strips and then
sewed together.

 

The knitting operation consists of
three simple steps: winding yarn on
the pins; releasing the previous row
of stitches with one movement; “cast-
ing over” the new row of stitches with
a few sweeps of the hand.

The major advantage of the Knit-
master is that simple stitches need not
be individually cast over—making this
an ideal device for young and old who
have never knitted before and who

wish to create useful articles.

In addition, the fact that the Knit-
master is a machine makes it espe-
cially suitable for the use of men in
occupational therapy who wouldn’t bc
seen with a pair of knitting needles
in their hands, but to whom the Knit-
master proves a challenging tool. For
further information, write to the Ains-
lie Knitting Machine Company, 740-
750 Grand Street, Brooklyn, New York.

RECREATION

OFFICIAL

PITCHING
D HORSESHOES

SUPER RINGER

  

D- ' " JUNIOR SHOE

Diamond Colk manufactures the most complete line of
pitching horseshoes and occessories, Including the
Super-Eagle, and Dauble Ringer, and also the lighter
weight Juniar shoes. All shoes are made from highest
grode steel, forged to exoct weight for perfect bal-
once. Corried in stock by most hardworo distributors
everywhere.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CD.

4616 Grand Avenue o Duluth, Minnesota

 

 CHAMPIBNS
"*' cunnsr

Finest In The World
For The World's

Greatest Athletes

Wm

nu: that!!! NV 71v: Inna .‘
euctunuo con-run a n. c u a. no

APRIL 1951

 

 

  

00.000.000.000...“-mum-Congo...“mo-0......
dleJJJaJJuJJuJ-OJJJJJJJJddaaddggq-igadlaJJJJJ’JJJJJJJJJ’
JJJJJJJJJJJJJJ-IJJJJ-‘C-l-l-J-JJ-J-JJJJ‘OO IJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJ
JJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJuJ .pJ.JJl.eJJJJ‘ JJ.J-JJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJ
JJJJJJJJdJ-OJJJJJJJJ-vJJJ.-'JJJJJJ JJJJJJJJJJJJJ’JJJJJJJJJ
’JjJJJJ-JJJJJJJJJJJJJJHJ.‘ ‘;.:JJJJJ$J$JJJJJ:=:JJJ:::J
‘J‘ ‘rJ J JJ
:: ‘ . g  jjjng:J:“‘......:-JJ‘
JJ‘OOODOQQ 0°.JJJJJJJJ‘.J6 éd‘llalJJJJJ.°88°%nooQ:JJ
JJCSOOOOOOOcao-JJJJJJJ a J. eeedadyeg O 980 JJ
J::2§§6:J‘=£§JJ:JJ‘J“J Oggo“dlld'dl: 
J -' JJ Id! at gl ‘JJJJJ g £2 ..
JJ 90-- ug J J O .- JJ
SaJJJe Oggaoojjga‘; o0§ O 6 J"==:- ‘3, JJJ'JJ:
JJJJJJI Do...- . ‘e (5  ,‘ .OJA°.JJJJJJJ
‘pJJJJJJJCO-h—S. ‘JJémggooO; édJ“‘-8JJO.JJJJJJJ,
JJJJJJJJ. «ago-D OJOOCIO JJJJJJJO JJJJJ J .JJJJJ,JJ
JJ'JJJJJJ. .n—e OOOglo Qd“JJJ .r OJJJJ‘ a. .JJJJJJJ’
JJJJJJJ‘§°—ao:e= .JJJ log ’3‘033. $J°§‘éJ:J;$J
J-JJJJJ‘ _: J ‘ IO 0 J’ J JJ J
JJJ‘g 8   o ’J‘ JJJJ: J‘- 8 g“ddl
)JJJJ J J o I,
::.°°°§::.=:O:JJJJJ;J‘2 OD J‘éjjisldg JOOJ “baggie:
--J JJ—J J J JJ J
:5; 008 2.4Jdajsza‘d'18 J“IJJJOJJJ. 
JJ .JJJJJ...;J;. JJJJJJ JJJJJJOJJ JJ
JJJ 88- SOJaJJJaeaJ.‘ JJJ .JJJ-JJJ'JJJ -..'.....J’J
JJJJJJJ6}JJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJ‘“.‘JJIJJJJJJJJJ’JJJJJJJJJJJJ
’JJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJaJJJ‘OJJJO‘JJJJJJJJJJJJJJJOJJJJJJJJ
JJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJ‘J JJJJJ ‘IJ‘JJJJJIJ’JJJ’JJJ’J’JJ
JJJJJJ’JJIIJJJJJJ’J’ ‘£.JJJJJJJ  JJJJJJJJJ'JJJJJJJJJJJ
JJJJJJJJJJJJdggJJJJJJ JJJJJJJJJJ Jag: J'JJJJJJJ‘JJ’JJJJJJ
:‘J‘d‘io’o'i‘iiad‘dlidi‘ ‘(J‘J‘“e‘“eed’4“‘e'ie1e{.4e’d"d'l

Beadwork in color!

 

Now, for the first time, you can offer your Indian group a
complete book of Indian lore that shows them in color how
to make authentic Indian bcadwork! They’ll share your en—
thusiasm when they see this rare new book with its wealth
of usable material for hundreds of fascinating beadwork
designs.

AMERICAN
INDIAN
BEADWORK

W. Ben Hunt and J. F. Burshears

132 beadwork designs in full color!
More than 100 black and white applied designs!
Photographs of Koshare Indian dancers in full costume!
19 working drawings of fundamental construction!

Size of pages: 9x 12 inches.

The book itself is as colorful and bcautiful as the Indian
ceremonial dances which the authors know so well from
their personal contacts with tribcs all ovcr the country. It
contains both simple and complicated geometric and floral
designs and rosettes worked out by various Indian tribes
such as Sioux, Cheyenne, Ute, Lake Indians, Blackfoot, and
Apache.

Also included are a short history of beadwork of the Amer—
ican Indian and discussion of types of beading and looms.
Here, too, are tips and hints on bead selection, sewing. and
treatment of materials, so that any boy or girl can learn
the craft quite easily. ‘

Provide your craft leaders with American Indian Beadurork.
It is the answer to their many requests for reliable patterns,
methods, and information on this great art of the Indian,
attractively presented. Order your copy today. $5.00

The Bruce Publishing Co.
4404 Bruce Bldg... Milwoukee I, Wis.

 

 

Bruce—Milwoukee: Pleose send me cop of AMERICAN
INDIAN BEADWORK by Hunt and Burshears ot $5.00 per copy.

Nome

 

 

 

 

I'
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
I
|
|
|
l
|
|
|
l
|
|
|
|
|
L

U1
U1

 

More Fun in the Water

Eidola Jean Bourgaize. Association

Press, New York. 32.00.

P ublished in February, in plenty of

time for those who are planning
a summer water program, More Fun
in the Water is not a book on swim-
ming techniques but, rather, a pro-
gressive presentation of water games.
Starting with games for the non-
swimmer, under the title of “Fun for
the Landlubber,” it proceeds step-by-
step, in every succeeding chapter, with
games which require more skill in the
water and which will help the begin-
ner to improve his swimming ability.
“Today there are many water games
which are fun, exciting and safe,”
writes the author. “Most of these
games are modern but it has takcn
centuries to develop them.” He gives
special credit to the YMCA aquatic
program for experimenting with, and
testing, such games through the years.
Water stunts, contests, parties and
pageants also are included. Some of
this material will be reprinted in the
June issue of RECREATloN.

High School Intramural Program

William W. Scheerer. Burgess Pub-
lishing Company, Minneapolis, Min-

- nesota. $2.00.
T his manual, designed to help the
coach, faculty member or anyone
interested in promoting an intramural
sports program in high school, con-
tains an excellent selection of games,
contests and tournaments which also
should be very useful to the recreation
director. Its publication is the result
of a study made under a grant from
the Carnegie Foundation, augmented
by study through the Intramural Sec-
tion for the College Physical Educa-

tion Association.

56

new Publications

Covering the Leisure-time Field

The aim of intramural Sports pro-
grams is to reach as many students as
possible with sports that will have a
carry-over value long after the stu-
dents leave school. Clear and well-
tested rules are given for such games
and sports as touch football, basket-
ball, one-half court basketball, softball,
six-player softball, ping-pong or table
tennis, horseshoes, golf, track and field
meets and so on.

State Recreation
Organization and Administration

Harold D. Meyer and Charles K.
Brightbill. A. S. Barnes and Com-
pany, New York. $3.50.

D r. Meyer and Mr. Brightbill, col-

laborating a gain as authors,
have prepared an interesting book
upon the important subject of state
recreation services. D e s i g n i n g the
book primarily for students as a class-
room text, they have compiled and
presented a great deal of helpful in-
formation upon recreation services
available primarily to communities
through the many different kinds of
state agencies which offer these serv-
ices—recreation, education, welfare,
health, library, park, forest, fish and
game, highway, planning, resource de-
ve10pment, youth agencies, universi-
ties and the cooperative agricultural
extension services.

The authors profess a “strong con-
viction that certain patterns of pro-
cedure and structure, adjusted to local
conditions, will result in the maxi-
mum of desired results” in providing

'state recreation services for communi-

ties. It is clear, from the arguments
presented and from the bulk of the
material devoted to state recreation
commissions, that their conviction is
for such commissions. The book also

offers a great deal of very informative
material concerning the North Caro-
lina, Vermont and California pro-
grams which were established by leg-
islative action between 1945 and 1947.
In addition to the material on ex-
isting programs, Dr. Meyer and Mr.
Brightbill include chapters on the ad-
ministration of state recreation; the
development of state recreation serv-
ices, surveys and inventories; legisla-
tion and the coordination of state
recreation; finance and staff.

High Times
Nellie Zetta Thompson. E. P. Dutton

and Company, Incorporated, New
York. $2.50.
T his book was published several

months ago, but the exigencics of
space prevented its review. It’s much
too good to let pass, however! In fact,
it’s the answer to fervent prayers for
new, sparkling ideas for that so-hard-
to-plan-for group—the teen-agers and
young adults.

First of all, it’s full of themes——
themes for banquets, proms, parties,
dances and other social affairs! Glam-
orous themes, amusing themes, orig-
inal themes—with just enough on
decoration and programs to get the
group going. But it also gives new and
really good ideas for decorations, fa-
vors, publicity, invitations and what
to plan for the program.

Anyone who works with groups of
young pe0ple in planning dances, ban-
quets and such affairs knows how
much a book like this is necded. Every
lcader of such groups should sit right
down and order a copy from the pub-
lisher. We heartily recommend it!—
Virginia Musselman, Correspondcnce
and Consultation Bureau, National
Recreation Association.

RECREATION

Recreation Leadership Courses

Sponsored jointly by the National Recreation Association and local recreation departments

April, May and June 1951

HELEN DA met-1v
Social Recreation

RUTH lit 1 LERS
Social Recreation

ANNE LIVINGSTON
Social Recreation

MILDRED SCANmN
Social Recreation

FRANK STAPLES
Arts and Crafts

GRACE WALKER
Creative Recreation

.leflerson County, Kentucky
April 2-5

Huntington, West Virginia
May 2331

Lexington, Kentucky
June 48

Toledo. Ohio

June 11-15

Toledo. Ohio
June 4-8

Pasadena, California
April 2-5

Burbank. California
April 9-12

San Antonio, Texas
May 7-11

New Orleans, Louisiana
May 14-17

Corpus Christi, Texas
May 21-24

Fort \Vorth, Texas
May 28-31

Waco, Texas

June 4-8

Salina, Kansas

Junc 11-15

Vancouver, \Vashington
April 2-5

Poeatello, ldaho

April 9-12

Orlando, Florida

April 16-20

West Palm Beach, Florida
April 23-26

Fort Lauderdale, Florida
April 30-May 4

Miami, Florida

May 7-11

Tampa, Florida

May 14-18

Pittsfield, Massachusetts
June 18-22

Grand Forks, North Dakota
April 2-5

Yuma, Arizona

April 16-19

Manhattan. Kansas
April 24-26

Wichita, Kansas

April 30-May 3

Salina, Kansas

May 7-10

Niagara Falls, New York
May 21-June 1

Toledo, Ohio

June 4-15

l’ontiac, Michigan

June 18 and 19

Monticello, Illinois
April 30-May 5
Merom, Indiana
May 7-12

Pensacola, Florida
May 14-18

Dorchester County, Maryland

May 21-25
Toledo, Ohio
June 4-14

Charlie Vettiner, Director, Jefierson County Playground
and Recreation Board. Louisville 2

Marvin A. Lewis. Cabell County Recreation: Board,
Field House

Miss Anna S. Pherigo, Executive Director, Board of
Park Commissioners, Gratz Park

Arthur C. Morse, Supervisor of Recreation,
214 Safety Building

K

Arthur G. Morse, Supervisor of Recreation,
214 Safety Building

Cecil F. Martin, Director, Department of Recreation,
1503 East Villa Street

William F. Keller, Superintendent of Recreation,

111 West Olive Street

Miss Lou Hamilton, Director, Recreation Department,
706 Simpson Street

John Brcehtel, Assistant Director of Recreation

William P. Witt. Superintendent of Recreation, Box [622

R. D. Evans, Superintendent of Recreation,
215 West Vickery Boulevard
John Morrow, Superintendent of Recreation, City Hall

David A. Zook, Superintendent of Recreation,
302 City Hall Building

Carl Gustafson, Supervisor of Recreation, Memorial Building
Mrs. Orlean Hronek, 327 West Carson Street

Dr. R. L. Fairing, University of Florida, Gaincsville

Dr. R. L. Fairing, University of Florida, Cainesville

Dr. R. L. Fairing, University of Florida, Gainesville

Dr. R. L. Fairing, University of Florida, Gainesville

Dr. R. L. Fairing, University of Florida, Gainesville

Vincent J. Hebert, Superintendent of Parks and Recreation,
52 School Street

llomer D. Abbott, Director of Recreation,
Board of Park Commissioners
Wayne Cunningham, Superintendent of Parks and Recreation

Miss Mary Elsie Border, Assistant Club Leader, Division of
Extension, State College of Agriculture and Applied Science
l‘at Haggerty, Superintendent of Recreation,

401 City Building

David A. Zook, Superintendent of Recreation,

302 City Hall Building

Myron N. Hendrick, Director of Recreation, OHice of the
Bureau of Parks, City Hall

Arthur G. Morse, Supervisor of Recreation,

214 Safety Building

David Ewalt, Director of Recreation,

Parks and Recreation

Harold F. Halfyard, Chairman, Continuation Committee,
Leisureeraft and Counseling Camp, Ciseo, lllinois

F. L. McReynolds, Associate in Rural Youth Work and Recrea-
tion. Agricultural Extension Service, Purdue University,
Lafayette. Indiana

Reuben Orr, Coordinator of Education in Escambia County

W. T. Boston, Superintendent of Schools,
Cambridge, Maryland
Arthur G. Morse, Supervisor of Recreation,
214 Safety Building

Attendance at training courses conducted by National Recreation Association leaders is usually Open to all who wish to attend.
For details as to location of the course, content, registration procedure and the like, communicate With the sponsors of the

courses as listed above.

 

,4 7%“:  €006

Appearing MAY 1951

Vaclxded:

Planning for the Camp Program
“campkeeping”
Belated Program Activities

Composite Programs

The Camp Program Book

by Catherine 'Hammett and Virginia Musselman

Outdoor living is at the heart of camping. More good program suggestions that
relate to this situation have long been needed, and Miss Hammett’s and Miss Mus-
selman’s book offers many helps to camp directors and leaders.

The term “program” includes ev-
erything the camper does in camp,
planned and unplanned. The program
is not an end in itself but a means
whereby the camper develops those
personal qualities, attitudes, skills and
interests that are the primary values
of the camp.

To:

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION

 FOUI’TI‘I Ave. New York 10, N. Y.  pages contain not only a

wide variety of program ideas and
resource suggestions but also infor»
mation on techniques of leadership
and means of making the program
more effective through democratic
planning. The emphasis on the rela-

|

l

I

l

l

I

I

l

l

!

Please send: I
l
l
| tion of the program to the camp en-
|
l
I
l
i
I
I
I
l
l
|
I
I
I
I

C] copies The Camp Program Book
[I Enclosed is my check for $

vironment is particularly important.
This book is a valuable addition to
the growing library of camp litera-
ture—From introduction by Bey-
nold E. Carlson, President, American
Campin Association, Associate Pro-
fessor 0 Recreation, Indiana Univer-
sity.

D Pleose bill to

Name

Address

$5.00

City or Town—__.___ State

 

 

