 

   

RECREATION

is one of the fields in w/Jz'c/y
SCHOOL ACTIVITIES

has been serving the schools of America
for twenty years. Undcr the editorship of
Dr. Harry C. McKown, well—known au-
thority on extracurricular activities, this
monthly magazine promotcs the following
interests:

ACTIVITY PROGRAMS — Current thought of leaders in the field of democratic group activities.
SCHOOL ASSEMBLIES — An assembly program for each week of the school year.

CLASS PLAYS — Help in selecting and staging dramatic productions.

CLASS ORGANIZATIONS — Directions for the successful guidance of school groups.
FINANCING ACTIVITIES - Suggestions for financing student functions.

A ATIILETICS — News and ideas on late developments in intra-mural and interscholastic sports.

DEBATE — Both sides of the current high school debate question.

DEPARTMENT CLUBS — Instructions and aids in the directing of school clubs of all types.
HOME ROOMS — Ideas and plans for educative home room projects.

PEP ORGANIZATIONS — Devices for stimulating loyalty and school spirit.

STUDENT PUBLICATIONS — Guidance in the production of school newspaper and yearbook.
PARTIES AND BANQUETS —Suggestions for educative and wholesome social activities.
STUDENT GOVERNMENT - Sound direction in development of student sense of responsibility.
MISCELLANEOUS ACTIVITIES — Music, commencement, point systems, etc.

Subscrzption Price  Subscribe Now

School Activities Publishing Co.

1515 LANE STREET TOPEKA, KANSAS

I [DUISVILLE SLUGGEH BATS

FIRST m SOFTBALLAS m BASEBALL

Building championship power into Louisville Slug-
gers has been our business since 1884. This oc-
cumuloted knowledge of but making is your os-
suronce that the Louisville Slugger models you

select are the finest bots which skill and "know
how” can produce.

A but for every type of

 

186

1...... PORTER

CHICAED OFFICE: 554 N. Michigan Ave. Chicago 11. Film: suturisr 7-1252

. . . (It [curling gj-zm fro/22 (0.0 {Jo-roar! 1/3: (/9022? 1'; Porter

The Parter "Hoistaway" backstap hoists to
the ceiling ta permit an unobstructed view
of the stage in the Clemson College
gymnasium.

Clemson chooses ‘F5n‘er

At Clemson College, in South Carolina, you will find
Porter basketball backstops—just as in other leading
schools and institutions all over America. For years
countless clubs, universities and communities have
relied on Porter for all they need to give their gym-
nasiums the finest in equipment. Porter Basketball
Backstops and Porter Gymnasium Apparatus are dis-
tinguished by the highest quality in design and manu-
facture, and backed by nearly a century of skill and
experience. Why not write today, stating your
requirements?

Manufacturers of Gymnasium,

CORPORATION

Playground and Swimming Pool Equipment

  
  
     

Main caurr at Clemsan College is
equipped with Porter 2173 Farward-
Fald "Haistaway" Backstaps with the
Patter “X-tended” feature and Patter
2MB Rectangular Plate Glass Back-

| l

boards.

 

let Our Engineers Help You

You can entrust your planning prob-
lems to Porter's engineering staff.
and be _confident of satisfactory and
economical solutions. No obligation.
Write today.

Ottawa, Illinois

 

HEW YDRK BFFIDE: 11 VI. 42nd St. New Yuk 1!. Phone: lumen 3-1342

RECREATION

SEPTEMBER, 1951

 

Editor, JOSEPH PRENDERGAST
Managing Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON
Editorial Assistant, SONIA RACHLIN
Business Manager, ROSE JAY SCHWARTZ
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Recreation Administration, GEORGE BUTLER
Program Activities, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

Vol. XLV Price 35 Cents No. 4

On the Cover

September is the magician that turns tennis racquets
into textbooks, beaches into classrooms. For millions
of boys and girls it heralds “back to school again,”
with the accent upon readin’, ’ritin’, ’rithmetic and
recreation. For, as John Dewey so aptly put it:
“Education has no more serious responsibility than
making adequate provision for the enjoyment of
recreative leisure; not only for the sake of immediate
health, but still more, if possible, for the sake of its
lasting effect upon the habits of the mind.” Photo,
courtesy Ewing Galloway, New York.

PhotO Credits

Pages 193, 194, 195, Madison, Wisconsin, Community
Center; page 197, Acme Photo, New York; pages
198, 200, Harold Winder, Oakland, California; page
207, Joe Bell, Alexandria Gazette; pages 208, 209,
Wally Johnson; page 210, The New York Times;
pages 212, 213, Arthur Leipzig, The New York
Times; page 221, Herald Sun Photo, Durham, North
Carolina.

Next Issue

How can a recreation leader help deveIOp the “habit
of books”? How can you protect your forest pre-
serves? Can you batter up—with mufiins, not base-
ball? Is television pal or pest to the recreation pro-
gram? These questions demand answers—and an-
swers, answers and more answers to all sorts of
problems are what you’ll find in the October issue.
You’ll even learn how to get a job with no pay!

RECREATION is published monthly except July
and August by the National Recreation Associa-
tion, a service organization supported by voluntary
contributions, at 315 Fourth Avenue, New York
10, New York; is on file in public libraries and is
indexed in the Readers’ Guide. Subscri tions $3.00
a car. Canadian agency, G. R. Welc Company,
Ltd., 1149 King Street West, Toronto 1, Ontario;
Canadian subscription rate 33.85. Re-entered as
second—class matter April 25, 1950, at the Post
OHice in New York, New York, under Act of
March 3, 1879. Acce tance for mailing at special

rate of postage provi ed for in Section 1103, Act
of October 8, 1917, authorized May 1, 1924.

Advertising and Production OHice: ones Press,
Fifth and Fifth South, Minneapolis 1 , Minnesota.

Space Representatives: Robert Edgell, 104 East
Fortieth Street, New York 16, New York Mark
Minahan, 168 North Michigan Avenue, Chicago,
Illinois; Keith H. Evans, 3757 Wilshire Boulevard,
Los Angeles 5, California.

Copyright, 1951, by the
National Recreation Association, Incorporated

Printed in the U.S.A. 3%”
° Trade mark registered in U. S. Patent Oflice.

SEPTEMBER 1951

THE MAGAZINE

0F

 

 

THE RECREATION MOVEMENT
CONTENTS

General Features

Television: Friend or Foe? (editorial) Wayne Coy ...... .. 189

Destination—Boston .......................................................... .. 190
Evening Speakers .............................................................. .. 191
A Letter Of Appreciation, Josephine Randall .................... .. 196
Arts and Crafts—International Style ................................ .. 197
Children’s Fairyland, William Penn Mott, Jr. ............... .. 198
DO We Educate for Leisure? Dr. John W. Best ............... .. 201
Song Leaders in College, Robert B. Walls ...................... .. 208
Hobbies—A Jungle from Table Seeds, Meyer Berger ...... .. 210
Brueghel’s Games—Today ................................................ .. 212
Recreation in Minnesota State Hospitals,

Frederick M. Chapman .................................................. .. 214
Child Leaders Take Over Noon-Hour Playground,

Thomas J. Kilroy .......................................................... .. 219
Dr. Peter W. Dykema ........................................................ .. 220
Cease Firing, Eddie Durlaeher ........................................ .. 227
Recreation News ................................................................ .. 237

Administration
A Successful Community Center, RObert W. Hurd   193
Social Recreation Leadership ............................................ .. 202
A Cooperative Countywide Recreation Program .............. .. 205

A Volunteer Leaders’ Training Course, J Ohn A. Turner'.... 217
Can Your Department Pass This Test? Kenneth M. Kurtz 223
Personnel, W. C. Sutherland ............................................ .. 2'24
Father on the Playground, James A. Sharp ..................... .. 228
Desirable Practices in Athletics for Girls and Women  229

Program Activities

SchOOl Days——D0es Fun Pay? Mrs. Ellen P. Taylor ...... .. 203
The Goblins Phone on Halloween, Eunice Ware ............. .. 204
Ground Billiards, Florence Birkhead ................................ .. 206
Halloween in Olde Alexandria .......................................... .. 207
Play-Abed Kits, Viva Whitney .......................................... .. 211
A Day’s Camping for Youngsters Over Sixty,

Gertrude M. White ........................................................ .. 221
Greeting Newcomers tO Vallejo, Keith A. Macdonald  222
How TO DO It! Frank A. Staples ................................... .. 226
Recipes for Fun—~S0cial Games—There’s a Trick tO It  231
Minimum Arts and Crafts TOOls,' Frank A. Staples ...... .. 235

Regular Features

Things You Should Know .................................................. .. 192
World at Play .................................................................... .. 234
Recreation Market News .................................................. .. 236
Magazines and Pamphlets .............................................. .. 238
BOOks Received .................................................................. .. 238
New Publications .............................  ............................... .. 239
Recreation Leadership Courses .................. ..lnside Back Cover

187

 

 

 

188

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION

A Service Orgonization Supported by Voiuntory Contributions
Executive Director, JOSEPH PRENDERGAST

 

   

OFFICERS
0110 T. MALLu'r .. . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Chairman of the Board
PAUL Moon. In. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. First Vice-President
Mrs. Ocean L. MILLs . . . . . . . . . . . .......Second Vice-President
SusAN M. Lee. .Third Vice-President end Secretary of the Boerd
AOAIAN M. MAssIIt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Treasurer
GusrAvns T. Ktta'r . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Treesurer Emeritus
Joseen PasnoaacAsr . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Secretery

BOARD OF DIRECTORS

F. W. H. AoAAts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. New York, N. Y. Mas. CHAALss V. Htcxox . . . . . . . . .. .. .Michigsn City. ind.

F. Ctltcc Bths . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Bostoo, Mass. Mus. Juan D. JAMEsoN . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Bellport. N. Y.

Mas. Roast-r Wooos BLIss . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Washington. D. C. SusAN M. Lee. . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . New York. N. Y.

Mas. Armor 6. CUMMEI . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .lecksonville. Fle. Orro T. MALLnr . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Philadelpl:ia. Pa.

WILLIAM H. DAVIs ..: . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..New York, N. Y. CARL E. MILLIer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Auguste, Me.

Hun P. DAvIson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..New York. N. Y. Mas. OcoeN L. MILLs .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Woodbury. N. Y.

Mrs. PAUL GALLAOIsrn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Omaha. Nebr. PAUL Moon, In... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jersey City. N. J.

Romn- GAIum-r . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Baltimore, Md. lessen PIENOERGAST  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..-.New York. N. Y-

ROeltar GIANT, 3rd . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Oyster Bay. N. Y. Mas. Stcswno STEIN . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Sen Frencisco, Calif.

AuerN E. CrIrrtrns . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Seattle, Wash. GrANr TIrsworrn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Noroton, Conn.

Mrs. NoruAN HAIutowsA . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . ..Fitchburg. Mass. 1. C. WALsn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . “Yonkers. N. Y.

Futonch M. WAItaURc . . . . . . ..

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .New York. N. Y.

 

HEADQUARTERS STAFF

Executivo Director’s OEice
Geoace E. Dictrt THOMAS E. RIVERS
Rosa JAT ScHVAA'rz Alt'rHUIt WILLIAMs

WALoO E. HAINS'OITH

Correspondenco and Consultetion

Res eerch Depertrnent

DAVID J. DUBOIs
ELIZAas'rH CLtrrON

Gaosca D. Bums
MUIIEL McGANN

Service to State: . . . . . ROBERT E. GAMaLa

Area: and Facilities—Planning and Survey:
H. C. HUTCHINS ALAN B. Bonn-r

Servico . Katherine F. Barker Memorial
thtctNtA MusseLMAN Work with Volunteers Secretary for Women and Girir
Gerry.qu Botanm LOAAINE WILLIAMI Hum M. DAUNCET

Defense-Related Activities
Gsosce T. AoAMs HELENA G. How

Editoriel Department
DOIOTH'I’ DONALosON SONIA EAcHLm

Personnel Service
WILLA“: C. SWHEILANO Anna E. JENSEN
MART GuasarrAr

MART Qurax

E. BEATIICE S'raAIth
MAAOAAer DANtVOIt-rn

FAANces WHITE Ls:

Field Department

CHAALas E. Reno JAues A. MAotsON

industriai Recreation. . . . . .C. E. Barter.

Recreation Leadership Training Course:

Eur-H EHLaAs ANNE LIvtherN
MILDRED SCANLON Fun: A. SrArLas
GtAce WALtsa

 

DISTRICT REPRESENTATIVES

Southern District

New England District Southwest District

RICHARD S. WESTGATE. . . . .Portland. Mc.

Middle Atlentic District
JOHN W. FAus'r. . . . .East Orange. N. J.

RALrH VAN FLaa'r. . . . . .Clcarwater, Fts.

 Me HAT. e e e e eNa‘hvillc. Tenn.   

Mtss MAIuON Psaeca. . . .Alcxsndria. Vanna” VAN A‘WM-l- - - - - -D3"“- T“-

Gsoscs A. Nessrr'r. . . .New York, N .Y.

Greet Lekes District

JOHN J. COLLIEA. . . . . . . . .Toledo. Ohio
Ross" L. Hornet. . . . . .Madison, Wis.

Midwest District

AA'rHUIt TODD. . . . . . . .Kausas City. Mo.
HAAOLo LArHsor. . . . . . . .Dcnvcr, COlO.LvNN S. RODNET. . . . .Los Angclcs. Calif.

WILLAao H. SHUMAAO. . . .Scattle. Wash.

Peci5c Southwest District

 

Affiliate Membership

Afhliate membership in tbe NatiOnal

'threation Associetion is open to ell non-

profit private and public organizations
whose function is wholly or primarily the
provision or promotion of recreetion serv-
ices or which include recreation es an im-
portent part of their total program and
whose cooperation in the work of the asso-
cietion would. in the opinion of the associa-
tion‘s Board of Directors. further the ends
of the national recreation movement.

Aetive Associate Membership

Active essociate membership in the
National Recreetion Association is open to
all individuals who are actively engaged
on a iull-time or part-time employed basis
or as volunteers in e nonprofit privete or
public recreation orgeniration and whose
cooperation in the work of the association
would. in the opinion of the association's
Board of Directors, further the ends of the
national recreation movement.

Contributors

The continuetion oi the work oi the
National Recreation Association from year
to year is made possible by the splendid
cooperetion of several hundred volunteer
sponsors throughout the country. and the
generous contributions of thousands oi
supporters of this movement to bring bealth.
happiness end creative living to the boys
and girls and the men and women nl
America. if you would like to join in the
support OI this movement. yOu mey send
your contribution direct to the essociation.

 

The National Recreation Association is a nation-
wide, nonprofit, nonpolitical and nonsectarian civic
organization, established in 1906 and supported by
voluntary contributions, and dedicated to the service
of all recreation executives, leaders and agencies,

public and private, to the end that every child in
America shall have a place to play in safety and
that every person in America, young and old, shall
have an opportunity for the best and most satisfy-
ing use of his expanding leisure time.

F or further information regording the ossociotion’s services 0nd membership, pieose write to the
Executive Director, Notionoi Recreotion Association, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10, New York.

RECREATION

TELEVISION:

Friend or F 09?

by Wayne Coy

This is the challenge that confronts
the recreation movement of America in
the. mushroom growth of visual broad-
casting.

It is difficult to overestimate the
magnitude of this challenge. Every
day brings us new indications of the
profound impact of television upon al-
most every facet of American life.

A survey recently made by Hofstra
College for the National Broadcasting
Company disclosed that adults in the
metropolitan area of New York City
spend more time watching television
than they do with radio, newspapers
and magazines combined. Other reports
disclose that, in some communities, the
children spend more time before the
television screen than they do in school.
And, as yet, television has established
only a beachhead! We now have in
operation 107 stations; ultimately, we
will have at least two thousand.

Today’s stations are located in sixty-
three cities and cover an area contain-
ing sixty-two per cent of the population.
There are now approximately thirteen
million sets in use.

This, then, is the picture of the
physical mechanism of television. But
what of its impact upon the home, fam-
ily life, upon our children, our recre-
ational habits? Day by day, as par-
ents, teachers, civic leaders, legislators
and other observers become more ar-
ticulate, we can discern certain trends
that have grave implications for Amer-
ica’s recreation leaders.

Obviously television could be one of
the mightiest instruments ever devel-
oped for the furtherance of wholesome,
constructive recreational activity for
both adults and children. Television
could bring us leaders in sports, hand-
crafts, nature study, discussion tech-
niques, painting, the playing of musi-

SEPTEMBER 1951

It

cal instruments, camping and count-
less other hobbies. Instead of reaching
scores, such leaders could reach hun-
dreds of thousands. Pr0perly used,
television could stimulate viewers to
engage actively in many types of lei-
sure-time activity.

But we all know that, as of now, tele-
vision is mainly employed as another
spectator activity—probably the most
irresistible spectator activity of all. Its
influence, however, is not merely nega-
tive, as the mounting volume of 0011']-
plaints these days would indicate.

In one seventy-five-day period, the
Federal Communications Commission
received one thousand complaints re—
garding television. Those relating to
indecency, obscenity and profanity led
the list. Crime and horror programs,
and the lack of education programs,
were deplored.

Senator Edwin C. Johnson, chair-
man of the Senate Interstate and F or-
eign Commerce Committee, recently
warned telecasters that the use of hor-
ror programs is like opium—larger
doses constantly are required. And he
urged them to prevent the “foul and
obscene” from entering the home.

Director James V. Bennett, of the
Federal Bureau of Prisons and secre-
tary of the Section of Criminal Law
of the American Bar Association,
which is campaigning for better tele-
vision, has pleaded for a reduction in
crime shows and has asked for the
complete elimination of any broadcast
which blueprints crime in such a form
that it can be imitated.

The Southern California Association
for Better Radio and Television re-
cently noted that the average child in a
television home sees death inflicted by
violence more than forty times a week.
The report stated: “The effects of this

immoderate viewing of crime and vio-
lence follow one of two courses: (1)
Some children are upsct cmotionally;
(2) others become immune, callous
and indifferent to the sight of death,
injury and suffering inflicted upon
others.”

I am hopeful that positive, construc-
tive action to improve programming
will result from a study now being
made by the National Association of
Radio and Television Broadcasters of
television programming standards. This
group also will draft a set of stand-
ards. In a resolution, the NARTB took
cognizance of the effect of television
“upon the welfare of the family and
the individual members thereof, with
particular reference to children, its
contribution to the cultural progress
of the nation and its influence for good
upon the behavior patterns of Amer-
ican society and the society of na-
tions.”

In some communities, listener-view-
er councils are performing a valuable
service by a systematic, well-informed
and objective study of local television
service, and the publicizing of those
they consider worthwhile.

The advent of television, with its
many problems touching individuals
so intimately, needs the kind of trained
experienced leadership that you of the
recreation profession can provide. I
hope that you will concern yourselves
increasingly with measures to guide
this new medium in paths that will lead
it to a realization of its potentialities
as a great force for good. No one has
a greater right to be heard on this sub-
ject. And no one has a greater respon-
sibility. We look to you for help and
leadership.

In your consideration of this prob-
lem, always bear in mind that these
channels belong to the people of the
United States and are held by the li-

censees only as a trusteeship.

MR. COY, chairman of FCC, has been

reporter, editor and served in various
governmental administrative capacities.

189

 

“One if by land, two if by sea.” The old South Church still
stands as monument to our early fight for freedom.

190

This year, the National Recreation
Congress goes home. For, if the rec-
reation movement in America had
any one home, it is Boston, famed for those early sand
gardens and, a little later, for Joseph Lee and so many
founders and supporters of the Playground Association of
America, now the National Recreation Association.

And the beginning of the United States itself occurred
not far from Boston. Even more than winding streets, Bos-
ton has historic spots—Bunker Hill, Faneuil Hall, Old
North Church and many others.

The sand gardens have long since been succeeded by more
elaborate recreation areas and facilities. One of the im-
portant parts of the Congress this year will be not only a
chance to visit the city’s historic shrines—but, by popular
request, its more modern recreation areas and facilities.

One thing in particular which a Congress delegate will
be interested in seeing is the picture which links the two.
This is “The Dawn of Liberty,” which was presented to
the local recreation department by the Massachusetts Civic
League. The history of the picture includes the old story
told every local youngster in elementary history classes
about the British soldiers stOpping the Boston boys from

 

coasting on the Common and transferring their activities
to School Street (what is now the beginning of Beacon
Street, the slope going towards the State House). The
servant of General Halimand threw ashes on the slide; and
the boys then formed a committee and called upon the
general to protest. (Recreation Board Member Joe Lee, Jr.,
calls this the first recreation committee in Boston’s his-
tory.) General Cage, when informed of this, said: “The
very children hcre draw in a love of liberty with the air
that they breathe. You may go, my brave boys, and be
assured, if my troops trouble you again, they shall be
punished.” '

The heart of a Congress is discussion, and every attempt
is being made to plan the meetings'around vital topics.
In addition to other popular features of the program—such

RECREATION

as exhibits, banquet, dance and National
Recreation Association tea—~there will be
an exhibit of arts and crafts from Japan
(see page 197); and delegates will enter-
tain with a Congress Chorus, 3 Congress
Band. A whole day will be devoted to
meetings on “Recreation and National
Defense,” emphasizing services to armed
forces, defense production communities and
civilian defense. Training classes in music,
drama and social recreation will be held
Monday, Tuesday and Thursday afternoons
and Wichita, Kansas, is planning a special
“You Make It” demonstration of arts and
crafts work. Tuesday morning’s general
session will feature a panel discussion of
“Citizen Boards in the Park and Recrea-
tion Movement.”

Remember October 1-5, Statlcr Hotel,
Boston.

Evening Speakers

Among the distinguished speakers who will address the
evening meetings of this session of the Congress are Erwin
D. Canham, James J. Wadsworth and Otto A. Harbach.

Mr. Canham, editor of the Christian Science Monitor,
has traveled extensively to obtain first-hand coverage of
such significant events as the meeting of the League of
Nations, the London Naval and Economic Conferences,
trips of United States presidents, and to make nationwide
political surveys. A Rhodes scholar, he also is well-known
as a radio commentator.

James Wadsworth, long interested in government service,
has been an important figure in civilian defense since this
activity was revived just about a year ago. Now function-
ing as deputy administrator of the Federal Civil Defense
Administration, he previously was a
member of the New York Assembly
for ten years and served with the War
Assets Administration and with the
Economic Cooperation Administra-
tion.

Dean of American librettists, Otto
A. Harbach is the fifth president of
the American Society of Composers,
Authors and Publishers. The famous
playwright and lyricist was born in
Salt Lake City, Utah, and graduated
from Knox College in Galesburg,
Illinois. In 1909, he wrote his first

musical show, “Three Twins,” with
the late Karl Hoschna. This was a

O. A. Harbach

SEPTEMBER 1951

 

 

“The Dawn of Liberty,” locally owned, illustrates early Boston recreation history.

smash hit and contained his first successful song, “Cuddle

Up a Little Closer.” Other famous productions followed,
such as “The Firefly,” “High Jinks,” “Kid Boots,” “No,

No, Nanette,” “Rose Marie,” “Desert Song,” “The Cat and
the Fiddle,” “Roberta.”
The list of his collaborators reads like 3 “Who’s Who”

of the theatre, and includes Sigmund Romberg, Rudolf
Friml, Peter de Rose, Oscar Hammerstein II, George
Gershwin, Vincent Youmans, Irving Caesar and many
others.

Among Mr. Harbach’s thousand or more songs, his own
favorite is “Smoke Gets in Your Eyes,” written with
Jerome Kern. Some of his top songs are “Gianina Mia,”

“The Night Was Made for Love,” “Indian Love Call,”
“One Alone,” “Who.”

Together with Oscar Hammerstein II, Otto Harbach gcn-
erally has been credited with developing the musical com-
edy form in America—away from the revue type of show
into a play with music. A charter member of ASCAP, hc
has been a director of the society since 1920. He is a mem-
ber of the National Music Week Committee.

 

J. J. ‘Vadsworth

E. D. Canham

191

   

o A SURVEY of the effect of the mobil-
ization and defense program upon rec-
reation programs in every section of
the country is being completed by the
National Recreation Association in co-
operation with the National Advisory
Committee on Defense-Related Serv-
ices. A five-page questionnaire, sent to
over eight hundred city and county
recreation departments, surveys the
impact of armed forces personnel and
defense workers and their families up-
on local recreation programs; the de-
gree of preparation for civil defense
recreation services; the effect of mo-
bilization upon regular services; and
the extent of restrictions upon regular
programs through budget decreases,
rising costs, the M4 order of the NPA,
shortages of materials and the limited
availability of trained personnel at the
prevailing salaries.

. A NEW NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
ADULT EDUCATORS was organized at the
three-day national assembly of profes-
sional and non-professional workers in
adult education held in May in Colum-
bus, Ohio. Dr. Howard McClusky of
the University of Michigan was elected
president.

The new association brings together
the members of the American Associa-
tion for Adult Education and the De-
partment of Adult Education of the
National Education Association and
many adult educators not affiliated with
either organization. It launches a pro-
gram of professional services to adult
educators, planning for the rapid de-
velopment of consultation and field
services, advanced in-service education
and a program of professional publica-
tion. Through these and other activi-
ties, the National Adult Education As-

192

7% 2m .35de Km .

sociation will be giving special atten-
tion to the evaluation of adult educa-
tion programs, the development of
needed research, the improvement of
materials of instruction and the im-
provement of the pre- and in-service
preparation of adult educators.

Its National Organizing Committee
is working with West Coast adult edu-
cators on plans for the organization’s
first national conference, which is

scheduled to be held in Los Angeles,
October 22-25.
0 LOCAL CITIZENS 0F MANHATTAN, KAN-
SAS, are being converted into movie
actors for the filming of the develop-
ment of the city’s recreation program.
The semi-documentary film will then be
used by the United States State De-
partment to show West Germans how
a recreation program can be started
and to combat communism. Manhat-
tan was chosen from a field of twenty-
five 1nidwestern cities.
0 A MANUAL ON “EMERGENCY RECREA-
TION SERVICES IN CIVIL DEFENSE” has
been prepared by the National Recrea-
tion Association as a guide for local
recreation and civil defense adminis-
trators. Readied after extensive dis-
cussions with civil defense and recre-
ation people at all echelons of opera-
tion, the manual presents a compre-
hensive program of action which can
be adapted for any community.
Subjects covered include: Recrea-
tion for Morale and Health, Organiza-
tion for Emergency Recreation Serv-
ices, Operation of Emergency Recrea-
tion Services, Recreation for Civil De-
fense Volunteers and the National Rec-
reation Association’s Services for Civil
Defense.
0 THE RECREATION CURRICULUM of the

University of Illinois will introduce a
new course in the fall on “Recreational
Music.” Its broad purpose will be to
help the recreation worker undcrstand
and work with a balanced and effective
musical life in the community by ac-
quainting him with the facilities, agen-
cies, techniques and prospccts of this
field through available literature, denI-
onstration, research, field visits and the
acquisition of elementary skills. Pro-
fessor Max Kaplan, member of the fac-
ulty of the School of Music and the
Department of Sociology, will super-
vise.

o NEED FOR THE INCLUSION of all year-
round workers on the National Roster
of Recreation and Park Personnel has
been increased with receipt of notifica-
tion that the National Manpower Coun-
cil intends to call upon the NRA for
information on resources and require-
ments. (See page 225 of this issue for
registration procedure.)

0 SCHOOL TEACHERS are in favor of
bringing television into the classroom
as an educational tool, it was revealed
in a study conducted at the University
of Cincinnati last spring. The schol-
arship study, provided by a grant of
the Crosley Broadcasting Corporation,
was conducted over a period of months
during which 694 educators were in-
terviewed. A general summarization of
reaction to seventeen questions reveals
that ninety-two per cent feel that there
is a place in the educational program
for television entertainment designed
for school use. That television will be
more widely used than radio as an edu-
cational tool was the conclusion of
sixty per cent.

.BALTIMORE,S LONG-STANDING POLICY
of racial segregation in its public rec-
reation facilities—a policy that with-
stood legal tests up to the United States
Supreme Court—has been somewhat
curtailed by an order of the park
board.

The board order has ended segrega-
tion on the city’s four public golf
courses and on twenty of its park ten-
nis courts, baseball diamonds, play
grounds and other facilities. However,
segregation remains in effect in the
park swimming pools, the city recrea-
tion centers, the recreation bureau’s
amateur sports program and at Fort
Smallwood, a city beach which has a
“split” season.

RECREATION

 

OAK variety show stoppers. This club has a membership of over four hundred.

TILIZINC A WAR-CREATED FACILITY,
U a peace-time community recrea-
tional project was developed in Madi-
son, Wisconsin, and a building which
had been occupied by the USO for the
benefit of service personnel during
World War II was converted into a
community center.

After the war, an alert group of
young pe0ple, local citizens and civic
organizations, aided by the force of
newspaper publicity, convinced the city
authorities that this property, which
was already owned by the city, could
be used for the recreation activities of
both adults and youth. After much de-
bate and intensive work on their part,
the property was placed under the su-
pervision of the recreation department
of the board of education for the estab-
lishment of the Madison Community
Center. The large, two-story brick
structure, in the downtown district,

opened its doors on February 1, 1946.

SEPTEMBER 1951

Downtown office workers enjoy
picnic lunches in the center’s
snack room . . .

Robert W. Hurd

A Successful
COMMUNITY CENTER

The board of education immediately
appointed a full-time director and cre-
ated an over-all community center
council of fifteen members. This was
composed of a representative from each
of the five high school PTA associa-
tions, five members-at-large from the
city and a representative from each of
the following organizations: Commu-
nity Union, City Council, Recreation
Council, Youth Council and a high
school group called “The Loft.” Later,
after two age-group clubs had been or-
ganized, two more representatives were
added to the original council—one

from the Young Adult Club (YAC)
and one from the Older Adult Klub
(OAK). The main purpose of the
council is to advise and recommend to
the board of education any policies
which concern the welfare of the cen-
ter.

Now, after the completion of five
years of service, the center is operated

by a paid staff, composed of a .full-
time director, two assistants and five
part-time staff members, whose hours
conform to peak loads during the week.
Madison is fortunate in that university
students, enrolled in recreation courses,
are available for part-time leadership
on an hourly basis. The budget for
operation covers staff salaries and the
maintenance of the building—i.e. heat,
light, gas and janitor’s supplies. This
is approved by the board of education
and incorporated in its budget to the
city council.

Functioning within the center, the
three clubs mentioned above carry on
a long-range program of activities. The
Loft membership is made up of stu-
dents in the tenth, eleventh and twelfth
grades, or young people sixteen to
nineteen years of age—thus covering
those who are not in school. It has
an annual enrollment of more than two
thousand members. Club nights are

193

Friday and Saturday from seven until
eleven-fifteen p.m. The Young Adult
Club has an extended age range from
nineteen years to “as long as you feel
young,“ and averages a membership of
over nine hundred. The regular week-
- ly meeting time is on W'ednesday, from
seven to eleven-thirty p.m. During the
four years that these organizations
have been in existence, many Loft
members have graduated into the YAC.
The next age group is covered by the
Older Adult Klub, which is for mem-
bers who are thirty years of age or
older. By adopting the spelling of
“club” with the letter K and using the
initial letters of the words in the name
of the organization, the members very
appropriately designate themselves as
OAKS, signifying sturdy pioneers.
With a membership of more than four
hundred, the OAKS enjoy club nights
on Tuesday and Thursday evenings
from seven to eleven-fifteen.

During the past year, a new group
has been formed, composed of the aged
and retired, whose ages range from
sixty-five and up. This group, in its
“infancy,” is not a fully—organized
club, although it meets each Thursday
afternoon from one-thirty to three-
thirty p.m. According to administra-
tive plans, still another group is to be
formed as soon as expansion is feasi-
ble. Membership in this will be lim-

Inuit!" ‘5‘

 

ited to young married peeple who feel
that they are too old for the YACS and
yet not old enough to be OAKS.

Each club has a staff advisor and a
council of oliiccrs and committee chair-
men elected by the membership. The
councils meet regularly to formulate
plans and programs for their respective
groups. On club nights, many commit-
tces function to supply hosts, host-
esses, reporters, cashiers, cloakroom
checkers; to handle m e m b e r sh i p
records; to present programs and to
perform any other services which are
needed. Although the responsibilities of
committee members rest directly upon
their shoulders, activities always are
under the guidance of a competent,
paid staff advisor. This supervised
guidance by trained leaders assures
orderly management and promotes
success in the over-all purpose. It is
insurance against the failure that comes
to recreation centers which are left
to function under their own guidance
or are supervised by volunteers who
have not had training for recreation
leadership and are lacking in the
authority to enforce regulations.

The annual membership fee of one
dollar fifty cents is the same in each
club. This goes into the treasury to
defray expenses for office supplies, dec-
orations, orchestras and miscellaneous
items. Each check issued on club funds

Crafts instruction is a very excellent activity for that “wonder-what-to-do” feeling.

194

is signed by the club treasurer and the
director of the center. Each club rc-
ccivcs a regular monthly statement
showing receipts and disbursements.
Upon enrollment, a member is supplied
with a pocket card for admittance to
the building on club nights. In order
to prevent the passing of membership
cards to non-members, each card bears
an identification picture of the person
to whom it is issued. Visitors who pro-
vide satisfactory means of identifica-
tion and age status also are admitted.
There is no mixing of age groups in

the Loft and YAC.

Except for conforming to policies or
restrictions by the board of education,
the clubs are self-governing. They form
their own constitutions and make rules
and policies which govern their mem-
bers. The young people conform to
their own rules of no smoking within
the building by anyone under nineteen
years of age; no admission to anyone
who has been drinking intoxicating
liquor; and no bringing of liquor into
the building. On school nights, other
than on club nights, teen-agcrs cannot
be in the building after five-thirty p.m.
In the Opinion of the board, this time
should be spent at home, within the
needed influence of parents. At other
times, the young people may use the
center after school, on Saturdays and
school holidays from one to five-thirty
p.m. Members need not show their
pocket cards, except on club nights,
and anyone, other than a member, may
use the center during these hours. At
present, an average of eighteen thou-
sand young people and adults use the
center each month.

In addition to these main organiza-
tions, the schedule includes other ac-
tivities of interest to the community.
Selected according to the center’s facil-
ities and their useful, instructive and
beneficial values for that “wonder-
what-to-do” feeling, they include bridge
instruction, chess, photography, card
playing, square dancing, crafts, music,
dramaties and other activities.

Within each of the three main or-
ganizations there also are many other
activities of a club nature from which
to choose—such as hikes, picnics, roll-
er skating, masquerades, semi-formal
dances, chorus groups, instruction in
ballroom dancing, hobby shows, vari-

RECREATION

 

The Cribbage Club, one of many for local groups, shown during a regular session.

ety nights, potluck suppers, as well as
seasonal activities and leagues for ath-
letics, bowling, cribbage.

The main floor of the center is di-
vided into a lounge room—with radio,
juke box, piano, donated magazines
and daily newspapers placed upon spe-
cial library tables.

A convenient snack bar at one side
is busy from eleven thirty a.m. to
eleven pm. An average of two hundred
fifty office workers bring their lunches
at the noon hour and enjoy the facil-
ities. A few buy sandwiches while
others purchase coffee, milk, pop or
dessert. A large dance hall, with con-
venient rest rooms, is just off the
lounge. A stage and large double PA
set are on one side; a large revolving
crystal ball in the center of the hall
flashes myriads of colors from care-
fully-placed spotlights—~31] the work of
the YAC. Off the dance hall is a large
darkroom, with three enlargers. All
pictures of activities in the center are
made and developed by the photo club.

Came rooms on the second floor
contain such equipment as one billiard
and six pool tables, eight ping-pong ta-
bles, small tables along the side for
different games. Other features include
a radio room, library, mimeograph
room, checking facilities for one thou-
sand, three offices, photo room, crafts
room, theatre guild and rest rooms.

Bi-monthly bulletins are mailed to

SEPTEMBER 1951

all members of each club announcing
coming events, current doings and con-
taining personal and miscellaneous
items. Committees do all the work and
reporters hand in items to the chair-
man. Bulletin items are organized, put
on stencils, mimeographed, folded, ad-
dressed by the center addressograph
machine and mailed under a regular
postal permit. Each club has a special
name for its bulletin, such as “Oak
Leaves,” “Tel-A-Yac” and so on. At
the present time, the Young Adult
Club passes around a paper on club
night upon which each member writes
a line or two; then the copy is mailed
to members of the club who have left
for the armed forces. The older adults

 

tcr for those who need them. This club,
like the others, has its own officers and
a ncwspapcr called “The Mill.” On
every meeting night, the center echoes
the laughter of participants as they
play games, sing, have parties or listen
to a varicty program put on by some
organization. It is a heart-stirring
sight.

Your community, too, can have a
center that will provide individuals and
families with big dividends of happi-
ness. Citizens of all ages, working
earnestly together, will enjoy lasting
friendships, warm sociability and an
outlet for recreational skills. There is
need for proper activity in this day—
activity that will give a feeling of
adequacy and accomplishment, of use—
fulness and belonging which will pre-
serve personality and make for better
citizenship.

1950 Attendance Figures“
Total attendance: 199,007 youth and

adults.

Youth on Loft nights only: 41,449; other
hours, 21,392.

Young adult nights only: 15,019; other
hours, 6,971.

Older adult nights only: 10,287; other
hours, 4,933.

Men and women using facilities for meet-
ings and miscellaneous: 98,956.

Number of meetings at the center: 1,532.

Number of different organizations using
center: 184.

“The above figures offer an accurate
tabulation of those who use the facilities.
Staff members use clickers in counting
attendance—one for men and one for
women—and there is no guesswork or
peak load estimates. Naturally, there are
repeaters each day from the day before,
especially during noon hours and club
nights, but daily tabulation has no

repeaters.

 

Madison Community Center Membership

Teen-agers—16 to 18 years 

Young Adults—19 to 45 ..... ..
Oldsters—SS and over 

Total ................................. ..

.......................  2800

Each member pays dues of $1.50, which fees are used for
the respective age group activities.

 

make bandages and the youth collect
old clothes for Korea.

Last, but not least, Monday nights
throughout the year belong to the
“Happy Hours Club,” made up of
physically-handicapped persons of all
ages. Wheel chairs are kept at the cen-

Older Adult Klub Committees

In regard to the types of duties
assigned various club committees,
those drawn up for the Older Adult
Klub, while more specifically outlined

than most, are typical. They are as
follows:

195

Card Committee Chairman

0 Appoints own assistants each card
club night for thc arranging of cards,
score sheets and pencils, also chcckcrs.

0 Collecls cards and
after each session; assists vice-presi-
dent in tabulation of scores.

Dance Committee Chairman

0 Appoints own assistants; super-
vises dance hall, ventilation, tempo of
music and condition of the floor.

0 Plans special and holiday dances
—Halloween, hard times, and so forth
-—-—-and submits program in advance to
the council each month.

Food Committee Chairman

oAppoints own assistants for pot-
luck suppers, picnics and special
parties.

0 Sees that tables are arranged,
membership notified as to what to
bring; plans cvents ahead for each
month.

Sunshine Committee Chairman

0 Appoints own assistants.

0 Is responsible for cards for vari-
ous occasions, flowers for funerals;
notifies the publicity chairman of such
activities. '
Publicity Committee Chairman

0 Appoints own assistants; is re-
sponsible for “Oakleaves,” its folding,
addressing and mailing.

0 Obtains special news and an-
nouncements from various chairmen

scorc sheets

one month in advance, if possible.
Activities Committee Chairman

OAppoints own
special events such as hobby show,
old-time fiddlcrs contcst. variety night
program; has something doing often
to assure a varied program. Programs
should be prepared at least one month
in advance for the council.

assistants; plans

President

0 Responsible for success of club.

0 Has each committee chairman sub-
mit his plans for any special program.

0 Hires all orchestras and callers,
with the approval of the council.

0 Continually checks on all commit-
tee chairmen regarding finances and
confers with the treasurer on same.

0 Is responsible for all money and
prizes in conjunction with council
ruling and treasurer.

0 Arranges for picnic grounds and
equipment necessary for the other
special events.

0 Performs other duties according
to standard rules pertaining to that
oHice.

0 Appoints all standing committee
chairmen with approval of nominated
officers.

Vice-President

o Tabulates all scores for card club
prizes and gives results to president
for announcement.

OAssists chairmen in their plan-

ning, according to the regulations
govcrning the center.

o Is in charge of all grievances.

0 Knows duties of president in case
of his absence.

0Acts as a greeting committee to
and and
appoints a host committee to assist;
head of the membership at all times.

all strangers non-Incmbc rs

Treasurer
oIs responsible for all fees and a
financial report each month.

0 Knows the duties of president,
vice-president in case of their absence.

0 Assists the progress of the club
wherever possible and sees that all
bills are paid by check.

0 Knows financial status, how much
can be paid out for activities and so
forth.
Secretary

0 Takes
meeting.

oSees that each council
receives a monthly report.

oPrepares a write-up on the club
for the community center monthly re-
port by the first of each month.

0 Takes care of any necessary cor-
respondence.

OAssists, wherever possible, with
publicity to non-members and organi-
zations.

WBOB HURD serves as the di-
rector of recreation for Madison, Wis.

minutes of each council

member

 

azdmaamm

Before leaving my present position of Superintendent of Recreation in San Francisco, I
would like to eXpress to you my great appreciation for the assistance the National Recrea-
tion Association has given me during the past thirty-eight years of my service in the recrea-

tion field.

The National Recreation Congresses always have been a real inspiration to me; the liter-
ature sent out by the association on all topics of interest has been a means of keeping up-to-
date on recreation current events; visits from the national field staff have been most helpful
and encouraging; my own work as a member of the field staff was a wonderful training course
for me. For these, and for many other services, I thank the association.

Recreation as a profession is where it is today because of the leadership of the National

Recreation Association.

As a pioneer recreation worker myself, I have been closely associated with the work of the
NRA for thirty-eight years, and I recognize the great importance of its leadership in the na-

tional field.

Josephine D. Randall,

Superintendent of Recreation, San Francisco

 

196

RECREATION

ARTS and CRAFTS 7mm Sta/e

0MB} HUNDRED ARTS and crafts items made by recrea-
tion departments in the United States—ranging from
beautifully-wrought modern table centerpieces to a wicked-
looking primitive boomerang—“represented American skill
and originality at the fifth Japanese National Recreation
Congress in Wakayama Prefecture, Central Japan, August
three to six. Similarly, delegates to the National Recreation
Congress in Boston, October 1-5, 1951, will see an exhibit
of exciting Japanese craftsmanship.

The exchange—the first of its kind between the recrea-
tion centers of Japan and the United States—had been
suggested by Kenkichi Oshima, Secretary-General of the
National Recreation Association of Japan. In a letter to
our own National Recreation Association, he stated that
one of his congress plans was to include an exhibition of
American handcrafts; and he requested “about one hun-
drcd different pieces of such articles gathered from as wide
an area as possible in your country.”

The National Recreation Association then proceeded to
invite all public recreation departments and programs to
participate in a nationwide competition, stipulating that
any hand-made piece could be entered provided that it had
bcen made in the course of an arts and crafts program of
some municipal recreation department or of some cooper-
ating agency. (See January 1951 RECREATION—-Ed.) ch-
eral hundred items—tagged from Florida, Minnesota,
Massachusetts, Ohio, Michigan, Virginia, Tennessee, North
Carolina, Maryland, Kansas, Georgia, Louisiana, Illinois,
California, Pennsylvania and many other states——were re-
ceived at NRA headquarters for the final selection.

The young, the elderly, the in-betweens had participated,
their ages ranging from nine to ninety, and their work in-
cluding such ingenious articles as placemats made of grass,
cotton and linen, silver earrings and pins, pottery, enam-
eled ash trays, cotton toys, pine needle niats. It was diHicult
for the judges—a special committee of the board of di-
rectors of the National Recreation Association—t0 choose,
but the one hundred winning articles finally were selected
in May on the basis of originality, craftsmanship, design
and usefulness.

Among these was a set of drinking glasses, designed to
resemble beer mugs and made from old wine bottles. These
involved an interesting crafts process, whereby a string is
soaked in alcohol or kerosene, tied around the bottle at
the point where it is to be snapped off and then a match
is set to it. The bottle is snapped at the designated point
as arranged; the remaining portion is smoothed; a handle
of wood is attached—and there’s the beer mug!

An eighty-one-year-old woman from Kalamazoo, Michi-
gall, had fashioncd a stunning blue brooch, butterfly stylc,
from bits of an old nylon stocking, partially bleached.
Nylon changes colors in a bleach solution, so fibers were
plucked from the solution before the bleaching process was

SEPTEMBER 1951

complete and woven on fine coppcr wire.

Another contribution, from a boy of nine, was inspired
by a totem pole on exhibit at a local museum visited by
his arts and crafts group in Somerville, Massachusetts.
The youngster gathered a wooden dowel, newspaper, string,
paper towels, paste and poster paint and created a color-
ful miniature totem pole.

Many of the American projects were planned by the local
recreation departments so that they could be completed in
one crafts period. Shell jewelry was much in evidence as
well as articles made of wood, copper, aluminum and
plaster of Paris. In addition, there were block-printed cur-
tains and drapes, a dry-finger painting—made by using
the fingernail instead of a paintibrush, a large table mat
woven from sedge grass, a striking leather pocketbook, a
necktie rack, a leather lamp base, a miniature rocking
chair and water well, a ceramic dog, a stenciled towel and
apron, a surrealistic painting, a plastic night lamp with a
swimming fish motif and countless other intriguing and
original objects.

 

Four NRA officials who acted as judges. L. to r., Thomas
Rivers, Mrs. Jameson, Miss Susan Lee, Joseph Prendergast.

During the entire period of creating these items and
readying them for the exchange with Japan, participants
were encouraged by the thought that here was a further
opportunity to build good will among nations. Japan has
been particularly enthusiastic about this cooperative ven-
ture, maintaining that recreation plays an important part
in the rehabilitation of that country, helping to teach the
fundamentals of democracy.

As a matter of fact, the National Recreation Association
of Japan is patterned after that of the National Recreation
Association of this country. Japan sent a large delegation
to the first International Recreation Congress held in
America and thus became interested in the recreation move-
lnent. They continue to look to the NRA for advice.

197

 

The only entrance is through instep of Old \Voman’s Shoc.
Just a correct height for children, grown-ups must stool).

 

Billie Goat Grul‘f’s castle is source of enjoyment to young-
sters. Plenty of large rocks are also available for climbing.

198

 
     

‘3. This is the story of the building of Chil-
5:333 dren’s Fairyland in Lakeside Park, Oakland,
( California . . . a fabulous little world all its
own in a glen of spreading oak trees, where fairy tales
and nursery rhyme stories have become real . . . the wish
of every child come true!

A beautifully wooded section, on the shore of Lake
Merritt in the heart of the city, was selected as an ideal
location. Only a few blocks from Oakland’s shopping and
business center, with transportation handy and ample park-
ing space available, Lakeside Park offered a natural set-
ting for the proposed “land of make believe.” The Oakland
Board of Park Directors, acting for the city, made the
land available, and the superintendent of parks secured
costs for the pr0posed project—seventeen fairy story units,
each scaled to child’s size and each in its individual setting.
The estimated cost was fifty thousand dollars!

With some apprehension, but great enthusiasm, the Lake
Merritt Breakfast Club, composed of some two hundred
local businessmen and merchants, undertook the sponsor-
ship of Children’s Fairyland. By public subscription, and
through the cooperation of various civic organizations, the
members of the club raised the fifty thousand dollars.

All deposits were made to a trust fund, which was estab-
lished to cover the purchase of labor and materials, and a
trust agreement was drawn up between the Lake Merritt
Breakfast Club and the Oakland Board of Park Directors.
Control and management of Fairyland, it was agreed, were
to be handled by the park department, and a nominal ad-
mission fee would be charged as a means of continued
maintenance of the project and for new construction. This
fee was later determined as nine cents for children and
fourteen cents—including two cents tax—for adults.

In November 1948, W. Russell Everritt, a talented local
artist, was commissioned to design and build scale models
for the various units of the project. As a result, Children's

AUTHOR is superintendent of parks, Oakland, California.

RECREATION

mam/we

Fairyland is now a reality—~a dream that has become one
of the most colorful spots in America, beneath the oaks
from which Oakland derived its namc. It was opened on
September 2, 1950 and, during the first five months, all
guesses as to possible attendance were topped with a grand
total of two hundred twenty thousand paid admissions.

Entrance to Children’s Fairyland is attained through a
four-and-a-half-foot door that leads through the instep of
“The Old Woman’s Shoe.” Of course the children march
through with heads held high for, after all, this is their
rcalm. Adults must stoop to enter and there is no other
cntrance. The entire shoe measures eleven feet high and
is five feet from the bend of the shoe to the tip of the toe;
it is rose-pink in color, with a shingled roof of delft blue,
bright pink and green. Inside, colorful flowers bloom in
profusion everywhere, giving the entire area a light and
fanciful appearance.

Nearby, Little Pig, of “The Three Little Pigs,” was
smart enough to build a house that would last—a little
brick house, only eight feet high, with white trim. The win-
dowbox, however, is pink, as is the little wooden fence
that surrounds it. Next to the brick house is the country
fair, where the three little pigs, very much alive, can be
patted and scratched behind the ears. Off to one side are
the wooden and straw houses, which, of course, have been
blown down by the Big Bad Wolf.

Popular with the children, too, is “Noah’s Ark,” which
is approached over an arched bridge with rope guard
rails. A sign reads “Welcome Elephants, Giraffes, etc.
Signed, Noah.”

Through the trees can be seen the special home that has
becn built for “Three Billie Goats Gruff,” with plenty of
large rocks on which the live goats can climb about. Thcir
castle is chocolate brown with a green tile, slanting roof
and an overhanging balcony of bright purple with a daring
pink trim for contrast. The bright, colorful bridge also is
there, the one which housed the Ugly Troll, in true keep-
ing with the fairy story.

SEPTEMBER 1951

William Penn Mott, Jr.

 

“Coosey Goosey Gander” is one of the loveliest sets in
Fairyland, for its bright colors are accentuated by the
aqua pool which surrounds the castle with its coned towers
of yellow, raspberry and deep purple. The moat surround-
ing the castle has become a wishing well because the chil-
(lren have made it so, throwing their coins into the water
while little eyes are held tightly shut to givc more import
to their wishes.

To reach “The Merry Millcr,” you cross thc mill-stream
to the mill-house with its turning paddle wheel. The mill
itself is about twelve feet high. A mother duck and her
ducklings live in the miller’s pond, where the youngsters
may watch and feed them. A Hagstone path that leads
around the pond is entered through one child-sized gate
and left through another.

“Peter Rabbit” and his family live in a replica of a
brown tree stump, dramatically trimmed in pink and blue,
with a fantastic roof covered with blue and yellow shingles.
Oftentimes the children stand around this set and sing
“Here Comes Peter Cottontail,” while the big rabbit is
content to sit munching a carrot and looking at them in
wonderment, with side glances at “Farmer McGregor’s”
vegetable garden enclosed by a fence nearby.

“Willie, the Blue Whale” is truly spectacular as he

 

“Children were hugging the iron-grill fence
about the Little Red Schoolhouse when I reached
it. They whispered and laughed and giggled and
speculated: Mary must be at class now and the
lamb is waiting for her; he’ll wait patiently for
Mary to appear because Mary always is good
to him. A small square-shouldered boy, with a

baseball mitt in his hand, began to recite:
‘What makes the Lamb love Mary 50?"

The eager children cry.
‘Oh, Mary loves the Lamb, you know,’
The Teacher did reply.

Besides baseball, he knew his nursery rhymes,
too, that boyI—Sven Skaar, Trip Teaser No. 111.”

199

takes his place in Fairyland, spouting at intervals and at-
tracting attention with his wide-opened mouth and twin-
kling eyes. He is sixteen feet long and the opening of his
mouth is five feet in diameter. Children enter the whale by
means of a steep ramp, at the bottom of which is a forty-
eight-inch plastic bubble——-an aquarium, alive with fish.

“Rub-a-Dub-Dub” is portrayed by three inanimate little
men floating in a tub, all in gay-colored garb. There also is
“Ding Dong Bell, Pussy’s in the Well”; and “Hickory
Dickory Dock” is so constructed that when two large white
mice run on the treadline, the clock strikes one.

The youngsters delight in Mouse Town. Inside a giant
make-believe rock is a little city of white mice living in a
glass-enclosed wall, where they may be watched as they
play endlessly on the slide and ferris wheel.

There also is a Little Red Schoolhouse, with Mary look-
ing out of the window while her lamb plays in the school-
yard. And close to the center of Fairyland is “Peter, Peter,
Pumpkin Eater,” a huge pumpkin which has been made
into headquarters for a supervised food concession. Chil-
dren may buy little sandwiches there, animal Cookies, miik
and candy bars, as well as post cards and small packages
of food to feed the animals in the pet ring beside the
pumpkin.

A colorful mural of nursery rhymes forms a background
to Fairyland. It is eight feet high and sixty feet long,
covered with clever paintings of “Pussy Cat, Pussy Cat,
Where Have You Been ?,” “Four and Twenty Blackbirds,”
“Cat’s Serenade,” “Hey Diddle Diddle, the Cat and the
Fiddle,” and “Barber, Barber, Shave a Pig”—while on top
of the mural wall sits “Humpty Dumpty” before he had
his great fall. The mural has another purpose, too— to
screen the rest rooms.

A special area for children’s birthday parties, the theme
designed around the story of the “Sugar Plum Tree”—

TREASURE HUNT

A treasure hunt is a good way to entertain large groups
of tots, teen-agers or adults, for an indoor or outdoor affair
for any season or holiday. Clues can be placed in deco-
rated spools (empty sewing cotton spools) or in decorated,
empty matchboxes, and a small treasure chest (purchased
in a novelty store) filled with candy money can be used
as the treasure. Each center should make its own clues,
depending upon its size and location. The treasure hunt
can lead the group to a games area as part of the program.

In such a hunt at one of the recreation parks in Balti-
more. held as part of a July Fourth program, forty-eight
spools were decorated-twelve each of blue, yellow, red
and green. Two hundred children were divided into four
teams, and a captain for each was appointed. Each wore
a symbol—hat, tag or something identifying them with his
color. The leader gave each captain spool number one of

200

 

Crowds move past collapsed straw and wooden houses of
Three Little Pigs to brick one too sturdy for Big Bad \Volf.

which revolves and is covered with real lollipops—is an-
other innovation. “Giant Joe Bean”———animated with guinea
pigs, a colorful British sentry box with a pair of squirrels
and a miniature circus wagon, complete with all the gaudy
ornamentations of a real circus wagon and housing the
“pet of the week”—all bring glee to young beholders.

As host and hostess of Children’s Fairyland, two gay
little midgets were chosen, Mr. and Mrs. Victor Wetter.
In their colorful Mother Goose and Little Bo Peep cos-
tumes, they never tire of conducting children through
Fairyland, telling and retelling the stories which the young-
sters already know so well.

One thing more—no adult may enter through the Old
Woman’s Shoe without a child, for Fairyland was created

for children. It is, indeed, the wish of every child come
true—a land of make believe.

J. Pearl Williams

his color. The captain read the first clue to his own group.
Spools may be located by the entire team, but may be

picked up by the captain only. Also, they must be picked
up consecutively. Rhymed clues, such as the following
are fun:

Skip where it’s green,

There’s rope to be seen.
A piece of rope was tied around a tree and a spool placed
near it.

Go and find a monkey face.

This will lead you to the place.
A spool was placed near a mirror.

MISS I. PEARL WILLIAMS is the supervisor of children’s
activities, Baltimore Bureau of Recreation, Maryland.

RECREATION

Dr. John W. Best

Do We Educate for Leisure

I I ow CAN THE SCHOOL help young
people and adults to develop

satisfying hobbies, interests and skills
for the more effective use of leisure
time?

The literature of professional edu-
cation has been prolific with high-
sounding statements of the objectives
of education for leisure time. But too
few of these objectives have ever been
translated into practice. An examina-
tion of many schools today would rc-
veal practices which violate sound
education for leisure. We have been
guilty of emphasizing education for
earning a living at the expense of
education for living. Where recrea-
tional activities have been introduced
into the school program, false goals
and misplaced emphasis often have
perverted real purposes. The excessive-
ly competitive athletic program of the
school has been roundly criticized, but
comparable abuses and lost opportuni-
ties abound in almost every area of
the curriculum.

Just how well has your school pro-
vided the type of educational ex-
perience that makes education for
leisure a reality? Perhaps a few
questions, with explanatory comments,
might serve as a checklist.

1. Does your school provide a well-
rounded program of physical educa-
tion that helps all young people to
develop game skills in such activities
as golf, volleyball, swimming, archery,
tennis, bowling and skating? Or does
it train a limited number of already
well-developed and well-coordinated
youth to win games and appear in
public spectacles? Are girls given

SEPTEMBER 1951

equal consideration? Do your activi-
ties develop the type of skills and
interests which youths and adults can
carry on individually and in small
groups after the school phase of their
education has been completed?

2. Is your school musical program
designed to encourage and give all
youngsters an opportunity to partici-
pate in playing an instrument, singing
and listening to music with discrimi-
nation? Or does it restrict these op-
portunities to those who are especially
talented or highly trained? In many
schools, the music program is over-
balanced in favor of the public spec-
tacle or contest, meriting the same
criticism so often hurled at the athletic
department. Do your music educators
recognize the students’ present level
of appreciation of rhythm and har-
mony in folk tunes and swing music
as a basis for cultivating interest in
more highly-developed music forms?
Or are these types of music deprecated
as worthless and vicious, thus failing
to capitalize on an elementary basis
for a more substantial musical taste?
The too “high brow” approach often
results in an ineffective musical edu-
cation which fails to lead to the fun
and enjoyment that music should pro-
vide for leisure hours.

3. Does your school program,
through class instruction and school
social activities, capitalize on the
poise-developing, healthy type of social
experiences which help the shy and
retiring child to “blossom out?” The
teaching of social and square dancing
can do much to help young people
achieve the necessary feeling of par-

 

tic ip at i o n and belongingness that
comes from active sharing in the social
life of the school. Although immensely
important during school days, these
activities may be continued as satisfy-
ing adult social activities.

4. Does your school art program
function on a broad basis and recog-
nize the place of the crafts—leather,
metal, plastics and wood? Too often,
skill in, and appreciation of, fine arts
are encouraged, while the work in
crafts is treated as a poor relative. This
“high brow” attitude often defeats the
true purpose of art education and
limits the art department in meeting
the real recreational hobby needs of
a large number of students.

5. Do your courses in English really
cultivate a love of good reading, con-
versation, observation and listening?
Frequently, excessively technical em-
phasis upon structure and the too-
detailed analysis of great works kill
interest to such an extent that students
cease to read serious works when
their formal education is completed.
Thus they fail to discover the great
resources and recreational satisfaction
in literature.

6. Do courses in the social studies
emphasize the recreational value of
travel to national shrines, the possi-
bilities of understanding history
through the collecting of stamps, an-
tiques and other objects with historical
associations, the thrill of sharing the
lives of great men through biogra-
phies, the place of folk music and
dancing in our cultural heritage, the
exciting role of political life and the
thrill of working with social service

201

- -— W_— --

n.__p—_—_—_-——-—l=-.-.——.-—..-—_

‘-

agencies for the betterment of society?
All of these activities have hobby and
recreational implications long after
school days have passed.

7. Do the natural scicnce courscs
provide usable information and an
awareness of thc exciting world of
nature—the world of bugs, insects,
plants and animals? Do these courses
make a hike in the woods a thrilling
adventure? Do courses in the physical
sciences capitalize on, and stimulate
interest 11],: photography, radio and
television, model building, collecting
rare minerals and studying the heavens
on a starry night?

8. Do the foreign language classes
utilize the recreational possibilities of
“pen pal” clubs and other correSpond-
ence with people in other parts of the
world? This interest not only will
provide an enjoyable recreation ac-
tivity for years to come, but also will
help international understanding.

9. Does your school provide a posi-
tive and realistic program of alcohol
and narcotic education that is effective
in discouraging the abuse of these
dangerous recreational devices? Too
often these problems are either ignored
or rendered ineffective by a moralistic

and “preachy” presentation.

10. Do your counselors encourage
students to choose a well-balanced pro-
gram of studies and musical, athletic,
dramatic and other club activities? Or
are the non-academic expcriences dep-
recated and considered of lesser value?
Are students penalized in academic
subjects for their participation in the
recreational phases of school life? Are
they disqualified from participating in
the extra-class program of the school
because they fail to meet pre-deter-
mined quantitative standards in the
academic classroom?

11. Does your school make maxi-
mum use of interest inventories, as-
sembly programs, bulletin boards, dis-
plays, hobby shows and demonstra-
tions to stimulate an interest in recre—
ational hobby pursuits?

12. Does your school offer any sort
of recreational training for the adults
in the community?

13. Does your school utilize its
recreational facilities during out-of-
school hours? Too many schools lock
up and stand idle after
over week ends and during vacation
periods, even though there is a crying
need for community recreational facili-

school,

SW 2W Zmdmcééé...

ties.

14. Has your school developed a
program of camping cxperiences as
part of the educational cxperience?
Better health habits, citizcnship, un-
derstanding of nature, as well as the
development of rccreational interests
and skills, are more easily developed
in the camp setting than in the class—
room.

15. Do the teachers in your school
have hobbies and recreational intercsts
of their own? Teachers cannot eflcc-
tively stimulate healthy recreational
interests unless they are the sort of
persons who have cultivatcd hobbies
and leisure-time interests.

16. Finally, does the educational
phiIOSOphy of your school recognize
the need of education for living as
well as education for earning a living?
If so, is the objective of helping each
student to learn how to have fun, enjoy
life and to relax from the stresses of
a complex social order implemented by
a program that really educates for
the best use of leisure?

AUTHOR is director 0/ student
teaching at Butler University, Indiana.

 

7H}; BULLETIN for the social recreation section of the
recreation training program, co-sponsored by the State
Plan Board and the Department of Commerce as a public
service institute in Pennsylvania, outlines leadership meth-
ods as follows:

The role of the leader is to:

1. Assume the attitude that recreation is a medium with
great possibilities for bringing out the best in a person,
not just in the playing of games.

2. Help others to help themselves and to meet their needs.

3. Be a friendly, helpful guide instead of a “director.”

4. Be at ease, yet full of life, energy and enthusiasm.

5. Participate in the activity whenever possible.

6. DeveIOp a sense of humor; don’t become confused or
angered because of mistakes.

7. Be tactful in handling the shy, bashful and poor sports;
don’t bring about “loss of face” to anyone.

8. Provide opportunitics for all to participate and play
the role of leader.

9. Stress the fun of the game, not the winning.

10. Generalize about a mistake rather than pin it on one
person, causing embarrassment.
11. Emphasize the spirit of play and do not be over-

202

concerned about order.

12. Begin the activities when the first people arrive; don’t
wait until all appear.

13. Smile; don’t be a sourpuss.

The role of the leader in teaching a game is to:

1. Get the group quiet; don’t shout to do it.

2. Get the group into the correct formation before start-
ing explanations.

3. Know the rules thoroughly.

4. Make the directions brief; eXplain enthusiastically.

5. Choose carefully; don’t have too many participants in
relay games; takes too long to complete.

6. Have the group learn the activity by doing it.

7. Lead off the game yourself.

8. Be patient.

9. Move from one game to another quickly.
10. Move to another game if one holds no interest.
11. Use suspense in games.
12. Make the competitive games unique by matching girls
against boys, wives against husbands and so forth.
13. Interest the sidelines; be sure to give them something
to do, such as keeping score, clapping, singing.
14. Stop before interest wanes and fatigue sets in.

RECREATION

   

“Coming to the party tonight?”
was the question that buzzed about
the crowded rural schoolroom every
time the teacher was off guard that February Friday.
Gay scarfs worn on the heads of the girls gave prom-
ise of curls for the party. Shy, admiring glances of
the teen-age boys, accented with a wink, flashed the
question: “Will you be my partner tonight?”

At recess, base and even dodge ball momentarily
were forgotten as the excited children gathered in

School Days

-Does Fun Pay?

groups. From the huddles could be heard such
questions as: “Upon which committee will you

serve? What are you going to wear?
Do you think that Pat and Dora will
teach us some of the new dances they
learned at the recreation school?” This
went on until the school bell called
them back to books.

“Play Night” was a happy time for
the children. After a few feeble at-
tempts at formal lessons, their teacher
knew that any purposeful work that
day must follow their interests. An
outburst of applause greeted her sug-
gestion, “Let’s talk about the party!”
The informal discussion was guided
to such subjects as party etiquette,
history of St. Valentine’s Day, courtesy
and cooperation in play.

The arrival of the school bus abrupt-
ly ended the discussion. Only the
decoration committee remained. Soon
gay red paper hearts and vases of
white flowers gave the room a festive
appearance. Left-over red Christmas
candles added color. The children
pushed the desks aside and, with a few
whisks of the broom, finished their
job.

Now the room was quiet again and

Author, a school teacher of Burusvillc,
Alabama, first realized the value of good
recreation leadership after attending one
of the NRA recreation leadership courses.

SEPTEMBER 1951

the teacher paused to rest and ponder
a little before going home. She
thought: “Why do I let myself in for
all this extra work?” Her only answer
for a tired self was: “It makes the
children so happy.”

Margaret E. Mulac in the foreword
of her book, The Game Book, main-
tains that “Recreation is as much a
part of living as eating. Furthermore,
when we stop playing, our minds be-
come starved and something vital in
us dies. In recreation we find a means
of self-eXpression so often times denied
us in our jobs. Through creative forms
of play, we rebuild what the tensions,
disappointments and rush of normal
living have torn down.”

This teacher had concrete evidence
that playing together helps people to
understand each other, to be more
tolerant, more cooperative and to be
appreciative. Had she _not seen the
weak PTA of the three-teacher school
take on new life? “Pot Luck” suppers
had transformed it into an enthusiastic
working group of people, fifty men
and women. Dominoes, folk dancing
and group singing were included in the
added social hour and now the people
did not want to go home.

How proud she and her two assist-

 

Mrs. Ellen P. Taylor

ants were of the basketball court,
swings and see-saws built by the male
PTA members! This work was a real
manifestation of their new belief in
the mental and physical benefits of
play. Her thoughts raced on as she
rested there in the stillness of that
quiet room where she had labored so
long. She remembered how “Play
Night” programs at the school had
overcome a long standing community
prejudice against dancing. Crowds who
came to the affairs overflowed into the
schoolyard. She recalled that people
from other communities had come to
observe and to get information on this
recreation program. Her 1938 Chevro-
let had carried these three teachers
many miles to demonstrate the fun of
folk dancing. The two National Rec-
reation Schools which they had attend-
ed in 1935 and 1937 had sold them on
the ease and the fun of directing play.

Howard Braucher, former president
of the National Recreation Association,
stated: “Recreation must be caught;
it can’t be taught.” Of this fact she
was fully convinced now, for many
groups in the county were meeting
regularly to play together. The labors
of these teachers in behalf of healthful

recreation had not been in vain.

203

“Just what does it take to be a
leader?” she thought as she began to
take stock. Her answer came: “A love
of rhythm and music, a real desire to
learn to play, a lot of patience and a
good sense of humor. Not even a
piano or record player is necessary.
Both can be quite useful, but the
shuffle of feet, the clapping of hands
and singing can be substituted.”

The sudden consciousness of the red
heart decorations about her brought
her reverie to an end. She hurried
home, for the magic hour was near
at hand. Upon her return, she found

Club, who had responded to a rhymcd
invitation written 011 a valentine:
You come to our party
It’s going to be fine
You can play funny games
Dance with your valentinc
Schoolhouse 7 P. M.
As soon as the doors were opened,
in flocked a troupe of well-dressed
youngsters. Two student leaders had
planned a well-balanced program for
the evening including a mixer, folk
dancing, quiet games, a guessing con-
test and a mind-reading stunt. When the
fun was at its highest pitch, the games
were concluded and the children were

seated for refreshments—(l rinks, heart-
shaped cookies, sandwiches and candy
donated by the mothers.

The teacher had to whisper to a
small boy to serve the red candy hearts
to the guests first. The temptation to
help himself apparently was stronger
than his will to observe all those
rules of good etiquette upon which he
had agreed during the afternoon dis-
cussion.

The children loved to play and left
reluctantly after three hours of fun.
The boy with the pocket full of red
hearts called back, “When will we have

sixty excited children, from the 4-H

Such scenes are
duplicated on
13 playgrounds.

 

E ARLY IN OCTOBER, the annual Halloween problem
loomed on the horizon for the recreation stat}. Al—
ready the playgrounds were buzzing with the children’s
spooky and mischievous schemes. The recreation depart-
ment was gr0ping for some device to keep the youngsters
off the streets and out of trouble. But what to do?

In the past, it had been our custom to have the children
gather at the thirteen playgrounds, where supervised pro-
grams included huge bonfires, costume parades, apple
bobbing and other appropriate activities. As soon as the
playground bonfires were extinguished, however, the chil-
dren would start out “on their own”—and then trouble.

But, this time, someone had a really brilliant inspiration
-—a radio give-away program. Much discussion and plan-
ning finally developed a well-organized “Goblin Give-Away
Show” over Station WMC. Every child who attended a
playground Halloween party registered, giving name, age
and telephone number. At eight-thirty on the eventful eve-
ning, all of these slips were collected and taken to the

radio station.

EUNICE WARE is the supervisor of dancing and dramatics
in the Memphis, Tennessee, Department of Recreation.

204

a Play Night again?”

Eunice Ware

The Goblins Phone on Halloween

The children were told that no prizes could be won
unless they were at home to receive the calls. Some were so
eager to get home that they left their own playground party
even before the refreshments! All personal telephone con-
versations in local homes were practically at a standstill
during this magic time. Susie or Jimmy would say, “Dad,
please don’t use that phone. The goblins are going to call.”

The merchants of Memphis were most cooperative in
donating all of the prizes—including bicycles, radios, tri-
cycles, footballs, shoe skates, dolls, clothing and so on.

Owing to the large number of prizes, the radio program
lasted a little longer than expected and some youngsters
who had to be awakened were almost too sleepy to talk.
But the “Goblin Give-Away Show” went down in history
as a great success and the Memphis Recreation Depart-
ment’s master stroke of all times. It gave the greatest
amount of pleasure and anticipation to an untold number
of children and, we hope, saved some parents from getting
additional gray hairs on this particular night.

It would be hard to evaluate the program in terms of
safety, education and healthful recreation. The comments
from the safety squad, police and press all were most
laudatory. “I definitely think that this ought to become an
annual event,” said John Vescy, park commission chair-
man. “The prospect should be studied thoroughly, thcn en-
larged to become a city-wide event with churches, civic
clubs and everyone else participating. It can be a wonder-
ful thing for the city.”

Thus, this year, the department plans to make this pro-
gram “bigger and better,” profiting from its experience.

RECREATION

LOS ANGELES COUNTY in California

offers an outstanding example of a
recreation program conducted by a
county parks and recreation depart-
ment in cooperation with the school
authorities. In view of the tremendous
growth in population of the county
during the postwar years and the
corresponding increase in demand for
school facilities, many school districts
in the county purchased new sites and
erected new schools. The demands for
supervised leisure-time activities also
rose appreciably and since, in many
communities, the only available recre-
ation facilities were on school proper-
ty, it was natural that the school
should become the center of the
recreation programs that were estab-

lished.

Leadership

Responsibility for providing the
leadership used in the cooperative
program rests primarily with the
County Department of Parks and Rec-
reation. Based upon requests from the
school districts, a budget of $161,768
was allocated to the department by
the county supervisors to finance this
program for the current fiscal year.
A total of 262 recreation leaders were
assigned by the department to conduct
activities at 157 schools in sixty-five
school districts. Year-round, after-
sehool activities are presented on sixty-
six school playgrounds within the un-
incorporated communities. The school
districts, in turn, provide the necessary
equipment, supplies and facilities re-
quired for the playground program.

Supplementing the county staff, a

"‘ From a report issued by the County
Department of Parks and Recreation and
the County School District, Summer 1950.

SEPTEMBER 1951

A Cooperative Countywide

Recreation Program

playground or recreation director was
hired by the majority of the school
districts to coordinate the playground
programs; in many cases, the muni-
cipal department in incorporated cities
assists with personnel to make the pro-
gram a three-way venture. In school
districts which include several schools
within their boundaries, additional
personnel are employed or the salaries
of the personnel assigned by the De-
partment of Parks and Recreation are
supplemented. In this way, a more
direct responsibility is placed upon the
summer personnel to safeguard the
property of the school and to develop
a more complete community recrea-
tion program. Such matters as person-
nel time and reports, equipment, sup-
plies, use and care of facilities and
programs become their direct respon-
sibilities.

On each of the school playgrounds,
recurrent county personnel from cer-
tified civil service lists have been as-
signed to conduct the summer and/or
year-round programs. Additional as-
sistants are employed in some com-
munities to help with special activities,
such as crafts, storytelling, movies,
puppetry and swimming. Skilled vol-
unteers assist with children’s activities
on many of the playgrounds in order
to broaden the daily program.

Program

During the summer, the school play-
grounds are open six to eight hours
a day, Monday through Friday and,
in many instances, on Saturday and
Sunday afternoons. Where floodlights
and other night facilities have been
available, evening programs have been
conducted. The program varies accord-

ing to the needs of each community,
but a general over-all pattern is
divided into five classifications as fol-
lows:

1. Classes in crafts, music, puppetry,
dramatics, storytelling, swimming and
dancing.

2. Supervised play and tournaments
in ping-pong, checkers, chess, marbles,
jacks, tetherball, shuffleboard, softball,
caroms, ring toss, table games and
quiet games.

3. Special programs, usually on a
district-wide basis, including carnivals,
talent shows, picnics, softball finals,
sports skills tournaments, pet shows,
crafts exhibits, doll and hobby shows.

4. Family night programs, includ-
ing watermelon feeds, potluck dinners,
social games, movies, softball games,
square dancing and community fun
nights.

5. Teen-age activities in crafts,
square dancing, girls’ softball, teen-
age canteens, fathers’ and sons’ games
and banquets, mothers’ and daughters’
softball games and luncheons.

Facilities

Almost every school made at'least
one room available for indoor activi-
ties, with several rooms used at some
schools. The cooperation of both school
and municipal officials in furnishing
indoor and outdoor facilities has been
excellent. Among the types used, in
addition to school buildings, are city
parks, auditoriums, swimming pools,
band shells and youth centers. Increas-
ingly, school grounds are being lighted
and, therefore, available for night use.
Buses provided by many districts
make possible a broader program by
the inclusion of such activities as

205

swimming, picnicking, interschool pro-
grams and contests, club meetings, ex-
cursions and field days. In some dis-
tricts, buses are used to transport
children to and from the playground
daily, thus greatly enhancing the use-
fulness of the program.

According to a bulletin issued by
the County Department of Parks and
Recreation, the success and growth
of the cooperative program have
stemmed from a variety of reasons,
some of which are:

1. A genuine desire on the part of

the Ollicials 0f the public agencies in-
volved to cooperate in providing ade-
quate recreation activities while giving
due respect to one another’s problems.

2. The recognition of the need for
instructive and constructive leisurc-
time activities on a community-wide
basis.

3. The desire to utilize all of the
existing facilities in order to serve
better the people through adequatc,
well-coordinated community recreation
programs.

4. The ability of the local school

districts and the city governments to
combine resources and utilize the facil-
ities of each in order to offer a broader
program with which to satisfy the
recreation needs of the community.
Experience, recognition of the in-
dividual’s recreational needs and the
desire to scrve the people have resulted
in an increase in the variety and type
of recreation opportunities presented
in the county-school cooperative play-
ground program in Los Angeles.

 

Florence Birkhead

Ground Billiards

HE ONLY GROUND BILLIARDS group known to be in exist-

ence in the USA today is the Mosswood Men’s Club
in Oakland, California, operated by the Oakland Recrea-
tion Department. An import from France after World War
I, the game—as the name implies—closely resembles table
billiards. It is played on a thirty-by-sixty—foot clay court,
with six-inch high wooden pads forming a wall around it.

The game is for foursomes, and twenty-one points make
a game. A white key ball, four red and four blue balls
are used. The white ball is rolled from the upper end of
the court and the colored competing balls are lagged at
the key ball.

This unusual game is the favorite pastime of some forty
men whose average age is sixty-five. The senior member
of the club is eighty—four and takes his turn at brushing
off the court before a game. Boredom isn’t a problem
among these oldsters who resort to chess, five hundred,
pinochle, checkers and canasta when waiting their turn
on the court.

Twenty-two years ago, one of the present members, who
keeps his age quiet but admits to having his third set of
molars, put up a sign, MOSSWOOD MEN’S CLUB, on a
small hut adjoining the Mosswood Playground. The sign
is still there and this member has rarely missed a day at
the court since his retirement from business years ago.

A majority of the men are retired and many bring their
lunches to the club. “Haven’t missed a day this month!” is
the proud exclamation of many in the group. No dues, no
charges, no rules is their creed. “Come once—and you are
up early the next day for your return.”

206

 

Three old-timers measure shots; boredom isn’t their problem.

A small gate leads to the court and hut, which are com-
pletely secluded from the eyes of the passerby by large
shrubs and trees. Many Oaklanders are unaware of its ex-
istence. The sign over the club is a quiet reminder that
women are not permitted or wanted there.

The game is recreational for all—therapeutic for many.
Ask Tom Laney, whose doctor told him many years ago to
be quiet and rest. Tom oined the group—his doctor hasn’t
seen him now for five years.

Adventure and excitement have filled the lives of these
men and their storytelling and reminiscences will hold any
listener. Gold digging days, the city’s old buildings and
saloons, the belles of another day are among the tales and
conversational topics of this lively group.

The Oakland Recreation Department has scoutcd thc
major sporting goods companies in the country for the
original balls used in ground billiards but have had no
success. The substitute balls have taken on odd shapes from
years of usage. Every now and then a few new wooden
balls replace lost or badly shaped ones but, as the oldsters

say, it “sure upsets our game to use new ones!”

Author FLORENCE BIRKIIEAD effectively handles public-
ity for the Oakland, California, Recreation Department.

RECREATION

Hal (M6611,
in Olde Alexandria

 WHERE ARE 9,465 CHILDREN in Alex-
andria, Virginia, between thc ages
of six and sixteen ycars— and all

celebrate Halloween.

For at least two hundred of the two
hundred one years since the historic
town of Alexandria was founded, good
people in the community have been
trying to channel these youngsters
away from soaped-up windows, broken
gates and wrecked public shrines on
Halloween Eve. In 1950 they did it.

Together, the Alexandria Recreation
Department, a local civic-minded skat-
ing rink manager, the Alexandria
Optimist Club, Community Chest
youth agencies, schools and churches
came up with six Halloween parties
that drew 4,040 youngsters off the
streets.

The partying started at three-thirty
p. m. when the Alexandria Roller
Arena opened its doors for two hours
to youngsters fourteen years of age
and under for a costume skating party.
Free refreshments, free hats, free
skates and free admission were offered,
and the skating rink and recreation
department staff were on hand to keep
order. A total of thirteen hundred
youngsters turned out for the party.

By seven p. m., when
vandalism usually moves 0
into high gear, the doors
of the city armory and
two boys’ clubhouses were
thrown wide to two thou- J
sand two-hundred “be-
witched” boys and girls ready for a
night of howling. The Alexandria
Optimist Club had arranged free re-
freshments and a night of games for
every youngster in town who wanted
to celebrate.

Children came in costumes, and
ate hot dogs, doughnuts, soda pop,
bobbed for apples, won prizes and
played games until pure exhaustion
drove them home to bed. Members

SEPTEMBER 1951

These adult scarecrows won

prizes at costume ball.

of the Optimist Club joined the
parties to have as much fun as did
the youngsters. The parties were held
in three central locations, handy to
adjoining residential areas. Mean-
while, at the community recreation
center, five hundred high
school students, between the ages of
fifteen and eighteen, were having a
masquerade party and dance, from
eight to ten-thirty p. m.

More mature-minded teen-agers,
who were not at Optimist parties,
had their celebration at the Charles
Barrett Teen-Age Center during the
same hours. Approximately one hun-
dred were on hand for social and
square dancing and games. Adults also
were taken care of in scores of private

and club parties and by
an adult costume ball at
the community recreation

senior

center.

To gather public sup-
port for the away-from-
vandalism drive, the rec-

reation department supervised a public-
ity program and the Optimist Club
printed over five thousand billfold-
sized cards listing the Halloween cele-
brations.

The police department, following its
yearly custom of putting every man on
the force into uniform and on the
streets to keep order, was cheering.

Said Police Chief Edgar Sims, “Van-

dalism was at a minimum.” Fire Chief

 

:9
“not one

Bernard Padgett reported

false alarm.”

City recreation' department director;
Eugene Barnwell, was equally pleased.
“The success of this cooperativecproi,
gram is heartening. Members of”eacft!;¢
agency and of the participating civics
clubs are eager to continue joint p‘ro-
motions which will capture the imagi-
nation and benefit the participaqfs.”

Plans of the recreation departn'ient
for Halloween, 1951, are even more
extensive. They include several parades
in different sections of town, with I
children participating in costumes,
climaxed by a huge bonfire outside of l
the city’s largest stadium. ‘Aftekrmtlie
burning of the goblins and’ff'ibad I
demons, a gala show will begin inside I
the stadium. On the programsyvillnwbe
a parade of floats and costumed prank-
sters. ,

The Optimist Club again will fur-
nish hot dogs and drinks free. It is
hoped that Alexandria will be able to l
have a window-decorating contest and 1
another free skating party. The nearby 1
tennis courts at the stadium will be
lighted for dancing for teen-agers and j
adults after the stadium show. Movie
thrillers will be shown at several 1
centers from nine to ten-thirty p. m.
Halloween activities and lots of fun I
should make everyone ready to wel-

come Mr. Sandman. 

Submitted by Alexandria, Virginia, (
Recreation Department.

207 I

Song
Leaders
in Conege

 

A pharmacy major lines up his fra-
ternity brothers for a quick run-through of
“Stairway to the Stars.”

AUTHOR ROBERT B. WALLS serves as director of the
Department of Music, Oregon State College, Cornwallis.

208

The prosaic academic listing in the Oregon
State College catalog reads “Choral Conducting,
two credits, Tuesday and Thursday, one o’clock.”
That the course is anything but bookish and stullily
academic, however, is rapidly made apparent to the
aspiring chorus directors who enroll, and any who fatuously
sign up in expectation of making an “easy credit” soon
head for the nearest door and a change of schedule.
“One o’clock Tuesday and Thursday,” indeed! It’s as
likely to be midnight Sunday when the instructor meets
his students; but let’s start at the beginning of the story
of choral conducting activities at OSC.

First of all, Oregon State College is a “singing campus.”
Within the department of music We have: 1) a men’s
glee club, averaging (in pre-draft days) eighty memhers;
2) a women’s glee club of one hundred twenty; and
3) a mixed choir of fifty selected voices. These choruses
meet regularly at specified times for rehearsal under the
direction of the writer and Professor Donald Sites. In
addition to appearing frequently before clubs, conventions
and other group meetings, they present several concerts
a year, featuring everything from the great masterpieces
of choral literature to novelty and humorous songs and an
“pop” tune. There also are a symphony
orchestra, three bands—including a smartly-dressed

occasional

marching band, practical instruction in voice, piano, or-
gan and the instruments of the band and orchestra and
other music courses offered by a staff of eight teachers.

All this is in a college which is designated as a
“technical school” by the Oregon state system of higher
education—a college where stress is placed upon the
sciences, with no provision for major emphasis upon
liberal arts—although music is recognized by the admin-
istration as having a vital contribution to make to the
complete education of the student. Every effort is made
to offer opportunities in music study short of going all
out on a major curriculum. Oregon State College students
look upon music as medicine for tired bodies and minds,
as a morale builder, as their choice of the finest type of
recreation. Music is an outlet, a means for expression, and
devoted members of the concert organizations guard
jealously their rights and privileges of helonging. The
engineers, scientists, secretaries, pharmacists, business
executives and other “technicians” who take a music
course do so because they want it—not because it is re-
quired of them.

In addition to the courses and organizations set up
within the department of music, virtually every fraternity,
sorority and dormitory group on the campus of five
thousand students has its own student-led “house chorus,”
whose regular activities include, in addition to the annual

RECREATION

Robert B. Walls

fnterfraternity “sing,” sercnading the campus at any, and
all, favorable times, providing music—spirited or senti-
mental as the occasion demands—for mealtimes, fire-
sides, picnics, Mother’s and Dad’s Days, Christmas
caroling parties and anything else some inspired collegian
might dream up. And this is where the course in choral
conducting fits into our story.

Established two years ago and placed under the direction
of Professor Sites, the course originally was intended
primarily for the training of those students expecting to
teach in the high schools who want to have some prepara-
tion in music along with their subjects of major teaching
interest. However, before the opening days of the fall
term, a letter was sent from the ofhce of the director of
the department to every “house” song leader, stressing
the practical avocational values of choral conducting and
inviting each to join the class if he could fit it into his
already crowded schedule. The response was excellent, a
total of thirty aspiring Fred Warings showing up. At the
first meeting of the class, Mr. Sitcs announced the require-
ment that each student have his own chorus, to conduct
somewhere on the campus or in the city, and that those
who had none “ready-made” for them in their living
group go forth and promote the organization of such an
ensemble. That policy is paying off handsomely in the
number and quality of choruses functioning on the campus
and in the city. The student conductors schedule and plan
their own rehearsals and select their own choral literature,
bringing their problems before the class for discussion
and clarification during regular meetings. Such matters
as elementary conducting technique, voice testing, rehearsal
procedure, the personal attributes of a good conductor,
production of good tone quality, breathing to sing, diction,
intonation, posture, blend, balance, phrasing, attacks and
releases, interpretation and expression are considered in
class. Another project is the arranging of a favorite song
———usually a fraternity or sorority song—for chorus.

Each conductor is required to present his chorus at
least twice during the twelve-weeks’ term for the inspection
of Professor Sites, who offers such on-the-spot assistance
as he feels is necessary and desirable. These “auditions”
invariably fill several evenings for the instructor, as he
must go from one church or fraternity house to another
to hear the choirs at their regular rehearsals. These, in
the case of the campus groups, are usually any time from
ten p. m. on toward the wee hours of the morning, when
the leader can be sure of having every member of his gang
on hand. Within a day or two following an audition, the
student is called in for a private conference, and Professor
Sites endeavors to throw light upon every facet of his
conducting.

Further opportunities for directing under the eye of an

SEPTEMBER 1951

The girls go serenading in the rain of Oregon mid-winter
evening, led by School of Business and Technology Senior.,

instructor are given those embryo conductors who also
are members of one of the college choruses as, indecd,
most are. They serve as section leaders whose duties
include taking roles, drilling their own section (soprano,
alto, tenor or bass) on passages difficult to sing and
handling rehearsals of the full chorus. The more accom-
plished among the class may also be assigned to the
conducting of a song or two in a public concert given
by the choir or glee club of which he is a part.

As in all school classes, there comes the inevitable day
of reckoning, when a grade must be given and, in the
choral conducting class, the final grade is based upon:

1. The extent to which a student has developed general
conducting techniques.

2. The student’s success in making a choral arrangement
of a piece of music and the performance of that arrange-
ment by his chorus.

3. The spirit and quality of the singing within the
chorus which the student has organized and developed as
his project.

4. Participation in class discussions and demonstrations.

5. A comprehensive, written final examination.

The introductory first term of work is followed by a
second course, which is more specialized in its content
and is meant to furnish the more able conductors with
materials and methods of Operation not covered in the first
twelve weeks. In addition to continued active choral
directing, emphasis is placed upon a survey of suitable
music published for amateur choirs, planning and
organizing of “community sing” programs and program
building for church and civic choirs.

With the exception of the aspiring high school teachers
in the class, not one of the members expects to use this
specialized skill and training in a professional capacity.
Many will use their new-found knowledge to enrich their
own lives and the lives of their friends through recrea-
tional singing in communities where they live. Here are
next year’s leaders of the church choirs, civic choruses,
service club songsters and the glee clubs in the communi-
ties where they find their life’s work.

Truly can it be said that these Oregon State College
students of choral conducting “learn to do by doing.”

209

 

'_.__-—n— -u_-.-_-.

 

Ilobbies

IUSEPPE ARCURI, the cobbler,
G pegged a dainty slipper heel in his
tiny shop at 241 East Fifty-fourth
Street in New York City. Late after-
noon sun struggled through the living
jungle in the shop window and traced
lovely leaf patterns on the cobbler’s
white thatch, on his white shirt and
on his blue work apron.

When all the tiny pegs were used in
the slipper, he told, in broken English,
how he had come to create the window
jungle and the lesser jungles in pots
and faded old tubs on the worn shop
floor. He said that it was hunger for
green things—for the greenery he had
known in childhood in Cianciana near
Palermo, where he was born sixty-
seven years ago.

Two tubs and eight old flowerpots
hold the soil that nurtures Giuseppe
Arcuri’s miniature window groves. He
bought the soil from a First Avenue
florist and has enriched it through the
years with bits of leather scrap. He
says that leather scrap is good humus.

The shop window is barely five feet
wide and less than eight feet high. The
whole shop is barely ten feet by ten,
except for three feet separated from
the front by a lively magenta curtain.
The shop itself huddles between a
tenement and another red-brick dwell-
ing.

The jungle includes orange trees, a
fig tree, a grape vine, avocado trees,
grapefruit trees, a lemon tree, an
almond bush, clusters of Spanish pea-
nuts, two tangerine trees, two varieties
of chestnut trees and a date palm.
All have grown from fruits and nuts

210

A Jungle from Table Seeds-

that Giuseppe and Jacquelina, his
spouse, have eaten at their own tablc.

Giuseppe is a little man, barely over
five feet in height. Jacquelina is rather
on the large side. He wears modest
white and his work apron. She seems
to favor ripe reds and lush greens.
They work together to keep the jungle
thriving. Customers ask so many
questions about the plants that the pair
have laboriously worked up little signs
to identify the various trees in their
grove.

The grapefruit tree in the window
is seven years old and stands four feet
high. The orange tree beside it is two
and one-half years old and barely three
feet high. The tangerine and lemon
trees are five years old; the chestnuts,
two years old; the avocados, in various
stages from the rooting stagc in a
glass jar to almost four feet in height
in the tiny window. Toy iron deer
mince under the trees.

Giuseppe eXplains: “It is this way;
I eat a grapefruit and I put the seeds
aside. The poor seeds thin and wither.
The better seeds stay fat and it is thc
fat ones I choose for the planting. It
is so with date seeds that grow thc
palms, with the grape seed and with
all the seeds from the things we eat.”

And there arc evils in Giuseppc
Arcuri’s hand-made window Edcu. The
little mice, as he gently calls them,
come when he closes the shop at ten
o’clock each night. And the second
evil is the gasoline-and-soot-laden air
that would choke the leaves to death.

Jacquelina tends to this evil. Each day,
with a cloth held briefly under the

 

Meyer Berger

NYC cobbler working against background
of fruit trees raised in spare moments.

water tap, she wipes each separate
leaf tenderly and removcs the sooty
crust that would—as she puts it—
“make the pretty green leaves to die.”

There is a second grovc that thc
Arcuri’s tend—eight ailanthus trccs
which thrive in incredibly poor and
skimpy soil on the Fifty-fourth Strcct
flagstones. One is ten feet tall and
towers over the tiny shop’s roof. Thc
others, only a few inches high, are
directly under the shop window, in
a little row.

Giuseppe says: “In May, sidewalk
trees tell me when spring has truly
come. In Junc, July and August their
leaves are my only awning. They cool
me and Jacquelina. In the fall they
glow and die, and we know from
them that summer is cnded. The trees
arc our pleasure. They are a gift from

God.”

Reprinted through the courtesy of Thc

New York Times.

RECREATION

inally was intended to be a service of the recrea-

tion department in connection with a loan service,
enabling the children who had opportunity to attend crafts
classes to share their opportunities with children who were
confined to their Rutland, Vermont, homes.

At the present time, it is being carried on by several
individuals and groups as a service project. One of our
Girl Scout groups is constructing eight complete kits for
the Crippled Children’s Home.

These are things we keep in mind when
assembling items for the kit:

1) They must be things a child can do
with a minimum of physical effort.

2) They must not require prolonged
concentration.

3) They must not be messy and spill-

able.
4) The child must be provided with a

purpose for using the materials.

5) Inexpensive materials must be uscd,
mostly scraps.

6) The techniques must be simple
enough to be understood without the
services of an instructor.

We CALL THIS BOX our Play-Abed Kit. The idea orig-

?) There must be an Opportunity for originality and
continuing interest.

8) Everything—even a pin or piece of thread that
may be found in any household—must be included in the
outfit. The mother of a sick child is a busy mother,
often a worried mother. It takes time to collect pins and
needles, thread, crayons and paste from about the house.

The container or trunk in which the individual boxes

are packed may be as elaborate as one wishes. We have
found wooden apple boxes easily obtainable and very
practical. We cover them with wallpaper, cloth or oilcloth.
The complete kit consists of:

1) A large box.

2) A basic kit holding simple tools, crayons, adhesives.

3) From twelve to twenty various-sized boxes, each
unit containing everything necessary for the construction
of some simple object (with the use of tools and supplies
in the basic kit).

4) A letter to the mother explaining the purpose of the
project and some simple hints about its efiicient use.

5) A letter of greeting to the child, telling him that
this will help him to make things if he always puts his
tools back in the same place.

6) A note with each unit, giving any written directions
needed and suggesting purposes, uses and further ex-
plorations in this particular interest.

We believe this to be a fine service project for any
group wishing to do something for children who are ill.
It can be used for the child who is in bed only a short

SEPTEMBER 1951

time by having fewer units; in fact, only one or two,
with the basic kit, make a very acceptable present.

The projects which we suggest are suitable for boys
and girls from five to twelve years of age. They are simple,
but each presents some element of surprise, some novel
use of material that will be challenging.

In the organization of this as a service project, you
mood to think through very carefully the following pro-
cedures and decide upon the best way for your own
particular group.

PLAY-ABED KITS

Viva Whitney

 

1) The collection and handling of the materials needed.
2) The construction of the actual boxes and samples.

Letter to the Mother of the Child
Dear Mother of the Stay-Abed Child:

Knowing how busy you are, we have tried to gather
together odds and ends of materials with which a child
who has to stay in bed likes to play.

The kit provides a place to keep the tools and materials
most often used and it may be hung upon a chair,
fastened to the headboard or to the springs under the
mattress. We know that there are many values to the
child in having the opportunity of caring for his own
tools. Therefore, we have packed each project separately
so that he may put it away himself.

We suggest that he not be given more than one box
a day and that, if he seems happy and interested working
upon some particular project, several days elapse before
he receives another box. 0n the other hand, it always is
wise to put one project away just before he reaches the
point of “being sick of it,” and then return to it at a
later date when it again will have the appeal of “something
new.” He should then be encouraged to find new ways
of using any skill he has acquired.

The sick child always needs to do something for others,
so this will give him an Opportunity to make “samples”
of things to send to a friend who is ill, to his schoolmates
or to some members of the family.

AUTHOR has been arts and crafts director, Rutland recre-
ation director; is now with Rutland Girl Scout Council.

 

211

Mw“_W——-—_——m— .— —— I -

   

Jacks—Six-pronged metal pieces and a
rubber ball are used by these youngsters
in variation of ancient “Astragals.”

Guess Which Hand—Thc origins of this game presum-
ably go back to prehistoric age, imitating native ritc.

 

t ' vcv‘rriw" I“ ~237- -’-—." .. . 40:11,.) '
Buck~Buck or Johnny.-on-the-Pony — Dc- Crack the \Vhip—Pcrhaps this gamc—so thoroughly enjoycd hcrc
scribed by Pctronius in thc first century. —or tug-of-war, is thc sport Babelais calls “Pull Yet a Littlc.’1

212 RECREATION u

'ames -- TODAY

WHEN PHOTOGRAPHER ARTHUR LEIPZIG recently saw
a picture of Pieter Brueghel the Elder’s famous
painting, “Children’s Games,” he was struck by the resemblance
of games of nearly four hundred years ago to those one sees
today. There are many similarities proving that boys and girls
play in 1951 about the same way as they did in Flanders in
1560.

Brueghel was a typical Renaissance man, with an exploring
and inquisitive spirit. With a broad and rich humanity and
a sort of Homeric laughter, he investigated contemporary
life, embracing the bawdy and the beautiful, the scatological
and the sublime. Every activity and mood of man were suitable
subjects to be recast by his gifted brush into paintings of
extraordinary unity of design and color. In such an early work
as “Children’s Games,” his interest was still encyclOpedic:
the painting is a visual handbook. Indeed, it is said to record

all 154 games which Rabelais listed as those Gargantua played
in his fabulous childhood.

The origin of most of the games depicted by Brueghel goes
back much farther than his sixteenth century. Many of them
are ghostly re-enactments of primitive rites. Games like
“London Bridge,” for example, with the capture of a player
and a forfeit, probably reflect the period when building a
bridge involved human sacrifice to propitiate the water spirit.

Homer, Virgil and Ovid refer to balls, dolls and hoops, and
Petronius describes “Buck-Buck,”I when one lad climbs on
another’s back and says, “Bucca, bucca, quot sunt hie?”—
“Buck, buck, how many is this?” The ancient games of
“Astragals” and “Knucklebones” were prototypes for both dice
and jackstones. Greek women and girls played the latter with
five pieces of bone, and both presumably are degenerate forms
of early means of divination. DeSpite variations and new

materials, children’s games are timeless and unusual.

Reprinted from the New York Times Magazine.

SEPTEMBER 1951

 

-

Follow the Leader—This game probably derives
from children’s aping of adult religious dances.

 

Parallel Bars—The Ancient Greeks knew them,
too, and pictured the sport on vases and urns.

 

Leap-Frog—One of many leaping games derivng
from old rites to encourage grain to grow tall.

213

THE PEOPLE OF MINNESOTA, under the inspiration of Gov-
emor Luther \V. Youngdahl, not long ago approved expenditures of
money and recognition for the men, women and children in the state
hospitals. This expanded mental health program has brought new
hope to patients in institutions for the mentally ill and mentally re-
tarded. Expert psychiatric knowledge and clinical team approach
have brought modern methods to the assistance of one patient times

14,550—the hospital population.

R. RALPH N. Rosssn, Commis-
D sioner of Mental Health, has
recognized the true place of recreation
in the daily lives of mental hospital
patients. These activities are just one
phase in the new deal for mentally ill
persons in Minnesota. Expanded psy-
chological services and top-notch psy-
chiatric consultation services are avail-
able. Psychiatric social work in the
hospital and follow-up clinics in the
community are basic in the guidance
of patients returned to society.

In addition to the eight psychiatric
hospitals, there is an institution for
epileptics and one for the mentally
deficient. Seventy-four r cc r e a t i o n
workers and leaders are currently en-
trusted with the responsibility of pro-
viding an activity program that is
therapeutic and meaningful in the lives
of these handicapped people. The
present ratio of recreation workers per
number of patients is one to one
hundred ninety-five. Within the com-
ing year, a ratio of one to ninety is
sighted as an obtainable goal. This
new-found recognition of recreation as
a therapy in state hospitals has
brought varied prohlems. However,
through professional education for
recreation leaders, in-service training,
effective supervision and good inter-
pretation, it is heped that the place
of recreation activities in the hospital
setting will be accepted hy the medical
profession with enthusiasm.

Minnesota’s psychiatrists have re-
iterated the need of providing activi-
ties for all patients, particularly those
who are on the “back wards.” It is
especially challenging for the recrea-

214

tion worker to be able to carry on a
simple or complex program of events
for these men and women who have
been forgotten for so many years.
This one-patient stress has character-
ized the activation approach which, of
course; requires the services of many
trained leaders. Skilled leadership has
become an effective substitute for
mechanical restraints!

Civil service has provided a machin-
ery through which applicants can be
fairly tested and screened for this
specialized work. In the autumn of
1949, the provisional positions of
Recreation Worker I and Recreation
Worker II existed with salary ranges
of 8189-3219 and $224-$264 monthly.
Of course, these salaries were inade-
quate to recruit highly skilled person-
nel. The Civil Service Department
recognized the need for at least mini-
mum salaries for trained persons as
it approved a new salary schedule.
The current hospital recreation posi-
tions in the classified service of Min-
nesota State Civil Service are as fol-
lows:

Monthly
Position Salary Range“
Recreation Worker ....................... .. $189 - $219
Recreation Leader I .................... .. 204- 24-4-
Recreation Leader II .................... .. 244- 284

Patient Programs Supervisor I  300- 350
Patient Programs Supervisor II 421- 481

The basic minimum qualification for
the Recreation Worker level is high
school graduation and experience in
recreation programs. At the present
time, about eighty per cent of the
people in this class are eollegc gradu-
ates with majors in physical educa-
tion, psychology, sociology or allied

Reereatio:

fields. The positions above the Recrea-
tion Worker level include bachelor or
master degrees in recreation as desir-
able preparation. In various cases,
some of the leaders in these positions
have equivalent experience back-
grounds which act as most aeeeptable
substitute requirement fulfillments.
Eaeh institution has a number of Rec-
reation Workers and Recreation Leader
I’s, who are responsible to the Rcerea-
tion Leader II. The Recreation Leader
II supervises an average staff of eight
persons in a hospital. There is a Pa-
tient Programs Supervisor I in each
hospital who is generally responsible
for the over-all professional supervi-
sion and administration of recreation
as well as having administrative re-
sponsibility for the occupational thera-
py activities. This position cntails eo-
ordination of the total non-medical
therapy program in the institution.
The Patient Programs Supervisor 11
administers and supervises professional
aspects of the state-wide hospital recre-
ation series.

Each employee may receive his room,
board and laundry at the hospital for
thirty dollars per month. The Recrea-
tion Worker enjoys the usual benefits
of civil service status as well as a
forty-hour work week. However, the
stress is on the job performed and not
on the hours set forth. The patient’s
daily program does not terminate at
four p. m. This varied schedule of
events takes place in the morning,
afternoon and evening of a seven-day
week. Split schedules and good plan-
ning will result in total coverage and
a well-balanced array of activities with-
in the week. Good performance on the
job will be the best interpretation of

* These are adjusted salaries at the present
time. Minnesota’s salary plan carries an
adjustment provision to insure changes for
costs of living.

RECREATION

Frederick M. Chapman

in Minnesota State Hospitals

a meaningful program to medical per-
sonnel. Competent leadership of activi-
ties will, of course, ultimately include
salaries which are even higher than
those quoted herein.

The majority of the new Minnesota
hOSpital leaders have been subjected
to intensive psychological testing. It
is thought that the qualities of infinite
patience and understanding are neces-
sary for the therapist who works with
psychotics. The Rorshach test, Minne-
sota Multi-Phasic and Psychiatric ln-
ventory tests have been used as a
means of weeding out those candidates
with objectionable personality traits.
The six months probationary period
served by each employee acts as an-
other device in determining the work-
er’s attitude toward mental patients.
Considerable stress and weight are
placed upon personality factors in the
civil service testing procedures.

One of the duties of the recreation
personnel is that of demonstrating
fundamental activity leadership tech-
niques to the psychiatric aides (at-
tendants). The psychiatric aide’s job
analysis the
leadership of these activities. A prob-
lem of increasing importance is that
of how to demonstrate and teach these
fundamentals to aides who are not al-
ways receptive or understanding as to
the basic role or need of recreation
in a patient’s life. In state hospital
recreation, individual guidance and

includes assistance in

supervision of patients in leisure pur-
suits will at no time become a reality
without the c00peration and assistance
of psychiatric aides.

Activities which consistently draw
from arts, crafts, music, dramatics,
sports, games, nature, dance and social
recreation can serve a number of ob-
jectives in the patients’ lives. In the
Fergus Falls State Hospital, the pa-
tients’ newspaper staff represents dcm-

SEPTEMBER 1951

oeratic group participation toward a
common goal. The use of medicine
ball games presents an Opportunity for
patients in Hastings State Hospital to
find a release for pent-up aggressions
and hostilities. Patients’ orchestras,
rhythm bands, art classes, parties and
dances contribute to the resocializing
aspects so needed by one who is
mentally ill. The understanding leader
may most effectively gain rapport with
the patient and facilitate the process
of his becoming more receptive to
medical treatment. There is the danger
of our programs becoming merely
diversional releases for the masses. Of
pristine importance is the degree of
individual insight that the leader and
patient may discern through the facili-
ty of recreation.

Occupational therapy and hospital
recreation are two professions, each
with its own peculiar requirements
and professional standards. Each can
be coordinated under one administra-
tive directive and yet retain profession-
al individuality. The occupational
therapy consultant team is made up
of prominent therapists in that field.
They serve in a lay advisory capacity
to the Patient Programs Supervisor H
and act as an important interpretive
link between professional recreation
and occupational therapy.

A tool of which the recreation
leader II often has been in need is
that of supervisor media. Continued
the
portance of periodic planned staff
scheduled individual and
group conferences, assigned readings,
observations, interviews and attendance
at ease clinics. One advantage of
a good administrative hierarchy is
that a sensible plan of supervision
can be more realistically directed
and disseminated. State hospital rec-
reation centralization provides pro-

emphasis is placed upon im-

meetings,

FREDERICK M. CHAPMAN

gramming Opportunities to all hos-
pitals which are more abundant, pro-
fessional only
through standardized progressive tools
that we can systematically begin to
activate patients.

Modern psychiatry has subscribed
to the team approach and the total
resources of clinic members upon the
patient. Teamwork that reflects co-
operation and an attitude of care and
consideration towards the recipient
will produce a clearer insight and bet-
ter therapist-patient relationship. The
hospital conference team in Minne-
sota consists of the psychiatrist and
supervisors of psychological services,
dietetics, psychiatric social work and
hospital recreation supervisors. This
state level supervisory team visits each
hospital monthly and confers with the
respective departments relative to their
progress in the betterment of patients’
lives. The psychiatric training team is
made up of the psychiatrist, psychia-
tric aide SUpervisor, nurse, psycholo-
gist and recreation leader II. This
team demonstrates non-restraint meth-
odology to the new psychiatric aides
as a part of their orientation and in-
service training.

The Center for Continuation Study
is another centralized training tool
that brings together representatives of
the treatment team bi-weekly to Anoka
State Hospital. A morning case clinic
is attended by all and is followed by
afternoon division meetings of the re-

and uniform. It is

spective professional groups. This peri-
odic gathering of key recreation per-
sonnel does much in the light of view-
ing each other’s progress in the
hospitals and evaluating the various
therapy departments.

Selected and screened volunteers
serves as
supervisor of Patients Program Serv-
ices for the Minnesota State Hospitals.

215

 

play an important role in evening and
week-end activities for patients. Of
especial significance in this state is
the fact that volunteers interpret the
hospital to the community. Public sup-
port of a state-wide expanded mental
health program depends upon attitudes
and public education regarding mental
patients. Working with volunteers so
that maximum coordination is effected
can result in problems and conflicts.
In one state hospital, a volunteer coun-
cil of group representatives and pro-
fessional staff members presents a
workable device for orientation and in-
terpretation purposes.

The recreation clinic held at Moose
Lake Hospital for recreation leader
II’s served as a setting for the inter-
change of ideas on the techniques of
supervision. State hospital recreation
leaders served as chairmen of an after-
noon session on hospital recreation at
the Minnesota Recreation Institute held
in May 1950. The National Hospital
Recreation Institute took place at the
University of Minnesota in June 1950
and presented many new possibilities
for revitalized programs. A central

training school has been established
at Hastings State Hospital and prom-
ises to be an enthusiastic center of
learning activity for hospital recrea-
tion workers as well as for technicians
in other fields. ,

An excellent source of leadership in
the patients’ day is the field work pro-
gram, which offers learning opportuni-
ties on the ward scene for recreation
college students. These students are
future candidates for employment and
can make real contributions to the
activation program if consistent supcr-
vision is available. Two of the state
hospitals enjoy the services of these
field workcrs six hours weekly per
student for eleven week assignments.

As part of their training, graduate
students at the University of Minne-
sota, who are candidates for the master
degree in hospital recreation, will be
available for six-month internships at
hospitals throughout the state. These
candidates will receive monthly sti-
pends of sixty dollars at the state
hospitals. One-half of this sum will
cover all costs of room, board and

laundry. Miss Dorothy Taaffe, super-

visor of the recreation training project,
will guide the work of these trainees
on the job.

A point which needs frequent cm-
phasis is the need for professional
awareness and affiliation with organi-
zations in the recreation field. The
majority of this state’s institutional
rccreation personnel have utilized
services of the National Recreation
Association and the Hospital Recrea-
tion Section of the American Recrea-
tion Society. A constant need is that
of interpreting to fellow colleagues
the importance of membership in these
groups. Standards in the field can be
raised through unified understanding
of national needs and resources.

Recognition of recreation’s place in
the patients’ lives has become a reality
in these state hospitals. Growth of a
staff produces problems, but yet carries
the meaning of this basic human need
before other professional personnel
and citizens in the community. This
start in the total activation of mental
patients reflects a coming trend and a
new horizon in psychiatric treatment
for those in human need.

 

VOLUNTEERS

The following city recreation de-
partments find volunteers very helpful:

Raleigh, North Carolina, uses col-
lege students as leaders in children’s
play programs, crafts and music. It
has been estimated that last year these
students contributed about fifteen
thousand dollars worth of service to
the recreation department.

Richmond, Virginia, through its
neighborhood councils and committees
for special all-city events, receives con-
siderable assistance from volUnteers.

Salem, Virginia, used about sixty
volunteers during its summer program
on playgrounds in athletic programs
and for special events—such as the
Fourth of July program, fishing rodeo,

field trips and so on.

Both Jefferson County, Kentucky,
and Norfolk County, Virginia, use vol-
unteers extensively.

SPECIAL TRAIN IN G
SESSIONS

Special college training sessions have
been planned for the National Recre-
ation Congress in Boston the first week
in October. These will be of interest to
recreation educators, professional
workers and students. Representatives
from a number of colleges and univer-
sities will call attention to new devel-
opments and Special features charac-
terizing their respective institutions.
Their comments will be supplemented
by special materials which they have
submitted for exhibit purposes.

CHANCE OF ADDRESS: Send your new address at least thirty days be-
fore the date of the issue with which it is to take effect. Address: Reereation
Magazine, Circulation Department, 421 Fifth Avenue South, Minneapolis
15, Minn. Send old address with the new, enclosing if possible your address
label. The post offiee will not forward copies unless you provide extra post-
age. Duplieate eopies eannot be sent.

 

216

 

 

PLANNING
YOUR
HALLO WE ’EN

Be sure to send to the National

___

Recreation Association for "The Com-

munity Celebrates Hallowe’en,” M.P.

278, price 15c. Also refer to listing
of Hallowe’en and Thanksgiving ma-
terials on inside back cover of this

issue. Introduce something new this

yea rl

NATIONA L Ii EC R EATI ON A SSOCIATION
New York 10, N. Y.

315 Four! In Avenue

FOLK DANCE GUIDE

1952 edition in preparation. Groups and
classes may obtain free listing in Directory.

Write to: Folk Dance Guide, Dept. R, Box
842, Cooper Station, New York 8, New York.
Please state day of meeting, hour, and ad-
mission fee.

RECREATION

John A. Turner

,4 WW 1mm 2» ‘7W game

A source of personnel in an emergency situation

: HE ST. LOUIS RECREATION De-

partment has developed a leaders’
training program that successfully has
solved two of the major problems
which have plagued that department
for several years. In addition, other
ramifications of the program unexpect-
edly have benefited the department to
such a degree that even these second-
ary developments alone would have
justified the operation of the training
program.

The two major problems which have
been solved by the training program
concerned the personnel for the city’s
centers and playgrounds. The first
problem involved that chronic ailment
of all recreation departments—lack of
personnel. The second was a problem
peculiar to a city which operates under
civil service regulations in the appoint-
ment of employees.

Relative to the first problem, recrea-
tion centers in St. Louis have, for the
past few years, been literally swamped
with patrons—to such an extent that
the professional staffs were unable to
accomplish all that they had felt was
necessary. For budgetary reasons, ex-
pansion of the professional staff had
been impossible and attempts to secure
adequate volunteers—both as to num-
ber and training—through the usual
sources, were unsuccessful. But, now,
as a result of the Junior Leaders’ Train-
ing Program, one hundred eighty
eager, trained volunteer leaders are as
sisting the professional staffs in all of
the city’s centers.

Concomitantly, the centers’ pro
grams have been enriched and expand-

JOHN A. TURNER is the superintendent
of recreation of St. Louis, Missouri.

SEPTEMBER 1951

ed; but, admittedly, the center directors
have almost a full-time job in supervis-
ing the volunteer work in the centers.
The over-all improvement, however, is,
as may be expected, very apparent—
far outweighing any detrimental effects
Which may have developed.

In regard to the second problem,
when the list of civil service eligibles
had been exhausted, the St. Louis Rec-
reation Department was permitted to
appoint temporary or provisional em-
ployees to fill any open positions until
such time as the annual examination
again was held.

Each year, the list of certified em-

-ployees had been exhausted and the

recreation department had found it
necessary, in order to keep its program
operating, to employ provisional per-
sonnel about whom little had been
known, except that their surface quali-
fications appeared satisfactory. The re-
sults, of course, were not always good.
Now, however, owing to the volunteer
leaders’ training program, the depart-
ment has a backlog of one hundred
eighty trained volunteer workers from
which to choose its temporary em-
ployees.

The training program, which is cur-
rently reaching St. Louisans of all ages
and backgrounds, offers eclectic train-
ing to those students participating in
the course. The volunteers attend one
three—hour session of lectures, discus-
sions and demonstrations each Wed-
nesday night, and also are required to
work one session of from two to four
hours weekly in one of the centers un-
der the supervision of the center direc-
tors. During the ten weeks that the pro-
gram operates, the Wednesday evening
sessions are designed to give the stu-

dents a choice sampling of subjects—
including recreation philosophy, first
aid, training in low organized games,
public relations and many other facets
of the total recreation picture.

The volunteer work in the centers is
planned in such a way that these lead-
ers receive experience in all phases of
the activities; in other words, individu-
als are not restricted to working mere-
1y with a club group, with crafts, with
athletics or whatever. Each, through
this volunteer service, is exposed to
some actual leadership work in every
phase of the center’s program.

This very successful venture, inci-
dentally, was publicized through coop-
eration with the mayor’s public rela-
tions expert. The majority of the pub-
licity for the course appeared in the
local neighborhood weeklies, although
the daily papers ran a few small de-
scriptive articles of the proposed
course.

In all publicity, the content and pur-
pose of the course were very briefly
explained and those interested were in-
structed to register at the recreation

“T6
oggoo
we:

  
   

department office. Although the depart-
ment dared expect no more than fifty
responses, the total numbered well over
two hundred fifty. A final group of
one hundred eighty applicants were

217

 

selected on a basis of potential worth
to the department.

The incentive, also emphasized in
all publicity, was twofold. First, an
appeal was made to the patriotism of
St. Louisans, pointing out that many of
the members of the permanent recrea-
tion staff were being called into the
services, that the program in the cen-
ters was badly in need of volunteer as-
sistance and that, in the event of a
national emergency, it would be neces-
sary for the recreation department to
expand greatly its program to meet the
increased needs of the population dur-
ing such a period. The second incentive
was the fact that the personnel depart-
ment of the city agreed to give certain
credits on the civil service examination
to those satisfactorily completing the

training program. In addition, the rec-
reation departmcnt announced its plans
to award certificates as well.

The last two aspects of this training
program have required the establish-
ment and maintenance of a complcte
set of records, which, of course, must
be kept with scrupulous accuracy. Ad-
ditional demands have been placed up-
on the time of those of the professional
staff who have been required to in-
struct at the Wednesday night sessions
and to assist and guide the volunteer
leaders in their work in the centers. In
spite of all of this, the program has
proved so successful that plans are
now under way to make this program
an annual affair.

As was pointed out earlier, certain
ramifications of this program have

 2346 W
Recreation and Park Yearbook

A Unique EditionuLimited

proved very bcneficial, such as the
public relations value. The impact of
one hundred eighty eager, personable,
talkative peoplc expounding the thco-
ries of recreation throughout the city,
rcaching all classcs of people, can-
not be underestimated. The results of
this already have become evident in
the fact that there has been a rcsur-
gence of community interest in recrea-
tion department activities. The publici-
ty has been of immeasurable value, [00,
in forcefully bringing to public attcn-
tion the space shortage and personnel
problems of the department.

It is quite possible that later develop-
ments may alter the picture somewhat;
but, currently, the St. Louis Recreation
Department is extremely enthusiastic
over the apparent success of its project.

Never before has an attempt been made to record in one volume the year’s work of
municipal and county recreation and park authorities throughout the country. This edition
brings together FOR THE FIRST TIME a statement of the activities, facilities, recreation
leadership, management and expenditures of the agencies providing these closely related

public services. Its preparation has been a cooperative undertaking based upon the reports
of more than two thousand park and recreation agencies.

$1.50

JUST 0W THE PRESS

Order Now!

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION-~315 Fourth Avenue--New York 10, N.Y.

218

RECREATION

HE FOUR ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS of

Oceanside, Long Island, New York,
take great pride in the organization
and success Of their noon-hour play-
ground activities, particularly because
Of the service given by fifth and sixth
grade boys and girls who serve as game
leaders. This article relates how the
system was organized, the philOSOphy
behind it and how it functioned last
year at South Oceanside Road School
Number Four. A similar system was in
Operation at Oceanside’s other three
elementary schools.

Since it was considered education-
ally desirable to have small groups at
play, two portions Of the playground
were marked off for each of the ten
classes———one for the boys and one for
the girls. The twenty playground areas
varied in size according to the age and
needs Of the groups. To each group
was assigned a sixth-grade game leader
and an assistant who assumed responsi-
bility for the supervision Of play and
the keeping Of good order. Aware Of
the possibility that a game leader
might be absent from time to time, we
organized what was known as the “fly-
ing squad,” comprised of two boys and
two girls who were ready to step in and
take over anybody’s assignment. I gave
the adult supervision; my job was tO
stimulate, guide and direct the play,
but always indirectly, through the
game leaders. In their eyes, I was not
there to run their show but merely tO
give assistance in the event Of an emer-
gency.

Reprinted through permission Of The
Nation’s Schools.

SEPTEMBER 1951

Thomas J. Kilroy

Child Leaders Take (Iver
Noon-Hour Program

When school opened in September,
the physical education teacher held a
conference with the game leaders. At
this meeting, the young people were
given an opportunity tO express their
Opinions about rules and regulations,
qualities of good leadership and the
importance of good sportsmanship.
Out Of this lively discussion evolved a
“game leader’s code,” expressed in
simple language by the boys and girls.
Periodically, meetings were held tO
iron out any problems which might
have arisen. Each meeting was a cO-
operative affair, with the childrenocx-
changing ideas and Offering one an-
other some worthwhile suggestions for
improving the playground program.
True, each leader was primarily con-
cerned with his or her individual
group, but all of the leaders worked in
harmony for the welfare of the whole
school.

TO provide an Opportunity for the
student body to become familiar with
rules and regulations, a special assem-
bly program was prepared. Here, again,
the young leaders assumed full respon-
sibility, having appointed a committce
Of five tO work out the necessary de-
tails. As is to be expected Of children
of this age, there was a great deal of
ceremony—with boys and girls making
extemporaneous speeches, taking a
“game leader’s oat ” and pinning
badges on one another.

For Democratic Living

If activities are tO serve their true
function Of preparing our young peo-
ple for democratic living, it is the job

Of the school to provide experiences in
group leadership. By the time boys and
girls reach the sixth grade, they seek
group approval and try to make thcm-
selves felt in group relationships. This
is especially true Of the aggressive
child or one who assumes the rOle of
a bully. Such a child is capable of re-
leasing tremendous energy and, if given
the right kind and proper amount of
guidance, can find expression in nu-
1nerous ways on the playground.

We cannot overestimate the impor-
tance Of children’s working together.
Though children are gregarious by na-
ture, they need tO learn by experience
how tO work harmoniously with others.
Moreover, there is a growing realiza-
tion that, the earlier children begin tO
work together, the stronger the carry-
over will be to later life.

Then, tOO, experience has taught us
that children like to follow other chil-
dren. They can’t seem to get away from
the Old cry, “Follow the gang.” Insofar
as leadership is concerned, sometimes
children dO a better and more thorough
job than do adults. Perhaps the answer
tO this is that they are able to speak
the same language as the members of
their groups and have a better under-
standing of what makes the other fcl-
lows tick. At any rate, if their efforts
are geared along constructive lines,
they can do a grand Ob for the school.
Children Of this age catch on fast, and,
once they know that we have confi-
dence in them, their willingness-to-do,
enthusiasm and loyalty are endless. A
certain amount of guidance is neces-
sary, but the degree of intervention

219

 

must be minimized as the situation
progresses. Oftentimes, children resent
playing the role of puppets, with all
sorts of restrictive measures controlling
their actions. They want to be active

participants rather than passive re-
cipients.

Tact and Diplomacy

Playground activities lasted from
12:25 to 12:50 pm. The game leaders
were stationed at assigned posts a few
minutes before their groups arrived.
Each leader was adequately prepared
with the necessary equipment. There
was a quick roll call.

Various activities then took place,
depending upon the season of the year
and the wishes of the group. When
teams were chosen for intra-group
competition, every effort was made to
be sure that the opposing sides were
evenly matched. There were to be no
one-sided affairs. The game leaders
gave down-to-earth instructions and
the children listened attentively. Em-
phasis was placed upon good sports-
manship rather than upon winning the
game. When the activity commenced,
there was a great deal of shouting, to
be sure, but there didn’t seem to be

any serious confusion. Occasionally,
there would be a dispute on a close
play, but this was amicably settled by
the game leader.

Sharp commands were rarely given.
0n the contrary, these young leaders
achieved results merely by making sug-
gestions; they handled each situati01
like veteran statesmen. Surprisingly
they used a great deal of tact and
diplomacy, being careful not to'rul.
the other fellow the wrong way. There
was no haste in jumping to conclu
sions, and the other fellow was given
every opportunity to voice his opinion
But he was made to know, in no un-
certain terms, that he was not going
to “get away with something that is
morally wrong.” In other words, the
game leaders had the courage to stand
up for those things which they believed
to be right. Moreover, they never lost
sight of the fact that they had pledged
their support to defend and uphold the
principles of the “game leader’s code,’
which they themselves had developed
A pledge from this is, as follows:

“I will do my best to set a good ex-
ample for the members of my group;
to be kind, patient and understanding;
to respect the rights of others and to

encourage good sportsmanship at all
times.”

By and large, things ran smoothly
and the children had a lot of fun.
Fundamentally, from the administra-
tive point of view, that was the most
important thing. As long as everyone
had a good time and there was a rea-
sonable amount of law and order, the
program was clicking on all cylinders.

When the first bell rang at twelve-
fifty, there was a hush. Activity suddcn
ly stopped; children for1ned lines———and
straight lines, too. There was no more
shouting. This was serious business
with the game leaders; they had a job
to perform and they wanted to do it
well. Soon the lines began to move
toward the building, the smaller chil-
dren going'first. It was a grand sight
to see more than three hundred pupils
marching in almost perfect formation.
The game 'leaders accompanied their
groups all the way into the classrooms;
it was a job well done. While this
might seem like regimentation at first
appearance, it was rather the result of
group experience and was accepted as
the way to achieve goals in an orderly
manner. The children learned the
meaning of “liberty in law.”

 

Dr. Peter W. Dykema

OOn May 13, Dr. Peter W. Dykema, one of the
inspiring music leaders of this generation, died suddenly
at his home. Even though he had retired some years ago,
he still was very active in helping the cause of music.

For over thirty-five years, Dr. Dykema had been con-
nected with the National Recreation Association. During
the first World War, he helped with the community
singing program for soldiers and sailors under War Camp
Community Service. For many years he attended the
National Recreation Congress and was a tremendous
influence in getting music introduced as an important
part of the recreation program. Still later, Peter Dykema
became a music consultant of the NRA and, for a number
of years, had charge of the music at the National
Recreation School.

During this period, he advised on policies and helped

in the writing of several of the association’s books and
pamphlets dealing with music as a recreation activity.

Dr. Dykema, as chairman of the department of music
at the University of Wisconsin and, later, as a director
of the department of music at Teachers’ College, Columbia
University, was widely known as one of the leading
musie educators of the country. It was significant that,
as such, his interest was not limited to formal education
He believed in the kind of music training in the schools
that would carry on into the community and after school
years. He saw music as a means of self-expression and as
an emotional release for all the people.

Peter Dykema had an inspiring personality and a great
gift for developing leadership in others. The National
Recreation Association and the whole recreation movement
have been enriched by his life and work.

m

220

RECREATION

 

 
  

III

-_'ng of the favorite songs of years past highlights an enjoyable day.

In the fall of 1949, we became interested in the needs
and activities of the older citizens of Durham, North
Carolina, and soon learned that members of other organi-
zations were preparing studies on this subject. Shortly
thereafter we met with representatives from the local
chapters of the American Association of University
Women, the Altrusa Club, the YWCA Family Service
and the Department of Public Recreation to pool our
ideas. We formed a group and, for lack of a better name,
designated it the Durham Committee on Successful Aging.
We then began an interesting and exciting program of
study and activity, seeking ways and means of providing
“something to do” for the older members of our own
families and community.

These were the steps we took: We visited community
facilities; talked with workers in state and community
agencies; presented panel discussions on the needs of
older people at meetings of the AAUW and the Durham
Social Planning Council; made a collection of articles
and pamphlets upon the subject and placed this collection
in the library of the School of Nursing at Duke University,
where it is available for the use of students, nurscs,
instructors and individuals. The committee compiled two
large scrapbooks—one of newspaper articles, clippings
and pictures of our own project; the other, clippings of
interest from magazines and new5papers. Both are kept
up-to-date and are in the library with the pamphlet
collection.

The first adventure in activities for our older citizens
was a city-wide golden-age Christmas party. Because of
its central location, the party was held at the YWCA.
Invitations were sent to persons sixty years of age and
older, the names being furnished by ministers, social
agencies and others. The more than one hundred men
and women who attended gave every indication of en-
joying the program presented by the recreation depart-
MRS. GERTRUDE M. WHITE is director of special activities
in Durham’s Department of Public Recreation, N. Carolina.

SEPTEMBER 1951

.2!- -
I-
l

Gertrude M. White

A Day’s Camping
for Youngsters

Over Sixty

ment, as well as the refreshments served by the members
of the committee. Those attending requested that this be
made an annual affair.

Our most unique program, however, was a series of
three days of camping—as a part of the summer day
camp which previously had been Operated by the depart-
ment of recreation for youngsters from seven to fourteen
years of age. Splendid publicity was given the project by
newspapers, radio and church bulletins. A special full-
page Sunday feature, with pictures, was carried by one of
the papers. Attractive invitations were sent to those who
had attended the Christmas party and to additional people
whose names had been suggested.

Registrations were made at the YWCA, either in person
or by telephone, on designated days. When requested,

transportation was provided by the Red Cross Motor
Corps, the YWCA, YMCA and by station wagons and
cars of the individual members of our committee. Those
who were able and desired to do so paid a registration
fee; those who could not afford it were made just as
welcome. Expenses above registration fees collected were
paid by the committee.

At ten 3. m., on the days set aside for oldsters, the
group gathered at the day camp site of Northgate Park.
Here they were registered, introduced to other members
of the group and served a fruit drink.

Handcraft tables, presided over by instructors from our
committee, were provided for those interested in the
activity, and pot holders from loopers, hammered ash
and pin trays from scrap sheets of metal, as well as pine
needle vases and mats, were made. A large table with
prizes was arranged for the bingo fans. Socializing and
strolling in the park were most appealing to a small group.
An interesting occurrence was the reunion of two girl-
hood friends who had lost all trace of each other for
forty-two years. There were a number of other instances
where both men and women met again after being
separated for a long period of time.

221

At twelve-thirty, a well-balanced, appetizing hot lunch
—prepared by our camp dietician and her staff—was
served under the trees. Immediately following this, the
nature specialist from our Children’s Museum gave an
informal talk, bringing along one of his animals for
each session. This provided a basis for the exchange of
interesting past experienccs and amusing stories.

It had been suggested in the invitations that those
attcnding should bring any hobbies which they might
have. These, along with the articles made during thc day,
were on display. A photographer from one of the news-
papcrs took pictures of the groups participating in the
various activities. These were published, to the delight
of the oldsters.

To bring the day to a close, one of the older people
played a portable organ, while another led the singing of
favorite songs of years past. A high spot, one afternoon,

 

Keith A. Macdonald

VALLEJO Is A CITY of twenty-three thousand, by the last
oflicial 1950 census count; however, in the Greater
Vallejo area, which is the same as the Unified School Dis-
trict, there is a population of sixty-seven thousand—at
least, that was the count the first of the year. Today it’s
a lot different because Mare Island Naval Shipyard, Benicia
Arsenal and Travis Air Field are increasing their comple-
ment; hence, the city now has a population closer to sev-
enty-five thousand and it is increasing every day.

This new population, coming from near and far, means
additional responsibility for the recreation department; in
fact, it’s going to mean the same thing to every com-
munity recreation facility, resource and budget.

Where do we fit in as far as the newcomch are con-
cerned? What can we do? What did We do? First of all,
we mimeographed a four-page sheet that started out like

this . . .

We Welcome You to Vallejo

“Dear Newcomer:

“The Greater Vallejo Recreation District welcomes you
to Vallejo and desires to acquaint you and personally in-
vite you to takc part in its recreation activities. During
the course of the year, you will find, within easy reach,
many. opportunities to take part in almost any type of ac-

tivity that may interest you . . . ”

With that introduction, we next proceeded to list infor-
mation under the following headings:

School Playgrounds Open for Summer Programs; Play-
grounds and Community Centers; Tot Lots and Parks;

222

was a short period of square dancing. One of the group
called the figures while three others provided string music.

At three o’clock, transportation arrived and the group
rcluctantly departed. Members were profuse in their
praise of the pleasure afiorded them and requested that
the days of camping be extended to at least six for another
season. Plans are now being made to grant this request.

These days of camping, we feel, not only brought
pleasure to approximately one hundred fifty of thcse
youngsters over sixty, but illustrate what may be ac-
complished when social agencies and a department of
public recreation plan and work together. Too often, we
have stressed the need of recreation for youngsters; now
we realize that recreation knows no age limit and that
those who have passed the springs of life can respond as
enthusiastically to a well-planned program as any teen-
age boy and girl.

Greeting Newcomers to Vallejo

Other Recreational Areas; Seasonal Community Programs;
Vallejo Community Center—Activity Schedule; Summer
Activities; Recreation District Staff.

On the back page is a brief of what the district includes,
what the budget is and how it is financed, with the last
paragraph stating: “Because of your contribution through
taxes to the recreation district program, we especially in-
vite you to share in the use of its facilities and to enter
any phase of the program that may interest you.”

From Mrs. C. A. Lund of the Welcome Service of
Vallejo, we received a list of many of the new families who
have moved into the city—and although she already has
made an initial visit, we have been following up the same
leads with a personalized call. To date, we are just in the
introductory stages, but by the time this is published, some
two hundred or more families will have been visited.

The response from these newcomers is gratifying—wor-
dial and friendly. For instance, one newcomer from In-
diana said, “How very nice of you to do this. My husband
and I have been anxious to find out ust what to do about
meeting other people in the community. . . . I’ve never
heard of any recreation department doing this.”

It will take a few months, before the newcomers become
adjusted and acquainted, to make their numbcrs show up
in our attcndance figures; however, it is felt that if our
method of contact does nothing more than make people
feel more friendly toward the city and its people, that alone
will be a commendable achievement.

KEITH MACDONALD’S background includes teaching, coach-
ing, social work, Navy recreation. He is now executive di-
rector for the Greater Vallejo Recreation District, Calif.

RECREATION

 

Those of us interested in the continu-

ation of square dancing as a healthy
form of recreation have enjoyed the
many letters publishcd in reply to the
controversial article, “Whither ‘West-
crn’ Square Dance?” which appeared
in the November 1950 issue of RECRE-
ATION.

These seemed to indicate a strong
undercurrent of hope that we all could
work together to clear up the many
misunderstandings which seem to pre-
vail among callers and leaders in vari-
ous sections of the country; and that,
although we agrced or disagreed with
this article, basically we all are seeking
common ground upon which to meet
for the betterment of the square dance
and for the benefit of all concerned.

Square dancing should be the means
of bringing pe0ple together in friend-
ship, rather than that of creating ill-
will. Therefore, those of us who are
leaders should do everything possible
to carry out its real purpose in a way
that is best for the country as a whole.
We should, indeed, take great pride in
the dances and costumes which are in-
digenous to our own areas, but this
should not be carried to extremes.

We all agree, 1 am sure, that square
dancing is for the majority and not

MR. DURLACHER is well-known to the
recreation field. Several times he has
been in charge of the square dancing
at National Recreation Congresses.

SEPTEMBER 1951

 

for a choscn few. This has been
brought out in each and every letter
so far. We know, beyond all doubt,
that we can learn from each other
through the proper exchange of idcas.
Unless we find a medium for such ex-
change, however, and put a stop to
these many feuds, we shall be ruining,
rather than building, the square dance.
If ever any activity needed its leaders
brought together in harmony, it is
this one.

Many of us have thought, from time
to time, of forming a national associ-
ation of callers to meet this need.
Others have shaken their heads, stating
that such associations become so t0p-
heavy with officers, rules and regula-
tions that the original purpose is de-
feated. There has been talk of stand-
ardizing terminology and figures. How
this could ever be done will remain for
years the sixty-four-dollar question.

Perhaps all we needed was the
“shock treatment” provided by “Whith-
er ‘Western’ Square Dance?” to make
us realize what we have been doing, in
a blind sort of way, in every section of
the country. We are all human, of
course, and can make mistakes with-
out realizing how our actions are af-
fecting others. At times it takes strong
medicine to awaken us.

1 have always believed that con-
structive ideas, ralhcr than arguments,
are the answer to any question. What

we need most is complete knowledge of

Eddie Durlacher

Cease Firing

Ready East? Ready West, North and South?

Then let’s “Honor your partners!”

what is actually happening in each sec-
tion of the country and how it is being
done. We should have this information
written in an unbiased way with no
claims as to its being the only way or
the best way. Thc question is: How
best to reach everybody through onc
medium? What existing national publi-
cation might be the best vehicle for an
exchange of ideas and information?
After checking all of the square dance
magazines, I found they were either so
sectionalized or so editorially biased
that it would take a King Solomon to
decide upon one among them. To start
another magazine, at this time, would
present so many problems that it would
take years to clear them away. The
next step, then, is to find a national
periodical in sympathy with what we
all are striving to do and one that will
be able to do the most good. This, to
me, and I hope to you, is the very
magazine that has brought all of this to
a head—RECREATION.

This magazine is unbiased and pub-
lished in the best interests of all forms
of recreation. lt could be the medium
for not only answering our present
problem, but also for giving aid to
many others interested in starting
square dancing activities. \Ve know
that practically every recreation direc-
tor can be interested in square dancing
and that, through the efforts of recrea-
tion directors, millions of the uniniti-
ated can be interested. We also realize

227

 

that many physical educators subscribe
to RECREATION and that they, too,
could be stimulated into seeing tliiit
square dancing should become a part
Of the curriculum in many schools
where it is not enjoyed at the present
time.

The problem of 110w bcst to go about
a united plan can easily be solved if
we can interest RECREATION in devot-
ing a portion of its pages to it. What
do we need most?———Facts from state
or sectional organizations or qualified
sectional leaders where no organiza-
tions are set up. Where are these sec-
tions? If we check a map of the United
-States, we will find the imaginary
dividing lines according to natural dif-

ferences in danccs: east from the Pa-
cific Coast to the Dakotas, a portion of
Ncbraska and Kansas, most of Oklaho-
ma and Texas; the central northern
states; the South; thc East. Each of
these sections could be SCparated into
three sub—scctions. Each sub-section,
through the editors of RECREATION,
would be invited to submit articles on
what is being done in that particular
area. A time limit would be set for rc-
ceiving thesc articles and it would then
be the privilege of the editors to select
the copy. As an impartial body, they
would naturally select only the material
which would be most beneficial to all.
In this way, a story from each sub-sec-
tion would appear once each year and

keep cveryone in touch with other sec-
tions for mutual understanding and
support. What wc need is some group
not in “our” immediate family to help
us at this time. l have talked over this
plan with Miss Dorothy Donaldson,
managing editor of RECREATION, who
has always been a very good friend,
and an impartial one, to square danc-
ing. She has assured me that if it is thc
wish of the majority of thosc from
whom answers are received, through
this article, the magazinc would be
happy to consider it. The final decision
is up to each and every one of us in-
terested in square dancing for other
than selfish reasons.

May we hear from those interested?

James A. Sharp

Father 011 the Playground

FOR SEVERAL WEEKS prior to opening our full-timc

summer playground program in July, we were con-
fronted with the problem of what to do with the children
after school and supper hours. How were we to prevent
them from committing minor malicious acts to private and
school property? What type of program could be installed
on our nine school playgrounds which would supply a
constructive, well-organized plan of play; and, most im-
portant, if a program could be developed, from what
source would we Obtain proper supervision?

It must be pointed out, in regard to supervision, that
a great majority of the playground leaders used on our
full-time playgrounds are either teachers or students still
in college. Members of our regular staff, therefore, were
not available, since we planned our part-time program to
begin with daylight saving time late in April and to
continue until the installation of our full-time program
the first week in July. Supervision for the period of after-
school until the supper hour posed no problem, as the
physical education department of the school system
handled these particular hours in their regular physical
education program. Our problem was the supervision of
the children after supper until dark.

Finally, a “doubled-barreled idea” was suggested by
the recreation department. It proposed that if certain
fathers of children living near their respective playgrounds
could bc intcrested in serving as part-time playground
supervisors, perhaps their prcscnce and control would
stop a great deal of unwantcd and costly damage; also,

AUTIIOR is director of recreation in Jamestown, New York.

228

 

such a program would bring the playground much closer
to a number of homes and parents. Through the coopera-
tion of the superintendent of schools and the elementary
school principals, a staff of father supervisors was or-
ganized. They were to keep the playgrounds open from
six to nine each night of the week and were paid at the
rate of one dollar per hour.

In time, it was discovered that these fathers were ex-
tremely interested in providing games for the children
as well as in doing the job of helping to prevent damage
to private and public property. A manual was then
prepared for them by the recreation staff, eontaining
games, rules and regulations, safety hints, playground
responsibilities and other pertinent information which
might be of assistance. Soon the willing fathers had
organized individual playground programs. The important
thing is that the fathers were not content merely to
“watch” the children play; they wanted them to participate
in some well-organized game or group of games.

Last year, the nine playgrounds were kept open on a
part-time basis for a total of 1,350 hours. Total attendance
was estimated to be 23,149 youngsters. The total cost of
supervision to September 23, 1950 was $1,350. Since the
installation of this after-supper program three years ago,
there has been a very noticeable decrease in property
damage in and around the schools. Comments from parents
and school authorities have becn those of commendation.
During the past two years, the program has been con-
tinued after the schools opcn in the fall until the discon-
tinuance of daylight saving time, late in Septembcr.

RECREATION

o For the benefit of thosc recreation
lcaders who are not familiar with the
standards recommended by the Na-
tional Section on Women’s Athletics
of the American Association for
Health, Physical Education and Recre-
ation, we are reprinting them herewith.
Although developed from an educa-
tional point of view, they are equally
applicable in all recreation situations
and should be familiar to all recrea-
tion leaders and executives:

Standards for Desirable Practices

The program of athletic activitics
should:

1. Be based upon the recognition of
individual differences (age, physique,
interests, ability, experience, health)
and the stage of maturity (physiologi-
cal, emotional, social) of the partici-
pants.

2. Be determined by:

a. The evaluation of the activity in

its present and its future use.

1). The classification of individuals

in ability from beginner to expert.

c. The development from simplc to

complex activity.

3. Provide opportunity for each
player to lead according to her merit
and to follow according to her willing-
ness and ability to adapt herself to
othcrs and to a common end.

4. Promote the acquisition of skill
by using sound and varied methods.

5. Schedule regular play periods of
limited length, at frequent intervals, at
a time of day when energy is at a
high level.

6. Provide for the selection of mem-
bers of all teams so that they play
against those of approximately the

* An adaptation of Standards in Athletics for
Girls and Women, National Section on Wom-

en’s Athletics, 1201 16th Street, NW, Wash-
ington 6, D. C. $.75. Specific “Standards for

Guiding Competition for Girls and Women”

in the various team and individual sports ap-
pear in the respective Sports guides.

SEPTEMBER 1951

Desirable Practices

3

in Athletics

for Girls and Warren“

same ability and maturity.

7. Be taught, coached and ofiiciated'
by qualified women whenever and
wherever possible.

8. Provide officials whose decisions
are sound, consistent and impartial.

9. Include the use of official rules

'authorized by the National Section on

Women’s Athletics of the American
Association for Health, Physical Edu-
cation and Recreation.

10. Stimulate the participants to
play for the enjoyment of playing and
not for tangible rewards or because of
artificial incentives.

ll. Include a variety of sports, both
team and individual, and provide op-
portunity for all girls wishing to par-
ticipate to be a member of a team in
those sports for which teams are
organized.

l2. Promote informal social events
in connection with competition.

13. Secure written parental permis-
sion for minors engaging in any cxtra-
mural competition.

14. Educate girls and women con-
cerning appr0priate costumes for
sports.

15. Limit extramural competition to
a small geographic area.

16. Provide safe transportation in
bonded carriers.

17. Provide a program of competi-
tion for girls separate from that
arranged for boys (eliminating such
events as double-header games or
“curtain raisers”), except in those
activities in which boys and girls are

encouraged to play togcther on mixcd
teams.

18. Limit the total length of sports
seasons and the maximum number of
practice periods and games to be
played in a day or a week. Specific
recommendations may be obtained in

the “Specific Standards” referred to
above.

Leadership

Administrators, teachers or coaches
and players primarily should be con-
cerned with the outcomes of the pro-
gram.

1. The administrator is directly re-
sponsible for:

a. Selecting qualified women to

direct the program.

b. Providing facilities, equipment
and finances to carry on the pro-
gram.

c. Providing equal use of facilities
and equipment for boys and girls.

d. Providing health safeguards.

e. Guiding publicity to emphasize
the educational and recreational
values of the program.

2. The teacher or coach is reSponsi-

ble for:

a. Having a thorough knowledge of
the games, their rules and strat-
egy.

b. Providing Opportunity for all
girls to play.

c. Encouraging skillful play for full
enjoyment of the game.

d. Emphasizing the importance of
health examinations.

229

 

e. Developing intelligent leadership
and wise followership among the
players.

f. Conducting activities on a sound
competitive basis.

g. Exemplifying those traits which
she tries to develop in others.

3. The player is responsible for her

own conduct as shown through:

3. Intelligent health practices.

b. Courtesy, fair play and good
sportsmanship.

c. High quality of leadership within
her own group.

d. Emotional control in all game

situations.
e. Playing to the best of her ability.

Health

Provisions must be made for care-
ful supervision of the health of all
players.

a. Participants must have periodic
health examinations.

b. Written permission from a physi-
cian should be required after serious
illness or injury.

c. First-aid supplies should be avail-
able at practices and games.

d. Participation during the men-
strual period should be determined on
the basis of individual differences.

e. Equipment and facilities should
be hygienic and safe.

f. Players should be removed from
activity if injured, over-fatigued or
showing evidence of emotional insta—

bility.

Publicity

A planned program of publicity
should present interesting information
concerning the program, its standards,

aims and outcomes. The publicity
should be carefully interpreted to news-
papers, communily leaders, players
and their associates. Publicity should
stress:

a. The recreational and social values
of sports, rather than the winning of
championships.

l). Achievements of the groups and
teams, rather than those of individuals.

Types of Competition

The method of organizing competi-
tion must be determined in terms of
desirable outcomes. The guides to con-
structive competition are that the pro-
gram of athletics shall offer equal
opportunity to all in terms of in-
dividual ability, that it shall be wide
in range, that it shall be adapted to
the needs and interests of the partici-
pants and that it shall be honestly and
expertly led.

a. Intraniural—Competition of
groups playing one another within
their school, within their industrial
group or within their organization.

This type of competition should have.
priority in regard to facilities, time
and leadership because it serves the
greatest number of players.

b. Extramural—Competition involv-
ing a group or team from one school,
industrial group or organization play-
ing with a group or team from another
school, industrial group or organiza-
tion.

Types of informal extramural com-
petition are:

1. Sports Days—An occasional event
in which several schools, industrial
groups or organizations come together
——-often playing more than one activity

——-and each school, industrial group or
organization bringing two or more
groups of players.

2. Play Days—A very informal type
of competition. In this, players of the
participating schools or clubs are
divided among color teams. This type
of event is particularly suitable for
high school groups and for individual
sports activities.

3. Telegraphic Meets—Teams com-
pete with each other by establishing
records against time or for score,
while performing in their own loca-
tions. Such records are sent to a central
committee for comparison. Archery,
pistol and rifle shooting, swimming
events, bowling and track and field are
adaptable to this plan.

4. Informal Extramural Competition
"Occasional games played toward the
end of the intramural season. These
may be between intramural winners
or two teams selected from intramural
players. In contrast is the “varsity
type,” in which a small, highly-
selected grOUp plays a series of games
with similar teams from a number of
schools.

No one type of competitive organi-
zation can be designated as the ap-
proved form. The method of organizing
competition must be determined by the
desirable possibilities it provides——
not by the type into which it can be
classified.

The one purpose of athletics for
girls and women is for the good of

those who play.

Reprinted by permission of the American
Association for Health, Physical Education
and Recreation, Washington, D.C.

 

\/ Did you enjoy your summer vacation?

\/ Were you one of the lucky millions who visited State or National Parks?

\/ Did you travel by motor, trailer, bicycle, foot—or

\/ Were you on a camping trip?
\/ V‘thre did you stay? How much did it cost?

\/ What was your most memorable experience?

These are just a few of the many questions RECREATION would like to have you
answer. Please send in your account of your SUMMER VACATION 1951. Perhaps

publication of your adventures will serve to inspire stay-at-homes and members of the

“I’ll-never-go~thcre-again’

in 1952.

230

9

brigade to have a more satisfying recreation summer

RECREATION

SOCIA I.

S

‘
‘4

GA)"

 

=0 00: do :L::::0I:MN 00 2:: 000:” >105: 05.0: 0:00.05.
0800:. :00 00:00:00.
0:00.:0m. :05.
> 0000. %0::m::0:w. 00.
0055:?

.25 0:05:00 0000 0 00:050. 00: :0020 0 05:05 0:50 :5 :00?
00%:0m. 00 0:5 50.20. a: 0.0 :H0€:0m 0 :0:0:05 0: 0 0000: :5 000 :0
:::::0 0.70 000.: :0 :05... :00 000:000 :5 @0005. 0:5 005:: 0:00: :0 0
:0003. 05:50 00:. :0 :00::0::0m :50. :5:. 2:: :0:0:m :00: :05 :0 ::5
000200.. .25 50: :H:0:n :0 :00::0::0m :5 50:0: :0 :0 50:5 :5: 0:5 :0
:0:0m :05 2:0 :50. 5:: :000:. :<:0m: 0: :5 :5::0:05 2:: 00: 00::00
:.:m 00: 0:: 05:: 0:0 :5 00:05:. 2:: :55 1.0.7: 700:0.

0005mm: 0:. CSOHOmmOQIM60 3:: 000:“ 0:00:00 05:0:
0:00.05.

.3000: 3:000

00:00:00.

0:030: :05.
0. 00:0. 0:

00:505.

000 :5500 0:005 :5 @005 :3. 0000:0m 0 00:: 0: 005005 0500:
:5 0:55 0: M0005 00: 00%:0m 2: 500:5: :55 005005 0005000:
00: : :0000 :50: :0 :50 05000:... .25 000: :5500 5:00 :0 M0000
5:00: :5 00:0: :0 00: :0 :0:: 2:5:50 :5 :0 lmr: 00. 00:.

.25 0.5:: :m :0 :5 08:50 0: :5 :00: 0: 5Mm 2:50 :5 5:505
05 500:5:. :: :5 :00: 05 00050009 :5 M50: 55:50 :5 005005
00050009 :00 000:000 :5 000: :5500. :5 005:: 0500 :05 :00: 00:05
0000:0m :5 0050000 00 :0 7:00. 00%:0m :>0: : :0000 :50: 05000:...

:: :0 0:00 000:00:0m :0 :5 :5500 2:00 :0000.: r002 :5 55:: ::
v.00 0:50 00: 0:000 :5 005005 00 :50 500:5 00: :0000 :55. 25::
0:50 ::0r :5: :05 :50 0005::0m :0 :0 «1:: 2:00:50 :5: 05
205000: 0: 0005000:...

0:: 0—. :w<0=.wI.M..00 2:: 50:” >00. 00:050. 0: 0:00.05.
09:50:. :00 00. 3:000 00:0-
050. 0:00:00. :05.
E5 00. :00 000-0550.

. 00..

.25 :00: 00:5 000 0: :5 @0005 :0 :0:: 0 :0:0: 3:: :0:0 0:000:05.
0::0 300:0:0m:00.0 :000 00 :5 005::0. .25 @000: :50 07020 :0:00
:5: 0000.50. 0: :5 :0::0: 3:: 2:05: :505 :5 0:900:05 0: :5 m5.
5:03. 0: :5 .:.50003:. .25 :000: 0:0:05 :00:. 5000 :00r:0m 00 :00:
0500:05. :00 000 M0000 0:00:50 :5 :0:::.0 000:0: 000:5: :0 :5 035:.
0.577700: 00:50. :0 00 0:: 0a 050 000500.. .

20:0 :0 :5 :05—l.” :00: 0:05 :5 m005:03:.m 0500:05 :0 0 5:50.
0:. :5 0:070:50 :: :5 5:5: :0 >. ::5 00050:. 2:: :5 0::“ w. 05.:
O. 0::“ U. 050” 00: 00 00 90.00%: :5 05:55:.

 

 

500350 :00 n3:-

WGO-FF ®>7nuwm

5.

w
0
m
&

 

€500.05 0 €10? :0 an...

m:00:0:0 :::.:0 @0050. :55 55:5 05 :05 :3: 000 0: :20 :50:05
€:::: :5 50: 0: :5 m50:0 m00mm:0m :5 00:0:00. m:0:.: 000 00:
«00.: :005 0 :50: ::05 Sour:0m :0 :5 00000:“ «00:: :0: :00: 0:00:
0: :0000. M0005 :005 0 :0<0:.::0 0: :55 020 0:05: :5: 05 000500
:0 :30

14:00:.0 E5 O:J..w|:.~00 2:: 000:“ 05.. 500:. 05:0:
0:00.05.

0:000: 3500 00.
3503.. 0:00:00.

0:00:90. :05.

> 00:0: 50:00. 00: :05 000:0:00: £01: 00 :05 55:: :0M0:5H. €55
:5 00:0: 50:00. :0 00: 0: :5 0005. :5 M0005 :00::0 0:50 :5 0005
0: 0 0:30 £250 :5 5:0:00. :5 000550: 00050 ::::.050: 0:::00 00:
:5 00:0: 50:0: r0020 2:50 :5 0.:m:0: 0:3V :000 :0000 0005:.

.25 0:00 :0 :0 0005 0 0:3. 2:0 :05 £005 5:05 :5 1%: 000.
m005 o: :5 0:00 0::50 000:: :5“ 202 Macaw. 202 00.5000. w00000
>500. m00 :000. M00 :4500500. :A00m00 0:3: H00 >0M050. 2:00:00
0:3: 05070000 0:3: m:. H.005. 20:: 2050. m:. :000:. m0: >0:00:0.
550:: 0:3: H000: €027. m00 U5m0. O50: 203:0. H.00m :500?

00: 00 50:0.

... M05005: :0. 0030:0050 :55 00050 :2. 058.0000. :0. 200.00015 H00:
00: 25:00:00 <000m. 0». 0». 300. 500500.059 7.05. <0}. 3&0.

 

G.- DIES

S01‘IAL

 

80:02.08 :2: 08: 3:03 8:82 :88 2: 8.: 0m mzm :2:—0:
:30 mm: :0 0:880 2: :0 #8:: :08: 8 08:: 2:02: 8888800
2: £82: 8 80.88 0 H. 88:: 2: :0 0:0 :3 :0::£::00 80888
8 88882:: 0: 038 mm 0: .88: :0 mum 8:: 2: 8 3—00— 8:8—
2: :2:: :2: 0m 8:: 28:88 8:8: :58 2: 8:088 :88 0: :8
:8 0: 888:3:00 2: .8: mm 8:: 0: £080 2E. 88:: 2: :0 8:0 :3
8:83 38:8: 8888 w 08:: 0: 03: mm :5: :888: mm: 0: z
8808 2— .88m :0 000mm 8:: 2: :0 8:83 83 8:3 w:E2::0E
.0: .: 8 80— 0: :880: 28:: 2: :0 :8 08:0: 8:: 2: 8:::
.:00 .388: ::8 .88: :0 002: 2: 8:88: 8:8: :::: 2;

.mE 8: 82888 2: :2: 8m:0_30:v_8 888:3:00 m2 ::8
:22: 08:3 2:5: “my—8 2— .88: 2: m:m:_0w:: 82:3? 2.2:: 2:
mm 302: 8:8.— :8 88 mm: 88.0 888.8: m:— 8588 : 8888
h28 “:0 9—08 :2: 03 .EE 0: : 8:2— :8 .88: 2: 8—0: .88:
:0 :28 8 :0 8:088 :82: 8 88:3 38:: 2: :0 :08m .888 88
m3 :.m3 :28: :020: 8 80.: :8: 0: .830: 2: m2— 2_ :2: m:8:w
2: £0: 8:8: :28 25. 8:08 2: 0: :305— 8: mm 088:2:00
2: 8n— .08.8:0::00 mm: :8 8:8: :58 8 mm 22: 28: £2: :_
:28: :8: :08m
2:5 :8
J81 .8888 5:830. 80::

.8283 2:8 882 0.: “:8: E3 :0 WISEHEMH

:88 .88 :88 E3 8: ::8 2.88280 :m :0» 03»: :2—8 8:3
:07? .8388 E3 2— h:::0m 8 3 208:: :0::8:m 08: 0: :88:
:8— 2: :0 2:8 8: mm 88:08:00 2: 8;: 0m n:80: 2: :: :0mm:::00
3.8 mm 22: : .R..w:::m0: _ :8 80:3 0.?“ 08—8 2— 8:3 “:8: E3
.8:th 2: 80:3 0: :88: 2: mm :2_m:8_ 8 88% 08: 0: :88:
:8— 2: :2: 830:“.— .88.88=00 2: 820080 E :0» 0.5:. .88
888: 2: :2:: 8: 80:8: 8 0:0: 83 2 22:8: H 8 88m

:0: 09. :0:8:v 2: 5:3 w:::8: 8:: 25. 3—2.: 2: mm mEB

.28: 80:80 2: 8:— 83m 8885:8200 2—H. 8:588: H :8
80:3 0.?“ 08—8 :2: .888: 2: 260%: 88 0; E .0: 8 8» 9:8
88:28:00 23. hR..mu_0080 :m :0: 0;? i8 :2: :8. 88: :2 8
8.»: m3. 828.: :80 0: 23:8: H 8 88m :0» 0D: $5me :8 :80:
0:: E 0:80: 8085: 0: 95:8: 8058: 2: :0 28 :3 3.88
28: 2; .8 wEom 98:3 08 #:80: 2— 8 w8— 8 8:.“ .988
2: 0: :08: m:— :._:u 8 :80: 80: 2: 0:: cm 808 mm: 820 8::
88:28:00 2; 210:5: 2: 30:”.— 0:3 0:80: 03: 88: 30280

88:
222.83 9.80: :8 :8; :83:
88:81 28.6 0.82 0.: “:8: E3 :0mrl802180

)

me

1..

(Fold Along Th

Ali: .02:

:80 2: 8: 0:3
880: 2: 8:8 be8$0EEm 83w
2: 8:: 28:: mm: 8083 088:0:
.:00 2: 08: 0: 8: 8.80m 25.

:80 2: 8: 0:3
£2 :5: .80 mm: 0: : 8—0: “88—:
2: a: 8—08 8: :25. 2:: 8 8
0:0 .83: 2: :2:: 8:5: :8: m:—
883 :080: :80 8:: 28:8: 2—
h:80: 2: 0: 8.88: 2— :25»

 

.800: 2: 883 0: 8:8 :80 2: :08: 8: 0:3
:2 0: 03: 0: :2: :8 82m 2: :0 no: :0 :80 a 88—: .033 8 :2::
:30: 8:8: 88—: 8 0088 :8 0: :2: 2:20 38:: 2: :0 0:0

._8:wmm 8 8%: 0:3 a“88:82:00 :0_800:00 8 88. 28: m3?

:80 8 :8 838:: A:
2:: 2:83
.8888 :2 80:4
88:83
:00. 8 3:8 80:: “:8: E3 :0 Fluimhrowsm h OFF

.32: 2: :0 8:0 :0808 03: m::::.~ 0_:::: 2: :m 28
8808:: 2: :8 82:00 2: :833 8:088 :0808 03: 2: 882
::0 :2 2: :0 £088 :080..0:: 2: Sam:— 2: 0: 8:22: 03: 8:82
:0_ 2: :0 £08.: 8808:: :88: 2: :2: £088 :8 2: 80.8
:8 3mm: 2: 0: 8:088 03: 9:3 .282 2: 80.: £08.: :80:
2: 08: :8 2: 0: :8: £088 2: 80:0 :8 :0_ 2: 0: 03: 8.8
: 9:3 .:0_ 2: :8: 88:: 4:: 2: 2—8:. 8:0: mm : 30: mm mEB

.: 8 :8: :2: 3: :80 2:85:
808:: 8;: 0m 0528:: 8:088 2:8 08: 0: 0388:: m:

.03: 8 8:00 :0808
888:8 8:082 2:: 8 8 03: 3:0 .88 w:mm8:_ :3 8:08.: 2:
:8 80.8 0: 3: 0: 80088 :8 :8. 30.: 8 :: 8:088 :2 802m

.8388 2: .8: x8 ::8 a: 0.3:: :3 8: 62::088 :5. .828
-82: mm: 020m 0: m5?“ :0:: 88:: 5.3 3:288 8:: .239 :28:
2: 0.8 38:: .80» 3 .2:: :0 5:2.— 88 2:: :80 0:0 23.

.8888 8H
.838
mm 30:5 5:: 2:: szEQ
.8883 :0 838:: .3: :00: E3 :0.w|:=.=—. :35:

7amam,”

DR. LAWRENCE K. FRANK, for-
mer director of the Caroline Zachry
Institute, at New York City Youth
Council meeting: “Because today’s
children are likely to live longer and,
as adults, work shorter hours than any
previous generation, it is important
for them to develop now their own
personally satisfying ways of using
future leisure.

“Since most adults think of play
only as an escape from work, they are
likely to underestimate its importance
for children. Far from being just a
pleasant way to pass time, play is for
youngsters a process through which
they discover themselves and the world

around them.”
II II

J. B. KIRKPATRICK, Ed.D., Direc-
tor of School of Physical Education at
McGill University, in “New Trends in
Recreation Programme,” The Cana-
dian Association Bulletin for Health,
Physical Education and Recreation:
“Any program of activity which is not
solidly based upon Christian principles
will not be as fruitful as it should be.
Just as it is diflicult for a recreation
program to abide by Christian princi-
ples if it ignores the existence of the
chief agent of Christianity in the com-
munity.

“At the same time, this calls for a
reorientation of thinking on the part
of church leaders. If there is a danger
that recreation programs may ignore
Christian principles, there is an equal
danger that church authorities may
stifle a recreation program. A church
which embarks upon a recreation pro-
gram only as a necessary bribe to hold
its members is likely to meet with little
success. The church which undertakes
a recreation program because it be-
lieves in joyous and abundant living,
and wishes to share and lead the way
to such living with its members, will
meet with much greater success. The
participant in recreation evaluates his

.. Lint; ‘  
- 33"nti‘BltBESItA ' ..
 rsumus out. at 2‘s 5. 5pm.. to: Mum 1c:

 

SEPTEMBER 1951

 

experience largely in terms of the fun
and enjoyment he gets from it. It is
important that fun and enjoyment be
kept in mind as immediate objectives
in a recreation program.

“Among other things, I believe that
a church which really wishes to work
effectively in, and through, recreation
must be prepared to provide both fa-
cilities and leadership comparable to
those which exist in other agencies.”

traditional

American

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

wuam's lABBES-I muuamaas
or rm: mmnunu v-smumus...pum
mp PHYSICAL EtIHES-s EQUIPMENI

 DilJllTllATll

    

Gymnasium .. .

5

mil”

0 Gymnasium Equipment

0 Telescopic Gym Seats

0 Basketball Scoreboards

0 Basketball Backstops

0 Steel Lockers. Lockerobes
"and Grade-Robes

FRED MEDART PRODUCTS,INc.

3566 DE KAlB ST.

@429

ST. lOUIS l8, M0.

For 78 Years
The Standard Of Quality,

 

233

 

Accent on Oldsters—New York City recently opened
the doors to a new day center for oldsters—its first to
be established in a public school. Designed to furnish
recreation and cultural activities for the older citizens
of the city, the center is open Tuesday and Thursday
evenings, from seven-thirty to nine-thirty p. m., under
SUpervised leadership. Poetry and painting classes, a
discussion grOUp, a glee club and an orchestra are on

the program.
* 'I l-

The Syracuse Recreation Department also has taken
steps towards increasing its services to the approximately
eighteen thousand oldsters in the community. The new
project—a recreation center exclusively for older peoplc
on a five-day-a-week basis—has been made possihle by
the Corinthian Foundation, a local philanthropic 'women’s
group, who have had the ground floor of a large building
converted into two large rooms, outfitted as a lounge and
activity area.

Under the direction of a professional staff worker from
the recreation department and a corps of volunteers from
the Corinthian Foundation and the Junior League, the
center seeks to provide recreational opportunity for men
and women nearing and just entering retirement as well
as for those who are still active but in need of recreation.

Syracuse’s center boasts an advisory board composed
of representatives from the Corinthian Foundation, Junior
League, Council on the Aging (Council of Social Agen-
cies), recreation department and participants. The pro-
gram director is responsible for the final screening of
volunteers, as well as for their orientation and training.

‘I ‘I ‘I

Variety Proves Spice to Crowds—Menomonee Falls,
Wisconsin—a community of about twenty-four hundred
eitizens—-—last year saw its summer recreation program
bring out spectators and participants of all ages for a
grand attendance total of 22,510.

234

Two months of summer playground activities are c011-
ducted at the village park five days a week. A paid rccre-
ation director, who also serves as an elementary physical
education director when school is in session, supervises a
varied program of handcrafts, sports, square and social
dancing. In addition, Special features such as the Stunt
Night, held in cooperation with the high school band; doll,
pet and hat shows; a playground picnic; and a slow and
fast pitch softball league also attract Menomonites. Last
year’s grand finale was the Olympic Field Day, with the
added treat of prizes and free refreshments donated by
local merchants.

* ‘l' ‘I

Music Appreciation—Toronto Style—Designed to help
average listeners understand music, a series of radio pro-
grams on music appreciation are being broadcast in To-
ronto and recorded by the Community Programmes Branch
of the Ontario Department of Education. Called “Stepping
Stones in Music,” the twenty-six fifteen-minute programs
trace the history of music from early folk tunes to the
present day. The script is written in informal non-technical
language and illustrated with recorded music. Discs of the
programs are being recorded from the original broadcasts
and will be available to private radio stations and music
listening groups in Ontario.

Previous radio programs produced by the Community
Programmes Branch, including a series on family recrea-
tion and foreign language talks for newcomers to Canada,
are now being used by private radio stations as a puhlic
service to their communities.

‘l' * *

Shine ’Em Up.’——A novel contest, which has hecome an
annual event in Wilson, North Carolina, was first intro-
duced last year when the Department of Recreation and
Parks sponsored a shoe shine contest for boys. Held at
the community center, the contest drew a large crowd of
the curious and the interested.

A regular shoe shine stand was placed upon the stage,
with a huge reflector set directly over it to spotlight each
contestant. The introduced each
youngster, who had a large number pinned upon his back
for easy identification. The judges—a local lawyer, news-
paper publisher and banker—based their decision upon
workmanship, rhythm and showmanship.

Participants were entered in one of two divisions: the
junior division for amateur shine boys and the profcssional
division for those who made a living at shining shoes.
Music was provided by the department’s PA system when
requested, but many of the contestants did their own hum-
ming, singing or whistling as they cracked their cloths in
rhythm. A few even tapped and jigged as they made their
rags “talk.”

A local radio station made recordings of the winners
and, after playing these over the air the next day, was be-
sieged with calls from people who hadn’t heard of the
contest or wanted it repeated.

In the new annual event, local shoe shine parlors and
barbershops will donate prizes, and boys from their rc-
spective shops will enter the competition.

master of ceremonies

RECREATION

Minimum Arts and Crafts Tools

For a recreation center workshop

IN OUR IIURRY to get things done, we sometimes overlook

the real value of the arts and crafts recreation program.
We are, for instance, tempted to use power tools to get
most of our work accomplished. Hand tools, however,
retain recreational value for our activity groups.

Recreation in arts and crafts means not only having
fun, but doing things which relax the nerves and counter-
balance everyday working tasks. If we were doing a
vocational training job, then we would use power tools
and assembly line methods. But, since recreation is our
aim, not mass production, we use the type of tools best
suited to recreational objectives. The hand tool helps us
to become more skillful with our hands and gives us
more opportunity to develop muscular coordination. The
relative simplicity of hand tool operation offers the needed
counterbalance to this highly-complex mechanized life.

These facts have been kept in mind in the listing of
tools for use on the playground or in the workshop. A
suggestion as to the quantity of each type of tool also
is given.

 

Conform exactly to official requirements.
Easily installed—sunk in the ground so
t0p is flush with surface and filled with
clay. Strongly constructed of 2”x10" planks
bolted together and faced with heavy iron.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHUE 00.

4616 Grand Avenue 0 Duluth, Minnesota

SEPTEMBER 1951

Frank A. Staples

Item Quantity Item Quantity
Caping saws .............. .. 6 Paper punch .................. .. 1
COping saw blades  6pkgs. Knives .............................. .. 6
Hammers .................... .. 6 Ice picks ........................ .. 2
Scissors ...................... .. 12 Screw driver .................. .. 1
Rulers ........................ .. 12 Large pans ...................... .. 2
Pencils ...................... .. 12 Small pans .................... .. 12
Water-color brushes Pliers .............................. .. 1
(large size)  12 Cross cut saw ................  1
Medium half-roan Vise (small) .................. .. 1

files ........................ .. 6 C clamps ........................ .. 6
Hacksaw .................... .. 1 Wooden bench pins  6
Hand drill ................ .. 1 Mallet .............................. .. 1
Drills Tin snips ........................ .. 1

(various sizes) ,,,,,, ., 3 Mixing spoons .............. .. 6
Needles ...................... .. 3pkgs. Flat 1" Oil brushes ...... .. 3
Common pins .......... .. lpkg. '

The above list is for a general, well-rounded, inexpensive
program and does not include tools for such crafts as
leatherwork, raised metal work, loom weaving and pottery.

These require specially trained leaders, who would know
which tools they need.

FRANK STAPLES is director of arts and crafts for the NRA.

Adjustment of Subdivisions

The control of suhdivisions by the planning commission
in Salt Lake City makes possible the adjustment of any
proposed subdivision to the master plan. The commission
can not only require that streets be provided in the lay-
out of the subdivision, but can require the subdivider to
dedicate other open spaces shown on the master plan. When
this plan calls for more open space than the subdivider
can reasonably be asked to dedicate, the integrity of the
plan can still be preserved by requiring the subdivider
to reserve the land desired for acquisition by the city.

The planning commission is requiring the developers of
all major subdivisions to dedicate to the city a small “tot
lot.” The city then furnishes the necessary play equipment
which consists mainly of a sand box, teeters, slides, small
swings and benches for mothers. Three such tot lots were

acquired in 1950.

Dedication of other open space for neighborhood and
major parks or to preserve natural or historic community
assets, as set forth in the master plan of the city, is re-
quired by the subdivision control ordinance adopted in

January, 1950.
235

-_w--—_.H. J. II.

 

Junior Baseball Rule Book
The Hillerich and Bradsby Com-

pany of Louisville, Kentucky, makers
of Louisville Slugger Bats, has added
a new member
to its family of
sports rule books.
This one—on
little league base-
ball—is available
through dealers
or direct from the
company at ten
cents per copy.
The
tains seventy-two
pages of rules
and illustrations,
written in a style and language com-

prehensible to the average young
fan.

I 

book icon-

 

official Rules 

Guide to Laundry Savings

The Paul T. Wiegand Laundry Ma-
chinery Company, 143 Perry Street,
Buffalo 4, New York, announces that
it has available a new booklet, “A
Guide to Laundry Savings,” outlining
the company’s “Package Plan” laundry
units for gymnasiums, schools and bath
houses interested in installing a com-
mercial-type laundry. Paul Wiegand,
president of the company, states that
many of these institutions now operat-
ing their own commercial-type laun-
dries have realized considerable sav-
ings from the operation.

The “Package Plan” offered includes
a commercial-type laundry washer,
drying tumbler, extractor and flatwork
ironer. The cost of these complete
units starts at $2495, with a capacity
of two hundred fifty pounds per eight-
hour day. Other units are available
to handle up to twenty-five hundred
pounds per day.

236

\Vhite Arrow Football
One of the latest additions to the
Sunruco athletic ball family of the
Sun Rubber Company, Barberton,
Ohio, the White Arrow Football is a

boon to football games played under
the lights.

Official in size and weight, it is
made of patented, exclusive Vita-Weld,
multiply construction of white Sunite

 

rubber. It is said to be impervious
to water; and it will not rot or give
’way at the seams, kicks and passes
with balanced accuracy and meets toe
and hand perfectly.

Crafts Catalog

As an introduction to its ncw and
complete crafts division, the Fry Plastic
Company of Los Angeles has issued a
twenty-four-page catalog that is an
ideal ordering guide for calnps,
schools, churches, Scouts and for the
beginner or the accomplished hobby-
ist.

The new Fry Crafts division is rc-
ported to be another step in the growth
of a firm that has become one of the
largest hobby organizations in the
country. It is concerned with hundreds
of items, in dozens of different crafts,
and offers a single source for all crafts
supplies.

Send for your free catalog by
writing to the Crafts Division, Depart-
ment E, Fry Plastics Company, 7826
South Vermont, Los Angeles, Cali-

fornia.

Chlorine Tablets for Pools

The Steine and Maley Company,
3604 South Morgan Street, Chicago,
Illinois, is manufacturing a new chlo-
rine tablet which may replace the use
of chlorine gas for swimming pools.
According to reports, the United States
Government has purchascd fifty~five
thousand tons for Anny, Navy and
Marine use. In Illinois, Joliet and Cen-
tralia pools are being used as guinea
pigs this summcr. The tablets sell for
thirty dollars per one hundred pounds.

Shqueboard \Veight

Acclaimed by players for its greater
speed and visibility is the ncwly-
developed S p a r k l e r shufflehoard
weight, with balanced chrome steel
base and red or blue top of durablc
Tenite plastic. The shatterproof top
is molded with a threaded shaft which
screws securely into the base. Diamond
cut, the plastic catches and reflects
light as the weight spins. A center
insert, cemented to the underside of

the Tenite cap, further identifies rcd
and blue weights as “A” or “C.” The

 

lustrous top section gives the standard
weight a slight additional height,
makes identification easy for both
players and spectators at distances up
to forty feet.

Sparkler shufHeboard weights are
manufactured by the Amcrican Shuffle-
board Company, 210 Patcrson Plank
Road, Union City, New Jersey. Tops
are molded by the Boonton Molding
Company, Boonton, New Jersey, of
cellulose acetate butyrate Tenite, a
product of the Tennessee Eastman
Company, Division of Eastman Kodak
Company, Kingsport, Tennessee.

RECREATION

2mm NEWS

Two New Playgrounds
United Nations headquarters on the

East River in New York is going to in-
clude, as part of its internationalestab-
lislnnent, a playground for children. A
plot one hundred by one hundred
forty feet at Forty-eighth Street is be-
ing set aside for this special purpose.
The UN is building, and will operate,
the recreation area, complete with
slides, swings and sandboxes. Not only
the local community will be benefited,
but the hundreds of thousands of visi-
tors from all over the world, intent up-
on seeing the UN in operation, will be
able to leave their children for super.
vised play.

In one of its editorials, the New
York Herald Tribune commented:
“This is an intimate and personal con-
tribution that warms the heart. It is
more than a gesture towards solving a
local problem. The act of remembering
the needs of children next door to
world deliberations is one that speaks
deeply to all pe0ple.”

‘I' * *

A new play center with modern
equipment recently was donated to El-
lis Island for the children waiting to
enter this country. At present, many
of these boys and girls are from dis-
placed persons’ camps in Europe.

The center is the gift of the National
Council of Jewish Women to honor the
late Anna M. Kaufman, a council staff
member who worked with children
over a twenty-five-year period at this
location. The structure housing the
play area has just been remodeled by
the United States Government along
colorful, attractive lines.

Soviet Imposes Rules

Russia has applied strict curbs on
the public behavior of children under
sixteen years of age to prevent uvenile
delinquency.

Parents will be fined two hundred
ruhles (nominally six dollars) for each
violation by their children of the fol-
lowing rules:

1. No buying of liquor or tobacco.

2. No children on public streets
after ten p.m. unless accompanied by
their parents.

3. Children’s entertainments must

SEPTEMBER 1951

end by nine p.m.

4. Movie and theatre attendance
(luring vacation time restricted to Sun-
days and holidays unless group leaders
organize mass attendance.

Relaxation for Servicemen

Servicemen in Atlanta, Georgia,
may now relax at the Armed Forces
Service Guild Lounge during off-duty
hours, thanks to a group of generous
Atlanta women.

The lounge, located on famous
Peachtree Street, and near the heart of
the city, was furnished, decorated and
is being maintained by the Service
Guild, Incorporated, an organization
made up of 175 women. They have
employed a full-time hostess and are
underwriting all expenses.

The facility is open daily from nine-
thirty a.m. to nine-thirty p.m. and
from two-thirty to nine-thirty p.m. on
Sundays. Here servicemen can congre-
gate, dance with the junior hostesses
who are on hand every evening, write
letters, read or watch television shows.
Refreshments are served gratis.

The lounge also furnishes an ideal
place for traveling servicemen and
women to rest and wait for their con-
nections out of the city.

Mrs. Simon Selig, president of the
Service Guild, has issued a statement
in which she declares that the guild
will sponsor the lounge just as long as
there is a need for it. “We want the
serviceman and woman to feel at home
here,” she adds. “We are going to do
our best to make it a home away from
home.”

Lieutenant General John R. Hodge,
Commanding General, Third Army, in
formally opening the lounge, pointed
out that healthful recreation is essen-
tial to the serviceman and praised the
Atlanta women highly for their gener-
osity and their initiative in creating
this facility.

Recreation and Park
Yearbook

$1.50 Just out!

National Recreation Association
315 Fourth Avenue New York 10, N. Y.

 

 

 

o
athletic bulls
You can depend upon famous

Wilson INDESTRUCTO
Rubber Covered Athletic Balls
to give the acme in performance
and the maximum in long life.
No rubber covered balls

made can outwear them—

or give more satisfactory
service in any way. Sold by
leading sporting goods

dealers everywhere.

 [Dwain

TODAY IN SPORTS EQUIPMENT

 

Wilson Sporting Goods Co., Chicago
Branch offices in New York, San francisco
and 26 other principal cities
(A subsidiary of Wilson & Ca., inc.)

237

 

Magazines and Pamphlets

 

INVISIBLE MENDING. Culver Products
Company, Culver City, California.
$1.00.

CAMPING MAGAZINE 1951 ANNUAL BEF-
ERENCE AND BUYING GUIDE ISSUE.
Galloway Publishing Company,
Plainfield, New Jersey.

PUBLIC RECREATION IN NORTH ALA-
BAMA, Alabama State Planning
Board, Montgomery, Alabama.

HIRES THROWS A SQUARE DANCE. The
Charles E. Hires Company, Phila-

delphia, Pennsylvania. $.10.

MODERN DANCE BUILDING AND TEACH-
ING LESSONS, Aileene Lockhart. Wil-
liam C. Brown Company, Dubuque,

Iowa. $3.00.

FOR VOLUNTEERS WHO INTERVIEW,
Kathleen Ormsby Larkin. Volunteer
Bureau Welfare Council of Metro-
politan Chicago, Illinois.

CHILDREN IN THE FAMILY; BIVALS AND
FRIENDS, Edith G. Neisser. Bureau Of
Publications, Teachers College, Co-
lumbia University, New York. $.60.

YOUR GUIDE TO WISE BUYING. United
States Testing Company, Incorpo-
rated, Hoboken, New Jersey. Free.

HOW TO BE PREPARED. Girl Scouts of
the United States of America, New

York.

SERVICES OF THE NATIONAL GIRL
SCOUT ORGANIZATION TO ITS LOCAL
UNITS. Girl Scouts of the United

States of America, New York.

TOWARD IMPROVED CHEST-COUNCIL
AGENCY RELATIONS, prepared by a
committee sponsored jointly by
Community Chests and Councils of
America, Incorporated, and the Na-
tional Social Welfare Assembly. As-
sociation Press, New York. $.75.

YOUR CHILD’S LEISURE TIME, Mildred
Celia Letton. Bureau of Publica-
tions, Teachers College, Columbia

University, New York. $.60.

AT WORK WITH YOUNG ADULTS, Allen
S. Ellsworth. Association Press, New

York. $1.50.

FOLK DANCE GUIDE, Paul Schwartz.

Folk Dance Guide, P. O. Box 342,
Cooper Station, Ncw York. $.50.

238

CIIILDREN’S CAMPS IN NEw YORK
STATE. State of New York Depart-
ment of Commerce, Albany, New

York.

1951 DIRECTORY OF VOCATIONAL
COUNSELING AGENCIES. National Vo-
cational Guidance Association, St.

Louis, Missouri. $1.00.

PHYSICAL EDUCATION FOR CHILDREN
OF ELEMENTARY SCHOOL AGE. A
report of the National Conference

on Physical Education for Children

of Elementary School Age. The Ath-
letic Institute, Chicago, Illinois. $.50.

THE FIRST BOOK OF FELTCRAFT. Fun
with Felt Corporation, New York.
$.50.

FREE TIME IN THE ARMED FORCES. The
President’s Committee on Religion
and Welfare in the Armed Forces.
United States Government Printing

thce, Washington, D.C. $.25.

SQUARE DANCE CALLS FROM TEXAS,
edited by Marguerite Muchmore. T.

S. McDanicl, Jr., Bellaire, Texas.
$.50.

TIIE BOARD MEMBERS” MANUAL—How
TO PRODUCE AND USE IT IN BOARD
EDUCATION, Charlotte K. Demorest.
National Publicity Council, New

York. $1.00.

PHYSICAL ACTIVITIES PROGRAM FOR
WOMEN AND GIRLS, 1951. Chicago
Park District, Chicago, Illinois.

HIGH SCHOOL INTRAMURAL PROGRAM,
William W. Scheerer. Burgess Pub-
lishing Company, Minneapolis, Min-
nesota. $2.00.

VISUAL MATERIALS IN SAFETY EDUCA-
TION, Supplement 11. National Com-
mission on Safety Education, Na-
tional Education Association, Wash-
ington, D.C. Single copy, thirty
cents; two to nine copies, ten per
cent reduction; ten to ninety-nine
copies, twenty-five per cent reduc-
tion; one hundred or more copies,
thirty-three-and-one-half per cent re-
duction.

Books Received

ADMINISTRATION OF HEALTH EDUCA-
TION AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION,
THE, Jesse Feiring Williams and
Clifford Lee Brownell. Fourth edi-

tion. W. B. Saunders Company,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. $3.75.

ALBERT’S ZOO, Jane Werner. Simon
and Schuster, New York. $.25.

ALICE IN WONDERLAND FINDS THE GAR-
DEN 0F LIVE FLOWERS, told by Jane
Werner. Simon and Schuster, New

York. $.25.

AMERICAN PLANNING AND CIVIC AN-
NUAL, edited by Harlean James.
American Planning and Civic Asso-
ciation, Washington, D.C.

ART OF GROUP DISCIPLINE, THE, Bu-
dolph M. Wittenberg. Association
Press, New York. $3.00.

BERTRAM AND HIS MARVELOUS ADVEN-
TURES, Paul T. Gilbert. Dodd, Mead
and Company, New York. $2.50.

BUGS BUNNY’S BOOK, told by Annie
North Bedford. Simon and Schus-

ter, New York. $1.50.

COMPETITIVE SPORTS IN SCHOOLS AND
COLLEGES, Harry A. Scott. Harper
and Brothers, New York. $5.00.

CREATIVE HANDS, Doris Cox and Bar-
bara Warren. Second edition. John
Wiley and Sons, New York. $6.50.

DEVELOPING DEMOCRATIC HUMAN RE-
LATIONS. First Yearbook. American
Association for Health, Physical
Education and Recreation, Washing-

ton, D.C. $4.25.

FLOWERS AND TABLE SETTINGS, Julia
S. Berrall. The Studio Publication
Incorporated, in association with
Thomas Y. Crowell Company, New

York. $5.00.

GAMES FOR GROWNUPS, Marguerite
Kohl and Frederica Young. A. A.
Wyn, Incorporated, New York.

$2.50.

RECREATION I

 

Placement Pointers
on Volunteer Service

Prepared by Robbie Hunt Burton.
Association of Junior Leagues of
America, New York.

Here is something from which public
recreation leaders, or any recreation
leaders who are seeking ways in which
to work successfully with volunteers,
well can profit.

One phase of the subject is concise-
ly covered in this attractive pamphlet,
and the ways of work presented in it
have been tested and drawn from a
fund of practical eXperience, for
volunteer service to the community
has been an essential part of the
Junior League program from the very
beginning. The author’s clear descrip-
tions of the interviewing of volunteers
and of the other activities and re-
sponsibilities of the placement com-
mittee are excellent. Samples of cards

and slips for record keeping are
included.

The Family Pleasurc Chest
Helen and Larry Eisenberg. Parthe-

11011 Press, Nashville, Tennessee. Pa-

per $1.00; Cloth $1.50.

The indefatigable Eisenbergs have
done it again! Their new book contains
more suggestions for fun for the fam-
ily——indoors, out-of-doors and even
when camping. Among the contents of
its 203 pages—including games, hand-
crafts, stunts, hobbies—you’ll find, in
addition to new ideas, old favorites
that you’ve almost forgotten. Material
for the book has been collected from
people across the country and, in leaf-
ing through it, one is apt to come
across familiar names. We note, for
instance, that R. Bruce Tom, of Ohio
State University—an old friend in rec-

SEPTEMBER 1951

new Publications

Covering the Leisure-time Field

reation—lnakes a substantial contribu-
tion to the chapter on “Homemade
Fun.” He says, “Homemade recreation
contains dynamic force that is waiting
to be harnessed for the betterment of
family life,” and follows his statement
with instructions for the making of a
number of games to be enjoyed by
home folks, friends and neighbors.

Among their own suggestions, the
Eisenbergs ask: “Why not start your
own family fun notebook? Cut, paste,
collect, mark it up with your own
ideas; lend it to others.”

Their bibliography, which covers
each section of the book, should be
helpful to those really interested, as
should be the section on family nights
at the club or church.

Sports Equipment
Selection, Care and Repair

Virginia Bourquardez and Charles
Heilman. A. S. Barnes and Com-
pany, New York. $5.00.

This is a comprehensive, concise
and detailed book that will be in-
valuable to any recreation department,
school, college, university or organiza-
tion that must buy sports equipment,
would like its budget to go far and
wants the best and most for its money.
The book covers twenty-two major and
minor sports in detail—what equip-
ment to buy, standards by which to
judge it, how it will wear, what care
it will require.

So far as we know, it is the only
book on this important subject—and
it is authoritative. It has exact descrip-
tions of the construction, materials,
standards, amounts needed and proper
care of both clothing and equipment for
archery, baseball, softball, basketball,
bowling, boxing and wrestling, fencing,

field hockey, football, golf, ice hockey,
lacrosse, tennis, badminton and squash,
skiing, soccer, volleyball, handball and
track events. Detailed analyses of the
types, properties and care of leather,
plastics, rubber, wood, light metals
and textiles add to its value.

Campfire and Council Bing
Programs
Allan A. Macfarlan. Association Press,

New York. $2.50.

Calling all camp counsellors! Here’s
the book you all look for each camp-
ing or tripping season. There are camp-
fire programs galore for boys and
girls — games, stunts, ceremonies,
quizzes.

Also included is good material on
site, equipment, costumes, fire-lighting,
magic and all the devices which make
campfire programs long-to-be-remem-
bered. Good, well-chosen material of
this sort is very hard to find, so this
book will be very welcome news!

American Indian Beadwork
W. Ben Hunt and J. F. “Buck” Bur-
shears. The Bruce Publishing Com-
pany, Milwaukee, Wisconsin. $5.00.
This is a nine-by-twelve-inch book
to allow for pages of photographic
illustrations, drawings and diagrams
and fourteen pages of four-color plates
of designs used by many of the Indian
tribes—Sioux, Ute, Apache, Zuni,
Blackfoot, Arapalo, Ojibwa and others.
The first section of the book deals
with methods and directions for doing
different types of beadwork—loomed,
sewed, rosette and so forth. Section
two shows photographs of ceremonial
costumes as well as actual beaded
pieces. Section three features fourteen
beautiful color plates of value to
craftsmen interested in design.

239

Games for Crownups
Marguerite Kohl and Frederica Young.

A. A. Wyn, Incorporated, New York.

$2.50.

These games—162 of them-—-are for
adults and teen-agers, and are a very
well-selected group. What makes this
game book different from, and bettcr
than some of, the many other good
game books is the organization of the
material, which is excellent, and the
charts which show at a glance the
location of any game, preparation
needed, number of players and the
time it takes to play.

Other charts at the end of the book
act as game classifications, so that if
a trick game is needed, there’s no
searching through the book. All that’s
necessary is to look at the chart of
trick games-—and there they all are,
with their names and page numbers!
Because of this careful organization,
the book is remarkably easy to use.

The style of writing is sprightly and
entertaining; the illustrations are
amusing. Altogether, a very excellent
addition for-your game and party
shelf. Recommended! (See “Recipes

for Fun,” page 231.)

Emotional Problems of Growing Up

0. Spurgeon English, M. D., and Stuart
M. Finch, M. D. Science Research
Associates, Chicago 4, Illinois. $.40;
three c0pies for $1.00.

Written for teachers and parents,
this forty-eight page pamphlet dis-
cusses the emotional problems of young
people, stressing the relationship be-
tween adult attitudes and the child’s
emotional growth. Dr. English is head
of the Department of Psychiatry at
Temple University Medical School and
Dr. Finch is director of the Depart-
ment of Child Psychiatry at the same
school.

Keeping Idle Hands Busy

Marion R. Spear. Burgess Publishing
Company, Minneapolis 15, Minne-
sota. $1.75.

Although this little book came out

a year ago, it is filled with so many

good ideas that we cannot resist

calling it to your attention here. The
author, incidentally, is director of the

Kalamazoo School of Occupational

Therapy, Western Michigan College of

240

Education. She has prepared her book
for the use of those “with a limited
budget who are endowed with imagi-
nation and resourcefulness.” It is
directed toward occupational thcra-
pists, teachers, leaders, housewives and
others interested in working with their
hands. It tells how to usc to advantage
discarded or waste materials or
materials salvaged in the home, and
has an excellent section on the use
of native products—acorns, corn husks,
driftwood, feathers, rushes, sand, twigs
and thorns and so on. The other sec-
tions of the book are: Cloth; Paper;

Wood.

Profile of Youth

Edited by Maureen Daly. J. B. Lippin-
cott Company, Philadelphia, Penn-
sylvania. $2.95.

What are the facts about our
15,372,000 teen-agers? What do they
themselves think about morals, reli-
gion, politics? What do they like to
eat, to wear, to do? Answers to these
questions—important for many reasons
-—are given in this frank, down-to-
earth survey of the teen-agers in this
country. Fifteen editors and re-
searchers from The Ladies’ Home
Journal took a year of travel in forty-
five states to collect this portrait of
the youth who will control America’s
future. Excellent supplementary read-
ing for those wide-awake leaders who
are constantly searching for a better
understanding of their young people.

The Art of Group Discipline

Rudolph M. Wittenberg. Association

Press, New York. $3.00.

Perhaps the best way to review this
valuable book is to quote from it. Such
quotations, taken at random, will give
an indication of the simplicity and
force of the style and, at the same time
show, in a small way, the fundamental
soundness of the text. Here are a few
thought-provoking sentences, given
without any of the many actual cases
used as illustrations:

“Discipline is a progressive process
that comes about through cooperative
action rather than imposed restric-
tions.”

“Frequently trouble arises because
we ask the children to do nothing,
which is one of the most unreasonable

requests to make of them.”

“Face the fact that discipline is a
process, not an emergency measure.”

“The leader cannot avoid taking part
in the process of discipline; he either
retards it or furthers it.”

“Don’t expect an individual to give
up a satisfaction unless he can be given
something more satisfying to take its
place.”

“The group’s choice of a natural
leader is an index of its needs and
discipline and should, therefore, be re-
spected.”

“The job of developing disciplined
citizens cannot be done within the
walls of an agency offering no more
than a good recreation program and
good will, as valuable as these are in
themselves.”

Are there any recreation leaders—or
teachers—or parents—who haven’t had
to face up to this question of disci-
pline? Remember trying to get camp
quieted down after taps? Trying to get
youngsters out of the pool when the
swimming period was over? Keeping
order backstage during the play or
pageant? Making announcements in a
noisy assembly hall? Coping with a
sullen, rude teen-ager?

Here’s a book that lays the ground-
work for better understanding and bet-
ter techniques. It reads well, is well-or-
ganized and worth careful study. It
would be a wonderful book to use as a
basis of a series of discussions in staff
meetings or in-service training periods.
We recommend that every recreation
director read it—and encourage his

staff to read it.

Please Note!

Leadership in Recreation, Gerald B.
Fitzgerald, A. S. Barnes and Com-
pany, New York. $3.50.

Reviewed in the personnel scction

of this issue, page 224.
Puppets and Bible Plays

Josie Robins and Marjory Louise

Bracher. Muhlenberg Press, Phila-

delphia. $1.25.

This simple and beautiful little book
gives careful plans for making pup-
pets out of material easy to come by,
especially ordinary spools. No special

(gift of handcraft is required. Child-

like dramatizations of well-known Bible
stories lend a lovely flavor.

RECREATION

In case you’re wondering what to do about your Halloween and Thanks-
giving celebrations, here is a list of helpful material available from the Na-
tional Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10, New York.

 

FOR HALLOWEEN

AII Set for Halloween (P 10)—Large-scale,
outdoor suggestions and smaller-scale, in—

door ideas . . . . . . . . $.15

Bring On Your Spooks (MB 1949)—Sugges-
tions for decorations and games . . $.10

Community Celebrates Halloween, The
(MP 278)—Reparts from many cities, with
suggestions for the whole community and for

neighborhood affairs . . . . . . $.15
For a Halloween Party (MB 580)—Games,
contests and fortunes for a party . . $.10

Fun for Halloween (MP 141)—Party plans
include decorations, invitations, pre—party
games, active games, quiet games, musical
activities, stories, dromotics and a good bib-
liography . . . . . . . . . $.25

Games and Stunts for Halloween (MB

787)—lncludes a dance, fortune-telling and
safarth..........$.10

Ghosts and All (MB 625)—A party plan $.10

Halloween Fun (MB 1891)—Suggested activ-
ities from various cities . . . . . $.10

Halloween Gambols (MP 169)—A short play
in which the host is none other than Mephis-

tapheles, and there are ghosts, goblins and
witches..........$.10

Halloween Party for Children, A (MB
1696)—Hause-ta-hause party with different
activities at every stop along the route $.10

Outline for Halloween (MB 2003)—Lofo-
yette, Louisiana, plans for grade parties $.10

Peter Pumpkin Eater (MP 202)—A children's
play, based upon the old nursery rhyme $.15

Terrible Ghost Story, A (MB 267)—Chills
and thrills abound in this short, but effective,
ghost story . . . . . . . . . $.10

Witches and Elves Dance (MB 2004)—Sim-
ple dances for all age groups . . . $.10

(For additional suggestions, see Bulletin F 44)

FOR THANKSGIVING

Captain's Dilemma, The (MP 89)—A ploy-
let based upon the famous courtship of
Miles Standish . . . . . . . . $.10

Children of the Americas (MP 338)—A
pageant depicting, through sang and dance,
historic periods of America . . . . $.10

Community Pageant for Thanksgiving
(MB2010) . . . . . . . . . $.10

Faith of Our Fathers (MP 46)—A Pilgrim
pageant. The first part tells of the Pilgrims,
brings out clearly the signing of the May-
flower Compact and also contains a scene of
the first Thanksgiving. The second part tells
of the faith of our fathers in modern

times . . . . . . . . . . . $.25
Family Party for Thanksgiving, A (MB
1578) . . . . . . . . . . . $.10

For a Happy Thanksgiving (Reprinted from
RECREATION) — Suggestions for a simple
harvest community night consisting of songs,
dances and considerable pageantry. Also
suggests other possibilities for harvest enter-

tainments and festivals . . . . . $.10
Fun for Thanksgiving (MB 1576)—Gomes
and decorations . . . . . . . $.10

Harvest Home Thanksgiving Party (MB
1579)—Grand fun for a family celebra-
tion . . . . . . . . . . . $.10

Plays, Pageants, Festivals and Other En-
tertainment Material for Thanksgiving

(MP 342)—A bibliography . . . . $.10

Program for Thanksgiving, A (MP 367)—
Eight tableaux with norrotars . . . $.10

Thanksgiving Ceremonial, A (MB 1421)—
Far church, school, community auditorium

use. The Earth Mother and the Earth Chil-

dren take part in a procession, followed by
groups of Pilgrims, pioneers and those who
share their offerings . . . . . . $.10

Thanksgiving Down on the Farm (MB
1892)—Decorotions and games . . $.10

Three Thanksgivings, The (MP 51)—A No-
vember humaresque of the Thanksgivings of

the past, present and future . . . . $.25
Turkeys in the Treetop (MP 407)—Gomes
and mixers for your party . . . . $.10

(For additional suggestions, see Bulletin F 45)

 

Private First Class Melvin Brown. of Mahafiey,
Pennsylvania—Medal of Honor for valor in action near Kasan. Korea, September 4,
1950. Stubbornly holding an advanced position atop a wall, Pfc. Brown stood off
attacking North Koreans until all his rifle ammunition and grenades were gone.
When last seen he was still fighting—with only an entrenching shovel—rather than
give up an inch of ground.

Never forget the devotion of Melvin Brown!

Now, this very day, you can help make safer the land he served so far “above
and beyond the call of duty.” Whoever you are, wherever you are, you can begin
buying more . . . and more . . . and more United States Defense* Bonds. For every
time you buy a bond you’re helping keep solid and stable and strong the country
for which Private Brown gave everything he had.

And remember that strength for America can mean peace for America——so that
boys like Melvin Brown may never have to fight again. "

For the sake of Private First Class Melvin Brown and all our servicemen—for
your own boy—buy more United States Defense Bonds—now. Defensc is your job,
too!

 

Don’t forget that now every Series E Bond example, that a Bond you bought for $18.75

you own automatically goes on earning can return you not just $25 but as much
interest for 20 years from date of purchase as $33.33; For your country’s security, and
instead of 10 as before. This means, for your own, buy U. S. Defense Bonds now!

‘ «0'53 Saw?ng Bow/.9 are Dye/2.93 6’01sz - Bay l/ze/Iz legzt/h/Zy/

The U. S. Government does not pay for this advertisement. It is donated by this publication in
cooperation with the Advertising Council and the Magazine Publishers of America as a public service.

 

