NOVEMBER 1951 ' 35c

 

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION

A Service Organization Supported by Voluntary Contributions

 

Executive Director, JOSEPH PRENDERGAST

 

OFFICE RS

OTTO T. MALLERY. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Chairman of the Board
PAUL MOORE, JR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .First Vice-President
MRS. OGDEN I... MILLS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sccond Vice-President
SUSAN M. LEE. .Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board
ADRIAN M. MASSIE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Treasurer
GUSTAVUS T. KIRBY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Treasurer Emeritus
JOSEPH PRENDERGAST . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Secretary

BOARD OF DIRECTORS

 

F. W. H. ADAMS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .New York, N. Y. MRS. CHARLES V. HICROR . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Michigan City, Ind.

F. GREGG BEMIS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Boston, Mass. MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Bellport. N. Y.

MRS. ROBERT WOODS BLISS. . . . . . . . . . . . . .Washington, D. C. SUSAN M. LEE. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .New York, N. Y.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMMER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Jacksonville, Fla. OTTO T. MALLERY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Philadelphia, Pa.

WILLIAM H. DAVIS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .New York, N. Y. CARL F. MILLIREN. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Augusta, Me.

HARRY P. DAvISON . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .New York, N. Y. MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Woodbury, N. Y.

GAYLORD DONNELLEY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Chicago, Ill. PADL MOORE, Jr... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jersey City, N. J.

MR5. PAUL GALLAGHER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Omsha, Nebr. JOSEPH PRENDERcAST . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .New York, N. Y.

ROBERT GARRETT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Baltimore, Md. MRS. SIGMUND STERN . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .San Francisco. Calif.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Oyster Bay, N. Y. GRANT TITSWORTH . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Noroton. Conn.

AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Seattle, Wash. MRS. WILLIAM VAN AIE ‘. . . . . . . . . . . '. .I’hiladelphia, Pa.

MRS. NORMAN HARROWER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Fitchburg, Mass. J. C. WALSH. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Yonkers, N. Y.

FREDERICK M. WARBLIRG . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .New York, N. Y.

 

HEADQUARTERS STAFF

Executive DirectDr’s Odie:
GEORGE E. DICRIE THOMAS E. RIVERS
ROSE JAY SCHWARTZ ARTHUR WILLIAMS

WALDO R. HAINSWORTH

CDrrespondence and CDnsultation
Service
VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN
GERTRUDE BORCHARD LORAINE WILLIAMS

Defense-Related Activities
GEORGE T. ADAMS HELENA G. HOYT

Editorial Department
DOROTHY DONALDSON SONIA RACHLIN

MARY QDIRR

Personnel Service
WILLARD C. SDTHERLAND ALFRED B. JENSEN
MARY GUBERNAT

Research Department

DAvID J. DDBOIs
ELIzAnETH CLIFTON

GEORGE D. BUTLER
MURIEL MCGANN

WDrk with VDlunteers

E. BEATRICE STEARNS
MARGARET DANKWORTH

Field Department

CHARLES E. REED JAMES A. MADISON

Service to States . . . . . .ROBERT R. GAMBLE

Areas and Facilitieh-Plartning and Surveys
H. C. HUTCHINS ALAN B. BURRITT

Katherine F. Barker Memorial
Secretary for Warner: and Girls
HELEN M. DAUNCEY

industrial Recreation . . . . . .C. E. BREWER

FRANCES WHITE LEE

Recreation Leadership Training Courses

RUTH EHLERS ANNE LIvINGSTON
MILDRED SCANLON FRANK A. STAPLES
GRACE WALKER

 

DISTRICT REPRESENTATIVES

New England District

RICHARD S. WESTGATE . . . . . .Portland, Me.
Middle Atlantic District
JOHN W. FAUST . . . . . .East Orange, N. J.

GEORGE A. NESBITT. . . .New York, N. Y.

Great Lakes District

JOHN J. COLLIER . . . . . . . . . .Toledo, Ohio
ROBERT L. HORNEY . . . . . . .Madison, Wis.

Affiliate Membership

AEliate membership in the National
Recreation Association iS open to all non-
profit private and public organizations
whose function is wholly or primarily the
provision or promOtion of recreation serv-
ices or which include recreation as an im-
portant part of their total program and
whose cooperation in the work of the asso-
ciation would, in tbe opinion of the asso-
ciation’s Board of Directors, further the
ends of the national recreation movement.

Southern District

MISS MARION PREECE. . . . .Alexandria, Va.
RALPH VAN FLEET . . . . ..Clearwater, Fla.
WILLIAM M. HAY . . . . . . .Nashville, Tenn.

Midwest District

ARTHUR TODD. . . . . . . . .Kansas City, Mo.
HAROLD LATHROP . . . . . . . . .Denver, Colo.

Active Associate Membership

Active associate membership in the
National Recreation Association is open to
all individuals who are actively engaged
on a full-time or part-time employed basis
or as volunteers in a nonprofit private or
public recreation organization and whose
cooperation in the work of the association
would, in the opinion of the association’s
Board of Directors, further the ends of the
national recreation movement.

SDuthwest District

HAROLD VAN ARSDALE . . . . . . .Dallas, Tex.

Pacific NDrthwest District

WILLARD H. SHDMARD. . . . .Seattle, Wash.

Pacific Sou thwest District

LYNN S. RODNEY . . . . .Los Angeles, Calif.

 

Contributors

The continuation of the work of the
National Recreation Association from year
to year is made possible by the splendid
cooperation of several hundred volunteer
sponsors throughout the country. and the
generous contributions of thousands of sup-
porters of this movement to bring health,
happiness and creative living to the boys
and girls and the men and women of
America. If you would like to ioin in the
support of this movement, you may send
your contribution direct to the association.

————————_—-————_—

The National Recreation Association is a nation-

cies, public and private, to thc end that cvery child

wide, nonprofit, nonpolitical and nonsectarian civic
organization, established in 1906 and supported by
voluntary contributions, and dedicated to the serv-
ice of all recreation executives, leaders and agen-

in America shall have a place to play in safety and
that every person in America, young and old, shall
have an opportunity for the best and most satisfy-
ing use of his expanding leisure time.

For further information regarding the association’s services and membership, please write to the
Executive Director, National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10, New York.

 

 

 

RECREATION l

These trim, strong Porter backstops
swing up to the ceiling to “clear the
air" for main court play, and to give
spectators unobstructed vision.

   

In the men’s gymnasium at North Texas State Teachers’
College, Denton, the practice courts are equipped with
four Porter 221B Balcony-type Swing-up Basketball
Backstops and 2083 Rectangular Plywood Backboards.

at leading gym: from cowl-£04045! t/ae r/aoz're 2': Porter

Texas fakes 10 ?or er, Too

Whether it’s "deep in the heart of Texas” or almost anywhere
in the U.S.A., you’ll find Porter basketball backstops and
gymnasium apparatus in use in leading schools, universities,
clubs and community houses. The reason is that Porter
apparatus looks right, works right, is right. It goes With
modern or modernized gymnasium buildings because it is .
up-to-date in every detail. Yet, Porter equipment is backed J./
by nearly a century of quality manufacturing experience. _ " I

 
 
  
 
 
  

ASK OUR ENGINEERS

You can entruSt your planning problems to
Parter’s engineering staff, and be confident of
getting economical and thoroughly satisfactory
solutions. No obligation. Write today.

THE J. E.   R CORPORATION Ottawa, Illinois

Manufacturers ofoGymnaslum, Playground and Swimming Pool Equipment

 

CHICAGO OFFICE: 554 N. Michigan m, Chicago I]. Phane: Sllperior 7-7252 NEW YORK OFFICE: 11 W. 42nd St. New York 1!. Phone: lumen 3-1342

NOVEMBER 1951 305

7M£

 

(N190! ants

Published in Jul ---

Physical Education Handbook

by DON CASH SEATON, Head, Department of Physical
Education and. Varsity Track Coach, University of
Kentucky; IRENE A. CLAYTON, Director of Physical
Education, Bryn Mawr College; HOWARD C. LEIBEE,
Supervisor of Physical Education, University of
Michigan; and LLOYD MESSERSMITII, Chairman, De-

partment of Health and Physical Education, South-
ern Methodist University.

Here is the FIRST text‘ designed for student use
in required (service) Physical Education pro-
grams. Written for the beginner, PHYSICAL
EDUCATION HANDBOOK integrates material
on 26 different sports and activities ordinarily in-
cluded in a modern collegc program of physical
education. The all—inclusive “how-to” treatment
of sports enablcs students to use this text through-
out their physical education program.

281 pages - drawings - diagrams - photos - 8"x101/2"

Published in September--

Handbook of Active Games

by DARWIN A. HINDMAN, Professor of Physical Edu-
cation, University of Missouri.

For the first time, a complete, intelligibly classi-
fied collection of all recognized games together
with their descriptions is presented in this new
text. The Handbook does away with the confusioit
caused by conflicting names, rules, and lack of
acceptable definition for many games. It oflers
invaluable help in allowing the physical education
director to find new games with which to round
out his program and to tcach the rules of new and
old games more quickly. A total of 823 games—
every recognized major and minor athletic or
gymnastic game that involves big muscle or whole-
body activity—are covered in this book.

Approx. 424 pages r- 5%”:(81/é” — Diagrams

70 Fifth Avenue

306

Sand for your copies today!

PRENTlcE-HALL, INC.
New York 11, N.Y.

 

For the Fall and Winter

 

    

SUPER RINGER

The Diamond line of Pitching Horseshoes and acces-

sories is the most complete made. But production is

limited, so get your order in now. Stocked by
leading jobbers everywhere.

DIAMOND BALK HORSESHUE CO.

4616 Grand Avenue

 

M CHAMPIONS ; I i
ll.

Duluth, Minnesota

Program

 

.1’.’

Finest In The World
For The World's

Greatest Athletes

.l i
_ -""' .. I
I 33.. . ' 2 _ _ .
I .‘  0 e e
\.!,!""°‘3t§& "It FIJI!!! Mr :5; [If‘o .
3‘} m . .

RECREATION

NOVEMBER, 1951

Editor, JOSEPH PRENDERGAST
Managing Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON
Editoria! Assistant, SONIA RACHLIN
Business Manager, ROSE JAY SCHWARTZ
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Recreation Administration, GEORGE BUTLER
Program Activities, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

Vol. XLV Price 35 Cents No. 6

On the Cover

A tame deer feeds trustfully from a boy’s hand.
Getting youngsters—as well as adults—t0 want to
preserve wildlife, to be conservation-conscious is a
major challenge of our times. One person who be-
lieves in showing children that many forms of wild-
life yield to kindness is Franklyn L. Dunn, of Mt.
Wilson, California. Last year Mr.'Dunn set up a
decorated Christmas tree in the forest for his animal
friends. He maintains that if wildlife is not pre-
served, “in one of the early tomorrows, some species
may become extinct. . . . If a species does die out,
something has gone from the world forever, some-
thing which cannot be replaced.” Photograph, cour-
Iesy Charlotte P. Norris, Mt. Wilson.

Photo Credits

Page 314, Erich Kastan, N.Y.; page 315, Robert J.
Keller, Kansas City, Mo.; page 316, A. Aumuller and

The Worid Teiegrarn and Sun, N.Y.; page 317, Coral
Gables War Memorial-Youth Center Association and

Miami Post for American Legion; page 319, Bob
Oberreich, N.Y.; page 323, Faribault Recreation De—
partnIent, Minn., and Roy J. Dunlap and St. Pan!
Dispatch-Pioneer Press; page 327, United States Fish
and Wildlife Service, Washington, D. C.; pages 332-
33, Play Schools Association and Roy Pinuey, N.Y.;
page 337, Citizens Patriot, Jackson, Mich.; page 348,
Marrone, New Rochelle, N.Y.; page 350, Manhattan
Recreation Commission, Kans.

Next Month

A potpourri of Christmas material—poetry; party

suggestions; reports on a parade with live reindeer.
And, as specia! attraction, the big story on the 1951
National Recreation Congress in Boston.

RECREATION is published monthly except July
and August by the National Recreation Association,
a service organization supported by voluntary con-
trihutions at 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10,
New York; is on file in public libraries and is
indexed in the Readers’ Guide. Suhscri tions $3.00
a year. Canadian agency, G. R. Welc Company,
Ltd., 1149 King Street West, Toronto 1, Ontario;
Canadian subscription rate $3.85. Re-entered as
second—class matter April 25, 1950, at the Post
Office in New York, New York, under Act of
March 3, 1879. Acce tance for mailing at special
rate of postage provi ed for in Section 1103, Act
of October 3, 1917, authorized May 1, 1924.

Advertising and Production Office: Jones Press,
Fifth and Fifth South, Minneapolis 15, Minnesota.

Space Representatives: Robert Edgell, 104 East
Fortieth Street, New York 16, New York; Mark
Minahan, 168 North Michigan Avenue, Chicago,
Illinois; Keith H. Evans, 3757 Wilshire Boulevard,
Los Angeles 5, California.
Copyright, 1951, by the
National Recreation Association, Incorporated

Printed in the U.S.A. 3%2
° Trade mark registered in the U. S. Patent Oflice.

NOVEMBER 1951

MAGAZINE

 

OF

 
 
  

THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

CONTENTS

General Features

The Importance of Recreation in Rehabilitation

(Editorial), John H. Waterman, M.D ........................ .. 308
Organization for Emergency Recreation Services ............ .. 310
The Character of Children’s Museums,

Margaret M. Brayton .................................................... .. 314
Let’s Have Workshops for Fellowship, Arthur Katona.... 320
Conservation ..................................................................... .. 327
The Urge for Play .............................................................. .. 332
Canadian Drama Festival, Richard MacDonald .............. .. 339
Recreation Put Us on the Map, Frank J. Anneberg ...... .. 350

Administration

Parks and Recreation Facilities ...................................... .. 318
Avalanche Control ............................................................ .. 322
Playground Accidents Prompt Surfacing Study .............. .. 324
German Leaders Discuss Community Recreation ............ .. 334
Service Clubs in Recreation, Everett R. Scherich ........... .. 337
Congress Report ................................................................ .. 338
Cooperation of Industrial and Community Recreation,

Sal J. Prezioso ................................................................ .. 343

Something’s Cooking in Cook County, Roberts Mann  345
Recreation as a Carcer

At Peace With Yourself, Francis W. Hartzell ............. .. 347
Why Not Consider Recreation as a Profession?,
Peter J. Mayers ......................................................... .. 348
After Thirty-eight Years of Service in the Recreation
Field, Josephine D. Randall ..................................... .. 348
Mark of a Profession .................................................. .. 349

Program Activities

Activities Of a Junior Board Of Directors,

Marguerite M. Moore ................................................... .. 317
Unique Children’s Theatre, Bob Oberreich .................. .. 319
A la Robin Hood, Roy J. Dunlap .................................... .. 323
Easy-tO-Make Christmas Cards, Florence L. Murphy ...... .. 328
Children Phone Santa, Mrs. Ples Harper .......................... .. 331
16mm. Films for Thanksgiving Programs ...................... .. 340
Script-in-Hand Performances, Donald Holland ............... .. 341
Television at Play, Henri Bob Russell .............................. .. 342
Recipes for Fun-——Making Christmas Tree Ornaments .... .. 351
How To Do ltl, Frank A. Staples .................................... .. 355

Regular Features
Recreation Comments ................................................... .. 312
Things You Should Know ................................................ .. 313
Recreation News ................................................................ .. 353'
Suggestion Box .................................................................. .. 354
Recreation Market News .................................................. .. 356
Magazines and Pamphlets ................................................ .. 358
Books Received .................................................................. .. 358
New Publications .............................................................. .. 359
Recreation Leadership Courses .................. ..Inside Back Cover

307

EDITORIAL

The Importance of

Recreation in REHABILITATION

John H. Waterman, M.D.

There is an old adage: “All work
and no play make Jack a dull boy.”
I like things like that, and anecdotes
as well, because they often reveal many
of the basic truths of our culture and
daily living.

Normal life is a complicated affair.
It is made up of many things. To ex-
ist, to eat, to sleep, to clothe one’s self,
to have housing, warmth, security and
the freedom to enjoy religion, social
intercourse, education, the arts, family
life, leisure hours and all that they
imply, man must work. But work alone
can become bitter. It may become a
passion, too, and of passions Kahlil
Gibran says in The Prophet, “Passion,
unattended, is a flame that burns to
its own destruction.” 0f work, he says,
“When you work you are a flute
through whose heart the whispering
of the hours turns to music. Which
of you would be a reed, dumb and
silent, when all else sings together in
unison?”

To work in this way, there must
also be recreation. If this is true in
normal life, then it becomes an im-
perative factor in the rehabilitation of
those people who, by one reason or
another, have left normal life and
become mentally ill. Many of them
have reached that state by so-called
overwork. Their work has become their
passion and made it impossible for
them to relax. But is it really over-
work? Can it not also be the inability
to integrate work and play? The men-
tally ill are no longer working and

 

Read before a meeting of recreation workers
of Washington State Institutions at Western

State Hospital.

308

relaxing in unison, as a part of a
well-balanced life.

It therefore becomes our job not
only to teach patients to work, but
also to relax and to integrate that
relaxation with their work. Work 0p-
portunities in an institution are un-
limited. This applies equally to a
state hospital and to any other in-
stitution. The institution must oper-
ate and be maintained. Patient help
may he used in a constructive way to
perform this task. Where there is ade-
quate personnel, specific work train-
ing programs, teaching of trades and
so on can be carried out. Opportuni-
ties for recreation are likewise present
in any institution. However, recrea-
tional programs usually, not always,
come second to the work program. The
reason is firmly entrenched in our
cultural thinking. “He is taking a well-
earned rest” is too frequently heard
to deny its implication.

Being primarily a child psychiatrist,
I speak first in relation to children
and their need for recreation. Many
lessons are to be lcarned from child-
hood. Most of our adult mental pa-
tients are children who have not grown
up; and children start with play and
learn to work, often painfully.

The young infant lives almost en-
tirely on the pleasure principle. For
the first year or so of life, his every
whim is satisfied by the adults around
him. As he grows older, he is gradu-
ally forced to conform to the conven-
tions of manners, personal hygiene and
the assumption of responsibilities as
his part in the family. Gradually, year
by year, his frce pleasure time be-
comes less and his responsibilities

 

And

childrcn the importance of work, wc

morc. in our efforts to tcach
often forget that life, to be satisfying
and productive, cannot be so unless
it includes play. We forget what Hop-
kirk says in his book, Institutions
Serving Children, that “the spirit of
play may be infused into almost any
task,” and that “one reason sonic
adults can work hard and effcctivcly
for long hours is that they bring
imagination and other elements of
play into the work they are doing.”

Probably the most characteristic and
fundamental thing about play is its
freedom. Hopkirk points out that thc
use of the imagination, the doing of
the most pleasant and the sudden spon-
taneous mecting of, and dealing with,
the unexpected are the elements which
make play so stimulating. The in-
dividual’s choice of kind of play, its
spontaneity and flexibility are the
things which constitute play’s freedom.
No one person, group of persons nor
social convention strongly demands
that people play. Work is rcquired, by
the struggle for existence; but when
play is required, it is no longer play.
Hopkirk says: “The recreation leader
who requires children to play may dc-
feat the purpose for which he is em-
ployed.” The freedom of play is not a
freedom from restrictions, because all
play has rulcs to follow, but thc rules
are sclf-imposed. Through them, play
moves more smoothly, is more cnjoya-
ble and more satisfying. The samc may
be said of work—so that in lcarning
the rules of play, one also learns the
rules of work.

Any recreation program in an in-
stitution, therefore, should be based

RECREATION

upon the lessons of childhood. It must
teach the patient the rules of play
from which he derives the rules of
work. It must teach the integration of
work and play in their proper pro-
portions. It must employ the principle
of freedom of choice. With the mental
patient who has become so engrossed
in the battle of life that he has for-
gotten how to play at all, and there-
fore can no longer work, we must be-
gin by teaching him to play.

One of the things which makes a
recreation program a basis for the be-
ginning of therapy is something that
was noted by John Eiscle Davis, one
of our most well-known recreational
therapists. In the project he conducted
shortly after World War I, in one
of the large veterans administration
hospitals at Perry Point, Maryland,
he observed that “many patients who
would not work would play.” He also
saw that “patients as a whole were
more normal in their play than in
other relationships and that play ap-
peared to have a distinctive appeal.”

All of you, I am sure, are familiar
with the various principlcs used in
recreation for the rehabilitation of
patients. Prescriptions the psychiatrist
might give the recreational therapist
for a particular patient can read in
many different ways, e.g.: “To help
the patient to be more outgoing”; “to
teach the patient group participation”;
“to help the patient work out his feel-
ings of hostility”; “to help the patient
feel less inferior.” Exactly how the
recreational therapist carries out the
prescription ordinarily is not the psy-
chiatrist’s concern. I am mentioning
one or two of the principles used by
recreational therapists, however, be-
cause I believe that all psychiatrists
should be sufiiciently interested in what
the former are doing to be aware of
how they do it.

Basic among the commonly-em-
ployed techniques in which psychia-
trists are interested is the “Touch Prin-
ciple,” first expounded by Dr. Adolph
Meyer, who felt that patients often
could tell things better through a
sensory level than they could through
talking. Dr. Meyer felt that when a pa-
tient actually took into his hands a con-
crete object—-such as a baseball bat,

NOVEMBER 1951

a ball, a tennis racket, there was less
chance for his delusions and hallucina-
tions to interfere with his actions.
This has definitely proved to be so and
means that it is important to keep
patients active with objects which they
can touch, feel and use.

A second principle of recreation, of
which it is important for the psychia-
trist to be aware, is the recreational
therapist’s efforts to deve10p the pa-
tients” skills in play. Many times pa-
tients can become quite skillful in ath-
letics of one sort or another and, from
this, gradually deve10p a desire to
find a place in the rest of the world
just as they have found it in sports.
Patients improve spontaneously as they
learn to play; but psychiatrists can
reinforce this improvement when they
can point out to a discouraged pa-
tient a concrete example of his suc-
cess in the field of recreation. Team-
work in sports or other recreational
activities is directly related to team-
work in living.

The facets of a recreation program
must be as numerous as the interests
of our community as a whole. Dra-
matics and music offer unlimited op-
portunities for many patients; others
are not at all interested or suited to
these pursuits. Creative art, painting,
drawing, clay modeling or sketching
may appeal most strongly to some
and be a bore to others. Sports are
highly constructive to some patients,
but may bc detrimental to others. It
is the joint duty of both the psychia-
trist and recreational therapist to find
out what activity most suits the patient.

If I were to envisage an ideal rec-
reational therapy program for an in-
stitution, it would also involve close
cooperation and frequent consultation
between recreational therapist and psy-
chiatrist. It would embrace all forms
of recreation and relaxation common
to our normal community life. Though
involving group participation, it would
be geared to the individual needs of
the individual patient. This means that
there would be activities of all sorts
and descriptions which patients might
attend or participate in according to
their own desires. It does not mean
that an activity would be entirely “vol-
untary,” with no urging on the part

of the staff. It does mean that “urging”
would be undertaken only when psy-
chiatrist and recreational therapist
jointly had agreed, through psychiatric
evaluation, psychological tests and
trial-by-recreational therapy, that the
activity prescribed was best for the
patient’s rehabilitation.

These are only general principles
and not details. Details always can be
worked out if the recreation team,
charged with the task of rehabilitation
of the patient, does not lose sight of
the fundamentals of the giving and tak-
ing of help. The giver of help, the
therapist, must have a real acceptance
of the integrity of the individual—no
matter how disorganized that indi-
vidual may be. The taker of help, the

patient, must be free to choose.

 

Social Training
Program

The Department of Education of
Toronto, through its Community Pro-
grammes Branch and the University of
Toronto, is c00perating in a special
training program and certification for
municipal recreation directors and as-
sistant recreation directors employed
full time in public recreation in On-
tario. Professor Alan Klein, of the
School of Social Work, University of
Toronto, has been appointed “training
adviser.”

Each year a six-day institute will be
conducted at a central point and four
two-day institutes in each of five
selected centers throughout the prov-
ince. In a d d i t i o n , correspondence
studies and work assignments will be
included. Permanent department cer-
tificates will be awarded to recreation
directors who are successful in the
course and who have a minimum num-
ber of years in public recreation. In-
terim certificates also will be issued,
and many recreation directors will
qualify for these immediately. Ap-
proximately seventy leaders are ex-
pected to register for the training and
to write examinations this year.

Approved university degrees will be
accepted in- lieu of the department’s
training program.

309

“The combined forces of all agencies and of voluntccr
citizens can build an elicctive organization under civil

defcnse leadership.”—-RAYMOND T. SCHAEFFER,
Director, Emergency \Velfare Division, Federal Civil

Defense Administration.

(legalization fer

_ Emergency Recreation Services

UNDER CIVIL DEFENSE LEADERSHIP

In order to secure the most effective
use of professional recreation leader-
ship in the event of an atomic disaster,
provision now should be made for ef-
fective organization under civil dcfense
leadership. When the attack begins, it
will be too late to organize, train and
assign recreation leaders for the need-
ed disaster service.

The organization of recreation with-
in civil defense cannot be delegated to
a separate agency or to a committec
of agency representatives. Recreation
in the civil defense chain of command
must be the responsibility of a single
individual appointed for that purpose
by the civil defense director. Full
authority to recruit, train and assign
recreation leaders must rest with the

rary rehabilitation phase of the emer-
gency welfare services.

In most communities, the superin-
tendent of the municipal recreation de-
partment or commission is the most
logical person to be assigned the civil
defense stafIr responsibility for emer-
gency recreation.

The total resources of all recreation
agencies will be required to operate
emergency recreation programs at ev-
ery place where they are needed. With-
in every community, there are a num-
ber of organizations with equipment
and professional recreation leadership
which should bc integrated into the
civil defense program. A partial list
might include:

Recreation departments.

EMERGENCY

WELFARE SERVICES

 

MASS
CARE

REGISTRATION

and
INFORMATION

 

staff person assigned that responsi-
hility.

Provision for emergency recreation
services in the civil defense chart of or-
ganization will vary from community
to community. One suggestion would
placc such services under the tempo-

310

TEM P0 RARY EVACUATION

REHABILIIATION RECEPTION

 

Schools, PTA’s.

Young Womcn’s Christian Associa-
tion.

Young Men’s Christian Association.

Jewish Community Center.

Salvation Army.

Catholic Youth Organization.

 

u-I

Boy Scouts of America.

Boys’ Club, Camp Fire Girls.

Girl Scouts, Incorporated.

Settlement houses, churches.

Libraries, Junior League.

Music, drama, art and other activi-
ties groups.

Industrial recreation departments.

Commercial recreation intcrests.

Recreation and athletic equipment
dealers.

One of the best ways to achievc or-
ganization of the community’s recrea-
tion resources under the civil defense
leadcrship is through the cooperation
of a committee of representatives from
all of the recreation agencies and inter-
ests. In some communities, recreation
divisions of the council or defense rec-
reation committees already may exist
and, if expanded where desirable, can
serve as the civil defense recreation
committee. Such a committee should
assist the eivil defensc stafl representa-
tive responsible for emergency recrea-
tion in taking inventory of all re-
sources, planning a program, rccruit-
ing, training and assigning leaders.

Some of the problems which will
have to be worked out by the director
of emergency recreation services will
include:

Identification of all
mass-care ccnters

Approximate numbcr of homeless to
be served.

Agc, cultural background and char-
acteristies of homeless cxpected.

RECREATION

Size of staff, duties and responsibili-
ties.

Assignment—

Usually each leader will be assigned
to the center nearest his home or place
of work.

Responsibilities—

Additional
should be assigned to all recreation
personnel for the period immediately
following the attack. Under some dis-
aster conditions, medical care, food,
clothing and registration will take pre-
cedence over recreation.

In order to achieve effective civil
defense organization, all recreation
volunteers and professionals must be
registered as civil defense workers.
Every recreation agency should make

major responsibilities

certain that its personnel are registered
and assigned specific duties.

Within the Agency

Intelligent organization for emer-
gency recreation services requires that
each recreation agency be fully pre-
pared to withstand the initial force of
an enemy attack. Emergency services
cannot operate if the necessary person-
nel and equipment are knocked out be-
fore they can function.

Every Operating recreation agency
should have a plan of defense to pro-
tect its patrons and personnel. All rec-
reation agency personnel should be
thoroughly briefed on basic civil de-
fense information. They need to know:

Personal survival procedures.

The general plan for civil defense.

The probable methods of enemy at-
tacks and the probable effects of these
attacks.

The civil defense plan in the neigh-
borhoods in which they live and work.

First aid, including special proce-
dures for atomic casualties.

Areas and facilities under the con-
trol of the recreation agency should
have a designated shelter. Because of
the variety of structures and grounds
maintained by recreation and park
agencies, this will be no small job.

Recreation personnel should work
with the civil defense shelter director
in identifying the safest plaCe at each
installation. Signs should be posted,
pointing to the shelter area. Every

NOVEMBER 1951

area and facility should have posted
upon its bulletin board exactly what
to do and where to go the minute the
alert sounds. If the facility has no
building structure suitable for a shel-
ter, civil defense should be consulted
to determine the best procedure for
patrons.

Advance planning will take into con-
sideration three different problems of
the shelter operation. First of all, it
will be necessary to get everyone into
the shelter area as rapidly as possible.
If the installation primarily is an in-
door center with a limited number of
rooms, the problem is relatively simple.
At the sound of the alert, everyone
would file immediately to the designat-
ed spot. If the facility combines indoor
with outdoor play areas and extends
into a number of acres with a variety
of recreation activities, the problem
becomes more complex.

In most situations, the agency would
be well advised to organize and train
a group of junior volunteers who
could be responsible for some phase of
the movement to the shelter and its
preparation. A fairly typical summer
situation in many communities will
find three or four hundred youngsters
scattered over ten to fifteen acres of
playfield space. Some of them will be
at the wading pools, some at the tennis
courts, some at the baseball field, some
on the apparatus and some in the
shaded, quiet area. It will take con-
siderable planning and extensive use
of volunteers to work out a scheme
whereby the leader can see that all of
the grounds are cleared immediately,
building precautions taken and crowd
control maintained from the moment
the shelter is entered.

Secondly, consideration must be giv-
en to the maintenance of morale and
order in the shelter during the time of
the alert. The typical number of par-
ticipants at the installation, their age
level, the nature of the shelter and the
equipment available are some of the
things to be considered in planning a
morale program while waiting for the
attack or the all clear.

I The third problem involves control
over participants following the attack.
The leader must be prepared to follow
through with crowd control until it is

absolutely safe to leave. Authorized
civil defense personnel should provide
clearance before anyone is allowed to
depart. If the facility is close to the
center of the disaster, everyone in the
shelter capable of helping in the emer-
gency should be directed to assist. If
the facility is far enough removed from
the blast so that no casualties are ex-
perienced, every effort should be made
to assist those closer to the center.
Children should be sent home as soon
as it is safe to leave the area, unless
previous arrangements have been made
for the older ones to assist in prepar-

ir 1* ‘k ‘k ‘k ‘k ‘k * 1k

“Civil defense, well organized, can
reduce casualties by half or more
and keep the cities and the produc-
tion lines in operation.”——-MILLARD
CALDWELL, Civil Defense Admin-
istrator, Federal Civil Defense Ad-
ministration.

* * ‘k ‘k * * * * *

ing the facility for possible use as a
mass-care center or first-aid station.

One of the dangers to guard against
is the spreading of rumors. A thorough
knowledge of the civil defense organi-
zation and plan will help the recreation
leader to prevent panic and fear re-
sulting from misinformation.

As soon as the recreation agency is
certain that it has taken every possible
precaution and is well prepared to meet
an emergency, it should inform par-
ents of children who regularly use the
area or facility exactly what steps have
been taken to protect their children. It
should advise the parents to stay where-
ever they are at the time of attack or
alert and to take every measure for
their own safety. They should be re-
assured that the best possible care is
being provided for their youngsters.

Reprinted from the NRA manual,
“Emergency Recreation Services in
Civil Defense,” available free upon re-
quest from the National Recreation
Association. Other free defense mate-
rial published by the association in-

cludes a bibliography of “Recreation
for the Armed Forces” and “A Com-
munity Recreation Program for Armed

Forces Personnel.”

311

RECREATION

 

Annual Reports
Sirs:

I like the idea of a competition on
annual reports. You make out an an-
nual report, not many people look at it,
and there is not too much incentive for
making an exceptionally good job of
it . . . Anything that could be done
to make these reports better should he
done.

JAMES C. LEWIS, Lincoln Recreation
Board, Lincoln, Nebraska.

New Recreation Film
Sirs:

The United States Department of
State was vividly impressed with the
film, “Community Recreation,” that
was made for it here. (See “Recreation
Put Us on the Map,” page 350.———Ed.)
The department was struck with the co-
operation and enthusiasm of the people
in the various scenies, taken over a six-
weeks’ period. The town really went
all out.

Since Mr. Grant Whytock, the di-
rector, was caught here in the Hood
and saw the splendid manner in which
the people were “taking it,” heibrought
back to the State Department a story
of good will, cooperation and efficient
leadership. The State Department then
decided to make a documentary film
for other communities to use as a
visual aid for any kind of disaster——
flood, fire, tornado and so on. So the
Robert Carlisle Production Film Com-
pany is back in town making a second
picture in Manhattan. The script is be-
ing written while the shooting con-
tinues.

This rehabilitation film probably
will be called, “A City Gets Back to

Normal,” or something similar. The

312

film company has, as stock, the nor-
mal scenes taken for the “Community
Recreation” picture and the two reels
of flood pictures taken after the flood.

What makes it so fine is that once
completed, Manhattan will receive a
copy of both films at a ceremony held
after a first public showing.

FRANK J. ANNEBERG, Superintendent

of Recreation, Manhattan, Kansas.

Recreation Magazine

Sirs:

We would very much like to receive
a copy of RECREATION each time it
is issued . . . we believe that it would
be of considerable value to the Main-
liner Club of Chicago.

C. W. JOHNSON, General Manager,

Mainliner Club, United Air Lines.

Sirs:
My heartiest congratulations On
what I, and numerous others with
whom I have talked, consider to be a
vastly improved RECREATION maga-
zine, both in appearance and content.
While I realize the value of articles
dealing with current practice, with re-
spect to program, it has seemed to me
that the old RECREATION carried . . .
not enough of the type of article deal-
ing with the problems with which our
profession should be concerning itself.
Among these are such problems as re-
search, basic principles of administra-
tion, purposes and values, records and
reports, planning, certification, com-
munity relationships, legal aspects,
public relations and many others .
Please count on my active support in
any way that I may contribute. . .
HOWARD G. DANFORD, President,

Florida Recreation Association.

' Tiliite PAIN TIN

 

fEIfBHElPEMI “mat; for All
com: moons. [FATHER 8: CRAF

lumincun, .I
KITS. nouns. “7" _

. _::.:°.a° HIBEESI IIAlAlllli m   ‘ .

 

traditional

American
nds

I".

  

a¢72eméarj 
M£éldc (gifag'dmaz/

RECREATION

 
 

 

   

'A COMMUNITY SERVICES BRANCH in
the special Services Division, the Ad-
j utant Gencral’s Office, Department of
the Army, will be established in the
near future, according to Brigadier
General C. W. Christenberry, USA, De-
partment of Defense, who spoke before
the NRA’s board of directors and its
Boston sponsors during one of the
luncheon meetings of the Boston Na-
tional Recreation Congress in October,
as well as before one of the Congress
general sessions.

“lt is one way through which we are
preparing to cooperate with the Na-
tional Recreation Association, United
Service Organizations, United Com-
munity Defense Services and other
national organizations offering service
to the armed forces,” he said.

“Briefly, this Community Services
Branch will provide a civilian field
representative in each of the six army
areas—as staff advisers for the six
commanding generals in all matters
pertaining to the utilization of com-
munity services and facilities in their
relation to each and every locality
where troops are stationed and/or
where dependents of military person-
nel reside. A small guiding, supervi-
sory, policy-making staff will comprise
a new branch in my Washington office,
headed by the very best civilian we can
obtain in this field. That person will
be Ott Romney, Dean of School of
Physical Education and Athletics,
West Virginia University. The six field
representatives will be fully qualified
by experience and ability to work
quietly and efficiently, in cooperation
with the air force, the navy and ma-
rines, to bring about a unity of co-
operation between the civilian and the
military to a degree never before

7461494 @acc 55064665. Km.

appreciative thanks for the fine service
rendered the armed services by the
National Recreation Association.

' FREE SQUARE DANCE INSTITUTES of
one and two-day duration in seven
states in the South are being conducted
by Ed Durlacher, nationally known
square dance caller. The program be-
gan in October in Wheeling, West Vir-
ginia, and will culminate on March fif-
teenth in Nashville, Tennessee. For
further details, write to Mr. Durlacher,
Square Dance Associates, 102 North
Columbus Avenue, Freeport, N .Y.

' CONGRESS DELEGATES—~from through-
out the United States, Canada, Israel,
Germany, Japan, Thailand and the
Philippines—attended a panel discus-
sion in which Boston physician, Dr.
Allen Brailey, emphasized that older
persons need to feel that they are a
productive part of the life of the com-
munity in which they live to be men-
tally and emotionally well.

“The ‘infiow idea’ that everything
must be done for them is childish.
They must have a productive part in
the life of the community, a part in
some useful project or enterprise. They
need a market for their energy, interest
and affections. And mental health has
nothing to do with income; older per-
sons who are independent need it as
much as the indigent. When ten per
cent of the population of almost every
community today is over sixty years
of age, the_ situation is of growing
importance.”

Dr. Brailey advocated both social
and business clubs and hobby sh0ps
for the elderly, some of which might
become self-supporting.

' AMERICANS ARE LEAVING TIIE LAND,
at a time of unprecedented agricultural

achieved.” The General also expressed prosperity, according to Richard L.

NOVEMBER 1951

Neuberger in the March 1951 issue
of Survey. For the first time in the
history of the nation, a decade has
closed with farm population sharply
down from what it was in the cen-
sus of ten years earlier. This is not
only attributed to the mechanization
which has made it possible to raise
more crops with fewer hands, but to
the loneliness and inconvenience of
farm life. Once people have been part
of a great mass effort, such as any
phase of the recent war, they find it
difficult to return to a remote and
lonely way of life. Census figures show
that the city’s greatest magnetism has
been for young people. Since 1940, the
farm population under eighteen years
of age has decreased seven per cent
and, between eighteen and forty-four,
it has dropped thirteen per cent; while
there has been a five per cent gain
from forty-four years to old age. The
contrast is important for the future.
“Today rural life must be fuller and
more challenging,” says Mr. Neuberg-
er. “To answer strong competition
from the cities . . . it must offer com-
panionship and cultural advantages if
it is to survive.”

° PLANS ARE UNDER WAY for low-cost
group transportation to India for the
Sixth International Conference of So-
cial Work in December 1952. This
will take the form of a one-month tour
under the sponsorship of the United
States Committee of the International
Conference, with the arrangements be-
ing handled by ASSIST (Affiliation of
Schools and Seminars for International
Study and Training).

It is anticipated that the all-inclusive
cost for thirty days from New York
City and return will be $1,295. In ad-
dition to conference meetings, there
will be Opportunities for discussion
with welfare leaders and inspection of
social welfare institutions in India,
Pakistan, other countries of the East.

According to present plans, the con-
ference will take place in Madras. It is
expected to be a significant milestone
in international social welfare since it
is the first International Social Work
Conference held in the Far East. All
those who are interested in attending
should write to the conference office,

22 West Gay Street, Columbus, Ohio.
313

JUNIOR MUSS' "

(.1.

 

( :n'E FIVE CHINESE COOKS the same

ingredients and you’ll get five dif-
ferent dishes. Yet, Chinese food, by
whatever recipes, is distinctive from
all other culinary art. So with chil-
dren’s museums. The ingredients basi»
cally may be the same, but the re-
sults are different. Yet there
distinctive flavor which characterizes
them all.

It is the purpose here to outline
briefly some of those ingredients of

isa

children’s museums which produce the
flavor.

The first ingredient is children. Once
a colleague jokingly remarked: “Why
‘children’s museums”? Sounds as if
you displayed the children in the
cases.” Not at all, anymore than you

I'An addres~ given at 3 Midwest Museums
Conference of the American Association of
Museums, Indianapolis, Indiana.)

Juthor is curator, Children’s Muse-
um, Detroit Public Schools. Michigan.

314-

display a city in a municipal museum,
a university in a university museum . . .

A children’s museum makes children
the focus of all that it does. All the
collections are determined upon the
basis of what is interesting to chil-
dren, not only as to subject, but as
to color and form design. The exhibits
are geared to their physical conven-
ience and mental development.

The programs, clubs, movies, games
and all the other activities are planned
upon what is known about their pref-
erences and often upon their direct

advice.

The stafi as a whole must like and
get along well with the youngsters
and the educational staff must know
how they grow and develop, as well
as how to use the collections to the
best advantage with them. In this sense
the museum is child-centered.

The second and equally important
ingredient is the element which dis-
tinguishes a children’s museum from

h-Iargarct M. Braylon

The Character of

CHILDREN’S
MUSEUMS

a laboratory, workshop or progrcssivc
school—the collections of objects them-
selves. These are the museum’s stock-
in-trade and as essential to it as books
in a library or ice in a refrigerator.
Too often, well-meaning citizens sec
the social benefits of children’s mu-
seums and ask for help in starting
one with some sand from the Sahara,
a hair wreath and lots of good in-
tentions. But they are doomed to fail-
ure without collections carefully se-
lected, however small, and without
some criteria for further accessions.

I am not suggesting that these col-
lections include the rarest, largest,
only or other superlative objects of
their kind in existence—any more
than they should comprise only hand-
me-downs from attics. They should
meet the requirements of integrity and
authenticity, good taste, high quality
of w0rkmanship. In other words, they
should be representative of a high
order of their kind. These criteria, a

RECREATION

little tact and a stiff curatorial back-
bone kecp the collections of chil-
dren’s museums from being “dump-
ing grounds” or merely “junk” . . .
The use of the collection depends
upon the children, too. Exhibits about
ideas and facts which they must learn,
to become well-adjusted parents and
citizens of the future, may well make
use of permanent materials displayed
behind glass. Other materials may be
set aside for children to examine, han-
dle or study for special purposes.

Whatever the purposes or use, ma-

terials must be respected. Objects to

handle, textures to feel, things to see
for one’s self—wall serve children as

projectiles to other lands and times.
Single items often are used in collec-
tions, but most frequently, in a chil-
dren’s museum, they are arranged in
exhibits which present ideas.

“Magic Ears,” an exhibit dramatiz-
ing the history of corn and its travels,
points up the American child’s de-
pendence upon this product by show-
ing him all the things which he finds
in the kitchen, at his desk and in the
general store, which would not be there
without corn.

The basic principles of design are
illustrated in textiles so hung that the
children may visualize the artist at his
loom, repeating his message in rhythm,
color and form, with the same delight
that they feel when dancing and sing-
ing the repetitious favorite of child-

hood, “Here We Go ’Round the Mul-
berry Bush.”

The passenger pigeons, in their
woodland habitat case, become more
than a handsome, unusual exhibit
when the boys and girls read the story
of how fast and why a race can disap-
pear. Facts in exhibits must be re-
lated to present ideas. Materials must
be used with such taste and discrimina-
tion, such simplicity, such feeling for
color, form and rhythm that the chil-
dren’s emotional pleasures are guaran-

teed.

Finally, the ideas in the exhibits
must clearly relate to the youngsters’
experiences and problems in media
which they like and understand. Thus
the exhibits may play their unique
part in stating fundamental principles
of human existence.

NOVEMBER 1951

In this crisis of history, when the
importance of human relations and
getting along with pc0ple is uppermost
in the thinking of leaders in business,
industry and education, museum di-
rectors are more than ever aware that
the successful implementation of a pro-
gram for children depends upon the
kind of people who make up the staff.

Certainly each member of the edu-
cational staff must have at least one
field of knowledge related to the collec-
tions. He should have a college degree
in the subject plus graduate work in
accredited institutions to keep him
abreast of his field. Museum educators
of the future must fortify themselves
with knowledge, the quality and source
of which are recognized in academic
circles, if the educational standards
of their museums are to meet the stand-

ards of other educational institutions.

But this is just the beginning. Trav-
el, a broad cultural background and
understanding of current social and
economic problems, as they affect the
children in their care, also are neces-
sary to staff members who must suc-
cessfully meet the challenge with which
they are now confronted.

And, finally, as a qualification of
top priority, children’s museum staff
members must understand and enjoy
boys and girls, noisy or quiet, dirty
or clean, stubborn or docile, in gangs
or as individuals, and they must know
how to use museum collections and ex-
hibits, games, clubs and programs to
draw out the best in each child.

Each community has its own special
needs into which the children’s mu-
seum must fit its program so that it
does not impinge upon the programs
of schools, recreation centers, nursery

schools, art workshops, clubs or other
museums in the area.

A survey of all such agencies and
institutions as these will guide each
year’s plans; but the one factor to
remember is that if the activities al-
ways are related to the exhibits and
collections, there will be little danger
of duplicating services already offered
elsewhere.

These are the ingredients, then, of
a children’s museum: the children, the
collections and exhibits, the staff and
a knowledge of the specific service

which can be rendered by these factors
and these alone.

Specific problems and teclmiqucs of
“how to do it” require much more
time than can be claimed here, and yet,
underlying the effective operation of a
children’s lnusculn are certain princi-

ples which guide the work.

The exercise of individual choice,
the opportunity to select one’s own ac-
tivity, game or club without any regi-
mentation or directive from adults is
the right of children in their museums.
Each one should be free to do as he
likes so long as he maintains a good
social attitude.

Children are so absorbed in working
with the museum materials that the
hum of their activity and the serious-
ness of their purposes never fail to
astound parents. It is essential that
they be encouraged to choose for them-
selves, to come and go as they wish, to

l

 

One of the museum games has led to
Eskimo case. Little sister chooses to tag
along although she could color or attend
a little tot’s story elsewhere in museum.

feel that, in the museum, they are not
obliged to fall into line, either physical
or mental.

Only when children come to the mu-
seum as members of a school class are
they treated with formality, depending
upon the desires of the teacher who

315

hrings them for purposes of study re-
lated to school work.

Another basic principle of children’s
museum philosophy is proprietorship.
The child is given to understand that
this is his museum, his games cup-
board, his club room, his building and
grounds. Children show in many ways
their sense of belonging to the institu-
tion, and it is not unusual for an old-
timer to coach the newcomer on the
value of the exhibits and the care of
the property. One almost can see a
child’s personality expand as he proud-
ly conducts visitors through his mu-
seum.

PrOprietorship leads to a sense of re-
sponsibility without which no privilege
has much intrinsic value.

This feeling of responsibility has led
many museums to deve10p groups of
junior docents, to invite youth to sit on
policy-making committees and, best of
all, to encourage each individual to in-
crease his own self-reliance.

Children’s museums are not merely
series of exhibits—although these are
their stock-in-trade. Whether children
see the exhibits once or many times,
there are games, puzzles, things to
make, which direct their attention to
the ideas presented in the collections.
Questions are answered; clues found;
observations sharpened; curiosity
whetted.

This opportunity for participation
and this subjective element in chil-
dren’s museum education are part and
parcel of the learning processes of the
growing child. Dr. Alfred North White-
head says, “The actuality is the proc-
ess.” Participation by the children in
relation to objects from other lands
and times creates, to the degree of their
capacity, the actuality.

Each child is different. The museum
facilities, therefore, give him abundant
chance to find that kind of actuality to
which he responds and wherein he can
expose himself to further learning.

The foreword in a children’s hook,
All About Us, quotes Dr. Albert Ein-
stein: “The struggle for an unpreju-
diced attitude towards the simple and
yet so often misunderstood facts of hu-
man existence must start at the still

flexible mind of the child.” Thus, all

children’s museum programs, centered

316

 

Some objects should be set aside for the children to examine and handle. Such things
transport them to other lands and into other times. Here they are learning of armor.

Q

as they are about the growing child,
must be at all times flexible. The staff
must be sensitive to growth and change
in individuals; they must respect indi-
vidual children and understand the
various ways in which different chil-
dren respond. The exhibits, activities
and methods of work must be subject
to change by constantly keeping a keen
ear open to what the youngsters say
and how they react to the program.

There must be great variety of ac-
tivities and exhibits so that everyone
will find, somewhere in the museum,
the association of materials and friends
with which he feels kindred.

There is need for better understand-
ing of the philosophy of children’s mu-
seums, not only in their constituencies,
but also in the profession itself. These
museums are not vest-pocket editions
of the adult or subject-matter museums
-——nor can they do the same kind of
work. They can and do, however, pre-
pare future citizens and taXpayers to
frequent, enjoy and support museums.
They give the young visitor an impres-
sion of the museum as a pleasant place
where he is welcome; where he learns
from direct experience many facts and
ideas which he will need as he grows
up; where he goes repeatedly to join
other children in activities related to
the collections, or uses them in study-
ing at school. They can encourage the
child to use the adult museum, as he
grows to understand and appreciate it
and its services to him.

 

But, more important, perhaps, than
anything else, children’s museums can
give the child “great ideals and give
them to him young” (to quote from
Alice Freeman Palmer) and they can
help him to deve10p within himself
those inner resources of aesthetic en-
joyment and intellectual curiosity
which lead to the permanent joys of
life.

Children’s museums have these re-
sponsibilities along with all the other
institutions working with boys and
girls. By a clarification of the func—
tions of each, and by intelligent co-
operation of all, the role of museums in
the lives of our youth can more closely
than now approximate their resources
and responsibilities.

Woman’s Day has kindly given
the National Recreation Associa-
tion a supply of five fine reprints.
They’re yours, in single copies or
in quantity lots, for the cost of mail-
ing and handling. Order c0pics for
all your crafts leaders or crafts
classes! First come, first served!

Block Printing
Gifts from the Sewing Basket
Gifts to Make

Merry-go-round (for small chil-

dren) .

We Build a Doll House.

Prices: 100 per single copy; $1.00
for twenty-five.

RECREATION

Activities of a

Marguerite M. Moore

Junior Board of Directors

UR JUNIOR BOARD OF DIRECTORS, at
0 the Coral Gables War Memorial
Youth Center, is an interesting group
of teen-agers, fifteen years and older,
selected on the basis of leadership and
voted into office. This group represents
four schools and serves as a teen-age
planning committee—accepting certain
activities, rejecting others. Each year
members sponsor a project to aid the
youth center in some way. Last year
they sponsored the presentation of
Seventeen, by the Youth Center Play-
makers, and raised four hundred dol-
lars, having a wonderful time doing so.

Recently they held their annual fo-
rum. The tOpics chosen for discussion
included “How Our Youth Center Con-
tributes to the Community,” “How
Civic Clubs Contribute to the Youth

MRS. MOORE is a recreation specialist
and holds a degree from Carnegie Tech.

 

NOVEMBER 1951

Center,” “How Could Cooperation Be-
tween Schools and the Youth Center
be lncreased?”, “What Teen-Agers
Think of Present World Conditions,”

and others.

They enjoy this event immensely.
Completely unrehearsed, it is interest-
ing and sometimes hilarious. Truly, at
this time, the teen-agcrs “speak their
minds.” Of course, not all members of
the Junior Board can take part in the
forum; and, since it is a purely volun-
tary activity, those less inclined to talk
serve as hosts and hostesses in the so-
cial period that follows. Each member
taking part personally invites a guest
who is a prominent member of the
community; and the general audience,
also present by invitation, is made up
of parents and leading townsfolk. This
year’s adult participants included civic
club presidents, PTA presidents and
university faculty members. They ex-

In the War Memorial
Youth Center, Coral
Gables, many groups
of teen-agers enthu-
siastically carry on
with lively events.

pressed keen interest and enthusiasm in
this yearly teen-age activity and agreed
that such a program, involving teen-
agers and civic leaders, builds a strong
bridge of understanding. The young
ones gain new respect for their elders
and, at the salne time, the adult partici-
pants realize that American tecn-agers
do think, emphatically and clearly, on
issucs related to themselves and their
world. ,

During the forum, Paul Brinson,
well-known Coral Gables attorney act-
ing for the local Elks association, of-
fered the teen-agers the gift of a tele-
vision set for the youth center. Po-
litely, but firmly, and with one voice,
they refused it, giving reasons that
could well match those of trained rec-
reation leaders. They said it was too
inactive—“Who wants to sit and look
at those ancient movies and modern
dances?” They felt that it would per-
mit a few to monopolize space which
could be used by many; that the time
clement was bad because “the good
dance bands come on when we have
to be in bed.” They said it would invite
“necking,” because the room must be
fairly dark for good reception and,
anyhow, they thought that the youth
center is “more in need of a bus to
carry our teams to other areas for com-
petition.”

Following the forum, William McIl-
wain, city manager of Coral Gables,
commented, “It’s remarkable how these

317

kids can talk on thcir feet; and they
talk sense!”

Sara Smith, pcrt, pretty, blonde,
fiftcen-ycar-old star athlete, drew gales
of laughter from gray-beards and not-
so-gray-beards in the audience with her
topic, “Are Teen-Agers Today Having
as Much Fun as Their Parents Did?”
lt was so much enjoyed by the adults
present at the forum that perhaps it al-
so will stir memories in the minds of
many readers.

Are Teen-Agers Today Having as
Much Fun as Their Parents Did?

We teen-agers of today differ greatly
from the teen-agers of yesterday. It is
only natural, since customs, fashions
and interests have changed, that we
would change also.

It seems as if the youth of yesterday
had many and varied interests. And it
is my inclination to think that they had
as much fun with their activities as we
do with ours. Instead of doing the
“Birmingham Hop” or jitter-bugging,
the teen-agers of 1920, or around that
time, would Charleston or “Toddle”. . .

But they were not so particular
about their transportation to and from
places as are many of the teen-agers of
today.

“Many were the times,” and l quote
my mother and my father, “that we
and others would rollerskate to school.
We never had to worry about the fact

that Dad might not give us the money
for gas so wc could go to school.” It
also seems to me that too many girls
feel as if their dates have to have a car
before they will go out. I asked Mother
about this and she said that if the girls
then had waited for a boy to have a
car to go out they would probably have
sat at home on many a Saturday night.
She mentioned that the boys took the
girls to dances on a streetcar.

It does not appear that our fathers
are as strict as fathers were then. Many
did not think it preper for their daugh-
ters to wear any sort of makeup, roll
their stockings or cut their hair. Our
fathers seem to be more lenient, as was
apparent last spring when just about
every girl had her hair cut in the new-
look “boyish” fashion.

But the teen-agers of today seem to
be somewhat “unpredictable,” or so
many of our writers seem to think.
Why—we have been studied, analyzed,
evaluated and usually end up termed
“emotional and highly irregular human
beings.”

The writers also seem to be puzzled
at our “jive talk”——-many of them just
couldn’t understand what they called
our own “language.” But they seem to
forget that the youth of yesterday had
their own “language” also. While we
say “neat,” they would say “sharp” or
“keen.”

The boys who hung around drug-
stores or what we would call “hot-rod-
llarry’s” were known as “drugstorc
cowboys” or “jelly-beans.” Thc soda
fountains were referred to as “jelly
joints.” (l got most of my information
from my mother and father, because I
thought that they were just about as
typical teen-agers as there ever were
in their teen-age time.)

The girls who were sports-minded
often played basketball. Instead of
wearing shorts and a shirt as we do,
they wore middy blouses and bloomers.
But while some things have changed,
the music has not to some extent. The
people who liked to hear the popular
records would wear out the newly-re-
lcased recordings of “Margie” or
“Dardanella.” The favorite band was
the one conducted by Ben Bernie or
King Oliver. This was before Paul
\Vhiteman became popular.

The “hot-rods” then were referred to
as “tin-lizzies” or “llivvers.”

And so, comparing the teenagers of
yesterday with the teen-agers of today,
I believe that we are having as much
fun as our parents did. And, perhaps,
when we teen-agers of today grow up,
the same subject will approach our
children and I hope that they have as
much fun hearing of “the good old
times” from us as we do hearing about
them from our parents.

Parks and Recreation Facilities

0 Over $5,300,000,000 in local and state public works are

in the planning stage, according to a compilation recently
made by the Community Facilities Service of the Housing
and Home Finance Agency. Although the estimated cost
of projects relating to parks and recreation facilities is
relatively small as compared with that of proposed high-
ways, bridges, sewer systems and schools, it nevertheless
totals nearly $125,000,000. When constructed, these facili-
ties will represent a marked increase in local and state rec-
reation resources.

The figures for public works projects are listed in three
categories: '

1. Plans completed without federal assistance.

2. Plans in the design stage without federal assistance.

318

3. Projects for which the federal government has made
advances for plan preparation.

Plans have been completed for 221 parks and other rec-
reation facilities, to cost an estimated total of $25,507,000.
Of this amount, work on $13,822,000 was scheduled to
start in 1950-51; on $3,364,000 in 1952; and on $6,354,000
in 1953. Plans in the'design stage are for facilities esti-
mated to cost $89,765,000, with work scheduled to start
in 1950-51 totaling $37,118,000; in 1952, $18,799,000; in
1953, $11,140,000. Twenty-nine park and recreation facility
projects, for the planning of whieh federal advances have
been made, are estimated to cost $9,298,521. Advances were
made with the understanding that construction work was to
start within three years after the plan was completed.

RECREATION

 

Unique
Children’s
Theatre

0 0n the lower East Side of New York City, there Hour-
ishes one of the most active and colorful theatrical enter-
prises in the country. Every week an enthusiastic audience
gathers in the Madison Square Children’s Theatre. The
footlights come up; the house lights dim; and the red
plush curtains part on make-believe, which may be trag-
edy or comedy, pantomime, vaudeville or musical. What-
ever the spectacle, it spells glowing enchantment for both
audience and actors, and carries them beyond the confines
of humdrum reality.

But entertainment is the purpose and allure of show
business everywhere. What makes the Madison Square
Children’s Theatre more unique than any on the Great
White Way is that the actors, stage crew and technicians
are lively, high-spirited children. In this little East Side
theatre, they are actually and completely on their own;
and it has come to be an integral and exciting part of the
Madison Square Boys Club, which sponsors it.

Over forty nationalities are represented in the theatre’s
activities onstage, backstage and in the audiences. The
majority of the youngsters come from families who live
in four- and six-story walk-up apartments. Over five hun-
dred underprivilegcd boys and girls of the neighborhood
already have taken part in the productions. And there is
action aplenty! A boy can be an actor, a stage manager,
a make-up artist, a press agent, a business manager, a
property man, an electrician, a carpenter or a painter.
Or he may pull the curtain in one play while he’s study-
ing to play the lead in the next. The possibilities are
unlimited and as varied as they are numerous.

There are no stars in this theatre, and those who work
backstage are as important as the actors. They even take
curtain calls with the cast. Here play production is a
group activity in the true sense of the word. It develops
teamwork and encourages creative ability and imagina-
tion. And the youngsters have a lot of fun. They enter
into it heart and soul, which accounts largely for their good
performances. For instance, one of them, cast in the role
of a medieval knight, so adored his coat of mail that he

NOVEMBER 1951

    
  

Bob Oberreich

nvlh‘

Top right——Televising “A Christ-
mas Carol.” Above—Bob Ober—

reich, the ex-servieeman direc-
tor, plans action for a play
given by the New York Boys

Club. Right—First reading for

some of the members, Madi-
son Square Children’s Theatre.

wore it home. He wanted to sleep in it. He wanted to
wear it to school. It took pleadings, arguments and threats
to persuade him to disarm.

Bob Oberreich, the director, is an cx-soldier who founded
the theatre in 1947. He is a graduate of the American
Academy and the Theatre Wing Professional School and
has the knack of making play production a colorful and
exciting adventure for the youngsters.

They design their own sets, build them with flying ham-
mers and saws and paint them in bright reds, blues, yel-
lows and greens. Of course, they paint themselves and each
other in the process, but this is all part of the fun. Boh
makes it clear to the young players that good theatre is a
must. But he realizes that boys will bc boys and that each
has a personality decidedly his own. So the principal pur-
pose is to keep each youngster happily occupied at some-
thing he can do—and at something he can feel important
in doing well.

It never occurred to the director a few years ago that
any of his young actors would ever be in demand by the
professional theatre. But the work of the Madison Square
Children’s Theatre has gained such general recognition,
both here and in England, that dozens of its members
have appcared in movies, on television, on radio and in
the “March of Time” series. Last Christmas Eve, the
group was selected to present its beautiful full length pro-
duction of Dickens’ A Christmas Carol on television and
received wide acclaim for a spirited and polished perform-
ance.

But what is most important of all is that this little
theatre is an important event in the lives of little citizens
of New York’s lowcr East Side. It is a tremendously excit-
ing adventure into the realm of human relationships.
Above all, it teaches teamwork and democracy.

319

LET’S HAVE WORKSHOPS

Pointing out the need for reviving the old-fashioned,
good-neighbor kind of recreation in a modern setting.

CAN coon OLD neighborly recreation

be brought back in this day and
age? Can we get together as we used
to and sing, dance, play games and
make lovely things with our hands in
these hectic, commercial and competi-
tive times? Rural leaders are trying to
find the answer in rural recreation
workshops.

I have had the privilege of taking
part in several such workshops and
shall try to outline a model program
that will be of interest to city folk as
well as to country folk. The workshop
idea is for all recreation people. It is
theirs to use if they so wish.

Country people, for some time, have
felt a general dissatisfaction with the
recreation situation. The movie, tavern,
dance hall, football stadium, race track
and such are not satisfying basic social
needs—and this is vaguely sensed by
rural folk. Something fundamental, it
seems, is wrong; something vital is
missing. A number of leaders, con-
scious of the situation, are giving ar-
ticulate expression to the mood it has
cngendered. The recreation workshop
is a constructive attempt to remedy
matters.

City people, too, experience this
mood, but they are not so intimately
connected by memories to a good
neighborly past and they can more

 

ARTHUR KATONA is associate professor
of sociology, Colorado A & M College.

320

easily forget their feeling by running
to the many attractions near them.
This malaise is more than sentimen-
tal nostalgia. It is a healthy, profound
yearning for the warm, hearty, intimate

relationships known as fellowship,
camaraderie or neighborliness. All of
us at some time or another crave the
human touch, the warm heart, in our
relationships with others. Nowadays,
entrepreneurs have capitalized on this
yearning and its increasing frustration
in such enterprises as get-‘
acquainted exchanges, friendship clubs
and matrimonial agencies. National
firms, for instance, with branch offices
in the large cities, advertise their in-
troduction business. Moreover, this
malaise may be individual or group.
Individuals may feel lonesome and out
of sorts and, in a collective sense, so
may groups. A group, for want of fel-
lowship activities and relationships,
may feel estranged within and with-
out. There is no morale inside, we say,
and no spirit of neighborliness with
others.

The present emotional state results,
in large measure, from trends in rec-
reation which, in turn, reflect basic
economic and social changes. Industry
has replaced farming as a means of
making a living, and the urban way of.
life has superseded the rural. Socio-
logically speaking, the secondary group
is now the dominant social gathering,

cash

whereas the primary group was preva-

lent in the days of the farm and small
town. In other words, highly organ-
ized, formal, special interest groupings
have taken over the social field from
the spontaneous, informal, inclusive
groupings of yore. This is not to imply
that the “good old days” of simple
country living were an Utopia and that
the complex city life of today repre-
sents the falling of evil days upon us.
The rural-urban transition has ushered
in extremes which have severcly dam-
aged social values known to bc psycho-
logically and sociologically sound.

Outstanding among the trends in
recreation are commercialism, compc-
tition and exhibitionism. Thc (lcvelop-
ing extremes within them have made
these trends painfully blatant. A brief
survey of certain extremes may help
lhrow light on the damage done to so-
cial relations.

Commercialized recreation of itself
is not harmful. Certainly the theatre,
concert hall, baseball park, bowling al-
ley and similar business institutions
can, and do, provide excellent diver-
sion for many, many people. A tavern
may become a congenial social center,
a poor man’s club, as it were. It is
when too much fun is bought and sold,
when the market place becomes the
hub of recreation, when cold cash re-
places warm friendship as the basis of
play that harm is bcing done.

It is outside the scope of the prcsent
article to do anymore than mention the
emphasis on sex and violence in the
movies, the huckster motif in radio
programs, the unsavory aspects of
saloons, gambling joints and night
clubs and the racketeering in sports.
Writers John R. Tunis, Paul Gallico,
Bob Ruark and others have pointed
out various sports extremes, among

RECREATION

FOR FELLOWSHIP

which are gambling scandals such as
the recent basketball revelations; the
hypocritical professionalization of am-
ateur athletics, notoriously in the col-
leges; the boxing racket, with its toll
of deaths and brain concussions; and
the football circus, with its annual cr0p
of crippled gladiators.

Commercialism brings artificiality in
its wake. Gadgets, games, sports, songs,
dances, fads, sentiments, friendship it-
self, tend to be manufactured. That
which is homemade, creative, spontane-
ous, intimate seems to have less and
less significance in modern living. For
a price, one can buy friendships dis-
pensed by introduction agencies. In the
folk and square dance field today, new
couple and square dances are being
manufactured like tawdry ten-cent store
gadgets.

Competition, normally a healthy,
stimulating human relationship, has
been pushed to almost incredible ex-
tremes. A stepped-up drive to win has
gone beyond all former bonds of rea-
sonableness and decency. The life of
coaches has becomc a round of night-
mares, stomach ulcers and oustings,
t0pped off in some cases, it is said, by
a forced running out of town, a mod-
ern variant of outlawing. The ringer
deal, once haphazard and incidental in
the sports world, has become a huge
organized endeavor as athletes are bid
for, bought and delivered to our insti-
tutions of higher learning. Contests
have spread in number and variety to
such grotesque extremes as teeter-totter
marathons. At an annual state contest
orgy, in which square dancers, couple
dancers, fiddlers and callers vie with
one another, the dancers wear numbers
on their backs like footracers. The
ubiquitous queen contest has become

NOVEMBER 1951

an indispensable adjunct of the most
varied economic, social and recrea-
tional function.

In Information Service of May 12,
1951, there appeared one of the sad-
dest news stories on children’s play
ever told. Grade school youngsters gave
a square dance program, at the end
of which Parent-Teacher Association
judges announced the winners. What
would have been a wonderful time of
fun and frolic for all became a dismal
event for the majority, the losers.

Exhibitionism has gone rampant,
spurred in all directions by ballyhoo,
promotion and publicity. The spectator
and his money—the gate-———are catered
to, not the participant and his well-
being. An acceleration of thrills, sensa-
tions and novelties takes place in order
to keep the crowds coming. Basketball
is speeded up to give the audience big-
ger thrills, though the players are worn
to a frazzle. The square dance is made
more tricky and complicated so that
more exhibition sets can dazzle more
pe0ple. In this soil flourishes show-off
individualism.

A provocative analysis of these
trends in one field of recreation—the
square dance-———has been made by an
anonymous writer in an article,“Whith-
er ‘Western’ Square Dance?,” which

appeared in RECREATION for November
1950.

PeOple again must learn to get to-
gether and play as good neighbors did
in the days gone by. They need to learn
what folks long ago took for granted-—
singing together, playing party games,
dancing group dances, side-by-side
making fine things with their hands. A
rural recreation workshop stresses to-
getherness, the friendly sharing of fun.
A model program consists of group ac-

Arthur Katona

 

tivities. It is a recreational c00perative.

Group singing is certainly a must. It
almost has become a lost art in this
day and age of canned music. Tin Pan
Alley, with its manufactured tunes,
some time ago destroyed the people’s
ability to make their own songs. The
folk song no longer is the stirring heri-
tage of plain people, but a lovely mu-
seum piece dusted off when Tin-Pan
Alley needs a shot in the arm. Given
the opportunity, however, with enthusi-
astic leadership, people will sing to-
gether, for there is a deep hunger for
such musical communion. Those great
people’s institutions of Denmark, the
folk schools, spark their sessions with
songs out of the traditional folk culture
of the nation.

When people can let their hair down
and play jolly games together, theirs is
a good-neighbor joy of life. Most of
us, despite the artificial reserve of an
urban age, would love to let ourselves
go in the lusty abandon of a play party
game. We crave the tonic of its lively
antics, droll buffoonery and belly-deep
laughter. Again, we need the judicious
prodding of good leaders to get us
started. What group leader has not felt
that fine glow of satisfaction when he
draws timid, frozen souls into the play
circle and sees them thaw and turn
warmly merry in the fellowship of
fun? There are, of course, many dif-
ferent kinds of group ga1nes-—-games
suitable for various ages, dispositions
and occasions. The best are those in
which there is the greatest shared re-
lease. Here is another illustration of the
principle that one has to lose himself to

321

find himself.

Our dances, too, should yield a max-
imum of fun and fellowship. Group
dances—squares, circle mixers, line
dances (reels)—should be used. Evcry-
one may take part in these. The good
time is shared by all. Thc skilled danc-
ers share their skills with the others.
The dance becomes a communal activ-
ity as it traditionally was among many
agricultural and primitive peoples.

A most heartening instance of how
the square dance can transform next-
door strangers into jolly good neigh-
bors took place in a college faculty
apartment house. A young couple had
asked an instructor and his wife, the
instructor being an amateur square
dance caller, to teach them how to
square dance. The instructor said he
would, but that they would have to get
a set together. So the two wives pre-
vailed upon several other wives to drag
their reluctant husbands into a living-
room for a session. The initial gather-
ing turned out to be an uproarious par-
ty, with everybody kidding everybody
else and laughing off mistakes as part
of the fun. From that time on, for the
rest of the college year, the group met
once a week for their square dance
party. Refreshments were served at the
end of the dancing and, with everyone
resting comfortably in easy chairs, a
bull session would begin. The group
discussed pro and con campus topics,
world issues, family problems and

more. They argued differences, ex-
pressed contrasting points of view, cx-
changed ideas without the bickering
and ill-feeling that too often mar the
get-togethers of intellectuals. The good
time had warmed them up to a genial
acceptance of each othcr, differences
and all. And that is one of the marks
of true democracy.

Working side by side, making crafts
objects with our own hands, is the
nearest we can get to the quilting bees,
husking bees and barn raisings that
often were festive occasions in the past.
We all can make beautiful things if
given the chance, despite the prevalent
notion today that one has to have taI-
ent or genius in order to do so. Let us
remember that, in the old days, plain
folk were craftsmen and artists. Don’t
we nowadays pay a big price for an
antique that may be a piece of em-
broidery made by a housewife or a
chair made by a pioncer? Remember,
too, that this antique looks distinctive,
looks homemade—and wc should try
to have our work look homemade. It
should be our creation, a part of our-
selves, and not an imitation of the slick
gadgets of store and factory. I have
treated this matter at length in two
previous articles, “An Advcnture in
Home Decoration,” in Design for

March 1949 and “Art Begins at
Home,” in Design for March 1950.
The practical details of setting up a

recreation workshop, while involving

plenty of work to be sure, are amazing-
ly simple. Thc interestcd person or
pcrsons may begin by gctting in touch
with such organizations as schools, col-
leges, churches, youth ccntcrs, clubs,
c00pcratives and welfare departments
for help in lcadcrship, sponsorship and
participation. The workshop may be
held in a school gymnasium, church
basement, community center, lodge
hall or barn. It may last one or two
days ordinarily, more if extended into
a “school” or “institute.” Each of the
four basic activities may be allottcd a
quarter of the time, half of the morn-
ing or afternoon, or a morning or af-
ternoon, as the case may be, with ap-
propriate rest periods. If attendancc is
large, two activities may be scheduled
at the same time, each in a separate
room, with half the crowd assigned to
each activity. Of course, if the session
is long, say a week, the program will
be extended to include more songs,
games, dances and crafts, such details
as teaching techniques and, possibly,
such additional activities as discussion
meetings and dramatics. Along with
the encouragement of participation by
all, local lay leadership should be de-
veloped so that the activities will be
carried on after the workshOp is ovcr.

In a world that has bccome a sea of
troubles, good fellowship in recreation
may be a happy anchorage, for its own
sake, and as recuperation, so that we
may better c0pe with the sea.

Avalanche Control

 

322

0The growing use of the national forests
as winter sports centers has made it neces-
sary for the United States Forest Service to
give attention to avalanche prediction and
control. The best ski sites are potential ava-
lanche areas, and thc safety of skiers de-
pends upon the knowledge and skill of the
forest service personnel.

A training school in snow avalanchc fore-
casting and control was held in Alta, Utah,
attended by forest ofiicers from western
states. This was the first school of its kind
held in the United States. The instruction
was based upon knowledge gained during the
past ten years by forest service snow rangers

in Alta.

Trials conducted in c00peration with the
National Guard have definitely shown it to
bc feasible to use artillery projectiles to pre-
cipitate snow avalanches at a safe time. Nine
of these snow slides were brought down in
a period of a few minutes by firing scventy-
five-mm. shells at the release points. It would
have involved several days’ timc and con-
siderable hazard to have released these samc
slides by hand-set explosives. It is anticipated
that this method of avalanche control will be-
come common practice as a means of making
ski areas, mountain highways and railroads
safer during winter months.

RECREATION

 

 

 

 

Disturbed aim puts one in the rough. A player enlists the
aid of his pals in the inevitable search for a lost arrow.

Guess who won? For-

feited by the loser
just one malted milk

 

N A LAND where the Indians once stalked game and provided food by

means of the bow and arrow, the twang of the bow-string still can
be heard. Citizens of Faribault, Minnesota, have fallen in love with the
ancient sport of archery.

Its revival is the idea of Joe Crunz, energetic young director of Fari-
bault’s recreation department, who has set up an archery course in a
valley set aside for public sports.

The targets, unlike those sighted by the Indians centuries ago, do not
groan or shriek when an arrow finds its mark. They’re lifeless hunks of
hay covered by oilcloth bull’s-eyes, arranged in fourteen different ranges
and positions.

Joe’s archery “golf” course is a busy place of an evening. Archers
try to amass as many points as possible. A bull’s-eye is good for ten
points, with two points deducted for each circle farther away from the
target center.

There’s no charge by the city for this fun. Bows and arrows are sup-
plied in addition to expert instruction. And you’d think that the Indians
were back again, judging from thc war whoops when an archer’s arrow
hits dead center.

 

Reprinted from St. Paul Dispatch-Pioneer Press, whose columnist, DUNLAP,
who-dun-it author, shot his first arrow on this story and hit a bull’s-eye.

NOVEMBER 1951

Boy I. Dunlap

i

Junior bowmen help paek away equipment. This is one of the
must rules for playground archers, always rigidly enforced.

 

This father and daughter team forms
formidable combination as they take
prescribed stance before the target.

 

 

BECAUSE or SERIOUS accidents that

occurred on the school play-
grounds in Los Angeles, and the re-
sulting public protest against the use
of blacktop surfacing for its elemen-
tary play areas, the Los Angeles Board
of Education has undertaken a com-
prehensive study of the surfacing which
is used under apparatus. Widespread
public interest in the Los Angeles situ-
ation and concern as to types of play-
ground surfacing have resulted from
criticism of the Board of Education
and its play surfaces in a nationwide
broadcast. This included a prediction
that the board would be indicted for
involuntary manslaughter.

By way of background, it is to be
noted that many types of surfacing
were used on the playgrounds in Los
Angeles prior to 1940-41 when, after
considerable investigation, a program
of blacktopping school playgrounds
was initiated. By 1948-49, one hundred
ninety elementary schools, or about
sixty per cent of those in the district,
had been resurfaced in this manner. As
playgrounds were resurfaced, the areas
in and around the apparatus were in-
cluded.

At a meeting of the Board of Educa-
tion on May 21, 1951, it unanimously
adopted a recommendation by the
superintendent of schools that an ac-
tion, taken on May 14, 1951, inactivat-
ing all elementary school playground
apparatus, be continued for the re-
mainder of the present school year.
The earlier action followed a fatal
swing accident on one of the school
playgrounds. At its May 21 meeting,

324

the board also voted to appoint a spe-
cial committee to study playground
apparatus experience as affected by
ground surface covering under and
about the apparatus. Another extreme-
ly serious accident, occurring early in
June on a blacktop playground, ac-
centuated the importance of the prob-
lem. Some individuals urged removal
of all blacktop surfaces from school
playgrounds; others protested against
proposals to remove play equipment
from school areas.

The information which follows is
primarily based upon two statements:
(1) a report presented by the superin-
tendent, Alexander J. Stoddard, to the
board on May 24; (2) a report on
playgrounds submitted by the Citizens’
Advisory Committee on Playground
Surfaces, dated August 2, 1951. The
facts assembled by the Los Angeles
school authorities and the recommen-
dations of the citizens’ committee have
value for all who are responsible for
the construction and Operation of play-
grounds.

The Superintendent Reports

The superintendent stated that his
report had been prepared in response
to requests for accurate information
concerning the accident situation in the
Los Angeles elementary schools during
recent years. The statistics cover the
period since the school year 1931-32
because it includes approximately ten
years before and after the blacktOp
program was begun. It was pointed out

that the facts and statements are not
presented in the report in an attempt

to settle the question of blacktop sur-

Playground Accidents

facing, but that the report would afford
a justification for this type of surface.
The hope was expressed that the report
would be helpful to the recently-ap-
pointed citizens’ committee and to par-
ents and other citizens.

Results of a survey of the fifty cities
with a population of 200,000 and over,
with respect to their school play-
grounds, were summarized as follows:

1. Of all fifty cities over 200,000
population, twenty-seven have blacktop
hard surface under and around all, or
a substantial part of, playground ap-
paratus.

2. Ten of the larger cities have no
playground apparatus.

3. Nine of the larger cities have
some covering other than blacktop
hard surface under and around appara-
tus, although, in four cases, the cover-
ing reported was a form of hard sur-
face.

4. Of the twenty-seven cities using
blacktOp hard surface, only two report-
ed any community or other objection
to its use.

An analysis also was presented of an
investigation made in 1950 of twenty-
nine school systems, involving seven-
ty-three individual schools in the vicin-
ity of Los Angeles. The types of ap-
paratus found in these schools werc
essentially the same as thosc at the Los
Angeles elementary schools, with this
exception: a merry-go-round, teeters
and parazontal bars were found at sev-
eral of the schools. These types of ap-
paratus provide Opportunities for
such action as climbing, hanging, slid-
ing and swinging.

RECREATION

This information was compiled by George Butler, chair-
man of thc National Committee on Surfacing. Mr. But-
ler is research director, National Recreation Association.

Prompt Surfacing Study

A resume of the findings showed
that:

1. Of the twenty-nine school systems
studied, the following only have black-
top hard surfacing under all apparatus:

Barstow Glendale
Bloomington Ontario
Castaic Redondo Beach

South Pasadena
2. Long Beach is the only school
system that consistently uses sand un-
der apparatus. (However, it should be
noted that San Diego uses blackt0p.)

San Bernardino

3. Santa Monica uses sand under ap-
paratus at most schools, although one
school has blacktop hard surfacing un-
der its apparatus.

4. Pasadena uses blacktop hard sur-
facing under all apparatus except the
horizontal bars and the landing area
of the slide, where sand is provided.

5. Burbank has blacktOp under some
pieces, sand under some and hard de-
composed granite surfacing under
others.

6. Beverly Hills has blacktop under
all apparatus except under horizontal
ladders and bars.

7. In a large number of the schools
in small communities in the vicinity of
Los Angeles, part of the playgrounds
are surfaced with blacktOp and part
with decomposed granite or native soil;
some of the apparatus is on blacktop

and some on granite or native soil.

8. 0f the fifty-two schools having

part dirt and part blackt0p surfacing,
it was found that:

Nineteen schools had only blackt0p
hard surfacing under apparatus;
eighteen schools had more than fifty

NOVEMBER 1951

per cent of all equipment on black-
top hard surfacing; fifteen schools
had less than fifty per cent of all the
equipment on blacktop surfacing.
9. The extent to which blacktop hard
surfacing, decomposed granite or na-
tive soil was used under apparatus——as
compared to sand or shavings—in all

. schools studied, is as follows (figures

arranged in order listed above) :

Swings 57% 37% 6 %
Climbing Trees 57% 41% 2%
Traveling Rings 53% 38% 9 %
Horizontal Ladders 32 % 42 % 26 %
Horizontal Bars 9 % 53% 38%
Slides 43% 39 % 18 %

The rate of accidents at elementary
schools before and after the blacktop
surfacing was installed also was re-
corded. It was shown to remain fairly
uniform throughout the period from
1931 to 1949, and at no time during
this period did the accident rate reach
the high point of 1931-32, when there
was no blackt0p on the school grounds
and when sand and sawdust were un-
der a large portion of the apparatus.

In order to reduce the accident fig-
ures to a common basis, account was
taken of (a) number of accidents, (b)
number of pupil school-days and (c)
number of pieces of apparatus. The fol-
lowing table shows the accident rate

per one hundred pieces of apparatus

for 100,000 student days for' each
school year between 1931 and 1949.

Year Rate Year Rate
1931-32 .055 1940—41 .035
-33 .034 -42 .035

-34 .030 -43 .044

-35 .029 -44 .026

-36 .028 -45 .028

-37 .027 —46 .026

-38 .028 -47 .054

-39 .035 -48 .043

-40 .041 -49 .035

A table giving facts relating to the
eleven fatalities which occurred during
the twenty-one year period shows that
the two most recent fatalities seem to
have been related in some manner to_
the blacktop surfacing under play-
ground apparatus. It is pointed out,
however, that in spite of the increasing
amount of such surfacing, there was

no fatality between 1940 and 1948 that

was connected in any way with it. Re-
grettable as every serious accident is,
“it must be remembered that during
the past twenty-one years there has
been an average of 37,000,000 pupil-
school-days each year, or a total of
777,000,000 pupil-school-days of play-
ground use.” In commenting upon the
severity of accidents, the superintend-
ent reported that in the Los Angeles
city elementary schools, for the school
year 1949-50, there were one and eight-
tenths days lost per major accident, as
against the national elementary school
severity-rate of two and nine-tenths
days lost per major accident for the
same year. So few fatalities occurred,
and the conditions involved in them
were so varied, that it is diflicult to
generalize on the causes.

The report stated that evidence indi-
cates that the local school principals
are overwhelmingly in favor of black-
tOp surfacing under playgrounds and
around playground apparatus. Never-
theless, the Board of Education has ex-
pended more than $20,000 on experi-
ments with other types of surfacing
during the past two years. Statements

from a number of principals are quot-
ed and they reveal that blacktOp sur?

325

facing is SUperior to other types for-
merly in use. Among the reasons most
commonly cited are that a loose ma-
terial gives the child a false sense of
security, that boxes and other types of
enclosures for loose materials under
apparatus constitute a constant hazard
and that sand and other materials tend
to be Spread upon the paved main
areas, thereby causing children to slide
and fall. It seems reasonably clear that
some of the principals praise blacktOp
in contrast to the bad dusty conditions
that formerly existed, rather than be-
cause of its inherent good qualities. It
seems possible that a number of them
favor it primarily because it simplifies
the problem of playground mainte-
nance.

In his concluding statement, the su-
perintendent admitted: “The general
conclusion of those who are most fa-
miliar with this problem is that the
major factor is not whether the surfac-
ing on the playgrounds under and
around the apparatus is dirt or sand
or wood shavings or blacktop. The
major problem is one of pupil instruc-
tion on proper usage and adequate
and thorough supervision and control
by the instructional and supervisory
staff.

“There is a very strong opinion
among the school people that pupils
can be instructed to care for them-
selves more effectively, and that a more
efficient program of supervision and
control can be carried on when some
such surfacing as blacktOp permits
more permanent arrangements for
usage and continuity of program. In
other words, teachers and supervisors
and principals have found that black-
top hard surfacing actually promotes
safety. The facts that have been given
in this report bear out their experi-
ence.

“It would be natural for a layman,
who has not had extensive experience
with actual playgrOUnd conditions, to
look at blacktOp hard surfacing and im-
mediately draw the conclusion that it
must be more dangerous because it is
hard. But a more careful analysis of
the situation necessitates a considera-
tion of all the conditions that enter the
problem and leads to the conclusion
that the answer involves much more

326

than simply contrasting the hardness
of surfaces.”
The Citizens’
Advisory Committee Reports

The committee appointed to make a
study of playground apparatus and
surfacing, and to make recommenda-
tions for such changes or adjustments
in the present policy or practice as they
deemed necessary, was composed of
thirty members. Ten were members of
the school staff appointed by the Board
of Education on the recommendation
of the superintendent; ten were per-
sons appointed by the Tenth District
Congress of Parents and Teachers; and
the others were members-at-large ap-
pointed by the other twenty. Creat care
was taken in selecting 'the personnel,
who represented a wide range of ex-
perience and interest. Committee mem-
bers were asked to make their deci-
sions upon the basis of the facts in-
volved and to serve individually and
independently without regard for
group or affiliation. A total of fifteen
committee meetings was held in accord-
ance with the schedule and a large
number of consultants and experts were
interviewed. They included turf con-
sultants, ground maintenance experts,
physicians and surgeons, safety engi-
neers, physiologists, an engineering
professor and a recreational executive.
Comments of most experts were record-
ed on tape and filed with the board.

“The committee examined many ma-
terials, such as bitumul mixed with
each of the following substances: cork,
sawdust and rubber. Insulating cork
blocks, various types of sponge rubber,
sand shavings and plastic materials al-
so were examined. The doctors, safety
experts and other specialists who were
consulted all varied in their Opinions
as to the suitability and practicability
of these substances.

“Because of the many varying Opin-
ions, the committee visited several
school sites to observe the different
types of experimental materials which
were installed at these locations.

“This procedure was considered most
important owing to the fact that the
original cost of any installation recom-
mended by this committee must be
considered together with its durability,
the effectiveness of the material to pre-

vent accidents or to afford protection,
the maintenance of the material and
what, if any, are some of the added
or potential hazards which this type
of installation might create.”
Conclusions

Conclusions reported by the commit-
tee on the basis of the procedures pre-
viously outlined and the information
procured were:

1. The inherent desire of children to
participate in the recognized physical
education and playground activities in
the schools and the importance of the
physical and social values gained from
these experiences indicate that there
should be provided a well-planned, or-
ganized and complete program of phys-
ical education and recreation for pu-
pils. Apparatus activities are an inte-
gral part of this program and should
be included.

2. Some type of shock absorbing
material should be placed underneath
apparatus.

3. Blacktop is a suitable and desir-
able surfacing material to be used on
playgrounds other than under ap-
paratus.

4. Supervision and instruction in
the proper use of apparatus are essen-
tial and most important factors in the
reduction of accidents.

5. More accurate
needed on the absorptive qualities of

information is

materials investigated before a specific
recommendation can be made of any
particular substance for use underneath
playground apparatus.

6. Serious injuries owing to falls re-
sult from the manner in which the
body strikes the surface and are not
necessarily caused by the type of sur-
face upon which the fall occurs. How-
ever, the use of an absorptive material
under apparatus would probably lessen,
to some degree, the severity of injuries
from falls.

7. The general program of physical
education and playground activities,
together with the apparatus activities,
establishes the need for two distinct
areas on school grounds:

a. General game and court areas in which
the playing surface is directly related to
the playing of the game. This includes
softball, kickball, volleyball, basketball,
tctherball, four squares and so on.

b. Those areas in which physical education
apparatus is located. Activity on this ap-

RECREATION

paratus is indirectly affected by the surface
underneath. This includes:

Primary Grades (kindergarten, first and
second grades)

Multiple climbing trees

Horizontal ladders

Low bars

Swings

Slides

Intermediate and Upper Elementary
Grades (third through sixth grades)
Traveling rings

Climbing poles

Horizontal ladders

Giant strides

The recommendations of the com-
mittee, which follow, are concerned
with the areas listed above.

Recommendations:

1. That some type of protective ma-
terial, capable of absorbing the shock
of a falling body, he installed, at the
earliest possible time, under the follow-
ing picces of equipment and in the fol-

lowing order:

a. Multiple climbing trees (kindergarten
and primary grades).

b. Horizontal ladder (kindergartcn and
primary grades).

c. Two low bars (kindergarten and pri-
mary grades).

d. Traveling rings (grades three through
six).

6. glimbing poles (grades three through
51: .

f. Horizontal ladders (grades three
through six).

g. Swings (primary grades).

 

N OVEMBEn 1951

h. Giant strides (grades three through
six).

i. Slides (kindergarten and primary
grades).

The following materials were studied
and considered:

Bitumul mixed with cork
Bitumul mixed with sawdust
Bitumul mixed with rubber

Cork blocks

Rubber of such types as sponge, tile and
so on

Sand

Shavings

Tanbark

Turf

Vinyl substances
The Specific material selected for use

beneath apparatus will necessarily have
to be dctermined By’the height of each
piece of equipment, thc purpose. for
which the apparatus is to be'used, the
suitability of the material and the cost
of material in each instance. It is urged
that one or morc of these or similar
materials be selected for installation by
the Board of Education upon the
recommendation of the physical educa-
tion staff and the business division on
or before Septcmber 1, 1951.

2. That playground apparatus listed
in Item 1 of {these recommendations
should not be reactivated until suitable
protective materials are provided over

\

blacktop bencath thc apparatus.

3. That blacktop be used on the gen-
eral play area, other than under ap-
paratus, and be retained as a standard
type surface.

4. Thfit the activities listed in Item
7a. of the conclusions be reinstituted
wherever discontinued.

5. That the Board of Education es-
tablish required standards for yard
supervision by classroom teachers dur-
ing the. entire school day. Emphasis
likewise. should be ’placed upon a
strong and continuing instructional
program in the proper use of each
piece of playground apparatus as the
equipment is returned to use after hav-
ing protective surfacing installed.

6. That the school district continue
to seek information leading to the de-
velopment of more satisfactory cush-
ioning materials than are now avail-
able. Engineering research depart-
ments of the various local universities
and industries should be solicited to
participate in this research program.

7.’ That all the minutes of the meet-
ings of this committee be made a part
of this report.

Conservation

A FARSI’GHTED GROUP of American scientists has estab-
lished an organization called the Nature Conservancy, with
headquarters in Washington, D.C., and now is inviting
cveryone interested to join. lts objective is to encourage
the formationmfor permanent preservation and study—
of those nature reserves which still are in their original
state and also small areas with unusual plant or animal
life or geologic features. In addition to their obvious use
in the study of basic biological research, these virgin
tracts of land will one day be of incomparable interest as
the sole survivors of the Amcrica that was. The impor-
tant thing is to save as many of the diverse types as pos-
sible-——n0w.—John Bertram for the New York Times.

 

327

 

Fig. I-Gift wrapping paper makes
this design in green and gold.

TO MAKE THE CARDS describcd here requires no special

training, talent or expensive materials. A most pleas-
ing card can be made from a sheet of writing paper and
a small scrap of gift wrapping paper, construction paper
or even crepe paper! With the addition of a Christmas
seal or two, sometimes a bit of ribbon and a personalized
verse, samples of which have been included here, a card
can be made that is novel and unique—one that will be
sent with pride and received with pleasure.

With each of the above sample “fill-in” verses, no other
signature is needed. Write the verse in a color of ink that
blends in with the rest of the card. Add your Christmas
seals after placing the verse, for it sometimes happens that
one of the margins around the verse is unintentionally
made too wide and will accommodate a seal placed in its
center.

School or Club Colors

Cards made in school or club colors are attractive and
appropriately different. Almost any plain white paper that
will take ink may be used if it is not too flimsy. To make
a card of double thickness (Figure 1), fold a sheet of
writing paper crosswise through the center and then fold

MRS. MURPHY, now a housewife, has taught school in
three digerent states; her hobby—originating party ideas.

328

Easy-to-Make

Sample Fill-In Verses

The best of Christmas wishes
From ( Mary Surname) to you—
May the joy of the Yuletide
Gladden the New Year too.

From (Junior to Grandmother)
Comes this greeting sincere

For a very Merry Christmas
And a Happy New Year.

Here’s a Christmas greeting
From (Mary and John) to you—-
And may your New Year be
Happy all the way through.

The ( Smith Family—ail three) wish you
Loads and Ioads of Y uletide cheer

And many, many happy days

All throughout the coming year.

this double sheet through the centcr again.

The regular boxed stationery that comes with matching
envelopes is perfect for this purpose. It comes already
folded once and needs only to be folded again through
the center to make a card of the right size to fit the en-
velope. The heavier quality of paper is better for this pur-
pose. Tinted paper should not be used, because colored
ink shows up more vividly against a white background.
Likewise, a design made from colored paper is much more
effective upon a white card.

The three most difficult colors to handle in a design
are gold, black and white. Usc one of these in combination
with another color.

When One of the Colors Is Cold . . .

The Christmas stocking design shown on the card in
Figure l was made from gift wrapping paper. The larger
stocking was cut from gold paper; the smaller one, from
green gift wrapping paper with a satin finish. The smaller
stocking was then pasted onto the larger one so as to
make a border of gold around the green.

Instead of using paste or mucilage with this kind of
paper, better results will be obtained by using a ten-cent
bottle of clcar fingernail polish. It gives a smoother, neater
appearance to the finished card and will hold indefinitely.

RECREATION

Florence L. Murphy

Christmas Cards

Apply it sparingly to the under edges of the smaller stock-
ing. Any slight unevenness in the border can be trimmed
off with the scissors after pasting. A small Christmas seal,
preferably a Santa Claus head with white whiskers and a
bright red cap, placed near the top of the stocking, adds
just the right Christmas touch.

The design now is ready to be pasted onto the front of
the card. Note the slightly tilted position, with the toe
turned towards the lower right-hand corner. Again linger-
nail polish is used—this time under the edge of the larger
stocking, except across the tep, which is left open for the
tiny note that is seen protruding from the stocking. Be-
fore the “paste-polish” has had time to dry, slip the note
in and out, to make sure that the opening is wide enough.
Then leave the note out for a few minutes until the polish
is thoroughly dry, so as to avoid the possibility of its be-
coming glued in with the design.

Cut the note from plain white writing paper; fold it
through the center and write the name of the town in
which you live (or the name of your school) at the top,
so that it will be visible on the part of the note that ex-
tends above the stocking. On this card, green ink was
used to write the verse across the two inside pages, as
shown in Figure 3.

Make your own patterns, which may be used indefinitely,
by doing a simple drawing of a stocking in two sizes, as

in Figure 1.

When One of the Colors Is Black . . .

For a red and black design, use a stocking made from
red construction paper, with a Bible or any other book,
made from black construction paper, protruding from its
tep. Write the title of the book at the tOp, using either
gold or white ink. Decorate the top with a white snowman
seal. Library paste should be used with this type of paper.

If you are using a card that opens along the right-hand
edge, paste the stocking in the same position as shown for
the design in Figure 1. If you are using a card that opens
at the bottom, paste the design in the same position as
shown for the crepe paper stocking in Figure 2, and write
the words “MERRY CHRISTMAS” with black ink (pref-
erably India ink), as shown. The fill-in verse used with this
red and black design also should be written with black
ink. A small red Christmas seal (poinsettia), pasted in
the widest margin, brightens the page and helps to carry

NOVEMBER 1951

 

Fig. 2—This crepe paper stocking holds
a stick of chewing gum.

 

Fig. 3—Fill-in verse written across both inside
pages. Small Christmas seals used for decoration.

 

Fig. 4—Fill-in verse written on lower half of card.
Ribbons and a Santa Claus seal used for decoration.

Fig. 5—Cift wrapping
paper with an all-over

design covers front
and back of this card.

 

out the red and black color scheme.

\Vhen One of the Colors Is \Vhite . . .

The card designed in green and white, Figure 2, uses a
Christmas stocking made from green erepe paper, letting
the background of the card supply the needed white.

To make this crepe paper stocking, use only the larger
stocking pattern. Place the pattern upon the double thick-
ness of the paper, with the length of the stocking cross-
wise, and cut two stockings of the same size. Then stitch
the two together along the edges, except the top, using
thread of a matching color. A sewing machine can be
used for this. Decorate the top of this stocking with a
small, colorful Christmas sea], as shown. It now is ready
to be pasted into position upon the card, using library
paste. A small dab of the paste at the heel, at the tip of
the toe and under each corner at the t0p of the stocking
is all that will be needed to hold it firmly in place. Figure
2 shows this design used upon a double thickness card,
opening at the bottom. The stocking thus designed from
crepe paper has enough stretch to it to hold either a stick
of chewing gum or a folded check or paper money, and

makes a most welcome card.

Decorative Ribbons

For those who would like to try them, ribbons in school
or club colors, to match the cover design, add a decorative
touch and can be used in either corner of a card. Figure
4- shows the inside pages of the card designed in green
and white (Figure 2), the green and white ribbons about
a fourth of an inch wide, in the upper right-hand corner.

Use a paper puncher to make two holes through only
one thickness of the paper—so that the ribbons will not
show on the front design. Cut the ribbons about three
inches long; run them through the first hole from the in-
side; then across underneath to the second hole and back
through to the inside page as shown. The ribbons should
now be pressed into position with the fingers before trim-
ming off the ends to eonfOrm to the edges of the card. A
Christmas seal may be fitted into the Space between the
ribbon holes—a full-length Santa Claus, for instance. If
placed so that his pack fits into this Space, he gives the im-

Sporr — Fun — Exercise

in TRAMPOUNING

By NISSEN — Maker of America's
First Standard TRAMPOLINE

uns‘§.A-M-P-0-l;|-N.E

°Name TRAMPOLINE Beg. U.S. Pat. Off.

 

200 A AVE. NW. CEDAR RAPIDS, IOWA

330

 

pression that he is walking across the page, carrying the
school colors in the pack upon his back.

All-Over Designs

One of the most attractive and easy-to-make cards is the
all-over design, as shown in Figure 5. This is made by
covering white notepaper (both front and back pages)
with gift wrapping paper.

Write your Christmas greeting verse across the two in-
side pages of the notepaper. Then cut the designed paper
about half an inch larger than the size of the notepaper
when it is opened out flat. Paste the notepaper to the inside
of the designed paper, with the edges of the latter extend-
ing beyond the edges of the former.

Again we use a ten-cent bottle of clear fingernail polish
for that smooth, neat appearance for the finished eard.
Apply the polish sparingly under the edges of the note-
paper and place it in position upon the design paper. Be-
fore it has time to dry, Open and close the card, a time or
two, smoothing out all wrinkles as you do so. When dry,
trim off the extended edges of the designed paper with
scissors, using the edges of the notepaper as guidelines.
In this way, a much neater, straighter edge will result,
and the card will have the appearance of having been
made from only one thickness of paper.

Try interesting designs with Christmas seals, too. One
large, heavy Christmas seal, with a sheen to it, or one
in bright colors, makes an attractive design when used
alone upon the front of a card. In making a design with
several small seals, choose one for the center. None should
be sealed in place, however, until the desired effect has
been obtained by arranging and rearranging the seals.
With such an endless variety of styles, sizes, shapes and
colors from which to choose each year, designs can be pat-
terned to fit any mood—gay, frivolous, serious or devout.

Triple Folds with Snapshots

A card that is doubly welcomed by persons away from
home at Christmastime is one with a snapshot of family
or friends. The triple-fold card has space for the picture
on the first inside page, with the verse written across the
other two pages. To make this, use heavy writing paper,
cutting it down to ten and one-half by five and one-half
inches. Fold it crosswise at places marked three and one-
half inches from both the left and the right edges. Any
of the designs previously described may be used to deco-
rate the outside front page. Before pasting the snapshot
in the center of the first inside page, be sure to trim off
all the white border from around the picture. The back-
ground of the page then will make a nice mounting for it.

Mailing Your Cards

After making your cards, be sure that they will be de-
livered by addressing them properly. A card with the verse
written or printed by hand is first-class mail and, as such,
must carry the regular letter rate of postage, whether
sealed or unsealed. F irst-elass mail always is given first
consideration, with every effort made to effect delivery to
the addressee. Failing in that, it will be returned to the

sender if the return address is written upon the envelope.

RECREATION

I, Mrs. Ples Harper

  

CHILDREN
PHONE

SANTA

HAVE YOU, as a child, ever wanted to give Santa a ring

at Christmastime? Or have you callcd your little boy
or girl and tried to pretend that you were Santa Claus? Or
have you had a friend call in order that you might listen
in and find out what your children wanted for Christmas?
Well, a strange thing happened in Canyon, Texas, last holi-
day season.

Canyon is a small town in the Panhandle of Texas, and
you would hardly think old Santa could find it Christmas
morning. Well, you are wrong; for Santa found Canyon
almost a week before he was scheduled to make his yearly
trip. Through an arrangement with the telephone company
and the recreation department, all the children in Canyon
were permitted to call Santa Claus just by asking the Oper-
ator for Santa at the North Pole. In fact, 266 young peo-
ple made that important call.

In talking with the jolly old fellow, the children heard
music and the helpers making the toys, and even talked
with Mrs. Santa as she was busily filling orders. Some of
the children should be quiz masters, for Santa was con-
fronted with such questions as: How many reindeers have
you? What do you feed them? When do you eat? How
many helpers have you? Why is Rudolph’s nose red? Do
you know where my grandmother lives because I will be
there Christmas morning? Do you know I have a new
sister?

Santa talked with the young pe0ple as if he were living
right here in Canyon. He knew so many of them by their
first names and what he had brought them last year. He
asked them if they had a tree this year . . . told them to be
sure to leave the front door open for him. A number of
the parents had to call Santa so he could tell the children
to leave the front door Open only on Christmas morning,
and not every day and every night. Santa was a great help
to many mothers of Canyon—getting the children to take
their naps and telling them to be sure to obey their par-
ents and to go to bed early, or else he might miss their
homes on Christmas.

From the semi-annual report of the Canyon Community
Recreation Department.

NOVEMBER 1951

The tclephone opcrators had to be ready with some
clever answers, too, throughout the three days the children
were allowed to call. The phones were kept so busy that the
children wanted to know why their calls did not go right

through to thc North Pole. The operators had to remind
them that Santa had to keep the ice off the backs of the
reindeer. He had to doctor Rudolph’s cold which, by the
way, is the reason his nose is red. Santa may be at the
post office getting his mail. He could be helping Mrs. Santa
fill orders. And, don’t forget, he has to spend a lot of
time working on the route he is to take on Christmas.

Santa Claus reports that his talks with the Canyon chil-
dren were wonderful; and, who knows, he may again be
able to talk with them this year. In fact, with the fine
cooperation of the telephone operators and the recreation
department, Santa may have a direct wire to Canyon this
Christmas.

Other Canyon Christmas Program Features

While all the above was going on, the Canyon Music
Arts Club and the recreation department joined in spon-
soring an outdoor community sing on the courthouse lawn
on the evening of December twenty-third. The program
was an outgrowth of three previous indoor community
choir programs which the club had sponsored.

Mr. Massey, of the recreation department, had arranged
Christmas decorations on the courthouse, placing a well-
lighted nativity scene on the roof, a large Christmas trcc
on the ground (loancd by West Texas State College) and
a huge wreath over the front windows (loaned by the Mu-
sic Arts Club).

The program included a bugle call from the roof, a male
quartet singing carols from a balcony, some introductory
carols broadcast 011 the chimes from the Methodist Church
and a Special number by the junior high school choir. The
choir was arranged in single file on the fire escape, wear-
ing white scarves and caps, and making a very decorative
zigzag from the ground to the roof of the building.

About two hundred persons gathered to sing, and ac-
companiments were played on a reed organ loaned by the
Baptist Church. The space around the courthouse was
filled with cars of listeners. As the climax to the closing
song, “Joy to the World,” the youngsters on the fire escape
turned sparkling letters toward the crowd. They spelled
out “Merry Christmas.”

 

331

   
     
  

-\ young master of mechanical science puts
on a moving picture show with a homemade
film, revolving on two rolls—one at each
side of the “screen.” The machine can be
made by the average bOy or girl at a wood-
work bench. The plot and “scenario” were
dreamed up by the children themselves. It
is safe to say that much of the fun is in
the making. Double features are the rule.

      
    

It doesn’t take movies—but
youngsters enthralled. Th
sometimes held in a nearby
These play school children
hood library once a week.

77%?

lay is the business of childhoo
ing child through which he im'
ment. It is a way of practicing what he

This urge for dramatic play continues in teen-age. The The accompanying PhOtOgl'a-phs
older children become, the more they look for something City and are reproduced here throl
important to do—sueh as printing a newspaper and meet- . _

ing deadlines. Many school children take a keen inter— tlon,  WCSt Flfty-SCVCDth Street,
est in getting out a “real” paper, replete with editorials, has available for fifteen cents a list
poetry, news stories and “art.” This, also, is a way of “prae- . i . ’

tieing what they are learning.” A newspaper offers Oppor- chlldren Of SChOOl age—whlch ShOlllC

tunities for deveIOpment of varied talents.

These two brothers, having outlined a
project for themselves, are busily en-
gaged in getting it under way. They made
their own observations, a plan of the
mural, and have painted every inch of
it themselves. Still in their early teens,

"I f‘ g (.2
“WP.

the boys have learned many of the teeh— This all began with It
niques necessary for working together to Blocks of all sizes am
complete the joh in good order as well of materials for use by
as to the satisfaction of all. The mural out dreams and observal
project promotes originality. must equal developme-n

fl

 

    
     
  
 

Most children love to play grocery store—
boys behind. the counter'handing out pack-
ages and girlsl~ doing the sh0pping. Makc-
believe market may be -made from pieces of
old wood or eardboard; covering for fruit
“stands from cast-off awnings or cven old
sheets, painted with water colors. Chancc
for dressing “in grownjup clothes proves a
most cxciting part ofrsuch “pretend” play.

 

_‘_— f

ad old-fashioned book—to hold
1g like the storytclling hour,
absorb an eager young mind.
storytelling lady at neighbor-

of the major patterns of the develop-
1d dramatizes his immediate environ-
].ing and playing out how he feels . . . ”

Len taken in play schools in New York

| . Thc child of ten or elevcn years wants to be useful, and
Icourtesy of the Play Schools Assoma- does his best to lcarn real, grown-up skills. Handling a

)rk 19 New, York That organization saw, hammer and nails gives the deepest satisfaction.
, .

. Though these children appear to be earnest, they are in
:ment and supplles fOI' play centers for reality having great fun, especially when making things

luable t0 recreation leaders to send to toyless children overseas. Girls, as well as boys,
prove adept with these tools, and frequently prefcr a wood-
working project to more feminine occupations.

Even Bve-year-olds learn to handle a
needle and thrcad—of a type just right
for untrained eyes and uninitiated fingers.
Even for the boys, this is fun; and es-
pccially so whcn they, too, are making
an animal toy to send to a child overseas.

 

which grew and grew. Also, those who do not have real pets
provide the right kind are oftcn interested in making toy dogs
age children in carrying and cats and those animals seen at the
quipment for each group zoo and on thc farm. For youngsters, ani-

mals hold grcat interest.

 

German Leaders.

A TRAINING CONFERENCE on com- of workers, and of free-time cultural

munity recreation, sponsored by the
oflice of the United States High Com-
missioner for Germany, for the whole
American Zone, was held at the Haus
Schwalbach in Hesse from January
4-10, 1951. Reports of this confer-
ence are of interest to recreation lead-
ers in America because they afford
a comparison between the objectives
and procedures in Germany and in
the United States and indicate the in-
fluence of American leadership in the
development of democratic ideals and
action in the American Zone.

The conference was attended by
approximately sixty German experts,
from all parts of Germany, represent-
ing local youth and sports organiza-
tions, education and welfare depart-
ments, city planning and architectural
offices, church and civic groups, pri-
vate and governmental agencies, rural
and urban districts. Present were ar-
chitects, teachers, youth workers, kin-
dergarten leaders, sports and play~
ground directors, community center
leaders, adult education advisors,
church workers, physical educators.
About thirty city oHicials and other
county guests also were present at the
closing session.

The main emphasis of the confer-
ence was upon local responsibility for
recreation for all ages and interests,
and the coordinated planning of citi-
zens groups with local government in
obtaining facilities, leadership, legisla-
tion, finance and public acceptance to
make recreation possible as a free
community service. The economic im-
portance of recreation to the produc-
tive capacity, as well as the happiness,

334

and physical programs as a counter~
balance to long hours of work was
emphasized.

The conference was conducted under

the leadership of Austin J. Welch,
Chief of Youth and Community Ac»
tivities Advisors under HICOG. The
main topics were treated in four work-
shops on facilities, programs, leader-

ship and finance, led respectively by
C. P. L. Nicholls of the Los Angeles

Recreation and Parks Department;
Jay Ver Lee, Superintcndent of Recre-
ation, Colorado Springs, Colorado;
Miss Elizabeth Wilson, formerly on the
City Recreation Department staff in
Louisville and now in Germany; and
Jack Houlihan of the Philadelphia
Community Chest.

Mr. Welch concluded his introduc~
tion to the conference, which dealt with
the question, “What is Community
Recreation?,” with the following:

“Recreation has significance here
now in Germany, where the people-—
because of long years of war, the pri-
vations following after the war and,
at present, sustained anxiety over the
world situation—are jaded by fear,
sometimes beyond the ability to be
creative or capable of joy. The mental
health of individuals and the nation
demands it. Recreation is no panacea
for all economic and social ills, but it
can be a vital force in forging the
happiness and freedom of a people.”

The presentation by the American
leaders contained littlc that is new to
readers of RECREATION, but the sum-
mary reports presented by German
lcaders, in several cascs representing
committee discussions, shed much light

upon current thought and action in
Germany.

It was pointed out that, “when con-
sidering the professional carecr of a
recreation leadcr, we must not for-
get the great importancc of the volun-
tary workers. Not only will youth lead-
ers, parents and teachers facilitate thc
work of the program director, but thc
whole success of a program in a com-
munity center will depend largely upon
the community’s participation in thc
planning and conducting of the pro-
gram. These voluntary workers also
will express the need for some training.
This would probably mean short-term
and in-service training.”

The importance of assuring profes-
sional status for recreation leadership
also was a matter of concern, “for a
pcrson who does not feel recognized
and secure in his job will not bc able
to have a guiding, helping and stimu-
lating effect upon others. The recrea-
tion leader must not he paid only as
a janitor.”

It was further stated:

“The greatest difficulty seems to bc
that the importance of such a profes-
sion must be interpreted to thc wide
public with all of its implications. The
public must learn to understand that,
cspccially in our times, thc recreation
leader is a necessary supplementation
to the home, the school and the church
—that is to say that he does an im-
portant educational work.

“For, through play, the child lcarns
to assume responsibility, get along with
others, respect the opinion of others
and help those who are weaker than

he.
“Thus we hope that this great Sig'

RECREATION

Discuss Community Recreation

nificance of recreation program and
lcaders soon will be realized by many
communities and cities, for youth and
adults will lead happier and more
contented lives if they have an oppor-
tunity to find relaxation and joy in
the recreation program of their com-
munity, to balance school and work
and the worries of everyday life.”
The importance of cooperation was
stressed in a report on program plan-
ning. “To get a very broad and varied
participation of the whole population,
it is important to find the right form
of administration and program plan-
ning. This only can be done by close
cooperation in planning between the
two parts. A possible solution of this
problem would be a recreation com-
mittee composed of laymen among citi—
zens, youth, representatives of schools,
organizations and city administration.
It is, however, important that these
selected members have an intensive in-
terest in the recreation program. It
should be the responsibility of this
committee to work out the policies for
a year-round program, which should
be put into realization by a full-time
recreation director, with his staff and
volunteers. There would be a good so-
lution of the administration problem
if the director also could be responsi-
ble for the administration of those
fields which closely are related to the
recreation program, such as: sports,
youth, administration of sports and
playfields, and parks. This would guar-
antee the best possible coordination.”
The report likewise pointed out that,
in small communities, possibilities can
be found in the reawakening of old
customs and traditions, dances, music

NOVEMBER 1951

"RIeInIu-rs gave evidence of having grasped

a good understanding oflllleiAn-lerican phi:
losoplly of pnblic recreation.” ’

 

and plays. In respect to the need for
care in initiating a program under
government auspices:

“The groups with an ideological
program content especially are often
afraid that a recreation program car-
ried through by the city administration
could be used easily for enforcing polit-
ical influence. These fears and, conse-
quently, the urge to stay away from ad-
ministrative influence can be overcome
by representation of these organiza-
tions in our committee. By trying to
get the population acquainted with
these partially new ideas, we found
that the press lacks positive coopera-
tion .. . especially the big newspapers,
which pretend not to have enough
space. Since this recreation program
should be a community matter, it seems
most important to win the local pa-
pers. They, in turn, are open-minded
towards our projects. . . . ”

The need for legal authorization for
financing recreation programs through
municipal funds is apparent. A report
on interpretation and financing stated:

“If, by interpretation to the public
and successful work with already-ex-
isting facilities, we reach the point
where the citizens and the city ad-
ministration basically accept the idea
of community recreation and designate
a definite place for it in the budget,
then we can speak of success. It will
be the best foundation for a healthy,
further development of the idea if
all citizens themselves, and all agen-
cies formed by them, support the work

well and noticeably.

“This is a necessary presupposition,
because we cannot base our work upon
collections and donations. The creat-
ing of community recreation means to
have courage for something new, es-
pecially in the present troubled time—
new not so much to the basic idea as
in form and content.”

A statement on the “Establishment
of Installations of Recreation and Lei-
sure Time” indicates that recreation is
recognized as an important phase of
city planning in Germany today. Con-
ditions in rural areas and small towns
also received consideration, and their
needs and resources were pointed out
as follows:

“In the most quiet valleys, on the
lonely heath and on the seashore, the
need is the same; refugees and ex-
pellees, widows and orphans and
bombed out people are living every-
where. Masses of homeless people are
wandering through these areas and
they also need help. But these land-
scapes offer natural sources in abun-
dance with their forests, which may
be used for recreation camps, the
meadows, streams, lakes and pools.
With the good will of the population,
they may be used for the recreation
program. Sometimes there also is a
barn, a community hall or similar
rooms, which may be changed into
community recreation centers. The
rural areas and smaller cities still have
the old tradition, a community feel—
ing of belonging together, which the

335

city population generally is lacking.
Certainly the rural connnunity needs
additional facililics for community ac-
tivities, but, above all. it nccds quali-
fied leaders, who— —as the conference
has shown—may realize things which
seem to be most impossible.”

The importance of introducing na-
ture into the city was stressed in this
way:

“Just as a plant or tree is growing,
with the fine ramifications, with leaves
and blossoms, the city should be grow-
ing. It should not spread like a jelly-
fish, but should be adapted to the
landscape in units which may easily
be surveyed. The terms of ‘city land-
scape’ and ‘neighborhood’ were cre-
ated. Everybody should again know
his neighbor and should live as a hu-
man being among human beings.

“Thus city planning seems to be an
essential point for the planning of
a recreation program. This program
finds its particular structural charac-
ter in the neighborhood center.”

Reference was made to the city plan
worked out in Bremen in 1947, under
which real estate for new school build-
ings, kindergartens and sport grounds
has been made available or is planned.
New schools are planned in such a way
that they serve as community centers,
and care is taken that sites are large
enough so that playgrounds, sports
grounds and school gardens are avail-
able. Kindergartens and youth homes
also are provided with necessary equip-
ment and outdoor facilities. The num-
ber of gymnasiums increased from
seven to fifty-one through reconstruc-
tion and new building. Playgrounds,
parks and swimming pools are being
restored.

Reference was made to the ruined
areas in Berlin, which have become
green parks and playgrounds, and to
youth centers which have been con-
structed in several cities. Emphasis was
laid upon the importance of com-
munity cooperation in planning.“These
homes and community centers should
not be built by administration authori-
ties or architects, but by those who use
them. The people who live there should
consider the facilities as their property
and should not feel like guests. The
right of possession of things is gained

336

only by one’s own work.”

Leadership and staff are indicat-
ed as vcry important factors in the suc-
cess or failurc of thc rccrcation pro-
gram, in another rcport. T hc problem
of providing competent lcadership is
faced as follows:

“ln thc beginning of the recreation
program, we will have to depend upon
personnel, already working in youth
work, who have gone through the exist-
ing leadership training schools or even
such persons who have successfully
worked in youth work previously. For
program planning, for conducting and
administration, as well as for the prac-
tical and technical leadership, a profes-
sional staff is indispensable. Because of
the importance of their work, this staff
should have a position which gives
them good financial security. . . . In
furthering and strengthening the pro-
gram, the introduction of adequate and
recognized training as a social leader
will be most necessary.”

In considering the factors which
must be used to influence public opin-
ion, suggestions were offered in the
field of interpretation and publica-
tions:

1. Only bring facts for which basic material
is available;

2. Publications should be written in such a

way that they can be understood by every-
body;

3. When requests or wishes are turned in,
they also should say what existing sources
already have been used;

4. Try not to blame other persons for any
existing discrepancies; always have courage
to see one’s own faults;

5. Any criticism should be accompanied by
suggestions as to how to do it better;

6. Try to win co-workers who can be taken
seriously;

7. Publications should show, in addition to
basic tcchnical information, that they are not

written for the sake of projects, but for the
sake of human beings.

A report on recreation projects in
rural areas pointed out that the rural
population works long hours, has little
opportunity for relaxation or enjoy-
ment of cultural events, often lives un-
der poor housing conditions and par-
ticularly faces special problems becausc
of the influx of expellees and refugees.
The following suggestions were offered:

“Experience shows that the already-
existing groups in rural areas (i.e.

home-country a s s o c i a t i o n s, sport
unions and so on) secludc themselvcs
from others and may bc won, only with
difliculty, for thc idca of a common
program of all forces in the communi-
ty. Thcrcforc, thc prcliminary plans
for a recreation program must first he
discusscd in a small group of qualified
pcoplc forming a kind of an initiative
working committee.

“The rural population, owing to its
former seclusion and outdated forms
of social life, is not easily accessiblc.
The hard fight for existence in the
rural areas confines the people and
makes them suspicious toward any
plans which need substantial support.
Therefore, any propaganda and intcr-
pretation must start from those persons
who have the most confidence and re-
spect in the community.”

The problem of raising funds for
rural recreation was considered at
length. It was argued that a project
must be demonstrated as being for the
benefit of the entire community and,
therefore, for the benefit of each indi-
vidual donor. Help from outside thc
community should be used only aftcr
all possibilities within it have been ex-
hausted. Likewise, foreign sources of
support should be sought only as a last
resort.

The report concluded with the fol-
lowing statement of aims of recreation
in rural areas:

1. To promote the physical, psychological

and spiritual forces of the rural population
and relaxation from daily work;

2. To arouse community feeling, particularly
between strangers and indigenous pe0ple;

3. To arouse a feeling of responsibility for
fellow-citizens and the neighborhood;

4. To vivify the traditional cultural life in
rural areas;

5. To ameliorate the social needs (expenses
for hospitals will be saved, also for prisons,
reduction of traffic accidents, and so on).

“All these things are contributing to
the aim of giving the people in rural
areas their self-confidence and of root-
ing them deeply in their soil (decreas-
ing the migration from the country) .”

Evidence of the interest of the Ccr-
man leadership group in continuing
their opportunities for further train-
ing was in action taken at the end of
the conference, whcn a committee was
formed to help plan future conferences.

RECREATION

Service Clubs in Recreation

Everett R. Seherieh

THE VALUE OF LOCAL service organizations to a
.community recreation program can be great, and
a recreation department should utilize them in
small things as well as in the promotion of large
bond issues. This is well illustrated by what has
been done in Jackson, Michigan. Owing to Jack-
son’s late start in the recreation movement, the
hard times of depression years and to a general
reluctance upon the part of the school system and
the city administration to assume recreation re-

sponsibility, Jackson had little of which
to boast in the way of facilities, except
those of the world’s largest prison.

ln the middle of the worst depres-
sion years, however, the local Kiwanis
Club took the initiative and purchased
some available ground in the north-
eastern section of the city; the Rotary
Club followed suit by excavating a
side hill, in a very thickly-pepulated
area, for recreational develOpment.

The idea then spread to the Ex-
change Club, which found some land
in the south section of the city. Mem-
bers purchased a few lots, upon the
consideration that the city buy more in
that area which were available on tax
sale. Not to be outdone, the Lions Club
asked permission to put a fence and
improvements on some vacant lots in
the north central section; and, more
recently, the Optimist Club deve10ped
playground plans. Therefore, when I
took over the duties of recreation su-
perintendent in Jackson, all service
clubs had at least one playground
named in their honor.

The condition of some of these play-
grounds, however, was such that it is
hard to understand how the clubs tol-
erated having their names attached to

 

Author EVERETT R. SCHERICH is super-
intendent of recreation, Jackson, M ich.

NOVEMBER 1951

the projects.
I was skeptical as to whether, under

this setup, the playgrounds ever would
be deve10ped properly, and I definitely
felt that playground developments
should be by bond issue and charged
to all the peOple. The first step would
be to bring them up to standard. The
clubs must be made to realize their
responsibility in making their own
playgrounds something of which to be
proud. This decision certainly has paid
off —although we were practically
forced into making it.

By the fall of 1948, the Kiwanis
Club had purchased a beautiful fence
for its property. An agreement was
reached with the recreation commission
whereby the commission would build a
model shelter house, its construction
to be supplemented by Kiwanis funds.
By the timc the shelter was completed,

the entire club had been activated by j

the playground movement.

When it was pointed out that the
way to treble attendance was to light
the playground and make it available
for night play, it became an easy mat-
ter to sell the Kiwanis board on this
idea. To bring lights to this project
in 1949, the recreation commission
had to advance five hundred dollars to
complete the deal. In January 1950,

 

The Lions Club brings “Happy Humphrey,” of comic strip fame, for a
visit in Jackson. He is being welcomed at the Kiwanis Playground.

the five hundred dollars were returned
to the commission. By this time, the
value of lights to the community recre-
ation program had been realized by
other clubs. The Exchange Club had
some funds available for lighting
equipment, but not enough; therefore,
the five hundred dollars which had
been repaid by the Kiwanis Club werc
turned over to it, to be repaid last
winter. Hence, lights were established
during that summer at Exchange Field.
The recreation commission then trans-
formed this miserable rockpile and
dump into one of the best playing
fields in the state. The plan was work-
ing in two ways: It had inspired the
club to make improvements and, at
the same time, had prodded our com-
mission into making further improve-
ments to bring the playground up to
standard.

The fence and shelter house were
completed at Kiwanis Field during
August 1948. These projects achieved
so much publicity and awakening of
civic consciousness that the recreation
commission was approached by the
Lions Club, whose playground was the
best equipped at that time, as to what
it could do to improve its field.

Little persuasion was needed to get
the club to illuminate part of its field

337

that fall. This system was completed
in the summer of 1919. Attendance
on this playground also trebled, as
had been the experience at Kiwanis
Playground. (This particular area was
in the heart of a colored section. De-
linquency in the area decreased im-
measurably when the field was lighted
for night activities.) Lions Club mem-
bers are very proud of their develop-
ment.

In the summer of 1949, the Rotary
Club was approached by the depart-
ment and persuaded to provide funds
to fence its playground. It also has
set up the machinery and funds for
continual development. The Exchange
Club, having lighted its field, now is
making plans for a model shelter.

By this time, members of the new-
est and smallest service club in the
city, the Optimist Club, were anxious
to do their part. Some available city
land, in the northwest area of the city,
had been designated as the Optimist
Playground. It was hard to keep this
enthusiastic group of young men in
check until certain school plans had
been developed, so that the playground
was sure to be permanent and would
not have to be abandoned.

In the spring of 1950, however, the
Optimists, given the “go ahead” sig-
nal, agreed to build a model shelter,
including a large storeroom, two toi-
lets and a large covered porch, eight-
een by twenty feet, if the recreation
commission carried its share of de-
velopment. Three thousand yards of
dirt were removed and the land lev-
eled. The Optimists built their shelter,
but ran five hundred dollars short. So
the recreation commission advanced

gang/Lew

the necessary money. The building now
is completed and the funds are again
available to another club for improve-
ments.

What better use could be made with
service club funds than this? What
greater opportunity to serve humanity?
You, in recreation, know the answer.
Public recreation reaches all people,
without regard for race, color or creed.
Instead of being committed to small,
isolated projects, all of the clubs are
striving to make Jackson known for
its fine playgrounds and recreation
facilities.

Will this situation hurt the bond is-
sue for a lighted enclosed ball park
and a beautiful swimming pool? We
will take our chances that these same
clubs will back, one hundred per cent,
the big project when the commission
is ready to put it on the ballots; and
it will pass by a large majority, be-
cause five hundred service club mem-
bers will see that it does so.

True, the spirit of rivalry among
the clubs has been awakened by these
playground projects; but does it do
any harm to have a Kiwanian jibe at
a Rotarian: “Your playground is a
disgrace; just take a look at ours!”?
The fact that the clubs are trying to
outdo each other for the youngsters
of the community is fast making Jack-
son a fine place in which to live. The
results speak for themselves.

The following are a few basic prin-
ciples which should help avoid pitfalls
in such an interclub project. Be sure:
1. That, regardless of the name of the
playground and the development, all
improvements and the land belong to
the recreation commission.

PM

The story of the 1951 National Recreation Congress meeting
in Boston, October 1 to 5, will appear in the December RECRE-
ATION. Owing to press deadlines, it was impossible to include

it in this issue of the magazine.

338

2. That the recreation commission su-
pervises the playgrounds.

3. That emphasis will be placed upon
cultivating the acquaintance of the
playground or boys’ club chairman
and the board of directors of each
club.

4. That each club receives its rightful
publicity for each project, regardless
of size.

5. That a spirit of personal pride in
the project is developed on the part
of each club member.

6. That a friendly rivalry is main-
tained, allowing the clubs to see which
will do the “most for the youngsters.”
7. That the board of directors of each
club is shown that community recrea-
tion provides as great, if not greater,
an opportunity for service as any
other project it may feature.

8. That “Thank you” is said not only
to the clubs collectively, but to every
individual club member whom you
chance to meet. Let every member
feel that he has been an important fac-
tor in the develOpnicnt.

O Gymnasium Equipment

0 Telescopic Gym Seats

0 Basketball Scoreboards

0 Basketball Backstops

0 Steel Lockers, Lockerobes
and Grade-Robes

70m ,4» My
FRED MEDART PRODUCTS,mc.

3566 DE KAlB ST. ST. lOUIS 18, M0.

. . For 78 Years
‘ The Standard Of Quality
w

RECREATION

 

 

THE DEVELOPMENT OF DRAMA IN CANADA has presented
certain problems and particular Opportunities. There is
the bilingual nature of the country, with its two great
cultural traditions stemming from its two languages, French
and English. We are influenced, on the one hand, by Great
Britain and the other members of the Commonwealth to-
wards the English tradition and, on the other hand, because
of our proximity to the U.S.A., towards the American tra-
dition of the theatre. Added tO these is the influence of
many peOple from European countries who have brought
with them the artistic traditions of their native lands.

One of the recognized forces for the blending together
Of all these influences, at least in the field of the theatre, is
the Dominion Drama Festival, which was inaugurated at
a meeting called by His Excellency, the Earl of Bessbor-
ough, then Governor General Of Canada, in Ottawa, Octo-
ber 1932. As a result of this meeting, the first festival was
held in Ottawa in 1933. The competitors were amateur
groups, chosen by regional competition, as representatives
of the best dramatic work being done in the various parts
of Canada. Originally confined to one-act plays, the festi-
val, which has Operated continually except for the war
years, now limits its final program to full length plays—_
although short plays may be presented at the regional
competition on a noncompetitive basis.

Canada now is divided into thirteen regions for festival
purposes. A chairman is appointcd for each region and
becomes a member of the executive committee. He is in
complete charge of the regional festival. An adjudicator,
engaged for a period of about two and one-half months,
travels from coast to coast to judge the plays and name
the best production in each region. In 1951, the adjudica-
tor saw fifty-two plays, mainly full length, from which eight
were invited to compete at the final festival, held in Lon-
don, Ontario, May fourteenth tO nineteenth. José Ruben,
of New York, was the adjudicator for the finals.

Final festivals have been held in Ottawa, London and
Toronto, in the Province of Ontario, and in Winnipeg,
Manitoba, Calgary, Alberta. Next year, 1952, Saint John,
New Brunswick, will be the host city, and an invitation to
go to Victoria, British Columbia, in 1953 has been ac-

 

AUTHOR is secretary~treasurer 0 f Dominion Drama Festival.

NOVEMBER 1951

Richard MacDonald

Canadian Drama Festival

cepted. The festival thus moves across Canada, giving the
general public an Opportunity to see live theatre which, in
many cases, they would not Otherwise have the chance to
do, and fulfilling its Object—which is defined as being to
encourage dramatic art in Canada.

In September 1950, a permanent Office was Opened in
Ottawa, staffed by a full-time secretary-treasurer and a
bilingual assistant secretary. It is expected that this will
result in a much closer relationship between all regional
committees and the central executive. A bimonthly news
letter is now published, giving Dominion Drama Festival
information and reporting on the activities of the various
associated groups and drama deveIOpments in general.

No distinction is made between the professional and
amateur groups. They are invited to the final festival on
the merit of performance across Canada, without regard to
regional divisions. French-speaking and English-speaking
Canadians compete on equal terms, both in the regional
and final competitions. PeOple from every part of Can-
ada, brought together each year, with common aims and
ideals, get to know and understand each other better. Op-
portunity has been given to Canadian actors to Obtain ex-
perience at home, and a large field Of talent has been de-
veloped which finds professional engagements in summer
stock and in the radio field.

Although the winning of trophies and other awards is
not the ultimate aim of the festival, it plays a vital part,
stimulating not only the interest of the actor and producer,
but of the general public. The trOphies take the form of
beautifully-executed plaques and cups. The following is a
list of the awards, showing the purpose for which they are
given:

The Bessborough TrOphy———the gift of His Excellency,
the Earl of Bessborough, which is awarded for the best
presentation in the festival. Thus it may be won by a
group playing in English or by a group playing in French.
The Festival Plaque—efor the best presentation in English,
excluding the winner of the Bessborough TrOphy; Plaque
du Festival—for the best presentation in French, excluding
the winner of the Bessborough Trophy; Sir Barry Jackson
Challenge Trophy—the gift of Sir Barry Jackson, for the
best presentation of a play, either full length or short,
written by a Canadian; Martha Allan Challenge Trophy—~—

339

for the best visual presentation (design, execution of scen-
ery, costumes and lighting) ; Le Trophee de Merites Louis
Jouvet—the trophy of Louis Jouvet of Paris, France, for
the best director; Henry Osborne Challenge Trophy—the
gift of the Right Honorable Vincent Massey, for the best
performance by a man; Nella Jefferis Challcnge Trophy——
the gift of the Heliconian Club of Toronto, for the best per-
formance by a woman.

All the above trophies only are held for one year, but
each winning group or player receives and keeps, as a
permanent possession, a parchment diploma as evidence of
success in the festival.

A Festival Committee Prize of one hundred dollars goes
to the author of the best play, either full length or short,
judged as a dramatic composition, written by a person
domiciled in Canada and presented in any regional festival;
and “Saturday Night” plaques are presented by Saturday
Night magazine for the best supporting male role and the
best supporting female role.

In most regions, the number of entries in the regional
festivals steadily have increased. In at least three cases,
subregional eliininations are held——-with as many as twenty-
five full-length plays competing for the honor of taking
part in the actual regional competition whcn, usually, not
more than eight plays are presented.

In the matter of finances, the festival depends upon three
sources of income: donations from individuals, businesses
and governments; entry fees of twenty-five dollars for one-

W-..

 

The Pilgrim Fathers
0 20 minutes, sound. Emphasizes conditions in old
world that drove Pilgrims to the new world and their
early struggles in New England. For rental from your
local film library. For rental or purchase from United

World Films, Incorporated, 1445 Park Avenue, New
York, New York.

Early Settlers of New England
0 10 minutes, sound. Re-enacts the life of pioneers in
New England about 1626; the backgrounds and be-
ginnings of American democracy. For rental from
your local film library. For rental or purchase from
Encyclopaedia Britannica Films Incorporated, 1150 Wil-
mette Avenue, Wilmette, Illinois.

One People
0 9 minutes, sound. Dramatizes the contribution of dif-
ferent nationalities to our American heritagc. For rental

from your local film library. For rental or purchase
from Anti-Defamation League of B’nai B’rith, 212 Fifth
Avenue, New York 10, New York.

 

From “Thanksgiving Program,” prepared by the Ameri-
can Heritage Foundation especially for the Girl Scouts
of America.

340

act plays and fifty dollars for full-length plays; and profits
from the final festival.

Groups are assisted with grants-in-aid for their travelling
expenses to the final festival and are provided with hotel
accommodations and a per diem allowancc while attending
it. All the expenses of both the regional and the final ad-
judicators also are paid by the central office.

During the final festival week, a theatre conference is
held. This in itself has been a great source of inspiration,
for here people from all parts of Canada discuss their
various problems and receive advice from specialists in the
various branches of dramatic activity. This year, for ex-
ample, one of the speakers was George Frcedley of ANTA.
Forums were held on the physical aspect of stage presenta-
tion and there were exhibitions of French, American and
Canadian stage design. The French exhibit consisted of a
large number of model sets, meticulously prepared by fa-
Inous French scenc designers, and especially provided
through the cooperation of the French Government which
collected, packed and shipped the exhibition directly to the
festival city. A complete afternoon was devoted to the
fascinating art of puppetry, with a trained group of Cana-
dian puppeteers demonstrating both marionettes and hand
puppets.

The Dominion Drama Festival looks forward to the fu-
lure of the theatre in Canada with pride and a definite
sense of achievement in the part that it has played and

will play in its development.

 

16mm. Films for Thanksgiving Programs

Colonial Children

0 10 minutes, sound. For rental from your local film
library. For rental or purchase from Encyclopaedia Bri-

tannica Films Incorporated.

Historic Plymouth

0 10 minutes, silent. For rental from your local film
library. For rental or purchase from Wholesome Film
Service, 20 Melrose Street, Boston, Massachusetts.

Americans All
0 16 minutes, sound. For rental from your local film

library. For rental or purchase from The March of
Time (Forum Edition). Produced and distributed by
The March of Time (Forum Edition), 369 Lexington
Avenue, New York 17, New York.

The House I Live In
0 10 minutes, sound. For rental from your local film
library. For rental or purchase from Young America
Films, Incorporated. Produced by RKO Radio Pictures.
Distributed by Young America Films, Incorporated, 18

East 4lst Street, New York '17, New York.
Land of Liberty 

0 80 minutes, sound. (Four 20-minute subjects.) The
story of men and women who struggled to develop and
defend America. For rental or purchase from Teaching
Film Custodians, Incorporated, 25 West 43rd Street,
New York 18, New York.

RECREATION

ERE IS THE ANSWER to the high
1 school director who must pro-
duce the annual school shows pr sev-
eral assembly programs during the
year. Here is the answer to the col-
lege director who must adhere to a
rigorous schedule of plays at the same
time that he trains his actors. Here
is the answer to the harried commu-
nity theatre director, besieged on all
sides with demands for entertainment
but crippled by lack of money and
trained talent.

Consider the tremendous possibility
of this technique. The community the-
atre director can rush a new one-act
play to the Rotary Club luncheon after
a few painless rehearsals. The high
school director can whip up his as-
sembly program without developing
another ulcer, while the college direc-
tor finds this method invaluable in
training his new actors.

It is in the realm of training that
the script-in-hand show finds its legiti-
mate place in the drama department,
for it provides a testing ground for
student playwrights . . . and a training
ground for fledgling actors who need
to gain confidence before an audience.

Not only can original plays be pre-
sented in script-in-hand style, but cut-
tings from the classics as well, giving
student actors a background in acting
techniques impossible within the con-
fines of the dramatics curriculum.

At Pennsylvania State College, the
dramatics department has given the
Five O’clock Theatre full recognition.

Reprinted by permission of Players Maga-
zme.

NOVEMBER 1951

Every Tuesday afternoon script-in-
hand shows are presented before an
audience of students and faculty. Un-
der the supervision of Kelly Yeaton,
professor of dramatics, it has become
a recognich campus activity for stu-
dents and an opportunity for directors
to appraise new talent for their next
show.

The most surprising thing is that
the audience doesn’t notice the script
aftcr the first few minutes of the
show! Mr. Yeaton sums it up by say-
ing: “One year after the script-in-
hand show, the audience won’t remem-
ber whether it was a standard produc-
tion or one in which the actors read
their lines.” The presence of the script
just doesn’t scem important to the au-
dience.

Think of the script-in-hand show as
the artist’s preliminary sketches in
charcoal before he finishes an oil paint-
ing. Without training in sketching, the
artist couldn’t master the more difficult
oil technique. Just like the painter,
thc student actor can deve10p into a
finer actor if he has a good back-
ground in “sketching.” N o more rapid
training method can be found than the
script-in-hand show—with its empha-
sis upon the meaning of lines and voice
projection.

The play or cutting to be used for
thc Five O’clock Theatre is typed on
onion skin paper and bound in a black
folder, like a book. The thin paper per-
mits the pages to be turned without
rattling, and the black folder merges
into the background until it is prac-
tically unnoticeable.

The scenery and costumes are kept

 

as simple as possible. Plain flats or
black curtains can serve for most any
setting desired. The imagination of
the Five O’clock Theatrc audience is
just about unlimited.

The first direction given to the ac-
tors of a script-in-hand show is: “Nev-
er look at your script while dclivering
the line.” This, of course, only applies
to short dialogue. ln longer speeches,
the actor should look up as much as
possible, using the script as a guide.
It’s as simple as that!

Usually, eight rehearsals are allowed
for a one-act play. If some of the
characters have long speeches, they
can work with the director at their
mutual convenience. In this way, the
play can quickly be put together with
a minimum of inconvenience to busy
students and directors. Rehearsals are
often held twice a day, and a play is
produced four days aftcr casting.

Although actors sometimes find it
difficult to handle the script for the first
few rehearsals, they soon forget about

. it as they concentrate Upon their lines.

The only departure from standard act-
ing techniques is that the script is
held in the upstage hand while gestures
are made downstage.

When not in use, the script is
dr0pped to the side. Eye contact is
maintained between the actor who is
silent and the one who is speaking.
Cues must be memorized, but this has
never been an obstacle to the rapid
production pace of the Five O’clock

341

Theatre. 111 fact, it is just this rapid
pace that gives a wide training to the
student actor. At Penn State, student
directors are given free rein in the
play library and, after one year, they,
as well as the actors, become acquaint-
ed with the works of many playwrights
whom they wouldn’t have met in the
classroom.

In the community theatre field, the
script-in-hand play also can keep alive
the interest of the members during a
lull in the season or between produc-

 

HILDREN AT PLAY inadvertently re-

flect current trends. During the
pioneer period, they played cowboys
and Indians. When Al Capone was ter-
rorizing Chicago, it was cops and rob-
bers, and the war brought games with
toy tanks and howitzers. Today a
group of children in North Texas have
fun with a play television station, re-
producing the programs they see on
the family sets.

It began this way. Young Val Smith
of Pilot Point, Texas, went on a tour
through a television station as a special
eighth birthday treat. Upon his return,
he assembled his playmates and ex-
plained the operations. Enthusiastic
comrades began immediate construc-
tion of a play station where they could

342

tions. At the same time it can help keep
thc group together, providing valuable
training for those who have never seen
the inside of an acting school.

Not the lcast of the advantages of
the script-in-hand show is the service
it can provide for those organizations
in the community which support a civic
theatre group. Many local clubs, fra-
ternities and service organizations pay
well for their weekly cntertainmcnt,
and a good one-act play will not only
bring additional funds into the treas-

ury of any theatre group, but also
will provide a welcome relicf from the
steady diet of jugglers and accordion
players!

By bringing the script-in-hand show
to the pcople of your community, it
is possible to stimulate interest in thc
legitimate theatre, both amateur and
professional. Whether it is college,
high school, or community thcatre, thc
script-in-hand play will do much to
increase the efliciency and esprit of
any theatrical group.

Television at Play

produce their own programs.

Shoe boxes were shaped into ca1n-
eras, painted black and made complete
with call letters, “long range” lens and
tripod. Two squares of cardboard be-
came a clock for announcing time and
a geometric pattern for testing the air
waves. A blackboard served as the
weather map and forecast.

For a “boom microphone,” the chil-
dren extended an old mop handle with
3 mike upon the end fashioned from
cardboard and gold-perforated florist’s
tape. The same materials created a
mike for desk use.

Girl playmates collected discarded
cooking utensils and mud ingredients
for a home economics program. Old

- milk bottles and empty tin cans lined

the apple box “kitchen cabinet.”

Dolls and toy animals supplied the
actors for the puppet show. This show,
by the way, uses the interior of a large
pasteboard box for its miniature stagc.
Val’s mother first cut out a side and
the bottom and then painted a black
tempera background on the inside. The
children work it like many simple pup-
pet shows, from underneath.

They impersonate a “mad man” disc

Henri Bob Russell

jockey, using play records spun on a
small phonograph. For their appear-
ances in this show, they gathered cos-
tumes received at Christmas and Hal-
loween and parents’ cast-off clothing.

For the latest news, a wooden crate
imitates a newscaster’s desk by sport-
ing a world globe, toy telephone and
the desk mike. The children send out
news thought up from their own im-
aginations and from a length of tele-
type material obtained 011 the visit to
the station.

Construction on the backyard sta-
tion busicd the children for more than
a week, but reproducing the programs
seen on the television sets still gathers
a crowd. Primarily, it stimulates young
imaginations and creativeness in or-
ganized group activity. A playground
director should have little trouble
adapting it and fitting it into the sum-
mer program.

As a result of this program, Val
Smith appeared upon a “live” tele-
vision show with his play station last
summer and enjoyed some extra fun.

Author HENRI BOB RUSSELL is journal-
ist and college student in Denton, Tex.

RECREATION

Sal Prezioso

NDUSTRIAL RECREATION and commu-
[nity recreation remind me of two
bashful teenagers in love. Both of
them have a high regard for each
other, yet they don’t dare say so; both
are attracted to one another because
of their physical‘ make-up, and yet
they dare not show it; both of them
would be so happy together, and yet
each waits for the other; both of them
could accomplish so much more to-
gether, and yet each of them still waits
for the. other. As a result, and in spite
of the fact that they attract each other,
respect each other and have so much
in common, they fail to get together
owing to their lack of intestinal forti-
tude—and so it is with industrial and
community recreation. With so much
to gain by being together and working
together, we still see each of these
fields very much separated. Why? Be-
cause each field still waits for the
other to make a move.

The question is: Are these fields
actually related or should they be
separated? You may split the atom,
but not the community; and since in-
dustry is every bit a part of the com-
munity, I maintain that industry and
community recreation have a very
definite relationship to each other and
that each of them has a responsibility
to the other.

If you’re in doubt that public recre-
ation has a responsibility to industry,
ask yourself these three questions:

1. Do people in industry (manage-
ment) pay local municipal taxes? If

Author SAL PREZIOSO is the recrea-
tion director of Scarsdale, New York.

NOVEMBER 1951

Cooperation of Industrial

and Community Roorootion

the answer is yes, then what is your
department doing for them in return?

2. Are people in industry (em-
ployees) local residents? If they are,
then what may they expect?

3. Are industrial people (manage-
ment and employees) entitled to par-
ticipate in community living? If they
are, then what is your department
doing to assist them?

The job of the community recrea-
tion director is to serve all the people
in his community in a most expeditious
and economical fashion. The most dif-
ficult task for a community recrea-
tion director is to group people and
organize them in activities. Industry
presents no such problem. People in
industry are already grouped and it
becomes a matter of the proper ap-
proach and the application of good
techniques to meet their needs. By
meeting the needs of both manage-
ment and employees in industry, the
community recreation director is doing
his job both expeditiously and eco-
nomically in that he is taking advan-
tage of a natural grouping of people.
Management and employees of indus-
try, both as members of the com-
munity and as local taxpayers, are en-
titled to service from a municipal de-
partment that owes its existence to
taxation which is borne by its local
citizenry.

The answer to the problem, as it is
solved at present, seems to lie in the
use of the old adage, “Let George do
it”; and that is exactly the attitude
that many public recreation people are
taking towards industry. Conversely,
the same may be said of industrial rec-

reation people. It might be well, how-
ever, to remember another old saying:
“If you will but lead, you will find
many followers.”

What is happening around the coun-
try with reference to industry and
public recreation? We find that in
Denver, Colorado, fifty-six firms—e111-
ploying well over thirty thousand em-
ployees—were brought together by the
municipal recreation department, form-
ing “The Denver Industrial Recreation
Federation.” The municipal recreation
department services this organization
by furnishing leadership and facilities
to the directors and for the activities.

We find in some small towns, where
only one company exists——employing
less than five hundred people—that the
company USUally builds a communi-
ty clubhouse to which employees and
their families may belong. Usually the
company contributes two dollars for
each one dollar income received.

We find community foundations or
funds, to which companies deed prop-
erties, and an incorporated nonprofit
organization established for welfare
purposes and set up as a separate en-
tity under the laws of the state. These
foundations are tax exempt, and com-
panies contributing obtain tax deduc-
tions.

We find, for instance, that in South
Greensboro (North Carolina Business
Men’s Association) and Castonia,
North Carolina, (Rex Mills, Incorpo-
rated) excellent results can be achieved
when business and industrial firms co-
operate to establish a community recre-
ation program.

We find the American Cyanamid

343

_._____ _ __A—-._

Company in Bridgcville, Pennsylvania,
leasing eight acres of park at one dollar
per year to the community. Groups
have been established, in some com-
munities, to bring together industries
and recreation departments for clear-
ance and discussion of information
and problems. Some of these are es-
tablished in New York City and on
Long Island.

There are others; but what about
New York State in general? We can
say that the picture here is pretty
dim. Not much has been done either
by industry or public recreation to
bring these two fields together, and
they are still reacting like the bashful
teen-agers mentioned previously.

What, then, can be done in New
York State—or in another like it—
by both industry and public recreation
to help build more and better recrea-
tion services? The answer should be
fairly obvious, in that it is underlined
by the spirit of cooperation. Each
should help promote and support the

At last . . .

)4  SW9» to 7am

other’s activities; they should coordi-
natc their activities; leadership and
facilities should be provided by one
orfand the othcr to whomsoever may
necd them; consultant service is essen-
tial for both, and each should give
freely of its time, effort and ability
whenever called upon; industry should
be givcn a seat cither upon the advi-
sory board or upon the community rec-
reation board; public recreation direc-
tors should make a sincere effort to
group industries which lie within their
geographical areas, as has bcen done
in Denver; and industry, in general,
should further recognize the values,
and further support the work, of com-
munity recreation.

The basic answer to the stated prob-
lcm also lies in the personalities and
physical facilities of those responsi-
ble for both the industrial and public
recreation programs. There must be a
complete understanding of the prob-
lem, together with its all-probable re-
sults; there must be a will to do—

Sgame 9W7

Square Dance Records with Progressive Orol
Instructions and Calls by ED DURLACHER

Here is the easy and economical way to meet the
ever-growing dcmand for square dancing in your
community . . . the HONOR YOUR PARTNER

series of square dance records.

it it it

Each record in albums 1 to 4 starts with sim li-
tied progressive oral instructions by Ed Durlac er
-——instructions easily understood by dancers of all

ages. F ollowin

a brief pause, giving the dancers time to square their sets, the

music, and ca 5 begin. The TOP HANDS, directed by FRANK NOVAK, offer

the best in scintillating and foot tapping square dance music. The calls are de‘.
livered by one of the nation’s most outstanding callers, ED DURLACHER.

it

it

it

The fifth album in the series contains music only, without calls or instructions—

“The Square Dance Caller’s Delight”.

PROVEN SUCCESS
HONOR YOUR PARTNER albums are being used with enthusiastic acclaim
by Recreation Supervisors in schools, colle es, camps, teen-age clubs, 4-H groups,

Grange Halls, Veterans Administration

across the nation.

ospitals, and recreation departments

All records are guaranteed against breakage, in normal use.
You’ll want to learn more about the HONOR YOUR PARTNER albums.

Write today for a descrlptlvo folder.

"03011 YOUR PARTNER

SQUARE DANCE ASSOCIATES

 R':

FREEPORT, NEW YORK

 

not just talk, but action, cven if it
be but experimentation; and, lastly,
there must be a kcen desire upon the
part of both parties to get the job
done for the good of the people, in
spite of personal sacrifices, because
public rccreation is for all the pe0plc.
Let us not be lookcd upon as isola-
tionists; let us not wait for Ceorgc
to do it. But, instead, let each of us
lead, and rccreation will be incrcas-
ineg supported by public funds which
will make available to the many what
private funds have givcn to the few.

New Professor of Recreation
The University of Illinois announces

the appointment of Charles Brightbill
as its first professor of physical edu-
cation in charge of rccreation in thc
School of Education, effective this past
September.

Formerly 0f the recreation stall of
Reading, Pennsylvania, and recreation
director in Decatur, Illinois, as well
as a former regional field representa-
tive of the National Recreation As-
sociation in New England, Mr. Bright-
bill has had extensive practical expcri-
cnce in various phases of public recrea-
tion throughout the country. For two
years, he served as the national dircc-
tor of Recreation Service, Veterans Ad-
ministration and since 1947, has been
executive secretary of the President’s
Committee on Religion and Welfare
in the Armed Services. Throughout
the years, he also has engaged in a
number of surveys and rcscarch proj-
ects, has coauthored several books.
contributed to many profcssional jour-
nals and has been lecturer and presi-
dent of the American Recreation So-
ciety.

Mr. Brightbill’s appointment is the
result of an annual meeting of the
Illinois Recrcation Association hcld in
November 1948 in Quincy. Here, a
rcsolution unanimously was passcd—
and later cndorsed by thc Exccutivc
Committee of the Illinois Association
of Park Districts——requesting the uni-
versity to establish a state recreation
consultant scrvice. A committee was
thcn appointed to present the request
to university authoritics and, in May
1949, Prcsident Stoddard authorizcd
the appointment of a professor of me-
reation.

RECREATION

 

 

HE CHICAGO PARK DISTRICT and
the Forest Preserve District of
Cook County last year experimented
in conducting a workshop in native
arts and crafts to give “sufficient dem-
onstration, instruction and actual prac-
tice in the use of native materials, com-
mon and obtainable in that region, for
arts and crafts which may be per-
formed by children in day camps and
rcsident camps, so that the participants
would be competent to teach children
to do these things.” Although intended
primarily for persons in Chicago and
suburban Cook County who, as direc-
tors or counselors, will be engaged in
the conduct of day camps in these dis-
tricts, key personnel in resident camps,
youth organizations, settlements and
other social agencies were also invited.
The response exceeded all expecta-
tions and is indicative of the vital need
for such training. When the advance
registration reached 379 persons, we
were obliged to refuse many applica-
tions from outside cities and had to
insist that executives of several youth
organizations weed out all non-essen-
tial registrants.

Even so, 265 enthusiastic delegates
attended. The whole job was dumped
into the laps of Miss Florence Kiefer,
Supervisor of Nature Recreation, Chi-
cago Park District, and Roland Eisen-
beis, senior naturalist of the Forest
Preserve District. They did it. Wc can
appreciate now some of the problems

 

Author ROBERTS MANN is the Super-
intendent of Conservation for Forest
Preserve District, Cook County, Ill.

NOVEMBER 1951

in

of old King Solomon. Only a care-
fully worked-out “battle” plan, the ef-
ficient functioning of a corps of re-
markable volunteer leaders and the sin-
cere purpose of each participant to
“learn by doing” kept the workshop
from collapsing under its own weight.
Here, in Chicago, we have felt that
in any day camp worthy of the name,
the central theme should be the teach-
ing of nature lore and nature appreci-
ation. If a day camp provides only
physical activities, it is merely an out-
ing. If it does no more than duplicate
in the out-of-doors what the child can
do indoors or on a city playground, it
has failed. All camp activities, includ-
ing games, should have nature aimin-
cance. Arts and crafts utilizing native
materials—designed to increase inter-
est-in, and appreciation of, nature——
should be taught. Children can learn
and have fun doing it. Urban children
need the opportunity of doing things
with their hands. The nub of the pur-
pose behind our workshop is expressed
in the conclusion to the mimeographed
outline issued to every “pupil” by the
four instructors in clay modeling:
“Pottery is an excellent camp craft,
satisfying to the child’s creative in-
stinct; one which needs little prepara-
tion and material; and one which
stimulates and applies nature study.

The beauty of primitive pottery lies,

not in highly glazed surfaces and per-
fection of skill, but in bringing to the
children the enriching experience of
the transformation of a lump of ‘mud,’
fashioned by their own hands and,
through the miracle of fire, becoming

Roberts Mann

Something’s Cooking

Cook County

a permanently solid object.”

This workshop was an eye-opener.
The skeptics still are stuttering. It
proved that there is a widespread
urgent demand for such training in at
least thirteen handcrafts, and that two
such workshops, of wider scope and
strategically located on the north and
south sides of Chicago, should be con,
ducted annually. It demonstrated that
there is a wealth of talent, active or
latent, among our own camping peo-
ple, available to serve as top-drawer
instructors in such workshops. Also,
that such people, who understand chil-
dren and camping, make the best in-
structors. It was unique in being a
community-wide affair attended by
leaders and workers in twelve classifi-
cations of agencies, not only from
Cook and neighboring counties in Illi-
nois, but also from Indiana, Missouri
and North Dakota; from the Chicago
Council of Girl Scouts, many suburban
councils of Girl Scouts, Camp Fire
Girls, Boy Scouts, YMCA branches,
settlement houses and social centers,
Salvation Army, Chicago Housing
A u t h o r i t y, privately-operated play
clubs, park departments (Chicago and
suburban), recreation and playground
departments and teachers’ colleges.
That’s one thing about Chicago—we
pull together! Under the able chair-
manship of Mrs. Esther Sullivan, our
Day Camp Committee of the Chicago
Camping Association—a potent factor
in the promotion of the right kind of
day camping and in the success of
this workshop—is a shining example.

Miss Kiefer and Mr. Eisenbeis cou-

345

tended that a minimum of two hours
was required to give adequate demon-
stration, instruction and practice in the
techniques of any crafts or other ac-
tivity. Therefore, they decided to con-
duct classes in just four crafts: clay
modeling, jewelry, leaf prints and plas-
ter casts. Those attending would be di-
vided, as they entered, into four equal
groups wearing appropriate insignia:
Maple Leaves, Ehn Leaves, Sycamore
Leaves and Oak Leaves. Each group
would rotate from one craft to an-
other during the two-day session, ac-
cording to a schedule from ten to
twelve o’clock and twelve forty-five to
two thirty. The instructors remained
after two thirty p.m. to assist anyone
who wished to stay and receive addi-
tional help or complete a project.

For atmosphere, it was decided to
hold the workshop in the warming
shelter for the winter sports area and
playfield of Dan Ryan Woods forest
preserve at Eighty-seventh Street and
Western Avenue. This building con-
sists of one huge central room, flanked
by an alcove at each end, and toilets.
As the registrations rolled in, it be-
came evident that the place was too
small, that there should have been sep-
arate rooms adequate for each group,
and that the location was too remote
for pe0ple from the far north side and
the northern suburbs; but it was too
late to change. Four U-shaped groups
of picnic table-and-bench combinations
were arranged on the west, north,
south and east sides of the big room.
Each group had eight tables—each six-
foot table seating six persons comfort-
ably or eight who were not too wide.
One alcove was used as a cloak room;
the other, for materials and for dis-
pensing coffee—which was furnished
free through the generosity of the con-
cessionaire at Dan Ryan Woods.

The Chicago Park District featured
an outstanding exhibit demonstrating
what can be done in native arts and
crafts in day camps and in other youth
groups. It also supplied sample copies
of all the best source and program puh-
lications in this field. Limitations of
space made it impossible to display
the exhibits to hest advantage, but the
workshop people needed no urging to
spend every available moment—before

346

and after sessions and during lunch
periods—studying them, asking ques-
tions and taking notes.

The Chicago Park District supplied
four of their best technicians who in-
structed in the use of plaster casts.
The other sixteen instructors, all of
them unpaid volunteers and all out-
standing, were recruited from the Chi-
cago Girl Scouts, suburban Girl Scouts
and Camp Fire Girls organizations.
They prepared and supplied sufficient
COpies of mimeographed illustrated
outlines of the basic principles and
techniques in each of the four crafts.
They supplied and organized the ma-
terials, tools and paraphernalia re-
quired for their respective crafts——
some collected, some loaned, some
purchased with funds made available
to them. The decision to hold this
workshop came too late for us to ob-
tain sufficient quantities of many de-
sirable native materials. The sponsors
supplied native clay, plaster of Paris,
pressed leaves, acorns, buckeyes, wal-
nut seeds and fungi; also the feet of
a red fox, a wink and a crow obtained
from a biologist-collector. Each par-
ticipant was instructed to bring such
items as notebook, toothbrush, knife,
scissors, stamp pad, ruler, needle,
water-color brush, cloths, Mason jar
lid and an oatmeal box top.

On Thursday, when the school bell

rang on the stroke of ten a.m., the fun
began. If you have ever watched bees
in a glass-sided hive, you know how
our workshop looked and sounded. The
instructors, five per craft, had a tough
job under such crowded conditions,
but they quickly got the groups organ-
ized into small units and everything
simmered down to a steady buzz of
activity. Presently, some tangible re-
sults began to appear. It was fascinat-
ing to watch. Many clever artists were
uncovered among that group of 250
people. A hook could be devoted to the
materials and methods used and to
the specimens fashioned—many of
them remarkable for their demonstra-
tion of skill and creative ability.

The clay modeling groups made pot-
tery by the “hand wheel” and “coil”
method. Many took their creations
home, fired them and brought them
back the next day. Some made ani-

 

mals; somc madc bowls; some made
ash trays. One man reproduced pre-
Indian pottery of Arizona. One woman
made a log cabin with the fireplace
for an ash tray. Much of the work
was professional in its perfection. The
jewelry groups made pins, necklaces,
boutonnieres and figurines. I
painted turtles made out of halves of
English wahiuts, butterflies of “turkey-
tail” fungus and a turkey gobbler fash-
ioned from half of a buckeye—with
some fungus for his tail and a pipe
cleaner for his neck and legs. The lcaf
print groups made smoke prints, ink
prints, crayon and spatter prints, and
then learned to weave corn husks into
dolls, baskets and so forth. The plaster
cast groups made casts of mammal
feet, birds’ feet, seeds and leaves and
then decorated them for use as plaques,
tiles, book ends and paper weights. By
Friday night, every speck of material
had been used up, including two tubs
of bank clay estimated to be suflicient
for five hundred peOple. Not a single
specimen was left for us to treasure.

Analysis of the 166 questionnaires,

53W

which were answered and dropped
into the box as the folks departed, or
mailed in later, resulted in our plans
for this year, repeating the same four
crafts, with three or four groups learn-
ing such additional crafts as weaving
with cattails, sedges, grasses and wil-
low withes; woodcraft, including carv-
ing and the making of whistlcs; camp-
craft, including the fashioning of tin
cans into utensils and nature games.

We learned by doing. It took a
whale of a lot of planning and work
by a lot of devoted, generous people,
but it was worth it. All those folk——-—in-
structors and “pupils”——were moti-
vated by the urge to make camping
experiences more educational and en-
joyable for children and to give them
take-home skills. We answered what
was proved to he a widespread basic
need. The impact of those two days
will be felt and enjoyed hy five hun-
dred thousand youngsters.

 

I'loygrouml
Summer Nolooook

Bound copies now available—$1.50

National lie-creation Association
315 Fourth Avenue New ank 10. N. Y.

RECREATION

RECREATION as a Career

The following three articles have been written by professional leaders, of varying de-
grees of experience, upon asking themselves the question, “Why am I a recreation leader?”

Leaders of national movements generally believe that the movement that does not recruit
its own membership is doomed to extinction. When was the last time you counselled and
encouraged a promising young person to consider recreation as a career? What would you
tell the young person who asked: What do I need to know; what do I need to be; what need
I do to enter the recreation profession?

 

1 Being a youngster, with but two
years of service in this wonderful pro-
fession, I often sit back and think of
how I accidentally stumbled into my
life’s work. This causes me to specu-
late on just how many of our young
people are graduating from high school
today without a definite thought for
the future. How many will wander
aimlessly through life? How many
will attend college just to get a degree?
How many of those fortunate enough
to get a higher education know about
a career in recreation? How many of
the professional workers now in the
field seek young aspirants and counsel
them towards a life as a professional
recreation worker?

If I were a young high school stu-
dent today, here is what I would like
to know about such a career.

The professional recreation worker
is a member of one of the fastest grow-
ing professions in America. He is re-
spected and looked up to in his com-
munity. He has a station in life to fill.
He has a contract with himself to
provide his fellow man with many

MR. HARTZELL is superintendent of
recreation in Chambersburg, Penn.

NOVEMBER 1951

 

At Peace With Yourself

Francis W. Hartzell

hours of enjoyment. He obligates him-
self to work while his neighbors play
but, in so doing, meets his citizens
at their happiest hours. This makes
for mentally healthy working condi-
tions. He promises to provide the chil-
dren of his community with rich,
healthful experiences which will foster
ideas for better living. In establishing
a contact with the perpetual How of
children, he drinks of the “fountain
of youth.”

In a sense he is a philanthropist,
always ready to provide releases from
mental fatigue and physical emotions.
He is happy with his work because he
sees walking about him examples of
his labors, and his name is upon a
thousand little lips throughout the day.
He is tireless, resourceful, original; he
can spot a need with the flash of an
eye. His time-clock has a face that
shows twenty-four hours. He is at
peace with himself.

His earnings are such that he can
live comfortahly. And his future, well,
he can just about name his own plans.
He is in a young field where a spirited
dynamic personality can put Horatio
Alger to shame. Security? They used
to say that the only way a man might

have it is to die. But, today, with short-
er working hours, man is going to llavc
more free time and, if you are right
there to give him leisure-time activi-
ties, he will play and relax.

In deciding a life’s work, we are too
often guided by an astronomical sal-
ary figure or by an evaluation of
what the profession has to offer us.
However, your approach to recreation
work is: What can I offer to the pro-
fession? Unless you contribute to your
profession, you will soon find that you
merely have a job—a daily routine.
But, by contributing to the profession,
you better yourself and receive the
acknowledgments of your colleagues.

So, to be successful, you must be at
peace with yourself in your work. To
understand such peace, or to get a
glimpse of the challenges to be faced in
a life devoted to serving the public, I
commend to you the lives of Miss Jo-
sephine Randall, retired superintend-
cnt of recreation of San Francisco and
Miss Dorothy Endcris, director emeri-
tus of Milwaukee. To attain such peace
is to he held in high esteem by 1nil~
lions of fellow citizens, as are these
two people. They have found peace in
public service.

347

 

 

Peter J. Mayers
2 High school studentsr-I address

myself to you for the purpose of em-
phasizing the importance of choosing
the right career. Maybe a few wise
words expressed here could be the
means of starting a young person on
a career of honor and beneficence. I
want to call your attention to a profes-
sion which is comparatively new, one
which is not overcrowded, has many
openings now and offers excellent long-
range possibilities. It is the field of
recreation. I steadfastly believe that it
merits your serious consideration when
vocations are mentioned.

The most fundamental question for
the high school student should be:
What do I want to do in life? A great
deal has been written about careers,
tending to confuse that which should
be plain. Before making a decision,
the most important one in your life,
investigate. Don’t go overboard on a
vocation just because a relative is do-
ing that particular work.

I thumbed through several books on
“careers,” and found that, although
there were hundreds of jobs and pro-
fessions listed, there was no classifica-
tion for recreation. As a result, this
very important profession may be
overlooked by high school students in

MR. MAYERS writes from many years
of experience as the superintendent of
recreation in New Rochelle, New York.

Josephine
D. Randall

 

3 No (meupation or field of service
offers greater interest or more (lay-by-
day thrilling experiences than does that
of recreation; for recreation is a wide

348

Why Not Consider Recreation

their quest of a career.

Let me tell you something about it.
The dignity and importance of the
recreation leader’s calling generally are
recognized. The recreation leader has
risen to the rank of the physician, the
lawyer or the minister of religion.
The social importance of his function
is widely acknowledged; and the pub-
lic, it would seem, looks theoretically,
at least, with as much favor upon him
as upon these other professional peo-
ple. He develops and shapes life and
destiny. This bears out Horace Mann’s
statement, “One rightformer is worth
a thousand reformers.” It is indeed
difficult to exaggerate the worth of a
true recreation leader.

What the soul is to the body, what
the mind is to the man, the recreation
leader is to society. His very presence
commands attention, solicits interest
and suggests thought. He is alive and
awakens life. People learn to feel that
it is good to be where he is—and thus
follow him gladly. What other profes-
sion offers such a place in the hearts
of men? What other profession is more
satisfying?

The question of recreation is a ques-
tion of leaders, and the problem to be
solved is how to induce the best men
and women to become recreation peo-
ple. In every stage of recreational
process, the deveIOpment of faculty,
strength and skill is the objective.
The recreation leader must know how

After Thirty-eight Years

open field for exploration for the pio-
neer, the trail blazer, the experimenter.
There is no set pattern to be followed
and the unexpected is ever happening.

Any and all educational background,
both theoretical and practical, will be

 

as a Profession?

to deal with human minds, and his
chief concern must be how to give
them flexibility, how to make them self-
active. His work is a wrestling of mind
with mind, heart with heart. His per-
sonality, far more than his learning,
determines his value as a recreation
leader. The very presence of a gener-
ous and cheerful person illuminates
and strengthens. Recreation, however
perfect the system, however admirable
the devices, can do its best work only
when it is in the hands of the best men
and women.

The recreation calling today should
be attractive to boys and girls in high
school who possess the power and
quality of life in a high degree. No
longer does one have to take it up as
an expedient until something more se-
cure or more lucrative is offered. The
standard of the recreation profession
has risen by leaps and bounds in the
last twenty years. The pioneering has
been done. Recreation positions today
are secure, the work is pleasant and
the pay is greater and more certain.
All of these attributes should make
future careerists realize that the recre-
ation profession holds great promise
for them—and how I wish more young
folks would realize this! Those of us
who care about youth are anxious to
see the profession attract desirable
recreation leaders. Therefore, I urge all
those seeking a worthwhile vocation
to look toward recreation.

of Service

of value to a recreation administrator.
While it is important to have a gen-
eral education covering a wide field
of information, it also is important
to have specialized recreation training
which provides the tools needed in the

RECREATION

development of recreation programs
and facilities, thereby saving many
hours of wasted effort through the
trial and error method.

Anyone with the will to serve, with
imagination, vision. courage, common
sense, enthusiasm, good health and
energy will enjoy his work in recrea-
tion every day and every year with
increasing inspiration and interest.

A recreation worker is a missionary
in a new field of service. The recrea-
tion field is so great, and the oppor-
tunities so diversified, that unless the
spirit to serve is strong, the worker
had best seek another occupation.

The success of a recreation worker
cannot be measured by facts and fig-
ures. His greatest success may be an

MISS RANDALL retired this summer
from her position as superintendent of
recreation, San Francisco, California.

intangible influence which, though it
cannot be bridled, spreads out through
many channels over a large area.

During the past thirty-eight years,
the development in public recreation
has been tremendous. No longer is it
considered a luxury nor a necessity
only for city children. Towns, villages
and rural communities are asking for
recreation leaders and for assistance in
the organization of their recreation
activities.

As the field expands, there is an in-
creasing demand for trained recrea-
tion leaders, paralleled by the demand
for increased compensation. Thus sup-
ply follows demand——and compensa-
tion, to be adequate, must compare
favorably with other public services in
the area served.

The recreation leader who thinks of
his work only in terms of “amuse-
inent,” or of “keeping children off of
the street,” has lost sight of the real

meaning of a re-creation program and
the enormous opportunity it offers in
the balance and stabilization of our
present civilization.

ln whatever branch of recreation a
leader may elect to specialize, his in-
fluence will be felt in proportion to
the service he renders. If he accepts
his opportunities as they arise, he will
find his influence spreading out into

'many different channels and his co-

operation extending into various (le-
partinents of civic life. Outstanding
will be his influence with individual
children and adults; with civic and
social groups; with departments of
education and health; with industry,
labor, commerce; with political, social
and welfare groups. He must realize
that each step is an important one and
must be placed on firm ground.

In whatever capacity a recreation
leader is serving, he must feel that it
is worth the very best that he can give.

 

Mark of a Profession

The status of our profession may be found, in part, in the extent to which
the community and the public accept their recreation leaders. The following
newspaper article is an example of how completely one superintendent of recre-
ation has been accepted. This tribute was unsolicited and is a natural and spon-
taneous expression pf the appreciation and affection which the people of Salina,
Kansas, hold for a conscientious public servant.

What Kind of a Man Did
They Get?

Dave Zook, Salina’s recreation di-
rector, almost always can find some-
thing nice to say to somebody. Maybe
it’s only that you’re wearing a good-
looking tie, or isn’t that a new dress
or on you that suntan looks good. But
it’s always an honest compliment.

Dave does this because he likes peo-
ple. And, liking people, he likes work-
ing with, and for, them. Probably that’s
why he’s been a school teacher, an ath-
letic coach and now a recreation di-
rector.

But he might not be Salina’s super-
intendent of recreation today if it
weren’t for his son, David Harry, one
of six children.

Winters, Dave had been teaching
school and summers, heading west and

NOVEMBER 1951

working in the mountains. He was liv-
ing in a suburb of Decatur, lllinois, at
the time. But the summer of 1941 he
didn’t make it. On July 3, David Harry
was born. Dave couldn’t leave his fam-
ily right then. So he stayed in Decatur
and painted a schoolhouse. Next winter
he was principal of a school again. But
the chain of summer migrations had
been broken. The following summer a
school teacher friend talked him into
working for the Decatur Recreation
Department. He did, and liked it, and
Decatur’s recreation boss liked him.
The winter of 1942-43 found him back
on a school faculty—but, this time, as
an athletic coach. At the end of the
year, he signed a contract as full-time
assistant director of community recrea-
tion. Decatur, to which pe0ple point as
a fine example when they discuss rec-
reation, was a good training ground.

In 1948, Salina, which had just vot-

ed to establish a municipal recreation
program, hired Dave away from De-
catur.

What kind of a man did they get?
They got an idealist. Dave looks and
hopes for the best in both people and
institutions. But they also got a man
with enough practical ability to guide
Salina’s young recreation program
through its formative years in a man-
ner which has won praise from both
the profession and laymen.

I’ll remember Dave best for the
qualities which make him a likable hu-
man being—his Irish humor, his curi-
osity, his love of fellow men. Like his
ice-shattering manner of introducing
folks: “Mr. Guggenheim, meet Mr.
F itzwater,” he says to a pair of stran-
gers—names Smith and Jones. Or the
times he cuts through the kitchen of a
cafe on his way to snatch a morning
cup of coffee and wonders: “Well, what
are we having today?” as he lifts lids
and peeks into steaming pots and pans.
—-—BOB NELSON, in the Salina Evening
Journal.

349

 

“C  .
OMMUAITH RECREATIom is the
title of the new film the United States
Department of State has just finished.
The picture, forty-five minutes in
length, primarily was made for show-
ing in Western Germany, as part of
the department’s program of education
for democracy.

The State Department had the idea;
the Robert Carlisle Film Productions
of New York and Hollywood had the
task; and the community of Manhat-
tan, Kansas, furnished the material.

Originally, twenty-five towns were
nominated as possible shooting sites.
After a year of elimination, Manhattan
was chosen because the State Depart-
ment felt that the program here actu-
ally began in much the same way as it
could in many West German com-
munities.

The film points up the fact that a
good community recreation program
can be started without a lot of funds
through the sincere cooperation and
work of many people. Our program
here did get its start in this way. lts
history goes way back to thc days of
the Kansas pioneers who, when their
work was done, held husking bces,
spell downs, quilting parties and square
dances in the barns.

In 1917, local citizens tcamed up
and dug a large hole for the first mod-
ern community swimming pool. The
Lions Club years ago began sponsoring
a tcen-town. Boys’ baseball had its be-

350

ginning in 1925, with the Rotary Club
doing the work. The Sertoma annually
gives a community minstrel show to
raise money for Sunset Park. The Ki-
wanis Club each year stages a huge
pancake feed to raise money for a
robed teen-age choir. Pet and hobby
shows have about thirty years of his-
tory. The community is famous for its
4-H Club, PTA’s, Boy Scout and Girl
Scout troops.

The first of June this year, a team
from the Carlisle Film Productions
arrived to start the picture. They had
a well-written script by Lee Baxter,
good cameramen, Barney Haugh and
Frank Winner, and a well-known direc-
tor, Grant Whytock. The only things
which they needed were locations and
actors, and that is where Manhattan
and its people fitted in. All of the scenes
in the film are authentic and all of
the actors are local people. “We have
had no trouble with any of the actors,”
said Mr. Whytock, the director. “In
fact, there are a few people here who
should be in Hollywood because they
are naturals.”

The film started out as a two-reeler,
but grew as it went along.

When asked by the director how
a community goes about establishing
a well-balanced and full program, we
gave him one word, “cooperation.”

If one group in our town gets an
idea to sponsor some phase of recrea-
tional activity, the other groups ask

Frank J. Anneberg

; :.  RECR EA TION
Put Us on the Map!

what they can do to help. All of them
are this way, bccause they have learned
that it takes comtnunity cooperation
to do a community job.

That the people of Manhattan are
cooperating can be seen by the small
budget of the community recreation
program. We have $19,000 for this
year, which is about one dollar per
person per year. However, with this
amount, we can carry on because the
city commission, the school board,
merchants, civic clubs, churches and
PTA’s always pitch in to make every
recreation task a success. The spirit
in which they went about producing
this film was a splendid example of
cooperation. More than two thousand
people will appear in the movie.

When the film is shown to the peo-
ple overseas, the people of Manhattan
can be proud of a job well done. It will
not be just another propaganda piece
which has been turned out to sell de-
mocracy. It will show the pcople of
Manhattan, rich and poor, black and
white, professional and laboring
classes, all working together to im-
prove their town and make it a better
place in which to live and raisc thcir
families.

We have been put on the map by

virtue of our recreation program.

(See Mr. Anneberg’s letter in “Rec-
rcation Comments,” page 312.—Ed.)

RECREATION

IIA NBC“ AFT

(‘II II ISTDIAS

:8; NE: 8 :8 :8 :38 :8388: :20 m8=:8 :88: 8888 80: :88: :8
80:m 0: :8 2:8 8380: 38mm :88888“ 8:88. 882:8 m8=:8 8:
:8 808:. 0: :8 38:. :8 8:: 0: :8 :08 2:8 880 :8 :8: 8m 8

80%?

30:8: 0588

®

f 0:: 8 :0:~.80:-08.r8_:.:0or ::8_88~ 8:88 0:

:81? :0: 88:83 :8? $838.: :38 :8 088::

\ 8.:m8u 0:: H.082: 80: 80:0:“ :0 8 88:8— 98:8:

:8: 5:8“ :0:— :8 808:. :m 8888:. 08:88:

, :lllll 8 802:8: 0:. 0:88: 0:88:58 88— :0 :8 :0-

. 8::8 80:. H.008 :8 038:8 80: 08a :8 :88

A ~\. 788:. 383: 0: :88 :0 8:05 00:08 8::
01m. 5:8: :0 888:? :8 :88.

4

M

 

   
   

0—: x30... 02: :83
U898 can «on: 2.8
0... he: :62: 0:2.

   
 

0:: 0:88:83 03%

0:: 8 08~:r08~: m8: :30:
:8 8:82: 8:008: ms: 80: 08-
:8: :888 3: my: 8:: 08:8:
80:88. @888 80 0:: 0:18:58 08H: :80: 880:: m::8 0: :8 08H::008:.:
8: :8 8:8? 0:: :20 Emomm 0: :88— :0: 88:08:. :0 m: :8 87...:o 2::
8 8.080: :08 8:: 0:: :30: :8 .808? :88 :0 m: 0:8: 83:88::
88: 8:: 88:8. H.058: 8 :88 8: :8 :08 0: :8 8:8: :0H 8 8:13.: 85:23

O

 

583—080 :0-. Ha:-

7-9-m-2Am OH-uu-mHi-Fm
Hun-w!“ Av-HZFZHZH‘W

‘28 885:8 0: 0:88:88 :88 0388808 :8 8: 83.0838

80: 88:8 88:00:58: 88:33:“ 80: @788 8828:8808 8:
8::8: 8888: 8:: 88:88:00 :0 :8 :88 :88: :: :8< :88 :8: 8
:8: :0 :8 30:88:00.

‘28 :0=0E:0m 88mm8m8: 88:888 88 :0:. :88 0283808 88:8
3‘ :8 :8: 5890:. $888 88 38:8» 88$: :0 :0“ 8:88:78 80: mcm.
@8898 0: 0:8u ::88m :0u 278:: 01%:8— 88:888. 08:: :8 88:8. >—-
808: 83‘ macs? :38 :08 :0 :8 858::“ 880 :88 :80 5:: :88
88:.8:: :88 0:5 88mmmmzozm 80: :mm:m=mw 0:: 808808 :0 :8
mac—L6 SE: #888: m5: 880 :8 8:8: 8:00: :0 88:8 8:828 :0 :8
:88: 3: 883008.

 

Woorgm $088

0:: :20 88.88 0: m2: :0: o8~::008:.: :38 8 88:83 28:: 8m
E5888: :88|m:8 8:638:88? :05 80: 989::8822 8:88
3‘ :05 80: 08.78:: 1888. :48 :0:8: :08 8: :8 :00? :82
:8 3:88:08 278:: 88 :8m8:8: r8388: :8 :20 30—88. $888
88 08:8 3‘ 888:: :20 Emomm 0: M88: 80: £784 £18: :0: 88:85
5:: 8 88.8 0: 38:0: :83: 8:588: :88. £8 7088",: 700:8“ :8:
80: :88 88 88:8 0: 58:80:: :0: 88:85 :88: 8:: :0 :88?
80: 88:8: 8:88: :8 :20 mi: :88? 4:8 :0:8: :88 Emma:
:8 8:88 0: :88 8888. i8 2:8: :0: :m :0: :8 888:: 0: 2:8

28388: :33 8 tamwai 98:82.8» :0382888 £88 0888888.:
:8: 08: 3: :8 :08 83888.: 68032888: 0: M88838: 8:: ~03»?

“AFT

“‘1
J

"A NIH

C" II [STRIAS

:0050 0 m5:558 £05200: 50505 50::050
:::3 .05:: 0 :0 050 6:050 :000 :0 0:50
0:: 50:00.”: .8550 ::m:0 0:05: 0: :5050
.:::05:00 550:: @0050 :50 5050:08 :05
-05 0005: 0 :::3 00500 0:: :0 00::0w0:
05:50 .58 0:: 50:00.”: 05:5:0 58 0::
:0 :000 :0 :50 :000 :0 :50 00:58 0::
:0 0:0: 05:: 0 :55: .m50: 00:05: 05:5
:50 0:0:3 :05: 50 :0 0:::w:0.00.::: :000
.8505 ::8 50:5:0 :0 05:0:0 .58 :50

:0»: :05.::m

 

.0:0 :::3 050:0:0
00:0 :8: 503m: :53: 50505 0
:::3 0:005 0:80 ::8 0:50w05
58 :50500 005 50 .:5: 0:5:
:00:: :::3 0:80 :50 00.5:
.08 5:00: .:0500::0500 ::8
:0:0m 050 5050550 530:
0 :0 550::05 0:: 0005:.

550...:

 

.50m50: 0:: :8
5:0: 0:: :0 m5:5:0 :0 05:3 05: 50:00.”: 0:000 00:50:80 w5:05 .0000:
0:50m 20:50 03: 583:0: 0w0: :50 0550 0:: :0 0:50 0:: 50500 .0550
0:: 58 05:50 820:0 0:: w5:05 60:03 0500 0:: 0550 :50 w0: 8:5
0:: 00:03: 50::0w0: 0:50 0000: 0:: 50500 00:05:00 :0 0::: 0 0:05
0: .::.:8 :50 :00: 50:5 :000 5030
03:0 0:: Son: .0001: 5: :0:0: 0: :505
-00 :50 .00:0 0500 0:: 85050 :0 :50
0:: 000500 850: 00:05: 508:0 0: :0::3
05:50 050 :0 :50 0:: 000:5 .w0: 0.0:50m
0:05 0 .:. .0500 0:: 58 $50: 8:05:
::0:.050 :50 05:5 :50 0:83 :05: 50 :0
0:::m:0-005:: :000 .0530 58 :50 .0w0:
0:: :8 .m50: 00:05: 50>0:0 :50 05:3
00:05: ::0::.050 :000 .5050: ::8 50:5
5:0 503:0 :50 :00: :0 0000:: .58 :50

 

0:50m

(Fold Along This Line)

5
l
I

.000: 0:: 5055
:5050550 0:: “:50: 0: :0005 0: 500 0:0: 0: H. .8005 :000: 0:: 583:0:
85:3 0:: :0 0:50 0:: :5005: .m50: 8:05: 05:5 50:0 00.50005 :0::3
. 80:0 :58: 0505 :005:: 503::0 :0 80:5 0 :55050 00:3 05: :0 80:5 0
m5::0:3: :: 0:0: 0 0:02 0:50 :8 :000: 0:: :0 50: 0:: 0: 000:: :505
-00 0:000:00 :0 0m:00 0:: :::3 :50 :50 .00:3::w50: 80% 0:: :::3
.8505 05050 30:00: :0 030:0 300505 :50 .8005 :000: 03: 0:: 5003:
.0: 08:: :5005: 0:00: 0: :00: 50:: m5::00m :0 m5::50500 .050=00
03: :50 0m5:3 58 :50 05805050 0:: 30:0 005:: 8:0: 0:9
5050:: ::8 0:50w05 :0 50:00 :50 0w5:3 0:: 0:05: 000:5 :000 50 :5:
0:5: :00:: :::3 85:08 0:: 5:00: .03: :50 :50 .:0.:00::0.:00 ::8
:0:0w :0 000:5 0 50 .:0:0:0 0::: 0: 50::E:0 55050:: 0:: 508 0005:.

:58: 89:4

 

.0500 0:: :0 0:00.:0 0:: 0: :0w50:
m5:.::0 50 05:3 50:00 0: .:00.:0 0:: 30:0: :05: 30: 50:50:00 :0 :005::
:00: 0 0:.:. .5003:0: :0000::0.:00 :::3 50::0m0: 800:5 03: 0:005 50
:50500 000:0 :50:0::::0 5: 00:05 0: :000 0: :::3 :5050550 0::.:. .505
-0550 0500 3500 0 :8 50505 ::8 85:80 503::0 :50 500% 003

0500 3:500

.:05 :::3 0:005 00050::3 .:0500::0.:00 :0 50505 0:: :0 080 ::8
0:: 0: :0::0 :::3 00:0 5058 50::55 0: H 80055203 0: 200:: ::8
0:: 00 .0005: 50:80.50 50 5:05 0:: :50:0:::3 :::3 .:0:: .0505
.0550 005: 50 0:005 500:: :0 000:5 5: :0005 0: :50500 8:85 2

50:00.: :50 0050:
0:: :0 0:0:0 050 0:05 0: 55020:: 0:: :0 0:0:0 0000305 0:: 003 5:555
50505 0 :::3 0:55 .5505: ::8 0:50w05 05 05:0 090: 0::. .50.:50:

Recreation News

Japan Has Its Congress

A city of Buddhist temples—Koya-
San—located on t0p of a mountain
some three thousand fect above sea
level (the final distance is covered by
cable car), was the scene of this year’s
Japanese National Recreation Con-
gress.

The four-day conference, August 3-
6, was attended by more than 1,800
participants, indicating a tremendous
increase of interest in the recreation
movement on the part of the Japanese
pe0ple. The first congress in 1947 only
attracted one hundred delegates; while
the one held in 1950 had five hundred.

The congress program was well-
arranged, with many pertinent fea-
tures. There were discussions of recre-
ation problems and an exchange of re-
ports by representatives of local recre-
ation associations. An exhibit of arts
and crafts objects made in community
recreation centers throughout America
(see RECREATION, September 1951)
was a very p0pular attraction. A pro-
posal to send five or six delegates to
the National Recreation Congress in
Boston, October 1-6, was approved.

Delegates also attended the Inter-
national Recreation Conference at Wa-
kayama City, August 6-9, where the
important subject was how to promote
international understanding through
the medium of recreation.

A First for Delaware

Delaware still is celebrating the ac-
quisition of its first state park—at
Brandywine Springs. A new law appro-
priates $45,000 to the State Park Com-
mission and authorizes it to purchase
the tract of land near Marshallton, up-
on which Brandywine Springs Park
formally was located.

The park pr0posal had the enthusi-
astic support of Governor Elbert W.
Carvel; and
Service, Incorporated, under the su-
pervision of George T. Sargisson; M.

Recreation Promotion

NOVEMBER 1951

duPont Lee, president of the Wilming-
ton Board of Park Commissioners;
John C. Hazzard and Max Terry,
chairman and secretary, reSpectively,
of the State Park Commission; Fred
Price, secretary of the New Castle
County Regional Planning Commis-
sion: and of Mr. and Mrs. Carl Deni-
son, of the Brandywine Springs Park
Association, organized in 1950 to have
the old park made into a public recre-
ation area. The association hopes to
have it equipped with picnic areas, ten-
nis courts, baseball diamonds and as a
wildlife refuge.

The Governor also signed legislation
to have transferred to the state a one-
thousand-acre tract of land in the
southern part of Delaware, known as
Trapp Pond, and apprOpriated $10,000
per year for its maintenance and Oper-
ation.

Child ren’s Museum

Charlotte, North Carolina,
boasts a $68,000 nature museum for
children. Formally dedicated during
the spring, the new building is situ-

DO\V

ated on a twenty-seven-acre plot of
land on a wooded hill overlooking a
park lake. The area was donated by the
Charlotte Park Association, sponsored

by the Lions Club.

Until the first of July, the Children’s
Nature Museum had been financed by
the Charlotte Junior League and man-
aged by a board of directors; but,
since then, financial operations have
been assumed by the Park and Recre-
ation Commission and the board has
become a policy-making group.

The prime feature of the new proj-
ect will be its formal programs for
children’s nature plans. For the Open-
ing ceremony, exhibits throughout the
building demonstrated the theme, “Life
Begins Again in the Spring,” pre-
pared by elementary school children
of the city for the display cases which
line a corridor extending through the

building. Additional exhibits were
made by science pupils in the high
school and by members of the mu-
seum exhibit committee.

New Jersey State Park Dedicated

Fort Mott State Park, New Jersey’s
newest addition to the statewide forest-
park recreation system, was dedicated
with apprOpriate ceremonics last June.

Commissioner Charles R. Erdman,
Jr., of the New Jersey Department of
Conservation and Economic Devel0p-
ment, made the formal presentation of
the park to the state. Senator John M.
Summerill, Jr., of Salem County, ac-
cepted it on behalf of the New Jersey
State Legislature.

Formerly one of three fortifications
guarding the lower Delaware, Fort
Mott, embracing 104 acres of land, was
purchased by the state from the Fed-
eral Government in 1947. Park devel-
opment has been under way since Aug-
ust 1949, and much already has been
done to improve its appearance and to
provide essential facilities for public
use.

John Syme to Retire

John J. Syme, reported to be the
longest serving playground director in
Canada, is retiring after more than
thirty-three years of service. '

First appointed director of play-
grounds by the old Hamilton Play-
grounds Association, he continued un-
der the Hamilton Playgrounds Com-
mission, which was merged with the
recreation council in 1948.

Actually, it was the annual play-
ground track meet which he helped to
make an institution in the Canadian
city that first attracted J. J. Syme to
recreation. A teacher at the Collegiate
Normal College, he helped conduct a
meet in 1917. After assuming director-
ship the next year, he and his staff
built the event into an annual pageant.
This past August, Mr. Syme directed
his thirty-fifth annual meet.

His leadership also led to an im-
provement in many other phases of
the recreation program for Hamilton-
ians. In fact, during the early thirties,
Hamilton playgrounds were cited by
the National Recreation Association
for the excellence of their programs.

353

   

m.-.

Local Interpretation
In the realm of publicity, promotion

and local interpretation of recreation
department program activities and ob-
jectives, many departments put out at-
tractive and lively news sheets, bro-
chures and quarterly reports. Also,
specific groups among their patrons
have a great deal of fun turning out
their own clever news sheets as one
of their program activities. Mimeo-
graphing in these is good; illustrative
sketches clever. Those listed below are
only a few among many worthy of men-
tion. Why not write for samples and
use them as a source of new ideas?

Play Times, Huntsville, Alahaina—u
News of activities on various play-
grounds and of special citywide evcnts.
Prepared by “The Playgrounders” and
published twice a month hy the recre-
ation department.

Nature News, Essex County Park
Commission, 115 Clifton Avenue, New-
ark, New Jersey—A playground sheet
carrying news reported and signed hy
the children, turned in by the ranger,
set up by office stafi, placed on play-
ground bulletin boards. No sketches.

The Score, Sylacauga, Alabama,
Recreation Department—A quarterly
report, in small hooklet form, carrying
a photograph of a recreation activity
pasted upon the cover. News of activi-
ties is presented in informal, chatty
style and illustrated with amusing
sketches.

354

ma.

=‘suceesnon

  

  

The Arm Chair Sentinel, Bureau of
Recreation, Evanston, lllinois——-A ten-
page hooklet, with sketches and col-
ored cover, published especially for the
Evanston Sunshine Club of Physically
Handicapped Persons. It contains in-
formal news, humorous stories, brain
teasers.

What’s Cookin’, Recreation and
Park Commission, East Baton Rouge
Parish, Louisiana—A newsletter to
keep staff and commission members
better informed as to the scope of the
program.

Recreation Round Up, Parks and
Recreation Department, Rock Hill,
South Carolina——Five pages and col-
ored cover, printed semi-monthly, to
let the general public become better ac-
quainted with records, activities and
services. The style is formal and there
are no sketches.

Recreational Activities, Recreation
Department, St. Louis Park, Minneso-
ta—A good looking community hro-
chure, printed photo-offset on one
sheet, hoth sides, carrying a photo on
the front. Especially interesting in that
the department gets together with the
churches and the Boy and Girl Scouts
and jointly announces the whole pro-
gram for the summer.

Uses for Broken Bats

0 Saw them up to make floats for
swim lanes.

0 Use them for fishing rod handles.

0 Make them into potato mashcrs.

oMake them into gavel heads.—
West Palm Beach.

oMake them into croquet Inallet
heads.—Salina, Kansas.

Hints for Square Dance Programs

0 Paint small, white squares of three
or four inches upon the floor. The sets
can arrange themselves around these
inconspicuous markings and be prop-
erly spaced.

0 When using several callers, find
out ahead of time what numbers they
plan to call and forhid unexpected en-
cores, so as to avoid the same dance
being repeated during the program.

0 Entrances and formations of
squares are as much a part of an ex-
hibition as the dance itsclf. Instead of
moving onto the floor in a haphazard
fashion, plan the entrance. Why not
come in as a grand march or use vari-
ous other entrances—-—a star formation,
for instance.

0 In planning costumes, heavy cot-
ton material will swing evenly and
gracefully. Light material “floats” too
easily and spoils the uniformity of the
set.

Getting New Leaders
When faced with the problem of get-
ting new leaders, Dave M. Langkam-
mer, Superintendent of Recreation, Al-
toona, Pennsylvania, showed ingenui-
ty. He obtained a roster of retired
teachers, selected certain of them to
call upon, and asked them if they
would like to help with the recreation
program. In this way, he found some
very fine leaders who were delighted
to have the opportunity to be of serv-
ice. The idea was double-barrelled, for
this also drew these people back into

the stream of community life.

Honoring Golden Agers

Ossining, New York, really is hon-
oring the Golden Age Club of that
city. Its members have been given spc-
cial stickers to put upon their car wind-
shields when they attend a meeting at
the recreation center. The stickers, inl-
printed with the words, “Golden Age
Club,” enahle the traffic officer on duty
to identify their cars. This has been
done in order that club members may
park as close to the center as possible,
thus avoiding a long walk and a ticket
for overtime parking.

RECREATION

How To Do lTll WM:

Make lloalina candles for gour nexi paring

 

All gou need is ~
l.Paraffin
2.Molcls

3. Wax cragons :
4.Rua garn l

 

DIRECTIONS

 

I. Mel‘r paraffin .
2. Gel desired color bq pulling colored wax craqon inio melled paraffin.
3. Pour colored paraffin inlo mold.

4. To pol wick in place soak piece of rug garn
in melied waxg lie ‘lo s‘lickg

cul desired lenqlhg when wax
on wick has congealed

place in posilion. The
wick sliffened bq llne wax

will slag in a ver‘lical posilion

when placed in ‘lhe melled paraifin.
7E) remoye can d/e Wle fled
l. “ ‘w‘f . 190m mo/a/ pg} [,7 l0 S‘l‘leo
warm wafer Hike/7

will/7 mo/d he/d upside do wn I‘ap geni/y .

 
 
   

Nell paraffin
in small pan ~
inside larqer pan oi waler.

 

5.When paraffin is congealed remove slick and cul~ wick '/2 inch long .
6

66 6666 6666 66666666
WWWWWWIIIIWIIIIWIIW‘IYIWUWWIIWW

NOVEMBER 1951 355

 

Accessories for the
Football Game“

“Puffy” is a seventeen-inch-squarc,
strongly made, flexible. vinyl plastic
seat cushion which, when inflated by
mouth—through a plastic valve tube—
puffs up into sixteen four-inch-square
sections. Roundcd sides and tops of
these sections allow air to circulate
freely and evenly while the cushion is
being sat upon, thus providing a cool.
comfortable sitting surface. The valve
tube folds over three times, to retain
the air, and tucks away in a specially
designed pocket. Deffated, the cushion
becomes easy to carry, and can be
tucked into a pocket or handbag. It
folds into a four-inch square, only a
half inch thick, and fits into a plastic
six - inch - square envelope. Sanitary,

 

waterproof, noninflammable and re-
sistant to stains, not only does it soften
the bleacher seats, but it is useful for
gardening, picnicking—on beach or
porch, and even serves in the bathtub.
Manufactured by Collier Manufactur-
ing Corporation, 430 West Grant Place,
Chicago 41, Illinois, it is available in
sixteen colors and retails for about

$2. 50.

“Sport-Ocular,’ binocular type
glasses of aluminum and two-tone
black plastic, weighing only three

ounces, are worn like sun glasses. Both

9

*Also, note to Christmas shoppers.

356

hands are free to check programs or
hold a hot dog and soda! Dustproof
lenses are 251nm. precision-ground and
polished, with three-power magnifica-
tion, and are easily focused by turning
a center disk. The glasses fold into a
small leather carrying case and are

 

equipped with a silk, detachable neck
cord. Price, $2.50, plus twenty per
cent Federal tax. Henry Hildebrant
and Associates, Burlington, Wisconsin.

When Athletes Move Indoors

Petersen and Company now offer
gym mats covered with Masland Dur-
an all-plastic, manufactured by the
Masland Duraleather Company. Ex-
ercising, tumbling, jumping and wres-
tling are made safer since this ma-
terial is not slippery and does not be-
come so with use. It cannot chip or
peel and the smooth surface elimi-
nates mat burn.

Petersen “super-mat” styles are top
surfaced with no tufting, and the com-
pany also Specializes in permanently
recovering old mats in this fashion.
Slip-covers of the material are avail-
able in various standard sizes, tailored
with handle openings. For prices and
information, write to the company at

Armat and Baynton Streets, Philadel-
phia 44, Pennsylvania.

Story of the Christ-Child

Half the fun of Christmas is get-
ting ready for it! In addition to the
glittering ornaments and holiday dec-
orations, something expressive of the
true Christmas spirit might well be
included in holiday plans. Kit number
52 is offered by Bersted’s Hobby-
Craft, Incorporated, of Monmouth, ll-

linois, to carry out this idea. Flexible
rubber, lifelike molds of the Christ-

child, Mary, Joseph and the three

wise men, molding powder and water
colors come in a box which is printed
ready to color and set up as a manger
background. The kit contains direc-
tions for molding the figures and a
hooklet telling the story of “The
Coming of Jesus.” Extra molds for
the shephcrd, a donkey and camel
also are available.

Bersted sponsors hobby clubs for
children between the ages of seven
and fifteen years, with headquarters in
local stores carrying the firm’s model
kits for making plaster cast toys of
human and animal figures. Purchase
of one or more molds (twenty-five
cents and up) entitles a child to reg-
ister for membership card and button.
Each member agrees to enter at club
headquarters every month one or more
models—finished with water colors and
varnished for protection. Models are
judged on a basis of most perfect cast-
ing, coloring and age of contestant.

Star Finder

Any group leader casting about for
a different hobby to interest the young
folks (the old folks, too) might look
through the Star Finder, priced at
$2.50. By what the Tri-G Company of
Linden, Missouri, calls the application
of optical illusion, the stars apparently
are labeled with their names and the
names and shapes of their constel-
lations. Thirty different charts are fur-
nished, to be inserted in this optical
instrument, which looks like a small
telescope. Starting with Polaris, the
pole star, and progressing down the
sky, changing the charts, the user may
identify over 135 -stars and forty-five
constellations. A system of keying con-
nects each region of the heavens with
another previously learned region.

RECREATION

   

RECREATION

is one of tbe fields in wbicb
SCHOOL ACTIVITIES

has been serving the schools of America
for twenty years. Under the editorship of
Dr. Harry C. McKown, well-known au-
thority on extracurricular activities, this
monthly magazine promotes the following
interests:

ACTIVITY PROGRAMS — Current thought of leaders in the field of democratic group activities.

SCHOOL ASSEMBLIES — An assembly program for each week of the school year.

CLASS PLAYS—Help in selecting and staging dramatic productions.

CLASS ORGANIZATIONS — Directions for the successful guidance of school groups.
FINANCING ACTIVITIES — Suggestions for financing student functions.

ATIILETICS — News and ideas on late developments in intra-mural and interscholastic sports.
DEBATE — Both sides of the current high school debate question.

DEPARTMENT CLUBS — Instructions and aids in the directing of school clubs of all types.
HOME ROOMS — Ideas and plans for educative home room projects.

PEP ORGANIZATIONS — Devices for stimulating loyalty and school spirit.

STUDENT PUBLICATIONS — Guidance in the production of school newspaper and yearbook.
PARTIES AND BANQUETS — Suggestions for educative and wholesome social activities.
STUDENT GOVERNMEN T — Sound direction in development of student sense of responsibility.
MISCELLANEOUS ACTIVITIES — Music, commencement, point systems, etc.

Subscription Price  Subscribe Now

School Activities Publishing Co.

1515 LANE STREET TOPEKA, KANSAS

NOVEMBER 1951

r

Books Received

 

ALL AROUND YOU, Jeanne Bendiek.
Whittlesey House, McCraw- Hill
Book Company, Incorporated, New
York. $2.00.

CAMP COUNSELOR, THE, Reuel A. Ben-
son and Jacob A. Goldberg. Me-
Craw-Hill Book Company, Incor-
porated, New York. $4.50.

CIIILD’S GARDEN OF VERSES, A, Robert
Louis Stevenson. Simon and Schus-
ter, Incorporated, New York. $1.50.

COMMUNITY ORGANIZATION AND AGEN-
CY RESPONSIBILITY, Ray Johns and
David F. De Marehe. Association
Press, New York. $3.75.

EXECUTIVE ROLE IN YMCA ADMINIS-
TRATION, edited by Gren 0. Pierrel.
Association Press, New York. $5.00.

FOOTBALL TECHNIQUES ILLUSTRATED,
Jim Moore. A. S. Barnes and Com-
pany, New York. $1.50.

GOLDEN GRAB BAG, THE. Simon and
Sehuster, Incorporated, New York.
$1.50.

GREAT BIG CAR AND TRUCK BOOK, THE.
Simon and Sehuster, Incorporated,
New York. $1.50.

KNOTS, SPLICES AND ROPE WORK, A.
Hayatt Verrill; revised by E. Armi-
tage MeCann. The Norman W. Hen-
ley Publishing Company, New York.
$2.00; paper, $1.50.

OUR REJECTED CHILDREN, Albert
Deutseh. Little, Brown and Com-
pany, Boston, Massachusetts. $3.00.

PHOTOGRAPHY FOR TEEN-AGERS, Lu-

  

vention in Boston.

ochials from coast to coast.

your play areas without obligation.

358

“A SOUND INVESTMENT IN a. comfouc
CHILD HEALTH AND SAFETY“  DURABrm

. . . that statement was enthusiastically agreed
to by our many friends who VISIted the Burke-
Built Playground exhibit at the recent con-

‘Ve are grateful for this and the many com-
plimentary remarks that came to our cars.

Burke-Built Equipment is backed by many years of ex-
perience and has the approval of park and playground

Choose Burke-Built Playground Equipment and you
choose the best. Burke engineers will help you plan

Write Dept. A for Catalog
THE .l. E. BURKE (20., Fond du lac, Wis.

TREASURY OF THE WORLD’S GREAT
MYTHS AND LEGENDS, A, Joanna
Strong and Tom B. Leonard. Ilart
Publishing Company, New York.
$3.75.

WISH ON THE MOON, Dean Marshall.

E. P. Button and Company, Incor-
porated, New York. $2.50.

cile Robertson Marshall. Prentice
Hall, Incorporated, New York. $2.95.

PROFILE OF YOUTH, edited by Maureen
Daly. J. P. Lippineott, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania. $2.95.

PUBLIC WELFARE DIRECTORY, 1951.
American Public Welfare Associa-
tion, Chicago, Illinois. $5.00, with
discounts for ten or more copies.

RESEARCH METHODS APPLIED TO
HEALTH, PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND
RECREATION, Sponsored by the Re-
search Section and the Research
Council of the Research Section of
the American Association for Health,
Physical Education, and Recreation.
American Association for Health,
Physical Education, and Recreation,

Washington, D.C. $5.00.
RETIRE AND BE HAPPY, Irving Salo-
mon. Greenberg, Publisher, New'

York. $2.95.

SCHOOLS FOR THE VERY YOUNG, Hein-
rich H. Waeehter and Elizabeth
Waechter. Architectural Record,
New York. $6.50.

SONG FOR ARAEELLE, A, Marguerite
Leslie. Coward-MeCann, New York.
$2.50.

SYNCHRONIZED SWIMMING, Fern Yates

and Theresa W. Anderson. A. S.

Barnes and Company, New York.
$3.50.

TERRY AND BUNKY LEARN TO SWIM,

Dick Fishel and Jack Medica. C. P.
Putnam’s Sons, New York. $1.75.

Magazines

AMERICAN CITY, August 1951
Construction Industry Solves Blue-

field’s Park Problems.

Two Complete Community Centers.

BEACH AND POOL, July 1951

Community Spirit Builds a Pool,
Daniel Reardon.

Miami Beach, “City of Pools.”

Operating at a Profit, Merritt A.
Wilson.

Acoustical Tile.

New and Better Equipment, Sup-
plies, Service.

PARK MAINTENANCE, April 1951

Water Features in Your Parks, Jan
B. Vanderploeg.

Brush Control In Modern Way Is
With Chemicals, Buford H. Grigs-
by.

PARK MAINTENANCE, May 1951

Festive Fanfare Endears Parks To
Public, Larry Raymer.

2, 4—D Spraying More Effective In
Low Temperatures, Buford H.
Grigsby.

Chemical War Keeps Chicago Trees
Healthy, H. H. Slawson.

 

AQUATICS, WINTER SPORTS AND OUT-
ING ACTIVITIES GUIDE. American As-
sociation for Health, Physical Edu-
cation and Recreation, 1201 Six-

teenth Street, NW, Washington 6,
D. C. 3.50.

CHILDREN’S FILM LIBRARY AND SPE-

    
    
  

CIAL CHILDREN’S PROGRAMS. Na-
.h tional Children’s Film Library, 28
West Forty-fourth Street, New York
18, New York.

COLLEGE UNIONS—1951. The Associa-
tion of College Unions, Edgar A.
Whiting, Secretary, Cornell Univer-
sity, Ithaca, New York. $1.50 to

non-members.

COMMUNITY SCIIOOL CAMPS. The De-
partment of Public Instruction, Lee
M. Thurston, Superintendent, Lans-
ing, Michigan.

 
     
   
   
     
 
    
 

RECREATION

 

The Party Game Book

Margaret E. Mulac and Marian S.
Holmes. Harper and Brothers, New
York. $3.00.

FEATURED HERE is fresh, new mate-

rial for the three major classifica-
tions Of parties:

1. Parties for special occasions——
birthdays, anniversaries, showers, fare-
well parties, engagements, housewarm
ings and the like.

2. Parties for holidays and special
days—Christmas, Halloween, Hanuk

kah, Fourth Of July, Groundhog Day
Mother’s Day.

3. Parties built around themes—J
Backwards Party, Penny Party, Kitch
en Party, Mystery Party, Western
Party and the like.

The authors have stayed away from?
elaborate decorations, expensive favors

and intricate fOOd recipes. They also
avoided old and hackneyed

games, stunts and contests. The rcsult
is good, well-chosen program material.

The Party Game Book is well worth
a place on your library shelf and
makes a fine companion for High,
Times, by Nellie Zetta Thompson,
which was reviewed in the April 1951
issue of RECREATION.

have

Let’s Square Dance

Kenneth Fowell, Director of Recrea-
tion, Great Falls, Montana. Order
from author. $2.50.

KENNETH FOWELL has done a very

good job in putting down in black
and white all the basic things which
underlie good square and round danc-
ing. His material is arranged in the
form Of a course for beginners. The
directions for steps and dance patterns
are remarkably explicit—which is
quite a feat, as most Of us who have

NOVEMBER 1951

new Publications

Covering the Leisure-time Field

ever tried tO write up explanations for
activities would agree.

The book actually SUpplements good
teaching. I doubt if anyone could read
the directions and get up and square
dance—but with the Opportunity for
instruction and practice, plus the study
of the contents Of.Let’s Square Dance,
a man or woman could be a better per-
former and could get greater enjoy-
ment from his skills in half the time
that it ordinarily might take—Helen
M. Dauncey, Katherine F. Barker Me-
morial Secretary for Women and Girls,
National Recreation Association.

The Troop Camp Book
Girl Scouts of the U. S. A. 155 East

Forty-fourth Street, New York. Cat-

alogue No. 19—640. $.65.

ERE IS A GUIDE for leaders or or-

ganizations sponsoring overnight
or longer camping trips for clubs or
groups, prepared with the detail and
thoroughness which we have come to
expect from the Girl Scouts. It covers,
in a well-organized way, all the neces-
sary steps—preliminary preparation,
advance planning, health and safety
measures, equipment, records and pro-
gram.

Appendix A has a series Of simple,
clear sketches of improvised Or home-
made equipment and gives directions
for making a blanketroll, blanketroll
cover, a first-aid roll, a knapsack, a
brown paper clothes bag, a charcoal
stove, waterproof matches and other
camping aids and necessities.

Appendix B contains a statement on
policy and a checklist on standards.

This is well-worth being added to
your camping and outing library. At-
tractively illustrated by Joseph Forte.

Public School Camping
James Mitchell Clarke. Stanford Uni-
versity Press, California. $3.00.
The story Of California’s pilot project
in outdoor education is a significant

contribution to the literature in this
field. The account Of the deve10pment
Of the San Diego County School Camp,
and the rather intimate description Of
the program, will be particularly help-
ful tO school administrators, teachers
and recreation leaders who are inter-
ested in the development and initiation
Of a school camping program for chil-
dren Of elementary school age.

The San Diego camp program is a
good example Of one type Of school
camping Operation that is deve10ping
in this country—namely, where a
school district has access to a camp on
a year-round basis and Operates a con-
tinuous program for boys and girls as
a part Of the regular school curriculum.

The story Of Camp Cuymaca, scene
Of San Diego’s pilot program, is a
fascinating account of the adventures
and direct-learning experiences which
boys and girls, along with their teach-
ers, can have in a camp. situation. As
many as thirty activities are described
in detail, and are so simply and at-
tractively written that a classroom
teacher can visualize how he, or she,
might do a comparable job.

Inasmuch as the description Of the
camping program is written entirely
about Cuymaca, and is particularly
unique tO that situation, the reader
should use his imagination freely in
adapting the program tO fit his own
need. One of the most encouraging
aspects Of this new and exciting de-
velopment in education is the fact that
it does not have blueprints, established
patterns of Operation or traditions.

The book also has an excellent fore-
word by Paul R. Hanna Of Stanford
University. a few well-chosen illustra-
tions and 182 pages Of interesting
reading for those who search for new
ways in education.———./ulian W. Smith,

Chief, Health, Physical Education, Rec-
reation, School Camping and Outdoor

359

Education, Department of Public In-
struction, Lansing, Michigan.

Theatre in the Round

Margo Jones. Rinehart and Company,

New York. $3.00.

One cannot hope to weigh the influ-
ence, nor measure the importance, of
various experiments which occur in our
theatre until the experiment has be-
come a part of our general foreground
and, therefore, something relatively
familiar. The arena form of theatre has
not yet become so much a part of our
theatre milieu as to fall into the above
category.

The states of mind which greeted
this form of theatrical medium in 1942,
when Glen Hughes reported his experi-
ence in the Penthouse Theatre, were
varied and, generally speaking, not too
favorable. To some, both theatre per-
sonnel and public, theatre-in-the-round
is not theatre at all in a true sense of
the word; to others, it is a veritable
answer to every production problem.

Fortunately, however, there also are
those who view theatre-in-the-round as
a healthy reminder of origins (for it is
perhaps the oldest form of theatre
known to the human race), as well as
a harbinger of theatrical progress.

To those who are of an open mind,
it is of great benefit that Margo Jones,
in this book, has set forth the story of
her ventures in the Dallas and Houston
theatres-in-the-round. B e c a u s e Miss
Jones has given us her story through
her experiments, techniques, methods
of development—even her trials and
errors—we are more able to estimate
intelligently the value of this dra-
matic medium. The material chosen in-
cludes sections on the resident profes-
sional theatre, techniques of theatre-in-
the-round and a log of plays.

Since the author intimately knows
both the proscenium and the arena
stage, we are helped to see the values
and problems involved in both. If one
is interested in using the latter to un-
leash theatrical interest in his town or
city, the necessary information on or-
ganization, finances, staging and choice
of plays is clearly and vividly present-
ed, step-by-step.

But, possibly, the main thesis set
forth throughout the text is the terrific

360

need of creating a theatre which will
be sufficiently widespread to reach the
potential audiences of America. “What
our country needs today, theatrically
speaking, is a resident professional the-
atre in every city having a p0pulation
of over one hundred thousand. The the-
atre-in-the-round presents a' way to
start.” The statement of this need,
which most persons will not deny, and
the practical .plan for meeting it,
should give to theatre-in-the-round a
place of consideration in our minds.

And yet, even though no one would
quarrel with the_ idea that the establish-
ment of a permanent resident profes-
sional theatre in most of our large
cities and towns would be a great fac-
tor in our cultural and creative de-
velOpinent, it is doubtful whether at
this stage of theatre-in-the-round there
could be more than a sporadic accept-
ance of it as an answer to that develop-
ment. First, acceptance on the part
of directors and sponsors must be
achieved. Techniques must be devel-
oped and actors trained in the adjust-
ment to a new style. And, possibly,
most difiicult and most necessary of
all, the American public will need to
be educated in the enjoyment and value
of the kind of drama which can best
be presented by this means.

The above statement does not negate
either the vast possibilities inherent in
Miss Jones’ plan for national and uni-
versal theatre nor deny the high ideal
voiced in the opening chapter, “The
Future: A Dream and a Plan”:

“Great civilizations of the past have
been judged by their culture; if ours is
to go on record as a great civilization,
we must match our mechanical prog-
ress with our cultural development.
And a part of this cultural development
is the propagation of theatre through-
out the world. It is more than a dream;
it is a necessity, and it must be ac-
complished.”—Grace Walker, Creative
Recreation Leadership Training Spe-
cialist, National Recreation Assn.

Competitive Sports in Schools
and Colleges

Harry Alexander Scott. Harper and
Brothers, New York. $5.00.
Dr. Harry A. Scott has not simply
tossed another book into the spate

washing over the areas of physical ed-
ucation, health education, recreation
and competitive sports of late. He has
made a definite contribution to the
literature of a particular segment of
thcsc arcas crying out for intei‘prcta-
tion of objectives, relationships and
educational significance.

The surprising thing about the vol-
ume—and the quality which should en-
dear it to all recreationists—is that
“recreation” and “play” (in the rec'-
reation scnse) find a place on the pages
naturally, easily and with arresting fre-
quency. Thcre is interesting historical
information and a cogent analysis of
the development of recreation pro-
grams in the schools.

Typical of Dr. Scott’s straight think-
ing is the following, in reference to
biological characteristics of girls and
women: “In general, the limiting fac-
tors fall into three groups: (1) those
that have no scientific foundation, but
are based upon timeworn prejudices;
(2) actual characteristics that are oh-
servable but interpreted in rclation to
social custom; and (3) proved biologi-
cal characteristics.”

In my opinion the book is a “must”
for physical educators and all others
who have anything to do with competi-
tive sports. In America, in this era, the
category would include practically ev-
erybody. Recreation leaders will un-
doubtedly find much of interest and
profit in the volume—G. 0:: Romney,
Dean, School of Physical Education
and Athletics, West Virginia Univer-
sity, Morgantown.

Television Series Available

Available free of charge to non-
profit organizations are mimeographed
copies of the scripts of a series of ex-
cellent television programs. These,
forming a trilogy, have been presented
by NBC under the over-all title, “A-
merican Inventory.” Each deals with an
age group and its problems. “The
Early Years,” “The Middle Years,”
and “The Later Years” are covered. In
addition, and also free, arc kinesc0pcs
of these same programs. If interested,
write to Teleprograms, Incorporated,

National Broadcasting Company, RCA
Building, Radio City, New York 20,

New York.

RECREATION

Recreation Leadership Courses

Sponsored jointly by tho National Recreation Association and local recreation departments

November, December, 1951, January 1952

Birmingham, Alabama
January 7-10

HELEN M. DAUNCEY
Social Recreation

Greenville, Alabama
January 14-17

Alabama
January 7-February 7

Midwest District
November 1-15

ANNE LIVINGSTON
Social Recreation

Tifton, Georgia
December 3-6

North Carolina
January 14-31

Wedowee, Alabama
November 5-8

MILDRED SCANLON
Social Recreation

Brewton, Alabama
November 12—15

Shreveport, Louisiana
January 7-10

Oklahoma City, Oklahoma
January 14-17

Amarillo, Texas
January 21-24

Galveston, Texas
January 28-31

Danville, Virginia
November 5-15

FRANK STAPLES
Arts and Crafts

Pacific Southwest District
Month of January

Pensacola, Florida
November 5-15

GRACE WALKER
Creative Recreation

Gastonia, North Carolina
November 26-29

I. F. Simmons, JeHerson County Board of Education

Frank H. Echols, Butler County Board of Education, and Miss

Betty Rogers, Supervisor of Instruction, Butler County Board of
Education

Mrs. Jessie Garrison Mehling, Supervisor, Health and Physical
Education, Department of Education, Montgomery

John J. Collier, District Representative, National Recreation Asso-
ciation, 949 North Prospect Avenue, Ypsilanti, Michigan

Dr. George P. Donaldson, President, Abraham Baldwin Agricul-
tural College, Abac Rural Station

Jamcs S. Stevens, Jr., Acting Director, North Carolina Recreation
Commission, 615 Hillsboro Street, Raleigh

J. L. Lovvorn, Randolph County Board of Education

0. C. Weaver, Escambia County Board of Education, and Miss
Ethel Holmes, Supervisor of Instruction, Escambia County Board
of Education

Clydc Stallcup, Superintendent of Recreation

Alvin R. Eggeling, Director, Oklahoma City Recreation Depart-
ment

Jack Hans, Director of Recreation, Park and Recreation Commis-
sion, North. Wing Municipal Auditorium

William Schuler, Director of Recreation, Menard Community
Center

V. C. Smoral, Superintendent of Recreation, Recreation Commis-
sion, 119 Municipal Building

Lynn S. Rodney, Room 424, 607 South Hill Street, Los Angeles,
California

Julian Olsen, Superintendent, Recreation Department, City Hall

Mrs. Dora R. Humphrey, Supervisor of Instruction, Gaston County
Schools, Board of Education

Attcndance at training courses conducted by National Recreation Association leaders usually is 0pcn to all who wish to attcnd.

For details as to location of the institute, contcnts of coursc, registration procedure and the like, communicate with the sponsors

of the courses as listed above.

 

72W CHRISTMAS LIST FOR l95|

Fun for Christmas

CASE OF THE MISBEHAVING TOYS, THE (MP 408)
—A play for boys and girls, with complete di-
rections for costumes, music and the like $.10

CHRISTMAS FAIRS (MB 984)—Three-in-onc
Christmas program for community centers.
Tells how to set up demonstration booths giv-
ing children and adults ideas for inexpensive
gifts and activities which can be carried on at

home .......................................................... ..$.10
CHRISTMAS PARTY, A (MB 1420) ............ ..$.10

GAMES, GAMES, GAMES TO MAKE YOUR CHRIST-
MAS PARTY MERRY (MB 1827)—Seven games

to liven up your party .............................. $.10
ICE-BREAKERS AND GAMES FOR CHRISTMAS (MB
1435) ........................................................ $.10
NIGHT BEFORE CHRISTMAS PARTIES WITH A
PURPOSE (F 28) ...................................... ..$.10
POLAR CHRISTMAS PARTY, A-——A party with an
Arctic theme .............................................. ..$.10
ST. GEORGE PLAY, THE (MP 56)—A rollicking
farce over three hundred years old ......... .. 3.10

ST. NICK SELECTS A FEW GAMES (F 31) ....$.10
SPICE OF CHRISTMAS GAMES, THE (MB 2015)—
Games for Christmas parties ................. .. $.10
WAYS TO DISTRIBUTE SMALL CHRISTMAS GIFTS
(MB 1587)—For club parties, large celebra-
tions .......................................................... ..$.10

Creating for Christmas

CHRISTMAS TREE ORNAMENTS FROM EGG SHELLS
(MB 1133) ................................................ $.10

CHRISTMAS WINDOWS (MB 586)—Use of cel-i'

lophane, Oiled paper and so on to brighten
your WindOWs ............................................ ..$.10

(Continued from October)

GIFTS AND GADGETS MADE OF PAPER (MP 297)
—Ideas for gifts and decorations .......... ..$.15

Christmas Is Serious

CANDLE-LIGHTING SERVICE, A (P 18) ...... ..$.10
CHRISTMAS CARNIVAL IN CAROLS AND PANTO-

MIMES (MP 296) ...................................... ..$.10
CIIRISTMAS CAROL LEAFLETS——per 100 ...... ..$.80

HERE WE GO A-CAROLING (MB 1897)—Brief
carol program suggestions for reader and
choir .......................................................... ..$.10

LA POSADA — AMERICAN STYLE (F 32) ———— A
Christmas carol service commemorating the
journey of Mary and Joseph from Nazareth to

Bethlehcm ................................................. .. $.10
SEVEN GIFTS, TIIE (MP 369)—A Christmas pan-
tomime about the Christmas star .......... ($.10

STORIES OF THE CHRISTMAS CAROLS (MP 60)
—Also suggcstions for “Learn a Carol a

Day” ......................................................... .. $.15

Recent Bibliographies
CIIRISTMAS MASQUES, FESTIVALS AND PAGEANTS

WITH MUSIC (MP 406) .............................. ..$.10
CHRISTMAS MUSIC (MP 216)——A listing of the
bcst collections .......................................... ..$.05

New Year’s and Twelfth Night Parties
BEGINNING OF TIIE YEAR GAMES (MB 1595) $.10

CROWN YOUR TWELVE MONTHS MERRILY (MP
265)—An unusual twelfth-night party to bring

the season to a close ....................... A, .... $.10
RING IN THE NEW (P 14)—Games and riecora-
tions for your New Year’s party ........ .. .....$.10
TURN-OVER-A-NEW-LEAF PARTY, A (MP 171)
—Decorations and program ................... .. $.10

WATCII NIGHT PARTY (MP 346)—Games, stunts,
relays and the like .................................. ..$.05

Available from the National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10, N.Y.

 

__ 

    

i.

it

0

