 

RECREATION

is one of the fields in w/oic/a
SCHOOL ACTIVITIES

  

has been serving the schools of America
for twenty years. Under the editorship of
Dr. Harry C. McKown, well-known au-
thority on Extracurricular Activities, this

monthly magazine promotes the following
interests:

ACTIVITY PROGRAMS — Current thought of leaders in the field of democratic group activities.
SCHOOL ASSEMBLIES — An assembly program for each week of the school year.

CLASS PLAYS—Help in selecting and staging dramatic productions. ,
CLASS ORGANIZATIONS -— Directions for the successful guidance of school groups.
FINANCING ACTIVITIES -— Suggestions for financing student functions.

ATHLETICS — News and ideas on late developments in intra-mural and interscholastic sports.
DEBATE — Both sides of the current high school debate question.

DEPARTMENT CLUBS — Instructions and aids in the directing of school clubs of all types.
HOME ROOMS — Ideas and plans for educative home room projects.

PEP ORGANIZATIONS - Devices for stimulating loyalty and school spirit.

STUDENT PUBLICATIONS -— Guidance in the production of school newspaper and yearbook.
PARTIES AND BANQUETS — Suggestions for educative and wholesome social activities.
STUDENT GOVERNMENT — Sound direction in development of student sense of responsibility.
MISCELLANEOUS ACTIVITIES — Music, commencement, point systems, etc.

Subscription Price  Subscribe New

School Activities Publishing Co.

1515 LANE STREET TOPEKA, KANSAS

 
 
 
  
  
 
     
    

In every field of sport in Profes-
sional. Semi-Pro and Amateur Base-
ball and Softball. in Universities.
Colleges and High Schools. in Mu-
nicipal and Industrial Recreation,
MacGregor-Goldsmith Sports
Equipment is recognised as a hall-
marl of quality and unvarying
performance.

 WW?“ €044?!” I“ 

' nits-eel
ctNCtNNA‘H Is. OHIO. II. a. A

OFFICIAL

prrcmnc
D HORSESHOES

SUPER RINGER

JUNIOR SHOE

Diamond Calk manufactures the most complete line of

 

pitching horseshoes and accessories, Including the
Super-Eagle, and Double Ringer, and also the lighter
weight Junior shoes. All shoes are made from highest
grade steel, forged to exact welght for perfect bal-
ance. Carried in stock by most hardware distributors
everywhere.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHDE 00.

4616 Grand Avenue - Duluth, Minnesota

THIS BIG ILLUSTRATED

 LEATHERCRAFT

CATALOG AND GUIDE

   
 
 
  
 
  

LARSON LEATHERCRAFT
FOR CRAFTS CLASSES

Complete Stock o Prompt Shipment

Leathereraft is our only business, and our stock is the
largest and most complete in America. That is why you
can always depend upon immediate and complete ship-
ment of orders sent to us. “'hether your requirements
are for beginners’ kits needing no tools or experience. for
very young boys and girls, or tooling leathers, supplies
and tools or older, more advanced students 0 hobbyists.
be sure to check the LARSON LEATHERCRA CATA-
LOG iirst. “'rite today for your FREE copy of our new
at

24-fage illustrated Catalog and Guide to est Leather-
cra t

  
 

They All Clamor For More !-

TRAMPOLINING! The bouncing sport and
play for youngsters, teen-agers, adults. Tre-
mendous spectator appeal . Founded by
NISSEN, originator of America’s FIRST
Standard Trampoline.

    
    

projects.

J. C. LARSON COMPANY

The Foremost Name in Leothercraft
820 S. Tripp Avo., Dept. 807, Chicago 24, Ill.

   
 
     
   
 
  

NISSEN MODEL 549-1’. Latest in Trampoline.
Write for FREE literature

    
 
 
     

J. C. lARSON CO., Dept. 807
820 S. Tripp Ave., Chicago 24, Ill.

Pl ase send me a FREE copy -of your latest
24-ngc Illustrated Catalog and Guide to leather-

craft.
\‘ wr‘ _ - . _
umREss - - _ - I

‘|—F—b-—r—1—r-§

“Name TRAMPOLIN'E Reg. U.S. Uat. Off.

   

   

CEDAR RAPIDS, IOWA

    

200 A AVE. NW

MARCH 1951

 

   

 

_:;5:___.__-:EEEE:::

No. 2178 "Haistowoy" Backstops equipped with No. 2373 Fan-Shaped
Banks provide sturdy, attractive equipment that can be hoisted to the ceil-
ing at Milford Mill Road Jr. High School, Baltimore County, Maryland. 5

 

at leading gym from coast-to—comt
t/ae c/aoz’ce 2'5 Porter. . .

in Maryland iiiner

For many years leading schools, universities,
clubs and communities all over America have
looked to Porter for assistance in equipping

 

their gymnasiums.  standards 0f manu- When raised, "Hoistaway" backstops clear the gymnasium
. . for other activities, remove side-court backboards from
faCIuring coupled With an eagerness to serve, spectators” line of vision. Gymnasium apparatus as well

. . . as backstaps was Supplied by Porter of Milford.
and serve well—have buxlt this outstanding

Porter leadership. Whether your requirement . .
Porter’s seasoned engineers will help you, With-

15 for basketball backstops, or gymnastic ap- out obligation, Plan your gymnasium equip

Paratus, 01- both__.you can rely on Porter ment. Years of experience in meeting all kinds
of installation problems qualify them to render

for the best. you a real service.

Free Engineering Counsel

 

THE J. E. I o R I E R CORPORATION Ottawa, Illinois
Manufacturers of Gymnasium, Playground and Swimming Pool Equipment
CHICAGO OFFICE: 684 N. Michigan Ava. Chicago 11, Phone: Sllperior 1-7252 NEW YORK OFFICE: 11 it. 42111! St. New York 18, Phone: [Ongocre 3-1342

 

530 RECREATION

‘ MARCH 1951

 

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT
CONTENTS

 

General Features

 

   

Editor, JOSEPH Passosncasr Qualities of a Professional Recreation Worker
Manned”? Edit?” DOROTHY DONALDSON (editorial), Eduard C. Lindeman, Ph.D. .................... .. 533
B Edt‘o’jj Asgstané’osgliiifggggjmz Recreation Comments .................................... .. . .- . 534
usiness ana er, s .
ASSOCIATE EDITORS Easter 1951 (poem), Muriel McGann ,. 536
Recreation Administration, GEORGE BUTLER Searchllghts Sweep the Sky ................. .. . 537
Program Activities, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN Do You Really Lack Leaders? Jean and Jess Ogden 542
m Home-Made Easter Egg Hunt .................................... .. . 544
° ° A New Cam for the Handica ed, Ruth Radir.  546
P PP
011 the Cover The Call of Close Harmony, Walter Jay'Stephens. 549
The singing of carols at Easter time,1 which is lies; The Group Worker in the Recreation Center,
becoming a custom in merica, is ony a reviva 0
an Old World practice of earlier days_when it was Dr. Grace  Coyle ................................................ .. 
a means of expressing the genera1 happiness of the The College Outing Club, James C. Loveless and
day. (See pages 536 and 537.) Photo courtesy E th G P t 5,58
Reading Department of Public Recreation, Pennsyl- S er . os ..............................................  ..... .. .
vania. In a Child’s Untroubled World, Ogden G. Dmght. . . 561
Next Month Preventive Recreation, Ben Solomon ....................... .. 562
Never has the April, Playground Issue, of RECREA. Mental Hygiene Concept of Recreation in the National
T101“ been 50 overHOWing With information and ideas Emergency Dr. George S. Stevenson ..................  ........ .. 573
for playground programs, facilities and leadership. ’ ____
A symposium on wading pools—“Wading Pools— FOIk SOHgSHAS a HODDY, Dorothy  Johnson. . DID
An Asset or a Liability?”—gives the Pros and cons’ Win Place or Show ......................................... .. 576
in terms of experience, of this question which was . ’ " ' _
raised at the Midwest Executives Recreation Con- Unlted Defense Fund, Incorporated .................. .. 518
ference last year; an excellent article on the use of Index to Volumn XLIV RECREATION NIagazine.
films in the training of playground leaders is one . ’ ’ __ g
of several articles on training and on leadership Apr111950—March 1951 ....................  ......... .. o8:
'techniques; a helpful article on the selecting and Administration
leading of low organization games has been pre- . o _
pared by Helen Dauncey; and everybody .shoulfl Recent F ac111ty Developments ........................ .. 038
£31er iiwlth Standards for Chlldrens A Public Opinion Survey—in Louisville,
Ph C d, George-Anna Carter ............................ .. i- 345
cm re Its , , German Leaders Study Recreation in the United States 569
PageN536’yMleE C0113umbm’ sow; 193331“; If)an Executive and Board Relationships 571.
539, ew or ity epartment 0 ar 5 an a -    '
land Tribune, California; page 540, Austin Recrea- Just Around the Corner (National Park and
tion Department, Texas; page 541, Detroit Depart- R . W k 579
ment of parks and Recreation, Michigan; page 548‘ ecreation ee ) ...........  ............................ .,
Syracuse Recreation Department, New York; page Recreation Leadership Training Programs—1951 379
549, New York City Department of Parks; page . . .
- - Pro ram Activrtres
578, Red Feather Magazme Serwce, New York. g _
Whistling Eggs ........................................ .. , ..... .4 $48
RECREATION is published monthly except July St. Patrick’s Day Party, Mildred Scanlon 553

   

and August by the National Recreation Associa-
tion, a service organization supported by voluntary

 
 

Rhythm Activities in the Recreation Program,

 
   
     
   
   
         
   
 
          
     
   
   
   
       
 

contributions, at 315 Fourth Avenue, New York - - "'-
10d, Neiw Yogk; is (an 51%indpubslicbljbraries aggoig Anne lemgston .......................................... .. 3.);
in cxe in t e Rea ers’ ui e. u scriptions . ° _ . "' "
i gearilggngansagencxv G. If? Welchl Cgmpany, Recrpes for Fun Scooter Hockey .. )6.
t ., ' g treet est, oronto , ntario; "'"7'
Canacclliarlr subscription5L falte2§3.§g:50Re-entt§redp as HOW we DO   """"""  "" "1"." 
secon -c ass matter pri , , at e ost _ - . 3 L,
Ofiice in New York, New York, under Act of HOW To. D0“It rank  tap es _0
March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special Convention Breathers. Ruth Garber Ehlers 303
rate of postage provided for in Section 1103, Act ‘
of October 3, 1917, authorized May 1, 1924. Regular Features
Advertising and Production Oflice: Ioncs Press, - r -"' "
Fifth and Fifth South, Minneapolis 15, Minnesota. Thlngs You ShOUId know  ---- --  - -- .- 0337
Space Representatives: Robert Edgell, 104 East ' m  IS . 
{prtiilth Stlrggt,NNew Yor];l 16, New Yorlgthark yagaznres  fa DI]? e W)”
ina an, orth Mic igan Avenue, ‘cago, reatlon ar '31; ews  Wu
Illinois; Keith H. Evans, 3757 \Vilshire Boulevard, ec -,_
Los Angeles 5. California. Personnel, W. C. Sutherland tu
COpyright, 1951 by the T , - - ' '
National Recreation Association, Incorporated he“ PUbhcatlons  33“
Punted “1 the U‘S'A‘ Recreation Leadership Courses lnslde Ba. k (Mar

MARCH, 1951 531

 

NATIONAL RECREATION

ASSOCIATION

A Service Organization Supperted by Voluntary Contributions
Executive Director, JOSEPH PRENDERGAST

 

ADRIAN M. MAssIE .

 

OFFICERS

OTTO T. MALLERv . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ......Chairman of the Board
PAUL MOORE. JR. . . . . .  . . . . . .  . . . . . . ..First Vice-President
MRs. OGDEN L. MILLs.

BOARD OF DIRECTORS

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .SecOnd Vice-President
SusAN M. LEE. .Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board
................................Treasurer
CUSTAVUS T. KIRaY. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Treasurer Emeritus
JOsErn PRENOERGAsT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Secretary

 

 

F. W. H. ADAMs  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . ,. . .New York, N. Y. MRs. CHARLEs V. HIGKOx . . . . . . . . . . . . .....Michigan City. Ind.

F. GREGG BEMIs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Boston, Mass. Mns. JUHN D. JARIEsON . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Bellport, N. Y.

Mns. RanR-r WOODs Buss . . . . . . . . .'. . . . . . . .. .Washington, D. C. SUSAN M. LEE . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .New York, N. Y.

MR3. ARTHUR G. CUMMER . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . .JacksDnville. Fla. OTTO T. MALLERv . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Philadelphia, Pa.

WILLIAM H. DAVIS . . . . . . . . . . .  York, N. Y. CARL E. MILLIKEN . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Augusta. Me.

HARRY P. DAVIsON . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . .New York, N. Y. MR3. OGDEN L. MILLs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Woodbury, N. Y.

MR5. PAUL GALLAGHER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Omaha. Nebr. PAUL MOORE, JR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Jersey City. N. J.

RODERT GARRETT . . . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Baltimore. Md. JOSEPH PRENDERGAsT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .-.New YOrk, N. Y.

ROBERT GRANT, 3rd . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Oyster Bay, N. Y. MR3. SIGMUNO STERN . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .. San Francisco, Calif.

Attan E. GRIrrITns . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Seattle, Wash. GRANT TITSWORTH. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .. . . . . . . .Noroton, Conn.

MR5. NORMAN HARROWER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Fitchburg, Mass. J. C. WALsH . . .. .. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Yonkers, N. Y.
H FREDERIGK M. WARaURG  York, N. .
HEADQUARTERS STAFF
Executive Director’s Office Research Department service to States _ _ , _ , , ,Roaznr R. Gum“:

GEORGE E. DIGxIE THOMAS E. RIvERs
Ross JAY SCHWARTZ ARTHUR WILLIAMS
WALOO R. HAINSWORTH

Correspondence and Consultation
Service

VIRGINIA MusssLsIAN
GERTRUDE BORGHARD LORAINE WILLIAIus

Editorial Department

DOROTHY DDNIALDSON SONIA RAGR_LIN
Personnel Service

WILLARD C. SUTHERLANO MARY GuaERNAT

GEORcE D. BUTLER
MDRIEL MGGANN ELIEAaETH CLIFTON

Work with Volunteers

E. BEATRIGE STEARNs
MART QUIRK MARGARET DAwaORTR

Field Department

CHARLES E. REED
DOROTuv FORGANG JAMES A. MADIan

Areas and Facilities—Planning and Surveys
H. -C. HUTGHINS ALAN B. BURRITI

Katherine I". Barker Memorial I
Secretary [or Women and Girls
a HELEN M. DAUNCEY

Industrial Recreation. . . . . . .C. E. BREWER

Recreation Leadership Training Courses

RUTH EIILERs ANNE LIVINGSTON
MILDRED SGANLON FRANK A. STAPLEs
GRAGE WALKER

M

New England District
RIGIIARO S. WESTGATE . . . . . . .POrtland. Me.

Middle Atlantic District
JOHN W. FAusr. . . . .. . . .East Orange. N. J.

GEDRGE A. NEsaITT . . . . . . .Ncw YDrk, N. Y.
Great Lakes District
JOHN J. COLLIER . . . . . . . . . . ..ToledO. Oth

RDaEnT L. HORNE? . . . . . . . . .Madison, Wis.

DISTRICT REPRESENTATIVES

Southern District

MIss MARION PREECE . . . . ..Alexandria, Va.
RALPH VAN FLEET ......Clearwater. Fla.
WILLIAM M. HAY... . . . . . .Nashville. Tenn.

North Central District

ARTHUR TODO . . . . . . . . . . .Kansas City. Mo.
HAROLD LATHROP. . . . . . . . . . . .Denver, Colo.

Southwest District

HAROLD VAN ARsoALE . . . . . . ..Dallas, Tex.

Pacific Northwest District

WILLARD H. SHUMARD . . . . ..Seattle. Wash.

Pacific Southwest District

LvNN S. RODNEY . . . . ..Los Angeles. Calif.

 

Affiliate Membership

Affiliate membership in the National

Recreation AssociatiOn is open to all non-

profit private and public organizations
whose function is wholly or primarily the
provision or promotion of recreation serv-
ices or which include recreation as an im-
portant part of their total program and
whose cooperation in the work of the asso-
ciation would, in the opinion of the associa-
tion‘s Board Of Directors. further the ends
of the national recreation mOvement.

Active Associate Membership

Active associate membership in the
National Recreation Association is open to
all individuals who are actively engaged
On a full-time or part-time employed basis
or as volunteers in a nonprofit private or
public recreation organization and whose
cooperation in the work Of the association
would, in the Opinion of the association's
Board of Directors. further the ends of the
national recreation movement.

Contributors

The continuation Of the wOrk of the
National Recreation Association from year
to year is made possible by the splendid
cooperation of several hundred volunteer
sponsors throughout the country, and the
generous contributions of thousands Of
supporters of this movement to bring health.
happiness and creative living to the boys
and girls and the men and women of
America. If you would like to join in the
support of this movement, you may send
your contribution direct to the association.

 

The National Recreation Association is a nation-
wide, nonprolit, nonpolitical and nonsectarian civic
organization, established in 1906 and supported by
voluntary contributions, and dedicated to the service
of all recreation executives, leaders and agencies,

public and private, to the end that every child in
America shall have a place to play in safety and
that every person in America, young and old, shall
have an opportunity for the best and most satisfy-
ing use of his expanding leisure time.

For further information regarding the association’s services and membership, please write to the
Executive Director, National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10, New York.

 

532

RECREATION

QUALI’I‘IES

of a professional recreation worker

an editorial by Eduard C. Lindeman, Ph.D.

T IS ONE of the characteristics of hu-
l man language that words tend to
lose their specific meanings in direct
ratio to increase in usage. On this ac-
count, it becomes
necessary to re-ex-
amine certain com-
mon words from
time to time.
Through such re-
examinations, we
discover new shades
of meaning which
have accrued through expanded use.
The word “profession” is such a con-
cept. Since all human activities tend
to become, in one way or another,
professional, it has come about that
‘ the word “profession” gets used with
increased frequency. What, then, is its
modern meaning?

Originally, a profession was a dec-
laration of faith, a kind of vow or
promise. As an adjective, the word

 

“professional” was applied to law,
medicine, the clergy and even to the
military as early as the sixteenth cen-
tury. It was not, however, until the
nineteenth century that a sharp distinc-
tion was made between a professional
and an amateur person. It was also in
that same century that certain politi-
cians were called professional in a dis-
paraging and cynical manner. During
the last decade or more, it has become
evident that a need has arisen for more
precise descriptions of professional
persons. What follows is a preliminary
attempt to respond to this need in one

 

DR. EDUARD C. LINDEMAN was formerly

professor of social philosophy at the
New York School of Social Work, Co-
lumbia University of New York City.

MARCH 1051

sphere, namely that of the modern rec-
reation specialist.

A professional recreation worker is
a person who has acquired a set of
skills which he knows how to put to
use in concrete situations. He becomes
professional, not because he possesses
these skills, but because he can supply
valid reasons for assuming that these
skills will produce certain results when
utilized in concrete situations. In other
words, he becomes professional to the
extent that he has scientific reasons for
doing what he does. This quality im-
plies readiness to alter skills in the
light of new facts.

A professional recreation worker is
a person who recognizes the inviolable
connection between means and ends.
Through this recognition and its prac-
tice he becomes a phi1050pher. He is
not a genuinely professional person
so long as he strives to achieve good
ends through the use of undesirable
means.

A professional recreation worker is
a person who understands and ac-
commodates himself to the community
process. This capacity includes an un-
derstanding of politics, institutional
roles and operations, the functions of
democratic leadership and those in-
numerable and subtle relationships
which constitute the “plot” of the
community in which he labors. Hav-
ing achieved such understanding, the
modern recreation worker becomes a
sociologist. When he learns how to put
this knowledge to practical use in en-
hancing the recreational life of his
comnmnity, he becomes a “social en-
gineer.”

A professional recreation worker is
a person who understands the nature

of modern leisure. It is no longer rea-
sonable to regard leisure as the mere
antithesis of labor. In industrial so-
cieties, leisure becomes an important,
perhaps the most important, cultural
category. It symbolizes freedom, and it
is through our employment of free-
dom that we eXpress our deeper sense
of values. Those recreation workers
who attain such comprehensions thus
become critics and interpreters of to-
day’s culture.

A professional recreation worker is
a person who understands the signifi-
cance of human relations. Our person-
alities are moulded by our capacity to
sustain working relations with other
pe0ple. Since it is one of the stated
goals of modern recreation to facili-
tate this process of interpersonal rela-
tions, it becomes obvious that the
professional recreation specialist must
exemplify this quality in his own be-
havior. Those who do so become social
psychologists.

A modern professional recreation
worker, according to my criteria, be-
comes a skilled practitioner, a scien-
tist, a philosopher, a sociologist, a cul-
tural anthropologist and a social psy-
chologist. Have I set an impossible
standard? Can these diverse qualities
be anticipated in any single individ-
ual? My answer to the first question
is an emphatic “No!” The standard is
not too high. And I take courage in
responding with an equally emphatir-
“Yes!” to my second question because
I have seen this combination of qual-
ities in some of our best recreation
leaders. Standards cannot be set too
high for a profession which has a task
of such profound importance.

Because recreation is still new to
professional requirements, one often
finds the above qualities in persons
who do not own a professional sym-
bol. They have acquired their profi-
ciency through practice. Professional
training schools should now find ways
of endowing such persons with profes-
sional rating. Their curricula for fu-
ture recreation workers should, so I
believe, be revamped to correSpond
with the above criteria. A number of
national recreation groups are formu-
lating principles which give added
hOpe that some of my ideal concep-
tions are approaching realization.

533

RECREATION

 

Administrative Planning—
|ts Effective rUse

Sirs:

The article, “Administrative Plan-
ning—Its Effective Use,” in the Janu-
ary issue of RECREATION, is very time-
ly and thoughtful. Recreation workers
have been, at times, accused of being
opportunists or careless enthusiasts
and, possibly, the reason their batting
average is so high is because, in the
majority of cases, the adverse criti-
cism is not true.

. . . I was impressed with the com-
ment that skill in administration goes
hand in hand with the understanding
of the philosophy of the recreation
movement.

How can we continue to dream
dreams if the emphasis is entirely up-
on the accomplishment of activities?
A fundamental human need is always
the stimulation of a new dream, and
the measuring of this need sows seeds
for its alleviation.

To keep pace with city administra-
tors, the recreation director must have
Vision for today and tomorrow. He
must have the kind of mind that can
weigh and measure values in terms of
human needs. He cannot be a lone wolf
in performance. His enthusiasm and
careful planning will gain the respect
and cooperation of his city fathers as

they jointly approach the problems
of their constituents.

AS the author has so well said,
plans are only “a system of ideas or-
ganized and set down for easy refer-
ence.” We must have the cooperative
doer as well as the dreamer.

GRANT D. BRANDON, DIR.
RECREATION DEPARTMENT
LANCASTER, PENNSYLVANIA

534

. . . The author states that “ines-
capably, the recreation executive must
expand his knowledge of public admin-
istration and play his full part in the
partnership of government.” How true,
but most recreation executives cannot
find the time. Many have never had the
opportunity to take a course in public
administration at college. For those
who have never had a course or have
had little time to study public adminis-
tration, let me recommend the corre-
spondence course of the Institute for
Training in Municipal Administration,
1313 East Sixtieth Street, Chicago 37,
Illinois. The fee for such a course is
thirty-five dollars and covers fifteen
lessons, taught by a capable instructor.
The name of the course is “The Tech-
nique of Municipal Administration.”

The reader of “Recreation Com-
ments” will also be interested in a
course offered by the same institute en-
titled “Municipal Recreation Adminis-
tration.” This course is a mighty fine
refresher for executives and an excel-
lent study of the municipal recreation
problem for beginners, supervisors
and others who wish to go up the rec-
reation ladder. One doesn’t have to at-
tend college to take a course in public
administration.

The author is correct. Those of us in
the field of recreation administration
should have a good knowledge of pub-
lic administration techniques.

THOMAS W. LANTz, SUPT.
RECREATION COMMISSION
TACOMA, WASHINGTON

Sire:
. . . That the adolescent period of
public recreation has definitely passed

is the concensus of opinion of those
who are professionally identified with
the recreation movement. The task at
hand is to bring those who are not so
identified to the same conviction. It
would seem, therefore, that a most im-
portant objective of the recreation ex-
ecutive should be, as the author of
the administrative planning article in-
dicates, to direct a sizable amount of
his time and effort to the phases of
planning which will effect for recrea-
tion a place of due importance in the
community picture.

In other words, I advocate that in
addition to the adoption of depart-
mental planning, Which undoubtedly
will accomplish much toward the de-
sired objective, recreation executives
should extend their planning to the
point where recreation becomes an es-
sential element in community man-
agement. The attainment of this end
through contacts with, and the formu-
lating of graphic plans for, the proper
municipal executives, will eliminate, in
the future, many of the past difficulties
experienced by recreation in its deal-
ings with mayors, city managers, legis-
lative bodies, boards of education,
planning boards and other agencies in
the community. Planning is a “must”
in the recreation future.

, STEPHEN H. MAHONEY, SUPT.
RECREATION COMMISSION
CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS

Sirs:

. . . I would extend the statement of
Mr. Mitchell in his article, “Adminis-
trative Planning—Its Effective Use,” in
your January issue—“Therefore, it
seems reasonable to claim that good
administration is that which will blend
philosophy and facilities into a success-
ful recreation undertaking”——to include
philosophy, public relations, facilities,
leadership, community, agency and
governmental coordination into a suc-
cessful recreation undertaking.

Good administrative planning must
include every conceivable group in a
community being considered, if not
consulted, before positive action is
taken. Long-range planning is the

sane, practical solution for economy in
democratic government.

J. T. F EMAL, DIR.

DEPARTMENT OF RECREATION
BLOOMINGTON, INDIANA

RECREATION

V

 

 

O PLANS FOR THE 1951 Congress to be
held at the Hotel Statler, in Boston,
from October first to fifth, are now
under way; committees are in the proc-
ess of formation. The Recreation Con-
gress Advisory Committee is being ex-
panded somewhat this year and will
include representation from recreation
executives, supervisors, board mem-
bers and there will also be representa-
tion from the military forces,,from
rural, church, hospital, industrial and
education fields. State interests will be
represented as will those Of private
agencies interested in recreation.

.THE UNITED COMMUNITY DEFENSE
Services has recently been incorpo-
rated. Francis W. H. Adams, a member
Of the Board Of Directors of the Na-
— tional Recreation Association, and JO-
seph Prendergast, executive director,
have been elected to its Board of
Directors.

0 PLANS FOR LEADERSHIP TRAINING
courses—sponsored by the National
Recreation Association—are, in many
instances, being adapted to serve de-
velopments brought about by the pres-
ent national emergency. NRA training
personnel are prepared to cover rccre-
ation for men in uniform and for de-
fense workers and their families.
Special visits to several critical com-
munities in Alabama and Georgia, to
study the effect of the emergency situa-
tion upon recreation programs for
women and girls in particular, have
just been completed by an NRA train-
ing specialist. Most of these communi-
ties are located adjacent to military
establishments, and one will soon have
a large defense plant in the immediate
vicinity. A report of the findings will
appear in a later issue Of RECREATION.

MARCII 1951

0 TWO VOLUMES OF THE 1950 REPORT
Of the President’s Water Resources
Policy Commission are now in print
under the title A Water Policy for the
American People. Volume I consists of
the General Report; Volume II, Ten
Rivers in America’s Future; Volume
III, Water Resources Law. Volume I
carries an excellent chapter on recrea-
tion, with a list Of recommendations.

0 THE NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCI-
ATION has accepted membership on a
special committee of the Federal Secu-
rity Agency to assist in calculating for
the National Production Authority the
over-all material requirements of the
municipal park and recreation depart-
ments Of the country for 1951 and
1952. These facts are tO be used by
the National Production Authority as
a guide in the allocation of materials
for local community recreation pur-
poses.

An emergency task was undertaken
and samplings were made Of materials
needed which require metals, especial-
ly steel, aluminum and copper, on
which national estimates could be pro-
jected. Final estimates Of the nation-
wide needs for some seventy to eighty
items were completed by February
nineteenth. Additional inventories are
anticipated from time to time, possibly
each quarter.

0 A NATIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE
on Defense Related Services, composed
Of fifty outstanding recreation workers
throughout the country, has been ap-
pointed by the NRA. These workers
represent the major national profes-
sional groups in recreation and a rep-
resentative cross-section Of local recre-
ation executives who had war-recrea-
tion experience in World War II, and

who are now executives in communi-
ties impacted by the defense program
or both. Through this committee, the
association will be able to plan and di-
rect its services, as needed, to meet
actual local needs. George Hjelte has
accepted its chairmanship.

The provision of these special serv-
ices for 1951 has already been started
on the basis Of a conservative estimate
of the amount which will be available

through the United Defense Fund.

0 THE ARMED FORCES have been tum-
ing to the National Recreation Associ-
ation for trained civilian recreation
leaders in large numbers, necessitating
a substantial program of recruiting.
They have also asked for cooperation
in discovering recreation personnel en-
tering the armed forces, so that they
can arrange for their assignment to
recreation Service in the armed forces.
Civilian agencies needing additional
recreation workers for their armed
forces programs are also turning to the
association, as it maintains what is
probably the largest file of profession-
al workers in the country. Some ten
thousand individuals are listed.

. ENCOURAGING WORD HAS COBIE from
the Public Housing Administration in
Washington, and from local recreation
departments, showing a closer coopera-
tion of the two in providing over-all
community recreation service. How-
ever, there still is great need for this
cooperation, service and its careful
planning in many cities.

0 SOME THIRTY PEOPLE, representing
hospital recreation workers, have or-
ganized a Kansas Hospital Recreation
Association. They will hold their next
regular meeting at the Central District
Recreation Conference in Kansas City,
Missouri, March twenty-eighth to

thirty-first.

0A NEW MOVIE—Our Changing
World—is a seventy-two minute color
film dealing with the creation of the
world and the life upon it. It carries
excellent commentary, accurate scien-
tific data, unusual nature shots, splen-

‘ did background music, and is suitable

for both children and adults. For in-
formation, write John Ott Film Li-
brary, Incorporated, 730 Elm Street,
Winnetka, Illinois—and mention REC-
REATION magazine.

6355

The cross serving as background
for the Easter Sunrise Service,
in Columbia, South Carolina.

536

I in

_I - 1&2.”
.X ' _a
 25¢

 

EASTER - 1951

Dear Lord, in deep humility we kneel, this Easter day;
For knowledge turned to warlike use, forgiveness we do pray.

From all Thy righteous teachings we have wandered far astray;
But, Lord, look down with mercy on our children at their play.

Dear Lord, heed not the voices of the boastful men who dare
To claim for their own race, of privilege a greater share;

But hear the music that is rising from our playgrounds, where
The laughter of our happy children rings so sweet upon the air.

Dear Lord, have mercy still upon Thy people as they pray,

Because we walk, though slowly, slowly upward on Thy way;
Because in love and brotherhood we grow from day to day,
And we have builded places where a little child may play.

MURIEL E. MCGANN

RECREATION

T int: RAYS of scarchlights begin to
circle the sky as early as four o’clock
on Easter mom, in Columbia, South
Carolina. They can be seen for miles
around, as travel starts to the beauti-
ful sunrise service held in a natural
amphitheatre in Earlewood Park.

A carpet of green grass covers the
amphitheatre. Dogwood, crab apple
and Judas trees, yellow jessamine and
wisteria vines add color to the mag-
nificence of the towering native pines.

The service is a citywide affair,
sponsored by the Columbia Recrea-
tion Department. Columbians have
been made to feel that the program is
theirs, and the response received from

SEARUHLIGHTS SWEEP THE SKY

MARCH 1951

churches, civic organizations, city de-
partments and clubs is excellent. Even
the lights are furnished free!

Members of the Junior Chamber of
Commerce work with the City Traffic
Division in streamlining traflic. The
patrons and mothers clubs of the city
parks assist the Earlewood Patrons
Club in serving as hostesses. Hot cof-
fee and doughnuts are prepared for
program participants. The Red Crdss
sets up a first-aid center. The men’s
civic clubs perform as ushers and the
women’s clubs have charge of the pro-
grams. The garden elubs have ar-
ranged the beautiful setting and, with
the help of the fire department’s long
ladder, placed a large spray of Easter
lilies, tied with purple ribbon, upon
the cross. A Hammond Organ is made
available through the courtesy of a
local music store.

The program begins a half hour be-
fore sunup, with antiphonal music
rising above the still, dark pines. This
is played by local musicians and mem-
bers of the Fort Jackson Band. The
processional music starts with the first
rays of the sun. The choir is com-
posed of a local choral group of fifty
male voices. The audience participates
in the singing of familiar hymns.

Last year, over two hundred Boy
Scouts—wearing white helmets—
formed a huge human cross, giving the
effect of a reflection of the large,
lighted cross upon the stage. About ten
thousand persons attended.

Citywide Easter
Service in

Columbia, South

Carolina

53?

 

facility

developments

ment of municipal recreation areas and facilities since
the end of the second World War. Plans for improve—
ments which had been long delayed have been finally
realized in some cities; in others, bond issues have made
possible valuable additions to the recreation plant. The
examples of recently-constructed recreation facilities and
structures described in the following pages include an
outdoor skating rink, outdoor children’s theatre, tennis
center, band shell, recreation building and field house
with an indoor skating rink. (See January 1951 issue of
RECREATION for description of indoor-outdoor swim-
ming pool.) They illustrate the diversity of recreation
opportunities that are being increasingly provided by
recreation authorities.

Temporarily, the initiation of the construction of rec-
reation facilities, buildings and structures has been for-
bidden by Order M4, issued by the National Produc-
tion Authority. Exceptions have already been granted,
however, and the authority has indicated that consid-
eration will be given to individual projects based upon
hardship considerations or relationship to the national
defense program. The preparation of criteria and pro-
cedures for considering such projects is now in progress.

Proposals for expanding local park and recreation sys-
tems have been temporarily held up in many cities be-
cause of the defense situation, in spite of the fact that
funds for construction are available. Nevertheless, the
cities that have well-developed, detailed plans will be in a
position to act quickly when the present ban on building
is lifted. Recreation areas and facilities will continue to

be described in RECREATION for the guidance and in-
538

SIGNIFICANT PROGRESS has been made in the develop-

Crove Recreation Center, Berkeley, California

formation of authorities who are preparing' for the day
when construction again is permitted.

Memorial Skating Rink and Playground

The completion of the Wollman Memorial Recreation
Center in Central Park adds a long-awaited and unique
feature to the extensive New York City park system, one
not duplicated in any other public park. It is welcomed
by thousands of New Yorkers who have been deprived
of the pleasure of regular, uninterrupted outdoor ice skat-
ing throughout the winter because of the vagaries of the
city climate. During the late spring, summer and early
fall, this center will afford additional needed recreation
space for children and adults—for roller skating, dancing,
concerts and active play.

Located on the east side of Central Park, near the
southern boundary at the rear of the 200, the memorial
is constructed in a natural, depressed amphitheatre, and
reclaims a swampy waste area for public recreation. It
consists of a large, outdoor artificial ice skating rink, a
recreation building and a children’s playground.

The outdoor rink, which covers 28,000 square feet or
three-quarters of an acre, will provide ice skating from
mid-October to April under all weather conditions. Six-
teen miles of 1%-inch wrought iron pipe have been in
stalled in the refrigerating system of the rink. A board-
walk surrounding the ice area is lined with wooden
benches for the convenience of the skaters. The rink area
is enclosed by a high fence of wire mesh. A public ad-
dress system furnishes facilities for announcements,
music and various entertainment features.

A semi-circular building at the northerly end houses

RECREATION

refrigeration equipment, dressing rooms, a small res-
taurant where food may be bought at reasonable prices,
a skate shop and other incidental facilities. The roof of
the building will be used as a children’s playground
equipped with swings, seesaws, sand pit and shower
basin. Concrete bleachers for 675 spectators stand out-
side the fence along the western side of the rink.

This two-acre recreation center was made possible
by a $600,000 gift to the city in the spring of 1949 by
Miss Kate Wollman, in memory of her parents and her
brothers. The Mayor and the Board of Estimate ac-
cepted the gift and added $200,000 of city funds to adapt
the facility to the surrounding landscape and walks. The
memorial was dedicated with appropriate ceremonies on
December 21, 1950.

The center is open to the public each day from eight-
.thirty a.m. until midnight, except for brief periods re-
quired for reconditioning the ice. General skating is per-
mitted most of the time, but periods are scheduled for
figure skating and dance sessions, speed skating and in-
dividual fancy skating. Children can use the rink morn-
ings without charge, on Saturdays and during school va-

cations, except Sundays; at other times, the fee for gen-"

eral skating is nine cents. General skating for adults
costs fifty cents, including tax, mornings and evenings;
twenty-five cents during the afternoons.

 “it: . n- _ g.

 4...! split: 5445‘.

New Wollman Memorial Recreation Center in Central Park,
New York, offers a variety of recreation activities for all ages.

Outdoor Children’s Theatre

Another dream has come true—insofar as the children
of Oakland and the city recreation department are con-
cerned. A new outdoor theatre for Oakland’s boys and
girls, six to fourteen years of age, eSpecially designed
for their creative dramatic plays, has been constructed
in a wooded glen in the Mosswood Park area. The site
selected is a small canyonlike spot, heretofore unimproved
and actually an abandoned gully in back of the park
tennis courts. The local park department is cooperating

 

in maintaining this area in its natural woodland setting
and has planted small redwoods along one bank.

An eight-by-thirty-foot stage spans the shallow creek
bed, permitting a natural stage background of trees and
shrubs. Tiers of seats, made from salvaged lumber, have
been erected up the side of the glen in an amphitheatre
pattern, surrounding two large trees. Seats have been
painted muted tones of yellow, apricot, turquoise and
pink—the colors denoting seating areas for the different
age groups. To add to the woodsy atmosphere, a hole has
been cut in the stage floor to permit a tree to continue
growing right up through the platform. This will be a
useful pr0p for the children’s make-believe acting ven-
tures. Along each side of the stage are large, pie-shaped,
built-in storage cabinets. The theatre accommodates up
to five hundred youngsters at a performance.

The need for a theatre exclusively for children has
long been felt here. The already existing Greek theatre
in Mosswood Park was designed, and reserved, for pag-
eants and adult activities such as band concerts, com-
munity campfires, county picnics and reunions. For some
years, a children’s Garden Theatre was operated in the
park by the Oakland Recreation Department, but this
rather old structure was torn down during the remodel-
ing of the park two years ago.

Credit for discovering this “just right” spot for the
children’s own theatre goes to Mrs. Albritton, drama
specialist for the department, who says: “For children
to have their own dramatic play theatre and center,
where they can bring to life the beloved characters of
make-believe, of legend and history, is truly a civic
achievement.”

The-recreation department does not attempt to give
professional productions, but rather to give children a

'creative, dramatic experience in interpreting and watch-

ing children’s plays.
The muted colors of the theatre were especially se-

In Oakland’s outdoor children’s theatre, tiers of seats are ar-
ranged amphitheatre pattern in glen, surround two large trees.

 

lected to make the setting as colorful and appealing as
possible without detracting from the performances or dis-
tracting the children. A colored pennant flies from atop
a flagpole each day the theatre is Open, as is done in
the old English theatre.

Opening day was set for Thursday, June 22, 1950, at
two p.111., when a play based upon the Pied Piper theme
was given by children from one of the municipal recrea-
tion centers. Since that day, dramatic groups from three
or four playgrounds at a time have presented ten-to-
fifteen-minute scenes or plays, with a full afternoon’s
performance lasting not more than forty minutes. Par-
ents bringing their small children are made welcome at
the performances.

A large library of light classical recordings affords
background music and overtures for the juvenile plays.
Costumes are borrowed from the recreation department’s
costume workshop, which maintains a ten-thousand-cos-
tume wardrobe as a service to community and educa-
tional organizations, and for its own varied projects.

More than fifty groups of youngsters taking part in
creative dramatic play throughout the city appeared in
their own plays in the new theatre during last summer.
This program is under the supervision of Mrs. Rachael
Dustin, district supervisor, and Miss Carol Pulcifer,
general supervisor, and is part of the dynamic recrea-
tion program being promoted by the Oakland Recreation
Department.

A New Tennis Center

A triangular piece of property in Austin, Texas, once
a field of weeds, has become the tennis player’s heaven.
This three-acre area has been named the Caswell Tennis
Center in honor of W. T. Caswell, chairman of the city’s
park and recreation board, who was largely responsible
for the project.

The center is comprised of six tennis courts, built of
three .parts limestone and one of red clay, affording
fast-drying and excellent play surfaces. A modernistic
shelter house and grandstand seating two hundred serve
the comfort and convenience of players and spectators.
The rooms having showers and dressing facilities are un-
derneath the spectators’ stand. The center was built at a
cost of fifty thousand dollars, the larger portion of which
was donated by Mr. Caswell, and is operated by the Aus-
tin Recreation Department.

The National Intercollegiate Tennis Championships
were held here in 1949 and 1950 and several other local
and state tournaments were conducted at the center dur-
ing the latter year.

To become a member of the Caswell Tennis Center, an
individual must pay in advance for one of the following
types of memberships:

Senior yearly $25.00
Senior six months . 16.00
Senior nine months (University) 2.0.00
Senior three months (University—Summer) 10.00

540

 

Courts three parts limestone, one part red clay, provide fast-drying
excellent play surfaces. Grandstand seats two hundred spectators.

$10.00

Junior summer . . . . . . 4.00

Junior yearly . .

University memberships are available to full-time stu-
dents only. A player is eligible for junior membership
until he graduates from high school. All non-members
must pay thirty cents an hour, per person, for the use of
the courts. A fee of $2.50 per year is charged for locker
space in the shelter house.

Band Shell

A new band shell, named in honor of Jerome H.
Remick, who implemented symphonic music in Detroit,
and erected on Belle Isle, Detroit’s famous island park,
was dedicated on July 13, 1950.

The shell, of reinforced concrete, was constructed on
level ground with its stage about six feet above ground
level. Its dimensions are ninety-five feet in width by
thirty-two feet in depth. The stage itself is sixty-four
feet by thirty-two feet and provides seats for eighty
musicians. The cantilever sounding board rises to a
height of thirty-five feet from the ground and measures
forty feet along its side. At the rear of the stage, a
one-story structure contains a library for music scores,
assembly room, director’s office, storage room, lockers
and washroom, a control room for stage lights and a
public address system.

The sounding board involves the use of a new principle
of acoustics which projects the music in equal volume
to all sections of the audience. In addition, curvature
of the board’s surface makes it possible for each player
to hear the rest of the orchestra better than is usually
the case. This promotes improved performances by
the musicians. Plywood is used for this curved surface.
Amplification is necessary for audiences of over ten
thousand persons and an amplification system has been
installed in a steel tower erected at one side of the stage.
The present seating capacity of the music area is eleven
thousand, but this can be enlarged to fifteen thousand by

the erection of bleachers at the rear.
Concealed lights have been installed between the curved

RECREATION

units of thc sounding board and at its base, and lights
in front of the stage can be used when needed.

The total cost of the band shell was $160,000. Plans

and blueprints were prepared by the Engineering De-
partment with the cooperation of experts in the Park
and Recreation Commission—which is responsible for
the operation and maintenance of the structure.

Recreation Building

On September 11, 1950, a new $75,000 recreation
building was dedicated, with appropriate ceremonies, by
the Berkeley Recreation Commission. The building, ap-
proximately 10,000 square feet, contains a gymnasium
sixty-by-ninety-six feet; locker and shower rooms and toi-
let facilities for men and women and special toilet facili-
ties for pre-school children; two classrooms for pre-school
children; three club rooms with a snack bar in one of
them; oflices for the community center director and the
school director, with storage space for recreation equip-
ment and children’s school supplies. The rooms are well-
heated and lighted, attractively painted and decorated
in a light, modern style which is easy on the eyes:

Indoor equipment includes folding bleachers, seating
240 people, against the south wall of the gymnasium,
chairs to seat two hundred, basketball backstops, gym
mats, punching bag stand, table tennis, folding chairs
for dinner parties, a snack bar with gas range, sink,
tables, chairs and juke box. The club rooms, with attrac-
tive window drapes, are equipped with donated piano and
other furniture.

The Grove Recreation Center represents a cooperative
project involving both the city and schools working
with the recreation commission. A special committee
selected from the city council, school board and recre-
ation commission worked out the plan by which the
schools furnished the site and the city financed the con-
struction. Both will use the building which is being oper-
ated by the recreation commission. The school property
upon which the building is located is leased by the city
at one dollar a year. The cost of the building, including
contractor’s bid and extras, architect’s fees and equip-
ment amounted to seventy-five thousand dollars.

The field house at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in
Troy, New York, is not municipally owned, but is de-
voted to furthering the educational, cultural and recrea-
tional needs of the entire area. Insofar as the institute’s
own needs permit, the building is open for the use of
colleges and schools, charitable and civic organizations,
as well as to the general public.

Its central feature is the artificial ice hockey rink,
185 by 85 feet in size, with eight and one-half miles
of wrought iron pipe imbedded in its concrete floor. In
two hours’ time, the rink can be covered with a remov-
able hardwood floor and completely equipped for basket-
ball play. The permanent concrete stands on either side
of the rink seat four thousand persons: Temporary stands
can be placed at one end to take care of 1,500 more,
making a maximum seating capacity lof 5,500 for all

MARCH 1951

 

'IIL"‘_

Detroit bandshell sounding board involves a new principle of
acoustics, projects sound in equal volume to all audience sections.

sports events. An additional 2,500 can be seated on the
playing floor for concerts, lectures and similar events.

The entire building, brilliantly lighted and effectively
heated, is equipped with modern public address and
score recording equipment. Under the grandstands are
team rooms, dressing rooms, toilets, storage space, offices
and refreshment centers. The west end is equipped with
a permanent hardwood floor 85 by 200 feet, serving as
four practice basketball courts. An acoustical shell, simi-
lar to that at Tanglewood in Lenox, Massachusetts, is
installed in the east end of the building.

The finished building is the center for RPI winter
indoor sports and student activities, dances, symphony
concerts, ice hockey games, expositions and other large
community gatherings. It also is becoming an integral
part of the cultural and social life in this area.

The field house, which was first used in October 1949,
was originally a navy warehouse in Rhode Island. Since
obtaining the structure through the Federal Emergency
Educational Facilities Program, the institute has spent
over a half million dollars in constructing the grand-
stands and the facilities beneath them, installing the
artificial freezing unit, purchasing the basketball floor
and facilities, providing the lighting and heating sys-
tems and in making other adaptations to its present uses.

541

Jean and Jess Ogden

Do you really lack leaders . . .

Some Observations 071

Community Leaders/31p

‘WE LACK LEADERS in this commu-
nity.”

“We have so few leaders and they
are all overworked.”

“He did it for seven years. Then he
resigned because he thought that he
hadidone his share. When you lose the
leader, you lose the program.”

“Everything depends upon the
leader.”

“It is an underprivileged commu-
nity; it has no leaders. How can it
be expected to help itself?”

As one discusses community devel-
opment with citizens of one commu-
nity after another, statements like
those quoted above occur with dis-
heartening frequency. A person begins
a sentence in a sad voice: “Oh, yes,
our community needs everything, but
. . . ” You can join in on the refrain
with unerring accuracy: “We have no
leadgrs.”

The Other Side of the Picture

But now and again one finds an-
other kind of community. We spent a
long day recently in a small city of
about ten thousand pe0ple. Our inter-
est was in several community programs
under way there. Everyone with whom
we talked was enthusiastic and could
tell not only about what was happen-
ing, but also why and how..More than
that, each person named several others
who must be seen. And they did not
all name the same individuals. After
talking with about twenty-five citizens,
we left with a long list of others whom
they considered important to their
community development program. We
left, too, with the definite impression
that here was a growing community
with vital and widespreadJeadership.

542

This was true, in spite of the fact that
in 'the late thirties this same commu-
nity “was in the doldrums”; even the
best among its leaders, according to
local report, “were unwilling to stick
their necks out.”

A Scientific Approach

In another area which had grown
rapidly and had many newcomers,
citizens deplored the lack of leadership
for their youth organizations. But they
did more than deplore. A few of them
decided to find out whether they really
lacked leaders. They organized survey
teams, using youths as well as inter-
ested adults. These teams rang door-
bells and catalogued the leadership re-
sources of their town. They found
more able and willing leadership than
currently-existing agencies could use.

From a rural county comes the state-
ment: “There’s no lack of leaders in
this community. Our problem is to
hold back long enough to plan where
we’re going so that we won’t tramp
each other down! That’s why we need
to have some meetingsto discuss our
needs and our resources and to do
some planning together. Once we have
the plans, things will get done easily
enough.” '

Leadership Has Replaced Leaders

These last three communities are
no more fortunate in the quality of
their citizens than the places which
“lack leaders.” They are different be-
cause at some point somebody (or
somebodies) decided that it was time
to take a look at the community and
its pe0ple in an objective way. Com-
munity patterns and attitudes fre-
quently undergo a change-when this

 

happens. When it is the style not “to
stick one’s neck out,” nothing hap-
pens until the style is changed. And it
can be changed when enough citizens
get together and decide to stick out
so many necks at once that the would-
be-loppers-off-of—heads are unequal to
the situation. Such a community does
not depend upon a leader or a few
leaders who may become martyrs. It
develops widespread leadership from
the potential leaders who are already
there. The community iniwhich lead-
ership has replaced leaders is in a
pretty healthy state of development.

Leadership Not Limited

Leadership potentials exist in every
community—~privileged or underprivi-
leged. Most leaders, however, do not
spring full-blown into community ac-
tivities. They must be sought out and
given jobs to do in which they feel
competent. They must be helped to
grow in competence. They must feel
an essential part of the scheme of
things. They must care enough about
the thing they set out to do so that
they will forget about shyness and
feelings of inadequacy. .

In a rural school community, which
might be classed as underprivileged,
the PTA did not flourish. A few faith-
ful members came regularly. But, in
the words of the newly-elected presi-
dent, they were the people who were
least in need of belonging. They.were
from the few “privileged” families of
the community and belonged to many
organizations. The president was con-

REPRINTED FROM Extension Division
Bulletin of the University of Virginia,
New Dominion Series, March 1950.

RECREATION

cerned about the families of the nu-
merous tenants who were here one
year and gone the next. Their children
were in the school; the parents should
be in the PTA.

Early in the school year, plans were
made for a Halloween party. The
president made it her first business to
find something special to ask each par-
ent to do. She found out from those
she knew what they could do and,
from friends, she learned the capabili-
ties of others. Then she and the school
principal wrote a personal letter to
each parent who was not a PTA mem-
her. The letter was an invitation to
assume a leadership role at the party.
Further importance was given the in-
vitation by having it go by mail rather
than having the children take it home.

In some cases, the task assigned was
as simple as sitting in the second row
from the front on the left side to see
that the people in the two front rows
were comfortable and had become ac-
quainted. In other cases, a mother was
asked to spend fifteen minutes in help-
ing to care for babies and small chil-
dren for whom a room and supervision
were provided. '

Almost everyone came to the party,
and everyone who came took her re-
sponsibility seriously. The president
and the principal had worked with the
' “faithful few” so that they accepted
their job of making people feel that
they belonged. The result was that
the party was not the only event to
which these people came. They con-
tinued to come to PTA meetings and
began to talk about the needs of their
community.

That community now has an active
council that is making it a better place
in which to live and to bring up a
family. The council has wideSpread
leadership drawn from the “under-
privileged,” as well as from the more
“privileged,” group. The patient,
painstaking work of the PTA presi-
dent has paid dividends.

People Have Different Abilities

The importance of the personal con-
tact and personalized appeal cannot
be overestimated. When Dr. Bond be-
gan his work in Hickory Nut Valley
(New Dominion Series, No. 109), he
knew that he could take care of the

MARCH 1951

scattered population only if he had a
small hospital and could educate the
pe0ple to come to it. He knew, more-
over, that Lhey would come to their
own hospital more readily than to his.
The job of getting the hospital could,
at the same time, serve to make the
people realize its importance to them.

There are about twenty sections i”
the area that might be thought of,
roughly, as communities. People liv-
ing in these parts know each other and
have some activities in common. As
the doctor traveled about, he observed
the “natural leaders.” He made their
acquaintance. He took his time. It was
during his second year that he invited
a “leader” he had discovered from
each section to meet with him to plan
the clinic. They were not educated
men; some even were illiterate. But
they all were men who had the re-
spect and confidence of their neigh-
bors. They knew how to use what re-
sources were available. They were
able to muster the resources of their
neighborhoods to make the Valley
Clinic and Hospital a reality.

When the building program was
finished, some of them resigned from
the board of trustees. They had known
about getting materials and the build-
ing, but felt that there were others
who could be of more help in “run-
ning a hospital.” In this matter they
demonstrated a principle of good com-
munity leadership of which they had
never heard and probably would not
have recognized if they had—the prin-
ciple of alternating leadership and fol-
lowership. Very few individuals are
equipped to lead in all phases of com-
munity living. Fewer still are un-
equipped to lead in any.

Rotating Leadership

The Bricks Rural Life School in
North Carolina has used the idea of
rotating leadership wisely and eHec-
tively. When the farmers’ club meets
in early Spring to consider the corn
planting which is just ahead, the
leader is not an agriculture teacher but
a farmer who has had success with
his corn. At another meeting on dairy
cows, another farmer will lead in his
field of successful endeavor. The wom-
en’s club works in the same way. The
leader, says the director of the school.

will learn all that he can about the
subject because he must teach it. The
others will learn “in the hope of be-
ing able to trip him up.” The impor-
tant result, however, from this kind
of leadership practice and training is
that persons who participate in the
clubs become centers of “radiation” in
their own neighborhoods. They become
community leaders.

Are These People Leaders?

About this point in the discussion,
our skeptical Southside friend would
be saying: “But I don’t consider that
the people about whom you’re talking
are leaders.” Certainly the idea of
widespread and alternating leadership
is a far cry from the noblesse oblige
leadership which has had its finest
flowering in the South. That philoso-
phy, perhaps, served well at one time.
But the increased speed of social
change has brought new complexities
and confusions. We no longer deal
with simple face-to-face situations. The
trouble now, as someone has pointed
out, is that noblesse has too many
obliges. As a result, in communities
that cling to the old leadership pat-
tern, we have a few tired people head-
ing e v e r y organization and e v e r y
drive. They bear names that have al-
ways headed afiairs in the county——
the names of the “leading” families.
The community will not move without
them. It frequently cannot move with
them. They are too overloaded with
the burden of being “leaders.” They
are willing enough and often able
enough—but they are spread too thin.
They head but do not lead.

Growing, vital communities are the
way they are because they have found
(or been found by!) a new type of
leader. He may be a professional
worker or he may be a citizen work-
ing at his job of citizenship in a de-
mocracy. He is the type of leader who
is geared to changes rather than to the
old patterns. He is interested in help-
ing to guide social change but not in
controlling it. He is a continuously
growing person. He is increasingly
able to see new relationships in the
light of new facts and new under-
standings of this ever-changing world.
He is dedicated to the, job-at-hand;
his satisfaction comes from getting the

5—13

job done, rather than from being
pointed to as the one who did the 01).
He measures his own stature as a
leader by the number of new leaders
he discovers and develops, rather than
by the extent of his own following.
He develops lieutenants rather than
evangelists. He has faith in the ability
of every mature adult to ordain his
own destiny. He trusts the democratic
process.

Leadership Exists; So What?

We have said that there is no lack
of the raw material of leadership. If
it were not so, the outlook for democ-
racy would be grim indeed. Three
questions, then, remain: How do we
find the potential leaders? How do we
help them to develop? Who are the
“we” whose responsibility it is to find
and develop widespread leadership?

How Do We Find Leaders?

We can find them only by sincerely
searching them out. A direct question
about community leaders brings out
information about the official or the
recognized “prestige” leaders. The rec-
ognized leader (professional worker,
president of the PTA or civic club) is
frequently too busy leading to discover
new leadership among his followers.
Hence, even the questioning of these
leaders will bring meager results.

Perhaps the questioning of the
smart politician would yield results,
for he knows whose opinion is im-
portant to his neighbor. Upon such
knowledge he depends for building his
following. He knows of, and uses, the
natural leadership in his district,
whether or not he uses the term
“leaders” to designate such persons.

Sharp observation, personal con-
tacts and patience are essential to
broadening the base of leadership. In
Hickory Nut Valley, Dr. Bond took
more than a year to find the men
whose influence would carry their
neighbors along. Dr. Mildred Morgan,
in developing the family life program
in Asheville, did a full year of “leg
work” to find one hundred leaders
who, in turn, helped her to find po-
tential leaders in every agency inter-
ested in family life. (New Dominion
Series, No. 104-.) How do we find
them? By looking for them and under-
standing their importance.

544

Help Them to Develop?

First we forget completely the it’s-
easier-to—do-it-myself attitude. Perhaps
it is, but, in the long run, the more
difficult task of enlisting the aid of
many has infinitely more far-reaching
results. Again, patience and sensitivity
are essential to the job. Find where
the new leader’s strengths lie and give
him a chance to use them. Many de-
vices for training leaders are being
used by organizations—the co-chair-
man, the apprentice, the protege. Some
prestige leaders are trying to find ways
of “lending” their prestige until the
new leader becomes established. In a
Southside tradition-bound community,
the chairman of each of four commit-
tees agreed to take as co-chairman a
capable young person to whom he
would gradually shift the- responsi-
bility as he became accepted by the
community. One of these chairmen was
able to carry through. She demon-
strated that it can be done.

The importance of the acceptability
of a leader cannot be ignored and
should not be. It must be recognized
and built upon. At the Virginia Adult
Education Conference last summer,
Dr. Carl C. Taylor of the United States
Department of Agriculture summed up
this phase of leadership about as fol-
lows: “A leader must have a knowledge
of processes and procedures. But these
alone will not assure success. He must,
above everything else, be persona
grata. Find those potential leaders
whom people trust and follow, then
train them. We cannot begin at the

other end. Even the leader from the
outside may win acceptability. In fact,
he must win it if he is to be effective.”

Who Are the “We”?

And who are the “we” who have the
responsibility for finding and develop-
ing leadership? The “we” includes ev-
ery citizen who truly believes in de-
mocracy as a good way of life. Basic
to that concept is widespread partici-
pation in, and understanding of, those
matters that affect our lives for good
or ill. In a democracy everyone is im-
portant; and everyone, to the degree
of which he is capable and in'his
sphere of influence, must be ready and
able to assume alternating roles of
leadership and followership.

No, we do not lack leadership in
our communities. But each of us must
be eternally vigilant lest our commu-
nities fail to recognize their potential
leadership and continue to deplore the
lack of leaders.

“0f the best leaders
The people only know that they

exist; 6
The next best they love and praise;
The next they fear;
And the next they revile.
When they do not command the peo-
ple’s faith,
Some will lose faith in them.
And then they resort to recrimina-
tionsl
But of the best when their task is ac-
complished, their work done,
The people all remark, ‘We have done
it ourselves.’ ”

Home-Made Easter Egg Hunt

A “different” sort of egg hunt for Easter

parties for young children is suggested in
The School Game Book, by Margaret E.

Mulac and Marion S. Holmes, published by
Harper and Brothers, New York. This can
well be used outside the classroom. Have
the children who come to the party cut out
Easter eggs from colored paper. These
should be about one-and-a-quarter inches
long and three-quarters of an inch wide and
should be made from red, purple, yellow,
blue and green paper. Also have them cut
out rabbits, about one-and-one-half inches
tall, from white paper.

When the children are out of the room,
hide the Easter symbols in plain sight.
Upon their return, divide them into teams
and, on the signal “go,” give each team a

turn to hunt for the eggs for one minute.

When all the players have had a turn, let
each child sort his eggs into color groups
and keep his bunnies separate. These are
collected by each captain and counted.

Scoring (announced after eggs are col-
lected) : each egg, red, three points; yellow,
two points; blue, five points; green, four
points; bunnies, three points; purple eggs
are bad and take points (one for each egg)
away from the total score.

After completing the hunt, distribute
candy Easter eggs and jelly beans, placed
in previously-prepared Easter baskets. Milk
may be served in paper cups and can be-
come “Easter milk” by adding a few drops
of vegetable coloring. Cookies can be egg or
rabbit-shaped or decorated with colored icing.

RECREATION

George-Anna Carter

public opinion survey

in Louisville

OUISVILLE, Kentucky, the city on the
L southern shores Of the Ohio River
and nationally famous as the gateway
to the South, also is gaining a na-
tional reputation as one Of the nation’s
most progressive cities. Mayor Charles
P. Farnsley, with the cooperation Of
T. Byrne Morgan, director of parks,
and William A- Moore, superintendent
of recreation, has done a commendable
job of educating citizens along recre-
ation lines.

Proof that they were awakening to
the fact that playgrounds were a ne-
cessity and not an extra frill was
shown statistically in the Elmo Roper
Survey instigated by the Mayor in
1948. The purpose of the inquiry was
to determine public Opinion concern-
ing taxation and to discover what
civic improvements were most desired.
Questions on how well the public felt
that certain civic functions were being
performed were also included.

Results Of the survey showed that
next tO a demand for the improvement
Of faulty road conditions, the most fer-
vent desire was for an increase in the
number of parks and playgrounds. The
question concerning provision of rec-
reation Opportunities squarely faced
the issue, as follows: “DO you think
your city government is doing as good
a job as it can, under the circum-
stances, in providing recreational Op-
portunities like parks and playgrounds
where children can play safely, or do
you think that it should be doing a
much better job?”

Responses to this question were
analyzed according to sex, economic
level, district and political party. Of
the males interviewed, 37.6 per cent
thought that the city government was
doing as well as it could; 53.0 per cent

MARCH 1951

thought that it should do better; 9.4
per cent didn’t know and gave no an-
swer. Of the women interviewed, 33.8
per cent thought that the city govern-
ment was doing as well as it could;
53.4 per cent thought that it should do
better; and 12.8 per cent didn’t know
and didn’t answer.

As in previous surveys made in the
Louisville area by the Roper organiza-
tion, 1,013 persons were interviewed
between April 27 and May 5, 1948. In
order to insure an accurate cross-sec-
tion, a certain number Of interviews
were assigned to each of ten separate
districts. These interviews were dis-
tributed according to the population
residing in those districts and, within
each district, quotas were assigned ac-
cording to the sex, age and race dis-
tribution shown by the 1940 census.

Interviewers moved diagonally across
each district, working from the north-
west corner to the southeast corner,
calling at every third house until they
had filled their quotas. Only peOple
who resided in the dwelling units vis-
ited by the interviewers were regarded
as respondents. NO call-backs were
made to find people not at home on the
first call; instead, the interviewers fol-
lowed a prescribed system of substi-
tuting a second dwelling unit in place
of the first when no eligible respondent
was found.

The survey showed that, according
to economic level, fifty per cent of
those in the two highest income brack-
ets believed that city recreation Oppor-
tunities were adequate; while Of those
in the lowest income bracket, only 30.5
per cent were satisfied with conditions.
Of those in the middle income bracket,
36.5 per cent felt that conditions were
as good as they could be. This shows,

 

beyond a doubt, the increased need
for recreational opportunities for fam-
ilies Of the middle and lower income
groups.

When surveyed according to dis-
tricts, the facts again repeated them-
selves. Those in areas where most
residents were in the middle and lower
income brackets felt that conditions
were not as good as they might be.
In the uncongested areas, such as
Crescent Hill and the Highlands, 50.8
per cent felt that recreation conditions
were adequate. But in all districts,
whether of a high or low income
group, close to fifty per cent believed
that recreation conditions could be
better.

In the analysis according to political
party, 37.6 per cent of the Democrats
thought that conditions were as good
as they could be, along with 32.4 per
cent of the Republicans and 38.8 per
cent of the Independents. In all three
groups, over fifty per cent believed
that conditions could be better.

Interviewees were given a list of
civic projects from which tO choose
those they would most like to see ac-
complished. As mentioned before, the
public preferred, next tO the improve-
ment of city streets, an increase in the
number of parks and playgrounds.
Thus the ROper survey helped tO “feel
out” public Opinion two years before
the bond issue for city improvements,
costing $13,350,000, and including
$1,500,000 for the city parks and rec-
reation program, was passed on No-

vember 7, 1950.

'v- ‘—

 

Mrss GEORGE-ANNA CARTER is publicity
supervisor in the Recreation Division,
Department of Public Parks and Recre-
ation, Louisville, Kentucky.

545

Ruth Radir

A New Camp F0“ ’I‘IIE IIANBICAPPEIJ

a cooperative
venture of college

departments and state agencies

AST SUMMER, new in the state of

Washington, was a camp for handi-
capped and other teen-age boys and
girls. At beautiful McDonald Point on
Lake‘ Coeur d’Alene, in a wilderness
reached only by boat, these youngsters
had a chance to rough it and have all
the fun of outdoor living. For three
weeks they worked on camp construca
tion projects, learned at first hand
about our natural resources, developed
skills in handcrafts, planned and led
campfire programs.

Sponsored by the Agricultural Ex-
tension Service of the State College of
Washington, in cooperation with the
Washington Society for Crippled Chil-
dren and Adults, this new venture was
financed, in part, by Easter seal funds
and by funds, personnel and equip-
ment provided by the college. Roger
Larson, physiotherapist of the physical
education faculty, was administrative
director. Ruth Radir directed the pre-
paratory workshop for teachers and
served as program director in camp.

Counsellors Plan the Camp

Counsellors were teachers from all
parts of the state who enrolled for
credit in the workshop in camping,
which was a regular part of the sum-
mer session and administered by the
School of Education. In five weeks on
the campus, the group decided what
they really hoped to do for the crip-
pled children, planned the camp pro-
gram and became a working team,
ready to make this pioneer venture a
new experience. They decided that
the main purpose of the camp would be

AUTHOR is an extension 4-H Club spe-
cialist in the State of Washington.

546

to contribute to the growth of boys
and girls through democratic living
out-of-doors, under guidance. One of
the teachers, herself a cerebral palsy
case, was invaluable in helping to pre-
pare the others for their work with

the handicapped.

The State Game and State Forestry
Departments and the Eastern Wash-
ington Historical Society cooperated
in helping teachers to understand the
natural resources of the Coeur d’Alene
region. The director of student coun-
selling, the geology, art and industrial
arts departments and the college li-
brary gave instruction and special fa-
cilities to the group. Campfire and 4-H
clubs made possible a field trip which
helped teachers in understanding camp
problems and Opportunities. Through
the efforts of service clubs, welfare
agencies, county health workers and
county agents, handicapped boys and
girls were enrolled from all parts of
eastern Washington.

The Campers

Since this was not a treatment camp,
it was felt important for social growth
to have “normal,” as well as physically-
handicapped, youngsters. Ten of the
twenty-three boys and seventeen girls
who came to camp were free from
crippling conditions. Only four of the
whole group had ever camped previ-
ously. Thirteen were cerebral palsy
cases; others were post-polio and post-
operative cases of various types. All
were ambulatory and were acceptable
in the schools.

With boys and girls who had none
of the traditions and program of some
kind of club work to bind them to-
gether and no previous association

 

such as school camping affords, the
big job in camp was to develop a
group spirit. During the first evening
around the campfire, not more than
ten joined in the singing. 0n the day
we left camp, the boatman reported
that each boatload had sung all the
way across the lake. Counsellors and
directors, through examples and ways
of working, emphasized helping each
other. If Camp Manitowish was char-
acterized primarily by one thing, it
was by this spirit of helpfulness.

F aided W to hop down to the beach

to swim. A was always willing to go
to the cabin for M’s jacket or to serve
her plate at the table. Almost never
were quarrelsome or angry voices
heard. Nearly any hour of the day, as
we listened to judge how things were
going, around the crafts tent could be
heard the happy hum of boys and girls
contentedly at work.

Enthusiastic reports from parents
tell us that the friendliness and accept-
ance of their children meant a great
deal. “She did gain confidence and
more, felt that she was wanted and in-
cluded in things,” writes one mother.
She adds: “T does seem to fit in better
and take more interest in her work.”
Another says of her daughter, who is
a cerebral palsy case, “It is just an-
other step in her life to help put her

‘on an equal footing with her friends

here at home.” A father thanks us for
showing his son the most wonderful
time he ever had. “It meant a great
deal,” he adds, “just to have the boys
and girls act friendly toward him.”

The Program

Accent in camp was upon the indi-
vidual growth and development of

RECREATION

boys and girls under guidance. The
only regularly-scheduled activities
were meals, rest hour and swim peri-
ods. Those who were slow in dressing,
walking or speaking were thus free
from the pressures of a rigid program.
Counsellors and their groups planned
their activities for the next day.
Planning was as much a part of the
program as campfires or swimming.
As boys and girls set up their own
goals and moved, each at his own
pace, to complete what they had under-
taken, there was a lovely relaxed feel-
ing in camp. Freedom of choice re-
sulted in the campers’ adapting activi-
ties to their own individual ability.
When opportunities arose, this sim-
ple schedule was interrupted. One day
the log boom came slowly past camp,
taking three days for its thirty-three
mile trip from the south to the north
end of the lake. All the boys and girls
were ferried out to the tugboat in the
outboard motor boat. There the cap-
tain told them about the source of the
timber, how the logs were fastened in
the boom and about the fuel used for
the trip. Most thrilling, perhaps, was
the sight of the boom-men walking the
cable from the tug to the boom.
Our own wood supply consisted of
tamarack logs floated across the bay.
These were sawed on the beach into
. firewood lengths and then we would

Accent was placed upOn individual growth
and deveIOpment. Arts and crafts were pOpu-
lar activities, but no regular pragram sched-
ule was set. Thus children slow in dressing
or in walking were freed from pressure.

have a “log-rolling” contest. Every-
one, even the smallest and the most se-
verely handicapped, rolled one or more
logs up the long walk to the dining
hall. Some pushed as many as eight.
All contributed in some such way to
the work and to the beautification of
the camp grounds.

Someone found a turtle, so a group
decided to make a “natural” museum,
as they called it. One of the men, with
his boys, began digging to make a
pool for it. A day or so later, two of
the older boys were helping to lay flat
stones. The next day, on their own,
they were mixing concrete, adding col-
oring and pouring it. They found that
the pool did not hold water, so some
of the girls, with their counsellor,
brought buckets of pebbles up from
the lake shore. Boys and girls to-
gether set in stakes and put up a wire
netting. At last the museum was ready
for the turtle; but he promptly dug
himself under the duff since he was a
land turtle. So the pool became tempo-
rary quarters at times for fish.

First Time It Ever Happened

Camp was thrilling because of so
many “firsts.” M, with cerebral palsy,
could stay afloat on an inner tube but
could get to her feet only if helped.
Gripping her counsellor’s arm, 'she
looked up with triumph. “First time I

 

ever went swimming,” she said. G
walked with his weight so far forward
that gravity was always getting the bet-
ter of him. He would look up laughing
from all but the worst tumbles. When
we had a wienie roast, he was helped
to get his wienie onto a stick. “First
time,” he said in his slow and diflicult
speech, “that I ever cooked over a
campfire.” Another boy with cerebral
palsy was elected president of the camp
council. A brilliant boy, he conducted
his first meeting like a veteran. After
it was over, with shining eyes and
speech even more obscure because of
emotion, he said, “First time I ever got
to be a leader.”

Leadership Grows

To develop leadership ability was
one of the goals the teachers had set
up in the workshop. The anecdotal rec-
ords show that we did move in this
direction. N, for the first week in camp,
wandered about showing almost no in-
terest in any of the exciting activities
going on. Self-conscious about his con-
genital foot deformity, he would not
even get into a swimsuit. Elected to the
council by his group, he was against
everything, but always retreated into,
“Oh, it doesn't matter what I think.”
When he showed

some interest in

stunts one day, the council appointed
him leader for the evening and, with

help from one of the staff, he was a
great success. Later he made announce-
ments for the Sunday morning service.
Finally, he had the courage to go
swimming and made considerable
progress.

Then there was H, who came from
a family of twelve living in two rooms
and who had already been in three
different foster homes. She voiced her
own estimate of herself the day she ar-
rived. When her attention was called to
a life-sized papier-mache black sheep
which one of the counsellors had made,
she mumbled, “Then there are two of
us.” “We like our black sheep,” she
was told. Her one interest during the
first few days was fishing; and fish
she did, regardless of efforts to interest
her in something else. 011 the fourth
day of camp, however, H began to
respond to our efforts. She came down
the walk, slippery from rain, with a
sign that she had made during the rest

 

Everyone helps. Here one of the sponsors of the party receives small assist-
ance. Five thousand plastic eggs containing whistles were hidden in park,
waiting to be found by eager youngsters during mid-morning Easter search.

FROM REPORT of the Syracuse Recreation Department, New York.

548

hour. "Do not run on walks,” it said.
She put it up, aided by one of the
boys. Soon she became interested in
handcrafts and made a ring toss game.
She frequently sat at the head of the
table and served, and was a willing
“hopper.” Her choice of costume at
the costume parties revealed her mas-
culine identification. Generous and
kindly to other boys and girls, at; times
she was a difficult cabin mate, shirk-
ing her duties. Yet she did learn to do
a good job as someone worked with
her and gave her recognition.

Roughing It

Each group had a chance to go on
an overnight camping trip. Those un-
able to walk the few miles put on life
preservers and went to the campsite by
rowboat. In preparation, each group
planned with its counsellor what food
to take and the equipment necessary.

All took part in packing food and

dque. For most of the campers, sleep-
ing under the stars and cooking over
a campfire was another “first.” Upon
their return, their adventures were re-
ported at dinner.

An Annual Event

All who visited camp feel sure that
it will be an annual event. The bene-
fits of sunshine and free play in the
water were, in themselves, convincing
of the worth of camp life for the handi-
capped. As a 000perative venture with
state agencies, organizations and vari-
ous departments of the college working
together, it was rewarding to all con-
cerned. As an opportunity for teach-
ers to prepare themselves to work in
the state’s growing school-camping pro-
gram and to understand the handi-
capped, it was unique. Most of all, it
succeeded in providing the handi-
capped with further help on their dif-
ficult road to adjustment.

WHISTLING EGGS
The biggest thing during Easter va-

cation in Syracuse, New York, is the
Easter Monday Egg Hunt, conducted
by the city’s recreation department.
Last year, nearly five thousand young-
sters and a liberal number of adults
converged upon Burnet Park to seek
out hidden eggs and win prizes.

A Syracuse real estate firm spon-
sored the 1950 event, providing some
five thousand shiny whistling Easter
eggs and other awards. Gaily-deco-
rated Easter baskets were given young-
sters who found specially-marked eggs.

Helping the youngsters to have a
good time were members of the Ma-
rine Corps’ Tenth Tank Battalion, vol-
unteer workers, park police and recre-
ation leaders. The basic preparation
of the Burnet Park area for the egg
hunt was done by the Syracuse De-
partment of Parks, assisted by the De-
partment of Public Works.

Even a steady rain failed to dampen
the enthusiasm of the eager young-
sters who started gathering early for
the mid-morning search. The affair
was such a success that it is on its
way to becoming an Easter tradition.

RECREATION

The call of close harmony

The new rage is an old story—or,
rather, an old song! Good old barber-
shop quartet harmony of the Gay Nine-
ties is back again, thanks to the Society
for the Preservation and Encourage-
ment of the Barbershop Quartet Sing-
ing in America, Incorporated.

The traditional barbershop quartet
sprang from the grass roots of Amer-
ica and is going strong again today.
In the days of gaslight and shaving
mugs, it was a sporadic, unorganized
expression of masculine delight in har-
monizing. Today the barbershop quar-
tet movement reaches from coast to
coast. Hundreds of chapters have sprung
up in almost every state and in Canada,
as well. Men in every occupation have
responded to the close harmony call
and find Gay Nineties tonsorial parlor
singing excellent recreation at the end
. of a busy day. It is an ideal hobby for
any man who loves music and who gets
a lift out of being part of a chord.

Quartet harmony is produced by
four voices unaccompanied by an in-
strument. Rules of time and words are
frequently sacrificed to obtain more
blending harmony, but there is usually
at least one harmonizing chord on each

Walter Jay Stephens

melody note—sometimes as many as
five (called “swipes”) occur.

The melody is most often sung by
the lead, with the tenor part (compa-
rable to high alto) sounding above the
lead. Baritone and bass round out the
parts. Although melody notes may be
traded around, the lead usually carries
them. Sometimes he will sing a few
solo notes, with the others joining in
on succeeding chords.

After nationwide contests during
National Music Week, quartet winners
have competed for high honors in the
big Anniversary International Quartet
Contest, the five top winners usually
broadcasting over a national network
and a Canadian broadcasting system.
The good fellowship and mellow tones
of the SPEBSQSA are b e c 0 min g
known the world over.

This activity of the gaslight era,
with its fine sentiment and charm, is
starred in New York City annually
during June when, under the sponsor-
ship of the park department and the
New York Mirror, the bandstand on
the Mall in Central Park becomes the
biggest little barbershop in the me-
tropolis. An audience of approximately

 

Brooklyn’s Vanderveer Four, winners of the Sixteenth Annual Barber-
shop Quartet Contest held annually in New York City during June.

MARCH 1951

 

General view of stage setting, with Police
Department Band, shows bandstand as the
biggest little barbershOp in the metropolis.

25,000 persons gathers to hear the five
best amateur quartets give the Gay
Nineties songs the once-over-lightly
treatment. Elimination contests are
held the previous week.

At the big event last summer, the
Police Department Band gave instru-
mental versions of songs popular dur-
ing the turn of the century; a sixty-
nian chorus of the Manhattan Chapter
of the SPEBSQSA offered vocal varia-
tions under the direction of J. Baily
Harvey; and; a number of outstanding
guest artists rounded out the fine pro-
gram. In the rig of yesteryear—gray
suits, winged collars, side whiskers and
straw Katy’s—Brooklyn’s Vanderveer
Four became top winners after a
warm, rich rendering of Old Time
Medley and Fuzzy Rag. Their encore
was another old-time medley of some
of America’s great songs.

Following the contest and entertain-
ment, the audience, in a nostalgic
mood, was led by Mr. Harvey in sing-
ing ballads typifying the era “when
you and I were young. Maggie.”

549

 
 

Dr. Grace L. Coyle

  

’l‘l-IE Glllllll’ WIJRKER IN THE IlECliEA’I‘lllN CENTER

AS RECREATION has come to be a rec-
ognized part of the family of com-
munity services, receiving extensive
public and private funds, employing a
considerable body of workers, profes-
sional and volunteer, and established
as a necessary provision of public-
spirited communities, it was inevitable
that workers who are putting their
energy and abilities into making these
programs as effective as possible
should begin to look closely at how it
should be done. The first'result of this
iriterest in the early part of this cen-
tury' was a new emphasis upon recrea-
tion activities. New sports were in-
vented in this period; arts and sciences
were adapted into forms appropriate
to the interests and abilities of ama-
teurs; camping, winter sports and out-
door activities expanded enormously.
The rise of youth-serving agencies,
especially in the decade between 1910
and 1920, meant also the creation by
several organizations of a complex of
such activities into nationally pro-
moted programs. All of this meant that
those who worked at others’ play quite
naturally were focused upon the pre-
paring of recreation workers equipped
with recreation skills to develop the
expanding programs under both pub-
lic and private auspices.

Another strand of thought and effort
began to show itself during the 1920’s
among those employed in recreation
organizations. It became clear that it
was not only the recreation activity
which had significance to those who
came for fun, relaxation or various
kinds of education. We began to see
that of equal, and sometimes of greater,
importance to the participants were

 

AUTHOR is professor of group work in
the School of Applied Social Sciences,
Western Reserve University, Cleveland.

550

the satisfactions they received from
the human relations which ran in and
through the activity. Along with this
came the increasing realization that to
help peOple enjoy themselves, we must
penetrate below the surface of activity
into its meaning for them. Only then
would we make the eXperience more
enjoyable and more valuable to the
community. It is from this latter strand
of thought and effort, and its resulting
conclusions and methods, that there
has developed the approach or set of
methods known as group work.

This same attempt to understand
pe0ple with the help of the new knowl-
edge available in psychology and men-
tal hygiene has also, in this same pe-
riod, been affecting educational meth-
ods in schools. It is modifying the
practice of medicine and medical edu-
cation through the emphasis on psycho-
somatic illness and the better under-
standing of the emotions. It is trans-
forming counselling and other social
services. All of this indicates that a
new kind of “know-how” has come
into being and the application of it
to recreation would, we believe, make
it both more satisfying to peOple and
more valuable to communities.

It has sometimes been said that pub-
.lic recreation dealt in such large num-
bers of people that it could not use
a method whose focus was upon small
groups and upon the individuals in
them. I had heard this many times
from pe0ple in both public and pri-
vate agencies. I will never forget my
surprise the first time that I spent an
afternoon in a public recreation cen-
ter. In one room was a sewing class of
ten girls; in the gym a basketball
game was in progress, with a scatter-
ing of onlookers around the edges; in
a game room twenty or so boys played
table games; the crafts shOp held its

quota of fifteen. As we went from room
to room, I realized how familiar this
looked. Whatever the masses of fig-
ures in statistical reports, here, too.
were small groups of peOple who knew
each other and no doubt came partly
to be together as well as to learn a
skill or play a game. That afternoon
made clear to me what I had su5pected:
that what we know or can learn about
how to make such groups more en-
joyable and more fruitful to the peOple
in them can be used under public, as
well as private, auspices. It doesn’t
matter at this point whofpays the bill;
what matters is who leads the groups.

I have been asked here to try to
state the significance of this develop-
ment of the grOUp work approach for
the field of recreation. Many recrea-

“. . . The dividends of sound rec-

reation lie in citizenship educa-
tion, improved ability to express
one’s self and confidence in pre-
senting views, faith in the demo-
cratic process, education of tastes,
discovery of talents and appetites
for work, joy in associating with
people and an understanding of
human nature.”—G. Ott Romney,
OFF THE JOB LIVING, A. S. Barnes

Company, New York, 1945.

tion workers are already familiar with
it; others, who perhaps do not think
of themselves as group workers, have
used intuitively many of these same
methods. Still others in the field of
recreation regard it perhaps as the
product of a little group of serious
thinkers who talk about familiar situa-
tions with a new lingo and have pro-
duced somewhat hifalutin' notions for
dealing with them. Perhaps the best
way to make clear what group work
means would be to take a concrete

er‘nvn'rrnv

(—

‘ l

situation in which either a public de-
partment or private agency begins to
employ group workcrs. How would
such peOple, if prOperly trained and
competent, approach the job? -At what
would they be aiming? How would
they go about it? How would they
cvaluate their success or failure?

I presume that the first job of any
newly-employed group worker would
be to find out the general characteris-
tics of the area in which he was going
to work. He would want to find out its
nationality and racial make-up, its age
and sex composition, its economic
level, its resources for recreation and
the other community agencies func-
tioning in it. He would do this pri-
marily because such knowledge gives
him clues to what people will want in
the way of recreation, but also because
he will think of himself as one in a co-
operating team of public and private
agencies. He would then be in the
position to ask the first question in re-
gard to the program he was planning
to deveIOp. He would begin by asking:
What are these people likely to want in
the way of recreation? What is needed
to fill in gaps? What is apprOpriate
and familiar to pe0ple of the kind
living here? To find the answers to
these questions, he would not merely
. sit in an office and dream up a sched-
ule of activities on some general pat-
tern, which he would superimpose
upon an area. He would begin to talk
to people, to get their advice if he
could, to observe the things people
already are doing, to consult with
school ofiicials, other agency execu-
tives and perhaps the policeman or the
local political leader. If he is a com-
petent group worker, he will recognize,
of course, that behavior speaks louder
than words. PeOple often cannot tell
exactly what they would like, but they
give evidences by the way they be-
have. The gang of vandals who are
defacing the public school building,
the despondent old people who sit in
the public parks on warm days, the
groups of adolescent girls who frequent
the corner drugstore—all convey their
suggestions to an imaginative worker
as forcefully as the committee that
waits upon him, asking for a basket-
ball league or the women’s club that
loudly requests a millinery class. By

lVIARCII 1951

whatever means he can discover it,
the group worker will aim to begin
his planning by discovering what
people want and he will constantly
check results to see if he has inter-
preted correctly what they say by their
actions as well as by their words.
Having reached a tentative idea of
what the pe0ple want, the group

tools. The group worker is likely to
think always in terms of what kinds
of groups pe0ple may want as well as
what kinds of activities they desire. He
will regard social clubs, interest clubs,
such as choral societies or stamp clubs,
classes and interest groups, teams, rep-
resentative councils and committees all
as tools to be used according to the
desires and needs of the participants.
It is not possible, in this short article,
to point out the different social expe-
riences available to people through
these various types of groups. The in-
timacy provided in the small self-
chosen club, the experience of self
government in councils and commit-
tees, the Opportunity for the learning
of desired skills in the class, the com-
bining of learning and sociability in
the interest clubs, the exPerience of
close c00perative effort on a team—
these and other experiences available
in different types of groups will all en-
ter his consideration of how to set up
his program. If he is a well-equipped
worker, he will be equally aware of
the kinds of activities people may
want. Games, sports, cultural arts, dis-

erations. With these two, he weaves
a kind of plaid, a variety of groups
with a variety of activities—each
geared, so far as he can discover them,
to the interests of those participating.

As program gets under way, the
group worker, whether he is working
directly with a group or supervising
others, will have in mind certain guides
by which he will evaluate what is going
on. His first test always is what is hap-
pening to the pe0ple through this ex-
perience. This means that he does not
make attendance his only concern, al-
though, obviously, he will need to keep
accurate statistical records and will
work constantly on building up his

program. More important, he does not
evaluate any group primarily in terms
of its product, its ability to win games,
for instance, to produce ceramics or to
put on a highly finished play. Rather,
he keeps his focus always upon what
this experience is meaning to the peo-
ple participating. To this eXperience,
both the activities and the relationships
between people contribute. There is
what a psychiatrist has called recently,
“a language of activities” which we
need to understand. Activities have
much more meaning in them than
merely the attainment of skill. For ex-
ample, in early adolescence, the true
significance of some activities-5uch as
athletics for boys or dancing for girls
—1nay be found in the contribution

 

Happy, small group activities are a usual
sight in the community recreation center.

which they make to the maturing per-
sonality seeking to eXpress and inte-
grate its masculine or feminine role in
society. To the small child or the dis-
turbed hospital patient, the use of clay
through ceramics classes may release
deep tensions and provide acceptable
outlets for pent-up aggression. The
contribution which dramatics and pup-
petry can make to the exploration of
life situations and the clarifying of
confusions within the self is only be-
ginning to be understood. The real
evaluation of such activities by the
worker depends not upon the quality
of the pottery or the finish of the play,
but upon their significance to these
particular peOple.

The group worker will be especially
aware of the quality of interaction be-
tween the people. He will see the pur‘
pose that holds them together and its

meaning to various members, the way
they exercise control over each other

and so learn to govern themselves, the
subgroups within any large group and
what binds them together. He will be
conscious of the leaders and their fol-
lowers, the group spirit and the climate
of friendliness or hostility that perme-
ates all the activities. As he sees this
flow of activity and the simultaneous
personal interactions, the group work-
er’s concern is that each individual
may find in it the enjoyment for which
he came in a way which will contrib-
ute to his total life adjustment and,
through him, to a better community.

A group worker is likely to be par-
ticularly aware of those people who
indicate, often by their behavior rather
than by words, that they are not able
to enjoy the usual activities in con-
structive ways. The shy child on the
playground who is constantly rejected
by his mates, the bully on the team or
the thief in the lockerroom, the dom-
inating woman who can take part only
where she can control—are all giving
evidence that they need special con-
sideration. It is no answer just to ex-
clude them from the center. This trans-
fers their activity elsewhere and may
be a relief to a harried and busy
worker, but it is of no help to them.
It is true that, in some cases, such
people are too disturbed to take part
with others in regular activities and
need to be referred to an agency or a
clinic. Often, however, skillful leader-
ship which understands the basis of
behavior can help to turn such de-

and the relationships available in them.

In addition to these questions about
what the member of the class, team
or club is getting out of it for himself,
the group worker is likely to ask also,
as he tests his own program, how this
is contributing to the community that
established it. There are, inevitably,
certain by-products which affect the
community in the way people spend
their spare time. Here, again, it is pos-
sible to mention briefly only a few
which the community might expect.
One of the most obvious, and one often
emphasized by writers in the field of
recreation, is the effect upon the level
of taste and the leisure-time habits of

552

our p0pulation. The quality of our civ-
ilization expresses itself, in part, in
what pe0ple do voluntarily as recrea-
tion. This, in turn, influences our edu-
cational system, our government and
the basic values of our people. Levels of
musical taste, the skill of our sports
and games, the fair play and concern
for others learned on a playground,
the intellectual interests about public
questions developed in leisure time are
all expressions of American culture.
Group workers, as well as other recrea-
tion workers, are concerned that rec-
reation should contribute to more ap-
preciation of the higher levels of skill
and taste, to honesty and fair play and
to more responsible citizenship by all
our population.

One of the most important contribu-
tions to the general community‘which
the group worker believes can be made
through his program is the experience
in democratic methods of controlling
affairs of importance to the people. If
they have a chance to determine their
own program, either in recreation cen-
ters or within small groups, it' provides
a seed bed for self-determination and
the habits of democracy. That is why
group workers are opposed to SUper-
imposed programs—however well-or-
ganized they may seem. They not only
are unlikely to fit the needs of the
people involved, but they take from
them the right to make their own de-
cisions. It is only as they exercise
that right in various parts of their
lives, at home, in the church, in recrea-
tion, in various organizations, that we
develop as Americans the sense of re-
sponsibility and the experience of run-
ning our own affairs. The more recrea-
tion groups provide such opportunity
for self-determination—as in self-gov-
erning clubs or representative councils
——the more this valuable by-product is
made available to the community.

In our diverse communities with all

their different nationality, religious
and economic groupings, recreation
activities also can contribute a good
deal to mutual appreciation and the
elimination of group tensions. This is
not done just by proclamation or the
good intentions of the recreation work-
ers. Group workers have given much
attention to how groups can be formed
and carried on to create better feel-
ing, for example, between nationality
and cultural groups, or high and lower-
income parts of the community. A
group worker is likely to believe that
it is our responsibility to the com-
munity to use the opportunities af-
forded in such activities to encourage
and promote democratic attitudes. This
is often done more effectively by the
eXperience of working together on
common recreation interests than by
direct discussion or so-called inter-
group education.

It may well be felt at this point that
we are making undue claims for the
group worker. We are all too well
aware that more knowledge of results
is needed, that more skills must be ac-
quired. Research in this area is really
lacking. Perhaps our greatest contribu-
tion lies in the combination in the rec-
reation worker’s skill of the knowledge
of appropriate activities with the un-
derstanding of the individual and
grouPs drawn from the developing
body of knowledge about human be-
havior. As we learn to do this, we get
a new insight into behavior in school,
at home, on the gym floor or in the
crafts shop. We learn, too, to under-
stand and use ourselves on the job.
From these insights and the skills
which grow out of them, we can, we
believe, make recreation and leisure-
time education more satisfying and en-
joyable to the participants and more
valuable to the community that estab-
lishes our services and supports them,
both public and private.

CHANGE OF ADDRESS: Send your new address at least thirty days be-
fore the date of the issue with which it is to take effect. Address: Recreation

Magazine, Circulation Department, 421 Fifth Avenue South, Minneapolis
15, Minn. Send old address with the new, enclosing if possible your address

label. The post office will not forward c0pies unless you provide extra post-

age. Duplicate copies cannot be sent.

 

RECREATION

E

f
1

Sure we’re having a party on March seventeen!

Can’t anyone come less he’s wearin’ the green.

So put 011 a shamrock! Go get your colleen.

Stop lookin’ around. ’Tis yourself that we mean!

51!. WWE

WHEN THE CROWD arrives, if you don’t watch out,
they’ll gather in their usual little cliques; but you
can prevent that! Last March, at an institute in Pennsyl-
vania, We saw a clever stunt designed for this purpose.

Before the people entered the hall, they had to pick a
shamrock from a box held by one of the committee
members. Upon each shamrock was printed a typically
Irish family name—O’Brien, McEnaney, Kelly, Murphy
and so on. The guest assumed that name for the night,
pinned his shamrock upon his lapel to let everyone know
who he was, and—like all good Irishmen—immediately
started looking around for his relatives. In this way the
group was divided; long-standing cliques were abolished;
and the tone of the party was “set.”

At this particular occasion, a banquet, there were
larger editions of these same shamrocks placed at proper
intervals along the tables. The O’Brien family sat to-
gether in the section designated for them, and the Kel-
leys and Murphys did likewise.

At any occasion other than a banquet, this same plan
could be used to divide the group into teams. It could
also be used to put together square dance sets—provided
that there would be only eight in each “family.” Some ar-
rangement would have to be made in this case so that,
insofar as possible, there’d be an equal number of men
and women in each set. Separate boxes at the entrance,
with someone checking to see how many men’s and
women’s shamrocks were drawn, might help. White clay
pipes, pasted upon the shamrocks for the men, might
also help in designation. At the same time, this would
serve as a constant reminder to the.women who might
have to take men’s parts for the evening.

 

MARCH 1951

 

If it were an all-girl party, and the participants wanted
to play singing games, dance, enjoy musical mixers or
any other activity that required partners, the entire grOUp
could be divided before they entered the hall. The cards
or shamrocks drawn from the box might say “Cut-Class”
or “Lace-Curtain.” The Cut-Glasses could take the men's
parts and the Lace-Curtains could take the women’s.

At the Pennsylvania party, one of the highlights of
the evening was impromptu entertainment provided by
the “families.” Under the direction of the master of
ceremonies—who was dressed in a policeman’s uniform
and spoke with a thick Irish brogue—each family put
their heads together and planned their part of the pro-
gram. Some families sang Irish songs—Mother Machree,

My Wild Irish Rose, McNamarra’s Band, Who Threw the
Overalls in Mrs. Murphy’s Chowder?, When Irish Eyes
Are Smiling, Too Ra Loora Loora and many others
which kept the party as Irish as Paddy’s pigs!

And, speaking of pigs, reminds us of the novel hog-
calling contest that also was held at the party. As each
family was called upon, it presented its stunt either as a
group or through some offits members. “Ihen the Mur-
phys were called, Mr. Murphy rose and announced that
he would like to conduct a hog-calling contest. He then
asked the head of each family to come to the front of
the hall. The families had a little trouble deciding who
was the head! In one case, it was a woman!

Mr. Murphy lined the contestants up and gave each a
turn at hog-calling. Some of the men really tried hard.
They cupped their hands around their mouths, took deep
breaths and called at the top of their lungs, “Here. sowie.
sowie, sowie.” The lady head of the family, in her turn,
took down the house by leaning over, snapping her fingers
and calling gently, “Here, piggy, piggy. Here piggy.”

“The Irish Jig,” “The Irish Washerwoman." “The
Irish Potato” all have a place at your St. Patrick's Day
Party. Games involving the leprechaun, kissing the blar-
ney stone, the harp can all be used.

Signs of “Erin Go Braugh” can decorate the entrance
or the hall. Aside from putting plenty of green every-
where, there are many things which you can do to keep
your celebration from being just another party. Stream-
line some of your old standbys in games and fit them into
the theme of the day.

Begosh and begorra, plan a real St. Patrick's party!

553

‘~ I

.,.
Rhythm aetivit

IOTHING Is SO universal in appeal as music. Impulse
l almost compels a human being to respond to a well-

marked rhythm with physical movement. Rhythm is
older than language and is characteristic of all folk
music, both songs and dances. The savage does not
preach his religion; he dances it.

Interpretation of music through bodily expression may
often furnish release from the tensions and strains inci-
dental to modern life. Study of the various rhythmic
patterns offers a fascinating experience. Listening, hum-
ming and finally interpreting with simple movements is
an accepted way of learning patterns. Joyous experience,
outlet of emotion and creative activity are some of the
worthwhile results of participation.

Simple melody and clearly-defined rhythm make the
strongest appeal to children and to any who are uniniti-
ated in the study of music. Rhythm bands can act as
springboards to active participation in other forms of
musical expression and definitely should be a part of our
recreation program. They can be used with children,
teen-agers and adults—and can be very helpful in hos-
pital recreation and other similar projects. Educationally,
participation in rhythm bands offers:

1. Experience in united action.
2. A means of musical expression.

3. A means of learning to feel accent strongly—such
as the beat of time.

4. A means of learning to sense meter-—that is, the
difference between two-part and three-part measures.

5. A coordination of mind and muscle.

6. A means of following the conductor’s direction, of
reading an orchestration and thus preparing the partici-
pant for real orchestral and band eXperience.

Whole note Half notes Quarter notes
1 beat

4 beats 2 beats

ies in the recreation progranl

Anne Livingston

7. An introduction to music which creates the desire
to learn more of music.

8. Fun for all ages.

Teachers are sometimes asked how this widely-known
activity obtained its name. To those who are acquainted
with it, it is known as a toy orchestra—mot because it is
purely for entertainment, but because it follows, on a
smaller scale and in an easy and simplified form, the
ensemble procedure of a regular, grown-up orchestra. It
is now recognized by authorities as an important part of
a child’s education since it develops rhythm, makes for
better concentration, teaches teamwork, encourages and
stimulates appreciation of good music and deve10ps grace.
No person can be graceful unless he has developed a
sense of rhythm. A toy orchestra is especially adapted
for the lower grades in grammar schools, but also is
now being used by grownups for recreation purposes.

As a carry-over, there is a Toy Symphony written by
Hayden, which can be used by teen-agers and adults.
It is the last work in toy symphony literature and was
written some two hundred years ago, which shows that
this activity is not new. This classic was scored for cellos,
violins and piano but, recently, Professor O’Shea, direc-
tor of music for public schools in Boston, added a sup-
plement for voices in two-part harmony. This makes
possible a larger participation with some forty voices in
addition to regular instruments.

The following simple steps to fun with rhythm bands
have been prepared_for the recreation leaders who are
interested in conducting recreational music activities.
These have been written with the objective in mind of
supplying a simple technique and system for many lead—
ers who have not had formal musical training.

First, let us consider the value of different notes as
to time in 4/4 tempo.

Eighth notes Sixteenth notes

(Clap and count steadily—as in the tick-took of the clock.
Four counts to each measure, spacing between bars.)

554

 

RECREATION

Method of Playing Each Instrument

Drums: Right hand holds stick palm downward. Left
hand holds stick palm upward with handle of stick pass-
ing between thumb and index finger and third and fourth
fingers (fingers curved). Strike with arms and wrists re-

Rhythmic Pattern Number One. Clap and count aloud.

_ — _ —
A‘- -O_ _O— _O_ _ —

-\\m — _

_ ——_—
——_ _
em. —-——==_

IV-——--__--l
' __—-_---—l

laxed. (Sticks go up—down.) For small drum (size of
tambourine), hold handle in left hand and strike in cen-
ter with stick held in right hand.

Cymbals: Hold by handle with left hand and strike
edge with stick held in right hand. For clash effect, hold

cymbal in each hand and strike together with an up and ‘

down graceful swoop of arms.

Triangles: Hold by string with left hand and strike on
the middle of the outer edge of one of the long sides
with metal beater. “Roll” or “trill” effects are obtained
by placing metal beater inside triangle and striking all
corners with fast circular motion.

Tambourines: Hold by rim with one hand and strike
with base of palm of other hand. This is better than
striking with knuckles as there is no danger of injuring
instrument. For roll effects, hold tambourine high (level
_____—____________—.———
MRS. LIVINGSTON has been a member of leadership train-
ing staff of the National Recreation Assn. since 1943.

MARCH 1951

 

with head). Turn hand fast to the right and back.

Bells: Hold in right hand and shake once. For roll
effect, shake several times.

Clogs: Hold in right hand and strike against palm of
left hand. For roll effect, shake.

Sandblock: Hold by handle (one in each hand) and
rub together.

Tone Block: Hold in left hand and strike over hollow
section with stick.

Sticks: Hold one in each hand and strike together.

Baton: Hold in right hand and use the simple down-up
movement during the first few lessons. All play instru-
ments when the baton comes down, at its lowest point.

Play Rhythmic Pattern Number Two on the following
with rhythm instruments: (Music: Piano or singingr~
Glown'orm, Amaryllis, Anchors Aweigh and so forth.)

Home-made instruments or those purchased may be
used. Also try getting interesting effects with water
glasses, jugs and other sound-making objects.

01
On
Us

Rhythmic Pattern. Number Two

 

Musical Symbols

The following instruments are presented with their

respective symbols:

 
  
 
 
   
   
    
  
 
   
 

556

D — Drums strike
CY — Cymbals strike

T — Tambourines strike

TMTambourines continue to shake
B — Bells shake once

S — Sticks strike together
BwBells continue to shake

A -— Triangles strike
AmTriangles trill or ring

RYAN’S PLAYGROUND

DRY LINE MARKERS

BASEBALL . . . SOFTBALL
TRACK-PLAYGROUND ACTIVITIES
ACCLAIMED AT THE C. R. S.
AT SANTA BARBARA

Force Feed — Instant Shutot?
Easy to operate and till

Holds one 50:: Suck-No muss
* No Brushes or Screens

H 8: R # $61.40
Delivered
Slightly Less in
the West
Three other models
Send to Dept. G
for booklet

31-1;

H. & R. MFG. (20., LOS ANGELES 34, CALIFORNIA

 
   
 
   
  
 
 

C —— Clogs strike once
C MClogs continue to shake
X -— Tone block strike

1 _ “Rest” one beat

1 symbol in measure—play as Whole note (4 beats)
2 symbols in measure—play as half note (2 beats)
4 symbols in measure—play as quarter note (1 beat)

4 S S S S S S S S S S S S S S S S
E X X X X X X X X X X XX X X X X
D D D D D D D D

CY CY CY CY CY CY CY CY
AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB
D D D D D D D D
CY CY CY CY CY CY CY CY
TTTTTTTTTTTTTTTT
CCCCCCCCCCCCCCCC
D D D D D D D D
CY CY CY CY CY CY CY CY
T T T T TTTTTTTI
C C C C CCCCCCCl
A A A A AAAAAAAI
B B B B BBBBBBBI
D D D D BBBBBBBI
CY CY CY CY CY CY CY CY CY CY CY!
RECREATION

 

If sandblocks are used as part of orchestra, play each
time the tone blocks (X) play.

Method of play: Hold by handle (one in each hand)
and rub together.

More difficult orchestration, with musical symbols for
rhythm bands: (Music: Clowworm, Amaryllis and so

forth.)
Count I, 2, 3, 4.

 

4 A A A A
'- B B B B
4 I) D D D
CY CY CY CY
S S S S S S S S S S S S S S S S
T T T T
C C C C
D D D D
CY CY CY CY
S S S S
4 A A A A A A A A
_ B B B B B B B B
4 T T T T T T T T
C C C C C C C C
CY CY CY CY CY CY CY CY
D D D D D D D D
S S S S S S S S S S S S S S S S
4 A A A A A A A A AW AW
_' B B B B B B B B BW BM
4 T T T T T T T T T Tm
C C C C C C C C CM CM
CY CY CY CY CY CY CY CY CY CY CY CY CY CY CY CY
D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D
S S S S S S S S S S S S S S S S

Musical Mixers

Congress Mixer.” Music: Any 4/4 tempo with thirty-
lwo measures. Clowworm, Washington-Lee Swing, An-
chors Aweigh and so forth.

Formation: Double circle; partners facing each other,
men on inner circle. Both hands joined with partner’s.
(Directions are for men; ladies do reverse.)

Directions: 1. Step left, swing right foot across; step
right, swing left foot across.

2. Walk to left in circle to change placcs with part-
ner—four steps.

3. Repeat all, returning to place.

4. Men drop left hands, partners face counter-clock-
wise and walk forward four steps.

5. Partners join both hands and slide four sliding
steps, going in the same direction (counter-clockwise).

6. Do-si-do partners—pass right shoulder to right
shoulder and all step to own right to face new partner.
Repeat indefinitely.

Simple jingle to use in teaching rhythm and timing:

1. Step left—swing right—step right—swing left (four
beats).

2. Change places—2-3-4.
3. Repeat.
4. Walk forward—Z34.

5. Slide forward—234.
6. Do-si-do your partner and you lead to the right—4.

*THIs SIMPLE mixer was originated with, and by,

class, during an afternoon training period, to be used
for the Congress Play Night in Cleveland, Ohio. The

record used was Duchess Contra, Album Number 5, Ed
Durlacher, Freeport, New York.

For Rural Recreation

If you have anything to do with the planning of fun
for rural groups, families or even individuals, you can’t
afford to miss the new pamphlet put out by the Extension
Division of the United States Department of Agriculture
—Planning Recreation for Rural Home and Community,
by E. J. Niederfrank and Virginia Mussehnan. To quote
from the first chapter, “This booklet was written for you.
It has two major purposes. First of all, we hope that it
will make you conscious of recreation—what it is, what it
means—in your life and in the lives of the people around
you. If it does this, it will open your eyes to myriads of
new ideas, all of which will enrich your life and will
bubble over into anything you do in your day’s work.

“When this happens, and you see the tremendous possi-
bilities, you will wish to take action. Its second objective,
therefore, is to give you certain techniques which will
help to make rural living pleasanter and more satisfying

them. It is not a party book or 3 crafts book—but it will
tell you where to go for this material.

“In terms of a menu, it is an appetizer, designed to
stimulate the appetite and, once it has done this, you will
find it easy to plan the main course. “7e hope you will
find the meat for the main course right here!

“They say that a good cook uses many pots and pans.
In the same way, a good leader uses many techniques and
many kinds of recreation activities in carrying out his
regular work. This book won't give you all the answers,
but it will put you on the right road. You must start
at the signpost marked ‘Service,’ and the end of the
road will be marked ‘Satisfaction’—-for you and for the
folks up your way.”

Planning Recreation for Rural Home and Community
is available from the National Recreation Association, or
the Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D.C. The

price is thirty cents. (The government does not accept
stamps. We do.)

to the families and groups with whom you work and live.
“It is not a games book—but it will tell you about

MARCH 1951 DD'

adventure in coeducational recreation

The College Ming Club

James C. Loveless and Esther G. Post

ANY STUDY of current books, popular
magazines and 11ew5papers will re-
veal the wide interest of people, gen-
erally, in outdoor activities, and that a
larger portion of our leisure time is
concerned with this type of recreation.
The outdoor movement has achieved
great popularity in the colleges and
universities, especially in those of the
East. Daniels" reported that in 1938
seventy-five institutions of h i g h e r
learning had established outing clubs
to carry on many diversified outing
activities. Dennison, Dartmouth and
Allegheny Colleges were among the
pioneers influencing the movement.

Grove City College Outing Club
The Outing Club of Grove City Col-

lege, Pennsylvania, was started in 1938,
when six students were invited by those
of a neighboring school to participate
in a Week end of outing activities at
their cabin. The six returned to the
campus filled with enthusiasm and an
intense interest in the eXperience.
Representatives of this group, there-
fore, went to see the president of
Grove City College and asked permis-
sion to hold an open meeting for all
students who would be interested in
participating in an outing club. Per-
mission was granted and, at the organ-
ization meeting, attended by 120 stu-
dents, temporary officers were elected
to act as representatives of the grOUp
and to facilitate arrangements for club
activities for the remainder of the
year. Under the leadership of the offi-

 

*ARTHUR DANIELS, “College and Uni-
versity Outing Clubs,” Journal of

Health and Physical Education, May
1938, p. 278. -

558

cers, a provisional constitution was
adopted, membership requirements
were outlined and, finally, officers for
the coming year were elected.

During the first year, membership
grew to include approximately sixty
members and thirty heelers. The club
now has a membership of seventy
members and fifty heelers.

The complete c00peration of the or-
ganization with the administration has
been secured through: (A) a commit-
tee composed of members from the
board of trustees of the college whose
function it is to secure the club prop-
erty, authorize and supervise the con-
struction of the building and its basic
furnishing; (B) a faculty committee
which acts in an advisory capacity to
the student executive committee and is
composed of the club’s elected officers.

Each year, in June, the club makes
an activity and finance report to the
board of trustees at its annual meet-
ing. In this way, all groups are kept
well-informed.

Objectives of the Club

1. To provide opportunities for stu-
dents, both men and women, to partici-
pate in recreation activities which will
result in educative experiences.

2. To develop healthy attitudes to-
ward coeducational participation in
outdoor recreation activities through
democratic and cooperative efforts.

3. To promote an interest among
the students and faculty in simple out-
door activities for relaxation.

4. To provide facilities for outdoor
activities away from the campus.

5. To coordinate the college com-
munity effort in policies, finances and
use of facilities for programs of camp-

 

ing, hiking, winter sports, cookouts,
canoe trips, cooperative work pro-
grams and “gypsy” trips of a recre-
ational nature.

Rules and Regulations

The constitution is brief and con-
tains only regulations necessary to
control the operation of the club. It
provides for the election of officers——
president, vice president, secretary and
treasurer. The club executive board is
made up of the officers arid two faculty
advisors, one for the men and one for
the women, appointed by the adminis-
tration of the college who are usually
guided in this selection by the sugges-
tions of the student executives.

The rules concern the regulation of
the use of club facilities—the cabin,
cabin furnishings, club acreage, a
truck belonging to the club, camping
equipment, canoes and equipment for
the work program.

Chaperones for outings are faculty
members who may or may not be

~members of the club, and they are

subject to the approval of the dean
of women of the college. At the open-
ing of the school year, a letter is sent
to all prospective Chaperones outlining
the rules and regulations. a

In the event that the Chaperones
cannot go on the trip for which they
sign, they are asked to provide an
approved substitute. They are consid-
ered guests of the club and are not
required to pay any charges. How-
ever, their guests are asked to pay the
same fee as the students. Club mem-
bers furnish transportation when
needed, but if Chaperones supply their
own, the club asks that they arrive
with the students and stay until all

RECREATION

of the students are prepared lo leave.

The student officer in charge of the
outing is responsible for the program
of work and entertainment that takes
place at the cabin, and for furnishing
chaperones with an outline of the pro-
gram, the time for meals and the
time for the termination of the outing.
Information concerning regulations
for the use of firearms, telephone num-
bers of doctors on call and safety regu-
lations are given to the prospective

chaperones by the faculty advisors.
Membership

The classes of membership are: ac-
tive, heeler, alumni, honorary. Mem-
bers of the faculty may be affiliated
with the club in all respects, but
have no voting power.

Definite requirements for active
membership are: (1) payment of one
dollar dues each semester,  a con-
tinued interest in outing activities,
(3) participation in club outings, and
(4) participation in the cooperative
work program of the organization.

Heelers are prospective members of
the club who must earn twenty-five
points during the course of two se-
mesters before they can be considered
for active membership. Points are
given for the following participation:

Activity Points
Week-end outings (Saturday

and Sunday) ........................ .. 2
Week-end outings (Saturday

or Sunday) .......................... .. 1

Wood cutting or other work
projects approved by the club 2
Work on the cabin or campsite

(one afternoon) .................... .. 2
Hiking, picnics and so forth...-.. 1
Heeler meetings ........................ .. 1

Committees

The duties of the six important com-
mittees give a picture of the function
of the club. The program committee
is charged with the responsibility of
planning and developing the various
activities. A program of the semes-
ter’s activities is presented to the club
within the first month of each semester.

The transportation committee is re-
sponsible for transportation of mem-
bers, chaperones and equipment to and
from any club outing. Any special
transportation necessary for extended
gypsy trips or in connection with some

MARCH 1951

 

during Our

Students of brow (.11)i Lolltgi mm m. -Iu:-:--luuim'i\ min- "-“ "h

cabin. The student OmCOI in :harg. is (rhpI-IL-‘llnl. [or pma an of with an) a-ntertammvnl

special work project also is arranged
for by this committee.

The equipment committee keeps a
complete file of all equipment owned
by the club. This is submitted to the
treasurer "at the end of each semester.
All equipment is checked at the com-
pletion of each outing. All equipment
is maintained and kept in good repair,
and a place for storage is provided.

The food committee plans menus,
purchases food and prepares meals on
all outings and trips. It makes certain
that all necessary equipment for cook-
ing is supplied. Copies of menus and
grocery orders are given to the women
advisors for approval at least one day
before a scheduled activity.

The publicity committee maintains
bulletin boards with announcements
of club activities and educational in-
formation. All newspaper publicity and
advertising connected with the work
program fall to this committee.

The cabin and trails committee aids
in the construction and maintenance
of all properties pertaining to the

560

 

The cabin is situated in the center of about seven hundred acres of forest, holds road rights.

cabin and trails. At all times it provides
a proper supply of wood for the cabin
and does all in its power to maintain
satisfactory conditions for skiing, skat-
ing, hiking, hunting and shooting.

It is the duty of the chairman of each
committee to submit a written report
to the secretary at each meeting.

Facilities and Equipment

The club property includes one cabin
with a capacity for housing twenty-five
men and twenty-five women for an in-
definite period. It contains a large,
completely- equipped kitchen, dining
room, library, lounge with fireplace,
two dormitory Wings and toilet facili-
ties. Located nearby are the rifle and
skeet ranges.

The cabin is seventeen miles from
the college campus and situated in
the center of approximately seven
hundred acres of Pennsylvania forest
along the Allegheny River. The out-
ing club owns eighty acres of this
area and has the privilege of using the
surrounding ‘ property. Road rights

leading into the cabin also are held by
the club.

The equipment used by individual
members or groups for approved ac-
tivities, and owned by the club, in-
cludes a one-and-a-half ton truck, axes,
saws, skis, ice skates, furnishings for
the cabin, snowshoes, toboggans, arch-
ery and shooting materials. Cabin fur-
nishings include double-decker beds,
rustic lounge furniture, blankets, kitch-
en and dining room equipment and li-
brary books on subjects of special in-
terest to members.

The club acreage, lodge and perma-
nent furnishings were given by the
college administration; other equip-
ment was purchased mainly by funds
earned by the cooperative work pro-
gram. This program i n c l u d e s such
projects as the chopping and selling of
cord wood, the planting of 50,000
cedar and fir trees on the strip-mine
spoil banks in western Pennsylvania.
Girls and boys alike participate in the
work program and have a wonderful
time doing so.

RECREATION

 

“T he young are simple-natured,” Aristotle said, “because they have
never yet witnessed much depravity; confiding, because they have as yet
not been often deceived; full of hope, for they have not yet experienced
many failures . . . They are fond of their friends and companions, be-
cause they . . . as yet judge nothing by expediency, not even their friends.
They think they know everything, and confidently ap'irm it; they are in-
clined to pity, because they think all men are virtuous.”

The morning of life has no clouds; there is always a constant rainbow
but never any rain. The world is warm and wondrous, and the behavior
of the ant is more important than the atom. The habits of the fish are a
deeper enigma for the young angler than international maneuvers are for
devious statesmen. Global diplomacy may shape the destiny of mankind,
but the marvels of creation are spread before the eyes of children in the

backyard, the woods and the hills.

The whistling jet plane, as it seeks its target, cannot match the heady
exhilaration in the heart of a young woodsman as he stalks his prey—-
and if the crooked arrow from the faulty bow falls short, no one is the
' loser, nothing has been destroyed. A mud pie feeds the starving dolls of
all the world; tart currant jelly tingles on a youngster’s tongue. The facts
of economics are learned at a lemonade stand, and buying and selling are
less important than crunchy ice and tangy sweetness. The plop of a
spilled ice cream cone makes a noisier and more tragic blast than the
awful bomb—yet the wailing little girl cannot know she weeps for all
humanity.

Mankind is sick unto death-“only the children are well.

This page reprinted throiigh the courtesy of
The Register and Tribune, Des Moines, Iowa.

In the days of childhood, where the worries of mankind have no place, two little
girls are fascinated as they investigate the mysteries of animal life found near by.

 

alt-l

Ewn during. school days, time can he found ‘01
fun and for lessons of a recreational nature.

The high cost of lising and tilt Russians m not
serious problems to disturb an afternoon's- ties-hing.

 

Ben Solomon

RECREATION CAN reduce delinquency
—but not in the ordinary pro-
grams of organized activities generally
used by public and private recreation
agencies and with which we are all
more or less familiar. These regular
programs, which from here on shall be
referred to as the conventional or nor-
mal programs, cannot possibly reduce
delinquency to any appreciable degree
nor should they be expected to do so.
The conventional program was never
planned for that dichult purpose. Its
goals are different and its values
are many, but it is both unfair and
quite unreasonable to expect it to cure,
or even to reduce, delinquency—ex-
traordinary results for which it was
never designed.

I am not overlooking the really ex-
cellent work that many of our better
recreation programs are doing—not
only in the general welfare of growing
boys and girls, but also in helping
those who need it to learn to make the
right choices in life and to become
good citizens. There are many such
carefully-designed and well-managed
programs but, as a general rule, they
are too few in number and the sum
total of their delinquency-reduction-

562

-—-  I

results still remains an altogether small
factor. It is, of course, exceedingly
difficult to evaluate this problem, to
know exactly how much such pro-
grams affect delinquency reduction, al-
though we all know that a good rec-
reation program does make a positive
contribution in this direction. The pur-
pose of this article, however, is to
show that recreation programs, in gen-
eral, can be helped to do a better job
in this special field of youth welfare.

Liaison

None of us like the linking of rec-
reation with delinquency, for various
good reasons. It is not at all beneficial
for recreation, especially in view of the
fact that it is very difficult to prove
that recreation—the normal program
———can do very much about delin-
quency. We don’t like the liaison of
these two fields because it is unfair
to label, by association, all the partici-
pants in a recreation program as
delinquents or even as potential de-
linquents.,lt is certainly not good pub-
lic relations to emphasize this one
lurid facet of the whole youth prob-
lem because it tends to obscure the
many real values of such programs.

 

These primarily are planned for the
ninety-eight per cent of our children
who do not get into any kind of trou-
ble with the law. Recreation is a rap-
idly growing important field and it
needs the public’s support; failure to
do a job it never was set up to do
would certainly weaken public confi-
dence in it, all of which would unjustly
undercut the really excellent work it
is doing for the millions of children
in its programs.

Roadblocks in Reduction

In my opening statement it was defi-
nitely stated that preventive recreation
‘can reduce delinquency—by reaching
the vulnerable children early, by meet-
ing their real needs, by directing their
energies in to constructive Channels
and through the influence of specially:
trained leaders.

The conventional program, on the
other hand, touches these factors but

 

AUTHOR is the editor of Youth Leaders
Digest magazine as well as special lec-
turer and teacher, New York Univer-

sity and Springfield College.

RECREATION

lightly. It is not set up for this kind
of a job. It does not aim to meet the
main body of highly vulnerable chil-
dren, those who don’t come into the
program, the “stayaways.” It isn’t de-
signed to meet their particular needs.
It cannot direct their energies any-
where because many of these children
aren’t in the program to be directed.
And, lastly, too many of the “leaders”
in recreation today are not actually
lo a d e r s (exceptions, of course) ;
rather, they are instructors in activities
and their program is activity-centered,
whereas it should be child-centered.

In addition, the usual program does
not do a better job of delinquency re-
duction because:

1. It does not reach or attempt to
reach the causes and contributing fac-
tors to delinquency; and, certainly,
any program that overlooks these can-
not be fully effective. Even granting
that here and there the program does
help an individual case, delinquency
is like an epidemic and can best be
treated by wiping out, nullifying or
reducing the causes.

2. It cannot do anything about atro-
cious home conditions, ugly neighbor-
hoods, commercial amusement “hot
spots,” lax law enforcement and so on
—-all of which are exceedingly impor-
tant factors in the potential delin-
quent’s life.

3. Recreation leaders, in general, do
not seek out, do not want and, in fact,
cannot afford to keep the very bad
disciplinary cases in their groups to
the detriment of the other children
who do behave.

4. The conventional program, too
often, and to too large a degree, is a
skill program and thus is not geared
to service for the weak, the highly vul-
nerable, inept children who cannot
compete successfully

5. These vulnerables, ninety per
cent of whom greatly need attention,
stay away from the program and,
therefore, cannot possibly be influ-
enced by it.

6. This type of boy or girl doesn’t
like rules or codes of conduct which
are necessary in the normal program
handling large numbers.

7. Any attempt to force the inept
children to compete with the more

skilled, better balanced children, and
MARCH 1951

to play according to the rules of the
game, shows them up in a very poor
light, which lowers their already low
egos, thus increasing their unhappiness
and frustrations.

8. These vulnerable stayaways want
many things a recreation program can-
not give them, such as to play at late
hours or when they should be in
school. They want high adventure,
risk, even challenging danger.

9. Of course, they resist supervision
by leaders or anyone else interested in
their behavior, their morals, their eth-
ics or their general goodness.

10. Physically, mentally, emotion-
ally, morally and socially, such chil-
dren require specialized services.

11. They cannot pay any kind of
costs or fees, a fact which bars them
from various types of recreational
programs.

It follows then, that to ask the regu-
lar recreation program to do a good
job of delinquency reduction is cer-
tainly making an unfair request, one
which cannot show gratifying results.

Highly Vulnerable Children

That reducing delinquency through
recreation is an extraordinary goal re-
quiring extraordinary methods must
be clearly understood before we assay
tackling this kind of job. In many
cases we’ll have to throw the rule book
out the window and make up our
own rules as we go along. We must
also understand into what we are get-
ting, what delinquency is and just
what kind of youngsters these potential
delinquents are. In preventive recrea-
tion work, we will not brag about hav-
ing the “grandest kids in the world,”
in our troop, on our playgrounds or in
our clubs. We won’t be able to say
that they come from the best families
in town. Quite the opposite, they, to
a large extent, very probably will be
the product of society’s failures, of
some parents who should never have
had children in the first place. They
will be boys and girls who inherited
traits that handicap them from birth;
who have learned all too early in life
that they must steal to eat, fight to
live, trust or believe in no one, God
or man, that the battle of life is a
dog-eat-dog affair and that the race is
to the clever and the crafty. In their

world only sissies, saps and (lopes
work hard and save money. More than
this, very often, they are weak physi-
cally, mentally or emotionally. Not
having been able to overcome their
environmental or personal problem
they, you can be sure, have already
started to use their wits to live.

If you have any idea that our juve-
nile delinquents are simply mischie-
vous boys and girls, full of high spir-
its and misdirected animal energy and
that all they need is-an arm around
their shoulders and‘ a good “talking
to” to straighten them out, reflect upon
the ugly facts. Last year hundreds of
murders were committed by children
under eighteen years of age. Thou-
sands of rapes, banditries with weap-
ons, assault and batteries, burglaries
and similar crimes sent over one mil-
lion of them to juvenile and other
courts. Reflect also upon the fact that
maybe another million get into trou-
ble with the law every year but, for
one reason or another, never make a
court appearance; that two hundred
thousand are committed' to our juve-
nile institutions; four hundred thou-
sand are released on probation; and
four hundred thousand are given a
lecture by the judge and sent home
with some hope and a lot of prayer.
They include ages from eight years,
often younger, to sixteen or eighteen,
the juvenile court top limit, which
varies in different states.

Prevention

If our only solution to the whole
delinquency problem were the giving
of treatment, correction, rehabilita-
tion, after the crimes were committed,
facilities and personnel for such a
job would never be adequate. Further-
more, no matter how excellent the
treatment might be, the problem itself
would never grow less and the costs
and loss to society would be continu-
ous and staggering. Our real hope lies
in preventive measures which, in time,
may decrease the incidence of delin-
quent acts. This, coupled with the vari-
ous other types of prevention outside
of the recreation field, especially those
pertaining directly to the causes of
crime, constitutes our real hope of
solving this problem in years to come.

Preventive recreation stands in the

563

same relationship to recreation, in
general, that preventive medicine does
to medical practice and that preventive
psychiatry does to psychiatry. It took
a long time for medicinc to develOp
along specialized lines, especially to
realize that it was at least as impor-
tant to promote good health, to pre-
vent disease through ’public health
measures, through an understanding of
sanitation, good nutrition, food in-
spection and so on, as it was to cure
disease. So, also, with preventive psy-
chiatry. Mental hygiene teaches us
how to stay normal, to maintain our
mental balance, and it is interesting to
note that psychiatrists are agreed that
recreation is a most valuable preven-
tive of mental and emotional ill health.

Preventive recreation is already in
use, albeit not by that name. George

Hjelte speaks of its use in his book,

Recently we have become more
and more aware of the fact that
recreation may be adapted as a
program or an instrument for the
accomplishment of specific so-
cial gains and educational ob-
jectives, and as a therapy for
the treatment of social malad-
justment of individuals and
groups. Upon this thesis the ar-
ticle, “Preventive Recreation,” is
provocative. It is also informa-
tive on specific methods for the
adaptation of recreation to effect
results in the prevention of ju-
venile delinquency. We have in-
dulged in too much fuzzy think-
ing on this important subject. It

is valuable to the recreation

movement to have a penetrating,
forthright and practical exposi-
tion of this subject. —George
H jelte, General Manager, Depart-
ment of Recreation and Parks,
Los Angeles, California.

 

The Administration of Public Recre-’

ation. On page sixteen he refers to its
uses in the prevention of delinquency
and of accidents. In industry, recrea-
tion is one of the best preventives of
absenteeism and reduces labor turn-
over materially—two very important
elements in the operation of a big in-
dustrial plant. Organized recreation
programs in many places prevent

564

workers from disliking the plant com-
munity in which they and their fam-
ilies must live and help reducc bore-
dom on a routine job. In some indus-
trial towns, esPecially in the South,
it would be dillicult to hold employees
on the job without suitable recreation
programs to engage the whole family.
In mental hospitals, recreation long
has been used to prevent deterioration
in some classes of patients.

Preventive recreation calls for no
ordinary recreation oh and should not
be undertaken too lightly. The goals
that you seek, the techniques and gen-
eral practices that you will use, the
rules that govern your supervision and
especially the children and youth with
whom and for whom you will work—
all are quite different from those with
which the usual recreation program
generally is concerned.

Differences

IN THE NORMAL
PROGRAM*
The children
come to y o u r
club, center, play-

IN PREVENTIVE
RECREATION
You h a v e to

go after t h e m
and induce them

We’re a f t e r
large numbers of
participants.

We look for

high s c o r e s ,
c h a m p i o n -
ships, breaking
records, winning
teams.

We win prizes,
medals, pennants.

Much of the

program tries to
improve a boy’s
or girl’s skill.

N o r m a l l y
we’re concerned
with o u r crafts
exhibit pieces,
dramatic p r 0 ~
ductions and so

OH.

We have a job

We specifically
are seeking the
highly vulnerable
children.

We’re more in-
terested in
n i n g b o y s to
come it n d e r a
good leader’s in-

win-

fluence.

Here we win
hcarts, peace of
mind.

We’re
cerned with im-
proving his char-
acter, his thought

con-

processes, his
choices.
We’ll be proud

of a life straight-
ened out, neigh-
borhood cleaned
up, a family kept
together.

9

This work

ground voluntar- to participate.

ily.
T h e ordinary
activities-

Leaders must
be specially
trained
vention and in

trained leader is' in 'pre-

more or less sat-

isfactory here. delinquency.

The leader The leader
works on wood works on“ Jimmy
or metal. or Mary.

We must build
up individual
boys and girls. ..

Too many or-
ganizations a r e
i n t e r e s t e d
in building up
attendance lig-
ures.

*WE LIST HERE many” of those prin-
ciples and techniques common to the
general run of typical programs, real-
izing fully that there are some excel-
lent exceptions here and there in
municipal and private recreational de-
partments and agencies. In fact, it is
but fair to state that there are some
regular programs so well conducted,
that many of the principles and tech-
niques listed in the preventive recrea-
tion column have been in common use
for some time.

knows no hours,
no r e g u l a r or
routine schedule.

to do for so
many hours a
day, so many
days a week.

In this preventive philosophy the
leader is his brother’s keeper. He cares
whether the children have eaten to-
day, yesterday and will eat tomorrow.
He is more concerned with the ugly
duckling who mopes in the corner,
who can’t play anything well, who has
many things the matter with him or
her, than he is with the skilled young-
ster who can easily make the ball team
or is clever in crafts, dramatics and
so forth.

He seeks out, goes after the former
type in the alleys, on or under the
docks, in the cellars, on the roofs or
wherever they “hang out.” These, the
stayaways, are the ones he must find,
interest, attract, hold and influence.
Ten of these children in a preventive
recreation program, as far as delin-
quency reduction is concerned, are
better than a thousand more or less
normal children participating in the
conventional program. ’

This type of leader is concerned
with causes, especially with those that

RECREATION

recreation activities or that he himself
might be able to influence or affect.
To a limited extent, depending upon
the budget and adequacy of staff, he’ll
do enough casework, Big Sister or Big
Brother work to enable him to find
out what a child’s problem is and to
try to solve it.

This whole plan of preventive action
—the program emphasis, the type of
activities, the leader’s training, his
qualifications and the techniques he
uses—is directly designed for one ma-
j or purpose: to steer highly-vulnerable
children over the dangers and pitfalls
of their way of life. This will take a
lot of doing, a lot of courage, a lot
of specialized knowledge.

Program and Activities

To do a better job of prevention,
the activities-centered program must be
supplanted by a child-centered one.
The activity must be used not as an
end in itself, but as a tool to enable
the leader to meet real needs, to in-
fluence the boy’s or girl’s thinking.
Teaching him the various skills needed
in program activities may not neces-
sarily be the things which that child
needs in the present or future—except
as these skills can be a means of help-
ing to fulfill, helping to satisfy, his
_ basic needs, lifting his ego and bring-
ing him more directly under the lead-
er’s influence.

There will be many cases when
game rules and other rules will have
to be modified to enable the unskilled
participant to compete well, to win
a measure of success, to achieve. For
example, there is no special reason for
having a boy pitch horseshoes the of-
ficial distance of forty feet between
pegs if this makes it very difficult for
him to get many ringers and to per-
form well. The distance can be ma-
terially reduced, thus offering oppor-
tunity for a better score and for giving
him a chance to “shine.” And so, in
many other cases, the leader can use
simplified lead-up games for the same
reason.

The Stayaways

The stayaways are the main ones
we’re after. In their cases, we have to
bring the program and its values to
them, and I suggest here various work-

NIARCH 1951

ing devices* which can be helpful.
Even an excellent activities man might
not be at all satisfactory for this kind
of a job.

1. Branch Centers. Open local tem-
porary recreation centers as close to
where the gang “hangs out” as possi-
ble—in vacant stores, cellars, lofts, ga-
rages or other places which you can
rent or borrow for temporary periods.

2. Mobile Units. A large van or sim-
ilar vehicle with portable stage, movie
equipment, boxing ring, puppet the-
atre, juke box and other equipment,
can pitch camp for stays of varying
duration in areas where it can reach
the largest number of stayaways.

3. The Play-0}} Technique. Start
block or gang activity which, through
competition, requires competitive play-
offs in a gymnasium, upon a large
stage, in a swimming pool, on pool
tables or in a boxing ring, all or part
of which you may have in your center.

4. Rival Competition. Vary number
three by pitting natural inter-block ri-
vals against each other for the play-off
at your club or center. You can sub-
vert trouble here by using local “big
name” heroes, whom the boys respect,
as referees and other assistant mana-
gers and leaders.

5. Cooperation. Co-sponsor activi-
ties with, and through, local national-
ity groups, using their leaders, church-
men and local politicians.

6. Community-wide Popular Af-
fairs. In promoting these, include the
gang leaders and “bell cows” in your
planning and especially in your pub-
licity. These affairs would include such
items as nationality festivals, holidays
and other celebrations (American and
foreign), exhibits, dances, suppers and
so on. Give profits, if any, to local
clubs, churches or use for special local
recreation purposes.

7. Local Group Leaders. Wherever
possible, employ and publicize local
influential merchants, professional

*IN MANY CASES in preventive recrea-
tion, especially here in dealing with
the stayaways, we suggest techniques
which are not desirable or practical
in the normal, conventional recreation
program. Extraordinary reforms some-
times require unusual methods.

men, “big name” heroes and pay them
for their help.

8. Local Programs. Build these
around the children's real needs,
whether it involves sending them to
camp, getting them food, clothes or
part-time jobs.

9. Exhibition Matches. Conduct in
your center and ask local experts, ball-
players, pool players, prizefightcrs to
make personal appearances.

10. Prizes of Script. Award many
non-negotiable coupons for food or
clothes which must be picked up at the
club or center during some event when

The boy with the tendency to
delinquency often feels neglected,
abandoned and bitter. Any be-
longing concept comes from a
gang, which in itself is often
an outlaw group. To reach such
a boy means new techniques to
hold him, in adapting recreation
activities to his particular needs.
To get him into accepted com-
munity patterns means leader-

ship of a most dynamic type op-
erating at a high character de-
'velopment level. Here in this pre-

ventive recreation philosophy,
you’ll find such dynamic leader-
ship explained and the tech-
niques clearly outlined—lay B.
Nash, Ph.D., Chairman, Depart-
ment of Physical Education,
Health and RecreatiOn,

York University.

New

 

a local hero or “big name" can dis-
tribute them.

11. Special Arrangements. Activi-
ties for stayaways must be conducted
at times and places when and where'
the largest number of vulnerable chil-
dren can be reached.

Program and activity hours must be
adjusted to those times when the vul-
nerablcs are on the loose, when they
can be reached by leaders. Prevention
is not a routine nine-to-five job.

In general, as mentioned before.
skill improvement must be secondary
to boy improvement, to character-

 

'SEE “Juvenile Delinquency-~Practi-
cal Prevention" by the author. Availa-
ble from Youth Service, Incorporated,
Putnam Valley, .N'eu' I‘orh‘.

U!
Ch
01

building, idea-forming. Seeds must be
planted that might take root and
bloom in better a s p i r a t i 0 ns and
choices, in more worthy desires, bet-
ter dreams of the future. Small steps
can be taken toward making such
dreams come true, as, for instancc, by
helping a boy, whose aspiration is to
play in a band, to get instrument-play-
ing lessons, and so forth.

Activities must be specially selected
that have important carry-over values
for these children. Such values must
be character-building now and, just
as important, have life-making value
for the future.

Little Girls

It is of paramount importance that
there be a vast increase in activities
and progress for little girls, five to ten
years of age, from the worse sections
of town. These girls marry earliest,
choose their husbands by the lowest
standards, have the largest families on
the smallest incomes. These are the
little girls who, if identified early and
influenced toward a better life, can be
saved. Through them many potential
delinquent boys and girls—their fam-
ilies to come—will receive better care
and training from infancy up. One
such little girl helped today might save
a half-dozen children for society to-
morrow.

Parents

A large part of the program must
be directed at the parents of these chil-
dren and especially at keeping the
family together instead of separating
it into skill and age groups. As we all
know, families that play together nor-
mally stay together, and certain activi-
ties can:

1. Help win the “battle of the gener-
ations,” narrow the abyss between par-
ents and children, their differences in
points of view, in ideas and ideals.

2. Help increase parental control
and understanding of their children.

3. Help increase the child’s respect
for his parents.

4. Enable leaders to influence the
parents.

5. Bring some laughter and sun-
shine into their drab lives.

Examples of activities that can be
used include family camps, outings,
picnics, inter-family competition, fish-

566

ing parties, parties in general, card
parties, forums and general social in-
tercourse, movies, festivals, exhibits,
suppers, folk dancing and so forth.
Some parents could also volunteer as
umpires of games, managers of teams,
volunteer leaders in general and could
help materially in securing and sewing
uniforms and costumes for the chil-
dren.

Modify Activities

Knowing exactly what these highly-
vulnerable children are like, remem-
bering that they are continuously fight-
ing an unfair battle for life, knowing
their problems, individual and envi-
ronmental, may teach us how to modi-
fy or adjust each activity (1) to make
it acceptable and attractive to them,
(2) to interest and hold them, and
(3) to give the leader a chance to
use his personal influence for good.
This type of child is on a continual
and active hunt for some happiness
which, in his language, means action
of some sort. He isn’t too interested
in whether the activity is legal or con-
structive or harmful to himself or
to others. If it promises excitement,
adventure, thrills and risk, a challenge
to his speed, his wits, his strength and
luck, he’ll go for it. We must measure
the activities which we pr0pose for
him from this, his own angle of inter-
est, if we are to eXpect acceptance.

Income

And, lastly, there are many activi-
ties which we can create and promote
to help increase both parental income
and to put some small money into the
boy’s or girl’s pocket. A recreation
leader can find or make many Oppor-
tunities to help parents who need this
income to get training in shoe or
clothes repair, in use of tools leading
towards specialized crafts work, toy
manufacture, clock repair, furniture
repair and refinishing and the like.
There are many part-time jobs for
which these parents can be trained—in-
cluding domestic service, gardening,
small farming, quilting, needlework
and, of course, baby sitting.

Leadership

It is upon leadership that success or
failure of the whole program of pre-

vention is based. The finest philos0phy,
the best facilities, the most excellent
plan and program of activities must
still be made to work by the leader.
He is the contact with the vulnerable
child; his is the influence that counts.

In using recreation activities for
delinquency reduction, the leader must
be a real leader of children; his quali-
fications must be right; he must know
his recreational activities in general
(he doesn’t necessarily have to be ex-
pertly skillful in any of them) ; he must
understand the type of children with
whom he’s working and have a sym-
pathetic tolerance for their weaknesses
and an evangelist’s zeal in helping to
overcome them. Even the best instruc-
tor in any activity needs special train-
ing in various phases and methods of
preventive work. The very definition
of leadership tells us important things
to remember. “A leader is a person
who has infiuence with pe0ple, which
causes them (a) to listen to him, to
follow him or his advice, (b) to agree
on common goals and (c) to go into
action toward these goals.”'

If you are an executive in any type
of recreation work, ask yourself how
many of your staff leaders have real
infiuence with the type of vulnerable
children whom we have described.
How many of your.leaders can influ-
ence the stayaways enough to induce
them to come into your program, to
like it and to stay any appreciable
length of time? Most certainly it is the
unusual playground leader, Scoutmas-
ter, club, center or other recreation
staff worker—there are some—whom
vulnerable stayaway children will heed
and follow in any kind of a program.

Preventive recreation is not for or-
dinary leaders, for clock-watchers, sta-
tistic or publicity builders. It is for
tall men who yet can stoop to help the
wretched, the most needy of these, our
highly vulnerable children. It is for
recreation professionals with an evan-
gelist’s zeal and a politician’s practica-
bility. It is for recreational sculptors
who can mold human boy clay into
better men. All this may or may not
raise your salary, but it surely will
raise your heart. Maybe you won’t win
many games, but I’ll bet you’ll win
many, many boys. Who knows of a
better job for a man?

RECREATION

-r— "—-—-v

 

0
EF

_—_———————__———————————————_————_——_————————————————w——————.

0

:58: m5 Ems?" 0,. <005M0n 05585 58 .8 30% Sm 05 :8 80088
On mum.“ Ho :08 ms: 05 :85: 30%:5m 3:02 :8 80:3u :0:m0 :8
:00: 05: 0:80. M058?

m0oo8n woo—8% 500058 m0 5000:: 5:9 :8 00=0mm 0M0 Macaw :53
z 5.00 583:0: 5. :8: 55305552: Somme?

w0005m0 :88 08 m0 585% 0000 mow :88 “80088. :8 52:0: 00m.“
mm 43% 058:. .28 02580 005 50 500:0 5% :8 €00:€0~E5m mrow
05:u 3a :53 5820au :8 80088 0:00. > m0" 0m :05 3:03 00mm”
05.05 050 :0:3. 30 355: $50” 0 005832 £00 80:0: 00 W80
:8 00500505” 8%:83 050 :53 398: no 50 98003:: mm 07905 :5
Emcnm m.

v.00 0 M058 0m *5? 0m 005:m:05m5m 05: 050 :53 mm m5~0 .8 :0
wows—E. 3:5 0: 0mg 50 no "205%.?5. 3% m0008~ 58—20%.

Ems—.0 m

 

(Fold Along This Line)

0

Z—u-v—uiz

 

mOOOH—ww E0923?

1:8 mi: :38 E8: 2:: £885 0m Esmrgmn $0.5 wo:.. “0028:0058
05: £80888... d8 £002 :08 000080. r00r0%. 0 598: ~W058 :5-
858: 5% w. m. 1:28 0% 45385“ W380? A,er M058u 0 0033:5030:
0m 80 r00r0% 05: mam“ 58850: 5:00u mm 059:5? 000% no 30%
05: 0 205815: 0050:5053 m3 M0580 $80 8:85: 5005 :8 8%.

*M00330: @% $000003 W030? b80080. 0% Q0305? 530083 NR0.
002.00. 301:0 M00303 00:900. N00030:“ 302:0. M00 0:00 «<0.
03002.00 E0003 0% Q0080u @0000... 0:: 00:03.00 30%0: 00.00 M0000.

050... 0% mm. m. “3.000.

g

S

‘
‘4

GAD“

Sl’0llTS

-08 88 32: «0 220m .mcoumhmcoEo: E :8 $3: 888.88on
:0 which «o 883 =m 8m :8: on :8 .8: “macaw 3 .83me 5
.5; «0 388 88:88 :m 0388 @8808 2:
99...: meH :0 .83.“ 2: wEEmwm H2; inn—8:9» :8 2383 “:3
$313 8808 was? PE; 03 .2388 2: 28E 8:; 3 0368;
E :58: :5... 68mm wEmmmi a right: £388 8808 Emma
08: a? .3: E2: S :33“? on :8 08mm :5: .mEmw 8x8; 2:
8: 5:: 8:0 8:352... .msz 8H :8: ma :8 cm? 3388 SE.

208on 2: “8 womb .550

m oEmE

 

ém 08mth £05m mE>oE 2: mo “89E 2: 8:2: a: 30: 3
8:8 E :BEwBB u: “may: mwumwsmum c830: 2E. Emma 83 3E:
:88 6:sz 95 8952— :3383 8: £83 30 E... mo wEHmmmsoo
.880: com E :3: mm :25 .8683 a :35 9: 0m 6:: 18w 2:
mo 8:80 2: $38 E? #25 2: w :3 3 :8: mm? E moEEoEom
E; o: E? “Paws: 2: 8: :8 £25 2: :2: cm

80: 2: 88: 30M 08 8%:3 2: :2: £083 3 ES89E mm 3
5:8: 89m :5 3 :8:

.288 on :8 mu: :5 nmhutmsv oquEkmm mo mammmaoo 25% BE.
.Eow 9: :8 x23 2: :3an ozmow 2: 3:0 5E3
“388 wEv—mbm 2: we owwo 2: .8 HEOQ m 8 Emma wEmomao 2:
83m mm :5 8.; a 6—88 wEu—mbm 2: SE 3% hum—mow 2: :9:
8:0 “8me >5... : .83 m5 :oEmwou 2...: E :8: x25 2: 8:3
8: Hsz a: .8808 2: mo £1: 8me w 3 .288 ~53 2: 08:3
8% 2: .8 E: 0on a 3:828 E :83 8:0 2: :5... £38 08
Juan 2: wEEzvow 28$ 8me m So mat—83 .8803 2: 8:5.
8 mm“: 2: 8953 E wEwumsw £23 2: mEVHEM .5 com 8: mm
EE: 3 38 i2: mEEEEEmQ £38m 2: :8 015mm 88 8?: 23.
9:80 2: mo Ewan: 0.58 2: gnu—Q m9: ESSA: wE>oH 2:. 8::

O

0

(Fold Along This Line)

888 2: we 0:6 «38:250 2: so 882.8% 83on o»: 2: 6::
888 2: :0 03m :30 E2: :0 885m 03: 2: .238 wEv—Em mE
E33? 993m 028m. BE. .3598: wEE: m E8 885w 95 nEEow a
6:838: 83on 95 Ho 3280 :83 some :0 23:55 Em 2:.

933

m ohm—ma
Aalnllltd. .Illrv

TN PSwEV .238: 8:83 a :8 Q8888: r Josh:
28:05:”: 3 :8: mm 8:: 5:83 < .283 a mo 83an 2:
wEKGBEE E Eu: 3 8:8 808%: m :3:me un— 58 @8808 Em mo
8m 8mm :88: 08 @8808 0335 8 63m m :0 E933 Em 08
22$. .80: 2: SE moaoE £3-28 :8 80m 853m 888m 2: :0
AB 2: ES 8:: moEoE 95 Scam mm :83 22. .830E 0395 :3
moaoE 039.3 688:8? 8:003 88 $388 2:. .25; E2 8on
33889 on 5:: 8 ome a: 368 :8 85% E: 8: 802::st

EQEEsvm

AA Samara 48:: :8 2: :0 8:: 39:: BE 2:
803$: 98 Emow EH. 48m 2: mo 8on E :883 “885$: E 88
3:: 6238 33:3 8 wEEbm 52% 95 08 «5:8: mmEv—HmE
Hmcomzwwm 3.8 2.: J88 =mauov~mmn SEE—$3 m Ea: .8wa

H 0.5th

.388 Sam. kwkw‘n

$45.3 Ft? 2. E
m:qu

0252".“
e

 

GERMAN LEADERS
Sm am a an W 5mm

Two HUNDRED German community
and youth leaders visited the United
States in 1949 and 1950 as a_ part of
the exchange program sponsored by
the United States Department of State.
The Youth Division of the National
Social Welfare Assembly planned and
directed the German Leadership Proj-
ect for the department and an advisory
committee of eighteen individuals,
most of them representing national
agencies,* assisted in the planning. A
number of the German visitors were
specialists in community recreation,
Sports and community centers.

Each was selected in Germany by a
committee of Germans and Americans.
_Following a two weeks’ orientation
program upon their arrival in the
United States, the visitors were as-
signed to various communities for
participation, observation and train-
ing under local agency executives.
Each leader was allotted ten dollars per
day to cover living costs, and major
traveling expenses were also met. In-
surance to cover the term of the visit
was provided for each of the leaders,
most of whom knew the English lan-
guage.

General objectives for the project
included the deveIOpment of favorable
attitudes toward Americans, d e m o -
cratic ways, education, youth work
principles, citizen participation and
cooperation between agencies. The
project aimed to give the visitors an
Opportunity to learn first hand about
the American way of life.

* MR. GEORGE D. BUTLER is acting as
representative for the National Recre-
ation Association.——-Ed.

MARCH 1951

 

The specific objective, for the rec-
reation and Sports leaders, was to af-
ford them an opportunity to observe

Recreation authorities who are
interested in the possibility of
having one or more German
leaders assigned to them in 1951
are advised to communicate with
the German Leadership Project,
Youth Division, National Social
Welfare Assembly, 134 East 56th
Street, New York 22, New York.

and study American recreation sys-
tems. It was hoped that this eXperience
would enable the visitors, Upon their
return to Germany, to enrich the pro-
g r a m of German communities a n d
training schools, to establish recre-
ation programs for all ages, sexes and
classes, to coordinate the resources
of voluntary and governmental agen-
cies, to broaden the existing sports
and physical education program and
to establish demonstration neighbor-
hood and community centers.

Local recreation departments coop-
erated with the project by‘ accepting re-
sponsibility for the guidance and train-
ing of one or more leaders for periods
varying from a few days to three
months. In a number of cities, visitors
assigned to a council of social agencies
Spent time in observing the work of
the local recreation department.

The success of this program in the
past two years has resulted in its ex-
pansion during 1951, when 14-8 Ger-
man leaders are expected to visit this
country. Thirty-five members of the

group will be concerned primarily
with community recreation, sports and
youth and community centers. Of this
number, fifteen are scheduled to spend
180 days in this country; the other
twenty leaders will remain ninety days.

Because it was believed that the ex-
perience of local recreation authorities
with the German Leadership Project
would be of interest to all persons con-
cerned with recreation and the better-
ment of international relations, sev-
eral executives were asked by the Na-
tional Recreation Association to com-
ment upon their experiences with the
German visitors in 1949 and 1950. The
statements submitted by these workers
reveal the mutual values resulting
from the project and include sugges-
tions for making such visits more ef-
fective. The nationwide sc0pe of the
project is illustrated by the variety, as
to population and geographic location,
of the cities reporting.

The specific activities in which the
German leaders participated, the reac-
tions to their visits and the values
gained are indicated by the statements
which follow. Unfavorable reactions,
recorded in a very few cities, were at-
tributed to the unwise selection of the
leaders, but most reports were favor-
able and indicated a willingness to en-
tertain visitors again this year.

G G G

Grant D. Brandon, Director of Rec-
reation, Lancaster Recreation Associ-
ation, Pennsylvania.r-0ur experience
with the project has been very satisfac-
tory. It proved an excellent way of
showing our European visitors not
only methods. but the more important

569

thing which we might call the real
spirit behind the recreation movement
in America. The local association, in
turn, was given a first-hand knowledge
of the fundamental differences between
the free spirit of self-determining de-
mocracy in action and the totalitarian
method of control.

Lancaster had the pleasure of wel-
coming a “sports teacher.” He was a
particularly likeable man, with a fair
command of English. We endeavored
to give him as great a variety of ex-
periences as possible during his three
weeks’ stay and, at the same time, not

 

to divorce him entirely from his own
language and people. The latter was
comparatively simple as the back-
ground of the community is German.

Our guest visited all of the educa-
tional institutions to witness the recre-
ation program, was asked to teach
some classes in German, and was a
guest at the Rotary Club and the Ger-
man Beneficial Society. He attended a
meeting of the recreation board and an
interracial meeting which he found
difficult to understand because of the
freedom of expression and the free and
friendly attitude between supervisor
and pupils, with very little demonstra-
tion of discipline.

He also attended an in-service train-
ing program sponsored by the State
Department of Public Service Insti-
tute and a three-day state recreation
conference. He was made welcome in
many homes, attended church services
and, wherever possible, was called
upon to express himself.

From letters received since his re-
turn to Germany we feel certain that
he not only learned much about our
American way of life, but also formed
lasting personal friendships here.

* * *-

Mrs. Theresa S. Brungardt, Ver-
mont Director of Recreation, De-
partment of Recreation, M ontpelier.—
Fourteen German youth leaders were
assigned to Vermont, and since Ver-

570

mont is a small state, it was possible
to give each leader an idea of state
government departments and their
close working relationship. The leaders
met the department heads, as well as
staff members, the governor and some

legislators. State leaders of 4-H,
YMCA, YWCA cxplained the work of

their organizations.

After spending time in the State
Recreation Office, reading reports and
studying material in our recreation li-
brary, each leader was assigned to a
recreation department where he
worked with the superintendent, ob-
serving, participating and helping with
activities, maintenance and so forth.

Arrangements were also made with
church groups, Boy and Girl Scouts,
Grange, PTA, service clubs and so on,
so that the leaders might have a gen-
eral idea of all services in a small
town which offer some form of recrea-
tion. Leaders also spent some time in
camps and attended area recreation
conferences, social recreation leader-
ship training demonstrations and
square dance institutes.

The various leaders were received
with enthusiasm and some even con-
tributed games and folk dances. Many
indicated that they had found in Ver-
mont practical ideas to transfer to
their own programs. Word has come
that the group of Bavarian leaders
have organized to work on program
ideas and experiences gained in Amer-
ica to strengthen their home programs.
A square dance group is being started
in Munich as a result of the Fairlee
Square Dance Institute; records were
taken back by several of the group.

4(- * 4(-

Russell J. Foval, Superintendent of
Recreation, Playground and Recreation
Board, Decatur, Illinois.—The Play-
ground and Recreation Board and staff
members were honored to have four
German students visit Decatur last sum-
mer and take part in the recreation
program. However, after we had taken
time to evaluate their visits, we ques-
tioned whether weiwould want to re-
peat the program another year. There
is apparently something lacking in the
method of selecting who shall come to
America and also in the orientation of
those who do come. 0f the four Ger-
mans visiting us, only one seemed to

have the proper background, training
and attitude for this kind of a visit. We
doubt if the other three will contribute
very much to their own people upon
their return to Germany. The same
three probably did more harm than
good in their relations with thc peOple
whom they met in our city . . .

These observations may sound a
little strong, but we were quite disap-
pointed in the type of people sent over
here. We think that a good job done
with a few is far more important than

a poor job being done with many.
* ‘l' *

Myron N. Hendrick, Director of

Recreation, Bureau of Parks, Niagara
Falls, New York.—I am very pleased
to hear that the German Leadership
Project is to be continued in 1951 and
hope that I will again be offered the
opportunity of cooperating.

It was with an open mind that I ac-
cepted responsibility last year, but the
sincere attitudes and eager thirst for
knowledge that sparked these young-
sters soon made me an enthusiastic
supporter. They made friends wher-
ever they were assigned, and proved to
he so willing to serve that every
agency working with them placed ev-
ery service at their disposal. They
proved good mixers and, although
careful to avoid controversial subjects,
were willing to discuss freely anything
asked of them.

It is my opinion that this project
does much to promote international
understanding and good will, and the
city of Niagara Falls stands ready to
welcome any others who may be as-
signed here.

‘I' * '3’

C. Evan Johnson, Recreation Com-
missioner, Newton, Massachusetts.—
The Newton Recreation Department
sponsored two German youths for the
month of September. I found these
visitors to be extremely interested and
interesting. We arranged for visits,
personal interviews and a period as—
signment at particular locations. We
requested that they make forthright
analyses and criticisms of what they
saw and did. We also asked that they
point up any values in our program
that might be useful in the develop-
ment of a community program when
they returned to Germany.

RECREATION

Newton was fortunate in having two
very capable representatives. We feel
that they learned much of the demo-
cratic system in recreation and in pub-
lic service generally. They were able
to understand that regimentation is
not our program and, that as a result,
we perhaps do not reach all the pe0ple
who should take advantage of recrea-
tion and leisure-time activities.

Unfortunately, our German visitors
were here during the quietest period in
our entire recreation program. How-
ever, they did have far better oppor-
tunity in September to visit many of
our community service divisions.

Active recreation departments will
probably gain more than they are
able to give if they continue to invite
these German leaders to their cities,
but they should specify the period

when their program is most active.
'l' ‘I' It

Thomas W. Lantz, Superintendent,
Public Recreation Commission, Ta-
coma, Washington—Tacoma, Wash-
ington, had one German youth leader,
aged twenty-seven, during the months
_of June, July and August, 1950. His
excellent personality made it easy for
him to get along well with everybody
he met. He was given the opportunity
of participating immediately in the
‘- summer playground leaders’ institute
and to lead games which he had
learned in his home country. Soon
thereafter, he actually acted as a play-
ground leader, in cooperation with
other leaders.

He also had a chance to observe the
physical education program of the
public schools, the older citizens’
clubs, women’s arts and crafts groups,
park and recreation facilities, aquatic
programs, recreation
housing projects, tournaments, folk
dance festivals and athletic leagues.

The YMCA took him to camp for a
the Camp Fire Girls, Boy
Scouts and Girl Scouts escorted him
to their camps for a day each; the
Boys’ Club director Spent a day with
him at his club; the YWCA and the
other agencies just mentioned ex-
plained to him the philosOphy of their
work. Actual participation in the meet-
ings of the Group Work Division of
the Tacoma Community Council, of

in low-income

week ;

the recreation commission and in play-

Msnr‘n 109's"!

ground leaders’ staff meetings were in-
teresting experiences for him.

He was intrigued with hospital rec-
reation and arrangements were made
for him to spend the day at the nearby,
large American Lake Veterans Hospi—
tal, as well as at the large Madigan
Veterans Hospital, Fort Lewis. I took
him into my home, spent hours with
him personally and, through this
method, gave him a better concept of
democracy in America.

The values gained by my depart-
ment were mainly that of feeling a
sense of contributing to his not—too-
well-formed conception of democracy
. . . He did contribute somewhat in
demonstrating German folk dances and
games, although the time was limited
for much of this kind of thing . . .

One youth leader is sufficient for a
city the size of Tacoma (140,000) be-
cause of the individual attention which
must be given. Make no mistake, the
job is not an easy one as it takes much
time and patience, but after the visitor
leaves, there is a great source of satis-
faction that one has sold him on the

American way of life.
* ‘I‘ *

Frank Lea/Ly, Director 0/ Recrea-
tion, Northfield, Vermont—The three

German youths were courteous, ob-

 

servant and made a most favorable
impression upon all the people in
Northfield to whom they were pre-
sented. I felt that their attitude, ac-
tions and comments helped immeasur-
ably in promoting better understand-
ing and good will in Vermont.

All three were impressed by the
manner in which Northfield had man-
aged to do so much with little finan-
cial sUpport and backing. They felt
that this type of project and program
was of benefit to them since it was
similar in nature to those with which
they would have to work upon return-
ing to Germany.

I feel safe in saying that everyone
here feels that if these fellows are

representative of German youth visit—
ing our country under the auspices of
the United States State Department,
the work they are doing here should
contribute a great deal to better rela-

tions and understanding between Ger-
mans and Americans.

* Q 5*

F. S. Mathewson, Superintendent of
Recreation, The Union County Park
Commission, Elizabeth, New Jersey.—
The experience of the staff of the
Union County Park Commission with
the German Leadership Project was a
delightful one. The leader sent to us
arrived for a four weeks’ stay on Au-
gust fourteenth and departed Septem-
ber tenth. During these twenty-eight
days and evenings, he was kept busy
visiting various groups and organiza-
tions, observing and discussing demo-
cratic procedures in community rec-
reation. A work schedule
pared in advance each week.

In addition to meeting with our
staff members and organizations, ar—
rangements were made for him to
spend an entire day with each of the
following: Summit Recreation Depart-
ment, Bayway Community House, Eliz-

abeth YMCA, Linden Recreation De-
partment, Elizabeth YM and YWHA,
Elizabeth Recreation Department and
other similar agencies. He gave splen—
did talks before the Plainfield Rotary
Club, Elizabeth Kiwanis Club and the
Union County Youth Welfare Council.

We arranged for him to observe
marine and bird life along the Jersey
coast. He also had an Opportunity to
participate in social activities with
young folks of his own age.

We learned much from our German
visitor, and his visit certainly tended
to create much good will between the
people of our respective countries. I
heartin endorse the program and urge
every recreation department to coop-
erate with it if given the opportunity.

I- I' I-

R. B. McCIintock, Superintendent,
Park and Recreation Commission,
Omaha, Nebraska—Our experience
with the German Leadership Project
was partially successful. but also indi-
cated a definite need for better organ-
ization and better screening of appli-
cants before they are permitted to
come to this country. We had two boys

was pre-

I.”

Dtl

in their early twenties—one an ex-
baron, one a labor representative.

I don’t believe that the younger boy
had any business being sent to Amer-
ica . . . He was a bitter Nazi and his
opinion of this country was very bi-
ased and extremely belligerent—so
much so that 'I don’t believe any im-
pression was made upon him . . . (A

report on his attitude and conduct, to
the New York office, resulted in his

being recalled from Omaha—Ed.)
The other boy had had the equiv-

alent of a high school education here,
but he had an extremely good attitude.
His mind was open and he wanted to
learn as many new ways of doing
things as possible. We felt that we
were really able to do a lot for him.

While in Omaha he attended two
summer school classes. He attended
our playgrounds, and spent a few days
at Boystown. He asked to be quartered
for a short time in a Negro home,
which was arranged. He attended
Scout meetings, visited the Scout camp
and made a trip to the national Scout
camp in Philmont, New Mexico. He
spent time in our home; and while
with another family, he made a week-
end trip to Estes Park in Colorado.

We arranged for him to take an en-
trance examination at Omaha Univer-
sity, which revealed the strengths and
weaknesses of his formal education.
He spent some time at the state capital
and helped the curator of the museum
to arrange and label German war rel—
ics. In fact, he fitted into the commu-
nity in a very admirable way and I
think that we were able to give him
something that would be very helpful
to him in his work with German youth.

a“ I- a

Martin M. Nading, In, Secretary
and Recreation Director, Department
of Public Parks, Fort Wayne, Indiana.
——I am glad to take this opportunity
to pass on what we consider to be a
very important factor in improving
the relationship between German and
United States peoples.

Two groups of German youth lead-
ers have visited Fort Wayne and Allen
County within the past three years.
First, there was a group of four lead-
ers; last summer, one youth, eighteen
years of age, visited us for two weeks.

The Group Work and" Recreation
572

Section of the Social Planning Coun-
cil of Allen County, along with the
county director of recreation and our
department,_ worked together to offer
our young German visitor every 0p-
portunity to visit activities we thought
he would find most interesting. We
prepared an agenda for his approval
and discussed it with him in detail.

First he visited the mayor and other
city and county officials. He observed
and participated in playground and
camp programs of the county, city,
Girl and Boy Scouts, as well as of the
YMCA and 4-H Clubs. He saw democ-
racy in action by attending a city
council meeting. 'He attended square
dances, softball games and other forms
of recreation in the evenings. He was
entertained by a German-American
group which was very helpful to him,
particularly in seeing that his week-
ends were not “void spots.”

We, in turn, learned a great deal of
the political and living conditions in
Germany, especially in West Berlin.
‘We gained- a better understanding of
German youth and youth problems . . .

* Ir *

Paul H. Rhode, Director, Commu-
nity Recreation Association, Dalton,
Massachusetts.———It is difficult to_ ex-
press, in' a few words, the many pleas-
ant experiences we had with the Ger-
man youth leaders who visited Dalton.
Five of them have visited our town on
different occasions during the past two
years to see the American way of life
in a community of five thousand in-
habitants. They were highly intelligent
young men, keen and observing.

Our public officials, business execu-
tives, professional men and community
leaders cooperated wholeheartedly to
give them an opportunity to see de-
mocracy in action. During two or three
weeks in our town, our new friends
received a broad education in affairs
of local government, education, indus-
try, recreation, home and religious
life, civic and social activities. They
did not hesitate to speak to groups
whenever called upon and their re-
marks were always well chosen. They
made many friends in Dalton.

To watch the facial expressions and
the great enthusiasm of these young
men, when seeing for the first time
such recreation sports as baseball,

golf, football and many other new
sights, was a most delightful experi-
ence—One that I personally wish to
recommend to everyone.

Just what our recreation department
gained from their visit is hard to state
except for the wide publicity given in
German newspapers about our recrea-
tion facilities and program and, most
important of all, the making of new,
and I believe, sincere friends across
the sea.

I am sure my committee will sup-
port me in saying that we are happy
to have had a small part in this proj-
ect which, in my opinion, cannot be
measured in terms of dollars and cents.
In a period of world crisis, the mak-
ing of new friends and an exchange
of ideas for better understanding are
of utmost importance for the creation
of international good will.

i * 'l'

E. S. Richter, Director of Parks and
Recreation, Pontiac, Michigan. -—-— Up
to date we have had three .men,
all of whom have been of very high
character and undoubtedly outstanding
leaders in their communities. They
were concerned about our method of
living, the informality of our social
relationships especially about
teacher-pupil relationship as reviewed
in the schools in our country. All
three showed a very keen interest in
our methods of planning program and
especially in the willingness of the
American people to allow participants
to assist in the planning process.

I feel that the German visitors have

and

made a distinct contribution to our
leaders through their participation in
our training sessions.

I‘ 'I *

Walter L. Scott, Director of M unici-
pal and School Recreation, Long
Beach, California—In Long Beach,
the two German visitors were given
opportunities for:

Orientation to the city and its homes,
industrial area, recreational organiza-
tions, local city government and public
education system.

Acquaintance with the cooperation
between community organizations,
with ,the various school and municipal
divisions of recreation, and with the
youth-serving agencies.

Observation of meetings of the city

RECREATION

council, recreation commission and the
recreation staff.

Excursions to points of interest; at-
tendance at special events typical of
the civic and cultural life of Southern
California; hospitality in homes of
various economic levels; attendance at
churches and church affairs.

Most important of all, the plans for
these two visitors were so integrated
that they became, not only in name,
but in fact, members of our recreation
staff, both in participation in activities
and in personal social relationships.

In regard to values which our city
and'recreation department gained from
their visit, we were reminded that, in
matters of cultural and racial rela-
tions, the American people have yet
far to go and that in this country there
is too much emphasis upon money
and material things.

We learned that humility is a vir-

MENTAL HYGIENE

tue generally practiced too little by our
American peeple and, that although
advanced in recreation facilities, we
lack the community interest which
makes activity spontaneous.

Our employees learned that we may
have falsely typified the German peo-
ple as arrogant or as seeking too much
power—that very definitely all German
pe0ple are not interested in warfare.

These visitors afforded examples of
the importance of the family in every-
day living and the enjoyment and hap-
piness which a family can have.

Lessons which the visitors stated
would be helpful to them upon return-
ing to Germany included:

That democratic living within the
family itself is a happier way of life
and that development of initiative on
the part of individuals and community
groups is important to the growth of
any community.

CUNGEPT

That, in Germany, they should at-
tempt to get more women interested
in community allairs; arrange for par-
ents to participate more as volunteer
leaders in youth work; make recrea-
tion facilities available to the general
public without necessarily being a
member of some sports club; arrange
for youth discussions as the basis of
planning for their own recreation; de-
velop more community spirit within
the churches; establish higher require-
ments for leadership training.

As a result of our experiences with
the German leaders, we would defi-
nitely recommend to other recreation
departments that they invite one or
more German leaders for a period of
not less than six weeks or two months.
The extra effort required to make ar-
rangements for these visitors is well
repaid by what they gain and what
they give us.

George S. Stevenson, M. D.

afzemmmwwgw

ECREATION is not the mere passing
B, of time as it is frequently consid-
ered by those who have given little
consideration to it. It is not merely
the bridging of an interim without
involving deeper personal changes.
Recreation is more positive than that.
It really recreates. It affects the indi-
' vidual deeply,
somewhat akin to
therapy, but is
more positive
than therapy.
Recreation is
pointed less
toward the cor-
rection of a dis-
0 r d e r t h a n
toward the ele-
vation of the quality of living. It is a
positive in its value. It gives satisfac-
tion through the exercise of talents,
akin to that obtained from creative
work. At the same time, the exercise
of talents strengthens and increases

 

t

Dr. Stevenson

 

DR. GEORGE S. STEVENSON is the medi-
cal director of the National Association

for Mental Health, New York, N. Y.
MARCH 1951

them and heightens the potential sat-
isfaction derived from their exercise.

The distinctive quality of recreation
is its permissiveness. It cannot be
forced, as can one’s vocation, although
it shares with the best of vocation the
element of spontaneity. It emerges
from a talent or drive within the indi-
vidual because it is spontaneous and
not forced. Recreational activity is tied
in closely with the talents and cravings
of a person. The very fact that this
tie-in is unconscious is a guarantee of
its reality. It is not subject to the er-
rors of design. Recreation is thus in
the best sense integrating. If, for ex-
ample, it involves large muscle activity,
it makes the functioning of these mus-
cles an integral part of the goals and
interest of the individual. In contrast
with this integration is the awkward
individual who has never become com-
fortable in the presence of activity of
these muscles. The same is true of
small muscle, sensory and ideational
functioning in recreation. Recreation
may be therapeutic, but that is a by-
product. Its goal is not therapy and
its therapeutic value is apt to be great-

est when the person is least conscious
of its therapeutic influence.

Recreation, far from being dispen-
sable in times of crisis, is more im-
portant than ever. Crises tend to stiffen
one’s defenses. They make one con-
servative. They stifle experiment and
exploration. They induce reaction and
reversion to less matured patterns of
behavior which may be random and
aimless in form, if not disintegrated or
disorganized, as “jitters.” Recreation
holds the individual together, keeps
him “acquainted” with, and gives him
a feel for, his powers and preserves
the wholeheartedness of effort which
reflects good internal integration. Since
play involves activities which are often
quite dillerent from those used in
one’s job and domestic responsibili-
ties, it tends to increase perspective.
One way in which every citizen can
aid in civilian defense is to shockproof
himself through play. It will not only
serve him well, but because demorali-
zation is contagious, it will favor his
neighbor as well. Recreation is not
killing time; it is an essential of ef-
fective living for everybody.

573

EXECUTIVE and
llllllllll llELA’l‘lENSllll’S

 

ECOMMENDATIONS defining the functions of the rec-
ll reation board and its administrator, and suggestions
for board procedures, were prepared by a workshop
group at the 1950 Midwest Recreation Executives’ Con-
ference. These recommendations, which, in part, were
based upon a statement worked out at the 1949 fall con-
ference of the Illinois Recreation Association, should
help in developing better relationships and attitudes be-
tween recreation board members and executives. The
recommendations, as approved by the workshop group,
are as follows:

The functions of the recreation board:

1. To formulate policies and objectives for the guid-
ance of the administrator and to follow through to
make sure that policies and objectives are carried out.

2. To employ a qualified administrator to execute
those policies.

3. To determine sound financial practices and con-
trols.

4. To determine criteria and to evaluate the entire
program in relation to the needs or requirements of the
community.

5. To establish regular monthly meetings with fixed
time and place. Minimum deviations from the schedule
should be the rule.

6. To keep informed in all matters pertaining to rec-
reation. Observance of other community recreation prac-
tices is also a medium for growth in recreation.

7. To act as a liaison between the executive, other gov-
ernmental agencies and the public.

The functions of the recreation administrator in rela-
tion to the above functions of the board:

1. To effectuate the policies of the board.

2. To prepare budgets, reports, personnel recommen-
dations, program plans and whatever other information
is required by the board to keep it well-informed.

3. To act as liaison between the board and the citi-
zenry and other public agencies; also between the board
and its employees.

4». To institute a program of in-service training de-
signed to improve the services of the recreation staff,
professional or volunteer, in performing their duties.

5. To interpret the policies and actions of the board
to the public in a favorable and intelligent manner.

The committee expressed the feeling that all recrea-
tion boards should be nonpartisan, pointing out that in
recent years public opinion has prevented political pres-
sure from dominating the services of the recreation
agency. This relates to situations wherein new city ad-

574

ministrations take over the reins of outgoing adminis-
trations as well as to those communities wherein the
administration succeeds in maintaining its.favor with
the electorate.

It is recommended that, when possible, the board
should be divided into functional committees, but such
committees should be established to study policy rather
than to carry on administrative functions. While the
practice of having a permanent advisory committee to
the board is not to be recommended, it is the feeling
that frequent consultation with experts in various fields
can help the board in solving special problems.

The recreation board should have rules and regula-
tions to govern meetings and actions. The presiding of-
ficer should follow proper parliamentary procedure. At-
tempted domination of the board should be controlled
by insistence on adhering to the bylaws, and/or state
laws governing the board’s actions. Annual reorganiza-
tion or evaluation meetings, as a part of regular prac-
tice, are to be highly recommended.

The board should have a minimum of three members
and a maximum of seven. It should not be mandatory
that the membership include a woman. It is recom-
mended that board members not be appointed to suc-
cessive terms, but that good board members be appointed
to serve again after an interval of one term.* A mem-
ber of the school and the park boards should be included
on the recreation board. Service as a meinber of a
board should be considered a civic function, and board
members should not receive remuneration, salary or
financial compensation.

Motivation and the interest of the board are most im-
portant to the success of the department and the pro-
gram. Good attendance can be maintained by skillful
leadership and direction of the chairman and by keeping
meetings brief and well-planned. The board should be
kept active through the use’of standing committees and
written notice of important problems and should be given
sufficient time to explore fully all issues.

The committee felt that future conferences should
stress the study of problems of recreation boards in
cities with city-manager forms of government.

*ONLY A small majority of the workshop group felt that
a board member should not succeed himself.

AGAIN IN 1950-’51

dmericaé gineét
- dthletic Equipment

is built by
®

P
for catalog, address:

Dept. R, W. J. VOIT RUBBER CORP.
1600 E. 251:: St.
los Angeles 11, Calif.

RECREATION

y!»

§

Dorothy M. Johnson

MARCH 1951

PERSON with a hobby naturally
A tries to sell the idea to anyone else
who appears to be a likely prospect.
The enjoyment of mine involves a
phonograph at times, and so I keep
an eye out for candidates who may
be willing to come over and change
records while I sit back and talk
learnedly (more or less) about what’s
on the records. For my interest is the
study of English and American folk
songs. I don’t trek over mountain
trails to dig them out in isolated set-
tlements; I just enjoy what other peo-
ple, with more patience and ingenuity,
have already dug out.

For teachers, I recommend folk-
song study. It’s a scholarly pursuit;
some of the songs still extant are off-
shoots from ancestors at least three
hundred years old. The people who
loved these songs and passed them
along through the generations were
not scholars; they were, for the most
part, illiterate. They simply wanted en-
tertainment or vicarious romance and
adventure or to pass the time while
they worked. Some of them were rich
and royal; most of them were poor.
The songs they sang, passed along
through oral tradition, seem to bring
those past generations closer to us.

My pursuit of this study takes in
both books and phonograph records
and involves some simple musical in-
struments as well. It wasn’t expensive
in the beginning; but lately I have
stopped buying folk-song books, no
matter how alluring they sound. The
classic collections are mostly out of
print, obtainable only through rare-
book dealers. If you can stay away

 

 

 

REPRINTED through the courtesy of
Business Education World, New York.

 

from the footnotes in other books,
you won’t be tempted in this direction.
lt’s really the footnotes that get you.
You find out what a folk song is, and
that a traditional ballad is a folk song
that tells a story. You find this dis-
covery disconcerting when you com-
pare definitions. Then you find your-
self questioning the opinions of schol-
ars on such fine points as communal
origin, and you delve into other books
to find out who is probably right.
When you chase down the fine-print
references and want those books, too,
the thing can cease to be a hobby
and can become an extravagance.
Then there are the records. I have
about two hundred now and am still
shopping. When I discovered that I
had four versions of Cruel Barbara
Allen, I became more watchful of the
contents of alluring record albums.
Once a month I decide never to buy
another: but, at this writing, I am
pining for Sir Patric Spens, Kitmon!
Willie, and The Wreck of the Old 97.
This business becomes highly per-
sonal and hard on the blood pressure.
When you trace one verse to wveral
apparently unrelated folk songs, you
are jubilant. ‘Vhen a radio announcer
casually calls some Tin Pan Alley hill-
billy concoction a folk song, you are
justifiably enraged. One of the identi-
fying points about a folk song is that
nobody knows who made it up. An-
other is that the song was for many
years passed on orally from one per-
son to another, not written down. 0h,
Susannah, for example, fits this sec-
ond specification but not the first,
because we know that Stephen Foster
wrote it.
You get all excited about identifying
traditional ballads; they are folk songs,

575

but they tell a story. Frankie and John-
nie is one; so are Casey Jones, Cruel
Barbara Allen, and Cowboy’s Lament.

The study doesn’t have to be passive.
Most of the newer collections include
music as well as words. Many English
folk songs are splendid for reading as
poetry, but the native American prod-
uct doesn’t stand up alone without the
music. When I bought Sandburg’s The
American Song Bag, I had to hunt up
people who had pianos and would let
me pick out the tunes. This led to
complications. Tiring of searching for
pianos, I bought an ocarina (polite
name for the shapeless and simple
musical instrument more often called
a sweet potato) and, to the dismay of
my neighbors, learned to play it in
order to find out what the music in the
book sounded like. But an ocarina has
a range of only one octave; so I
bought a recorder (also called a block
flute), because that has two octaves,
and learned to play that—after my
fashion.

There is a great deal of creative
satisfaction in learning a new skill.
It was good for my morale but hard
on my neighbors. From the recorder
I almost went on to an accordion, but
my family convinced me that a three-

WIN,
PLACE

or show

George Wilkins, carpenter at the Dobbs Ferry,
New York, plant of North American Philips Com-
pany, Incorporated, has a hobby horse—excuse

please—he has a horse hobby.
It all began in 1937 when George fell and broke ~

his back. During convalescence he much preferred
jackknife carving to knitting to while away the four
years he was confined to bed.

He loves horses and his collection now includes
racing breeds, mares and their colts, high kickers
and plugs, fashioned from teakwood, black walnut, ‘

white pine and maple.

576

octave pump organ would do just as
well. (Estey makes these for children,
but grown people can play them by
sitting far enough back to allow room
for the knees. The prewar price was
twenty-five dollars.) Now my three-
octave baby organ has been replaced
by a full-grown mahogany parlor or-
gan dating from early in the nine-
teenth century.

The trouble with this rather impres-
sive instrument is that my musical edu-
cation, mostly self—inflicted, doesn’t ex-
tend to playing two-handed. The ad-
vantage of instruments into which I
have to blow is that I can’t sing at the
same time.

Other people may collect stamps and
buttons but just show me, I demand, a
stamp or a button that will do any-
thing. Long-squering friends will look
at them if forced to do so, but only
collectors get enthusiastic.

Folk songs, I maintain, provide the
ideal hobby. The collector, in his hours
of solitude, can study his books and
fume about his footnotes. I have an
imposing cross-index card system that
probably will drive me mad.

The collector, when his friends come
over, can play records and drop
learned remarks about the incremental-

repetition theory as exemplified in
Hangman, Hangman, Slack Your
Rope, or explain what’s remarkable
about Jesse James and The Boll Weevil
Song. (What’s remarkable is that in
the two last ballads the author iden-
tifies himself within the ballad. In the
former, “This song it was made by
Billy Gashade”; in the latter, the orig-
inator was “a black-skinned farmer
with a pair of blue duckins on.”)

If the collector’s friends are musi-
cal, or even if they only think they are,
they will enjoy singing folk songs and
will discover to their delight that they
havé known a lot of them all along.
There will be sprightly arguments
about which version is “right,” and a
soothing answer from the collector that
every version is right. Folk songs
were, until modern civilization over-
whelmed them, passed along orally
and anybody could add or change any-
thing he pleased. “The little old log
cabin on the claim” turns up some—
times as “the little old sod shanty on
the plain,” and both are right.

Just show me a valuable stamp or a
rare button that can make music, start
arguments and get you into trouble
with the neighbors, and I’ll consider
changing my hobby.

 

RECREATION

HOW WE DO IT

Visual Aids In Bowling

In our bowling classes at Stephens College, the girls were
having trouble in putting angle on their bowling shots. A lot of
allcy was going to wastc and corner pins were staying put. They
also were having difficulty in picking up combinations and splits
which were left standing after their first ball had been thrown.

The instructor took her problems to the visual aids department
which made a series of eleven illustrative charts (five of which
accompany the article) to be strung up in the alley in full view.
The first chart numbered the pins in their correct position; an-
other showed the line a hook ball takes towards its destination;
others indicated the direction of the ball as it picks up common
splits and spares. To the girls these charts made sense. They found
the one depicting their particular problem and worked from there.

To supplement the charts, we have colored slides and a movie,
“Fundamentals of Bowling,” shown after a demonstration game
and after the girls have rolled a few balls on their own. This is
important, for the instructors have found that if the movie is
presented before preliminary bowling, the girls enjoy it but
learn little since they do not know’what to look for nor under-
stand the skill being demonstrated.

The chart and movie system at Stephens this past year, to-
gether with individual instruction, gave the students a back-
' ground for more advanced play. The advanced bowlers, girls
who do not enroll in the class but who bowl in dormitory tour-
nalnents, also profited from the charts. The student-faculty tour-
nament was a highlight of the year.

The bowling setup at Stephens is largely a matter of coopera-
tion. Many other schools may easily follow our example. The
charts can be made with little trouble and at little cost and the
movie can be ordered as visual aids equip1nent.———Wilma D.
Haynes, Stephens College, Columbia, Missouri.

Hand Tennis

Court—A paddle-tennis court and net are used. The court is
eighteen by thirty-nine feet in size; the net is two feet, four
inches high. On each side of the net and three feet from it,. a
line is drawn across the court parallel to the net, known as the
foul line. The service court lines used in tennis are not needed.

Ball—Any soft rubber ball which bounds freely may be used.

Teams—One or two players on a side.

Object of the Came—The object is to keep the ball in play by
batting it with either hand across the net, striking it either on

the fly or on the first bounce.
Serving—The ball is served from behind the rear line by drop-

 

REPRINTED through courtesy of The Journal of the American As-
sociation for Health, Physical Education and Recreation.

MARCH 1951

Know your pins

Straight bull

Hitting the 7 pin

Hitting tho 5 and 7 pins

Hitting the Sand 10 pins

 

 

ping it to the ground and batting it on the first bounce
over the net with an underhand swing. To be considered
an underhand serve, the ball must be below thc waist
when struck. Only one attempt is permitted. In case the
served ball hits the top of the net and goes over, it is
a “let” ball and is served again. The server continues
tO serve as long as he scores points; when he fails tO
score, he loses the serve.

In the doubles game, the side serving at the start of the
game has only one hand; when the first server is out, the
ball goes to the Opponents to be served. After this first
inning, both players on each side serve in succession be-
fore the ball goes tO the Opponents; that is, when one
player on the team is out, his partner serves.

Returning the Ball—The procedure is the same as in
lawn tennis. Players are not permitted tO step across the
foul line during play.

Scoring—Points are scored only by the serving side.
The serving side scores one point (1) when the Oppo-
nents fail tO return the ball over the net so that it strikes
the ground within the Opposing court; (2) when the Op-
ponents step over the foul line during play.

Failure Of the serving side tO return the ball, or step-
ping Over the foul line, puts the server out.

The game consists Of fifteen points. Two courts may
be used with nO differentiation between the service court
and the playing court on a side—Leona Holbrook, Brig-
ham Young University, Provo, Utah.

Serve-Ball

Serve-Ball makes a good, elementary game in which
tO introduce the use of the volleyball and some of its ele-
mentary skills. It may be played upon a volleyball court
or upon a similar area. Serve-Ball can be adapted to
various facilities, age groups and sizes Of groups, vary-
ing from four to twenty on a team. Game techniques Of
several sports are applied—such as the volleyball serve
and a form of rotation; innings and teams in the field and
at bat, using softball batting order; and a situation which
provides children with an Opportunity to practice their
throwing and catching skill. To make the game move

faster, the team at bat can line up in single file a safe
distance behind the server.

The server tries to serve the volleyball into any one
Of the three scoring areas from a place outside the play-
ing area. If the ball lands on the floor in the area marked
“0,” it is out; in the area marked “1,” one point is
scored; in the area marked “2,” two points are scored;
and in the area marked “3,” three points are scored. The
server not only tries tO send the ball into the farthest area
to make a higher score, but also serves the ball as fast as
he can so that it is harder tO catch. The fielders in their
respective areas try tO catch the ball before it touches
the floor, thus putting the server out.

Rules

1. One team is in the field and one at bat.

2. The team in the field rotates one place following
each out. Number 1 goes to the left back court.

3. The team at bat has three outs and then retires to
the field.

4. The serving order on the team does not change. At
the beginning of each inning, serving begins with the
serve Of the one next in order tO the last one making an
out.

5. The server serves from a place marked ust outside
the playing area.
6. The server has one turn. He either scores or is out

(except as indicated in Rule 9). The server fgoes to the
end Of the serving line following his turn.

7. An out is made when: the ball is served in the
area marked “0”; the ball is caught by a fielder; the
server misses the ball; the ball is served out-of-bounds.

8. The fielder must catch the ball in his area; other-
wise it is not an out and a score is made.

9. If a fielder blocks, but does not catch, the ball in

the area marked “0,” it does not count as an out for
the server. The serve is taken over.

10. The ball scores wherever it lands in the playing
court. However, if a fielder fumbles or knocks the ball
out-Of-bounds, the server receives the point value for
the area in which the particular fielder plays.

11. The game may be set for any number Of even
innings.—0risa Lanan, Northern Michigan College Of
Education, Marquette,_ Michigan.

 

United Defense Fund, Incorporated

"m ‘3‘

 

0

r" '

578

(Left to right.) President Truman congratulates E. A.
Roberts, Ralph Blanchard and Secretary Of the Navy
Francis Matthews, at the White House, on establishment
Of United Defense Fund, Incorporated. Mr. Roberts,
president of Fidelity Mutual Life Insurance Company, is
president of the UDF. Secretary Matthews is vice-presi-
dent and Mr. Blanchard, executive director. Organized
by the National Social Welfare Assembly and Community
Chest and Councils of America, the new UDF is a fed-
eration of thirteen national agencies for the financing of
their emergency appeals, similar to the national war fund
of World War II. Services to receive support from the
fund fall into two groups at present—those c'oncerned
with services to the armed forces, and communities con-
gested by the national defense effort. The National Rec-

reation Association is represented in both groups. ‘

RECREATION

Just Around the Corner

State, county, metropolitan and mu-
nicipal park and recreation agencies
can draw much favorable public atten-
tion to their facilities, services and
needs by means of National Park and
Recreation Week. Here is a project
that dramatically presents to the public
a composite picture of the vast re-
sources for enjoyment, health and gen-
eral welfare provided by these agencies
in the United States and Canada.

Richmond, Virginia

Since its inception in 1949, many

communities have staged effective

demonstrations, exhibits and special
events during Park and Recreation
Week. Last year, for example, Rich-
mond, Virginia, obtained the coopera-
tion of Boy and Girl Scouts, Parent-
Teacher Associations, American Le-
gion posts, civic and businessmen’s as-
sociations in order to prepare a varied
recreation program for all age groups
in the community. Under the direction
of the Department of Recreation and
Parks, talented Richmondites as well
as professional performers participa-
ted in activities ranging from a spec-
tacular water ski carnival and an excit-

Recreation Leadership Training Programs 1951

(List continued from February RECREATION)

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION

Mid-Continent Regional Park Thomas Resac or

Joe Crunz
Faribault, Minnesota

Frank H. Smith
Berea College

Box 1826
Berea, Kentucky

James Taylor
University Methodist Church

St. Luke’s Methodist Church Tulsa, Oklahoma

Box 491

DATE LOCATION
March 30-31
and Recreation Conference
Faribault, Minnesota
April 5-7 Mountain Folk Festival
Berea College
Berea, Kentucky '
April 9-13 South Central Recreation
Workshop (Methodist)
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma
April 19-26 Ihduhapi Recreation

Leader Laboratory
Loretto, Minnesota

April 29 - May 5 Buckeye Recreation
Workshop

Congregational Church
Cuyahoga Falls, Ohio

April 30 - May 4. Northwestern Recreation
Workshop (Methodist)

Le Grande, Oregon

Minneapolis 1, Minnesota

R. Bruce Tom
Cooperative Extension Service

Ohio State University
Columbus, Ohio

Harlan Jones, Chairman
College of Puget Sound
Tacoma, Washington

April 30 - May 5 Leisurecraft and Counseling Harold Halfyard

Camp

4~H Memorial Camp

Monticello, Illinois

MARCH 1951

Methodist Church

Cisco, Illinois

S Park and Recreation Week
I May 27 t0 [mze 2

ing tennis tournament to family play
days held on all of the city play-
grounds and nature tours through the
city of Maymont. Two local depart-
ment stores, two sports stores, a
bottling company and the state depart-
ment of conservation and development
helped pay for suchevents as concerts,
ball games, picnics, puppet shows, a
square set hoe-down, an Elizabethan
theatre version of William Shake-
speare’s Twelfth Night and an Ameri-
can folk operetta. An estimated total
of 111,150—including participants and

spectators -— enjoyed the observance.

Akron, Ohio

In Akron, Ohio, 3 mimeographed
bulletin, “Do You Know the ABC’s of
Recreation in Akron?,” was distrib-
uted in order to familiarize citizens
with the history, administrative back-
ground, expenditures and essential
needs of the recreation department.
Another pamphlet, “Fun for the Fami-
ly in Akron,” gave an illustrative
bird’s-eye view of the year-round rec.-
reation program being offered.

In addition, during the celebration,
tennis tournaments, baseball and soft-
ball games, band concerts, handcrafts
exhibits and official speeches by the
mayor, park and recreation executives
helped to show Akronites the facilities
and opportunities available.

Now Tell Us Your Story

Next year, we would like to be able
to publish the story of how your com-
munity celebrated National Park and
Recreation Week. Please tell us what
special observance plans were made.
What publicity was given to these
events? How many pe0ple participated
and how many spectators were attract-
ed? What other agencies. depart-
ments or groups cooperated? What fa-
cilities were used?

These are but a few of the ques-
tions you will be able to answer so
that other park and recreation leaders
may profit from your experience.

579

 

Bella-Hoop

“ D e s i g n e d for the playground;
priced for the playground” are the by-
words of the J. A. Brandt Company,
PO. Box 30, Steelton, Pennsylvania,
manufacturers of Rolla-HOOp.

Directed towards reviving the old-
fashioned pastime of hoop play, the
Rolla-Hoop is sturdily constructed of

 

three-eighths-of-an-inch round solid
steel, is twenty-four inches in diameter
and zinchrome plated. A permanently-
attached handle prOpels and guides the
h00p along its way. This interesting
piece of playground equipment sells
for $9.60 per dozen and may be pur-
chased directly from the maker.

Screen Scriber

Especially designed for lecturers,
demonstrators and teachers, Screen
Scriber is a new overhead projector
which permits the speaker to face his
audience and give a clear picture of
any type of visual material he Wishes
to present. The price is $57.50 f.o.b.

A light beam from the projector is
cast backstage, creating a brilliant
image of the photographic transpar-
ency or drawing projected. The screen
size of the image at fifteen feet is eight
feet by ten feet and can readily be
seen by an audience of twenty-five
hundred. Another feature is the quick-
focusing ability of the unit to suit the
requirements of a small room or a
large auditorium. Stereopticon slides

‘580

and Kodachrome transparencies are
projected with excellent definition;
while the use of the accessory black-
coated film permits the dramatic cre-
ation of drawings and diagrams made
by the lecturer while he talks.

Screen Scriber is simple in Opera-
tion; it can be set up for use in one
minute and packed away as quickly.
Weighing less than seven pounds, it
is completely portable.

Bardwell and McAlister, Incorpo-
rated, of Burbank, California, are the
manufacturers.

Speed Nuts

Hobbyists and other home mechan-
ics may now take advantage of the
unique fastening possibilities of Speed
Nuts, manufactured by Tinnerman
Products, Incorporated.

_ These fasteners are mailed in a tink-
er kit in popular sizes along with
matching screws and bolts. Made of
heat-treated spring steel, they may be

 

used to replace threaded nuts and lock
washers on bolts and tap screws—in
addition to serving more than one hun-
dred other home repair and crafts
needs. Once fastened, Speed Nuts stay
firmly in place.

Costing one dollar, postage in-
cluded, the tinker kits may be obtained
from Tinnerman Products, Incorpo-

rated, Department 14, Box 6688,

Cleveland 1, Ohio. Inside cach kit isl
an order blank which may be mailed
for Speed Nut refills in any quantity.

New Stereoscope :

A lightweight, convenient stcreo-
scope, small enough to lit into a pocket I
or purse, and providing educational
entertainment for children and adults
both at home and while traveling, is
one of the new products of the Bake-
lite Division of the Union Carbide
and Carbon Corporation. The new de-
vice, molded of sturdy Bakelite phe-
nolic, weighs only four ounces and
has no moving parts to get out of
order. Available from Stori-Views,
3312 Lindell Boulevard, St. Louis 3,
Missouri, it sells for about $1.50.

Cards b e a ri n g the stereoscopic
transparencies in full colors, showing
a wide variety of nature, travel and
Bible scenes and bearing printed de-
scriptions of the scenes, sell for fifty
cents for a set of six scenes, two dol-
lars for an album of twenty-four, and
one dollar for a set of twelve fairy
tale scenes illustrated with Specially-
created puppets.

RLM Lighting Check List

Publication of a new, four-page bul-
letin, Number 1050, containing a com-
plete listing of all RLM manufacturers
and the certified lighting equipment
made by each, is announced by the
RLM Standards Institute, 326 West
Madison Street, Chicago 6, Illinois.
Described as “an indispensable aid to
everyone who buys, sells, recommends
or specifies lighting equipment,” copies
of this bulletin are available without
charge from the institute to recreation,
commercial and industrial executives,
architects, lighting specialists and
others.

Feature of “How to Specify RLM
Labeled Lighting Units” is a well-or-
ganized, easy-to-use chart which en-
ables the reader to determine quickly:
1) whether or not a certain size and
type of lighting unit is ELM-certified;
2) the names and addresses of all man-
ufacturers who make RLM -labeled
units of the type and size desired; and
3) those lighting units not yet certi-
fied, but in the process of being in-
spected and tested by the electrical
testing laboratories.

RECREATION

W. C. Sutherland

P E R S 0 N N E L

 

Job Situation

In general, the demand for profes-
sional workers was stronger in 1950
than for the preceding year. There was
continued difficulty in finding recrea-
tion superintendents for the smaller
communities. These positions require
a variety of talents characterizing the
administrator, community organizer,
program supervisor and leader. Fre-
quently the salaries in the small com-
munities are not particularly attrac-
tive and the general working condi-
tions are not always satisfactory. Dur-
ing the year, seventy—three per cent of
the executive positions filled were in
communities of twenty-five thousand

‘population and under. Fifty-seven per

cent of these positions were in com-
munities of fifteen thousand and un-
der. The shortage of personnel is in-
creasing, resulting, in part, from the
war situation. A few local workers
have been called for military, necessi-
tating replacements. Also, the increased
demand for workers in such fields as
hospital recreation has drawn off what
otherwise might be a part of the per-
sonnel surplus. There is increasing evi-
dence that more of our professional
workers will be called soon for military
service which will complicate the sit-
uations in many local communities.

Training
Training programs, in general, have
been increased and intensified. More
attention has been given to local in-
service training programs, and several
cities have provided special projects

 

W. C. SUTHERLAND is the director of

the NRA Recreation Personnel Service.

MARCH 1951

for apprentices. The number of col-
leges and universities offering recrea-
tion courses has increased. The train-
ing sessions held at the National Rec-
reation Congress in Cleveland showed
increased attendance over other years.

A National Conference on Graduate
Training, held at Pere Marquette State
Park in Illinois, has supplemented the
National Conference on Undergrad-
uate Training, held in 1948. The spe-
cial committees for these two national
conferences have been consolidated
into a continuing committee which has,
as one of its major objectives, the pro-
motion of more local, state and re-
gional training conferences. The pur-
pose of these activities is the improve-
ment of professional education and
preparation for recreation leadership.

Recreation training courses in col-
leges leading to bachelor’s and grad-
uate degrees have increased consid-
erably in recent years. It would be
helpful to the recreation movement as
a whole to have a record of the extent
of these offerings.

A number of colleges have submit-
ted information which has been kept
up-to-date in the association’s library.
We hope that others will feel free to
report new courses when they are in-
troduced or advise when adjustments
are made in existing curriculums.

The association would be pleased to
receive not only the curriculum as it
is printed in the school catalog, but
also copies of individual course out—
lines when they are available. It is in-
creasineg important to know more
about the content of individual courses.

The colleges could help in another

way, too, by keeping the association
informed of the number of students
graduating each year with undergrad-
uate and graduate degrees in recrea-
tion. Our recruiting plans could be
worked out more effectively with this'
advance information. New prOSpects
should be registered two to three
months prior to their availability.

Salaries

Salaries continued to increase dur-
ing 1950. However, there is still room
for improvement, particularly with ref-
erence to staff workers. Of the execu-
tive positions known to have been
filled during the year the median sal-
ary was four thousand dollars; the
range, three thousand to seven thou-

sand two hundred dollars. One of the

urgent needs for the future is the im-
provement of working conditions in
general, including more acceptable sal-
ary standards.
Recruiting

With the decrease in the number of
workers available, recruiting programs
have been increased. Local depart-
ments will need to conduct more vig-
orous recruiting programs and their
positions will need to be made more
attractive in order to secure qualified
and capable workers. There is increas-
ing evidence that a definite relatiOn-
ship exists between the availability of
workers with professional qualifica-
tions and the rate of pay in the field.

Recreation executives, other profes-
sional workers and friends of the rec-
reation movement should continue to
encourage qualified candidates to reg-
ister with the association’s recreation
personnel service.

581

How To Do lT‘ll hg M Moo

Make old lin boxes and lrags beauliful and useful 0
Malerials needed °

Fine sleel woolo Hal black painl
Nylon blocking a Clear varnish
Tracing clolh a Varnish brush
Ragor lolade ° Camel hair brush

Velvel clolh a Silver powder
Velour 0 Gold powder ."...-‘
To Do lT ll 9 - .
l.Dro.w designoCUl‘ slencil " use ragor blade or S‘lencil knife.
2.Clean lin- use Oakileaslronq solulion in boiling waler.

“JG/W 3.Painl‘ lwo coals Hal black.
= / (\\ 4oTo applq slencil °lhin coal
clear varnish usinq nqlon sloclcinqo
when almos’t drg pul slencil in place»
apply powder usinq velvel on linqero
50 Remove slencil carefuqu a
"Q0sl GoApplg coal clear varnish afler
powder has dried lwenlq -Four hours .
79T0 qiue smoolh sol’r finish l‘o surlace applq several
coals oi varnishoallow each coal lo drq 24* hours«
sleel wool each coal lithlq l’o remove qloss o
Nole‘; Allow each coal Hal black lo drq 24- hours .
5lecl wool each cool flal blO-Cko Transparenl oil
color mixed wi‘lh clear varnish can be applied over
powder design aller firsl coal‘ of varnish o
Velour is used as pale’d‘e To hold powders.

  
 

 
     

582 RECREATION

Ruth Garber Ehlers

CHNVEN’I‘IM “BREA’I‘IIERS”

“ow OFTEN WE HAVE ENTERED the convention hall, or
any other meeting, feeling fresh, rested and ready for
“come what may.” How enthusiastically we have greeted
each new personality as he appeared on the platform to
expound deep and pertinent facts. But just how long are
we physically able to hang on to every word and apply
its full meaning? This depends upon many factors—such
as the chairs we occupy, our physical condition and the
speakers’ abilities to help us forget ourselves. Regardless
of how important or impressive the speech, the brain
can absorb only as much as the body can endure—hence,
the following “lifesavers.” These are short, simple de-
vices for the recreation leader who is called to the plat-
form to give the audience a “break,” a “stretch” or a
“breather.”

1. A song with a “down-beat.” (Audience standing.)

If arms should be rested while the legs are stretching,
invite the audience to beat their own time to the music.
Down, over, back and up if the tune calls for four beats.
If arms are on the stiff side, a little urging from the
5 leader will help everyone to relax and have fun “leading
the singing.” Remember—use an old, well-known song.

2. Balloon bat. (Audience standing.)

For a little action, turning, stretching and excited
laughter, toss a few balloons to the audience. To the tune
of I’m Forever Blowing Bubbles, members bat the bal-
loons from one to the other. Penalize anyone who per-
mits a balloon to touch the floor. At the end of the song,
ask those who have the balloons to bring them to the
platform. If there is time, ask them to participate in a
funny stunt and give the audience a good hearty laugh.

3. Up-out-forward and down. (Audience standing.)

To the tune of Anchors Aweigh or a similar march,
lead the group in the following exercise:

Arms up-eight counts.

Arms out—eight counts.

Arms forward, palms facing—eight counts.

Arms down, slapping thighs—eight counts.

Do not be satisfied with half-hearted response. Urge
everyone to stretch to the limit in each direction.

4. Quiet relaxation. (Substitute for a cat nap.)

Ask the pianist to play soft dreamy music—Serenade
by Franz Schubert; Song of India by Rimski-Korsakov;

 

MRS. RUTH G. EHLERS is one of the members of the lead-
ership training staff of National Recreation Association.

b MARCH 1951

Anton Rubinstein’s Melody in F; Elegie by Jules Mas-
senet and so forth.

Ask the audience to stand, relax completely, close
eyes, drop head forward and, as the music plays, roll
head to the right. Then change and roll to the left. Ask
everyone to face right. With eyes closed again, begin
with the relaxing of the head, then shoulders, trunk, until
the body is bending forward and down as far as possible,
with arms dangling. Have them remain in this position
for a moment or two.

Change the music to something more spirited—such as
Humoresque by Anton Dvorak. When the music changes
the mood, everyone lifts his trunk, then shoulders, then
head to a straight, standing position, very slowly, then
stretches his arms over his head as tall as possible. (If
people yawn, it was very successful. This will completely
rest them, if they let themselves go.)

5. Looby-Loo—singing-action song. (Audience stand-
ing.) Lead the group in this well-known singing-action
song. Instead of moving in a circle, ask everyone to clap
hands and stamp feet during chorus.

(Reference, Twice 55 Songs with Music, available
from the National Recreation Association. $.25.)

6. Audience on ' parade. (March music—old-tinle
tunes.)

If facilities permit, this is real fun and appreciated
by a tired audience. It is used most successfully when
chairs are in rows, with aisles at both sides of the room.

Directions: Ask the people in alternate rows to face
to the right or to the left.

Everyone puts one hand upon the shoulder of the
person in front of him. The leader goes down the out-
side aisle and to the back of the room until he is behind
the last one in the line. They all march between the chairs
until everyone reaches his original place.

This can be done with great success at banquets to
raise the spirit curve and to give the guests a touch of
gaiety. Inspire the guests to sing as they march to such
tunes as She’ll Be Comin’ Round the Mountain, The Old
Cray Mare, college songs and so forth.

Even the most dignified will enjoy this parade if the
march is under control at all times.

Make a collection of similar entertaining and relaxing
stunts to have on hand whenever needed; be an ever-
ready recreation leader to come to the rescue of a tired

and patient audience.

583

THREE To SIX: YOUR CHILD STARTS To
SCHOOL, James L. Hymes, J r., Public
Affairs Pamphlet Number 163, Pub-
lic Affairs Committee, New York,
New York. $.20.

LET’S LISTEN To YOUTH, H. H. Rem-
mers and C. G. Hackett. Science Re-
search Associates, Chicago, Illinois.
$.40. Three copies for $1.00.

HELPING YOUTH CHOOSE CAREERS, J.
Anthony Humphreys. Science Re-
search Associates, Chicago, Illinois.

$.40. Three copies for $1.00.
SELF-UNDERSTANDING -— A FIRST STEP
TO UNDERSTANDING CHILDREN, Wil-
liam C. Menninger, M.D. Science
Research Associates, Chicago, Illi-
nois. $.40. Three copies for $1.00.
SCHOOL SUBJECTS AND JOBS, Lester J.

Schloerb. Science Research Associ-

ates, Chicago, Illinois. $.40. Three
copies for $1.00.

    

rubber-covered

  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
  

uihleiic bulls

YOu can depend upon famous

Wilson INDESTRUCTO
Rubber Covered Athletic Balls
to give the acme in performance
and the maximum in long life.
N 0 rubber covered balls

made can outwear them—

or give more satisfactory
service in any way. Sold by
leading sporting goods

dealers everywhere.

 wwwn

TODAY lN SPORTS EQUIPMENT

GYM EQUIPMENT

0 Gymnasium Equipment
0 Telescopic Gym Seats

0 Basketball Scoreboards

0 Basketball Backstops

0 Steel Lockers, Lockerobes
and Grade-Robes

70m 54» My
FRED MEDART PRODUCTS,INC.

3566 DE KAlB ST. ST. EOUIS l8, M0.

Wilson Sporting Goods (20., Chicago
Branch offices in New York, San Francisco
and 26 other principal cities |

{A subsidiary of Wilson 6. Co., lncJ ‘

For 78 Years
The Standard Of Quality

584

 

Magazines and Pamphlets

 

PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN THE SCHOOL
CHILD’S DAY, Simon A. McNeer
and Elsa Schneider. Federal Secu-
rity Agency, Washington, D. C.
$.30.

SHELLCRAFT INSTRUCTIONS, Cleveland
Crafts, Cleveland, Ohio, $.25.

TOOLS FOR THE TASK, Alden Eberly
and Sonja M. Baker. Association
Press, New York. $1.00.

SRA YOUTH INVENTORY, FORM A. Sci-
ence Research Associates, Chicago,
Illinois.

TELLING THE WELFARE STORY. State
Committee on Children and Public
Welfare, State Charities Aid Asso-
ciation, New York City, New York.
$.50.

SIXTEEN SINGING CALLS, Rod La
F arge. Rod, La Farge, Paterson,
New Jersey. $.50.

GARDEN STATE SQUARE DANCES, Rod
La Farge. Rod La Farge, Paterson,
New Jersey. $1.00.

How To SQUARE DANCE, Rod La
Farge. Rod La Farge, Paterson,
New Jersey. $.25.

RECREATION AND LEADERSHIP MOVE-
MENT. Seventeenth Annual Report.
Sydney, Australia.

IT’S WISE T0 SUPERVISE, Alan Klein
and Irwin Haladner. C a n a d i a 11
Camping Magazine Company, To-
ronto, Canada. $.50.

CANADIAN CAMPING, December
1950. Oliicial Publication of the Ca-
nadian Camping Association, To-
ronto, Canada. $.25. _

SKIING . . . HOW TO TEACH AND OR-
GANIZE IT, Ruth L. Elvedt. Burgess
Publishing Company, Minneapolis,
Minnesota. $1.00.

OFFICIAL DARTBALL RULES. Complete-
ly revised———1950-1955. The Wis-
consin State Dartball Committee,
Milwaukee, Wisconsin. $.25.

COOPERATION IN FORESTRY. United

States Department of Agriculture.

Washington, D. C. $.20.

GOOD SCHOOLS DON’T JUST HAPPEN!
Science Research Associates, Chi-
cago,l Illinois. $.10. 100 or more
copies, $.051/2 each. Single copies
free to educators.

RECREATION

 
   
  

       
   
  
  
 
    
  

r 1'

aim--

’ 5W “Jug-'1‘“ w

ATHLETIC sump}:

rs! Cboice

for

6 very Sport!

Available
Thru Leading
Athletic Goods

Distributors

nv Inv'ts'r IN 1w: rune .I
HANUFIC'UIING COM'IN' I 5! lou's 3 M0.

   

Enioy Summer School
in the Cool. Rockies at the
UNIVERSITY oi COLORADO

1951 Summer Session

Recreation Leadership Worksh0p
July 23 to August 24

under the direction of
Harold Meyer, University of North Carolina, assisted

by members of the resident staff of the University of
Colorado and a member of the staff of the National

Recreation Association.

Courses in—Community Recreation, Social Recreation,
Community Singing and Dramatics, Western Square
and Round Dance, Problems and Trends in American
Recreation. Wide choice of courses in related fields.
Lectures, Concerts, Square Dances, Mountain Recrea-
tion, including hikes, steak fries, automobile excur-
sions, and pack trips, are special features of the

Summer Session program.

For further information and bulletin, write to:
Director of Summer Session,

312 Macky, University of Colorado,
Boulder, Colorado.

Name

St. and No

 

 

City, State—.__.____._——-——-———--‘—-- -

MARCH 1951

 

~— I
, , ulutmaanmsart

 

HIGHEST B. A.
IN MAJORS

HOME RUN KING

he right “know
 -' how” and the

 right equipment always

K " produces the right re-
sults. This season take your

cue from the champs and

l  hit with a Louisville Slugger.

 
   
      
    

Il'r- are glad In arth it. _ M
you fm- mpiue Hf tlu'a “ _,
famous annual far your
tram numb”: iddrl'n.‘

Dept. R.

I,

06‘“;

   

SLUGGER BATS

FOR BASEBALL 8. SOFTBALL

 

.86

ynedaww "——

(name; ifl'l’S

 

just Revised .’

BASEBALL:

Individual Play and Team
Strategy

3rd Edition

by John W. "Jack" Coombs
Head Coach of Baseball, Duke University

This famous handbook for the coach, player, and
student of baseball has just been revised to con-
form with the newly established playing and
scoring rules. The 3rd edition continues to cover
every conceivable phase of individual and team
play, as well as business management and team

organization. New with the revision are these
features:

0 Discussion of plays in line with rules newly

laid down by the Professional Playing Rules
Committee.

0 Section on official scoring revised to conform

with new rules set up by the Scoring Rules Com-
mittee.

o Valuable information on how to lay out a base-

ball diamond.

. The “Treatment of Injuries” section brought
up to date.

350 pages illustrated 5'/2"x 8"

Published Last August —

The Art of
Officiating Sports

By John W. Bunn, Springjield College;

and others

Here is a new book that fills a real need as
a guide for sports officials and administra-
tors of sports programs, and as a text for
courses in sports officiating. First, the book
builds a sound philosophy to serve as a
general foundation for officiating any sport.

It then applies basic principles to the actual
officiating of a variety of specific sports.

388 pages illustrated 5 V2“): 8 V2“

Sendfor your copies today!

PRENTICE-HALL, Inc.

70 Fifth Avenue New York 11. N.Y.

 

 

new Publications

Covering the

Leisure-time Field I

Our Eastern Playgrounds
Anthony F. Merrill. Whittlesey House, McGraw-Hill
Book Company, Incorporated, New York. $3.75.

THIS DETAILED GUIDE is designed exclusively for motor-
ists. With state by state listings, photographs, maps
and precise touring instructions, it tells where to go—
for camping, hunting, fishing, swimming, picnicking—
for long and short trips. All lucky people planning their
vacation on the Eastern seaboard in the out-of-doors
should study this 350-page book—~and take it along.

It’ll make that vacation easier and more fun!

Ceramics for All

.I. A. Stewart. Barnes and Noble, Incorporated, New
York. Paper bound, $1.00; cloth, $2.00.

ERAMICS has suddenly become a very pOpular hobby,
C and amateurs are studying it both for fun and
profit. This detailed, ISO-page handbooki contains all
the essential information, plus many fine points that
mean the difference between art and mediocrity. The
chapters on firing, glazing and the kiln are particularly
informative, and craftsmen will appreciate the plans for
a home-made kiln.

Arts and crafts teachers in schools and community
recreation programs, as well as amateur craftsmen, will
find this book an important addition to a somewhat
limited field—and will also be grateful for its reason-
able price.

Power Tools and How to Use Them

W. Clyde Lammey. Popular Mechanics Press, Chicago
11, Illinois. $2.50.

raftsmen and hobbyists will find many challenging
C projects in this guide to the selection and operation
of home-workshop machines. Latest book in the P0pu1ar
Craftsman’s Library series, it features the practical ap-
proach to the basic power tools—including woodwork-
ing power tools, metal working power tools and many
other lightpower machines which have been specially
built for the home hobby room.

Some of the projects suggested are so simple that
they can be constructed merely by following the clear
step-by-step illustrations or the scale drawings and dia-
grams which decorate each page. Other projects are
more intricately detailed to tax the skill of the seasonal

craftsman, but also utilizing materials readily available.

Especially helpful, too, is the where-to-buy-it directory
for all kinds of tools and supplies. In fact, everyone
actively interested in toolcrafts will find this book a
very handy addition to his reference library.

RECREATION

