 

 

   

RECREATION

is one of tbe fields in which
SCHOOL ACTIVITIES

has been serving the schools of America
for twenty years. Under the editorship of
Dr. Harry C. McKown, well-known au-
thority on extracurricular activities, this
monthly magazine promotes the following
interests:

ACTIVITY PROGRAMS — Current thought of leaders in the field of democratic group activitics.
SCHOOL ASSEMBLIES — An assembly program for each week of the school year.

CLASS PLAYS — Help in selecting and staging dramatic productions.

CLASS ORGANIZATIONS —- Directions for the successful guidance of school groups.
FINANCING ACTIVITIES — Suggestions for financing student functions.

ATIILETICS — News and ideas on late developments in intra-mural and interscholastic sports.
DEBATE —- Both sides of the current high school debate question.

DEPARTMENT CLUBS — Instructions and aids in the directing of school clubs of all types.
HOME ROOMS — Ideas and plans for educative home room projects.

PEP ORGANIZATIONS — Devices for stimulating loyalty and school spirit.

STUDENT PUBLICATIONS — Guidance in the production of school newspaper and yearbook.
PARTIES AND BANQUETS —Suggestions for educative and wholesome social activities.
STUDENT GOVERNMENT — Sound direction in development of student sense of responsibility.
MISCELLANEOUS ACTIVITIES — Music. commencement, point systems, etc.

Subscrzptz'on Price  Subscribe Now

School Activities Publishing Co.

1515 LANE STREET TOPEKA, KANSAS

      

OCTOBER 1951

lllUISVILLE SLUGGEH BATS

FIRST m SOFTBALL As m BASEBALL

Building chompionship power into Louisville Slug-
gers has been our business since 1884. This oc-

cumuloted knowledge of bot

suronce that the Louisville Slugger models you

select are the finest bots which skill and "know
how” can produce.

16 Models

A bot for every type of
Softboll hitter.

making is your os-

J P'Il‘

I.

I

‘u

. 5‘ T "'1, l (11
L141,“‘ bi ' 3

.‘Lll

«p

. Luv-nir-

Ydr ‘z 41 anvil]

at leading gym from (amide-roast #26 (/9011? is Porter

ma’r MaterOei High it's fitter

 

     

This fine new gymnasium at Mater Dei High School at Evansville,
Indiana, is equipped with six Porter Forward-Fold "Hoistowoy"
Bockstops, two with Porter 2118 Rectangular Plate Glass Bockboords
and four with Porter 2088 Rectangular Plywood Bockboords.

High schools all over America point with pride
to Porter basketball backstops, as installations
that are truly in keeping with the finest, most

o o , Side court backstops hoist to the ceiling to per-
mOdern bUlldlngS- Yes) Porter b3CkSt0PS 1001‘ mit clear vision for spectators during basket-

. o o o o ball games. Main court backstaps likewise
right, Work right and are right In every detail, has. to “clear the air” for other gym activities.

for nearly a century of experience and skill goes
into their design and manufaCture. That is why
leading schools, universities, clubs and com-
munities turn to Porter for every gymnasium
equipment need . . . for apparatus as well as

Equipping u Gym?

Whether you are planning a new
building or equipping an old one,
Porter's engineering staff can help
you. No obligation. Write today

 

 

backstops. for free counsel.
THE J. E. I o R I E R CORPORATION Ottawa, Illinois
Manufacturers of Gymnasium, Playground and Swimming Pool Equipment
BHICAED OFFICE: 554 N. Michigan in, Chicago 11. than: Stlptrior 1-1252 NEW YORK OFFICE: II W. 42nd St. New trlt 15. Phone: lUnzacrt 3.1342

 

242 RECREATION

OCTOBER, 1951

 

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT
CONTENTS

 

Editor, JOSEPH PRENDERGAST General F eatures

Managing Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON Recreation and the United Defense Fund (editorial),
Editorial Assistant, SONIA RACHLIN Joseph Prendergast .............  ......................................... .. 245
Business Manager, ROSE JAY SCHWARTZ Bike-Ways Today, Godfrey Frankel ...............  ............. .. 252
ASSOCIATE EDITORS NO One There (Hallowe’en Poem), Helen K. vans .  256
Recreation Administration, GEORGE BUTLER Emergency Game Kits for Air Raid Shelters,

Program Activities, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN Donald B. Dyer ............................................................ .. 260
W Want a Good JOb With NO Pay? J. Campbell Bruce  262
VOL XLV Price 35 Cents NO- 5 A City Newspaper Plans for Youth ............................... .. 271

Happenings of Note .......................................................... .. 274
On the Cover Rocking Chair Recreation Outmoded, Lester Koritz  275
October—the month of goblins, witches and black The National ROSter, Alfred B. Jensen ............................ .. 277
cats against the moon. Here three Hallowe’en Spooks, Guilford Recreation Club, Harrison Brown and
seen by human eye only once a year, are caught P011 Tier 278
by    a     P y l. ' .n-n-nlnl I n I a n n n a n n a n n n II: I a n a ouN- n a n n g n n g g .nF-‘nl-n-gua ago-ii . n n n n n n n n n .n 
Photograph, courtesy of the Fairlavvn, New Jersey, Herggfla ltlfssm tMe Récreatlonk ewsl‘i' _0Y ' owe 
Recreation Department. 0 ies— et y ousewor to 11810,
Photo Credits I (Agnes Psatgc: Hiilslgy  .....  ........................................ .. 
Page 251, Herbert Rebman, Cleveland, Ohio; Pages IndlanEE—l Ra e O . ecrea Ion egrees ............................ .. 301
253 and 255, Sterling publishing company; page n ustria ecreation Meeting .......................................... ..
258, Chicago Aerial Survey Company; Page 260, Recreatlon News ............................................................... .. 301
Milwaukee {\pnrnal; Page 261, Teela-Wooket Arch- -
ery Camp, ew York, and Army Special Services; Administration
Pages 264, 265, Courier Jorgnal and Louisville Sun; A C t P t ts It F t P 257
Pages 271, 272 and 273, ew York Mirror; Page oun y m ec s ores reserves .......................... ..
275. Veterans Home. Napa. California; Page 285. Taking Advantage of Television ...................................... .. 266
Buffalo Conner-Express; Page 289, Manhattan Rec- School Buildings for Community Use __ __ _ 268
reation Commission, Manhattan, Kansas; Page 290, Th P k S h 1 F t. 1 F  ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' '
Manitowoc Recreation Department, Manitovvoc, Wis. 131 larl ECO]: ats_ak “no Iona 3“ “Y: 286
a co m 1r pa ric .................................................... ..
Ne“ Month . _ , A Metropolitan Recreation Council ................................ .. 291
suggesupim. for ChnStmaS plinmng and pre'clmSt' Professional Recreation—Whose Responsibility?
mas activities always appear in our November issue. W.“ d C S th 1 d 294‘
This year, watch for the good list of 16mm. Thanks_ 1 ar . ll er an . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
giving films. Also, don’t miss the good articles on _ _ _
drama, asnd fGeorge Butler’s “Playground Accidents Program ACthltleS
Prompt ur acing Study.” Young people, and those -
who counsel them, will particularly be interested in The liabit of. Books, Nancy Faulkner ............................ .. 249
“Recreation as a Career,” by three recreation em Rifle nstructolon, A. J. Schara      251
ecutives—one who has been in the profession only Boy Meets Glrl at Couple Shoot,
“V0 Years! one Who is an “Old timer” and one Who Mrs. William Hindson .................................................. .. 261
has just retired after outstanding service. Batter Up; George_Anna Carter 264
Hints for Hallowe’en ........................................................ .. 267
RECREATION is DUblished monthly except Inly Most Popular Children’s Plays .................................... .. 270
and Anglia by the National Recreation Association, The Scrap Depot, Viva Whitney .................................... .. 280
it: _%91';{1C8 orgtaréilzgtian solopoirted by liiolunilgn'yk coil)- Arena Theatre .................................................................... .. 283

nions, 3 ur e, w r , . .

Niew York; is on fille,in piiiiii‘i: lihrfiariesoand is Lighted Schoolhouse “Sock Hops,” Ismar P. Tick ...... .. 284
gage: 31,333,315aggggcfuge-Rf3u{egfghggsmf,§££ How-to Do It! Frank A. Staples ...................................... .. 288
Ltd-. 1149 King Street West. Toronto 1. Ontario; Singing With Motion Frank J. Anneberg ...................... .. 289
Canadian subscription rate $3.85. Re-entered as G a . . .

soeftiiond-claslsv mattfr kApiiIJ 25,Y 1350, it thg tPosi ames for Your Collectlon, John A. Friedrich

ea in ew or, ew or, u er ‘

Marchfs, 1:379. Ace-e range for énailinng fioggeigl R and Joiln SPmith  .... n; ....  ....................................... .. 398
a e ' t' , t _

3f Ogtobiiors gigigliIEWautihorgzl’eanM lion1924. o ecipes or un a owe en arty .............................. .. 99
Advertising and Production Ofiice: Jones Press,

Fifth and Fifth Scuth, Minneapolis 15, Minnesota. Regular Features

S R tt' :Rthd 11,104E .

{foiifiietlelth ERESET?:N:§S file, are? YorlghiMilrsli Things You Should Know .............................................. .. 246

111a an, r ' s s .

Illinois; Keith H_ oEvans, 1:371 gnWii‘S’figgeBouiesggg, Recreation comments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 
L05 Angeles 5: Califomia- Suggestion Box .................................................................. .. 296
C ' ht, 1951, is th '

National Maggi-g0, Associaao’ai licorporatea Recreation Market News .................................................. .. 302
Printed in the U.S.A. . saga Magazmes and Pamphlets ................................................ .. 303
“" Trade mark registered in the U- 8- Patent OHice. Books Received .................................................................. .. 303

New Publications .............................................................. .. 304

 

OCTOBER 1951 243

 

 

NATIONAL RECREATION

ASSOCIATION

A Service Organization Supported by Voluntary Contributions

 

Executive Director, JOSEPH PRENDERGAST

 

OFFICERS

0m T. hiALLERY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Chairman of the Board
PAUL MOORE. .ltt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..First Viee-Presideut
MR3. OGOEN L. MILLs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Seeond Vice-President
SUsAN M. LEE .Third Viee-President and Secretary of the Board
AOIIIAN M. Mass": . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Treasurer
GUsTAvus T. KIRIIY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Treasurer Emeritus
JosEPn PaennenGAsT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. SecreIary

BOARD OF DIRECTORS

 

F. W. H. AOAMS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .New York, N. Y. Mas. CHARLES V. chxox . . . . . . . . . . . .. Michigan City. 1nd.

F. 63206 Beans . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Boston, Mass. Mns. JunN D. JAMEsON . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Bellport, N. Y.

Mus. ROBERT Wooos Buss . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Washington. D. C. SUSAN M. LEE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . New York. N. Y.

Mas. AaTnUR G. CUMMER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Jacksonville. Fla. OTTO T. MALLERY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Philade1phia, Pa.

WILLIAM H. DAVIS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .New York, N. Y. CAIII. E. MILLIREN . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Augusta. Me.

HARRY P. DAVISON . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .New York, N. Y. Mas. OGOEN L. MILLS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .WOOdbury. N. Y.

Mas. PAUL GALLAcnaa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Omaha. Nebr. PAUL MOORE, JR... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jemey City. N. J-

ROEERT GAaRtI'rT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . : . . .Baltimore, Md. JOsEPu PRENoERcAsr . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .'. .. .New York. N. Y.

Roaaar GRANT. 3rd . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..0yster Bay. N. Y. Mas. SICMUNO STERN . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. San Francisco. Calif.

AusTIN E. GRIrI-‘I‘rns . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .Seattle, Wash. GRANT TITstIITu . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Noroton. Conn.

Mas. NORMAN HARROWEII . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Fitchburg, Mass. .l. C. WALsn.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Yonkers, N. Y.

Parasitch M. WAnaUIIG . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. New York. N. Y. .

 

Executive Director’s OIEce
GEORGE. E. DICRIE THOMAS E. RIvERs
ROsE JAv SCHWARTZ ARTHUR WILLIAms

WALOO R. HAINSWORTH

Correspondence and Consultation
Service
VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN
GERTRUOI-z BORCHARO LORAINE WILLIAMS

Defense-Related Activities
GEORGE T. AoAMS HELENA G. HOYT

Editorial Department
DOROTHY DONALOSON SONIA RACHLIN

Personnel Service
WILLARo C. SUTHERLANo ALFREo B. JENer
MARY GuaERNAT

HEADQUARTERS STAFF

Research Department

GEORGE D. BUTLER Davao J. DUBOIs
MURIEI. MCCANN EerAIIE'rH CLIFTON

Work with Volunteers

E. BEATRICE STEARNs
MARv QUIRR MARGARET DANRWORTH
FRANCES WHITE LEE

Field Departmen t

CHARLES E. REEo JAMES A. MAoISON

Service to States . . . . . .ROIIERT R. GAMRII'

Areas and Facilities—Planning and Surveys
H. C. l'lUTCltINS ALAN B. BunRI‘r'r

Katherine F. Barker Memorial
Secretary for Women and Girls
HELEN M. DAUNGEY

Industrial Recreation . . . . . .C. E. BREWER

Recreation Leadership Training Courses

RUTH EHLERs ANNE LIVINGSTON
MILOREO SCANLON FRANR A. STAPIES
GRACE WALRER

 

New England Dist rict

DISTRICT REPRESENTATIVES

Southern District

Southwest District

RICHMO 5' WESTG‘TE ' ° ' ° ° °P°"l“"d' Mc' Mrss MARION PREECE . . . . . .Alcxandria, Va. HARD”? VAN ARSOALE- - - i - - -D3“35- T“-
Middle Atlantic District RALPH VAN FIEET . . . . . .Clearwater, Fla.
JOHN W. FAUST o o o o . IEast Orangc‘ N. J. WILLIAM M. HAY . . . . . . .Nashwlle, Tenn. Pacific NorthWest District

GEORGE A. NrsaITT. . . .New York, N. Y.

Great Lakes Dist rict

Midwest District

WILLARO H. SHUMARo. . . . .Scattle, Wash.

Pacific Southwest Dist rict

 

JOHN J. COLLIER. . . . . . . . . .Toledo. Ohio ARTHUR Tooo . . . . . . . . .Kansas City, Mo.
RosERT L. HORNEY . . . . . . .Madison, Wis. HAROLo LATHROP . . . . . . . . .Denver, Colo. LvNN S. RooNEv. . . . .Los Angeles, Calif.
Afliliate Membership Active Associate Membership Contributors

Affiliate membership in the National

'Recreation Association is open to all non-

profit private and publie organizations
whose function is wholly or primarily the
provision or promotion of recreation serv-
ices or which include recreation as an im-
portant part Of their total program and
whose cooperation in the work of the asso-
ciation would, in the opinion of the associa-
tion‘s Board Of Directors. iuIther the ends
of the national reereation movement.

Active associate membership in tbe
National Recreation Association is open to
0]] individuals who are actively engaged
on a full-time or part-time empluyed basis
or as voluntcers in a nonprofiI private or
publie recreation organization and whose
Cooperation in the work of the association
wnnld, in the Opinion of the association's
Board of Directors, further the ends of the
national recreation movement.

The continuation of the work of the
National Recreation Association from year
to year is made possible by the splendid
cooperation of several hundred volunteer
sponsors throughout the country, and the
generous contributions of thousands of
supporters of this movement to bring bealth.
happiness and creative living tO the boys
and girls and the men and women oi
America. if you would like to join in the
support of this movement, you may send
your contribution direct to the association.

 

The National Recreation Association is a nation-
wide, nonprofit, nonpolitical and nonsectarian civic
organization, established in 1906 and supported by
voluntary contributions, and dedicated to the service
of all recreation exccutivcs, leaders and agencies,

public and private, to the end that every child in
America shall have a place to play in safety and
that every person in America, young and old, shall
have an opportunity for the best and most satisfy-
ing use of his expanding leisure time.

F or further information regarding the association’s services and membership, please write to the
Executive Director, National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10, New York.

 

 

244

RECREATION

ODAY, the United States lives and

must continue to live in a state
which is neither peace nor war. The
ultimate tipping of the scale for peace
or total mobilization may not come for
years. It may never come in our timc;
or all-out war could come tomorrow.
An event occurs. A demand is made;
and within minutes the explosives of
war rock the world.

In this cold war atmosphere, therc
can be no apathy. Success in resisting
the designs of Soviet Russia for world
domination will depend upon the abil-
ity of all of our pe0ple to adjust their
living, their thinking, and their cfforts
to furthering effective mobilization for
the sccurity of this country.

It is heartening, therefore, in this
time of uncertainty and tension, to
know that the nation’s outstanding vol-
untary recreation, health and welfare
agencies are rising to the occasion by
providing special services to help meet
the growing needs created by the de-
fense program. Such organizations as
the National Recreation Association,
United Service Organizations and thc
American Social Hygiene Association
not only are providing services vital to
the members of our armed forces but,
through the United Community De-
fense Services, are putting their com-
bined skills at the service of defense-
impacted communities needing a help-
ing hand.

To finance their extra services, thesc
agencies have joined forces in the
United Defense Fund for one appeal to
the country, for the support of special
defense activities. With a total goal
of $18,624,854 for 1952, the United
Dcfcnsc Fund is seeking $16,511,854.
of this amount through fall Community
Chest Red Feather campaigns in towns
and cities throughout the land. The re”
maining $2,113,000 of the total cam-
paign goal will be sought through a
separate campaign in New York City.

There can be no question of the need
for the services to bc providcd with
this money. President Truman declarcs
that “the formation of the Unitcd Dc-
fcnse Fund is highly gratifying . . . to

OCTOBER 1951

EDITORIAL

 

RECREATION

and the

UNITED DEFENSE FUND

everyone concerned with the national
defense effort . . . I salute this united
effort for its fine example of team-

work.”

Charles E. Wilson, director of the
Office of Defense Mobilization, thinks
that “if there is fumbling or delay in
establishing community services neces-
sary to maintain everyday living on a
satisfactory basis, industry can lose vi-
tal manpower through absenteeism, ill-
ness and turnover in skilled labor. All
of these are a real threat to produc-
tion.”

Consumer testimony in support of
the need for the United Defense Fund
and of the services which it finances
comes from all sides.

There is the sergeant in Korea who
writes of the tremendous morale effect
of the USO Camp Show Units . . .

The working mother in an industri-
ally impacted community on the West
Coast, relieved because a child care
center has been established . . .

The young man in one of the recent-
ly reactivated armed forces installa—
tions who reports that the recreation
Opportunities provided by the local
community make it seem as though he
is in his own home town .

Thousands of people in the military
and civil front lines of our cold war
mobilization are benefiting from the
work of the UDF agcncies. Millions
more need thcir help. This can be
made possible only through thc whole-
hearted support of all citizens. Gen-

eral George C. Marshall, Secretary of
Defense, summed up the thinking of
our top officials when he said: “The
United Defense Fund is an integral
part of the defense effort. It is coor-
dinating its efforts closely with those
of the government. I hope that the
nation’s Community Chests and our
peOple will stand solidly behind it.”

The National Recreation Association
is using, to the fullest extent, its nor-
mal services in helping to meet recrea-
tion problems created by the defense
program. However, the need is greater
than can be met through its regular
budget. Special additional services are
essential and are being financed by the
United Defense Fund. The association
urges all those interested in helping
recreation meet its defense responsibil-
ities to take a special interest in the
success this fall of the local Community
Chest campaigns, of which the United
Defense Fund is a part.

In these troubled times, community
recreation is vital. To make its bene-
fits available to all requires special and
constant local and national effort. This
situation brings a new public relations
opportunity to recreation departments.
Take advantage of it and interpret to
your local Community Chest and to
your community the need and purpose
of the United Defense Fund.

Help keep America strong.

MW

   

0 ORDER M-4, of the National Produc-
tion Authority, was revoked as of Au-
gust 3 and replaced with Order M-4A.
The latter, revised August 20, retains
the list of prohibited recreation con-
struction, but provides for exceptions
and a limited use of critical materials.
Effective October 1, the use of steel or
copper for any kind of recreation con-
struction will require formal NPA allot-
ments.

To apply for an adjustment or ex--

ception from M-4A, both Form NPAF
24A and Form CMP-4C must be filed
with the National Production Author-
ity, Washington 25, D. C. In deter-
mining whether an exception or adj ust-
ment should be granted, NPA will con-
sider whether the applicant has prop-
erly provided for sufhcient quantities
of controlled materials to complete the
proposed structure.

oTHE MAYBANK SPENCE BILL, which
was passed by Congress on August 21,
provides, among other things, for a
sixty-million-dollar fund for loans and
grants to critical defense communities
for the construction and operation of
community facilities and services, in-
cluding those of recreation—if they
cannot bc financed locally. Provisions
will be discussed at one of the defense
meetings of the National Recreation
Congress in Boston.

0 OFF THE PRESS OCTOBER FIRST will
be the new “Emergency Recreation
Services in Civil Defense” manual,
published by the National Recreation
Association. In addition, number Six-
teen of the “Defense Recreation Bulle-
tin,” designed to keep recreation pco-
ple abrcast of the times in all matters
rclating to recrcation and defcnse, was
released on the fifth of Septcmber. The

246

7W @044 Seemed Km .

files of every recreation worker should
contain a complete set.

0 ANY SERVICEMAN 1N UNIFORM will be
exempt from the Federal admission tax
on entertainment if he is not paying
any admission price, according to Bill
HR 4601, which was approved by the
House in August.

0 THE SIXTH ANNUAL Industrial Recre-
ation Conference, to be held at Purdue
University November 18, will feature
Joseph Prendergast as its main speak-
er. His topic will bc “Recreation’s
Contribution to our Industrial Society
in a Period of Emergency.”

Mr. Prendergast also will attend the
Third National Catholic Youth Confer-
ence in Cincinnati on October 15, the
Mid-Continent Park and Recreation
Conference in La Crosse, Wisconsin,
October 24- to 25, and the thirty-first
meeting of the National Conference on
State Parks, Zaleski, Ohio, Oct. 8-12.
0 THE UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF
DEFENSE has established a women’s ad-
visory committee, of women prominent
in public and professional fields. Mem-
bers have been appointed by Mrs. Anna
M. Rosenberg, Assistant Secretary of
Defense, and their responsibility will
be to give expert counsel on policies
which will makc military service at-
tractive to young women and assure
their parents that genuine interest is
being taken in their welfare. The new
committee is entitled “The Defense Ad-
visory Council on Women in the Serv-
ice.”
0THE AMERICAN COUNCIL ON EDUCA-
TION held a significant conferencc on
“Women in the Defense Decadc,” at
the Commodore Hotel in New York
City, September 27 to 28, and discussed
what women’s attitudes, philosophy and

activitics should be in the next tcn
years. Thc National Recreation Asso-
ciation was prcsented by Helen
Dauncey, Katherine F. Barkcr Mc1no-
rial Secretary for Women and Girls.
0 AN ANALYSIS of the annual state park
expenditures, sourccs of funds, attcnd-
ance, personnel and land acquisition
for 1950 now is available from thc
United States Department of thc In-
tcrior, National Park Service, Room-
ation Planning Division, Washington,
D. C. This is compiled from the 1950
annual records on state park lands and
related areas.
0 TWO INTERESTING CANADIAN SURVEYS,
now completcd, are: 1) “National Sur-
vey of Rccreation in Canadian Com-
munities,” sponsored jointly by the Na-
tional Council on Physical Fitness, thc
Canadian Federation of Mayors and
Municipalities and the Parks and Rec-
reation Association of Canada, avail-
able from the Dcpartment of National
Health and Welfare, Jackson Building,
Ottawa; 2) “Recreation in Industry,”
a survey of recreation programs in
manufacturing plants in Ontario, con-
ducted by the Community Programmcs
Branch of the Ontario Department of
Education and available from branch
ofIices at 206 Huron Street, Toronto.
0 A PROGRESS REPORT (No. 1323), “An
Experiment in Informal Community
Organization,” which deals with a sim-
ple and successful experiment in com-
munity organizations, may be obtained
by writing to the Texas Agricultural
Experiment Station, Texas A and M
College System, College Station, Texas.
The first of at lcast five cities in
Illinois that have passed an ordinancc
prohibiting powered model airplanes
from fiying within the city limits is re-
ported to be Evanston, Illinois. This
action by the city council has not met
general approval and, according to the
superintendent of recreation, membch
of the Junior Chambcr of Commcrcc
are making efforts to havc thc ordi-
nance rescinded. “It is an cxample of
hurried legislation, sponsored by an
alderman bccause his constitucncy com-
plaincd of the noise caused by the
motors. Thc solution is certainly not
to be found in climination, but rather
through controls.” (See article, “Mod-
cl Aviation,” October 1950, issue of
RECREATION—Ed.)

RECREATION

RECREATION

 

District Music Service

Sirs:

Because of your interest in activi-
ties for older pe0ple, we thought you
would wish to know about a new serv-
ice developed by our District Music
Department.

This past year the East Harlem
Council for Community Planning asked
us to work out group music pr0grams
for persons over the age of sixty. The
first of these, undertaken for the York-
ville Neighborhood Club, revealed the
most satisfactory results . .

Assigned to graduate students, the
programs combine entertainment with
informal choral instruction and per-
formance. They make use of musical
training any of the group members
may have had, but take into considera-
tion the fact that many have had no
prior musical background.

Visiting observers from other agen-
cies have eXpressed complete approval
of the approach, and the school has
been asked to undertake leadership of
other such programs.

Several student-leaders, who planned
and conducted the programs, have be-
come so greatly interested in construc-
tive activities for older people that they
plan to specialize in this field . . .

Meanwhile, some of the graduate
students would be glad of the oppor-
tunity to plan and direct similar pro-
grams for other groups or clubs of
older persons. If any organization
with which you are connected has need
for this kind of leadership, we shall
greatly appreciate your letting us
know; or they may write directly to

us at 238 East 105th Street, New York
29, New York. The fees are nominal,

OCTOBER 1951

but will assist the students while they
complete their training.
ISABELLE STRAUSS, District Music
Service, Manhattan School of Music.

Factual Data Wanted

Sirs:

We have received several requests
for factual data on daily use factors
of the latrine buildings in public parks
and recreational areas. We would like
to know if any of your district repre-
sentatives, in their contacts with local
recreation and park authorities, have
compiled any data on this subject or
would have any information that may
be of value to us. In a number of in-
stances, it is generally believed that
latrine buildings and comfort stations
may be over-designed, with more fix-
tures than are necessary adequately to
service the public using the specific
area. Any information you may be
able to furnish us in this connection
will be greatly appreciated.

JOHN B. THOMAS, Municipal and

Rural Branch, Division of Sanita-

tion, Federal Security Agency, Pub-

lic Health Service, Washington 25,

D. C.

Subscribers: We shall greatly appre-
ciate your sending us an account of
the results of your experiences, along
the lines of the above, so that we
may pass it on to others.-—Ed.

About Recreation

Sirs:

Congratulations certainly are due
the staff of the RECREATION magazine
. . . Too often those of us who are

regular leaders of a publication take
for granted the efforts and hard work

 

of those who are reSponsible for the
actual publication details.

As a recreation enthusiast for over
twenty years and an active NRA mem-
ber since college days, I have turned
to RECREATION many times for inspira-
tion (when the going got tough), new
ideas (when my program needed a
lift) and for my own recreation as
well . . . During this time the magazine
has grown and broadened its coverage
and kept pace with the deve10pment
and expansion of the recreation profes-
sion and field . . . It is gratifying to
pick it up now and find such an ex-
cellent and extensive coverage of many
specialized and generalized activities,
plus thought-provoking articles on the
theoretical, objective, administrative
and evaluative sides of recreation. The
May 1951 issue is an outstanding ex-

   
      
   

    
   

, ’{iii‘ifféi‘iihmmiiusso for All.
TEXTILE PAINT! - .   

s.  SUPPLIES! '.T

{$xgttmmmnm

     
 

cann’- roouN '
‘ Ims. r

 
     
 

    
 
 

    

GYM EQUIPMENT

0 Gymnaslum Equipment
0 Telescopic Gym Seats

0 Basketball Scoreboards

0 Basketball Backstops

0 Steel Lockers, Lockerobes
and Grade-Robes

Wm gm W9
FRED MEDART PRODUCTS,INc.

3566 DE KAlB ST. ST. lOUIS TB, M0.

Far 78 Years
The Standard Of Quality

247

athletic bulls

You can depend upon famous
Wilson INDESTRUCTO
Rubber Covered Athletic Balls
to give the acme in performance
and the maximum in long life.
No rubber covered balls

made can outwear them—

or give more satisfactory
service in any way. Sold by
leading sporting goods
dealers everywhere.

0
 w

TODAY IN SPORTS EQUIPMENT

Wrison Sportmg Goods Co., Chicago
Branch offices in New York, San Francisco

and 26 other principal. cities
[A subsidiary of Wilson & Co., Inc!

—____.______._________
248

  
   
 
 
  
  
  
   

ample of ust such material.

“Recreation in Veterans Administra-
tion Hospitals,” of special interest to
me as a recreation technician at a
Veterans Administration Center, “The
N ecd for Recreation—What Is It?”, of
great help in bringing into focus the
total recreation picture, and “Sugges-
tions for Recreation Training Pro-
grams in Colleges and Universities”
were outstanding.

From month to month features like
Recipes for Fun, Personal Opportuni-
ties, Things You Should Know, The
Suggestion Box, New Publications and
Market News continue to serve as a
means of keeping current with the best

of what’s new in our rapidly exPanding
profession.

MRS. LORRAINE V. CLARK, Recrea-
tion Technician, Milwaukee, Wis.

“Whithcr ‘Westem’ Square Dance?”
Sirs:

l have been impressed with the
number of letters written regarding
“Whither ‘Western’ Square Dance?”

which appeared in RECREATION last
November. We in Atchison have had

Most people go to a square dance to
relax, forget their everyday problems
and have a good time. They cannot do
this while learning or attempting to
learn a great number of fancy intricate
steps. These fancy dressed up dances
have their place and I believe that
those who care to dance for the sake
of perfection and the presentation of
exhibitions should be encouraged.
However, this is not for the average
square dancer.

In the spring of 1950 a group of our
dancers were asked to take part in the
exhibitions at a Kansas City festival.
They refused because they were ob-
viously unprepared for an exhibition
of that type and, as it later proved,
would have been very much out of
place in view of the flowery and fancy
costumes worn by most of the dancers.
A group of us attended and attempted
to join in the dancing after the exhibi-
tions. A caller billed from Hollywood
was on hand and our group was unable

to understand his gibberish. Thinking
that we were perhaps a group of ignor-
ant dolts and could not squarc dance
after all, I looked about and found
that about seventy-five per cent of the
dancers could not understand it either.

Needless to say, we left as did many
others.

Many callers are now getting to the
point where clarity and direction have
lost all meaning for them and they are
attempting to put on a show of their
own. They lose sight of the fact that
their one and only purpose is to direct
the dancers in a manner that can he
understood. Nothing is more confus-

ing than to be left wandering around
in a maze of unfamiliar phrases. . . .

We are fortunate that this condition
does not exist in our regular dances
here in Kansas and other parts of the
Midwest. Our callers are courteous and
try to help the dancers . . . All in all,
I think that the square dance has great
recreational value and is a wonderful
equalizer. However, we should not
take it too seriously. When We do, it
will cease to be fun.

WAYNE BLY, Superintendent of Rec-
reation, Atchison Public Recreation
Commission, Atchison, Kansas.

Sirs:

“Whither ‘Western’ Square Dance?”
in the November issue was wonderful.

I thoroughly agreed with everything
in the article and so did most of the
members of our Lexington Country
Dance Society.

We were wondering if you would
give us permission to reprint the arti-
cle to send to other people or if you
have copies that you could send us to
distribute not only to our members
but to send to other dance groups?

We especially agree that the twirls
and whirls, the elaborate costumes and
commercial side of the western square
dancing are detrimental to the whole
dance movement.

JAMES PHEANE Ross, Field

Agent in Club Work, Lexing-
ton, Kentucky.

Subscribers: Won’t more of you
write us your opinions and idcas for
this page? Your cooperation could
make it ever more valuablc.—Ed.

RECREATION

 

ovember eleventh to
seventeenth, 1951, is
. Children’s Book
Week, and its slogan this year is “New
Horizons with Books.” It’s a time set
aside for focusing attention upon chil-
(Iren and books, and the need of the
one for the other. It’s a good time to
take stock of the place of books in the
recreation program.

Or are you one of those recreation
leaders who feels that books are the
job of the teacher or the librarian or
the parent? A lot of people think that
the habit of books can be left to the
individual. A youngster will read———or
not read—according to his own natural
impulses. Why should a recreation
program devote time to so personal a
matter as reading?

There is, of course, an element of
lruth in this reasoning. There are
natural readers in the world of young-
sters. They’ll read in spite of heaven
and the horse guards and, too often,
the problem is to drive them into the
varied program and the physical activ-
ity which they need. But these boys
and girls are relatively few. For the
great majority of small people, the
hahit of books has to be nurtured.

Is it any part of the recreation lead-
er’s job to plant the seed of reading

 

MISS FAULKNER, at one time managing
editor of RECREATION, is agiliated
with Gloria Chandler Recordings, Inc.

OCTOBER 1951

and tend it? I believe that it is a
part of his job—a very important part.
I believc that this is true for two good

recreation reasons.

READING F OR THE INDIVIDUAL

The habit of books can be one of the
most satisfying and long-continuing
recreation patterns of them all. When
middle-aged muscles and the pressures
of adult living push athletic skills into
a corner of memory, books still will
cheer the heart and delight the mind.

Lack of recreation facilities or lack
of time to use them may face any of
us in our adult lives. But books are al-
ways being published and can be
adapted to any segment of recreation
time we have available. Neither time
nor isolation nor—in these days of in-
expensive reprints, libraries and book-
mobiles—a thin purse need separate a
person from the recreation that lies in
books, once the habit is formed.

But—there are hundreds of thou-
sands of boys and girls in the United
States who have never seen a book
other than a textbook. There are whole
counties in some of our states in which
the only book to be found is the Bible.
Even with more fortunate youngsters
who have easy access to books, the sub-
stitutes for reading—-—comics, movies,
television, radio—are pushing books
more and more into the limbo of for-
gotten pleasures.

What chance has the majority of the

growing-up generation to make a habit

THE HABIT
of BOOKS

Nancy Faulkner

of books against future needs unless
they are guided or gently pushed into
this great, fascinating world of the
printed word? Who is to lead them
to the discovery of “new horizons with
books”—as the Children’s Book Week
Committee so aptly :puts it? Certainly
the teacher, the librarian and the par-
ent can help develop the habit, but so
can, and so should, the recreation lead-
er. This is more especially so because
the recreation leader has at his com-
mand skills and facilities which can be
turned to good account in presenting
to non-readers the idea of reading in a
climate of fun.

-—AND THE RECREATION PROGRAM

If a vigorous and well-rounded pro-
gram based upon books can be of
growing and lasting value to the indi-
vidual as he progresses from childhood
to old age, it can be, as well, a shot in
the arm for the recreation program.
For books, properly used, will enrich
the whole activity program.

Story Hours: At the very least,
books can provide a quiet contrast to
active sports and games at a relatively
small expenditure of money, time and
trained personnel through the story
hour, reading hour or listening hour.
The best kind of story hour, if you’re
so fortunate as to have a really good
storyteller on your staff, is the per-
sonally-told tale drawn from old fa-
vorites or from any of the thousands
of excellent new books for children

249

ll

that go each year from editors” desks
to book stores and libraries, schools
and homes. Many full-length chil-
dren’s books can be easily and suc-
cessfully cut to meet the storyteller's
time needs. A part of the book thus
told, and a hint of other adventures
not divulged by the storyteller, often
will lead the listeners to read the full
book for themselves and thus begin a
habit of books.

If you haven’t a good storyteller at
your beck and call, story records can
do the job for you. At the end of this
article, you’ll find some sources for
these and other aids to the reading
program.

If some portion of the budget can be
used for the gradual building up of a
recreation center library, youngsters
can be led to investigate for themselves
the insides of books through a reading
hour. And there is one good thing
about building a library of children’s
books—seldom do they, as adult books

 

At least, books can provide a quiet contrast to active sports and
games; at best, they can lead to discovery of new horizons.

so often do, become quickly dated or
uninteresting. Children’s books go on
year after year, serving new genera-
tions of youngsters as they come along.

Drama and Radio Activities: For a
more highly developed program, books
can be used as a jumping-off place for
many another activity. There’s no bet-
ter start for play-acting than a well-
loved story. Youngsters naturally tend
to act out a good yarn. And good yarns
by the hundreds are published every
year. A segment of a book can, with
a little adult guidance, be worked into
a simple dramatization by young scrib-
blers to be acted out as a play or a

250

mock radio production by dramatic or
radio groups. Both the dramatization
and the acting bccome integral parts of
the activities program. Probably, the
warning that public performanccs re-
quire permission from t11c c0pyrig11t
owner isn’t necessary; but, in any case,
therc is much that can be done with
book dramatizations, for the fun of it,
in the realm of informal dramatics on
the playground or at the recreation
center.

Crafts, Dancing, Music, Nature:
Props, costumes, scenery for the play
——no matter how simple—or produc-
tion effects for the mock radio show
lead naturally to crafts activities. But,
even without dramatization, books lead
into crafts. Making and dressing char-
acter dolls, modelling in sandboxes and
carving in soap or wood, mask and
model making—these can all be
sparked from the great wealth of story
material upon book shelves. Scrap-
books, picturc books, picture maps,
folk singing, folk
dancing, nature ac-
tivities can be tied
to books and lead
out of them into a
full year’s activity
program. And, in
so doing, all of these
can contribute to the

habit of books.

A TIME FOR
BEGIN N IN C

Children’s B o 0 k

Week is a good time
to begin a year-long
book program. This
special week is, by
now, as familiar in
the book world as
Thanksgiving or Halloween. All over
the country communities large and
small give special thought to the read-
ing needs of youngsters. Schools and
libraries, booksellers, radio stations
and laymen plan activities ranging
from book bazaars to lectures. A well-
planned, week-long celebration of book
week will lay a strong foundation for
continuing fun with books and, if done
in cooperation with other local groups,
can become a strikingly effective city-
wide afiair. Here are some suggestions
for marking Children’s Book Week in
recreation centers.

Book Fairs or Bazaars: A book fair

or book bazaar has a two-fold purposc.
lt makcs it possible for youngsters and
thcir parents to sec at first hand somc
of the hundreds of books available to
them, and it provides, through a dis-
count arrangcmcnt with booksellcrs,
money to buy books for the sponsoring
groups.

A book fair or bazaar may be as
elaborate or as simple as your time
and funds justify. It can be handled
by the recreation or park department
alone or in cooperation with some
other community group intcrcsted in
children—such as the PTA, the Junior
League, the Woman’s Club and thc
like. In some cities, local booksellers
will set up a book fair or bazaar for
you. However, if this is not possible,
arrangements may be made through
Book Fairs, Incorporated, or Scholastic
Teacher’s book bazaar service. (Sec
rcsources list.)

Costume Party: A costume party, if
you haven’t as yet established a read-
ing program, had best stick to the bet-
ter-known classics for costume ideas—
Tom Sawyer, Huckleberry F inn, Peter
Rabbit, Little Women and so 011. if
your youngsters already arc familiar
with the modern classics for children,
the sky is the limit on the chances for
dressing up as book people.

All the old and well-loved games can
be used for fun—adapted to the book
theme. The title or a story character
can be pinned onto a book, instead of
the tail on the donkey. “Going-to-
Jerusalem” can become “Going-to-
Bookland,” and so on. Ideas for deco-
rations and refreshments can bc drawn
from books, or from some special
book, for they are full of suggestions
in both of these categories. There
might, for example, be an Alice in
Wonderland party.

Treasure Hunt or Scavenger Hunt:
A treasure hunt, with clues made up
from book titles, or a scavengcr hunt
for such things as Tom Sawyer’s paint-
brush or a doughnut from Homer
Price’s uncle’s doughnut machine will
provide physical activity and mental
gymnastics for middle-agers. These ac-
tivities, as well as a book quiz, may
be used separately or may be combined
with the costume party.

Storytelling or Story Record Party:
An excellent activity for book week

RECREATION

can be built around the Newberry
Award books. Each year, the children’s
librarians of the country decide which
book will receive this award as the
most distinguished contribution to chil-
dren’s literature of the year. Some of
these stories have been dramatized and
recorded. All of them are available to
storytellers. An afternoon devoted to
hearing one or more of these tales, to

learning something of the history of
children’s books and of John Newberry

who pioneered in bringing books to
children, together with an exhibit of

Newberry Award winners would be a
fitting way to mark this special week.
Poster Exhibit: Each year, the Chil-
dren’s Book Council prepares a poster
to be used during hook week. These
posters are available from them for a
small sum. The 1951 poster might
serve as a nucleus for developing your
own exhibit of posters made by your
young patrons and displayed during
book week at the recreation center.

RESOURCES LIST

Children's Book Council, 50 West 53rd
Street, New York. Posters, manuals, phono-

graph records about hooks; general informa-
tion and advice on program planning.

Scholastic Teacher, 351 Fourth Avenue,
New York. Book bazaars; an inexpensive
book club plan for youngsters from eleven to
eighteen years of age.

Book Fairs, Incorporated, Michigan City,
Indiana. Information and hooks for book
fairs.

American Library Association, 50 East
Huron Street, Chicago, Illinois. Book lists,
storytelling records.

Gloria Chandler Recordings, Incorporated,
4221/2 West 46th Street, New York. Drama-
tizations on records of Newberry winners
and other books.

 

All Firing is done under strict supervision. Older students
pitch in, help the beginners to receive individual attention.

103 THE PAST TWELVE YEARS, the Manitowoc, Wisconsin,
Recreation Department has been giving local youngsters
an opportunity to attend classes in rifle instruction. Marks-
manship and safety, under the strict guidance of Syd Her-
1nan, provide the fundamental aims of this activity.

Three classes of junior rifle instruction are offered by
the department. One night is set aside for beginners and to
permit youngsters of high school age to enroll. This par-
ticular group is so limited because the department be-
lieves that youngsters under high school age should not
be encouraged to be out after dark. Therefore, a class for
the younger group is offered on Saturday mornings and
afternoons. Another evening is set aside for those ready
for advanced instruction and perfection in marksmanship.
The classes start in November and end in April. Since
their inception, over twenty-five hundred boys and girls
have attended and the enrollment for 1951 is well over
the two hundred mark.

A youngster wishing instruction comes to the recreation
office to secure an enrollment blank. This is taken home for
his parents’ signatures and release of liability. Upon its
being returned to the ofiice, a fifty-cent membership fee

OCTOBER 1951

A. J. Schara

Rifle Instruction

is paid. The receipt part of the blank, stating his full
name, age and address, is given to the youngster to take
to the instructor for assignment to a class at an appropriate
time. All classes run for one hour and there are three or
four classes to each period of instruction.

The rifle and pistol indoor range of the Manitowoc Po-
lice Department is the scene for all activity. Through the
line cooperation of Chief of Police J. J. Kuplic, it has been
made available, without cost, to the recreation depart-
ment. No youngster is permitted to bring his or her own
gun to any class. The guns used by the students are gov-
ernment issued and are inspected by the instructor be-
fore each session begins. Ammunition and targets, which
also are furnished to the boys and girls at no cost, are
government issued too. Each participant is given at least
ten free shots during his class period. In many cases, the
students remain after classes to get more instruction and
practice. If ammunition is used during these extra pe-
riods, it is paid for by the students and furnished by the
instructor.

All firing is done under strict supervision and there
have been no accidents on the range during the twelve
years that the program has been in Operation. Police Chief
Kuplic recently reported that no boy who had ever be-
longed to our rifle classes has ever been picked up for a
violation of the city’s firearms ordinance or become in-
volved in an accident. Many parents write, call or visit
us to commend the fine effect the club has upon their
youngsters, and our department is especially proud of the
achievements and records set by many of our former stu-
dents who have joined the armed services.

A. J. SCHARA is director of recreation, Manitowoc, Wis.

251

 

.IE BIKE BOOM IS ON! Not since the golden year of 1899,
Twhen cycles were more numerous than automobiles, has
the United States seen anything like this. Already there
are more than eighteen million bike riders on the road, and
with three million bikes in production this year, it seems
likely that the two-wheelers will give their motor com-
petitors a run for their money.

Motorcars dominated the scene for the first half of the
Twentieth Century, and serious cycling was left to racers,
faddists, youngsters and old-timers who somehow never
got over their first crush—the bicycle. Self-prOpulsion
was passé. Bike production dropped to a low of two hun-
dred fifty thousand units in 1933, when, even in the midst
of depression, the American family stuck to its jalopy.

Today, it’s a different story. Americans finally seem to
have awakened from the onslaught of the car. They want
to visit more intimately the land their cars whiz through.
They seek the unpaved backroads and picturesque byways
where a bike is a handier vehicle. They want to smell
fresh country air, untainted by exhaust fumes. They want
such pleasures as coasting down long hills with the wind
whistling by, and unforgettable explorations and picnics
into the back hills. Cycling out of the city is to travel in
quietness, listening to the spinning spokes and hum of tires

. a palliative for our age. As a vital recreational activ-
ity, cycling can help release inner personality pressures and
provide natural compensations for better emotional health.

Cycling is a source of exercise for some people, a re-
ducer for others and a recreation for all. Compared with
other means of travel that are completely dependent upon
physical energy, the bicycle is the most efficient trans-
portation. It carries many more times its own weight; it
occupies little space and lasts a long time. . . .

Many thousands of young adults are attracted to the
American Youth Hostels, which sponsors shelters in vari-
ous parts of the country where cyclists can get lodging and

Reprinted from the book, Bike-Ways, by Godfrey Frankel.. Sterling
Publishing Company, New York. $3.00. The author Is a director of
community activities in Cleveland and has just completed a new
book, 10] Approved and New Games.

252

Godfrey Frankel

a place to cook their meals at fifty cents per night. Hostel-
ers find much more recreation traveling this way than they
possibly could by being encased in the family car.

More and more, wives are using their cycles to market.
In industry, bikes shorten distances at large plants and
construction areas, where supervisors have to check con-
tinually on widespread operations. On college campuses,
bikes are more popular than ever, and courses in their
care and repair are being given at some institutions. At
hospitals, cycles are used for physical therapy of amputees
and convalescents. Youngsters still constitute the bulk of
the bike-riding population—to and from school, in the
neighborhood, in cycle clubs and as part of youth-serving
agency programs.

Are You a Safety-first Bike Rider?

That’s a big question today when there are probably
twenty-five million cars and trucks wheeling down the
nation’s highways. You have to place safety first; your
bike must be in good condition; and you tnust follow
traffic rules if you want to stay on the road.

Statistics put responsibility for traffic accidents squarcly
on the bike rider. F igures* show that twenty-five per cent
of all bike accidents in the United States are caused by
bikes in bad repair, and that seventy-five per cent of all
bike-motor accidents occur because the cyclist violates
traffic rules. There is no place for a daredevil rider.

Here are the results of a survey taken in two typical
cities (Denver, Colorado, and Springfield, Massachusetts) ;
they speak for themselves. One-fourth of all bike accidents
in these cities occurred because the cyclists made impropcr
turns or failed to signal correctly at an intersection. Al-
most as important a cause of accidents was the lack of
proper controls (ill-kept brakes, no head lamps, no rear
reflectors) or failure of the rider to use them. That biggest
of bicycle boners, carrying an extra rider, accounted for
thirteen per cent of the accidents. In eleven pcr cent of
the cases, cyclists ran into open auto doors and, in ten
per cent, they did not have the right of way. Other causes
were exccssive spced, cutting in and out between cars,

 

* From the Bicycle Institute of America.

RECREATION

 

 

Bikes are increasingly used for marketing, crossing campuses, practical purposes;
but real bike-ways lead to picturesque byways, country air, and picnics in the hills.

hitching a ride on another vehicle and riding against
traffic. All of the accidents could have been avoided if the
riders had followed the few simple rules of safety first
which are listed later in this article.

Since so many cyclists involved in accidents are fifteen
years of age or younger, safety education begins with this
age group.
have recognized the need and, at the suggestion of police
officials, have set up a Junior Bicycle Court to teach school-
mates the ABC’s of safe cycling and to discourage the
“rough riders.” When it first started several years ago, the
Junior Court handled about twenty-two cases monthly;
now there are never more than four or five.

In Bloomfield, New Jersey, young cyclists

The court has a judge and jury of students from the
city’s schools. Its members are given a thorough briefing
in legal procedure so that they will be fair and impartial.
Bike riders in Bloomfield are summoned before the court
for such offenses as stunt riding, not stopping for lights,
going the wrong way on a one-way street or hitching onto

OCTOBER 1951

trucks. The court hands out only light
penalties, its main purpose being to
win the cooperation of young riders
and make them better cyclists.

For a first offense, the guilty rider
in Bloomfield is sentenced to write a
five hundred word essay on bike safety.
Second offenders get a stern lecture
from the police department. A third
offense takes the rider off wheels for a
weck and his bike is padlocked. In
each case, copies of the offense and

'punishment are sent to the cyclist’s

parents.
There have been very few second or

third offenders. The bike riders know
that they get a fair deal and appreciate
the chance to present their side of the
case before a judge and jury of their
own schoolmates, rather than one of
policc and city officials.

The Bloomfield Junior Court has
been so successful that cities and towns
all over the country have set up Slnll-
Iar courts. Teen-age courts do more
than teach traffic regulations; they are
helping to train a generation that will
be driving motorcars tomorrow. They
give the young people who serve as
judges and jurors a grown-up experi-
ence in good citizenship. They give
youth a chance to assume responsibil-
ity in the community and to learn
lessons that are part of living in a
machine-age society.

The Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts or-
ganizations are teaching bicycle safety
on a national scale. The Girl Scout
who wants to win a cycling badge
must know more than how to ride her
bike and keep it in good repair. She must know state and
local laws governing bicycles in traffic, and her bike must
be equipped with all the proper safety devices. Many
Scout troops regularly ask a member of the local traffic
department or safety'council to talk on safe bike riding.

Boy Scouts, too, must know proper safety rules if they
want to win a cycling badge. The Health and Safety Serv-
ice of the Boy Scouts has sent out more than forty-two
thousand “ride safe” posters to local Scout troops. Headed
“Bike Boners Kill!” the posters list the don’t’s of cycling
and explain in clear, simple language the ride-safe rules
of the road.

In Schenectady, New York, Scout troops worked with a
local newspaper in a drive to hold free safety checks on
all the bikes in the county. Checking stations were estab-
lished at fire houses and Scouts inspected more than two
thousand bikes in one day. Certificates were awarded to
cyclists whose machines passed the inspection.

Thousands of cities, ranging in size from Buffalo, New

253

York, with a population of half a million, to Tomah,
“'isconsin, with 3,564, have passed laws calling for regis-
tration of bicycles, pre-licensing tests and safety courses in
schools. In Allentown, Pennsylvania, and Hartford, Con-
necticut, bike riders must pass day-long skill tests before
they are given operators’ licenses.

A survey" in 326 cities all over the country showed that
the usual fee charged for bike registration is twenty-five
cents. A few cities charge fifty cents or a dollar. Regular
bike inspections are required in 118 cities. In fourteen
cities, the rider has to pass a practical road test to get a
license. A few cities require a written test. All the cities
questioned reported that licensing and registration had cut
down on the number of bike thefts.

Cyclists’
Code for
Safety

Here are tome do's and don't: issued
bythe Bicycle hntituted'Amuiannc.
thxt can help to keep bicycle accidents
Ito minimum

USE
THESE
HAND
SIGNALS

The American Automobile Association works actively
for road safety for both motorists and bicycle riders. In
many communities, local AAA clubs are working to make
bike riding safe at night by introducing to cyclists a new
reflector-type tape called “Scotchlite,” which they supply.
This is like ordinary adhesive tape and is easy to put on.
When applied to the rear fender, handlebars and front
fork, it gives bikes a permanent glow at night, which is
visible to automobile drivers from a distance of several
hundred feet away. Many towns hold “Scotchlite” days,
when riders can bring their bikes to schools or police sta-
tions for taping.

The Bicycle Institute of America, another active organi-

 

I‘Taken the American Automobile Association.

254'

BE SURE YOUR HEAD AND
TAIL LIGHTS ARE IN GOOD ORDER,

YOUR BRAKE IN A-I CONDITION

zation working for bicycle safety, has released a twenty-
minute film, “Bicycling Safety Today,” which already has
been seen by millions of cyclists in classrooms, bicycle
clubs and Scout troop meetings. The film is available on
loan to organizations without charge. You can arrange to
show it before your own bike group by writing to the
Bicycle Institute of America, 122 E. 42nd Street, New
York 17, New York. (See RECREATION, October 1950.)
Does your town need its eyes Opened to the necessity
for safer bike riding? Perhaps your bike club can start
a model safety campaign. The BIA has found that a safety
drive must have the full-fledged support of the entire c01n~
munity before it can succeed. You will need cooperation
from the schools and police department, the “Y’s” Scout

DON’T RIDE FRIENDS
ON HANDLEBARS

OR CROSSBARS

WALK YOUR BIKE ACROSS
HEAVY TRAFFIC

 

troops and civic and fratcrnal organizations. Scheduling
a full week of activities to make yours the “Safest Cycling
City” will give the drive a dramatic slogan. This should
appeal particularly to newspaper editors and radio pro-
gram directors. Once a model safety campaign has become
a community project, newspapers will generally give day-
by-day coverage to the activities. Perhaps you can per-
suade your local newspaper to run a picture story illustrat-
ing the do’s and don’t’s of safe cycling.

The following rules were drawn up by a group of bike
safety experts working with the BIA:
1. Observe all traIlic regulations—red and green lights,
one-way streets, stop signs.

2. Keep to the right and ride in a single file. Keep a safe

RECREATION

Most remaining
cycle paths go
r o u n d a n d
round in a city
p a r k. L e f t :

scene in Central
Park, New York.

 

distance behind all vehicles.

3. Have white light on front and danger signal on rear
for night driving. Wear white or light-colored clothing at
night.

4. Havc satisfactory signaling device to warn of approach.
Always ride at a safe speed.

5. Give pedestrians the right of way. Avoid sidewalks—
otherwise use extra care.

6. Look out for cars pulling into traflic. Keep sharp look-
out for sudden opening of automobile doors.

7. Never hitch on other vehicles. Never “stunt” or race in
traffic. Never ride two on a bicycle.

8. Never carry other riders; carry no packages which ob-
struct vision or prevent proper control of the cycle.

9. Be sure that your brakes are operating efiiciently, and
keep your bicycle in perfect running condition.

10. Slow down at all street intersections and look to the
right and left before crossing.

11. Always use your hand signals for turning and stop-
ping. For a left turn, the left arm should be straight out;
for a right turn, the arm should be straight up.

12. Ride in a straight line. Do not weave in and out of
traffic or move from side to side.

These rules should be repeated over and over again dur-
ing “Safety Cycling Week.”

In Washington, D. C., the AAA, with the cooperation
of the police department, the department of parks and the
Washington Traflic Safety Council, puts on a bike “rodeo”
once a year to teach cycling safety. It is held in one of the
parks in early spring and is a big day for cyclists in
Washington. More than four thousand bring their bikes
for safety inspection. Then, to show their skill, they com-
pete in stiff riding tests designed by the police department.
The most skillful and safety-minded are awarded prizes—
usually bicycle accessories.

Your bike rodeo may be held in a park or stadium. Like
the annual field day in Washington, it may start with riders
lined up for bike inspection, which can be carried out

OCTOBER 1951

by members of the police department or by Scout leaders.
Bikes should be checked carefully for prOper safety de-
vices and particularly to see that they are in good con-
dition. Inspectors also should check for loose saddles or
handlebars, tires which are not cemented to the rim, broken
or loose wheelspokes or worn-out pedal threads.

Safety officers or Scout leaders may be the judges for
the skill tests as well. Popular interest will greatly be
stimulated if tests are conducted as contests, with prizcs
for the winners.

For greater efficiency, contestants should be divided
into groups of about ten each. For equipment, a tape
measure, chalk, white paint, twelve yellow boxes (two by
four by four inches), four stanchions or boxes about
eighteen inches high, a stop watch and score cards are
needed.

The following tests are exciting to watch and a good
test of skill for every contestant:

1. Balancing at slow speed. Mark a three-foot-wide lane
with white chalk and ask each rider to negotiate a fifty-
foot length at the slowest possible speed while staying
within the lines.

2. Steering. Have contestants ride their bikes between
parallel lines four inches apart without veering into small
blocks placed every foot on each side of the lines.

3. Circle riding. Draw two circles, one with a radius of
nine feet and the other inside the first with a radius of
seven feet. To pass the circling test, the rider must negoti-
ate the circles at normal speed, keeping within the two.
4. Braking. Here the cyclist must ride at high speed from
one end of the testing area to the other until one of the
judges suddenly commands him to stop. If he has good

 

Many safety councils stage bike rodeos to teach cycle safety.
The Obstacle DrOp—a rodeo event—can develOp speed, accuracy.

255

bl

brakes and control of his wheel, he should be able to
stop in a bike length.

5. Maneuverability. Boxes or stanchions should be placed
in a straight line, about twenty to twenty-five feet apart,
on a fifty-yard course. Each rider must negotiate the course
at normal speed, weaving in and out of the boxes without
touching them.

The rodeo can end with short bicycle races for differ-
ent age groups. To qualify for prizes, contestants in the
race must observe all safety rules while winning. The races
can be varied to include straight speed, slow-motion and
relay.

The many cities which have staged this kind of all-out
safety campaign have successfully reduced the number of
accidents involving bicycles. Such drives have kept the en-
tire community interested in safety first on a year-round
basis.

Cyclists today are paying more and more attention to
safety regulations, as can be seen from statistics. Although
the number of bike riders has more than doubled in the
last ten years, the percentage of road accidents involving
bikes has gone down steadily. Bike riding, in spite of
twenty-five thousand accidents and five hundred deaths
annually, has become the nation’s safest sport per partici-
panL

In thousands of communities, bike riders, police oHieials,
educators and civic groups are campaigning to make ey-

cling even safer. If your city does not have a special ordi-
nance regulating bicycles, your bike club can work with
other groups to draw up one. The ordinance should give
police the responsibility for seeing that cyclists obey traffic
rules. It should require licensing of bicycles (see that the
registration fee is small), with regular inspection of
bikes and testing of riders . . . and might include the
kind of junior bicycle court that has worked so well
in Bloomfield and in other cities. It might also provide
courses in safety in the grade and high schools. Don’t
forget to include in your ordinance that motorists should
be required to respect the right of bicycles on the roads.

Demands for safety lanes along the nation’s highways
seem to be increasing. Almost the only paths now Open
to America’s cyclists go round and round in city parks.
All of us will agree that cyclists should have their own
lanes running along the nation’s highways. Most European
countries have such special lanes for bicycles. Safety lanes
reduce the number of accidents to a minimum and cost
no more than the unimaginative park variety!

For such lanes we must depend upon the road builders
of the future. The job today is to impress the public, and
eSpecially our law makers, with the need for giving bi-
cycles a break on the highways. Millions of us cyclists
are eagerly awaiting the day when we can mount our
bikes and follow the lanes down some of America’s most
beautiful and scenic highways.

 

Square Dance Records with Progressive Oral

No One There

On Halloween the spooks turn out;
On every corner there’s a shout,
And sometimes when you turn about,

There's no one there!

instructions and Calls by ED DURLACHER
Here is the easy and economical way to meet the

ever-growing demand for square dancing in your
. the HONOR YOUR PARTNER

community . .

On Halloween the ghosts [loat by.

And witehes fill the moonlit sky.

series of square dancc records.
15? 19.? 19.?

Each record in albums 1 to 4 starts with simpli-
fied progressive oral instructions by Ed Durlaeher

—instructions easily understood by dancers of all
ages. Followin a brief pause, giving the danccrs time to square thcir sets, the

music, and ea s begin. The TOP HANDS, directed by FRANK NOVAK, offer
the best in scintillating and foot tapping square dance music. The calls are de-

livered by one of the nation’s mgrst outgtandjgg callers, ED DURLACHER.

The fifth album in the series contains music only, without calls or instructions—
“The Square Dance Caller's Delight”.

PROVEN SUCCESS

HONOR YOUR PARTNER albums are being used with enthusiastic acclaim

by Recreation Supervisors in schools, colle res, camps, teen-age clubs, 4-H groups,
Crangc Halls, Veterans Administration ospitals, and recreation departments
across the nation.

All records are guaranteed against breakage, in normal use.
You’ll want to learn more about the HONOR YOUR PARTNER albums.

Write taday far a descriptive folder.

HouoavooR PARTNER

SQUARE DANCE ASSOCIATES

FREEPORT, NEW YORK

 

256

But when you hear an eerie ery,

Tltere’s no one there!

On Halloween the black eats howl,
And big-eyed owls to-whit and yowl,
But when you look to see things prowl,

There’s no one there!

On Halloween——that magie night-
We just expect to see a sight,
And know that we will get a fright,

With no one there!

—Helen Kitchell Evans

Reprinted from Junior Arts and Activities.

RECREATION

A County Protects Its
Forest Preserves

o The forest preserves in
C o o k County, Illinois,
n _:_-=Ic...whicll cover 38,420 acres,
have long been recognized as among
the outstanding recreation resources in
the United States. Within these pre-
serves have been developed bridle
trails, picnic centers, golf courses,
swimming pools, day camps, playfields
and other facilities which serve the
needs of people in the Chicago region.

The basic statute under which for-
est preserve districts are organized pro-
vides that boards of forest preserve
commissioners have the power “to ac-
quire and hold lands containing one or
more natural forests—or lands con-
necting such forests——for the purpose
of protecting and preserving the flora,
fauna and scenic beauties and to re-
store, restock, protect and preserve the
natural forests . . . for the purpose of
education, pleasure and recreation of
the public.”
tion of lands, their development, main-
tenance and operation in the forest
preserve district, must be added the
very difficult and constant effort re-
quired in holding the lands for the
purpose for which they were pur-
chased in the first place.

To the work of acquisi-

OCTOBER 1951

Policies governing the administra-
tion of the district have been adopted
by the twelve members comprising the
Board of Forest Preserve Commission-
ers of Cook County. The objectives in
the making and keeping of policy have
been described by the chairman as fol-
lows: “Policies, well made and well
kept, are the foundation and guide to
the administration of the forest pre-
serve district. Through our policies,
we maintain the sense of direction from
a literal interpretation of the basic
statute or charter. We insure that our
land acquisition program is well
planned and properly executed; that
our lands are held and not dissipated
by allocation to various and sundry
other purposes than for which ac-
quired; that our development program
is simple and confined to the purposes
announced in the charter; that special
privilege to individuals and organiza-
tions is denied and that all our citi-
zens arc treated equally; that p0pular
opportunism is disregarded; that all
possible effort is made to improve the
quality and diversity of use by Cook
County citizens through a broad edu-
cational program of notable success;
that through policies well made and

 
    
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

0 Park and recreation author-
ities frequently must resist
pr0posals for the diversion of
park lands to other uses or for
the granting of privileges on
park properties to special
groups. The land policies
adopted by the Cook County
Forest Preserve District, and
its procedure in dealing with
such proposals, afford an ex-
cellent example to park and
recreation agencies. This arti-
cle is based upon a report en-
titled “Land Policy,” issued
by the district board.

well kept, we insure economy of opera-
tion and development; that the forest,
with its cultural, sociological and spir-
itual values, is paramount.”*

In December 1926, an advisory com-
mittee to the Forest Preserve Commis-
sioners was appointed. Since then, this
group of citizens has given freely of
time and wide experience in working
with the Board of Forest Preserve
Commissioners in selection of lands
for acquisition, in appropriate plans for
development and in the definition of
policies which have contributed im-
measurably in maintaining the sense
of direction of the work of the dis-
trict. Moreover, the committee has
joined with the board in providing the
very genuine and essential courage
and foresight required to purchase
lands far ahead of their need, guided
by a plan of acquisition based upon
intelligent population forecasts, socio-
logical studies and sound land plan-
ning.

This committee is notableofor its
length and continuity of service and
for its insistence upon maintaining it-
self in a purely advisory capacity.

* Land Policy, Forest Preserve District, Cook
County, Illinois. 1950.

257

Through this cooperation, the board
has purchased only lands which fit into
a sound general plan; it has avoided
the pitfalls of opportunism by not giv-
ing way to many and constant demands
for special privileges and, particularly,
it has maintained a policy of holding
the land purchased, preventing the dis-
lnembering of a well-conceived acquisi-
tion plan.

The value of the service rendered by
the advisory committee in making an
impartial review of demands upon the
Forest Preserve Commissioners and in
submitting recommendations for offi-
cial action on them is clearly demon-
strated in “Land Policy,” issued in
1950. The high regard in which these
recommendations are held by the coun-
ty officials is indicated by the fact that
all of those mentioned in “Land Pol-
icy” were unanimously approved and
adopted by the commissioners.

An early report of the committee,
issued in 1928, following its review of
the policy regarding disposal of forest
preserve lands for other uses, con-
tained the following:

“The commissioners are importuned
constantly to grant special privileges
to organizations of all kinds by allot-
ting to them a house or cabin, a spe-
cial tract of forest preserve land for
airplane hangars, a site for a livery
stable, school building, hospital, dance
hall, theatre, cemetery, private museum
and many other structures and uses not
actually a definite function of the pre-
serves. The granting of such special
privileges is in direct violation of the
purposes of the preserves and of the
law. Although there are many worthy
causes among those for which special
arrangements are asked, none should
be allowed on forest preserve property.
There is plenty of land adjacent to the
forest preserves for such uses and
buildings so that those seeking benefit
may have full use of the preserves with-
out usurping public property for pri-
vate buildings and uses.”

In a subsequent report, comments
are made upon the soundness of the
commissioners’ land policy. “It is also
the fact that, by far, the majority of
the property tax for servicing of land
acquisition bonds is collected within
the city of Chicago. The severance of
one parcel in the interest of a relatively

258

I
ll '_' r
’i

' \ f

l‘.
i! . .41 "

 

Wheaton Pool—one of three modern pools with bath houses, treated recirculated
water, approved sanitary conditions. Tree-enclosed parking is used in congested areas.

small suburban municipality is rarely, ,

if ever, compatible with the general or
total interest of all the people of the
county. And it is rarely the case that
it is impossible for the local problem to
be solved in some alternate manner.

“Should the Board of Forest Pre-
serve Commissioners release lands in-
discriminately to other public bodies,
which did not have the requisite fore-
sight and courage to plan for, and ac-
quire, properties to serve their own
needs, and by so doing furnish an easy
solution to their problems, it would
only serve to mutilate and scar what is
a very fine thing.

“Arguments t0 the effect that the for-
est preserve district holds lands which
are not in intensive use actually fail to
recognize the intent and the purpose of
the holdings as prescribed by the stat-
ute. The forests and meadows give spa-
ciousness to the metr0politan scene
where it is badly needed; they serve to
dress the appearance of the entire re-
gion, to give dignity to, and support
the pride of, the localities in which
they lie, and to recreate and educate
the entire citizenry, from young to old.

“The valuation basis under which
certain properties have heretofore been
severed from the forest preserve and
acquired by other public bodies has

been, by custom, the amount per acre
paid for the original land purchase,
plus ten per cent, plus the value of
any improvements which have been
made. This basis does not appear to be
fair to the forest preserve fiscal ac-
counts, and it has the definitc effect of
inviting municipalities and other pub-
lic bodies to select forest preservc
lands for their uses and request their
severance as an economy measure for
their own purposes.”

In accordance with recommenda-
tions by the advisory committee, in
1947 the Forest Preserve Board adopt-
ed the following:

“Now therefore be it resolved, that
the Forest Preserve Commissioners, in
the discharge of their statutory duty,
reafiirm and strengthen their long
standing policy to the effect that forest
preserve lands were acquired for one
purpose only, that under the law no
power is granted the district to divest
itself of title to such lands, that the
said properties are increasing constant-
ly in value for the purposc for which
they were acquired, and that the con-
tinuous acquisition of additional lands
in the Comprehensive Plan will be
jeopardized by any severance from the
present holdings; and

“Be it further resolved, that no sev-

RECREATION

erance of such lands shall be made for
other municipal, school, park and sim-
ilar public uses for which such public
bodies have power to finance and ac-
quire needed lands, and

“Be it further resolved, that where
the rare exception may arise under
which a public agency persists in con-
demnation of forest preserve property,
the Board of Forest Preserve Commis-
sioners may ask for an exhaustive an-
alysis and report on the matter by the
advisory committee. In general, the
forest preserve district shall resist,
rather than accede, in such action, in
court, and shall place in evidence such
exhaustive survey and report, together
with the current appraised value of the
full, fair market value of the land, the
forest and of any improvements; and

“Be it further resolved, that for es-
sential highway needs, for essential
sewer, water, or other public utility,
undcrground, surface or overhead im-
provements required in the interest of
all the public, the district may accede
to such grants, in court, or otherwise,
on the basis of the full, fair market
value of the property required.”

A number of the requests for the
use or transfer of forest preserve prop-
erty are described in “Land Policy.”
American Legion and AMVETS posts
have wished to build a clubhouse on
forest preserve property, to purchase
forest land for a clubhouse site or to
use a park building as a post head-
quarters. The War Department, which
was granted temporary use of a site
for atomic research during the second
World War, wished to acquire 265
acres in the forest preserves as a per-
manent site for a national atomic re-
search laboratory. A sports club re-
quested permission to erect a clubhouse
and develop facilities for trapshooting
and other activities for the use of its
members. One village requested that
parts of an area occupied by the dis-
trict headquarters office, tennis courts,
bird sanctuary and wooded park be
made available for automobile park-
ing. Another requested the use of for-
est property for a local recreation cen-
ter and playground. School authorities
asked that parcels be granted for junior
and senior high school sites. Attempts
were made to secure approval of drives
to eliminate crows, foxes and other
predatory animals from park property.

OCTOBER 1951

Dcdication of land for an armory to
house tank units of the National Guard
was another request.

The advisory committee, after re-
viewing these requests, recommended
that they not be granted. Among the
reasons given for such action are many
that could bc applied equally by park
and recreation authorities in dealing
with similar requests.

“The splendid land holdings of thc
district constitute one of the finest ex-
amples of intelligent planning and use
of land in a metropolitan area, any-
where in the entire world. Their size,
the quality of the property and their
careful restoration and retention in a
natural state, together with their ac-
cessibility, are unparalleled. The spe-
ciHc site is close to the center of one
of the finest and undoubtedly the larg-
est of the county forest preserves,
which was carefully planned and ac-
quired to incorporate these particular
hills and valleys, a topography which
is rare in Cook County. It includes
certain forested and native meadow or
prairie areas which are unique, and
which, as mentioned above, are of un-
usual value to the citizens of our coun-
ty. Their value cannot be measured in
terms of dollars or with reference to

any current real estate market.”
“It would be unthinkable that lands

acquired for forest preserve purposes
be diverted from that use to allow the
establishment of either a free or com-
mercial automobile parking lot on any
part of Cummings Square. Under the
forest preserve law, this tract was ac-
quired for forest preserve purposes
only, and its use for other purposes
would be in violation of the law and
in direct disregard of the legal pur-
pose for which the land was acquired.”
“There could not be a more complete
use of property for the basic legal pur-
poses of the forest preserve district
than that of maintaining this unusually
fine forested area with all of its un-
dercover of young forest trees, shrubs,
flowers and other plant life, together
with native animal and bird life.
“Abandonment of this forested tract
in the interest of a public school site
would irreparably damage a portion of
the forest preserve which has been ac-
quired by and for all the people of
Cook County. It would be a violation
of the legal responsibility of the com-

missioners to protect and preserve such
forest lands.”

“The request of the sports club for
the establishmcnt of a clubhouse, if
granted, would authorize to a restricted
group of club members and friends thc
use of the public forest preserve in a
manner and for purposes which are not
contemplated by the law under which
the forest prcscrves arc creatcd.”

“It is entirely beyond the power of
the forest preserve district to grant to
a village or to others the exclusive right
to utilize or to develop forest preserve
lands which were acquired for a spe-
cific legal purpose and for use by all
the peOple.”

“The River Forest School Board is

in error throughout its communication
in referring to forest preserve lands as
being ‘available.’

“Your advisory committee believes
that the necessity and convenience for
the use of any of these forest preserve
lands for school purposes at River For-
est cannot be established; that the
School Board is capable of selecting
and developing some alternate site or
sites for school buildings and for recre-
ation facilities; and that, if the matter
were to be taken to court, the Board of
Forest Preserve Commissioners should
undertake to defend its position with
every resource at its command.”

“This proposal is still another indi-
cation that many municipalities, park
districts, sanitary districts and others
look upon forest preserve property as
a reservoir of land from which can be
carved out any portion desired at the
moment for purposes other than those
for which they were acquired under
law.”

The advisory committee, in its rec-
ommendations to the Forest Preserve
Commissioners, gives evidence that the
matters under investigation have re-
ceived thorough attention. In several
instances, the committee has offered
helpful suggestions as to alternate ways
by which the proposed projects—unmany
of which are commendable—might be
carried out. Furthermore, it has not
always disapproved proposals. It rec-
ommended, for example, that a request
from the United States Corps of En-
gineers, for authority to place excava-
tion from the drainage canal upon for-
est land, be granted, with qualifica-

259

tions. lt pointed out: “It is important
to draw attention to the fact that in no
way would any part of the forest pre-
serve holdings be devoted to other uses
not contemplated in the forest preserve
statutc, but that the changes proposed
to he made would he with respect to
topography only.”

In another instance, the acquisition
plan was modified at the request of vil-
lage authorities when it was shown that
need for certain properties was no
longer existent. In a third case, the

committee, in recommending that a
petition he denied. pointed out that if
ehanging conditions should call for
such action. the authorities would re-
consider thcir decision.

The value to the Forest Preserve
Commissioners of the services rendered
by the advisory committee is illustrated
by the fact that, in a two-year period,
requests were received by them for the
allocation of more than four hundred
acres of forest holdings to organiza-
tions, municipalities, park districts,

school districts and others. lievicw of
these well-meant demands by the com-
mittee has helped to remove from the
ollieial hoard pressure for approval and
criticism when rcqucsts have been de—
nicd. The citizens of Cook County have
reason to be grateful that their Forest
Preserve Commissioners are so zcalous-
ly carrying out the duties imposed up-
on them in the acquisition, improve-
ment and protection of their forests—a
great cultural asset for the benefit of

all the people.

 

Donald B. Dyer

. Emergency Game Kits

 

for Air Raid Shelters

 

MERGENCY RECREATION KITS are being prepared in the

social centers of the Milwaukee Department of Munici-
pal Recreation in preparation for air raids or alerts in
this industrial center. These primarily are for air-raid
shelters in schools, social centers and recreation buildings,
while similar types of kits have been recommended for
homes, apartment buildings and offices.

The recreation emergency storage box is three-feet

 

The following supplies are included:

square, two-and-one half feet high, and on rollers. In an Checkers punks paperoand Chalk
emergency, a trained recreation leader can wheel the game flommoes bOOkS mOdehong Clay
box out of its storage place and start a play program. Jacks crayons lnagaszn’s
It is suggested that these game kits be stored and used Chess bean bags to): muslcal
only for emergency purposes. balloons crossword puzzles Instruments
Game materials might also be stored in cabinets in the cabbage boards battery-Operated quous
air_raid Shelter areas. song leaflets radio shuffleboard
whistles rubber balls square dance
mechanical cut-outs records
record player jumping ropes quiz contests
building kits scissors wooden pins
paste first-aid book pcncils
DONALD DYER is director of recreation, Milwaukee, Wis. Scotchlape card games punch

260 RECREATION

Mrs. William Hindson

BOY MEETS GIRL
in Couple Shoot

“DOWN IN LOUISIANA, wherc the

bayous How”——which might be
paraphrascd “where the arrows fly”—
thcre are two public schools with fu-
ture archery champs in the making. In
New Orleans, students of the McMain
Girls High School and the Fortier Boys
High School practice, as soon as school
opens in September, for the annual
couple shoot, during which the Fortier
Tarpons play host to the girls of Mc-
Main.

Twelve archers from each club are
selected by three qualifying scores and
then are divided into groups of four
couplcs each, as follows: In group one,
the experienced archers, the best archer
of the boys is coupled with the fourth
highest girl for scoring purposes, the
sccond highest boy shoots with the
third ranking girl, the third boy with
the second highest girl and the first
girl is paired off with the fourth boy.
This practice assures a fairly even

 

OCTOBER 1951

matching of ability in thc couples
shooting.

The same arrangement is followed
by groups two and three, except that
their members are limited to beginners
or first-year archers. There is an award
for each couple who scorcs highest in
his and her group, combining the
scores of the partners to determine the
winners. Awards consist of felt em-
blems, which are proudly displayed on
the jerkins of the six winning archers.

In school archery, especially during
football season in the South, where
there is no indoor range, the sport
must give way to other team events
and use space not required by them.
Thus the couple shoot last year was
held in the quadrangle, a large yard
surrounded by bicycle sheds and exits
from the school buildings. Here is
where Fortier called upon its military
unit, the C-55’s (who are in line for
ROTC), for assistance. To insure safe-

A mark to shoot at!
Here’s an army
man demonstrating
good fo r m . \Vhy
not give it a try
with your young
service groups?

 

Teen-agers help each other improve
shooting form. Tcela-Wooket Camp.

ty, twelve cadets werc stationed at
exits and entrances to see that no one
entered the shooting range while the
archers were in action. The cadets also
served as a Welcoming committee to
the students in the audience during the
contest. Ice-cream was served to both
archers and observers during intermis-
sion. Because of a time limit—three
o’clock to five—the number of ends
was limited to two practice ends (an
end is six arrows) and five scoring
ends. Programs were issued by the
cadet captains.

Safety is our first and last concern in
this ancient sport of archery, and stu-
dents released arrows only after the
all-clear whistle was sounded. Two
whistles warn that shooting must stop
either for a hanging arrow or for
emergency.

Our couple shoots are held not to
crown champions, but to deve10p good
sportsmanship, healthful recreation and
the skillful use of muscles in proper
coordination. The sport of archery is
increasing in its popularity every day-—
and we are having fun! Why don’t
you sponsor a couple shoot for your
teen-agers?

AUTHOR teaches archery in New 0r-
leans; with husband’s aid directs the
recreation department’s fine archery
program.

261

J. Campbell Bruce

WANT A GOOD JOB WITH NO PAY?

HUSKY BILL KILPATRICK was applying for a job.

“We expect you to be punctual and dependable, to
respect confidence and shun gossip, to take pride in what
you’re doing,” the interviewer said. “In other words, con-
sider it the same as any other job you’ve ever had, except
that it carries no pay.”

Kilpatrick, a good union man, didn’t hat an eye. “Good,”
he said.

Kilpatrick wasn’t “off his rocker”; he was joining a re-
lnarkable movement: volunteering. The scene, repeated
daily in cities across the country, was taking place at the
volunteer bureau of San Francisco, where people of all
occupations, from household domestics to corporation ex-
ecutives, can obtain a job that pays nothing—except the
thrill of doing for others. As the bureau slogan defines it:
“It’s a wonderful feeling . . . lending a helping hand!”

Wageless workers, such as Bill Kilpatrick, perform a
thousand chores. They stuff the enveIOpes that bring your
Christmas seals; they staff civil defense offices; they help
ncwly-arrived foreigners adapt themselves to American
customs; they make sports and hobbies more alluring than
street gangs to the neighborhood youngsters; and do the
tcdious tasks at health clinics. In short, they play an in-
timate, vital part in making modern community life fuller
and richer.

“Modern urban civilization has made helpless strangers
of the big city dwellers,” psychologist Harry A. Overstreet,
himself a volunteer speakcr, told a gathering of San Fran-
cisco volunteer workers last year. “But out of the city’s
impersonality is coming a new kind of neighborlincss, the
neighborliness of those who band together in a common
interest of specialized service.”

There are now volunteer bureaus in eighty-five cities of
the United States and Canada. Oldest is in Boston. In El
Paso, fourteen WACS volunteered their spare time to build
a house for the family of a child with cerehral palsy.
Girl Scouts of Maplewood, New Jersey, baby-sat whilc
mothers went to the blood bank.

San Francisco’s bureau is typical in most respects, ex-
cept that it is the only bureau adopted officially by the

262

Many municipal recreation departments, as we all know,
utilize the cooperation, skills and enthusiasms of interested
citizens, often recruiting their own volunteers, through local
publicity, and supplying training and supervision. (See

“Partners on the Job”. and “A Volunteer Success Story”

—RECREAT10N, May 1950.) However, some recreation lead—
ers will be surprised at this picture of the widespread use
of volunteers by other agencies.—~—Ed.

 

public school system. The idea suggested itself to thc
Junior League of San Francisco as a means of channeling
the extensive volunteer effort of World War II into peace-
time pursuits. Under the dynamic leadership of Mrs.
George V. Kulchar and Mrs. Hilda Penn, the bureau
opened shop in 1946, undcr joint sponsorship of the league
and Community Chest. Then the Chest, hitting a bad
year in 1948, asked that it seek another partncr.

“That was a terrible blow,” Mrs. Kulchar recalls. “\Vc’d
just gotten on a solid footing.”

However, the board of education incorporated lhc bu-
reau into its adult education program; and the bureau
moved into a reconverted classroom of Galilee High
School. Put on a broad community basis, it grcw Spec-
tacularly and recently signed up its fivc thousandth vol-
unteer. Workers put in nearly three hundred thousand
man-hours last year.

To see how the bureau functions, let’s pick up Bill Kil-
patrick again. Now in his middle fiftics, Kilpatrick is
sccretary of the cooks union and normally spcnds a very
busy day at his office. One morning he became intercsted
in a publicity story about the volunteer bureau. Aftcr
work, he drove to Galilee High School and was interviewed
by Mrs. Samuel Bonar, herself a spccially traincd vol-
unteer.

“I’vc always wanted to do something like this,” Kil-
patrick said, “but I never knew where to go.”

Mrs. Bonar jotted down his skills, hobbies, desires. She
underscored this desire: to work with undcrprivileged
boys; and this skill: once a prichighter.

A week after his card was filed, a rcquest came for a

RECREATION

boxing instructor at Mission Community Center in a
ncighborhood notorious for juvenilc gangs. Bill Kilpatrick
agreed to take the job. He then enrolled in a brief orienta-
tion course on the purpose of community centers and the
duties of a boys’ group leader.

He now teaches boxing to more than a score of young-
sters, aged ten to fifteen years. Saturdays he takes them to
his private rowing club for a day on, and in, the water.
And he has interested Mission district merchants in a plan
to equip the community center with a regulation ring.

“All I teach is self-defense,” says Kilpatrick. “Prize
ring ambitions are discouraged. But a man who can defend
himself is a man with confidence. At first, the boys shied
away; now they’re out on the corner waiting for me. I
look forward to that thrill.”

Other volunteers catch this spirit. Jack Gregson, radio
disc jockey and one-time football star, was detailed to a
Latin-American boys club because he spoke a little Span-
ish. He became so enthusiastic that, when later transferred
to Los Angeles, he commuted by plane evcry week end to
teach the group radio techniques.

Only a bona-fide agency, engaged in some phase of com-
munity welfare, can request a volunteer. New organiza-
tions are carefully investigated. Even an established agency
must meet rigid standards: it must provide on-the-job
training, good working conditions and responsible super-
vision. There is full union cooperation, because an agency
cannot request a volunteer to fill a job calling for a paid
worker.

The board of education plays a dual role: it furnishcs
quarters for the bureau and an administrative staff, con-
sisting of a director and an assistant. In addition, the
board offers refresher courses to volunteers in child care,
arts and crafts, reading to children and even public speak-
ing. The general adult education classes of the public
school system in turn provide a rich source of volunteers—-
peoplc who have acquired new skills and want to put them
-to good use.

Ingenious methods are employed to make such bureaus
known to the public. The San Francisco bureau had the
public library distribute recruiting leaflets to book borrow-
ers. A Cincinnati department store enclosed folders with
its bills, and milkmen of Orlando, Florida, left them with

the bottles. New Orleans had a “Volunteer Week,” with
a proclamation by the mayor.

The file of the volunteer bureau represents a cross-sec-
tion of community life. For example, Mrs. Joseph Ehrman,
Jr. turns her household duties over to a maid and devotes
her days to supervising volunteers in the children’s ward at
San Francisco Hospital. At a clinic in another part of
the hospital on Thursdays, you’ll find Idella Husted, maid
in a suburban home, who uses her day off to do this
extra chore. - \

Motives for volunteering vary. Some want escape from
boredom or the frustration of a humdrum job. Some seek
outlets for unused talents. Strangers in town find new
friendships. People with an emotional problem rooted in
self-pity find real therapy. But the truth is, most of them
simply wish to do a community service.

OCTOBER 1951

Take Mrs. Richard Maggard. When her baby was on

the way, she visited a clinic and saw volunteers at work.
Impressed, she now spends several mornings a week there
as a volunteer. Seeking release from cramped apartmcnt
life, Fred Buchohr, a commercial artist, called the bureau
one day. It was planning a recruitment drive at the timc
and Buchohr offered to do its posters. Now the Buchohrs
have a Wednesday night date at an orphanage—he to teach
an art class he set up; his wife, a former teacher, to help
the boys with their homework.

George Boyle is an account clerk. On Tuesday nights,
he drives out to the Fort Miley Veterans Hospital to run
a movie projector. “When I go home—well, I sleep bet-
ter.”

To older people, volunteering acts like an elixir. “A
man active all his life needs the mental and physical stimu-
lus of community service,” says Dr. J. C. Geiger, San Fran-
cisco health director.

There’s John Gilvere, eighty-two-year-old retired farmer.
“I was in a terrible spell for a while back there. Kept to
my shell like a sick turtle. Then I heard about this thing.”
Spot clerical jobs at a half-dozen agencies now keep him
husy—and spry. Carolyn Jackson, seventy-five, a retired
office manager, was assigned to take orders at CARE, but
spent the first few weeks helping to set up a new filing
system.

Equally energetic aie the younger volunteers. Leathcr-
necks stationed in San Francisco compete to take under-
privileged boys swimming. A young advertising director
set up a hobby shop for uvenile court wards, and a charm
school operator gave the wayward girls a course that did
rehabilitating wonders. A mechanic, teaching his trade to
boys at an institution, tore down a jalopy and rebuilt it
cvery week end for almost a year.

Work among the indigent sick bestows an immeasurable
reward. A public health nurse retired for age returned to
her job—a volunteer. Miss Sehabiague, fifty-six, left her
hakery job when she came into a tidy inheritance two
years ago. Ever since, she has spent three hours a day,

every weekday, at the center’s canteen.

Ethel Van Scoten, a registered nurse who resigned her
hospital job for marriage in 1921, volunteered with the
Public Health Department and has been at it steadily——
more than six thousand hours. She says: “People who
don’t do volunteer work are cheating themselves.”

“We’ve come a long way from the philosophy of the
Lady Bountiful who carried a Thanksgiving basket to the
poor family across the tracks,” says Mrs. Kulchar. “We
no longer feel that a person’s civic duty is fulfilled by a
donation to charity. Our philosophy today is to work
with people as well as for them.”

America can be proud of its Bill Kilpatricks, its Emily
Sehabiagues—and thankful that they are already reckoned
in the tens of thousands.

 

J. (FOR JOHN) CAMPBELL BRUCE writes occasional maga-
zine articles and has co-authored a play. During World War
II he served with the 0W1 in China. A newspaper man for
many years, he is now with the San Francisco Chronicle.

263

 

“Inns; MANY HOUSEWIVES in Louisville, Kentucky, are
turning to their city recreation program of arts and
crafts for amusement, their small sons and daughters are
just as enthusiastically learning how to cook. It’s really
very simple. Take a group of small boys—eager to measure
and stir—mix them well around a kitchen stove, and you
have the ingredients of a cooking class. Cooking instructor,
in this case, is Mrs. Lillian Gable, who has served in this
capacity for the last three years.

Conducted under the auspices of the Louisville Rccrea-
tion Department, many of the classes have mushroomed
to such a size that it has been necessary to divide them
into several shifts. William A. Moore, city recreation su-
pcrintcndent, is particularly gratified with the enthusiasm
of the boys, many of whom are under ten years of age.
He, himself, learned to cook at an early age, when his
mother was ill, and feels that this activity is of special value
to boys, enabling them to help at home.

While Mrs. Gable finds that the girls show an aptitude
and quickness to learn, it is the novelty of being allowed
to work in the kitchen that makes her boys’ classes the
most responsive. Each class is limited in number to fif-
teen members. Instruction is given in the kitchens of the
various recreation centers operated by the city. In order
that all future cooks can be included, another shift is estab-
lished as soon as more than fifteen wish to join a class.
The girls’ groups meet at a different hour than the boys”,
and each day of the week finds Mrs. Gahle busily instruct-
ing at a different center.

Once a year members of all classes get together at some
gala event-- -—such as the “Cookie Banquet,” held last year
at the East Louisville Center. Class members were re-
sponsihle for setting the tahle themselves and each class

MRS. CARTER is publicity supervisor in recreation division,
Department of Public Parks and Recreation, Louisville, Ky.

264

“With muffins, not baseball . . . ”

 

Boy cooks hugely enjoy privilege of scraping the bowl, and
proud of their culinary skills, take samples home to taste.

contributed a plate of their favorite cookies. Nothing too
elaborate is planned for this type of get-together, where
so many members will be present, but the individual cook-
ing classcs frequently give elaborate banquets for their
mothers, similar to the one given by the Parkland Recre-
ation Center last Mother’s Day. Members not only pre-
pared an appetizing spaghetti luncheon, but also placed at
each plate a gift that had been made in an arts and
crafts class.

As soon as a beginner’s class is organized and the roll
taken, Mrs. Gablc begins a discussion of safety in the
kitchen. She describes the proper lighting of the stove, the
necessity of keeping the face and head away from the oven

RECREATION

George-Anna Carter

while lighting it and of seeing that matches are properly
extinguished under the water faucet. Youngsters are en-
couraged to remove carefully any broken glass from the
kitchen and to see that sharp knives always are kept in a
safe place. The importance of clean hands and finger nails
also is stressed. Class members later have been observed
inspecting each others’ hands and eagerly explaining thc
need for cleanliness to any latecomers.

While washing dishes is usually considered one of the
more unpleasant duties of cooking, teamwork seems to
make it enjoyable, especially if two or three are appointed
to this duty a week in advance.

When the class project is in the actual cooking process
and there is nothing to do but wait, there is an opportunity
for a discussion of what will be cooked the following week.
When members have mentioned several things that the)
would like to make, a vote is taken and the recipe then
studied. Other activities dcsigned to fill in the waiting timc
include writing the recipe in a little book made for Mother
in an arts and crafts class, discussing nutrition or telling
stories.

interest was greatly increased when each class member
was asked to be responsible for bringing one ingredient for
the next project. The recreation department supplies certain
staples—such as baking powder, flour and sugar—but it is
a t1'cmendous help to the budget, and makes more cooking
classes possible, when members themselves supply other
ingredients.

Also contributing to the keeping down of expenses is a
generous neighborhood hutcher who is only too glad to
donate a large soup bone whenever needed. Vegetable
soup has proved an excellent class project, for it not only
gives the youngsters a chance to contribute some of
Mother’s leftovers, but also keeps each one busy with
something to do. The long amount of time required for
simmering also gives the group a pleasant wait during
which they may play quiet games, such as a word guessing
game pertaining to cooking.

It has been found that the keynote of a successful cook»
ing class is in allowing each memher to participate. No
matter how small and insignificant the task may seem, it is
important that the youngster be allowed to do it himself.
Frequently, the task of hreaking eggs into a bowl is given
to one member, beating them to another, adding the eggs
to the other ingredients to another and so on. When the
class is unusually crowded, Mrs. Cable may divide a tea-
spoon of salt into thirds, allowing each member to con-

OCTOBER 1951

No detail is too insignificant to
escape attention when learning
to prepare breakfast for Mother
on Sunday.

Recreation is the word for it!

One time when a feller can’t
kick about the cook. These

were his own ideas.

tribute his third to make the necessary teaspoonful.

Simple recipes have proved best in all cooking classes,
especially those such as candy, which do not require too
much sugar or other expensive ingredients. Whenever
possible, Mrs. Cable has encouraged fewer sweets and more
food of a nutritive value. One of the combinations which
she had a little difficulty in discouraging was the boys’
frequent demands for chili and cocoa.

To stimulate interest, she frequently brings magazine
clippings of well-balanced combinations and, whenever

265

 

possible, a pictorial example of the next week’s project.

One of her favorite recipes for a beginning class is the
following:

TEA MUFFLN'S

Hi eups sifted flour 1/: cup sugar
lei teaspoon salt 1 egg
3 teaspoons baking powder V1 eup melted shortening
5% cup milk

Sift flour with salt, baking powder and sugar. Mix eggs,
melted shortening and milk together. Add to dry ingredi-
ents. Mix enough to dampen them and place in greased
muflin tins. Bake in 400° oven for twenty-five minutes.

While cream puffs may sound a bit more complicated, the
instructor has reduced their preparation to such simplicity
that the boys have never had a failure.

CREAM PUFFS

1 cup sifted Hour 1 eup boiling water
l/é cup butter or shortening 4 eggs

Melt shortening in boiling water. Bring to boil. Reduce
heat. Add flour all at once, stirring fast. Cook and stir
constantly until mixture leaves sides of pan. Remove from
stove and beat in eggs one at a time. Beat hard and drop
from teaspoon onto greased baking sheet. Bake in 425°
oven for thirty minutes. Cool; slice in half and fill with
any type standard vanilla pudding.

Apple turnovers have brought an enthusiastic “ummmm”
from all concerned when the following recipe is used:

PIE CRUST

2 cups sifted flour 2/3 cup shortening
1/1 teaSpoon salt 5 or 6 tablespoons cold water

Sift dry ingredients; add shortening and cut with two

knives until fine as coarse corn meal. Add water and mix
just enough to hold together. Divide into four pieces; roll
as for small pic. Put apple mixture in center. Wet edges.
bring together and seal at top.

APPLE MIXTURE

1 tablespoon butter
Little cinnamon

2 large apples
’4 eup sugar

Peel and slice apples. Mix with sugar, butter and cin-
namon.

Biscuits are always a “he man” favorite and the boys
love to turn biscuit-making into a real party with the added
attraction of a jar of jam and some olcomargarine:

BISCUITS

2 cups sifted Hour 1A: teaspoon salt
4 teaSpoons baking powder 4 tablespoons shortening
‘34 cup milk

Sift dry ingredients; cut in shortening with two knives.
Add milk to make dough soft. Roll out 1/4 inch thick and
cut with biscuit cutter. Bake in 475° oven for twelve min-
utes.

Other successful dishes have been corn muffins, pan-
cakes, doughnuts, rice custard, tapioca pudding, oatmeal
and popcorn balls.

The youngsters enjoy the cooking classes for a number of
reasons, one of them being that they can always save a
bite to take home to Mother, explaining exactly how it was
cooked. Too, there always is the ritual of bringing a
sample of their latest culinary art to the center director
for his approval.

 

Taking Advantage of Television

0 Recreation authorities have expressed concern as to the
effect which the popularity of television may have upon
their programs. (See editorial by Wayne Coy, September
1951 RECREATION—Ed.) Los Angeles is one of the cities
where the recreation department is taking advantage of
this popularity to call attention to its activities and serv-
ices. Several television programs regularly are scheduled
by the local recreation and park department. In addition
to weekly radio broadcasts, the following television and
radio programs were announced in the department’s week-

ly bulletin, dated January 4, 1951.

Television:

1. “Your City at Play”-——telecast from Griflith Play-
ground from eleven-thirty a.m. to twelve-thirty p.m. This
one-hour program covers the whole recreation pr0gram
offered by the department, with emphasis upon special
events and seasonal or holiday attractions. The programs
are arranged by Arthur Chase, recreation director.

2. “Just Kids”—Saturdays, from one to two p.m. The

activities of the department are depicted by the appear-
ance, in “Chubby” Roland’s “backyard,” of children from

various city playgrounds.

3. “Children Should Be Heard”—Sundays, from five to
five-thirty p.m. Specimens from Griffith Park Zoo and

266

Cabrillo Beach Marine Museum are the “stars” of this
program on alternate Sundays.

4. Triple-A municipal basketball games are presented
Tuesdays and Thursdays, at nine-twenty p.m. Top-flight
basketball is telecast from the Loyola High School gym.

5. “The Bill Welsh Show”—Evelyn Conrad, director at
Robertson Playground, appears on the program each
Wednesday at nine-fifteen a.m. with recreation directors
and other members of the department’s staff to present to
televiewers the activities offered at Los Angeles’ municipal

playgrounds and other recreation centers.
6. The semi-finals and finals of the Thirty-third Annual

Los Angeles Metropolitan Tennis Championships will be
telecast on Saturday and Sunday, January 27 and 28.

Radio:

1. “The American Storybook”—Saturdays, at twelve
forty-five p.m. Stories of California’s pioneers, written and
narrated by Laura C. Munson, director at Bunker Hill

Playground.

2. “The Recreation Parade”—Tuesdays, at two p.m.
Guy L. Bushby, public relations representative, interviews
members of the department’s executive staff, district direct-
ors, directors of special facilities and others to inform the
public about the department’s facilities, programs and
services and special events.

RECREATION

 

The Jack-O’-Lantern Blew Out

A children’s party is not complete
without an eerie, scary story. Have
guests sit in a circle with the story-
teller in front. Dim lights help create
the proper atmosphere. The following
story requires that each child play a
part, such as that of witch, ghost, black
cat, owl, bat, goblin, clock in a church
tower. If the group is large, several
children may do each part. Each con-
sists of the making of a characteristic
noise and should be practiced a few
times before the story starts. There—
after, whenever the individual parts
are named, the guests provide the ap-
propriate sound effects. But whenever
the storyteller says, “The Jack-o’-lan-
tern blew out,” all make their noises
and change places.

STORY:

On a dark and windy Halloween
night, owls flew from the tree tops
across the moon just as Bobby and
Betty started down the road through
the woods. A black cat darted out from
behind a dead tree and rubbed against
Bobby’s legs. Betty grabbed his arm
and pointed to a white, fluttering ghost
which was floating off among the trees.
A cold wind blew from the graveyard
and from the church tower a witch,
with scraggly hair and flying cape,
soared across the tree tops and up to
the moon. The Jack-o’-lantern blew
out. (All change places.)

Bobby and Betty ran down the road
and turned into the lane that led to a
little brown cottage, where a light
flickered in the window. Bobby was
about to knock on the door when the
clock in the church tower struck one.
Bats flew from the tower, swooping
over the tombstones, white in the
moonlight. Then Bobby gathered his

OCTOBER 1951

courage and knocked. Three goblins
flew out of the windows. The door
slowly opened and the head and shoul-
ders of an old woman, with a hooked
nose and one front tooth, peered out.
Betty grabbed Bobby and whispered,
“She’s a witch!” '

“What do you want?”

“Please,” said Bobby, “may we have
a light for our lantern?”

“Why, of course,” said the witch
and took the J ack-o’-lantern. The black
cat umped onto her shoulder.

“Here you are, my pretties,” she
said, giving the lighted lantern to them.
She slammed the door.

Bobby and Betty ran down the lane.
Owls flew across in front of them, then
off into the woods chasing the three
goblins. Over in the graveyard, a group
of ghosts danced slowly in a circle.
Bobby and Betty ran down the road
through the darkest part of the woods
and heard the clock strike twice. They
looked down and found that the Jack-
o’-lantern had blown out again. (All
change places.)

0n they went, with only the moon-
light to guide them—011 and on, afraid
to look to the right where the ghosts
danced, or to the left where the owls
chased the goblins, or up over their
heads where the witch rode her broom-
stick, holding her black cat.

The children rounded the corner by
the big oak tree and went up the steps
to their grandmother’s front door. She
greeted them with a hug, and gave
them apples and fresh cookies.
Peanut-Packing Party

If you are going to sell peanuts at
your Halloween Carnival, declare one
of your children’s parties a “Peanut-
Packing Party” and plan the games
and properties to conform with the

theme. Materials needed to pack pea-
nuts will be: peanuts, paper sacks,
string, packing cartons and a measure
of some kind—a cup or scoop.

As children arrive, they are.assigned
to work in crews and are given identi-
fication badges, which may be made of
colored peanuts strung on raiiia or
string. They are then put to work at
the basic task of packing. When all the
guests are present, it is time to turn
plcasant work into extra fun.

The following games should suggest
others which will help get the ob done
and also be entertaining.

The Case of the Vanishing Peanuts

The yotmgsters, organized into
teams, sit upon the floor in relay posi-
tion. The head man is given a pie tin
containing a peanut for each member
of his team. As the plate is passed
down the line, each teammate removes
a peanut, shells it and returns the
shell to the plate before passing it on.
The last player has a medium-sized pa-
per sack into which he must dump the
shells. He then returns the sack and
plate to the head of the line. The pea-
nuts, of course, have vanished inside
the players by this time.

Peanut Conveyor Race

Players are again in relay forma-
tion, facing a chalk line or heavy string
which has been stretched between two
chairs, one at each end of each line.
A conveyor belt has been made by
punching holes in the top of a sack (re-
inforcing them with rings) and sus-
pending it on the string. At the head
of each line is a stack of sacked pea-
nuts; at the foot, an empty packing
carton. At a signal, the first player
of each team fills the conveyor with
one of the peanut-packed sacks and
starts it down the line——each player
moving it to his right. When it reaches
the last player, he unpacks it and re-
turns the empty conveyor in the same
manner for refilling. This action is re-
peated until all of the sacks of peanuts
are in the cartons and ready for use at
the carnival.

The Matter of Prizes

Prizes can be made in crafts classes
by assembling peanuts (coloring them,
of course) into dolls, animals, neck-
laces and other amusing articles.

Courtesy Los Angeles Department of
Recreation and Parks, California.

267

,9

“A broadening of scope . . .

HE PRIMARY PURPOSE of the school

building is to provide facilities for
the education of children. For many
years, education was thought of in
terms of the three R’s, but the curricu-
lum today includes many additional
subjects—such as art, music, wood-
work, home economics, physical edu-
cation and agriculture, to name a few.
With the broadening of the scope of
the curriculum came new and im-
proved building facilities and a new
conception of public school education
—that its function is to produce well-
adjusted individuals capable of taking
their place in our complex society.

Within very recent years, another
program has been offered to aid in the
child’s development—a program of or-
ganized, supervised play and recrea-
ation which teaches him worthwhile,
leisure-time activities and tends to de-
velop good habits for the use of leisure
hours. This program also has grown
in scope and extends beyond the
school-age child. Interests created dur-
ing school days in arts, music, dra-
matics, athletics and the like are car-
ried over into later life. The program
of public recreation meets this de-
mand to carry on these activities, as
well as to teach new skills and hobbies
and to provide opportunities for adults
generally.

The public recreation program usu-
ally is under the jurisdiction of some
public board or commission other than
the school board. As a result, where
such organization exists, school boards
and educators have argued against the
use of the school facilities. Arguments,
pro and con, may be summarized as

follows:
Against

1. School facilities are not adapted
to community activities.

2. Youth fears restraint in coming
back to school building.

3. Theft and vandalism will occur.

4. The school building is the cita-
del of the child.

Adapted from 1950 Handbook, Department
of Municipal Recreation and Adult Educa-
tion, Milwaukee Public Schools, Wisconsin.

268

For

l. ]f thc youth carried away the
fccling of rcslrainl toward the school,
wouldnit that bc an indictmcnt of our
school program and lcadcrship?

2. Thc averagc school building,
through thought and planning, can bc
made adaptable for evening use.

3. Can we cducate our citizenry to
respect public property by keeping
them out of it?

4. Discipline and respect depend up-

of thc cntire family and community
twelve months of thc ycar.

The usc of a school building for
community recreation ccrlainly is
a proper and cconomic usc of public
propcrty, climinaling duplication of
capital outlay, mainlcnancc and oper-
ating costs for a 1'ccreation building.
It brings the parents of thc children
into the building to use the same facil-
ities, developing closer relationships

between parents and the school and

School Buildings

for

Community Ilse

on leadership, influence and Well-
planned supervision.

5. Just as the church serves the fam-
ily, so should the school serve the in-
dividual for all his days and not just
for a few years.

6. Why build special recreation
buildings when the community has mil-
lions invested in school buildings and
property that can be made to fit the
community needs?

'7. The school building will yield in-
vestment returns twelve to fourteen
hours per day instead of five to six
hours.

8. There is value to the school child

in knowing that his brother, sister and
parcnts are sharing his school build-

ing.
9. Schools should be a community
service station contributing to the fare

 

building better public relations for the
school system.

Public recreation has met with p0p-
ular approval and educators are begin-
ning to recognize its value. Many
school systems are incorporating pub-
lic recreation into the school program
as a function of the educational sys-
tem. New school buildings are bcing
designed to serve not only the children,
but all of the residents of the neighbor-
hood or community.

Milwaukee, Wisconsin, has followcd
a policy of using school buildings as
neighborhood recreation centers since
1914. However, the majority of these
buildings were constructed without any
thought of neighborhood use for recrc-
ation and adult education and, there-
fore, it became necessary to adapt these
buildings for the purposes desired.

RECREATION

This called for careful planning and
ingenuity. The buildings had to be
made usable for the recreation depart-
ment and, at the same time, keep to a
minimum the number of problems aris-
ing from the joint use of rooms and
equipment by the day school staff and
recreation department personnel.

Building Adaptation

Adaptation of an old building for
community recreation purposes should
follow three guiding principles:
1. Make provision for segregating sec-
tions of the building, as desired, with
aid of strategically-placed corridor
gates.
2. Make provision for maintaining
space for activities by utilizing little
used areas in the building and class-
rooms.
3. Make provision for allotting stor-
age 'space for recreation department
equipment and supplies.

Gymnasium and Active Came Areas

Many older buildings lack a gymna-
sium, but have a large room generally
spoken of as the “assembly hall.” Such
halls can be made to meet athletic, so-
cial and entertainment needs.

Windows, lights, radiators, thermo-
stats can be protected with substan-
tially-constructed screens to prevent
breakage and protect players. Screens
should be fastened on strong hinges to
make the opening and closing of the
windows possible. Ceiling lights should
not hang lower than is necessary for
good illumination. When the assembly
hall is on the top floor, it is practical
to recess the light opening flush with
the ceiling, light fixtures projecting in-
to the attic above. Such an arrange-
ment lessens ball interference and en-
hances the physical appearance of the
hall.

Lower walls may be panelled to pro-
tect the plaster, and at the same time
give the room a pleasing appearance.
Game lines should be painted on the
floor and basketball goals installed.
Even though a hall of this type may
not meet the regulation playing floor
dimensions, it is serviceable for modi-
fied games and for active games of low
organization.

Large basement rooms may be sim-
ilarly prepared and, when cleared of
furnishings, provide an excellent addi-
tional location for vigorous, low organ-

OCTOBER 1951

ized game activities, particularly while
the assembly hall-gym is in use for
other purposes.

Entertainment and Dramatic
Facilities

When an assembly hall is large
enough to be used for entertainments,
special stage arrangements can do
much to make the programs more en-
joyable for the audience. A high stage
will be necessary to increase visibility
if the floor is level. If a hall is too
small to allow for a permanent stage,
the' latter can be built in sections
which, when not in use, can be strung
along one side of the hall, thus 1nin-
imizing the floor space consumed and
providing a seating platform for spec-
tators. A stage always should have
convenient and safe steps, with a rail-
ing for added precaution. In many
cases, such steps would have to be port-
able.

If an assembly hall is large enough,
a permanent stage is more desirable
and can embody many convenient fea-
tures. It should be large enough to
allow as great an area as possible for
dramatic use, with a space behind and
at the side for the passage of the actors.
This implies back and side curtains. If
possible, access to the stage area of the
hall should be by doors other than the
entrance doors. If footlights are de-
sired, they can be built into the stage,
in a metal-lined trough, and covered
[lush with the AHoor. When the hinged
cover is lifted, it will tilt away from
the stage and serve as a reflector. How-
ever, the growing popularity of spots,
floods and movable light troughs with
drama folks may make a permanent
footlight arrangement
Electric outlets for Hoods, spots, a mo-
tion picture projector, public address
system and so on should be provided.

The space under the stage can be
used for storage by making the front
a series of movable panels, through
which dollies may be moved contain-
ing chairs in sections of four.

Where the basketball use of the as-
sembly hall necessitates having the
goal at the stage end of the hall, it is
desirable to have a suspended goal
which can be drawn up toward the
ceiling when not in use, so as not to
obstruct the stage view.

Adaptations such as these can trans-

unnecessary.

form the assembly hall from the least
used to the greatest used floor space of
the building, available for gymnasium
classes, dance classes, dramatic and
operatic purposes, lectures, concerts,
recitals, to say nothing ahout dances
and other social events.

Small Group Activity Rooms

There are many activities which can
be conducted in smaller rooms. Much
is added to a dance if there is a lounge
nearby where the guests can sit and
visit and where, if so desired, refresh-
ments can be served during intermis-
sions. Games of a table nature, hobby
crafts, clubs, table tennis, arts and
crafts and other activities generally re-
quire small rooms.

Many school buildings have large
open basement areas which can be di-
vided into rooms for diverse purposes
——although they should be available
only where the height and ventilation
of the basements justify such use. Par-
titions would appear far more friendly
if partly constructed of glass, some type
of Florentine or opaque glass being the
most desirable. The walls, which natu-
rally would be of stone, concrete or
brick, should be attractively painted.
If too rough, it would be desirable, if
financially possible, to panel them part
way up. Likewise, with rooms without
ceilings, it would be more desirable to
give them some finishing. Cement
floors could be painted with special ce-
ment paint in bright colors, with elec-
tric lighting ample and well located.
Rooms of this type could be used for
table games, billiards, club meetings,
dartball, table tennis, tumbling, weight
lifting, boxing, wrestling and so on.

Of course, basement rooms usually
will not meet all of the needs of a
growing program, and day school
classrooms must also be made avail-
able. Ordinarily, kindergarten and pri-
mary grade rooms, with their movable
tables and chairs, or senior classrooms,
with the armchair type of desk, are
most easily adapted to evening use.
Furniture can be pushed to one side to
permit use of card tables, sewing ma-
chines, work tables or tumbling mats.
Where buildings only have rooms fur-
nished with permanently-fixed desks,
these may be unscrewed and fastened
to wooden runners, instead of to the
floor, and stacked in the cloakroom or

269

to one side, to clear the room for the
recreation equipment.

It is most desirable, in this day of
radios, motion picture projectors and
electrical phonographs, that every room
be provided with an electric outlet.
For safety reasons, these should lead
directly to the fuse box so that there
will be no danger of a short circuit.
Electric light controls always should be
of the key, rather than of the push
button, type which can easily be ma-
nipulated.

Service Arrangements

Kitchenette—Since food frequently
plays an important role in social activi-
ties, arrangements should be made, in-
sofar as possible, to have kitchen facil-
ities both in the basement near the
small group activities rooms and close
to the assembly hall, making possible
banquets, dinners, refreshments. Such
a kitchenette often can be installed in a
cloakroom; if the space is wide enough,
cupboards can be built along the sides.
A stove can be concealed and protected
by an ornamental box covering. Need-
less to say, a sink with hot and cold

water should be included.

Showers and Locker Rooms—Wlicre
funds and space permit, it always is
a good investment to build in a shower
and locker room. Even though this
may seem impossible, there must be
some provision for a locker and dress-
ing room, including toilet facilities. If
these accommodations cannot be pro-
vided adjacent to the assembly hall,
space in the basement should be made
available.

Wardrobe Checking—Checking fa-
cilities for patrons’ wearing apparel
adds much to individual comfort and
creates a better building atmosphere.
Rooms as near the entrance as possible
can be made to serve this purpose. A
removable counter can be fitted into
brackets on the door jams. Such a
counter will serve to receive patrons’
wraps and will prevent entrance into
the wardrobe. By using the desks and
the seats and the regular cloakroom
hooks, many people can be accommo-
dated. If needed, an extra table can
be brought in for use. Patrons should
be given a check for their belongings.

Miscellaneons—Bulletin boards and
exhibit cascs placed in corridors and
on stair landings grcatly aid the pro-
motion of activitics and events.

Storage Rooms

One of the secrcts of eliminating
problems arising through joint usc of
a building is to provide each user with
ample facilities for storage. A social
centcr cannot have too many storage
rooms or cupboards. Many old school
buildings still have tllc traditional in-
dividual cloakrooms for boys and girls.
One of these or a portion of one can,
in most cases, very readily beoturned
over to the evening activities for stor-
age for sewing machines, table tops,
horses,,chairs and other equipment.

It is of utmost importance that any
changes in the structure of the school
building should be made only after a
thorough study of the local .fire laws,
building code regulations and other
legislation relating to public buildings.
This is important in regard to the in-
stallation of electrical equipment as
well as to thc planning of exits and
storage rooms.

Most POpular Children’s Plays

Listed in order of preferencc, from “The Directory of 1948 Children’s Theatres Operating in the Unitcd Statcs,” issucd

by ANTA:

1. Cinderella (a)

14. The Elves and the Shoemaker (a)

2. Rumpelstilskin (a) 15. Peter Pan (e)

3. Aladdin and the Magic Lamp (a) 16. Alice in Wonderland (b)

4. Jack and the Beanstalk (a) 17. Little Women (a)

5. The Emperor’s New Clothes (e) 18. Christmas Carol (a)

6. Sleeping Beauty (a) 19. The King’s Balcony (c)

7. Tom Sawyer (a) 20. Treasure Island (a)

8. Heidi (a) 21. Once Upon a Clothesline (d)
9. The Ghost of Mr. Penny (a) 22. Hans Brinker (a)

10. Hansel and Gretel (a) 23. Little Red Riding Hood (a)

11. Mary Poppins (a)
12. Mr. Dooley, Jr. (e)

13. Snow White (b)

24. Beauty and the Beast (c)

25. The Bluebird (e)

For the convenience of readers who may wish to order any of these, the publishers arc as follows:

a. Children’s Theatre Press, Cloverlot, Anchorage, Kcntucky.
b. Baker’s Plays, 569 Boyston Street, Boston 16, Massachusetts.
c. Association of Junior Leagues of America, Waldorf Astoria Hotel,

New York 22, New York.
d. Row-Peterson, Evanston, Illinois.

e. Samuel French, 25 West 45th Street, New York 19, New York.

270

RECREATION

 

 

Among veteran foreign youths invited
to witness democracy in action, Jap-
anese delegate speaks before General
Assembly. Hawaiian delegate and New
York’s Mayor Impelliteri at left.

 

A City Newspaper Plans 0r YtlU’l‘

ll ECOGNIZING THE IMPORTANCE of supervised rccrcation
for New York City’s youth, more than eight years ago
a city newspaper, the New York Mirror, inauguratcd a
year-round program devoted to the purpose of providing
constructive activity for teen-agers which would stimulate
in them a sense of communal responsibility. Under the
direction of the Mirror’s publisher, Charles B. McCabe,
and with the cooperation of the department of parks, board
of education, police department and sixty or more char-
acter-building organizations, this program still is growing.

Today it covers almost all fields of recreational and
educational activity. Tennis, golf, swimming, marble con-
tests, horseshoe pitching and softball are only a few of the
currently-sponsored tournaments. In the basketball tourney
alone, more than seventeen thousand players enrolled last
year in the M irror-Parks Department City-wide Champion-
ships. In all, more than one and a half million persons
actively participated in, or were Spectators at, these recre-
ational events.

It is hoped that by a description of the function and
scope of the Youth Forum and the Model Flying Fair and
Air Show some idea will be given of the value of the en-
tire program.

. The Youth Forum

The Eighth Annual Mirror Youth Forum, a project de-
signed to give young citizens a voice in current problems,
was held December 9, 1950 at the Hotel Astor, where rep-
resentatives of more than sixty New York character-build-
ing organizations—a true cross-section of the city’s youth

OCTOBER 1951

——met to formulate their opinions in open discussion.

In addition to the more than three thousand spectators
and participants who filled the Grand Ballroom at the
Astor, a much larger, uncountcd audience witnessed the
proceedings over NBC television. The program included
speeches by distinguished guests and entertainment by
celebrated performers, but the main accent was upon the
young people themselves. It was their show, and its final
success depended solely upon them.

The idea of a democratic forum, actually planned and
conducted by students of high school age, was insti-
gated by the newspaper eight years ago. Its general frame-
work has served as a model for many similar projects in
cities throughout the country. Today it is the largest
forum of its kind in the United States; its reputation,
both for its contribution to youth welfare and as a civic
project of positive value, is estahlished.

Though the forum is scheduled for only one day in the
calendar year, it is actually the end-project of several
months” preparation by participating youth delegates and
the newspaper’s staff. In October, these delegates, repre-
senting both local and national youth organizations and
all racial and religious groups, are asked to come together
at a planning meeting to work out the general design of the
forum. They currently are in process of doing so for this
year’s forum which will be held in December. They dis-
cuss procedure, select the guest speakers and determine
the format of the final day’s activities.

Their main task, of course, is to select the topics for

271

 

discussion. In the past these haw pretty well reflected the
problems that confront youth today. Last year, they in-
cluded a consideration of teacher loyalty tests and, as
an indication of youth's growing concern over the world
situation, a discussion of the peacetime uses of atomic
energy and of the United Nations as a hope for world
peace.

The three hundred young delegates. five from each or-
ganization, present at this first meeting also attend sub-
sequent meetings to compete for a forum chairmanship
post. From these, twenty-five are elected to continue in
the training sessions. They receive intensive coaching in
parliamentary procedure and generally prepare themselves

 

The Forum has serious basic purpose—to give youth a voice,
training in democratic processes and leadership preparation.

 

The young people eagerly raise hands to speak during the dis-
cussion, “What Can Youth Do to Improve Inter-group Relations?”

272

 

A high school student launches his “super eineh.” Al, just
fourteen, put in a very busy day tuning up for the hig show.

for the big job of conducting an open discussion for sev-
eral hundred students of their own age.

These final sessions, presided over by a member of the
board of education, are held three times weekly until the
day of the forum, and result, finally, in the election of
the five panel chairmen and their alternates, as well as
the general chairman of the forum.

Three years ago, with an idea of giving the forum an
international flavor, the Mirror inaugurated the practice
of bringing foreign delegates to this country to take part
in the preliminary discussions and to attend the forum.
lt was thought that they might learn much from this par-
ticular example of democratic practiceland contribute a
basically different vieWpoint to the discussions. This sea:
son, with the cooperation of the State Department, trans-
portation has been arranged for students from eleven
countries in the Near and Far East. Their early arrival
in New York, planned to coincide with the last of the
training sessions, allows them time to become acquainted
with the other delegates and to prepare themselves for. an
active role in the final day’s activities.

0n the morning of the forum, the foreign delegates and
the panel chairmen are waiting to meet the five hundred
or more young citizens who are to participate in the dis-
cussions. At ten a.m. they go to one of the five panel rooms

RECREATION

 

and the floor is opened to a general discussion of their
sclected t0pics. Under the direction of the panel chairmen,
the resolutions are decided upon. The delcgates gather
in the ballroom for luncheon, and the Mirror Youth Forum
officially is begun.

The formal reading of the resolutions takes a featured
place in the afternoon’s ceremonies which, in the past,
have included Speeches by such notables as Warren Austin,
Bernard Baruch and others, not only in government, but

'4!

if? a. ‘ _ a“; I II-
_ _ I. I  I- I I

'k

Sister Betty Lou, four years old, is willing helper for Billy,
age eight. They are at work on the largest plane in flying fair.

The Model Flying Fair and Air Show

The Mirror’s Model Flying Fair and Air Show, sanc-
tioned by the Academy of Model Aeronautics in Wash-
ington, is the largest assemblage of model plane builders
and aviators in the United States.

It is significant to note that as recently as ten or twelve
years ago, few model planes were constructed and flown.
As a result of sponsored meets, such as the Flying Fair,
which has vastly stimulated youth’s interest in aviation,
it is conservatively estimated that we now have more than
2,500,000 model planes flying today.

In preparation for the sky festival, held annually on the
spacious grounds of the Grumman Airfield in Bethpage,
Long Island, the model plane builders spend months work-
ing on blueprints and new models. Outdoor toolsheds, base-
ment and attic workshops are transformed into miniature
aircraft plants, while nearby fields become landing strips
and airfields used for proving grounds.

On a Sunday morning last June, young people from
nineteen states and Canada converged at Grumman Air-
field seeking the thrills that come with active competition.
The prize list in previous years included an $1,800 two-
year Academy of Aeronautics scholarship. This year the
awards embraced trOphies, television sets, enornlous tool
cabinets and a myriad of others.

Following registration, the model airmen approached
eight seventy-foot flying rings in the landing strip area,

OCTOBER 1951

 

also from the fields of education and Sport. From time to
time, the program is,given over to entertainment—Paul

Winchell and Jerry Mahoney, Lauritz Melchior, Robert
Merrill.

It is a festive occasion, but the basic seriousness of its
purpose always serves to underline its primary functions:
to give youth a voice, train them in democratic processes
and prepare them for future leadership in a world that
will be theirs.

A young, prospective flier enviously eyes the expertly made
models, while his toy paper plane is momentarily forgotten.

where U-control events were featured. This portion of
the dawn-to-dusk program unveiled the speedy maneuvers
of tiny aircraft powered by jet, Diesel and gasoline motors.

A capacity throng of two hundred fifty thousand watched
as the U-controlled planes dipped, climbed and streaked
through elaborate aerobatics under the skilled manipula-
tion of their designers. U-control refers to two elongated
wires attached to the left wing of each plane which lead
to a hand grip held by the model aviator. The wires con-
nect with the model plane’s rudder and ailerons. Thus, by
a mere flick of the contestant’s wrist, the crafts can take
off, loop and perform numerous other gyrations in the
air. Many planes at the Flying Fair were clocked by offi-
cials at speeds upwards of one hundred thirty mph.

Meanwhile, larger free-flight and radio-controlled events
were in progress at adjacent areas of the airfield. A mild
breeze was blowing as squadrons of planes took to the
air in endurance tests in the free flight area. Many landed
in pastures miles from the airfield. This event was won
with a sustained flight of eight minutes, six seconds. A
“retriever service,” operated by the Nassau County Police
Department, returned the planes to the contestants.

The uniquely-designed planes drew many spectators to
the beauty contest area. Not far from here, some of the
Grumman Aircraft Engineering Corporation’s FOF navy
jets. fighters, seaplanes and other ships were displayed.

The model flying ceased at three p.m., and the Academy

273

|
|
a
l

 

of Model Aeronautics judges turned to their scoresheets to
name the winners. The contestants then joined the audi-
ence to enjoy the full-scale air show which followed. In-
cluded in the entertainment were such highlights as the
story told by Captain Charles F. Blair, Jr., of his daring
adventure as the first man to fly over the North Pole in
a single-engined plane, and the impressive array of the
nation’s latest military aircraft flying in formation, while
swift-as-sound jets roared by in speed demonstrations. A
nationally-famous aerobatic team and an equally-famous
glider pilot, whose ship was towed skyward and released,
thrilled the crowds with their daring. Daylight fireworks
exploded high above the field, sending huge papier-maehé

entire program was tape-recorded by a Voice of America
unit for rebroadcast later in the week to European coun-
tries.

Thus, with the country’s top pilots emulating in [he air
the maneuvers of the tiny planes guided from the ground,
the day-long program drew to a close. The judges an-
nounced the winners; prizes were awarded; and the 1951
winners congratulated each other for a project well done.

Thousands of air-minded youths turned homcward to
prepare for the next aerial program. In keeping with the
times, this model flying project is fostered to enhance the
aerodynamic ingenuity and creativeness of our youth.
From these roots, the nation’s future aviation leaders will

circus animals down to rest among the spectators. The grow. Our country’s destiny in the sky will be in theirhands.

Happenings of Note . . .

Chicago Festival

The Chicago Square Dance Festival
is being staged for a second time by
the Chicago Park District and Prairie
Farmer-WLS, with Walter Roy of the
Park District as chairman. It will be
held October 26 and 27, 1951, in Chi-
cago’s International Amphitheatre. Its
objective is “to present square dancing
from every angle for every type of
square dancer.”

Joseph Lee Dedication

Last spring, the entire Bay View
District of San Francisco, one of its
oldest neighhorhoods, participated in
the dedication of a new recreation
and playground center which has been
named for Joseph Lee, founder of
America’s first playground in Boston.
This event was an eminently fitting
launching of one of the city’s most
important recreational units.

In the San Francisco’s $12,000,000
program of 1947, approximately $388,-
000 were set aside for the construction
and equipment of this project. De-
signed by William G. Merchant, archi-
tect, the center covers over twenty-one
square feet. The large “U” shaped
building houses a gymnasium with
bleachers, a club room with folding
doors which convert it into two rooms,
a large auditorium with balcony, three
offices, locker and storage rooms and
convenience stations. The basement
will be fitted for hoxing instruction.

As may be expected, it houses a
wide variety of activities, under the

2 74

supervision of two full-time directors
and one part-time director. The pro~
gram runs Monday through Friday.

Honorary Degrees

Mr. George Hjeltc, general manager
of the Los Angeles Department of Rec-
reation and Parks, has recently been
awarded the first honorary degree of
Master of Science in recreation to be
given by the Los Angeles State College.
This event followed closely upon the
heels of the awards for distinguished
service in recreation, which were pre-
sented to Mr. Hjelte, Josephine Ran-
dall and Harry Stoops by the Califor-
nia Recreation Society, in the form of
society fellowships.

Miss Randall also received the hon-
orary degree of Doctor of Laws from
the University of California in June.

United Nations Week

United Nations Week—this year
October 21 to 27—is a period set in
the United States by a large number
of cooperating national organizations.
It is designated as a time when com-
munities throughout the land are
urged to a wider interest in and deep-
er concern for the UN as the world’s
best h0pe for peace.

Organizations undertake to help
members to gain a more meaningful
understanding of the United Nations,
and to help organize community-wide
Observances of United Nations Day on
October 24.

For suggestions for Observances of
the former, write to the Church Peace

Union, 170 East 64th Street, New
York 21, New York; and for the lat-
ter, write to the National Citizcns’
Committee for United Nations Day,
816 Twenty-first Street, Washington,
D. C.

Red Feather Month

October is traditionally “Red Feath-
er Month.” The president of the United
States launches the nationwide drive
each fall on or about October first.
Each local community arranges its own
Red Feather campaign dates. Thou-
sands of volunteer campaigners spend
many hours of the month securing
pledges from their fellow citizens for
the nation’s health, recreation and wel-
fare services . . . under the Red Feath-
er symbol.

Last summer, recognizing the need
for USO again, as well as the need
for special services for .civilians in de-
fense areas and possibly for allies
overseas, Community Chests and Coun-
cils of America and the National So-
eial Welfare Assembly organized a
committee on the national emergency.
Meeting on October 30, 1950, this
committee recommended that Com-
munity Chests everywhere participate
in a “single package” campaign to
finance needed emergency health and
welfare programs. Today, the United
Defense Fund is in full operation, an
integral part of the united Red Feath-
er campaigns. (See editorial in this
issue of RECREATION.) This is a matter
of vital importance to recreation work-
ers everywhere.

RECREATION

 

At the Caiiforuia State Veterans Home, State Department of
Veterans Affairs, the average, over-ail age is over sixty-five.

THE CALIFORNIA STATE VETERANS
HOME, located in the rolling hills of
the Napa Valley in northern California,
approximately fifty-five miles from San
Francisco, is a state home and hospital
for disabled veterans who have served
during a war period and are eligiblc for
hospitalization, convalescent or domicil-
iary care, providing that the veteran has
been a bona fide resident of the state of
California for ten years preceding datc
of application. Our problem, therefore,
is that we have approximately seventeen
hundred male veterans with disabil-
ities ranging from minor to total, aver-
age age over sixty-five, living together
with plenty of time on their hands. The
solution to this, however, has been a
flexible, diversified recreation program
administered by a single specialist work-
ing in close cooperation with the medical department and
given every encouragement by the commandant. Since
the recreation program was converted from a part-time
duty of two home officers and placed under a full-time rec-
reation and welfare officer on September 1, 1948, our dis-
ciplinary problems have been reduced to half.

Recreation in such homes and hospitals still is in the
pioneering stage. Handicapped veterans want leisure activ-
ities—and, for them, nearly all their time is classified as
“leisure”—adapted to their remaining abilities, not based
upon their disabilities.

Therapy, however, is an important aspect of recreation
in such an establishment, and Special Services Officer
Major Kenneth A. Hill consults with the home medical
staff in all cases; for not only must the recreational
activity for the individual veteran be based upon his
degree of mobility and upon his length of stay in the hos-

MR. KORITZ is public information editor of the Califor-
nia State Department of Veterans Afiairs in Sacramento.

OCTOBER 1951

 

 

Lester Koritz

J!‘

Hobby shop offers Opportunity for members to make useful, needcd articles;
provides an outlet for those creatively inclined. The program still is expanding.

pital and his type of illness, but it must also take into
account whether or not he can, or wants to, participate
in large group, small group or individual activities.

In addition to helping the patient get well, the goal of
the recreation program at the State Veterans Home is to
help make it more truly his “home,” to improve and
sustain morale and to help him achieve a way of satis-
factory living in line with his disability. Patients are ill
and under tension, and recreation activities which are with-
in an individual’s capacity are needed to overcome the
focus of his attention upon his physical condition. Through
recreation activities, the handicapped veteran may gain
mental stimulation, joy in the develoPment of skills, cre-
ative expression through construction and craftsmanship
and emotional release through artistic pursuits which sup—
plement and complement the ordinary activities of every-
day institutional life. Our recreation activities here are of
the active and passive variety, and range all the way from
woodworking and bowling to a bedside library and weekly
baseball and softball games.

275

Major Hill’s addition to the home staff coincided with
the opening of a new and modern mess hall and the va-
cating of the old one. Plans to use the old structure for a
warehouse were quickly scrapped and it was converted as
rapidly as possible into a spacious recreation center, serv—
ing employees as well as members. It consists of eight pool
and billiard tables, a card room, an arts and crafts corner,
a radio and television room, a two-way miniature bowling
alley, three indoor shuffleboards, an electrically-controlled
shuffiepin game and an assortment of all types of quiet
games, jigsaw puzzles, checkers, chess, reading and so on.
It even has a barbershop and, on occasion, houses such
special events as boxing and wrestling shows. One of its
most popular features is the snack bar, where members
can go after supper. Formerly, their only recourse for a
snack was a group of establishments just outside the home
grounds along the highway. This situation gave rise to
many disciplinary problems and even led to some serious
highway accidents involving members of the home. Ap-
proximately eight hundred fifty members a day use the
facilities of the recreation center, which is open every day
from nine a.m. to eleven p.m. Much of its supplies and
equipment have been donated by patriotic and fraternal
organizations and their auxiliaries. These volunteer organi-
zations also provide leadership in the arts and crafts
classes, through which many of the members of the home
are able to earn some pin money by the sale of their prod-
ucts. They also provide special outings to off-post recrea-
tion and sports events, visit hospitalized patients and bring
amateur and professional entertainment to the home itself.
In addition to the recreation center, the home has a regu-
lation bowling alley in a separate building, with eight
teams now competing in a winter league. Teams are spon-
sored by local patriotic organizations.

Members of the home themselves participate in the
planning of recreational events and activities, and some
are part-time employees, paid by post funds, as custodians
of equipment, recreation supervisors, librarians, bowling
alley supervisors, theatre managers and so forth. The
Lincoln Theatre at the home offers thirty-five-mm. motion
pictures three evenings a week; while patients confined to
the hospital or convalescent barracks may see sixteen-mm.
films daily.

The library averages six hundred visitors per day, with
a circulation average of ten thousand books a month, and
a library bookcart brings this service to the bedridden pa-
tients. Stamp collectors also are able to follow their
hobby while hospitalized. The program still is expanding,
with new types of games and activities being provided as
fast as possible. Folk dancing is held one evening a week
and is gaining in popularity among members and em-
ployees alike. A plastics class has been in operation for a
year and a lapidary program is now under way. A hobby
shop offers an excellent opportunity for members to make
useful and needed articles and provides an outlet for those
who are creatively inclined. Boccie hall is the latest addi-
tion to the repertoire of games. For outdoor events, a new
bandshell recently has been completed in the Memorial
Grove and will provide a setting for entertainment pro-

276

grams. The baseball and softball diamonds and grand-
stands recently have been renovated.

“The most generous act by any fraternal organization
during my years in office” was what Governor Earl Warren
called a donation of two hundred fifty thousand dollars by
the Rebekah Assembly of California and Independent Or-
dcr of Odd Fellows for the purpose of building an In-
dustrial Vocational Training Center at the home. This
building soon will be started and dedicated to World War
ll vetcrans. Colonel Nelson M. Holderman, Commandant,
in expressing the gratitude of members and staff, said that
the structure would serve a multiple purpose. “It will pro-
vide,” he said, “valuable on-the-job training for those of
the domiciliary members who are physically able to take
advantage of it. In some cases, it will help them to return
to gainful employment on their own. This should be par-
ticularly evident in years to come as more and more vet-
erans of World War II are admitted to membership.”

Among other new projects planned for the near future
are the hostess house, to be built with sixty thousand
dollar funds donated by the California Federation of Wom-
en’s Cluhs to provide a place for the family and relatives
of seriously ill members in times of emergencies; an au-
ditorium and theatre to cost $479,000, with seating capac-
ity of twelve hundred, to replace present antiquated Lin-
coln Theatre; and a new recreation center for $469,800.
These facilities will be needed to meet the over-all capacity
of three thousand two hundred fifty male veterans and two
hundred fifty women veterans in the next five years. Rec-
reation must also be provided for eight hundred employees.
As Major Hill points out, the field of recreation in homes
and hospitals for older veterans is one without benefit of
long history or experience, but neither does it bear the
handicap of convention and outmoded practices. The
California State Veterans Home and Hospital is believed
to provide one of the finest examples of a successful recre—
ation program of this type.

"CARE-FOR-KOREA" Fund Drive

The “CARE-for-Korea” campaign voted by the General
Federation of Women’s Clubs at Houston will open on
November 12th and end on Thanksgiving Day—in time to
save Korean women and children from hunger and cold
this winter.

CARE’s package program for Korea has been approved
by the United States State Department’s Advisory Com-
mittee on Voluntary Foreign Aid, endorsed by President
Truman and General Ridgway. Funds raised will be ap-
plied toward six types of CARE packages—40 meet speci-
fic needs: woolen blanket, cotton textiles, $7.00 each; food,
woolen fabric, underwear, $10.00 each; knitting wool,
$13.00. Delivery will be made to the most destitute orphan-
ages, refugee families and other civilian war victims.

Hallowe’en Reports
Recreation Leaders: The staff of RECREATION magazine
will be most grateful if you will send us accounts of your
Hallowe’en celehrations this year. Do prepare a write-up
of activities while their details are fresh in your mind!

RECREATION

 

The National Roster

HE MOST COMPREHENSIVE inventory of recreation and
Tpark workers ever made is now under way.

The National Roster of Recreation and Park Personnel,
now being established by the National Recreation As-
sociation as a defense project, is filling a long-recognized
gap in the information available about the recreation and
park field—the tallying, person by person, community by
community, job by job, of the full-time professional work-
ers who are making recreation one of the outstanding
assets of a free country.

The National Roster already has been called to the at-
tention of some fifteen thousand professional workers in
public recreation and park departments, voluntary agen-
cies, hospitals and institutions, universities having a rec-
reation curriculum and industries Operating recreation pro-
grams with full-time leadership. Approval of the move
has been immediate and enthusiastic; cooperation is being
received from local, state and federal agencies employing
full-time recreation workers and from the recreation lead-
ership in all other branches of the widespread field. Al-
ready over nine hundred agencies have requested registra-
tion cards for more than ten thousand Workers.

At a time when defense of the democracy that makes
leisure possible is viewed as a matter of continued ne-
cessity, the recreation workers of America are in a po-
sition to make a significant contribution. Thousands of
them are indicating their willingness to do so by register-
ing their names and skills on the National Roster, which
is being set up in connection with the essential activities
and critical occupations list currently in preparation by
the Federal Government.

The roster will make available for emergency use a list-
ing of skilled, experienced personnel equipped to expand
or institute necessary recreation and morale services any-
where, without disrupting similar essential programs in
other communities. Times of stress call for the best use
of leisure, and recreation workers are prepared to help
guarantee it.

The National Roster of Recreation and Park Personnel

OCTOBER 1951

Alfred B. Jensen

 

The registration process is very simple.
Request above card, fill out, and return.

is growing daily, as executives in all sections of the coun-
try request cards for the voluntary registration of their
staffs. Because of the lack of detailed information, which
only can be corrected with the roster’s completion, some
recreation workers may not yet have been notified of the
simple procedure for being included in the roster.

Registration takes only a few moments’ time. A Special
roster card (see above) is filled out with name, age, sex,
title, location, special skills and type of work done. Space
is also provided for comment on additional skills which
might also be of interest to defense employers. This infor-
mation is later coded by staff in the association offices, the
punch system being used to provide for rapid hand sorting.

Park and recreation executives and full-time independent
recreation workers may receive registration cards by ad-
dressing The National Roster, National Recreation Associ-
ation, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10, New York. The
number of registration cards needed, the agency and the
mailing address should be stated. Complete instructions
and information on the registration procedure will be sent
with the cards.

The National Roster is important to the recreation move-
ment and to its professional workers. It also is important
to our country, which recognizes the right to, and the
need for, recreation.

Are you registered?

MR. JENSEN is assistant director of Recreation Personnel
Service, NRA, and serves as the National Roster Secretary.

277

The story of a recreation venture
in a little (otter-population 686.

GUHJKHU)
RECREATBNV

Take a fifteen-acre swamp. Not that
there’s any particular reason why you
should take it because hardly anyone——
or at least anyone without a great deal
of imagination—would want it unless,
perhaps, it was because of the old sugar
bush and the tumbled-down mill that
went with it.

The aforesaid ingredients add up to
a bit of scenery which is common
enough in northern New England, but
they need more eXplaining. In the first
place, you’d better have them in a
strictly rural little town of about seven
hundred population, a town like Guil-
ford, Vermont. Then they’ll need some
preparation. First, add a club—the
Guilford Recreation Club in this case
—of about two hundred family mem-
berships, each family paying the huge
dues of one dollar yearly. Then add
liberal dashes of Yankee make-do and
ingenuity, great gobs of persistence and
sweat and huge quantities of imagina-
tion, enthusiasm and neighborly spirit.
Flavor strongly with pure essence of
generosity.

Let this mess stew busily for about a
year. And then, if you’re lucky, you’ll
have something like the Guilford Rec-
reation Club’s Whittemore Park, which
includes a first-class baseball diamond,
a horseshoe court and a sylvan picnic
ground. Next year there’ll be a natu-

278

CLUB

ral swimming pool.

We’ve given the recipe for Whitte-
more Park. But you’ve got to have
something to get the stew rumbling
around and working—a catalytic agent
or whatever the chemists call it. In the
case of Whittemore Park, this was a
fortuitous circumstance which looked,
at first, like a piece of pretty rotten
luck.

Vermont farm boys, like farm and
town boys the whole country over, love
to play ball. They have a lot of room
for it, too, in a state which still has
more cows than pe0ple. But the gla-
ciers, in their rumbling and Jovian
way, left a lot of jagged boulders and
smaller dornicks sticking up around
the verdant cow pastures and untidy
Mother Nature, with her junipers and
hardtack, did very little to help in the
way of providing original ball parks.

Well, one evening in the late spring
of 1949, the boys were enjoying their
after-supper ball game when one of
them took a header and injured an eye
so badly that he had to go to Boston
for treatment. Trips to Boston come
high, especially when they include a
specialist and hospitalization. But the
neighborly spirit came to the rescue.
In July there was a pick-up game be-
twecn the married men and the single
ones for the benefit of the injured play-

cr. The people came flocking from
miles around to razz and to root, all
paying their hard-earned cash for lhc
privilcgc. The game was a huge suc-
ccss, cnjoyctl by everyone.

It was [his very game that was the
germ of Whittemore Park.

Now Guilfordites, like people any-
where, niust realize that names make
ncws—and all who worked on the park
project have names. But like presi-
dential assistants or a less self-reliant
circlc, they all seem to have an intense
passion for anonymity—at least when
it comes to Whittemorc Park. It was a
terrific job to pry some of these park-
builders loose from their monikcrs.
Only a few can be given.

Two of the contributors are Bill
Searles and (Leon Ogden, baseball fans
and good neighbors both. They got to
wondering why a real club could not
be organized to provide a safe field.
Their talk got around to neighbor Bcrt
Whittemore. He told Leon and Bill
that he had an alder swamp that wasn’t
much good but that the club-to-be
could have it if they wanted. The club
wanted, all right, and Bert accordingly
deeded the fifteen acres of muskrat
land for free, thereby giving his name
to the project. He also deeded the
sugar bush, with the only reservation
that he be allowed to gather sap there

in the spring of the year.
With the formal organization of the

club in August of 1949, the land-deed-
ing fever became contagious. Joe Bor-
kowski, owner of land abutting Whitte-
more’s, donated a strategic quarter-
acre or so needed for the infield. Law-
yer Dick Gale, from nearby Brattle-
boro, searched the title, drew the deeds
and told the club to forget about a bill.
The town clerk waived thc recording
fees.

But we’re getting ahead of oursclves
a little. The club had to be organized
before it could be a land owner. This
was duly done. Every Guilford family
was solicited and almost every family
paid its dollar dues. There Wcre no
ringers. Every membership is held by
a bona-fide Guilford family or by sum-
mer residents, former residents or own-
ers of property within the town. Ten

dances at the Guilford Grange Hall

RECREATION

netted about one hundred dollars for
the club and there have been money
donations, too.

But the big story of donations to
Wllittemore Park is not that of money
but of time, muscle and sweat. There
are plenty of farmers in Guilford and
farmers mean trucks, horses, tractors,
doodle-bugs, to say nothing of shovels,
axes and picks. In the drive for help,
not a single refusal was met. A total
of about two hundred different strong
backs worked on the job, with a fair
Sunday bringing out as many as fifty
of them and a Saturday afternoon
drawing between twenty-five and thirty.

There were donations from those
who could not contribute labor and, all
told, these amounted to about seven
hundred dollars. Neighbor Rudolf Ser-
kin happened around one afternoon to
do a job of sidewalk superintending on
a bee of pulling and hauling rocks.
\Villing enough and full of good wish-
es, he felt that perhaps he ought not to
risk his famous hands at such chores
and no one disagreed with him. So the
noted pianist went home and promptly
sent the club a check for one hundred
dollars.

A swamp, even when all of the alders
are cut, needs filling, and Whittemore-
Park-to-be required three hundred cu-
bic yards. Six trucks owned and
manned by club members toted the
stuff—and the only expense was eight
hours’ hire of a power shovel to fill the
vehicles. A bothersome ledge cropped
up in the outfield and the generous
owner of a compressor loaned the ma-
chine to the club free for ten hours to
drill blast holes. Twenty-five dollars’
worth of dynamite flattened the ledge.
A swamp also needs draining and the
ball field required the blasting of seven
hundred feet of ditch. Then there was
a little matter of grading. On one busy
week end, nine trucks—and only one
of them hired—~carted in around eleven
hundred cubic yards of dirt for the
job. By this time, Guilford’s select-
men had heard of the project and the
town bulldozer ably came to its assis-
tance.

By the time gold and scarlet leaves
had withered and the autumn snows of

1949 were descending, thc Guilford
OCTOBER 1951

Recreation Club had its ball park——-in
the rough, at least—for a cash outlay
of $312.24!

But a ball park, no matter how fine
or how inexpensively deve10ped, needs
a team. The Guilford Recreation Club
had its team, all right, but in this day
and age a tcam needs uniforms. The
Guilfordites got a bargain. Uniforms
worth $250 new and worn in but four
contests were purchased from a
Knights of Columbus Council for about
a third of their original cost. The
suits, however, were emblazoned with
the huge “KC” emblems across the
front. Yankee make-do and ingenuity
again. A little amateur, but expert,
needlework changed the K’s into B’s
and that was all there was to it. The
uniforms and all of the other baseball
equipment came to $228.97.

The glorious Fourth of 1950 herald-
ed the first game on the new diamond,
and it was a proud moment for the
clubbers when their smartly-uniformed
nine trotted out on the field to do battle
with a nearby town. The collection
taken at this and at the five subsequent
games of the 1950 season came to
$111.26. Another dance raised $38.38.
However, the team did so well that the
grateful Guilfordites gave them a party
at the season’s end. This set the treas-
ury back $24.19, but everyone agreed
that it was worth it. Party or no, the
recreation club’s baseball team is now a
complete self-sustaining unit.

There’s a lot to a park besides a
place to play baseball and Whittemore
Park is not lacking in other attrac-
tionsuthe picnic grove, for instance.
The sugar bush which Bert Whittemore
threw in with the alder swamp is a
mighty attractive place in the heat of
the day. The youngsters can play in
the shade while the women tend the
fragrant sizzling hamburgers and the
men sneak off to the car for another
cold one.

The stately maples, many of which
were sturdy two-bucket jobs when N.
Bonaparte was the scourge of EurOpe,
are gnarled and massive and poke their
green old heads into the hot midday
blue as the cooking fires smoke lazily
away. Once busy only at mud-time, the
grove now has tables and fireplaces

Harrison Brown and Polly Tier

which are used all during the warm
weathcr. Lumber for the tables was
donated and they required only a bit
of rough carpentry to be thrown to-
gether. The fireplaces——and they all
draw—cost a total of $34.40. All of
which was for mortar cement and iron
grills. A professional mason—another
man with a passion for anonymity—-
gave of his time and skill in their
building. Volunteers fetched stones,
water and sand and did their mighty
stint of heaving and groaning.

The swimming pool project was too
late for this year but it is a certainty
for 1952, especially when you consider
that the club already has earmarked
$450 for its construction. It will be
possible primarily through the generos-
ity of another donor, Clarence Holden,
who lives nearby. Mr. Holden deeded
the club a plot of land two hundred
feet by three hundred. This sounds as
romantic as a downtown city lotH-un-
less you’ve seen the place. But that
sixty thousand square feet—and it’s
much more if you figure the ups and
downs of the terrain—is like a natural
hollow through which rushes a swift
and rocky and unpolluted stream,
laughing water in the dead of hot sum-
mer as well as when the ice goes out
in April. The hollow means that there
will be a minimum of dam building
and it will be a rock-and-concrete dam,
not a muddy earthen one.

No barren concrete rectangle smell-
ing of chlorine for Guilfordites to swim
in next summer, but a beauty spot with
a backdr0p of thick green forest. The
stream is cold, too, but you can’t have
everything.

An old mill stands at the site and,
at first, there were high h0pes that it
might be converted into a bathhouse.
But inspection has revealed it to be
tumbling to moss and ruin. However
picturesque it may be, it is a poor sub-
stitute for sound construction. But the
club is not worrying much. There is
the $450 in the bank and a community
spirit which, during the past year, al-
most literally moved mountains and is
not likely to be discouraged by a small
job of mere carpentry.

(MR. SERKIN recently gave a concert
to help raise more funds.—Ed.)

279

 

H UNDREDS 0F PROJECTS are possible with scrap ma-
terials but they are not popular with club leaders and
teachers because it is almost impossible to get the things
you want when you want them. Therefore, a scrap closet
or depot, well-organized, will be of use to every group in
the community—from the football squad to the violin
1nakers—when they become aware of its existence. In one
day—a day chosen at random from our lists—these have
been the calls upon our own supply:

Violin maker—a few square inches of vellum which
could not be obtained commercially in town; football
player—leather from an old wallet for a repair job; house-
wife—etwelve inches of reed for a repair job; Girl Scout
Troop—yarn for hair, for puppets; high school class (put-
ting on a dance)—wall paper with Japanese motif for
lanterns; tray stencilling class—old pieces of velvet; school
teacher—round and square blocks for block printing;
woman’s club—enough cards with butterflies for place
cards.

Not one of those materials cost us a cent to acquire. It
did take time and effort, of course, to organize and store
and distribute them, but it was worth it!

Three things are necessary to make an extensive scrap
program successful: a place for storage; a definite system
of processing and storage; and a public awareness of the
items desired.

Place
This must be more or less conditioned by what is avail-
able—ideally, an attic room with shelves, bins and chests,

 

Author has been school teacher, club custodian, arts and
crafts director, Rutland, Vermont, recreation director. She
is now a§iliated with the Rutland Girl Scout Council.

280

Viva Whitney

its size dependent upon the demands of the groups using
the material. It must be dry.

System of Processing and Storing

The person, or persons, in charge of collecting ma-
terials needs to have knowledge of their uses as well as
resourcefulness and ingenuity. There are several good
publications on scrapcraft on the market today. Children’s
Activities, School Arts, recreation publications, the De-
Lemos crafts publications and others are sources of ideas.
One general rule for storing material is safe for any group
of any size with any sort of storage: Store everything in
transparent containers whenever possible—glass jars, plas-
tic boxes, onion bags, cellophane refrigerator bags.

There literally are hundreds of objects which may be
used. Following are suggestions for processing and stor-
ing some of the more common ones and a list of their uses:

Spools—These will be sent in mixed with cards and
candles. Large onion bags hung on nails are most con-
venient containers. Sort roughly into three sizes. Used for:
curtain pulls, spool animals, Christmas tree ornaments,
place card holders, "spool dolls, doll house furniture.

If you still doubt the value of such a collection, decide
to make spool dolls with a class of twenty-five kinder-
garten children and then go out and try to collect two
hundred fifty spools—or ask each youngster to bring in
ten spools. It is not that mothers are not willing to co-
operate in sending things; they just don’t have tcn elnpty
spools when you happen to ask for them.

Candles—These, too, seem to come in small lots—wusu-
ally with spools for some unknown reason. Large gallon
mayonnaise jars in which to drOp these, sorted by colors,
are bcst. Several times a year, the candles may bc meltcd
into large cakes to save space and for added neatncss. A

RECREATION

 

bushel of stubs takes little room after melting. Save the
old wicks. Used for: Heating candles, blocks for carving,
waxing lacing threads, transferring pictures.

Yarns and Threads—Glass jars are most useful for bold-
ing these. Used for: weaving belts, Christmas ornaments,
yarn flowers, yarn dolls, stuffed animal and doll construc-
tion, scrapbooks, pictures, sachets, embroidery, puppets—
one could not begin to list all the uses for this material.

Cloth Remnants—A chest of drawers is ideal for their
storage. Sort as follows: textile painting; doll clothes;
velvets; large silk pieces for display cloths; scraps of cot-
ton; larger pieces of cotton; scraps of silk; scraps of wool;
large ones of wool. Used for: textile painting, puppets,
doll clothes, greeting cards, place cards, toys, dolls, pic-
tures, costumes, diSplays, posters.

Can Rubbers—An onion bag is best for holding thesc.
Used for: can rubber pictures, hot dish mats, sink mats,
several games and puzzles.

Felts—Hats and small scraps may be kept separately.
Small scraps can be sorted in large-topped glass ars. They
all need moth protection. Used for: bookmarks, wallets,
toy construction, coasters, book and box covers, belts,
small wallets, lapel ornaments, buttons, costume jewelry.

Beads and Buttons—Stored by size, color and kind in
glass jars or plastic boxes. Indian beads on bags and
dresses, woolen beads, glass beads, shell beads all are
good material. Used for: Indian bead rings and loom
work, costume jewelry, puppet construction, puzzles, doll
accessories, kindergarten projects.

Class Jars—~These are bulky and take up much space.
Shelves are the best answer. Keep together the ones suita-
ble for Special projects—large t0ps and ones with tight
covers; others for mixing and throwing away; and then
the pretty shapes and sizes for vases, and so forth. Used
for: storing things, bases and decorated containers, home
decorations, mixing paints and other mixtures.

Tin and Wooden Boxes; Picture Frames; Lamp Shades
—Used for: decorating boxes, toy construction, framing
pictures, display frames and the wire frames of shades
for new ones.

Nature Materials—Store cones in onion bags and birch
bark in large flat boxes or drawers; hang dried flowers
or grass in the darkest corners; wrap birch log pieces in
wax paper and lay flat.

Leathers—Store flat in large drawers or chests. Cut
pocketbooks into pieces before storing to take less room.
Used for: bookmarks, wallets, toy construction, coasters,

book and box covers, belts, small wallets, lapel ornaments,
buttons, costume jewelry.

Nuts and Shells; Stones and Pebbles; Twigs and M oss—
Hold nuts and shells in glass jars; stones and pebbles in
tin cans; twigs and moss in glass jars. Used for: uses for
these materials are too numerous to enumerate and very

obvious. Decorations, toys, holiday projects are a few of
them.

 

Crepe Paper—Keep flat in a large drawer or in very
large carton. Used for: crepe paper rafiia, decorations.
badges, puppets, crepe clay, weaving, kindergarten proj-
ects and many other things.

OCTOBER 1951

Greeting Cards—These demand the most processing of
any other product to be useful. Nothing can be more of
a nuisance if not properly handled. Ahvery large quantity
are necessary before enough of one kind are available
for group projects. A metal card file is ideal. Shoe boxes
also will serve the storage purpose.

In a card file with eight drawers, label them thus: pic-
tures to frame; cut outs; sachet material; special purpose;
just Christmas; small views and figures for framing;
miscellaneous; fancy papers 'and ribbons.

Before being filed, all cards are cut across the t0p and
along the folded edge so that they are in four pieces. Each
drawer has its own alphabetical file cards in the front.
For instance, the pictures to frame have the following
card, changing from time to time as additions and with-

drawals are made.

Pictures to Frame

A. Animals M. Miscellaneous
B. Birds, birch trees, butterflies N.
C. Children, covered bridges 0.

D. Dogs P.

E. Q.

P. Flowers and fruit R. Religion

G. 5. Ships and seas
H. Horses T.

I. U. Unusual

J. V.

K. Kittens W. Winter scenes
L. X. Y. Z.

Used for: framing, calendars, toys, place cards, scrapbooks,
illustrative material, decals, games, stunts, decorations.

Cardboard—Build special racks if possible so that the
cardboard may lie flat. Tubes may be stored in shipping
bags. Used for: toys, posters, picture framing, patterns.

Wallpaper—~Books are large and unwieldy; therefore
use special shelves if possible. Keep decorator roll sam-
ples in large bags or cartons upright. This, too, is more
useful if sorted with pages suitable for special purposes.
We sort according to the following classes: backgrounds;
weaving mats; book covers; nursery designs; special,
such as Japanese, early American; fruit; animal; stencil
patterns.

Used for: all kinds of paper projects, weaving, back-
grounds, puppet show backgrounds, decorations for parties,
covering boxes and books, lampshades, placemats, favors,
making boxes and baskets, illustrative material for design
classes.

Ways of Obtaining This Material
0 A good write-up in the newspapers. One of our local
headlines read, “Crafts Center Wants Gifts of Everything
from Spools to Candle Ends.”
0 Talks before women’s clubs—=especially ones where the
membership is composed largely of older women.
0 Posters in the store windows, with a display of small
objects, saying “These were constructed from . . . ”—nam-
ing scraps used.
oMerchants and businessmen. Salesmen have a wealth
of greeting cards, plastic bottles and jars.
0 Children’s clubs themselves.
0 Dressmakers can save many spools over a short time.
Women who do their own canning have plenty of can
rubbers. Shirt cardboards come in quantities from fami-

281

“I.

din-kl—

l'

lies where there are several men whose laundry is sent
out. These cardboards are the most all-around useful card-
board material there is.

o A decorator wall paper shOp will have larger samples
than the regular stores. Sanitas coverings and oilcloth
sample books also are obtainable. Upholstery samples make
grand doll house rugs and drapes, fabric pictures and
matchbox covers.

It takes time not only to get people into the habit of
saving things for you, but also to get them into the habit
of using the things once they are saved.

Tools for Crafts Programs

The essential tools and materials needed for crafts work
are determined by the projects, number involved, age of
group, abilities of leaders, facilities at place of meeting.
For classes or club groups of from fifteen to twenty mem-
bers meeting in a place with large work tables and little
else, the following suggestions might be helpful:

Paper Cutter—available for about twelve dollars, makes
possible many paper crafts, cuts preparation time for the
leader and affects the quality of the finished project—
often enabling one to obtain an accuracy not possible with
shears.

Twelve pairs of scissors

6 blunt and 6 sharp ......................................... ..$1.20

For the Fall and Winter
Program

 

    

SUPER RINGER

The Diomond line of Pitching Horseshoes and occes-
sories is the most complete mode. But production is
limited, so get your order in now. Stocked by
leoding iobbers everywhere.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHDE 00.

4616 Grand Avenue 0 Duluth, Minnesota

282

One large pair of shears .................... .. 2.00
One small pair of pointed scissors ...................... .. 2.50
One ice pick or awl ...................................... .. s.  .10-
One paper punch .......................................... .. .. .30
Ouc leather punch, adjustable .................... .. .. 2.00
One pinking shears ............................................ .. 2.50
One pliers ......................................................... .. .39
One tin snips ..........................................  ........... .. 2.50

Rulers and pencils usually can be collected by the chil-
dren from home.

Supplies for General Use: roll of fine wire; Scotch
tape; large roll of masking tape; three boxes of crayolas;
six colors of dry tempera paints; small paper cups for mix-
ing; six glass slabs; small paper plates for working on wax
paper, tracing paper, carbon paper; six small brushes;
six one—inch and three one-and-one-half-inch brushes; a
dozen glue brushes; small bottles of turpentine; alcohol
and white shellac (pint size); adhesives. A word of cau-
lion here: many projects are spoiled by the use of the
wrong adhesive. To avoid this, use such adhesives as rub-
ber' cement (pint size); Duco cement (tube); library
paste (one~half pint size); bottles of mucilage and glue;
two pounds of dry flour paste; two ounces of gum arahic.
Also add to your list of supplies a roll of cotton batting;
newspapers and cloths for cleaning.

Finest In Ihe World
For The World's

Greatest Athletes

Hr hurts-r ur

III F. 'UIIH C PIM'

'NI f‘l/L "
. $3. I. an e. e.

 

RECREATION

ARENA THEATER

An Accounting of the Arena Idea at Tufts College, 1951

LOST:

0 A small proscenium stage, lacking depth, wing space and
loft, but well equipped with lights and sound.

0 Production vying with women’s classes in physical edu-
cation.

0 Versatility, through the illusion of space, of the proscen-
ium stage.

0 Contribution of scenery to quality of productions.

o A working model, for our designers and sccne crcws, of
the standard stage.

0 Forty seats from original seating capacity.

0 Scattered facilities: costumes in one building, carpenter
sh0p in another, storage in a third, rehearsal in a fourth,
classes in a fifth, plays in a sixth and, for an office, a pub-
lic table in the corner of the bookstore.

o The bright dream of a finc building that lookcd likc a
theater.

0 Those, now graduated, who had the initial idea of a
playhouse-laboratory.

o Narrower interpretation of P.P.P.: pen for playwriting,

paint for production and pretzels for the sociability that
goes with group effort.

0 Despair that went with heart-breaking conditions.

GAINED:

0 One of the best intimate arenas in existencc, with good
off-stage facilities.

0 Exclusive use of the entire building.

0 The illusion of reality through the unlimitcd power of
suggestion of the arena.

0 Availability of the stage for classcs, studio productions
and rehearsal of more plays with increased numbcr of pcr-
formances.

oThe time and energy saved from planning, building,
mounting and striking sets.

0 Double our original playing area—as large as, or larger
than, any standard stage.

0 Centralized, if compact facilities, with every square foot
of space doing double duty; shop and storage only parts
separated from the theater. w

0 An effective instrument for the teaching of drama and
the theater.

0 New students who now can have grcater assurance of
realizing their own ideas.

0 More accurate understanding of the society’s function,
which is to promote theater by the production of plays with
strong public participation.

0 Courage from the provision of adequate facilities, with-
in the scope of the arena form.

BALANCE: A theater with an idea, an approach to its realization and a following.

Reprinted from Tufts College Theater Prologue, Medford, Massachusetts.

OCTOBER 1951

283

M‘
w

§

Gulf

When Buffalo’s popular
young mayor, Joseph Mruk, prom-
ised the citizens of his city that recre-
ation facilities would be developed and
broadened to the fullest extent, he
meant what he said. Such facilities
would now he available to young and
old alike.

In sizing up the situation, the most
pressing need for additional program
was found to he among the teen-agers.
Therefore, as soon as permission could
he obtained from Buffalo’s Board of
Education, the public school buildings
——heretofore unused for teen-age pro-
grams during the evening hours—were
opened to a full scale recreation pro-
gram. Commissioner of Parks James
F. Hanlon and his stafic worked out the
broad outlines of the program. An
adequate number of attendants had
to be obtained to supervise shower
and dressing rooms as well as to
prevent vandalism in the buildings
used. Also, trained personnel had to
he selected for leadership. Commis-
sioner Hanlon insisted that every one
of thcse persons not only encourage
fair play and good sportsmanship, but

284

LIGHTED SCHOOLHOUSE

"Sacé. 21m”

also know and understand the recrea-
ational needs of today’s youth.

Sixteen of Buffalo’s newest and most
modern public school buildings were
selected to service all scctions of the
city, and the lighted schoolhouse pro-
gram. was ready to begin. The details
of program planning and supervision
were guided by the able hand of the
city’s energetic director of recreation,
Randolph Mineo.

After making a thorough survey of
similar programs in other cities, the
needs in Buffalo and the funds avail-
able, it was decided that the program
ought to be three-fold, consisting of
social dancing, arts and crafts and free
play in the gymnasiums. It was further
decided that these activities would be
available to boys and girls between the
ages of thirteen to twenty-one inclu-
sive, two evenings weckly, from seven-
thirty until nine-thirty p. 111.

Thus, all activities are operated on a
coeducational basis except for those in
the gymnasium, where Tuesdays are
set aside for the boys and Thursdays
for the girls. In fact, the use of two
gyms in each school makes possible an
even further breakdown of the physical
education aspect of thc program into
age groups—the oldcr boys or girls in

one gym and the younger ones in thc
other.

The task (if supervising the sixteen
schools in the lighted schoolhouse pro-
gram is given to four supcrvisors, cach
of whom is assigned four schools. 011
Tuesday and Thursday evenings, the
supervisors visit each one of the lighted
schools to make a running survey of
the effectiveness of the program as well
as to supervise and aid the instructors
in their work. They also ascertain
whether all needed personnel are pres-
ent.

Dancing” takes place in thc gym-
nasiums of four different schools every
fourth Thursday and, in the coursc of
the entire program, there is a broad-
cast from each school over one of the
major Buffalo radio stations. The rcg-
ular Thursday night women instructors
assist with the dances. The children
who attend are required to removc
their shoes so as not to injure gym-
nasium floors and, hcncc, thc appro-
priate name, “Sock Hop!” Four in-

* ln explanation~—there is dancing every
Thursday night in four different schools with
our PA units. These four teams rotate every
Thursday night, thereby reaching the sixteen
schools within the month. In other words.
there is dancing in the same school once a
month.

RECREATon

Ismar P. Tick

structors, equipped with four public
address systems, turntables and phono-
graph records, provide the music.

At the beginning of the lightcd
schoolhouse program, a dance schedule
was drawn up and distributed to all
pcrsonnel so that the youngsters in
each of the participating schools would
know well in advance just when to ex-
pect a sock hop. Additional publicity
is sent out each week to all local news-
papers, disc jockeys, social agencies.

The groundwork for the sock h0ps
was set during the recreation division’s
During July and
August, more than forty street dances

Slllllll'ler program .

were held on streets adjacent to city
playgrounds and about five hundred
musical selections were collected—hall
on light - weight, long - playing, non -
breakable records, with about eight
numbers to the record. 0f the stand-
ard-popular type, they include such
perennial favorites as “Star Dust,”
“Tea for Two,” and so on. In addition,
a library of current hits is maintained.
Each instructor carries with him an al-
most complete library of recorded mu-
sic and is able to comply with most of
the youngsters5 requests.

When the dance instructor arrives at
the particular school at which there is
to be a hop, he first sets up the public
address system. This takes about fif-
teen minutes. Every sock hop Opens
with the playing of the “Star Spangled
Banner.” From then on it is almost
completely an “all-request’” program,
with the instructor simply fillng in the
gaps between requests. The dance closes
with the playing of some such tune as
“Goodnight Sweetheart” or “Now Is
the Hour.”

OCTOBER 1951

 

Dancing takes place in gymnasiums of four different schools every fourth Thurs-
day. Public school buildings open to full-scale recreation program in evenings.

Buffalo, like most cities, has rather
clearly-defined neighborhoods in which
large numbers of persons of the same
national origin reside. The dance in-
structors therefore attempt, from time
to time, to play some music native to
those countries. The response, gener-
ally, to this type of music is rather
poor—with one exception, and that is
the “Rheiniander.” This type of dance
seems to be overwhelmingly popular in
Buffalo regardless of the national ori-
gins of the dancers. Repeated requests
also are made for the Charleston and
for jitter-bug music, interspersed with
occasional requests for square dance
tunes. However, square dancing has
proved to be rather unsuccessful at
sock hops unless it, is highly organized.
When one of our instructors introduces
it, it is very well received. But the
mere playing of square dance records,
even those with calls, is not sufiicient to
encourage the proper type of partici-
pation.

While large numbers of children
have been attending the sock hops, par-
ticipation in the actual dancing was
rather slow at first. This was particu-
larly true among the boys. It was not
unusual to find girls dancing with each
other and boys sitting around near the
sides of the hall. The instructors dis-
covered that the bright lighting in the
gymnasium had a lot to do with this.
It then became the policy to dim the

lights, with all but one or two over-
head ones turned off. Publicity re-
leases referred to the dances as “Star-
light Sock Hops”; the romantic ele-
mcnt was introduced; and participa-
tion increased ten-fold!

in the school chosen for the weekly
broadcast of the Lighted Schoolhouse
Sock Hop, the dance is conducted in
much the same manner as at any other
hop, with a few exceptions. A little
more color is added to the afiair by the
presence of one of the more prominent
disc jockeys of this area. Celebrities
who happen to be in the city also are
invited to attend and to say a few
words. The disc jockey acts as master
of ceremonies and interviews some of
the youngsters who are present. Those
attending have the added pleasure of
hearing as well as participating be-
cause the dance is tape-recorded for
broadcast at a later hour on the same
evening.

Statistics show a decline of juvenile
delinquency in Buffalo in the past year.
We, of the division of recreation, like
to feel that, through our efforts, we
have contributed in some way to this
decrease. Continued program planning
for the leisure hours of America’s
youth will insure healthier and happier
homes and communities.

Author ISMAR TICK is with the Division.

of Recreation in Buffalo, New York.

285

___h...._....__..:‘;__:l_

l

 

The park-school is a site and building development designed to
accommodate the programs of education and recreation.

HE PARK-SCHOOL as a functional fa-

cility suggests a community devel-
opment for education and recreation
collaboratively planned to house those
for whom these services are intended.
If we accept that these programs are
complementary, then we may say that
the park-school accommodates the pro-
gram of training for useful, responsible
citizenship. In so doing, it does not be-
come a combination shoehorn and hot-
tle opener, serving neither purposie ade-
quately. It admirably serves the com-
plementary needs of education and rec-
reation because many of the facilities
required by each easily are used inter-
changeably.

No Coordination Means Waste

Traditionally, our school, park and
playground sites have been purchased,
deveIOped and operated separately—
and with little or no coordination.
Rather than an expansion of service,
this procedure has been an extravagant
duplication, because, in the daily and
yearly schedule, one has come into use
after the other has fallen idle.

The argument here is not that most
park lands are superfluous and that
recreation should be narrowed to those
community activities which can be cen-
tered about the schoolhouse. It is sim-
ply that, of the complex of activities
served by a well-rounded park system,
some are perfectly well-accommodated
on school sites.

We seem to be able to accept schools
and schoolyards locked all summer to-
gether with parks, often on contiguous
land, whose swimming pools, field

286

Malcolm Kirkpatrick

The Parlo School

as a Functional Facility

houses and locker rooms lie idle near-
ly nine months of the year. It is difii-
cult to understand the complacency
that allows the beleaguered taxpayer to
ignore this two-pronged assault on his
customarily well-guarded purse.

The future offers Opportunities to do
better in our new programs and to
overcome some past errors in areas
destined for slum clearance and rede-
velopment. But the tax dollar must be
used more sensibly or we will be forced
to curtail the community services
which have been an important part of
our way of conducting civic affairs.

A review of the problem can be use-
ful only to the extent that it stimulates
thought—thought in the minds of those
who must face similar problems in our
expanding communities. But each local
problem is individual and should be so
treated.

Basic Considerations

When, in the community planning
process, does a park-school project be-
gin to be “a functional facility”? At
the very outset, of course. Plans to ex-
pand education and recreation facili-
ties must be in proportion to com-
munity resources and in accordance
with trends in population and land use.

A park-school, finding itself, after
ten years, without an audience, because
it was placed in an area logically des-
tined for industrial expansion, was
never a functional facility regardless
of excellence in construction. Site sc-
lection for a particular project seems
to be the point beyond which we can-
not delay careful study if anything

-functional is -to come of the effort.

Site selection is something more than
seizing the cheapest piece of vacant
land available within the area of need.
Probably one of the principal reasons
that the land is cheap is that it is go-
ing to cost a whole lot more to develop
than is apparent to an unwary buyer.
The community’s technical advisers
must be used sensibly in the site-selec-
tion phase. They cannot be brought in
later and be expected to overcome the
errors of indifferent analysis of land
values.

When suitably-placed land is locat-
ed, offering the possibility of improve-
ment costs normal to the community,
the extent of the acquisition must be
considered. The first step toward delin-
ing the required area is a program for
deveIOpment.

The scope of the program will vary
from the smaller coverage of the ele-
mentary school and neighborhood park
to the wider reach—perhaps commu-
nity Wide—0f the high school and ma-
jor recreation center. This scope, of
course, will suggest the elements of de-
velopment, the size of the park-school
building and the nature of its adjuncts
on the site—from paddle tennis courts
to parking areas.

Whatever the appropriate program,
it next should be translated into terms
of acres 5f land to be purchased. To
do this requires a preliminary plan of
site development. This plan need be no
more definitive than a diagram of land-
use, but it must be based upon the con-
formation of the land.

RECREATION

 

If some of the area is cocked to a
thirty-degree angle to the horizontal,
an attempt to use every square foot of
it may incur earthwork and retaining
wall costs in excess of the cost of ac-
quiring additional acreage. The re-
quirements of surface gradient on a
baseball diamond are about as inflex-
ible as those on an auditorium floor.
Consequently, some elbow—room will
enable the designer to dispose of the
elements of the deve10pment to the best
advantage——-with a minimum disturb-
ance to the site and a minimum num-
ber of cubic yards of excavation for
the tax dollars to buy.

* * 'l' *-

No so-called public “improvement”
should, in actuality, be a blight upon
a neighborhood. Let the site be com-
fortably large enough to contain its
activities, to retain fine trees and inter-
esting terrain features and to permit a
margin of attractiveness. These ameni-
ties will be translated into enhanced
and stable neighborhood values and in-
to dollars on the tax roll.

Choice of a site with the knowledge
that work can progress with a mini-
mum of compromise, disappointment
and unexpected eXpense makes the de-
tailed design of the project a stimulat-
ing business. What comes next should
have all the variety of our towns, our
people and our countryside.

Danger of Stock Planning

The stock plan and stock thinking
have been a curse upon the school
building and playground, having
smothered individual expression in the
solutions to our highly-individual
problems. While there should be no
stock plan and, although the elements
making up the park-school deve10p-
ment will vary in size, kind and num-
ber, there are some comments that
generally are applicable.

The park-school building should be
considered first and foremost not as a
thing apart, but as one of the several
elements designed to function collec-
tively. It has no more importance in a
site study than other elements—a bank
of tennis courts, a play area or a park-

ing area. The point here is that land

OCTOBER 1951

areas are not elements fitted into what
is left over from a predetermined build-
ing area.

Park-School Building Serves
Education and Recreation

The park-school building, as a de-
sign unit, is not simply the old school-
house in a new and stylish setting. It
is a multipurpose building serving edu-
cation and recreation needs. The de-
tails of its equipment vary with the in-
tended sCOpe of service but, gener-
ally, it contains administrative head-
quarters for recreation activities, toi-
lets and, perhaps, lockers and showers,
independently accessible from the reg-
ular park site.

The building may have special adult
social and crafts rooms or these may
be adaptable classrooms; in either
casc, mechanical equipment is so ar-
ranged that the rooms may be heated
separately for after-school use. The
larger units may provide an audito-
rium and gymnasium.

If these attract pe0ple from a wide-
spread area, off-street parking must be
considered. The building must then be
so placed in relation to the street sys-
tem and the parking area that vehicu-
lar and pedestrian traffic does not in-
tersect within the site.

Of the other elements of site devel-
opment, the ones needing most atten-
tion are the formal play areas as dis-
tinguished from the more casual play
fields. The asphalt jungles that have
come to mean “playground” to us are
a disgrace to our native ingenuity. Ac-
ceptance of an irreducible minimum in
Manhattan is no excuse for providing
similar bare necessities of paving, pipe
and chain-link fence in new, uncrowd-
ed residential neighborhoods.

'l' 'l' 'l' *-

Such areas should be equipped to
serve those from under six to over sixty
and be attractive to the family group.

Multiple-use and game courts and.

shaded sitting areas for mothers and
infants suggest possibilities for adding
more appeal.

The principal thing needed to make
an attractive play area is adequate
space so that necessary paved areas

may be interspersed with shrub plant-
ings and shade trees. Nothing men-
tioned here precludes the exclusive use
of this facility for school purposes at
the appropriate time of day. In fact,
the value of this part of the school pro-

gram probably would be appreciably
enhanced.

The larger playfield, with broad ex-
panses of grass, can be a very pleasant
adjunct, giving a spacious setting to
the park-school building. It provides
ample room for the school intramural
sports program and for casual neigh-
borhood participation in softball, other

field games or the holding of com-
munity events.

One of the few conflicts to be rea-
sonably expected between education
and recreation programs may develop
from interschool athletic competition.
The possibility of conflicting interests
is a matter of local community temper-
ament. In some communities, there is
a spirited following of high school
teams. Our schools have recognized
the exclusive nature of highly-organ-
ized team competition and have devel-
Oped the intramural program in an
effort to broaden participation.

Somewhat the same consideration
should, in all fairness, be given the
neighborhood wishes. In general, the
extensive playing fields and large spec-
tator attendance are foreign to the best
interests of the neighborhood park-
school. Such activities may better be
confined to the highest public school
level or accommodated in Specially-de-
signed sports parks.

This, briefly then, is the park-school,
a functional facility for community
education and recreation so designed
that the programs of each are eXpand-
ed and improved through the comple-
mentary facilities of the other. It may
not literally be two for the price of one
but, with one coordinated site and

building plan, it is a long step toward
efficient expenditure of tax funds.

 

Reprinted by permission of the Journal
of Health, Physical Education and Rec-

reation. Author is landscape architect.

287

1——

 

How To Do iTQ Bg_Zm/éf%o__é=

Prim‘ in‘iiials and designs on handkerchleissiowds— CUPiClinS.

Maieriais needed.
Poia‘io 9 knife 9 brush,

and. enamel painio
' - A
"3. :4 ‘
" Vs -:-I

I". .:1

I. Cu1~ po‘iaio in haif 0 ac Draw design on {lo} cui surface.

   
   
 

   
   

DIRECTIONS 0”

Design

W 1
21674. dam"

3.Cu‘i awag 10 depih of aboui Minor] ilai surface of poia’ro ‘ihaiK is

  
  

4.Wiih brush paini raised surface 65

designs. Use enamei paini or
ariisi oil pain‘i on cioih . For
paper priniinq waier coior

can be used . Painiing raised design

5. Place clon on padding oi newsPaper. Then press painied pO‘l‘aio
design on cidho Use even pressure ‘io insure good priniing .

(9° Lifi poiaio from cioih. Repaini poiaio design ‘ior each prini‘inq .
A/oXe : 5r besf resu/fs was/2 and press c/o/b before prev/7})? .

288 RECREATION

Frank J. Anneberg

11E MIDDLE-AGED MAN in the third row was singing!
We’d seen him before at other community gatherings
and knew him as one of those “nothing-you-can-do-will-

 

Gesture singing helps programs, involves acting out words or
ideas of a song. Audience loses self-consciousness, has fun.

interest-me” types. His folded arms and set expression had
challenged our efforts from the beginning.

But tonight he was singing. It was another triumph for
gesture singing, or singing with motion.

It is not an original idea. This type of vocal hilarity
has been a favorite at conventions, camps and banquets for
years; but, in the past two years, we have realized its
wider possibilities here in Manhattan, Kansas.

Almost any type of meeting—that of church, grange,
PTA, 4-H club or a golden age group——is fair game for
group singing with motion. Instead of participation by
just a few who fancy that they have vocal talent, as too
often is the case in conventional community sings, we
have managed almost one hundred per cent participation

 

Between gesture songs, Author FRANK J. ANNEBERG serves
as the superintendent of recreation in Manhattan, Kansas.

OCTOBER 1951

through songs with motion.

The song that turned the trick for our middle-aged man
was “Three Blind Mice.” Our version goes something like
this:

Three (three fingers are extended on each hand and
both arms raised in sweeping gestures) blind (hands
clapped over eyes) mice (singer pulls up pant legs, stands
on tiptoes and stares down in horror at an imaginary
mouse).

With everyone else waving their arms and jumping up
and down, the middle-aged man couldn’t help but smile
and move his arms at least a little bit. The ice broken so
easily, be soon was joining the singing.

That’s the secret. We believe that many community sings
fall flat because people are concerned with their own shy-
ness, think that they have poor voices or are afraid that
they don’t remember the words.

But it is hard to Wave your arms, make faces, watch
the faces the other fellow is making and still worry about
yourself. With inhibitions forgotten, it’s just plain natural
to join the singing. And, when everyone sings, one voice
0H key is hard to notice, even for its owner.

Gesture songs only are a part of our singing with motion,
which includes coordinated movement songs (everyone
swaying back and forth), rhythm songs (with clapping or
tapping of spoons or feet), and such rounds and stunt
songs as “Old MacDonald Had a Farm.”

Mix them up, starting off with gestures for an old fa-
vorite, and then, when the group seems relaxed, throw in
a harmony favorite without gestures and see if you’re
not surprised at the quantity and quality of response.

We have found it possible to make an evening’s pro-
gram of singing with motion where, before, about twenty
minutes was our limit.

The better the qualities of the song leader, as a leader
or singer, the more success he will achieve. However, it
seems that a song leader in charge of a program of
singing with motion need not be as experienced as a per-
son who is required to lead straight singing.

I personally have found it rather easy to get one hun-
dred per cent cooperation from a crowd in this type of
program. Everyone, from pre-school-aged children to the
golden-agers, participates. It is accepted that many people
cannot sing the words to a song either because they do

289

not know them, cannot see to read them, have not sung
a note for forty years or for some other real or imagined
reason. But there is something in the psychology of move-
ment that brings out a greater percentage of cooperation.

We almost always use assistants from the audience. It
takes away the psychological target from the outsider-
leader, gives the group a feeling of cooperating with one of
their own and ccrtainly adds variety. Assistants can direct
separate sections of a round and spot those not cooperat-
ing in stunt or gesture songs.

Incidentally, our use of gesture singing was good for a
nice bit of publicity. Jim Rippey, a reporter for the Man-
hattan Mercury-Chronicle, spotted some of our pictures of
gesture singing. A two-column story under a three-column
picture was the result and Mr. Rippey later assisted in the
preparation of this article.

In conclusion, I first want to give you a list of songs
we use and then to invite you all to send in to the Na-
tional Recreation Association the songs you have found
useful. Perhaps a pamphlet or other piece of printed ma-
terial might be published—one that we may all use to in-
crease our repertoire. The ones you send in need not be
original. The ones I use have been picked up at conven-

tions, out of books, obtained from song leaders in churches,
4-H clubs, service clubs and publications. They include
the following.

Rounds:

Row, Row. Row Your Boat

Are You Sleeping?
Lil Tom Tinker

Stunt Songs:

Grand Old Duke of York
The More We Get Together
Alouette

Old MacDonald

Working on the Railroad
You Must Pass This Shoe

Songs with Gestures:

My Bonnie Lies Over the Ocean
Down by the Old Mill Stream
Six Little Ducks
Three Blind Mice

Coming ’Round the Mountain

Let Me Call You Sweetheart

Rhythm Songs:

John Brown’s Body

The More We Get Together
Jingle Bells

One finds it difficult to differentiate betwccn the cate-
gories and so we refer to them all as “singing with mo-
tion.” At times, a round may have gestures and a stunt

song may be sung standing, sitting and with or without
motions.

May I suggest that when you send in your songs, you
also include the gestures or how you use them, so that
instructions may be included in the publication. By hear-
ing from all parts of the country, we will have the oppor-

tunity of becoming acquainted with new songs. (Sec NRA’s
MP-325—Action Songs—35 cents—ED.)

 

Personalities in the Reereation News . . .

FLIlYll A. llllWE

Floyd A. Rowe, one of the outstanding and best be-
loved leaders in the national recrcation movement, re-
tired on September first.

Mr. Rowe achieved national recognition in three related
fields: recreation, physical education and health educa-
tion. He was graduated in 1908 from the University of
Michigan and took graduate work at both the University
of Michigan and Western Reserve University.

He served four years as director of intramural athletics,
University of Michigan; one year as field representative
for Community Service, Incorporated; four years as di-
rector of physical education for the Michigan State De-
partment of Education.

In 1923 he was appointed director of physical welfare
of the Board of Education of Cleveland, Ohio, with re-
sponsibility for the recreation, physical education and
health education services of the Cleveland public schools.

From September 194-6 to the time of his retirement,
Floyd Rowe served as coordinator of recreation for the
Joint Recreation Board of the city of Cleveland and the
Cleveland Board of Education, to develop effective co-
ordination of the city and school recrcation programs.

Recreation leaders present at thc Midccntury National
Recreation Congress, held in Cleveland, October 2-6, 1950,

290

 

will remember the friendly efficicncy with which he han-
dled the arrangements of the congress as chairman of the
local arrangements committee.

Mr. Rowe is a member of the National Advisory Com-
mittee on Defense-Related Services and of thc Committee
on Competitive Sports and Activities for Boys Under
Twelve of the National Recreation Association.

Floyd is making his home with his son, Dr. Peter Rowc,
in Reno, Nevada, and plans to do a little fishing and
hunting and possibly some part-timc teaching.

His many friends in recreation wish Floyd a full meas-
ure of enjoyment in his well-earned leisure, and 110pe that
the recreation movement can continue to count on his
statcsmanlike thinking in the years to come, as it has in
the past.

RECREATION

I

1

A Metropolitan Recreation Council

THE METROPOLITAN RECREATION and
Youth Services Council of Los An-
geles County, California, was organ-
ized to answer some of the baffling
problems of planning which confront
the major recreation agencies, public
and private, in that area. Increasingly,
during the recent period of rapid
growth of the community, questions
have arisen, such as: How much money
should be appropriated by the county?
By the city? By the board of educa-
tion? By the Community Chest? Who
should build swimming pools? How
large should a community clubhouse
be? How much staff is needed on play-
grounds? How do we avoid overlap-
ping? A comprehensive study in 1945,
The Sarenson Survey, pointed out the
need for a strong planning group to be
of assistance in answering these.

The Metropolitan Recreation and
Youth Services Council fulfills this
function, providing a representative
and responsible channel for the 000p-
eration of public and private agencies
and representatives of the community-
at-large in the planning and develop-
ment of sound and adequate recreation
and youth services for Los Angeles
County.

It is fact-finding and advisory in its
functions, respecting the integrity and
right to independent action by the con-
stituent and cooperating organizations.
The council expects the acceptance of
its recommendations as justified by
their essential soundness, propriety and
practicability. Its force in the com-
munity is moral and suasive, rather
than legal and mandatory.

It works very closely with the organ-
izations which created it—namely, the
Board of Supervisors of Los Angeles
County and its Department of Parks
and Recreation, the mayor and City
Council of Los Angeles, the Los An-
geles City Board of Education, the Los
Angeles City Recreation and Park
Commission, the Welfare Federation of

Adapted from the first annual report of
the Metropolitan Recreation and Youth
Services Council of Los Angeles County.

OCTOBER 1951

Los Angeles Area, the Welfare Council
of Metropolitan Los Angeles, and the
various public bodies and private agen-
cies affected by its findings and its rec-
ommendations. It also feels responsi-
bility to the public-at-large and to busi-
ness and civic leaders.

Organization

The council is composed of thirty
outstanding lay citizens: ten elected or
appointed public officials having board
or similar responsibility in the field of
public recreation or youth services; ten
board members or presidents of vol-
untary youth services and recreation
organizations; and ten citizens-at-
large, chosen because of their civic
activity and interest in recreation and
youth services. It further makes wide
use of advice from, and consultation
with, experts, technicians and staff
members of cooperating recreation and
youth services agencies, both infor-
nially and as members of the Techni-
cal Advisory Committee.

The council was organized in 1948.
Funds were obtained in 1949—~—equally
from the county of Los Angeles, the
city of Los Angeles, the city board of
education and the Welfare Federation
of Los Angeles Area. Contracts were
consummated with both the city recre-
ation and park commission and the
city board of education, outlining a
comprehensive charter of work to be
done. Work began on October 16,
1949; incorporation was effected in
February, 1950; staff obtained within
the next three months.

Work

This, for the first year, has followed
three major headings: the gathering of
basic information; planning and coor-
dination; and consultation on problems
confronting specific agencies.

Gathering of Basic Information

Location and Distribution of Serv-
ices and Facilities—“Basic to planning
was the assembling of data on the
amount and kind of recreation and
youth services now available in Los

Describing the purposes
and activities of an

agency created to foster
cooperative planning in
a metropolitan region.

 

Angeles County. Questions to be an-
swered were: “What do we have?”
“How is it being used?” “How many
attend?” “What does it cost?” “How
much staff is required?” Factual an-
swers to these questions were assem-
bled, categorized, analyzed, reported.

In order to make the material us-
able for separate localities, the county
was divided into 101 study areas, each
contributing pertinent facts. By the
end of 1950, information was prac-
tically complete on the relative con-
tribution of the public agencies in each
area by finance, facilities, leadership
and attendance. The same informa-
tion regarding private agencies now is
being gathered. h

Kind, Location, Cost of Physical
Facilities—Because no up-to-date in-
ventory of facilities was available, the
major agencies collaborated with the
council in obtaining such an inventory.
Questionnaires were distributed to all
known public and private recreation
agencies in the county. Work on this
study of the outdoor facilities of the
Los Angeles County Department of
Parks and Recreation now is complete
and awaiting distribution to the inter-
ested public agencies. As the study
progresses, similar data will be avail-
able to analyze the various areas of the
county, so that gaps and duplications
may be uncovered and remedied.

Planning and Coordination

Swimming Pools—Each of the agen-
cies has been faced with the question
of the location and distribution of addi-
tional swimming pools. “Are they
needed?” “What kind and in what
areas?” “Who should take responsibil-
ity for building them?” To answer

291

these questions, an intensive study was
made of swimming pool operation
within the county. A group of thirty
administrators and experts in swim-
ming pool operation spent months of

collaboration in analyzing the problem
and the study should be of material

assistance to the responsible agencies.

Among some of the facts uncovered
are: Less than half of the children of
Los Angeles know how to swim well
enough to meet minimum standards of

safety.

traditional

American
Playgrounds

n”-

 

  

 

ay/Iféé'c @(gb/mw/

292

There were many drownings in
beachhead landings during the reccnt
war because of the lack of swimming
ability.

Where schools have swimming pools,
nearly three-quarters of the children
know how to swim. At the other ex-
treme, there are schools without avail-
ahle pools where only twenty-two per
cent of the children can swim.

PeOple in Southern California do not
swim outdoors when the weather is less
than summer heat.

[.5 There Duplication?-——To answer
the question: “Are public and private
agencies in an area serving the same
people, thus duplicating each other, or
are they distributing their services
throughout the whole population?” the
council studied the participation of
everyone in recreation programs, pub-
lic and private, in the Watts area dur-
ing one week. The study revealed that
there was little overlapping. Only seven
per cent of the participants attended
more than one recreation center. How-
ever this did not indicate a duplica-
tion, but merely the journeying of chil-
dren from one agency to another to
obtain a difierent type of scrvice or
activity.

Problem-Solving

Location of a New Boys’ Club—
Should a new boys’ club be built in an
area of high delinquency which al-
ready has certain recreation facilities?
If so, where shall it be located? These
questions were presented to the coun-
cil by one prospective new agency. To
answer them necessitated a thorough
study of the district and of the services
already offered, and collaboration be-
tween leaders of agencies and of the
community.

Use of Schools—One study now in
progress has to do with the problems
surrounding the use of public schools
under the Civic Center Act and the
Community Recreation Act. The
schools are potentially the greatest rec-
reation facility in the community, but
questions of legality, interpretation, ad-
ministration, finance and budgeting
face the schools and community con-
stantly. The Los Angeles City Board
of Education has asked thc council to
assist with these problems.

Other Studies

Other studies, some of which are

now in progress, include inquiry into
the recreation aspccts of eleven pro-
posed public housing developments;
study of the system of fees and charges
for public recrcation facilitics; study
of the feasibility of joint planning be-
tween boards of education and recrc-
ation dcpartments for the construction
of swimming pools; and an analysis of
participation on approximately thirty-
five different public playgrounds.

The Emergency

Today, far-sighted organizations are
concerned with the efiect of military
and industrial mobilization upon thcir
plans and purposes. Rccrcation and
youth services must be l'e-evaluated
with reference to the current statc of
emergency.

The need for basic community rec-
reation services does not disappear at
such a time. World War 11 demon-
strated that high morale among civil-
ian and military forces was as im-
portant as the actual existence of ma-
chines and weapons. Records of pro-
duction workers revealed that prOper
recreation reduced absenteeism, im-
proved production quotas and aidcd
morale. Management recognized recre-
ation as a potent mechanism for in-
creasing war production.

The emergency emphasizes the neccs-
sity of scrutinizing the esscntialness of
additional services and facilities. Thc
council is now in the process of con-
sulting with agencies on proposed addi-
tional recreation structures and their
relative importance at this time.

Conclusion

The well-being of the people of Los
Angeles requires the deve10pment of a
sound recreation program suited to thc
needs of thc community, fitted to the
citizen’s pocketbook and pr0perly co-
ordinated to avoid duplication and to
distribute services equitably. The Sor-
enson Survey states: “To achieve con-
tinuous responsible and inclusive plan-
ning and joint action, the planning
must be done by the board oliicers rc-
sponsible for policies, by the techni-
cians drawing plans and by the execu-
tives in charge of Operations. These
three groups need to plan continu-
ously.”

The Mctropolitan liccreation and
Youth Serviccs Council is well on the
road to achieving this goal.

RECREATION

Agnes Page Hulscy

Ilobbies

I Set My Housework to Music

I’M A FORMER EAVESDROPPER who de-

cided to go straight. Off and on for
eight hours each day, I used to bend
an eager ear toward the radio to catch
dreary domestic doings and undoings
—otherwise known as “soap operas”;
and I’d probably still be the unseen
visitor in these unfortunate homes had
it not been for a casual question from
my six-year-old son. Johnny one day
looked up at me appraisingly during a
station break and asked: “Mama, how
many husbands have you had al-
ready?” Obviously, something drastic
had to be done immediately. Breathing
a fervent farewell to the forlorn, I
reached for the dial . . .

However, when I made the switch
from misery to music, I must admit
that I was dubious. True, I had al-
ways been a music lover but, usually,
reserving music for after-dinner relax-
ation. I had associated it with reposc
and the easy chair rather than with
activity and the polishing cloth. I had
yet to learn that there are discs for
washing dishes, platters for mixing
batters and waxings for everything!

The next morning saw the new plan
in full sway———or perhaps I should say
full swing. I swept the floors to the
majestic strains of “Beautiful Blue
Danube” and washed windows to “Top
Tunes of Today.” I ironed while Mary
Martin sighed vocally “I’m in Love
with a Wonderful Guy,” washed clothes
to some of Sigmund Romberg’s songs
and cleaned pictures while receiving
vocal and moral support from Gladys
Swarthout on record. Walking to the
grocery store that afternoon, I caught
myself humming a tune I had heard
earlier in the day. What ailed me?

MRS. HULSEY keeps quite busy with her
son, his school and all the housework.

OCTOBER 1951

After all that I’d done, 1 should have
been dead tired!

The next day was an improvement
over the day before, so the plan has
been in constant use ever since.

Quite frankly and unabashedly now,
I set my housework to music because
I enjoy it. It is alternatingly sooth-
ing, relaxing, inspiring, encouraging,
thought-provoking, funny or melan-
choly—but invariably rich and enter-
taining.

On the more practical side, I listen
to music because it actually helps me
to do my housework. Just as a dancer
follows the rhythm of the music, so I
find my working motions following
the tempo of a song. Gay, sprightly,
fast-moving songs hurry me along my
way when the time is short and the
task is long. Jobs such as mopping
floors or cleaning woodwork I do in
less time and with less effort, thanks
to the energetic encouragement of
rousing football tunes or fast-stepping
military music. The same up-and-at-
’em songs which send the star player
rocketing across the field for a touch-
down also send me into the game to
tackle the job of rearranging the liv-
ing-room furniture or painting the
shower floor. And I sometimes wonder
how many miles of woodwork and
floor space John Philip Sousa’s mili-
tary music has lured me into covering!
Even though I have been armed with
nothing more deadly than a mop and
scouring cloth, it’s certainly to his
credit that he has kept me on the
march.

I couldn’t have felt more helpless if

I’d lost my most prized household ap-
pliance than I did the day Fred War-

ing left his daily eleven a.m. spot on
radio station WSB. Probably Mr.
Waring emphatically would deny that

he ever helped me clean house, but I

can say in all honesty that my apart:

ment hasn’t quite looked the same since
he left.

Not the least important advantage of
my musical adventurc—that of becom-
ing more tolerant of music that I
thought I’d never learn to like—came
about very gradually. Occasionally I
have had to mend and darn to folk
music when I would have preferred
semi-classical, but I have come to learn
that good folk music can be very ap-
pealing and satisfying.

Like everything else under the sun,
however, my plan lacks absolute per-
fection. There are times when I must
mop to Mozart’s music when I’d rather
have Irving Berlin or dust to bebop
when I’d like “Claire de Lune.” But
these moments of lesser enjoyment give
me a deeper appreciation of the fine
music which keeps me company the
greater portion of my time.

Friends ask a good question: “Don’t
you ever get tired of it?” I have a
good answer. “No, never.” The sup-
ply of available good music is as end—
less as the skies. Besides, good music,
like friends, grows dearer and more
treasured over a period of time.

Of course, I realize that there are
some women who need no mental
boosters. They eye the bulging clothes-
hamper, the pajama-strewn bedroom
and the staggering stack of dirty dishes
with eager anticipation; then dive into
the sea of housework with all the en-
thusiasm and grace of Esther Williams
diving into a swimming pool. But,
then, there are women who don’t. For
these, who must do housework anyway,
I heartily recommend music as an
anodyne. It does for housework what
novocain does for a tooth: it deadens
the pain while the work is going on.

293

W. C. Sutherland

PROFESSIONAL RECREATION TRAINING I

IN THE SEPTEMBER issue of RECREA-

TION, we reported on the number
and location of colleges and universi-
ties offering major curriculums in rec-
reation. Also, the report indicated that
quite a large number of men and wom-
en are graduating each year with recre-
ation degrees. The purpose of this
article is to identify some of the forces
back of this training movement and to
report on some of the deve10pments in-
fluencing the professional preparation
for recreation leadership.

The National Recreation Association
started, over forty years ago, to de-
ve10p materials and services in support
of 'recreation courses in colleges and
universities. In 1907, the first National
Recreation Congress discussions on
training resulted in the appointment of
a study committee. After an investiga-
tion of the work being done through-
out the country, and in order to meet
the demands for leaders, three courses
in play were organized—one in play
for professional directors.

“The Normal Course in Play” was
published in 1909, and Dr. Clark W.
Hetherington, chairman of the associa-
tion’s first training committee, visited
normal schools and colleges to advise
with faculty members about thcse
courses. Years later, Eugene T. Lies, of
the association’s staff, gave similar
service.

A number of years ago, in answer to
increasing requests, a suggested four-

MR. SUTHERLAND is in charge of Rec-
reation Personnel Service of the NRA.

294

—Whose Responsibility?

year undergraduate curriculum was
prepared by the NRA. This has had a
wide circulation among colleges and
universities.

In addition, several national confer-
ences on college training have been
held throughout the years, beginning
with the one at Minnesota University
in 1937 and followed by those at North
Carolina and New York Universities in
1939 and 1941 respectively. The more
recent ones, and the most comprehen-
sive, were those held in 1948 on under-
graduate training and in 1950 on grad-
uate preparation.

The results of the last two national
conferences are still deve10ping through
their reports and a Continuing Com-
mittee. This committee, as part of its
function, is developing evaluation cri-
teria which may be used for accredita-
tion purposes.

The Training Committee of the
American Recreation Society also
maintains an active interest in such
subjects as accreditation and the cer-
tification of recreation leaders. The so-
ciety and the National Recreation As-
sociation have participated in the na-
tional training conferences and have
cooperated in many other ways in mat-
ters related to the over-all training
problem.

The College Recreation Association,
organized at the National Recreation
Congress in 1948, is anothcr group
which is becoming increasingly active.
Important among its several objectives
is the improvement of professional
preparation for recreation leadership.

Garrett G. Eppley, of Indiana Univer-
sity, the first president of this new or-
ganization, has been succeeded by Ger-
ald B. Fitzgerald, of Minnesota Uni-
versity.

During the Week of the 1950 Na-
tional Recreation Congress, the Collegc
Recreation Association held its second
annual meeting and heard reports from
committees on graduate curriculum,
campus recreation, field service and re-
search. By the time this article ap-
pears, the third annual meeting will
have been held at the Boston Recrea-
tion Congress.

It should be clear by now, even to
the casual reader, that the opportuni-
ties for professional education for rec-
reation have been increasing rapidly.
Also, there have been, and are now,
important forces back of, and guiding,
this new professional training devc10p-
ment.

There is need, however, for still fur-
ther attention to the over-all profes-
sional training situation, particularly
as it relates to the profession itself.
The recreation profession must let the
college faculties know what it considers
as sound, liberal and gencral educa-
tion. In addition, it must organize and
present its conceptions and ideas as to
what constitutes an acceptable semi-
professional and professional under-
graduate and graduate recreation edu-
cational program. Education for pro-
fessional responsibility in recreation,
if a higher standard of service is to
be assured, must start in the under-
graduate curriculum, bc extended

RECREATION

through professional graduate training,
and be continued aftcr graduation
through organized professional and
service organizations.

In the absencc of a broad represen-
tative coordinating body and a central
authority for the supervision of pro-
fessional education for recreation, the
colleges voluntarily should undertake
the practice of self-evaluation, with the

help of the profession. As might bc
expccted of our prescnt collcge rccrea-
tion instructors, they are moving in
this direction. At the present time,
some of them are working hard on
criteria for this purpose. This is tangi-
ble evidence of their sense of responsi-
bility for the recreation movement. But
we need more evidence that the profes-
sion itself feels an equal responsibility

for the kind of training the future lead-
ers of the recreation movement are to
receive. The recreation executives espe-
cially should be concerned with, and
ready to help in, the inlprovemcnt of
professional training. Also, they should
become increasingly active in recruit-
ing and directing the proper type of
students to our college recreation train-
ing centers.

 

7W--

STATE OF RECREATION DEGREES

gXECUTIVES IN THE MAJORITY of Indiana cities either have, or are working

on, advanced degrees in recreation, reports Garrett Epply, chairman of the De-

partment of Recreation at Indiana University in Bloomington.

 

have taken some courses beyond their M.S.

Executives in Gary, Wabash County and Evansville have completed courses

for a doctorate in recreation, while executives in Allen County and Bloomington

In Hammond, South Bend, and Lafayette, executives have completed their
master degrees in physical education. Those in La Porte, Fort Wayne, Elkhart
and Crawfordsville have completed bachelor degrees and have taken some

courses toward an M.S., with a major in recreation.

In addition to the executives, several staff members also have completed, or

are working on, master degrees. Although academic standards alone, and in

themselves, do not assure successful leadership, nevertheless employers are giv-

ing more consideration to formal and professional education. Following World

War II, some veterans with only high school education trained in recreation de-

partments under the G. I. Education Bill. But, recently, one of the men who had

trained in a southern city and another who had received his on-the-job training

in the North returned to college. They found that they were not able to ad-

vance in the recreation profession and compete successfully against college

graduates for the various positions offered in the field—W. C. S.

 

OCTOBER 1951

295

 

Parcels from Oldsters
The Golden Age Club of Reno, Ne-
vada, has adopted a platoon of marines
fighting in Korea to whom it sends

parcels of books, magazines and candy.

As oldsters receive great satisfaction
from performing services for others,
this is an excellent idea which could
easily be adopted by other such groups.
Writes Henry T. Swan, Supervisor of
Recreation, “We picked our platoon at
random, with a little help from the lo-
cal marine recruiter. We will be happy
to supply full details to any interested
group.”

The following is excerpted from a
letter which they received from a ma-
rine first lieutenant: “Your letter has
added a personal touch that is un-
matched by the efforts of other clubs
who attempt to do something for the
troops. I wish you could have seen the
smiles as our squad leaders asked, ‘Is
it just for our platoon?’

“Because of our frequent moves, we
cannot carry regular sized books. How-
ever, the troops are starved for short
novels, pocket books, comic books and
so on. We would greatly appreciate
such publications as Time, Life, Look,
Quick, Reader’s Digest, Coronet, Es-
quire, True, Argosy and sports maga-
zines. Don’t worry about dates . . .

“The fruit cake sounds excellent! I
believe the cakes could stand the long
hard voyage and remain fresh and un-
broken. Candy is also at a premium
here and nuts are unheard of.”

296

Children’s Book Week

Last year a grade school class in
Roseville, Michigan, was invited by
the local librarian to prepare a display
for Book Week. The children appoint-
ed a committee among themselves and
set to work on a display which attract-

ed attention and admiration all week.

Some of the girls loaned their dolls
. . . there was a colored doll to repre-
sent “Uncle Tom’s Cabin” . . . a group
of Indian dolls and silver jewelry to
draw attention to the Indian books in
the library, an “Alice in Wonderland”
doll and a Japanese doll that really
came from Japan.

The boys in the class brought their
airplanes and sailboats, and one of the
boys made the sign which told of the
handcraft books to be found on the
library shelves. There were posters and
pencil drawings . . . and an original
poem advising the public of the Bene-
fits to be derived from reading good
books

A noticeable increase in the circula-

tion of children’s books was observed '

by the librarians, and other classes
were invited to plan future displays.
Recreation Baskets

The Jefferson County Playground
and Recreation Board, Armory Build-
ing, Louisville, Kentucky, sponsors a
nice service project. High school
youngsters prepare “sunshine recrea-
tion baskets” for the hospital. These
baskets contain seven packages—one
to be opened each day of the week——

and every package contains a new game
to play. After a patient is through with
them, he returns them for use by
others, just as though returning lend-
ing-library books.
Magazine at \Vork

One way of putting RECREATION

magazine to work was illustrated at a

southern district confer-

recreation
ence last spring. Two section meetings
were held 011 the subject of Recreation
Administration, and lists of questions
to be discussed at each were drawn up
by the leader and distributed. Accom-
panying each question on the lists, he
referred to some article on the subject
which had appeared in RECREATION

during the last four months.

Multiple Use of Facilities

One method of obtaining multiple
use of facilities is evident in Mar-
quette, Michigan. The floor of the
Palestra arena is composed of four
hundred eighty-seven sections, each
three by twelve feet. These are removed
late in the fall so an artificial indoor
ice rink can be built. An ice plant
was installed the previous winter, and
the public will be enjoying indoor skat-
ing for the first time this season, begin-
Oetober 3I.-——Reprinted from

Park Maintenance magazine.

ning

Teen Center Ideas

0 In one corner of the main room
there is a small library and a college
corner containing catalogs of a large
number of colleges and universities, as
well as pennants from various schools.
This has proved to be a popular place.
m—Otmmwa, Iowa.

0 One bulletin board displays car-
toons that the group has posted for
others to enjoy. Another board is used
as a signature board. Anyone may
write his name on it. Later, when any-
one has spare time, he takes the wood-
burning tools and goes over the signa-
tures, thereby making them permanent.
—Vancouver, Washington.

A Ham Radio Club
At Christmas, the Ham Radio Club

at Tennessee Eastman (with forty-six
members) planned a party for orphans
in a nearby orphanage. The amateur
operators told their plans to other ama-
teur operators all over the country, and
invited them to send presents. Result?
Over a truck load of gifts for the chil-
dren and a very merry Christmas!

RECREATION

'.|.

In every Field of sport In Profes-
sional. Semi-Pro and Amateur Base:
ba', \nd Soltball in Universities.
Co legs: and High Schools. in Ma-
r rp‘lI and Industrial Recreation.
Mchrcgor-Goldsmith Sports
Equipment is recognized as a hali-
markpi quality and “overlying

perform once.

 man/oz am .7

 

Ocrossa 1951

IlII.‘ an"- thEO I 'wi'
D in I a an podr‘ Mu- In In
led and I. til stucco-on
a. II! II II pin' ml 1‘ - I.“

I"'IINV‘J'MMA‘II l4. OHSO. NV 3- I

THIS BIG ILLUSTRATED

A LEATHERCBAFT

CATALOG AND GUIDE

 

LARSON LEATHERCRAFT
FOR CRAFTS CLASSES

Complete Stock - Prompt Shipment

Leathercraft is our only business, and our stock is the
largest and most complete in America. That is why you
can always depend upon immediate and complete ship-
ment of orders sent to us. Whether your requirements
are for beginners’ kits needing no tools or experience, for
very young boys and girls, or tooling leathers, supplies
and tools for older, more advanced students or hobbyists,
be sure to check the LARSON LEATHEBCRAFT CATA

LOG first. \Vrite today for your FREE co y of our big il—
lustrated Catalog and Guide to latest Leatl'iercraft projects.

J. C. LARSON COMPANY

The Foremost Name in Leather-croft

820 S. Tripp Ave., Dept. 1207, Chicago 24, Ill.

J. c. mason co., Dept. 1207
820 S. Tripp Ave-. Chicago 24. III.

Please send me a FREE copy of your latcst
Illustrated Catalog and Guide to Leathercraft.

NAME
ADDRESS

 

 

—————-c———- —

 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 

77Mad

[UltEEE Till!

 

Published in July--

Physical Education Handbook

by DON CASH SEATON, Head, Department of Physical
Education and Varsity Track Coach, University of
Kentucky; IRENE A. CLAYTON, Director of Physical
Education, Bryn Mawr College; HOWARD c. LEIBEE,
Supervisor of Physical Education, University of
Michigan; and LLOYD MESSERSMITH, Chairman, De-
partment of Health and Physical Education, South-
ern Methodist University.

Here is the FIRST text designed for student use
in required (service) Physical Education pro-
grams. Written for the beginner, PHYSICAL
EDUCATION HANDBOOK integrates material
on 26 different sports and activities ordinarily in-
cluded in a modern college program of physical
education. The all-inclusive “how-to” treatment
of sports enables students to use this text through-
out their physical education program.

281 pages - drawings - diagrams - photos - '8"x101/-2"

To be published in September--

Handbook of Active Games

by DARWIN A. IIINDMAN, Professor of Physical Edu—
cation, University of Missouri.“

For the first time, a complete, intelligibly classi-
fied collection of all recognized games together
with their descriptions is presented in this new
text. The Handbook does away with the confusion
caused by conflicting names, rules, and lack of
acceptable definition for many games. It offers
invaluable help in allowing the physical education
director to find new games with which to round
out his program and to teach the rules of new and
old games more quickly. A total of 823 games
every recognized major and minor athletic or
gymnastic game that im'olves big muscle or whole-
body activity—are covered in this book.

 

Approx. 424 pages — .31*§;”xiilé” — Diagrams

Send for your copies today!

PRENTICE-HALL, INC.
70 Fifth Avenue New York 11, MY. l

 

29?

SHORT COURT HANDBALL
—]ohn A. Friedrich

0 Numerous games and activities have
been devised for use in limited areas.
“Short Court Handball” is just such a
game, for it requires only a six-foot-
square floor space along with a four-
foot-by-six-foot wall area. It can easily
be adapted to almost any room or a
similar space. Another advantageous
feature is the fact that it requires no
expensive equipment. A small rubber
ball (or tennis ball) is all that is need-
ed, unless players wish to modify the
game by using ping-pong paddles and
a ping-pong ball.

The game, although not overly stren-
uous, provides excellent exercise. It is
stimulating and fascinating and does
not require superior skill.

Description

“Short Court Handball” is mcrely a
modified form of single wall handball.
To play the game, two opponents al-
ternate in hitting the ball, using either
of their hands. The object is to hit
the ball within the court area so that
your opponent cannot return it on the
first bounce or on a fly.

Rules

The Game '
1. A game shall consist of fifteen

points.

2. The ball may be struck with
either hand on the first bounce or on
the fly.

3. To be legal, the ball must hit
within court area on the floor and Wall.
(On the line is good.)

4. Players may stand anywhere dur-
ing play, alternating sides as is neces-
sary.

5. A “let”* (or hinder) is called if
the ball hits either player’s body, othcr

than his hands, during play.
6. A “let” (or hinder) is called if

either player unintentionally interfcres
with his opponent. (Intentional inter-
ference is an out.)

The Court
1. The court may be outlined with

" “Let” (or hinder) requires that the point
he played over.

298

chalk, paint or tape. Its wall and floor
surface should bc flat.
2. Court dimensions are as follows:

 

(This court may bc modified if dc-
sired.)

The Playing Process
1. Service:
(a) Choice of servicc is determined
by flipping a coin.
(b) Service may be made from any
place behind the rear bound-
ary. The server’s opponent may

sllots can be equally valuablc.

Thc game of “Short Court Hand-

ball” can be a boon to the recreation,
as well as to the physical education,
program. Its economy of spacc and
equipment, as well as its appeal as an
exciting activity, nlakcs it practical
and enjoyable for all age groups.

POP THE TOP—John Smith

Equipment: One bottle top and tcn-
nis ball or rubber ball.

Playing Space: Two cement pave-
ment squares, four feet by four feet,
or playing space eight feet by four
feet.

Description

Two players constitute a team. The

object of the game is to hit the bottlc

 

 

not cross rear boundary until
ball is touched by server.

(c) Only the server may score.

(d) In serving, the ball should be
bounced once and then struck.

(e) Service must hit above the six-
inch line within wall area and
return to court area.

2. Outs—Loss of Service or Point:

Server scores a point if:

(a) Opponent fails to return ball
on fly or first bounce against
the wall.

(b) Opponent fails to return ball so
that it bounces from wall into
court area. i

(c) Opponent fails to hit ball above
the six-inch line on the wall.

(d) Opponent deliberately obstructs
play.

If the server commits any of the

above faults, he loses his serve.

As previously stated, the object of
the game is to maneuver your oppon-
ent out of position so that you may
score a point. This may best be done
by playing the cor11crs from side to
side, up and back diagonally. Low fast
shots are most effectivc; however, high

JOHN A. FRIEDRICII is with athletic

department of Michigan State College.

top with the ball. One point is scored
by the player who “pops” the top, and

the game is won when one player

 

8ft.-————->

x: PLAYERS

X 0: BOTTLE
CAP

x 4ft. 0

scores a total of six points. Partici-
pants take alternate turns.

For example, the two players are
“A” and “B”. “A” begins the game,
standing outside of his square, and
aims at the bottle top with the ball. If
he succeeds in popping the top, he
scores one point. Whether or not “A”
scores, “B” receives the ball. If “B”
pops the top immediately after “A”
scores a point, “B” does not receive a
point but wipes out thc point which
“A” just succeeded in scoring.

A point only is scorcd whcn “A” or
“B” pop the top and the succeeding
player fails to do so.

If the top moves from the center
when popped by a player, it is returned
to position after each player has had
one throw.

JOIIN SMITH is with the Philadelphia
Department of Public Welfare, Penna.

RECREATION

N

V
J

‘I
J

IIALLO\V

I'AIITIES

 

Illllullllll‘llilllllllllll‘l.

:0: : St :0200

waowmu 0:35 253 m: 03:09 $5 H003 m: 55 0m :20. $55
5 95 5mm 5" 0m 0:050 90: $55 05 00:18.

F0355 @855 as": :5 0255 £00m 009 $50 :5 "0 0 5" 0m
ormmam. ‘25 mm; 35% mm "0 :5 1m? 0m 0 USNIMEQ :5 50:03 05 $5
05 in: 2:03 £5 :25 Fm" mmdowsm. .55 :52 03:55 @355 :0-
E $5 355 $03 0min. mgr S05“ 0 5" 0m 0:35 00m 0 00:35 05
5:01:05? 5:: 0:; 25 m5" 009 :20 803$ 5:5? 2:0 30m" 003.
055 mmmmsmw 505: 015a mom $5 mam: 0—30

$2.00: warm AwmzmoEmHE @009 mom 0 5&5 @3ch

H03me mam: wmm 0H 0:505: 509

50:02.5? $5 2:0? 35 How" :3 Emmmo wmm E59 2er :5 m0-
$59505 mom 0 Exorwm 052. 3 mm 0050: H0 3010—? I :5 ~55:
mocsm 0" :5" 00m 55 x mm_ 435: $5 505mm 850 05 0—059 05
5 00mm.“ ~05 K 0:5 mm 550 Err $5 00m m: rmsm. 0:5 5 2005059:
man 0:" 0m :5 @005.

b: 2353 H03: 0 5&5 050—5. .5500 00mm $5 Umm W03 :93 H0
:33 £735 :5 Hammmmm 35m 05 0—059 035: :5 275:5 E035. $5
50mg 0025 Em 350 00m $5 3325 mocsm r05msm $5 ~50: Umm mm
0.: 0m $5 @035. .25 Fm” :20 amamwsmdm 1353 $502 $5 Umm H0
5007 095m 35 $5 410:5“. mm $5 005 2:0 momma; 7040 $5 Wmm m.”

$5 95— 2:535.

$.00. amamaoni mammmmaoam. 55 00% mag, 0m 95 525 mam $5 mm"-
mum 0m 2030:”: Wanammzos 5589020: 30:035.“: 0:250:05 m:
$5 mmunmawma 525 0% $5055.82.

Emssgm A05. mum—0:55:

mm $5 "0 509 "0 $5 20300“: $555050: $580510:
mow 3:5 00000003? 055338 30:02.50“: Zwquu
0105 5 0508. A55 003300 mmnmzmm mamm‘mmHESm m3 $5
0&030030: 0m 0555001505” mam 005000335235 55.
0330:? 2:5: <3: 5:0 00" @035 0: 40:55:20 mum
Emmormmmésmwmsm m: <05 "020“ 0:0 x 55 2:0" 0:5H
555030: 50023505 :05 ran: mom—0m. 7:39:55 m005.
"50m H52 95 V0001

(Fold Back)

—_——_—___————_—_—_—_—____————————_—_——————_———————_—__—___——_—

O

 

ambawm COOKS/HO m: <05 500553; moa 30:02.5: "Em 53..»

: <0: 0:505; :05 m @009 5055 mom ms? :02 £005 mrmlsm w
in: :5 5m" 0m 5w 30295? x 050.5 mm: m: 508: 0m 0 mm: mm.
35 no 25 $055 "0 055 30:02.50 03:: 05005 555035 "0 330—5
:5 mozogmsm.

55". m: 00% 50mm? x mm 505mme "0 mam: 2:: 0 m5: #055
m0m5m505.

Emu—3:5 :5 $3.? *

H. Em: $5 003% 0” 50m" 955 3555 m: magnom.

N. Oammsmum 50:05:58 "0 05mm" 2er $5 30:? 05008325. @5503.
:00? Hmmammramam 009 053338. 075 50:00:55 05.355 mamaan
mmmmmsamsam "0 ~05 “510359 555a U535 0a maumsm $5 002%.

w. 505 00:05:55 550355 352515 $535735 2er $5 5355
wamga. wing 5055 mom 0: 0034150.

.9. :05 mm 300% @150 mm $5 HOMES mam mumsomm “520:. @50-
Em 0m 0.: 0mg ~05 "0 05 523mm?

Oosmzonmsm 300 102%

m0 Samsomsm 0 Hana H033: mmimm $5 00256055 :30 @3500 cw
mmism 50.0: mammn m 0350. mammmsmm 03500105 "0 30:05.55? @006.
E5 mam Emow 505 SE 525 95 002005“ mam 500: £505 503%
0 05,5 0m =mr¢00_05& 035a 0559 £000 :m W05 m0 :5" $5 Emma.
5mm :05 30% #5 «53:5. H3435 $5 003053 0:9 005 mm 55:;
mm 0053050 mo 90" :5 5mm 30% 535 mm m 3315 20% 0m mmimmsm
$5 @4000 mow 503 @005?

>332: $00 F939.

‘25 S68 0m @058 mam muamsmmuama 0m 05513 05 36050:?
g: $5 0155 323 5 $5 505? :5 $505 53.0% :5 533:8 .5
0:5: mm $5 “0025:0005” ammmmnsm 150005 33 5095520. .555
555505 05 000nmmm00m. mum Encrmomnm «1: 52:: $5 203.: m3 mg.
:55.

202 0mm "0 <05 50:5 0 rmmwmsm £000: 0m Saws:ch m: $5
erwzm 0m @5003305? m1 0a 5x081? m Emnorwm 750m 2005 550m m:
:5: mm 0 325 550—53505.

.. Mummmuhmk 0w 0 Shawn; 0.\ 205 N00 500.550. hamxoaama. 65002350.” 0‘ 250.

330.0: 00% ~03»?

 

III"! . ill

8

‘1
J

I’AIITII

II.-\I.I.0“’EE;. '

.:00::3 0::

00 :0::0: 0: :0:: ::::::0: 0:0: 0:: :0 0::0:0 0:3 3:30 0:: .::0:0

0:0:0 0:00:: 0:: :0:? .00:0: 0:: :: 30:00: 00::000 03: ::0 :3

-:::0: 0:0 ::0: ::030 :0:0: 0: ::::::0: 0 :0::0:0 0: 0:00:: 0:: 0:::

:00“: A.::::::0: 0 :0 ::0:0 :0:: 0::000 0:0 :30: 03300 0:: ::0::

:0:0:m:::0 0:0 0:0 :0 w::::0:0 :0: 000: E .::::::0: 0 :0 ::0:0 0:
b: 0:0:::0: 0:: 0:20 0:00:: 0:: :0:? .:0:0:: :0 h00:0: 0:0:::0:
.0::::::0: ::00:::00 :033m “0:0:n:

253% 923%.: 2::

3:08 :000 a:
:0:00:0: 0: 00:05:0:3: 0: E .::00: ::0:: :: 3:08 :3: 0:: 0: :00:
:0: ::0 .:0:::00: 33:30 ::0:: 0: :00:: m::::0:0: .0:0:: :0:: ::00
0:: :0:: 033—: 03: 0: E 0:00:: :0: :0 :0:: .::0:0 0:: ::003
0:0—:0: :33 0:: .:30: 0: ::30m 0:: 00 :000 0:: .:: :0:: :30:
0:0 ::0 ::0:0 0:: 03030 :23: 0: H .::003 0:: :0 0:0:: ::0 :0:
0:: :0 0:0: :33 0: E .0:0:: ::0:: 0: :30: 0:0: :000 :0 2:08 :0::
0:: 3:033 0:: :4 .::00: :000 :0: h:00:: 0:: :0 ::0:0 :0:—0: 0 000:00
:000:: 0:0 ::003 ::0 :0: 0333 a: .0::0::0:::0: 0:0 0:0:: 00 :0:::0:
0: :_0o:0 2:00: ::03 0:: 0353: ::3 000: ::0—0: 0 0: 03:.
0:0: 0:: 0:0 0:30: :03:
0:: 0:0 00:0:3 “0:00::033: .0::0:0 h00:00:: h0:0: 030:5? “0:8:

0.53.00 ::0 00:00::—

0300030:
-:0:::0 0:00:: 000::03 A: :0::0.::0 0: :00 0:0: :0:00_00 30: 0::.
.:00:: 30323:: :00:: 0: :0::0::0:::0: :0 0000:0300 ::0::0:::: 0::
::0 :0::3 02:0: 03000: ::0 03:00 :0 :0::03: 0 00300 :37:

mm 3::0 me3r044<m

.:0: 0:: :0 ::E: 0:: :0 :0:::00: 0::: 0:00 0:: 0:00: 0:0: w:::00: :0:
:0 00:00_0 000:: 50:. 3:: :03: 0:: 0: 3:30 0:: ::0:: :0:: :33
0:0:m0 :0::: 0::: :35 .::000: ::3 0:00 0:: :0 000: 0:: ::00:0 30::
::0 .0:0::0 8:3 0:: :0 :0::00 0:: :: 0:00 0:: 000—: .0:00 0 ::3: 0:
0::0 ::wm0::0 :0::0 0:: 0>:00 ::0 :0:: :0::00: 0 00 0::0 ::mm0::0 0:0
00D 00:00: 003—0 0: 03:0: 000:3 0:030 0 :0 3:30: 0 :00 h030:0
:0::m0: 0:: :0 a: .:::3 0:: 0: 03:. .:0:0: :0::00::0:00 :003 ::0::
30:3 :00:.33—0 :0 :00 “030:0: 00 0:0:: 0: :00 03:. .:0: :0::3:
:0: :0: ::003 h0:0—::000 30: 0: :00: 0.:0::3 :00%:l:> .:mHm

.::0: :ww0:0 0:: .0000: 30:3: 50:: :0
:00:: :0:: 00 0:00: 0:: :0::0m0 .:::m: 000:: .030 3:3 :0 =0: 0:m::0
0:: :0..— .::0: 0 :::0: ::0 :0:: 0:: w::::0: .:00: 0:: :0 30:0 0::
000—: .:00: 0:: :0 :00: ::0 0030 .:0: 0:: :0 0:00: :0 .:::0:: :0:

(Fold Along Th1: Lme)

0:03 00:0: .3500 0:: ::0 00.03::0V :00 03V 3:03. :0 :00::30 33:30:: a

.00:: ::0 3:3 0:: :00 .w::::0 :::3 ::0 0:0 :0 50:0 0::
0::. :00: 0:: :0 00::0 ::0 :00: 0:: 3300 0: :w003 :0 .0::::0 :0:
30:0 003 .:00: :00: 03: ::0:0 0 ::3: 0: ::0:0 0 :0 :00: 0:: ::00:0
0:50 000:: :0:? 0::0: 0:: :00: 3:: :0:: 00 80:: :0:0::0 ::0
:0:0: 0:0:0 :003 :0 0::::0 :0::.:_0: :00 .::0: 0:: :0 .:I: > :93

.:0: ::0::
0:0:: 0: 0030: 0:: :0 00m:0 0:: :0:0::m 0:00: :00: 0:: :03»: :0:0
:0::000 3:0:030: 0:: w:::0>00 .030: 0:: :0 :00 000:0: 080: 3:3:
0:: ::0 000: 0:: ::00:0 :0 0::0:3 0E0: :0:—0E0 0:: :0:: 00 :00:
0:: ::00:0 :: 0::. .030: 0300: 0 ::3: ::3 03,—. .0w:0 0:: 30::
00:00: 03: :00:0 0:00: :00:: 0: :0 :: 3:30 ::0: 0:3: 03: ::0
0:3 00:00: 0000:: :00:0 :0:0: 0:0:0 :003 :0 ::::0 0 :0U|> :mhm

.00.:0 :0:
0:0: 0:33 :0::0:0-w3 ::3 h:00::003 0 0:00 333: 0B .303:
03:30: :::3 000: 0:: :::0: 3C: 0: :00: 0:: :0:B|>: :0:.m

0.: :30: 00:: 03:0: 3: :_:w00:0:: :0: :: :01: .::0: 0: ::3 :00:
0:: h00::: 0:00: 0:: :0:? .:::0: 00 ::0 :::0 .000: .003llh03 0:::
0: 3330 0:0 000: 0:: :0 0:3: :0 :0:: 0:00 0: .0:00: :33 :0:0>00
3:033: .:00:0:: ::0:.0:0 ::0 0:0 .3 00:03 03:: 3:0:030: ::0: :0
0000:: :93 0:00: ::0: :3 0:: :0 :0::000 000: 0:: :03OIE: :95

.3:0: 0:33 :0 0000:: :0::0: ::0:: 0:0::

::00: :0::0::0:: 0:3: :0330 0:00: :: 0: ::0 00:0 0: ::00:: 0:: :0:

.::00:: .:00:: 0 3:0: 0: 0::: 0 :m :0 ::0:: m:::0::0 .3::00 0:: :30:
:0:0: :0::::0w 0:: :0 0::::0 :0::03: 03: :0::3: .3 0:: 0:: 5:0,:

.:0 :0::3: :00: :0 0:0: :0::0 0: :00 00.:0 0: H .:0:0:

:0::E0w 0:: ::3 =0: 0:: 0: :: 3:00: ::0 :03 0:000 0:: :m :30

:0::3: 0 0:03 .:0:0: :0::E0w :23 :30: A0320: :0: mm: 0:: 0:
0::: 3:00.: .000: :0::m0: ::0: 0 :03 .3:0:030: :0 30': :0:.m

.:0: :.:03 :0: 0:: :0:: 00 w::::0 0:: :0::0w0
:0:: :00 :: :00::0 ::0 3:0:030: :0-:0:0::0m 0:: :0 0:00:00 0:: ::0
E::: 307: .:00: 0:: 03:0: 03:. .m::::0 :::3 30:: :: 0:: ::0 :03
0:: ::00:0 :0 :0:0:030: 0:: 30:9 .3:0:030: :0 00000::03: 03:
:0 3:30 0:: :: 9:033:00: 0 00 :3 00 0:0::0:: 0: 0: :00: 0.:0::3
0:: :0:: 00:: 00:0 0:: :0 3:0:030: :0 :03 3mm: 0 0005': .:::m

003930200 0::.h

3:0: :0::00::0:00 :003 :0 300:0 03 H

3:0: :0::800 0:00: 303::
:30: 03:50:. 3:0: 0:0:0 :00:m
w::::m 3:0:030Z

10.20.03:

008: 0.03.0: 22..

 

Recreation News

Four Children Sentenced

James A. Smith, magistrate and juvenile referee for
Madison, New Jersey, on August 5, “sentenced” four chil-
dren from six to nine years old to a month in summer
camp.

The boys were accused of vandalism. On 'July 29 they
had broken into Madison High School and in a four-hour
riotous period wrecked $3,000 worth of school pr0perty
and equipment.

Declaring that the boys, victims of broken homes, were
in obvious need of “organized outlets for their normal
energies and exuberances,” Mr. Smith scored both parents
and the community for laxity.

Turning to representatives of the town’s public school
system, he chided them for failure to make school more
accessible to small children during the summer months.

To members of the Borough Council who attended the
hearing, Mr. Smith called attention to what he termed the
"inadequacies of play facilities in the borough.”

A magistrate here for ten years, Mr. Smith said that
juvenile problems had become one of his major concerns.
Recalling that the four small boys before him had ex-
plained to police that they “just had a lot of fun” in their
escapade, Mr. Smith said that it was up to the community
and the parents to provide opportunities for children to do
just that in a normal and legal manner.

Mrs. George Barron

Mrs. George Barron, a long-time friend and supporter
of the national recreation movement, died at her home in
Rye, New York, recently. Mrs. Barron had served as a
sponsor of the National Recreation Association since 1924,
and was elected an Honorary Member in 1930. In addition
to being a very generous contributor for thirty years, Mrs.
Barron was an active worker in securing contributions for
the work of the association. The whole recreation move-
ment in America has been enriched by the outstanding serv-
ice which Mrs. Barron performed for that organization.

Industrial Recreation Meeting

Recently an unusual opportunity was afforded members
of the New York Industrial Recreation Directors’ Associa-
tion by the Mutual Life Insurance Company when it agreed
to have its personnel director, Mr. George Wilgus, discuss
“Management’s Viewpoint on Recreational Programs” in
a cracker barrel meeting in Scarsdale, New York.

In answer to questions regarding his Opinion of manage-
ment’s viewpoint generally, be made the following points:

1. Recreation programs help to build a feeling of per-
sonal importance in employees instead of the feeling that
they are just considered tools to get a job done.

2. They tend to do more toward bringing people closer
together than any other type of program.

3. In many instances, owing to amount of time spent
in traveling from the office to home, these programs take
the place of those which others can enjoy in the com-
munity.

4. Programs of this type help prepare peOple for the time
when they retire and no longer have the interest of their
work to occupy them.

5. They help to cross departmental lines making for
pleasanter working conditions and greater cooperation.

6. They contribute to making working conditions more
of the nature of a community.

Mr. Wilgus was adamant in stating that a recreation pro-
gram in industry is not a tool used by management to
sway employees from joining any unions. He stated that,
in his opinion, the presence of or lack of a recreation pro-
gram in industry would not be a factor in employees’
considerations for or against the forming of a union.

As to what management expects of a recreation program,
he felt that recreation in industry is a part of the general

OCTOBER 1951

employee relations program, which is primarily concerned
with the general welfare of employees.

Regarding the recreation program of the Mutual Life
Insurance Company specifically:

It is run by an association comprised entirely of em-
ployees to which any employee may belong and the officers
of which are elected from the employee body. The associa-
tion is administered entirely independent of management.

A budget, derived from money provided by the com-
pany and revenue from vending machines, is given the as-
sociation to underwrite most of the expenses of activities.
Employees pay small monthly dues.

The association was started in 1921 growing out of an
athletic association which had been in existence since
1907.

Activities are proposed by the association through em-
ployee’s suggestions.

With the average age of employees increasing, fewer ath-
letic activities are in progress.

Officers of the association are permitted reasonable time
off the job in connection with their activities.

The association and its activities are eXplained to em-
ployees during the entrance interview, the induction pro-
gram and in the company’s handbook.

Management feels that the results of the program more
than repay the amount of money and time spent.

In Mr. Wilgus’ opinion, the success of a recreation pro-
gram depends upon aiming it toward the greatest number
of peOple without spreading it too thin. The program must
be stimulated by those responsible for personnel work and
its success depends Upon the degree to which management
participates.

301

 

Traffic Line Spreader
An improved sled-type spreader for

its Controlled-Flo-Trach-Line Paint
Striper, making it possible to lay down
lines in fractional widths from two to
eight inches, is announced by the
Universal Marine and Manufacturing
Corporation, 137 Alexander Street,
Yonkers 2, New York.

The machine, particularly adapted
to the lining of auditoriums, corridors,
classrooms, recreation areas, gym-
nasiums and trach lanes, simplifies the
problem of maintenance men. Gravity-
fed and requiring no power unit, it has
no hose to blow out, no jets to clean,
no pressure tank about which to worry,
no brush or felt band to maintain or
replace and no gas engine or com-
pressor to complicate its operation.

The markers are equally effective
in lining outdoor areas and indoor
installations, as well as hard-surfaced
parking lots. The sled-type paint
spreader accommodates striping or
zone paint of standard manufacture.

Beyond the Blue Horizon

For those who are planning a redec-
oration project after the annual fall
housecleaning, the Geo. E. Watson
Company, 417 South Wabash Avenue,
Chicago, 5, Illinois, has produced a
scenic wall paper mural called “The
Roundup.” It brings within the four
walls of a play or recreation room the
wide open spaces of the West, dotted
with cactus and sagebrush, distant
mountains in the background, where
wild horses are corralled and cattle are
roped and branded before your eyes.
All this through the medium of seven
thirty-inch panels (one set)—-—which
cover a wall space of sixteen feet and
sell for $36.50 postpaid. The panels
have been designed so that two differ-
ent scenes may be created, if your wall

302

areas are small, or the first and last
panels may be added to either end to
extend the action completely around a
room. Single panels cost $6.50 each.
The figures are exceptionally well-
drawn, hand printed in two tones of
brown, and you may have your choice
of pastel backgrounds—green, tan,
gray, off-white or yellow. The manu-
facturers suggest that the mural is most

effective if hung above a dado at eye
level.

 

The photograph shows only a part
of the scenery, animals and men in the
roundup.

A Manual on Handgun Use

Designed primarily for the law-en-
forcement officer, this handy little
booklet published by Colt’s Manufac-
turing Company, Hartford, Connecti-
cut, could be useful for distribution to
beginners on the target range. Illus-
trated, it contains elementary safety
rules and the fundamentals of both
target and defense shooting, the latter
adapted from Federal Bureau of Inves-
tigation material.

“Speed 35 Miles”

Teach the youngsters the meaning of
trach safety! A note for the play-
ground corner devoted to small fry
who go around on wheels—tricycles,
toy autos, wagons or even roller skates.
Castle-Craft, 73 B Street, Manchester,
New Hampshire, soon will be produc-
ing sets of realistic “Kiddie Traffic”

signs—parking, spccd, routc, stop,
dcad cnd street—all scaled to tricyclc-
driver size. Thc scts may hc adaptcd
also to a small back yard or section of
sidewalk, and should serve to acquaint
junior with thc symbols he must obcy
on the road when he grows up.
Portable Record Player and
PA System

Weighing only twenty-two pounds,
in a strong, fabricoid-covercd plywood
carrying case, the Newcomb Model
11-16 transcription player will be wel-
comed by teachers and group leaders.

This is one of the more moderately
priced pieces of portable sound equip-
ment manufactured primarily for
schools by the Newcomb Audio Prod-
ucts Company, 6824 Lexington Ave-
nue, Hollywood 38, California. Cata-
logue on request.

In addition to playing all records up
to seventeen and one-quarter inches in
diameter—33%, 45 or 78 rpm—a mi-
crophone jack and mixing volume con-
trol allow it to serve as a public ad-
dress system, with the use of a micro-
phone. The ten~inch loudspeaker, safe-
ly housed behind a metal kick-proof
grill in one section of the case, is mov-
able within a twenty-five foot radius.
A five watt straight AC amplifier as-
sures adequate volume and tone range
for most needs. Dance instructors will
be happy to learn that, owing to a
patented feature of construction, nei-
ther the vibration from dancing feet
nor sudden jars and bumps will cause

the needle to skip.
Model CR-ll hand or desk micro-

phone for use with this and other New-
comb transcription players is equipped
with an on-off switch and is said to be
practically immune to the effects of
high temperatures and humidity.

Practical Switchbox Bracket

To hold a switchbox in wall surfaces
where screws are impractical, the Hilco
Engineering Company, Genoa City,
Wisconsin, sells—for lSc—a pair of
aluminum brackets. With no tools, thc
two~inch angle piece of a brackct is
fitted over the angle edge of the wall
opening—held in place by a prong im-
bedded into the cut edge. With both

brackets in place, the box is inserted
and a triangular lip of each bracket
bent fiat against its inner surface.

These brackets may be re-used.

RECREATION

Magazines

 

AMERICAN PLANNING AND CIVIC AN-
NUAL, edited by Harlean James.
American Planning and Civic Asso-
ciation, Washington, D. C. $3.00;
$2.00 to members.

BRAIDED RUGS FOR FUN AND PROFIT,

Marguerite Ickis. Homecrafts, New
York. $1.00.

EDUCATORS GUIDE TO FREE FILMS,
compiled and edited by Mary Foley

Horkheimer. Educators Progress
Servicc, Randolph, Wisconsin. $6.00.

FOUR MILLION, THE, Report of the
New York State Citizens’ Committee
of One Hundred for Children and
Youth, Albany, New York.

AMERICAN CITY, June 1951
The Summer Theatre——Civic and

Economic Asset.

AMERICAN CITY, July 1951
Is Local Government Getting a
Square Deal?

Otnaha’s Tennis Center, R. B. Mc-
Clintock.

BEACH AND POOL, April 1951
Aquatic Contests Build Attendance,
Harry Weiler.
Dixon Memorial Pool, Edward Vaile.

Factors Affecting Clarification of
Pool Water, Jack G. Sieg.

BEACH AND POOL, May 1951
Suggestions for Swimming Teachers,

HAND BOOK OF SQUARE DANCES, com-
piled and arranged by Ed Bossing.

H. T. Fitzsimons Company, Chicago.
$2.00.

HERE’S HOW TO DO IT, catalogue of
films, Physical Fitness Division, De-
partment of National Health and
Welfare, Ottawa, Canada.

HOW TO PLAN AND STAGE A SUCCESS-
FUL TEEN-AGE DANCE PARTY, Ted

Raden. Junior Dance League Foun-
dation, Hollywood. $1.50.

PLANNING AND CONSTRUCTION OF LOU-
ISIANA SCHOOL BUILDINGS, prepared

by C. E. Holly. State Department
of Education of Louisiana.

PUPPETS AND BIBLE PLAYS, Josie Rob-
bins and Marjory Louise Bracher.
Muhlenberg P r e s s, Philadelphia.
$1.25.

 

Evelyn K. Dillon.

$500,000 Community Project and
Swimming Pool, Charles M.
Graves.

Underwater Lighting for Swimming

T_P0018.P 10 P S ALICE IN WONDERLAND MEETS THE
1PS to 00 “mars on re' eason WHITE RABBIT, retold by Jane Wer-

C , R. E 11 D d1 .
spr:;e 51,11,832, $331le g P0018, ner. Simon and Schuster, New York.

George D. Butler. $.25.

CAMPING MAGAZINE, May 1951

BOYS’ COMPLETE BOOK OF CAMPING,
Let the Camper Choose, Barbara

Stanley PashkO. Greenberg, Publish-

Elden Joy.
Camps Face Defense Problems, Ger- er, New York- 3250'
ald P. Burns. EXECUTIVE ROLE IN YMCA ADMINIS-

Practical Steps for Polio Prevention,

TRATION, THE, edited by Gren 0.
Elizabeth B. Spear.

Make Your Craft Program An All glarieL 5§SSOCIat10n Press: New
Camp Program, Eleanor B. Tins- or ° 35 ° 0- .

ley. . O _ GOING LIGHT WITH BACKPACK OR
Along the Nature Tralls Wllham BURRO, edited by David R. Brower.

Hillcourt. . .
Our Responsibility In Civil Defense, The Slerra Cllfb’ 83” Franmsco-

Colonel William H. Warwick. 3200.

CAMPING MAGAZINE, June 1951 GOLF TECIINIQUES OF THE BAUER SIS-
Camping—An Important Technique TERS, Dave Bauer. Prentice-Hall,

in “Resource ' Use” Education? Incorporated, New York. $2.95.

W'll P. d .
1 San“ erg GOOD HEALTH FOR YOU AND YOUR

Camp Dramatics, Judy Booth.
Help for Your Camp Store, Howard FAMILY, edited by E. Patricia Hag-
man. A. S. Barnes and Company,

P. Galloway.
New York. $3.75.

A Successful Program for Older
GRAB A PENCIL, Harold H. Hart. Hart

Campers, Robert Glass.
TIIE CRIPPLED CHILD, June 1951
Used Toys in the Treament of Cer- PUbliShing company, New York-
ebral Palsied Children, Zita Na- $1.50.
than?” GRANDPA BUNNY, told by Jane Werner.

Happiness House, Florence 1‘" Simon and Schuster, New York.
Schenck.

Gardening, A Project That’s Play 325.
for These Children, GROUP PROCESS IN PHYSICAL EDUCA-

EDUCATION DIGEST, May 1951 TION, edited by Hilda Clute Kozman.

A Realistic Approach tO Education Harper and Brothers, New York.
for Recreation, John T. Hutchin- $4.50.

SOD.

NATIONAL PARENT-TEACHER, May 1951
Summertime Is Camping Time, Vir-
ginia Musselman.

OCTOBER 1951

HENRIETTA, THE FAITHFUL HEN, Kath-

leen Hale. Coward-McCann, Incor-
porated, New York. $2.00.

Books Received

 

HISTORY OF THE YMCA IN NORTH

AMERICA, C. Howard Hopkins. As-

sociation Press, New York. $5.00.
HOW TO PLAY BIG LEAGUE BASEBALL,

edited by Malcolm Child. Harcourt,

Brace and Company, New York.
$2.00.

IF I WERE IN YOUR GOLF SHOES,
Johnny Farrell. Henry Holt 8: Com-
pany, New York. $2.00.

KITTEN’S SURPRISE, THE, Nina. Simon
and Schuster, New York. $.25.

LEARNING TO SWIM IN 12 EASY STEPS,
Adolph Kiefer, Milton A. Gabriel-
sen, Bramwell W. Gabrielsen. Pren-
tice-Hall, Incorporated, New York.
$3.00.

LITTLE GOLDEN HOLIDAY BOOK, THE,
Marion Conger. Simon and Schus-
ter, New York. $.25.

THE LITTLE GOLDEN PAPER DOLLS,
Hilda Miloche and Wilma Kane. Si-

mon and Schuster, New York. $.25.
NATIONAL PARKS, THE: WHAT THEY

MEAN TO YOU AND ME, Freeman Til-
den. Alfred A. Knopf, New York.

$5.00.

100 HANDY HINTS ON HOW TO BREAK
100, Mike Weiss. Prentice-Hall, In-
corporated, New York. $3.00.

ORLANDO’S HOME LIFE, Kathleen Hale.

Coward-McCann, Incorporated, New

York. $1.00.
PARTY GAME BOOK, TIIE, Margaret E.

Mulac and Marian S. Holmes. Har-
per and Brothers, New York. $3.00.

303

 

Clubs for the Golden Age

The Ohio Citizens’ Council for Health
and Welfare, Columbus, Ohio. $1.00.

THIS STUDY OF SIXTY-SEVEN CLUBS
for the Older adult in Ohio contains
much
value to anyone planning to start recre-
ation activities for this group or who
wishes to extend or improve existing
club services. It covers all phases Of
the question, including demand, par-
ticipation, age range, facilities, leader-
ship, finance, program, membership
participation and the type Of Older peo-
ple interested in club activities.

information and comment Of

Lift Every Voice

Board Of Education Of The Methodist
Church, Nashville, Tennessee. $.25
each; 20 for $4.50; 50 for $10.00;
100 for $18.00.

THIS NEW, SMALL and handy song

book, to use indoors or out, con-
tains a collection Of hymns, spirituals,
fun and folk songs that have delighted
people around the world for many
years. The songs and music score are
followed by a page of suggestions for
song leading. Order from the Service
Department, Box 871, Nashville, Ten-
nessee.

Counseling Adoleseents
Shirley A. Hamrin, Ph.D., and Blanche

B. Paulson. Science Research Asso-
ciates, Chicago, Illinois. $3.50.

HERE IS A PRACTICAL how-to-do-it

book which will help the teacher or
counselor evaluate leading counseling
theories and draw on the most work-
able features of each. To illustrate key
points it describes practices that have
proved effective in high schools and
colleges. Actual interviews are cited
plentifully and case summaries given.
Dr. Hamrin is professor Of education

304

new Publications

Covering the Leisure-time Field

at Northwestern University, and Miss
Paulson is coordinator in the Division
Of Guidance and Counscling in the Chi-
cago public schools.

How to Turn Ideas into Pietures

H. E. Kleinschmidt, M. D. National
Publicity Council for Health and

Welfare Services, Incorporated, New

York. $1.00.

THE NATIONAL PUBLICITY COUNCIL

has come out with another of their
good how-tO-dO-it materials. This
pamphlet, complete with amusing dia-
grams, was especially written for work-
ers in social welfare, health, recreation
and so on who publish materials Of
their own, and explains how to illus-
trate their ideas with pictures and to
express them in ways other than with
words. Excellent resource material for
the planning of annual reports, public-
ity material, printed programs and
posters. Other titles on the council’s
list are: “Annual Reports—How to
Plan and Write Them,” “How to Make
a Speech and Enjoy It,” “Pamphlets
that Pull,” “Planning Your Exhibit,”
“The Public Relations Committee,”

“Radio—How, When and Why to Use
It,” and “Working with Newspapers.”

Creative Hands
Doris Cox and Barbara Warren. John

Wiley and Sons, Inc., New York.

$6.50. (Revised edition.) '
GET OUT YOUR XMAS LIST, or start

hinting! Here’s a beautiful three
hundred eighty-page book that will de-
light any friend who loves tO make
things, but isn’t an expert. And ask
Santa for a copy for yourself!

The book tells how to make all sorts
of arts and crafts projects that are
good—good in design and usefulness.
The numerous sketches are heavy black
and white, easy to see and use. The
photograph of the finished articles will
make your mouth water!

Creative Hands proves that amateurs

can producc real art in simple, practi-
cal articles. Everything in thc book is
beautiful and in good taste.’ Gold-star
it for yourself and friends! Definitely
worth the moneyl—VIRGINIA MUSSEL-
MAN, Correspondence and Consultation
Bureau, National Recreation Associa-
tlon.

Photography For Teen-Agers

Lucile Robertson Marshall. Prentice-
Hall, Inc., 70 Fifth Avenue, New
York. $2.95.

WRITTEN FOR TEEN-AGERS in a sim-

ple, interesting style, this book
gives complete, detailed information on
all phases Of photography—the camera
and how it works, film, printing and all
the rest. It also has good chapters on
what makes a good picture, color pho-
tography, portrait, Hash and indoor
photography.

One Of the best chapters Of the book
is called “The Pay-OH.” It is full Of
ideas on how photography can bc used
not only as a wonderful hobby, but as
a money-making hobby as well.

While addressed to teen-agers, lead-
ers Of photography clubs or groups
could use this book as a manual. It
could form the basis Of very good
programs.

How to Plan and Stage a Sueeessful
Teen-Age Dance Party
Ted Raden. Junior Dance Leaguc
Foundation, Box 2651, Hollywood
28, California. $1.50.
THIS BOOK will be a real first aid for
harasscd Mom; and there is no rea-
son why largcr groups in ceIItcrs away
from homc should not find the plans
useful. Enough games and dances arc
dcscribed so a choice may he made. No
doubt, some party-givers will choose to
skip thc kissing and paddling. Details
are given Of props needed, music,
prizes and refreshments—the whole in
bright, rcadable style that makes party-
giving sound easy and inviting.

RECREATION I

12W CHRISTMAS LIST FOR l95l

Fun for Christmas

CIIRISTMAS BOOK, THE—A beautiful booklet full
of information about Christmas customs and
lcgends around the world, parties, carols,
dccorations, gifts and other Christmas ideas
and suggestions ........................................ ..$.50

CHRISTMAS PAGEANT, A (MP 378)—A pageant

for small children with music, dances, drills

and a playlet ............................................ ..$.15
CIIRISTMAS PARTY FUN (MP 409)—Games and
mixers ........................................................ ..$.10

CHRISTMAS SUGGESTIONS FOR CHILDREN (MB
798)—Games, puzzles, favors and gifts  $.10

COMMUNITY CHRISTMAS PARTY, A (MP 295)—
Community-wide party suggestions ....... .. $.15

MIXERS FOR CHRISTMAS DANCES AND PARTIES
(MB 1425) .............................................. ..$.10

SANTA CLAUS VISITS MARS (P ll)—A festival
using folk dances of other nations ........... ..$.10

Creating for Christmas

CHRISTMAS CRAFTS (P 13)—How to make an
aluminum Christmas tree; how to stencil . $.15

CHRISTMAS NOVELTIES FOR EVERYONE—How to
make ornaments, decorations and the like $.15

JOYOUS NOEL (MB 1825)—Christmas decora-
tions made from inexpensive clay, tin cans

and the like .............................................. ..$.10

SUGGESTIONS FOR NOVEL CHRISTMAS CARDS
(MP 290)—With excellent illustrations to ex-
cite your imagination ............................. .. $.05

Available from the National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10, N.Y.

(To Be Continued in November)

TRIMMING THE TREE FOR SANTA (MB 1955)—
Suggestions for making cornucopias, angels,
stars and other holiday novelties ........ ..$.10

YOU CAN MAKE YOUR CHRISTMAS CARDS (MB
607)——Fourteen ways to success ............ .. $.10

Christmas Is Serious

CIIRISTMAS CUSTOMS AND LEGENDS AROUND THE
WORLD (MP 255)——Told in pantomime form,

will serve as a basic pattern for similar pro-

grams ....................................................... .. $.10

FESTIVAL OF LIGHT—For Hanukkah and Christ-

mas. Narrator, carols, pantomime for a com-
mun1ty program ...................................... .. $.10

HINTS FOR CHRISTMAS IN CHURCH OR SCHOOL
(MB 1899)—Stage settings, lights, proccs-

sionals, program suggestions .................. ..$.10

JOY TO THE WORLD (MB 1585)—A pageant for
church, based on the story according to St.

Luke .......................................................... ..$.10 J
TREE-LIGHTING SERVICE (MP 417)—A beautiful .
and impressive service which takes but a 1
half hour to produce ................................ ..$.15 |
RECREATION Magazine Articles '1'
NOVEMBER 1950—A Bewhiskered Visitor; Thc 1'
Mayor’s Christmas Party ......................... .. $.35

DECEMBER 1950—Christmas in a Mental Hos-

pital; Dedication of a Christmas Tree; Your
Christmas Party ........................................ ..$.35

Recent Bibliographies

CHRISTMAS PLAYS FOR CHILDREN (MP 404)—
An up-to-date annotated list for children from
primary to high school age .................. ..$.10

PLAY FOR CHRISTMAS, A (MP 405)—A new list

of secular and religious plays for various age

groups, including adults ......................... .. $.10

 

_. .
.4." v
'-:_2. '
VI
,.
\i
.
.

 ‘Sar M 

 

Sergeant Charles Turner, of Boston, Massachu-
setts—Medal of Honor, Korea. On September 1, 1950, near Yongsan, Korea,
Sergeant Turner took over an exposed turret machine gun on a tank. Despite
fifty direct hits on the tank, he stayed by his gun and destroyed seven enemy
machine gun nests before he was killed.

You and your family are more secure today because of what Charles Turner did
for you.

Sergeant Turner died to keep America free. Won’t you see that Amcrica stays
the land of peace and promise for which he gave his life? Defending the things
he fought for is your job, too.

One important defense job you can do right now is to buy United States
Defense* Bonds and buy them regularly. For it’s your Defense Bonds that help keep
America strong within. And out of America’s inner strength can come power that
guarantees security—for your country, for your family, for you.

 

Remember when you’re buying bonds the Payroll Savings Plan where you
for defense, you’re also building a work, or the Bond-A-Month Plan
personal cashsavings. Remember, too, where you bank. For your country’s
if you don’t save regularly, you gen- security, and your own, buy United
erally don’t save at all. So sign up in States Defense Bonds!

9958' Saving? Bonds are Defense Boot/J - Bay l/zellz retry/dry!

The U. S. Government does not pay for this advertisement. It is donated by this publication in
cooperation with the Advertising Council and the Magazine Publishers of America as a public service.

 

