 

Here are the guiding principles, practices
and policies for recreation in America

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

Top authorities in every field of recreation
labor, military, fraternal, commercial, in-
rrirational, governmental . . . have pooled their
vast experience and know-how to bring you
this complete and valuable book

on the guiding principle: of recreation

in America. Never before has there

been anything like it — for the

first time. a full set of principle: covering
every aspect of total community

\ recreation — established and printed
\. in one volume. Complete from his-
torical background and its place in
American life to what recre-

ation offers the individual, the

family, the group and the

community — including

principles, practices

and policies for

..__ the guidance of all

agencies
interested in
recreation.

This new book, the
result of another National
_ .v’ Conference held by the

Atlllctle Insritute, offers you valuable

assisrancc in your recreational work.
Prue-d at $1.25 each. Order your copy today
from the Athletic Institute, 209 S. State St.,
Chicago 4, Illinois

'0' II.‘
r-"tt. ll '
oi lllfo’

man u min: a «on non: ocean-tartan orvorm .10 Till] novanerlurm
m I ‘e “- or AIHlIIICs lieu-Mien one mute“. neurones

 

"H far-i“

I g '

_
#17:?“- ‘

H -

"V

OCTOBER 1952 249

 

at leading gym: from coast-£04045!
t/ar choice it Porter

Unusual basketball backstop installations
are usual for Porter. For years, Porter en-
gineers have successfully solved equip-
ment problems for the nation’s leading
schools, universities, clubs and communi-
ties. This outstanding engineering skill
coupled with nearly a century of quality
manufacruring experience explains why
Porter is depended upon. Whether your
problem involves basketball backstops or
apparatus for gymnastics, call on Porter.

Faced with the problem of installing backstops that
would be permanent and rigid in a gymnasium with a
ceiling beam height of 39 feet, Kent State University
at Kent, Ohio, turned to Porter.

FILE INGHHEIIHG COUNSEL

You an entrust your planning end
installation problems to Parter's en-
gineerin stett end be confident at
settsteman. Years at experience back
every Porter recommendation. Write

today.

These two Porter 2173 Forward-Fold "Halstaway" in-
stallatians were the answer. When not In use the back-
staps may be hoisted to a harixantal position, permit-
ting overhead room for other activities in the gymnasium.

JWnlUfy of Cu .
P 0 T R 2/ “to; I  itnufocw
THE J. E. R E CORPORATION Ottawa, lllinois

Manufacturers of Gymnasium, Playground and Swimming Pool Equipment

Ctttttit Hiltlz I“ It. Eitltm tn, thitm II. ttttt: Slit-mu 1-1252

 

 
   
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 

HEN it“ Bill“: ll W. 42“ SL, Ntlt Tori ll. Phi-III: llnltttt 34342

ltncnm'rm:

 

OCTOBER, 1952

Editor in Chief, JOSEPH Pnsxosacssr
Editor, DOROTHY Donswson
BUSINESS hlANAGER, Ross J AY Senwsnrz

assocmre amrons
Recreation Administration, Gsonca BUTLER

Program Activities, VIRGINIA Mussamlsn
W

Vol. XLVI Price 35 Cents No. 5

_-__——___—_——————"

On the Cover

Pumpkins will soon, in the hands of small boys,
change into grinning jack-o-Ianterns for the eve of
Allhallows. Photo courtesy of Massie, Missouri Re-
sources Division.

Next Month

In November, recreation leaders will be looking
ahead to Christmas. This issue, therefore. will carry
new ideas for the forthcoming festivities—candle
making, a new party and tricks and stunts. “Christ-
mas Programs Through the Years” will present quick
views of community programs since the 1920’s. The
lifting of the ban on swimming pool construction,
which is imminent in 1953, is responsible for the
article, “Construction of Swimming Pools.” Many
other ideas for program leaders and administrators
will lill its pages.

Photo Credits

Page 258, 259, Lcthbridge Herald—Lloyd Knight;
262, 263, 264, Standard Oil Company of New Jersey;
267, Virginia Department of Conservation and De-
velopmcnt; 271 (right), Egan Photo Service, Bos-
ton, (left) Achton Studio, Boston; 280, (top) SCAP
ClE Information Center, Yokohoma, (left, top)
Swedish Travel Information Bureau, Incorporated,
(center) French Government Tourist Oliice, (bot-
tom) New York Star—Morris Gordon; 28], (top)
Foto-Schulda-h—Iuller, Austria, (right, top) British
Information Services, (center) Official Netherlands
Photo, (bottom) Bob Mizunto, Board of Public
Parks and Recreation, Honolulu; Page 280, 281,
leentcr) Ewing Galloway, New York; 293, Helen
Cummings, Oak Park, Illinois; 306, Oliicial United
States Marine Corps Photo; 307, United Service
Organizations, Incorporated.

 

RECREATION is published monthly except July
and August by the National Recreation Association,
a service organization supported by voluntary cen-
trihutions, at 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10,
New York; is on file in public libraries and is
indexed in the Readers' Guide. Suhscriptions $3.00
a year. Canadian agency, G. B. Welch Company,
l.td., 1149 King Street West, Toronto 1, Ontario;
Canadian subscription rate $3.85. Re-entered as
second-class matter April 25, 1950, at the Post
Office in New York, New York, under act of
March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at Special
rate of postage rovided for in section 1103, Act
of October 3, 1 l7, authorized May 1, 1924.

Advertising and Production Office: Jones Press,
[with and Fifth South, Minneapolis 15, Minnesota.

Space Representatives: ll. Thayer Heaton, 141
East 44 Street, New York 17, New York; Mark
Minahan. 168 North Michigan Avenue, Chicago,
Illinois; Keith H. Evans, 593 Market Street, Suite
304, San Francisco 5, California.

. Copyright, 1952, by the
National Recreation Association, Incorporated

Printed in the U.S.A. 3%:
°Trade mark registered in the U. S. Patent Office.

 

OCTOBER 1952

THE MAGAZINE

  
  

OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

CONTENTS

General Features
An International Recreation Service (Editorial)

Joseph Prendergast .................................................. .. 254
Vote Campaign .................................................................. .. 260
Never Too Early to Learn .................................................. .. 262
Judge Austin E. Grifliths .................................................. .. 264
It’s A Natural, Mary Virginia Vaughn .............................. .. 272
Toward International Understanding  ............ .. 280
Recreation Through Religious Organizations .................. .. 282
Hospital Bed Recreation, Barney B. Maticka .................... .. 284
Josephine Blaekstoek Retires ........................................... .. 293

' Administration

Recreation Capital of Canada, Philip H. Godsell ............. .. 258
Recreation and the Virginia Economy ............................ .. 266
Action in Arlington, Ellen Anderson ................................ .. 277
Fourteen Acres of Fun, Selwyn Oreutt ............................ .. 287
The Importance of Good Public Relations,

R. E. Brown, Jr. .......................................................... .. 288

Program

A Halloween Report .......................................................... .. 261
Radio for Amateurs, Charles G. Stone .............................. .. 265
Reading is Recreation, Robert Kresge .............................. .. 269
Operettas Are the Answer, Jane Dale ................................ .. 270
Recreation on Rails

Model Train Races, Francis Donnon  274

Model Railroading, James F. Herdic, Jr. ...................... .. 275

Aids to Model Railroading ............................................ .. 276
Understanding Each Other, Rosalee Greenfield .............. .. 279
Teen Activities .................................................................. .. 285
“A Candle in the Window—A Carol at the Door,”

W. J. Calhoun ................................................................ .. 290
How To Do It! Plan An Arts and Crafts Room,

Frank A. Staples ............................................................ .. 292
Tom-a-I-Iawk Club for Teens, John A. Lippold ................ .. 297
Whistling While You Play, Richard Montgomery .......... .. 301
New Body-Contact Game Offers Fewer Hazards,'

George W. Haniford ...................................................... .. 303
Servieelnen in the Community Program .......................... .. 306

Regular Features
Things You Should Know .................................................. .. 253
Letters ............................................................................... .. 256
Editorially Speaking .......................................................... .. 257

Recipes for Fun—Activities for an International Program 295
Personnel—Southern Regional Recreation Study,

W. C. Sutherland ............................................................ .. 299
Listening and Viewing ...................................................... .. 302
On the Campus ................................................................. .. 304
A Reporter’s Notebook ...................................................... .. 305
Recreation Market News .................................................... .. 308
Books Received, Pamphlets .............................................. .. 309
Magazines ......................................................................... .. 310
New Publications .............................................................. .. 311
Recreation Leadership Courses ................. ..lnside Back Cover

251

 

 

 

252

NA'l'l ONA L RECREATION

ASSOCIATION

A Service Organitotion Supported by Voluntary Contributions
JOSEPH PRENDERGAST. Executive Director

 

 

OFFICERS

0710 T. Mauttr..................Chttttnan o! the Bond
Pam. Hoota. jt...............
Mar. Oootrr L. Mntt...............S¢cond Viee-Pteridertt
Smart M. Lat. .Third \‘ice-Pterident and Secretary n! the Bond
Aoaurr hl. Matttt................
Connor 1'. Kurt...“.............-.Tttuurtr Emttitlu

 P""Mlc“tno.n'O'OnnnnOOnOOIOOI'OOI.

BOARD OF DIRECTORS

o n n o o a a  Vict'r."id'°'

............Treattrrer

 

.Sectetary

F. V. H. Annat........................N’ev Yorh. N. Y. tht. Jorm D. jtrttsosr . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  ..Beilport..\'. Y.
9.6.!“IIHII..¢a.at...ec...o¢o¢o.ea......30ll°..Slut. SEO‘H M.LII.........o...........o.....NtvYorh.N Y.
Mat Ionrat Vac-or Bttrr.. .. ...... .... “Vathingtott. D. C. 0110 T. Manta?” . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... .l‘hiltdelphit. l’t.
Mta.Attrret G.Ctuurt..................jtehtonvrlle.Flt. Catt F.3lntratrr...... . . . . . . . .  . . . . . .....Auxuatt.hle
Tatum ll.Durr.......................Nev Yorh.h‘.Y Mn.OutsL.Llrttr.....................chYorh.N.Y.
Hattvl'.Dtvrtort.......................NevYorh.N.Y. 9am. Moon.Jt.........................jerreyCity.N.j.
Canaan Dourretttv.........................Chrca;o.tll. Jortrrr Pttrrottctrr.....................ch Yorh.N.Y.
Maura“. Gtuacma.......................Orntha.Nehr. Mtt. SIGHUND SIIIH........ . . . . . . . . ..San Frtncitco. Cilil.
RoattrGttttn............. . . . . . .........Baltintoee..\td. Gumanvotrrt.........................Xoroton.C0no.
Hat. XMHAI Hattovtt...  ...........Frtchbut;. Mart. Mn. Vrurtu \‘trr Atnr. . .. ....  ...Philtdelphit. Pa.
Mtt.Cttaltlt V. llKlOl.... . . . . ........\ltchilan City. Ind. J.C.Vnttrr.............................Yonhert. N.Y.

Ftroetrca M. Vaatttcu

 

Enoctttiva Directnr't Oica
Grout E. Drtttt Ttroutr E. Rttrtt
llrtna Hattrtos Atrrrt't “turner

Atrtto ll. Yttrorr

Cormpondancn and Contraltatinn
Servica
Stone: A. .N'rttm
Gttrtuot Boatrrato Eorra httttutt

Program Servica
\‘rtcrvrt hiuartt an r:

Recreation Mag-r. tine
Doaorrrv Donttorov

Special Pnhlicatinnt
Ron jar Setrrrattt Murat. hIcCArlrr

 

Nave England Dittrict
Tarot: I. lltmtvoarrr. .Boarorr. Matt
(Prmnt tddrert. . .Nev Yorh)

Middle Atlantic District
Jorrrt ". l‘avrt. . . . . .Eatt Orange. .' J.
Inuttn S. Trtroart. .Nev anh. N. Y

Great Lahet Dittrict
Joust 1 Count. . . . . . . . .Toledo. Ohio

Rmttr l. Ila-urn. . . . . . .hltdtaon. 'rt.

AHilinte Membership

AIHtta ore-herrhip in the Nttiontl
leerettlon AIMlIdII it open to tll non-
proit private and pnhlie orpn'ttttinnt
when inaction it wholly or primarily the
provitioo or pro-notion oi recreation rm.
it“ or which lulnda recrettion at an in-
poettat pttt n! their total pmttnt and
when cooperation In the vorh oi the [no--
eittino would. to the opinion oi the ana-
ehtrnn'r loud ol Directort. (nether the
tndt nl the national recreation tantrum

IIEA DQUA RTERS STA Fl"

Pennnnel Service
‘°IU.AIO C. Strrrrrttatto
Man Gttttutt Anna 3. letIH

Ilenea rch Department
Gtoaaa D. Bu‘rut
Dam j. thorr

W'trrh with Volunteer!
E. Brtvtrca Strata-rt
Malt chtt MAIGAIII’ Dasaronrr

Field Departs-ant

Crttlttt E. Ruo
C. E. Buan jatttt A. Mantras
Ioarar R. Gaunt “turn 6. lion

DISTRICT REPRESENTATIVES

Southern Dittrict

hltrt Matron Ptrttt . . . . .Alettndtia. Vt.
Iatrrr Van Ftrrr. . . . . .Clettotter. Fla.

Mid went Dittrict

Attrtt-t Tooo. . . . . . . .litnttt City. Mo.

Active Associate )1 embershlp

Attrve atrocitte nrertrhttthip in the
Nitrontl Irerettion Atrocittion la opeo tn
tll Individnalt who art actively ranged
nn t loll-tine or put-tine employed hatir
or tt volnnteert In a nnoprov‘t private or
pnhlic recrtttion organitttion tnd whore
cooperation in the vorh of the atrociation
vovld. in the opinion of the atrocittion'r
loud oi Directora. lnrthet the eodr o! the

attiontl recreation movement.

oooonn-noooooaoool"' YOIh. 5.- \.n

Sertrre to Stun
Vturtu M. Hat

Areet and faerlrtrrr—Piannrng and Snrrrp

lt ttrt Lin-cu

Katherine 1". Beth" Memorial
Secretary [or Women and Grrit
llrun M. Dtt'xcrr

Rrrreetmn Leadrrrbt, Training Conrrrt

Rurr Errttaa
Mttetro SCANIOH
Gtaca Tuart

Southwest Dittrict

“atom VAN Atroau . . . . . .Dtllat. Tet.

Pacihc Nort hvratt Dittric t

Trtiato ll. 'irruttttr. . . . .Setttie. thh

l’tcihc Sou thwett Dir t rict

LYNN S. Romu‘r. . . . .Lot Angela. Calrf

 

Contributors

The contiooation of the norh o! the
Nttiontl Recrettion Atrocittion (tom yen
to you it made porrthe by the tplendid
coopertt'too o! revettl hondred volnnteet
tpontort throughout the conotty. tnd the
genetotrr conttrhotiont o! thonrtrrdt o! to -

lore of thit movemeot to bring hetlt .
tppinert tnd ctettive living to the hoyt
Ind girlt tod the moo tnd women rt!
Amerrct. l! on nonld like to ioin in the

roppott o! t it roovenrent. on any trod
yonr contrihotion direct to the trroeittion.

 

Htaour Larrrtor-

Ax.“ Ltrmcttos
Fatsa A. Suntt

The National Recreation Armiatlon it a nation-
wide. nonprofit. nonpolitieal and nonreerarian eivle
organization. ertablirhed in I906 and rupported by
voluntary eontrilrutiom. and dedicated to the ten-
lee oi all tecreatlon executivet. leaders and open.

ciea. public and private. to the end that every child
In America rhall have a place to play in rafety and
that every person in America. young and old, shall
have an op rtunity for the hert and most ratirly-

0

in; ure 0! H expanding leirure time.

For further information regarding the crroeiation't ten-ices and membership, please mite to the
Executive Director. fictional Recreotiorr Artoeietiorr. 3l$ Fourth Arenue. New York [0. New York.

W

RECREATION

 

’ A SCHOLARSHIP FOR GRADUATE
STUDY in landscape architecture is be-
ing offered at Harvard University for
the academic year 1953-1954, carry-
ing a stipend of six hundred dollars—'—
the equivalent of tuition for one year.
The curriculum embraces the design of
area of land for human use and enjoy-
nicnt. Further information will he fur-
nished upon request, up to November
1, 1952. Address The Chairman, De-
partment of Landscape Architecture,
Robinson Hall, Harvard University,
Cambridge 38, Massachusets.

’ THERE ARE NOW MORE THAN SEV-
ENTY SCHOOL DISTRICTS in Michigan
providing a week or more of school
camping as a part of the regular cur-
riculum, according to Dr. Julian W.
Smith in a talk delivered to the 1952
American Camping Association Con-
vention. He stated that California re-
ports fifteen school districts involved.
Others, including Indiana, Texas, Illi-
nois, New York, North Carolina, F lor-
ida and Washington, report that
schools have already initiated pro-
grams. Official publications, procccd-
ings of conventions, and the pro-
nouncemcnts by associations of school
administrators and other professional
groups indicate acceptance of school
camping as an integral and desirable
part of educational experience.

’ ACTING UPON A REQUEST OF THE
COMMUNITY SERVICES BRANCHES of
the US. Air Force and the Department
of the Army, the National Recreation
Association early last summer started a
pioneering program to mobilize all
community recreation resources within
a wide radius of ten military installa-
tions in central Texas. Clarence E.
Brewer, representing the association.
worked with the Cotmnunity Services
of the U. S.A. F. and Fourth Army
Command on a joint plan of action re-
sulting in the services of volunteer
mmnniltees to act as sponsors to en-
I-ourage the participation of military

OCTOBER 1952

7M @066 550%?! Km .

 

personnel in community activities. A
directory was compiled, for the in-
stallations, of all recreation areas, facil-
tics, places of interest to visit, the re-
sources and services of the state park
departments, Texas state departments,
universities, colleges, commercial rec-
reation, and of resource persons hav-
ing a specialized hobby and who were
willing to cOOperate with personel offi-
cers on post in promoting hobby activ-
ities for military personnel.

Major-General John McCormick, Di-
rector of Military Personnel for the
U.S.A.F., writes regarding this project:
“I have been receiving regular reports
on the very valuable services the
United States Air Force has been re-
ceiving from the National Recreation
Association. It is evident that the per-
sistent and skillful efforts of your rep-
resentatives, closely coordinated with
the plans and programs of our air base
commanders, have resulted in the dis-
covery and availahility of many COlll-
munity resources hitherto unused. The
most recent report on the Wolters Air
Force Base Community Service Proj-
cct, organized by Mr. C. E. Brewer, is
an excellent example of the worthwhile
defense activities of your organiza-
tion.”

* THE SEVENTH ANNUAL INDUSTRIAL
RECREATION CONFERENCE will be held
at Purdue University October 19 to 21,
1952. A highlight of the conference
will be the banquet address on Monday
evening by Dr. Harold D. Meyer, Pro-
fcssor of Sociology, University of
North Carolina; consultant, North
Carolina Recreation Commission; and
former president of the American Rec-
reation Society. He will speak on “Rec-
reation—-Its Potentials in Contempo-
rary Society.”

’ RECENT FIGURES re-emphasize the
fact that each year more children are
killed playing in the streets than
through polio. According to the 1951
figures of the National Foundation for

lnfantilc Paralysis, there were 28,668
cases of polio reported in the United
States, but during the same year, the
number of children killed or injured

while playing in the streets, totalled
54,170 .

F A NEW RECREATION PROGRAM SERv-
ICE and a national advisory committee
on recreation programs and activities
is being inaugurated by the National
Recreation “Association. Virginia Mus-
selman, now head of the association’s
correspondence and consultation serv-
ice, will be in charge of this new de-
partment and will serve as the commit-
tee°s secretary. George A. Nesbitt, who
has been district representative in New
York state, will take over direction of
the correspondence and consultation
service.

* A POLICY STATEMENT on the danger
of over-deveIOpment and commerciali-
zation of state parks is being prepared
through the cooperation of the Na-
tional Conference of State Parks, Amer-
ican Institute of Park Executives and
the National Recreation Association.

' TWO NEW RECREATION SOCIETIES,“
oflicially organized last spring, are:

The Tennessee Recreation Society
with Al Strozdas, recreation director
of Oak Ridge, serving as president.
Plans called for pamphlets and leaflets,
stating the society’s constitution, by-
laws and dues, to be distributed to all
recreation leaders in the state.

The Metr0politan New York Recre-
ation Society, an affiliate of the Amer-
ican Recreation Society. It was organ-
izcd in April and is now meeting regu-
larly. It welcomes into membership all
those who are professionally engaged
in the recreation field, no matter what
kind of agency or what its major
focus.

Special Services

There is still an urgent need for
women for special service club work
in Japan. College graduates are pre-
ferred.

Civilian women also are needed
for club work in other overseas
areas. Women, ages twenty-four or
twenty-five, are in demand, too, for
club positions at posts and bases in
all parts of the United States. Ill-
formation concerning all Special
service opportunities may be ob-
tained from the Recreation Person-
nel Service, National Recreation As-
sociation, 315 Fourth Avenue, New

York If), New York.

 

253

254

 

OR MANY YEARS the National Recreation Asso-

ciation has been interested in and has pro-

vided consultative and advisory services to
agencies and individuals throughout the world con-
cerned with recreation. The Board of Directors of
the National Recreation Association has now au-
thorized the formal establislnnent of an Interna-
tional Recreation Service. as a channel through
which the many services of the association may be
made more readily available to them.

In 1911. Mr. and Mrs. C. .‘rl. Goethe. nndcr tile
auspices of the association, made a trip around the
world and were instrumental in the establislnuent
of playgrounds and other recreation facilities in
several countries. Throughout the years many ree-
reation friends from other countries have attended
the association's annual recreation congresses. In
1932, the association sponsored the lirst interna-
tional Recreation Congress. which was held in Los
Angeles. California, in connection with the Olympic
Cannes of that year. Since 19°15. it has been serving
hundreds of individuals and agencies concerned
with recreation in many nations. During the last
few years many American recreation leaders have.
been serving abroad. This summer Mr. and Mrs.
T. E. Rivers represented the association at the
Sixth Japanese Recreation Congress and made eon-

An International

tact with recreation leaders and other outstanding
persons interested in recreation in the several
countries they visited en route to Japan.

The provision: of recreation service and help.
however, has not been a one-way affair. The rec-
rcational and cultural life of America has been
tremendoust enriched through the years by con-
tributions from all the peoples of the world, and
there is still much we might learn from other
nations. The national recreation movement of the
United States itself rests upon the pioneer recrea.
tion work done in many countries, particularly
England. Germany and Switzerland: and it was
Dr. ll. l.. Jacks of Oxford University, England.
who carried the inspiring story of recreation to
thousands of persons throughout the United States
during the years 1931 and 1932.

An increasing recognition. since the beginning
of the twentieth century. has been given to recrea-
tion in all parts of the world as an important and
necessary part of life contributing to education.
character development. happiness. health. safety
aml citizenship. In several countries. as well as in
the United States. special attention has been given
to recreation. sometimes by the national. provincial.
state or county governments. sometimes by munici-
palities, often by civic and social organizations. A
number of countries have established organizations
of national scope devoted to recreation. similar to
the National Recreation Association.

in all cases, the term “recreation” is used to
cover the general field of play for children. recrea-
tion for youth. and the recreational use of leisure
time for adults and the aged. It means the provi-
siou of such facilities and activities as parks. play-
grounds, ncighhorhood recreation buildings. games.
sports, athletics. music. dramatics. arts and crafts.
camping. hiking aml like activities when organized
aml developed for general participation by all the

chncnlos

Recreation Service

pe0ple in rural as well as in urban communities. It
does not include commercial recreation activities.

Since the end of World War 11, interest in rec-
reation has been manifest to a greater degree than
ever before in many foreign countries. Letters from
individuals and organizations seeking advice, in-
formation and literature on recreation have been
reaching the National Recreation Association in
steadily increasing numbers. A desire to profit by
the experience of the United States in developing a
community recreation movement is quite evident in
many countries.

As the occupation authorities of both Germany
and Japan are turning back the control of those
countries to their own governments, and both pub-
lie and private agencies of those countries are left
without ollicial help and guidance, it becomes im-
perative that such organizations as the National
Recreation Association provide private and volun-
tary services in the fields of their respective in-
tercsts.

Furthermore, so long as the peace of the world
and the defense of the world’s democracies require
the United States and other nations to maintain
large numbers of their citizens abroad, in military
and other capacities, it is of the utmost importance
that some way be found to bring together the
public and private recrcation agencies of America
and its allies in a program to open up, to the repre-
sentatives of other nations, the hearts, the homes
and the normal and wholesome recreation oppor-
tunities of the countries in which they are serving.

The formal establishment of an International
Recreation Service by the National Recreation As-
sociation will provide a central service agency to
make available both information and skillful guid-
ance for recreation leaders, agencies and associa-
tions in all parts of the world, just as the National
Recreation Association for over forty-six years has

OCTOBER 1952

Editorial

 

served in the United States as the central service
agency for local, state and national agencies, pub-
lic and private, concerned with public recreation.
The International Recreation Service will also
participate in the work of the Committee on In-
ternational Social Welfare of the National Social
Welfare Assembly and in cooperation with that
committee will serve in a consultative and advisory
capacity to the several United States and United
Nations bodies active on the international welfare
scene—such as the Federal Security Agency in rela-
tion to the Federal Interdepartmental Committee on
International Social Welfare, the United States Na-
tional Commission for UNESCO, the International
Labor Organization, the Conference Group of Uni-
ted States National Organizations on the UN, the
Social Commission of the United Nations, and the
United Nations Economic and Social Council. It
will assist the State Department of the United States

with reference to the welfare phases of the United.

States foreign policy, particularly with such ques-
tions as the welfare attache program, Point IV and
technical assistance, and United States Government
representation at international conferences.

Faced with the impelling need of hettering inter-
national relations if we are to win the peace, now
is the strategic time to provide world-wide services
in the field of recreation.

It is our hope that we who know what recreation
can do, both for the individual and for the com-
munity, will find a way, through the establishment
of the association’s International Recreation Serv-
ice, to bring together the recreation forces of the
world to promote a richer, more abundant leisure

life for all.

MW

255

 

A Rich Contribution

Sirs:

ln regard to the guest editorial in
your April 1952 issue. Mrs. llobby has
packaged as neatly, eonvincingly and
colorfully what community recreation
programs can do for service women as
any gifted saleswoman with enlight-
ened understanding of the product
could. The material is presented so
crisply and tidily am] with such irrc-
futablc ap al that I am guessing there
will he a liig demand for copies. lt is
certainly a rich contrilmtion in general
and particularly in relation to defenx
services such as those in which the
NllA and the Community Services
Branch, Special Services Division, Of-
fice of the Adjutant General. Depart-
ment of the Army, along with others,
are en aged.

G. tt Romney, Chic], Community

Services Branch, Department of the

Army.

Playground Improvements
Sirs:

lltzcmzs'rmx magazine is a big aid
to us in conducting our various pro-
grams. It contains something [or every-
body on our staff and all of us read it
thoroughly each month.

This year we have conducted a Play-
ground Improvement l’roject on each
of our fifteen playgrounds, having re-
ceived this idea from your April
“951) issue, and we achieved the fol-
lowing results:

l. l’adding the side edges ofthe seat
and all nuts and bolts on the baby
swing seats with foam rubber and env-

256

cring with leatherette (lleering Oaks
Playground). This safety device does
not prevent bumps on heads but it does
eliminate serious cuts.

2. Painting of shuflleboard courts
on the long sides of a tennis court
plus construction of all shuflleboard
equipment (Wills Playground).

3. A beautiful cork-faced bulletin
hoard with multicolored letters (Lin-
coln Park).

4. A nine hole miniature golf course
(I’resumpscott Park).

5. Volleyball court (I’. J. Dccring).

6. Fireplaces of rectangular paving
stones (Bayside. Gulliver Field. Pay-
son Park and others).

7. l’lanting of oak trees
Island).

8. Permanent horseshoe boxes (Doug-
las Street).

9. Baseball field, complete with
backstop and snow fence for outfield
(Gulliver).

lO. Craft table and board games
I McIntire) .

ll. Fire laces and council rings at
a “woodsy ' playground (The Pines).

Our local liotary Club is co-sponsor-
ing the project and will give play-
ground equipment as prizes to the best
projects. I am a firm believer in the
fact that youngsters, arents, friends
and play leaders shou d help improve
their areas. This gives a neighborhood
the feeling of responsibility for their
playground.

Thanks to you and RECREATION
magazine for a wonderful idea.

Jack Crain. .lunior. Director 0/ Ree-

rration, Portland, Maine.

( l’caks

Concern About Salaries
Sirs:

l read with avid interest your arti-
ele on salaries in the September issue
—as I imagine did everyone in the
recreation profession. The results lived
up to my expectations but not up to
my hOpcs. To me the thing that point-
ed up the sad story that your figures
told was the article under “Personnel.1
bewailing the decrease in the number
of colleges offering recreation degrees
and in the number of students enrolled
in such courses, and the relatively
poorer quality of such students.

You seem very concerned with this
problem—and rightly so, l believe——
nrging a nation-wide systematic re-
cruiting program for the profession. It
seems to me that there is a direct cor-
relation between the results of your
salary survey aml the apparent lack of
enthusiasm on the part of top'notch
young people to enter the profession.
Very few outstanding high school stu-
dents in our society are going to set
their sights on a career in a profession
where the top salary for the man with
the heavy responsibility of managing a
large department in a midwestern nie-
tr0polis is only 311.000—a junior ex-
ecutive's salary in many of our busi-
ness concerns. A median salary of less
than $100 per week—which can be
matched in any airplane factory or
steel mill—is not going to attract very
many to spend four or more years in
college and considerable money pre-
paring for a career in this field.

I have no personal complaint at the
present time concerning salary—being
in the first year on a new job and re-
ceiving the figure I asked for. In fact
I have received a raise in salary each
year that l have been working. How-
ever, the rise in the cost of living since
I left college in 1918 has matched my
progress, am] the economic prospects
for the future revealed by your survey
of salaries seem dim.

lt seems to me that the best way to
lick the recruiting problem—and inci-
dentally the greatest service that the
National llccrcation Association am]
the American Recreation Society could
perform for the profession—would be
to devote a much stronger eflort to
raise salaries in the profession now.
The success of labor unions has proven
the strength of organized groups. I am
not advocating a union for recreation
superintendents or other professional
workers, but l am advocating an in-
ereased effort by the already estab-
lished or anizations mentioned above
on behal of the individnal executive
and stall member on a nation-Wide
basis.

Jona ll. Passer. Superintendent.
Brattleboro. Vermont. Recreation
Department.

ltccnm'nos

5W Seaman?

United Nations Playground

The establishment of the United Na-
tions playground, last year, called forth

the following comment, from column-

ist H. 1. Phillips, in the New York

press:

The Kids and the Diplomats

0K, envoys, delegates and officials,
custodians of a world’s fate, Spokes-
men for the biggies of this planet!
This is one of your more understanda-
blc decisions . . . a step in keeping
with the ways of the Prince of Peace.
Now the coldness of steel skyscraper
and the forbidding aloofness of diplo-
mats give way to a heart-warming hu-
man touch.

The scurrilous debate is softened
by laughter; the acrid mood is touched
by song; the gravest decision on the
t0pmost floor . . . is made to seem
less important momentarily than the
questions down in the street below,
“Who slugged ‘Shorty’ Murphy?”
“What little girl pushed Jennie out of
the swing?” Pause, oh statesmen of
the earth! Get an eyeful of children
at play! Listen to their laughter!

The kids can help you. An inter-
national issue will seem suddenly less
vital when, responding to a childish
treble, you catch a flash of your child-
hood mcmories. Your tempers will he
soothed by the sight of kids at play.
Spokesmen for empires may glimpse
the top secret key to peace in the
hearts and voices of cavorting young-
sters. And perhaps amid the shouts
from the United Nations playground
there will be heard in the council halls
high up in the steel skyscraper the
timeless Voice whispering, “Suffer ye
little children to come unto me.”—

From The Sun Dial, by H. 1. Phillips,

by special permission of the Associ-
ated Newspapers and the New York
World Telegram and Sun.

“I Hate Reading!”

As our thoughts turn to the sub-
ject of reading and we take another
look at its place in the recreation pro-
gram, in view of planning for Book
WeckI—Novembcr 16 to 22———recrea-
tion leaders will be interested in an
article of the above titlc, hy Helen J.

 

i?§«~ “Reading is lhuxeadonf’ page 269.

OCTOBER 1952

Greenblat, a seventh-grade teacher in
the public schools of Newark, New
Jersey.2

“The tie-up between reading difficul-
ties and juvenile delinquency evinces
itself with startling regularity,” writes
Miss Greenblat. “It is true that not
all retarded readers seem to suffer
from emotional disturbances or come
to grips with the law. But on the other
hand, the reading ability of nearly all
delinquents is considerably helow their
mental capacity. . . . Authorities in the
field of reading are accepting more
and more the factor of emotional mal-
adjustment as a prime cause of read-
ing difliculty. . . .

“Less attention has been paid, how-
ever, to the reverse side of the prob-
lem . . . to what extent does read-
ing retardation cause and/or aggra-
vate feelings of inadequacy in the
child? Practically at the beginning of
his school career he is grouped ac-
cording to his reading performance.
Then and there the stigma becomes
attached. . . . It takes very little time
for the children to discover which are
the slower learners and to emphasize
the fact by such endearing epithets as
‘Dope’ or ‘Lamebrain’ (both of which
I’ve heard used on the playground by
little first-graders). . . . As the child
grows older, reading becomes a pre-
requisite for an increasing number of
suhjects in the curriculum. . . . Thus
our slow reader is being set farther
and farther away from his fellows. . . .

“I have found that such children re-
veal acute awareness of their reading
inadequacy and are bitterly resentful.
. . . All this animosity gives rise to
the oft-heard cry, ‘I hate reading!’ No
amount of stereotyped ‘remedial read-
ing’ assistance will help. Treatment
eonsists rather of attempting to lessen
the pent-up aggression and hostility
and of building up self-confidence. . . .
I try to stimulate interest in reading
by dealing with such topics as the
child himself suggests. This is based
on the rapport between us.

“Once interest has been achieved
and self-confidence has been fostered,
more formal work may be cautiously
introduced.”

2Appearing in June 1952 issue of Under-
standing The Child, published by the Na-
lional Associalion for Mental Health. 1790
Broadway, New York.

     
     
  

The Importance of Play

I much admire the custom in many
Jewish families of elders and children
playing card games, dominoes, and
checkers after the evening meal to-
gether. It takes love and self-disci-
pline for a worried man to settle down
to games with children. Parents cn-
courage their children to make music,
to paint, to work in photography and
to play outdoor games. They know
the art of family life. It’s so much
easier to give the kids money and
send them to the movies or let them
take what wisdom they can get from
television!

Recreational direction has become
a paid profession because so many
parents have been too selfish to give
themselves in teaching children how
to play.———From Head Over Heels, (2
Guide for the Better Self, by Maurice

S. Sheehy. Published by Farrar, Straus
and Young.

COSTUMES TO RENT

for

CONVENTIONS o PARADES o PAGEANTS
MINSTRBLS o PLAYS o OPERAS, ETC.

VAN HORN & SON, PHllA. 7, PA.

Costumers - 3151852 0 Sand for Folder.

    

GYM EQUIPMENT

0 Gymnaslum Equlpment
o Telescoplc Gym Seats

0 Basketball Scoreboards

0 Basketball Backstops

0 Steel Lockers, Lockerobes
and Grade-Robes

70cm g” M
FRED MEDART PRODUCTS,INc.

3566 DE KMB ST. ST. lOUIS 18, M0.

For 78 Years
" The Standard Of Quality

 

A remarkable example of recreation facilities in a community of 23,500 persons.

Recreation Capital

J. N. Murdock, Recreation Director.

Juvenile delinquency holds no
terrors for Lethbridge, self-styled
i “llecreation Capital of Canada.”
Not that the youngsters of this thriving metr0polis of the
irrigation area of southern Alberta are better, or worse.
than those of other places. They are just as full of brim-
stone and ginger as any other normal youngsters. but here,
through coordinated efforts of service clubs and city fa-
thers, centered in the $325,000 Civic Sports Centre. the
$240,000 skating and curling rink. two heated outdoor
swinnning pools, a ninety-acre artificial lake, four hall
parks, nine playgrounds, eight outdoor skating rinks and
endless other facilities, the youth of the city are given a
healthful opportunity to work off their high spirits and
super abundant energy in favorable and appealing atmos-
phere. Four of these playgrounds have youth councils

which. complete with mayors. govern their individual

 

activities. These councils function under direction of the
children's parents and a playgronnd supervisor.

Starting from scratch, these sports and recreational fea-
tures have mounted from a mere nothing to an edifice of
colossal stature in the past four years. Sparkcd by the
work of service clubs-~the $60,000 Lions swimming pool,
and the $40,000 Kinsmen Playground—it was the gener-
ous, far-sighted gift of $100,000 donated by the late Fritz
Sick, pioneer industrialist of the city, that really got things

under way.

The Civic Sports Centre

l'roniptly, Mayor I). ll. l'ilton, K.C.. took steps to pro-
cnre from the Dominion government, for a civic center, the
entire lloyal Canadian Mounted Police barracks square in
the center of the city. Paid for ont of [his donation and
largely from reserves built up during the war years. the
major units have been constructed during the past four
years without running the city into debt. Stronghold for
the entire sports and recreation program is the Civic
Sports Centre bnilding. wherein are now coordinated not
only youth activities but all the art, Innsie, cultural and

 

l’lltLtl' ll. CODsELL, Fellow of the Royal Geographical So-
ciety, is the author 0/ sen-ml Arctic travel books.

253

sports activities of the city. This was ollieially opened by
Emil G. Sick in October, 19-19, in memory of his father.

Directly off the lobby and executive ollices, Number
One Gymnasium and auditorium contains a basketball and
volleyball floor, four badminton and two sliqucboard
courts; it is equipped with a public address system and
bleachcr accommodation for eight hundred. Twelve storage
rooms are built under the bleachers. providing almost un-
limited spaec for the equipment of all groups using the
building. Number Two Gym, constructed as an immense
stage, looks down on Number One. It is equipped with re-
movable draw and drape curtains and other stage trap-
pings, and is marked out for a basketball floor and two
badminton courts. The boxing gym is equipped with de-
mountable rings and other training facilities. while the
heated outdoor swimming pool, 106 feet by 55 feet, forms
part of the main building.

Apart from these features, the Civic Sports Centre and
Fritz Sick Memorial also offers a large number of meet-
ing or club rooms. It’s not unusual to lind all these in use
at the same time—a game of basketball going on in the
large gymnasium. members of the Old Timers’ Dance Club
practicing reels and square dances in the other, the boxing
elub condueting regnlar classes in the basement gym while
the sketch club, camera club and other cultural groups are
holding meetings in the various rooms. Many of them con-
grcgatc later in the large dining hall, which is serviced by
a fully modern and up-to-date kitchen.

Latest addition to the Civic Sports Centre is the $240,000
lc.c Centre. an enormous structure housing the largest
covered-ice surfaCe. in the Dominion, which was opened
last November. It contains a skating and hockey rink 180
feet by 80 feet, tcn curling sheets, seating accommodation
for eight hundred, dressing rooms and showers for girls
and boys, a glassed-in spectators' room and lobby, and a
refreshment concession. Other development work in pros-
peet embraces a quarter-mile cinder track, a turfed foot-
ball pitch and a new fastball diamond.

Guided by the Recreation Commission

lmthbridge's city-wide program is devel0ped to include
everyone, from the youngster to the oldster, with all na-

RECREATon

of Canada

Philip H. Codsell

 

“Recrcation Weck" opened with a spirited western hoe-down
attended by fifteen hundred old-timers from southern Alberta.

tionalities and groups participating. Organized recreation
in all its aspects—physical, social and cultural—is essen-
tially a matter of “having fun.” But it is more than that,
for it is a tremendous value in rleveIOping character. a
spirit of cooperation, and in building good citizens.

The over-all guiding force is the recreation commission,
a citizens’ committee appointed by the city council. Chosen
to head this eight-member committec was George B. Mc-
Killop, M. B. 13., who has done more for the youth of Leth-
bridgc in thc last three dccades than any other onc man——
a fact recognized in 1948 when he was made a Member
of the Order of the British Empire. On his recent retire-
ment he was succeeded by D. L. “Pat” Hamilton. Under
Mr. McKillop’s direction the following Sports Centre poli-
cy was establishcd:

1. “That its program shall bc built up to thc point
where the Civic Sports Centre shall become the center of
all community activities, and where practically all groups
can make use of the building.

2. “That the rates must not be cxcessive so as to defeat
the purpose for which the building was planned.

3. “That the building bc Open to all groups, or indi-
viduals, so long as their activity conforms to the rulcs gov-
erning the purpose, use and maintenance of the building.”

Mcanwhile, the commission adepted a policy for the
civic sports and recreation program, whereby “all sports

OCTOBER 1952

 

Rehearsabforoonc of musical pageants and reviews which played
to enthusiastic audiences and were a part of the gala week.

are afliliated with, and work in cooperation in the foster-
ing of amateur activity throughout the city.”

Appointed athletic director on July 1, 1949, by the rec-
reation committee, .1. N. “Bus” Murdoch, a native son and
all-round athlete, supervises the civic-sponsored program
of sports and recreation, assisted by fifteen regular em-
ployees. Deeply interested in all aspects of youth training
and sports promotion, “Bus” was no sooner in the saddle
than he envisaged the inclusion of all branches of recrea-
tion, sports, arts and cultural activities under the same
roof. Within six months the Civic Sports Centre had be-
come the stronghold for one hundred twenty-five clubs, in-
cluding tbc allied arts council which is made up of the cam-
era club, writers9 club, the sketch club, the ballet club, the
Junior Chamber of Commerce, the Junior United Nations
Association, the Canadian Handicraft Guild, the little
theatre group, the M.I.A. 0pcra-drama group, the Play-
goers’ Drama Club, and other organizations. The effective-
ness of this sports and recreation program is demonstrated
by the fact that of this community of 23,500 souls, the
1951 sport and recreation club memberships totaled 11,-
384, practically fifty per cent of the p0pulation!

A Recreation \Veck to Be Remembered

The recreation program is all-inclusive, and for the sec-
ond successive season the recreation department spread its
wings still further and exhibited every phase of its color-
ful activities in a week-long production. This, known as
“Recrcation Week,” got off to a flying start on Saturday,
May 5, with a spirited western hoc-down, attended by
fifteen mayors from adjacent towns and a senator from
Montana. To the lilting strains of Les Handley’s Happy
Homesteaders, fifteen hundred old-timers of southern Al-
berta and veterans of the old Fort Benton Trail danced
with poke-bonneted partners in a style reminiscent of the
old bullock-train days of pioncering. Monday, the author,
assisted by befeathered chiefs and warriors of the Black-
foot nation, staged a colorful pageant dramatizing an old-
time buffalo hunt, the expulsion of whiskey traders by the

259

26056415095 

Seaweed

Community Recreation Studies
and long Range Plans

0 Analysis of the community, its present recreation services and
resources. and its needs.

0 Recommendations for more effective use of present recrea-

.-

tion services and resources and the develOpment of plans.

Planning Recreation Areas and Facilities

0 Preparation of general plan for each recreation area and
facility with attractive drowlngs for exhibition and reproduction.
An accompanying written report when necessary.

Cansultatian Services

0 Consultation and advisory services to recreation agencies on
surveys, administration and program.

0 Reviewing of existing or proposed plans for recreation areas.
facilities and services.

Sand for free leaflet

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
3T5 Fourth Avenue New York TO, N.Y.

 

Northwest Mounted Police from Fort Whoop-l'p. and the
signing of Treaty Nnmher Sev en at Blackfoot Crossing by
Chief Crowfoot. the "statesman in paint and blanket.” 0n
'I'nesday. \\'ednesday and Thursday. musieal pageants and
revues displayed. to surprised and enthusiastic audiences.
the wealth of outstanding talent in the district. There were
many performers from the diverse national groups— -hoth
Oriental aml l‘luropeanr-sliving in the Lethhridge area.

One thousand children dressed as elephants. giraffes.
horses. lions. wildmen, aerohats and clowns. presented the
“Playground Circus" on Friday night to a house full to
overflowing. Next morning the same youngsters staged a
“eircus parade." Headed hy a homemade calliOpe. five- to
ten-year-old acrohats. clowns. roughriders and cowgirls
with swirling lariats took the city by storm. as they pa-
raded and cavortcd to the rousing music of a teen-age
hand. On Saturday night. May 12. the gala week ended
with a mammoth and colorful Mardi gras. It was a week
of unexampled joy for the youngsters, who took part in all
the productions—a week of record attendance which indi-
cated that most of the city had turned out.

In this tangihle way Lethhridge. home of the Maple
Leafs. world champion hockey players, is demonstrating
that the money invested in recreational facilities is paying
good dividends—keeping the youth of the city occupied
and interested in healthful pursuits which have no age
harriers. I’arents and children share common interests.

 

 
 

THIS BIG ILLUSTRATED

LEATHEBCRAPT

CATALOG AND GUIDE

LARSON LEATHERCRAFT
FOR CRAFTS CLASSES

Complete Stock .

Leethercrell Is our only business. end our stock Is the
lerxest end most complete In America. Thet Is why you
cen elweys depend upon Immediete end complete ship-
ment of orders sent to as. Whether your requirements
ere for beginners’ ldts needle; no tools or experience, for
ve young bo s end girls. or tooling leelhers. so plies
e tools or oder. more edvenced students or hohg'y'lsts.
be sure to check the LARSON LI-ZATIIERCRAF'I‘ CATA-
LOG tint. \\ rile tad-y for your FIIEE co y at our big Il-
lustreted Cetelo; end Guide to letest Lest ermfl proiects.

J. C. LARSON COMPANY

The foremost Name in leothercroft

Prompt Shipment

I20 5. Tripp Ave., Dept. 1607, Chltolo 24, III.

.I. C. LARSON (0., Dept. I607
.20 S. Trlpp Ave... Chicago 24. III.

l’leese send me e FREE copy at your letest
lllostreted Cetelog end Guide to Leethercreft.

 

Nailme
ADDIIESS ..
CITY- -

2m

  
    
 
  
  
     
   
  
  
 
 

Vote Campalgn

A vote catnpaign has been launched by the American
lleritage Formulation and more than one hundred other or-
ganizations. working through local hranehes. to stimulate
registration and voting in this important year. A pro-
gram of awards is offered by the foundation to commu-
nities, organizations aml eonnuittecs achieving the great-
est percentage incrcasc over the voting record in their
areas in the. last presidential election.

Ilecreation leaders can take advantage of this oppor-
tunity for community and national service. by making
an effort to help increase not only the numher of voters.
but the numher of informed voters.

This ean he done hy stimulating your discussion groups
to devote a session or two to “voting education," to non-
partisan discussion of the issues at stake in the eoming
elections. of how to vote intelligently. or of the func-
tions of the various oliiecs of our gov erluneut for whom
new people will lie elected. and soon. Or the recreation cen-
ter can introdnee a special series of eeuter-spuusored dis-
cussion group programs. providing the local Iihrary is not
doing the saute thing. A cooperative venture with the lio
hrary. along these lines. would he eseelleut. In any case.
the library can he most helpful. with hooks. pamphlets
displays to he set up. and some will lie ahle to provide
slides. film strips. motion pictures.

lititztt EATon

Problems and recommendations grow-

ing out of last year’s experience.

/4 24m- 2m?!

6 HILDREN at most of the city’s ele-
mentary schools got things off to
a gala start in Burbank, California,
last year, by wearing Halloween cos-
tumes to school. Afternoon parties,
parades and carnivals were the order
of the day. There were home parties,

    

‘-
r
'

church and club parties. rl'teventy-two
local organizations and service clubs
assisted with the conduct of playground
and park parties, and twenty-six firms
aided with donations, making a total
of forty-eight participating groups.
Members of the Burbank fire depart-
ment, auxiliary police and crossing
guards assisted with the supervision at
the playgrounds. All were volunteer
workers. They were willing and cool)-
crative and aided considerably in the
smooth operation of the parties. The
park department rated a special bow
for its cooperation in setting up booths.
tables, benches, platforms, lighting and
other equipment as needed. for the
assistance rendered by the members
of its staff during the course of the
parties, and for its prompt and ellieient
clean-up the following day.

The Burbank Unified School District
minteographed and distributed bulle-
tins, listing the location of parties and

OCTOBER 1932

scheduled activities, to all the children
in the elementary schools and the first
two grades of junior high school. The
cost of the paper was paid by the co-
ordinating council from funds donated
by the Burbank Insurance Agents’ As-
sociation.

Estimated attendance at seven city
play centers was 4,125, including the
three hundred adults who had a party
of their own.

Every effort was made to take care
of teen-agers at evening parties in two
of the high schools and at an afternoon
club party. In addition, the latter part
of the evening was reserved for them
at six city play centers, and discjockey
dances were held at two parks, from
eight-thirty to ten p.m. However, it
was noticed that several groups of
boys and girls seemed to be wander-
ing around aimlessly and, when ques-
tioned, they expressed a desire for
more parties planned eSpecially for
their own age group.

An almost complete absence of van-
dalistn and malicious mischief marked
the 1951 celebration. The police de-
partment received a total of only
twelve calls during the course of the
entire evening. None of these were of
nature. Almost the entire
community had a hand in the success
of the program. lt is estimated that

a serious

between sixty and ninety per cent of
all the porch lights in the city were
left lighted during the early hours of
the evening of October thirty-first.

Some difficulty was experienced in
obtaining qualified part-time workers
to be hired for one week to assist in
the planning and directing of the ac-
tivities.

Random Recommendations from
Party Staffs

1. That summer personnel be sur-
veyed as to their desire for Halloween
work before the close of the summer
season, preferably before August fif-
teenth, and that they be instructed to
inform the department of any change
in their status prior to October first.

2. That there be more parties espe-
cially planned for junior and senior
high school groups.

3. That there be more men from
the service clubs to help with the
adult party and park parties.

4. That service clubs be given more
Opportunity to plan and help set up
park programs.

5. That groups of young adults be
included in the organization and plan-
ning of the adult party so that it
will attract more participants in the
twenty-one to forty age bracket.

6. That children not be allowed to
attend the adult party.

7. That the Spook House be elimi-
nated from the younger children's par-
ties because of its possible psycho-
logical effect upon them; that it be re-
placed by a magician, fortune telling
and trick games; that there be some
carnival booths especially designed for
small children.

8. That every youngster in costume
receive a small prize rather than a few
receiving big prizes for special cate-
gories. It was felt that the established
categories hinder rather than help in
the judging of the costume parade.

From Halloween Report, Park and Recrea-
tion Department, Burbank. California.

261

 

LEARNING POLICEME."S SIGNALS is part of game drama-
lizing safely rules-walk or drive safely, obey signs, signals.

'l‘m: omvntt oi the blue convertible

did not see the trailie light. ller
P1505 intent upon the road. she rolled
right on past the red signal. just miss.
ing several pedestrians. ll} the time
she stopped. the policeman was alread}
coming across the street toward her. a
hunk of tiekets in his hand.

The blue eonvertihle was a to} model
and the street intersection a painted
one. marked out in )Cllow. on the
playground just lrehind Roosevelt l’uln-
lie Sellool in New lloehelle. New York.

The. driver was seven gtea rs oldr—~the
policeman even younger- --and none of
the pedestrians was more than eight.

These children and their elassmates
w «some twenty in alln-were playing a
game. liut it was a game with a pur-
pose and the) were playing it with all
seriousness.

It was a husy seene. When the lights
ehanged. pedestrians moved out onto
the crosswalks as drivers on hieyeles
and qnadriepeles and in model ears
waited for the signal to go forward.

'Ileprinled from The Lamp. Standard Oil
l'ompany. Vet-r Jersey. March 1932.

262

This was a novel experiment in
junior trailie training. its ohjeet—to
find out if it is praetieal to start teach-
ing groungsters oi the early grades the
attitudes and skills lteecssar} to make
them good drivers and good pedes-
trians.

The driver of the blue ear got her
tieket and. next morning in the dam:-
room, appeared in “traflie eourt."

Miss t'ixon. the teaeher, was pre-
siding magistrate. She picked up from
her desk the first of several tiekets.
With just the trace of a smile. she said.

“lluth aml llillv. will you please
come forward?"

With the children standing soherly
heiore her. she continued.

“llilly, please tell me wh_v gmu gm e
lluth this tieket.” And liilly did. while
the class listened attentively.

“Now. llnth." said Miss Nisan. “did
vou pass a light?"

“Yes. I didmlmt Billy waited until
I was right there heime he tnrned the
signal red. lle‘s done it heiore. too!"

'\ hand wat ed vigorous]; in the
hack of the room and another child

f‘

stood up.

A pioneer experiment teaches
traffic safcty to small children.“

NEVER
T00 EARLY
TO LEARN

 

WHITE LINE heeded by drivers round-
ing curve, obeying the rule-slow down.

“lt's happened to me, too, Miss
.u'ixon,and l almost got a tieket.Some-
times the policemen turn the lights too
fast and sometimes too slow."

“Do 301] think that is what hap-
pened to liutll?u Miss Xixmt asked.

Sheepishl). llilly admitted that ma}-
he he had waited too long before tnrn-
ing the signal. Miss Nixon tnrned to
the elass.

“You have heard hoth sides of the

ltacnmrms

case. How many of you think Ruth is
guilty?” Only two hands rosc. “How
many think she is not guilty?” A for-
est of hands shot up.

Ruth smiled and started for her seat
but Miss Nixon called her back, and
spoke both to her and to the class.

“Let’s not forget,” she said, “that
very often real traffic signals do change
just as we are driving up to them or
just as we step off the curb. So we
ought to watch them very carefully all
the time.”

The class agreed.

The next case involved Jack Rey-
nolds. He had received a ticket for
straddling the white line while waiting
to make a left turn. This time the ver-
dict was unanimous. The entire class
found Jack guilty because, as Officer
Raymond put it, “If you cross the
white line you aren’t playing fair
’cause the rules say you can’t cross the
white line ever.”

The idea for the experiment came to
Ralph Graeter, highway safety con-
sultant, a couple of years ago while he
was studying a report on traffic trends

  
 
 
 
 
 

A CAREFUL DRIVER
signals to the ear fol—
lowing him as he comes
to a full stOp at the
crosswalk. A pedestrian,
also, is properly alert.

OCTOBER 1952

which showed that within eighteen
years the number of vehicles on the
nation’s highways would very likely
be doubled. ln even less time, by 1965,
the statistics indicated, there would be
some 107,000,000 licensed drivers in
this country—-—or more drivers than
there were people just thirty years ago.
The study also forecast a sixty percent
increase in highway fatalities by 1965.

Graeter found these figures start—
ling. He began to speculate about what
might be done to prepare today’s
young people for such a four-wheeled
life. He knew about the high school
driver training courses which are be-
ing adopted more and more widely
throughout the country; but he won-
dered if it wasn’t both possible and
desirable to begin conditioning chil-
dren at a much earlier age.

He realized that young children
could not be expected to drive automo-
bilcs. But it occurred to him that per-
haps they could begin to acquire the
attitudes—courtesy, alertness, respect
for others, patience—which are far
more important to highway safety, it

AT A BUSY CORNER
young officer has every-
thing under control. She
holds up the drivers in
the foreground for the
ear making a left turn.

     

is now generally agreed, than skill in
handling motor vehicles.

He spent three months deveIOping
his plan. Then he took it to Dr. Orlo
K. Jenney, principal of the Roosevelt
Public School in New Rochelle——a
progressive safety-conscious communi-
ty that was neither too urban nor too
rural. His prospectus contained the
layout of a driving course which could
be painted on any school yard, and
models of inexpensive, easy-to-make
signals and highway signs. One of the
plan’s major points was that any school
could set it up with a minimum of cost
and effort. it called for using any vehi-
cles that the community might have at
hand—tricycles, bicycles, puslnnobiles.

Dr. Jenney agreed enthusiastically
to let the school participate in the ex-
periment, and volunteered to enlist the
help of others.

Lieutenant Brueckner of the New
Rochelle Police detailed a highway
marking crew and machine to paint
street outlines on the play yard. He
also donated five gallons of paint. Mr.
Ciotti, the school’s custodian, started
to make signs and signals. Five moth-
ers from the PTA showed up in dun-
garees and demanded paint brushes.

By the time the New Rochelle ex-
periment was ready to be put into ef-
feet the Austin Company of England
had agreed to lend fifteen model cars
for use in the project—cars which,
though pedal operated, were equipped
with real lights, a horn and balloon
tires. The curiosity and delight of the
children reached its peak when the
little cars arrived.

When the preparations had been
completed, the first class of youngsters
was led out to the row of waiting vehi-
cles. From his motorcycle, Police Of-
ficer John Sohnberg told the awestruck
group how very important it was for
them to learn to walk and drive care-
fully; then he proceeded to instruct
those chosen to he policemen.

The class was divided into drivers
and pedestrians. The game was to walk
or drive quickly and safely around the
two painted blocks in the school yard.
obeying all signs and all policemen
along the way.

Ollicer Solmberg took his plaee_on
the main At the shrill
sound of his whistle, junior drivers

263

intersection.

 

Ilh FORGOT to obey a “stop street" sign. This is serious
offense. and the class will surer vote his tieket deserved.

rolled down \‘orth .'\venue and junior
oedestrians crossed Mechanic Boule-
vard toward their sarious destinations.

Within days. the effects of the train-
.ng program were noticeable on the
lriving wurse. Within weeks. they
began to u rop up in the classrooms and
long before the program ended. three
months later. they were heing felt by
parents at home.

The eager little boy who started out
oy Zooming his car madly around
every corner soon was halting for ev-
er} stop sign. .‘-\n older ho} who at
hrst refused to ohey an} [mlieeman
espei ially .1 girl- quirkly lc—arned het-

 

 

 

ter: his entire class voted against him.

When the training program was
over. Dr. Jenney wrote an analysis of
the results as follows:

There is a definite carry-over of at-
titudes on traffic safety into life out-
side of school. The over-aggressive
child learns the importance of coopera-
tinn and respeet for the rights and
privileges of others. The timid child
lmilds self-confidence.

All the children came out with an
ine reased respect for property and an
awareness. not only of the rights of
others.~ but of the need for rules and
regulations to protect those rights:

TRAFFIC (IOL'RT in session. As the lady driver describes
offense, classmates hang on every word. Class votes verdiet.

with a greater willingness to await
thcir turn and with a hetter code of
good sportsmanship.

It was at home. however, that thc
program had its most unexpecth ef-
fect. Parents discovered that they could
no longer ignore stop signs, or cross
white lines. or walk against the light.
without drawing criticism from their
children. One mother drove to the
school to tell l)r. .lenney of receiving a
ticket for speeding and of her chagrin
when her small daughter remarked
eomplaccntlyr—\“l knew that would hap-
pen. You always get a tieket when you
speed!"

 

Judge Austin E. Griffiths

VI‘IIE RECREATION movement lost one of its devoted sUpporters in July with
the death of Judge Austin E. Griffiths. who was an active member of the
hoard of directors of the National liecreation Association for forty-two years.

liorn eighty-eight years ago in Worcester. England. dustin (irifliths came
to the linited htates as a small lad and spent his hoyhood on a farm in Ne-
hraska. In 1888 he was graduated from the law class at Michigan l'niversity.
t‘tne year later, the young lawyer settled in thc state of Washington. where he.

hnilt a long and noteworthy career in puhlic service.

’hnong the public offices he held in Seattle were those of Superior Court
gudge. chief of polict. president of the city eonneil and member of the school
hoard. He was also a leader in numerous thit organizations. serving as a
director Hi the Y\l(7‘\. president of the beattle Municipal League. and in many
other kev positions. He was the first president of the Seattle l’layground As:
«aciation and has often heen called the “father of Seattle's playgrounds."

\lam association members will recall meeting Judge (,rifliths at many of the
Hitlonal retreation congresses. llis efforts in promoting adequate recreation

.ppu-rtunities for all people were outstanding. and his nontrilmtions to civic

progress have been widely fclt.

Hermann“

Creative activity draws new participants and
adds interest to an established program . . .

Radio for Amateurs

UR PROGRAM of recreation had be-
" come stagnant, in Williston, North
Dakota. We were offering the same old
things and getting the same partici-
pants week after week. Many in the
town didn’t even realize we had 3 rec-
reation program, and what was worse,
ninety per cent of the community took
no part in it.

A campaign was organized to get
new ideas for programs from the peo-
ple themselves. We began in the high
school, and shortly after this appeal
was made, a ninth grader came into
my olliee with a list of ten boys who
were interested in starting an amateur
radio club. They had even found their
own leader, Mr. J. T. Jacobs, assistant
manager of the local Penny’s store,
who had been a radio and radar in-
structor during World War ll, and
had his own “ham” radio station.

Mr. Jacobs proved to be a person
with overwhelming enthusiasm, and he
readily agreed to become a volunteer
leader. it was announced by means of
the press and radio that a meeting
would be held at the recreation center
for all those interested in such a club;
and nineteen persons registered, one
of them being the chief engineer of the
local radio station, KWBM.

A fifteen-minute program over
KWBM was arranged for the follow-
ing week, to publicize this new activi-
ty. By the next meeting, the group had
grown to twenty-seven participants, of
all ages. Members of the club began
recruiting new members and were sur-
prised to find how much interest had
been created.

An executive council of four mem-
bers, two adults and two teen-agers,

 

MR. STONE is director of recreation in
(he city of Willislon, North Dakola.

OCTOBER 1952

was elected. All meetings are planned
in advance. They Open with recogni-
tion of new members present and the
outlining of work ahead. The next
forty-five minutes are spent on license
examination questions and code prac-
tice. To maintain interest, each per-
son takes a turn at sending code, and
if it is his first meeting, he sends the
alphabet from the list of characters on
the hlackboard. The others are all busy
c0pying. As there are many different
sending speeds, there is practice for
every code speed present and a chance
for all to participate.

The feel of the key in the hand of
a beginner does more to hold his in-
terest than all the speeches made.

The next forty-five minutes are de-
voted to demonstrations and lectures,
assigned from the previous meeting.
These must be good, with a lot of
thought put into them, and this is
where the experienced members get a
chance to shine. It is important that
these lectures or demonstrations end
on time and the formal meeting is
brought to a close. The remainder of
the meeting is turned over to general
discussion.

The club boasts of members from
every profession, and the ages range
from ten to sixty. By the time the
membership had grown to thirty, the
group leader, Mr. Jacobs, discovered
that they were losing many other po-
tential-participants because, though
they were interested in radio, they
weren’t interested in “ham” radio. To
remedy this, the recreation council
added two rooms to the recreation cen-
ter for the club to use.

Now, those interested in “ham” ra-
dio come a little earlier than the rest
in order to do much of their work.
The regular business meeting is held

 

Charles G. Stone

for the next forty-five minutes, with
many guest speakers attending to talk
on telephone operation, radar, engi-
neering, and other subjects. Following
the business meeting, members Split
into three groups. One group goes into
the new radio workshop to repair,
build or work on radios, phonographs,
speakers, or whatever is chosen as a
project. Another group goes into the
“ham” station room to work on the
radio station which they are construct-
ing; and the third group, which has
special interests, goes into the main
room to work on particular phases of
radio and electronics.

The club now boasts a membership
of more than fifty, over half of whom
are new citizens of Williston. When
enough members are licensed ham op-
erators, the club plans to set up an
emergency civil defense network, for
work in disasters and other emergen-
cies; and it is hOped that the club can
unite with other clubs and stations
over the country, to become part of
a national network of stations, ready
to help in times of need.

We highly recommend this type of
special interest group to all recreation
departments. Since the organization of
our own amateur radio club, we have
four other new clubs going, though
none of them has reached the p0pu-
larity of the radio. Skilled men, to
lead such special activities, are availa-
ble in most communities of the coun-
try. They need only to be found and
approached, as has been done here.

265

RECREATION

and the. Virginia Economy

RECREATION IS ONE of the major areas for which the
Advisory Council on the Virginia Economy, in its
attempts to discover the basic factors afleeting the eco-
nomie well-being of the pe0ple of Virginia, organized a
study committee. The findings of this committee have been
issued in a report entitled, “Recreation and the Virginia
Economy,” which includes an analysis of recreation oppor-
tunities, facilities and services in the state, and also. valu-
able recommendations with reference to desirable action.
Much of the material in the report can be applied to ad-
vantage in a consideration of recreation in other states.

The economic aspects of recreation are considered at
some length, and the analysis of the agencies producing
and selling recreation services and facilities in the state
reveals a wide range of offerings. ln concluding this dis-
cussion it is pointed out that “much of the most helpful
recreation enjoyed by Virginians and others—~visiting,
walking or just plain loafing—-involves no monetary ex-
penditures nor contribution to the incomes of business
firms. To the degree that it does refresh and strengthen
the individual who enjoys it, however, it does have eco-
nomic significance, through increasing his capacity to add
to the inemne of society and to his own share in that
income.”

llecreational OppOrtunities in Virginia are described in
a major portion of the report; among the most significant
types are hunting and fishing, parks and waysides, arts
and reading. tourist attractions, commercial recreation,
sports and athletics, playgrounds and eonuuunity centers.
The organization and administration of recreation by gov-
ernmental agencies is also reviewed at some length.

Obstacles to Attainment of Sound
Recreational Objectives

Obstacles to be found in the attitudes, organization. per-
sonnel and facilities of the recreation agencies in Virginia
were summarized as follows:

Lark 0] understanding by the general public a] sound
philosophy and scope a] recreation. Many people feel that
recreation is for youth only and that one of its main

266

purposes is to prevent or reduce juvenile delinquency. In
the minds of many, recreation is concerned mainly with
athletics and sports instead of a broad program.

Lock 0] recognition 0] the need lor recreation lor
everybody. The need of providing equal opportunities in
recreation, especially for Negroes, minority groups and
in rural areas, generally, requires careful consideration
by all parties concerned, intelligent planning and unbiased
acdon.

Lock 0] trained leaders. There are two types of leaders
in recreation: (l) the extreme specialists, and (2) those
who hold a broad general view of the field. Certain institu-
tions give instruction in recreation leadership, but there
is a distinct shortage in the supply of trained qualified
personnel; and salaries now available for recreation posi-
tions in Virginia are not comparable to those of other po-
sitions requiring similar training, education and experi-
ence.

Absence o] coordinated egorts and working relation-
ships among recreational agencies. There must be a will-
ingness to use and share facilities, knowledge. skills and
techniques in broader settings than those controlled by any
one agency or organization. Professional jealousies and
organizational structures should give way to co0perative
working relations and a willingness to submerge identity
in the best interests of the community.

Loch o] lacilities lor a broad recreation program. Much
is being done. but a great deal more needs to be done. to
provide adequate and equal recreational Opportunities for
all citizens of Virginia. Schools need to he planned and
constructed in order that they may be used effectively as
eonnnunity centers, and facilities in general for eommunity
recreation need to be provided. An equally important need
is that of providing for cultural activities. such as dra-
matics, reading, and museum exhibits for all the people.
Similarly, better planning of parks could provide more
recreational areas for community use. l’ollution of many
streams and other bodies of water has eliminated or dam-
aged them for use as sources of recreation in swimming

and fishing.

ltacamrmv

Unexploited Opportunities in Recreation

The number and variety of unexploited recreation op-
portunities in Virginia are almost as unlimited as the
number and variety of individuals who are willing to
think imaginatively about this problem. Only a few are:

Camping and nature activities. Camping should be ex-
panded, particularly the type of non-profit camping pro-
vided by schools and youth organizations in facilities un-
der public or organizational ownership. At present the
majority of camps are operated by private individuals for
profit and by private non-profit organizations. There is
little school camping in the state, and family camping at
state and national parks should be promoted vigorously.

Home, family and church recreation. While home, fam-
ily and church recreation are, strictly speaking, not unex-
ploited, there is a definite need for a “coming back” or
revitalizing of these types of recreation which have meant
so much to earlier generations of Virginians.

Back yards and vacant lots. Some nice work has been
done in a few communities in the development and use of
yards and vacant lots, but, for the most part, these re-
sources have been largely unexploited.

Use of people trained in special fields as volunteer
lcaders. Recreational programs could be broadened and
strengthened greatly by making inventories of the espe-
cially trained people—in the arts and the crafts, sports
and athletics, group leadership and many other fields-—
and recruiting them as voluntary leaders.

Industrial recreation. While some companies have de-
\eloped broad recreation programs for their workers and
their families, the surface has barely been scratched. Large
groups of people could be introduced to good recreation
programs with comparatively little effort, if more indus-
trial concerns and employee groups made concerted efforts
to provide recreational facilities for their workers.

Rccreation [or the aged. The forgotten men and women
in most recreational programs are those who have reached
fifty-five or sixty. The problem of providing appropriate
recreational opportunities for this group is becoming in-
creasineg important as the length of the average life span
and tendencies toward compulsory retirement increase.

Tclevision. The rapid development of television in re-
cent months has created many recreational opportunities
and problems. Families are more or less groping their
way through the various adjustments which this new form
of recreation has brought to them.

Unutilizccl school plants. Perhaps one of the greatest
recreational wastes in Virginia is the school plant which
remains unutilized for recreational or adult educational
activities latc afternoons and evenings and during vaca-
tion periods. While some communities have learned how
to coordinate educational and recreational policies in such
a way as to utilize school plants effectively, many have
made scarcely a beginning in this field.

Recreational fishing. Recreational fishing in Virginia,
especially of the salt water variety, is relatively under-
developed. Those who at present provide facilities for
this sport, and guide parties to the fishing grounds, do
so generally as an incident to their regular commercial

OCTOBER 1952

'4

 

Scenic wonders of Virginia are realized by only a small
portion of the travel trade. View from Blue Ridge Parkway.

fishing activity. Boats, equipment and accommodations,
accordingly, are seldom of the quality to attract sport
fishermen.

Travel trade. In Spite of the effective development as
tourist attractions of many of Virginia’s historic shrines
and natural wonders, only a small portion of the travel
trade which should develop because of the state’s scenic
and historic features, the friendliness and hospitality of
its people, and the excellence of its highways, has actually
been realized up to the present. Improvement of the qual-
ity of eating, sleeping and other facilities for the traveler,
and more effective and better coordinated advertising and
promotional efforts, are major prerequisites for develop-
ing more fully the travel trade potential.

Conelusions and Reeommendations

In‘ a final summary of the study certain fundamental
conclusions are drawn by the committee. One is that rec-
reation has become increasingly important in the Virginia
economy. Another is that in spite of the persistence of
traditional individualistic forms of recreation, the role
of government in facilitating recreation has grown greatly
in recent years. A third is that government activity in the
field of recreation has been characterized by considerable
confusion and lack of coordination. Finally, many oppor-
tunities for increasing both the quantity and quality of
recreation services available to the people of Virginia and
the financial returns to those who provide such services,
especially in the travel trade, have been developed only
slightly.

Recommendations to strengthen the state’s recreational
program are presented in three general categories.

A. Educational recommendations. The committee recom-
mends that the following steps be taken to promote wider
understanding on the part of the general public of rec-
reational ideas and opportunities:

1. Emphasize education for leisure and development
of self-reliance in the use of leisure time as a part of the
gcneral education program for all children.

2. Interpret to the people of the state a philosophy of
recreation and create the idea that to provide for the

267

people of the community in a recreational way does not
necessarily mean an organized program or a planned
community center.

3. Stress the development of home and neighborhood-
centered leisure-time activities.

4. DevelOp a program of public information through
the press, radio, films, speakers, clubs, special bulletins.
and advertising.

5. Encourage colleges to dechOp trained leadership
for positions in recreation, as well as to include incident-
ally in established courses, in the general education pro-
gram, opportunities for appreciation and knowledge of
how leisure time can be used in a desirable manner.

6. Set up an annual conference for key county and
municipal lay leaders in recreation so that they can be
assisted in interpreting a total recreation program to their
communities.

7. Develop a program to inform the personnel serving
tourists as well as the general public as to the nature and
extent of the state’s tourist industry, its chief attractions
and its importance to the economy of Virginia.

B. Recommendations for action by private business.
The committee recommends the following types of action
by private business firms, as a means of improving both
recreational opportunities for consumers and their own
incomes:

l. Participate actively in programs for raising stand-
ards for food, lodging, service stations and other tourist
facilities carried on by state and local chambers of com-
merce, travel councils, and appropriate associations of
particular types of business.

2. Cooperate fully with state and local governmental
agencies charged with responsibility for maintaining clean,
healthful, safe, and attractive conditions for employees and
travelers.

3. Support advertising and promotional activities of
the Virginia Travel Council, the Virginia State Chamber
of Commerce, the state Department of Conservation and
Development and other appropriate private aml govern-
mental agencies working in this field.

4. Assist travelers and at the same time promote rc-
ciprocal relationships with other travel-trade businesses
in their own community and with tourist attractions 'and
businesses in other parts of Virginia.

5. Assume personal responsibility for protecting and
extending Virginia’s widespread reputation for the friend-
liness, courtesy and hospitality of its people to visitors.

C. Recommendations for government action. ln recog-
nition of the important questions of public policy related
to the effective development of the state’s recreational re-
sources, the committee recommends the following types of
government action:

1. Establish by statute an interoagcncy committee on
recreation made up of a representative of each state agency
concerned with recreation and the administrative assistant
to the governor. The latter would be able to hring to the
committee the whole picture of the state government and
help to guide the growing recreational programs of all the
state agencies in an orderly manner. This committee

268

should be staffed with a permanent executive secretary and
should be a part of the budgetary and administrative or-
ganization: of the Department of Conservation and Devel-
opment. This committee should be empowered not only to
coordinate the efforts of the various state agencies. but
also to provide advisory services to local eotntnnnities re-
questing sueh services when other state agencies are not
in a position to meet these requests.

2. Establish by statute a representative citizens’ ad-
visory committee on recreation to interpret public needs
to the inter-agency committee and to assist in interpreting
to the citizens of the commonwealth the program of the
inter-agency committee and its afliliated state agencies.

3. Encourage the establishment of inter-agency com-
mittees and citizens’ advisory committees in local com-
munities to promote greater coordination: of recreational
activities, cSpccially as between schools and other govern-
mental and private agencies concerned with recreation.

4. Encourage the extension of organized recreation
programs to the ultimate goal that some type of hroad rec-
reational offering is provided in each county and city of
the state.

5. Encourage lay organizations to sponsor recrea-
tional activities such as drama, festivals and so on, in
local communities throughout the state, on a state-wide
basis, so as to reach every community and so that such
projects may be a functional part of local recreational
Opportunities.

6. Encourage the extension of public park facilities
and waysides to make it possible for people to enjoy them
close to home, so that more people can use the facilities,
and so that more water areas for swimming, boating and
fishing can be made available. Equipping a larger number
of the waysides with safe drinking water and sanitary
rest rooms would eliminate a widespread criticism by
travelers of Virginia facilities of this type.

7. Encourage the establishment, development, and
use of libraries, museums and theatre, music and art
groups throughout the state.

8. Encourage the use of school buildings and other
public buildings and grounds as community recreation
centers and stimulate the inclusion of recreational facili-
ties in the planning of new construction.

9. Continue and extend the present policy of the state
Department of Conservation and Dcvelopmcnt in actively
advertising and promoting the attractions of Virginia.

 

F ricndship Angels

Lately. golden foil angels. handmade
by refugees in the Bavarian Alps. are
on sale from the international organiza-
tion. Frit'nd‘hit Among Children and
't'onthnprocemfs to be used for the
benefit of children throughout the
world. The gold or siber friendship
angels. fourteen and a half inches high.
retail for $2.50 (including postage).
Fifteen in one box are priced at $23.00
--—or $1.65 each. lt ls suggested that
clubs. churches and other organlzations
may wish to resell these for their (“III
benefit.

 

RECREATION

2mm 62: Pmmtdae

pLAN NOW, for Book Week—November 16 to 22, 1952.

The pleasure, relaxation and inspiration that lie in a
good book meet all the requirements of recreation. As for
carry-over value, pity the adult who never learned to en-
joy reading. Consider the advantages possessed by the
well-read adult over the unread person; and certainly no
form of recreation costs less than reading. in those com-
munities where public libraries exist.

The problem, then, is not whether reading has a place
in our programs, but rather how it can be handled. How
can we make children aware of the unehallengeable merits
of good reading? The question is extremely pertinent in
light of the time they spend in watching television, often
with doubtful benelits.

The board of recreation of Butler, Pennsylvania, saw
some of the solution in Book Week, an annual project,
occurring every November, of the Children’s Book Coun-
cil.* In the fall of 1949, the recreation executive—supplied
with literature from the council—sat down with the li-
hrarian of the Butler Public Library, Mary Mitchell, to
discuss what might be done. A tie-in with the schools
secIned essential, and a meeting was called of all school
librarians and representatives from schools without libra-
rians. This included public and parochial schools alike:
The Junior Women’s Club, greatly interested in the public
library, was invited to participate, as were Butler book
merchants.

Book Week that year, and the two since then, has been
good for the attitude of young people toward books and
reading. In the process, the Observances have involved
thousands of children in a multitude of activities.

Virtually every form of the arts have been utilized.
School assemblies have been devoted to plays about books.
One school produced a musical, based completely on the
theme of books, their use and contents. Elementary school
children have illustrated stories, written poelns, book re-
views and essays about their favorites. School publications
liave issued special editions. Book quizzes have been given
over both Butler radio stations simultaneously.

The first year, most of the'organization and ideas came
from the central committee, with the emphasis on city-wide
competition. The best illustrations, for instance, were
mounted and displayed in each school for half a day. The
names of children submitting the best arguments for “My
Favorite Five Books” were placed on a scroll that circu-

*Childrcn's Book Council, 62 West 45th Street, New York 19, N.Y.
OCTOBER 1952

Robert Kresge

lated throughout the classrooms in a similar manner.

The second year, each school and grade was placed on
its own. Visitations were made by Miss Mitchell and the
recreation executive to recognize work done. The results
exceeded the lirst year. There was no letdown last Novem-
ber. All of which proves the importance of encouraging
initiative.

Visits to the public library by entire classes have given
many children their first acquaintance with the “home of
books.” In Butler, increased interest is manifest in the
jump in circulation of children’s books.

A full-page advertisement in the Butler Eagle, paid for
by civic-minded businessmen, has been used annually to
keep interest high. This carries the mayor’s proclama-
tion, oHicially designating this week locally.

Winners of quizzes are always presented with books as
prizes, these being donated by local merchants. In home-
room bulletin board decoration contests, boxes of candy
bars make inexpensive popular awards.

The celebration of Book Week is now a regular part of
the fall season in all of the schools of Butler and in the
activities of the public library and the board of recreation.
Here is an attempt to reverse the trend away from books
and all that they offer. Of course, the fact that other in-
terests and activities are necessary to a full life hardly
needs mention here. There are countless ways in which
young people can and do spend their time. Training for
life is one way to evaluate these leisure-time pursuits. Us-
ing this criterion who will deny that, “The leaders of to-
morrow are reading good books today.”

BOB KRESGE is director of Butler’s board of recreation.

School children in scene from musical produced for Book Week.

MAKE FRJIENDS WITH BU

 

A Settlement House Adopts Gilbert and Sullivan

 

"Drama is a sin." Dominic, age eight-

.. W1 . .
"1."? een. was brought up to believe tlns. Then

one day he was persuaded to sit in a back seat during a
rehearsal of Gilbert and Sullivan's Condoh’ers. For six
months he slipped into that back seat, apparently unnoticed.
until one day at the director’s command, “Everyone on
stage," he went up. too. His corner gang peeked in a couple
of times to be sure he was really in the show. Since then
drama has become just a “little sin” to his family.

It is a quarter of a century since the adult musical group
called the Elizabeth Peabody llouse Operetta Company
started in the Elizabeth Peabody llouse, a settlement in the
West End of Boston. lt all began in the year 1927 when
three settlement house. groups— the classical orchestra, the
Waring Dramatic Club and the Clover Glee Club—~eombined
to put on the first Operetta, 11411.5. I’l'nafore. Ever since,
the unemployed, doctors. housewives, nurses, garment
workers, fruit pcddlers and secretaries have made up the
casts of the yearly productions. Gilbert and Sullivan airs
prevail in one butcher shop in the market where workers
have leading roles. The Operetta is an excellent activity for
former members who have outgrown other house activities.
At the performance in February l952. there was one minor
role played by a member, a traveling salesman, who has
been in each of the twenty-five annual performances. There
also were eight members who have appeared in at least
fifteen performances.

Since l‘JB‘). the Junior Operetta Company has prepared
voung people for the senior group. They have presented a

 

\llss DALE is the hem! worker a! the wtlh'menl house.

270

 

shortened version of Mozart's Magic Flute and of Pirates
of 1’enzance, Chimes of Normandy, and 11.1115. 1’1'nafore.
Once, with outside groups, they participated in the first
Boston performance of Aaron Copland's Second Hurri-
cane. The group was trained by a volunteer, Leonard Bern-
stein, who has since become well known in music eircles.
Gilbert and Sullivan opcrettas are our answer to many
problems for the following reasons:
1. They have good music and good lines, yet are not
beyond the abilities of the average neighborhood group.
2. Because of the glamour of the costumes and the ample
dramatic action, they have sneeeeded where a choral group
has failed.
3. They are projects which interest the several musical
and nationality groups meeting at the settlement.
4. They are given in English and diction is stressed.
5. They are projects in which all the neighborhood
groups can participate.
a. Women’s clubs can make the costumes.
b. Art classes make the posters. scenery and props.
c. All groups (one lmndred eighty at the Elizabeth
I’eabody House) can help in selling tickets.
6. They are excellent entertainment for children aml
for adults.
7. The older adults can be just as active in the produc-
tions as the younger ones.
8. The use of many neighborhood talents such as ea r-
pentry. sewing. and so ou—Jis encouraged.
0. There are opportunities for mild participation. such
as in serving as an usher, or active participation. such as
in acting one of the roles.

Itacamrlm

Hints for the organization of such a group:

1. Musical Director—It is important to have a director
who believes in devel0ping leads from the raw material
found in the chorus. Very often a volunteer director may
be found: however, if a good volunteer director is not
available, a professional one should be hired. Amateur
groups want and can be trained to hold to professional
standards. Proof that it can be done with a neighborhood
east such as ours is the comment written about our com-
pany in 1946: “The acting and staging was at a. level far
above anything the Metropolitan has ever given us.”

2. Dramatic Instruction—“While dramatic instruction is
not usually considered as important as direction, the lack
of such instruction is one reason why many musical shows
are poor. All of us have seen amateur productions in
which the singers forgot that there is such a thing as ac-
tion, in which they stood around awkwardly in wooden
poses until the time came for them to move to another
part of the stage, or in which the chorus was ignorant of
the fact that they were to do anything but sing.

3. Specialists—elf the director of music is unable to
produce the show, do the ensemble work and the dramatic
coaching, specialists should be secured for short periods
to insure a production which is perfectly integrated, beau-
tifully acted and flawlessly sung.

4. Self-Support—We have found that the expenses of
the Operettas could be paid each year by presenting one
preview performance for high school students (at reduced
rates) and three regular performances with an attendance
of about three hundred and seventy-five people at each.

5. Outside Activities—Members of our operetta com-
pany have enlarged their activities in many ways. A few
of them formed a music appreciation group and invited
other members of the house to join them. Choral speech
and folk dance groups have grown out of this activity.
Many members have started taking lessons from excellent
music teachers in Boston and have appeared on various
radio and television shows. Socially, the group attends
many plays and operas together, and holds a big “old-
members” social after the performance.

Gilbert and Sullivan operettas have been the answer to
the needs of many of our people. Anthony, age twenty-five,
knew only his job as a stockroom boy by day and dice
playing on the street corner by night. Our neighborhood
worker persuaded him to sit in on a rehearsal one night;
he became interested and has been a member of the group
for five years. A change in his appearance was imme-
diately evident—he began to wear a necktie and a clean
shirt to the meetings. He turned to better music on the
radio. and bought Gilbert and Sullivan phonograph rec-
ords. Then he began taking piano lessons, practicing at
the settlement house, and finally he bought a piano for
himself. During his third year with the group, he gave up

OCTOBER 1952

 

Jane Dale

Junior Operetta Company pro-
ductions offer an opportunity
for teen-agers to try their
talents. Experience may lead
to roles with senior group.

 

Senior group has presented
twenty-five productions in as
many years. This year, ever
popular “The Mikado” was giv-
en for enthusiastic audiences.

his job as a stock boy and became a full-time student at a
school of music directed by a friend of the operetta di-
rector. He had not finished high school, so special arrange-
ments were made for him at the music school. Alert and
understanding leadership has meant everything to this
young man.

“The Kings”, a cellar-hole gang of twelve boys from
fourteen to sixteen years old, were the terrors of their
block because of their antisocial activities. The mother of
two of the boys called on the Elizabeth Peabody House
“gang worker” to see if he would take them on; which he
did. The boys were not interested in any of the traditional
building-centered activities such as athletics, dances or
crafts. However, the worker continued to meet with them
in their turnip cellar; and one day he casually asked them
if they would care to fill in as pirates in the Pirates of
I’enzance. They were intrigued; however, an unusual
schedule of short, but frequent and often impromptu re-
hearsals had to be adopted. At the performance—in cos-
tumes they had created—they were both fearful and won-
derful to behold. Two of the gang members eventually
sang leads and are now the mainstays of the Junior Oper-
etta Company.

Mike, sixteen, had left school to work in a bakery. He
had never learned to read, but he played a fierce Dick
Dead-Eye in Pinafore.

Mrs. Stone had lived all her previous life in the country.
She had four children, and when her husband was sent to
a mental institution, she was forced to move into a crowd-
ed tenement area. She came to the settlement to see if she
could find some help in understanding the strange lang-
uagcs and unfamiliar habits she saw around her. She
joined the operetta company and found friendship and
security there. _ ‘

There were members of the cast with similar stories to
tell in each of the operettas which were presented.

How to make attractive lamps and other useful objects from native woods.

IT’S A NATURAL

TRYING 1'0 BRING the outdoors indoors has been a favor-

ite pastime of man since the beginning of eivilization.
He started by domesticating animals. Now, he adorns man-
tels with stufled fish and potted plants. The modern flare
for homes walled with knotty pine shows that people still
like to take something from its crude natural state and
turn it into a useful and beautiful object.

You can do it yourself. Did you ever think of making
planters, hook ends or lamps, utilizing the natural shape
and grain of the wood? It ean be done«--cven hy a mere
amateur at woodcraft! To find material for this project,
start at home—«in your back yard, in the lot next door—
and look for deadwood, or fallen trees or branches. Choose
wood that has interesting twists or bumps on its surface.
Driftwood is ideal for this craft. You will find it where
there are streams or considerable moisture. A beaver dam
would provide a veritable treasure strike. The beavers
have the logs and branches already eut for you and auto-
graphed with their teeth marks.

The choice of wood, ol course, depends upon the ohjeet
you wish to create. Lamps can be made from one or two
pieces. if this is your first try at woodcraft, however, it
would be better to start with a lamp ol only one piece, for
a two-piece lamp is harder to assemble.

Planters or book ends are easier to make. Book ends
can be created from thc end of a small log which has been
sectioned oil according to the height desired. The diameter
of the book ends is predetermined by the diameter of the
log, so be sure your log is not too large. For a planter.
choose a piece of wood the exaet size you want for your

finished produet.

 

MISS VM‘MIN, an amateur in ieoorlcralr while majoring
in biology at Clarke College, is training as a physical ther-
apist, Women’s allerlieal Specialist Corps o] the Army.

"72

Mary Virginia Vaughn

 

The finished product can glow with soft, satin sheen achieved
through careful sanding process. Lamps are satisfying to make.

Take a good look at the wood you intend to use. Make
eertain that it is solid, to avoid the disappointment of
having your work of art split open or crack. Be eareful,
too, to select dry wood, or wood that will dry easily. This
is necessary, as grecn or damp wood will ehange shape as
the drying process advances.

You’ll want your work to he as attractive as possible, so
look for little things to make it that way. You may find
knots, or small stones embedded in the wood, and these
make sandpapcring diflieult. lf deep enough, however. they
can be turned into an asset. l’olished and lacquered. they
give an interesting acecnt to the finish.

Be alert to varied color tones in the wood. The most
common of these. are hues of gray or brown, but some
woods from mountain streams are bright with splashes of
grecn, yellow and red. Whatever you do. don't let a drab
surface fool you. Find out what is beneath the dirt and
hark. With a sharp knife, shave oil a portion of the bark
and expose the grain and eolor of the wood. This may he
just the piece you need to mateh one already sanded.

Preparation of the wood begins with a good seruhbing.
A quick dnnking in mild soap aml warm water. plus a

Recinznlox

brisk scrub with a hard brush, will clear away sand and
loose dirt. Rinse and allow it to dry thoroughly.

All of these articles must have a smooth flat base. The
wood can be leveled on the bottom by sawing or planing,
lhe base being finished later by gluing a mat of felt to it.

The next step involves the application of a lot of elbow
grease. lt is the sanding process. Three grains of sand-
paper are used: coarse, medium and fine. The coarse-
grained sandpaper is applied to the rough outer surface
Of the wood. Sand down any knots with this paper. Then
go over the entire surface with the medium-grained paper
and sand until the wood grain and other markings are un-
covered and made as smooth as possible. Small scratches
will be removed by the fine-grained paper. Hard work?
Yes! But you’ll be glad you didn’t skimp on the sanding
when the lacquer is applied. At that point, every tiny flaw
of the wood is emphasized, so thoroughness in sanding
cannot be stressed enough. Incidentally, you may come
across novel indentations, deep in the wood. Capitalize on
these, as they give a charming handmade look. An old
pocket knife will help to scrape away embedded dirt quick-
ly; then, smooth off the rough edges with sandpaper.

Book ends are perhaps the easiest things to handle in
woodcraft. To get an effective shape, try cutting off a log
that measures about eight inches in diameter at a point
eight inches from the end. Cut this piece lengthwise to
form two half domes. Presto! Two nicely matched book
ends. lf driftwood is used, it may be too light to support
books. Drill or carve out a large hole in the base of a
book end and fill it with lead. This will give the needed
weight and support.

Planters present a different problem. You’ll need to
hollow out the bowl in which the soil and plants are
placed. Don’t follow a strict symmetrical pattern. Smooth
away the wood by cutting along the lines of the grain.
It’s much easier this way, and it gives the plantcr its own
pleasing and natural lines.

Making a lamp requires a little more skill and thought.
Make sure first that the right electrical connection is avail-
able. Choose it for weight, size, and color. Let your hard-
ware dealer help you in choosing it. The cost need not run

   

over three dollars. Y ou’ll want the lamp to look nice, but
keep it practical.

It can be ruined by carelcss drilling, so be careful. To
hold the wood steady by means of a good visc during the
drilling is very important. The wood must be padded
against the shai‘p cdgc of the vise with a piece of thick
cloth. When drilling, place the outlet for the cord in an
inconspicuous place, cithcr at the back or to the side of
the lamp. Civc extra space to the portion of the wood that
will surround the bend of the light cord inside the lamp,
so thal the bend of the cord will not be dangerously sharp.

OCTOBER 1952

 

an

Showing sequence Of wiring to be followed after drilling. The
felt, cut to shape of base, ready to be glued is shown (left).

This can be done by drilling an extra large hole from
the bottom.

In assembling the lamp, make the light socket secure in
the lamp stem. Fit the neck of the electric piece with a
soft copper tube that will extend into the wooden part of

. the lamp. Use a heavy, wood glue to fill around and secure

it. Ordinarily, the pipe need not show. If you run into
difficulty, do not hesitate to ask the help of someone who
knows more about wiring than you do. You don’t want
your lamp to be a fire hazard.

Now, your masterpiece in wood is nearly finished. lf
you don’t mind the smell of paint, the rest is all fun. The
wood must be lacquered or shellacked. Unfortunately,
shellac has a tendency to turn yellow and to form air
bubbles. If you choose this finish, polish the air bubbles
from it after each coat has dried. Do this with fine sand-
paper. Five coats give' an attractive finish.

Lacquer gives a clear, bubble-free surface. Ten coats of
the lacquer are required for a good job. If you allow one
half-hour between each coat, the lacquer will have plenty
of time to dry. The best formula for lacquer application
is six coats of one part lacquer to one part thinner, and
four coats of two parts lacquer to one part thinncr. Finally,
for a more beautiful lamp, try a satin finish. This you can
achieve by giving the lamp a rubdown with linseed oil to
which a small amount of paint dryer has been added. Do
this after the last coat of lacquer has dried.

Now, whip off your apron, stand back and glow with
satisfaction. You deserve to be proud, for you have made
it with your own hands. Woodcraft takes time and energy,
but don’t be afraid to tackle it. The fun is in the doing.

34% NATIONAL RECREATION CONGRESS

is now in session in Seattle
The story of the big meeting, photographs, re-
ports, news and other materials therefrom

will appear in

7365mm

December, 1952

 

273

 

Model Train Races

Francis Donnon

0 Moch train racing, which is being introduced in a
number of recreation centers, has become one of the most
popular special activities in the I’ottstown, Pennsylvania,
recreation program. Early in January of each year the
young trainmen of the community man the cabins of their
miniature trains, jam the throttles and await the "go"
signal for their trains to race on fifty feet of especially
constructed track.

The idea of sponsoring such an activity for boys and
girls was passed on to us from our neighboring town of
Boycrtown. There. the train races have proved thrilling
to both participants and spectators for several years. The
same interest and enthusiasm have developed in I’ottstown.
Although all children do not own trains, they greatly en-
joy watching the races and doing all they can to help.

The accompanying picture illustrates how the track is
arranged so that contestants may compete in heats of two
each. The cost of one complete layout was approximately
one hundred fifty dollars. All materials were purchased
at cost.

The local Kiwanis Club paid for two complete layouts
and provides the judges and prizes for the annual allair.
The boys of the high school's vocational school mounted
the track permanently on sections of three-quarter inch
plyboard, and arranged the electrical controls. The sec-
tions can be taken apart and stored easily.
________________—————
Armor: is association consultant, Education-Recreation
Diiision, Health and Wel/are Council 0/ Delaware. l’lrila-
rlelpln'a and illontgornery counties, Pennsylvania. An active
Kiwanian. lie was [armerly reerealion director, l’ottstou'n.

274

 

View of track arrangement which allows contestants to compete
to heats of two each. Layouts provided by local Kiwanis club.

The three-rail, forty-inch diameter track provides a
larger turning curve than the "’0" gauge track. and will
accommodate any train made to Operate on an “0" or
“027” gauge track. A separate two-rail lay out is necessary
for those boys and girls who own the two.rail trains.

A system of controls was installed to prevent false starts
and add a hit of realism to the contest. This system is
manned by the ollicial starter. When the current is oil, a
red light goes on; when the starter is ready to begin the
race, a warning amber light is turned on: and the green
“go” signal is [lashed to begin the race. The flashing of
the green light also turns on the current control switch.
which permits current to flow to each transformer and
permits both trains to start simultaneously.

Train Classifications

CroUp I: All Lionel, Marx,I three-rail American Flycr.
and other lrains that operate on “0" and “027" gauge
track. (l).C. models cxecplerl.)

Class A Twin diesels 4 car.-
Class II Single diesels 4 cars
Class C Engine and tender 3 can
Clan D Single engine 4 cars
(Ilns- H Articulated trains (all together)

Clan I" All lypes magnidraclion twill not eompele again-s1

other classes)

RECREATION

Croup ll: Two«rail American Plyer, three-sixteenths
inch scale trains.

Class A Engine with eight driving whet-ls '1 cars
Class ll Engine with six driving wheels 3 cars
Class C Engine with four driving wheels 3 ears
Class D Passenger diesels, must pull 4 ears

(Additions to this classification are necessary as train
manufacturers make new models.)

Procedure

1. Each contestant is given a trial run of two laps before
he begins his initial race. Thereafter, no trial runs are
permitted.

2. Winners are determined by elimination in heats of two
until a class champion is declared. Class champions com-
pete for the group championships and the group cham-
pions compete for city championship.

3. Each contestant is required to bring his own engine
and cars. Choice of tracks is determined by a flip of a coin
by the younger contestant in each race.

4. Preliminary races consist of one heat of two laps. Semi-
final and final heats of all races consist of the hest of three
heats of two laps each.

5. Contestants are paired at random.

6. If there is danger of uncoupling, rubber bands may be
used to hold the cars together.

7. All events are run on layouts provided by the sponsors.
Standard A. C. transformers are furnished.

8. Appropriate prizes are awarded to class and group
champions and to the city champion.

9. The decision of the judges is final.

Rules

1. Boys and girls eighteen years of age or younger may
compete in the various contests.

_. 0 Casey Jones would have felt at home in
the Rotary Field House at Rutland, Ver-
mont, on the night of last December
twenty-seventh. A model train contest,

planned and conducted by the Rutland recreation depart-

ment’s superintendent and his assistant, Mr. Richard Pas-
volsky, was being held.

This contest reached boys and girls who do not ordi-
narily devote much time to athletics or other pOpular ac-
tivities. In fact, one of the contestants—only three and one-
half years old—proved his ability to Operate his train by
placing as runner-up in the engine and tender class.

 

MR. l'lERDIC, superintendent of recreation. in. Rittland, is
also the president of the Vermont Recreation Society.

OCTOBER 1952

 

hl Iv Iva-1'
Inn-n. Dun-u ,

Povvsvoun, Penna.

Tnmu£ncrro Gash-Tuner. an_ou‘r_

- Czuvnln. Con-Tom..- g Luau-r.- nloxutw-Wu
- INDIUI-UQL ‘Tluuuar Ola-acne - l Ill'o.

- CUIVIDTIA¢K act-show -- 46 ltdn.

- STIRIOHTTOHOI. Sttd'lon - 9: Mar...

- Sun-rat.- - 1 F'qu nun.
-Bunrtn Bur-n: - 2 Rte'u.

Dawn Im- C-n-Tnuc‘rcu BY burs or
Four-raven“ rho-1 Sen-u—
Vault-no HI!- DLPT.

n
.F

I
\

Chart showing curve of train race layout with central control.

2. Contestants may enter one train.

3. A train may be entered by one contestant only.

4. Both trains must clear the first curve or the race will be
started again.

5. Three jumps in any one heat disqualify a contestant
for that heat, and his Opponent shall be declared the win-
ner.

6. If a train jumps the track, the Operator must turn off
his control throttle, put the train on the track, and then
resume the race.

7. Remote control trains may or may not be locked in for-
ward position at the discretion of the contestant.

8. Contestants are not permitted to receive any assistance
during the races.

Special races were set up for trains that are fifteen years
old or older. An event for the Dads proved highly suc-

cessful and gave them a chance to show their skill in
operating the trains.

Model Railroading

James F. Herdie, Jr.

The model train hobby is a fascinating one, not only for
youngsters, but also for older people. Certain men in the
business and professional fields devote a great deal of time
to the building and Operation of miniature trains during
their leisure hours. It provides an outlet for healthful en-
ergy and is excellent recreation.

F or our contest, trains were divided into three classifica-
tions—single engine diesels, engine and tender, and magne-
tized trains—and for our first experimental year, a three-
rail and “0” or “027” gauge track was used. In the future,
another class, using double rail tracks, will be added.

There were four age groups—Division I, eight years of
age and under; Division II, nine through eleven years of
age; Division III, twelve through fourteen years of age;
and Division IV, fifteen years of age and over. This last

275

 

Runner up, age three and one-half, in engine and tender class.

classification is particularly important to the success of a
contest. In planning such an event, be sure not to eliminate
the adult division, which can draw fathers and other in.
tcrested men into your program. A prominent businessman
who took part in our contest made the remark, “This train
contest has given me more enjoyment than I’ve had in the
past ten years!”
All events were run on two similar track layouts, both
of which were donated. There was no added expense in.
volvcd here, as each layout was formed quite simply,
merely by using the top of a ping-pong table placed upon
two sawchorscs and covered with a blanket. A standard
3.0. dual-controlled transformer was set up between the
two tables and contestants gave their trains a trial run.
After each entrant had signed his name, address, train
classification and age group, the schedule of races was set

up. (A minimum of four contestants is necessary to estab-

lish any class.) All events were determined by straight
elimination, with winners "oing to the next round.

livery contest must have a set of rules, and we set up
the following:

l l 1 Each contestant must have his own engine and may
not enter more than one in any one elass.

('2) lf 3 train jumps the track, the Operator must turn
off his control, put the train back, and resume operation.
Three jumps in a heat disqualify a contestant.

l3) Preliminary races shall be of two laps. Semi-final
and final races of four laps.

The contest that excited the most interest was between
two fathers who had borrowed their sons’ trains.

Certain men were chosen to form a “guard railing” at
the points where the train traeks curved. This was a neces-
sary precaution, as a train might have jumped the track
and damaged the engine, or hurt somc youngstcr who was
too close to the layout.

Small plastic trephy cups were presented to the winners
and runncrs-up of each division.

We were well rewarded for the time spent in planning
and setting up the layouts by the happy smiles and excite-
mcnt of the children, and the adults as well, as the contest
came to a close. The department feels that this event was
a great success and hopes to make it an annual affair.

Spotting this activity between Christmas and New
Year's is productive of greatest participation, as the chil-
dren have longer lcisurc hours during this period, and
many receivc trains for Christmas.

You can create considerable interest through your local
sporting goods or department stores which usually are
more than willing to donate track, transformer, and extra
cars. l’ropcr publicity can do a great deal for your contest.

‘Ve feel indebted to George Sargisson of the llccreation
Promotion and Service of Wilmington. Delaware, who

originally gave us this idea.

Aids to Model Railroading

A NEW FILM on model railroading, Boys' Railroad Club,

is available to schools, Boy Scout troops, YMCA’s,
hoys’ clubs, hobby groups, and other organizations, from
Association Films, lncorporatcd, on a free loan basis. The
fifteen-minute film tells about a boys' hobby club where the
members operate their own railroad system.

The sinall'scale railroad presented is rcalistie down to
the last spike, with remote control switches, freight yards,
lighted stations, tree-lined streets, trestlcs, tunnels, and
even locomotives that pull smoke. The highlight of the film
is a visit to the clubhouse by a prominent railroader who
gives the boys some firsthand information about running
the "big ones." He points out that the same principles can
be applied to their own system.

Livc shots of real trains in action are Used to illustrate
what the railroader is saying. Trains are shown rounding

276

bends, on the straightaway, roaring through tunnels, and
in the yards. The audience is also given an “engineer’s eye
view" of railroading from the cab of a fast strcamliuer.

This is a Transfilm production, sponsored by the A. S.
Gilbert Company, manufacturers ofAmcrican Flycr Trains.
Borrow from Association Films: New York, 35 West 45th
Street; Chicago, 79 East Adams Street; San Francisco.
351 Turk Street; and Dallas, 19l5 Live Oak Street.

Bibliography 0/ Railway Literature, compiled by Associ-
ation of American llailroads, Transportation Building,
Washington 6, l). C., carries a section devoted to books
on model railroading, listing publishers and prices. It also
includes a section on juvenile books and general literatnre
for those who wish to increase their knowledge of rail-
roads and railway travcl. Available free. The association:
invites inquiries on any phase of railroading.

RECREATION

THERE IS A recreation program in Ar-
lington, Virginia, which is progressing
according to a development schedule
that actually works! Too often, such
schedules are read, approved and left
to gather dust. Not so in Arlington.
From 1935, when recreation consisted
of a playground program for children
and sports for men and boys, to 1951,
when voters approved an $83,000
bond issue to acquire more recreation
lands, the Arlington story is a story of
intensive planning, hard work and
steadily increasing success.

Lying across the Potomac River
from Washington, D. C., Arlington felt
the tremendous impact of govern-
mental expansion which began about
1940, immediately before the war. Un-
til then, it had been primarily a sub-
urban area, with parts still rural. In
1940, the population was 57,040; in
1943, it was 85,048. By 1951, it had
reached 145,000. Arlington had be-
come a city, residential in character,
but so built up that open areas for
recreation were at a definite premium.

Before 1940, public organization of
recreation was not an urgent need.
Like most suburban communities, Ar-
lington enjoyed a certain amount of
organized recreation through such vol-

 

MISS ANDERSON is the information di-
rector of the department of recreation

of Arlington County, Virginia.

OCTOBER 1952

ACTIHN

NIARLINGTHN

untary organizations as churches, fra-
ternal orders, homes, golf and hunting
clubs; through such community or-
ganizations as Girl and Boy Scouts,
Camp Fire Girls, the YMCA; through
various commercial enterprises, such
as movies, bowling alleys and pool
halls; and through the public schools.

The first public recreation program
was inaugurated in 1935, with a
$2,500 budget. This sum provided for
the operation of three baseball fields
and eight weeks of summer play-
grounds at eleven schools. Gradually,
the program was expanded to include
sports for boys and men, spring and
fall playgrounds, junior recreation
clubs for teen-agers, and leadership for
PTA and church affairs. Most of the
activities were carried on in the
schools, a few in other county-owned
areas. The entire program was handled
by one year-round worker, the director
of recreation, who was also the super-
visor of physical education in the
schools.

When the bombshell of increasing
pOpulation hit Arlington, it soon be-
came evident that more public recrea-
tion facilities were essential. Empty
fields and vacant lots, once tacitly al-
lotted as play space for neighborhood
children, became sites for apartments
and housing developments. The exist-
ing recreation staff was too small and
too over-worked to handle the ever-

Ellen Anderson

growing demand for more recreation.
Something had to be done.

Population pressures weighed heavi-
ly upon the county planning commis-
sion, who drew up and continuously
promoted a land acquisition program
designed to provide enough usable play
space, not merely to serve the popula-
tion of the present, but also to serve
the estimated population of the future.

However, county-wide realization of
the need to buy land did not develop
until later, when scarcity of open land
had become serious and prices had
risen considerably.

In 1940-41, the Virginia state super-
visor of health, physical education and
recreation, together with the executive
secretary of the American Association
for Health, Physical Education and
Recreation made a recreational survey
of Arlington; in 1944, Dr. Jay B.
Nash, of New York University, pre-
sented a recreation plan for Arlington
County to the county board and its
recreational advisory committee. Also
in 1944, the county planning commis-
sion presented a master recreation plan
for the county, which covered recrea-
tion land needs up to 1965.

Later in 1944, the Arlington county
board passed a resolution establishing
the Arlington recreation council, to co-
ordinate and unify administration of
public recreation in the area. This
couneil included a member of the coun-

277

ty board, a member of the school
board, the county manager, the super-
intendent of xhools and the common-
wealth attorney.

In 1946. while the recreation pro-
gram had been expanding in the di-
rection already chosen. the Arlington
community eouncil conducted a social
survey of Arlington. The resultant re-
port was “an attempt . . . to provide
Arlington with some guide posts for
the development of its social welfare
program in the future rather than ma-
terial for immediate reorganization of
that program. Arlington’s needs for
the next decade are what the studies

3‘.

attempt to indicate . . .

The recreation study advised a seven-
point program: (1) more kinds of rec-
reation activities on a year-round basis,
with special mention of couuuunity
recreation center programs for all ages,
of sports for women and girls, of pre-
school programs, and of an enlarged
playground program; (2) a year-
round rccrcation staff. headed by a
full-time superintendent of recreation:
(3) a county recreation office, kept
open at least during the usual hours of
the other county offices: (4) a larger,
more adequate budget fat that time.
they proposed a budget eight times as
large as the one then in effect—$200,-
000 as compared to $25,000); (5)
better publicity on services and ac-
complishments; (6) operation of the
public recreation program as a county
department, administered by a lay
board, under the authority of the man-
ty board; and (7) formation of an ad-
visory recreation board.

Chief deviation of the community
council plan from the Nash plan was
the separation of school and recreation
administration. Although the recrea-
tion program had moved along smooth.
ly as a part of the county education
set-up, the council felt that increased
recreation demands called for the estab-
lishment of a separate department
which would operate on a separate
budget. llence, cuts in school funds
would not necessarily affect the recrea-
program. now considered big
enough to strike out on its own.

In 19%, the Arlington county (le-
partment of recreation was established
by action of the Arlington county
board and placed under the guidance

tion

278

of a full-time director of recreation.

However, although education and
recreation were now two distinct de-
partments, they continued to work
closely together. Long-range planning
calls for the purchase of adjacent
school and recreation lands to provide
for fullest possible development for
sports and games. School playgrounds
are used freely by recreation groups:
recreation playing fields serve as prac-
tiee areas for school sports teams.
After sehool hours, the buildings arc
open for recreation activities for ad-
ults as well as children. under the
direction of the department of reerea-
tion.

Within the brief span of its three-
}ear existence, the department of rec-

 

"Thot community is good
which understand-s rhe impli- .
cation of its post and present
so well thot it con onticipate
the future and masterfully ad-
minister that wh-ich is aboul
to be.“—Jean ond Jess Ogden
in Small Communities in Ae-
tion.

reation has made remarkable strides.
It has acquired its first community
center building, with space for offices
and activity rooms. It has started pro-
grams for all age groups, including
clubs for older men and women. adult
classes, and pre-school activities, in
addition to continuing its existing'ac-
tivities. In 1950-51 it doubled its 1949-
50 attendanee record. lts operating
budget for 1951-52 is $229,327. It
boasts a full-time staff of fourteen.
plus part-time workers and mainten-
ance force. It is responsible for design.
construction, maintenance. and opera-
tion of all parks, playgrounds and com-
munity centers. lt has virtually achieved
the seven-point program proposed by
the community council in 1916.

llow did this come about within
such a short span of time?

How else but through the persistent
efforts of public-minded citizens and
county officials who are couviinred that
provision for recreation is an impor-
tant function of local government, and
through the effective sales promotion

of the recreation: staff in its daily
routine of doing a good job? Their
eventual achievement resultcd from un-
remitting work with civic groups, serv-
ice cluhs, women’s clubs. churches,
l’TA's, and other community organiza-
tions. ft resulted from wide-spread
awa reness of the basic need for play as
an essential factor in living, a need as
vital to adults as to their children.
And it resulted, also. from the realiza-
tion by private and community recrea-
tion groups that their own meager
funds and overworde volunteers are
insufficient to carry on a fully ade-
quate program.

But the desired goal has not been
reached.

Arlington County recently made
public a comprehensive six-year pro-
gram, not a definitive program, but
one which scts forth certain immediate
goals as way-stations on the route to
those which lie still more distant. For
the reereation department. the im-
mediate goals are the acquisition of
211 acres of land. creation of neigh-
borhood playgrounds in presently un-
served areas, and the building of a
model recreation center. During the
first years. acquired lands
would be improved by grading. instal-

newly

lation of water and sanitary conveni-
ences, planting. and construction of
picnic sites.

At present, the recreation depart-
ment owns 163 acres of parks and
playgrounds. Most of the park and
playground areas were acquired in ac-
cordance with the outline of the coun-
ty's mastcr recreation plan of 19-14.

What will Arlington's immediate
recreation program cost the taxpayer?

To buy land now. before costs rise
still further, the 3882.000 bond issue
mentioned above was brought to a
vote and passed. l'se of this money for
land purchase would leave the recrea-
tion department a capital improvement
budget of betweenSlO0,000 and $150.-
000 per year above its operating bud-
get. through 1957. in 1953. an addi-
tional 3240.000 has been tentatively
scheduled for building the model ree-
rcation center. liroken down in terms
of cost to the individUaI. this program
will cost every person in Arlington ap-
proximately Sl.2-l per year. Surely
not an exorbitant sum for recreation!

ltecnmrlov

An idea addressed to the schools, which

also applies to rccreation groups.

L

\

UNDERSTANDING
EACH OTHER

THE GREAT NEED for a broad, in-

tercultural program has been rec-
ognized by well-thinking, intelligent
people, for a long time. Where can it
hetter he initiated than in our public
schools, where children can be proper-
ly conditioned to working in intercul-
tural groups, and where they have the
opportunity to study and play with
people of many countries? In the pub-
lic school, through pleasurable experi-
ences, they have the opportunity to de-
velop the pr0per attitudes and inter-
ests, and grow up with a feeling of
comfort, ease and understanding to-
ward many peoples of the world.

Especially is such a program essen-
tial on the elementary level, for here
the groundwork is being laid for the
child’s later concepts and ideals. Herc
can the meaning of proper intercultur-
al relationships be impressed upon
him and the satisfactions to he gained
from them. Here parents are stimu-
lated to work with the school, for the
good of their own children, and for
the good of all the children, regardless
of race, color or creed.

A broad intercultural program, ably
administered, would do much toward
eliminating a child's embarrassment,
or pain, caused by others who may not
understand why a neighbor’s skin is
darker, or his hair is curlicr.

In the Classroom

One day a little girl on the play-
ground was crying bitterly. Another
child had “called her a bad name” re-
ferring to her race. Both children were
in the same room. That afternoon the
class went into the auditorium. In-
stead of the usual rhythmic period. we

had an

all-nations Inusie-and-danec-

OCTOBER 1952

Rosalee Greenfield

appreciation period.

An Indian chant was played first,
since the Indians were the first people,
of whom ‘we know, to settle in Cali-
(California was our social
studies project.) When the Indian
chant was played, several children
snickered; some laughed. Anita, an
Indian girl, was called upon to talk of
the Indian people. She explained the
meaning of the chant and told us of
the situations in which it was played.
Charles, an Indian boy, danced while
the others clapped their hands and
swayed in time with the music and
Charles5 dance movements. The teacher
told stories she had heard while visit-
ing Indian territory and Indian pueb-
los. The snickers and laughter dis-
appeared.

This episode was followed by music
from Norway, England, Spain, Swe-
den, Ireland, Germany, Hungary, Ha-
waiian Islands, China, Mexico, and in-
cluded American MacDowell’s “To a
Wild Rose” and “Witches Dance.” At
first the teacher, a former dancer, ex-
plained and interpreted the differences
and similarities of the music with
dance movements, while the children
hummed and clapped their hands.
They, then, performed rhythmic move-
ments in keeping with the music.

The children diSplayed much inter-
est and elation during this lesson and
following it. This new experience was
stimulating and worldly in sc0pe. It
embraced not only the children of their
class and school, hut their parents,
neighbors and the world!

Later, during an evaluation period,
they talked of many languages. One
child knew a few Greek words and
gave them; several children knew Cer-

fornia.

F

man words; several knew Indian
“signs”; another knew a Swedish
song; another knew how to write the
Jewish alphabet. All knew Spanish
words and songs which they had
learned during our regular class work.
Pictures were shown of costumes of
some of the peoples whose music we
had heard. Their countries were lo-
cated on our globe.

Homework was assigned and enthu-
siastically received—namely, that each
child ask his parents to teach him, and
write down, a few words, or a song or
poem of another country—the parent’s
native country, or any foreign words
they knew. The next morning the
teacher’s desk was deluged with scraps
of paper—ruled, unruled, white, wrap-
ping, note paper. They were invalu-
able. They contained words and poems
in native tongues of the parents of our
children. A French book, a Chinese
book and a Hebrew book were also
brought to class. With these came
flowers, a cut of “squash-pie-that-
looked-like-pumpkin,” homemade
fudge, a portion of cake—all offered
in silent but eloquent gratitude.

The children and their parents had
been led to a greater appreciation of
the pe0ples of the world. Parents were
led to realize that the tears of one
child may have saved the tears of
many children, possibly their own,
and may have precluded the heartache
and grief caused by humiliating re-
marks about race, color or religious
beliefs. ,

In keeping with this ideal, the chil-
dren presented a UN program to the
community. This consisted of a short
discussion of early America, of the
time when there were no beautiful
schools such as we now have, when
the early settlers struggled to retain
their freedom of Speech, and the right
to worship, each in his own way.

Then came peeple, from all over the
world, represented by the children.
These people, working together, were
the foundation and early strength of
a new powerful nation.

The children made a plea for every-
one to tell their daddies, 'mothers, and
friends that we want peace by building
a strong United Nations program.

Condensed from California Parent-Teacher,

February, 1952.
279

  
 
 
  
   
     
   
  

b‘quare dancing has mushroomed throughout Japan, is espeeialls
popular heeause of democratic form. Festivals are held often

We all respond to the beauties of
nature. Ahove lcft, Swedish ehildren,
in native costume, pause to enjoy a
view in hcautiful Laksand district.

Fishermen understand each other anv-
whcre, and how can you hate the
man beside you, fishing in the sun?
Left, Frenchmen on banks of Loire.

Expression of our dreams, our customs and our cultures starts
at early age in every land. Below. children of United States.

 

Lights of the United Nations shim
hattan. Birthday of United Nation
wide observance and greeting; to

the spirit of play knows n
man life. and happiness that we a
deeply rooted than our dillerem
art, its drama, and its literature
ing: each has its flag, the symln
eontrihntion to the whole. But 1
same."—]oseph Lee

 

 

Hiking and climbing enthusiasts are peculiar to no one country,
need only fields, woods, good company. Group In Austrian Tyrol.

We learn the rules of good sports-
manship and team spirit on our play-
ing fields. Seenc above right, shows
British sehoolboys playing erickct.

    

An aneient sport, tilting at the ring,
has been revived in several countries
including our own South. Right, play-
crs at Zecland, in the Netherlands.

Camping is dear to the hearts of all. Below, Hawaiian young-
stcrs, whose aneestry ineludes Irish, Chinese, Portugese.

   

‘11 from Secretariat Building in Man-
, is each year designated for world
s. (Sce Recipes for Fun, page 295.)

I

l boundaries. “The sources of hu-
are international, older and more
nation has its song, its games, its
approach to truth and understand—
ersonality; eaeh brings its special
3 that have whispered to us are the

(IQ

 

Tins SEMtxAR came to pass owing to the voicing of a
concern for help in the area of leadership by a number
of leaders of recreation in religious groups. The Depart-
tncnt of Recreation at Indiana University then got in
touch with other leaders for their reaction to a proposal
for an advanced training institute for recreation leaders
in these groups. A very favorable attitude was expressed
by each.

Therefore, a small group was called together at Indiana
l'nivcrsity on May 14 and 15, 1951. to discuss the project.
Members voted to hold an exploratory seminar on Recrea-
tion Through Religious Education. and immediately set
the plans for securing delegates, the items to be dis-
eusscd and the dates. Tlte seminar was held in September
1951, and the following presents a summary of the con-
elusions reached.

Some Basie Concerns

Throughout the entire seminar, points of view were
brought to the attention of all and became, after dis-
cussion, common basic concerns. They are offered here,
not as official pronouncements, but for the consideration
of gronps and organizations, to be discussed. accepted or
modified, refined, and used. It was determined that:

(ll liect‘calion is important in our total culture. It is
also very important within the religious organization and
as a resource to be used by the organization as it strives
toward its goals. Therefore, religious organizations need
the best type of recreation conduetcd by highly trained
leaders, who understand the organization and are dedi-
cated to its goals.

f2! Three of the religious faiths, Jewish. Protestant
and Catholie. could profit by moving forward together in
a cotnmon. advanced study and training program. caeh
sharing and maintaining its point of view. llecrcation is
a common area where this could be done.

Some Basic Concepts

1. llcligion embraces all things that will improve a
person's stature—spiritually. morally. physically and men-
tally.

2. liecreation is the constructive. joyful and voluntary
use of leisure time wherein the satisfactions arc gleaned
from the activity itself as well as from its productivity.

3. Recreation conceived as an activity and interest is
a resource that can be used by religions organizations to
ttccomplish its goals. which include. among other things.
satisfactory social life. relaxation, friendly competition
nnder desirable sponsorship.

1. Within a religious organization. recreation is used
for:

a. l’romotional purposes. to attract people to the or-
ganization.

282

An interfaith exploratory seminar
sponsored by Indiana University.

IlECllEA’l‘lfll

 

b. Achieving high standards of desirable fellowship.

c. Teaching cooperative living.

d. Development of high moral standards and values.
such as sportsmanship in social life and competitive acth-
leties, and so forth.

5. llccrcation has religious values per sc, without its
use as a means to an end, or as a resource.

6. llccreational activities or resources are basically a
product of the American cultural pattern, because of which
we hold these common objectives:

a. Dcvcloptncnt of individual skills.

b. Development of a sense of belonging.

c. Development of a sense of individual and group sc-
eurhy.

d. Deniocratically set standards.

c. Dcvcl0ptncnt of leadership.

f. Appreciation: of living. of life, and of God. fSue-
ccssful recreation programs through religious organiza-
tions must necessarily be person-centered and not pro-
gram-centered.)

We use these common resources:

Arts and crafts Voluntary service projects

Athletics and sports Music

Dramaties and speech Outdoor recreation—camping.
Fellowship meals and so on

Festivals and programs l’arties

Programs of national groups-v
scouting. camping. and
similar programs

Trips

around holy days and
hoHdays
Social recreation

fThis is not a complete list. but covers major common
resources used.)
7. liccreation functions through religious organizations
in the following two classifications:
a. Through a ehnrch and synagogue.
b. Through a ecttter type of program.
8. People who learn to play together can learn to pray
together.

What can religions organimliurts do to guide the indi-
vidual member in the eftniee a] recreation?

Itscmzs'nox

l‘hruugh Religiuus 0rganizations

1. Start a program of recreation in local religious group.
Participants should share in the planning, conducting and
evaluation of the program.

a. Survey the scene—goals, needs, motives, interests,
facilities, social-economic patterns, what others are doing.

b. If there are needs manifest, set the direction of the
program to meet those needs. If other agencies or groups
are meeting the needs, the religious organization-centered
individual should assume his fair share of responsibility,
thereby extending his religious influence. Organization-
ally this may imply the sharing of physical, spiritual and
educational facilities.

c. There should be planned periodic examination of
the recreation program and the community scene.

2. The religious organization, through its educational
program, has a responsibility for raising the sights or
standards of peOple so they may make a wise choice of
recreation:

a. Through personal contacts, conversation, and ad—
dresses or the sermons of religious leaders.

b. Through various existing organizations within the
religious group.

c. Through finding qualified leadership and bringing
it in for consultation in planning recreation experiences or
programs and/or conducting a good
recreation experience for the group.

d. By means of any small group
that can be motivated by volunteer
or professional leadership to move
ahcad. This may become the moti-
vating force within the entire group.

e. Through the use of audio-vis-
ual materials—demonstrations, field
trips, pictures, and so on.

f. By sharing reading material
and resourccs —— libraries, reading
lists, reviews, and so forth.

g. Through emphasis on home

 

and family relationships—-—recreation,
study, sharing.

OCTOBER 1952

 

h. By sending leaders and,’ or potential leaders to rec-
reation institutes, workshops, labs and training courses.

W hat is the relationship between community recreation.
agencies and religious organizations?

1. Municipal recreation serves as a resource to all other
community groups, provides professional leadership. works
with all groups in city-wide participation, provides demon-
stration projects and workshops.

2. The religious organization has a responsibility to
help local agencies to maintain a high standard in all pro-
grams.

3. It has a role to play in all community councils and
planning groups, neighborhood groups, and so on.

4. Each should include the use and,’or employment of
qualified and trained personnel.

5. Both work with unidentified youth, fraternities, so-
rorities, neighborhood groups.

6. Religious organizations should offer their coopera-
tion to community agencies in programs that have wide
community interest.

7. Religious organizations have the responsibility to en-
deavor, whenever possible, to work through proper exist-
ing agencies in taking care of community problems. One
of their responsibilities is to improve general community
life and living, by raising of moral insights and standards.

8. Religious groups have a major function of interpreta-
tion to their own membership in regard to community
problems.

9. Religious organizations should c00perate in develop-
mcnt of resources and leadership pools for specific com-
munity projects. There should be professional leadership
to guide, advise, lead and enable.

Curriculum Planning

The following are suggestions offered for consideration
by leadership training institutions, colleges. universities.
1. Introduce into existing courses, taken by recreation.
physical education and education majors, information re-'
garding recreation through rcligious organizations and
the relationship between religious organizations and other

283

recreation groups and agencies. lt should be the objective
here to develop a knowledge and appreciation of religious
organization’s place in recreation among all students who
may go into recreation leadership.

2. Provide an elective survey course in recreation
through religious organizations for students other than
recreation majors, to give them a full appreciation of
the field and provide basic training for volunteer work.

3. Utilize the resources of national agencies and nao
tional ehureh ofliees to aid in accomplishing the purposes
suggested in l and 2 above.

4. Encourage education and recreation students, who re-
quest or show interest in religious work, to do their field
work or “extended experience" in relation to religious
organizations.

5. Give students of religious education, in schools of
religion, certain courses in the department of recreation.
These courses might cover the following: (a) a required
comprehensive course, a survey course on recreation
through religious organizations, and (b) elective courses
involving theory and techniques of recreation and recrea-
tion leadership. '

6. Guide students in departments of recreation, who are
planning to go into recreation leadership in religious or-
ganizations, into some courses in religious education.

7. Send the findings of this seminar to seminaries and
ask them to consider seriously the possibility of providing
an orientation course in Recreation Through Religious Or-
ganizations.

A workshop for advanced recreation leaders in religious

organizations has been planned for November 4-13, 1952,
at Spring Mill lnn, Spring Mill Park, Mitchell, lndiana.
Some objectives for this type of workshop have been stated
as follows:

lntercultural sharing in the area of recreation.

Exchange of recreation ideas and methods.

Living and sharing together; fellowship.

To study what is happening to people through our indi-
vidual group programs of recreation.

To give the leader a chance to do the things in recrea-
tion he never does, to overcome “typing.”

To look at leadership training programs.

To work on methods to build total programs by starting
with specific skills.

To do a little digging along newer phases of recreation
for older adults, recreation publications, family recrea-
tion, economical (uncanncd) crafts, modern dance.

The schedule at workshop will be:

1. Long enough for those attending to share in living
experiences, a few outstanding leaders living with the
group.

2. For total groyp—addresses, panels, buzz groups, and
so on, but total group presentation not a major feature.

3. For small groups—short periods and continuing peri-
ods to work on specific problems, sharing ideas,'building
programs and reports which may be acted upon by entire
group.

4. For individuals—reercational skills in many areas
and personal consultation with leaders and other work-

shoppers.

]ljospital Bed Recreation

Tm: MOST RECENT addition to the ever-increasing recrea-
tion program in l’ekin, lllinois, is hospital room recrea-
tion service to persons who have to be confined in the
l’ekin Hospital for a long period of timc.

llospital bed handcraft activities make an otherwise dull
and uncomfortable stay in the hospital a bit more enjoy-
able and satisfying by bringing constructive pastimes to
the patients in their rooms.

While there is limited space in the hospital. each room
offers an opportunity to carry on some form of craft activi-
ty. The program includes leathcrcraft. the making of belts.
billfolds, coin purses and similar small items. ln painting,
the special kits, with paints which do not require mixing
and can be. applied to the picture without a great deal of
fuss and bother, are used. Other craft possibilities are the
evercpopular shell craft. a caving and cork craft.

To be practical. the craft projects must require small

 

"ARM-2V MATICKA is superintendent n/ rerrmlion in I’ekin.

231

Barney B. Maticka

work surface, must be clean, easy to work with, time-con-
suming and economical. Most patients with hospital bills to
pay won't participate in expensive projects. ln working
with children in the wards, inexpensive projects are usual-
ly preferred. llowcver, patients frequently make one item
and find themselves “in the business," making the same for
nurses and visitors.

So far, the men patients have enjoyed and asked for the
leather projects. such as leather link belts, hillfolds and
coin purses, that need only lacing and no tooling.

The women patients have preferred oil painting; while
the children love the popular gimp lacing projects and
making braeelcts. One boy used the gimp to make. for his
nurses, several handles for summer plastic purses.

Storytelling, in children's wards, is another phase of our
hospital recreation. Storytelling aids in stopping the chil-
dren's restlessness during the long hours with “nothing to
do." it helps them to take. their minds “oll the1m~elves.u
away from their aehes and pains. thus making their stay
more enjoyable and facilitating the processes of recovery.

It [CREATION

Games and activities to liven up those
teen gatherings —in community cen-
ters, Y’s, service clubs or anywhere.

TEEN ACTIVITIES

IIETHER YOU HAVE time to plan ahead, or whether your
‘v suddenly find yourself with a score or more of ener-
getic teen-agers on your hands, who want to “do some-
thing,” a varied repertoire of games, stunts and group
activities will turn the minutes and hours into fun for
everyone, including the leader.

Conscquential Darts

This game will take some planning ahead, but it is
guaranteed to make the party a success. Compile a num-
bered list of consequences, all kinds of funny and ridicu-
lous stunts. Then, make a dart target, dividing it into
squares or circles with corresponding numbers. When a
player’s dart strikes a number on the target, he must per-
form the corresponding consequence. There is no limit to
the hilarious consequences which can be planned—reminis-
cent of the childhood game, “Heavy, Heavy What Hangs
Over Thy Head.” Alternate directions should be assigncd
any number designating action which would be funny if
done only by a boy, or girl. Small prizes can be given for
clcver, good natured pcrformance of consequences.

Dart Baseball

Another game with darts, appealing to teen-agers as
well as adults, is dart baseball. Many communities have
activc leagues, with a highly competitivc scrics of games
and tournaments. However, it is also a game which can
bc playcd on the Spur of the moment by any group, seven
to ninc players on a tcam. If your community center does
not have a dart bascball board, you can make one, drawing
thc target areas which count for home run, strike, ball,
and so on. Commcrcial dart boards of all kinds (with
rules included) may be obtaincd through a local dcalcr.

Opposites

Two players at a time play this gamc for thc bcnefit of
thosc watching. Thc players sit on chairs, facing one an-
otllcr. Each wears a hat. Onc of them goes through any
action which occurs to him—removing hat, bowing head,
standing, pointing—all thc while asking questions of the
olhcr. Thc second player must answer the rapidly fired
questions while pcrforming actions opposite to those of thc

OCTOBER 1952

first player. As the natural reaction is to do the same
thing as the other player, the results can be highly amus-
ing, especially when some member of the audience has
said it ought to be easy and on his turn becomes just as
confused as the other players.

Ping-Pong Baseball

At the Woodstock (Vermont) Community Recreation
Center, a group of teen-age boys created ping-pong base-
ball, when their grounds and building were being repaired
and they needed a game for a small area. Lay out any

finest In The World
for The World‘s

Greatest Athletes

“trustee”, I'll! rurtsr In m: Fift0!
{at i ladle. tun col-eel" e el. Lean I '

 

285

(-mnparatisely level space in the shape of a baseball (lia-
mond. with ten-foot base litres and the pitcher's mound
twelye feet frmn home plate. Teams may base from two
to nine players. Follow informal baseball rules. except that
a man is out if hit by a ball unless he is on base. The pitch
is overhand. l'se old ping-pong balls and paddles. Play
indoors or out.

Cassi p

Everyone forms a circle, except several players who are
sent from the room. One of the remaining players is named
to tell a story to those sitting in the eirele. This story may
be. anything which the player makes up. but he tells it
with very definite gestures. For instance, he may say some-
thing like this: "I was standing at the corner of Main and
Oak early this morning waiting for the traflie to pass.
{Turns head from side to side as though watching passing
ears.) l was still sleepy, and l was yawning and stretching
:yawns and stretches) when a crash behind me made me
leap ten feet into the air. (Gives startled jump.) l looked
around and about fifty feet away on Oak Street I saw two
cars that had crashed. tl.ooks horrified.) I went over and
there didn't seem to he anyone in either car. (Takes a few
steps, stops in amazement.) l heard feet running away
' and so on, until a story is com-

from the scene, but . . .
pleted. Then, one of the players from outside is brought
in, and the story is re-told to him, but without gestures.
The second player then tells the story to the eircle, with his
own idea of gestures. The third player is called in and told

 

  

OSBORN OFFERS YOU . . .
IIG ILLUSTRATED SUPPLY FOLDER

Shows

belts. bags, purses, cigarette cases
hundreds of other items.

"CAMP SPECIAL" MOCCASIN

Genuine leather with composi-
tion sales. All sizes for all ages.

Ideal for the beach. in the
woods. alang paths and far
lounging.
Pee Pair—$3.95
($3.55 in l2 pair lots)

*OI-PAOE LEATHERCIAF‘I’ SUPPLY CATALOG—ONLY 25c

   

many easy-ta-make camp pralects
ready to put together, such as beautiful
and

 

illuelrales all types a! mace-sins end leather items of In»

booln for handicraft purposes. etc. .\'a espcrience needed.

  
   

OSBORN BIOS. SUPPLY CO.,
221 W. Jackson Ited.. Chleago 6. It].

I
l
| Please Mb 3“ Free
I

 

 

Illustrated Supply Folder;
1", Idea-peeked U—‘l-plln Lentliercrelt Supplies
Cit-log for which I enclose 25a in min.
Issues...“ __
’l ADDRESS. -- _ _ ..
A [CITY STATE

|.___________._._.______

teresl at summer camps. modeling tools. lectngs, instruction

. CLIP hND MAIL NOW!

‘

the story. without gestures. The third player then re-tells
the story. using his own gestures. and then calls in the
next player, and so on. The interest lies in seeing how
wry different the story may finally be, after passing
through the hands of several players.

Movie

lf someone in the group owns a movie camera, a won-
derful time can result if everyone cooperates to make a
movie. One, or several, persons should be assigned the job
of preparing a plot and dialogue. The old standby melo-
drama plots are probably easiest to use. Then, on a sunny
afternoon, perhaps on a picnie, make the movie. There
should be several crowd scenes, and as many “roles” as
possible. No matter how earefully thought out it may be,
unexpected moments will happen, and be recorded on
the film. Later, when it is developed and shown to the

group [an excuse for another get-together), everyone is

likely to laugh till sides are aching. at the ludicrous re-
sults of serious efforts. If thirty-five or forty persons par-
ticipate and the eost is divided among them, this is an
inexpensive way to have a hilarious good time. But he
sure that everyone understands, to avoid any unhappy or
hurt feelings, that it is not only possible, but probable, that
efforts will be viewed with howling laughter.

Circle Conversation

Ladies form an outside circle; men, inside. .\len march
one way and the ladies the other. When a whistle hlows or
some signal is given, each faces the person opposite him
in the other circle, shakes hands, introduces himself and
then continues to talk incessantly, regardless of what his
partner may be saying. The talk continues without a break
until the whistle blows and the music starts again. When
the musie resumes, all faee right and continne marehing
as hefore. '

Special Dances

So much has been written on square dancing lately that
it might almost seem other forms are on their way out.
The fact is, however, that most social dancing requires
the usual ballroom steps, and it is unfortunate that much
enjoyment is lost because of unskillfnl dancing. A series
of teen-age dances, eaeh dance. planned to feature one
step—the waltz. tango, aml so onhwill meet with real
approval. Since each of the ballroom steps has developed
from a folk tradition, it would be logical to plan a party
with a special flavor—«of Latin America, Vienna. or what-
ever country or loeality originated the dance. lnstruction,
during the early part of the evening. will serve to enhanee
individual skill, and give the beginners a chance to get
into things without feeling conspieuous. One reason the
square dances are so much fun is that a caller draws the
whole thing together, there are definite steps to take. and
the result is satisfying. The more formal type of dancing
also offers a Wide range of party Opportunities, if properly
planned. By selecting a theme and carrying it through with
appropriate decorations and a few novelty dances or social
mixers. an average danee becomes a special one.

ltecam'rtox

 

7amt‘ew ignite a; 76m

LAMON STREET PARK in Fayetteville, North Carolina,
consists of fourteen acres of land, on which is consoli-
dated as much activity as possible. In the upper left-hand
corner is the pool where the inhabitants of Fayetteville,
young and old, can keep cool during the hot summer days.
For beginners, there are learn-to-swim classes, Red Cross
life saving and water safety. Various swimming events,
water basketball, pageants, and so on, are held here.

Next to the pool is the children’s play area, with sand-
hoxes, swings and other playground equipment. In the rec-
reation center, located in a clump of trees near the pool.
are meeting rooms, free movies, a museum and dressing
rooms. Next to the house is a small zoo, consisting of vari-
ous small animals—goats, rabbits, a skunk, possums, rac-
coons, hohcat, ducks, white mice, flying squirrel and
guinea pigs. Near this area there are several horseshoe
courts.

Next to the recreation center is a paved tennis court. The
plan is to build three more in the near future. Right behind
the house note a chipping area, where a golfer may prac-
tice his chip shots. To the right of the center, is a baseball
field, which is used by the high school teams: it is very

Challenger, SELWYN ORCUTT, is superintendent of the de-
partment of recreation and parks in Fayetteville, N. C.

OCTOBER 1952

‘4!

— A (Il-IALLENGE —

Selwyn Orcutt

fast drying and has an exceptionally good surface. Above
the baseball field is an area where the children had their
victory gardens and tried their hands at growing vegetables
and flowers with marked success.

In the center of the picture is a picnic area, which will
accommodate large parties; there are three outdoor fire-
places and the area can accommodate both night and day
parties.

In the lower part of the picture is the recently completed
quarter-mile track, where the high school track team is
coached, and where other activities are being planned, such
as county-wide track meets. On this field, model airplane
club meetings are held, and the Southeastern District Model
Airplane Championships were conducted here last year.

On the left-hand side of the picture are two softball
fields, lighted, which are used not only by the men’s soft-
ball teams, but for midget baseball and county softball
games as well. Between these tWo diamonds is the field
which is used for midget football. This has also hcen used
several times for Easter egg hunts, pet shows. bicycle
rodeos.

W e have twenty-three activities on these fourteen acres
of ground and we challenge any community to do better
on the same size area. (If you can, let us hear about it.

— -Ed.)
287

The Importance

of c 0 01)
P UBLIC RELA TIONS

RECREATION, today, has become an
important part of the lives of all
Americans, contributing to our char-
acter growth, and helping us become
much healthier in mind and body and
happier in mind and spirit. The proof
of the old saying, “All work and no
play makes .lack a dull boy,” has been
demonstrated a thousand times over.
And to those of us who live in New
England, recreation is especially im-
portant, because millions of Americans
begin to cast their eyes in our direc-
tion as they make plans for their sum-
mer vacations. This year, I am told,
the recreation industry in New Eng-
land should draw at least one billion
dollars in tourist trade. This is big
business in any field—business that
all of us should be interested in pro-
tecting through good public relations.
A public relations program, to be
cllectivc, must reach many dillerent
groups, including governmental and
public bodies, school authorities,
church and religious organizations,
civic organizations, social welfare
agencies, fraternal orders, business and
industry groups, labor organizations,
women's organizations, nationality and
raeial groups, music, drama and art
groups, neighborhood associations, so-
eial clubs, veterans’ organizations. and
many others. Obviously, this cannot be

 

Mn. ll. l'i. Bnows is assistant manager,
advertising and publicity department.
Aetna Life Adiliaterl Cornpnnies.

238

R. E. Brown, Jr.

done with one medium, or during any
“overnight” period.

Many people think of public rela-
tions in terms of publicity. They are
inclined to measure the cllectiveness of
any program by the columns of space
which the editors of their local news-
papers give them. Of course, newspa-
per publicity is very important and the
value of building and maintaining
good contacts with your local news-
paper editors and reporters cannot be
overcmphasized. Good publicity in
your newspapers can keep the public
informed of your activities, help sus-
tain interest in your programs, clear
up misunderstandings, change unfao
vorable attitudes, win support for leg-
islativc changes in which you are in-
terested, can do much to strengthen
the position of your department. it is
essential, therefore, that in organizing
a public relations program for your
department, adequate provisions be
made for keeping your local newspa-
pers well informed.

ln this connection, if you do not al-
ready have a copy of the pamphlet.
Publicity for Recreation, which can
be obtained for twenty-five cents from
the National llecreation Association,
let me urge that you get one right
away. This pamphlet outlines in con-
siderable detail numerous ideas that
you can use for obtaining newspaper
publicity and, in addition, gives you
many helpful hints on how to prepare
this material for best acceptance in
your local newspaper ofliccs.

Remember, too, that newspaper rc-
porters and editors are trained to keep
their fingers on the public’s pulse—to
know at all times what the public is
thinking. For this reason, one of your
most important dutics should be to
maintain a friendly relationship with
your local editors and reporters at all
times. To do so not only may help you
in your ellorts to get newspaper pub-
licity but through these editors and re-
porters, you can obtain many valuable
comments and suggestions, reflecting
the public’s attitude, which should help
you do a better, more eflicient job—a
job for which you probably will re-
ceive more public appreciation.

But please be careful. Assuming
that you are successful in getting good
newspaper cooperation, do not be
lulled into a false sense of security.
Do not think that simply because you
have been getting some good publicity
in the local press your public relations
program must be good. For good pub-
lic relations covers a much broader
field than newspaper publicity alone;
good public relations involves every
activity of your department.

As Arthur S. Hodgkiss, exccutive
oflicer on the stall of Robert Moses.
commissioner of the department of
parks of the city of New York, has
said, “Sound public relations should
begin with your own employees, who
are your most direct contact with the
public.” lle says they should be uni-
formed, clean and courteous at all
times. “The best way to insure good
public relations,” says Mr. llodgkiss,
“is to have satisfied public park pa-
trons through wellodesigned, clean and
inviting park facilities and good serv-
ice. Dirty parks irritate the public and
invite just and sometimes bitter criti-
cism."

Milo F. Christiansen, superintend-
ent of recreation for the government
of the District of Columbia, puts it an-
other way. llc says, "Although there
are two employees on the stall of our
public relations sections. we constant-
ly emphasize that every member of the
stall plays a part in public relations.
The directors and assistants on the
playgrounds and in recreation centers,
for example, are in an execllcnt posi-
tion —-through personal contacts—to
acquaint the neighborhood residents,

RECREATION

merchants and civic-minded people
with the workings of the department;

and they are urged not only to make

these contacts but to keep them cur-
rent. in addition, they are in constant
and almost daily contact with the press
and radio stations.”

How about your own public rela-
tions program? Undoubtedly your ma-
jor events—the outstanding musical
concerts, swimming meets, tennis tour-
naments, track meets, special celebra-
tions, and so on—already are receiv-
ing their fair share of publicity', not
only in the local press, and on your
radio and television stations, but also
through the distribution of letters.
folders, posters and other advertising
media. But what about some of your

 

Talk delivered at New
England District Recrea-
tion Conference, 1952.

 

less spectacular, more routine activi-
ties?

For example, how easy is it for an
individual in your community to ob-
tain a permit for one of your tennis
courts or for one of your outdoor fire-
places? ls it possible that even on
such comparatively simple requests as
these, you have an involved routine
which is irritating many peeplc? Could
it be that your present prescribed pro-
cedurc is discouraging some people
from using these facilities?

What about the signs in your parks
and recreation areas? Are they placed
at the best possible locations, where
they can be seen and easily read? Are
they neat and attractive, or dirty and
shoddy? What about your warning or
restrictive signs? Are they politely
worded, to invite willing c00peration,
or do they demand grudging ohcdi-
cnce? Believe me, this is all a part of
your over-all public relations program.

How about your rest rooms? Are
they “just what you would expect to
find in a public park?” Or are they
“the cleanest public rest rooms in the
state?” Don’t forget that one of the
biggest industries in the country—— the
gasoline and oil industry—investml
many hundreds of thousands of dollars

nr'rnmrn lQR‘)

in improvements for its rest rooms,
and received in return, and is still re-
ceiving, dividends of incalculable value
in both public good will and increased
business.

How courteous are your park attend-
ants? Are they tactful in handling visi-
tors, yet, at the same time, fully capa-
ble of dealing with vandals, molesters
and other undesirable characters? How
safety conscious are they? Do they al-
ways have a watchful eye open for
possible accident hazards? Surely the
prevention of accidents is one of your
most important public relations assign-
ments, because one serious accident in-
volving a child—an accident which
might have been prevented—could tear
down and destroy in one minute more
good will than all your efforts could
build up in a year’s time.

In this connection, may I call your
attention to the safety educational films
available free from The Affiliated Aet-
na Life Companies, Hartford, Connec-
ticut. These have been prepared under
the guidance of recognized authorities,
and deal with safety in relation to ski-
ing, swimming, hunting, fishing, boat-
ing, cycling, conservation, driving, and
so on, covering twenty-one subjects.
Catalogues may be obtained upon re-
quest. All of these films are 16mm and
are made with sound.

Does your department have a book-
let showing the location of all the
parks in your area and describing the
facilities available at each? A booklet
of this type would be welcomed, 1 am
sure, by numerous organizations, in-
cluding the YMCA, YWCA, Chamber
of Commerce, Welcome Wagon Serv-
iec, local newspapers, and many others.
Even your local hotels probably would
like copies, for the benefit of strangers
in the connnunity.

A booklet of this type would be espe-
cially valuable in areas where an army
camp or naval training station is lo-
catcd. The thousands of young men,
and Wacs and Waves, too, in these
camps need all of the recreational
facilities which you can offer. So if
you have a camp or naval station in
your territory, do not overlook the
wonderful opportunity this affords for
rendering an important public service.
And remember, too, that recreational
events, designed especially for these

men and women in service, should be
a regular part of your program.

At the same time, do not overlook,
or forget, the mothers and fathers, the
wives and children, who have been left
behind by the servicemen from your
own area. These folks, also, are facing
new problems and need now, more
than ever, the mental and physical
stabilizing assistance which you and
your department can provide. In fact,
you probably will never have a better i
opportunity for public service, and for
building public good will, than the
present situation affords.

The points I have mentioned are not
brand new to you; and I know full
well that some of you undoubtedly are
doing an outstanding job of public re-
lations already. But sometimes, even
when we think we are in the best of
health, a physical check-up is advis-
able. So consider my remarks, if you
will, as a form of check-up—as a re-
minder to you of some of the things
you could be doing, or should be do-
ing. And remember always that good
public relations must be based on a
sound policy of continuing Operation,
involving everything from the voice on
your office telephone and the wording
of your simplest letters to your han-
dling of the most important public
events. Success calls for constant effort
—for the practice of common sense
rules of judgment and tact by each and
every member of your department, day
in and day out. Then, and only then,
can you be sure of receiving the full
measure of appreciation from the pub-
lic which your job deserves.

#

SHOW’ \VAGON

ln Omaha, Nebraska, a new show
wagon visits the city’s playgrounds to
give dramatic and variety shows. This
mobile stage is in a specially-built van,
fifteen feet long and seven feet wide.
One side dr0ps down to increase the
stage area. Special wiring permits“
lighting by plugging into a regular
outlet or by using the truck’s porta-
ble generator. Costing over four thou-
sand dollars, it was presented to the
children of Omaha by the World-
Hcrald Good Fellows Charities, incor-
porated, and was turned over to the
park and recreation department.

920

How the recreation department of Opclika, Alabama (population 12,500) started
planning early, brought Christmas cheer into every home on Christmas Eve.

"/4 @5556 as 556 Window -—

3

NZ
1

\
5

p

\

% ol the Coming Christ-

mas season began to appear, I in-
quired, locally, about a group with
whom to go caroling on Christmas
Eve. l'pon learning that only a low
groups lollowed this ancient tradition
lrom year to year. on an inlormal ba-
sis. it occurred to me that it might be
a wonderful idea for the department
ol recreation to sponsor and coordi-

When the first signs

nate a city-wide carol program.

With the support ol the "man on
the street." the ball began to roll. A
“Dutch” lunehcon was held early in
\‘orember with a group ol Opelika
ministers and Ch ic leaders. to hear the
suggested program outlined by the
recreation director. .Mso attending this
first meeting were representatives ol
the local newspaper and radio station.

The following is a. summary ol the
planning. organization. mechanics ol
operation and results attained.

The objectives ol the proposed eity.
wide earol program as lirst presented
were:

I. To provide an opportunity lor
organized groups to participate in a
coordinated program ol carol singing.

2. lo ereate a true Christmas spirit
at a time when it will mean the most
to the most pe0ple.

 

Carola "ILL Cttdlol \ is the director
of recreation, Updike. *llolnmun.

290

 

3. To contribute a valuable com-

munity service and allord a genuine
lorm ol wholesome recreation [or all
participants.
. 4. To meet an emergency welfare
need lor those citizens and lamilies ol
Opelika who have met with unfortunate
circumstances which merit their com-
munity’s assistance.

5. To provide every Opelika lamin
group. especially the children, the priv-
ilege ol enjoying the Christmas tradi-
tion of carol singing on Christmas
Eve.

The group then asked many ques-
tions. and several matters ol poliey
were discussed. Finally. the program
was ollieially adopted by this steering
eonnnittce: lull support was promised
by each represented organization and
it was voted that cash gills to benefit
a Christmas Welfare Fund be admin-
istered by the Opelika Ministerial As-
sociation. lor emergency
throughout the year 1952.

It was pointed out that the building
ol a wellare lund was the least im-

needs

portant ol the objeetives. but that
everyone would enjoy the privilege ol
giting on Christmas l‘ive and would
leel he had taken a part ill the real
meaning of Christmas.

In the lirst newspaper release the
program was called "A Candle In The

Window A Carol At The

sponsored by the department ol Ierrea.

llunr.“

\V. J. Calhoun

tion and the chamber of commerce in
cooperation with the churches ol Opel
ika.

Since most ol the carol groups were
to eome lrom Sunday school classes. a
meeting was held with the ministers
to divide the city into seven areas.
The areas were assigned to churches in
proportion to their membership. Each
area was then divided into sections
of approximately four city blocks,
with the use ol city maps, it being
estimated that each carol group eonld
cover this siZe area during the desig
nated hours ol six-thirty to eight-thirty
in the evening.

While this organization was taking
plaee. church school departments, Boy
Scout and Girl Scout troOps were
adopting the program. voluntarily. as
their December project. This was an
indication ol splendid radio and press
coverage along with one hundred per
cent eonnnunity support and interest.

Not lorgctting the other phase ol
the carol program. every medium ol
publicity was used to llllnl‘lll lamilies
in the homes ol their responsibility.
All were told that a candle in the win-
dow would bring a carol to their door.

When the area chairmen had lin-
ished their work. over thirty earol
grotips ol ten or more earolers were
eagerly awaiting the "go" signal. l'iaeh
group was supplied with lapel ribhnns.
gilt limes and carol song sheets.

R Ecnmrtos

Groups of every age participated, in-
cluding small children attired in their
choir rohes, carrying candles of their
own, every. minister and the mayor.

The program was oflicially opened
at six pm. with the songs of one
group, singing from the steps of a
downtown church, amplified through
dome speakers and heard throughout
the city.

Thereupon the stage was set, and
promptly at six-thirty p.1n. the thirty
groups embarked upon their tours.
Without exception, every caroler was
filled with true Christmas spirit—ma
spirit of joy, and of happiness at the
opportunity of bringing this same
spirit into every home visited.

As a group would approach a home
with a carol, their way lighted by Ian-
tern or flashlight, they were amazed
at their reception. Little children in
pajamas had been waiting for an hour,
noses flattened against the window
panes which reflected twinkling can~
dles. This was an “engraved invita-
tion” to the carolers. After the first
carol, the children would rush to the
door to offer their gift, then, with
Mothcr and Dad, would join the trou-
badours in a second carol. Usually, it
was difficult for a carol group to leave
a home, bccause the family would in-
sist on serving Christmas cookies and
candy, and in some cases a bullet of
refreshments had been prepared. This
same story was being enacted in hup-
dreds of homes and, as the two hours
of caroling progressed, one could sense
an atmosphere of good will toward
men cnveloping the city.

All around town there were various
types of candle displays in windows,
some simple and some elaborate; hut
regardless, this was proof enough thc
entire connnunity had joined us in
this festive tradition of carols on
Christmas Eve.

By cight-thirty the carolers were re-
turning to a central church for reports
and refreshmcnts. Fun started all over
again as the evening’s experiences were
exchangcd hetween groups. “We werc
the second group to visit Mrs. What-
ley.” “Our group was small so we got
several to join us from the homes we
visitcd.” “We sang five carols and they
still didn’t come to thc door.” “One
lady thought our gift hox was a pres-

nr'rnmrn 103‘)

ent we had brought, so she took it,
thanked us and then shut the door.”
“One family just insisted we sing
every carol on the shect.”

The only unfortunate aspect of the
program was that a number of fam-
ilies had made elaborate plans for the
carolers” visit and were very disap-
pointed when a group failed to appear.
This was most disheartening to the
children who had special permission
to stay up a little later than usual. A

 

was successful; a needed welfare fund
was established, the two hundred fifty
carolers enjoyed several hours of fun
and fellowship, and those in homes
visited felt the presence of a true
Christmas spirit~——particularly the chil-
dren.

When the last carol had been sung,
an estimated ninety per cent of the
population had participated in the city-
wide community program.

The total cost of the program was

Effective posters aroused community support. Every publicity medium was used.

solution to this problem will be the
addition of more groups and a clearcr
understanding of areas to be visited.

Even though there was littlc empha-
sis plaecd on thc monetary gifts, there
was a healthy competition hetween
groups as the money from the gift
boxes was, counted. Of course, no
prizes were offered, but it was inter-
esting to obscrve some of the remarks
concerning amounts collected. From
every standpoint, the earol program

less than one hundred dollars, with
gifts collected amounting to four hun-
dred twenty dollars and twcnty-six
cents. These were turned over to the
Opelika Ministerial Association for the
Christmas Welfare Fund.

Now we are making plans and look-
ing forward to our second annual “A

Candle In The Window—FA Carol At
The Door” for Christmas Eve, 1952.

“Carol, brother, carol—~—
Christmas comcs again.”

Book \Veek Materials

"Reoding Is Fun” will be the slogon for Book Week, November sixteen to twenty-two.
This year's full-color posters ore ovoiloble ot thirty-five cents eoch, with reductions on

quantity orders. Four teaser-streamers, with the slogan, “Reoding ls Fun,” have been de-
signed in two goy colors. The omusing designs cost thirty cents for the set of four.

Other moteriols include full-color bookmarks; “Con You Guess These Stories,” o picture-
quiz game; two new recordings, “Some of My Best Friends Are Books" and "Children and

Poetry.” Write for tree monuol describing all Book Week moteriol and complete order-form
to the Children's Book Week Council, 50 West 53rd Street, New York 19, New York.

 

291

 

:.=

How To Do \TQ bjfmwlé’fgoé

Plan [an ar1~s and. cra‘Hs room.
«(f/g,

  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 

MOVEABLE EQUlPMENT

Leaderlr 7525/8 3&5’

Work Tab/93 337'
/I7d/'U/0’aa/ C hairs

STATIONARY EQUIPMENT
Wa// 56/706 es-cupboara’s

and drawers

Ex/vlb/V/bn and

     
      

5f0rage 5,000?
750/ 50a ra’
5/}7k
Rack
B/acfboara’
Drop liq/#5
‘ CROSS SECTION
('007‘ and A q 0 F
/7’a,/ Rack 9 “$90 , ’ WALL
Ba//ef/'n 50a rds V  BENCH
We?” 10/5195 / V—j

LIST OF TOOLS FOR GENERAL USE "'-

Hammers— Saws, ripana crosscui — Coping Saws— Hock Saws— Hand DriHs—
Screw Driuers— Chise|s—MalleTs-Rulers-Scissors-Bench Pins-C (lumps-Vises-

Tin 3n'1p3—Pliers- Files,“th half round , ra+-1aiI-lce PI'cks—Brushes-Kniues—
Planes— Pans, amaH and large -5quares — Paper Punches-HOT Pla1€ .

SPECIAL TOOLS -

5pecial +ool3 wilI be needed $or- Lea1her -Me’ta|- PoHerq -P|as’ric -Meia|
and Wood 51enci||inq~Weauinq~Caruinq -Jewe\rg-Te;dile Pain’rinq and Riding.

3‘11! . RECREATION

Josephine lilaeksteek Retires

The Story of a Recreation Career

Thirty-one years ago last June the first playground in
the village of Oak Park, Illinois, came into being. It had
been paid for through funds that Cicero owed Oak Park,
and its playing field was an uprooted half-acre where the
fire department had planted vegetables and flower beds.
Perhaps this was a happy omen, because soon came an-
other happy blooming—the sounds of children playing,
running steps, laughter.

From these roots grew a playground system that was
to become one of the best known in the Middle West. The
following year, two other sites were purchased, and a while
later, another two.

The Oak Park playgrounds won many honors in those
years to come, and pioneered in many experiments. To
Miss Josephine Blackstock, director, who resigned this
summer, closing thirty-one years of service with the play-
grounds, goes much of the credit for these accomplish-
ments. As far as the program has been concerned, people
have said, “She was the playgrounds;” but in those early
days two other persons contributed markedly. They were
Dr. Harry Stewart, chairman of the board, and Andrew
Walters, superintendent of maintenance.

This trio laid the solid foundations. The playgrounds
were to be landscaped first; they were to provide, for the
children’s activities, play homes that were to be creative
in form, not institutions. A great _hue and cry rose from
other cities—impossiblc to make flowers grow where chil-
dren are playing; they’ll pick them, destroy them. But
they didn’t. The trio proved a point—-—that children love
what is beautiful, and, given encouragement, will cherish
it. When Eugcne Field won second place in a contest,
sponsored by the National Recreation Association, for the
most beautiful playgrounds in America, that was the an-
swer. Loving and skillful Custodian Bill Ingle’s green
thumb had made the playground blossom, as had Frank
Grady’s at Carroll; thc children had begun to cherish
thcir playgrounds.

And there werc other firsts. The architectural contest
for plans for play ccntcrs was onc. Among the entries was
a kinder-symphonies, submitted by Frank Lloyd Wright,

OCTOBER 1952

 

Josephine Blackstock

one of America’s outstanding architects, and a former
resident of the village. The play board had insufficient
funds to carry out his plan, but onc of Mr. Wright’s stu-
dents, John Vanbergen, also an Oak Parker, won first
place. When the five buildings, with their informal and
appealing layout, were finished, visitors came from thirty-
five states to see them, and inquiries were received from
such faraway places as England and Australia.

But the program was the thing. What activities would
appeal to the creative instincts of the boys and girls? Dra-
matics, dancing, storytelling, handcrafts, pre-schools, as
well as athletics and games. A child grows not only physi-
cally, but emotionally and mentally as well; he grows as
hc is exposed to a creative atmosphere.

The Oak Park playgrounds began to win a national
name for their dramatics. The terraced slopes at Field and
Carroll became the backgrounds for play after play that
Miss Blackstock had written. James Nohava, at Stevenson,
used his manual skill in making many of the sets and
properties. Out of the entire Middle West, it was the Oak
Park playgrounds that were chosen to demonstrate out-of-
door dramatics when two distinguished college teachers
from England came here to study recreation in America.

Thirteen years ago, Miss Lilly Ruth Hanson was added
to the staff as dramatic director, and five hundred children
a year began to pass through her trained and sympathetic
hands. Attesting to her skill is the fact that when, this
year, dramatics at Oak Park High were given school credit,
the twelve boys and girls chosen were all members of Miss
Hanson’s Stevenson Players.

And there were other accomplishments. The Oak Park
playgrounds took first place in the United States govern-
ment-sponsored scrap lumber handcraft contest. The boy
who won it, with a wood carving project, went to.Wash-
ington and was received by President Hoover. Athletics
were given full attention—-—the national horseshoe cham-

293

pion had received all his training at llans Andersen l’lay-
ground; the winner of the state half-mile eame from Ste-
\cnson. The boy s. band. with Harry Dowse as conductor.
was chosen to play for the Springfield lxgislaturc, with
Jame- llcv as first chief. The Junior l’nlice n ere organized.
and have continued to sen c for twenty-five years. Dane-
ing began to take on impetus when Miss Ann Aigris, a
stall member of l’avley -Ouljranski Ballet. taught her classes
at Stevenson. and wrought miracles with clumsy, unco-
ordinated little girls. Later, one of her pupils was offered
a job as head of a large dance school in the state. Some
eleven years ago. Mrs. liuth Wiggs took over as dancc
director, aml to the dramatic festivals since then, there
have been added lovely dance routines, with Miss Anne
Peterson. playground pianist. contributing her musical
skill.

Keep the program fluid, open, growing—that was Miss
lilackstock's objective. It was she who renamed the play-
grounds after the world’s live outstanding writers of chil-
drcn's stories—Hans Andersen, llobert Louis Stevenson,
Eugene Field, James Barrie and Lewis Carroll. From Sir
James Barrie came a letter thanking her for the honor;
and the play, written especially for the Opening exercises
at Barrie, hit a high spot in the dramatic history of the
playgrounds. Miss lilackstock continued to write most of
the major outdoor festivals, but that did not seem enough;
for years she ran a playground newspaper, and a class in
story and play writing for older boys and girls.

Time went on, and the program was expanded. Thirteen
years ago, the prc-schools were started at Miss Blackstock's
instigation. Under trained kindergarten teachers, they have
won national renown; recently the Midwest representative
of the National Recreation Association declared the system
to be the finest in the district. Literally thousands of chil-
dren have received their first introduction to education in
these schools, and to Miss Blackstock they remain, with the
plays she has written. her outstanding contribution to the
Oak l'ark playgrounds.

The activities in Oak Park have been given widc recog-
nition. Only once, during thirty-one years, at the National
llecreation Congress was Miss Blackstock’s name omitted
from the list of leaders. Oak Park playgrounds were ex-
perimenting. and the country wanted to hear abont it. To
{)0}: Lcares. she owes an unpayable debt for its consistent
publicizing of the playground activities. She has not missed
tnelve times in these thirty-one years in writing a weekly

article for the journal. The suburban editor of the Chicago
Tribune stated that the best publicity he received came
from the Oak Park playgrounds. lit-ZCltl-IATIOV magazine
has published many of her articles on play.

The Tribune listed her name last year as one of the out-
standing womcn in the state. and the Chicago Sun-Tina's
gave her the same distinction. One summer, in her spare
time, Miss Blackstock taught social recreation at the Uni-
versity of Chicago, and it was owing to the record she had
made in Oak Park that she was selected as “the outstand-
ing woman in recreation in the Middle West,” to direct
“Enchanted Island” at A Century of Progress. She has
dramatized many of her books for children. for playground
plays. and just last winter. at the festival held yearly at
the high school, they dramatized Songs for Sixpence,
her latest book, which will be published this fall by Wilcox-
Follctt.

In looking back over the long years, though, Miss Black-
stock says that one of the features she has most enjoyed
has been her association with the many adult groups in the
village. Miss Blackstock organized the first women's club
connected with the playgrounds. llans Andersen Nabors,
some twenty-five years ago. There followed many others—
Eugene Field Woman’s Club, Barrie Club, and the five
prc-school mothers' clubs which have contributed so great-
ly to the welfare of the program.

She says she is indebted to the consistent cooperation
given her by the playground board, composed of Mr. Ce-
rard Serritclla, chairman, Mr. Frank Ogdon, Mr. Walter
Wessman and Mr. Harold McCrath: and she feels warm
gratitude for the staff that has supported her work. She
is of the opinion that the boys and girls of the village are
the finest in the world.

“I have always loved children," Miss Blackstock says.
“I think that the one chance of perfectibility of the human
race lies in them . . . I still think we, as adults, are missing
many golden chances to encourage the creative urgcs with
which they are born. l have tried, through the pre-schools,
the plays and the storytelling classes. to give them an op-
portunity to express themselves, their interests aml their
dreams. aml to provide an outlet for their skills. The
four- and five-year-olds are often poets, as witness the little
girl who said one day, looking up at the sky, "The clouds
are the horses of the wind.’

“It is not work. doing what you want to do: it is a
kind of play."

 

Foreign Books for (‘hlldren
Dorothy Barclay

When a youngster listens to a story about a child in
another land whose name sounds strange. but whose life
and thoughts are very much like his own. that child has
made a first step toward international understanding.
When. along with hearing the story. he is able to look at
the original foreign book, sec unrecognizable wortlsw-fre-
rplcntly in unfamiliar ty )c- —and observe illustrations with
a different flavor from tlose he is used to. his cXperienec
is even further expanded.

The lntcrnational Committee of the Children's Library

(‘nndrnml from The New York Times. Annual 9, l932.

2‘) 1

Association has observed a growing interest here aml
abroad in children‘s books as a means of cultural ex-
change. To help the trend along. they have just compiled
a booklet, Foreign Children's Books Available in the United
States," which lists books in elm cn languages from many
countries.

Miss Maria Cimino, associate librarian of the Central
Children's Room of the New York Public Library. stated
that. along with giving children a glimpse of life in an-
other country, the use of an Italian or l’olish book. for
instance, frequently ives children from those lands an-
other reason for pritc in their origin.

 

‘Available free from the Public Relations Division. New York

Public Library. Fifth Avenue and Forty-second Street, New York
18. New York.

"scam-nos

lutm'uut ion “I

'08

I

Irtivi

j.
A

 

H.556 9:: 35:8.
855:: >535:

:59. ::5 M555. 5 555:5. 5:55: 5 :55: :: ::5:55:.. :5 :52: 5: :5
:55... > 5:5? "25:55 ::5:55 Km: 5:: 5:5 ::5:: :: $555555. :5 55: ::
.5: 551%: :555::5: :25: ::5:5:::m 5:3. 5.. :35: :5 5 :555: m: :5
55:25.. 5: :5 555:5. > :55: :5 35:55:55: 5: 3:5 5: :5 5:5:5. 33.555
55:: 5: 5 35.55" :55:5 5::. :d. :5523m 5:5 :55: 5: 555:: 25:. :3.
:5 r:55r :5 :55: 5:: :5 5:5? :: :5 :55: :5 :5: 5:: :5::5 ::5::5 :5
35:5 :5 33.5.. :55:5:n5 :5 55:... :: :n :5::5 555::5 :5 555:5. :5
3:355. 2::5 :5 :55? .:.:5 M535 :53. :5 15:5: 25: 5:5: ::555 5:.
55855.

H.525
2.4.5555:

>:: :5 5::::_.5: 55:: :: m :::5. ro::::m :55 78:5 5:: :: :55 5:
:55 2::: :5:::5 :5M5:5_.. .35 55:55. :55555 :52: :5 :5 5:: :55.
5::5 :5 9.5:: :5 :52:5 :35 555:: 15:55.5 :5::5. :35: :5 P53. :555
:55: :n :35 55:55:5.5 72:5. :5" 55:: :55: 5:: :5 55:5 5:555: :55:::
5:: :5: 355:.” 5:: 52:: :5 555:5 n5 :5 55:55.. 2:55: :5::m. 555%.:
:d. 55. 5: :5 5:55. 5:355. :: :5 :5 55.5%.". :5 55575:. :555355 :5
55:53 :: :5 :5 :5: 55.5%.". :5 55555 :5 55:55..

m....nm

ék 2:55. 5: :5 55:m5 25 5::m 5:: :53. :55 55:5 :5

a. o. :5 :55 ::5:m:: :5::5. W55. 5 5:555: 655:5: :: :55.
3.9

           

\ 55:45:25: :55ng. 13. 55:5 5: :5 :5::52::m
50...”...

2%.; 5 2:55 5:: 555 :52 :53. 5: :5 5525:5525 55: ::5::.
\x :u. :5 ::5 5:: :5 55:33. :35 275:: 3 55:5.

. 0555...: $5525.: :5 :35 ................................  ....... :m55:5::
“V533: 5: :5 0555: ................................................ ..:5.5:5::
5:55:55 05 ....................................................................... ..::525::
M523 has: .......................................  ............................. .. :53.
mag: 23:: ................................................................. .. >555
35:55:55.5 ................................................................... .. 55:55
$25155 «Q5: M555 :5 7x535: ................................... ..:w:m:m::
:Vatwmum. 38:35 .................................................... .. Rwy—555:5
9.555 53:5 ................................................................ 5:55:55

.355 55.5 :53. 5:55:55 755:5 55.52555 :: :5 :5::5::5 5555.55 55:.
:5::::m :5 :55:m: 25:5 5:: :5 3:55 :5 55:.m5 5::m 5555:: :5
251:. H.555:— 95 5.. :25 5: :5 556:5 5:55 :5 :55. «5.5.5:? .55 5.5.5::
55:.m. :5525. 5:: :5 052:5: 55:m5. Mnramuumgauk 5:: Dz. Dz.
55:5: :5... :2... E5555. :5 55:55:55. moo: :55 mac: 5::M::m 2::: 5
55:5... .255 55 5:55 :53. 255:: 53. :5 5552:. :3:5:5: E.
57:55:.

O

0

(Fold Back)

 

=55:qu men. 5-:-

 

FcnmaAAEZ :3. 5:.
5:.5-52233: Vacuum-.2...

>: ::5:.:5:o:5: Bow—5:: 2:: 553.5 :25 :5555555':
55: 5535:: 559.55 255:: 55.5 :5555::m 5:: 5:55:53.
5% 5:: :n 55: 55:5: 5 5:55:55. :::5:.55::::m 5: 55. 55:52.5 5::
55.5.. :5 25::. P55: 5:. :5 :55. :Uwomgg :d. :55::_.::m 5:35:55. 55:55.
355:5. 5:: 55 5:. 5: :5 :55::5:: wow—:5 :: :55. 55:55.. :w:55:_.5M5 :5
5:53:55: :5 m:: 5:: 2:55 :55 :m:::55 51%:55: 5:: :5 :53: 5::
:5:. 55: 5:55.: :555 55:35.55 :55. m ::55:55:5: :Vnomgzr
.255 55 ::::_::5: 9.5.555 275:: 55: :5 553.5: 5:: m: 78:53::
maocwm. @5355 55.5 5: 5:55:55 5555 5: :5:.5:5:5::m 5: 355.55: :: :5
:555 5:: :5:5::5 5: 5:5: 52:55. :wc:::::m 36:55: :55555 5:: 53:55.55.
:555::m :5::5 :: :55::..: 5553:55. :55:m :35 5: :5 5.51555 55::.
2.55 :53: 55:55: :5355. 55:::5::::m 5555:1555. 5:: :5r::m 5:5.
75:25 5:: 525:5. 2::: :55:m:5 5: :5 553:5 55 5:: :555 ::.5:.55:5
255:: 55::: :5 55:55:. 3:55 5:35:53. bammumww 9:55: :55:
:J. :w. :03. 7.57:5... $35: war::5::::m. 05:553.. 5555::5 :55:m.:5 :38
:53. :5::5 275:: :53. :5 5:555: no :555 35555.:
05:55:55::::m. 2:: :5: :5:5 :: :55:m: 5555.55 5:5: :55:5 no 53.
35555:: :15::5:::55. 5:: 5:5 :: 5 5:5: 25:. :5 5:55: ::55.:5:5:5:
:::55.5:m::::m. 2:52 :5 25:5 “5.5::5 araocmr 05:55:55::5:55.. :5 5
55:5: ::5::m 5:55: 5 :55: 5:555 55:55:55::5:55 5m5:5:55 ::.5:m::.
5:: :5 C35: mnm55. F55 :5 5:53:55. ::5 :5525: :5 545:5:55 n5 :5:-
5555.5 :5». 5: 55:5. :59: 05:6 :35 9:5. 3555:5359 :m M55:

R5:: 9555:. 252 45:.“ 0:33

 

In lvru-ulional

it's

It'lil'il

0
‘

0.2.8.. :0 002.00.. .0... 0 :0._000.. 00.. 030
0.... :8: 08:80 00.: :05 .0830 :05800: 00 100.. 8.8 w.._:..m.$
8:0.— _.:0 .0010: 00.8 w::.:m.$ 0800.00 £80080 8.8 w::.:m.$ 0.00..
..:_0._ 0:0 00:00.... :w_..... .m...0:0._._0 .30.: 8.8 05... :02... :wmm 0.: w:_
0.0... .000. 0.3. .08 0.00.. 0.: 0x0... 0:_m mm; :0 0.8.3... :0 0.. E00. 0:.
80 :me 0.: .0200 0. 0000.... 0.: :0... E0800 0 3.0:. 0.00. E .0..mmm 0.:
:0 0.8 03.0... 0:? 2000110.. 8 .08.. .0000._II:..0.$ :8: 0.: :O .802...
:m 0...: .30.: .032 ::0 0mm... .35.]:3. :..0 :0.“ 8 .m..0._0 ::0 $.20
08008.. :00 x00..llm:.8.$ 0.... .05 0.: .8 £000 80:0 8.: 00 ::0 .20:
Em... .30.: :8 mcm:_0: .00.:0 :000 0000 0.0.3:. .0...0w 0.: w:m..0_._ :_
.30.... 000.80 0000.: #0.... 00.8 .000.— ::0 £02.00 .00 0800.000 .000.—
..08 0.80080 £08008... 5.00.... #0000 080080 .08 £00.. 0.0 gm? 0.:
:0 000.0... 0.3. :30: ..._0._ :0: 0.: w:_:0._0 .3 8:0.— ::0 $0: 0.: :8:
000?: 0.... w:m::0...0 .3 080080 :0: :08—0 0 .3 :0cm:mmm mm 0.00:
.0020... $0.: ::0 0.5% 0.: :m :00: 0:30 00...: 0.: 0.0:..— .000. 0.0.3.;
0:? £000 80 05... 0.:
:0 0.80m. wing..— .3 3—0.. .8 0.20m .0:_._.._:.._ 6.5% E00. 0 m0 :0...
0.— 00.0 :00 : 0:5: .30... :m 0.00m .00 m..:....00 0 00 :00: mm 0::

AOL $.02 .:0_.II:0._0_. 3.0.0 .w:0;0 .wzm._0ll0..m._0v
8...... .00000m0m £000

0:0: 8:0
...0 E ..0..:__._0 .3 :00: 0.0.00.0;0 _...0 0:8...
0.: .:_.$ m0...0w 0.: m0... .:.0..m0..; .0:0:0....0.:_
:0 0.. :0.— ..< .200: .8 0.0.0.820 :..0 28:30.0...
8...... 02:0 .3... .0050 :00... .08.. 0.0 2.8...
0.: 80.38:: :0.::._0 3 :0..0_._ 00.5% 0.5. a...“

7......va

030:3. 0: 2: =80: :28». ............. .. .308000
0.30:. 0000—. 00.3.. 00:25 0::..0m.. <
0w0::0m 0.20 300003 :..0_0n_
0......0 .3387. :0305 ......... .. _0w:..0n_
:._0._0_00.m :0:0.$m 20:05.. 502%
:0w0._....._00  020.....0D 300007. 0mm...”—
.:._.......m:..: aim—0m 0.00m .20:
.020; 00:0; .8::0A   ::0_w:m

.000... 080.. 00.. :00 :30 _0.m._00 m: 00.. 3.5.00 :00”.—

30:00.0

0

__20¢050202__________________________

O

O

O

8:020m 5

0380.00 £0.05 00:00
Gmwc— .CEQQH . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. “9-H;
0000.0 0:0: :0 00:0
0.8.x:— ..0:0:vm  .233—

Jump". 20A..— .  Um006

380—8507. £0.15.

600000 .0300 . 00008:.
0.:5 .m::0_.0.:07. 8.50.—
0300 009%
0:30 05m .30:
0:..0 8.500

«.005. 9:30:00 0.: .3...

m: 3.5.... :02... 003.500 0.: 0: 0:8... 08...— .8... 09 002.....00 8:0
:8: “.0209... 0.0 00.0.m :88: 0.: :_ :00: 0.00:0... 0.: .8 .307.

30300....
 .....I||o.......:.....   sin: . 
0......m ............ .. 3:030...— 0:0..00 0.80.4007.
 ..........:.. ....   
0:080 ............ .. 030009 00:85 .:..0m 0000...».
00.0% :0.m:D 0:00.00 0.: nomad. 0—...

0:00.03. 000308.1—
 o o o o o o no. o o o o o o . I a... 
_.:0_00N 307. . .. 0—000
..0z0_.  ............ .. .8275
$030: 00.. 0:00?

Nhuuwkw HO  wco— “mop—u mac—h

00.. 2:0... 000;... $02: .00... 0. 0.8... mm 8.5.. 0 :08: m::..:..... .2

0.00m:
::0_.0~.m3m 08.20.07.
00:00,...  0:05 :87.
00:87. #8020000...—
33...  .25....
Egan—000.7. $0.000

«H0400: 0.00.: 0—0.... 0. 0w :0...

:30... b.2280 8;... 0. $53820 55.50... 0:80. 0: 0. :200... :0... .2

052.507.

kayo—:0 ho.“ mac—um mmb==ZOb 6:” 0 II:

t a l ii‘a‘
00.. 00mm :0... ..._._0.m00w .0 00:0 :4. 0.0.00... hi...) L“ x“

r. \
8.. 0.3 0 0... 0.8: ._0..0:00..:0 6...: 0:80 0.: .0 0.. umw\. xv...”
.050 .m..m:m0..0.:0 0: :00 00.3.... .0..0:0....0.:_ new  .runu

John A. Lippold

Tom-HAWK CLUB g... 76....

I] URING the past three years, over were permitted to join. It was found,

twelvc hundred parents and interested
adults have volunteered to chaperon at
theiclub for teen-agers in Aurora, Illi-
nois; and the life of the club, its suc-
cess and progress, depends to a large
extent upon their help.

The present Tom-A-Hawk teen-agc
club was started in September 1947,
and is sponsored by Aurora’s play-
ground department, which provides
space and maintenance. It is located in
the community recreation center. Ac-
tivities for the year start in September
and end in June, covering a total of
about one hundred nights each year.
The club is open on Tuesday from
7:30 p.111. to 10:00 p.m., and on Fri-
day and Saturday, when the hours are
extended, to 11:00 p.m. Dues for each
member are seventy-five cents a year.

Recreation activities include danc-
ing to the club-owned juke box or to
orchestras furnished without charge
by local unions, the viewing of tele-
vision, games of ping-pong, shullle-
board and checkers.

Club membership is restricted to
Aurora residents. During the first year,
guests and out-of-towners from nearby
cities, not having clubs of their own.

 

JOHN LIPPOLD is the capable director
of the playground and recreation de-
partment in the city of Aurora, I”.

OCTOBER 1952

however, that as the p0pularity of the
club grew and the membership in-
creased, guests and out-of-towners
would have to be eliminated. With a
membership during 1949-50 totaling
2,340 young people, and with some
nightly attendances exceeding nine
hundred, it became apparent that mem-
berships could not be extended beyond
Aurora.

Membership in the club is restricted
to young pe0ple from the ages of four-
teen through nineteen. In the lower age
bracket, the tcen-ager must be in high
school. In other words, a young person
may be sixteen years old but still in
junior high or eighth grade, and thus
not eligible for the club. However, a
thirtecn-ycar-old who has reached high
school is eligible for membership. Ex-
perience has proved that most young-
sters below high school have unstable
social tendencies which are not accept-
able to the teen-age groups generally.
They prefer romping, punching and
playing tag to dancing and competitive
games.

The control and administration of
memberships, after three years of trial
and error, have devel0ped almost fool-
proof methods. The young pe0ple are
permitted to join at the beginning of
each year or on any night the club is
open. Each applicant must read. and

acknowledge by signature, the rules
and by-laws of the club, which are
simply rules of good behavior. The ap-
plicant is required to give information
as to name, address, parents, school-
ing, and so on, which is later filed in a
confidential file. The applicant is pho-
tographed and his picture is printed on
his membership card.

Two membership cards are made;
one is given to the new member, and
one is kept in a membership file. The
use of each member’s picture on his
card eliminates exchanging of cards.
llows of numbers are printed on the
cards, each representing a night of ac-
tivity. The chaperons at the door iden-
tify each member by his photo and
punch the number on the card corre-
Spending to the night’s activity. If a
member should forget his card, he may
he admitted by having the chaperon at
the desk verify his identity through the
file of duplicate photo-membership
cards. If he loses his card, he must be
rc-photographed.

The club administration
the control of a teen-age board. Each
year an election is held to determine
the olhcers and board members. Since
Aurora has four high schools, repre-
sentatives are elected from each school.
with the officers rotating annually
among the schools. As the teen-agers
are responsible for the club, a feeling

is under

297

.f ownership and belonging is more
(-vidcnt than it would be if the club
were just gium to Aurora's young
people.

The club does not try to raise mon-
rv l’r utiLs from memberships. dona-
tmns and the sale of refreshments f ur-
nish funds for thr- purchase of paint,
rc-dccoratingr of r-Iub rooms, new
quipmcnt and the salaries of the ex-
u'utive sccrcta ry and the club director.

\lanagcntcnt of the. Tom-A-llawk
Hub is under the direction of the
playground department’s director and
is part of his year-round city job. The
custodian, who is respt'rnsible for the
maintenance of the entire recreation
center, is paid by the department. The
costs of electricity, steam, repair, and

AWARDS

OVER
DEPARTMENTS

so on, are paid by the department
since these are a part of the normal
maintenance for the building.

The greatest source of volunteer

help has been from among the parents
of the tecn-agers. ln volunteering their
did. these parents can feel that thcv
are helping to provide a much needed
recreational facility for their young-
stcrs. Civic and social clubs, also, haw
given their cooperation.
Volunteers have various duties.
which include checking coats, verif}
ing memberships at the entrance. plut-
tographing applicants for membership.
filing. typing, working at the coke bar.
controlling the game rooms, and act-
ing as chapcrons.

Chaperons volunteer for one night a

YOU CAN AFFORD

IOO RECREATION
USING

OUR PLASTIC TROPHYS

WRITE TODAY FOR

UNSURPASSED in SAFETY V"

and DURABIUTY

FREE SAMPLE

 

: feature by leoture comparisom BURKE-39m ' “Art.  - Tb
. ML '

Equipment definitely afiers

degree.

Equipment by BURKE is built on «instant research
ond ls unconditlonolly guaranteed ogolnst de
Choose
BURKE the choice of men who Innow Outstanding

fects .n workmanship and materials.

value.

"HE J. E. BURKE CO., road «to in. wt..
Factory Drench. lax us. New Brunswick. NJ.

 

V)fl_

Outstanding value.
Approval by park and playgrOund ofiiciois IrOrn
coast to coast is an authoritative support for its
superiority. Special fittings and scientific design
offer functional advantages that really contribute
to safety, durability and economy in the hlghest

WRITE TODAY

Free Manning Assistance
by Burlte engineers.
Complete catalog ond price list.

Address Dept. A

’/

year, a month, or a week, depending
upon their availability. An average of
fifteen to thirty chapcrons are needed
each club night.

The fine behavior of Tom-A-llawk
(Ilnb members, the good attendance
and the tremendous amount of volun-
tcer assistance contributed are evi-
dence enough of its success. The good
it has done for the youngsters is of an
abstract nature and cannot be meas-
ured; but the memory of a former
lack of such facilities in Aurora, and
the enjoyment expressed by the mem-

bers nightly, make its worth evident.

 

F— "-—-'

\Vorld Youth

Last August the third congress of
the World Assembly of Youth met at
Dakar, West Africa. Attending were
one hundred and fifty delegates from
twenty-two non-Communist countries,
including eight from the United States
elected by the Young Adult Council of
the National Social \Velfarc Assembly.
The congress discussed the fight
against discrimination and illiteracy;
improvement of education; and pro-
motion of technical assistance and
world understanding. A tour of Afri-
can villages followed the congress.

Chartered four years ago in London,
England, at an international Youth
Council, the \Vorld Assembly of Youth
aims at establishing a world-wide fed-
cration of youth working together on
coinmon international interests. Previ-
ous congrcsscs were held at Brussels.
Belgium, and Istanbul. Turkey. Dakar
was chosen for this congress because
this important naval and air base in
Senegal was thought to provide the
best example of youth cooperation: and
enterprise in Africa. it was Africa's
first world youth meeting.

Another world youth movement. in
its fourth year. is the International
Farm Youth Exchange, sponsored by
the 4-” Clubs. I'nder this project one
hundred and forty-eight young people
of the 4-” Clubs have spent months
working on farms in other countries.
while a corresponding group came to
thc l'nited States. lipon their return.
these “grass-roots" ambassadors haw
sltarcd their experiences widcly by
means of lectures, articles and radio
programs.

RECREATION

PERSONNEL

 

SOUTHERN REGIONAL

RECREATION STUDY

The Southern Regional Education
Board has asked the National Recrea-
tion Association to make a study of
the recreation leadership and training
needs in the fourteen southern states.
The regional board was established in
1948 by a compact drawn up between
the states and signed by the governors.
It has been ratified by the acts of the
state legislatures of the fourteen south-
ern states.

The recreation study will be the
first of its kind in the history of the
recreation movement, and will involve
a careful study of the growth and de-
velopmcnt of recreation in the south-
ern regions. The present status of rec-
reation leadership in the South will be
analyzed, and the number and types
of leaders needed and in the
immediate years ahead will be de-
termined.

A second phase of the study will in-
clude an inventory of the professional
educational opportunities now avail-

110‘"

able in the South. The relationship be-
tween the need for recreation leaders
till the one hand, and the number of
leaders being trained on the other, will
have to be examined. The barriers and
inhibitions that are preventing im-
provement will be identified and inter-
preted and a course of action pro-
posed.

The South cannot afford, and prob-
ably can no other region for that mat-
ter, adequate facilities and leadership
for professional programs in every
state for the various professions. On
the other hand, through cooperation
and the pooling of educational re-
sources, every region can have a strong
professional school in the various
fields. The development of strong pro-
fessional educational centers on a re-
gional basis will make it possible to
supply the leaders needed by the vari-
ens agencies at a minimum cost.

Regional programs are already nn-

Oeroesn 1952

W. C. Sutherland

derway in the South in some of the
old-line professions including medicine,
dentistry, veterinary medicine, social
work and forestry. It is significant
that recreation also has been identified
as important in the improvement of
economic and social conditions in the
southern region. In a sense the project
involves a series of studies within a
study. The range or scope includes
not only the present and estimated fu-
ture personnel needs of government
agencies—local, state and federal—but
also, such agencies employing recrea-
tion leaders as industry, hoSpitals,
churches, homes for children and the
aged, penal institutions, and voluntary
organizations.

The Study Connnittee held its first
meeting June 19, in Atlanta, Georgia,
and developed and approved plans for
the project. A pilot study was con-
ducted to test questionnaires and pro-
cedures and the full scale study is now
under way. The report, when com-
pleted, should be a safe guide for the
Southern Regional Education Board in
the development of adequate profes-
sional and educational programs in
the field of recreation.

This committee, appointed jointly
by the Southern Regional Education
Board and the National Recreation
Association, includes: W. C. Suther-
land, National Recreation Association.
study director; Leo M. Chamberlain,
vice-president, University of Ken-
tucky; W. J. McClothlin, consultant
for professional programs, Southern
Regional Education Board; Nan C.
Crow, superintendent of recreation,
Charlottesville, Virginia: Robert P.
Daniel, president, Virginia State Col-
lege; Alvin Eggeling, superintendent
of recreation. Oklahoma City. Okla-
homa; Cliff Kerby. director of recre-
ation, Callaway Mills Company, La-
Grange. Georgia; Harold D. Meyer.

chairman

of recreation curriculum.

 

University of North Carolina; Beverly
S. Sheffield, director of recreation.
Austin, Texas; Henry K. Stanford,
Board of Regents, ['niversity System
of Georgia; William J. Tait, director
of recreation curriculum, Florida State
liniversity.

Personnel News

Koehn, superintendent of
parks and recreation, Houston, Texas,
has retired and will he succeeded by
Arnold Moser, the superintendent of
recreation.

Hugo

Other recently appointed superin-
tendents of recreation are: Charles
Beaird, Dublin, Georgia; James E.
Swendig, Pendleton, Oregon; James
Dittmar, Williamsport, Pennsylvania;
Ed Crawford, GriHin, Georgia; A] H.
Bishop, Marietta, Georgia; Charles H.
Odegaard, Marinette, Wisconsin; E.
Stuart Richter, Colorado Springs, Col-
orado; Donald Sinn, Concord, New
Hampshire; Marvin E. Hamm, South
Haven, Michigan; Arnold Halpern,
Weiser, Idaho; Donald M. Cook, Car-
lisle, Pennsylvania; Everett E. Peel.
Moore County, Texas; Clayton Ander-
Williamalene Park District.
Springfield, Oregon; Leland R.
Sehenek, Gilbert, Minnesota; Frank
H. Dearborn, Mystic, Connecticut; Ar-
thur Chartier, Littleton, New Hamp-
shire; Frank Reich, Moscow, ldaho.

son,

Jobs in the Far East

There is still need for recreation
personnel in Korea, Japan, Oki-
nawa, Guam and the Philippines.
Opportunities exist for those wish-
ing to serve with the United States
Air Force. The urgent need is for
special service personnel in man-
ual arts, library and service club
programs. (Men are preferred for
the manual arts positions.)

College graduates between twen-
ty-four and forty years of age, with
training and experience in recre-
ation, are preferred. Form 57, avail-
able at any post ofiice, should be
sent to the Overseas Employtitent
Coordination Ofiice, Director of
Civilian Personnel, qurs. U.S.A.F.,
\Vright-l’atterson Air Force Base,
Dayton, Ohio.

299

LOOK—A PARADE!
Thirty-five cents

Suggestions [or iaiormal and
lormel parades and Heals

NO‘V ALL TOGETHER
MP 414 Twenty Cents I’ 19

A leslival oi Iellowsbip
by Elizabeth Hines llanley

National Recreation Association

National Recreation Association

Here’s an offer you
will want to accept

To let you become well acquainted with the Nation's leading maga-
zines in maintenance for the park and recreation industry, we will
send you the next six issues for only one dollar. (Regular price is

$3.00 per year.)

Start now so you will receive the Buyers’ Guide
Directory of over 500 suppliers in our October
issue.

PARK MAINTENANCE

P. 0. BOX 409 APPLETON, WISCONSIN

.3er Dam Ch”
Segregated/w... Somywtedcé
'r‘)  With these Squore Donee Records with Progressive

 

Oral Instructions and Coils by ED DURLACHER.

Here is the easy and economical way to meet the
ever-growing demand for square dancing in your
community . . . the HONOR YOUR PARTNER

series of square dance records.
A A ‘A’

Each record in albums 1 to 4 starts with sim Ii-
fied progressive oral instructions by Ed Durlaeier
—instructions easily understood by dancers of all
- ages. Following): brlef pause, giving the dancers
time to square their sets, the music and calls gin. The TOP HANDS, directed

 

by FRANK NOVAK, offer the host In scintillating and foot tapping s uare dance
music. The calls are delivered by one of the nation's most outstan 'ng square
dance authorities, ED DUltLACIIEIt.

The filth album in the series contains music only, without calls or instructions—
“The Square Dance Caller's Delight".

‘A' ‘A' ‘0

AN INI'HUSIASI'IC USE! REPORTS . . .

"The square dance album ‘llonor Your l’artner' is ali that you claimed it to be—we
tried out the records on a group of eighth grade students and they picked it the
innructions without dificuity. In the space o thirty minutes, this group, With" bad
rrerer rmre dented Ire/ore, were doing the ‘(gures in an expert fashion. The records
u-rre a so a hit at the adult square dance to ich we held last night."

Allied Elliott, lit-creation Director, Greenwood, Mi~sisuippi

All records guaranteed m leern mere obeul the

ogotnst breekoge. HONOR YOU! PAIYNGI albums.

IORlVllt WrIle for e desertpltve folder.
SQUARE DANCE ASSOCIATES

DEPT. I-II [INFO-IT, NIW YOiK

 

3t)“

 

HALLO\VEEN IN DUMAS

In Dumas, small town of 7,000 in
the Texas Panhandle. a half-rain, half-
snow storm simply added zest to their
gala night. The only vandalism report-
ed was air released from the tires of
four automobiles, and no damage at
all. Fun started at four in the after-
noon. ranging from a turkey rame,
window painting teen-age
dance, costume parade, talking to the
Chief Goblin on the telephone, eating
hot dogs and candied apples, visiting
the carnival booths at the county
courthouse to watching the spooky
midnight movie. A hundred and fifty
boys and girls took part in the window
painting contest, two hundred in the
downtown parade. Holiday-bent young-
sters and families came from all over
Moore County to join in the fun. At
day’s end, tired .Iaycces and Business
and Professional Women's Club mem-
bers cleaned up the litter and began to
set their sights for an even greater
event in 1952.

contest.

KEEP AMERICA BEAUTIFUL

A campaign to stamp out costly dc-
struction and vandalism by careless
vacationers has been initiated by
Natural History magazine. The cam-
paign was formulated following wide-
spread response to “The Great Ameri-
can I.itterbug." an article in the May
issue of the magazine, decrying the de-
plorable damage done by the American
public to our national parks and for-
ests. According to the article, the care-
less habits and deliberate vandalism
of motorists cost the American public
six rrn'llr'on dollars in the year 1950
alone. At present, Americans are stead-
ily converting their nation's most
prized natural and historic areas into
monuments to the “Great American
Littcrbug."

Clean-up campaign stickers, bearing
the injunctions. “Don't be a Litter-
bug" and “Keep America Beautiful."
are being financed by money con-b
tributed spontaneously by the public
in response to the article and by the
magazine itself. The stickers are cur-
rently being distributed to motorists
at the entrances of Yellowstone. Grand
Canyon and Yosemite National Parks.

Itizracvnox

WIIISTLING BEACHES into nearly every phase of life——
from the warning whistle of the policeman or fire

engine to the expressive whistles of admiration or skepti-
cism, from the comforting whistle to keep up courage to
the joyous whistling of a skipping child. The whistle makes
a useful contribution to the fields of recreation and enter-
tainment. Whistles are employed in various sports and
performances, such as football, basketball, swimming
(meets), polo, falconry, archery (arrows with whistle
heads), riding contests, circuses, hunting, and even con-
cert whistling and record playing.

Learning to whistle is one of the important events of
childhood, and the ways to have fun with whistling are
part of growing up.

\Vhistle Contest No. l—This is an old game. It is fun
for the spectators and more fun for the whistlers. Any
two whistlers are selected and placed back to back. Upon
a given signal by a referee, the two whistlers turn around,
face each other, and whistle previously selected tunes
which are not identical. After a few seconds, the referee
stops the whistlers and the winner is chosen by the judges,
or is selected by the applause of the listeners. The winner
is then challcngcd by another contestant.

\Vhistle Contest No. 2—From a group of whistlers, se-
lection is made, by elimination, to determine the best
whistler, second best, and the third best. This contest
among youngstcrs, particularly, is very successfully carried
out in scout groups, boys3 and girls’ camps and clubs, and
by recreation and park departments of large cities.

\Vhistle-Cracker—Another very old game with lots of
fun is whistle—cracker or whistle-race. This requires that
contestants start eating crackers at a signal, then whistle a
tune while chcwing. The winner is the onc who completes
the tune first, or who is first to utter a whistle.

There are several variations of this p0pular game, for
example, sour pickles, persimmons or a teaspoon of lemon
juice may be substituted for the cracker.

Water \Vhistle—In another whistling contest, the face
and lips are submerged in a basin of water, or in the
lake or pool if contestants arc at a camp. The one who
produces the loudest whistle gets the prize. This is a dif-
ficult stunt, and it is seldom possible to find a contestant
who can produce an audible tonc other than the noise of
inflating and bursting buhbles.

 

DR. MONTGOMERY is now engaged in rehabilitation work,
Commission for the Blind, State Department, Texas.

OCTOBER 1952

Richard Montgomery

Whistle Crafts—By making simple whistles, and experi-
menting with other easily constructed “instruments” and
materials, craft skill related to the art of whistling may
be deve10ped. Here are a few suggestions:

Large quills, thoroughly cleaned, from chicken, duck,
turkey, goose, and other large fowl, or drinking straws,
can be used to make an hautboy.

The old Chinese tche can be made from a long tube,
which is played by blowing through a hole in the center.

The Egyptian ney, a tube open at both ends, is blown
across the t0p.

A garden gourd, formed like a ram’s horn, makes a
good sho/ar.

' From whistlewood, tulip p0plar and willow, alder and
fleece flower stem, one can make a shepherd’s pipe.

A flute (frequently called the nightingale of the wood-
winds, instrument of nature, king of the woodwinds), a
flageolet, and an ocarina can be constructed from metal.
clay, wood, bone or plastic.

The hlowing of a blade of grass held between the
thumbs, with hands in position for prayer, makes sounds
like an oboe. The use of a double reed with a wheat straw
produces a similar effect. Another suggestion for making
identical sounds is blowing the stems of squash leaves or
stems of thc petunia flower.

A reed and a wheat straw produce a clarinet sound.

A small hollowed-out cane, or cornstalk, makes a good
fife.

The stem of a fleece flower with a rced can be uscd to
make another type of flute.

Also, trumpets or cornets can be constructed from: the
bark of the birch and the tulip p0plar, with or without a
paper lining; a large sea shell with a small Opening at
the tip; certain trumpet-shaped flowers such as the petunia,
lily, trumpet flower; a cow born with the tip cut off; and
a large hollow reed, tuhe or pipe with one end flared.

Inflated balloons with a whistle head inserted make a
long, continuous sound. By inserting several balloon reeds,
one can actually produce a klaxon, with major or minor
chords.

The whistling t0p, constructed of wood or metal, and
spun with a string or spring winder, can produce several
notes simultaneously, making chord effects. By notching
an ordinary wooden toy top, different whistling notes can

301

be produced. Also, by varying the spacing and the size of
thc notehes, still other sounds result when the top spins.
In fact. many elaborations can be made on the spinning
top. disc, record, wheel and drum. so that almost an}
sound. from a simple whistle, siren blast or wail to the
complex tones of a pipe organ, may be produced.

A yard-long string, attachcd through a hole at the end
of a clinical tongue depressor and whirled by the hand
and arm, makes a hum or whistle. By using a larger stick
or board with sharpened edges, different tones can be pro-
duced.

liubbcr bands, especially the hroadcr ones, stretched
across the handle bars of a bicycle, or a balsam frame, and
attached to a kite tail or body, make pleasant whistling
sounds. A thin rubber band across the Opening of a tube,
pipe, or the like, acts as a rced for another instrument.

All the above ideas are for amateurs, or youngsters, and
are primarily of use for trieks, stunts. contests, games and
skills. lfowevcr, lip whistling can be both fun and profit-
able. Though ea|lcd “lip whistling." it involves not only the
lips, but the entire month eavity. tongue and tongue tip.
tecth, uvula, throat area, nasal arca, lungs. diaphragm.
posture, general health, attitude and the whole personality.
To pursue couccrt whistling. to become proficient. an
artist, calls for study and work.

One of the best professional whistlers is Frcd Lowery.
His thin thread of beautiful music entranccs even the
greatest of musicians. His exotic timbre and tone color
are unsurpassed. A fine windup for an evening of fun for
whistlers, is to play one of his records—Indian Love Call
is one of the best—and watch for more inspired whistling
hy the listeners.

 

Listening and Viewing

Seventy-Eve years ago, on August 12. 1877, Thomas A.
Edison sketched his ideas for the recording and reproduc-
ing of sound. in Novcmhcr of that year he announced an
invention, latcr patented as “a singularly ingenious but very
simple machine," the cylinder phonograph. Today, an
Audio Fair will open for a four-day period at the lio-
tcl New Yorker in New York City, (starting October 29,
1952) enabling manufacturers in the United States, Can-
ada and a number of European countries to present to the
public the metamorphosis of Mr. Edison’s machine, and
a prc-vicw of future deveIOpmcnts.

While the sound reproducing systems to be displayed
will emphasize equipment for use in the home and by the
audio hohbyist, the exhibits of rccorders, public address
and hroadcast systems and professional equipment will be
of interest to the director of any audio-visual department.
The fair is held in conjunction with, and sponsored by the
Audio Engineering Society. Admission is free.

Audio-visual columns of the present, as frequently as
book review pages, carry announcements of recordings:

Paul Revere and the Minute Men, Our Independence
and the Constitution, The Building of the First Transcon-
tinental Railroad, The Wright Brothers constitute the sec-
and group of dramatizations adapted from books of the
llandom llou-te "landmark" series. fine. books on American
history for teen-agers. A professional cast, authentic mu-
sic and background detail, execlleut production. qualify
the recordings for use in programs of reading, history.
drama, social studies and pure entertainment. Each title.
is available in a set of two standard records (78 rpm) for
$2.93 or as one of two titles on a long-playing rceord
(33% rpm) for $3.75. The four titles previously dramao
tized are Voyages of Christopher Columbus, Landing 0]

302

the Pilgrims, California Gold Rush, Riding the Pony Ex-
press. From Enrichment Records, 246 Fifth Avenue, New
York I, New York.

Carnival of Books, Ruth llarshaw's excellent programs
for children, presented by the National Broadcasting Com-
pany, may not be carried by your local radio station. or
may be broadcast at an awkward hour. Recordings of
those programs which have featured seven authors whose
books are published by the Thomas Y. Crowcll Company.
are available free to departments and institutions. They
may be used for three weeks. Order from the Juvenile
Department of Thomas Y. Crowcll, 432 Fourth Avenue,
New York 15, New York. -

The following publications are a few from the many
resource lists available for those planning film programs:

Educators Guide to Free Films, twelfth annual edition.
dcscribcs over twenty-three hundrcd free films available
from industrial, government and other organizations, eon-
veuicntly indexed by title, subject, availability and source
—eaeh section on difl'crcntly eolored paper. Many titles
under the thirty-two topic headings are suitable for recrea-
tion programs: and for the director who may have a spe-
cific policy toward sponsored films. the annotations make
it possible to determine easily the tenor of each film.
'l'hirty-sevcn entries appear under recreation. From Edu-
eators Progress Service, liandolph. Wisconsin. $6.00.

Educators Guide to Free Slide/flirts. fourth annual edi-
tion, lists five hundred and seventy-five titles, in similar
format. From the same company. $4.00.

J‘IOI'FPS for Recreation Programs describes more than
fourtccu lumdred films, many available free. from the As-
sociatiou Films, Incorporated, 317 Madison Avenue, New
York 17. New York. Catalogue is sent free on request.

ltecamrtos

NEW BODY-CONTACT GAME
OFFERS FEWER HAZARDS

“Competitive games provide
an unusually satisfactory so-
cial outlet for the instinctive
aggressive drive. The most
aggressive outlet offered by

recreation is seen in those
sports in which there is bodi-
ly contact.”

WILLIAM C. MENNINCER, M.D.

 

To SCHOOLS LOOKING for a new
sport to add to their existing pro-
gram, or for a body-contact game
which oflers a minimum of player
hazards, may I suggest American Ball?
Touch football was eliminated from
the program of intramural sports at
Purdue University in 1948 because of
the high incidence of serious injuries.
Realizing that a successful program
of intramural sports needs at least one
contact game, we immediately began
a survey to find a suitable replace-
ment. This was a difficult assignment
because touch football is one of the
most popular intramural sports on our
American campuses. Our difficulties
were increased because we were look-
ing for a game which would require a
minimum of space and no special
equipment.
In the screening of possible activi-
ties we came across a sport called
American Ball. The rules were pre-

MR. HANIFORD is assistant professor
at Indiana’s Purdue University.

OCTOBER 1952

pared in 1934 by Larry A. Bidlake of
the Department of Physical Education
and Health, School of Education, New
York University. The name, American
Ball, was chosen because elements of
America’s three most popular games—
basehall, basketball and foothall—are
combined in it.

American Ball is played by two
teams of nine men each on a court
108 feet by 60 feet. The rules closely
resemble those of basketball.

An inflated hall, approximately four-
teen inches in diameter is used. The
ball may he carried or passed from
one player to another. It may not be
kicked.

The purpose of the game is to throw
the ball from behind a “scoring line”
to a catcher who is stationed in a
“catcher’s zone." The scoring line is
drawn across the court fifteen feet
from and parallel to the end line. The
catcher’s zone is an area four feet deep
directly behind and parallel to the end
line.

Scoring

A goal made from the field counts
two points; a goal from the free-throw
line counts one point. The free-throw
line is the same as the scoring line.
After each goal the ball is put into
play by a jump ball in the center
circle.

Timing

Two fifteen-minute periods are

George W. Haniford

played, with an intermission of ten
minutes between periods. If the score
is a tie at the end of the game, play is
continued for an extra period of five
minutes or as many five-minute periods
as are necessary to break the tie.
The number of officials and their
duties are the same as for basketball.
The referee starts the game by tossing
the ball up between two players of op-
posing teams in the center of the play-

ing field.

Violations

The original rules for American
Ball permitted tackling as long as tack-
ling was not above the shoulders or
below We immediately
dropped this rule and instructed our
oflicials to call a personal foul when-

the knees.

ever the following were committed:

l. Tripping an opponent.

2. Grabbing an opponent above the
shoulders or below the waist.

3. Using unnecessary roughness.

4. Deliberater pushing an oppo-
nent.

5. Piling up on a man when he is
down.

6. Deliberately throwing or knoek-
ing an opponent to the ground.

7. Interfering in any way with op-
ponent when the ball is tossed between
players.

8. Interfering
who does not have the ball.

We penalize these violations with
one free throw and charge the of-

with an opponent

303

fender with the personal foul. Four
personal fouls automatically disquali-
fy the player from further participa-
tion in the game.

The game has proven to be very
fast and slightly rough at times. How-
ever, our experience has been that
when the participants learn the rules
and play it a few times, they hegin to
eliminate much of the roughness and
concentrate on their scoring offense
and their defensive game.

Oflicials must use a great deal of
discretion in calling personal fouls.
For instance, although it is a foul to
grab above the shoulders or below the
waist, it is entirely possible that situa-
tions will come up in which violations
are entirely unintentional: for exam-
plc, a man with the ball may attempt
to evade his Opponent by ducking
which might result in his coming up
with his opponent's arm around his
neck, thus making it appear that he
was grabbed around the neck.

Officials may control the element of
roughness by simply calling “held
ball" more frequently, although it is
recommended that a held hall should
only be called when the hall becomes
so tied up between two or more play-
ers that it is impossible to throw or
pass the hall.

Very few injuries have been report-
ed at Purdue in its two years experi-
cncc with American Ball. There have
been the common sprained or turned
ankles, bruises and sore muscles. We
have yet to experience the first broken
bone.

In the fall of 1930 we had one slight
brain concussion, which we consider
was our most serious injury. The con-
cussion happened when a boy, leaping
into the air to catch a pass, lost his
balance and hit his head on the ground
upon falling.

American Ball. in
will never replace touch football in
college intramural sport programs.
The game is not too well known and,
perhaps, some schools do not need to
replace touch football because they are
not experiencing serious accidents.
However, for schools that may be look-
ing for a new sport, may We recom-
Incnd American liall.

all probability.

,_...____._ ...__.‘

Reprinted from Safety Education, February,
1932.

301

      

“M

A

7Zow THAT the school year is under

way, let us hear from you.

“Help \Vcck” Versus “Hell \Veck"

A graphic demonstration of the
awakening of Omaha University’s stu-
dents to their reSponsibilities as mem-
bers of their community was the "Help
Week" program initiated for the first
time last spring by the university’s ln-
terfraternity Council.

Approximately forty young men,
members of Sigma Phi Epsilon and Pi
Kappa Alpha, together with fifty co-
eds, members of Chi Omega and Alpha
Xi Delta, participated in a two-day
clean-up campaign at Elmwood Park.
This involved raking the grounds; re-
moving the winter's accumulation of
cans, hroken glass, leaves, dead
branches, and papers; washing the
windows in park buildings and putting
the park in neat, clean condition.

The park and recreation commission
and other city agencies, aided in simi-
lar fashion by members of other Greek
houses, as well as Omaha’s citizens,
expressed appreciation to the students.

' The Dramath Center News, pub-
lishcd by the University of Delaware.
has announced that November 7, 1952
is the date which has been selected for
the Thirteenth Delaware Dramatic
Conference. The university offered
during the summer a new type of dra-
matic training course, The School Dra-
matic Program. which enabled student
teachers. through cooperation with [he
summer program of the Newark llcc-
rcation Association, to work with stu-
dents of high school and junior high
school age in rehearsing and staging
one-act plays.

. Still another opportunity for prac-
tieal experience in administering a
professional conference was offered to
students at Florida State University

last spring. when the Nl'iA district

05: 746 We

conference was held on its campus.
Students met the delegates at trains,
bus depots and airports, acted as hosts
and handled the registration. Florida's
students are not all found on its cam-
pus. An open letter from President
Miller in the program of last year's
Georgia-Florida football game stated
that during the past two years, nearly
sevcnty thousand persons had been en-
rollcd through the general extension
division of the university. Special
courses have been given, among others.
to park executives, wild life officers,
social workers and recreation superin-
tendcnts.

' Six weeks of activities in a grad-
uatc workshOp in community studies
culminated in July for fifteen students
of Lewis and Clark College, Portland.
Oregon, when residents of Oregon City
gathered to hear and discuss the tenta-
tivc conclusions which had been
reached. The survey was conducted
under the supervision of Dr. ll. S.
Tuttle, with Dr. Eduard C. Lindcman
as co-chairman. One group of students
studied the vocational interests and
ambitions of ninth graders; the second
studied the recreation interests of the
some children.

The latter proved to be largely those
for which Oregon’s outdoor playland
provides, but it appeared that less than
twenty per cent of the population util-
ized the city’s outdoor recreation facil-
ities. Opportunities for recreation in
music, drama and folk dancing ap-
peared to be inadequate. lntcrviews
indicated that ninety-nine per cent of
the youngsters earned money for their
own clothes aml savings, and two-
thirds of them wished to enter voca-
tions which require education beyond
high school. Summer Sun, published
at Lewis and Clark College, quotes Dr.
l.indcman's connncnt, “Nowhere do I
know of another study so well organ.
ized and motivated.”

ltecaanms

Pretzel Public Relations

“Official Halloween Police Pretzels,
Courtesy Your Police Department,”

said a slip inserted in each cellophane
bag containing pretzels, furnished by
a local company in Rochester. New
York, to the city police bureau——for
free distribution to the young folks
who were on the streets between 6:30
p.m. and 9:30 pm. last Halloween.
The plan was initiated by Captain Hen-
ry H. Jensen, director of the youth
bureau and police athletic league, to
promote good will and good behavior.
Rochester believes it is the first city
in New York state to take this step,
although it knows of twenty-four other
cities in the United States where the
plan has been adopted. Seventy-five
thousand pretzels were distrihuted last
vcar.

A Note for Swimmers

The use of thc frogman mask, a
glass front in a rubber headset, which
fits over the nose and eyes of a swim-
mer, enabling him to see clearly under
water, has hecn forbidden in pools and
at beaches of most state and city parks
in New York state. The ban was an-
nounced after the death by asphyxia
of a youngster whose mask had appar-
ently slipped over his nose and mouth,
preventing him from exhaling. Use
of masks in pools operated by the
New York city parks department has
never been allowed. Recreation direc-
tor R. A. Minco. of Buffalo, reported
the masks were illegal in that city be-
cause of possible injury to swimmers

OCTOBER 1952

 

should the glass become broken. Rub-
ber foot fins are also banned.

From NBA Headquarters

The principal address at a confer-
ence on aging, sponsored by Passaic
County’s (New Jersey) Health and
Welfare and Tuberculosis and Health
Associations, on June 19, was made
by Charles E. Reed, manager of the
NRA field division. He also took part

in the recreation and education work-
shop.

Facts and Figures

Greens fees at Detroit’s municipal
golf courses ivere increased in July,
on nine-hole courses from $.50 a
person to 3.60 and on eighteen-hole
courses on weekdays from $1.00 to
$1.25 and from $1.25 to $1.50 on
weekends and holidays. . . . Almost
eight dollars per capita is being ex-
pended in Grand Junction, Colorado,
for public park and recreation pur-
poses. . . . Proceeds of a $200,000 bond
issue passed in Boise, Idaho will be
used for construction of two new
swimming pools and the acquisition
and renovation of a large pool, now
privately owned. . . . Approximately
nine acres of open space for one
thousand of its ultimate population is
being set aside by Capetown, South
Africa. A suburban estate, purchased
by the City Council in 1950, is being
developed to include a library, tea-
room, swimming bath and park with
The average
daily attendance in Schoonover pool,
Lima, Ohio, during June 1952 was
925, almost double the daily attend-
ance of 485 during June 1951. This
year, for the first time, the pool was
painted an attractive light blue color.

open-air theatre.

A Symbol of Peace

No ordinary corncob or imitation
Meerschaum is the Baton Rouge High
——Istroun1a High “Peace Pipe.” Un-
like the old-time trihesmen’s symbol of
peace, it can’t he smoked, but it is
a symhol, nevertheless. Annually since
1935, these two largest high schools
in Baton Rouge have clashed with
red-hot rivalry on the.city’s football
gridirons, with the victor usually in
the running for state honors. Feelings
oftcn ran high following the games. A
symbol of peace was indicated.

 

Students of both schools have long
been active supporters of the youth
program of the recreation and park
commission of East Baton Rouge Par-
ish, including the annual football frol-
ic. Recreation officials wished to show
their appreciation for this participa-
tion by the older youths—with a sym-
bol of cooperation. A bit of the city’s
history was added. Its name, Baton
Rouge, was given to it by an Indian
tribe and means “red stick.” Thus
the Youth Center Peace Pipe trophy
was created in 1951.

Carved by an assistant leader at the
youth center, from seven layers of
oak, its bowl is eight inches high and
six inches in diameter. Attached to
its twenty-six inch' stem is a leather
thong decorated with feathers, dyed
green and gold for Baton Rouge and
grey and red for lstrouma. A small
leather tag, signifying the winning
team for the year, is chained to the
pipe. It is accepted by the captain of
the victorious squad from the captain
of the losing team at the football frolic,
and remains in the trophy case of the
winning school until the following
year’s game is played.

The Istrouma Indians, new state
champions, hold it this year, having

 

taken the game in 1951, thirty-four to ,
six. Four hundred students from the
two schools attended the frolic at the
youth center to watch the presenta-
tion. Above are shown the coocaptains

of the 1951 football teams.

Peal "ca;—
7%

W

GIVE NOW L‘E'WN'" 9'1?“

r THROUGH WU!

305

 

Youth Symphony members, San Diego, take part in navy and army projects.

7V MAKING PLANS for your fall and
winter recreation program, do not
forget the serviceman at the nearhy
installation: who hungers for civilian.
off-post activities—«the sort of rccrc-
ation that he enjoyed hack in his own
home town. (Carefully review your
Copy of Off-Post Recreation [or the
Armed Forces”, and if you have not
received this puhlieation, seml for a
sample cepy at once!)

Close cooperation with the special
services officer at the installation will
he productive of many program ideas,
of a clearer understanding of the needs
of these men and women—and even
of new leadership for your own pro-
gram. You will find that many of the
service personnel are skilled in various
phases of recreation and will he only
too glad to lend their services wherever
they can make a real eontrihution.

Try to draw service people into your
regular aetivities rather than treat
them as a group apart. lu addition to
welcoming them in your sports and
athletics program, make an effort to
draw them into new interestsr-into
arts and erafts, music, photography
and other such groups, and into your
social affairs.

l'se the tried and true “exposure
method" to catch their interest. For
example. set up a craft activity in a

'Amilahle her. from the National lieerea-

lion Association. 315 Fourth Avenue. t'cw
York ID. New York.

306

eonSpicuous spot in your center, where
anyone entering cannot miss it and
where boys from the base will he in-
trigued hy what is going on and can
crowd around to watch. Next thing
you know, they will want to try a
hand themselves. (Be sure to select a
project which can he finished in a rea-
sonany short period of time.) Make
them feel at home, and encourage
them when they make any gesture to-
ward participation. or toward express-
ing their own ideas. You will find
many who have never done anything
with their hands, many who will tell
you that they have no artistic ahility.
These are the ones who, if gently lured
into trying it anyway, just for “the
fun of it” without attracting too much
attention, heeome. the most enthusias-
lie when they actually hold in their
hands something which they have
Inade.

Watch for those who are especially
skilled, as possibilities for leadership.
l’ut their suggestions into practice
wherever feasihle.

Ilse the same method to introduce
them to other activities—dancing
classes, song fcsts. music listening
groups. games. and so on. As they he-
gin to feel at home. draw them into
the group planning.

The following hrief reports indicate
how some eonlmnnity departments are
proceeding with recreation for service-
men and their families.

Sewde

Teamwork

It's the team work in Anniston. Ala-
hama, hetween the special services
officer at Fort McClellan and the su-
perintendent of recreation. that has
made civilian-military relations in this
area outstanding. The whole range of
activities sponsored hy the city recrea-
tion department has hccn made avail-
able to the servicemen. Teams from
McClellan take part in the city leagues.
Swimming. golfing. softhall and other
facilities have been opened to the
men. The park and recreation hoard
has assisted in square dancing and
other social activities.

Although a servicemen's center is as
established hy the city during the early
days of the mobilization program. the
response did not justify its continua-
tion. The McClellan men, in the words
of General Cllristcnherry. wanted “to
meet community people. not just other
servicemen."

Music Productions

A cooperative undertaking between
a civilian recreation department and a
military highly
successful in San Diego, when the park
and recreation department and the

installation proved

Marine. Corps recruit depot pooled
efforts. in April. 1952. to present three
free performances of “An Evening
With liogcrs aml Hammerstein" at the
Marine Corps depot theatre.

Taking a clue from remarks made
at the National Music Council Decem-
her meeting hy Lieutenant Colonel
Frank M. llavcnport. chief of the army
recreational service hranch of the army
special services (lit ision. stressing civic
and military joint responsibility for
the cultural development of young men

and women in the service, the San

ltscasnmx



Diegans were able to produce two fine
shows for service personnel and one
free public performance, all of which
were received with popular approval
and critical acclaim.

The park and recreation department
supplied its famous Youth Symphony,
directed by Leo B. Scheer, assisted in
publicity and ticket distribution, and
saw to it that key figures in the local
music field were made aware of the
outstanding possibilities of such proj-
ects. The marines, through the c00p-
eration of commanding officer Major
General William T. Clement (since re-
tired at a higher rank), supplied the
theatre, a marine chorus of men and
women, a recruit chorus, a group of
talented soloists, two guest stars from
Los Angeles, and all necessary facili-
ties.

Preparing for the concert was mere-
ly one more in a year-around series of
activities for the seventy-member
Youth Symphony. The enthusiastic
high school and college-age musicians
enjoyed working with the military
artists immensely. The Youth Sym-
phony’s active board of directors, rep-
resenting leading San Diego citizens,
plans many more cooperative projects
with navy, marine and army units in
the future.

General Clement said of the event
that it “represents the ideal in coop-

crativc endeavor between civic and

military groups in this community,”
while San Diego’s Mayor John D. But-
ler called the concert another example
of the bonds that unite the city and the
Marine Corps recruit depot.

The “ :vening With Rogers and
Hammerstein” is but one of many co-
Operative projects of the civilian rec-
reation and service groups in San
Diego, but it points up particularly the
mutual advantages that an undertaking
in the cultural field, and especially in

music, may have in providing enter-

Ocronsn 1952

tainment and recreation for both the
public and military personnel. The
good will engendered between the city
and the marines is an investment with
equally long-lasting potential.

Fears Unfounded

When the Oxnard, California, recre-
ation department’s community center
was first thrown open for the exclusive
use of servicemen on Saturday night,
there was some fear on the part of
local residents that the venture might
lead to drinking and questionable con-
duct. With fingers crossed, the spon-
sors decided not to have the shore pa-
trol present until it was absolutely nec-
essary. However, Dick Abernathy, lo-
cal superintendent of recreation, re-
ports that the results have shown that
these fears were unfounded.

The Saturday night program in-
cludes a regular (lance plus ping-pong,
dominoes, cards, and other recreation
games. Volunteers serve as junior host-
esses, senior hostesses, reccptionists
and at the refreshments bar. Women’s
civic groups providc cakes, cookies,
sandwiches and coffee for refresh-
ments. Local merchants contribute
door prizes, and entertainment is pro-
vided by local talent.

During the week many servicemen
attend the recreation department’s
Light Opera Association, the square
dances, leather and ceramic classes and
other functions of the department.

Military Personnel and \Vives
Provide Leadership

The Memorial Youth Center Oper-
ated by the Roswell, New Mexico,
Recreation: Council serves the teen-
agers at the Roswell Air Base through
regular teen-center dances. Many of
the families of servicemen also partici-
pate in other program activities.

Almost all of the leadership at the
center is provided by military person-

 

Roller skating is pepular teen-age sport.
Why not include it in program; invite serv-
ice people to join group? Check with other
agencies, avoid duplication of activities.

nel or their wives, who are paid for
such services by the recreation coun-
cil. The use of qualified service per-
sonnel for community recreation lead-
ership has also been reported from a
number of communities.

Pamphlet Available

Mother, May I Go Out Dancing?- —
the pamphlet used by the Armed
Forces H05pitality Committee in Wash-
ington, D.C., for training junior host-
esses-——is available in quantities to any
community recreation department. This
is designed to give the hostess concrete
suggestions as to what to do, or what
not to do, at dances for service per-
sonnel. Prices are twenty-five cents per
copy in quantities up to nine; twenty
cents per copy for ten to twenty-five:
and fifteen cents each if more than
twenty-five are ordered. Orders should
be sent to Recreation Services, lneor-
porated, Armed Services Hospitality
Committee, Room 8. Old District
Building. Washington 4-, D.C.

307

 

Cymstand Catalog

A sixteen-page catalog on rolling
gymstands may be obtained from
Wayne Iron Works, Wayne, Pennsyl-
vania. Contained in the catal0g are
discussions of such features of Wayne
llolling Cymstands as safety codes,
maintenance, operation. visibility,
space saving, comfort and appearance.
Also included is a section devoted to
planning aids for gymnasium seatin".
and sample specifications for ordering.

 

Shuffleboard

The vacationers' popular outdoor
sport- -—-sl1ulllcboard r—-is coming in-
The result is a big revival of
interest ill the game. with many thou-

doors.

sands of lnew enthusiasts, young and
old alike. pushing a shuflleboard cue
for the first time. A new shuflleboard
set manufactured by the l)imeo-Cray
(.ompany, Dayton. Ohio. is about tun.
[birth of the regulation size. consists
of four lightweight aluminum cues and
eight discs, four red and four black.
They can be used in any place where
there. are thirty or more feet of

301:

straightaway space on a solid base.
Asphalt tile courts with built-in scor-
ing triangles can be obtained through
retail floor covering stores and in-
stalled in game rooms and basements.
However, a court can be painted on
any concrete surface by merely follow-
ing instructions included with a Dim-
eo-Cray set. The heavy-duty discs. spe-
eially treated to slide on asphalt tile
or concrete, and the four-foot cues re-
tail at $16.95. Also included with the
set are the official rules of the game.

Piano Carriers

“No help needed to move a piano"
describes the aceomplislnnents of the
Sutherland Piano Carriers, which at-
taeh permanently to both upright and
grand pianos, to permit quick and
easy moving of the instruments by one
person, without fear of tipping. Sets
for upright pianos consist of eastered.
all-steel brackets with five-inch rubber
tired wheels for front and back piano
corners. 0n the back corners. the
bracket arms extend diagonally to per-
mit passage through narrow doors.
Complete information and prices may
be obtained by writing the manufac-
turer, I. ll. Sutherland Supply Com-

pany. 2521 Kansas Avenue, South
Cate. California.

 

Rubber Plastic Paste

Flex-O-Fix, a pure rubber plastic in
a handy six-inch applicator tube, is
announced by Flex-O-Fix Sales, 17
North Wabash Avenue, Chicago 2, “li-
nois. This rubber plastic paste enables
anyone to mend, rebuild, seal, insulate
and waterproof any type of rubber,
fabric or leather products quickly and
easily. Waterproof gaskets, washers,
and so on, can be made by spreading
Flex-O-Fix evenly on a glass surface.
allowing it to dry in a sheet and cut-
ting it to the desired size.

In each Flex-O-Fix package there is
included a patch of sandpaper and an
extensive step-by-step, easy to follow
instruction folder on repairing and
treating many articles. Retail price for
the package is one dollar.

Uniform Hangers

All-American steel uniform bangers
which accommodate all of a player's
baseball, basketball or football gear in

 

one unit. and provide open air drying
for the equipment, are manufactured
by the American Playground Device
Company, Anderson. lndiana. These
hangers permit efficient handling and
longer life for equipment and save
storage space and time. Each hanger
weighs two pounds and costs $1.45.
An illustrated folder containing infor-
mation on these and other itcms of
dressing room equipment—checking
baskets. steel basket racks. lockers.
locker room seats. rubber foot baths.
cocoa matting. number sets, brass
checks and so forth—may be obtained
by writing to the American l’lay-
ground Device Company.

Recam'nox

 

Books Received

 

AEIIODYNAMICS FOR MODEL AIR-
PLANES; also MODEL AIRPLANE EN-
GINES, Donald K. Foote, A. S.
Barnes and Company, New York.
$3.00 each.

ART OF THE STORY-TELLER, TIIE,
Maric L. Shedlock. Dover Publica-
tions, Ncw York. $2.95.

CIIILD’S BOOK OF KNITTING, Edith Jay.
Greenberg, Publisher, New York.

$1.50.
EMBROIDERY DESIGNER’S SKETCH

BOOK, E. Kay Kohler. Pitman Pub-
lishing Corporation, New York.
33.00.

FAMILY LIFE EDUCATION IN SCHOOL
AND COMMUNITY, Elizabeth McHose.
Bureau of Publications, Teachers
College, Columbia University, New

York. $3.50.

GIRL’S BOOK OF SEWING, Jane Chap-
man. Greenberg, Publisher, New

York. $2.00.

LIFE INSURANCE ASSOCIATION OF
AMERICA, PROCEEDINGS OF THE FOR-
TY-FIFTII ANNUAL MEETING. Life
Insurance Association of America,

488 Madison Avcnue, New York 22.

LITTLE GOLDEN BOOKS: ALL ABOARD,
Marion Conger; BUGS BUNNY GETS
A JOB, Annie North Bedford; LIT-
TLE GOLDEN BOOK OF DOGS, Nita
Jonas; WALT DISNEY’S MICKEY
MOUSE AND HIS SPACE SHIP, Jane
Werner; Simon and Schuster, New

York. $.25 each.

MUSIC THERAPY, 1951, Proceedings,
National Association for Music
Therapy. Esther Goetz Gilliland, Chi-
cago Musical College, 64 East Van
Buren Street, Chicago 5. $3.00.

WOODWORK FOR TIIE BEGINNER, F rank-
lin H. Gottshall. The Bruce Publish-
ing Company, Milwaukee. $4.00.

SWIMMING POOL DATA AND REFERENCE
ANNUAL, 1952. Hoffman-Harris, In-

corporated,425 Fourth Avenue, New
York. $3.00.

TRAINING UNRULY BOYS TO EXCEL,
lvan W. Berquist. House of Edin-
horo, Boston. $3.00.

VITAL'IZED ASSEMBLIES—TWO HUN-
DRED PROGRAMS FOR ALL OCCA-
SIONS, Nellie Zetta Thompson. E. P.
Button and Company, New York.
$2.00.

WHERE TO RETIRE ON A SMALL IN-
COME, Harian Publications, Depart-
Incnt E-l, Greenlawn, Ncw York.

$1.00.

YOU AND YOUR AGING PARENTS—How
to keep your parents happy while
living your own life! Edith M. Stern
and Mabel Ross, MD. A. A. Wyn.
New York. $2.75.

OCTOBER 1952

    

Pamphlets

COLLEGE UNIONS—1952, Report of
Proceedings of the Twenty-ninth An-
nual Conference Of The Association
of College Unions. Edgar A. Whit-
ing, Secretary, Association of Col-
lege Unions, Willard Straight Hall,
Cornell University, Ithaca, New
York. $1.50.

COMPETITIVE ACTIvITIES FOR CIIIL-
DREN. The North Carolina Recrea-
tion Commission, Raleigh.

DIRECTORY OF DAY CARE AGENCIES IN
NEW YORK CITY. New York City De-
partment_of Health, 125 Worth
Street, New York 13. Free.

FOLK DANCE MEMORIZER, TIIE, Fred
Leifer. Fred Leifer, Tex Lightning
Dance Enterprises, 1583 East 98th
Street, Brooklyn 12. $1.

FUN AROUND THE CAMPFIRE, G. S.
Ripley. Boy Scouts of America, 2
Park Avenue, New York 16. $.60.

GOOD READING AHEAD! Professional
Staff Association, Boston Public Li-
brary, Boston, Massachusetts. $.25.

HEALTHY PERSONALITY FOR YOUR
CHILD, A. Children’s Bureau, Fed-
eral Security Agency, Washington
25, D. C. Free.

HI, SQUARE DANCERSl, Kenneth Fow-
ell. Kenneth Fowell, Director of Rec-
reation, Great Falls, Montana, $2.00.

HOW TO MAKE IT, a bibliography, Em-
ma Staudte. Curriculum Laboratory,
Teachers College, Temple Universi-
ty, Philadelphia 22, $.50.

INFORMAL GROUPS AND THE COMMU-
NITY, Hurley H. Doddy. Bureau of
Publications, Teachers College, Co-
lumbia University, New York. $.75.

LIABILITY FOR ACCIDENTS IN PHYSICAL
EDUCATION, ATIILETICS, RECREA-
TION, Howard C. Leibee. Ann Ar-
bor Publishers, Ann Arbor, Michi-
gan. $2.00.

LIFE ADJUSTMENT BOOKLETS: BABY-
SITTER’S HANDBOOK, Judy Flander;
FACTS ABOUT JUVENILE DELINQUEN-
CY, Ruth Strang; WIIAT IS HONES-
TY? Thaddeus B. Clark; YOUR BE-
IIAVIOR PROBLEMS, O. Spurgeon
English and Constance J. F ostcr.
Sciencc Rcsearch Associates, Chi-
cago. $.40 each.

MEASURING YOUR PUBLIC RELATIONS,
Herman D. Stein. National Publicity
Council for Health and Welfare
Services, 257 Fourth Avenue, New
York 10. $1.25.

MODERN PHILANTHROPY AND HUMAN
WELFARE. The Grant Foundation,
1441 Broadway, New York. Free.

“MOTHER, MAY I GO OUT DANCING?”
Recreation Services, Armed Services
Hospitality Committee, Old District
Building, Washington 4, D.C. 3.25.

NATIONAL SOCIAL WELFARE ASSEMBLY,
ANNUAL REPORT. National Social
Welfare Assembly, 1790 Broadway,
New York, Free.

OUTDOOR SCHOOLROOM FOR OUTDOOR
LIVING, TIIE, William Gould Vina].
Vinehall, R.F.D., Cohasset, Massa-
chusetts. $1.00.

PLANNING ELEMENTARY BUILDINGS FOR
SCHOOL AND COMMUNITY USE, Ar-
thur W. Clavenger. Bureau of Re-
search and Service, College of Edn-
cation, University Of Illinois, [Tr-
bana.

PLAYS FOR CIIILDREN. The Children’s
Theatre Press, Cloverlot, Anchorage.
Kentucky.

POLICIES AND PROCEDURES. North Car-
olina Recreation Commission, Ral-
eigh.

POLIO CAN BE CONQUERED, Alton L.
Blakeslee. Public Affairs Commit-
tee, 22 East 38th Street, New York.
$.20.

READINGS IN INTERGROUP RELATIONS,
Helen F. Storen. The National Con-

ference Of Christians and Jews, 381

Fourth Avenue, New York. $.25.

RECLAMATION PAYS AN EXTRA DIVI-
DEND. Bureau of Reclamation, Unit-
ed States Departlnent of the Interior,
Washington 25, D.C.

RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES FOR CRIP-
PLED CHILDREN, Lois Perrin. State
Services for Crippled Children, State
University of Iowa, Iowa City.
51.00.

RECREATION FOR THE AGING. The
North Carolina Recreation Commis-
sion, Raleigh.

RECREATION LEADERSIIIP, Walter L.
Stone and Charles G. Stone. William
Frederick Press, New York. $2.00.

REPORT ON BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
IN COUNCIL-MANAGER CITIES WITH
PARTICULAR REFERENCE TO DES
MOINES, A, Corbett Long. The City
Council of the City of Des Moines,
Iowa.

REPORT OF TIIE COMMITTEE ON FU-
TURE PROGRAM AS ADOPTED BY THE
NATIONAL SOCIAL WELFARE ASSEM-
BLY. National Social Welfare As-
scmbly, 1790 Broadway, New York
19. $.50.

RIIYTHMICAL MOVEMENTS AND EXER-
CISES, James S. Nicol]. Banks, Up-
Shaw and Company, Dallas. $2.50.

SCIIOOLS RESPONSIBILITY IN RECREA-
TION, THE. Michigan Inter-Agency
Council for Recreation, 400 Bauch
Building, Lansing 23, Michigan.

SCORER’S HANDBOOK OF THE AMERI-
CAN BASEBALL CONGRESS. American
Baseball Congress, Youth Building,
Battle Crcek, Michigan. $.15.

SEATTLE PLEASURE BOAT MOORAGE.
City Planning Commission, Seattle.

SINGING IS TIIE THING. Association
Press, 291 Broadway, New York 7.
3.50.

309

SHIT lllTs, Helen and Larry Eisenlierg.
Helen and Larry Eisenherg, 2-103
Branch Street. Nashville. Tennessee.
$.75.

50cm. AoEsev Rowan MEMBER ix-
STITl‘TES. llarleigh B. Treeker. Com-
munity Chests and Councils of
America, 8 West 40th Street, New
York 18.

Soxos To SING wITn RECREATlox IN-
STRUMENTS. lrving Cheyettc and Al-
hert Renna. Theodore Presser Com-
pany, Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania.
$.60.

STaExoTu FOR THE Lose Hus, Charles
E. Wilson. Superintendent of Doc-
umcnts, United States Government
Printing Oliiee, Washington 25, D.C.
$.35. "

STUDY or STATE ItECREATIos l.\' Cos-
SECTIOS WITII FEDERAL liESEavoms.
The Council of State Governments,

1313 East 60th Street, Chicago 37.

$1.50.

WATERLINES, KEY To DEVELOPMENT
or METROPOLITAN Los ANGELES,
Charles W. Eliot and Donald F.
Griflin. The Haynes Foundation.
2324 South Figueroa Street, Los
Angeics 7. 3.25.

\VEMoxo 0’ THE GREEN, Arthur Le-
Roy Kaser and others. Baker's
Plays, Boston.

WHEN You ARE IN THE Wooos, Fay
Welch. State University College of
Forestry, Syracuse, New York. Free.

YEAH BOOK 1950-51, Part 1. National
Jewish Welfare Board, 145 East
32nd Street, New York 16.

I —— —--‘—- -— T‘—

llllNlllilRllPT

Simplified Procedure
and Projects
9th Edition

by LESTER GRiSWOLD

o A umnpletcly detailed. abundantly il-
lustrated lmw-to-(to-it hook (in Itamli-
craft. Valuable as a handbook and text
lor the Cralt lhrvctnr and Teacher. thc-
lit-creation Leader. the Occupational
Therapist. and the lmlividunl Crafts-
man.

0 Explains with clear and simple instruc-
tions how to procrrd with any handi-
craft project . . . describm the tools
aml materials nctt'uary . . . and the
actual Itr‘p! inVOlvcd.

oAlter an introduction It" deli in
handicraft. the book cover! “as ctr)’.
Mikhimlinz. Ceramics, (km! Weaving.
Fabric Ikcnratioii. Lanidnry, lat-ather-
mu]: Metalwork. I'laallcl. “loving.
and “'cxxlwork.

0 Over 600 drawings and photographs
illustrate the book.

1951 6" x 9" ‘80 page:

Order lrom Booksellers and Cralt Supp?
Dealers or directly [mm the pnhlia r

Price: $5.35

inlueallonai discount allowed lnr quan-
tity outer.)

 

PRENTICE-HALL, INC.

70 Filth Avenue
New York ll, N.Y.

 

3H)

 

Magazines

 

AMERICAN CITY, June 1952
San Francisco's Sunset Community
Center. Paul Opperman.
July 1952
“Soft” Playground Surfacing, K. N.
Cundall.
BEACH AM) POOL, May 1952
The Gunitc Method, Roy W. Killings-
worth and John D. Hall.
A Voluntary Certificate of Compe-
teney.
Bathing Suit Disinfection.
June 1952
Low Cost Design in Municipal
Swimming Pools, llugh M. Me-
Clure.
For Sparkling Water Eliminate Al-
gae, William Berens.
Suggestions for Effective Beach Op-
eration, Mark L. Rennert.
July 1952
Swimming Pool Design for Better
llcalth and Sanitation, A. Ma-
theis.
Playground Equipment Boosts Swim-
ining Pool Patronage, William J.

Duehainc.

Testing Pool Water for Quaternary
Ammonium Compounds, F. R.
McCrumb.

August 1952

New Resuscitation Device.

Pool Filter Installations, Jean C.
Likehs.

A Swimming Pool Classification
Program, R. S. Jacobson.

Swimming Pool Design, Part ll, A.

Mathcis.
CALIFORNIA PARENT-TEACHER, June
1952
The Pied Pipers of 1932, Eugene C.
Peckman.

Family Fun in Summer, William

Frederickson, Jr.
For Sale Playgrounds, K. N. Cun-

dall.

CAMPle MAGAZISE, June 1952

Spiritual Values in Camping, Lowell
B. llazzard.

Goals for Camp Administration.
Austin A. Schuek.

JOURNAL OF THE AMERICAN ASSOCIA-
TION FOR HEALTH, PHYSICAL Enu-
(ZATION, RECREATION. May 1952
Summer Recreation li)’ Popular De-

mand. George M. Stuber.

Archery Safety Rules, Myrtle K.
Miller.

Sport Fans Are a Menace. Sidney
W. Rice.

A Close-up of School Camping.
George E. Raal) and J. Kenneth
Sllotts.

New Recreation Leaders Meet Their
Career, Jackson M. Anderson.

Hospital Recreation ls Unique. B. E.
Phillips.
I’AREsTs’ MAGAZINE, June 1952
Competitive Sports: Menace or
Blessing, Jack Harrison Pollack.
July 1952
Make Your Yard a Playground. D.
\V. Preston.
PARK MAINTENANCE. May 1952

Bruised Kiddies Lead to Rubber
Research.

Urge to Destroy ls Tremendous Cost
Factor in Parks, Frank V. Faul-

haler.
June 1952
Operation Cleanup, Louise Price
Bell.

Concessions that Follow the Crowds,
Helmcr Stark.

Crabgrass Dies, W. E. Zimmerman.

PARKS AND RECREATION, May 1952

Interpretation of Parks Through Use
of Visual Aid Materials, H. Ray-
mond Gregg.

Survey on Surfacing Under Fiscd
Apparatus.

Expanding Facilities Through 1 logo-
tiations, Lawrence W. llelgescu.

The Maintenance Mart.

June 1952

Naturc'Museum a Natural, Arnold
Peterson.

Outdoor Education in Ohio, Harvey
S. Cross.

The Maintenance Mart.
July 1952

Suppose Disaster Strikes,
M. Dean.

Of a Ball and a Tree, Ernest Y.
Bloluu.

America’s First Play Sculpture at
Oakland, Stanley L. Smith.

A Day at Camp, Milton Hagen.

The Maintenance Mart.

THE SCHOOL GOVERNMENT CHRONI-
CLE (London, England) May MC?

The Crafts and Personal Growth.

Mrs. E. W. Woodhead.
'l‘onn"s HEALTH, June 1952

You’re Never Old When There‘s
Something to Live For, Marc H.
llollender, M.D., and Stanley A.
Frankel.

The New Lifesaving Method, How-
ard Caxter.

August I952

Camp for the Crippled, Witt.

Be Healthy, Go Hostel, B. G. Yew-
hon.

Vernon

 

Books are the quietest and most
constant of friends; they are the
most accessible and wisest of conn-
sellors, and the most patient ol
teachers.

—Charles W. Eliot

RECREATION

 

Creating an Industrial Civilization

Edited by Eugene Staley. Harper and
Brothers, New York. $4.00.

Creating an Industrial Civilization
records in descriptive and narrative
form the proceedings of the Corning
Conference, held at Corning, New
York in May, 1951, under the joint
sponsorship of the American Council
of Learned Societies and The Corning
Glass Works, to consider the place of
human values in a world increasingly
dominated by the products of mechani-
cal technology. Burton Crane describes
the conference well in his New York
Times review when he states that “the
ninety-five educators, editors, artists,
architects, industrialists and ethnolo-
gists who gathered there (for what
must have been a college ‘bicker ses-
sion" on a stratospheric level) appear
to have agreed that our conflicts lead
to our dynamic way of life.”

As one of the four round-tables in-
to which the conference was broken
down was dedicated to Leisure and
Human Values in Industrial Civiliza-
tion, the recreation profession may
well wonder why no representative of
the recreation movement was invited
to participate. Perhaps we have'not
yet achieved “stratospheric” standing
in the eyes of the sponsors. 0n the
other hand the discussion on leisure
may have values for recreational lead-
ers largely because it was an unre-
hearsed discussion with no attempt to
influence or guide it on the part of a
recreation person.

Judging from this report of the con-
fcrcnce the discussion did not give
adequate coverage to the field of lei-
sure, the significant part which it plays
today in our whole social structure
and the extent to which it will deter-
mine our social organization of the
future. Its value to recreation is large-
1y one of revealing to recreation lead-
ers what the lay attitudes and lack of
knowledge a nd understanding are,
which the movement must meet and in
some instances work to change.

Included in the report is a “back-

OCTOBER 1952

new Publications

Covering the

Leisure-time Field

ground paper” on “Leisure in Indus-
trial America” circulated in advance of
the conference for use of those partici-
pating in the leisure round-table. It
was prepared by Reuel Denney and
David Riesman of the University of
Chicago and co-authors of The Lonely
Crowd. This is a most significant and
penetrating analysis of leisure prob-
lems today and their importance to
our society. It should be read by every
recreation leader in the country. It
is stimulating professional reading.—
Arthur Williams, Assistant Executive

Director, N RA.*

All Through the Year

Florence O’Keane Whelan. Hall and
McCreary Company, Chicago. $1.50.

This is a collection of songs, with
words, melodies and piano accompani-
ments, built around the natural activi-
ties of children. The tunes are original
in some cases and traditional or folk
themes in others. but all are simple
and should be appealing to the young
ear. There are songs about trains, air-
planes, the grocery store, the postman
and, of course, animals; about mother,
health and going to school; about the
holidays of the year; about rain and
snow, skating and skipping—usually
with indication of appropriate rhyth-
mic response. The book is in heavy
paper covers, with ring binding to in-
sure fiat pages when opened. Illustra-
tions of animals and of children at
play add to its attractiveness—Cer-
trude Borchard, Correspondence and
Consultation Service, NIiA.*

Folk Dance Guide

Paul Schwartz, Box 342, Cooper' Sta-
tion, New York 3, New York. $.50.
(Second edition.)

Comments on the growth of folk
dancing in American society are fol-
lowed by a brief directory of the folk
dance and square dance clubs in An-
chorage and Fairbanks, Alaska; Chi-

" National Recreation Association.

cago, Illinois; Lynn, Massachusetts:
West Caldwell, New Jersey; New York
City; and Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
A short bibliography of textbooks and
periodicals is included. '

The Manual of Corporate Giving

National Planning Association, Wash.
ington, D. C. $6.75.

This 398-page handbook, edited by
Beardsley Ruml, chairman of the NPA
Business Committee, in collaboration
with Theodore Geiger, NPA chief of
research, presents, for the first time in
readily accessible form, the practical
do’s and don’ts for use in planning
business contributions under the five
per cent tax exemption privilege of the
Internal Revenue Code.

I-I. Christian Sonne, chairman of the
NPA board of trustees, has urged cor-
poration officials to plan carefully their
programs of corporate giving for edu-
cational, scientific and welfare activi-
ties. This work is mainly concerned
with explaining the specific ways in
which gifts can be made to yield the
maximum benefits both to the recipient
and to the donor.

The Manual pools the suggestions of
the editors and of twenty-four other
distinguished authors—each of them
either an experienced donor, an ex-
pert in one of the main fields to which
corporations'make gifts, or a recog-
nized authority on the legal and ad-
ministrative problems involved in or-
ganizing and operating a five per cent
program.

Mr. Sonne said that NPA’s purpose
in issuing The Manual “is not to argue
the case for corporate giving or to
plead the needs and merits of any field
of activity or type of recipient organi-
zation.” He explained that it is to pro-
vide objective advice to the corporate
donor who has already deeided to
give. “Our interest in the five per cent,
and how it is spent, springs from the
conviction that the maintenance of pri-.
vate educational, scientific, and wel-
fare organizations and activities is
vital to the continued health of our
democracy. More private support of

311

such activities is imperative today
when private institutions are inercas-
ingly confronted with the dilennna of
fixed incomes and rising costs .
Moreover, an important benefit of ade-
quate private support is that it will
preserve and strengthen local decision-
making and control so vital to the
maintenance of effectively functioning
democratic institutions in our coun-
try.”

Community Services for
Older People

Wilcox and Follctt Company, Chicago.
$3.00.

Prepared by the Community Project
for the Aged of the Welfare Council of
.\letr0politan Chicago, under the aus-
piccs of the Wieboldt Foundation, this
study presents The Chicago Plan for
research and recommendations on the
needs of the elderly. Joseph Prender-
gast, executive director of the Nation-
al lleereation Association, says, “lts
analysis of recreation needs and serv-
ices and its recommendations for ex-
pansion of recreation programs for
this group appear to me to be sound
and should be stimulating and helpful
to communities throughout the coun-
try . . . ”

Whole World Singing

Compiled by Edith Lovell Thomas.
Friendship Press, New York. $2.75.
This little book of songs is dedicated

to the spirit of brotherhood among all

peoples, and is directed especially to
the children and youth of today. It in-
cludes words, music and piano accom-
paniment for nearly one hundred songs
from America, England, France, lre-
land, Sweden, China and Japan, and
some thirty other countries, with brief
descriptive and historical notes. There
are Indian, Jewish and Tyrolean songs:
songs of summer and harvest; of work
and play; of feasts and holidays; folk
songs, sacred songs, songs of friend-

 
 
 
    
 

IO! “IALOG WINK: 9‘99
W. 1. Volt Rubber Corp.
1600 [on 25th Street

loo Angst" It, Cal".

312

America?! gineét
Athletic (Squipment

IS BUILT BY

ship, of home, and of youth. lllustra-
tions introducing the different sections
are attractive.

Stories to Dramatize
Winifred Ward. Children’s Theatre

l’ress, Anchorage, Kentucky. $1.75.

llave you been wishing you knew
more about progressing from story
telling to story dramatization? llcre‘s
your answer—a book of stories and
story outlines, divided into age group-
ings, and containing most of the be-

loved tales of childhood. Miss Ward's

comments on each add flavor and
color.

The chapters on objectives, choice
of stories, and techniques will be valu.
able to any leader who understands
the inherent values of informal drama.

, The chapter on integrated projects is

a happy thought. A bibliography and
a well-organized index add to the use-
fullness of this excellent book.

Handicraft
Lester Griswold, Colorado Springs,

Colorado. $4.00.

Lester Criswold has been a leader in
the craft field for many years. He has
always practiced sincere and honest
craftsmanship and has been a leading
exponent of good design in the crafts.

The new ninth edition of his book,
Handicraft, reflects these fine qualities
on every page. It is a clear, simple and
instructive book that should be on the
bookshelf of everyone interested in
crafts.

To make the crafts easy to under-
stand, he includes many drawings, dia-
grams and photographs. These are hap-
pily placed so that all the steps in a
process are on the same page, a pre-
sentation which is of great help to the
beginner. lle can see at one glance all
the steps involved in the process.

llere you will find easy-to-under-
stand directions in ceramics, weaving,
cord weaving, leather, metal, wood-

     
 
  
   

~(«4~(—6€~6‘e«—<’-6<

New York to, (Hugo 10, lo: Angelo: ll

carving, woodwork. basketry, book-
binding, fabrie decoration, plastics and
lapidary. The basic principles and
processes are clearly given so that even
the noviec can learn these fascinating
crafts. Each is presented in a logical
manner. with true knowledge of fine
craftsmanship and design.

leathercraft is given the greatest
amount of space—one hundred thirty
pages. All the techniques of this inter-
esting craft are explained.

Next amount of space—eighty pages
——is given to metal work. Processes for
hammering, raising, piercing, etching,
chasing and cnameling are shown in
copper, pewter, silver and aluminum.

Woodworking is explained in fifty-
six pages. lfere will be found direc-
tions for carving, inlay, furniture mak-
ing and the making of archery equip-
ment.

Forty-nine pages deal with weaving
of various types, especially that of the
western lndian; while forty-five pages
are devoted to explaining interesting
methods of preparing clay, hand-
building. throwing, casting, decorat-
ing and firing, as well as how to build
a kiln.

The remaining crafts are given a
lesser amount of space; however, each
is presented in a practical manner.—
Frank A. Staples, Director of Arts and
Crafts, National Recreation Associa-
tion.

Do It Yourself!
Tricks, Stunts and Skits

Bernice Wells Carlson, Abingdon-
Cokesbury Press, New York. Cloth.
$2.00; paper, $1.35.

Written for the grade school age-
group, this book contains scores of
“life-of-the-party” tricks, with which
to amuse and confound other young
party-goers. Many group games are
described in casy-to-understand style,
and there are seventeen skits of vary-
ing types. This is a party stunt book
which youngsters themselves can use
easily, but it can also serve as a handy
guide for parents or leaders who need
to increase their repertoire of party
program ideas.

A Garden “’c Planted Together

Prepared by United Nations Depart-
ment of Public Information. Mc-
Craw-llill Book Company, New
York. $2.00.

Trygve Lie, in a foreword “to the
children of the world,” calls this book
"a primer of the works and aims of
the United Nations.” lt shows children
of many nations working to create a
garden, only to discover that they,
too, needed to study and plan. work
and share together to make it beauti-
ful. A United Nations Filmstrip of the
same name is also distributed by the
publisher.

Rscnmrtos

HELEN DAUNCEY
Social Recreation

ANNE LIVINGSTON
Social Recreation

MILDRED SCANLON
Social Recreation

FRANK STAPLES
Arts and Crafts

GRACE WALKER
Creative Recreation

Recreation Leadership Courses

Sponsored by the Nations; Recreation Association
an
Local Recreation Agencies

October, November and December 1952

Tyler, Texas Robert Shelton, Director, Parks and Recreation, City Hall

October 13-16

Bellaire, Texas
October 20-23

Tulsa, Oklahoma
October 27-30

Wichita Falls, Texas
November 10-13

Brownwood, Texas
November 17-18

San Angelo, Texas
November 20-21

Enterprise, Alabama
December 1-4

Dick Gage, Superintendent, Parks and Recreation Department

George M. Taylor, Director of Recreation Tulsa Park Department,
Board of Park Commissioners

Albert B. LaGasse, Superintendent of Recreation and Parks

Mr. William Brown, Superintendent of Recreation, City Hall

Mr. Neil McDonald. Chairman of the Youth Center Board, c/o
Insurance Agency, Naylor Hotel

Superintendent of Sehools

Columbiana W. W. Elliott, County Superintendent of Schools
Shelby County, Alabama

December 8-11

Butler County, Alabama
December 15-18

County Superintendent of Schools

Brunswick, Georgia Georgia Recreation Society

November 6

(Mrs. Livingston will be on leave of absence during most of this period)

Pocatello, Idaho John A. Clark, Rccreation Director, East Center Street

October 13-16

l’ittsburg, Kansas
October 20-23

State of Vermont Mrs. A. O. Brungardt, Vermont Director of Recreation, Mont-
October 27-November 7 pelier

Myrtle Beach, S. C.
November 1012

Miss Charlotte N. Robinson, Instructor of Health and Physical
Education, Kansas State Teachers College

South Carolina Recreation Conference

Klamath Falls, Oregon Robert E. Bonney, Superintendent of Recreation, City Hall

October 6-10

Redding, California
October 20-30

(Mr. Staples will be en route east. If interested in open dates on his schedule get in touch im-
mediately with Charles E. Reed, Manager Field Department, National Recreation Association,

315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10, N. Y.)

Merritt A. Nelson, Superintendent of Reereation, Redding Area
Recreation Department, City Hall

Governor’s Conference Mrs. A. 0. Brungardt, Vermont Director of Recreation

Montpelier, Vermont

October 20

Wadesboro, North Carolina Mrs. Dorothy P. Goodson, Supervisor Negro Schools of Anson
October 27-30 County

Durham, North Carolina lrwiu R. Holmes, W. D. Hill Community Center, 1308 Fayetteville
November 3-6 Street

Ashcville, North Carolina Mrs. Lucy Herring, Supervisor of Negro Schools, 91 Broad Street

November 1020

Niagara Falls, New York
December 1-4

Myron N. Hendrick, Director of Recreation, Department of Parks
and Recreation

Attendance at training courses eonducted by National Recreation Association leaders is usually Open to all who wish to at-
tend. For details as to location of the institute, content of course, registration procedure, and the like, communicate with
the sponsors of the courses as listed above. ,

r’

" &

Hints and Helps for the Fall Holidays

Material to aid you in your planning for Halloween and Thanksgiving cele-
brations is available from the National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth

Avenue, New York 10, New York.

 

Halloween

All Set for Halloween (P 10)—Lorge-scole,
outdoor suggestions and smaller-scale, in-

doorideos . . . . . . . . . $.15

Bring On Your Spooks (MB 1949)—Sugges-
tions for decorations and games . . $.10

Community Celebrates Halloween, The
(F- 108)—Reports from many cities, with sug-
gestions for the whole community and for

neighborhood offoirs . . . . . . $.15

For a Halloween Party (MB 580)—Gomes,
contests and fortunes for a party . . $.10

Fun for Halloween (P 78)—Porty plans
include decorations, invitations, pre-porty
gomes, octive gomes, quiet games, musicol
activities, stories, dromotics and a good bib-
liogrophy . . .x . . . . . . $.25

Games and Stunts for Halloween (P 113)
—|ncludes a dance, fortune-telling, and so

forth...........$.15
Ghosts and All (MB 625)—A party plon $.10

Halloween Gambols (P 118)—A short play
in which the host is none other than Mephi-
stopheles, and there are ghosts, goblins ond

witches..........$.10

Halloween Party for Chlldren, A (MB
1696)—House-to-house party wilh different
activities at every stop along the route $.10

Outline for Halloween (MB 2003)—Lofo-
yette, Louisiono, plans for grade parties $.10

Peter Pumpkin Eater (MP 202)—A children's
play, based upon the old nursery rhyme $.15

Terrlble Ghost Story, A (MB 267)—Chills
ond thrills abound in this short, but effective,
ghost stery . . . . . . . . . $.10

Wlndow Palntlng for Halloween (P 116)

—Suggestions for window pointing contests
e e e e e e e e e e e 

Thanksgiving

Captain's Dilemma, The (MP 89)—A ploy-
let based upon the famous courtship of
Miles Standish . . . . . . . . $.10

Children of the Americas (P 117)—A pog-
eont depicting, through song and dance,
historic periods of America . . . . $.10

Community Pageant for Thanksgiving
(MB2010) . . . . . . . . . $.10

Faith of Our Fathers (MP 46)—A Pilgrim
pogeont. The first port tells of the Pilgrims,
brings out clearly the signing of the May-
t1ower Compact and also contains a scene of
the first Thanksgiving. The second part tells

of the faith of our fathers in modern
times...........$.25

Family Party for Thanksgiving, A (MB
1578)...........$.10

For a Happy Thanksgiving (Reprinted from
RECREATION) — Suggestions for a simple
harvest community night consisting of songs,
dances and considerable pogeontry. Also
suggests other possibilities for harvest enter-
tainments and festivals . . . . . $.10

Harvest Home Thanksgiving Party (P
119)—Grond fun for a family celebra-

tion...........$.10

Program for Thanksgiving, A (P 120)—
Eight tobleoux with norrotors . . . $.10

Thanksgiving Ceremonial, A (MB 1421)—
For church, school, community auditorium
use. The Earth Mother and the Earth Chil-
dren toke port in a procession, followed by

groups of Pilgrims, pioneers and those who
share their offerings . . . . . . $.10

Thanksgiving Down on the Farm (MB
1892)—Decorotions and games . . $.10

Three Thanksgivings, The (MP 51)—A No-
vember humoresque of the Thonksgivings of
the past, present and future . . . . $.25

Turkeys In the Treet0p (MP 407)—Gomes
ond mixers for your party . . . . $.10

\

