 

New Publications

of the National Recreation Association
The Game Series Number]

Active Games for Live "Vires

Here is the booklet that summer playground leaders, camp counselors and vol-
unteer play leaders have been waiting for! Its thirty-two pages contain dozens
of children’s games, conveniently divided into suggested age ranges from six
to fourteen, for the guidance of the leader. Old games, new games---tag games.
relay games, ball games—games with or without equipment. Any adult, no
matter how inexperienced, can lead them with the aid of the explicit directions

given here. $.50

 

The Playground Series Number4

Simple Puppetry

The Playground Series is a “must” for the playground leader, presenting tips
on these techniques that ordinarily must be learned slowly, by trial and error.
This, fourth in the series, demonstrates that puppetry does not require great
skill in crafts or drama, but can be developed informally by any playground

leader. $.50

 

Other Titles in Series

No. l—The Playground Leader—His Place in the Program No. 2—lnformal Dramatics
No. 3—Storytelling 3.50 each Series $2.00

Starting :1 Recreation Progrmn in n Civilian Hospital
by Beatrice H. Hill

A book based on Mrs. Hill’s real-life experience in developing a recreation program in the Institute
of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Goldwater Memorial and Bellevue Hospitals in New York
City. It is a primer for those who wish to be of service in this new field-ma beginner’s guide in start-
ing a program which in time can perhaps become a recognized department in a civilian hospital.
it does not minimize the problems, but it does give practical suggestions for meeting them. A valua-
ble contribution in a neglected field.

Off press on or about November 10. 1952. $1.00

(Drtler I'rom
NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
315 Fourth Avenue New York 10, N.Y.

PORTER "0.33

COMBINATION

     
    

It’s a space saver! It’s a money-saver,foo!

Yes, here’s a Playground Combination Set that has been care-
fully planned to solve the problem of limited space. Small
playgrounds can install the Porter No. 38, and still provide
a wide variety of healthful exercise and fun for the children.

Look at all the apparatus this one unit affords! Two Stand-
ard See-Saws, one Horizontal Bar, two Swings, a Pair of
Flying Rings, one Trapeze, and one 16-ft. Porter Safety Slide
—plus the sturdy 10-ft. steel frame that’s galvanized inside

 

. . , WRITE FOR THE NEWEST
and out and held rigidly together for years and years With CATALOG OF pom“

Tested Malleable Iron fittings of exclusive Porter design.

The No. 38 Combination Set has price appeal, too. Write for E N G I N E E R E D
the attractively low figure, and complete specifications. Im-
mediate delivery!

TI'IE I. E. CORPORATION
: OTTAWA. ILLINOIS

MANUFACTURERS OF PLAYGROUND, GYMNASIUM AND. SWIMMING POOI. EQUIPMENT

Exclusive MAKERS OF THE WORLD-FAMOUS .IUNGI.EGYM>I< ETLLTJE'TNUiE
' Reg. U. 5. Pat. Off.

PLAYGROUND EQUIPMENT

NUVEM BER 1952 313

 
 
 
 
 
 
  

ED DURLACH'ER

Nationally known square
dance caller and teacher.
Originator al Souare
Dance Associates 'HONOR
YOUR PARTNER‘Albums,

2 NEW TEACHING AIDS
game Danced.
A ’ and Warm

Ed Durlacher brings you another important teaching aid.
Album 6 of the 'Honor Your Partner" series includes
three 12" records with full oral walk-through instruc-
tions for the Patty Cake l’olka Mixer. Rochester Schot-
tische, Tandem Rochester Schottische. Five Foot Two
Mixer Narcissus and The Paul Jones. Plus another l2“
record with music for each of the above played as nnly
the Tap llands can play. giving you the greatest dancing

 
    
     

UR PARTNER

cnioyment. °
"\I'elk-throutth" instructions for each dance are offered in Ed Durlacher's inimitable man- With the fin.” phonograph
ner for simplicity ln progressive teaching. Now everyone may enjoy these dancer to their fullest. on the markgf , , .fh.

Honor Your Partner
Eé  Very franklyJam sold on it i00%,
a  andlwillendorse it wherever i go."

Our Album 7 starts off with the fitting of rhythm instruments to the beat of the music “"93 moreofu'ba’EDDURL/ICHER

under the guidance of Ed Duriacher. “c then have Swanee River and Little Brawn lug be: to say about (be Rbylbmoster...

illustratm walking and marching; Pizzicato Polka, La Ciaconda and the Circus Callnp for n ,
trotting. fea ing and gallopiog: Hippity llop to the Candy Shag: Skip to My Lou. and Callers “3d teachers can be “He'd
Pop Goes t e Weasel for hopping. Shpging. and arching; The ‘lcphant \Valk and .\lys- the finest In hearing reception With

* ‘k ‘k i“
To those who teach rhythms to the youngest in schools. recreation departments and day schools . .
You've esked us for it . . . Now here it is! W

ileIrinsa fo’rI  walkjolg‘; gpr‘ingtime,f raga-dot gptgng. Tit-tWillow. .‘thckin Biad, arm the gnarl-“MASTER. ouydoo” a, we”
'owers t at com in t e prinztime or i an ower in erpre ations; an en 5 wi - - .
Jingle Bells and The Skaters \Veltz for special occasions. ‘15 mdof’" "5 (1.3m? or [one at. A“-
Three 12" records (six sides) . . . just acked with what you have wanted end sought peaks ls exceptional. It can either
for so very long. And. of course. 'you and t youngsters will thrill to the music played by whisper or shout without distortion:
the Top Hands. It's really a must. I have used the “HY-“[“A E . '
lath these wonderful albums are brought to you b the same people who produced . . '_ 5T R m a
the famous HONOR roua mama: square dance olhums. regulation Size armor? with Over 600
All records guaranteed learn more about the [eenTgersqu the {129‘ w”? perk“
against breakage. "apolitical; mam“ HONOR YOUR PARTNER albums. “5" ‘5- ‘5, m“ "‘9 P “J” “"1
ronrvrm Write for a descriptive folder. R-P-M- retarding, AT ANY 5933:!) DE-
smm and you can slow up or increase
   the beat of your music with a flip of
DEPL “.12 magic“, NEW you; the linger. The arrwrtatasrrn is the

machine that helps you in your work,
out merely plays your records."

AN EASY WAY TO CLEAN SHOWER ROOMS AND "I! RHYYHMISYER Is the world's most ver-

satile pertains phonograph and Is last locom-

  " in; the choice of recreation directors tor
without hard rubbing. Simply sprinkle

every Itlnd of Indoor and outdoor actlvlty . . .

e mnnnns: Powerlul amplifier and speaker
accommodates 100:: people in auditorlum,
gymnasium, ballroom. etc.

0 notations: Simply plug your trumpet
speakers directly Into your RHYTHMASTER
for use on athletic field. etc.

0 By plugging a microphone Into input pro-
vided. the recreatlon director can super-
lmpose his voice over the selection being
played. and ac-
cent the record
with personal
comments and
instructions.

     
    

powder on damp sur-
lace. mnp lightly. and
flush with clear water.
'liemoves rust stains.
lime deposits. soap.
all. body grease and
algae formation. 1
'Minlmlzes condi- ’ "ninth? "MN,

tions that breed gm] lever Increases or

decreases speed
IPread lnlectlous
Items. 0113mm,” to at ANY RECORD

1 o J hands. clothing. floors. innrgasimgrw
. .6 '  . drains. .OdOTlt'II.

" ' ' ' There's nnthing else
like it! It Works like
a charm even where
hand mlihing with or-

(I inary cleaners has
failed.

  
 
 
 
 
 

I
I
I
l
I
l
I
I
I
I
t
I
I
I
I
I
I

 

   

  

BERMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY
719 Superior Street Toledo 4, Ohio

( ) Please send lree sample at Sol-T-Klenr.
( ) Please send quantity prices.

 
       
 

NAME
FIRM

STREET
CITY & STATE

 
 

Write for (REE Cotologm

REK-O-KUI’ co,

 
   
 

WRITE FOR lllERAl
(REE SAMPLE

 
 

l-.

 

314 ercnmrms

NOVEMBER, 1952

Editor in Chief, JOSEPH PRENDERGAST
Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON
BUSINESS MANAGER, ROSE JAY SCHWARTZ

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Recreation Administration, GEORGE BUTLER
Program Activities, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

Vol. XLVI Price 35 Cents No. 6

On the Cover

“Child 'of the pure, unclouded brow
And dreaming eyes of wonder!
Though time he fleet and I and thou
Are half a life asunder,
Thy loving smile will surely hail
The love-gift of a fairy-tale.”
From Lewis Carroll’s Through the Looking
Glass and What Alice Found There.

Photo by Edward Zychal, Bristol, Pennsylvania.

Next Month

The December magazine will carry the highlights,
news and pictures of the 1952 National Recreation
Congress in Seattle and a feature article, “Are
Highly Competitive Sports Desirable for Juniors?”
which presents the conclusions and suggested prin-
ciples from the report of the national committee ap-
pointed to make a study of this subject.

There will also be holiday program ideas for crafts
projects, a handkerchief party for children, and dec-
crating tips; and “The Influence of Joseph Lee” in
the growth and deveIOpment of community recrea-
tion in Baltimore, Maryland.

Photo Credits

Page 321, Sun Valley News Bureau; 322, (tOp) Jim-
my Price Studio, Columbia, South Carolina, (bot-
tom) Lefcbvre-Lucbke, Green Bay, Wisconsin; 323,
Willamalene Park and Recreation District, Spring-
field, Oregon; 324, Thomas Airviews, Bayside, New
York; 325, (tOp) Squire Photos, Dallas, Texas, (bot-
tom) Parks and Recreation Department, Salinas,
California; 329, SC Photo, University of Southern
California, Los Angeles; 334, Morton Photographs,
San Francisco; 339, Recreation Department, Ogden.
Utah; 341, D. K. Scott, Rutland, Vermont; 347,
Kansas City Star and Mrs. Charles Brown; 352,
Indiana University News Bureau, Bloomington, Indi-
ana; 355, Morrison, Portland, Maine, Sunday Tele-
gram and Sunday Press Herald.

 

 

RECREATION is puhlished monthly except July
and August by the National Recreation Association,
a service organization supported by voluntary c0n-
tributions, at 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10,
New York; is on file in public libraries and is
indexed in the Readers’ Guide. Subscriptions $3.00
a year. Canadian agency, G. R. Weleh Company,
Ltd., 1149 King Street West, Toronto 1, Ontario;
Canadian subscription rate $3.85. Re-entered as
second-class matter April 25, 1950, at the Post
Oflice in New York, New York, under act of
March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special
rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act
of October 3, 1917, authorized May 1, 1924.

Advertising and Production Office: Jones Press,
Fifth and Fifth South, Minneapolis 15, Minnesota.

Space Representatives: [1. Thayer Heaton, 141
East 44 Street, New York 17, New York; Mark
Minahan, 168 North Michigan Avenue, Chicago,
Illinois; Keitb H. Evans, 593 Market Street, Suite
304, San Francisco 5, California.
Copyright, 1952, by the
National Recreation Association, Incorporated

Printed in the U.S.A. 3%.:
°Tradc mark registered in the U. S. Patent Oflice.

NOVEMBER 1952

MAGAZINE 0F

   
    

THE RECREATION MOVEMENT
CONTENTS

General Features

Know How to Play? (Editorial), Irving R. Murray ...... .. 317

Scottish Grace ...................................................... .., ........... .. 318
The Spirit of Thanksgiving—On Our Knees,

Dorothy Ashby PownaII ................................................ .. 321
Reality-“Through the Dance, Richard Kraus ................ .. 326
Family Recreation ............................................................ .. 340
Hobbies Made Profitable for theuDisabled,

Dr. Herbert Rusalem .................................................... .. 346
Helena G. Hoyt .................................................................. .. 348
What Good Is One Vote? ................................................ .. 358
The Church and Recreation .............................................. .. 358
The Family Turns to an Age-Old Sport, Ruth Jaquemine 365
Sign Up Grandmal, Margery Wells Steer .     366
Church Recreation Institute, Francis Sugrue ................ .. 371

Administration
Construction of Swimming Pools, George D. Butler....  322
A Turtle for Ride, Slide or Straddle, Charlotte Battle  329
A Coasting Chute, H. S. Kennedy .................................... .. 330
Recreation in a Children’s Hospital,
Frances Brallier Ewing ................................................ .. 331

Skiing Need Not Be Expensive, James F. Herdic, Jr. .... .. 341
Understanding Through Discussion, William C.

Robinson ....................................................................... .. 350
Cooperation—--At Its Best, Keith A. MacDonald .............. .. 351
My Maintenance Man, Thomas C. Miller ........................ .. 353
To Attract Industry—Be Attractive ................................ .. 354
Recreation Workshop, Stanley Silver .............................. .. 360
Are You Pulling Your Own Weight?

Mortimer H. Morris ...................................................... .. 362

Program
Candle Making ...................... .i .......................................... .. 333
Christmas Programs Through the Years .......................... .. 334
St. Mary’s Park Recreation Center .................................. .. 336
The Community Theatre “Box thce” .. .......................... .. 339
Try Something Different! ................................................ .. 342
Horseback Serenade, Richard Hartt ............................... .. 344
Making Music Tangible, Dr. Elin K. Jorgensen .............. .. 349

Baseball for Boys Under Twelve, John H. Crain, Jr. ..... .. 355
Aids for Your Sports Program for Girls,

Helen Dauncey ................ .1 ............................................ .. 359
Regular Features

Letters  ......................................................................... .. 319
Things You Should Know ................................................ .. 320
Personnel—In-service Training Program ...................... .. 338
-——Personnel in Recreation, Paul F. Douglass  356

On the Campus .................................................................. .. 352
Recipes for F un—“Giving” Parties ................................ .. 363
Suggestion Box .................................................................. .. 367
A Reporter’s Notebook ..................................................... .. 370
Recreation Market News .................................................. .. 372
Listening and Viewing ...................................................... .. 373
Books Received .................................................................. .. 374
Magazines and Pamphlets ...............................................  374
New Publications  ...................................................... .. 376
Recreation Leadership Courses .................. ..Inside Back Cover

315

 

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION

A Service Organization Supported by Voluntary Contributions
JOSEPH PRENDERGAST. Exeeutit'e Director

 

OFFICERS

 

Ono T. Manchu...“
Pam. Moo-La. Ja.........
Mas. Ocoasr L. Msus......

Susan M. L“. .Third Vice-Presidrot and Secretary oi thc Board
Avatars M. Masssa. . . . . .. . . . .
Gustavus 1'. Run. . . . . . . . .
Joann Paasroaacasr. . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . .Chsirmen oi the Board
o o o o o a o o o o o o .Firlt Vin-PrCSEdCIIt

.............Trrasurcr
. . .. .. .... .Treasurer Emoritns

. .Sccond Vice-Presidrnt

 

o...-....a-Secntuy

BOARD OF DIRECTORS

F. V. H. Aoaats........................Nev York. N. Y.
F.6ll“BIN“...--.a......................Boston. 
Mas. Roaaar Vooos Buss................Vashiogton. D. C.
Mas.ArrHua G.Cuataau..................]achsonville.Fla.
VII-1"” Ho D"l’ooo'nnttoooUntnotnnnooONO. YDrh.N. Yo

 P.  o". . . . O O . . . . O O . . . O . O . O . O   N. Y.
  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  
MRS. PAL'LGALMCIIII.........ouo.o.o....-..Omlllt. Nth!-

Rolaeruurr...........................Baltinaorc.Md.

Mas. Norman Hano‘rn. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .i-‘itchhnrg. Mass.

hits. Chants V. Htclox. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michigan City. iod.

MssJortN D. Jauasos.......... . . . . . . . . . ..Beilport.N. Y.
SUSIN  L‘ztoooooonoolonooooolooooonoINe' YDII.N.Y.
One 1'. Haunt........................Phiiadclphia. Pa.
CatLF.Hannah..........................Au5uate.Mr.
.‘iits.0coaN L.Mms.....................NeIrYork.N.Y.
Paul.Moon.Jan.......................Jertcy City. N. J.
Joan-st PIENDIIGAIY ......................'eIr YahN-Y-
Lists. SIGHUND Snan..................Sen Francisco. Caiii.
Guarr'l'rrs'onll” . . . . ....................'orotoo.Conn.
Mas. WILLIAM Van Aun..................Philsdeiphia. Pa.
J. C. WaLsH.............................Yonhers. N. Y.

Ftaoaascr. M. Wauuao. . ... . ... .. . . .... . .NeIr York. N. Y.

 

HEADQUA RTERS STA FF

Exocntivn Director’s OEcn
Gaoaca E. Dtcau THouas E. Rrvus
Hana Hautsosr Aussua WILLIAM!

Amara H. Vluosr

Comspoodonco and Consnitation

Porsonnel Servicn
WILLA“: C. Suruaauno

Man Guaasnar Auazo B. JENSEN

Rosoarch Deptrtnsont
Gaoaca D. Bonn

Service to States

WILLIAM M. Hat Huoto Larssaor

Areas and Facilities—Planning all Sartrys
Lasua Lvncss

“"5" Dawn J. Dmoss

Clonal A. Nastrr‘r
Gannon-e Boscssaeo Eosra Baaucssn

Program Service

Vucmu Mussauaasr Man Qusn

Rocrot tio-n Ht gazino
Doaomr Donamsosr

Spocitl Pnhiications C. E. Burn

Rosa Jar Sustain Moan; McGarm

Work with Voiuntoors
E. Baaratca Smarts
Mason" Danasvon'ss

Fioid Dopartrnont

Cuaaue E. Run
Jauas A. Maotsotr

Roasts It. Cantu Hausa G. How

Kotbcrrnr F. Barker Menoriai
Secretary for Vol-sen all Giris
Huts M. Damrcar

Errrration Leadership Training Conner

Runs Ersuas Arms Ln'mcaron
Human Salmon Fuss. A. Star-tat
Guca Watt as.

 

DISTRICT REPRESENTATIVES

Novr Engilnd Dictrict
Yawn It. Hamsooasn. .Bonosr. Mass.
(Present address. . .Nev York)

Middle Atlantic District
JOHN W. Faust. . . . . .Eaat Orango. N. J.
chstuo S. Vasm'ra. .NeIr York. N. Y.

Croat Lahoe District
JOHN Jo Mo o o o o o o o oT°lcd°I 
loans 1.. Plasma. . . . . . .Medison. Wis.

Sonthorn District

Mid wost Dis trict

Aarstua Tools. . . . . . . .Kanses City. Mo.

Southwest District
Harrow "an Aasoau. . . . . .Daliss. Tes.

Miss Manson Panel. . . . .Alexandrie. Ve.
Rat"! VAN Fun. . . . . .Ciearsrster. Fle.

Paciic Northwest District
Win.an ii. Sstuaaaao. . . . .Scsttle. Vash.

Paciiic Southwost District
LYNN S. Roots". . . . .Los Angcles. Celii.

 

At'iiliate Membership

A‘liato membership In tho Nstlonal
Recreation Associstioo is open to sil non-
pront private and pohiic organisations
whose inaction is wholly or primarliy the
provision or promotion oi recreation serv-
ices or Ihich loci-do recreation as en in:-
portaot pert o-i their totel program end
whose coop-erstion in tho work oi the ssso-
cietioo would. in the opinion oi tho esso-
ciatioo's Board oi Directore. issrthrr tho
oods oi the ostionel recreation movement.

Active Associate Membership

Active essociato membership in the
Nationel Recreation Association is open to
all individuals who are ectiveiy engsgrd
on e inll-tinse or part-time otnployed hasis
or as voiuotecrs in e nonproGt private or
pnhlic recreation organizetion and Ihotc
cooperatioo in tho vorh oi the essocietion
'oold. in the opinion oi tho association's
Boerd oi Diroctors. iurther the ends oi the

netionei recreetion tnovenscn t.

Contributors

The continuation oi tho srorh oi the
National Recreation Association irons yrar
so year is mede possihie hy the spirndid
cooperation oi severai hnndred volunteer
sponsors throu hoot the country. end the
generous contri rations oi thousands oi su -

ters oi this movement to bring heait .

appinrss and creative living to the boys
end giris and the men end women oi
Anserice. ii oss wouid like to ioin in the
support oi t is movement. on may send
your contribution direct tn the association.

 

ciea. public and private, to the end that every child
in America shall have a plaee to play in safety and
that every person in America. young and old. shall
have an opportunity for the best and most satisfy-
Ing use oi his expanding leisure time.

The National Recreation Association is a nation
wide. nonprofit. nonpolitieal and nonsectarian civic
organization. established in I906 and supported by
volunta contributions. and dedieated to the serv-
lee of al reereation executives. leaders and agen-

For further information regarding the assoeiation's aerviees and membership. please write to the
Executive Direetor. National Reercation Assoeiarion, 315 Fourth Avenue. New York M. New York.

 

 

 

316

 

[lacuna-non

Know How to Play‘.Ne

Most of us don’t. Perhaps we think
we do; but in point of fact most of
us can’t. We don’t play because we
lack the know-how.

That was a tragically deceptive ad
in the paper the other day: “Trade in
your piano as a down-payment on a

TV set,” it urged. The rest of the'

copy made this transaction sound like
the first approach to new heights of
creative living.

But if the c0pywriter had been en-
tirely frank with us he must have writ-
ten: “Trade in your piano as a down-
payment on a TV set. You might as
well facc the fact: you’ll never be a
musician—you just don’t have it in
you. Stop annoying the neighbors with
‘Chop-Sticks!’ The only talent you've
acquired through your piano lessons
is that of ensconcing yourself at the
piano stool. Put that talent to work
on your far more comfortable living
room sofa! Buy a TV set!”

The salt has lost its savor if what
we do in the namc of recrcation is any
criterion. We are a nation of spec-
tators, not participants. We don’t play;
we sit and watch while others play.
We are squatters, not players.

It is estimated that twcnty-two per
cent of a lifetime is leisure time. And
what do we do with this twenty-two
per cent of our lives? We squander it,
most of it. We throw away our most
precious hours, the time that is unique-
ly ours, to do with as .we like. So
the salt loscs its flavor and life be-
comes not only intolerably dull but
frightfully expensive as well. Last year
Amcricans spcnt over fivc billion dol-
lars on commercialized sports. Some
eighty-five million of us went to the
movics each week, to support a Holly-
wood payroll of more than five hun-

*From a sermon by Irving R. Murray, of

First Unitarian Church, Pittsburgh. given at
All Soul’s Church, New York City.

NOVEMBER 1952

Irving B. Murray

dred million dollars annually.

Why don’t we stand on our own
feet and cast about for something bet~
ter—something that we can make with
our own hands, out of the design of
our own hearts and minds? Why, in-
deed, do we crawl from the tavern TV
to the cinema to the prize ring to the
night game and thence wearily home
to bed? Invigorated? No! And we
take it!

Why?

The beginning of the trouble will
be found in the seventeenth century,
at which time it was held that work,
especially profitable work, is the road
to salvation, whilc pleasure is the road
to eternal 'torment. All such generali-
zations about an epoch must of course
be taken with a grain of salt. None-
tlieless it is basically true that the
Puritans regarded work—one might
almost say thcy regarded work alone——
as virtuous, and thought of the pur-
suit of pleasure as deceptive and dan-
gerous if not deadly.

Tlle Puritan doctrine of work, more
than anything else, built America—

. crossed the oceans, ploughed the con-

tinent, harnessed the rivcrs, dug the
mines, established the factories. It
was a necessary doctrine in the seven-
teenth century and for some decades
thereafter. In frontier America men
and women had to work from sun-up
till sun-down—they had to work every
minute of every hour of the day, in
order to survive. Moments stolen for
play were a flirtation with death, in
literal truth.

Now all that is changed. We have
margins that permit recreation. The
machine and the assembly line, indeed,
require it. In colonial America the
craftsman found great joy in his work.
Let us not deceive ourselves: there is
no such joy, no such self-realization
in the assembly line. Men must have

recreation today. But Puritanism has
such staying-power—its doctrine of all
work and no play, has such a depres-
sing durability despite its manifest ir-
relevance to our situation—that wheth-
er he requires recreation. or not, man
of today cannot play with a clear con-
science. He plays, if at all, with a
sense of guilt. He stubbornly insists
that play is wicked, that only work
can be good.

Perhaps this does add spice to some
kinds of play. Alas, as of old the spice
trade attracts all kinds of businessmen,
some good, some bad, and too many
of both! Recreation has been commer-
cialized in industrial America; in part
because we find it so hard to believe
anything can be good which doesn’t
make money, and still more because
we do not teach the young to make
their own fun. ,

So the Lynds found Middletown “re-
peating insistently that work is an in-
herently honorable thing by which
other activities are measured; that no
amount of labor is sufficient to wrest
adequate sustenance from a niggardly
environment; that group welfare is
measured in terms of money prosper-
ity, and that too much leisure for ‘the
common man’ is to be feared as dele-
terious to his character and retarding
to the welfare of the whole group.”

No wonder Arthur Katona warns
us: “It is when too much fun is bought
and sold, when the market place be-
comes the hub of recreation, when
cold cash replaces warm friendship on

the basis of play—that harm is
done.”‘l‘

Nothing is more needful at this
time than that we Americans should
be re-created, reborn in the love of
all that is dear and warm and moving
in human nature, renewed in respect
for the dignity and the elemental
rights of all men everywhere, restored
to the.faith of democracy co’nfidently
espoused and adventuresomely, vic-
toriously pursued. But to be re-created
we shall need recreation. We need to
be reborn in play, lest the really se-
rious concerns of our civilization per-
ish, for lack of renewal in simple rec-
reation.

Marjorie B. Greenbie has given us

I!

TFrom “Let’s Have Workshops for F ellow-

ship,’f RECREATION, November 1951.

317

sound advice on this score. “Because
happiness is so personal,” she writes.
“there is only one place for a man to
begin his search for it, and that is
in himself. The doctors of leisure now
talk of equipment for the use of spare
time, endowments for community rec-
rcation, swimming pools, workshops.
All these things are good. But the pri-
mary equipment for leisure consists
in the possession of two eyes, two
ears, two hands. and two feet, with the
addition of numerous other items such
as a heart, a memory, and a tongue—
so long as they are all your own, and
not mortgaged to any mass interest,
mass habit, mass advertising, or mass
hoocy whatsoever. One can get along
with a fraction of this equipment, if
one runs it for one‘s self, for onc’s
own satisfaction. But some personal
possessions of this sort are funda-
mental, and if a man has all the Lord
usually provides, he has so much
equipment for having a good time that
it is a wonder he ever puts himself
out to get any more.”

What is that but—~“Thc Kingdom
of God comcth not with observation.
Neither shall they say, Lo here! or,

lo there! for, behold, the Kingdom of
God is within you.”

Self-acceptance — with an am u sed
candor, a chuckling kind of frankness
and realism—sclf-acceptancc with hu-
mility, not self-humiliation; that is the
first requirement of our learning to
play.

It is perfectly clear that many of us
will not play because we fear to make
fools of ourselves. But shall we go on
dcnying ourselves the fun of squash or
the violin or carpcntry or whatever,
just because we are afraid someone
will catch us making a mistake? Re-
member Tom Slade, Roy Blakely and
l’ceWee Harris of our boyhood books?
Pechc used to say, “Ccc \Vhiz, cvcn
Edison made mistakes!” The star, the
virtuoso and thc master-builder are
made by learning from mistakes. Had
they been afraid to make fools of
themselves they would have remained
unknown—~and unhappy. There’s no
way of dodging it: if you’re to get
any fun out of life you’ll simply have
to run the risk of revealing to the
world at large the fact that you are
human, too.

Play helps us give ourselves in fel-

lowship. “In a world that has become
a sea of troubles,” Arthur Katona has
said, “good fellowship in recreation
may be a happy anchorage, for its
own sake, and as rchperation. so that
we may better cope with the sca.”I

Many believe, indeed, that we are
“at sea” precisely because we have lost
the arts of fellowship, somehow spilled
them out and lost them on the long
trek from the European village to the
American industrial city.

We must recover them, in play. In
some sense we do not know how to
play because we have forgotten how
to be neighborly. The reasoning. then.
is circular, for it is pr0poscd that
we regain our ncighborliness through
playing together, while learning how
to play in trusting our neighbors and
ourselves with our neighbors.

It is because of this paradox that
our situation is so far from hopeless.
The paradox is an invitation to play.
Come into the circle, then! What
game shall it be? You name it! lt's
all the same, so long as it brings us
together.

IFrom “Let's Have WorkshOps for Fellow-
ship," RECREATION. November, 1931.

 

Scottish Grace

 

 

318

Old English Melody

 

Some hac meat and canna eat.
And some wad cat that want it:
But we hac meat. and we can cat.
And sac the LOl‘tl bc thankit.
“Roman lluaxs

(Sing this as a "round" at 3.our Thanksgiving table-J

This also is called “The Selkirk Grace," for it was first uttered
at the table of thc l'iarl of Selkirk in 1793.

RECREATION

in

"I Hate It”
Sirs: ,

I get RECREATION magazine but I
hate it. It’s too damned stimulating.
Makes me want to work and I’ve got
enough of that commodity now.

MIKE LEWIS, Cabell County Recre-

ation Board, Huntington, West Vir-

ginia.

Paraplegic l'rogrulll
Sirs:

We would very much appreciate re-
ceiving a copy of the September 1950
issue of RECREATION, in which an arti-
cle appeared, entitled, “Square Danc-
ing for the Handicapped,” written hy
Ed Durlachcr. This material will prove
of invaluable assistance to us in our
efforts to further serve our members,
all paraplegic veterans.

HARRY A. SCHWEIKERT, JUNIOR, Ex-

ecutive Secretary, Eastern Paralyzed

Veterans Association, New York.

Literature
Sirs:

We continue to enjoy RECREATION
magazine. The articles are more and
more interesting, and we are suhscrih-
ing to it for all of our centers.

In our discussion relative to recre-
ation literature at the Congress last
year, we spoke of the availability of
resource material at training sessions,
if you recall. I hope you have been
able to increase the number of displays
and make these displays known, per-
haps through an article in the maga-
zine. I find that people are requesting
more help with their recreation prob-
lems, and wanting books for refer-
ence. Also, the number of training
courses where people are stimulated to
want more material, is increasing. and
thus the opportunities for displays and
sales.

NOVEMBER 1952

//

 
  
 

    

l‘.
,.m a”: -

'.' .q-:-:-';. 9.31;" I I:
[/I‘})/Ill’.£r£It/"*n
’IIII/ [112!)I'IKZ‘EIII'I,”
qu/ [It’ll/III/Zz/yn

it”!!! "A /
?II?’,,’/€“%-'"’ l”: '2

ERS

           
  

Would it be possible for the Na-
tional Recreation Association to be a
central source of supply for recreation
material? As it is now, one must order
from a large number of sources in or-
der to have a representative library.
Frequently all sources of supply are
not known. You have a very good con-
tact with people whodesire this infor-
mation, particularly through the maga-
zine.

DOROTHY J ONES, Supervisor, Recre-

ation Centers, Columbus, Ohio.

Armed Services
Sirs:

The February 1952 issue of RECRE-
ATION, the National Recreation Asso-
ciation’s magazine, carries several
articles by members of the Special
Services Division, Office of the Adju-
tant General, Department of the Army.
It would be appreciated if we might
receive three (3) additional copies of
this issue. RECREATION is'a splendid
publication and is read with much in-
terest by this division.

MAJOR GENERAL WILLIAM E. BER-

GIN, Adjutant General, U. S. Arrny.

Sirs:

Upon a recent visit to Oklahoma
City and a visit with the Community
Council, my attention was directed to
the reprint of “The Air Force Takes
to the Farm,” from RECREATION, May
1952. Allow me to commend you and
your stafir for a job well done. The
foreword by Mr. Joseph Prcndergast,
Executive Director, was so inspiring.

M/Se'r. R. P. BODIN, USAF. Vance
Air Force Base, Enid, Oklahoma.

Iloys l‘llllls

Sirs:
We find RECREATION of great assist-
ance to us in preparing our publica-

tion, the Keynoter, which goes out to
all high school boys throughout the
country who are members of Key Club
International, service groups sponsored
by Kiwanis International.
ELSIE M. FARR, secretary to J. Frank,
McCabe, Director of Key Clubs,

Kiwanis International.
A Broadcast
Sirs:

The ofIice of International Broad-
casting of the United States Depart-
ment of State would like to secure
permission to make radio use of ma-
terial contained in the article, “The
Handicapped Co Camping,” by Marllys
Victor, which appeared in the January
1952 issue of RECREATION.

This would be used in connection
with our non-commercial broadcasts to
and within world-wide areas, exclu-

sive of the United States.
EVELYN EISENSTADT, International

Radio Program Division.

“'alter Sports
Sirs:

I have noticed, through the months,
an increasing emphasis on water ac-
tivities in RECREATION. This emphasis
is in keeping with national trends.
There is much fun to be had on the
water and recreation workers will sure-
ly “miss the boat” if they don’t get
aboard the aquatic band wagon. Row-
ing and canoeing, as sports, are hold-
ing their own. Sailing, outboarding
and water skiing are growing by leaps
and bounds. Hundreds of other water
centered activities are popular.

The Red Cross, which limited its
certificate courses for years to swim-
ming and life saving, is now offering
certificated courses in sailing, boating
and canoeing.

Permit me to hand you a vicarious
corsage of orchids for the many splen-
did interest-arousing articles on water

sports.
NATHAN L. MALLINSON, Superin-

tendent of Recreation, Jacksonville,

Florida.

9‘‘1 Am a Child ’9
Sirs:

In looking over some past issues of
RECREATION, I came across—in the
April 1951 issue—“I Am a Child,” a
poem by Percy Hayward. 1 like the
child-like tone and the simple beauty
of this poem and would like to repro-
duce it, with a picture of our own,
for use in one of our college courses,’
“The Teaching of Physical Education
in the Elementary School.” Can you

-advise me how 1 may obtain permis-

sion to use this poem with a picture for

distribution to our students?
SUZANNE E. SCHROEDER, DirectOr,
Dept. of Physical Education for
Women, Beloit College, Wisconsin.

319

 

r TIIE 1953 MEETING of the National
Recreation Congress will be held in
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, September
28 to October 2, with headquarters at
the Bellcvuc-Stratford Hotel.

r TIIE FIRST RECREATION GUIDE,
armed forces edition, of the new
“American Recreation Guide Series,”
being issued by the National Recrea-
tion Association, is just out under the
title, The Pacific Northwest, and was
on display at the Congress in Seattle.
Work is proceeding on the other seven
titles of the series.

r REPORTS ANII PICTURES from the
34th National Recreation Congress will
be puhlished in the December 1952
issue of RECREATION. Included in this
material will be the report, of the na-
tional committee which was appointed
to study the suhjcet of the advisability
of highly organized, competitive sports
for juniors, as amended and approved
at the Congress. Reprints of this will
later be made available.

P Two ADDRESSES to be delivered by
Joseph Prcndcrgast in November are,
“Recreation on the March,” at the
Georgia Recreation Association Con-
ference, St. Simons Island, November
5 to 7, and “The Future of Recreation

in the South,” at the South Carolina
Recreation Conference, Myrtle Beach,

South Carolina, November 10 to 12 .

r TIIERE WILL BE A MEETING again
this year of the church recreation
workshOp (See October RECREATION,
page 282) under the title “WorkshOp
on Recreation for Leaders in Religious
Organizations.” This will be held at
Spring Mill State Park, November 4 to
13. John Collier, member of the NRA
field staff, will represent the associa-
tion at the meeting.

r Two NEw MEMRERS have been ap-
pointed to the National Committee on
Surfacing Recreation Areas, hy the
American Association for Health,

320

Physical Education and Rcereation.
They are Cecil li. Zaun, Supervisor of
Safety, Los Angelcs and H. Cecil
Moon, Director of Physical Education,
Public Schools, Atlanta, Georgia.

> ENCLUSION OE NEGROEs from muni-
cipal swimming pools has been held a
violation of the Fourteenth Amend-
ment in Kansas City, where city board
of park commissions, an arm of the
state and acting under color of state
law, refused to admit plaintiffs, Ne-
groes, to municipal swimming pool
solely because of their color, and swim-
ming facilities provided by city for
use of Negroes were not shown to be
substantially equal to those maintained
and provided for white persons. It was
held that there was deprivation of
plaintiff’s rights.

r AWARDS PRESENTED by the Ameri-
can Recreation Society at its annual
meeting during the 34th National Rec-
reation Congress, were spccial cita-
tions to George Rutlcr, research spe-
cialist of the NRA, and James E. Rog-
crs, retired NRA staff member, for
“distinguished service to your fellow
man in the field of recreation,” and
fellowships to G. B. Fitzgerald, retir-
ing society president, and Ted Banks,
president of the Athletic Institute.

r RECREATION WAS THE TORIC of dis-
cussion at a number of the sessions of
the recent Annual Conference of Amer-
ican lnstitntc of Park Executives. held
in Montreal. The 1953 conference will
be held in Denver, Colorado, and the
I954 conference in Baltimore. Mary-
land.

r l-lvER GROWING lNTl-ZREST IN RECRE-
ATION OUT-OF-DOORS and in the types
of recreation experience offered by
state parks. is clearly evidenced in the
report of the 32nd National Confer-
cncc on State Parks, held at Cnstis
State Park, South Dakota, in Septem-
ber. Mention is made of the expendi-
lure of large sums by communities. in«

dividuals and groups across the coun-
try for the purchasilw, development
and improvement of park areas. Park
attendance figures are soaring. Some
Of the state parks reported that they
are receiving too much publicity for
the facilities available.

> TIIE GATHERING or RECREATION Ex-
ECUTIVES and experts, at the National
Recreation Congress in Seattle, afford-
ed an opportunity for the Puget Sound
Study group to benefit from confer-
ences with leaders brought in from
other cities, from the special consulta-
tion services of the NRA (George But-
ler of the association staff arrived two
days early for this purpose) and from
a congress discussion of prOposals for
the acquisition of park and recreation
properties in the Puget Sound region.
Related to this is a proposal for a two
and one-half million dollar bond issue
for parks in King County, and a one
million dollar park bond issue in Se-
attle, to he submitted to voters in the
November elections.

P A STRAY PIPE was found at the Sc-
attle Congress. Anyone desiring to
claim it should write to Bob Gamble,
National Recreation Association, 315

Fourth Avenue, New York 10, N .Y.

r A TWO-DAY MEETING of the National
Committce for the Aged, now number-
ing about one hundred ninety mem-
bers, will be held November 15 and
16, in New York City, just following
the annual meeting of the National So-
eial Welfare Assembly. Membership of
the committee has been drawn from the
fields of cducation, recreation, health.
religion, social work and from both
major labor organizations.

Special Services

New quotas for overseas recrea-
tion personnel recently have been
announced. The most urgent need is
for women for special service club
work in the Japanese area.

Civilian women also are needed
for elnb work in other overseas
areas. Women, ages twenty-four or
twenty-five, are in demand, too, for
club positions at posts and bases in
all parts of the United States. lnfor-
Ination concerning all special serv-
ice opportunities may he Obtained
from the Recreation Personnel Serv-
ice, National Recreation Associa-

tion, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York
10, New York.

 

RECREATION

The Spirit
of
Thanksgiving

 
 
 
 

NOVEMBER 1952

 
 

OH 0111‘ K1] CCS

Thanks for these brooding hills, the forest

hush;
Houses with [amps alight; a muted song,
And children murmurous at close of day.
Now as we lift our hearts in grateful prayer,
Kneeling, say thanks for shelter and for food,
Safety, and warmth against the winter’s cold,
Give us, 0 Lord, compassion for the old;
Inspire in us the courage to be good;
Vanquish our terror, and let brotherhood

Invade those hearts locked hard in hands of
hate.

Now in November grant to all the living

Grace to feel the comfort of Thanksgiving.
HDorothy Ashby Powna"

Reprinted through courtesy of Dorothy Ashby Pownall and
the Ladies Home Journal.

 

   

 

321

 

'h

Bathhouse of modern design commands excellent view of the first municipal swimming pool in Columbia, South Carolina. Located
in a park near the center of the city, it is lighted for night use. Formal dedleatlon servnee marked opening of the pool in 19-19.

 

View of one 0! the new pools in (.reen Ila)”. \Viseonsin. shows

the diving hag at the left. A fcme separates wading
vitamins: pool whieh hm underwater and overhea

$22

ool from
lighting.

r 1m: RECENT ANNOUNCEMENT hy the National Production

Authority that the ban on the construction: of swim-
ming pools will he lifted early in 1953 is reawakcning
interest in many communities in the development of plans
for swimming pools. The pages that follow describe briefly
several different types of pools that have been constructed
in recent years in widely separated cities of varying popu-
lations. This article and the accompanying photographs
afford information that may he helpful to localities in de-
ciding what type of pool will best suit their needs.

Columbia, South Carolina

The City of Columbia eelehrated the opening of its
$200,000 municipal pool in May 191‘) with a formal dedi-
cation service followed by an elahoratc and colorful pag-
eant and aquatic show. Columbia's first municipal pool is
located in a park near the center of the city. Vcarby is a
pil'nir area, with shelters, tables and duteh owns, and
parking spaces for automobiles.

RECREATION

Construction

 

Swimming unit, \Villamalene pool, with L in
the foreground. Diving unit is off to the left.
The third unit is the children’s wading pool.

of SW PM

The pool is 165 feet long and 65 feet wide, with a depth
of 3 feet 3 inches at the shallow end, graduating to 12 feet
under the two one-meter and two three-meter diving boards.
The pool has underwater lighting, which is a great addition
to lighting effects and for night swimming. The diatomite
filters enable the water in the pool to be refiltered every
six hours.

The bath house is a modernistie structure located on the
third terrace. Colorful beach umbrellas, tables and chairs
are found on the second terrace to the left and right of the
bath house. A sandbox and spray pool are located on the
first terrace for the use Of the smaller children.

An average of nine hundred swimmers use the pool
daily. The pool is Open Monday through Saturday from
10 a.m. to 10 p.m., and on Sundays from 2 p.m. to 10 p.m.
Swimming classes are offered both for adults and for chil-
dren. Each lasts one and onc half hours and meets three
times a week for two wecks. “Swim for Health Week” was
celebrated by providing Opportunity for three hundred un-

derprivileged children to enjoy the new pool.

Dallas, Texas
Since World War II the Dallas Park Board has supple-

mented its three major pools, one beach and thirty-onc
junior pools, through the construction of four pools in
parks located in residential sections of the city. These
“neighborhood type” pools as they are called because of
their location and method of operation are 35 feet wide
011 the deep end, 65 fcet wide on the shallow end and 105
feet long, ranging in depth from 3 feet to 10 feet. Specifi-
cations for this shape pool require eighty percent shallow
water, thereby maintaining maximum water usage with a
minimum amount Of water. The location for such a pool is
determined by selecting a park which is located within or
nearby a well pOpulated residential area, and which has

NOVEMBER 1952

adequate space outside the immediate pool area for park—
ing, bicycle racks, spectator seats and other neighborhood
recreation facilities. Approval Of the pOOl location by resi-
dents and property owners in the vicinity of the pool is
secured before proceeding with the pool plans.

These neighborhood type pools are constructed Without
dressing room facilities or-suit and towel rental privi-
leges, so the swimmer comes tO the pool prepared to swim.
Hangers are installed inside the pool area for the con-'
venience of those bringing robes and towels. The only
building provided is a small attractive structure housing
the main entrance, rest rooms, cashier cage, pump room
and machinery. The cashier’s cage is sO located that a
cashier and lifeguards are the maximum personnel needed
to Operate the pool. The cashier may view the entire pool,
as there are no Obstructions tO any point within the pool
area or on the outside leading to the pool entrance ;' there-
fore the cashier may serve as the manager or assistant
manager Of the pool, thereby supervising the pool activi-
ties, personnel and Operations.

The pool has a recirculating system with a six-hour
water purification turnover and is equipped with pressure
filters. One three-meter diving board and one one-meter
diving board are located at the deep end of the pool. Three
lifeguard stands are properly placed around the pool. This
pool is also equipped with vacuum cleaners, underwater
lights, entrance showers, footsplash, ample drainage in

surrounding walkways, and is enclosed by a seven-foot

protective chain link fence. The swimming season in Dal-
las is from the middle of May through Labor Day. Daily
hours Of Operation for the pools are from 8 a.m. to 10:15
p.m. Total attendance in a recent season varied from

46,124 to 62,764 per pool. The pools are built to handle a

maximum of eight hundred swimmers daily.
The swimming program includes free swimming lessons

323

 

in cooperation with the American Red Cross, playground
swimming meets and other water activities. Because of the
location and convenience, families are encouraged to go
swimming in a group and to attend the pool regularly,
thereby stimulating interest in swimming and aquatics.

Green Bay, \Viseonsin

Two outdoor swimming pools, identical in size and type
of construction, were opened in Green Bay in 1950. Each
pool has a swimming area 65 feet by 200 feet, plus a diving
well 30 feet by 50 feet which is part of the pool and is
located along one side, near the deep end. l‘laeh also has a
wading pool for small children, separated by a fence from
the swimming pool, but connected with the recirculation
system. Underwater lighting as well as overhead lighting
facilities have been installed. The water in the main por-
tion of the pool varies from 2%; feet to 5 feet in depth. 1t is
2% feet at one end and 3%; feet at the other, with the deep
water in the middle section of the pool. For swimming
meets a removable bulkhead is used at the shallow end of
the pool in order that there may be a minimum of 31/2
feet of water for 50-meter races. Water in the diving pool
varies in depth from 5 feet at each end to 11 feet in front
of the high board. The pool is equipped with pressure
filtch and a recirculation system, and has a capacity of
465,000 gallons. The bathhouse, containing lobby and
dressing areas, is a concrete and wood structure 42 feet
by 144 feet. The filtration plant is in the basement.

Haeh pool cost $192,612 plus an architect's fee of six
per cent, or a total slightly above $200,000. The cost of
operating the two pools in 1951 totaled $25,000 or an
average of $12,500 per pool for the season. lieeeipts in-
cluding season tickets, single admissions and concession
income totaled $14,714, or $7,357 per pool. The average
number of swims per pool in 1951 was 73,475. Swimming
classes are held each morning, Monday through Saturday.

Single admissions vary from ten cents for children un-
der twelve to twenty-five cents for adults; season tickets

32-1»

Air view of one of Levittown's swim-
ming and \vadin pools. The com-
munity is served y nine such pools.

from two dollars for children under twelve to four dollars
for adults.

Levittown, New York

This Long Island community of 17,447 homes,'eom-
pletely built since V-J day, has the distinction of having
the most adequate provision of swimming facilities of any
city of its size in the country. It has nine swimming pools,
or better than one for every 2,000 families, representing
an investment of $1,500,000. The pools are identical; 125
feet long, 75 feet wide and a depth ranging from 31/; feet
to 12 feet. Each has a capacity of 450,000 gallons. At the
shallow end of the pool and separated from it by a wide
runway is a wading pool for children. measuring 75 feet
by 25 feet.

Pressure sand filters are used and the water is re-
circulated every eight hours. Diving facilities include one
high board and two low boards. There are no lights as the
pools were not intended for night time operation. Each
pool has toilet facilities, drinking fountains, and open
euhieles for the storage of sandals, shoes and towels, but
no locker room facilities.

The pools operate from 8 a.in. until dark, from Me-
morial Day (May 30) till mid-September. Throughout
the season they are used by an average of 10,000 pcOple
a week. Each pool has at least one lifeguard on duty at
all times it is in use.

Salinas, California

The municipal swimming pool, opened for public use
in July, 19-19, was one of the first pools to be constructed
that combined indoor-outdoor features. The pool measures
50 feet by 100 feet and is fully enclosed. The exterior is
constructed of natural redwood above the poured concrete
walls of the dressing rooms. Extensive use of plate glass
was made on the south side of the building. 1ndustrial roll-
up doors separate the swimming pool deck from a fenced
30 feet by 100 feet concrete sun deck which is outside the

RECREATION

 
  
  
  

Finishing a neighborhood pool in Dallas,
Texas. Four similar ones have been con-
structed 1n residential sections soince war.

Roll-up doors, adjoining sun deck make
Salina’s municipal pool an indoor-outdoor
swimming center. It was opened in 1949.

building. The entire wall above these doors, as well as a
twenty-foot section at each end of the pool, is made up of
plate glass panels.

This type of pool has proved to be very satisfactory in
this city, which has a coastal fog almost daily during the
summer months. Excessive condensation within the build-
ing during the winter months necessitated the installation
of a dehumidification system.

Springfield, Oregon

The Willamalene Park and Recreation District in 1951
built a triple-unit pool at a cost of $180,000. The largest
unit is 60 feet by 120 feet, with an L 15 feet wide at
the deep end. A line of buoys extends across the unit at
the L, affording an area 60 feet by 80 feet, from 21/2 feet
to 5 feet in depth for beginners, and an area 40 feet by
75 feet, from 5% feet to 61/2 feet in depth for advanced
swimmers and for meets. The second unit is a separate
diving pool 40 feet square and 10 feet in depth, with a
one-meter and a three-meter board. The third unit, sep-
arated by a fence from the others, is a wading pool 35
feet by 60 feet, with water 1 foot in depth.

The entire pool is surrounded by a concrete deck 25
feet to 35 feet wide, which is enclosed by a woven wire
fence. The pool is equipped with chlorinator and diatroma-
ccous earth filters. The building, housing showers, lockers
and water heating and purification equipment is of con-
crete, trimmed with brick and finished with colored tile.

The pool is Open to the public from 1 p.1n. to 10 p.111.
daily during the summer season with an average attcnd-
ance of five hundred to eight hundred people. 011 very hot
days it will accommodate fifteen hundred swimmers. A
Learn To Swim program is held for ten weeks for Spring-
field and all the surrounding communities during the sum-
mer in the mornings. Last year fifteen hundred children
received instruction and this year fourteen hundred took
advantage of this free instruction.

NOVEMBER 1952

   

   

The Operation of the pool costs approximately one
hundred dollars per day. This includes utilities, filter ma-
terial, the wages of four life guards, one pool manager and
three basket room employees.

The income from admissions more than pays for this
expense. Charges made are ten cents for children, twenty-
five cents for high school students, and fifty cents for
adults. A season ticket for children costs three dollars,
for high school students, five dollars and for adults, seven
dollars and fifty cents. A family ticket, which admits an

entire family, costs fifteen dollars. The wading pool is, of
course, free.

Friendship Angels

Lovely, golden foil angels, handmade
by refugees in the Bavarian Alps, are
on sale from the international organiza«
tion, Friendship Among Children and
Youth—proceeds to be used for the
benefit of children throughout the
world. The gold or silver friendship
angels, fourteen and a half inches high,
retail for $2.50 (ineluding postage).
Fifteen in one box are priced at $25.50
———or $1.65 each. It is suggested that
clubs, churehes and other organizations
may wish to resell these for their own
benefit. Order from: Friendship Among

Children and Youth, 220 Fifth Avenue.
New York 1, NY.

 

325

REALITY -- Through the Dance

P

The room is a pleasant one, cheerfully decorated, with
attractive couches and colorful drapes at the windows. A
number of gaily-clad girls are dancing with their partners,
as a ealler’s crisp commands ring out:

Take that lady by the wrist,

Around that lad y with a grapevine twist.
Back to the center with a whoa-haw-gee,
And around the gent from Tennessee!

Entering, you might comment, “This could be a square
dance anywhere in America, perhaps in a college gymnasi-
um, a church basement or a Grange hall!”

But then you begin to see thc grills on the windows,
and the aides who stand, alertly watching the dancers;
and you notice the men who are not dancing. They sit
silently along the sidelines. One of them stares at the
floor. Another suddenly rises and begins to arguc loudly.
Then you realize that this is not an ordinary squarc dance.

It is a dance being held in a veteran’s psychiatric hospi-
tal, in the day room of a ward of hyperactive patients.
Many of these men are extremely disturbed, some with a
tendcney toward impulsive violenee. And yet square
dancing is a regular part of their planned activity program.

This traditional form of social recreation is being used
more and more today in America's mental hospitals. Rec-
reation workers are coming to appreciate its unique values,
and psychiatric stalls are interested in its possibilities.

To learn just how square dancing can be successfully
earried on with mentally ill veterans, let us
visit a hospital that has sponsorcd this type
of aetivity for the past two yearshthe
Franklin Delano Roosevelt Memorial Hos-
pital at Montrose, New York. This huge.
recently-built institution sprawls over an
attractive, green landseapc close to thc
lludson lliver. it has over fifteen hundred
paticnts mostly from World War ll; eighty-
eight of them are women.

Author RICHARD KRAUS is assistant pro/es-
sor in education at Teachers College, Co-
lumbia University, New York City. The
illustrations for this article are his own.

326

Richard Krans

Martin M. Meyer, chief of recreation, special services,
at the Montrose hospital, is eager to talk about his pro-
gram’s use of square dancing. “But first,” he says, “let me
explain the kinds of patients we work with, since their
needs determine the nature of the activity.”

“There are four chief categories,” Meyer says. “The
first is composed largely of \Vorld War II veterans who
have, in most cases, suffered fairly recent breakdowns.
Intensive treatment is given to help them achieve a quick
recovery. Various physiological treatments are employed,
together with very concentrated psychotherapy.

“A second type consists of hyperactive, extremely dis-
turbed paticnts. A third category includes patients whose
illness is of longer duration. Some have been under treat-
ment for fifteen or twenty years.

“A fourth type of patient is very regressed, often phys-
ically incapacitated. It would be useless to attempt this
kind of activity with him. But we do work with eaeh of
the other kinds.”

Two kinds of square dance activities are held each
week. One is a small ward party, held each Thursday
night. The other is a mass square dance, held on Monday.

Thursday Evening \Vard Parties

Square dance parties are held for hyperactive patients
in the day room of a ward. Eight men participate at a
single time. During a typical evening, about sixty per cent

 

Recs euros

of award of forty men will usually take part. Obviously,
women partners are needed, to dance with the men. How
has this hospital solved the problem?

“We owe a considerable debt to the Montrose Commit-
tee of the American Theater Wing,” the recreation director
is quick to explain. “Under the leadership of Mrs. Doris
Marcuse, hostesses have been brought in from the start.
Usually they are in the cntertainment field; they volunteer
their services, as do all those connected with the activity.
On alternate Thursday nights, the Carroll Club of New
York, a service organization, has brought in hostesses,
led by Pat McClarney and Carmen Orestano.”

The party follows a formula deve10ped over eight years
by the American Theater Wing, combining entertainment,
dancing, community singing and conversational mixing,
usually in the following sequence:

1. A pianist plays popular music for a short time.

2. A master of ceremonies then introduces an entertain-
er, usually a girl, who sings for the 'patients.

3. Hostesses (usually about ten) enter, one at a time,
with cigarettes and candy, which they offer the men.

4. The hostesses then ask the patients to square dance.
It is very rarely that a patient has the initiative to invite a
hostess to dance; when he does so, it is considered a very
good sign. Two or three square dances are done.

5. There may be a short stretch of social dancing and
community singing. The program is ended quickly, with-
out any lingering good-byes.

The caller who pioneered in square dancing at the
Montrose Hospital is Henry Scherer, a squarc and folk
dance teacher from New York City. Both he and his wife
have volunteered their services regularly, and their pa-
tience, friendliness and careful selection and teaching of
dances has helped to bring about remarkable progress
undcr most difficult circumstances. For instance, the forty
men in a “hyperactive” ward represent various types, each
one offering a special problem to the caller. Some are
catatonic, completely mute and motionless, yet capable of
breaking out in sudden hyperactivity. Others hallucinate
constantly, having visions, gesturing and shouting. Still
others behave wildly and boisterously, in order to attract
the attention of the hostesses.

In one of the most difficult wards, square dancing was
begun by Henry Scherer. During the first session, there
was no response at all. Only after several weekly sessions
would six or eight of the patients stand and permit their
hands to be taken by the hostesses. Their expressions
were blank and they did not speak at all—but their rising
showed that they wanted to take part in the activity. Even
with patients of this type, the caller was able. to bring
men to the point where they would accept instruction and
do fairly involved dances. In addition, Scherer and his
wife often demonstrated EurOpean folk dances, which the
paticnts seemed to enjoy watching—and which may have
motivated them toward dancing themselves.

Monday Evening Mass Dances

On Mondays, the dance is held in the large recreation
hall of the hospital. Approximately seventy to eighty guest

NOVEMBER 1952-

 

hostesses attend, coming from all over Westchester and
Putnam counties, and about one hundred and fifty men
and women hospital patients. Often there are as many as
twenty sets on the floor. The patients come from the first
and third categories: those with recent breakdowns who
are undergoing very intensive treatment, and those who
have been under continued treatment for a long time.
Each ward is classified and given a quota, to determine
which patients will attend. Doctors select those who will
take part on the basis of their social needs and their
amount of interest in the activity. The crowd is usually
most enthusiastic and anxious to dance.

Starting as a small day room party, this weekly dance
has grown steadily, with more and more hostesses attend-
ing, in Spite of the isolated location of the hospital and
poor train and bus connections. The hostesses are supplied
by the American Red Cross, the American Legion Auxili-
ary and B’nai Brith, the Jewish service organization. They
are carefully screened for stability, common sense and
adaptability, and given a Special orientation course by the
hospital’s psychiatrists, psychologists and recreation spe-
cialists. In this course, the following subjects are dealt
with: types of patients, how the hostesses should behave,
and problems for which to watch.

In regard to the last point, recreation chief Meyer
stresses that there has been no unpleasant episode of any
importance at Montrose Hospital, in the two years that
square dancing has been carried on. '

Unlike the ward parties, only square dancing is on the
Monday night program. While some patients distrust it at
the outset, feeling that it is too “hick” or “lowbrow” for
them, and while some women patients resentit because it
does not give them a chance to primp, it has become ex-
ceedingly popular among most of the patients. In the
opinion of the recreation director, it has these distinct

327

values when compared with social dancing:

I. It represents a re~socializing influence for patients
whr mav have become almost completely withdrawn from
realitv and from contact with others. It is a community
enterprise.

2. It means that the patient must take instruction; must
listen in the caller’s directions and put them into action.
In social dancing, if the patient ever knew how to dance,
he {an carry it on by habit, just through the physical
memory. But in square dancing, he must be conscious,
and must force his attention on a real situation. All
patients cannot do this—~but when they do, it is consid-
ered a real step forward. One of the hospital psychologists
has been amazed to see patients following instructions in
square dancing when they were completely unable to do so
while taking psychological tests.

A wide number of callers have taken part in the dance
activities at the hospital. These have included Robert Pal-
mer, a postman and amateur caller from Peeks-kill, “Tex”
Coultcr from nearby Connecticut, and Jimmy Yoe, a pro-
fessional caller who also works as an occupational therapist
at the hospital. Others have been the popular Elisha Keeler
of South Salem, a woman caller, Penny Braught, and a
beginning caller, Joe Beasley, whose careful, slow ap-
proach and thorough teaching have achieved an excellent
response. In the opinion of the hospital’s recreation staff,
it is much more important for a caller to be sympathetic,
easy-going and patient, than it is for hint to have an ex-
cellent calling style, or outstanding repertoire. From sevo

I?)
Air "'
r

"The Choice of those who play the Game”

W¢ngyoz

Sports Equnpment

HHCINNAII (“If AG” " "IN 7033' 5.05 ANGIIH

 

cral of the callers, the following suggestions have been
gleaned.

Do’s and Don’t's for Callers
Let the patients know at once that you are their friend.

Choose material that is simple and easily-learned. It
should he lively, but not too strenuous or wild.

Praise men who perform eorrectly even the simplest
movements, but never reprimand them for mistakes.

Never do danccs involving kissing. hugging, or actions
like massing hair, tweaking nose. and so on. Keep your
dances dignified.

Never assume that the patients remember what you
taught them during the last session. Review old figures.
and teach all new patterns extremely carefully.

Begin with circlc mixers, since withdrawn patients are
encouraged to come into this type of formation, rather
than with smaller squares. lt is less of a challenge to them.

Avoid sarcasm or kidding when talking to the patients;
many of them may misunderstand it and take offense.

Let the patients end with a feeling of accomplishment.
by doing a very familiar, easy dance—and end quickly!
When the dance is over, the hall should be cleared at once.
for this is the time when behavior problems are most like-
ly to occur.

A major problem in connection with square dancing in
mental hospitals is that of obtaining volunteer hostesses
for the men’s dancing partners. For instance, the Veter-
ans Administration Hospital at Northport, Long Island,
has had a successful and p0pular monthly square dance
program for patients for the past three years, under the
direction of E. S. Sheridan, chief of recreation, special
services; but, as at Montrose, they are dependent on a
sponsoring organization in the community to provide
music, callers. aml. most of all. vohmteer hostesses!

In the Lyons. New Jersey, veterans” hospital. recreation
director l’hilip Cummings states, “While we here at Lyons
are highly in favor of this activity for mental patients, we
have not yet been able to give it the time necessary to carry
it out with any moderate degree of success. With over two
thousand patients to serve on a seven day week basis, our
present hospital policy is aimed at activities for large num-
bers of patients.”

Obviously, large numbers of patients can only be suc-
cessfully involved in square dance activities if. as at
Montrose and Northport, large numbers of hostesses are
brought in by outside community organizations.

llere lies a challenge for the many square dance clubs.
associations and federations in America today! If they
would organize to provide callers and hostesses for square
dance sessions in nearby mental hospitals, they would be
performing a wonderful service. They would be bringing
an activity that they enjoy greatly themselves to patients
who have a real need for it. While this type of project may
not be as glamorous or showy as sponsoring huge festivals
and jamborees. and while it may involve considerable
groundwork and frustration over a period of time, ulti-
mately it will yield rich fruits of satisfaction. The volun-
tccr dancers and callers who have made the Moutrose and
Northport programs successful will attest to this!

Ittzcmrntov

 

Kathryn and Dorothy Hardin try the concrete turtle
at the Salvation Army Day Nursery in Los Angeles.

3 OMETHINC NEW in the way of playground equipment
is now being used by the children at the Salvation
Army Day Nursery in Los Angeles. It is a turtle sculptured
in cement. Three and one-half feet from each outstretched
leg to the top of its arched shell and four feet from its
beaked nose to the tip of its tail, the turtle weighs approxi-
mately five hundred pounds. It is an imaginative effort to
enliven the types of children’s recreational facilities with
an oversize animal figure. Patterned after the animals
viewed by most children only behind the iron fence at a
zoo, such a plaything lends variety to the usual equipment
of swings, see-saws and jungle gyms. i .

Clara Lee, senior sculpture student at the University of
Southern California, designed and constructed the turtle.
Working in conjunction-with the university School of Ar-
chitecture, which designed the playground, she has con-
structed a piece of equipment whose primary function is
“playability.” The total cost of the turtle was only eight
dollars—the cost of materials. Miss Lec donated her efforts
and her time, which she estimates to have been approxi-
mately two hundred hours.

Construction of such an animal appears to be more in
the field of engineering than in that of sculpturing. First,
however, a scale model in terra cotta clay was made. Then
the actual turtle was begun by erecting two steel rods,
arched, crossed at the center, and attached diagonally to
the corners of a square wooden frame. Another rod was
wired to the other two and projected to the front to form
the neck and head of the animal. Around and halfway the

 

During her senior year at Wesleyan College, Macon, Geor-
gia, CHARLOTTE BATTLE was president of the Athletic Asso-
ciation and a participant in many sports activities. She is
now doing graduate work in writing, New York University.

NOVEMBER 1952

 

Charlotte Battle

A TURTLE
M 26656
366656
M Swede

height of these rods was then placed a circular rod as a
base for the turtle’s shell. A steel netting laid over the
framework provided the base for a ute and cement founda-
tion which was modeled to the general shape of the turtle.
Details were added in other layers of cement.

Green cement coloring was mixed in the last cement
layer. Also, a reddish-brown coloring was used on lined
indentures of the turtle’s shell and in its open mouth to
lend contrast to the color scheme. Finally, rubbing with
carborundum sand paper smoothed out the rough edges
and gave a finished appearance to the animal.

The turtle was designed specifically for a pre-school age
group of children at the day nursery. 0f the mammalian,
reptilian and bird forms considered, that of the turtle was
chosen as best fitting the needs of the children.

Dimensions of the animal are drawn to suit the sizes of

the children expected to play
011 it. To enable them to
crawl under it, the turtle
shell is hollow on the under-
side and raised two feet off
the ground by the length of
the four legs. Three holes in
the shell, one on each side
and one at the rear, allow
the children to project their heads from the underside of
the shell to the exterior. Had playground space not been
limited, the turtle design would have been large enough
to permit the children to crawl through these holes.

A smooth sliding area is provided by the rounding
shell of the turtle’s back and supplemented by each of the
four legs which extend from under the shell but even with
its surface. For riding the animal there is a seat on top of
the shell and also convenient footliolds made by the two

329

side holes of the shell. For smaller ehildren the turtles
neck is low enough to provide a straddling seat. So this
turtle is a versatile one; it can be elinlbcd, slid down.
crawlcd under, and ridden. Such possibilities were con-
sciously considered in choosing the turtle form as a piece
of playground equipment.

However, its zoological accuracy was not ignored in the
effort to make the turtle enticing to a group of youngsters.
Miss Lee did research in both the zoology department and
the Hancock Foundation for Scientifie Research of the
university before completing its design. Actually it is a
eombination of species, rather than a Calapagus or Sphar-
gis. Nevertheless, behind its design lies a basis of scientific
knowledge and research.

From the playground director’s point of view an im-
portant advantage of the turtle's design is safety. Every
part of the animal is securely attached to the whole.

A Coasting Chute

H. S. Kennedy

No DOUBT omens have found a

multiple use for their picnic
tables and wooden blcaehcrs. We, on
our part, have found our park play-
ground handcraft tables and ten-tier
bleachers useful for a snow coasting
setup. If put together on a fairly good
slope, the “bank” makes a good off-
strcct coasting area. A number of them
put together make a platform for our
Fourth of July Circus; others have
been used by putting a series of them
together on end, side by side, to make
the liackdrOp for a bandshell. Each
table is 71/: feet long, 21/; feet wide,

 

Nothing is movable. No flying trapeze bars, no unbalanced
swing seats, no sliding bar rings jeopardize the child‘s
safety. The danger from falling is minimized by the turtles
circular construction, and additional protection is afforded
by a sawdust base under the whole form.

The popularity of amusements such as the merry-go-
round proves children's attraction to realistic and imagina-
tive animal models. Even an animal such as the turtle,
which is often considered ugly in appearance and is rarely
domesticated as a pet, can be modeled into an inviting
recreational facility. This type of equipment is a stimulant
to the imagination as well as an aid to healthy body
building. To the child the cement turtle may easily become
a gallant steed, a lumbering elephant, a plodding camel.
lts novelty may wear off soon, but its fitness to function

makes it a perennial favorite with those who know—the
children.

 

Tables are stacked behind the bleachers.

teen feet for the chute, which is made
by laying bleacher-scat or footboards
lengthwise, with side boards to keep
the children from going off the chute.
Lattice strips 1"xl 1/," are nailed across
the chute to keep the snow from slid-
ing downward.

5. The 2x4’s used for side railings.
to keep the children from falling off,
are the ones used in the fall for soeecr
and football goal posts. These are. not
cut, but used as they are for goal

and stands 21/2 feet high. The ma-
terial for legs is 4x4 and the top is
2x8 planking. The tables are very
well constructed. to stand up under
heavy weight and hard use.

In the assembling of a snow coast-
ing chute:

l. A ten-tier section of bleachers is
set up.

 

Author ll. S. KESXEDY is the director
of recreation in Summit, .- 'ew Jersey.

330

A spaee is left on one side for the steps.

2. Six tables are staeked in back
of the bleachers, two tables wide, three
tables high. This forms the starting
platform for the coasters.

3. The bleachers are approximately
sixteen feet wide, and we leave a space
three feet wide on one end to form
the steps for the use of coasters in
reaching the starting platform.

4. This leaves approximately thir-

posts, which means they ean be used
year after year for their regular pur-
poses.

We have found, after four years' ex-
perienee, this eoasting facility provides
a great deal of enjoyment for the
smaller children. It is safe, too. and we
have not had an accident to date. Al»
though it does not provide a fast
enough ride for older ehildren and
adults. we have found it a most satis-
factory faeility for off-street coasting.

RECREATION

. Recreation in Children’s Hospital,
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, has as many
angles as the hospital has patients, be-
cause each child’s play needs and in-
tcrests help to chart our course in pre-
paring and conducting the recreation
program. Needless to say, the primary
purpose of our hospital is to treat the
illnesses and handicaps of the patients;
while through our recreation program
we aim to supply the factors which
keep the children occupied and con-
tented and, when necessary, ease their
anxious moments. We try to follow
just as closely as possible the play in-
terests of the “well” child.

A wide variety of illnesses and han-
dicaps are treated in our hospital, such
as those falling in the classifications
of orthopedic, metabolic, medical and
surgical. Space can be provided for
201 patients in wards of different sizes,
semi-private and private rooms. The
activity provided for them is deter-
mined by the nature of the illness or
handicap, and it ranges from passive
amusement to that of a very active
type, such as a lively game of table
tennis or a daily outing for the meta-
bolic patients.

The patient’s day contains both work
and play elements. Those who are able
to be taken to the attractive school-
room spend two hours every morning,
Monday through Friday, keeping up
with their school work. The children
who are unable to be out of bed, but
who are able to participate in their
school activities, are brought to the
schoolroom in their beds. Ambulatory
patients and those able to get about in
wheelchairs or carts are regular at-
tendants, and those unable to be pres-
ent are given bedside instruction. The
school is under the direction of a very
capable teacher supplied by the Pitts-
burgh Board of Education. She in-
cludes in her program a wide variety
of interesting crafts.

Our play program is in progress
during the children’s waking hours.
We have several playrooms on the two
large ward floors; this arrangement al-
lows thc patients to play together in
surroundings different from those in
their wards or small rooms.

In addition to recreation service for

MRS. EWING is recreation director of
the Children’s Hospital at Pittsburgh.

NOVEMBER 1952

 

our house patients, a supervised play
program is carried on in the dispen-
sary where there are more than forty
thousand patient visits yearly. These
visits are made to twenty different
clinics which are held at assigned
periods every week; and it has proven
very satisfactory to have someone on
hand to keep waiting patients con-
tented.

All of our activities must lirst be
sanctioned by the doctors in charge. It
is necessary to check frequently with
the head nurse to keep informed of
changes which may have been pre-
scribed. Quite often, requests for spe-
cial attention to certain patients come
from the staff and resident physicians.

We have available a wide variety of
play materials—toys, games, books,
constructive materials—to help us fill
the patients’ requests and around
which we build our play programs.
Several types of equipment are indis-
pensable. We have small radios, which
we loan without charge for any period
of time the child desires, for those who
of necessity must be kept alone. Record
players and children’s albums are in
constant use by both individuals and
groups. The ceiling projector, and our
library of micro-films, has been a blcss-

Frances Brallier Ewing

ing many times. A small organ which
can be moved about easily, helps pro-
vide satisfying and appealing musical
programs; and two television sets are
available for patients’ use.

We are fortunate in having the serv-
ices of the Gray Ladies, a unit of the
American Red Cross. The Children’s
Hospital unit consists of over sixty
active Cray Ladies and we are deeply
grateful to them for their generous
and outstanding contribution of their
time and services. They supply, in a
sense, the mother element which is so
important in a children’s hospital. For
the most part their duties are per-
formed in the recreation and educa-
tion departments, although they do give
valuable assistance elsewhere. Among
other things, they deliver the patient’s
mail-—-a very important detail—and for
those who may not have received mail,
they select, from a supply of cards
which we keep on hand, something ap-
pr0priate for the disappointed child.
They help feed those who are unable to
feed themselves, keep the children oc-
cupied with games, crafts or any ac-
tivity requested or with projects which,
are suggested to them, and carry the
full responsibility for conducting spe-
cial programs. They are constantly

331

helping. too. to keep play equipment in
usablc condition and available.

In addition to the Gray' Ladies, the
student nurses from twenty-one affili-
ated hospitals are each assigned, for
one week of their thrcc-month training
period in Children’s llospital. to the
recreation department. Every week.
from eight to ten new l’lay Nurses (as
the children have christened them) put
aside their student uniforms and wear
bluc smocks which identify their du-
ties. The Play Nurses are evaluated on
their service during this assignment
the same as on any of their general
duty services. Their duties parallel
those of the Gray Ladies, although
both groups perform several specific
duties of their own. The Play Nurses
and Gray Ladies are scheduled so that
the recreation services extend to seven
o'clock, the end of the patients’ aetive
day. The Play Nurses are assigned to
conduct our dispensary play program.
Each student, during her recreation
service, is assigned to two nursery
school observation periods at Frick
School—a l’ittsburgh puhlie school.
The basic students, those who are cn-
gaged in the five-year course at the
University of Pittsburgh School of
Nursing, work live morning periods
with the director of the nursery school.
This assignment allows the student to
observe the well child at play at the
same time that she is working with the
hospitalized child.

There are several speeial program
cvcnts wbieh the children cagerly ac-
cept. Twice a week movies are shown
with our own sixteen mm sound pro-
jector f each week during the school
year the Board of Education supplies
us with several interesting films and
we add to these from our film library,
which eonsists of eartoons, cowboy
pictures, sports and other interesting
“shorts” which the children have
selected from time to time). Every
month brings its birthday party, based
upon an appropriate theme for that
month, with games, prizes, favors.
eolor schemes and birthday eake dcc-
orations all in keeping with the theme.
0n the day of the party. every ehild on
the ward floors with a birthday during
that month is considered a guest of
honor and reeeives a gift, whether or
not he is able to attend the party. To

332

any who are unable to actually par-
tieipate. we take as much of the party
as possible. liefresbmcnts consist of
punch or ice cream. and birthday cake:
several kinds of cakes are necessary to
comply with the various diets—regular
cake for those on general diets, un-
ieed angel-food cake for thc diabetics,
and salt-free cake for those on salt-free
diets. The Women’s Advisory Commit-
tee sclccts from its membership birth-
day party sponsors, each of whom eon-
tributcs a given amount to the party
fund to permit the buying of refresh-
ments and anything else needed.

The patients have aceess to a free
circulating library service. The chil-
dren’s library contains one thousand
volumes, and is conducted by a eom-
mittee from one of our local women’s
service clubs as its community service
project. Wednesday evening and Sat-
urday afternoon the children may
select their books and return thosc
wbieh they have finished. Book carts
have been donated so that “the library"
may be easily taken to the patients.

Whenever possible, outings are
planned for those who may go out-
doors. The big events are picnics in
the parks, a trip to the zoo, the circus.
the flower show or whatever else might
present itself. Those who are ambula-
tory, as well as those who must be
wheelcd in carts and chairs, make up
the party. Frequently strolls around
the block are planned for Clement aft-
ernoons.

The Special holidays of the year are
properly observed; and the ebildren
are always very eager to partieipate in
the preparation for all of their various
evcnts—-—whieh does give the occasion
much more meaning. Christmas at
Children’s Hospital is the most im-
pressivc and inspirational expcricnee
one can imagine. The ebildren are
generously remembered; gifts to suit
all ages and faneics arrive to permit
Santa to practically empty his paek
for every child. Groups of carolers and
other entcrtaincrs visit the hospital
during the weeks preceding Christmas
and contribute their talents in many
lovely ways. The entire hospital is alive
with Christmas spirit—there are many
trees and wreaths, and the children
select, from Christmas eards. the
scenes or figures which they wish the

“artists” to reproduce for them. and
the windows are painted aeeording to
their directions. Our Cray
nurses. doctors—in fact, all who can
sketeh or paint—volunteer tbcir serv-
ices. Each child who is discharged dur-
ing the week preceding Christmas. re-

Ladies.

ceivcs a gift. This "party" is sponsored
by the Junior Social Service Commit-
tee. On Christmas l'ive, while the chil-
dren slccp, an appropriately filled
stocking is hung on each bed, and the
contents keep them busy until Santa
makes his rounds.

Easter has its own very special and
colorful routine. The Bunny presents
each child with a gay Easter basket
and a little present. Early in the after-
noon each child receives a potted plant
from the children of the Sunday School
classes of one of our large local
churches.

Valentine’s Day is preecdcd by days
of activity, making or selecting appro-
priate valentines for each other and
for the family and friends at home.
Each floor has an attractive Valentine
box which is opened and the contents
are distributed during the party.

Halloween is always eclcbrated with
a costume party; those “munnncrs”
who are ambulatory parade and show
their costumes to the patients on all of
the floors. We have assembled a siz-
able costumc wardrobe and usually
they like to design and make their own
masks. We find dress-up days vcry
p0pular with our ehildrcn.

One of our loeal gardcn elubs sup-
plics small individual bouquets during
the summer months. Every Thursday
is flewer day: and shortly after the
noon I'cst hour, during which time the
Gray Ladies assemble the bonqnets in
small vases ( previously decorated by
the patients), the flowers are wheeled
from room to room for each child to
select his own bouquct.

The many aetivities which constitute
our reercation program are made pos-
sible chiefly through the generosity of
our community. lts many organiza-
tions and individuals contribute hours
of volunteer services as well as aetual
materials and funds for acquiring the
things required to satisfy our patients’
play needs. Preparing for and eonduct-
ing this recreation program presents a
faseinating challcngc.

ltscamnos

 

l

'JHRISTMAS TIME, particularly, is the
time for candlelight, although dining
by the light of candles at any time of
year strikes a festive, romantic chord
with guests. It is a lot of fun to make
your own candles for this purpose;
and because you can make them any
thickness you desire, they will burn
as long as you wish. There are many
ways to work with wax; and listed
below are a few of the most practical.
Materials: Old wax crayons, candles,

paraffin.

1. Molded Candles—Caution: When

melting wax be careful not to get it
too hot or to leave the room, for
wax will burn; but if your pot of
wax catches fire, put a lid on it imme-
mediately and the fire will go out.
Wax may also. be melted in hot wa-
ter. Some of the molds that: may be
used for candles are: paper tubes,
jello molds, or drinking glasses. Color
the wax with crayon or oil colors.
For the wick, soak a piece of heavy
string in a solution of ten percent
borax, five percent Boraxo and water,
to keep it from smoking; then dip in
hot wax, and twist. Pour just a little
wax in the bottom of the mold, and
put wick in. When hardened, hold
wick straight while you pour in rest
of wax. When set, rcmove from mold.
If stuck, loosen by placing in hot wa-
ter for a few seconds. Molded candle
snowballs and spheres are made by
molding two halves without a wick.
Weld the halves togcther with hot
wax and make a holc for the wick
with a hot icepick or wirc.

2. Frosted Whipped Wa;v—-—Use as out-
side covering for candles to make them
glow. l-Ieat wax until melted and allow

NOVEMBER 1952

Candle Making

to cool until film forms over top.
Whip gently with an egg beater until
it is foamy. With a fork flip the wax
over the candle. Whipped wax may
also be colored with pieces of crayon.
If thin candles of the long taper kind
are made and used for the center, the
whipped wax may be thicker, and thus
give more glow.

3. Taper Candles —- Melt paraflin in
pan of hot water, pour water in one
tall bottle, and wax into another. Pre-
pare a wick as described above, and
dip it from the bottle with wax into
the bottle of cold water, and back
again; repeat, and each dipping will
add to circumference of your candle.

4. Floral decorations around the can.-
dles—Pour colored wax—-red for
roses, green for leaves, orchid and
peach for other flowers—into pans
filled with lukewarm water. Take a
piece of the soft wax film from the
top of the water and cut out petals
with knife. Shape and thin out with
fingers, and drop petals into cold wa-
ter until ready to use. When all your
petals and leaves are made, fuse these
together by dripping wax from an-
other candle as solder, and then affix
to the candle. Shapes of petals cut
from double strength crepe paper, or
other paper, may be dipped in wax for
greater detail. Water lilies made in this
manner are especially pretty. For thin
stems (lip twigs or wire into grecn wax.

5. Drip Candles—Set a candle into
t0p of tall soda bottle, and place bot-
tle in saucer. Light candlc and let it
burn down, and then replace with
another; each candle will successively
add to drippings around the bottle.

6. Candles that melt in dwerent col-
ors—Fill a mold with melted paraffin
wax and add numerous small chips of
colored crayons and stir. When can-

dle is lighted, these small bits im-
bedded in it will color drippings as it
melts. '

7. Jumbo Candle

three pounds of paraffin

one foot of heavy cord for wick
double boiler

egg beater

fork, tablespoon, paring knife
decorative accessories

mica snow

Melt one pound of paraffin in double
boiler. Set pan on table on newspapers.
Dip ends of two quarter-pound slabs
of parafiin into hot wax and press to-
gether to make one long slab. Pour
two tablespoons of hot wax on the
wide side of this and press two more
pieces on top of it; and half of the
candle is formed. Now carve a groove
lengthwise down the center of it and
place in it the piece of heavy cord,
which has been dipped in melted wax
and twisted tight. Cement wick in
groove with melted wax and add four
more slabs in the same way to com-
plete the candle. Set upright and round
off corners with a paring knife if de-
sired.

Whip remainder of wax, cover can-
dle with layer of it, and sprinkle with
mica snow. Add ribbon and decora-
tive accessories.

This candle may be set on a block
of wood covered with wax snow for a
base. To make candle glow, carve
around wick to a depth of one and a
half inches so that flame will be lower
than sides of candle at t0p. This will
cause the sides of the candle to light
up almost to the bottom.

For taller candles, use a mailing
tubc or long rectangular box covered
with whipped wax with an extension
of solid candle on top so that candle
may actually be lighted.

Reprinted from Arts and Crafts Bulletin,
published by Recreation Division of the
Welfare Department, Kansas City, Missouri.
Material prepared by Gunter R. Stave.

222

 

Ovcr-sizc Christmas ornaments, stylized trees and Santa’s sleigh as background for
the imaginative characters and ballet in a 1942 holiday production in San Francisco.

muttOUCH THE YEARS, a community
celebration of Christmas has been a
yearly major festivity, and in many
areas, traditional programs have de-
veloped. Some of the outstanding and
more novel ones may be of interest or
value to other groups who are plan-
ning their celebrations for the holiday
season.

Christmas carol singing on the steps
of the capitol by a chorus of three
thousand voiecs was a feature of the
community Christmas celebration in
liatoniiougc, Louisiana, in 19-15. The
program was opened by Governor
Davis who sang the first verse of “It
Came Upon the Midnight Clear.” The
sponsors of this evening of earoling
were the Baton liouge Parish and Mn-
nieipal Recreation Commission and
the Inter-Civic Club Council.

Santa Claus had a full program in
Louisville, Kentucky, in 1918. Accom-
panied by Mrs. Claus, Snow White and
the Seven Dwarfs and Alice in Wonder-
land, the genial Christmas character
arrived from his Northland home on
an Ohio liiver boat. Scores of small
boats with red and green lights formed
an escort; and the .leilerson County
Playground and lleereation Board ar-
ranged a beautiful display of aerial
fireworks on the river to herald the ap-
proach of the royal party. Every child

334

naments, sports contests, hikes, and
other indoor and outdoor events were
planned to provide adventurous recre-
ation for boys during this school-free

period.

Seventy school children were car-
ried on a earoling tour through the
streets of the capitol city of our na-
tion, aboard an old-time open-sided
street car, in 19-16. The car, which was
equipped with a bright red piano, was
gaily decorated with greenery and
Christmas tree lights.

In 1946, at the Skokie Junior High

School of Winnetka, Illinois, a holiday
program for all races, all creeds was
staged by the school community. In
one of the sequences of the produc-
tion, a traditional Hanukkah candle
lighting ceremony was presented. In
another memorable scene-—-a tableau
of madonnas—several spotlights illu-
minated various places in the audi-
torium where, amid backgrounds of
greens, madonnas garbed in native cos-

(Emma iBrngrams

 

present at the (lock received a person-
ally autOgraphed pietnre of Santa him-
self. During the one week stay, Santa
visited schools and the sick and handi-
capped children, held open house daily
in his Armory headquarters, answered
hundreds of phone calls and letters,
and opened his toymaking headqnar-
ters, which were under the supervision
of his seven dwarf helpers, for inspec-
tion by the children of Lonisville.

ln Los Angeles, a special invitation
was issued to new residents to visit
the playgrounds (hiring the holidays
and get acquainted with their neigh-
bors. The recreation department’s girls’
camp was Opened dnring the school va-
cation for three-day outings for eight
to sixteen year old girls. Special tour-

tumes representing many lands held
their infants in traditional fashion. A
chorus of girls in the balcony sang
“Sleep, Baby, Sleep”; and the narrator
spoke of the universality of the hope
signified by the Christmas Child.

One of the highlights of A Christmas
Fantasy in 19-15, a production which
combined the planning and ellorts of
the recreation: directors and hundreds
of boys, girls and adults from the hous-
ing development centers in San Fran-
eiseo, was the “Wooden Soldier Num-
her.” One hundred and twenty-five
small boys and girls from toy sym-
phony orchestra groups made their
entrance through a huge peppermint
stiek arch, paraded, sang and played
toy symphony selections. Many of the

Racamrtox

attractive costumes used in the produc-
tion were made from worn sheets, do-
nated by the linen rooms of the dormi-
tory projects, which were dyed, de-
signcd and sewed by members of the
group.

The Museum of Science. and Indus-
try in Chicago featured “Around the
World at Christmas” as a contribution
toward greater understanding among
Americans. The program consisted of
a series of Christmas observances typi-
cal of the peoples which comprise our
national heritage. Folk songs, dances,
and Christmas dinners were included
in the festivities which featured a dif-
ferent nationality group each day from
December 1 through December 16,
1945.

In New York City, 1950, the mayor
threw the switch which lighted a tra-
ditional red and green wreath over the
main entrance of the park department
hcadquarters at the Arsenal in Man-
hattan. The wreath, eighteen feet in

to strangers in the city by cards which
were distributed on Christmas morn-
ing to all guests at the principal hotels
and to members of visiting theatrical
companies. The cards bore the follow-
ing holiday message, signed by the
mayor:

“To the stranger within our gates

This festive holiday season

The City of Boston extends

HOSpitable welcome and the

Best wishes of its citizens for a

Happy Christmas and a Prosperous
New Year.”

In the Lubbock, Texas, pr0gram for
1949, Santa Claus visited private homes
where there were sick children. The
recreation department handled the
phone calls and other notifications of
the addresses of the confined tots
whose Christmas was brightened by a
real visit from Saint Nick.

In one city, carolers visited the rail-
road stations on Christmas Eve and
Christmas Day. They boarded trains
during stop-overs, serenaded the pas-
sengers with the well loved carols, and

(Ehrnugh the SEEMS

 

diameter, had a decorative panel in the
ccntcr depicting the three wise men
journcying toward the Star in the East.
Park department gardeners made the
wreath by ingenious use of a variety
of materials such as holly, laurel, pine
cones, moss, soft hemlock, evergreens
and large clusters of red ruscus more
brilliant than holly berries. In all, there
were scveral thousand selected branches
of various materials mounted on a
woodcn framc, braced and reinforced
with thrcc-cighth inch steel rods. The
weight of the wreath was approximate-
ly two thousand pounds.

Boston, in 1923, held a community
celebration with song and pageantry
on Boston Common. In addition, how-
ever, holiday grcetings were extended

NOVEMBER 1952

presented each one with a Christmas
welcome card from the people of the
community.

In Redding, California, in 1951, the
annual celebration for the first day of
the Christmas vacation for school
children was held. Sponsored by the
Retail Merchant Division of the Red-
ding Chamber of Commcrce and con-
ducted by the recreation department,
the gala afl'air consisted of a frce
movie, a parade of the children to an
area containing one hundred progres-
sive party game booths (each one dif-
ferent and gaily decorated). The games
were followed by refreshments served
by the PTA, an outdoor stage show,
and distribution of candy by Santa
Claus to all the children present.

Playgrounds in Memphis, Tennessee,
in 1930, and other years, held a
“Wheeled Contest” during the week
after Christmas. The contest was Open
to all types of wheeled vehicles—bicy-
cles, kiddie cars, toy autos, scooters,
and so forth—and included many cate-
gories of speed and novelty races for
various age groups.

In Salt Lake City, Utah, the cere-
mony of the lighting of the municipal
Christmas tree was heralded by bugle
calls played on four downtown main
corners in 1925. This announcement
was followed by Christmas music
played on the chimes of the city clock,
an assemble call by Boy Scout buglers,
the lighting of the tree and extending
of yuletide greetings to thc citizens by
the mayor, and a wide variety of in-
strumental and vocal music.

I I I

During the last decade, Santa has
arrivcd in a variety of conveyances to
delight the small fry of our cities,
towns and villages. His most prevalent
current modcs of transportation seem
to be by heliCOpter and by airplanes of
all sizes and types; however, he has
made his holiday appearances in other
novel ways in many communities.

A stagecoach carried him into El
Centro, California.

He arrived in a seaplane, escorted
by fifteen planes of a United States
Marine Reserve squadron, transferred
to a speed hoat, and thence to his float
for a parade through Jacksonville,
Florida.

As part of the Christmas regatta,
the good gent came by yacht to New
Port Beach, California.

In manner as old as the Bible, he
rode into Inglewood, California,
astride a donkey.

He parachuted from a plane into
Augusta, Georgia.

A train replaced his sleigh in Deca-
tur, Illinois, and the children of the
city were invited to dress as their
favorite story book or Mother Goose
characters and join in the parade to
escort him from the station to his

Christmas Villagc headquarters in Cen-
tral Park.

335

'O ’./I.

 

Typical of eight other preposcd centers, St. Mary's is a modern brick structure. Cost $1,200,000. First year's registration—38,000.

lens for a large-scale recreation
center program have been prepared
by the Department of Parks of the
(.in of New York, under the leader-
ship of Robert Moses. l’ark Commis-
sioner. member of the City Planning
Commission and City Construction
(.umrdinator. Strategically located in
rongested communities throughout the
city, new centers will provide all-
weather facilities to supplement the
t itv's tremendously capanded park sys-
tem. During the past eighteen years
the park acreage has been douhled,
playgrounds have increased fivefold
and snintming pools cightfold. The
time has now come. for indoor fa-
(ilities to receive equal attention.
The rt'freation center program has
l u‘ :n mspieuous lmginning with the

r pt .1in in 193], of ht. Mary's in the

limo" built at a cost of 31.200900.
T‘pir If the eight other proposed
r' .‘n-r .. ' .1 lnlrk strUeture of mod«
r .. .... n with great banks of win-
m . .i- r11 ittlng daylight operation
\ th th. rnlniunnn amount of artificial
' 'zhttn; It contains 111 indoor swim.

"- n; [r- «I. f-rtv feet In «evenly-five

it)

 

feet, a gymnasium, sixty-five feet by
eighty-six feet, locker and shower fa-
cilities, rooms for games, boxing,
wrestling and exercise, music, meet-
ings. arts and crafts. manual training.
and domestic science. All rooms are
decorated in attractive colors, are ef-
ficiently lighted and provide a whole-
Some environment where children and
adults may pursue their recreational
interests.

Ramps from the lohby located in
the north end of the building lead to
the upper lloor and contribute safety

to building traflie and ease in transpor-
tation of equipment. A cmnmuniea-
tion system for announcements and
broadcasting special interest programs.
to all or selected rooms. is controlled
from the director’s ofliee in the lobby.

During the first year of operation.
St. Mary‘s Park Recreation Center had
a registration of over thirty-eight thou-
sand children and adults. The center
is open every day from 10 a.m. to
11 p.m., excepting Sundays when the
hours are from 12 noon to 7 p.m. The
schedule of operation is:

 

I’M-«School

parent
Mondays Tuesdays
through and
l‘rid'ty- 'l hursdav r‘

l0 a.m. to .. 9- U p.m. "l p.m. to 6:30 p.m.,

t'ialurdu) I.

-' a.m. In 12 noon

 

 

Supcrrised School Groups

Age 4-5. aeeom- I I
panr'ed b) a Juniors, age 6—} I

 

Seniors and

 

Intermediates .4duhs
age I2-I3 In years
and up
Monda 's. Mondays
\l‘ednesdays through
and Fridays Fridays

l0 a.m. to 2:30 p.m.

3 p.m. to 6:30 p.m.
T p.m. to 11 pan.

Saturdays

3 .
12: to p.m. to 3:30 p.m. “will!”

I p.111. to 6:30 p.m.

Sunday . 7 p.m. to 11 p.m.

I2 noon to ."l p.m. Sunda) ‘

3 :50 p.m. to . p.m.

 

RECREATION

 

The scheduled program is flexible
to allow the recreation staff sufficient
latitude to cooperate with the organ-
ized groups and members in promot-

ing any activities they may wish to in-
itiate. A staff of thirty-five employees,
each a specialist in his own field, con-
ducts the activities and takes care of
maintenance and Operation.

Clubs using the center’s specially
designed rooms form the framework
of its recreation program. The Social
Club is the first club that was organ-
ized and it is first in point of service
to thc center. Its members assist in
the planning of special activities, help
ncwcomers become acquainted, and
act as hosts and hostesses at dances
and parties. The Newspaper Club puh-
lishes a monthly bulletin, “The St.
Mary’s Star,” which keeps everyone
informed of events at the center, while
special interest clubs include the dra-
matic workshOp, sewing, photography,
puppetry, music, mothers’ club and
four social and athletic clubs for spe-
cial agc groups—-senior boys, senior
girls, intermediate girls and interme-
diate boys.

The gymnasium is located on the
upper level directly ahove the pool. It
has a regulation basketball court with
four extra backstops at the sides. Fold-
ing bleachers, with a seating capacity
of four hundred, line the two long
walls under twin banks of windows.
The gymnasium is fully equipped for
exhibitions and compctitions, with par-
allel and horizontal bars, buck, sidc
horse, balance beam, elimbing r0pcs,
flying rings, high jump standards, and

NOVEMBER 1952

instructor's platform and mats. Groups
meet in there for basketball, badmin-
ton, folk dancing, acrobatics, tum-
bling, volleyball, gymnastics, social
dancing, calisthenics, wrestling and
weight lifting.

Recent special events held in the
gymnasium were a weight-lifting com-
petition under the auspices of the Me-
tropolitan Weight Lifting Committee;
a gymnastic meet with competition on
the parallel bars, side horse, horizon-
tal bars and still rings; the finals of
the intermediate and senior basket-
ball leagues; a ten-bout boxing cxhibi-
tion; and a basketball clinic at which
college stars prcsided.

The swimming pool always attracts
its share of recreation center members.
Qualified lifeguards .and instructors
tcach swimming, diving and watcr
safety. Built-in bleachers accommodate
one hundred and fifty spectators. Dur-
ing the first Anniversary Open House
Week, special events in the pool were
a competitive mect for boys and girls
twclve to seventccn years of age, a
water ballet and exhibition of synchro-
nized swimming by the Brooklyn Cen-
tral YWCA, and a water polo game
bctween West Point and New York
State Tech teams.

The boxing, wrestling and exercise
room is equipped with a portable elc-
vated boxing ring, striking bags, chest
weights, rowing machine, and mats.
The boys and young men receive their
training here, and a special boxing
instructor gives boxing instructions to
both beginners and advanccd groups.

The manual training room has

twelve double work henches equipped
with vises and bench stops, wood-
working power tools such as band,
scroll, and circular saws, sander, joint-
er, lathe, and hand tools for every type
of wood work are available. Instructors
are on hand to give lessons on use of
the tools and help in the construction
of all types of projects.

The arts and crafts room contains
sturdy work tables and chairs. The end
walls are hung with cork bulletin
boards for the display of art work.
On the long wall Opposite the windows
are double tiers of storage cabincts
centered by a sink placed in a tiled
recess. Tools for every type of hand-
craft are available. Here members find
outlets for creative interests and op-
portunities to deveIOp new skills in
many fields. Sooner or later all mem-
bers are attracted to this room to
sketch, etch, paint in oils or watcr col-
ors, and for craftwork of all kinds.

The domestic science room has a
stove, two large electric coffee urns, re-
frigerator, sink, storage cabinets for
dishes, utensils and cooking supplies
and a large storage pantry. All work
areas are topped with formica. A
dumbwaiter connects with a serving
pantry on the floor above where food
is served for parties held in the gym-
nasium. Home economics instructors
give classes in nutrition and the pur-
chase of food, meal planning and prep-
aration, and help work out individual
cookery problems. Here, too, members
help prepare food for parties.

The two game rooms, naturally; are
the social centers. They afford mem-

337

bcrs an opportunity to make friends
through participation in table games.
dancing to music from the jnke box or
conversing with others. In these rooms
were formed the nuclei for the various
clubs and special interest groups.

The senior game room. painted in
ehartreusc and coral. has two huge
window walls: and is furnished with
[our ping pong tables. a regulation:

FIRST FLOOR

pool and billiard table, game tables
and chairs, a juke box stocked with
records, settees and arm chairs.

The junior game room is a smaller
version of the senior room. liqnip-
Inent includes a television set, a junior-
size pool table, game tables and chairs.
Between the two game rooms is a large

 

storage room lined with shelves for
table games and other equipment.

'l'onrnalnents, both elimination and
ladder type competition. have been
conducted for table tennis. nok-hoekey
and billiards. The l’uppetry Club ga\e
many performances of Cinderella in
the junior game room during the Open
House Week.

The meeting, or multipurpose room

hearsals. The orchestra made its debut
at the Open House senior dance.

The center is located in St. Mary's
Park which. in an area eovcring thir-
ty-fonr acres. has three outdoor play-
grounds; a large recreation area with
boeeie. handball and basketball courts.
baseball diamond, a bicycle and roller
skating area; two areas with tables for
older people; and a free play area.

n||htlt
I"! II

101m!
1" I4!

. 0....0..000. .........

.
I I 0 0 0 00......ICC-IIIIOIIIII....

O
O
- MANUAL TIM-um.
n'I‘O'
O
'2
a :0... o o o o o o 0.0...ooooooooool.:.
_ '00....00.ao.o.o10.0.0.00000'
2
C
: 3
I
v;
.- I
I
i
I
.-
‘
0
I
.- a
9 ..OOO O .
o
IINIOQ Gaul!
o I. I”
I.
t-
l
d
o .

offers a piano, radio and record player
console, portable motion picture pro-
jector and screen, and individual
chairs. Business meetings of all clubs
are held here as well as the regular
meetings of the music club. Some of
the center members have formed an
orehcstra and use this room for re-

 

SECOND FLOOR

Future plans for the development of
the park include swimming pool, one
lmndrcd feet by two hundred twenty-
five feet; a diving pool, forty feet by
fifty feet; and £1 concessions building.
It is expected that funds for the second
phase of the dcvcl0pment will be made
available within the next three years.

 

l n-Servicc Training Program

llegardless of the number of em-
ployccs in our department. we must
have an in-scrvicc training program in
an effort to devel0p good relationships
r—good human relationships between
ourselves and the public we serve.
Some of the subjects to be covered in
such a training program should be to
help the worker to:

I. Have an understanding of the
philosophy of the department. its ob-
jectives. aims and purpose.

2. Know his place in the department
and have a knowledge of the relation-

Um.le [rum "Municipal l’nbhc Relation-I."
by Don Dyer, Milwankrr Director of lieerel-
lion. in The .llum'n'mh'ty. May 1052.

338

ship of his job to that of the other
employees of the department.

3. Be. encouraged to contribute to
the thinking and planning of the area
in which he operates in the depart-
ment; an employee functions best when
he is made to feel that he is an active
part of the program or project and
when he has a sense of positive direc-
tion.

4. linderstand the internal relation-
ships between his department and the
over-all organization.

5. Have a basic knowledge of rnles.
regulations and policies.

6. Take part in a discnssion on per-
sonal appearance and cleanliness; on

personal bearing, habits and deport-
ment; on tone of voice and manner of
speech.

Please remember that public rela-
tions in public service consists of con-
tacts. attitudes. impressions and opin-
ions; these establish the relationship
between the department and the pub-
lic. and it is the employees of the
department who contact the public.
Therefore. every employee whose duties
require him to deal personally with
people is in public relations work. It
is the impression which these em-
ployees leave that raises or lowers all
esteem in which the department is held
by the people it serves, hence the ne-
eessity of in-serviee training.

RECREATon

The COMMUNITY THEATRE

F YOU ARE engaged in community
theatre work you are aware of

how difficult it is to build your box
office. Marcella Cisney, who has been
director for several seasons of the
Little Theatre of Jacksonville, Florida,
and founder-director of the Hillsdale
College-Community Theatre in Michi-
gan, has many helpful ideas on the
subject, and the following remarks are
taken from her article, “The Box Of-
fice” in Organizing the Community
Theatre, published by the National
Theatre Conference and used with
their permission.

High standards of performanee should be maintained. Dueling seene, “The Vagabond
King,” Ogden Community Theatre, a reereation department and Weber College projeet.

NOVEMBER 1952

 

1. Make your theatre exactly what
the term “community” implies, a real
civic center. Do not allow the taint of
the snobbish, clubhouse type of “lit-
tle” theatre to freeze out potentialplay-
goers and talent.

2. Strive ceaselessly for production
standards of highest quality. Never
take refuge in that easy excuse for in-
eptitude, “After all, this is an amateur
group, playing for the love of it.” _

Here are some things you can do in
your campaign to enroll subscribers,
develop eivic support, uncover talent
and, as a result, swell the box office in-

r;

I.

l 1.
ill.“

--«

1"?” Office ”

come substantially.

1. First, sell the local newspaper
editors on the vital need for thorough
coverage. A good newspaper liaison is
a fundamental factor in the success of
a civic theatre.

2. Prepare a careful series of arti-
cles, spaced for release every few days.
Include the plans for the founding of
the new theatre project; objeetives of
the project; some information about
the director, officers; information as
to where performances will take place;
tentative sehedules of plays. Augment
the'stories with pictures; eamera shots
of the campaign workers launching the
drive at a tea; pretty actresses count-
ing membership applications, and of
the dance for raising funds. Try to
give a different twist to the article in
each paper, for editors will not run a
story if the same account has already
been published in a eompeting sheet.

3. Set up bright booths on busy
downtown street corners and depart-
ment store first floors. Stock these
booths with throwaways and gay signs,
and arrange to have them manned by
attractive volunteers to sell member-
ships for the season. Place attraetive
posters in every prominent store win-
dow and in the smaller neighborhood
stores, announeing the new theatre and
its schedule of plays and priccs.

4. Get the mayor to proclaim Civic
Theatre Week with plenty of fanfare.

5. Persuade the local radio stations
to give daily announcements on the.
forthcoming theatre project as a pub-

339

lie service.

6. Launch classes for adults in speech
and drama. and for children in crc-
ativc dramaties. You will find a cul-
tural need and develop fresh talent in
this manner.

7. Cordially invite all local talent,
through the papers, to answer a gen-
eral casting call. Let everyone have a
fair chance to read a role. Stress “the-
best-man-wins" attitude in casting
and stick to it fairly; but be tactful
in announcing selected players so that
no friends will be lost.

8. Distribute complimentary season
tickets to a selected group of influen-
tial citizens, including the local edi-
tors, reviewers, columnists, antique
dealers (you will be borrowing prop-
ertics from them), furniture and smart
dress shops (they will lend wardrobe
and set trimmings), and stafT at the
local radio station.

9. Arrange several benefit perform-
ances during the year for local or na-
tional causes, such as the Community
Chest, March of Dimes, and others.
Take plays to nearby veterans’ hos-
pitals, and aid all good civic projects
whenever possible.

10. If the city boasts a local group

p

Ii A M l I."

T HP. term “family recreation” cov-
ers those activities which individu-
al members of a family enjoy doing
together. While home games, movies,
parties and “just the family” activi-
lies are important aspects of recrea-
tion, we also should be interested in
expanding this type of “doing to-
gether" to include several or more fami-
lies. The planning and execution of
sncll a program will olTer all the assets
of the family affair, plus opportunities
for cooperation with other family units
in the (evclopment of activities or
projects in which they have a common
stake and provide for the realization of
nmtnal goals.

Family recreation: programs should
offer a chance for participation to all
members, of all ages; and can be car-
ried on in the following settings:

I. The home, yards, rooftOps. porch-

340

of talented amateur photographers,
talk them into making the theatrical
photographs for the season in return
for publicity. lobby displays of their
work. and an exhibition of the club's
best prints. This will eliminate a big
expense item in your budget, pro-
mote good will. and insure loving
work from the photo fans.

11. Develop plans for making the
lobby attractive and showman-like.
Since this is the place where the play-
house first presents itself to the public.
help it put “its best foot forward” by
displaying model sets, pictorial dis-
plays of theatre activities, water colors
of sets, costume plates, and other at-
tractions.

12. Set up Community Theatre dis
play boards in hotel lobbies to attract
transient trade.

13. Interest local clubs in running
theatre parties, at special prices, for
groups of twenty-five or more.

14. Plan an elTective-looking pro-
gram with a handsome cover and in-
teresting reading matter for theatre
goers. Pay for the printing by selling
advertisements.

15. Plan at least one major Chil-
dren’s Theatre Production each sca-

es, living rooms, kitchens, play rooms.

2. Community centers, churches,
schools, park pavilions, YMCA’s and
YWCA’s, a housing project huilding

. and the space around it.

3. Community facilities (other than
those mentioned above), playgrounds.
parks, beaches, swimming pools, tennis
courts, fair grounds, woods. zoos, fra-
tcrnal halls, civic auditorinms, cam-
puses. roller and ice skating rinks.

Types of Family Recreation

l. Talent nights and amateur shows.

2. Group singing with some action
songs thrown in. (See October 1951
issUe. of ltscamrmx. “Singing with
Motion" by Frank Anncberg.)

3. Fun nights, offering both active
and passive activities.

4. Tournaments. with the finals used
as an excuse for a special get-together

son. Interest the PTA. board of educa-
tion, and local teachers in the project.

16. Interest other civic groups in
joint productions. Example: The Eve
of 5!. Mark. eo-sponsored by the
American Legion. or Knickerbocker
Holiday, produced in cooperation with
the Rotary Club. Longer runs and
wider mass audiences will result from
such ventures.

17. Mark every possible anniversary
or noteworthy event by a celebration,
well publicized. Examples: a reception
for the new director. a party for a vis-
iting luminary.

18. Respond to all calls for speeches
at organizational meetings, luncheon
clubs, women’s clubs and other groups.
Every elTective platform appearance
wins new drama friends.

Do not do any of these things with
purely mercenary motives. Do them
because they will make your new
theatre of real eivic worth and enrich
its activities. Integrity is very impor-
tant in the amateur theatre. If you
are honestly trying to broaden the
services, develop the latent talent. and
improve the artistic quality of your
theatrc's work, the income from the box
office will swell correspondingly.

Ii ECI‘IEATlbe

in the form of a party or fun night.

5. Favorite family activities, includ-
ing spelling bees, guessing games,
tricks. group erafts projects, music.
bowling, skating, boating, candy-pull-
ing, corn pOpping. storytelling.

6. Quiz shows.

7. Progressive parties.

8. Scavenger and treasure lmnts.

9. Square dancing.

10. Beach parties, picnics. hikes.
pot-luck suppers.

11. .Camping.

12. County fairs. pet shows, circuses.
l3. llobby shops or fairs.

M. Trips and tours.

15. Visits to nmseums, exhibits, .pe-
cial movies, plays and concerts.
l6. Nature activities such as garden-

ing. fl m er arranging, star-gazing. bird
walks. bird feeding.

RECREATION

SKIING —-

NEED NOT
BE EXPENSIVE

O A community located smack in
thc heart of the northeastern skiing
country, Rutland, Vermont, found it a
ticklish matter, until last year, to pro-
vide complete winter recreation for its
younger set. There were adequate skat-
ing areas within the city, as well as
many slcdding hills and ample facili-
ties for indoor sports. But when the
skies overhead turned leaden and the
weather brisk, the youngsters looked
toward nearby snow-covered hills and
mountains for their fun.

That was where the problem en-
tered. The nearest skiing center, Pico
Peak, is situated about nine miles
away from the city, and visited only
occasionally by buses. Rutland’s rec-
rcation departmcnt, therefore, started
wcckly bus trips to Pico, free of charge
to the snowbunnies, but abandoned the

 

Portable ski tow, mounted on floor pan of
aluminum, is lightweight, rustproof, sturdy.

project soon afterward when the ink
on the expense sheets turned to red.
Seeking an alternative, I spoke to
a member of a local sporting goods
storc, who suggcstcd that a local, por-
table ski tow might be the answer.
As it finally turned out, he was right.
The portable tow was purchased and
set up by thc recreation department

JAMES F. l'lliRDIC, JR.,is superintendent
of recreation in Rzztland, Vermont.

NOVEMBER 1952

staff on a hill of the nearby Rutland
Country Club, within walking distance
of the city’s husiness and residential
districts. immediate and
overnight success. Children of all ages
used the tow during every free hour
and by the end of the season, the rec-
reation department had tallied five
hundred ski enthusiasts who had visit-
ed the new ski area.

It turned out to be one of the most
economical and successful projects un-
dertaken by the department. The com-
plete cost, everything included, was
only five hundred and fifty dollars,
and the tow can be used for many
seasons with proper care. This was a
comparatively small sum compared to
that which the Pico Peak buses would
have cost had we continued to use

It was an

them all winter.

   

    

v P
I' . .r
'r

A

   

I-

It can be easily lifted by two men, and fits
compactly into the trunk of almost any car.

'Having a tow on a slope near the
concentration of the population of the
city, provides an opportunity for in-
struction in elementary skiing and the
formation of a junior ski club. Being
in an area where there is great cn-

thusiasm in this sport, there are many

top grade skiers who are interested
in seeing the young people develop
into good skiers—perhaps even into
another Andrca Mead, from Pico Peak,
Rutland, who is an Olympic champion.

James F. Herdic, Jr.

The portable tow used hy our de-
partment, can be set up on a ten to lif-
teen degree slope, and can accommo-
date from live to eight people at onc
time. Through experience, we have
found that the smoothest ride is pro-
duced when there are five users at
one time.

An automatic governor insures one
speed—from six to fourteen miles per
hour——and the motor carries a nincty-
day guarantee, in the event of an un-
expected breakdown. The 10.1 horse-
power motor is constructed on a sled
and is economical, using only a meag-
er amount of gasoline.

Light in weight, the tow can be
lifted hy two men with ease and is sim-
ple to rig, with a forged steel anchor
hitch to keep it securely in place. It
is so neatly compact that it can lit
into the trunk of almost any car with-
out trouble. In short, the tow is easy
to transport, easy to set up, and easy

to use.

Special Features of Tow

1. A snowfloat with curved tubo-
trussed airplane type construction. An
all-welded frame, the stainless steel
nose and the aluminum floor pan keep
it really lightweight and rust proof,
yet sturdy.

2. The duradrive, powered by a 10.1
horsepower engine, built for heavy-
duty, heavy-weather use. The drive
spool is a lightweight aluminum alloy
casting, safely covered with a heavy
gauge streamlined guard.

3. The runrite r0peguide, a neat ar-
rangement of free turning spinncrs.
The horizontal rollers are hall-bearing
mounted to cut the friction where it
counts. The vertical rollers spin free
and easy on their bronze bushing
posts.

4. The tow r0pe, made in one-half-
inch size which will not twist while
operating. The rope is twelve hundred
feet long, for anything up to a six
hundred foot tow, and is made of pure
Manila fibre, waterproofed and lubri-
cated to reduce stretching and shrink-
ing and to withstand winter weather.

A portable ski tow of this sort may
be the answer to your skiing problems.

34]

Try Sonnething
Different!

In presenting the following trieks, be sure that you understand the instructions
and follow them to the letter. These are simple enough to present with little
preparation, but be sure to have all parts of the triek ready. Most of them can
be used as quiekies in a gathering of any age-from small boys to grandmothers.

Mysterious Fork

l’luck the lines of a fork with the thumb and index
finger of your right hand. Now with great ceremony place
the fingertips of your free hand on a glass, vase or some
other object and draw from itr -to the bewilderment of the
onlookers' -a ringing musical note. The placing of your
free hand on some objeet~ and perhaps giving a talk on
magic while you are doing so—is only for effect. The
trick is done with the other hand. Lower the fork to the
table as soon as the tines have been plucked. The table
acts as a sounding board and allows the note from the
make-shift tuning fork to be heard.

Where Did the Coin Co?

l’astc a piece of paper aeross mouth of small glass and
trim neatly. Now place glass mouth down on'a sheet of pa-
per of same color. 0n the sheet of paper lay a coin. Cover
glass with handkerchief and set over coin. When handker-
chief is removed. coin will have disaplmared, as it is un-
dcr the paper which is pasted to glass. llave hidden an-
other min the same as the other. and produce it.

\il’l

 

312

The Jumping Spoon!

Tie a thread fhlack) to bottom of a spoon at its nar-
rowest point. Tic other end of thread. which is about
twelve inches long, to button or belt. Now drop spoon in
glass or cup, and as you push eup or glass away from you.
the spoon will rise out as if by some spiritual force. When
pulled slowly baek. spoon will lower into cup.

 
   
 

Fasten Thread in
Bolton 0r Belt

Restored Match Triek

A match is broken under cover of handkerchief: and
when handkerchief is removed. the mateh is restored un-
broken. Before starting. slip a mateh in hem of handker-
chief. Now hold another match and cover with prepared
handkerchief. bringing match in hem underneath to top.
Have someone break match (the one in hem )and when
handkerehief is removed. match is unbroken.

Card Magie

From a deck of cards place five or six Jacks, Kings or
Queens on a table in an orderly row. Ask someone to turn
some. of the cards around while you are out of the room.
and when you return you will tell them which cards have
been reversed. Notice that the cards have a wider margin
at one end. When you plaee them on the table. have all the

It cones-nox-

wide margins nearest you. When you return to the room it
is a simple matter to see which cards now have narrow
margins nearest you.

Invisible Writing

(This is fun to use in telling fortunes.)

Before presenting, write on a piece of paper a fortune
pertaining to anyone. Use a new, clean pen point and write
with the juice of a lemon. When dry, hold over a candle
and the heat will bring out a clear spirit message.

 

Floating Needle

To make a needle float, have a small dab of wax under
your thumb nail. Ask others to try to float the needle first.
When they cannot, you draw the needle across the wax un-

der your thumb nail, and to the amazement of all, it will
HoaL

Partners
Mind Reading

Have each person write a question on a slip of paper.
After they fold slips, have them drop the papers in a box
or hat. Mind reader holds first question to forehead, first
giving answer, then reading question, asking who wrote it.
Magician unfolds paper to verify it, then he takes another
slip, places it to forehead‘ and reads it. Have it arranged
ahead of time with a secret partner from the group that
the first question, no matter what it is, is the one he
wrote. When magician opens slip as if to verify, he is in
reality reading the next one, and so on.

Tom Thumb

Three objects are placed in front of the leader, one of
which is selected by the group while his confederate is out
of the room. Upon returning, the latter pretends to make
a difficult decision, and then names the correct article. The
leader has signalled him with his thumbs. His hands are
folded in his lap and very quietly he crosses his right
thumb over his left to indicate the article on the right; his
left thumb over the right one to indicate the article on the

left; and his thumbs parallel and together to indicate the
center article.

NOVEMBER 1952

Tricks and Stunts for Those Who Are Young

Elusical Slums
Put It to Music

Provide each guest with a laundry slip listing articles of
clothing. Then inform the guests that they are to sing to
the tune of “East Side, West Side” the words appearing
down the side of the laundry slip. Some of the combina-
tions of words will fit perfectly. Others must be run in
under the direction of the leader. The stunt has been suc-
cessfully tried with the use of quotations from literature
or poetry set to music. For example, Portia’s famous mercy
speech has heen set to the music of “There’s a Long, Long
Trail” in a most interesting fashion.

Human Organ

Eight persons stand in line facing the audience. If four
are dressed in black and four in white, the black and white
alternating, the effect will be greatly enhanced. One per-
son stands in back of this line and plays the organ, touch-
ing first one, then another on the head. The person touched
stoops and then assumes his original position, at the same
time uttering the necessary sound. The organist may play
“Yankee Doodle” or anything familiar to the crowd. At the
same time, chimes may be played. A variation of this stunt
is to have the hands of the persons representing the organ
stuck through holes in a sheet with the organist playing
on the hands.

Topsy Turvy Concerts

This entertainment needs only a screen or a curtain
stretched across any room. It is well to have the performers
practically the same size, as the screen or curtain should
conceal all of the body of each singer except the head and
neck. The only preparation required is that the arms and
hands of the performers, who stand in a row back of the
curtain, shall be covered with stockings and that shoes
shall be worn on each hand, with the soles of the shoes
pointing forward so that the toes will he turned toward the
spectators, who are seated in front of the curtain at a
little distance back. At the conclusion of each verse the
singers steep down very quickly all together, lowering
their heads and elevating their arms above the curtain. The
effect thus produced is to make the singers seem to be
standing on their heads. They keep time with their feet (or
rather hands) to the music of the song. The sudden
changes when done simultaneously, will never fail to
amuse. If each concert number can be announced with a
flowery speceh it adds to the amusement. The manager
might wear a frock coat and a tall hat.

343

Richard Hartt

 

Laughing lace: and reminders of fun he is
missing help speed recovery of a bed-bound
friend of the earolers. Ilalts were made at the
homes of lilteen of the Canogu I’nrk shut-ins.

lt Wm. a uurprise to folks. at Mrs. “'ehster's-
when the rerenaders interrupted the routine
of the home with their gay songs. Said Mm.
“ ehster, “It was good of them to think of us."

 

It all started with a hearty pot-luck dinner pre ared by some of the moth:
There were no piekv eaters here. and certain 3* parents were no exeeptil

 

ltitlers reueh eluhhuuw \ite after dark, but still m tune to entertain l
huiltlcr- who a-it in their wheel chairs or on lnnldlng blocks ms they IN
while tht' lmmlinr melody of an old favorite. "Home till the Range. n m

 

f”? ltlcm‘wmx

0 Parents in (Janoga Park, California, are sleepy-eyed these. day s. It isn't because
they’re worried about where their children are and what they’re doing, however.
They are simply trying to keep up with their youngsters and are having a time of it.

Take, for instance, an idea that popped up last year. The children decided to
go on an afternoon and evening horseback serenade. It was only a couple of miles
to where some paraplegic veterans were building their own club; and there was
Mrs. Webster’s older folks” home: and one of the smaller children was ill. Why
not serenade them? So, it was decided, with assistance from the Los Angeles Ree-
reation and Park Department, and under the supervision of Tom MeDougal of that
department. (This activity has since been added to the recreation department's
Christmas Observances as a regular feature.~-Ed.)

A group of the mothers brought to the playground a pot-luck dinner calculated
to re-stoke parents and youngsters for the arduous activities ahead. However,
mothers and used dishes were soon left behind. '

The serenade finished later at night than planned. Someone always seemed to
want “one more song” and, although it was getting chilly, the young people always
obliged. But the glow of happiness which they spread abroad that night was such
that everyone, parents included, felt that the time had been well spent.

 

MR. HARTT is a free-lance photographer and writer, Pasadena.

 

All set to go! This member’s expression
gives some idea of the genera] enthusiasm
felt by all of the youngsters in the group.

 

There are always those who have difficulty leaving the table, even
with Dobbin neighing in the yard; a last bite is hurriedly eaten.

After dinner there is a hurried saddle-up to get to paraplegics
construction job before the men leave their work for the day.

 

In return, the singers are entertained with a few verses of
Clementine, . and the builder chorus is roundly checrcd before
the group, With snatches of songs and laughter, gain departs.

Novmmen 1932

As the fog begins to gather, many weary but ha )py good-byes
are called, and another merry serenade on horse ack, with its
fellowship and music which have brought cheer to many, is ended.

' 345

HOBBIES
MADE PROFITABLE
FOR THE DISABLED

WINEN MOST PEOPLE think ofprofit-

able hobbies, they think in ma-
terial terms. But at The Federation of
the flandieappcd, it is not dollars and
cents which make hobbies profitable.
Instead of money in the bank, new and
mote useful lives cotne into being
through hobbies.

Steve, for instance, at eighteen was a
strong. good looking young fellow
finishing his senior year in high school.
His hobby was athletics, aml he was
an outstanding player. lie was on the
varsity baseball team and was a pile-
driving fullback on the football squad.
It was said that several big league
scouts were interested in him when.
without warning. polio struek. After a
year of therapy. Steve was told that he
would he on crutches for life. He tried
to hide frottt the world. hating every-
one who had two good legs. Without
athletics, life scented empty and use-
less to him.

It took a lot of pressure to induce
ltim to come to The Federation of the
Handicapped. When he came. he was

given help In deciding on a new
'areer: but he was obviously only go-
ing through the motions. in despera-
tion. his eouusclor suggested a visit to
the photography class. lieluetantly.
Steve began to do darkroom chores. to

eolor some photos. and to tentatively

 

Al’Tthtt is director 0/ service's. Fer!-
emtt’on n/ the Handicapped, N's-1e York

3K1

Dr. Herbert Rusalem

play with the idea of handling a cam-
era. As his work took shape, however.
he began to appraise hintsclf anew.
There were other things lte could do.
The door wasn’t shut against achieve-
ment for him. in time, his hopelessness
gave way to enthusiasm. There is now
a new note in Steve’s voice. Not only
does he have a hobby, but a whole new
reason for going on living. lle exem-
plifies Federation’s concept of re-
habilitation through hobbies.

The “Fed,” as our handi 'apped
members affectionately refer to it, is a
unique institution. ll is an agency set
up for the handicapped in which the
members have a voice in administra-
tion. When a disabled person applies
for and gains membership. h ' acquires
the responsibilities of sharing in the
work of one of the largest rehabilita-
tion organizations in the country. The
“Fed” maintains a staff of physicians.
psychologists.
workers. a

counselors, researeh
psychiatrist. therapists.
group workers and social workers to
serve the needs of the handicapped in
the New York area. This staff. serving
under policies determined by a board
of directors. many of whom are handi-
capped. and assisted by the member-
ship. serves handicapped people in a
thousand different ways every month.
However. the most spectaenlar and
useful part of the work is the largest.
most extensive hobby- program for dis-
abled people in the Country.

six hundred different
persons take part in one or tnore ae-
tivities at the “Fed” every year. Some

More than

come via public transportation on
crutches. others are transported along
with their wheel chairs by the Ameri-
can lied Cross, and still others drive
up to the door in their own specially-
equipped cars. (Incidentally, Federa-
tion’s auto operators have splendid
records of accident-free driving.l By
and large, they are people whose
handicaps are so severe that the hobby
programs of their own communities do
not meet their needs.

Each week, by the hundreds. they
make their way to their own organiza-
tion. where they can ride a hobby
horse to rehabilitation.

For example, the public speaking
elub. conducted by a severely disabled.
brilliant young wotnan. has many re.-
habilitation notches inscribed on its
belt. liveryoue likes to have an audi-
enee. it's a line hobby to have others
share your ideas and information. But.
Federation's members. like so many
others. were shy and reticent abottt
mounting a platform and delivering a
forceful talk. Theu Dale Carnegie en-
tered the picture. lfc adopted this class
as his hobby. lie sent teachers at his
own espense and supplied the mem-
bers with books and other equipment.
Dozens of disabled men and wonten
took the regular Dale Carnegie course
and graduated with classmates from

RECREATION

all over the city. This was public speak-
ing for fun. No dismal lessons and
drills, but lots of fun and socialization.
As time went by, even the most with-
drawn began to self-confidently sell
themselves to personnel offices. Several
found jobs and attributed their success
to riding the public speaking hobby.
Others began to extend their hohby.
They began to “talk up” their Federa-
tion and to rally public support behind
its program.

Perhaps the greatest triumph of this
group was its work with the cerebral
palsied. So many people with cerebral
palsy have impaired speech, which in
turn impairs their human relations,
that it has become a challenge to work-
ers in the ficld. After several sessions,
a number of these folks with impaired
spcech began to lose their fears and
resolutely put their best foot forward.

.

 

- , «.‘A -

Playgrounders in Kansas City will not forget Bobby who,
despite palm—inflicted handicap, has helped with many
of the aetmties and instructed smaller children in crafts.

For many, the public speaking hobby
has become an on-going thing. Talking
to others has become more fun, and
the way has been opened to better
living.

But public speaking isn’t the whole
story. Do you recall the rollicking long-
run musical, Oklahoma? Can you pic-
lure it being performed by a cast of
disabled persons? Well, it was done,
and done beautifully. Not only did this

NOVEMBER 1952

w

group play the parts, but they made
the scenery, rewrote the script, did the
public relations and took the tickets.
They didn’t make any money—all of
F ederation’s activities are without cost
or fee-———but they collected huge divi-
dends of fun and growth.

Previously, many of these young
adults had experienced unhappy and
frustrating times, wishing to follow the
footlights. Like all youngsters they had
yearned for their share of stardust.
The footlights are as attractive to the
handicapped as to all others. In school
and in their communities, there never
had been the opportunity. Who would
think of asking a girl on crutches to
play Julict or a hoy in a wheel chair
to play Macbeth?

Someone did think of it at Federa-
tion of the Handicapped. A theatrc
workshOp was organized, and its mem-
hers produce, act in, and
direct three to four pro-
ductions a year. Fur-
thermore, its director
and moving spirit is a
young woman who her-
self is a disabled per-
son. Out of this hobby
have come profits of

-- good times and good
V‘
‘

" feelings. Instead of
counting the box office
receipts in dollars, Fed-
eration can count them
in something more im-
portant—a sense of sat-
isfaction in being able
to do things as well as
other people. It is this
sense which carries over
to a disabled person’s
job, his family, and his
other hobbies.

The stories of these
hobhics can be multi-
plied many fold. Often
a hobby is developed
and followed with profit. Many handi-
capped men and women have learned
one-hand and two-hand typing, just
for the sheer joy of mastering the
machine and using it for personal
pleasure. Out of these experiences,
some have awakened to the fact that
they can work—they can learn to type
and make a living at it. This holds
true of folks who have taken up such
hobbies as bookkeeping, stenography,

ceramics, art, crafts and civil service
preparation. These have been hugely
successful, because they have been pre-
sented and taught, not as some weighty
course in a college catalog, but as a
means of having fun and learning at
the same time. Never does the subject
matter in F ederation’s hobbies become
more important than people.

Take the case of Susan. Handi-
capped hy cerehral palsy, she had had
little fun. When others were out en-
gaging in sports and dancing, Sue had
to sit hy and watch. She began to feel
that other people didn’t want her
around. She became angry at people
without handicaps. “If they hate me.
I’ll show them. I’ll have nothing to do
with them.” Sue became almost a pris-
oner in her own house. A great hatred
filled her and made her desperately
unhappy. Sue had no hohbies. Her
only diversion was the television set
and she soon tired of that.

Someone suggested the “F ed” to
her, but she scornfully rejected the
idea. “It’s no use,” she said, “if you
get a group of unhappy disabled peo-
ple together. they don’t become hap-
pier.” If it could ‘be called a hobby,
Sue may have had one. She enjoyed
watching people, like a sort of human
candid camera. This gave her great
pleasure, for she could easly seciev-
eryone’s weaknesses and inwardly de-
ride them. She often told her parents
that she was an amateur psychologist.
Then the word was passed about that
the “Fed” was giving a course in the
“Psychology of Everyday Living.” No
homework, or assignments, or any-
thing like that. Just a group of friend—
ly folks who wanted to follow their
psychology hobhy together.

When Suc first came to the psycho-
logy group, she was bitter. She was not
reluctant to present her ideas about the
cruelty and worthlessness of mankind.
thn the other members of the class
cxpressed different ideas, Sue was
tempted to walk out. They seemed ob-
stinate and stupid to her. Didn’t she
see it all so clearly? After a while, in
spite of herself, she began to like some
of the members and to want to be with
them. Seeing the shortcomings of oth-
ers became less pleasurable. Psycholo-
gy could be fun and could be useful.
PeOple could learn to like each other
and work cooperatively. Gradually,

34?

Sue's viewpoint changed as she became
more interested in her hobhy. She be-
gan to see that she had ideas that
were "sick" ideas. and finally. she got
up enough courage to ask for counsel-
ing help at the “Fed.” At the latest re-
port Sue is riding her hobby as strong..-
ly as ever and the profits are coming
in, in the eoin of a new personality.
Psychology has been a profitable
hobby.

The story is the same in the news-
paper group. Through writing their
own newspaper—The Voice 0/ F «1-—
and riding the hobby of journalism. a
number of handicapped men and wom-
en have found new satisfactions. Once
again, they ean create. They can
weave words and ideas into a pattern
which makes eonnnunication easy and

pleasurable. They can see the sheets
coming off the presses. fresh and sharp
and pungent with the smell of printer's
ink. This hobby has been cspeeially
fine for a few of our home-bound per-
sons who have felt the walls closing in
around them. figuratively and literally.
Their voices have been searching for
a sounding board. Their ideas, burn-
ing within them like flames, have
been looking for an outlet. Now. their
voices are heard and they look forward
to their monthly assignments.

Last year, rain, snow or shine. over
fifteen activities attracted more than
a hundred and fifty disabled persons
weekly. When our annual llobby'
Night, with its many demonstrations.
speeches and awards. closed the l95l
recreation season in June, it marked

the end of a most successful year. And,
profitable hobbies continue to be pur-
sued. and new activities and new hob-
bies offered. Come to see us. and you
may find a young fellow on crutches
lobbying for his hobby—Spanish—
which he uses at Spanish movies, a
Mexican restaurant, and to get a break
in the export business. You may run
into a boy in a wheel chair playing
basketball with the poise of a pro. You
may see a young, bashful woman pain-
fully making her way with two canes
into a discussion on marriage prob-
lems. which follows a semi-monthly
documentary film.

Profitable hobhies? Federation of-
fers them every night, every week in
the year. Count the profits—they arc
in human lives.

 

Helena. G. Hoyt
[903-1952.

 

“RS. “ELENA 0. “(WT died suddenly on Sunday, October 19, at her
, New York City apartment. During the past eighteen months she had
been serving as field representative for Defense lfelated Services for the
National Recreation Association. Her work carried her to army posts
and to air and navy bases, to connnunities large and small.

Before joining the association in its defense work, Mrs. Hoyt was
eity recreation director in Syracuse, New York. for six years. Her serv-
ice there as executive marked a reorganization and expansion of the
reercation department which she had known intimately as recreation
leader, district supervisor, supervisor of women’s and girls' activities.
and assistant director. She was appointed acting recreation director in

1945, and director in 1946.

The lessons learned in the years of development were applied vig-
orously during her five years as executive. She built a recreation pro-
gram on a blueprint of service to all persons, strengthened the staff of
year-round and seasonal workers. and developed a recreation depart-
ment whieh was an integral part of the total community effort for
recreation. This was done with the techniques of a true leader and the
force of a tremendous personality. She was always at ease, never at
rest. Long hours, financial growing pains. and the many problems of

the task never stopped her.

When she left Syracuse in 195], Mrs. lloyt found it necessary to resign from twenty -onc different coyn-
inunity organizations with which she had been afliliated. She had serxed as chairman of the Group Work
Division and member of the board of the Council of Social Agencies. water safety chairman of the Onan-
daga Chapter of the American lied Cross. vice chairman of the Syracuse Crime Prey ention Committee. presi-
dent of Zonta. president of the New York State Public Recreation Society, member of the lieereation [mad-
ership Standards Committee of the National Recreation Association, and recreation chairman for the county
civil dpfemc, other similar affiliations were also a part of the job she lived in her twenty-four hour days.

Alwau she carried with her the philosophy that people are good. and that good recreation makes pc0ple
better. She ncxcr preached this philosophy, but anyone who knew her long could see it shining in her every
action. This vision and its down-to-earth application she brought with her to the national scene as she went

from place to place. analyzing. inspiring. and leading to action the community groups “just like Syracuse."
There was not much time left for a personal life. but the little time there was she spent in living to the hilt.

as joy onsly as if it. too. were a carccr.
llelena lloyt died without serxing the many other good years which she had hoped to spend. and the
people whom she knew and lmed will miss her. As the editor of Empire wrote in 1931. "Whatever was to

be done. she did with self-sacrifice. c-onrage and ability. . . . Like all genuine women. she was modest with-

out conceit."

3 to

litZCtttIATIOV

Making Musio Tangible

Dr. Elin K. Jorgensen

IIE PURPOSE of making music tangi-

ble is to attract children to music
because its activities are inviting, and
to offer every child an opportunity to
use music at his own level of ability.
By enjoying music ill the immediate
present in many informal experiences,
we can hope to promote readiness for
further use of music as the child con-
tinues his deveIOpment.

Children need to explore their e11-
vironment for the musical resources it
contains, not only in the usual forms
but in the tonal possibilities discovered
through curiosity and used with imagi-
nation. Striking and tapping ordinary
objects can often reveal unrealized
musical effects. While such exploration
is going on there is attentive listening
and the results focus attention on the
children’s ingenuity. This type of ac-
tivity should be approached with the
attitude of freeing children to dev010p
their own ideas in the ways that seem
most worthwhile and intcresting to
them. If full value to personality de-
velopmcnt is to accrue, individual pupil
thinking and not teacher dictation
must determine direction and goals.

For too long we have emphasized
hard work and drill on facts that are
not related to any real musical necd

DR. JORGENSEN is associatc professor
of music education in the Music Edu-
cation Department, Kaasas University.

NOVEMBER 1952

or child interest. Specific knowledge
and skill should grow out of a widely
varied but related experience in rote
singing, rhythms. playing on simple
instruments, listening and making orig-
inal melodies. When music is tangi-
lJle it is easy to understand because
musical elcments such as rhythm, mcl-
ody and harmony can be seen, touched
and felt. It is a direct approach by
the child to the heart of music whereby
he is free to explore possibilities and
discover for himself relationships that
to him are meaningful.

Ways of making music tangible to
children:

1. Use of bells, triangles and tam-
bourines to accompany songs or selec-
tions played to children. These should
be used separately to acquaint the chil-
dren with their tonal possibilities and
not organized into a rhythm band in
the kindergarten or first grade. Chil-
dren should choose which of these
types of instruments is appropriate to
accompany the particular song and
thcn keep tinle to the music as they
hear it without counting beats accord-
ing to an adult imposed pattcrn. After
much informal rote eXperience with
these instruments, others can be added.

In the second grade some organized
group work in rhythm band may be
tried, but the children should still de-
cide with the help of the teacher how
the various instruments can best ac-

company the selection uscd. These de-
cisions can be recorded on large charts
using picturc symbols of the instru-
ments, and this will promote reading
readiness, for the chart has meaning
for them. When the rhythm band is
used above the second or third grade,
then the purpose is to promote the
reading of parts, using more intricate
music. Usually after expcricnce in sec-
ond or third grade the children are
ready to move on to some other types
of instrumental experience. However,
in a rural school it offers a group ex.-
perience that can be adapted to vari-
ous ages, with the youngest playing
the simplest kind of time beating and
the oldest members reading parts that
demand concentration on the score.
Where scores are desired, the follow-
ing may be helpful:

How to Teach the Rhythm Band,
Diller and Page. G. Schirmer. 3.25.

The Folk Tune Book, Diller and
Page. G. Schirmer. $2.50.

The Schubert Book, Diller and Page.
G. Schirmer. $2.50.

Many selections, picture-scored by
Stickle, may be ordered from C. D.
Birchard. These are planned for pri-

mary grades; those listed above are
for intermediate.

2. Water glasses that have a clear
bell-like tone when struck may he
filled with water and tuned to scale,

providing Opportunity for melody.

349

making. both rote and original. The
book that the third grade teacher can
use is Playing and Composing, by
Coleman: Reynal and llitchcock. pub-
lishcrs. i

Older grades can also use water
glasses if the} have not previoust
tried them, and use melodies of wider
range and difliculty. Lovely effects have
been achieved with playing in two
parts and they can be combincd with
other instruments listed.

3. Drums and rattles can be made
that, with background reading, will

contribute to the children’s under-

“Understanding”

Thc resources of a university have
been drawn upon in Michigan to em-
phasize to recreation executives their
relationship to other fields of public
function, and to review with them the
latest thinking in related fields of
professional research and study. Top
men in their departments in the Uni-
versity of Michigan have discussed
such subjects as Recreation and City
l’lanning. Recreation and Government-
al Services, Recreation and Social
Problems, Recreation and Group
Work, the i’sycholOgy of the Adoles-
cent, the Significance of Group Dy-
namics in the Field of Recreation, and
Relation of Recreation and Adult Edu-
cation. These subjects have not been
treated in lectures: but each in an in-
formal two-hour session, three-fourths
of which has been discussion follow-
ing an introduction to thc subject by
the professors. There have been two
exceptions to the leadership of Uni-
versity professors. One discussion was
led by a city manager and another by
a psychologist in private practice.

Three such institutes, which began
at two o'clock one day with a session
that afternoon and evening, followed
by a morning and afternoon session

 

\VtLLlAM C. Itomssos is assistant in
community organimn'on. Extension
Service, University of .ifiehigan.

350

standing of people in other times and
places. Recommended to be read by
fourth grades or told to younger chil-
dren is The Drum Book, by Coleman:
Reynal and llitChCoek. publishers.
The history of the drum around the
world is told in this book, making it
a valuable reference for social studies
in upper grades, even though the aetu-
al making of them is not contemplated.
4. The psaltery provides expcricncc
with stringed instruments and may he
purchased from G. Schirmer. This
model was designed by Mrs. Coleman
for use by children. It is of musical

quality and the strings are widely
spaced for playing in unison and two
parts. The I’saltery Book, by Coleman:
G. Schimer, publisher. 33.50-85.00.

5. The auto harp is similar to the
psaltery but it plays chords. not melo-
dies. lt is equipped with bars, each of
which plays a chord. The more bars on
the instrument, the greater number of
chords are available for use and the
greater the expense. They may be or-
deer from Targ and Dinner for Slit
and $26, or Montgomery Ward or G.
Schirmer. Auto Harp Accompani-
ments, by Fox; C. C. Birchard.

Through Discussion

the next day, have been held since
June 1950. Another meeting preceded
the mid-winter gathering of the Michi-
gan Recreation Association

afternoon and evening session.

Another institute is being planncd
for later this year. The School of Busi-
ness Administration, the School of
Public Health. the Department of
Landscape Architecture, the School of
Education, the Institute for Social Re-
search, and other departments of the
University will be drawn upon for
session leaders. The Michigan Recrea-
tion Association bas financed the pro-
gram, with the Extension Service of
the University furnishing the facilities
and taking care of the details of print-
ing, mailing and so on. All members of
the Michigan Recreation Association
have been urged to attend.

The rCSponse to what was thought of
as an experiment has been gratifying.
Forty-two people from twenty-one
cities attended the first institute and
twenty-five cities were represented at
the Winter meeting. As one executive
said, “It is good to get away from bas-
ketball and budget worries for a day
or two, and to see our place in the
overall picture of our city's life." The
faculty were happy over the experience,
too, and were stimulated by the liveli-
ness and participation in the discus-
sl(ll]3**~“llliltl\'lllg together," one said.

with an

\Villiam C. Robinson

Another wrote, “I enjoyed the meeting
and hope it may be a step toward
closer relationships between recreation
workers and social workers in Michi-
gan. I appreciate their interest and am
glad to have had the opportunity to
meet with them." On the other hand,
the recreation leaders have been im-
pressed with the interest of those lcad-
ers from other fields, and thc care with
which their material was prepared and
presented.

The object of these sessions is to
improve understanding of fields of ac-
tivity and of study related to but not
directly a part of recreation responsi-
bility. Program material or tcelmiqucs
are not included and the emphasis is
on the recreation administrator as one
of a team of planners for the com-
munity of tomorrow. The institutes
lead to the development of a philoso-
phy of recreation and a thinking
through of its place in the life of the
individual and the community.

 

“Discussion should be one of the
most important things in the world, for
it is almost our only arena of think-
ing . . . Without discussion intellectual
experience is only an exercise in a

private gymnasium.”
mRnnrlolph Ilanrne.

[tsetse/mos

 

IKE ALL COMMUNITIES, Vallejo,

Solano County, California,
prides itself on being unique. Val-
lejo’s basic recreation problems, how-
ever, are compounded of commonplace
ingredients: more people than were
planned for, fewer dollars than are
needed, and political boundaries un-
related to the distribution of popu-
lation. Unique is a c00perative ar-
rangement worked out hetween a pair
of the local bodies politic: Creatcr
Vallejo Recreation District, on the one
hand, and the Housing Authority of
the City of Vallejo on the other.

Both the district and the housing
authority are war-born. The district
was created in 1944 when swelling
population overflowed the city’s bound-
aries and required that for recreation
the township be taken as the unit; the
housing authority was set up in 1942,
to Operate federally-owncd temporary

housing units constructed for war
workers.

V-J Day did not end the need for
either agency, since a large pr0portion
of newcomcrs decided to stay in the
vicinity when peace canIe. Recent ac-

 

KEITH A. MACDONALD is executive di-
rector of the Greater Vallejo Recrea-
tion District, Vallejo, California.

NOVEMBER 1952

-ee7e¢ 3w:

tion in Korea, though it has swelled
the population, reflects itself in acceler-
ated growth rather than a new boom.
Township population has stabilized at
about 75,000, after reaching a war-
time peak (1944) of 88,412, and a
third of this population lives in the
authority’s units. Basic to the unique
cooperative relationship between dis-
trict and authority, therefore, is the
unique fact that the authority is sole
landlord for a third of the district’s
population. Also unique is the fact that
this landlord has provided recreation
facilities for his tenants.

Facilities located 011 each project,
consist of one or more central recrca-
tion buildings, variously equipped
with gyms, stages, meeting-rooms and
kitchens; and outdoor play areas with
equipment. Each community center is
supervised by an activities director
who is an employee of the housing
authority. ‘

But—and here’s the point—although
the activities director is a housing
authority employee, primarily on hand
to insure proper utilization of authori-
ty facilities, the director also is func-
tionally responsible to the district.

III addition to many less formal con-
tacts between all concerned, semi-an-
nual conferences are regularly sched-

Keith A. Macdonald

uled between district personnel and
housing people. On hand for the dis-
trict are the executive director, the
supervisor of community centers, and
other supervisors. The authority is
represented by its director of managc-
ment, and the housing managers and
activities directors of each project. At
cach such conference, past perform-
ance is reviewed, needs analyzed, and
programs formulated.

To implement the joint district-
authority recreation program thus de-
veloped, the district maintains in each
connnunity center, under the supervi-
sion of the activities directors, recrea-
tion leaders who supply the face-to-
face recreation leadership.

The activities director, though fur-
nishing no direct leadership, is the key
man, since through him the authority’s
facilities are tied in to the overall
community program. He also repre-.
sents the housing authority in dealing
with tenants on recreation matters,
and in the process deve10ps volunteer
leadership and privately-raised funds
to supplement the district’s limited
budget.

A mechanism to this end is a tenant
council on each project. Every coun-
cil is a representative, democratically-
elected group with a constitution and

351

bylaws, composed of tenants who as
individuals. or through organizations,
use the community buildings.

For the tenants concerned. partici-
pation in council aetivitics is in itself
a form of recreation. For the program
as a whole, eaeh council is a sounding
board for public Opinion. lu addition,
each council cooperates with the activi-
ties director in scheduling the use of
facilities. The council represents the
public; the activities director, who
links district and authority, thus links
them both to the people each is trying
to serve.

The recreation service, provided by
district-paid leaders. follows standard
professional practices. The activities
direetor's relation to the program is
the unique element in the Vallejo pic-
ture.

Through its sUpervisor of communi-
ty centers, the Greater Vallejo Recrea-
tion District entrusts SUpervision of
certain recreation leaders, regular
members of its own organization, to
activities directors who are part of an
entirely separate, distinct and co-equal
body politic. This is definitely novcl.

On the face of things it would ap-
pear that the aetivitics director is com-
pelled to serve two masters. Vallcjoans
say, however. that only one master is
recognizetlthhe general public.

For six years the llousing Authority
of the City of Vallejo has thus cooper-
ated with the Greater Vallejo Recrea-
tion Distriet in the development and
administration of a badly needed rce-
reation program. And this wholeheart-
ed cooperation between “rival” bodies
politic is the feature of Vallcjo’s recre-
ation program, which is most truly

unique.

FLASH!

Watch for reports and

pictures from the

NATION Al RECREATION CONGRESS

In

Pee/wanton
December 1952 Inn

352

 

 

Students are Missed

Thc Chieopec (Massachusetts) Com-
munity Centcr reports that the month
of May saw the termination of their
body building, rhythm band, boxing
and square dancing groups because
Springfield College students, who served
as instructors, departed on vacation.

The following information was de-
velopcd for the center, through a sur-
vey conducted by two of the students:

Community center visited, evenings
a week—3.71; community center chief
place for recreation—92 per cent; fa-
voritc activities (not including com-
munity center) in order of choice-—
othcr, high or junior high school ac-
tivities, movie theatres, bowling alleys,
staying at home: activities most en-
joyed at center, in order of choice-—
ping pong, dancing, pool; ncw activi-
ties most desired at center, in order
of choice—swimming, gymnasium for
indoor sports, more dancincr.

Progress in Canada

A one-year diploma course in public
recreation for recreation directors was
opened in September at the Univer-
sity of British Columbia by the Na-
tional Council on Physical ritncss.
Limited to thirty students, the course
is directed by Mr. Barry Lowcs, M.A.,
and Mr. Robert Osborne, under the
administrative authority of the univer-
sity’s department of extension. This is
the second such project that has been
undertaken in Canada, and since four
provinces provide some type of pro-
vincial ecrtihcation, it may well be
that the current course will go a long
way toward building support for na-
tional ccrtication and national stand-
ards in the Dominion.

Outdoor Education Notes

At Southern Illinois University, last
March. more than fifty leaders of
education. conservation and recreation
assembled in an outdoor education
conference. sponsored by the univcr-

I'M—r 0a 

sity and the Educational Council of
One Hundred, to investigate the pos-
sibilities for extending outdoor educa-
tion in southern Illinois.

And the Antioch College campus
was the scene, last May, for a six-day,
three-conference, similar study. Ohio
youth leaders, naturalists and conscr-
vationists met to consider school camp-
ing in Ohio, and were joined by other
outdoor experts for Antioch’s fourth
annual conference on outdoor educa-
tion. The final two days were devoted
to the supervision of an overnight
camping outing of a group of sixth-
grade students.

The State Teachers College, Cort-
land, New York offered, last August,
a course entitled “Outdoor Education
in the School l’rogram," at Camp
Huntington on Raqucttc Lake. Among
the subjects covered were nature rccre-
ation, exploring water ways by canoe.
rod and reel, nature and survival. out-
door cooking and social and psycho-
logical study.

A Family Affair

From Indiana University comes word

that the Leiliehs—lloy and Avis——

 

have completed work for their doctors'
(legrccs. he in recreation and she in
physical education. Dr. Roy, who has
been superintendent of recreation at
llcllville, lllinois. is now directing the
recreation program at the University
of Florida. Dr. Avis, who has served
on the stall of McKcudre College in
St. Louis. Missouri. does not cXpect to
teach this year.

ltccncxrmx

People in Recreation

ln Wilson, North Caro-

lina, our thoughts run
parallel with those of
other departments that
are fortunate enough to
have a good, efficient man
in charge of their recreation and park maintenance work.
We honestly believe, as do others, I’m sure, that we have
the “best maintenance man in the business.”

Three years ago Earl J. McFarlane, our maintenance
foreman, and I came from Portsmouth, Virginia, where we
had workcd together in the recreation department of that
city. We feel that these have been three fine years during
which we have sccn unused Wilson arcas and little-used
apparatus built up and even become crowded with hun-

 

Earl J. MeFarlane

 

AUTHOR is recreation director in Wilson, North Carolina.

Improving the field with a dirt Sifter made by the local recreation department.

 

NOVEMBER 1952

Showing how a resourceful maintenance
man can strengthen a recreation department.

My Maintenance Man

Thomas C. Miller

dreds of participants. It has given us a feeling of warmth
to observe our community changing its skeptical “Recre-
ation? What’s that?” to the attitude of today in which
this city, its citizens, civic clubs, schools and churches are
behind our program wholeheartedly.

Mac is married now, has a little daughter, and owns his
own home, much of which he built himself. He will move
on up the ladder in his work, but we are going to endeavor
to hold on to him as long as we can.

He has had a firm foundation for much of his present
work. Born and reared in Nebraska, his experience around
the family farm is now paying off in many ways. His
knowledge of motors, tractors, mowers, seeding, thinning,
fencing and dozens of other phases of farm work con-
tribute much to his present capability in dealing with
problems.

After finishing high school, where he starred in three
sports, Mac moved to California and a
five-year term as a mill foreman in a
furniture factory. Hcre he gained valu-
:‘I able carpentry experience which in turn
is aiding our department today.

He was among the first to he called
at the beginning of World War II. He
served four years in the United States
Army. much of it in Europe, until the
armistice. During his tenure of scrviec,
he was a physical instructor in charge
of all athletics for his regiment. Now,
we often call upon him to aid in super-
vising some of our athletic programs
when we find ourselves short of leader-
ership.

When one looks at our facilities to-
day, it is dillieult to realize that three
years ago they were so out of repair and
so unused. The parks have always bcen

353

beautiful, but an occasional mowing was practically all the
maintenance they had received. Our first step here was to
build a shop at the municipal stadium. We bought tools,
gradually acquired needed machinery, hired a few compe-
tcut laborers and began at once to get our facilities in
good condition. After a month’s start along this line, in
December 19-13 we wcnt to work on the little-uscd Armory.
We still use it for our indoor programs. Mac had much
rewiring done, made his own backboards, light reflectors,
cleaned up the entire building and laid out a basketball
court and a boxing and workout area. We had our first
programs well undcr way within two weeks.

Wilson has a fine baseball stadium and it is said to be
one of the best in this section of the South. Nevcrtheless,
it needed a thorough renovation. The seats and bleachers
were devoid of paint and many needed to be repaired or
entirely replaced. The maintenance crew, which had now
grown to a group of six men, including Mae, finished this
work along with painting the outfield fence and the laying
of a concrete curbing around the whole park fence at the
bottom, whcre children continually pried up the metal
fencing in order to crawl beneath it. Another two years
of this would have necessitated a complete new fence. The
concrete curbing was the answer, and we have had no
trouble sinee that time.

Mac was able to purchase a small cement mixer, and
using a motor which he had salvaged, we are able to do
all of our own ceInent work. A few of the things that we
have made ourselves are: concrete combination ping-pong
and picnic tables, cement park benches and ecment benches
at the swimming pool, bath houses and the three junior
pools. Also constructed were a new park foot-bridge of
eemeut and iron, an outdoor (lauec area at one of our
parks, conercte equipment shelters, eight new fireplaces
of brick with concrete bases. Mac and his crew constructed
a dirt sifter which also was powered by this old motor.
We use this sifter mainly on our stadiuin diamond, and
it saves us an average of three days out of seven in labor.
This sifter, which cost twenty dollars, is so constructed
that the clods of dirt roll off the screen into a trailer and
are hauled away, therefore requiring only one handling
of the dirt. A lawn mower was constructed by Mac’s right-
hand man, llerbcrt Braswell, also a fine mechanic, who is
able to carry on one job while Mae is busy elsewlicre.

We have been fortunate in being able to obtain used
pipe and old boilcr tubes from the city-owned utilities dc-
partuient, and with these we construct all of our own
baseball and softball backstOps, basketball and volleyball
posts and all of the fence posts encircling the three junior
pools. These are put down in cement and are permanent
fixtures. The baekst0ps for basketball are cut down to four
by three feet. This is done to combat wind resistance,
which will often turn the backboard on the posts if it is
strapped and bolted only.

The park areas are kept in fine eomlition by the main-
tenance unit, and the mowers and equipment are given
excellent care. New athletic fil‘ltls and playgrounds lune
been added to this crew's work within the last three years.
New lands have been cleared and graded in sexeral sections

351»

of the city, and at present property for a proposed day
camp is being cleared and improved so that this project
may get under way for the first time this summer.

Any story about Earl .l. McFarlane should include a
few words about his efficient way of handling his mcn.
his willingness to do things personally and to spend much
of his own time, not only for the people of Wilson. but
for the county and even for the other cities throughout
the state. Mac has confided to me several times that his
laborers often give him good ideas that can be used in
their work. lle makes his men feel that they are wanted.
encourages them to express their ideas, and often uses their
suggestions. He has never been selfish with his own ideas
and time, and hardly a week passes that he is not called
upon by some other department, school or club for as- -
sistance.

Mac also has said that every eflicieut maintenance crew
should have one mechanically minded, trustworthy man
to stay on the job at times when the foreman has to leave
to purchase materials, attend staff meetings, line up future
work for the crew, or do any of the things that must take
him away from his men. With a good man, such as he has
in Braswcll, the work does not lag.

 

70 I4ch 7mm -
6:: Alma”

The importance of providing recreation Opportunities
and other attraetive community facilities, as a means of
bringing new industry to a community, is clearly illus-
trated in a story appearing in The Tennessee Planner. A
manufacturer seeking a site for a new plant investigated
conditions in Union City, which ranked first on its list
in the choice of operational sites. The town, however, lost
out as the location for the new plant. The company officials
reported, as one of the chief reasons, the fact that they
couldn’t see how the community could furnish the neces-
sary schools, recreational facilities and other city services
for its employees.

“The company’s concern over recreational facilities was
very important. Officials pointed out that there was no
swinnniug pool in Union City at the time they inspected
the town. They also said that the city lacked recreational
facilities such as a municipal golf course and adequate
park. . . . From their point of view, all that the city of-
fered in the way of recreation was a picture show and a
pool room.”

Chagrined and disappointh ovcr their loss, the citizens
have undertaken to eorrect the town’s imperfections.
Among the aetious which have been taken, are the build-
ing of a modern, fully-equipped swimming pool and five
playgrounds which were Operated under leadership dur-
ing the summer months. Bonds for a new high school
have been voted and a new hospital has been completed.
The city planning commission has been reorganized.

The experience in Union City demonstrates that in order
to attract industry, a city first must bc attractive.

RECREATION

BASEBALL
M 30%»

REGARD to our summer baseball
program for boys eight to twelve

IN

years old, for some years we op-
erated a softball league for this age
group but it was never successful.

With the growth of Little League base-

      

.- r’ tut

___. can—n... | u’

Ronnie Merrill plays with aid of runner.

ball in our city, we decided that boys
who didn’t make a Little League tcam
or who have never played baseball,
should have a chance to play.

With this thought in mind, we
contacted the Harold T. Andrews Post
of thc American Legion and they ap-
pr0priated two hundrcd and fifty dol-
lars for T-Shirts and othcr equipment
for our teams. This meant that every
boy betwecn eight and twelve years of
age who wanted to play baseball would
have that opportunity.

Thc whole activity hinged on the
playfield directors, all men, being
available at the ballfields in four sec-
tions of the city to run informal
leagues for their boys. Though only

JACK CHAIN is director, Parks and Rec-
reation Department, Portland, Maine.

NOVEMBER 1952

Report of the Congress Meeting on Mid-

get Athletics will be published in the
December issue of RECREATION.

 

76m!“ 7we€ae

John H. Crain, Jr.

one playfield director was included in
the budget, by placing three male
playground leaders in key areas, we
were able to run three leagues com-
posed of five, five and four teams in
three widely separated city areas.
Our recreation supervisor, William
T. Kiley, asked a group of well in-
formed citizens to participate on an
advisory committee for this activity.
Members included: Victor Taylor, ex-
ecutive director of the Jewish Com-
munity Center; John Malcolm, execu-
tive director of the YMCA; Edgar
Hagen, exccutivc director of the Boys
Club; Colonel William Dowes Veazic,
Commander of the Harold T. Andrews
Post; Mr. Kiley and Dr. Frank S.

Broggie, psychiatric medical man.
Some pertincnt points decided were:

1. That all boys on a team rostcr
play at least one half of each game.
(Six inning game.)

2. That rostcrs include no more than
fifteen boys.

3. That all gamcs be played in the
morning. (Little League plays at night.)

4. That we use softball fields or
fields.with sixty-foot basclines. (Simi-
lar to Littlc Lcague.)

5. That boys of similar skill be al-
lotted proportionately to each team
in a league; and that rosters be ad-
justcd during season play to assure
equally matched teams.

6. That thcre be no inter-league
championship gamcs.

7. That we use Little League style
bats and batting headgcar.

8. That we use regular baseballs;
and if they prove too lively, that we
switch to Little League style baseballs.
(We found the regular baseball to be
perfectly safe.)

9. That the physically handicapped
boys be encouraged to play, or at least
participate as scorers, coaches or in
any capacity.

10. That all boys who participate
in the activity, be awarded a certificate
of achievement in the activity regard-
less of skill attained.

11. That each league attract bOys
only from nearby elementary schools.

The city was divided by Mr. Kiley
into school districts. All of the com-
mittee pr0posals have been followed
and the activity has been a success.

Some comments of the playfield di-
rectors on the activity are:

“Enthusiasm is high regardless of
the score.”

“The boys learn fair play without
being taught.”

“Parents turn out, and many adults
have watched games.”

“They enjoyed playing baseball as
much as boys who play in Little
League.”

“They are learning respcct for ad-
ults, areas and other activitics as well
as for each other.”

“Here is a placc'for the little fel-
low.” (We have a three-foot-high first
baseman on one team.)

“Knowledge that playfield director
is there assures them that older boys
won’t take the diamond from them.”
(A very important point.)

We have been very fortunate in this
program, only because we have good
leadership. This points up the value
of leadership in all recreation pro-
grams; and the picture is particularly
interesting because there are twelvc
teams in three Little Leagues in Port-
land. Also, we have a league of thir-
teen, fourteen and fiftcen-year-old boys
as well as a league of seventeen and
cighteen-year-old boys, and our Adult
Twilight League. We feel that Little
League has stimulated baseball in our

"city and challenged 11s to do a better

job in all our activities.

355

Personnel in Recreation

 

 

This presentation by Dr. Douglass.
which introduces the lt‘Ot‘h‘ of the Na-
tional Advisory Committee on I’er-
sonncf of the NRA, It‘le be followed in
future issues by reports from its car-
ious subcommittees.

 

 

‘ costeaattmswe PROGRAM for the study of the re-
1' eruitmcnt, training attd placement of recreation per-

sonnel has been initiated by the National Recreation As-
sociation. The study is being carried forward by the Na-
tional Advisory Committee with W. C. Sutherland acting
as the secretary for the coordination of the work and de-
tail at the New York office. Seventy-five specialists and
educators are serving on five subcommittees which have
organized the areas of inquiry and delegated responsibility
for the work. The Advisory Committee seeks, through
shared experience and continuing collaboration at all levels
of recreational activity and education, to develop policies,
standards and procedures which will provide personnel
outlooks for a maturing and dynamic profession. To the
extent that tlte committee is successful, piecemeal cou-
sidcratiou of personnel problems will have come to an end.
When one realich that recreation now reqttires 20,000
full-time leaders, over 50,000 part time and seasonal as-
sistants, and over 100,000 volunteers, one can understand
that the field has become “big business" and requires a
personnel program equal to the position which recreation
now occupies.

\'itlt the organizaton of tlte Advisory Committee during
the spring and summer, the meetings at tltc 3-ltlt National
lim:reation Congress in Seattle gave opportunity for thor-
ouglt discussion and further planning. The subcommittees
develop their own programs of inquiry and designate task
forces to study various areas witltin their particular fields.
The first subcommittee, headed by Verna lieusvold. sn-
perintendent of recreation itt Kansas City, Missouri. deals
with recruitment, with the process of information by whielt
young men and women make decisions to select recrea-
lion as a career. The points at which this decision is ntade
must be determined by the cooperation of the profession
and cdtteators: and young persons wlto ltavc made deci-
sion- in secondary school. college or otherwise must be
assimilated into the recreation ntmetncnt to strength-

3156

Paul F. Douglass

en their purpose attd guide their
professional preparation. Attention
must be given to aptitudcs as well
as interest, because selection at the
source “ill count for much in years
to come.

The second subconuuittce. headed
by Professor Charles K. lirightbill,
director of recreation training iii
the University of Illinois, deals with
undergraduate education. Here the concern is with cur-
rieulunt and laboratory field work, with the balance be-
tween general and specialized education, with the coop-
eration between educational institutions and agencies. with
the academic foundations of the profession and with the
practical experience so important in the screening of pros-
pects and the seasoning of young men and women with
genuine aptitudcs. The profession has a heavy responsi-
bility for cooperation with colleges and universities, and
has tltc right on its part to insist that standard recreation
curriculums be offered. The profession has the obligation
to recommend institutions with strong offerings to recrea-
tion candidates.

Tlte third subcommittee, headed by Professor Gerald B.
liitzgcrald, director of recreation training iii the Uni-
\ersity of Minnesota, deals with graduate education. Col-
laborating with the subconuuittec ou undergraduate eduea-
tion itt terms of studies prerequisite to graduate study, this
task force has the responsibilities related to professional
specialization.

The fourth subcommittee, headed by Professor Garrett
C. Eppley of tltc department of recreation ill the School
of Health. Physical Education and Recreation in Indiana
University. deals with in-serviee training. llcrc is the area
of continuing adult study, the point at which minds and
methods are kept alive by constant upgrading.

The fifth subcommittee, ltcadcd by liusscl lioval, di-
rector of recreation itt Decatur, Illinois. deals with place-
ment.

 

liront this brief orientation to the work of the Advisory
Committee one can see that its work deals with the whole
flow of personnel Operations-from the attraction of young
men and women with genuine aptitudcs. to their placement

 

3hr. l)ttt.‘ct..\ss. chairman o/ the National Advisory Com-
mittee, is serving as adviser to the President of the Korean
Republic and as counsel to the .ilinistry of Foreign zMairs.

RECREATION

in jobs and a continuing 'concern for their advancement
throughout their careers. What the committee hopes to
achieve is the establishment of goals and incentives with
reliable standards and satisfying conditions of work. It
looks forward to the recruitment of workers who believe
in recreation as a part of life, who have faith in their
own aptitudes to contribute to the work, who prepare by
competent education and courage to implement their faith
for significant performance, who understand the behavior
of the human being in the context of the problems of con-
temporary civilization, and who seek by insight into liv-
ing to increase the happiness of mankind.

Considered as a continuum from recruitment to placc-
ment and the continuing responsibility for advancement
of career people, the program of the Advisory Committee
seeks to work out a personnel design which will discover
the young peOple who ought to enter recreation as a life
work, which will encourage proper educational prepara-
tion, which will guide graduates into appropriate jobs,
and which will exercise a continuing concern for the ad-
vancement of people within the field. The Advisory Com-
mittee is thus concerned with the fundamental conditions
of service, with what W. C. Sutherland refers to as the
“undergirdings of ‘inspired leadership.” Because recrea-
tion means working with people to increase their enjoy-
1nent‘of.living, recreation personnel must be thcmsclvcs
permanently satisfied with their profession.

lnspired leadership comes from inspired leaders. In-
spiration means the awakening of the creative impulse; it
is an inner something breathed into a person from the
outside. In setting up the Advisory Committee, the National
Recreation Association has assumed a share of the re-
sponsibility for setting the breezes in motion which com»
municate this conviction. By strengthening professional
assurance it prOposes to kindle a spark in youth which
will encourage young men and women to make decisions to
enter the work, which will stimulate educational institu-
tions to fan that spark into a deep conviction of compe-
tent preparation, and which will develOp a professional
camaraderie adequate to maintain a matured enthusiasm
throughout the lifetime of usefulness. Because the rewards
of recreation are always an inward human satisfaction, the
dcvelOpment of career recreationalists who themselves are
competent and happy in their life work is the first condi-
tion of service.

111 our modern world of cheap power, specialized appara-
tus, and organizational eHiciency, science and technology
give human beings increasing leisure. The distribution of
power and apparatus capable of giving each family in
our world four hundred slaves necessitates a reconstruction
in the attitudes of living. lndustrialization has brought
with it the problems of economic instahility, of booms
and husts and panaceas like state socialism and commu-
nism. Atomic energy ushers in the threat of Gotterdam-
merung at the same time that it proposes hope for further
release from disease and scarcity.

In a world of political fear, economic anxiety, military
organization, and ideological confusion, the rccreation-
alist stands today as the symbol of the opportunity to cn-

NOVEMBER 1952

joy time without compulsion. He exists as the spokesman
for the use of leisure earned by work, in disinterested ac-
tivity freed from the activities centering around the mak-
ing of a living, the worries precipitated by personal anxie-
ties, or uncertainties created by the social and international
scene. When time stands at the disposal of the complete
man, a human being can engage in disinterested activity
which lifts him out of and above the disfigured patterns
of life at the moment. Communists ‘and free enterprisch
do not go fishing as mobile units of ideologies; they go
fishing as men. When all the baggage of living is tossed
aside, a man moves as a human being. He has the ex-
perience of being a man in his own right—facing other
men in their own right as men—~facing nature of which
he is a part. At this point the human self emerges; a con-
tented man lengthens into the full image of the God who
created him. Uncramped by the I’rocrustean squeeze of
the workaday world, a human being can say with Walt
Whitman:

Let the paper remain on the desk unwritten, and the
book on the shelf unOpen’d!

Let the tools remain in the workshop! let the money
remain unearn’d! . . . .

Let the preacher preach in his pulpit! let the lawyer
plead in the court, and the judge expound the law.

Camerado, I give you my hand!1 . . . .

I inhale great draughts of space,

The east and the west are. mine, and the north and the
south are mine.

I am larger, better than I thought,
I did not know I held so much goodness.I . . . .

You whoever you are! . . . .
You Roman! Neapolitan! you Greek!
You women of the earth subordinated at your tasks! . . . .

And you of eenturies hence when you listen to me! . . . .
Health to you! good will to you all2 . . . .

In the holy moment when a human being enjoys time in
disinterested freedom, time itself for such person ceases
to exist; the fullness of the inward person encompasses the
fullness of creation and the realization that “the earth is
full of the goodness of the Lord.”

The car'eerist who undertakes as a profession to deal
with this holy moment in the spiritual experience when a
free man enjoys free time in the personal freedom of
choice assumes an obligation toward people which is dif-
ferent from all the other professional responsibilities in
the catalog. Here in this holy moment a person touches
a person. The situation is not that of a physician admini-
stering a drug; or a surgeon cutting away a malignant
growth; or a clergyman discussing God’s grace as an
antidote for sin; or a teacher giving instruction; or a
merchant selling entertainment. The experience of the
holy moment comes because a man experiences an inward
satisfaction in the full freedom of his own choice, action
and expression. To participate in this moment is the
privilege of the professional recreationalist, for toward this
personal satisfaction of another he communciates an un-
obtrusive inspiration, and this is what Sutherland means

1 Lines from “Song of the Open Road.”
5ELines from “Salut au Monde!"

357

when he speaks on the 20th floor of 315 Fourth Avenue
above the sidewalks of Manhattan about “inspired leader-
ship.”

thn a man returns from leisure to the routine grooves
of the everyday world with its patterns of conflict, compe-
tition. and anxiety, he has at least had an elevating ex-
perience which places problems in the perspective of the
genuine values of life. The responsibility of the carecrist
is to arrange the conditions which allow a man to enjoy
a creative experience. This is the purpose of recreation;
and this is why budgets, and administrative problems, and
parks, and equipment are never ends but mcans—-—mcans
to provide the opportunity for men to experience the holy

moment.

Set in this perspective, the goals of the National Ad-
visory Committee on Recruitment, Training and Placement
of Iiccrcation Personnel of the National llcercation Asso-
eiation become the goals of civilized mcu. Thcir fulfill-
ment requires the continued hcst thinking and sharing
of experience which a cross-section of the recreation move-
ment can provide. It requires the team work of those who
dedicate their lives to rcercation, thosc who instruct the
ncophytc, those who administer the vast resources of the
field. The purpose of the committcc is to stimulate thought
by the exchange of experience for the definition of policies
and programs which can insure a sullicicut supply of
workers equipped to make recreation the kind of inner
experience which our unscttlcd age so much rcquircs.

“'lull (Seoul Is "no Vole?

What good will ONE VOTE do?
Well, ONE VOTE had a lot to do with a lot of things in

this country! Thomas Jefferson was elected President by
ONE VOTE in the electoral college. So was John Quincy

Adams.

Rutherford B. Hayes was elected President by ONE
VOTE. llis election was contested, and it was referred to
an electoral college. Again he won by ONE VOTE.

The man who cast that deciding vote for President
Hayes was a Congressman from Indiana, a lawyer who was
elected to Congress by a margin of just ONE VOTE; and
that ONE VOTE was cast by a client of his, who, though
desperately ill, insisted upon being taken to the polls.

By just ONE VOTE there came into the nation the
states of California, Idaho, Oregon, Texas and \Vashing-
ton. That’s a big chunk of territory and today all the

The Church and Recreation

A discussion and action guide “to
help a local church group appraise its
community life and activity in relation
to its recreation,” is now available.
Entitled Our Community and Its Rec-
reation, it is one of a serics——Tllt:
Cnuacn LEARNING Aaour [Ts COM-
MUMTYupublishcd by the Department
of Social Welfare, United Christiau
Missionary Society, 222 South Dowuey
Avenue, Indianapolis 7. Content of two
of the suggested study sessions is
based, in part, upon sclcctious front
two articles in llncmzxnox magazine
HArthur Katona’s “Let’s llavc Work-
shops for Fellowship,” in thc Novem-
ber 1931 issue and "A New World,” in
the October 19 W issue.

358

P. 0. BOX 409

millions living in those states are Americans by just ONE
VOTE.

Now, you may say that the ONE VOTE situation applies
to the past. Well, don’t forget that the draft act of World
War I] passed the House by just ONE VOTE. You can
carry this ONE VOTE history on and on.

For example, ONE MORE ADDITIONAL VOTE in
each of Akron’s 270 precincts at the 1951 fall election
would have passed the less than one-half cent a day Rccre-
atiou Lovy which failed to secure a majority by only 215
out of 65,000 ballots cast.

Iiemcmbcr, YOUR VOTE may be the ONE VOTE which
will give 50,000 Akron children safe places to play.

Join the crusade for Recreation.

Issued by Recreation Department, Akron, Ohio, August 1952.

 

Here’s an offer you
will want to accept

To let you become well acquainted with the Nation's leading maga-
zines in maintenance for the park and recreation industry, we will
send you the next six issues for only one dollar. (Regular price is

$3.00 per year.)

Start now so you will receive the Buyers' Guide
Directory of over 500 suppliers in our October
issue.

PARK MAINTENANCE

APPLETON, WISCONSIN

 

It acnnxnox

HEN PROPERLY ORGANIZED and

conducted, sports are one of the
best forms of recreation for girls of
all ages. All programs, however, should
be based upon the recognition of in-
dividual differences and to the state of
maturity of the participants, and the
ultimate aim should be the good of
those who participate. (Rather than
the interests of possible spectators or
sponsors.) \Vhether it is through an
individual type of sport or a highly
organized team game, the program
should provide an opportunity for
every girl who desires to play——not
for only those who are most skilled.

The sports director, therefore, has the
responsibility for encouraging many
girls to develop skills and interests in
whatever games appeal to them most.
The important values which come from
good physical activity must not be lim-
ited to a few star performers.

Some girls cannot play strenuous
games because of some physical dis-
ability but they can be part of the
group and get the eXperienee of to-
getherness by being used as timers,
scorers, oflieials, or committee mem-
bers to promote the program. They
can also be served by helping them
to select the type of game which is
within their range of ability.

All recreation leaders, professional
or volunteer, should familiarize them-
selves with the wealth of material
available from the National Section
on Women’s Athletics of the Ameri-
can Association for Health, Physical
Education and Recreation—a depart-
ment of the National Education As-
sociation.

This nonprofit educational organiza-
tion is made up of leaders in physical
education and recreation who serve in
schools, colleges, industrial plants, mil-
itary services, and public and private
clubs and agencies. The purpose of
the organization is to promote sound
and diversified athletic programs een-
tercd on the interests and welfare of
participants.

MISS DAUNCEY, Katherine F. Barker
Memorial Field Secretary for Women
and Girls, is NRA training specialist.

NOVEMBER 1952

Aids for Your
Sports Program for Girls

It serves the interests and needs of
the leaders of athletics for girls and
women by setting standards for lead-
ership, health, desirable practices and
publicity. It provides materials and
information for leaders, players and
officials.

The sports guides, special publica-
tions, and score books published by
the NSWA are indispensable tools
of leadership for sports and recreation
activities organized under acceptable
standards for girls and women. The
NS\VA rules have been designated as
ofhcial for women by schools, colleges,
industrial and recreation organizations.
The rules have been developed by
women for girls, and leaders all over
the country have participated in
changes, tried them out, accepted them
and then have been willing to change
them if improvement is still needed.

The Sports Library for Women in-
cludes the following guides:

Official Aquatics, Winter Sports and Outing
Activities Guide

Official Basketball Guide

Official Field Hockey—Lacrosse Guide

Official Individual Sports Guides: Archery,
Bowling, Fencing, Golf, Riding

Ofl(i}cia(} Recreational Games—Volley Ball

[1! e

Official Softball—Track and Field Guide
Official Soccer—Spccdball Guide
Official Tennis—Badminton Guide

Score books for basketball, badminton, vol-
leyball, field hockey

The price of these guides and score
books is fifty cents each, and they
may be ordered from: National See-
tion on Women’s Athletics, 1201 Six-
teenth Street, N.W., Washington 6,
D.C. Each sports guide contains offi-
cial playing rules, articles on tech-
niques, teaching and organization;
bibliographies; and special features
slanted to the Sport or sports it covers.
The guides also list, by states, the
members of the Board of OHieials
who'rate officials in basketball, soft-

Helen Dauncey

ball, volleyball, swimming and tennis,
and who conduct examinations for
these ratings.

This information should be of great
help to reereation executives who wish
to procure eompetent officiating in
sports and who wish to encourage
their staff members to get their of-
fieial ratings. State and city represen-
tatives' of the NSWA (also listed in
the guides) are organized for educa-
tional and informational work—sueh
as the conducting of sports elinics.
Anyone wishing information or help
on a problem within the state is urged
to communicate with the state repre-
sentative.

Although the controversy of boys’
versus girlsa rules in basketball has
pretty much died down, there are still
some benighted communities who think
that imitating the men’s style of play
is needed to hold the interest of the
girls. In most cases the truth is that
the game is being played primarily for
spectators who have no interest in the
well-being of team members but simply
demand a “good show.”

Sometimes the sports director is
asked to defend his stand that girls’
rules should be used in basketball. He
needs the backing of some recognized
authority in the field of women’s sport
--—where the findings are based on ex-
perimentation and research. In the 0f-
cial Basketball Guide for 1948-49, pub-
lished by NSWA, there is a research
article by Miriam Gray on “Why Play
Girls9 Rules in Basketball?” This gives
both physiological and psychological
reasons. Qualitative programs in ree-
reation depend upon such factors as
adhering to recognized standards. De-
partments of recreation have a re-
sponsibility to give girls and women
the kind of sport programs which are
the result of the thinking and plan-
ning of our t0p leaders in the field.

359

The community of Homer, New York, is fortunate in benefiting from the
services of a large group of students preparing for recreation leadership under
the guidance of a competent teacher with long experience in the field of recre-
atiou. Most communities of this size must employ at least one part-time leader

to snpplenient the services rendered by volunteers.

RECREATION FOR ADULTS, play for
children—it's all the same, under
one program that the recreation com-
mission of llomer, New York, is pro-
viding for its community—and the
program deals with all phases of rec-
reation from basketball to tiddly-
winks.

Amazing as it may sound, all un-
paid volunteer workers for this com-
mission are college students majoring
in recreation education at the State
University Teachers College at Cort-
land, New York. Operation of the
commission's program is unique in
that it is Completely conducted hy this
grOUp of students.

The professional training of recrea-
tion leaders has long been recognized
as best accomplished by actual field
experience, and the functions of the
commission provide a practical work-
shop in community recreation. The or-
ganization and administration of an
over-all recreation program enables
them to gain espcrience ill the diller-
ent facets of community recreation,
including budgeting and accounting,
maintenance, construction, personnel
recruitment, programming, public re-
latious and group leadership. In order
to insure smooth operation of the com-
mission a stall organization has been
set Up to handle these details.

 

AUTHOR wrote this article at the sug-
gestion 0/ Dr. Harlan C. .l-letealf,
ehairman o/ the recreation department
a] State Teaehers College, Cortland.
New York, where he is a student.

360

Recreation Workshop

A recreation director is in charge
of the program. He is responsible to
the chairman of the commission, which
is composed of respected citizens of
the community. Under the director is
a stall for public relations, sports per-
sonnel, social recreation and a re-
search department. All workers are
volunteer leaders from the student
body in recreation training.

The dillerent departments of the or-
ganization are decentralized to a large
degree to encourage growth, sense of
responsihility, initiative, and at the
same time permit adaptations to im-
mediate changing conditions. This
saves time that is already at a pre-
mium because of the heavy academic
ohligations of the students.

Among the many actvities in the
program is an arts and crafts depart-
ment which ollers soap carving, wood
earving and leather-craft; in the sports
field, there are ice skating, basketball.
volleyball, badminton, a softball league,
a bowling league and outing activities.
Social, square and folk dancing are
favorites in the program and instruc-
tion is given in all. in addition there
are special community celebrations
presented by the commission includ-
ing Halloween, Thanksgiving, Christ-
mas, Valentine's Day and St. Patrick's
Day. A library reading hour functions
for the young children to introduce
them to the fun of reading and its
place in recreation.

The latest additions to the program
are an adult night and a golden age
group program. Adult night provides
recreation for those young adults who

Stanley Silver

wish to engage in sports activities.
The golden agers are over sixty-five
years of age and recreation opportu-
nities, suitable for their years, are
provided.

An All-Homer picnic which the com-
mission sponsored at a nearby state
recreation area was the high-light of
the 1951 program. Approximately three
hundred children and adults attended.

At birth, the recreation commission
started out as a laboratory project
for students in fulfilling their cur-
rieulum requirements. Homer, New
York, which is located thirty miles
south of Syracuse, with a p0pulation
of three thousand, submitted a request
to the college in 1948 to set up some
sort of recreation: program for its
youth. Cortland State Teachers College
at this time was inaugurating a new
four-year curriculum in recreation ed-
ucatiou and the situation seemed ideal
for the students to gain practical ex-
perience in community recreation.

At first the program was limited in
scape and offered only a few activities.
Small as it was, however, its popu-
larity spread and an interest was
shown by both the children and their
parents. The following year saw the
project turn into a recreation organi-
zation which worked in conjunction
with the local central school to pro-
vide recreation for its students. As
the attendance and interest increased,
the program was broadened and the
aid of a larger stall of student volun-
teers was enlisted.

A recreation center was provided
for the eounnissiou's Use in the form

Recnmrios

of an old fire house. The students
“pitched in” and worked three hun-
dred man-hours in fixing, cleaning and
painting the interior of thc building.
Joseph Halper, a recreation major,
was the first student director. His
interest and work for the commission
gradually helped expand the program
from a one-day-a-week operation to its
present six day week. The center is
open from 7:00-10 p.1n. and a staff of
forty provides leadership.

In 1951, three years after the proj-
ect started. the village board recog-
nizcd the recreation commission as a
nccessary town function and funds
were appropriated in the town budget
for the commission’s use. The New
York Statc Youth Commission has
also approved the program and gives
partial financial aid.

Plans for the expansion of the com-
mission’s program include a sports-
man’s club which will provide for
more outing activities. Erection of a
ski-tow for skiing is planned in ad-
dition to a swimming program for all
age groups. A bicycle safety campaign.
run in conjunction with the police

  

Shaws many

belts,

 

bags,

"CAMP S PECIA L" MOCCASI N

Genuine leather with campasi-
tian sales. All sizes far all ages.
Ideal far the beach, in the
woods, alang paths and far
launging.

Per Pair — $3.95
($3.55 in 12 pair lats)

*68-PAGE LEATHERCRAFT SUPPLY CATALOG—ONLY 25c

l‘llustrates all types of moccasins and leather items of in-
terest at summer camps. modeling tools. lucings. instruction
books for handicraft purposes. etc. No experience needed.

CLIP AND MAIL NOW!

I OSBORN BROS. SUPPLY co..
I 223 W. Jackson Blvd., Chlcaga 6, III.

 

NOVEMBER 1952

OSBORN OFFERS YOU . . .
BIG ILLUSTRATED SUPPLY FOLDER

easy-ta-make camp proiects
ready to put together, such as beautiful
purses,
hundreds at other items.

department and the board of educa-

tion, is scheduled. For the fishing en-
thusiasts there is to be a small fry
fishing contest.

The sports program was augmented
with the completion of the new central
school. With the c00peration of the
school board, the commission has ob-
tained the use of its facilities for rec-
reation activities in the evening.

Not only has the Homer Recrea-
tion Commission filled a vital gap for
recreation in the village of Homer,
but it has enabled students, as future
recreation leaders, to gain confidence
and proficiency in recreation skills
and methods.

Dr. Harlan G. Metcalf, head of the
recreation education department at
Cortland Statc, was quick to realize
that such a program would help stu-
dents develop a feeling for initiative,
leadership and responsibility. He has
been instrumental in providing guid-
ance and encouragement for the pro-
gram from its infancy. At the present
time research is being conducted to
determine the needs and interests of
those to be served in the future.

   
  

ciga rette cases and

 
   

bfr'

 

 

I Please rush I: Free Illustrated Supply Folder;
E] Idea-packed (iii-page Leathercraft Supplies |
I Catalog for which I enclose 2 c in coin. I
ll NANIE -..___.._._....._....... _...___.___—_ I 3., us! i6 e1",
 ADDRESS____ _ __._ .. _ __ _ _ _l ‘3‘" if"
I CITY ____...STATE _ I

 

 

\Vrittcu by thruu hut I'u‘tiu'. International
Table Tennis Star. For beginners and ad-
vanced players—complete with pictures. Also
catalog on paddles, tables and gift items.
Sent Free. \Vrite today to SHARON KAY,
Box 493-.\, Glen Ellyn, Ill.

 

CARE Gift Packages
The annual CARE holiday package,

containing a whole canned turkey din-
ner and all the trimmings is again
available for delivery in Austria, Bel-
gium, Finland, France, West Germany
and Berlin, Great Britain (England.
Scotland, \Vales and Northern lre-
land), Greece, Italy, the Netherlands
and Norway. The cost is $18.15.

CARE also offers the turkey alone
at a cost of $12.00 and a tasty budget
food package for $6.95 for recipients
in East Germany and Yugoslavia as
well as the above countries. The turkey
package is also available for Japan,
Okinawa and the Philippines.

Orders may be mailed to CARE, 20
Broad Street, New York 5, New York,

or any local office.

Finest In the World
For the World's

Greatest Athletes

/ e e

aw: Invest NV rat! 33:10!
.DIUIUGUIDIN. ‘.-'.~I a E .I ._ I.

Wm

361

0 "Are You pulling your own weight?"
was the question asked by a member
of the Croton Board of Education.
Like the other members of his board,
the gentleman was questioning the
right of our recreation department to
use the schools.

At the time, 1 had been in the vil-
lage less than three weeks and had
no rebuttal. However, l immediately
made a personal survey and found to
my dismay that this board member
had a legitimate gripe.

At that time two recreation: cen-
ters served the winter recreation pro-
gram. The high school was used two
evenings a week for senior basketball

of summer recreation equipment.
The obvious answer seemed to be
to put enough equipment into the
game room to keep the boys too oc-
cupied for delinquency. Fortunately
funds were available. In the store-
room we found an old dusty mat for
which we purchased a plastic cover.
The storeroom was emptied and made
into our mat room. Some of the boys
eXpressed an interest in body build-
ing, so we bought an inexpensive set
of bar hells, formed a club and had
the nucleus of a good program in our
made-over storeroom. A light punch-
ing bag, boxing gloves, a new ping
pong table and a pair of Rat Bak

 

Are YOU Pulling
YO ur Own 1V0 i ght ?

Mortimer H. \Iorris

 

and Saturday afternoons for movies
in the auditorium. The second center
was in the Municipal Building, where
the library held a Saturday story hour,
and the basement was used once each
week for a game session. The base-
ment was also used two other evenings
by organizations unrelated to the mu-
nicipal program. They were the Home
Bureau, an adult craft unit for women,
and the Concordia Band, another adult
project.

Equipment in the basement for the
game sessions consisted of two ping
pong tables and a battered pool table.
The previous winter, the boys had
been denied use of the room because
of destruction and vandalism in the
building during the evenings when
they were in session. The room itself
was fairly largo-30 feet by 65 feet—-
and adjoining it was a small room-r -
9 feet by 2‘) feet—used for storage

 

MR. Monms is superintendent of recre-
ation of Cromn-on-Hndson, New York.

362

boards were also purchased. The pool
table was re-covcred and new cues and
bridges added. We opened the rooms
two evenings each week and within
a week the boys had improvised a
heavy punching bag and were plan-
ning other improvements.

A terrific psychological effect re-
sultcd from naming the basement the
Recreation Game Rooms. This served
the double purpose of identification
and the implication of ownership. Un-
til this title took hold we were merely
tenants; now the rooms are ours and
recognized throughout the village as
recreation property.

The second year money was more
plentiful and we picked up a new tele-
vision set, a used shufllcboard table,
and table and wall toss games. The
mat was brought into the big room
and the small room was changed to
the TV room. Our schedule was ex-
panded to include two afternoons a
week as well as the two evenings.

it was recognized that the winter
program was no longer a one-man job.

and for the first time we began to get
more use of the schools. The sehedul-
ing of two more recreation activities
made necessary the hiring of teachers,
and other adults who had shown a ca-
pacity and interest in such work, as
part-time leaders.

This is the third year sinee we started
our Recreation Game Rooms. The past
fall the teen-agcrs painted the rooms,
refinished the floors, made curtains for
the windows and are now planning
booths and a coke bar. Special events
arranged from time to time include
dances, tournaments in active and
quiet games, parties and meetings.

The rooms are now used for recrea-
tion five afternoons and three evenings
a week. The sixth afternoon they are
turned over to the Girl Scouts, while
the remaining three nights they are oc-

capicd by the Home Bureau, the Con.
cordia Band and the Boy Scouts. Lack

of money for personnel necessitates
the loaning out of the rooms, but this
is good public relations and a display
of community spirit.

Along with our Recreation Game
Rooms, use of the schools has ex-
panded. The gymnasium is Open for
recreation five nights a week and the
other evening is reserved for high
school varsity competition. We still use
the auditorium and also the elemen-
tary school gymnasium one afternoon
and one evening each week.

Our Saturday program now con-
sists of nine separate activities, and
only three seasons ago we were fortu-
nate to have three. With the possibili-
ties of golden age groups, ladies'l gym
classes and parent education and nurs-
ery school groups we may soon begin
to have activities during the mornings
as well.

in three years we have more than
doubled our activity sessions and what
is more important, we have provided
about two and one half times the vari-
ety of activities. thus better serving
more children in the community. As a
result. public opinion is favorable and
the school authorities are amenable to
almost any plan we might ochr for
our year-round program. The towns-
people are aware of our prescnec, our
importance and our needs.

in brief, we are pulling our own
weight.

RECREATION

Part has

'98

“ Part '

wing“

EEG

 

5.55%“ 5%. «55 M55555

93:5 :5 m555 :55 5555. 55: mm<5 5555 555 :5 555:5 o: 5
:5555. 53:55 555m. >=o£ 55 55:55:55 :55 :55 .8 555:55 55: :55
555 5555 555 mm5m :5: 555m 55. :5 £555 macaw. m5:55n :5 .555
5555 555 555: 555555: :5? 555m 5 :55: :5 M555 :5 5 :52 55me
55: :55 5555 55555555. 0: :5 _Omm5m 5555 5 555% 555. :5 wOmn5m5 35:.

m55mm 25:55 55 555. 55525. 55: 55555.5 5555 55:555 :55 :5
55:35. 55”

5.55 251555. 53:55:

.255 055555 mo5m:
..>~_5% >5. 05:5 mo5m:

25955555 >25mm5:
n$555555. :055355:

>::::o55: :Omi5m: W55; 5555"
55% $55 mug—4% men 052:5:

0:53:55 515% 5%5u 25:55 55 5:: 55555555
55. 555: 5:555. 5:555. 55 :55. 5:555:55 5 5
552% 55. 5255.5. 535 555% 55 55:5: 5% 55
3:55 W556 555: 555555: 5 5555555M5m. 5553555“
55:550 55. 555.“ no 55555 :5 0:55 50553.55.

Paw—w 5.55555 5.53%

> 22555 555555.: 555.55. H555 m55mn 515mm 555 55:55 25:55
55 :555 555 555"“ 55 2555 5555555 5.55 51m? :55 5 5555. .555
52555 55 55:95: 5:. 5 :5 55:55" 55:55. 55: :5 555555 55
555: 5 5555555 Gym—w, 55555555.

55: U5mmm5m 553%IQS. 9::

05555 515m 5555155 A5555. 5:5 5.: :555. 155555 55: mo 58:;
£555 55 555: 5 5555 552 5535 555. :55 55:55mm5m 5 5555 55555
@555 55. 5m555% :55 5555: 55::55.

E5255. 5.53%

M55 :5505 515mm 5 555525555 5555:
no 55 :5555: 5 5555 5:55. mnocw 55. :5.
5:55:55. 05555 2:5 555 55: :555m5m
5 553:5: 5:55 555% 55 555: :55. 551%
55:55:55 :55 555.5%55.

 

5.555. 553%

:05255555 5555 555:5 5535:5555 55: 555 £555 55 5:5: 2:5
:5 55:55 55: 555 25:55 :5% 515m... 55 5:555:55 no :5 553%. .55
5555155: 555 55 W555 5 55:25:55 :05 55::5% :5555.

(Fold Back)

—___——————_____——__———————_h——————————————_———————_——————————-

0

 

5553.55 man. 5.:-

           
             

an-um4.m..m3 3...!!me

.5 mm 555 55555: no mm<5 . . . 3 55: 55:55
£555 555 55 :55 552555 :5 55:55:5m 55.
55:55:55 5.: 52555 5 55 £55 5 :555 555
55.5 555 315555. 5 £555: mnocwm 55 5 55:-
5:55 555 55:55:55 5 :52 5555 0: 55:55:55
2:5 :5 5% o: mmi5m 55: 5:5mm5m 5525555
no 5:55. wnom5~55 o: :55 365 55
55:55:5=% 5355:5155 :515m :55
555:3. 555555.

> H.5an m55: H553

waxwou5l8 55555555 555555 o: :55: 5 55 mm<55
5 55:55:05 55. 555:% 53:55 :5 :5 55555555:%.
w5w55:55 o: :55: 555555 5 55555555 5. H5555.
mmi5m 55: 0515555 :55 :5 555% 5555.

5:55.5555555 55555 5255::5m :5 552% 5555:: 515m 5955 :555
:55 5555 :55. :5 555555 5555 555 55 555555 5: 55.55 55: o: 555.
55155555 55:. 35 55.5555. 555 0555 55: 5 3555 o: :55. Ho
553:5 5:55. 5555 251555553 55:5: :55 :5 555—55. W555 555
5555555: 5.55: 555 55 5555555 :515m :5 @5555 55: 55:55:55. .55
55555: 5: :5 555.555 555m®5m 5555:: 55 5555: o: :5 5555555 5: :55?
:55555 55: :5 555: o: :5 :55: 5 55 55555559 552555.. 555 5555::
55 5555 :5 E555m5m :5 555.55 55 :5. :5 555. 5:: 5o. 55 55555555
:9. 55% 5:53:55

55:55.2.31555 55” 55:33: 559:: 55 :5 55:55:5m 55: 555:5m o:
:5 moo:mnlmo 5555 55:5” 5:: 55555:: 5 515? o: :555nl55: :55 :5
:55ou.5:5m 55: c5555m o: :5 555—55. w5nm55555 2555 5555:: 55 :55.
55555: 5% 5 52555555. 55: 5:5: 5 :55 555555 :55. 55:55 :5% 55
:5515559 H55 5:52:55: W555 555% 55 E55: no 5555 555:5 :55
:5 551555555.

I08

iug” Part

.
J

"Gil

Parties

50:00 :00; 0.8; 0.000 05 :0 5:: 00:50:00 080m
0:0. .0080 £00:— 05 0:5 £000 50:00 00 .8:— 0800 0:: _0.8.8u. .090—
.C0.» mm 0005 05 .2 £000 0::00 0 *0 0:00 0 000 000:: 800 .05 000.000:
8 E 20:00 0:... .800 0:c 00.5 05 00 :05003 05 :00 0:00 .8500— 05
5:0 £500.50 10000.0 mm 200.: 0:0. .058”: 00 :80.— 05 1:00.00 00—0000
:_ £0.88 0:3 00000—0 05 0. 0.30:0— 8: 0.8 .._0_;3|:0 00 0:0 .00.:
.805 05 E .3055? “0:5 05 .3 $00.0 05 00 0:000 :_|080m :05?
0.00 £02.: £00.. 05 5 0000—0 :00 00 .0: 500000.00 0 00: 8—08— 020.

00.8.2 xi 30.: 0%

5:3 0m00000
05 00 0:80 0 0:55:00 5000 .80. E000 m:_mo_ 05 00 0.85:2:
0:0 :03. mm 0.80m .m_ x 00:2 :0. 0. £050.00 5 .80: 00:00 mm E000
£000 00 85:00. 0:0 "0:0 .:0 00 0:0 00.0—50.0 008.80 00 40:03 £000
.0 08:03:80 £08.00 :0330 00 5000 A085 00 00.888 .80 30w?“
.5 0.0055: 002.80 0: 020; 81004 .0800“ 08m 000% 05 0305

0.2..Q 0.03.5 3

5000—0
0A 00:: 0080.0 m:_.$0=£ 05 $01.5 mm 08:050..“ 05 0:55 Jaw—00.5
000; 005 0.8.8520 05 0.0.8005 5:0 50:0:80 0:0—830.00 :00; 00;
£03.: .5: 0 :8: 080: 0.:0800380 0 80—00 .85 002.00 200nm 05
00 5:0 930.8530 05 “0008 53.8.05
05 :0 50.: 00 00.... 00—5: 0.8.: 000:

0.8.820...“ 05 :0 525.00 8 50:08.0
0a 2:05 0:989 .380 05 .0 0:00
0; 00—: £035 .8 0:880:08 05 :5
80:00—00 :_ 00.80000 0; 30050 03:00.0
#003 0830:: .8 :0870 £055 .:mmm0—0
0_:w_m:m 203000000 :0 5:0 0:050:05 .8 £035 0.:0:_00m?8m £000
5?: 0.885000 05 .0 850.8000 05 mm 38200 50:. 05:18.0.850V
00800380 05 0. 300.000 05 :08 0. 0m0umo0 :3 000: mm .88.:
05 0:0 003.500 05 .0055 00.000000 0.00 0300.80 88¢ 0000—080
0:0 0.885000 50—0 00 0w0x000 0 mmES 80000 5000100000050?
.080; 0.0.: 0030 00:052.“ 0.00 0:3 30:05:80 05 00 80.00880 0.
.8000 @508» gum—0:00.80 00 0.00.000 0:00 0:0 30:: 0.|080.§.~

 

08.00.:000. .80 .9000 :0E00_>._0m .8.— 0.800205

0

(Fold Alon: This Line)

0

.0005 .0800... 00.00000 ea 00.: 080w 02L. 8:3 “000* 05 00 0:: 0
.000 000:: 039% $5 :_ 0800—0 05 00 £00m 50— mm 000% 0:0 0:8 5::
000.5000 0050:0050 00 00000.00 05$. .80 0.8 8—00 mm; wEEo: 0005
:0 5:0 0m:_m 0 0.0m 0800—0 w:m:m0:80 05 *0 0:0 5:: 2008:2020 mm
009% 5000 00 00000—0 .0: 0.8 0800—0 w:_:.3:_00 05 00 00:03 000:5
.80 00—0 0:0. .0I0m 05 505 “00005050 000 8—00 .05 820—0; 8000—0
:0 .000 .8000 mm; 00 8—00 05 0:0 0:00 0; ...mom:_m.. 800—0 0 :05»,
.05 .0008 $03 :80: 05 :0 5050—0 mm 08% 2:. .8000 *0 00:0 05 .0
0:0 0:0 0:00 0m:mm 0 8.0.80 5000 030 4:003:00 £000 .8“ 0:0 0:0
mm 0.85 005 00 .8000 00 08—00 0:08.55 0.»: 00 0020 8000600 EU

00.0.5 20.030.20.me

300 00:0 m:mow.00u. 03:30:: a.

 0 .. ...n.

I
u—
I-Il

A00000

n.=0n0EOUv .. . 35:03 0:03.: 0 5:0 85:50 mamas—U
C005? 00 0.00000 .

T820088 .0300 52:00:00 80.: 0:2).

3:03 .0800: 0:000:00 0mm

:5
d

00028.50 85:0 E.—

D

moi

8.005%: . 0.: 00:3 000A 00.000 000—00050 w:m5.300m

A2003 .30; .8000“: 08:00.5 3:0 80.000.00.00; .80 0:0 0020m

300$ .03 .8 00.04 :00. :0 .8“ 000m
0580—00 .885 .000 000.5

mo'tu

I
II-
J

A8503: 080—0000

:01

Ol

. AS03800 050*: 005010.» hm
2—00 0.8087; .0800 um 0E0.— : 005.5 .u

505803 0:00.080 .0: 8300.00 5000
.80 5:0. “000* 05 0. 0.8.: .8 002800 0...: 20:00 75.: 800—0 5000 .000
.5000 0.8 0.8.080 0000.80 05 .38: 0:5 05 .«0 5:0 05 :0 :00 .85 00
5:05 .8 20.50.00 .000“ 05 00 0:0:— 00 *0 000.0: 05 :30—0 03...: «0:0
800.. 05 8050 20—808 00 E05 .8.“ 008.5: .8050 30:0 5:0 50:00
1:0 8000 2:008:80 030 .0000 0:000 03 :00 .85 0.84.: :83 05
“0:00.00 0005 0005 .3 85:0: “0:0 .8000
.0 000_0 0 :0 0:0 £000 0:007. .00:mn0m0E
0:00:00 :m 3.880.058.0500 80¢ 30.50.00
~83 0.505. :03 .3583 £03.: 0.8.00

.0050 05 .0 00.8030 80 8 0:0m0_m 0.2.5

"mam ESE

 

The Family

Turns to an Age-0h] Sport.

 

Evening is leeture time in the home of Lt. Col. and Mrs. VVal-
ter R. Walsh. The children have been shooting sinee they left
the cradle. Father was formerly an FBI agent, knows his guns.

HERE ARE THOSE who believe America needs more fam-
T ily recreation. Going, they say, is the family zest for
croquet, ice cream freezes and song fests at home. De-
parted are the leisurely, even-tempered days of prc-indus-
trial might. In a fast-moving age, geared to mechanical
monotony, what interests and activities, they ask, can sup-
plement thcse old-time hearth-huggers?

The old-timers, lamenting the present threat to the fam-
ily, point with chagrin to the nation’s big-time professional
games, which leave thousands of spectators comfortably
applauding from the sidelines the perfection of highly
trained athletes. In a family, where cach member has chan-
neled his competitive interests, pursuits lead wildly off in
a half-dozen directions during the hours when family bonds
should be deepened and enriched.

It is for these reasons primarily that many rccrcation
leaders are applauding the growing family interest in an

 

AUTHOR is a :3th[ member of the National Rifle Assn.

NOVEMBER 1952

 

Ruth Jacquemine

age-old leisure time sport that unites its members in a com-
mon activity, that of competitive shooting. With the pos-
sible exception of bowling, no other recreation possesses
the ageless, year-round appeal of the target sport.

The National Rifle Association, parent organization of six
thousand senior shooting clubs in this nation and abroad,
reports that two hundred fifty thousand adults are cur-
rently engaged in rifle and pistol shooting as members of
the national organization. This membership includes thou-
sands of women, ranging from youthful stenographers to
housewives and grandmothers, who, with several thousand

junior clubs and patrols, attcst to the family-wide appeal
of the shooting game.

What is there about this sport that attracts those of all

ages and divergent occupations? And what can it do to
further family life together?

First of all, it meets the natural fascination of all for
firearms. Properly guided, this fascination can be made a
social and national asset, rathcr than a menace to society.
Secondly, it answers the gregarious and competitive nature
of man with a fair and disciplinary sport that bars no age
or physical defect; and in this second factor lies the basic
reason for shooting’s universal appeal.

Not only is the robust ditch diggcr, bricklayer or police
oiiicer able to meet the demands of the shooting game, but
the artist, professional man, industrial worker or physically
handicapped person can compete on a just basis, owing to
rules and pcculiarities of the competition. Because physical
strength is no measure of shooting success, and improved
and varicd gun sights aid those of failing eyesight, a wide
variety of persons are able to excel].

There are instances where women shootcrs have triumph-
antly laid down their arms after running up scores that
put their male companions to shame. Elderly men, using
sights to compensate for their defective natural vision,
have walked off with tr0phies that inexperienced “young-
sters” have been striving to capture for years. _

Even the physically handicapped find an official place in
the shooting sport. The National Rifle AsSociation, after

365

duc investigation, will grant concessions as to firing posi-
tion to those who suffer a competitive disadvantage from
loss of limb or other defect.

Fair elassification of all shooters is another appealing
aspect of the competition. This classification, based on past
lx-rformanees, groups those of emnparable ability, thus
insuring the keenest sporting satisfaction and just distribu-
tion of awards.

For youngsters, there is satisfaction in a manly sport
which provides them with hunting skills and the means to
excel in markmanship. Strangely, too, they are attracted
by the self-discipline it imposes—centering the target shot
requires rigid self-control—so that this desirable character
trait comes to them in a natural way. Boys, particularly.
find romance in the story of the American rifleman, and
feel a kinship with this national hero who has played so
prominent a role in the creation and defense of his

country.

As a family sport, then, shooting answers the demands
of all. In addition, it is comparatively inexpensive—one
gun for each member of the family or one gun for all
members.

With all members of the family shooting, usually on the.
same range, there is a heightened sense of family identity.
Families become friendly competitors and take pride in
filial accomplishment. Dad oversees his children’s game
and appreciates and knows his sons and daughters better
because they share a like interest. Mom is taken outside
the humdrum circle of home demands, competes against
men as well as women, appreciates and takes pride in her
family in a new sense.

Much of the competition is conducted out-of—doors, pro-
viding a healthful atmosphere which sharply contrasts with
the demoralizing influence of many of the present day’s
amusements. It is a game which promotes the nation's
basic need—a united, healthy and happy family.

 

Sign Up, Grandma!
Margery W clls Steer

Grandma is making the headlines! One publication
features an orchestra composed entirely of grandmothers;
another carries a full page portrait of a grandmother la-
boring over her school work. Grandma Moses kecps pop-
ping up in print to prove that life begins for some people
long after it ends for others.

Grandma, it seems, is a gold mine of energy and talent
which is too often overlooked!

That all grandmothers are deeply interested in their
grandchildren is obvious to anyone who listens to the
spirited exchange of anecdotes and observes the proud
showing of snapshots which takes place when groups of
older women get together. Since this interest in the rising
generation exists, why not put it to work for the children
of the community?

It was this thought which prompted a young mother of
four to rise in a school Mothers’ Club meeting to propose
a special campaign to enroll the grandmothers of the com-
munity as members. Mothers, she reminded the group, are
generally so involved in round-the-cloek care of their fam‘
ilics that their time and strength for community work is
limited even though their interest is not. Grandmothers
have more free time, they certainly have more experience,
and she would even go so far as to admit that they might
have more skill and judgment in organizing people for
action. Their help would be invaluable to the Mothers”
Club and to all community programs and organizations
which work for the welfare of children and youth. “We
can't draft Grandma,” she finished, “but let's give her a

chance to enlist
ln the family and community life of China, the older

 

MRS. STEEII is a grandmother and homemaker from Ohio.

366

members have a place of special usefulness and respect.
The Chinese people assume that years of living will yield
some measure of understanding, and that it is the rcspon-
sibility of the older generation to communicate the fruits
of experience to those who follow them.

Families and communities which fail to make use of the
experience and ability of grandmothers are wasting a valu-
able resource. The tendency of women to drop out of child
study groups, parent teacher associations, and recreation
programs as soon as they no longer have children in the
local school is unfortunate for the child, the school, and
the community. It is also unfortunate for the women them-
selves. If Grandma is not allowed to become an asset, she
may become a liability—bored, unhappy, unwanted. She
can be one of the most useful people in any community,
and her contribution need not be limited to knitting and
baby sitting.

One of the educational journals reports that in some
communities grandmothers are being used in the schools
as assistants to teachers with crowded classrooms and
heavy schedules. They help with record-keeping, correct
papers, supervise play periods, conduct field trips, and in
a variety of ways a re able to ease the teacher’s load. They
are especially useful as leaders of after-school hobby clubs.
Both the children and their grandmothers benefit from the
association with one another.

Child-serving organizations of many kinds are constant-
ly in need of volunteers. They offer jobs which Grandma
can have for the asking and which will provide her with
activities as absorbing and satisfying as those of the most
youthful earecr girl. hi the fields of education and reerc-
ation, her skills, her hobbies, her interests and her insights
are indispensable.

We are accustomed to being told that the children of a
community are one of its greatest resonrecs. So, we might
add, are their grandparents. No community can afford to
overlook the contribution they are equipped, and in many
cases eager, to make.

ltrzcmm‘nos

 

‘In._-_—-. _.




 “West o
A?

Sending Ont Questionnaires

When sending out questionnaires to
various recreation, or other, depart-
ments—always send the form in. dupli-
cale, one copy to serve as file copy for
the department receiving questionnaire
and the other to be returned to the de-
partment requesting information. I be-
lieve this not only would create a good
feeling between the departments but
would save a good deal of time. There-
by the department requesting informa-

tion would get a reply sooner.—Lynn
Schmid, Dallas, Texas.

Special Services

In one NRA district the association
district representative is giving ad-
dresses to the olhcer classes of Special
Services Schools. Says he, “I have
never talked to a group that seemed to
be more interested in learning about
the resources and assistance available
to them.” In establishing a coopera-
tive relationship with army personnel,
therefore, it might be a good idea to
call upon your DR for this type of
service in your district.

Handy Helps

. Looking" for materials for Charm
School or good grooming program for
Tecn-age clubs? The Educational Scrv-
ices Department of Bristol-Meyers Com-
pany, 45 Rockefeller Plaza, New York

20, has attractive free material.

. Are your adult-age groups interested
in making silver jewelry? Ask for a
copy of Making Hand Wrought Ster-
ling Silver Jewelry, an excellent man-
ual available from the Craft Service
Department, Handy and Harman, 82
Fulton Street, New York 38, New
York. It’s free to official recreation de-
partments; $1 for individuals.

NOVEMBER 1952

m -.'
a— .-
ME

  
   
 

     
 

. Do you need a radio script or tape
recording of how a teen-center and
council got started in a small town?
Write to The People Act Center, State
College, Pennsylvania. Script is free;
tape recording is $1.85. Other scripts
and recordings are also available.

Good Promotion

A good idea was followed out in
Topeka, Kansas, one year when a series
of articles on Topeka municipal recre-
ation had been appearing in the local
press. They collected the articles and
reproduced them, via photo offset, in
a pamphlet used to promote the organ-
ization of a recreation commission,
funds for which are the subject of a
referendum vote this month. No addi-
tional copy needed to be added to these
attractive handouts which cllectively
told their story of accomplishments and
of the local recreation inadequacies

resulting from lack of funds.

Recreation Directory

A worthwhile project for a recrea-
tion department to undertake is one
such as is illustrated by the Nebraska

Recreation Directory, 1951 edition.
This identifies for citizens of the state

the various religious, social and wel-
fare organizations- -national and local
——which offer recreation projects in lo-
cal communities. (Thc directory not
only tells of each agency’s purpose
and function, but also gives the names
and addresses of those persons who
can supply additional facts and fig-
ures.) Issued by Community Services
and Institutes of the l'niversity Ex-
tension Division of the liniversity of
Nebraska, the list includes such groups
as the American National Red Cross,
Boy and Girl Scouts of America, Great
Plains Recreation Leaders’ Labora-
tory, Futurc Farmers of America, Na-
tional Recreation Association, Nebras-
ka Congress of Parents and Teachers,
Nebraska Folk and Square Dance As-
sociation, various departments of the
University of Nebraska, and others.
This might be done on a local or coun-
ty basis.

Quickies
Two good suggestions come from
Reading, Pennsylvania.

°A bowling clinic with local alleys
donating free use for the clinic, and
the American Bowling Congress send-
ing a professional bowler to hold the
clinic.

°A playground patrol run by the
police department. Once each day a
prowl-car drives slowly by each Read-
ing playground, and if the director or
superintendent has any problems he
signals the car—whereupon it draws
up and settles the matter, if necessary.
This is all done in a very friendly,
casual way. The director expects it;
the youngsters look forward to it, and

it gives to all a sense of protection and
feeling of security.

AWARDS YOU CAN AFFORD

OVER
DEPARTMENTS

IOO RECREATION
USING

OUR PLASTIe TROPHYS

WRITE TODAY FOR

 

FREE SAMPLE

 

\u hut-“run Us link and. (null-Illnlinn I nll

%W ...in Design,

Performance and Safety

‘.

  

It's the plus factor that makes American the most respected name in
Playground Equipment. First, plus in design. Never content to copy,
American engineers have pioneered scores of design improvements and
innovations. Next, plus in performance. Employing superior materiols,
moster craftsmonship ond improved production methods, Americon
Approved Equipment is built to endure. Finally, plus in safety. Amer-
icon croftsmen ore oware of their responsibility for the sofety of your
children. Thus, with American you receive 0 combinotion of for
superior design, unexcelled performance, ond unmatched sofety.

The plus foctor extends to our deolings with
customers. You will find AMERICAN pleas-
ant to do business with, prompt and equi-
table in adiustments, eager to protect on en-
vioble reputation neorly holf 0 Century old.

AMERICAN

PLAYGIIOI'NID DEVICE ('0.
ANDEIISIDN. INDIANA

 

Ilunl ‘l u  bun-f. 1| I l'IO Illt ‘vflll

itrluv In \nun. nr “tilt”
"‘ "'*-""" “m ‘l‘ " "m"? ""i [Todd's Largest allanufurturo‘rs Qf (in?

i'iqwi'rmt mi .s' \trim mint; Poul Equipmvuf

W . 7 non CATALOGS AND SPECIAL LITBnA'rrnB
lute 0m FEATI’BING AMERICAN APPROVED

PLAYGROVVD BQI’II’MEVT - o :- SWIMMING POOL EQUIPMENT - 0 - ALImAMI-lnltiA‘N PICNIC GRILLS
ALL-AMERICAV I'NIFORSI HANGERS - a - AMERICAN IIE’AV'Y D'I‘TY CIIBCKIN’G AND G“ MNASII'M BASIN-2TH
STEEL BASKEI‘ “\CKS a a o AMERIC‘N REI’AIR ROFII'MB‘NT - a o \‘IBRICAN IIOAIE PLAY EQI'II’MBNT



h. liltm mm

 

 
            
  
 
   

NOW—boys and girls of all ages find
good reading is good fun!

 

. - ' “it,  ? ")5"? . x .   lit...“ a," -  I ,
CHILDREN’S DIGEST—The best of the old and new—

in children’s literature—for boys and girls from 5 to 12

CHILDREN'S DIGEST is a must in every children's libraryl Each iSsue brings 132
colorfully illustrated pages with reprints of the well loved classics—Dickens, Stevenson,
Kipling, Milne, and stories of present day authors, like Bianca, Dr. Suess, Mitchell,
Baum, as well as pages of good comics, puzzles, things to do. Widely acclaimed by
librarians, teachers, parents and boys and girls themselves, it is a delightful,
instructive magazine that makes good reading good funl

1 year ()0 issues) $3 2 years (20 issues) $5

HUMPTY DUMPTY‘S MAGAZINE for little children 3 to 7

Here, at last, is a sparkling magazine to delight, instruct and entertain little children.
Designed for the child from 3 to 7, every story and activity in the l32 colorful digest-
size pages will give the child the ioy of doing things, and instill a love for good
reading. Each issue will bring Tell-Me Stories, Read-Aloud Stories, Stories for Begin-
ners, all by leading children's ‘oulhars, plus ingenious pages of coloring, drawing,
cutouts, puzzles, games, stimulating things to do. A treasure for busy little hands
.. . for active little minds)

1 year (10 issues) $3 2 years (20 issues) $5 '

COMPACT—The Pocket Magazine for Young People
Now published monthly and available by subscriptions!

Each 164 page lively issue will include two condensations of the best books for young
people, a selection of the best articles, features, fiction, romance, adventure; a
monthly fashion report and departments on movies, personalities, careers, everything
that will make COMPACT the counsellor and companion of teen-age bays and girls.

1 year ()0 issues) $3 2 years (20 issues) $5

Published by the Publishers of. Parents' Magazines
.  em    my ’7‘   ;; - ... $ ’
PARENTS’ MAGAZINE—the indispensable reference 

. _ A I
A
r

for e group worker ("We . ‘

Today, thousands of group workers everywhere use and refer to this practical,
authoritative reference on child care and training. PARENTS' MAGAZINE is the only
publication that covers the newest trends, the up-ta-date thoughts on the everyday
problems of rearing children from crib to college. Graup workers find so much help
in the important articles; the reviews of new books for children and parents,- the free
study programs for parents groups. The departments on movies, recreation, family fun,
make it an invaluable guide for everyone interested in children of any age.

 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  

   

     

O chlld care 0 adolescence

O heatth O fomlly relations

0 school adiustments I communlty llvlng

I behovlor problems . fomlly departments
0 teen age problems on toads, home, etc.

1 year $3 2 years $5 3 years $7
Parents‘ Institute, Inc., 52 Vanderbilt Ave., N. Y. 17, N. Y.

      

NOVEMBER 1952 369

 

Summer Playgrouml Echoes—1952

in Evanston, lllinois, the bureau of
recreation again sponsored its eight-
week summer playground program for
retarded children. The five half-day
\scck program of regular activities is
supervised by one director, employed
by the bureau, and salaries of other
leaders are paid by parents.

And in Ogden, Utah, a rehabilita.
tion play center for physically handi-
capped children was conducted for the
second summer season, by an employee
of the city recreation department. On
the lawns of Utah schools for the deaf
and blind, special play apparatus has
been provided and some three hundred
children throughout the city partici-
pate in the programs. Assistance is
given by the mothers of the children.

Thanksgiving Fiesta

The script which will be used in the
annual 'l'hanksgiving fiesta in llono-
lulu has been written by a member of
the recreation division's stafi, Mrs.
Shirley Lombard. Entitled “The lndi-
an’s Thanksgiving Dinner," it is based
on an actual experience of Mrs. Lom-
bard’s maternal ancestor. who lived in
lndian territory.

Looking Ahead to Christmas

Mr. Macy's Thanksgiving parade,
welcoming Santa Claus to New York
City. is rivaled by the annual Ynle
parade of the boys and girls in Fresno,
California. Christmas lore and tales of
Story llook band are interpreted by
means of miniature floats. mounted on

370

coaster wagons or other juvenile con-
veyanccs and decorated by the chil-
dren themselves; by marching, cos-
tumed groups, often accompanied by
pets of assorted sizes; and by in-
dividual characterizations. Parade cn-
tries are sometimes reverent, as in the
case of scenes from the Nativity, and
sometimes comic, often beautiful, and
always full of life and color.

Last year, the entire school and city
playground stafi' engaged in organizing
and marshalling the parade and Fresno
State College students and Boy Scouts
aided along the line of march. Recrea-
tion director llolman was in general
charge at the assembly point and play-
ground supcrintcndcnt Quiglcy was the
grand marshall. The parade was spon-
sorcd by the recreation department.
The Fresno Bee, radio station KM]
and the downtown division of the l’rcs-
no County and City Chamber of Com-
mercc.

Facts and Figures
Financed by a $1,000,000 bond

issue, Hutchinson, Kansas, has com.
plcted a city sports arena building
which will seat approximately 7,000
pcoplc-——4,700 when it is used for has-
kctball. Oli-strcct parking is provided
for 3.000 ears. The building contains
ofliccs, storage spaces, dressing rooms.
a practice gymnasium, press and radio
booths and eight concession stands. . . .
A local club in Briiiion, Wisconsin,
sponsored a “frontier days” celebration
which raised approximately $20,000—
funds to be used for a park which the
club is donating to the village. . . .Onc
result of the study on rccrcation, made
by the recreation informal education
section of the Houston, Texas, com.
munity council. was an increase in the
parks and recreation budget. to bring
its I952 appropriation to approximate-

° ly $920,000. . . . The Tennessee l)e-

partnnrnt of Conservation, division of
state parks. is now including a section
of recreation news in its monthly
.\'elcslcuer. Printed on green paper to
distinguish it from park news. the rec-
contaius items from

rcation section

municipal recreation departments
throughout the state. . . . A new regis-
tration fee of fiye dollars

from one dollar

increased
for non-resident chil-
(lrcn using Cincinnati's public play-

grounds became cficctivc July 15. The
legality of charging a child who lives
outside of the city, but inside of the
city school district, for using facilities
on the property of the board of educa-
tion, was passed upon by the city
solicitor.

Help from the Public

The Boston Board of Recreation in-
stituted, early in the year. a campaign
to encourage the public to write to lo-
cal neighborhood papers about the rec-
rcation picture in the community. The
column in one paper, with the heading.
“Recreation Clinic. What’s the Beef?"
explained that lettcrs would be pub-
lished, if possible, and would be con-
sidcrcd by the board in planning more
cfiectivc recreation.

- “Sports” Note

ln Reading, Massachusetts,a version
of the great Olympic Games at Helsin-
ki was cut to fit their playground pro-
gram—Krazy Kolympics. The discus
throw was a paper plate, a standing
broad grin and water melon race were
features. the impressive march to the
field, under the chosen flag. was pat-
tcrncd on the Olympic program and a
great dove of peace and many flags
thrilled spectators aml participants.

Community Park

A cemetery, which has not been used
for burials for more than a half-cen-
tury, has been turned into a communi-
ty park in Ratcsvillc, Arkansas. lts old
stones left intact, enhanced by new
shrubbcry and flowers. the formerly
ncglccted spot is now a pleasant place
in which to relax for the city's thous-
ands of shoppers and their children
who come by bus and car from sur-
rounding rural areas. The project was
sparked by the garden club, which do-
nated $100 and secured approval of
lot owners. All civic and service clubs
in the city aml some county demonstra-
tion clubs contributed to the financing
of public rcst rooms, walks and
benches and drinking fountains.

Speaking of cemeteries. the liaton
Rouge recreation and park eonnnission
belieu's it is the only recreation (le-
paltmcnt in the country which is also
responsible for the maintenance of a
cemetery.

ltecannma

Chereh Reereetien Institute

The laughter of sixty-three Roman
Catholic nuns dancing and playing
games with quiet merriment rippled
like a fresh breeze across the campus
of Ladycliff College for four days last
spring.

It is not a strange thing to hear a
nun laugh. But it is not usual to see
one swing a bat, or toss a basketball
against a backboard, or dance the
Lindy Hop, or perform a card trick, or
crouch over a campfire to toast marsh-
mallows.

Although the sisters from fifteen dif-
ferent religious orders enjoyed them-
selves, the occasion was not exactly a
holiday for them. There was serious
business involved in each of the one
hundred and one games they played.

The sisters were attending a recrea-
tion institute sponsored by the child
care department of New York Catholic
Charities at Ladycliff College, a Cathoo
lic women’s college adjacent to West
Point.

They were learning the latest tech-
niqucs of recreation for one purpose:
so that they might the better restore a
birthright to more than 5.000 neglect-
ed and dependent children in the New
York Archdiocese. The nuns believe
that fun and play is one of the esse.1-
tial rights of childhood.

They learned the rules and tricks of
basketball to help channel the ener-
gies of the active and aggressive, a
hatful of magic tricks to teach the
timid and shy and give them (:01an-
dencc, and certain games that will of-
fer play to the crippled and handi-
capped. They have also gained this
knowledge: that in play crippled chil-
dren move limbs which the), were
afraid to more before: that puzzles

Reprinted with permission from A ew York

Hamid-Tribune, April 21. 1952.
NOVEMBER 1952

and guessing games are good for chil-
dren with cardiac disorders.

That was the real reason why white-
rohed Dominican Sisters were teaming
up with gray-garbed Franciscans for a
little baseball, and why the Sisters of
Charity in black bonnets were.swing-
ing their partners, the white-wimpled
Sisters of Christian Doctrine, in square
dances while one of the Sisters of Mer-
cy in a black habit called the numbers.

The Rev. Michael F. Dwyer, director
of the division of child care of Catho-
lic Charities, told the women, “A tre-
mendous void for which there is no
adequate substitute is created in a
child's life when he loses or is separated
from his parents. You Sisters can to
some degree fill the emptiness in their
lives by giving them a chance for play
and recreation which will stimulate
them to do things and inspire in them
initiative.”

Francis Sugrue

Mrs. Anne Livingston of the Nation-
al Recreation Association, one of the
institute leaders, reminded the nuns
that there must be four major recrea-
tional interests—physical, mental, cre-
ative and social—to make a well bal-
anced program.

There are track, swimming, basket-
ball and tennis for physical recreation;
quizzes, study clubs, debates and cross-
word puzzles for the mental variety;
drama, music, arts and crafts in the
creative field; and picnics. parties,
dances and special events to fill the
social needs.

Others directing the instruction were
the Rev. Terrence Cooke, assistant di-
rector of the department of youth ac-
tivities of Catholic Charities; Miss
Eulalie Steinmetz, supervisor of story
telling for the New York Public Li-
brary, and Sister M. Hortense. of the
Sisters of Mercy, Tarrytown.

Catholic nuns from fifteen different religious orders learned many new play activities.

 

371

 

\Vcathcrproof Lamp Holder

A new weatherproof lamp holdcr,
the Stonco Cushion-Seal Holder, de-
signed to prolong lamp life and end
common lamp headaches in outdoor
lighting, is manufactured by Stonco
Electric Products Company, 333 Mon-
roe Avenue, Kenilworth, New Jersey.
The holder makes use ofa high temper-
ature, silicon rubber cushion-seal that
hugs the neck of the lamp in a tight
weatherproof seal which is reported to
withstand the highest heat to which
the lamp could bc subjected and the
most adverse wcathcr conditions in
outdoor service.

The new unit is made of non-co:-
rosive cast aluminum with a glazed
porcelain heatproof socket. The silicon
cushion-seal is backed with an im-
pregnatcd asbestos heat barrier and
lockcd in place by a rigid aluminum
reinforced disc.

The cushion-seal adapts itself to fit
all R40 and PAR-38 lamps, whether
long, short or off-center. It carries UL
and CSA approval for use with medi-
um base or mogul reflector lamps in
the standard 150w, 200w, 300w, and
500w sizes now made by all major
lamp manufacturers. Light weight
holders of this type provide brilliant
area floodlighting when used in clus-
tcr installations and the singlc lamp
units provide snpplcmcntary highlight-
ing for many types of outdoor illumi-
nation and display.

 

372

Rubber Tire Roller Skates

Roller skating can be added to rec-
reation programs at little cost or dif-
fieulty by using roller skatcs with rub-
ber wheels which will not mar, scratch
or damage floors. A clamp type skate
(Model No. 785-5) is manufactured by
the Chicago Roller Skate Company,
Chicago 24, Illinois, for use in gym-
nasiums, halls and ballrooms. Rollcr
skating is extremcly popular with tccn-
agers and provides sound, healthful
recreation. Write to the company for
information on how to start
skating programs.

roller

Swimming Pool Radiant Heating

Workmen embedded a radiant heat-
ing system of wrought iron pipes in
the floor-dcck of Miami University’s
new natatorium in Oxford, Ohio, which
paralleled accomplishments of the R0-
mans in Bath, England, two thousand
years ago. Although this is the hrs!
recorded use of radiant heat in con-
nection with prescnt-day swimming
pool construction, Romans, during
their occupation of England, circulated
hot gases from charcoal fires through
walls and floors of buildings housing
the baths. The modern floor-type radi-
ant heating system installed in the na-
tatorium of Miami University uses
heated water circulated through the
network of wrought iron pipe at eon-
trollcd temperatures. For details write
to the A. M. Byers Company, Clark
Building, Pittsburgh 22, Pennsylvania.

Krilinm
Kriliuni—a new compound now be-
ing prepared in noncommercial quan-
tities—offers interesting possibilities
for park maintenance, among othcr

things. This stabilizes the soil, and per-
Inits it to hold greater amounts of

moisture, thus helping to prevent ero-
sion, while keeping the top layers of
soil soft and workablc. Descriptive arti-
clcs have appeared in Country Gentle-
rnan, March 1952, and other maga-
zines. A film on the usc and possibili-
tics of Krilium is obtainable from the
Advertising and Public Relations Dc-
partmcnt, Monsanto Chemical Com-
pany, St. Louis 4, Missouri. Other simi-
lar products are now on the market
under different trade namcs.

Model Oil Field Kit

'A new kind of “lcarn-by-doing” kit
which can be assembled into a com-
plete and authentic scale model of a
producing oil field is now available. It
offers a new way to learn with all the
zcst of play and crcativc work com-
bined. In addition to containing the
essential elcmcnts of a real oil field—
including exploration parties, crcwmcn,
dcrricks, wells, storage tanks and
trucks—the kit provides a large draw-
ing showing thc underground strata in
which oil is found. An illustrated
“Teaching Handbook,” which enables
any adult to givc necessary instruction
for assembling the balsa wood, dowels,
buttons, spools and dress snaps that
make up the scale model, explains each
stcp of the exploration, drilling, pro-
duction and storage of oil. This hand-
book and thc supplementary “Story of
Oil,” which is included, were developed
by thc Educational Section ofStandard
Oil Company of California. The cost
of thc kit is $3.95 postpaid. Dis-
counts are éllowcd to institutions,
clubs and other buyers of quantity
lots. For kits or information writc
Models of Industry, Incorporated, Dc-
partlncnt B, 2801 Tenth Street, Berkc-

lcy 2, California.

 

ltecaenmx

Listening and Viewng

Perhaps the largest sponsor of 16mm
films is our federal government. Cer-
tainly, its interest in their production
has grown since 1938, when the first
directory of government films was
issued, containing three hundred sev-
enty-nine titles. The 1952 catalogue,
issued by the Visual Education Service
of the United States Office of Educa-
tion, is entitled 3434 United States
Govermnent Filrns. Titles are listed
alpllabctically and described, hut not
indexed by subject. Films may be bor-
rowed, purchased from United World
Films, 1445 Park Avenue, New York
29, or rented from the nearest 16mm
film library. From Superintendent of
Documents, Government Printing 0f-

fice, Washington 25, D. C. $.70.

Available from the same source, is
A Directory of 2002 Film Libraries
which lists the titles and nature of
16mm films available from each li-
brary, and any special restrictions on
their distribution and use. $.30.

Other additions to the reference
shelf of the audio-visual leader might
be the following:

Handbook on 16mm Films for Ma-
sic Edacation, prepared by Lilla Belle
Pitts of Teachers College, Columbia
University, primarily compiled for
teachers of music and listing films to
be used as educational materials, but
useful to any lcader planning a music
program. In fact, the suggestions of-
fered on the “why” and “how” of the
use of music films are applicable to
films on any other activity in the pro-
gram. Of general interest, are thc films
“For Everybody,” and “Information
Films.” More specialized, are “Music
Films for Correlated Units of Study
(Arts, Scienccs)” and “Skill Films
(Conccrt and Recital).” The resource
section is an cxcellent foundation for
the reference shelf of any audio-visual
department. It contains directories of
government film services; local, state
and university film libraries; commer-
cial produccrs and distributors; re-
sources available at thc public library
and lists pamphlcts, periodicals, bulle-
tins, catalogues and books. From Music
Educators National Conference, 64 East
Jackson Boulevard, Chicago 4. $1.50.

NOVEMBER 1952

Films on Art lists and appraises over
four hundred fifty 16mm films on art
subjects. It serves as a textbook on the
use and programming of the art films,
as well as of the non-theatrical film in
general. Edited by William Nch. Chap-
man, it contains articles by well known
authorities in the film and art fields.
From The American Federation of

Arts, 1083 Fifth Avenue, New York 28.
$4.00. ($3.20 to federation members.)

More Publishers’ Records
Big and little Golden Records, un-

breakable and bright yellow, are be-
coming as well known as the books by
the same name. Among new fall titles,
many drawn from popular radio pro-
grams and motion pictures, particu-
larly Walt Disney’s productions, are:
Treasury of Christmas Songs
(BR11) , twelve Christmas carols.
Songs from Walt Disney’s Story of
Robin Hood (DBRS), complete story
in ballad form, songs from recently re-
leased motion picture. $1.05 each.
Gilbert and Sullivan (R92), first re-
lease of a proposed series. $.25.
Also available for Christmas are

Little Golden Christmas Albums (LGRl
and LGR3), four records each. $1.00.
Released by Simon and Schuster, 630
Fifth Avenue, New York 20.

Tape Recording Into Sound Film
Do you have good vacation or camp-

ing films which would make an inter-
esting “movie” program, if they were
accompanied by a commentary? The
Revere Camera Company has devel-
oped a special magnetic recording tape
to be used in conjunction with a re-
flector on any tape recorder with a
spced of 3.75 which, combined with
any size or typc of projector, ,.will add
sound aftcr a film has becn processed.
Thc tape rccorder is threaded‘witll the
spccial tape and set up slightly below
and in front of the lens of the projec-
tor, to which the clamp-on reflector is
attached. When the projcctor is started
and the tape and film are synchronized,
the recording is madc by speaking or
playing music into the recorder’s mi-
crophonc. The sound may be played in
synchronization with the film as many
times as desired. Errors in recording
may be Corrected. Reflector and special
tape cost $7.85.

0 Gymnasium Equlpment
O Telescaplc Gym Seats
0 Basketball Scoreboards
0 Basketball Backstaps

0 Steel Lockers, Lackerabes
and Grade-Robes

20m gm W9
RED MEDART PRODUCTS,|N(.

566 DE KAlB 51'. 51'. lOUl518, M0.

For 78 Years

@‘gne Standard 0! Quality
v F

A Loud Voice 
for Playground? .

Control
with

PORTABLE

BATTERY
AMPLIFIER

O
‘49

Weighs only
12 lbs. (including batteries)

Equipped with trumpet speaker, this
powerful set will extend your voiee
1/5. mi. Trumpet Operates 100 ft. from
set if required. Case speaker easily
heard in 100x100 Ft. Auditorium.
Compaet, sturdy, shockproof. Crys-
tal mike, standard, long-lasting dry
cells.

Only $89.50

With trumpet $119.50
Chest mike $7.50 extra

REX Equipment Co.

2014 Conn. Ave... Washington 8, D.C.

 

373

Books Received

 

ALL SI'ORTs PARADE, Jack C. Dawson.
AII cncyelopedia of sports history.
liart Publications, New York. $2.95.

FLYING SPORTSMAN. TIIE, Lieutenant
Colonel Dave Ilarbour. How to use
the airplane for hunting, fishing and
conservation purposes. A. S. Barnes
and Company, New York. $3.00.

GENEVA SUMMER, Elizabeth llanIilton
Friermood. A romance of College
Camp. Doubleday and Company.
Garden City, New York. $2.50.

GOLDEN BOOKS: TIIE NEW GOLDEN
ALMANAC, Kathryn Jackson; WALT
DISNEY’s PETER PAN, James M.
Barrie. $1.50 each. BABY ANIMALS,
Garth Williams. $1.00. THE CIIRIST-
MAS STORY, Jane Werner; llownY
DOODY AND TIIE PRINCESS, Edward
Kean; LADDIE AND TIIE LITTLE RAD-
RIT, Bill Gottliel); WALT DISNEY’S
DONALD DUCK AND SANTA CLAUS,
Annie North Bedford; WALT DIS-
NEY’S PLUTO PUP GOES To SEA,
Annie North Bedford. 8.25 each.
Simon and Sehuster, New York.

llICIIER JL‘DO, M. Feldenrais. Freder-
iek Wa rne and Company, New York.
52.50.

How To WORK wITII GROUPS, Audrey
and llarley Trecker. Woman’s Press,
New York. 93.00.

PIIYSICAL EDUCATION ACTIVITIES,
SPORTS AND GAMES, Louis E. Means.
William C. Brown Company, Du-
buque, lowa. $4.00.

THE RIGIIT WAY TO PLAY CIIESS, D.
Brine PritclIard. Emerson Books, In-
corporated. $2.00.

SCIENCE FICTION NOVELS: ISLANDS IN
THE SKY, Arthur C. Clarke; MISTS
0F DAWN, Chad Oliver. Jolm C. Win-
stOII Company, Philadelphia. Paper
hound, $2.00 each.

SPREAD FORMATION FIIOTIIALL, Leo R.

Meyer. Prentice-llall, New York.
$3.95.

   

FOR CATALOG WRITE: 9‘99
W. .l. Volt Rubber Corp.
1600 [Mt 23th Street

lo: Angel" 11, Cal".

374

dimericaéi gineét
a4t/zletic equipment

15 BUILT BY

STUDYING STUDENTS—GUIDANCE M ETII-
ODs OE INDIVIDUAL ANALYSIS, Clif-
ford P. FroelIliclI and John G. Dar-
ley. Science Research Assoeiates,
Chicago. $4.25.

'l‘ttAT'S MY DOC! Leon I". Whitney.
Fiction. Dodd. Mead 3' Company,
New York. $2.75.

THUNDER ROAD. William Campbell
Gault. Fiction dealing with racing
cars. E. P. Dutton and Company.
New York. $2.50.

TREES. Herbert S. Zim and Alexander
C. Martin. A guide to familiar Ameri-
can trees. Simon and Schuster, New

York. Paper, $1.00.

Pamphlets

 

AND PROMENADE ALL, Helen and
Larry Eisenberg. A collection of
folk games and square dances. Helen
and Larry Eisenberg, 2403 Branch
Street, Nashville, Tennessee. $1.00.

ART ACTIVITIES ALMANAC, first and
second editions. Things to do. ex-
plained and illustrated. Art Educa-
tion Alumnae Association, Art Edu-
cation Department, Wayne Univer-
sity, 100 West Kirby, Detroit 2,
Michigan. First edition $1.75. Sec-
ond edition $1.25.

ATIILETIC INJURIES, Rollie Bevan.
Treatment for injuries frequently
incurred in competitive sports; a
manual for trainers. Denver Chemi-
cal Manufacturing Company, 163
Varick Street, New York 13, New
York.

BOOK or CIVIC DEFINITIONS, A. Foun-
dation for Civic Education, 62 East
80th Street, New York. $.35.

COOPERATIVES LOOK AIIEAD, TIIE, Jer-
ry Voorhis. Public Affairs Pam-
phlets, 22 East 38th Street, New
York 16. $.25.

GAMES, RIIYTIIMs, DANCES, C. Jean
Barnett. George Stanley Company.
1225 South Biscayne Point Road,
Miami Beach, Florida.

  

 
     

   

O
(«4(4-W4-H

          
   
    

New York 10, (II-km 10, 105 Angela 11

 
 

GETTING ALONG WITH PARENTS, Kath-
arine WlIiteside-Taylor. Science Re-
search Associates, 57 West Grand
Avenue, Chicago 10. 8.40.

IIELPING RROTIIERs AND SISTERS GET
ALONG. llelen W. Puner. Science Re-
search Associates, Chicago. $.40.

MAKING AND KEEPING FRIENDS, Wil-
liam C. M enninger. Science Resea relI
Associates, Chicago. $.40.

NATIONAL IIEALTII COUNCIL DIREC-
TORY or MEMBER ORGANIZATIONS,
National Health Council. 1790
Broadway, New York 19, New York.
$.50.

OLD WOOD IN NEW WAYS, Naida Gil-

more Hayes. Decorative arrange-
ments, with photographs. The llayes
Studio, 2353 Vine Street, Berkeley,
California. $1.00.

OUR AUSTRIAN DANCES, Ilerbert Lager.
The National Press, Millbrae, Cali-
fornia.

'OUR PUBLIC SCHOOLS. Report of the
Superintendent of Schools, New
York City, 1952; Part T wo—lnstruc-
tional Materials. Board of Educa-
tion, New York City.

PLAY GROUPS FOR CHILDREN or SCIIOOL
AGE, Miriam Cohen Ilarper. Play
Schools Association, 119 West 57th
Street, New York 19. 3.75.

ROLE PLAYING TIIE PROBLEM STORY,
George and Fannie R. Shaftel. Com-
mission on Edncational Organiza-
tions. National Conference of Chris-
tians and Jews, 381 Fourth Avenue,
Ncw York. $.25.

SOURCES or FREE PICTURES; SOURCES
or FREE AND INENPENSIVE PICTURES
FOR TIIE CLASSROOM: SOURCES or
FREE ANII INENPENSIVE TEACIIING
AIDS, Bruce Miller. Brnee Miller.
Box 369,. Riverside, California. $.50
each.

STATE PARKS—AREAS, ACREAGES AND
ACCOMMODATIONS. United States De-
partment of the Interior. National
Park Scrviee. Recreation Planning
Division, \Vashington. D.C.

UP AIIEAD—A REGIONAL LAND USE
PLAN FOR METROPOLITAN ATLANTA.
Metropolitan Planning Commission,
Atlanta, Gcorgia.

Magazines

 

BEACII AND POOL, September 1952
Successful Pool Operation Be ins
with Carcful Planning and on-
sultation, Wayne A. Becker.
Can We Devise an Electric Distress
Alarm for Swinnning Pools?
“Back-Pressure Arm-Lift" Rcsusci-
tation, Victor G. Lawson.
PARI: MAINTENANCE. September I952
Plan—or Else, Rohcrt B. Bryan.

RECREATION

   

RECREATION

is one of tbe fields in wbicb
SCHOOL ACTIVITIES

has been serving the schools of America
for twenty years. Under the editorship of
Dr. Harry C. McKown, well-known au-
thority on extracurricular activities, this

monthly magazine promotes the following
interests:

ACTIVITY PROGRAMS — Current thought of leaders in the field of democratic group activities.
SCHOOL ASSEMBLIES — An assembly program for each week of the school year.

CLASS PLAYS—Help in selecting and staging dramatic productions.

CLASS ORGANIZATIONS — Directions for the successful guidance of school groups.
FINANCING ACTIVITIES — Suggestions for financing student functions.

ATHLETICS — News and ideas on late developments in intra-mural and interscholastic sports.
DEBATE — Both sides of the current high school debate question.

DEPARTMENT CLUBS — Instructions and aids in the directing of school clubs of all types.
HOME ROOMS — Ideas and plans for educative home room projects.

PEP ORGANIZATIONS — Devices for stimulating loyalty and school spirit.

STUDENT PUBLICATIONS — Guidance in the production of school newspaper and yearbook.
PARTIES AND BANQUETS —Suggestions for educative and wholesome social activities.

STUDENT GOVERNMENT — Sound direction in development of student sense of responsibility.
MISCELLANEOUS ACTIVITIES — Music, commencement, point systems, etc.

Subscription Price  Subscribe Now

School Activities Publishing Co.

[515 LANE STREET TOPEKA, KANSAS

 

 

NOVEMBER 1952 375

 

Music for Early Childhood

Mary Jarinan Nelson and Gladys Tip-
ton. Silver Burdett Company, New

York. $3.20.

llerc is a wonderful book of songs,
carefully selected, beautifully printed
and illustrated, for youngsters of kin-
dergarten and early elementary school
age. It is well organized and includes
separate sections of songs and music
for rhythms, for simple musical in-
struments, for listening to, for telling
stories, for holidays and for singing at
home. Music, words and action are
all given.

Each selection has a short introduc-
tion describing a real-life situation and
how the songs are used in it. These
short prefaces are informal, but of
great value to leaders and teachers of
young children. A classified index is
also very helpful.

lf you deal with young children in
your program—whether in school, in
the recreation center, on the play-
ground or at home—this will be a
book you will never part with. Highly
recommended.

We cannot leave this review without
giving special praise to Lillian Chest-
ney and Ellen Simon, the illustrators.
Their work is not only lovely, but full
of imagination, humor, and under-
standing of childhood.

A Columbia rccord album, Songs
from .lfiisr'c for Early Childhood,
MJV-Ml, $4.55, contains four un-
breakable records of many of the
songs in this hook and should be very

helpful.
Betty White's Teen-Age Dance Book

David McKay Company, New York,
$3.50.

Expressed in words boys and girls
can understand, and filled with warm

376

llO‘V

Publications

Covering the Leisure-time Field

understanding of teen-age points of
view, this book should prove very use-
ful, either to put into the would-be
dancer’s hand or to suggest the ap-
proach for a leader. Specific dance in-
structions with step diagrams are giv-
en for the foxtrot, waltz, Charleston,
lindy, one step, rhumba, mambo, tan-
go, samba, Viennese waltz, polka, Vir-
ginia reel and basic square dance.
Also included are several grand march
formations, play party games, elimi-
nation dances and mixers, as well as
suggestions for organizing dances,
decorations, refreshments, admission
ideas, and a section on etiquette with
straight-from-the-shoulder how-to-do-it
tips.
Vitalized Assemblies
Nellie Zetta Thompson. E. l’. Button
and Company. $2.00.

While this book of two hundred
programs for all occasions is directed
to school people, anyone who is re-
sponsible for a series of meetings will
find it helpful. Miss Thompson’s fun-
damental idea is that school assem-
blies should grow out of the educa-
tional life of the school and encou rage
wide participation, giving students an
opportunity to create, to direct and
produce which may never again he a
part of their life experience. This
same basic principle, of course, applies
to recreation centers.

The chapter on planning programs
for the year contains sound ideas on
types of programs, source for ma-
tcrials, and questionnaire cheek-lists—
to aid in evaluating a program before
deciding whether or not to use it—
which are unusual and helpful. An-
other chaptcr lists many good pro-
gram suggestions for all the holidays
and special occasions and also pro-
grams for special classes and clubs.

       
    

Recreation For Community Living
Participants in National Recreation
Workshop. The Athletie lnstitnte.

Chicago. $1.25 paper.

This “SB-page book pools the ex-
perience and knowledge of thirty lead-
ers, from many fields of recreation, in
a cooperative effort to develop a set of
principles for the guidance of indi-
viduals and agencies interested in rec-
rcation. It represents the findings of a
ten-day national workshop held last
May under the auspices of The Ath-
lctic Institute.

The book is divided into two sec-
tions, the first of which is given over
in part to defining the nature and
scope of recreation and its significance,
not only to the international scene but
also on down the line to the single
human individual. lt also reviews the
historical stages of the development of
recreation from colonial times down to
the present postwar era. and outlines
the great variety of organizational pat-
terns that have developed in our Amer-
ican life over the years. Municipal rec-
rcation is just one of seventeen of these
organizational patterns. The first sec-
tion of the book leaves no doubt in
one’s mind that recreation has truly
become “a basic human need, a part
of daily living in all communities.”

The second section suggests a list of
principles as a helpful guide to agen-
cies or individuals having responsibili-
ty for any phase of recreation. One
set of principles is broken “down for
application to six age groupings; an-
other according to fourteen classifica-
tions of citizen responsibility, and a
third to cover nine principal agency
and organizational groupings. The
fourth and last set of principles, per-
haps the most important of all and
growing out of all the other considera-
tions, covers the field of planning for
recreation, umler the headings of gen-
eral principles, leadership. program,
finance, areas and facilities—George
A. Ncsbi'u, Correspondence and Con-
sullation Service. National liccreation
Association.

COSTUME? TO RENT

CONVENTIONS o PARABES o PAGEANTS
MINSTRELS o PLAYS o OPRAS, ETC.

VAN HORN l- SOI, PIILA. 7, PA.

Cosimo." U [‘31. "31 0 30nd for Idiot.

    

   

ltecamriox

 

Recreation Leadership Courses

HELEN M. DAUNCEY
Social Recreation

ANNE LIVINGSTON
Social Recreation

MILDRED SCANLON
Social Recreation

FRANK A. STAPLES
Arts and Crafts

GRACE WALKER
Creative Recrcation

Sponsored by the National Recreation Association

and

Local Recreation Agencies

November, December 1952 and January 1953

Wichita Falls, Texas
November 10-13

Brownwood, Texas
November 17-18

San Angelo, Texas
November 20-21

Enterprise, Alabama
December 1-4

Columbiana
Shelby County, Alabama

December 8-11

Greenville

Butler County, Alabama
December 15-18

Detroit, Michigan
January 6-7

Flint-Saginaw, Michigan
January 8-9

Grand Rapids. Michigan
January 12-13

Brunswick, Georgia
November 6

State of North Carolina
January 12-29

Albert B. LaGasse, Superintendent of Recreation and Parks

William Brown, Superintendent of Recreation, City Hall

Neil McDonald, Chairman of the Youth Center Board, e/o Insur-
ance Agency, Naylor Hotel

J. R. Snellgrove, City Board of Education

W. W. Elliott, County Superintendent of Schools

Frank H. Echols, County Board of Education

Henry A. Lacy, Chairman, Program Committee, The Michigan
Association of Children’s Institutions, P. O. Box 4746, Detroit,
Michigan
Henry A. Lacy, Chairman, Program Committee, The Michigan
Association of Children’s Institutions, P. O. Box 4746, Detroit,
Michigan
Henry A. Lacy, Chairman, Program Committee, The Michigan
Association of Children’s Institutions, P. O. Box 4746, Detroit,
Michigan

Georgia Recreation Society

James S. Stevens, Jr., Acting Director, North Carolina Recrea-
tion Commission, Education Building Annex, Room 134, Raleigh

(Mrs. Livingston will be on leave of absence during most of this period)

State of Vermont
October 27-November 7

Myrtle Beach, S. C.
November 10-12

Radford, Virginia
November 17

Winston, Alabama
January 5-8

Marshall County, Alabama
January 12-15

Coosa County, Alabama
January 19-22

Washington County, Alabama
January 26-29

Ypsilanti, Michigan
November 17-20

Chattanooga, Tennessee
January 19-29

Durham, North Carolina
November 3-6

Asheville, North Carolina
November 10-20

Niagara Falls, New York
December 1-4

Mrs. A. O. Brungardt, Vermont Director of Recreation, Mont—
pelier

South Carolina Recreation Conference

David Bisset, Superintendent of Recreation, Park and Recreation
Department, Box 1065

C. B. Campbell, County Board of Education, Double Springs,
Alabama

M. G. Rains, County Board of Education, Guntersville
Hubert L. Street, County Board of Education, Rockford

T. B. Pearson, County Board of Education, Chatom

Ross Kressler, Superintendent, Department of Parks and Recrea-
tion, Gilbert Community House, 227 North Grove Street

Francis A. Bish0p, Director of Recreation, Department of Public
Utilities, Grounds and Buildings

Irwin R. Holmes, W. D. Hill Community Center, 1308 F ayetteviIle
Street

Mrs. Lucy Herring, Supervisor of Negro Schools, 91 Broad Street

Myron N. Hendrick, Director of Recreation, Department of Parks
and Recreation

Attcndance at training courses conducted by National Recreation Association leaders is usually open to all who wish to at-
tend. For details as to location of the institute, content of course, registration procedure, and the like, communicate with

the sponsors of the courses as listed above.

' magmas suns

Christmas Fun

CIIRISTMAS BOOK. THE—A beautiful booklet full
of information about Christmas customs and
legends around the world, parties, carols. dec-
orations. gifts and other Christmas ideas and
suggestions ................................................ ..$.50

CHRISTMAS FAIRS (MB 984l—Three-in-one
Christmas program for community centers.
Tells how to set up demonstration booths giv-
ing children and adults ideas for inexpensive

gifts and activities which can be carried on
at home . 

COMMUNITY CHRISTMAS PARTY, A (MP 295)—

Community-wide party suggestions  $.15
MINERS F011 CHRISTMAS DANCES AND PARTIES
(M31425) ................................................ ..$.10
NIGHT BEFORE CHRISTMAS PARTIES WITII A PUR-
POSE (F28) .............................................. ..$.10
YOUR CHRISTMAS PARTY'—Suggestions for plan-
ning novel parties .................................... ..$.15

Christmas Crafts

CHRISTMAS CRAFTS (P l3)—llow to make an
aluminum Christmas tree; how to stencil $.15

CIIIIISTMAS NOVELTIES FOR livERvONEmllow to
make ornaments, decorations and the like $.15

CIIIHSTMAS TIIEE ORNAMENTS FttOM EGG SHELIS
(MB 1133) ............................................. ..$.10

CHRISTMAS WINDOWS AND OTHER DECORATIONS
(l’ 146)—llow to make colorful windows and
decorations for your home and table .... ..$.l0

EAST-TO-MARE CHRISTMAS CARDS" ............ ..S.10

GIFTS AND GADGETS MADE or PAPER (P 128)
-—-ldcas for gifts and decorations ......... .. $.15

JOTOUS NOEL (M81825) —-Christmas decora-
tions made from inexpensive clay, tin cans

and the like ......  .................................... ..$.10 -

MAKE YOUR OWN CIIIIISTMAS TREE ORNAMENTS
(MP 257jr-«Complctc directions for making

unusual ornaments from inexpensive mate-
rials ..................................   $.25

SUGGESTIONS F0lt NovEL CHRISTMAS CARDS
(P 145)r-With excellent illustrations to excite
your imagination ..................................... ..$.10

'I‘RIMMING THE TREE FOR SANTA (M81955)—
Suggcstions for making cornucopias, angels,
stars and other holiday novelties ............ ..$.10

YOU CAN MAKE YOUR CHRISTMAS CARDS (MB
607l—Fourteen ways to success 

Christmas Songs and Services

CANDLE-LIGHTING SERvICE, A (P 18) ........ ..$.10
CHRISTMAS CARNIvAL IN CAROLS AND PANTO-

MIMES (P 133) ........................................ ..$.10
CHRISTMAS CAROL LEAFLETS-—-per 100  $.80

CHRISTMAS CUSTOMS AND LEGENDS AROUND THE
WORLD (P l44)—Told in pantomime form,
will serve as a basic pattern for similar pro-
grams ....................................................... ..S.10

DEDICATION OF A CHRISTMAS TREE" .......... ..$.10

FESTIVAL OF LIGHT“ (P l48)—For Hanukkah
and Christmas. Narrator, carols, pantomime
for a community program .. .................. ..$.10

HERE WE GO A-CAROLING (P 28)—Brief carol
program suggestions for reader and choir $.10

JOY TO THE WORLD (MB 1585)—A pageant for
church, based on the story according to St.

Luke .......................................................... ..S.10

STORIES OF THE CHIHSTMAS CAROLS (P 132)
——:\lso suggestions for “Learn a Carol 3

TREE-LIGHTING SERvICE (MP 417)-—A beautiful
and impressive service which takes but a

half hour to produce ................................ ..S.15

New Year’s and Twelfth Night

CIIOWN YOUR TWELvE MONTHS MERRILI’ (MP

« 265)—:\n unusual twelfth-night party to bring

the season to a close ...................... .. $.10
RING IN THE NEW (P 14)—Cames and decora-
tions for your New Year’s party .............. ..$.l()

WATCH NIGHT PAHTv (MP 3-f-6)—-Games. stunts.
relays and the like .. . .................... .. 3.10

’lteprint from RECREATION.

Available from the National Recreation ASSOciation, 3l5 Fourth Avenue, New York 10, NJ.

!

   
  
  
   
  
  
 
  
 
 
    
   
  
 
   
   
  
 
   
 
   
    
  
   
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
    
   

