 

MARCH, 1952

 

 

_.....: f L? * ' “‘"NTATIOHAL QECRE’ATION Assocmnou - 35 CENTS_
1...“ '  .Y,..;M-ws: r ~a .

   

ng

' gm W“Z(5’A °

Time is FLYING . . .

Soon you will start planning
your summer vacation, and if

you are looking for new ideas,
or

If you want to try something
"different" . . .

WATCH FOR THE NEW

New Mexico State Tourist Bureau

6 '
W W -   v4.
PREPARED BY THE EDITORS OF M” magazine

This special publication, planned to supplement our usual ten issues of RECREATION, will
tell you, your family and your friends how you may have BETTER summer vacations, for LESS
MONEY—at home, in the community and nearby recreation areas, and in the state and na-
tional parks throughout this country. Here is a chance to become familiar with exciting and in-
teresting information on the subiect. Do you know, for instance, that there is an organization
which will give you information on farm vacations; that pack trips in the Eastern mountains
can be arranged for you; what "treats" to plan if you stay at home; what to take on a camp-
ing trip; how to keep your children amused on a long drive? Are you an expert car packer?
Would you like to know about dude ranch visits, wilderness trail rides, or special events in
different parts of the country? Would you like your trip to be an adventure in lealning?

SPRING 1952 O FREE with a new magazine subscription or a renewal . $.50 per COPY

U. S. Forest Service

FREE Offer with new subscription or renew -
al of a subscription to RECREATION mag-
azine will be available for a limited period
of time only so ORDER NOW. Magazine
$3.00—One Year; $5.50—Two Years; $.35

per copy.

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10, N.Y.

 

gmmm, W—WSA. .

dms

“W

  
    

Reg. U. 5. Pat. Off.

Climbing structure

0 No other playground device provides so

much play capacity per square foot of ground
area and per dollar of cost as JUNGLEGYM!

That plus JUNGLEGYM’S safety record

of more than one hundred million child-play-
hours without one single serious accident
are two reasons why you should give

the children of your playground the advantage
of JUNGLEGYM.

Write for Illustrated Bulletin on PORTER’S Streamlined Line that will Save You Money . . . Time

You can rely on PORTER for the basic units you need
for your playground . . .

_.x / ‘ .

 
    

No. 38 Combination Set

Compact, economical unit thot's ideal
for limited ground oreos. Six varieties
of funful, heolthful octivity.

No. 136 Stratosphere See-Sow

Sensationolly new. Gives "ups-o-doisy"
ride Sill/3% higher thon conventionol
see-sow, but with greater sofety.

 

No. 584‘ Playground Bosketboll Backslop
All-steel ion—shaped bank rigidly mount-

. ed on steel mast and braced for per- No. 240 erry,Ga_Raund
No. 105 Six-Swing Set mane“ sew'ce' Will safely occommodote 30 children ol
Sturdy l2-ft. frome held rigidly togeth- one time. Noiseless, no-wobble, no-
er with exclusive Porter fittings make sway operotion. An en-
this a permanent, safe unit. gineering marvel.  ‘

THE .I. E. CORPORATION
OTTAWA. ILLINOIS

 

MANUFACTURERS 0F PLAYGROUND, GYMNASIUM AND SWIMMING PODI. EQUIPMENT

Exclusive MAKERS or THE WORLD-FAMOUS JUNGLEGYM* CLIMBING
Reg.u.s.ear.on. STRUCTURE

 

MARCH 1952 529

(‘Il SVCE OF ADDRESS: Send your new address at
least thirt}r days before the date of the issue with which
it is to take ell'eet. Address: Recreation Magazine, Cir-
eulation Department, 421 Fifth Avenue South Minne-
apolis 15, Minn. Send old address with the new, enelos-
ing if possible your address label. The post olfiee will
not forward eopies unless you provide extra postage.

Duplicate eOpies cannot be sent.

 _  —  . l i I! E  ‘ L‘- ’ :Llle;;.lnv:::l::orld
' ~ i. ‘ - ‘. w  Greatest Athletes
in TRAMPOLINING

By NISSEN — Maker of America's
First Standard TRAMPOLINE

u.s;;.A-M-P-o-Ll-N.E

°Name TRAMPOLINE Reg. U.s. Pat. oa. . h   I - ’ ' ‘ m

'r____ ' ’ 4;
“inseam? I!!! FIJI}? III 2"”! run “
@w n n u o new-nu care 1 . n. I..le e

200 A AVE. NW. CEDAR RAPIDS, IOWA

[EADEHS  
Ilf.®§\$‘ 105%

illlltERIEHEBRAIISBYI?

in the

 

Choice of the Champions in every league

530 RECREATION

MARCH, 1952

Editor, JOSEPH PRENDERGAST
Managing Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON
Business Manager, ROSE J AY SCHWARTZ

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Recreation Administration, GEORGE BUTLER
Program Activities, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

Vol. XLV Price 35 Cents No. 10

On the Cover

Specimen collecting trips are an active part of San
Franeisco’s Junior Museum program, and many
treasures can be mounted, with the aid of a prcss
sueh as these boys are using. Picture by courtesy
of the San Francisco Recreation Commission.

Next Month

Harbinger of summer is the April RECREATION, on-
nuol Playground Issue. Ideas, suggestions, news,
pietures, all designed to help leaders make this
summer a success. “Weave in Some Singing” by
Arthur Todd gives pointers on how to include group
singing in the playground program. The first of
three articles on photography as a hohby appears.
Equipment, safety, leadership techniques receivc
attcntion. Your own plans and projects can get a
boost from the thoughts shared in this issue. Es-
pccially good is “Crafts in the Recrcation Program”
by Viva Whitney.

Photo Credits

Pages 537, 539, 540, Julian W. Smith, Department
of Public Instruction, Lansing, Michigan; 541, Se-
attle Department of Parks; 543, Recreation Com-
mission, Long Beach, California; 545, 546, Yakima
Daily Republic; 555, Ted Shoemaker, Sebring, FIOr-
ida; 557, Art Keil, West Palm Beach News Service;
558, 559, New York University Bureau of Public In-
formation; 560, 561 (101)). Oakland, California,
Recreation Department; 561 (bottom), Arthur Odell,
Oakland; 563, 565, Meriden, Connecticut, Recrea-

tion Department; 573, 579, Richards, Tacoma, Wash-
ington.

RECREATION is published monthly except July
and August by the National Recreation Association,
a service organization supported by voluntary c0n-
tributions, at 815 Fourth Avenue, New York 10,
New York; is on file in public libraries and is
indexed in the Readers’ Guide. Subscn‘ tions $8.00
a year. Canadian agency, G. R. Welc Company,
Ltd., 1149 King Street West, Toronto 1, Ontario;
Canadian subscription rate $8.85. lie-entered as
second-class matter April 25, 1950, at the Post
Office in New York, New York, under Act of
March 3. 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special
rate of postage provided for in Section 1108, Act
of October 8, 1917, authorized May 1, 1924.

Advertising and Production Office: 5Jones Press,
Fifth and Fifth South, Minneapolis 1 , Minnesota.

Space Representatives: H. Thayer Heaton, 415
Lexington Avenue, New York 17, New York;
Mark Minahan, 168 North Michigan Avenue,
Chicago, Illinois; Keith H. Evans, 8757 Wilshire
Boulevard, Los Angeles 5, California.

Copyright, 1951, by the
National Recreation Association, Incorporated

Printed in the U.S.A. 30.2
° Trade mark registered in the U. S. Patent OHice.

 

MARCH 1952

MAGAZINE OF

General Features

 
 
  

THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

C O N T E N T S
People’s Recreation: A Philosophy for Plain Folks

(Editorial), Dr. Arthur Katona .................................... .. 533
RercreatiOII is Fundamental, Joseph Prendergast .......... .. 540
Drama in the Parks—An Experiment,

Grace M. Goodall ........................................................ .. 545
Community Leaders, Use Your Initiativel,

Sherwood Gates .............................................................. .. 553
What’s the Next Move for Our Elderly? .......................... .. 558
Recreation for Older Adults

At Sixty Plus, Allen G. Brailey ...................................... .. 562

Volunteers and Senior Citizens, Mary Elizabeth Bayer 564

A Joint Jamboree, William B. Cook ............................ .. 565
Items Of Note .................................................................... .. 583
Index to Volume XLV, RECREATION Magazine,

April 1951 -March 1952 .............................................. .. 588

Administration
School Camping—As Viewed by the Recreation Director,

Julian W. Smith .............................................................. .. 537
Community Centers, Seattle Style ................................... .. 541
Performance Budget for Recreation,

Jesse A. Reynolds and John A. Donaho ..................... .. 548
Census Figures .................................................................... .. 550
Per Capita Expenditures for Recreation and Parks ...... .. 569
Community Programs Include Service Men. ................. .. 572
Data on Swimming POOlS .................................................. .. 575
A Case for the Recreation Board, George Butler .......... .. 576

Program Activities

Some Thoughts on Being A Recreation Leader,

Helen M. Dauncey .....................................................  543
Come On In—The Dancin’s Fine ................................... .. 551
Day Camp for Oldsters .................................................... .. 560
How TO DO It! Make Your Own Baseball Bases,

Frank A. Staples ...................... ..1 ................................... .. 566
Newspaper Parties Are Still POpular,

Mildred Scanlon .............................................................. .. 567

Arts and Crafts for Recreation at a State University... 570
Make It Yourself: Anyone Can Make a Paper Show,

Taiko Abe; Plan for Easels .......................................... .. 571
A Matter Of Life Or Death, Paul Nelson ......................... .. 574
For Bowling Enthusiasts .................................................... .. 579
Recipes for F un—Musical Mixers ................................... .. 581

Regular Features

Things You Should K110w......        534
Letters ............................................................................... .. 535
Editorially Speaking .......................................................... .. 536

Personnelu—Recreation Training Opportunities,
Garrett G. Eppley, Larry EiseIIberg, Robert Gamble  554

—Recreation Leadership Training Programs .......... .. 578
Recreation News ............................................................... .. 571
Recreation Market News ......... .., ...................................... .. 580
Suggestion Box .................................................................... .. 584
BOOkS Received .................................................................... .. 585
Magazines and Pamphlets ................................................. .. 585
New Publications ................................................................ .. 587
Recreation Leadership Courses ................ ..Inside Back Cover

531

 

 

 

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION

A Service Organization Supported by Voluntary Contributions

 

JOSEPH PRENDERGAST, Executive Director

 

OFFICERS

OrTO T. MALLLRT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Chairman of the Board
[’AUL MOORE, JR.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .First Vice-President
MRS. OGOEN L. MILLS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Second Vice-President
SUSAN M. LEE. .Third Vice-President and Secretary of the Board
AoRIAN M. MASSIE.............   . . . . . ....Treasurer
GUSTAVUS T. KIRRT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Treasurer Emeritus
JOSEPH PRENOERGAST. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Secretary

BOARD OF DIRECTORS

 

HII.OA HARRISON

ROSE JAY SGHwARTz

JOHN J. COLLIER. . . . . . . .
ROIIERT L. HORNE'! . . . . . . .Madison, Wis.

THOMAS E. RIvaRs
ARTHUR WILLIAMS
ALI-'REo H. WILSON

Correspondence and Consultation
Service
VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN
GERTRuoE BORcHARo

GEORGE E. DIGRIE

Recreation Magazine
DOROTHY DONALoSON

Special Publications
MURIEL McGAN N

Personnel Service
WILLARo C. SUTHERLANo ALEREo B. JENSEN
MARY GUBERNAT

New England District

WALoO R. HAINstRTH..BOSTON. MASS.

(Present address . . . New York)
Middle Atlantic District

JOHN W. FAUST. . . . . .East Orange. N. J.
GEORGE A. NESnI'n'. . . .New York, N. ‘1'.

Great Lakes District
. .Toledo. Ohio

Aliiliate Membership

Aniliate membership in the NatiorIal
Recreation Association is open to all non-
profit private and public organizations
whose function is wholly or primarily the
provision or promotion of recreation serv-
ices or which include recreation aS an im-
portant part of their total program and
whose cooperation in the work of the asso-
ciation would. in tbe opinion of the asso-
ciation's Board of DirectorS, furtber the
ends of the national recreation movement.

GEORGE D. BUTLER
ELIZABETH CLIFTON DAVIo J. DUBOIS

Work witb Volunteers

E. BEATRICE STEARNS
MARY QUIRR MARGARET DANRwORTH

Field Department

CHARLES E. REEo JAMES A. MAOISON
GEORGE T. AOAMS HELENA G. How
RICHARo S. WESTGATE

DISTRICT REPRESENTATIVES

Soutbern District

MISS MARION PREECE . . . . .Alexandria, Va.

RALPH VAN FLEET. . . . . .Clearwater, Fla.
WILLIAM M. HAY. . . . . . .Nashville. Tenn.

Midwest District

ARTHUR Tooo. . . . . . . . .Kansas City, Mo.
HAROLo LATHROP . . . . . . . . .Denverll Colo.

Active Associate Membership

Active associate membership in the
National Recreation Association is open to
all individuals who are actively engaged
on a full-time or part-time employed basis
or as volunteers in a nOnprofit private or
public recreation organization and wbose
cooperation in the work of tbe association
would. in tbe opinion of the association’s
Board of Directors. further the ends of the
national recreation movement.

 

F. W. H. A053” . . . . . . . . ...............New York,N.Y. MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON..................Bellpurt, N. Y.

F. GREGG BEHIS...... . . . . . ................Boston,I MaSS. SUSAN M. LEE...... . . . . . . . . . . . . . ......New York. N. ‘1'.

MRS. ROEERT WoooS BLISS . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Washington, D. C. OTTO T. MALLERY. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Philadelphia. Pa.

MRS. ARTHUR G. CUMRIER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jacksonville, Fla. CARL F. MILLIREN . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Augusta, Me.

WILLIAM H. DAvIS . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . .New York, N. Y. MRS. OGDEN L. MILLS. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Woodbury. N. Y.

HARRYP.DAvISON . . . . . . ................NewYork,N. Y. PAUL MOORE, JR.......................Jersey City, N. J.

GA'rLORo DONNELLIY. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Chicago, 111. JOSEPH PRENoERGAST. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Ncw York, N. Y.

MRS. PAUL GALLAGHER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Omaha. Nebr. MRS. SIGMUNo STERN . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .San Francisco. Calif.

RORERT GARRETT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Baltimore. Md. GRANT TITstR-rH . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Norotnn. COnn.

AUSTIN E. GRIErI-rHS. . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . .Seattle, Wash. MRS. WILLIAM VAN ALEN . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Philadelphia, Pa.

MRS. NORMAN HARRowER. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Fitchburg, Mass. J. C. WALSH. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Yonlters, N. Y.

MRS. CHARLES V. HICROX. . . . . . . . . . . . . .MiChigan City, Ind. FREOERIcIt M. WARnURG. . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . .New York, N. Y.
HEADQUARTERS STAFF
Executive Director’s Oliice ReSearch Department Service to States. . . . . .ROBERT R. GAMBLE

Areas and Facilities—Planning and Surveys
ALAN B. BURRITT

H. C. HUTcHINS
LESLIE LvNcH

Katherine F. Barker Mentoriai
Secretary for Women and Giris
HELEN M. DAUNCE'I‘

industrial Recreation. . . . . .C. E. BREwER

Recreation Leadership Training Courses

RUTH EHLERS
MILOREo SCANLON
GRACE WALRER

 

Soutbwest District

HAROLo VAN ARSoALE. . . . . . .Dallas, Tex.

Pacific NortbvveSt District
WILLARo H. SHUMARO. . . .

Pacific Sou tbwest District

LYNN S. RooNE'r. . . . .Los Angeles, Calif.

 

Contributors

Tbe continuation of the work of the
National Recreation Association from year
to year iS made possible by the splendid
cooperation of several hundred volunteer
sponsors throughout the country. and the
generous contributions of thousands of sup-
porters of this movement to bring health.
happiness and creative living to the boys
and girls and the men and women of
America. If you would like to ioin in the
support of tbis movement. you may send
your contribution direct to the association.

—-——-——*——————

The National Recreation Association is a nation-

cies, public and private, to thc end that every child

ANNE LIVINGSTON
FRANR A. STAPLES

. Seattle. Wasb.

wide, nonprofit, nonpolitica] and nonsectarian civic
organization, established in 1906 and supported by
voluntary contributions, and dedicated to the serv-
ice of all recreation executives, leaders and agen-

in America shall have a place to play in safety and
that every person in America, young and old, shall
have an opportunity for thc best and most satisfy-
ing use of his expanding leisure time.

For further information regarding the association’s services and membership, please write to the
Executive Director, National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10, New York.

 

532

RECREATION

ll

PHILOSOPHY should be a guiding

light, an ideal by which men live.
It is just as neccssary for good recrea-
tion as it is for the good life. Without
it, recreation becomes a directionless
hodgepodge, just as life becomcs an
aimless welter.

The kind of philosophy will deter-
mine the quality of play 'and of living.
Most people have some kind of philoso-
phy, whether or not they are aware
of it. Their aims, goals, principles,
ideals, expressed or unexpressed, de-
termine the kind of life they lead. The
pcrson who believes in the Golden
Rule will treat his fellow men quite
differently than the one who thinks
that “anything goes, as long as you
gct away with it.” In sports, he who
tries to play the gamc clean and fair
is of a far different breed than he
who tries to win by hook or crook.

In recreation, the underlying motive
strongly affects the nature of the ac-
tivity and may make the difference
bctween what is wholesome and what
is not. If too much stress is placed on
money-making, therc occurs a build-
up of thrills, scnsations, and stunts
for the sole purpose of increasing
the “gate.” Players, whether hot rod
racers, boxers, or basketball youths,
are sacrificed to draw the crowds. On-
lookers not only become infected with
the discase of “spectatoritis” but suffer
an emotional debasement.

If competition is overly stressed,
then winning becomes an obsession.
Not the enjoyment of the game but
gaining the victory becomes the domi-
nant concern and so dominant that
the results may be appalling.

So, too, when exhibitionism becomes
paramount, then individualistic show-
ing off displaces group sharing. The
folk and square dance may become
mediums for display rather than means
for socializied enjoyment, and snob-
bery tends to elbow out fellowship.

What, then, may be the principles,
aims, ideals—the philosOphy—of peo-
ple’s rccreation?

By peOple’s recreation wc mean the
rccreation of plain folks, of everyday
people, of ordinary neighbors, the kind
that can be enjoyed in common in a
home, a barn, a town hall, or a church
basement. In other words, folks of the
workaday world meet as friends and

MARCH 1952

People’s Recreation

A Philosophy for Plain Folks

A Guest Editorial

neighbors to sing, dance, and play
games together, and side by side to
make beautiful things with their hands.

The Philosophy

I. An important goal should be
that of fellowship. Sociability, friend-
ship, neighborliness, camaraderie——
these are its primary practices. Songs,“
games, dances, and crafts should be
fun, of course, and enjoyed in thcm-
selves, but they should contribute to
the main value which is essentially
spiritual. When people come together
as good friends and neighbors and
share pleasures, their is the fellowship
joy of life.

II. It should be homemade—family-
made, neighbor-made, community-
made. People should learn to sing
songs, make music, play games, dance
dances, and do crafts on their own.
It is surprising how much talent and
leadership plain pe0p1e have if given
a chance. At a community square dance
in a southern Ohio village where
miners and farmers get together for
fun on a Saturday night, folks play
their own music and call their own
squares, just as they dance their own
dances. Men and women take turns
on the orchestra platform, and men
take turns calling. Years ago farmers
carved and decorated their own furni-
ture while their wives spun, wove, and
embroidered beautiful cloths. Their
lovely handiwork today is sold for
high prices as antiques. In those times
pe0ple went ahead and made fine
things with their hands and didn’t he-
moan their lack of “talent” or “genius”
as is done today by many s0phisti-
cated moderns.

Arthur Katona

III. It should be c00perative, not
competitive. People should share their
recreation. The skilled should help the
unskilled, the experienced should im-
part their proficiency to the beginners.
There are so many hectic contests in
these competitive times that people
ought to relax and enjoy each other’s
company and play for fun and not for
keeps.

IV. It should be simple and sincere,
so that everyone may enjoy it. A joy-
ous communal spirit should pervade
activities, and this cannot take place
if the complicated, spectacular, and
tricky intervene. There is no room for
snobbery or exclusiveness in people’s
recreation. thn a recreational ac-
tivity, the dance, for example, is kept
relatively simple, each participant gives
of himself to the rest in a shared en-
deavor; everyone contributes to the
communal spirit, is, indeed, merged
into. it. But when the dance becomes
difficult, the individual dancer con-
centrates on his personal problem and
achievement and becomes isolated from
others.

V. It should be nonprofit, not com-
mercial, not money-making. Too much
recreation today is bought and sold.
Too much stress is put on the “take.”
PeOple’s recreation should be made by
the people who enjoy it, as inexpen-
sively as possible, and, like virtue,
should be its own reward. Its values
are not of the market place but of the

fellowship circle.

 

 

DR. I\AT01\A, a previous contributor to
RECREATION, is an associate professor
of sociology at Colorado Agricultural
and Mechanical College, Fort Collins.

533

 

0 THE ISSUANCE OF A THREE-CENT POST-
AGE STAMP to recognize recreation and
its importance to the happiness of our
people is being promoted by the Bos—
ton Board of Recreation. The board
voted unanimously to have apprOpriate
legislation to this eerct introduced in
the Congress of the United States, and
proposes that this stamp have the like-
ness of the late Joseph Lee, the father
of the American playground. It is the
intention of the board to prosecute
with vigor the passage of this legisla-
tion. Other recreation departments may
want to get behind such action, and
can help hy getting in touch with their
own Congressman.

0 THE RESULTS OF A SURVEY of state-
administered facilities, and the extent
and types of services oerred to com-
munities interested in developing and
administering recreation programs,
conducted by a state interdepartmental
committee, have just been released in
Tennessee. Published by the Bureau Of
Public Administration in cooperation
with the Tennessee Interdepartmental
Committee in Knoxville, under the title
Leisure Hours, copies are now availa-
ble upon request.

0 THE NEw NATIONAL ADVISORY COM-
MITTEE ON PERSONNEL, just appointed
hy Mr. Prendergast, to deal with prob-
lems of recruiting, professional educa-
tion and placement, has met with im-
mediate and enthusiastic response. In
accepting memhership on the eommit-
tee the largest number of persons 011080
the area of “professional education.”
The next largest number stated “no
choice,” advising that all subjects were

534

744m @045 5504.466! Km .

 

equally important and interesting. The
number choosing “recruiting” and
“placement,” however, was not far be-
hind and quite evenly balanced. The
large committee is now being organ-
ized into subcommittees which will
have task forces to deal specifically
with priority subjects in these three
'large areas of concern.

0 A DISPLAY OF PUBLICATIONS of the
National Recreation Association, as
well as advance materials announcing
the new Summer Vacations—U.S.A.,
aroused lively interest at the National

Sportsmen’s Show at the Grand Cen-
tral Palace in New York, February 16
to 24.

0 THE JAPANESE ARTS AND CRAFTS Ex-
CHANGE EXHIBIT, shown at the Na-
tional Recreation Congress in Boston,
is now on the road. So far, it has
visited the recreation departments of
Wichita, Kansas, St. Louis, Missouri,
Rockford, Illinois, Wheeling, West Vir-
ginia. If you want to be on the list
to receive it, for display in your com-
munity, write to Thomas E. Rivers,
National Recreation Association.

0 TIIE NEW MEMBERSHIP DIRECTORY
being published by the National Rec-
reation Association is now on the
press and will be sent to all members
as soon as it is ready.

. THE ONLY CITIZEN,S ORGANIZATION
working with problems connected with
mental health—The National Associa-
tion for Mental Health—each year di-
reets and coordinates National Mental
Health Week. This year’s observance

will take place May 4-10. lf you wish
to be placed on their mailing list, write
the national association at 1790 Broad-

way, New York 19, N.Y.

O TIIE DATES OF TIIE DISTRICT RECREA-
TION CONFERENCE, of New England,
have been changed to May 14-16 in-
stead of May 7-9 as announced in the
February issue of RECREATION. The
conference will be held in Wakeville,
Connecticut.

0 A RESOLUTION recently released by
the American Municipal Association
reads as follows:

Resolved that the American Mu-
nieipal Association urge upon the Fed-
eral Communications Commission the
making of a complete study and sur-
vey of the use of radio and television
for the promotion of cultural, civic
and governmental improvement, to the
end that these new mediums of public
information be not monopolizcd too
much by commercial interests.

0 REQUESTS WHICH ARE BEING RE-
CEIVED for the new pamphlet Recrea-
tion, a New Profession in a Changing
World indicate the immediate need
for this kind of recruiting material.
So far, it is in demand hy recreation
executives, state and university execu-
tives—-for use with high school stu-
dents and college students in career

conferences, and with state hospital
reereation personnel.

Special Services

New quotas for overseas recrea-
tion personnel recently have hecn
announced. The most urgent need is
for women for special service club
work in the Japanese area.

Civilian women also are needed
for eluh work in other overseas

areas. Women, ages twenty-four or

twenty-five, are in demand, too, for
club positions at posts and hases
in all parts of the United States.
Information concerning all special
service Opportunities may be ob-
tained from the Recreation l’erson-

nel Service, National Recreation
Association, 315 Fourth Avenue,

New York 10, New York.

 

RECREATION

. . . 01w Regular Foalures

Sirs:

This morning when my January is-
suc of RECREATION arrived, I imme-
diately turned the pages to find out
what subject was depicted in “Recipes
for Fun,” as this interest was my only
immediate concern. I have since noted
your questioning of its specific interest
and value to the reader, and I very
strongly encourage that this feature be
continued in its present form. I would
also state that I do give greater atten-
tion to the features of “Recreation

Market News,” “Things You Should

Know,” and “How to Do It.” These

are “short and sweet,” and are specifi-
cally practical in application. They give
the information of the latest ideas and
developments.

I feel that of my contacts with maga-
zine publications, RECREATION is the
more coveted and the most inclusive of
both philos0phy and practice. When a
publication conveys pertinent illustra-
tion of recreation needs and also en-

tertaining reading, then a choice peak
has been attained.

ARTHUR F. CLAYTON, Bloomington,
Indiana.

Sclmol Planning

Sirs:

The article on this suhject, which
appears in your January 1952 issue, is
timely and interesting.

1 Would like to add the name of
Birmingham High School, of Birming-
ham, Michigan, as one of the new
schools which was planned for meet-
ing community and recreation needs
as well those which are traditional
in nature. In addition to class and spe-
cial activity sections, a native woods,
four hundred-car parking lots, little
theatre, patio, greenhouse, athletic
area, library. cafeteria, physical educa-
tion unit and lobby are included in the
overall design. This is one way in

which a small city (under 20,000) is
MARCH 1952

 
 
 

     

" :t-   I!"

, y’all/€41?!»

ll 3’ “ 7  I

' I [I (/1  - 7/141:

'1’! [I’ll/{IIIO’VIIIIIIe
zzlgggcé 4-1-2-

     
     
  

 
 

The Magazine of Fe": and Square Dancing
Published by the Folk Dance Federation of California
0 No to six Foil: Dances monthly

0 Latest news on books. records.
current events

0 Four to six square dance cells
each month

F or information or subscription: (82.50 a year) write

Lam-on Hams. Edaor
College of the Pacific. Stockton. California

 

Wildfowl

attempting to meet the needs of a mod-
ern community.

Although the three and one-half
million dollar structure will not be
completed until the natatorium and au-

       

ditorium units are provided. some sec- American

tions of the building will be available

late this winter.  rounds
FRANK WHITNEY, Recreation Direc- ...----""'""‘

   

l

tor, City of Birmingham, Michigan.

 

lliflo luslrlwtion

Sirs:

Congratulations on the article “Rifle
Instruction,” hy A. .I. Schara, which
appeared in your Octoher 1951 issue.
Mr. Schara and the Manitowoc, Wis-
consin, recreation department deserve
a great deal of credit for making it
possible for youngsters in Manitowoc
to obtain careful instruction in the
proper handling of firearms.

Cver increasing numbers of enlight-
ened chiefs of police, like Chief Kup-
lic, have discovered the value of turn-
ing into supervised recreation the na-
tural desire of every youngster to shoot
a gun. It is our earnest hope that
many recreation departments will fol-
low this splendid example.

F. C. DANIEL, National Rifle Asso-

ciation of America.
Suggest ions “’olcmned

Sirs:

I feel that there is need for a
character of some type that could be
adopted as more or less a symbol for
everything recreation-wise through-
out the country. I am enclosing a

piece of paper with nine little uses of
“Mr. Redi-Kilowatt.” This is an ex-

ample of the sort of thing that could
be used nationally. You may recall
that Montclair had the sun flower

which they have used in connection
with their summer activities.

GEORGE T. SARGISSON, Executive Di-
rector, Recreation Promotion and
Service, Incorporated, Wilmington. ,

535

8mm 3mm

Democracy and the Local
Community

In a recent letter to the New York
Herald Tribune, the New York State
Citizens’ Council stated its belief that
the foundation of American life is
strong, united democratic communities.
It is the purpose of the council to help
citizens build such communities. “The
world looks to us. We must provide
not only arms and armies, financial
help and food,” they wrote, “but a
successful example of democracy in ac-
tion. It is in our own local communi-
ties that we can, both as individuals
and as groups, best demonstrate the
power of our way of life.

“This must be more than an easy
statement of philos0phy. Action is de-
manded as a result of a personal shoul-
dering of responsibility and a hard-
thinking-through of the issues involved.

“The challenge to all who would
fight for survival is in the local com-
munity. Civil defense; programs for
servicemen; programs for workers in
defense communities; morale pro-
grams; information centers for serv-
icemen, for transients and for new
workers; citizen action against infla-
tion, against discrimination and segre-
gation; citizen action for better hous-
ing, better recreation, better health
services, better schools, better control
of traffic, better provision for the spir-
itual needs of the individual; citizen
action for a better informed citizenry
not only on these local community
problems but also on international
and world problems—these are but
some of the activities demanding eiti-
zen participation with maximum local
initiative.

“Solution to community problems
will not be effective without commu-
nity planning and organization. But
the value and acceptance of such plan-
ning is itself dependent on the parti-
cipation of all elements in the com-
munity.

“We must work to create in the peo-
ple around us, our friends and neigh-

536

bors, an adequate realization of the
multiple challenges which confront us.
We all need more knowledge and
more ‘know-how’ to do the job which
lies ahead. The basic issue we face is,
indeed, how our nation, our states
and our local communities can unitedly
strive to provide security and freedom
without, in the process, weakening or

corrupting the democracy by which
we live.”

Prejudice ‘*

“I do not love thee, Doctor F ell
The reason why I cannot tell;
But this alone I know full well
I do not love thee, Doctor F ell.”

Are you prejudiced? Yes. Without
even knowing you this answer is likely
to be right. Most people have an un-
reasoned, preconceived judgment or
opinion about something. It may be a
strange, unknown food, it may be
Open-toed shoes or petunias. It may be
a next-door neighbor, all Catholics,
all Protestants, all Jews or all Negroes.

If pre-judgment is limited to a new
food, the one who pre-judges deprives
himself of the chance of discovering
something he might enjoy. When the
pre-judgment is made of an individual
solely because that individual belongs
to a particular group, the one who pre-
judges is not only narrowing his own
horizons but is hurting others.

Prejudice toward a fellow man some-
times starts with a feeling of inse-
curity. In this case it is an attempt
on the part of the prejudiced to make
himself feel stronger by being able
to label another as inferior, even
though the motive is not recognized
by the prejudiced person. Such preju-
dice is often found in the immature
and the unstable-the person who is
not sure of himself.

No child is born with prejudice but
he can “catch” it. Prejudice is conta-
gious and a child is particularly sus-

.*Fron1 “You Can Do Something About

Prejudice,” by Gail Montgomery, in The
Camp Fire Girl.

ceptible. Sincc he has not yet ma-
tured, his powers of discrimination
and judgment are limited. In his de-
sire to feel secure and loved hc adopts
the attitudes of those about him. He
is quick to recognize and follow a cue,
particularly if that cue is given by a
parent, a teacher or a group leader
whom he loves. A leader of young peo-
plc, one who is loved and looked up
to, can do much to establish attitudes.

To help anyone else overcome preju-
dice, you must first start with your-
self. Know and understand basic facts.
Some suggested reading material to
be used as a starter is listed:

The Races of Mankind, Ruth Bene-
dict and Gene Wcltfish, Public Aiiairs
Committee, 22 East 38th Street, New
York, 20c; To Secure These Rights,
President’s Committee on Civil Rights,
United States Government Printing
Oilice, Washington 25, D. C., $1.00;
Sense and Nonsense about Race, Ethel
J. Alpenfels, Friendship Press, New
York, 25c; The Mature Mind, H. A.
Overstreet, W. W. Norton and Com-
pany, Incorporated, New York, $3.50;
America Divided: Minority Group Re-
lations in the United States, Arnold
and Caroline Rose, Alfred A. Knopf,
New York, $4.50.

Playgrounds “

Playgrounds serve several purposes
which are important in the character
building and deveIOpment of children.
Money wisely spent on well supervised
playgrounds is an investment in one
of the greatest resources of any com-
munity——the children.

At the playground a child learns to
get along with other children. He
learns the rules of give and take which
are part of living. He learns . . . a
regard for public property and equip-
ment which should always be valua-
ble to him. The various skills and
crafts are a supplement to the educa-
tion received in the classroom.

In these days of crowded industrial
cities and streets filled with speeding
autos, playgrounds become almost a
physical necessity. Children who learn
to use their leisure time to good ad-
vantage on well supcrvised playgrounds
will grow into adults who can do the
same thing.

*From the Tacoma News Tribune.

RECREATION

Each group takes some kind of hike. Campers learn to co-
operate as a team in preparing the meals and cleaning up.

School 1
Camping

(gigs

ECREATION and education have found common ground.
B. This new meeting place is the “good earth,” with its
wooded hills and sky. These resources and facilities are
available, without rent, for all those who seek adventure-
some learning and genuine recreation. Unlimited play-
grounds and outdoor classrooms beckon all who search
for new frontiers. At long last, educational and recrea-
tional leaders are beginning to go “back to the .land” and
look to the woods for new fountains of learning and areas
for recreation. In this age of city dwellers and machines,
and a tempo of activity that is foreign to a pioneer people,
the advent into the out-of—doors may well be the safety
valve for modern living.

To provide opportunities for all children, youth and
adults to live, learn and play in the out-of-doors will re-
quire the combined efforts and cooperation of all the
agencies and individuals charged with the recreation of
people and the management of lands and facilities. Im-
portant to participants in this teamwork will be schools
and recreation leaders whose primary interest will be the

 

AUTHOR is Assistant Superintendent, Health, Physical Edu-
cation, Recreation, School Camping and Outdoor Education,
the Department of Public Instruction, State of Michigan.

MARCH 1952

 

Julian W. Smith

MWéeaaedda/tée

better living of our people, with little concern whether the

label be “education” or “recreation.” The spectacle of

young people and their teachers in quest of new learning
experiences in the open, of contented families 011 camping
trips, of summer day-camps away from hot pavements and
crowded streets, of winter sport centers, of the solitary
hunter or fisherman—should cause recreation leaders and

teachers to join hands in a common effort to provide such
experiences.

School Camping and Recreation

How then shall the recreation director view the rapidly
unfolding program of school camping and outdoor educa-
tion? ' If he has a sincere interest in a broad program of
community recreation, this will be the long awaited op-
portunity to bring all the people in his community into the
possession of their great out-of—door resources. A brief
look at the camping and outdoor education program, as
it is developing, will reveal the common purposes of educa-
tion and recreation.

The concepts of school camping and outdoor education
are simple. They are based on the premise that experiences
in the out-of—doors are the rightful heritage of every child
and adult, that many things can be learned better in such
surroundings, that these simple and direct experiences are

537

 

School camping is carried on in all seasons. Herc elementary
campers take part in a new recreation activity—ice fishing!

essential in the growing-up process and that the skills,
attitudes, and appreciations thus attained are basic for a
full and balanced life.

The more than fifty schools in Michigan, for example,
which provide camping as a part of the regular school
curriculum, and the many others that offer outdoor educa-
tion activities, make it possible for this generation to have
roots in the land, experiences in social living, healthful
living, purposeful work, outdoor recreational living, and a
variety of other outdoor activities that relate to the ac-
cepted objectives of education.

Teachers and students go to camp together, mostly on
school time. At best, the schools can only hope to provide
a brief, initial experience that will deve10p desires for
more extensive pursuits in that direction. In school camps,
the parents still retain their responsibility for the feeding
of their children, by providing a small fee to cover the
cost of food. Since the program is educational, the schools
accept their full rights and privileges for instruction, and
the many community and social agencies show their in-
terest by financial support and cooperation when needed.
School camping, as it is developing, is a part of general
education and belongs to the whole school. Recreation is
one of the important areas of interest and is so interwoven
into the fresh and venturesome educational experiences
that it cannot be separated from a variety of other learn-
ings that are unique. In visiting a school camp typical of
those in Michigan, one would find boys and girls and
their teachers roaming over hills and in the valleys, in
quest of new experiences. They plan together, play to-

538

gethcr, and work together in a camp community where
the specialty is children. They learn good health by prac-
tice and develop strong bodies through natural exercise
and work. The facts of science, social science, and other
subject areas become functional when involved in purpose-
ful work and conservation projects—such as forestry opera-
tions. land surveys. soil erosion activities, game and fish
management, building projects, park improvement and
others. Such a program, interspersed with a pursuit of in-
dividual and group interests—such as wood crafts, music,
dramaties, fire building, eeremonials, outdoor sports and
numberless other activities—constitutes community educa-
tion at its best. The recreation director and his department
find their places as a part of the community school staff,
whether the camp is directly under the auspices of the
school during the school year or whether it is carried on
during the summer by the recreation department.

School Camping vs. the Recreation Director

In school camping, recreation directors will find:

1. Opportunities for the deveIOpment of basic skills,
appreciations and attitudes for outdoor recreation, thus
furnishing a foundation for the broader community rec-
reation program.

2. An opportunity to reach a better understanding of
the care and use of natural resources and facilities in an
outdoor program covering parks, recreation areas and all

 

Experience indicates that fun and learning go well together.
Camp jobs require application, coordination and c00pcration.

kinds of public lands. Participation in such a program
results in a better concept as to how outdoor resources and
facilities can and should be protected to provide maximum
benefits for all.

3. An opportunity to serve as team members in a broad
program of education and to furnish educational and
supplemental camping opportunities. The school camping
program fits well into the total recreation program of the
community.

4. Encouragement of common use and cooperative plan-
ning in the development of outdoor recreational and

RECREATION

educational areas. Resident camping opportunities become
an essential part of the park-school campus, available for
both the educational and recreational program of the com-
munity.

5. The encouraging cooperation of many agencies, par-
ticularly those concerned with youth and resources. This
fits into the structure for community education and com-
munity recreation, providing the greatest variety of
opportunities with the available facilities.

The Common Goal

There can be no doubt but that the communities in
America need to turn to the open spaces for better living.
The refreshing influence of the simplicity of the out-of-
doors is needed both in education and recreation. It will
take the best leadership in education and recreation to
help attain the goal of outdoor experiences for every boy
and girl in America; and for every adult to find the kind
of experience to meet his own needs. Wherever the interest
emerges—min the schools, in the recreation departments, in
the homes, in the churches, or in any other expression of
a democratic people-nit will behoove all those interested in
community service to join forces. The turning to the land
and its simplicity, whatever the activity may be, may con-
stitute the common mooring for which America is seeking.

Planning the Camping Program“

At the time of this writing, April 1951, upwards of sixty
schools in Michigan provided a week or more of camping
as a part of a school program during the school year. Thus
far, most of the schools have been able to find existing
facilities that are satisfactory for initiating a program, but
as time goes on and as the program is extended to greater
numbers of children by many more schools, it will be
necessary to plan for the development of additional fa-

The crafts programs benefit by
taking advantage of the Oppor-
tunity to “make the most of”
material gathered near at hand.

‘3 Reprinted from Community
School Camping by permis—
sion of the Michigan Depart-
ment of Public Instruction.

MARCH 1952

cilities. Citizens’ committees, made up of civic leaders,
should be involved with the school staff and technicians
in planning a program and providing needed facilities.
The trend for larger administrative units in education is
significant in camping. In many instances, it would seem
desirable for a number of schools to plan a program
cooperatively, using common facilities and sharing costs.

In the event that a community or group of communities
plan to purchase and develop a camp, it would be advisable
to consider all the agencies having camping programs.
Planning should he done with public land-holding agencies,
such as the Department of Conservation, National Park
Service, U. S. Forest Service, and others, so that a com-
munity school campsite might be enhanced by being ad-
jacent to large areas of publicly-owned lands. A c00pera-
tive community plan by schools and other agencies would
insure continuous use of a facility. The camp could have
constant use throughout the year by schools, by organiza-
tions, by teachers for in-service training, and by many
other community groups. In many instances, the state
department of conservation, of parks, and other land—hold-
ing agencies should build group camps available for school
use. This may be the most effective way to secure the best
use of parks and recreation areas already provided.

The deve10pment of a camp by the school and community
groups would be an educational process in itself. With
proper planning, the selection of a site and its deve10pment
and the construction of buildings could be done as a part
of the community educational program, utilizing school
shops, science departments, art groups, other school de-
partments, and interested organizations and individuals.
It has already been observed that some school camps which
are Operated on a year-round basis have proven to be the
most economical school facility. Such camps have been in

 

539

Expert instruction is given to
Michigan boys and girls in the
correct, safe use of firearms.
Practice is under supervision.

constant use, far exceeding the use of most school build-
ings. As the program increases and as larger numbers of
students are involved, there should be less need for addi-
tional school building programs. The development of a
community school camp could well be an enterprise which
would enlist the best COOperation of the community.
School camp planning has a natural evolution. The
finest facilities result from placing first things first while
the camp is heing developed. There are certain aspects

 

of planning that must precede others. In future camp

planning, three fundamental aspects of the problem need
to be considered: (1) selecting the site, (2) planning the
site, and (3) planning the buildings. Although each of
these will need individual planning, they will also need to
be hrought together to provide for a full and complete
program. A more careful inspection of each of these three
phases will aid in understanding how they can produce the
most permanent and useful physical plant.

Recreation Is Fundamental

“Recreation is a positive life-enriching experience. It
engenders knowledge, habits, and attitudes that play a part
in determining character and personality. It brings change
and thereby a fresh viewpoint toward life. It brings
relaxation and thus better efficiency in facing appointed
tasks. It brings understanding of other people and thus
contributes to our democratic way of life. Being a pur-
poseful experience, it brings the application of new talents
and skills to old problems. If these things be true, then
it is highly important that opportunity be afforded for
enjoying recreational experiences in a wholesome environ-
ment such as will make possible the realization of these
values in fullest degree.

“The values of recreation can be obtained through the
use of both organized and unorganized resources. General-
ly well known are the recreational uses of parks, camps,
playgrounds, libraries, community centers, youth-serving
agencies, and schools. Less often recognized resources,
perhaps because their primary purpose is not recreational,
are the home and family, the woods and fields, community
life, and even the individual himself. A person may seek
out the recreational resources within himself and his im-
mediate environment on his own initiative or he may need
to be shown the possibilities that exist. Nor is the use of
organized resources substantially different. Most people

540

need to be educated to the recreational possibilities that
lie ready to their hand.

“Historically the schools have recognized little responsi-
bility for recreation as part of the educative process until
relatively recent years. But the recreational outcomes of
education have been given increasing consideration by
school people both in the building of curriculums and the
planning of school plants. The teaching of reading, music,
art, literature, domestic science, industrial arts, natural
science, dramatics, and physical education is rich with
possibilities for awakening recreational interests. For
fewer people, each of the other school subjects has similar
recreational possibilities. School assemblies, clubs, intra-
mural sports, and school camping all offer means of
achieving the desired ends. It is significant that not one
of the school subjects is considered a ‘recreation’ subject,
all of them being included in the curriculum primarily for
their other educational values. The relatively newer em-
phasis on school clubs, intramural sports, and school
camping gives evidence of the impact of recreation on
educational thinkingfi

Excerpts from “RecreatiOn ls Fundamental” by Joseph
Prendcrgast, Executive Director of the National Recrea-
tion. Association, in Public Health Nursing, April 1951.

RECREATION

COMMUNITY CENTERS

 

New, modern Seattle Heldhouse has striking doorway and win—
(low space, IS one of c1ty's fourteen busy community centers.

UPSTAIRS, a community symphony orchestra—of doctors,

housewives, brick layers—-—happily tootles away under
the direction of a volunteer conductor. Next door, a group
of businessmen labors over plans for a community fair
and carnival. In the gym, a hard, fast basketball game is
in progress and a Boy Scout troop holds its weekly meeting
in a large social room a few doors away. In the basement,
scores of young girls watch intently while a dancing
teacher steps off the measures of a round dance.

Saturday night in Bedlam? No, Saturday night in a
Seattle community center. Not an unusual Saturday night,
either. These community centers, called fieldhouses, hum
with activity every night of the week. A glancc at the
daily schedule of any one of the city’s fourteen fieldhouses
will show an' infinite variety of activities, from ceramics
classes to high school dances, going on every hour of the
day.

Seattle’s community center program is probably further
advanced than in other cities of comparable size within
the state. Superintendent of Parks Paul V. Brown believes
there are two reasons why his department must concen-
trate on these programs: 1) Seattle’s long, wet winters
which force indoor recreation, and 2) the geOgraphical
division of the city into tight, competitive neighborhoods.

MARCH 1952

Seattée Stage

When the city was small, both in size and
population, community concerns were submerged
in the larger problems of the city as a whole,
but as the city grew, neighborhood problems took
on more importance. Community clubs came
into being, dedicated to the fostering of unity of
purpose among neighbors for the good of the
community.

These clubs grcw quickly. In a short time, a
neighbor’s home was no longer big enough to
hold the membership, so the members turned to the only
neighborhood buildings with’enough space to house them
—the fieldhouses. The recreation directors welcomed the
community clubs, and were more than glad to provide the
needed space.

Projects designed to stimulate interest in community
husiness districts have also received sympathetic coopera-
tion from the park department. An example is that of the
Magnolia Carousel. Magnolia is a thriving district of the
city—indeed almost a city itself. Each year its merchants
sponsor a fair and carnival, called The Carousel, at which
neighborhood residents can compete in games of skill for
small prizes. This is a big affair in the district. Thousands
turn out for it and, at that time, the Magnolia fieldhouse
resembles fair day at the county seat.

Other districts—such as University, West Seattle and
Ballard—have taken up the idea, and now sponsor similar
affairs in the fieldhouses.

Mothers of pre-school age children have banded together
in cooperative play groups, to provide nursery school
training for their youngsters. More than a few of these
groups hold their daily meetings in fieldhouses. _

With the cooperation and enthusiastic help of neighbor-
hood groups, parties that attract hundreds of children and
adults are staged during holidays. Last year‘s Christmas
program was a particularly ambitious undertaking for the
district supervisors. Each of the city’s fieldhouses put on
two parties—an evening affair for adults, an afternoon
party for children. Carol singing, games, movies, Yule log
ceremonies highlighted the adult gatherings; Santa Claus

541

and the distribution of gifts and candies donated by local
merchants were featured for the children.

These holiday parties pay off in a tangible way. In 1949,
the Seattle Police Department was plagued by more than a
hundred calls, owing to the Halloween shenanigans of
youngsters. ln 1950, the number was considerably les-
sened, and in 1951 the number of complaints fell to less
than half of the 1949 figure.

Police officials give full credit for the gratifying change
to the fieldhouse activities on Halloween night. The parties
were made so attractive to the youngsters that they forsook
roaming the streets in order to attend them.

Normally, teen-agers shun affairs organized and ad-
ministered by adults. They conceive of themselves as
grown up, and resent the patronizing attitude of some of
the adult groups solicitous for their welfare.

Happily, Seattle’s district recreation supervisors and the
Parent Teacher’s Association recognize this state of mind.
The frequent dances held for high school students are
organized by the students themselves. They do all the work
involved with decorations, food, music, publicity and mete
out the punishment to transgressors of the unwritten moral
code they have established. As a consequence, teen-agers
Hock to the dances. The annual All-City High School Dance,
held in the civic auditorium, draws thousands of students.

Attendance figures for the fieldhouses mark their popu-
larity and usefulness. Annual attendance touches the two
million mark, in a city of just over half a million popula-
tion. One center alone clocked a 1950 attendance of 173,-
000. The oldest fieldhouse, Ballard, constructed in 1909,
had a 1950 attendance of over 150,000.

Any individual or group may use the fieldhouse. City
charter stipulations, however, rule out religious or political
meetings. Groups who close their meetings to anyone but
members must pay a small service fee. This policy, laid
down by the Board of Park Commissioners, does not ex-
tend to character-building agencies such as Boy and Girl
Scouts, however.

An excerpt from the park board’s statement of policy
011 the charges explains the reasoning behind them:

“It shall continue to be the basic policy of the board
to provide such facilities, services and opportunities as
may be made available for the enjoyment of the general
public, without payment of additional charges . . . However,
where a user desires an exclusive privilege or special
service, the board reserves the right to impose a service
charge to compensate the general public for the use of its
facilities . . .” However, despite the ever-larger appropria-
tions by the city council for fieldhouse construction and
maintenance, despite the emphasis put on this program by
the park department, a recent survey showed that fewer
than half the city’s communities have class A fieldhouses
available for use.

The survey finding was a rude shock to the park depart-
ment. A large portion of the annual budget was devoted
to fieldhouses. To spend more would have meant cutting
down on other vital services. Yet not to spend more was,
in essence, a discrimination against those communities
without fieldhouses—a majority of the city’s districts.

542

The only possible solution was a coordinated, coopera-
tivc program with the city’s school system. The schools
had long wanted to provide more recreation facilities for
students, but they, too, had been hamstl'ung by finances.
It was felt that a joint enterprise between the park and
school boards could accomplish the required enlargement:
and a joint staff committee was appointed.

An instance of how the idea has worked out is the new
Laurelhurst community center. A city planning commis-
sion survey showed that the district badly needed enlarged
facilities. The Laurelhurst community club agreed with
the finding and put its weight behind a request for more
space. The joint park-sehool staff committee, meeting each
week, ironed out details of financing, construction, adminis-
tration and maintenance. In May 1950, contracts were
signed and construction begun.

The total cost of enlarging of facilities was $128381.
Of this amount, the school board paid $49,120.51; the
remainder 'was paid by the park board.

Under this cooperative scheme, the Laurelhurst school
gym was enlarged, apparatus was added and social rooms
provided. The facilities have had steady use ever since.
During the school day, the school board is in charge, and
from three to ten pm. the park department takes over.
Saturdays and holidays the facilities are under the park
department management from nine a.m. to midnight.

The statement of intention drawn up by the park-school
board joint committee makes clear the basis for the new
cooperation:

“It is the general intent of this agreement that two public
agencies join in the construction and operation of a public
building, each paying its just and fair share of the costs
prorated as to use of facilities required. It is further in-
tended that all such joint use shall be exercised in an
efficient and economical manner so that such public service
may be extended to the largest possible number.”

The efficiency and economy of the joint system has been
a joy to both school and park boards, and to the city
council; and the community has been supplied with the
facilities it needed without having to look sourly on an
increased tax schedule.

Seattle’s community center program has its-troubles.
There are continuous problems: complaints from communi-
ties without class A fieldhouses; demands for programs the
department cannot finance or staff; grumbling by a few
groups who feel themselves ill-used when they are charged
for special services.

In general, however, the program moves along smoothly.
The cooperation of community groups is essential to the
progress, and Parks Superintendent Brown spends much
time meeting with such groups. District recreation super-
visors are instructed to offer as much assistance as the
department can give, and often go out of their way to be
helpful.

The department’s work in the community, and other
programs, has made it the third largest city department.
In time, it may well become the largest, bringing to every
citizen the recreation so desperately needed in these days
of tension and uncertainty.

RECREATION

Some Thoughts
onlhing
a Recreation

Leader

‘Mt TYPE OF LEADERSHIP involves re-
f sponsibility, but I can think of few
areas where the responsibility is greater
or where the successes and failures
may be more far reaching than in the
profession of recreation.

Here leaders are dealing with peo-
ple who come of their own free choice
and who remain only if they find the
program interesting and the leadership
of high quality. Some of these people
come with a definite purpose in mind.
It may be to learn or participate in a
specific skill—arts and crafts, physi-
cal activities, dramatics or dancing;
it may be to have fun and sociability

MISS DAUNCEY, the Katherine F. Bark-
er Memorial Field Secretary for Wom-
en and Girls, is one of NRA’s training
specialists in social recreation.

MARCH 1952

with others of their own age group; it
may be to belong to a group, a cluh or
a team.

Others don’t know what they want
but are hoping for new experiences,
for recognition and for an opportunity
for success in some phase of the pro-
gram.

Whether the child, the youth or the
adult finds these things on the play-
ground, in the community center, the
school building or on the playheld
depends entirely upon whom he finds
there as leaders. He may receive exact-
ly what he came for—no more—or he
may get the “extra plus” things which
come from contact with a person of
real character and worth.

It is trite to say that we need real
leaders now as never before—~but it is
true.

The young man or young woman
leader who has no interest except to
put on a good performance in some
field in which he is highly skilled is
not needed nor should he hold a posi-
tion on a recreation staff today.
Leaders are needed whose main interest
is in people and whose most important
concern is for what is happening to
the individuals with whom they work.

This means that we are getting away
from mass activities as a criteria of
success and are evaluating our pro-
grams not so much in terms of thou-
sands as in terms of a really good job

with perhaps hundreds.

It is high time this change took
place and I‘hope that re‘education of
recreation boards and city officials has
accompanied the change. Suppose we
take a look at the importance of good
leadership.

A summer playground may be a
place where hordes of little barbarians
let off steam for eight or ten weeks—
where nothing very constructive hap-
pens and where in a few weeks (or
days) the timid, insecure child has
decided to stay at home or play in the
streets for the rest of the summer, be-
cause he hasn’t a chance with the
rougher ones, and the playground

leader never seems to notice him.

Helen Dauncey

The leader does not have any new
ideas and each day is like the one pre-
ceding. It really does not make much
difference whether or not anyone
comes.

Contrast this with a playground
where there is always something in-
teresting going on—a tournament, a

 

A Long Beach, California, student in
crafts proudly shows work to leader.

special event, a surprise for everyone.
You can’t stay at home because you
might miss something good. Every
week there are new games, new songs
or different crafts.

The leader knows all the children
by name and knows a little bit about
each one. She sees that everyone gets
a fair chance. She is fun and jolly and
you like to be with her. She makes
you feel proud of your playground and
she counts on you to make it a success.

The difference in these two pictures?
Leadership. A teen-age program may
be anything but a good social ex-
perience. There may be cliques who
run evcrything and try to keep the
others out.

You go and dance (if you know
how) but if you don’t, you just sit
and watch. You may play tennis (if
you know how) but watch if you don’t.
That is all there is to do.

No adult asks you to work on any
project which is interesting, yet they

543

keep saying teen-agers are self-cen-
tered.

No one finds out what you really
think about things or asks you for sug-
gestions for programs. It is all so
dull—no excitement, or adventure or
glamour in any of it. It is hardly
worth the bother of walking to the
community center Friday and Satur~
day nights.

Contrast this with an attractive
room which is a real social center.
There is a leader whom you really
like, and you know she likes you, for
she takes time to visit with you._

When she sees that a few people
seem to be having a good time and the
rest are left out, she quickly does
‘ something to bring everyone into the
I group.

She has committees who work along
with her. She gets interesting com-
munity people to come and help with
special programs. She finds out who
the boys and girls are who have special
abilities and uses them.

There is nothing routine about the
program. There are theme dances, a
mock track meet, a progressive games
party, a radio show, a play, a cook-
out, a party for parents—always some-
thing to work on.

The connnunity is mighty proud of
the teen-agers because of the many
ways they have helped on community
projects and the nice things they have
done for special groups.

The difference between the two pro-
grams? Good leadership. Take any
part of a recreation program for any
age group, in any setting, and you can
draw your own contrasts.

Perhaps by this time you are asking,
l“Well, where do you find these para-
gons?” The answer is, “In no one
place.” They may be men and women
who have come up through the ranks
in your organization; they may have
come from school work; from the field
of physical education; from group
work; from your local college or uni-
versity; from camp work; from some
private agency; or from some of the
fine schools which are now graduat-
ing majors in recreation.

The important thing is that you will
recognize them by certain basic quali-
ficationsr—nlany of them not required
for or indicated by a college degree.

544

These qualities are:

1. Good health, energy, enthusiasm
and a sincere interest in people. i

2. The quality of being emotionally
adult. (This is not necessarily
related to the number of birthdays
one has had.) A young person
may possess it and an older per-
son show great lack of it.

3. A sense of humor.

4. Imagination, resourcefulness and
adaptability.

o. Courage to live up to standards.

6. Good taste in dress, speech and

behavior, and an innate sense of
the fitness of things.

7‘3

The capacity for putting one’s
self in the other person’s shoes.

Sincerity.

p.03

Calmness and an inner poise.

10. Willingness to learn from others
by listening.

11. A sense of proportion and the
ability to separate the important
from the unimportant things.

12. A real desire to keep learning and
to read and study the new findings
in the field of human relation-
ships.

13. Unlimited patience.

14. A willingness to be democratic in
practice as well as in theory.

15. The ability to try to understand
standards other than his own per-
sonal ones.

Men leaders should be interested in
promoting social phases of recreation
as well as athletic events and should
feel a real reSponsibility for planning
and working with both boys and girls.

The younger boys need guidance
and help before they are ready for
organized team games. The teen-age
boys need to feel a leader’s approval
if they desire to experiment with music,
drama, crafts, square dancing and
social programs. The man who himself
feels insecure if he gets outside of his
athletic setting may unconsciously
pass this feeling on to others, to the
detriment of the total program.

Women recreation leaders need to
spend more time in working out the

kind of program which will help girls

in setting up some goals for the fu-
ture, and in understanding their role
as women in the world. They need to
be ready to give wise and understand-
ing counselling if and when it is
needed.

A good woman recreation leader
can influence the thinking and be-
havior of girls where the home and
school may be failing in this respect.

Working with pe0ple is the hardest
job in the world but also the most
rewarding. It behooves leaders to
check regularly 011 themselves. To be
vital and sensitive to the needs of peo-
ple the leader must take ti me to refresh
himself, or the day will come when the
job will no longer be fun and the
leader will have little to give.

Few recreation people can find
enough time in which to do this, but
there are ways of budgeting time so
that a relatively short Span can bring
that sense of refreshment.

Reading a book, listening to music,
working a garden, playing golf, going
to a play or movie, pursuing a hobby,
attending a lecture, visiting with
friends, taking the family on a picnic.
going fishing—all these and a hundred
more are the things which renew the
spirit.

There is something radically wrong
if the recreation leader who believes
in these activities for other people does
not see the need for them for himself.

ls it not possible for the leader to
become physically, socially and
spiritually undernourished?

When the whole subject of recrea-
tion is more related to living and less
to mere leisure, perhaps more leaders
will find time for these things and
have no guilty feeling of leaving some
things undone.

Perhaps another answer is to share
responsibility with others and make
use of more volunteers in the program
in spots where they can be most ef-
fective.

Time out for lunch with a service
club or serving on a community com-
mittee for something not connected
with the job may do more to sell your
work and your program than several
days spent at your desk.

Let’s keep all the good leaders we
have and make a real effort to dis-
cover new ones!

RECREATION

 

Against leafy, park background, Prince Pat
Campbell assists Cinderella Judy Merchant
to rise from curtsy.

LIKE the ingredients of a well-filled club sandwich, Junior

Programs and the Metropolitan Park District combined
their talents, money and physical assets for a summer of
fun for Yakima, Washington children. When the drama
organization offered the experimental idea of an outdoor
formal theatre, the short-of-funds park department jumped
at the opportunity.

The preceding year the two organizations had shared
the cost of hiring a creative dramatics teacher. Originally
Junior Programs had been financed by donations from
civic organizations, but in 1951 they found that they had
money left from the season’s productions, and now it is
entirely self-supporting from ticket sales for each season’s
programs.

These programs are made up of plays presented by tour-
ing companies which have been highly recommended by
other drama groups. Occasionally, local artists or mem-
bers of the high school, junior college or little theatre,
are used.

Since Junior Programs is a non-profit organization, any
treasury surplus at the end of each year is turned back to
city children in some form of drama, music or art. Mem-
bers agreed that the summer was a logical time to try an
experiment of using child participation in plays for chil-
dren.

Therefore, enthusiastic representatives of the Yakima
group sought ideas from the University of Washington
drama department, and spoke to heads of park and recrea-
tion programs in larger cities. Response to their inquiries
always indicated the same story—predictions of no time,
or insuflicient funds to pay for trained personnel.

 

MRS. GOODALL is an active member of “Junior Programs.”

MARCH 1952

Grace M. Goodall

DRAMA in the PARKS

An Experiment

I

 

At this point, members turned to their own group to
find the talents that would enable them 'to carry out their
project. It was decided that Mrs. Raymond Miller would
take over as director and be assisted by Miss Francine
King, a drama student. Other members offered their time
and skills and soon the fantasy “Cinderella” began to take
shape. It was well into May when this transpired and the
group had to move rapidly.

Costume and set designing, as well as publicity 'and
business angles, were handled by members. Through the
cooperation of schools, registration blanks were given out
to students in the fourth, fifth and sixth and junior high
school grades. These initial sheets described the play,
stressed the time-consuming job of rehearsals, and asked
for both parental and teacher signatures—the latter further
being asked for comments as to whether the student pos—
scssed good health, attitude, dependability and like traits.

An early June date, just before school let out, was set
for casting and the youngsters met with the adults in the
parks. About seventy-five children turned out the first day
and each was given the opportunity to read a part, or to
participate in some other job connected with the play.
Sixty children actually helped with the production and of
this group, about forty took part in the finished per-
formances.

Casting was understandably difiicult as the capabilities
of the children were not known. Mrs. Miller feels that any
future production would work more smoothly if boys and
girls could be studied and worked with prior to the casting
date. The fact that one wardrobe had to suflice for separate
casts was not allowed to determine casting. Later, it was
surprisingly evident that only a few major alterations

545

would have to be made quickly between plays for the cos-
tnmcs to be a perfect fit for each cast.

Hating selected “Cinderella” because it was a familiar
and well-loved story, the grotip went ahead and three
separate casts were chosen. In adapting the Chorpenning
version from the. Children's Theatre Press in Anchorage.
Kentucky, for outdoor use, it became necessary to make
several changes. The cast of eleven was increased to twenty.
Four pages pulled imaginary curtains, gave explanations
usually given by printed programs, and changed scenery
in full view of the audience. Six fairies, attendants of the
godmother, made the magic slipper appear, brought in

 

Mickey Campbell and Dick Lewis put finishing touches to tree
being made for outdoor scene. A castle turret in background.

Cinderella’s ball clothes and dressed her. These devices
took the place of the magic effects which an ordinary stage
allows.

Since park shrubbery is not always arranged to form a
suitable setting, it was necessary to devise a portable back-
ground to enclose the stage area. Cedar boards three
inehes wide and six feet high Were lashed together with
wire, in ten foot sections. At each performance, these
were wired to pipes that had been driven into the ground.
This weatherproof background was harmonious with sur-
rounding trees and was easily erected or rolled for trans-
porting and storing. A young stage crew did the wiring
and the Park District provided a truck and men to move
the sections and other properties from park to park.

Cooperation between Junior Programs and the park
workers became imperative as sites for rehearsals and for

546

the finished production were chosen. It was necessary that
the audience be facing away from the sun. No lights were
used. but the sun was needed to light 11]) actors’ faces.
However, children could not practice without some shade.
as the days were growing warmer. Rehearsals had to be
away from trallie noises, playground equipment and swim-
ming pools.

Since concentration was difficult, park supcrvisors did
not allow non-participants to distract the casts. However,
neighborhood children were encouraged to watch the play
progress. Some became so interested that they arrived
each day with the regularity of the players. Frequently,
they were heard to comment that “He didn’t put anything
into that bit,” or “That’s the guy that should oughta been
the prince!”

Players were required to spend two hours every week
day for four weeks in rehearsals, and on the fifth week
the play was performed before an audience seated in a
semi-circle on park benches and tables or on the grass.
The director and her assistant worked simultaneously, each
with a cast, in a park in the morning. The third cast was
rehearsed in the afternoon while a workshop crew made
scenery, costumes and props.

As the weeks progressed the workshop became a fascinat-
ing place with paint, paper, scissors, needle and thread,
paste, hammers and nails rampant. Colorful costumes
were being fashioned from dyed material that had been
sheets, curtains, draperies or discarded dresses. Castle turo
rets, trees and a fireplace made from wood or cardboard
were being painted. Many children found it hard to
choose a “best” between the morning rehearsals and the
afternoon workshop.

The ideal situation would have been to hold the work-
shop in the parks. In Yakima, however, this was not pos-
sible because there are no storage facilities for scenery or
paints, no shelter for the sewing projects, no tools for the
boys and no adequate supervision. Such an undertaking
needs at least one adult supervisor for every four or five
children. Each job to be done is an individual job; and
by holding the workshop within the confines of a home,
children were allotted their days to work and confusion
was kept at a minimum. Actually it would have been
easier for adults to do all the work. Naturally this would
have removed the value for the boys and girls. As it was,
because of the press of time, much had to be done by
older and more experienced hands that could have been
done by the children.

Children who couldn’t take part in the play were able
to participate, through neighborhood parks, by making
advertising posters. Park supervisors were eager to help.

Local park leaders feel an outdoor workshop for a sum-
mer theatre is feasible, but not possible, until Yakima
parks grow more in space, storage and funds. Then adults
and materials can be ready in small units for allotment to
various parks. This calls for close supervision and long-
range planning.

From the beginning, it was the Junior Programs plan
in which all children in the city would have an equal op-
portunity to be chosen for the play. From the pre-casting

RECREATION

date through the finished production schedule, the Yakima
daily newspapers and radio stations helped spread thc
word about the play progress. However,'as the days ad-
vanced, it became apparent that the interest of children
from the lower income homes was not being sustained, and
morc and more problems arose. Play directors feel that
close parental c00peration with the players is imperative
to bring about the needed regularity of attendance. Yet,
on the production days there were as many children in
thesc parks to see the afternoon dress rehearsals or evc-
ning performances as there were across town. This pointed
up the fact that all children in the city needed an Oppor-
tunity to view such free performances; whereas not all
were yet ready to take part in the staging of such a pro-
duction.

A peek into the director’s notebook reveals progress
reports given the children at the end of the third week.
The play was important, but the child was the thing, as
these excerpts show:

“You are growing into your character more daily and
that shows fine thinking.” “As the magic in our play de-

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

CLDIAMOND;
“‘\ //

OFFERS A IDE CHOICE
OF PITCHING HORSESHOES

the Diamond
SUPER RINGER

Drop forged from
carban steel. Heat
treoted. Perfectly bol-
anced. Packed in
pairs ar sets at faur
with stokes.

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

the Diamond
EAGLE RINGER

Drop forged from spe-
cial Diomond Harse-
shae steel. Furnished
either hardened or soft,

dead falling type.

  
   
 

the Diamond JUNIOR

For ladies and children.
Mode in one pottern anly.
Furnished in branze and
silver.

DIAMOND CALK HORSESHOE CO.
—4614 GRAND AVENUE —— DULUTH, MINN.

 

MARCH 1952

pends on you and the fairies, Godmother, it is important
that you feel this magic. Your magic shows in your face;
now can you make it show in your body and voice?” “I
like the way you study your actions; you are making a
good part of the character you are playing.” “Your Cin-
(lerella must not be so sober but must be a happy girl.”
“Your posture is improving. With practice at home as
well as on the stage, you will achieve a queenly bearing.”

In looking back on the summer’s experiment, Junior
Programs and the Park District felt that much had been
accomplished. The play provided something to consume
the time and energies of the vacationing child and it kept
many out-of-doors but off the streets. Many children
learned lasting lessons in self-confidence from this unique
experience. The drama organization felt their money had
been wisely invested and park supervisors were gratified
over the hundreds of families that went to the parks to
see the finished play.

The best recommendation of all came from the children
who sighed, “What will we play next year, and can I be
in it?”

WOULD YOUR
COMMUNITY
WANT A
CHILDREN’S SYMPHONY
ORCHESTRA?

Walter Mantani, conductor

Young People’s Orchestral Society, Inc.
New York City, N. Y.

Will Organize and Conduct a
Children’s Symphony
In Your City

Doublebasses, Tympani, Stands, Library
Available for Free Use

Community, Business or Private Sponsorship
Invited

FORMER AFFILIATION S

Metropolitan Museum of Art
Heckscher Foundation for Children
Stevens Institute of Technology

FOR COMPLETE DETAILS, EXPERIENCE, REFERENCES, ETC.
CONTACT:

WALTER MANTANI

68-37 108th Street
FOREST HILLS 75, N.Y.

 

Jesse A. Reynolds and John A. Donaho

——-———.
#—

Budgets have been a paradox in the
field of public administration. On one
hand are the operating officials of the
government who feel that they are
competent to administer the programs
which they have conceived. On the
other hand is the legislative body
which has the power to apprOpriate
funds and to raise taxes to support the
appmpriations. The legislative body,
not being in a position to supervise
continually the expenditure of the
funds appropriated, has been in-
terested in the establishment of precise
controls over the eXpenditure of funds.
Recent developments in the field of
budgeting are proof that there is a
workable middle ground and that the
Opposing vieWpoints can be reconciled.

The purpose of government is to
meet the needs of the people and to
carry out the objectives which are as-
signed to each agency by law. In or-
der to carry out the assigned objectives
there must be a plan, an organization
and money. The budget is the ideal
instrument for administrative officials
to use in presenting their work plans
and requirements and in obtaining ap-
proval of the legislative body. When
the plan has been approved, the bud-
get then becomes a guide to the ad-
ministrator in discharging the respon-
sibilities which have been placed

MR. REYNOLDS is the Director of Rec-
reation and Parks and MR. DONAIIO is
the Director of the Budget, Richmond.

548

upon him. Once enacted, the budget
is comparable to a contract between
the administrator and his subordinates
and the apprOpriating body.

Under the executive budget system
the chief administrator of a govern-
mental jurisdiction is responsible for
preparing and presenting a budget. He
is, likewise, responsihle for the effi-
cient administration of that budget.
If the budget is thought of as a work
plan, or a work program and its finan-
cial requirements, it then becomes the
fundamental basis upon which the
government Operates, and is a standard
against which performance can be
measured. The preparation of a bud-
get for the entire jurisdiction repre-
sents, of course, the reconciliation of
many competing demands and needs
and a weighing and balancing of these
so as to present a balanced program
which will meet the needs of the citi-
zens.

In the last several years there has
been increasing emphasis upon what
is known as a performance budget.
The performance budget is one in
which the emphasis is placed upon
services to be rendered by the juris-
diction with the dollars requested,
rather than upon what is to be pur-
chased with these dollars.
words, the work plan is the funda-
mental basis of such a budget. Ob-
viously, costs cannot be accurately de-
fined until the work to he done and ac-

In other

eomplishments to be expected are first

set forth. This shifting of emphasis
from the means to the end itself directs
the attention of the administrator and
legislative body to the work plan or
program rather than upon the tools
with which the job is to he done, such
as personnel and equipment.

The principal objective of the per-
formance budget may be said to he
responsibility: responsibility of ad-
ministrators for properly planning, or-
ganizing and presenting a balanced
work program and for properly esti-
mating the minimum financial require-
ments to carry out that work program,

PERFORMANCE BUDGET

so that each unit of service will be per-
formed at the lowest unit cost; respon-
sibility, too, upon the legislative body
to approve work programs which it
feels will meet the needs of the citi-
zens; responsibility, above all, for per-
{0111131106, in accordance with the con-
tract which has been entered into by
the administrative officials with the
appropriating body. The performance
budget provides a review of what is to
be done, how it is to be done, and
with what it is to be done. It provides,
also, for a continuing review of these
same factors.

The performance hudget itself will
be of limited value if performance is
represented only in the annual bud-
get document. The whole concept of
the budget as an aid to administration
must be cast in the same pattern.
The budget, the accounts, and the re-
ports must follow. The performance
or work-program budget and what has
been known as the line-item budget
are irreconcilable. Lump sum appro-
priations for major operating units
are necessary. PrOper budgetary ad-
ministration requires that the adminis-
trative officials be given certain flexi-
bility in administration in order to
perform the job which they have
guaranteed to produce. Therefore,
when the accounts are set up, on a
work program basis, with an account
for each work program, there must be
within the hands of the administrative
official sufficient authority to provide

RECREATION

for the transfer of funds among allot-
mcnts madc by the administrator to the
various accounts. Opportunity for re-
curring evaluation of program prog-
ress and consequent transfer of funds
from places where they are not needed
to places where they are needed is
csscntial.

Likewise, the evaluation of per-
formance should not be on an annual
basis. From the standpoint of the line
executive in direct charge of an opera-
tion such as recreation, evaluation of
performancc is a daily thing. From the
standpoint of top management it is

playgrounds and ccnters, 2) sports
and athletics, and 3) special services
and events. Funds for the opcration of
these are appropriated in a lump sum
and the administrative head. with ap-
proval of the budget director and the
city manager, determines how they
arc to hc uscd to provide a well-
balanced recreation program. These
same basic considerations are given
to the structure of the park budget
which has seven work programs to
measure service and performance.
Gencral administration serving both
bureaus of the department is set up as

FOR RECREATION

regular in terms of monthly and quar-
terly periods. Under a quarterly allot-
mcnt system, the chief executive and
his staff can evaluate program progress
and financial expenditures at the end
of each quarter. Using the work pro-
gram as the basis of thc budgct and
of the account and defining within
each program the measurable activi-
ties means that the financial reports
and thc rcports of work produced, or
administrative reports, can be recon—
ciled. chularly, then, the financial
reports and the work reports should
be reviewed and evaluated, first by the
opcrating executive, and second, by
the chief administrator and his staff.
At that time, changes in program can
be checked and financial adjustments
made. Funds which are not needed
should be placed in a reserve for con-
tingencies where they will be available,
upon request, to carry out programs
which have been authorized.

Because the work plan, or program,
is thc fundamental basis of the pcr-
formance budget, the Richmond, Vir-
ginia, department of recreation and
parks has built its budget on three
major units: 1) administration. 2)
recreation, and 3) parks. In order to
measure the activities of each, work
programs have been established. In
recreation, the work programs them-
selves define the program content, and
through key work load factors per-
formance is measured. Richmond’s
work programs for recreation are: 1)

MARCH 1952

a separate work program. The cost is
not distributed to other services or
programs.

Presentation of the budget stresses
program and performance, followed by
financial statements outlining cost. It
can be noted from the following bud-
get that what is to be done is the key
factor rather than how the programs
are to be accomplished.

The presentation bcgins by outlining
the gcneral objectives and scope of
activities of the department, indicating
its goal in the deveIOpment of recrea-
tional opportunities and its standards
for maintenance and operation of parks
and playgrounds. Following this is a
financial statement on the bureau lcvel
of all funds, budget and capital, allo-
cated to the department.

The following is a typical budget as
submitted by the Bureau of Recreation,
showing program and performance,
the appropriation ordinance text and
the financial statcment. Particular at-
tention is called to the appropriation
ordinance text, which gives to the ad-
ministrator the desired flexibility of
using funds where they are most
necdcd.

Program and Performance
Centers and Playgrounds

This work program plans, organizes.
promotes and directs leisure-time pro-
grams at eighteen community centers

November 1 to March 31—

mainly for children in the afternoons,

from

and mainly for teen-agers and adults
at night.

The program consists of folk, square
and social dancing; drama, puppetry
and storytelling; community singing
and organized choral groups; modern
dance groups; playground activities;
sewing, knitting, woodcraft, hobbies,
handcraft and art groups; gamcs, con-
tests and tournaments; parties, dances,
special youth groups; youth dances;
special programs and events. Partici-
pant sessions in community centers for
1951-52 are estimated to be 337,828.

From April 1 to October 31, on
thirty-six playgrounds, the program
stresscs activitics similar to the center
program with fewer organized groups
and more highly organized special
cvents such as thirty-six family play
days in May, during Park and Recrea-
tion Week, summer events such as
Fourth family
nights, puppet shows, handcraft ex-
hibits and August play days correlat-

of . .luly programs,

ing and exhibiting all phases of the
program. Participant sessions for
1951—52 on the playgrounds are esti-
math to bc 970,655.

Emphasis is being placed on a com-
munity program at ncighborhood cen-
ters and playgrounds. These are
planned with local advisory councils
composed of neighborhood people. Ap-
proximately four hundred volunteers
work annually with the local staff.

Sports and Athletics

The division of sports and athletics
promotes, plans, organizes and directs
all phases of the athletic program at
twenty-three playfields, eleven com-
munity gymnasiums and two swim-
ming pools. In addition to these,
Sports and athlctic workers also assist
playground directors on thirty-six play-
grounds during the summer months
and in eighteen community centers
during the winter months. The division
works in close harmony with the
churches in planning athletic programs
and assists in the Operation of all
church sports functions using public
facilities. It also serves as the local
agency for National AAU events
staged in Richmond.

It is the constant aim of this divi-
sion not only to help our citizens en-

joy themselves as actual participants

549

of sports and athletics, but also to stage
athletic contests and events that will
allow them to enjoy themselves as
spectators as well.

The program will include: approxi-
mately 3,344 baseball and softball
games; six city, distriet and state soft-
ball tournaments; seven tennis tourna-
ments; two horseshoe tournaments,
city and state; neighborhood Fourth
of July celebrations; the lending of
materials, as well as providing staff
aid for picnics to church, business and
professional groups.

In the fiscal year 1950-51 a total of
3,100,000 participants and spectators
were served at a unit cost of three and
one-tenth cents per participant.

An estimated 3,300,000 citizens will
be served as participants and specta-
tors in 1951-52. Unit cost, per fiscal
year:

1949-50 $.029 (actual)
1950-51 .031 (estimated)
1951-52 .032 (budget)

Special Services and Events

In this division of its program the
bureau plans, coordinates and directs
special activities for which it assumes
primary responsibility including:

1. Projects financed and directed by
the division——traveling theatre, for
park and playground programs;
eighteen neighborhood Halloween cele-
brations; Club 16 (teen-age club);
Christmas pageant (out-of-doors on
Christmas Eve); concerts (free to the
public)—ineluding The Messiah, pre-
sented by the opera group, spring con-
cert, presented by the choral society;
(adult

Negro and white)—eommunity center

specialized city-wide groups

chorus, art, drama, puppetry, modern
dancing and eurythmics; storytelling
program (playgrounds and clubs);
neighborhood square dance jamborees.
2. Projects directed but not financed
by the division—Tobaccorama, pre-
sented by Tobacco Festival, Incor-
porated; city employee’s show; chil-
dren’s theatre (threc productions
annually) ; Park and Recreation week;
opera group (one production annual-
ly); Carillon pop concerts (six-week
series, in cooperation with Virginia
Conservation Commission); service-

inen’s dancrs; opening features of

550

Community Chest and Red Cross fund
drives.

3. Staff and volunteer training con-
ducted by the division in: folk danc-
ing, storytelling, creative drama for
children, puppetry, theory of recrea-
tion.

4. Program planning and consulta-
tion service to organizations and agen-
cies offered by the division to com-
munity groups, agencies, clubs, schools,

BUREAU OF RECREATION

ments and an estimate of future needs.
Since it is an estimate of what is to be
accomplished, on funds requested, a
system of reporting built on work pro-
grams must be devised. Since appro-
priated funds are allotted quarterly,
reporting, therefore, on performance is
also quarterly. These reports are im-
portant adjuncts to the performance
budget—important to the administra-
tor to check aceolnplishments, cffi-

DEPARTMENT OF
RECREATION AND PARKS
EXPENDITURES

D E S C R I P TI 0 N Actual Estimate Budget
Fiscal Yr. Fiscal Yr. Fiscal Yr.
1949-50 1950-51 1951-52
GENERAL FUND
Annual Appropriation .................................................... .. $210,024 $254,260 $260,000
Decrease of ApprOpriation by Transfer
To: “Bureau of Parks” .............................................. .. 1,706
Total GENERAL FUND Appr0priation ................. .. $208,318 $254,260 $260,000
Less Unexpended Balance ........................................ .. 3,235 6,255
Net Total GENERAL FUND Expenditures ......... .. $205,083 $248,005 $260,000
EXPENDITURES BY W'ORK PROGRAMS
No. 300301. Playground and Centers ................... .. $ 95,598 $112,862 $117,014
No. 300302. Sports and Athletics .............................. .. 59,982 91,605 96,031
No. 300303. Special Services and Events .............. .. 49,503 43,538 46,955
Total .............................................................................. .. $205,083 $248,005 $260,000
EXPENDITURES BY CHARACTER AND OBJECT
Average Number of Permanent Employees .............. .. 35 42 41
Man-Months, Temporary and Part-Time Employment 844 900 900
Personal Services Permanent ...................................... .. $ 80,063 $ 95,920 $104,370
Part-Time and Temporary .......... .. 78,511 104,114 105,765
Supplies and Materials ................................................ .. 21,948 21,571 22,485
Equipment, Maintenance and Replacement .............. .. 1,578 1,348 2.090
Equipment, New ............................................................ .. 553 80
Rents and Utilities ........................................................ .. 15,249 12,239 12.421
Printing and Binding .................................................... .. 149 124 130
Travel ........................................................................... .. 238 350 300
Freight, Express and Hauling .................................... .. 5 13 20
Other Contractual Services .......................................... .. 6,552 12,171 12,269
Unclassified .................................................................... .. 237 75 150
Total .............................................................................. .. $205,083 $248,005 $260,000
churches, and so on. The division ciency, progress and evaluation—

serves as a clearing house for all music
and drama groups in the city.

5. Lending service to civic organiza-
tions, schools and churches of cos-
tumes and scenic materials.

Appropriation Ordinance Text

For salaries and other expenses, in-
cluding acquisition of equipment,
necessary for the conduct of the work
programs of the Bureau of Recreation
in the Department of Recreation and
Parks, as set forth in the General

Fund Budget ........................ ..$260,000.

Financial Statement

It must be remembered that a bud-
get as presented, with its cost figures,
key work-load factors, and so forth, is
at best a review of past accomplish-

ilnportant to the legislative body, ad-
ministrative heads and to the citizens
that they may see where their money
goes, not so much how it goes, and the
net result of work accomplished for
dollars spent.

Census Figures

The Bureau of the Census tells us
that the average 1950 per capita ex-
penditure for “recreation” in 474
cities of over twenty-five thousand
population was $2.51. It varied from
an average of $2.07 in 243 cities of
twenty-five thousand to fifty thousand
up to $3.60 per capita in thirteen cities
of five hundred thousand to one mil-
lion. Figues include parks. organized
and other recreation facilities.

RECREATION

Come On In - The Dancin’s Fine

 

Captain Jinks Quadrillc

Music: “Captain Jinks” or 6/8 rhythm.

Verse:

1. Do-si-do with your corners all, your corners all, your
corners all;

2. Do-si-do with your partners all, for that’s the style of
the Army; .

3. Allemande left with your corners all, corners all, cor-
ners all;

4. Allcmande right with your partners all, for that’s the
stylc of the Army.

5. Balance to your corners all, your corners all, your
corners all;

6. Swing the corner lady all, and promenade around the
hall.

Chorus:

When I left home, mama she cried, mama she cried, mama

she cried;
When I left home, mama she cried, “He’s not cut out for
the Army.”

( All is repeated three times.)
Action:
1. All turn away from partners, walk around corner lady,
passing right shoulders and walk backwards to places.
2. Face partners and repeat do-si-do with them.
3. Turn away from partners, join left hands with corner
lady and turn around counterclockwise, back to place.
4. Face partners, join right hands and turn clockwise
back to place. ,
5. Take two steps backward, then two steps toward corner
lady.
6. In waltz position, turn corner lady in place.
7. Promenade with corner lady around the square and
back to man’s place. Repeat three more times, until original
partners are reunited.

Take a Little Peek

Music: “Wreck of the Southern 97,” “Irish Washerwom-
an,” “Durangos Horn Pipe” or “Turkey in the Straw.”
Introduction: Done only at the beginning of the dancc.
1. Honor your partner, sides address (bow to partner and
corner).

2. All join hands and circle left.
MARCH 1952

VERYONE SEEMS to be do-si-doing it these days. Watch your favorite television

program and, with little or no excuse, the ballet group will suddenly go into a
square dance. Tune on the radio and a slick band with a hillbilly fiddlc will be
setting the mood for a “hoedown.” Go into the record shOps and instcad of listening
to crooners and lullabies, you’ll be hearing countrified voices yelling “Allemande
left and around you go!” Yes, everybody’s doing it———or almost—for there still are
many of all ages who are anxious to get into the swing, but find the activity a little
complicated in the beginning. For them, we offer the following. The idea is to start
with a few simple squares and, later on, progress to the more difficult figures.

3. Come back home single file.
4. Ladies in the lead, Indian style.
Figure Calls:
1. First couple out and lead to the right (stand in front
of second couple and how).
2. Around that couple and you take a little peek.
3. Back in the center and you swing your sweet.
4. Around that couple and you peek once more.
5. Back in the center and you circle four (join hands with
second couple and move left half way ’round).
6. Circle four and pass right through (first couple pass
betwecn man and lady of second couple).
7. And you go right on as you used to do (first couple
goes over in front of third couple and bows).

(Lines 1 to 7 are repeated twice more, but on the last
time, substitute: “And you go back home where you used to

be.”

Change Calls:

1. Home you are with a balance all (step toward partner
and back) .

2. Swing around all and swing around eight (turn partner
twice around, eight steps on this and next line).

3. Go up the river and across the lake.

4. Allemande left (turn corner all the way ’round with
left hand).

5. And a grand chain eight (give right hand to partner,
pass her, left hand to next and so on, doing a grand right
and left half way ’round circle on this and next line).

6. Hurry up boys, don’t be slow.

7. Meet Mary Ann and away you go (meet partner and

promcnade home with her on this and next two lines).
8. Back home again with a promeno,
Hi dee, hi dee, hi dee, oh!
Note: The second couple now does the figurc call, all do
the change call, then the third and finally the fourth cou-

ples do the same. At end, all promenade to seats, instead
of “back home.”

Darling Nellie Cray1

Music: “Darling Nellie Gray.”
Introduction :
Honor your partners, your corners all

All oin hands and circle the hall.
551

Coils:

1. Oh, it’s first couple out to the right

And circlc four hands around,

2. And swing your Opposite darling Nellie Gray.
3. Now it’s right and left right through

And you balance as you do,

4. And swing your own darling Nellie Gray.

5. Then it’s on to the next

And circle four hands ’round.
(Repcat with third couple and again with fourth. The

first couple then returns to place.)

Chorus:

1. Now it’s do-si-do your corners

And do-si-do your own.

2. And swing your Opposite lady ’cross the hall
3. And swing your left hand lady, just as you are

4. And swing your own sweet darling Ncllie Gray.

Action:
1. The first couple leads out to the right, joining hands

with the second couple and circling left.
2. Each gent of these two couples swings his corner lady.
3. Right and left, half-way, then turn around individually

and directly facing them will be their original partners.
The ladies turn to their right and the gents to the left, in

the “Right and Left.” The figure is not completed as in

the regular “Right and Left.” The balance is a mere nod,
as there is no time to perform a real balance.

4. Cents swing their original partners (only the first and
second couples are dancing; the third and fourth are
standing still).

5. First couple then moves to thc third and the figure is
repeated.

Chorus Action:
1. Cents perform a do-si-do with their corner ladies, pass-
ing by the right shoulders. Partners do-si-do, passing by

the left shoulders.

2. Cents move directly across the set, but in doing so,
move slightly to their left, so that there can be no collision.
Now they swing opposite ladies (the first gent swings the

third lady, the second swings the fourth and so on).

3. Each gent stops swinging, being careful to leave his
own lady on his right. Each then moves to the lady now
on his left and swings her. Thus the first gent swings the
second lady; the second gent, the third lady; and so on.
4. Each gent now swings the lady on his left, who is his
original partner.

Buffalo Boys2

Music: “Buffalo Gal,” “Wagoner’s Reel” or “Little Brown
Jug.”

C ails :

A. First couple balance and swing.

1. First buffalo boy promenade the outside ring
Balance to your partner

Partner with the right hand ’round

2. Corner lady with the left hand ’round

3. Sashay by your own little gal

And swing the lady across the hall

4. Home you go and swing your own

1. Reprinted from “The American Square Dance,” by Margot Mayo.
Sentinel Books, New York. 2. Reprinted from “The Square Dance,”
Chicago Park District.

552

5. And one-two couplcs swing

6. Two buffalo boys promenade the outside ring
Balance to your partners

Partner with the right hand ’round

Corner lady with the left hand ’round

Sashay by your own little gal

And swing the lady across the hall

Swing her awhile and lcave her alonc

Run away home and swing with your own

7. And one-two-three couplcs swing

Three buffalo boys promenade the outside ring
Balance to your partners

Partner with the right hand ’round

Corner lady with the left hand ’round
Sashay by your own little gal

And swing the lady across the hall

Home you go and swing your own

8. And all four COUples swing

Four bufialo boys promenade the outside ring
Balance to your partners

Partner with the right hand ’round

Corner lady with the left hand ’round
Sashay by your own gal

And swing the lady across the hall

Home you go and everybody swing
Allcmande left, grand right and lcft

Meet your partner and promenadc.

B. Second couple balance and swing.

C. Third couple balance and swing.

D. Fourth couple balance and swing.

Action:

1. The first gent walks once around the outsidc of thc set
back to his home station and bows to partner. Hc then

joins hands with her and turns hcr once completely around

in a clockwise direction, then dr0ps joined hands.
2. Cent number one then turns his corner lady (lady num-
bcr four) once completely around counterclockwise, with

left hands joined, then drops hands.
3. Cent number one sashays counterclockwisc on inside

of set, passing in front of his own partner to the lady
across the hall from home station (lady nunlbcr threc)
and swings her.

4. Cent number one returns to original partner and swings
her on his home station.

5. First and second couples swing.

6. First and second gents, with second gent in the lcad.
now simultaneously repeat movements numbered one to
four.

7. First, second and third couples swing; then first, second
and third gents, with third gent in the lead, simultaneously
repeat movements numbered one to four.

8. All four couples swing; then first, second, third and
fourth gents, with fourth gent in the lcad, simultaneously
repeat movements numbered one to four.

B. Substituting for A, second gent leads out and repeats
movements numbered one to eight. (Gents three and four.
and finally one, are addcd in proper scquence.)

C. Substituting for A, third gent leads out and repeats
movements numbered one to eight. (Gents four and one,
and finally two, are added in proper sequence.)

D. Substituting for A, fourth gent leads out and repcats
movements numbered one to eight. (Gents onc and two.
and finally three, are added in their proper sequence.)

RECREATION

COMMUNITY LEADERS

Use Your Initiative

OF TWO CENTRAL aspects of our

current mobilization problem, one
revolves around production and man-
power problems. The second revolves
around information and education
problems. There is still a third highly
important aspect to which reference
should be made: the problems raised
in connection with the maintenance of
a relatively huge and growing military
force. That these problems are many
is obvious. The central core of the
particular problem to which I want
to make brief rcferences here may be
phrased in the form of an assumption
and a question. The assumption is
this: We are faced with the necessity
of raising and maintaining a large
military force for many years to come.
The question is this: How do we raise
and maintain such a force over an
indefinite period and at the same time
sustain the normal forward progress
of our national democratic culture?

I am convinced that most of the
answers to this question rest with our
American communities, particularly
those communities which military per-
sonnel visit, and in which military
personnel and their dependents live.
Here is why this is so.

First—Military training and service
are fast becoming normal parts of thc
growing-up and educational process
for our American youth.

Second—If military service is to
sustain the normal forward progress
of our culture, it must make a con-
structive contribution to that educa-
tional process. You can’t make mili-
tary training an intellectual and moral
deep freeze; and certainly it must not

MARCH 1952

represent a period of moral and in-
tellectual retrogression. It has got to
give young men the opportunity to
grow as individuals, to become better
citizens; and this responsibility applies
equally to the young women of the
armed forccs; and to the women who
marry servicemen; andto their children.

Third—Many of
these Opportunities
can be given to
military personnel
through such mili-
tary programs as
special services, information and edu-
cation, training, and religious oppor-
tunities. However, the military services
alone simply cannot provide suihcient
opportunities of these types and of
sufliciently high quality; and cannot
follow service personnel and their de-
pendents when they live in and visit
civilian communities. Therefore, it be-
comes necessary to look to civilian
communities to make freely available
their indigenous resources to supple-
ment and support military programs.
It is in our communities where this
national culture of which we speak is
resident. What we want and need for
military personnel and their families
is the closest possible normal contact
with the mainstreams of American
life in the communities in which they
and their dependents live and which
they visit on leave time.

There is no fixed formula or
standard pattern for accomplishing
this. In our work with military com-
manders and community leaders, we
say to the military, “Discover, and
make full use of what is available in

 
 
   

An Address by
Sherwood Gates

thc civilian community; expand your
own fine programs by drawing on the
civilian resources available to you.”
On the other side, we tell community
leaders to use their imagination and
initiative in stimulating a free flow of
community resources on behalf of mili-
tary personnel; to make available and
attractive to military personnel every-
thing in thcir community in which
they take pride. To both sides, we say,
“Get together, plan jointly,
cooperatively to maintain and expand
a joint community-military program

work

that uses all the resources on both sides
in order to make available a stimulat-
ing and attractive program which has
something worthwhile to offer every
serviceman and woman, every servicc
dependent, and'every member of the
civilian community.”

Frankly, we think of our role, of
the federal government’s role, in this
highly important segment of the na-
tional mobilization
effort as that of a
challenger. We offer
to people of good
will in American
communities — to
all people of good will—the challenge
to join with the military as full part-
ners in helping to make military train-
ing and service a period of positive
growth in the highest values of our
democratic culture. It is possible to
send young men and women back to
civilian life better citizens than when
they entered the armed forces. We
think this is a challenge worthy of
our American tradition. We think that
in the solution of the problems posed
by this challenge, our American com-
munities can and will devise new and
effective methods for community
c00peration on behalf of the public
welfare. We ask this Conference on
Community Mobilization for such as-
sistance as it can give to us in this
work and for such assistance as it can
give to the countless individuals of
good will throughout this Nation who
are already struggling with this prob-
lem. (See page 572, “Community Pro-
grams Include Servicemen.”—Ed.)

  

*Given before session of “The American
Council for the Community Conference on
Community Mobilization," November 1951.

553

0 The following three articles merely suggest the
wide range of recreation training opportunities exist-
ing in our conntry. In addition to formal, academic
and professional education conducted by colleges and
universities and thc regular in-servicc training pro-
grams conducted by local and state rccreation agencies,
there are varied and extensive Opportunities for young
and experienced workers. Also, there are the annual
district recreation conferences, conducted under spon-
sorship of the National Recreation Association, the
National Recreation Congress and numerous training
experiences provided by state cxtension services.
Courses, workshops, institutes and training confcrences
run into the hundreds annually.

Whether it be for activity skills or highly technical
information of an executive or administrative nature,

an appropriate training experience can be found in
one or several sections of the land.

These training sources are helping to fill the gaps
in knowledge and skills, to change attitudes. They are
helping to create better workers and better citizens,
developing people and improving performance. They
are growing out of a need recognized by the leaders
themselves and are the work of many people who are
sacrificing time and money beyond their regular call

of duty.—W. C. Sutherland

 

Park and Iteereatien Institutes
Ieress Ameriea—A New Venture

Garrett G. Eppley

PARK AND RECREATION administrators are going to school
and they love it. Across America, training institutes
are springing up to serve the various section of our country.
One may even receive graduate credit for participating in
them, for they are conducted in part by personnel of our
colleges and universities.

This new venture was initiated in 1947 when the De-
partment of Recreation at Indiana University in coopera-
tion with the Indiana State Park Department, the Indiana
Municipal Park and Recreation Association, similar dc-
partments and associations of the surrounding states and
their regional and national associations, established the
Great Lakes Park Training Institute at Pokagon State
Park, Angola, Indiana—225 miles from the campus of the
state university. Since that time over five hundred different
individuals have participated in one or more of the insti-
tute’s annual sessions, and have come from twenty-six states,
Canada and the District of Columbia. Some of them have

554

Recreation

TRAINING

gone back home to establish similar services for their
particular regions. They all are affiliated with a college or
university, with park and recreation departments and
associations serving on the planning committee as co-spon-
sors. In Florida, the institute is affiliated with the General
Extension Division of Florida University. In the New
England region the Department of Recreation of Spring-
field College is responsible for conducting the institute.
while for the Midcontinent Association it is affiliated with
the Center for Continuation Study at the University of
Minnesota.-Proceedings are compiled for each; and in
conducting an institute, the director is assisted by graduate
students majoring in recreation. The American Institute
of Park Executives and the National Conference on State
Parks hope to have institutes established for all sections

of the country by 1957.

Their popularity is illustrated by the average attendance
at each session. At Pokagon, session attendance has in-
creased three hundred seventy-fivc per cent though the total
registration has increased only seventy-five per cent.
Averagc session attendance for 1951 was one hundred
thirty-one out of a total registration of two hundred two.

All persons appearing on the program come at their own
expense or at the expense of their departments. It is con-
sidered an honor to appear on the program. The adminis-

trators spend many hours gathering data and preparing
their talks. They are on the firing line, and the informa-
tion they present is still hot. Each talk is followed by a
lively discussion. A portion of the week is given over to
small workshops in which everyone participates. Ample
time is allowed for a discussion of topics; and demonstra-
tions, films, displays and field inspections are utilized for
the presentation of subject matter. It is the policy at
Pokagon to allow considerable time for informal get-
togethers, fellowship, relaxation and both passive and
active recreation. The nightly scssions over a cup of coffee,
in the “Barn” of the Inn, do much to create a common
philosophy among park and recreation administrators.
Too many institutcs fail because they are loaded down with
speakers and discussions. The topics for the Sixth Annual
Session of the Great Lakes Park Institute are somewhat

RECREATION

“Pulverizers” proved of interest
at recent Florida Park and Rec-
reation Training Institute.

OPPORTUNITIES

typical. Included were discussions of School Camping,
Planning of Park Systems, Areas and Facilities, Defense
Problems as They Relate to Parks and Recreation, Effective
Committee Functioning, State Services and Support for
Parks and Recreation, Personnel Management, Interpreta-
tion of Parks and Recreation Through Use of Visual Ma-
terials, Surfacing and Pa'ints. Nine workshop sessions on
various phases of operation and maintenance were held.

The Great Lakes and the Florida institutes are designed
primarily for park personnel while the New England and
Midcontinent institutes are planned for both park and
recreation personnel.

What are some of the results? Park and recreation ad-
ministrators have indicated the following:

1. An improvement in the quality of work performed
by park and recreation personnel—owing to the applica-
tion of new techniques in administration and interpreta-
tion—a broadening of their concept of program, and the
pertinent data obtained by them on operation and main-
tenance.

2. The development of a professional attitude; the learn-
ing of the “why” of things as well as of the “how.”

3. The development of understanding among park and
recreation administrators, and university officials. Each is
beginning to realize the contributions and problems of the
others.

4. The elevation of the status of park and recreation
personnel in the minds of board members and the general
public. The fact that the university recognizes the im-
portance of this field influences various public groups to
realize that trained personnel is desirable.

5. More research on the part of the busy administrator.

6. The learning of techniques for the conducting of
institutes, gained from first-hand observations.

7. Administrators, graduate students—the potential ad-
ministrators of the future—and even park foremen are
becoming familiar with a vast amount of pertinent litera-
ture and personally acquainted with the leaders in the

profession.
8. Subject matter presented at the institutes is being

made available to our institutions of higher learning and

MARCH 1952

 

to the general public. Copies of the proceedings have becn
requested by colleges and universities, public libraries, as
well as park and recreation departments.

Though curricula in park management are offered at
Syracuse University and at Michigan State College, and
recreation curricula are offered at a number of colleges
and universities, none of these curricula prepare the future
executive to administer a park and recreation department.
The regional institute helps to fill this gap in training.
But the most important contribution of the institute to the
profession is that it has created among park and recreation
personnel an urge to keep learning and to grow profes-
sionally.

What these institutes hold for the future nobody knows,
but if they arc well planned and conducted, held in the
proper setting, they should develop the park and recreation
profession much above its present status.

 

MR. EPPLEY, Chairman of the Department of Recreation of
Indiana University, is Director of the Great Lakes Park
Training Institute, Pokagon State Park, Angola, Indiana.

Larry Eisenberg

A SHORT, PLUMP German-born man was standing in front
of a group of interested adults in a camp, explaining
how you do wood carving. It seemed simple to him. Hold-
ing up a sample of his work, an exquisitely-carved animal,
he explained, “He was in the vood—I just let him out.”
All the crowd looked up from their 0Wn handwork projects
to smile at him and at each other appreciatively.

John Klassen had just about expressed the philosophy
behind many of the recreation leadership workshops which
now dot the country clear across the map. They are
planned to find better ways of “letting out” the potential
ability for enjoyment of life evident in the people who
attend. All year long, especially in the spring, there will
be groups of interested people earnestly pursuing the quest
of how to help people play more effectively.

Most RECREATION readers are familiar with the tremen-
dous ob done by the social recreation and other specialists

555

of the National Recreation Association. They have helped
a great deal in these recreation workshops.

The spontaneous way in which the Workshops get
started is one of their more interesting features. Someone
attends one or two. gets the idea, and starts one for “his
own people" nearer home than the regional or state-wide
meeting. Nearly two decades ago such a meeting was held
at W'alden \Voods, Michigan, on the basis of sharing ideas
and learning leadership techniques from each other. One
year they had an unusually interesting time. All of the
‘“imported” leadership cancelled out at the last minute, and
those present had to carry on the program by themselves.
They enjoyed this sharing so much that when the group
broke up and started regional workshops, members took
the sharing idea with them. The Reverend Fred Smith
went to Camp Ihduhapi, E. O. Harbin to the Southwide
Leisure Time Conference, A. W. Henke to Clear Lake,
Iowa, and D. C. Ellinwood to Illinois to start the Leisure-
craft and Counseling camp; and from these many others
have grown.

The features and pattern of these recreation workshops
is similar and simple. The program will nearly always
include offerings in group singing, crafts in their many
forms, folk dancing, square dancing and singing games,
informal and formal dramatics, active games and outdoor
fun, nature lore and camping, perhaps Specialized activi-
ties like whip snapping and boomerang throwing, and
above all, plenty of philosophizing. It is a “learn-to-do-by-
doing” experience.

These leaders are not only interested in the “how” of
recreation, but very much in the “why”. This fact accounts
for the earnest discussion groups, panels, and talks on the
place and function of recreation in the lives of the peOple
in their particular organizations. At one of these sessions.
a casual visitor might get the idea that most of them were
not interested—since their eyes are lowered to their work
of wood-carving, braiding, lacing and other jobs (any of
which can he done silently). Let there come a lull in the
speech, however, and the discussion shows that they didn't
miss a word!

Democratic operation characterizes most of the work-
shops. Many are held in camps and other informal situa-
tions. Rugged clothing is the order of the day. Leadcr
soon becomes learner after his special period of responsi-
bility is over, and one may find a nationally-known music
leader making a very ordinary-looking craft project of
which he is very proud. The unwritten law is that every-
hody “pitches in” at all points in the program.

Cooperative Operation of the workshops is often a de-
lightful feature. The group helps with dishes and meals,
cleans up and sweeps out, and takes pride in leaving camp
cleaner than they found it.

You will find these workshops all over the country now.
Some feature recreation on a community basis (for “Y”
workers, extension service pe0ple, county agents, church
workers, teen town and golden age workers). Usually these
are quite non-sectarian. They are found in such workshops

as Camp Ihduhapi, the Black Hills Lab, or the Illinois,
Ohio (Buckeye), or Indiana (Hoosier) Lahs, for example.

556

The faith and denomination groups have taken the pattern
into their own basic training for professional and volun-
teer workers—the Catholic and Jewish groups, the Breth-
ren, l’rcsbyterians, American Baptists, Disciples and
Methodistsbas the YMCA and YWCA have done.

The Methodists have two policies about thc workshops:
we try to have a regional one close to as many pcOplc as
possible; for those areas not so touched, we list in detail
other training available. This information will be carried
in the Spring edition of Leisure, which can be had free
from Box 871, Nashville, Tennessee.

MR. EISENBERG, author of “T he Pleasure Chest,” serves as
recreation specialist for the Methodist General Board of
Education. and as editor of its quarterly paper, Leisure.

The Travelers
Robert R. Gamble

HERE ARE PEOPLE, especially in our largest cities, who

live their entire lives on the block where they were born,
although most of us travel a little more than that. A few
pe0ple, however, like NRA training specialists, travel
pretty continuously throughout several states, managing to
get home only occasionally. People who live this kind of
life are certainly entitled to be called “travelers.”

The recreation leadership training staff of the National
Recreation Association is composed of Helen Dauncey,
Anne Livingston, Mildred Scanlon, Grace Walker, Frank
Staples, and Ruth Garber Ehlers on a part-time basis.
Known to recreation leaders throughout the United States.
these training experts visited, in 1951 alone, three-fourths
of the states in the Union, and Canada, working on request
in 157 cities and giving leadership training to almost
15,000 recreation leaders, paid and volunteer.

In the general area of social recreation Helen Daunccy,
Anne Livingston and Mildred Scanlon, probably the most
famous traveling trio in the recreation field, in 1951, gave
instruction to over 10,000 leaders in 102 cities. Wherever
they went, they talked to luncheon groups, city ofhcials.
civic leaders; they appeared on radio and television pro-
grams; they were interviewed and photograpl1cd-—all of
this in an effort to serve as fully as possible the interests
of the recreation movement.

Grace Walker is one of this country’s leading teachers
in the field of the creative approach to recreation. Crca-
tive recreation, as Miss Walker conceives it, consists of all
recreation activities which serve to recreate within the
child or adult that joy which is a natural result of self-
expression. Miss Walker works particularly in the fields
of drama and speech, music and dance or movement. She
has worked both with groups of recreation leaders and
with educators who have found in her courses much that
is valuable in school situations. Working directly with
leaders, as do all NRA training workers, Miss Walker has

RECREATION

been able to multiply herself and make available to count-
less children and adults the satisfactions which come from
participating in choral speaking, dramatic activities, festi-
vals and other community-wide programs. In 1951, she
conducted training courses in twenty-one cities for 2,012
leaders.

Frank Staples has strewn handmade lie detectors and
his Yankee wit from coast to coast and border to border—~—
along with serious projects in arts and crafts which have
helped to raise substantially the general level of this part
of the community recreation program. He has found time,
also. to write books in his field, to prepare monthly fea-
tures for RECREATION magazine, and to campaign steadily
for higher and higher standards in art and crafts pro-
grams. llis efforts have brought results in more creative
and imaginative leadership. Mr. Staples gave training in
arts and crafts to 2,013 leaders in twenty-six cities in 1951.

Hard as she tried, Ruth Garber Elders just cannot
manage to retire. For several years she served as a full-
time member of the training staff, but more recently she
has been returning to duty from time to time to do the
special training in social recreation, party planning and
drama which she does so well. Her assistance has been
especially appreciated at busy scasons of the year when the
full-time workers’ schedules are filled. She gave instruc-
tion to 501 leaders in eight communities last year.

But why should the National Recreation Association
have a training staff in the first place?

The importance of training was recognized in the very
early days of the association, and one of the early items
in the literature of the movement is the association’s
"Normal Course in Play.”* Through the years many of
the association’s district representatives have themselves
done some leadership training work; and for nine years
there existed the National Recreation School, a graduate
professional school organized primarily to prepare care-
fully selected young men and women for eventual executive
responsibility in community recreation programs. Graduates
of that course are among the leaders in the field at the
present time.

More recently, however, the National Recreation Asso-
ciation has focused its training efforts on in-service train-
ing. People who are on the job have immediate and
continuing need for skills and new program materials. If
leadership is important in recreation, and we all recog-
nize that it is, then everything that can be done to make
that leadership effective must be done.

More and more volunteers are helping with community
and agency recreation programs. The service which they
render is so valuable that it could not possibly be paid for
out of strained budgets. Whatever can be done to help
volunteers feel that they are effective is worth doing. NRA
training courses are carefully planned to meet the needs
of volunteer leaders.

In larger cities, where in-service training programs are

*l’ublished first in 1909 as one of a series of pamphlets prepared
by the association’s “Committee on a Normal Course in Play.” The
material was later revised and published in book form. It is now
out of print.

MARCH 1952

Anne Livingston, NRA,
conducting a training
institute in Florida.

 

well established, there may not be quite the need for
special training programs conducted by NRA training
workers; but in smaller communities where staffs are
smaller and specialists fewer, this training staff has been
able to make an important contribution. This is not to say
that larger cities have not frequently asked for the special
help that is available. A training staff, like the one which
NRA has sponsored for so many years, can make a real
contribution to any recreation program.

The defense emergency has now brought more need for
recreation leadership—~——among military personnel, defense
industrial workers, civil dcfense staffs; and there are al-
ways the regular home front services to Mr. and Mrs.
Average Citizen which must be continued.

lmproved skills and techniques, a wider range of pro-
gram material, more confidence in leadership ability,
renewed enthusiasm—these are some of the things the
travelers leave behind with the leaders they have met
before boarding bus, train or plane for that next stop.

Evidence of the success of the training courses can be
found in the volume of correspondence which reaches NRA
Headquarters. Dates are hooked months—and in a
few cases—a year in advance. For all the inconveniences
of living out of a suitcase week after week, the travelers
find real satisfaction in their direct contact with other
recreation leaders whose devotion to their calling makes
them want to do it better. Satisfaction, too, from letters
of appreciation that arrive afterward, like the one which
said, “There is no end to the wonderful things you did for
us here,” or “Already our program has shown the results
of the institute,” or “The degree of success of this first
training institute can only be measured by the numerous
requests that we have had from many teachers, Girl Scout
leaders, YMCA, Boy Scout, Campfire Girls, C.Y.O. and
P.T.A. volunteers to please bring it back to this com-
munity next year. Please consider this letter a formal re-
quest,” or “It certainly helps a director and others to have
someone of your ability come in from' the outside to bring
stimulation, inspiration and new ways of doing things, as
well as skills in new activities.”

It looks as if the travelers are here to stay.

f

MR. GAMBLE, in. charge of NRA service to states, arranges
for the “travelers” to keep traveling. He is, also, the
Assistant Secretary of the Recreation Congress Committee.

55?

 

JONATHAN JONES’ great grandfather lived to be forty-
eight; his grandfather to fifty-five. Today, say scien-
tists, Jonathan has a better than even chance to live past
sixty-seven. They point to the ever increasing number of
elderly people in the United States (an increase of nine
million adults over sixty-five in the past fifty-one ycars.)
But then they ask, “What’s going to be done with our
elderly?”

Our society at times has been savage in its disregard of
the wants and problems of the agcd. All too often, a person
plus sixty-five is committed to a nursing home or hospital
because no one has helped him make an adjustment to
old age.

In some cases oldsters refuse to be shoved aside—in-
stead they strike out for themselves. For instance, the
Mohawk Development Service in Schenectady, New York,
originated hy a septuagenarian, makes it a policy to hire
only men over sixty-five. Each employee, thoroughly ex-
perienced in drafting or some other technical skill, is
happy and content working in retirement. These active
older men have no intention of rocking hopelcssly on a
front porch and allowing their respective talents, huilt up
after years of arduous experience, to waste. “We may

have to slow down a bit, but we’re ccrtainly not stopping,”
is their motto.

There are others.

558

“’ithin security. His next
play requires planning.

  

1" What’s the

A retired Army officer recently approached New York
University’s Division of Gencral Education with the re-
quest that they lay out a course of study for him. “I’ve
seen too many of these people die of retirement and 1
don’t intcnd to let it happen to mc,” he said.

There are older people still carrying on in the arts and
professions, such men as Arturo Toscanini, vigorous and
productive at eighty-four. Unfortunately, however, the
Toscaninis are few and far betwecn. The majority of our
aged are sadly in need of help—not 1nerely financial, but
psychological and educational as well.

Recognizing this problem, the Division of General Edu-
cation, the adult school of New York University, recently
called a two-day conference on “Society and the Older
Citizen.” Represented were govcrnment, industry, mcdi-
cine, labor and education. During the conference various
methods of dealing with the problems of aging were dis-
cussed and several practical ideas proposed.

Foremost among them was the necessity for a “re-
training period” for those who have retired from active
participation in business. To many, this period represents
a time of “shock.” The sudden inactivity sometimes proves
more than thcy can handle. As onc oldster put it, “Thcre
just ain’t nothing to play hookey from anymorc.”

The conferees believe that there is no reason for these
people and their skills to he lost to society. What is
necessary is a period in which they can learn new skills,
trades, avocations and talents—more suitable for their
advanced ages. They need occupations and cultural in-
terests which will bring about a happier adjustment to old
age.

There are some people over sixty-five who are able to
help themselves or whose companies have provided for
their well-being, but they are very much in the minority.
The rest are really in need of help.

Retirement is very likely to have medical consequences,
evcn in cases where financial aid is available. The boring,
tedious life of those with “nothing to do” sometimes mani-
fests itself in illness for which therc are no physiological
reasons. Those unfortunate enough not to have medical
advice or anyone interested in them often degenerate into
semi-helplessness, a detriment to thcmselves and to society.

RECREATION

Next Move for Our Elderly?*

Because our population is becoming older, it is ex-
tremely important to the nation for this increasing group
of the aged to be well informed. Our aging citizens will
have a very significant effect upon the nation politically
and economically; and in local matters the increasing pro-
portion of older men and women will havc a direct bearing
on whether a community is to he a static or dynamic one.

It is, therefore, of utmost importance that the older
person be informed and helped to understand the newer
social issues and community problems. If this isn’t done,
the older person who tends to be fixed in his thinking,
translating the present through the past, might be resistant
to change, even if it means social improvement.

There is also the danger that this large unit of our
population might be used politically for unscrupulous pur-
poscs. It is to the best intercsts of the individual, as well
as of the community, for the older person to be aware of
ideas different from his own and of the changes constantly

taking place in the social and political structure of the
world.

Dcan Paul A. McChee, head of the Division of General
Education, said of this problem, that to understand better
what is involved in the process of aging—the positive
values that come with advancing years as well as the limita-
tions—the older adult needs to become informed on such
matters as the following:

a. Financial problems of older people. Social security,
old age assistance, employment opportunities for older
workers, self employment.

b. Physiological aspects of aging. Health education
courses.

c. Psychological aspects of aging. Preventive mental
hygiene.

d. Nutritional needs.

e. Adjustments in family and social relationships.
Grandparent education. Living with other adults.

f. Forming new concepts of successful living. Working
for satisfaction rather than money.

g. Agencies serving the aged. Public health facilities,
mental hygiene clinics, visiting nurses, recreation centers,
employment centers, the old age nursing homes.

Dean McChee added, “Already established adult pro-

grams—with no segregation of age groups—provide a
wealth of training opportunitics and the general cultural
education so necessary to full mature living. Also, data
of the kind described can be integrated into spccial short
lecturc-discussion courses of value not only to older per-
sons, but to individuals in the middle years who are giving
thought to successful retirement in later life. A beginning
has bcen made, but much remains to be done.”

Like everyone else, our older adults need to love and be
loved in order to be healthy. But this is not possible when
they are suddenly confronted with inactivity which may
turn them into crochety, nervous individuals. Psychiatrists
warn that idle retirement is likely to aggravate personality
defects, to bring out deep irritations, and turn a fine citi-
zen into a liability to himself and to others.

Education, the confcrence decided, is one of the im-
portant answers to the double question, “What can we do
for the increasing number of elderly people, and what can
they do for themselves?” It is not the only answer, but it
will help enrich the lives of millions of Americans who
otherwise would he left helplessly rocking their way into

senility.

I"Released by New York University Bureau of Information.

Sculpture is one of the many arts gaining in pOpularity among men
and women who soon face retirement and long empty hours.

 

 

Um: “must” on the program: each camper had to make his or her own
name tag. \Vooden squares, macaroni letters, glue, pins and brushes
were on hand and onginal masterpieces were turned out in no time.

 

Food prepared by Oakland recreation department eamp cooks was
delivered piping hot. Noon-time rulings included, “Serve yourself,”
“seconds for all” and “help clean up.” Campers traveled back and
forth by chartered hus, remaining until evening on Thursday for a
hot meal scrved around the campfire instead of mid-day lunchcon.

Below: Making marbleized paper for gift wrappings occupied leisure
hours of these four. Other crafts werc pOpular. Strolls, nature talks
and walks, Hy casting, row boating, games of all kinds and “just plain
relaxing” out-of-doors made camp days memorable to all.

J

h l 4",.- .

 

 

 

“Haven’t played croquet for decades," Mrs. C.
sputtered. She found it a great surprise and a
pleasant one, to win over her co-playcrs.

 

“It has been many a (lay . . .,” so said these
two scniors, when they spied the bieyeles.
There were a few half-spills, but it was fun!

“Toast for us,” said these two eampers, when
they Spottcd this concrete outdoor fireplace
with a convenient grill, in the Lake Temcseal
picnic area. Many scniors tried their hands.

 

 

“a!

More than sixty men and women, “past 50,” experienced the time of their lives last August at the \Vest
Coast’s first day camp for senior citizens, sponsored by the Oakland, California, recreation department.
Stunts and skits, “tall tales” and sings around the campfire were acclaimed the best fun ever.

Y CAMP FOR OLDSTERS

A first day camp for oldsters was conducted by the Oakland, California,
recreation department last August. Everyone had a wonderful time; and a
colored slide series of photographs was made of the experience for a showing
at Governor \Varren’s October conference in Sacramento on the Problems of
the Aging. This conference was held to provide an opportunity for a represent-
ative group of California citizens to identify and explore the problems and
needs of the older people of the state’s population and to recommend the
action necessary to solve them. “So that,” says Governor Warren,
“our senior citizens may live through their later years in dignity,
security and usefulness.”

Robert W. Crawford has been superintendent of recreation in Oakland, California
since 1946. after serving as I'SN Lieutenant Commander Recreation and Welfare
Officer and as Special Service Director, Veterans Administration. He was in-
strumental in setting up one of the first city—wide headquarters for senior citizens
on the West Coast, under public recreation auspices, and received the Oakland
Junior Chamber of Commerce Good Government award in 1948.

Having served the city of Oakland as Chief Warden of the civilian defense pro-
gram during the early part of this year, Mr. Crawford is transferring to the
position of Superintendent of Recreation of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, effec-

tive March 15, 1952.
MARCH 1952

Robert W. Crawford

 

501

RECREATIHN in ME“ nuns

 

,4: Sam, P *

gEFORE any wise plan can be set up for elderly people
or for any other group of people, it is necessary to
have a clearly defined ideal in mind, a target to aim at—a
goal, which perhaps is never reached but toward which
we h0pe to move at any rate. Such an ideal community
would be one in which each member lived the abundant
life of vigorous good health of body and soul, but we find
ourselves involved in definitions. What is good health?
Health is a shibboleth which is on cveryonc’s tongue but
to which .each tongue gives a new meaning. The oculist is
primarily interested in health of the eyes, the cardiologist
in health of the heart and the arteries, the public health
oflicer in freedom from infectious disease, the psychiatrist
in mental well-being. I want to make the point very clear
that health is essentially indivisable. There is no such
thing as a truly healthy body when the spirit is sick, and
there is no such thing as a truly healthy mind and spirit
in a body which is wracked by physical disease. I remeIn-
her a neighbor of ours when I was a little boy who sensed
this truth. She was a very religious person and she wisely
excused the peccadillos of a fellow church member with
the remark that it was very hard for a dyspeptic to enjoy
religion.

Do you and I need to be mentally and emotionally
well? I ask that question because I feel that older people
are like the rest of us. There is no mysterious seachange
which takes place at sixty or sixty-five making the re-
quirements for the abundant life differ in later years from
those of middle age. So what are the things that you and
I need to be truly well and happy? It is precisely on this
point of what we need, and what we imagine we need, that
there is some of the fuzzicst thinking. There is an almost
universal impression, an almost instinctive reaction, that
what we need most is an assured and ever increasing
inflow of possessions, pleasures, friendships, appreciation.
This is the short-sighted, the childish, the egocentric point
of view. When insight becomes mature we then make the
great discovery that what we need most is an outflow of

*Address given by Boston physician at the National Recreation
Congress in October, 1951.

562

Allen G. Brailey, M. D.

interest and creative energy into the community about us.
We are rich not in what we take but in what we give
away. He that seeketh to save his life shall lose it. There
is no more certain way to become sick and miserable than
to have denied to us the opportunity to take an integral
and productive part in the life of the community.

It is here that society has gone astray in its thinking
about older people. It has tended to adopt the viewpoint
that the most delectable state for any man is one of idle-
ness, that the goal of one’s active years is finally to be
supported in idleness, that a grown, mature adult can again
be happy in the condition of the infant wherein he receives
all of his needs from society but no longer makes any
contribution thereto. N 0 one really wants to be idle. No
one wants to be unnecessary, to be shelved, be set aside, a
mere parasite, ornamental perhaps, but useless nevertheless.
Everyone is really happiest when his faculties and capaci-
ties, however meagre, are used to the full. If you will
recall the happy days in your experience, almost without
exception you will find that they have been days when
your energies were wholly taken up in some useful projeet
or enterprise.

For the indigent old, society has made a beginning at
least. In this country it does provide at least a subsistence
of food and shelter, but it is all too apparent that the
results are pitifully inadequate. The bare avoidance of
starvation is no bright substitute for death. Have you ever
visited a City Home, or Home for Indigent Females or
Home for Aged Couples? What haunts me in such places
is not neglect of the body. Often the quarters are clean
and neat and warm enough. But those rows of people
sitting against the wall with bored, listless, hopeless faces,
waiting only for the next meal because they have nothing
else ito do!

Contrast with these dejected, often querulous people the
contented, frequently delightful, older people who live in
our homes or on our streets. I do not think the difference
can be eXplained on a simple economic basis. Nor is it
true that the more fortunate group was necessarily born
with greater resources of character or of capacity for find-

RECREATION

 

ing life interesting. It is rather that thcy still llavc somc-
thing for which to live. They arc still wanted by someone.
Thcy are often still needed in somc essential household
role, such as carpenter, tinker, gardener, babysitter. They
still have a market for their outflow of energy, interest and
affection.

Nevertheless, these pe0ple who make no complaint,
whose lives scem to them and to others quite satisfying,
oftcn tastc only a fraction of the zest of life which might
bc thcirs. Patients of mine who have held positions of
considerable reSponsibility comc to the retiring agc and I
say to them: Do not retire from work, retire to more con-
'genial work,———for the Community Fund, for the Red
Cross, for the church or the schools, for the Scouts. And
they reply: 011, Doctor, you can’t imagine how busy I am.
Why, I spend an hour evcry day edging the lawn; then I
havc to do shOpping for Mary. And there are the grand-
children whom we want to visit every week. They are not
unhappy. They are busy enough to escape boredom; but
thcy are too willing to dally away their days, to let their
special talents and abilities, perfected by long years of
experience, gradually rust away from sheer disuse. And
to the extent that they st0p the outflow of their abilities
into the community and are content to contract into their
own petty selves, to that extcnt they become less healthy.
All too often the change in interest proves lethal and they
come to a premature end. Life is synonymous with growth
and whcn growth st0ps, life is not apt to linger much
longer.

It is easy to divide oldcr people into two classes, the
indigcnt and the independent. To some extent this is
justifiable and inevitable, but this problem of the relation
of life interest to health has nothing to do with monetary
income. I would like to see all older pe0ple meet their

Rcaders:—Dr. Brailey's suggestion of clubs for the
elderly is excellent, but are such clubs the only
answer? Many recreation departments are suc-
cessfully including these people, with other age

groups, in various phases of the general recrea-
tion program—such as squarc dancing, singing,
arts and crafts, parties. Won’t you please write
us briefly, stating your own experience in this
rcSpcct?-—Ed.

 

needs and problems-together and not as two separatcd
economic groups.

The very large majority of oldcr pe0ple who are eco-
nomically independent will shun any effort you make
which has the slightest suggestion of charity. 0n the other
hand if you consider together all the people in your com-
munity who are sixty years old, or older, you will find
that they constitute nearly ten percent of the entire popula-
tion. They control funds enough to finance their own
salvation, if they can only be sparked by the right leader-
ship and inspired by a vision of the possibilities which
they may realize.

Why should not our older folk he organized into clubs,
with both social and busincss aspects, something in the

MARCH 1952

«i w ’ n
.s‘ -< a i ’. g
‘ i
‘- !,..*--.L.--L.Jn..l.u. I 1

 

Mcriden, Connecticut, oldcr folks enjoy the sociability that goes
with a cup of tea; and now have a fine clubhouse of their own.

manner of the National Grange, perhaps? Some of the
functions of such clubs ought to be to find employment in
the business world for those who wish to be employed, to
equip hobby shops for woodworking, weaving, jewelry
making, painting and so 011. Such shops would provide the
delights of teaching for ex-teachers and instruction for
would-be pupils. Such clubs should provide, also, quarters
for dinners, get togethers and fun, with opportunities for
culinary artists to practice their art.

Our mass production civilization has provided us with
an extraordinary number of gadgets which are relatively
cheap. By the same token we have become poor in the ar-
tistic forms which may be expressed in individual hand-
crafts. The handcrafts which such clubs could turn out
might in time prove self-supporting, but whether they earn
their way in whole or in part is not very important. They
would make life happy and significant for a great many
people, if the idea once became p0pular, and such a divi-
dend would surely justify the cost. As you can see, I feel
that the chief distinction between the activities of a man
or a woman before retiring and after retiring should be
that after retiring he ought to be free to do congenial work
and no longer be required to meet a deadline or punch a
time clock.

Is recreation necded for older people? Of course it is.
But recreation is that which recreates and activity which
is recreative for one person may not be recreative for
another. What is needed by our older folk is not more
television sets, more free movies, more moonlight sailing
down the bay. Their recreation should be that which leaves
them with the deep conviction: I still belong to this com-
munity. I have friends herc.and I am needed here. I am
respected by the members of this community both as a
person and for the things which I do to make it a better
community in which to live.

563

WWWSWW

an: or THE MOST INTERESTING and exciting develop-
ments in Winnipeg during the past year has been
the expansion of leisure-time services for senior citizens.

Two years ago, the City of Winnipeg asked the Central
Volunteer Bureau to undertake entertainment for Old Age
Pensioners at the 75th-Birthday Celehrations of the city.
Some three hundred volunteers were involved in this proj-
ect, and after a very successful picnic for over fifteen hun-
dred guests, the volunteers made their report to the bureau.
Time after time their notes and phone calls asked the same
question, “Can more be done for these lonely people? Are
there any facilities for some kind of services for them?”

One of the most vital services volunteers can offer the
community is interpretation. lf they see a need, they can
report it and help meet it; and this is exactly what hap-
pened here. A “Senior Citizens’ Recreation Committee”
was formed by the C.V.B. board and things started.

The first thing, of course, was a study of existing serv-
ices to discover the scope of their work. Many groups are
doing a splendid job: the National Council of Jewish
\Vomen with their Golden Age Club, the Soroptimists with
their Happy Hour Club, the Women’s Presbytery of the
United Church with their Happy Hour Club, and so on.
Committee members put their heads together and pooled
all the learning and experience that could he found. Writ-
ten and printed material from all over the continent was
gathered and studied. A huge Spot map of the city was
prepared, and existing services noted along with data con-
eerning concentration of the p0pulation of senior citizens.

Before any action was taken, the committee thought
carefully about standards of service, quality and type of
program required, and the part to be played by volunteers.
\Vinnipeg is unique in the number of community clubs in
operation in the city. The public parks board has helped
in the building of community centers in many areas, and
the C.V.B. connnittee recognized such centers as ideal
locations for senior citizens’ recreation.

The committee, consisting of hoth professional and lay
representatives of various interested groups, such as the
National Council and the Soroptimist Club, and the School
of Social Work of the University of Manitoba, decided
that before any long-term project could be successful, it
must be tested and proven on a small scale. So a pilot
project was planned.

The Ladies’ Auxiliary of the West-End Memorial Cont-
munity Club was approached and their enthusiastic
e00peration was immediate and encouraging. One of the
hasic principles on which the committee insisted was the
active participation of the senior citizens themselves. The
planning group consisted of some volunteers from the
Ladies’ Auxiliary, some members of the C.V.B. committee,

MISS BAYER is E reeative Secretary, Central Volunteer Ba-
reaa, Department of Welfare Council of Greater Winnipeg.

564

 

Mary Elizabeth Bayer

and a group of senior citizens from the area. Every detail
of organization was carefully considered, and difficulties
were anticipated as far ahead as possible. As a result of
this cautious and deliherate planning, the Pioneer Social
Club at the West-End Memorial is a flourishing sucecss.

The pilot project was moving along nicely when a flood
halted all progress in the work of the committee. However.
some fifty members of the Pioneer Social Club were able
to help with the flood Operations at the center, thereby
proving a second basic principle—-—that the senior citizen
can serve the community as well as be served.

The Broadway-Optimist Community Club was ap-
proachcd next, and here was a real challenge. The area
was large, and the potential membership of the senior eiti-
zen’s group was impossible to estimate. Nonetheless, the
volunteers went to work, and from a handful of fourteen
members, the club mushroomed until it now has over one
hundred and fifty members. They meet for a social after-
noon every Wednesday, and their Glee Club meets on
Friday, their discussion group on Monday afternoons. The
club has filled a real need in terms of offering friendship
to lonely people, activity and interest where there was
horedom, happiness where there was discontent.

Clubs were started in three other centers, and in the
course of one year, regular lcisurc-time services have been
made available for over three hundred senior citizens. in
addition to those already served by other ageneics.

The keynote has been participation by the club mem-
bers themselves. ln a training course offered by the C.V.B.,
for volunteers working with senior citizens. self-govern-
ment by the senior citizens is stressed. The course in-
cludes special techniques of organization and administra-
tion, program planning, financing, intakc, all directed
toward the active participation of the senior club members.
The bureau is ready to offer continuing supervision and
guidance to all volunteers.

The volunteers learn that senior citizens are not “just
like children”, and that—contrary to p0pular belief—they
are mature and sensible adults with a very real cotitrihu-
tion to make to society. They need the help of volunteers,
but they need understanding rather than patronage, and
an opportunity to plan their own show rather than merely
to accept a hand-out. Again and again the importance of
careful advance planning has been emphasized, and volun-
teers have been advised of the resources in the community
which are available to club members.

Without volunteers, such a project as this could never
succeed. Certainly, guidance hy professional workers is
vital, but the final test comes through the volunteer who
must be willing to learn, eager to work and faithful to the
job he or she has accepted.

The pattern has been successfully sketched and tried.
lt is to be hoped that initial success in this field is the
beginning of ever-growing expansion in the matter of well-
planned lcisurc-timc services for our senior citizens.

RECREATION

I4  Qamgaeee

iecreation is synonymous with service. and to the di-
rector of recreaticm there is no grcatcr souree of satisfac-
tion than that of observing the result of his efforts to help
his fellow men to enrich their way of living. It is the smile
on the face of the frecklcd youngster who has hooked a
big one. or the stout lad who has slammed out a homer,
or the little miss who has just learned the art of a graceful
(live. Great as these satisfactions are, however, they are
humble in contrast to the supreme experience of seeing thc
sparkle return to the eyes, a sprightliness to the step of
the "Golden Ager” who has been helped to find a new
meaning to life. The advent of the Golden Age Clubs has
brought happiness to scores of people for whom, previous-
ly, each dreary day had been the same as the one pre-
ceding it.

Only the ingenuity and imagination of the person in
charge can limit the program of the Golden Agers. Crea-
tive and cultural pursuits, social activities and even mild
athletic endeavors all fit well into a scheme of things. It
all starts with the simple idea of meeting pe0ple of similar
ages, tastes and ideals, of chatting over old times and hav-
ing the Opportunity of preparing and eating suitable re-
freslnnents together.

The .majority of Golden Age Clubs follow the principle
of eliminating dues, to spare embarrassment to anyone,
but giving to those who want to help out financially in
some way, however small, a chance to contribute. A re-
ceptacle is placed somewhere in the clubroorns and any
member who so desires, may drop something into the
kitty.

The Golden Age Club of Meriden, Connecticut, was or-
ganized in April 1951 as one of the services of the de-
partment of recreation. A series of newspaper articles pre-
eeded the opening session so that the elderly pe0ple were
somewhat prepared for what was to come. The first meet-
ing was a huge success; and of the group of men on the
speaker’s platform, all were over eighty—each a leader and
still actively engaged in his own special field. One was
Mr..Arthur Williamson, eighty-one—year-old Westchester
artist, who exhibits his paintings every year, and another,
Mr. Joseph B. Zellman, who has twice appeared on the
television show “Life begins at Eighty.” Mr. Zellman is
actively engaged in teaching music in Meriden and main-
tains his own studio.

On every Saturday afternoon, the Girl’s Club cooperated
by loaning its facilities. These consisted of a large gymna-
sium, with kitchen and dressing rooms all on the same
floor. The thirty-five charter members of the club felt
that more people should be brought into the fold, and
each member was delighted to help out in this respect. In
six weeks there were sixty-five registered members, with
about sixty faithfully attending every meeting. With the
advent of hot weather it was decided to curtail the weekly

MR. COOK is the Superintendent of Recreation in Meriden.

MARCH 1952

 

\Villiam B. Cook

meetings in favor of periodic outings. Three of these were
held at various plaees in Meriden, one of them a joint
meeting with a group from Shclton. All concerned en-
joyed the joint meeting so much that it was decided to
hold a larger meeting in September, which would include
as many clubs as possible.

In the meantime, activity went on for the Meriden
group. One of the local theatres opened its doors to the
Golden Agers once a week, a local sportsman took the
male members deep sea fishing, and one of the local tele-
vision stores donated a TV set to the club. It is loaned
out, at two-week intervals, to shut-ins—to bring happiness
and a glimpse of the ouside world to those unable to come
to the meetings.

For the joint jamboree in Meriden, invitations were
sent to clubs in Shelton, New Haven, New Britain, Hart-
ford and East Hartford. All of these agreed to meet with
the Meriden club on September 22, 1951, for a (lay of en-
tertainment, discussions, exlfibits and lunch. Oldest among
the two hundred to two hundred fifty Golden Agers attend-
ing, and one of the most active, was ninety-nine-year-old
George Worcester, Vice President of the New Haven Club.

 

Singing is popular with everyone, and the Meriden Golden Agers
are no exception. All enjoyed a fine time at the joint meeting.

The program got under way at ten am. when Reverend
George Hagendorn was called upon for the invocation. The
program included greetings by Mayor Howard E. Houston,
an invitation to visit the Bradley Home, addresses by each
of the various club presidents, and a speech by Mr. Hector
Le Maire, Director of Education at the Rocky Hill Veter-
an’s Hospital. Dr. Bertram Ball, president of the New
Haven club, was elected chairman for the coming year.
Highlight of the day was the announcement that the city
would make the Andrews Homestead, historical landmark
in Meriden, available to the Golden Agers for their club
rooms. Thus, the Meriden group will be one of the few
clubs now maintaining its own clubhouse—a headquarters
available for use at any hour of the day or night.

565

 

How To Do |T  

Make gour own basebaH bases.

     
  
   

" '~ ---- ~    MATEmALs

LOld fire hose.
2.1%inch boh‘s.
3.V%15hers.

  WhiTe Palm;

|. For each bo'se cu1~ six Pieces of fire hose leeen inghe‘s \onq.
2.ka ‘Hnree hobs in each piece of fire ‘bcisg: ..

'."  ‘3‘ l'

5/9 /7’0.se

\

1.0/79 p/‘eces of hose can be 6560/ for foa/ M795. Dr/ue /0nq
spikes Mm f/re base a/’ 5M foof m7?” va/s f0 ho/a’ m p/ace .

.360 RECREATION

   

One party group used page headings
as part of the decoration. High on
each blank space of wall they stapled
large colored letters that spelled out
SOCIETY, ART, COMICS, SPORTS, HOUSE-
HOLD, CLASSIFIED ADS, and so on. Un-
der these headings appeared appro-
priate news items—most of them in-
cluding names of people present. You
can easily imagine that there was
“never a dull moment” at this party!
Everyone found something of interest
and amusement, somewhere on the
wall. Those who found their own
names added most to the laughter. (In-
cidentally, all news items had been
carefully checked by the general chair-
man before they were posted. The ob-
ject was to keep people amused-—even
at someone else’s expense, but in a
friendly, kindly manner. Had anyone
gone home with hurt feelings the par-
ty would have been better without these
news items!)

MISS SCANLON is a training specialist
in social recreation on the NRA staff.

MARCH 1952

H ERE’S THE LATEST; but it’s not really news! For many years now,
THE NEWSPAPER has ranked high on the list of popular themes for prize winning

parties, and it’s easy to understand why. The program possibilities that prcsent

themselves along this line are limitless.

Just think of all the different columns, sections and page headings in the
average paper. These alone provide innumerable ideas for program, decoration
and refreshments. The way in which such ideas are used will depend on the
peOple who are using them. Therc could be onc hundred newspaper parties and

not two of them alike!

Another group, giving the same kind
of party, used a pre-party activity that
was in keeping with the theme. All
about the room, the committee had
posted pictures of people famous in
the news, and placed a number on
each. The pictures were mounted on
colored paper and arranged in hap-
hazard manner. Some were high on
the walls, some low; some were easy
t‘b find, some not; and no attempt had
been made to keep them in numerical
order. Upon arrival, each player was
given a pencil and paper and told to
number his paper from one to twenty.
This accomplished, he was free to
wander from picture to picture, and
beside the corresponding number on
his own paper, he was to write his
identification of the person in each
picture.

The pictures had been clipped from
any and every page in the paper! The
people who read only the front page
had no trouble at all recognizing the
local hero of the day whose deeds (and
face) had recently appeared in the

news. Younger readers who devote so
much time to the comics found their
favorites on the wall, too! The town
fathers easily identified the mayor,
town clerk and superintendent of
schools—who were also “among those
present.” The high school group quick-
ly recognized their football captain,
coach and others. Perhaps no one play-
ing the game could identify all of the
pictures, but there was almost no play-
er who could not identify some. The
committee had considered every age
and interest group.

Special events of the evening have
sometimes been fitted into the “page

idea.” The stage has been designated
as the FASHION PAGE and at some
point in the evening a fashion show is
presented. Even the “fashions” thus
become part of the program. First, the
players are divided into teams. Each
team is given a pile of newspapers and
a bundle of toothpicks. At a signal
from the leader, each team dresses one
of its own members in the “latest.” At
the end of the time allocated, usually

567

aboul ten minutes, each team sends ils
model backslage while other members
get the best seat they can find to view
the feature production.

A fashion commentator is a “must.”
Someone from the local radio slalion
is usually glad to help out in this re-
spect. Last, but far from least, comes
an accompanist. A good pianist, who
can quickly think of an appropriate
tune for each model, will do much to
insure the success of the show. Some
numbers that are frequently used are
“A Pretty Girl,” “Paper Doll,” “Pretty
Baby,” “Oh, You Beautiful Doll,”
“Sweet and Lovely,” “School Days,”
“Here Comes the Bride” and “By the
Sea, By the Sea, By the Beautiful
Sea.” Some of these can be used with
almost any model, others for only cer-
tain ones. But you can be almost sure
of at least one hride, and one bathing
beauty (usually the biggest man pres-
ent) appearing in the show.

To allow more leeway and provide a
greater variety of models, the teams
are sometimes allowed to draw from
any page instead of just the fashion
page. The name of the event then
often becomes PARADE OF PEOPLE
WIIo MAKE THE NEws. In this in-
stance, lndians, Hawaiians, sailors, sol-
diers, baseball players usually appear,
too. In either event, this part of the
program is very likely to be the hit of
lhe evening.

Refreshment corners, or tables, have
been labeled HOUSEHOLD in keeping
wilh the page heading idea. One group,
however, served refreshments from the
PRESS BOX—over which hung a large
sign, “Eat, drink and be merry, for to-
morrow you meet a deadline.”

Once, when one of the committee
members happened to be a talented
artist, he was established with his
easel, charcoal and other equipment
under the heading COMICS. Here he
quickly sketched pictures of anyone
who cared to sit for a portrait. When
each was completed it was hung on the
wall, for COMIC PACE behind the art-
ist. Everyone present, whether or not
he had courage to sit himself, en-
joyed looking at the “comics.” People
who posed claimed their pictures at
[he end of the party, and had a sou-
venir to take home with them.

To promole this activity, a person

568

dressed as a well known comic
ellaractcr went among the participants
distributing pamphlets which said,

“See You In the Funnies,” and told
about the artist and his part in the
evening’s program.

17 or general atmosphere, Committees
have been known to wear green eye
shades and pencils behind their ears.
Photographers with real or make be-
lieve cameras have rushed here and
[here taking pictures. Roving re-
porters have gone about asking per-
fectly ridiculous questions. Women
who represent Dorothy Dix, the editor
of Advice to the Lovelorn and similar
columns have added immeasurably to
the spirit of the occasion. Front door,
first night type of interviews, set the
stage, as it were, early! Needless to say,
the success of these ventures depends
greatly upon the people who take the
leading parts in them!

Program, or special activities, can
be thought up or adapted. A varia-
tion of the game, “Animated Alpha-
bet,” has been used often. Instead of
forming words, however, the teams in
this case “make the headlines.” Two
teams, of twenty-eight players each,
are lined up on either side of the
room, facing each other. Each team
is given a different colored set of al-
phabet cards. Each player on the team

 

holds one letter. The leader reads
aloud a headline. Players, from each
team, holding the letters used in the
headline hurry to a designated spot
and arrange themselves in proper se-
quence——that is, so that the headline
can easily be read by the remainder
of the group. First team to accomplish
this wins a poinl! Headlines that can
he used include: Big Sale; Man Biles
Dog; ShOp Early; Give Now; Cab
Lost; and so on. (Such headlines use a
given lclter only once!)

The old game of “Reuben and Ba-

chel” can be played as “Maggie and
Jiggs.” Both are in the center of a

circle formed by the other players.
Maggie is blindfolded. She calls Jim:

CD“
who ohcdiently answers, “Here Mag-
gie!” Wherenpon Maggie reaches out
and tries lo grab him. Bul Jiggs,
knowing what will happen if he gets
caught,‘ducks and dodges and tries to
escape her clutches. Maggie continues
calling and Jiggs promptly answers-#
until as always, he’s caught. (The eir-
cle may have to close in repealed!)
until poor Jiggs has no chance to es-

cape, but the end is always the same.)

“Doghouse” is also a variation of an
old favorite. Players are seated in a
horseshoe formation. One player,
“Dagwood” sits alone in front of and
facing the group. The place where he
is sitting is known as the “doghouse”
—-—the place where Dagwood spends
most of his time. But Dagwood doesn’t
like to be in the doghouse, so he calls
on his friends to help him out. These
are so numerous he cannot remember
all their names. So he calls them by
number. (Players are numbered from
left to right around the horseshoe.
Highest number is Dagwood’s. All
players retain their original numbers
throughout game.) The players desig-
nated by the numbers Dagwood calls
must jump up and trade places. Dag-
wood meanwhile tries to get into one
of the vacated seats. The player left
without a seat has to go into the dog-
house; and he becomes known as Dag-
wood#——even though he retains his
original number. When Dagwood be-
comes hard pressed he calls loudly on
his very best friend—“Blondie.” When
he does, everyone must get up and
change seats. Dagwood is almost sure
lo get out of the doghouse on this
move.

The perennial pattern of charades
may be easily adapted to newspaper
themes. Such slogans as, “All the
news that’s fit to print,” or famous
editorial names may be used.

There are many other games, and
many other ideas which can be adapted
to a Newspaper Party. These are only
a few that have been tried! When you
have your newspaper party, won’t you
please send us an account of some of
the things you found most successful?
We’d like lo hear about them.

RECREATION

0 The lieereation and Park Yearbook

for 1950 made available for the first
time information as to the total ex-
penditures by munieipalities for ree-
reation and park serviee. The year-
book figures provide the basis for
eomparisons of reereation and park
expenditures by eities of varying p0pu-
lation groups. The table that follows
indieates the per eapita expenditures
in 403 eities that reported the employ-
ment of full-time, year-round reerea-
tion leadership in 1950 and also the
amount spent for reereation and park
serviees. It affords an answer to the
question that is often asked: “What
do other eities in our population group
spend for parks and reereation?”

It will be noted from the following

table that the highest per eapita ex-

Per Capita
Expenditures

for

penditures are found, on the average,
in the eities under 25,000 in popula-
tion. Cities between 25,000 and 50,000
spend the least per eapita and the
larger eities spend inereasingly more.
No group of eities over 50,000, how-
ever, spent as nlueh in 1950 as the
three groups with an under 25,000
population.

Also, in the table, only eurrent ex-
penditures for operation, maintenanee
and leadership are reeorded—oapital
items are omitted. Cities spending
more than three dollars per eapita for
parks and reereation outnumber those
spending less than two dollars. The
average per eapita expenditure was
between two and three dollars per
eapita. Thirty eities spent five dollars
or more per eapita in 1950.

TOTAL EXPENDITURES

 

Table I

Number Average

lieereatieu

Population of per
Group Cities Capita

Under 5,000 17 $6.30 -—-
5,000 - 10,000 41 $3.37 ---

10,000 - 25,000 92 $2.78 1

 25,000 - 50.000 84 $2.19 3

50.000 - 100,000 78 $2.34 1
100,000 - 250,000 55 $2.40 —
250,000 and over 36 $2.64 —

Totals 403 $2.70 5

I
I’m ks
Table 11, whieh follows, indieates

the per capita expenditures for leader-

, ship salaries and wages in 373 eities
{i with full-time, year-round leadership.
" In general, the average per eapita ex-
penditure for leadership deereases

with the size of the eity. The highest

’/ per eapita expenditure is made in eities
under 5,000; the lowest, in eities be-

Number of Cities with Per Capita
Expenditure of

 

Under $.50 $1.00 $1.50 $2.00 $3.00 $4.00 $5.00

to to to to to to and

$.50 $.99 $1.49 $1.99 $2.99 $3.99 $4.99 Over

1 1 1 4 2 2
3 1 6 14 6 5
6 18 15 23 17 4
9 18 14 24 11 2
5 14 17 24 7 6
3 8 14 17 8 5
—~ 5 6 16 6 —

73 122 57 24 30

m|®wmmm

27 65

tween 100,000 and 250,000. Cities
spending less than fifty eents per eapi-
ta equal in number those spending
between fifty eents and one dollar. A
total of sixty-five eities spent more
than one dollar per eapita for leader-
ship in 1950. The number of these

spending in exeess of two dollars

doubled sinee 1948.

LEADERSHIP EXPENDITURES

Table II

' Number Average

Population of per
Group Cities Capita
Under 5,000 13 $1.90
5,000- 10,000 34 $1.09
10,000- 25,000 85 $ .74
25,000- 50,000 83 $ .63
50,000-100,000 71 3 .55
100,000-250,000 53 $ .48
250,000 and over 34 $ .51
Totals 373 S .68

Under $.25 $.50

Number of Cities with Per Capita
Expenditure of

$.75 $1.00 $1.50 $2.00

to to to to to and
$.25 $.49 $.74 $.99 $1.49 $1.99 Over

— 1 1 2 4 4
—~ 4 9 5 10

4

8 27 28 9 7
12 29 13
13

1
3 3
22 23 22 9 4 1
2 2
7 ..... ._...
16 15 5 4 — -——
6 _ _

5 14 8
42 113 97 56 45 10 10

 

MARCH 1952

JOBS WITH A PLUS

IN THE YWCA

Emphasis on Creative Leadership
Regui“ Bachelor's degree and

rienoe,

suc 15 Recreation—Gmup-‘Vork— caching.

\‘l'rite to Personnel Services,
National Board, YWCA
600 Lexington Avenue, New York 22, N.Y.

 

  

Comparisons of total recreation and
park expenditures in 1950 and in pre-
ceding years are not possible because
total park expenditures were included
in the yearbook for 1950, for the first
time. Leadership expenditures, how-

inerease in the per capita expenditure
for recreation leadership in every
population group between 1946 and
1950. During this period [he average
per capita figure, for all the cities re-
porting, inereased forty-five per cent

DO YOU HAVE OUR
1952 CATALOG?

Absolutely FREE

Thls catalag Ieatures a
complete selection of

ever, have been reported in each year-

book. Table III indicates the marked

during the four year period.

      
 
     
   
       
     

 

"anorexia"
surpuss

   

LEADERSHIP EXPENDITURES 1946, 1948, 1950

 

 

 

 

handicraft sapplies far Table 
leather work, wood .
_ burning, art work, spray POPUIaIIOIl Average Per Capita Leadership Expenditure for
"-— painting, iead casting Group 1946 1943 1950
d any th r ethods -
:zmpn'.” 3.:crib'2d and Urgder 5,0100 ........... ..   $1.12 $1.44 $1.90
.CHOCK Fall. "hunt,th Id.“ for group ,000-  .................................................. ..   
of BIRTHDAY educatian or personal use. | 109000 ' 25,000 .................................................. .. .46 .59 .74
 or"; CLEVELAND CRAFTS co. 25,000-  .................................................. .. .37 .44 .63
GIFT IDEAS, Deptz R 50,000 - 100,000 .................................................. .. .35 .43 .55
' 73C? CIR-mgwa A531"! 100,000 - 250,000 .................................................. .. .23 .34» .48
We“ ' 0 250.000 and over ..............................  ......... .. . .32 .41 .51
Totals ................................................................. .. $ .47 $ .57 S .68

THE NEW 9TH EDITION

HANDICRAFT

BY lESTER GRISWOLD
Colorado Springs, Colorado

SIMPLIFIED
PROCEDURE 8; PROJECTS

Baskets-y Lapidary
Bookbinding Leathercraft
Ceramics Metalcraft

Cordon!!! Plastics

Fabric Decoration Weaving
\Voodworking

PRICE $4.00

Order from Booksellers and Craft Supply
Dealers

0 Gymnaslum Equipment

0 Telescoplc Gym Seats

0 Basketball Scoreboards
0 Basketball Backstops

0 Steel Lockers, Lockerobes
and Grade-Robes

Ware {on W;
RED MEDART PRODUCTS,IN(.

566 DE KAlB ST. ST. lOUIS l8, M0.

For 78 Years
The Standard Of Quality

 

 

Arts and Crafts for Reereation at a

State University

At Minnesota University the Art-
eraft Workshop makes an important
contribution to the overall program of
the Student Union. Not only does it
add variety but it broadens the rec-
reational spirit of the whole. The arts
of woodworking, metal smithing, weav-
ing, leatherworking, ceramics, graphic
arts and photography, carried on un-
der the same roof with the rest of the
program of games, entertainments,
club work and cultural activity, bring
new personalities to Coilman Memorial
Union and at the same time Open up to
all the students a sense of the many-
sidedness of college life.

Experience has proved that basic
hand tools, of professional quality,
should be purchased at the beginning.
Then a program of major purehases
of power tools should be laid down.
As amount of basie equipment has ex-
panded, and as the number of students
using it has increased, the more frothy
ornamental crafts have disappeared.
This fact indicates the really funda-
mental character 'of college students’
manual arts needs. The more trivial
crafts had a natural demise. An exam-
ple is the discontinuance of picture
frame mouldings. Many pictures are

 

——v——-—-

 

 

The above information submitted by
FRANK VERRALL, Supervisor of Art-
craft Workshop, Univ. of Minnesota.

framed at the shop, but the students
now start with raw lumber. Thus they
are brought face to face with a signi-
ficant design problem.

This policy is being applied system-
atically wherever it is apparent that
the simplicity, expressiveness and
character of the work can be bound
up with the material itself. It would
be easy for a shop of this kind to de-
generate into a sort of department
store or procurement service. To avoid
this, a progressive simplification of
the stocks of raw materials has been
made to follow a thorough-going plan,
in step with the development of shop
patterns, shop ways of doing things
and a craftsman’s instinct in the stu-
dents themselves.

Experimentation disclosed that the
best system of handling tools is to
abandon “checking out” and to place
them in racks, at the benches where
the work is to be done. To accomplish
this and maintain a flexible use of
space the shop is divided by movable
screens. As a result the loss of hand
tools has sharply decreased.

General aims of the work can be
characterized in terms of the growth
of the students’ relationships to one
another, of their understanding of
tools as extensions of their eommon
culture, their relationship to the staff
and the university.

RECREATION

 

ANYONE CAN MAKE A “PAPER SHOW,”
by Taiko Abe

A “Paper Show,” like lantern slides, consists of a series
of pictures; only these are drawn on paper to illustrate
the story to be told. Anyone can enjoy making it,.with
simple materials, and use it at home, at parties and gather-
ings, in classrooms and Sunday schools. Actually, its con-
struction can be an excellent group project.

Use either the cover or the bottom of a cardboard box
for the frame. The most practical size varies according to
the use that is to be made of it. If it is to be shown before
a group of more than twenty persons, about twenty by
fifteen inches might be appropriate. A smaller one can be
used for individual or small group enjoyment.

Cut off the top of one of the longer sides. The frame
must be of the right depth to hold the number of paper-
slidcs with a little extra room. If it is too deep, cut off the
three sides to the required depth. Attach another piece of
cardboard to the back, about half of the height of the box
from the bottom, so that the paper-slides will not fall down.
If you use the cover of the box, the bottom can be cut into
two and pasted to the back.

Leave about a one-inch margin and cut out the center of
the surface of the box straight, wavelike, or with whatever
design you want. Paste pretty paper on it or paint it with
your favorite color. This is your frame.

Draw and paint the illustrations of your story on draw-
ing paper, just the size to fit into the frame. Remember
that one inch at all sides will be hidden behind the frame.
If the paper is not strong enough to stand straight, paste
it on cardboard. Mark the number of the series on the
back of the pictures. Put them in order and place them

 

within the frame. Now your Paper Show is ready.
Set the frame on a high table. If an easel is available.
it will work well. Stand behind or at the side of the frame

MARCH 1952

MAKEIT YHUHSELF

and as you tell your story, pick up one paper-slide each and
place it behind the whole series as you go on. The same
frame can, of course, be used for different sets of pictures.

Children of all ages can easily make their own Paper
Show. They will not only enjoy the process of making it,
but can learn to draw and paint as well as to use their
imaginations to create their own stories, or to visualize
those they already know. This will also encourage them to
tell stories in front of people.

Paper Shows can be given as gifts to children, and often
prove more novel and exciting than ordinary story books.
Teachers of grade schools, high schools and Sunday
schools can use this device in classrooms, for educational
purposes; and it will be a highlight of entertainment at
children’s gatherings of any sort.

PLAN F OR EASELS

This is a clever little device for children’s art classes. It
was designed by Arthur Tripp of the Brattleboro recrea-
tion department for use by little children in the community
center, and is of simple construction.

1. Legs
2. Centerblock

3. Cross pieces

4. Lock piece

Construction Details

 

a) Use scrap lumber 9%;
inch square, for legs
and cross pieces.

b) Hardwood center
block, 1/2 inch by 11/2 - 2
inch.

c) Lockpiece loose on one A
leg, fastened to other 4": 0‘
leg with hook—*this \\

holds easel in place
for use. Unlock, and
easel folds for stor-
age.

Four-foot height suitable for children eight to twelve
years of age, seated 011 chairs. Allow three and one-half
feet for bench seating.

Hinge detail

Use one-inch, square strap hinges

571

Community Programs

Include Servicemen.

VVEEK—EN D PACKAGE TOURS

Great success has been eXperieneed
with a “package program” for service
personnel, by communities as far away
as three hunder miles from a military
installation. Usually the program in-
volves a combination of sightseeing
or a tour including one or two of the
following: a dance, party, movie, din-
ner at a private home, a sports or
cultural event.

A responsible group in the com-
munity organizes the program for a
specified number of men. The event
starts on a Friday night or Saturday
morning, and ends on Sunday after-
noon or evening. The local community
arranges for lodging and meals at
special rates. Some of the events are
free, some are at reduced ratcs and
some at full cost. Frequently, the mili-
tary services arrange for transporta-
tion. but when they cannot do so, an
alternate is to secure bus transporta-
tion from the community at a special
The entire cost is esti-
mated and a set price is charged for
the entire “package.” The post com-
mander is informed of the details.

group rate.

Air Force Particularly Interested

Bccause many air force installations
are located in remote sections of the
country, the Office of Community
Services of the Air Force is highly in
favor of the “package programs.” A
fine example of the Operation of such
a project is furnished by the Mountain
Home Air Force Base in ldaho and
the citizens of Ogden, {ital}. Many of
the men at the base are Negroes, and

Ogden—although three hundred fifty

miles away—has approximately thirty-

572

five hundred Negro citizens.

A Negro sergeant in the special
services ofiice at the base got in touch
with the director of the Wall Street
Community Center, a facility of the
city parks and recreation department
in Ogden. The director of the center
discussed the subject with his board of
directors, who are leading Negro resi-
dents of Ogden. With the cooperation
of citizens and the staff of the center,

the following services were planned:

a) Overnight hotel and room accommo-
dations at reasonable rates.

b) A Saturday night dinner dance.

c) Junior and senior hostesses.

d) Sunday morning church and social
hours.

The Mountain Home Air Force Base

staff provided the following:

a) Seventy-two hour passes because of the
three-hundrcd-fiity-milc bus ride.

b) Chartered Greyhound busses, on which
the men were given special round-trip rates.

c) Supervisory detail.

(I) Ample advance notice to the local
committee of the number of men taking the
trip.

In reporting on this particular proj-
ect, the Regional Representative of
the Office of Community Services,
Howard Bcr'esford, said:

“The success of the project depends
upon a good citizen committee and
solid neighborhood support. This is
particularly helpful in securing hotel
and restaurant accommodations. A
major complication of the first trip
resulted from the arrival of more men
than had been planned for, so that
some of them had to be accommodated
in the ballroom at the center.

“lt should be noted that the men
expect to pay for round-trip bus fare,
hotel accommodations and a reasona-
ble charge for the dinner and dance.

“This type of project is far more
practical than those wherein hostesses
are transported (an equal distance) to
the base for dances. The latter was
tried at Mountain Home, but too many
difiiculties resulted to make it worth a
second try.

“Limitations should be placed upon
the number taking any one trip, to
conform with the resources, number of
hostesses and overnight housing ac-
commodations available in the com-
munity. The excursion privilege should
be rotated among smaller groups of
men rather than among too large a
number at one time. Good behavior
should be one of the requisites for par-

ticipation in later excursions.”

LITTLE TO\VNS — BIG TO\VNS

Hutchinson, Kansas———One hundred
fifty airmen based at a weather station
have become a vital part of the com-
munity reercation program. The age
range of these men runs from about
They

participate in the activities at the city

twenty to twenty-four years.

youth center on Friday and Saturday
nights, attend the weekly square
dances, hold monthly parties at the
center with junior hostesses from the
nearby hospital training school. They
entered a team in thc city softball
league, are working with the local
high school in producing dramatic
shows, have entered teams in the local
bowling league and the industral bas-
ketball league.

Another small group of airmen at a
radar base near \Vaverly, lowa, spend
their off-duty hours in the nearby com-
munities of Waverly, Cedar Falls and
Waterloo.

Waverly, Iowa—In this town of about
five thousand people, the local high
school and college gyms are available
to servicemen. They participate in the
softball league, attend the local
churches and Saturday evening parties
at the community center.

Cedar Falls, Iowa—An Armed Forces
Committee is headed by the recreation
director. Arrangements have been
made to work the men into the college
activities and to provide them with
tickets to the college games. Under
the guidance of a committee including
thc recreation director and the YMCA, '

an information burcau has been set

RECREATION

up at the “Y”. Tickets to movies and
other commercial events are provided.
Waterloo, Iowa ——An Armcd Forccs
Committee includes representation
from the recreation department, the
churches, the Chamber of Commerce
and the private agencies. llere, also,
thc YMCA serves as the information
center, provides swimming and other
free privileges.

Richmond, V irginia—Tlle Chaperon’s
Group of the Department of Recrcation
and Parks, was organizcd a year ago
to hclp provide social recreation op-

portunities for weck-cnd servicemen
visitors. It was formed at the request
of the Richmonds Hotels, Incorporated.

 

A party for servicemen in lounge of Youth Center of Tacoma,
\Vashington. Sponsored by thc Tacoma Council of Churches.

The hotel organization agreed to pro-
vide space in the hotels whenever pos-
sible, if the recreation department
would conduct the dances. The Chaper-
on's Group, today, numbers some
fifteen hundred girls, who are care-
fully interviewed and sclected. A code
of ethics for the girls is followed.

The first annual report comments:
“The numbers of men returning, week
after week, to the dances is most grati-
fying. Nearly cveryone shed tears
when the time came—almost a year
after the start of the dances—to say
goodbye to the Forty-third Division,
which was leaving for EurOpean duty.
The few parties, after the last of the
Division sailed, were almost like “old
home week”—when the familiar faces
of those who did not go overseas ap-
peared at the door. So many eXpres-
sions of appreciation have come from
the men that they cannot be listed.”

1n the first year of its Operation, the
Chaperon’s Group furnished partners
for thirty-eight Saturday night dances,

MARCH 1952

twelve company parties and six addi-
tional activities.

Denver, Colorado—The rccrcation de-
partment scrves many of the armed
forces pcrsonnel stationed there
through its regular program. A large
attendance of scrviccmcn is thc usual
case at all park band concerts and
adult square dances; a considerable
number of servicemen appear on the
mobile talent program, known as the
Show Wagon. The Lowry Field base-
ball team plays in the department’s
City League and, in fact, won the
State semi-pro championship. A large
numher of all-military teams are in
the softball leagues, in addition to

many individuals who play with civilian
teams. The department sponsors spe-
cial programs, including hostesses from
all centers for on-post affairs, and all
centers concentrate on activities for
weekends for military personnel.
Detroit, Michigan—Recently a bat-
talion of anti-aircraft tr00ps on manue-
vers in the area were invited, by the
recreation section of the Employees
Services Department of the Ford Mo-
tor Company, to use the recreation fa-
cilities of the plant. Ray C. Kooi,
recreation supervisor, reports: “These
men made use of our gymnasium,
swimming pool and other facilities.
We were happy to extend this courte-
sy, and the servicemen were glad of
the opportunity to make use of the
facilities.”

Chandler, Arizona—The whole town
turned out for a mammoth celebra-
tion to express their appreciation of
the contribution of the Williams Air
Force Base to local growth and pros-
perity. A highlight of the day was a

barbccuc for the two thousand scrvice-
men and their families. Softball games,
playground programs and popular and
square dancing were included in thc
day’s program.

Phoenixville, Pennsylvania — John
Magyar, the local rccreation cxecutivc,
spends his sparc time as a voluntcer
on the rehabilitation staff of the Valley
Forge Hospital. Famed for its pros-
thetic appliances and re-edueation of
men using them, Valley Forge makcs
good use of swimming and pool sports

Mr.

111 its rchabilitation program.

Magyar teaches swimming and, as an
American lied Cross water safety in-
structor, trained all of the senior life

 

All games appeal to servicemen if they are made to feel wel-
come. Leaders should coopcratc with special service offieers.

savers at the liOSpital. His particular
specialty is working with problem
cases deSpondent because they feel that
they cannot swim and cngage in other
sports. Although he, himself, has lost
an arm, Mr. Magyar teaches and
demonstrates the crawl stroke.
Metuchen, New Jersey—At nearby
Camp Kilmer armed services personnel
and their dependents are beginning to
know this city well. Through the co-
Operation of the Metuchen recreation
department, Santa Claus arrived on
the post, via helicopter last Christmas,
to visit the hundreds of children of the
camp personnel.

A conference of the Camp Kihner
special service officer with the recrea-
tion executives from Plainjield, Lin-
den, Elizabeth, Rahway, Perth Amboy,
New Brunswick and Metuchen, ar-
ranged by J. W. Faust, NRA District
Representative, and Anthony Serge,
Metuchen’s recreation superintendent,
was held to work out detailed plans
for camp-community cooperation.

573

 

IT WAS ABOUT THE TIME of the final Rundstedt drive in

Belgium that I began to realize the importance of the
program taking place almost daily in our municipal swim-
ming pool in Santa Maria, California. Here we were hold-
ing classes for army air cadets, parachute release lessons
over water for army flyers and training troops from one
of the large, nearby camps.

A telephone call from a colonel made me see that it was
a matter of life or death for many of these people. “I have
some valuable personnel in my outfit whom I can’t afford
to lose, and I find they can’t swim. What can you do in
the way of helping them?”

That afternoon a group of men and women officers from
the medical corps appeared for instruction. It is hoped
the lessons given them during that short period were of
some benefit.

For my own information, I had run a survey on tr00ps
who came in for instruction, as to why they hadn’t learned
to swim before entering the army. Their replics were typi-
cal “Ma kept me out ’cause I’d catch cold,” “Was obliged
to go out for other sports in school,” “No place to swim,”
“Afraid of water,” and so on.

Meanwhile the war ended and when casualties were

Author NELSON, having been life guard, member Los An-
geles Athletic club swimming team, has written feature
aquatic articles, and is director recreation, Santa Maria.

574

Paul Nelson

A MATTER OF LIFE

or Death

counted, fifty-five per cent of our fatalities during naval
and amphibious operations were the result of drownings.
lf that figurc isn’t rough enough for you, add a cool seven
thousand civilians who drown annually. Shocking, isn’t it?

Have you ever talked with some of the boys who rcturned
to tell of seeing their buddies drown in a hole while wad-
ing ashore on a beach head . . . of trying to stay afloat . . .
of others able to swim only a few strokes? Do you know
that they gave our men swimming lcssons in hostile terri-
tory, with armed lookouts posted about to ward off enelny
snipers?

Did we lcarn from experience? Well, here we are in
another conflict. Again we see troops arriving in truck
loads at the plunge . . . non-swimmers mostly, some who
can paddle a little . . . youngsters in great part, fresh out
of school.

Reasonable Safety in the Water

Suppose we break down this swimming into what con-
stitutes reasonable safety. Just being able to swim a short
distance is not enough. Have you ever thought what hap-
pens after you swim that ‘short distance’ with open water
about? Your strength is spent, you are tired and worried.
Now what do you do? It’s a question that has come into
more than one panicky head before it slipped under water.

There are many organizations giving instruction in
swimming, principally the American Red Cross which has
exerted itself to the utmost in an attempt to make the pub-
lic conscious of the importance of water safety. However,
with all their effort, it is not enough.

While attending a state of California recreation con-
ference in San Diego, I participated in a panel on aqua-
tics. Together with other water dogs, we were concerned
about the new conflict, and knowing the history of losses
during the last year, we needed no warning to realize the
seriousness of the situation.

The best time to start swimming instruction is when the
youngster is about nine years of agc. But when the student
enters high school, an intensified watcr safety program
should be taught by instructors chosen with the same
care as the school board uses in hiring the best in foot-

ball brains.

Not Enough Expert Instruction

Many schools have pools, swimming instructors, too, and
excellent programs, but I’m certain that in the majority

RECREATION

of cases, if checked by an expert, one would find them
woefully lacking. In fact, the class work would usually
boil down to an “activity” period.

You can’t always blame the head coach. He or his
assistants, as a rule, have “taken swimming” at college,
but actually they are about as qualiflcd to leach aquatics
as the swim coach is qualified to teach top football. After
all, his job depends on a winning football, basketball, base-
ball or track team and the busy alumni see that he stays
on the beam.

Swimming does not come naturally to anyone. It is
something all of us must learn. And what a relief it would
be to the army and navy to know that their personnel were
trained to take care of themselves before joining! It costs
a mint of money to train a service mail in the ways of
war, but to st0p this and give him a swimming lesson . ..

With millions of dollars being spent for education, it is
my fond hope that educators throughout the nation will
recognize the importance of water safety, that complacency
and manana will be set aside and that physical education
departments will recognize its true value. Large biceps are
of little use if they can’t support the bearer in emergency.

Pool During War
Beginning March 23, 1942 and continuing to V] Day, a

total of 16,183 military personnel used our municipal
plunge facilities. A large part of the participants were
required to try to learn in a few days, or weeks at the
most, various methods of water safety. At that time, these
tr00ps realized that within a few weeks they would have
to ship out, and it was naturally of great concern to their
superiors as well as themselves that they master something
of the art of keeping afloat.

various Methods of Training

In addition to the usual swimming tests, students from

the air corps were taught parachute release and fall. The
student was hoistcd by means of a pulley attached to
plunge rafters. At a speciftcd height a trip cord caused
him to fall. After entry into the water he rid himself of
cl1utc harness, inflated his life jacket, shook out his rub-
ber boat, inflated it and paddlcd to the end of the pool
to complete this one phase of training.

An army instructor’s course- in newest water drills was
given, requiring swimming complete with 0.1. clothing
and including life saving and water safety, abandoning
ship, avoiding strafing from air while in water, carrying
wounded, underwater swimming to avoid burning oil, boat

drills with rubber rafts, jumping from balcony with in-
flated Mae Wests.

Recreational Swimming

Swimming for recreation was part of the training pro-
gram. A competitive team from the air field was formed
and following a training period entered competition,
eventually winning first place in the 4th Air Command
swimming and diving championship meet.

“For fun” swimming included individual and relay
races, games, diving and water polo.

Some afternoons, patients from the convalescent wards
were brought to the pool for swimming and relaxation.

Usual Program Not Neglected

Sandwiched in between all this activity were high school
and grade classes, Red Cross campaigns, Boy Scouts, Camp
Fire and Rainbow girls, and the general public.

Needless to say, it was a most strenuous time and more
than taxed our facilities. At the same time I feel that the
city, through this department, contributed greatly to the
war effort.

 

Data on Swimming Pools

The Market . . .
There are about 11,000 swimming pools in the U. S. in
active use, ranging in size from 40,000 to 50,000 gal-

lons. They are divided 60% indoor, 40% outdoor.
Classification by Use and Ownership:

Private estate 2,500 small pools
Commercial; operated for profit 800 largest pools
YMCA, Schools, Hotels, etc. 2,500 small and
medium
Municipal, county and state 4,000 medium and
large
County and City club 1,200 medium

Classification by Size:
A. Up to 150,000 gallons capacity.............  3,200
B. 150,000 to 400,000 gallons capacity ............ .. 5,000
C. 400,000 and 5,000,000 gallons capacity.... 3,000

 

Approximately ............................................ ..11,200

*Beach and Pool Data Sheet 51.
MARCH 1952

The Demand for Swimming Pools:

The eleven thousand or more modern pools in operation
in America meet only a fraction of the aquatic needs in
this country. In this group is represented: municipal and
county pools; YM and YWCA; summer camps; hotel; pri-
vate estate; country club; tourist camp; dude ranch;
college; high and private school; amusement park; air-
port; hospital; community buildings; boys’ club; war

memorial; and other types.

Hundreds of new pool projects are being promoted and
being put on drawing boards now for construction as soon

as restrictions are lifted.

Villages of less than 1,000 population are planning to
build modern swimming pools, for the armed services
made about ten million new swimmers who now look upon

this exercise as their best recreation.

575

FORTY-FIVE YEARS of experience have
demonstrated to the National llec-
reation Association that in general the
leisure-time interests of peeple are best
served in localities where the recrea-
tion department is placed under the
administration of a board of public
spirited citizens. The type of board I
am speaking of is one that is ap-
pointed by the local governing authori-
ty (mayor or council) and submits its
budget request like other city depart-
ments. llowever, it has full responsi-
bility for the expenditure of the funds
when apprOpriated and for the ad-
ministration of the department, subject
to regulations affecting such functions
as purchasing, personnel, and fiscal
accounting and applying to all de-
partments. I am not speaking of
boards that are self-perpetuating or the
appointments to which are not con-
trolled by the city authorities, nor of
boards with so-ealled independent
jurisdiction and protected budgets. The
recreation board of which I speak and
which is most common is subject to
control from city hall, by reason of its
appointing and appropriating powers.

ln spite of the opposition to recrea-
tion boards by certain influential
groups, the number of cities that have
created recreation departments with
boards has increased rapidly in recent
years. Recreation boards outnumbered
departments without boards by more
than nine to one according to the Rec-
reation and Park Yearbook for 1950.
These figures do not include the de-
partments with advisory boards which
may be considered as a form of com-
promise and which were three times
as numerous as the departments with
no board. The figures afford striking
evidence as to the value which city
governing authorities attach to the
board as an agency for the administra-
tion of local recreation, for almost
without exception these boards are
created hy action of the mayor and
council and can likewise be abolished
by them at will.

Studies conducted by the association
some years ago afford statistical sup-
port to the observations that by and

*Prepared by Mr. Butler for use in a panel
dkeusdon at duiremnn annuallneedng of
the National Municipal League in Cincin-

natL

576

A Case for

the Recreation Board*

large, cities with recreation boards
have deveIOped more adequate pro-
grams, facilities, and services than cit-
ies without them and that in times
of retrenchment recreation has fared
better in cities with recreation boards.
One showed that during a ten-year
period, the greatest progress in local
recreation service, with respect to num-
ber of leaders, playgrounds, buildings,
and centers was made in cities where
recreation was administered by a
hoard. A second revealed that during
the early depression years local recrea-
tion service, as measured by five ma-
jor factors, was most fully maintained
in cities with boards.

Why should boards affect the quali-
ty of recreation service? And how
can recreation authorities justify their
contention that a board he established?
We all agree that citizen interest and
participation in government are de-
sirable but it is not enough to suggest
that membership on a recreation board
affords an excellent medium for eiti-
zen participation. We must demon-
strate the peculiar relationship of the
citizen to the recreation department
and the resulting need for a board.
One of the speakers at this conference
has asserted that recreation is no dif-
ferent than fire, sewer, water or any
other type of municipal service. 1 sub-
mit that in at least one esential re-
spect recreation, with the possible ex-
ception of the library, is unique among
the services of local government. Par-

Gcoi‘ge Butler

tieipation in its program and use of
its facilities are matters of free choice,
as far as the individual citizen is con-
eerned, and are absolutely dependent
upon his attitude toward them. He is
subject to the regulations of the police
or health department; he must accept
the service of the fire department in
an emergency, and he uses the sewer,
water and other services because he
has no alternative. Not so with recrea-
tion, for unless the offerings of the rec-
reation department appeal to him, he
simply ignores them. Unless he re-
speets the quality of the leaders on the
playground in his neighborhood he
does not permit his children to attend.
Unless he is convinced that he will
gain satisfaction and enjoyment from
joining with his neighbors in a hobby
group, a chorus, bowling league, dance
group or some other part of the recrea-
tion program, he fails to take ad-
vantage of the opportunities afforded
by the department. He seeks other ree-
reation offerings, be they good, bad or
indifferent. Yet there is abundant testi-
mony that it is tremendously important
to both the individual and the com-
munity that he should spend his lei-
sure time in a constructive manner.
The very nature of the recreation
program is another reason for boards.
It is not formalized or stereotyped—~—
it differs from city to city and in the
same city from year to year, from sea-
son to season and from neighborhood
to neighborhood. The recreation de-

RECREATION

partlnent must know thc city and its
people, be familiar with past cxperi-
ments in furnishing recreation services
in the locality, and develop a program
based upon a knowledge of local in-
tcrests, habits, desires, traditions, and
needs. It must then make its program
and services known to all the people.
Certainly it is part of the job of the
recrcation executive to accomplish
these things, but he cannot do so alone.
This is especially true in the smaller
cities.

It is well to keep in mind the fact
that, in a large percentage of cities,
the recreation executive is the only
full-timc departmcnt employee. 111 set-
ting up a new department it would
take him months to acquire by himself
the information he could secure from
a well chosen board, and its guidance
would help immeasurably in launching
a sound program related to the local
situation. In succeeding another cxecu-
tive, likewise, he needs the background
and advice of citizens familiar with
the community and its needs. The rec—
ord contains repeated examples of rec-
reation executives, who—working inde-
pendently—-—have ruined the program
and its chance of success by getting off
on the wrong foot. In this field, where
rclationships with community groups
are many and continuous, and where
the collective judgment of a carefully-
selected group is likely to be wiser
than the decision of a single executivc,
diverse public interests must often be
reconciled. It is unreasonable to be-
lieve that the mayor and council and
the city manager, preoccupied as they
are with problems relating to city
finance, public works and the opera-
tion of the big departments, can give
the time and attention needed for the

consideration and determination of

sound recreation policies and proce-
dures.

The recreation board, too, affords
the machinery for effecting coopera-
tion and coordination between the city
government and the local school an-
thorities, which are usually separate
political entities. Provision of a public
recreation program in most cities in-
volves the use of school properties. By
giving the school board representation
on the recreation board, unification of
serviccs is more readily achieved. In

MARCH 1952

vicw of the rapid expansion in the
planning and use of schools for com-
munity rccreation, the value of the rcc-
reation board as a medium for co-
operative action in planning facilities,
programs and Operating policies can-
not be overlooked.

The prcccding statements have made
it clear that the continuity in policy
making and administration afforded
by boards with overlapping terms for
their members is of the utmost im-
portance to the recreation department.
Boards also provide a check on thc
zeal of the recreation executive or a
stimulus to his complacency.

I suggest that attention be given the
words of a man who is widely known
and reSpected by all, Mr. Thomas H.
feed,“ and “tolerate a board or two.”
A recreation board may not conform
to your own basic pattern for local

 

 

government but it is likely to yield

benefits which will compensatc you

richly for creating it.

l'Mr. Reed is a recognized authority on gov-
ernment. and author of “Municipal Man-
agement," published by McCraw-Hill Iiook
Company, New York. I941. $4.00.

JUST OUI’

Proceedings
of the

33rd National Recreation Congress
Price $2.25

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
315 Fourth Avenue New York IO, N.Y.

m m as FIDHWHSEQ fdr ALI.
$231332: LEATHER&CR%

ms. "out;
eonsun

SHE IS:
- I“ IIIII

25¢ IUIIIIIIED
WWII Isl anon

 

Here’s Help You Need

for Successful Recreation

Become a monthly reader of PARK MAINTENANCE. Its articles will give

you expert aid for more efficient and economical Operation of your fa-

cilities. Each October you receive a complete Buyer’s Guide, listing more

than 500 sources of equipment and SUpplies.

$3.00 Per Year

PARK MAINTENANCE

P. 0. BOX 409

APPLE'I'ON, WISCONSIN

AWARDS YOU CAN AFFORD

OVER
DEPARTMENTS

IOO RECREATION
USING

OUR PLASTIC TROPHYS

WRITE TODAY FOR

I
|

 

, W. R. MOODY

FREE SAMPLE

704 N. MARIPOSA
BURBANK, CALIF.

 

578

RECREATION TRAINING LEADERSHIP PROGRAMS—1952

The difficulty of securing adequate and accurate information on training institutes was explained
in an earlier publication. The following information is published as reported to us. Individuals inter-
ested in these training Opportunities should secure more detailed information and verify the dates and
locations with the apprOpriate local officials. List will be continued in April or May RECREATION.

Date
March 12-19

April (end)
(tentative)

March 20-22
April 24-30

April 28-
May 2

April 30-
May 7

May—first or
second weekend

May 5-10
May (early)
May

May 7-10
May 12-17
May 17
May 14-21
May 18-24
May 23-25

May 23-29

May 28-
June 5

June 2-7

May 28-
June18

June 9-
July 4

June 4-19

June 3-21
(tentative)

J unc 15-21

June 18-
August 9

June 22-
] uly 3

June 25
( tentative)

June 27-
August 27

June (late)

June, July
August (third

week each)

June 30—
July 12

Location For Further Information

Southeastern Methodist Recreation Worksh0p, Miss Willie Frances Coleman,
Leesburg, Florida Box 182, Tupelo, Mississippi

Kentucky Recreation Workshop, Mrs. A. W. Keene, Chairman,
(exact place not yet set) 1001 Ashland Avenue, Louisville, Kentucky

Mid-Continent Training Institute, University of Felix K. Dhainin, 325 City Hall, Minneapolis
Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota

South Central Methodist Recreation Worksh0p, Reverend William Cole,
Turner Falls, Oklahoma 1300 Austin Avenue, Waco, Texas

Kansas State Recreation Workshop, Miss Irene Rogers, County Extension Office,
Hutchinson, Kansas Junction City, Kansas

Southwestern Recreation Leaders Laboratory, Miss Travis Huglls, State College, New Mexico;
El Mirador Ranch, Alcalde, New Mexico Billye Sue Abererombie, 1406 West Tilden,
Roswell, New Mexico

H. Rohert Giles. Cooke Hall, University of
Minnesota, Minneapolis 14 _

Hugh Wctzel, Secretary, 414 Mumford Hall,
Urbana, Illinois

Don Clayton, State College,
Brookings, South Dakota

Kirhy Stoll, Recreation Department,
Louisville, Kentucky

Sara Ccrtrudc Knott.
5833 Enright, St. Louis

F. L. McReynolds, Associate in Rural Youth,
Lafayette, Indiana

Jolln Trostle, 340 Cherry Street,
New York City

Mrs. Louise K. Richardson,

Corvallis, Montana

Bruce W. Cartter. 314 Agriculture Hall,
College of Agriculture, Madison 6

Mrs. Elizabeth S. Faris,
Oglehay Institute, Wheeling

Rohert L. Black, Division Resources and
Deve10pment, State Office Building,
Jefferson City, Missouri

Folk Dance Camp, Oglehay Park, Oglebay Institute, Wheeling, West Virginia
Wheeling, West Virginia Mrs. Elizaheth S. Faris

Recreation Workshop (Preshyterian c00perat- Bill Beatty, Post Office Box 44,
ing), Bynden Wood, Pennsylvania New Kensington, Pennsylvania

Michael Herman Folk Dance Camp, Alice Dudley, Bryant Pond, Maine
Bridgeton, Maine

Scarritt College Workshop for
Camp Leaders, Nashville

Camping Administration,
Indiana University

Fernglen Nature WorkshOp,
Antrini, New Hampshire

New England Recreation Laboratory

Newport, Rhode Island

Folk Dance Leadership in the School
and Community, University of Kentucky

Minnesota Recreation Institute

Illinois Leisurecraft and Counseling Camp,
Monticello

Northwest Recreation Laboratory,
St. Joe, Idaho

Kentucky Recreation Workshop
National Folk Festival, St. Louis, Missouri

Hoosier Recreation Workshop,
Merom, lndiana

Cooperative Recreation Workshop,
University Settlement, New York

Chatcolab, Northwestern Recreation Leaders
Laboratory, Plummer, Idaho

Wisconsin Recreation Leaders Laboratories,
Wausau, Wisconsin

Choral Camp, Oglebay Park, Wheeling,
West Virginia

Missouri Recreation Workshop,
Lake of the Ozarks State Park, C-2 Camp

Miss Mattie Sue Howell,
Scarritt College, Nashville, Tennessee

Reynold E. Carlson, Department of Recreation,
Indiana University, Bloomington, Indiana

Willard F. Turner, Fernglen,
Antriln, New Hampshire

Kenneth L. Cober, 144 Westminster
Street, Providence 3

Miss Lovaine Lewis, Women’s Physical Education
Department, University of Kentucky,
Lexington, Kentucky

Alfred S. Reindl. 5070 North Second Street,
Milwaukee 9, Wisconsin

Miss Vivian Wills, Westchester Reereation Com-
mission. Room 242, County Office Building,

White Plains

Marietta Stevenson, Director School
of Social Work, University of lllinois, Urbana

John C. Campbell Folk School,

Brasstown, North Carolina
Dr. Lloyd Shaw,
Colorado Springs, Colorado

National School for Group Organization and
Recreation, Plymouth, Wisconsin

Playground Leader Training Institute,

White Plains, New York

Summer Training Program. Use of Social
Work in Camp Setting, Algonquin, Illinois

John C. Camphell Folk School

“Short Course,” Brasstown
Lloyd Shaw’s Square Dance Courses,
Colorado Springs, Colorado

Paul J. Kermiet, Lighted Lantern Lodge,

Rocky Mountain Folk Dance Camp
Route 3, Golden, Colorado

(Continued on next page)

RECREATION

Date
July 20-26

July 21-23,
July 29-August 2

July 24-
August 26

July 26-August 2

Dancbod Rccreation Institute,
Tyler, Minncsota

Folk Dance Camp,
Stockton, California

Recreation Leadership WorkshOp,
Boulder, Colorado

Green Lake Recreation Leaders Laboratory,
Wisconsin

Location

For F urther Information

Rcverend Enok Mortensen,
Tyler, Minnesota

Lawton D. Harris, College of the Pacific,
Stockton, California

Clifford Houston, Director Summer Session,
University of Colorado, Boulder, Colorado

Howard Irish, 4677 Oregon Avenue, Detroit 4,

Michigan; or Ebcr W. Bowles, Box 1056,
Huntington 13, West Virginia

For the list of training courses conducted by NRA staff, see inside back cover.

 

7m, B0WLING smmm

7HERE’S no question about it—
bowling has taken the country by
It’s the Number One Indoor
Sport on Sunset Boulevard and Park
Avenue, in Centreville, and in points
in-between. Church and school groups,

storm!

scout troops, office workers, old and
young folks alike, are sending their
bowling balls down the thousands of
shining alleys throughout the land. On
the distaff side, many a bridge table
has been forsaken for the maple way.
Bowling is the ideal playroute to a slim
figure, according to authorities. That
fact may lure the over-corpulent into
the alleys, but their red-hot enthusiasm
in itself holds them after the first game.

Here’s a suggestion for you, the next
time you want to entertain your bowl-
ing team. Plan the party for a day
when the players have the afternoon
off, if possible. Serve a eold-eut, rye
bread and hot coffee meal, early. Play
the quiz game suggested below, and
then go on to the alleys for your bowl-
ing jamboree. Or plan the affair for a
night when you aren’t going to bowl
at all. Have a leisurely meal and a
game, and revel—*as all bowlers do—
in talking about your favorite indoor
sport. Sometimes it’s fun to have a
get-together after a bowling match,
too. So adapt the suggestions offered
here to your particular group and com-
munity.

If you serve the simple meal buffet

MARCH 1952

style, center the table with a bowling
pin setup . . . . If you seat the guests at
the table, use some of the clever bowl-
ing place cards that are obtainable,
with places for league, team, and in-
dividual names. If your bowling party,
like many others, is planned as a go-
ing-away affair for some member, the
guest of honor can be presented with
any number of suitable gifts. For men,
there are tie-chains and clips, poeket-
knives, key-chains, or cigarette lighters
—all bearing bowling insignia designs.
For women: compacts, braeelet charms,
or pins, suitably embossed with bowl-
ing figures. . . . TrOphies and plaques,
though attractive, aren’t very practical
because they may be used only as
mementos and decorations.

Balloons that blow up to the size of
bowling balls, and are decorated with
an action-bowling seene, come in as-
sorted eolors. They can be selected to
harmonize with any color scheme, and
when tied to ehairbaeks, or to the een-
terpiece, create a gay and festive at-
mosphere.

Here is a good guessing game to
play after eating. Supply the players
with papers upon which they are to
give one-word answers. The bowlers
should know them quickly, since all
the terms are familiar ones. Set a
reasonably short time limit, and give a
prize to the player who gets the most
correct answers in the shortest time.

Question Ans.
1.Used for fastening .................... ..pin
2. Important on a motor trip ..spare
3. Place Upon which no one likes to

be put ..................................... .. spot
4. Favorite pic of many people .......... ..

.............................................. ..eherry
5. Offensive to the senses .......... .. foul
6. Found on women’s clothing .. book
7. Kind of house ...................... ..frame
8. Duplicate of anything ........ .. double
9. City of churches in New York

State .............................. .. Brooklyn
10. Forest .................................... ..wood

 

If there should be any servicemen in
your neighborhood, draw them into lo-
cal bowling parties and tournaments.

11. Kind of pea soup .................... ..split
12. Concentrated agitation for more

pay .......................................... ..strike
13. Kind of dance ........................... .. tap
14. Choice marble ........................ ..alley
15. Prizefighter’s best weapon....blow
16. German eoin .......................... ..mark
17. POpular at Thanksgiving  turkey
18. Found in some fruits .............. .. pit
19. Measure of distance ........... ..league

20. Important part of clothing ............ ..
.............................................. ..poeket

Reprinted by permission of Prentice-
Hall, Ineorporated and the author from
“Parties on a Budget,” by Louise Price

Bell. Price, $2.95.
579'

 

Plastics and related materials seem
to have an inexhaustible number of
variations for lianderaft uses. Here
are two we’ve heard about recently.

Celastic

Celastie is a tough cotton fabric im-
pregnated with a colloidal plastic.
When dipped into Celastic Softener,
it becomes easily worked and can be
draped, moulded or shaped by hand.
It dries hard as stone, and can be
drilled, cut, sanded or painted. Be-
cause of its pliability before hardening,
Celastic can be used for a great variety
of purposes. It is weatherproof and
can be used for both indoor and out-
door displays in place of the old papier
maehe. It won’t break, and models
can be shipped without elaborate pack-
ing. It lends itself to so many uses, in
the theatre, for the costumer, for hand-
crafts, for commercial and hobby
needs, that it takes a catalog to de-
scribe them all. For full information
write to Ben Walters Incorporated, 125

West 26th Street, New York 1.

Plastic Relieve Colors

This is a .selfsetting plastic paint
for decorating with needle cone or
brush on fabrics, pottery, toleware,
wood, paper, glass, metal, canvas and
similar surfaces. Manufactured by
CVH Laboratories Company, Irving-
ton 11, New Jersey, this plastic paint
can be used by novice or expert. For
a small charge the company will send
you their instruction booklet on “How
to Paint,” or their pattern catalog
containing hundreds of designs.

“Trav-L-Pal”

Compact and lightweight, “Trav-L-
l’al," a set of folding table and bcnches
with indoor and outdoor
uses, now is being marketed through
furniture, hardware and department

llUlllCI‘OUS

580

stores. The table, seating four, holds
a removable tray with place settings
for four. The two benches, folded to-

—.__—._.—

 

gether into a carrying unit, weigh
sixteen pounds; the table weighs nine-
teen pounds. Deluxe models of tables
and benches are covered with Masonite
Leatherwood, painted either red Mo-
roeco or aqua Morocco. Standard units
are covered with Masonite tempered
hardboard. For detailed information
write to The Tawas Furniture Com-
pany, Tawas City, Michigan.

Baseball

The 1951 Edition of BASEBALL
COACHING AIDS, both the Coach’s
Kit and Notebook for $3.75, gives it]-
side dope on each team position. It
helps the coach as well as the players,
and saves time for both. College book-
stores are allowed a reduced price for
orders of ten or more sets. Send for
circular or order directly from H. S.
De Croat, Department C, Newtown,
Connecticut. (Add fifteen cents postage
to each order.)

Screen for Daytime Projection

A new classroom projection screen
which permits movie and slide pro-
jection in lighted rooms has been de-
veloped by the Radiant Manufacturing
Corporation, 2627 West Roosevelt
lioad. Chicago 8, Illinois; With this
screen, blinds and windows may be
left open and normal ventilation re-
tained at all times. The “classroom”

 

screen is equipped with doors which
protect the surface and permit easy,
safe storing. Total weight is less than
twenty-two pounds. Viewing surface
is forty inches by forty inches. A seven
pound steel stand is made to fit the
screen. The Radiant “classroom”
sereen sells for $39.75. The “class-
room” screen stand is $12.50. (Prices
slightly higher on the west coast.)

Portable Generators

Floodlighting of playing fields or in
camp situations may be a problem you
are facing. Winchargcr Corporation,
Sioux City, Iowa, announces the de-
veIOpment of new portable gas-e11-
gine driven electric generators, Model
1800, in three general ratings—~1000.
1250 and 1350 watts at 115-volts, 60-
cycles, A. C. The unit is equipped with
a universal mounting base which per-
mits mounting any one of scveral
popular makes of engines. Free litera-
ture is available from the manufacturer
on request.

Photography Aid

The Tifien Manufacturing Corpora-
tion, 71 Bcekman Street, New York 38,
New York is offering a new SELECT-
A-FILTER SAFE, constructed of dura-

for 

' ‘ fi't
‘ 3"“- .I

ble transparent plastic with a newa
perfected snap closure and a molded
strap loop so that it may be easily at-
tached to camera ease or bag. In two
sizes, the SELECT-A-FILTEH SAFE
holds six filters, lens shade and adap-
ter ring. Each filter is held firmly in
place by tension springs, and separated
from the next filter by molded grooves.
The push button dcviee automatically
resets itself, operating on a direct
thrust at the touch of a finger, raising
lIlC filter above the others for easy re-
moval. Prices are 32.50 and $2.75.
available at your photo store.

RECREATION

S

‘
‘4

I’AIITII

IIS

‘
L

DIITSIC'AL )II. 'I

r|l|llllllllll|l|l

Om: :5_.mOE: 5:5 3:5 :O :5? 7:5. :uOH 5mm??? :5! 9:: :55::
:O :E: :5 23:94 m:5:5 Om :5 $533 _:O<m:5::m :O m:: no :5
7:33.. m:: mil" Om :5 mm:5.

U955 Univ:

$55.. aw:O:‘O:5 :wE: mOH HEP:
EOEEROF. 699:5 35:5 Om 85:5? «52:55 ::O::::m ::m::5 :5::m.
mmO::m 8539533235.
:OHmoau Fan? mOaEma: 3m?" m5?u go no m 555:5u migmgm
:95: :5::m m:: m::M::m. denim” Univ: . . . 35553 :O.::
NUS: :5::mu Ea: mrocr :O:: :5::m mmmgu m:: 223m
m:O:m :: :5 o:5H.. ::50:O= mOH Em: mnawm. mag: :5:m-OHmN:\ . . .3:
99:: OE: :5::mu m:m:o 525%,: am? :5:: 5:: 1m?“
o2: :5::.m Mama:u m:m:o m5251m :5mn :5:: «1:: :5m: :5::. A: . . .
£15: amalmmmmd
:2 :uO:: :35 o: Ormmr m2::m :55 mg"; maom: mam HO m::5
mm :m Hoor::m m Oam::5. m: . . . 8:; mmmOH:.::
m. m5: 5:: gram 332:3»: 1m? :5:: :: Em 1m?“ m:: _H:5::N
2:? .395: 55:: o:5H. mama «ocu: :oor $55? 55: :5 53 . . .3:
9mg: :5: :55m no :5 :82“ m5: m:5m: Om 7:: :: :5
35:9 10: m 385:5 :53: mOH 33.3: macaw" m: 5:: :57 :u:m.<
mm :O:m mm :mm:5:.

>OOO~:::m 8 :5 Zoo:::M::

Anamozu 3:35am m::: 55:: o:5~ 7% :HmHO:._::m mama 3 8:655 mo:m
::5m 35:: ::oo:::m:.:u Boo: OH mnmam. O:~:m 55:5 mnmamIOH 5:32
.:oo:ml.loo_:m::::m :5 mam" :OOZ:O: Om 2::oo: mo:m: ::mm m:: :5:
:55 :5 :mm: :51 Om :5 ::mm. mo:5 :Omm::o::::mm :5”

Q35 0: ............................................. .. 1:28" Zoo:
:: :5 0:35: .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. :: :5 ZOO:::m:.:
Zoo: 05:. ............................................. .. .. . Z55:
>OOO~:::m .. ................................. .. :O :5 ZOO:::m::
:w::O ............ .. . ...................................... .. Zoo:
Emma Om ":5 ms: ..................... .. m:: 35m" Om :5 Zoo:
:m :5 Zoo: ................................... .... .... .. 4:35: 055:
: 35:5: ..............................................  o: :5 Zoo:
Zoo: ................................................................... .. 0:92
wing Zoo: ..................................................... .. . mo:m
Zoo:::mrn .......... . .. ...................................... .. m:: :83
055% . . ........ .. :: :5 Zoo:::m:.:
mnmam W5: 0: >:m:5:5

:m :‘o: 43:: ................ .. 55: 5 mm:

=55:me men. HS:

0 

H SEE HO :5 m, 1.5:?
$55.. 24:5 0:: 05% Z39:

woizmaozu 525:5 :5 mOEW:::O:u mmO::m
mnog om :52. 2:? :m::\ o: Mm::5:5:um 1%.?
3355 m::m :5 mO::O€::m EOH:m m:: :o :5
3:53:55 5:9: mm :5:N Em? m~o=:: :5 :5::.

 

.2: :o:u_n 2:3 no 5:5: 3:: :5 55339 1:5 is“: :5 8:33:
Zoo: 3:: :5 35:53:.

U

2: :o:: 3:: no 3: 3:2 :5 553:} mOH : :55 Ho :5 V5529.
:mJoH : 43:: no :5 mwm5::::c mOH. : #5:" no :5 \wmm::::>:
:mwmwmmn maom: :5 :5M:::::m m:: 5:: s::._ :5 58:: $55.:

:25? A175 53: :5 :o5 :: mag: 5:5: mo5:m:o: Om mm m 5:325
mow m 5:5: maocmo. 435: :5: mm m 5::me 7:5 :5 Mnocc was:
m:: :o :5 mO::o€::m 5:95 :: 3.55”

H. ZmuorlimF :: 155.

w. W::mll:_:::m5 H::::m m roam.

w. Ewls‘mawm maBm o5 :: maoa Om no :5 m::5m.

Km. erOnlrinmnm m:._OO::m m m:: 3: :m::m :5::m m:: 3:5.
m. :un5:::::|m:._m:5 :5::m «in: :Emrroa.

wo=vr<<o=$Uoon=5
$55.. :wO::%-€O:::7Uoo::5.:

EOwSoaoE U935 35:5. :55 o: :5 ::m::5u mmO::m $5255“ :Oo:._
:5::m :.O:5: m::O:::5H :5:mrr :25 3:5: £5235.

:O:.o:.. TM :0? : 35:" :O2: mos? no man :d:N mmr:

:uoE m:::5u O:Omm m5?u 255:5. Q
wk: :m::m :OO:::?A<O:::\.Uoo::5 m: :5 :33:

1:5 ::m:.: £335. 33::m o:OO :~.o:::u
Emigm 3:: :5::m o: 5:5“ o::m::5 moo”.

M: :Z:‘ mmzw E: m 55:5: mmr:
Woca m:::5u O:Om5 m5? :53» Ho 155.
«a: am::m :uO:::Ta<O:::ono::m m: :5 :m::3

I’AIITIFS

"S

‘I
{
J

)ll'Sl!“.—\L .‘ll. 1

m8me 8:8 .mzmmmosm :4 548:3: mm: :4: m: 0:? 888 8:: Z
.8dom. 8:88: mammcmm 8:: ...: :84 808 80m 8: m< .8408—
8m mama??? :88 mammcmm 8:: .880 m3: 5 30:04:? 8:3 88.30 0::
8:08.808 0: mm 0:2: .mm: 0: mm: 8: 80.30 8:“ 3 8840 8:80
.883 8:: 8 88: m: mam—0 4:8 m_8m m 88: .8 mmcmm mucum 0:?
:4 mmmzm 0: mm: 8: .mm :23 m4: 8:3 33 8: Me: 8:: mm 82
8:.4. 8:08:00 30:84? m =0; 0: 84: .84 m4 :8: 8:: “88:08.”: .2880 mm:
:00: 0:0 0: 8.87: 8:: 8.: 33:8 .8 :8: 088m 880m :00: 0308
m8:8 8:: 82:2? 800.” 8:: 888: 8814 80 «Scam m1: :4 80.8%.

0:82 3mg:

:08: 8:: 8 008:0 m 48: 08: :8 :80 0:980

:08: >8: :8: 8813: .80.: 8:: 0: :08 8:: :m000:u 243m 2980
4:8: :08 .:m_: 38: .88: meme—8.4 x: :08 8 E84 :46

.8083 FEmEo 0: :8: 8500 408 804 8:: 0:

243m :48— 85 0: :8: 308% 8.8: 88000 4884.4 .H:mE mag: :0 Em
80:10.24 mzzmvm :4 :08: 08.4 408 8:8m0: 88 $85me .m
4:08: :8: :8: F2: 08 882 .6
88: an: 0:: :33 EB :08 882 .m

858 8:: 0:0 :0: :08: :08 Em 80 n: 80:80 :08 883 E :8:
.8800 8:: E n04:8: Emmy 30.4 mo: 80: :08 Em 408mm

._:m 804 408 x0: :08: a: 4888
.80 m: mEH 82:: 0: 383:8: 8% :08 >8: .8800 0:: 0: 3488me
23m 3980 804 8:: 40 040: :08 814000 :08: 85 40 ED .4 28.8%

. . . 8.80 #2040 4 4:8 :98 :0 0:526
. . . 0.80 “0:040 4 4:8 940: :4 20mm
. . . 0.30 3:040 4 mam. m: 30:“: 50mm .40.
. . . as 2% _ Ea a: 0:2 83....
. . . 8.80 :8: 4 40:... a: :28: Emma .N

.808 08m mammmmz 8.:
b880 #0040 4 408 :80 :88 0:084.

 

“080 :81 4 408 :80 :88 888—.
:80 :81 4 4:8 :80 :88 0:08.. .4 8408.“:

3.280 0—800 2:84.: 853m

:80 :080 0:084.

.88.: £0— 48E0.4 .A: 8808 4850.4
n04:8: Em: :6: 40:88 mammary—m 04980 0:: .3 8:5 3—88 m: :0:
:8; matmxm 0:.4. .980m 0:: :m80:u :8 0m :08 8:88 38:04 .3

(Fold Along This Line)

88:88:: 8580 a 80:8: :40: 8.85 .0840 8: 8 :8: 20:0 8::
40:00.8 380:8 243m 408 858: £80088 “(:88 0:? “8:80 8:: E
881: 8:: a: 40288 88> m 0“ 8:33: 5 @840 4:8 mEm :< 80.30::

.8880 8:: :4 :0m8m 8:0 £43 £85qu .8 840040 Ema—4m < “zomuczt0k

. . . 040 4:3 Ta: 83: 8 4003-48.” a 8m «.80 d
. . . =0.» 8.8 0m 4:8 898 mm Hmmzm .
. . . 00: 8:53 4:348.” 8 mm. 38m .
. . . 80:m 8:4: 8:80: a $8.: Em :4 .
. . . 005 :4 8.8: 8m 8: 4:0 MEG .
. . . =0» 8.8 0m 4028 80m 88 84:05 .
. . . 005 x: 00: “0:88:48: 0:: :4 8:887: .m
. . . 2:: :88me :Homwg :8.” 82:4 .N
mam—8:0 5.: :84 b: 0: aim
:84 b: 8 dim dim "Ev—m
:84 m8 0H .06.? .048 .306
:84 b: 0: .08? .08.? .mmva
ma:ch b: :84 0?: 0: amt—m
.00:m S: .00:m .::E8::: 8:: E 8;”:
n00:w Q: .00:m .::8.8::: 9: :m 82.:
.00:m chm. 60:8 £58830: 8:: 5 8:4,”: .4 84:05

:53 :2 2 3m: is:
8: kn2 3 0%

'd‘lDKDF-OO

.84 08:: :0 mm? 0:? .088: >8: 8:: 0: 55 40.8 64-2 8882:
:0 8:8: :88: :0 8:8 :08 mmmm n0.858;: 8.84.4 80.08.08;

48:8: 8 8:0 mm. 808:0 mt:

888m 4.32m mammary—m 8 mac—:83 a: 858 88 88:9:

.mmBm Emma 5:3 80:25 858m 53 4:8 88: #:mmu E04.
25% 2: =.w 2880-33.83.00 8%: 2-2

.8580 0: :8:

32m .804 0:5 :8 8:: 8:8 :0830: mamas: .808 08.”:
.anccmzmsm >8 8w 0: .84 6:88:84 0: mcmom EL 8h... 404-2

8.0.?»80—088000 3:83 85:24 03300

82:3 8—0040 8:: :0588 8:30:00? mag—8.: 8: 2:0:m 858;

3:2: 2: 080830:. :5 mESQ .858; :84 5030 388

.804 8:3 .Emt 8:: 2 mcm0£ 4:8 80: 2mm.” :8: m~:_=:m0m
R084 884 b: .48.: 8:: 88h: NT:

.mam: :0 £08: 08580 0: T08: 08: 0:0 0:82
2:40.: 00:: 88h £03 00:: 88m: 94-0

.mmm: :0 £88: n804

3:300 :33 mztbzm 40:00.8 80:0 mist: h385m Em: 83m

 

7W0f7iate

National Music Week

The Letter 0] Suggestions which the
National Music Week Committee sends
each year to the local chairmen and
workers is just oil the press and is
available. You may obtain your copy
by writing to National and Inter-Amer-
ican Music Week Committee, 315
Fourth Avenue, New York 10. En-
close a three-cent stamp to cover post-
age. Extra copies for redistribution
will be supplied without charge.

National Music Week this year falls
on May 44-11, beginning as is the cus-
tom on the first Sunday in May. Key-

note is MAKE YOUR LIFE MORE
MUSICAL.

Hospital Reereation

A course for leaders in hospital
recreation is being given the second
term of this year at New York Uni-
versity. This course is designed to be
equally valuable for volunteer and
professional recreation leaders in hos-
pitals. The work is divided into two
parts -— “Methods and Materials in
Hospital Recreation” and “Observa-
tion and Participation in Hospital
Recreation.”

Reereation Degree

The University of Western Ontario
is oflering the first and only Honors
B.A. course in recreation in Canada.

“ . . . In Ontario a student eom-
pletes one post graduate year in high
school prior to university entrance.
This is known as grade thirteen and
is about the same as first year uni-
versity work in the States. A student
may then take a three year liberal
arts course in a particular field. It is
assumed that students electing honors
options have the capacity for superior
work. It gives us the greatest satisfac-
tion, therefore, that this university has
seen fit to grant honors status to Ree-
reation as well as to Physical and
Health Education. This means that, in
the five year program above grade
twelve, we are able to ensure that the
individual receives a broad liberal
arts and science background prior to
intense specialization in professional
recreation eourses.”*

*Excerpt from letter by EMILE F. ZsleLnn,
Professor and Head of department.

MARCH 1952

Need for Personnel

“Recreation, A New Profession in a
Changing World,” the special defense
publication of the National Recreation
Association, points out the need for
a continuous, systematic recruiting pro-
gram to provide experienced, trained
recreation workers for the many pub-

SQUARE DANCIN as

lie and private agencies servicing the
armed forces and the national defense
efiort. The objectives of recreation
leadership are outlined. Agencies cm-
ploying personnel and types of posi-
tions open are described. Standards of
preparation and suggestions for stu-
dents are included.

CAN

Saeaeetam...$aea¢¢dateacé

 

With these Square Dance Records with Progressive
Oral Instructions and Calls by ED DURLACHER.

Here is the easy and economical way to meet the

ever-growing demand for square dancing in your
community

series of square dance records.

. . . the HONOR YOUR PARTNER

it it it

Each record in albums 1 to 4 starts with simpli-
fied progressive oral instructions by Ed Durlacher
—instructions easily understood by dancers of all
7 ages. Followin '
time to square their sets, the music and calls

a brief pause, givmg the dancers
egin. The TOP HANDS, directed

by FRANK NOVAK, offer the best in scintillating and foot tapping square dance
music. The calls are delivered by one of the nation’s most outstanding square

dance authorities, ED DURLACHER.

The fifth album in the series contains music only, without calls or instructions-

“The Square Dance Caller’s Delight".
it

it

it

AN ENTHUSIASTIC USER REPORTS . . .

“The square dance album ‘Honor Your Partner’ is all that you claimed it to be—we
tried out the records on a group of eighth grade students and they picked u the
instructions without difficulty. In the space of thirty minutes, this group, whit: had
never square (lancer! before, were doing the figures in an expert fashion. The records
were also a hit at the adult square dance which we held last‘night.”

All records guaranteed
against breakage,
in normal use.

HONOR YOUR PARTNER

Alfred Elliott
Recreation Director
Greenwood, Mississippi

Learn more about the
HONOR YOUR PARTNER albums.
Write for a descriptive folder.

SQUARE DANCE ASSOCIATES

DEPT. R-6

FREEPORT, NEW YORK

UNSURPA SSED in SAFETY

and DURA BHJTY

In a feature by feature comparisan, BURKE-Built
Equipment definiter offers outstanding value.
Appraval by park and playground afiicials from
caast ta caast is an authoritative suppart for its
superiority. Speciol fittings and scientific design
afier functianal advantages that really contribute
to safety, durability and ecanamy in the highest
degree.

Equipment by BURKE is built on canstant research
and is unconditionally guaranteed against de-

fects in warkmanship and materials. Chaase
BURKE—the choice af men wha know autstanding
value.

THE 1. E. BURKE co... Fond du Lac, Wis.

 

WRITE TODAY

Free Planning Assistance

by Burke engineers.
Camplete catalog and price list.
Address Dept. A

Tennis Permits

From Leonard .l. Mclislt. Superin-
tendent, Board of Recreation. Town
Hall, Fairiicld. Connecticut comes the
explanation of how I’airiield solvcd
their problem Of issuing tennis per-
mits without causing players to travel
all the way across town to the recrea-
tion Office. PrOprietors Of barber
shops, candy stores, sporting goods
stores, were “deputizcd” to issue pcr-
mits for nearby courts. It simplified
the problem for everyone and even
helped business for the merchants.

Ceiling Projector

The Montclair, New Jersey library
—tbrougl-: the gift Of a ceiling pro-
jector from the Lions Club—has found
one answer tO reading for the bedrid-
den. The projector throws films Of
books, a page at a time, on the ceiling
above a patient’s head. About sixty
adult and juvenile films are available
to anyone unable to use an ordinary

book.

Beferee’s Kit
TO forestall the minor crises which
arise during tournaments, Joseph E.

p

——_——————————_'l

iWhot does
I "SCHOOL CAMPING”

Here is a full, up-tO-date explanation Of
the philosophy behind the rapidly grow-
ing movement for school-sponsored, year-
round, cO-educational camps, at both ele-
mentary and high school levels.

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I
SCHOOL CAMPING l
by George W. Donaldson |
Director, Outdoor Education I
Tyler (Texas) Public Schools |
I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

. . . gives you a detailed outline Of the
concept Of camping as outdoor education,
as well as healthful recreation. It shows
how meaningful work, social living, na-
ture and conservation study, etc., help
children approach maturity. Photo illus-
trations show school camping activities
in varied climates. Introduction by Dean
Ernest Melby, School Of Education, New
York University. $2.25

I ASSOCIATION PRESS I
I 291 Broadway, New York 7, N.Y.

 

I Send me copies of SCHOOL CAMP-l
I ING by Geo. W. Donaldson @ $2.25 eoch.l
I Name . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. I

I

I City. Zone, State. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

I

I

CI Payment herewith (postpoid) I

I E] Bill me (postage exlro) J

L_—_—__—-_—_-—

584

 

Curtis of Brooklyn suggests the follow-
ing kit as standard umpires’ equip-
ment: (1) U. S. Army .50 caliber
machine gun ammunition case, twelve
by six by four inches, to hold contents
Of the kit; (2) two regulation baseballs
or softballs, to be used if needed; (3)
four sharpened pencils, small pencil

sharpener; (4») Official baseball and
softball rulebooks; (5) iodine; (6)

package Of bandaids; (7) Official

score sheets; (8) stamped envelopes,
agency, for
mailing in score sheets after game;
(9) OHicial umpire’s hand indicator,
for balls, strikes and outs. Cost, ex-
cluding indicator and balls, 85c.

addressed to recreation

Center News

TO increase the use Of facilities, the
Brookline, Massachusetts Municipal
Recreation Commission publishes a
sheet listing community centers and
activities. Permanent information oc-
cupies the outside columns, while the
center column lists events Of the cur-
rent month—races, cook-outs, tourna-

ments, and so forth.

Pamphlets

As you may want to follow up the
material in this issue on recreation
for our Older adults, we are relisting
some publications we have mentioned
before. Any Of these may be obtained
from the Committee on Recreation for
Older People, Education-Recreation
Division Health and Welfare Council,
Incorporated, 1625 Spruce Street,
Philadelphia 3, Pennsylvania.

SALIENT POINTS ON ORGANIZATION OF

3 .15
A PROGRESS REPORT OF PHILADEL-

CLUBS FOR O‘LDER PEOPLE 

PHIA’s RECREATION PROGRAM FOR
OLDER PEOPLE .................. .. . $ .20
MERRILY WE PLAY .................... .35 .30
AN IDEAL JOB FOR THE VOLUN-
TEER ....................................... .. $ .20
A PLACE IN THE SUN ................. .. 3 .80

Pattern for Kite Contest

1. Each contestant will be allowed one

helper if he or she desires.

2. All kites must be homemade.

3. Each contestant may enter three

events out Of the first six, plus the

seventh which is a kite battle.

4. A contestant will be allowed five

minutes tO get his or her kite aloft.

5. A kite must fly at least one minute.
Contestants may paint a red cross

on their kites as a reminder Of the

American Red Cross services.

( As used at Independence Park can-

test.)

Easter Seals

This is a reminder that the annual
Easter Seal campaign, sponsored by
lhc National Socicty for Crippled Chil-
dren and Adults, begins March 13,
1952 and ends Easter Sunday, April
13. More than three hundred thousand
crippled children and adults rcceivcd
bclp in 1951 in the form Of treatment
and training, convalescent care, spccial
cducation, recreation, employment Op-
portunities and counseling. Through
buying Easter Seals you can help di-
rcctly to continue this work, assisting
youngsters tO build happy, useful lives.

RECREATION

Magazines

BEACH AND POOL, December 1951.
Making the Pool a Year ’Round At-
traction, L. P. “Pat” Murphy.
Tile, An Outstanding Pool “Per-
former,” Kenneth M. Gale.
Coping with Public Health Prob-
lems, E. Harold Hinman.

When Accidents Occur, J. H. Mue-

ler.

CAMPING MAGAZINE, November 1951
Old Age: A New Frontier for Camp-
ing, Jerry Kaplan.

CAMPING MAGAZINE, December 1951
Economize !-——-But How, With Steadi-
ly Rising Costs ?, John R. McKin-
lcy.
Year-Round Camping, William L.
Petty.

NATIONAL PARENT-TEACHER, Novem-
bcr 1951
Play Is Not Passive, James L.
Hanes, Jr.

PARKS AND RECREATION, November

1951 I

New Page Park Pool in Bristol, Con-
necticut, E. Gordon Stocks.

Park Turf, EfIiciency in Turf Main-
tenance, Tom Mascaro.

American Playground Device Com-
pany Buys a Town.

Pan-American Games, Vincent DeP.

Farrell.

 

Pamphlets

 

DON’T UNDERESTIMATE WOMAN Pow-
ER, Elizabeth Bass Golding and Dal-
las Johnson. Public Affairs Com-
mittee, Incorporated, 22 East Thirty-
eighth Street, New York 16. $.25.

EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES, RECOM-
MENDED. Association for Childhood
Education International, 1200 Fif-
teenth Street, NW, Washington 5,
D. C. $1.00.

EX AMERICA, Garet Garrett. The Cax-
ton Printers, Limited, Caldwell, Ida-
l10. $.75.

FACTS ABOUT NARCOTICS, Victor H.
Vogel and Virginia E. Vogel. Sci-

MARCH 1952

ence Research Associates, 57 West
Grandc Avenue, Chicago 10. 3.40.

FIRST ANNUAL REPORT. The National
Association for Mental Health, In-

corporated, 1790 Broadway, New
York 19.

GLOVEMAKING FOR BEGINNERS, Natalie
S. Woolf. McKnight and McKnight
Publishing Company, Market and
Center Streets, Bloomington, Illinois.

$1.50.

GUIDING CHILDREN’S SOCIAL GROWTH,
Ellis Weitzman. Science Research
Associates, 57 West Grande Avenue,
Chicago 10, $.40.

HOCKEY COACHING. Physical Fitness
Division, Department of National
Health and Welfare, 700 Jackson
Building, Ottawa, Canada.

How To PLAN SUCCESSFUL BIKE SAFE-
TY PROGRAMS. Bicycle Institute of
America, Incorporated, 122 East
Forty-second Street, New York 17.

INFANT CARE. Federal Security Agen-
cy, Social Security Administration,
Children’s Bureau. Superintendent
of Documents, United States Govern-

mcnt Printing Office, Washington
25, D.C. $.20.

INTERIM CIVIL DEFENSE INSTRUCTIONS
FOR SCHOOLS AND COLLEGES. Fed-
eral Civil Defense Administration.
Superintendent of Documents, Unit-
ed States Government Printing Of-

fice. $.30.

LEADER’S GUIDE, Ann G. Wolfe. Divi-
sion of Youth Services of the Ameri-

can Jewish Committee, 386 Fourth
Avenue, New York 16. $.15.

METROPOLITAN CLEVELAND’S HUMAN
NEEDS. Welfare Federation of Cleve-
land, 1001 Huron Road, Cleveland
15, Ohio. $1.00.

MORAL AND SPIRITUAL VALUES IN THE
PUBLIC SCHOOLS. Educational Poli-
cies Commission, National Educa-
tion Association, 1201 Sixteenth
.Street, NW, Washington 6, D. C.

MUNICIPAL NONPROPERTY TAXES, 1951
SUPPLEMENT To WHERE CITIES GET
THEIR MONEY. Municipal Finance
Officers Association, 1313 East Six-
tieth Street, Chicago 37. $1.50.

MUSICAL DEVELOPMENT OF THE CLASS-
ROOM TEACHER. Music Educators
National Conference, 64 East Jack-
son Boulevard, Chicago 4. $.50.

Books Received

BASEBALL READER, TI‘IE, edited by
Ralph S. Graber. A. S. Barnes and
Company, New York. $3.50.

CHRISTMAS BOOK, A, compiled by D.
B. Wyndham Lewis and G. C. Hesel-

tine. E. P. Dutton and Company,
Incorporated, New York. $3.50.

MEASUREMENT AND EVALUATION IN
PHYSICAL HEALTH AND RECREATION

EDUCATION, Leonard A. Larson and
Rachael Dunaven Yocom. The C. V.
Mosby Company, St. Louis. $7.50.

MYSTERY AT HURRICANE HILL, Jack
Bechdolt. E. P. Dutton and Com-

pany, Incorporated, New York.

$2.50.

SHOWBOATS: THE HISTORY OF AN
AMERICAN INSTITUTION, Philip Gra-
ham. University of Texas Press,

Austin. $3.75.

SOCIAL WELFARE FORUM, THE. OHicial
proceedings, National Conference of

Social Work. Columbia University
Press, New York. $5.00.

-—___________—-1

lthe "HOW" of I

' DAY CAMPS :

and camping I

Do you want to know how to establish
and run a day camp successfully?
Here is a book, says Parents’ Maga-
l zine, that “tells how to organizc a single
day camp or a broad community day
lcamping program, and presents clearly
I a wealth of specific information, includ-
ing an inventory of equipment and sap-
plies and a list of hooks for thc camp
I library.”

THE HANDBOOK
of DAY CAMPING
by Mabel Jobe

. . . “contains a wealth of material”, says
Recreation, “for' those wishing to estab-
lish day camps, or want to enrich and
I extend their present programs. . . . Cov-
l ers the advantages and disadvantages of

day camping, how to start, site problems,
I personnel, health and safety and the at:-

| tiVities program.” $3.00
I _ — _ _ _ - _ _ _ _ _ _ _ '

I ASSOCIATION PRESS I
29] Broadway, New York 7, N.Y. I

 

I Send me capies of THE HANDBOOK I

| or DAY CAMPING by Mabel Jabe @ $3.00 I
I each.

I Name . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. l
I Address . . . . . . .o . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. l
I City, Zane, State . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. l

U Payment herewith (pastpaid) I
I [:1 Bill me (postage extra) I

585

  
   
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   

   

RECREATION

is one of flee fields in w/aic/a
SCHOOL ACTIVITIES

has been serving the schools of America
for twenty years. Under the editorship of
Dr. Harry C. McKown, well-known au-
thority on extracurricular activities, this
monthly magazine promotes the following
interests:

ACTIVITY PROGRAMS — Current thought of leaders in the field of democratic group activities.
SCHOOL ASSEMBLIES — An assembly program for each week of the school year.

CLASS PLAYS—Help in selecting and staging dramatic productions.

CLASS ORGANIZATIONS —— Directions for the successful guidance of school groups.
FINANCING ACTIVITIES —- Suggestions for financing student functions.

ATIILETICS — News and ideas on late developments in intra-mural and interscholastic sports.
DEBATE — Both sides of the current high school debate question.

DEPARTMENT CLUBS — Instructions and aids in the directing of school clubs of all types.
HOME ROOMS — Ideas and plans for educative home room projects:

PEP ORGANIZATIONS — Devices for stimulating loyalty and school spirit.

STUDENT PUBLICATIONS — Guidance in the production of school newspaper and yearbook.
PARTIES AND BANQUETS —Suggestions for educative and wholesome social activities.
STUDENT GOVERNMENT — Sound direction in development of student sense of responsibility.
MISCELLANEOUS ACTIVITIES — Music, commencement, point systems, etc.

Subscription Price  Subscribe N we

School Activities Publishing Co.

1515 LANE STREET TOPEKA, KANSAS

586 RECREATION

 

No Time to Grow Old
Survey on Problems of Aging, New

York State Joint Legislative Com-

mittee 011 Problems of the Aging.

Senator Thomas C. Desmond, Chair-

man. (Free. Write to the committee,

94 Broadway, Newburgh, New

York.)

The purpose of this work is to pre-
sent the observations of many students
in regard to the problems of aging. It
outlines the aims of the committee in
relation to solving these problems in
New York State insofar as legal ac-
tion can be helpful. The report closes
with a reprint of the hills recently in-
troduced in the state senate concerning
the needs of this age grOUp.

Housing, medical research, health
and old age insurance, job opportuni-
ties, job training and recreation are
explored.

Articles range from “Cultural Con-
texts of Aging,” by Dr. Margaret
Mead, Associate Curator of Ethnology,
American Museum of Natural History,
to “Unions and the Older Worker” by
Albert J. Abrams, and include reports
from doctors, administrators, social
workers, representatives of business, in-
dustry and education. _

111 New York the older population
has increased fifty-seven per cent dur-
ing the past twenty years. The need
for extensive research and study of the
problems of the aged, with a view to
extending their happy usefulness, is
emphasized. Cainful employment for
the competent oldster is one of the
most difficult problems, retirement
plans and insurance policies adding to
the complications in some respects.
Adult education and recreation pro-
grams stressing hobby skills are rapid-

MARCH 1952

new

Publications

Covering the Leisure-time Field

ly increasing, stimulus coming from
both the older persons themselves and
professional leaders.

If, as is suggested by some geriatri-
eians, the normal span of life should be
one hundred twenty years, the com-
piled articles and reports of this sur-
vey are a challenge which must be met.

The School Custodian’s
Housekeeping Handbook

Henry H. Linn, Leslie C. Helm and K.
P. Grabarkiewicz. Bureau of Publi-
cations, Teachers College, Columbia
University, New York. $3.75.
Recreation executives and leaders

who are responsible for the operation
of indoor facilities will find this book
an indispensable guide for the day to
day cleaning and maintenance of
everything from gym floors to toilets.
1n easy to understand language, the au-
thors describe the basic tools needed
by custodians, the necessary cleaning
and preservative agents and how they
are used for each operation.

The major part of the book deals
with such specific jobs as mopping
floors, sweeping gym floors, cleaning
windows, cleaning walls and the care
of toilet rooms.

Introductory chapters discuss im-
portant subjects such as the broad rc-
sponsihilities of the custodian and his
relation to the professional staff, the
public and students.
chapter describes how a custodian’s
daily schedule should be drawn up and
how much time should be alloted to
different kinds of cleaning jobs.

Excellent charts and pictures give a
visual description of the correct way to
sweep gym floors and stairs. A check
list in the appendix covers, in detail,

An interesting

the cleaning Operation Of gyms, swim-
ming pools, locker and dressing rooms,
and heating and mechanical service

areas.
Although this book was written for

the school custodian, it equally applies
to the custodian responsible for indoor
rccrcation ccnters.-——David J. DaBois,

Research Department, NRA.

Keep ’Em on Ice

To review the following three books
published by A. S. Barnes and Com-
pany, New York, in a March issue
would really be out of season if it were
not for the number of indoor ice rinks
throughout the country, making ice
skating virtually a year-round sport.
Ice season or not, you’ll want to know
about them.

THE HOCKEY HANDBOOK, Lloyd Perci-
val. $3.75.

This deals with every aspect of the
game for player, coach and spectator.
Both fundamental and advanced skills
are completely outlined in this guide,
and many dozens of offensive and de-
fensivc plays are described and dia-

grammcd.

CHAMPIONSHIP FIGURE SKATING, Gus-
tavc Lussi and Maurice Richards.
$3.75.

This book is ideal for beginners,
because it starts with the assumption
that the reader cannot skate, teaches
him balance and basic strokes, pre-
sents each of the elementary, inter-
mediate, and advanced techniques in
complete detail. The problem of weak
ankles receives special attention. Fif-
ty pages of illustrations supplement the
text with charts, diagrams and photo-
graphs, making it possible for the
beginner to teach himself from the
book. Techniques and figures for ad-
vaneed competition under the rules of
the United States Figure Skating Asso-
ciation and the International Skating
Union are included.

CURLING, Ken Watson. $3.00.

Any eurler will be delighted with
this book, for it tells how the game
is played—to win. Fully illustrated, it
describes how to choose a team, how
to coach it. how to lead it to victory.
Especially helpful to the coach will be
the glossary of terms, with explana-
tory diagrams.

587

