 

Here are the guiding principles, practices
and policies for recreation in America

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

T0p authorities in every held of recreation
Inbor, military, [rare-ma), commercial, in-
.rtitnrionai, governmental . . . have pooled their
vast experience and know-how to bring you
this complete and valuable book

on the guiding prirzcipier of recreation

in America. Never before has there

been anything like it -— for the

 first time, a full set of principle: covering
\____ every aspect of t0tal community
" recreation -— established and printed
in one volume. Complete from his-

torical background and its place in

American life to what recre-

ation offers the individual, the

family, the group and the

community —- including
principles, practices

and policies for

the guidance of all
agencies

interested in

recreation.

This new book, the
result of another National

(.onference held by the

Athletic Institute, offers you valuable
assistance in your recreational work.
Priced at $1.35 each. Order your copy today
from the Athletic Institute, “09 S. State St...
Chicago 4, Illinois

mam rowan; A NON-PRO"! OIOANIIA'ION DIVOTID '0 THE ADVINCIHEH‘

‘0 Nut. «I‘m. - . --
h ‘. OI AHHIIICS IICRIAIION AND "anneal. rnurunou

 

1k

Below are the organizations, which, through their financial support,

make possible the non-profit programs of the Athletic Institute. *

 

 

SEPTEMBER 1952

Aalco Manufacturing Co., St. Louis, Mo.

Ace Carton Co., Chicago, Ill.

Acushnet Process Sales Co., New Bedford, Mass.
Albany Felt Co., Albany, N. Y.

American Box Board Co., Grand Rapids, Mich.
American Felt Co., Glenville Conn.

American Gut String Mfg. o., Chicago, Ill.
American Playground Device Co., Anderson, Ind.
American Thread Co., Chicago, Ill.

Ashaway Llne tr Twine Mfg. Co., Ashaway, R. I.
The Athletic Journal, Chicago, Ill.

Athletic Shoe Co.,—Spot-Bilt, Inc., Chicago, Ill.
Atlas Athletic Equipment Co., St. Louis, Mo.

Bancroft Racket Co., Pawtucket, R. I.

A. S. Barnes 6' Co., New York, N. Y.

The Bike Web Co., Chicago, Ill.

Boys' Lite, New York, N. Y.

Brooks Shoe Mfg. Co., Philadelphia, Pa.
Brunswick-Balke-Collender Co., Chicago, Ill.
Burton Manufacturing Co., Jasper, Ala.

Calnap Tanning Company, Napa, Calif.
Caron Spinning Co., Rochelle, III.

Carron Net Company, Two Rivers, Wis.
Central States Thread Corp., Cincinnati, Ohio
Champion Knitwear Co. Inc., Rochester, New York
Chicago Tanning Co., Chicago, Ill.

Charles F. Clark, Inc., Chicago, Ill.

Samuel Coane, Philadelphia, Pa.

Converse Rubber Co., Chicago, III.

B. A. Corbin is San Co., Marlboro, Mass.
Cornell Forge Co., Chicago, Ill.

Cortland Line Co., Cortland, N. Y.

Charles O. Cox Corp., Memphis, Tenn.
Cramer Chemical Co., Gardner, Kansas
Crown Fastener Corp., New York, N. Y.

Davega-City Radio, Inc., New York, N. Y.

John B. Davidson Woolen Mills, Eaton Raplds,
Mich.

Dayton Racquet Co., Arcanum, Ohio

J. deBeer 6' Son, Albany, N. Y.

Des Moines Glove tr Mfg. Co., Inc., Des Molncs,
Iowa

Dexter-Wayne Co., Lansdale, Pa.

Dixie Mercerizing Co., Chattanooga, Tenn.

Dodge, Inc., Chicago, Ill.

J. A. Dubow Manufacturing Co., Chicago, Ill.

Dunlop Tire tr Rubber Corp., New York, N. Y.

R. J. Ederer Co., Chicago, Ill.
Endicott Johnson Corp., Endicott, N. Y.
Everlast, New York, N. Y.

F. C. Feise Co., Narberth, Pa.

Felco Athletic Wear Co., New York, N. Y.
Field and Flint Co. Brockton, Mass.

The Fish Net 6' Twine Co., Jersey City, N. J.
Fred Medart Products, Inc., St. Louis, Mo.

Game-Time, Inc., thchfield, Mich.

Gem Leather Goods Company, Milwaukee, Wls.
The General Athletic Prods. Co., Greenville, Ohio
General Fibre Box Co., West Springfield, Mass.
General Mills, Inc., Minneapolis, Minn.

General Sportcraft Co. Ltd., New York, N. Y.
Golfcraft, Inc., Chicago, Ill.

Goltdom, Chicago, Ill.

The B. F. Goodrich Co., Akron, Ohio

J. H. Grad Mtg. Co., St. Louis, Mo.

Gunnison ros., Inc., Girard, Pa.

Haartx-Mason, Inc., Watertown, Mass.
Hanna Manufacturing Co., Athens, Ga.
Harvard Specialty Manufacturing Corp.,
Cambridge, Mass.
H. Harwood 6' Sons, Natick, Mass.
James Heddon's Sons, Dowa iac, Mich.
Hillerich 6' Bradsby Co., Lou sville, Ky.
Hilts-Willard Glove Corp., Gloversvilie, New York
lesch Fabrics Corp., New York, N. Y.
Hoffmann-Stattord Tanning Co., Chicago, Ill.
Alan Howard, Inc., New York, N. Y.
The J. L. Hudson Co., Detroit, Mich.
Hughes-Consolidated, Inc., New York, N. Y.
Hutchinson Bros. Leather Co., Cincinnati, Ohlo
Hyde Athletlc Shoe Co., Cambridge, Mass.

Illinois Mechanical Leather Co., Chicago, Ill.
Industrial Sports Journal, Chlcago, Ill.
Ivory System, Peabody, Mass.

Thf‘Jolhnstown Knitting Mill Co., Johnstown,
Jane's  Naudin, Inc., Gloversville, N. Y.
E. P. Juneman Corp., Chicago, Ill.

Arthur Kahn Co., New York, N. Y.

Knox Reeves Advertising, Inc., Minneapolis,
Minn.

Joseph G. Kren, Syracuse, N. Y.

The Kroydon Co., Maplewood, N. J.

Lamkin Leather Co., Chicago, III.
A. C. Lawrence Leather Co., Peabody, Mass.
The Linen Thread Co., New York, N. Y.

MacGregor Goldsmith, Inc., Cincinnati, Ohlo
MacGregor Golt Co., Cincinnati, Ohio

N. J. Magnan Corp., North Attleboro, Mass.
Marba, Inc., Buffalo, N. Y.

Marshall Clothing Mfg. Co., Butler, Ind.
Martin is Martin, Chicago, Ill.
McLaughlin-Millard, Inc., Dolgeville, N. Y.
The Meyercord Co., Chicago, Ill.

The Moneco Co., New Haven, Conn.

National Baseball Congress, Wichita, Kans.

National Bowling Council, Toledo, Ohio

National Electrical Mfg. Assn., New York, N. Y.

National Sporting Goods Association, Chicago,

Ill., representing all its sporting goods dealer

members.

Naxonal Sports Equipment Co., Fond du Lac,
is.

National Vulcanized Fibre Co., Wilmington, Del.

F. H. Noble 6 Company, Chicago, Ill.

Nocona Leather Goods Co. Nocona, Texas

Nonpariel Manufacturing Co., St. Louis, Ma.

The Ohio-Kentucky Mfg. Co., Ada, Ohla

Palm, Fechteler tr Co., Weehawken, N. J.
Ben Pearson Inc., Pine Blutf, Ark.
Pedersen Manufacturing Co., Wilton, Conn.
Pennsylvania Rubber Co., Jeannette, Pa.

F. C. Phillips, Inc., Stoughton, Mass.
Powers Manufacturing Co., Waterloo, Iowa
A. H. Pugh Printing Co., Cincinnati, Ohio

Rawlings Manufacturing Co., St. Louls, Mo.

Geo. A. Reach Co., Philadelphia, Pa.

Red Fox Mfg. Co., (Division of Cullum Cr Borerl
Co.I, Dallas, Texas

Hans Rees’ Sons, New York, N. Y.

Charles A. Richardson, Inc., West Mansfield,
Mass.

John T. Riddell, Inc., Chicago, III.

A. H. Ross is Sons Co., Chicago, Ill.

Sand Knitting Mills Co., Chicago, Ill.

Sawyer Tanning Co., Napa, Calif.

Scholastic Corporation, New York, N. Y.

The Seamless Rubber Co., New Haven, Conn.

Sears, Roebuck tr Co., Chicago, Ill.

Sells Aerial Tennis Co., Kansas City, Kansas

R. S. L. Shuttlecocks Co., Altoona, Pa.

Siegmund Werner, Inc., New York, N. Y.

Ed. W. Simon Co., New York, N. Y.

Slazengers, Inc., New York, N. Y.

William Skinner tr Sons, New York, N. Y.

Sol-glhern Manufacturing Co., Alexander City,

a.

A. G. Spalding tr Bros., Inc., New York, N. Y.

The Sporting Goods Dealer, St. Louis, Mo.

The Sporting News, St. Louis, Mo.

Sports Age, New York, N. Y.

Stall tr Dean Mfg. Co., Brockton, Mass.

Stewart Iron Works Co., Cincinnati, Ohio

Stowe-Woodward, Inc., Newton Upper Falls,
Mass.

H. Swoboda Cr Son, Inc., Philadelphia, Pa.

Textile Yarn Co., Chicago, Ill.

Tober Baseball Mfg. Co., Manchester, Conn.
True Temper Corp., Cleveland, Ohio
Tucker-Brame Athletic Mfg. Co., Batesville, Miss.

Union Welt Corp., Chicago, Ill.
United States Rubber Co., New York, N. Y.
Universal Bleacher Co., Champaign, III.

Victor Sports, Inc., Chicago, Ill.

Virginia Rubatex Div. Great American Indus-
tries, lnc., Bedford, Va.

W. J. Voit Rubber Corp., Los Angeles, Calif.

H. Wagner tr Adler Co., New York, N. Y.
Western Auto Supply Co., Kansas City, Mo.
Wilson Sporting Goods Co., Chicago, Il.
Worthington Ball Co., Elyria, Ohio

C. W. Zumbiel Co., Norwood, Ohio

Besides the above. The Athletic Institute has at:
associate membership com rised of a considerable
number of sgortirz goo s dealers, geogra hirally
spread throng out i e United States. Spaw oer not
allow listing of these dealers individually.

185

MA

\ l. u

t IN BASBALLandS

w“; R mm. ATION

 

SEPTEMBER, 1952

Editor in Chief, JOSEPH PRENDERCAST
Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON
BUSINESS MANAGER, ROSE JAY SCHWARTZ

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Recreation Administration, GEORGE BUTLER
Program Activities, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

Vol. XLVI Price 35 Cents No. 4

 

 

On the Cover

Cool September evenings enhance the recreation
value of friendly gatherings around a fireplace, as
evidenced by the contented expressions of these
young peOple toasting marshmallows. Fields and
woods now carry the promise of Fall, and boys and
girls take their last fling in the out-of-doors before
settling down to their studies. Photo by courtesy of
Department of Conservation, State of Tennessee.

Next Month

With the criSp air of “bright blue” October comes
new vigor and the desire to bring zip to our recrea-
tion programs with ncw ideas and new activities.
Watch for this issue of RECREATION, for just the
right suggestions. Among the program articles, “Reci-
pes for Fun” will offer specific games for an inter-
national party on United Nations Day (October 24) ;
“Radio for Amateurs" will explain how a recreation
departincnt revived a lagging program with a new
idea; and “Reading IS Recreation” will carry sug-
gestions for Book Week (November 16 to 22). Hal-
lowcen will receive further attention, and even
Christmas planning enters the picture.

Photo Credits

Page 191, (top) Davis, Rocky Mountain News; 195,
196, Santa Barbara News-Press; 197, Gazette and
Daily, York, Pennsylvania; 199, (mp, left) Row-
land, Seattle, (bottom, left) Fabian Bachrach; 201,
(right) Spokane Daily Chronicle; 202, 204, F. S.
Lincoln, New York City; 206, Milwaukee Sentinel;
207, State Department of Recreation, Montpelier,
Vermont; 209, United States Army—Bobick; 213,
LaCrossc, Wisconsin, Division of Municipal and

School Extension; 216, 217, Miller-Martin Studio,
Torrington, Connecticut.

RECREATION is published monthly except July
and August by the National Recreation Association,
a service organization supported by voluntary con-
tributions, at 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10,
New York; is on tile in public libraries and is
indexed in the Readers’ Guide. Subscriptions $3.00
a year. Canadian agency, G. R. Weleh Company,
Ltd., 1149 King Street West, Toronto 1, Ontario;
Canadian subscription rate $3.85. Re-entered as
second—class matter April 25, 1950, at the Post
OlIice in New York, New York, under act of
March 3, 1879. Acce tanee for mailing at special
mic of postage provi ed for in section 1103, Act
of October 3, 1917, authorized May 1, 1924.

Advertising and Production Olliee: Iones Press,
Fifth and Fifth South, Minneapolis 15, Minnesota.

Space Representatives: II. 'I'haycr Heaton, 141
East 44 Street, New York 17, New York; Mark
Minahan. 168 North Michigan Avenue, Chicago,
Illinois; Keith 11. Evans, 593 Market Street, Suite
30-1, San Francisco 5, California.

. Copyright, 1952, by the
National Recreation Association, Incorporated

Printed in the U.S.A. anon:
°Trade mark registered in the U. S. Patent Office.

 

SEPTEMBER 1952

MAGAZINE

OF

  
   
 

MOVEMENT
CONTENTS

THE RECREATION

General Features

Sports and War (Editorial), S. L. A. Marshall ................ .. 192
Sports Of Presidents .......................................................... .. 196
34th National Congress
Evening Speakers .......................................................... .. 199
At Your Service ............................................................ .. 200
New Congress Arrangements ........................................ .. 201
A Country Club with Your  202
Dorothy Enderis ---—“L8[tt.$8li§” ..............................  ........ .. 206

The Square Dance Crosses the Sea
Square and Folk Dancing in Japan, Dorothea B. Munro 209

Letters tO the NRA ........................................................ .. 210
NRA Discounts .................................................................. .. 211
United Nations Day ...................................................... .  224
The Value Of Play in Children’s Homes, Helen Dauncey . 227
PeOple and Events .............................................................. .. 232

Administration
Leisure-Time Interests and Activities .............................. .. 205
HOW the Recreation Executive Appraises

His Own Performance .................................................. .. 219
Notes for the Administrator .............................................. .. 220
Public Opinion Aids Park OHicials .................................. .. 229
ASpllalt and Concrete Surfaces ........................................ .. 230

Program
A Youth Council, R. J. MacDonald .................................. .. 195
Educational and Cultural Activities in

Community Centers ...................................................... .. 197
Let’s Check Up on Square Dancing, Persis Leger ............ .. 207
Rules—mFivc-Man Football, James J. Rafferty .................. .. 208
Make Your Plans for Goblin Time

Trick or Treat, Sibyl Leah Templeton .......................... .. 212

Operation Pumpkin Head, Ann Brenner .................. .. . 213

Community-wide Halloween Planning Establishing

New Customs ............................................................ .. . 214

Who Is “Mr. Jack-O-Lantern?” Carl Bozenski .......... .. 215
Teen-Age Rhythms, Anne Livingston .............................. .. 222
Basketball—The Game Way ..........................................  225

How TO DO It! Make a Magazine Rack, Frank E. Staples 244

Regular Features

Things You Should Know ................................................. .. 189
Letters .................................................................................. .. 190
Personnel ............................................................................ .. 233
Recipes for Fun-"Leaf Printing ...................................... .. 235
Personnel—Recreation Salaries (A Study) .................... .. 237
“Training Course Information ..................... .. 243
Recreation Market News  245
Books Received .................................................................. .. 246
Magazines ............................................................................ .. 246
Pamphlets ............................................................................ .. 247
New Publications .............................................................. .. 248
Recreation Leadership Courses ...................... ..Insidc Back Cover

187

NATIONAL RECREATION

 

   

BOARD OF DIRECTORS

F. W. H. Aonut........... . . . . . . . . . ....NetrYork..\'. Y. .\1at.Jou.\°DJnusos.....................Bellport..'.Y.
F.GarocBtuts.............................Boaton.hiass. SctaxM.Lu . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ............\'en-ank.N.Y.
hlat. Roasat Wooot Buss. . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .W‘athington. D. C. Ono 1'. Manny” . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phiiadelphis. Pa.
hlas.Aarm.-a G.Crunch”...............Jacktonyille.Fla. CAI]. F.5itt1tttx....... . . . . ................Augusta.hie.

tum”. l1, Dun......,... . . . . ..........‘¢w York..’.Y. hiat.0t.ornt LMIIH . . . . . . . . ... . . . . ......NewYork..'.Y.

HAII‘IP.DAVIION................ . . . . . ..NewYork..'.Y. PaulMoon.1a.........................JcrteyCity.N.J.

Gntoao Dosssulr. . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . .Chicago. Ill. Jostru Ptsxotacntr . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .New York. N. Y.

Mas. Pun. Guucttn. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Ornaha. Nebr. Mat. SIGHL'NO SHIN. . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . .San Francisco. Calif.
RattatCatlin”.........................Baltitnorc.hld. Gt.tx‘rTrnwontt..........................'orotnn.Conn.

Mat. Nouns llnaonat. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Fitchhurg. hists. Mat. Wuunu \‘ns Aux. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Philadelphia. Pa.

Mat. Cttaates V. lltcsox...............Michigan City. Ind. J. C. Within”..........................Yonkert. N. Y.
Farotttcx M. WAIIL'IG. .. ..... . .....  .New York. N. Y.

 

IIEADQUA RTERS STAFF

Rtsnarch annrtmnnt Send“ to Slater. . . . . . Roanr R. GANIL!

Encuties Dirnctor'a 05c:
Geo-ca E. Dtcata Tttouat E. Rtratt
HtLoa liaasttou Atttwt thunus

Atrtao ii. Futon

Coeentpondnncn and Contultntion
Servicn

Vtacmu Hanan-tan
Grarsuoa Ioacuaao

Rncrsntion Magntinn
Down" DONALOION

Splcitl Publications
Ron Jtt‘r Scatwnan Meant. McGattrt

Paraonntl Ssnica
Vtuuo C. Smutauno Atrno 3. Jesus
Matt GUIIIHA‘I'

Groaca D. Btrrua
Dunn J. Dchort

Are“ and Fariiitier—Pianning and Sart'eyt
H. C. Hurcmm Ann 3. Bussm
LIILIE Ltttcu

ELIIAIU'H Cur-tort

wn'k 'i‘h "alumna Kaiberine F. Baler Memorial

Srrretary for Women and Girit

Haurt M. Da use“

Mu? Quin Manon" Basswoaru

ialnttrtai Recreation . . . . . .C. E. B“!!!
Fitld Dspnrtannnt
Rn‘reettoa Lulrrtbi’ Training Conrset

RUTH Euuas Amen Lnrncatou
Mtunro Seaman Faun A. Stu-Let
Glue: Wallta

Cttaaus E. lzao Janet A. Mnotsou
Groaca T. Ann-u Hausa G. Hort
thttaao 5. Warrant:

 

DISTRICT RI-II’RESENTATIV iS

New England DilHiCl Southnen Dittrict

fauna l. iiumwoattt..norron. Mn".
(Pretcnt tddreaa . . . New York}

Middle Atlantic Disteicl
Josm V. Faust. . . . . .Eatt Orange. N. J.
Game: A. leam. . ..New York. .‘. Y.

Sonthwtsl Dittricl

L‘l.‘  P‘IRCI.. . .  v‘.  VAN ahliOALl. o n n o r .D‘ll". Tet.

Rut-u Vane Fun. . . . . .Clearwater. Fla.

Vtutau M. Hut. . . . . . .Nashvilie. Tenn. pnisc Nonh'." Dina“

Vtuuo Ii. Stun-Into. . . . .Seattle. I'aah.

Mod 0. .
Grant Lnltns District ' "“ "m"
JOHN J. COUJII . . . . . . . . . .Toledo. Ohio

noun 1.. Heart“. .. . . . .Madison. Wis.

Paciic Senthwssr Diateict
ham 5. loan“. ... .Loa Angeles. Calif.

Atrttct Torin. . . . . . . . .Kantas City. Mo.
liaaou Lettuce. . . . . . . . .Danver. Coin.

 

Contributors

Aliilinle Membership

Ailists membership in the Nstionsl
lscrestion Assuelstinn is open to all non-
prois private and pnhlic orgsniaationt
when imtlon is wholly or prirnsrily the
provision or promotion of recrestion serv-
ices or which inclnde recreation as an Ins-
portant part of their total program and
who“ cooperation in tin Work oi thl atto-
eistinn would. lo the opinion oi the attu-
cistion‘s Board of Directors. inrtlaer she
ands oi the nstinnsl recrastion WHICII.

Active Associate Membership

Active. stmciste membership in the
National Recreation Attocistion It open to
sll individnsls who srr actively eogsged
on a full-time or part-titan enploytd batis
or ss volunteers in a nonproGt prints or
public recreation orgsniaation and whose
cooperstion in the work of the association
would. in tht opinioo oi the sssocistton's
Bosrd of Directors. further thl tndt oi the
national reerestion movement.

The continuation oi the work oi the
Nstional Recreation Asaoeiation irorn year
to year is made postihk hy the splendid
cooperation ni tetrersl hundred volunteer
sponsors throughout the country. and the
generous contributions of thoutandt oi sn -
:0"ch oi this movement In hrin; heslt .

sppinets snd crestive living to the boys
and Iifll and the anen and women of
Arnerics. If on would lihe to loin in the
tnpport oi t it movement. on easy send
your contrshution direct to t e association.

 

The National Recreation Association is a natiom
wide. nonprofit. nonpolitical and nonseetarian civic
organiution. established in 1906 and supported by
voluntar contributions. and dedicated to the terr-
iee ol al recreation executives. leader) and agen-

ciea. public and private. to the end that every child
in America shall have a place to play in taler and
that every person in America. young and old. altall
have an Op rtunity lor the beat and most satisly-
in: nae ol is expanding Ieirure time.

For further information regarding the association's services and membership. pieare write to the
Executive Director. Aatianai Recreation Association. .375 Fourth Avenue. New York 10. New York.

1 t
A S S 0 Cl A'l IO N
A Service Orgattimtiort Supported by Voluntary Contributions
JOSEPH PR ENDERCAST. Executive Director
OFFICERS
Ono T. MALLII‘I. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .Chairtnsn oi the Board
Pam. Moon. 11.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .First Vice-President
Mat. Ocean L. Mtus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sccond Vice-President
SUSAN M. Ln. .Third Vice-President and Secretsry of the Bosrd
Aoaun M.Matsta............................Treuurer . .
Gustavus T. Klan. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Treasurer Emeritus
Jonrtt Paasollcan”.......................- -$ecrettry
E. Burstca Staaaut

 

18?. RECREATION

 

b TIIE COURT CASE ON BLACKTOP
SURFACING for playground areas has
been won by the city of Los Angcles.
The case grew out of two recent deaths
which occurred after falls on hard-
surfaced areas. The evidence seemed to
point to the fact that . . . how you land
is more significant than what you fall
on, in determining the severity of in-

jury...

b TIIE LOCATION AND ACQUISITION 0F
PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS was one of
the subjects discussed at one-day in-
stitutcs on municipal planning con-
ducted in five Wisconsin cities during
March by the League of Wisconsin
Municipalities in cooperation with the
State Planning Division.

P A NEW SPECIAL DEFENSE PUBLICA-
TION, Community Recreation for De-
fense Workers, is now available free
from the National Recreation Associ-
ation. This is the third in a series, and
a companion piece to Emergency Ree-

reation Services in Civil Defense and
Off-Post Recreation [or the Armed
Forces.

F ERRATA. In the article, “Blacktop
for Apparatus Areas,” on page 19 of
the April 1952 issue of RECREATION,
the following correction should be
made in the table under point number
9: heading of last column of figures
should bc changed to read “Number
Not Installed on BlacktOp.” This cor-
rection will be made on reprints. Our
apologies.

P A STUDY OF PUBLIC RECREATION
PROPERTIES, PROGRAM AND INTER-
AGENCY RELATIONSIIIPS in the city of
Philadelphia has recently been com-

pleted by the National Recreation As-
sociation.

P A RECREATIONAL THERAPY SECTION
of the Recreation Division of the
American Association for Health,
Physical Education and Recreation,
was organized at the April 1952 con-
vention of that organization, “to pro-
vidc additional opportunities for recre-
ation personnel at public and private
hospitals, training and boarding schools
for the exceptional and the mentally
retarded, rehabilitation centers and
camps, to become and remain well-
informed on trends and deveIOpments

I SEPTEMBER 1952

in the field of recreation therapy.”

F CONTINUED OPERATION OF THE
MICHIGAN INTER-AGENCY COUNCIL FOR
RECREATION became assured for the
immediate future when the Michigan
Legislature, at its regular session,
voted the council an apprOpriation of
$11,498 for the fiscal year ending June
1953. The Inter-Agency Council for
Recreation was originally experimen-
tal, designed to coordinate the services
of all state agencies having an interest
in recreation, and was supported by
funds made available from the W. K.
Kellogg Foundation. There are inter-
agency committees and councils in a
number of states, but Michigan be-
comes the first state to appropriate
funds specifically for an interagency
organization.

b PROVING THAT SOME COMMUNITIES
ARE PLACING A HIGH VALUE ON PARKS
comes the news that Johnstown, Penn-
sylvania, recently rejected a proposal
to sell a park tract as a site for a new
school.

* A SUPPLEMENT TO THE REPRINT of
“A Study of Public Golf Course Oper-
ation,” from the May 1952 issue of
RECREATION, explaining the chart in
that article, is now available from the
National Recreation Association.

P A MEETING OF TIIE CONFERENCE
FOR NATIONAL COOPERATION IN
AQUATICS is scheduled for October 30
to November 1, at Yale University. lts
theme will be Leadership in Aquatics.
The program will include work group
discussions, pool demonstrations and
general sessions. One of the work
groups will consider principles in plan-
ning and constructing swimming pools.

b AT A MEETING OF TIIE SCIIOOL AND
COLLEGE DIVISION OF TIIE NATIONAL
SAFETY COUNCIL, to he held on Oc-
tober 19 in Chicago, there will be a
panel discussion of the subject, Play-
ground Surfacing. This tOpic will also
he discussed at the conference of the
American Institute of Park Executives,
to be held in Montreal, September 15
to 18.

P A NATIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE
ON RECREATION RESEARCH has just
been appointed and will hold its first

meeting at the National Recreation
Congress in Seattle.

P THE ATIILETIG INSTITUTE has an-
nounced the early fall publication of a
booklet entitled: “Recreation for Com-
munity Living,” which was developed
at the National WorkshOp on Recrea-
tion held in May. Some thirty or so
outstanding recreation lcaders, includ-
ing a representative of the NRA, par-
ticipated in the workshop.

b A PRELIMINARY REPORT, Conclu-
sions and Suggested Principles, has
been prepared by the Committee on
Highly Organized Competitive Sports
and Athletics for Boys Twelve and
Under. This has been sent to recreation
and park executives for study, and will
be presented for discussion at the
meeting on Midget Athletics, at the
Seattle National Recreation Congress.

> AT THE NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF
STATE PARKS, to be held in Rapid
City, South Dakota, September 14 to
18, an address will be delivered by
Joseph Prendergast, executive director
of the NRA, on the subject of Off-Post

Recreation in State Parks.

> THE 6TH NATIONAL RECREATION
CONGRESS OF JAPAN was attended in
August by Tom Rivcrs, Assistant Ex-
ecutivc Dircctor of the NRA, as a rep-
resentative of the association.

Position Open

The Civil Service Commission of
Los Angcles County, California,
will soon announce a nation-wide,
Open competitive examination for
the position of Recreation Superin-
tendent for the Los Angeles County
Department of Parks and Recrea-
tion. It is hoped that candidates
with administrative experience in
the recreation field will be attracted
to this position, which heads all rec-
reation activities of the department.
Salary at present is $545 a month.

The examination will be both
written and oral, with three dis-
tinguished recreation specialists par-
ticipating in the selection. It has
been planned to schedule interviews
in Los Angeles and in Seattle be-
fore, during, and after the National
Recreation Congress.

The commission has stressed that
it will not be necessary to come to
Los Angeles for the written portion
of the examination and urges all
those interested in securing further
information to write to the Los
Angeles County Civil Service Com-
mission, 501 North Main Street. Los
Angeles 12, California.

189

 

Funday

Sirs:

I have had some very pleasant cor-
reSpondenee with Mr. A. Wilson Lloyd
of the Association of American Play-
ing Card Manufacturers. After receiv-
ing a trick book from Mr. Lloyd, we
had so much “fun” with it, that the
idea occurred to me that—as there are
so many special days celebrated na-
tionally—why not a “funday?” That is
what these card games are.

I wrote to Mr. Lloyd, jotting down
my suggestion and, to my surprise, I
received a letter from him, saying that
he had read the letter to his associa-
tion and my suggestion had been re-
ecivcd with interest. He then wrote
that it would be better for your com-
pany to develop the idea, since you
develop an interest in other activities
besides cards.

Mas. PETER Semrsn,

Stream, New York.

Valley

"I All A Stranger"

Sirs:

Ilello! l am a stranger to you, so I
am a Hobo-Vagabond. You are a
stranger to me, so you are a lIobo to
me. I have been a IIobo for forty years
out of fifty-five and I suppose l will
continue being a Hobo-Vagabond,
which is all my own fault. I cannot
blame anyone else-“Not the folks,
School, Church or Community—for it’s
all my own I’loting in my youth. It
is a life I love to live-r-lree from Care
of Someone else. I don't have many

190

Friends and I don’t need many. Just
twenty-five friends is all I have, and
they supply me with all the faults
about myself. I couldn’t trust anyone
-—not even my own Folks or relations,
church or anyone in the Local Com-
munity, l Dought if anyone in the
State or United States. When you can't
trust your own, how can you trust any-
one else? Usury, Thief and Conspiracy
work against you. Sports, Entertain-
ment and Amusement! Will that solve
the dilliculty? I will try it out this year
and see what results.

HARRY E. LEATHERWOOD, Dodge

City, Kansas.

.The above letter is reproduced ex-
actly as received. I’erhaps our hobo
friend will visit your town-"lid.

Army Request
Sirs:

Captain Mills, of the Army Special
Services at Guam IIall, asked if it
might be possible to get one thousand
reprints of two articles in the March
issue of RECREATION: “Some Thoughts
on Being 8 Recreation Leader,” by
llelen Dauneey (page 513) and “Com-
munity Leaders Use Your Initiative."
hy Sherwood Gates (page 553). He
would like to Use them in connection
with the training of leaders in Special
Services.

Geouoc E. Dream. Ea'eentire Secre-

tary, Federal Inter-Agency Commit-

tee on Recreation, Washington, D.C.

.These re nested reprints have been
supplied.— Id.

Suggest-lions
Sirs:

I would like to make the following
suggestions as added features to the
wonderful service rendered by the Na-
tional Recreation Association to all its
members.

1. Leather binders that will hold
twelve issues of the RECREATION maga-
zine, with the last issue carrying an
index of the contents of the previous
magazines for that year.

2. A calendar of future events for
all recreation directors, that will in-
clude all holidays, as well as reminders
to start work on various activities
scheduled, and one that would have at
least one special event per month or a
special event for each age group per
month, with the events to fit into the
season—as the baseball league for the
baseball season and softball for soft-
ball season, and so on. This could be
sold to the recreation workers at a
profit to the National Recreation Asso-
eiation.

3. I would like to see you continue
sending out the nine by five and one-
half inch bulletins that are suitable
for filing. I have always found them
chock-full of good information that
makes a ready reference for our di-
rectors.

BEN YORK, Director of Reereation,
West Palm Beaeh, Florida.

. Prices for leather binders are being
investigated. Our last issue of our fiscal
year—March—always carries an index
for the year. We would like to remind
readers, here, of the Calendar 0/ Holi-

days and Speeial Days (MP 412)

available from the association for
twenty-five cents—Ed.

Reel-enthu-

Sirs:

Many times, when appearing as
speakers before civic groups, parent-
teacher associations and other organi-
zations, recreation superintendents, di-
rectors or staff supervisors have been
asked the following: “What thoughts
are uppermost in the mind of a recre-
ation leader in preparing a recreation
program?" or “How shall we. as an
organization. and the public, define the
‘Reereation'?" Reeently. when
preparing notes for such an appear-
ance, these thoughts were foremost in
my mind, and in endeavoring to com-

wo rd

RECREATION

bine the two questions and present a

clear definition, the following method

was used:

ll “Resolve to develop a sound pro-
gram.

E—Evaluate the needs of your 6011]-
munity carefully.

C —-——Create hobbies and fun for the
entire family.

ll “Relax and use your leisure time
for your own pleasure.

 

E Enjoy the pleasant programs in
your community.
A Ask others to participate with

 

you.

T———Tell your community of your rcc-
reation plans.

I —-——lnstill civic spirit in all persons
you meet.

0 ——Older groups as well as young
people need recreation. Don’t for-
get them.

N———New ideas are always needed. Use
them whenever it is possible.

AL HILEMAN, Director, Proctor
Recreation Center, Peoria, Illinois.

School Planning

Sirs:

The article on this subject which
appeared in your January, 1952, issue
is timely and interesting.

I would like to add the name of
Birmingham high school of Birming-
ham, Michigan, as one of the new
schools which was planned for meeting
community and recreation needs as
well as those which are traditional iii
nature. In addition to class and special
activity sections, a native woods, four
hundred-car parking lot, little theatre,
patio, greenhouse, athletic area, li-
brary, cafeteria, physical education
unit and lobby are included in the
over-all design. This is one way in
which a small city (under 20,000) is
attempting to meet the needs of a
modern community. Although the three
and one-half million dollar structure
will not be completed until the na-
tatorium and auditorium units are pro-
vided, some sections of the building
are now available.

FRANK WHITNEY, Recreation Direc-

tor, Birmingham, Michigan.

\\'1- Take- Issue

Sirs:
We read with a great deal of inter-

SEPTEMBER 1952

 

est the article, “Young Anglers,” ap-
pearing in the April, 1952, issue of
RECREATION. We, here in Denver, Col-
orado, wish to congratulate the people
of San Jose who had a part in their
juvenile fishing rodeo, but we do take
issue with them for the photograph of
the prize winner for the best Becky
Thatcher outfit.

Since 1948, the municipal recrea-
tion department, City and County of
Denver, has been conducting a Huckle-
berry Finn Day, which each year is
co-sponsored by the Veterans of For-
cign Wars and the Rocky Mountain
News. Huckleberry Finn Day is in-
corporated under the provisions of the
Colorado statutes; and its object is
instituting, furthering, fostering, pro-
teeting, improving and promoting the
interests, ideals and education of boys
and girls through the observance of
an annual celebration commemorating
Huckleberry Finn, Becky Thatcher,
Tom Sawyer and other fictional char-
aeters appearing in Mark Twain’s
stories.

We have done a great deal of re-
search and study of all characters, as
portrayed‘by Mark Twain. To quote
a few facts about Becky Thatcher, we
find she was a lady in all manners and
mannerisms. Becky is pictured as a
blonde, pudgy, blue-eyed, little girl
with yellow hair in pigtails and hangs.
In that day, little girls’ skirts were
long and full and they wore pantalettes
and sunbonnets. Above all else, Becky
Thatcher was afraid of fish and fish-
worms, and—being a lady———would
never so much as touch a fish pole, let
alone be seen barefooted, wearing
pants and a straw hat, as portrayed by
the prize winner for the best Becky
Thatcher outfit.

 

 

Denver’s little Becky Thatcher “ladies.”

Denver, Colorado, is justly proud of
its annual Huckleberry Finn Day,
which attracts four to five thousand
participants and many thousands more
of spectators each year. All boy and
girl contestants are urged to read the
writings of Mark Twain, in order to
be familiar with the points upon which
the judges select the most authentic
Huck Firm and Becky Thatcher. We do
have a responsibility for authenticity
in any promotion, don’t we? Not wish-
ing the beloved Mark Twain to turn
over in his grave because of the way
his Becky has been portrayed, we are
enclosing photographs of Denver’s
Becky Thatcher, authentic in details.

J. EARL SCHLUPP, Director of Rec-

reation, City and County of Denver.

Pla-ade Portable Stagefront

. . . for Junior Dramatics

Makes a real stage, not a puppet show—ap-
peals to children who like to dress up and
give little plays—encourages good play habits,
in and out-of-doors—entertains many at one
time; as actors, curtain puller, property man,
etc.

Sturdin built, easy to set-up (without tools)
attractively decorated, curtain pulls e'asily.
Assembled—8 feet wide by 6 high by 1%
deep, stores in 5 x 1 x yé feet. Shipping
weight 31 lbs.

Price $25.00, less 20% discount to Bec-
reation Departments. Allow 1/3 ship-
ping cost up to $6.00.

WALTER L. LUKENS
3611 S. Wakefield Street, Arlington, Va.

191

SOME WEEKS AGO I was asked if dur-
ing my years of research into
what happened among the active ele-
ments in our fighting lines in the Pa-
cific, Europe and Korea, I had found
any correlation between the extent of
the individual's participation in sport
and his readiness to give fully of him.
self when the last chips were down.

By the measuring stick which should
apply within the armed services, the
fault in us is not that we have too
much organized sport but too little. A
large and continuing sampling of this
question was made at Fort Knox about
four years ago. It was found that
among American youth getting into
adulthood, fifty-six per cent had never
participated in a team game! Yet, war,
as Field Marshall Sir Archibald Wavell
wrote in his Leaders and Leadership,
can only be compared to a “rough and
brutal team game."

How do men generate unity of ac-
tion? We yak-yak in baseball and slap
the other guy in football to let him
know we are with him. And so his
strength grows apace. It is no different
in war. Silence betokens fear, and its
grip can only be broken when someone
regains his voice and thereby stimu-
lates others to sound off.

At Burton lsland, during the inva-
sion of the Marshalls, we saw a com-
pany go to pieces under Japanese fire
until one man, Sergeant Deini, sudden-
ly realized that his outfit was dying
from paralysis of the vocal chords. Ile
began yelling, kept it Up for one and
one-half hours, and pulled the company
out of it. Deini had been a scmipro
ballplayer in San Francisco.

This one graphic example sct many
of us thinking. In World War 1, our
tr00ps had been a noisy gang, they
yelled as if full of the old college
hustle. liut this quality had disappeared
in between wars. The restraint seemed
unnatural in our World War II fight-
ing, and it seemed plain that it was
sappng our power.

So a change was made, and “some-
thing new," yet very old, was added.
Our men were taught to yell again in
the spirit of a team: yell anything.
college cheers. Comanche war whoops,
wolf howls. or Chinese profanity but
yell. In my judgment, nothing has paid
off more greatly dnring the fighting in

192

Korea. There are even some actions of
record which our troops have won
more by their pandemonie yelling than
by the killing effect of their weapons.

Sports, \Var Both Stress Team Play

In some degree, every person who
comes to admire the quality in sport
which enables a group of highly-
skilled individuals to subordinate them-
selves to the need for smooth, collected
action, becomes receptive to the same
controlling idea in his participation
with others. He has accepted the be-
lief that being a member of a team is
better than achieving as an individual.

But team play is something which
must be taught in an army, as on the
ball field. Men do not come by it natu-
rally. lts basic technique is voluntary
cooperation and submission to the in-
terests of the group.

When we mobilize, whence come the
men who are able, by their leading,
to convert into dynamic force the stat-
ic interest of the great majority?

To a far greater extent than college
presidents appreciate, or even the gen-
erals understand, not having measured
it. they come from the playing fields of
this nation. There are not enough old
sergeants to spread around, and be-
sides, they specialize mainly in the
mechanics of their trade.

War’s small picture is a series of
end runs, off-tackle bucks and center
rushes, and if the team does not hold
together during each play, it loses
yardage and the ball changes hands.

One major difference between in-
fantry fighting and any other team
game is that the contest almost invari-
ably begins with a withering, or evapo-
ration, of the team spirit and action.
It is bound to be so when men's lives
are directly in danger.

Engendcring Team Spirit

The prevailing problem in the first
quarter is to shake men loose from
their somber personal thoughts and re-
vitalize their essential bonds of unity.
That is an hour whieh calls for strong
imlividualism. directed, however, to.
ward the restoration of team play. One
man takes positive action; his example
breaks the spell of fear, and because
of it. many others see that action is
their salvation. In this way, the team

A Guest Editorial

SPORT S

finds itself, and out of chaos comes
unity.

As a military matter, probably not
the least of the values inherent in or-
ganized sport’s accent on team play is
that the individual, once won to the
principle, becomes more capable of
high personal initiative when the cir-
cumstances require it.

Sports That Teach Throwing
Arc Priceless

During the crisis of last winter‘s
campaign against the Chinese in Korea.
the youngsters in our infantry line
had to become strong grenadiers al-
most overnight. In the earlier fighting
the North Koreans made indifferent
use of the grenade. So it didn’t matter
much that our troops lacked thorough
training with that weapon, and that we
had proceeded somewhat on the theory
that any American youngster can
heave a rock or a snowball, and, there-
fore, converting him to a grenadier
was as easy as rolling off a log.

When the Chinese entered the war,
they published a secret training paper,
saying that all Americans were terror.
ized by grenades and could always be
whipped if the grenade was made the
main weapon in the assault line.

That was a pipcodream, but this hand-
ieap didn’t keep them from proceed-
ing with the idea. When they first
charged us in Korea, their assault
waves were loaded with grenades of the
“potato masher" type, which they
might be able to throw as far as fifteen
yards.

What they lacked in range, however,
they compensated for in numbers.
Every man was carrying from five to
eight of these missiles, and in the situ-

ltecaemox

and WAR”

By S. L. A. Marshall

ation, our tr00ps either had to set up
an efiective grenade counter in a
hurry, or be blown out of Korea.

But if a man hasn’t been a strong
“thrower” during several years of his
life, he can’t be made into one just
because the army wills it. He might
acquire that knack in baseball, or as
a forward-passer in football, or even
from long play in basketball or with a
discus. But he has to get it from some-
where, or he will lack range, his arm
won’t stand up and he has no confi-
dence that he can hit the target.

So it was interesting to see how the
infantry of the Eighth Army met this
need empirically.

As soon as the issue permitted it,
all of the men began to carry grenades
—usually two, sometimes three; but in
any action where strong grenading was
needed, the work of the group came to
revolve around one man—the best arm
in the crowd, made so by experience,
either in baseball or football. He would
do the “bombing.” The others acted as
a bucket line, passing their grenades
to him, and cheering while he heaved.

A loaded grenade weighs between
sixteen and twenty-two ounces, depend-
ing upon the type. Any green hand can
lob it twenty yards or so and maybe
get within five yards of what he wants
to hit, if his arm isn’t shaking. But a
man accustomed to the ball field can
usually get it out thirty-five yards, and
practically peg it home.

Those few extra yards, which the
seasoned thrower has over the non-
athlete, could mean the difference be-
tween a dead center heave which
knocks the Chinese from the crest of a
hill position and a short throw which

SEPTEMBER 1952

rolls back upon one’s own people. And
the extra yardage is only one among
many advantages. When it’s almost sec-
ond nature to you to pick up something
and heave it, you’ll do it instinctively
with less counting of the risk.

Take the action of Cpl. Don Craw-
ford and Pfc. James C. Curcio, Jr.,
Baker Company, Ninth Infantry Regi-
ment. In the battle of the Chongchon
one year ago, they were with nine
other men of the mortar platoon who
became surrounded by two hundred
Chinese. The eleven men were on a
knoll not more than twenty feet across.

For two hours, the Chinese kept
grenading the knoll from a distance of
thirty feet. In that time, sixty grenades
fell within the group. Crawford and
Curcio, both of them ballplayers, ap-
pointed themselves a committee of two
to keep the position cleared. During
the two hours, they caught or fielded
approximately forty of the “hot” gren-
ades and pitched them back into the

are each a part of it.

Hitting the Dirt

There is one thing else—in baseball
and football, particularly, a man must
learn how to hit the dirt, and he spends
many of his most worthwhile moments
in hard contact with the unyielding
face of Mother Earth. There is some-
thing very fundamental about this. All
of us walk the earth, but few of us
Iearn to grovel in it, hit it and slide
into it, without finding the eXperience
unpleasant.

A frontline fighter has to do all of
these things. Earth is his final protec-
tor. When he bounds forward to a new
position under fire, his life rests on his
ability to keep Iow, like a halfback
hitting a line, and to close the last few
yards with a headlong slide.

Knowing how to fall, how to roll and
how to hug earth is as essential to a
fighter as knowing how to run when
it’s suicide to walk. He will not get a
final conviction of these things on the

 

S. L. A. NIARSHALL, military critic of The Detroit News, was recently
described by the Combat Forces Journal of the United States Army as “the
greatest living reporter of combat." He has a broader experience with a greater
variety of battle situations than any contemporary, and holds the rank of
brigadier-general. He is a former sports writer, editor and polo expert.

Chinese lines. That’s the kind of stuff
I’m talking about; you can’t beat it.

Everything Done on Field of
Sport Conditions a Soldier

Your average team player possibly
never devotes a moment to thinking of
the special values which come of play-
ing the game, and wherein these values
facilitate his adjustment when he en-
ters a life-and-death contest. But nearly
everything he has done on the sport
field has conditioned him in one way
or another to meet the final test a little
more easily than the man who never
got heyond the sidelines.

I have seen hundreds of American
youngsters so badly smcared during
combat that they had good reason to
quit the fight, but didn’t even know
the meaning of the word. The great
majority of these diehards got that
way in sports. Too, there is an ele-
mentary know-how which comes of
passing a ball around, swinging a bat
or wielding a mallet. Muscular coor-
dination, strengthening of the hands,
quickness of eye and conquest of fear

playing field, because combat is a
trifle more urgent. But there is no bet-
ter preparatory school than the way
of the team player who starts on the
sandlots and stays with the game
through early nlanhood.

Our Legs Need Work

On the whole, however, we have not
done very well by ourselves. The ma-
jority of American young men are not
physically fit. Our main weakness is in
the legs, because as a nation we have
almost forgotten how to use them.

Our colleges, schools generally, and
the rest of our institutions, have held
all too lightly what organized sport
can do for a pe0ple and 110w mass
physical fitness relates to national sur-
vival. In team play, a man Iearns
to play the game for its own sake, and
not for personal vainglory. Finally, it
is this same spirit which holds together
an infantry company in the face of the
enemy. Real contending power comes
of each man’s love for his comrades,
and not of his hate for the other side.

"' Condensed from series in The Detroit News,

January, 1952.
193

no playground is complete without a

Reg. U. 5. Pat. Ol'l.

climbing structure

Safety, no maintenance, biggest play capacity per
square foot of ground area and per dollar of
cost—these are iust a few of the reasons why
JUNGLEGYM is admittedly the world's most famous
playground device. Thousands are in daily use
from coast to coast. Why not give the children of
your playground the advantages of a JUNGLEGYM
. now?

Write for Illustrated Bulletin On Porter's

I952 Streamlined Line That Will Save
You Money . . . Time.

PORTER oan sopply you with those fundamental playground units, too!

 

 

No. 240 Merry-Go-Round

Wiil solely occonsmodote 30 children at
one time. Nelseiess. ne-webbie. no-
swey operation. An enelneering mor-
vel, and precision-mode. Guorenteed.

 

No. 136 Stratosphere See-Sow

Sensotionoiiy new. Gives "ups-odoisy"
rlde Not/3% tslgher Itson conventional
see-sow, yet soter becouse of hoop
handles, soddle seats and level-seat
feoture.

   

No. Sl-F Playground

 

Basketball Ioclrstop No. 3! Combination Set
All-Steel ton-shoved bent: Oliers slsr diflerent linds ol lunlui. No' ‘09 Slx'swlng 5"
rleldly meunted en creel healthlul playeround octivlty. A com- Iuilt for sole. permonent servlce. Sturdy
most and brocer‘ [or permo- poet. economlcol unit thot's Ideol tor IO-ft. frome held rigidly together by
nentservlce. tin rhedte-llts- Itmtted around oreos. lquedly con- Tested Moileobie tron tittino ol esctu-

stand the weottls'. Ottlclol. stunted" slve Vorter "boil-through" design. “ I

THE J. E. CORPORAHON
OYIAWA tumors

"snatartuatsi m Its'iuuosm aiuuswrm My winith can to; any...-

 

M* CLIMBING

Exclusive MAKERS or THE WORLD-FAMOUS JUNGLEGY “RUCWRE

lee. U. 5. Pet. 0!.

19s RECREATION

  
 

SargaBarimra
Yhohcouocil  -
Teen-RecRevuy

“rd ‘
Ht
P

 

.l
r

.‘|
5/3

     
   

Revue members take off for a two-day trip
during which they played to 3000 persons.

What things do teen-age boys and girls want to do?
How can thcy be helped to fulfill their desires?

Teen-age leadership is Santa Barbara’s answer to how
to develop the richest recreation program for this age
group.

In ofhcial capacities, coordinated with the city recrea-
tion commission, a youth council plans and administers
projects and parties for the young pcople. The Santa Bar-
bara Recreation Department Youth Council, madc up of
nine members, is clected for one year by popular vote
from teen-agers still in high school. Both public high and
parochial schools are represented. Those wishing to be
nominated on thc election ballot must first secure the
names of fifty othcr teen-agers in thc community who are
membership card holders in the recrcation department.

Duties of a youth council oflicer include a weekly Incet-
ing to plan and organize activities desired and approved
by both the youth and adult supcrvisors, and to consider
the conduct, of tecn-agers at youth council sponsored ac-
tivities and take any necessary action deemed advisable.
These meetings always take into consideration thc pro—
grams of other youth groups, local junior and senior high
schools, churches, and other youth serving agencies. A
social calendar of all local events assists the council in
planning mass youth activities. Included in the meeting
each week is discussion on the management of the youth
lounge and fountain, which is operath by members of the
council assisted by the two adult advisors of the city rec-
reation department.

Membership in the “Rec” is Open to any teen-ager with-
out cost. However, in order to qualify for a card, the ap-
plicant must read and discuss with the adult advisors
what is expected of him or her. A registration book and
membership card are then signed in thc presence of the

 

MR. MACDONALD is youth council advisor in Santa Bar-
bara, and manager of the city’s annual battle of teen bands.
See page 4-01 of the December 1951 issue of RECREATION.

SEPTEMBER 1952

How one California city put vitality
into its program for young people. . .

R. J. MacDonald

 

Youth Council girls seem to enjoy planning annual. Tri Counties
Tecn Conference to be held at Santa Barbara recreation center.

advisor, giving name, addrcss, phone number and age. The
only regulation covering all activities is adherence to the
basic principles of democracy.

Projects range from fun to finance, and include service
activities. Over a period of three years the youth council
has honored, at monthly dinners, outstanding citizens or
organizations who have contributed to the welfare of youth
or of the community. The guests listen to the meeting
conducted by the young peOple, and then are invited to
speak. It has promoted good public relations. Each new
council, also, entertains members’ parents at dinner, which
has helped to create greater understanding. ‘

Dances are held weekly or twice weekly. During the
football season the weekly after-game dances bring a peak
attendance approaching six hundred, which fills the audi-
torium. By maintaining a “tight door,” well-defined stand-
ards of behavior and adequate supervision, the dances are

195

 

Parties are among projects planned and administered by Youth
Council members. Above, preparations for Friday-thc-ltith dance.

considered an asset by the schools, police and parents,
and are thoroughly enjoyed by the young people. The dis-
trict P. T. A., through its recreation chairman, provides
couples who give splendid assistance in supervision. On
the infrequent occasions when a youth is out of line, his
“Rec” membership card is taken up, and the youth coun-
cil deprives him of privileges for a period of time.

The Rec Revue is produced annually, and has been “on
the road” to other towns in the country and to nearby
Camp Cooke. The entire cast of thirty odd has attended
the Southern California Teen Conference, and parts of the
show have been played for service clubs, news boys’ din-
ncrs, and so on.

A mainstay of the revue is the fifteen-piece band, the
Music Makers, which plays for the dances, too. It is rated
“tops” by tcen-agers wherever heard. The band broad-

casts over local radio stations, and announcements of com-
ing events are made on these programs. By special agree-
ment with the musicians’ union, the Music Makers are
allowed to play in the center auditorium, which is a union
hall, and to fill other requests from schools.

Sports events and tournaments are sponsored as part of
the gymnasium program. And recently. an annual “Mr.
Santa Barbara" contest, as part of an A. A. U. program,
has been held, featuring weight lifting and body building.
0n the distafi side, a “Miss Typical Teen-Age" competi-
tion is held. Last summer, tcn girls were screened from
a number of Southern California tccn centers. They mod-
eled clothes furnished by a local firm, and were judged on
poise, personality, voice and modeling ability.

The tcen-agcrs also assume more serious responsibili-
ties. The youth eouncil maintains its own bank account,
though checks require two signatures, those of the youth
council treasurer and of the adult supervisor. Besides a
weekly financial report to the council, a report is made
each month to the recreation commission.

The main sources of revenue arc the dances and the
less frequent shows. Twenty-five cents is the top price
charged. From this income, the youth lounge is kept up
and contributions made to service projects. The lounge
has a soda fountain, television set, juke box and maga-
zines, and the budget covers upkeep, such as repainting,
new furniture, and so on. Youth council members run
the fountain in the afternoons after school, and college
boys are paid to run it in the evenings.

Service projects have included five hundred dollars in
scholarships, given to the local branch of the University
of California and earmarked for graduates of local schools,
and one hundred dollars given to the city for remodeling
the auditorium stage. “Can-can” dances are given each
Christmas, with cans of food used as admission, to be
distributed by the Christmas Cheer Committee. Proceeds
of other dances are given to charitable causes from time
to time during national fund-raising campaigns.

Regardless of the importance of the event or the project,
it is planned and carried out for the youth by the youth,
and everyone benefits from the program.

SW of pmc'dextdasss

in a presidential year it is interesting to look through the eyes of Grantland
Rice, well known sports writer, at the sports enjoyed by past presidents:

George Washington horse racing, hunting and

marksmanship

Andrew Jackson horse racing, marksmanship,

hunting, duelling. horsemanship
Abraham Lincoln wrestling, rail splitting

Teddy Roosevelt
196

Woodrow Wilson football, golf

William ll. Taft .. golf
Warren Harding golf
Herbert Hoover fishing
Franklin Roosevelt yachting

boxing, wild game hunting, tennis, exploring
RECREATION

“Many recreational activities are educational, and vice versa.”

Educational and Cultural Activities

F loydelh Anderson

T IS MOST gratifying to note the efforts of workers
[in community centers to offer a program that
transcends purely physical and social activities.
These efforts probably can be attributed to several
reasons:

(1) Entrance, into the field, of an increasing
number of highly qualified workers.

(2) The increasing unpopularity of the idea that
the community center fulfills its purpose when it
only furnishes shelter during their leisure hours to boys
and girls who might otherwise be roaming the streets.

(3) Recognition of the idea, as a fallacy, that participa-
tion in sports is a “cure-all” for social maladjustment.

(4) Recognition of the possibilities of the community
center when working in cooperation with the school, the
church and other community organizations.

The worker who is fortunate enough to be able to travel
can observe at firsthand the many fine things being done
with the educational and cultural program of the com-
munity center. The average worker, however, must feel
his way through the dark, because those persons success-
fully conducting such programs seldom take the time to
write about their work. This fact impressed me in a force-
ful manner when, in 1947, I was brought to the Crispus
Attucks Center of York, Pennsylvania, to build and direct
a program of educational and cultural activities. Being
freshly out of the university, I was confident that the li-
braries of the area would offer interesting suggestions.
True, I found some helpful information, but most of it
concerned music and dramatics. Since those early days, I
think that I have discovered more avenues to an expanded
program, and in sharing them with readers, I am hopeful
of inspiring other leaders in the field to write about their

FLOYDELH ANDERSON, who was the director of education,

Crispus Attucks Association, York, Pennsylvania, is now
executive director of Nepperham Center, Yonkers, N. Y.

SEPTEMBER 1952

in Community Centers

 

The Script Club planning a monthly issue of the C. A. Herald. A home
newspaper can be one of the most effective tools in building a program.

work. In such a manner can we build a helpful library.

During the early months at Crispus Attucks, I worked
with the idea of bringing prominent speakers to the com-
munity, of sponsoring such clubs as the Carter C. Wood-
son Historical Society and of staging a light opera. It was

. soon evident, however, that a good speaker was expensive,

and the historical society folded after two or three poorly
attended meetings. The mere name was enough to scare
away the people. As for light opera, there was not enough
talent to carry through. At this point it was all too clear
that I had to rethink my program. The problems of the
community had to be considered, and a program planned
that would serve to make conditions better. As the teen-
agers frequented the center in greater numbers' than other
groups, it seemed best to build my program around them.

The common meeting ground for these teen-agers and
myself was music. We gathered a large group, some with
fair voices—~others with none at all. Our first reherasals
were not strenuous. We sang for the love of singing and
to become acquainted. At these meetings, it was possible
to get some idea of the abilities of individual participants.
The nucleus of a club dedicated to a program of educa-
tional and cultural activities was formed.

Our first problem was to find a suitable name for the
group. We felt that this should be informal and bear no
resemblance to the type of program We wanted to put
over. The final choice was “Pre-Frats.” Instead of the
traditional ofiieers—president, vice-president, and so on—

197

we chose the glorifying titles of supreme commissioner,
associate commissioner, commissioner of records and the
commissioner of finance. Persons desiring to become mem-
bers of the club were required to undergo a period of pro-
hation and initiation. When the news got around about
the mysterious new club for teen-agers, we were swamped
with applications for membership.

We next were faced with the problem of providing a
program that would be enjoyable, educational, and that
would serve some useful purpose in the community. The
first project along this line was the sponsoring of educa-
tional movies, open to all members of the center. These
dealt with the everyday problems faced by boys and girls
in our society. Later came group discussions, the topics
centered around community problems, pr0per boy and girl
relationships, dating and family problems. In these, we
were careful not to invite so-called “authorities” of the
community, for we found that with such persons in the
room, the boys and girls were not free in expressing their
own opinions. These free discussions demonstrated that
boys and girls, on their own, can frequently reach the same
conclusions as those reached by experts. All discussions
were limited to thirty minutes. Too much stress cannot
be placed on making each meeting short and to the point.

Another interesting project for the educational program
of a community recreation center is a boys’ and girls’
debate. Each year at CriSpus Attucks a timely subject is
chosen for this purpose, and the club sponsor holds audi-
tions for participants. Two boys are selected to compete

NOW IT'S EASY TO MAKE
"RAFFIA CORD" COVERED OBJECTS .

fa

Colorful professional looking oblects exactly like those on

 

sale in Gift Shops and Department Stores can be mode at 0

fraction of the cost to buy them.

All you need is the Coneiston "Rama Cord“, our patented
starting disk, special formula materials, and cosy ta fallaw
instructions.

Materials available:

50 1rd. Raf-a (red, yellow, green, white)

i0 yd. Two-toned braiding (green 8. white; also red 8- yellow)
STiK-TliE (’2 at. Special farmuia adhesive)

STAJIITE (i at. Special iarmuia lacquer)

Patented Starting Disk

nop'r R9 cormsrAN cons.
225 Fifth Ave.. New York 10, NJ.

 

against two girls. Judges are selected from the ranks of
the professional men and women of the city.

As for draniatics, we have organized a gronp known
as the Ki-Yi Cluh which operates on the same principle as
the l’rc-Frats. Its main objective is to encourage talent in
the community. This does not mean dramatic talent alone.
The club is interested in all types of talents that contribute
to widening the interests of the patrons of the center. The
club itself creates committees to sponsor an art show, a
play, an oratorical contest, a talent show. A healthy spirit
of competition exists between the I’re-Frats and Ki-Yis.

Most of the work in guidance and citizenship here has
been done through our house newspaper, The C. A. Her-
ald, published monthly by the Script Cluh. The Herald is
a niimeographed publication running from four to eight
pages in length. All members of the center are invited
to contribute articles, cartoons, jokes and other news
items. The monthly editorials are written by the cluh
sponsor, who tries to give useful information in a down-
to-carth manner, covering subjects that range from per-
sonal health to job finding and joh holding. A house news-
paper can be a most effective tool in building a program.

l have been told that a community center takes in too
much territory when it attempts to give vocational and
educational guidance; further, that it is the place of the
school to give guidance to the school youth, and of agen-
cies of the federal government to guide out-of-town youth.
Even so, our schools are so crowded that at hest the coun-
selor can do only a very impersonal type of guidance.
For example, one school of two thousand students has only
one counselor. By comparison, the community center is
small, and it thus gives the staff worker the Opportunity to
become intimately acquainted with each client and his
family. The ideal set-up, then, is a coOperativc program
of guidance between the school and the community cen-
ter. The school can furnish information concerning the
interests and aptitudcs of the students, while the com-
munity ccnter can do a good job of encouragement, of
pointing out avenues to usefnl life experiences, and of
giving pointers as to how one should go about finding
a job, choosing a collcgc or becoming adjustcd to some
problem in the home. In advocating that the community
center should do some guidance work, however, it is
assumed that the center possesses qualified leadership.

The club sponsor, who should be a paid staff worker,
can be the chief reason for success or failure of an educa-
tional and cultural program. lf he would have a succcssful
program, he cannot afford to be lazy. llc must be willing to
put in extra hours of planning. lie must have confidence in
his abilities and must be able to transfer this confidence to
the members of his groups. llc should read widcly and be
ei er on the alert for new ideas. He should be a constant
source of encouragement to the boys and girls under his
supervision. He should not be misled by the dream that
boys and girls will accept full responsibility for the pro-
gram of a club. lioys and girls Will work. help with the
planning, but it is up to the staff worker in direct their
work into channels that will provc most lwncfieial to them
and to the program.

itacmmnox‘

SEPTEMBER 29 — ocroatn 3, 1952,

SEATTLE, wnsmucrou

 

Evening Speakers

° The Congress will be opened officially on Monday night when Joseph
Prendergast, Executive Director of the National Recreation Association
and Chairman of the Congress, welcomes all delegates in the name of the
association and turns over the meeting to its chairman, Otto T. Mallery,
Chairman of the Board of Directors of the NRA. Greetings will be extend-
ed by the Honorable Arthur B. Langlie, Governor of Washington. Gov-
ernor Langlie’s interest in recrcation is already widely known. Lieutenant
General Robert W. Harper, Commanding General, Air Training Com-
mand, United States Air Force, and George Hjelte, General Manager of
Recreation and Parks in Los Angeles and Chairman of the National Ad-
visory Committee on Defense Related Services of the National Recreation
Association, will address the Congress on the important defense aspects of
recreation in this critical year.

Tuesday evening will feature messages from Henrietta A. R. Anderson,
of Victoria, British Columbia, and Paul Douglass. Mrs. Anderson is one
of the most popular and charming public speakers in the northwest area,
and she will have as her topic, “Recreation and the Good Life.” Dr. Doug-
lass, well known for the parts he played in the Cleveland and Boston
congresses, will apply his famed wit and inspiration to the challenges
which confront our movement to recruit, train and place the leaders who
are so essential to our continued growth and development.

Wednesday night’s speaker will be the Right Reverend Stephen F. Bayne,
Jr., Bishop of Olympia, one of the outstanding clergymen, not only of
the Protestant Episcopal Church, but of the whole country. T. E. Rivers,
Assistant ExeCutive Director of the National Recreation Association, will
conclude, just before the Congress, a trip around the world. He will re-
port to the Congress on recreation devclOpnlents as he observed them in
Portugal, Spain, Italy, Greece, Egypt, Lebanon, Pakistan, India, Thailand,
the Philippincs and Japan, with special attention to the National Recrea-
tion Congress of Japan.

In addition to those general evening sessions, there will also be general
sessions on Thursday and Friday mornings. Thursday morning’s session
will feature Joseph Prendergast, who will present a “state of the nation”
talk in terms of recreation services. Plans for the closing session of the
Congress on Friday morning are not final enough to announce at the
time this articlc is being prepared, but it is safe to say that the closing
session will match the high levcl of information and inspiration which
characterizes the other general sessions of thc Congrcss.

SEPTEMBER 1952

 
  
    

The Right
Reverend Stephen

F. Bayne, Jr.

    
       
  

Governor
Arthur B. Langlic

George Hjelte

Lieutenant General
Robert \V. Harper

:3.
" 3!

Paul Douglass

Joseph Prendergast

199

SEPTEMBER 29 - OCTOBER 3, I952

SEATTlE, WASHINGTON

200

 
   

AT YOUR SERVICE

THE anrmrons of the commercial products nec-
cssary to a successful recreation program are
an important part of every congress; and the privi-
lege of examining their materials at firsthand has
always been greatly appreciated by dclcgatcs. Each
year the exhibitors’ cooperation has been most help-
ful; and they again stand ready, in 1952, to help
recreation leaders with suggestions as to what can
best fill individual needs. Don’t fail to allow time
in your schedule for browsing among the gay and
colorful displays of brand-new, right-ofl-tbc-griddlc
equipment and ideas. Your old friends among the
company representatives will be looking forward
to greeting you, and the newcomers to meeting you.
The exhibits will be set up in the spacious Spanish
Lounge of the Olympic llatcl, and will be Opened
officially at 9:30 on Monday morning. Representa-
tives of the exhibiting organizations will be in the
booths daily throughout the Congress. As was done
last year, the Oflicial Program of the Congress will
include the names of the representatives of each or-
ganization; and Upon registering, delegates will re-
eeive a pamphlet describing each exhibit.

Seattle, King County and the state of Washing-
ton are working on a display depicting some of
the reasons people like to live in the Pacific North-
west. The Local lnformation Booth will be in the
exhibit area and it will be stailcd at all reasonable
hours to provide answers to the many questions
which delegates are sure to have about Seattle and
vicinity. The American Recreation Society will
have its customary booth again this year for the
convenience of old and new mcmbcrs.

As we go to press, those companies who have
signed up to be with us this year are:

 

o Dudley Sports Company,
New York City

0 Game-Time, incorporated,
Litchfield, Michigan

0 Frost-Woven Wire,
Washington, D. C.

o MocGregar Goldsmith, incarparated,
Cincinnati 32, Ohio

0 Tokoport Products Company,
Freepart, New York

0 Miracle Whirl Sales Company,
Grinnel, iowo

o Rec-O-Kut Compony,
Long Island City 'I, New York

0 Wilson Sporting Goods Campony,
Chicoga, illinais

o Jomisan Manufacturing Company,
Las Angeles 3, California

0 Square Dance Associates,
Freepart, New York

0 American Bitumuls and Asphalt Campany,

Seattle, Washington

0 American Playground Device Campony

Andersan, indiano

0 Coco Calo Company,
New York City

0 J. E. Burke Company,
Fond du Lac, Wisconsin

I General Electric Company
Schenectady, New York

0 Cleveland Crofts,
Cleveland 15, Ohio

I National Bawling Council,
Washington, D. C.

I U. S. Rubber,
New York City

0 W. J. Vait Rubber Corporation,
Los Angeles 11, California

0 Rawlings Manufacturing Company,
St. Louis, Missouri

0 Pennsylvania Rubber Company,
Akron 9, Ohio

0 Berlin Chopmon Campony,
Berlin, Wisconsin

0 W. R. Maady Gold Stamping,
Burbank, California

0 Southern Chemicals, incarparoted,
Las Angeles, California

I Hillerich and Bradsby Company, Inc.,

Louisville 2, Kentucky

0 The Rex Carparotian,
Cambridge 37, Massachusetts

0 Donald F. Duncon, incorporated (Ya-Ya),

Chicago 22, Illinois

Recasxrrox

I”

CHNGRESS ARRANGEMENTS

{ 11F. SEATTLE Local Arrangements Committee has many
ll surprises in store for delegates. This statement should
not come as news to recreation leaders who already know
the reputation of Seattle and of Seattle recreation officials
for entertaining visitors. Without question, the serious
work of the Congress will be interspersed liberally with
opportunities for delegates to indulge their flair for recre-
ation.

The only mystery about Congress Wednesday is the
exact line of march through Seattle and King County.
There is no secret about the fact that there is going to be a
tour, a tour which promises so much of interest that the
Recreation Congress Committee broke with tradition to
devote a full day to it—and then disappointed the local
committee which had made plans for still more hours.

But other special features—including at least one im-
ported from California—must not be divulged until they
happen.

geéc'owt tée Seem

0 When Tom liivcrs, Secretary of the Congress, first went to Seattle
to see about this year’s big meeting, he told his hosts that the Con-
gress would not come to their city unless he caught a salmon. There-
fore, on one memorable morning, he was escorted to Puget Sound
pink flush of the rising sun.
For result, see below. Left to right: Tom Rivers, Tom Lantz, Tacoma
recreation executive, and Bill Shumard, NRA district representative,
who proudly displays the deciding factor in the final Congress ar-

long before it was touched by the first

rangements.

‘ _

SEPTEMBER 1952

 

To refer again to broken tradition, still another long-
established Congress institution has undergone a change
for this year—partly because of the importance of a thor-
ough tour of the Seattle and King County areas .and fa-
cilities on Wednesday. There will be no general summary
sessions at this year’s congress. Summary sessions have
constituted a kind of trade mark for congresses for many
years, and they have proved a valuable part of each—but
not this year. Reactions will be followed with interest.

Since it is impossible for any delegates to attend all the
Congress discussion meetings, there will be an attempt to
provide everyone with brief reports of all meetings, rc-
ports which will be more fully published in the official pro-
ceedings. Summarizers will, therefore, have to write their
summaries this year, instead of giving them orally as pre-
viously. And editors and mimeographers will be busy be-
hind the scenes putting together the material for distribu-
tion before the close of the Congress on Friday.

 

. Above: This spring, at the Pacific Northwest
NRA District Conference, Bill (left) and Char-

lie Reed, manager of the NRA Field Depart-
ment (right), got their heads together over the
coming event in Seattle. Their expressions
would indicate a favorable prognosis for the
September meeting—fish or no fish. Perhaps,
however, some of you are going early to try
your own hand in the salmon country. We hope,
in any case, you have read the article, “Take
the Trail to Washington State,” by Ruth Peeler,
in Summer Vacations—USA.”

" Published by National Recreation Association. Avail-
able at local bookstores. $1.00.

201

-.

 

The IBM country club, Endicott, New York, is governed and operated by the company's employees, for themselves and their families.

0" I
J . .
‘ A
Bowling alleys are probably most popular of sports facilities.
Thirty-five leagues are enro led in American Bowling Congress.

 

 

t hildren" f luh mtmher assembled on poreh of their lot: mhm
Jul'Ih-m' ' Pla" ’tln‘itie'. arr supen‘ised by trained director.

3U).

\Vnex AN EMPLOYEE of luternational Business Ma-
chines states, "I helong to the largest country eluh
in the world," he is referring to the lBM Iouutry Cluh
at Eudieott, New York. a sports and social organization
governed and Operated hy employ ecs and offering to them.
their families and children, twenty-seven forms of indoor
and outdoor recreation and the opportunity for numerous
social and cultural activities. Also. at l’oughkccpsie, New
York, and Toronto, Canada. similar facilities are enjoyed
by employees, and IBM eluhs are found in hraneh offices
throughout the world.

From the many guests who visit the IBM Country Clnh,
one hears the question frequently asked, “Why does the
company give all this to employees?" Officials answer that
"3.“ does not “give” anything to its employees. Through
the investment of capital, the corporation makes facilities
and tools available to the employee at work: a similar in-
vestment of capital in recreational facilities opens to the
employee at play the means to live a fuller life.

These two phases of employee interests are elosely re-
lated. A worker does not eheck his personality at the door
of the plant. It goes with him into the shop. The quantity
and quality of his productive work are dependent upon
his attitudes and personality traits fully as much as upon
his skills. These are developed outside his working hours
more. than while he is at work. At work. he seldom has
eomplete freedom of aetion in regard to his interests; dur-
mg his leisure time, he exereises more freedom of ehoiee
in these matters. The recreational life of the Ameriean
worker and his working experieuee are interdependent.

lluwever, the visitor may inquire, “Then you have the
recreation program in order to get better production."
\gain, this esplanation is too simple. The modern eor-
poratinn has a stake in the welfare of thc eonununity. The
health of the croiumnnity afleets the health of the industries
in it. The quality of produetion is conditioned hy the
quality of vivie life. and the quality of eivit‘ life is con-
ditic-m-d h) the satisfaction of workers in their produetive
work. The harmonious relation of prodUetive work cut-

Rscamnos

\Vherein the recreation facilities and program
are governed and operated by employees.

A Country Club With Your Job

perience and the recreational experience is as important
in an industrial family as in the individual family. Peeple
who can play together can work together.

The club at Endicott is operated by a board of governors
elected from the plant by employees. Managers, supervisors
and executives cannot be on the board. One member of
the board is elected from each of the twenty-four zones in
the plant. These representatives elect a president, vice-
president, secretary and treasurer. Each of the remaining
members accepts responsibility as chairman of one or more
of the various club activities. The officers of each previous
year act as an advisory committee to the new board.

The list of activities includes bowling, pool, billiards,
baseball and softball, tennis, horseshoes, quoits, swimming,
archery, skeet and trapshooting, field trials, outdoor and
indoor rifle and pistol practice, golf, ping-pong, basket-
ball, gymnastics, badminton, and so on. Participants of
all ages—from children to grandparents—take advantage
of the wide variety of activities available. Folk and ball-
room dances are held each month. A supervised indoor
nursery and a playground are provided for small children
while parents enjoy the other facilities.

Annual membership dues for employees, and for wives
as associate members, are one dollar. The fee for junior
members is fifty cents, and for the Children’s Club twenty-
five cents.

The policy of bringing children into partnership sug-
gested a junior board of governors, which was set up in
1950. This affords the young people an Opportunity to con-
duct their own program, and helps them to promote leader-
crship and build morale.

The election of the junior board is held once a year
under the supervision of each senior activity chairman,
who calls a meeting of the junior members of his or her
activity and has them elect a chairman to represent that
activity on the junior board of governors. These repre-
sentativcs elect their junior officers in the same manner as
the senior board.

The Children’s Club serves the four to seven year group.
Their clubhouse is a log cabin, in the midst of the 725-aere

SEPTEMBER 1952

scenic tract. A trained director supervises their activities,
which include handerafts, gardening, story periods, group
games, nature study and outdoor sports. The mothers have
organized a mothers’ auxiliary to the Children’s Club to
help with the program. Mothers help with the junior choir
and orchestra. The drama and dancing groups are assisted
in matters of costumes and rehearsals.

Activities of special interest to children, such as swim-
ming and movies, are scheduled at hours during the day
when children would be likely to visit less desirable places
in the community. {The pool room has little success com-
peting for a youth’s time when a trip to the club is in the
oiling. Round and square dancing every other week pro-
vide pleasant outlets for social development.

There is nothing stereotyped in the program. The initia-
tive for every phase of club activity stems from the em-
ployees themselves. The many activities have resulted from
the almost unlimited number of interests in which indi-
viduals desire expression.

Most popular are those activities in which all members
of the family—young and old-may participate. Special
times during the week are set aside for mixed bowling and
golf, so that the family may play together free of the com-
petitive atmosphere of league participation. The emergence
of junior chapters of the National Riflemcn’s Association
and of the Junior Hunter’s Club encourages fathers to
teach their children how to handle firearms.

Located in the basement of the clubhouse, the rifle range
is one of the finest in the eastern states. The room is so well
sound-proofed that a rifle shot sounds like a popgun. A
skilled instructor is available. Junior members have their
own marksmanship classes, where attention is given to
teaching them safe handling of firearms. The range is
twenty-five yards long and has eleven turning targets. Ae-
commodations are provided for one hundred spectators,
and a separate room is used for storing and reloading
ammunition. The average weekly attendance includes twen-
ty rifle members, thirty pistol members, and sixty junior
rifle members. One junior member, a fourteen-year-old
girl, scored a perfect 300 on the rifle range.

203

 

Dramatic Club group in rehearsal. Clnb olfers voice and speech
training, opportunity to try all phases of dramatic presentation.

At the Endicott Club the bowling alleys are probably
the most popular sports facilities, with an average yearly
figure of 167,000 games bowled. There are thirty-live
leagues registered with the American Bowling Congress.
Fees are fifteen cents a game for members.

Stretched across the rolling hills are two golf courses,
an eighteen-hole championship course and a nine-hole
course. Two pros furnish free instruction to members.
Greens fees are thirty-five cents a day, all clubs and halls
are furnished by the members. A complete line of golf
equipment is available for purchase at a discount or rental.
More than thirty thousand games are played each year, and
about two thousand individual golf lessons are given in a
period of a year. To date, there have been twenty holes-in-
one. ln wintertime, inside golf practice is possible through
the use of driving nets. One member won the New York
State championship match in 1951.

The swimming pool is always attended by competent in-
structors. Underwater lighting gives a beautiful effect at
night. Nearby is a wading pool for children.

The country club recreation room includes two billiard,
six pool and two ping-pong tables, and facilities for
shullleboard.

Attended by a college graduate in child study, the nurs-
ery in the licld house is available t0»small children of par-
ents who wish to spend their day enjoying the activities of
the club. An average of 3,500 children are registered here
each year. The children’s playground oliers outdoor reere-
atiou for youngsters during the good weather months. As
in the nursery, there is an attendant in charge at all times.

Watson Athletic Field consists of one baseball and two
softball diamonds, four tennis courts, four quoits and four
horseshoe courts. Leagues are formed from among the
members for intra-eompany or outside competition. The
club has placed a girl tennis champion in the llroome
County matches.

An average of one hundred fifty participate in archery
each Week. One indoor and six outdoor targets provide
year-round facilities for the sport.

The liod and Gun Club consists of two skeet fields, one
trap field. a log cabin. an outdoor rifle and pistol range,
and a kennel for use during field trials. A competent in-

20f

structor is provided. The only cost is the price of am-
munition. Six times a year some of the best hunting dogs
in the region are placed in open competition, and twiee a
year beagle trials are held.

A conservation program feeds and stocks wild game on
the club property. Rabbits and pheasants are set out and
fox hunts are held regularly to protect the game.

Other areas of specialized interests for which groups or
clubs have been organized include a children’s theater
and drama grOUp, which alTords an opportunity to receive
training in voice and speech for the stage, personality de-
velopment, and to participate in every phase of dramatic
presentation; a chess club which meets weekly and has an
average attendance of fifty: a photo forum, through which
amateurs meet and discuss photographic techniques, hear
lectures by leading professionals, and compete with each
other and with other photographic groups; a rod and reel
cluh, which features skish instructions and exhibitions
given by skish experts; and variety players, who present
each year an outstanding production for the purpose of
raising funds for orphans and handicapped children.

A library, located on the second floor of the cluhhouse.
oliers pleasant reading accommodations and a supply of
reference books, current fiction and non-fiction, and peri-
odicals.

Twice a year, in the spring and in the fall, a Watson
Trophy Dinner is given at the club. Winners in sports com-
petition for the past season receive approximately four
hundred trophies, presented by Thomas J. Watson, IBM
president.

A new field has been built recently at Endicott, provid-
ing a gymnasium, nursery and auditorium space. Similar
facilities have bcen added at the Pougbkcepsie club; and
at the dedication, Mr. J. C. Phillips, vice-chairman of the
board of directors, said: “The habits of clean sport and
c00peration which the IBM Country Club builds in its
young people pay off in good citizenship and world friend-
ship for decades to come. The benefits of wholesome play
and family recreation which this club brings to our com-
pauy and community go far to make IBM a superior place
in which to work, and l’oughkcepsie a fine place in which
to live.

“Although the building is the physical thing we dedi-
cate, the real dedication is to the invcsmlent in people—an
investment in health for all, well-spent leisure time, family
solidarity. cooperation in team play and ncighborlincss,
good fellowship and education of youth."

The IBM family is convinced that these facilities repre-
sent still greater opportunity for personal development.
Better human relations, alertness, physical cllicicucy, self
respect, responsibility. pride, and loyalty in the organiza-
tion are all qualities which people will develop within them-
selves as they respond to the opportunities represented in
this recreation program. Upon assuming the presidency in
l9l-l, Mr. Watson stated. “lf you want to build a business,
you must first build men."

The investment which has been made will return many
fold—to the company. to the community, but more inl-
portautly. to the licople themselves.

ltecnesnos

A Survey in Madison, Wisconsin

Leisure Time Interests

and Activities

HE USE OF LEISURE time by the people of Madison,
TWisconsin, was the subject of a survey conducted for
the Community Welfare Council by Professor Marvin Rife,
formerly of the University of Wisconsin. The report, issued
recently enough to still be of value, is entitled “A Survey
of Recreation in Metropolitan Madison, Wisconsin,” and
contains much valuable information as to the recreational
habits, interests and resources of the residents.

A major feature of the survey consisted of personal
interviews based upon a carefully prepared schedule, de-
signed to reveal the recreational resources of families and
[he leisure-time interests of individuals and families. The
data gathered in visits to 536 dwelling units in a master
sample of the population are summarized in the report.
Bccausc these data reveal conditions and interests which
are closely related to leisure-time planning by the com-
inunity, and because they are fairly representative of the
situation in other comparable cities, they merit study by
recreation authorities.

Here are a few of the facts disclosed. 0f the homes in-
terviewed:

Twenty-eight per cent have a recreation room or work-

shop.

Sixty-fivc per cent have yard play Space.

Almost one hundred per cent have at least one radio.

The average home has two radio sets.

Seventcen per cent have FM radio sets.

Forty-nine per cent have record players.

Twenty-six per cent have pianos.

Seventy-two per cent own automobiles.

Fifty-nine per ccnt use library facilities.

The figures naturally varied for different sections of the
city, and the following are a few of the conclusions bascd
upon them:

Dwelling units in the central part of the city (of lower
socio-economic status with many multiple dwelling units)
have fewer indoor facilities specifically dcsigned for recre-
ation than do the newer scctions.

There is a much more critical shortage of play space
under home ownership in the central area.

The ownership of two radio sets per family provides
some possibility for variation and discrimination in listen-
ing by more than one member of the family.

Record playing and listening as a potential resource for

SEPTEMBER 1952

family recreation is reasonably extensive, though the data
do not reveal the extent to which such records are 'so used.

Non-ownership of automobiles by many families in the
central area presents difficulties in getting out into the
more spacious park areas of the city.

Three out of five families indicate one or more members
use library facilities provided by the city, schools and uni-
versity. Many families use more than one of these facili-
ties.

Favorite Family Pastimes

Responses to the question, “What are the favorite pas-
timcs which are enjoyed by most of the members of your
family as a group?” indicate thc recreational interests of
the families. Space was left for indicating three most fa-
vorite outdoor pastimes. The activities, ranked in the order
of their frequency of choice, follow:

Percentage
Outdoor Pastimes Reporting
1. Picnicking  .. . ..  17.1
2. Touring—Sightseeing ................................ .. 15.3
3. Fishing ........................................................ .. 10.1
4. Swimming .................................................. .. 10.1
5. Watching sports .......................................... .. 9.6
6. Hiking ........................................................ .. 7.3
7. Gardening .................................................. ..

8. Hunting ...................................................... ..

9. Ice skating ........................ .. 
10. Golfing ................................  ................... ..

11. Outdoor hobbies ........................................ ..
12. Boating ........................................................ ..
13. Sledding—Tobogganing ............................ ..
14. Informal games ......................................... ..
15. Tennis .......................................................... ..
16. Photography .............................................. ..

HEPPPPPPW
wocwwqomo

Io.
«1

It is of interest that the first five outdoor pastimes cited
most frequently require the use of the family automobile,
normally, in order to reach the locale of the pastime. One
observation noted in the choices recorded in different sec-
tions of the city was that the highest percentage of pref-
erence was sometimes expressed for an activity—for ex-
ample, swimming or gardening—in the section where op-
portunities for engaging in it were most available. It is
significant that only the first eight activities were listed
by more than five per cent of the families interviewed.

A comparable inquiry as to favorite family indoor pas-
times revealed the following frequency of choice:

205

Percentage

Indoor Pastime Reporting
1. l’layin cards . 2-1.1
2. Radio istening 19.4
3. Reading . .. .. .. 13.9
4. Attending movies
.. Bowling . 
6. Informal games
1. Family entertaining
l. Hobbies
9. Dancing .............. .. 
[0. Watching sports   . 
ll. Record playing   
12. Arts and crafts .
[3. Attending concerts .. ..... ..
14. Group singing
[5. Attending plays
16. Playing musical instruments . 
17. Church activities

.—
.—

AA
v.1
.

o o o o o o o o o o o - o . o o o o

. o . . . o . . - o . o o

. o o - . g .-

oommwmbomauoaa

. . . . . . . o . . . . o o . - o o o o o .

- - u o o s o o o o o o o o o o o o

OOOOHNMMWuwm

Passive forms of recreation stand out in all areas, with
playing cards. radio listening, reading and attending
movies ranking in the first four places, in that ordcr. The
more active and creative types of family activities, such as
informal games, hobbies, arts oml crafts, gran}; singing,
rank much farther down the list. This is consistent with
other general studies made in other parts of the country.
pointing out the dependence of the family upon ready-
made forms of entertainment.

The implications of these results, for education for
family recreation within the home by publie and non-
public recreation agencies, are considerable. The objective
of attaining a balance between active and passive forms of
recreation for the family group is an ideal for which to
strive.

 

 

l’eople throughout the nation were saddened by the
death. on July II, 1952, of the widely known and beloved
Dorothy Enderis.

Miss Enderis, who retired from the Milwaukee Munici-
pal Recreation Department in 19-18, at the age of sixty-
eight, had been a kind but lirm guiding hand in the recrea-
tion program in her city for thirty-six years. She was
instrumental in gaining for Milwaukee the reputation of
“The City of Lighted Seboolhouses"——the city where the
doors of the schools were opened wide, after the academic
day was over, and people of all ages were invited to enter
and "live" their leisure hours. Through her vision, and
ceaseless efforts, the reereation facilities of Milwaukee ex-
panded from two experimental social centers to thirty-two
social centers, sixty-two organized playgrounds and a year-
round athletic program.

More important, however, than the buildings and activi-
ties she ellected, was the contribution of her philosophy of
leadership and belief in the worth of every human being.
One of her olten repeated statements to her recreation
personnel was, “A playleader who perfunctorily carries on
activities and guards his playground against physical mis-
hap has a job. He who adds skill and techniques to these
duties creates a profession. But, he who erowns his pro-
fession \vith consecration and devotion performs a Illissioll:
and the children. youths and adults who come to him for

206

Dorothy Enderis

“Leutsclig”

play and sport carry away deeper values and greater riches
than the mere memory of a happy day, and the community
which has intrusted to him the sacred leisure hours of its
citizenry shall call him blessed."l

She received innumerable honors aml “distinguished
service” citations during her long and memorable eareer.
Among those she prized most highly were her appointment
as a delegate to President Roosevelt's. White [louse Cou-
fereuce on Children in a Democracy, her honorary degrees
of Master of Arts conferred by Lawrence College and Doc-
tor of Recreation conferred by Carroll College.I the certifi-
eate for civic serviee from Marquette l'nivcrsity, the. dis-
tinguished service medal of the Cosmopolitan Club of
Milwaukee (awarded to the individual performing service
most benelicial to the community l, and the lirst Theodora
Youmau award for distinguished service in citizenship pre.
sented by the Wisconsin Federation of Women's Clubs.

Dorothy l'iuderis wrute,’ “There is a German word that
l have never been ablc to put into English. It is the word
leutselig. l.cut is the German word for people, and selig
is hon and, to me. the finest attribute with which you
could credit a recreation worker is to 'say that he is
lcntsclig, meaning that people are holy to him."

Above all. Dorothy linderis was lcutselig.

 

“‘llumm l'roblem- Faced in Recreation Centers. lllraumn.

December l9").

ltecaenmv

Veteran caller expresses hope for har-
mony and uniformity in square dancing.

“gQUARE DANCING is going to the
l dogs,” proclaimed Chuck Hruska,
veteran dance instructor from Ohio,
who is in constant demand as a square
dance caller. We were discussing tradi—
tional square dancing.

“I try to teach youngsters in the way
I was taught when l was a boy. I be-
lieve this is the only way to hand down
old-time dances and keep them intact
for posterity. We have no right to de-
stroy their historical value by altering
them until they become unrecogniz-
able.”

Then, he explained how he carefully
teaches the young people how to ap-
proach each other and take the posi-

 

MRS. LEGER, formerly an instructor in
journalism and physical education, has
conducted her own dancing studios in
California. She is a graduate of the

Louis Chalif School of the Dance.

 

Let’s Check Up on Square Dancing

tions for the swing and other figures,
in a graceful, courteous manner.

“But do they do as I say?” he asked,
in a slightly warmer tone. “Oh, no—
they haven’t time. The boys make a
grab and lunge at their partners, then
whirl them around, as in an Apache
dance. The girls are lifted off the floor.
Their feet fly in the air. It just takes
one show-off he-man to ruin a set.”

Perhaps the youngsters are not to
blame. It may be the system of teach-
ing square dancing to beginners that
is at fault. When teachers themselves
are not informed as to the origin and
history of the dances they attempt to
teach, we cannot expect the pupils to
have any respect for the ancient forms
which have come down to us in the
square dance. A historic dance is not
a toy or bauhle to be destroyed at will.
It is Americana—something which we
should treasure and protect.

All ages dance at the Vermont Country Dance Festival. Note these expressive faces.

SEPTEMBER 1952

Persis Leger

Any teacher’s greatest responsibility
is to teach the truth. It is an educa-
tional sin to teach an error, and to
force a pupil to learn something which
he must later unlearn. Yet, there are
bombastic directors who put their own
ego ahead of their pupils” welfare, who
act as if they are infallible and won’t
admit their mistakes.

One type of square dance leader en-
ters the hall in which a new class
awaits him, and without a moment’s
hesitation he shouts, “Form sets! All
take places!”

The newcomers do not know what a
“set” is. They do not know why this
kind of dancing is called “square”
dancing. They do not know which way
the first couple is supposed to face.
They do not know on which side of a
partner to stand. They do not know
anything about dance positions with
partners. They do not know what to do
with their hands or feet. And some of
these beginners in square dancing may
never learn, if they are not taught these
things right at the beginning of the
new course.

If their teacher is the kind who as-
sumes that even an infant should know
these elements of square dancing, and
if he brushes aside each question, and
if he causes each confused pupil to be-
come afraid to ask any more questions,
then this untrained teacher will do ac-
tual harm. The poor start may deny to

such an unfortunate group, for all time,

the pleasure of square dancing.
As a contrast, a far different type

. of teacher taught a new class in square

dancing a few years ago at the con-
vention of the Chicago National Asso-
ciation of Dancing Masters. All of the
members of this class were experienced
dance instructors. But the fine teacher,
Mr. Guy Colby, did not assume that all
of these teachers knew exactly how to
perform the elements of square danc-

207

ing as he, himself, felt they should be
performed after his years of research
in this subject.

fle did not tell the group to form
squares. lnstead be told them to form
two straight lines, men in one line fac-
ing ladies in the other line. The oppo-
site lines were about six feet apart. He
went into the details of moving for-
ward and back. In five minutes the
group had a fuller understanding of
how to go forward to meet a partner,
and then return, than many dancers
have learned in forty years of square
dancing. Such details are never learned
if there is no one to teach them cor-
rectly.

The members of the group, still in
their working formation, continued
their rehearsal of details in the per-
formance of the various elements of
square dancing. They experimented
with different ways of doing the bal-
ance, swinging and do-si-do. Even
though one member of the group said.
“This is the way we do it in Ken-
tucky,” and another said, “But this is
the way we do it in Oklahoma,” the
group, as a whole, tried to erase geo-
graphical variations and find a com-

mon mean which might be acceptable
to dancers from every state.

After Mr. Colby’s type of spade
work prior to actual formation of sets,
the dancers performed with real har-
mony and uniformity. His method of a
preliminary workout is in keeping with
the rule in teaching, of proceeding
from the simple to the complex.

The winning characteristic of square
dancing is “togetherness.” ft is a truly
social activity. To maintain pleasant
relations, courtesy must he shown by
the dancers. The men should demon-
strate manliness and gallantry while
they dance. The girls should demon-
strate feminine grace and charm. This
valuable friend-making dance should
not be allowed to degenerate into row-
dyism. Each dancer must play the role
of host or hostess and see to it that
everyone in the set has a good time.

The Ohio caller is disturbed over the
confusion, bedlam,
which he sees from his caller’s plat-
form at square dance parties.

“No two dancers seem to do any of
the steps and figures in the same way.
They do not seem to care whether or
not they are performing correctly.

and sometimes

They forget that it is just as easy to
do it right as to do it wrong.”

He concluded our chat with this con-
viction, "The time has now arrived
when we should stop trying to recon-
eile the square dance styles of various
states, and develop a standardized all-
American square dance style.”

Check List

Memo to square dance teacher:

I. Forward and back
Do they all do it in the same
way?

2. Balance All
Which kind of balance are they
using?

3. Swing l’artners

Do they begin on Count 1, on
pivot feet; are hands, arms o.k.?

4. Grand Right and Left
Any mix-ups?
5. Circle to left 8 counts
Any stop-step on Count 8?

6. Promenade
Are positions uniform?

7. Travel step
Do they use Southern shuffle or

Western jog?

Rules—Five Elan Football

JAMES J. RAFFE‘RTY

"Five Man Football“ is regulation football ployed with five
players on 0 side. Its purpose is to make faatball available to

more boys and young men and to make it a safer game. It is
not the purpose of five man football to displace eleven mon foot-
ball where that sport is being pl0yed satisfactorily, but rather,
to provide a game suited to the needs of groups, or schools.
that are not playlng regular football.

 

Official Rules

. The official rules of the National Federation Interscho-
lastic Football Rules Committee shall govern five man foot-
ball, except when they conflict with the five man rules.
When the eleven man rules conflict with the five man rules,
the five men rulcs shall apply.

Rule I. Each team shall be composed of five players. The
names of the player positions shall be as follows: Left find.
Center, flight find. uarterback, Fullback.

Rule 2. The playing teld shall be a smooth level rectangle,
one hundred yards from goal to goal, and twcntyJive yards

208

wide; the end zones at each end of the field shall be ten
yards long and twenty-five yards wide. The field of play
shall be marked at intervals of ten yards with white lines
parallel to the goal lines, and each of these lines shall be
intersected at right angles by short lines, eight yards in
from the side lines, to indicate the inbound lines.

Rule 3. On the kickoff, the receiving team must be behind
their restrainin line, and at lcast two pla 'ers must remain
within five yards of this fine until the ball is kicked.

Rule 4. The offensive team innst have three players on the
line of scrinnnage when the ball is snapped from center.
Rule 5. The two ends shall be the only players of the of-
fensive team eligible to receive a forward pass.

Rule (. l’laying time shall consist of four quarters of: (I)
grade school—six minutes each; (2) junior high—eight
minutes each: (3) high school—ten minutes each.

Five man football is makin rapid progress; during the
game’s first season in 1950. our teams. comprising sixty
pla 'crs, participated in eighteen games.

flaring the 1951 season, fourteen teams, comprising 190
players. partiei )ath in a total of forty-seven games.

llighlights of several games were televised bv film on the

Cnncmaugh Valley News Program over \VJACL—TV.

 

Author JAMES list‘t‘EttTY serves as the fragile dt'rectOr of
the Greater Johnston'n Parochial Schools. Pennsylvania.

RECREATION

746 SW6 Dam  Me Sea

 

Square and Folk Dancing in Japan

APAN IS RIDING on the crest of a
e] square dancing wave as widespread
and fast moving as that in the United
States. Square dancing was introduced
into Japan in 1946 by Winfield Niblo,
a military government education ofli-
ccr in Nagasaki Prefecture. A veteran
callcr from Colorado, now home again,
he had called all over Denver and the
surrounding countryside, while his sis-
ter played the dance tunes on her ac-
cordion. Mr. Niblo saw the square
dance as a means of promoting democ-
racy and hringing couples together as
partners. lts pOpularity soon mush-
roomed throughout all of the Nagasaki
Prefecture and thence into the other
prcfecturcs of Kyushu lsland . (the
southernmost island of the Japanese
group). Square dance festivals and
conferences were held continuously by
popular demand.

By the time Mr. Niblo moved on to
the northernmost island, Hokkaido,
and at length to GHQ in Tokyo, liter-
ally hundreds of thousands throughout
Japan had caught the square dance
spirit. Dances were held in citizens’
puhlic halls, in schools, in parks and
in the streets. An enormous festival
was scheduled for March of 1952, in
the Imperial Plaza of Tokyo.

Also by popular demand, square
dancing has become an extracurricular
activity at Yokohama’s SCAP Civil In-
formation and Education Center for
the past two years. It is the conviction
of the director that dancing and music

DOROTIIEA MUNRo is director of SCAP
CIE Information Center, in Yokohama.

SEPTEMBER 1952

 

Kimona and zori (Japanese shoes) prove to
be no enjoyment or proficiency deterrent.

create an emotional feeling that helps
to solidify the intellectual democracy
of the center, where many thousands
of books and periodicals havc intro-
duced new technological and sociologi-
cal ways. The staff members themselves
have grown closer in their ties of
friendship since they have joined the
dancing.

One of the most enthusiastic square
dancing groups in Yokohama is that of
the Pen Pals, sponsored by the infor-
mation center. The Pals caught the at-
tention of Mr. Suisci Matsui, famous
radio humorist, when he came to the
center to emcce the first anniversary
performance. Since that time, Mr. Mat-
sui, an ardent supporter of OCCUpation

Dorothea B. Munro

democracy, has been talking and work-
ing with the Pals as a hobby. Their
big moment came when they were
asked to introduce square dancing over
his hour, The Happy Tea Shop, broad-
cast over J OAK every Tuesday evening
at 8:30.

In The Happy Tea Shop, Mr. Matsui

teams up with another actor and guest
star to present half an hour of dialogue
and singing. It is about the most popu-
lar radio offering on the air, here. Mr.
Matsui, a veteran of stage and screen,
has visited Hollywood many times, and
he often lays his radio stories in the
United States. The Pals appeared on
his program about Arizona, and
danced The Texas Star and Divide the
Ring. The calling, like the rest of the
program, was done in Japanese, the
calls having been worked out by a
group in Hokkaido.

On October 30, 1951, the Pals were
asked to appear again. This time, the
center director did the calling in Eng-
lish, and the dances were The Route
and The Wagon Wheel.

The dances, taught by Mr. and Mrs.
Larry Keithley (of Colorado and Cali-
fornia) in a Tokyo occupation group,
have been brought to Yokohama and
introduced by the center director and
by two talented members of the Yoko-
hama center staff, Mrs. Toshie Saito
and. Mr. Kazutaka Kurosaki. A new
spurt of enthusiasm has begun in Y0-
kohama, spearheaded by the fact that
the army’s huge gymnasium, F ryar
Gym, has been made available for
monthly dances. Twenty-five hundred

people attended the last dance, held on
January 26, 1952.

209

7k5gm9méwueatée$m

 

from New Zealand

Sirs:

You may be aware that here in New
Zealand a section of our government,
the Department of Internal Affairs,
Physical Welfare and Recreation
Branch, has introduced American
square dancing to the people. They
first presented it in March 1951, and
it has proved wonderfully popular—
with approximately six hundred danc-
ers attending the square dances held in
the Wellington Town Hall. During the
winter, the Physical Welfare and Rec-
reation Department officers chose peo-
ple to train as square dance teachers
and callers. I was one of their trainees.
We have been taught square dancing,
not as a full-time job, but during our
leisure time we arrange square dances
all over the Wellington Province. This
we do voluntarily, so that people can
enjoy square dancing just as much as
we enjoy the calling.

My object in writing to you is to see
if you can possibly help us in securing
any literature to assist us with the
American square dancing. l’hysical
Welfare and Recreation have done
their best to help us by letting us have
copies of some of their dances and
music, but we must now get along by
ourselves. l have applied to the govern-
mcnt for funds to enable me to write
to publishers for dances, but, because
of the extreme scarcity of dollars in
our country, l have been refused even
the sum of five pounds. Twenty mem-
bers of the Wellington Square Dance
Teachers' and Callers' Association. all
non-commercial callers, get together to
"pool" their dances to try and make
them go round; and anything that you
may be able to send us would be used
by all of us.

A. FITZGERALD. Secretary. Welling-
ton Square Donor Teaehrr5° and
Callers' Association.

210

Letters to the NM

from Australia

Sirs:

In common with other Australian
recreation executives and leaders, I
have been interested in the controversy
about the future of western square
dancing in your country. Out here,
in a country where this form of danc-
ing is not traditional in any region,
yet has been introduced, we are con-
sidcring similar problems. The articles
in RECREATION have been, therefore,
most helpful.

Square dancing has been introduced
to the state of New South Wales, and
to my home town, the small country
city of Tamworth (population 17,000),
which is on the southern fringe of our
new England region. Two years ago,
the average dancer had not seen a
square dance, nor did he know any-
thing of its basic steps or of its ealling
techniques. The nearest thing would
have been the quadrilles of his parents.
as danced over forty years ago. Knowl-
edge of simple square dances was re-
stricted to American residents, recrc-
ation leaders and physical education
teachers in state schools.

Recreation leaders, like myself, used
the NRA book, Simple Square Dances
and Musical Mixers, and from this
taught simple popular dances, such as
Little Brown Jug, Spanish Cavalier,
Parlez Vous, Nelly Grey and the circle
dance, 0 Susanna. These dances were
popular as supplementary activities to
our traditional ballroom dances. llec-
reation and eamp leaders used them at
youth camps, youth get-togethcrs and
parties. -

lf this quiet development is main-
tained. square dancing will firmly con-
solidate a position in our social life out
here in Australia. Those small groups
of Australian youth likcd square danc-
es. but there was no universal knowl-
edge of such dancing. lt was fostered

whcrever a recreation leader or teacher
knew the steps and the figures.

Nobody went crazy over them “be-
cause square dances were fashionable,”
nobody burned the midnight oil in or-
der to compose fancy calls, and nobody
sported new cowboy clothes and riding
boots. Before the craze, we just liked
square dances, in our isolated groups.

With the winter of 1950, however,
came signs of the approaching fad.
Disc jockeys began to push a “pOp”
song called The Hollywood Square
Dance. Did your readers suffer with
that same song? Played over the radio
networks throughout the country, this
song publicized the name of square
dancing and ushered in a regrettable
fad that was to pass on in twelve
months.

By dint of much labor, one caller
even composed a dance known as the
Hollywood Square Dance—a sorry imi-
tation of the simple delightful patterns
of the traditional square dances. To
many dancers, this dance was to be the
means of their first introduction to the
social pleasure of these dances from
your country. I, myself, saw this mon-
strosity of a dance at a traveling side-
show in the local district rural show
(our kind of county fair). It was not
to he wondered that many dancers,
after viewing this commercial venture,
decided then and there that square
dancing was not their type of social
fnn.

Meanwhile. the craze was being
boosted by national magazines with
youth circulations. the radio and the
daily newspapers. Two American call-
ers arrived to give teaching exhibitions
in the capital cities of the Australian
states. These two men. Leonard Ilurst
and Joe Lewis, proved capable and
keen teachers, the former conducting a

Recess-nos

weekly radio class over the government
radio network for about one year.
However, as you can imagine, there
was almost an overnight growth of
square dance callers with various de-
grees of experience and training. Many
of these proved to be poor teachers.
This trivial point did not deter some
from turning “professional” and de-
manding about sixteen dollars per
night for their services. This growth
was unhealthy, and the poor teaching
in so many communities resulted in a
quick loss of interest by many dancers.

As pointed out in RECREATION, May
1951, by Lawrence Loy of Massachu-
setts, many of these amateur callers
tried to command attention by con-
tinually composing fancier calls and
routines, thereby neglecting the render-
ing of clear and concise teaching calls.

Wayne Bly of Atchison, Kansas,
writing in your October 1951 issue,
might well have been describing some
of the Australian square dances when
he mentioned the growth of fancy and
almost unintelligible calls.

But the craze was not really under
way until big business joined the band-
wagon. Then, special shirts, skirts,
blouses, scarves and shoes were mass-
advertised as essential for well-dressed
square dancers. Your blue jeans made
their first general appearance on our
sales Technicolor advertise-
ments with dance routines sold the
usual worldwide brands of toilet soaps
and toothpastes. Dance instructions
even appeared on the cartons of our
breakfast cereals.

market.

Gramophone discs appeared in com-
pany with textbooks and pamphlets on
the steps. Unfortunately, the early disc
releases did not have “practice sides,”
which made instruction harder.

Several callers issued dances of Aus-
tralian origin, as the usual variations
on the basic steps. The most pol)ular
was of short life but was called The
Squarc Dance by the Billabong.

To top it all, a national women’s
magazinc ran a contest, offering about
$4,000 in prize money, for selection of
the star square dance set in thc Com-
monwealth.

The craze showed the power of
abundant publicity. And all the time,
what was happening in a typical coun-
try city, such as my own community?

SEPTEMBER 1952

Naturally, recreation leaders stepped
up their instruction in square dancing,
and found that thc most popular in
youth recreation were Red River Val-
ley, 0 Johnny, Sioux City Sue, Cindy
Lou, Captain Jinks and Sugar Foot
Rag. These, now that the craze has
passed, are still popular.

However, the country communities
were to be rich financial pickings for
professional callers from the city.
Thcse “experts,” with or without a
string hand, then toured the country
towns on one night stands, in a blaze
of publicity. They called to crowded
halls for the first few months. Then,
the results of poor teaching became
apparent, as attendance dwindled in
the country communities.

A criticism of many of these callers
would be that they were impatient to
attempt fresh dances and to leave the
easy routines too quickly. One would
add the obvious point that many call-
ers were almost unintclligible to ele-
mentary dancers, and many were inter-
ested only in making money.

There had never been a professional
caller in Tamworth, so I’d like to de-
scribe his first visit. Coupled with the
fact that the evening was billed as The
Hollywood Square Dance Night, it was
no wonder that the city hall was packed
with noisy excited dancers, keen to
learn the new American dances. A
couple of us from the recreation field
went along to appraise the calling of
the professional. it was a night ne’er
to be forgotten.

Heralded by a drum roll and a
heavy “spot,” a sombrero-ed cowboy
caller, thumbs in his belt, drawled in a
pseudo-American accent that he was
“mighty pleased to show you folks
some real dancing.” The crowd stood
open-eyed but silent.

Then, with a wave of his sombrero,
he called on us all to remove our shoes,
for all the men to roll up their trousers
to shin height and then, backed by a
few bars of music, he concluded this
introductory patter with-“N ow young
fellar, grab your gal, like ole Jake at
the cracker barrel.”

Thc spell was broken-mthe crowd
roared with laughter. After several rou-
tincs by the demonstration set, they
proceedcd to try the dances. The call-
ing was fancy and quick to the un-

initiated, with the result than an esti-
mated fifty per cent of the crowd made
a circus of the evening. This group
did not learn anything more than
“partner swing” and “circle eight” and
had a glorious time unravelling “grand
chains.”

It was no wonder that by April,
1951, public square dancing in the
city was no longer supported, for the
visiting callers attempted to organize
more and more routines for poorly
qualified dancers. The average dancer
considered it a passing craze because
of its overnight growth and publicity.
The square dance is not a traditional
form in our dance halls in Australia,
for we dance mainly modern ballroom
dances. Hence, it could not hope to
gain an immediate place in local rec-
reation.

And what of its future in Australian
recreation? Leave that to our youth
camps, club parties and physical edu-
cation programmes in our state schools,
where simple teaching is available to
all youth. Simple square dances are
popular in these spheres. Herein may
lie the future deveIOpment of square
dancing towards a place in the adult
recreation of the communities. Time

may assimilate square dancing into our
recreation.

G. W. WALKER, Regional Physical
Education 0.6‘icer, Tamworth, Aus.

 

NIIA Discounts;

In answer to inquiries about Na-
tional Recreation Association policy
in regard to discounts on association
publications, we are offering the fol-
lowing revised schedule. This became
effective on July first:

Bookdealers: 30% on quantities from
1 to 50; 331/3979 on quantities of 50
or over.

All others: 30% on quantities of 25 or
more of any one title.
Publications sent on consignment
only when order amounts to $10.00
or more.

Students: Will be permitted to sub-
scribe to RECREATION magazine for
one-half year. This would consist of
five issues for $1.65. it is advised
that, wherever possible, such sub-
scriptions be ordered on a class
basis.

211

I

MAKE YOUR PLANS FOR

@9508

one

 

 

Trick or Treat

HERE mm BEEN a concentrated ef-

fort on the part of the community
to divert Halloween pranksters from
destructive activities. School authori-
ties and parents, assisted by Boy
Scouts, united in a campaign to substi-
tute harmless fun for unlawful aets.
A leading newspaper had offered tick-
ets to a movie theater, with special
attraetions promised, in return for
pledges that youngsters would refrain
from annoying tricks. Unfortunately,
this resurrected the old Halloween
game of “Trick or Treat." Housewives
filled their cooky jars in readiness to
treat, so they might rest assured that
windows, gates and clotheslines would
remain unmolested.

The children did not wait for the
eventful eve, when elves and hohgob-
lins are supposed to make their ap-
pearance, but began festivities several
evenings earlier, ringing doorhells and
shouting, “Trick or Treat." All per-
sons concerned, for the most part, were
good-natured. The boys and girls were
satisfied with a few apples or cookies,
or whatever might be handed them.
One little girl confided gleefully, “I
had so much that l took some home."
But by the time llalloween arrived. the
patience of homemakers was sorer
tried, and clipboards were as empty as

Old Mother Hubbard’s.

0n the morning of All Saints' Day, I
was walking in the crisp November
air. That hobgoblins and elves had held
sway the evening before was apparent
by gruesome warnings and markings
on windowpanes. By these markings
one could easily snrmise where triek-
sters had been repulsed. Childish voices
interrupted my thoughts, and my at-
tention was drawn to the conversation
of two little boys, about five and three
years of age.

“I wish I badn' lost that dime,” the
older of the two was saying pensiver.
“What dime?" queried the smaller
one indifferently; he was busily eu-
grossed in manipulating a toy automo-
bile. “Why, don't you remember? The
dime the dame handed us when we told
her ‘Trick or Treat.’ lf we had it, we
could buy some candy." The boy's face
brightened with inspiration. “I'll tell
you what," he exclaimed, “let’s go
there again tonight an' tell her ‘Triek
or Treat!’ 'l'hen she'll have to give Its
another dime."

\Vlmt Were the processes of thought
going on in the active mind of the five.-
year-old boy. who, by the simple de-
vice of warning “Triek or Treat." had
received a shining dime with all its
purchasing power? llis determination

Sibyl Lelah Templeton

to repeat the experience shows the kind
of seed that had been planted in his
consciousness. A knock at the door, a
challenge to produce a dime or its
equal or suffer the consequence—a
nice beginning in blackmail—and our
very young friend was on the road to
an unhappy career.

Where were the parents of these
small but active-minded youngsters?
The “Trick or Treat” way out seemed,
to them, to solve their problem. “The
children must have their fun!" Perhaps
Dad and Mother were entertaining at
dinner or were planning to go out for
the evening. At any rate, five-year-old
Johnnie had been permitted to go out
into the alluring darkness and bad pro-
cured easy money. l'ilated by his sue-
cess, he had conceived the idea of re-
peating the performanee.

Wisdom and watehfulness are neees-
sary for the proper guidance of little
children. Their manner of thinking he-
gins to develop very early. llet us not
allow the mental attitudes of our boys
and girls to beeome warped by ehanee
unfortunate influenees, as unquestion-
ably they may be if such influences are
unobserved by us and no! counter-
acted.

_—_‘

ls-ued by the National Kindergarten Assn»
rinlion. 8 Wed 40th Street. New York City.

W
W

2l2

ltizcasmox

OPERATION 7am; kv’n #ead

Cooperation means a
successful city-wide
Halloween

GOBLINS of assorted sizcs and shapes descend upon the
city of La Crosse, Wisconsin, every Halloween—--
completely equipped with apprOpriate shrieks, costumes,
appetites, and enough unleashed energy to run a light and
power plant for weeks. But instead of whisking away back
porches or upending their dignified elders, these gob-
lins cut loose in gymnasiums, playrooms and transformed
classrooms all over the city. Every school, puhlic and paro-
chial, holds a party, with teachers, janitors and parents
volunteering their services.

It all began ten years ago when the traditional window
soaping was beginning to get out of hand. l’cople were in-
jured and property destroyed as a result of youngsters cele-
brating their Halloween night in uttcr abandon and with
youthful thoughtlessness. Complete abolishment of Hallow-
cen in our city was not the answer, of course. With all its
mystery and magic, its ghosts and ghouls, haunts and
hoots, Halloween is a youngster’s time to howl. The only
answer seemed to lie in closcr supervision, with this special
holiday spirit still prevailing and the boundless energy
expended, but guided into less violent channels.

At the suggestion of Mr. Ben Franke, then president of
the hoard of education, a committee was organized to
solicit funds from mcrchants; and school teachers and
janitors staged the parties. When the Division of Municipal
liccrcation and School Extension was organized seven years
ago, this problem was givcn to the department. Thus, the
division of recreation plunged into action. E. P. Hartl,
superintendent of the dcpartment, drew up a plan for city-
wide school partics evcry Halloween, and presented it to
the common council. Funds were appropriatcd by the city
instead of solicited from merchants—enough to supply
cach parochial and public school principal with eight cents
per grade school child, ten cents for each junior high
school youngster and twelve cents for every high school
boy and girl. This money was to be uscd to help buy the
necessary mountain of soft drinks, ice crcam, hot dogs,
doughnuts, or whatcvcr refreshments were decided upon.

MISS BRENNER, supervisor of women’s and girls” activities,
Division of Municipal Recreation and School Extension,
was most active in organizing last year’s parties ‘in La
Crosse.

SEPTEMBER 1952

Ann Brenner

 

Refreshment time in Washington school. All over city goblins
revel in gymnasiums, playrooms and transformed classrooms.

Parent-teacher associations pitched in with additional
funds and personal work. This money provided exciting
movies. ‘

At thc division of recreation office, furious preparations
hcgin every year about three wecks bcfore October 31,
with a session on the mimcograph machine yielding
enough copies of a game-and-idea manual to supply each
school principal and committee chairman. The booklet
contains many suggestions for decorating a classroom for
Halloween, describes both active and quiet Halloween
gamcs, stunts and novelties. The material is mailed to each
school with an explanatory letter and a return-addressed
post card upon which the principal fills in the number of

° youngsters in the school, costs according to age levcl, and

the total amount to be paid the school by the recreation
department.

And in every grade school, the annual and tremendous
costume parade is held. How many mamas spend how
many hours rigging up how many little ones to look like
Gravel Certie’s maiden aunt, two-gun What’s-his-name, or
thc late somebody’s skeleton? The look of pride on the
faces of the parents (because they often come to the par-
ties, too) when their own youngster marches before the
judges is something to behold.

Each year, the program has experienced ever greater

213

success, until last year the test of tests was given it. The
annual Wisconsin Teachers' Convention was scheduled for
November 1, in Milwaukee. In order to attend the first
day's session, La Crosse teachers would have to leave the
city October 31, Halloween afternoon. in the recreation
department, faces fell to a new low. We knew the program
had proved itself in past years—police reports showed al-
most no vandalism Halloween nights. But what would
happen if the school parties were held the day before Hal-
loween?

0n party night, every school was activity from top
to bottom, from end to end, from principal to small fry.
There was young laughter and singing and shouting of
ten thousand healthy citizens, while they played scores of
games, watched dozens of movies, and consumed breath-
taking amounts of food in classrooms all over the city.

The three La Crosse high schools held dances from 8:00
to 11:30 p.m. in school gymnasiums. Music was by jukc
box. and in the case of Central High School, the music
was played by our recreation swing band, made up of
members of the Swing Shanty Youth Center, who beat out
smooth, danceable rhythms. The gyms were crowded with
dancers, and other rooms bulged with boys and girls play-
ing checkers, shulllcboard, cards or table tennis. A movie
thriller had been shown earlier in the evening. Continuous
cafeteria service provided hot dogs, ice cream, soft drinks
and doughnuts, doled out by a man or woman who, six

hours before, had perhaps handed out a test paper, or
corrected the day’s lesson.

As far as school personnel was concerned, Halloween '51
was ofiieially over when the last little goblin had been
awakened from exhausted sleep beside her witch cap and
pumpkin, and when the school custodian had closed the
door behind the last high school students as they started
toward home at the stroke of midnight.

But we in the recreation department wouldn’t know how
succcsful our program was for another twenty-four hours.
until October 31 had shed black hat and cape and become
November.

And so we waited for the morning of November 1, until
we received the police department report, which told us
that Halloween 1951 was one of the most quiet on record!
Quiet? Well, not in twenty-six schools the night of Octo-
her 30, and not for 10,238 happy, healthy young Ameri-
cans, but quiet where it counted most-—-on the streets and
in the back yards of La Crosse, in the damage and in-
juries that didn’t happen, and in the records of the divi-
sion of municipal recreation where all you will find are the
few words, “llallowcen 1951—a rousing, shouting sue-
ccss!”

We expect our 1952 parties to be better than ever, pat-
tcrned along these same lines; and with the continued
splendid cooperation of school personnel, it is certain they

will be!

CGHHIHIll.)’-H’ill0 Halloween Planning Establishing New Customs

Because community leaders have
“done something" ahout the formerly
accepted vandalism of ilallowcen, a
new attitude toward how to celebrate
this traditional holiday is being devel-
oped among children and young peo-
ple. Local groups in widely separated
cities have arrived at similar solutions,
making 1951 a banner year for happy
and harmless celebrations.

in Leavenworth, Kansas, the first
neighborhood llallowccn program was
organized throngh the joint efforts of
the chamber of commerce, the .laycecs
and the city recreation commission.
They called a meeting of all the organ-
ized groups in the city, and out of this
grew a plan for indoor parties in each
neighborhood. The former city-wide
outdoor cclchration had become too ex-
pensive, and one big party was not
serving a large enough number of
children. Their objective became,
“Every school and every church in the
Community lighted on Halloween night
and a children's or youth party con-

2M

ducted in each.” Each party was spon-
sored by a committee, but central com-
mittees for fund raising, program and
recognition were formed. A demonstra-
tion party for local committee mem-
bers was conducted on the evening of
October 29; the neighborhood parties
for the children were given on the
afternoon or evening of October 31.
Publicity in newspaper and radio, and
money for refreshments and prizes
came from the central committee, rc-
licving local groups of these chores.
One hundred jack-pot prizes and thir-
ty-two costume prizes were provided,
distributed among the forty neighbor-
hood parties. Thirty minutes after 9:00
p.m., the time set for parties to dis-
miss, the committee drew names from
each party group and phoned their
child owners. (All names of those at.
tending had been listed for this pur-
pose.) if the child was at home. he or
she received a jackpot prize. Names
and addresses of winners were pub-
lished in the paper the following day.
The police department recorded l95l

Halloween as one of the quietest in
Leavenworth's history.

The recreation department of Ypsi-
lanti. Michigan, tried something dif-
fcrcnt. They called a meeting of civic
groups in September and planned city-
wide parties for elementary students in
the schools and junior high boys and
girls in the community centers, but for
high school age young people no par-
ties were planned. instead, stress was
placed on home parties, and steps were
taken to publicize the idea and give
help to home party planners. A leaflet,
partly paid for by the American Le-
gion, outlining denyrations, games and
suggested menu, was written by the
department and distributed by local
merchants. A radio program was pro-
duced. giving similar information.
Demonstration parties were given, us-
ing the plans in the leaflet. It wasn't
until llallowccn was over and the rec-
ord showed a “quiet” night that recre-
ation leaders were able to know their
planning had been successful.

Rncnmrlox

 

EN DAYS BEFORE Halloween, a special radio program an-
r[‘nounces to the 28,000 citizens of Torrington, Connecti-.
cut, the beginning of their annual Halloween community
celebration. The complete schedule is broadcast, and radios
in practically every home in the city are tuned to reveal
what is in store for the children. The program is sponsored
by the city recreation commission’s special events depart-
ment, helped by local businessmcn, newspapers, radio sta-
tions and many organizations and individuals.

Somc of the features are a radio mystery voicc contest,
store window guessing contests, store window painting
contcsts, a homemade, pumpkin jack-o’-lantern contest, cos-
tumc parade, community party on Halloween night, cnter-
tainment and a dance for teen-agers.

Thc Torrington Broadcasting Company conducts a radio
mystery voicc contest, “Who is Mr. Jack-o’-Lantern?” Thc
recorded voice of a well-known Torrington personality is
played four times daily, giving clues as to the identity of
the mystery voice. New clues are given cach day. This
contest is open to all grammar school children. Parents
may help the youngsters with their guesses, which are
mailed to contest officials on a postcard. Children arc al-
lowed onc gucss each day of the contest, and thc winner
is thc first child who correctly identifies the mystery voice.
The lucky child receives a list of prizes donated by city
merchants.

Hundreds of entries are received during the ten-day
guessing period, and Mr. Jack-o’-Lantern makes his ap-
pearance on Hallowecn night at the community celebra-
tion hcld at the local ball park under the lights.

Hc arrives in his gigantic pumpkin float, escortcd by
the police and firc chiefs. All the contest entrants are at
the park waiting for his arrival.

Thc store window guessing contests, conducted by scv-
eral local store owners, are opcn to all grammar school
children. Somc of the contests are: How many seeds in the
pumpkin? How much does Mr. Jack-o’-Lantern weigh?
How many straws in the witches’ broom? And dozens of
others.

 

MR. BOZENSKI has been for the past jive years program
director of Torrington’s park and recreation commission.

SEPTEMBER 1952

“Mr. Javk-o’lantern”?

Carl Bozenski

 

Store owners usually arrange an attractive window dis-
play, using a Halloween theme for dccorations. Here,
again, parents can be seen making the rounds of the stores,
helping the children with their guesses. Each store awards
a prize to the winner, and all winners are announced at
the park Halloween celebration. Thousands of entries are
received.

A third feature of the celebration is the Halloween win-
dow painting contest. The city’s unior artists take over for
the weekcnd before Halloween and paint almost every store
window in thc city. This event is Open to all grammar and
high school students. Entry blanks are distributed at the
schools, and window Space is assigned to all entrants.
Eon-Ami, or a similar medium, is used, and this can be
mixed with dry colors. It is very easy to wash off, and there
is no danger of discoloring any of the store fronts. Chil-
dren practice for days, using their home windows, and
receiving a little coaching from their proud parents. Many
of the paintings attract the attention of motorists passing
through the city, and hundreds of rcsidents enjoy walking
from window to window to see the various efforts. Judges
work in teams to select the outstanding paintings. All
winners, who receive gold loving cups and paint sets, are
announced at the park celebration.

The climax, at the outdoor party at Fuessenich Park on
Halloween night, finds almost every child in the city,land
thousands of adults, on hand to take part in the festivities.
A program, jam-packed with activities, starts at seven
o’clock and lasts for two and one-half hours. All contest
winners are announced at intervals during the evening.

The park party Opens with a homemade jack-o’-lantern
contest. Prizes are awarded for the biggest and best pump-

215

Loeal artists take painting seriously, praetiee on home windows in adv:

Merchants eonduet “Store Window Guess-
ing Contest," for grammar school children.

 

r"llroomsticlc Race um 0! mo»! popular ehil- Recreation director Bozenski, rudio announc-
dren -« game: at park party: Halloween night. er hillioum. (luring lor-al broadcast of party.

"Balloon Blowing (on-
F"

test mre take: a lot of

wind! (lowns snpervire.

 

home of the home made incl-
party. Children start modeling
Pumpkins become scarce as it

 

R” m: ATION

 

'aint” of Bon Ami and dry colors easily washes off, is unaffected by rain.

I.

“Bee” elowns, mostly local merchants inter-
ested in children, entertain under lights.

 

Even the littlest ones march in parade with Witches, ghosts, gypsies, many that defy de-
their parents, for this is a family affair. seription, follow band around ball park.

Thousands of adults at-
tend and enjoy affair.
Many volunteer to help.

 

in eontest whieh opens the park
1 advance. Hundreds are entered.
fearsome or jovial eountenanees.

SEPTEMBER 1952 21?

 

Hundreds dI't entered, and children start
modeling their lanterns day-s in advance. Pumpkins he-

wme. a scarrity in the city. \lost of the entries show that
the children spent much time and thought in their prep-
aration. Jaek-o’dantcrns of all sizes, shapes and facial ex-
pressions are. entered. and the judges have a difficult time
~elceting the winners.

While the judging is in progress. the recreation depart-
ncnt's ('IHWII band and elown troupc entertain the crowd.
The elven troUpe consists of several of the local merchants
and volunteer adults who assist with the program.

Children's games are then conducted for a half-hour
period. These include hroomstiek races. balloon hlowing

km lanterns

contests. shoe stramble. and
many other exciting events.
The “liceP clowns race along
with the kids. keeping the
crowd amused w ith their antics.
The spectators join in with the

 

spirit of the occasion, cheering
for their favorites.

Immediately following the game session. a etmmtunity
sing and entertainment program starts. with professional
talent featured. The. master of ceremonies leads the entire
t-rowd in the singing of old-tune melodies-

The hi1.r rostnme parade is next on the program. The
route of march is around the. quarter-mile track circling
the hall park. llundreds of children and their parents
rnareh in the parade, which is led hy the clown hand. The.)

wear a fantastic variety of costumes. There are witches,
ghosts, gypsics, clowns, patriotic figures. hoboes, and many
that defy description. The paradcrs march in different age
groups, and several prizes are awarded for the best cos-
tumcs in each grOUp. Everyone has a royal time singing,
shouting, laughing, and the marchers present a wonderful
sight in their costumes -whieh hring out rounds of ap-
plause and howls of laughter as they pass the spectators'
stands. The folks really enjoy it!

Just as the parade is over and the. final prizc presenta-
tions are heing made, the wail of a siren can he heard.
This is the signal that the mystery voice, in the person of
Mr. Jack-oi-Lantern, is entering the park in his pumpkin
coach. The crowd is awed at the size of the coach, and a
great roar comes Up from the children, as the float reaches
the judges’ stand and Mr. .laek-o’-Lantcrn steps, out. The
winner of the mystery voice contest is then announced, and
prizes awarded to the happy child.

Every year a surprise feature eloscs the celehration. Last
year, it was a beautiful display of aerial fireworks.

Teen-agcrs are not forgotten on Halloween night. Their
llalloween party and dance is held at. the spacious Tor-
rington armory, with the best dance hand in the city pro-
viding the music. This is open to all tccn-agcrs. and no
admission is charged.

llcsidcnts of Torrington no longer dread the llalloW-
een season. Instead, they look forward to the annual cclc-
hration which hrings such happiness to the youngsters.
Why not plan a community celebration for your city?

 

  

OSBORN OFFERS YOU . . .

 

I CHAMPIONS .

IIG ILLUSTRATED SUPPLY FOLDER
v _,

Shaw: many oosy-to—moko camp pru'locts ‘ i 'v '3'
roody to put togothor, such as bountiful

bolts, bogs, pursot, clgorotto com and
hundreds of othor horns.

(o
,v"

 

"CAMP SPECIAL" MOCCASIN

Gonuino loolhor with compost.

lion solos. All slxos for all oqos.
ldoal for tho booch, In tho

woods, along paths and far
bunglng.

Por Palr--$J.95
$3.55 In 12 pair Ion

*OO-PAOI LEATHIRCIAF‘I’ SUPPLY CATALOG—ONLY 25:

'1 "or w e" * ---‘. .«f Hares-m med leather i'-~ar of in-
' t ' ‘ " nr‘ tell-1; lr " to an, tmtnr‘f a
r n 5 q .--s ‘1' ‘.. 1p new. or u

CLIP AND MAIL NOW!
osoom nos. suem co..

 

"no" In tho World
For tho Worll'l

Oroo to" Arhtotoi

   

i
22) W. Joduon NHL. Chicago o, III.
i I ‘ t'“ ' ' rt -- flinch-tr " " a". f» | ' —* »- L ’ ’— - ‘ ‘ —
I " ‘- ‘ 1‘1 - at" rm f y . ‘
| : - Maya WWW 
| I II-IOO'Iov- onto-u oo oonoo no
I t r a '1: I
| I

-—-.-‘.“--n_---_--‘

   

1m Inc-nun;

HOW THE RECREATION EXECUTIVE
APPRAISES, HIS OWN PERFORMANCE

To APPRAISE his own performance
on the job, the recreation execu-
tive must (1) have adequate firsthand
information about how his organiza-
tion is functioning in order to deter-
mine in his own mind what kind of
job he is doing, and (2) have adequate
sources of information to ascertain
public opinion on what kind of job he
is doing.

The successful executive knows and
is satisfied with what his organization
is doing and, at the same time, has his
ear close enough to the ground to know
that the public is with him on at least
eighty per cent of his work at any
given time. The executive needs to give
first consideration to sounding out
public Opinion, at the same time, try-
ing not to lose sight of the related im-
portance of devising and reading de-
partmental reports and studies and
delving into other means for measuring
internal administrative performance.

Some of the things helpful in ap-
praising work from within are:

1. Sta/] meetings—only when there
is something definite to talk about.

2. Departmental reports—prepared
in such a way that trends and per-
formance can be evaluated. Regular re-
ports should he kept to a minimum,
with more emphasis on one-time or
special reports, as needed.

3. Personal inspections—and con-
tacts with the various segments of the
organization. There is no substitute
for observing Operations firsthand.

4. Use of a research assistant—
whether someone is employed for such
a purpose or whether the duty is as-
signed to a regular cmployee, such as
the department clerk.

5. Use of “standards” or “yard-

SEPTEMBER 1952

sticks”——for measuring departmental
performance. Yardsticks can be Ob-
tained from visiting other cities, spend-
ing several hours or a day observing
Operations, asking questions about
costs, and so on. Make a point of visit-
ing several cities each year to Observe
their various Operations. Yardsticks
can be obtained from numerous publi-
cations, including The Recreation and
Park Yearbook and the Schedule for
the Appraisal of Community Recrea-
tion. And last but not least, meetings,
such as the National Recreation Con-
gress, furnish much valuahle informa-
tion that can be used by an executive
to compare and evaluate his own and
his organization’s performance.

Techniques in appraising work from
without include:

1. Talking to the “man on the
street”~Take timc regularly to drOp
into the bank, the corner drug store
and the luncheon cluh, and Spend a
few minutes talking about what’s going
on in the city. The executive should
try to maintain relations with his “Op-
position” as well as with his “boost-

ers.”

2. Making use of reporters’ ears and
eyes—It is helpful if the executive’s
relations with the press and radio are
such that he can get their frank opin-
ion of various department programs
and learn what they hear on the street.

3. Maintaining informal commission
relations—The executive should sup-
plement his meetings with frequent in-
dividual conversations with his chair~
man and the members on the tOpic of
“What do you hear?” or “What do
you think the public’s reaction would
be to so and so?" Care must be exer-

cised in this connection. however, to

safeguard the executive’s responsibility
for independent thinking and action.

4. Using department employees as
public opinion surveyors—In a small
city the executive should know the
names of all of his workers, and in a
large city the executive should know
the supervisors and directors in his
department. If so, he can effectively
stop and chat with them on what the
public thinks about the new city plan
for recreation areas, or the proposed
schedule of fees and charges, or the
need for more indoor centcrs. If your
secretary rides the hus to work, she
can furnish you invaluable information
on what the public is saying about
your work.

5. Knowing the neighborhood “may-
ors”-——-An executive should be ac-
quainted with the “natural-born” poli-
ticians in the several sections of the
city, so that he can and does spend a
few minutes with them wherever he
happens to meet them—whether it he
in the barber shop, the court house, at
the ball game or on the street corner.
These men, often without formal edu-
cation or training, can tell you more
in five minutes about what the puhlic
is thinking than Dr. Callup could in
five hours. They may be the court
clerk, a used-car dealer, an insurance
agent, a neighborhood store owner, a
judge or the retired mayor—but who-
ever they are, the executive should
spend a few minutes with them each
week, talking about the community
news of the day.

1"Adapted with permission from “How the
Manager Appraises His Own Performance"
by Kent Mathewson. City Manager, Martins-
ville, Virginia. Public Management. Decem-
ber 1951. ‘

219

Building Costs

' The mounting cost of building con-
struction is illustrated by the following
statement that appeared in the Decem-
ber 1951 issue of the NEA Journal.
“From 1939 to September of 1951,
the overall cost of school construction
had more than doubled. In just one
year’s time-—from 1950 to September
I951—eonstruction costs rose by near-
ly eight per cent. A classroom with re-
lated facilities which would have cost
$13,000 in 1935-1939 cost $28,000 in
1950, and would cost an average of
$30,000 today. As a result, the United
States Office of Education’s estimated

minimum need of 600,000 new class-

!” !‘

rooms by 1931-36 would cost $18 bil-
lion as against $7.8 billion for equiva-
lent construction in 1939."

Trends and Forecasts in Planning“

' In an article under this title Hugh
ll. Pomcroy, Director, Department of
Planning, Westehcster County, New
York, points out that we are in the
midst of a revolution in planning, aris-
ing principally from the effects of the
automobile and the changing character-
isties of building and land-area design.
A number of his comments have special
significance to recreation workers.

“The old measures of planning,
brought right up to date, will still not
be enough in many cities. A play-
ground may counteract the forces fos-
tering juvenile delinquency, but it can-
not correct bad housing conditions. . . .
l observe only that if we must err in
redevelopment—and we shall—let us
err in the direction of tomorrow, and
in this I mean in the direction of spa-
eiousnes-s and low density.

“What do we need to know in order
to plan? . . . Above all, we need to
know what we don't know. A slide rule
or comptometcr can't make a mistake,
but the buyer who operates it can.

“I am concerned with the desire of
a child for a place to play, as against
a decision by the city that it can't
aflord to provide it. I am concerned
with the long-term interests of the com-
munity as set against, for instanee, the
pressures of short-interest land devel-
opers or land peddlers.

- r- s

' Quoted from Public Management.

220

“Remember, too, that . . . it isn’t
practical to skimp on land and space.
Everything that you build will some-
day be obsolete—except perhaps some
great work of civic art—but space
never becomes obsolete. We are build-
ing streets, neighborhoods, and public
buildings that should be good beyond
the end of this half century. We must
certainly do more than partly catch up
with the needs of yesterday.”

Unconstitutional

. Provisions in 1949 amendments to
an act passed in the state of Pennsyl-
vania in 1947, empowering township
commissioners to adopt land subdivi-
sion regulations, have been declared
unconstitutional in an Opinion handed
down by the Court of Quarter Sessions
in Montgomery County, Pennsylvania.
The 1919 law states that the owner of
land to be subdivided “may designate
on the plan whether streets, parks and
other improvements are ofTercd for
dedication,” and also, “the streets,
parks and other improvements shall be
deemed to be a private street, park or
other improvement until the same shall
have been accepted by the township by
ordinance or resolution or been con-
demned for public use.”

The court decided that insofar as the
act grants to commissioners of town-
ships of the first class the power to re-
quire subdividch to designate a por-
tion of the land subdivided for parks,
playgrounds and recreation spae'cs. it
is “unreasonable, constitutes a taking
of private property for public purposes
without Consideration and is therefore
unconstitutional and void."

The court pointed out that since land
may lie idle. for years before the town-
ship decides to accept it or to con-
demn it for park purposes, the areas
designated for park and recreation
purposes “will become overgrown with
weeds and bushes, they will be places
for the surreptitious dumping of trash
and garbage aml a haven for immoral
conduct. Instead of promoting public
welfare they may advcrscly aflect the
public health, safety and morals.”

Pennsylvania Plans, issued by the
state planning board, comments on the
decision: “One of the factors which
might have supported a dillercnt deci-
sion is that these dedication require-

%aZe¢,,,

ments generally conform to an overall
master plan and, as such, represent
vitally needed recreational areas that
the commissioners would not request if
they did not plan to further dcvcl0p
and maintain them.”

A Better Place to Live

. “What Recreation Means to My
Community" was the t0pic of a panel
of mayors at a New Jersey League of
Municipalities convention. Following
the discourse by the mayors, a spirited
discussion among the people attending,
took place. Persons from the floor
asked several questions. The first was,
“flow could recreation help stabilise
the tax rate?” Mayor Scott of Bloom-
field stated that rccrcation helped sta-
bilize the population by making the
community a desirable place to live.

-It also encourages permanent busi-

ness and industry to settle in the
area. People moving into a community
ask what opportunities are available
for the children, to aid their growth
and devel0pmcnt. Vlayor Bicrtucmpicl
reported that many people moving into
Union want to know how close their
property is to the nearest playground
and other recreational facilities. As an
additional cornmeal, Chairman Mitch-
cll said that in planning the develop-
ment of towns, ten to twelve per cent
of the total acreage should be reserved
for open space, which should include
recreational facilities.

ln reply to the question, “What can
be done about congested city areas
where space is at a premium?” the
mayors advised the recreation commit-
tees to cooperate wholeheartedly with
other organizations, such as the board
of education, churches, “Y’s,” and so
forth. They also reported that in con-
sidering the welfare of the people, the
expense involved in condemning areas

Recamnos‘

for; 2366 z4dmc'mmtm

and reclaiming lost land would justify
the expenditures.

In response to the last question,
“Should recreation departments have
Sunday activities?” the group felt that
action should be based on the local
mores and traditions of that particular
community—ROBERT D. SISCO, Treas-
urer, Public Recreation Association.

A Survey of Recreation
Departments in \Visconsin

. The Wisconsin Recreation Associa-
tion has been one of the most active
among state recreation groups in the
gathering of information for the bene-
fit of its members. One example of its
activities is a report issued late in 1950
by its research committee (Mr. Pat
Dawson of Janesville, chairman), re-
lating to various phases of the service
of recreation departments in Wiscon-
sin. Reports were received from twen-
ty-eight cities, and the replies were
summarized in three separate sections,
each dealing with cities in a population
group. These reports covered three
classes: “A” cities of 50,000 and over,
fifteen class ‘3” cities between 15,000
and 50,000 and ten class “C” cities
with population under 15,000. Most of
the cities submitted information on all
the questions covered in the inquiry,
and the report gives an excellent pic-
lure of procedure in Wisconsin cities.
From the many items covered in the
report the following have been selected
as bcing of wide interest:
Car Allowance—All of the class “A”
and “B” cities reporting provide a
car allowance, and a majority of the
class “C” cities do likewise.
Conference Allowance—An allowance
for attendance at conferences is grant-
ed in all but one of the cities submit-
ting information.
Woman Assistant—*Thc two class “A”

I SEPTEMBER 1952

cities reported a woman assistant to
the executive, but only three of the
smaller cities report such a worker ex-
cept during the summer months.

Man Assistant—Ten of the cities re-
porting employed a man assistant, pre-
sumably on a full-time basis.

Budget Increases—In 1950, fourtccn
cities had a larger budget than in
1949, five had the same budget and five
showed a slight decrease. The figures
do not include maintenance.
Playgrounds—A major portion of the
report related to summer playground
operation and the following are a num-

ber of major items relating to this part.

of the program.

A total of 294 playgrounds were re-
ported, seventy-six of which, in eight
cities, were lighted for night use. The
length of the playground season varied
from six weeks in one city to twelve
weeks in another city, with eight-week
and ten-week seasons reported most
frequently. A five-day week is most
common, but a few cities reported their
playgrounds open five and a half days.
Milwaukee reports some of its play-
grounds Open, with limited leadership,
scvcn days per week.

Considerable variation is recorded
in the hours during which the play-
grounds are open, but in most cities
the program is carried on morning,
afternoon and evening. Morning hours
are usually from 9:00 to 12:00, after-
noon hours from 1:00 to 5:00 and eve-
ning hours from 6:30 until dark. In a
large majority of the cities, play-
grounds are closed for an hour or more
at noon; a smaller number close the
playgrounds during the dinner hour.

Both a man and a woman are em-
ployed as leaders in a majority of
cities; two such leaders were reported
at 201 playgrounds. At forty-three
playgrounds in eleven cities a woman

leader only was reported, and at thirty-
four playgrounds in twelve cities the
only worker was a man. The hours per
day served by the leaders vary from six
to ten, but in a majority of cities,
working hours vary from seven to nine

daily. Specialists or supervisors are

employed in most of the cities above
15,000, with the class “B” cities aver-
aging four such workers pcr city. Only
three cities under 15,000 report special
workers, but these average about three
per city.

Apparatnstetailed information was
assembled with reference to the num-
ber and types of apparatus and equip-
ment provided on the playgrounds.
The following is a summary of the re-
sults. Madison was the only class “A”
city which reported on the number of
apparatus units. The figures in paren-
theses represent the number of cities
reporting the number of units.

Number
of Cities Number
Types of Apparatus Reporting of Units
Reported
Sand Boxes . . . ... .. 24 101 (13)
Swings................. 23 223 (13)
Slides . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 55 (12)
Horizontal Bors . . . . . . .. 19 66 (13)
Horizontal Ladders . . . . . . 18 55 ( 9)
Teeters .... . .. 18 144 (11)
Jungle Gyms . . . . . . . . 16 68 (10)

Traveling Rings . . . . . . .°. 16 16 ( 4)

Merry-Go-Rounds . . . . . . . 13 34 ( 9)

Climbing Ladders . . . . . .. 9 22 ( 5)

Climbing Poles . . . . . . . . . 8 12 ( 4)

Tree Climbs . . . . . . . . . .. 2 1 ( 1)

Balance Beoms . . . . . . . . . 2 1 ( 1)

Basketball Goals . . . . . .. 24 133 (12)

Bean Bag Boards . . . . . . . 19 112 ( 9)
Permanent Volleyball Posts 16 45 ( 8)

Other sections of the report contained
detailed information as to salary scales
for the playground workers, athletic
officials and other personnel, entry 'or
per session fees for activities and
maintenance costs.

“That the boy will play is inevitable.
Where, what, and how he plays should be
the serious concern of those who are inter-
ested in his future.”——From Boys Clubs.

221

RIIYTIIMIC ACTIVITIES are becoming
as popular with teen-agers these
days as jive and television. The fun
is in the challenge of having to be
alert and ever precise. Besides, being
“hep” to rhythmic games has proved
good training for swinging and sway-
ing on the dance floor.

The following offer a few sugges-
tions for recreation with rhythm:

Snap—3M Rhythm

Formation—Leader, who is “It,” faces
group. Players number off and sit
in line or semi-circle.

Action—The leader begins by prac-
ticing the following rhythmic mo-
tions: slap own thighs (count 1);
clap own hands (count 2); snap fin-
gers (count 3). The rhythm must be
smooth and even. On the snap, “It”
calls a number and the person whose
number is named must call another
number on the next snap. This person
calls another, and so the action con-
tinues. Only numbers are used which
include the group. If anyone fails to
call a number on the next snap afterhis
number has been called, he goes to
the foot of the line and all players
move up one place, changing their
numbers as they do so. The object
of the game is to reach and stay in
the number one chair.

Note: After the group has played this
game, it is a challenge to see if mem-
bers ean eontinue while someone plays
a waltz. Since the heavy beat of the
wall: is its first, and the game "snap"

 

Mas. ANNE: l.t\'l.\'CSTON is a leadership
training specialist on the stat} of Na-
tional Recreation Association.

222

Anne Livingston

accents the third beat, it is dillieult to
coordinate.
V ariation—4/4 rhythm
In this, clap own thighs (count 1);
clap own hands (count 2); snap
thumb and third finger of left hand
(count 3); snap thumb and third fin-
ger of right hand (count 4).
Action—A player calls his own num-
ber on .the first snap and another per-
son’s number on the second snap.
That player then calls his own num-
her on the following snap and an-
other player’s number on the fourth.
Each player repeats the action when
his number is called.
V ariation—4/4 rhythm
This is fun for those who like to con-
eentrate and think fast. The action is
the same as in the above variation,
but players do not call their own num-
her. On the first snap, the player ealls
another number and on the next snap,
names a city. The person whose num-
her was called. calls a number on one
snap and, on the next, names a city
which begins with the last letter of the
city just named.
Example: Slap, clap, 3, Chicago
Slap, clap, 6, Omaha
Slap, clap, tl. Atlanta.

Double Patty-Cake Polka

Music: "Little Brown Jug" or any-
thing in polka rhythm. This is the
simple and popular mixer. with a
double patty-cake.
Formotr'ona—Couples face each other,
with both hands joined.

 

Action—Man starts with left foot and
lady with right. Heel-toe-heel-toe
(touching to left side); slide-slide-
slide-slide (hold), moving to man's
left. Repeat above, alternating feet and
moving to right. Clap own hands twiee,
partners right himd with your right
twice, your own hands twiee, partners
left hand with your left hand twice,
your own hands twice, your partner's
two hands twice, your own hands twice,
your own knees twiee. All join el-
bows with own partner and turn onee
around, returning to original position;
then all move to own left to face new
partner. Repeat several times. The
rhythm sounds like this: Heel, toe,
heel, toe and slide, slide, slide, slide;
heel, toe, heel, toe, and slide, slide,
slide, slide; clap clap, right right, clap
clap, left left, clap clap, both both,
clap clap, knees knees; turn—and
move to the left.

Peas Porridge—4M Rhythm

Formation—Four or six persons seated
in a circle. There can be more, but
there must be an even number. (This
is the "old" version changed to the
"teen" version.)

Action—(l) Peas porridge 110! (All
clap thighs once, own hands together
once, clap hand, once each, of persons
on either side); (2) Peas porridge cold
(ltepeat above.) ; (3) Peas porridge in
the pot (All clap thighs once, own
hands once, clap hands crossing-“girl
using left hand, clapping right hand of
boy to right. This is on words, in the.

“seam-nos

All clap own hands once on pot.) ; (4)
Nine days old (All clap hands, cross-
ing—girl‘using right hand, clapping
left hand of boy to left on word, nine.
All clap own hands together once, all
clap hands with persons 011 both sides
on word, old.)

Repeat all indefinitely, going faster
and faster. If a person breaks the
rhythm after this is played a few times,
he sometimes is made to pay a forfeit.
Note: This can bc played in couples—--—
four couples number off, with 1-5, 2-6,
3-7, 4-8, as partners. If a person misses
the rhythm, he and his partner leave
the circle.

Suggestion: Whether there is a large
or small circle, it is helpful to num-
her off, one-two, around the circle and
have all “one’s” cross with left hands
while “two’s” cross with right hands.

(See 3 and 4- above.)

Square Dance Has Rhythm

“All American Promenade”— (Sug-
gested by “Doc” Alumbaugh of Alta-
dena, California.)

Record: Windsor 605, or any good
lively march tempo.
Formation—Double circle facing coun-
terclockwise around the room. Part-
ners join hands. Start on outside feet.
Action-"Walk forward four steps,
turning on the last step to face op-
posite direction (turning in toward
partncr) and joining opposite hands.
Walk backward four steps, turning 011
the last step to face original position,
join inside hands. Repeat the step.
Walk forward four steps, clockwise,

turning on last step to face opposite
direction; join opposite hands. Walk
backward four steps, clockwise, turn
ing to face opposite direction on fourth
count.

For the second part, starting 011 out-
side feet, step (balance) away from
cach other (inside hands are still
joined), closc inside foot to outside
foot, step toward each other on inside
feet, close outside foot to inside foot.
Partners exchange sides by having
lady cross in front of partner with
four steps. Lady starts with right foot
and makes one complete turn, counter-
clockwise, as she crosses over. End

'with inside hands joined and stand-

ing away from partner.

For the next step, repeat last move-
ment, but begin by balancing towards,
instead of away from, partners.

Now, using four counts and four
steps (man, left foot; lady, right), the
man leads his partner across in front
of him and over toward his right side,
with his left hand held at chest height.
Thc lady makes a complete right turn,
clockwise. Gcntleman releases lady’s
hand as she goes into turn and steps
diagonally forward to his left to meet
a new partner. His original partner
may turn again while she progresses
towards ncw partner.

Repeat the complete routine indefi-
nitely. The count is: forward 2-3-4-
turn; back 2-3-4- turn (counterclock-
wise) ; forward 2-3-4- turn; back 2-3-4
turn (clockwise) ; away and together;
roll the girl to the center; together
and away; roll girl across and back.

Coffee Grows on \Vhite Oak Trees—
3/4 rhythm, increased to 2/4

Formation—Couples form a ring, fac-
ing the center, which is occupied by
another couple who swing each other
during the first two lines of the song,
as those of the ring join hands and
promenade.

Action———At the beginning of the third
line, the circle halts, and the couple
in center choose two other persons to
make four for a do-si-do swing.

Cohee grows on white oak trees;
Rivers flow with brandy-oh!

Go choose you one to roam with you
As sweet as ’lasses candy-oh!

2/4- rhythm—Chorus:

Four in the middle and you better get
about!

Four in the middle and you better get
about!

Four in the middle and you better get
about!

And roam the earth all ’round-oh!

The do-si-do figure ends with cho-
rus; the couple last chosen remain in
the ring, and the game begins again.
This is a very lively number, its ap-
peal coming from the contrasting po-
sitions of activitity and waiting of the
players—-—any moment one may be
chosen to do-si-do next!

Another verse is:
Pepper grows where sneezes don’t;
’Taters all taste dandy-oh!
Go choose you. one to roam with you,
As sweet as ’lasses candy-oh!

Chorus:

 

Woman

A citizen army . . . two million strong

insure the nation’s health and welfare for the ycar to come.

. . . goes into action in October to

Volunteers in a united campaign to raisc money for some 17,000 RED
FEATHER services, these men and‘womcn will solicit thcir fellow citizens

for contributions to home town agencies and national health and welfare

programs such as those made 11ccessary by the defense effort.

This oncc-a-year campaign by the country’s Community Chests and the
United Defense Fund insurcs thc hcalth and wclfare services so vital to the

entire community.

Volunteer YOUR time now to your town’s

UNITED RED FEATHER CAMPAIGN.

Give

 
 
   

.-

enough!

 
 

. mm: m:
cannunm CHEST

i

 

SEPTEMBER 1952

223

Sgcwwe Dancing

CAN
BE

Someom...5om¢tateaeé

 

time to square their sets, the music and calls

 

With these Square Dance Records with Progressive
Orol instructions and Coils by ED DURLACHER.

Here is the easy and economical way to meet the

ever-growing demand for square dancing in your
community . . . the HONOR YOUR PARTNER

series of square dance records.

A A it
Each record in albums 1 to 4 starts with sim li-

fied progressive oral instructions by Ed Durlae er
—instructions easily understood by dancers of all

ages. F ollowin

a brief pause, giving the dancers
gin. The TOP HANDS, directed

by FRANK NOVAK, offer the best in scintillating and foot tapping s uare dance
music. The calls are delivered by one of the nation's most outstan 'ng squarc
dance authorities, ED DURLACHER.

The fifth album in the series contains music only, without calls or instruetions—

“The Square Dance Caller's Delight".

A A ‘A’
AN ENTHUSIASTIC USER REPORTS . . .

“The square dance album ‘Honor Your Partner' is all that you claimed it to be—we
tried out the records on a group of eighth grade students and they picked u the
instructions without difficulty. in the space of thirty minutes, this group, u'hic had
never square danced before, were doing the figures in an expert fashion. The records
were also a hit at the adult square dance which we held last night.”

Alfred Elliott, Recreation Director, Greenwood, Mississippi

All records gueronteed

ogoinst breakoge,
FOREVERI

DEPT. R-TO

 

HONOR YOUR i’ARiNER

SQUARE DANCE ASSOCIATES

leorn more obout the

HONOR YOUR PARTNER olbunas.
Write for o descriptive folder.

FREEPOR‘I’, NEW YORK

AN EASY WAY TO CLEAN SHOWER ROOMS AND

SWIMMING POOLS
without hard rubbing. Simply sprinkle

 

“ a
e

.I'
a-’

 

WRITE FOR “BERN.

FREE SAMPLE

22%

AF-T-KLENZ 

BERMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY

 "kl [Y- '

j

q
i.
-(..

719 Superior Street

powder on damp sur-
face. mop lightly. and
flush with clear water.
’ltemOves rust stains,
lum- dcposils. soup.
all. body grease and
algae formation.
’Mlnlmlzos condi-
tions that breed and
spread infections
germs. 'llarmlcss to
hands, clothing. Boon,
drains. ’Odorlcss.
There's nolhlnx clu-
hire ill ll works like
II charm even when:
hard rubbing with or-
dinary cleaners has
failed.

Toledo 4, Ohlo

l, ) Please send it" somple ol Saf-T-Klonr.

t' ) Ploose nod quontity prices.

NAME

FIRM
STREET
CITY A. STATE

 

UNITED NATIONS DAY

The seventh anniversary of the day
on which the United Nations Charter
came into existence will be observed
on October twcnty-fourth——oflicial|y
designated as United Nations Day.

As an aid in planning a celebration
for this day, a booklet. UN Birthday
Parties, and a packet of other materi-
als may be obtained free of charge
from the National Citizcns'Committce.
SIG Twenty-first Street NW, Washing-
ton 6, D.C. Order your capy now!

The books listed below are a few of
the many publications, available from
your public library or the publishers.
which will be helpful in developing a
program promoting international un-

dcrstanding.

GAMES THE WORLD AROUND. Sara
Hunt and Ethel Cain. A. S. Barnes
and Company, New York. $3.50.

CIIILnnsN’s GAMES FnosI Mst LANDS,

Nina Millcn. Friendship Press, New
York. $2.00.

THE \VHOlJ-I WORLD SINGING, Edith
Lovell Thomas. (See “New Publica-

tions,” page 312.)

AnoUNI) THE WORLD IN SONG and
SING 1r YOURSELF, Dorothy Gor-
don. E. P. Button and Company,
New York. $2.75 each.

INTERNATIONAL FOLK PLAYS, Samuel
Selclcn. University of North Carob-

na Press. $55.00.

Tm: FOLK COSTUME Boon, Frances
ll. llairc. A. S. Barnes and Com-
pany, New York. Out of Print.

'I‘III: COSTUME Boon, Joseph Looming.
Frederick A. Stokes Company, New
York. $2.75.

DANCE AND BI: MERRY, Finadar Vytau-
tas ficliaj us. Clayton I". Sammy

Company. Chicago. Volume one,
81.50. Volume two, $2.00.

Tm: Anr or CIIINEsE PAPER FOLDING.
Maying Soong. Harcourt. Brace and
Company, New York. $2.50.

HOMEMADE I)oI.I.s IN FonsIcN Dnnss,

Nina ll. Jordan. Harcourt. Brace
and Company, New York. $3.00.

Fuses or ALI. NATIONS, Cleveland 1].
Smith and Ccrtrndc ll. Taylor.
Thomas Y. Crowcll Company, New

York. 33 .50.

lMMIGltANT GIFTS 'ro AMERICAN LIFE,
Allen 1]. Enton. llusscll Sage Foun-
dation, New York. Out of Print.

RECREATION

Basketball

-the Game Way *

IMPLE GAMES with a basketball

help players learn basketball skills
———ease in handling the ball, dribbling,
shooting, passing, guarding, and their
combinations. In addition, such games
can provide fun when the number of
players is either too small or too large
-——for a regular basketball game. Many

of them can be used for local con-
tests.

No Goal Basketball

I’laycrs—Any even numbcr. Field—
Any size field may be used, with boun-
daries on both ends and sides. A line
6 feet past each end is drawn. This
constitutes the end goal zone. Forma-
tion—Players assume any positions de-
sirable.

Games—Regular basketball rules will
be observed, except that no baskets
are used. Scoring is done by players
rcceiving passes over the opponents”
goal line. Two points are scored for
each successfully caught pass over the
goal line. The ball must be caught
in the goal zone. The players may be
guarded in this zone, observing regu-
lar basketball guarding rules.

Fifty Baskets or Lose

Players—Any even number. Field——
One basket, or, if available, two bas-
kcts may be used. Formation—Players
line up behind a starting line twenty
feet from the basket. Two teams are
formed.

Game—Each player in each team in
succession takes a shot from the start-
ing line. The objective of cach team
is to scorc fifty baskets to win.

1. Instead of each player having to

SEPTEMBER 1952

recover the ball after he has shot, the
player next in turn may retrieve it, and
shoot from the spot of recovery. The
game continues until fifty baskets have
been made.

2. The game may be played by two
persons, and, if desired, shots may be
taken from any point at which the ball
is retrieved.

Shoot and Dribble

Players—One or more. Field—One
basket is needed. Formation—Players
line up at forty-five degree angle to
the basket, either left or right side.

Games—Three attempts are given
each man to dribble in from the side
of the basket and shoot with the right
hand. The ball may be balanced with
the left hand, but the impetus to the
shot must be with the right hand.
Three such dribbling shots are taken
from the left side of the basket. One
point is scored for each goal made.

One Goal Basketball or
Half Court Basketball

Basketball played by two to eight
players on a side can afford much ex-
citement and one is more apt to learn
such fundamentals as pivoting, faking
and guarding. Rules are the same as
in a regular basketball game, with the
exception that each side tries for the
same basket and game is started by
one of the players tossing the ball be-
tween two opposing players. Instead
of tapping the ball, players wait until
the ball touches floor and try to rc-
cover it on the rebound. The ball is
tossed up in this manncr on all “jump

balls.” An out-of-bound linc should be

made approximately thirty feet in from
the end zone. After a basket is made,
player on opposing team puts ball in
play from out-of-bound line.

Line Captain Ball

Players—Any even number up to
twenty. Field—A space no larger than
an area forty feet by forty feet will
be satisfactory. Formation—“Two teams
are formed, each of which is placed
in a straight line, parallel to, and fac-
ing at a distance of forty feet. Midway
between the two lines, and equidistant
from each end, two three-foot circles
are drawn, each nine feet apart. A re-
straining line also is drawn for each
team, over which they may not step.
A captain and guard are chosen from
each team. Each captain takes his place
in one of the circles. Each guard takes
his place near the opposing captain.

Game—~The object of the game is
for one team to get the ball into the
hands of its captain. A point is scored
for each successful catch the captain
makes. Fifteen points constitute a game.

To start the game, the ball is given
to the team winning the toss of a coin.
This team will attcmpt to pass the ball
to its captain. Captains must keep one
foot in the circle, and team members
may not pass over the restraining line
which has been drawn. Guards are at
liberty to rove anywhere within the re-
straining lines, but they may not tres-
pass within the’circles of the captains,
nor may they interfere with the cap-
tains.

When a guard intercepts the ball,
he passes it back to his team. Guards
may not pass to their captains. After
every two points of scoring, the cap-
tains and guards exchange places.

Two In and Drop Out

Players—Any number. Field—One
basket. Formation———Players form in
a straight line, approaching basket at
an angle.

Games—Leading man dribbles in for
a short shot. Player next in line re-
covers ball and shoots a short shot.
When two successive baskets are made,
each player who misses thereafter re-
tires to side lines. Game continues
until all have been eliminated.

* From The Carrie Way to Sports. Cepyright
1937 by H. A. Reynolds. A. S. Barnes and
Company. (Out of print.)

225

.I. , a C : ' v s. , gtwlla a. ' r s v s a {
NOW—boys and girls of all ages find 
good reading is go—od fun! 
"*9 v l I

 

CHILDREN'S DIGEST—The best of the old and new—
in children‘s literature—far bays and girls from 5 to 12

CHIlDREN'S DIGEST is a must in every children's Iibraryl Each issue brings 132
colorfully illustrated pages with reprints of the well loved classics—Dickens, Stevenson,
Kipling, Milne, and stories of present day authars, like Bianca, Dr. Suess. Mitchell,
Baum, as well as pages of good camics, puzzles, things to do. Widely acclaimed by
librarians, teachers, parents and boys and girls themselves, it is a delightful,
instructive magazine that makes good reading good funl

1 year (IO issues) $3 2 years (20 issues) $5

HUMPIY DUMPIY‘S MAGAZINE for little children 3 to 7

Here, at last, is a sparkling magazine to delight, instruct and entertain little children.
Designed for the child from 3 la 7, every story and activity in the 132 calarful digest-
size pages will give the child the iay of doing things, and instill a love far good
reading. Each issue will bring Tell-Me Stories, Read-Aloud Stories, Stories for Be’gin-
ners, all by leading children‘s authors, plus ingeniaus pages of coloring, drawing,

cutauls, puzzles, games, stimulating things to do. A treasure for busy little hands
.. . for active little mindsl

Special *(HARIER Subscription Rate
1 year (10 issues) $2.50 (Regular Rate $3.00)

Iluntlt September 30, 1952

COMPACT—the Packet Magazine for Young People
Now published monthly and available by subscriptions!

Each 164 page lively issue will include two condensatians of the best books far young
people, a selection of the best articles, features, fiction, romance, adventure; 0
monthly fashian report and departments on mavies, personalities, careers, everything
that will make COMPACT the counsellor and companion of teen-age bays and girls.

1 year (10 issues) $3 2 years (20 issues) $5

 

  
  
 
 

  

 ’-
PAREHTS’ MAGAZINE—the indispensable reference it?“

for every group worker 
' ' 

Today, thousands of graup workers everywhere use and refer to this practical,
authoritative reference on child care and training. PAIENTS‘ MAGAZINE is the only
publication that cavers the newest trends. the up-ta-date thoughts on the everyday
problems of rearing children from crib to college. Graup workers find so much help
In the impartant articles; the reviews of new books for children and parents; the free
study programs for parents groups. The departments on mavies, recreation, family fun,
make it an invaluable guide for everyone interested In children of any age.

   
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
   
  

O chlld care 0 adelescence 1,.
0 health 0 famllyrelatlens f
O scheeledlustments o (.mmunltyllvln' .'-.
O behavior problems 0 famlly departments '
0 teen ege prehlems en feeds, heme,etc.

    
 

1 year $3 3 years $7
Parents' Institute, Inc., 52 Vanderbilt Ave., N. f. I], N. Y.

2 years $5

     

22f.

lincimnim

 

We live in a con-

«@l‘”

fusing world. Its in-
trouble

 

consistencies
adults, but by virtue of our years of
living and our varied experiences
we can view our problems with a
sense of perspective. Children have
their anxieties, fears and tensions, too
—but to the child they may seem
monstrous. Thc fortunate child who
comes from a good home and a family
where he is loved, and where he feels
secure, gets a “connectedness” with his
world, and the world beyond. This is
basic to his happiness and in this situa-
tion his fears and worries may be but
llccting things.

The child who is pushed out into a
frightening, unknown enviroment is
the one who most needs the help of
all adults in preserving his individu-
ality, in giving him the best equipment
with which to face the world, and in
minimizing his doubts and tensions.
Many children who come from broken
homes—or from ones in which the
situation is detrimental to growth and
development—-—must live in institutions,

MISS DAUNCEY, Katherine F. Barker
.llcmorial Field Secretary for Women
and Girls, is NRA training specialist.

SEPTEMBER 1952

The Value of Play
in Children’s Homes

eithcr publicy or privately supported,
for varying periods of time.

The play experience there, if proper-
ly supervised, can contribute much to
health and happiness, now and in the
future. If his background has been
very bad—and many times it is—his
physical needs must be checked be-
fore he can participate in vigorous
physical activity. If his history reveals
no discernible defects or handicaps,
but his spirit has been bruised, then he
needs much help in learning to get
along with others in order to be com-
fortable and happy in his play.

When nc nrst has a chance to play
with equipment or with friends, his
shyness, loneliness and fear may be
covered up by aggressive actions which
antagonize others. Careful guidance is
called for here, understanding patience
rather than hurried decision to take
away his privilege of playing with
others until he can “learn to behave.”
His emotional needs should be of far
greater concern than his ability to
conform.

Although play activities must never
be regimented, they should be guided.
so that each child is helped to devel0p
physically, to change social attitudes,

Helen Dauncey

and to grow in emotional control.
Adults should consider it a privilege
to have some part in this guiding
process, through which the child may
find himself and learn one of the fun-
damental lessons for successful living——
the ability to get on with others.

Alas! Too many adult staff members
in homes or institutions think of play
periods as added chores. They con-
sider their job in terms of food, cloth-
ing, shelter and the daily routine, and
the other things ean wait.

Since the present trend is to keep
the child in an institution for as short
a time as possible, and to place him
in a foster home, or remedy conditions
so that he may return to his own home,
the time is short at best, and his so-
cial needs are not postponable.

The coined word used by the New
York State Youth Commission is one
which every stall member in a home
should say daily. The word is sarne.
It stands for security, affection, ree-
ognition and new experiences. These
will be achieved by good planning
and personal effort, rather than merely
by large expenditures of money.

For the day-by-day play some per-
mancnt equipment and facilities are
needed. for it is through the use of

227

 it's for a
Gymnasmm .- .

5W

lllDlllll

0 Gymnasium Equlpment
0 Telescopic Gym Seats

0 Basketball Scoreboards

0 Basketball Backstops

0 Steel Lockers, Lockerobos
and GradoaRobos

WWWW

RED MEDART PRODUCTS,IN(.

1566 DE KAlB Sl’ ST lOlllS 18, MO.
 For 78 Years
‘ The Standoldof Quality
v

A Loud Voice a
for Playground Y“

 

    

Control
with

PORTABLE
BATTERY
AMPLIFIER

e
‘1

Weighs only
12 lbs. {including batteries)

Equipped with trumpet speaker, this
powerful set will extend your voice
'3 mi. Trumpet operates l00 ft. from
set if required. (Ease speaker easily
heard in 100le lit. Auditorium.
Compact, sturdy, shock-proof. Crys-
tal mike, standard. long-lasting dry
cells.

Only $89.50

With trumpet $339.50
(‘hntt milla- 57,50 extra

REX Equipment Co.

20” Penn. Ann, Washington I. D.C.

I‘ll

these that physical skills and the ability
to give and take are developed.

Climbing apparatus, swings, slides,
basketball goals. hard surfaee areas
for roller skating and games, level
outdoor play areas, attraetive indoor
play rooms, all supply activity for a
wide range of ages and interests.

Supplies (the expendable items)
should be chosen with the needs of
the children in mind, but in general
should include balls of many sizes,
bean bags, box hoekey, table tennis,
quoits, arts and crafts sapplies, ree-
ords and a record player, game room
supplies feheekers, dominoes, puzzles.
parehesi, and so on) dolls and doll
houses, stuffed animals, books, build-
ing blocks, toys with whieh to play
house or store. tables and benches
built for ehildren, a bulletin hoard,
sand table, pictures, skill games, a
trunk of old clothes for dress up, and
a place for their eolleetions. It is not
enough to supply these things and then
sit back. There must he leadership
with skill and imagination to encour-
age their use and enjoyment.

The very young children will love
pull toys, a paeking box house, sand
box and sand toys, a drain pipe to
crawl through, steps to climb or an
inelined board to run down; and for
indoors- -cigar box building blocks,
milk bottle caps, paper eontainers,
spools and many other everyday arti-
cles which imaginative children or
leaders can put to a variety of uses.

As one visits institutions, the first
step over the threshold gives the clue
as to the kind of plaee it is. it has to
be more than clean and orderly. Some
places, although they may be clean,
are so barren that your heart sinks,
while others have used eolor every-
where; there. are plants and flowers in
evidcnee and the plaees look homey— ~
not like a home. The visages of illllr-r
in charge usually mateh the scenery.

if there is one thing above all
others that an institution child needs,
it is an atmosphere of warmth and at-
tractiveness. both in his physieal sur-
roundings and in the personalities
of those “It” Work with him.

l'nfortunately, some staff peeple, just
as some. teachers, see their job as one
of discipline and order rather than one
of friendliness and a chanec to be. of

serviee. Some have great limitations
when it eomes to entering into physieal
aetivities, hnt they may have skill in
helping to plan soeial programs-“a
holiday observance, a hirthday party,
a pienie or getting up a show. These
are just as important as the games.

Some have the good sense to seeure
leaders in the eonununity to do the
things they know are needed but
whieh they feel inadequate to do them-
selves. If their interest and support of
any aetivity is known by the children.
it matters not who actually does it.

Too many community organizations
and individuals have a twinge of eon-
scienee at Christmas and Easter, with
the result that ehildren’s homes are
usually snrfeited with gifts and food
on these two days. A weekly date to
work with the children—telling stories.
teaehing rhythms, playing games, do-
ing erafts or just heing with them——
would be mueh more lasting and in-
finitely more helpful.

There are potential volunteers in
every community who, if approached
in the right way, would be glad to
help with the program. The pleasure
of the youngsters would more than
repay them for the time and effort
given. It is their time and interest, not
money, that is so greatly needed.

The role of a houseparent in an in-
stitution is not an easy one, any more
than being the mother of a family is
a simple task. It is a round-the-clock
joh, with many little emotionally dis-
turbed souls coming and going.

Some of them have had to eope with
problems that would floor an adult.
For them, the institution is home and
seeurity, for a short period at least.
Every bit of fun and laughter and
good times that it is possible to ar-
range shonld be theirs.

It is my belief that the play and ree-
reation program can be of inestimable
value for all children, if it is varied
enough, if it is done with a spirit
of enjoyment on the part of the leader,
and if it has a deeper aim than just
entertainment.

l'ntil such time as trained leader-
ship is available. most of the activity
umst be handled by the staff, assisted
by volunteers. The results are too far
reaching and too important to allow
it to be a hit or miss proposition.

Itscnsmox

 

1951 Peoria Park
District Survey

113w RECREATION and park depart-

ments give the public an opportu-
nity to share in the deve10pment of
plans for facilities and programs, al-
though the public relations value of
such participation is widely recog-
nized. Therefore, a public survey spon-
sored in June 1951, by the Pleasure
Driveway and Park District in Peoria,
Illinois, is of unusual interest. lts pur-
pose was twofold—to make a quali-
tativc analysis of the district parks and
park facilities and to secure informa-
tion that would enable the park trus-
tees to plan intelligently a program to
encourage the better use of park facili-
ties by more Peoria people.

Using professional resident inter-
viewers, under the direction of Mid-
west Opinion Associates, Peoria offi-
cials presented questionnaires to the
heads of nine hundred homes scattered
throughout twenty districts of the city
and park district extending into the
county. The interviewers, and other
personnel involved in compiling the
survey and report, donated their time.
Every effort was made to insure com-
plete accuracy in the results, and only
proven and accepted techniques were
used in developing the data.

Nearly ninety-five per cent of all re-
spondents indicated that they, or a
member of the family, visited Peoria
parks during the preceding year, and
three-fourths of them go to the parks
weekly, or oftener. More than forty
per cent visit the parks to use the play-

SEPTEMBER 1952

Public "pinion Aids Park Ilffioials

grounds. Baseball, picnics and going
to the zoo, in that order, are the next
most popular attractions. Swimming
was mentioned by only fifteen per cent
of the respondents, but this may be
due to the fact that the interviewing
was done in June before the very hot
weather set in. More than ten per cent
of the families mentioned band con-
certs and floral displays as reasons for
visiting the parks.

Active sports, such as golf, tennis,
swimming and baseball are twice as
popular with the frequent as they are
with the infrequent visitors. This would
seem to indicate that facilities for ac-
tive games encourage regular use of
the parks. Other activities did not show
a significant difference 011 the part of
those who visit frequently as opposed

to those who do not.

More than three-fourths of the re-
spondents indicated that they consider
the parks excellent or fair, the higher
percentage of satisfied park users
being those who go frequently.

On the matter of improvements, one-
half of the frequent visitors could sug-
gest at least one definite improvement,
but only one-eighth of the infrequent
visitors were able to offer suggestions.
Nearly forty per cent of those inter-
viewed suggested improved playground
equipment or picnic areas. Only one-
fourth of the respondents requested an
improved zoo. A miniature golf course
was among the facilities requested on
some of the questionnaires.

Three-fourths of the people go to the
parks by private automobile, the rest
by bus or other tranSportation.

Only one-half of the peeple indi-
cated they would definitely go to Det-
weiller Park to visit a zoo or small
animal farm. Among the wild animals
Peorians would like to see at the zoo,
bears are most popular, followed by
lions, tigers and elephants. Horses are
the most p0pular of tame animals, fol-

lowed by cows and pigs. Monkeys are
the favorite small animal, and pea-
cocks and parrots are the most popular
birds. Only two per cent showed no
special choice of animals, and more
than twenty-five per cent would like
to see all kinds of small animals.

Peoria people are not sure in their
own minds whether the playground
and recreation board is part of the
park system; one-half of the respond-
ents believe it is, twenty per cent feel
that it is not, and the remaining thirty
per cent admit they do not know.

In making decisions, based on this
survey, the importance of the cost in-
volved in the development and promo-
tion of an_ activity must be carefully
weighed. Recommendations offered are:

I. Careful analysis of the play-
ground facilities should be made.
Where feasible, new and improved
equipment should be added and the
number of playgrounds increased.

2. Picnic areas should be carefully
checked as to number and facilities
now available. Addition of picnic areas
in the less popular parks should be
given special consideration.

3. The miniature golf course men-
tioned as an improvement should be
checked into further, and if there is
enough interest, one should be devel-
oped, provided space is available in a
good location. This is especialy im-
portant from a cost standpoint be-
cause, with sufficient interest, such a
project would probably be self-sup-
porting or even profitable.

4«. The present zoo should be en-
larged and improved, if funds are
available. This can probably be done
at a relatively reasonable cost because
of the high degree of interest in small-
er, more common animals. Any ex-
pansion here should be thoroughly ad-
vertised and promoted.

5. Band concerts should be more
highly advertised and promoted.

229

A spha It a. nd Co nere to S u rfaees

0 Many specific questions relating to the surfacing of recreation areas were sub-

mitted to a national committcc on surfacing rccrcation areas, in response to a ques-
tionnaire sent out early in 1931. A number of these, which related to asphalt surfaces,
were referred to the Asphalt Institute in New York City; those relating to concrete,
to the Portland Cement Association of Chicago, Coloncl Walter F. Vintcrs. chief
cngincer of the institutc and Joseph N. Bcll, mauagcr, public relations bureau of
the association, providcd answers which are reproduced below.

1‘8ph8"

Q. “ls it more expensive to resurface badly cracked
and deteriorated paved surfaces or to replace them com-
pletely?”

A. lt is very difficult to define the condition of a surface
which would be more ccouomical to replace than to re-
surface. For example, on a badly cracked concrcte surface
which is broken into comparatively small picccs and is
badly distorted, it would likely not be economical to re-
surface, since the distortion of the concrete might con-
tinue and be reflected through the asphaltic rcsurfacing.
llowcvcr, material of this type can be salvaged as a base.
It can be brokcn aud jammed into the grade with pncu-
matie hammers, capped by approximately four inches of
good granular material and an asphaltic rcsurfacc, about
two inches in thickness, placed on the granular lift with
excellent results. In general, it can be said that it is less
expensive to resurface than it is to GClace a rccrcational

arca.

Q. "What is the best way to resurface clay courts with
asphalt? What kind, foundation, aggregate, and so on?"

A. The clay soils should be rcmovcd, if possible, to a
depth of five to seven inches if a stone type of base is to
be used. A plastic clay, such as is used in tennis courts,
will contaminate a stone base by pulling in and holding
moisture which tends to soften the base materials and
afford« inadequate support to the asphalt surfacing. An
inch of screenings or sand worked into the soil in the
bottom of the excavation will tend to seal out the ground
waters. Four to six inches of granular base, consisting of
crushed stone. slag or gravel, should then be topped by
several inches of asphaltic concrete. It is always advisable
to provide adequate drainage for an installation of this

type.

2'10

Q. “W e have been in the practice of using sheet asphalt
similar to that used on streets but find it tends to crack.
ft is felt that the reason for such cracking is because hearty
tragic is lacking. Our surface becomes brittle and conse-
quently splits. Would rubberized surfacing be our answer?”

A. A heavier penetration asphalt is normally used in
sheet asphalt construction than in asphaltic coneretc. lf
care is not used in preparing the sand mixes. the pene-
tration of thc asphalt may again bc lowered by excessive
tempcraturcs. These conditions may be thc cause of crack-
ing in your sheet asphalt. An asphaltic concrete, using
stonc or gravcl, has lcss tcndcucy to crack than the sheet
asphalt mixes, and if a high sand content is carried in thc
asphaltic concrcte mix. a dense. smooth surface can be
provided which is very similar in appearance to the sheet
asphalts. In addition wc should never lose sight of the
fact that maintenance of SOIIIC type is necessary from time
to time to reduce the cracking condition. The time to seal
an asphaltic surface can be determined only by inspection.
However, in some locations it may be advisable to seal a
surface within five to cight years after its original instal-
lation.

Q. “We use a blacktop area for an ice rink and games
area—“Ice have some cracking of the asphalt. Do others
report damage from ice rink construction?"

A. It is doubtful if thc fact thc area is used as an ice
rink would have any particular, detrimental effect on the
asphaltic surface. It is possible that some craeking may
occur in the surfacing. If these cracks are sealed and rou-
tinc maintenance provided, it should serve satisfactorily
as an ice skating rink. provided the original construetion
was adequate.

ltecnanros

Q. “ls there any way one can limit the seepage of water
from a flooded blacktop area, to better facilitate ice frcez-
ing for skating?”

A. Apparently the area referred to is either a porous
mix or it is cracked to some extent. 11] either case, a seal
constructed by spraying the entire surface with about 0.2
gallons per square yard of an RC4 or 5 and covered with
coarse sand or stone chips will solve the problem of seep-
age.

Q. “We have a new asphalt multiple-use area, two liun-
rlretl feet by one hundred eighty-nine feet, with a spray
painted surface. The paint gives a good surface for shudle-
board, roller skating, or dancing, but tennis and basket-
ball players say it is too slick. The winter freezing chips
the paint some. Can you get a smooth surface without
slickness? Is there a way to eliminate repaintings? Is
there an engineering minimum on subsurface drainage?
(W e went to considerable expense on this. )”

A. A number of multiple-use areas have been constructed
in the country on new asphaltic concrete, using the plastic
type of paints. These paints are often applied with a
squeegee in a multiple course of application. The first
coats are normally filler coats which tend to fill up the
small voids in the surfacing. Color coats are then applied
followed by several clear coats of plastic paint. This
method of finishing a multi-use area seems to be quite
satisfactory, and provides a surface, if dry and not waxed,
which can be used for tennis and basketball. A periodical
repainting with a clear coat of paint will likely be nec-
essary.

ll is virtually impossible to say what the minimum
amount of suhdrainage installation would be on any par-
licular construction. The type of soil is usually the govern-
ing factor. 111 an open, free draining soil, little or no sub-
drainage installations are necessary.

Q. “What is the best method of retarding the :nclting
of ice on asphalt courts flooded for use as skating rinks?”

A. The application of sand is probably as effective as
any other material. However, portland cement can be ap-
plied, or a thin wash of either lime or cement. lf sand
is used, it need not be applied to a thickness of greater
than one to one and one-half inches. The depth of the
water over this sand should be maintained at not less
than two inches at the crown of the court.

Concrete

Q. “Is it more expensive to resurface badly cracked and
cletcriorated paved surfaces, or to replace them com-
pletcly?

A. It will probably be more expensive to replace the
concrete, but you will almost certainly get greater returns
from the money invested. If the pavement is badly cracked,
as described, then the subbase is probably to blame. Re-
surfacing does not correct a bad subbase, and the crack-
ing may eventually occur in the new surface in approxi-
mater the same locations. While the initial cost will be
greater to remove the cracked pavement, correct faults in

SEPTEMBER 1952

the subgrade and place new concrete, in the long run it
will pay off in longer service life and reduced maintenance
and repair bills.

Q. “W c would like to use the concrete areas for roller
skating but have not solved the problem of the expansion
joints interfering with the skates.”

A. Normally expansion joints are not recommended in'
roller skating rinks, as this type of joint usually creates
a bump, or the sealing material adheres to the wheels of
the skates. Brass dividing strips, to allow for contraction
only, are recommended.

But where existing concrete built for other purposes is
employed for roller skating, it is recommended that this
be done: remove all joint sealing tar or asphaltic material
to a depth that will permit bond between the concrete and
new sealing material; following recommendations of the
manufacturers" of asphalt-rubber composition, thoroughly
clean the crevice of foreign matter and fill with the new
material to surface level; make sure that the joint is water-
tight and that the composition is not extruded.

Q. “Interested in concrete tennis court construction with
curb built around the courts so they can be flooded to pro-
vide ice skating in winter.”

A. It is hardly necessary to say that repeated cycles of
freezing and thawing are severely punishing to any type
of pavement, and surface scaling sometimes results. It
has been only in recent years that an answer to this prob-
lem has been developed by the portland cement industry.
Air-entraining portland cement is now used by nearly all
northern states in building concrete pavement resistant to
“frost action” or repeated cycles of freezing and thawing,
and to the action of chemicals used to melt pavement ice.

But this in itself is not a recommendation that a tennis
court pavement be intentionally subjected to such punish—
ment. A tennis court with a true surface costs a good deal
of money, and should be well protected, not endangered.
Without sermonizing, making such courts into double-duty
pavement may well be a case of “penny wise and pound
foolish”. The added winter income may be largely ex-
pended in spring and summer repairs, and by loss of in-
come during resurfacing or replacement operations.

However, if the primary purpose of the court is for ice
skating, and the tennis court of secondary importance,
then air-entraining portland cement should by all means
be used to make the concrete. Where air-entraining port-
land cement is not available, an air-entraining admixture
should be used. In addition, all joints should be thoroughly
caulked before flooding. A marshy subgrade is a serious
hazard to pavement of all types, even concrete, which has

I"The following are names. of companies known to be producing
asphalt-rubber composition. It is suggested that they be contacted
for comments as 10 whether their products will serve the specific
purpose mentioned.

“Para lastic,” Servicized Products Corporation, 6051 West 65th
Street, hicago 38, Illinois;

“Carcylastic,” Phillips-Carey Company, Lakeland, Cincinnati,
Ohio; and

“Scalz,” Dispersion Process, Incorporated, Rockefeller Center,
New York City.

231

strength to bridge small weak spots. When water seeps
through joints to freeze beneath pavement, serious dam-
age can result.

A well-designed court of air-entrained coneretc. pro-
tected against seepage of water into the subgrade, will
probably give many years of excellent service in the dual
role suggested.

Q. “We built tennis courts with curb around for ice
skating, but alternate freezing and thawing broke oh the
‘slcin eoat.’ Patching places where surface was broken
proved unsuccessful. How should we resurface these
courts?"

A. (See previous question.)
A “skin coat” is more or less useless for pavement sub-

cleaned and roughened with a scarifying tool to assure
good bond between new and old concrete. Three inches
of air-entrained concrete reinforced with welded wire
fabric weighing at least seventy-eight pounds per one
hundred squarc feet is recommended. Expansion joints
should he placed in the resurfacing directly over any ex-
pansion joints in the old slab, and the grooves tightly
sealed.

Q. “What are best colors to reduce sun glare on game
courts?”

A. Green. Various shades of brown and black seem to
he among the most popular colors for stains. As to use
of such preparations, the directions of the individual manu-
facturers should be followed. They will undoubtedly be glad

jected to repeated cycles of this type.

to render advice on colors and application.

The surface of the existing court should he thoroughly

PiOPlE All) EVENTS . . .

Mrs. Sigmund Stern, member of the
recreation commission for over thirty-
three years, was recently awarded an
honorary membership in the Califor-
nia Recreation Society—in apprecia-
tion of her magnificent record of serv-
ice in public recreation. She has been
appointed and re-appointed by four
San Francisco mayors.

V. W. Flickinger, chief of the divi-
sion of parks in Ohio, and Frank I).
Quinn, chairman of the Texas state
parks board and president of the Na-
tional Conference on State Parks, were
awarded the Cornelius Amory I’ugsley
silver and bronze medals, respectively,
for outstanding service in park work.

The Virginia Recreation Associa-
tion's first layman's Award for service
to community recreation, went to Matt
C. Iluppnch of Arlington.

An editorial honoring Guy I.. Shipps
was published in the Midland Daily
News fMiehigan) on March 17, 1952.
The editorial rceognized the many
years of outstanding public service
which Mr. Shipps has devoted to his
community.

John .I. Considine, chairman of the
ill-service training connnittec for the
American Institute of l’ark I'ixeeutivcs.
and general superintendent of the De-
troit Department of Parks aml Recrea-
tion. attended the Olympics at IIeIsinki
in July. “This will give me an oppor-

212

tunity to study the physical arrange-
ments and confer with the authorities
in Helsinki on the various ways in
which these facilities can be adapted
to multiple use,” he said before Ieav-
ing. “My visit will not limit me to
IIeIsinki, for I expect to tour other
EurOpean countries and see what they
have to offer in the line of public rec-
reation.”

Mr. Considine is on the committee
planning the convention hall and ex-
hibits building in the Detroit Civic
Center. Any ideas derived from his
European visit will be incorporated in
these strnetures.

. . . 'I '

Gilbert I.. Skutt, sUperintendent of
parks in Los Angelcs since July 1936.
retired May 1, 1952. He was head of
the Pasadena I’ark Department from
1923 until assuming the Los Angelcs
post. Mr. Skull supervised the building
of thirty-two new I.os Angeles play-
grounds. ninc swimming pools, the
IIoIIywomIIand Cirls’ Camp, and the
improvement of fifty older play-
grounds. IIe was the first president of
both the \Vcstern Shade Tree Confer-
ence and the California Society of the
Institute of I’ark I‘ixeentivcs. Ile has
served terms as vice-president and
president of the National Institute of
Park I‘itecutives, and was on the board
of directors for many years.

Arthnr l'i. Demaray, director of the
National Park Service from April to
December, 1931, retired after forty-

eight and one-half years of service
with the federal government. Ile has
received the Cornelius Amory Pugsley
gold medal, for outstanding contribu-
tions to the park field.
'I It . I '
Obituary Notes

Weldon B. Wade, executive secre-
tary of the American Institute of Park
Executives, from August 1950 until his
death in June of this year, was super-
intendent of recreation in Sycamore,
Illinois, from 1937 to 1941, and was
in community organization work for
the Federal Security Agency from
1941 to 19-16. Mr. Wade was gradu-
atcd from the National Recreation As-
sociation School in 1935.

Arthur Rindge Wendell, president,
until his death last May, of the Wheat-
ena Corporation of Rahway, New Jer-
say, was interested for many years in
the development of a chain of parks
for Union County, New Jersey. .‘I‘Ir.
Wendell was an original membcr of
the park conunission, formed in 1921
to convert swamps and abandoned
farm areas into park grounds, and
served as chairman for two terms.

I’nul Nelson, author of “A Matter
of Life or Death." which appeared in
Ritcmzntox. March, 1952. died before
he could see his article in print. Dedi-
cation of a swimming pool in Santa
Maria, California, has been proposed
to honor .\Ir. Nelson’s eontribution to
swimming safety and sport.

Recnssrms

Personnel

0 The National Recreation Congress
is only a few days away and if you are
planning to attend you may want to
take advantage of the several special
features related to personnel. These in-
clude:

I. Job Mart—If you are an em-
ployer seeking qualified professional
leaders, fill out the job card, giving
brief but essential information about
the position available and advising
how prospective candidates can meet
you for a personal interview. Also,
you may want to check the companion
file for candidates, to see what candi-
dates are registered and available for
your type of position. Professional
leaders in attendance and available for
positions will fill out the candidates
card and place it in the file for those
available for positions.

II. Registration for Placement -—
Registration blanks will be available
at the Congress. They may be filled out
and placed in the confidential box pro-
vided for that purpose. These applica-
tions will be collected and brought
back to headquarters for processing in
the usual manner. The applicants will
be classified and added to the active
list.

Those professional leaders who are
not necessarily available or looking
for positions find it desirable to have
their professional records on file at a
central place. These may be referred to
confidentially for special assignments
or in times of emergency. Sometimes
positions seek the worker. Recently, a
representative searching confidentially
for an outstanding candidate to fill an
unusual position observed an individ-
ual at a conference. He was impressed
and, upon speaking to thc pcrsou,
found him to be interested. This pros-
pect was eliminated latcr when, upon
request, we were not able to provide a
set of ercdcntials for him along with
the professional personncl records of
other experienced candidates.

IlI. National Roster—This is a sep-
arate defense project and should not
be confused with registration for em-
ployment, membership in the associa-
tion or with any other listing. It has

SEPTEMBER 1952

no relationship to other personnel
projects, and all recreation and park
leaders are included, whether their
names appear on other types of lists
or not.

It would be vital that the recreation
leadership of the country be made im-
mediately available to the armed forc-
es and civilian war recreation pro-
grams in the event of an all-out war.
This would require a great expansion
of recreation service practically over-
night. A major disaster might mean
that the welfare of your citizens would
require additional and immediate as-
sistance from your own recreation
sources, backed up with whatever help
is available. For example, should thou-
sands of children be housed in tem-
porary shelters, you would need more
story-tellers, music or game leaders or
other types of Specialists. At this point,
the association could tell your local
olhcials where such leaders are and
how to reach them. Recreation must be
prepared for this sort of emergency,
although we hope it will never happen.

The National Roster is the only way
by which the members of the recrea-
tion profession could be immediately
mobilized on a nation-wide basis for
this tremendous recreation job. If you
have not already done so, we urge you
to be prepared by enrolling on thc Na-
tional Roster. We are eager, also, that
you urge your entire professional staff
to enroll. It would be particularly im-
portant to be able to reach program
and other staff specialists quickly in
such an event.

Out of loyalty to the profession, all
park and recreation personnel should
be registered. This is the first attempt
to establish a national roster for rec-
reation and park personnel. Recreation
is probably the only major profession
that does not know the status of its
own leadership. This is an embarrass-
ing admission. We know something
about the total number of leaders, but
we do not know about the types of lead-
ers. We do not know the number of
playground leaders, the number of
community center leaders, the number
of general supervisors or the number

W. C. Sutherland

of specialists for such major activities
as music, drama, crafts and nature. .
Registration with the roster will sup-
ply this information, which is impor-
tant to all of us, in both war and

peace time.

Facilities and material are available
at the Congress for registering with the
roster. Won’t you please register be-
fore you leave the Congress, or
promptly after you return to your re-
spective cities? Also, we are depend-
ing upon you to see that members of
your staff stand up to be counted
and to see, also, that they register. The
roster will never be complete without

them.

Colleges Reporting Major Curriculams
in Recreation

It will be noted, in the following
table, that there has been a sharp dr0p
both in the number of colleges report-
ing and the number of students being

MOVIES

FOR
RECREATION

I PROGRAMS J

Arts and Crafts
Entertainment
Sports

 

Good films stimulate active
recreation programs. We have
more than 1,400 films, includ-
ing 120 free films, many in full
color.

 

347 Madison Avenue
New York 17, N.Y.

233

O

~3qu What We Need !"

...the universal comment of the
Recreation Directors at the Na-t’l
Recreation Association Conven-

I tion in Boston . . .when they saw

and heard . . .

 
    

Med ei
RP-43VC
$269.95

1% Wage

Rek-O-Kut’s All-Speed, Portable,
Indoor-Outdoor Phonograph

.ycs.  l'tle N336”. because:

0 The RHYTHMASTER. In addition to playing eil
your 33%. 45 end 78 R.P.M. records at their
normal speeds. is the eniy phonograph avail-
a-hie that aliens you to play ANY recerd at
ANY speed which best meets the erect re-
quirements ot teecher end pupiii

0 By piugging e microphone Into input pro-
vided. the recreation director can super-
impose his voice over the selection being
played end accent the record with personei
comments and instructions.

0 success: Powertui empiitter end speaker
eccommodetes 1000 peopie in eudltorlum.
gymnasium. baiiroom. etc.

0 001030": Simply plug your trumpet speak-
ers directly into the RHYTHMASTER tor use
on athietic lieids, etc.

3 EDUfATl’O'NAL TOOLS IN ON:
t—A tuii range iii-H phonograph

2—A '. A. system {when microphone is

plugged In )

3—A til-H rodie receiver {when used with
year AM or IM turner)

‘

‘-C.C-.-..C-CCCOCO-COCO...

Write ter new 1552 cataiog et lttt-o-ttttt
instruments ter the educatienat held.

    

2'”

It the NITIOHIL IECIUTTOH CWRESS

Ieeth Ne. 10. Olympia ttetel, Seattle.
Sept. 29th thre Oct. 3rd

nerc-o-scur co.

_..0‘ .T I "J‘ -'I.I

Personnel (continued)
graduated. The thirty-nine schools re-

porting major curriculums in recrea-
tion for 1952 represent a decrease of
fourteen over 1951. Compared with
the preceding year, the 565 students
expected to receive recreation degrees
in 1952 indicate a loss of 127 poten-
tial leaders.

This decrease in the number of rec-
reation leaders being trained by col-
legcs and universities would not be
quite so disconcerting if it meant bet-
ter selection and more careful screen-
ing of those being admitted into the
professional recreation curriculums.
Unfortunately, this is not the case at
some schools. By the middle of May,
less than half of the schools reporting
students available had been visited.
However, some of those were not par-
ticularly inspiring, with one-third to
one-half of the students interviewed
obviously unsuited for recreation lead-
crship. 0n the more optimistic side,
we are pleased to report that other
schools visited were able to maintain
both quantity and quality, with prac-
tically every student placcablc in some
type of leadership position.

The general situation indicates the
urgent need for a nation-wide syste-
matic recruiting program for the pro-
fession. Outstanding student leaders in
high school graduating classes must
he acquainted with the Opportunities
for recreation leadership, and encour-
aged to attend colleges and universi-
ties with acceptable professional rec-
reation curriculums. The schools must
have a larger pool of more promising
prospects from which to choose those
to receive professional preparation.

The association’s Advisory Commit-
tee on Recruitment, headed by Mrs.
Verna chsvold, Superintendent of
Recreation, Kansas City, Missouri, is
working on the problem and will un-
doubtedly come up with practical ideas
and recommendations. Suggestions
from others will be most welcome. The
college recreation session at the Con-
gress this year will deal exclusively
with recruiting and selection. The
problem is urgent, and it is hoped that
forward progress will be rapid in this
important phase of personnel work.

New Training Program
Illinois University announces a new
graduate recreation training program
starting in September 1952, leading to
a Master of Science in Recreation. It
will be under the direction of Charles

K. Brightbill.

Personnel News
Marvin Rife has been appointed di-
rector of research and general super-
visor for the camping program of the

Herald Tribune Fresh Air Fund in
New York City. Dr. Cliff Hutchins of

the NIiA’s planning and survey service
will succeed Dr. Rife as director of the
professional recreation curriculum at
Wisconsin University.

Gerald Burns has resigned as execu-
tive director of the American Camping
Association.

F. V. D. Gustafson is now superin-
tcndcnt for Montgomery County,
Maryland. E. T. McGowan succeeds
him as superintendent of recreation,
Detroit.

 

W. C. SUTHERMND is director of recre-
ation personnel service of the NRA.

RECREATION CURRICULUMS AND DEGREES REPORTED BY U.5. COLLEGES iN T952

 

iCaileges and Universities

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Number oi Degrees

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Oilering: Awarded in 1952
Total Number ',
National Recreation Under- at Colleges | i  l
Association graduate Graduate  Reporting Maiar .

Ditirict MOIOI' Moior Curriculumsin ' l TOTAL TOTAL
Curricu- Curricu- Recreation ‘ Bachelor Graduate 1952 1951
iamsln lums in '

Recreation | Recreatian v
New England i i i l ' 18 l 5 l 23 27
Middle Atlantic 5 5 5 38 73  iii 173
Southern 9 3 9 59 8  67 100
Great Lotus 11 s 11 ° iBO . 70 250 i 251
Midwest i O i 4 l O 4 26
Southwest 1 1 i 9 I a 13 to
Pacific Sauthwest 9 I 9 73 I 13 86 l 65
Pacific Narthwest 2 0 7 it ' 0 ll 3‘
TOTAL 39  19 39 392 l 173 I‘ 565 692

 

Itecnmrtox

_--.“-‘—“—v— ————-...-

.555: mogm ::::5 :::: :5 mn:::. >3: moo: :01:5:.:m :::: 5:: :05 :55:.
:::: ::::05:. ::: 5:5::: ::.5 ::05: 5:55:75 50:0:.: 0: ::::5 200:5. 0:::
0:5 :55 0: 5::.:05::m :5 :55:5: :0:. 200:. ::5 9:9. 0: :::51::m.
5:5: :.5:::: :0:. :0:.5mm::m. :5: :5 £00: 0: 255:: :5 :01:: :m 51::
::::5m :5:<5m :::5: 0: 0:5 :::5 0::: 5:0:: 0:. ::::05:. :::E: :0 ::050:.:0
555:: :::3 5::.:05::m: :::5 :05: :«0555 0: :00::.:. :0:.5mm::.5 :5: :05
::::0::5: 5::5:. :::: 5530::m 0: :5 :0: :00::.:. 0:. :0:: ::::m : ::55:::::5::
:::.5mm.

.720 :55: 55:55::5: m:::::0:5 :0:. :5:: :01:::m 0: £00: ::.5 ::::55
:0:. :::ar::m ::.555 ::: ::::5 :: :::.rm 0:. ::0:m :::::.5 ::::m. ::: 50:-
:55 :::0:5 0:. m:::::::. :::::: :::0:5 90:05 ::: 535. ~55 :::: 5.5::“ ::5:
:::.n :m ::0:.0:m::::: ::::u :5 :0 ::::m:: 2:: :: 5:5: :20 50:5 0: 5:5::. ::50-
::0: :0:.00: 5535:: 0:. ::5:::5:. 0: : 5:05 8::“ ::: :20 50:5 0: 5:5::.
55:55 0:. <::.::m:: 0: :::::5m.

:w:m:5m: :0 :0:.0::55 0: ::: :5 :5:: :0:.::::m 55:55:55 :5 5:539. :01::-
::ml0: ::::5H. 3.00: 0:. :::015. :: ::5 3:5 0: 3.01: ::0: :5: 8651.
55:: ::.55:::. ::: :0:.: :05 :5::m::5: 3.1:: ::0::. 0::: ::mo:::::m :::0<:-
:95.

O: ::::05:.. :55 :0055:. 50:0:.: 0:. :15.
O: 3.00:. 5:0::5H :::: 50:05: 0:: ::::5. 0:. ::::5: :0055:. ::::r

::5 ::055: ::::51 50:0:. 0: 3.00: :m :05:.::::5:: :: :8: 3.1:: :0 ::::
055:. 1: 3:5: ::0:.0:m::::: ::::o :1:: 5:5::. m:5:::5. 535:. 0:. «.5357.

O: :::015. :5 5:5:5 3:353 5:: :05 :55: :m :: 50355 ::.0:: :5 50:.
::::5:.“ :: ::0: :55 : :0H:m::. :: :5 55555:? :0 :::: 50:3 :0:. :55 ::: :
5:03: m:: 0H 5:05:55?

:8: ::.:.::m5::5::m ::.5 55:5: :::; 1: ::::55 0: :5 :::51:: 5:55:
::: :::: 5:03:55: 045:. :5:: :0 ::::5 : ::5m::<5.. :15 0:::5: :0::
:5 5:03:55: ::.5:.

::::0:5:5:5 ::.5 ::::05. > 55:55: ::::5: 0:8 : ::.:::5 0: :0::. ::::5
:55: 0: 200:. 303015353: 0:5 ::5:: :0:: 0:5 ::5:: :::: :0::. :55:“
:55: 0:5 0: :5 ::05: 55325 80:5. ::::m :: 0:: :00:::0:.:m:: :::: ::
::::5: 3:353. mon::0 :::: ::: :0:.:: 0: ::5 5:55: ::::5 ::0::::m ::
:0::. 0:. ::55 15:55 ::005 :55: 5:: 0:. :5:<5m. > ::::5 5: m::.:::5:.
£015 ::55:<... ::mo. :0:: :.5a::::.5m 30:5 ::::555 :5: :5 :::: 55:55:,
:0:. :5 mo~::0:0::m ::.5: :5 50 :::::5: :5: :5 ::W 55:51:: :5 : :0: 50:5
:::.5::: :0 50:50:. 3:? 3:955 ::: ::::555. 20:25:. :01:::m :5::m
:55: 5.5:: :0 :5 :55 0: 55:5: 50:05. >: 30855:. ::: :3: :::.:m:: 5::
::50 :5 :55: :0:. ::.:m:5 5:555: 0:. :.:::::::® 0: :5 50:0:. 2:: : 5:0::
m:<5m 5:355 <:1::0:. ::5 :0:.0555 275:: 5:: :05 ::::5 :33 510::
::::m 0: :55: :01:::m ::.5 :::::::::5:: 9:15:55 5:2; 2:: 20:25:. :5-
am: 0: ::::5 :5:5: 0:. 55:3. :1me ::::5m 0: 52:5 55:7 0:. 55::
:01:5: :::: :::.m5 :.::::0::.:0 5:55... :0:m m:5::5:. @5555: 0:. : 50575:.
:0: 0: 5:55: ::::.5::::5:: :::::0 :55? ::0:::::: m::: :<:.:m:::::m ::::05:.m
::: 55:0:533 :::0:::m 0: :05:: <5m55:0: :m : m:::::5:. 555:: 30:55:“
::: 50 0:.

::J: :5 5:55 275:: :55 :055: :m5: ::: ::.5.:0: ::::mm5: ::: m:<5
25:: :0:. ::::5 :55 :m :550:.::0:m :0:. :::.J: 5:055. m5 :05—5:555 :::

::405. 0:. :m ::5:.5m::m ::: 50:0:.::: :1::::::mm :0:. :::m. :0:::5::
303:5 ::: :00555.

(Fold Buck)

5.55:5: Ti. 5.:-

h~== ::::3:

   

53:5 N-.~.= Km=m\1n0: :::0155. 200:. ::5.
::: ::: ::::m5:. 0: :0:1m|::: ::0::::m 0: :5::
:551m:m ::: ::::m5:. ::: 55:55:55 ::.5 50:0:.:::
:52 <:1::0:m 0: :: 0:: :::. ::: ::.5 5:51:05:
:: :5::::. :::: ::::J: ::::m::.::0:mu 1: 23:2:
:::.ma::.:m :0:: 0:1: ::: :5:: <:=:m5:0:..*

O

:: 9:9. :0 :0 :5:: :01:::m 0: :::015. :6: :::m: :55:

C: 3.55:: m:.55: :5:<5m|:..5:<5m :::: :5m::5 :5:::5::0: ::: <5::::::m
::.5 :5 :05m:. ‘25 ::::.::5:. 5:55 :1: :<::::m:::: m5<5:.:: m5::::.:5 50:01:mm
:::: 5::.5::: ::::::::m: :0:: :: :m :::.:m::::5 :0 :::55 25:5:53 :0:. 5:51.
E5535?

:5 :..::0:.:5l|‘:.::0m5 275:: :055: :::05 :5 :5::.m 55:: 5:: <5::::m
::.5 5500:: :::.::55: ::: 5:0m5::: 5:::::.5:.

::: :w:.::.5:.l‘:.:::m :::m: :05 : 50:: :.::0:05:. :01:5n,m :0:.::5:.u :5 : ::::.:
:.0::5:. :::: 55:5 :5:: ::::mmP

EL W0::::m m::.::55IIO::mm. :::50::5. 55:55: 555: 0:. :::: 0::5:.
:3: 5300:: m::.::55 :m m:::::0:5.

Am: 552:5 :::a 0:. 50:0:.ldm5 0::: ::5 :055:. : 55::5 :01m:.:5:: m::::-
:0:5 :0:. 505:: :01:::m. 3.75:: 5:: :05 :55: :::.55:::. ::::05 :::::::m.
> ::::525 ::::5 :0:. :::x::m ::: m:0:.5::::m ::: :::: ::::3 :0:.:m:5m :0:.
:0:5::::m ::0 :1: :35 :55:::.

:3 :50 @1555: 0: :55:0 ::::5 5::.:05::m ::: :20 :00:n:m :: :5:m: 35:45
:::: 5:m::55: ::5:5ml|:w0::.:m m::0::: :05 ::.55 0: :::: €::.:.:::m.

:3 :0:::: :::::5:.. 0:: Sm: ::: 5:35:55.

m5: :0:: 55:00 :5 ::5:_:0: 0: :::.055:::.5 ::::

A: 3:57 :::015 ::0:.0:m::::: ::: 1:55 25:.

B: ::::5 5:: 5::M::::: :::E:“ :3: 0:: ::: 21:58.

:3 ::::m:: ::.55:: M55: 5545: ::.55 0: ::: :0:.51m: :0::.::5:5m.

:::: 0:50:05 :.0::. 50:0:. 0:. 50:0:.? ::: 3:555 : m::::: :::0::: 0:
55:5 Em:5:n 0:8 0:5 50:.:5:. 0: :5 :.0::::m :::.::55. ::: :::m : m::mm
m::.::55: ::::55 ::::5 ::::5H :05:5::: :: :0 :55: 5.55 5:5 50:0:.:

t><:::::0:5 ::.0:: $4055: >2 m5:.<:55. ::5; :::: :::: F595: 35:57.

0::::0n:::. m:.oo.

3H1DB>4.\)7. GIFrIII—JII 40nd

an:....-..-....._

 
 

....00:.m 0:... 0 0. 2000;002:000. 0.. .00.: 2000. 0.... .2000. :0 20.50.. 0....
00.: m..m.m02 6.020. :0 m:2:.0.. .00. :. 00 00020000.... 0.0.00 0... min...

.3:.0.. m:.mon...0 .002:02. .0m 0.
00200 :. .0w20 0. 0m20 £00. 00 .00:000 0. 00:000 .:00. 00.2.0 ....0.0 .0
000... 0.m:.m 0 2.0. 0. 03.0000 00.0 m. .. .m0....0...0.. 000...... 0... m...u.D

000.000 200.. 0.... E00. 0.00.0 00..
.200 000.. 0. .00: :. .0: :02... 0.... mi... 0.. 2.09.0 00..00m. .0.0.0.20.:.:.
000.000 m:...00 2:0 00.00.. :00.0 .0200 2:: 00:...... ....0.. m:.mD a:

.200: 2.05m...
.22.. .000 ...... 0.:.... .m...m:000... 00.. 0. 0.0.0. 20....0... ...0..< A”...

.0000...
.030: 0.:0 0002 2:0 00000. 000500 3.0.0000 000000.... ....>/ A»:

.:.....0: 00 0.0.2.. 00. :0 .... 60.00.... ..02
£02.: 0 .25, .m:..0..000 0.... 2:0 2000.. 00. 000500 3.0.0000 3..

H.200: 0.. 0.0.: .. 630.2000 0. 0000.. .00.:0..00...
0 .3 0020.. 0... 202...... ...w.00. 000:. 0.... .2002. 00. 0.:0 £020.:
02.0 0: .2... 0000000.. E002 2:0 0.... :000 :0 ......0 £2.22 ..0.m Am...

 

   

(Fold Along This Una)

0.0.00.2: .0 .:0..:000:. .00...m..m 0.0.... 0.
.0: .:.0000 w:.0.. .000: 0. .:0E0m:0000 002:0
.... 2:0 .00. :0 2000.. 2:00.00 0000... 3.:

0.020.
0... 0.... 0.00.0:0.. 00.00 0... 000.05 00:000....
002:: ...0...... 000.000 0...... 0... 0. .. ..:00.0.
.00. ..0..0....2:0m 0... 0000 ......02 0.... $320..
.000 .0 000... 2:000... 000... 0.20.0000 3...

200.00
000000 2009.0 0. .00. 0000 ...0.0 .:0..00.m..0 00
£0.00: 00...... 000... .2. .8000. .0 002.0 20:.00
3.000.. .00.: 0... 0..:0 00.00 .200.u.02 m. :0...
000...... 0:0 ...:0 .3 ..:0.::.n_...0 .00....0... :.
.00.. 0... 0000 .:...02 000. .Aw:..:0:..00..0.0 ..
.:.0...0:. 0.0..0. .0 000... 2:00.... 000... AN...

0:207.
..00. 00.: .. m0 .2000...00 :09. 00.. .. 00..0 .00.
0 000.... .0: on. 0:02.02. .0:.m.00 :. 000...
.00 2:0 .:0.:0m:0000 :. 00000. :0 0.:— A...

72:02 w:.:.0.0 .:00. 0....

000... 0. 000000.... .0 0.0.... 0 00.... ..:0:.0w.:00

.00 .0.0. 0... :0 :0...m0.. .0:.w.00 0.. 0.:. 0.00..
000... 2:0 .00. 20v.:. 0.0.0.0500 2... 8..

.00...

.02.0 00.20 0... 0.:. 2:0 0000 .00. :0... £20
-000...:. :.:.0...0...:02: 0 m:......: .. .3.

.2000.00 .h..:0.0..=:u.
m. .00. ...:: ..00.00 2:0 00.00.. 2... .m...:.00
0... m:....0..0. .....:0 000.0000... 000 :. .. 0000
00.00.. ..00 2:... 009.2 000. ......0 ....:0... :87.
2.0.. 600.000. m.....00 :0 .00. .00... 000... 1...

7.20.000 0.. .:0:.
.0w:0000 .2:.. 0.0..0. 0... m:...:.. .:.....0: 00..
-0... 0 :0 0:02 0.. 0.0.: m:....0.:.00..w.m.. .00.0.
000.. :0 2000... 2:0 20.... .2. ..0.: m:.... 0.0....
.0... 00 .m:..0..000 002:: 0. 2000.. 0.5 .0000...
.0 ...0.:0m:0000 .0.0. 0 00.0.: 2:0 A... 02.0 0....
2:22.000 .0 000... :2... 0.0..0. 000... An.

.m..2000 :000 :22 0 .2... 2000.0...
0. 00.00.. ...:: 2:0 ..0:0.......m..00 .300. 0. :00
2:0 00.00.... ....... ...:000 00.00 2000mm 3.

200.002 0. 00.00 202:0... .. .0..:...
2.0.0.. ....... 000.00 000:. 00 0.... a...” .m.

 

Recreation Salaries

ChartI MEDIAN RECREATION SUPERINTENDENT SALARIES

mm
Za-I'

_I‘
.5

0|"
Eli”
L!

In the recreation profession, as in many other fields of
endeavor, we face continuously the problem of recruiting,
training, placing and retaining personnel who will be re-
sponsible, eflicicnt and competent in accomplishing the
objectives of the organization and the movement—in this
case, provision of one of the most intimate, personal
services of city government.

This report was prepared for use by the National Rec-
reation Association’s National Advisory Committee on Re-
cruitment, Training and Placement of Iiecrcation Person-
nel', and for use by the association in its defense-related
recrcation personnel scrvices. It deals with some of the
basic conditions of employment which affect both thc rec-
reation authority and the professional recreation workcr.
Salarics, cost of living adjustments, vacation and sick
leavc provisions, car allowances, and civil service status
of cnlployecs in 148 community recreation departments
are summarized in the following pages. This information
will bc uscd by the National Advisory Committee in
formulating rccommendations for the future dcvelOpment
of thc profession.

Extensive usc has been made of thc association’s pre-
vious salary studies, usually undertaken every ten years.
Thc basic information contained in them has been rc-
quested by rccreation executives, recreation boards and

1 See “The National Advisory Committee on Recruitment, Training,

and Placement of Recreation Personnel,” page 126, RECREATION,
June 1952.

I SEPTEMBER 1952

 

ll

BEBE-II

other government agencies concerned with the budgets of
recreation agencies and the compensation of recreation
personnel. With the pressures of the defense period, such
requests have become even more numerous, and the need
for a study of current conditions has been apparent. It
can therefore be expected that this material will serve an
immediate as well as a long-term use.

The appreciation of the survey staff and of all who will
usc this compilation must be expressed to the busy recrea-
tion executives in large and small departments who, as a
contribution to the recreation movement, have provided
the essential detailed information for their communities.

Scope of the Study

Questionnaires were sent to 223 cities with well-de-
velOped recreation programs established on a year-round
basis, selected to provide an adequate cross-section of
public departments. Reports were reccived covering 2,007
full-time positions in 145 rccreation departments under
local governmental auspices. The smallest community had
a population of 3,076; the largest 3,606,436 (1950 cen-
sus). Spccial care was taken to include representation of
all geographic areas and all major population groups.

Results of the study are reported in one or both of two
ways. Geographic reports cover eight regions with the
same boundaries as the eight National Recreation Asso-
ciation Districts, (Tables II—IX). Statistics reported by

237

population group are divided into five categories, (Tables
X—XIV). Because of the growing number of year-round
professionally-staffed recreation departments in smaller
communities, figures are reported separately for cities
under 25,000 in population, for the first time. Previous
surveys have included this group in the “under 50,000
population” categoryz.

The titles and definitions of positions used for this
study are drawn from “Personnel Standards in Recreation
Lendership" (National Recreation Association, 1949) 3.
Instructions accompanying the questionnaire outlined these
categories, and interpretation of local titles was left en-
tirely to the discretion of the person filling out the ques-
tionnaire. No requests for additional information were
made, and practically no editing of reports was done.

Like the other salary studies published by the Associa-
tion in 1938 and 1943, this is based on a limited survey
and is intended to provide a general indication of salaries
currently being paid recreation workers.

Nature and Treatment of Data

In tabulating salaries by population and geographical
district, lowest, median and highest salaries for each posi-
tion are recorded. The tnedian was used, rather than the
arithmetic average, to obviate the possibility of undue
weighting by an extremely high or extremely low salary‘.
In Table I, summarizing the salary findings of this study,
quartiles have also been determinedi’.

’For simplicity, class intervals and table titles used are given in
round numbers. 215,000—150,000 should be read 25,000 up to but
not including 50,000 and so on.

'A report of the Recreation Leadershi Standards Committee of
the National Recreation Association. T is committee is composed
of recreation executives.

‘ The median is defined as the point so located in a series that one-
half of the items lic above it and one-half below it. The median
between 1 and 25 would be 13. In the case of an even number of
items, the median is the arithmetic mean of the two central items.
"The first or lower quartile is the point above which three-quarters
of all items lie, and below which one-quarter lie. The third or up.
per quartile is defined in a similar manner as the point above
]which one-quarter of all items lie, and below which three-quarters
1C.

Where the salary range for an individual position was
reported, rather than the amount paid the incumbent or
incumbents, an amount half-way between the two extremes
was arbitrarily assigned each worker. (An example of
this occurs in the highest executive salary reported in
Table 11

Cost of living adjustments were reported as part of total
salary, and are so considered in the summaries. Allowances
for use of private car on department business, on the other
hand, were recorded separate from salary.

Special arrangements made primarily for the con-
venience of the employing agency, although having mone-
tary value to the worker, were not recorded as salary.
Such items were listed separately on the questionnaire,
and the estimated value noted. In a few cities residence
was provided for executive or for staff members, and in
one the superintendent’s rent was subsidized. Iiome tele-
phones for executive and certain supervisory workers were
paid for by several cities. Others provided life or hos-
pitalization insurance without charge. One or two depart-
ments allowed a percentage of concession profits to the
manager of the facility. For several of the minimum-salary
workers reported in the summaries, receipt of income ap-
parently from non-departmental sources was recorded.

Fiscal Years and Current Salaries

As a basis for tabulatittg and evaluating current sala-
ries, all participating departments were asked to identify
the beginning date of their fiscal year. Of 142 cities which
did provide this information, only slightly more than
half were using the calendar year. January opens the
fiscal year for seventy-four departments, and July for
twelve. In summary, nine different months were reported
as beginning the financial year for various departments.

The salaries which form the foundation of this study,
therefore, represent the current salary received by the in-
cumbent in each position as of January 1952, or the salary
established for the 1952 fiscal year, if determined. Most

 

 

 

 

 

TABLE I
RECREATION WORKERS SALARIES IN 148 U. S. CITIES. JANUARY 1952
S A L A R Y _____
Position Dcpts. Workers
licport- Report- Lowest Lower Median Upper Ilighcst
in; ed Quartile Quartile
Superintendent .   148 148 $2,900 34,380 $5,120 86.000 511.0001
Assistant Superintendent .. 62 73 2,370 3,300 3,900 4.576 8,580
General Supervisor   57 152 2,100 3,500 4,200 4.992 6.500
Supervisor of Special Activities:
.Iusic or Drama .... ..  .. ll 12 2,460 3,300 4,870 5,280 5,865
Sports and Athletics'  52 67 2,0“) 3,018 3.750 «1,377 7.165
Girls' 5' Women's Act." 27 30 1.2002 2,930 3.357 4,452 5,280
Arts & Crafts or Nature 15 24 2,370 3.060 3.720 5,280 6.265
Dance or Social Act.  8 8 2,580 2.778 3.185 4.161 4,680
Othcr Special Act."  25 32 2,496 3,156 3,517 4,680 6,912
Director ..  .... . .. .. .. 56 833 1,860 3,068 3.620 3,720 6.351
Assistant Director or
Recreation Leader .. 35 558 1.896 3,200 3,738 3,785 4.965
Camp Director   .. 2 2 3.816 4.248
S talist ..  ..  15 50 1.800 2,778 2.801 3.381 3,982
.‘l anagcr  .. __ 10 18 2.310 3.000 3.090 4.620 4.992

 

'—1ncludes Boys’ and Men's Activities Supervisor.

"-4130! Included 1n Personnel Standards in Recreation Leadership.

f—Mid-ti-oint of Salary Range, 1952 salary of incumbent not reported.
p F

I- Sup
238

mental by other income. Source and amount not defined.

RECREATION

departments with a fiscal year starting July 1 or later
furnished information on 1951-52 salaries only.
Salaries Now

Recreation salaries reported in 1952 range widely from
$1,200 to $11,000, (Table I). Thc groups having thc
lowest first quartile were supervisors of dance or social
activity Specialists. In these categories, three-quarters of
all the workers reported were receiving salaries above
82,778 in January 1952.

The position of general supervisor shows a higher me—
dian than that of the assistant superintendent. It should
be noted that ninety-one per cent of the general supervisory

Because of regional variations in number and population com-'

positions exist in communities of 100,000 population or
more, and that in these cities the median for assistant su-
perintendent is higher than that for thc gcneral super-
visor. Morc than half of the assistant superintendent posi-
lions studied are in cities undcr 100,000 in population.
Similar observations can be made about othcr positions
such as director and recreation lcatlcr, where higher sala-
ries in larger communities cause an apparent distortion.
Detailed comparisons of interest to those using the study
can be made by using Tables I—XIV. Categories in which
no workers were reported have been deleted from Tables

II—XIV.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.-
were

 

position of cities reporting, exact salary comparisons are not
possible on a regional basis. Median executive salaries in the
Pacific Southwest, Great Lakes, and Middle Atlantic Districts were
ahove the national median. The low executive median was New
England. Lowest medians in staff categories were reported in the
Southern and Southwestern Districts.

Eight different types of positions were missing in one or more
regions. Year-round camp directors were reported only in the
Pacific Southwest, and supervisors of dance or social activities only'
in half of the eight regions.

RECREATION SALARIES BY REGION,
JANUARY, 1952

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TABLE II . TABLE IV
NEW ENGLAND DISTRICT (14 CITIES) SOUTHERN DISTRICT (24 CITIES)
S A L A R Y S A L A R Y
Position Depts. Workers Position Depts. \Vorkers
Report- Report- Lowest Median Highest Report- Report- Lowest Median Highest
ing ed ____ _T_________in‘g ed
Superintendent ............ .. 14 14 $3,000 $4,400 $6,300 Supoerilltcndent . ------------ -- 24 24 $3,300 $4,805 $7,500
Assistant Superintendent 6 6 2,548 3,665 4,307 ASSlStam Superlntendem 9 12 2,520 4,215 4,515
General Supervisor ...... .. 4 7 3,080 3,650 4,000 General Supervisor  13 22 2.400 3.300 4.320
Supervisor of Special Activities: Supervisor of Special Activities:
Sports and Athletics .. 5 7 2,025 3,363 4,090 bports and Athletlcs .. 11 15 2.600 2.733 4800
Girls’ & Women’s Act. 3 3 3,080 3,363 3,698 Girls’ St Women’s Act. 7 7 2.600 2,564 3,533
other Special Act,  1 1 2,600 Arts & Crafts or Nature 4 6 2,370 2,895 4,020
. Dance or Social Act. .. 2 2 2,733 2,820
Director  5 19 2,600 3,358 3,508 Other Special Act, ,,,, .. 4 5 2,496 3,420 4,784-
Ass’t. Dir. or Recreation H
Leader ........................ .. 2 3 2,550 2,640 3,192 Director  11 60 1,860 2,979 3,588
Manager ........................ .. 1 1 3,000 Ass’t. Dir. or Recreation
Leader  8 38 1,896 2,553 2,730
Specialist ...................... .. 5 7 1,800 2,250 3,900
TABLE III TABLE V
MIDDLE ATLANTIC DISTRICT (20 CITIES) GREAT LAKES DISTRICT (31 CITIES)
S A L A R Y S A L A R Y
' ' P 'ti D t. W k
Pomon 123318188 15335:? Lowest Median Highest OS} on Refigrst- 3350?: Lowest Median Highest
ing ed mg ed
Superintendent  20 20 83,300 $5,310 89,500 Superintendent. ............ .. 31 31 $2,900 $5,700 $11,000
Assistant Superintendent 11 15 2,370 3,720 4,672 Assistant Supcrtntendent 12 13 2,599 5,616 3,530
General Supervisor ,,,,,, ,, 6 18 2,288 3,460 6,500 General Supervrsor ...... .. 8 39 3,300 5,665 6,395
Supervisor of Special Activities: Supervisor of Special Activities:
Music or Drama  2 2 3,300 5,060 Music or Drama ...... .. 3 4 5,280 5,444 5,865
Sports and Athletics .. 6 10 3,000 3,969 5,200 Sports and Athletics .. 13 15 2,000 4,606 7,165
Girls’ & Women’s Act. 3 5 2,600 3,350 5,200 Girls’ St Women’s Act. 9 11 2,200 4,128 5,280
Arts St Crafts or Nature 2 3 3,300 4,970 5,200 Other Special Act.  5 8 3,600 5,253 5,875
0”” Spec‘al Ac"  2 2 3’0” 3’493 Director .......................... .. 13 149 1,920 4,762 5,450
Director .......................... .. 3 25 2,520 3,620 4,130 Ass’t. Dir. or Recreation
Ass’t. Dir. or Recreation Leader ........................ .. 9 332 1,780 3,786 4,965
Leader ........................ .. 3 91 2,300 3,350 3,440 Specialist ........................ .. 3 18 3,396 3,968 3,982
Specialist ........................ .. 2 2 2,860 3,400 Manager ........................ .. 3 8 3,270 4,620 4,992
SEPTEMBER 1952 239

 

 

 

 

 

TABLE VI
MIDWEST DISTRICT (21 CITIES)
S A L A R Y
Position Depts. W'orkers
Report- Report- Lowest Median Highest

fhwx in: ed
Superintendent 21 2I 33.720 “.600 $6.300
Assistant Superintendent 6 7 2.880 3.300 3,800
General Supervisor  4 4 3.240 3.781 4.224
Supervisor of Special Activities:

Music or Drama  1 1 3.000

Sports and Athletics .. 6 7 3.050 3.600 4.392

Cirls' & Women's Act. 2 2 2.400 2.545

Arts & Crafts or Nature 3 4 2.857 3.000 3.212

Dance or Social Act. 2 2 3.120 4.392

Other Special Act. . .. 3 6 3.000 3.320 3.360
Director ...... .. . 5 25 2.568 3.360 4.200
Ass't. Dir. or Recreation

Leader . . . . . . .. 7 41 2.436 2.640 3.360
Specialist . . . 2 11 2.233 2.732 2.804
TABLE VII

SOUTHWEST DISTRICT (10 CITIES)
S A L A R Y
Position Depts. W'orkera
Report- Report- Lowest Median Highest
ing ed

Superintendent .   10 10 $3.600 $1.930 $6.600
Assistant Superintendent 6 6 2.880 4.350 4.920
General Supervisor ...... .. 5 9 2.100 3.072 4.140
Supervisor of Special Activities:

Music or Drama ........ .. 2 2 2.460 3,144

Sports and Athletics .. 5 6 2.880 2.660 3.840

Arts & Crafts or Nature 1 1 3.060

Dance or Social Act... 2 2 2.580 3,250

Other Special Act. .... .. 3 3 3.000 3,020 3.060
Director ......................... .. 6 60 2.100 2.661 3.465
Ass't. Dir. or Recreation

Leader   1 6 2.520 2.520
Manager ........................ .. 3 4 2.460 2.520 3.000

 

TABLE VIII
PACIFIC SOUTHWEST DISTRICT (16 CITIES)

 

 

S A L A R Y
Position Depts. \Vorkers
Report- Report- Lowest Median Highest
ing ed

Superintendent ....... .. . 16 16 $4.320 $6.272 $9.%0
Assistant Superintendent 9 IO 3.660 5.767 7.800
General Supervisor  . 12 40 3.660 4.300 5.196
Supervisor of Special Activities:

Music or Drama ...... .. 3 3 4.452 4.680 5.230

Sports and Athletics 6 7 2.760 4.680 6.942

Girls' & Women's Act. 2 2 3.200 4.452

Arts 8: Crafts or Nature 2 2 3.228 4.452

Dance or Social Act. 2 2 3.936 4.680

Other Special Act.  5 7 3.414 4.560 6.942
Director   10 400 3.000 3.068 6.354
Ass't. Dir. or Recreation

Leader ....................... .. 4 15 2.400 3.577 3.738
Camp Director .............. .. 2 2 3.816 4.248
Specialist ........................ .. 2 11 3.381 3.409 3.636
Manager ........................ .. 2 4 2.340 2.930 3.060
TABLE IX

PACIFIC NORTHWEST DISTRICT (12 CITIES)

S A L A R Y

Position Depts. Workers
Report- Report- Lowest Median Highest
ing ed
Superintendent .............. .. 12 12 $4,150 34.665 36.000
Assistant Superintendent 3 4 2.500 2.910 4.620
General Supervisor  5 13 3.076 4.080 4.320
Supervisor of Special Activities:

Sports and Athletics .. 1 1 4.320 4.320
Director   .. 3 95 3.000 3.468 3.720
Ass't. Dir. or Recreation

Leader   1 32 2.796 3.478 3.576
Specialist    I 1 2.700
Manager ........................ .. 1 1 3.730

POPULATION AND SALARIES

In general. salaries increase with the size of the city. Based on
the median salaries reported. supervisors in cities of 500.000 or
more. received more than superintendents in cities undcr 50.000.
and supervisors in cities of 100.000 or more are higher paid than
superintendents in cities under 25.000 in population. In both
cases. however. the highest salaried recreation executive among
the smaller communities receives more compensation than the t0p
su ervisor in the larger ones.

'ewcr staff positions and lower staff salaries exist in the cities
of Ira than 50.000 pepulation. In these cities about half of all

categories listed are rcscnt. and the number of workers in each
category is limited. ticdian salaries for staff positions in cities
under 25,000 are under 33.000. This is true for only two types of
osition in cities of 100,000 or more. The effect of both salary
revels and number of staff sitions in the largest cities can be
seen by a comparison of Ta]: e XIV with Table I.

The chart on page 242 offers graphic evidence of the changes in
median salaries of recreation executives in communities of different
size since 1938. This chart is based on the current study and the
salary studies in 1938 and 1948.

RECREATION SALARIES BY POPULATION,
JANUARY 1952

TABLE X
UNDER 25.000 POPULATION (47 CITIES)

 

 

 

 

 

S A L A R Y
Position Dept. \S’orkers
Report- itemrt- Lowest Median Highest
in! t i_‘________ _
Superintendent 47 47 $2.900 $1.300 @6200
Assistant Superintendent 9 II 2.500 2000 3.900
General Supervisor 4 4 2.288 2.400 2.721
Supervisor of Special Activities:
Sports and Athletics 4 4 2.025 2.660 3.500
Cirls' & Women's Act. 4 4 2.200 2.600 3.700
Director 1 2 3.096 3.096
Ass't. Dir. or Recreation
Learlcr . ..  1 I 2.400
Manager . . . . . 1 1 3.2?0

240

TABLE XI
25.000-50,000 POPULATION (30 CITIES)

 

 

 

S A L A R Y
Position Depta. \Vorkers
Remn- Report- Lowest Median Highest
in! Pd _ _ _ C
Superintendent . ,, 30 30 $3,540 $1.8m $7.600
Assistant Superintendent 13 I4 2.370 3.690 4.672
General Supervisor ...... .. 6 6 2.160 3.465 3.801

 

Sapervtsor of Special Activities:

Sports and Athletics 5 5 2.760 3.750 3.797

Dance or Social Act. 2 2 2.580 3.250

Other Special Act. 3 3 3.000 3.493 3.900
Director . .. 9 10 1.860 2.400 3.300
Ass’t. Dir. or Recreation

Leader 5 6 2.400 2.670 3.192

RECREATION

TABLE XII
50,000-100,000 POPULATION (21 CITIES)
S A L A R Y
Position Depts. Workers
Report- Report- Lowest Median Highest
ing ed

Superintendent .............. .. 21 21 $3,840 $5,385 $7,200
Assistant Superintendent 12 14 2,520 3,600 5,616
General Supervisor ...... .. 2 3 2,470 3,390 3,600

Supervisor of Special Activities:

 

Sports and Athletics .. 15 19 2,000 3,480 4,800 Music or Drama ...... .. 5 5 2,460 3,300 5,230
Girls’ 8: Women’s Act. 9 9 1,200 3,300 3,698 Sports and Athletics .. 19 24 2,664 3,475 5,760
Arts 8: Crafts or Nature 2 2 3,000 3,000 Girls’ 8: Women’s Act. 10 11 2,400 3,120 5,264
Other Special Act.  2 2 3,600 4,524 Arts&Crafts or Nature 8 11 2,370 3,228 4,452
, Dance or Social Act. 4 4 2,733 2,970 4,392
Director. ....................  11 27 1,920 2,760 3,588 other Special Act.  11 16 2,496 3,235 4,734
Ass’t. D11‘. or Recreation M
Leader ........................ .. 2 4 2,376 2,518 3,054 Director .......................... .. 25 259 2,040 3,409 5,450
Manager ........................ .. 1 1 3,000 Ass’t. Dir. or Recreation
Leader ........................ .. 19 105 1,896 2,796 3,738
Camp Director .............. .. 2 2 3,816 4,248
Specialist ........................ .. 12 24 1,800 3,384 3,900
Manager ........................ .. 6 9 2,340 3,000 3,720
TABLE XIV
OVER 500,000 POPULATION (11 CITIES)
SALARY
Position Depts. Workers
Report- Report- Lowest Median Highest
ing ed
Superintendent .............. .. 11 11 $4,860 $9,000 $11,000
Assistant Superintendent 8 10 3,950 6,942 8,580
General Supervisor ...... .. 11 63 3,072 4,992 6,500
Supervisor of Special Activities:
Music or Drama ...... .. 6 7 3,134 5,280 5,865
Sports and Athletics .. 9 15 3,660 5,060 7,165
Girls’ & Womcn’s Act. 4 6 3,350 5,156 5,280
Arts 8' Crafts or Nature 5 11 3,060 5,280 6,265
Dancc or Social Act. 2 2 3,936 4,680
Other Special Act.  7 11 3,360 5,077 6,942
Director .......................... .. 10 535 2,628 3,350 6,354
Ass’t. Dir. or Recreation
Lea der ........................ .. 8 442 2,300 3,786 4,965
Specialist ........................ .. 3 26 2,804 3,957 3,982
Manager ........................ .. 2 7 3,120 4,620 4,992
Current salary statistics alone present an incomplete picture of any field. The following three
tables are designed to aid in completing the picture of the relative financial position of profes-
sional recreation leadership. The final six tables have to do with basic provisions now aiiecting
employment, working conditions and reimbursement for travel on the job.
SALARIES AND “STANDARDS”
Current salary ranges for fourteen year-round positions are TABLE XV
comparcd with recommended salary ranges in Table XV. This SALAR1E5_ACTUAL AND RECOMMENDED, 1952
table summarizes the salary picture for cities in all population P .. d d
groups, and the rangcs are necessarily extremely wide. 051mm 33%;? “6019.323 8
ln establishing appr0priate salary ranges as part of the 1949 , '“
standards rcport, the committee also distinguished certain maxi- SUPanendem, ------------------------ -- $2,900*$11:000 $3,494*$16a330
mums and minimums for administrative and supervisory positions Assmam Superintendent ------ -- 2370- 8,530 3,604- 9,555

in citics of various sizc. Such sub-groups have not been noted in
Table XV but may be reviewed in the report. The committce also
advised revision of salary recommendations with any increase in
the cost of living. The figures used in this study rcpresent an
upward rcvision of 9.2%.

The comparison madc possible in this table make it obvious that
in this area thcre still cxists “a practical objective to be striven
for“. In only two positions does the actual maximum salary cx-
cced the recommendcd range, and in both cases this salary was
reportcd for only onc department. The lowest salaries rcported
are with one exception below the minimum suggestcd (Camp Di-
rector). Howevcr, in all but two categories, more than half of the
workcrs reportcd are rcceiving more than thc minimum salary
reeomm'cnded for the position.

°“ . not an unattainable idcal.” Personnel Standards in Rec-

reation Leadership, page 7.

SEPTEMBER 1932

TABLE XIII
100.000-500,000 POPULATION (39 CITIES)

S A L A R Y
Position Depts. Workers
Report- Report- Lowest Median Highest
ing ed
Superintendent .............. .. 39 39 $3,840 $5,628 $9,940
Assistant Superintendent 20 24 3,665 4,470 7,116
General Supervisor ...... .. 34 76 2,100 4,060 6,300

Supervisor of Special Activities:

 

 

General Supervisor .................. .. 2,100- 6,500 3,931 —- 8,190

Supervisor of Special Activities:

Music or Drama .................. .. 2,460 — 5,865 3,248 —- 7,371
Sports and Athletics .......... .. 2,000- 7,165 3,248- 7,371
Girls’ 8t Women’s Act. ...... .. 1,200- 5,280 3,248- 7,371

Arts 8: Crafts or Nature .... ..
Dance or Social Act. .......... ..

2,370- 6,285
2,580— 4,680

3,248- 7,371
3,248— 7,371

Other Special Act. .............. .. 2,496 - 6,942 3,248 - 7,371
Director .................................... .. 1,860 - 6,354 3,248 — 5,678
Ass’t. Dir. or Recreation Leader 1,896 - 4,965 2,621 - 4,586
Camp Director ..................... .. 3,816 - 4,248 3,604 - 5,897
Specialist ........................ .. 1,800 - 3,982 2,621 - 4,586
Manager .................................. .. 2,340 - 4,992 3,276 - 5,504

 

*Figures from Personnel Standards in Recreation Leadership (1949
Ed.) Adjusted by 9.2%.

241

SALARY INCREASES

Over the period 1918—1952 every position on the full-time rec-
reation stall showed a salary increase in median salary. While
this might be expected. there is significance in the amount of
increase recorded in various positions, and in the change of rate
of increase in certain positions when compared with the 1938-1948
period.

Listing the thirteen major categories of positions by rank, ac-
cording to amount of increase for the median position in 1952 over
the median position in 19-18, (Table XVI), shows that greatest
casli increases went to special activity supervisors and to workers
involved in direct leadership of recreation activities. The median
supervisor of music or dramatics received more than three times
as great an increase as the average recreation executive, and the
leadership worker more than three times that of the assistant
exccutive.

In the present study, the recreation superintendent ranks tenth
and the assistant supcrintcndent eleventh in amount of salary in-
cream since 1918, above only the activity specialist. This almost
completely reverses the situation which existed in 1918, when the
superintendent ranked first and the assistant superintendent sec-
ond in amount of salary increase over a ten-year period. In 19-18
the median superintendent's ten-year increase had been $1,750 and
the assistant superintendent's $1,436, well above those of other
year-round leaders.

In the past four years the salary increase of the median super-
visor of music or drama and the supervisor of dance or social
activities has been greater than the total salary paid for these
positions in 1938. Over a fourtcen-ycar pcriod salaries have more
than doubled for the median supervisor of girls’ and women’s
activities, director, assistant director and recreation leader, and
have nearly doubled for the general supervisor.

TABLE XVI
INCREASE IN MEDIAN SALARY, IN RANK ORDER OF
INCREASE FROM 19-18-1952

 

 

 

Rank Position 19-18-1952 1938-19-18
_ Increase Increase
I Supervisor of Music or Drama .... .. $1,990 $1,080
2 Ass't. Dir. of Recreation or Leader 1.538 856
3 Supervisor of Dance or Social Act. 1,385 46-1
4 Director .  .. ....... .. 1,160 960
5 Supervisor of Arts 8' Crafts or Nature 1,080 70
6 Gencral Supenisor . .  . 1,050 9803:
7 Supervisor of Other Special Act.  9-17 Not report-

ed 1938
8 Supervisor of Sports and Athletics . 750 1.020
9 Supervisor of Girls' & Women's Act. 717 1,101
10 Manager    .. 690 1.2901.
11 Superintendent . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . 570 1,750
12 Assistant Superintendent  ..  450 1,436
13 Specialist     341 810

x—Reportcd under Supervisor of Playgrounds and Centers, 1938.

z—Scc also Report on Reach-Pool Manager. 1938, 1918. All Fa-
cility Managers reported under single title in 1952 survey for
the first time.

COST OF LIVING ADJUSTMENTS

Salary adjustments based on the cost of living were reported by
only 36.5% of the dc artmcnts, although the general increase in
all salaries undoubted y reflects the changing value of the dollar.
It may be significant that in nearly two-thirds of the cities studied
the raised salary level was considered a permanent, rather than a
temporary condition. Geographical variations in emphasis on
specific cost of living adjustments can be seen in Table XVII.

Although the questionnaire did not request information about
the amount or type of cost of living adjustment, if one was in-
eluded, a number of departments added comments about the sys-
tem u-cd locally. Some repoch "lump sum” adjustments varying
upward from less than $100 per year. Flcxiblc bonus payments
were notch by a very limited number of cities. In one city the
cost of living adjustment in 1932 amounts to more than the basic
salary of one class of worker. "Step-adjustments” of a percentage
for a basic salary range, plus a lesser percentage on higher salaries
also are used.

TABLE XVII
COST OF LIVING AIIJUS'I‘.\~IE."I'S. 1952

DEPARTMENTS REPORTING COST OF LIVING

 

A DJ USTAI ENTS

DISTRICT

Great Lakes ..  ..  .. .. .. . 10
Southern . .   10
New England ..  . .  8
Pacific Northwest .   8
Pacific Southwest  . .... 7
Midwest   . . . . . .  6
Southwest . . . 3
.‘Iiddle Atlantic 2
ALL DISTRICTS  51

VACATION AND SICK LEAVE

l’roviaions for sick leave and vacation allowances in some com-
munities are required to be uniform throughout all departments
of the city government, and this may have affected the report-s rc-
ccivcd. llowevcr. more than one-third of the departments which
reported on vacation policy are now allowing over 12 working days
with pay for annual vacation. In 1918 this was true for only about
one-filth of the departments which reported.

I’aid sick leave is provlded for In all but [our of the reporting
departments. One department in six has specific provision for
cumulative or extended sick leave based on length of scrvlcc. Addi-
tional sick time for persons employed more than five years is al-
lowed by 13 departments. Three othcrs have a basic unit of sick
lravc at full pay, followed by variable amounts of time at half
or other partial pay. In nine departments unused sick leave is
cumulative to a set maximum. Of these nine, six department.- have
maximums of from 90 to 150 days; the other three allow 60, 30.
and 15 clays.

 

212

TABLE XVIII
VACATION ALLOWANCE: SUI’ERIN'I‘ENDEN'I‘S OF
RECREATION. 1952

POPULATION

 

 

 

Dcpart- Under 25,000- 50,000- 100 .000- Over
“'mklng Days mental 25.000
50.000 100.000 500.000 500.000

12 or less .. 89 22 22 11 28 6
13- 17 .. .. 31 15 4 5 6 1
18 - 23 . 12 2 1 3 3 3
Over 23 7 4 3 0 0 0
Nu Srt Policy 4 3 0 0 0 1
TOTA l. .. . 113 -I0 30 19 37 ll

 

'I'ABIJ'] XIX
VACATION ALLOWANCE: STAFF. 1932
P o P U 1. A_'I_‘__1_0 .\°

 

 

 

Dcpmt- Under 23,000- 50.000- 100.000- Over
Working Days menu 23.000
50.000 100,000 500.000 500.000

12 or less 83 10 ' 21 12 28 6
I3 - I? 22 6 4 5 7 0
18 - 23 7 2 0 1 I 3
0s er 23 1 0 I 0 0 0
No Set Policy 3 3 0 0 0 0
TOTAL 116 27 26 18 36 9

RECREATION

TABLE XX

SICK LEAVE: SUPERINTENDENTS OF RECREATION, 1952

POPULATION

 

Depart- Under 25,000- 50,000- 100,000- Over
W'orking Days ments 25,000
50,000 100,000 500,000 500,000

12 or less  72 13 18 11 26 4
13 - 17 .......... .. 20 5 3 1 6 5
18—23 .......... .. 4 2 1 0 1 0
Over 23 ........ .. 8 2 3 0 2 1
No Set Policy. 31 19 5 4 2 1
None  5 4 0 1 0 0
TOTAL .......... .. 140 45 30 17 37 11

TABLE XXI
SICK LEAVE: STAFF, 1952

POPULATION

CIVIL SERVICE STATUS

The increased use of merit system in local government is re-
Hectcd in reports from 138 cities on civil service coverage of full-
time year-round recreation personnel, (Table XX). For all cities,
63 departments reported some or all workers covered by civil
service or similar merit systems, and 75 indicated that no person-
nel were covered. Excluding the communities under 25,000 in
p0puIation which in only a few cases have city—wide civil service
systems, brings the picture into sharper focus. Of 93 cities over
25,000 in p0pulation, nearly 64 per cent now have recreation
workers covered by civil service.

Depart- Under 25,000- 50,000- 100,000- Over
Working Days ments 25,000
50,000 100,000 500,000 500,000

12 or less  71 11 17 12 D 26 5
13 — 17 .......... .. 19 3 4 1 6 5
18—23 .......... .. 1 0 0 0 1 0
Over 23 ........ .. 6 1 2 0 2 1
N0 Set Policy.. 15 8 3 2 2 0
None .............. .. 4 3 0 1 0 0
TOTAL .......... .. 116 26 26 16 37 11
TABLE XXII

CIVIL SERVICE IN RECREATION DEPARTMENTS. 1952
PERSONNEL COVERED

_....._._..

 

 

CAR ALLOWANCES

Reports on reimbursement for necessary automobilc expenses
were provided by 119 recreation departments, (Table XXIII).
More than one-third of the executives used a car provided by the
city; and over one-quarter of those who used their own autos on
city business received at least $50 per month car allowance,
(Highest reported: $125 per month). Car allowances of_from $20
to $40 per month predominated. Cars or car allowances were also
provided for some supervisory stafIr members whosc positions re-
quire travel.

An increasing uniformity of car allowance systems is apparent.
Relatively few departments paid for car use on a mileage basis.
Only eight executives received miscellaneous reimbursement in
cash or kind for car use. Of these, six reported “full car mainte-
nance,” onc received only a gasoline allowance, and one received

a monthly allotment during the playground season. One reported
“undecided.”

City Some

Population Supt. All Staff Staff
In Thousands Depts. All _ None Only Except Supt. Only
Under 25 ...... .. 45 41 4
25 — 50 .......... .. 28 4 19 2 2 1
50 — 100 ........ .. 19 15 2 2
100 — 500 ...... .. 35 20 11 4
Over 500 ...... .. 11 6 2 2 1
ALL GROUPS 133— 45 75 6 10 2
TABLE XXIII

CAR ALLOWANCES
P 0 s 1 T I 0 N

Other Other

 

 

Type of Ass’t. Gen’l Athletic Special Staff

Allowance Supt. Supt. Supv. Supv. Supv. Member
City Car .............. .. 42 14 9 10 9 2
Monthly Allowance
Under $10.00 ........ .. 3 0 0 0 1 1
$10 — $20.00 .......... .. 6 2 1 4 4 7
$20 - $30.00 .......... .. 16 5 8 6 8 7
$30 — $40.00 .......... .. 22 5 8 9 5 7
$40 — $50.00 .......... .. 7 2 1 3 2 0
$50 — $60.00  ....... .. 11 1 3 2 1 1
$60 or more ........ .. 5 1 2 1 0 0
Mileage Rate
5 — .05 .............. .. 0 1 0 0 0 1
$.06 — 07 .............. .. 7 4 4 4 5 4
3.08 — 09 .............. .. 1 1 2 0 0 0
Other .................... .. 9 2 2 3 3 1
Total Reported  119 38 40 42 38 31

Training Course Information

0 The demand for recreation training oppor-
tunities of various types has increased since
World War ll. The number of inquiries is
growing and because of specific requests, the
association has agreed to serve as a clearing
center for information on miscellaneous train-
ing institutes, conferences and workshops. We
have had a trial run and we are starting our
second year of publishing a list of short train-
ing courses. This has expanded, and if the
interest is maintained, this type of infor-
mation will continue to be provided.

The February 1953 issue of RECREATION
will carry a listing of spring and summer
short-term training opportunities. Those who
wish to have their institutes, conferences and
workshops included in the list should sub-
mit their information to the association’s Rec-
reation Personnel Service by December 1,
1952. The September 1953 issue of the maga-
zine will carry a listing of fall and winter
training projects. June 1, 1953 will be the
final date for receiving this information.

 

SEPTEMBER 1952

243

 

How To Do \TQ 5.:W£.ggé

Make A Maqa3ine Rack.
4// you need -— noi/ keg ; sandpaper; sow; o’r/'//; dowe/ or

 

brooms X/ok ; on/n or poi/7}! ; per/of bros/7 ,'

/€o//7€r or my me/‘o/; mob o/sferg/ foo/r5;

on 6/ hammer.

~ DIRECTIONS ~

I. Smooih sur‘Face lower half noii keq.
Use rouqh sandpaper.

2. Cui (1ng upper half nail keq ~excepi for iwo opposiie siaues.

3. Sandpaper boHn sides of ionq sioues. Drill hoies as shown.

Upper half oi2 siaues NoXe: Ho/e shou/d be
Cu? awag~ a fi'gh?‘ 797‘ for
except Two dowe/ or

broomband/e '

 

 
   
 
 
  

 
 
  

 

5and Smoo‘i‘h
lower hailfomc
no” Reg.

4. Plaza-234 inch dowe| or broomhondle in place. .

5. Siam or poini inside and ouisioie.

cl"
1.

/VoXe: For inferesX/hg confros)‘

,oox'n)< Me ins/die o oW/‘erenl‘
co/or Mon 7/73 ou/s/o’e .

6. Wiih uphoisi erg Jfucks fas‘ien a band of
leaiher or 1hin meiai siroppinq around
ihe 10p and boh‘om of ihe lower half \ \ \ \
of ihe naii keq. '

 

244 RECREATION

 

Tractor

The “Tuffy” tractor, made by S. L.
Allen and Company, Incorporated,
Fifth Street and Glenwood Avenue,
Philadelphia 40, can perform several
functions. Weighing eighty pounds,
powered by a one horsepower motor,
it ean plow and cultivate flower beds;
with use of attachment sow grass seed,
lime or fertilizer; can be hitched to
liandmower for power Operation; or,
hitched to trailer cart, can transport
tools and materials or haul trash. For
details, write manufacturer.

Foto-Jac

A new ackct for camera fans retails
at aboul $9.95 in camera shops and
sporting goods storcs. Manufactured
by Jacob Finkclstein 8' Sons, Woon-
socket, Bhode Island, the makers of

 

Narraganselt brand sports outerwear
for men and boys, it is available in
small, medium or large, in grey, tan,
skipper blue and green; has eight
pockets, six with zippers.

Shuttle-Loop

Shuttle-Loop is a game resembling
badminton, played with a shuttlceock
and paddles. A metal 100p is erected

| SEPTEMBER 1952

on a standard in the center of a court
five feet wide by twelve feet long. Be-
cause of the small space required and
the absence of any article to cause in-
jury to persons or furniture, this game
may be played anywhere—home,
camp, playground, school room or
gymnasium, office or hospital. A set,
containing two paddles, one shuttle-
coek, standard and loop, chalk and in-
structions, costs $4.95. If not available
locally, contact Dudley Sports Com-

pany, 633 Second Avenue, New York
16, New York.

Radiant Heating

Use of floor radiant heating for
gymnasiums, and even auditoriums,
protcels youngsters from the draftiness
often present in large, high-ceilinged
rooms. Tcelmical information may be

obtained from A. M. Byers Company,
810 Clark Building, Pittsburgh 22.

N otcpapcr

You ean get that supply of attrac-
livc nolepapcrs you have heen needing
and help to mainlain the work of the
National Parks Association at the same
time. A series of boxes of twenty notes,
illustrated with ten full-color photo-
graphs of different national parks and
monuments from Devereux Butcher’s
eollection, eost $1.00 each. Association

address is 1840 Mintwood Place, N.W.,
Washington 9, D.C., Attention: Mr.
Fred M. Packard.

biagic bIarker

An instant drying, waterproof ink,
applied from the bottle wilh an at-
tached brushpen, Magic Marker, made
by Speedry Products, Incorporated,
New York 6, sells for 69 cents. Refill
bottles cost 25 cents. It ean be used
for identifying marks on sports items
—balls, bats, and so forth, for labeling

boxes and other storage containers, or
ean be used in the arts and crafts pro-
gram. It comes in eight colors.

Magazine Binding

Already familiar to some librarians
is liquid plastic for mending books
and binding magazines. Readers of
RECREATION can now easily bind their
own magazines in volumes. The sim-
plest method, shown in illustration, is
to stack the magazines, weight tep,
apply two coats of plastic with a clean
brush to “hinge” side. When dry, the
plastic is flexible, will not crack, and
will last as long as the paper.

 

Several eompanies make a similar
product. Among these, “Book-Saver”
is manufaetured by Delkote, Incorpo-
rated, Wilmington 99, Delaware (or
Box 574, Berkeley, California) and re-
tails pcr jar (8 ounce) at $1.95.

“Bind-art” is made by Bro-Dart In-
dustries, Library Service, 59 East Al-
pine Street, Newark, New Jersey.

Others are “Norbond” made by
Demco Library Supplies, Madison 1,
Wiseonsin, and New Haven 2, Connect-
icut; and “Magic-Mend” made by
Gaylord Brothers, Incorporated, Syra-
cuse, New York, and Stockton, Cali-
fornia. Price for 8-ounce size is same
for all trademarks.

Recommendations Wanted!

We have already had many let-
ters of appreciation for the addition
of the Market News page as a regu-
lar feature of this magazine. How-
ever, we would like to ihcrease its
usefulness.

You can help.

When you use a product, which
you think is especially good—in
your work with games, sports, hand-
crafts, maintenance or construction
———and would like to tell others
about it. won’t you write a short
note to RECREATION, describing it
for us?

It can be another way to share
our knowledge and experience.

245

Books Received

 

AMERICAN PLANNING AND CIYIC AN-

Nt’AL, edited by llarlean .iames.

American Planning and Civie Asso-
ciation, 901 l'nion Trust Building,
Washington 5, D.C. $3.00.

APPLIED I.EATIIERCRAPT, Chris H.
CronenIan. Charles A. Bennett Com-
pany, incorporated, Peoria, Illinois.
$3.95.

COMPLETE BOOK OF COLLECTING HOD-
BIBS, TIIE, William Paul Bricker.
Sheridan House, New York. $3.50.

CRAFT ADVENTURES FOR CIIILDREN,

Gretchen Grimm and Catherine

Skeels. The Bruce Publishing Com-
pany, Milwaukee. $2.00.

CREATING AN iNDUSTRIAL CIVILIZA-
TION, A Re )ort on the Corning Con-
ference, edited b Eugene Staley.
iiarper and Brot ers, New York.
$1.00.

EMERALD CITY or 02, TII E, L. Frank
Baum. Simon and Sehuster, New
York. $.25.

EVERYONE CAN PAINT FABRICS, Pearl
F. Ashton. The Studio Publications,
New York. $3.95.

ENPERIMENT IN RECREATION WITH THE
MENTALLY RETARDED, AN, Bertha E.
Sehlotter and Margaret Svendsen.
Illinois Department of Public Wel-
fare, Chicago. Free.

FIELD TECHNIQUES ILLUSTRATED, Don
Canham and Tyler Mieoleau. A. S.
Barnes and Company, New York.
$1.50.

FRESII AND SALT WATER SPINNING, Eu-
gene Burns. A. S. Barnes and Com-

pany, New York. $1.50.

 

 

UNSURPASSED in SAFETY

and DURABlLlTY

in o lecture by feature comparison. BURKE-Built
outstanding value.
Approvol by park and playground officiols from
coast to coast Is on authoritative support for its
superiority. Speciol fittings and sclentiiic design 7
olier functional odvontages that reoily contribute '
to salety, durobility ond economy In the highest

Equipment definitely offers

degree.

Equipment by BURKE is built on constont research
and is unconditionally guaranteed ogalnst de-
Choose
BURKE-the choice ol men who hnow outstanding

fects In workmanship ond mteriols.

value.

THE J. E. URKE CO., lend du lee. Wis.
lottery Branch. let: 9“. New Irenswick. NJ.

GINGERBREAD SIIOP, TIIE, P. L. Trav-
ers. Simon and Sehuster, New York.
3.25.

HANDBOOK or I’RIYATE SCIIOOLs, TIIE,
l3. Porter Sargent. l". Porter Sar-
gent, Boston. $8.00.

llOPALONG CAssIDY AND TIIE BAR 20
COWBOY, E. M. Beecher. Simon and
Sehuster, New York. 8.25.

How To ADD YEARS To YOUR LIFE,
Peter J. Steincrohn, M.l). Wilfred
Funk, New York. $2.95.

iiownY DOODY IN TIIE WILD WEST,
Edward Kean. Simon and Sehuster,
New York. $1.00.

INDIAN SILVERSMITIIING, W. Ben Hunt.
The Bruce Publishing Company,
Milwaukee. $4.75.

INSIDE TIIE MAJORS, Joe Reiehler.
Hart Pubiieations, New York. $2.95.
Paper, $1.00.

LIABILITY FOR ACCIDENTS IN PIIYSICAL
EDUCATION, ATIILETIcs, AND REC-
REATION, iioward C. Leibce. Ann
Arbor Publishers, Ann Arbor, Mich-
igan. $2.00.

MARIONETTES, Donald W. Seager. The
Studio Publications, New York.
$5.00.

METIIODS IN PIIYSICAL EDUCATION,
liilda Clute Kozman, Rosalind Cas-
sidy and Chester 0. Jackson. W. B.
Saunders Company, Philadelphia.
$5.00.

NATURAL FRESII WATER FISIIING
BAITS, Vlad Evanofi. A. S. Barnes
and Company, New York. $1.50.

OKLAIIOMA SPLIT T FOOTBALL,

Charles (Bud) Wilkinson. Prentiee-
iiall, ineorporated,
$3.95.
PASTEIs, Keith ilenderson. The Stu-
dio Pnhlieations, New York. $5.00.
READINGS IN GROUP WORN, edited by

New

York.

 

WRITE TODAY

Free Plonning Assistance
by Burke engineers.

Complete catalog and price list.
Address Dept. A

 

 

Dorothea F. Sullivan. Association
Press, New York. $4.50.

RESTYLE YOUR HATs. Drucella Lowrie.
The Studio Publications. incorpo-
rated. New York. $2.95.

RIGIIT WAY To iiUMAN FIGURE DRAw-
ING AND ANATOMY, TIIE, A. Clad-
stonc Jaekson. Emerson Books, in-
eorporated, New York. $2.50.

SOFTBALL FOR GIRLS, A. Viola Mitch-
ell. A. S. Barnes and Company, New
York. $1.50.

SWING TOGETIIER —— 'I‘IIOUGIITs ON
ROWING, R. D. Burneli. Oxford Uni-
versity Press, New York. $3.50.

TRACK TECHNIQUES iLLUSTRATED, Don
Canham and Tyler Mieoleau. A. S.
Barnes and Company, New York.
$1.50.

WALK YOUR WAY To BETTER DANC-
ING, Lawrence Hostetler. A. S.
Barnes and Company, New York.
$3.75.

WALT DISNEY’S SNow WIIITE
TIIE SEVEN DWARFS. Simon
Sehuster, New York. 81.50.

WALT DISNEY’S UGLY DUCELING.
TIIE. Simon and Sehuster, New
York. $.25.

YOUNG SAILOR, TIIE, Guy Pennant.
Dodd, Mead and Company, New
York. $3.00.

AND
and

Magazines

 

BEACII AND POOL, April 1952

Let’s Change the Time of the indoor
Swimming Season, J. E. Counsil-
man.

Some Answers to Pool Operating
Problems, C. P. L. N ieholls.

The Swimming Pools at Lerittown.

Control of Athlete's Foot.

CAMPING MAGAZINE, April 1952

Understanding the Camp Cronp,
John A. Frederick.

You Can Put Real Camping into
Your Camp Program, Marjorie
Camp and Barbara l3. Jo '.

flow to Cut Maintenance Costs, W.
Glenn Wallace.

May 1952

To Learn to Live Together, Jack

\Vinans.

Conirol of Algae, Julian ll. Salo-
Inan.

Community Camp, Richard P. Over-
meyer.

JOURNAL or THE AMERICAN ASSOCIA-
TION I'oR HEALTII, l’IIYSICAL EDUCA-
TION. RECREATION, April 1952
The Fourth “li’ir-Rccreation, Louis

E. Means.
Steps Toward Better Accreditation,
William llnghes.

Recreation South
Carol Paradise.

of the Border.

RECREATION

PARK MAINTENANCE, February 1952
Before Painting, Scrub and Scrape
That Pool, K. T. Fezer.
Steel Pool May Be the Answer for
Your Community.
March 1952
Trilium . . . Amazing Soil Condi-
tioner for Clays and SiltS.
New Chemical Retards Grass to Save
Cutting.
April 1952
Gripes Invited—in Public Opinion
Survey of Parks.
Wading Pools Are Never Failing
Attraction for the Small Fry.
Admission Tax Rulings Under New
Law.
SCHOLASTIC COACH, April 1952
Golf Without Fears, Ralph E. Hens-
lcy.
TODAY’S HEALTH, March 1952
Country Club for the Handicapped,
F. Hall Roe.
UNDERSTANDING THE CHILD, January
1952
Keep That Spark of Faith Alive,
James L. Hymes, Jr.
YOUTH LEADERS DIGEST, January 1952
TV and Boys Clubs, Howard G.
Gibbs.

Pamphlets

BETTER LIVING BOOKLETS: Helping
Children Understand Sex, Lester A.
Kirkendall; Parents and Teachers as
Partners, Eva H. Grant; Your Child
and Radio, TV, Comics and Movies,
Paul Witty and Harry Bricker; Your
Children’s Manners, Rhoda W. Bac-
meister, Science Research Associ-
ates, 57 West Grand Avenue, Chi-
cago 10, Illinois. $.40 each.

CAMP ORGANIZATION FOR PROGRAM,
Gcrald P. Burns. American Camp-
ing Association, Chicago. $.50.

CAMP REFERENCE AND BUYING GUIDE.
American Camping Association, Chi-
cago. $2.00.

CAMPING AND OUTDOOR RECREATION IN
CALIFORNIA. California State De-
partment of Education, Sacramento.

CHILDREN’S BOOKS . . . FOR EIGHTY-
FIVE CENTS OR LESS, Beatrice Davis
Hurley. Association for Childhood
Education International, 1200 Fif-
teenth Strect, Northwcst, Washing-
ton 5, D.C. $.50.

CONSERVATION IN CAMPING. American
Camping Association, Chicago.

CRAFT METALS. T. B. Hagstoz and
Son, Philadelphia.

EDUCATION AND NATIONAL SECURITY,
National Education Association,
1201 Sixtccnth Street, Northwest,
Washington 6, D.C., and American

Council on Education, 1785 Massa-

SEPTEMBER 1952

chusettS Avenuc Northwest, Wash-
ington 6, D.C. $.50.

ENVIRONMENT AND HEALTH, Federal
Security Agency Public Health Serv-
ice. Superintendent Of Documents,
Government Printing Office, Wash-
ington 25, D.C. $.75.

EKECUTIVE’S HANDBOOK OF THE AMER-
ICAN BASEBALL CONGRESS. The
American Baseball Con'gress, Battle
Creek, Michigan. $.60.

FEELINGS ARE FACTS, Margaret M.
Heaton. San Francisco Board of
Education, San Francisco. $.25.

FUNDAMENTAL LINE DRILLS FOR LINE
SKILLS IN THE “T” FORMATION, Jim
Bonder. William C. Brown Com-
pany, 915 Main Street, Dubuque,
Iowa. $1.50.

GATEWAY T0 CITIZENSHIP, Carl B. Hy-
att. Superintendent of Documents,
United States Government Printing
Office, Washington 25, D.C. $.75.

HALF AN HOUR FROM HOME. Onon-
daga County Park and Regional
Planning Board, Syracuse, New

York.

HANDBOOKS: For Teaching Piano
Classes. 0n 16mm Films for Music.
Education. Music Educators Na-

tional Confcrcncc, 64 East Jackson
Boulevard, Chicago 4. $1.50 each.

HEALTH OF YOUR CAMP, THE. Boy
Scouts of America, New York. $.60.

HEALTHY PERSONALITY FOR YOUR

CHILD, A. Children’s Bureau, Fed-
eral Security Agency, Washington
25, D.C. Free.

HOW TO IMPROVE YOUR SPORT SERIES:
Archery, Badminton, Baseball, Bas-

ketball,‘ Bowling, Tennis, Tumbling,

Volley Ball. The Athletic Institute,
209 South State Street, Chicago.
3.50 each.

JUNIOR LIFE ADJUSTMENT BOOKLETS:
Life with Brothers and Sisters, Fran-
ces ['llman; You and Your Prob-
lems, Stanley E. Dimond. Science
Research Associates, Chicago. 3.40
each.

LADIES’ GLOVEMAKING, Virginia
Groneman. Charles A. Bennett Com-
pany, Peoria, Illinois. $.50.

Here’s an offer you
will want to accept

TO let you become well acquainted with the Nation’s leading maga-
zines in maintenance for the park and recreation industry, we will
send you the next six issues for only one dollar. (Regular price is

$3.00 per year.)

Start now so you will receive the Buyers’ Guide
Directory Of over 500 suppliers in our October

issue.

PARK MAINTENANCE

P. O. BOX 409

APPLETON, WISCONSIN

AWARDS YOU CAN AFFORD

OVER
DEPARTMENTS

IOO RECREATION
USING

OUR PLASTIC TROPHYS

WRITE TODAY FOR

 

FREE SAMPLE

 

Measurement and Evaluation in Physical
Health and Recreation Education

Leonard A. Larson and Rachael Dunaven
Yoeom.  Y. Moshy Company. St. Louis.
$7.50.

Recreation workers who have taken cle-
mentary courses in measurement and evalua-
tion in physical education. or elementary
eourses in statistics. will be interested in
this new text by two members of the educa-
tion department of New York University.

As far as recreation is concerned. how-
ever. the concept held by the authors ap-
pears limited to activity and morc spes
eifically to the physical activity aspects of
recreation. The emotional and other non-
physical outcomes are treated by implica-
tton.

A large part of the hook (nearly 200
pages) is devoted to physiological and other
physical measurements useful to physical
education peOple. Other sections deal with
measurement of knowledge and motor skills.
and with administration of the measurement
program.

This is actually two books. one on meas-
nrenient techniques. particularly in physical
aml health education. and the other on
statistical techniques. It is the hope of the
authors that the material presented on “The
Evaluation of thc Operational Factors of
Programs" will stimulate research on the

construction of evaluation instruments.—
Darld Donors. ARA liesearch Department.

Creative Drainatics
in Home. School and Community

liuth Conser Lease and Geraldine lirain

Siks. llarper and llrothers l’uhlishers.

New York. $1.00.

All recreation leaders. teachers and ar-
ems who think of dramatics for chil ren
only in terms of “children's theatre" or
drama performed for a child audience. with
staging. costmning. and the like. should
consider thls hook I must. So. also. should
tliose leaders already concerned with this
activity. who are looking for new and stimu-
lating ideas.

Creative dromatics is the term gisen to the
form of drama which exlsts for the child
participant. ll is a way of teaching. for
adultsna way of learning. for children.
It is not concerned with training children
to become actors. nor in ereating plays for
an audienCr. but is aimed toward the the
selopment of the whole child. melally.
emotionally. intellectually. physically aml
spiritually.

This hook presents a praetlcal philoso-
phy and technique of creative teaching. In
addition to sections on how to guide chil-
dren in creative dramatics. dramatic play
on the lower elermntary level. creative dra-
matles in the upper elementary and junior
high school levels and learning through

218

new Publications

Covering the -

Leisure-time Field

creative drainatics. it includes sections on
this activity in the home. in community and
recreation programs. Another is devoted to
leadership.

Say the authors. “It is true that many
leaders will have a special flair for creative
dramatics. but sincerity. enthusiasm and
common sense will go a long way in help-
ing a person who is willing to work crea-
tivcly with children. . . . If a leader has
faith in what she is doing. she will grow
immeasurably along with the children. and
creative dramatics can take them wherever
they choose to go—to the mountains of
Tibet. to King Arthur's Round Table. or
up to the moon in a shoebox.

“A mother. teacher. any adult leader who
really cares for children and who guides
them slowly but surely into an appreciation
of their cultural heritage. will he doing far
more than she may ever realize to build
future patrons in the tine art of living."

An appendix of the book carries listings
of material for dramatization. categorized
according to subject-matter and age-groups.
An excellent bibliography is included.

Recreation for the Blind
Charles E. Buell. American Foundation for

the Blind. New York. $.45.

Dr. Buell. director of hysical education
at the California School or the Blind. and
author of the well-known book. Sports for
the Blind. discusses. in this new pamphlet.
the psychological aspects of recreation for
the blind. emphasizing that “busync:~~a" is
not the answer. The aim should he to fit
the person for normal living. Recreation is
one of the major forces in preventing a
blind person from slipping into apathy. with
accompanying physical. mental and emo-
tional problems. for this reason. it is vcry
important that an inexpensive publication
of this kind can be made available. as a
guide for agencies. organizations. leaders.
friends and relatives of a blind person or
persons.

The many hobbies and leisure-time ac-
tivitiea that can he learned and enjoyed
without sight are discussed. One chapter ex-
plains how many of the games familiar to
all can he adapted very simply for the blind.
and includes a rotative party plan. Another
chapter outlines sim le techniques for..mak-
ing softball. foothal . swimming. golf. and
other 9 ports. potl‘dllll" for the blind or par-
tially thud—Virginia Mussciman. Corre-
spondence and Consultation Senice. NRA.

Understanding Children's Play

liuth H. llartley. LIwrence K. Frank. Rob-
ert M. Coldenson. Columbia University

Press. New York. $3.50.

A report of an exploratory study of play
and its efl'ect on the development of young
children. made by the Caroline Zachry In-
stitute under a two~year grant from the Na-

tional lnstitutc of Mental Health. this book
is published through a grant from the New
York State Mental llealth Authority.

Stimulating and revealing. it should be
very useful in the areas of training nursery.
play. kindergarten and elementary teachers.
It urges devel0ping the full potentialities
of toys. games. creative materials and play
activities. for fostering personality growth.
and helping parents provide suitable play
materials for their children. It brings out.
to an amazing degree. the need that chil-
dren have for time. space. play materials
and experiences. and it crnphasizes the
important point that children. when playing.
are not just cngaged in self-expression.
but also in self-discovery. In play. a child
can manipulate. organize. change and re-
arrange his small world of toys and ma-
terials. gradually lcarning to get along with
himself and with others. "To read the lan-
guage of play is to read the minds and
hearts of children." ‘

x x x

Material based upon obscrvation of nurs-
ery school children in ex loratory projects
with puppets. miniature life toys. and in
planned play groups. has been condensed
into two additional pamphlets. Growing
Through Play and New Play Experiences
for Chiidrcn. each priccd at $.75. available
from same publishers.

Here's How and “hen

Arinilda li. Kciser. Friendship Press. New

York. Cloth. $2.75; paper. $1.50.

A delightful book of creative activities.
llinging primarily on the world friendship
theme. but never obvious or "preacby." this
is written in a breezy style. Janet Smalley
has illustrated it with clever. humorous
sketches. adding greatly to its charm. All
of the games. crafts. and other projects. are
in excellent taste. and there's a grcat deal
of good program material between these
gay covers.

llnmespnn Crafts

F1. Kenneth liaillic. liruce l’nhlishing Com-
pany. Milwaukee. $3.00.

This is the clearest and best illustrated
book on simple craft projects we have seen
in many months. Utilizing only easily ob-
tained materialp—usually those which can
he found in any catch-all closet—the author
gives excellent instructions and drawlngs for
useful and decorative items which anyone
can make. l’resented so as to require a
minimum of preliminary work. projects are
described for leather. wood. metal. felt.
glass and seseral miscellaneous matcrials.

With Christmas in mind. we recommend
this book not only as a guidc for those
who would like to make gifts for others.
but we recommend the book itself as an
excellent gift—-to be given early so the re-
cipient may use lt.

lt acnasrrox

 

Recreation Leadership Courses

Sponsored by the National Recreation Association
and
Local Recreation Agencies

September, October, November 1952

HELEN DAUNCEY Paducah, Kentucky Joe Mitchell, President, McCraeken County Recreation Associa-
Social Recreation September 15—18 tion, The Paducah Sun-Democrat
Clanton, Alabama James H. Boockholdt, County Superintendent of Education
September 22-25
Columbiana, Alabama W. W. Elliott, County Superintendent of Education
September 29-October 2
Texas City, Texas Richard F. Keller, Recreation Director
October 6-9
Tyler, Texas Robert Shelton, Director, Parks and Recreation, City Hall
October 13-16
Bellaire, Texas Dick Gage, Superintendent, Parks and Recreation
October 20-23
Tulsa, Oklahoma Ccorge Taylor, Superintendent of Recreation, City Hall
October 28-31
Wichita Falls, Texas Albert LaCasse, Superintendent of Recreation and Parks

November 10-13

ANNE LIVINGSTON Mrs. Livingston will be on leave of absence during this period
Social Recreation

MILDRED SCANLON Miss Scanlon will be filling assignments in the Midwest District during the month of September
Social Recreation

Seattle, Washington National Recreation Congress
September 29-October 3

(As RECREATION goes to press plans are being made for Miss Scanlon to conduct a series of
training courses in the Pacrfie Northwest Distriet after the Congress. If interested in Open dates
write to C. E. Reed, Manager, Field Department, National Recreation Association)

GRACE WALKER Talbot County, Maryland Miss Kathleen A. Francis, Board of Education, Easton, Maryland
Creative Recreation SCptember 8-11
Cambridge, Maryland Mrs. Viola J. Comegys, St. Clair High School, Cambridge, Mary-
September 15-18 land
Seattle, Washington National Recreation Congress
September 29-0ctober 3
Montpelier, Vermont Mrs. A. 0. Brungardt, Vermont Director of Recreation
October 20
Wadesboro, North Carolina Mrs. Dorothy P. Goodson, Supervisor, Negro Schools of Anson
October 27-30 County
Durham, North Carolina Irwin R. Holmes, W. D. Hill Community Center, 1308 Fayette-
November 3-6 ville Street
FRANK STAPLES King County, Washington Robert C. Stephens, Superintendent of Park and Recreation
Arts and Crafts September 15-25 Department, 612 County City Building
Seattle, Washington National Recreation Congress
September 29-0etober 3
Klamath Falls, Oregon Robert E. Bonney, Superintendent of Recreation, City Hall

October 6-16

Attendance at training courses conducth by National Recreation Association leaders is usually Open to all who wish to attend.
For details as to location of the institute, contents of courses, registration procedure and the like, communicate with the sponsors

of the courses as listed above.

Hints and Helps for the Fall Holidays

Material to aid you in your planning for Halloween and Thanksgiving cele-
brations is available from the National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth

Avenue, New York 10, New York.

 

Halloween

All Set for Halloween (P 10)—|.orge-scole,
outdoor suggestions ond smaller-scole, in-

doorideos . . . . . . . . . $.15

Bring On Your Spooks (MB 1949)—Sugges-
tions for decorotions ond gomes . . $.10

Community Celebrates Halloween, The
(P 108)—Reports from many cities, with sug-

gestions for the whole community and for
neighborhood offoirs . . . . . . $.15

For a Halloween Party (MB 580)-Gomes,
contests ond fortunes for o porty . . $.10

Fun for Halloween (P 78)—Party plons
include decorotions, invitations, pre-porty
gomes, octive g-omes, quiet games, musicol
activities, stories, dromatics and 0 good bib-
liogrOphy . . . . . . . . . $.25

Games and Stunts for Halloween (P 113)
—lncludes a dance, fortune-telling, and so

forth...........$.15
Ghosts and All (MB 625)—A party plan $.10

Halloween Gambols (P 118)—A short ploy
in which the host is none other thon Mephi-
stopheles, ond there ore ghosts, goblins and

witches..........$.10

Halloween Party for Children, A (MB
1696)-House-to-house party with different
factivities at every stop olong the route $.10

Outline for Halloween (MB 2003)-l.ofo-
yette, louisiona, plons for grode porties $.10

Peter Pumpkin Eater (MP 202)—-A children's
ploy, bosed upon the old nursery rhyme $.15

Terrible Ghost Story, A (MB 267)-—Chills
ond thrills abound in this short, but effective,
ghost story . . . . . . . . . $.10

Window Painting for Holloween (P 116)

-Suggeslions for window pointing contests


Thanksgiving

Captain's Dilemma, The (MP 89)—A ploy-
let based upon the fomous courtship of
Miles Stondish . . . . . . . . $.10

Children of the Americas (P 117)—A pag-
eont depicting, through song ond dance,
historic periods of America . . . . $.10

Community Pageant for Thanksgiving
(M32010) . . . . . . . . . $.10

Faith of Our Fathers (MP 46)—A Pilgrim
pogeont. The first port tells of the Pilgrims,
brings out cleorly the signing of the May-
flower Campoct ond olsa contoins 0 scene of
the first Thanksgiving. The second part tells
of the foith of our fathers in modern

times...........$.25

Family Party for Thanksgiving, A (MB
1578)...........$.10

For a Happy Thanksgiving (Reprinted from
RECREATION) — Suggestions for a simple
harvest community night consisting of songs,
dances ond consideroble pogeantry. Also
suggests other possibilities for horvest enter-
toinments ond festivals . . . . . $.10

Harvest Home Thanksgiving Party (P
119) — Grand fun for a fomily celebra-
tion . . . . . . . . . . . $.10

Program for Thanksgiving, A (P 120)—
Eight tobleqUx with norratars . . . $.10

ThanksgivingCeremonioI, A (MB 1421)—
For church, School, community ouditorium
use. The Eorth Mother ond the Earth Chil-
dren toke port in o procession, followed by
groups of Pilgrims, pioneers ond those who
shore their offerings . . . . . . $.10

Thanksgiving Down on the Farm (MB
1892)—Decorotions ond gomes . . $.10

Three Thanksgivings, The (MP 51)-A No-
vember humoresque of the Thonksgivings of
the past, present ond future . . . . $.25

Turkeys in the Treetop (MP 407)-—Gomes
ond mixers for your party . . . . $.10

 

