 

k“

§%§%§%§£§%§%§%§%§Z§%§ZZ§%§%§%§%§%§%§

Our new home is lighted

 

 

8 West Eighth Street A
New York City

to all our

readers
contributors
. from
advertisers
Members of the Board,
the staff of the

National Recreation Association
and 2mm Magazine

§K§X£K§K§K§3K§K§K§K§5Z§E§5Z€§%§%§%§%§%§%§%§%§K§%§K§%

K

a
«z:
a
is:
a
a
a
5::
o»:
is:
a
i“:

2
oz:
a
a
«2%;
«>2
«2
«:2
a
a
a
a

iazazéxeza K§K§K§° K§°K€S Ké Xiifgi “gagsgaama 

No Matter Where You \Vork . . .

YOU NEED

RECREATION

s

PROGRAM AIDS

. . . Or \Vbat You Do

E

murmur?

2%"llllllllllll||llllllllllllllllllllllililllllllllllllll|ll||Illlllllll||||llllllllll||lIIHIWIHNWWWWIHWWMMWHE

It’s One Year Old in January

In 1954 subscribers receiver]:

48 bulletins on program activities
PLUS

over 50 booklets, flyers, brochures, charts, and
lists from other organizations, business and industry

Comments received from subscribers:

A RECREATION DEPARTMENT . . . . “Keep ’em rotting! .’ i”
A VETERANS HOSPITAL . . . . “RECREATION PROGRAM AIDS'has proven

itser very useful to me. Its variety of we” chosen and adaptable
suggestions and ideas shouid be stimtriating to at! types 0/ rec-

reation programs.”

A CLUB . . . . “I received iots of good ideas for recreational games for boys and

giris and oider peopie for our eiub.”

A COMMUNITY CENTER . . . . “I find RECREATION PROGRAM AIDS an

immense heip in at! phases of my work in a community center”

A PUBLIC SCHOOL . . . . “You are doing an exeeiient job and are to be highiy

commended—not oniy for the enormous amount of work done, but

the high quaiity of it!”

A STATE RECREATION COMMISSION . . . . “This is one of the most inclusive

and exeeiient pubiieations on activities of every kind that has ever

been pu biish ed.”

Can YOU afford NOT to get them?

Subscribe!
Increase your subscriptions!

 

 

 

 

Renew your subscriptions!

_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ..... _ .1
l NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION l
| 8 West Elghth Street |
I New York 11, New York I
I E] enter I 
I Please E] renew my subscription lsl I
1:] increase ‘
I to RECREATION PROGRAM AIDS I
I I 'd rk subsgrlptIons G? $5.00 per year (for non- I 
wou I e mem ers
I subscriptions @ $3.50 per year (for members I
I of the National Recreation Association— I
I only one subscription at this price with each I
membership)
I No e I COUPON
m ............................................................................. .. 

l E] Associate Member l
I Title ..............................................  .... ..|:] Amliote Member I
l I

Street Address ..................................................................... .. 
I I NO
I City _ . . Zone State ____ ._ I
l 1:] Bill me for- subscriptions l
I E] Check enciosed for subscriptions S._ __ _ I
L _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ._ J

DECEMBER 1954

 

 

 

Whatever the trait

you are teaching: woodworking, model
buiiding, leather, metol, plostics, ceromics

x-acto knives,
tools & sets

designed by craftsmen and precision-mode
for fine croitsmonship

will help you
do a better iob

by helping your students get better results
and more creative sotisioction.

Send for 16 page booklet “Helpful
Hints" on use of modeling tools—FREE.

Complete X-octo 28 page cotolog—FREE

dept. R-i2.

@x-octoi Inc.

48-41 Van Dam Street
.long Island City 1, N. Y.

World’s Most

Complete Source
For Gym Apparatus

EDART

Climbing Poles 8. ladders
Boxlng Rings l Bog Supports
Vouit, Jump l Game Standards
Stail Bars

Physical Fitness Apparatus
Rowing Machines

Puiiey Weights.~

Mots l Mot Trucks

Physical Therapy Equipment
Anthropometric Equipment
Bosketbail Bockstops
Bosketbaii Scoreboards
Footbali Scoreboards
Teiescopic Gym Seats

Steei lockers“!- lockerabes
Wire Baskets 8. Racks

. . . plus virtualiy any equipment
for the gym

561

 

eaasaaae'aasteasewmwaWWawemmwmazeamwawawmmmmmaaa‘

I. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
To: NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION

amiss“
A Pet Idea

for people on your Christmas list
who are interested in recreation

send them a gift subscription to

ZMWW

Ten times a year they’ll be reminded of your thought-
fulness when they receive the attractive issues of
“The Magazine of the Recreation Movement,” and
they’ll think of you again and again as they discover
the many articles tailored to their particular inter-
ests—whether they are professional recreation lead-
ers or volunteers, students or teachers; whether they
are interested in administration, personnel, program
or general articles; special groups or all groups; a
particular activity or an over-all plan—they’ll {ind
it in RECREATIQN.

o In all, they'll receive a volume of more than 500
pages of current, valuable information on the latest
trends and ideas in the rapidly growing recreation

field.

1 year $4.00 2 years $7.25

An attractive card will announce your gift!

Mail this coupon at once!

8 West Eighth Street
New York II. N. Y.

Please send gitt subscription. tor El | year $4.00
[I 2 years $7.25. with my personal greetings to:

I M

| Street

: City________Zone
I State

I $___enclosed.

I Sign my gift announcement card

I Name

is.

| City

reet

I State

wmx’mmummmsg

'aoes

  

' 1 

memaamsmamamm  3 . - - -.

 

And Another Pet Idea
Get this handy

MAGAZINE BINDER

For your
copies
of
RECREATION

  
 

Attractive

Convenient

Heavy simulated leather
Cold stamped

Opens flat for changes

Holds one year’s issues

Save your magazines to add
to your protessional library

FOR quick and easy reference; to keep your maga-
zines neatly, usably. The December issue always
carries the complete subject index for the year.
Keeping the magazines together in a binder gives
you a volume on all phases of recreation.

FOR students, instructors, recreation executives and
leaders in public or private agencies, church or club
leaders, volunteers, YOU!

MAIL THIS COUPON NOW

   

RECREATION MAGAZINE PLEASE FILL IN

8 West Eighth Street Year Number of Copies

New York 11, N. Y. 1954 ................................ ..
This is my order for ................ ..copies 1955 -------------------------------- ~-
of the RECREATION magazine binder. Undated ......................... ..

Name .................................................................................................... ..

Address ................................................................................................ ..

City ....................................................................................................... ..

Bill ....................................................................................................... ..

........................................................ ..; or Enclosed..............................

RECREATIOI‘

DECEMBER, 1954.

 

Editor in Chief, JOSEPH PRENDERCAST
Editor, DOROTHY Donawson
Editorial Assistant, AMELIA HENLY
Business Manager, ALFan H. WILSON
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Recreation Administration, GEORGE BUTLER
Program Activities, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

 

Vol. XLVII Price 50 Cents No. 10

 

) .
0n the Cover

OUR NEW' IIOME. Friendly warmth, gracious

dignity, and the spirit of recreation are keynotes of
the new headquarters of your National Recreation
Association at 8 West Eighth Street in New York.
Look upon it as your own headquarters when you
are in the city. Help in the creation of this spirit
and carry it forth into your centers, your play-
grounds, schools, churches, and homes—your town
-—where you have the opportunity to render a very
special kind of service in the building of a sense
of local, national, and world community and the
good life.

Next Month

We begin the New Year with attention turned to.
ward the swimming pool building boom across the
country with the first in a series of three articles
on the planning and construction of outdoor pools.
The January issne will also carry two articles on
synchronized swimming—one on what it is and the
Niagara Falls program and one on how-to-start syn-
chronized swimming. Among other articles: “l’lan-
ning of a Show Wagon,” “A Klondyke Party,” “Com-
munity Recreation,” “Music Comes to Main Street.”

Photo Credits

Pages 570, 572, 574, D. E. Roark, St. Louis; 571, 573,
588 (bottom left, right), 589 (center left, lower
center, center right), Wide World Photos Inc., New
York; 586, Donald L. Kneip, Augustana College,
Sioux Falls; 596, Cleanliness Bureau, New York.

 

RECREATION is ublished monthly except July and
August by the ational Recreation Association. a
service organization supported by voluntary contribu-
tions. at 8 West Eighth Street, New York 11, New
York; is on tile in public libraries and is indexed In
the Readers’ Guide. Subscriptions $4.00 a year.
Canadian and foreign subseription rate 34.50. Re»
entered as second-Class matter April 25. 1950, at the
Post Odice in New York, New York, under Acr of
March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate
of postage provided for in Seetion I 103, Ac: of October
5, 1917, authorized May 1, 1924. Microtilms of cur-
rent issues available University Microtilms, 313 N. First
Street, Ann Arbor, Michigan.

Space Representatives: H. Thayer Heaton. 141 East
44th Street, New York 17, New York; Mark Minahan.
168 North Michigan Avenue. Chicago, Illinois; Keith
H. Evans, 3757 Wilsbire Boulevard, Los Angeles 5, and
593 Market Street, Suite 304, San Francisco 5.
California.

Copyright, 1954. by the
National ReCreation Association, Incorporated

Printed in the U.S.A. 
t I
-$ to  , .34"

‘ Trade mark registered in U. S. Patent OtEce.

DECEMBER 1954

THE MAGAZINE

 

OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

CONTENTS

GENERAL FEATURES

Volunteers and Democracy (Editorial). .Eduard C. Lindeman 565

A Busy \Veck in St. Louis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . 570
Congress Capsules . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 575
One Body Plus One Mind Equals One Person . . Joseph Brown 576
Boeing Gets Set for Christmas Party. . . . . . . t . . . . . . . . . . . . . 579

The Case History of a Christmas Ilobby. . Blanche C. McGowan 580
The Christmas Prayer of the Children

of Alneriea. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Fred C. Morse 581
A Volunteer Program for Older Persons. . . . .Ruth M. Snyder 582
Carolcrs Sing for Everyone . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Emily Hulshizer 584
The 1right Before a Fire-Safe

Christmas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Captain Claude Conlin, Jr. 585
Sojourners in St. Louis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 588
Index to Volume XLVII, Reereation Magazine,

January—December 1954 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 611
Index of Advertisers for 1954 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . e 615
ADMINISTRATION
Recreation Facilities and Equipment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 590
Research Reviews and Abstracts . . . . . . . . . . .George D. Butler 593
Notes for the Administrator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 595
PROGRARI
Speeial Christmas Projects

Soapsud Snow . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  596

A Cotton Tree. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Iieatrice Ford Parker 597

Iloliday Hangers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 598
Developing Skills for the Retarded Child

(Idea of the Month)................ . . . . .  599
Hi Jinks! . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .I’atty Steere 600
A Christmas Angel (How to Do It!) . . . . . . . .Frank A. Staples 601
Christmas Cards from Scrap Materials . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 602

REGULAR FEATURES

Things You Should Know. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 566

Letters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 568

Reporters Notebook . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 586

Personnel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Raymond T. Forsberg 604

MarketNews.............. . . . . . . . . . . . . . ............606

Listening and Viewing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 607
Books and Pamphlets Received, Periodieals,

Magazine Articles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 608

New Publications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 610

Idea of the Month, Ilow to Do It!. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sce Program

Recreation Leadership Training Courses . . . . . .Inside Back Cover

563

 

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION

A Service Organization Supported by Voluntary Contributions

JOSEPH PRENDERGAST, Executive Director

 

The following national advisory committee of the National Recreation Associa-
tion has been set up to strengthen personnel work in the recreation field through the
cooperation of the Association and recreation executives and leaders throughout the
country, bringing about an alertness not only to local needs but to the needs of the
recreation profession and to the best use of the Association’s resources and services.

NATIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE
ON
RECRUITMENT, TRAINING AND PLACEMENT OF RECREATION PERSONNEL

W. C. SUTIIERLAND, Secretary
New York, New York

JOHN L. HUTCHINSON, Vice-Chairman

Columbia University
New York, New York

PAUL F. DOUCLASS, Chairman
Granville, New York

SUBCOMMITTEES

Recruitment

CHASE H. HAMMOND, Chairman
Muskegon, Michigan

E. COHYN BOWERS
Texas State College for Women
Denton, Texas

ELLEN E. HARVEY
University af Maryland
College Park, Maryland

L. J. HEEa
University of Kansas
Lawrence, Kansas

JAMEs F. HERDIC
Manchester, Connecticut

J. BERTRAM KESSEL
Boston University
Boston, Massachusetts

RosERT E. KRESCE
Charleston, West Virginia

NORMAN F. KUNDE
University af Washington
Seattle, Washington

DAvIO M. LANGKAMMER
Altoona, Pennsylvania

SAMUEL H. LAWTON
Troy, Ohio

RanRT E. MCBRIOE
San Francisco State College
San Francisco, California

HENRY F. MCFARLANO, JR.
Alhany, New York

ROSALIND T. MACARCEE
Decatur, Geargia

JACK PURYEAR
St. Petersburg, Florida

VERNA RENSYOLD
Kansas City, Missouri

W. A. RICHARDSON
Arlington, Vlrglnia

GEORCE T. SARCISSON
Wilmington, Delaware

JOHN G. SCHERLACIIER
West Virginia University
Morgantown, West Virginia

LILLIAN SUMMERs
American Red Crass
Washington, D. C.

JOE TRAPASSO
Branford, Connecticut

DoNALO C. WINCO
Norfolk, Virginia

Undergraduate EIIu cation

WILLIAM J. TAIT, Chairman
Flarida State University
Tallahassee, Florida

ROSERT F. BICLEY
Ithaca Callege
Ithaca, New York

CHARLES K. BRICIITsILL
University af Illinois
Urbana, Illinois

FRED M. COOMSS
Pennsylvania State University
State College, Pennsylvania

THOMAS J. DESMOND
Utica College
Utica, New York

THOMAS I. HINES
North Carolina State College
Raleigh, North Carolina

H. C. HUTCHINS
University af Wiscansin
Madison, Wisconsin

HowARD JEFFREY

West Virginia University
Morgantown, West Virginia
EARL KAUn-MAN, JR.
University af Kentucky
Lexington, Kentucky

THOMAS W. LANTz
Tacoma, W'sshington

ROY LEILICII
University af Florida
Gaincsville, Florida

KEITH A. MACDONALD
Vallejo, California

HARLAN G. MILTCALIP
State University a] New York
Cortland, New York

HAROLD I). MEYER
University of Narth Carolina
Chapel Hill, North Carolina

JOHN N. NICHOLS
Cedar Rapids, Idwa

WILLIAM E. RANDALL. JR.
University of Massachusetts
Amherst, Massachusetts

CLYDE STALLCUP
Shreveport, Louisiana

FoIIREsT W. WAKEFIELD
Council Bluffs, Iowa

MARY WILEY
San Jose State College
San Jose, California

JAMES A. WYLIE
Boston University
Boston, Massachusetts

Graduate Education

MILTON A. GAaRIELSEN, Chairman

New York University
New York, New York

JACKSON M. ANDERSON
Washington, District of Columbia

EDITII L. BALL
New York University

New York, New York

W. C. BATCHELOR
Ohio State University
Columbus, Ohio

JEAN SwENSON BRECK
University a! California
Los Angeles, California

FRED M. CHAPMAN
University af Minnesota
Minneapolis, Minnesota

H. G. DANFORO
Florida State University
Tallahassee. Florida

RUSSELL B. DAUaERT
Michigan State College
East Lansing, Michigan

FRANCIS DONNON
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

HARRY D. EDCREN
George Williams Callege
Chicago, IllinOiS

GARRETT G. EPPLEY
Indiana University
Bloomington, Indiana

GERALD B. FITECERALO
University af Minnesata
Minneapolis, Minnesota

H. RanRT GILES
University af Minnesota
Minneapolis, Minnesota

JAMES A. PETERsON
EnIporia, KansaS

SAL J. PREZIOSO
Scarsdale, New York

GOLDEN ROMNEY
State College of Washington
Pullman, Washington

ALLEN V. SAPORA
University of Illinois
Urbana, Illinois

BavERLY S. SHEFFIELD
Austin, Texas

A. E. WEATHERFORD
North Carolina Callege
Durham, North Carolina

CHARLES F. WECKWBRTH
Springjield Callege
Springfield, Massachusetts

In-Scrvice Training

RAYMONO T. FORsaERC, Chairman
Waterloo, Iowa

HARRY R. BRYAN
Sumter, South Carolina

JOSEPH CAvERLY
Freeport, New York

NAN CROW
CharIottesville, Virginia

JOSEPH E. CURTIS
Oceanside, New York

TIIEODORE R. DEPPE
Indiana University
Bloomington, Indiana

D. B. DYER
Milwaukee, Wisconsin

ALVIN ECCELINc
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma

LEON GREEN
University of Idaho
Moscow, Idaho

C. WEST JACOCKS
Columbia, South Carolina

' SIDNEY G. LUTzIN
Albany, New York

E. H. RECNIER
University of Illinais
Urbana, Illinois

J. A. REYNOLDS
Richmond, Virginia
HOWARD R. RICH
Sheboygan, Wisconsin
0. C. ROSE

Chicago, Illinois
WALTER L. SCOTT
Long Beach, California

DONALO F. SINN
Concord, New Hampshire

JULIAN W. SMITH
Michigan State College
East Lansing, Michigan

J. A. TURNER
St. Louis, Missouri

D. A. ZOOK
Salina. Kansas

Placement

JAY M.IVER LEE, Chairman
Oakland. California

R. FOSTER BLAISDELL
Topeka, Kansas

RanRT W. CRAWFORD
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

JOHN CRONIN
Providence, Rhode Island

STAToN R. CURTIS
Brunswick, MaiDe

J. J. DONOVAN

Chicago, Illinois
RUSSELL J. FovAL
Decatur, Illinois

WILLIAM FREDERICKSON, In.
Los AngeleS, California

R. P. HUNTER
Roanoke, Virginia

TEMPLE R. JARRELL
Ft. Lauderdale, Florida

WILLIAM H. KEELINC
Dallas, Texas

A. C. KERRY, JR.
LaGrange, Georgia

C H ARLES KUSS
I'ocatello, Idaho

ALPREO B. LAGASSE
Aurora, Illinois

MERRITT A. NELSON
Redding, California

JACKSON J. PERRY
Leominster, Massachusetts

E. STUART RICHTER
Colorado Springs, Colorado

FRANK M. SAaINo
Leonia, New Jersey

RanRT D. SISCO
Livingston, New Jersey

LOUIS F. TWARDZIK
Nashville, Tennessee

 

 

 

564

RECREATION

Editorial

VOLUNTEERS and DEMOCRACY

' IMAGINED that on a certain hour of a certain day
all of the volunteers in America quit. Not another
meeting. All stayed home. I tried to estimate how
many there would be. At that time, which was some
four or five years ago, the estimated number of vol-
unteers was about twenty million. There were then,
I assumed, about twenty million citizens who, day
in and day out, gave of their time and energy with-
out any recompense on behalf of the health, welfare,
and educational institutions of their community.
And then I allowed my imagination to wander: What
would happen? What events would take place if all
of the volunteers quit suddenly?

I don’t know how your mind would work in this
connection, but mine led me to the conclusion that
within six months we would become a dictatorship.
Within six months all of our free institutions would
be gone. All of our activities would be now suhsumed
in some form of bureaucratic olIicialdom. Nothing
would be left for the uncoerced individual to do. He
would have no task to perform.

I really believe that we would lose our democracy.
Maybe not in six months. My time schcdule was per-
haps a little accelerated. But certainly, within a deli-
nite period of time, without any opportunity for the
free choice of individuals, citizenship, democracy,
and freedom, I am sure, would disappear.

Never has it been more important that we assume
such volunteer obligations. We happen to have
reached one of those pcriods in history when the com-
plexity of the problem far outruns the available lead-
ership.

When this sort of situation prevails, the problems
and complexities seem to outrun the resources and
you get a kind of negativism, in which nearly all of
the descriptive phrases used about our society are
couched in negative tcrms. Arnold Toynbee calls
this the Age of Trouble. The psychiatrists call it the
Age of Anxiety. Four recent books were published
in New York, all of which have the word “fear” in
the title.

These are all negative terms, and obviously man

Dr. Eduard C. Lindeman

cannot live by negation. If I were asked to give a
recipe to people who want somehow or another to
find a way out of negation, I would say “volunteer.”
Find something to do in relation to human wclfarc.

We expect people in a free society to engage in
this kind of activity because they really care about
what happens to people. Th at means they are respon-
sible citizens. That is what the word “responsible”
means. It means “capable of responding to necd.”

In a society where there were not a prcponderant
number of citizens who really cared about what really
happened to people, there would be no sensc in free-
dom. There would be no demand for freedom at all.

The second reason we expect people to volunteer
to participate as citizens in the work of human wel-
fare is because we want them to demonstrate their
belief in the principles of voluntarism. I don’t bc-
licve you can have a free society unless you have a
large number of activities which are uncoerced and
function outside of bureaucratic control.

It was the French philosopher de Tocqueville who
stated that the health of a democratic society may be
measured in terms of the quality of functions per-
formed by private association. Not the quantity. The
mass quantity problems are not going to be solved
by private association. But the quality is measured
by what is done by the uncoerced free people.

The third reason we ask for volunteers on a wider
scale is that we must find some way of bringing about
a coalescence between the two great forces; namely,
democracy on the one hand, and science on the other.
How to do this, it seems to me, is the major task of
democratic peoples.

If then, the volunteers were to disappear from
American society, if men were to cease, either from
necessity or from choice, to exercise their right to
have active roles in the life of their community, then
only the shell of democracy would remain. When
men have surrendered the right to give of themselves,
their money, and their time, generously and volun-
tarily, to the causes which are dear to them, the heart
of a free society has ceased to beat.

The late DR. EDUARD C. LINDEMAN was an eminent sociologist of Columbia University,
well known for his writings and lectures. This is a condensation of one of his essays.

DECEMBER 1954

565

   

0..

) THE FIRST IN A NEW SERIES OF THREE
ARTICLES on the planning and construc-
tion of outdoor swimming pools, by
George D. Butler, will appear in the
January 1955 issue Of RECREATION. The
other two articles will be published in
our February and March issues. Mr.
Butler, director Of research for the N a-
tional Recreation ASsociation, is cur-
rently chairman Of the Committee on
Design for the Conference for National
Cooperation in Aquatics. He is author
of several well-known books in the rec-
reation field, notable among them, In-
troduction to Community Recreation,
McGraw-Hill, and Recreation Areas—
Tlieir Design and Equipment, A. S.
Barnes.

)WE REGRET TIIAT IT HAS BEEN IM-
POSSIBLE to obtain a copy of Dr. James
W. Clarke’s address at the St. Louis
Congress banquet for publication in the
magazine, as announced.

} FEDERAL FUNDS ARE TO AID small city
and regional area planning, according
to the American City of November.
Section 701 of the Housing Act of 1954
authorizes the appropriation of $5,000,-
000 to the Housing and Home Finance
Agency from which grants will be made
to state planning agencies for assistance
to municipalities with populations un-
der 25,000. Grants will also be made
in metropolitan and regional areas to
official state, metropolitan, or regional
planning agencies empowered under
state law to perform such planning.
The authorized planning assistance in-
cludes surveys, land-use studies, urban
renewal plans, technical services, and
other preliminary work, but excludes
plans for specific public works. A grant
may not exceed fifty per cent Of the es-
timated cost of the work.

) SERVICE CLUB LEADERS ARE INVITED
tO send to RECREATION magazine ac-
counts of successful recreation program
projects, ideas for parties and other ac-
tivities with a unique or Special slant.
We need how-tO-do information along
these lines to pass on to other leaders

566

75% @065 .350de Km .

in service clubs and in other recreation
organizations through the magazine.

) THE WEEK OF FEBRUARY 20-26, 1955,
will be observed nationally as the 21st
Annual Brotherhood Week, under the
sponsorship of the National Conference
of Christians and Jews. The free world
looks to the U. S. as a true democracy,
and observance of this week reminds
us that it is an important part of our
American responsibility to eliminate
discrimination and prejudice by reason
of race, creed, or national origin. Join
with other community organizations to
make this year’s Brotherhood Week the
best ever. Write to the National Con-
ference of Christians and Jews, 381
Fourth Avenue, New York 16, for sug-

gestions and program materials.

)HAS ANYONE INFORMATION about
playground equipment boxes that can
be used on a playground which has no
shelter building? If so, will you please
send this to RECREATION magazine?
Despite the great desirability of having
playground shelters or using facilities
in the school buildings, there is still
a need—in a number of communities——
for the use of temporary or undeveloped
sites which. for a time at least, do not
have any shelter buildings.

)A FEW COLLECTED SETS of the REC-
REATION magazine bibliographies which
were distributed singly in the discus-
sion sessions at the St. Louis Congress
are still available upon request.

) HIGHLIGHTS OF SEVEN DIFFERENT
TALKS on community recreation, deliv-
ered by Robert Horney, district repre-
sentative Of the National Recreation
Association, at regional park and rec-
reation meetings in Illinois under the
sponsorship of the Illinois Association
of Park Districts, will appear in the Jan-
uary 1955 issue of RECREATION.

)TO HELP LOCAL RECREATION AGEN-
CIES overcome a lack of familiarity with
TV techniques, formats, production re-
quirements, and scope, the National

Recreation Association is cooperating
in a special project with a number of
other national agencies through the
Committee on Educational Television
of the National Social Welfare Assem-

.hly—of which the National Recreation

Association is a member. The commit-
tee has prepared a guide of a two-day
local institute to be organized and con-
ducted cooperatively on the community
level. A copy of the guide is available
from the National Social Welfare As-
seInbly, 345 East Forty-sixth Street,
New York 17, New York, upon request.

)Two NEW IN-SERvICE TRAINING PUB-
LICATIONS, which are companion pieces,
are being published by the National
Recreation Association about the first
of January. Prepared under the super-
vision of the In-service Training Com-
mittee, of the NRA National Advisory
Committee on Recruitment, Training
and Placement of Recreation Personnel,
they are: Selection and Training 0)
Playground Leaders, prepared by Ray
Forsberg, Waterloo, Iowa; and In-serv-
ice Education for Community Center
Personnel, prepared by Don Dyer, Mil-
waukee.

) NEWLY AFFILIATED with the Nationa
Recreation Association are: West Vir
ginia State Recreation Society, Texas
Recreation Society, Wisconsin Recrea
tion Association, and Association 0'.
Southeastern State Park Directors.

} THE NRA MEMBERSHIP DIRECTORY f0
1955 goes to press in January. lt wil
list close to 3,600 active associate ant
afliliate members of the National Rec
reation Association as of January 1
1955. New applications should be i1
not later than December 31. Director:
for 1954—the largest one published t:
date—listed 2,940 members.

}SCHEDULES 0F NRA LEADERSIII
TRAINING SPECIALISTS (see inside bacl
cover) are, with few exceptions, fillet
until the first of April. Requests f0
service in April, May, and later shouL
be addressed immediately to C. E. Reed
Field Department, National Recreatio
Association, 8 West Eighth Street, NeI
York 11.

Order Your COpy Immediately

1954 PROCEEDINGS
ofthe

National Rccrcation Congress

$2.25

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
8 West Eighth Street
New York 11, New York

 

RECREATIO

  
  
  
 
 

It is also the expression of a ter-
vent 110pe that the Spirit of
Christmas may endure beyond
the holiday season, and that
highly placed men of all nations

may render more than lip service

 
   

567

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

b _ - - . . --
n- - - -0
- "H- .3.."--

     

.-
a.
.-
-..- -
- ~-==-
.-
----~

A

Hospital Recreation

   

Sirs:

Dr. Ball’s wise and timely article on
hospital recreation (RECREATION, Sep-
tember 1954) was published ust as our
third group of recreation workers
started a year’s interneship at our tiny
psychiatric hospital. Since their initial
orientation had been concluded only a
few days previously, it was interesting
to compare Dr. Ball’s philosophy with
what we had told our young trainees,
and heartening to find that our brief
experience in the field agreed with many
of the generalizations drawn by Dr. Ball
from her extensive knowledge.

With our own workers, for example,
we made the point that recreation goals
are identical wherever the program may
be conducted; that patients are always
people. We insisted that the pre-emi-
nent goal was fun, and we found our-
selves accenting a purpose which Dr.
Ball implies, but never makes quite ex-
plicit. We asked for realism, reminding
our workers that recreation programs
fdr a nursery and a bankers’ club are
naturally different, and that there was
little chance of our patients’ enjoying
either hopscotch or the pole vault. We
told them their recreation projects were
not therapy and that we were sure each
patient would welcome a chance to en-
joy himself spontaneously with no con-
cern as to what clinical significance
would be read into his actions.

We cautioned our trainees against
stereotypy, pointing out that there is no
formula for enthusiasm . . . We declared
that irritability, withdrawal, and melan-
choly are symptoms rather than pur-
posefully offensive character traits and
that a patient is no more to be blamed
for them than for a fractured leg. We
warned our workers that their ingenu-
ity and skill would be repeatedly chal-
lenged in the search for some human
hond of companionship to help the pa-
tient out of his loncliness and despair.

We compared the recreation worker’s
mission to that of the superhly accom-
plished hostess who makes every guest
feel the party is being held in his honor,
who unobtrusively provides the neces-
sary amount of initiative to keep every-
one interested and happy, who rcspects
and indulges each difference in taste
and opinion, and who, while acutely
conscious of the welfare of cvery guest,
manages to have a bang-up time herself.

Neither the skills nor the knowledge
necessary for professional recognition

563

accident;

 

in the field of hospital recreation are be-
yond human attainment. Yet these are
meaningless without the attitudes Dr.
Ball so rightly stresses. Is it not the real
problem of the school to promote ma-
turity in its graduates? Is not our prop-
er goal to help the graduate to be friend-
ly, generous, outgoing, tolerant, happy.
slow to take offense, eager to forgive?

PAUL HAUN, M.D., Clinical Director,
The Bowman Cray School of Merli-
cine, Wake Forest College, Winston-
Salem, North Carolina.

Proof of Readership

Sirs:

We have delayed thanking you for
listing our manual on Boys’ Club Build-
ing Planning and Construction in REC-
REATION Magazine because we thought
you would be interested in knowing the
number of requests received for the
manual. To date. over three hundred in-
dividuals and libraries have written to
us requcsting this material.

HOWARD M. WILLIAMS, Director of
Building Service, Boys’ Clubs of
America, New York.

Reereation and the Sellools
Sirs:

I am writing with reference to recrea-
tion in the schools. As the years go by,
I become more and more concerned
with this problem.

I have had the opportunity of going
through the recreational system in Seat-

tle, as well as various states, and I real- .

ize there is a pro and con on this very
important problem of just what we
should do and where we should start
with our recreation program. The
school authorities would like to see it
conducted through the schools . . .

In rcading the editorial written by
Dr. Partridge, in the school issue of
RECREATION [September, 1954],I think
he has pointed out very well what the
schools can do for recreation. I also
agree with his heading, “Recreation, A
Community Project”; and as such, I
believe it should be run by the govern-
ment of a community.

In using school buildings for recrca-
tion there is always the problem of di-
vided responsibility between the school
authorities and the recreation people.
In his article Dr. Partridge states that
developing a good recreation program
is, to a large extent, an educational pro-
cess. In some degree he is right; but he
has not gone far enough, for I feel that,

to have a good recreation program
there should be a selling program a
much as an educational one. A goo
program includes health and welfare 2
well as other phases.

I feel that we could all get along ve1
well if the schools would agree to hand
their end of recreation, and the recre:
tion department is allowed to functi01
under government control, as a sep:
rate department, such as the fire or tl
police department, which is given a frc
hand to cooperate with other civic o
ganizations in developing a better con
munity-wide recreation program fc
people of all ages. If recreation come

"under the schools, it will definitely l:

stifled and smothered by the superv
sion of personnel untrained in recre:
tion work.

I do not blame the schools for wan
ing to include recreation, but I do hol
the schools teaching recreation resp01
sible for not instructing our future leat
ers to stand on their own feet, and fc
not teaching these potential leaders th
art of selling the commodity of recrez
tion, which is so highly regarded in mo:
of our communities today. I would lik
to warn all communities to lay a goo
foundation for recreation by putting i
on its own and not placing the who]
burden of a community program 0
the schools.

I think it would be very interesting 1'
you could have a column in your mags
zine in which the various recreation d:
rectors could express their views on thi
matter. I, for one, went into recreatio
because it could be used on a communf
ty-wide basis, and it was up to me, a
a director, to mold it into a package the
would fit the needs of my community
It would be very difficult for me to wor
under a superintendent of schools, as
feel it would retard my usefulness to th
entire community.

In closing, I would like to sugges
that, as recreation directors, we shoul:
be very careful not to sell our recrea
tion independence short. We should b
willing to fight to keep it intact, even i
we do not have all the facilities w
would like to have today—there is a]
ways a tomorrow.

SELWYN ORCUTT, Superintendent
Recreation and Parks, Fayetteville
North Carolina.

0 Any Comments?—Ed.

Selling Reereation

Sirs:

In planning for National Book Week
I found that the Dormont Library wa
too understaffed to do anything in th
way of celebration for the week; 5:
we are ballyhooing a big “RecreatiOI
Books Display,” and in years to com'
will always be able to make this tie-in
RECREATION magazine, and Barnes ant

RECREATIOI

Noble and other companies have sent
covers for display, and the poster com-
mittee has produced three good posters.

In connection with public education
for public recreation, 1 gave a talk at
the local grammar school P.T.A. meet-
ing, at which they decided to raise
money for four playground leaders. The
sentence that seemed to sell them on the
idea was, “I feel like a principal who
has to open school without any teach-
ers.” I pointed out how foolish it was
to pay three dollars an hour for teachers
and spend so much money on schools
only to turn the children loose after
school, or, at best, put them under one-
dollar-an-hour “help.” In my talk I
stressed how much education and rec-
reation have in common and how many
recreation games stimulate learning.
All this, plus the fact that I had received
my degree in recreation administration
from Teachers College, Columbia Uni-
versity, helped my talk produce a rath-
er magical immediate response to my
plea for money for playground leaders.

I am sure the borough council will re- .

spond to the parents’ enthusiasm.

BARTON HAIGH, Director of Recrea- _

tion, Bo ro ugh of Dormant, Pitts-
burgh.

Help with New Balllhouse
Sirs:

Not long ago, we were paid an un-
expected visit by John Collier, district
representative of the National Recrea-
tion Association; and together we spent
the better part of one day observing the
activities and facilities Marquette offers
its citizens.

The city is seriously considering
building a new bathhouse at one of our
swimming areas, and Mr. Collier’s nu-
merous suggestions on cost, locker sys-
tems, what has turned out best in other
cities, and his knowledge of buildings
of this type have, greatly enhanced our
chances of going ahead with this pro-
ject.

Tentative plans call for promoting a

ation. After a twenty-nine-year opera-
tion here I believe we are at last on a
sound basis, and you can now see Dur-
.ham become an outstanding city in its
class for public recreation.

Thanks again for the help of the As-

sociation over a long period of years.

C. R. WOOD, Director, Department of
Public Recreation, Durham, North
Carolina.

Personnel Service
Sirs:

My object ill writing to you is two-
fold: (1) 1 should like to apply for
membership in the NRA, and (2) I
wish to thank your splendid organiza-
tion for certain services rendered. To

 

 

 

ave uoo :caaaz: ALREADY SKATING

start with the latter, 1 am obliged to ex-
press my dcep appreciation for the ef-
ficient and courteous service granted
me by your personnel department in the
course of gathering and sending refer-
enees to prospective employers. One of
your staff, Mrs. Mary Culiernat, de-
serves the high est commendation for
her unllagging kindness, patience, and
personal interest. It was unique in my
experience to be treated so considerate-
ly, especially since all was gratis. I feel
therefore that such an organization
merits my support.

May I wish you many successful
years in your new headquarters.

HOWARD PIERSON, B r o o h iy n , New
York.

SKATES FROM
AMERICA'S LEADING
SKATE DISTRIBUTOR

 

Its Easyi—Let Johnny Jones, Jr., America’s Largest Exclusive Roller Skate
distributor, help you and supply you in starting a Roller Skating Program. A
wonderful co-recreational sport, combining healthful exercise with low cost.
Halls, gyms, or any unused floor area can handle large groups quickly, easily.
For all your skate equipment needs, Johnny Jones, Jr. guarantees same-day
delivery—at factory prices. Everything in skates, wheels, parts, and all accessories.
Our representative will gladly call on you to discuss any floor program and

help get you started. Write for free “Skate Facts” Booklets.

NO SC RATC H—NO DAMAG

   

school for lifeguards and also bringing
resource men to Marquette to conduct
intensive two or three day workshop
programs that will benefit the entire
Upper Peninsula.

MORGAN CINGRASS, Recreation Direc-
tor, Marquette, Michigan.

We recommend Rubber-Tired Clamp .   
Skates by world-famous “Chicago”— ‘  -
guaranteed not to harm or mark waxed
floors. Also, complete stocks of wood
and fibre wheels.

 
 
 
 
   
 

“EVERYTHIAG [or the Share-r"

yo” N ES J *-
Representatives far

"CHICAGO" ROLLER SKATE co.

PITTSBURGH 19, PA.

Help with Tax Levy
Sirs:

You will be interested to know that
our $250,000 recreation bond election
and a ten cent permissive tax levy was
carried May 25, 1954 by slightly more
than a three-to-one majority. (3,226
for and 1,234 against—total vote 4,- .
510.) I

We do appreciate the interest and I
help of the National Recreation Associ- I

DECEMBER 1954

  

51 CHATHAM ST. '

When writing to our advertisers please mention REcaEanos.

 

WEEK OF busy and unusually good
meetings ended October first when
fourteen hundred of America’s profes-
sional recreation leaders and their lay-

men colleagues packed their bags and
departed from the 36th National Rec-
reation Congress in St. Louis. The big
annual meeting was over. They had
found that recreation has extended its
horizons and grown in professional atti-
tudes even during the one short year
since the Philadelphia meeting. This
was an observance of some substance,
for they had been spending an informa-
tive and challenging five days confer-
ring with representatives from forty-
eight states, the District of Columbia
and three foreign countries.

Seldom, if ever, has there been a
more rewarding Congress, if the dele-
gates’ own enthusiastic letters which are
pouring into the National Recreation
Association are any criteria. They were
taking home with them a renewal of
purpose for a more sound and vigorous
approach to their community recreation
jobs. As a man from Texas said, “I
received many new ideas and met many
wonderful peoplc. To me, the Congress
was one of the most outstanding events
I ever attended in my life. . .”

Another delegate sums it up, “There
was a startling difference this year, and
this. difference was in people. There
were many of the old, familiar faces, to

570.

be sure; but never, in my experience,
has there been so much enthusiasm
about, and satisfaction in, being a rec-
reationist.

“This change in people is of signifi-
cance because social movements are re-
Hections of people . . . Here, in a nut-
shell, is the distinguishing mark of the
maturing of a profession. The Congress
was good because alert practitioners are
sensitive to a culture expecting much
from recreation. That a man of the sta:

ture of C. D. Jackson can equate the'

survival of the free world with good
recreation is a ringing challenge stimu-
lating everyone in this field.”

More specifically, an oldtimer from
New Jersey writes: “The address at the
banquet was one of the finest presenta-
tions I have ever heard. It was worth
traveling one thousand miles to hear.
The younger men and women present
must have left the session with new hope
and renewed spirit that will have a real
impact upon the lives of thousands in
the various communities represented at
the meeting.” '

Leaders of all forms of rccreation had
converged from all parts of the country

by all means of conveyance. The J effer-'

son Hotel never knew what hit it, but
rose to the occasion staunchly. In ad-
dition to public park and recreation
agencies—city, county, state and fed-
eral—-—local volunteer recreation serv-

Congress delegates from New Hampshire
camped out in Forest Park. Donald Sinn of
Concord, lcft, and Fred M. Merrill of Roches-
ter share their coffee with Palmer B. Baumes,
St. Louis parks and recreation commissioner.

)4 8366.4? Weeé (In.

ST. LOUIS

REVIEW OF THE 36th NATIONAL RECREATION CONGRESS

ices,. Veterans Administration, the
Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines
schools, colleges and universities, social
agencies, hospitals, prisons, and othe1
institutions were represented. Dele‘
gates spilled over into other hotels as a
matter of course; but St. Louis really
sat up and took notice when the New
Hampshire delegation arrived with
sleeping bags, tents, cooking utensils
and set up ho'usekeeping in a city park.
They announced that they had come to
get a lot of information on the practical
side of camping; and during the week
they held a no-host steak fry at their
camp site. i

It was agreed throughout the week
that, although everyone was as busy as
in other years, the whole experience
seemed more pleasantly relaxed some-
how. Well-attended sessions moved in
a definite direction, and the purpose
and aims behind proposals for the field
were blocked in, in broad, bold strokes
in relation to today’s needs. Serious
attention was paid to the “why” as well
as the “how” of things.

Tips and Trends

As delegates milled about the hotel,
they were discussing such subjects as
master plans, evaluation—“quality” in-
stead of quantity, job analyses, re-
search, cooperation, better training and
higher standards, closer working rela-

RECREATION

tionships between unions and manage-
ment in recreation for business and in-
dustrial workers, playground equip-
ment so designed that it encourages
children to be creative and self-reliant,
the planning of recreation for “fringe”
areas, creative dramatics as a part of
living, hospital recreation as a neces-
sity, recreation as an integral part of a
prison program. Although this last
trend is yet young, and there is much
to be done in the way of interpretation
to the public, ofiicials who were present
cited the old Chinese proverb: “It is
better to light one candle than to curse
the darkness.”

General concern was eXpressed as to
whether college curricula in recreation
are adequately preparing students for
leadership in the various types of rec-

quency alone. Consideration was given
to what can be done with and for to-
morrow’s citizens, rather than to exist-
ing program activities in some few iso-
lated localities.

Delegates were reminded that the
“latchkey children” of World War II
have now reached their teens, armed
with attitudes formed while Mom was
working in a warplant and couldn’t be
home when they arrived from school;
and that one of our biggest problems is
to get the family back together again
as a unit. They were concerned about
the poor example so often set for teen-
agers by adults, whom the young peo-
ple are bound to copy. A panel of teen-
agcrs from St. Louis, under the dircc-
tion of Virgil L. Border of the National
Conference of Christians and Jews, gave

 

The eonferees’ wives were an aetive group. Here they receive some souvenirs of the
Congress. From left to right: Mrs. W. James Marshalsea, Hempstead, New York; Mrs.
Bob Garrett, Amarillo, Texas; Mrs.'Alfred Guarnieri, I'Iempstead, New York; Mrs.
Earl Harris, La Habra, California; and chairman, Mrs. Frank Dunnagan, St. Louis.

rcation Helds, and this matter came up
again and again in avariety of meetings,
accompanied by constructive sugges-
tions. Debate was hot and heavy among
college educators and potential employ-
ers in the various special meetings on
the subject.

And among other things, of course,
delegates were talking about today’s
youth. They learned that we must have
more faith in our teen-agers, that only
a very small per cent cause trouble.
There were troublemakers in Grandpa’s
day, too; but today, those who behave
themselves take a lot of undeserved
blame. Recreation should be looked up-
on as a builder of character, and not as
a means of fighting juvenile delin-

DECEMBER 1954

the teen-agers, point of view and ad-
monished their leaders to: let teen-agers
help in planning their own activities;
be young in mind, but not dress like a
tecn-ager; avoid being bossy; remcm-
ber that teen-agers know when adults
are blulling and soon lose interest.

Layman Participation

In addition to the general participa-
tion in all aspects of the Congress, the
value of lay interest to any great move-
ment was amply illustrated hy the valu-
ahle contributions of representatives of
citizens’ groups. They chaired and took
part in many meetings—large and small.
More community recreation executives
than ever hefore hrought interested

board or commission members with
them. Two discussion sessions especially
planned for these representatives were
chaired by Horace 'B. Garman, presi-
dent, Playground and Recreation Board,
Decatur, Illinois, and Mrs. Everett M.
Findlay, past-president, Long Beach
Recreation Commission, California.
Panel members for each of these meet-
ings were respectively: E. H. Herrod,
chairman, Parks and Recreation Com-
mission, North Little Rock, Arkansas;
Julius Junge, president, Board of Park
Commissioners, Davenport, Iowa; Glen
E. Smith, chairman, Recreation Com-
mission, South San Francisco Recrea-
tion, Park and Parkway District, Cali-_
fornia; with Marjorie M. Dickinson,
executive secretary, Illinois Association
of Park Districts, Springfield, as sum-
marizer; and Mildred G. Johnson,
member, Recreation Commission, Oak-
land, California; J. C. Kubacki, presi-
dent, Board of Recreation, Reading,
Pennsylvania; Richard G. Zellhoefer,
chairman, Waterloo Recreation Com-
mission, Iowa; with James A. Downey,’
J r., prcsidcnt, Park and Recreation
Board, Birmingham, Alabama, as sum-
marizer. .

Members of the Board of Directors
of the National Recreation Association
who also played an active part wcrc
Otto T. Mallery of Philadelphia, chair-
man of the board; Gaylord Donnelley,
third vice-president; Henry W. Mcers
of Chicago; Mrs. Rollin H. Brown of
Los Angeles; and Mrs. Paul Gallagher
of Omaha, Nebraska. Arthur B. Shep-
ley, Jr., St. Louis attorney, who is an
NBA sponsor, was active throughout the
week, as were other sponsors.

Among those arriving to deliver spe-
cial addresses or otherwise take part in
the big meeting were C. D. Jackson, vice-
president of Time, Inc.; Soichi Saito,
president, National Recreation Associa-
tion of Japan; Genzaburo Shirayaina,
former Olympic swimmer and delegate
from the National Recreation Associa-
tion of Japan; Beulah Gundling, senior
national AAU solo synchronized swim-
ming champion. Notahles from'St.
Louis included Mayor Raymond B.
Tucker; Alhert P. Greensfelder, chair-
man, St. Louis County Park Board; and
Harland Bartholomew, city planner;
and the inspiring banquet speaker, Dr.
James W. Clarke. Also present were

571

representatives of the Special Services
of the Army, Navy, Marines, and Air
Force.

Wives of delegates again turned out

,. in.admirable force, and had their own

affairs well in hand under the able
chairmanship of Mrs. Frank Dunnagan
of St. Louis. They were entertained at
a garden luncheon by Mr. and Mrs.
August Busch, Jr., at their farm home
which at one time had been the resi-
dence of General Grant. Other than this
they participated, as usual, in the social
functions of the Congress, aided and
abetted their husbands in all projects
afoot, attended sessions and went shop-
ping for souvenirs.

Congress Services

Exhibits of recreation supplies and
equipment by commercial exhibitors
were especially good this year. One
delegate has written that they, alone,
were worth his long trip. He had been
able to order some necessary and very
satisfactory materials.

New services, such as the Combined
Book Exhibit of book publishers, “The
Scoreboard”———a daily news sheet of
Congress doings, the use of a public ad-
dress"'-system, and a special message
center were well received. Delegates
seemed to appreciate the Opportunity of
browsing among the representative col-
lection of current recreation books and
ordering them on the spot. The book
display marked the opening of the Na-
tional Recreation Association’s new
book service. (See RECREATION, Sep-
tember 1954, page 391.)

Bibliographies of RECREATION mag-
azine articles and NRA publications on
the subject under discussion were dis-
tributed in each section meeting, and
all NBA publications were again on dis-
play in the consultation center.

Greetings

Greetings and good wishes were re-
ceived from many sources, first among
them being a message from President
Eisenhower who said: “Your organiza-
tion is serving a most useful function in
American life by helping our people use
their leisure to their own and to their
fellow citizens’ best advantage. In this
worthy endeavor all of you have my
very best wishes.”

Among others came a letter from G.

572

 

Dorothea Lenseh, Portland, Oregon, chairman of the National Advisory Committee
on Programs and Activities, outlines future plans and projects of the committee for
Ray Forsberg, Waterloo, Iowa, chairman of the Subcommittee on Arts and Crafts.

Mennen Williams, Governor of Michi-
gan, which read, in part: “All of our
citizens owe a great debt to your efforts
in behalf of our people, assisting them
to better utilize the increasing leisure
which our technology has given us. In
a day when so much of the nation’s
time is taken up with the pressing prob-
lems which world leadership has pre-
sented to us . . . The efforts of your or-
ganization have made life a good deal
more interesting and fruitful.”

Special Meetings

The Special all-day conferences1 took
place on Monday as usual, regular Con-
gress sessions beginning on Tuesday
morning at 9:15. Other special meet-
ings and conferences, breakfast, lunch-
eon and dinner get-togethers through-
out the week included the first meeting
of the National Recreation Associa-
tion’s new National Advisory Council;
the American Recreation Society an-
nual luncheon and business meeting2;
a dinner, at which Joseph Prendergast,
executive director of the NRA, was 'host
to the presidents of state recreation so-
cieties, for the purpose of discussing
ways in which the Association can be
of more help to the societies; the meet-
ing of Federation of National Profes-
sional Organizations for Recreation, at
which Dr. Garrett Eppley of Blooming-
ton, lndiana, was elected president; the
annual New England dinner; and a
Southern District and a Georgia State
breakfast. A gay reunion of those dele-

1 See page 575.
2 See page 586 for new ARS officers.

gates who traveled together on the spe-
cial tour through Yellowstone en route
to the Seattle congress covered a break-
fast and movies of that trip and again
illustrated fellowship within the ranks.
In addition, one of the important devel-
0pments of this congress was a series of
meetings of the Association’s special ad-
visory committees, including those on :,
administration; ‘international recrea-
tion; recruitment, training and place-
ment; research; state; and defense
related services. At this last, Dr. Sher-
wood Gates, chief of the Office of Com-
munity Services, Department of the Air
Force, Washington, D. C., declared:
“The Air Force is a married man’s insti-
tution. There are only a few wild-blue-
yonder boys left . . . These military
families must be identified with the best
of American life. Community recrea-
tion must help integrate military fam-
ilies into community leisure activities.”

Bits from General Sessions

General sessions were held in the
morning as well as in the evening this
year. The first, in the ballroom on Mon-
day evening, marked the official open-
ing of the Congress and was chaired by
Gaylord Donnelley, president of R. R.
Donnelley and Sons of Chicago, and a
member of the Board of Directors of the
National Recreation Association. First
speaker of the evening was Soiclii Saito,
president of the National Recreation As-
sociation of Japan. “We live in a world
community,” said Mr. Saito, “and it is
no exaggeration to say that through rec-
reation we can really understand each

RECREATION

other deSpite differences in nationality,
race, sex, or religion . . . Our recreation
organization in Japan is young, and we
need your cooperation . . . Japan needs
recreation. We must brighten the lives
of our people.”

He was followed by C. D. Jackson.
former special assistant to President
Eisenhower and now vice-president of
Time, Inc. Mr. Jackson held that the
West can coexist with Soviet Russia as
long as there is a “spirit to win without
war” and emphasized that through the
intelligent development and practices of
recreation, not just as fun but as an im-
portant part of a way of life, the neces-
sary spirit can be achieved. “American
leadership is not an American choice;
but almost a contemporary law of na-
ture,” he said, “. . . and we are con-
fronted with this problem in more dif-
ficulties than we have faced as a nation.
. . . I believe that the concept inherent
in this word recreation will have some-
thing to do with the development of that
leadership.” After the addresses were
over, a musical revue, “Industry at
Play,” was presented by employees
from the recreation units of local indus-
trics. Plans for the revue included a
later showing for employees of the
plants.

On Tuesday morning at 11:15, Jo-
seph Prendergast and George Hjelte of
l.0s Angeles, chairman of the National
Advisory Council of the National Ree-
reation Association, gave “state-of-the-
nation” talks about the current national
status of the recreation movement and
specific projects of the Association.
Said Mr. Prendergast: “There is a dif-
ference today between America’s atti-
tudes toward recreation and its atti-
tudes toward many other social services.
No one thinks it is a ‘good’ thing for a
child to have a school to go to or for a
community to have a fire department;
these are essential community services.
Recreation does not yet enjoy this sta-
tus. Most citizens are pleased when they
find playgrounds, but are not deeply
shocked when they do not exist . . .”
He emphasized that we in the recreation
movement must be the enthusiasts in-
sisting that the recreation we have today
is not suflicient for our society and that
much broader and more effective ree-
reation must be developed. Mr. Hjelte

told delegates that “recreation stands

DECEMBER 1954

on the threshold of tremendous develop-
ment” and pointed out that the National
Committee on Economic Development
predicts an annual expenditure of more
than thirty billion dollars for leisure-
time services and commodities in the
next twenty-five years.

The Wednesday morning general ses-
sion was devoted to the NRA-sponsored
Southern Regional Study of Recreation
Leadership, under the chairmanship of
Otto T. Mallery, chairman of the Board
of Directors of the Association. “The
growth of the recreation profession has
been phenomenal,” said Dr. Doak S.
Campbell, president of Florida State
University and first speaker, “greatly
exceeding the percentage of growth in
the nation as a whole. From 1940 to
1952, the number of year-round, full-
time community recreation workers in-
creased four-fold.” Dr. William J. Me-
Glothlin, consultant for professional
programs for the Southern Regional
Education Board and second speaker on
the program, reported the discovery of
three broad and profound lacks: “The
field of recreation lacks trained people;
it lacks a sufficient number of graduates
entering it to maintain the profession:
and the schools, with few exceptions.
lack enough students to justify adequate
faculty. The solutions must grow out
of the definition of the lacks.
schools could be expanded substantially
if warranted by student demand.”

The Wednesday evening session was

Present

devoted to recreation planning in St.
Louis, and was chaired by Harland
Bartholomew, city planner. Mayor Ray-
mond R. Tueker of that city stated that
it is the duty of our federal, state, and
local governments to assist individuals
in their pursuit of happiness. “We in
St. Louis look upon this as a function of
an urban democratic government.” he
said. “I believe a sound recreation pro-
gram to be essential to both physical
and mental health of a modern city."
Mrs. Rollin Brown of Los Angeles, vice-
president of the National Council of l’ar-
ents and Teachers and member of the
NRA Board of Directors, emphasized
the fact that any municipal program
must be conceived through master plan-
ning. “It must be nourished on the
close coordination of all groups and
agencies concerned with recreation,"
said Mrs. Brown. “The school systems,

private agencies, libraries. and similar
agencies must share in the planning for
municipal recreation.” Other members
of the evening panel were: Bhodell E.
Owens, superintendent of parks. Peoria,
Illinois; Mrs. Edward G. Brungard. di-
rector of public welfare, St. Louis: J.
E. Auchly, vice-chairman, St. Louis
County Park Board; and Luman F.
Matthews, supervisor, St. Louis County.

At the Thursday morning session.
also chaired by Mr. Mallery, Joseph
Brown, associate professor, School of
Architecture and instructor in boxing
in the Department of Physical Educa-
tion and Athletics, Princeton Univer-
sity, discussed the philosophy behind
his “play community,” and demon-
strated models of play equipment which
he had designed. (.For an article about
this, see page 576.) At this meeting a
citation was awarded the National Rec-
reation Association by the National Citi-
zens Committee on Educational Tele-
vision, with Raymond H. Wittcoff,
chairman of that organization and vice-
president of the St. Louis Educational
Television Committee, making the pre-
sentation. Mr. Mallery accepted in be-
half of the Association.

Thursday evening was the occasion
of the most gala meeting of the week-—
the annual banquet, at which guests
mixed business and pleasure in the gay-
ly gracious atmosphere of flowers, good
food, good speeches. and fun. in keep-

Alfred Jensen of the NRA Personnel Serv-
ice and Isabel C. Auld, ARC personnel
assistant, Midwestern Area, discuss the
need for more women recreation leaders.

 

ing with the banquet theme, “Aboard
the S. S. Congress,” the St. Louis Rec-
reation Department had created favors
which were cunning, miniature Missis-
sippi showboats. While waiting to be
served, guests were entertained by wan-
dering magicians and minstrels. After
dinner, the chorus of the Clayton, Mis-
souri, chapter of SPEBSQSA sang sev-
eral numbers as only barbershOp quar-
tet singers can. The more serious
business of the evening started with
Henry W. Meers of Chicago, board
member of the National Recreation As-
sociation, acting as toastmaster, and
culminated in a real treat with the stir-
ring address given by the well-known
Scotch Presbyterian minister of St. Lou-
is, Dr. James W. Clarke. “The total man
suffers when recreation is neglected,”
Dr. Clarke told his spellbound audience.
“Your vocation is the most important
because it is with the living. You can
rescue those who are merely existing,
those who are half-dead, and re-create
them into the whole man each cannot be
without you. Your ruling moods must
be faith—faith in yourself and in your
work—responsibility and enthusiasm.”
At the close of his remarks, the guests
gave him a standing ovation.

The final general session, Friday
morning, “How to Use the St. Louis
Congress to Forward Our Recreation
Programs,” was chaired by Mrs. Paul
Gallagher, member of the National Rec-
reation Association board. and was ad-

 

The delegates appreeiated the opportu-
nity to browse through the varied selee-
tions offered them at the eonibined book
exhibit of the eonimereial publishers who
are eooperating with the National Recre-
ation Assoeiation in its new book serv-
iee. Many plaeed orders before leaving.

574

dressed by Mrs. Everett M. Findlay,
past-president, Long Beach Recreation
Commission, California, and Beverly S.
Sheffield, superintendent of recreation,
Austin, Texas.

Discussion and \Vorkshop
Meetings

These were especially satisfactory and
well attended; and the several which
presented “live demonstrations” really
packed ’em in! The session on “Well-

Rounded Program,” for instance, fea-

tured a demonstration of creative
rhythms and rhythmic games for chil-
dren, beautifully led by Helen Hartwig,
teacher of physical education in an ele-
mentary school in University City, Mis-
souri, and audience participation and
song leading, led by Dr. Frederick Hall,
chairman of the Department of Music,
Alabama State College, Montgomery,
Alabama. Two other sessions, on “Cre-
ative Dramatics,” consisted entirely of
excellent demonstrations of this activi-
ty, led by Grace Stanistreet, director of

the Children’s Theatre, Adelphi Col-
lege, Garden City, New York. The chil-

dren had never previously worked with
Miss Stanistreet nor with each other.
Each one of these meetings was enthusi-
astically received by a large and very
attentive audience.

One delegate has written the National
Recreation Association: “Such things
as the demonstrations in creative dra-
matics carried out by Miss Stanistreet,
in creative rhythms by Mrs. Hartwig,
and in audience participation by Dr.
Hall were outstanding. I hope that it
will be possible at future congresses to
devote more time to this type of thing.”

The panel of teen-agers at the meet-
ing on recreation for that age group is
another instance of the successful em-
ployment of this device, as were the usu-
al social recreation and arts and crafts
leadership training workshops conduct-
ed by the National Recreation Associa-
tion specialists, Anne Livingston, Helen
Dauncey, Mildred Scanlon and Frank
Staples.

Evening worksh0ps which included
the participation of delegates were:
“Recreation in Hospitals”; “Arts and
Crafts”; “Social Recreation Training”;
and “Television.” A synchronized
swimming demonstration was held at
Washington University Pool, where

Beulah Gundling, senior national AAI
solo synchronized swimming champion
demonstrated the fundamentals of thi
type of swimming as compared witl
regular swimming strokes and inspiret
delegates with the grace and precisi01
of her exhibition. Other soloists in
cluded Mr. Shirayama, former Olympiu
swimmer of Japan, and several student
of Washington University. Myron Hen
dricks, recreation director of Niagar:
Falls, New York, acted as master of cer
emonies. (An article on synchronizet
swimming, by Mr. Hendricks, will b:
published in the January 1955 issue 0
RECREATION.)

The fifty-seven discussion session:
were scheduled during daytime hour:
with some very few exceptions. Among
topics that were new this year were
“Recreation in Correctional Institu
tions”; “Land for Recreation”; “Zoo:
and Botanic Gardens”; “Urban Rede
ve10pment”; “Operation of Indoor Rec
reation Centers”; “Conducting a Com
munity Sports Clinic”; and a “Nev
Executives Workshop” which took 11}
administrative problems.

Fun

Let it never be said that a Nationa
Recreation Congress took place withou
fun, when fun is the business at hand‘.
The whole Congress was fun; and, it
particular, ask any of‘the folks who at
tended the social recreation training
workshops, or any of the other meetings
for that matter, or who stood arount
the piano singing until all hours of tht
nights, or who attended the social event:
of the week. The latter were started of.
with the usual welcome tea, held by the
National Recreation Association or
Monday afternoon. Square dancing
with a good orchestra and callers frorr
many states, went on as long as the mu-
sicians would stay on Wednesday night
As a grand climax after the banquet on
Thursday evening, ballroom dancing.
again with a good orchestra, came intc
its own. The “mixers” really mixed.
and everyone seemed to be having a hi-
lariously good time. N o strangers here!

In addition, the special tour for dele-
gates took them to the Missouri Botani-
cal Garden which contains thc largcst
collection of plant life in the Western
Hemisphere and to see the famous chim-
panzee show at the Forest Park Zoo.

RECREATION

Meade Wed

From AII-Day Conferences

 

Administrative Problems of
Recreation and Park Executives

These meetings took a new form this
year, and from all reports the change
was a big success. The large group was
divided into small discussion groups,
thereby giving individuals in the small-
er groups an opportunity to participate.
Each smaller group had its own discus-
sion leader and summarizer and dis-
cussed those subjects in which the great-
est interest was shown. There was a sus-
tained attendance at these meetings of
about one hundred and seventy-five
throughout the day.

Summaries of the discussions were
reported to the assembled group at the
end of the day. Some conclusions
reached by one or more groups were
that the thirty-to-fffty age group is most
in need of more program planning; and
that provision for recreation—especi-
ally facilities in local housing proiects
——still needs more emphasis from Fed-
eral Housing Authorities. There was
again much discussion of whether the
colleges engaged in training recreation
leaders are turning out properly quali-
fied pe0ple. Most departments partici-
pating in the discussions reported in-
service training for their staffs with the
latter paid while attending. There was
agreement that more volunteers should
he recruited and used by public recrea-
tion departments with more careful as-
signment of them to the right reSponsi-
bilities. There was lively and extensive
interest in recreation problems of fringe
and new suburban areas.

Reereation .for Business
and Industrial Workers

Capacity audiences were present at
these meetings of leading companies
and representatives from labor unions.
It was agreed by all that, for recreation
in this field to be successful, sincere co-
Operation between management and
trade unions is essential, and that acti-
vities should be planned for every em-
ployee regardless of any trade union
affiliation. Delegates further heard that
its success also depends upon c00pera-
tion with local community recreation
agencies in the use of available com-
munity facilities; and that in each busi-
ness or industry there are different
groups of employees with differing ac-
tivity needs: men—women employees,
older—younger, athletic—non-athletic,
city dweller—rural and suhurban dwell-
er. Questions on organization and ad-
ministration, leadership, types of pro-
grams, noon-hour activities and activi-

DECEMBER 1954

ties for shift employees, and types of
plant organization took up a great part
of the time. A discussion of why gradu-
ate students fresh from universities with
a degree in industrial recreation have,
so far, failed in the field, brought forth
the reasons that: they have not been
taught, or know very little, about labor
relations; they do not understand work-
ing people and they expect high salaries
and rapid promotion.

Recreation in Correctional
Institutions

Delegates from fourteen states repre-
sented such institutions as detention
homes, reformatories, youth camps, and
prisons—both minimum security and
maximum types. It was agreed that the
grcatest need in this area is to interpret
to the public the importance of recrea-
tion as a part of the total programs, and
that it must be integrated to be effec-
tive. The public must understand that
the purpose of recreation in these in-
stitutions is to assist in changing the at-
titude of the inmate, rather than to es-
tablish good will between staff and pris-
oners. Inmates must be helped to gct
along with each other so that they may
carry over these lessons into society
when they regain their freedom. The
subject of university training for recre-
ation jobs again came up, this time in
relation to these institutions, and it was
agreed that some additional and care-
fully supervised orientation given by
someone familiar with the institution
situation is necessary; and it was re-
vealed that there is very little, if any,
published material on this subject.

Recreation in HospitaIs

In these meetings, bigger than ever
this year, hospital recreation leaders
were emphasized as important members
of the hospital team . . . the therapeutic
values of hospital ‘recreation fully rec-
ognized. It was agreed that its aims are
to assist the physician in the patient’s
recovery and to make life as meaningful
and satisfying as possible for the pa-
tient. The recreation staff can make the
hOSpital a more familiar place and help
to dispel fears, provide for diversion,
relieve anxiety, and make the patient
more receptive to present and future
medical treatment. It was pointed out
that hospital recreation programs for
children are a necessity and are con-
ducted separately from othcr h05pital
programs. The program must be totally
different, as must be the approach. It
must be recognized that to children rec-

reation activity or play is a vital part of
their growing process. It was agreed
that recreation for general medical and
surgical patients requires constant in-
terpretation. There is a need for con-
tinuing study as to how recreation can
most effectively take its place as a part
of the medical treatment prOgram. The
greatest potential in hospital recreation
is leadership, which should help in iron-
ing out methodology and achieving a
wholeness for a common objcctive.

Workshop for Supervisors

These meetings cstahlished a f rce and
easy give-and-take betwecn panel mem-
bcrs and audience and at once got down
to some of the basic fundamentals of
supervision. Agreeing that “help on the
job” is the prime reason for supervi-
sion, and that its core is the relation-
ship between the supervisor and the in-
dividual worker, a discussion of staff
development as ap integral part of su-
pervision and of how to improvc the
effectiveness of the supervisor followed.
Some ways in which the supervisor can
help recreation leaders are: (1) through
staff meetings regularly scheduled, and
publicizing of agcnda before thc mcct-
ing; (2) by encouraging professional
reading and study; (3) by encouraging
staff members to attend worksh0ps and
meetings. One of the important points
brought out in relation to summer staff
is payment for prc-summer orientation
or training; only fifty per cent of the
departments reprcsented in the meeting
are at present following this policy. It is
the responsibility of the SHpervisor to be
concerned about the working conditions
of his staff and to see to it that they
meet certain standards. A great deal of
discussion was concerned with the proc-
ess of evaluating the worker—how,
when, and where.

Town-Country Recreation

In discussing the training of lcader-
ship for this area of recreation, it was
decided that social recrcation training
is the logical place to begin. The care
and feeding of local leaders is a con-
stant program of work for thc county
and state worker or community pro-
gram dircctor; success is measured by
the ability to get people to do things for
themselves. The problems of the pro-
grams in rural and small communities
which were presented centered around
creating an awareness of the need, in-
terpreting specific needs, and stimulat-
ing interest. A discussion of finance in-
volved facilities, paid personnel, trans-
portation, enabling acts, and working
closely with puhlic officials. In consid-
ering program for farm folks, the need
for more family recreation was stressed,
and the part that TV and rccreation
laboratories might play in promoting it
was discussed.

575

 

A 36th National Recreation Congress address
dealing with the principles behind the desigm
ing of play equipment to “meet the needs of
the child and give him the opportunity to be
creative” was given by Mr. Brown.

  

PLAY 15 not just a safe way of getting
rid of the childrcn for a certain
time;, it is not just a way of deveIOping
children physically; it is not just a way
of developing hetter coordination; nor
is it just a way of teaching children to
It is all of these
things and more; and it cannot bc de-

entertain themselves.

fined as any single one of them an)
more than a man can be truly definerl
as a nose, or two lcgs, or a heart, or a
brain.

Play is nature’s way of preparing the
child, or any young animal, for the

JOSEPH BROWN, an. associate professor
in the School of Architecture and in-
structor in boxing in the Department
0/ Physicai Education at Princeton U ni-
versity, came to the National Recreation
Congress for one meeting and became
so intcrcstcd he stayed the entire week.

576

Joseph Brown

ONE BODY
+ ONE MIND

 

ONE PERSON

struggles of maturity. In its unspoiled
state, play is a universal education sys-
tem which allows a child to discover his
natural rights and natural limitations.
The child finds that these rights and
limitations vary with the frame of refer-
ence, that individual and group interests
are not necessarily antagonistic. The
fundamental democracy of pure play
will induce him to recognize that he is
the same as other children as well as
One
achieving this by means of physical play
equipment would be to develop a piece

different from them. idea for

which enables the child to play follow-
the-leader and at the same time requires
him to make personal decisions. thus
teaching him that he can he an individ-
ual and still be closely related to the
group. There is, however, a limit to
how far we can use manufactured gim-
micks in this respcct.

Because “pure” play is an ideal, play
leaders are necessary, but the best lead-
er is one who interferes at the right timc
in the right way, though as seldom as
possible. In too many cases leaders have

become to the child what, too often, the
lawyer and the policeman have become
to his father: a substitute for judgment
and conscience. This is unfortunate,
not only for the child, but for all of us.

Play is basically voluntary. Over-
regulated activity, whether the over-rcg-
ulation is verbal or physical, is not play.
Control of children by means of posted
rules and supervisors is. perhaps, a re-
flection of the world in which we live,
but the role of the professional man. in
recreation as in any other phase of edu-
cation, is to shape as well as to reflect.
to lead as well as to follow. It is the edu-
cator who must investigate every smell
of smoke and help put out the fire—if
there is one.

The extent to which we have becomc
a verhalized, rather than an educated,
culture becomes evident if we take into
account the number of men and women
who talk a better game than they play.
While the medium of words is undeni-
ably our most convenient educational
medium, all problems cannot be solved

by words and numbers, although it is

RECREATION

Many of Mr. Brown’s basic ideas are in-
corporated in this model. Motion at any
point is transmitted to all the others.

just as true that all problems will not be
solved by mere physical manipulation
of our environment or ourselves.
Stated simply, our task is to teach
children to “add two and two—but com-
. Since
the “rightness” of the gestures will be

determined hy each situation, the basic

bined with the right gestures.

 

Mrs. Rollin Brown, NRA board member,

observes models with author. Center,
strips of sprng steel move when pressure
is applied anywhere. Others for climbing.

importance of individual judgment
and mobility, mental and physical, is
forced upon us. The child who can learn
to change his mind without changing
his principles is tomorrow’s adult in
every sense of the word, the citizen who
understands that rights and responsi-
hilities are interdependent.

How are we to do this? Some kind
of leadership and rules are necessary.
Published rules and articulate leaders
are not in themselves destructive, but
by themselves they arc. Rules that grow
out of the experiences of the children
are quite a different matter from rules,
regardless of their apparent good scnse,
that are imposed before there has been
an experience. And this may be the
crux of the matter. Does a child do his
only. or his most important, creative
thinking hy scribbling on a paper with-
out criticism? Or by squeezing some
clay into good and bad shapes that his
parents feel duty-bound to admire for
fear of dwarfing his personality? Or
might it he just as important, if not

DECEMBER 1954

more important, that he discover that he
is, in a sense, a dancer and a choreOgra-
pher?

The responsibilities of this role would
involve the arrangement of—and tak-
ing part in—situations composed of di-
verse factors such as trees, and strcams,
and curbstones, and other children. A
tree has certain character, so does a
stream, so‘does a curbstone, and so do
othcr children—it gets complicated. ls
it too complicated for a child? ‘Vhat
ahout dwarfing his personality? We
worry about that when he is dealing
with crayon and papcr, or clay: should
we worry less because he is dealing with
things and people?

The prohlem of vitalizing play in the
highly industrialized and highly literal-
ized mid-twentieth century is b y no
means a simple one-step affair. The rc-
affirmation of hasic principles is only a
beginning, a very important first step.
Subsequent steps, taken in the constant
light of these principles, would be a
stuin of the physical equipment cur-
rently in use, thc development of sup-
plementary equipment when the need is
indicated, and the development of new
kinds of equipment. Let no one say, for
instance, that the old, standard horizon-
tal bars are no longer any good.

When we spcak of “new” equipment
we encounter a two-faced danger. The
first is the tendency to accept something
new merely because it is novel, whether
or not it is based on an understanding
of the job to be donc; and the second
is the tendency to reject a new, but real,
contribution hecause it has never been
done before.

The conflicts of and within a society
are fundamentally the samefrom one
age to another, hut they are also super-
ficially different from one year to the
next, and the recognition of these “su-
pcrficial” changes can be the difference
between life and death or health and
sickness. As an example: The increase
in the numher of automohiles has led to
an increase in the numbcr of accidents;
the increased accident rate has in-
creased the number of public signs read-
ing “Careful, Children,” or words to
that effect; and the increase in the num-
ber of such signs has increased the num-
her of children who feel that a sign
relieves them of responsibility in a
“street-automobile-sign-adult-l want to

go somewhere” situation. And these
children grow up and drive cars in a
“street-automobile-pedestrian-l want to
go somewhere” situation.

Where shall we start? Shall we abol-
ish automobiles? Or signs? Or shall
we conclude that “some things are right
and some things are wrong, but there’s
nothing we can do about it?” Thoughts
of this nature must end in either moodi-
ness or action, and choosing action l
went to work on what l now call a play
community.

This play community, the first in a
series which I have designed, is a proto-
type. It is based primarily on the as-
sumption that many apparently sound
pieces of traditional equipment fail to
do an adequate job because they lack
the all-important factor of unpredict-
ability. Unpredict‘ability. within reason-
able limits, gives physical activity the.
creative quality which is the very soul
of play.

The play community consists of two
main elements: a massive central ele-
ment made of concrete and a two-level,
weh-like arrangement of plastic-covered
cables that radiate from a support em-
bedded in the central element to poles
on the perimeter of the plot.

The conical cap to which the cables
are attached is mounted on a ball-and-
socket oint, so that the cap moves when-
ever the balanced tension is changed;
that is, whenever a pull is exerted on
any part of the web. A child trying to
walk the lower strand while holding the
two upper strands for balance must con-
tend not only with the constant laws of
gravity and inertia but also with the
changes in tcnsion caused by the actions
of other children who may he practicing
similar or differcnt activities on other
parts of the web. By the nature of the
hookup, these tensions, which he cannot
eliminate, are not violent enough to
fling him off the apparatus, hut they are
real enough to draw him off halance
unless he learns to extend and to flex, to
give and take, at the right times.

A child hang-traveling on one of the
radiating strands would, each time he
swings from one hand to the other, add
to the pulse of the entire mechanism.
changing it but at the same time accept-
ing the changes that would continually
be created by the reasonable actions of
other children on different parts of the

577

apparatus. The result would be an ever-
changing, always different, rhythm
which would make a trip from one pole
to another a different and new achieve-
ment each time, a tacit reminder that
success is a process, not an end.

There are certain arrangements that
are planned to lead to frustrations, but
none is a blind alley. In one case, the
upper cable, running from the central
pole to the border pole, is directly above
the lower strand, making it possible for
a child to walk the lower strand while
using the upper strand for support and
balance. If, sometime later, the same
child comes back and finds that this par-
ticular section of the apparatus is being
used by another child, he can go to the
opposite side and use what appears to
be a similar arrangement of strands;
but he will find after two steps that the
strands diverge, and he is faced with
the responsibility of making a choice:
continuing to try to walk the lower
strand without the benefit of the upper
strand or leaving the lower strand and
continuing to hang-travel on the upper.

The design of the massive element is
such that it will suggest different things
to different children, depending upon
the conditioning of each child; and it
will also suggest different things to the
same child, depending upon the direc-

tion from which it is seen.

It may be played in and played upon.
The top of the spiral slide can be reached
in a few different ways, none of which
is an obvious or traditional approach.
For example, a child using the stair-like
markings on the side of the element
(with the rail-like poles on either side)
would find it necessary to change his
hold from one railing to the other at a
certain point. Small children may play

'inside the element without fear of any-

thing or anybody falling upon them.
They may crawl under the bridge-like
construction on the inside, in and out
of the main holes, and they may look
out of the smaller holes.

The spiral slide is a planned tempo-
rary disappointment in that it looks as
if it offers a continuous trip from t0p
to bottom. Actually, the child would
st0p sliding when only half-way down
and he would be faced with the neces-
sity to make another decision and act
on it: He could either stand up and ven-
ture out toward the front of the main
element, or onto the cable-web, or he
could remain seated and push himself
two or three times until he encountered
the second incline.

This lower incline may be used as a
slide in itself by less adventurous or less
experienced children, who could climb

the rope net that is attached to the pos-
terior side. A child approaching from
the upper slide would be pushing him-
self along the joining section, so there
would be no possibility of a collision as
another child entered the slide from the
net. The actions of each, at this point,
would be necessarily slow and deliber-
ate and an impasse would be improba-
ble, if not impossible.

This apparatus is a play “communi-
ty” because any child who uses it is
forced by circumstances to recognize
the vitality of his surroundings.
Through experience he is taught to re-
spect the complexity of every situation
even though his personal aims may be
simple. This respect will be neither un-
reasonable fear nor a thoughtless sense
of security-—just an acceptance of the
fact that personal designs and social de-
signs are interdependent.

The factor of unpredictability, the
creative factor, places upon the child the
reSponsibility—which is, at this time in
life, the fun —of choosing, of emerging,
of choosing again, ad infinitum, prac-
tice in the art of living, the rare art of
accepting each accomplishment as a
sign-post in a wonderful journey that
never ends, a journey made on one

vehicle— a mind and a body, one and
inseparable.

 

National Recreation Association District Conference Schedule—1955

District
Representative

District

California State and
Pacific Southwest
Recreation Conference

Locotion—Hotel

Coso Del Rey Hotel
Santa Cruz, California

Dotes

February 13-16

Rodney

Middle Atlantic The Inn March 16-19 Foust—Westgote
(Including New Buck Hill Folls, Pennsylvonio
York Stotel
Southeast Whitley Hotel March 16-18 Van Fleet 1
Montgomery, Alobomo
: Great Lakes Pontlond March 22-25 Collier—Horney
r Grand Rapids, Michigan
Midwest Fort Des Moines Hotel March 23-25 Todd
Des Moines, Iowa .
Southwest Biltmore Hotel March 23-26 Von Arsdole
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma ~
Southern Geo. Vanderbilt Hotel April 12-14 Preece
Asheville, North Carolina
Pacific Northwest Boise Hotel April 17-19 Shumord
Boise, Idaho
New England Woodstock Inn May 10-13 Hoinsworth

Woodstock, Vermont

L__*__________l

578

RECREATION

 

A DAZZLING circus—complete with ringmaster, professional
performers, acts such as those on the flying trapeze,
trampolin, dancing bears, elephants, dogs, clowns and, of
course, Santa Claus—climaxes the Christmas season at Boe-
ing Airplane Company in Seattle. The youngsters love it
and, judging from adult attendance, so do mom, pop, grand-
ma and gramp. Last year, with an audience of eighty-six
thousand, forty-four per cent were adults.

However, adults can’t horn in on everything! Every mop-
pet in the place heads for home with the usual Christmas
stocking loaded with candy, gum, nuts, and toys. More than
forty-eight thousand stockings were distributed last year.

Company supervisors have been getting ready to stage this
year’s Christmas party since last August. The complexities
of the annual event having mushroomed considerably since
the first party three years ago, they’ll start making their
plans for 1955 just a few weeks after this one is over.

The first performance, held in Seattle’s huge Civic Audi-
torium, attracted nearly thirty thousand persons. The audi-
torium wasn’t quite big enough, however, and the last two
parties have been transferred to the University of Washing-
ton Athletic Pavilion, where it will again be held, with
attendance expected to top the 1953 figure. The party, inci-
dentally, is a two-day extravaganza, split into four cireus-
type shows each day, each running about an hour. In the
planning for this stupendous affair, a committee is formed
to make the necessary decisions, a committee which is a
cross section of the company’s supervisory ranks. This year’s
group includes supervisors from engineering, controller’s
office, experimental, tool engineering, maintenance and
transportation, public relations, personnel, timekeeping, fac-
tory manager’s office, industrial relations, manufacturing,
and advertising.

They have a world of things to attend to: hiring the hall;
lining up circus acts; scheduling the filling of stockings.
Then there are arrangements to be made for sound equip-
ment and operation, spotlight operators, stage hands, cos-
tume rental, and Christmas trees, insurance, cleaning serv-
ices, electricians, towel rental, the printing of well over one
hundred thousand tickets, programs, decorations, traffic con-
trol, flowers for the dressing rooms, food service. They even
arrange for a standby tow truck just in case somebody’s car
won’t start.

Incidentally, top-ranking acts were just a bit difficult to
book for the first party, the performers being not too enthu-

DECEMBER 1954

Industry puts on a big show; and
company volunteers make it possible.

Boeing Gets Set
for Christmas Party

siastic over a lengthy trip for a “one-night stand.” But word
got around concerning the red-carpet treatment aeeorded
them at the Seattle show, and a number of letters have been
received from big-time acts saying they’d like nothing bet-
ter than to perform before the Boeing people again.

They liked the idea of flowers in their dressing rooms,
it seems, hot meals or snacks available at all times, and some-
body on hand to take care of anything that might need to he
done. And they liked the way their acts were received.

Although the party committee gets things set up, it’s on
the night before the show that the main body of supervisors
really get into the act. At six o’clock that evening, they’ll
move in on the Athletic Pavilion. To watch them get the
fourteen thousand-seat basketball arena ready for the kids
is as eye-opening as the show itself. Huge balloons float from
the rafters, steel girders turn into massive red and white
striped candy canes, food service facilities appear, and a pro-
tective plywood floor covers the entire basketball court.

The beauty of it, right down the line, is that there are any
number of jobs to be done—some of them calling for much
back-bending—and the number of volunteers is astounding.
More than two thousand offered their services for anything
that had to be done last year.

Nonetheless, the volunteer situation created the main
gripe of last year’s show. There just weren’t enough jobs
to go around. It went right up to the top brass, too. Presi-
dent William M. Allen, for instance, called the president of
the Boeing Supervisors’ Club into his office one day about a
month or more before last year’s show. “Look,” he grinned,
“I’m a member of thc Supervisors’ Club. My dues are paid
up, and l’m entitled to help out in this party for the kids.
Use your influence.” Which is why a number of youngsters
received their Christmas stockings from the hands of the
Boeing president himself.

Stuffing Christ-

mas stockings isa
bigjob. Lastyear
the project took
place at Seattle’s
Cerebral Palsy
Center building.

 

 

SOMETIMES people who work in the
recreation field find little time for
recreation themselves. After constantly
advising other people to take up a hob-
by for personal enjoyment and creative
satisfaction, I began to realize that I
was in need of one myself.

My forte, games and social recrea—
tion, involves mostly the head and the
feet, Which means that I do practically
nothing with my hands. However, knit—
ting and its allied forms of needlework
constitute the easiest route to complete
collapse for me. About that time, seven
years or so ago, a friend of mine was
searching for an inexpensive hobby he
could share with his son. After dream-
ing up the idea of collecting postmarks
from the approximately forty-two thou-
sand post ofiices in the United States
and territories and putting them in note-
books according to state, class and
alphabet, he found it was an honest-to-
goodness hobby that had been interest-
ing people for years! From this initial
prod, I decided this could be the hobby
for me, too.

I scnt to the U. S. Government Print-
ing Office for a U. S. Ogicial Postal
Guide, Part I, Domestic Postal Service,
priced at $1.75, and read the alphabeti-
cal listing of all the post ollices in our
country. Talk about looking up just one
word in the dictionary! I couldn’t stop

 

 

—....-

BLANCHE C. MCGOWAN is director of
special activities, Community Recrea-
tion Service of Boston, Massachusetts.

580

until I had gone through the whole
thing! As I read ofi the names, I came
upon one which sounded very much Iikc
the holiday season: Holly, West Virgin-
ia—and thence began my new hobby.

I had played at making my Christmas
cards for several years before this, more
or less for the fun of it; and although
they were not particularly inspired, they
were my own. The year I bought the
postal guide, my cards had an artistic
arrangement of green felt holly leaves
and red felt holly berries—and I sent
them all to the post olIice at Holly to
be postmarked and mailed.

The interval between then and the
time when the cards began arriving in
my friends’ letterboxes seemed like
years. The response was worth all the
trouble. with the possible exception of
a Harvard graduate who wanted to
know what in the world I was doing in
West Virginia at Christmas time.

I wrote to the postmistress at Noel,
Virginia, thanking her for the clearness
of her postmarks and her cooperation
on mailing my cards one year, and had
a reply enclosing a reprint from a Rich-
mond, Virginia, newspaper, with a story
and pictures on the brisk Christmas
trade in stamps and postmarks in that
tiny place.

The year I made a card with my ini—
tials cut out and folded so that when
opened up gently they formed a tiny
snowHake, I almost gave up the whole
project. My Christmas list has over a
hundred names on it and I was really

An idea which ties in with the Christmas season.

The Case History

of a HOBBY

Blanche C. McGowan

“in the groove” cutting out the pesky
things. My cutting hand didn’t get back
into shape until Valentine’s Day. How-
ever, I put the idea to use many times
over teaching it to classes composed of
child-sitting aunts and grandmothers,
as well as those wanting material to

The

postmark from Snowflake, Virginia,

interest convalescing child re 11 .

couldn’t have been better.

I chose Speed, North Carolina, in
1952, and made miniature baggage tags
“Expressing Best Christmas Wishes” to
my friends. l learned from a native Tar
Heel hailing from a town near Speed
that the name belied the activity gener—
ally found there. All I know is that those
cards arrived early, a pleasant change
from some of those in past years that
took so long getting to the postmasters
and back that they welcomed in the New
Year! ln fact, one postmaster held the
cards and stamped them December 25
because I had said in my note to him

Big Chinmey,Wcst Virginia, inspired this

 

that they were for Christmas, aml he
took me literally.

Someone may be wondering why I
haven’t mentioned Christmas, Florida,
or Santa Claus, Indiana, or Bethlehem,
Pennsylvania. These are all excellent,
to be sure, hut pretty much overworked.
I like to exercise a bit more ingenuity.
even though inspiration comes slowly
at times!

Another reason for my choices is the
fact that they are mostly fourth-class
post offices. How can you tell which
are fourth-class? In the alphabetical
listing each has a nu1uher beside it, as
1, 2, 3; a fourth-class office is unnum-
bered. This is the smallest post office
there is, and the postmark will be
stamped by lzaml. A fourth-class ollice,
determined hy population and amount
of business done there, has a large eye-
catching postmark instead of the small
ones which are machine-stamped. (In
case you are interested in statistics, in
my 1947 postal guide there were 19,400
fourth-class post offices and only 2.296
first-class ones.) ‘

Perhaps one day 1 shall pay a visit
to Big Chimney, West Virginia. That
inspired one of my favorite creations:
a filing eard. used vertically: a strip of
red crepe paper marked with lines of
white ink simulating a brick chimney

and fastened with cellophane tape
around the lower half of the card; a
narrow hand of cotton batting glued to
the edge of the chimney for snow: and
a Christmas gift tag of Santa Claus’
head (with the red string attached)
stapled to the top of the card itself did
the trick. The place on the tag that said,
“To , From ,” saved a great
deal of time. Nonetheless, these took
hours to make; but 1 must confess that l
have two self-sacrificing friends who ac-
tually volunteer to do some of the assem-
bly-line portion for me! Not only that.
they begin needling me around mid-
October to get going on my plans for
the next year’s card.

 

 

I chose Angels, Pennsylvania and
tried to make my angel look slightly
three dimensional hy folding stiff white
paper down the middle and gluing the
separate pieces only at the fold and a
bit heyond. Her little dress was cut
from shiny white shelf paper, her wings
were slices of paper doilies, and her lips
and eyes were dots of red and blue pen-
cil crayon. Her tiny halo of gilt paint.
which. incidentally, took a long time to
dry, was applied with a hrush.

1 found, in a stationery store, a new,
gilt-edged way to sign one’s name in
gold. A small piece of gold foil which
could be used in the same manner as

carbon paper was available at twenty-
five cents a sheet. The only drawhack
was that it could not he used over and
over again; once the gold was trans-
ferred to another paper, that was it!
This was a blow to my budget. I had
to buy five pieces of this gold paper.
since twenty-five names were approxi-
mately all l could squeeze from one
piece. But the gold of her halo, and the
gold of the greetings. gave my angel a
definite eclat.

l haven’t decided what 1954’s card
will he as 1 write this, but there’s one
idea I’ve been mulling over for quite a
spell. lt has possibilities: .ll-listletoe,
Kentucky.

Snowflake monogram effectively related
design and postmark, evoked admiration.

 

EM!!!I”KK§W§KK¥¥£§£K¥§EMK££¥¥§¥¥¥$3¥§KKK¥K¥§%KK¥¥KKK%KKK%¢2§EKKK¥£E¥H£¥£¥¥W§£@KEEKK£K¥

@119 (Eliriatutaa {stagger of the (Eliilhrpn nf Anterira

Bear mord alesus:

Fred C. Morse

Ghou has been so loving and generous to the boys and girls of America.

sincerely we thank Thee for our fathers and mothers who love us.

no bless Thee for the homes that shelter us and the lovely churches that teach us the way of
the Christian life.

\

ne thank Thee for the patient teachers that day after day tell us ahout the wonders of,Thy world.

And oh how we thank Thee for our America, the land of freedom and of happiness. May we ever
he true to her and never, never let her fall into godless ways.

3111 other lands we know that there are thousands and thousands of boys and girls who have no
homes or fathers and mothers and many of whom are suffering and dying.

lie with them, 0 Lord, Jesus. feed them and comfort them. Help us that we may send them our
substance and our love that they may survive the tragedies of life.

And as we kneel before Thy altar this joyous Christmas time give us Thy blessing and we will
praise Thee forever and ever. Amen.

This prayer by Mr. Morse, president of the Mutual Savings Institution, Austin, Texas. was used
on the very attractive program of the annual Austin Community Christmas Program in 1952.

namahmmxmmammmmmmmammmmammaaamnmamammamzamaanammmaaaamamaammmmamamammmaaaamzmaxmaaammn

"(
DECEMBER 1954 .361

 

The story of the Senior Citizens” Service Corps of

New York City.

Ruth M. Snyder

.. WOW”,

0 The social work and medical professions have long known
that activity which combines satisfaction with a feeling of
usefulness is basic to good personal adjustment. This is true
of all ages and particularly so for the elderly who, no longer
active in business or with family responsibilities, doubly
appreciate the satisfaction that comes with worthwhile ac-
complishnlent.

To meet this nced, as well as to provide services to older
persons in llOSpitalS, nursing homes and similar facilities,
in New York City, the Mayor’s Advisory Committee for the
Aged, through its Sub-Committee on Civil Defense and Com-
munity Services, inaugurated the Senior Citizens’ Service
Corps. In May 1952, the subcommittee was successful in
recruiting older persons for civil defense work and approxi-
mately one hundred persons, aged sixty-five to eighty-two,
joined the city’s civil defense program. Assignments were
geared to the type of job to which each person seemed best
suited.

In subsequent city-wide drills it was demonstrated that this
use of senior citizens for volunteer defense work was not
only practical but of real value to the older person and to
the community. The success of the venture, and the response
of older persons generally, led the subcommittee to extend
the program to include volunteer services to chronically ill
patients.

It was recognized that such a project would not be wholly
effective without a trained worker to plan with cooperating
agencies, to screen applicants, and to train and assign volun-
teers. Thus, through the c00peration of the New York City
Department of Welfare, to which the Mayor’s Advisory
Committee functions in an advisory capacity, a professional
worker was made available for an experimental period. Of-
fice facilities were provided in the office of the Mayor’s Ad-
visory Committee for the Aged, and through the efforts of
the chairman, inexpensive descriptive leaflets were printed.
RUTH M. SNYDER is consultant to the Bureau of Special Serv-
ices of the Department of Welfare in New York City.

582

 

Volunteers provide entertainment at birthday party celebra-
tions which have become a part of city nursing-home programs.

4..
4 .‘I‘

I 3- '

Every outlet for free publicity was utilized. Through the
aid of newspapers and radio stations, press releases and
spot announcements were arranged. Help was sought from
groups and agencies dealing with older persons. Limita-
tions of Space prevent the naming of the many groups and
individuals through whose generous cooperation the pro-
ject was made known.

As is true of any new program, recruitment was slow.
This is understandable in a program which attempts to en-
list older persons. The contribution of the older person
has been overlooked for so long, and it is only within the
last decade that society has again begun to appreciate his
worth. From April 3, when recruitment began, to June 25,
1953, sixty-four persons had been interviewed; seventeen
were screened and assigned, following a brief orientation
course; and three persons were awaiting interview. In ad-
dition, a choral group of twenty-five persons offered to pro-
vide concerts in the fall to hospitalized patients.

Three projects were immediately put into operation. The

RECREATION

largest was at Coler Memorial Home and Hospital, where
fifteen older men and women were assigned to read aloud to
patients, help with the writing of letters, provide library
service, and assist with a monthly birthday party held for
patients. Two other volunteers were assigned respectively
to a voluntary nursing home for older persons and a private
home for the aged. Other services which were seen as a
possibility for the older volunteer were giving clerical as-
sistance, instructing in simple crafts, playing chess or check-
ers with patients, escorting wheelchair patients to the insti-
tution’s moving picture program or chapel, acting as inter-
preters, and helping to feed bed-bound patients.

Many volunteers, although expressing interest in offering
their services, preferred to wait for the cooler weather to
begin. Several others who accepted assignments dropped
out after a few months, and still others, who obviously
wanted to join the volunteer program, were timid about tak-
ing on responsibility on a regular basis.

In evaluating the program in the late fall of 1953, it was
evident that one worker could not hope to be in suchiently
close contact with a substantial number of volunteers, many
of whom worked on different days and in several different
locations, to provide the kind of supportive treatment and
encouragement the older volunteers seemed to need. In Jan-
uary, 1954, therefore, it was decided to tie in the senior citi-
zens’ volunteer program with the department of welfare’s
day centers for the aged. Persons who called the central
office regarding volunteer work were referred to the day cen-
ter nearest their home. There the head worker interviewed
and screened the applicant and endeavored to assign him to
a nearby location.

Volunteers already active were likewise brought into close
contact with a neighborhood day center. In this way, both
the experienced volunteer and the newcomer were seen on
a regular basis and given the opportunity to talk through
any problems which bothered them about their assignments.
Those who found an assignment to a hospital on a regular
basis too burdensome were offered either fewer hours a
month or encouraged to try a less taxing project, such as, for

example, friendly visiting or performing simple services for
a day center member who might be temporarily house-
bound. Other assignments arranged for volunteers consisted
of accompanying older persons to clinics and making band-
ages and surgical dressings for neighborhood hospitals.

Figures, as of June 1954, show that there are now one
hundred and ninety-nine older men and women enrolled in
the Senior Citizens’ Service Corps. Thirty-eight are pro-
viding service in seven hospitals and one nursing home; one
hundred and twenty are engaged in friendly visiting and
performing other simple services for housebound individu-
als; thirty are assigned to various phases of civil defense
work; eight persons are working on a bandage and surgical
dressing project; and three volunteers work entirely with
the blind. Seven older persons are awaiting placcment.

The tie-in of the volunteer program with the day center
program has had two distinct advantages. It provides a
workable plan for keeping in closcr touch with thc voluntcer,
and, at the same time, offers the volunteer, in addition to his
service to others, an opportunity to participate in and enjoy
the benefits of a group activity program designed specifically
for older people. The relationship of the individual volun-
teer to the group and the influence of the group process have
brought about a feeling of belonging, strengthened pcrsonal
security, and added to the values of the individual’s as well
as the group’s contribution.*

In a comparatively short time, with no paid publicity and
only a modest outlay of funds, a service unique in the his-
tory of_volunteers because of its use of senior citizens has
been successfully launched. Apart from the usual benefits
associated with volunteer service, the conservation of funds,
and release of paid staff for other duties, the use of older
persons as recreation aides offers a rewarding service both
to volunteer and to patient. The Mayor’s Advisory Commit-
tee for the Aged and the New York City Department of Wel-
fare are to be congratulated on their foresight and social
awareness.

"‘ See Social Group Work—Principles and Practices, by Harleigh
B. Trecker, The Woman’s Press, New York, 1948; pp. 58-59.—Ed.

 

I

RECREATION LEADERSHIP TRAINING PROGRAMS

Date , Location

February 16-19

February 13-20

March

43rd Annual Conference of Council of Southern
Mountain Workers, Gatlinburg, Kentucky

Longhorn Recreation Laboratory, Christian
Youth Foundation Camp, Athens, Texas

Mid-Continent Park and Recreation Conference,
University of Minnesota. Center for Continua-

F or Further Information

The Council of Southern Mountain Workers,
Box 2000, College Station, Berea, Kentucky

Dawn N. Duncan, President, Longhorn Recrea-
tion Laboratory, 2213 Avenue G, Bay City,
Texas -

Felix K. Dhainin, Board of Park Commission-
ers, 325 City Hall, Minneapolis 15, Minne-

tion Study, Park 8: Recreation Administration sota

Training, Minneapolis, Minnesota

All those who wish to have their workshops, institutes, and conferences included should send the information to NRA
Personnel Service by the date indicated: January, February and March programs will be listed in December—information
should reach us by October 15. April, May and June will be listed in March—deadline for information is January 15. July,
August and September will be listed in June—deadline for information is April 15. October, November and December will

be listed in September—deadline for information is July 15.

1 DECEMBER 1954

583

Music and the season’s warmth are
passed on to the ill and the aged.

CAMLERS SING

The Christmas

carol project for
shut-ins in Des
Moines, Iowa, was inaugurated in 1950,
as an undertaking of the music commit-
tee of the Federation of Women’s Clubs,
assisted by the local recreation commis-
sion. The National Recreation Associa-
tion sent materials; and Arthur Todd,
the Association’s district representative
in the Middle West, led the assembled
carolers and other community folks in
pre-prograin caroling and tableaus on
the steps of the state capitol. Immedi-
ately following this, the pre-arranged
caroling program was carried to all
parts of the city by the caroling groups.

Plans for the event were started at a
luncheon, to which were invited repre-

 

sentatives from civic and music organi-
zations. Federation committee mem-
bers and their guests laid general plans,
and broad responsibilities were dele-
gated for publicity, correspondence, lo-
cation of the sing, the securing of a song
leader, and so on. Subsequent meetings
took care of such details as traflic and
parking problems, properties needed,
arrangements for carol books.
Publicity plans were very carefully
outlined, and excellent c00peration was
obtained from the local press and radio
stations. Direct invitations to partici-
pate were mailed to singing groups.

Two hundred and fifteen cards were

MRS. HULSIIIZER is music chairman,
Des Moines Federation of Women’s
Clubs, sponsor of the carol program.

584

l

n o
.‘l, ‘ . 4
~ .4.
. . :3
I....
. .h'a

u,

.‘é'i:_
3““-
. I.

i

M.
."
2".

L?
.. .

at
V

"  if."

   

sent to the churches, letters were written
to choir directors, music club presidents,
the women’s club, puhlic schools, civic
groups and various other groups.

Sustained public interest prior to the
evening was achieved through the de-
tailed publicity plans. The Register-
Tribune carried a sequence of stories
for three weeks, covering such news as
the committee luncheon, a general story
of the project with a picture of Mr. Todd
and the announcement that he was to
be the song leader, and other human in-
terest stories concerning planning and
preparation. Use of placards on two
hundred and seven taxis, colored post-
ers for churches, hotels, the main li-
brary, railroad and bus stations, and
colleges gave additional publicity. One
large department store made and placed
posters in its windows. After the event,
each of the eight neighborhood papers
carried a complete story.

Other arrangements made included:
a chart of the statehouse steps, showing
numbered sections and assignment
space for carolers, which was mailed to
each group; the help of two squad cars
of traffic officers to facilitate parking
and smooth How of traffic;- fifty Boy
Scouts to usher on the steps; donation
of the carol books and a story in the
paper telling where to secure them; a
record player and public address system
for the leader’s use; two forty-foot hack-
dr0ps and spotlights for the tableau.

Mr. Todd arranged the program for
the evening. He made use of recorded
music, while people were arriving, in-

 
     
 

[Fr

or Everyone

Emily Hnlshizer

terspersed with introductory remarks,
introductions, and general commentary.
He also set up a well-balanced program
through skilled use of carols, some Spe-
cial numbers and the tableau, followed
by more carols and concluding re-
marks. The statehouse steps provided
a setting not unlike our national Capi-
tol, for there are thirty-five steps lead-
ing to a high-pillared portico. Frigid
temperatures did not stop five hundred
and seventy-seven singers from gather-
ing on the steps to sing under Mr.
Todd’s leadership for forty minutes.

There was real family participation
in the caroling. several groups having
entire families in their personnel.
Among these carolers were choirs and
carol units from schools, sororities, civ-
ic organizations, Sunday schools, 1n11sic
clubs, the women’s club, P.T.A., Girl
Scouts, Camp Fire Girls, nurses, the Ne-
gro community center, as well as a pro-
fessional male quartet, and several
church, neighborhood, and small pri-
vate groups.

After the big general program, carol-
ing groups made appearances in hospi-
tals, nursing homes, children’s homes,
homes for the aged, the library, hotels,
a department store tearoom, and at
three broadcasts. Strolling carolers also
toured in the six districts of our city.

To arrange a carol program geared to
the institution or locality visited, super-
visors were consulted as to the time,
size of group desired, and the purpose;
that is, whether the carolers were to en-
tertain only, to lead a “sing,” or to pro-

RECREATION

l

vide a combination of the two. This as-
sured a satisfying evening for those at
the various places where singers ap-
peared, and enabled the committee to
use all types of groups or individuals
who wished to participate. Thirty-nine
groups, with a total personnel of five
hundred and forty-one singers, made
fifty-five appearances.

Results were more than gratifying:
all the groups were well received. Re-
port sheets, filled out by group super-
visors, indicated that 2,508 people lis-
tened to the carols. This number did
not include people in railroad stations,
the library, or those who enjoyed the
music from the warm comfort of their
cars on the statehouse grounds. The
supervisors’ comments emphasized the
spontaneous response to the carols and
the fine degree of cheer and spirit it
brought to listeners. This justified,many
times over, the great effort involved in
giving the evening of carols.

New heights were realized in 1951.
A thirty-foot blue spruce, donated for
the plaza of the statehouse, was illumi-

nated for the two weeks before Christ-

mas. Forty-five singing groups, totaling
a thousand voices, signed up to partici-
pate. Then along came an all-day snow-
storm which upset many of the arrange-
ments, including the number of people
participating. However, a new plan for
the evening was used to advantage. In-
dividual groups did their caroling, then
met afterwards at the statehouse for
singing together and a program.

The weather precluded outdoor sing-
ing. so the event was held in the base-
ment of the capitol. A brass ensemble
from Drake University provided fine
prelude music. The theme of the eve-
ning was the brotherhood of man as ex-
pressed through the United Nations.
Costumed groups sang the carols of
many lands, Italy, Germany, Greece.
Denmark, France, and Mexico. The Na-
tional Council of Catholic Women pre-
sented a heautiful tahleau. There were
folk dances by small Mexican children
and a gay frolic around the Christmas
tree by the Danish college students in
costume. Stanford Hulshizer. of Drake
University, led the massed group in the

beloved carols. In keeping with the

tradition of our English cousins and the
\Vassail bowl, everyone joined in the
treat of hot chocolate, coffee, and
doughnuts eontrihuted by.many firms
and individuals.

For the past two years the project has
continued to grow. Experience with
zero weather in previous years has
caused cancellation of any large com-
munity sing until such time as a civic
auditorium will be available. Full em-
phasis is on taking carols to the ill. the
homeless, and the aged. The local pa-
pers, radio stations, and schools all co-
operate. Last year, five hundred anrl
fifty singers made fifty-five appear-
ances. There is always a heart warming
response to the music as well as to the
singers themselves.

Would it not he a truly wonderful tra-
dition in America if every village, town.
and city would have a yearly commu-
nity Christmas sing and program ofcar-
ols for the homeless, the ill, and the
aged? It can he done! It is earnestly
hoped that this report may bring
enough practical ideas to help countless
others start such programs.

 

The Night. Before a Fire-Sate Christmas '

’Twas the night before Christmas, when all through the house,
Not a creature was stirring, not even, a mouse.

When down through the chimney, all covered with soot,
Came the “Spirit of Fire,” an ugly galoot.

His eyes glowed like embers, his features were stern,

As he looked all around for something to hurn.

Captain Claude Conlin, Jr.

The tree had been trimmed by a mother insistent
That the ornaments used must be fire-resistant.
And mother had known the things to avoid,

Like cotton, and paper, and plain celluloid.

What he saw made him grumble, his anger grew higher.

For there wasn’t a thing that would start a good‘fire.
No doors had heen blocked by the big Christmas tree.
It stood in the corner leaving passageways free.

The lights that glowed brightly for Betty and Tim

Had been hung with precaution so none touched a limh.
All wiring was new, not a break could be seen,

And wet sand at its base kept the tree nice and green.

Rock wool, metal icicles, trinkets of glass,
Gave life to the tree; it really had class.

And would you helieve it, right next to the tree
Was a suitahle hox for holding dehris,’
A place to throw wrapping of paper and string.

From all the gifts that Santa might bring.

The ugly galoot was so mad he could “bust,”

As he climhed up the chimney in uttcr disgust,
For the folks in this home had paid close attention
To all of the rules of good “FIRE PREVENTION.”

CAPTAIN CONLIN of the Los Angeles F ire Department received the National Edwards
Award for 1953, an honor given annually to the person performing the most outstanding
work in the held of hre prevention in the United States.

Reprinted with permission from California Parent-Teacher, December 1953.

DECEMBER 1954

585

 

{.

College Christmas Festival

An annual all-nations Christmas fes-
tival will be celebrated once again on
December 6, Augustana College in
Sioux Falls, South Dakota. This event
follows a traditional pattern which in-
cludes an evening program of colorful
dances, games and the songs of various
lands. The countries represented vary
somewhat from year to year, according
to the make-up of the student body, but
usually number about fifteen.

Recently there have been students
from such varied locales as Denmark,
Holland, Germany, Japan, and Korea;
and the children of returned mission-
aries have brought a touch of countries
as remote as Zululand. All these, added
to the Swedish and Norwegian people
who make up the majority, lend the fes-
tival an authenticity that is not often
equalled in college presentations.

 

In many booths, students and faculty
in the native dress of their various coun-
tries serve traditional foods. The booths
range from a Greek temple to an Eng-
lish cottage or a Korean pagoda; and
visitors wander about eating such exotic
foods as Creek baklava or melomaka-
rino, English roast suckling pig, Nor-
wegian [else and rommegrot, and round
red Dutch cheeses.

ARS Election

The American Recreation Society
elected new officers at the annual meet-
ing of the society in St. Louis. These
officers, who will serve for a year, are:
President——Sterling S. Winans. direc-

_ 586

tor of recreation, California Recreation
Commission; first vice-president—v—Har-
ry C. English, director of community
centers, Washington, D. C.; second
vice-president—Miss Pat Abernethy,
advisor, Army Service Clubs, Washing-
ton, D. C.; secretary—Eugene Bern-
well, director of recreation, Alexandria,
Virginia; treasurer—Charles Boyce,
community center director, Washing-
ton, D. C.; and president-elect—George
T. Sargisson, executive director, Rec-
reation and Promotion Service, Wil-
mington, Delaware.

Here and There

0 The Rev. Dr. James W. Clarke, min-
ister of the Second Presbyterian Church
of St. Louis, who made the inspiring
banquet address at the recent National
Recreation Congress, has been ap-
pointed professor of homiletics at
Princeton Theological Seminary.

0 Dr. Philip L. Seman, honorary presi-
dent of the Chicago Recreation Com-
mission, as well as one of its founders,
and general manager of the Jewish Peo-
ple’s Institute for over thirty years, re-
cently received the “Man of the Year
in Jewish Education Award” from the
American Association for Jewish Edu-
cation at the organization’s annual con-
ference.

Q E. Dana Caulkins, has resigned his
position as superintendent for the West-
chester County Recreation Commission,
a position he held since 1933, to become
recreation consultant to the Health and
Welfare Council of the counties of Dela-
ware, Montgomery, and Philadelphia,

Pennsylvania.

0 Berea College and the Council of
Southern Mountain Workers, in c00per-
ation with the Country Dance Society
of America, Inc., will sponsor the seven-
teenth Christmas School at Berea, Ken-
tucky, December 27, 1954, to January
2, 1955. The Christmas School, estab-
lished to serve the Southern Highlands,
is open to all persons interested in au-
thentic American, English, and Danish
material, including the traditional
dances, singing games, songs, tales, and
music of the Southern Highlands. For
information, write to Frank H. Smith,
Director, Box 1826, Berea College,

Berea, Kentucky.

0 Spectator conduct at high school
football games has been a frequent tar-
get of criticism as game disturbances

and rowdyism have increased. How-
ever, in Toledo, Ohio, sixteen area high
schools completed their schedules free
of any such criticism. Key to this fine
performance record was the Sportsman-
ship Contest, conceived, planned, spon-
sored, and operated by the Toledo Area
Student Council. Basis of the contest
was a sportsmanship code drawn up
several years ago by the area council,
re-adapted to cover incidents occurring
away from high school games, such as
student behavior on busses, neighbor-
hood fights, destruction of property,
and downtown disturbances.

Oflicials at each football game rated
both competing schools on sportsman-
ship as determined by attitudes of play-
ers, cooperation of coaches, sportsman-
ship and school spirit of the student
body, and conduct of players and stu-
dent bodies after the game. An inde-
pendent rating of the schools was pre-
pared by representatives of the press
covering the game, and the area police
departments. The Toledo Blade pub-
lished weekly ratings by the game offi-
cials, sports writers and police. Results
were summed up by E. L. Bowsher,
superintendent of Toledo schools, “It
is a great achievement; and it is my
hope that this program may be carried
on for a long time to come.”

0 “Leadership first, facilities later” is
the recommendation of a report on an
enlarged recreation program for the
cities of Alcoa and Maryville and for
Blount County in Tennessee. The re-
port entitled “Public Recreation-—A
Plan for Community Action,” calls for
the formation of an official recreation
commission in Alcoa, Maryville, and
Blount County and coordination of rec-
reation activities for the three areas,
north of the Great Smoky Mountain N a-
tional Park. The recreation study com-
mittee’s report was prepared in coopera-
tion with the Division of State Planning
of the Tennessee State Planning Com-
mission and the Division of State Parks
of the Tennessee Department of Con-
servation, with William M. Hay, con-
sultant on Defense Related Recreation
Services of the National Recreation
Association, as special advisor.

O A zoological garden at Angrigron
Park in the densely-populated Ville
Emard district of Montreal, Canada, is
reaching its final stages of development
after thirty years of “slow accretion” as
regards funds and acreage. The zoo,
for which the city council recently pur-

chased 5,613,939 square feet of addi-
tional land, will cost about $7,000,000
when completed. The surrounding park
will cover an area of around 260 acres.
The Montreal Parks and Playgrounds
Department is also constructing a chil-
dren’s zoo in Lafontaine Park. This

RECREATION

will contain seven ponds and seventeen
units illustrating French nursery-rhyme
themes. There will be a giant Jonah’s
Whale with stomach big enough for
children to walk around in and a huge
Noah’s Ark to clamber through. They’ll
buy ice cream cones in the shoe of the
old woman “who had so many children
she didn’t know what to do.” There are
also long-range plans for another chil-
dren’s zoo in the western Notre Dame
de Grace area of the city.

0 From Athens, Greece, John H. Bru-
ner, assistant secretary of the Far East
Foundation, reports on the work of the
demonstration rehabilitation center
operated by the foundation in coopera-
tion with the Greek Government. The
center staged an athletic field day to
show that wooden legs are no hindrance
to gymnastics. Children as well as
young men and' women demonstrated a
mass Swedish drill, foot races, exercises
on the parallel bars, and the fete ended
with a basketball game.

9 John Moake, superintendent of parks
and recreation in Carbondale, Illinois,
obtained a truck for use in his depart-
ment free of charge in the same man-
ner that schools receive the use of new
cars for driver training courses. He
talked to a car dealer who agreed to
supply the truck—which carries a sign
reading “Carbondale Park District”—
and, at the close of the year, if the truck
is returned to the dealer in good con-
dition, Mr. Moake will receive another
for use the following year.

9 Ice skating is in season and four
communities announce increased facili-
ties. The tennis courts at Ballenger
Park, Flint, Michigan, will change over
to an outdoor rink through the installa-
tion of take-up type equipment. Super-
vision and instruction at this privately
endowed park will be directed by Frank
J. Manley of the Mott Foundation.

A new artificial outdoor rink in
Utica, New York, will be used for danc-
ing and roller skating during the sum-
mer months.

Syracuse, New York, has put ice
skating on a year-round basis, and next
summer an out-of-season program will
include lessons in free-style figure skat-
ing, general straight skating, patch
skating and ice dancing.

The city council of Niagara Falls,
New York, recently authorized a new
artificial rink approximately 80 by 180
feet to cost $45,000. The council’s ap-
proval of the project climaxed one of
the most intensive public campaigns for
a municipal project ever waged. Scores
of organizations and individuals joined
forces to press the project.

9 Fall and winter activities at thirty-
eight New York City Police Athletic

DECEMBER. 1954

League recreation centers started with
the annual city-wide registration for
1954-55 membership, which is Open to
all boys and girls between the ages of
seven and twenty, inclusive. The PAL
recreation program for New York City
youth is sponsored by the police de-
partment, staffed by recreation special-
ists, and supported as a community re-
sponsihility by the contributions of the
general public.

The program consists of physical,
social and cultural activities. James B.
Nolan, deputy police commissioner and
president of the League, announced that
more than a quarter of a million boys
and girls participated in the activities
last year.

Facts and Figures

New Jersey—Purchase of approxi-
mately six thousand acres for a new
state park near the Delaware Water Gap
was authorized recently at a cost of
$420,000. The area has four and one-
half miles of frontage on the Delaware
River, contains three trout streams, and
the one-hundred-and-thirty-acre Sun-
fish Pond, a natural lake on one of the
ridges of the Kittatinny Range.

Ohio—Norwalk opened a swimming
pool at a cost of seventy-three thousand
dollars. Cleveland has ten new ultra-
modern swimming pools at a cost of ap-
proximately one million dollars. They
are called “walk to” pools because they
are in areas where there are thirty-five
thousand people within a three-quarter
mile distance.

Oklahoma — Boiling Springs State
Park will soon offer many new features.
The bubbling springs for which the park
was named will be glassed in and a huge
picnic shelter built over them.

South Dakota—Lands surrounding
the six-thousand-acre Angostura Reser-
voir on the Cheyenne River have been
acquired for park and recreation de-
velopment.

Texas—A fifty-year lease for four
hundred and sixteen acres in the Den-
nison Reservoir area for use as part of
Eisenhower State Park was signed re-
cently hy the Texas State Parks Board.

Notes From Our Headquarters

0 Two recent changes of address for
National Recreation Association field
staff personnel are:

William Hay, P. O. Box 1094, De-
catur, Georgia.

Waldo Hainsworth, Fowler Road,
Northbridge, Massachusetts.

0 Members of the Association staff re-
turning from the Congress were greeted
with the following note, placed conspic-
uously in the center of each desk, from
one of the many Congress-minded staff
members who stayed at home to keep

the behind-the-scenes wheels rolling:

WELCOME HOME To:

1. Full III-Baskets

2. Moving! (More file cleaning!)

3. Noise from Metropolitan Life (They have
new, louder drills just for your homecoming!)

4. The same Creaky Elevators

5. More Forms to fill out. (Wilson’s been
working!)

6. Hidden Radios (Bless the Giants!)

7. Irate office workers! (We wanted to go
to St. Louis, too!)

P.S. Please spare us .......... ..We know the 36th
Congress was the Biggest and Best ................ ..
just do us a favor and .............. ..work!

(They also served who only stayed home and
listened to the World Series!)

1N MEMORIAM
\Villiam G. Robinson

William G. Rohinson, former staff
member of the National Recreation
Association, died at Ann Arbor, Michi-
gan, on October 24 at seventy-one.

Mr. Robinson, a graduate of Yale
University, served the Association from
1919 until 1941, first as a division scc-
retary and then as a Great Lakes Dis-
trict field representative. During World
War II he worked with the Ollice of
Community War Services of the Fed-
eral Security Agency. He later became
assistant in community organization
for the University of Michigan Exten-
sion Service. After his retirement from
this position, in 1952, he continued
serving in the capacity of consultant.

Mr. Robinson, who was (lert-edly
considered the “grand old man” of pub-
lic recreation in Michigan, was awarded
a plaque by the Michigan Recreation
Association in 1952 for his long and
distinguished service in his chosen field.

Eugene T. Lies

Eugene T. Lies, who was seventy-
eight years old, died on October 27 at
Tucson, Arizona.

Mr. Lies was a member of the staff
of the National Recreation Association
from 1918 until 1940, working part of
that time as the field representative for
the Southwest District. He was a grad-
uate of Cornell University and the New
York School of Social Work. Before
joining the Association staff, he was the
general superintendent of the United
Charities of Chicago.

He traveled extensively throughout
the United States and in Europe and
Mexico, studying local customs and
community conditions. He prepared
numerous studies and surveys and was
the author of several articles and the
book, The New Leisure Challenges the
Schools, which was published jointly
by the National Education Association
and the National Recreation Associa-
tion in 1933. One of his oft-repeated
statements was his self-coined recipe
for longevity: “Keep limber, lovin’ and

I”

a little bit looney.

58'? ,

 

30W¢ (5a St. [W

36th National Recreation Congress

Early birds manage to avoid the big rush at the Con-
gress registration center. I’eg Dankworth of the Na-
tional Recreation Association staff, who was in charge
of the center, is standing between two St. Louis volun—
teers as she gives them some necessary pointers. In
the background, John Collier, district representative
for the NRA, pins an identification badge on one of
the first to sign in, Leroy Tintle, the superintendent
of recreation in Hempstead, Long Island, New York.

    

"'0
n

l
U
“A
we

Delegates in Action at the

     
    
   
  

George IIjelte, general man-
ager, Department of Recre-
ation and Parks, Los An-
geles, and chairman of the
National Advisory Council
of the National Recreation
Association, is welcomed by
Joseph I’rendergast, execu-
tive director of the Associa-
tion, as Congress starts.

I

Display of RECREATION magazine at the hm? “wh'miau emf—a
Congress attracted many visitors, inclnd-
ing, from left to right: Catherine Allen,
professor of recreation at the University
of Tennessee in Knoxville; Beatrice Froe—
lich, supervisor of playgrounds and girls’ RE

and women’s activities, Canton, Ohio; and 3&0]?! 1
Helen Danncey, the Katherine F. Barker

Memorial Seeretary for \Vomen and Girls n” I' Dr.  lax.
o o o o . I
and soeial recreation specialist for NRA. f1, djumnxc,“

Left, members of the diseussiou panel on prob
lems of recreation boards and commissions, fron
left to right: James A. Downey, Jr., president
Park and Recreation Board, Birmingham, Ala
bama; chairman, Mrs. Everett M. Findlay, past
president, Recreation Commission, Long licach
California; Mildred G. Johnson, member, Recre
ation Commission, Oakland, California; John (I
Kubacki, president of the Board of Recreation
Reading, Pennsylvania; a truly qualified group

Relow, three members of one of the discussior
panels on recreation leadership in correctiona
institutions, left to right: Leonard lirnmm, Jr.
recreation dircetor, Michigan State Prison, Mar
quette; Fred Grigg, superintendent of l'mstcat
Youth Center, Rutuer, North Carolina; and W
C. \rilliamson, recreation director, Georgi:

o O

'l'rannng School for lioys, Milledgeville, Georgia

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

Tom Rivers, left, secretary

qm?’:‘;ln ‘ " w-u- of National Recreation Con-
b" ' gresses for the Association,

3.: receives a hearty invitation
g": .' from J. Earl Schlupp, direc-
‘S 1 tor of recreation of the City

 ' and County of Denver, Col-

, t orado, to hold the 1955 ses-
 1 rd  sions of the congress at the
l hospitablc“Mile-llighCity.”

 

  

. Left, tvvo hundred and fifty interested recreation
leaders watch a “live” demonstration of ereative
- 0 dramatics coudueted by Grace htanistreet, center.

 

. director of Children’s Theatre, Adclphi College
' 9‘ in Garden City, New York. Children are. from
r: r,’.' St. Louis, had not had any prior experience.

is

Below, Gaylord Donnelley, left, board member
of the National Recreation Association. and C.
D. Jackson, vice-president of Time lne. and one
of the speakers at the Congress, compare two
leading periodicals in the sports and rcereation

field: RECREATlON and Sports Illustrated.

 

RECREATION is glad to record new or unique
types of recreation equipment and modifica-
tions in usual designs or construction meth-
ods. Readers are requested to submit infor-
mation about such developments for use in
future issues.

 

Beach Kindergarten Area
0 The kindergarten area above, at Met-
r0politan Beach, one of the properties

  

Playfield adjoins sand beach. Beyond the
kindergarten are shumeboard courts and
an eighteen-hole pitch-putt golf course.

operated by the Huron Clinton Metro-
politan Authority in Detroit, Michigan,
has several unusual features. One of
these is a concrete sandbox, seventy-two
feet long and four feet wide, with a tile
plaque repreSenting scenes from Mother
Goose rhymes set along the t0p. An or-
namental fence along the sandbox per-
mits parents and visitors to view the
children at play without interference.
Covering the sandbox is a translucent
plastic roof which suifuses a soft green
light and protects the occupants from
the full glare of the sun.

Manufactured equipment pieces,
other than regular swings and slides,
which have proved to be extremely pop-
ular are the revolving garden gates,
shown in the accompanying picture,
and bucking bronco swings. Most of
the play equipment was constructed in

590

 

 

RECREATION

Faccfééz‘c'ea

mad

Egmzmm

( Continued from October 1954 issue of RECREATION)

the authority’s shOps and was designed
after conferences with teachers at the
Merrill Palmer School in Detroit, recog-
nized as outstanding authorities on
child psychology. It consists largely of
horses, springboards, crates, hidden
boxes, planks, large wooden blocks, and
ladders.

This equipment is arranged entirely
by the youngsters themselves who show
considerable ingenuity in assembling
the pieces to form obstacle courses as

well as for imaginative play. These play

 

Drinking fountains are easily accessible.

materials become teeter-totters, castles,
balancing and jumping boards, and ex-
ercise bars as youngsters devise new
combinations and uses. Colors are lim-
ited to three bright hues, since more
would only tend to confuse the children.

Toilet facilities, scaled for children,
are available in an immediately adja-
cent wing of the main building group,
and tot-size drinking fountains are also
nearby. Three sizes of tricycles are fur-
nished for the different age groups. Use

 

of the playground is restricted to chil-
dren from two to seven years. Constant
supervision is provided for the area by
trained personnel.

For added interest, nature exhibits
are placed in the building adjoining
the kindergarten area, and frequent
changes are made in the exhibits which
are prepared by the authority’s senior
naturalist. An Indian tepee was erected
in one corner of the grounds, but proved
to be something of a nuisance and was
discontinued.

The kindergarten area is a most pop-
ular unit at Metropolitan Beach which
affords not only facilities for bathing,
but a beach promenade thirty-two feet
wide, twenty shufHeboard courts, a
pitch-and-putt golf course, aplayground
for older children, a turtle race track,
boat basins, and a softball diamond.
Several of these are shown in the accom-
panying illustration.

A Removable Fence

o The problem of adapting a single
baseball field to the needs of Little

Boys set up fence for Little League base-

ball. Most recreation authorities do not
approve advertising on public properties.

 

I"

League, Pony League, and adult soft-
ball teams was solved in Alice, Texas,
by the construction of a movable fence,
enabling the diamond to be used by all
three groups. According to Ben Par-
sons, city director of parks and recrea-
tion, who developed the idea, the fence
has overcome a problem caused by a
shortage of manpower and capital.

The fence, Mr. Parsons reports, was
designed so it would not be too bulky
and heavy, but would be sturdy enough
to last several seasons. Each section,
four by twelve feet, was made of out-
side plywood, backed by two-by-fours

 

Cement

Connection in portable fence.
contains sunken pipe into which twelve-
inch pipe fits to provide fence support.

for support. Two pieces of one-inch
heavy duty pipe, four and a half feet
long, were bolted to the two-by-fours on
each section so they protruded one foot
below the bottom of the fence. Pieces
of one-and-a-half-inch pipe, one foot
long, were then set in cement in the
ground at the prOper locations for thc
fence, thus allowing the one-inch pipe
protruding from the sections of fence to
fit inside and afford a support. The one-
half-inch play in the pipe allows the
fence to be removed readily. The fence-
lnoving operation requires an average
of only seven minutes, enabling the ficld
to be converted while one team is hav-
ing its infield practice.

The pitching mound on the diamond
was constructed in an oval shape and all
three pitchers’ rubbers were mounded
at the regulation distance. The bases
are held in place by two sets of spikes,
one set at sixty feet for Little League
and-softball, and one at seventy-five feet
for Pony League. The field thus meets
the official requirements for all three
games.

DECEMBER 1954

u’ '6‘.“ :1. J7 pip: pa.”-
loop (I'M/A." Jmowo may

h__JL_u_k_._&__u_

\

I

JAIN/050,?

If ’ 6144!?! .52: pm:

FIA/C'E 190.5!"

J ' f 100.0
14’wa pair:

I'- {30'

 

ADMINISI’RAI’IO

1P*1

T-..

r® 6

|
"L'i—__T—_—T__T--T—_,T

ir——r-

AID/'53 army/E Air/Jr
muffinwc .«W 60x

 

Playground Facilities in Oakland

0 Several features developed by the rec-
reation department in Oakland, Califor-
nia, afford suggestions that might be
useful to other cities. One of them is the
two-unit sandbox designed for the use
of young children. In order to afford
a place where children can make sand
pies and other shapes on the edge of the
box and to prevent the sand from being
Spilled outside the box, a shelf or seat
with a back was incorporated in the
sandbox design. The accompanying
sketch shows the plan for a concrete

.sandhox with the two units, each ap-

proximately eight feet square. Between
them is a low shelf, eleven and a half
inches wide. The exterior walls of the
sandbox take the form of a shelf or scat,
elcven and a half inches wide, with a
back eight inches high. The skctch
shows how the walls of the sandbox arc
modified whenever they are used as a
support for a fence.

In Oakland the first choice of a sur-
face for the apparatus area is sand; and,
where sand is used in this way, sand-
boxes are usually eliminated. Where the
apparatus area is close to a building

591

with good fioors, [anbark is used for 3 Rear columns of playground bleachers in

. . . Oakland were molded in old water boiler.
surfac1ng materlal, and spec1al sand-

boxes are provided. These are being
moved away from the tanbark,however,
because when sand is spilled on the tan-
bark it gives a playground an unattrac-
tive appearance. Bert M. Trubody, the
department’s superintendent of main-
tenance and construction, has made the

 

following connnents concerning the use
of sand and tanhark:

"We find tanbark good looking, resil-
ient, and easy on floors, but it is hard
to keep free of broken glass and foreign

matter. Also, It needs frequent addl- 5-6;,” A”
tions and in two or three years turns to "cgzw4w5zp"_rr/c( mane;

dust and looks like top soil needing M MM: Wm If”?
complete replacement. Sand, on the
other hand, looks as good after six years
as when first put in. It requires yearly 1:" '6‘»sz 67-- I'M-WE
supplements also, but the cost is much
less. We have a large scoop shovel with
the bottom cut out with a torch and one-
half—inch-mesh rabbit wire welded in.
Each caretaker has one and, in a matter

2,512.5352

of minutes, can sift a large sand area

clear of foreign matter.”
5/05 51 EV:

o Bleachers which are very rigid in con- ” = I: 0"
struction have been designed for play- 51 [,4 (1/5,? 9554/;
ground use. Their unique feature is the
use of concrete rear columns, fourteen
inches in diameter, which support the.
bleachers and eliminatc the need for lat-
eral or cross bracing. An old water boil-
er provides the form for the column,
which takes the side motion thrust. This
type of bleacher has proved a boon and
a time-saver for the maintenance lnan

 

    
   

1m 6421’ “kt”

since it is easy to clean out under it.

0 Basketball backst0ps of waterproof
plywood with adjustable brackets have
also proved effective. Two boards and

F’Jt‘

    

W121 (745m(
{'1 JITJ'CPIN

f' 'JMK I“

brackets can be erected on a single four-
inch pipe support, and they can be ad-
justed to different heights if desired. A
specially built saddle enables the angle
braces supporting the backst0ps to be
fastened securely to the pipe. The ac-

54.0.01! £ 05/7422.

 

 

F444;? ‘4
£1. an no»!

.

 

companying illustration shows a singlc
backstop, and the sketch affords c011-
struction details.

 

RECREATION

592

 

Readers are invited to send in information about research reports which
might be reviewed or summarized in this section of the magazine.

A Citizens’ Study of Recreation and Group \Vork’i=

Public and Private Agencies, Dade County, Florida
A Review

This excellent study, conducted in 1953, was carried out
under the direction of a professional staff hcaded by Sidney
B. Markey for group work agencies and by Weaver W. Pang-
burn for public agencies. A citizens’ study committce of
fifty-six persons reviewed the professional survey, conferrcd
with thc agencies involved, and submitted their recommen-
dations to the entirc committee. The purpose of the study
was “. . . To prepare a long-range plan for the orderly de-
velopment of needed buildings and grounds and the staff
and program requirements . . ..in Dade County.”

Primarily because of the extremely rapid growth of pop-
ulation in the county, the study possesses considerable sig-
nificance as a means of determining the extent to which the
needs of the people are 110w being met and what must be
done to meet these needs more adequately now and in the
future. Data were collected through “questionnaires, con-
fcrences with agency leaders both professional and lay,
and through study of many reports and documents.” There
is no indication that the consumer, or participant, youth or
adult, was questioncd to determine his point of view with
respect to various aspects of the agencies under considera-
tion. This failure, if it actually occurred, seems to be a ma-
jor weakness in the study. Other criticisms are:

1. The parochial school report indicates a lack of thor-
ouglmess.

2. The study refers to “the lack of major recreation
courses in the universities of the state.” Florida State Uni-
versity in Tallahassee offers both an undergraduate and a

graduate major in recreation while thc University of Florida ‘

in Cainesville offers an undergraduate major in recreation.
3. Emphasis upon the quantitative aspects of recreation
to the neglect of the qualitative.
4. The recommendation that gylnnasiums are unneccs-
sary in elementary schools cannot be justified.

ln general, however, the study is a superior one, data es-
scntial to it were collected, carefully analyzed, and recom-
mendations in harmony with the facts were presented in
clcar and convincing lnanner, thus offering an excellent blue-
print for the future.——DR. HOWARD G. DANFORD, director
of physical education, Florida State University, Tallahassee.

 

* Published by Community Chest of Dade County, Welfare Plan-
ning Council of Dadc County, Miami, Florida, March 1954.

MR. BUTLER is director of the NRA Research Department.

DECEMBER 1954

Accidents on Recreation Facilities

This study by John Montgomcry, a member of the Oak-
land, Caltfortna, recreation departntcnt staff, was made at

the University of Illinois whilc the author was on a leavc
of absencc for graduate study. Thc statistics in the report
are based on accident data gathered by the Oakland recrea-
tion department on forms designcd for accident reports.

The following are some of the major findings as rcported

in the July 1954 issuc of the lllinois Recreation Association
Bulletin:

Elementary playgrounds have the largest percentage of accidents
in proportion to their attendance.

Community centers and municipal playgrounds ltavc the largest
number of accidents, but this number is not out of proportion to the
number of people scrved. '

Junior and senior high school facilities have the least number of
accidents for general city play facilities.

Ball diamonds and swimming pools have a high percentage of ac-
eidents in pr0portion to their attendance.

Other facilities, day and mountain camps, and golf courses, have a
small percentage of accidents.

Almost three times as many bays are injured than girls, while there
arc not quite twice as many b0ys on recreation facilities.

Adult injuries are not cut of proportion to numbers who participate
in recreation aetivities but, whcn thcy do occur, they are apt to he
more serious than children’s injuries.

Playing in the apparatus areas was thc activity most often engaged
in when accidents occurred.

The second greatest percentage of accidents occurred during soft-
ball games. The game can be hazardous if poorly supervised or
coached.

Running, in a nan-game situation, was the third greatest accident-
inducing activity, while being a spectator was fourth.

Most frequently injured parts of anatomy were, in order of fre-
quency: face, skull, arms and hands, legs and feet.

Lacerations (35.5 per cent) and bruises (24.4 per cent) account
for more than half of the types of injuries incurred upon recreation
facilities.

Accidents occur most frequently during the timc when attendanee
is largest. ..

Serious accidents follow the general pattern of all accidents with
the exception that arm and hand injuries produce 23 per eent of all
serious injurics. Then in order of frequency arc those of thc face,
legs, and skull. These four categories account for 75 per eent of all
serious injuries.

A further breakdown shows that 61 per cent of ball diamond in-
juries were serious; 43 per cent of swimming pool and 36.5 per cent
of municipal and community center facility injuries were serious.

Malcs not only had a much higher percentage of all injuries but
tended to have more serious accidents than females.

Mr. Montgomery’s report also contains a list of the prin-
cipal causes of accidents and suggestions for an accident
report system and use of the results.

Municipal Recreation Services in North Carolina

The North Carolina Recreation Commission has issued
a third annual report of municipal recreation services 'in the

593

George D. Bul

state, covering the year July 1953 to June 1954, and based
on information supplied by administrators in thirty-six
cities. The report covers a variety of subjects including,
among others: the managing authority, its composition and
legal status; the source of funds for operation and their re-
lation to the total city budget; the breakdown of recreation
service expenditures; per capita costs; and major improve-
ments for the year. Tables also give, for each city, the
salaries paid to personnel holding various recreation posi-
tions. Expenditures data include amounts spent for serv-
ices rendered by both recreation and park departments.
Even though the report relates to municipal recreation
services in a single state, it contains much information of
value and interest to all recreation authorities such as:

1. Of forty-four year-round, municipally operated depart-
ments in the state, reports were received from thirty-six
cities with about twenty-five per cent of the state’s total popu-

lation.

2. Recreation service is administered by a recreation
commission in twenty cities, by a recreation and park com-
mission in six and by an advisory recreation commission or
committee in eight cities. Only one city reports that it has
no form of board or committee.

3. In twenty-eight of the cities the commission or com-
mittee was created by local ordinance. In twenty-seven (or
three-fourths) the program has been legally established
since 1944. By-laws have been adopted in nineteen cities.

4. Over-all, master, or long range development plans for
recreation have been made in twenty-seven of the cities.

 

5. Operating budgets for the year vary from $1,800 in a
town of 3,700 to $423,304 in Charlotte, which has a popula-
tion of 145,016. The budgets for the thirty-six communi-
ties averaged $2.29 per capita. Fourteen cities had a budget
of $2.00 to $3.00 per capita; eight cities, a budget between
$3.00 and $4.00; and one city, between $4.00 and $5.00.
The total in operating budgets (thirty-six cities) for 1952-
53 was $4,199,745 as compared with a total for 1951-52
(thirty-three cities) of $3,552,982.

6. The percentage of the total operating budgets spent
for recreation varied from .42 per cent to 13.61 per cent.
For the cities as a whole, recreation accounted for nearly
5 per cent of the cities’ budgets. (This compares with 4.4
per cent reported spent in 1951 by 481 cities of 25,000 and

over, according to the Bureau of the Census.)

7. The average percentage of the recreation budget spent
for leadership was 49 per cent in the thirty-three cities re-
porting. The percentage for special facilities (pools, stadia,
armories, miniature trains, merry-go-rounds, concessions
and so on) varied from 0 to 40 per cent, averaging 14 per
cent of the total recreation budget in the twenty-four cities
reporting.

8. Among the major improvements during the year from
current budgets were: a golf course in Winston-Salem, swim-
ming pool and bathhouse in Greensboro, addition of nine
holes to the golf course and a bathhouse in Gastonia, a rec-
reation center in New Bern, purchase of land for a park in
Lumberton.

594

Other major improvements, most of them from' bond
funds, were: community center building and swimming pool
in Charlotte, community building in Durham, two swim-
ming pools in Burlington, pools in Kinston, Shelby, Hick-
ory, Statesville, Morganton, and Kings Mountain.

. 9. The average salary paid to workers in various posi-
tlons in cities of different populations was:

25,000 10,000 9,999 All
and up to 24,999 to 5,000 Cities
Superintendent
or Director .................... ..$5,419 $5,093 $4,361 $5,080
Division Supervisor .......... .. 3,401 2,701 2,840 3,018
Community Center
Director  2,674 2,175 2,300 2,633
Maintenance Superintendent
or Foreman ...................... .. 3,075 2,806 ...... .. 3,026
Secretary and Clerical ‘
Staff ................................ .. 2,412 1,747 1,848 2,242

The report also gives specific salaries paid to a variety of
workers in each of the cities reported.

Recreation in Cleveland Industries

The research department of Associated Industries of
Cleveland asked a representative cross section of member
companies for facts concerning their recreation programs
in order that the association might be in a position to an-
swer many inquiries received with reference to such pro-
grams. Its questions covered such items as activities, cost,
supervision, participation and benefits. Replies from twenty-
one companies, varying widely in size, were summarized in
the organization’s newsletter for July 15, 1954. Some of
these findings were as follows:

1. Most common features of the companies’ recreation
programs are bowling, golf, picnics, theater tickets, softball,
banquets, Christmas parties, fishing and social dancing, in
the order named.

2. Program costs ranged from $800 annually for a small
company to $55,000 for a large one.

3. The average company cost per employee per year for
seven companies with 1,000 workers and over was $7.71.
The average cost for seven companies with 500 to 999 fac-
tory workers was $6.25 and for seven companies with 100
to 499 factory workers, $8.02 per year. The average com-

'pany cost per employee per year for the twenty-one com-

panies was $7.34 and the range, from $.50 to $14.29.

4. Only one of the companies reported employing a full-
time director of recreation. In the average company a mem-
ber of the industrial relations or personnel department
serves as a part-time director of the recreation program.
Employee associations and groups frequently assist in the
planning and administration of the program.

5. From 8 per cent to 40 per cent of the total company
employees participate in the activities. The highest employee
participation (26.1 per cent) occurs in the companies with
1,000 or more employees. Second best participation (24.7
per cent) is in the 500 to 999 group, and the lowest (22.5
per cent) in the smallest employee group. The average for
all companies is 24.4 per cent of all workers.

The report states, “While the primary purpose of the com-
pany recreation program is to improve employee morale, it
actually serves a two-ply purpose: It offers the employee
an opportunity for a well-balanced life, and it provides man-
agement with employees who are better fitted to do their
'obs.

J “In an operational sense the company recreation pro-
gram is a form of maintenance for the human resources of
the company. It is an aid to industrial relations and an ad-
junct to public relations, both of which pay handsome divi-

dends at the community level.”

RECREATION

 

N for the Administrator

 

Volunteer Services

The value resulting from encouraging citizen participa-
tion in civic activities was stressed in two articles appearing
in a recent issue of the National Municipal Review. One of
them, by Dr. George H. Gallup, president of the National
Municipal League, emphasized the necessity of deve10ping
ways in which more citizens can help with local and state

problcms. He mentioned the encouraging record resulting -

from the appointment of citizens’ committees in recent years.
“An important point to bear in mind is that a great majority
of the people in the United States would like to devote some
of their time and energy to dealing with governmental prob-
lems. In a survey made a few years ago, it was discovered
that a substantial majority of persons would be willing to
give time each week, without pay, to help solve such local
problems as housing, health, crime, relief and the like. As
matter of fact, the survey found that the busiest pe0ple were
the most willing to devote timc and effort to local problems.”

Mr. Frank C. Moore, former lieutenant-governor and
comptroller of New York State, in the same issue, reported
that citizen participation in government affairs has been
stimulated and encouraged through the committee method.
He cited various examples to illustrate the value of such
participation and stated, “Citizens who participated were
glad and eager to serve again while others enthusiastically
offered their help.”

Out of his own experience, Mr. Moore suggested several
important stops in setting up and Operating a committee:

1. Define the problem as precisely as possible.

2. Carefully determine the personnel of the committee,
have women as well as men members and persons whose
stature would favorably impress the body having power to
act upon the committee’s recommendations. Give weight to
ge0graphical and political distribution. Do not appoint per-
sons who would have to clear their views and vote with an
organization. Do not select persons who would stand to
profit personally from the committee’s action.

3. Get committee meetings under way swiftly and get
work done by frequent, long meetings over a short period of
time. Have the meetings at an unattractive, business-like and
not too comfortable place.

4. Obtain, with maximum accuracy and speed, up-to-the-
moment factual information and devise a plan for keeping it
up to date as the study pr0gresses.

5. Have experts present all the facts to the committee
before anyone is permitted to eXpress his views or get into
fixed position. After discussion, peg down points of agree-
ment and segregate for further discussion points of disagree-
ment. Often the facts will show the way toward answers.

6. Never forget your target is solution of the problem—
not merely publication of a report. A report should be pub-
lished, however—clear, concise and correct, easily read and
understood, attractively presented and widely distributed.
It should be a means to effective action by the legislature,
governor and people.

Citizen Partieipation in Munieipal Affairs

Eight methods of encouraging citizen participation in
local government were discussed at the Third Municipal
Management Institute at the University of Georgia. Mrs.
Thomas F. Maxwell, city manager of Columbia, South Car-
olina, who chaired the group discussion, summarized the

DECEMBER 1954

conclusions in an article in the August 1954 issue of Public
Management.

The group concludcd that the chief administrator should
give Special attention to complaint proccdures, public report-
ing, and public relations training for city employees. Pub-
lic hearings are of value, especially on controversial ques-
tions. The appointment of citizen advisory committees to
study specific major problems stimulates both citizens and
city officials.

Certain other means of encouraging citizen participation
should be used only under special circumstances. Suggcs-
tion boxes and information polls, for example, may lead to
citizen expectations that cannot be fulfilled. Other devices
to be used with caution include neighborhood meetings,
public forums, and formal referenda on public questions.

The conclusions reached by the city managers and other

“municipal officials who participated in the meeting afford

suggestions for recreation executives in deve10ping a good
public relation program.

A Vending Ordinance

At the request of the recreation and park commission of
East Baton Rouge Parish, Louisiana, the City-Parish Coun-
cil has passed a vending ordinance designed to overcome the
difficulty resulting from unauthorized persons coming into
park areas and selling merchandise. The ncwly adopted ordi-
nance not only gives exclusive authorization to the commis-
sion to administer the sale of merchandise on its prOperties,
but even prohibits the sale of merchandise on the streets
passing through park areas, thereby prohibiting persons
with street-vending licenses from coming into the parks.
During the first year the ordinance was in effect, the com-
mission cleared a net profit of over $13,000.

Improvement Program '

A five-year capital improvcment program, in Baton
Rouge, calling for expenditures totaling $2,388,194 in the
period 1953-58, has been prepared for the recreation and
park commission. The program calls for both the acquisi-
tion of lands and for the improvement of cxisting areas. The
immediate concern of the commission, however, is for the
development of existing park areas which now total 1,010
acres as compared with only 163 acres in 1945.

Report of a Successful Experiment

The Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teach-
ing has issued a report of a five-year experiment in assisting
teachers to engage in research. The primary interest of the
program was in the professor and in his research rather than
in the solution of specific problems. It was aimed to encour-
age faculty members to carry on research and crcative ac-
tivities in fields in which they were interesth and compe-
tent. “The underlying theory is simple. It is that a teacher
actively engaged on a scholarly research or creative project
of his own choosing has more than a fair chance of main-
taining an intellectual activity which directly and indirectly
serves to raise his scholarly self-respect and to make him a
more effective teacher.” The report indicates in detail that
the purpose of the experiment was highly successful. ,

Even though no funds are available to underwrite a simi-
lar program for persons engaged in recreation leadership,
the experiment indicates that recreation executives might
profitably encourage their workers to engage in appr0priate
research or creative activities. '

595

ADMINISTRATION

  
   

    

When the jingle-bell season rolls
around, there’s no need to bank on the
weather for a white Christmas; you can

get “snowed in” with novel and lovely
decorations made from glistening drifts
of soapsuds!

One of the greatest joys of soapsuds
“snow” is that cleaning up when the
festivities are over is so simple. This
“snow” melts off mirrors and windows
at the touch of a wet cloth, and lcaves
them as bright and shining as the new
year. And because this decoration
doesn’t shed, floors stay neat.

In addition to being inexpensive,
trimming with soapsuds allows the chil-
dren to take an active part in the deco-

Appiying soapsud snow designs to a win—
dow is an easy and enjoyable decorating

 

  
 

1-3:. -
Cl . F .I I I. . o
. ; {55312: '}.°3?.7!'. .13. :‘g g ..

I. I. ". I '. a ' ‘l ( t
° "” "tq‘f IHL.‘ 53‘ n 1‘ ml“.""‘ 

rating; soap is easy to use and no harm
is done if a few splatters of the frothy
mixture go astray—a damp cloth does
away with the misplaced suds in a flash.

To make soap snow, use a rotary egg
heater or electric mixer to whip up the
suds in a pitcher or a deep, narrow
howl. A very minimum of warm water
should be added to the soap before beat-
ing. Whip until the suds are “dry” and
of the consistency of thick cream.

Some of the things that may be done
w ith suds and a paintbrush are the deco-
rating of windows and mirrors with jol-
ly Christmas figurcs such as snowmen,
icicles, candles, reindeer, snowflakes.
stars, and many other signs of the sea-
son, as well as lettering them with holi-
day greetings. For greater accuracy of
design, supply the children with sharp
slivers of soap, so that they, or an older
person, may make preliminary sketches
on glass surfaces which then can be
traced or filled in with soapsuds. When
applying soapsuds, allow the first coat
to dry, then add one or two additional
coats, with gentle touches, to give the
design richness and depth. Little cyl-
inders of sparkle-sprinkles may be ob-
tained at dime or variety stores. Shade
some of the sparkles over the wet soap
drawing for added glitter and color.

When applying the suds to the tree,
use a long-handled wooden spoon or
wide paintbrush. Work from the top to
the bottom of the tree, and from the
trunk outward to the branch tips. Let
dry, then heap on another coating. If
you like, decorate the little wet snow-
puffs on the branches with holly berries
or sequins which will “dry-in.” The
soapsuds “drift” enough to look natural
on the tree, wreaths, or any other pieces

Soapsud Snow

For a whiter, brighter Christmas

 

A Christmas wreath takes on a wintry look
with sudsy drifts spooned onto the greens

of greenery.

Scouring powder also makes festivc
trims for mirrors, windows, and glass
doors. Use a paste made of the powder
and a bit of water. Sketch scenes, San
tas, reindeer, and other figures on the
glass surfaces. Again, you can make
preliminary sketches with a soap sliver
Or you can spread an entire .glass sur
face with the paste and trace the draw
ings with a fingertip dipped in watcr
After the holidays, “erase” the draw
ings with a clean, wet cloth.

Evergreen twigs are often difficult tr
place gracefully in a vase. But they cal
be used attractively for the mantlepiec:
or table centerpiece if twigs are drivel
deeply and firmly into a cake of soap—
something else the youngsters can d(
with ease. They also can treat candle:
to prevent smoke or drip—by rolling
each candle between their well-soapet
palms.

So gather the clan—come Christmas
tidc—dip into drifts of soapsuds. am
frost your holiday decorations for th:
snowiest holiday ever.

Recamrm'

A teacher’s ingenuity brings a unique classroom project to her students.

There arc valid reasons for helping
children to create and see the beauty in
a holiday tree that is other than the
usual commercial evergreen. It is very
possible that there may come a Christ-
mas when some child in any given
group may find himself unable to have
a regulation Christmas tree, either be-
cause of the locale in which hc is situ-
ated or because he is without the finan-
cial means necessary for the purchasc
of one.

In a “special education” [Opportu-
nity] room, working with children who
might very well see such a day, one in-
structor devised an ingenious way of
helping thcm sec that Christmas fun and
the things of Christmas need not ne-
cessarily cost money. Equipped with a
small hatchet, she went one afternoon
with her students to search the country

Making a cotton lrec lo give lheir class-
room a holiday air won the children’s
inleresl and slimnlalcd creative abililies.

 

DECEMBER 1954

A Cotton Tree

Beatrice Ford Parker

roads and empty lots for a dead decido
uous tree which they might use in their
room for the holiday season.

The children found and cut down a
small tree of the right proportions and
carried it back to the school, where they
trimmed and broke off the small twigs
and branches and built a stand for it.
Students were then asked to bring in
cotton, kapok, flannel, or any other ma~
terial suitable for covering the tree, and
the school nurse was able to contribute
some cotton. The cotton was cleaned in
oatmeal, thcn stretched along the
boughs where it was wrapped around
and pressed to thc rough texture of the

bark.

In this particular instance, ornaments
and lights were brought in by several
of the children. so that the decorations
themselves were commercial. The origi-
nal plan had been to have students makc
all the ornaments, using old Christmas
cards, metal foil, and colored paper,
such as those made in most schoolrooms
every holiday season, and to use pop-
corn dyed in water color paints.

To this cotton Christmas tree there
was an all-out school reaction; pupils
from all grades came to stand and mar-
vel, and returned to hring their parents.
Thus a group of children who do not
often have the chance to feel pridc in
their accomplishment was gratified and
made happy by the responses of the
other students.

The December l’.T.A. meeting was
quite aroused by the enthusiasm for the
cotton Christmas tree, evinced in remi-
niscenccs of parents about the times in
the old country school when they
scoured the thickets to bring in and
decorate dead barherry bushes and bits

 

of hedges, in lieu of Christmas greens.
Exciting questions were asked as plans
were made by teachers to try it next
year, and as parents offered to help.

The teacher who had started it all was
able then to describe to parents her
original plan of creating a lovely tree
totally without expensc. in this particu-
lar community many parents present at
that meeting had not becn looking for-
ward with any degree of certainty, until
that moment, of having a Christmas
tree for their families. They listencd
with serious interest while thc process
of dipping and dyeing was described,
and moved to the kitchen to watch with
interest as an impromptu demonstration
was held.

Not only. for the far off somcday
when a child of today may be rigging
such a trce for his own children who
might not otherwisc havc one, but for
the adults thcmselvcs, who were present
in that room, one teacher brought good
and happiness. She may feel justly
proud.

Today more than ever, in any com-
munity and working with any group of
students. we may wcll stress thcse pcr-
manent valucs and help our children to
see and know thcm? What bctter way is
there than by teaching childrcn to find
joy in using, creatively and without un-
due expense, the materials they have at
hand. “in their own back yards”?

1

Reprinted with permission from Caiifomia
Parent-Teacher, December 1953.

Moke your Christmas safe and fire free
by iireproofing any ini‘lomobie decoro-
tions or costumes used. If you con’t get

one of the commercial products on the
morket, make your own solution of
four ports boric ocid, nine ports borax,
and thirty-two ports woter. -

 

597

 

It’s really amazing what you can do
decoration-wise with a few old wire
coat hangers, some odds and ends, and
a little imagination. A few suggestions
are given here—but the variety of dif-
ferent decorative pieces that can be
worked out is virtually unlimited. Try
it for an interesting project with your
craft groups or decorating committees.
Many of the ideas are so easy that six-
year-old youngsters can make them.

Materials needed to make the basic
forms, along with the wire coat hang-
ers, are pliers and fine wire, self-stitch
tape or string. The hanger wires can be
covered with greens, tinsel garlands,
gilt or glitter. As a finishing touch they
can be trimmed with Christmas tree
ornaments, sequins, beads, cellophane
drinking straws, foil and other decora-
tive papers and seals, and so on. Pieces
of chicken wire, wire screen, or net may
also be used to advantage for some of
the designs. Cut these materials to fit
the hanger-wire pattern and sew or wire
them to the frame.

The t0p four illustrations show some
of the forms. that can be worked out
merely by wiring or tying two or more
hangers together.

Try the first one, the diamond shape.
Cover the wires with Christmas greens.
Tie a big red bow to the center wires,
and hang a small ornament from each of
the hooks at the“ sides. 0r paste cut-
out paper figures in the center instead
of the greens and bows.

With the second one you can make a
star-child by hanging a round tree orna-
ment in the top of the form for the head,
wrapping the rest of the figure with a
tinsel garland, hanging a cluster of foil
_ or metal stars from each of the “hands,”
and adding sequin or glitter features to
the ornament for the face. See how
simple it is!

The next one, using four hangers, be-
comes a hanging lantern if you roll a
piece of construction paper into a tube

598

around the center wires for the candle,
and add a flame cut from cellophane or
foil paper.

The fourth one makes a turning car-
rousel when suspended from the ceil-
ing on a long wire or string. Try fin-
ishing off the end of each hook with a
glittery star and hanging an angel figure
from each arm of it. Or use any other
Christmas figures—small toys from the
five-and-ten, bells that jingle or shiny
ornaments that sparkle as the carrousel
spins. Three or four hangers can be
joined in the same manner, instead of
two as illustrated, to make more elabor-
ate carrousels.

The" next four illustrations show
forms made by bending the hangers in
various ways. For these you need light-
weight wire hangers and a long-nose
pliers for the bending. The forms shown
are a star, a block letter A (any block
letters can be worked out), and two
trees. Fill in the star form by weaving
with strips of colored paper, ribbon, or
yarn; or decorate just the frame with
greens, yarn, ribbon, or paint.

For'a Christmas greeting to hang in
the windows or across a wall or stage,
shape each letter from one hanger, leav-
ing the books at the top for hanging.
Trace the outline of the letter on paper,
place cellophane straws crosswise over
the outline and cut them to fit so they
fill in the whole center of the letter.
Using a piece of wire slightly longer
than the longest piece of straw for a
needle, and yarn or gilt thread, string
the straw pieces crosswise into the
frame. (0r cut the letters from decora-
tive paper or cardboard and clip them
to gilded hangers as illustrated in title.

Bend the trec forms as shown, paint
them, and hang ornaments on them.

The bottom decoration is a mobile
tree made of several hangers which may
be bent either as shown or into the form
of an arch. Suspend it where it can move
freely; trim with ornaments and bells.

 

 

RECREATION

 

Developing Skills

for the Retarded Child

M any recreation departments are conducting, or planning
to conduct activities [or mentally retarded groups. The fol-
lowing article is Chapter II of an excellent booklet, The

Backward Child,“ produced by the Information Services Di-
vision, Department of National Health and Welfare, Ottawa,
Canada, and is used by kind permission of that department.

 

Among the early things that children
learn are sensory impressions—about
color, size, shape, and feel of various
things. They learn also to develop mus-
cle skills so that they can do and handle
things without being clumsy. This is
often particularly important for the re-
tarded child. The following materials
are helpful in these kinds of learning:

Large, soft ball; brightly colored bean
bags; blocks of wood of different sizes and
colors; colored wooden beads; colored laces;
peg boards and colored pegs; small boxes;
heavy string; old spools, preferably painted;
plain paper; colored construction paper; old
catalogs, magazines and greeting cards; blunt
scissors; large crayons; large pencils; paste
and paste brush; odds and ends of colored
wood and cloth; carbon paper; paper drink-
ing straws; coloring and cut-out books; very
simple jig-saw puzzles; bubble pipe; tapestry
needles (blunt point, large eyes); sewing
cards; paper punch; plasticine or clay;
scraps of cloth; lentils, squash or melon
seeds; finger painting outfit; weaving mats;
simple loom for weaving (an Inkle loom).

THE CHILD CAN LEARN:

1. Stringing—large spools on colored
shoe lace; colored wooden beads on
shoe lace; colored one-inch paper
squares with center hole; alternate
wooden beads and paper squares; alter-
nate pieces of paper straws and colored
paper circles or squares (these are
bracelets, necklaces, or decorations) ;
and small beads.

2. Color—sorting a pile of small pieces
of cloth and placing the pieces on larger

' Copies of this sixty-page illustrated pub-
lication are available from the Queen’s Print-
er, Ottawa, Canada, for twenty-five cents each,
with a twenty-five per cent discount on orders
of one hundred or more.

I DECEMBER 1954

squares of the same color, red, green,
yellow, blue; selecting red, green, yel-
low, and blue socks or beads; naming
colors of beads, blocks, and so on; dis-
tinctions between colors shown (mount
samples side by side, yellow and orange;
pink and red, and so on) ; coloring sim-
ple pictures; decorating paper plates
with crayons; finger painting.

3. Form Distinction— squares, circles,
half circles, triangles; matching one
form with another (“Show me one like
this”) ; learning the name of the form;
selecting the proper form when it is
named (“Show me a circle”) ; naming
(“Tell me the name of this”) ; learning
the meaning of _big, little, long, short,
up, down (taught by showing him).

4. Perception of Objects—w(present only
two or three objects at a time) point at
each object and name it at the same
time, have the child do the same; re-
arrange the objects and repeat; place
the ob ects in a colored bag, let the child
put his hand in the bag, touch the object
and name it before bringing it out; hide
one of three objects previously placed
before the child, lie must name which
one is gone.

5. Putting Blocks in a Box.

6. Throwing Large Ball or Bean Bags
into a Box or to a Person.

7. Building with Blocks ——- piling; sort-

ing; making a train, house, and so on.

8. Blowing Bubbles.

9. Buttoning a Small Garment Which is
Pinned Down.

10. Lacing a Shoe.

11. Cutting—learning to handle scis-
sors not following any lines or pattern

 

(this takes time); following a broad,
straight line on paper; following a
broad, curved line on paper; cutting out
simple objects perhaps previously col-
ored, an apple, ball, and so on, and
pictures and figures from magazines
and catalogs... (NOTE: Do not give thc
child scissors unless you can be with
him while he is using them. Scissors
with short blades and rounded tips are
best.)

12. Pasting—using one finger to spread
paste, a little at a time, wiping fingers
before handling picture; using wide
paste brush; making paper chain from
paper strips pasted togcther; making a
design from colored squares and cir-
cles pasted on another larger colored
square; simple papier-mitché objects;
making interesting scrap books.
13.Sewing-——begin with shoelace and
cardboard sewing card and teach the
child to “sew” in and out of the holes;
with tapestry needle and wool sew on
card as above; with tapestry necdle and
wool follow an outline; practice run-
ning stitch on a guiding line on a picce
of cloth; running stitch, but no guiding
line; making a seam; making a simple
doll’s dress; sewing large buttons on
bright material; simple embroidery
stitches; cross stitch, needlepoint, and
so on.

14. Knitting-—-plain knitting, garter
stitch; purling; ribbing; casting on,
casting off, increasing, decreasing; sim-
ple knitted article, scarf, sweater, and
so on; knitting on four needles; knit-
ting socks; introduce simple patterns.
15. Weaving—paper mats; doll’s tam
(on Shute loom) ; belts and so on (on

599

Inkle loom).

16. Drawing — outlining simple draw-
ings and designs with colored lentils,
squash or melon seeds, or colored pegs
(place drawings, which should be large,
flat on the table and have the child over-
lay the design) ; making freehand lines,
circles, squares, and so on, with a large
pencil or crayon; sketching with large
strokes simple objects such as a box, ap-
ple, ball; people and animals; very sim-
ple scenes; illustrating nursery rhymes
or children’s stories, “Jack-he-Nimble”
or The Three Bears.

Hi Jinks!

Patty Steere

0 Take three hundred and fifty high

school girls, hours of practice and prep-
aration, a hard-working stage crew', an
over-capacity audience, costumes and
dances; put-them all together and you
have the Girls’ League Hi,Jinx, an an-
nual all-girl affair at Whittier High
School, in Whittier, California.

For the past twenty-six years, the
high-school girls in this community
have combined talents to present this
show which has grown from an amateur
fun-night to ten student skits featuring
over two hundred and fifty girls in com-
plicated chorus line routines.

The first Hi Jinx, held on February
10, 1928, was an informal and hilarious
affair consisting of skits which were
presented by members of all classes,
graduates, and faculty. A carnival was
held in the new girls’ gymnasium, after
which the girls and their mothers ad-
journed to the auditorium where the
performance was presented. The origi-
nal production proved to be such 21 suc-
cess that it continued as a tradition.

Each year a theme is chosen around
which to weave the threads of gaiety
and nonsense. Some of them have heen
“Circus,” “Through the Looking Glass,”
“Road to Oz,” “Up in the Attic,” “Story

MISS STEERE has served on various Hi
Jinx committees. She wrote this articIe
whife she was a member of the pabfic
relations cfass at Whittier High Schoof.

600

17. Paper Faking —— making triangles;
making hats, haskets, envelopes, pin-
wheels, flowers.

18. Rhythm, Music and Games—march-
ing to music; clapping softly to music;
rocking a doll to music, swaying in
rhythm; hopping, to imitate birds; out-
stretched arms to “fly” like a bird; ring-
ing ,tiny sleigh bells to music; simple
physical exercises; tag, musical chairs,
and singing games; humming softly;
singing simple two- or four-line chil-
dren’s songs, preferably with actions;
occasional “popular” songs; folk danc-

Book Ball,” and “Aladdin’s Lamp.”

Countless hours of planning and
preparation are required. The Girls’
League’s first vice-president acts as stu-
dent director, assuming the duties of or-
ganizing and leading the show. She
works hand in hand with the faculty di-
rector to see that the production runs
smoothly. However, all the responsibil-
ity does not rest on the shoulders of the
student and faculty directors. Foui'teen
members of the Girls’ League Board and
scores of students and teachers com-
bine efforts to make the production a
success.

One of the keynotes of the Hi Jinx is
the rigid competitive basis on which
the top groups are selected for the final
performance. Tryouts are held each
year to determine which groups will re-
ceive one of the coveted spots on the
program. Even in the early summer
months, girls meet to lay the ground-
work for the coming show. Groups,
ranging from ten to thirty girls, begin
selecting music and planning the chore-
ography of their dances. A faculty di-
rector is on hand to assist each group.
In October the theme is officially an-
nounced, and the girls buckle down to
continuous rehearsals, costume making.
and plans to win the highly-sought first
prize.

By November \Vhittier High School
is transformed into a bedlam of dress
rehearsals and last-minute committee
meetings. Fingernails are reduced to a
minimum. Then, the long awaited day
arrives, all commotion ceases, and a
quiet but tense atmOSphere settles over

ing, modern dancing. (Some children
have been able to learn the names and
positions of the notes on the piano by a
play-and-story method.)

19. Modding—rolling and pulling clay
or plasticine; fashioning simple clay oh-
jects such as a ball, pail, eggs, nest;
fashioning more difficult objects; using
commercial modeling clay that hardens
to make attractive jewelry, flowers.

20. Crafts—many of the less retarded
girls and boys would be interested in at-
tempting some of the many crafts that
are so popular today.

 

the campus. Suddenly, lights! action!
The Hi Jinx extravaganza is ready to
roll!

Although it is primarily a student af-
fair, the faculty, mothers, and alumnae
also have a chance to get into the act.
As the show comes to a close, the ten-
sion increases as audience and partici-
pants eagerly await the awarding of the
prizes by a panel of five judges. Thc
lucky winners are the recipients of a
gaily decorated cake and prize winning
ribbons attached to all-day suckers.

According to tradition, admission to
the Hi Jinx has always been free. Two
years ago this practice was changed and
a twenty-five cent charge was instituted.
The money tllus received. approximate-
ly $500, was then awarded to an out-
standing senior girl to be used as a
scholarship to the college of her choice.

Since the Hi Jinx is a strictly femi-
nine affair, presented only for the girls
and mothers, the boys at Whittier High
have one ambition—to see the show. In
order to get past the faculty guards sta-
tioned at the door, they often resort to
intricate tactics. The recent campus he-
ro is the boy who had to buy six tickets
and change his disguise several times
before he finally managed to see the en-
tire show.

The Hi Jinx has grown by leaps and
bounds since it made its original debut
on the Whittier High School stage.
Faces have changed; new dancing tech-
niques have been introduced; but the
Girls” League Hi Jinx remains an event
to be anticipated and long-remembered
by both performers and audience.

RECREATION

How To Do H o” b

M ewe

     

 

A CHRlSTMAS ANGEL

Equipmenl" needed «-

Medium sleel wool and a pair of large
scissors or small fin snips.

 
  
 
  
   
  

75 ma/re f/ve (Inge/-
FIRST

VEThis

dkdanceis

"'3" dl'amel'er
'l‘in can bo’d‘om.

Cuf on so/x'a’ //'nes

512d weal
culedqes.

THIRD

 

 

    
   

 

_ Cuf w/ I 7/5. F

C u/’ bo/fom 5% r 195% edge

601
DECEMBER 1954

Christmas Cards from scrap materials

Collect many of the everyday scrap materials found in and around the average home or recreation
center and you have the makings of these cards. Include bits of felt left over from craft projects or cut
from old felt hats; burlap, huck toweling, terry cloth, and other kinds of cloth with interesting texture;
small pieces of lace, ribbon, embroidery thread, and yarn; foil paper from food and cigarette packages;
paper lace from doilies or candy box trimmings; illustrations and verses cut from magazines and old
greeting cards; and anything in the way of sequins, beads, decorative seals, and so on. You’ll also need
plain stationery, typing or construction paper (or even shelf, wall, or wrapping paper will do) for the
basic card form; paste or household cement; scissors; needles; and lettering materials such as pen and
ink, crayons, or paint and a fine brush—and you’re prepared to concoct some novel Christmas cards.

 

The string of stars on the inside of
this card hangs free from the center-
fold when the card is opened, for only
the ends of the ribbons are attached to
the card. The stars are cut from foil
paper and pasted to the ribbon. The
tiny angel in the corner is cut from an
old card——-but she could be hand paint-
ed. For variation: use sequin stars
dangling from a chain of braided yarn;
or cutout letters of a greeting.

 

G
R
E
E
T
N
G
S

This Christmas angel has a skirt of
silver-foil paper cut in a triangle and
pleated; wings are made from a lace
paper doily, net, or a piece of real lace;
head is cut from construction paper and
colored or a head clipped from a colored
magazine illustration may be used; halo
and stars are cut from gold-foil paper.
For variation: try a skirt of filmy net
material trimmed with sequin stars.

602

W l '3' ' l "
s3 l l l ll/g
“*- ..'_.
._ ‘ I"' ..___
7:6 L3 ‘—
E /’|\\ 
""— '¥*’/4\ '3'" ' " :
—-..._  i:—
= *// k3 \ I
g' / /|\~.\\ :—
: />k’7l\* w- ‘
ET..— / / \x ' ‘ *-
""‘ /.*:/: \‘éé “ ,I
1"...“ / /p.\ x 5‘ H'"
= /)II{ I * l\i
/ \ s \u

- // \ I‘-
= ‘_______l\ LJ “'
-—-—- \\ I [~- _
_____ \___l _ -—-I

5/ m H I

Needlework card features a tree de-
sign and greetings sewed in basting
stitches with metalic yarn on dark col-
ored burlap; ornaments of tiny beads
and colored silk floss. Edges of burlap
are fringed and the completed piece is
pasted on stiff paper. For variation:
weave a modernistic tree design on huck
toweling with embroidery thread; cross
stitch a tree on burlap with yarn.

 

Santa is gay and colorful in his suit
and hat of red felt, green felt mittens,
and cotton whiskers and suit trim. His
face is pink construction paper with
painted eyes. For variation: use a
powder puff for his face; or make a
glistening Santa by cutting the pieces
from oil cloth and using angel hair for
his suit trim and whiskers.

 

A standing Christmas tree comes into
view when this card is Opened. There
are two trees cut from two shades of
green paper and folded through the cen-
ter. The darker one is pasted complete-
ly on the card, the other one is pasted
or sewed only along the fold on top of
the first tree. Both trees are decorated
with tiny ornaments of foil paper or
sequins. For variation: add more trees
to the fold; use different color for the
trees———such as shades of blue or red.

 

A real tree leaf, pressed flat and then
glued in place, is the main part of the
decorations for this card. Base is cork
from a bottlecap lining; ornaments are
hollyhock, milkweed, and other small
seeds; foil stars add a shiny touch. For
variation: a lacy fern leaf for the tree,
with little dabs or boric acid crystals or
artificial snow glued on for trimming;
a flattened sprig of evergreen trimmed
with tiny colored beads or seed pearls.

RECREATION

 

FOR LOW-COST FIELD SEATING

NEW I’IIIIII UNIVERSITY

SCHOOL OF EDUCATION

Leadership Training in
Recreation and Camping Education

Courses lead to the B.S., M.A., Ph.D. and Ed.D.

degrees in public and private agencies. A spe-
cial workshop in Recreation Leadership Tech-
niques and Program Evaluation will be held
from January 3 - January 28, 1955.

r. 

AMERICAN-UNIVERSAL "PORTABLE" BLEACHER

A COMPLETE “PACKAGE-UNIT”

Nething else to buy. Ruggedly built of prefabricated,
welded-Steel panels-safety engineered-weather proofed
for minimum maintenance. You need no expensive
foundations, can easily inStall this American-Universal
skid-mounted Bleacher with unskilled help. A complete
package-unit—-at lowest possible cost.

 

Write for information to

DB. MILTON A. GABRIELSEN
School of Education
New York University

Washington Square
New York 3, New York

Basic 5-row unit seats 50. Unlimited combina-
tians for up to 10 end lS-raw installations.

CHANGE OF ADDRESS

Write for new catalog

UNIVERSAL MANUFACTURING CORP.
ZELIENOPLE ‘IO, PENNSYLVANIA

If you are planning to move, notify us at least thirty
days before the date of the issue with which it is to take
effect, if possible, in order to receive your magazines
without interruption. Send both your old and new ad-

dresses by letter, card or post office form 225 to:

DECEMBER 1954

SUBSCRIPTION DEPARTMENT
RECREATION MAGAZINE
8 WEST EIGHTH STREET
NEW YORK 11, N. Y.

The post oflice will not forward c0pies unless you pro-
vide extra postagc. Duplicate copies. cannot be sent.

 

7766mm .t x:

All manuscripts submitted for publication in

RECREATION should be double-spaced, have
good margins, and should be a first copy not
a carbon!

 

STATEMENT OF OWNERSHIP

STATEMENT REQUIRED BY THE ACT OF AUGUST 24,
1912, AS AMENDED BY THE ACTS OF MARCH 3, 1933,
AND JULY 2, 194-6 (Title 39, United States Code, Section
233) SHOWING THE OWNERSHIP, MANAGEMENT,
AND CIRCULATION OF RECREATION, published monthly
except July and August at New York, N. Y., for October 1,
1954.

1. The names and addresses of the publisher, editor, managing
editor, and business manager are:

Publisher: National Recreation Association, 315 Fourth Ave:

nue, New York 10, N. Y.

Editor-in-Chief : Joseph Prendergast, 315 Fourth Avenue, New
York 10, N. Y.

N Editor: Dorothy Donaldson, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York 10,

. Y.

Business Manager: Alfred H. Wilson, 315 Fourth Avenue, New
York 10, N. Y.

2. The owner is: (If owned by a corporation, its name and ad-
dress must be stated and also immediately thereunder the names
and addresses of stockholders owning or holding l per cent or
more more of total amount of stock. If not owned by a corpora-
tion, the names and addresses of the individual owners must be
given. If owned by a partnership or other unincorporated firm,
its name and address, as well as that of each individual member,
must be given.)

National Recreation Association, Inc., 315 Fourth Avenue,
New York 10, N. Y., a non-profit organization. The ofiicers are:
Otto T. MaIIery, Chairman of the Board; Paul Moore, Jr., First
Vice-President; Susan M. Lee, Second Vice-President and Sec-
retary of the Board; Gaylord DonneIIey, Third Vice-President;

Adrian M. Massie, Treasurer; Gustavus T. Kirby, Treasurer
Emeritus; Joseph Prendergast, Secretary. (Addresses care of
National Recreation Association, as above.)

3. The known bondholders, mortgagees, and other security
holders owning or holding I per cent or more of total amount of
bonds, mortgages, or other securities are: (If there are none, so
state.)

None (nonprofit organization.)

4. Paragraphs 2 and 3 include, in cases where the stockholder
or security holder appears upon the books of the company as
trustee or in any other fiduciary relation, the name of the per-
sons or corporation for whom such trustee is acting: also the
statements in the two paragraphs show the alliant’s full knowl-
edge and belief as to the circumstances and conditions under
which stockholders and security holders who do not appear upon
the books of the company as trustees, hold stock and securities
in a capacity other than that of a bona fide owner.

5. The average number of copies of each issue of this publi-
cation sold or distributed through the mails or otherwise, to
paid subscribers during the 12 months preceding the date shown
above was: (This information is required daily, weekly, semi-
weekly, and triweekly newspapers only.)

Alfred H. Wilson, Business Manager
Sworn to and subscribed before me this lst day of September,

1954
Emily H. Stark, Notary Public, State of New York. No.

413813275.
Qualified in Queens County. Certificate filed with Queens
County Clerk and Register. Term eXpires March 30, 1955.

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 603

l.
P E B s o N N E L

 

SOME PERSONNEL TRENDS AT ST. LOUIS—AN IMPRESSION

From above the din of meetings and
gabfests at the recent National Recrea-
tion Congress in St. Louis, I seemed to
hear strange and exciting overtones-—
sounds that reminded me of the adoles-
cent boy whose voice is beginning to
crack and change. It dawned on me
that the recreation movement has de-
veloped other characteristics and sign-
posts of adolescence: it is big and awk-
ward, somewhat confused and bewil-
dered, but eager to assume grown-up
attitudes and practices.

The “growing-up” sounds I heard
were coming from a cross section of del-
egates who were talking more than ever
before:

About the philosophy of “why” rath-
er than the mechanics of “how.”

About long range, master plans in-
stead of daily schedules and isolated ac-
tivities.

About coordination of community
groups instead of competitive relation-
ships.

About enduring organizational struc-
tures and tax budgets—not “will-o’-the-
wisp” operations based upon personali-
ties or sentimental claims.

About public relations as a whole as
Opposed to more publicity.

About quality programs and not so
much about “numbers.”

And about sound, business-like ad-
ministration and supervision rather
than amateur, hit-and-miss schemes of
promotion and management.

RAYMOND T .'FORSBERG, chairman of the
.-Vational Recreation Association’s Sub-
committee on In-Service Training is
the superintendent of recreation in the
city of Waterloo, Iowa.

004

Other delegates were talking about:

Sabbatical leave programs to encour-
age leaders to enrich their professional
careers.

District-wide and state-wide training
courses for administrators, designed to
give support to the fact that a commu-
nity recreation program cannot pro-
gress beyond the philosophy, vision,
flexibility, and initiative of the person
in charge.

Continuous, year-round in-servicc
training programs scheduled as part of
the regular work week with emphasis
upon basic sociological and psychologi-
cal factors, and so on, as well as upon
program plans and activity techniques.

Audio-visual materials that have
“oomph” for both leadership training
and program promotion.

Job descriptions and performance
standards that make for much needed
objectivity in personnel management.

Recruitment techniques that will tend
to encourage better students to enter
our college training programs.

Research projects that will help to
crystallize where we are and where we
are going.

And nation-wide salary studies that
can scrve as a rallying point to heighten
our stature as professional workers.

There were a few rumblings about the
“theoretical, ivory tower” approach of
college training programs for recrea-
tion leadership. Granted, there are
shortcomings, but solution to the prob-
lems is not reserved for collegc educa-
tors alone. Not to be overlookcd is the
“art” of assimilating and motivating the
newly trained leadership at operating
level. Could it be that some of the per-
sonnel turnover is the direct result of
questionable selection and assignment,

Raymond T. Forsberg

or the frustrations that result from in-
adequate counsel and guidance? Know-
ing that leadership begins to blossom
with actual experience, are we eXpecting
colleges to perform training functions
that are beyond their sphere?

A report of personnel trends observed
at St. Louis would not be complete with-
out a big huzza.’ for the significant for-
ward strides of the American Recrea-
tion Society. leaders
throughout the country are indebted to
the ARS leadership for the magnificent

manner in which they are plowing and

Recreation

seeding ground for the future of our
profession. '

The broad personnel program of the
National Recreation Association’s Na-
tional Advisory Committee on Recruit-
ment, Training, and Placement is con-
vincing evidence of the trend toward
greater participation in professional
matters on the part of individual lead-
ers. This committee of over one hun-
dred members has a wide geographical
coverage with representation from thir-
ty-four states, the District of Columbia,
and five national agencies. It planned
the major personnel sessions at the con-
gress and has completed important pro-
jects. Numerous other projects of im-
portance to the recreation profession
are under way or are in the planning
stage. The five major subdivisions of
the committee will continue to deal with
problems and programs of recruitment,
training and placement.

I’m confident I wasn’t “just hearing”
things at St. Louis. The 1954 Congress,
on the surface, was hardly different
from other years, but obviously there
was a stronger underlying current of
resolve, faith, and pride in our role in

the community.

RECREATION

 

RECENT APPOINTMENTS

.lessie Cameron, health education pro-
gram director, Washington Street
'Brauch, YM-YWCA, Newark, New Jer-
sey; Barbara Carr, recreation worker,
Gawonus Housing Project, Brooklyn,
New York; Frank H. Dearborn, super-
intendent of recreation, F airport, New
York; Mrs. Barbara Edler, executive
director, Girl Scouts, Council Bluffs,

REMINDER . . .

America?! gineét
i” Athletic equipment

Iowa; Leigh Emmons, recreation di- '5 BUILT BY
rector, Janet Memorial Children’s ([9
Home, Elizabeth, New Jersey; William FOR CATALOG WRITE: 7‘99 W66

L. Foley, superintendent of recreation,
Croton-on-Hudson, New York; Edgar

Krattli, special group worker, Grosse

W. .I. Voit Rubber Corp.
2945 East 12th Street

Los Angeles 11, Calif. New York 11, Chicago 10, los Angeles 11

Point Community Club, Grosse Point,
Michigan; Edward McCardle, director,

Youth Center, Dolgeville, New York;
Harry K. Ness, director, Community
Center, Mystic, Connecticut; Darrell
Robinson, .lr., area supervisor of recrea-
ation, Prince Georges County, Mary-
land; Alphonse Tindall, Soho Commu-
nity House, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

Charles S. Bayer, youth director, Rec-
reation Commission, Peekskill, New
York; Priscilla Brown, recreation lead-
er, University Hospital, New York City;
Joan Burroughs, girls’ worker, Dixwell
House, New Haven, Connecticut;
Thomas R. Carlson, superintendent of
recreation, Middletown, Ohio; Charles
T. Carter, recreation Worker, Irvington
House, Irvington-on-Hudson, New
York.

Berenice Feinstein, arts and crafts in-
structor, Brooklyn War Memorial Cen-
tcr, New York City; Donald Forman,
group worker, Police Athletic League,
New York City; Roy Cunderson, su-
perintendent of recreation, Puyallup,
Washington; Ruth L. Klein, recreation
director, Hollywood Beach Hotel, Hol-
lywood-by-Sea, Florida ; Jesse M.
Lamm, recreation leader, Goldwater
Hospital, New York City; Esther M is-
ell, assistant director, U. S. 0. Club,
Trenton, New Jersey; Betty Ann Myers,
girls’ worker, Progressive Recreation 81
Social Services Association, Scranton,
Pennsylvania; Eugene H. Pautz, physi-
cal director, Youth Foundation, Keno-
sha, Wisconsin; Mary E. Sawyer, rec-
reation leader, Girls’ Club, Waterbury,
Connecticut; Jean Scheidel, recreation
specialist, recreation department, Pasa-

dena, California; Chandler Sharp, di-

rector youth center, Salvation Army,
Syracuse, New York; Ann Smutny, rec-

0,” press on or about January 15, 1955
ORDER YOUR COPY NOW AND SAVE!

RECREATIHN AS A PHBFESSION
IN THE SOUTIIERN REGIBN

A Report of the Joint Study by the National Recreation Association and the
Southern Regional Education Board

Special pro-publication offer on orders received before

January 15, 1955—S3.00 per copy
Price after January 15 will be $3.75

This l60-page book analyzes the full-time recreation leader and his employment in I“

' community recreation departments ' voluntary youth-serving agencies

' hospitals and correctional institutions ' professional education for the field
' churches ' camps ' industry ' defense agencies

' state, regional, and national agencies giving special services in recreation

This volume will be valuable to recreation leaders, board members and interested lay-
men, governmental officials, legislators and planners, college students and teachers, guid-
ance counselors . . . . It is a permanent reference work.

It reviews the present status as well as the history of recreation leadership in the
region, and forecasts a growth which will require two and one-half times as many full-
time recreation leaders as now are employed.

Every recreation leader will be interested in the major findings concerning needs for
recruitment and for undergraduate and graduate professional education. In these, as
in its reporting of professional status and prospects, the book will be valuable for use
in any section of the country. The suggested program for regional action to meet the
needs revealed by the study points the way for development of an expanding profession.

Mail this coupon today!

---—_--—-—--—_--———-————-——

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
8 West Eighth Street
New York 11, New York

Send. .‘. .copies of Recreation as a Profession in the Southern Region
at the special pre-publication price of $3.00 per copy to:

FEE-PUBLICATION
ORDER

p

 

reation leader, Cumberland Hosnital, Name . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
BmOklyna New York; Pa“! Um": direc' Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
tor, pilot project, recreation depart-
ment. Kansas City, Missouri. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. I
W A N T E D : . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I
ReF"'°“""°'i"° f°r “wing M°""f°"”"°' Enclosed: S . . . . . . . . (remittance or purchase order) |

of Sporting Goods. Port or full time work.

Box R454 RECREATiON MAGAZlNE
8 West Eighth Street, New York 11, N. Y.

 

DECEMBER 1954

FEE-PUBLICATION OFFER EXPIRES JANUARY-15, 1955

L _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _....l
605

IRA/121133333“? NEW§

 

O A new model radial-arm, multi-pur-
pose woodworking machine, designated

the GWI, has been included in the De
Walt line of power-shop equipment.

 

Completely re-designed and modernized
to include the latest engineering devel-
0pments, the GWI offers many distinct
advantages not previously available in
this type machinery. New features in-
clude a motor provided with a voltage-
change-switch to enable it to be oper-
ated on either 115 or 230 volt, single-
phase current; a longer radial arm and
wider worktable, providing greater cut-
ting capacity and easier handling of ma-
terials; multi-color “Plextone” finish,
red plastic control handles for safe, ef-
ficient locating and adjusting of mov-
ing parts; a safety-lock switch which
functions on the ignition key principle
and allows immobilization of the ma-
chine; and built-in carrying handles for
easy portability. A c0py of the attrac-
tive new “Power Shop Catalog” is avail-
able upon request from De Walt, Inc.,
Dept. R-lO, Lancaster, Pennsylvania.

0 Five new educational kits are being
distributed by Central Scientific Com-
pany, Chicago, under an agreement
with Industrial America, Inc., coordin-
ators of the hobby kit program.

Each of the kits is prepared by a lead-
ing industrial firm in collaboration with
the Museum of Science and Industry
and EncyclOpaedia Britannica. The kits
and their producers are: Electronics Kit
made by RCA; Optical Kit produced by
the American Optical Society; Rock

606

Detective Kit manufactured by the Gem-
ological Institute of America; Weather
Kit put together by the Taylor Instru-
ment Companies; and the Medical
Training Kit, which enables youngsters
to analyze the functioning of the human
body, by Bauer and Black.

Youngsters can learn the hows and
whys of each science by building their
own scientific instruments from mate-
rials contained in the kits. Each kit is
also equipped with a comprehensive in-
struction booklet, prepared under the
direction of the Encyc10paedia Britan-
nica, explaining and illustrating in de-
tail the fundamentals of the science for
which the kit was prepared and giving
step-by-step directions for the numerous
experiments that can be performed.‘ For
further information and descriptive lit-
erature write to Central Scientific Com-

pany, 1700 Irving Park Road, Chicago.

9 The nursery set will spend many joy-
ous hours on the Wonder Horse Deluxe,

 

a junior equestrian’s delight, with its
unique spring action which provides all
the excitement of trotting, ga110ping, and
jumping motions in response to its rid-
er. It measures thirty-two inches high
and thirty-six inches long, is sturdily
constructed and mounted on a hard-
wood base, and is finished in true palo-
mino color. Toy Guidance Council se-
lected this as “an outstanding example
of American toy production for 1954.”
Manufactured by Wonder Products Co.,

Collierville, Tennessee.

9 A compact, space-saving, rubber-
stamp outfit, which eliminates the neces-

When writing to these manufacturers please mention RECREATION.

sity for having a separate complete
stamp for each use, is now available.
The Edmar “Injector” Stamp consists
of one handle which can be used with
any of the slides, which are available

 

in more than two thousand stock rub-
ber-stamp phrases. The handle, assorted
slides, ink, and stamp pad are all kept
neatly and take up minimum space in
one handy kit. For information, Edmar
Division, Bankers 31 Merchants, Inc.,

Dept. ED, 3229 North Sheffield Avenue,
Chicago 13, Illinois.

0 A new contribution in table design
is featured in the Romper Table #2335
which makes possible a different group-
ing of combinations for various activi-
ties. The table surface has been special-
ly developed for uniform low-light re-
Hectivity, and is stainproof and immune
to acids, ink, and paint. It can be
cleaned with a damp cloth and never
needs painting or refinishing.

Shown with the table is National’s
Chair #2610, constructed of electroni-
cally laminated bent plywood. It has
been thoroughly tested under the most
rigorous institutional use and carries a
five-year guarantee. Manufactured by

 

the National School Furniture Com-
pany, a division of the National Store
Fixture Company, Inc., Odenton, Mary-
land.

RECREATION

Listening and Viewing

Films

0 City dwellers in America have the
power to determine whether their own
communities must endure run-down,
blighted neighborhoods or will renew
or rebuild them, according to a new
documentary film recently released by
Encyclopaedia Britannica Films and
the Twentieth Century Fund. The film
is based on a special study made for the
Fund by Miles L. Colean, nationally
known authority on housing and city
planning. The 24-minute, 161nm. film
will be distributed by Encyclopaedia
Britannica Films, 202 East 44th Street,
New York 17.

o A new film illustrating some tech-
niques of occupational, recreational,
and industrial therapy, Working and
Playing to Health (35 minutes, 16mm.,
black and white, sound), was made at
the Manteno State Hospital, Manteno,
Illinois, sponsored by the Illinois De-
partment of Public Works. Write Inter-
national Film Bureau, lnc., 57 East
Jackson Boulevard, Chicago 4, or your
local mental health authority.

0 A valuable addition to film material
on senior citizens is a short documen-
tary of an annual Hobby Show for Old-
er Persons (10 minutes, 16mm., sound,
color). Write Helen Warner, Welfare
and Health Council,44 East 23rd Street,
New York 10.

0 Newest additions to the Films of the
Nations library include shorts on crea-
tive activities in Swedish schools, arts
and handicrafts in Denmark and Portu-
gal, as well as recreation in the state of
Michigan. For further information and

1955 catalog write Films of the Nations
Distributors, lnc., 62 West 45th Street,
New York 36.

0 Association Films offers free films on
a variety of subjects including travel.
sport, homemaking, health and safety,
do-it-yourself, science, and industry.
For new catalog write branch libraries
of Association Films at Broad and Elm
Streets, Ridgefield, New Jersey; 79 East
Adams Street, Chicago; 1108 Jackson
Street, Dallas, Texas; and 351 Turk

Street, San Francisco.

0 Three five-minute films encourage
viewers to participate in creative activ-
ity in three media: crayon, torn paper,
and household cement. They were pro-

DECEMBER 1954

duced and directed by Frank Bach of
the Art Education Department, Univer-

sity of Wisconsin, and Reino Randall,
associate professor of art, Central
Washington College of Education, El-
lensburg, Washington. They are suit-
able for classroom art work, amateur art
classes, hobby groups, and teacher
training. Write Bailey Films, lnc., 6509
De Longpre Avenue, Hollywood 28, Cal-

ifornia.

o A booklet of available wildlife films,
The Conservation Film Library, has
been released by the National Wildlife
Federation, Service Division, 20 Spruce
Street, Boston.

0 Many new materials and ideas for the
holidays, as well as for general year-
round use have been added to the So-
ciety of Visual Education film library,
which includes an adventure-with-art-
materials series, prepared at the Labor-
atory School, University of Chicago,
under the direction of Jessie Todd. For
new free booklet write Society for Vis-

ual Education, 1345 West Diversey
Parkway, Chicago 14.

0 Five films on various phases of rec-
reational boating (131/2 minutes, 16-
mm., color) are available free from the
National Association of Engine and

Boat Manufacturers, 420 Lexington
Avenue, New York 17.

Uses of Tape Recorder

Over one hundred and fifty uses for
a tape recorder are outlined in a new
fourteen-page booklet, Words and Ma-
sic, showing how this instrument can be
used in business, church, school and
community activities. For free copy

write Webster Electric Co., 1900 Clark

Street, Racine, Wisconsin.

Recreation Department TV
Program

A fifteen minute TV program, inau-
gurated by the Boise City Recreation
Department and directed by Bob Clarke,
assistant director of the department, is
called “From the Slopes of Bogus
Basin.” During the winter months it
features events taking place in the local
ski area, the ski school, ski races, jump-
ing meets, adult ski classes and winter;
activities of the department. Time is
made available through station KBOl-
TV in Boise.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

FREE

MONTHLY PUBLICATION
ON

STAGE PRODUCTION,
COSTUMING, ETC. . . .

Van Horn and Son, Theatrical
and Historical costumers are
ofiering free subscriptions to
their new publication, Van
Horn’s Call Board. If you are
responsible For direction, pro-
duction, costuming of plays,
pageants, musical comedies or
operas, you will find this pub-
lication a valuable aid.

You'll want a
complete file of
The Call Board.
Mail Con 11
below molar.

 

For over 100 years Van Horn
and Son have been serving the
American Theatre. Their inven-
tory of costumes numbers over
60,000 and their Research and
Art Stafi is one of the finest
in the country. From this rich
background, plus their day-to-
day contact in costuming pro
ductions all over the coun
comes the material that will fill
the Call Board. “7e are sure that
it will give you enjoyment as
well as useful information. Use
the coupon below new to insure
receiving your copies, without
cost or obligation.

  

IHIAIIICAt (0530”!!!

  

811-13-15 ’Chestnut Street
Philadelphia 7, Pa.
Rollin W. Van Horn. President
Serving the American Theatre Since 1852

I VAN HORN a. son

I

I 8” Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa. :
l Please place my name on your mailing list to l

I receive The Call Board, without obligation. I
I] Name ........... ......s.................................................................. I

I Organization .......... w...................... m”... .. ....... l
I Street ............... .. ............... . .. ....................... ll
1 City ........................._ ........ .......-.. Stote ........................... |
I L ______________ ...._.J
607

Books & Pamphlets
Received

AMERICAN SCHOOL AND UNIVERSITY
(Vol. 26, 1954-55). American School
Publishing Corporation, 470 Fourth
Avenue, New York 16. Pp. 1076.
$5.00.

ANALYSIS OF TIIE ART OF CURLING, AN,
H. E. Weyman. P. O. Box 100, Lévis,
Quebec, Canada. Pp. 111. $1.25.

BASIC PRINCIPLES OF PARLIAMENTARY
LAW AND PROTOCOL, Marguerite
GrunIme, 3839 Humphrey Street, St.
Louis 16, Missouri. Pp. 66. $1.00.

BASKETBALL IN ACTION, Oscar Fraley.
A. A. Wyn, Inc., 23 West 47th Street,
New York 36. Pp. 94. $2.95.*

BETTER EMPLOYEE RELATIONS THROUGII
EMPLOYEE RECREATION. National In-
dustrial Recreation Association, 203

N. Wabash Avenue, Chicago 1. Un-
paged. Free.

BRIEF HISTORY OF PARKS AND RECREA-

TION IN THE UNITED STATES, A. The
Athletic Institute, 209 South State
Street, Chicago. Pp. 128. $1.50.“

BUBO—THE GREAT HORNED OWL, John
and Jean George. E. P. Dutton &

      

Company, Inc., 300 Fourth Avenue,

New York 10. Pp. 184. $3.00.”

CERAMICS, Harry Zarchy. Alfred A.
Knopf, Inc., 501 Madison Avenue,
New York 22. Pp. 171. $3.00.”

CHILDREN AND THEIR PETS AROUND TIIE
WORLD; CHILDREN AND TOYS AROUND
THE WORLD; CHILDREN AT WORSIIIP
AROUND TIIE WORLD; CHILDREN OF
INDIA, Janet Smalley. Friendship
Press, 257 Fourth Avenue, New York
10. Unpaged. $1.25 each.*

CHILDREN’S HUMOR, Martha Wolfen-
stein. 'The Free Press, 1005 W. Bel-
mont Avenue, Glencoe 13, Illinois.
Pp. 224. $3.75.

COMMITTEE COMMON SENSE, Audrey R.
and Harleigh B. Trecker. William

Morrow and Company, Inc., 425
Fourth Avenue, New York 16. Pp.

158. $2.50.

Hare _Y_Qlj learned About The
little llid Basketball Program!

FREE Rules Booklet tO all Recrea-
tion Personnel who write for infor-

130 West 42nd Street
New York 36, New York

608

 

CONTEMPORARY FURNITURE, A. F. Bick.
The Bruce Publishing Company, 400
North Broadway, Milwaukee 1, Wis-
consin. Pp. 89. $2.75.

CRICKET COACHING, D. Townsend. Ox-
ford University Press, 114 Fifth Ave-
nue, New York 11. Pp. 90. $1.00.

EDUCATIONAL FILMSTRIPS, SLIDESETS
AND EQUIPMENT (Catalog). Society
for Visual Education, Inc., 1345 Di-

versey Parkway, Chicago 14. Pp. 55.
Free.

EFFECTIVE LEADERSHIP IN HUMAN RE-
LATIONS, Henry Clay Lindgren. Her-
mitage House, Inc., 8 West 13th
Street, New York 11. Pp. 287. $3.50.

EMOTIONS AND PIIYSICAL HEALTH.
Metropolitan Life Insurance Com-

pany, 1 Madison Avenue, New York
10. Pp. 10. Free.

EXPLORING OUR NATIONAL PARKS AND
MONUMENTS. Devereux Butcher.
Houghton-MiHlin Company, 2 Park
Street, Boston 7. Pp. 288. $4.50.*

GALLANT COLT, William Campbell
Gault. E. P. Dutton and Company,
Inc., 300 Fourth Avenue, New York
10. Pp. 188. $2.75.”

GAMES FOR PARTIES, Kate Stevens.
Frederick Warne 8: Company, Inc.,

210 Fifth Avenue, New York 10. Pp.
128. $1.25.

GOLDEN BOOKS: DONALD DUCK’S
CHRISTMAS TREE, Annie North Bed-
ford. Unpaged. $.25. FROM THEN
TO NOW, J. P. Leventhal. Unpaged.
$.25. GEORGIE FINDS A GRANDPA,
Mirian} Young. Unpaged. $.25.
GOLDEN GOOSE, THE. Unpaged. $.25.
GOLDEN PICTURE DICTIONARY, THE,
Lillian Moore. Pp. 80. $1.00. GOLD-
EN PICTURE BOOK OF NUMBERS, THE,
Edith Osswald and Mary M. Reed.
Pp. 80. $1.00. GOLDEN PICTURE
BOOK OF SCHOOL DAYS, THE, Kath-
ryn Jackson. Pp. 64. $1.00. GOLDEN
PICTURE BOOK OF WORDS, THE, Jane
Werner. Pp. 64. $1.00. PAPER DOLL
WEDDING, THE, Hilda Miloche and
Wilma Kane. Unpaged. $.25. ROY
ROGERS AND COWBOY TOBY, Elizabeth
Beecher. Unpaged. $.25. TOM AND
JERRY’S MERRY CHRISTMAS, Peter
Archer. Unpaged. $.25. TWELVE
DANCING PRINCESSES, Jakob and Wil-
helm Grimm, retold by Jane Werner.
Unpaged. $.25. Simon 8: Schuster,
Inc., Rockefeller Center, 630 Fifth
Avenue, New York 20.”

GUIDE TO UNDERWATER HUNTING, Si-

mon Codrington. John de Grafi, Inc.,
64 West 23rd Street, New York 10.

Pp. 80. $1.75.

HANDBOOK OF TRAIL HANDCRAFT, John
A. Ledlie. Association Press, 291
Broadway, New York 7. Pp. 187.
$4.95.*

HAVE FUN WITH YOUR SON, Edgar Sn

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

Bley. Sterling Publishing Company,
215 East 37th Street, New York 16.
Pp. 124. $2.50.

HIDDEN LIFE OF FLOWERS, TIIE, Noail-
les and Guilcher. Philosophical Li-
brary, Inc., 15 East 40th Street, New
York 16. Pp. 93. $4.75.

HIKING, CAMPING, MOUNTAINEERING
AND TRAIL-CLEARING EQUIPMENT.

Potomac Appalachian Trail Club,

1916 Sunderland Place, NW, Wash-
ington 6, D. C. Pp. 48. $.50.

HOW CAN WE HELP OUR SCHOOL
BOARDS? (Limited edition—final edi-
tion not complete.) National Citizens
Commission for the Public Schools, 2
West 45th Street, New York 36. Pp.

67. Single copies free.

HOW TO COLLECT STAMPS. COINS AND
PAPER MONEY, Ervin J. Felix. Popu-
lar Mechanics Press, 200 East On-
tario Street, Chicago 11. Pp. 160.
$.75.

HOW TO MAKE A HOME NATURE MU-
SEUM, Vinson Brown. Little, Brown

and Company, 34 Beacon Street, Bos-
ton 6. Pp. 214. $2.50.”

INTRAMURAL SPORTS — A TEXT AND
STUDY GUIDE, Harris F. Beeman and
James H. Humphrey. Wm. C. Brown

Publishing Company, 915 Main
Street, Dubuque, Iowa. Pp. 96. $2.75.

KEYS TO FORTUNE, Francis McGuire.
E. P. Dutton and Company, Inc., 300
Fourth Avenue, New York 10. Pp.

124. $2.50.*

LAWS OF LIFE, THE, Adrian Waldo
Sasha. Living Knowledge Founda-
tion, 376 Ivy Street, San Francisco 2.

Pp. 224. $5.00.

LIVING CRAFTS, G. Bernard Hughes.
Philosophical Library, Inc., 15 East
40th Street, New York 16. Pp. 192.
$4.75.

METROPOLITAN LOS ANGELES — A
STUDY IN INTEGRATION, IX—Recrea-
tion and Parks, Ellis McCune. Haynes
Foundation, 916 Consolidated Build-
ing, 607 South Hill Street, Los An-
geles 14. Pp. 73. Cloth, $1.75; paper,
$1.25.

PICTORIAL GUIDE TO CASTING AND SPIN-
NING, Oscar Fraley. A. A. Wyn, Inc.,
23 West 47th Street, New York 36.

Pp. 83. $2.95.”
PLAY SAFE. Camp Fire Girls, Inc., 16

 

* These publications are available from the
National Recreation Association at list price
plus fifteen cents for each book ordered to
cover postage and handling. Active Asso-
ciote and Atiiiiate Members of the Associa-
tion receive a ten per cent discount on list
price. Remittances should accompany orders
from individuals; organizations and recrea-
tion departments will be billed on their oiIi-
cial orders. Address orders to Combined
Book Service, National Recreation Associa-

tion, 8 West Eighth Street, New York 11,
New York. :‘r

RECREATION

East 48th Street, New York 17. Pp.
11. Single copies free.

PRINCIPLES OF CANOEING, Pierre Pull-
ing. The Macmillan Company, 60
Fifth Avenue, New York 11. Pp. 217.
33.955“

RECREATION PROGRAM, THE. The Ath-
letic Institute, Chicago 3. Pp. 342.
$3.00.*

SAVING YOUR MARRIAGE, Evelyn and
Sylvanus Duvall. Public Affairs Com-
mittee, 22 East 38th Street,NewYork.
Pp. 28. 3.25.

SCIIOOL CAMPING, John W. Gilliland.
Association for Supervision and Cur-
riculum Development, National Edu-

cation Association, 1201 Sixteenth
Street, Washington 6, D. C. Pp. 58.
$.75.

SIIORT PLAYS FOR ALL-BOY CASTS, Ver-

non Howard. Plays, Inc., 8 Arling-
ton Street, Boston 16. Pp. 186. $3.00.

SO’M 1, Ted King. E. P. Dutton and
Company, Inc., 300 Fourth Avenue,
New York 10. Pp. 68. 32.503”

STORIES OF LASSEN’S PLACE NAMES,
Paul E. Schulz. Edwards Brothers,
Inc., Ann Arbor, Michigan. Pp. 62.
3.40.

STRENGTHENING C O M M U N I T Y LIFE:
SCHOOLS CAN HELP. Educational
Policies Commission, National Edu-
cation Association of the United
States and the American Association
of School Administrators, 1201 Six-
teenth Street, NW, Washington 6,
D.C. Pp. 42. Single copies $.35; dis-

count allowed on quantities.

TEACHING WITH A FILMSTRIP, Margaret
Divizia. Society for Visual Educa-

tion, Inc., 1346 Diversey Parkway,
Chicago 14. Pp. 20. Free.

TEACH ME TO COOK, Alice D. Morton.
Hart Publishing Company, Inc., 670
Fifth Avenue, New York 19. Pp. 128.
$2.00.

TECIINIQUES TIIAT PRODUCE TEAM-
WORK, Warren H. Schmidt and Paul
C. Buchanan. Arthur C. Croft Pub-
lications, 100 Garfield Avenue, New
London, Connecticut. Pp. 75. $2.50.

TEN NEW CIIRISTMAS CAROLS, Michael
Stoner. TV Music Company, 1650
Broadway, New York 19. Pp. 21.

$1.00.

TEST AND MEASUREMENTS IN HEALTII
AND PIIYSICAL EDUCATION, Third
Edition, Charles Harold McCloy and
Norma Dorothy Young. Appleton-
Century-Crofts, Inc., 35 West 32nd
Street, New York 1. Pp. 497. $6.75.

TIIROUGH TIIE MAGNIFYING GLASS, Ju-
lius Schwartz. Whittlesey House,
McGraw-Hill Book Company, Inc.,
330 West 42nd Street, New York 36.
Pp. 142. $2.50.*

TO HIDDEN DEPTHS, Captain Philippe

DECEMBER 1954

Tailliez. E. P. Dutton & Company,

Inc., 300 Fourth Avenue, New York

10. Pp. 188. $5.00.*

UNDERWATER PHOTOGRAPHY, Hilbert
Schenck, Jr. and Henry Kendall. Cor-

nell Maritime Press, Cambridge,

Maryland. Pp. 110. $3.00.

WORDS FAIL ME, Brant House. A. A.
Wyn, Inc., 23 West 47th Street, New
York 36. Pp. 94. 32.005”

, Periodicals

CHILDREN—A Professional Journal on
Services for Children and on Child
Life. Vol. #3. U. S. Department
of Health, Education and Welfare,
United States Government Printing
Ollice, Washington 25, D. C. Pp. 120.
3.25 per copy; annual subscription
$1.25. 3.50 additional for foreign

mailing.

Magazine Articles I

BEACH AND POOL, May 1954
Solving Common Swimming Pool
Problems, Carl 0. Bauer.

Pool Commodities Design and Equip-
ment, D. H. Dewindt.

   

 

Portfolio: Chemical Feeders and
Chemicals.
lune1954

Plan Before You Build Your Pool,
William H. Ryde.

Portfolio: Chemicals Fed.

The Contribution of Swimming to

Physical Fitness, Thomas K. Cure-
ton, Ph. D.

September 1954

Pools of Alaska, Wesley Bintz.

Pool Site Dewatered by Wellpoints,
Byron I. Prugh.

The Contribution of Swimming to

Physical Fitness, Part IV, Thomas
K. Cureton.

CAMPING MAGAZINE, Jane 1954
Summer Activities Issue

JOURNAL OF THE AMERICAN ASSOCIA-
TION FOR HEALTH, PHYSICAL EDUCA-
TION AND RECREATION, June 1954
Teen-Age Camp Counselor Trainees,
Léslie S. Clark. ‘i
A Community Recreation Survey
Guide, Thomas S. Yukic.
Canoe Caravan, Ruth Schellberg.

PARK MAINTENANCE, Jane 1954
Ohio’s Plan for Parks.
How To Make Plant Containers for
Your Park.

PARKS AND RECREATION, Jane 1954
Training Institutes for Volunteer

Leaders in Camping and Outdoor
Education, Julian W. Smith.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

 

Essentials in the Camp Program,
Reynold E. Carlson. ,

Everglades Develops Into Sports
Park, Joseph Brown.

September 1954

Baltimore Recreation Highlights, H.
S. Callowhill.

First Pre-Cast Swimming Pool In~
stalled.

Maryland Parks Develop With Grow~
ing Population.

Des Moines Arboretum Proves to be
Important Recreation Unit, Paul

L. Sandahl.

BIG SAVINGS LEATHER

Now, for first time, you can buy full sides of

top grain cowhide at our special, amazingly
low "Tannery-to-you" prices. For details,
write Dept. 6, W. D. Byron & Sons, Williams-
port, Md. Fine cowhide tonners since 1832.

TENNIS TABLE

For Outdoor and
Indoor Use

Here for the First Time is the Heavy-
Duty Aluminum Tennis Ta b I e
Featuring Durability and Low Cost.

Sturdin Constructed to Withstand
Extreme Abuse From Play and
Weather. Built to Last a Life-Time.

0 Regulation Bounce and
Construction.

0 Attractively Finished with
Permanent Green Anodized
Non-Glare Surface.

° Secured Solid Steel Center
Net. ,.

° No Sharp Corners or Edges.

° No Maintenance or Replace-
ment Problems.

0 Many Times More Economi-
cal Than Wooden Tables.

SPECIFICALLY DESIGNED AND
CONSTRUCTED FOR HEAVY-
DUTY USE IN:

Outdoor and Indoor Recreation
Centers, Playgrounds, Resorts, Clubs,
Camps, Ocean-going Vessels, etc.

All-METAL TENNIS MM [0.

760 George Street
Teoneck, N. J.

609'

 

I Wonder Why

Gustavus T. Kirby. Coward-McCann,
lnc., 210 Madison Avenue, New York.
Pp. 180. 3300*

“People have been my life and my joy
and my endless wonder,” so writes Gus-
tavus T. Kirby, who was treasurer of

the National Recreation Association
from 1908-1946 and thereafter has been

treasurer emeritus. Few men wait until
they are eighty years of age to write
their memoirs, but this Mr. Kirby has

done. People are the keynote of the
book and the author has hobnobbed

with great and small the world around.

Continuous interest in athletics and
sports has been expressed in his activity
in the New York City Public Schools
Athletic League, the Amateur Athletic
Union, and the American Olympic As-
sociation, all of which he served as
president. He also has served as chair-
man of the New York City Recreation
Commission and of the Westchester
County Planning Commission.

In his book Mr. Kirby gives personal
experiences in the World Congress for
Leisure Time and Recreation, so auspi-
ciously begun in Los Angeles in 1932.
Mr. Kirby served as presiding ofliccr at
Hamburg in 1936 and at Rome in 1938,
and, sadly, at the final meeting in Lon-
don in 1939.

Perhaps what readers will remember
best is Gus Kirby’s summary of a long
and rich life: “Life is to be lived as
fully as posssible, all of of its nectar to
be sipped and tasted with appreciation
and wonder; all its sounds and sights,
its music and art, its winds and its per-
fumes; its men and its women.” And
his final judgmcnt: “Only through
sports can there ever be a true democ-
racy in this world.”

Sports Injuries

Christopher Woodard. Clarke, Irwin
& Company Limited, 103 St. Clair Ave-
nue West, Toronto 5. Pp. 128. $52.50.

Sports Injuries is a book that trainers
and handlers of athletes will want on
their book shelves. With the increase of

610

new
Publications

Covering the Leisure-time Field

Little League Baseball and Midget Foot-
ball, the book will be of interest to rec-
reation leaders.

The author describes the treatment of
injuries common to athletes, covering
those that need “rough” or active treat-
ment, those that need rest treatment,
and be carefully points out those that
should be handled by a doctor. Sug-
gested treatment is given for all body
injuries, from head to foot, common to
athletes. Use of ear plugs by swimmers
and divers, the author claims, actually
increases the risk of damage to the ear
drums—Clarence Brewer, Field Repre-
sentative, National Recreation Associa-
tion.

Thirty Contras From New England

Dudley T. Briggs, Burlington, Massa-
chusetts. Pp. 77. $1.50.

Mr. Briggs has done much more than
give the reader the directions for do-
ing thirty-four contra dances. He has
given one the feel of contra dancing and
the fun and sociability which is part
of it. n

Without being in the least pedagogic
he has emphasized the importance of
style, precise timing and working with
the music which is the charm of this
kind of dancing. He has also stressed
the responsibility of the caller for giv-
ing the dancers a feeling of accomplish-
ment and satisfaction.

This is in pleasant contrast to much
of the material on dancing which seems
to be a mad rush to see if you can get
whcre you are supposed to be before
the next step begins.

I particu‘arly liked the way the au-
thor brought out the point that contras
may be done with men only or women
only. Scout troops, gymnasium classes
and recreation groups where members
consist solely of one sex can use and
enjOy these without the men having to
take the part of girls -and vice versa.

For the boys nine to thirteen years
of age who like to dance—but not with
girls—these contra dances fill a need
for enjoyable neuro-muscular activity
with successful accomplishment coming

rather quickly.

The eight chapters cover: The Nature
of Contra Dancing; Steps and Figures;
Style in Contra Dancing; Music for
Contra Dancing; Contra Formations
and Progressions; Calling Contras;
Teaching Contras; and Contras for All
Men and All Women Dancers.

These are so well explained and care-
fully written that any teacher or rec-
reation leader would have no dilliculty
in working them out.

The author has listed records for each
dance as well as orchestra music.

It is a valuable addition to the dance
library of any recreation workcr.—
Helen M. Dauncey, Katherine F. Barker
Memorial Secretary for Women and
Girls, National Recreation Association.

Swimming Pools for Schools

Donald W. Neilson and John E. Nix-

on. Educational Administration Mono-

graph No. 3. Stanford University
Press, Stanford, California. Pp. 43.
$2.00. ’

This booklet, a monograph in the se-
ries on educational administration is_-
sued by Stanford University’s School
of Education, is a timely and useful pub-
lication. Interest in the construction of
swimming pools is wide-spread through-
out the nation, but it is particularly
strong in California where, according
to a report issued by the State Depart-
ment of Education, there are more than
19,000 indoor and outdoor pools.

The early sections of the volume deal
with the values of swimming and the
organization of a program of swimming
instruction. The design and construc-
tion of pools, however, receive major
consideration. Among the Specific top-
ics discussed are indoor versus outdoor
pools and pool shapes, contours and
dimensions. Various aspects of con-
struction, such as ladders, inlets and
outlets, gutters and filtering, disinfect-
ing and heating systems are dealt with
concisely but effectively. Specific rcc-
ommendations are made with respect
to many features. The photographs and
sketches accompanying the text add
reader interest and illustrate the prin-
ciples and methods presented in the
booklet.

The authors emphasize the impor-
tance of swimming as an activity in the
school program and stress the swim-
ming pool as an essential feature of the
modern plant. The information in the
booklet is equally useful, however, to
municipal authorities and community
committees considering the construc-
tion of an indoor or an outdoor pool.
This publication which contains a se-
lective bibliography is a valuable addi-
tion to swimming pool literature.

* See footnote on page 608.

RECREATION

