Gs‘

I.

a
v
a
i
a

NATIONAL BICBE

 

O

O

O

‘§:$ZZ§ %§%§%§%§%§%§%§%§%§%§%§K§K§§K§Zfi§l€§K§ZE§K °
‘71.

Christmas"

A COMMUNITY

CHRISTMAS PARTY

Games and other suggestions for a
community~wide party.

(P 196)
$.20

CHRISTMAS CRAFTS
AND DECORATIONS

Directions for making many types of
cards, ornaments for the tree, and
decorations for the home.

(P 192)
$.65

 

STORIES
OF THE
CHRISTMAS CAROLS

With suggestions for a “Learn a
Carol a Day” program.

(P 132)
3.15

 

THE
CHRISTMAS
BOOK

A booklet with information about
customs and legends of other lands,
parties, carols, decorations, gifts, and
other Christmas ideas and sugges~

tions.
$.50

 

PLAYS, PAGEANT S
AND CEREMONIALS
FOR THE
CHRISTMAS SEASON

A booklet containing a varied collec~
tion of dramatic material, including
a candle-lighting service and an in-
door treeolighting service, brought to-
gether for the first time.

(P 190)
$.65

CHRISTMAS
CAROL LEAFLETS

Words of ten of the most familiar
carols for singing.

(Per 100)
3.80

GAMES FOR THE
CHRISTMAS SEASON

A booklet of games suitable for chil-
dren, teen-agers and adults, with
suggested age ranges.

(P 191)
3.65

 

CROWN YOUR
TWELVE MONTHS
MERRILY!

A Party for the celebration of
Twelfth-night—January 6.

(P 194)

3.15

 

RECREATION Magazine Subscriptions for Christmas Gifts

As a Christmas gift for people who are interested in recreation—whether they are pro»
fessional recreation leaders or volunteers, students or teachers; whether they are interested
in administration, personnel, program or general articles; special groups or ‘all groups;
a particular activity or an overall plan—RECREATION is a wise and thoughtful choice.
An attractive card will announce your gift!

1 year $4.00

2 years $7.25

Send in the convenient coupon on the next page.

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
8 West Eighth Street, New York 11, New York

  °  

Eff}. $53. .33! 55% S-‘tyf

J.

saga. xsxastax. a. max. maxaxazszexaxax. 22E:%§\it

  
     

ECONOMICAL for any/size ~ I o .
SAFE SEATING audience sl'llnor  Eve" QPWPa'lson!

AMERICAN-UNIVERSAL I
GALVANIZED
BLEACHERS

Engineered to national standards; provide exact number
of seat-rows for present needs—economically expanded in
depth and section for future plans. Prefabricated structural
steel members Galvanized for thorough protection against
rust and corrosionr—at no extra COSt.

LOWER LUMBER and INSTALLATION cosrs
“Vlwss-cLQMES'f

 

 

ATHLETIC BALLS

So sensationally better are they on
every count—design, construction,
quality, durability and playability—
that Rawlings HERCULITE
Rubber-Covered Athletic Balls
have established a new high
standard. They're in a class

by themselves—~they’re. .

j ‘_ ,"74e 7am:
". 7a 746 766%.,”

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
    
        
 

lower initial cost by buy-
ing lumber locally, elim-
inate freight and ban-
dling. Attach seat and
foot boards securely
without seat bolts—no
drilling or fItting of lum-
ber required.

 
   
    

  

o VOLLEY BALLS
o BASKETBALLS
o SOCCER BALLS
o FOOTBALLS

—__ h —

5‘ ONE OBERAIION FASTENS
BOARDS wnnour DRILLING

UNIVERSAL
MANUFACTURING CORP.

§%£%§%§%§ZZ§ZZ§K£%§%§W

O
o .

  
    
 

Write for New Bulletin

ZEUENPOLE 10' FM. I RAWLINGS SPORTING GOODS CO. 0 ST. LOUIS & LOS-AIIGELES '

P—“rw

5%

Send

2mm

as a Christmas Gift

° K§°K§ °

Order your gift subscription now

{if
§%§%§%.%

0: NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
8 West Eighth Street
New York I I. N. Y.

_|-T

Please send gift subscription with my personal
greetings to:


'  02
I  ~ W
0

Sports Eqmpment

 

7
I .
I
I
I
I
M | p
I
Street :
CII’Y—_—____—Zone | I
State : 1
[:l 1 year 4.00 [I 2 years 7.25
[Check tors endosed. I I See your local MarGregor Dealer
I Sign my gittuannouncement card I
I “a” I I ' We WM”
| Street__________________ I I   
l Ci+y Zone I CINCINNATI - CHICAGO - NEW YORK - Los means
I State I
_|

I
-————_—H_——_—__—————

NOVEMBER 1955 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 401

402

NATIONAL

RECREATION ASSOCIATION

A Service Organization Supported by Voluntary Contributions

P"I

 

PAULINE nss Canvass—Vice-Chairman
Superintendent of Recreation
San Diego, California

JAcstN M. ANDERSON

Consultant in Recreation and Out-
door Education, American Asso-
ciation for Health, Physical Edu-
cation, Recreation

Washington, D. C.

R ALI-H J. ANDREWS .

Director, North Carolina Recreation
Commission
Raleigh, North Carolina

FRANK I. ANNEEEEO
Recreation Director
Manhattan, Kansas

T. A. BELSER

Superintendent of Parks and
Recreation

Montgomery, Alabama

ROBERT F. BIOLEY
Ithaca Colleee
Ithaca, New York

f‘" “HES K. B"IGHTBILL

U niversit'v of Illinois
Urbana, Illinois

Mas. THERESA S. BRUNCARDI'
Vermont Director of Recreation
Montpelier, Vermont

HARRY R. BRYAN
City Recreation Director
Sumter, South Carolina

ALFRED P. CAPPIO

Superintendent of Recreation v
Paterson, New Jersey

VIROINIA CARMICHAEL

Director of Recreation, Department
of Parks

Atlanta, Georgia

MILO F. CHRISTIANSEN

Superintendent of Recreation
Washington, D. C.

GEOROE E. DICKIE

Executive Secretary, Federal Inter-

Agency Committee on Recreation
Washington, D. C.

BEN EVANS
Director of Recreation
Seattle, Washington

JAMES C. EVANS

Civilian Assistant, Ofice of Assist-
ant Secretary Of Defense

Washington, D. C.

ON

ROBERT W. CRAWFORD—~Cbairman
Deputy Commissioner and Superintendent,

Department of Recreation

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

JOSEPH PRENDERGAST, Executive Director

 

NATIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE

DEFENSE RELATED SERVICES

ARTHUR WILLIAMS-Secretary

Assistant Executive Director, National

Recreation Association
New York, New York

RUSSELL J. FovAL
Director of Recreation
Decatur, Illinois

DR. SHERWOOD GATES

Chief, Office of Community Serv-
ices, Department of the Air Force

Washington, D.C.

B. P. Gwen-om

Department of Community Serv-
ices, Count? of Los Angeles

Los Angeles, California

FOREST V. GnsrArsON
Director of Recreation, Montgom-

ery County
Rockville, Maryland

L. B. HOUSTON
Director of Parks and Recreation
Dallas, Texas

TEMPLE R . IARRELL

Superintendent of Recreation
Fort Lauderdale, Florida

Curr KERRY

Recreation Supervisor, Callaway
Mills C om oany

LaCrange, Georgia

RAY Koo:

Employees Service Department,
Ford lifotor Company
Dearborn, Michigan

THOMAS W. LAN'rz

Sunerintendent of Public Recrea-
tion, Metropolitan Park District

Tacoma, Washington

JAMES C. LEWIS
Director of Recreation
Lincoln, Nebraska

KEITH A. MACDONALD

Executive Director, Greater Vallejo
Recreation District
Vallejo, California

MRS. MARTHA B. Mum

Superintendent Of Recreation
Mobile, Alabama

NATHAN L. MALLLISON

Superintendent of Recreation
Jacksonville, Florida

WILLIAM A. MOORE

General Superintendent of Parks
and Recreation

Louisville, Kentucky

R. R. Mnarnr

Superintendent of Parks
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma

SELWYN Oncn'r'r

Superintendent of Recreation and
Parks

Fayetteville. North Carolina

LUTHER F. Forum

Chief, Recreation Division, Peter
Kiewit Sons’ Company

Portsmouth, Ohio

WILLIAM B. POND

Superintendent of Parks and Rec-
reation, Tualatin Hills Park and
Recreation District

Washington County, Oregon

CHARLES J. REI-rz

Superintendent of Parks and Rec-
reation

Yuma, Arizona

I. A. REYNOLDS
Director, Department of Recreation

and Parks
Richmond, Virginia

E. STUART RICHTER
Superintendent of Recreation
Colorado Springs, Colorado

GEORGE T. SARcIsSON

Executive Director, Recreation and
Promotion Service, Inc.

Wilmington, Delaware

ARTHUR D. Scar-r

Recreation Supervisor, Boeing Air-
plane Company

Seattle, Washington

ALI‘RED P. SmozDAs

Superintendent of Parks and Rec-
reation

Dayton, Ohio

CLARENCE L. THOMAS

Executive Director, Linden Com-
munity Center

Dayton, Ohio .

JAY M. Van LEE
Superintendent of Recreation
Oakland, California

STERLING S. WINANS

Director of Recreation, California
Recreation Commission

Sacramento, California

WILLIAM P. Wrrr
Director of Parks and Recreation
Corpus Christi, Texas

BERNARD Yon:
Superintendent of Recreation
West Palm Beach, Florida

 

The National Advisory Committee on Defense Related Services, composed of outstanding leaders in defense and recre-
ation, was appointed to help the National Recreation Association to develop special defense recreation services designed

to bring our country’s local, state and national resources to bear on the recreation needs created by the impact of the
national defense program.

RECREATION

 

NOVEMBER 1955

 

Editor in Chief, JOSEPH PRENDERGAST
Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON
Editorial Assistant, AMELIA HENLY
Business Manager, ALFRED H. WILSON

ASSOCIATE EDITORS

Recreation Administration, GEORGE BUTLER
Program Activities, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

 

Vol. XLVIII Price 50 Cents No. 9

0n the Cover

Play activities are education for the very young—
a fact to which school projects for this age will
attest. This young miss is intent upon making a
cardboard house. Photo courtesy New York City
Board of Education.

Next Month

The 37th National Recreation Congress story and
more pictures than ever; also the Congress address
of Edgar Ansel Mowrer and excerpts from other
speeches. Among others are an excellent article on
how to put on a television program, “Television—
A Year Later,” by Ruth E. Pike; figure skating as a
“maximum-participation” activity, “Skating With a
Twist,” by Loren M. Thorson; and ideas for holi-
day festivities.

Photo Credits

Page 405, Austin Recreation Department, Tex.;
420, Pirkle Jones, San Francisco; 421, Phil Fein,
San Francisco; 420-23, William G. Merchant, San
Francisco; 424-25, Warren Montano, Muncie News-
papers, Inc., Ind.; 427, Hines, Belk Leggett Studio,
Danville, Va.; 429, Michael Kosinski, Daly City,
Calif.; 430, Dick Dillon, Ft. Lauderdale, Fla.; 431,
Parks and Recreation Department, Greensboro, N.
C.; 432, Recreation Department, Torrington, Conn.;

433, Madison Square Boys Club, New York City.

RECREATION is published monthly except July and
August by the National Recreation Association. a service
organization supported by voluntary contributions. at 8
West Eighth Street, New York 11, New York. is on
file in public libraries and is indexed in the Readers'
Guide. SubSCriptions $4.00 a year. Canadian and for-
eign subscription rate $4.50. Re—entered as second-class
matter April 25. 1950, at the Post Oiiice in New York,
New York, under Ad of March 3. 1879. Acceptance
for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in
Section 1103. Ac: of OCtober 3, 1917. authorized May
1, 1924. Microfilms of current issues available Uni-

versity Microfilms, 313 N. First Street. Ann Arbor,
Michigan.

Space Representatives: H. Thayer Heaton, 141 East
44th Street, New York 17, New York: Mark Minahan,
168 North Michigan Avenue. ChiCago, Illinois: Keith
H. Evans. 3757 Wilshire Boulevard. Los Angelcs 5, and
593 Market Street. Suite 304, San Francisco 5.
California.

Copyright, 1955. by the
National Recreation Association, Incorporated

Printed in the U.S.A.
1@913

' Trade mark registered in U. S. Patent Oihce.

 

NOVEMBER 1955

THE MAGAZINE OF

 

THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

CONTENTS

GENERAL FEATURES

Recreation Philosophy (Editorial) . . . . . .Beverly S. She$eld 405
An Old House Comes to Life . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .llIarvin Rife .410
Thanksgiving Day. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Stephen Vincent Benet 413
The Social Group Worker in Public Recreation
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Gertrude Wilson 414

State Inter—Agency Committees Confer in

Virginia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Robert R. Gamble 417
AuMINIs'rnATION

The Evolution of a Long-Range Recreation Plan

(Condensed from a report by Josephine D. Randall). . . . 420
On Preparing Play Areas for Skating . . . . . . .Harold R. Gelein 423
Ice-Rink Briefs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 428
Close Cooperation in Planning . . . . . . . . . . . . .Robert D. Sisco 437
Research Program of the National Recreation Association. . . . 439
Research Reviews and Abstracts. . . . . . . . . . .George D. Butler 440
PROGRADI
A Cherished Event———at Christmas . . . . . . . . .Kathleen Meehan 424
The Night Train . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . V. C. Smoral 427
Photograms (Idea of the Month) . . . . . . . . . .Michael Kosinski 429
Suggestions for Your Christmas Planning . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 430
Make Your Christmas Cards (How to Do It) . .ank A. Staples 434
Recipes for Fun (Bookbinding) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 435
Santa Claus is Real . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .R. H. Abernethy 441
REGULAR FEATURES
Things You Should Know. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 404

Letters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 406

Reporters Notebook . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 418

Hospital Capsules . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .Beatrice H. Hill 438

Personnel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . W. C. Sutherland 442

Market News . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 444

Listening and Viewing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . h . . . . . . . . 445

Books and Pamphlets Received, Magazine Articles . . . . . . . . . . 446

Index of Advertisers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 447

New Publications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 448

Recreation Leadership Courses. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Inside Back Cover
403

 

} IMPORTANT NOTICE! REMEMBER
WHEN ORDERING. The title of the new
hospital recreation film, produced by
the NRA Hospital Recreation Consul-
tant Department and Robert Wald, has
been changed to Rx for Recreation
(from Too Much for Too Littlel—be-
cause of an unforeseen duplication in
title with a government film. Rx for
Recreation, a twenty-eight-minute color
film, was shown to delegates at the 37th
National Recreation Congress under its
formerltitle.

} TO START SOON: A revival of RECREA-
TION magazine’s column 0n the Campus.
Educators, students, take note! Get
your news items in soon. The column
will now be handled by Alfred Jensen,
Recreation Personnel Service, National
Recreation Association. Address him
directly.

) FOR NEWS OF THE SEGREGATION—DE-
SEGREGATION PICTURE IN THE SOUTHERN
STATES affected by the recent Supreme
Court rulings, get Southern School
News—a monthly tabloid paper de-
scribed by Newsweek magazine as “the
talk of educators and public officials
throughout the South.” It is published
by the Southern Education Reporting
Service, and is designed to report ob-
jectively and without bias, develop-
ments in the southern states.

The publication was founded by a
thirteen man board of southernieditors
and educators, and is supported by a
grant from the Fund for the Advance-
ment of Education and by a nominal
subscription fee of two dollars per year,

first made effective this July. The post-
Ofiice is Box 6156, Acklen Station,
Nashville.

) AN AMBITIOUS PROGRAM designed to
give the country a park system “worthy
of the United States,” is being studied
by directors and Operators of the na-
tional park system, according to a re-
cent announcement in the New York
Times. “Conrad L. Wirth, director of
the National Park Service, described
the objective of Mission 66, the staff
group he established to review the serv-
ice’s problems and to recommend a
long-range development and manage-
ment program to overcome them.” Mis-

404

74cm @464 5% Km .

 

sion 66 is so named because it is hoped
that this program may be completed
within that anniversary year. The pro-
gram calls for appropriations greater
than ever before given to the service.

) INFORMATION ABOUT WHITE-WATER
BOATING AND CANOEING, river touring.
wilderness cruising, can be obtained

from the American White Water Affilia-
tion founded in 1953. They also publish
a quarterly magazine, American White
Water. Address: 6255 Chabot Road,
Oakland 18, California.

) THE AMERICAN CAMPING ASSOCIA-
TION NATIONAL CONVENTION in Detroit,
February 15 to 18, 1956, will devote
three sessions to “Municipal Camping.”
Day camping, resident camping, family
camping, camps for older boys and
girls, common problems in manage-
ment, leadership, programs, mainte-
nance, and standards will be discussed.
Henry D. Schubert who is superintend-
ent of recreation in Dearborn, Michi-
gan, is chairman of these sessions. De-
tails may be obtained from American
Camping Association, 4864 Woodward
Avenue, Detroit 1, Michigan.

} DON’T FORGET that the December
issue of RECREATION will carry pictures
and report of the Denver National Rec-
reation Congress. The address of Edgar
Ansel Mowrer, journalist and commen-
tator, will be included, as will excerpts
from other addresses. The December
issue also carries our Annual Index.

} TWO NEW PUBLICATIONS LISTING RE-
SEARCH recently completed or under
way were issued this summer: Research
in Recreation Completed in 1953 and
1954 lists over two hundred reports
classified by subject matter, and was
issued by the National Recreation As.-
sociation. It is available at $1.00 per
copy. Research Underway and Research
Needed in Health Education, Physical
Education, Recreation was published by
the American Association for Health,
Physical Education, and Recreation,

1201 Sixteenth Street, N.W., Washing-
ton 6, D. C., and is $1.00 per c0py. It

lists thirty-five recreation studies cur-
rently under way at colleges and univer-
sities and a number of recreation sub-
jects on which research is desired.

) WHAT IS THE RECREATION SITUATION
IN YOUR LOCAL HOSPITAL? A movement
is now afoot to get citizens of local com-
munities to do something about the un-
happy state of patients in hospitals for
the mentally ill—by the way of ad-
ministering kindness and entertain-
ment. In a letter to the New York Times,
Irving Heitner, president, Rockland HOS-
pital Guild, New York, stated nearly a
year ago “May we bring to the atten-
tion of your readers the very unhappy
plight of the more than one thousand
friendless patients at Rockland State
Hospital?

“Our organization has for a number
of years been doing what we can with
our limited finances to bring some joy
and comfort to patients. . . . We do this
by arranging ward parties with refresh-
ments and volunteer entertainment . . .
provide additional recreational facili-
ties to while away the long hours . . . .

“It is only through publicity . . . . this
situation can be brought to light and,
through public awareness, some meas-
ure of alleviation given these victims of
extreme misfortune.”

Volunteer workers, in a “mobilization
of human kindness” to alleviate like
Situations in veterans hospitals, through
the Veterans Administration Volunteer
Service, at the same time rated the pub-
lication of an excellent article in Col-

lier’s: “A New Way to Help the Lost
Ones,” by Albert Deutsch.

) IN THE BATTLE FOR LAND in New York
City (see “The Fight for Land,” page
332, September 1955 issue of RECREA-
TION)-—— in which Park Commissioner
Robert Moses has been battling in an
attempt to recapture the Site of an old
hospital, in Rockaway Beach, belonging
to the city, for a badly needed extension
of Jacob Riis Park—the attorney gen-
eral now holds that the city must return
the property to park control. Plans had
been made to sell it to private enter-
prise, but it has been ruled that the city
does not have. this power. The city’s
Board of Estimate had defeated the pro-
posal of Mr. Moses last July. The at-
torney general bases his opinion on the
fact that the site was originally part of
the property used to make up Jacob Riis
Park and had been withdrawn from the
park department’s jurisdiction only
temporarily. The Situation is pending
final determination by the courts.

) COMMITTEES ON RECRUITING FOR THE
RECREATION PROFESSION are being es-
tablished by a number of state recrea-
tion societies and associations. In re-
sponse to recent NRA Personnel Serv-
ice inquiry, only one of eighteen state
groups replying reported a state recruit-
ing committee. Three were giving some
thought to establishing a committee.
Fourteen plan action soon.

RECREATION

Recreation Philosophy
Told in Pictures 

Beverly S. Sheffield

THERE IS MORE reason behind the Operation of the recreation de-
partment of the City of Austin (Texas) than the organizing
of athletic leagues or the maintenance of golf courses.

There is' a philosophy which is interested in the lives of people.
The dynamics of parks and playgrounds is what happens to the
individuals who use them. The leaders are pleased when they see
an activity brought to a successful conclusion, but they are deeply
satisfied when they see an individual personality and character de-
ve10ping and growing from creative play experiences.

Tommy was crippled. He could never step up in the batter’s box.
watch the pitch and meet the ball ust right for a two-base hit. But
a wise playground leader showed Tommy another way to gain
status with the fellows. He was encouraged to play chess; and soon
he was not only playing, but winning, too! By doing something
well. enough to be a winner, Tommy gained recognition from the
other boys.

Tommy is not an isolated example. The awareness of trained
personnel to the needs of others often aids in personality develop-
ment and character building. A mother who brought her child to
a community center for handicraft classes was helped by an alert
instructor. This mother was persuaded to attempt some copper
tooling; and much later she told the instructor that this period in
her life had been a diflicult one, and that the art work had done
much to help her to adjust.

The grandmother who finds new friends at the Golden-Age Club,
the woman who relaxes at the exercise class, the growing youngster
who learns poise and eXpression in the Children’s Theatre, the
church-school class for boys who gain group spirit while playing
as a team in the basketball league, and the family who develops a.
unity and fellowship in singing together on the Barton Springs”
hillside—all those demonstrate that recreation is a basic need of life.

It has been said that if you want to know a boy, watch his play;
and, if you want to know a man, observe how he spends his leisure.
The growing boy and girl need opportunities for group play and
individual creative activities. Play is an important educational
medium; it is an integrating force in the deve10pment of person-
ality; and it tends to develop strong, healthy bodies.

To carry out the philos0phy and purpose of recreation, the pro-
gram must be one of variety, depth, and challenging activity. This
is the goal of the recreation department as its leadership plans and

conducts a city-wide program of more than seventy-five activities. ~

MR. SHEFFIELD is director of the Austin (Texas) Recreation De-
partment. Reprinted through courtesy of The Austin American.

RECREATION FOR RELAXATION. A favorite form for this
family—and for thousands of other family or small groups—is
to pack a picnic supper and get away from the city to eat it. Zilker
Park, for instance, has tables and picnic units for 2,200 persons.

 

 

ming student must learn to take care of himself in
the water without fear. This lad is typical of the
three thousand Austin youngsters who take part in
city recreation department’s learn-to-swim program.

 

the Kourtin’ Korner, Austin’s teen-age center, where
dancing, table tennis, pool, and other games are
part of the Tuesday and Saturday recreation pro-
gram under supervision of a recreation director.

 

to manipulate the puppets—plan or watch their an-
tics in a performance. Marionette'theatre~makes 'a
tour of the playgrounds. Play is learning; and creative
activity, by its very nature, is an education medium.

RECREATION FOR TEAMWORK. Softball is just

one of the many sport activities for both boys and
girls sponsored by the Austin recreation department.
Future citizens learn fair play, good sportsmanship.

 

skating

for health and

recreation

Q1

“Q

A WONDERFUL SPORT
a! low cost and upkeep

It’s easy to start a roller skating program!
It’s a healthful exercise and the popular
way to build strong bodies. A favorite
with boys and girls and budget planners,
too . . . roller skating makes a grand co-
recreational activity. Handles the largest
groups quickly and easily. Halls, gyms,
or any large floor area make fine roller
rinks. Invest in health and fun this season.

-—-Rubber Tire Skates—--.
FOR USE ON WAXED FLOORS IN

Gyms, Ballrooms orHalls

    

ABSOLUTELY ‘
GUARANTEED

- NOT TO MAR,SCRATOH OR DAMAGE-

Rink clamp skates developed by
CHICAGO specially for skating on
waxed doors. The rubber wheels
are ideal for use on tile, ballroom ,
floors or any highly waxed surface.
Will not harm or mark.

Write Now to the leader in Rink
Skates on How to Start

‘caICAGo”

noun sun COMPANY
The Choice of Champions . . . for over 45 Years

4490 West lake Street—Chicago 24, Illinois
406

i

I

I

I

I

I

I 
I - .
I

I

I

I

I

I

I.

 

 

 

o n o a o.
o..-
I I I I . I .

...
c n - . . -.
- u. .-

o n o ' c o .'

... ..
I. C.
I n . ' n . n . ' . '

. . - . . o I a _ . .-
' I o ‘ - - a - ' - ' .

o - - - - no
' . I . - n a u o o'
. . I a . - o-

- n a . ' .'

n

g n . . .-
'''''''''''' .'

o n u n u.
0.. o
....... e.

  

Readers .’ You are invited to send letters for this page

to Editor, RECREATION, 8 West Eighth Street, New
York 11——so that your ideas, opinions and attitudes
may be exchanged with others on the wide range of
subjects of concern to us all. Here is your chance to
agree or disagree with the authors of our articles.

Editorial from Boys Town
Sirs:

The March 11 issue of Boys Town
Times, published at Boys Town, Ne-
braska, contains an excellent editorial
by the Rt. Rev. Msgr. Nicholas H. Weg-
ner, director of Father F lanagan’s Boys”
Home. The subject of the editorial is
i‘Play and Its Relation to the Child.”

In recent months I have noted in edi-
torials appearing in this paper a grow-
ing tendency to emphasize the recrea-
tion point of View, and I would recom-
mend that you study these editorials
with the ultimate idea of having them
reprinted, where applicable, in RECREA-
TION—especially the March 11 editorial.
I believe there is much “meat” in them
that would be of interest and benefit to
our conferees in the field of recreation.

CHARLES C. KELLEY, Superintendent

of Recreation, Somerville, M assachu-

SCiiS.

0 See page 358 of October 1955 issue
of RECREATION for Father Wegner's
editorial of March ll.—Ed.

The Role of the School

in Recreation
Sirs:

Dr. Gabrielsen’s article, in the Sep-
tember 1955 magazine issue, “What is
the Role of the School in Recreation,” is
very stimulating. In fact, it is well writ-
ten and I intend to use it. He has out-
lined and set forth the responsibilities
of the school in recreation and, in logi-
cal sequence, suggested techniques for
organized cooperative effort on the local
level. Will it do the job? That depends
upon the right leadership. Unless there
are real believers to initiate continuous
action on a community-wide basis, pro-
gress will be slow and spasmodic. It
_seems that too many of us talk about
things that everyone knows and never
get into action. We spend too much
time laying the background. What we
need are some good primers to shock

: communities into action; for example,

President Eisenhower’s Sports Clinic
and others on a national scale.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

—The Editors.

Actually everyone is stating what the
schools should do, and too often blames
them for most of the human ills. Super-
intendents have real problems which are
pyramiding with increasing rapidity.
Many have learned to operate on the
horns of a dilemma. Particularly is this
true in recreation. They draw close to
the program with words and deny the
action thereof. The schools are doing a
good job with what they have to work
with. Too often the teacher is over—
worked and underpaid and has little
energy and time to give to recreation.
The schools need public opinion and
support for recreation in. order that
they can proceed with some degree of
safety. How and what should be done?
I am sure Dr. Gabrielsen has some ex-
cellent ideas as well as many other rec-
reation people. Here would be an ex-
cellent committee project.

LEON G. GREEN, Head, Physical Edu-
cation Department, University of I da-

ho, Moscow, Idaho.

Information Wanted
Sirs:

I have begun work at The Baltimore
Hearing Society on a five-year demon-
stration recreation project. The pur-
pose of the project is to integrate hear-
ing-impaired children into recreation
programs which include normal-hear-
ing children. It is h0ped that through
this type of integration, the hearing-im-
paired child will be able to acquire rec-
reation and social skills so that he will

be better able to adjust in the normal-
hearing world.

My work on this project began April
1, 1955. Since that time, a number of
hearing-impaired children have been
placed with normal-hearing children in
various recreation activities, including
day and resident camps. Though time
has not been suflicicnt for evaluation of
the hearing-impaired children’s adjust-
ment, agencies which have been serving
the children report that the children are
making some progress in learning rec-
reation skills and in making new friends.

RECREATION

I am very much interested in receiv-
ing information from persons who have
worked with hearing-impaired children
in regard to integration with normal-
hearing children.

ROBERT H. DOMBRO, Recreation Ther-

Baltimore, Maryland.

Editorials on
Juvenile Delinquency

Sirs: ~

The editorial by Sidney G. Lutzin,

I printed in September 1955 issue of REC--

f REATION, is one of the best that has ever
been printed. It hits the nail right on

i the head, as far as juvenile delinquency
is concerned. It has been my privilege
to preach this same gospel, wherever
and whenever juvenile delinquency has
been brought up in discussion, in public
forums or in private.

This editorial should be reprinted
and more distribution should be made
to all city oHicials, probation oflicers
and others interested in the problem. If
you do reprint it, please advise me as I
would like to have a good many copies.

I am enclosing another reprint on
juvenile delinquency, from the Reader’s

Digest. [“The Disastrous Three D’s of
Parenthood,” June 1955] by the emi-
nent Bishop Sheen, which I have had the

pleasure of distributing to many agen-
cies throughout this area.
HAROLD LOGIN, Recreation Superin-
tendent, Department of Parks and
Public Property, Jersey City, New
Jersey.

 

I'INGER'I'IP ‘
-   TREASURY -

of 5,000 program themes.
activities, educational
tips, interest getters.
Covers all recreation

Physical Fitness of Children

Sirs:

For twenty-live years the Eastchester
(New York) Recreation Commission
has been running the Eastchester Rec-
reation Decathlon Olympic Champion-
ships, which have drawn many hun-
dreds of children. Sports Illustrated
magazine for August 15, 1955 had an
article on a problem which is perplex-
ing the President of the United States.
It was on the uniitness of American
children. Sports Illustrated then went
out and took pictures of the Eastchester
Decathlon Championships. The pic-
tures [on page 17 of their August 22
issue] showed boys chinning the bar,
and told the nation that here is Ameri-
can youth keeping iit on Eastchester
playgrounds.

VINCENT D. BELLEW, Superintendent

of Recreation, Recreation Commis-

sion, Tuckahoe, New York.

fields, all ages.

 The Program Encylopedia : t
i  ‘ Clement A. Duran ;_ 

- $7.95 at your bookstore or

ASSOCIATION PRESS
; 291 Broadway, N. Y. C. 7

 

? QUANTITY DISCOUNTS
ER suppurs

\

    
    

Complete supplies
leather. books,
tools. 60 locations
coast-to-coast
guarantee faster
serviceatlower

cost. Day Camp Article Aids in

E Write For New Leathercraft Staff Tralnlng
WE-

. 9 Catalog No. 78. Sirs;
'|' A H I) Y |_ E A 'I' H E R G 0 . The article “Day Camp Program for
P. 0. Box 79l-PL. Ft. Worth, Tex. l ‘Why-Daddies’ ” [RECREATION, May

NOVEMBER 1955

apist, The Baltimore Hearing Society, ‘

 

 

 

""“"w..‘.+.t.. the craft——

you are teaching: woodworking, model
building, Ieother, metal, plastics, ceramics

x-acto knives,
tools 8. sets

designed by craftsmen and precisiOn-mode
for fine craftsmanship

will help you
do a better job

by helping your students get better results
and more creative sotisfaction.

Send for 16 page booklet “Helpful
Hints” on use of modeling tools—FREE.

Complete X-ocfo 28 page cotalog—FREE

   

I No. 77

X-ACTO

gm“, . toms (ARVth SE'l
nmorcnn tons —$3,6o ,.
X-AClO, Inc,

48-99 Van Dam St., long Island City 1, N. Y.

NE‘V ALL-ADIEIIICAN

PICNIC GRILL

 

It’s tops in grills! Positive six-way dratt
control provides faster, easier [ire kin-
dling, saves fuel, guarantees tenderer,

' juicier charcoaled steaks, chops and bar-

becues. American’s many plus-features
assure perfect lifetime performance.

Stripped fully assembled.

    
     

STATIONARY P0 RTA B LE

Weight 160 lbs. Weight 185 lbs.
CORIPLETE CORIPLETE
$3575 42.5.

PATENTS

Order Your Alt-American Grill TODAY!

ARIEBICAN

PLAYGBOI'ND DEVICE C0.
ANDERSON, INDIANA

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 407

W FOLDING BANQUET TABLES

   

 

 
  

If you are on the board of your school or
church, or on the house or purchasmg .corn-
mittee of your club or lodge, you W111 be inter-
ested in this modern, Folding Pedestal “Banquet
Table. Write for catalog & specml discounts.

"'rhrtuomror COMPANY 18] CHURCH ST. comx IOWA

  
 

 

The Only Net

GUARANTEED
for 3 YEARS l

outdoors or indoors 0 Send for Free Catalog

JAEFRO ATHLETIC SUPPLY C0.
Dept R, Box 1065, NEW LONDON. CONN.

 

SEEKING
WHOLESOME

C C 

I GENTLEMEN: Please send us your
I complete catalog of DISNEY TITLES

lam. n 11:

 

 

     

   
 

1955], by Melvin J. Rebholz, is a dandy.

It stresses very ably the importance of
integrating nature and campcrafts into
the total day camping program.

At the Henry Kaufmann Campgrounds,
which is a multi-agency day camp facil-
ity, we have done this very successfully
by engaging a nature and campcraft
specialist whose primary responsibility
is to motivate and develop among the
day camp counselor staff a genuine
“feeling” and interest in nature lore and
outdoor living.

I am using this article for our pre-

camp staff training and orientation, as -

it is geared in the direction in which we
have been moving our day camp pro-
grams—to wit: “Day camps should of-
fer definite out-door experience, nature
and campcraft activities, and not a mere
repetition of the city playground pro-
grams.” ‘

MONTE MELAMED, Executive Direc-

tor, Henry Kaufmann Campgrounds,
New York.

Artificial Ice Rinks
Sirs:

George D. Butler is to be compli-
mented on his article, “Outdoor Arti-
ficial Ice Skating Rinks,” in the Octo-
ber issue of RECREATION. However, on
reading this article I have found some
important information on ice rinks
lacking, which I believe should be
brought to the attention of your read-
ers.
I would like to submit the following
in the form of a contribution to Mr.
Butler’s article. Where he speaks of the
piping for the permanent, all-purpose
floor, I would like to add: Supply and
return headers can be placed in a trench
running through the center of the rink.
The trench may be at one side of the
door in which both feed and return
headers are at one side, or the supply
headers can be placed in a trench at one
side of the rink with return headers at
the opposite side, depending upon de-
sign requirements.

This Hoor can be laid on sand, or on
insulation, depending on changeover
requirements due to diversified activi-
ties.

In Mr. Butler’s article he mentioned:
“One disadvantage in this type of con-
struction is the difhculty in repairing a
leak, crack, or other deterioration
which might occur within the slab.”
However, when the floor pipes in the
permanent “Monolithic Concrete Float-
ing” slab are connected to manifolds
with disconnect fittings, preventative
maintenance is facilitated and mainte-

 

It took _4_5_ centuries,
but here it is

CHESS. CHECKERS FOR 4. 3 0R 2 PLAYERS!

   
 

|.
f
’.

d
b

   

 
  
 

‘
F
5
‘ n
‘r

a
“It
‘
15
'P

 

J
L
A
s

  
   
  

a?


    
     

“7's
Jh
in}

a

  

l

   

‘3

Time was when checkers was a kibitzer’s
delight. Now the kibitzers have a chance to
show what they can do, join in the game.
become a player with two or three others.
Rules are the same, plays are the same. but
it’s faster paced (game takes 5 to 30 min-
utes) more exciting for everyone 8 to 80.

Thanks to Yuri Gee, internationally famous
artist and inventor, YOU can now play

CHESS and CHECKERS for 2, 3 or 4
players.

ON THE

CHESS AND CHECKER BOARD

Use of standard rules

made possible ONLY by
TRI-KING’S

Ingenious 9 Diamond 6 Bridge

Cross in One Move—Either Straight
or Diagonally

 

For Chess, the unique center
detour aligns different sets of
kings and queens correctly.

RULES PLAINLY EXPLAINING INCLUDED.
WITH EACH SET

Chess. Checker Board with
plastic checkers in 4 colors .... .. 

Chess; Checker Board with plastic

checkers and chess men in
4 colors ...................................... .. 

Delux edition with Checker. Chess Board.
plastic checkers and weighted
chess men in 4 colors .............. .. 

(Add 5°C for postage west of Mississippi.)

Order this strikingly beautiful
board in its golden box

I and address of our nearest film library. | nance costs are minimized. NOW
I NAME————————— | One of the advantages of this system
IORGANIZATION I in which the pipes are completely im-  _   
I ADDRESS _ I bedded in concrete is that external pipe 51 E i 10 S! ' N York; N Y
I cm STATE a : l corrosion is ellminated 1f care 18 taken 35 fee 9‘" r ' '
—— —————————— —-:—-——- to provide a good bond between the

408 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. RECREATION

concrete and the pipes. A floor design
of this type installed in Rockefeller
Center in New York City has been in
operation for sixteen years without
floor repairs.

Mr. Butler stated further, “Studies
have shown practically no corrosion in
rinks with direct expansion refrigera-
tion.” The major source of trouble
with some rink floors was found to be
due to external pipe corrosion. With a
properly designed permanent, all-pur-
pose rink floor, such as designed by M.
R. Carpenter, external pipe corrosion
has been eliminated. Mr. Butler no
doubt refers to internal pipe corrosion.

MRS. M. R. CARPENTER, 1560 Ansel
Road, Number 9, Cleveland 6, Ohio.

Recreation and Adult Education
Editorial

Sirs:

I have just returned from India and
have now had a chance to read some of
the publications I missed during the
past year.

I have read the editorial by Malcolm
Knowles on recreation and adult edu-
cation in the February issue of RECREA-
TION. I want to go on record as whole-
heartedly supporting Mr. Knowles’ con-
cept of the similarities of these two
fields and the belief that recreation at
its best should be achieving the same
objectives as adult education—udevelop-
ing emotionally mature and effective
citizens through the use of recreation.

H. D. EDGREN, Professor of Educa-

tion, George Williams College, Chi-

cago 15, Illinois.

OUTDOOR SWIMMING POOLS

by George D. Butler

This very pOpular, compact
booklet of the series of articles
which appeared in the January,

February, March, and April 1955

issues of RECREATION is once more
available (Second Printing).

75 cents

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
8 West Eighth Street, New York 11, N. Y.

Change of Address

If you are planning to move, notify us
at least thirty days before the date of
the issue with which it is to take effect,
if possible, in order to receive your

magazines without interruption. Send
both your old and new addresses by let-
ter, card or post oliice form 228 to:
Subscription Department RECREATION
Magazine, 8 West Eighth Street, New
York 11, N. Y.

NOVEMBER 1955

 

      

Introducing

A NEW YARN

JUTA-CORD

IN MAGNIFICENT COLORS!

Juta-Cord is an ideal medium for handweaving, rug-hooking,
crocheting, string construction room dividers, wall hangings and

other decorating uses.

Exclusive with us in the U. S. . . . a yarn

of imported, selected-fibre Jute.

Juta-Cord in 16 glowing colors .
easy to work with.

. . fresh and modern in texture,

20/2 Jute Yarn, TSO-yds. V2 lb. spools $1.25 ea. postage included.

KELBAR SAlES. INC.

Send 10¢ in coin or stamps for color card.

P. O. Box 1685, Grand Central Station, New York 17, New York

MORE THAN

100,000

U. S. SCHOOLS AND COLLEGES EACH YEAR SPECIFY

America’s Finest Sports Equipment by

 
      

SQUARE
DANCE
ASSOCIATES

proudly

pmeut

and Toe Polka . . .

NEW YORK 11

    

DANVILLE, ILL. - LOS ANGELES 11

 

Two all NEW

Recorded Teaching Aids

by ED DURLAOHER

Couple Dances and Mixers (olburn 9)

"Talk-through,- walk-through” progressive instructions for the Waltz, Vorsouvienne and Heel

RONOR ‘IO OR PARTNER

on three records. Plus music for the three dances on the fourth record.

Play Party Games, Singing Games and Folk Dances
(album IO)

Paw Paw Patch, Jolly is the Miller, Looby Lou, Eagle Dance, La Raspa, Scebogar, Chimes of
. "talk-through; walk-through" progressive instructions plus the
incomparable music of The Top Hands. Four records.

Dunkirk, and Crested Hen . .

i
I
Over 10,000 '

schools in the 0.3.
now use Honor Your Partner

Teaching Aids.

"Talk-through; Walk-through"

-the most ellective
.dance instruction method
on records.

Name

Address

Mail coupon for  brochure on all Honor Your Partner Teaching Aids

SQUARE DANCE ASSOCIATES
P. O. Box 644, Freepart, N. Y.

Gentlemen: Please send me free brochure of Honor Your Partner
Teaching Aids, including the new albums 9 and TO.

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

, “I
y .

I. 

Hint  

    
 

    
       

   

'- .
1i HEN! IlHlllL-

mummu Ill mi

A sketch of the Ridgefield Community Center as it appears today.
The building is set in spacious community park.

An 01d House Comes to Li 0

A story, of the two-year creation of a com-
munity center, which offers suggestions
for others based on interesting experience.

IN TWO short years, a miracle has happened on Main Street
in Ridgelield, Connecticut. The volunteer efforts of citi-
zens have transformed the cold skeleton of an old building
into a warm, friendly community center. The Lounsbury
House, a twenty-eight-room, four-story mansion built by a
former governor of Connecticut in 1895, stood empty in the
center of Veterans’ Memorial Park for more than ten years.
The town fathers, owners of the property, considered con-
verting it into a town hall, but gave up this idea. Many
leaders, in disgust, advocated that the beautiful old struc-
ture be torn down. However, others had visions of a broad
cultural and educational center for the use of all citizens.

In January, 1953, a small group of these men and women
began informal meetings to explore the possibilities of con-
verting the venerable mansion into a community center.
They organized a comprehensive survey by which 203 fami-
lies were interviewed on a random area basis, in every sector
of town, urban and rural. Three simple questions were
asked:

1. Do you want a community center for Ridgelield?
( More than ninety-four per cent said, “Yes.”)

DR. MARVIN RIPE, until recently the director of camping and
research for the Herald Tribune Fresh Air Fund in New
York, is now associate professor in the College of Arts and
Sciences, University of Rhode Island. For the past two
years he has been a member of the board of directors and
chairman of the program committee for the Ridgefield
Community Center.

410

I‘Iarvin Rife

2. Do you favor renovating the Lounsbury House for
use as a community center? (Over sixty-seven per cent an-
swered affirmatively.)

3. Would you be willing to support such renovation and
assist with operating costs for the center? (More than fifty
per cent said, “Yes.”)

These encouraging results stimulated the volunteer com-
mittees to move forward and to form the Ridgefield Vet-
erans’ Memorial Community Association, an organization
which included representatives "from every sector of the
town. They made a thorough study of the requirements for
the renovation and consulted town officials, engineers, archi-
tects, and others for expert advice on all phases of the proj-
ect. Then, early in September, they called a town meeting
in the high-school auditorium.

More than five hundred citizens attended and voted almost
unanimously for the project. Town officials were empow-
ered to lease the house to the newly incorporated association
for twenty-five years, at a dollar a year, with the under-
standing that the cost of renovation and operation would
be borne entirely by voluntary contributions and other non-
tax revenues.

In November, 1953, a fifteen-member board of directors
for the new association was selected from among the incor-
porators. Executive officers were elected by the board and
working committees were formed.

The building committee held many meetings to deter-
mine in detail the needs for renovation and the costs in-
volved. In cooperation with the finance committee, a pro-

RECREATION

Idb'.- ——

spectus was drawn up, printed, and sent to every householder
in Ridgefield, telling the story of the project in simple,
direct terms. This four-page folder presented sketches of the
ground, first, and second floor plans of the house, together
with cost estimates for renovation as follows: _‘

 

Installing new heating plant ...................................... ..$ 7,500
Painting exterior of building ........................................ .. 6,500
Renovating kitchen ........................................................ .. 5,000
Installing fire escapes .................................................... .. 1,000
Interior painting and decoration .................................. .. 5,000
Furnishings .................................................................... .. 5,000
Carpentry work .............................................................. .. 5,000
Plumbing ........................................................................ .. 3,000
Electrical work .............................................................. .. 2,000

TOTAL AMOUNT NEEDED .................................... ..$40,000

By December, advance gifts of about $14,000 enabled
the association to proceed with high priority, exterior re-

pairs and the letting of contracts for the heating plant and
necessary plumbing. The first coat of white paint went on
the outside of the building late in May, and on Memorial
Day, 1954, an “Open House” attracted a large number of
people to view how much had been done on the interior.
Slowly, but surely, the old mansion was being transformed,
and early skeptics of the project began to express approval.

In June, 1954, the personnel committee received refer-
ences, from the National Recreation Association Personnel
Services, of professional recreation leaders wishing to ap-
ply for the position of executive director of the center, a
full-time, year-round position. A starting salary of $4,000
had been established by the finance committee in its tenta-
tive budget of $16,000 for the annual operation of program
and facilities. George Fasolo, a qualified recreation leader
who had directed a center program for children of American
personnel in occupied Germany, was engaged and began his
duties early in August.

, The board of directors was now able to move forward
more quickly. The first big project was the establishment of
the teen-age canteen on the ground floor of the center. A
governing board of high-school young people, with adult
advisors, managed the equipping of the canteen with a snack
bar, dance floor with juke box, game room with billiards
and table tennis, and a Spacious, attractive lounge. The
canteen is open weekday afternoons and weekend days and
evenings, under adult supervision, with a varied program.
Membership charges are $3.00 per semester.

The membership committee launched its drive for adult
participation in November, 1954. The annual membership
fee is also $3.00, with the provision that all members of the
family are admitted to membership if both parents join.
By February, 1955, about five hundred adults and four hun-

dred children were active members.

The program committee, composed of seventeen volun-
teer members, has been active in “feeling the pulse”.of the
community in terms of individual and group interests. Reg-
ular monthly meetings with the executive director have re-
sulted in a gradual expansion of program services. An
increasing number of organizations had begun to use the
center facilities on a regular basis.

The Toy Clinic, a non-profit service organization using
volunteer help, renovates toys, games, and other play ma-

NOVEMBER 1955

terials for children’s institutions and hospitals in Connecti-
cut. Two rooms on the third floor have been given to it for
use, free, for its philanthropic program. The Ridgefield Girl
Scouts hold all troop and leader meetings on the second
floor, for the use of which they pay a modest monthly rental.
The District Council of Boy Scouts leases three rooms on
the second floor as headquarters. The local Rifle and Re-
volver Club, with senior and junior members, has its meet-
ing room and shooting gallery in a remote, safe section of
the ground floor.

Among the other community groups holding regular or
special meetings in the center are the Sunshine Society, Well

Child Clinic, District Nursing Association, Caudatowa Gar-

den Club, Ridgefield Garden Club, Thrift Sh0p Committee,
4-H Club, League of Women Voters, and the National As-
sociation for the Advancement of Colored People.
However, the major dynamic phase of the program con-
sists of a variety and range of activities sponsored by the
center itself, under the leadership of volunteer or part-time
paid leaders from the Ridgefield area. The February 1955
Calendar of Events, mimeographed monthly and mailed to
every member, gives a typical picture of services. ..

Activities for Children

1. Adventures in Art—Informal drawing and painting for children
six to ten years of age, alternate Saturday mornings.

2. Art Class—Formal instruction in painting for children eight to
fifteen years of age, every Saturday morning.

3. Children’s Ballet—Instructions for groups, every Saturday morn-
ing. Private lessons by appointment.

4. Children’s Theatre—Instructions and practice in drama, every
Monday afternoon. Productions are being planned.

5. French—Children’s French classes, Tuesday afternoons. Free
to members. ‘

6. Dancing Class—Monthly instruction and dance for boys and
girls, every fourth Friday.

7. Little League Basketball—For boys, played Sunday afternoons
in the high-school gymnasium, sponsored by the center.

Activities for Adults

1. Art Classes—Instructions for adults, Thursday evenings.

2. Ballet—Instructions Monday and Tuesday mornings. Private
lessons by appointment.

3. Ballroom Dancing———lnstruction, Wednesday nights.

Adult photography class listens to talk and demonstra-
tion on composition. Center has its own darkroom and
equipment for developing, printing, and enlarging. In-
struction is offered beginners and advanced students.

' N t r I t ~ 1*

t

 

M

Lu. J .. v_~‘,.,_c_.... Hm

“Adventures in Art” class, on Saturday mornings, at-
tracts about twenty-five youngsters between ages of
six and ten. Volunteer instructor, who teaches college
courses in arts and crafts, encourages group discussion.

4. Ceramics—Classes in the ceramics studio, Monday, Wednesday,
and Friday evenings.

5. French Classes——For beginning, intermediate, and advanced
students, two evenings a week. Free to members.

6. Golf Instruction—Individualized, for men and women at the
golf range on third door, three evenings a week. Private lessons by
appointment.

7. Photography—Instruction and practice Tuesday nights in the
photography studio.

8. Theatre Guild—Adult group meets every Thursday night. Guild
is planning a spring production.

9. Ski Club—Arrangements made with interested persons for ski
trips and outings on Week-ends.

10. Educational Movies-Regularly scheduled and special films,
Thursday nights. Free to members.

Modest instructional fees are charged for most of the
above activities, from which a portion is paid to the in-
structors and the balance retained by the center to help with
operating cost.

The publicity committee, active since the inception of the
center, gives approved information to the local press and
radio. The Ridgefield Press, an outstanding weekly news-
paper, carries a regular section under a sketch of the center,
announcing the weekly calendar of events and important
news. Station WLAD, Danbury, has cooperated in giving
time for announcements of special events.

The special-gifts committee has performed a valuable two-
fold function. First, it has spearheaded large advance gifts
from donors, both for the renovation drive and for oper-
ating budget support. Second, it reviews and receives dona-
tions of tables, lamps, carpets, chairs, office equipment, and
other necessary articles. Many generous gifts have helped
to give the bare rooms a warm, hospitable atmosphere.

The largest and most active group is the house commit-
tee, made up entirely of women. It is divided into three
sub-committees — hospitality, kitchen, and maintenance,
These three sub-groups work closely with the executive di-
rector to see that patrons are accorded the social amenities,
that kitchen facilities and services are adequate and efii~
cient and that the house is kept clean and attractive at all
times. House rules have been established and printed by
the board of directors for the guidance of all individuals
and groups using the building.

412

 

The gracious open door of the Ridgeiield Community
Center expresses a warm welcome and invites active
participation by everyone in the Connecticut commu-
nity. Here it is used for the annual garden club show.

Why Has the Center Been a Success?

Miracles do not just happen. Behind the almost phenom-
enal progress of the Ridgefield Community Center in its first
active year lie a number of important factors in planning,
organization, and execution. These basic elements in a suc-
cessful program are indicated below for consideration by
other community groups wishing to establish and operate
a similar community service.

1. Good old hard work. A solid core of devoted volun-
teers were willing from the outset to study and labor to-
gether on the over-all project. Board and committee mem-
bers as well as other volunteer leaders continue to give un-
told hours of service to every phase of the operation. “Let
George do it” is not in their vocabulary.

2. Thorough and accurate records. From the beginning,
complete minutes of meetings, records of business transac-
tions and important decisions have been kept by the secre-
tary of the board of directors. Also, a pictorial review of
events and. activities as well as newspaper clippings have
been maintained by a designated. “historian” in yearly
scrap books.

3. Competent leadership. All legal and business matters
pertaining to incorporation, letting of contracts, insurance,
committee organizations, selection of personnel have been
handled by qualified persons. For example, a certified pub-
lic accountant volunteers his services for auditing the ac-
counts of the association and guiding the setting up of a
bookkeeping system.

4. Response to public need. The pulse of the community
has been kept at every stage of the formulation and execu-
tion of plans. The initial survey of individual responses and
the study of community group interest in the use of the
center are examples of methods used to reflect as accurately
as possible the real sentiments of people about services
wanted.

5. Public relations. There has been continuous and con-
sistent communication to the people regarding the project.
Monthly program calendars go to every member, weekly
news items about center activities appear in the press; and

RECREATION

word of mouth enthusiasm from satisfied patrons lend im-
petus to expansion of services.

6. Rotation of leadership. Provision is made in the con-
stitution for yearly turn-over of personnel in the board of
directors. Mem‘bers serve for three-year terms. and are not
eligible for re-election. Every year, one-third, or five, mem-
bers are newly elected. This insures a constant flow of “new
blood” into top leadership.

7. Regularity of meetings. Monthly meetings of the board
enable the association to keep abreast of new developments
and to handle matters of policy. Important issues or prob-
lems needing executive action on a daily or a weekly basis
are handled more directly by the executive director in close
consultation with committee chairmen and officers of the
board.

8. Central ofice epiciency. The center’s oflice is the
“nerve focus” of the program. Daily routines of receiving
new members, acknowledging gifts, meeting eXpanding
program needs are handled promptly by the executive di-
rector and a part-time secretary.

9. Flexibility of program. The entire range of activities
has been created in response to felt needs and demands from
the community. Exploration of new areas of service are
also contingent upon the degree of interest shown by the
pe0ple.

10. Inclusive nature of services. Everyone in the town
is invited to participate. Groups from every section and
every social strata are included in the roster of members.

11. Practice of economy. It has become evident that the
center cannot be completely self-supporting for some time
to come. Therefore, all unessential expenditures are avoid-
ed and donations of needed supplies, equipment, and other
items are encouraged. Labor groups in town, for instance,
donated some of the work done at the center. '

A Look to the Future

Plans for the immediate future include the setting up of
a community forum. The first forum meeting was held in
April, on “Town Planning,” and was sponsored by the
League of Women Voters. A summer day camp for children
seven to eleven years of age is on the agenda, to be spon'
sored and operated by the center in the adjacent Memorial
Park. In the fall, it is hoped that many new courses in adult
education will be added.

Ridgefield is no longer made up of landed gentry. A
“new element” of solid, middle-class business and profes-
sional people has been added in the past decade. They
demand increased cultural and educational advantages for
themselves and their children. It is hoped that the center
will help progressively to meet these needs.

NOVEMBER 1955

 

THANKSGIVING DAYi‘ ‘ 557'

Today, one hundred and thirty million Ameri-

cans keep the day they first set apart. We all know
what Thanksgiving is: A Day of Thanks—It’s
Turkey Day and Pumpkin Pie Day—the day of the
meeting of friends and the gathering of families.
It does not belong to any one creed or stock among
us; it does not honor any one great man. It is the
whole family’s day—the whole people’s day—the
day at the turn of the year when we can all get to-
gether, think over the past months a little, feel a
sense of harvest, a kinship with our land. It is one
of the most secure and friendly of all our feasts,
and yet it was first founded in insecurity, by men
who stood up to danger. And that spirit is still
alive today. . . . The Democracy we cherish is the
work of many years and many men. But as those
first men and women first gave thanks, in a dark
hour, for the corn that meant life to them, so let
us give thanks today n0t for the little things of the
easy years, but for the land we cherish, the way of

life we honor, and the freedom we shall maintain.
—STEPHEN VINCENT BENET.*

 

 

*From We Stand United and Other Radio Scripts by

Stephen Vincent Benet, Rinehart & Company, Copyright,
1944, by Rosemary Carr Benet.

 

The Social Group Worker

Gertrude Wilson

ONE OF THE active social movements of the first half of
this century has been the change of public attitude
from regarding “recreation” as a frill—something nice'but
not essential—to its present status, fast moving into a posi-
.tion of a public essential for every community. It is taking
its position in local government along with the waterworks,
fire and police protection, health program, schools, family
and child welfare departments, other municipal bureaus
and commissions. Many social factors have contributed to
this change, all of which may be summarized as the applica-
tion of research in the physical, social, and biological sci-
ences, which have brought automation with increased lei-
sure time and greatly increased knowledge of the social
needs of human beings.

During this half century many new and different methods
of giving services have been developed, all aimed either to
help people improve their chances for happiness or to recover
from crippling experiences or illnesses. Many of these serv-
ices are based, at least partially, on the proposition that a
happy or socially well-adjusted person is one whose mem-
berships in groups give him a sense of belonging and of
self-esteem. The social group work method is one of such
serv1ces.

During the 19th century, while the sociologists were con-
verting their observations of man and society into social
theories, the humanitarians were organizing activities aimed
to help people in distress. To many of the early humani-
tarians the relationship between cause and effect was im-
mediate. They looked into the environment and found poor
housing, poverty, ignorance, and idleness (unemployment).
These factors were real and offered sufficient challenge for
several generations of socially conscious people. While res-
idue of these problems are still with us, they do not represent
the major problems in the-United States. Instead we have
national recognition of the mental health of our people as
the number one problem of today.

In the third decade of this century, several committees
of people related to various programs concerned with offer-
ing leisure-time activities undertook to study the contribu-
tion which membership in a group makes to character build-
ing of the individual. Almost simultaneously such com-
mittees were organized in Cleveland, New York City, and
Chicago. Sociological theory was the common background
of the members of these committees. The discussions also
reveal a dominant influence of John Dewey’s principles of

 

CERTRUDE WILSON is a well-known leader in the social group
work nelcl and professor at the School of Social Welfare,
University of California.

414

Explaining this method of work as applied to the
recreation field.

learning and teaching and of Freudian and other psycho-
logical concepts applied to understanding human behavior
in general and the role of the worker in particular. The in-
troduction of a sequence of courses to prepare workers for
recreation and informal education agencies at Western Re-
serve University, where the term “group work” (coined to
distinguish it from courses in case work) was first used,
evolved into social group work as a method of helping the
individual member of a group. Since 1926,, twenty-four
schools of social work have introduced a social group work
sequence into their curriculum.

The method of social group work, thus from the begin-
ning, has been postulated on these assumptions: (1) that
a sense of belonging is essential to the happiness of all
human beings; (2) that certain life experiences and social
situations interfere or deny to many individuals the oppor-
tunity to have this sense of well-being; (3) that the welfare
of society is dependent upon the nature of the interacting
process of its many small groups; and (4) that personnel,
with sufficient understanding of the interacting processes in
groups and of the divergent manifestations of human needs
on the part of individuals, can be educated to help people
secure a sense of belonging and to help groups achieve pur-
poses of value to society, through prolonged field work ex-
perience with groups guided by a skillful practitioner. The
media through which the 'social group worker helps people
[0 relate to one another is any activity which the members of
the group may choose.

The term “social group work” describes a method of work
with people. It does not adequately describe an agency,
a section or part of a welfare council, or even a part of a
given agency. The term is legitimately used to describe
personnel prepared to use this method when the major re-
sponsibility of the worker is that of working with groups.
It must be noted, however, that all social group workers use
other methods in the performance of their total job descrip-
tion since they also carry responsibilities for administra-
tion, supervision, teaching, and sometimes clerical func-
tions.

It is unfortunate for all concerned that the social group
work method has become so closely identified with agencies
supported by Community Chests and the United Crusades.
The social group work method has much to offer to all peo-
ple in need of slight or great help in identifying with groups,
whether they congregate in settlements, youth organizations,
public recreation centers, hospitals, churches, or other or-
ganizational settings.

Public recreation and park departments are increasingly
carrying the major responsibility of securing land and the

RECREATION

in PUBLIC RECREATION I

provision and maintenance of recreation facilities for the
use of the general public. Not just parks as objects of beau-
ty, but parks with facilities for picnics, over-night camping,
sports, games, and all manner of recreation activities.
Maintenance, moreover, has moved slowly from protection
of “property” to protection of “people”————thus the advent
of swimming guards, naturalists, and other personnel.

Provision of facilities, their maintenance, and the protec-
tion of property and lives of their users, however, has proven
to be insufficient. More and more it is realized that large
numbers of people do not know how to use these facilities.
Personnel have been employed to teach a great variety of
recreation activities,1 sports, games, arts and crafts, dra-
matics, music, nature lore, and many others.

Informal education provided by these teachers is a valu-
able and sufficient contribution to large numbers in the pop-
ulation who have already made satisfactory social adjust-
ment both within their own families and other social group-
ings. To this part of the population, classes in recreation

centers contribute enrichment of old interests and develop-

ment of new ones which, although immeasurable, undoubt-
edly prevent many social and emotional maladjustments.

There are, however, many others of our population who
are unable to make constructive use of such “come and get
it” forms of recreation instruction. For a variety of reasons
————some cultural, such as social class, race, and nationality;
some emotional immaturity; and all a combination of many
reasons—a smaller but sizeable proportion of the popula-
tion can use the recreation facilities only with more individ-
ualization than teaching service, no matter how informal,
can provide. People needing this service do not necessarily
stay away from the recreation center, they frequently are
among the most regular attendants. Their behavior is such
that they disrupt the regular activities and tend eventually
to drive the better adjusted patrons from the center. Thus,
even if it were the desire of the community to serve only
those who have the capacity to use the recreation facilities,
the staff is frequently confronted with more people without

0 0 0 O

     

such capacities than with them. Many communities, more-
over, not only have set up the facilities for everyone to use
but also demand, on the one hand, that they be available
without disturbance from the so called “rough” element
and, on the other hand, insist that the recreation department
do something constructive about the disturbing people.

It is clear that there are at least four distinct but inter-

{“Recreation activities” is used throughout this paper to Cover any
a‘ctmty chosen by a person to do in time when he is not engaged in
employed activmty.”

NOVEMBER 1955

dependent functions (each having many facets) to be per-
formed within a recreation and parks department: (1) pro-
viding land and facilities, (2) teaching skill to use the facili-
tiesz, (3) helping the socially retarded (whatever the cause)
to participate either in groups of their own choosing or in
groups established by the department, and (4) providing
recreation services for the larger groups which often rep-
resent ninety per cent of the local people.

In the performance of these functions knowledge and

 

skills from many professions are needed. The first is closely
related to business administration, city planning, architec-
ture, landscape planning and technical knowledge of phy-
sical lay-out for sports and game fields, recreation build-
ings, community centers, facilities for cultural activities,
performed in close cooperation with landscape architects,
layout specialists and other professional planners, and with
special attention to designs to serve the recreation function.

The second function is performed by teachers with skills
in arts and crafts, sports and games, music, dramatics, and
other recreation activities with perhaps a specialty in some.
(Training is usually secured in schools of education and in
courses in various college departments.) The third requires
an especial skill in helping individuals make most effective
use of groups and in helping groups to achieve socially de-
sirable purposes. (Preparation for this function is usually
secured in schools of social work which have specializations
in social group work.) The fourth requires basic education
in the know-how of municipal recreation leadership. (This
is being offered as a major course in many colleges today.)

Personnel with assignments in each of these functions
need some of the knowledge and skill required by those per-
forming the other functions. Each person, however, cannot
be an‘ expert in all‘ the facets of knowledge and skill required
by a recreation and park department. The recreation de-
partment in our larger cities is as much a multi-discipline
setting as is a hospital. Members of many disciplines can
be used effectively within such a department. There is a
place for city planners, recreation leaders, teachers, phy-
sicians, nurses, dieticians, artists, physical educators, social
group workers, and other specialists, upon the staff of a
large recreation department. In the small department the
recreation worker or workers must necessarily fulfill more
roles with less specialization. Job descriptions. and classifi-
cations made accordingly will respect the professional back-
ground of each worker and will thus avoid forcing each spe-

2 For simplification, all special events, tournaments, and so forth,
which usually are culmination of teaching, have been included under

“teaching skills.”

415

cialization into a common mold through the use of an over-all
term such as “recreationalist.” Few departments, however,
through either job descriptions or content of civil service
examinations, define the place of representatives of these
various disciplines. _

Many recreation and informal education agencies, wheth-
er supported by tax dollars, through United Crusades, or
by private funds, need a thorough-going organizational
overhauling related to the variety of purposes for which
the facilities and services are intended and to the profes-
sional skills required'to supply them. Programs should
be planned on the basis of anticipated needs of the patrons
to be served. Personnel equipped to meet these needs should
be assigned to groups in accordance to the members’ in-
terests and problems. Regular evaluations should be made
of the progress of groups in their various activities based
on criteria developed at the time of their establishment.

Failure to organize program on the basis of the ability
of patrons to participate does not mean that by so doing
the department eliminates the people with problems from
their clientele. The following list of problems are culled
from many submitted by personnel employed in recreation
and informal education agencies. Seventy-five per cent of
the workers are in public recreation. The agencies cover
widely separated geographic areas.

What does a worker do when:

0 'Activity is over and girls and boys go off on “necking”
parties?

0 A youngster says, “I’ve broken a serious law. I don’t
know what to do about it”?

o A boy is using narcotics?

o A boy says that his father won’t let him come to the
center because he doesn’t think it is a good place to be?

0 A person with a fairly serious physical or social handi-
cap wishes to join a “normal” group?

0 He is confronted with a member of a group whose
problems seem to be outside the scope of the agency’s
service?

0 He is responsible for working with a fairly large group
and one or two individuals get “into trouble,” and both the
group and the individuals need his entire attention at that
time?

o A group gives evidence that its chief motivation in its
activities is to win at any cost?

If the worker confronted with any of these problems were
the only worker on the playground, what could he do?

If the worker were one who is working part-time to earn
his way through college what service could be eXpected from
him?

If the worker were an expert (in any one of the special-
ties), coach, or teacher what could he be expected to do?

If the worker were any of the above but there were one
or more social group workers on the staff what could the
patron with a problem expect?

Now the implication of the above questions is not that
the social group worker is the only professional in a recrea-
tion setting who can handle personal and group behavior
problems. There are many such problems handled by rec-

416

reation workers with other educational backgrounds. Be-
cause they are not, however, specifically trained in social
work their ability to handle them is a “plus” to the content
they have been prepared to teach. The social group worker
is, however, specifically prepared to work with pe0ple with
such problems and to give consultation to others on the
team in regard to patrons with problems. This is his special-
ty and recreational content is his “plus.” Both are needed
in the provision of recreation services. Team work between
specialists provides a place for both program specialists and
the social group worker.

The program specialists (teachers or leaders) and the
social group worker need to have a common knowledge of
the physical, emotional, and intellectual growth and develop-
ment of human beings throughout the life cycle. Both need
knowledge of program content and its meaning to different
people. Both need knowledge of the community, its needs
and resources. Both need to have skill in working with each
other and with people in the community. But the program
specialist is an expert in general program with, perhaps,
specialized skills in some specihc activities, and in teaching
them, while the social group worker is a specialist in diag-
nosis of the social adjustment of people and in helping them
either to use the activities of the agency in meeting their
problems or to use the services of other agencies in the com-
munity to this end.

This differentiation between the functions of social group
workers and other workers in recreation and informal edu-
cation agencies is the same whether the agency is supported
and organized by public or private auspices. While more
social group workers are employed in privately supported
agencies than in public ones, there are more opportunities
for social group work service in public recreation agencies
because these agencies are both larger and more numerous.

Preparation for the practice of social group work requires
two graduate years following a college major in the social
and psychological sciences. The expense and length of the
period for professional education tends to keep the number
of social group workers very small. For this reason it has
not been possible to staff a sufficient number of places where
the differentiation described above could be widely recog-
nized. Marvin Green3 describes a sharing of responsibility
in the public recreation program of the New York City
Board of Education in which program there are twenty-
two graduate social group workers, two of whom are super-
visors and twenty giving direct service to groups.

Work with any group for any purpose involves intelligent
use of the social processes but the social group work method
is a specialized one in which the diagnosed needs of the
individuals give guidance to the worker who is helping the
group to achieve purposes in line with the needs of its mem-
bers, with a dividend to society.

Recreation and park departments will find that with or-
ganization for the assignment of social group workers to
functions apprOpriate to their professional preparation, and
with the use of social gI‘OUp work methods, the total service
of these departments will be improved.

3 The Group, V. 16, no. 2 (December, 1953), p. 15.

RECREATION

State Inter-Agency Committees

Confer in Virginia

“It is important for every state to have
an inter-agency group to study unmet rec-
reation needs.”——Joseph Prendergast.

ACONFERENCE to exchange information and experiences of
state inter-agency committees and to develop, if pos-
sible, some principles relating to them, was held at the invita-
tion of the Virginia Inter-Agency Committee on Recreation
early this summer at Luray, Virginia. In addition to Vir-

ginia, the states of Michigan, Missouri, New York, and North'

Carolina were represented by thirty-five delegates. All state
inter-agency committees were invited to send delegates, and
invitations were also extended to state recreation leaders in
all parts of the country.

The Virginia conference was the third such conference.
The first was called in 1953 by the Ohio Inter-Agency Com-
mittee, and in 1954 a similar meeting was held in Michigan
under the sponsorship of the Michigan Inter-Agency Council
for Recreation. Plans are under way for another conference
in 1956, and Paul Landis of Ohio has been appointed chair-
man of the time and place committee.

Dr. Harold Jack, supervisor of health and physical educa-
tion, safety and recreation of Virginia, Joseph Prendergast,
executive director of the National Recreation Association,
and George E. Dickie, executive secretary of the Federal
Inter-Agency Committee on Recreation, were the program
committee and arranged the informal agenda.

All states represented described their functions, projects,
and their inter-agency committee relationships to member
agencies. Mr. Dickie explained the formation and services
of the Federal Inter-Agency Committee, which was estab-
lished in 1946. (See RECREATION, June 1950, for section on
Federal Recreation Services.)

During the conference Julian T. Smith of Michigan de-
veloped the following list of principles for inter-agency
activities. The council or committee: '

1. Channels and refers requests for services to appr0pri-
ate agencies.

2. Develops team operations through a better understand-
ing of functions and services of member agencies.

3. Helps provide state services over and above those com-
munities should provide for themselves.

4. Takes a forward look at state-wide needs for recreation.

5. Activates, and recasts if necessary, state services to
meet present and specific needs.

 

ROBERT R. GAMBLE is the Sta]? representative of the National
Recreation Association responsible for its services to state
agencies concerned with recreation. He is also secretary of
the Association’s National Advisory Committee on State
Recreation. '

NOVEMBER 1955

Robert R. Gamble

6. Serves in an advisory and consultative role to commu-
nities and does not provide technical services that local com-
munities should buy for themselves.

7. Serves as a means for voluntary cooperation by desire
and consent of member agencies.

8. Makes possible a large staff of specialists made up of
personnel from member and cooperating agencies.

9. Brings to focus the recreation services of all local, state
and federal agencies, public and private, as resources to
communltles. ‘_

10. “Sets the stage” for interested recreation groups to
help themselves through in-service training.

11. Gives active support to member agencies in providing
recreation services and in obtaining adequate budgets.

12. Is aware that: (a) to achieve maximum efliciency, the
services of a full- or part-time executive secretary are essen-
tial; (h) each state should design its own cooperative pat-
tern of operation in the light of needs, resources, and struc-
ture of state government; and (c) the pattern of operation
should be flexible and experimental in character in the early
stages of development.

13. Stimulates state-wide, regional, and local planning for
total community needs in providing for adequate recreation
opportunities for all the people.

14. Does not formulate policies of its own in relation to
its member agencies, but rather provides a vehicle for co-
operative action or common problems.

15. Makes the maximum and most economic use of pro-
grams of existing agencies having reSponsibility for rec-
reation.

16.Needs the active leadership of representatives of mem-
ber agencies to “spar ” a sustained effort.

17. Maintains that member agencies should have the
active participation of department heads and the continuous
representation of staff members of these departments.

18. Realizes that it has as resources the Federal Inter-

Agency Committee on Recreation, federal departments, and
national organizations. '

19. Holds as its ultimate purpose the stimulation of ade-
quate state and local programs of recreation.

Mr. Prendergast pointed out that the National Recreation
Association feels that it is important for every- state to have
some kind of inter-agency group meeting, studying unmet
needs in the field of recreation and making plans for meeting
these needs, either by expanding existing agencies or creating
new agencies.

417

 

“The ranch at Chiclin, Peru, covers many square miles, and has a large
playground and playfield, the size of an American football field, at its center. Six
hundred children are among its three thousand inhabitants. Five miles of sugar
canea and thousands of animals are included on the vast and central haciendai‘of
Rafael Larco Herrera, now over eighty years old, who was proposed for the Nobel
Peace Prize because of his inspiring books and wise leadership while vice-presi-
dent of Peru during World War II. A man of great affairs and heavy responsi-

bilities, nevertheless he did not forget to provide play areas.

;-,_“There stands, at one end, a giant statue of Christ with arms outstretched as
if saying, ‘Suffer little children to come unto me. . . .’ They have come. The tots
are playing around the feet of the statue. Christ looks down lovingly upon them.
They are a congenial group—the little ones and the great figure. Teen-agers are
kicking the soccer ball about within sight of the Great Spirit. Once they were
tots. Always their play has been under His gaze. What a warm and friendly way
to grow up!”—-From a letter written by Otto Mallery, chairman of the board of
directors of the NRA, during a trip to South America.

:‘

 

the U.S.A. that it is considered a social

T. E. Rivers Impresses Norwegians
question of first order.”

A clipping from the Oslo, Norway,
newspaper, Verdus Gang, told of an in-

terview with our own T. E. Rivers who
is currently on an international tour
(RECREATION, September 1955). Ap-
parently the interviewer was quite
astounded at the status of recreation as
a profession in this country, for the
opening statement of the article was:
“Mr. Tom Rivers comes with startling
information. One may obtain a doctor’s
degree at American universities in such
helds as leisure activities. This prob-
lem is so great and so complicated in

418

We Think So Too . . .
Under the title “Editorial Needs

Reading,” in the recreation section of
the August 1955 Tennessee Parks and
Recreation Newsletter, was this note:
“Clear cut recognition Of one of the
professions most pressing problems,

‘What responsibility does recreation-

have in a community program for de-
linquency prevention?’ is the basis of
an editorial by Sidney G. Lutzin in
RECREATION, September 1955. Mr.

Lutzin, assistant director of recreation,
New York State Youth Commission,
cuts through a lot of hazy thinking on
the subject and presents it in such a
manner that professional recreation
personnel will enjoy reading and keep-
ing a copy for the ‘Juvenile Delin-
quency’ file. This article does such a
fine job of presenting the problem that
welfare, social workers, and educators
will find it interesting.”

New State Legislation

In Kansas, a State Park and Re-
sources Authority was created, similar
in effect to the turnpike authorities in a
number of states, since it is to be de-
pendent for its income upon revenues
from fees, tolls, and charges. The au-
thority may not create any indebtedness
payable out of taxes or assessments
levied on property. It may not levy any
property taxes or assessments. and it
may not in any manner pledge the
credit of the State of Kansas. The new
authority has no effect on the opera-
tion of existing state parks in Kansas.

People Make News

CARL L. NORDLY, recipient of the an-
nual AAHPER Gulick Award for 1955,
for outstanding service, is the newly
appointed director of physical educa-
tion at the University of California at
Berkeley. Dr. Nordly previously had
been with the department of physical
education and athletics at the Univer-
sity of. Minnesota since 1935.

“IILLIAM B. POND, who has been recre-
ation supervisor for the Washington
State Parks and Recreation Commis-
sion for the past six years, resigned re-
cently to accept the position of superin-
tendent of parks and recreation for the
new Tualatin Hills Park and Recreation
District in Oregon. ELMER H. ANDER-
SON, recreation specialist with the com-
mission, has been appointed to replace

Mr. Pond.

ROBERT L. LOEFFELBEIN has been ap-
pointed superintendent of the River
Road Parks and Recreation District of
Eugene, Oregon. In addition to his
duties as superintendent, he is working
for his master’s degree in recreation.

MATAYS ABAS has been appointed as
director of music in Waterloo, Iowa.
Mr. Abas, who was born in Holland and
sent by the Dutch Government to the
Tanglewood Music School, has been at
the university at Vancouver, B. C. An
interesting and rather unique salary ar-
rangement makes it possible for this
lowa town to employ a full-time music
director: part of his salary will be paid
by the Waterloo Symphony and part by

the recreation department.

RECREATION

MRS. WILLIAM J. WILSON, recently re-
tired from the Los Angeles City Recrea-
tion and Park Commission, was award-
ed a certificate of appreciation, “In
recOgnition of a third of a century of
community service in behalf of the City
of Los Angeles as a member of its Art
Commission and its Recreation and
Park Commission.”

BRET MCGINNIS, former superintendent
of recreation in Neosho and in Poplar
Bluffs, Missouri, is the new superin-
tendent in Evansville, Indiana. Mr.
McGinnis was honored with a special
Bret McGinnis Day by mayoral procla-
mation in Neosho in 1953. (See RECRE-
ATION, February 1953, page 535.) He
is a member of the NRA National Ad-
visory Committee on Recreation Ad-
ministration.

World Series Cuts Crime Rate

According to a note in the New York
Times for October 4, 1955, crimes in
Manhattan for one day dropped from
the usual fifty to sixty new cases aver—
age down to twenty cases—a ten-year
low for the city. Said Assistant District
Attorney John A. McAvinue, Jr., “The
only reason I can think of is that the
world series has the ne’er-do-wells nail-
ed to radios and television sets.”

New York Program for
Handicapped

A greatly enlarged therapeutic-recre-
ation program, free of charge to any
handicapped adult in New York’s five
boroughs, opened last month under
sponsorship of the Federation of the
Handicapped. The program, considered
to be the largest in the United States,
operates on a year-round basis, seven
nights a week, in the federation’s own
four-story building in Manhattan.

More than one thousand disabled
men and women will take part in more
than twenty-six different activities, ac-
cording to Milton Cohen, director of
the federation, which is now celebrating
its twentieth anniversary. The recrea-
tion program is a part of the organiza-
tion’s plan for total rehabilitation of the
handicapped.

A staff of twenty-three, five of Whom
are handicapped, will lead this fall-win-
ter program, under the direction of
James M. Evans, Jr., director of recrea-
tion. The entertainment committee,
composed of representatives of the par-
ticipants, arranges for social events on
Weekends, including dances, concerts,
lectures, and so on, in addition to the
regularly scheduled activities.

Facts and Figures

Illinois—As a result of a "$1,755.000
bond issue passed this year, Skokie,

NOVEMBER 1955

fast-growing suburb of Chicago, is de-
veloping sixteen new parks and play-
grounds and improving ten existing
areas. Plans include two outdoor swim-
ming pools and a community recreation
center in a new fifteen-acre park.

California—Competition among legis-
lators for “local” state parks led the
governor to veto a $16,000,000 appro-
priation bill for beaches and parks.

A Most Quotable Quote

“Last year some eighteen mil-
lion boys and girls between the
ages of ten and seventeen were

not picked up by the police for
any crime whatsoever.”——Mar-

that M. Eliot, Chief of U. S. Chil-

dren’s Bureau.

 

Ohio—State parks, which draw 10,000,-
000 visitors annually, are being de-
veloped by “honor crews” from the
state prisons, composed of men almost
eligible for parole. The men work in
parks, state nurseries and forests pro-
viding labor not otherwise possible.

M assachusetts—Worcester, which has a
population of 200,000 and almost 1,300
acres of parkland, solved its problem of
lack of funds for development of 220
acres in the Lake Quinsagamond area
by working out an arrangement with the
state for mutual use of the area. The
state has already appropriated $1,500,-
000 for development of the area for
which it will pay Worcester rent of a
dollar a year. Eventually the develop-
ment may cost a total of $3,500,000.
The region is divided into four areas:
30-acre Lake Park to be used for local
and metropolitan needs; 15-acre Re-
gatta Park and 25-acre Aqua Park for
metropolitan and state-wide use; and
150-acre Great Brook Valley to be used
by'all three.

Sports Fans by the Millions

Americans attend sports events in a
big way, with softball games—not hard-
ball—leading and drawing 125,000,000
viewers each season, according to a new
report of the Twentieth Century Fund.
Basketball games draw 105,000,000
each year; high school, college and pro-

fessional football games, 65,000,000;
maor and minor-league baseball games,

63,000,000; horse races, 50,000,000; ,,

auto speed races, 40,000,000; boxing
matches, 25,000,000; 'roller-skatin g con-
tests, 20,000,000.

Boston “Specials”

Two of the special programs spon-
sored by the Boston Parks and Recrea-

tion Department last year were: a box-,
ing show presented at the State Prison
at Charlestown (the first show of this
type in the one hundred and fifty years
the prison has been in existence) and

n the American Red Cross doll project,

(playground youngsters each made two

dolls, one to keep and one for a hOSpi-
talized child).

Pen Pals Wanted

The International Friendship League
of Boston offers introductions to pen
pals in more than one hundred free do-
minions and territories to students
from eight to twenty-eight years of age.
For further information send a self-ad-
dressed envelope requesting a free sup-
ply of official application blanks to:
International Friendship League, 40

Mount Vernon Street, Boston 8, Massa-
chusetts.

Dates to Note This Month

NOVEMBER 6-12. American Educa-
tion Week. General theme: Schools——
Your Investment in America.

Daily topics are: Sunday—Your Investment
in Character Building; Monday—Your In-
vestment in Teachers; Tuesday—Your Invest-
ment in Classrooms; Wednesday——Your In-
vestment in Fundamental Learning; Thursday
—Your Investment in Better Living; Friday
—Your Investment in a Strong Nation; Sat-
urday——-Your Investment is YOUR Responsi-
bility.

NOVEMBER 11-13. National Confer-

ence of the Adult Education Association
of the U.S.A. at St. Louis, Missouri.

Theme of the conference will be how

adult education programs can improve
community living.

NOVEMBER 13-19. National Chil-
dren’s Book Week. This year’s slogan:
“Let’s Read More.”

Hats Off to a Good Neighbor

The Recreation Round Up, publica-

tion of the UAW-C10 Recreation De-

partment, had this very interesting lit-

tle item in the July-August 1955 issue:

“The children of Durand, Michigan, are
fortunate indeed that Clara Shaw lives in
their town. Why? Because Miss Shaw, three
years ago, turned over a large piece of prop-
erty she owned for use as a playground. She
not only gave the property, but paid the ex-
pense of having it leveled, seeded to grass, and
supplied with playground equipment. She
planted some shade trees and often mowed
the grass herself or paid to have it done until
the city of Durand recently took over the task.

“Is Clara Shaw a millionairess? Gosh! No.
She’s an unselfish person doing her bit for her
community. Miss Shaw, far from being a
wealthy person, is a member of Local 599 of
the Buick plant in Flint, where she works in
the wire department. Clara Shaw is Durand’s
‘Good Neighbor of the Year.’ Hats off to you,
Clara!”

419

The

Evolution of
a Long-Range
Recreation

Plan

 

Some of the steps which led to success, as adapted from a report prepared by
Dr. Josephine Randall, superintendent of the San Francisco Recreation Com-
mission 1926-1951, entitled “Twenty-Five Years of Supervised Recreation and

a Five-Year Plan.”

SAN FRANCISCO ranks high among American cities which
have expanded their recreation areas and facilities in
the last few years. Visitors to “America’s most cosmopol-
itan city” are impressed by the variety of new recreation
buildings and the many improvements in its old and recent-
ly-acquired recreation areas. Such accomplishments do not
just happen; they are the result of intelligent planning and
intensive effort. An account of the steps that led to the suc-
cess of San Francisco’s long-range plan can be helpful to
other cities.

The city and county of San Francisco, located on a hilly
peninsula bounded on three sides by water, includes 44.82
square miles of land area. The topography is rugged with
an altitude range from sea level to 934 feet. Population,
which includes pe0ple from almost every section of the
civilized world, was 775,357 in 1950. The city is congested,
since it was laid out in twenty-five-foot lots, and later, in
many sections, in thirty-three-foot lots. This factor, plus
the scarcity of reasonably level terrain, makes the provision
of adequate neighborhood and community recreation areas
unusually difficult. Development of these areas also neces-
sitates a much greater amount of grading and fencing than
is required in most cities.

The recent expansion and improvement of the city’s rec-
reation resources represent the culmination of eEort over
a twenty-iive-year period. The following are a number of
important steps that led to this goal:

First: A detailed study of the recreation opportunities and
facilities offered by its agencies was made in 1924-25 by the
local Community Chest. A resulting recommendation was
that a representative council on recreation be organized to
conduct an educational campaign and make a city-wide
study to develop a “plan-wise and harmonious movement
toward a single social objective.” The recreation council
was organized in 1925 and has proved of great value.

420

Second: In 1928, a detailed city-wide survey was made of
municipal recreation facilities and all playgrounds, recrea-
tion centers, parks, and schools were indicated for study on
a large map of the city.

Third: A city-wide plan for immediate recreation devel-
opment with cost estimates was prepared on the basis of the
preceding survey. A $3,100,000 bond issue was proposed
and, although it failed to receive a two-thirds majority vote,
the plan proved useful in future budgetary considerations.

Fourth: In 1934, a theoretical, ideal plan of playground
distribution for the city was prepared, based on the popu-
lation of 700,000 people. Ten acres of playgrounds, parks,
and schoolyards were allotted for every 1,000 persons, dis-
tributed according to several types of properties, including
a forty-acre community athletic field with recreation build-
ing, a ten-acre neighborhood playground with large recrea-
tion building, and smaller neighborhood play areas. Avail-
able properties in 1934 were: 214 acres under the recreation
department, 28 acres under the school department, and
3,206 acres under the park department, or a total of 3,448
acres. This was slightly less than half of the- total area set
as an ideal goal for the city. ~

Fifth: In 1940, a long-range, pay-as-you-go plan for the
purchase, construction, and Operation of recreation areas
was adopted. Based upon the 1934 study, the plan called
for an average expenditure of some $900,000 per year over
a ten-year period; but, owing to inadequate financing it was
impossible to put it into effect.

Sixth: In 1946, a comprehensive program, totaling fifty-
five projects at an estimated cost of $12,664,000, was ap-
proved by the recreation commission. It called for:

1. The development of all play areas on land owned by the city and
under the jurisdiction of the recreation commission.

2. The acquisition of land for playgrounds in unimproved areas.

3. The deve10pment of all newly acquired play areas, including

recreation centers and swimming pools.

RECREATION

 

Chinese Recreation Center, located near heart of San
Francisco’s famed Chinatown, contains gymnasium,
auditorium with stage, rooms for variety of activities.

4. The lighting of appropriate playgrounds for night use.

5. The enlargement of Camp Mather.

6. The acquisition and development of a mountain camp for
children.

7. The acquisition and development of a day camp for children.

8. The development‘of the James D. Phelan Beach.

9. The construction of an activity building, centrally located, to
house the several units of non-athletic recreation activities scattered
about the city in rented buildings.

10. The construction of a shop, corporation yard, and storehouse
to house the properties and equipment owned and used by the
recreation department and housed in temporary shacks.

Complete plans and specifications were prepared as rap-
idly as possible for all areas under the commission’s juris-
diction, in order that the work might start immediately upon
the approval of a proposed bond issue.

Seventh: In January, 1947, the recreation commission
presented a report to the San Francisco Post-War Commit-
tee in which it commented on the rapid expansion of the
commission’s services, the need for expanding indoor and
outdoor facilities, and the inability to finance such an ex-
pansion from the funds secured annually by the commission
through its special tax levy. In its report the commission
emphasized:

1. Many districts of the city are, at present, without playgrounds
and recreation centers.

2. The population of the city is rapidly increasing.

3. Available open spaces are rapidly disappearing.

4. The present process of playground development is too slow and
the hazards too great for delay.

Eighth: In January 1947, the citizens’ committee which
developed “The Master Plan for Youth” recommended,
“That the board of supervisors approve and present to the

- electorate at the earliest possible time a proposal for a bond

issue in the sum of $12,000,000 to finance adequately the
recreation program set forth above, which provides suffi-
cient facilities for every section of San Francisco; the prin-
cipal and interest on said bonds to be paid over a period of
years from revenue received from a tax on cigarettes suf-
ficient to amortize the obligation within a reasonable length
of time.”

Before the proposal for recreation bonds could be sub-
mitted to the voters it was necessary to obtain approval of
the recreation commission, post-war committee, planning
commission, mayor, “The Master Plan for Youth” Com-

NOVEMBER 1955

mittee, board of supervisors, Progress Bonds Citizens’ Cam-
paign Committee.

After necessary approval was obtained, the recreation
bond item became one of seven bond propositions submit-
ted to the voters in November. The recreation bonds were
included in all publicity submitted to the voters by the
Progress Bonds Citizens’ Campaign Committee, which was
advocating approval of seven proposals designed to make
San Francisco a better city. Publicity stressed such slogans
as “Thousands of Children Have No Place to Play,” “J uve-
nile Delinquency is Rife,” “San Francisco Has Too Few
Playgrounds,” and “Parents and Welfare Leaders Demand
More Municipal Recreation Facilities.” Statements by in-
fluential individuals and organizations stressed the impor-
tance of approving the recreation bonds.

The benefits to result from the bond funds were indicated
as follows:

° thirty-nine recreation centers with handcraft room, clubroom, kit-
chen and sanitary facilities

° nineteen gymnasiums

' ten indoor swimming pools

° twenty gr0unds equipped with night lighting

° seven grandstands on athletic fields '

° eighteen new playfields

° thirteen existing playgrounds modernized

0 construction of a city.wide drama center

° development of two safe ocean swimming beaches with adequate
facilities

° development of a permanent children’s day camp

° development of a children’s mountain camp

° enlargement of the municipal camp at Mather

' development of a junior museum and handcraft center.

Emphasis was laid upon the fact that the bonds would not
require support from property taxes. “The entire cost of
the proposed progress bonds for a reborn city can be met
without causing any increase in the property tax rate.”

In preparing the campaign a General Campaign Commit-
tee for Recreation Bonds was appointed which enlisted vol-
unteers to serve on the following subcommittees: speakers,
clerical, house-to-house campaign, special activities, tele-
phone and handbill and billboard. Teen-age youth sup-
ported the campaign by urging their neighbors to vote
“Yes” for the recreation bonds.

Ninth: On November 4, 1947, the recreation bond issue
was passed with 176,103 votes for it, as compared with 56,576
against it.

Important factors in the successful passage of the recrea-
tion bonds were the splendid campaign organization and
the fact that recreation was one of the seven propositions
to be voted upon and all were important to the welfare of
the city. All seven propositions were of general interest,
and special backers of each proposition cooperated, one with
the other, for the welfare of the city.

The recreation planners supposed the real job was de-
termining needs, locating sites, estimating costs, and secur-
ing approval of the bond issue. It was found, however, that
this was only the beginning and probably the easiest of ac-
complishment. The difficult job was to get the money re-
leased for the use for which it was voted.

Before the bonds could be sold‘ and the inoney made avail-
able, it was necessary to obtain the approval of the State
legislature. The bond money was made available in March
1948, but before it could be spent and a work program

421

 

e ' j ' \ ' -
'buc ”
. i 7' l
C . l
r.  . ’ ,

The Josephine D. Randall Junior Museum provides a center for diversified arts, crafts, and nature program.

started, it was necessary to again obtain the approval of the
recreation commission, the mayor, the board of supervisors,
the controller, and the planning commission for each indi-
vidual project. After an appropriation was made available,
and before each individual contract could be consummated,
it was again necessary to obtain the approval of the recrea-
tion commission and the art commission. Because of result-
ing delays, 1948 was well under way before actual work
could start.

Another problem was the fact that all publicity for recrea-
tion bonds was presented on the basis of individual pro-
jects. The plan proposed by the planners would enable prac-
tically every district of the city to benefit by the passage of
the bonds. However, the resolution of the board of super-
visors provided merely for playgrounds and recreation cen-
ters within and without the city and county. It approved
recreation bonds and not individual projects. This action
had both its good and bad points. It was wise, considering
the increase of costs before each construction could start. On
the other hand, it was necessary to guard each project in
order to keep faith with the people interested in—and prom-
ised—individual projects, even though legally the money
could be diverted to some other recreation purpose.

The basic program, as originally planned, was adhered
to, although with the rapid rise in construction costs, which
had been estimated on the basis of 1946 prices, it was im-
possible to carry out the entire program. Fortunately, the
planning of many of the projects was started through the
aid of state matching funds for plan preparations, and the
money saved in this way by state aid helped offset a part of
the rise in construction costs.

Immediately following the first bond sale, bids were
called and construction work started on all units for which
plans and specifications were already prepared; contracts
for plans and specifications were made on units where the
land was already purchased, and condemnation proceed-
ings were started on units not yet purchased, as soon as offi-
cial approval was granted.

In addition to the playgrounds and playfields designed
to serve neighborhood and community needs, a number of
the units provide city-wide service. At the Sigmund Stern
Grove, for example, bond funds were used to purchase an
area adjoining the grove and to provide a bowling green
clubhouse, additional convenience stations in the bow], and
adequate dressing rooms to serve the out-of—door stage.
The grove—a canyon in the heart of the congested city—
already provided a well-equipped picnic area, clubhouse

422

with a large room for dances and special parties, and an
amphitheatre seating more than ten thousand people.

The Josephine D. Randall Junior Museum, one of the
major structures provided through bond funds, is located
near the geographic center of San Francisco on a height
rising to an elevation of five hundred feet. The museum is
accessible by streetcar and coach from practically every sec-
tion of the city. Trails lead from the junior museum build-
ing, and the rocky strata of the hills, the wild flowers, and
the plans for special specimen planting all contribute to the
effectiveness of the area. The modern, 'attractive building
affords a center for a wide variety of junior activities. It is
the meeting place for the Science Club, Rockminors Club,
the Clay Modelers, Indian Arts Club, False Face Society,
and the Pterodactyls, among others. A model room, wood
shop, metal shop, paint room, and design room are among
the facilities that help in providing a diversified program.

Camping facilities, made possible through bond funds,
include the acquisition and development of the Silver Tree
Day Camp. The canyon site gives the area the atmosphere of
a mountain camp even though it is right in the heart of the
congested city. Acquisition of a municipal mountain camp
for children and rehabilitation and expansion of Camp
Mather, a family camp approximately 180 miles from San
Francisco, are among the developments made possible by
bond funds.

Other new facilities are a well-equipped bathhouse with
clubroom and kitchen at James D. Phelan Beach, one of the
few waterfront properties in San Francisco safe for swim-
ming; a centrally-located fireproof building to house several
thousand costumes assembled by the recreation department,
and to provide a new photography center. The availability
of bond funds for the purchase of land and to construct a
playground, athletic field, and' recreation building with
swimming pool enabled the. recreation commission to oin
with other city departments in the cooperative development

of the Sunset Community Center on a tract of approximately
twenty-four acres.

Approval by the voters was given in 1949 to a charter
amendment calling for consolidation of the recreation and
park departments into a single department known as the
Recreation and Park Department. Many individuals and
groups had an important part in the successful fulfillment of
the San Francisco long-range plan. Although the goals set
out have not been entirely reached, it is the firm policy of
the recreation and park commission to carry out the original
program as closely as conditions will allow.

RECREATION

l

A [In Preparing Play Areas

for Skating

Harold R. Gelein

WE HAVE rivers and lakes in Eau Claire, but our citizens
have recognized the greater safety in flooding play
areas and vacant lots for ice skating. There are a number of
important considerations to keep in mind when building such
a facility:

Choosing a Location. (1) Find a location where the least
amount of grading will be necessary. (2) The rink should
be located at a point most accessible to the greatest number of
people. (3) The location should be shielded as muchras
possible from northerly winds. (4) The best surface is clay,
and it is extremely difficult, if not impossible, to freeze a

sand surface. Where the soil is sandy the turf will not hold

water, so the bottom surface should be covered with about
four inches of clay. (5) There should be an immediate
contact with a running water supply, preferably a hydrant
on the same side of the street. (6) If possible there should
be a supply -of electric current. (7) The best method to
make good, smooth ice is to spray it, working from the
farthest point back to the hydrant.

Banking the Rink. There must be a bank with enough
height to hold the water. The easiest way is to start building
the bank before freezing weather. The more time and pa-
tience taken with the packing and tamping of the banking
the less water will leak out when spraying starts. If a heavy
snowstorm should come before flooding has started it will
be necessary to get rid of the snow by the use of a plow or
grader.

The Spraying and Freezing Process. After the bank has
been made, the rink is ready for all sprinkling and freezing.
This process is an important one and patience is the secret of
success. When ready for the first coat, the water must be
put on in cold weather, though it is not desirable to spray
when it is below five degrees because the ice will have a brittle
surface. Very little water is applied to freeze the ground.
The coats following the first one should be mere sprays build-
ing up the surface by film-like layers until the ice is from
three-and-a-half to four-inches thick. This method should
be used on hockey and figure-skating rinks.

It is understood, of course, that the bank must be frozen
thoroughly before the surface is considered. This may be
accomplished by means of a garden hose with a nozzle spray,
sprinkling the bank repeatedly until the possibility of leak-

MR. GELEIN is director of recreation, Eaa Claire, Wisconsin.

NOVEMBER 1955

 

age is eliminated. The surface of the rink should be frozen
in the same manner as the bank; that is, by starting the
sprinkling at the far end and working toward the hydrant
or water supply from other sources. This should be repeated
until the ice is about four inches thick. If the water then
shows any sign of leaking through the bank, it may be added
more rapidly.

A satisfactory method is to use a two-inch hose, applying
the water at the far end of the rink and drawing the hose
toward the base of supply as the water approaches. A good
hose to use is the mill hose, rubber inside and out, with
regular hose couplings.

A large rink will call for a_special line of pipe to be laid
along the edge below the freezing line, with two or three
flooding vales coming to the surface in boxes about four
feet square, the shut-off cock being in the ground. This
should be well protected from freezing by manure.

Caring for the Ice. It is necessary to scrape the ice, and
the best time to do this is at night when the skating ceases
for the day. Snow should be removed as soon as possible
after a snowfall. The plow, first, and then the brush is the
method that is used by many recreation departments. When
this equipment isn’t available, use as a scraper a piece of
sheet-iron about four feet long and three feet wide made
like a dustpan on runners, the edge being about eighteen
inches high at the back. Many other home-made and hand-
operated devices have been improvised for small skating
areas. A little hot water will mend cracks and holes in the ice.

The Shelter House. Where the weather is very cold it will
be necessary to have a warming house. The cement block
type of shelter house that includes a heating unit is ideal.
Toilets and fountains are also important essentials. A shelter
house should be large enough to accommodate the attendance
but not so large as to encourage loafing.

Lighting. Floodlights using SOD-watt bulbs for the smaller
rinks and 1,000-watt for .the larger areas would be adequate
lighting. Good lighting effects have been secured for hockey
rinks by 'the use of a cable strung across the rink with a
string of incandescent lights fastened to it.

Safety. All attendants at shelter houses of skating rinks
should have a good supply of first aid materials always
on hand. Maintenance workers should constantly be alert
for dangerous places in both the building and the rink. Large
cracks in the ice should be taken care of as soon as possible
to avoid accidents.

423

A

Cherished Event

   

Kathleen Meehan

.- _‘_

HRISTMAS BELLS will begin ringing Sunday afternoon,
December 11, in Muncie, Indiana, when the traditional
community Christmas sing will be held for the twenty-first
consecutive year. More than 7,500 Muncie residents and
their relatives and friends from neighboring communities

annually pack the city’s Field House to participate in this

cherished event, the theme of which is “Oh Come, All Ye
Faithful!”

Each year, by the time the sing begins, the “Standing
Room Only” sign could be hung up, because there are al-
ways some latecomers who stand during the hour-long pro-
gram. But there’s never a Scrooge in the crowd! If Dick-
ens’ famous character attended, even he might have a dif-
ferent slant on the Yuletide.

Although the affair lasts only one thrilling hour, many
hours of careful planning precede the event that rates first
place among Muncie’s community gatherings. While fall
leaves are being raked from lawns and sidewalks and gay
Halloween parties headline the social calendar in this Hoo-
sier community, plans are started for the sing.

Behind the planning is the general chairman, R. D. Shaf-
fer, superintendent of the city schools. Always interested
in any event that makes a better community for the young
people, Mr. Shaffer annually calls an early meeting of rep-
resentatives of the city’s musical, civic, religious, public
relations, and education groups.

 

—-v-—-—-

 

\llss MEEHAN is the teacher of journalism at the Central
[Ira/1. School, M uncie.

4-24

I w ' f F’... .’ 0

YOUR COMMUNITY CHRISTMAS PROGRAM CAN INCLUDE ALL FAI']

Around a table in his office, previous singsnare reviewed
and evaluated. Just about every year someone has a sug-
gestion for making a change in the program; but public
opinion vetoes any major changes. Munsonians and their
friends who attend like the sing just the way it is, and since
it will come of age this year, it seemingly has a mind of its
own.

Following the general meeting, the program co-chairmen
swing into action. Two of the best music masters in the
state, Glenn A. Stepleton, head of the music department at
Central High School and supervisor of instrumental music
in Muncie city schools, and Dr. Robert Hargreaves, head of
the local Ball State College music department, engineer the
program with the same enthusiasm shown by Santa Claus
as he directs his reindeer on their annual trek.

Long before Thanksgiving, peoPIe are beginning to talk
about the sing, and folks in, this locale just don’t plan affairs
that interfere with this event.

Variety is the keynote in the prelude. Last year the Cen-
tral High School brass choir played two seventeenth century
chorales. In 1953, the Ball State College brass ensemble
played “0 Come, All Ye Faithful,” and the audience and
holiday-clad strollers joined in the singing.

Indicative of the whole-hearted community endeavor that
makes the sing such a success is the fact that last year the
invocation was given by the Rev. Donald Snow, pastor of
the Nazarene South Side Church and president of the Dela-
ware County Ministerial Association, while the benediction
was given by the Rev. Joseph Grace, assistant pastor of St.

RECREATION

g - at CHRISTMAS

 

5. ._

.0 AGES, AND BECOME A LOCAL TRADITION—AS IN MUNCIE, INDIANA.

Lawrence Catholic Church.

After the invocation, usually, are two numbers by the all-
city elementary choir, composed of approximately four hun-
dred and fifty robed cherubs from the fifteen elementary
schools. Although clapping is frowned upon at the sing,
where every minute of the hour is checked and double-
checked, some folks just can’t refrain from applauding when
the elementary youngsters sing such numbers as “Sleep,
Little Jesus,” “Lullaby on Christmas Eve,” or “Away in a
Manger.” Each year this group sings two numbers that are
different from those of the preceding year.

Then comes the first number in which everybody in the
audience gets top-billing. Although the order of the carols
sung by the audience varies slightly from year to year, the
list always includes the old favorites. Last year the first
all-audience numbers, accompanied by the senior high
school, college, and community orchestra, were “0 Little
Town of Bethlehem” and “The First Noel.” Then the Christ-
mas spirit, that has hovered over the field house from early
morning when the energetic Junior Chamber of Commerce
members come to decorate, seems to permeate every inch
of the gymnasium. And that goalyard, by the way, home of
Central High School’s four-time state basketball champion-
ship Bearcats, isn’t easy to decorate for a Christmas sing.
Undaunted, however, the J aycees plan their festive decora-
tions weeks ahead and annually transform the gymnasium
into a beautiful Christmas-card scene.

After the first group of audience-sung carols comes a
number by the Nightingale Chorus of nurses from Ball

NOVEMBER 1955

Over 7,500 persons pack
Field House in Muncie as
whole families come to the
community Christmas sing.

Memorial Hospital. Many eyes become tear-dimmed as
these lovely young nurses in their crisp uniforms sing a
number such as “Silver Bells” or “Winter Wonderland.”
Managing to squeeze in rehearsals after hours of service,
they add a certain something to the sing and are always a
favorite subject of amateur photographers.

The beautiful melody of “We Three Kings of Orient Are,”
sung by the audience and choirs accompanied by the or-
chestra, follows. The all-city junior high school girls’ choir
last year then sang “When the Star Shines” and “Love Came
Down at Christmas.” Wearing white blouses and dark
skirts, these girls make an attractive picture. The large
crowd takes up the program songsheets distributed by the
Girl Scouts and all the voices ring out with “I Heard the
Bells on Christmas Day.”

The robed Burris Senior High School choir sings “O
Holy Night” and “Ring Christmas Bells.” The audience
again takes the spotlight to sing “While Shepherds Watched
Their F locks,” accompanied by the orchestra.

Fred Waring’s popular arrangement of “ ’Twas the Night
Before Christmas” is sung by the Central High School robed

choir of approximately one hundred voices. Just at the
moment Mr. Claus enters the song, this old gentleman ap-
pears in person—much to the delight of the small fry, who
wave to him and even blow kisses his way. Then it’s time for
some more group singing. This time “It Came Upon the
Midnight Clear.”

The Sweet Adelines are heard next. They are a-igroup of
talented Muncie women who love to sing, and each year

425

they add a festive touch to the program. Singing “Let’s
Light the Christmas Tree” one year, they were arranged on
the bleachers in the form of a Christmas tree. During the
song multi-colored lights flashed on through the clever use
of flashlights. Another year they chose “Frosty, the Snow
Man.” A large replica of Frosty, impersonated by Mrs. Joe
Harris, came to life as the group sang. Her triplet sons had
fun throwing snowballs as she whirled and swayed down
the floor. This number was so popular it was repeated the
next year. Last year in a more dignified but equally delight-
ful number, “This is What Christmas Means to Me,” the
Sweet Adelines scored another triumph. Organized in 1950,
the Sweet Adelines meet two nights each month. Various
age-grOUps are represented among the thirty-five members
some of whom are career women and others housewives.

The audience follows with one ofthe world’s favorites,
“Silent Night,” the Ball State College concert choir and or-
chestra presents Mendelssohn’s “Festival Song of Praise,”
and the audience picks up on “Deck the Halls” and “White
Christmas.”

The following number will be by the Muncie chapter of
the Society for the Preservation and Encouragement of Bar-
ber Shop Quartet Singing of America. Their choices have
included “Jingle Bells,” “Rise Up Early,” and “Winter
Wonderland.” The warm rich tones of this enthusiastic
group fill the big Field House, and some lovers of barber
sh0p harmony in the audience would like to hear an encore
from this group. But no encores! That’s one of the rules.
“Hark the Herald Angels Sing” and “Joy to the World” by
the audience complete the evening.

This type of program has been used as a basis for com-
munity Christmas sings in many other localities to which
former Muncie residents have moved.

Any groups planning to have such a sing will succeed just
as Muncie has done if there is careful planning and whole-
hearted community c00peration. For example, the arrange-
ments committee, composed of a group of principals, has an

important role to play. Each small detail must be outlined
and checked. Decorations must be planned, obtained, and
placed. Bleachers must be reserved for the choir groups.
Chairs must be arranged on the main floor for the orchestra.
Organs and pianos must be in readiness. Loudspeakers must
be in working order.

In Muncie, the newspapers and radio and TV stations give
help that mere dollars could never buy. There are stories
on the sing in both local papers just about every day during
the week preceding the event. On the Saturday evening be-
fore the sing there is a page one story in the M uncie Eve-
ning Press, and a front page story in the M uncie Morning
Star the day of the sing and also the following day.

The advertising manager of Muncie Newspapers, lnc.,
W’ayne Botkin, one of the most enthusiastic boosters of the
program, supplies the attractive cuts for the programs that
are printed in the Central High School print shop. In the
Saturday evening paper there is always a two-page spread
with the theme “Oh Come, All Ye Faithful” and the com-
plete program, with the names of a large number of Muncie
merchants who cheerfully pay for the advertisement.

The local radio station broadcasts the program as it is
given, bringing joy to the shut-ins, many of whom sing the
familiar carols as heartily as if they were present. Radio
stations WLBC and WMUN always broadcast the sing at
11:00 P.M. on Christmas Eve, and last year exquisite pic-
tures combined with the sound afforded WLBC-TV viewers
an hour’s special treat.

Mr. Shaffer commented: “The schools are glad to serve
as the sponsoring agency of this event. It is a strong uni-
fying influence in our community and ushers in our ob-
servance of Christmas in a delightful and appropriate way.
We are happy that such use is made of our Field House fa-
cilities, so that more than 7,500 people can celebrate Christ-
mas in a way acceptable to people of all faiths and all ages.
It is indeed a pleasure to see whole families, including three
generation groups, attend and participate.” °

 

Have You Thought Of ——

i A Carol Caravan, a truck or jeep all festive with decor-
ations, carrying a group of carolers to every neighborhood?
i Carol Cars, trimmed with lighted Christmas trees, wired
for sound recordings of carols or carrying carolers?

g Decorated Buses, transporting carolers to every carol
sing?

g A Carol Ship or Boat—~—if you’ve got the water? Sched-
ule it for Specific hours at specific places. Let motorists
blink their lights for applause. Decorate the ship with a big,
lighted tree and broadcast Christmas music and carols.

i “A Candle-in-the-Window—A Carol-at-the-Door” Pro-
gram? Small groups of carolers scheduled for definite
streets or blocks, st0pping at every home with a candle in

the window. (The carolers will be invited in, of course.)
i Having Santa Claus and his assistants at the commu-

nity Christmas sing to shake hands with the visitors on spe-
cial nights?
g Spotlighting every church, and having carol groups sing

426

on the steps? Costume them for a lovely effect!

i A Request Program? Families call in to the local radio
station and ask for a favorite carol. First come, first served.
——From Christmas, A Special Defense Publication of the
National Recreation Association.

For Further Christmas Ideas in RECREATION

Originality in Christmas Decorations..................................October 1954-
The Night Before A Fire-Safe Christmas ...................... ..December 1954
Special Christmas Projects: Soapsud Snow;

A Cotton Tree ..... ..‘ ......................................................... ..December 1954
Holiday Hangers ................................................................ ..December 1954
A Christmas Angel (How To Do It) ................................ ..December 1954
Christmas Cards from Scrap Materials ............................ ..December 1954
Special Christmas Projects: Parcels for the Aging;

The Shoe and Stocking Project ................................ ..November 1953
Christmas Gifts From Cotton Bags ................................ ..November 1953
McCook’s Original Santa Claus Lane .............................. ..December 1953
Community and Post Become Christmastown U.S.A.....December 1953
Holiday Games and Contests ............................................ ..December 1953
Community Spirit at Christmas ........................................ ..December 1953
Our Santa Claus Answers His Mail................ .................December 1953
Pet Ideas for Christmas......................................................December 1953
Is There a Santa Claus? (A Pageant)............................December 1953
Christmas Mobiles (Recipes for Fun) ............................ ..December 1953

RECREATION

The Night Train

A good teen-age activity grows out
of a song. Add this to your ideas for
special events for this age-group.

V. C. Smoral

JUMPING, jiving trainload of fun, the “WDVA Night
A Train” made a round-trip between Danville and Lynch-
burg, Virginia, on April 1, and pioneered a new form of
recreation. Aboard the eleven-car train were five hundred
merrymakers, two full orchestras, the combined staffs of
radio station WDVA and the Danville Recreation Depart-
ment, officials of the Southern Railway Company, and city
dignitaries of Danville. Following a lively dance in the
Southern Railway depot in Danville, the crack train pulled
out for a second dance in the Lynchburg depot, sixty miles
away. The crowd returned home after midnight, tired but
happy. What an evening!

And it all came about because of a phonograph record.
Earl Stognar, WDVA disc jockey, selected Buddy Mor-
row’s recording of “Night Train” as the title theme for his
evening musical program. Complete with train sound effects
to establish the mood of the program, the “Night Train”
snowballed into an immediate smash hit. A special operator
was employed merely to answer the telephone requests and
handle the mail. Teen-agers, especially, were wild about
the program.

“Let’s add a special car to some train on a regular run,
and take our fans for a real train ride,” suggested a staff
member. Plans were made . . . and they, too, snowballed.

The originally proposed short trip was extended to Lynch-
burg, and entertainment was expanded to include a dance
at both ends of the line.

The Danville Recreation Department was called in on the
planning. They gladly consented to aid in the ever-growing
project and carried a large share of the work. Officials of
the Southern Railway Company were approached and be-
came enthusiastic boosters of the WDVA Night Train.
Since this excursion would serve as an introduction to travel
by rail to many who would attend, they reserved the most
luxurious cars of their entire line for the trip.

In Lynchburg, the city ochials and the recreation depart-
ment joined forces with those in Danville. The Lynchburg
Recreation Department took care of all arrangements, plan-
ning, and supervision of the activities at their end. of the
line in cooperation with the Southern Railway agent in that

 

V. C. SMORAL is superintendent of recreation in Danville.

NOVEMBER 1955

t

 

[If‘VllllIrI'JI‘l

Lynchburg’s mayor and city manager received railroad
caps presented by Danville’s city manager in depot.

 

“Whooping it up” in the baggage car, with Bob Cleve-
land’s band playing sweet and hot as train rolled on.

 

In Lynchhurg the travelers were greeted by a crowd
of over 3,000. Visiting dignitaries were everywhere.

Free refreshments were served by the car supervisor
en route. Railway officials cooperated to the utmost.

 

city. Radio and television stations throughout Virginia
helped publicize the planned jaunt, and the newspapers of
Danville and Lynchburg published many a fine article con-
cerning it. Bob Cleveland’s orchestra and Joe Hatchett and
his Big Axe Combo agreed to provide the music. Refresh-
ments were donated by Danville bottling companies and
dairies.

By 7:00 P.M. a tremendous crowd had gathered in the
Danville depot and dancing was under way despite the fact
that floor space was at a premium. At 8:00 P.M. the WDVA
Night Train was boarded, and fifteen minutes later was
roaring towards its destination with banners streaming in
the pleasant spring evening.

Ten of the railroad cars were equipped by WDVA en-
gineers with loudspeakers. Through these, continuous mu-
sic flowed from microphones in the baggage car, which
served as a bandstand for both orchestras, as well as storage
space for the soft drinks and ice cream. After tickets had
been punched by “conductor” Earl Stognar, “visiting”
from car to car was permitted.

Once under way, free refreshments were served. Rail-
road caps were distributed by WDVA and the Danville Rec-
reation Department. Incidently, tickets for this excursion
were just $3.00 each, for everything . . . which was less than
the actual train fare from Danville to Lynchburg.

When the train pulled into Lynchburg, the crowd on hand
to greet the visitors was a breathtaking three thousand!
Festivities in the host “Hill City” had been under way for
some time, with local Lynchburg musicians playing it sweet
and hot. Danville’s representatives disembarked and joined
the fun.

While Hash cameras flared and television cameras ground,
Danville’s city manager, Ed Temple, stepped forth to ex-
change greetings with Lynchburg’s city manager, Robert

D. Morrison. Visiting dignitaries and representatives of
the Danville and Lynchburg recreation departments and
Southern Railway Company were sped to WLVA-TV, with
a police escort, to appear on television. In the depot Bob
Cleveland’s orchestra vied with Joe Hatchett and his Big
Axe Combo. The dancers and spectators were sent, man,
sent!

“It’s the biggest thing I’ve seen since the celebration on
V-J Day,” said a veteran.

At 11:30, with many a fond farewell, the WDVA Night
Train began the homeward journey. Songsheets with old
favorites as well as the latest hits had been printed and were
distributed by the Danville Recreation Department. The
bands in the baggage car struck up the music and all joined
in a session of group singing.

A good time was had by all! That was the universal opin-
ion as the sleepy passengers were unloaded at 12:30 in the
Danville depot. In spite of the tremendous crowds that had
been involved in Danville, on the train, and in Lynchburg
there had not been a single unpleasant incident.

The goals set at the planning stage of this excursion had
been reached and surpassed. The evening had provided a
form of unique, inexpensive entertainment for countless
teenagers, yet one from which the numerous ten-year-olds
and oldsters who attended received equal pleasure. The
two Virginia cities involved, always friendly rivals, had
been drawn even closer together because of this mutual
effort.

The results? It’s too soon to tell! Lynchburg is now dis-
cussing the possibilities of returning the visit with their own
night train. A radio station in Roanoke, Virginia has al-
ready announced its plans to run one in the near future.

It was a good plan that snowballed into a wonderful plan.
. . . And all because of a phonograph record.

 

ICE-RINK BRIEFS

Dual Purpose Sprays

John Walsh, director of recreation
and parks in Riverside, Illinois, eXperi-

After a small tractor blade was run over
the ice to knock off any small bumps,
the rink was ready for skating.

in their sunken plaza. Here, three years
earlier, this system had been adapted as
a portable rink to provide ice skating

mented with a sprinkler system for his
ice skating rink and has a great deal of
confidence in his discovery. Up to that
time he had found the making of ice a
costly item, as it had taken manpower
and long hours of work in zero weather
to form ice on the community rink in

Central Park athletic field. He bought a

couple of rotating sprinklers, adjusted
the spray several times to get a mist,
and then let the sprinkler work on the

water pressure from a city water line.
The result was so effective that he later
bought four more and, by adjusting
each spray to cover a circumference of
approximately fifty feet, a large area
could be coated at no manpower cost.

428

One experiment led to another. It oc-
curred to him that by constructing an
underground water piping maze with
outlets fifty feet apart, the same sprays
could be used in the summer for sprin-
klers to keep the athletic field green and
attractive. This double purpose arrange-
ment is quite a unique method. It is an
idea for other communities interested in
reducing labor costs.

Rockefeller Center Surface

The Rockefeller Center authorities in
New York City made history when, in
1939, they constructed the first perma-
nent artificial outdoor skating rink in
America by installing a Carpenter Mono-
lithic Floating Floor and Piping System

only———-which included removing the en-
tire piping system at the close of the ice
season in the spring and re-laying. it
each fall, a considerable expense.

Technically, this floor has an inter-
esting construction. Thoroughly bond-
ed to as well as imbedded in concrete,
the floor pipes were laid right on the
pavement. The floor, 62- by 125-feet in
area, has one hundred and fifty tons of
refrigeration available, and, in the six-
teen years of constant service, has
shown no signs of deterioriation in
either the floor or the piping system,
which provides freedom for expansion
and contraction in all directions without
floor fracture.

RECREATION

 

Delicate and complicated designs can be achieved
by the advanced amateur; simple ones can be
used to develop creative talents of children.
Let groups of dijj‘erent ages try their skill.

    

’

   

«.9

A pencil sketch for the world and the moon, a paper
cutout for the rocket, absorbent cotton for exhaust,
sugar stars—we’re ready for flight into outer space.

Anyone can produce a photogram.

They are pictures made without a camera by direct ex-
posure of opaque and transparent objects upon photograph-
ic paper. No previous photographic experience is neces-
sary—only a minimum of materials and a resourceful im-
agination. If you experiment with such objects as twine,
pieces of paper, or kitchen utensils, you’ll soon discover
your photograms will mold into any composition, texture,
or design that occurs to your fancy.

Your production of photograms does not require any
complicated equipment or costly materials._ For less than
two dollars your local photo dealer will supply you with
easy-mix chemicals, instructions and photographic paper
with which you can make twenty-five eight-by-ten photo-
grams.

You can obtain an easy type of photogram simply by
placing objects—keys, feathers, costume jewelry, even your
own hand—directly upon the photographic paper and turn-
ing on the room light for a few seconds. The Opaque ob-
jects, not permitting light to pass, leave that area on the
paper white, while the uncovered portions of the paper turn
black on exposure to light.

In an illuminated room you can compose more compli-
cated designs upon a sheet of clean glass which is later
placed upon the photographic paper in the darkroom and

MR. KOSINSKI attended Mexico City College, majoring in ap-
plied arts, during that time won grand prize in photo contest
over twenty-one of participating Pan-American countries.

NOVEMBER 1955

Michael Kosinski

 

exposed to light the usual way.

The creation of photograms is an ideal occupation for the
beginner, as it is for the advanced amateur. It offers an ex-
cellent opportunity to develop the creative talents of chil-
dren. Once youngsters are shown how to obtain a picture,
almost by magic, the innumerable ideas popping into their
minds will keep them busy and excited with their creations.

It does not take much time to imagine appropriate ob-
jects for a photogram. Shortly, almost anything in the
house will be marked for a potential photogram, and you
soon become an expert in the selection of forms and the
appreciation of the results.

The opportunities, you’ll find, are unlimited.

 

Suggestions
for your

   

V 

Q

‘5'-

O

“Yes, I’ve been good for a whole bunch of days.”

   

“Have you been a good girl?”

Christmas

I.

Pick up new ideas from these programs in other communities.

A Town “Gives” at Christmas

In November 1954, the Eastehester Recreation Commis-
sion in Tuckahoe, New York, announced through local news-
papers a giant project—“A Community Gives at Christmas
Time.” All organizations, eivie, social, religious, fraternal,
and otherwise, were notified of this project.

Here is how the project worked: The recreation commis-
sion made its twenty complete Santa Claus wardrobes avail-
able to organizations in the community. Here the gimmick

unfolds: If each organization, instead of giving a Christmas

gift to each child at their Christmas party, would have each
child bring a gift for Santa Claus, then the recreation com-
mission would send a real live Santa Claus to their party.
Instead of receiving, the child was giving to another child
in less fortunate circumstances.

The Scouts, for instance, picked up the prOposal and,
for months, met at their headquarters to repair old toys.
They canvassed the community, and the toys collected were
brought to Santa’s headquarters and to all firehouses. Santa
went about the town on a fire engine. Craft classes in the
schools and recreation department were kept as busy as
Santa Claus in his workshop. In fact there was such an

abundance of toys to be repaired the classes will be busy
all year.

Previous to the start of the project, the superintendent of
recreation, to catch the children’s interest, wrote a serialized

BO

story, “My Hobby Horse,” for the local newspaper. It was
about a mild little pony that turned into a wild stallion and
led a pack of hobby horses into rebellion—because of the
rough treatment he received from his little master. It was a
story of being kind to toys.

The project reached its climax in a small kindergarten of
one of the elementary schools, where it was customary for
each child to bring a Christmas gift for a grab-bag. This
year, a little child stood up and said, “Why don’t we give
these gifts to Santa instead?” This started a school parade
to Santa’s headquarters.

The whole project might be summed up best as follows:
When gifts were delivered to the many orphanages about
Westchester County and New York City, the town trucks
from the Eastehester highway department were heaped with
toys by the Boy Scouts who were Santa’s helpers. At one
orphanage the director asked one of the recreation helpers,
“To whom are we indebted for these hundreds of gifts?”
The recreation director knowing it was a town project hesi-
tated a moment, then replied, “Guess you will have to thank
God, the giver of all things.”—VINCENT D. BELLEW, Direc-
tor, Eastchester Recreation Commission, Tucker/toe, N. Y.

Christmas Aronml-lllc-\Vorld

The Department of Parks and Recreation, Roanoke, Vir-
ginia, began planning for the community Christmas program
in early fall, with the idea of including an activity and event

RECREATon

 

for every group in the city. Instead of having a pageant
based on the Nativity story, since approximately every
church in the city has a pageant of this type, a series of pro-
grams based on Christmas around-thesworld was planned.
Research was done on the customs, costumes, and songs of
Christmas time in other nations. By early October, plans
were made with the churches, schools, and civic choirs to
sing the Christmas folksongs of various countries. A differ-
ent country’s tradition was presented each night in the
series. ‘

The list of Christmas programs and events sponsored and
conducted by the department were as follows:

On December 8, a Christmas party for shut-ins consisted
of a talent show, Christmas carols, and Santa Claus pre-
senting every guest with a gift. Outside agencies including
the Junior League, Civitan Club, Brambleton Road Junior
Women’s Club, and funeral hemes, contributed the refresh-
ments, gifts, and transportation.

On Monday, December 13, through the courtesy of the
local bus company, approximately forty children from the
community centers (ten- to twelve-year-olds) rode through
the downtown streets of Roanoke singing Christmas carols
for the evening shoppers.

In the late afternoon of December 15, the mayor and the
president of the ministerial association presided at “The
Christmas Tree-Lighting Ceremony” on the municipal lawn.
A high school band played and a junior high school choir
sang. The program was broadcast over a local radio station.

Beginning the very next day, December 16, the “Christmas
Around-the-World” program began. It was held on Decem-
ber 16, 17, 20, 21, 22, and 23, from 7:30 to 8:00 PM. Its
setting Was the patio and porch of Roanoke’s beautiful, new
public library in Elmwood Park. The engineering depart-
ment and park division had helped the recreation division
decorate. On the roof of the porch was centered a white star
with four silvered trees on either side. A very unusual and
beautiful effect was achieved by turning different colored
spotlights on each silvered tree. The center of the porch
was lighted with huge outdoor candles flanked on each end
with green trees decorated with colored lights. The stage,
placed in the patio, was decorated with evergreens, and a
large gold picture frame, surrounded by blue lights, was
placed in its center. Except during the actual program each
night, a beautiful picture of the Star of the East, painted by
an employee of the engineering department, hung in the
picture frame. During the program, living pictures re-
placed it, portraying the folk customs of other countries,
while a choir sang their Christmas songs. The choir was ar-
ranged behind the candles on the porch, and a rented organ
was placed just inside the glass doors leadinglto the porch.
A public address system with speakers placed on the roof
carried the organ music into downtown Roanoke.

The countries covered were France, Spain and Mexico,
the Scandinavian countries, Austria, England, Germany, and
the United'StateS.—JUANITA J. HUDSON, Superintendent of
Playgrounds and Community Centers, Roanoke, Virginia.

Four Standard Activities

Santa Claus’ Arrival. Our Christmas program in Louis-

NOVEMBER 1955

of,”

ville, Kentucky, begins with the ofiicial arrival of Santa Claus
via an Eastern Air Lines Constellation. We have handled
this in many different ways in the past eight years; however,
it generally follows the same pattern: Mrs. Santa Claus ar-
rives first in a small plane, followed by Santa in a Constella-
tion. With them, on different years, have come their daugh-
ter Susan Doll, Santa’s elves, Snow White and the Seven
Dwarfs, and other fairyland characters. At the end of the
ceremonies all of the children pass the reviewing stand,
shake hands with Santa, and are given some sort of souvenir.
The program ends with a parade led by Santa to a downtown
location.

Christmas Caravan. This has been our charity project for
many years. Beginning approximately four weeks before the
caravan, all the high schools and related organizations in
the county collect gifts to be taken to Lakeland Mental Hos-
pital. These gifts are packaged and wrapped and kept at
the high schools and grade schools. Upon the day of the
caravan, a parade of decorated cars loaded with gifts is
formed at the recreation office downtown and a complete
route through the county is followed, picking up more cars
loaded with these gifts at each school. The entire caravan,
led by Santa, then goes to Lakeland where the gifts are piled
on the front steps and received by the patients.

Santa Claus Visits. In the weeks preceding Christmas,
Santa Claus makes visits to the schools, upon request, and
acts as the distributor of gifts in each place.

Santa Claus’ House. Two years ago we added a home for
Santa Claus, his wife, and elves in Jefferson County Forest.
Upstairs were Santa’s living room and kitchen, and there he
received the children. Downstairs was his workshop where
his little elves (children from a nearby grade school dressed
in appropriate costumes) were busily making toys, wrap-
ping them in gay Christmas packages and loading them onto
a sleigh ready for Christmas Eve. All of the children in the
county are welcome, admission is free. They take the tour
through the house escorted by teen-age hostesses.

Each year we try to add something new to our Christmas
program. These four activities are now standard and have

Two visitors in Greensboro, North Carolina, eagerly
listen as Santa answers queries about the North Pole.

 

become tradition.——-JANE BROWN, Director Special Activities,
Jefferson County Playground and Recreation Board, Ken-
tucky.

“Hello, Santa!”

Early in December the recreation department in Fort
Lauderdale, Florida, made definite plans for a retired citizen
to play the role of Santa Claus. We arranged a schedule of
visits to all playgrounds, social parties, and to the first, sec-
0nd, and third grades in the eight local elementary schools.
Candy canes and oranges were distributed by Santa to the
children’s groups, inexpensive presents to the adult groups.
We estimate that he shook hands and talked to approximately
4,500 different children and adults in connection with our
program. We first had a short meeting with Santa to dis-
cuss techniques and to coordinate the schedule. The super-
visor of playgrounds picked him up at his home and trans-
ported him to each center, so that he would not visit the
programs alone.

The climax of our Santa program occurred on December
23 and 24, when Santa and Mrs. Santa visited the recreation
department ofiice between 6:30 and 7:30 P.M.—-to answer
telephone calls from youngsters six years old and younger.
The local newspapers carried the story on the front page.
Mrs. Santa answered the incoming calls on two lines and re-
ferred them to Santa. In order to get some human interest
stories, we arranged for the activity secretary to listen in
on an extension and to note unusual requests and also to
count the number of calls for the evening.

Because of the tremendous response, which amounted to
117.,calls on the first day and 141 on the second—a total of
258—Santa was forced to limit his calls to thirty seconds
each.—TEMPLE H. JARRELL, Superintendent of Recreation,

Fort Lauderdale, Florida.

* * * *-

In Greensboro, North Carolina, three thousand young-
sters dialed the recreation department number to talk to
Santa Claus. The department got in touch with Santa on the
seventh of December and asked him to come to the office
every day between ten and twelve noon, and two and four in
the afternoon.

The results had far reaching effects on the happiness of
the boys and girls, on Santa’s voice, and on the regular tele-
phone service. As he talked, Santa obtained mailing ad-
dresses so that he might send the children an attractive green
and red postal card inscribed with his picture and a note
thanking them for phoning, and assuring them that he would
call on Christmas Eve. He mailed 1,800 of these cards;
however, Santa eliminated some expense by addressing
many cards to three or four names. He often found that a
group used a neighborhood phone, and six or seven boys
and girls talked to him at once. His longest conversation
was with a nursery that had lined up thirty-three children.
He also talked to boys and girls who were permanently bed-
ridden, and to countless hundreds of temporary shut-ins. In
all publicity releases. they were especially invited to call.

The children who often have a hesitancy of speech when
confronted with Santa face to face in local department stores,

132

were not bothered by the telephone in their own home and
could unleash all their expectant wishes. About thirty per
cent wanted to ask questions regarding the home life of
Santa at the North Pole. During this time, Santa kept his
reindeer at Greensboro Country Park with the deer in the
department’s zoo display. Many children visited Dancer,
Prancer, and Rudolph.

The recreation department also conducted a Santa letter
service. A mail box with a life size picture of Santa was
placed on the City Hall lawn. Letters to Santa, mailed here,
were answered by the department.

Teen-age clubs conducted dances and parties, and all the
money taken in was given to needy families. The department
also entered Christmas floats in the Christmas parade, with
Santa’s workshop and a cage with live reindeer on top.—
OKA T. HESTER, Director, Parks and Recreation Department,
Greensboro, North Carolina. '

Pageant

Traditional in the holiday life of Oakland, California, is
the “Light of the World” pageant, produced annually since

1925 by the city recreation department, featuring some
1,700 children and youths from fifty to sixty of the public
schools.

Developed from a community sing around the plaza
Christmas tree four decades ago, this now includes a two-
hour dance dramam—an allegory of Christmas time—depict-
ing centuries of Yuletide celebrations and today’s observance
of the birth of Christ.

In a series of twenty-five dance numbers—ballets, marches,
minuets, polkas, and waltzes—youngsters from kindergarten
through high school portray the symbols of the season—the

The Santa Claus Mailbox in Torrington, Connecticut.
The letters are read over the special radio in famed
“Christmas Village,” which is Santa’s home. See
Recreation, November 1949, for story of its sh”.

 

rain, wind, sunrays, thunderbolts, frost, and snowflakes;
the Yule symbols such as bells, reindeer, holly and mistle-
toe, sleighs and evergreens, and hundreds of Santa’s toys.
Dance grOUps vary in size with from three to three hundred
and fifty participants in a number. The pageant story is nar-
rated and all dances done with orchestral accompaniment.
Performances are held on two evenings in the municipal
auditorium arena. An a cappella choir of eighty voices sings
before and during the pageant. '

Beginning in late September, the young actors and sing-
ers rehearse at their schools and get together only once for
a group rehearsal the week before pageant time. There is
no dress rehearsal and participants don their costumes for
the first time at the first evening presentation. Costumes
are fitted in the department’s costumes service rooms where
they are kept exclusively for the festival.

Gayest and merriest of the episodes is the arrival of Santa
with his bags of toys which come to life around the huge
Christmas tree. Climax of the pageant is.the gathering of
three hundred and fifty tiny ballerinas of pre-school and
kindergarten-age around the Spirit of Christmas. Kneeling,
they sing “Silent Night” before the tableaux of the Nativity.

Parents of the cast are guests, as are residents of children’s
homes and veterans from local hospitals. Other seats are

sold at fifty cents and a dollar to help defray production
costs. Capacity crowds of more than ten thousand witness

the yearly performances.——-FLORENCE BIRKHEAD, Recreation
Department, Oakland, California.

Yearly Activities

The thirty-three community centers in Richmond, Vir-
ginia, where teen-age social activities flourish, have their

A board member meets a miniature Santa as he comes
down the chimney at Madison Square Boys Club party
in New York. He delivers presents, which were made by
the hovs in the club’s popular workshop, to parents.

---

 

Christmas parties in center buildings and in school gymna-
siums, with decorations prepared by the members themselves,
refreshments served by the center’s advisory council, live
music furnished by the local musicians’ association. The
city department of recreation and parks directs and super-
vises the entire program.

The department has become the focal point of Richmond’s
Christmas, the hub in the wheel around which the commu-
nity’s Christmas programs revolve. Its services, like the rays
of the Christmas star, stretch forth to guide and help the
churches, the schools, the clubs, and the industries that are
planning Christmas celebrations: the special services staff is
helping an industry plan a Christmas party for hundreds of
employees and their families; Monroe Community Center
chorus is presenting programs of carols at churches and hos-
pitals; Handel’s Messiah with a community chorus of more
than one hundred voices will be presented free to the public;
it is assisting the Richmond Choral Society with its Christ-
mas concert; it is preparing for the mid-holiday “Club 16”
dance for Richmond’s high-school boys and girls. It’s a
very busy department at Christmas time.

The department sweeps off the “Welcome” mat for the
churches, schools, and clubs that come to it for scripts for
Christmas plays, Christmas carols, songsheets, suggestions
for Christmas parties, and the hundreds of costumes loaned
to them during December by the costume service division of

the department.

At the Maymont Nature Center in beautiful Maymont
Park, the department presents tableaux of the Nativity with
a musical background; at the carillon in Byrd Park it assists
the Richmond Federation of Garden Clubs with their display
of Christmas arrangements; at Mary Munford school audi-
torium it presents the Junior Curtain-Timers, its teen-age
drama group, in their pre-Christmas production.

Its program finally reaches its climax at six o’clock on
Christmas Eve at the carillon in Byrd Park, where last year
the department presented the twenty-sixth annual Christmas
pageant of “The Nativity” before several thousand specta-
tors. The age-old story is unfolded under winter skies with
a choir of singers from all of Richmond’s churches, with a
cast of more than a hundred, under the auspices of a lay
committee from the Council of Churchwomen, the Ministerial
Union, the Federation of Parent-Teacher Associations, the
Retail Merchants, the Council of Women’s Organizations,
and the Inter-Club Council. All of these people have put
aside this half-hour in the midst of their personal activities to
come together to oflicially give Richmond’s holiday season
the real meaning of Christmas.

As the familiar strains of the carols are sung by a hun-
dred voices, as the beautiful words of St. Luke are read by
the narrator, as the glowing robes of the Wise Men and the
Madonna’s blue veil are revealed by the spotlights, and as
the whole carillon tower—from the star, which gleams at its
top, to the angels which bank its walls, to the red-robed choir
at its base—is illuminated, we are once more glad that in
Richmond the Christmas traditions and the Christmas spirit
still live among its people.—J. A. REYNOLDS, Director, De-

partment of Recreation and Parks, Richmond, Virginia.

433

How To Do 1T? b 

 

   
      

Materials

Phoféqraph or Drawing -

Window Glass-Whii'c Posier Coior~
Waiér Color Brush —- Larqe Needle--

Corbon Paper~ Pho’ro Paper and
Con‘bd’ Prird’inq Equipment

Whr'fe

 

/ Fbsfer (0/6?
METHOD
LCover one side of window glass wii'h solid cooking— 0F posi‘er color.
#5
2.'E-an3¥er drawiqqio poini'eol side 0? giass. . ’ nggw

  

Ora w/ho

    

Carbon Pap er

' /

3.\A/H'h Iarqe needle frace ‘l’he carbon lines showing on pain‘i’. Hold glass up
i'o quhi’ To check scra‘i’ched line drawing on qla ‘ , i \ Mead/e

  
   
  
    
  

4-.Usinq sensii’iged photographic
paper prini’ 0.5 mang copies as
qou need ~ use coni’aci‘ pho’roqraphic

prini’inq me+hod.

co verea’
u/l'r’h wbz'f'e
posf'er co /or'

4&5 Warning: [Be sure drawth

or pbo/o’gmpb ae/ec/éa’ f8 correcf
age (to/7m moan/69¢) /é 1’77‘ MVe/qoe.

Noi'e: Ang \‘me drawing can be prini’ed b3 +his me’rhod.

434 RECREATION

 

[ I

--_- --

BOOKBINDING

There’s real satisfaction in binding
a book. It may be a treasure you’ve had
for years that needs a new cover, or a
book you have made yourself—illustra-
tions, printing, and all. Many years
ago, bookbinders were craftsmen im-
portant to the community becaiise each
book was a work of art. Recently, in-
terest has been renewed in this art and
artistic book covers are displayed at
craftsmen’s shows. "

This article describes just the most
elementary steps in bookbinding that

' may be used to make a simple booklet,

a portfolio, a book cover, or a scrap-

book.

Description of Materials

Heavy cardboard — about 1A; - 1/4
inch in thickness. Chip board is usually

used. This can be purchased in art sup-
ply stores. Ask for it by the thickness
desired. It is best out with a sharp knife
or single-edged razor blade.

Vegetable glue or white paste. (This
recipe for rye flour paste can also be

used.)

2 tablespoons rye flour
1/1. teaspoon alum

1 cup water

Few drops oil of cloves

Mix flour, alum, and enough water to make
smooth cream. Add remaining water, cook
over low heat until it is like thin white sauce
and is translucent. Long, slow cooking in-
creases stickiness. Remove from stove and
add oil of cloves. The mixture can be kept
for a year in a closed jar in refrigerator.
(Cloves prevent the paste from spoiling.)

Binder’s linen—a specially prepared

material used for the spine of the book.

It may be purchased at art supply stores
or bookbinders. Or, use any firm but

THINGS TO MAKE

Simple Booklet

This little booklet is simple but it is a good introduction to the art of bookbinding.
A little book can have a variety of uses: for notes, telephone numbers, or addresses.

You can also use the same method to make a much larger booklet. You will need:
Several layers of unruled paper cut the same size (about 6 x 5 inches)

Thin cardboard or heavy paper 8 x 7 inches

Needle and strong thread.

You can put the cover decoration directly on the heavy paper or cover the thin

cardboard with paper or fabric.

Cut the paper or fabric one inch larger than cardboard on all sides, glue to card-

board, mitering corners.

Line the cover with the lightweight fabric to within 1/3 inch of edges.

Fold the pages and the cover in the center. Open them and hold them flat. Punch

Recipes for FUN

not bulky cotton or linen fabric such as
denim, cotton twill, Indian head. Light-
weight leather can also be used.

Lining—any smooth fabric that is
not bulky or sleazy. Use one of those
named above, or broadcloth, percale,
chintz. The lining can also be a pliable,
opaque, decorative paper.

Decorative cover—a wide choice of
materials. You may use any of the
fabrics mentioned above plus burlap,
thin leathers, and many types of deco-
rative papers that are pliable—wallpa-
per, imported Italian or Japanese pa-
pers, marbleized papers, and so on.

Shellac or plastic spray—for paper
covers, to give a protective coat from
soil and iingermarks.

In addition you will need scissors,
punch, ruler, wax paper, clean cloths.

a hole (with a large needle) through them in the center of the fold of the inner page.

Punch two corresponding holes above and below the center, equally spaced until
five holes have been made. Start sewing at the inner center of the book, leaving suf-
ficient thread to be tied later. Carry thread through the center hole out of the cover,
in again thrOugh the next hole, and out the next. Sew in and out up to the top hole,
down the bottom and back to the center. When the thread returns to the center, loop
it over the sewed portion and tie with a firm double knot. Keep the thread taut but
do not pull tightly because the thread will cut the paper. Fold the book into position
and put under a weight to dry.

 

Portfolio

You can make a portfolio of any size. Measure the pictures you want to protect
with a portfolio and cut your pieces in the same proportion as those given below.

You can use either cloth or paper for the cover and for the lining, so we will refer
to these as the covering and lining material, whichever it may be.

The pictures to go into this portfolio are 11 x 14 inches. The first step is to cut:

2 pieces of heavy cardboard, 12 x 15 inches 2 pieces of material for cover, 12% x 17 inches
1 outside hinge cloth, 3%: x 16 inches 2 lining pieces, 11 x 14% inches
1 hinge cloth lining, 31/; x 15 inches 6 tapes, 5 inches long

These figures are, of course, just guides to help you with your first project. You
can vary the dimensions, and make such changes as putting the cover or lining (if it’s
fabric) and hinge all in one.

Glue the hinge to the front and back covers so that the hinge extends one inch over
each cardboard. ‘

Glue the hinge lining in place, then glue down the extending ends of the hinge
cloth. To place the tapes, mark a point on the inside covers one inch from the center
of the top, bottom, and open side. Glue the tapes at this point, and glue a small piece
of lightweight fabric over the tapes.

The cover material needs to be very smooth and straight. Make sure your hands

435

  

NOVEMBER. '1955

Recipes for FUN —

are clean and that you have a clean cloth nearby. The cover material is cut so that
it extends one inch beyond the top, bottom, and open end. The side coming to the
hinge is turned under 14 inch and extends 1/4 inch over the hinge. (In order to get
a smooth fold on paper, draw the fold line with a dull table knife on the wrong side
of the paper.) Spread the paste smoothly over the outside of one cover board. Place
the cover material in place, and carefully smooth with a clean cloth from the center
to the edges to remove bumps and bubbles. Cover the other board in the same man-
ner. When both are glued in place, glue down the extending inch, mitering the
corners. Smooth these sections also, this time from the outside in.

The lining is glued in place so that it comes to about 1/3 inch from three sides and
just slightly laps over the hinge lining cloth. Again smooth after glueing in place.

Cover the inside covers with wax paper and place under a weight to dry. Place
the fabric hinge inside the covers before putting under the weight. This will give it
an even crease. It should dry a day or two for best results. Whenever you use fabric,
be sure it is cut and pasted with the weave going straight up and down.

Book Cover

This book cover is made on exactly the same principles as the other bindings. It is
an excellent cover for a book that you want to protect or for one that you want to
make better looking—perhaps a telephone book.

Measure the book for which you are making a cover. Take exact measurements
of the cover and the depth of the book. Let us assume that the book you are covering
measures 51/2 x 8% inches and is 1%, of an inch thick. You would, therefore, cut:

 

2 coverboards, 6 x 9 inches 1 piece hinge cloth lining, 9 x 3 inches

1 cardboard for back (spine), 9 x 1 inches 1 back cardboard lining, 9/2 x 11/; inches
1 thin cardboard, 81/2 at 374 inches 2 pieces cover material, 61/2 x 11 inches

1 piece hinge cloth, 11 x 31/2 inches 2 pieces cover lining, 5 x 9 inches

5 cords, 2 times length of book plus enough to knot

Assemble the book cover in the following steps:

1. Glue two cover cardboards and one back cardboard On the hinge cloth so that
hinge cloth extends one inch over each cover board and there is 14 inch between
covers and back board. Turn down, and glue extending ends of hinge cloth.

2. Glue the lining of the hinge in place.

3. Glue cover material in place. Turn cover material under 14 inch on length,
bringing folded edge 14 inch over hinge, miter corners, fold over and glue.

4. Glue lining of covers in place to within 1/3 inch of edges of three sides.

5. Cover thin cardboard with lining material.

6. Glue cords in place on back cardboard.

7. Cover the cords with the thin cardboard piece, wrong side glued against cords.

8. Place wax paper over entire piece, put weight in center, and let dry for one or
two days.

9. Insert book in cover and tie with the cords.

 

Scrapbook

Is there anyone who doesn’t collect something? Some pcOple like poems, leaves,
clippingg or pictures, but practically everyone can use a goodlooking scrapbook.
Let us assume for this project we have pages 10 x 14- inches. Cut the following:

1 piece heavy cardboard, 101/; x 14% inches 1 piece binder’s linen, 2% x 151/; inches
1 piece heavy cardboard, 11/; x 14% inches 2 pieces cover material, 121/2 x 16% inches
1 piece heavy cardboard, 8% x 141/2 inches 2 pieces lining cloth, 101%.) x 141/.) inches

1 cord, 2 times the length plus enough to knot

Assemble these pieces in the following steps:

1. Glue the cardboards 8% x 141/; and 11/2 x 141/; to the hinge fabric leaving a
14-inch space between boards.

2. Turn down extensions and glue. ,

3. Cover front and back cardboards as for book cover.

4. Line covers as for book cover.

5. Punch holes in back cardboard and narrow part of front cardboard to cor-
respond.

6. Cover with wax paper and place under weight to dry.

7. Place paper in position and lace with cord.

The shellac or plastic spray can be used on a paper cover for added protection.

This type of scrapbook can be made with wood. Instead of making the hinge from
binder’s linen use small metal hinges from a hardware store or make leather hinges
and screw on with tiny screws. Drill holes and lace with leather thonging.

 

Reprinted with permission from Exploring the Handcrafts by Corinne Murphy. Girl Scouts of
the U.S.A. , 155 East 44th Street, New York 17. [1955] $.65.

 

436 ' RECREATION

 

Close Cooperation

in PLA NNING

A Report on School-City Cooper-
ation in Livingston, New Jersey.

SEVERAL years ago in order to protect the community from
problems connected with rapid development, the town
fathers of Livingston, New Jersey, hired a recognized plan-
ning authority to prepare a long-range plan for the develop-
ment of public school, park and recreation, and shopping
center locations. To further implement the planning, a com-
mittee for the acquisition of park and school sites was
formed. The chairman of the recreation commission is
presently serving as chairman of the acquisition committee.
The objective of this committee is to acquire a minimum of
approximately twenty acres for each new school site, which
would be incorporated in the plan of adequate park and rec-
reation facilities.’ In cases where the board of education is
unable to acquire the necessary acreage the town is to ex-
pand the area to the desired acreage.

However, the basic problem facing the governing authori-
ties in the township is how to provide the necessary recrea-
tion opportunities and facilities in view of the expanded
board of education budget. In 1954-55 the board of educa-
tion expended over $2,150,000 in the construction of new
schools and additional classroom space to keep pace with
the rapidly increasing population. Over five hundred new
homes are constructed annually in this town of fourteen
square miles and present population of 16,000.

To cope with the problem the board of education and the
board of recreation commissioners spent several months
studying the functions of both boards in relation to the rec-
reation program and the maintenance of its facilities. Since
both organizations use one another’s facilities mutual coop-
eration was a natural outcome. The board of recreation
commissioners made the first overtures by preparing a bro-
chure stating proposed policies, services being offered to
the board of education by the recreation and parks depart-
ment, a maintenance agreement on the joint use of school
grounds and copies of the present material available through
the National Recreation Association on joint use of school
facilities. Particularly helpful were George Butler’s School-
City Cooperation in the Planning of Recreation Areas and
Facilities and School Grounds Designed for Community Use,

 

ROBERT D. SISCO is superintendent of the recreation and
parks department, Livingston, New Jersey.

NoyEMBER 1955

Robert D. Sisco

the material assembled and summarized by H. Clifton
Hutchins in the “Use of School Buildings for Recreation”
which appeared in the December 1950 issue of RECREATION
magazine, and the summary of the panel discussion at
the Philadelphia Congress on “School-City Cooperation in
Providing Areas and Facilities for Recreation,” along with
several other articles from various magazines.

Following months of study the following resolution was
adopted by both boards:

“WHEREAS: The Board of Recreation Commissioners and the
Board of Education are both public bodies with different spheres
of public service and separately govern their properties, and
WHEREAS, it is recognized, both by the Board of Education and
the Board of Recreation Commissioners in Livingston, that the
development of school plants and recreational areas for joint use
is a sound practice;

WHEREAS, certain school facilities are now in use by the Rec-
reation and Parks Department; and certain recreation facilities
are in use by the Board of Education;

WHEREAS, the practice of establishing school plants and neigh-
borhood playgrounds for joint use will effect a direct saving to the
citizens of Livingston;

THEREFORE, be it resolved, that in the interest of better service
and greater economy to the community the executive staffs of each
board shall study ways and means, develop and recommend plans
and policies for the establishment of school and recreational

facilities and sites.”

The following policies were adopted to guide the execu-
tive staffs of each organization:

0 The school buildings and facilities shall be made avail-
able to the Recreation Commission at no charge for heat,
light, and general utilities.

0 The Recreation Commission shall pay for all custodial
help necessary during the time the buildings or facilities are
being used by the Recreation Department.

0 The Recreation Commission shall be responsible for the
property being used and the supervision of all their pro-
grams and activities.

0 All applications for the use of the school buildings shall
be cleared through the Board of Education offices.

0 The Board of Education shall be responsible for develop-
ing, expanding and general control of all school grounds
unless otherwise stated.

0 During the school term it is assumed that the school pro-
gram will be using the grounds the majority of the time.
However, all school grounds, play areas and ball diamonds
shall be made available to the Recreation Commission for

437

 

any part of their program during this period so long as it
does not interfere' with the public school program. Ar-
rangements for the same by the Recreation Commission can
be made by filing a request direct to the Board of Education
offices. No charge shall be made to the Recreation Commis-
sion for the use of thegrounds during this period. The
Board of Education willbe fully responsible for all repairs,
care and maintenance of said grounds with each board tak-
ing care of their special needs of their particular program.
0 During the summer months the Recreation Commission
shall be in full charge and have full responsibility of all play
areas and outside athletic fields during this period. Said
Recreation Commission will be fully responsible for the
maintenance, care and up-keep of the grounds being used
for their program during these months. In cases where al-
terations of grounds or special improvements are necessary
for the recreation program, all changes shall be approved
by the Board of Education before same are made by the Rec-
reation Commission. The Board of Recreation Commission-
ers shall be granted the privilege of using school facilities,
such as toilets and storage space as needed during their sum-
mer program.

0 Scheduling and control of said grounds shall be under
the direction of the Recreation Commission. Any other

9W We

groups or organizations from Livingston desiring school
grounds during these months shall apply directly to the Rec-
reation Commission for use of the same. Any special, un-
usual or doubtful applications other than for recreational
purposes for use of the grounds during this period shall be
cleared through the Board of Education thces.

The Board of Education readily recognizes the need for
coordination of both bodies. AccOrdingly, the following is
proposed for the mutual benefit of both groups:

The Board of Education would appreciate the cooperation
of the Recreation Department in performing special work
during the summer months as well as on special occasions
during the school year, such as mowing lawns, special main-
tenance work, expansion of play areas, development of atho
letic fields, and so on. Requests made of the Recreation
Commission for maintenance services by the Board of Edu-
cation will be subject to full compensation at regular rates.
All work done or special services rendered shall be itemized
on the standard invoice form and accordingly paid for by
check.

In the planning and projecting of physical and recrea-
tional facilities for new buildings and grounds or in the re-
making of old the assistance and cooperation of the Recrea-
tion Commission shall be solicited. O

Beatrice H. Hill

Goldwater’s Wheel Chair Olympics

Written by James Ryan, patient at
Goldwater Memorial Hospital, Welfare
Island, New York.

Goldwater Memorial Hospital is the
first hospital built from public funds
for the treatment of those suffering
from disorders of a chronic nature. All
but a few of its patients spend their
days in wheelchairs.
program for this “Community on
Wheels” was founded by Beatrice Hill

less than a decade ago, and is now

under the leadership of John J. Gehan.

Our recent carnival set a “high water

The recreation

mark” for special events. Participants
as well as spectators Spent a colorful
and happy day under the sunny Sep-
tember skies. In keeping with the trend
toward that which is timely, the festi-
val hore the name “Wheelchair Olym-
pics.” Each of the four buildings of the
hospital was represented by a team.
Under a canopy of flags from all na-
tions, the various events were held on

MRS. HILL is the NRA consultant on
hospital recreation

438

the driveway which is a part of the ter-
race. Enthusiastic onlookers from the
many porches cheered their favorites as
the events were run off.

All entrants participated in their
There were wheelchair
sprints, relays, obstacle races, and a
novelty event in which two wheelchairs
were joined together. For the less
hearty participants, there was a water-

wheelchairs.

melon and pie-eating contest, and word-
games for those whose physical capaci-
ties are limited. A wheelchair game re-
sembling the old-time party favorite,
“Going to Jerusalem,” enabled every-
body —— regardless of disabilities — to
participate. Volunteers acting as wheel-
chair chauffeurs, provided ready and
willing hands where need of help was
indicated. In keeping with the carnival
theme, a supply depot of hot-dogs,
punch, and ice cream was handily ad-
jacent. While wheelchair athletes took
time out between events, the New York
City Fire Department Band added to
the festive air.

Recreation under the Goldwater plan
is so designed as to allow the patients

self-help. Each of the four teams repre-
sented had a captain who assumed the
responsibility of having his teammates
available when needed. James Seaborn,
a rheumatoid arthritic, handled the
public-address system, acting as an-
nouncer, startei‘, and scorekeeper.

An affair of this nature is not an
attempt at a substitute for reality, but
finds its purpose in bringing about a

' happier and more complete community.

Woven throughout the day’s program
was the golden thread of therapy that
improves morale and stimulatcs imagi-
nation. The creation of an even greater
bond between the volunteers and the
patients cemented that relationship with
memories that are mutually pleasant.
Here was an event where everyone play.
ed a part and each could say the job
was well done.

[The group of patient representatives
of the recreation program at Goldwater
will long be remembered by delegates
to the 35th National Recreation Con-
gress in Philadelphia, 1953, where this
group appeared and described their
program. See RECREATION, December,

themselves the maximum amount of 1953.—Ed.]

RECREATION

Research Program

of the

asociation is continuing to collect similar
data in the expectation that a list of
projects completed in 1955 will be pub-
_ ,. 3 ‘ lished early next year.

In order to share with persons inter-
, ested in recreation the results of un-
Snags Sleig is a reaIOIdeas‘ usual research, a section, Research Re-
fellow, proving to children hey , views and Abstracts, has been set aside
I - in RECREATION and summarizes reports
of unusual interest or significance. Dur-
ing the past year, several publications

libased on research have been reviewed

  
 
   

'" R. H. Ahernethy

AT CHRISTMAS times IUSt '50 Prove it: in this magazine by members of the
he comes to our community in the f National Advisory Committee.

It, flesh. With a population of thirty thou-
' sand, Oxnard, California, is full of chil-
j; dren who believe in him because the

I‘

3 parks and recreation department helps 5

Cooperative Research Projects
'_ Several minor studies have been con-
ducted by the Association in the past
two years, but its major research efforts
have been devoted to cooperative proj-

ects. One of these, relating to hospital

_ to make him real.

‘6. Santa Claus is for little children and
it is for them that we do so much fuss-
iing about the details of his visit. Each “ recreation in action, was designed to
year the department, with the help of ascertain the effect of a hospital recrea-
gthe city garage, the chamber of com- ‘ tion program on the psychological, so-
,merce, the Elks, the churches, and Bob 'cial, and medical adjustment of cer-

lChapman, a local citizen who started tain hospital patients and to compare

j all this, takes great care just to make ktheir adjustment to that of similar pa-
Christmas real for the people of the city. ltients not exposed to a hospital recrea-

I
1.

fl

Late in November, after Thanksgiv- ition Program' This ProleCt is being

ing9 the first work begins when thou- j, conducted, through funds made avail-
sands of colored lights are strung on "L: able to the Association, under dII‘CCtIOIl

My *  """"'“  ""'" ““" ~‘ of a New York University staff member.
" Clearmg House 011 Recreatlon A comprehensive study of recreation
3353311311 in the South, the results of which were

published under the title Recreation as
a Profession in the Southern Region,**
was made in cooperation with the South-

At the request of its National Ad-

visory Committee, the Association in
1954 established a “Clearing House on

Recreation Research.” Its purpose and
function were described in “A Research
Clearing House,” page 333, RECREA-
TION, June 1954. A bulletin listing
more than two hundred reports, com-
pleted in 1953 and 1954 and classified
according to eighteen headings, has
been issued by the Association.* The
list, although incomplete, affords a rec-
ord of the growing number of studies
made in the recreation field. The As-

* “Research in Recreation Completed in
1953 and 1954-,” P 230. Price $1.00.

NOVEMBER 1955

cm Regional Education Board.
Another example of cooperative re-
search is the study of outdoor swim-
ming pools sponsored by a committee
of the Conference for National Cooper-
ation in Aquatics, an organization com-
posed of some twenty national organiza-
tions interested in one or more phases
of aquatics. The Association’s research
director served as chairman of the com-
mittee and director of the study, the

:""‘Available from the National Recreation
Association. Price $3.75.

' National Recreation Association

results of which are to be issued soon.

Sponsorship of a study of fees and
charges in public recreation and park
systems, to be conducted by a recrea-
tion executive seeking a doctoral degree
at New York University, has recently
been approved by the Association. As-
sistance to candidates planning research
proects in partial fulfillrnent for gradu-
ate degrees has often been offered by
the Association. Its active sponsorship
of the fees and charges, however, is in
the nature of an experiment. If it proves
successful, it may pave the way to an ex-
panded program of cooperative research
on the graduate level.

A further evidence of the Associa-
tion’s desire to assist in providing in-

. formation considered essential by recre-

ation and park leaders is the recent ap-
pointment of a subcommittee of its Na-
tional Advisory Committee on Recrea-
tion Research to make a study of unit
costs of maintaining recreation areas
and facilities. This study, which is now
under way, was undertaken at the spe-
cific request of recreation executives.

A major research project, now in the
planning stage, is a nation wide inven-
tory of community and county recrea-
tion and park services. Like its prede-
cessor, the Recreation and Park Year-
book, the study will cover such factors
as management, leadership, personnel,
activities, expenditures, and facilities.
The National Advisory Committee on
Recreation Administration, under the
leadership of George Hjelte, general
manager of the Los Angeles Department
of Recreation and Parks, has rendered
effective assistance in determining the
nature and scope of the inquiry. Many
state recreation authorities and organ-
izations have also indicated a readiness
to assist in conducting the study. It is
believed that the results will afford valu-
able data as to the status of the recrea-
tion and park movement at the end of
1955 and the basis for determining re-
cent trends and developments.

439

 

F ringe-Area Problems

Russell J. F oval, superintendent of recreation in De-
catur, Illinois, has completed a Master of Science thesis
report for the University of Illinois entitled “An Analysis
of Fringe Area Recreation Problems in Relation to Tax-
Supported Recreation Services in Selected Illinois Commu-
nities.” In view of the widespread interest in providing rec-
reation for fringe areas, the following section is of interest:

“CONCLUSIONS: (1) Public recreation executives, school

ofiicials, and authorities in government are in agreement that
fringe area problems, because of their relationship to munic-
ipal government, are in need of immediate attention. (2) A
limited number of park districts or school districts have taken
definite responsibility for providing professional. recreation
leadership and recreation program services to people living
within their districts. On the other hand, numerous park
districts and school districts have accepted little or no re-
sponsibility for recreation program services of any kind. (3)
Only a limited number of school districts, park districts, and
city park departments cooperate very closely with existing
municipal recreation departments. (4) Many cities, towns,
villages, and park districts have failed to take advantage of
existing enabling legislation that allows them to provide
local recreation services. In many instances, local referenda
requesting the approval to establish organized public recre-
ation program services have been voted down by the people.
(5) In a few instances, contractual agreements between
fringe area residents and public recreation agencies for the
provision of recreation services have been quite satisfactory.
Unfortunately, most communities have not taken full advan-
tage of this method of alleviating the fringe area recreation
problem. (6) Officials of municipalities and fringe area resi-
dents have been extremely hesitant about encouraging an-
nexation of land to incorporated areas as a solution to fringe
area problems. (7) Fringe area residents now receive very
few recreation services that are being provided within incor-
porated areas chiefly because municipalities do not have the
money to provide these added services.”

A History of Parks and Recreation

So often we would like to refresh our memories regarding
the fundamental history and philosophy of the park and rec-
reation movement in the United States. Normally, this has
been a laborious task since no single volume has treated the
subject thoroughly. However, in A Brief History of Parks
and Recreation In the United States by Charles E. Doell and

 

MR. BUTLER is director of the NRA Research Department.

440

REVIEWS AND ABSTRACTS

5.0 U

 p M I. with groups:
cation would appreciate the cooperation
Gerald B. Fitzgeral ‘ epartment in performing special work
we will, without en t months as well as on special occasions
history of both the) 'ar, such as mowing lawns, special main-
This book pulls tinsion of play areas, development of ath-
ments leading up to_ on. Requests made of the Recreation
recreation, Mr, Daintenance services by the Board of Edu-
Board of Park Ceject to full compensation at regular rates.
thority the definitsPecial services rendered shall be itemized
ment in foreign pvoice form and accordingly paid for by
America which ult
ceptance of activg and projecting of physical and recrea-
through his histoif new buildings and grounds or in the re-
and parkways, botl assistance and cooperation of the Recrea-
provided practica1;hallbe solicited. 0
thought to be of g1

/.
i.

n —.‘

 

morial, parks and
the emphasis on Big;
time.”

Dr. Fitzgerald, (13
versity of Minnesot,
the colonial period
other things the 

movement, munici

Beatrice H. Hill

 

self-help. Each of the four teams repre-
sented had a captain who assumed the
responsibility of having his teammates
dustrial recreatio,‘ available when needed. James Seaborn,
ments. Probably . a rheumatoid arthritic, handled the
gerald’s treatise is} public-address system, acting as an-

- o
of recreation l nouncer, starter, and scorekeeper.

Every park and 1
prehend this fundai: attempt at a substitute for reality, but

two outstanding pra finds its purpose in bringing about a
E. OWENS, Director-iii} Parks, Pleasure Driveway and'Pé'rt
District, Peoria, Illinois.

An affair of this nature is not an

Standards Report

A “Standards Report,” issued by the Michigan Recreation
Association in 1955, contains information with reference to
several aspects of personnel in forty-one Michigan cities.
The data relate primarily to the positions of recreation ex-
ecutive, assistant executive and supervisor and cover such
items as salary, sick leave, vacation, pension, degree, years
in recreation and in the present position.

The average salary reported for recreation executives was
$6,450 per year with an average of $7,546 in seven cities of
80,000 and over. The average salary of the assistant was
$4,749. Playground salaries varied widely, but the average
was $58.00 per week. The average salary paid community
center workers was about $2.50 per hour. Officials in men’s
“Class A” baseball earned Up to $10.00 per game. The aver-
age rate paid sports ofiicials was $6.00 per game.

RECREATION

I»

i

‘1

 

 

Santa’ sleigh is a real old-fashioned cutter and Santa himself is a jolly
fellow, proving to children beyond a doubt there really is a Santa Claus.

R. H. Abernethy

Ar CHRISTMAS time, just to prove it,
he comes to our community in the
Hesh. With a population of thirty thou-
sand, Oxnard, California, is full of chil-
dren who believe in him because the
parks and recreation department helps
to make him real.

Santa Claus is for little children and
it is for them that we do so much fuss-
ing about the details of his visit. Each
year the department, with the help of
the city garage, the chamber of com-
merce, the Elks, the churches, and Bob
Chapman, a local citizen who started
all this, takes great care just to make
Christmas real for the people of the city.

Late in November, after Thanksgiv-
ing, the first work begins when thou-
sands of colored lights are strung on

four star pines in Plaza Park-i“ Each“

tree is over one hundred feet tall.
Beautiful chime and organ music softly
plays traditional Christmas carols over
a public-address system and, each night,
the churches send carolers to sing in the
center of the park where the gaily be~
decked pagoda provides the setting.
Beneath the low branches of pine and
pittosporum is the most thrilling sight
of all. It is the Nativity scene of full-
sized figures donated by the merchant
division of the Chamber of Commerce.

There is Mary, with the Christ Child in
the manger, and Joseph stands at their

MR. ABERNETHY is superintendent of
the parks and recreation department in
Oxnard, California.

NOVEMBER 1955

side. Hovering above the manger is an
angel and the bright Star of the East.
Three full-sized camels are led by the
Wise Men, toward the manger, and the
sheep-herder with his Hock joins them.
There are a full sized cow and a burro
too, and all are floodlighted at night.
' During the next few weeks other pre-
parations are under way. A direct line
is installed to the North Pole, and chil-
dren telephone Santa in person. The
voice on the phone, just for authen-
.ticity, has a soft Norwegian accent.
 A few days before school closes,
Santa comes to town to greet the tiny
tots. This gives the pre—school children

much better chance to meet him on
intimate terms, to sit in his sleigh with
him, and to let Mom and Dad take a
picture of the wonderful occasion.

In a shed, at the city garage, there is
a lot of fuss going on, for here is where
Santa’s float is being built. About thirty
feet long and fourteen feet wide, the
vehicle resembles a sparkling snow
bank with gaily decorated Christmas
trees. On its highest point is Santa’s
sleigh — a real, old-fashioned cutter,
painted red and gold, silver and black,
with the eight tiny reindeer floating
through the air over the tree tops.

Santa, of course, rides in his sleigh.
He is a little old elf with a nose like a
cherry, and when he laughs, he shakes,
like a bowl full of jelly. His costume
was donated by the Elks lodge and cost
one hundred and eighty-five dollars.
The suit is velvet, and the belt is patent
leather, six inches wide, with a huge
silver buckle. The wig and beard are

      

k

Santa Claus
REAL

“I f Davy Crockett, Flash

Gordon and Superman were
all wrapped up in one pack-
age children would still take
Santa Claus.”

I"

, - l a "V
 I '
I
x. 3"
O;  x
f~  *
. {t .

2’

Jr

  
   
 

made of real hair, white, full and wavy
———and if you don’t think Santa is real,
you’re zany.

On the evenings of December 22, 23,
and 24, Santa’s Hoat travels through all
neighborhoods of the city. Mounted on
a specially-built motor vehicle, it is self-
propelled, contains its own Hoodlight-
ing system and public address system
over which Santa talks. Carols, espe-
cially “Jingle Bells,” are played as it
slowly travels along the streets. Porch
lights go on and doors fly open as par-
ents madly bundle up the little tots and
bring them out to see.

If you want a lump in your throat and
a song in your heart, drive the float
some night and look into the faces of
children entranced by the thrilling
spectacle. Honestly, it is worth ten mil-

lion dollars. . . . Merry Christmas!

4-41

 

P E B S 0 N N E L

Fourth National Conference
on Health

The Fourth National Conference on
Health was held in May 1954. The N a-
tional Recreation Association, in coop-
eration with its National Advisory Com-
mittee on Recruitment, Training, and
Placement, participated. A 211-page
report of the conference was published
by the American College Health Asso-
ciation in April 1955.

Nearly fifty sponsoring agencies ap-
pointed representatives to plan the total
conference. Approximately forty indi-
viduals participated as members of the
committee on “Contributions of Physi-
cal Education and Recreation to the
College Health Program.” This com-
mittee’s findings take up fourteen pages
of the published report. Although physi-
cal education and recreation are closely
allied, both fields maintained their own
identity throughout.

The pattern of organization of the
recreation section took the following
form: (1) introduction, (2) impact
of social, economic, and political forces
on the health of college students and
staff personnel, (3) contributions of
physical education and recreation to
the general education of college stu-
dents, (4) implementation of physical
education and recreation programs, and
(5) evaluation.

The development of the third section
was done by taking the objectives of
education proposed by the President’s
Commission on Higher Education and
showing the contributions which rec-
reation (and physical education) make
toward the attainment of these goals.

For college and school recreation
personnel, especially, the analysis of
how recreation contributes to those ob-
jectives provides a sound basis for ex-
tending planning of total community
education. Municipal recreation per-
sonnel should find valuable background
materials here. Correctly interpreted,

442

these-materials provide a sound justifi-
cation for recreation per se, as well as
a legitimate approach for encouraging
others to participate in developing rec-
reation to its fullest, either as paid or
volunteer leaders.

It should be realized by all concerned
that the authority behind this report is
most significant, both because of the
caliber of the people who contributed to
the report and because of the strength
and status of the agencies that cooper-
ated to make the conference possible.
Three statements which follow serve as

examples of the content of this report:

I. . . . The student soon realizes: (1) the
therapeutic value of the release of energy,
(2) the emotional release through relaxing
leisure, (3) the satisfaction of sharing with
others, (4) the need for solving safety prob-
lems, and (5) the need for broad recreation
programs at all government levels.1

II. The student learns through the recrea-
tion program to understand: (1) his limita-
tions and the health consequences of the mis-
use of recreation, (2) the application of re-
search findings regarding health to the con—
duct of his own leisure, (3) the relationship of
unhealthful practices during leisure to family
and community well-being, and (4) the value
of seeking counsel from experienced people.2

III. . . Certain deep understandings
evolve such as: (1) the use of recreation in
channeling the sex drive, (2) the value of
continuing wholesome co-recreation activities
throughout life, (3) the contribution recrea-
ation makes to the health of the family, and
( 4) the responsibility as a future parent to
include recreation as a part of family life.3

In addition to this section, recrea-
tion’s contribution to college health was
also recognized by other committees
such as those on: administration, organ-
ization and functioning of college health
services, and students with special health
problems.

It seems appropriate to recommend
to all recreation personnel that they
make this recreation statement a part of
their professional reading materials.—
Dr. JOHN HUTCHINSON, Associate Pro-
fessor of Education, Department of

Health Education and Physical Educa-

1Proceedings: Fourth National Health
Conference on Health in Colleges, American
College Health Association (1955). p. 177.

2112171., p. 175.

3 lbid., p. 176.

tion, Teachers College, Columbia Uni-
versity, New York.

Recruiting and Training Program

A study conducted by the Oakland

Recreation Department regarding the
excessive turnover among part-time
playground directors, has shown a dis-
tinct need for new ways of recruiting
part-time leadership.

In examining the areas of possible
sources of recruitment, an apparent un-
tapped area was the training of senior
high school age boys and girls for fu-
ture directors. Therefore, the following
program was evolved with two purposes
in mind: to recruit and train college
preparatory students interested in work-
ing with people, and, through this pro-
gram, to interest these students in pur-
suing college studies in recreation or
education.

The'program consisted of two phases.
The first phase took place in the low
senior year with a selected group of.
approximately =fifteen students from;
Oakland’s Technical High School. Dur-
ing the fall semester of 1954 they re-
ceived one period of instruction each
week in various phases of the recreation
field. This session took place during
the last period of the school day and
was a regular part of the physical edu-
cation program at the high school. -

The instruction schedule included the
following subjects for the fall semester:
introduction, theory and history; un-
derstanding group behavior; field trip,
tour of North Oakland facilities; low
organization games (two sessions);
boys’ sports (two sessions); girls’
sports (two sessions); folk and social
dance; playground crafts (two ses-
sions); dramatics and creative play-
making; program planning, local play-
ground level; program planning, spe-
cial events city-wide; field trip, play-
ground in action; evaluation, assign-
ment to spring playgrounds.

RECREATION

It was felt that actual experience on
a playground was an essential part of
training and toward this end a “play-
day” program was set up at one of the
nearby playgrounds where boys’ sports,
girls’ sports, low organization games,
and playground crafts were demon-
strated, with the students being given
an opportunity to lead the children in
each of these activities. Additional well-
qualified regular recreation directors
were assigned to this playground for
the day to make certain that a good ex-
perience was provided both for the chil-
dren and the students. On the remain-
ing days of the week, time was devoted
to discussion, actual practice in lead-
ing games taught or learned earlier, and
working on school activities such as
decorating for dances, preparing assem-
bly presentations, and other activities
related to the recreation experiences.

The second part of the program took
place in the 1955 spring semester. At

.that time the high school students were

given on-the--j ob training at selected rec-
reation centers and playgrounds. This
was on a two- or three-day-a-week basis,
and students were paid at the jhnior-
leader pay rate. They were excused
from their last period physical educa-
tion class in order to proceed to selected
playgrounds. This arrangement enabled
them to reach their assigned playground
at the time that elementary school chil-
dren were dismissed. They worked two
hours each day, under the supervision

of a regular playground director.

The total plan was first presented to
the superintendent of the Oakland Rec-
reation Department for approval. Per-
mission was granted and the way
cleared to secure a go-ahead from the
assistant superintendent of secondary
schools through the principal Of the se-
lected high school. Discussion and re-
finement of the plan was carried out by
conferences with the school principal,
vice-principal, counselors, the supervi-
sor of occupational adjustment and her
staff, the supervisor of physical educa-
tion, and the classroom teacher, who
would be in charge of the class.

In order that it would coincide with
accepted practices in the Oakland pub-
lic schools, a teacher was in charge; but
the program was to be presented by
staff members of the recreation depart-
ment, with the aid of some members of

NOVEMBER 1955

the school department staff. The exact
dates, places of meeting, how the stu-
dents were to be selected, and the pro-
vision for dismissal the final period of
each working day in the second semes-
ter were evolved through these discus-
sions.

From the beginning, the two super-
visors responsible for the program met
with the training group each week. The
students were evaluated in the various
activities; and, at the end of a six-week
period, a conference was again held
with the high school teacher in charge
of the class, where each student was
evaluated on the basis of his ability to
participate in the various areas of study
and as a group member. Several of the
students, at this point, were not meas-
uring up to the ability of the rest of the
group and were called in for conference
with the principal of the school. At the
end of the second grading period some
students were dropped for various rea-
sons, one of which was general lack of
interest. This, apparently, had a bene-
ficial effect on the rest of the group
upon the renewal of the classes follow-
ing the Christmas vacation.

At the end of the school semester,
another conference was held with the
high school teacher. At this conference,
grades were discussed, so the final
grade was the result of a compilation of
both phases of the student’s work. All
students were most enthusiastic about
the program as it had been presented.
The most pertinent comment made was
that they did not feel that one recrea-
tion class a week was enough, and rec-
ommended that future classes be on a
two-day-a-week basis. The general areas
covered in the course of study were all
considered equally important. by these
future recreation leaders, but the two~
day-a-week tie-in was considered most
necessary.

All members of this class were work-
ing at different locations throughout
the city and, according to their super-
vising directors and their district su-
pervisors, they are doing a fine, inter-
ested job. An attempt was made to give
these young people a varied summer
experience. Opportunities were offered
in a community center, on a small
neighborhood playground, and in a
camping situation. All have measured
up and are receiving assignments as

regular recreation directors for the fall
semester. The pay scale was increased
at the end of the spring semester and
once again at the end of the summer
vacation period.

Arrangements are being made for a

second class to start in the fall of 1955.

If results continue to be satisfactory,
another class will be started at a second

high school in the spring of 1956.

Successful completion of this year of
apprenticeship, therefore, will insure
employment throughout the student’s
college career providing the standard
of service continues to be satisfactory.
While these young people are one to
two years younger than directors ordi-
narily employed by the Oakland Rec-
reation Department, it is felt that the
concentrated training and experience
more than makes up for the age differ-
ence. It is expected that a portion of
the students will continue their school-
ing with a major in recreation or a re-
lated field. ———- GRANT MAINLAND and
WARREN STEELE, Supervisors, 0ak~
land (California) Recreation Depart-

ment.

 

 

AWARDS YOU CAN AFFORD:

 

The Garvey Trophy
Write
Ask for Sample

Mail this coupon for FREE Sample

W. R. MOODY
Box 269
Burbank, Calif.

Please send me FREE postpaid samples
of your trophies.

Name

 

Organization

 

Address

 

 

443

 

 

NEWS

I f you are interested in any of
these products, write directly to
the manufacturer at the address
given. PLEASE mention that you
read about it on RECREATION
magazine’s Market page.

 

O Mod-L-Stix, a toy building set
containing an assortment of gaily-
colored construction sticks of non-
breakable plastic is one of the new
toys on the market. All the sticks
are identical in size and shape, each
containing small pegs and holes ar-
ranged so that any number of sticks
may be pegged together in many
difierent ways. Attractively pack-
aged, Mod-L-Stix sets are available in three sizes, contain-

ing 84, 150, and 278 sticks. The Vogel Manufacturing
Company, Bridgeport, Connecticut.

 

O A new type of separation enamel,
which lends itself to a variety of un-
usual effeets, is now available for
enameling on copper projects. The
enamel is black when applied and
burns out entirely during the firing.
It creates a “river” of separation in
the layer of enamel underneath it. It
can be applied in a variety of ways:
by brush, by spattering, through sten-
cils, and so on. Potters’ Wheel, 11447
Euclid Avenue, Department 23, Cleve-

land 6, Ohio.

 

\ O The Nissen Aqua-Tramp, a

portable, sturdy trampoline-type
unit, can supplement—*or some-
times replace—diving boards at
beach or pool. The frame and
legs are aluminum painted and
waterproofed, with all fittings
and moorings cadmium plated
to resist corrosion; legs are
cushioned with rubber shoes to
prevent shifting; bed is all ny-
lon, of double thickness for long
use. For complete information
write Nissen Trampoline Com-
pany, Cedar Rapids, Iowa.

 

O Jayfro Athletic SUpply
Company, manufacturers of
steel chain basketball nets,
has now added another type
of game equipment to its line
——tetherball paddles and
balls. The regulation-size
paddle is made of wood, re-
inforced for sturdiness, light-

444-

 

 

weight but built to stand abuse. The ball is of sponge rub-
ber, attached to a nylon cord by a holder of rawhide leather
with a cadmium-plated hook. Write to the company at RC.
Box 1065, New London, Connecticut.

0 Stairmaster extruded
aluminum treads repair
worn stairs and at the
same time make them
slip-proof and ’improve
their appearance. Re-
pairing treads with Stair-
master is less expensive
than replacing the worn
treads or rebuilding the
stairway — and they
blend with the decor of
most buildings. Wooster
Products, Ine., Wooster,

Ohio.

0 Beginner’s Lens Kit encourages science-minded youngi
sters and grown-ups to use their imagination. The kit con-
tains the simple lenses and instructions for making tele-
scopes, magnifiers, microscopes, slide viewer, and so on.
Edmund Scientific Corporation, Barrington 3, New Jersey.

 

Catalogs and Booklets

o A very interesting little booklet, Short Cuts to Savings
With Shellac, lists numerous craft ideas and tips for supply.
and equipment maintenance and preservation through use
of shellac. Free from Shellac Information Bureau, 65 Pine

Street, New York 6, New York.

0 A 1955 catalog of furniture for libraries, schools, and in-

stitutions may be obtained by writing to Mr. George Entin,
Sales Manager, Standard Wood Products Corp., 47 East 63rd
Street, New York 23, New York.

0 A booklet, How to Modernize Old Windows With PC
Glass Blocks demonstrates with photographs and drawings
the benefits of window modernization, and illustrates how to
select the (proper functional glass block for use in various
window exposures. Pittsburgh Corning Corporation, One
Gateway Center, Pittsburgh 22, Pennsylvania.

0 The General Industrial Company’s new catalog features
transparent plastic-drawer storage cabinets in all sizes, mate-
rial handling equipment, lockers, steel trueks, and other
stock-room items, all clearly illustrated. The company’s ad-

dress is 5737 North Elston, Chicago 30, Illinois.

0 The following brochures on bleachers are available: Am-
weld Easi-Fold Bleachers, The American \Vclding and Manu-
facturing Company, 100 Dietz Road, Warren, Ohio; Steel
Portable Indoor-Outdoor Bleachers, Berlin Chapman Com-
pany, Berlin, Wisconsin; and Dur-A-Bilt Bleachers, Playtime
Equipment Corporation, Mars, Pennsylvania.

RECREATION

 

Music for Main Streeters

Back in January 1955, RECREATION
featured an article, “Music Comes to
Main Street,” which was condensed in
the February issue of Reader’s Digest.
Shortly thereafter, many people wrote
in from all parts of the country request-

ing information on “at home” piano
courses. Recently Don Sellers has
brought out a home course consisting of
five records, ten recorded lessons, and
eighteen charts, called “Music Magic,”
which may be just the answer to the re-
quests of these people. The course costs
about ten dollar s, and information
about where it may be purchased local—

ly may be obtained from Don Sellers,
Inc., 871 McCallie Avenue, Chattanoo-

ga, Tennessee.

Education Via TV

Some 12,000 persons—enough to fill
a large university—took credit courses
by television last year. The courses
have been offered by forty-four differ-

ent institutions.

Holiday Filmstrips and Slidesets

A new, colorfulltwenty-page booklet,
illustrating and describing appropriate
Thanksgiving and Christmas filmstrips
and color slidesets, is now available free
of charge from Society for Visual Edu-
cation, 1345 Diversey Parkway, Chi-
cago 14, Illinois, or from any of the
Society’s dealers. Many new items be-
ing offered for the first time are fully
described and illustrated in this booklet.
Included are “Taro’s Christmas Gift,”
“How We Got Our Christmas Carols,”
“Making Christmas Christian,” “The
Little Pine Tree.”

Records

0 Singing History: Folk Songs and
Books by Martha Bennett King is a fine
new record made especially for the 37th
annual observance of National Chil-

dren’s Book Week, November 9-13. For
this record, Mrs. King has chosen ten
from the thousands of folksongs that
are part of our country’s history. Chil-
dren will enjoy—and it is hoped, start
singing—these old songs; and many
old-timers will get a twinge of nostalgia
if they could hear these familiar strains
of “John and His Mare,” “Sing, Oivy,
Sing Ivy,” “Frog Went a-Courtin’,” and

“The Old Fox.” Mrs. King also invites
NOVEMBER 1955

her young listeners to write and send.to
her their own verses for her song, “If I

Could Read a Thousand Books a Year.”
The record (2 sides, 10 inch, 331/3 rpm,
$3.75) is available, along with a leaflet
containing suggestions for use, from the
Children’s Book Council, 50 West 53rd
Street, New York 19, New York.

9 Folkraft Records has completed a
recording project of records for ele-
mentary schdols. The new releases are
dances, song plays, play-party games,
and so on. Recreation leaders will find
many perennial favorites such as “Paw
Paw Patch,” “Put Your Little Foot,”
“RShoemaker’s Dance,” and so on. The
musical recordings are simply and
clearly done, and directions for the
dances and games are printed on the
record envelopes. For information and
list of titles, write to F olkraft Records,
1159 Broad Street, Newark 5, New Jer-
sey.

0 The second “ride” in Capitol Rec-
ords’ “Bozo’s Merry-Go-Round Music”
series of band organ music for children
includes a Strauss waltz, Artist’s Life,
and a Sousa march, The Thunderer, on
78 rpm (CAS-3174) and 45 rpm
lCASF-3174). Another interesting
Capitol release is an album of French
nursery songs, Giselle M acKenzie Sings
Children’s Songs From France. Miss
MacKenzie explains the songs in Eng-

lish. Available in 78 rpm (CAS-3224)
and 45 rpm (CASF-3224) .

Catalogs

0 Over 175 free-loan motion pictures
with a wide range of subject matter are
listed in the new sixteen-page, Selected
Free Films, from Association Films.
Among them are Fiesta, the how-to-do-
it story of how two teen-age girls
planned a Mexican fiesta party at home,
and Member of the Family, on the care
and feeding of dogs. Write Association

Films, Inc., 347 Madison Avenue, New
York 17, or regional offices.

0 The new thirty-six page catalog of
educational sound films is now available
from Almanac Films, Inc., 516 Fifth
Avenue, New York 36. The company

will release thirty-five films during

1955-56.

0 A catalog of audio-visual equipment,
including portable three-speed phono-
graphs, public address systems and

 

combination slidefilm projectors and
record players, was issued recently by
Audio-Master Corporation. For a copy
write Audio-Master Corporation, 17

East 45th Street, New York.

0 More than 1,000 titles are described
in the sixth edition of the Sound Slide-
film Guide. It reveals the widening use
of the filmstrip with recorded sound as
an educational tool. The guide lists and
describes individual sound slidefilms
and programs for education, training,
and inspirational use. Priced at $1.00
per copy, it is available from the Audio
Visual Division of DuKane Corpora-
tion, St. Charles, Illinois.

Table Tennis TV Show
The Harvard Table Tennis Company

will arrange to show a fifteen-minute
film, Table Tennis Techniques, over
local television channels in three hun-
dred cities. Any physical education di-
rector, coach, recreation director, and
so on, may request a local showing of
this step-by-step explanation of funda-
mentals of the game by sending the re-
quest with his name, address, and affili-
ation to Mr. Edmond Heller, Director
of Merchandising, Harvard Table Ten-
nis Company, 60 State Street, Boston,
Massachusetts, and, if possible, the
company will fit the request into the
schedule.

FOR EVERY
RECREATION LEADER

The Guide to the Best in free-
loan films, educational rental
subjects, Walt Disney Produc-
tions, and

full-length

feature

films

from

SEND FOR
YOUR COPY
TODAY!

“Since Nil—America‘s First Distributor of
Films for Community Audiences"

ASSOCIATION FllMS, Inc.

EXECUTIVE OFFICES:
47 Madison Avenue, New York'l7, N. Y.

BRANCH LIBRARIES:

RIDGEFIELD, N. J. DAllAS
Brood at Elm 1108 Jackson Street

SAN FRANCISCO
35] Turk Street

 

3

IA GRANGE, III.
561 Hillgrove Avenue

445

Write for our new Bose Catalog.

WE ALSO MAKE
GYM MATS AND COVERS.

 

370 N. MARQUETTE STREET
I Fond du lac, Wisconsin

' PROGRAM IDEAS 

on hobbies, arts, crafts,
sports, social fun, infor-
mal education, etc.—the
only all-in-one guide.

 f, The Program Encylopedia ‘ K

Clement A. Duran

‘ $7.95 at your bookstore or

t; ASSOCIATION PRESS
E 291 Broadway, N. Y. C. 7

ENAMEL-ON-COPPER

BOOK

IDEA

Now your classes can enjoy this
fascinating craft! The Copper
Shop (Amerlca’s leading source
of enameiing supplies) will pro-
vide you at low cost every-
thing needed for dramatic dem-
onstrations or class projects.
FREE idea Book gives complete
description of processes and
techniques for exciting. creative
results—lists hundreds of ready-
to-fire copper items and sup- I
piles. Send for your copy today!

THE COPPER SHOP
DIV. or: IMMEnMAH 5. sons . I,
1312 E. 13m St. Dept. n.4o
CLEVELAND 14. omo

Congress Proceedings
1955

The new Proceedings will

include a complete record
of the Denver Congress in-
cluding full reports of dem-
onstration and workshop
sessions. Order your copy
now. Available mid-NO-
vember.

Price $2.50

446 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

 

Books & Pamphlets
Received

ADOLESCENT DEVELOPMENT, Elizabeth
B. Hurlock. Mc-Graw-Hill Book Com-
pany, 330 West 42nd Street, New
York 36. Pp. 500. $6.00.*

ADULT EDUCATION AND GROUP WORK,

Louise Lowy. Whiteside, Inc., 425
Fourth Avenue, New York 16. Pp.
224. $4.00.*

BEHAVIOR AND MISBEHAVIOR, James L.
Hymes, Jr. Prentice-Hall, Inc., 70
Fifth Avenue, New York 11. Pp. 140.
$3.00.*

BEST SPORTS STORIES 1955, Irving T.
Marsh and Edward Ehre, editors. E.
P. Button 81 Company, Inc., 300
Fourth Avenue, New York 10. Pp.
336. $3.50.*

BETTER CHURCH BULLETINs, Stella O.
Barnett. Fleming H. Revel] Company,
316 Third Avenue, Westwood, New
Jersey. Pp. 128. $2.00, cloth; $1.00,
paper.

BETTER SMALL BOAT SAILING, John
Fisher. John de Craff, Inc., 64 West

23rd Street, New York 10. Pp. 148.
$3.00.

BLUE RIBBON PLAYS FOR GIRLS, Sylvia

E. Kamerman. Plays, Inc., 8 Arling-
ton Street, Boston 16. Pp. 359. $3.75.

BOOK OF GAMES FOR HOME, SCHOOL
AND PLAYGROUND, THE, William
Byron F orbush and Harry R. Allen.
The John C. Winston Company, 1010
Arch Street, Philadelphia 7. Pp. 358.
$2.50.*

BOOK OF MODERN PUZZLES, THE, Ger-
ald L. Kaufman. Dover Publications,
Inc., 1780 Broadway, New York 19.
Pp. 188. $2.50, cloth; $1.00, paper.

BOOK OF SIGNS, THE, Rudolph Koch.
Dover Publications, Inc., 1780 Broad-
way, New York 19. Pp. 104. $1.00.

CHILD DEVELOPMENT POINT OF VIEW,

A, James L. Hymes, Jr. Prentice-

Hall, 70 Fifth Avenue, New York 11.
Pp. 145. $3.00.*

CHORAL SPEAKING IS FUN, Letitia Raub-
icheck. Noble and Noble, Inc. 67
Irving Place, New York 3. Pp. 44.
$.75.

CRAWLEY ADVENTURE PLAYGROUND.
The Crawley Community Association,
Adventure Playground Committee,
Crawley, Sussex. Pp. 16. Price: 23.

CREATIVE ACTIVITIES, Dorothy Haupt
and D. Keith Osborn. The Merrill-
Palmer School, 71 East Ferry Ave-
nue, Detroit 2. Pp. 103. $1.00.

CRYPTOGRAPHY, Laurence Dwight
Smith. Dover Publications, Inc., 1780
Broadway, New York 19. Pp. 164.
$2.50, cloth; $1.00, paper.

     

ENAMELING FOR FUN AND PROFIT, Mary
Larom. David McKay Company, Inc.,
55 Fifth Avenue, New York 3. Pp.
96. $3.00.

GIFT ls RICH, THE, E. Russell Carter.
Friendship Press, 257 Fourth Avenue,

New York 10. Pp. 117. $2.00, cloth;
$1.25, paper.*

HOW T O BUILD BIRDHOUSES AND FEED-
ERS, Walter E. Schutz. The Bruce
Publishing Company, 400 North

Broadway, Milwaukee 1, Wisconsin.

Pp. 134. $2.95.

HOW TO BUILD OUTDOOR FIREPLACES
AND LAWN FURNITURE, The Arco Pub-
lishing Company, 480 Lexington Ave-
nue, New York 17. Pp. 144. $2.00.

HOW TO WATCH BIRDS, Roger Barton.
McGraw-Hill Book Company, 330
West 42nd Street, New York 36. Pp.
229. $3.50.*

HOW To WORK WITH TOOLS AND WOOD,
Fred Cross, editor. Pocket Books,
Inc., 630 Fifth Avenue, New York 20.
Pp. 215. $.25.

HUMAN RELATIONS IN TEACHING, How-

ard Lane and Mary Beauchamp.
Prentice-Hall, Inc., 70 Fifth Avenue,
New York 11. Pp. 353. $3.96.*

JUMP ROPE RHYMES, Patricia Evans.
The Porpoise Bookshop, 308 Clement

Street, San Francisco 18. Pp. 31.
$5.25.

MATHEMATICAL PUZZLES FOR BEGIN-
NERs AND ENTHUSIASTS, Geoffrey
Mott-Smith. Dover Publications, Inc.,
1780 Broadway, New York 19. Pp.
248. $2.50, cloth; $1.00, paper.

MENTAL HEALTH THROUGH PHYSICAL
EDUCATION AND RECREATION, Emma
McCloy Layman. Burgess Publish-
ing Company,426 South Sixth Street,
Minneapolis 15, Minnesota. Pp. 520.
$4.00.

METROPOLIS IN THE MAKING—The Next
Twenty-Five Years in the New York
Metropolitan Region. Regional Plan
Association, Inc., 205 East 42nd
Street, New York. Pp. 88. $3.00,
cloth; $2.00, paper.

MIGHTY MEN OF BASEBALL, Charles

Spain Verral. Aladdin Books (Divi-
sion of American Book Company),

55 Fifth Avenue, New York 3. Pp.
140. $2.50

OFFICIAL GUIDE AND RULE BOOK 1955.
The Amateur Softball Association,

 

* These publications are available from the
National Recreation Association at list price
plus fifteen cents for each book ordered to
cover postage and handling. Active Associate
and A diliate Members of the Association re-
ceive a ten per cent discount on list price.
Remittances should accompany orders from
individuals; organizations and recreation de-
partments will be billed on their official orders.
Address orders to Combined Book Service,
National Recreation Association, 8 West

Eighth Street, New York 11, New York.

RECREATION

 

11 Hill Street, Newark, New Jersey.
Pp. 144. $.60.

1000 BEST SHORT GAMES 0F CHESS,
THE, Irving Chernev. Simon and

Schuster, Inc., Rockefeller Center,
630 Fifth Avenue, New York 20. Pp.

555. $5.00.*

1,000,000 DELINQUENTS, B e n j a m in
Fine. The World Publishing Com-
pany, 2231, West 110th Street, Cleve-
land 2, Ohio. Pp. 377. $4.00. ,

PEOPLE ACT, THE, Elmore M. McKee.
Harper & Brothers, 49 East 33rd
Street, New York 16. Pp. 269.
$3.50.*

PHOTOGRAPHY ON A SMALL INCOME, J. .

Allan Cash. Soccer Associates, 10
Overlook Terrace, New York 33.
Pp. 128. $.75.

PLANNING BETTER COMMUNITIES IN THE ~

METROPOLITAN ST. LOUIS AREA, W.
Phillip Shatts. Metropolitan Plan
Association, Inc., 915 Olive Street,
St. Louis 1, Missouri. Pp. 32. Free.

PLANNING AND BUILDING THE COURSE.
National Golf Foundation, Inc., 407
South Dearborn Street, Chicago 5,
Illinois. Pp. 41. $1.00.

PULL UP AN EASEL—How to Paint for
Enjoyment, Norman Garbo. A. S.

Barnes and Company, 232 Madison
Avenue, New York 16. Pp. 244.

$3.75.*

SAFE PRACTICES IN WOODWORKING AND
PLASTICS, G. Harold Silvius, Gerald
B. Baysinger, and K. T. Olsen. Amer-
ican Technical Society, Drexel Ave-
nue at 58th Street, Chicago 37. Pp.
103. $1.00.

SING AND DANCE—Original Songs for
Home and School, Dora Dubsky.
Stephen Daye Press, 105 East 24th
Street, New York 10. Pp. 46. $2.50.

“ START GOLF YOUNG—Including Rules ,

for a Friendly Game, Doug Ford.

Sterling Publishing Company, Inc.,

215 East 37th Street, New York 16.
Pp. 124. $2.50.

SUPERVISION—~A SOCIAL PROCESS, Wil-
liam H. Burton and Leo J. Brueck-
ner. Appleton-Century-Crofts, Inc.,
35 West 32nd Street, New York 1.
Pp. 715. $6.50.

SWIMMING PROGRAM FOR BLIND CHIL-
DREN, A. Robert Belenky. American
Foundation for the Blind, 15 West
16th Street, New York 11. Pp. 44.
3.45.

TEACHER AND YOUNG TEENS, THE,
Louise B. GrifEths. The Bethany
Press, 2640 Pine Boulevard, St. Louis
3, Missouri. Pp. 176. $1.75.

UNDERWATER SPORT, Albert Vanderko-
gel and Rex Lardner. Henry Holt and

Company, Inc., 383 Madison Avenue,
New York 17. Pp. 188. $3.50.

URBAN SOCIOLOGY, Egon Ernest Ber-
gel. McGraw-Hill Book Company,

NOVEMBER 1955

Inc., 330 West 42nd Street, NewYork
36. Pp. 558. $6.50.*

WHAT TO SAY AND HOW TO SAY IT—
FOR ALL OCCASIONS, David Belson.

Citadel Press, 222 Fourth Avenue,
New-«York 3. Pp. 192. $2.95.

YOUR HEALTH AND GROWTH
SERIES: A SOUND BODY, Pp. 341.
$2.16. GROWING UP HEALTHY, Pp.
302. $2.16. HABITS HEALTHFUL AND
SAFE, Pp . 280. $1.96. HEALTH
SECRETS, Pp. 230. $1.76. HEALTH-
FUL WAY, Pp. 246. $1.76. LET’S BE
HEALTHY, Pp. 275. $1.96. W. W.
Charters, Dean F. Smiley, Ruth M.

Strang. The Macmillan Company, 60
Fifth Avenue, New York 11.*

YOUR TAPE RECORDER, Robert and

Mary Marshall. Greenberg, Publish-
er, 201 East 57th Street, New York
22. Pp. 278. $4.95.

—__.'——.__—]
Magazme Articles i

 

ARCHITECTURAL FORUM, July 1955
Architecture Goes Camping.

BEACH AND POOL, June 1955

New Precast Concrete Pool.
Advantages of the Water Level Deck

Pool.

An Instructor Aide Program for
Teen-Age Teachers, Roy E. Kneip.

Effective Algae Control, R. C. Sher-
wood.

Safe Water Through Ultra Violet,
George G. Ellner.

, July 1955

Your Pool’s Safety Program, Charles
W. Abbott.

Modern Filtration Practices, William
H orodeck.

The Denver Pool: A Lesson in Com-
plete Project Planning, I. Earl

Schlupp.
Indianapolis Cuts Cost of Pool Main-
tenance, Robert Rice.

A School Pool-Provides a Program
of Total Usage, Bert Grijiin.

, August 1955

 

 

The ABC’s Of Water Chemistry,
Jerry M eslin.

Estimation of Required Chlorine
Dosages.

Chemistry of Water Treatment, El-
wood L. Bean. .

Functional P001 to Serve City of
Danville, Charles W. Graves.

CAMPING, June 1955

36 Program Peppers for Summer

Fun.

PARK MAINTENANCE, June 1955“
Getting Equipment Repairs Down to
an Accurate Cost Basis.
What Should Be Included in Your

Tree Ordinances.
There’ll Be a Lot of Better Lawns.

 

 

 

Use Your Rotary Mowers to Make
Compost.

, July 1955

Parks From Wastelands.

Less Hazardous Surfacings.

, August 1955

Small City Got Its Parks by the Com-
munity Foundation System, C. A.
Frazer. ~

This is What it Takes to Pass a Bond
Referendum.

, September 1955

Uncle Sam Won’t Pick Up the Tab,-——
But Numerous Services and Area
Usages May Be Obtained.

A Study on Auditorium Rental Rates.

PARKS AND RECREATION, June 1955
Louisville Has Outstanding Park and
Recreation System.
A Program to Develop Better Execu-
tive Leadership, Walter J. Barrows.
Keeping Park Areas Inviting to Visit-
ors.
Colorful Interiors and the Refuse
Can Problem, Discussed.
, August 1955
Summer Thoughts on Child Conser-
vation.

Controlling Crabgrass with Chemi-
cals, W. H. Daniel.

Low Cost Picnic Unit, Roy Mitchell.

, September 1955

Park Film Production, John. H. Tyo.

Ice Rinks on Asphalt Areas, David H.
Fritz.

Park Ridge (Illinois) Park District
Installs Twin Swimming Pools in
Park-School Plan. «

Wanted: Men to Train in Park an
Recreational Management,

Rhodell E. Owens.

 

 

 

 

 

INDEX OF ADVERTISERS

American Playground Device Company___. 407

 

 

Association Films -_.__._.___.._A._._._ 445
The J. E. Burke Company ____.______. 407
Chicago Roller Skate Company __ 406
The Copper Shop __..-___--_._....__.._.___..___ 446
Wall Disney Productions _.L____._--_____._ 408
laytro Athletic Supply Company..-__..__-___.-_ 408
Kelbar Sales, lnc._._.._____ _____ __ 409
The MacGregor Company..--.._..-____._“___ 401
The Monroe Company ______ _.._Z._____ 408
W. R. Moody Company____._..____1_.____.... 443
National Sports Company _____m._.__.__._-.... 446
Rawlings Sporting Goods Company____.__ 401
Square Dance Associates -_______ _.__ 409
Tandy leather Company ___._-___-..___-._.__ 407
Tri-King Enterprises, Inc. ____n_____,___ 408
Universal Manufacturing Corp. .____.__..___ 401
W. l. Voit Rubber Corporation_w ..... -_ 409
X-acto, lnc. .._.___.___.___.__.___.___..______ 407

 

 

 

447

 

How to Help
Children Learn Music

Madeleine Carabo-Cone and Bea-
trice Royt. Harper & Brothers, 49 East
33rd Street, New York 16. Pp. 138.
$3.50.*

The authors of this little book believe
it is possible to teach children the fun-
damentals of musical theory through
playing games, muscular activities, con-
tests and puzzles, all designed to engage
interest without sacrificing educational
soundness. Essentials like note read-
ing, time values, key signatures, scales,
intervals, and so on, they maintain, can
be taught effectively and enjoyably by
adaptations of treasure hunts, skipping
and running games, pin on the donkey’s
tail, flash-card identifications, and a
variety of other sure-fire amusements.
The ideas are explained in a progres-
sive series of “lessons,” accompanied
by text and graphic illustrations.

It is undoubtedly true, as the authors
claim, that many children are discour-
aged in the early stages of music study
by technical problems they have to meet
before they come to sufficient pleasura-
ble experience to provide its own in-
centive. This is especially the case with
the stringed instruments. This book
seems to be directed mainly toward
helping children to acquire the ground-
work skills for piano playing, but it in-
cludes also a section for the prospective
violin and cello player.

The lessons, if they can be called
such, are apparently best conducted in
groups numbering, in the beginning at
least, from five to ten children, aged
between five and eight. The teacher
should have a fair degree of training
and be able to play simple pieces mu-
sically as well as accurately.

Considerable equipment is needed
for the adequate performance of most
of the games described. A number of
them, employing the larger muscles of
the body, are played on a “floor staff,”
for instance, requiring installation of a
room-size linoleum rug, on which are

painted,the White keys and black hori- ,

zontal lines of treble and bass staves
and their respective clefs. ,

The interval skipping and other large
muscle activities outlined in the book
are no doubt appropriate to the play-
room as well as to the studio group,

448

PUBLICATIONS

Covering the Leisure-time Field

and the same may be true of some of
the finger training. But since the orien-
tation is always toward musicianship
minus emotional barriers, and play par-
ticipation is only a means to an end,
the ideas presented are likely to be more
profitable to the music teacher than to
the children’s group worker. But they
offer food for thought to both—Cer-
trude Borchard, former staff member of
NRA Correspondence and Consultation
Service. '-

Supervision As A Social Process

William H. Burton and Leo J. Brueck-
ner. Appleton-Century-Crofts, Inc., 35
West 32nd Street, New York 1, N. Y.
$6.50. 1955.

Supervision is dealt with primarily
from the point of view of the learning
process in this book which should be of
major interest to those in the teaching
field. In addition, however, it includes
many sections and a great deal of infor-
mation which should be helpful to the
professional recreation leader.

The changing concepts of supervision
are listed, beginning with the early pe-
riods of inspection and including su-
pervision as coercion and the philoso-
phy that truth is vested in “those whom
God hath called into authority over
us.” Even the concept of supervision as
training and guidance, although a gain
over the early concepts, is still inade-
quate, according to the authorities. The
weakness of the latter is in the fact that
training and guidance have been focus-
ed on the teacher and confined to im-
provement in this specific group and its
techniques to the exclusion of curricu-
lum, materials, students and commu-
nity. Suggestions for various types of
meetings are given, with guidance for
improvement of programs and person-
nel. Good and bad points are identified
for various types 6f meetings, confer-
ences, panels, and forums. In-service
training receives considerable attention
and a rather generous list of character-
istics of democratic leaders is included.

The third part includes considerable
material of interest to recreation leaders
and deals with the over-all subject of
“the improvement of the educational
program.” Transferable information
from this part would include personality
traits of teachers, provisions that are

likely to increase the effectiveness of in-
service education programs, principles
of learning, typical in-service education
programs, basic characteristics of de-
sirable personality, reasons for liking
and disliking teachers based on studies.
morale as a factor in teacher growth,
and community use of the school plant.

Referring to the use of the school
plant, the authors point out that in some
states legislation is needed in order to
“authorize local school boards to estab-
lish and maintain social centers in con-
nection with public schools, specifying
some of the principal activities to be
maintained.”

In the discussion of community coor-
dination of the school and the coordi-
nating council, recreation is identified
in the following statement, “Practically
all councils report more activity in this
field than in any other.” They report
the lighting of playgrounds, securing of
new playgrounds, new facilities, equip-
ment, clubhouses,swimming pools, com-
munity centers, extending present pro-
grams, securing directors, promotion of
backward playgrounds, improving life-
guard service and securing the use and
control of street for play.

The fourth part gives attention to “the
evaluation of programs of supervision ;”
includes a lengthy and interesting check
list of characteristics of a good school
administrator, as well as the character-
istics of successful and unsuccessful
school principals.

Bibliographies and questions at the
end of the various sections add to the
value of the publication. The emphasis
on the improvement of relationship
with children and the modern concep-
tion of the place of the school in the
community are most refreshing.———W. C.

Sutherland, NRA Personnel Service.

Dance Songs of All Nations

Natalie. Edwin H. Morris & Com-
pany, Inc., 35 West 5lst Street, New
York 19. Pp. 31. $1.00.

A thirty-two page booklet contain-
ing tunes, music, and lyrics for simple
dances for children. Each dance is
based on a folksong and typical folk
dance of such countries as Holland,
Mexico, Hawaii, Israel, Poland, France,
and so on—and in each case the lyrics
are the dance routines. The dances are
simple, suitable for the five- to ten-year-
olds, and would be fun. Notes on sim-
ple costuming are included.

This book should help the inexperi-
enced leader who wishes to include the
youngsters in an international program.
They will be useful, too, for playground
and camp, for both singing and danc-
ing. -—- Virginia M usselman, Program

Service, N RA.

"' See footnote on page 446.

RECREATION

 

Recreation Leadership Courses

HELEN M. DAUNCEY
Social Recreation

ANNE LIVINGSTON
Social Recreation

FRANK A. STAPLES
Arts and Crafts

Sponsored by the National Recreation Association

and

Local Recreation Agencies °

Washington County, Alabama

November 7-10

Sumter County, Alabama
November 14-17

Perry County, Alabama
November 28-December 1

Marion County, Alabama
December 5-8

Canton, Ohio
January 16-19

State of North Carolina
January 23-February 9

Abilene, Texas
October 31-November 3

Wichita Falls, Texas
November 7-10

Oklahoma City, Oklahoma
November 14-17

State of Oklahoma
December 5-15

m Prince Georges and

Montgomery Counties,

Maryland
January 16-19

Iroquois, New York
November 28-December 1

November, December, 1955 and January, 1956

T. B. Pearson, County Superintendent of Schools, Chatom

E. W. Mellown, County Superintendent of Schools, Livingston
L. G. Walker, County Superintendent of Schools, Marion
Solon Gregg, County Superintendent of Schools, Hamilton

C. W. Schnakc, Recreation Director, Recreation Department, Canton
City School District, Safety Building

Miss Virginia Gregory, Recreation Specialist, North Carolina Rec-
reation Commission, Education Bldg. Annex, Raleigh

Scott Fikes, Park and Recreation Department

Spencer Ellis, Director of Parks and Recreation

Walter Gray, Jr., Community Workshop, Oklahoma Library Divi-
sion, 3rd and Robinson

George E. Hull, Assistant 4—H Club Leader, Extension Service.
County Agent Worker, Stillwater

Mrs. Ellen E. Linson, Recreation Director, Prince Georges County,
4811 Riverdale Road, Riverdale

Dr. Hjalmar F. Scoe, Thomas Indian School

 

Attendance at training courses conducted by National Recreation Association leaders is usually

open to all who wish to attend. For details as to location of the institute, contents of course, regis-

tration procedure, and the like, communicate with the sponsor of the course as listed above.

. RECREATION 
8 West Eighth Street, New York 11, N. Y.

.'M
-

RprURN POSTAGE GUARANTEED
Entered as second class matter

 

Mrs. Brown
refused to sink

“I<EEP rowing or I’ll toss you all over-
board!”

The threat came from a red-headed
woman dressed in corset and bloomers,

with a Colt .45 lashed to her waist. And as
the crowded lifeboat marked 5. S. Titanic
lurched into the waves, she rowed too,
rowed until her hands bled.

Mrs. Margaret Tobin Brown had come a
long way to take charge of that lifeboat.
Once penniless, she now had millions, for
her husband, “Leadville Johnny” Brown,
had struck it rich. Once spurned by Denver
society, she now hobnobbed with nobility.

But, as she said, “You can’t wear the
social register for water wings.” Her
$60,000 chinchilla cloak covered three
frightened children; her other outer gar-
ments she had given to elderly women. She

swore, threatened, sang grand opera, joked
——and kept her boatload of wretched sur-

vivors going till rescue came.

When they asked her how she’d done it,
she replied, “Typical Brown luck. I’m un-
sinkable.” But it wasn’t luck. It was pluck.
And Americans have always had plenty of
that smiling, hardy courage. When you
come to think of it, that’s one reason why

 

It’s actually easy to save money—when you

buy United States Series E Savings Bonds
through the automatic Payroll Savings Plan our country’s SaVIngs Bonds rank among

where you work! You just Sign an application the world’s finest investments.
at your pay office; after that your saving is
done for you. And the Bonds you receive will

pay you interest at the rate of 3% per year, com- back those Bonds,

For 160 million determined Americans

pounded semiannually, for as long as 19 years

- i
and 8 months, if you wish! Sign up today! Or. The sureSt Way to PrOteCt Your 59011“th

if {0‘13}: SCIf‘emISOYEd,Finve-°>t in Bonds regu- and the nation’s, is through United States‘ir
31' Y w ere you an . or your own security, . . __ y.
and your counlry,s mo, save with United States Savmgs Bonds. Invest 1n them regularly
Savings Bonds! and hold on to them.

 
  

Say? as Amen'ca— US San'nys Bonds

 The U.S. Government docs not pay [or this adrertiscmcnt. It is donated by this publication in cooperation with the
Advertising Council and the Magazine Publishers of America.

