 

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION 0 FEBRUARY 1955 0 50¢

M”-”----- -- --”----------’”-’----”----- -“---m-”----”-” ’“--”’”’

r--------------------------------------------------. ---------- .-----’-------------------------------------------------.

Playground Publications

Looking ahead to summer programs? Need materials . . .
ground leadership training courses . . . for volunteer leaders . . . for
new personnel . . . for experienced personnel in search of new
ideas? These publications are geared to your needs. Order now!

Arts and Crafts Book List (P 42) .............................................. .. $.15
Extensive listing of references classified by types of
crafts.

Craft Proiects for Camp and Playground (P 173) .................. .. .50

Finger Puppets (P 112) .............................................................. .. .35

Flying High—Kites and Kite Tournaments (P 85) ................ .. .25

Make Your Own Games (P 124) .............................................. .. .25

Make Your Own Puzzles (P 126) .............................................. .. .25

Masks—Fun to Make and Wear (P 107) .................................. .. .15

Nature Crafts for Camp and Playground (P 177) .................. .. .50

Nature Prints (P 180) ...................  ............................................ .. .25

Simple Frames For Weaving (P 178) ........................................ .. .25

Simple Puppetry (P 96) .............................................................. .. .50
Directions for making and leadership techniques.

Nature Games for Various Situations (P 187) .......................... .. .15

Informal Dramatics: Playground Series: No. 2 (P 100) .......... .. .50

Inexpensive Costumes for Plays. Festivals and Pageants
(P 203) .................................................................................... .. .25

A detailed discussion of inexpensive costumes—how to
make them, materials to use, how to costume a play, etc.

Joseph Lee Memorial Pageant (P 58) ........................................ .. .25
Pageants and Programs for School. Church and

Playground (P 205) ................................................................ .. .50
Active Games for the Live Wires (P 98) .................................... .. .50
88 Successful Play Activities .................................................... .. .75

Rules for many special events, including kite contests,
doll shows, pushmobile contests, marble tournaments
and many others.

I or play-

 

For the Storyteller ...................................................................... .. .50
How to select stories and tell them effectively; bibli-

ography.
Games for Boys and Men. ........................................................ .. .50

He-man activities! Active and quiet games, stunts. con-
tests and other fun-filled ideas.

A Playground Fair (P 138) .......................................................... .. .25
A playground show featuring music, dancing and nov-
elty acts.

Singing Games (P 21) ................................................................ .. .50

Well-known and not-so-well-known singing games for
the five-to-seven age group.

.-“ \

Suggestions for an Amateur Circus (P 130) ............................ .. .35
Treasure Hunts (MP 212) ............................................................ .. .35
Excitement, adventure and loads of fun in these hints

for hunts.
Action Songs (P 89) .................................................................... .. .35

Songs which provide fun and exercise for large groups
where space is limited.

Annotated Bibliography for Music Leaders in Camp. Play-

ground. Becreation Center (MP 303) .................................. .. .15
Community and Assembly Singing .......................................... .. .75

A 64-page guide for those conducting community sing-

ing.

The Playground Leader—His Place in the Program (P 103).... .50

A discussion of the importance of leadership and ways
of developing the qualities of good leadership.

Some Leadership "Do's" (MP 389) ............................................ .. .25

Personnel qualifications, preparation for recreation lead-
ership and leadership techniques.

Youth Out of Doors (P 218) ........................................................ .. .15

Suggestions for various kinds of outings, sports and out-
door social activities and service projects.

PLAYGROUND SUMMER NOTEBOOK ............................  ........................... .. 2.50
Twelve bulletins on playground activities and programs, available
as a set in April. (Price to NBA members—$2.00.)

PW Special Playground Issues
April 1952 .......  ....  .....................  .......  ................ .. .35
April 1953 .....................  ...........................................................  35

April 1955 (Available March 25. Copies may be ordered now.) .50

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
8 West Eighth Street, New York I], N. Y.

PORTER No.33

COMBINATION

   

It’s a space saver! It’s a money-savanna!

Yes, here’s a Playground Combination Set that has been care-
fully planned to solve the problem of limited space. Small
playgrounds can install the Porter No. 38, and still provide
a wide variety of healthful exercise and fun for the children.

Look at all the apparatus this one unit affords! Two Stand-

 

ard See-Saws, one Horizontal Bar, two Swings, a Pair of , A)
Flying Rings, one Trapeze, and one 16-ft. Porter Safety Slide \‘3

—plus the sturdy lO-ft. steel frame that’s galvanized inside WRITE FOR THE NEWEST

and out and held rigidly together for years and years with CATALOG OF PORTER

Tested Malleable Iron fittings of exclusive Porter design.

The No. 38 Combination Set has price appeal, too. Write for E N G I N E E R E D
the attractively low figure, and complete specifications. Im-
mediate delivery!

PLAYGROUND EQUIPMENT

THE 1. E. ~ CORPORATION
" j I: OTTAWA, ILLINOIS

MANUFAUURERS 0F PLAYGROUND, GYMNASIUM AND. SWIMMING POOL EQUIPMENT

Exclusive MAKERS OF THE WORLD-FAMOUS JUNGLEGYM* CL'MB'NG
“ Reg.U.S.PcII.Off. STRUCTURE

 

' FEBRUARY 1955 When writing to our advertisers please mentien RECREATION.

 

 

50

 

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION

A Service Organization Supported by Voluntary Contributions

JOSEPH PRENDERGAST, Executive Director

 

 

NATIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RECREATION ADMINISTRATION

The National Advisory Committee on Recreation Administration, composed of administrators of public recreation
and park services in communities both large and small throughout the country, has been appointed to study a variety
of important and currently difficult administrative problems, and to make available to the Association and to the national
recreation movement the best information and experience obtainable for meeting these challenging questions.

GEORGE HJELTE—Chairman

General Manager, Department of Recreation and Parks

Los Angeles, California

RonER-r E. BONNEY

Superintendent of Parks and
Recreation

Klamath Falls, Oregon

BETTER BDTI‘S

Director of Recreation, Playground
and Recreation Board

Waukegan, Illinois

WALTER CAMMACI:
Superintendent of Recreation
Whittier, California

BERNARD CAMPSELL
Director of Recreation
Bangor, Maine

MILO F. CHRISTIANSEN

Superintendent of Recreation
Washington, D. C.

PAT CONNORS
Director of Recreation
Anaconda, Montana

JOHN J. CONSIDINE

General Superintendent, Department
of Parks and Recreation

Detroit, Michigan

MRS. RUBY M. Coos:

Director, Recreation and
Community Center

Lancaster, Pennsylvania

K. MARI: COWEN
Superintendent of Parks and
Recreation

Elkhart, Indiana

STATON R. CURTIS
Director of Recreation
Brunswick, Maine

HERRERT A. DAVIS
Superintendent of Public Recreation
Cincinnati, Ohio

CHARLES DOELL

Superintendent, Board of Park
Commisisoners

MiDneapolis, Minnesota

I. SIDNEY DUNLOI'
Superintendent of Recreation
Spartenburg, South Carolina

DON DYE-

Director of Recreation
Milwaukee, Wisconsin

Flam: E. EVANS

Superintendent of Recreation
Caldwell, New Jersey

WILLIAM E. Evans, JR.

Director of Recreation
Boise, Idaho

Lon-mass N. GARDNER
Director of Recreation
Tucson, Arizona

RAY K. GOATES
Director of Parks and Recreation
Inglewood, California

JOE CRUNz

Recreation Director, Recreation
Department

Faribault, Minnesota

PAT HACOERTY
Superintendent of Recreation
Wichita, Kansas

ARNOLD HALPERN

Director of Recreation
Coeur d’Alene, Idaho

A. C. HAMILTON

Superintendent of Recreation
Lubbock, Texas

Miss LOU HAMILTON
Superintendent of Recreation
San Antonio, Texas

WAYNE B. HAMILTON
Director of Recreation
Bend, Oregon

LoRENz HARRIS
Dow House
Hopkins, Minnesota

VINCENT HERaERT

Superintendent of Parks and
Recreation

Pittsiield, Massachusetts

JACK M. HESKETH
Superintendent of Recreation
Monroe, Louisiana

RALPH M. HILEMAN
Superintendent of Recreation
Baton Rouge, Louisiana

HowARD B. HOLMAN
Director of Recreation
Fresno, California

DWIGHT H. HUNTER
Director of Recreation,

Alachua County
Cainesville, Florida

WILLIAM KEEUNC
Superintendent of Recreation
Dallas, Texas

CHARLES A. KBBMENAK
Superintendent of Recreation
Sioux City, Iowa

CHARLES E. REED—Secretary

Manager, Field Department, National Recreation Association

New York, New York

RanRT A. LEE
Superintendent of Recreation
Iowa City, Iowa

RanRT A. LoaDELL
Director of Recreation
Evansville, Indiana

MAx Locxwoon
Superintendent of Recreation
Statesboro, Georgia

MRS. MARTHA B. MAITRE

Superintendent of Re'creation
Mobile, Alabama

BRET J. MCCINNIS

Superintendent of Parks and
Recreation

Poplar Bluff, Missouri

ANDREW PENDERCAST
Director of Recreation and Parks
Bremerton, Washington

JOHN PENNY
Superintendent of Recreation
Brattleboro, Vermont

JACKSON J. PERRY

Director of Recreation,
Leominster Recreation Center

Leominster, Massachusetts

ED PUTNAM

Superintendent, Illetropolitan
Park District

Ya‘:ima, Washington

.-.

REGINALD G. RENI-‘REE
Superintendent of Recreation
Sacramento, California

HOWARD RICH
Director of Recreation
Sheboygan, Wisconsin

W. A. RICHARDSON
Superintendent, Arlington County

Department of RecreatiOn
Arlington, Virginia

JOHN RIDLEY
Director, Carver Community Center
Evansville, Indiana

GEORGE T. SAROISSON

Executive Director, Recreation
Promotion and Service, Inc.

“iilmington, Delaware

GEORGE SCHAUMRRRC

Superintendent of Parks and
Recreation T

Bismarck, North Dakota

J. EARL SCHLUPP
Director of Recreation
Denver, Colorado

HENRY D. SCEUBERI‘
Superintendent of Recreation
Dearborn, Michigan

WALTER SCOTT

Director of Municipal and
School Recreation

Long Beach, California

JAMES W. SHEPHERD

Superintendent, Monongalia County
Consolidated Recreation
Commission

Morgantown, West Virginia

DONALD F. SINN
Director of Recreation
Concord, New Hampshire

JACK SPORE
Superintendent of Recreation
Nashville. Tennessee

JAY VER LEE
Superintendent of Recreation

Oakland, California

CHARLES VETTINER

Director, Jeferson County Recreation
and Playgrounds

Louisville, Kentucky

HAROLD WAGNER
Director-Secretary, Akron

Metropolitan Parks
Akron, Ohio

MICHAEL E. WARCO
Director of Recreation
Clairton. Pennsylvania

AUSTIN WELCH
National Catholic Community Service

Washington, D. C.

DONALD C. WINCO
Director, Smith Street

Community Center
Norfolk, Virginia

WILLIAM WITT
Director of Parks and Recreation
Corpus Christi, Texas

C. R. WOOD

Director, Department of Public
Recreation -

Durham, North Carolina

OTIIMAR WI‘ENSCHEL
Superintendent of Recreation
Greensburg, Pennsylvania

RECREATION

 

FEBRUARY ] 955

Editor in Chief, JOSEPH PRENDERGAST
Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON
Editorial Assistant, AMELIA HENLY
Business Manager, ALFRED H. WILSON
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Recreation Administration, GEORGE BUTLER
Program Activities, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

Vol. XLVlll Price 50 Cents No. 2

0n the Cover
WINTER FUN. Snowy days Of dazzling white,

crunchy snow and crisp clear air, bring 'an exhuber-

ance of spirits and of energy. The out-of-doors rings-

with the sound of steel on ice, the swish of skiis, the
downhill run Of the tobaggan—to the accompani-
ment of Shouts and laughter. These are the sounds
of exhilaration and health—twin rewards of outdoor
winter recreation. Photo courtesy of Sun Valley
News Bureau, Steve Hannaghan Associates, New

York.

Next Month

Suggestions and ideas to help you in your plan-
ning for April, which is National Hobby Month.
Among them, “Hobbies Develop the Executive” and
“Include Hobbies and Hobby Shows in Your Pro-
gram.” All those who are planning to go to the 37th
National Recreation Congress in Denver will be
especially interested in Earl Schlupp’s “Public Rec-
reation in Denver.” “Baseball for Boys” gives de-
tails of the testing program in Cortland, New York.

Photo Credits

Page 52, Fabian Bachrach, Chicago; 65, WPA
Federal Theatre Photos; 66, R. E. Tenney, Daily
Progress, Charlottesville; 69, Polly Parrot Studio,
Fayetteville; 70, American Music Conference, Chi-
cago; 72, (top left) John LeCaire, Arlington, (top
right) Post Journal, Jamestown, (bottom left) Ver-
non Langdon, Greenville, (bottom right) Council
of Social Agencies, Columbus; 73, (top right) lke
Vern, New York; 76, A. C. Kein Studio, Birming-
ham; 82, The Kalamazoo Gazette, Kalamazoo; 84,

85', Charles Perry, Manchester; 88, Berkeley Gazette,
Berkeley.

m

RECREATION is published monthly except July and
August by the National Recreation Association, a
service organization supported by voluntary contribu-
tIOtlS. at 8 West Eighth Street, New York 11, New
York; is on file in public libraries and is indexed in
the Readen’ Guide. Subscriptions $4.00 a year.
Canadian and foreign subscription rate 34.50. Re-
entered as second-class matter April 25, 1950, at the

. Post Odice in New York, New York, under Act of
March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate
of postage provided for in SCCtion 1103. Act of October
3. 1917, authorized May 1, 1924. Microtilms of cur-
rent issues available University Microfilms, 313 N. First
Street, Ann Arbor, Michigan.

Space Representatives: H. Thayer Heaton, 141 East
44th Street, New York 17, New York; Mark Minahan.
168 North Michigan Avenue, Chicago, Illinois; Keith
H. Evans, 3757 Wilshire Boulevard, Los Angeles 5, and

593 Market Street, Suite 304, San Francisco 5.
California.

_ Copyright, 1955, by the
National Recreation Association, Incorporated

Printed in the U.S.A. 9"" ‘c

@913 

\
'333‘

' Trade mark registered in U. S. Patent 05cc.

 

FEBRUARY 1955

MAGAZINE

 
 
   

OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

CONTENTS

GENERAL FEATURES
Recreation and Adult Education (Editorial) Alalcolm S. Knowles 90

Why Recreation Programs for the Aging? . . . . . . . Wilma Clizbe 59
Recreation in the Day of King Charles I . . . . . . .Otto T. Mallery 6O
Personalities I Have Met—Richard Schirrmann

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . William G. Vinal 61
Recreation Goes Underwater . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Al Tillman 62
Police-Sponsored Recreation: Advantages and

Disadvantages . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Joseph E. Curtis 64
Abe (Poem) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Robert Kresge 67
Senior Citizens in Recreation—Things Being

Done By Them . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
Fellowships for Professional Workers Concerned with

Handicapped People . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
ADDIINISTRATION
Outdoor Swimming Pools—Part II . . . . . . . . .Ceorge D. Butler 74
The Recreation Board Member’s Creed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
Research Reviews and Abstracts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
PROGRADI
From Courtroom to Classroom . . . . . . . .- . . . . . . . .Helen Coover 82
A Cigarette or Jewelry Box (How to Do It!) . . .Frank A. Staples 83
Swimming for Handicapped Children. . . . .James F. Herdic, Jr. 84
How to Flavor Your Holiday Parties . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
Helping Senior Citizens to Direct Their

Own Activities, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jacqueline Watkins 88
Service Projects for Older People (Idea of the Month) . . . . . . . . 90

REGULAR FEATURES

Letters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54

Things You Should Know . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56

Editorially Speaking . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58

Reporter’s Notebook . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68

Listening and Viewing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 91

Personnel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . W. C. Sutherland 92

Market News . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94
Books and Pamphlets Received, Periodicals, ‘ .
Magazine Articles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95

New Publications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96

Advertisers Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96

How to Do It! Idea of the Month . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .See Program

Recreation Leadership Training Courses . . . . . . . . Inside Back Cover

51

Recreation

and

Adult Education

I am frequently
asked, what is the
difference be-
tween adult edu-
cation and recrea-
tion? The ques-
tion is raised, I
suppose, because
some activities
that are labeled “adult education” seem
to have some characteristics similar to
those labeled “recreation.” A group of

young women are making ceramics in
a Y W CA. Is this adult education or rec-

    

Malcolm Knowles

reation? A group of men are tying

trout flies in an evening high school
program. Is this adult education or rec-
reation? A group of young men and
women are folk dancing in a park dis-
trict fieldhouse. Is this adult education
or recreation? Or how about a painting
class, a music appreciation group, a
camera club, or even a discussion group,
that might be meeting in a church, a
school, a social agency, or a community
center?

Is the test whether the activity is
being sponsored by a recreation agency
or an education institution? Is it
whether the group is having fun? Is
it whether anybody is learning any-
thing?

Before trying to answer the basic
question as to the difference between
adult education and recreation, there
are a couple of prior questions we prob-
ably ought to tackle. The first is, why
is this an issue? Several reasons are

MALCOLM S. KNOWLES is the adminis-

trative coordinator for the Adult Edu-
cation Association in Chicago, Illinois.

52

P be paid for by the State . . .

given. One is professional training and
standards. If there is a difference be-
tween adult education and recreation,
then presumably different types of pro-
fessional training and standards are re-
quired for workers in each field.
Another is delineation of functions
among agencies.

As recently as 1951 a committee of
the California Senate criticized the pub-
lic schools of that state for including
activities in their adult education pro-
grams that the committee considered
recreation, on the score that recreation
activities are not appropriate in the
schools. It went so far as to state that
“There is considerable dOubt as to the
need for lecture and forum programs to
and the
line between education and entertain-
ment is often difficult to distinguis .”

I have even witnessed similar difii-
culties in delineation of function be-
tween departments of a single agency—H
a YMCA, to be specific. Perhaps a third
reason why this is an issue has to do
with the psychology of participation.
Some people seem to believe that 3 rec-
reation activity gets a different quality
of participation from its members than
an education activity—the former being
more carefree, the latter being more
purposeful.

A second problem we must tackle be-
fore we can get to the basic question
is that of definition. What do we mean
by “adult education” and “recreation.”
I like Howard Braucher’s definition of
recreation as “any form of leisure-time
experience or activity in which an in-
dividual engages from choice because of
the enjoyment and satisfaction that it

Editorial

Malcolm S. Knowles

brings directly to him.” I especially like
his extension of this definition: “Rec-
reation represents activity freely chosen,
which Offers the individual opportunity
for genuine satisfaction, creative ex-
pression, and development of his
powers.” I suppose this definition ap-
peals to me because it sounds so much
like my Own definition of adult educa-
tion as “any activity engaged in volun-
tarily by mature men and women that
produces changes in their knowledge,
understanding, skills, attitudes, inter-
ests, or appreciations.”

These definitions lead me to what I
used to think was the difference between
adult education and recreation; namely,
purpose. I find that in 1950 I wrote, “A
recreational activity is distinguished
from an adult educational activity by
the purpose of the participant. If an
individual participates in an activity for
the purpose of learning, for him it is an
educational activity; if he participates
in it for the purpose of enjoyment, it
is recreational.” _

I no longer believe this is the differ-

What is Your Attitude on
This Subject?

You, our readers, are invited to
write your ideas on this subject to
RECREATION Magazine, 8 \Vest
Eighth Street, New York 11, New
York, so that they maybe exchanged
with other readers via our Letters
page. If you wish to remain anony-
mous, please so state and we will use

only your initials. Your signature,
however, may bring you personal

answers—Ed.

 

RECREATION

p

g r ence. I have come to have too much
| I respect for the power of secondary learn—

leader. The thing I remember most
vividly about her leadership is that to

ings that occur almost without relation-
ship to the primary purpose of ah
activity. For example, the best job I
have ever seen done in changing preju-
diced attitudes toward racial minorities
occured as a secondary learning in a
social dance group. I have also come to
see that frequently the most enjoyable
activities are those that give the satis-
faction of personal growth and that the
best learning experiences are pleasur-
able.

This kind of analysis suggests that
the test of what is recreation and what
is adult education is outcome. If the
outcome of an activity is enjoyment and
satisfaction, then the activity is recrea-
tion. If the outcome is learning—the
development of knowledge, understand-
ings, skills, attitudes, interests, or values
—then the activity is adult education.
This is where I would take my stand
today.

I would like to go further, and say
that ideally there should be no differ-
ence between adult education and adult
recreation. My reasoning is that adult
education ought always to be recrea—
tional, in the sense that it should result
in “genuine satisfaction, creative ex:
pression, and the development of
powers.” And recreation ought always
to be adult education, in the sense that
it should yield the highest en oyment of
all, the enj oyment of self-improvement.

As I see it, the happy marriage of
these two approaches to human welfare
will occur not so much as the result of
abstract philosophizing as through the
artistry of our workers. The artistic
adult educator will introduce a recrea-
tion spirit into the serious study of great
books, or language, or public affairs, or
the arts, so that each individual will
derive from it not only a sense of per-
sonal growth but a sense of creative
satisfaction and an enjoyment of the
activity for its own sake. The artistic
recreation leader will introduce into
activities that are pleasurable in and of
themselves the added bonus of experi-
ence that produces personal growth and
broadened personalities.

On this latter point let me give a
few concrete examples. Years ago I had
the Opportunity to do some recreation
work with an unusually able recreation

FEBRUARY 1955

her no activity was a final, fixed equa-
tion. It was always in the process of
evolution. She constantly challenged her
groups to evaluate their experience and
improve upon it—invent new rules, new

.variations. She practiced what I now

see is an adult education attitude toward
recreation, in which each experience is
seen as a stepping stone to a new ex-
perience.

Some time later I had the good for-
tune to observe another adult educator
in recreation worker’s clothing. She was
the leader of a painting club—people
who had graduated from a painting
class and were now meeting weekly as a
club to pursue the pure pleasure of
creative painting. With the guidance of
this creative leader, the club would take
the art of a different country every
month or two as a special project; and,
in the course of its quest for beauty, the
group would learn more about the gen-
eral culture and human institutions of a
country than I have seen brought out in
courses designed Specifically for this
purpose. ,

I have seen other leaders of handcraft
groups, cooking groups, sewing groups,
and musical groups subtly stretch the
minds, broaden the interests and deepen
the appreciations of recreation groups
by the artistic use of “secondary learn-
ings.” I have, of course, also seen rec-
reation leaders who left their groups

exactly where they found them in their.

ability to enjoy life; and I have seen
adult educators who set the intellectual
curiosity of their groups back'ten years
by their dull teaching. Happily,~ both
types are rapidly disappearing as rec—
reation workers and adult educators are
increasingly coming to recognize how
much each has to give the other.

While adult education and recreation
may always have some distinguishing
difference in flavor, the evidence seems
clear that they are closer and closer to-
gether in aims and methods. I hope that
increasing numbers of adult educators
will avail themselves of the recreation
spirit in your splendid magazine, REC-
REATION. In turn, I’d like to invite rec-
reation workers to become familiar with
the adult education techniques de-
scribed in our magazine, Adult Leader-
ship.

skating“ g.

for health and '\


 

A WONDERFUL SPORT
at low cost and upkeep

It’s easy to start a roller skating program!
It’s a healthful exercise and the popular
way to build strong bodies. A favorite
with boys and girls and budget planners,
too . . . roller skating makes a grand co-
recreational activity. Handles the largest
groups quickly and easily. Halls, gyms,
or any large iioor area make fine roller
rinks. Invest in health and fun this season.

.---Ru'hher Tire. Skates--—-.

’ 9

‘  ABSOLUTELY w
“GUARANTEED
- NOTTO MAR,SCRATCH on DAMAGE-

Rink clamp skates developed by
CHICAGO specially for skating on
waxed'fioors. The rubber wheels
are ideal for use on tile, ballroom_,

. floors or any highly waxed surface.
Will not harm or mark.

Write Now to the leader in Rink
Skates on How to Start

“cu ICAG ”

ROLLER SKATE COMPANY
The Choice of Champions . . . for over 45 Years

4490 West lake Street—Chicago 24, Illinois

     
 
  

I I e
‘ ._ -- n . v-
‘ "* '11.!

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 53

100% ALUMINUM
TENNIS TABLE

For Outdoor and
Indoor Use

Here for the First Time is the Heavy-
Duty Aluminum Tennis Table
Featuring Durability and Economy.
Sturdily Constructed to Withstand
Extreme Abuse From Play and
Weather. Built to Last a Life-Time.

° Regulation Bounce and
Construction.

' Attractively Finished with
Permanent Green Anodized
Non-Glare Surface.

° Secured Solid Steel Center
Net.

° No Sharp Corners or Edges.

' No Maintenance or Replace-
ment Problems.

' Many Times More Economi-
cal Than Wooden Tables.

SPECIFICALLY DESIGNED AND
CONSTRUCTED FOR HEAVY-
DUTY USE IN:

Outdoor and Indoor Recreation
Centers, Playgrounds, Resorts, Clubs,
Camps, Ocean-going Vessels, etc.

All-METAL TENNIS TABLE (0.

760 George Street
Teaneck, N. J.

 

couple dances and mixers*

instructional records (with music)

Another impartant "HONOR YOUR PARTNER” teaching aid brought
to you by Square Dance Associates. In this album Ed Durlacher

presents his amazingly simple method of teaching American Couple
Dances and Mixers. He gives ora

III

in easy progressive steps.

You’ll find instructions and music for the Patty Cake Polka Mixer,
Rochester Schottische, Tandem Rochester Schottische, ‘

Five Foot Two Mixer, Narcissus, and the Paul Jones.

The Top Hands play the music in their own inimitable style under the
direction of Frank Novak. Music that sets the tempo for good

walk-through" instructions

 

Land for Recreation

Sirs:

With reference to your report on the
guide to acquiring areas for recreation
purposes as reported in the October
RECREATION magazine, page 475, I was
not the chairman of the committee. Phil
LeBoutillier, superintendent of recrea-
tion in Irvington, New Jersey, was the
guiding light and did a tremendous
amount of work to organize our full
report and deserves the credit. The com-
mittee was composed 'of Phil LeBoutil-

lier, Monte Weed, Frank Wood and
Robert D. Sisco. Monte, Phil and I pre-
sented the committee findings at the
district conference. The people in at-
tendance agreed the matter needed
further study in certain areas, particu-
larly question number one. Undoubtedly
the new committee, appointed by Mike
Wargo, district advisory committee
chairman, will do more research on re-

  
  
  
  

dancing and virtually lifts the dancers’ feet off the floor.

 

54

Square Dance Associates

a free descriptive folder.
NAME
ADDRESS- 

—.— 4— A

CITY__ ____....__ _.___ .__ _.ZONE

Canadian Distributors: Thomas Allen, Ltd., 266 King Street West, Toronto 28, Ontario
_ p p - _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ - p _ _ _ _ _ — - — - _ - _ — p — — _ _ _ _ _ _ _ — - — _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ J

Dept. R-4, Freeport, N. Y.
Gentlemen: I want to learn more about the HONOR YOUR PARTNER albums. Please send me

v—v——.~'—-——~r—r

*"Mixers" are social activators. "Wallflowers" and
timid souls of all ages are converted to active
participants in social activities.

All records are pressed on pure vinylite and are
guaranteed against breakage.

SQ UARE DANC E
ASSOCIATES

"*_’7_ 7 *—

— —r——— —u——n—————-—————u—

_STATE

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

vising the guide. Possibly something

could be done on a national level in

reference to this type of guide.
ROBERT D. SISCO, Superintendent,
Recreation and Parks Department,
Livingston, New Jersey.

0 On the mimeographed report re-
ceived by us, Robert Sisco was indicat-
ed as chairman. Sorry.—Ed.

Recreation and the Schools
Sirs:

In regard to Mr. Orcutt’s comments
on the school-recreation combination,
on your December Letters page, I per-
sonally could not agree more on the im-
portance of an administrative separa-
tion between the two.

In one position  maintained a while
back, recreation was administered by
the school board. In this particular in-
stance, it was a most unsatisfactory
alliance. During the summer months,
time was created by the school authori-
ties to spend on problems relating to
recreation. The other nine months of
the year school matters consumed the
total attention and interest of the school
board. Recreation was “advised” to sit
back and wait for another summer.

This was the obvious weakness of this
type of arrangement, but the feeling of
frustration that was constantly and per-
sonally involved made the situation un-
tenable for any but the uninitiated or
lethargic.

Having seen how school and recrea-
tion authorities can cooperate to the
best advantage of all the people, it is
still my feeling that the problems and
policies facing schools today are more
than a'full-time job in themselves. Tak-
ing on an additional responsibility as
impertant as recreation is not only
treating recreation unfairly, but it is
conveying the false impression that the
schools, and the challenges they present,
are not so great but that time can be
taken out to tend to other matters. This
is a fallacy that leads to unfortunate re-
sults. Educators, in their enthusiasm,
too often get carried away in trying to
develop the “total” individual. It is
time they recognized that it takes special-
ists in the field of recreation, as well as
specialists in the field of education, to
aid in the well-rounded development of
Homo sapiens. A little more thought
and study in methods of cooperation,

RECREATION

rather than control, toward recreation

will benefit all involved. 
PENNELL S. Evans, Superintendent

of Recreation and Parks, Ipswich,
Massachusetts.

* ‘II- 'I' 41'

Sirs:

Regarding Selwyn Orcutt’s school
recreation program at Fayetteville,
North Carolina, in the December issue
of RECREATION, I do not believe that we
will ever see the day when all authorities
agree on one single type of recreation
management. School boards in too many
communities are preoccupied with
purely educational problems. Too many
park boards are primarily concerned
with construction and maintenance of
their physical plants and know little
about the promotion of a broad recrea-
tion program. It would appear that the
recreation commission form of manage-
ment is by far the most desirable. But
how, for instance, are we going to tell
Milwaukee and Madison, two Wisconsin
cities which have outstanding programs,
that the management in these cities
should be taken away from their boards
of education? It would be folly even to
think of it.

There is every reason why school
boards and park boards should have a
strong voice in the public recreation pro-
gram, for the reason that the properties
upon which the recreation program is
conducted are generally under the uris-
diction of these boards. They cannot be
expected to give the use of their pr0per-
ties to another city board “lock, stock
and barrel” without a voice in how these
pr0perties are used. A representative of
the common council, that group which
supplies our financial needs, certainly
should have a voice in how recreation
funds are spent. In our case, the rec-
reation commission is made up of repre-
sentatives of the school board, park

 LEATHERCRAFT

WHETHER YOU HAVE USED LEATHER-
CRAFT IN YOUR CRAFTS PROGRAM, OR
ARE CONSIDERING IT AS AN ADDITION TO
YOUR PRESENT ACTIVITIES SCHEDULE,
YOU OWE IT TO YOURSELF AND YOUR
ORGANIZATION TO SEND FOR AND READ
OUR NEW SPECIAL CATALOGUE OF LEATH-
ERS AND LEATHERCRAFT AIDS Cr KITS.

    

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I We have specialized in Leathercraft as :1 rec-
: reational and vocational activities medium
: for the past 25 years. Our projects are de-
. Signed for all age groups, and our Factory-
: To-You service gives you top grade merchan-
. disc at substantial savings. If you work with
= youngsters of school age, teen-agers, or adults
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
5

—we have the very projects that will fit into
your crafts program.

Write for FREE CATALOG

Send for your free copy of our new 1955
Catalogue of Leathers and Leathereraft Sup-
plies. Ask for Catalogue No. 100. Do it today!

5. & S. lEATHER CO.
Colchester 2, Conn.

FEBRUARY 1955

 

board, and common council, along with
four citizens at large. In our own com-
munity, at any rate, the set-up is ideal.

There is, however, an element or
problem that can be resolved only on
the local level, a problem that varies in
each community, the problem of local
attitude. Unless both the school board
and park board are willing to make
their pr0perties available to the recrea-
tion department, little success can be
attained. Cooperation is required not
only in the use of physical facilities, but
particularly in the use of schools. The
superintendent must be recreation
minded if a successful program is to be
attained. A superintendent of schools
who is cool toward a recreatiOn pro-
gram, however managed, will be a
stumbling block. On the other hand, a
superintendent of schools who believes
that the school plant should be used by
the community, and, of equal impor-
tance, believes that school children
should be provided with a program of
wholesome recreation activities, can be
of tremendous value to the community’s
youth program.

We are fortunate in Racine in having
city and school authorities who are pro-
gressively cooperative. The recreation
department conducts both the school
and the municipal recreation programs,
one as important as the other.

B. A. SOLBRAA, Director of Recrea-
tion, Racine, Wisconsin.

Letter to Mr. Prendergast
Sir:

I wish to take this opportunity to com-
mend you and your staff for one of the
most successful recreation congresses
that I have attended in the last six years.

The whole congress was exceptionally
well planned.

The panelists were informative and
enthusiastic. It is impossible to say
which was the most valuable to us in
recreation in Florida, although the talk
by Dr. Campbell of the mass migration
of senior citizens to the south was the
most exhilarating and challenging to me.
We, here in Hollywood, where twenty-
five per cent of our total population are
senior citizens, are very conscious of
this influx and are now taking action to
meet the immediate needs.

This brings me to the most important
point—the recognition? that RECREATION
magazine has made of our community
participation project—the Chanukah-
Christmas pageant. We are deeply
grateful for this honor.

Another project which has just been
completed and has created intense in-
terest in Florida is our teen center
which you will hear about later through
the local and state level.

PATRICK J. HENECHAN, Recreation
Director, Hollywood, Florida.

 

     
     
     
  

/

 W  :1:
30 YEAR ANNIVERSARY-

.5
'._ u _.
I‘ '-
I.
'.

.‘

\\\.\,\.\.“ !!'.'.'I_[:.Ir.//[

 
 

CHEMICAL EQUIPMENT III].

1700 NO. MAIN STREET
P. O. Box 3098 Terminal Annex

Los AngeIes 54, Calif.
MIDWEST FACTORY BRANCH

205 W. Wacker Drive Chicago 6, III.
AGENTS IN PRINCIPAL CITIES

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 55

 

)BOND ISSUES AND LEVIES for recrea-
tion, reported to the National Recrea-
tion Association for 1954, showed a
grand total of successful bond issues of
almost thirty million dollars.

) NEW BOND ISSUE for forty million dol-
lars is being proposed by Los Angeles
for additional municipal recreation and
park facilities.

bPROPOSALS FOR TWO FREEWAYS
through Los Angeles’ Griffith Park,
made by the California State Highway
Department, have met with vigorous op-
position from that city’s park and rec-
reation commission.

The facilities which would have to be
moved include a model airplane flying
field, seven fairways on one of the golf
courses, an archery range, picnic facili-
ties, the pony ride and miniature .train.
In addition, the department’s construc-
tion and maintenance yards would have
to be changed.

Recreation and park officials all over
the country are increasingly concerned
about the attempts to use public park
properties for other public purposes,
and even in some instances for private
or semi-private functions. (See Ameri-
can City magazine for October, 1954,
page 106: “A Critical Comment . . .”).

)NEXT T0 BETTER HOME INFLUENCES,
the provision of better recreation oppor-
tunities is the best means of combating
juvenile delinquency, according tO a
poll of New York State residents taken
in 1954.

)JUVENILE DELINQUENCY and “what’s‘

happening to the younger generation”
receives full treatment in articles in the
Saturday Evening Post for January 8
and Collier’s for January 21. The Post
story, the first of a five-part report call-
ed “The Shame of America,” was writ-
ten by the executive director and the
chief council of the U. S. Senate Sub~
committee to Investigate Juvenile Delin-
quency. Bill Mauldin is the author and
illustrator of a long special report “What
Gives?” in Collier’s. Mauldin’s account
is based.».on personal interviews with
teen-agers throughout the country.

56

) OPEN To ALL STUDENTS, grades nine
to twelve, in daily attendance at any
public, private or parochial school, the

10th Annual National High School
Photographic Awards Contest will run

from January 1 to March 31, 1955. The
awards include a total of 256 prizes. In
connection with the contest Eastman
Kodak Company announces the avail-
ability of three photo fact sheets: How
to Make and Submit Prize-Winning
Pictures; Selecting and Preparing Pic-
tures for Publication; and Glossary of
Important Photographic and Photo-
Editing Words.

In all, twenty-nine photo fact sheets
are available to class advisers. These
include such subjects as photofiash,
close-up photography, developing, print-
ing, enlarging, candid and nature pho-
tography, filters, lighting, how to earn
a Boy Scout Merit Badge in photogra-
phy, and many others.

Additional information may be ob-
tained by writing to National High

School Photographic Awards, 343 State
Street, Rochester 4, New York.

) NEW ADDRESS: The Asphalt Institute,
which for many years has had its head-
quarters at 801 Second Avenue, New
York 17, New York, has established new
headquarters on the campus of the Uni-
versity of Maryland at College Park,
Maryland (on January lst) . The Insti-
tute’s executive offices and laboratories
will be located in a new building con-
structed especially for it and leased to
the Institute by the University.

) LEADERS OF TEENAGERS: If you are

concerned with planning Of programs
you would do well to read the article
“This Army Training They Go For” in
the January, 1955 issue of Woman’s
Day. Send for copy from 19 West 44th
Street, New York 36, New York. Price

for back copies: twenty cents.

) THE OPPORTUNITY FOR COMMUNITY
SERVICE in the field of welfare for chil«-
dren is a subject discussed in the No«-
vember Newsletter on Community
Health and Welfare Services of the In-
stitute of Life Insurance. In discussing

(C

recreation, the newsletter says .. .

adult volunteers, including life insur-
ance men and women, can find many
ways to help make their communities a
better place for children to enjoy rich
and satisfying play experiences. They
can serve as volunteer leaders, coaches
and instructors, They can serve in an
advisory capacity on recreation and
park boards.” Newsletter is distributed
to some 17,000 life insurance agents.

)A COMMUNITY RECREATION SALARY
STUDY is being made by the National
Recreation Association in order to bet-
ter answer requests for current salary
information. Questionnaires have been
mailed to executives with the Associa-
tion newsletters. Their prompt return
will assure success in gathering infor-
mation for all. (If you have received
one, please note I)

DWATCH FOR the special Playground
Issue of RECREATION, April 1955. If
you are expecting to use it in your play-
ground planning sessions or with play-
ground leaders training groups, order
your extra copies by the end of Febru-
ary——— to insure receiving the full num-
ber ordered.

) LEADERS IN SERVICE CLUBS FOR MILI-
TARY PERSONNEL, in the United States
or overseas, are invited to send stories
of unique parties and other social recre-
ation projects to RECREATION. Be sure
to include how-to-do information so
that other clubs will be able to use some
of your good ideas.

} A‘REPORT OF DEFENSE RELATED SERV-
ICES of the National Recreation Associa-
tion shows that from November 1, 1953
to November 30, 1954-— a thirteen
month period—287 different cities and
areas were served by the Association.
In 134 cities the field service was con-
cerned mostly with the community rec-
reation problems of armed forces per-
sonnel and their dependents. In 102
cities emphasis was on the recreation
problems of defense industrial person-
nel. In 48 cities community recreation
needs of both civilian and military de~
fense personnel were served. Special
attention was given to on-base problems
of servicemen and their dependents.

At the request of the Army and the
Air Force, the Association further gave
special attention to the “forgotten men”
of the services, in the aircraft and radar
units located in isolated places where
there are few opportunities for recrea-
tion outside of those which can be pro-
vided on base and in the scattered small
communities in the area. Both overseas
and in this country the number of Air
Force dependents living on base or in
nearby housing development is sub-
stantial.

RECREATION

d
u!!-
d--
d!-
viii-"
-cn
-ul
--—

-cn
i-‘—-—
--

an-
,.
‘_.-
-‘-__.—
.-
..
nil--

“-.‘-I

 
  

 

I...I-ICIIIIIIIIII-I-Iu-I-I-I-i

 

rI...---.-.-.-'-'---III-I...-‘

 
     
  
    

"Grude—Kolored”

TRADEMARK

Playground Bulls

Game directions for using balls in schools and playgrounds
are printed on the box. Easy to cut out and start a file.
Different games on each size box. Games include

dodge ball, circle stride, call ball. Dozens of others.

V» cup-J

Other features include: (1) four class or team colors to
choose from—red, orange, blue, green. (2) rugged 5-ply
I-~ “ rubber construction. (3) patented Kantleek Valve.

 

Sizes 6", 8%" and 10" in red, orange, blue and green. Each
class or team keeps its own color. In red only, sizes 5", 7 ”, 13”
and 16". Seamless “Grade-Kolored” Balls are available for
immediate delivery. Write that order today!

   

FINEST QUALITY SINCE 1877 '

ATHLETIC GOODS DIVISION THE SEAMLESS RUBBER COMPANY

g.
‘5‘qu

FEBRUARY 1955 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 57

®
NEW HAVEN 3, CONN., U.S.A.

 

Editorially Speaking

 

Emphasis in this Issue

Many recreation departments
throughout the country are proving that
no longer need oldsters be lonely and
isolated individuals with all of life’s
more pleasant and useful experiences
behind them. Leaders in public recrea-
tion departments, and other civic agen-
cies and organizations, are providing
senior citizens with opportunities for
social life, friendship and understand-
ing, development of skills, continuing
educational process, service to and en-
gagement in the affairs of the com-
munity, and an attractive center to
which they may repair for personal en-
joyment and an enrichment of life.

Through the years, since publication
of our special issue on recreation for
older adults in May 1949, we have car-
ried a number of articles on this subject.
Because of increasing interest and de-
velopment, however, we are including
several more such articles in this issue.

Reference for Leaders

A good reference for leaders of old-
ster groups: “The WorkshOp on Work-

ing with Older People,” Adult Leader-
ship, May 1954 issue. Available at fifty
cents per copy from Adult Education
Association, 743 North Wabash Avenue,
Chicago 11, Illinois.

Senior Citizens of America

This is a new nonprofit organization,
to “serve persons over forty years of
age in all walks of life in their personal
growth and community service,” which
was incorporated under the laws of the
District of Columbia on October 12,
1954, and began operations on Decem-
ber 1, 1954.

Joy Elmer Morgan, president of the
organization, was editor of the journal
of the National Education Association,
a position he held for thirty-four years,
until his retirement last December.*

Willard E. Givens, chairman of the
board of trustees, was formerly superin-
tendent of schools in Hawaii and in San

"‘ See December 1954 issue, NEA Journal.

58

Diego and Oakland, California.

A monthly magazine, Senior Citizen,
will be published by Senior Citizens of
America and edited by Mr. Morgan.
For further information write the or-
ganization at 1701 Sixteenth Street,
Northwest, Washington 9, D. C.

Adult Education and Recreation
for the Retired

In an article in Adult Education for
Everybody, a report published by the
New York Education Council, Inc., Dr.
John A. P. Millet writes:

“There are few people who appreciate
the fact that they can still find a place
for themselves in our society, of which
they will feel proud, once they have been
separated from whatever activity has
formed, for many years, the main focus
of their interest and the source of their
financial security. Those who have had
the foresight to develop auxiliary in-
terests are the fortunate minority. Those
whose families have foreseen the event
and have the financial and emotional
resources to assure a continuing and a
genuine role in the group belong to an
even smaller minority. . . .

“Mental health cannot be expected
unless the individual is active and has
some objective in his activity. He has
to feel that what he does is significant
and that its significance is recog-
nized. . . .

“It need hardly be added that the
profitable use of leisure-time activities
during the years of maturity, with due
consideration of which ones can become
enduring satisfactions, or even a neces-
sary means to gainful occupation, is a
field in which adult education can play
an increasingly important role.”

I I I I

At the recent annual conference of the
Adult Education Association in Chi-
cago, according to the New York Times,
a report on the adult education pro-
grams conducted by the United States
Department of Agriculture, told of
courses for adults ranging “from baby
care to jewelry making, marketing to

airplane mechanics, citizenship to busi-
ness training, French to philosophy,
public relations to social relations.” The
most common motive for enrolling in
night or day adult classes was to im-
prove professional skills. The next was
the desire for cultural advancement.
Many of the 1,555 students sampled'
mentioned the desire to make a wider
circle of friends and improve their so-
cial graces. A number of adults said
they wanted to learn how to get along
better with people or to be a better
leader of a group. Recreational or
leisure-time skills were of interest to
others. Most of these wanted to learn a
sport or hobby while some wanted
merely to relax or be entertained.

Anti-Delinquency

In legislative session, Congress in
August appropriated $75,000 for the
Children’s Bureau to increase its help
to states and communities on the prob-
lem of uvenile delinquency. The bureau
will use the new money to start expand-
ing its consultative services on such as-
pects of the delinquency problem as
community action to prevent delin-
quency; police, court, and institutional
services; training of personnel; re-
search, and so on. This work will be
carried on in close cobrdination with
the several national voluntary organiza-
tions which offer related consultation on
these matters.

Report and Portfolio Available

The Report on the National Confer-
ence on Juvenile Delinquency, a con-
ference called by the Secretary of
Health, Education, and Welfare, and
held in Washington last June, is.now
on sale by the Superintendent of Docu-
ments, Washington 25, D. C., for
twenty-five cents per copy, with a dis-
count of twenty-five per cent on orders
of one hundred or more copies.

Also ready is a portfolio of materials
which may possibly be helpful to groups
planning a delinquency conference or
meeting. In addition to sample copies
of many of the publications and reports
used at the conference, the kit includes
work group agendas and a discussion of
conference planning. Requests for the
kit should be addressed to the Special
Juvenile Delinquency Project, c/o Chil-
dren’s Bureau, Washington 25, D. C.

RECREATION

 

 

 

r, \

t \\

.. 9"“

Wilma Clizbe

Present trends, indicating the addition of thousands of
hours of free time to the lives of our older citizens, poign-
antly point up the need for serious consideration of leisure-
time activities on the part of individuals approaching re-
tirement and old age. Surveys have indicated that, among
people from sixty-five and up, the majority suffer acutely
from the abrupt change from busy employment to idleness
when retirement has not been carefully planned. Those
whose hobbies and interests were of arduous types, or were
extremely expensive, suffer a double shock.

In considering the selection of leisure-time activities,
their basic needs for emotional satisfaction require self-
expression, creative interests, productivity, health (both
physical and mental), appreciation, love, sense of belong-
ing, recognition and an opportunity to become an active
member of society.

It is possible to find ways of filling some of these needs
by oneself, but it requires the company of others to com-
plete the picture. Too frequently we are apt to push the
older person into a confined society of only those of his own
generation. While it is true that his happiest moments will
be in the company of chronologically compatible friends,
the older person also needs the stimulation of young adults
and, also, of children. However, here again the question of
individual differences arises and, while some of the oldsters
prefer companions of their own age exclusively and find the
children a disturbing element except for short periods of
time, others enjoy and need the company of all age groups.

Communities should assume a portion of the responsibility
of planning for and meeting the social needs of these older
folks.* With some assistance in the way of organization
and provision- of facilities, the oldsters will take Over. A
little outside direction, planning, and help in conducting
programs, and an encouragement of their own initiative will
open new worlds in their otherwise cloistered lives. Their
greatest need, unless unusually fortunate in their retirement
situation, is companionship. One of the paramount values
of companionship is the fact that you can usually count on
a good pair of listening cars from your companions. The
art of listening has never been eulogized adequately.

The trained professional leader will make certain that the

 

*See Recreation for the Aging by Arthur Williams, Association
Press, $3.00.

 

MRS. CLIZBE is the director of girls’ and women’s activities
for the recreation department in Dearborn, ichigan.

FEBRUARY 1955

“i Mi“ RECREATION PROGRAMS FOR THE AGING?

 

A bowling league has been organized by Dearborn members.
Eligibility requirements: roll a strike; form unimportant.

program is varied enough to include the likes and avoid the
dislikes of all the members. Quiet games, bingo, movies and
outside entertainment will usually serve the greatest number
of people at one time. However, the special-interest groups
must be given consideration and an opportunity to satisfy
their choices of programs.

While many of our senior citizens take part in the regu-
larly conducted recreation and community programs, they
cannot all be absorbed in the usual way inasmuch as their
ability to do things is so often limited by the physical in-
firmities and other handicapping factors of old age. It is
essential, then, for every community to further consider
these people in their planning, if local oldsters are to have
a satisfactory life after retirement.

Some pitfalls which can retard the successful development
of their social and avocational participation in group activi-
ties occur through:

1. Allowing trained leadership to dominate. (The leader
should remain in the background, leaving as much of the
planning as possible to members.)

2. Failure to recognize the fact that these people are apt

 
  
 
 
 
 
  

The monthly news organ of Mrs. Clizbe’s group
Pleasant News and Views, is extremely popular. It is
compiled by members who serve in all capacities, re-
porting, editing, mailing, and goes to all parts of the
United States. Members who have left the city request
this service as a means of keeping in touch with the

doings of all friends—Ed.

 

 
 

59

to reflect experiences which are not consistent with the think-
ing of the present generation.

3. Lack of consideration of the limitations of old age.
Activities should not strain their physical or mental capa-
cities.

4«. Overlooking the sensitivity and the personal likes and
dislikes of each individual.

5. Permitting leadership by the more aggressive mem-
bers of the group to dominate.

6. Condoning the volunteer help of “do-gooders” who
leave the older folks with the feeling of having been “helped”
by a charitable dowager. I

7. Using undesirable physical facilities for meetings-—
flights of stairs to he climbed, poror lighting, poor heating,
unfriendly atmosphere, and bad location which creates
transportation problems.

8. The placing of financial restrictions on membership
through dues and assessments.

Financial independence does not always mean happy re-
tirement at the close of a lucrative career. Too frequently
these people return to the small towns of their childhood
only to find that they are not the same. They are out of
touch with the friends of their youth; another generation
has taken over, and they are made to feel like has-beens.
Many familiar land marks have been replaced, and reviving
childhood memories proves to be impossible. An extended
visit back to the “old home town” should precede a perma-

nent move, in order to ascertain what it can offer for a full
life in retirement.

The problems of retirement for the financially independ-
ent should be easily solved with careful planning. Whole
new vistas may‘be opened to them through extensive travel
with intervals between trips to recuperate and to plan the
next jaunt. Months may fruitfully be spent in the study of
travel folders, trips to libraries, and in making other prep-
arations for a new adventure.

Without financial worry, any avocation with appeal may
be followed. Perhaps this is the individual who has always
wanted to do a bit of farming in the ultra-modern style pre-
scribed by the agriculture boys. Now is his chance to put
into practice some of his own ideas. However, he should be
sure that this is his interest and should not jump into this
type of retirement without adequate investigation.

Those individuals who are fortunate enough to be in a
financial position to take an active part in philanthropic
work can find real contentment by attaching themselves to
some good cause and putting time and thought into it. A
time-schedule for work, play, study, rest, and service to
others is essential.

A note of warning is sounded by Raymond P. Kaighn, in
H ow to Retire and Like 113* : “Reminiscing, worrying about
your health, and criticizing youth are three sure indications
of approaching senility. Keep out of that pitfall by building
up some friendships among younger people. You will never
be without friends, even if you live to be. a hundred and all
the old ones have long since passed on to glory.”

*Published by Association Press, $1.75.

 

RECREATION
in the Day of
KING CHARLES I

Some precious humor is contained in a publication from
the reign of Charles I, in which recreation after church is
ordered because its “prohibition barreth the common and
meaner sort of people from using such exercises as may
make their bodies more able for war.” Therefore, archery
and May Pole and Morris Dances are to be permitted but
“not bowling for the meaner sort of people.” Evidently
bowling was for the upper classes and not good military
training for the masses. It is noted “no sort of offensive
weapons be carried in the times of recreation after church.”
Did the BishOp insert this clause so as to make it safer for
a dull rector to preach a long and irritating sermon? This
precaution was also taken to “prohibit said recreation to
those not present in the church before their going to said
recreation.” History tells us that Charles I who issued this
Declaration Concerning Lawful Sports lost his throne and
his head at the same moment. Was this because he pro-
hibited Sunday recreation to those absent from church?—

60

   

Or did the Bowlers League gang up against him because
he forbade bowling to “the meaner sorts”? ' Anyhow we can
see that recreation supervisors sometimes lost their heads

in 1633 as well as in 1954.—Ott0 T. Mallery, Chairman,

National Recreation Association Board.

RECREATION

 

“Each of these humble men knew truth and honest courage . . .

Personalities I Have Met

 

RICHARD SCHIRRMANN

Richard was born amidst medieval-
ism—his father was a tall, stocky Prus-
sian; his mother, austere and religious,
believed that “God always takes care of
Richard.” On Saturday nights the fam-
ily played music, sang, and danced. The
tow-headed boy was reared under the
strange blend of naturalness and awe.
There were also two worlds in the vil-
lage—one, that of the countryside
owned by a rich baron; the other, that
of his father who was a teacher of com-
moners and a free man, a thinker, very
much aroused by the feudal system.

Richard had to get up at three in the
morning to feed the pigs, milk the cows,
and work in the fields. He rode a high
bicycle with solid tires a hundred and
fifty kilometers to school. He used
staves from an old rainbarrel to make
skis. Whatever he learned he shared
with his village playmates.

In 1901 Richard was a member of the
Wandervogel (Birds of Passage), and
he became a teacher. As an outgrowth
of the “wandering” movement, he con-
ceived the idea of a “folk school hostel.”
In his schoolhouse in Altena, Westpha-
lia, Germany, he placed straw on the
floor of the eight classrooms so the
“wandering” children of the common
people might have a place to sleep dur-
ing vacation time. \

By 1910 there were three hostels.
During the period of 1914-1918 a num-
ber of cities collected five pfennigs per
capita for the use of youth hostels. Wil-

CAP’N BILL VINAL“, Professor Emeritus
of the University of Massachusetts, 
the well-known author of books and ar-
ticles on nature topics and the out-of-
doors. His personality sketches of F a-
ther Link and Stanton H. King, ap-
peared in the May 1953 and October
1953 issues of RECREATION, respectively.

FEBRUARY 1955

helm Munker, a manufacturer, made it
possible to start a hostel in a castle. He
and Richard were kindred souls who ap-
preciated nature; both are now eighty
years old. Munker and the philosopher
Schirrmann faced the mailed list of the
Nazis (1933-1945) ; only Hitler Youth
in uniforms were then allowed to use the
hostels. Richard was nearly blinded by
gas thrown in his face by young Nazis;
his home was surrounded by barbed
wire. He was a marked man.

By 1939, for security reasons, Rich-
ard ceased to have anything to do with
hosteling. He took a position in the
small, remote village of Gravenweis-
bach, where he taught geography, na-
ture, and sports for six years. It was
not long before he had a swimming pool
outside of town. He took the young-
sters on walks, taught them swimming,
skiing, singing, and folk dancing. By
winning the children he soon won the
parents. Today a public forest is being
set aside in his honor. a

I first met Richard in 1935 at the
National Recreation Congress in Chi-
cago; and certainly then I hadn’t any
notion of the future war, nor did 1 sur-
mise that the ‘next time I spent with
Richard would be in his home in Gra-
venweisbach. In 1947 I was sent to Eu-
rope by the American Youth Hostels
Association to study hostels in seven
war-torn countries. Richard and I were
traveling third class in a railway coach
from Frankfort to Berlin. It was then
that I learned his biography.

About half of the 1,700 prewar hos-
tels are in the Russian zone as Freier
Deutscher Iagend, a Russian successor
of Hitler Youth. Individuals who join
are given extra rations of food, stock-
ings and shoes. In Western Germany
the hostel organization is a small work-
ing unit which simulates the UNO- I

99

William G. Vinal

‘ have shared, with Belgians, English,

Dutch, French, Scots and Swiss, potluck
suppers where they lustily sang each
other’s songs. They crave to travel to-
gether and, above all, seek leadership
with democratic principles.

I saw American leaders returning to
help German hostelers rebuild the very
buildings they once destroyed. In Wash-
ington there is a monument “Erected
by the Congress of the United States to
Frederick William Baron Von Steuben
in Grateful Recognition of his Services
to the American People in their Strug-
gle for Liberty.” Today the German
people, in fact the people of the whole
western world, are looking to America
in their struggle for liberty.

Space is running out. There are other
great personalities I wanted to write
about. They can wait. I cannot help
thinking how Joseph Lee would have
enjoyed each one that I have presented.
Howard Braucher’s philosophy would
approve. In fact the thinking of the
whole staff of the National Recreation
Association as I knew it would gravitate ‘
toward these “free” but talented men.
Each demonstrated that ideals can be
promoted by any nationality. Each was
a genius on obscurity. Each was a true
recreationist, dedicated to the ideals of
respect for people and human rights,
whose leadership was original and did
not come from a book. Each one first
had faith in life, with the center of his
religious life resting in nature and the
common man.

They were humble men who had
rubbed elbows with life—each after his
own manner. Each had truth and cour-
age in good measure. I am grateful for
having known them. I am grateful that
I can share my memories ’of them. Dick-
ens said, “Life is given us on the under-
standing that we defend it to the last.”
This is a time in history when great
personalities are needed to go forth with
honest courage.

61

o .0 0 °
feareatm “m “WWW
. 0

Al Tillman

A new recreation frontier has been
exposed recently. A fast-growing water
sport called “skin diving” has been
nursed along for some twenty-five years
by a few rugged beach athletes, and the
thrill and excitement has been little rec-
ognized by the general public.

Within the last year or so, and with-
out one single reSponsible factor, a
magical and startling growth of interest
has taken place. Newspapers, maga-
zines, motion pictures, and television
have directed public attention to the
world’s fastest growing sport. A re-
ported one million skin divers in the
United States are eagerly accepting this
recognition.

Why the sudden boom? Some people
single out World War II, with the advent
of the underwater army of frogmen, as
stimulating the rise of interest. These
underwater demolition teams put into
use brand new equipment which has
i made skin diving a comfortable activity
for participants other than the super
athlete. The depression years put a lot
of divers into the sport in search of sea-
food, and even today a taste for abalone
and lobster creates much of the interest.

Shell collectors have found a new
paradise by entering the water in pur-
suit of their hobby. No longer must
they scour the near-barren shorelines
for scuffed, bleached shells, but are able
to take living, unblemished specimens
from the ocean bottom.

Historians and archaeologists have
predicted a fantastic new gateway to

 

 

 

MR. AL TILLMAN took a ten weeks’
course in skin diving at the Scripps
Institute of Oceanography at La Jolla,
California. He is, at present, recreation
director, Department of Parks and
Recreation, County 0/ Los Angeles.

62

knowledge of ancient history by seeking
relics of past civilizations beneath the
sea. A Greek merchant ship discovered
recently (by French divers using breath-
ing devices) contained large vases of
wine which had been sealed in approxi-
mately the year 200 B.C.

Diving specialists of the Los Angeles
County Department of Parks and Rec-
reation uncovered a sixty-five pound In-
dian grinding bowl in the sea near one
of the newly discovered Indian burial
grounds. Skin divers are also aides to
small craft in recovering fouled lines,
anchors, and outboard motors; and
many amateur sailors have become
underwater devotees because of such
possibilities.

Spearfishing and catching lobsters in
their own element offer a sport as com-
petitive as any ever conceived above the
surface, since the diver’s Opponent has
the advantage of natural abilities and
environment. All of these things have
contributed in part to the seething
growth of underwater recreation.

However, the really vital factor can-
not be described. When a man sinks
beneath the waves and into what ap-
pears a dark, forbidding mass of water,
a strange, breathtaking thrill surges
through him. Sunlight sharply high-
lights a multitude of strange objects and
colors, and an unbelievable world hid-
den from ordinary man arouses the
thirst for adventure and discovery.

The ocean is everchanging and like
the “jungle where no human has ever
set foot,” it presents the ultimate for the
man seeking excitement. Science fiction
can well recognize a worthy competitor.

The Los Angeles County Department
of Parks and Recreation, in recognizing
the rccreational needs of all the people
of Los Angeles County, movcd quickly

   

  

. -.. a ‘ ‘Ja-M’b'd
Diving instructor for the Los Angeles
County Lifeguards gives final brief to
graduating students entering the surf.

into the skin-diving picture in 1950.
Playground directors and lifeguards
helped in the formation of many skin-
diving clubs in which the sport was pro-
moted and safety was continuously
stressed. Activity was limited to a few
club meetings until department superin-
tendent B. P. Gruendyke and executive
assistant Norman Johnson assigned
aquatics director “Rusty” Williams,
sports director Charles Bolinger, and
myself to the task of setting up a skin-
diving program.

The Council of Diving Clubs and the
International Underwater Spearfishing
Association are two fine organizations
promoting this sport. We have joined
the efforts of these groups and have put
into effect a public agency-sponsored
program which will give skin diving a
permanent niche in the recreation activi-
ties of the county.

County lifeguard Bev Morgan as-
sumed the actual management of the
proposed program in January, 1954;
and one of the first free skin-diving
classes evcr sponsored by a public
agency was initiated in three county
swimming pools in J une 1954..

The classes are based upon the hard
work of many people and the best avail-
ablc information. Months of research
and personal contacts have yiclded an
underwater safety manual that is thc
most thorough and comprchensive pub-

RECREATION

 

lication issued to date for the general
public. The classes use the material pre-
sented in this manual. The department
of parks and recreation is now co-
operating with other offices of the Los
Angeles County government, looking
toward a more stringent law covering
the sale of skin-diving equipment in the
interests of public safety.

Each of the three pools has a similar
program of classes: beginners’ skin div-
ing; advanced skin diving; and self-
contained underwater breathing appa-
ratus training. The classes are followed
by an inspiration hour during which
movies, guest experts, and commercial
equipment demonstrations are pre-
sented.

The beginners learn how to swim
underwater, submerge, use swim fins,
and face pieces, equalize pressure, water
safety, water first aid, and to recognize
marine life. The advanced students re-
view the beginners’ program, learn how
to use an exposure or rubber suit and
a surface breathing device called the
snorkle, study ocean conditions, special
diving problems, and techniques.

The self-contained underwater breath-
ing apparatus class concerns the operat-
ing technique, maintenance and hazards
in using a breathing unit. These classes,
each an hour in length, are conducted
over a six-week period. Entrance re-
quirements are: fundamental swim
tests; good physical condition; and for
minors, parents’ consent.

The final class consists of a test which
qualifies the individual to participate in
an ocean graduation ceremony. The first
such graduation has been held and more
than one hundred and fifty participants
received their certificates of completion.
The location was a choice county diving
beach at Torrance, and extremely clear
water provided an additional stimulus.
Lobsters, fish of all species, and a va-

riety of shells gleamed enticingly from
the mysterious ocean floor. The big
problem was that of keeping each group
of graduates corralled in a single area,
as the desire to exercise newly developed
skills and explore was pulling them in
many directions.

Future graduations will be embel-
lished with club diving contests (the
clubs are formed from the graduates of
the program), treasure hunts, water-
proof certificates issued underwater,
and an opportunity for guests of the
graduates to view the activities through
look boxes from small boats.

Some very vital fields of recreation
have received a boost from our skin-
diving program. Several family groups
completed the course together and will
enjoy joint recreation activity for years
to come in which each member of the
family can participate. This is family
recreation in the finest sense, providing
outdoor exercise, new friends, and new
conversation for the family dinner table.

Are the teen-agers in your neighbor-
hood looking for excitement? This
group makes up a large prOportion of
our skin-diving classes and they have
found thrills unlimited in diving into
the depths of an unexplored world.
Many of these boys and girls are finding
interests through diving which will lead
them into professions and occupations
later. The world is looking with greater
frequency to the sea to supply new raw
materials and water if we are to meet
the demands of rapidly increasing popu-
lation.

Skin-diving has become the most ap-
pealing new sports activity that this
county has seen in a great many ‘years.
We are proud that our parks and recrea-
tion department, by providing a pro-
gram of public safety and interest, has
the opportunity to lead the way as rec—
reation goes underwater.

You might be interested to know that underwater activities was the topic for the main
work group at the recent Conference for National Cooperation in Aquatics held in New
Haven. The experts present differentiated between skin diving, which includes activities in
which the participant has contact with the surface or remains under water for brief periods

OHIY. and activities involving the use of self-contained underwater breathing apparatus,
known as "Scuba." The latter type of activity involves the use of tanks with air under pres-
sure permitting the participants to stay under water for long periods and at great depths,

and therefore requires more adequate supervision than skin diving.—George D. Butler,
Director, NRA Research Department.

 

FEBRUARY 1955

    

Unsurpassed

IN STRENGTH, DESIGN
AND DURABILITY

    

$2 You will begin to understand what
superior materials, fine craftsmanship
and smart modern designing can mean
to your pool when you install your first
American Streamlined Regulation One
Meter Diving Unit. You'll know right
away that American Approved Equip-
ment is the kind you want for your pool
. . . and you'll discover that the ten-
years-ohead styling is iust one of many
exclusive plus features you get with
AMERICAN. Beautifully Streamlined
Design . . . Outstanding Performance

. . . Lifetime Durability . . . there's all that
and more in AMERICAN APPROVED
SWIMMING POOL EQUIPMENT.

u._‘

    

American Approved DB-I Extra Heavy Duty
Official Regulation One Meter Diving Unit

 

American Approved American Heavy Duty

Steel Pool Ladder Life Guard Chair

’Write for Literature

AMERICAN

PLAYGROUND DEVICE CO.

ANDERSON, INDIANA, U. S. A.

WORLD‘S LARGEST MANUFACTURERS OF FINE
PARK, PICNIC, PLAYGROUND, SWIMMING
POOL AND DRESSING ROOM EQUIPMENT


BRANCH PLANT ATNAHMA. MICHIGAN

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 63

 

ADVANTAGES AND DISADVANTAGES

Joseph E. Curtis

A11 interesting analysis by an author
who has a background of experi-
ence on both sides of this question.

HE FACT that wholesome recreation, properly planned

and administered, can aid in deterring juvenile crime
and waywardness has become fairly Well established, al-
though recreation is no cure-all for this complex problem in-
volving so many factors in our modern society. Nevertheless,
experience has shown that, generally, young people are less
inclined toward delinquent behavior when they are partici-
pating in recreation activities than when they are left to
pass their leisure time aimlessly. Since the function of the
police department in American society is as much to pre-
vent crime as to apprehend criminals, it appears that police
are completely ustified in utilizing the recreation method in
crime prevention, particularly among young people.

The question, then, is not whether or not police should
use this method, but rather how it should be done. Should
police departments establish and operate their own separate
recreation programs and facilities, or should they depend
entirely upon the programs and facilities of existing private
and public recreation agencies? The following analysis of
police-sponsored recreation should aid in resolving this
question.

The use of the recreation method by individual police of-
ficers in their work with youth is not new. Examples of it
have occurred since the formation of the first organized
law-enforcement agencies. The night watchman or con-
stable of colonial times who attempted to straighten out a
wayward boy by introducing him to the town athlete Was
using it. Likewise, the modern policewoman who induces a
confused teen-age girl to join a local girls’ club rather than
loiter on street corners is utilizing, to an extent, the recrea-
tion method in crime and delinquency prevention.

In recent years, however, the value of the recreation
method has become widely recognized by police and social
work agencies, and its utilization is rarely left to chance or
the individual police oHicer’s imagination. This is particu-

JOSEPH E. CURTIS is now director of recreation, Oceanside,
New York, and is a member of the National Recreation
Association’s National Advisory Committee on the Recruit-
ment, Training and Placement of Recreation Personnel.

64

 

_. .p  e.
The author, in patrolman’s uniform, sinks basketball shot

at official opening of New York City’s play streets in 1950.
PAL operates seventy-five of these nine weeks each year.

A.

larly true in large cities. Hundreds of police departments
in this country and abroad use recreation on a carefully
planned and organized basis. Their devices range over a
wide field, from the forming of a single athletic team or
club by an individual policeman in a small community to
such large-scale operations as the Boys Clubs of Baltimore,
the Junior Police of Los Angeles and the Police Athletic
League of New York City.

In most instances, the size of the community or municipal-
ity has governed the size or extent of the police-sponsored
recreation program. In some small communities the police
have simply entered a team or two in a local private sports
program, while in certain large cities the police-sponsored
recreation unit operates a full-scale athletic program of
leagues, schedules, and championship tournaments for large
numbers of teams organized by itself. Likewise, in most
small communities the police have utilized local public or
private recreation facilities, while some larger cities have
established separate recreation centers, fields, playgrounds
and other facilities.

Sports is the most frequent program activity utilized, but
some of the larger police-recreation programs include dra-
matics, dancing, arts and crafts, music and even outdoor
camping at some distant campsite. Boys’ activities tend to
be emphasized far beyond those for girls, in most cases.
A notable exception to this is the track and field program
operated by the New York City Police Athletic League. This
city-wide program has reached many thousands of young-
sters, and the participation of girls in terms of numbers and
achievement has rivaled that of boys.

RECREATION

 

 

The success to date of these varied devices and techniques
of police-sponsored recreation would be difficult to appraise.
The reason is that police recreation, as a field, is still too
heterogeneous in aims, techniques, and scope for an objec-
tive appraisal of it in its entirety. In some cities operating
such programs, a high participation figure might be inter-

 

These men come in contact with a large number of groups,
especially in crowded, underprivileged sections of big cities.

uniformed policeman still exists.

Hero-worship of the

preted as success. However, if closer inspection indicated
that the majority of participants were not those in whom the
police should be interested, or if large numbers of those
youngsters situated in subnormal environments were being
missed or ignored, then the success would be dubious. Simi-
larly, the acquisition of additional sports and recreation fa-
cilities, increased staffs and budgets, better publicity and
public relations should not in themselves be construed as evi-
dences of successful operation. Police-sponsored recreation
is based on the premise that it will help to prevent crime by
working with youth. Only accurate long-range studies of
large numbers of cases and situations in which recreation is
used by police as a crime-prevention device will establish
with some certitude the success or failure of the police-spon-
sored recreation program.

Frequently, at professional recreation conferences and
meetings, a public or private recreation executive or worker
may be heard speaking in much this way: “Why don’t those
cops stick to their police work and leave recreation work to
recreation people?” or “Things were fine in our town until
the police chief decided to start a P.A.L. Then he moved in,
took over the best facilities, and started competing with
‘ everyone else.”

At the same meetings, however, there are just as many
reports of wise use of the recreation method by a police of-
ficer or department, or of excellent cooperation between po-
lice and local recreation authorities on a joint recreation
project. In a small New Jersey town, for example, the one-
man Police Athletic League staff of the local police depart-
ment is doing an outstanding job. Instead of competing

FEBRUARY 1955

with local recreation authorities, this police oflicer works
with them. He uses their facilities and programs, feeding
his troublesome gangs or individuals into the public recrea-
tion activities. In reciprocation, he provides police coopera-
tion to the public and private agencies by expediting the pro-
curement of parade permits, permits for use of fire hydrants
and for other recreation projects. He helps with the coach-
ing of teams, officiating at games, and assists the recreation
workers in a number of other ways. Cooperation is the key
to the smooth-working system in this town.

A consideration of some advantages and disadvantages
involved when the community police sponsor and operate
recreation programs should be helpful:

Advantages

1. The traditional hero-wership in boys and girls for
the uniformed policeman still exists. The “cop” who can
box, hit a homer in softball, sink a long shot in basketball,
or run a fast mile is twice the hero he would be in civilian
clothes. This. may serve as a bridge between youth and the
law.

2. Police are extremely close to the grass roots of com-

'munities everywhere. They come into daily contact with

the infinite number of groups, organizations, nationalities,
and individuals which make up communities. This is par-
ticularly true in crowded, underprivileged sections of large
cities. These contacts can be invaluable in organizing an
indigenous recreation program for youth in such areas.

3. Much of the policeman’s daily work is with youth.
Whether he is checking on cases of truancy, youthful drink-
ing, ball games in streets, teen-age “hot-rodding,” or simply
returning a lost or runaway child, the policeman is deve10p-
ing an awareness and firsthand understanding of the psy-
chological problems and recreation needs of children and
youth.

4. Frequently, the authority connected with the police-
man’s position may be needed to open up a tight situation.
For example, he may pressure a street-corner gang into
visiting a local agency so that members may at least be in-
troduced to the many recreation activities and facilities avail-
able to them. Some persons may question the value of this
authoritarian approach to the promotion of“recreation in-
terests. . These critics must realize, however, that the finest
program and facilities are of no avail if youths in delin-
quency-infected areas do not choose to enter the building or
program for so much as a look. Percentage-wise, if this
method encourages no more than one in ten to enter the pro-
gram and return regularly, then its use has been more than
justified. Note that this point refers chiefly to police and rec-
reation in highly delinquent areas.

You, the reader, are invited to write your ideas on
this subject to RECREATION Magazine, 8 .West Eighth
Street, New York 11, New York, so that such ideas may

be exchanged with other readers via our Letters page.

If you wish to remain anonymous, please so state and
we will use only your initials.—Ed.

 

5. The age and background of today’s policemen repre-
sent factors not to be overlooked. Today’s policemen are,
generally, a younger body of men than the police forces of
twenty-five years ago. Among them are a high percentage
of war veterans, athletes, and men who have attended some
college. Their personalities, former occupations, war ex-
periences, and widely varied backgrounds represent a bridge
useful in reaching and working with wayward youngsters
who might scorn the conventional community recreation
approach.

Disadvantages

1. Prevention of crime and maintenance of the public
peace constitute the prime raison d’etre of police depart-
ments. This does not include providing recreation programs
and facilities for youth. Consequently, all the difficulties
involved in attempting to carry out a strange additional duty
are inherent in this situation.

2. Most police department budgets are trimmed to the
minimum on even the most orthodox police equipment and
activities. Rarely, if ever, is any sizable fund provided for
police-sponsored recreation programs. Therefore, finances
must be augmented by soliciting donations, through ticket
sales, fund drives, and so on. Frequently, this places the uni-
formed policeman in the role of ticket or “ad” salesman or
gift solicitor. Public reaction is generally good financially
but poor psychologically. Policemen dislike this task even
more than those solicited. In addition, it puts an exorbitant
value _on publicity for the program since it must be kept con-
stantly before the public eye to assure continued contribu-
tions. It is a short step to the highly touted tournaments and
champions, the endless pictures of politicians and celebrities
donating cash or presenting trophies, and the consequent
neglect of the raggle-taggle youths who are lost somewhere
along the way.

3. Owing to their small operating budgets and the in-
formal manner in which many police-sponsored recreation
programs are established and operated, little regard has been
shown for the professional training and background of the
operating personnel. This is true particularly in the police-
sponsored recreation activities of towns and small cities.
In the larger cities greater concern has been evidenced re-
garding professional preparation. By and large, however,
the general pattern in selecting staff is to choose young police-
men, frequently former athletes, who have some college
background, physical training in the armed forces, or youth
work in camps or in boys’ activities. Rarely are any profes-
sional requirements beyond these established or adhered to.
There has been an increase of in-service training, but a great
deal more of this is needed.

4. Police departments and their methods of operation
have evolved slowly over the years and many of the old-time
philosophies and techniques still linger on. Steeped in
tradition as it is, the modern police department may still,
on occasion, be guilty of an anachronistic philosophy or
technique, and this can thwart the efforts of the police rec-
reation program or unit. For example, a policeman doing
an excellent job in youth work may be returned to pounding
a beat in uniform upon relatively short notice for any num-

66

 

In a recreation center in Charlottesville, Virginia, boys
mtently watch masse shot. The “law” is not needed here.

ber of reasons. This could discourage an ambitious youth-
work officer from laying too extensive plans or programs in
his temporary recreation assignment. He may further be
discouraged by the attitude of his fellow policemen who
frequently regard the officer doing youth or recreation work
as having “pull” or being in a “soft” detail.

5. The policeman is one of the starkest realists alive. His
work makes him so. Consequently, he is often prone to
question the values of social work techniques used in de-
linquency prevention and treatment. True, the esoteric aims
and motives of some social case workers in handling juvenile
delinquents have frequently justified this skepticism on the
part of the uniformed officer who must cope daily with the
problems on the street. Nevertheless, this has created a sit-
uation wherein little rapport exists between the working
policeman and the social and recreation workers in his locale.
Many police departments operate a uvenile or youth bureau,
one of the functions of which is to maintain this liaison be-
tween police and public and private youth and recreation
agencies. However, this arrangement has the drawback of
placing a third party between the private social or recreation
worker and the policeman on the street who is in closest con-
tact with the actual situation.

There are additional advantages and disadvantages of
police-sponsored recreation, but these preceding should give
a good indication of the breadth of the problem. '

General Recommendations

For those who may be planning to institute programs of
police-sponsored recreation:

1. Determine the need for recreation—Study the specific
problem, condition, or community closely from several an-
gles. There should be ample reason to believe that a recrea-
tion program will help the situation or else the program is
not worth considering. Sound professional recreation and
social work advice should be solicited to aid in determining
this need.

2. Search for an existing agency to meet the need—What-
ever the condition or problem, it is quite possible that an or-
ganization or agency already exists locally which can meet
this need for recreation. Is there a municipal recreation de-
partment? Comb the area for a club, settlement house, youth

RECREATION

 

agency, group work agency, church or school group, or any
other existing unit which may be equipped to meet the need, or
which may, in fact, already be attempting to meet the need.
Upon finding such an agency, enlist its help in doing the job.

3. Help the agency—After enlisting the aid of the local
agency to meet the need for recreation, throw all the help
and support you can muster into assisting the agency to do
the job. Work as closely as' possible with agency personnel
who are attempting to meet the particular need. For ex-
ample, if a group of wayward boys has been entered in a
local youth club’s program by a policeman interested in their
case, this policeman can assist the club staff by being present
when possible at meetings involving the boys, by partici-
pating occasionally in sports events with them, by encourag-
ing them to participate more and more in the recreation
program, and by keeping the agency personnel posted on
any new outside deve10pments which might affect the boys’
behavior. Occasionally, he may provide the authority needed
to keep the boys in the program long enough for it to have
some perceptible effect. His continued interest in these
cases can have a very definite effect upon the results of the
agency’s work with them.

4. Establish police-sponsored programs—When the search
fails to disclose a local agency capable of meeting the deter-
mined recreation need, a police-sponsored recreation pro-
gram. should be established to do the job. This may mean
anything from the formation of an individual athletic team,
league or boxing club, to building and stafiing police-spon-
sored playgrounds and youth centers.

If, however, at a laiter date, a private agency is located or
a new agency is instituted which can adequately meet the
need for which the police-sponsored recreation unit was es-
tablished, then the police should withdraw from the operat-
ing field and lend all support to the agency assuming the
task. This is consistent with the policy that police-sponsored
recreation is established and operated only where there is no
other public or private agency capable of meeting the spe-
cific recreation need concerned.

For Units in Operation

Additional suggestions for police-sponsored recreation
units already in operation:
1. Confine your activities to definite trouble spots or areas.

Abe

Robert Kresge

Superintendent of Recreation
Charleston, West Virginia

“Honest Abe” the story goes,

Spent his youth in homespun clothes,
Steeled his muscles splitting rails,
Wrestled some, grew hard as nails;
Kentuck’ first, then Illinois

Knew this gangly, homely boy.

Read a lot by firelight,

Just of course when it was night,
As a lawyer of a sort,

Went before the Springfield court,
Not too bad at law, it seems,

With his stories—and his dreams.

states.

FEBRUARY 1955

Liked his politics, by gum,

Ran for Congress, yes, and won,
Did all right but didn’t shine,
Abe ust seemed to bide his time,
Just awaitin’ for the day

When he’d really have his say.

Came that day, then Abe spoke out,
What he said was most about
Slaves not being property

But humans just like you and me;
Thanks to Douglas and debates
Abe’s name spread throughout the

Soon thereafter most folk meant
Abe to be their president,

Concentrate on these. To provide broad, city-wide programs
of community recreation for all children is, after all, not
within the scope of the average police department. This is
the job of the public and private recreation agencies estab-
lished specifically for this purpose.

2. Keep overhead and operating procedures to a minimum.
Avoid duplicating the work of other recreation agencies or -
competing with them.

3. Obtain professionally qualified personnel, whether they
be policemen or civilian employees. Beware of entrusting
this recreation program to “just anyone.”

4. Cooperate closely with other recreation and youth-work
agencies. Wherever possible, transfer participants and pro-
jects into these outside agencies, thus leaving the maximum
of your personnel and facilities for work in the critical prob-
lem areas.

5. Avoid over-stressing publicity on your program or twist-
ing your activities into mere publicity material. This tend-
ency can become chronic with agencies totally dependent
upon fund-raising for finance and it can seriously hamper
the effectiveness of your program. Over-emphasis on the
membership theme and boasting of tremendous participation
figures should also be avoided.

6. Be professional. Subscribe to all accredited publications
and information sources in the field. Maintain regular con-

tact with the National Recreation Association and be repre-
sented at all professional recreation conferences within geo-
graphic reach of your location. Make use of the wealth of
useful information available and provide other recreation
agencies with up-to-date accounts of what you are doing in

the field.

As a means toward crime prevention among youth, the
recreation method can be a useful device in the hands of a
soundly organized and operated police-recreation unit. Com-
petition with, or overlapping of, public and private recrea-
tion agencies by the police-sponsored unit is wasteful and
unjustifiable. Cooperation with other agencies by the police-
sponsored unit is the key to its ultimate success in meeting
recreation needs and thus helping to prevent crime.

 

So in eighteen sixty-one

Back he went to Washington
Where it ’peared that he was due
To see this country split in two.

“Honest Abe” this time succeeded,
Guess he had what we most needed,
The gumption and the strength to fight,
A firm belief that he was right;

Took a while, this operation,

Takes a while to save a nation.

It’s kind of hard to understand,

Abe was such a tender man,

And some around him used to sneer
The White House needed more veneer;
By gosh, I’m glad, for all our sakes,
That Abe was there, with what it takes?

67

 
 
 

International News

0 The Charles and Fannie Weissman
Playground and Youth Center is the
first recreation facility of this type in
Beer Sheba, Israel. The center, donated
by Mr. and Mrs. Weissman of Wilkes-
Barre, Pennsylvania, will serve the
youth of Beer Sheba as an athletic, cul-
tural, and social center. The very mod-
ern and attractive facilities include a
children’s playground with swings, see-
saws, climbing towers, wading pool,
merry-go-round, and so on; outdoor
basketball, volleyball and handball
courts; youth center with a library and
a handcraft building, and an assembly
hall with vocational guidance rooms,
work rooms, and completely equipped
“Cinema Room” with projector and
films. Two thousand children from
fourteen different lands—many of them
orphanswcelebrated the laying of the
cornerstone for their center with a new
feeling of hope for the future.

0 Iran has just organized a National
Recreation Association under the Min-
ister of Court, His Excellency Hussein

Alla.

o Dolls from countries all over the
world are being shown in Delhi at an
international exhibition organized by
the Children’s Art Exhibition Commit-
tee of the Indian periodical Shankar’s
Weekly. The committee, headed by Dr.
S. Radhakrishman, is holding the exhi-
bition “as a simple and effective way of
making children aware of the culture
and traditions of different countries.”
Dressed in the national costumes of
their countries of origin, the dolls will
be exhibited in many parts of India
before being finally housed in the capi-
tal as a permanent exhibit. (UNESCO)

Conservation Notes

0 With the observation that “people are

prone to criticize their legislators, but
too seldom give them honor for the

good they do,” the National Parks As-
68

     

A REPORTER’S NOTEBOOK

sociation recently presented an award
for distinguished service to Representa-
tive John P. Saylor of Pennsylvania, an
ardent fighter for conservation of the
country’s resources. Representative
Saylor has been particularly active in
the fight to prevent invasion of Dino-
saur National Monument by the pro-
posed Echo Park Dam, a part of the
Upper Colorado River Storage Project.

0 Two other representatives, Leon H.
Gavin of Pennsylvania and Lee Metcalf
of Montana, were also honored for simi-
lar efforts when they received bronze
plaques in the name of five national
conservation organizations: The Izaak
Walton League, National Parks Associ-
ation, National Wildlife Federation,
Wilderness Society, and Wildlife Man-

agement Institute.

NO BETTER WORDS TO DESCRIBE “BROTHERHOOD”

   
   

  

""5171. malice f0 rd a
. "one; W175 c/layzjfy I“ .
1;.%r all .... u": 'éELT,k‘Aj

 
 

Brotherhood Week

Nationwide observance of Brother-
hood Week, sponsored by the National
Conference of Christians and Jews, will
be held February 20-27. The 1955 theme
is “One Nation Under God.”

Special events in more than ten thou-
sand communities throughout the
United States will mark the occasion.
Educational institutions, religious and
civic organizations will participate.

Brotherhood week goals are: (1) Re-

dedication to the ideals of respect for
people and human rights. (2) Demon-
stration of practical ways in which
Americans can promote these ideals.
(3) Enlistment of more people in year-
round activities to promote brother-

hood.

New Siren Warning

Reckless drivers who speed through
recreation areas, school zones, and con-
gested sections can be curbed through
a new electronic siren warning, accord-
ing to the American Public Works As-
sociation. Installations can be made at
the start of low-speed zones so speed-
ing cars and trucks will set off a brief
siren warning letting pedestrians know
a vehicle is approaching at excessive
speed. It also alerts drivers and traffic

oflicers to the fact that the speed limit
has been exceeded.

Leadership for ~Many
When Mildred Scanlon of the Na-

tional Recreation Association leader-
ship training staff visited Oklahoma
City, 466 recreation leaders from sixty-
one youth agencies, churches, hospitals
and schools attended her training
courses. Included in the group were
sixty-nine junior leaders and twenty—
five kindergarten teachers. Seven
churches and three hospitals were repre-
sented at the training course as well as
youth centers, YWCA, Boy and Girl
Scouts, Camp Fire Girls, Salvation
Army and the Junior League. In addi-
tion to representatives from four col-

‘leges and universities and the State De-

partment of Education, twenty-two ele-
mentary and high schools were repre-
sented. Sponsor of the training course
was Alvin R. Eggeling, director of rec-
reation in Oklahoma City.

Ice and Snow Activities

0 Jersey City, New Jersey, anticipated
cold weather by opening a new munici-
pal ice skating rink in Roosevelt Sta-
dium. The rink, eighty-five by one hun-
dred ninety feet, will have one-and-a-
half inches of ice at all times and was
built by the Department of Parks and
Public Property, of which Harold Lo-

gin is recreation superintendent.

0 New York State also prepared for
snowfall, with fifty ski centers in oper-
ation. Nineteen of the state’s centers

RECREATION

will be in daily operation with others
open only weekends and holidays. The
state has also Opened a ski information
center to provide daily bulletins on
snow conditions.

0 In Los Angeles, the first annual adult
ski school was Offered by the recreation
and park department. The five-week
school was conducted at a total of seven-
teen city play centers, with certified
members of the Far West Ski Instruc-
tors Association as “professors.”

Cooperative Publicity

 

The recreation and parks department
in Fayetteville, North Carolina, fre-

quently acts as a coordinating agency
for the community’s civic clubs. Re-
cently it interested the council of civic
clubs in buying four large signs on the
main highways, north and south Of the
city, to publicize the community and
the clubs. The department also works
with the chamber of commerce in ar-
ranging tours through Fayetteville and
nearby Fort Bragg for visitors and tour-
ists.

Medieval Sport Lives On

West Virginia reports a persisting in-
terest in medieval jousting. Many jousts
are held throughout the state yearly,
tOpped by the Mountain State Forest
Festival. In Greenbrier County the
sport is by no means restricted to men.
Recently the ladies have taken tO the
saddle and the young ones are trying
tO spear the rings from their‘bicycles.
In fact the sport is so much an estab-
lished part of county life that proceeds
from the county jousting tournament
are used tO help support the county
youth camp. Sir Walter Scott’s works
found wide acceptance among the south-
ern states and it is from the pages Of
such novels as Ivanhoe and others that
modern riders of the rings molded their
tournament rules and evolved names
such as Sir Knight Of Seneca Trail.

FEBRUARY 1955

In Memoriam

James Young Cameron, J r., director
of the Erie County Youth Program,
Buffalo, New York, died on December
14 at the age Of fifty-three. Mr. Young
had been in recreation work all his life.
Following in the footsteps of his father,
who was a YMCA physical education
director, he started his career at the age
of seventeen with the Buffalo Central
YMCA as an assistant physical director.
During World War II he was sports co-
ordinator for the Buffalo division of the
Curtiss-Wright Corporation, Operating
a sports program for three work shifts.
He joined the Erie County Youth Bur-
eau in 1946 and continued with that
agency until his death.

News of Affiliated Societies

Two more state societies have joined
the many who are now “affiliated for
service” with the National Recreation
Association. The recent additions are
the California Recreation Society and
the Georgia Recreation Society. Other
affiliated societies were listed in the
January issue of RECREATION.

0 Last fall the Alabama Recreation So-
ciety, the Alabama League of Munici-
palities and. the NRA jointly sponsored
three highly successful regional confer-
ences for municipal Officials, recreation
board members, school and civic. lead-
ers. The meetings pointed out the im-
portance of establishing sound commu-
nity recreation programs to include
legislation, financing, personnel, pro-
gram, and public relations.

0 On January 1, the program of the
Board Of Recreation Personnel of the
California Recreation Society for the
voluntary registration of recreation
leaders went into effect. The basic pur-
poses of the plan are to establish mini-
mum standards for leaders in the field,
to clearly identify leaders engaged in
organized recreation as? a career, and to
afford certification as to the qualifica-
tions by training and experience of
those employed in recreation leadership
in the state. Any full-time professional
leader in public or private recreation
in the state is eligible for registration
provided he meets the standards estab-

lished by the Board of Recreation Per-
sonnel.

o A state-wide recreation speakers” bu-

reau has been organized by the New
York State Public Recreation Society to
assist the many state organizations that
wish to learn more about the possibili-
ties of assisting their respective commu-
nities in the organization Of recreation
programs. The bureau consists of rec-
reation executives from all parts of the
state who are well qualified tO speak on
topics relating to recreation. If you
wish further information on this new
organization, write to Yale J. Newman,
Superintendent of Recreation, City

Hall, Long Beach, New York.

0 The Oregon Recreation and Park As-
sociation was formed at a meeting in
Portland, in November, with thirty-five
charter members. A constitution was
adOpted and the following Officers were
elected: president, Bob Bonney, Kla-
math Falls; vice-president, Harry Buck-
ley, Portland; secretary, George Cham-
bers, Albany; treasurer, Wayne Hamil-
ton, Bend. It was decided by those pres-
ent that all engaged in the recreation
field in Oregon would be eligible for
membership. The annual meeting will
be held each year at the League Of Ore-
gon Cities Convention, with one other
meeting to be scheduled during the An-
nual Northwest Recreation Association
Conference.

0 Some Of the 1955 goals of the Ten-

nessee Recreation Society, according
to the president, Francis Bishop of
Chattanooga, will be to double the mem-
bership; to study and work toward at-
tracting industrial, hospital and volun-
teer or youth serving agencies as special
affiliated sections of the Tennessee Rec-
reation Society; and to promote, in co-
Operation with the Tennessee Division
of State Parks and other interested
agencies, special regional work-shops
on recreation.

o In a message to the Wisconsin Recre-
ation Association, Thomas B. Greenwill
of Wauwatosa, president, listed as three
of the projects that should be consid-
ered by the association during 1955:
more effort to get prOper certification;
a survey made of types Of recreation
positions in the state, and plans to set
up requirements for such positions;
and readiness on the part of members to
help out on bills before the legislature
in 1955 that affect recreation.

69

Seam exam: m Emema

Things
Being Done
By Them

0 Recreation for senior citizens———under
many names—continues to develop in
communities across the nation. Minne-
sota has created a twenty-five member
legislative interim commission to study
the problems of the aging on a wide
front, including recreation. The Henne-
pin County Welfare Board, in Minne-
sota, in 1950 appointed a group worker
to help organize a community program
for senior citizens. Under the impetus
of this worker—Jerome Kaplan—inter-
epst, activities and numbers of partici-
pants have sprouted amazingly. sum-
mer camping, programs in nursing
homes and boarding homes, and visits
to individuals confined to their homes
have brought joyous activity to thous-
ands. The Merry Makers, the Best
Agers, and the Live Embers live up
to their names. Eventually Mr. Kaplan
hopes to have enough volunteers to
bring recreation to everyone of the five
hundred recipients of old-age assistance.
One club at a library has a film or
lecture each month, with reading lists
on the subject supplied by the library“
and used. Many of the senior citizens
belong to Minneapolis Public Library
clubs open to all ages, such as the as-
tronomy club, bird club, mineral and
gem club, botanical society. k
Seattle, Washington, is probably typi-
cal of many cities as a recent survey
shows, in that the organization and ad-
ministration of the clubs vary widely.
Some required dues and hired a direc-
tor; many were supported by a church;
some depended entirely upon contribu-
tions from outsiders or patronesses even

70

g;

 

‘5

~

Domenick Santa Barbara, oldest player in Over-60 Symphony of Sirovitch Day
Center, New York, is over 80, used to arrange music for Metropolitan Opera.

for the inevitable and beloved cake and
coffee.

Under the co-sponsorship of the
Council of Social Agencies and the Co-
lumbus Citizen, Columbus, Ohio, staged
a thrilling hobby show, with an eighty-
eight-year-old king and a ninety-year-
old queen. Features were demonstra-
tions of talking books, a drill by the
Grandmothers’ Club, a presentation of
The Room Upstairs (an American
Theatre Wing play illustrating how
two generations can live together) and
a group discussion of “This I Believe.”
Said a seventy-five-year-old resident of
a home, “When I think I do not amount
to much, I say to myself, ‘Cod made
only one of me, so He must have some
special work that only I can do for Him.
So I’ll do my best every day’.”

Miss Margaret E. Mulac, out of wide
experience in gerontology, regards rec-
reation as of the utmost value in mec't-
ing the problems of the aged. She has
had excellent success in promoting ac-
tivities in nine areas: social, physical,
linguistic, constructive, civic, dramatic,
music, rhythmic, and nature. Miss Mu-
lac warns against overuse of television
and radio as likely to crowd out morc
rewarding activities such as handwork,
reading, studying, parties with friends,
making music, and dancing.

In the very thoughtful and compre-
hensive discussion of recreation for the
aging, held at the University of North

Carolina,*

the following suggestions
for activities were given: letter writing
group to write to shut-ins and people in
foreign lands; office work such as
stamping, stapling, packaging; making
and mending costumes and doll clothes;
toy renovation. Other projects included
the sending of greeting cards and a
brand-new dollar to each member on his
birthday; a half-hour of music, singing,
records, individual performance; read-
ing aloud; a book cart, with supplies
also for simple craft projects; exhibit
of handwork; costume party; tin-can
party (each one brings a tin can and
opens it for refreshments) ' short trips;
a ride to the market, or a visit to a
museum; and growing things.

A very active club in Roanoke, Vir-
ginia, The Oldsters, has given teas for
handicapped people, even some on
stretchers, who were brought to the
party by volunteer car drivers. theel-
chair members of the club helped by
doing telephoning. At a Thanksgiving
banquet in 1954, awards were made to
the oldslcr who had attended most meet-
ings, to the octogenarians, and to the

* Proceedings published as Bulletin No. 8 by
the North Carolina Recreation Commission.

RECREATION

outstanding oldster of the year. This
last award went to Mrs. O. A. Palmer,
chairman of the Friendship Committee.
Mrs. Palmer organized a group to make
new Christmas cards out of old ones.
These were sent to shut-ins and hospital
patients. She also collected enough
roses from her friends so that one rose
could be pinned on each oldster attend-
ing a shut-in party.

In Toronto, the Second-Mile Club
maintains a non-residential twelve-room
clubhouse, Open for twelve hours a day,
six days a week, with an average daily
attendance of seventy-five. The club-
house was purchased by the city and
leased to the club at a nominal rental
for twenty-one years. All the traditional
clubhouse facilities are provided, plus a
laundry, electric iron and sewing ma-
chine and a stock of used clothing.
Food for making snacks is sold at cost.
A similar club, the L Club (for fifty),
is operated in a church in New York
two days a week, this one for women
only.

Writing in a pamphlet entitled You
Will Like Working with the Golden Age,
James H. Woods, director of the Cleve-
land Welfare Federation Recreation
Project for Older PeOple, urges leaders
to refrain from certain types of leader-
ship: the mother hen type, the auto-
crat, the bleeding heart, the hit-and-run
type.

In connection with the New Cedar
Apartments Neighborhood in Cleveland
3 new center for older pe0ple is planned,
eventually to accommodate eight hun-
dred to one thousand pe0ple. There are
now two centers in the county with
fifteen hundred members. Clubs, classes,
counseling, hot lunches—all the pro-
visions for the care which experienced
workers regard as important—will be
included.

In Chicago and other cities, writes
Philip Seman, chairman emeritus of the
Chicago Recreation Commission, an or-
ganization known as the Old Guard
offers retired business and professional
men a chance to retain old friendships
and build new ones, to preserve mental
alertness and to maintain a lively inter-
est in community, national, and world
affairs. A similar organization in Eng-
land is known as St. George’s Park Old
Boys, because the group grew out of in-
formal contacts in the park.

FEBRUARY 1955

The Pleasant Hours Club of Dear-

born, Michigan, has been especially for-
tunate in having a number of old
settlers who delight the younger mem-
bers with tales of Indians and pioneers.
Much help has been given this club by
the Women’s Club of Dearborn and the
Soroptomists. Miss Wilma Clizbe, of the
recreation division writes, “We have
never started a new activity which has
had a greater appeal to the general pub-
lic than this program.”

Cooperative effort of the Council of
Social Agencies, the department of rec-
reation, and the University of Michigan
Extension Service has resulted in out-
standing develOpments in Grand Rap-
ids. Museums and libraries offer pro-
grams suitable to the interests of older
pe0ple, such as Special exhibits, hobby
classes, and great books courses. A
committee of 'students has recently
greatly broadened and vitalized the
work.

Rochester, New York, has a seven-
teen-room clubhouse given to the city
by Mrs. Henry G. Danforth. This is the
only club under municipal support.
Nine others are conducted by churches

 
         
          

   

10th ANNIVERSARY GIFT
TO OUR CUSTOMERS

4 During the year 1955 all orders amounting to $10 or more will be 5
shipped transportation prepaid via least expensive way. If any
5 other way is specified, customer shall pay the difference. 5

Write For Your FREE CATALOG
of HANDICRAFT SUPPLIES

Our new 1955 catalog is just off the press. In it are many,
many, items suitable for recreational programs. Among
them are: Art Supplies; Crafts such as: Metal Etching;

Indian Craft; Rick-Rack Craft; Wooden Plates and Trays
for decorating; Numbered Paint Sets and Frames.

CLEVELAND CRAFTS CO.
4705 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland 3, Ohio

and societies. Writes Harry Goodno, di-
rector of the Danforth Center: “Twelve
of our men_ and women are serving our
city and county as airplane spotters at
night, to give the daytime spotters a
chance for more rest.” The club has
entertained over six hundred Golden
Agers from Buffalo, Cortland, Syracuse,
Ithaca, Lockport, Jamestown, and Ni-
agara Falls at Rochester’s famous Lilac
Festival.

In Paterson, New Jersey, a local pa-
per prints a weekly column, addressed
to senior citizens, containing accounts
of successful activities or suggestions
for programs.

Many industrial organizations, nota-
bly the Ford Motor Company, Standard
Oil, and the John B. Stetson Company
of Philadelphia are assuming responsi-
bility for training employees for retire-
ment. After an interview, workers who
will be retired in the next three years
are advised about hobbies and other
plans for retirement. The recreation di-
vision has organized to help in the selec-
tion of hobbies and to give training.
(For photographs of older peoplesa ac-
tivities see pages 72-73.——-—Ed.)

 

REMINDER . . .

dimericaj gineét
alt/zletic Equipment

'5 BUILT BY

FOR CATALOG WRITE: 99‘}
W. .I. Voit Rubber Corp.
2945 East 12th Street
los Angeles 'l'l, Calif.

 

® 
W

New York 'I 'l , Chicago 10, Los Angeles 'I 'I

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 71

7k 6%, 'a 06m 

In recreation groups they are helped to make new
friends, learn new skills, undertake service projects,
become contributing members of their communities;
and, in many instances, they do their own planning.

 

Nice try! At friendly ball game between men ar
women of Golden Age Society, Jamestown, New Yor.
Alice Waters swings, Claude Sundberg catches. Se
“Can Older People Enjoy Sports?” February 195

 

Club members, ages 86 and 87 respectively,
of Arlington, Massachusetts, in a nostalgic
moment at the piano. Music is popular in all
clubs, uncovers and develops hidden talents.

Below: First prize winning portrait exhibited by A.
Edwin Stevenson (right of portrait)” at Columbus,
Ohio, golden-ager hobby show. Exhibitors are given
recognition and an opportunity for financial return.

  
 
  

Above left: At club meeting in Creenvillc,
Pennsylvania, members enjoy square (lane-

ing. Caller is Mildred Scanlon of NBA staff.

72 RECREATION

 
  
   

Pageants depicting scenes from history are staged as
part of recreation program of “family community”
at Home for Aged and Infirm Hebrews of New York.

'."!'- .i‘

a \\<"‘“».. 4‘
.‘v‘l

   
 
 
    
  

cster Danfortll Center members practice for bil-
d competition. Among other activities are danc-
, singing, card games. Some have formed enter-
ent group to visit the hospitals and shut-ins.

  
 

Los Angeles municipal recreation centers provide many

activities for senior citizens. Above, members of the
Some recreation clubs for oldsters have their own “Thimble C1111)” compare work for Playground Show-
dance orchestras. At Danforth Center (below), jolly

bats add to the general fun. These dance parties do-
nate proceeds to the polio, heart, and cancer funds.

Right: Croquet tourney is in progress on lovely
4-acre lot of Rochester clubhouse. Old mansion
has dance hall, game rooms, an equipped kitchen.

FEBRUARY 1955

 

HUTDIHIH SWIMMING PO0LS-I’art 2

Basic Design Features

When a local group has determined the types of activities
the pool should serve, its over-all size, location, and possible
cost, it must decide as to its shape, dimensions, type of con-
struction, decks, overflow troughs, lights, chlorination and
filtration equipment, bathhouse, seating facilities, and many
other features. Major considerations in reaching these de-
cisions are mentioned here, but leaders are urged to study
the many publications dealing with this subject which will
be listed in the bibliography at the end of this series.

i Shape

A large majority of the public pools built before World
War II were rectangular, although pools with curved perime-
ter—Toircular, oval, ovoid or irregular in shape—mrere fairly

common. Recently several modifications of the rectangular

pool have been deve10ped, chief of which are the T, L, and
fan-shaped pools, which have a variety of forms. Two- or
three-unit pools, with each unit designed to serve specific
uses, have been built in a number of cities, especially where
the pool was designed to serve a large population. Opinions
differ as to the merits of the various shaped pools, but an at-
tempt will be made to point out here some of the advantages
and disadvantages of several types. It should be kept in mind
that the relative importance of the various activities to be
conducted in the pool and the estimated participation in
them are factors influencing the selection of the pool shape.
Dimensions of the pool are also a major consideration.

Rectangular. This shape is used for pools varying in size
from the small shallow children’s pool to the large so-called
Olympic type. The individual sections of a multiple-unit
pool are also often rectangular in shape.

Advantages of the rectangular pool are:

1. Ease and comparatively low cost of construction.
2. Ease of supervision.

3. Adaptability to competitive swimming.

4. Readin defined stations for group activity.

5. Susceptibility to good water circulation.

Possible disadvantages are:
1. Relatively small percentage of wadeable area except
in large pools.

2. Possibility of conducting only one competitive activity
at a time.

MR. BUTLER is director of the NRA Research Department.

74

George D. Butler

 

D — T-shaped pool.
E — Fan-shaped pool.
F — Two-unit pool.

A -- Rectangular spoon-shaped-bottom pool.
8 -— Rectangular pool with deep center section.
C -- l-shaped pool.

The relative advantages of the rectangular pool explain
its widespread use. This shape is not well adapted to a
community pool shorter than 75 feet, however, if diving
facilities are provided. Deep water in such pools must ex-
tend for 35 to 40 feet from the deep end, which means that
in a pool 75 feet long approximately one-half of the water
area is too deep for wading. Since at least 75 to 80 per cent
of the persons using most pools stay in water under 5 feet
in depth, only a small number of people can be accommo-
dated in a pool of this length.

Most rectangular pools are built with a spoon-shape bot-
tom, providing shallow water at one end and deep water for
diving at the other. This type is adapted to the needs of
a community that requires a moderate-size pool, and is
widely used for pools designed for highly competitive activi-
ties. In some small neighborhood pools, diving facilities are

RECREATION

 

not provided, and the bottom has a gradual slope from one
end to the other.

A third type is the large rectangular pool with a deep
section for diving which extends across the center of the
pool with shallow water at each end. This design is effective
only for pools 120 feet or more in length; otherwise, the
three sections across the pool are too narrow for satisfactory
use. Advantages claimed for this type of pool are that it
affords three separate areas, thus making it possible to carry
on three activities simultaneously without interference. It
affords a larger percentage of shallow water than a pool of
the same size with a spoon-shape bottom. It also enables the
lifeguards to be stationed where they can easily watch and
enter the water at the points of greatest danger—where the
pool bottom drops off into the diving area. On the other
hand, shallow water borders the deep section on both sides;
whereas, in pools with a spoon-shape bottom, there is only
one such danger line.

Another type of rectangular pool has a diving area mid-
way along one side of the pool and extending part way across
it. This arrangement, in which the diving area is bordered
on three sides by shallow water, makes the problem of super-
vision especially difficult and it is found in relatively few
pools.

Land T Pools. These modifications in the rectangular pool
have come into rather widespread use in recent years. Their
chief characteristic is the addition of a section which is usu-
ally designed for diving and therefore comprises the deep
part of the pool. This section is usually located either at one
end of the rectangular pool and at right angles to it or it
takes the form of a bay projecting from one side of the pool,
usually along the middle.

The diving bay is much smaller in area than the main
portion of the pool.

Advantages of the I. or T pool are:

1. It separates divers from swimmers, thereby reducing
danger of collisions, and restricts them to a small portion of
the pool.

2. It enables the main portion of the pool to be of wade-
able depth, thus serving more people than is usually possible
in a rectangular pool.

3. It provides more flexibility for competitive swimming,
i.e., official distances in meters in one direction and feet in
the other.

4. The layout provides considerable deck Space.

5. It can be used effectively for a wide variety of pool
activities. \

Disadvantages are:

1. The limited deep water area may restrict use of the
pool for such activities as water polo.

2. The diving bay makes the pool more difficult to super-
vise, especially in the T-type pool, say some operators.

3. Wave action across the opening into the diving bay is
reported to create a handicap to swimmers in competitive
events. I

4. The shape does not facilitate circulation of water in
the pool quite as well as in a rectangular pool.

FEBRUARY 1955

 

The dimensions, including depth, affect the degree to
which the advantages of an I. or T pool apply, in the case of
a particular pool. In general, the L- and T-type pools have
proved highly satisfactory.

The Fan-Shape Pool. This modification of the rectangular
pool has come into considerable favor in the last few years,
especially for a pool designed to meet the needs of a neigh-
borhood or small community. The distinctive features of
the fan-shape pool is that the shallow end is widened—in
some cases to double the width at the deep end. The cor-
ners of the shallow end are commonly rounded, but the end
wall is parallel to that at the deep end, as in a rectangular
pool. As a rule the side walls are straight although in some
pools they are parallel along the section used for diving and
flare out only along the portion of the pool with water five
feet or less in depth.

This type of pool has the advantages of the rectangular
pool plus the added factor of a greatly enlarged wadeable
area. A much larger proportion of the pool is suitable for
use by non-swimmers than is possible in a rectangular pool
of equal size; so it accommodates a greater number of bath-
ers. Yet it affords opportunity for diving, competitive swim-
ming, and most other activities. Reports indicate an excep-
tionally high degree of satisfaction with this type pool.

M ultiple-Unit Pools. Several cities have built pools with
two or three distinct units separated by decks, each designed
to serve one or more pool functions. Many two-unit installa-
tions consist of a diving pool and a swimming pool with a
maximum water depth of five feet or less. The chief reason
for building this type of pool is to separate the divers com-
pletely from the persons engaged in other pool activities.
The diving unit is much smaller than the swimming pool.

Another arrangement is for the main pool to have deep
water for diving at one end and relatively shallow water at
the other, like most rectangular pools. The secondary pool
is shallow and is designed primarily for children’s use. The
chief value of this arrangement is that water at the shallow
end of the main pool can be deep enough for competitive
swimming, while the young children and others wishing to
use water less than four feet in depth are accommodated in
the other pool. W

 

Sunbathing is popular at this big two-unit industrial pool.
Separation of turf area from the pool deck is recommended.

75

ADMINISTRATION

The three-unit pool usually consists of a diving unit, a
pool for competitive swimming four to six feet deep, and a
unit for general swimming three to five feet deep. This type
separates people with different aquatic interests and abilities.
It is rarely found except in large cities because the cost of
construction and operation is greater than most cities can
afford or justify. If properly designed, it affords facilities
for a wide variety of pool activities.

The main sections of most multiple-use pools are rectangu-
lar in shape; the diving units are usually rectangular, but
some are semicircular—a shape favored by several pool

operators.

Rounded Pools. Many pools are circular, oval, ovoid, kid-
ney shaped, or of a variety of free forms. Some have shallow
water at the perimeter and deep water near the center; oth-
ers resemble a rectangular pool with curved sides and have
deep water at one end and shallow water at the other. There
is a wide variation in the size, shape, and water depth in this
group of pools.

The chief disadvantages of this group are that, on the
whole, the pools are not suitable for many activities; the
construction cost tends to be high; and supervision is rela-
tively difEcult. Some of these pools, especially the circular
or oval type, have large water areas that are too shallow to
serve a useful purpose. Relatively few such pools are being
built today as compared with a generation ago.

The swimming pool study recently conducted by the Con-
ference for National Cooperation in Aquatics revealed that
very few of the persons reporting on pools with rounded
edges would choose this type if they were to rebuild.

Pool Dimensions

Besides over-all size and shape, the specific dimensions
of a pool—~—its length, width, and depth—are primary con-
siderations in planning. These are influenced by the pool’s
shape and water area but are determined, in part, by the
activities the pool is designed to make possible. Length and
width of many pools are interrelated; depth is largely deter-

mined by the type of activity, regardless of the pool’s size
or shape.

Length. Most pools, except those with curved edges, are
approximately twice as long as they are wide, so the length
is roughly determined by the estimated required water area.
A pool 50 or 60 feet long is usually adequate for children’s
use, but one less than 75 feet long is rarely satisfactory for
community use, especially if it has diving facilities. Other-
wise it will accommodate few bathers. The additional space
gained by increasing the length of a rectangular pool can all
be in water of wadeable depth; hence the longer the pool
the greater the potential number of bathers per square foot
of water area. This relative advantage is not gained by wid-
ening the pool.

Pool activities, such as general swimming, diving, swim-
ming and life saving classes, and informal games, can be
carried on in pools of any reasonable length, but competi-
tive swimming events require specific distances. Even though
swimming meets are to be a minor feature of a pool program,

76

it is desirable to build pools of official length. Pool lengths
suitable for the standard high school and college events in
yards are 75, 100, and 150 feet; for all AAU events 82.5 or
165 feet. The designer therefore has considerable leeway in
determining the length for his pool. If a city is building
several pools, it is recommended that one be designed for
official competitive meets and major aquatic events and that
its length be 165 feet or 50 meters. Pools intended for such.
use should be an inch longer than the oHicial distance and the
inside length be certified by a licensed engineer, so records
made in the pool may be recognized.

 

Fan-shaped pool, Trussville, Alabama, 75 feet long, 30 to
50 feet wide, water depth from 3 to 11 feet. This type
probably best serves the needs of a small community.

Width. Pools, as previously stated, are frequently about
one-half as wide as they are long. Except for children’s
pools, which may be as narrow as 25 feet, a public outdoor
pool should not be less than 30 feet wide and seldom less
than 42 feet. This width provides ample spade for group
instruction in swimming or life saving at the shallow and
deep ends respectively and provides six lanes of seven feet
each. To meet the requirements for official competition a
pool that is to be equipped with two diving boards also needs
to be about 42 feet wide.

In larger rectangular pools the width is frequently 50, 60
or 75 feet. Races can be run across a 75-foot pool; and a
pool 60 feet or more in width at the deep end can be used
for water polo. A greater width than 75 feet is seldom re-
quired and it adds to the problem of supervision. In rec-
tangular pools with the deep section across the center a 60*
foot width permits group instruction along each side of the
pool in the shallow water at the same time and it also en-
ables persons to dive from both sides of the pool without
interference. '

Some L and T pools are 25 yards in one dimension and 25
or 50 meters in the other, thus allowing for various types of
official competition. In such cascs a minimum width of both
the main section and the bay should be 42 feet. Where the
bay serves as a diving unit, the distance from the end to the
junction with the main section should not be less than 40 feet
if a three-meter board is used. The width of the fan-shaped
pool at the shallow end is between one-and-one-half and
twice the width at the deep end, which is usually 30 to 45
feet.

RECREATION

 

Depth. The water depth in various portions of the pool
and the contour of the pool bottom are determined largely by
the functions to be served—the activities for which the pool
is primarily designed. A satisfactory solution can be worked
out most readily in a three-unit pool, but in. most cases a
compromise must be reached between the conflicting re-
quirements for various pool activities.

Pools built for children’s use usually vary in depth from
2 to 31/2 or 4 feet. A few cities are building neighborhood
pools that vary from 21/; or 3 feet at the shallow end to 5
feet at the deep end. This type is suited primarily for densely

    

 ' ‘ H ~ .7  j " n Y K r» I. ' ::- -.-,l
 1‘ I. - Q 3 i”. .  s. 4‘ .
'    V ' é  r t... - grstrm.“  "

Small neighborhood pool in Cleveland, 42 by 75 feet, has
5 feet maximum water depth. Such pools provide bathing op-
portunities for maximum number of people at minimum cost.

populated neighborhoods in cities where facilities for diving
and other activities requiring deep water are provided
at other pools. The shallow pools can be constructed more
cheaply than the standard type of rectangular pool, and the
elimination of diving reduces the possibility of collisions and
accidents.

Most public pools, however, even those built in increasing
numbers for neighborhood use, provide deep water for div-
ing, the depth of which is determined by the height of the
diving facilities. There is a growing tendency for cities to
install three-meter as well as one-meter boards at their pools,
thus requiring deeper water. Opinions differ, but it is
recommended that at least 91/2 feet be provided where one-
meter boards are installed and that 11 feet be provided under
three-meter boards in public pools. Three feet is the depth
most frequently used and widely recommended for the shal-
low end of such pools. Children seven years of age and older
are tall enough to Use 'a pool with water three feet deep,
either for general swimming or for swimming instruction,
but deeper water presents a safety problem for this age
group. A three-foot depth is also satisfactory for neighbor-
hood or local swimming meets, but is the minimum depth
suitable for such competition. Some pools have sections with
water less than three feet deep—in some cases one foot or
less—which are used for wading by very young children.
Majority opinion, however, favors the provision of separate
wading pools to serve the needs of children under seven

rather than reducing the minimum depth in the swimming
pooL

A pool designed to accommodate official meets—either in

FEBRUARY 1955

ADMINISTRATION

a large city or in a community where interest in competitive
aquatics is unusually high—needs deeper water than the
pool designed for general use. The NCAA rules call for a
minimum depth of 31/2 feet; the new AAU rules, for a 4-foot
depth. Since these municipal pools will also be used for
general swimming by the public, a depth of 31/2 feet at the
shallow end is recommended. In the rare cases where a
separate competitive pool is justified, the minimum depth
should be at least 4 feet. The pool designed for oflicial
meets should also have the maximum depth required for div-
ing competition. For example, the AAU rules for spring-
board diving—one and three meters--—call for water at least
11 feet deep in an area 3 feet back of, 24 feet in front of, and
10 feet to each side of a vertical dropped from the front end
of the board. In case a high diving platform is used, the pool

depth should be increased to 15 feet and the deep area in-
creased proportionately.

Slopes. The bottom of the pool should have a continuous
slope, since Hat areas prevent sediment from being washed
to the drain and should be avoided. Wherever the water is
less than 51/2 feet deep, the slope should not exceed 1 foot in
15; there should be no sudden changes in slope within this
area. The slope of the deep area under the diving board can
be much greater. In a pool with a one-meter board only,
water at the deep-end wall may be only 8 feet, increasing in
depth to 91/2 or 10 feet not more than 6 feet away from the
wall. About 15 feet beyond it can slope upwards, preferably
in a curve, to a depth of about 5 feet. Under a three-meter
board the water may be 9 feet deep at the end wall and the
bottom slope to 11 or 12 feet not more than 6 feet from the
wall. This depth should be maintained for about 20 feet
before the pool bottom lepes upwards. The distance from
the deep-end wall to the 5-foot depth should be at least 35
feet where a one-meter board is used and at least 40 feet
where there is a three-meter board.

In the L-shape pool the slope in the main section is
usually toward the end opposite the bay, with a sharp drop
off into the diving bay. In the T-shape pool with the diving
bay opposite the center of one side, the bottom usually has
a gradual slope from both ends toward the section opposite
the bay. ~

It has been the custom in most pools to make the cross-
section practically level, but a recent tendency has been to
slope the floor at the deep end from the sides as well as the
ends. The hopper bottom saves excavation, lessens the water
volume, reduces the height of the side wall at the deep end,
and aids in keeping the pool floor clean.

Decks and Sunning Areas

Provision of inadequate deck space around the pool has
been a common mistake in the design of pools. Experience
has shown that wide decks contribute to the safety, comfort,
and enjoyment of the bather. A narrow deck results in an-
noyance to sunbathers and persons walking along the edge
of the pool. Since a large percentage of the patrons are out
of the water much of the time, especially if there is plenty
of space around the pool, widening of the deck tends to in-
crease the capacity of the pool. If wide enough, the deck can

77

be used for life saving and swimming drills and instruction.
A wide deck enables pageants and other special events re-
quiring large groups and scenery to be produced at the pool.

The width of the pool deck should vary with the size and
type of the pool and in every case it should exceed in area
the water area of the pool. A minimum width of 20 feet
at the ends and of 15 feet at the sides is suggested for the
neighborhood pool; the width should be increased prOpor-
tionately for the larger pools, in many of which the area of
the deck is more than double that of the pool. There is little
danger that the width of the deck will be too great.

Decks require a slope of not less than one-quarter-inch to
the foot, preferably away from the pool, with drains at suit-
able intervals. They should be smooth, easily cleaned and of
a non-slip construction. Satisfactory results, according to
the Portland Cement Association, can be obtained by using
a brush finish, lift finish, or special abrasive aggregates.
Coloring the deck reduces the glare. Water connections at
intervals around the pool are needed so the decks may be
hosed. A raised edge around the pool, preferably six inches
high and one foot wide, tends to prevent dirt from blowing
from the deck into the pool and makes it possible to use
more hose pressure in flushing the deck. The outer edge of
the deck should be bordered completely by fences, walls,
curbs, or other barriers to prevent dirt from being tracked,
thrown, or blown into the pool area.

The wide concrete decks serve as sunning areas at most
pools, but two or three rows of wide concrete steps are often
built along one or more sides of the pool for sunning and for
participants in pool activities. Wide wooden benches for
sunbathers line the decks at some pools. Many large pools
provide extensive turf areas, which have proved exceedingly
p0pular for sunbathing, especially where a good stand of
suitable grass has been developed and is properly main-
tained. Large sand areas for sunning are found at other
pools, although reports indicate them to be less popular than
concrete. Where such unpaved spaces for sunning are pro-
vided, they should be separated from the pool deck by a
fence, and bathers should be required to pass through a
shower and footbath before returning to the pool.

Other Activity Areas

Another means of serving the pool patrons more adequately
while they are not in the water and of attracting more people
to the pool is to provide facilities for games such as shuffle-
board, table tennis, horseshoes, and volley ball. If space
permits they may be located along the outer edge of the pool
deck, but a fenced area adjoining the deck is preferable.

A concession stand has proved a popular feature at many
pools and also provides revenue to help meet operating costs.
Swimming stimulates the appetite, and the availability of
refreshments at the pool adds to the enjoyment and con-
venience of the bathers. The area adjoining the concession
stand or lunch counter should be fenced off and no food
or containers be permitted in the pool area itself. Benches,
tables, and colorful umbrellas may be provided in the re-
freshment areas. '

The value of these supplementary facilities and areas is
repeatedly attested by pool operators. A typical experience

78

 

Los Angeles 60 by 120-f00t rectangular pool has deep water
section across center. Photograph illustrates comparatively
heavy use of shallow end sections and the need for wide decks.

is reported by the superintendent of recreation in a southern
city, as follows: “Originally, our pools were designed for
swimming only and neglected comfort and sociability. Now
the turf area with tables, chairs, beach umbrellas, flowers
and sunshine, after an initial swim, is more p0pular than the
pool area. . . . Concession sales shot up appreciably when
we installed coin drink machines and added tables and
chairs, attractive beach umbrellas, and a sun area outside
of the pool proper. Pool admissions also rose through pro-
vision of this special, comfortable area where bridge could
be played, portable radios enjoyed, and suntans acquired
away from the splashing.”* He stresses the importance of
locating these facilities so that a shower and footbath are
unavoidable before re-entering the pool area.

Parking Area

The parking of automobiles may present only a minor
problem at the small neighborhood pool in cities where such
pools are well distributed in the built-up areas. A large per-
centage of the people using most pools, however, drive to the
pool, especially if it is located in a large park or at some
distance from their homes. Provision of space for parking
is therefore essential, the amount depending primarily upon
the capacity of'the pool. Obviously the closer it is to the
pool the better; but, unless the parking area is to be paved
or otherwise treated, it should not be so close that dust and
dirt are blown from it into the pool area. Prevailing-winds,
therefore, may be a factor in determining its location.

The third article in this series, to appear in our March
issue, will deal extensively with pool equipment, materials,
and facilities. Among the features which will be discussed
will be: seating for spectators; wading pools; the bathhouse,
including dressing rooms, checkrooms, and lobby; site re-
quirements; consideration of construction factors such as
,use of concrete or steel, design of walls and floors, and so on.

 

 

"' “Swimming Pools-v—Athens Style” by Wayne Shields, RECREATION
May 1950.

RECREATION

 

it The Board Member’s Creed 1:2

Adapted for recreation board members with permission, from “T he School
Board M ember’s Creed” of Epsilon Field Chapter, Phi Delta Kappa, Los An-

geles County, California—compiled by school district board members and

university representatives in 1938. (Individual copies are sent to new board

members to help them become acquainted with their new responsibilities.)

1/ As an Individual Member of the Board

I will listen.

I will recognize the integrity of my predecessors and as-
sociates and the merit of their work. I

I will be motivated only by a desire to serve the people of
my community.

I will recognize that it is my responsibility together with
that of my fellow board members to see that the recrea-
tion services are properly run—not to run them myself.

I will work through the administrative employees of the
board—not over or around them.

I will recognize that recreation business may be legally
transacted only in open meeting legally called.

I will not “play politics.”

I will attempt to inform myself on the proper duties and
functions of a recreation board member.

1/ In Performing the Proper Functions of a Board

Member

I will deal in terms of general recreation policies.

I will function, in meeting the legal responsibility that is
mine, as a part of a legislative, policy-forming body, not
as an administrative officer.

I will consider myself a trustee of public recreation and
will attempt to protect and conserve it.

I/ In Maintaining Desirable Relations with Other
hlembers of the Board

I will respect the opinions of others.

I will recognize that authority rests with the board in
legal session—-—not in individual members of the board.

I will make no disparaging remarks in or out of meeting
about other members of the board or their opinions.

I will recognize that to promise in advance of a meeting
how I will vote on any proposition under consideration
is to close my mind and agree not to think through other
facts and points of view which may be presented in the
meeting.

I will make decisions in board meeting only after all sides
of the question have been presented.

I will insist that special committees be appointed to serve
only in an investigating and advisory capacity.

I will consider unethical and will thus void “star chamber”
or “secret” sessions of board members held without pres-
ence of the recreation administration.

FEBRUARY 1955

1/ In Meeting My Responsibility to My Community

I will attempt to appraise fairly both the present and the
future recreation needs of the community.

I will attempt to procure adequate financial support for
recreation.

I will interpret to the department, as best I can, the needs
and attitudes of the community.

I will consider it an important responsibility of the board
to interpret to the community the aims and methods of
the department.

I will insist that business transactions of the department
be on an ethical, open, and above-board basis.

I will not buy supplies for personal use at “recreation
prices.”

I will not consider a position on the board as a “stepping
stone” to political power.

I/ In Working with the Superintendent of Recrea-
tion and His Staff

I will hold the superintendent of recreation responsible for
the administration of the department.

I will give the superintendent of recreation authority com-
mensurate with his responsibility.

I will expect the department to be administered by the best
trained technical and professional people it is possible
to procure.

I will appoint employees only on the recommendation of the
superintendent.

I will participate in board legislation only after consider-
ing the recommendation of the superintendent and only
after he has furnished complete information supporting
his recommendation. _

I will expect the superintendent of the department to keep
the board of recreation adequately informed at all times
through both oral and written reports. '

I will expect to spend more time in board meetings on rec-
reation programs and procedures than on business detail.

I will give the superintendent of recreation friendly counsel
and advice.

I will refer all complaints to the proper administrative of-
ficer or insist that they be presented in writing to the
board as a whole.

I will present any personal criticisms of employees to the
superintendent.

I will provide adequate safeguards around the superintend-
ent and other personnel so they may perform the proper
functions of recreation on a professional basis.

79

 
  

Recreation in Industry Is Growing

The rapid strides that recreation in industry has made in
the past five years are clearly illustrated in the findings of a
study of 230 representative companies conducted by I ndus-

trial Sports and Recreation and reported in its September
1954 issue. A few of the highlights as recorded:

0 A significant increase in company ownership of such
items as athletic fields, club rooms, golf courses and swim-
ming facilities, although many industries continue to make
extensive use of public facilities.

0 Appreciable rise in employee participation in the past
five years, indicating that the recreation program enjoys
increasing acceptance from employees; in'creased participa-
tion by families and the community.

0 More activities than before in the typical company pro-
gram, although popularity of various activities follows about
the same order as five years ago with bowling, softball and
golf heading the list. Other activities, ranged according to
the percentage of companies including them, are basketball,
picnics, dances and 'socials, Christmas parties, horseshoes,
skeet, trap and rifle, and table tennis, all of which are re-
ported by at least fifty per cent of the companies.

0 A considerable increase per employee in the recreation
budget, to an average of more than nine dollars. About two-
thirds of this amount is spent for equipment and services,
the balance for administration, overhead and facility main-
tenance.

o A full-time recreation director in forty-eight per cent of
the companies, as compared with only twenty-eight per cent

in 1949. An average of more than twenty-six persons serve '

as part-time volunteers in various phases of the recreation
program, or a total of 8,700 reported in the study.

Survey of Track and Field Facilities

A report, under the above title, has recently been issued
by the Athletic Institute, 209 South State Street, Chicago
4, Illinois, based upon 177 replies to a questionnaire mailed
to college track coaches in the United States and Canada.
The questionnaire related to track construction, field events
and maintenance. The replies emphasized the fact that dif-
ferent climatic conditions in different sections affect track
construction and maintenance.

In summarizing, the report states that the average track

should have:

MR. BUTLER is director of the NRA Research Department.

80

  REVIEWS AND ABSTRACTS

George D. Butler

1. A radius of approximately 106 feet.

2. Curbs should be made of concrete, 3.3 inches high and
4.3 inches wide.

3. The track should not slope away from the pole.

4. The“ ideal depth of excavation is twenty-one inches,
and into the excavation, in addition to drainage systems,
should go nine inches of rough fill, with the size of the rocks
slightly larger than three inches in diameter.

5. This lower stratum should be rolled with a heavy rol-
ler.

6. Slightly better than fivpjinches of sifted cinders should
then be used, and the top dressing of clay or loam and cin-
ders to the depth of three inches should be applied.

7. The almost unanimous choice for a binder for the top
dressing is clay.

8. The track itself should be six lanes wide on the curve
and backstretch, and eight lanes wide on the straightaway.

The number of coaches reporting materials which they
believe ideal for high jump and pole vault pits are:

Shavings . . . . . . . . . . . . 35 Sawdust and sand. . . . . 20

Sawdust . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28 Shavings and sand. . . . . 15
Sawdust and shavings. . 27 Sawdust or shavings. . . 10

A copy of the report may be obtained without charge by
sending a self-addressed stamped envelope to the Athletic
Institute.

Grants for Research

0 The Rosenberg Foundation has granted the sum of
$24,925 to the California Committee on Planning for Rec-
reation and Park Areas and Facilities for a comprehensive
survey and study of the needs, experience and best practice
in California communities, as related to planning for the
acquisition and development of recreation and park areas
and facilities under public ownership in urban and popu-
lated centers. The project further involves the formulation
of a guide containing principles, criteria and graded stand-
ards for the planning of public recreation areas and facili-
ties. The committee sponsoring the survey is composed of
representatives of nine statewide organizations, three state
agencies and the National Recreation Association.

0 A three-year grant of $60,000 has bcen made by the Na-
tional Institute of Mental Health to Dr. David Riesman and
Dr. Nelson'N. F oote of the University of Chicago for a study
of “the functions of play in developing adulthood.”

RECREATION

ENAMEL-ON-COPPER
IDEA BOOK

  
 
 
 

 
  

Now your classes can easily enioy this fascinating
craft with The Copper Shop's law-cast supplies.
Complete enameling kit with U.L. approved, pyrex
topped, visible tiring unit only $14.95. Contains
everything needed for dramatic demonstrations or
class praiects. FREE Idea-Book gives step-by-step
instructions for professional results . . . lists hun-
dreds of exclusive, imaginative copper items for
your own use or resale. All items ready for firing.
No Metal Working Required. Included are:

BRACELET KITS
PENDANTS
EARRINGS
COMPACTS
CIGARETTE CASES
PILL BOXES ”
ASH TRAYS
TIE BARS
CUFF LINKS
FINDINGS

KILNS TOOLS SUPPLIES

 
 

ATHLETIC BALLS

So sensationally better are they on
every count—design, construction,
quality, durability and play-ability—
that Rawlings HERCULITE
Rubber-Covered Athletic Balls
have established a new high
standard. They’re in a class

by themselves—they're . .

7am:

    
    
    
   
       
    

The Copper Shop is famous for outstanding enameling ideos.
Our new 1955 Ideo-Book lists scores of items never before
offered. Send for your copy today!

     
   
 
 

 
    

 
 
 
  

van" anus ”
BASKETBALLS ‘  74¢
soccrn anus -

raoranus "

  

  
    
   
 

"-

 

‘749 745 "

RAWLIHGS SPORTING GOODS CO. 0 ST. LOUIS 8: LOS ARGELES

Suprior By Every Comparison!

 
   
   
      
 
   
     
      
 
    
 
 

 

  

 

 
  
 

 Elgin-Reiinite Can Help You . .

Whether you are planning a new swimming pool or
remodeling anexisting one, Elgin-Refinite can be of real
help to you. Our experience in every phase of pool plan-
ning, construction and operation is second to none. And
this vast fund of information, together with technical

3 assiStance is readily available through more than 70
conveniently located representatives.

Known the world over as "Swimming Pool Headquar-
ters”, Elgin-Refinite manufactures America’s most com-
plete line of pool equipment..Let us give you detailed facts

and . figures without obligation.
Write for these FREE BOOKLETS

 

ELGIN-REFINITE
| ISWIMMING POOL EQUIPMENT‘

America's Most Complete Line

0 Swimming Pool Filters — Diatamite, Vertical Sand, "Trends in  POOI DESIQI‘I" —  pages 0f the
and Mulitcel latest information on pool design, layout and construction.

0 Recirculating Systems and Chlarinators ' , . '

. Diving Boards and Stands 'Pool Promotion Plan" — How to organize and promore

. Poo. Cleaning» Equipmen, a pool project. Covers benefits, sizing data and pool

0 Underwater Lights Unanculg Plans'

0

A complete Line of Pool Fittings and Accessories

Write for Details

ELGIN-REFINITE, DIVISION OF
ELGIN SOFTENER CORPORATION

128 North Grave Avenue, Elgin, Illinois

 

FEBRUARY 1955

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

Building a New Swimming Pool
 Remodeling Present One?

ill

81

Craft Activity Deve10ps in a Unique Setting

From COURTROOM To CLASSROOM

 

Another floor taken over!

PRESTO, what a change! By day a

place busy with the affairs of the
city and by night one where arts and
crafts are taught and practiced, with the
consent of the city fathers.

This is what happens, and has hap-
pened on Tuesday nights during the
winter months for the past five years, at
the city hall in Kalamazoo, Michigan.
From the basement to the fourth fioor,
in the auditor’s ofiice, the commission
room, the conference room, the city
manager’s ofEce and desk, and even in
the garage and storage room, the city
hall turns into a beehive of craft activity
on one evening of the week—and would
do so many more evenings were it pos-
sible. -

It started originally with a handful
of persons employed in the building
who met in the ofhce of the recreation
department during the lunch hour and
engaged in a few simple crafts; and
this program expanded to the point
where, on opening night last winter,
more than one hundred and forty-five
persons were clamoring to receive in-
struction in the fourteen or more differ-
ent crafts and skills offered.

MISS HELEN Coovaa is the assistant
director of the department of recrea-
tion in Kalamazoo, Michigan.

82

City government will have to move if this continues.

The whole set-up is very flexible and
spontaneous. Prerequisites of any kind
are few. It is understood, however, that
this program is for adults, because chil-
dren have much the same type of ac-
tivity offered in their schools. Men are
not excluded from the group, but they
are conspicuous by their absence. Skill,
ability, or previous training are not re-
quired. There is no registration nor is
it stipulated that a certain number of
classes must be attended. The pleasure
and pride of accomplishment is the end
sought. Each evening the individual
signs up for that particular evening’s
work and pays the nominal sum of
twenty-five cents for the instruction and
later pays for the material used.

The limitations and problems in-
volved are practically all physical. Ma-
terials must be ordered and cannot al-
ways be procured on time or in the right
amounts. Rooms at our disposal must
be accepted as they are in regard to
number, size, and arrangement. Water,
light and similar conveniences which
are essential to work are not always
handy. Kilns for firing must be located
in a spot where the proper heat is avail-
able; they can hold only a certain num-
ber of pieces, and the firing process re»
quires time. Just so many instructors
are available and these can demonstrate

Helen Coover

just so much under prevailing cbndi-
tions.

The real reason for the success of the
project is that the original or basic
meaning of the word “school” has been
emphasized and enlarged upon: The
word in Greek means “leisure” and it
is of leisure that we are thinking. Striv-
ing for the beautiful, and the mastery
of the skills that make the same possi-
ble, is the spirit that prevails.

Among the subjects taught—and even
to call them subjects is rather prosaic
and smacks of routine——the most popu-
lar through the years have been china
painting, textile painting, basketry,
Pennsylvania Dutch design on wood,
plaque and figurine painting, aluminum
trays, COpper tooling, chip carving,
glass etching; religious figurine paint-
ing, copper enameling, leather tooling,
ceramics, Swedish huck designing, oil
painting, stenciling and French pen
painting.

From time to time crafts or skills are
added or dropped as the demand waxes
and wanes or as the seasons come and
go. Fingerpainting, the making of
Christmas tree decorations, Ming trees,
shell work, artificial flowers of chenille
and nylon and liquid plastic, and other
projects that do not take too long, are
some of these.

With students eager to learn, teacher
guidance is applied to seeing that proj-
ects are presented in such a manner that
future growth is assured and interest is
maintained.

The results have been very encourag-
ing and worthwhile. Interest has been
aroused in many crafts. Objects of good
design, beauty and craftsmanship have
been produced; and, in some cases, the
skills learned have been turned into
profitable pursuits. Many hours have
been pleasantly and gainfully spent, and
the art of living and working with other
people has been encouraged. All in all,
we have been well repaid for our efforts.

RECREATION

~ HowTQ Do IT? lb 

 

A QGARETTE OR JEWELRY Box

“'

Ma/én'a/s and 750/5 Needed.

Hack saw,Medium ‘File ,

Sandpaper, Small brush,
Plashc cemenf and +he

following pieces of‘

'é‘inch *hick Plas+lc~
Base~ 6in.x7in.
Ends~ 2m. x 42";in.
Cover~ Aiinx 7m.
Feud-inset pieces
Knobn-g- in. x 5m.

   
   
   
   
   

..
"'
i

To make
I. Cu’r pieces Iisi'ed ~ use 4w000’e/2 jg IS
hack saw ~ fi la and sand needed /o’bena’b05e .

cui’ edqes 4’6 remove saw marks.

2.Bend U shape base.
To do ’f’bx's remo re paper mask/279
and bed/(6 '3: 79 /a$1‘/'c I}? (300 ’1‘)
oven. When 501‘ Mb rabbedp/oce
I}? jig ~ 5/70 8 000’ /ef’ 600/.

  
  

Board placed on +op
1'0 'Fla‘l‘l'en boH’om of base.

   
    
   
  

Plas’ric ’
base held in jig. Base I / \
4.Cemeni’ bur square pieces  p R a.
a’f each corner 0‘? cover. L's-“3'6 Eno’
"\ . 2-"! ~ K.)
' . 5. Cemen+ knob on cover
5?. piece.  a I 75 cemen/=~p/ace
cemenféc.’ n  ’4 p/eces in pay/760 and M7}?
Zidggyzfe  > bras/7 fbw cemen/ a/ong edges-

 

of corrfach‘ng surfacex'

FEBRUARY 1955 a

83

 

Handicapped
Children

A chance conversation with the father of one of the blind
youngsters in Manchester, Connecticut, gave rise to one of
the recreation department’s most gratifying programs. He
expressed the hope that the department could find a time in
its busy swimming-pool schedule so his boy and other blind
children could enjoy recreational swimming.

After talking with him, we decided to experiment with
the promotion of such a program for all types of handi-
capped children because they were not receiving the bene-
fits of our regular programs. It would be difficult, we real-
ized, to arrange a schedule because the youngsters would
need special attention and our indoor pool is almost always
in use. For many years the indoor program, including swim-
ming and life-saving, has been very popular with all age-
groups in our town of 23,500.

We immediately got in touch with the Manchester Asso-
ciation for Help of Retarded Children, and found its mem-
bers enthusiastic about the plan. Next, we secured, from

—-.

JAMES F. HERDIC, JR., is the superintendent of recreation in
Manchester, Connecticut. He is a member of the NRA Na-
tional Advisory Committee on Recruitment Training and
Placement of Recreation Personnel and the New England
District Advisory Committee.

 

84-

James F. Herdic, Jr.


s _
U

  

Instructor takes child from parent at swimming pool door.

the superintendent of schools, a list of all physically handi-
capped children, including the child’s name, age, school,
and nature of handicap.

Letters were sent to parents of these children, inviting
them to attend an organization meeting. At this meeting
we gave them an outline of the program which had been
worked out. The turnout was encouraging; there were par-
ents of children who were afflicted with polio paralysis, cere-
bral palsy, and muscular distrophy, as well as parents of
the blind and mentally retarded children. Each was given
an application blank which contained a section for filling in
a brief history of the handicap. The blank also called for a
statement by the child’s physician as to whether it would be
safe for the youngster to participate, and to explain if there
might be any contra movements which might be injurious
to the child. There have been cases where physiotherapists
have worked hard building up certain body muscles and
swimming instructors have inadvertently undone the good
work. A third section of the blank was a release for the
parent’s signature relieving the recreation department of
any responsibility for injuries the child might incur.

With the applications in, we set out to find volunteers to
accompany the children in the pool and to teach swimming
to those who were able. Everyone we talked to was eager

RECREATION .

Instructor is with a child constantly during swimming period.

to help out, and leaders were easy to enroll. We were equally
fortunate in finding a person well qualified to teach the
leaders how to handle children with the various types of
handicaps. He became a paid worker and is in complete
charge of the program except for the administrative work
which is handled by the recreation department oflice.

Each week a schedule is made out telling the leaders the
child for which they will be responsible and when he is
slated to enter the pool. The leader meets the child at the
dressing-room door and takes over until the period has
ended and he returns the youngster to his parents, who take
charge of the dressing and undressing.

Under the schedule established, children with similar
handicaps swim together and are segregated from other
handicapped youngsters. The pool is fairly small and ex-
perience has proven that five children and leaders are all
we can accommodate conveniently at one time. We make
two other special preparations. The water is lowered six
inches because the children are small and psychologically
it helps if they know they can touch bottom regardless of
whether there is a leader with them or not. We keep the
water at a temperature of about seventy-six degrees because
these children get cold quickly.

 

 

IIostess aids instructor when the child is taken from pool.

The swimming program takes place each Saturday after—
noon, beginning with the blind children from two o’clock
to two forty-five. Next come two classes-of mentally re-
tarded youngsters, from two forty-five to three-thirty and
three-thirty to four-fifteen. There are too many in this group
for one class. The cerebral palsy, muscular distrophy, and
polio groups are combined in a class from four-fifteen to
five o’clock. When more applications are received, we will
divide this group into separate sections according to the
specific disability.

The parents of these children have been very cooperative,
and they allow nothing to interfere with getting the children
to the pool, undressed, and in bathing suits on time.

Some of the parents have volunteered as leaders. We never
give them their own youngsters to care for, but we assign
them another child so that their own youngster can become
accustomed to a stranger and gain confidence in the fact
that they will be as safe with the leader as they would, be
with their own parent.

This recreational swimming gives a tremendous amount
of enjoyment to the handicapped children—a group too
often neglected in a recreation program. It’s a real thrill to
see how much they look forward to their Saturday swim.

PROGRAM

Fellowships for Professional Workers Concerned with Handicapped People

An outstanding opportunity for pro-
fessional workers with the handicapped
—--for specialized training in counseling

and placement of crippled persons in,

self rewarding jobs—has been announc-
ed by the National Society for Crippled
Children and Adults.

Alpha Gamma Delta, international
women’s organization, in cooperation
withthe Society, will grant from fifteen
to twenty fellowships with training to be
given at the Institute of Physical Medi-
cine and Rehabilitation of New York

FEBRUARY 1955

University-Bellevue M e d i c al C e n t e r

from June 20 to July 15, 1955.

The deadline for receipt of applica-
tions for these fellowships is March 15.
Fellowships will cover tuition and a
moderate amount of other expenses.
They will be awarded to qualified coun-
selors, guidance teachers, employment
interviewers, placement personnel, and
others working with the handicapped.

Six points of academic 'credit at the
graduate level will be given to those
who~ successfully complete the program.

Selection of persons to receive the fel-
lowships will be made on the basis of
an evaluation of candidates with the
highest qualifications who are working
for schools, agencies, business or indus-
try or are able to make a contribution
toward effective counseling and place-
ment work for the handicapped.
Application forms and other informa-
tion may be secured from Personnel
and Training Service, National Society

for Crippled Children and Adults, 11
South LaSalle Street, Chicago 3, Illinois.

85

 

The second month of the year brings
visions of red hearts, cherries and
hatchets, log cabins — for it is the
month of traditional parties, dances,
dinners, entertainments. Each of its
holidays has a distinct flavor, which will
help you with your planning. If you
are celebrating any one of these, vis-
ualize your guests or audience and their
tastes, your hall, clubroom or living-
room, and plan accordingly. Advance
planning, making of favors, invitations,
decorations, are all a part of the fun—
and in a community center or club, can
be important in themselves as pre-party
festivities.

Decoration Ideas

V alentine’s Day—This, of course, is al-
ways an affair-of-the-heart. Red hearts,
red candles, red and white crepe paper
abound and, where possible, red roses.
Let some sort of decoration greet guests
as they cross your threshold. Mount red
hearts, in graduated sizes, on lace paper
doilies and hang them on red crepe
paper streamers, on either side of your
door or entrance and windows. Place
largest heart at top of chain with a red
bow above it. A Valentine seal can be
pasted in the center of each heart.’

 

Decorate your refreshment glasses
with small red hearts pasted on the out-
side. Make favors or prizes by pasting
an eight-inch paper doily to back of
heart-shaped cookies.’

Washin gton’s B irthd ay—At parties with
a patriotic theme, it is effective to hang

‘t

*He-re’s An Idea Service.

86

a large flag or to use flags on standards;
be sure in placing them, however, to
show the utmost respect for this emblem
of our country. Use red, white and blue
decorations.

Hatchets made of cardboard and
painted, and bunches of cherries are
also attractive. For your cherries, cran-
berries can be used, or make cherries by
melting a piece of red candle in a pan
over a low flame. When cooled slightly,
mold into 3/8-inch balls with the fingers.
Stick a short length of spool-wire well
into each cherry before it hardens. Cut
leaves from green crepe paper and wind
cherries together in bunches, wrapping
with brown crepe paper for stem, add-
ing leaves as you wind.*

 

Make Washington miniatures for in-
vitations, place cards, tags, scorecards
or menus. Cut three mat-stock circles;
a red one 3 inches in diameter, a blue
one 21/3 inches, a white one 2 inches.
Paste a Washington silhouette, or seal,
in the center of the white circle; then
paste the white on the blue and the blue
on the red. Top with white ribbon bow,
leaving ribbon loop at t0p.* These cir-
cles can also be strung on crepe paper
streamers for hanging decorations.

Lincoln’s Birthday—You can let a
brown crepe paper log cabin be your
symbol here, playing up the woodsman
rail splitter theme; or you may choose
the more patriotic decorations with
flags and a silhouette of Lincoln’s head.

 

If you choose the former, the atmos-
phere of Lincoln’s frontier world will
lend itself to asking the guests to come
dressed in simple cottons or blue jeans;
games can be simple, and hilarious; and
folk and square dancing will go well.

Entertainment

Use your ingenuity to adapt a variety
of games to your theme, being careful
to have each game very different from
the last, and interspersing quiet games
with the more active ones. Never let a
game run until interest wanes, but st0p
while fun is at its height.

VALENTINE’S DAY

Making Valentines—If your party is a
small one, put out materials on a large
table and allow ten or fifteen minutes
for each guest to make a Valentine.
Materials should include as many pairs
of scissors as you can gather together,
paste, needles and thread, colored pa-
pers—.predominantly red, paper lace
doilies, ribbon, flowers from old hats,
and so on, magazines to cut up, crayons,
water colors or poster paints, and
brushes. Each Valentine should be
signed by its creator. Prizes can be
given for the funniest, prettiest, most
original, cleverest, and so on.

A variation of this procedure is to
place the name of each guest on a slip
of paper and drop it into a hat. Mix
and let each one draw the name of the
person for whom he is to make a Val-
entine. Let Valentines be dropped in

RECREATION

Valentine mailbox, to be distributed
later in the evening.

Picture Taking—As each guest enters,
direct him to an attractively decorated
picture-taking booth placed beside the
door. Improvise some sort of camera,
and when each person enters the booth,
have him pose for his picture, which
will be placed on a Valentine and given
to him later in the evening. The pic-
tures can be cut from magazines or
comic papers and pasted on red card-
board hearts with some appr0priate
verse inscribed along with the name of
the person the picture represents. Pass
these out and allow some time for com-
parison of pictures because everyone
will want to see how other guests were
represented.

Dan Cupid’s Heart Circuit—In prepara-
tion for this game, a series of titles
should be chosen covering the incidents
in a developing romance: The Meeting,
The First Quarrel, and so on. The game
consists of a contest, in which each
couple is given a title, a magazine, a
pair of scissors, and a tube of paste, and
is requested to produce a picture to il-
lustrate the title given them. At the end
of the time allowed, the pictures are
collected and pinned on a large sheet or
placard. The guests ‘are requested to
select the best picture, and the couple
who made it may be given a prize.

 

Key to Your H cart—There are as many
hearts out from cardboard or paper as
there are couples. From the center of
each heart, a key is cut. All keys are of
different sizes and shapes. The keys
are given to the boys and the hearts to
the girls. Each boy finds the girl with
the heart to which he has the key and
she becomes his partner.

WASHINGTON’S BIRTHDAY

Crossing the Delaware—The players.

divide into two teams with a space be-

FEBRUARY 1955

tween them called the Delaware River.
Each team has a leader, who gives each
of his players, in alphabetical sequence,
an adverb describing action or emo-
tion, such as anxiously, bashfully, cau-
tiously, and so on. The two teams can
be called companies of soldiers to tie
into the party theme. Company A an-
nounces, “Washington is crossing the
Delaware!” Company B asks, “How?”
Company A replies, “A-wise.” The
soldier who has the adverb beginning
with “A” crosses the space and returns,
acting his descriptive adverb on the
way. If the word is guessed by the op-
posing side before he can get back
home, he is captured by that company.
Company B then sends its “A” man
across; the “B” men of each company
go next, then the “C” men, and so on
through the alphabet. The company
having the most soldiers when all have
crossed the Delaware wins the game.

Cherry N ecklace—Each couple is given
a needle and thread. A large bowl of
cranberries is placed on a table within
easy reach of everyone. The fun lies in
seeing which couple can form the long-
est necklace (by stringing the cranber-
ries) in the time allowed (two minutes).

True to Life, by George—A large sheet
of white paper tacked to the wall, and
a strong light is placed well in front of
it. Each guest, in turn, is posed between
the paper and the light so that the
shadow of his profile will fall on the
paper. George quickly traces the out-
line with crayon, then lets the sitter fin-
ish it by filling in the silhouette. Por-
traits should be numbered and later in
the evening a prize given to the player
who correctly guesses most of them.

LINCOLN’S BIRTHDAY

Song Guessing C cutest—Someone plays
Civil War Songs on the piano and the
guests at the party endeavor to name
the songs, which could include: “Tent-
ing Tonight,” “John Brown’s Body,”
“Darling Nellie Gray,” “Marching
Through Georgia,” “Battle Hymn of

the Republic,” “Dixie,” “Battle Cry of
Freedom.”

Lincoln and Douglas Debate—Have
each group select the tallest and the
shortest person. The tallest is “Lin-
coln” and the shortest, “Douglas.” Each
must put his hands behind him and keep

PROGRAM

a straight face. On “Go,” each starts
talking on any subject he chooses, or
appr0priate topics may be assigned.
The first to laugh, move his hands, or
stop talking even for a moment, loses
the debate. The winner may accept
challenges.

Formal Program—If your party is more
formal, you might like to plan for a
reading of Lincoln’s “Gettysburg Ad-
dress,” or perhaps a series of carefully
planned costume tableaus, spotlighting
various events in Lincoln’s life. Get
your local librarian to help you with
this. Script to be read with the tab-
leaus should be very brief—just one
descriptive line to “set” the episode and
perhaps one verse of a poem about
Lincoln.

Progressive Games

These are adaptable to any one of the
holidays. All games should be made
ready in advance. Diagrams and charts,
or names of games, should be in keeping
with the theme of the day. Set up equip-
ment before the party. Mount playing
instructions for each game conspicu-
ously; display _number of the game.
Provide score cards for each team in
two colors which will indicate manner
of progression.

It is practical to have four or six in-
dividuals play together at a time, com-
peting with each other for the highest
individual score. Number each activity.
In progressing, players having cards of
one color move forward to next game,
the others move back one game, thus
giving each a chance to play with new
people. Individual scores are kept. Al-
low one minute interval between games
so that players may tally scores; allow
only a few minutes for each game.

Games for this type of party can be
adapted from old favorites such as shuf-
fleboard, ring toss, pin the tail on the
donkey, and so on, for example:

Heart Shu§leboard——Two small hearts

can be cut from the ends of an orange
crate and painted red, and an old broom
handle used to shove the hearts across
the floor. The scoring field can be drawn
on the floor with red chalk.

Bean Toss—0n the front of a small bean
toss board paint red hearts and scoring
points; use bean bags covered in red.

87

Helping Senior Citizens ,

to Direct Their Own Activities

 

Senior Leaguers plan their own programs, help each other with hat
remodeling. Important project: sewing for County Hospital patients.

ALLOWING senior citizens to direct
their own club activities is of
definite benefit to them. Living as many
of them do with relatives who manage
the household, grandpa needs to be in
a group where he can help manage af—
fairs and where he is considered capable
of making decisions. As Mr. Martin
said, “My daughter thinks of me as one
of the children. It is a relief to come
here to the club and be treated as an
adult!”

A recreation department should do
more than provide a clubroom, a direc-
tor, and a ready-made program of game
playing. It should also utilize the ex—
perience and abilities of the older
peOple who come to the recreation cen-
ters. If given the opportunity and
stimulating guidance, the senior citizens
do very well indeed with the planning.
It is Mrs. Hoffman, age eighty-two, who

——7 i

 

'— -~ — 7——

MISS WATKINS is director of senior cit-
izens’ activities for the Berkeley Recrea-
tion Department, Berkeley, California.

 

88

manages all the bus trips for the Senior
League of Berkeley. She takes care of
all the reservations, publicity, finances,
and sees to it that everyone has a good
time. In addition she manages her own
home and takes care of Mrs. Ronson,
another member of the league who just
celebrated her ninety-second birthday.

Senior Leaguers have also demon-
strated that older peOple can learn new
skills. There is Mrs. Richards, for ex-
ample, who is a member of the Berkeley
group. She was asked to be president of
the club. “Why, I can’t be president,”
she protested, “I have never presided
over a meeting in my life. I wouldn’t
know even how to begin.” But, with the
encouragement of her friends, she ac-
cepted the nomination and was elected.

Her first meeting was a jumbled af-
fair. Then she attended a series of lec-
tures on parliamentary procedure. Ev-
ery week she presided more skillfully,
every week she acquired more poise and
assurance. One day she confided to the
director, “I can’t tcll you what it has

Jacqueline Watkins

meant to me to stand before a group of
pe0ple and conduct a meeting. I have
wanted to all my life, but I have always
been too scared; but this time, I made
up my mind I would do it anyway.
Everyone here is so friendly and helpful
I felt it wouldn’t matter if I did make
mistakes.” ‘

This creating of a friendly, non-criti-
cal atmosphere is essential if new club
members are to feel comfortable and be
willing to accept new and untried re-
sponsibilities. The director can help the
members generate a feeling of friendli-
ness. She can suggest arrangements of
tables and chairs to create a group feel-
ing. She can adroitly plan for new mem-
bers to serve on committees and con-
tribute their talents on programs. Fur-
thermore, the director, through her sym- '
pathetic interest in individual members,
can stimulate the rest of the group to
concern themselves about other club
members.

For instance, at the Friday meeting
of the Senior League, a cheery hostess,
herself a member, greets all the arrivals
with a friendly smile and handshake. If
they are newcomers she introduces them
around to the others, and they in turn
see that they are included in some con-
versational group. Soon the clubrooni
buzzes with conversation as new and old
fricnds share happenings of the week.

It was during one of these chatty ses-
sions that a maintenance man poked his
nose in the door of the clubroom. He
looked around for a moment and then
he said to one of the women, “Are all of
you people really this friendly or is it
just an act?” “No,” replied the Senior
Leagucr, “we are really glad to see each
other. We feel everyone here is a friend.”

While the members are talking in lit-
tle groups, the KP committee is busy
setting up luncheon tables and brewing
tea and coffee. Everyone takes a turn

RECREATION

serving for a month on the KP commit-
tee; even the men take their turn wash-
ing the cups and saucers. As one man
said, “I don’t do this at home, but here
it is fun. It makes me feel more a part
of the club when I do my share.”

Members bring their own lunches but
there is a good deal of “Won’t you all
try some of my homemade cookies?” or,
Mr. Morrison, an eighty-five year old
who faithfully attends the Friday group
will come in with enough strawberries
from his son’s farm to give some to all
of the fifty leaguers assembled.

After lunch, the club president calls
upon the hostess to introduce the new
visitors and report on ill and absent
ones. Get-well cards and telephone calls
let the sick ones know they are not for-
gotten. News of other senior groups is
given by a member who has fun keep-
ing a scrap book of what oldsters are
doing in other cities. Announcements of
other activities for older pe0ple in Berk-
eley encourage participation in the S10-
Polkas, a folk dancing group; the Wood-
peckers, who meet to wood carve to-

gether; the F orty-Niners Social Danc-
ing Club and the Shuffle-Board Club.

The civic affairs chairman reports on
the current crusade for benches at bus
stops. Mrs. Tompkins gave herself this
title when, during an impassioned plea
for benches at a meeting of the city
council, the mayor of the town suddenly
asked her who she was and who she
represented. “Why, I am chairman of
civic affairs for the Senior League.”
Duly impressed the mayor and council
went on listening to the need for benches

for the older people who had to wearin
wait for buses.

Many Senior Leaguers attend meet-
ings of the city council and write letters
to their councilman when subjects re-
lating to their welfare are under discus-
sion, such as the needed benches or a
new community center. Not only are
they learning how their town is run, but
they feel they are taking an active part
in civic affairs.

This interest in community affairs
gives Senior League members a feeling
that the club is doing worthwhile things,
and they take pride that their organiza-
tion is becoming known in Berkeley as a

group of older people concerned and in-
terested in their community.

FEBRUARY 1955

This feeling of concern also extends
to national affairs. The other day all of
the members, hearing about a threat to
our national park system, chipped in a
nickel apiece to wire the senator from
California, urging his help in preserv-
ing our national parks and monuments.

Interest in the welfare of others keeps
people, especially those living alone,
from becoming too self-centered. There
is satisfaction in doing something for
others in need of help. Our Senior
Leaguers learned that patients in the
county hospital were without dresses to
wear when able to be out of bed. They
rounded up some used clothing and at
Christmastime made nineteen new cot-
ton dresses for one hospital ward. At-
tractively wrapped, the dresses—with
some bed jackets and socks—arrived in
time to make it a happier Christmas for
many otherwise forgotten patients.

The club also sets aside an occasional
day when members help each other with
hat remodeling and clothing alterations.
As one woman said, “I live alone and
I can’t tell how long my skirts should
be. It certainly is a help to have Mrs.
Swanson turn up my hem. In return I
helped her with a new spring hat she
was making.”

Other league members with special
skills and hobbies give demonstrations
in flower arranging, corsage making,
water coloring, and sandwich making.
Once a year a city-wide hobby show for
senior citizens enables all hobbyists to
show off their treasures and talents.
One woman in her eighties does water
colors, but she became so interested by
the textile painting of a fellow hobbyist
that she joined a textile painting class
and added another hobby to her inter-
ests. Said she, “I like to keep learning
new things, it keeps me from getting

old!”

Age in a senior citizen club need no
longer be measured by the number of
birthdays a person has had, but by how
many interests they have. A recreation
program for older pe0ple provides them
with a means of sharing these interests
and acquiring new ones.

For recreation leaders this is an ex—
panding area of opportunity, to help
older men and women to be vital, con-
tributing members of their families and
the community. I

When writing to our advertisers please "mention RECREATION.

 
  
  

It took 4—5 centuries,
but here it is

CHESS. CHECKERS FOR 4, 3 0R 2 PLAYERS!

 
 

'l'o
I
,‘ 1:

Q

“If-
h . it“

{it '

Time was when checkers was a kibitzer’s
delight. Now the kibitzers have a chance to
show what they can do, join in the game,
become a player with two or three others.
Rules are the same, plays are the same, but
it’s faster paced (game takes 5 to 30 min-
utes) more exciting for everyone 8 to 80.

Thanks to Yun Gee, internationally famous

artist and inventor, YOU can now play
CHESS and CHECKERS for 2, 3 or 4
players.

ON THE

CHESS AND CHECKER BOARD

Use of standard rules

made possible ONLY by
TRI-KING’S

Ingenious 9 Diamond 0 Bridge

Cross in One Move—~Either Straight
or Diagonally

 

For Chess, the unique center
detour aligns different sets of
kings and queens correctly.

RULES PLAINLY EXPLAINING INCLUDED
WITH EACH SET

Chess. Checker Board with
plastic checkers in 4 colors .... .. 

Chess. Checker Board with plastic
checkers and chess men in

4 colors ...................................... .. 

Delux edition with Checker. Chess Board.

plastic checkers and weighted
chess men in 4 colors .............. .. 

(Add 5°C for postage west of Mississippi.)

Order this strikingly “beautiful
board in its golden box

NOW

TRI - KING ENTERPRISES, INC.
51 East 10 Street New York 3. N. Y.

PROGRAM

89

 

_ A survey of their ninety-one groups for older people has
been made by the Committee on Recreation for Older Peo-
ple, Education-Recreation Division of the Health and Wel-
fare Council, Inc., 311 South Juniper Street, Philadelphia
7, Pennsylvania, to find the answer to the second question.
The reports show that senior citizens have been doing much
more than having fun. They have been showing much con-
cern for others and have devoted many hours of work to-
ward the well-being of those in need.

The following list may help your own golden-age groups
in adding service projects to their recreation programs:

They helped their own members
Sent Sunshine boxes
Visited them when ill or shut-in
Sent flowers
Organized get-well card showers
Wrote to those mourning a loss in their family
Assisted families of deceased members

They cheered other older people
Three visits to Fair Acres Farm at Lima, Pennsylvania
Two visits to old men’s home in Lansdale
Wrote letters to lonely oldsters in home for the indigent
Made place mats for Christmas at Fair Acres Farm
Made quilts for old folks home

Decorated Easter eggs for aged sick and shut-ins in Bethel
Lutheran Church

They worked for the hospitalized

Made surgical dressings for Chestnut Hill Hospital and
Germantown Hospital

Made swabs for the county tuberculosis clinic at Norris-
town

Made cancer dressings for Philadelphia Cancer Associa-
tion A

Mended for Elm Terrace HOSpital

Knitted squares for afghans for Valley Forge Hospital
and Red Cross

Made scrap books for Valley Forge HOSpital, Lansdale
Hospital, Children’s Heart Hospital and St. Christo-
pher's Hospital

Made three afghans for amputees at Valley Forge Hospital

Packed two large baskets of candy, books, cards, games,
writing materials, and so on, for Valley Forge HOSpital

9O

SERVICE PROJECTS
FOR OLDER PEOPLE

Two basic questions: What is your community
doing for its senior citizens? What are the sen-
ior citizens in your community doing for others?

Hemmed 200 towels, 48 draw sheets, 40 nurses’ caps, 100
packs for Oncologio HOSpital

They cared for little children

Made clothing for a family of eleven children

Made scrap books for children in Philadelphia Hospital
for Contagious Diseases

Made toys for Salvation Army Day Nursery on Third
Street

Made stuffed toys and scrap books for Rivercrest Preven-
torium and Children’s Presbyterian Orphanage

Made soft toys for children’s ward at Chestnut Hill Hospi-
tal

Gave Easter baskets to Odd Fellows’ Orphanage

Worked for Rosa Fels Doll Project in North Carolina

Made baby blankets for overseas

Supervised tot-lot program in summer

Mended toys and dressed dolls for children in settlement
houses

Sewed for Red Feather agencies

They gave money for worthy causes

Twenty dollars to Salvation Army

Fifteen dollars to Osmond Post Welfare Fund (VFW)
Five dollars to Olney Times Cheer Club

Five dollars to Red Cross

Twenty-five dollars to Ethical Society

March of Dimes

Allied Jewish Appeal

Community Chest

They participated in fund-raising events
Made articles to sell at settlement fair
Made articles and helped with church bazaars
Made articles and helped with YWCA bazaar, World Fel-
lowship, and so on
Solicited for Community Chest

They found still other ways to help
Knitted scarves and sweaters for overseas
Crocheted afghans for needlework guild
Made favors for indoor sports Christmas party
Gave Christmas baskets to two needy families
Folded church bulletins, stuffed envelopes
Sewed on buttons for home department of church
Made three quilts, one for Tabor House, two for convales-
cent home in Collingdale

RECREATION

Listening and Viewing

Educational Television Progress

Educational television can look back
on 1954 as a period of growth. During
the year, ETV expanded from two sta-
tions with less than fifty hours of pro-
gramming to eight that telecast nearly
two hundred hours a week. Two more
ETV stations opened during January,
eleven are building, plans are well ad-
vanced for an additional twenty-three
and more than one hundred other com-
munities are working for educational
stations. By the end of 1955 about
36,000,000 Americans will live within
range of educational TV stations, ac-
cording to the National Citizens Com-
mittee for Educational TV.

In Pittsburgh, ETV station WQED
had a busy year. It received grants for
two new program series and extended
its “High School of the Air” courses to
a wide audience which included prison-
ers in the Allegheny County Workhouse
at Blawnox. The Maurice and Laura
Falk Foundation gave WQED $13,050
for a political science series and the

Pittsburgh Rotary Club donated $1,000

for a teen-ager series.

Business Film Survey

The results of a survey on business
films were released recently by the film
committee of the Association of Nation-
al Advertisers. The survey of 157 non-
theatrical films, representing a total in-
vestment of $12,000,000, reveals the fol-
lowing:

1. The typical company spends only 4.6
cents to obtain an average of twenty-six min
utes of a viewer’s time to tell the company’s
story. The cost per viewer can drop to as
low as three mills over the life of a film if a

good film is made for a broad, general-pur-
pose audience.

2. It’s possible to produce successful non-
theatrical films for $25,800—the median cost
in the survey.

3. A film can be expected to reach an audi-
ence of 276,036 in a year although audiences
of up to 4,548,000 have been booked depend-
ing upon the nature of the story and the tar-
get audiences.

For further information write to the
Association of National Advertisers, 285

Madison Avenue, New York 17.
Sioux City Radio Shows

The department of public recreation
in Sioux City, Iowa, believes in far-
reaching public service and public rela-
tions. During 1954 it put on a weekly
public service program, “Recreation
Revue,” through facilities of KCOM,
highlighting its various activities. This
program was broadcast for forty con-
secutive Sundays with one hundred
thirty-eight participants. In addition,
it gave a summer series, “Champtime,”
utilizing youngsters from the play-

FEBRUARY 1955

grounds, music groups, swimming and
tennis classes.

New Astronomic Instrument

A new dimension in astronomical
education arrived recently when New
York City’s Hayden Planetarium in-
stalled a new electronic “sight-and-
sound” console, the only instrument of
its kind in the world. The new control
unit was acquired in order to expand
the sc0pe and precision of the planetar-
ium’s sky presentations, to keep pace
with man’s rapidly growing knowledge
of outer space and with the great de-
veIOpnlents in entertainment techni-
ques.

Films

0 A bibliography of conservation films,
obtainable for rental and purchase from
a large number of private and govern-
mental concerns, is available from Na-
tional Wildlife Federation, Servicing
Division, 232 Carroll Street, Northwest,
Takoma Park, Washington 12, D. C.

o The Cleveland Film Council is now
publishing an official monthly bulletin
entitled News Flickers. Editor is George
Shusta, Jr., of the Cleveland Electric Il-
luminating Company. For free copy
write Virginia Beard, Cleveland Film
Council, 400 Union Commerce Build-
ing, 925 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland 14,
Ohio.

0 The importance of leisure-time ac-
tivities is stressed in Better Use of Lei-
sure Time, produced by Coronet In-
structional Films, 65 E. South Water
Street, Chicago 1.

o The British Information Services is
offering interesting films, among them
Amenu’s Child (33 minutes, 16mm.,
sound). This is a story of how an
African Gold Coast tribe freed itself
from the superstitious inHuence of medi-
cine men and fetish priests and adopted
modern health habits. The film was a
winner in both the Edinburgh and Ven-
ice International Film Festivals.

Also available are: The Road to Can:
terbury (23 minutes, 16mm., color,
sound), depicting the route of the me-
dieval pilgrims over the great Roman
thoroughfare; The Thames—From
Royal Windsor to Tilbury (10 minutes.
16mm., technicolor, sound), with brief
visits to the historic sites along its
banks; and Bannister’s 4-Minute Mile
(6 minutes, 16mm., sound), an excel-
lent aid to track training. Address: 30
Rockefeller Plaza, New York 20, or
local offices in Chicago, Washington,
D. C., San Francisco or Los Angeles.

 

  
  

l .
"if
v u
I
2.5...,.,..., .

w

you are teaching: woodworking, model
building, leather, metal, plastics, ceramics

x-acto knives,
tools & sets

designed by craftsmen and precision-made
for fine craftsmanship

will help you
do u better ioh

by helping your students get better results
and more creative satisfaction.

Explore lndioncraffs—send for Beadcraft
booklet: detailed instructions, full color de-
sign, patterns—25¢.

Complete X-acto 28 page catalog—FREE

No. 62 X-ACTO
DOUBLE KNIFE SET—$2.50

x-acto" -

KNIVES 0 TOOLS
HANDICIAFT KI'IS

  
  

 

X-ACTO, INC.
48-99 Van Dam St.. long Island City 1, II. Y.

  
 

Films-of-the-Month:

“AMERICA
FOR ME"

    
 
 

“A MATTER
OF TIME"

“GOGGLES AND
GAUNTLETS"

I I
“HOW TO

CATCH A COLD"

By Walt Disney
Productions

 
   
       
   
     
     
   
      

  
 

“VIVA
MEXICO"

    

Write for Free List! Dept. R

ASSOCIATION FILMS, INC.
347 Madison Ave, New York, N. Y.

Branch libraries!

 

When writing to our advertisers please-mention RECREATION. 91

l
P E n s o N N E L

 

SUPERVISION—PRINCIPLES AND METHODS

In a new book of the above title by
Margaret Williamson,* the author—an
experienced student of supervision——
has made a unique contribution to lit-
erature on this subject by emphasizing
the growth patterns of individuals, as
well as techniques and methods as chan-
nels for work motivations. This book
belongs in every supervisor’s profes-
sional library. The following few points
-——with condensed explanation —— give
some idea of the value of its contents.

Administration—This is the process by
which the aims of an organization are
determined, and plans made and car-
ried out for achieving them. The ideas,
feelings and experiences of pe0ple are
the materials of the administrative proc-
ess because the organization is peo-
ple. The relationship with and between
people is the real focus of administra-
tion. Administration consists not only
of building organizational machinery.
That the workers feel that they are an
important part of the whole, and not an
isolated segment, helps them to work at
their individual and collective best.

What Supervision Is—It is essentially
a matter of the relationship of people;
it individualizes workers as persons to
be helped in the doing of their respec-
tive jobs. The expression “supervision
of program, or building” may lead
falsely into an overseeing function and
losing sight of the human element. The
art in supervision is primarily the build-
ing of creative human relationships.
Supervision has been broadened from
overseeing to an educational function
and at times to actual teaching.

fob Description—A written ob descrip-
tion is necessary for every worker that
he may know his duties and responsi-

bilities and see clearly the relation of his
work to the total program. Even volun-

* Woman’s Press, 425 Fourth Avenue, New
York 16. Pp. 170. $3.00.

92

teers should be selected carefully and
for specific. jobs. Jobs should exist and
descriptions written up to avoid hit or
miss recruiting and confusion in the
work situation. The volunteer needs
about fhe same amount and type of con-
sideration as the paid worker. Volun-
teers are, people too'. They should be
encouraged and helped to make their
own unique contribution.

Interpretation of Policy—~—This is es-
sential, and operations should keep faith
with policy. Careful statements of per-
sonnel policy enhance the dignity and
significance of jobs and aids recruiting.

How Workers Learn———Workers learn
best by doing, and they learn with their
feelings as well as with their minds.

The Supervisor Learns—~No supervisor
should feel he has finished, has nothing
more to learn. The opportunities for
learning never cease.

Supervision is an art—~an art that
can be developed on higher and higher
levels of expression. Its development
will call for the mastery of certain tech-
niques and the acquiring of an expand-
ing body of knowledge. Just as {there
is no such thing as a finished artist, so
nobody has the last word about super-
vision; the good supervisor is continu-
ously a learner. Classroom study and
related field work practice do not guar-
antee good supervisory practice.

The Secondary Leader—~The supervisor
may assume the role of secondary lead-
er as he assists the group' leader so he
does not work alone. This does not
mean an experienced to an inexperi-
enced relationship but rathcr a partner-
ship of two roles needed to carry out a
joint enterprise. This secondary lead-
ership function is essential in cvery su-
pervisory relationship to be carried on
by the supervisor along with tcaching
and administrative responsibility ac-
cording to thc needs of the situation.

W. C. Sutherland

The primary leader working close to the
situation needs the free and more de-
tached thinking of the secondary leader.
The two persons together provide a
basis for moving forward objectively.
The I nterview—The interview is a joint
quest, not an inquisition or an imposi-
tion. Two persons coming to do busi-
ness together is not all, more important
are the feelings in the experience. Pre-
conceived impressions of each other’s
role may influence the building of the
relationship between them. The inter-
viewer is not a symbol but a real person.
He has the advantage of security in his
position, the organization is back of
him. He knows a lot about the situation
and feels at home. The other person
comes alone, unprotected, and without
eminent relationships and dependable
inside information. The interviewer is
a good listener and knows when and
how much to talk, what questions to ask
and how to direct them. It is up to him
to guide and control the interview and
to terminate it appropriately. No one
set of techniques will apply to every
interview.

Supervisory Visits and Conferences——
The supervisor prepares for his visit for
observation on the job. Things to watch
for are: (1) the kind of relationship the
worker has with the group; (2) 'evi-
dences of cohesion or lack of it; (3)
worker’s interactions and leader’s reac-
tion to behavior of individuals; (4) evi-
dences of democratic procedure; and
(5) quality of program. Visits should
not be hit and run affairs.

Attitudes and Conditions—Not many
things can be standardized in working
with pcople because of their unprcdic-
tability. Relaxation is essential to sclf
expression, pcople must fcel at ease to
get close to each othcr’s thoughts. Be-

MR. SUTHERLAND is the director of the
NRA Recreation 'Personnel Service.

RECREATION

ware of the outworn concept of authority
which underscores the “super” in super-
vision. “Super” is not for power over,
but the right to serve. Keep the vision
in supervision.

The first step in understanding others

is understanding self, and that self-ori-
entation, self-discipline, self-evaluation
are essential to security, serenity and ef-
fectiveness.
Evaluation—The chief function of eval-
uation is to help the worker to do a
better job to the end that programs may
be enriched and the quality of services
improved.

Conditions and principles in evalua-

tion: (I) accept evaluation as a natural
element in the supervisory process; (2)
the job performance should be judged
by and in relation to the job descrip-
tion; (3) the self-respect and confidence
of the worker should be protected; (4)
the supervisor must face up to his con-
tribution to the success or failure of the
worker; (5) if termination is indicated,
the surgical operation should be clean;
(6) evaluation substitutes an orderly
process for casual, hit-or-miss estimates
of workers; and (7) it enables the
worker to get a perspective of his own
progress.
Summary—Supervision is an adventure
in human relationships; its potentiali-
ties are limitless in terms of personal
growth and satisfactions. It can break,
or it can build. The successful super-
visor is “a stable, secure individual free
from the need to impose his drives on
others . . . flexible enough to share re-
Sponsibilities with others, tolerant
enough to accept their foibles, wise
enough to see their strengths.”

RECENT APPOINTMENTS

Joe C. Brookshire, superintendent of
recreation, Alice, Texas; Ralph E. Car-
ter, recreation director, Georgia Lock-
heed Employees R e c r e a ti o n Club,
Smyrna, Georgia; Margaret Collins, as-
sistant superintendent of recreation,
Plainfield, New Jersey; Laurent 1. For-
tier, superintendent of recreation, Wa-
tertown, Massachusetts.

David I. Cessner, supervisor of°play-
grounds and community centers, Recre-
ation Department, Ft. Lauderdale, Flor-
ida; Jack Hans, superintendent of rec-
reation, Galena Park, Texas; Stanley
Kashuba, recreation therapy supervisor,
Massillon State Hospital, Ohio; Kath-

erine McIntyre, executive director, Sum-

mer Camp of Central Branch YWCA,
FEBRUARY 1955

New York City.

Binnion D. Parsons, superintendent
of recreation, Garland, Texas; Beverly
Rodenheber, recreation director, New

Jersey State Reformatory for Women,
Clinton, New Jersey; Edmund W. Shea,

assistant director, Division of Recrea-
tion, Welfare and Planning Council of
Dade County, Miami, Florida; Alfred
P. Strozdas, superintendent of parks
and recreation, Dayton, Ohio.

IT’S A DATE
February 10-12—Fifth Annual Indus-

trial Music Clinic, Purdue University.
Discussions and workshop for music
directors, recreation specialists, per-
sonnel directors and so on. Indus-
trial Music Clinic, c/o Musical Or-
ganizations, Hall of Music, Purdue
University, West Lafayette, Indiana.

February 24—Southern Illinois Folk

Festival, Southern Illinois University.
Demonstration of folk songs, music,
dances, legends, arts and crafts. John
Allen, Area Services, Southern Illi-
nois University, Carbondale, Illinois.

March 6-12—Girl Scout Week. Theme
for 1955: “Believe, Belong, Build.”

March 6-9—Mid-Continent Regional
Park and Recreation Conference,
University of Minnesota Center for
Continuation Study. To cover all
facets of the park and recreation
field. Fred Berger, Director of the
Center for Continuation Study, Uni-
versity of Minnesota, Minneapolis 14.

March 13-19 ~— Kentucky Recreation
Workshop, Kentucky Dam Village,
Kentucky. Featuring crafts, folk
dances, games and folklore, nature
study, sketching, songs and recrea-
tion philosophy. Miss Alda Henning,
Experiment Station, Lexington, Ken-
tucky.

March 13-20—Camp Fire Girls‘irth-
day Week. Theme for 1955: “Let
Freedom Ring!”

March 16-18—Southeast District Rec-

reation Conference, Whitley Hotel,
Montgomery, Alabama.

March 16-19—Middle Atlantic District
Recreation Conference, The Inn,

Buck Hill Falls, Pennsylvania.
March 22-25 —— Great Lakes District

Recreation Conference, P a 11 t1 a n d,

Grand Rapids, Michigan.
March 22-25 —- Midwest District Rec-

reation Conference, Fort Des Moines,
Hotel, Des Moines, Iowa.

March 23-26———Southwest District Rec-
reation Conference, Biltmore Hotel,

Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

__....._..-.. .WW..._._.

llll llllll

TAKES lESS SPACE

; Table Tennis alone takes less precious
'f space. than almost all sports! Even
volleyball requires 150 sq. ft. of
__. floor space per player, to Table
 Tennis' 49. And, no permanent in-
stallation is required. Any well
lighted room serves admirably, and
i‘ in minutes you convert a room to
‘ Table Tennis, because Harvard tables
iare made for quick set-up and
. removal.

 

   
  

Harvard Tablo Tennis
Teacher . . . lilo colo-
pleto gold: lolly illus-
trated try tho nation's
champions for coach-
es. physical education
and recreation lo-
stroctors and players.
Yours tree with tho
coupon hclovr.

 

L4 ‘
 ZZZ" TABLE TElltll

'1. COSTS LESS -8ecouse Table Tennis
 requires less space, allows greater
. student participation and needs a lower
equipment investment .

o . Yes, Table
Tennis costs less!

w, —‘

 SERVES MORE PLAYERS —Coma

 I pare the ten players who use a basketball 

3%,; court for an hour with the forty-eight 7?

’ who can play Table Tennis in the same
space and time . . . yes, Table Tennis

serves more players. 

f _ ~.
:3.

a w:

    

Your supply of

Harvard Tooro-
arocot Charts 
Merely toward
tho coupon hr
Ion today.

Run a tournament as outlined in Harvard’:
Table Tennis Teacher. Score it ‘on a
Harvard Tournament Chart, both Free
with the cou on below .' . . know then how
true it is t at Table Tennis costs less,
serves more players, takes less space . . .
and delivers greater satisfaction than
almost all maior gym sports.
rHorvord Table Tennis Co. lit-2i
60 State 51., Boston 9, Mass.

Gentlemen: I
lease forward FREE copy ol: I I

 

BHarvard Table Tennis Teacher
I [:Han-ard Tournament Charts to

I NAME ............................................ ..

SCHOOL or: I
uncommon .................................. ..

|

l CITY. ZONE. STATE ............................ 

93

I STREET 8. 

 

 

Viewpaque, an attachment for View-
flex slide, or slide and filmstrip project-
ors, is a new visual tool for hobbyists,
photo enthusiasts, collectors, lecturers.
It projects opaque objects of any size
clearly in full-screen size. Stamps, coins,
charts, snapshots, drawings, plans,
newspaper clippings, song cards, and so
on, can be shown to large audiences—
or it can be used for close-up study of
small detail. Viewflex, lnc., 35-01

Queens Boulevard, Long Island City 1,
New York.

 

Fiberglas Acoustical Tile provided
an unusually high degree of sound con-
trol plus an attractive decorative treat-
ment in the new Hotchkiss School swim-
ming pool at Lakeville, Connecticut.

In designing the pool, the architects
sought a new solution to the inherent
problems of high humidity and rever-
beration of sound. Sono-faced acousti-
cal tile—Fiberglas covered with a plas-
tic l'ilm—met their requirements of a
product with a non-painted surface, de-
sirable acoustical and thermal insulat-
ing properties, good light reflectivity
and imperviousness to moisture. Owens-

Corning Fiberglas Corporation, 16 East
56th Street, New York 22, New York.

Wilholtl Glue in a new Dip’n Dab dis-

penser bottle is a boon to hobbyists.
Without removing the lid, the Dip’n
Dab applicator may be pulled out with

94 When writing to these manufacturers please mention RECREATION.

mamma- News

 

a small amount of glue on the tip. The
applicator is brush-shaped to make a
handy spreader and, when returned to
the bottle, it is self-sealing for storage.
Wilhold Glue is an odorless, white
liquid glue which dries colorless and
stainless and is non-inflammable. Wil-

hold Products Co., Chicago 44, Illinois,
or Los Angeles 31, California.

 

Gunver Corner Clamp is a handy
pocket-size clamp which holds mitered,
tenoned or butt corners into a tight
right angle joint for gluing, welding,
dowelling and other fastening opera-
tions. This clamp provides a firm grip
on mouldings and picture framing stock
as well as conventional materials. The
Gunver Manufacturing Company, Hart-
ford Road, Manchester, Connecticut.

 

Dyna-Kiln for enamcling, Model E 4.9,

has such features as a pyrometer for
visual temperature reading, and an in-
put control switch which cnables thc
operator to control the rate of speed of

firing to thc maximum point and makes.

it possible for kiln to quickly recover
temperature lost in opening and closing
the counterweighted door. It is equip-
ped with Dyna-Glow elements and por-
celain element holders which offer im-
proved firing qualities, eliminate elec-
trical shock hazards, facilitate element
replacement and, according to the man-
ufacturer, last longer.

The kiln’s firing chamber is 4 inches
high, 8% inches wide, and 81/; inches
deep. L 81 L Manufacturing Company,
Chester, Pennsylvania.

 

Ping-O-Ball is the new fast-action
game for adults and children which re-
sembles ping-pong, but does not demand
the lavish space and special table need-
ed for that game.

The equipment includes two paddles,
two regulation balls and the Ping-0-
Ball hoop which can be set up on any
kitchen, dining room or bridge table,
or a regulation tennis table. Object of
the game is to place the ball back and
forth through an elongated steel hoop,
rather than over a not. Other rules are
similar to table tennis. Zenith Toy
Corp., 57 Thames Street, Brooklyn 37,
New York.

 

Fratc-Gatc, an elevating end-gate de-
signed for installation on the rear of a
11/3-ton or larger truck and semi-trail-
ers, lifts or lowers loads up to 2,000
pounds. It makes it possible for one
person to handle most loading. Full-
powcr opcration, including power clos-
ing, complete safety controls, and sim-
plified design for easy maintcnancc are
major Frate-Gate features. Write Cus-
tomer Service Departmcnt, St. Paul Hy-
(lraulic Hoist, Wayne, Michigan, for
further details.

RECREATION

Books & Pamphlets

Received

 

AMERICAN'MUSEUM OF NATURAL HIS-
TORY, THE: Eighty-Fifth Annual Re-
port, July 1953 through June 1954.

The American Museum of Natural
History, Central Park West at 79th

Street, New York 24. Pp. 94. Sent
to members of the museum upon re-
quest.

BLUEPRINT FOR DELINQUENCY PREVEN—
TION. New York State Youth Com-

mission, 66 Beaver Street, Albany '7,
New York. Pp. 30. Free.

CHALLENGE TO MEDICAL EDUCATION,
THE, Robert M. Cunningham, Jr.,
Public Affairs Committee, 22 East
38th Street, New York 16. Pp. 28.
$.25.

COMPARATIVE DATA ON FINANCES AND
PERSONNEL OF PUBLIC RECREATION
AGENCIES, 1954-1955. State Recrea-
tion Commission, 721 Capitol Ave-
nue, Room 609, Sacramento 14, Cali-
fornia. Pp. 51. Limited number of
copies available on request.

COUNSELING WITH YOUNG_PEOFLE, C.
Eugene Morris. Association Press,
291 Broadway, New York '7. Pp. 144.
$3.00.*

EDUCATION IN A TRANSITION COMMU-

NITY, Jean D. Grambs. The National
Conference of Christians and Jews,

381 Fourth Avenue, New York 16.
Pp. 124. $.25.

FIELD STUDY OF PLACE, THE: A Prac-
tical Guide, A. J. Wraight. The Uni-
versity Press of Washington, D. C.,
Munsey Building, Washington 4, D.C.
Pp. 98. $2.25.

FIRST AID—WHAT To DO WHILE WAIT-
ING FOR THE DOCTOR. Metropolitan

Life Insurance Company, One Madi-

son Avenue, New York 10. Pp. 33.
Free.

FOOD FOR THE FAMILY. Metropolitan

Life Insurance Company, One Madi-
son Avenue, New York 10. Pp. 16.

Free.

HOBBYCRAFT FOR EVERYBODY, Glenn A.
Wagner. Dodd, Mead 81 Company,
432 Fourth Avenue, New York 16.
Pp. 96. $2.95.

JUNIOR COLLEGES AND SPECIALIZED
SCHOOLS AND COLLEGES: Second Edi-
tion, 1955. Porter Sargent, 11 Bea-
con Street, Boston, Massachusetts.
Pp. 334. Cloth $3.30 ($3.00 cash) ;
paper, $2.20 ($2.00 cash).

FEBRUARY 1955

MAGIC FOR BOYS, G. Sherman Ripley.

Association Press, 291 Broadway,
New York 7. Pp. 183. $3.00.*

MOREr-COLF SECRETS, H. A. Murray.
Emerson Books, Inc., 251 West 19th
Street, New York 11. Pp. 160. $2.50.

PICTURE OF EVEREST, TIIE. E. P. Dut-
ton 81 Company, Inc., 300 Fourth

Avenue, New York 10. Unpaged.
$10.00*

SCHOOL BOARDS—THEIR STATUS, FUNC-
TIONS AND ACTIVITIES, Charles Ever-
and Reeves. Prentice-Hall, Inc., 70

Fifth Avenue, New York 11. Pp. 368.
$13.95*

SICKNESS AT YOUR HOUSE? Metropoli~
tan Life Insurance Company, One

Madison Avenue, New York 10. Pp.
29. Free.

SOCIAL WORK PRACTICE IN COMMUNITY
ORGANIZATION, Helen D. Green.
Whiteside Press, Inc., 425 Fourth

Avenue, New York 16. Pp. 253.
$4.00.*

STARTING THE SECOND HALF CENTURY:
Annual Report for the year ending
September 30, 1954, Gertrude Folks
Zimand. The National Child Labor

Committee, 419 Fourth Avenue, New
York 16. Pp. 18. Free.

TEAMWORK CAN PREVENT DELINQUEN-
CY. New York State Youth Commis-
sion, 66 Beaver Street, Albany 7, New
York. Unpaged. Free.

TREASURES OF THE EARTH, Fred Rein-
feld. Sterling Publishing Company,
215 East 37th Street, New.York 16.
Pp. 156. $2.95.

UNFINISHED TASK OF SOCIAL WELFARE
IN CANADA, THE. (Reprint from Pro-
ceeding of Canadian Conference on
Social Work, 14th Biennial Meeting,
Toronto. June 24-26, 1954), R. E. G.
Davis. The Canadian Welfare Coun-
cil, 245 Cooper Street, Ottawa 4,
Canada. Pp. 16. $.25.

WALT DISNEY’S LIVING DESERT, Jane

Werner and the Staff of the Walt
Disney Studio. Simon and SEEhuster,
Inc., 630 Fifth Avenue, Rockefeller
Center, New York 20. Pp. 124. $2.95.*

 

* These publications are available from the
National Recreation Association at list price
plus fifteen cents for each book ordered to
cover postage and handling. Active Associate
and A filiate Members of the Association re-
ceive a ten per cent discount on list price.
Remittances should accompany orders from in-
dividuals; organizations and recreation de-
partments will be billed on their ofiicial orders.
Address orders to Combined Book Service,

National Recreation Association, 8 West
Eighth Street, New York 11, New York.

WASHINGTON STATUTES RELATING TO
PARKS AND RECREATION, Ernest H.
Campbell and Henry D. Ambers. Bu-
reau of Governmental Research and
Services, University of Washington,

Seattle 5. Pp. 121. $2.00.

WHITE MANE, Albert Lamorisse. E. P.
Dutton 81 Company, Inc., 300 Fourth
Avenue, New York 10. Unpaged.
$2.75.“

Magazine Articles ,'

CAMPING MAGAZINE, November 1954

What is Your Health and Safety IQ?
Eight Steps in Evaluating Camp
Personnel, Richard E. Stultz.

Your Day-by-Day Public Relations
Program, Lou. H. Handler.

Your Camp Feeding Program,
George F auerbach.

JOURNAL OF HEALTH, PHYSICAL EDUCA-

TION AND RECREATION, December
1954

Christmas in the Capital, Edward H.
T hacker.

National Conference on Facilities,
Caswell M. Miles.

A Dual Purpose Stadium, Eugene
Hansen and Ralph Stacker.

School Play and Game Areas, Gene-

. vie Dexter.

Recreation on Wheels, Roland C.

Geist.

PARK MAINTENANCE, November 1954

Soil Paths But No Mud.
December 1954

Education Is Best Cure for Vandal-
ism, W. Drew Chick, I r.

Road Binder From Sulphite Waste of
Pulp Mills, Robert P. Willson.

Prevailing Fee Schedules Charged
By State Parks.

PARKS AND RECREATION,December 1954

Our National Shame, Ira B. Lykes.
The Birds’ Christmas Tree, Katie

Casstevens.
Building and Operating Outdoor Ar—
tificial Ice Rinks, George B. Caskey.
Lengthening the Life of Your Equip-
ment with Proper Maintenance,

Lee M. Hall.

THE GROUP, December 1954‘

Recreation and the Welfare Dollar,
Alan F. Klein.

Kurt Lewin on Adolescence, Gordon
Hearn

Arts and Crafts as a Group Centered
Program, Ruth R. Middleman.

95

._ .u r
7".“ w, .~..
1'.
r .

 

Handbook of Trail Campcraft

John A. Ledlie. Association Press,
291 Broadway, New York 7. Pp. 187.
$4.95.*

This book is the re-

sult of five years’ re-
search and testing of
material, collected and
prepared by sixteen
educators and out-
doorsmen.

Other excellent
books are available on
campcraft, but most
of them are written
for the individual. This one is for the
camp staff and would be excellent for
training purposes. It is planned around
units of experience, beginning with the
simplest, such as a hike and cookout,
and goes through more advanced units
or two-week trips, including an excellent
unit on a canoe trip.

Detailed breakdowns on these units
of eXperience in terms of objectives,
preparations and planning, skills, neces-‘
sary leaders and equipment needed, and
sources of information are valuable aids
to organizing a successful trail camp-
craft program.

The book is fully illustrated with
photographs and drawings, includes
menus, charts, what-to-take lists, as well
as a bibliography of books and films.
Recommended.

 

How to Be a Successful Teen-Ager

Dr. William C. Menninger and others.

Sterling Publishing Company, 215 East-

37th Street, New York 16. Pp. 256.
$2.95.

“The more you really know and
understand about yourself,” Dr. Men-
ninger tells the teen-age reader of this
new book, “the better you can manage
yourself and your life. The more you
understand about people, the better you
car; get along with them and with your-
sel .”

It is good to hear from Dr. Menninger
again. Nationally and internationally
known authority on mental health and
one of the heads of the famous Men-
ninger Clinic in Topeka, Kansas, he is
no stranger to the recreation profession.
He gave a striking address at the Na-

96

PUBLICATIONS

Covering the Leisure-time Field

tional Recreation Congress in Omaha

~ in 1948 which was published in RECREA-

TION and has been distributed ever since
in reprint form. He has just become a
board member of the National Recrea-
tion Association.

The purpose of this book is to con-
tribute to the easing of the strain of
teen years and to show how they may
become years of growth and accomplish-
ment. He and his fellow authors are in
continuous contact with young people,
and know the problems and questions of
youth. Their answers present facts that
you can trust. Illustrated with charm-
ing drawings, the text covers such topics
as: understanding yourself, exploring
your personality, how to solve your
problems, making and keeping friends,
how to live with parents, growing up so-
cially, understanding sex, and others.
A top-notch reference book for today’s

teen-agers, or for their counselorés.
5

Taking Hold of Television

Roger S. Hall. Hermitage House,
Inc., 8 West 13th Street, New York 11.

Pp. 119. $$3.5o.

If you are planning to tell your story
over TV, haping to use this medium for
spot announcements, to present a show
or to conduct a program, this is the
manna] for you. Written to be of prac-
tical use to the small agency or organi-
zation without a professional public
relations staff, it contains suggestions
on all phases of this subject, factors and
situations which any agency can take
advantage of, and pointers based on the
experience of all kinds of agencies who
have been doing this for some time.

Some of the t0pics covered are: what
TV can do for the agency; how agencies
can work together; TV committee; TV
workshop; the TV station and its
people; spots; integrations; using
films on TV; formats, including inter-
views, panels, “variety” skits, news pro-
grams, dramatizations; props and vis-
uals; scripting; and budget.

The author, assistant national direc-
tor of Visual Aids Service, National
Council, Boy Scouts of America, has
recently completed thirteen shows on
scouting, made in Hollywood for na-
tional TV use.

S peed-A-Way

Marjorie S. Larsen. Burgess Publish-
ing Company, 426 South Sixth Street,

Minneapolis 15, Minnesota. Pp. 46.
$1.00.

Speed-A-Way is a new combination
game especially suited for girls of jun-
ior high school level, but it may also be
played by boys and by girls of high
school or college level. It was invented
by Marjorie Larsen, chairman of the
girls’ physical education department at
Edison High School in Stockton, Cali-
fornia. Miss Larsen started out to find
a game that would serve as a leadup
for field hockey, but the game as it now
stands is a combination of soccer, bas-
ketball, speedball, fieldball and hockey.
The rules of these games have served
as a basis for Speed-A-Way.

The game is played by two teams of
eleven players using a soccer ball—on
an area just the size of that used for
field hockey. The skills are not difficult;
there is opportunity for vigorous acti-
vity, also competition and team play;
and best of all, it is greatly enjoyed by
the players. The rules are clearly ex-
plained. The safety angle has been em-
phasized, and several contributing edi-
tors have worked out valuable teaching
hints for practicing techniques of the
game. «

Recreation leaders should find it the
answer to “where can I find a new team
game for girls—one that is active, not
too difficult, and can be played out-of-
doors?”

It is a good game and can be recom-
mended for girls—Helen. M. Dauncey,

Katherine F. Barker Memorial Secre-
tary for Women and Girls, NRA.

 

* See footnote on page 95.

INDEX OF ADVERTISERS

All-Metal Table Tennis Company  54
American Playground Device Company _.---.__ 63
Association Films. lnc ........... __._.. 91
Chemical Equipment Company  55
Chicago Roller Skate Company .... -. _ . . . 53
Cleveland Crafts Company .... __.__.. _. _- 71
The Copper Shop    .- 81
EIgin-Retinite .... -,  --. . _.  ..  8t
Harvard Table Tennis Company .. . 93
The J. E. Porter Corporation-..--. 49
Rawlings Sporting Goods Company .. - 81
S. 8. S. leather Company ............... _. 55
The Seamless Rubber Company.  .- - 57
Square Dance Associates  ,. . 54
Tri-King Enterprises. Inc.  . 89
W. J. Voit Rubber Corporation.  71
X-acto. Inc. .s_--.-s----.i-_-a-- -_ 9t

RECREATION

Recreation Leadership Courses

HELEN M. DAUNCEY
Social Recreation

ANNE LIVINGSTON
Social Recreation

MILDRED SCANLON
Social Recreation

GRACE WALKER
Creative Recreation

FRANK A. STAPLES
Arts and Crafts

Sponsored by the National Recreation Association

and

Local Recreation Agencies

February, March and April, 1955

Greenville, Mississippi
February 7-10

Tempe, Arizona
February 28-March 3

Pasadena, California
March 21-31

Los Angeles County, California

April 11-21

anberton, North Carolina

February 7-10

Grifiin, Georgia
February 14-17

Milstead, Georgia
February 28-Mareh 3

Manchester, Georgia
March 7-10

Cicero, Illinois
March 14-17

Emporia, Kansas
March 21-24

Columbus, Ohio
February 14-17

Pensacola, Florida
February 21-25

St. Petersbnrg, Florida
February 28-Mareh 3

Tampa, Florida
March 7-10

Dade County, Florida
March 14-17

Hollywood, Florida
March 21-24

White Plains, New York
March 28-31

St. Louis, Missouri
February 7-10

Pasadena, California
February 28-Mareh 3

Long Beach, California
March 7-10

Phoenix, Arizona
March 14-17

Sumter, South Carolina

February 7-10

Greensboro, North Carolina

February 14-17

E. M. Ward, Recreation Director

Miss Anne Pittman, Women’s Physical Education Department,
Arizona State College

Edward E. Bignell, Director of Recreation, 1501 East Villa Street

B. P. Gruendykc, Superintendent, Department of Parks and Recrea-
tion, 834 W. Olympic Boulevard, Los Angeles

Miss Virginia Gregory, Recreation Specialist, North Carolina Ree-
reation Commission, Education Building Annex, Room 134, Raleigh

George S. Gentry, Jr., Recreation Director
James F. Snider, Callaway Mills Company

C. V. Blankenship, Callaway Mills Company

Alan B. Domer, Executive Director, Cicero Youth Commission,
5341 W. Cermak Road

James A. Peterson, Superintendent of Recreation, 120 West Fifth
Avenue

Dorothy Jones, Recreation SUpervisor, Department of Public Ree-
reation, City Hall

Dr. Robert L. Fairing, Head of Department of Citizenship Training,
General Extension Division of Florida, University of Florida,
Gainsville

Carl Waite, Commissioner of Recreation, Administration Building

John A. Turner, Recreation Superintendent, Municipal Courts
Building

Edward E. Bignell, Director of Recreation, 1501 East Villa Street

Duane George, Long Beach Recreation Commission, Municipal
Auditorium

Henry T. Swan, Superintendent of Recreation, 2700 North 15th
Avenue

Harry R. Bryan, City Recreation Director

Oka T. llestcr, Director, Parks and Recreation Department

 

Miss Walker will participate in the program of the California State and Pacific Southwest District Conference, February 13-16,
1955, at Santa Cruz, California.

 

Attendance at training courses conducted by National Recreation Association leaders is usually open to all who wish to attend.
For details as to location of the institute, contents of course, registration procedure, and the like, communicate with the sponsor

of the course listed above.

R E c R E A 'r I o N
8 West Eighth Street. New York 11, N. Y.

 

Rerme Posuos Gvaaaxrnno
Entered as second class matter

“lValiente!” cried
the Spanish admiral

He cheered as his
launch fished this man
and seven more water-
logged American sail-
ors out of Santiago

morning of June 4,
1898. This was strain-

 

ing Spanish chivalry

to the breaking point, for Richmond Hobson
(right) and his little suicide crew had spent the
previous night taking a ship into the harbor en-
trance under a hail of cannonade and deliber-
ately sinking her to bottle up the Spanish fleet.

Hobson was actually an engineer, not a line
ofiicer. In Santiago Harbor, he led his first and
only action against the enemy. But his cool-
headed daring made him as much a hero of the
day as Admiral Dewey. And proved again that
America’s most valuable product is Americans.

These Americans— proudly confident of their
nation’s future—are the people who stand be-
hind United States Series E Savings Bonds.
They are the people who, by their spirit and
abilities, make these Bonds one of the world’s
finest investments.

That’s why there’s no better way to protect
your future than by investing in America’s
future! Buy Bonds regularly!

Harbor, Cuba, on the

 

 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  

* it 1'

It’s actually easy to save money—when you
buy United States Series E Savings Bonds
through the automatic Payroll Savings Plan
where you work! You just sign an application
at your pay oHice; after that your saving is
done for you. And the Bonds you receive will
pay you interest at the rate of 3% per year. com-
pounded scmiannually, for as long as 19 years
and 8 months if you wish! Sign up today! 01',
if you’re self-employed. invest in Bonds regu-
larly where you bank. There's no surer place to
put your money, for United States Savings
Bonds are as safe‘ as America!

For your own security—and your country's, too—

invcst in U. 5. Savings Bonds!

The U. 8. 609mm: do“ not pay for this «tantrum-wt. It In ctth by this publication in mtm with
tho Advertising Council and the Magazine Publishers of America.

 

