 

  

HOW TO PLAY TETHERBALL

Player hits the, ball with his bare hand,
attempting to wind the rope around the pole.
Opponent tries to wind the ball in the oppo-
site direction.

Game ends when the ball is completely
wound around the pole in either direction.

Two or four players can participate at one
time, or, using the playoff system, an unlimited
number may play.

VOIT TETHERBALLS
Voit Tetherballs are
safe, durable, water-e
proof and washable...
built for hard 'use with

a strong fabric carcass
and a soft, “stingless”
rubber cover. The
cnunter-sunk rope
l‘lltt‘l‘I helps to prevent
hand bruises.

Write Voit for rules, court layouts and detailed

installation instructions.

America’s Finest Sports Equipment By

45 W. 18th Street
New York 11

 

.

Citing, inexpensive
,small area game!

Here’s a small area game doing
a big job on many playgrounds! Have
you tried it?

An established favorite in the West, tether-
ball is growing in popularity across the
country! It offers the youngsters, playground
supervisors and purchaser what they want.

Tetherball is safe to play, easy to install
and maintain. It requires only a 20' diameter
circle, often an unused portion of the play-
ground area.

Fun for all ages, tetherball seems to draw
its peak attention from the 7 to 12 year old
age group—boys and girls.

For the youngsters, tetherball means fun,
excitement and action!

For the playground director, it means safe
play with minimum supervision.

For the school purchaser, it means inex-
pensive, popular, long-lasting recreational
equipment.

Once you’ve seen the youngsters flock to
play tetherball, you’ll understand Why no
playground is complete without tetherball.

 

   

2945 E. 12th Street
los Angeles 23

211 E. Harrison Street
Dunville, Ill.

 
  

 

      

   
  
  
  
  
   
   

Now your classes can enjoy this
fascinating craft! The Copper
Shop (America's leading source _
of enameiing aupptles) will pro-
vide you at low cost every-
thing needed for dramatic dem-
onstrstlons or Class projects.
FREE Idea Book gives complete
descriptlon of processes and
techniques for excitlng’. creative
resuits—iista hundreds of ready-
to-hre copper items and sup-
plies. Send for your copy today!

THE COPPER SHOP ‘
DIV. OF IMMERMAN G SONS . ‘

1.812 E. 13th St. Oept. 
CLEVELANO 14. OHIO

FREE iii? 2133.? jaw}

The Only Net
GUARANTEED

 

skating

QUANTITY orscoorhs :::;::*::::.:.o., . .0”.
0n Leather Supplies

Jarenas;pressings.“ I for'health and
recreation I

 

 

    
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
    

 
 

25 ROUSING Go
My lWPImagininrrmrs

    

  

Complete sup-
plies leather,
books, tools. 60
locations coast-
tO-coast guar-
antee faster
service at low-
er cost.

 FOLK PARTY FUN
 by DOROTHY GLADYS sercen

25 navel folk parties, outlined
in every detoil: decorations,
costumes, games, music, dan-
cing, foods, etc. "Highly rec—
ommended."-Recreation.

 

A WONDERFUL SPORT
$3.95 at
I bookstores     

 I . 29] Brandy It’s easy to start a roller skating program!
ASSOQATION PRESS New “,1, cm 1 It’s a healthful exercise and the popular
way to build strong bodies. A favorite
with boys and girls and budget planners,
too . . . roller skating makes a grand co-
recreational activity. Handles the largest
groups quickly and easily. Halls, gyms,
or any large floor area make the roller
rinks. Invest in health and fun this season.

.-—-Rubber Tire Skates—u;

  
  
  

Catalog No. 78.

TAHDY LEATHER 00.

P. O. Box 79T-N'I' Ft. Worth, Tex.

FOR USE ON WAXED FLOORS IN
Gyms, Ballrooms or Halls

 

One Of the nation’s outstanding square dance authorities, Ed Durlacher, presents this latest
HONOR YOUR PARTNER album. Album No. 8 contains eight of the country’s most popular
square dances.

    
   

'_—— — ——-——'-“--_
' s
--_—-l_-_—“-—-_—-

Uptown 8. Downtown Standard Waltz Quadrille Ii ' "
Red River Valley My little Girl 
Portland Fancy Nellie Bly 
Bachelor Shack Texas Star .      -—
l HONOR YOUR PARTNER The calls are clear, easy-to-understand and jovial. The .
meme A”); m rhyme mus-c :. bound to 5.. you, a... to rapprng. ggfcggggpigfl; 9063113133“: 53;
Now USED BY OVER   R E  N c E  s o c  E s waxed floors. The rubber wheels

10,000 SCHOOLS. are ideal for use on tile, ballroom

floors or any highly waxed surface.
Will not harm or mark.

_ ---------------------------------------------- -----. Write Now to the leader in Rink
Square Dance Associates P. 0. Box No. 644. Freepbrt, N. Y. Skates on How to Start

I.
I
I
I
: Gentlemen: I want to learn more about the HONOR YOUR PARTNER albums. Please send me I
I a tree descriptive folder. :  I .
I
: NAME_... .. : c -
I ' I
I W I
I I
r l
| I

  

All records are pressed on pure vinylite
and are guaranteed against breakage.

d.

ROLLER SKATE COMPANY r _
ZONL—STATE

c . The Choice of Champions . . . for over 45 Years
anadian Distributors: Thomas Allen, Ltd., 266 King Street West, Toronto 28, Ontario . . .
-.. ..................................................... -- 4490 West lake Street—Chicago 24. lllmors

ADDRESS
CITY

 

SEPTEMBER 1955 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 297

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION

A Service Organization Supported by Voluntary Contributions

JOSEPH PRENDERGAST, Executive Director

   

 

NATIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE
FOR THE
INTERNATIONAL RECREATION SERVICE

For fifty years the National Recreation Association has believed in and worked for the en-
richment of life through recreation. Almost from its founding in 1906 this objective, as well as
the knowledge and techniques gained and results achieved, have been freely shared with other
lands, as they in turn have shared their experience with 11s.

The International Recreation Service of the National Recreation Association, continuing this
traditional spirit and expanding the exchange, has new strength in the creative and devoted serv-
ice of its broadly representative national advisory committee.

The year 1955 has been a significant one for international recreation. The year 1956 has

even greater potentialities for demonstrating how nations can be brought closer together through
recreation.

AUSTIN WELCH—Chairman
Washington, D. C.

THOMAS W. LANTz—Vice-Chairman
Tacoma, Washington

HAROLD D. MEYER, Vice-Chairman
Chapel Hill, North Carolina

T. E. RIVERS—Executive Secretary

298

PAT ABERNETH Y
Arlington, Virginia

H. S. CALLOWHILL
Baltimore, Maryland

LOUIS A. CANARELLI
Newark, New Jersey

CHARLEs B. CRANFORD
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

HOWARD G. DANFORD
Tallahassee, Florida

COLONEL FRANK M. DAVENPORT
APO San Francisco, California

HERB A. DAVIS
Cincinnati, Ohio

D. PAUL DECKER
Norfolk, Virginia

TAM DEERINC
Everett, Washington

MRS. PERMELIA M. DUNN
New Orleans, Louisiana

ALVIN R. ECCELINC
Oklahoma City. Oklahoma

THE REV. LARRY EISENBERC
Nashville, Tennessee

GARRETT G. EPPLEY
Bloomington, Indiana

New York, New York

G. B. FITZGERALD
Minneapolis, Minnesota

ALAN L. HEIL
Montclair, New Jersey

MYRON N. HENDRICK
Niagara Falls, New York

L. B. HOUSTON
Dallas, Texas

RAYMOND E. HOYT
San Francisco, California

HOWARD W. JOHNSTON
Silver Spring, Maryland

RAYMOND S. KIMBELL
San Francisco, California

RAY C. K001
Dearborn, Michigan

DAVID M. LANCKAMMER
Alloona, Pennsylvania

DOROTHEA LENSCH
Portland, Oregon

R. B. MCCLINTOCK
Omaha, Nebraska

RUTII MCINTIRE
Amherst, Massachusetts

WILLIAM A. MOORE
Louisville, Kentucky

SALVATORE PREZIOSO
White Plains, New York

E. H. RECNIER
Urbana, Illinois

MRs. VERNA RENSVOLD
Kansas City, Missouri

J. A. REYNOLDS
Richmond, Virginia

G. OTT ROMNEY
APO San Francisco, California

0. C. ROSE
Chicago, Illinois

J. EARL SCHLUPP
Denver, Colorado

HENRY D. SCH UBERT
Dearborn, Michigan

GEORGE E. SEEDIIOUSE
Cleveland, Ohio

BEVERLY S. SHEFFIELD
Austin, Texas

CLARENCE L. THOMAS
Dayton, Ohio

JAY M. VER LEE
Oakland, California

CHARLIE VETTINER
Louisville, Kentucky

RECREATION

SEPTENHHHi1955

Editor in Chief, JOSEPH PRENDERGAST
Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON
Editorial Assistant, AMELIA HENLY
Business Manager, ALFRED H. WILSON
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Recreation Administration, GEORGE BUTLER
Program Activities, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

Vol. XLVIII Price 50 Cents No. 7

0n the Cover
Dream Lake in Rocky Mt. Park, Colorado. This

state, scene of the 37th National Recreation Congress
in September, delights the visitor with spectacular
and easily accessible high-mountain scenery, lakes
like this at waypoints, magnificent views from the

lofty ranges. For more specific information see pages
310 and 312.

Next Month

Don’t miss Joseph Prendergast’s good article,
What Parks and Open Spaces Mean to the American
People. As United Nations Day and Halloween
mark the month of October, there will be articles on
recreation in other lands: Observations of a Trav-
eler; Around the World with Recreation; and on
Halloween the modern way: How a City Conspiracy
Outwits Goblins; Outline for Halloween. Among
others: Artificial Ice-Skating Rinks, by George But-
ler; Close Cooperation in Planning, by Robert D.
Sisco. The Program Section will include articles on
an all-sports night, the game of Codeball, recreation
in a psychiatric hospital; a boys’ club art fair.

Photo Credits

Page 304, The Dallas Times Herald, 307 (bottom,
extreme right), U. S. Air Force photo; 312-313,
Charles E. Grover, courtesy Denver Convention and
Visitors Bureau; 314, The Seattle Times; 323-325,
Photographic Services, The Pennsylvania State Col-
lege; 338, Paul Parker, New York City; 342, E. F.
Joseph, Oakland, California; 346, Fabian Bachrach.

 

RECREATION is published monthly except July and
AuguSt by the National Recreation Association, a service
organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 8
West Eighth Street. New York 11, New York, is on
tile in public libraries and is indexed in the Readert’
Guide. Subscriptions $4.00 a year. Canadian and for-
eign subscription rate $4.50. Re-entered as second-class
matter April 25, 1950, at the Post OHice in New York,
New York, under ACt of March 3, 1879. Acceptance
for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in
Section 1103, ACt of OCtOber 3, 1917, authorized May
1, 1924. Microfilms of current issues available Uni-

versity Microfilms, 313 N. First Street, Ann Arbor,
Michigan.

Space Representatives: H. Thayer Heaton, 141 East
44th Street, New York 17, New York; Mark Minahan,
168 North Michigan Avenue, Chicago, Illinois; Keith
H. Evans, 3757 Wilshire Boulevard, Los Angeles 5. and

593 Market Street, Suite 304, San Francisco 5.
California.

Copyright, 1955. by the
National Recreation Association, Incorporated

Printed in the U.S.A. :,
“Egg” Is '3 "

6
9'...

‘ Trade mark registered in U. S. Patent Ofiice.

 

SEPTEMBER 1955

MAGAZINE

 
 
    

OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

CONTENTS

GENERAL FEATURES

The Place Of Recreation in Preventing Juvenile

Delinquency (Editorial) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sidney G. Lutzin 300

Congress Forecast . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Thomas E. Rivers 307

Commercial Exhibitors (Directory) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 309

Things to See In and About Denver . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 310

Denver Mountain Parks System . . . . . . . . . . . . .1. Earl Schlupp 312

Recreation Education—An Interpretation . . . Harlan G. Illetcalf 314
Its Present Status and Future Direction

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Charles K. Brightbill 316
World Service Through Recreation . . . . . . . .Thomas E. Rivers 320
ADRIINISTRATION
The School Building of the Future . . . . . . . . . .Richard Neutra 322
A Camp Comes to the Campus . . . . . . . . . . . . .Fred M. Coombs 323
Citizen Participation in School Building

Planning . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .N. L. Engelhardt, Sr. 326
What is the Role of the School in Recreation?

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . [Hilton A. Gabrielsen 328
Community Cooperation in Solving a Neighborhood

Problem . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Felix K. Dhainiu 331
Research Reviews and Abstracts . . . . . . . . . . .George D. Butler 333
Notes for the Administrator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 334
PROGRADI
Techniques for Handling Large Groups. . . .John A. Friedrich 335
Children’s Arts and Crafts Program . . . . . . . . . .Shirley Silbert 338
The Story Of a Charm Class . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Dorothy W. Seel 342
“Children’s Day” at the Fair (Idea of the Month)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Ilfaurine Evans 344
Screen Print on Paper or Cloth (How To Do It)

. . . . . . . ............................FrankA.Staples 337

REGULAR FEATURES

Things You Should Know . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 302
Letters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 304
Editorially Speaking . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 306
Personnel—Recreation As a Profession in the

Southern Region . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .A. E. Weatherford II 319

How TO DO It! . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .A . . . . . . . . . .See Program

Reporters Notebook . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 346

hiarket News . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 348

Hospital Capsules . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Beatrice H. Hill 350

Books and Pamphlets Received, Magazine Articles.° . . . . . . . . . 350

New Publications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 351

Advertisers Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 352

Recreation Leadership Training Courses . . . . . . . .Inside Back Cover

299

The Place of Recreation

in PREVENTING Juvenile Delinquency

An interesting opinion and challenge presented at
the 1955 New York State Annual Recreation Con-
ference in Elmira. What is your attitude on this

subject? RECREATION magazine would be happy to

receive your comments.

THE recreation movement in America

today is going forward at full gal-
lop, representing a growth unprece-
dented by any social program in the

history of our country. Impelled by the-

many forces in our society which have
affected our whole way of life, it brings
encouragement to all of us who have
striven to achieve the results we are
now experiencing. We cling— tightly to
the saddle, apply the spur, and gleefully

ride onward pell-mell.

N ow is the time, however, to face the
many challenges which will be hurled
at us from all directions. One of these
challenges is: “What responsibility does
recreation have in the community pro-
gram for delinquency prevention?”
This is a challenge which we must soon
answer or chance the loss of the broad
community support which is giving us
growth.

The problem of delinquency preven-
tion through recreation leaves us in a di-
lemma which perhaps is common to any
evolving profession. Like the adolescent
seeking to exercise his complete ma-
turity and independence, we attempt to
disassociate ourselves completely from
the very factors which created us. In
growing up we find other more desirable
values and instead of adding these to
values already established we prefer to
disassociate ourselves from them. Un-
fortunately, whether we like it or not,
we cannot forsake our heritage.

SIDNEY G. LUTZIN is the assistant direc-
tor of recreation of the New York State
Youth Commission, Albany, New York.

300

The organized recreation movement
was born in the sand gardens of the
Children’s Mission in Boston. It grew
up with the settlement houses in the
slums of our country’s major cities. It
was nurtured as a welfare service by
the voluntary agencies on funds con-
tributed as charity. It was adopted by
government—local, state, and national
—and brought to its present adolescent
stage by public agencies on the assump-
tion that it makes certain basic desirable
contributions to the community and to
society. It has been supported by funds,
voluntarily contributed or tax-derived,
on the public assumption that one of its
principal values is that of delinquency
prevention. This assumption has been
fostered through the slogans loosely
thrown out during fund raising cam-
paigns of the volunteer agencies—and
by loosely veiled implications at budget
hearings of government. The public, in
its search for a panacea for delinquency
prevention, has effectively been sold on
recreation as the program which pro-
vides this service.

But, in our attempt to establish a
professional niche, we seek to dispel our
identity with those welfare purposesfor
which we were created. We swing full
course with the pendulum and say, “Rec-
reation has positive values. Delinquency
prevention is negative, and recreation
does not have a negative mission.” We
say this, however, in the whispers of

our professional conferences and in the“ -‘

publications which serve only our field:
We do not say this to the public, to the
community, to the government adminis-

  

Editorial.

 

 

OI

Sidney G. Lutzin

trators. Because to do this would be to
throw away the crutch which, until now,
has given us support.

Can we deny that recreation can be an
effective tool in delinqency prevention
if prOperly fitted as a component of a
total pattern of recreation services for
youth?

Is there a program which provides a
more enjoyable media for attracting
youth to it?

Is there one which establishes a more
ideal situation for deveIOping rapport
between leader and child?

Can any other program serve more
effectively to interest youngsters in
activities of a socially desirable nature
which might substitute for those which
are socially undesirable or anti-social?

\Vhere is there a more ideal situation
than that of recreation for observing
a child’s behavior in a social group of
his own choosing?

Is there any other program whose
activities can be so readily exploited for
therapeutic purposes?

Perhaps it is not alone the zeal for
establishing a new professional field
that leads us to cry “negativism.” While -
the community, from lack of knowledge,
has readily grasped at recreation and
delinquency prevention as being prac-
tically synonymous, it may be that the
recreation leader has had sufficient
understanding of the problem to realize
that his training has not been adequate
to deal skillfully with the unadjusted
child. Should he for this reason with-
draw from the problem and say that
only a small percentage of children are
involved, and that the needs of the many
are more important? Or should he
rather say that professional training for
recreation leadership should include

RECREATION

the skills for dealing with the problems
of children as well as the skills for
conducting activities? Would this not
be a more desirable alternative than to
forfeit by default values which are in-
trinsic to recreation?

To pursue only the so-called positive
values of recreation would seem to mean
that We can rest content while children
badly in need of the services we can
render aimlessly wander the streets and
alleys. Or should we feel that it is our
responsibility to reach out for these
young people by designing a program
which will seek them out and attract
them to these services? Is it our pur-
pose to serve only those who come for
the daily, routine diet we offer in our
places of business?

Can we feel that we are fully exer-
cising our responsibilities when we re-
ject the non-conforming youngster and
exclude him from our activities because
he interferes with the enjoyment of the
many? Or do we have a duty to help
him find the security he requires for
better adjustment in the group? Seeing
the misfit in our programs, can we in
good conscience say we are providing
the opportunities and if the child can-
not make the most of it then others
must take care of him? Is it too much
to ask that we help to provide him with

the strength he needs to grow up a de-

cent, self-respecting human being?

How can we feel that recreation is
meeting its full obligation to the com-
munity when we hear that a substantial
proportion of the inmates of correc-
tional institutions have no recreation
skills, but could find their recreation
only through the anti-social activities
which led them into these institutions?
Does this not represent failure on the
part of recreation?

Even though we accept our responsi-
bility for utilizing the fullest measure
of services which recreation itself can
contribute to the community, we must
realize that we cannot do the job on
our own. We require the aid and re-
sources of other community services—-
amon'g them the school, the church,
health and social services—together
with all other forces in the community
which can help in creating a favorable
community environment. The need for
integrating recreation into the total pat-
tern of community life is ever present:

SEPTEMBER 1955

 

[And what' is the responsibility of the
school in this?—-—Ed.]

“These then are the decisions We must
make if we are to give direction to this
movement which is gaining such great
impetus. Where shall we stand on the
issue? Shall recreation serve the com-
munity to the fullest of its potential or
shall we say now that delinquency pre-
vention is not within the realm of a
positive program of recreation; that the
SllppOI‘t it has derived on the promise of
its ability to help in solving social prob-
lems in the community has been mis-
placed?

In a great measure, we are now re-
sponsible for the absence of adequate
community services for the prevention
of delinquency because of our failure
to contradict those citizens who have
urged the establishment and expansion
of recreation as the local solution to the
delinquency problem. The challenge to
our profession now is that we either
deny publicly, as we do in the privacy
of our professional groups, that recre-
ation has a responsibility to provide
delinquency preventive services for the
community, or do the job the commu-
nity expects of us and which I know can
be done. 0

CONGRESS PROCEEDINGS 1955

The new Proceedings will include a
complete record of the Denver Congress
including full reports of demonstration
Order your
copy now. Available mid-November.

Price $2.50.

and workshop sessions.

,,

i‘ - ’
. .

‘ElIATH KEN

l: FOUNDATION

NATIONAL HEADQUARTERS e HINNEAPOLIS. MIR".

 

 

It took 1.5 centuries,
but here it is

CHESS, CHECKERS FOR 4. 3 0R 2 PLAYERS!

Time was when checkers was a kibitzer’s
delight. Now the kibitzers have a chance to
show what they can do, join in the game,
become a player with two or three others.
Rules are the same, plays are the same, but
it’s faster paced (game takes 5 to 30 min-
utes) more exciting for everyone 8 to 80.

Thanks to Yun Gee, internationally famous

artist and inventor, YOU can now play
CHESS and CHECKERS for 2, 3 or 4
players.

Use of standard rules

made possible ONLY by
TRI-KING’S

Ingenious 0 Diamond 0 Bridge

Cross in One Move—Either Straight
or Diagonally

 

For Chess, the unique center
detour aligns different sets of
kings and queens correctly.

RULES PLAINLY EXPLAINING INCLUDED
WITH EACH SET

Chess. Checker Board with
plastic checkers in 4 colors .... .. 

Chess. Checker Board with plastic
checkers and chess men in
4 colors ...................................... .. 

Delux edition with Checker. Chess Board.
plastic checkers and weighted
chess men in 4 colors .............. .. 

(Add 50c tor postage west of Mississippi.)

Order this strikingly beautiful
board in its golden box

NOW

TRI - KING ENTERPRISES, INC.
51 East to Street New York 3, N. Y.

301

 

) AN ADDITIONAL ARTICLE on school-city
recreation services will be published in
the October issue of RECREATION. It is,
“Close Cooperation in Planning,” by
Robert D. Sisco,_ who is the superin-
tendent of recreation in Livingston,
New Jersey—a town of 16,000.

} A STUDY OF “Effective Practices to
Reduce Vandalism” has been undertaken
at Indiana University with the indorse-
ment of the Education Committee of the
American Institute of Park Executives.
It is being conducted by George T.
Wilson, for many years a member of the
Milwaukee Department of Municipal
Recreation and Adult Education. The
results of the study should prove useful
to recreation and park employees.

) NEW NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIA-
TION APPOINTMENTS: John J. Collier,
formerly Great Lakes District Represen-
tative, as Acting District Representative
in the Pacific Southwest District to re-
place Lynn Rodney who is leaving the
Association staff, after ten years of serv-
ice, to become Associate Professor of
Recreation at the University of Oregon;
Clarence E. Brewer, who has been work-
ing on special assignments at the request
of the Armed Services, as Great Lakes
Acting District Representative, replac-
ing Mr. Collier.

) EVERY RECREATION EXECUTIVE AND
LEADER should obtain and keep on hand
the 1955 Safety Education Digest, pub-
lished late last spring by the Center for
Safety Education, New York University,
and made possible through the coopera-
tion of the National Safety Council and
the National Recreation Association.
Copies may be secured from the Center
at: sixty-five cents per copy, fifty cents
for ten or more copies.

) SITE CHOSEN FOR TIIE NEW NATIONAL
HEADQUARTERS of the American Camp-
ing Association is Bradford Woods, the
camp site of Indiana University. Plans
include space for holding national work-
shops and for a national library on
camping.

) SOME FEW COPIES of the National Rec-
reation Association publication, Out-

302

74% @aa SW Km .

 

doors-Indoors, by Reynold E. Carlson—
on nature activities—-—-are now available
from the Association for fifteen cents
per copy, to cover mailing charges.

)RECREATION PROGRAMS IN INDUSTRY
have increased efficiency sharply, ac-
cording to studies made by the National
Industrial Recreation Association and
recently reported in the New York Times.
Last year company and employe outlays
for recreational activities amounted to
approximately $1,000,000,000. These
expenditures have boosted sales of
sporting goods manufacturers, caterers,
florists, transportation carriers, and for
builders of such items as swimming
pools, athletic fields, tennis courts and
rifle ranges.

) THE NEW NRA FILM ON HOSPITAL REC-
REATION, So Much For 50 Little, pro-
duced by Robert Wald of the TV series
“American Inventory,” and the NRA
Hospital Consultant Department, is be-
ing premiered during the convention of
the American Hospital Association, in
Atlantic City, during the week of Sep-
tember 20th. The film runs twenty-
eight minutes, is in color and is about
a woman who finds out the need for rec-
reation in her local community hospital
through the plight of an injured old
man and finds the ways and means of
bringing recreation to that institution.

) RESEARCH HAS BEEN COMPLETED on a
hospital recreation study of the actual
physical and psychological effects of
recreation to the chronic patient. The
research was jointly sponsored by the
NRA and New York University School
of Education, at Bergen Pines Hospital,
Paramus, New Jersey. It will be ready
for publication by October 15th.

)JOSEPH PRENDERGAST, executive di-
rector of the National Recreation Asso-
ciation, is now on the Citizen’s Advisory
Committee for the Governor’s Confer-
ence on Problems of the Aging, by ap-
pointment of Governor Harriman of
New York State. On Mr. Prendergast’s
recommendation, Sidney G. Lutzin,
President, New York State Recreation
Society, William Lederer, President,

Recreation Executives Association of
Westchester County, and Richard Hal-
lahan, President, Long Island Recrea-
tion Association, affiliate members of

the NRA, have been invited by the Gov-

ernor to attend the Conference.

Mr. Prendergast acted as recreation
consultant at the Blue Ridge Institute
for Southern Social Work Executives,
July 24- to 29, in Asheville, North Car-
olina, attended the annual meeting of
the Western Interstate Commission for
Higher Education, Cheyenne,Wyoming,
August 8 and 9 and, as chairman of
the National Advisory Council of “Keep
America Beautiful, Inc.,” addressed the
Annual Convention of the Institute of
Park Executives in Louisville, Ken-
tucky, September 21.

) WASHINGTON STATE RECREATION So-
CIETY is doing something about recruit-
ing for the recreation field. It has just
issued a mimeographed folder, “Your
Career in Recreation,” which tells
about: the profession; what a college
course in this subject can offer; types
of positions; salary range. The folder
also extends an invitation to its recipi-
ents to write to the Society for more
complete information.

}REPRINTS OF THE REVIEW which ap-
pears on page 319, of The Recreation
Profession in the Southern Region, may
be made available if there is sufficient
demand. Some who read Dr. Weather-
ford’s original manuscript have express-
ed interest. It would be helpful to know
promptly if there are others who would
want copies. There Will be a small serv-
ice charge.

University Announcements

}A NEW DEGREE, Master of Science in
Recreation Administration, is offered
at the Graduate School of University of
North Carolina, Chapel Hill. Applica-
tion should be made to the Dean of the
Graduate School. In addition, the fol-
lowing opportunities to prepare for the
professional recreation field are offered
through the Department of Sociology
and Anthropology: An undergraduate
major (A.B.) in Recreation Leadership;
and a Master of Arts degree in Recrea-
tion Leadership. A limited number of
courses are offered through Correspond-
ence Instruction.

}A 31250 RESEARCH ASSISTANTSIIIP for
1955-56 school year is announced by the
University of Wisconsin Curriculum
for Community Leadership in Recrea-
tion. This is available to a graduate
student who wishes to work on studies
of local government expenditures for
recreation in Wisconsin. Applicants
should write the Coordinator of the Rec-
reation Curriculum, Education Build-

'ing, University of Wisconsin, Madison.

RECREATION

WE WANT THESE

BALLS TO BE IDENTIFIED
AFT ER YEARS

OF HARD PIAY

 
 
  

/
/

 PERMANENTLY IDENTIFIED

//

1’"
/

 

SEAMLESS KOLITE ATHLETIC BALLS

And that's not all—These eye-catching Kolite Athletic Balls feature
newly designed covers. All identification is permanently.molded into
these covers. The basketballs and footballs have a new sure—grip finish.
The usual round pebbling has been “plateaued,” the grooves are wider
and deeper. The result is improved finger friction, more surface grip
and better ball control.

Inner Construction Features—All Kolite balls include the 3—point inner
construction that means long and true wear: Specially Processed Nylon
Winding, Butyl Bladder, Kantleek Valve; With exclusive Seamless
Kolite Cover.

Out front in‘ value and performance,~ Seamless Kolite Athletic Balls
are better than ever. Order today—see for yourself.

NOTE: the Seamless 580 Basketball will also be made with the regular
groove. For the wider, deeper groove specify “580 Broad Groove.”

 

FINEST QUALITY SINCE 1877 .

ATHLETIC GOODS DIVISION THE SEAMLESS RUBBER COMPANY
NEW HAVEN 3, CONN., U.$.A.

 

SEPTEMBER 1955 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 303

 

a a a o on

n o u o u.

n
........... to

In...
a a a o _-

  

Readers! You are invited to send letters for this page

to Editor, RECREATION, 8 West Eighth Street, New
York II—so that your ideas, opinions and attitudes
may be exchanged with others on the wide range of
subjects of concern to us all. Here is your chance to
agree or disagree with the authors of our articles.

Success in Denver

Sirs:

I know that you will rejoice with
those of us in Denver over the great
gains in recreation in the State of Colo-
rado and city of Denver this year. First,
the Colorado General Assembly passed
and created a State Parks and Recrea-
tion Board, with an appropriation to do
a survey study, effective July 1, 1955.
Prior to this date Colorado did have a
state parks authority but no active use
of the existing law.

On May 17, 1955, the citizens of
Denver voted for a charter amendment,
terminating the present Department of
Improvements and Parks and creating
a Department of Parks and Recreation
and a Department of Public Works. The
Department of Parks and Recreation
will be headed by a manager to be ap-
pointed by the mayor. The department
will be composed of (but not limited
to) a division of parks and a division of
recreation. The manager will serve on
the mayor’s cabinet with equal status
with the present charter departments of
safety and excise, health and hospitals,
welfare, revenue, and public works.

At the May 17 election, a $2,000,000
bond pr0posal for parks and recreation
improvements and facilities passed suc-
cessfully. This bond proposal will pro-
vide for replacement of water systems
in existing parks, new parks and recre-
ation areas to be developed, and pro-
vides $1,000,000 for recreation im-
provements.

I thought that, inasmuch as the Con-
gress is coming to Denver in September,
such progress should not escape atten-
tion of those recreation executives who
are probably battling for the same state
and city issues which have been so suc-
cessfully passed in Colorado.

J. EARL SCHLUPP, Director of Rec-
reation, Denver, Colorado.

Front Page Story

Sirs:

On April 7, 1955 there appeared on
the front page of The Dallas Times

304

—The Editors.

Herald a picture and story regarding a
marbles tournament. The article im-
pressed us so much that we are forward-
ing it to you in its entirety, along with
a print of the picture. [Shown here.]
Don’t you consider it really signifi-

 

cant that on a front page which carries
stories of two murders, a big tax bill
under consideration by the legislature,
and a mass protest in the form of a
march by a hundred mothers on a local
school board, that this story about such
a simple activity should take the head-
line? The picture and the story impress-
ed us with the following ideas: (1) Rec-
reation is for old and young alike (the
“mature” man and the twelve-year-old
boy). (2) Recreation may be found in
such simple age-old activities requiring
limited eXpense, facilities, and prepara-
tion. (3) Recreation knows no “na-
tionality” (the little boy, Jesse Hernan-
dez, is one of several thousand persons
of Latin-American descent in Dallas).

We forward this material to you with
the thought that others might sense the
satisfaction that we find in knowing
that at least one major newspaper gives
attention to a story of this kind by plac-
ing it ahead of the more sensational
subjects which were given less conspicu-
ous places on the front page.

L. B. HOUSTON, Director, Parks and
Recreation, Dallas, Texas.

Recreation and Adult Education

Sirs:
Mr. Knowles is to be congratulated on

his very fine article. It is the most
thorough analysis of the relationships
existing between recreation and adult
education that has yet been made. It is
also a very fine contribution to the phi-
losophy of recreation; and this is par-
ticularly interesting to me since it paral-
lels my own.

One follows with unabating interest
Mr. Knowles’ discussion of each stated

' criterion to see whether it is an adequate

_.‘tool to distinguish between recreation
"and a ult education. In every case we
are led to agree with him that the sug-
gested standards of differentiation are
unsatisfactory. This situation moves on
to the logical necessity of defining the
two terms under consideration.

He scores again in choosing Howard
Braucher’s definition of recreation,
which I am happy to have the Oppor-
tunity of repeating: “Any form of lei-
sure-time experience or activity in which
an individual engages from choice be-
cause of the enjoyment and satisfaction
that it brings directly to him.” An
added statement by Mr. Braucher gives
additional emphasis to the potential 0p-
portunity for creative expression and
development of the individual’s innate
powers.

Using Howard Braucher’s definitions
of recreation as stated in Mr. Knowles’
article and above, I consider adult edu-
cation to be clearly recreation. It is
without question, a form of leisure-time
activity in which peOple choose to en-
gage because of the enjoyment and sat-
isfaction brought to them. Furthermore,
the greater the opportunity for creative
expression and the development of
powers in a particular type or course in
adult education, the greater the amount
of recreation and the higher its quality.
From the standpoint of the individual,
I have a very simple and homely defi-
nition of recreation: “What one chooses
to do, when he has spare time to do what
he wants to do.”

In the years 1945-1947, when I was
privileged to serve on the staff of the
National Recreation Association, I had
opportunity to observe rather closely in
twenty-two northeastern states the adult
education programs operated by state
departments of education and public in-
struction. One-third to one-half of the
course offerings in adult education in
these states would be clearly recognized
by title as well as content as recreation,
and measured in the light of either
Howard Braucher’s definition or mine,
all of the offerings were recreation.

The best kinds of recreation come
through the creative use of leisure-time.

Mr. Knowles’ definition of adult edu-
cation is excellent. It is: “Any activity
engaged in voluntarily by mature men
and women that produces changes in
their knowledge, understanding, skills,

RECREATION

attitudes, interests, or appreciations.”
Any adult recreation provided by a pub-
lic recreation department or a group-
work agency will achieve in some de-
gree what is outlined in the above defi-
nition and more; that is, it will bring
joy and satisfaction, even fun.

Mr. Knowles expresses the thought
that, ideally, there should be no differ-
ence between adult education and rec-
reation. However, I take the positions,
iirst, that adult education is recreation
and, second, that the recreation of the
adult is education.

Education from the standpoint of the
individual is the result of activity.
Education takes place only through ac-
tivity, through participation, through
reaction to the many stimuli in our en-
vironment. From the standpoint of soci-
ety an attempt is made to select whole-
some constructive activities to become
the curriculums of our schools,
churches and social agencies so that the
education resulting from these activities
will be constructive and socially ap-
proved.

It should also be remembered that
recreation methods can make education
more enjoyable and meaningful, where-
ever it takes place. Education should
not shun or fear recreation but rather
seek it and welcome it. One of the most
fundamental responsibilities of the
school as a social agency is recreation
education, or definitely purposing, plan-
ning and carrying out a broad program
of educating for the worthy use of lei-
sure in all branches of the curriculum
and at all age levels, adult as well as
others. As recreation education is seri-
ously and effectively developed in the
schools of the nation, the demand for an
ever higher quality of recreation in pub-
lic recreation and other recreation agen-
cies will be evident. For people.will be
recreationally educated to higher levels
of constructive, creative expression.

H. G. METCALF, Department of Rec-
reation Education, State University

of New York Teachers College,
Cortland, New York.

(See Mr. Metcalf’s article on page
314—Ed.)

* 'I' 'I' *
Sirs:

I read with a great deal of interest,
the article by Malcolm Knowles in the
February issue, “Recreation and Adult
Education.” I have also enjoyed the
comments on your Letters page.

In Baldwin, we have a school-spon-
sored recreation program which has
been in operation for the past three
years. I am supervisor of this program
and we have established a year-round
recreation program for all boys and
girls from age five through the teens.

Last year our school administration
considered the combining of recreation

SEPTEMBER 1955

and adult education under one admin-
istrative head. After much discussion
and investigation it was decided to go
ahead with this plan. For the past year
I have held the position of recreation
supervisor and director of adult educa-
tion for the Baldwin Public Schools.
We are the first in our community to
bring these two programs under one ad-
ministrative head in this area and I
would be anxious to know if this is
being done in other sections of the coun-
try. Since we have made this step, two
communities here on Long Island have
done the same thing.

I would be glad to correspond with
anyone who might like further informa-
tion about this arrangement.

MORTON K.THAU,Recreation Super-
visor and Director of Adult Educa-
tion, Baldwin, New York.

* * 'I' *
Sirs:

Regarding Malcolm Knowles’ guest
editorial in the February issue, we make
a mistake, it seems to me, when we carry
the analysis of differences between
adult education and recreation to the
last tiny detail. The centers of gravity
of the two are diiierent: adult educa-
tion seeks life enrichment primarily
through learning while recreation seeks
life enrichment through ways of per-
sonal fulfillment that have primary
values other than learning, specifically,
adventure, social relationships, achieve-
ment; adult education, by definition,
focuses on the adult population while
recreation is experience needed by and,
to a large extent, enjoyed by all the peo-
ple young and old in the manner of their
own choosing; adult education may be
compulsory either legally or by other
authority but recreation is never com-
pulsory since it loses that essential qual-
ity of self-motivation when any form of
compulsion is applied. .

It is my conviction that a large part
of the enjoyment associated with recre-
ation experience arises from the edu-
cational changes that occur in the indi-
vidual. Mere amusement can be distin-
guished from recreation by the absence
of this educational element. It does not
follow, however, that any experience;
e.g., learning to sculpt, which has edu-
cational value thereupon becomes “edu-
cation,” nor that an educational experi-
ence such as learning to cook which has
important recreational values is there-
fore “recreation.” What is the social
purpose for which this particular ex-
perience has been made possible? Here,
it seems to me, is the basis of distinc-
tion and the clue to the establishment of
separate professions, separate agencies.

H. C. HUTCHINS, Assistant Profes-
sor of Education and Coordinator
of the Recreation Curriculum, the
University of Wisconsin.

 

AMERIcAN
duo/lawn!

PLAYGROUND
EQUIPME NT

0 It’s the plus factor that makes
American the most respected name
in Playground Equipment . . . Plus
in design—American leads the field.
.. .Plus in performance—Approved
Equipment stronger, more ruggedly
built to assure a lifetime of perfect
repair-free service . . . Plus in safety—
for American craftsmen are aware of
their responsibility for the safety of
your’children. Thus, with American
you receive far superior design and
performance and unmatched safetyt

Seml for New Catalog

{1'- write for literature featuring
umericun approved iim putterson

lIFETIME Aluminum

nIyING BOARD

world's finestioftic'iglbourd

 

‘ 7 _.

may“

PLAYGROUND DEVICE CO.

ANDERSON, INDIANA, U. S. A.

WORLD'S tARGEST MANUFACTURERS or FINE
PARK, PICNIC. PLAYGROUND, SWIMMING
POOl AND onsssmc ROOM sommem

    

- v - s;- °_.-é- :

BRANCH PLANT AT NAHMA, MICHIGAN

305

Editorially Speaking

 

School Emphasis

Although we are not labeling this
issue of RECREATION as a “school issue,”
because We are including a whole sec-
tion on the forthcoming National Rec-
reation Congress in Denver,the primary
emphasis of the contents that follow is
upon school-community cooperation in
providing local community recreation
services, and it has been so planned by
request. College educators found our
September 1954 school issue of value,
and in some instances made it required
reading in their classes.

We feel that cooperation of the
schools and the city recreation depart-
ment plays an important role in the rec-
reation-education process, and we hope
you won’t miss reading the articles on

this topic, by Dr. Brightbill and Dr.
Metcalf, on pages 314 to 318.

New Horizons in Recreation

Recreation and education are a team
working for improvement of commu-
nity life. Both have similar aims: (a)
preservation of our democratic form of
life, (b) improvement of the level of
living, (0) maximum development of
each individual.

Surely, a properly developed and
supervised recreation program can
make a positive contribution toward
these objectives.

School buildings should be planned
as neighborhood and community cen-
ters. In Philadelphia, the relationship
between the board of education and the
recreation department has been
strengthened as a result of the work of
the Coordination Board. Informal
agreements have been reached in the
use of school facilities for recreation
purposes and a fine coordinated rela-
tionship exists in other areas. Possibly,
the relationship should involve consid-
eration of design, operation, and financ-
ing of joint facilities. Although a good
start has been made and all concerned
have a mutual respect for each other,
changes do occur in administrative per-
sonnel as well as board members and a
more binding agreement concerning the
use of school facilities and the financing

of the program should result.

306

Last year, for the first time, a num-
ber of school buildings were turned over
to the recreation department for eve-
ning recreation use. The board of edu-
cation supplied heat, light, and jani-
torial services. The recreation depart-
ment supplied leadership.

There is no valid reason why public
education and public recreation should
acquire and develop entirely separate
properties to serve the same neighbor-
hood when one property is sufhcient to
the purposes of both. 011 the contrary,
there are important reasons for the
joint acquisition and deveIOpment of
sites and facilities. When joint effort
is made, the public benefits in lesser
costs, more efhcient use of land, less
supervision, and richer opportunity for
living and learning. The fine coopera-
tive agreements that have been develop-
ed between the board of education and
the department of recreation will re-
sult in greater service to.the community
at reduced costs.

A municipal recreation department
cannot live in a vacuum and there must
be concern and action for regional as
well as state planning. People seeking
recreation opportunities are not con-
scious of city and county boundaries
any more than they are in the other
government fields such as streets, sewer,
water, and fire. -——Excerpted from a
speech by Robert Crawford, commis-
sioner of recreation in Philadelphia, at
a meeting of prominent Philadelphia
civic leaders.

God Left the
Challenge in the Earth

When God made the earth, He could
have finished it. But He didn’t. In-

stead, He left it as a raw material—to
tease us, to tantalize us, to set us think-

ing and experimenting and risking and

adventuring! And therein we find our
supreme interest in living.

Have you ever noticed that small chil-
dren in a nursery will ignore clever
mechanical toys in order to build with
spools and strings and sticks and blocks
a world of their own imagination?

And so with grown-ups, too. God
gave us a world unfinished, so that we

might share in the oys and satisfactions
of creation.

He left the oil in Trenton rock.

He left the aluminum in the clay.

He left the electricity in the clouds.

He left the rivers un-bridged—and
the mountains un-trailed.

He left the forests un-felled and the
cities un-built.

He left the laboratories un-opened.

He left the diamonds un-cut.

He gave us the challenge of raw ma-
terials, not the satisfaction of perfect,
finished things.

He left the music un-sung and the
dramas un-played.

He left the poetry un-dreamed, in
order that men and women might not
become bored, but engage in stimulat-
ing, exciting, creative activities that
keep them thinking, working, experi-
menting and experiencing all the joys
and durable satisfactions of achieve-
ment.

There is no Shangri-La where our
every want can be supplied by wishing.
There is no substance to the philosophy
of “getting by.” There is nothing worth
while gained by chance. .

Work, thought, creation. These give
life its stimulus, its real satisfaction, its
intriguing value.

Progress comes, not by some magic
word and not by government edict, but
from the thoughts, the toil, the tears,
the triumphs of individuals who accept
the challenge of raw material—and by
the grace of Cod-given talents produce
results which satisfy the needs of men.
——DR. ALLAN A. STOCKDALE.

Fact Kit on Comics

For the first time, there is now avail-
able a complete, informative, presenta-
tion of the whole story of the Comics
Magazine Association of America, Inc.,
and what it is doing. This material has
been published for the benefit of indi-
viduals and groups who are interested
in the comic book industry’s program
for self-regulation. The fact kit includes
eight basic booklets about comic books,
together with a reproduction of the
Seal of Approval of the Comics Code
Authority and a copy of the Comics
Code. It is available free from Comics
Magazine Association of America, 1110.,

41 East 42nd Street, New York 17.

RECREATION

 

SEPTEMBER 27

Congress Forecast

T 10:00 A.M. Mountain Standard Time, on Tuesday,
September 27, the 37th National Recreation Congress
will be convened, ofiicially, in Denver, Colorado.

Congress activity will have started earlier with the open-
ing of the registration desk, the setting up of commercial and
educational exhibits “and displays, and the completion of the
National Recreation Association’s own consultation center
on Monday.

The speaker at the convening session will be Harlow O.
Whittemore, head of the department of landscape architec-
ture and planning at the University of Michigan. Dr. Whit-
temore will talk on the subject of the preservation and ac-
quisition of public open spaces and will present the findings
of a recent workshOp of the American Institute of Planners.

Other general speakers on the Congress program will be
Brigadier General Richard H. Carmichael, USAF, Dr. A]-
bert S. Raubenheimer of the University of Southern Cali-
fornia and Edgar Ansel Mowrer, widely known reporter and
commentator on world affairs. (See June 1955 issue of REC-
REATION.)

Dr. Raubenheimer will address the first evening general
session of the Congress, on Tuesday, on creative aspects of
our recreation program, and Mr. Mowrer will address the

Thursday evening general session on the importance of the
self-reliant individual.

General Carmichael, who will ad-
dress the Wednesday morning general
session, is deputy director of person-
nel procurement and training of the
Air Force. He will speak on the im-
portance of recreation for the morale
of servicemen as well as for the morale
of their families. The new Air F oree
Academy is located at Colorado
Springs, and Congress delegates will

 

Dr. Whittemore

SEPTEMBER 1955

TO OCTOBER 1,

 

1955

have an opportunity to see its location on Saturday follow-
ing adjournment of the Congress.

The Wednesday morning general session will be chaired
by George Hjelte, chairman of the NRA National Advisory
Council. Mr. Hjelte is also general manager of the depart-
ment of recreation and parks in Los Angeles. Following
the plans tried last year at St. Louis, there will be no general
session on Wednesday evening but a series of special fea-
tures is being planned for that time.

The general program plans for the Congress have been
developed again this year with the cooperation of a number
of special Congress committees, which have been listed in
earlier issues of RECREATION magazine, and with the help of
a number of the national advisory committees to the Na-
tional Recreation Association. More than 15,000 copies of
the Congress preliminary pamphlet have been printed and
widely distributed but copies are still available if you were
missed or if you would like an additional supply.

The Denver Convention and Visitors Bureau reports
heavy correspondence with reference to room reservations
and any delegates who have not yet arranged for rooms
should write immediately to the bureau at 225 West Colfax
Street, Denver. All Congress reservations are being handled
by the bureau this year. Reference to the map of the Con-
gress area will show how near the three Congress hotels are.

      

Gen. Carmichael

Mrs. Pomeroy

307'

to each other. Congress headquarters will be maintained in
the Shirley-Savoy but meetings will also be held in the
Brown Palace and CosmOpolitan.

Special Features

In addition to more than fifty different section meetings
and the general sessions of the Congress, an interesting and
valuable series of special features is also being planned. As
previously announced, Dr. Frederick Hall and Bob Smith
will conduct sessions in the field of music. Dr. Hall, chair-
man of the department of music at State Teachers College
in Montgomery, Alabama, will be remembered for his action
spirituals at the St. Louis Congress last year. Bob Smith,

M E. 18th AVE.
:llllllllll

- - — COSMOPOLITAN
HOTEL

   
   

 

"' " BROWN PALACE
HOTEL

E. 17th AVE.

HOTEL
"" " SHIRLEY-SAVOY

B ROADWAY

 

coordinator of music in Denver, is the author of the article,
“Music As Recreation in the Mile High City” which ap-
peared in RECREATION for May.

Other special features previously announced are the arts
and crafts workshop on Thursday, September 29, morning
and afternoon, conducted by Lester Griswold of Colorado
Springs and the bowling clinic conducted by the American
Junior Bowling Congress on Wednesday afternoon.

Mrs. Morris H. Pomeroy, founder and director of the
Recreation Center for the Handicapped in San Francisco,
will lead a special meeting on recreation and the handi-
capped at which she will tell about some of the outstanding
work being done at the center in San Francisco. Those who
have seen the San Francisco program are enthusiastic about
it and there is much interest generally in the problems of
adapting recreation activities for the handicapped people.

Special features are also being planned in the field of
drama, and both Miss Helen M. Dauncey and Mrs. Anne
Livingston of the National Recreation Association staff will
be in Denver to organize and direct sessions featuring social
recreation activities.

Dr. Morton Bard, clinical psychologist in the department
of rehabilitation at Memorial Center for Cancer and Allied
Diseases, New York, will address the first session of the

‘1
Hospital Recreation Conference on Tuesday morning. Dr.

Bard’s talk will be devoted to the anxieties caused by illness
and how recreation can help. He is widely known for the
thinking and speaking which he has done on this subject,
and his opening statement will set_ the stage for the series
of hospital meetings which will follow on Tuesday and Wed-
nesday. Plans are being made for the National Recreation
Association’s new motion picture on recreation in hospitals
to be screened for the first time on Wednesday evening.

The National Advisory Committee on Recreation Admin-
istration has helped this year in planning the executive ses-
sions which will be held all day on Tuesday, beginning im-
mediately after the adjournment of the convening session.
About forty of the leading executives in the country have
agreed to serve as chairmen and as reporters for the twenty
sub-groups during the executive meetings.

The National Advisory Committee on the Recruitment,
Training, and Placement of Recreation Personnel has helped
in the planning of three meetings, one on graduate educa-
tion, one on salaries for recreation workers, and one on in-
service training.

The National Advisory Committees on Recreation Re-
search, State Recreation, Program, and the National Ad-
visory Committee to the International Recreation Service
have also helped with plans for the meetings and demon-
strations in their respective fields of interest.

All of the national advisory committees have scheduled
meetings during the week of the Congress and members of
each committee will receive specific information as to date
and time.

Important among special events will be the Congress Bar-
B-Q and the Denver show on Friday evening. These will both
take place at Red Rocks Mountain Park, sixteen miles south-
west of Denver, following the afternoon tour of recreation
points of interest in and around the city. (See pictures on
pages 312-313). The Saturday schedule is being left flexible
except that definite plans are being worked out for those
delegates who wish to visit Colorado Springs, home of the
new Air Force Academy and possessor of an outstanding
recreation program and park system.

The National Recreation Congress is an outstanding ex-
perience in the life of any recreation worker. The Congress
is a week filled with fellowship, inspiration, and Opportuni-
ties to learn. Everyone who attends a Congress whether he
is on the official program or not is an active participant in
the program, and his stay at the Congress is all the more
valuable to him and to others because of this. The wide range
of interest of recreation leaders is reflected in the program
of every Congress; but for all its reputation for hard work
the Congress is a recreation experience. 0

 

Training for leisure is generations behind schedule now. Yet it

is not too late if the educational effort be well-directed and strongly

supported. Leisure must mean freedom with control—and self-control
with freedom.—HOWARD BRAUCHER, in “Treasury of Living."

308

RECREATION

Directory of Commercial Exhibitors

The companies below will have exhibit booths at the Denver Congress; and, one and
all, they join the National Recreation Association in extending a warm welcome to
delegates. Their colorful displays are always a familiar and helpful part Of the big
meeting. Here you can personally examine that piece of equipment which you have

been considering for a long time.

A typical letter received from a delegate after the Congress last year stated: “The ex-
cellent commercial exhibits, alone, were worth my long trip tO the Congress. I was able
to order some necessary and very valuable materials.”

Be sure tO get acquainted with these people. Look them up in the booths listed:

Company Booth

AMERICAN PLAYGROUND DEVICE COMPANY *

Anderson, Indiana 1
RAWLINGS SPORTING GOODS COMPANY *

St. Louis, Missouri 2
NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION

Washington, D.C. 3
THE FELT CRAFTERS

Plaistow, New Hampshire 4
N EHI CORPORATION

Columbus, Georgia 5
CENTRAL TEXAS IRON WORKS

Waco, Texas 6
RADIO CORPORATION OF AMERICA

Camden, New Jersey 7
THE SEVEN-UP COMPANY

St. Louis, Missouri 8
THE COMBINED BOOK EXHIBIT

New York, New York 9 8t 10
THE REX CORPORATION

West Acton, Massachusetts 11
NATIONAL PARK & RECREATION SUPPLY

COMPANY

South Haven, Michigan 12
PLAYGROUND ASSOCIATES, INC.

New York, New York 13
CHICAGO ROLLER SKATE COMPANY *

Chicago, Illinois 14.
THE MACGREGOR COMPANY * n .

Cincinnati, Ohio 15
MIRACLE EQUIPMENT COMPANY 16, 17

Grinnell, Iowa . 81 18
DUDLEY SPORTS COMPANY

New York, New York 19
BERLIN CHAPMAN COMPANY ’

Berlin, Wisconsin 20
SQUARE DANCE ASSOCIATES *

F reeport, New York 21

Company

W. R. MOODY GOLD STAMPING COMPANY *
' Burbank, California

ERIKSEN’S CRAFTS
Hutchinson, Kansas

THE HANDCRAFTERS
Waupun, Wisconsin

THE J. E. BURKE COMPANY
New Brunswick, New Jersey

THE COCA COLA COMPANY
New York, New York

THE HANNA MANUFACTURING COMPANY
Athens, Georgia“

KALAH GAME COMPANY
Dorchester, Massachusetts

A. G. SPAULDING & BROS.
Chicago, Illinois

BOLCO ATHLETIC COMPANY
Los Angeles, California

SUN AIRED BAG COMPANY
Sunland, California

CLEVELAND CRAFTS COMPANY
Cleveland, Ohio

WILSON SPORTING GOODS COMPANY
Chicago, Illinois

PLAY SCULPTURES DIVISION,
CREATIVE PLAYTHINGS, INC.

Neinork, New York

AMERICAN ART CLAY COMPANY
Indianapolis, Indiana

PEPSI-COLA COMPANY
New York, New York

THE PROGRAM AIDS COMPANY
New York, New York

NATIONAL BOWLING COUNCIL
Washington, D.C.

DENNISON MANUFACTURING COMPANY
Framingham, Massachusetts

HILLERICH & BRADSBY COMPANY *
Louisville, Kentucky

* See advertisement in this issue.

SEPTEMBER 1955

Booth

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

29

30

31

34

35

36

37

388139

40

41

42 &43

309

\‘ v '
X Wish} .. :41); '1 0 l"
1. ‘ 5 .' ‘ I“ '1‘" "'I‘
'x. f . ‘5

IN DENVER you will see one of the
country’s most beautiful civic cen-
ters, noted for its distinctive architec-

ture and, just across the green lawns, is
the Colorado State Capitol, built of Col-
orado gray granite. Its dome is covered
with gold leaves from Colorado’s gold
mines. When you visit it you will be ex-
actly one mile above sea level, which is
the reason the queen city of the plains is
often called “The Mile High City.” As
you reach the fifteenth step, you will be
standing on one of the most photo-
graphed Spots in the city.

In the civic center is the Denver City
and County Building, built on modified
lines of Roman Ionic and Corinthian
architecture at a cost of $4,500,000, and
at the southside of the center, a unique
outdoor Greek amphitheatre—for con-
certs, public forums, square dancing,
and shuffleboard. The main library is
on the north side, and the new $3,000,-
000 library is under construction on the
south.

The United States Mint may be vis-
ited between 9:00 A. M. and 1 :00 P. M.,
Monday through Friday, and it prob-
ably coined the very penny in your
pocket as you read this.

The Colorado State Historical Mu-
seum, just off the State Capitol, with its
exhibits of prehistoric races and culture
has notable scale models of Indian life,
Mesa Verde dwellings and pe0ple, and
a miniature model of early Denver. The
Denver Museum of Natural History, on
the east side of City Park, is world fa-
mous for its original manner of dis-
playing unusual collections of natural-
habitat groups of animals, birds, and
flowers. Other museums are the Denver
Art Museum, Children’s Museum, Ori-
ental House, and Chappell House.

Space does not permit description of
our educational institutions, magnifi-

310

cent Auditorium Arena, the Denver Col-
iseum—home of the National Western
Stock Show—and our fine indoor ice
skating arena.

A drive to the top of lofty Mount
Evans, on one of the highest mountain
roads in the world, is a never-to-be for-
gotten experience. This mighty sentinel
reaches an elevation of 14,260 feet
above sea level. The 120-mile round-
trip from Denver offers many awe-in-
spiring sights, magnificent views of dis-
tant mountain ranges, valleys, and lakes
formed from the melting snow.

Pikes Peak, at an elevation of 14,110
feet, towers over the Colorado Springs
area. The trip to the top may be made
by cog railroad or over an excellent
highway, through Manitou Springs and
the Seven Falls area.

Rocky Mountain National Park, sev-
enty miles northwest of Denver, con-
tains 405 square miles of some of the
most spectacular scenery of the Rockies,
in which are located forty-two mountain
peaks of over 12,000-feet elevation,
dominated by mighty Longs Peak,
14,255 feet above sea level, a challenge
to all mountain climbers. There are also
easy trails into the picturesque country
and excellent highways over which one
may drive in leisurely fashion. Trail
Ridge Road crosses the Continental Di-
vide in the park, a superb highway of
gradual grade which reaches an eleva-
tion of 12,183 feet at its highest point.

Mesa Verde National Park, in the

southwestern section of the state, is es-
pecially noted for the ruins of homes
and villages of the ancient cliff dwellers.
The ruins are found in canyons which
intersect a high plateau that once is
supposed to have supported 70,000 peo-
ple. These relics of Indian lore are re-
ported as the greatest prehistoric Indi-
an ruins known to exist. Both national

  
     

parks offer guided tours and evening
entertainment of lectures and showings
of pictures, staged by park rangers.

Colorado contains six spectacular na-
tional monuments. One of them, Dino-
saur National Monument, subject of
present controversy, is in the north-
western corner of Colorado, and con-
tains primitive country of unsurpassed
beauty, such as the canyons of the
Yampa and Green Rivers, which con-
verge at Steamboat Rock, and are spec-
tacular in their unusual rock forma-
tions, interesting faults (fractures in
the earth’s crust) and colorings. The
canyons vary in depths from 1,600 to
2,400 feet. The monument also contains
deposits of fossil remains of prehistoric
life of great scientific interest. .

At the Royal Gorge in the south-cen-
tral part of the state near Canon City,
the Arkansas River cuts through a gorge
of precipitous walls ranging from 2,600
to 3,000 feet in depth. The highest sus-
pension bridge in the world spans the
gorge 1,053 feet above the river bed.

The San Juan Mountains, The Un-
compahgre Range, the Million Dollar
Highway from Ouray to Silverton, pic-
turesque old mining towns in the south-
western section, all offer much to see._

The western slope of the Rockies has
thousands of miles of excellent trout
fishing streams, rugged mountains of
majestic beauty, and a great deal of
virgin wilderness. The area is rich in
the lore of early-day miners who sought
gold and silver. Now mining is thriving
again, for it is here the greatest deposits
of uranium are located.

The Denver Convention and Visitors
Bureau, 225 West Colfax, Denver, will
be happy to help visitors plan trips or
furnish them with brochures and infor-
mation. They extend the famous western
hospitality for which Colorado is noted.

RECREATION

Both Golf Club and Bat
Catalogs in full color '
will be sent on
request.

 

j \J/mé

GRANFSLAM

Golf Clubs

Sold by Sporting
Goods Dealers

- Choice of the Sold in Pro
L Champions in Shops only

1 Baseball and ‘
i Softball

I

  
 

 o
sf @3991”;
1; HIuERIcHaBRAusnm “

r1 '  ‘QUEQIKE33' '

r

HlllERlCH & BRADSBY co.

louisville, Kentucky

_. .w.._._..\,___‘....\...kw....«, “Anew. .

 

SEPTEMBER 1955 311

Denver Mountain Parks System

   

 ,

 "£17; .    I ‘     
IN THE HIGH COUNTRY.

. "* Joya

Mountain ranges and snow-capped peaks of Colorado offer a

       

’ M.   “at- r... a». a .. ... .

never-to-be-forgotten experience. Riders rest at top of Buckskin Pass. In the background
.. you can see Snowmass Peak, 14,077 feet high. The state flower is the mountain columbine.

DENVER IS the only American municipality which has
mountain parks that it can call its own. Its famed and
unique mountain parks system should be of special interest
to recreation and park leaders not only for its beauty but
because it illustrates a triumph of perseverance on the part
of forward-looking municipal and civic leaders. Embracing.
a wide variety of scenery—foothills, peak-to-plain views,
canyons and open valleys, lakes, alpine meadows, creeks;
woodland and wild flower areas—it is the delight of natives,
adopted sons and daughters, and tourists. But the obstacles
that had to be overcome in the establishment of such diversi-
fied rest and recreation facilities proved almost insurmount-
able to the “dreamers” of forty years ago. Fortunately,
those leaders refused to be overawed by opposition, and this
generation is reaping the benefits of their farsightedness.

The chain of parks was first pr0posed by Mayor Robert
W. Spear in an address May 24, 1909, at the twenty-fifth
anniversary banquet of the Denver Chamber of Commerce.
Less than a year later, on February 21, 1910, he again urged
creation of the park system, together with a roadway up
Mount Evans, before a meeting of the Denver YWCA.

After Mayor Spear had planted the seed, the city’s busi-
ness and industrial organizations assumed the responsibility
for nurturing the plant to full growth. In early 1911, the

—- WW7 *7 7———-—

 

‘-

J. EARL SCIILL'PP is the director of recreation in Denver.

312

J. Earl Sclllupp

Chamber of Commerce, Denver Real Estate Exchange, and
the Denver Motor Club, acting independently, began studies
of possible mountain recreation areas. These groups finally
united to form the Mountain Parks Committee of the Com-
mercial Bodies with but one purpose: to establish the moun-
tain playground we enjoy today. They had no precedent
to follow. The idea was unique—and still is.

By dint of much hard work, the battle was won in 1912
and 1913 by convincing:

1. The people of Denver to approve a charter amendment
authorizing the city to act.

2. The state legislature to pass an enabling act.

3. Congress to make the land available.

The first money for the project, secured through a levy of
one-half mill on all Denver property, became available in
1913.

One year later, an Act of Congress permitted Denver to
purchase 7,047 acres of public land at a cost of $1.25 an
acre. The first great construction achievement was the com-
pletion, in 1913, of the famed Lariat Trail up Lookout
Mountain. From then on for the next four years the parks.
and their system of roads expanded rapidly. Lookout Moun-
tain was connected with Bergen Park and a highway snaked
its way up Bear Creek Canyon to Evergreen. During this
period the mountain parks committee was officially in charge
of the park development and continued active, unoHicially,

RECREATION

 

for many more years.

The mountain parks system is now a major responsibility
of the Denver Department of Improvements and Parks and
covers 13,448 acres, or twenty-one square miles, scattered
over an area of 380 square miles. The chain begins fifteen
miles west of Denver at an elevation of 5,681 feet and rises
to Summit Lake, 12,740 feet above sea level and sixty miles
west of the city. Included are twenty-seven named parks,
totaling 8,632 acres and ranging in size from a fraction of
an acre to sprawling Cenesee Mountain Park, which boasts
an 8,274-foot peak in the middle 'of its 2,341 acres.

Twenty-four unnamed wilderness areas cover additional
thousands of acres—territory in which there are twenty
mountain tops—forfeited by homesteaders and granted by
the federal government to the city.

Delegates to the National Recreation Congress will be in-
terested to know that nearly all of the named parks are ac-
cessible by major highways—US. 6, 40, and 285, and C010-
rado 74. Using these routes interchangeably and in com-
bination with interesting roads, the imaginative motorist
can outline more than fifty one-day trips from the city.

The park area is serviced by seventy-six miles of second-
ary roads maintained in the past and policed cooperatively
by Jefferson, Clear Creek, and Denver Counties, the state
highway department, and the U.S. Bureau of Public Roads.

Recreational facilities of the parks sy°stem are as varied
as their surroundings. Play and picnic areas abound. Op-
portunities for hiking and rock climbing are unlimited. The
angler can fish for mountain trout in season.

Buffalo' and elk graze over 1,000 acres of fenced land at
Daniels Park and in the 640-acre enclosure at Cenesee Park.

Perhaps the most surprising feature to the sports-minded
tourist is the Denver Municipal Mountain Parks Golf Course
at Evergreen. Amid rare and breath-taking scenery in the
rarified air of 7,000-foot elevation, the city maintains an
eighteen-hole, sand-green course that offers an unusual chal-
lenge to the golfer.

Another magnetic attraction for visitors, and one deeply
appreciated by thousands of Coloradoans, is the spectacular

THEATRE OF THE RED ROCKS. This amphitheatre
is twelve miles west of Denver, seats ten thousand. The
Congress Bar-B-Q will be held in Red Rocks Mountain

Park, unique and spectacular public recreation area.
 w « “"9

Red Rocks Park with its magnificent Open-air theatre. Sum-
mer concerts under the stars, a famed Easter sunrise service,
and other attractions with wide appeal make Red Rocks a
mecca for those who appreciate the spectacular in natural
surroundings. A Congress outing has been planned at this
spot.

Other favorites are Buffalo Bill’s grave on Lookout Moun-
tain, and Summit Lake—a beautiful way point on the drive
to" the top of Mount Evans, the nation’s highest motorway.

Denver and Colorado are truly blest with one of the
world’s rarest assets in this mountain parks system, which
stands today as a monument to the ingenuity and foresight
of the city’s pre-World War I citizens. By the same token,
the well-cared-for parks reflect a genuine appreciation of
those early-day efforts by present and past city officials who
have carefully nurtured and brought to fullfilment the dream
of the trail blazers. O

In Colorado you don’t need to worry about how to
get to the bills or how to get over them. The state’s

main east-west highways cross from one to three moun-
tain ranges, and side roads will lead you to virtually
every area in the state. The main routes are through
high-walled canyons, across expansive valley areas,
and over rugged mountains. Several roads provide

access to altitudes offering vistas of cloud-swathed,
snowcapped mountains.

 

LARIAT TRAIL. This trail up Lookout Mountain,

where Buffalo Bill is buried, was the first great con-
struction achievement, in 1913, of the first mountain
parks committee. Since then expansion has been rapid.

- -
I, ‘

 

Recreation Education

Two different aspects of a subject which has great

import for the recreation profession. Critical com-

ment will be welcomed by the authors, and is in-
”vited by RECREATION magazine for publication

011 our Letters page.

 

An Interpretation

Harlan G. Metcalf

 

To recreationists who for a number

of years have been concerned with
thinking through the philosophy, the
school-community relationships, and the
definition of recreation, the change
came as no surprise when the National
Association for Health, Physical Edu-
cation, and Recreation recently changed
the title of one of its divisions from the
division of recreation, to the division
of recreation education. It did, how-
ever, cause’considerable surprise and
confusion in the ranks of those profes-
sional people in the closely related areas
of health education and physical edu-
cation, and even among some profes-
sional recreation workers who have had
little occasion to consider the possible
contributions and relationships of rec-
reation to the school program. Further-
more, at the present time the term “rec-
reation education” is quite meaningless
to professional groups, outside of those
already mentioned, and t0 the public
and press generally.

Recreation education is education for
the worthy use of leisure. It pertains to
all the learning experiences of people
which contribute to their development
of interests, knowledges, attitudes, skills,
and practices for increasing the enjoy-
ment and enrichment of living.

“The worthy use of leisure” has been
consistently listed by educators as one
of the seven cardinal principles of edu-
cation. Some educators list the same
objective as “recreative adjustment,” or

’-

HARLAN C. METCALF is chairman of the

department of recreation education at
State Teachers College, Cortland, N. Y.

 

314

adjustment to leisure. In too many
school systems, this objective is taken
for granted or not taken seriously. It
apparently is assumed that the school
needs to make no special effort in help-
ing people to achieve it. The assump-
tion is as false as the assumption that a

teacher can achieve the educational ob- '

jective, “command of the fundamental
processes,” without the effort to teach
reading, Writing, and arithmetic.

If the profession of education is sin-
cere in stating its cardinal objectives,
then it must begin immediately to edu-
cate for leisure time—the process of
recreation education. From the stand-
point of society, this process calls for
institutional (school, home, agency,
community) organization and leader-

ship.

Most people have a fair idea of what
is meant by recreation or at least feel
that they do. For purposes of this arti-
cle, “Recreation is what you do because
you want to when you have spare time
to do what you want to do.” This might
be good or bad, according to whether
your recreation education is good or
bad. In other words, do you have good
leadership which uses good methods in
teaching wholesome attitudes, skills,
and practices leading into lifetime lei-
sure activities? “ .

Recreation from society’s standpoint
places a big premium on well-trained
leadership. Some of our commercial
recreation is definitely bad, or not par-
ticularly good. Also, we all know that

Human beings choose to do what they can do well. Adequate recreation
education should be provided for children throughout the school years.

 

v

RECREATION

many of the best recreations in life are
as free as the air we breathe.

For many people to get the most out
of recreation, however—even those ac-
tivities that are free—a high quality of
recreation education needs to be provid-
ed. This might be available in the home
through parents and relatives.‘ In fact,
in the days before the industrial revo-
lution, parentsand relatives gave much
of this leadership. Today, however,
with both parents frequently working
and young people spending less time in
the home, society is faced with the prob-
lem of providing both good recreation
and good education for recreation; and
the school will be found to have the best
opportunityto give recreation education.

Human beings choose to do or con-
tinue doing the activities they have
found they can do well, and they shun
activities which they do poorly, or those
in which they fear they will fail. Hence,
people hesitate to try new recreation in
their spare time but rather tend to drift
into commercial amusement centers, or
even into vice or delinquent activities.
Only good recreation education meth-
ods of well-trained recreation educators
can hope to compete with the attraction
of commercial recreation, and it is
“touch and go” as to which will win.

’The only sure way is to provide ade-
quate recreation education for the early
elementary grades and throughout
school years, and to “sew up” their in-
terests in wholesome activities by teach-
ing these recreation skills so well that,
when these youngsters have some leisure
time, they will choose the good activities
which they have been taught. The great
task of recreation education is no less
than that of raising the level of the in-
terests and wants of people. The task of
recreation administration is to provide
opportunities, with leadership, equip-
ment, and space—and a specific time
for all people to engage in such activi-
ties as they choose.

Recreation from the individual’s
standpoint is potentially as broad as the
interests of mankind. Recreation for
one person might be work or quite dis-
tasteful activity to another. The same
person may have a great many different
interests or few. There is no one most
important recreation. All true recrea-
tions are most important to the individ-
uals choosing them.

SEPTEMBER. 1955

Some people wonder about the edu-
cational value of recreation. Of course,
any activity in which one consciously
engages results in education—be it good
or bad according to social standards.

Adult Education

Thirty to fifty per cent of all courses
taught in adult education the country
over could be easily identified by lay-
men as being recreational in content,
justafrom the titles used. Adult educa-
tionnhourses, strictly speaking, are all
maneabiun courses for they represent
whatsiulults do because they want to
when thby have spare time to do what
tllqyswant to do. In a real sense adult
edudatzi'on is recreation education for
adults.

‘Every subject taught in our schools,
from kindergarten through college
years, has a rich vein of golden recrea-
tion possibilities. The modern conscien-
tious teacher who takes seriously the

 

“It is of the utmost importance that
we establish, not for the few but for all,
a reasonable program of physical ac-
tivity and that we develon in the school
both the philosophy and the activities
which will be useful in the yea rs beyond
the school. You can exert a steady pres-
sure toward a more rational curriculum
built around the needs of life—the need
for ('n. increased devotion to the fine
arts of music, drama, human relation-
ships, gardening, and architecture.
These are the materials with which we
shall build our civilization.” — JOY
ELMER MORGAN.

 

educational objective, “worthy use of
leisure time,” will enthusiastically dig
for this gold with recreation education
as the tool. He will do this because rec-
reation is a'fundamental necessity for
human life. In Henry Cabot’s book,
What Men Live By,* he says that men
live by “work, play, love, and worship.”
He considers play, which is the same as
adult recreation, one of the four basic
essentials for human living. Play also
has been referred to as “the life of the
child.”

Recreation is increasingly more im-
portant and essential to people. Con-
sider the shorter hours of work, the
miracle drugs that have literally added
many years to the life expectancy of peo-
ple. More persons will retire from work

with more years of leisure. The speed
of transportation and the time-saving
household gadgets add to our quota of
leisure time. p

* 'I' 'I'

Good recreation also is a well-known
approach to the prevention of juvenile
delinquency. Psychiatrists agree that
wholesome recreation for all people is
necessary if sanity is to be maintained
in a world with so much tension and
frustration.

Recreation, then, is tremendously im-
portant in modern life. But, recreation
skills have to be learned; therefore, rec-
reation skills must be taught. Recrea-
tion education should be given major
emphasis in the schools, since they have
the best opportunity to do it.

The recreation of an individual in-
creases in satisfaction through partici-
pation, as theskill of the individual ap-
proaches mastery in the highest levels.

Dr. Jay B. Nash in his descriptive
chart of the use of leisure time,** shows
a triangle representing constructive or
positive uses of leisure time, and direct-
ly underneath and touching the triangle,
a rectangle representing negative uses
of leisure. The common line separating
the triangle and rectangle is the zero
line between good and bad. Below the
line is delinquency leading to definite
crime. Above the line, from its base
up to the apex of the triangle, are identi-
fied four quality levels of use of leisure
time or recreation. The lowest level of
this is amusement, or killing time in any
way to relieve monotony. The second
level is entertainment, or emotional par-
ticipation. The third level is active par-
ticipation: playing football, painting,
singing a song. The highest level, at the
apex, is creative participation: the au-
thor of the book, the writer of the play,
the choreographer of the dance, or the
executer of a winning football play.

Probably most people cannot enjoy
particular activities as recreation to the
point of choosing to do these activities
in their spare time because they want to,
unless their recreation education in
these activities has progressed well up
into the participatory levels. One could
feel more confident of their continuing

* Published by Houghton Mifilin Company,
Boston, Massachusetts. Out-of-print.

** Nash, Jay B. The Philosophy of Recrea-
tion and Leisure, Mosby 81 Co., 1953. Price
$3.50.

315

the activity as a life-time recreation if
they participated in this activity on the
creative level. For example, it takes lots
of practice, improvement, and success in
hitting the target before a would-be
archer experiences enough satisfaction
to make archery a life-time hobby. How-
ever, if he, in addition, tastes the endur-
ing satisfaction of designing and mak-
ing his own bows and arrows on the
creative level, he may become an ardent
archer for the rest of his life. The same
creative satisfaction is, of course, avail-
able in many other activities.

Today there is greater emphasis on
originality and creativity, which is a
most hopeful sign. There are, however,
two different points of view. One holds
that you cannot be a creative artist in
the dance or in music if you have not
mastered the ABC’s of dance or music
fundamentals. This again illustrates the

need for recreation education toward
the achievement of mastery in the activ-
ity. The other point of view suggests
that sparks of creativity can be noted in
very young children, in kindergarten
and the grades, and these sparks should
be recognized and fanned into flame on
all occasions in order to assist creativity
to its highest possible development. Let
the child gain satisfaction from doing
his own original thinking, using his own
imagination, suggesting new ways of
doing things. These are the spanksaof
creativity which the good radiation
educator will welcome and stiniulatasdw

Recreation education should: tenth
wholesome activities so well thabpeqplh
will choose to do them when theiy‘shahe
spare time to do what they want .mlulo.

Recreation education requires a high-
er standard of leadership than is neces-
sary in a classroom in which children

come because they have to come. Where
good recreation education is present,
people are there because they want to
be there.

Too much of the emphasis in the edu-
cation of the past has suggested that the
major concern in teaching was for vo-
cational efficiency or earning a living.
The major concern of recreation edu-
cation is helping people to live lives with
increasing richness and enjoyment.
What does it profit a person to have
earned a living if he does not know how
to live a life?

Education is beginning to recognize
the importance of recreation. The
schools should COOperate in every pos-
sible way with public recreation depart-
ments and other community agencies in
fostering adequate, good recreation for
all. 0

 

Its Present Status and Future Direction

Charles K. Brightbill

 

IT would be difficult, indeed, to sensi-

bly discuss where we are at present
in recreation education and where we
are going without examining, at least
briefly, the place and development of
recreation in contemporary society.

If we look closely, despite the notice-
able shift from a domestic to a tech-
n010gical and, now, an atomic economy,
we see that our people are not so sur-
prisingly different from what they have
been down through the decades. People
still seek good health, better homes,
more education, a decent standard of
living, and an abundant life.

The answers to our many social and
potential problems remain to confound
us. Nuclear physics has not resolved
our differences in political ideologies,
and jet propulsion has brought us no
closer to God. Hydrogen has not
brought with it happiness, and our un-
surpassed production has not yet given
us peace of mind! What is it then for
which we strive? Could it be in part an
eternal desire to live zestfully and
abundandy?

 

From address given at State University
of New York Teachers College, March
’54. DR. CHARLES BRIGHTBILL is pro-

fessor of recreation at the University
of Illinois.

316

No matter how one looks at the pic-
ture, it is inevitable that pe0ple will
have more and still more leisure. The
question is: will this leisure become an
asset or a liability? Will it be used in
a way which will contribute to the de-
terioration of character, or will it be
used for personal growth and develop-
ment and the enhancement of our gen-
eral well—being? What does recreation
education have to offer?

First let us look at the modern con-
cept of recreation. Recreation is today
every bit as important in the lives of
people as are education, health, and wel-
fare, in their best sense. In fact, these
areas of activity are no longer com-
pletely independent of recreation, and
one may wonder if they ever have been.
Recreation is not hemmed in by organi-
zational, geographical, or institutional
boundary lines. It is the exclusive do-

main of no single individual, group,

interest, agency, institution, or nation-
ality. It is not a luxury, but a necessity.
It need not hang on to the coattails of
physical education, social group work,
or a campaign to cure civic ills. It is a
safety zone for everyone, an opportunity
for all. Recreation is best understood
when looked upon as a channel for free-
time opportunities which lead to so-
cially acceptable, productive pursuits

for self-discovery and self-expression
—the net results of which are person-
ality growth and deve10pment.

Organized recreation is a product of
the twentieth century, growing out of
the urbanization of the population and
the advance of industrial technology
and medical science. Since the turn of
the century, the growth of organized
recreation in the United States has be-
come sensational; since World War II,
its advance has been phenomenal. Over-
looking the countless thousands of rec-
reation and avocation activities which
Americans pursue “on their own,” doz-
ens of new, local, tax-supported recrea-
tion systems are established each year.
Recreation boards and commissions,
school boards, and park departments
offering many kinds of public recreation
services are springing up like mush-
rooms after an April shower.

The well-known school district is find-
ing its counterpart in the newer recrea-
tion and /or park district. No less than
forty-one per cent of all the money
raised by community chests in the
United States is being spent by volun-
tary agencies engaged in recreation.
Last year the Wall Street Journal esti-
mated that management alone spends
almost a half-billion dollars a year on
recreation, and this does not take into

RECREATION

account what the 'labor unions are
doing. The held of hospital recreation,
particularly in neur0psychiatric institu-
tions and children’s hospitals, is the
fastest growing of all of the specialized
recreation settings. The states, too, are
undertaking new roles in recreation—~—
and so the story goes.

The colleges and universities are de-
veloping line, well-planned and execut-
ed curriculums for the preparation of
recreation personnel, both in the under-
graduate and graduate years. Accord-
ing to a study in June 1954, there were
available from four to seven recreation
positions for each qualiiied person grad-
uating with a recreation major. Only
now is the curtain going up on recrea-
tion opportunities in the international
and commercial recreation fields.

This is the cross-roads at which we
stand to look at recreation education.
As we examine its present status and
try to determine the direction in which
it is going, or should go, we shall do
well to keep a number of points in mind:

1. Recreation education has two pur-
poses to serve: to help prepare com-
petent, resourceful and imaginative
leadership which can provide the pro-
fessional direction necessary in this
vital public service; and to help make
available recreation experiences for
everyone so that he, with or without as-
sistance, may find enjoyable and satis-
fying use of his leisure. In the second
of these, the size of the constituency
to be served, which is “everyone,” is
a load which the entire structure of
education must undertake to support. It
is a job in which educational institu-
tions from the kindergarten up will have
to have the help of the home, the church,
and the community.

2. Recreation education, like the or-
ganized reCreation movement, is young.
It possesses both the liabilities and the
assets of the adolescent. It has energy,
enthusiasm, and a sparkling vitality, but
lacks maturity, experience, and the
other virtues which come with age;
however, by the same token, it is not
shackled by wornout traditions and dog-
matic principles. It is in its “impres—
sionable years,” but there is nothing
save glorious opportunity ahead.

3. Interrelated as recreation educa-
tion is to the areas of physical educa-
tion, health education, and other forms

SEPTEMBER 1955

of specialized education, it has at the
same time differences from these fields.
For those who are responsible for the
development of educational opportu-
nities on any front, it would be well to
accept, as quickly as possible, the prin-
ciple that recreation is an identiiiable,
distinguishable profession in its own
right. It has its own history—short as
it is—its own methods and techniques,
its own opportunities, and objectives
which are comparable with the finest
concepts of American democracy.

4. Finally, we should remember that
because recreation is, by its nature, as
broad, as penetrating, and as universal
as life itself, the process of educating
for recreation inevitably must be adapt-
ed to the changing times, the changing
concepts, and changing needs which so
vividly characterize the position of rec-
reation in the world today.

The last of these points might well
remind us that recreation education has
no quarrel with the so-called general

“State as well as local boards of edu-
cation must conceive of education in
broader terms than perhaps have been
written on the statute books as yet.
Meaningful living for adults as well as
children of today can come only when
the community makes provision there-
fore. Leisure activities are educational
activities if they are at all significant.
There is no such thing as a leisure ac-
tivity without educational import.
Broadening the social, vocational, and
avocational interests is a function of the
school.”—-—N. L. ENGELHARDT.

education program. If it is the purpose
of general education to teach ways of
democratic living, to understand the
world and life about us, to attain health
and emotional stability, to understand
and enjoy the arts, to develop construc-
tive skills and to stimulate intellectual,
personal, and social growth, then that
is exactly what recreation education is
attempting—and this in a laboratory of
living which not only allows but even
generates personal enjoyment.

If general education seeks to dis-
cipline the imagination through expo-
sure to the humanities—literature, mu-
sic, art, and the like, then no recreation
education curriculum worth its salt is
found without such requisites.

If general education recognizes that

minds which go to school are accom-
panied by bodies, and that both the
physical and mental qualities combine
to make the whole man, then I say that
recreation education has long since put
this principle to work.

If general education demands a foun-
dation in the physical and biological
sciences, with even more emphasis upon
social studies, then recreation education
is well on the way to accomplishing the
former’s purposes.

To add to recreation education, pre-
paration in learning how to discover
and meet the off-job needs of pe0ple is
not to rob it of its general education
qualities, but rather to give color, zest
and punch to what, for too many human
beings, has been a drab and dull ex-
istence. Recreation education is one
good answer to the harassed educator
who is accused of placing too much em-
phasis upon “learning how to make a
living” rather than upon “learning how
to live.” Recreation education accepts
the belief that liberal learning in itself
increases the joy of living for pe0ple.
We know that it makes for a better
leader in a profession which involves
wide social, economic, and ethical con-
siderations.

Let not anyone get the impression,
however, that the way to develop a good
curriculum in recreation education is to
go from department to department on a
college campus with a basket on the
arm, placing in it a course from here
and a course from there and calling the
net results a recreation curriculum. The
principle of mobilizing and using total
collegiate resources for recreation train-
ing is a sound one, but the matter of
orienting, of gearing, and of relating
such resources to the needs of recreation
education is of paramount importance.

A tests-and-measurements course in
physical education and health education
does not become an adequate course in
recreation tests and measurements
merely by tacking on to the course title
the word “recreation.” Indeed, a good
course in general statistics might better
serve the purpose. The progress of
recreation education can too easily
flounder on the rocks of misunderstand-
ings and just plain lack of knowledge
of how and where the emphasis should
be placed on recreation subjects in con-
trast to the conventional and traditional

317

approaches to allied fields.

Colleges and universities, if they are
to make sound plans for the prepara-
tion of recreation personnel, must gear
their resources to the problems and
needs of placement. Nobody really
knows at the moment actually how many
recreation jobs are available in the
country and how many job opportuni-
ties there will be within the next five or
ten years. Present employment esti-
mates currently range from 7,000 to
15,000 full-time, year-round leaders in
public recreation, 20,000 to 30,000 full-
time positions in both public and private
agencies, and upwards of 50,000
workers on a part-time or seasonal basis.
We know that there is about a sixteen-
per-cent turnover in the professional
field of recreation each year. In any
event, it is certain that the needs and
demands for trained recreation person-
nel have exceeded the supply by far for
the last severalyears, and there is no
indication that the gap between supply
and demand is being closed. The move-
ment now, and within the predictable
future, increases at a far faster pace
than the rate at which trained personnel
is made available.

Although the salaries of recreation
personnel are still generally far too low,
more and more communities, and an in-
creasing number of agencies and or-
ganizations, are willing to pay well for
the right person. There are a lot of jobs
available for beginners for around
$4,000; and for others, a good number
in the $5,000 to $10,000'range, and
some above that. Moreover, there are
attractions for students who need finan-
cial help in getting their education in
recreation. There are the usual number
of scholarships and more and more
graduate assistantships and fellowships
available in recreation. Upon receiving
the bachelor’s degree, internships are
available with pay in public recreation
and at institutions training hospital
recreation personnel.

The more important a training pro-
gram becomes, the greater the burden
it imposes upon those responsible for
planning and executing it. There are
probably upwards of sixty institutions
of higher learning where major cur-
riculums are oflered for the bachelor’s
degree in recreation, or where such pro-
grams are soon to be established. Scores

318

more offer some kind of recreation
courses. Graduate recreation degrees
are also obtainable at some institutions.

As in the case in other specialized
areas of education, the quality of these
programs, of course, varies from A to Z.
As set forth in the Jackson’s Mill report,
if properly conceived, these under-
graduate programs should prepare per-
sonnel to plan and carry out recreation
programs and services, develop a recrea-
tion philosophy and an ability to inter-
pret it to others, focus attention upon
and sharpen desirable personal qualities
essential to recreation leaders, provide
experiences which develop competen-
cies relating to recreation leadership,
and develop an appreciation of the dig-
nity of the recreation profession. Such
training will, of course, provide exten-
sive opportunity for field experience as
well as classroom learning.

The problems of selecting, recruiting,
and placing of personnel are responsi-
bilities which fall upon the shoulders of

“I cannot see any other way to build
the foundations of a democratic culture
except by the constructiue educational
systems which must include thorough-
going use of leisure-time.”—_EDUARD C.
LINDEMAN.

 

both the training institutions and the
consumer agency. Indeed, the two
should be in partnership all along the
way, including the planning and de-
velopment of the curriculum. It is ex;
tremely important that the program be
broadly based and broadly executed.

The graduate program should pro-
vide the opportunity for the student to:
(1) acquire a breadth and depth of
knowledge; (2) prepare for the setting
in which he expects to work, such as
government, education, hosPital rec-
reation, industrial education, and the
like; (3) pursue a functional speciality
if he desires, such as sports, drama,
music, camping, and so on; (4-) think
through critically the basic philosophi-
cal and scientific implications of recrea-
tion and leisure; (5) learn how to de-
termine, provide, and evaluate recrea-
tion needs; (6) sharpen administrative
skills; and (7) be subject to the disci-
pline of research.

Both the undergraduate and the

graduate programs can succeed only if
the resources of all available depart-
ments on the campus which have some-
thing to offer are active partners in it.
Anything less than such broad approach
belies the endless and unusual nature of
recreation itself. Such cooperation does
not mean, however, that recreation edu-
cation, because so many have an interest
and stake in it, need not have a clear
identity in the college structure. It must
have a home and a clear place in the
line or organization.

We hope that recreation education
will not remain static as too many pro-
fessional curriculums have d0ne. There
are some immediate problems to be
faced, among them the matters of ac-
creditation, proper identification of rec-
reation personnel, and the development
of a sound research program based
upon intelligent and objective study.

Recreation education, as we know it
now, is at the beginning of a new era—
not only a new era in the affairs of
man, but also a new era in the world
of education. The day will come when
its own resources and energies, as well
as those of its fellow collegiate depart-
ments, will be centered upon the whole
population in an effort to help everyone
make life a little happier, a little more
zestful, and a little more abundant. This
will take a lot of doing, but, then, so
does everything else that is really im-
portant to humanity. O

 

U. N. Day Is Almost Here

October 24 is the date officially de-
signated as United Nations Day. This
year nation-wide observance will mark
the tenth anniversary of that interna-
tional organization. Last spring an ap-
peal was made to all state and terri-
torial governors, and to all mayors of
towns and cities of more than 2500 pop-
ulation, to appoint state and local UN
anniversary committees.

You, as a community recreation lead-
er may be serving on one of these. If
not, it is not too late for you to take the
lead in getting something started in
your own town. Send to United States
Committee for the U. N., 816 Twenty.
first Street, N.W., Washington, D. C.,
for the 1955 Leaders Guide for Individ-
ual and Community Action, and for a
U. N. Tenth Anniversary Program Kit
to help you.

RECREATION

Recreation as a Profession
in the Southern Region

A Review

One of the most comprehensive fact-
hnding investigations" of the held of
recreation of all times resulted when
the National Recreation Association and
the Southern Regional Education Board
joined hands and completed a two-year
study, recently published, Recreation
as a Profession in the Southern Re-
gion.* This is a vast region, marked by
increasing change in a land on which
reside approximately 45,000,000 people
who represent about twenty-nine per
cent of the total population of the United
States.

More than one hundred persons in the
field of recreation and education par-
ticipated in the study. This investiga-
tion stands unequalled in its compre-
hensiveness and statistical approach in
revealing objectively the vital resources,
the status of personnel, and the urgent
needs in the held of recreation in the
southern region. The study is a con-
tribution and a monument to recreation
as a rapidly growing field which is de-
veloping into a worthy profession and
meeting and serving our nation’s cul-
tural needs basic to human life.

It answers adequately many long-
standing questions dealing with recrea-
tion in the South. Some of the signih-
cant ones are:

1. What is the status of organized
recreation in the South? What is its
significance? Is it expanding?

2. What are southern recreation
workers like?

3. What are the educational needs of
the profession?

4. What are the educational oppor-
tunities in recreation provided by the
colleges and universities of the South?

5. Are the educational opportunities
sufficient to meet the educational needs?
If not, what are the deficiencies?

6. What solutions to problems de-
fined by the study arerecommended?

It reveals an accurate picture of the

* Available -from the National Recreation
Association, 8 West Eighth St., New York 11,
New York. $3.75.

SEPTEMBER 1955

A. E. Weatherford II

status of recreation among peeple who
represent little less than one-third of the
population of the United States. No-
where else throughout the pages of his-
tory may there be found such a story 0
recreation, of the people, and of their
land. It has taken a little less than a
half-century to achieve this goal.

In order to obtain a representative
sample of the population, to penetrate
various segments of the field, and to
identify significant aspects of the prob-
lem, the study was restricted to fourteen
states, which are‘ members of the South-
ern Governors’ Conference, and the
District of Columbia. The Upper South
consisted of Kentucky, Maryland, North
Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia, and the
District of Columbia. States included in
the Deep South were Alabama, Florida,
Georgia, Mississippi, and South Caro-
lina. The Southwest was restricted to
Arkansas, Louisiana, Oklahoma, Texas.

Data was obtained from the three
geographic areas by means of a revised
questionnaire sent to agencies and
another to personnel, together with
twenty-three transmittal letters which
revealed (1) the lack of historical rec-
ords, (2) the lack of information as to
racial characteristics of employees, and
(3) questionable accuracy in the report-
ing of agencies of number of college
graduates employed.

The ten major segments investigated
in the southern region were (1) com-
munity recreation, (2) institutional rec-
reation,  voluntary agencies, (4) on-
post recreation for armed forces, (5)
state and national parks,  state rec-
reation services to localities, (7) church
recreation, (8) rural recreation, (9)
industrial recreation, (10) recreation
education.

Among the many outstanding features
of the investigation, a reader will long
remember the way in which the ques-
tions are answered with clarity and con-
ciseness. The hndings in the study are
valid and the conclusions are sound.

Community recreation develops with

the growth of cities in the southern re-
gion; therefore, the probability that
recreation, as a profession, will expand
is great.

For the most part, the typical rec-
reation “worker” is a man who has at-
tended a college or university within the
state in which he is employed. He is
married, has children, and is under
forty. He has been in recreation no
longer than hve years. Only one out of
fourteen of his colleagues with degrees

f majored in recreation.

College graduation with a major in
recreation is now a desirable require-
ment for advancement in the held. Nev-
ertheless, each of fourteen colleges and
universities participating in this study
arenoperating with approximately hfty
per cent of its capacity enrollment in the
recreation curriculums. In all, there are

nineteen colleges and universities offer- _

ing undergraduate recreation education
leading toward degrees in the held;
seven institutions offer graduate de-
grees, and hve colleges sponsor recrea-
tion as a minor. Of the seven colleges

' and Universities which offer graduate

degrees in recreation, five are east of the
Mississippi in the Upper South.

According to a conservative estimate,
there will be 350 vacancies to be hlled
each year. To maintain the level of sixty
per cent of college graduates, 210 of
these would have to hold degrees.

Recommended steps to be taken to
alter the present status of recreation in
the southern region are:

1. Establish a region-wide recruit-
ment program, greatly intensifying na-
tional efforts.

2. Expand the number of undergrad-
uate curriculums on a regional plan if
adequate support and faculty can be ob-
tained.

3. Strengthen existing graduate and
undergraduate programs.

All persons and agencies interested or
engaged in recreation should purchase a
copy of Recreation as a Profession in
the Southern Region. The study adds
one more link in the chain of develop«
ing a systematic body of information for
a growing profession. 0 .

 

DR. WEATHERFORD is chairman of the
department of physical education and
recreation at North Carolina College at

Durham.

319

World Service

Through Recreation

.. Thomas E. Rivers

THE INTERNATIONAL RECREATION SERVICE of the National
Recreation Association is on the threshold of an era of
expanding service, the benefits of which will be felt increas-
ingly around the world.

Three years ago a quick exploratory trip in some thirteen
countries,* with emphasis upon the Orient, made clear to
us the tremendous opportunity for further development of
the life-enriching program which in America we call “rec-
reation.”

Careful study of the potentialities revealed and an inten-
sive period of work, with very limited funds, have resulted
in a program designed to lay solid foundations for a world-
wide recreation movement. We envision a development
where leaders in all lands will be conscious Of a bond of fel-
lowship among those who know the power of freeing and
nourishing the human spirit through creative use of leisure".

Let us not forget that now, Of all times in the world’s his-
tory, mankind’s dream Of freedom from soul-killing labor is
nearer realization than ever before. Leisure for all is now
an attainable goal. The use of this leisure for life enrich-
ment is the purpose Of the recreation movement.

The year 1955 has been a significant one in the progress
made. In this issue Of RECREATION it seems appropriate to
describe briefly some of the more important projects that are
in process and see them in relationship. More detailed de-
scriptions will follow in forthcoming issues.

National Advisory Committe for the International
Recreation Service

Listed on page 298 of this issue of RECREATION are the
names Of the members Of the National Advisory Committee
for the International Recreation Service. This broadly rep-
resentative professional group of American recreation lead-
ers is rendering a very helpful service to the international
recreation movement. Not only in the planning Of projects
but in their implementation these men and women Of world-
wide vision are giving devoted service. The way in which
their leadership is followed by the recreation leaders of the
nation augurs well for America’s contributions to interna-
tional recreation.

Cooperative Community Recreation Project

The COOperative Community Recreation Project proposed

-' ‘—_—» J-

"' See “A Global Look at Recreation,” by T. E. Rivers, RECREATION,
December 1952, January, February, and March 1953.

320

L.
'5
:5»...

\-
'V
"in.
H
5“:
III— ‘-
q.

’l. a’
my,

WW”! I"

I]: 

II
lll'

 

by the International Recreation Service to the U. S. Depart-
ment of State is now definitely planned. The outstanding
feature of the project was the magnificent response of the
recreation departments and other agencies to our request for
local hospitality for foreign visitors. Later a complete list
of cities Offering hospitality will be published.

High points of the plan:

0 Some fifteen or twenty top-level adminstrative officials
with park, recreation, adult education, or youth servide re-
sponsibility will be brought to America from the free nations
for a four-month period beginning June 1956.

o The State Department will provide transportation and
maintenance for the group before they begin their service
and observation in local communities.

0 Local recreation departments, with the cooperation and
backing Of other community groups, will serve as hosts and
provide board, room, and incidental expenses.

0 Each grantee will visit six communities selected to meet
his special interests and needs.

0 Grantees will be given several weeks Of intensive aca-
demic work in New York and Washington by the National
Recreation School and will complete their stay in America
by attending the International Recreation Congress in Phila-
delphia.

The International Recreation Service is deeply apprecia-
tive that the State Department has provided this Opportunity
for the recreation profession Of America to share its knowl-
edge and techniques and tO exchange information and ex-
perience with recreation leaders Of other lands.

Recreation is an important aspect of American life; and
knowledge of what it means to us in our families, churches,
industries, clubs, and communities will help foreign visitors
to understand us better and help us to know and appreciate
them more.

International Recreation Congress—1956

Plans for the International Recreation Congress in Phila-
delphia, September 30 to October 5, 1956, announced on
page 209 of the May 1955 issue Of RECREATION, are well
under way.

An international advisory committee of world leaders
under the chairmanship Of the Honorable Herbert Hoover,

 

THOMAS E. RIVERS is the executive secretary of the NRA
International Recreation Service.

RECREATION

former president of the United States, who served in a like
capacity at the First International Recreation Congress held
in 1932, is being formed. Program suggestions are being
sought from recreation agencies in other countries. Phila-
delphia is making preparations for receiving the delegations
expected from all parts of the world. This canand will be
a great occasion for the gathering together of those who will
exchange information and experience on the philosophy and
techniques of recreation service for their people. Let me
urge readers to make this congress known especially to rec-
reation friends in other lands. This is a voluntary gathering
of all who are interested—and all will be welcome. From
Philadelphia the course of international recreation for the
years ahead will be charted.

International Recreation Service
Projects for Japan

We are proud to announce two International Recreation
Service projects which we believe will have real significance
for the recreation movement in Japan.

Following the visit of the author and Mrs. Rivers as
guests of the National Recreation Association of Japan in
1952, a number of projects have been developed by that as-
sociation. New leadership has been enlisted and plans have
been laid for an enlarged service by the Japanese associa-
tion to its local units.

A new executive director, Goichi Matsubara, has been
selected to implement these plans. The International Rec-
reation Service offered to sponsor an intensive training and
observation period in the United States for him, and the offer
has been accepted by the Japanese association. The State
Department has agreed to bring Mr. Matsubara over under
the exchange program. So, for a period of six months, the
International Recreation Service, with the cooperation of
national agencies and local recreation departments in Ameri-
ca, will do all it can to make available to him ideas, informa-
tion, and material about our recreation that will be helpful
as he directs the development of recreation in Japan in the
years ahead.

The second project for Japan grew out of our visit there.
At that time we observed the phenomenal hold that folk
dancing had on the Japanese people. It had literally swept

through the entire nation. One of the greatest devotees was

His Royal Highness Prince Mikasa, honorary president of
the National Recreation Association of Japan. It was his
desire, and that of many Japanese leaders, that a team of
American folk dance specialists should come to Japan to put
on demonstrations, train Japanese leaders, and generally

help to enrich and broaden the whole program or folk danc-
ing as a recreation activity for the Japanese people. They
had heard and read about our leaders and specifically re-
quested that we try to arrange for certain ones to visit Japan.
Now, after three years, this dream is to be realized. It is
an excellent example of international cooperation. We pro-
posed that the American leaders volunteer their time, that
the Japanese association provide hospitality and all local
arrangements in Japan, and that the U. S. Department of
State provide transportation to and from Japan. This has
been accepted by all concerned. Details are being worked
out and Prince Mikasa’s request to the International Rec-
reation Service will be implemented when the team of spe-
cialists, comprised of Michael and Mary Ann Herman, Jane
Farwell, and Ralph Page, arrives in Japan next spring.

Invitations to Europe and the Middle East

And now another new and challenging opportunity has
opened up for our International Recreation Service. The
National Playing Fields Association of England and the Cen-
tral Council of Recreation invited the National Recreation
Association to send a representative to their national meet-
ing of local authorities in London in October as their guest.
The board of directors of the National Recreation Associa-
tion, in accepting the invitation, authorized the executive
secretary of the International Recreation Service to go and,
while abroad, to visit other countries in Europe and the
Middle East in the interest of deve10ping closer relations
among recreation agencies of the world. The vote was con-
ditional upon special funds being secured for the project.
Contributions were promptly pledged by a few friends of
the association and word was sent out of the proposed trip.
It has been an inspiring experience to have such warm invi-
tations and cordial offers of cooperation for this mission.

And so, in response to these messages of welcome from
all over Europe and many of the great new nations of the
Near East, the author and Mrs. Rivers will fly from New
York early in September on our second international rec-
reation mission.*

We are stirred and humble in the face of the great oppor-
tunity for service that lies ahead. But we go with confidence
knowing that it continues the traditional spirit of working
with other nations that has characterized the National Rec-
reation Association since its beginning. We also know we
take with us the backing and hopes of a large and strong
body‘ of professional recreation leaders and educators who
want to be counted in the cause of peace, without which
leisure cannot Hourish nor the human spirit really be free.

. C C C C C C O O C O C C C C C O O . ‘0 O C C O C
. *Countries to be Visited .
. Norway England France Yugoslavia Iran .
O , C
. Sweden ' Germany Spam Italy Iraq .
. Finland Belgium Switzerland . Greece Jordon - . 
. Denmark Holland Austria Turkey Egypt .
coo...00000000000000.6000 

SEPTEMBER 1955

321

 

IN SPEAKING on the “Theory of School
Design: The School Building in Its
Context,” at the Indiana and Midwest
School Building Conference in 1954,
Richard Neutra' says:

“The school of the future will greatly
regain prestige and attractiveness in the
eyes of children when the place and
its activities are suffused by the pleasur-
able atmosphere of common participa-
tion of all age groups. Learning is no
longer an isolated chore for defenseless
children cloistered with their taskmas-
ters. It may sound provocative to class-
room persons and administrators, but
ways may be found to deepen the edu-
cational impact of schools of all grades
by demonstrating that they are not
strictly the domain of the “under-aged”
but are the heart of the neighborhood,
intimately dear to grownups and full-
Hedged taxpayers.

“As in the days of pioneers and their
homesteads, children may perhaps
again come to share spaces and facili-
ties with adults. In many cases they
may proudly act side by side, helping to
serve a common purpose together with
the naturally admired adults. In past
periods the young ones have profited
from this, mentally and‘emotionally. Ul-
timately, there may be found a way to
have craft shops for all-stables, sties,

* Mr. Neutra is an internationally famous
architect, housing expert, city planner, and
author of Survival Through Design, a book of
essays published by Oxford University Press,
1954. $5.50.

a sort of farmyard to engage in animal
husbandry, a green nursery to practice
garden craft... . .

“Of course, small children will have
their suitable play equipment and pic—
ture-book library wing. But the play
fields, the library, the hall for physical
education and square dances, as well as
the cafeteria and the health center, may
perhaps be developed as a good mani-
fold investment for the multiple usage
of all the age groups, mixed at times and
segregated at other times. This means
that the janitor’s work multiplies.

“School planning for the future
should not lose sight of the obviously
fore-shadowed neighborhood centers
which now are predicted as a certainty.
Many-sided cooperation will be needed
in an age of departmentalization, but
the school board will and ought to have
a leading position in such a develop-
ment.

“All more intimate communal and
recreational facilities of a neighbor-
hood will naturally exfoliate from the
school, the kindergarten, or the nursery,
where mothers congregate to' discuss
diets in the demonstration kitchen or
wearing apparel in the sewing room. . . .

“The assembly space, the auditorium,
the band rehearsal room, and the exhi-
bition hall where acoustical and visual
appeals to the community will be in
perpetual preparation by well-guided
amateurs; the discussion club and play-
rooms, where all neighborhood issues

will find their lively hatching place, may

equally serve many purposes of adoles-
cent and adult after-work activities.

“The entire plant of the future neigh-
borhood center, with school facilities as
its nucleus, used most hours of the day
and all days of the year, may well be
tested and proved by square-foot hours
of full usage. This will serve as the liva-
bility index of the layout. It may great-
ly help toward a willingness to vote for

bonds and funds. . . .

“Plenty of human charm and human
scale will be needed. Wherever possi-
ble, a one-story layout with various
green courts, lovely landscaped wind-
sheltered patios, and connecting cov-
ered walks may prove more flexible for
partial modifications and also more eco-
nomical to construct than a fireproof,
multi-story, voluminously boxed-togeth-
er affair. . . .

“The physical structures of schools
must further the trend to emphasize-and
permeate or reward cooperation rather
than competition.'. . . A coordinated
muscular and sensory activity will call
for flexible grouping of humans as well
as of furniture, so as to adjust the edu-
cational environment to varied and fre-
quent concerted efforts. A very gradual

progress may be needed.” 0

From Indiana and Midwest School Building
Planning Conference: Proceedings, Septem-
ber and November 1954, published by the Di"
vision of Research and Field Services, Indiana
University.

 

INVESTMENT

A wealthy man was in the garage one day with his small
son, working on histcar; The boy watched with interest.

“Papa!” he said at last. “You have to work hard on your
car and that takes a lot of time. But you have to do these
things yourself. The chauffeur couldn’t do them?”

“That’s right, Son,” said his father, who at the moment
was thinking of anything but his young son. “Y:ou see, this
car is for me a very important investment. If i don’t take
care of it myself, it will quickly lose its value. No one will
be as careful with it as I myself am.. That makes it worth
the time and effort it takes.” '

322

For a long time after that there was complete silence in
the garage. Then a shy and rather sad little voice broke in,
“Then aren’t I an investment?” With a start, his father
looked into the slightly moist eyes of his little son, “And
why not, my boy?”

“Because you never have any- time for me.”

The car was finished before too long, and that evening
the man put aside a book he was going to read because
“everybody was reading it.” He spent the entire evening
playing with an overjoyed little boy. When the lad was in
bed, he read him a fine story.———Cemeindebote, Vienna.

RECREATION

The training of teachers and coun-
selors in an actual camp situation.

THERE are 429 camps and 120,356 campers in Pennsyl—
vania, according to Robert E. McBride’s study, Camping
at the M id-Century, published by the American Camping As-
sociation in 1953. The placement service of the Pennsylvania
State University has had over 1,500 requests for summer
camp personnel during the spring semester of 1954-. With
such a demand for professional leaders in camp counseling
and outdoor education, the recreation curriculum of the
College of Physical Education and Athletics of the univer-
sity assumed the responsibility for preparing professional
personnel.

Under ideal conditions counselors and teachers of out-
door education should be trained in a bona fide organized
camp which is in operation with campers present. However,
this method is impossible in most places, including Penn
State, as the university and the camps are not in operation
at the same time, except during the summer session. Thus,
recognizing the need for fewer lectures on camping in the
classroom atmosphere and more exposure to the realities of
camp environment, a “primitive camp” was constructed by
students on campus.

It was developed in Hort Woods, the last remaining wood-
lot in this expanding state institution of approximately
12,000 students. Since no timber could be cut in Hort Woods,
permission was secured from the College of Agriculture to cut
saplings in the college farm woodlot, and then to transport
them to the campus site. The central location of the camp,
just in rear of the main library, gave the students an op-
portunity to use it frequently for reference and observation.
The camp served to teach counselors and teachers the neces-
sary skills for camping and outdoor living and to provide a
place for practice of these skills. The area proved to be a
model laboratory and a standing example of camping at its

best.
The primitive camp demonstration area was a setting for

camping programs based on certain living experiences in
the out—of—doors. The structures, illustrated on the next
pages, were not of a permanent nature so that the camp had
a degree of mobility.

The shelter area featured a tepee which was decorated as

 

DR. COOMBS is in charge of the recreation education curricu-
lum, College of Physical Education and Athletics, Pennsyl-
vania State University.

SEPTEMBER 1955

Fred M. Coomhs

 

Totem pole added to the Indian atmosphere in har-
mony with other camp structures. Design was painted,
protruding parts cut separately, glued on a cedar log. n

Indians decorated their lodges, in the old days, with strange
gods and magical animals. As a shelter, it proved not only
colorful but satisfactory. Learning the proper method of
erecting various other shelters—the forester, baker, covered
wagon‘, lean-to, and explorer tents—was also included.

The outdoor kitchen represented an essential area in
campcraft. Demonstrations were conducted of the methods
of cooking food with a variety of fires. Other kitchen equip-
ment which was constructed included cupboard for dishes,
tincan craft, oriole cache, peeled-stick cache, .and cupboard
cache. Among additional cooking devices were camp cranes,
pot hooks, Indian waugan-sticks,* Chippewa kitchens, tables
and benches.

The ax yard included ax sharpening, chopping block, hori-
zontal block for splitting and chopping, crotch-block for
splitting, an untrimmed tree for practice of branching tech-

* Waugan-sticks, wambecks, spygelias, sasters—call them what you
will—are pot-hangers for holding a single pot. According to the In-
dians up in Maine they are chiplok-waugans or kitchiplok-waugans
—Which is where the name waugan-sticks came from.——-F.M.C.

323

 

nique, for the perfe(

      

4"?  ii i The knot craft ar
e , {x‘ . ‘ COOKING ON A ROCK. How many basic skills for cox
x ', _ 7- k . I. students ever heard of cooking eggs Lashing was emphas
_—‘~ ~‘ ‘ . . this way? Many other Interesting . . .
. . and instructive projects like this can 0f Halls: spared llVln;
, ,0, be worked into need. of providing was easy to dismantle
: food. Demonstrations included cook- Th d.
. x -‘ " ing food in log reflector fire, bean- e pathfin lng ‘
hole, hunter-trapper, and altar fire. compass, map readil
THE TEPEE. Painting figures of strange gods

provided opportunities to study Indian lore. an undeveloped sect“
Tepee made colorful, satisfactory shelter. The Atwo-hundred-foots
course included ways of erecting other shelters. and numbered poles

for compass courses.
To complete the
were signal tower, 1i]:
ture museum, buddy
rack, andllatrines.
The primitive cam]
resented a model 131
of camp counselors
the course is edueat
learning is largely by
simple and direct.

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 

a
i.

THE LASHING TA
was stressed with 1
types of methods:
continuous. A ror
discovered to be a d(

AX AND TOOL YARD. Demonstrations

and practice in handling, sharpening, use
and care of tools and ax opened up new
avenues of activities for camp erafters as

they put their new-found ability to use.

 
    
   
    
 
 

TAUT LINE HITCH. Practice in the

basic skills included knoteraft, using
knot- and hitch-tying posts and rails
and demonstrations of lasllings. This
provided the skill necessary for the
construction of camp equipment, a
vital outdoors learning experience.

  
   
   
   
   
   
  

skill in handling.
-1g area provided
n of equipment.
t avoided the use
[1 the area, and it
rctures.

teaching use of
map making was
8 edge of the site.
se was established
as starting points

18 camping area
is and crafts, na-
canoe and paddle

[stration area rep-
' for the training

thers. We believe

ound because the
and seeing—it is

-.kill in lashing
ms of various
diagonal, and
mg device was
:nancial saving.

9'!

 

WEATHER STATION. This was con-
structed in simple but effective fash-
ion. To help the forecaster in as-
sembling the data for this important
daily report, weathervane and flags,
wet-and-dry bulb thermometer,

Q .

 

clouds, charts, and aneroid barome- ' - ‘
ter were used and carefully studied.

OBSERVATION TOWER. Lashing the struc-

tures together made for easier dismantling.
Since Structures were not permanent in nature,

they gave the camp a fair degree of mobility.

   
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
   
   
   
     
 
   
   
     
   
     

CABIP LIBRARY. Charts, books and pam-
phlets, and other pertinent information,
came into the open and were always near
at hand for convenient reference and
study. Area proved to be niodel laboratory.

THE OUTDOOR KITCHEN. Altar

lire cooking is practiced here. Con-
struction of kitchen equipment in-
cluded tincraft, a cupboard for
dishes. Among other cooking devices
used in camp were pothooks and
crane. Dining table is off to right.

   

Citizen Participation -
SCHOOL

BUILDING

BLANN

._."‘
i

\1'...’
a x
'<- l
->.
I.

N. L. Engelhardt, Sr.

Recreation agencies can benefit from the experience
of school authorities in enlisting citizen participa-
tion in the development of school building plans.
Here, an outstanding educational consultant offers
suggestions that can readily be applied to advantage
in recreation planning.

LAY CITIZEN committees have, in the past few years, played
an increasingly important part in assisting boards of
education to plan their new school buildings. This is a most
encouraging development. The movement represents a
wholesome and significant growth in the democratic proc-
esses. Such committees, chosen as cross-sections of the
communities’ populations, have rendered effective service
in the making of school building surveys, in analyses of
their communities, in study of the curriculum, in the integra-
tion of school and recreation programs, and in organizing
themselves for presentation of all the issues of a building
campaign to their fellow citizens. Such lay participation

has added to the success of programs which otherwise might
have been defeated.

Integration of Public School Planning with Other
Community Planning

Today, school buildings, like recreation facilities, cost
more on any acceptable unit basis than ever before in our
national history. There are limits to the amounts that com—
munities can and probably should expend for the common
good. Economy and reasonableness in such eXpenditures
can come from comprehensive studies of the needs in all
areas and the integration of subsequent planning. The best

 

N. L. ENGELHARDT is senior partner of Engelhardt, Engel-
hardt and Leggett, educational consultants, New York.

326

Model of San Francisco’s Sunset Community Center.
It is an outstanding example of what coordinated ac-
tion for schools, parks and recreation, city planning
can do. Wurster, Bernardi and Emmons, architects.

results are secured when certain principles are accepted as
the bases for action. The following are suggested:

1. All planning will be in terms of a well-defined and
approved community pattern.

2. All sections of the entire community will be accorded
equal treatment in all areas of need.

3. Duplication in the provision of facilities and the ex-
penditure of public monies will be avoided.

4. The underlying philosophies and aims of each separate
community program will be made clearly known to all.

5. The legally constituted authorities for each public
service will solicit lay participation in all steps from inter-
pretation of needs to the conclusion of projects.

Underlying Theses of School Building Planning

The provision of educational facilities follows a rather
well-defined process which is not unlike what should be fol-
lowed in other branches of community activity. Here are
some of these theses:

l. The strength of our nation rests upon local participa-
tion in setting up the underlying theses according to which
public education should be advanced.

2. Planning a school should be based on a clearly defined
philosophy of education. Citizens’ groups, teacher groups,
and the legally constituted boards of control with their ad-
ministrative officers should be given their share of responsi-
bility in defining such a philosophy.

3. The elevation of a community’s status through com-
plete utilization of the manifold resources of public educa-

tion is a desirable objective to be considered as new school
building plans are being drawn.

4. Any development of a school building, the need and
location of which have not been fixed initially through the
agency of a community school building survey, may become
in the long run a wasteful and unnecessarily costly venture.

RECREATION

5. The future as well as present success in school build-
ing development rests in increasingly greater degree, as com-
munities grow, upon the adequacy of school sites. Where-
ever such sites can serve other needs, such as those of recrea-
tion, plans should be made accordingly. 7».

6. Schools should be thought of as community facilities
in which adults and children may be equally served and the
community desires in music, drama, and the creative arts,
as well as recreation, may be satisfied.

7. A school building is not ust another professional com-
mission for planners. It comes from the toil and sweat of
many. It represents human aspirations and faith in the on-
coming generations. Here are bared the hopes of parents
for their children and the high aims of the community.

8. Planning a school building is a cooperative enterprise.
Teachers and citizens, architects and educators, parents, and
even their children, participate through discussion and con-
ference, present their ideas, learn the facts about costs, dis-
cover the whys and wherefores of decisions, and contribute
to the dream which some day becomes a reality.

Participants in School Building Planning

In most areas of the country all school building decisions
center in the board of education. In New England, school
building committees, specially designated as such in town
meetings, bear much of this responsibility. The accompany-
ing circular chart illustrates the relationship of the board
of education to all the other agencies or forces which may
be expected to assist at one or more stages of the planning
processes. Many communities have secured the best results
and enjoyed the greatest satisfactions where experts and
laymen shared experiences and worked harmoniously in the
satisfaction of local needs.

 

At What Planning Stage Do Citizens Serve?

The answer to this question is “at each and every stage.”
Citizens at Lynbrook, Long Island, enjoyed participation
in the initial survey and are serving in the provision of
needed school facilities.

SEPTEMBER 1955

F

In Great Neck, Long Island, citizen and teacher commit-
tees assisted in acting on such problems as site determina-
tion, the professional program of educational and commu-
nity requirements for new buildings, the issue covering
swimming pools in the schools, and details of space plan-
ning in new structures.

In East Williston, Long Island, citizen committees aided
significantly in planning the stage and its equipment, and
in recommendations on the cafeteria of the new high school
as well as in an advisory capacity on many other of the im-
portant phases of giving a community its first high school.

In San Francisco, California, the Sunset Community Cen-
ter* is an outstanding example of what oint action within
a city can produce. This center is a joint undertaking of the
board of education, the recreation and park department, and
the health department. Here forty-three acres are being
shared by these three departments to realize the American
dream of a community center serving the needs of all age-
levels. Centrally located in a sea of homes is this site for the
Sunset Community Center. The early foresight used in set-
ting apart this area for the center has saved the community
much money and made possible the rounding out of this
community planning.

In Charlotte, North Carolina, coordination of planning
with public and private large-scale housing authorities, with
city planning, and with citizens’ groups, has led to one of
the outstanding over-all educational sets of school facilities
to be found in the country.

In North Kansas City, Missouri, the foresight of the city
fathers and the board of education in the advance selection
of well-located sites for parks and schools, has resulted in
economy and assuredly a better coordinated community.

In Somers, Connecticut, a small but growing residential
center, the combined action of school committee and ad-
visory citizens has brought purchase of, and wide satisfac-
tion over, a one-hundred-acre site which protects education '
for decades ahead.

Citizen Organization.

How best to organize citizens for action on school or other
community projects is always a question. There is probably
no one single pattern that fits all places. The chart to be
followed locally is best prepared locally. To show a possible
organization for a school building publicity campaign, the
writer has set up a chart ** indicating the wide range of pos-
sible enlistments into this type of community service. Simi-
lar types of organizations may well be charted for other com-
munity programs. The general basis for selection should be
(a) competence in a special field, (b) willingness to work
hard and long without monetary returns, (c) a cooperative
attitude, and (d) a desire to grow intellectually as well as
socially.

Such citizen participation as here discussed certainly re-
sults in better communities, better schools, better recreation
opportunities, and better citizens in general: 0 i

* See RECREATION magazine, June 1953, page 167.

I""‘See School Building Handbook for School Boards, School Execu-
tives, and School Architects. N. L. Engelhardt, Sr., N. L. Engelhardt,

Jr., and Stanton Leggett (with collaborators). F. W. Dodge Corpora-
tion, 119 West 40th Street,‘ New York 18, N. Y., 1955. (In press.)

327

 

WHAT is the Role of the School
in RECREATION?

Milton A. Gabrielsen

ONE OF THE most significant developments in public
school education in the United States has been the in-
creasing attention given by school administrators to the
problem of providing recreation opportunities and experi-
ences for school-age children. In many instances, this inter-
est has extended to the whole community in the form of
of school-sponsored recreation programs for all ages.

For years, education has accepted as one of its objectives
the need for educating people in the proper use of their
leisure time. Yet, it is doubtful whether education gener-
ally has come close to the realization of this objective. Part
of the fault lies with the failure of teachers of subject areas
to recognize the potentials of their subjects as leisure-time
activities. This situation could be improved by the intro-
duction, at the teacher-training level, of courses interpreting
the implications of leisure for education and by a careful
analysis of each subject area to discover its potential con-
tribution as a leisure-time activity.

Student interest has been a major motivation in the de-
velopment of extracurricular programs in schools. This in-
terest first gave rise to the varsity sports program, which
was followed by student clubs in such interest areas as
music, dramatics, art, foreign languages, science, history,
sports. The intramural sports program followed, to round
out the so-called “extracurricular” or “student activities”
program. These activities, along with class dances, social
activities, student publications, and lunch hour programs
in reality make up the school recreation program — most
commonly termed the “student activities” program. “Is
this not adequate?” asks the school board. “If we offer
more, we are just taking additional time away from the
student’s study and home responsibilities.”

Many schools today are being pressured for greater use
of their facilities by community agencies, such as the scouts,
Little League, church groups, municipal recreation, depart-
ments, and others. Some parents and students demand that
schools provide more recreation opportunities for students
after school and evenings.

In general, the arguments of the community for such

DR. MILTON A. GABRIELSEN is associate professor of educa-
tion and coordinator of recreation and camping in the
School of Education at New York University. '

328

student recreation services can be summed up as follows:

“Few community agencies, if any, conduct programs for
teen-agers, particularly social activities in which they are
really interested.”

“The schools possess the best facilities in the community
for recreation.”

“We pay taxes in support of the schools; therefore, why
should we not have greater use of the facilities which now
stand idle in the late afternoon and evening?”

“Our teen-agers have no place to go which they can call
their own; hence, they get in their hot rods and take off for
the next town. We have to find something for them to do
here in order to keep them from getting into trouble.”

These are only a few of the external stimuli. The intro-
duction of adult education into school programs has led to
the concept of the “community-centered school” and the
“community college.” With the emergence of these pro-
grams, school boards and administrators are confronted
with new problems. How should they react to these pres-
sures? How should they determine their responsibilities
for recreation? What is the school’s role in these related
areas?

In finding satisfactory answers to these and other ques-
tions, the school board must decide first whether or not it
should expand its recreation program. In case the answer
is “yes,” it must determine what should be done and the best
procedure for doing it. A detailed consideration of all the
factors involved would require more space than is permitted
for this article. However, certain procedures may be sug-
gested, based on the experience of numerous school districts.
The final decision on each question will of necessity rest
with local school authorities. No rigid or infallible set of
procedures is applicable to all communities.

One danger to avoid in initiating a school recreation pro-
gram is duplication or overlapping with existing community
programs. The school program should supplement, not
duplicate, such programs.

Among the questions a school board needs to consider
before it decides to expand its recreation program are the
following:

What specifically is the need for additional recreation pro-
grams and opportunities for children in our community?

Local needs are best determined by a study of local con-
ditions, such as: "

RECREATION

1. Existing community programs serving school-age chil-
dren (types of programs and numbers served).

2. Available‘recreation facilities in the community other
than school facilities.

3. The incidence of juvenile delinquency, both police re-
corded and not involving police intervention.

4. An indication of the eXpressed desire of youth for rec-
reation and their preferences for certain types of activities.

5. The attitude of the adult population, particularly par-
ents, towards the needs of children for organized recreation
programs.

The above information is best secured by a recreation ad-
visory committee made up of faculty members, interested
parents, and representatives of local recreation and youth-
serving agencies. Various sub-committees should seek data
relative to the above questions.*

What are the basic objectives of recreation and how com-
patible are they with the goals of education?

A comparison of the objectives of recreation and the goals
of education will reveal that they are quite similar. Both
are concerned with the development of the individual as well
as of our democratic society. The essential difference ap-
pears in the method of accomplishment. Education is large-
1y formal, while recreation involves freedom of choice with
respect to both activities and participation. There are nu-
merous sources which one may turn to for information on
the objectives of education and recreation.

What is the school’s legal authority to establish and oper-
ate a recreation program? What are the liability implica-
tions?

The school laws in most states permit local school districts
to conduct recreation programs on school property. The ex-
tent of this legal jurisdiction must be determined by local
school officials before they can proceed to establish a pro-
gram. State departments of education are usually the best
source of information on the interpretation of the law.

How can a school-sponsored recreation program be
nuanced, and what is considered to be a normal operating
budget?

N 0 separate financing of recreation is necessary when the
program involves only school-age youngsters, as the cost
is considered a part of the“ school budget. Leadership cost
should be a part of the instructional budget and the main-
tenance budget would undoubtedly be increased to provide
additional service after school and evenings and to meet
the added cost of utilities. Elements of a recreation budget
are: leadership, maintenance of facilities and equipment,
and, in some instances, transportation.

The amount of the annual budget depends on the extent
and type of program and the number of leaders. A normal
budget for a typical year-round program, exclusive of main-
tenance costs, could be established on the basis of $2.50 per
school-age child. Thus, a district with a school population
of 5,000 would have an annual budget of $12,500.

In case it has been determined that the school board is
the best agency to serve a community’s current recreation

"' The writer has copies of check lists and questionnaire forms
which he will be glad to send to anyone desiring them.

SEPTEMBER 1955

needs, the board must consider such questions as:

What kind of activities should make up the program?

In the selection of activities for the recreation program,
the following criteria should be used:

1. Do activities stem from the interests of students?

2. Are they educationally sound and can they be con-
ducted with a reasonable degree of safety?

3. Is there a close relationship between the regular school
program and the recreation program?

4. Is proper leadership available to supervise activity?

There is hardly any limit to the type of activities which
may be offered by the recreation program. Complete flexi-
bility should prevail. Activities which are not well received
should be discontinued. A general concept guidin'g program
planners is that “recreation programs should provide a cafe-
teria of opportunities.” When there is a chance for wide
choice of activities, it can be assumed that the greatest num-
ber of youngsters will be served.

The lack of emphasis by school personnel on “carry
over activities” definitely affects the type of recreation
program to be conducted. Community recreation
leaders are constantly confronted with either teaching
fundamentals and then gradually progressing to in-
formal play or abandoning many worthwhile activities.
—DR. SAL J. PREZIOSO, Superintendent of Recreation,
Scarsdale, New York, in an address, “The Physical

Educator and Recreation Superintendent — Their

Problems,” before the southwestern zone meeting of
the New York State Association for Health, Physical
Education, and Recreation, New York, March 1955.

How should the problem of grade, age, and sex diherences
be handled?

The activities should allow for the age differences of chil-
dren. The program for elementary-age children should be
more limited in scope than that planned with the junior-
senior high school group. The recreation activities of young
children should center more around the home than school.
A Saturday program during the school year and a summer
playground program are considered most appropriate for
this age group. This does not imply that recreation activi-
ties should not be included during the school day, the lunch
hour, and recess periods.

Junior and senior high school students will want to do
some things together; however, because of the extreme vari-
ances in their maturity, strength, and interest, most activities
are best conducted separately. Thus, dances and certain
sports, because of their nature and level of skill, should be
held separately for junior and senior high school youngsters.
The operating policy should be flexible enough to provide
for borderline cases.

Many activities should be coeducational; however, sport
activities such as basketball, baseball, and weightlifting do
not lend themselves to such participation.

During what time of the day should the program be in
operation?

Normally, the recreation program is concentrated in the
after-school period. The problem of traveling to andrfrom
the school at night, as well as the distance some students
must travel, militates against an extensive evening program.

329

At schools providing adult-education programs, which in-
variably are conducted at night, conflicts between the two
programs are possible. Therefore, greatest emphasis of the
recreation program should be on after-school, Friday night,
and Saturday activities. Occasionally, an evening program
during the week may be scheduled, particularly if the ac-
tivity involves parents as well as youngsters. For example,
a father-and-son night in the shop might prove to be ex-
tremely popular with both the dad and the youngster.

The summer playground program runs approximately two
to three hours in the morning and two to three hours in the
afternoon. Occasionally late afternoon and twilight activi-
ties for older youth are desirable. Where many boys be-
tween the ages of fourteen and seventeen are employed dur-
ing the summer, the recreation program should accommo-
date these youngsters in the late afternoon or early evening.

What kind of leadership is necessary for administration,
supervision, and instruction?

N 0 program will succeed without effective leadership. Too
many schools have looked upon the recreation program as
something nice to give the coach or physical education di-
rector as a supplemental responsibility. No person can divide
his interest and be equally effective in both areas. With the
great variety of activities normally contained in the recrea—
tion program, such as music, dramatics, shop activities, na-
ture activities, homemaking, and sports, the leadership se-
lected to direct it should have a breadth of understanding
of the inherent value of recreation, ability to plan, and skill
in a variety of activities.

The amount of planning, the need for frequent visits to
program areas, meetings with school officials, and the need
for coordination of the use of school facilities makes the
job of the recreation director a full-time responsibility.
School systems possessing a student enrollment in excess
of two thousand should probably have a qualified full-time
director or coordinator of recreation. Part-time leadership
for instruction and supervision should come from the school
staff. However, it is folly to assume that, since a person is
a vocational education expert he is automatically capable of
contributing effectively to the recreation program. The spe-
cialist in a particular field needs guidance as to recreation
objectives and desired outcomes. Thus, a recreation pro-
gram carried on in the woodworking shop would differ
greatly from the formal manual training program.

Recently, several state education departments have recog-
nized the need for specialization in recreation and have cre-
ated certification requirements for recreation leadership em-
ployed full time by local schools.

How can the proposed recreation program be coordinated
with the regular school program in general and with the
present extracurricular program in particular?

The multiple demands on both children and school facili-
ties by the numerous out-of—school programs indicates the
need for careful coordination. Responsibility for this co-
ordination should be given to a school staff member to whom
has been delegated authority to act for the best interests of
both the children and community. This person might be the
assistant superintendent of schools in a large system, or a

330

coordinator for recreation, who devotes full time to the ad-
ministration and supervision of all recreation activities con-
ducted on school property.

Regardless of where the responsibility is fixed, effective
coordination can take place only when people work together
and subscribe to the basic concept that all aspects of the ed-
ucation program, both formal and informal, must be de-
signed to meet the needs of children in particular and society
in general.

To coordinate successfully the school recreation activities
a “recreation committee” should be established, composed
of teachers representing various extracurricular areas, the
recreation coordinator, and a representative group of stu-
dents. The student group should meet independently in ad-
dition to meeting with the faculty committee.

What is the most desirable organizational structure for
administration of a school-sponsored recreation program?

In many school systems the recreation program is a part
of the physical education and health department. In small
school systems where the responsibility for coordination and
direction is not considered a full-time job, its assignment
to the physical education department may be expedient.
However, in large schools and school systems the most ef-
fective organization for recreation is an independent de-
partment. In a community or school district where more
than one schOol is involved the recreation director should be
on the supervisor level and report directly to the superin-
tendent of schools.

How can the transportation problem of children who must
travel to and from the school in buses be solved so that they
also may participate in the recreation program?

Where only three or four bus routes are involved the prob-
lem is less perplexing than where there are a dozen routes.
Each situation differs; thus the problem will have to be
solved locally. Here are a few suggestions:

1. Delay departure of some buses going similar routes.

2. Have certain buses make two trips.

3. Consolidate two or more routes into one for a late de-
parture using more central discharge points to facilitate
travel time.

Under any plan the transportation of students for recrea-
tion costs money; nevertheless, it is an important expendi-
ture if all children are to be given an opportunity to partici-
pate.

W hat cooperation is needed between the school recreation
program and other community programs conducted for the
children and youth?

The board of education should invite representatives of
public and private agencies in the community to meet pe-
riodically with school officials to discuss the problem and
exchange ideas. This group may be permanently established,
meeting regularly to aid the school in its plans.

School recreation is here to stay. It is not a new fad or
frill. It is as much a part of the education program as any
subject matter. All school systems sooner or later will be
confronted with this problem. Now is the time for local
communities and school districts to begin to study their rec-

reation needs. 0

RECREATION

ommunity Cooperation

in Solving a Neighborhood
Playground Problem

Felix K. Dhainin

MINNEAPOLIS is noted for its fine
parks and recreation system —
well-balanced and well-distributed
throughout the city. However, it must
not be assumed that our problems are
all solved and our system is ideal in
every respect. Our continuing effort,
from a standpoint of both facilities and
program, has been to try to keep up
with the leisure-time needs of the more
than half a million people in our city.

There are still certain sections of our
city that do not have adequate service or
facilities, such as the southeast district.
This area is fairly close to the down-
town Minneapolis Loop and is adjacent
to what is known as the east side shop-
ping center. It is an older section and,
by and large, is zoned for single, multi-
ple, and apartment house dwellings,
commercial and some industrial use.

Past studies by the city planning com-
mission and other municipal agencies,
as well as a very active improvement as-
sociation within the district, have at-
tempted to retain and stabilize its
values. It has many desirable character-
istics as a location in which to live, par-
ticularly through its closeness to the
loop area, to industrial areas, and to the
University of Minnesota campus.

Our department has studied, for
many years, the solution to the leisure-
time needs of this community and has
always come up with an indication of
the need for acquisition of lands for de-
velopment of a playground to serve this
section. However, analysis of cost and
development showed that these factors
were abnormally high, and it never

FELIX K. DHAININ, landscape architect-
administrative, Board of Park Commis-
sioners, Minneapolis, Minnesota, is re-
sponsible for park board planning.

SEPTEMBER 1955

 

. q—— 4.

° “ \ . '02» I,
‘ n

0

 

ti

 F .‘ " H" ‘- '

This view of the Holmes Park Playground shows location of the
shelter building, partly completed, new ten-inch tree planted in the
spring of 1955, general enclosed play area and winter skating rink.

seemed possible to carry out our recom-
mendation.

Circumstances and proper planning
had a great deal to do with the ultimate
solution for these problems. Many years
ago (1939) we were able to acquire a
playground (area three and seven-
tenths acres) on the edge of this neigh-
borhood for a relatively small fee and
to develop it with WPA funds. We al-
ways realized that this waS‘not a good
location as it was adjacent to a factory,
but, through want of a better solution,
we accepted it on a transitory basis.

Two or three years ago, the industrial
company located adjacent to this play-
ground expressed a desire to expand
their facilities. It was a matter of hav-
ing the room to expand their business
at this location or finding another lo-
cation where more room was available,
perhaps out of town. We suggested that
the company purchase the site we
owned — a suggestion they accepted.
This was the start in the direction of de-
ve10ping more adequately-located rec-

reation facilities for this area.

Our department got in touch with the
civic and improvement association,
whose primary objective is improving
the conditions of this part 'of the city,
and described to them our proposal of
selling the original playground and pur-
chasing a new site, and asked for their
support in this project. We knew that
the funds secured from the sale of the
original site would not be sufficient to
acquire the needed land at the new site
or to finance the cost of development;
therefore, we suggested to this group
that the additional funds be secured
through a general city-wide bond issue
and’ through a special assessment
against the neighborhood that would be
benefited directly by this new play-
ground.

The support of the improvement as-
sociation made it possible to secure the
needed signatures of fifty per cent of
the neighborhood, on a petition, indi-
cating that they would be willing to
stand a special assessment for the de-

331

 

EAST MINNEAPOLIS
SHOPPING DISTRICT

  
  

velopment of a playground. With all of
these factors correlated and coordi-
nated, it was possible for us to go ahead
with our plan of development.

Another agency was involved in this
matter—our Minneapolis Board of Ed-
ucation. Our proposed playground was
located ad acent to an elementary
school. Consultation with the board of
education indicated that this school
would be in use for many years to come,
and they were in complete agreement
with our establishment of a playground
adjacent to the school. We also ar-
ranged to secure from the board of ed-
ucation an old school site of one acre-—
the Elwell sites—for a park playlot.

The accompanying district map,
showing the general location of the
neighborhood and the Holmes Park
Playground and the Elwell Playlot, in-
dicates our ultimate solution to the
neighborhood recreation problem for
this community. Holmes Park Play-
ground, adjacent to Holmes Elementary

THE FIGHT FOR LAND

FORMER PLAYGROUND SITE

-5OLD FOR IN DU STRIAL
1-..EXPANSION

\Nousrmm. PLANT

\- "N":

School, called for the vacating of Third
Avenue Southeast, separating the school
property from the park property. Our
program headquarters will be at the
playground, with some intermittent
service provided at the playlot.

The playground, in conjunction.with
the school, will be used jointly by the
board of park commissioners and the
board of education. Facilities to be in-
stalled by the park department include
an active play area which will be used
for winter sports activities such as skat-
ing, and for ballplaying and active play
in the summer. It will be hard-surfaced
and will be'enclosed by a fence in order
that the balls and the youngsters will
not go out into the street.

A small shelter building will contain
toilet facilities, storage, heater-room,
office for personnel, and a shelter room
which will be Open in the summer and
enclosed in the winter. Playground
equipment such as swings, slides, teeter-
totters, sandbox, and other similar units

will be enclosed. A thirty- by fifty-foot
wading pool, meeting all state health
requirements, will be installed. The
hard-surfaced play area will be lighted
for volleyball, basketball, and so on.

Lawn areas are to be retained to en-
hance the appearance of the whole proj-
ect. These can be used for settees and
picnic tables for the older-age group,
particularly those interested in card
playing. The plan also shows possible
future acquisition, which would round
out the block and give us additional
space for needed play areas.

At the Elwell Playlot our proposal
calls for a small area, and it is our first
actual eXperiment in the city as far as
this type of development is concerned.
We are not entirely sure that it will
function properly, but it is our hope
that it will be used primarily by the
youngsters as it is not designed for
adults or teen-age groups. We may find
difficulty in supervising it in future
years but it was one way of solving the
recreation problems of this section and,
at the same time, experimenting with the
practicability of playlot development.

This whole project has been a lesson
in cooperative planning; and, without
the earnest and sincere desire of all par-
ticipating in the project, it could well
have bogged down at any stage of the
negotiations. However, a brief article
of this kind cannot go into details and
ramifications of the number of meet-
ings held, the number of groups to be
convinced of the need for the project,
and other similar factors that were nec-
essary to carry it to ultimate fruition.

We are very happy to report at this

time that the project will be completed
in 1955. 0

land needed for parks to balance the budget.”

. In New York City in July, Park Commissioner Robert
Moses, who battles continuously for more park land for the
crowded metropolis, lost out in the fight for Rockaway
Beach prOperty. The Board of Estimate disapproved a reso-
lution to turn over the site of the abandoned city-owned
Neponsit Beach Hospital for development as a greatly need-
ed extension of Jacob Riis Park. Controller Lawrence E.
Cerosa and five borough presidents voted against it. It
was estimated that the property would bring at least $1,000,-
000 if sold at public auction and restored to the tax rolls.
According to the New York Herald Tribune of July 22,
Mr. Moses referred to Mr. Gerosa as “the first Controller in
my memory to claim that the city has to sell publicly owned

332

In the New York Times, July 24, Mr. Cerosa stated: “Con-
trary to whatever opinion you may have of the chief at-
traction in the Rockaways, in my humble opinion it is not
the Moses-made parks and beaches but the God-created At-
lantic Ocean and the eternal cool breezes which were there
before Riis Park was developed and will be there long after.”

Mr. Moses replied in a letter to Mr. Gerosa: “Let me
observe first that without shorefront in public hands the
eternal ocean breeze would never reach the people, that the
city paid through the nose for a slice of the beach at Rock-
away which had been given away by imprudent predeces-
sors of yours. It cost some fifteen million bucks just to clear
the title to high water.”

RECREATION

 

 
 
 

RESEARCH

Recreational Use of School Property in Kansas

A questionnaire sent out by Dean Kastens, superintendent
of recreation in Dodge City, Kansas, with reference to the
use of school property for recreation, brought a response
from fifteen cities. Thirteen of these cities report that school
buildings and grounds are used for summer playgrounds;
two cities use the grounds only. Only two of the cities report

any charge made by the school board for such use—$6.50
per session and $1.62 per hour respectively. Cost of jani-
torial service was met in different ways. The recreation
commission meets the cost in six cities; the school board in
three cities; the board of park commissioners in one, and in
two others the recreation leader is reSponsible for the jani-
torial work.

A second question related to use of school gymnasiums
for basketball, volleyball, and so on. Twelve of the fourteen
cities responding report such use; seven report no charge
made by the school board for such use; five report the
charge of a use fee. The rates reported are $3.00, $5.00,
$10.50, and $21.50 per evening respectively, with a fifth
city reporting varying costs. The recreation commission
pays for janitorial service in most of the cities where no use
charge is made by the school board. The gymnasium pro-
gram in all cases is supervised by personnel employed by
the recreation commission or authority, although in several
instances school board employees are hired by the recrea-
tion commission for this work.

Television Viewing Habits of Children

A study of the television viewing habits of elementary
school children was conducted by the Tacoma, Washington,
Arts for Youth Council in 1954. The survey was carried on
with two groups, children in the elementary schools and
their parents. One thousand questionnaires were returned
from children in eight elementary schools and 650 parent
questionnaires were returned and studied. The following
are some of the results as compiled by Fred Robertson and
Arthur Admas, graduate students in the College of Puget
Sound.

Of the 1,000 children responding, 92.5 per cent have a
radio in the home, 87.5 per cent have TV, 92 per cent of the
children enjoyed being home more since they have had TV,
72.1 per cent report having supervised listening, and 72.8
per cent said TV did interfere with their reading. Considera~
ble information was gathered as to favored TV and radio

 

MR. BUTLER is director of the NRA Research Department.

SEPTEMBER 1955

George D. Butler

programs, but “comedy” headed both lists, followed in both
cases by “westerns.”

On the average, pupils with TV in their homes spent 2.33
hours per day during the school week viewing TV or 11.6
hours for the five-day period. This is equal to two full days
spent in school. On the basis of a seven-day week, the aver-
age daily viewing time was 2.53 hours per child or 17.7
hours per week.

The questionnaires revealed that 470 children listened to
radio regularly, but when both TV and radio were available,
the radio was used very little or not at all. When only a radio
was available, there were long listening periods.

Of the 650 parents whose Opinions were secured, 86.8 per
cent had TV sets in their homes; 94.1 per cent had at least
one radio. Asked what kinds of programs for children they
would like to see produced on TV and radio, the parents
listed fourteen categories, twelve of which might be classi-
fied as educational. Only 41 per cent made a first choice ob-
jection to crime-horror-detective programs.

Eighty-eight per cent reported they check the program
their children watch and listen to, as compared with the
findings in the children’s survey which indicated that 72.1
per cent have supervision.

Fifty-four per cent of the adults believe radio and TV in-
terfere with recreational reading, as compared with 72.8
per cent of the children.

Highlights of the parents9 reports were:
' Over 50 per cent of the children reported upon were spend-
ing far more hours viewing television than common health
standards would recommend.
' In examination of the parents’ listening and viewing
choices, entertainment was apparently the chief interest.
There was due notice of such areas as religion, history, and
current events, but the total interest in these areas was no
more than 25 per cent.
° In determining the programs that would be apprOpriate
for their children, parents apparently considered what they
believed would be good for the children. It was also evident
that their own tastes affected the choices, as many of the
programs chosen for the children were the same as those
listed for parents.
' Although many parents were doubtful, the majority of
them felt that no serious emotional, physical, 'or social in-
juries were being sustained because of watching TV.
° The report revealed some inconsistency when “westerns”
were mentioned. They were rated very high under preferred
programs as well as under objectional ones. 0

333

for the

Administrator

NOTE

Recreation and School Property

he Parks and Recreation Newsletter, for September 1954,
issued by the Tennessee Division of State Parks, urges
municipalities to take advantage of the state act which legal-
izes the use of municipal and county pr0perties for com-
munity recreation purposes. It points out, however, that in
most cases where municipalities are taking advantage of the
act and have established playgrounds and playfields on
school grounds and are using school buildings for recrea-
tion, utilization of these facilities takes place only after
school buildings are constructed. Although the perpetual
cry of economyis heard on every hand, very few officials
have considered, or acted upon, a plan to utilize more fully
school buildings and grounds for recreation purposes. The

Newsletter states:

This inability to coordinate planning for recreation and education
accounts for the cry of vandalism so often heard when recreation pro-
grams take place in a school building, because the building was not
properly planned for after-school-hours use. It also accounts for ex-
pensive grading and filling of the ‘leftover’ space alloted for play:
grounds and in many cases the condemnation and purchase by the city
of additional property.

. . . . if the school building and grounds are originally planned to
provide a place for recreational activities and grounds for play areas,
no community in the state need be lacking in the basic facilities and
areas needed for a recreation program.

This type of planning does not represent great additional cost in
the construction of a school building. Proper orientation in gymnasi-
um, cafeteria, auditorium, toilet facilities, and meeting rooms so that
they can be isolated, along with a heating arrangement whereby only
the facilities in use can be heated, and suHicient acreage to provide
necessary play areas, actually represent a saving to the city when
compared to the amount of money required to build separate commu-
nity centers and condemnation and purchase of expensive, and usually
inadequate, acreage for play areas.

Schools Designed for Dual Use

Procedures and principles used in designing schools to
serve both educational and recreational uses were outlined
in an article entitled “Schools by the Same Design Team”
in the November 1954 issue of the Architectural Record. It
stated:

“Increasing numbers of people are visualizing the school
as a social, recreational and educational center for the entire
community, raising the level of community goodness for
family living. The old standardized lessons have given way
to a broader program more in tune with the times and local
requirements. Local demands vary—each school should
be tailored to meet them. '

“Basic to good planning is a carefully detailed program

334

setting forth both school and community needs, as well as
an estimate of how these are liable to change in the near
future. The thinking of many people is often incorporated
into such a program.”

The article referred to the new senior high school at West
Springfield, Massachusetts, as follows:

“Both community and school needs emphasized vocation-
al, recreational, and physical educational units and a large
auditorium for one thousand as major units. No adequate
facility for the latter existed in the town.

“The finest facilities for interscholastic basketball games
were required, resulting in a large gym with spectator space,
excellent accommodations for visiting teams, and adequate
access and parking.”

It also described the junior-senior high school at Green-
burgh, New York. This school is located on a beautiful
seventy-two-acre site in a heavily wooded residential area
and is characterized by rock outcroppings and changes in
level:

“Early in the program it was decided that recreational
facilities should be devoted to participants, not spectators.
There was no ambition in the direction of competitive in-
terscholastic sports.

“Since a large auditorium was provided by the elementary
school, this one was conceived as a little theater seating only
three hundred, designed for adult amateur groups as well as
for the school dramatics program.”

With reference to the Wilbert Snow Elementary School in
Middletown, Connecticut:

“Based on the concept of a plant to serve both children
and adults for total community service, the preliminary plan-
ning involved many people and several agencies, including

the board of education, the park department, and the library
board.

“The library is designed for joint use by students and
townspeople and will become a branch of the town library
open during the evening hours when the school is closed.
It is located near parking areas for public convenience.

“The city park department and board of education have
established . . . . a formal agreement concerning joint use
of the school grounds which might well set an example for
other communities. The park department appropriated
$25,000 to implement its share of the site work. The agree-
ment provides that baseball and football fields, tennis courts,
and gymnasiums, as well as the locker and toilet facilities
for same, shall be ‘available to the public for use under su-
pervision and direction of the park department . . .
when in actual use by the school . . .’ In addition, the site
offers picnic areas, an arboretum, and hiking trails for com-

except

munity use. . . .

“The site is a beautiful, heavily-wooded slope of twenty-
five acres, part of an old estate. The woods will be preserved
as a sanctuary for birds and small animals and will be
used for nature study. What better environment for learn-
ing than the true expression of one of Childhood’s greatest
interests—that of growing things?

“Before the unit plan was adOpted, it was presented to a
citizens’ meeting for discussion and approval.” 0

RECREATION

Techniques for Handling
LARGE GROUPS

 

Frequently the recreation leader finds it necessary i0 or-
ganize and conduct activities involving large groups, often
running into hundreds of people, at dances, parties, picnics,
field days, and so on. Techniques which have been proved
successful in handling situations of this nature are as

fOIIOWS:
Planning the Program

Essential to any successful venture or activity is care-
ful, intelligent planning.

Preplan carefully. Over-planning is better than under-
planning. Consider all the various factors involved.

' Allow for plenty of time; set up a time schedule and allot
time wisely.

° Anticipate emergencies (have an alternate plan ready to
use if necessary).

' Capitalize on unexpected happenings.

' Be ready to improvise certain games or activities if
necessary. ,

' Check all necessary details, such as: date; time; place
(location, size, physical setup, lighting, acoustics, climate) ;
group (age, sex, type, number, experience) ; committees in-
volved; finances (make sure you have sufficient funds to
cover all costs); publicity and promotion; equipment and
devices; facilities (be sure they are available, safe, ready
to use); legalities (permits, insurance, and so on); serv-
ices needed (carpenters, electricians, janitors) .

Plan for leadership. Use and choose committees and as-
sistants wisely. Have only as many as can be efiectively
used. Make use of people within the group to help. Make
sure physical setup is conducive to good leadership.

' Divide responsibilities—don’t give one person too much
and another too little to do.

° Appoint leaders in advance. If you need them, plan ahead
for them. Select leaders who have enthusiasm and leader-
ship ability. Often it is best for the leader to observe and
not participate, although some participation is sometimes
desirable.

JOHN A. FRIEDRICH is with the department of physical edu-
cation, health, and recreation at Michigan State College in
Lansing, Michigan.

SEPTEMBER 1955

John A. Friedrich

' Plan with assistants (and committees) and make sure in-
structions, duties, and responsibilities are clarified. If pos-
sible provide a written set of instructions as a guide.

' Take time to teach activities to your leaders and assistants
so they, in turn, can teach their groups effectively.

Speaking to the Group

Be prepared. Know what you are going to say and do in
advance. Be ready to make changes if necessary. It may be
advisable to have an outline listed on a small card. Be self-
confident and assured in manner.

Be seen. Make sure group is in a comfortable and logical
position to see and hear you.

Be heard. Speak clearly and distinctly. Make sure acous-
tics are adequate. Make sure public address system, if using
one, is properly set up and in good working order. Speak
as though you expect the group to listen—and they usually
will do so.

Capture attention. This can be done by hand signals,
sounds (whistle, breaking a balloon, and so on), speaking
softly until group quiets down in order to hear you, or by
a story.

Establish rapport. Create group unity. Often the leader
may find it necessary to work directly with the large group
before breaking down into smaller groups. In this event,
use group stunts and icebreakers such as songs with mo-
tions; rhythmic applause; shaking hands with people to
right, left, front and back of them; and so on.* Usually only
one or possibly two or these should be employed on one
program.

Appeal to the group’s sense of drama. Be animated and
enthusiastic but don’t overdo it. When giving instructions
or information, be natural. Let the group be dramatic at
times; for instance, using an action story involving sounds
and letting group provide sound effects.

Create expectancy. Don’t tell the group everything they’re

* See Musical Mixers and Simple Square Dances'of “The Party
Booklets” series; Stunts, Contests and Relays (P 137) ; Action Songs
(P 89) ; Mixers to Music for Parties and Dances (P 193) ; Stunts and
Entertainments; Progressive Parties (MP 166) ; Recreation Activities
for Adults; Twice 55 Games With M usic—all NRA publications.
Also see Fun With Skits, Stunts and Stories by Helen and Larry
Eisenberg (Association Press), and other similar publications.

335

going to do. Retain something as a surprise. Mention that
something special is going to take place, and let them an-
ticipate. Be sure to follow up with a “special.”

Be enthusiastic. It’s catching. Let the grOUp know you
enjoy working with them, and are interested in them and in
the activities.

Speak to the group in a friendly manner. Be tactful and
thoughtful. Speak to individuals in the group; speak on the
level of the group; get the members with you. Don’t at-
tempt to apologize for poor equipment, and so on; make the
best of what you have.

Hold the group’s interest. Don’t talk too much or over-
eXplain; use eye catchers such as pictures and models, or
perhaps a stunt or trick.

Instructing and Demonstrating

Frequently it is necessary to instruct and demonstrate
certain phases of the programs:

Instructions. Make instructions brief, simple and clear;
use audio-visual materials such as charts, diagrams, black-
boards, and models when possible. Move the group into
position for the activity first and then give specific instruc-
tions. Teach activities to large groups the same as you
would to smaller ones.

Demonstrations. A good demonstration can be worth an
hour of talking. Make it brief and simple. Demonstrate
slowly and clearly; point out important phases. Plan the
demonstration before attempting to give it; be sure those
helping know what to do. Use a demonstration group for
activities, have others watch, and then let all try it. Break
down fundamentals and show the necessary steps in pr0per
sequence.

Organizing the Group

A certain amount of discipline is necessary, but not so
much that the activity loses appeal. Get order when you
want it. Stop horseplay immediately.

Things to do before regular program starts. Frequently
there is nothing for a group to do while waiting for others
to arrive. Many people feel self-conscious and shy. The
leader should, therefore, plan simple activities which will
help them to become absorbed in something. Guessing ac-
tivities (number of beans in bottle, peanuts in bag, pages in
book, and so on), puzzles, and quizzes are good. For large
groups, printed data of this nature is usually best. Also use
contests and games (bean bag throw, ring toss, dart board).

Getting acquainted. Some methods for doing this have
already been mentioned. Also use get-acquainted games
and mixers.

Getting all to participate. Often some of the people will
not wish to participate. In some instances, appointing peo-
ple in advance to be on the lookout for such non-participants
and encouraging them to enter is advisable. Many poten-
tial wallflowers can be drawn into the group by having
simple, fun-filled activities at the start. The leader can often
personally encourage participation, but he must take care
not to offend or embarrass anyone in the process. In some
cases older people in the group would prefer just talking.

Dividing and identifying groups. Twenty is a good unit

336

size. Teams might be divided on the basis of: age, height,
weight, numbered tickets, colored ribbons, playing cards
(match suits or numbers), locality, school, song titles,
proverbs, and birth months (display large cards with the
names of the months around the hall and request each per-
son to stand under the card with his birth month on it), and
so on. Other methods include counting off; using a grand
march, forming a large circle and dividing it into smaller
ones, and so on. "

° Each small group might plan some simple charade for the
preparation of which they are given five minutes. The cha-
rade is then presented to the other groups for interpretation.

Matching partners. Cut advertisements in two or, if the
same ones are duplicated, cut them in different ways; cut
playing cards or picture postcards in half; give names of
states to boys and cities to girls; give problems in addition
to boys and answers to girls; match parts of song titles or
prov'erbs.

Moving the group into position. To move groups from one
position to the next, or from large group into smaller groups:
have the group leader hold a pole with the group’s number,
name, or color on it; have special locationrin the area desig-
nated and named for the group to find; tell groups where
to start, in what direction and how far to go.

General Suggestions

Keep the group moving and active. Provide for breath-
ers. Avoid regimentation. Make activities enjoyable. Plan
more activities than are needed. Build up to a climax and
end up with something special. Create expectancy. Enforce
rules. Keep groups close together.

Suggestions on presenting games. Select them to fit the
type of group. Use simple games requiring maximum par-
ticipation; a forty-minute game-period involving no more
than about six good games is recommended. Use games at
the end of a period rather than the beginning. Don’t let a
game die—“kill it.”

° To introduce a game: name it, put group in proper for-
mation, explain it, demonstrate, ask for questions, and then
have group try it.

° Plan games so that they follow in sequence. Make all rules
and boundaries specific. Correct minor faults while game
is in progress (if faults are major, stop the game tempo-
rarily). .

Psychology in handling groups. GrOUps are suggestible.
Groups often tend to present a stereotype reaction.

° The group depends upon the leader to enhance its ego,
and should be praised when the occasion merits.

° Make clear to members what is going on. It is not, how-
ever, necessary for them to know all the goals of the pro-
gram.

° Each group has leaders within it. Appeal to and use these
people.

° Endeavor to appeal to human needs for: new experience
(curiosity), sociability, belonging, recognition, self-expres-
sion.

With time and effort the recreation leader can do a more
effective job. The results will be well worth the effort in-
volved, and the time spent richly rewarded. o

RECREATION

, HowTo DO IT? b 

 

L SCREEN PRtNT
QN PAPER OR CLOTH~

75 make : Posferé<$p5 C
C“?- DES/6N3 0N

K TOWELS,TABLE MATS,
\ .CLOTHING, SCARVES,
' HANDKERCHIEFS, ETC.

   
 
 

[£95

 

    
  

Muff/ems Nagofo

 

 
 
  
  

 

__ .19., wooden FRAME,Scrim.
75 PR/A/T' ~ \ /\ Tacks,3queegee,Clofh,
LDraw design on paper nd cmr using ‘sjencil method. PAPER, poster colors .5,»

 

Were/70’ SILK SCREEN
PANTS 7%? c/0777.

3. Place pdin‘t’ on scrim and using squeegee ,

Spread evenkg over Sunhce . 777/25 makes
‘ 5%?an 57’7'ck

    

 

  

7'6 scrim.
 eegee - __,-. ,zfié'f-‘trrz,
on scrim I \ /
. » _. Flame
4 Place paper or clo’rh on hue. 777 a, . lifde fmm
der frame Move 3 ueeqee .9 35’?” przhf.‘
uh ' 9- ,ormféd on ma/Prx'af. q

back and forth unhl surplus E
pain? is removed from surface of” scrim; Lifvt’ 'Frame and min? is finished.

SEPTEMBER 1955 337

Children’s ARTS and CRAFTS Program

Wherein surprising
and exciting results
are achieved with
younger children

Shirley Silhert

0 UR CHILDREN’S program at the Craft

Students League in New York was
ended; our June closing party was over.
Children, mothers, fathers, babies, and
friends were gone. The voices of chil-
dren echoed in our ears as we cleaned
up. “Will we please be able to come
back?” the boys and girls pleaded as
they departed with arms full of objects
they had made. Anthhe craft teachers
and others who had worked with these
children were also saying, “Can’t we
have more of this?”

We added up our attendance for the
eight weeks—twice a week, Wednesdays
and Fridays, May 5 through June 25.
Seventy-six children had registered for
the sixteen sessions, a total attendance
of 739 with 436 girls, 303 boys.

Not a dull moment in those eight
weeks. Everyone who had any contact
with the children was bubbling over
with stories about them. Each child in
his own way had left an indelible im-
print.

It is interesting to know how this chil-
dren’s project got started at the Craft
Students League of the YWCA, primar-
ily an adult craft school. For some
time the director, Madeleine Douet, had
been trying to get children’s classes go-
ing. The last experiment had been a
Saturday morning group. Only a hand-
ful of boys and girls were registered—
by parents who had to bring them con-
.siderable distances and then had to find

SHIRLEY SILBERT is an. instructor at the
YWCA Craft Students League and also

in the Extension Division at the City

College of New York.
338

 

Could they use torches without burning themselves? Care and con- _
centration were necessary. Smaller fry barely reached the tabletopw

ways of spending their own two hours
while the children’s class was in session.
The ideal situation would have been for
these grown-ups to register in a craft
class at the same time, but it didn’t
work out that way!

The Craft Students League is located
on a commercial street with hardly any
children on it, but west of us is an area
that boasts far too many children with
little money for such activities as the
league offers. Community citizens and
organizations were quite concerned
about these children and their lack of
recreational opportunities. After con-
sidering this problem for some time, a
plan was developed and was submitted,
in October 1953, to the division of
youth services of the Federation of
Protestant Welfare Agencies, asking for
a grant that would enable the league to
service children in its immediate vicin-
ity with a program of arts and crafts.
We offered to teach them how to create
genuinely useful and lovely things
guided by sympathetic skilled leaderl
ship. We knew that here the children
could have great fun developing prac-
tical skills and good work habits of en-
during value.

The teachers chosen for this project
were well equipped in their knowledge
of the crafts and in their understanding
of children. The program was to in-
clude jewelry and metalwork, carpen-

try, pottery and sculpture, stenciling,
leather, puppets, drawing, and painting.

Our plan was approved by the federa-
tion, and we were given a five-hundred-
dollar grant to cover the part-time sala-
ries of the four teachers who were in-
vited to teach. The Craft Students
League was providing the facilities and
equipment. Miss Douet was coordinat«
ing the program, and personnel at the
league would assist with the office de-
tails. It was also arranged to have each
registered child pay twenty-five cents as
an initial junior membership fee to the
YWCA, and ten cents a week as his
share toward covering the expense of
materials. ’

Since the principal of a neighboring
public school, Ethrain J. Weston, was
enthusiastic about the type of program
the league was proposing, his school was
selected as the pilot source for children.
Not only did he publicize this program
in his school but he offered to release
children at 2:00 P.M. so that they could
use one hour of school time in addition
to an hour of their recreation time,
twice a week. He also arranged to send
the children to the league accompanied
by a teacher. To stimulate interest, he
invited Miss Douet to speak to the chil-
dren in a school assembly and to exhibit
some of the crafts that they could do.

It seems rather amusing now to think
about some of the things which the four

RECREATION

teachers and Miss Douet discussed at
the meeting just. before the opening day.
Everyone seemed quite hopeful that at
least sixty boys and girls, twelve to
fifteen years of age, would express a
desire for the program. What we wanted
to do at this meeting was to decide how
to divide the children and what method
of rotating them we might use. Should
children be permitted to select their own
crafts? Should they be divided arbi-
trarily into four groups with fifteen chil-
dren in each group to rotate either two
times, four times, or as quickly as a pro-
ject ended? Should the public school
help with the selection of crafts through
a system of checking first and second
choices?

We finally decided to try a two-week
session for each group, allowing four
periods for each craft. Some concern
was also expressed for accommodating
sixty children. Where would they be
assigned? Would each teacher be able
to handle fifteen children? How would
the children work with expensive equip-
ment? Could they use torches without
burning themselves? Could they work
diligently or would they present disci-
pline problems? Would they leave
things alone that didn’t belong to them?
How would adult students react to the
children? What about the coke ma-
chine — and eating candy during in-
struction time? What about visiting

back and forth? What if they wanted

to change classes before the teachers

were ready to release them? Some sim-.

ple rules were finally worked out.

On our Opening day, everyone was
hopefully waiting for sixty children.
Everything was in readiness! And then
the let-down! A few children appeared
at 2 :00 RM. with a teacher. We counted
sixteen children, all looking rather
sheepish! When we recovered from the
shock, we divided them carefully—five
for stenciling, three for woodwork, four
for jewelry, four for pottery. “What
was wrong?” we asked. It just looked
as though the older boys and girls
hadn’t been as impressed as we had
thought they would be. In any event,
they had not come.

Although at first we hadn’t been very
eager to take younger children for this
type of program, we now decided to
drop the age level. Then they started

SEPTEMBER 1955

to come—-—b0ys and girls—nine, ten, peteers to make more puppets.

eleven, and twelve years of age. They
came by the dozens and brought their
friends. Would these children handle
tools and materials without serious
damage? Would they be willing to
settle down to concentrated work? We
didn’t have long to wait for the an-
swers! They could and did.

They were very much in earnest——
they wanted to learn what we had to
offer. They came earlier than two and
had to be urged to leave at four. They
worked hard and worked us hard! We
had to change all our original plans for
the rotation of groups and work more
Hexibly with the individual child. But
basically we held to the plan of at least
four sessions in any one craft in order
to accomplish something worthwhile.

Clay work didn’t mean very much to
the first few children. They were un-
able to visualize what might happen to
their clay objects beyond the dry clay
stage. But when their pots, tiles and
figures began to come out of the kiln——
baked, glazed and decorated, lovely ob-
jects to admire, to fondle, to love—~—the
rush started. Every child in the place
wanted to work with clay. What excite-
ment! They crowded in, filling every
available spot — wedging, modeling,
shaping, glazing. They were impatient
————they clamored for attention. They
raced in as quickly as they could get
out of school to see if a piece of theirs
had been fired. Instead of fifteen chil-
dren, at least nineteen children worked
in clay each session. Two volunteer as-
sistants were called upon to help.

Jewelry was popular from the start.
Again every available place was occu-
pied. It seemed miraculous to see little
boys and girls, whose noses hardly
reached the top of the table, sawing, fil-
ing, soldering, polishing, and turning
out lovely rings, bracelets, brooches and
necklaces of copper, brass, and bits of
silver. In stenciling, the first five girls
created stunning designs to be printed
on cinch belts and made copper buckles
for them.

Several children worked with leather.
A group of younger girls started to work
on puppets. They modeled h e a d s ,
painted them, and made lovely costumes
from scraps of cloth, lace, and ribbons.
A group of boys followed the girl pup-

“Let’s give a show!” the children
said. We talked about it, but an obstacle
appeared. There was actually no time
for rehearsals. It was therefore decided
to have the puppets do a little sponta-
neous acting and singing on our closing
program.

In reviewing the program in general
we felt that the achievements far ex-
ceeded the failures. Although we did
not attract the teen-agers for whom we
had originally planned, a few did come.
The largest number, however, came
from the lower age-bracket from nine
through twelve years of age. This
change pointed up what good work
younger children can do when properly
taught. We attributed some of the good
work to the fact that children were sur-
rounded by well designed, handmade
objects. Adults in the league were work-
ing constantly at creating interesting
and colorful crafts. There were many
things for children to marvel at and ask
questions about. Although adults were
not actually taking classes when the
children were in the school, there were
always one or two available. They were
quite willing to stop and explain what
they were doing.

We also discovered that younger chil-
dren reacted differently to this type of
program. For them it was sheer magic.
For the first time in many of these
young lives enchanting things were hap-
pening right before their eyes! Mud-
pies were turning into lovely pieces of
pottery, junky bits of metal and wire
were changing into attractive shiny ew-
elry, wood scrap was being shaped into
fascinating toys, and so on.

Here was a place where one not only
saw things being made but could parti-
cipate in their creation! But there was
a catch to it! The work required infinite
patience and a stick-to-it-iveness that
was a brand new experience to many.
If children wanted to possess some-
thing, they had to learn to use the ma-
terials and tools properly to make the
dream come true. They had to concen-
trate on the soldering torch or the parts
of the ring or brooch wouldn’t hold;
they had to wedge the clay and join
parts carefully or the little bowl ex-
ploded in the kiln. Design was a natural
process because it evolved from the chil-

339

 

dren’s ideas and sketches, or from the
direct use of the material. In every case
it had to meet a practical test because
it was related to concrete form, shape,
and line.

Tools and equipment were in good
condition when the program ended.
Nothing of any particular note had been
destroyed nor was anything missing.
Most of the children considered it a
great honor to put things away, wash
tables, scrub tools, or do other cleaning
jobs after class. i

In terms of popularity, pottery and
jewelry came first. Almost every child
regardless of age wanted to get into
those classes. Glazed pottery was the
novel attraction, and jewelry was a rare
experience. Puppets were well liked but
were not as unusual as the former.

The idea of stenciling designs on
cinch belts was attractive to about eight
girls in the teen-age bracket. Wood-
work, although participated in by a fair
number of children, was the most fa-
miliar craft to these youngsters and
therefore not so p0pular.

Regarding the number of children
that a teacher could handle comforta-
bly, it was felt that a maximum of twelve
was the most advisable because of the
time and effort it required to work with
each child. How long children should
remain in one class was also of extreme
interest. Our original plan was to give
them a varied experience in the use of
materials and tools. If they were to
learn something in each class we could
allow only four sessions. In future plan-
ning this would not necessarily have to
be the pattern. On the whole the teach-
ers felt that more time was needed to

teach children lasting skills and tech-
niques.

Our budget was limited. The Crafts
Students League was underwriting most
of the expense, but we used the money
the children paid in of ten cents per
week. Soldering was done with gas, fir-
ing of the kiln with electricity. Since
hundreds of clay objects were made by
the children, the three largest items of
expense were clay, glazes, and firing.
Under ordinary circumstances the
league has to count on a minimum in-
come from each firing of the kiln to
cover electricity and the wear and tear
on the kiln. Clay costs from six to eleven

340

cents a pound, depending on the amount
purchased. Glazes vary in price from
one dollar to one dollar and fifty cents
per pound. This amount changes, too,
depending on the number of pounds
purchased.

Good lumber was provided for seri-
ous wood projects. Elastic and paints
were purchased for the stenciled belts.
Drawing pads, crayons, and poster
paints were supplied by the league.
Scraps of inexpensive metal and wire
were used for jewelry. Children wanted
to use silver, and it might have been
easier for them to work with but our
budget did not allow for much of this
expensive metal. Leather was donated,
as were the scraps for the puppets. It
was suggested that a token amount could
have been charged for the use of ma-
terials like silver, or for excessive use
of the kiln. This is something to con-
sider in the future.

At the Craft Students League we
know how long it takes adults to become
proficient in any one craft. They need
to keep at it constantly—practicing over
and over, progressing from simple to
more complex projects. This would also
apply to children, the difference being
that we were more concerned with the
children than with the work they were
doing. Yet we insisted on the best pos-
sible ways of handling design and the
tools and materials. The effect was
quite revealing. Children responded
wholeheartedly. Our attitude was ac-
cepted and approved. Children tried
within the limit of their capabilities to
do satisfactory work. Some of them
even developed a critical approach to
their finished objects. For the most part
they discovered a great many things for
themselves as they were exposed to
guidance and instruction.

In planning a program of this sort
for the future, we face many questions.
Shall we limit the group to a minimum
of twelve children in a class so that the-
best possible work can be achieved; or
shall we accept as many children as we
did in this first experiment with a na-
tural drop in standards? In the two
months that we worked on this program
the motivation was extremely high and
many seemingly impossible things were
accomplished. A teacher cannot con-
tinue this pace the year around with any

notable results. Besides, in the long run,
the child loses out because it is diflicult
for a teacher to get to know everyone
well in a large group.

We observed a few things that could
influence our future planning. It was
reported by the jewelry teacher that the
middle age-group seemed particularly
adept at sawing' and soldering whereas
older girls in the same class required
more attention and were often at a loss
for ideas. The older girls also seemed to
have great difficulty sawing and solder-
ing and were impatient to finish their
pieces. This placed them at a disadvan-
tage with the younger girls who in-
dulged in a bit of bragging. 0n the
other hand it was noted that in the sten-
ciling class when younger children were
present and saw the older girls learning
fabric design, they too wanted to do
this craft which was far beyond their
scope. When the younger girls moved
on to another craft and the twelve- and
thirteen-year-olds worked by themselves
they enjoyed creating designs, were
quick to respond, and were far more
relaxed and easy to work with. We de-
cided that perhaps it was not too practi-
cal to mix the younger children with the
older ones.

The program combined fun with util-
ity. The process was intensely stim-
ulating and there was always the added
pleasure for each child of proudly
claiming some beloved object. With
each thing accomplished there was a
lesson learned and the challenge to try
something just a little bit harder. And
when children left for the day they still
had plenty to think about! It was ob-
vious to the parents and other visitors
who came to our closing program on
June 25 that much had been accom-

plished. O
__._._____________

Recreation Therapist

How would you like to start the new year in
California? Department of Mental Hygiene and
Youth Authority have positions in both northern
and southern California. 3341 to $415 month.
Application deadline OCtober 6 for nationwide
examination. Requirements: college major in
recreation or recreation therapY. including su-
pervised field work; or coilege minor in one of
these and major in psychology. education or
similar field. plus one year experience in group
recreation. Completion of two-year graduate cur-
riculum in social work specializing in social
group work also qualifies.

DENVER CONVENTION

Delegates to National Recreation Congress in
Denver in September may contact California rep-
resentotives at iob exchonge desk. Others write
Recruitment Section,

STATE PERSONNEL BOARD
80] Capitol Avenue, Sacramento I4, Calif.

 

RECREATION

IDEAS FOR THE COUNTY FAIR . .

The Recreation and Parks Depart-
ment of Fayetteville, North Carolina,
takes part in the county fair. Recently
their booth featured a wagon, and the
slogan “HitchYour Wagon to a Recrea-
tion and Parks Star.” Displayed in the
wagon and on the wall, in a wheel that
turned, were lists and pictures and
honor rolls of various community rec-
reation activities. Also included were:
a register for signing up county people

interested in community recreation; a
different animal from the zoo, daily,
with a man attending who .could talk
about its nature and habits; some con-

test for the children, as for instance, a
Turtle Derby.

For further county fair ideas see Idea
of the Month, page 344. (What are
other recreation departments doing at
county fairs? We would like to hear

 

Whatever the craft.

3 building, leather, metal, plastics. ceram

_b_.—‘—— ‘_‘-——-

_A.J

: you are teaching: woodworking. model

ics

from you.—-Ed.)

x-atto knives,
tools & sets

 designed by craftsmen and precision-made
i for fine craftsmanship

will help you
do a better job

 by helping your students get better results
5 and more creative satisfaction.

 Try Whillling: send for 40 page Whit-
. tling booklet with detailed instructions and
 plans for 34 projects—25¢.

  
 

CONSTRUCTIVE AND CREATIVE SUGGESTIONS
based on thirty years of developmental work by the
ARTS COOPERATIVE SERVICE

QUALITY MATERIALS—leather, felt, metals, clays,
paints, papers

STANDARD APPROVED EQUIPMENT -—-— easels,
kilns, tools, musical instruments

rtcraft services, inc.

340 Amsterdam Avenue, New York 24, N .Y. TRafan-ar 3-0507

FOR CREATIVE RECREATIONAL
ARTS AND CRAFTS PROGRAMS

Write for catalogue of materials and studies—10c.

    
 
 
   
     

   
     

 

Complete X-acto 28 page catalog— FREE

' x-acto

KNIVES ' TOOLS

HANDICI.‘ FT KITS

 

STAIRWAY
TO COLLEGE

by NORMIE RUBY and HAROLD RUBY

o A new, direct approach valuable to Students and
those guiding his course of college prepartion. Admis-
sion policies, college entrance requirements, tests, ex-
aminations, and prerequisites and Standards of the vary-
ing colleges are explained. Each subject receives under-
Standing treatment and review. Chapters deal with
social, academic, and extra-curricular programs as
found in different types of colleges. 80 pp., c10th,
$2.20; paper, $1.10.

@146ng

Sports Equrpment

JUNIOR COLLEGES AND SPECIALIZED
SCHOOLS AND COLLEGES

2nd ecl.,r 336 pp.,Ir cloth,Ir $3.30; paper, $2.20

0 Indispensable in guidance work is this descriptive
survey of junior colleges and schools of professional
training throughout the country. Curricula, courses, en-
rollment, faculty, tuition, etc., are given for 600 junior
colleges, 1100 specialized schools, and reference with
names and addresses for 1200 colleges and universities.

PORTER SARGENT m_ ., EW'

I! C. D 1
gr... I. » 1n .3

P14511559? CINCINNAII - CHICAGO - new xonx - L05 Aucttts

'l 'l Beacon Street, Boston 8, Mass.

 

SEPTEMBER 1955 341

 

can accomplish.

EVERAL hundred teen-age boys and
S girls were participating in the pro-
gram—social clubs, dances, special pro-
grams, indoor games and outdoor
sports—in February 1948, although the
deFremery Recreation Center 'in Oak-
land, California, had been open for only
two months. This was during a period

following World War II when the di-

rectors were earnestly testing their wits

owing what good leadership

   

contest in order to do something dif-
ferent. It was a success in part; how-
ever, taste in selection of bathing suits
was poor, and jewelry and trinkets were
worn to excess without regard for the
wearer’s personality or attire. Facial
makeUp was improperly done and in
some cases hair styling could have been
greatly improved. Most of the girls had
poor posture and were unskilled in the

to plan programs that would Expertlievfartgf walking gracefully.

needs of youth. A local citizens’ com-
mittee had asked the staff toii‘lhn a well“

.9 "UV":

rounded community centergprpgxam to

. . . iii“.  .
“reduce Juvenile delinquency}: ' g

The West Oakland area waiséeyerp'op-

Afterfgthis show, the girls became
more interested in the advantages of a
charm class-“program and the art of
modeling. “Mddeling”—the word was
like magic. N “ they really wanted a

o  . .  m, "a, . I
ulated Wlth the many famihes whohbadmmhgnxodehng classy;

migrated here during the war. As’ 

merous young ex-servic'egmen already‘

were finding outlets in theiT-aktahletic and
sports program, the staii was'izpriyarily
concerned with planning progragrii'sain,
which the girls would participate.

A meeting was arranged for inter-
ested young people and all who attended
were given an Opportunity to eXpress
their views.. They said they wanted
dances, ball games and “to eat.” When
the girls were asked if they’d like a
charm class in which they could learn
more about poise, good manners, and
how to make friends, they replied em-
phatically “No.” In keeping with the
principle of starting where the young-
sters are, the staff conducted dances, ar-
ranged banquets and ballgames.

One club decided to have a beauty

:-

DOROTHY W. SEEL is the resident head

director of deFremery Recreation Cen-
ter in Oakland, California.

342

.--+ u
m 'ls‘:"“*"€""

L’The jnéxtfijbb was to find someone
who couldggcfonduct such a class—on a
volunteerabasis. The recreation depart-
ment msTattempting to meet a need that
Katmai been heretofore recognized in
the local recreation program, and there
was no one on the staff for the new as-
signment.

Mrs. Annette Bruce, who had ap-

been on the staff at one of the local

sical culture studios, readily agreed'ifto
volunteer several hours each Satufday
afternoon. Although she had never con-

5'.
ducted such a class, she had rece' 'ed

peared in a local fashion show, and?
.37?

some training in physiotherapy and wag

. tea.
“thy/drew 1'0 ' lect dresses and colors

vitally interested in posture.

Sixty-seven girls, from fourteen to
eighteen years old, registered for the
modeling class in October, 1950. The
group included many girls who were in
the teen clubs and sports groups and,
also, several girls who had little interest
in the other activities of the program.

 

Graduation! Left to right: Annette Bruce, instructor;
hlrs. J. E. Green, mother of honor; John K. Chapel,
radio station director; a graduate; Dorothy See]; and
Jay Ver Lee, superintendent of recreation in Oakland.

Mrs. Bruce concentrated on exercises
and Walking, sitting, and standing eor-
rectly to develop good posture. The

class also included the art of modeling
clothes and instructions in e '  "

   

the social graces. The s  .   i
with their own -  Z T

       
 
 

 I. if: I', in
her sub-
I _ . ave covered.
lng, boy-girl rela-

makeup, hair styling, fashions and' style

selections, party planning, and parent-
ehild relationships.

Local doctors, ministers, social work-
ers, and beauticians who were interested
in youth were called upon to lead dis-
cussions on some of the topics. At least
a half hour during each meeting was
devoted to exercising.

Mrs. Bruce interviewed each girl per-
sonally and spent much of her own time
visiting homes and counseling girls

with spggisalnproblems. To those who

“Ea-top  their age she gave

' .SP-e
‘Idioctor’g help, sk ‘ med diets which

° 'orre ° 7 ' '
9.. ., thvwxerclses, and With a

could "give  et not increase
. - O .- - ' a.

weight. SE, ewe aged those whose

excessive weighi'w, the result of over-

eatipg'gglaxfdlil’ar disturbance to be

grace _ ndd'self-coniident, and taught

that were rig them. Homely girls
learned that ' yone has some good
quality which can be emphasized to
good advantage. These were just a few
of the special problem cases that arose,
and all of them were either helped by
Mrs. Bruce or directed to the proper

RECREATION.

person who could assist them—doctor,
nurse, minister, or parent.

The class enrollment increased, and
our next consideration was to plan a
special event to break the monotony of
regular meetings. The girls said, “Let’s
have a fashion show around the swim-
ming pool and call it ‘Aqua Fantasy in

Fashions.’ ”

The boy's, by this time, wanted to be
a part of the program. They joined
the girls in rehearsing dances, songs,
and in making costumes and props.
Clothes to be modeled were borrowed
from the local stores. The swimming in-
structor prepared her pupils. Publicity
was widespread; and the “Aqua Fan-
tasy in Fashions” was held in Septem-
ber, with more than three hundred spec-
tators.

Mrs. Bruce also spent many Sundays
taking groups to different churches, and
she encouraged the teen-agers to attend
the church of their choice.

When the girls began to realize the
value of the different kinds of informa-
tion they were receiving, they discussed

a name for the group and finally de-
cided to call it the “Charm Class.”

Each girl was asked to write an essay
on “Why I Joined the Charm Class,”
the best essays to be delivered at gradu-
ation exercises.

The first such exercises were held on
Sunday, April 29, “1951 in the center’s
auditorium before an audience of ap-
proximately four hundred parents, rel-
atives, friends, and visitors. Forty girls
were ready to receive their certificates.
They were beautifully, but inexpensive-
ly dressed in cotton dresses of identical
style. Most of the graduates made their
own dresses, and those who could sew
especially well helped the others. They
had selected a pattern with a plain cot-
ton bodice, which they made of different
pastel colors 'with white organdy skirts.

Various leaders in the community
were invited to appear on the program,
to give it status and to offer them an op-
portunity to witness this kind of pro-
gram—as sponsored by a public recrea—
tion center. The program included mu-
sic, an invocation, a reading of the es-
says, fashion show, modeling by a pro-
fessional model, presentation of certi-

ficates, recognition of volunteers, sing-
ing, and benediction.

SEPTEMBER 1955

Mrs. Bruce’s natural charm, sinceri-
ty, and genuine interest in helping
others contribute much to the success
of the program. The girls love her. She
instituted a system for them to pay ten-
cent dues when they could afford it, so

that the funds ‘6 '  p defray gradu-

   
   
  
  
    
  
  
   
 
   
   

or shoes. “ i . hich was thus
willingly compli _ 4 those who were

in need of help ade comfortable
in requesting it.

After the 19
the teen-agers ,
continued. 

superinten dent g

ation exercises
‘at the class be
on department
‘ . dministration
 '3 with the per-
i. I .piness of the
'  activity had
helped to ba nce the  bhouse pro-
gram. Mrs. ruce was p - on the pay-
roll to continue the class.

The adults then began to call daily
asking for a class in personality devel-
opment; and an adult charm class was
organized in May 1951. Fifty-two
women registered and received similar
instruction, except that the adult pro-
gram was geared to meet the needs of
mothers, career women, and young
adults. After six months, thirty-five
women received certificates and asked

sonal develop f 
girls, and wi 

that the class continue. As a result
twenty-two more women were gradu-

ated in June 1952.

During this period the teen-age class
was continued under the original setup.
In order to encourage the participation
of the girls who had received certifi-
cates in the first class, they became
teaching assistants, and they have ren-
dered valuable service.

The girls agreed that they were re-
ceiving good training in etiquette, but
that their boy friends did not react fa-
vorably because they had not received
similar training. After the second grad-
uation program the teen-age boys ex-
pressed their desire to have a similar

class, and an “Escort Class” was or-
ganized for them. Approximately thirty-
five registered. Enthusiasm was high
but attendance was not regular. Ap-
parently there was too much pressure
from the gang who felt it was not manly
to be connected with a counterpart of

a girls’ charm class. However, at the
third charm class graduation program
in October, 1953, fifty-four girls and
twenty-two boys from the escort class
graduated.

The value of this kind of program has
been felt in the entire community. The
youth in other centers in the area began
to ask for charm classes. The girls who
had been trained were outstanding in
the fashion shows sponsored by the
schools, churches, and clubs. Other
community groups began to call upon
Mrs. Bruce and the teaching assistants
to aid them with their style shows.

Association with the class has been
a satisfying experience for members
and directors. Our present class of one
hundred and five girls is larger than any
previous enrollment; however, this is
not the only charm class, there are six
others being taught in other Bay Area
centers.

This activity, which was established
on an experimental basis, has become a
solid part of various programs, and
hundreds of youngsters are now learn-
ing how to be charming citizens of to-
day and tomorrow. 0

 

AWARDS YOU CAN AFFORD

 

Visit our Booth
at the
Denver Convention

Mail this coupon for FREE Sample

W. R. MOODY
Box 269
Burbank, Calif.

Please send me FREE postpaid samples
of your trophies.

Name

Organization______-______._.___

Address

343

 

“CHILDREN’S DAY”
at the Fair

 

Maurine Evans

“The Illinois State Fair is doing a great deal to publicize
the work of various recreation departments in the state”
—Robert Horney, NRA District Representative.

OPENING day, designated as “Chil-

dren’s Day,” brings many children
with their fathers and mothers to the

Illinois State Fair, which has a reputai

tion for being "an outstanding agricul-
tural and educational fair. For many
years the main attraction for children
was the carnival; but five years ago, it
was decided to plan a specific program
for them.

The 1954- program was planned for
boys and girls under sixteen years of
age, and Opened with a junior king and
queen competition, where couples spon-
sored by newspapers, cities, service
clubs, youth gIOUps, lodges, veterans’
organizations, or other groups were
given five minutes to tell of the organi-
zation they represented, put on a skit,
or perform as they desired. This was
the first year for this event and eleven
couples participated. The winners were
selected by vote of the audience, and
were crowned by Governor Stratton.

A kiddies’ amateur program was pre-
sented in the Illinois Building, with a
junior MC in charge, where over fifty
contestants representing approximately
twenty-five communities gave an enter-
taining and varied program. One of the
outstanding events was “De Jolly Fol-

MRS. MAURINE EVANS is the assistant di-
rector of the Playground and Recrea-
tion Commission, Department of Rec-
reation, Springfield, Illinois.

344

lies” presented by fifty-five youngsters
from the recreation department of Peru,
Illinois.

Other events included a junior Olym-
pic track and field meet, a basketball
throw, and a girls’ horseshoe pitching
contest for the athletic boys and girls
under fourteen. The ninth national
newsboy newspaper throwing contest
attracted over three hundred entries
sponsored by newspapers or news agen-
cies for which they were bona fide car-
riers. A model playground was set up
by the J. E. Porter Company of Ottawa,
Illinois, where children under twelve
years could enjoy the latest in swings,
slides, and so on, under supervision.

Our program was further varied to
include checkers, jackstones, beanbag
board contest, rope skipping, contests
to select the boy or girl with the most
freckles, largest pigtails, the brightest
red head and the most curls, so that
each youngster might have a class in
which to participate. Through the co-
operation of the Duncan Yo-yo com-
pany of Chicago, a state-wide Yo-yo
contest was held. For the wee ones,
there were the baby pageant and the
doll buggy parade with various classifi-
cations. Children representing nursery
rhymes, movie characters, and Mother
Goose characters paraded down a white
canvas to the judges’ stand, where com-
petent judges selected the winners.
Originality, appearance, ease, and like-

 

1’ 3 s . h -
l .4, : V
a . - . . § g _  -
l " .
Li. ‘ s .» s’ " statue“:  “’i' . Lift—1"” : v

The Pigtails Champion. Children took

part for fun and joy of participating. In
all events each child received a pin, rep-
lica of State of Illinois, for participation.

ness of character portrayed formed a
basis for the udges’ decision.

Two drill teams from the Champaign
Douglas Community Center entertained
with intricate drills, an educated horse
performed for the enjoyment of chil-
dren and parents, and a trick mule
which some of the children tried to ride
gave everyone in the coliseum a hearty
laugh.

Contests in which the audience parti-
cipated were the climax of the program
in the coliseum. Age classificationshas
well as mother and child events, were
a lot of fun for both participants and
audience. Local merchants sponsored
the contests and merchandise awards
were provided. We feel that in this type
of program, children should participate
for the fun and joy of participating
rather than being able to say, “I am
better than John,” or “Mary,” as the
case may be. Therefore, in all events
each one received a participation
award, a pin which was a miniature
replica of the State of Illinois engraved
with the words “Illinois State Fair.” All
other awards had the same little Illinois
replica made especially for us; Gover-
nor Stratton tr0phies were awarded to
the champions.

RECREATION

    

 

Twenty-five classes of junior culinary
art gave boys and girls a chance to be
selected “Grand Champion Cook of To-
morrow.” The grand champion award
is given according to the point system of
premiums won in individual classes.

The craft center included craft dis-
plays by many recreation departments
throughout the state, YMCA’s, Scouts,
and so forth, as well as articles entered
by individual children for competition.
In the booth exhibits, each child re-
ceived a miniature blue ribbon and each
group received a Governor Stratton par-
ticipation award.

A "‘learn-to-do-it” program was a
part of the handcraft center program in
the Textile and Art Building. Recrea-
tion departments were invited to parti-
cipate in the craft activities. The proj-
ects were simple enough to be made in
a short period of time, did not require
too many tools, and were inexpensive.
Kit-type projects were recommended.
This program was not a money-making
scheme, but a charge was made for sup-
plies necessary to make a project. Lead-
ers of all youth groups, home bureau

UNITED WE SERVE . . .
l
U

will;
abut/JD

Throughout America, citizens of all races
and faiths . . . over 15 million of them . . . are

taking. Men and women, boys and girls . . .
all are volunteers in a mighty fund raising

leaders, and teachers, were invited to
participate. Two days were designated
as “learn-to-do-it” days, but many of
the demonstrators stayed on during the
entire fair. Commercial companies were
invited to set up exhibits and to send
demonstrators for the two-day period.
The response to this program was good
and I am sure it will be included again.

In cooperation with the Illinois Fed-
eration of Square Dance Clubs and the
Illinois Callers Association, two square
dance programs were held. On the first
Saturday of the fair, adult square dance
groups from all over the state partici-

pated in a program of square dance ex-
hibitions and in the evening a fun festi-
val sponsored jointly by these two
associations and the Illinois state fair
management was held on the main street
of the fairgrounds. Everyone was in-
vited, and space was available for thir-
ty sets to dance. at one time.

Some three thousand spectators, as
well as the thirty sets participating,
showed the popularity of this type of
free entertainment. On Monday, youth

groups gave exhibitions of square danc-
ing in the Illinois Building.

In addition to the events on children’s
day, there is a junior department where

the 4-H Club members and the Future
Farmers of America students have their
exhibits and program daily throughout
the fair. There are also the high school
band contest, the baton twirling contest,
solo and band competition for accor-
dions and fretted instruments, and the
hobby show, which attracted many en-
tries from junior collectors.

Many cities have sent bus loads of
children to participate in this one day
of activities and it has been included as
a part of the summer playground pro-
grams of many recreation depart-
ments in the state.*

The state of Illinois is to be com-
mended for offering boys and girls of
the state an opportunity to meet with
each other in recreational and educa-
tional activities on this one day. +

 

* The Illinois State Fair booklet may be ob-
tained by writing to the Illinois State Fair,

Etrother G. Jones, General Manager, Spring-
eld.

 

uniting now in a great humanitarian under-

campaign. Dependent upon their efforts are over 21,000

welfare services.

United Community Campaigns, held each fall in behalf of

local and national voluntary health,welfare and defense serv-

ices, are everybody’s business. Be a volunteer in your towh’s
Community Chest or United Fund campaign!

ICE SKATING RINKS

If you are planning the construction of an
Ice Skating Rink in the near future contact:

Pete Carver

Specializing in the Design,
Engineering and Sales of Artificial Ice

Skating Rinks and Equipment

Play Equipment Package

Now that the children of Europe can play again, they need

0

 

equipment. CARE has available a $46.00 Play Equipment
package which can be delivered to any of the following coun-

INDOOR . . . OUTDOOR
PERMANENT . . . PORTABLE

0

tries: Austria, Belgium, Colombia, Finland, France, Greece,
Italy, Japan, Korea, Luxembourg, Mexico, Netherlands,
Norway, Panama, Peru, Philippines, West Germany, Yugo-

slav1a. The package was developed, With the cooperation of write for 'nformafion and Reference "5'

the National Association for Physical Education of College

Women, for schools and children’s institutions overseas. It
contains: 6 rubber bounce balls, 2 leather soccer balls, 1 in-
flator, 2 leather volley balls, 1 volley ball net, 1 volley ball
manual, 1 soccer manual. Write to CARE, 660 First Avenue,
New York 16, N. Y., or a local CARE oliice.

T75 CHRISTOPHER STREET

NEW YORK 14, NEW YORK
Phone: WAtkins 4-1150

 

SEPTEMBER 1955 345

 

   

A REPORTER’S NOTEBOOK

 

Honored

. Mrs. Paul Gallagher—at the dedica-
tion of Rachel K. Gallagher Park in
Omaha, Nebraska, in July. Joseph Pren-
dergast, executive director of the Na-
tional Recreation Association, and
Mayor Rosenblatt were speakers. Mrs.
Gallagher is a board member of the As-
sociation and is active in behalf of rec-
reation both nationally and locally.

0 Mrs. Rollin Brown—in a recent elec-
tion to the presidency of the National
Congress of Parents and Teachers at
their fifty-ninth annual convention.
Mrs. Brown, resident of Los Angeles, is
board member of the National Recrea-
tion Association, and past president of
the California Parent Teachers Associ-
anon.

.John J. Downing—at a re-dedication

of Triborough Stadium, Randalls Is-
land, New York City, which was renam-
ed the John J. Downing Memorial Sta-
dium by Parks Commissioner Robert
Moses in honor of the city’s late di-
rector of recreation. Mr. Moses praised
Mr. Downing’s accomplishments and
said, “No one did more to anticipate
and meet youth problems in this city
than he. Further, he sought neither
credit nor publicity in the performance
of his duties.”

0 Dorothy Enderis—in a biographical

sketch by Miss Lela B. Stephens. Miss
Enderis who died in July, 1952 (REC-
REATION, September, 1952) was guid-
ing hand in the recreation program of
Milwaukee, for thirty-six years. The
sketch entitled, “The Lady of the Light-
ed Schoolhouses,” was written for the
Committee on Pioneer Women and Re-
search of Delta Chapter of Delta Kappa
Gamma, Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Among
quotations taken from Miss Enderis’
talks is the following: “A playleader
who perfunctorily carries on activities

346

and guards his playground against
physical mishap has a job. He who adds
skill and techniques to these duties cre-
ates a profession: But, he who crowns
his profession with consecration and
devotion performs a mission; and the
children, youths and adults who come
to him for play and sport carry away
deeper values and greater riches than
the more memory of a happy day, and
the community which has entrusted to
him the sacred leisure hours of its citi-
zenry shall call him blessed.”

Alan
Burritt
Dies

 

0 Alan Burritt, recreation planner,
landscape architect and recent member
of the National Recreation Association
planning staff, died in July at his home
in Manhasset, New York, at the age of
fifty-eight.

Formerly he had been head of the De-
partment- of Landscape Design at the
University of Florida, and more re-
cently had served as Town Planner for
the Tennessee Valley Administration,
landscape architect and planner for sev-
eral federal housing agencies in Wash-
ington, D. C. He joined the National
Recreation Association in New York in
1944, and held this position until his
retirement in 1951.

Mr. Burritt was known not only
among NRA staff and friends for the
beautiful hooked rugs he had made dur-
ing the last thirty-five years, but he had
received national recognition for this
art.

New Contest

0 A contest to obtain an emblem for
the settlement movement is being spon-

sored by the National Federation of
Settlements. The deadline for entries is
January 1, 1956. First prize is $100,
second prize $25, and third prize $25.
The emblem should be simple and easy
to recognize and should represent the
idea, goals and pioneering spirit of set-
tlements. A committee of distinguished
designers interested in settlements, plus
representatives of the National Public-
ity Council for Health and Welfare
Services, Inc., and representatives of
the Community Chests and Councils of
America will be the final judges. Send
emblems to: EMBLEM CONTEST, Public
Relations Committee, National Federa-
tion of Settlements, 226 West 47 Street,
New York 36, N. Y.

Facts and Figures

Colorado: Rocky Ford and Sheridan

have approved bond issues for extension
and improvement of water systems. In
Center, a thirty-member citizen’s com-
mittee has been formed to map out a
summer recreation program. It has pro-
posed a $1,000 budget to finance a paid
athletic director and a paid music di-
rector for two months. In La Junta,
bonds totaling $88,000 have been issued
to finance a new swimming pool. The
bonds will be paid off by electricity
revenues.

New Jersey: Plans are under way for
developing a ten-mile stretch of sand
dunes into a state park and wild-life
sanctuary. The state acquired the land
in 1953 and Governor Meyner has stat-
ed that a thorough plan must be worked
out before any concrete steps are taken.
The tract extends from Point Pleasant
to Barnegat Light.

Growth in New York City

C A $250,000 gift from the Florina
Lasker Foundation will make possible
construction of a new indoor-outdoor
recreation center to be constructed in
Central Park. The plans include a one-
story building, with piano, television
room, radio room and kitchen, and out-
door dining terrace. Older people who
now use this area are delighted.

The center will be staffed with park
department personnel, “trained in rec-
reation leadership and with special in-
sight into the needs of the older gener-

ation.”

RECREATION

O The first golden age center operated
by the Department of Parks in cooper-
ation with a social service agency was
dedicated in May on New York City’s
lower East Side. The building was for-
merly a children’s center but was made
available to men and women over sixty-
live because the membership at the Uni-
versity Settlement was growing too large
for their old building. Parks Commis-
sioner Robert Moses said this was the
first in a series and will be an experi-
ment. The center has modern furniture,
a television set, radio-phonograph and
card tables. Light refreshments can be
prepared in the kitchen.

0 A Garden of Fragrance for the Blind
has been opened at Brooklyn Botanic
Garden. Flowers and herbs chosen for
their aroma and benches of scented
wood are featured. Braille signs give
the plant names and visitors may feel
or crush the foilage. The garden has a
system of guide rails and attendants.

Bank Provides Play Area

0 The Northwestern Bank of St. Louis,
Missouri, is using its private parking
lot, covering more than 7,000 square
feet, as an afternoon play area. When
the bank closes in mid-afternoon, forty
to fifty children attend the playground
which has facilities for basketball, vol-
leyball, badminton and hop-scotch. At
closing time (9 PM.) nets come dOWn
and equipment is put away. The cost
to the bank was about $1,500, plus cost
of the electricity used. Bank officials
received help from Grace Hill House, a
Community Chest agency, in providing
supervisors for the playground and also
in the planning of the new recreation
area. Bank ofiicials hope that other con-
cerns will emulate this plan.

AAU Swimming Award

 

C The A.A.U. recently received a new
international swimming award which
will hereafter be presented annually to

the “individual or organization who
through competitive performance, edu-

SEPTEMBER 1955

?' KEEP AMERICASTRON '
 ITH PLAYGROUNDSG ‘

 

    
 
 

TWO " ‘ ’ and RECREATION i '
5;? d . . O I
New " usocunoa l
t um sh]!!! You,“ Icy.
Signs
on Display

 

. A message urging support of the work of the National Recreation Association
is on display at two very prominent points in Essex County, New Jersey. Through
the courtesy of the United Advertising Corporation of Newark, large painted
bulletins, such as the above, at Central Avenue and Sanford Street in East Orange,
and at Park Place and Saybrook Place (Military Park) in Newark, carry the
request to HELP KEEP AMERICA STRONG WITH PLAYGROUNDS AND RECREATION.
The bulletins also suggest, “Send Your Contribution to the National Recreation
Association.” Both are lighted, and during an average eighteen hour day they
confront a combined pedestrian traffic of more than 140,000 people. (.See RECRE-
ATION, November, 1954, page 530, for report of a similar sign at California.—-—~Ed.)

cational or instructional achievement,
writing or development of original ma-
terial, or by a continuing unselfish ef-
fort to establish swimming facilities—
has made the most outstanding contri-
bution during the year to swimming on
a national or international level.” The
award statue, shown, was designed by
Joseph Brown, noted sculptor who Spoke
at the recent recreation congress in St.
Louis.

Conferences

. Herb Price writes us, from Los An-
geles, that scholarships in the recreation
education department of Los Angeles
State College are presented annually to
the most outstanding and deserving rec-
reation majors—-~men and women—by
the Los Angeles Recreation Directors
Association. The presentation occurs at
the annual in-service training institute
sponsored by the college and District
XIV of the California Recreation Soci-
ety. This year, fifty-dollar awards went
to Dorothy O’Brien, recreation faculty,
Los Angeles State College and George
Willott, chairman, recreation education
department, Los Angeles State College
and chairman of the institute.

The program of the college-prepared
institute was based on the theme “Are
We Effectively Communicating?” and
was primarily concerned with the use of
all types of audio-visual materials, and
equipment by recreation departments.
The planning committee consisted of
members of the college recreation and
audio-visual faculties, representatives

of each local recreation department
serving the district, and recreation-edu-
cation students of the college.

New Materials

0 A hunter safety course prepared by
the National Rifle Association of Amer-
ica and given on a voluntary basis by its
qualified members is described in a
booklet that may be obtained by writ-
ing to the National Rifle Association of
America, 1600 Rhode Island Avenue,
Washington, D. C. The course presents
information concerning the operation
of guns, safe gun handling, good shoot-
ing, and the hunter’s responsibility.

. Committee members from Cleve-
land’s twenty-two youth centers are
writing a booklet entitled, “Activities
for Teen-Agers by Teen-Agers,” for the
Cleveland Board of Education Commu-
nity Centers. The Sub-Committee on
Youth Education of the Cleveland Rail-
road Community Council sponsored a
meeting between the teen-age represen-
tatives and members of the Adult Ad-
visory Committee. The meeting was
preceded by a dinner in a railroad diner,
with a railroad coach being used for
the meeting. The coordinator for the
project is Dorothy Woods, 19-year-old
student at Fenn College. Educators and
civic leaders, together with representa-
tives of the railroads, are advisors for
the project, which is attracting much
attention. The booklet will be distrib-
uted free upon request.

347

 

 

NEWS

I f you are interested in any of
these products, write directly to
the manufacturer at the address
given. PLEASE mention that you
read about it on RECREATION
magazine’s Market News page.

 

 

6 Bowlite, a lightweight, full size, portable bowling game,
is played and scored just like the ten pin game at any bowl-
ing alley—and makes this popular pastime possible for in-
door and outdoor use at recreation centers, schools, insti-
tutions, almost any place at any time. The set includes reg-
ulation-size plastic pins, a rubber ball, a backstop, set-up
sheet, and scoreboard; and it weighs only about twenty
pounds altogether. The ball, which features finger grips for
a large or a small span, weighs about two pounds; the pins
weigh about one-eighth as much as the regulation ones; and
the backstop, which has a metal-tubing frame with heavy
net webbing to catch the pins during play, collapses to form
a carrying case for the set. Recreation workers who have
tried the set have been very enthusiastic about it. Arm-
strong Harris Company, P. O. Box 124, Oak Ridge, Ten-

1188886.

0 Micro Sign Plastic Letters
provide an almost unlimited
variety of attractive sign and
display adaptations. These plas-
tic letters and numbers adhere
to wood, paper, plaster, glass,
paint, fabric, plastic, or any
material by using either Micro
Magic Solvent or Micro Magic
Cement. They are available in
six sizes, ranging from one-
quarter to two inches, in eight
colors, and in standard, con-
densed, and modern type style
depending on size. Micro Sign
Products, 2909 Santa Monica Boulevard, Santa Monica,
California.

 

6 Stanley Magic Door Controls speed the flow of people
where doors are very busy. The door controls are of two
basic types: “Magic Carpet” and “Magic Eye.” The “Eye”

348

is an electronic control which opens the door whenever a
person intercepts the cross ray, closes it when passage
through the door is completed. The “Carpet” is laid through
the door opening, and when someone steps on it, it actuates
the door. Detailed sketches and full operating and installa-
tion information are included in the “Magic Door” Catalog
which is obtainable from The Stanley Works, New Britain,
Connecticut.

0 The “Knee-Hi” Alumafold Table is designed especially
for use by children from three to seven years of age. This
folding, aluminum table is only twenty-two inches high,
sixty inches long, either twenty-four or thirty inches wide,
and has a durable, scratch resistant, easily cleaned top. Like
the standard size Alumafold models, the “Knee-Hi” folds
easily and compactly for storage, and its light weight (only
nineteen pounds) enables it to be carried from place to place.

P. B. R. Manufacturing Company, H and Luzurne Streets,
Philadelphia 24, Pennsylvania.

0 Spin-a-test, or Black-
board Spinner, recently
introduced to classroom
teachers throughout the
country as a means of
converting any subject
into a game and there-
by increasing the reten-
tion on subject matter,
is an accurately-balanc-
ed hardwood spinner,
eighteen inches long, on a three-inch suction cup for attach-
ing it to vertical surfaces. The spinner can be readily adapted
to a variety of quizzes, contests, and games for recreation

programs. Spin-a-test Company, Department 650, P. O. Box
241, Hermosa Beach, California.

 

O The problem of projecting pictures in the brightly lighted
classrooms of today’s modern schools is discussed and
analysed in a new pamphlet,'Tl1e Role of Projection Screens
in Lighted Classroom Projection. It describes recent re-
search in improved screen surfaces, the limitations of pres-
ent-day projection equipment, and comments on develop-
ments now in progress. Copies are available from the Radi-

ant Manufacturing Corporation, 2627 West Roosevelt Road,
Chicago 8, Illinois.

0 You can stop rust, and save metal surfaces, by applying
Rust-Oleum 769 Damp-Proof Primer directly over a rusted
surface. This product which will help you keep playground
and park equipment looking its best. It is good for swings,
wire nets, fences, backstops, slides, “monkey bars,” trash
receptacles, outdoor bleachers, trucks and tractors. Rust-
Oleum Corporation, 354 Jackson Avenue, New York City.

RECREATION

Texts by MOSBY in the P. E. F ieldl

Methods and Materials in School Health Education
By Leslie W. Irwin, James H. Humphrey and Warren R. Johnson

In Preparation

The preparation of this book was prompted by the need for a text for
teachers in service and prospeCtive teachers to show them “how to teach"
and to orient them in health education. All of the material is based on re-
search and many years of teaching and supervision of teachers on the part
of the authors. -All of the examples of teaching methods have proved suc-
cessful in practical teaching situations at the various grade levels. It is
especially designed for use in health education courses for the teaching of

“Education Through Physical Activities”

By Pattric Ruth O’Keefe and Anita Aldrich
262 Pages. 154 Illustrations. PRICE $4.50.

This book is unique in that it n0t only presents the activities that should
be included in the elementary school physical education program, but clearly
shows how the program can be organized and conduCted in the many school
situations throughout the country in which facilities, equipment, and avail-
able space often ali'eCt the nature of the program. The authors present in a
pracrical and logical way the bases for selecting activities, the fundamental
principles underlying the program, the objectives of a program, the de-
sirable amount of time to devote to the total program, and the numerous
aCtivities and criteria for evaluating the activities.

“Principles and Techniques of Supervision in
Physical Education”

By Leslie W. Irwin and James H. Humphrey
344 Pages. PRICE $4.50.

This book covers all the latest and mat modern techniques and methods of
supervision. It relates the supervision to the entire academic process as well
as to health and physical education. Where other texts in this area have
tended to cover the general area of supervision rather than the speciiic field
of physical education, this new book offers complete coverage of the field
of supervision in physical education. It elaborates upon techniques of super-
vision, and presents successful methods that have been used in school situ-
ations. It offers numerous ways of inaugurating and implementing a pro-
gram of supervision in physical education: and is designed for a one-semeSter

COUISC.

health. It will be particularly useful for courses which prepare elementary
classroom teachers who will eventually have the responsibility for the health
of Children. It will also be an excellent reference work for teachers, school
adminiStrators, and supervisors. It incorporates the m05t modern methods
of teaching health from grades 1-12. Full chapters are given to certain
topics which are given only brief mention in Other texts—for example: full
charts in demonstrations: field trips. concepts of method, unit method. etc.

“Administration of Tests in Physical Education”

By Raymond A. Weiss and Marjorie Phillips

278 Pages. 91 Illustrations. PRICE $4.50.

The information in this book is designed to supplement the material found
in the measurement texts, not duplicate it—thus providing a single source
for test instrucdons. Previously it was necessary to consult numerous
sources, many of which weren't readily available or which failed to separate
the essential information from the details of the research procedure. These
details were far beyond the comprehension of the average beginning student
and thus confused him. With the organization of all materials in an orderly
fashion through the use of a Standardized form which eliminates the tech-
nical details of the research method. it is hoped that the learning process
will be greatly facilitated.

“Methods and Materials in Physical Education
and Recreation”

Edited by Charles A. Bucher
423 Pages. Illustrated. PRICE $6.25.

This book represents a compilation of the best methods and materials avail-
able for the teaching of physical education and recreation aCtivities. In the
field of physical education, it is applicable to the elementary, junior high
school, senior high school, and college levels. In the field of recreation, it
is applicable to the various school and community settings where such pro-
grams are conduCted. It has been written by 16 qualiiied authors in the
fields, from various parts of the U.S., who are specialists for each of the
groups into which the activities have been classified.

“Administration of School Health and Physical Education Programs”
By Charles A. Bucher

480 Pages, 84 Illustrations.

This book is concerned with administration as related to school programs of
health and physical education, with implications for reaction. It covers ad-
ministration of both school health and physical education programs. Both
areas are treated in a way which recognizes each as a specialized professional
field of endeavor. Democratic administration is a main concern of this book

PRICE $5.502 .

and permeates all the principles discussed. The policies concerned with
planning, human relations, and personnel are of concern to all adminis-
tration, regardless of specialization. This is a new approach and greatly
enriches the content of this book. It contains the latest trends regarding
administration of school health and physical education programs.

THE C. V. MOSBY COMPANY, 3207 Washington Blvd., St. Louis 3, Mo.

Date

Gentlemen: Send me the book(s) checked with (X) on 30-day approval. Teachers discount of 10%. (It is understood that, in
the event the books ordered are adopted as a text at our school that the charge for my copies will be cancelled).

Irwin-Humphrey-Johnson "Methods and Materials in
School Health Education" . . . . . . . . . .In Preparation

O'Keefe-Aldrich "Education Through Physical Activi-
ties" . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . - . . . . . . . . . .$4.50

Irwin-Humphrey "Principles and Techniques of Super»
vision In Physical Education" . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$4.50

__Bucher "Administration of School Health and Phys-

ical Education Programs" . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$5.50

Weiss-Phillips "Adminisrrarion of Tests in Physical
Education" . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$4.50

___Bucher "Methods and Materials in Physical Education

and Recreation” .‘ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$6.25

N AME—mPOSITION

CITY______—___I__________ZONE_—STATE_____—___
J of 11.955

SEPTEMBER 1955 349

3W6 €W€e¢

The following report, by Martin W.
Meyer, who is chairman of the Council
for the Advancement of Hospital Rec-
reation, presents the purposes of this
new organization.

Progress in recreation for the physi-
cally and mentally handicapped indi-
vidual, particularly within hospitals and
institutions, has been rapid since the
end of World War II and its direction
often confused. When three profes-
sional organizations began representing
the recreation leader functioning in this
area, it became apparent that the ener-
gies and talents of the leaders in hospi-
tal recreation were being greatly dissi-
pated by directives from the three and
were often working in different direc-
tions. A planning meeting was there-
fore called to discuss the problem. Rep-
resentatives of the Recreation Therapy
Section, Recreation Division of AAH-
PER, the Hospital Section of the ARS,
and the National Association of Recre-
ation Therapists, met informally with
the hospital consultant for the National
Recreation Association in the oflices of
the National Education Association in

Washington, D. C., on November 4,
1953.

At this meeting it was decided to form
The Council for the Advancement of
Hospital Recreation. The purposes of
the council were stated as follows:

1. To provide a structure enabling
professional organizations having mem-
bers performing recreation functions in
hospitals and institutions to work co-
operatively, to raise professional stand-
ards.

2. To provide a structure for joint
attack on problems; for example, bet-
ter public relations, a clearing house for
meetings, job analyses and classifica-
tion, recognition as a profession, in-
creased research, and recruiting quali-
lied candidates.

3. To provide a structure for solicit-

 

 

MRS. BEATRICE HILL is consultant on
hospital recreation for the National
Recreation Association.

350

 

Beatrice H. Hill

ing funds from philanthropic organiza-
tions or foundations.

4. To provide a structure for keep-
ing the participating organizations in-
formed of each other’s meetings, pub-
lications, and projects:

5. To explore the feasibility of amal-
gamating those professional organiza—
tions having members performing rec-
reational functions in hospitals and in-
stitutions.

One of the most pressing problems
facing the council was that of uniform
professional standards, which would
assure the patients in the hospitals
throughout the country of a recreation
service administered and directed by
recreation leaders with the highest pos-
sible qualifications. It was at first
thought that these standards should in-
clude only professionally trained recre-
ation leaders. Owing to budgetary limi-
tations and unavailability of trained
recreation leadership, however, a sub-
professional group is carrying a large
portion of the hospital program, partic-
ularly in state hospitals, and usually
under the supervision of one qualified
recreation leader. Therefore, it was
decided to include this sub-professional
group.

To date, these standards have been
approved by the Recreational Therapy
Section, AAHPER, and the National As-
sociation of Recreation Therapists. The
Hospital Section of the ARS will vote
on the standards during their next an-
nual meeting which will take place in
Denver, Colorado, September 25-26,
1955.

The last meeting, held on June 3,
1955, in Washington, was devoted to the
question of a voluntary national regis-
tration procedure. The proposed stand-
ards, when finally approved, will be the
criteria used for registration. Several
committees have been formed to study
all aspects of this important problem.
Their reports will be read at the next
meeting of'the council, at the 37th Na-
tional Recreation Congress and the an-
nual meeting of the American Recrea-
tion Society.

Books & Pamphlets
Received

ADVENTURES IN SINGING, Helen Sewall
Leavitt, Helen Bonney Kilduff, and
Warren S. Freeman. C. C. Birchard
& Company, 285 Columbus Avenue,
Boston 16. Pp. 128. $1.76, cloth;
$1.32, paper.

CAMPING HANDBOOK, Edmund H.Burke.
Arco Publishing Company, Inc., 480

Lexington Avenue, New York 17. Pp.
143. $2.00.

COMICS, TELEVISION AND CHILDREN,

Floyd Anderson. Ave Maria Press,
Notre Dame, Indiana. Pp. 23. $.10.

COMPLETE BOOK OF OUTDOOR COOK-
ERY, THE, Helen Evans Brown and
James A. Beard. Doubleday 31 Com-

pany, Inc., 575 Madison Avenue, New
York 22. Pp. 255. $53.95*

DEARBORN-JOHNSON READING KIT, Wal-
ter F. Dearborn and Philip W. John-
ston. Simon and Schuster, Inc., 630

Fifth Avenue, Rockefeller Center,
New York 20. $4.95.*

DESIGNING ELEMENTARY CLASSROOMS.
Superintendent of Documents, U. S.
Government Printing Oflice, Wash-

ington 25, D. C. Pp. 55. $.35.

How To MAKE IT-mRevised Edition,
Compiled by Emma Staudte. Cur-
riculum Laboratory, Teachers Col-

lege, Temple University, Philadel-
phia 22. Pp. 21. $.50.

HOW To SQUARE DANCE. The Colonial
Press, 1335 North Oakland, Decatur,
Illinois. Pp. 67. $1.00.

INDUSTRIAL RECREATION A GUIDE To
ITS ORGANIZATION AND ADMINISTRA-
TION, Jackson M. Anderson. McGraw-
Hill Book Company, Inc., 330 West
42nd Street, New York 36. Pp. 304.
$5.00.*

INDIVIDUAL SPORTS FOR MEN, John H.
Shaw, Carl A. Troester, Jr., and Mil-
ton A. Gabrielsen. W. B. Saunders

Company, West Washington Square,
Philadelphia 5. Pp. 402. $5.00.*

INDIVIDUAL SPORTS FOR WOMEN, Doro-

thy S. Ainsworth, editor. W. B. Saun-
ders Company, West Washington
Square, Philadelphia 5. Pp. 375.

$4.75.*

     

 

 

* These publications are available from the
National Recreation Association at list price
plus fifteen cents for each book ordered. to"
cover postage and handling. Active Assoczate
and A [liliate Members of the Association re-
ceive a ten per cent discount on list price.
Remittances should accompany orders from
individuals; organizations and recreation de-
partments will be billed on their ofIicial orders.
Address orders to Combined Book Service,

National Recreation Association, 8 West
Eighth Street, New York 11, New York.

RECREATION

 

Exploring Papier Mache
Victoria Bedford Betts. Davis Press,

Inc., Worcester, Massachusetts.

134. $6.00.

In a light-hearted, adventurous spirit,
this book presents ideas and methods
for making useful and varied objects
from papier maché. It emphasizes thor-
ough techniques combined with a wide
scope for exploration. All material is
graded, from the simplest forms for the
beginner to those suitable for profes.
'sional use.

Mrs. Betts has been closely associated
with children as a teacher of the arts
and crafts. She is a talented designer
and artist, and has conducted training
workshops for students and leaders in
the teaching and group work profes-
sions. She is also aware of a parent’s
need to understand basic arts and crafts
skills for use in the home. Therefore
numerous individual and group activi-
ties are presented that are applicable
for home, camp, school, recreation cen-
ter, and other areas where originality
and three-dimensional design add in-
terest. Such specific ideas are covered
as holiday decorations, party favors,
wall displays, figure and animal con-
struction, games, toys, and masks. De-
tails are described and illustrated.

The book has eye appeal with large
easy-to-read print, delightful line draw-
ings, and helpful photographs. You will
find it stimulating from cover to cover.
The last chapter includes an excellent
“sources and resources” that you will
certainly want to explorer—Shirley Sil-
bert, instructor at the Craft Students
League of the YWCA and at City Col-
lege Extension Division, New York
City, and president of the New York
Society of Craftsmen. ~

Pp.

Your Annual Meeting

Bernard Carp. National Publicity
Council for Health and Welfare Serv-
ices, 257 Fourth Avenue, New York 10.

Pp. 168. $3.50. ($2.50 to members
of the National Publicity Council.)

Things have been happening to meet-
ings in recent years. Round tables,
workshops, seminars, clinics are being
used more and more to increase group
participation in meetings and to im-

* See footnote on page 350.
i.

SEPTEMBER 1955

PUBLICATIONS

Covering the Leisure-time Field

prove the results of meetings. Greater
selectivity is being used in deciding
whether speaker, panel, symposium, de-
bate, or forum will best serve the pur-
pose of a meeting. Even dramatization
has become an effective tool in the
meeting situation — socio-drama, psy-
cho-drama, role playing.

Meetings whose forms are set are ben-
efiting from more careful planning,
greater participation of committees,
careful determination of purpose, better
publicity procedures, learning from this
year’s mistakes for a better meeting next
year.

Your Annual Meeting applies to the
annual meeting some of the recognized
principles of planning and conducting
meetings. Although the book is written
primarily for those concerned with an-
nual meetings, it should prove helpful
as a source of ideas which can be used
in many different situations. —R0bert

Gamble, Field Department, NRA.

This Is Dinosaur

Wallace Stegner, editor. Alfred A.
Knopf, Inc., 501 Madison Avenue, New
York 22. Pp. 97. $5.00."‘

Those who are interested in the great-
ly debated problem of conserving our
national parks, the controversy over
Dinosaur National Park, and all dele-
gates who are planning a trip through
mountain regions while in Denver,
should not miss this book. Mr. Stegner
does an excellent job of telling the story
of Dinosaur, building a case for its pres-
ervation, and points up the general sig—
nificance of national parks for the
American people. Beautiful illustrations
are included; and a striking brochure
about Dinosaur is enclosed in the book.

Playground Facilities for Rural
and Small Elementary Schools

Harold J. Cornacchia and John E.
Nixon. Stanford University Press, Stan-
ford, California. Pp. 43. $1.50.

Many shortcomings of rural and
small elementary schools can be attrib-
uted to inadequate playground space
and facilities, according to the authors
of this booklet which is the fourth in
a series of educational administration
monographs issued by the Stanford
School Planning Laboratory. Few in-

stitutions in rural areas have anything
approaching a d e q u a t e playground
areas, according to the authors. The
chief purpose of the monograph is to
demonstrate the “need for larger ele-
mentary school sites in specific terms
through the presentation of actual space
requirements of various play areas
needed in an adequate physical educa-
tion and recreation program for differ-
ent-sized schools.”

Consideration has been given to the
activities comprising the physical edu-
cation program, the Spaces, facilities
and equipment essential for a suitable
learning environment and the proper
arrangement of the spaces and equip-
ment within the available area.

After stating the general principles
that serve as a guide in determining the
adequacy of school playgrounds, the
authors indicate three basic areas to be
essential: the apparatus area, the hard-
surface area, and the turf, natural, or
stabilized soil area.

The authors have made a sound ap-
proach to the development of space re-
quirements on the basis of the specific
needs of schools of different sizes with
special reference to apparatus, court
games, and field sports. The space re-
quirements of these activities have been
illustrated by charts showing suitable
arrangements for the various areas. The
material in this monograph should be
exceedingly useful to all who are con-
cerned with the planning and use of play
areas in small communities.

The authors recognize that the school
playground also serves as a community
play area and have made space allow-
ances for community use. It seems clear,
however, that they have thought pri-
marily in terms of out-of—school use by
children and of activities related to phy-
sical education. No provision is made
for such features as a wading pool or
facilities for table games or quiet activ-
ities. The space suggested for the turf
or natural area is too small to permit
its use by older youth or adults for
games such as softball. No suggestion
is made that seats or benches be pro-
vided near the apparatus areas, game
courts or fields, as would be most de-
sirable on a community play area.

It is unfortunate that, in view of the
authors’ emphasis on the need for larger
playgrounds, the space proposed for
several activities seems inadequate.
For example, a much larger area than
thirty-five by thirty-five feet would
seem to be required for a game in a
thirty-foot circle—in fact, in the designs
more space is allotted to it. Similarly
only five feet is allowed at the end of
each volleyball court—a distance which
is inadequate if the area immediately
adjoining is to be used for another ac-
tivity.

351

In spite of these minor shortcomings
the monograph is a welcome addition
to the literature on the subject. —
George D. Butler, Research Depart—

ment, NRA.

Municipal Golf Course

Verne Wickham, Editor. National
Golf Foundation, lnc., 407 South Dear-
born Street, Chicago 5, Illinois. Pp.

T20. $3.00.

Any community or group interested
in organizing or operating a municipal
golf course has reason to be grateful to
the National Golf Foundation for hav-
ing prepared the volume Municipal Golf
Course. This publication, which is pro-
fusely illustrated with photographs,
plans, and administrative forms, deals
with both the organization and opera-
tion of courses.

The first section of the book presents
basic reasons why a community should
provide a municipal golf course, con-
siders the various methods of financing
the acquisition and construction of a
course, and discusses the basis for es-
tablishing green fees and other charges.
The section dealing with Operation con-
tains much practical information with
reference to such factors as reserva-
tions, rules .and regulations for play,
public relations, routine maintenance
practices, pro shop and food conces-
sions, operating personnel and club or-
ganization.

Of special value are the charts and
tables containing information as to
revenues and operating costs, green
fees, special rates and reservations at
courses in one hundred cities. The vol-
ume also contains financial reports and
personnel charts used in a number of
cities.

Calypso r

Jo Culbertson. The John C. Winston
Company, T010 Arch Street, Philadel-
phia 7, Pennsylvania. Pp. 73. ST .50.*

Mrs. Culbertson analyzes and gives
instruction in this new, four-trump
game in a very clear and readable man-
ner. From her book, we would guess
this new game to be more interesting
than canasta. Try it on your bridge and
canasta clubs. It’s fun to be first with
a new game!

Art Activities Almanac,

1955 Edition

Wayne University Press, Detroit 1,
Michigan. Pp. 96 (in sheet form).

$2.50. (Discounts for trade and li-

brary, also twenty per cent discount
for group users.)

A “must” for craft departments and
leaders. Individual sheets give graphic
instruction for arts and crafts projects
in various media. Excellent for play-
ground and camps as well as for the

352

indoor center or service club. Includes
holiday pro ects as well. Organized into
beginning and advanced art activities,
this collection includes eighty projects,
selected for all age levels, skill levels,
and year-round use—Virginia Mussel-
man, Program Service, NRA.

Group Work in Community'Life

Edited by Clyde E. Murray, Marx G.
Bowens, Russel Hogrefe. Association
Press, 291 Broadway, New York 7.
Pp. 245. $4.75.* '

This book will open many eyes to
the implications of the use of the group
work method in working with pe0ple
outside the recreation setting of an or-
ganized community center or desig-
nated play area. In fact only a small
portion of it is-concerned with recrea-
tion in any form. The publication deals
more directly with individual group de-
velopment toward a more acceptable
community behavior pattern, and to-
ward greater participation and action
on neighborhood and /or community
problems.

Here is a collection of group work
agency experiences, in various neigh—
borhood and community settings and
situations, which reveal how the group
work method was brought to bear on
the living conditions and group behav-
ior patterns in a slum area, a defense
impacted area with trailer villages and
temporary housing, the street gang in
their own locale, and miscellaneous ex-
periences in related situations.

In their conclusions the authors point
out that from a scientific point of view
the eXperiences, in the settings described
here, are far from complete because of
the lack of good written recordings by
the workers involved. One feels as one
reads the book that there are many un-
answered questions as to techniques
used, result of worker and group ac-
tions, and the need for more objective
analysis as projects proceeded. These
are not serious shortcomings, however.

The reviewer would recommend this
book as a good reference and resource
for any worker or leader who might be
called upon to work in a similar setting,
and as “must” reading for those who
would like to broaden their understand-
ing of the group work method in com-

munity life outside the traditional rec-'

reation setting—John J. Collier, Acting
Pacific Southwest District-Representa-
tive, National Recreation Association.

Introduction to
Recreation Education

John H. Jenny. W. B. Saunders Com—

pany, West Washington Square Phil-
adelphia 5. Pp. 310. $4.50.*

Dr. Jenny, who is associate professor
and coordinator of the recreatlon cur-

riculum at Temple University, Philadel-
phia, presents good material for student
background reading to reach an under-
standing of the present day need for
recreation services and of what they
should consist. He brieHy traces recrea-
tion history through the ages, illustrat-
ing its pace in man’s daily life. The re-
mainder of the book is devoted to lead-
ership, program, and facilities, with a
chapter on financing, also one on em-
ployee recreation, and one on hOSpital
recreation. An appendix presents job
evaluation forms, oral interview rating
forms, and others. Each chapter is fol-
lowed by a bibliography.

Executive Responsibility

Ray Johns. Association Press, 291
Broadway, New York 7. Pp. 258. $4.00.

Although it was published last fall,
we have not previously had room to do
other than list this hook; and we call it
to the attention of administrators and
leaders now, rather than skip it alto-
gether. Written in the light of recent
studies in business and industry, pri-
marily for executives of voluntary and
public community service organizations,
it deals with: specific areas of responsi-
bilities—boards, staff, finances, service;
elements of the administrative process
—communication, decision making, au-
thority, leadership; and with the human
relationships involved in organizational
activity. Suggestions for further read-
ing follow each chapter. Dr. John’s book
is for the thoughtful, progressive execu-
tive who wants to improve his own per-
formance and who realizes the value of
proven administrative principles and
practices.

INDEX OF ADVERTISERS

PAGE
All-Metal Tennis Table Company .............. -_ 301
American Playground Device Company ____ -_ 305
Artcratt Services, Inc ............................... -- 341
Association Press ........................... -- 297
California State Personnel Board._--,,.n--.  340
Pete Carver _.. ..................................... -- 345
Chicago Roller Skate Company_-_-_---__-__--_-- 297
The Copper Shop ..__ .........................  297
Hillerich & Bradsby Company _.. ...... m... 311
Jaytro Athletic Supply Company ............... -- 297
The MacGregor Company ....................... -- 341
W. R. Moody Company .... _____________________ -- 343
C. V. Mosby Company ....................... -- 349
Porter Sargent ........ -: ......................... -- 341
Rawlings Sporting Goods Company-_---------- 301
The Seamless Rubber Company ... ............. __ 303
Square Dance Associates“... .................. -_ 297
Tandy leather Company -.-.  -.  297
Tri-King Enterprises, Inc. .  - __ -- -..- 301

W. J. Voit Rubber Corporation, Inside front cover
X-acto, Inc. ............................. -...,.. 341

 

 

 

RECREATION

Recreation Leadership Courses

Sponsored by the National Recreation Association
and

Local Recreation Agencies

September, October and November, 1955

HELEN M, DAUNCEY Atchison, Kansas Gordon J. Guetzlafi, Superintendent of Recreation, City Hall
Social Recreation OCtOber 10'13
Wilmette, Illinois Russell A. Perry, Superintendent, Wilmette Recreation Board,
October 17-20 726 Ridge Road
Marion County, Alabama Solon Gregg, County Superintendent of Schools, Hamilton

October 31-November 3

Washington County, Alabama T. B. Pearson, County Superintendent of Schools, Chatom

November 7-10
Sumter County, Alabama E. W. Mellown, County Superintendent of Schools, Livingston
November 14-17
Perry County, Alabama L. C. Walker, County Superintendent of Schools, Marion
November 28-December 1
ANNE LIVINGSTON Wellington, Kansas Mrs. T. T. Word, 111 East Maple
Social Recreation september 19'22
Clovis, New Mexico Robert Vivian, Box 629
October 10-13
Lubbock, Texas A. C. Hamilton, Superintendent of Recreation, City Hall
October 17-20
Fort Worth, Texas Harry Taylor, Director of Recreation
October 24-27
Abilene, Texas Scott Fikes, Park and Recreation Department
October 31-November 3
Wichita Falls, Texas Spencer Ellis, Director of Parks and Recreation
November 7-10
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma Walter Gray, Jr., Community Workshop, Oklahoma Library Divi-
November 14-17 sion, 3rd and Robinson
GRACE WALKER United States Assembly of Miss Bernice Bridges, Director, Education-Recreation Services.
Creative Recreation Youth National Social Welfare Assembly, Inc., 345 East 46th Street, New
Oberlin, Ohio York
September 8-13
FRANK A, STAPLES St. Paul, Minnesota Ernest W. Johnson, Director of Public Recreation, 445 City Hall
Arts and Crafts september 19'21

Helen M. Dauncey and Anne Livingston of the training staff will be in attendance at the National Recreation Congress, Denver,
September 27-October 1, 1955.

 

Attendance at training courses conducted by National Recreation Association leaders is usually open to all who wish to attend. For
details as to location of the institute, contents of course, registration procedure, and the like, communicate with the sponsor of
the course as listed above.

R EC a EATI o N
8 West Eighth Street, New York 11, N. Y.

 

RETURN POSTAGE GUARANTEED
Entered as second class matter

 

Mr. Daniels
was willing to
be bombed

 

ADMIRALS smiled when, in 1921, he

claimed air power could sink battleships.
And Mr. Josephus Daniels, the Navy secre-
tary, said he was “prepared to stand bare-
headed on the deck of a battleship and let
General Mitchell take a crack at me with
bombing airplane.”

But in an actual test, the most heavily
armored dreadnaught ever built sank in
minutes under the sledge-hammer blows of
the world’s first l-ton bombs—bombs built
to Billy Mitchell’s order.

Mitchell was used to disbelief. In World
War I, Pershing called his idea for dropping
infantry by parachute absurd. “Experts”
laughed when he talked of putting cannon
in planes, scoffed when he predicted air
speeds way in excess of 200 miles.

In his early fight for a strong air force,
Mitchell saw very dark days. Yet he never
lost faith in the American people, nor they
in him. For they recognized his clear fore-
sight and great fighting heart as part of the
real American spirit.

It is this courageous spirit that makes
America strong—so strong, in fact, that our
country’s Savings Bonds are regarded as
one of the finest investments in the world.

Why not take advantage of that strength?
Use United States Savings Bonds to guard
your future, and your country’s future. In-
vest in them regularly—and hold onto them.

 

It’s actually easy to save money—when you
buy United States Series E Savings Bonds
through the automatic Payroll Savings Plan
where you work! You just sign an application
at your pay office; after that your saving is
done for you. And the Bonds you receive will
pay you interest at the rate of 3% per year, com-
pounded semiannually, for as long as 19 years
and 8 months if you wish! Sign up today! Or,
if you’re self-employed, invest in Bonds regu-
larly where you hank. There’s no surer place
to put your money, for United States Savings
Bonds are as safe as America!

52%? as America-:-
5! Sailings Bonds

 

The U-S- Government do” not PM for this advertisement. It is donated by this publication in cooperation with' 'tlio
Advertising Council and the Magazine Publisher: of America.

