 

THE PLAY SCULPTURE
DEVELOPED THROUGH

RESEARCH BY RECREATIONAL
CONSULTANTS

g
198
r------‘

I For the budget conscious
. . . half a SATELLITE
I is better than none! '

L-----_J

One-half segment remains solidly
in place on tanbark, sand, gravel,
turf. Can also be placed against
outside wall of existing building.

Send for our descriptive

factual brochure.

 

l206 North Rock Hill Road

 

Educators applaud the SATELLITE'S ability to draw children to the
playground, stimulate group play, provide countless hours of
healthful playtime activity.

Young eyes see it as a space ship, a cave, an igloo, a submarine,
a giant bee hive. Rigid steel pipe extending through center open-
ing and over the side becomes a “fireman's pole" to slide down.
Cargo net down side converts the SATELLITE into a pirate ship.

Designed by a group of recreation engineers, developed through
the cooperation of recreation leaders throughout the country.

Studies indicate that children of all ages respond to the playtime
appeal of the SATELLITE. Many recreational supervisors provide
separate units for each age group.

Challenging but safe, the SATELLITE'S rounded corners, sturdy

construction, lack of moving parts provide the maximum in safety,
the minimum in maintenance.

Overall dimensions 5V2’ by 12’. Constructed of permanent pneu-
matically applied reinforced concrete. Covered with a non-scuff,

non-skid epoxy resin coating. Available in IO Planetary colors.
Color permeates concrete eliminating costly yearly repaints.

Interchangeable half-domes in 6 imaginative designs . . . combine

any two for variety and interest.

SATELLITE DIVISION

MIDWEST POOL AND COURT COMPANY

St. Louis IT, Missouri

 

Q, FOR SUPERIOR DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION
i ‘ AND PERFORMANCE . . . FAR GREATER

STRENGTH . . . UNEQUALLED SAFETY. . .

    
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
      
 
       
    

  . . "T , PLAYGROUND
%¢ 02 I  h SWIMMING POOL
® - '  _ and onsssme ROOM

Sports Equipment    E Q U I P M E N 'I'

Since 19" the Anest equipment built,
backed by lifetime guarantee against
defective materials and construction

. . specified by leading recreational
authorities for almost half a century.

Send for New Catalog
See your. IoraI MacGregor Dealer w,.-.. a, pow" 

On AMERICAN’S
nuns-nu ll ®

JIM PATTERSON
LIFETIME
CINCINNATI - CHICAGO - NEW YORK - LOS ANGELES

Aluminum
D I V I N G

B O A R D
WORLD'S rmssr

OFFICIAL BOARD

AMERICAN
PLAYGROUND DEVICE CO.

ANDERSON, INDIANA, U.S.A.

WORLD'S Lucas? MANUFAC'URERS or rm:
nan, mcnrc, PLAYGROUND. swanqu
room mo onessnc aooa EOUIPMEN“

   
  
      
       
 

 
   

      
  
      

n

\ —.

HIllERIEHBIAII am

for the famous
oval trade-mark
on the bat
you buy...

1 APRIL 1956 W hen writing to our atlwrtisurs plI-aso mention RECREATION. 141-0

146

 

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
A Service Organization Supported by Voluntary Contributions

JOSEPH PRENDERCAST, Executive Dzrector

 

NATIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE FOR THE

INTERNATIONAL RECREATION SERVICE

OF THE NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION

 

The horizon shows much of international import for recreation in the 50th Anniversary
Year Of the National Recreation Association.
' The International Recreation Congress in Philadelphia is anticipated eagerly by recreation
leadersiin all parts of the world. The Cooperative Community Recreation Project, with assist-
ance by the State Department’s International Educational Exchange Service and with hospital-
ity promised by scOres of American cities, is another of the many projects involving the Inter-

national Recreation Service and its National Advisory Committee.

Through the activities of this service and its advisory committee the recreation knowledge
and experience Of many countries are being exchanged for the benefit of all.

AUSTIN WELCH—Chairman

Washington, D. C.

THOMAS W. LANTz—Vice-Chairman
Tacoma, Washington

PAT ARERNETIIY
Arlington, Virginia

H. S. CALLOWHILL
Baltimore, Maryland

LOUIS A. CANARELLI
Newark, New Jersey

VIRGINIA CARMICIIAEL
Atlanta, Georgia

CHARLES B. CRANFORD
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

JOHN P. CRONIN
Providence, Rhode Island

HOWARD C. DANFORD
Tallahassee, Florida

COLONEL FRANK M. DAVENPORT
Chicago, Illinois

HERE A. DAVIS
Cincinnati, Ohio

D. PAUL DECKER
Norfolk, Virginia

TAM DEERINc
Marysville, Washington

MRS. PERMELIA M. DUNN
New Orleans, Louisiana

ALVIN R. EcchINc
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma

THE REY. LARRY EISIzNRERc
Nashville, Tennessee

T. E. RIVERS—Executive Secretary

New York, New York

GARRETT G. EPPLEY
Bloomington, Indiana

G. B. FITZGERALD
Minneapolis, Minnesota

ALAN L. HEIL

Montclair, New Jersey

MYRON N. HENDRICK
Niagara Falls, New YOrk

L. B. HOUSTON
Dallas, Texas

RAYMOND E. HOYT
San Francisco, California

HoWARD W. JOHNSTON
Silver Spring, Maryland

RAYMOND S. KIMRELL
San Francisco, California

RAY KOOI
Dearborn, Michigan

DAVID M. LANGKAMMER
Altoona, Pennsylvania

DOROTIIEA LENSCH
Portland, Oregon

STEPHEN H. MAIIONEY
Cambridge, Massachusetts

R. B. MCCLINTOCK
Omaha, Nebraska

RUTH McINTIRE
Amherst, Massachusetts

HAROLD D. MEYER, Vice-Chairman
Chapel Hill, North Carolina

WILLIAM A. MOORE
Louisville, Kentucky

SALVATORE PREZIOSO
White Plains, New York

MRS. VERNA RENstLD
Kansas City, Missouri

J. A. REYNOLDS
Richmond, Virginia

G. OTT ROMNEY
Alexandria, Virginia

0. C. RosE
Chicago, Illinois

J. EARL SCHLUPP
Denver, Colorado

HENRY D. SCHUEERT
Dearborn, Michigan

GEORGE E. SEEDHOUSE
Cleveland, Ohio

BEVERLY S. SHEFFIELD
Austin, Texas

CLARENCE L. THOMAS
Dayton, Ohio

JAY M. VER LEE
Oakland, California

CHARLIE VETTINER
Louisville, Kentucky

ELWYN WARD
Greenville, Mississippi

RECREATION

APRIL 1956

 

Editor in Chief, JOSEPH PRENDERGAST
Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON
Editorial Assistant, AMELIA HENLY
Business Manager, ALFRED H. WILSON

ASSOCIATE EDITORS

Recreation Administration, GEORGE BUTLER
Program Activities, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

Vol. XLIX Price 50 Cents No. 4

0n the Cover

“Happy Dayze. On the playground and in the
parks—spring and summer bring the dearly beloved
clowns of circuses, parades, fairs, and carnivals to
the children of America. Delighted four-year-old is
Mary Suzanne Reed. Picture courtesy of her photog-
rapher father, Francis Reed, and the Employees
Bulletin—both of Weirton Steel Company, Weirton,
West Virginia.

Next Month

Two articles on the setting-up of community ten-
nis programs should be helpful. In observation of
National Music Week: “The World’s Largest Piano
Class” and “Summer Music.” Among other articles:
“Skin and Scuba Diving,” presenting results of an
American Red Cross study of these subjects; “What
of Parks in Ohio ?” and other program articles.

Photo Credits

Page 150, Department of Recreation, Philadel-
phia; 154, Coffeyville Recreation Department,
Kans.; 155, Sunday Streak, Charleston, W. Va.; 156,
Freelance Commercial Photographers,Norfolk, Va.;
165, Ray C. Erickson, U. S. Fish and Wildlife Serv-
ice; 166 (bottom), 167, R. Marvin Wilson, Cleve-
land Heights, Ohio; 168, Board of Park Commis-
sioners, Lexington, Ky.; 169 (left), Recreation
Commission, Mount Vernon, N. Y. (right), West-
chester County Publishers, Inc., Photo Bureau; 170,
The Battle Creek Enquirer and News, Mich.; 172-
173, Kondreck Studios, Belleville, N. J.; 179 (top),
The Lexington Herald, Ky.; 182, Swimming Pool
Age; 188, University of New Hampshire.

9’

RECREATION is published monthly except July and
August by the National Recreation Association. a service
organization supported by voluntary contributions. at 8
West Eighth Street, New York 11, New York. is on
Iile_1n public libraries and is indexed in the Reader:’
Guide. Subscriptions $4.00 a year. Canadian and for-
eign subscription rate 34.50. Re-entered as second-class
matter April 25. 1950, at the Post OEce in New York.
New York. under ACt of March 3. 1879. Acceptance
for mailing at Special rate of pOStage provided for in
Secrion 1103, Aer of Ocrober 3. 1917. authorized May
1, 1924. Microfilms of current issues available Uni-

versity Microlilms. 313 N. Firsr Street. Ann Arbor,
Michigan.

Space Representatives: H. Thayer Heaton, 141 East
44th Street, New York 17, New York; Mark Minahan.
168 North Michigan Avenue. Chicago. Illinois; Keith
H. Evans. 3757 Wilshire Boulevard, Los Angeles 5. and
593 Market Street. Suite 304. San Francisco 5.
California.

Copyright, 1956. by the
National Recreation Association, Incorporated

\"'0

Printed in the U.S.A. a...
«£3918 ""

i
e."s

‘ Trade mark regisrered in U. 5. Patent OEce.

APRIL 1956

 

 

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

CONTENTS

GENERAL FEATURES

Mere Play (Editorial) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Howartl Braucher 148
International Recreation Congress . . . . . . . . . . . . . .‘ . . . . . . . . . 150
Ingenuity on Our Playgrounds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 154
Little Big Shots (“Gang” Trouble?) . . . . . ..John A. Kraft, Jr. 158
The Teen-ager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Anthony G. Ley 160
Junior Recreation Leaders (Personnel) . . . . . . . . .Dave 2001: 162
TV Selects Playground Athletics . . . . . . . . . .R. B. IlIcClintock 163
Gustavus Town Kirby (In Memoriam) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 171
May Day When I Was Only Six

Years Old . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Hazel Streeter Davenport 177
Fly a Clean Flag . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 189
Plastic Construction Kits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .John Carr D1119t 192
ADMINISTRATION
Conditioning and Maintenance of Baseball

Diamonds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .C. 0. Brown 168

All Improvised Play Community . . . . . . . . . . .Robert E. Cook 172

Swimming Pool Operation and Maintenance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 182

Notes for the Administrator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 184

Softball Safety Aids . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 185
PROGRAM
A Park Creative Playshop . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Robert Chambers 166
Marionette Show Wagon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .R. Foster Blaisdell 175
Playground Dragon Making . . . . . . . . . . . . . .May Day Walden 176
Terrariums You Can Make

(How To Do It!) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Frank A. Staples 178
A Playground “Live Report”

(Idea of the Month) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Anna S. Pherigo 179
Teen-agers in Good Standing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Ruth Strode 180
Uranium Hunt . . . . . . . . . .Robert Zech and John C. Gillespie 181

REGULAR FEATURES

Things You Should Know . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 149

Letters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 151

Reporter’s Notebook . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 164-

How To Do It! Idea of the Month . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .See Program

Personnel—Personnel Review 1955 . . . . . . . . W. C. Sutherland 186

On the Campus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Alfred B. Jensen 188

Suggestion Box . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 190

. Market News . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 194

Listening and Viewing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 196

Books and Pamphlets Received, Magazine Articles . . . . . . . . . . 198

New Publications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 199

Index of Advertisers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 200

Recreation Leadership Training Courses . . . . . .Inside Back Cover
147

148

‘ Editorial ’

 

I IE IS ONLY a play leader.” “He has nothing to do with the

serious work of the world.” “In our classes we prepare children
for business, for earning a living, for work.”

Only a play and recreation leader! Only a person who helps a
child to live in the glorious present moment; to do the thing that
gives the utmost satisfaction; to knock out a home run on the base-
ball field; to swim, to dive; to fashion a miniature airplane that
with rubber-band power stays aloft for ten minutes; to build water
wheels that run; to tramp the woods and learn the trees and wild
Howers; to learn the call of the birds; to sing, to dance, to be gay.

Only a play leader. Nothing to do with the serious work of life.
Merely helping a child to be light-hearted, to live simply, beauti-
fully, naturally, in the present, to spread laughter and gaiety and

reality all about him. Helping children to be themselves, really to
M live—when they might be learning to work, preparing for business.
 Think of the training for work and business these children might

have if these hours were not given to play. If only the play leaders
would use these hours to train the children through their play in

principles of buying and selling, of banking and trade. Instead
Pl they waste the children’s time with music and dancing and poetry

 

Howard Braucher

and fairy tales and idle games that are to have no part in serious
life later.

0 folly, folly. Have we lived so long in the presence of little
children, so near to the heart of God, stood on such holy ground,
watched the flame in the burning bush, and with our profane lips
dare we prattle of what is serious, of what has permanent value,
and talk of using the play hours of little children as a time for train-
ing for work and trade, and say only a play leader?

Play is the serious business of childhood. The play of a little
child is the most serious thing in all the world. Play is a part of a
great whole. Play builds the cathedral of life. Play gives meaning
to the world.

The play leader helps to build a world in which no longer is
living always postponed until a future time that never comes; in
which child and man alike are not afraid to live in the present; in
which the present has at least equal value with the future; in which

This editorial, written by life itself is exalted; in which the end—growth, fulfillment, abun-
Howard Braucher ill 1934., dant living—is exalted beyond any of the parts that go to make
is used in this issue in his up the whole.

honor—as an observance Only a play leader. The hope of the future lies in the preserva-
of the Fiftieth Anniversary tion of childhood, in winning grown people to the wisdom and
of the National Recreation simplicity of children. “Except ye become as little children, ye
Association, of which he was shall not enter into the kingdom.”

leader for so many years. ——Howard Brauclier

RECREATION

 

   

0..

O THE CHALLENGE OF THE NEW LEI-
SURE has become an important topic for
the popular magazines. Latest of these
to hop on the bandwagon are: Time,
with an a rticle, “Automation,” in-
cluding six color pages, in the March
19 issue; Holiday, in its tenth anniver-
sary issue (March), with almost the en-
tire issue devoted tO “The New Leisure.”
Tide, the magazine for marketing man-
agement, has published the first Of a se-
ries of four articles. Part I, which ap-
pears in the March 10, 1956 issue under
the title, “More Time to Consume,” car-
ries a statement by Joseph Prendergast,
executive director of the National Rec-

reation Association.

0 ACCIDENT STATISTICS: Of the 31,201

school jurisdiction accidents reported to
the National Safety Council for the
1953-54 school year, twenty-six per cent
occurred in connection with unorgan-
ized play activities——including the -use
of apparatus. Thevaverage was five per
cent for all grades. But this figure is
deceptively low, since a youngster’s use
of playground a p p a r a tu s decreases
steadily each year with his growth of
interest in games and sports, and there
is almost no use of playground appara-
tus on the part of many high school stu-
dents. Among kindergarten youngsters,
whose interest in playground apparatus
is high, twenty per cent of all the acci-
dents which occurred were apparatus
accidents.

0 GOLDEN ANNIVERSARY BIRTHDAY
PARTIES are being planned for several of
the spring district recreation confer-
ences this year, in connection with the
NRA’S fiftieth birthday on April 12.
Also, outgoing members of NRA’s dis-
trict advisory committees will be award-
ed attractive certificates Of appreciation.

O AMONG NEW MATERIALS AVAILABLE
FROM THE NRA: How to Achieve Pro-
fessional Growth on the Job, prepared
by educators and recreation leaders
under the direction of Dr. Paul Doug-
lass, $.25; Basic Concepts for a Creative
Program in Community Recreation,
I prepared by the National Advisory
Committee on Recreation Programs and
' Activities of the NRA, free upon re-
quest;.My Job, I...Lihe-It.’ .by Nathan

APRIL 1956

7W 7;.“ save: Km.

Mallison, superintendent of recreation
in Jacksonville, also free.

0 NEW POPULAR-PRICED EDITION of a
Treasury of Living, by Howard Brauch-
er, recreation philosopher and the late
president of the National Recreation As-
sociation, is also available from the As-
sociation at $1.50 per copy. Raymond
B. Fosdick, famed New York religious
leader, writes in the foreword, “Howard
Braucher preached the gospel of play
as an essential part of life. Because so
much of what he wrote has lasting
value, not only for recreation workers
but for all who are interested in the
well-being Of mankind, selections from
his writings are here presented in a sin-
gle volume.”

0 ANNOUNCING THE INVENTORY
BLUES! Overstock packages of NRA
publications are available at bargain
prices. The first three hundred persons
who order OS #1, at $1.12, will re-
ceive: one crafts publication which lists
at $1.50; one theory publication which
lists at $.60; one drama publication
which lists at $.50; two nature publica-
tions, a new “surprise” pamphlet, and
other odds and ends. A pig-in-a-poke,
to be sure, but you’ll get your money’s
worth!

0 1956 WILL MARK THE THIRTY~THIRD
ANNUAL OBSERVANCE OF NATIONAL MU-
SIC WEEK. The dates for this year: May
6 to 13. The theme: “Music Keeps Your
Life in Tune.” A Letter of Suggestions
containing ideas for Music Week activi-

ties may be obtained by writing to Na-
tional Music Week, NRA headquarters.

0 RECREATION STUDENTS NOW CAN OB-
TAIN MEMBERSHIP SERVICES at a special
reduced rate through the new Student
Associate Membership plan announced
in February by NRA. Student Associate
Members enrolled full time at colleges
and universities save twenty per cent
on associate membership, receive all

membership services for only $4.00 per
year. For further details, write NRA

Recreation Personnel Service.

0 THE EIGHTY-THIRD ANNUAL MEET-

ING of the National Conference of Social
Work will be held at St. Louis, Missouri,
from May 20-25. For information,

 

write to the National Conference of So-
cial Work, 22 West Gay Street, Colum-

bus 15, Ohio.

0 DON’T FORGET that Joseph Lee Day
occurs on the last Friday in July. Joseph
Lee was one of the founders Of the Na-
tional Recreation Association and it
would be most fitting to pay him espe-
cial honor in this, the Fiftieth Anniver-
sary Year Of the Association.

9 ACCORDING TO A MARKET REPORT
just published by Swimming Pool Age
(formerly Beach & Pool magazine) it
is estimated that 20,000 swimming pools
were built in 1955, and that at least
30,000 will be constructed in ’56. They
say, “We can easily see the possibility
of hundreds of thousands of pools with-
in the next five to ten years.”

0 A CRITICAL SHORTAGE OF PHYSICAL
THERAPISTS is seriously impeding the
national rehabilitation program. There
is now an urgent need for 5,800 quali-
fied people to fill jobs throughout the
country. For additional information,
request brochure, Physical Therapy,

from American Physical Therapy Asso-
ciation, 1790 Broadway, New York 19,
New York.

Faculty Chosen

Faculty for the First National
Institute in Recreation Adminis-
tration to be held October 1 and
2, 1956 at the Philadelphia

Congress:

Dr. James E. Charlesworth
Secretary of Administration
0flce of the Governor
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania

Dr. Stanford Kight
Director, Group D y na m ics
Center
University of Delaware

Dr. Stephen B. Sweeney
Director, Institute of Local and
State Government
University of Pennsylvania

Robert W. Crawford
Commissioner of Recreation

Philadelphia
Charles B. Cranford

Superintendent of Recreation
Philadelphia
Dr. Paul F. Douglass
Chairman, NRA National Ad-
visory Committee on Recruit-
ment, Training, and Place-
ment of Recreation Personnel

Information about the special

course and application forms are
available now from NRA’s Rec-

reation Personnel Service. (See
also, International R e c r e a t 1 O n
Congress, opposite page.) avast—r

149

October 1-5, 1956

International
Recreation

Congress

International participation is assured for the Interna-
tional Recreation Congress which is to be held in Phila-
delphia, October 1-5, 1956. Recreation leaders in the fol-
lowing countries have thus far indicated their intention of
attending, and more replies are being received daily: Cam-
bodia, Canada, Egypt, England, Germany, India, Iran, Iraq,
Israel, Japan, Netherlands, South Africa, Sweden, Taiwan.

New Feature

A twelve-hour Institute in Recreation Administration
which will give on-the-job executives an unusual opportu-
nity for a refresher course and possible college credit, will
be one of the new features introduced at the International
Congress. This course, with attendance limited to lifty, is
being planned by a sub-committee of the National Recrea-
tion Association’s National Advisory Committee on Re-
cruitment, Training, and Placement of Recreation Person-
nel. The sub-committee, headed by Robert Crawford,
Philadelphia’s commissioner of recreation, includes George
Hjelte, general manager of recreation and parks, Los An-
geles; Dr. John L. Hutchinson, Columbia University; Ray-
mond T. Forsberg, superintendent of recreation, Waterloo,
Iowa; Paul Douglass, chairman of the National Advisory
Committee; and W. C. Sutherland, director of the National
Recreation Association’s Personnel Service.

The course will consist of three four-hour sessions begin-
ning Monday morning, October 1, and ending Tuesday
afternoon, October 2, the opening days of the International
Congress. The staff of instructors is now being recruited
and will include not only outstanding leaders in the field of
recreation but also in important areas of administration.
The registration fee will be $10.00, exclusive of the regular
Congress registration fee of 35.00. The theme of the course
is “Advancing the Frontiers of Administration.” Full de-
tails will be published later. Because of the limited number
who can be accommodated, registration in advance will be
required. Formal application blanks will be sent to all rec-
reation executives as soon as they are available. Meanwhile,
inquiries can be addressed to Institute in Recreation Ad-
ministration, 8 West Eighth Street, New York 11, New York.

150

 

 

__ .a ,0. - W '-
< n, -. ° I ,K
1. ‘6 9.-
v it”
No,» . '
.

.. ’“x

Philadelphia is famed for its modern playground de-
velopment. At Chelton Hills Playground a life-size
horse sculptured in bronze appears to be.a wary steed.

New Pamphlet

A new pamphlet about the International Congress is be-
ing printed and will replace the original leaflet published
and widely distributed last summer. It will be available
soon, and will give many more details about the Congress.

Program

Handicapped—Congress sessions on recreation in hospitals
have been a part of every year’s program since 1948. This
year a series of sessions is being planned on “Recreation
for the Ill and Handicapped,” thus broadening considerably
the nature of this important part of the Congress program.
A distinguished advisory committee is being organized to
assist with the planning of this part of the International
Congress program.

Planning Committees—Committees are hard at work on the
Congress sessions for supervisors, on recreation in town and
country, on recreation for business and industrial employ-
ees; and, of course, the Philadelphia Local Arrangements
Committee is at work on the important preparations which

must be made in Philadelphia for entertaining delegates to
a world congress.

National Advisory Committees—Several of the National
Recreation Association’s national advisory committees will
also be called upon to assist in the planning Of this year’s
program: The Committee on Recruitment, Training, and
Placement which will help with other sessions of the Con-
gress as well as the Institute in Recreation Administration;
the Committee on Recreation Programs and Activities has
been asked to assist with advice on demonstrations and
workshops; the Committee on Recreation Administration
has been asked to make recommendations on sessions for
recreation executives. Those on Defense-Related Services,
Federal Recreation, Recreation Research, and State Recrea-
tion will also present suggestions for their related parts of
the Congress program. As reported in RECREATION last
month, the National Advisory Committee for the Interna-

tional Recreation Service is serving as the United States
Advisory Committee for the Congress. I

RECREATION

 

o o a ' 'I

a a a o ' . '-

- I I - a.

u I o o I.

a o n n I.

IIIIIII I.

on.
........ .-

  

 

Readers! You are invited to send letters for this page

to Editor, RECREATION, 8 West Eighth Street, New
York 11—so that your ideas, opinions and attitudes
may be exchanged with others on the wide range of
subjects of concern to us all. Here is your chance to
agree or disagree with the authors of our articles.
Keep letters brief—~not more than 250 words.

From the Foundations

Sirs:

At a time when all of us are making
plans for summer playgrounds, Virginia
Musselman’s article, “Firming the Foun-
dations,” in the February issue of REC-
REATION, is indeed a challenge. I know
that I, for one, will take a fresh look
at our plans and approach them with a
critical ob ective viewpoint.

It’s very easy to be complacent and
use all the tried and true ideas over and
over. It’s much more difficult to be will-
ing to experiment. But this article
should give all of us the impetus we
need to be “adventurous.”

I like her reminder, “We don’t have
to do all the work.” We’ve had wonder-
ful help from volunteers at our play-
grounds and last year conducted two
training sessions especially for them.
This year we plan to enlarge the train-
ing program as we found it paid divi-
dends. Volunteers like to know how to
help.

It’s nice and cool down here in the
cellar and some of those foundations do
look rather shaky, but we’re getting to
work on them right away. ‘

ELLEN E. LINSON, Director, Recrea-
tion Board, Prince Georges County,

Riverdale, Maryland.

December Issue

Sirs:

May I compliment you on the Decem-
ber issue of the RECREATION magazine.
In the past few years I have noticed a
marked improvement in its format and
content. This most recent one is among
the best yet.

J. W. Faust’s inspiring editorial was
certainly as fitting as any I have read.
To those of us who have had the benefit
of his counseLand enthusiasm, it further
confirms our belief that he not only
teaches recreation philosophy but he
lives it in the finest manner.

The reprint of Edgar Ansel Mowrer’s
address at the Denver Congress was an-

APRIL 1956

—The Editors.

other fine feature. While he is nation-
ally identified as a commentator and
journalist, he has hit upon some subtle
points which many recreationalists
overlook in their “busy day” routine.

There are piercing implications in
his three questions. I am afraid many
of us are guilty of neglecting individual
opportunity for wholesome creative rec-
reation. Perhaps Mr. Mowrer’s com-
ments will stimulate an awakening in
this area. ‘

Thank you for a fine magazine. There
are many of us who are proud (but all
too silent) about the excellent work you
and the Association are doing.

ALAN L. HEIL, Superintendent, Rec-
reation and Parks Department,
M ontclair, New Jersey.

From a Report

Frank Evans of Maplewood, New
Jersey, wishes to educate his board and
have them fully aware of recreation
needs. For this purpose he took out
thirteen RECREATION subscriptions. He
sends them educational pieces every few
months. He praised RECREATION stating
it had improved steadily in the last five
years. He will visit the librarian to in-
duce her to take out a subscription.

HAROLD WILCOX, National Recrea-
tion Association Stajj‘.

Recreation—For What?

Sirs:

Mr. Mowrer in “Recreation -——— For
What?” performs a service to our pro-
fession which an “outsider” can often
do so well. It is required reading for
all members of this department. His
perception and literary skill add effect
to a fresh approach.

I believe the recognition and nourish-
ment of talents is one of the great oys
of recreation work. It can be a source
of delight and inspiration which more
than offsets those moments of doubt and
discouragement. To remember that this

 

sential, to our nation’s survival only
adds incentive. '

Mr. Mowrer certainly is entitled to
our sincerest thanks.

ROBERT E. KRESGE, Superintendent
of Recreation, Park and Recreation
Commission, Charleston, West Vir-
ginia.

Juvenile Delinquency

Sirs:

I enjoyed the letter of Mr. Lewis on
juvenile delinquency in the January is-
sue Of the RECREATION magazine. I was
quite impressed with his statement in-
dicating that he catalogues every child
from the kindergarten to the third
grade. That he also, on the quarterly
basis, reviews the cards and when nec-
essary introduces new programs.

Undoubtedly he has received numer-
ous requests for more specific informa-
tion such as his card system, type of
program conducted in one year, and
whether or not he is affiliated with the
board of education. The last statement
is important when it comes to the em-
ploying of personnel.

Since Mr. Lewis will not have the
time to answer all of the individual
questions, I would encourage you to
prepare a complete article to be pub-
lished in the near future in our national
magazine.

Undoubtedly he is on the right track
and I sincerely hope he will be able to
pass the information on.

C. HEYER, Director, Park-Recrea-
tion, Department of Public Recrea-
tion, W aukesha, Wisconsin.

Graduate Education

Sirs:
In general, the achievement of the

five-fold purpose of graduate education
for recreation presented by Dr. Hutch-

 

Wrtre for our new Base Catalog. I

I 54pm CWW 

370 N. MARGUETTE STREET
I Fond du lac, Wisconsin

part Of our ob is important, even es-l - - - - - - - -

f 151

 

A WONDERFUL SPORT
at low cost and upkeep

It’s easy to start a roller skating program!
It’s a healthful exercise and the popular
way to build strong bodies. A favorite
with boys and girls and budget planners,
too . . . roller skating makes a grand co-
recreational activity. Handles the largest
groups quickly and easily. Halls, gyms,
or any' large floor area make fine roller
rinks. Invest in health and fun this season.

.---Ruhber Tire Skates--
FOR USE ON WAXED FLOORS IN

Gyms, Ballrooms or Halls

      
  

ABSOLUTELY °
GUARANTEED

- NOT TO HAR,SCRATCH OR DAMAGE“-

Rink clamp skates developed by
CHICAGO specially for skating on
waxed floors. The rubber wheels
are ideal for use on tile. ballroom
floors or any highly waxed surface.
Will not harm or mark.

Write Now to the leader in Rink
Skates on How to Start

‘calCAGd l.

noun sum com-am
The Choice of Champions . . . for over 45 Years

inson would produce commendable can-
didates for higher degrees and help ad-
vance recreation more rapidly as an
essential professional area of human
service. (RECREATION, March 1956.)

Our over-all aim of graduate educa-
tion is to develop the most effective pro-
fessional person. Our general objec-
tives are:

1. To produce better teachers, lead-
ers, administrators, research personnel,
and creative scholars.

2. To develop specialists who have
preparation in particular lines of pro-
fessional endeavor beyond the bache-
lor’s or master’s degree.

3. To stimulate and improve the
quantity and quality of research and
its consumption.

4. To meet new and eXpanding needs
for high-level leadership as evidenced
by periodic studies of employment
needs and opportunities.

5. To support and broaden the un-
dergraduate curriculum and undergird
the master’s curriculum through gradu-
ate study and research.

6. To provide basic graduate educa-
tion as a prerequisite toban integral
phase of continuing professional prep-
aration.

Our faculty has agreed on the follow-
ing ten desirable major competencies:

1. A deve10ping functional under-

standing of the contemporary profes-
sional field and of allied and related
fields.

2. An increasing understanding of
the growth and development of the in-
dividual, and of the relation of indi-

vidual development to environmental
factors.

3. An increasing ability to assume
and to assist others in assuming lead-
ership roles.

4. An increasing scholarly produc-
tivity.

5. A deve10ping skill in written and
oral communication, and in the inter-
pretation of the professional goal.

6. An increasing participation in ac-
tivities contributing to the advance-
ment of the profession. '

7. An understanding of and a con-

cern for principles of democratic human
relatlons 1n school, community, na-
tlonal, and world affairs.

8. An increasing ability to make
sound personal and social adjustments.

9. An increasing understanding of
and competence in aspects of general
professional education essential to the
preparation of teachers and leaders.

10. An increasing understanding of
and competence in recreation education
and Its allled and related professional

l areas.

by an analysis of the ten desirable com-
petencies.

Negative forces even beyond those
listed by Mr. Hutchinson need to be
controlled but the best defenSe against
such forces is agreement on an offense
undergirded by defensible purposes and
a plan of action which justifies the time,

effort, and money expended.

BEN W. MILLER, Professor and
Chairman of Department of Physi-
cal Education, University of Cali-
fornia, Los Angeles, California.

*- * 'I' 'I'

Sirs:

Dr. Hutchinson’s article on gradu-
ate education for recreation provides an
important focus on present needs. I
would, however, like to make some sup-
plementary comments.

Specialization is important, but grad-
uate recreation education ought to be
viewed as a whole of human endeavor—
not just school recreation, parks, pub-
lic or private, but as the total of recrea-
tion and how it meets human needs.

Research ought to be considered as a
responsibility of all who work in the
field and ought not be limited to a few
on the academic level. Both reporting
of and outlets for reporting research are
lagging badly, and those who need to
apply research are many times unaware
of what has already been done.

Graduate-student needs vary greatly.
Some have little work experience and
need internship courses and seminars
with experienced students to provide
valuable idea exchange. Others, who
have been “closely tied to a job,” may
need to work primarily with new ideas
based upon an understanding of sound
principles gleaned from their rich ex-
perience.

Graduate recreation education ought
to be flexible enough to recognize
values obtaining from association in
allied fields such as education, physical
education, adult education and social
group work, most of which are willing
to gear course content to the needs of
recreation students.

Recreation education, too, should be
aware that, by and large, present day
personnel have not been trained in rec-
reation curriculum of colleges and uni-
versities because there “just weren’t
any.” Therefore, there is also a re-
sponsibility for graduate recreation-
education to work through less formal
and academic approaches such as insti-

tutes and workshops.

Lastly, such education ought to teach
a person how to think through varied
problems based on accepted principles.

GEORGE T. WILSON, Recreation Su-
pervisor, Department of Municipal

Each student is expected to focus his

. Recreation and Adult Education,
efforts on the Inadequacies as revealed

Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

4490 West lake Street—Chicago 24. llllnols I
152

When writing In our advertisers please mention RECREATION. RECREATION

Personnel Administration

Sirs: -

Willard Sutherland’s article, “Per-
sonnel Administration,” highlights a
subject of extreme importance to all
who are interested in the future of pub-
lic recreation. It covers in brief and
easily understandable form the basic
steps that should be taken to achieve a
sound personnel program. (Feb. 1956.)

Under present-day conditions, per~
sonnel considerations become more and
more important. The competition for
manpower in a nation at peak employ-
ment presents critical personnel prob-
lems that have an important bearing on
the future of the recreation movement.
It is not only a problem of recruiting
and selecting new workers, but a strug-
gle to retain competent employees in
which the employing agency has a valu-
able investment of experience.

The criteria presented in Mr. Suther-
land’s article are being practiced by a
large number of municipalities operat-
ing merit systems of personnel adminis-
tration, generally under the designation
“Civil Service.” In these instances the
personnel program is usually systematic
and orderly in its operation. There are,
however, many communities without an
orderly personnel program based on
merit, or in which only a few depart-
ments or classes of employment are ex-
tended this advantage.

It is most desirable to have this cri-
teria applied on a city-Wide basis with
the recreation department fitting into
the over-all municipal personnel pro-
gram. However, where this isn’t feasi-
ble, the department itself should set up
its own comprehensive personnel pro-
gram awaiting the time when it can be
extended this advantage.

Recent successful moves toward the
identification .of recreation personnel,
and improved and expanded training
for the field, have emphasized the pro-
fessional nature of recreation leader-
ship and administration. Of primeim-
portance in the professionalization of
public recreation is_ the adoption of
sound personnel practices and the de-
velopment of a career service. The
characteristics of profession—knowl-
edge qualifications, standards of con-
duct, selection, training and public duty
——parallel those of a comprehensive
: personnel system.

Mr. Sutherland’s article has set forth
a framework of sound principles. For
those who want to implement these
principles, considerable material may
be found in the publications of the Civil
Service Assembly and the International
City Managers’ Association. Both or-
ganizations maintain offices at 1313

East 60th Street, Chicago 37, Illinois.

JAY M. VER LEE, Superintendent of
Recreation, Oakland, California.

APRIL 1956

 

   
 

 

to complete details on sports, recreational,

 

commercial and industrial

FLOODLIGHTING POLES

SEND FOR A
COPY OF THIS NEW
CATALOG TODAY!

0 Easy-to-read diagrams show installation and mounting
details for steel or aluminum Monotube poles ranging in
height up to 100 feet. Numerous illustrations indicate a
wide range of applications. To get your copy merely com»
plete the coupon above, and mail to The Union Metal
Manufacturing Company, Canton 5, Ohio.

UNION METAL

.l’lonotube Floodlightng Poles

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

1‘53‘

CT IVITIES over the last few years illustrate the
use of imagination and understanding on the
part of playground leaders. These few samples are
typical. The planning and experimentation with new
ideas and trends presage well for the coming play-
ground season.

“This Is Your Life”

Throughout the season many little special events on our
local playgrounds—the athletic field day, the sand sculptur-
ing contest at the beach, the annual picnic with its champion-
ship playofis—are called to the attention of the parents
through newspaper articles and an occasional picture. Then
there is the Fourth of July parade with children’s floats, the
lantern parade which draws thousands to observe the beau-
tiful spectacle, and the playground carnival. But how often
does an adult visit to observe the fuss, joy, happiness, and
thrill that preceded the sand in the shoes, the bruise under
the band-aid, or the blister from using the coping saw?

Most playground programs culminate with some type of
activity which parents are urged to attend; but at Franklin
we figured such a program might be prepared by photo-
graphing youngsters in action and showing the slides on
the screen.

N 0 pictures were ever deliberately posed, and the camera
hanging about the neck or bulging in the pocket was fre-
quent enough to be no novelty. The lens, set at f5.6 and
1 / 100th, stopped any action in the bright sun, and an occa-
sional light reading in the shaded areas made for accurate
exposures in the sand box, around the table games, and at
the craft benches.

The title, “This Is Your Life,” taken from the popular TV
show, quickly caught fire, helped to keep the interest keen,

and stimulated such questions as “Did you shoot me?” or
“Am I in it?”

Realizing that each parent wants to see his own child,
about two thirds of the pictures were taken so that one or
two persons dominated the scene, with enough of the equip-
ment and associated personnel showing to provide the at-
mosphere of the playground activity. The remaining third
portrayed groups—-the winners of a dress-up party, a hat
show, a sand-box contest, story hour, or an enthusiastic
craft group.

Pictures were taken right into the next to last week of the
playground season, and a rainy day was used to give the
youngsters a preview of the program. This stimulated in-
terest in the evening showing to come, as enthusiastic young-
sters carried the news home. The problem of the film costs

was settled at this point when oilers were made to buy the
pictures.

The playground was decorated for the occasion with Ian-
terns which the children saved from the lantern parade; the
pictures were projected on a large screen; a microphone,
operating through the amplifier of a 16mm. movie pro-
jector, made the narration clearly audible in the area. The
enthusiastic expressions of appreciation following the pro-
gram indicated that the project was well worth repeating.- -

154-

quaeam't‘a

HOWARD R. RICH, Director of Public Recreation, Sheboygan,

Wisconsin.

Fantastic Horse Show

Any horse that isn’t a horse created a sensation on our
playground. The entries included an oil painting of a horse;
horses of plastic, plaster of Paris, wood, metal, clay; stick
horses; and even horses made of paper sacks. Some of the
horses were garlanded with wreaths of marigolds, bells, and
ribbons. The classifications included the wildest-looking,
homemade, funniest, prettiest, largest, and smallest—CHRIS-
TINE L. GANTLEY, The Dorah H. M erz Memorial Playground,
sponsored by the Lions Club, Maysville, Kentucky.

Cow Night

This is an after-supper affair when the children and
adults are permitted to try their hands at milking a cow,

which is brought to the playground by a local dairy. Every-
one enjoys this event—adults almost as well as children.

Few people in the city have had an opportunity to learn how
to milk; so lessons in milking are given.

This is not South Haven’s only attempt to use rural re-
sources. Hikes out into the country, hay rides, taify pulls,
and so on, have all been used with success. If other towns
try the same program ideas, and our experience holds true,

 

Can this be a scene on a playground? It is! This
program took place in Coffeyville, Kansas.

RECREATION

 

an 0% Pang/tomcat

they will be successful.—MARVIN HAMM, Director of Rec-
reation, South Haven, Michigan.

0 Playground programs in South Haven are planned for the
entire family. Summer playground committees composed
of neighborhood mothers and fathers plan with the play-
ground leader, and give assistance with the activities wher-

ever possible. Each Friday night is “Family Night.”——~Ed.

Newspapers Liked This

Public concern over the youthful offender is fanned con-
stantly by the news he or she makes. This is especially sig-
nificant for recreation leaders since recreation programs are
usually related to a community’s juvenile delinquency rate,
perhaps more closely than they should be. The newsmen,
themselves weary of the attention given juvenile delin-
quency, also know~ that only a small percentage of youth is
actually delinquent, the rest being nothing more than mis-
chievous. The trick is to make news of the young people
Who are not junior felons. Surely a picture-story of play-
ground children doing something for others without a
thought of reward is worth several stories of usual play-
ground activities, pictures included. ‘

Last summer we used these facts and the apt term “juve-
nile decency” to gain a large amount of valuable publicity.
The origin of the term “juvenile decency” needs explana-
tion. Several years ago an NRA Newsletter contained refer-
ence to “opportunities for uvenile decency.” Credit Joseph
Prendergast with the authorship and the then higher than
usual concern with juvenile delinquency as the prompter.
It was put to use as follows:

Early in the season a playground director reported that
some teen-age boys had arrived at his playground before
opening time one morning ’and had removed all the stones
from what had been a very stony surface. He felt this was
unusual—which it was. A routine press release was pre-
pared which labeled the act one of “juvenile decency,” quite
the opposite of vandalism or juvenile delinquency.

Favorable comments indicated that this was a good public-
ity subject. Now, more such incidents were needed. Previ-
ously one playground director had suggested a contest to
select the funniest episode occurring each week. A switch in
purpose created instead a “Juvenile Decency Award” of
the week, to be determined by thezsupervisors from incidents
reported by the playground directors; and an effective pub-
lic-relalions technique came into being.

Each Sunday.both papers carried a picture and a story
of the “juvenile decency” winner. One week it was about
three thirteen-year-old boys who left their playground ac-
tivities to assist an indigent elderly couple who were moving.
Their bright smiling faces made a real human interest story.

APRIL 1956

Another time it was a cute eight-year-old who took the play-
ground volleyball home each night, scrubbed it, and re-
turned it the next morning white as snow. There was always
something worth recognizing, if just an unusual act of
sportsmanship.

The-public took to these stories and so, of course, did the
editors. Generally, many recreation stories are printed with-
out enthusiasm. It does everyone a lot of good, therefore,
when the editors welcome a recreation story and ask for
more.—ROBERT E. KRESGE, Superintendent of Recreation,
Charleston, West Virginia.

—.‘

 

Boy who noticed playground’s paddle tennis
equipment was worn, makes and donates new ones.

Playg 'ounders—and Radio

One of the highlights of the playground program in Pitts-
burg, Kansas, is the daily radio program! Each morning a
staff member, who tours the playgrounds, conducts a story-
telling hour. Many times children act as “guest artists” and
broadcast in the storyteller’s place. Recently, they held a
storytelling contest among the children. Many postcards
from the community indicate the number of people reached
by this program. Playground directors say in many in-
stances the children stay at home until this program has
been broadcast; then they attend the playgrounds.

Every afternoon one of the radio station staff visits a
different playground and makes a tape recording—a sort
of on-the-sidewalk-interview idea. The program is broad-
cast every night, and the children can hear themselves on
the air!

Playground Helpers’ Club
Although most of the children on our playground were of

155

some help to the program carried out by the two supervisors,
some were more noticeably cooperative than others. In order
to give recognition for this service and to organize the chil-
dren so that their aid would be more useful, a Playground
Helpers’ Club was formed.

Through talks with interested children and through bul-
letin board announcements, boys and girls were invited to
an organization meeting. As they discussed the idea, some
good thinking and planning took place. They decided that
club members should be at least eight years old in order to
be depended upon to accept responsibility; and they adopted
these rules for club membership:

1. Cooperate with playground supervisors at all times.

2. Observe playground rules; be courteous to others.

3. Help with playground activities—such as handcraft,
care of table games, keeping the grounds clean—at least
three hours each week, under the direct leadership of one
of the supervisors.

They also agreed that each candidate for membership
should undergo a trial week before acceptance into the club,
in order to see if he could be relied upon to keep these rules.

When copies of the rules were mimeographed, each child
who wanted to belong to the club signed two copies. At the
end of the trial week the supervisors signed and dated the
sheets and the candidates who had kept the rules became
charter members of the organization. Then one of the copies
was sent to the child’s parents with a letter from the super-
visors explaining the purpose of the club. The letter thanked
the parents for their cooperation, invited their suggestions,
and reassured them as to the direct guidance of a supervisor.

Each Monday morning the members met to sign up for
the activities with which they wanted to help. They helped
younger children, cared for materials during coloring and
painting periods, taught individuals how to do other types
of crafts, played with preschool children, cared for table
games during the day, and helped to put away equipment at
the close of the day. Because of the c00perative attitude
fostered by the club, these children could be counted on
whenever they could help, even beyond three hours a week.

At the end of the summer, the playground and recreation
superintendent recognized the club members for their good
work by awarding them a certificate of merit. They were
all invited to a theater party by the playground supervisors
the day after the playground closed.

This year the children would like to have business meet-
ings to discuss the activities with which they can help, better
ways of carrying out their purpose, and how to get more
good members.

The club’s success was measured by its eifectiveness: in
fostering more respect for the playground rules and equip-
ment and the leadership of the supervisors; in giving pres-
tige and recognition to those who helped in the program;
and in making the program run more smoothly by freeing
the supervisors from tasks which the children could per-
form well. Through its democratic organization and be-
cause of its purpose of service, the club proved to be good

training for young citizens—MARJORIE KESSLER, Senior
Supervisor, Roosevelt Playground, Pekin, Illinois.

156

 

Norfolk playground children put on a fairy tale play
under the patchwork quilt idea. They use crepe-paper
costumes, old clothes; tree is branch in wastebasket.

Storytelling Plus

A story telling program was the dream of the recreation
supervisors in Norfolk. It finally materialized with the ad-
dition of a storyteller, Marsha Murphy, to the summer-play-
ground stalf. Known as the “Story Telling Lady,” she travel-
ed to each area once a week.

She would pick a theme weekly and wear a costume re-
lated to the tale she planned to tell. For instance, one week
she appeared in a Japanese kimona and told an Asiatic fairy
tale, The Vampire Cat of Nabesshima. Also, she often added
a little extra something to her visit, such as climaxing the
hour with some form of dance. One week she appeared in
hula attire and eXplained the Hawaiian art of dancing and
the meaning of the use of the hands. On another occasion
she has been an Arabian princess complete with Aladdin’s

magic lamp; and she has danced in the garbs of fairies or
jungle animals.

The children were delighted when she would come decked
out as a gypsy and tell their fortunes, or would be a Grecian
goddess and show slides of faraviay castles. Costumes such
as an Annie Oakley cowgirl outfit were worn to preview
coming events such as Indian and cowboy pow-wows slated
for the various playgrounds throughout the summer.

The story telling program was just one part of the over-all
dramatic program put on each summer by the Norfolk Rec-
reation Bureau under Betty Bailey, drama supervisor. For
many years Mrs. Bailey has been conducting “patchwork
quilt plays” on the playgrounds. She ingeniously presents
fairy tale plays outdoors by merely hanging quilts and
blankets between trees for a stage, using old clothes and
crepe paper for costumes; then, by simply telling a fairy
tale, she puts on an entertaining production. No actual
script is followed. With lines from favorite stories as a
guide, she lets the children use their own imaginations and
spontaneous enthusiasm. Through her inspiration and di-
rection the play leaders on all of the areas have begun to put

on their own once-upon-a-time dramas.———YOLANDA GRANT,
Recreation Bureau, Norfolk, Virginia. I

RECREATION

   
   

BASKETBALL BACKBOARDS

i SUSPENDED BACKSTOPS

ADJUSTABLE BUCK

  
 
     

THE BIG NAME IS

IIIITEII

The name PORTER is a symbol of

dependable performance only because PORTER
has earned this distinction. It is a logical

result of PORTER'S insistence for
nearly a century Upon the highest
standards of design and workmanship.

FLYING RINGS

CHEST WEIGHTS

WALL FOLDING
PARALLEL BARS

PORTER’S LINE OF GYMNASIUM EQUIPMENT IS COMPLETE BUT IT IS ALSO AUTHENTIC

0 Basketball Backstops o Stall Bars 0 Vaulting Horses

0 Corrective Equipment 0 Parallel Bars 0 Vaulting Bucks

0 Chest Machines 0 Horizontal Bars 0 Jump Standards

0 Climbing Ropes 0 Spring Boards 0 Mats and mat Trucks
0 Anthropometric Equipment 0 Rowing Machines 0 Game Standards

J6me? a $1,:sz  grin/t? J4”!!! admin/z
THE J. E. PORTER CORPORATION

OTTAWA ° ILLINOIS
BUILDERS OF GYMNASIUM, PLAYGROUND AND BASKETBALL EQUIPMENT

PORTER engineers are always
available for assistance in the
selection and installation of
every kind of gymnasium or
corrective equipment.

 

APRIL 1956 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 157

 

Is “gang” trouble one of your playground problems?

 

 

 

John A. Kraft, Jr.

FATHER FLANACAN may have been correct. Perhaps there’s
no such thing as a bad boy. Still, it takes encourage-
ment to bring out the good. Particularly when a bad repu-
tation is involved.

It was my first day as park director in Memphis, Tennes-
see. The phone was ringing as I came on duty.

“Officer Whidden speaking. Let me talk to the play-
ground director.”

I introduced myself and he continued, “There’s a list of
names above your phone. Boys who give trouble every
week. Their leader is a seventeen-year-oldonamed Chuck
Weaver. He’s heavy set. and wears a black-and-white cap.
Chuck’s lieutenant is a kid named Jimmy Manning, blond,
carries a hunting knife.”

As he spoke several young men entered the pavilion. The
officer warned: “They’ll steal anything. When the park
closes at night you’ll be barraged with rocks. Better have
the squad car pick you up.”

“It’s my first night,” I said. “I’ll try it alone.”

He muttered something, then, “If you see any of the gang,
call us right away!”

Six young men of varied ages, all with the same air of
indifference, stood before me. The boy described as Weaver
pointed a finger at the list of names. , 

“Aim to keep them out of the park?”

“No,” I said, “they’re as welcome as anyone else.”

Reaching up I removed the notice, tore it carelessly into
small pieces.

“If you see them, pass the Word ive’re making a fresh
start,” I told them. They stood there a few seconds, then
filed out.

It was late in the afternoon before I encountered members
of the gang a second time, unexpectedly, and in the back seat
of a prowl car.

Two police officers stepped from the machine and I caught
a glimpse of yellow hair and a somewhat stained black-and-
white cap. The driver spoke: “A Mrs. Wilbourn reported
her purse stolen at noon today. Her description of two boys
waiting by the tennis court where she was playing fits the
pair we picked up. She couldn’t make a positive identifi-
cation, though. We thought you might be able to help us?”

I moved closer, peered into disgruntled faces.

MR. Kturr, who has served as both physical education in-
structor and park director, has contributed articles to a num-

ber of pro/essional journals. lie is currently tennis profes-
sional at the llemplu's Country Club.

158

 

 

 

little

BIG .
SHOTS

“Know their names?” asked the officer.

“It’s my first day,” I reminded him, “and they look a lot
like other boys on the playgrounds.”

“The kids say they’ve been in South Memphis riding
bicycles.”

I addressed Weaver, “See anyone there who knew you
around noon?”

Chuck scowled. “We don’t know anybody in South Mem-
phis.”

The policeman suggested, “Officer Whidden is familiar
with the gang here. He can identify them.”

“Why not let this ride till tomorrow?” I asked. “It’ll

give you more time to investigate.”
“You’ll work with us?”

“Of course.”

“All right, you punks.” He opened the car door. “We’re
letting you go now. Got your addresses and you’ll see us
again very soon!”

It was a happy moment for me a little later when Mrs.
Wilbourn phoned to say she’d recovered her purse. Her
daughter Thelma had borrowed it.

At ten o’clock I locked the gates leading to the tennis
courts, threw a light switch and plunged the park into dark-
ness. As I walked toward my car, a dozen eyes followed

each step. But no missile shattered the silence, and my first
day was completed.

Next morning I was initiated by the “big shots” at our
park. Sixteen locks, complete with binding chains, had sim—
ply disappeared. Tennis courts were permanently open!

"RECREATION

L

II] the next hour one_or two members of the gang put in
an appearance. Their attitude seemed to be: “Lost a few
locks? Left the net posts, didn’t we?”

I asked a boy to have Chuck see me. Thirty minutes later
the suspicious youth rode his bicycle into the park.

“You wanted me?”

“Not exactly,” I parried. “Last night somebody picked
the looks around here.” He listened, said nothing. “They’re
not really important,” I said, “but I don’t like to be prodded,
Chuck.”

He held his ground. “I don’t think you took the locks;
but I believe you could get them back. Will you try?” I
asked.

He studied the handlebars on his bicycle carefully, then
said, “Well . . . maybe I can.” '

At three o’clock that afternoon I was apprehensive. Al-
ready the recreation ofiice had called to ask how things
were going. I had neglected to report the shortage. Now I
wondered if it was a mistake.

Minutes later a small, redhaired youth called my name.
He pointed to a basket on the front fender of his bike.
“Chuck sent ’em,” he said, and promptly broke into a full
run. I examined the contents. Sixteen locks and chains.
Boy, was I glad to see them!

For two days the park operated without a problem. On
the third morning an. indignant citizen met me with a com-
plaint, and all hell seemed to break loose.

“It isn’t the value of my watch,” he declared, “I give a
dozen times that amount to charity. It’s the fact this article
was stolen one minute after I took it from my wrist! What
are you running: a public park, or a training course for
juvenile delinquency?”

“If someone wanted to steal the watch,” I pointed out, “an

unguarded minute would be all the time he’d need.”

“That’s worse!” he stormed. “A person waiting for a
chance to steal!”

“It’s possible that the watch was taken by mistake?”

“You don’t really think so. There are thieves here. You
know it!”

“Look,” I said——and regretted it a moment later——“give
me a day to try and locate your watch?” He didn’t like the
idea but couldn’t think of a reason to refuse.

I hated to call in Chuck Weaver, but there was no
alternative.

“It happened last night,” I said. “The man used Court 8
at nine o’clock.”

“What did the watch look like?” Chuck asked. I gave

l him its description.

“If you could find anything, even a small lead . . .”

“I’m no stoolie,” his green eyes flashed; then relaxing:
“I’ll see what can be done.”

By supper that evening I was without a clue to the thief’s
identity. Someone slipped into the chair next to me in the
restaurant and placed an article of jewelry by my plate.

“This it?”

I examined it slowly. “Yes. It seems to be.”

“Tell the guy to wear it next time. It’ll last longer.”
“I won’t forget this, Chuck,” I promised.

APRIL 1956

He pointed to the timepiece. “They busted the crystal.”
And as he left the counter I saw that more than a watch
crystal had been injured. The right side of Chuck’s face
was badly bruised.

“Wait, Chuck,” I called after him. “Stay for supper!”

“Sorry,” he said. “I ain’t hungry now.”

Friday morning our little big shots were at the park early.

“What’s up?” I asked.

“Nothing. We planned something last night; it didn’t
come ofic and the gang turned in early.” '

I said: “Tell them to meet me by the pavilion at noon.”

His normally suspicious nature was aroused. “Why? You
got a beef?”

I didn’t, of course, but he wouldn’t have believed me.

At twelve o’clock eleven boys parked their bikes in a
clump of shade by Court 8. Armed with a dozen tennis
rackets, I closed in on the group.

“During the day I have a little free time. I’d like to teach
you how to play so there’ll be someone around to hit balls
with me.”

For a moment no one stirred.

“That’s why you wanted us here?” Jimmy asked.

“Tennis!” A dirty faced youth spat the word. “We don’t
play sports!”

“Why?” I swung my racket on an imaginary overhead,
“Take too much muscle?”

Chuck selected a piece of my equipment and dug strong
fingers into the grip. “Hit me a ball,” he challenged, “I’ll
get it back!”

“Juvenile crime is often recognized as the love
of fun ‘gone wrong.’ Bad gangs can have their
interests diverted until they become good basket-
ball teams.”—-Walter L. Scott.

 

With their leader setting the example, the boys took places
on the court. I demonstrated the Eastern grip and put sev-
eral balls to each one. Some of their returns hit the net; others
soared above the backstops. But in thirty minutes tennis
gained eleven enthusiasts. Three days later, Jimmy and two
younger members showed up with new rackets. I offered
a medal for the winner in their group and a week’s work
brought indications of sound ground strokes. Mr. Klaur,
the park’s former director, chose that day to honor us with

an appearance.

“Know the big fellow on Court 12?”

“Yes. Chuck Weaver.”

“The kid he’s playing; isn’t that Jimmy Manning?”

“I think so.”

He stepped back disgustedly. “Let ’em stay here,” he
warned, “and they’ll steal you blind!”

I smiled, and Klaur continued.

“One day,” he warned, “you’ll report for work and the
pavilion will be missing!”
’ I walked back to the courts. Jimmy lobbed successfully
and Chuck streaked to the baseline in full pursuit. I knew
Klaur meant well. But boys who play as hard as Chuck and
Jimmy aren’t likely to return at night for a mere pavilion! I

159

 

’
l
v.
‘52.
A r a»
#3" ’ r". '2 ,
.AUIL  h ‘ "Z ’ 
" i 1 - s— I 5* ‘
. ' 9 ., , - v
. 1|. In a
I - " ‘ v
" if, .
Hill; ; - _
3-5 ' g ,
2,1" .
v '1“ t
i. iv A‘,
a" real
i“, ‘ ..
girls ‘ Ha
. -: I
 ;4‘ W,
1' I _
Vin". v
" i - y '4
ii"; " I I '
3'1 '
.» Vii-'7 '- 9,654
br' 'a I‘

- What factors attract him to the playground?

 

foa SEVERAL years, despite desper-

ate attempts, we had found it
impossible to interest teen-agers in the
Hamilton playground program; and it
was felt that an answer must be found
before our playground program could
be considered successful. In 1952 the
Ontario Department of Education in-
stituted a three year in-service training
course for municipal recreation direc-
tors under the guidance of Dr. Alan
Klein,inow of the University of Pitts-
burgh. A thesis was one of the course
requirements. Therefore, my assistant,
Miss Florence Meiler, and I decided to
study the situation and write jointly 011
the subject of “What Factors Attract
Teen-Agers to the Hamilton Play-
grounds?” We had the paid personnel
and the organization to successfully
cope with an undertaking which we
hoped would be of a scientific nature.
Such findings would have a distinct
carry-over value since this knowledge
would be valuable to any youth pro-
gram anywhere.

In order to get a trial set of factors
with which to experiment, question-
naires were sent to former staff mem-
bers, and a letter to the former super-
intendent of playgrounds, Mr. J. J.
Syme. Adult youth leaders, together
with 354 teen-agers were interviewed,
and considerable literature on the sub-
ject was studied. Naturally, many of
the teen-age replies were of a specific

 

 

MR. LLY is the director of recreation in
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.

160

nature. These were sorted out under
general headings; for example, if a
teen-ager said he liked softball, his pref-
erence was identified as sports. These,
then, were the trial factors: good leader-
ship, good program planning, use of
teen-age committees, Opportunity for
discussion, sports, creative activities
(crafts), and off-ground activities.

For the purpose of testing these fac-
tors, fourteen playgrounds were chosen.
Seven were grouped together as a test
group, and the remaining seven were
called the control group. The program
in the control group differed in no way
from that which was conducted in pre-
vious years. In the test group, how-
ever, we applied the trial factors men-
tioned above. In order that the test
should be as fair as possible, we paired
off playgrounds from the test and con-
trol groups for comparative purposes,
endeavoring to equalize them in respect
to location in the city, quality and type
of leadership, and facilities. The lead-
ers in the test grounds were given a set
program at the beginning of the season,
but were told to meet at least weekly
with the teen-agers and to change the
program to comply with their wishes
when possible and practical—the idea
being to commence at their level and
gradually to improve the quality of pro-
gram if and when necessary.

Since one of the factors was good pro-
gram planning, the leaders of the seven
test playgrounds met weekly, as a group,
with the director and assistant director
and discussed their progress. Thus, all

Anthony G. Ley

profited by each other’s successes and
failures. At this time, each leader had
to present his program for the following
week, thereby giving us concrete proof
that adequate preparation took place. At
the conclusion of the summer, thirty-
nine teen-agers on test grounds and
twenty-six on the control grounds were
interviewed. The questions asked were
similar to those used in the interviews
at the beginning of the season. Attend-
ance records were kept on each ground,
weekly written reports were required
from the test grounds, and all interviews
were recorded and handed in.

From these records and reports, the
following findings were determined. At-
tendance at test grounds exceeded those
at control grounds with one exception,
and here the leader on the control
ground attended all staff meetings of
test ground leaders on his own initia-
tive. The attendance on his ground
showed the same healthy improvement
as on the test grounds. There were a
larger number and variety of programs,
a demand for longer hours (evenings
and week ends), and a more equitable
distribution of boys and girls on test
grounds as compared to the control
group. Also, there were more activities
involving both sexes.

These results proved to our satisfac-
tion that the factors which attract teen-
agers to the playgrounds in Hamilton
were: mixed activities (male and fe-
male); teen-age committees; sports;
good organization; good leadership;
off-ground activities; crafts.

RECREATION I

The following summer these factors
were applied to a teen-age program be-
ing conducted on each of four artificial
ice surfaces we have in Hamilton. In
the summer these concrete areas are not
iced, and each adjoins an outdoor swim-
ming pool. Both facilities were used.
The excerpts from the 1955 summer re-
port of the supervisors in charge give
some idea of how successful the pro-
gram was:

“We have had nothing but favorable
comments about our program this sum-
mer, and it seems that we have taken a
big step in solving the problem of ,what
to do with the teen-age crowd during
the summer months.”

“Teen-agers in various areas began
to look upon the centres as places where
they could find friendship and recrea-
tion.”

“The increase in attendance from
week to week is evident.”

“The attendance figures at Parkdale,
I believe, are conclusive proof of’this
theory. The total attendance from June
20 to September 3 was 10,358. This
figure, in comparison to attendance fig
ures of playfield teen-age programs of
previous years, justifies the continua-
tion of the teen-age program run at the
rink and pool units.”

——_____.________
“Recreation, like education, is for all men
everywhere from the cradle to the grave. It is
not merely for those who have Suffered mis-
fortune, nor simply to prevent men from en-
countering misfortune. It is to give to all op-
portunity for growth, opportunity to be and
become ourselves.”—Howard Braucher in A
Treasury of Living.
——_________________

“I feel some progress has been made
in the north end this year. I have re-
ceived many favourable comments from
the pe0ple in the district concerning the
rink program here and feel we have
come a long way with the teen-agers in
this district.”

“I think it should be pointed out that
a great deal of the morning and after-
noon program consisted of unorgan-
ized activity. Teen-agers enjoy check-
ing out a lacrosse stick or a basketball
and simply throwing the ball around.
In such activity they can talk about our
rent topics and they aren’t compelled by
the leader to take part in strenuous ac-
tion. Such periods of ‘relaxation ac-
tivity’ were very popular at our rink.”

Upon reflection, one has difliculty in
refraining from making a few observa-

APRIL 1956

tions. For instance, it is apparent that
youth demands a high quality of lead-
ership. The leader must be equal in in-
telligence and superior in ability to the
teen-age leader in the group if the teen-
age committee is to be wisely and effec-
tively guided. Anything less means only
a waste of time and effort—and very
possibly more harm than good will en~
sue. Again, it is obvious that a great
deal of preparation must precede any
successful program. In an effort such
as this, there can be no slipshod meth-
ods, which would only arouse the scorn
of youth. On the other hand, teen-agers
are not nearly as confident of them-
selves as we might think. By and large,
they are confused and must be given a
chance, under the pr0per auspices, to
be together if for no other purpose than
just to talk. Yet the leader must be
quick to capitalize on any interest they
might show, no matter how transitory
it might be.

From a scientific point of view these
factors are only applicable to the play-
grounds in Hamilton; however, if they
could also be tested in churches, com-
munity centers, YMCA’S, YWCA’S,
boys’ clubs, and so on, across the length
and' breadth of the country, it is possi-
ble we would know for certain what it
is that attracts teen-agers to any loca-
tion where it is desirable to have them
congregate. Armed with this informa-
tion, it would only be necessary to ac-
quire the facilities and the leadership
to eliminate practically, once and for
all, the problems of wayward youth.
Since there exist in many schools (after
school hours), churches, clubs, and so
on, facilities which are not now being
used effectively for youth purposes, it
appears that the great lack is properly
trained leadership. Let those who are
concerned with the seriousness of the
problem of youth attach as much im-
portance to their future as they do to
the production and sale of commercial
commodities. Let them devote a com—
parable amount of time and effort to
ascertaining the effectiveness of youth
programs, and they will place capable
professionally trained youth leaders
who are devoted to the cause on a par
with their business executives, in in-
fluence, prestige, and monetary remu-
neration. In this way only can the prob
lem of youth be solved. I

  
  

 

      

' .n
:43)? j "‘
.- ._ w . ‘ -_...

A complete line of precision-madektaa 673m ‘,

structed on the versatile X-acta princip ai
m. ,‘

replaceable p ' “not”; blades. Available ,

 
   

   
 

° d' 'd all *4 .-.m «in... rom 60c 13,, so 
WI 0   l'“ v-J'Iés 

'5’ ; int—oi~ rbeadwforfREE 28-page '25»

' og'io ’ , hMes, tools and kits. 1%

:- 53.5. ft... ' -  h ’- 4‘35- #1: 

   

/>

 

'1' t N.
 If}. 

 

Fun For Everyone!

From 8 to 80 here is exciting recrea-
tion for all ages . . . lteen enjoyment
for players and spectators.

Rugged. Dimco FreeGlide Sbuiile-

board sets are available for both out-
door and indoar installation.

Easy to install . . . low in upkeep!
Write today for colorful folder, "Let’t
Play Shufflebonrtl,” containing com-

plete information on court layout and
equipment.

DIMCO-GRAY COMPANY

205 EAST SIXTH STREET
DAYTON 2. OHIO

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. ' 161

Junior
Recreation
Leaders

They provide a storehouse of enthusiasm, health,
energy, spirit, and service at a low cost; why not 1n—
clude them in your training and recruitment plans?

' 751?

WE USE trained junior recreation
leaders on our playgrounds! In
working with young people either in
church, school, or in the recreation pro-
fession, I have found a refreshment not
oliered by any other association. You
can rest assured the assignment you give
them will be properly completed. They
never let you down. Regardless of their
many mistakes, owing to inexperience,
they always perform “beyond the line of
duty.” This is one reason why we have
a program to develop junior recreation
leaders.

A word about Salina’s recreation pro-
gram will help you better understand
why we believe in our young people.
Salina is a mid-Kansas town of 33,000
population. Smoky Hill Air Force Base
is located nearby. Since the recreation
program’s inception eight years ago, the
recreation commission has developed
eighteen playgrounds. During the sum-
mer season they are open in the morn-
ing from nine until twelve, and in the
evening, from six until nine. Several
lighted field areas are open later in the
evening for softball, baseball, and spe-
cial activities.

Salina has been blessed with many
preschool children. On each play area,
lot lots have been constructed so as to
protect the younger fry from the hustle
and bustle of the older children. Al-
though we have no minimum age limits
for the tot-lot children, we do insist that
a child be able to get to and from the

Mn. look is the superintendent of rec-
r(when in Salina, Kansas.

1.02

Dave Zook

playground on his own. There is at least
one tot-lot leader in each play area, For
the most part, these leaders are senior
high school students. 0f the one hun-
dred and thirteen playground leaders
employed this past summer, more than
half were high-school students.
Judging from the number of applica-
tions we receive each year, it seems that
all parents in our city look forward to
the day when their son or daughter will
qualify to work as a recreation leader.
When these young people apply for
service in the field they might be con-
sidering as a profession, it is diiiicult
to say, “I’m sorry, all positions have
been filled.” When you have recom-

mendations from not only Salina’s lead-

ing citizens but from professional peo-
ple as well, you must give these appli-
cants very careful consideration.

It is our opinion that the superin-
tendent of recreation has not only a re-
sponsibility to his local needs and in-
terests, but to render a service to his
profession whenever possible. These
enthusiastic (we consider that an out-
standing qualification) young people
can be lost to the ever increasing need
of the recreation cause at the very be-
ginning if every effort is not made to
help them.

We employ young recreation leaders
for one session, either morning or eve-
ning. ln thus splitting up the Work, we
can oller more of our young leaders
good practical experience andfweekly
institute training. The playground di-
rector and, usually, his assistant are em-
ployed on a full-time basis so as i0 keep

 

| Personnel I

the morning and evening program close-
ly related.

Even with our increased employment
of young people on a part-time basis,
there were many more whom we could
not handle even though it was apparent
that among them there were quite a few
with potential recreation leadership
qualities.

At long last we decided to set up what
we called a junior recreation leaders’
program. We sent out a letter to all ap-
plicants who had failed to receive a
playground assignment explaining that,
although all playground job 5 were
filled, they were invited to report to any
morning or evening playground of their
choice and register with the director in
charge as junior recreation leaders.

The director was to keep a record of
the junior leader’s attendance and eval-
uate his work. Those who gave evidence
of good leadership qualities and had a
good attendance record would receive
a small bonus at the conclusion of the
program. This was a means of “dis-
covering” some very outstanding lead-
ers and, of course, they were a big help
too.

Many of these young people have
been trained by National Recreation As-
sociation specialists in addition to their
local institute training, and with the
the eXperience they have had they serve
their community well. We find them
appearing as volunteers at school play
days, chu rch activities, and Bible
schools. They also serve various agen-
cies and civic groups in and nearby
Salina.

In exposing more leaders to the rec-
reation program, we solved several
needs. To begin with, we offered many
of our young peOple good wholesome
employment. The taxpayer is always
happy to see that his money is spent at
home and certainly is pleased to know
that our young citizens have received a
portion of it. These young peOple have
also been a good source of public rela-
tions. They have carried back into their
homes, schools, and organizations a
frank, honest, and sincere account of
what the recreation program really is. l

RECREATION

TV Selects Playground Athletics

A program which increased attendance and pride in playgrounds.

EARLY in the Spring of 1955, TV station KMTV in Omaha

approached the recreation department about working
together in the development of a television show to be cor-
related with the summer playground program. KMTV was
to promote this program as a public service with Roberts
Dairy Company of Omaha purchasing the commercial time.
It was to be called “Playground Champions.”

The staff of the Omaha Park and Recreation Commission
met with the station manager and his technicians and
worked out a ten-week program for the summer months.
The plan was to include activities already popular on the
playgrounds along with a revival of activities such as top-
spinning—which was popular years ago. Tops had to be
given up, however, as few of our staff were able to spin one
well enough to instruct the children.

The first show of the series was an orientation program-

to introduce the coming playground program and the play
leaders to the public. Each leader told the location of his
playground and of his past experience in working with
children.

The programs were held in the Omaha University Field
House in order that inclement weather would not be a prob-
lem. A tournament was held every week on each play-
ground. There were two divisions, one for boys and girls
eleven years of age and under and one for those twelve to
thirteen years of age. The winner in both age divisions for
all eighteen playgrounds earned the right to participate in
the finals on television Sunday afternoons from one to two
o’clock. There were very few times during-the summer that
a finalist did not appear to represent his playground.

Each week a station photographer went to one of the play-
grounds and took movies of the children, staff, and facilities.
These were featured on the playground salute at the end
of each program.

Another feature on the Sunday afternoon show was the
presentation of awards. Each child Who won a playground
tournament was given a four-inch trophy. The city champion
and the runner-up were given larger trophies furnished by
KMTV. Each week the trophies were then presented by
some well-known person in the community such as the chair-
man of the park and recreation commission, the mayor, the
sponsor, and the manager of the station.

 

MR. MCCLINTOCK is superintendent of parks and recreation
in Omaha, Nebraska.

APRIL 1956

' R. B. McClintock

Everyone in the department and at the station was very
concerned about spectator interest, and we were surprised
at the amount that was indicated. Our most glowing re-
ports came from older people who were beyond the age of
participation in any athletic activity, or who had no chil-
dren participating in the program. During the summer the '
television station made the usual surveys of viewer interest
and the fact that the program had a very high rating was
indicated when the station said that they would carry on the
same idea next year.

One of the things that evidenced itself more than any-
thing else was an enthusiasm that had not been present pre-
viously. The youngsters developed a spirit of pride in their
own playground and the determination that they were going
to practice for their television program. Many came to the
grounds and worked for hours to improve their techniques.
Our playground registration increased from 8,046 in 1954
to 12,988 in 1955, and the attendance from 178,322 in 1954
to 223,292 in 1955. The program for the ten weeks was as

follows:

Grand

Junior Senior Total
Tether Ball ............................................ .. 362 231 593
Washers ................................................ .. 397 321 718
Yo-yo ...................................................... .. 321 206 527
Rope Jumping ...................................... .. 461 321 782
Paddle Ball .......................................... .. 276 282 558
Box Hockey .......................................... .. 464 324 788
Hopscotch ............................................ .. 562 412 974
Tomato Can Golf .................................. .. 610 336 946
Swimming ............................................ .. 111 122 233

_.....—.—._—-——-

3564 2555 61 19

The numbers indicated are those who actually partici-
pated in each of the tournaments. Many children took part
in the activities on the playground but did not participate in
the tournament.

KMTV printed playground membership cards which were
used, on the back of which there was the television schedule
for the summer. They also printed a very fine brochure cov-
ering the entire program, which is available to anyone who
would care to write us for a copy. It includes pictures,
graphs, and stories about this cooperative program that
meant so much to the children and adults of our community.

This show did a great deal to educate the people of the
community as to what goes on on a playground. It is a pro-
gram that we would certainly recommend to every recrea-
tion department and to every radio and television station
in the country. I

163

 

 

 
 
 

 

Mrs. Ruth Peeler Wins Award
Mrs. Ruth B. Peeler of Seattle, Wash-

ington, recently elected to the board of
directors of the National Recreation As-
sociation, has received the Cornelius
Amory Pugsley 1955 Silver Award for
outstanding state park and historic
services to the State of Washington.
Mrs. Peeler became interested in state
parks as a lay citizen immediately fol-
lowing World War II. Of her notable
contributions during the past ten years,
the more significant are: the reorganiza-
tion of the state park administration,
placing the financial support for the
state park program on a sound basis,
the establishment of a state historic sites
program, and the provision of a com-
munity recreation consultant service in
the state park program.

Pakistan NRA

The formation of the National Rec-
reation Association of Pakistan with
headquarters at 41 Cotton Exchange,
Karachi, took place early in March. The
executive committee consists of Dr. G.
M. Mehkri, professor of social work in
Karachi; Miss Musarat J ahan Taimuri,

 
    
 
 
   
     

. Fifty Years Ago
In April 1906 the Playground As-
sociation of America - — now the

National Recreation Association
was organized in Washington,

D. C.

a research OHicer in the Government of
Pakistan; Mazhar Yusuf, editor of Pak-
istan Textile Journal, Karachi; Mrs.
Naema Sultan Begum, a professor in a
college in Karachi.

The new association’s letterhead car-
ries the following information: “The
National Recreation Association of Pak-

164

' A REPORTER’S NOTEBOOK

istan is a non-profit, non-political and
non-sectarian civic organization. It is
supported by voluntary contributions
and is dedicated to the service of all in-
dividuals and agencies, public and pri-
vate, concerned with recreation.”

Indiana Governor’s Conference
On Recreation

On April 16, the Governor’s Confer-
ence on Recreation will be held at the
Indiana University Student Union. The
theme of this year’s conference is “Our
Key, Leadership.” Park and recreation
leaders from-throughout Indiana have
been asked to bring two young people
who are thinking of going into the rec-
reation field as a career. Service clubs
have been invited to sponsor boys and
girls who have shown leadership ability
in church, school, and club recreation
programs.

Tulsa’s New Center

A new community center in Tulsa,
Oklahoma, was opened late last Novem-
ber. The $70,000 structure, at Frank
H. Reed Park, is constructed of tile with
stone trimming. It is the second of three
new centers being provided by park
bond funds. Facilities include a main
room which will seat three hundred and
fifty people, a lounge, craft room, read-
ing room, game room, kitchen, and a
large patio. A high school sewing class
made all of the drapes for the new build-
ing—and served the refreshments at the
opening ceremonies. Chairs for the cen-
ter were given by the Lions Club. Craft
classes will be taught by students from
the junior and senior high schools un-

der the supervision of a recreation
director.

Hawaii Tecn-Agers Play Host

The Leeward Playground Teen-Age

Council in Hawaii entertained twenty-

two teen-agers from the Los Angeles
recreation department’s Hollywoodland
Camp for Girls. The hosts held an In-
ternational Night Program for their
guests who had worked and saved for
a full year to make possible a ten-day
trip to the Islands.

Community Center with
Western Decor

At Menard Community Center in
Galveston, Texas, everything is Western
style—tables, chairs, cowboy pictures
and ‘murals. Horseshoes, lariats, lan-
terns, spurs, horse collars, branding
irons, old plow handles, saddles, boots,
bits, chains, bridles, stirrups, wheels, a
roll of barb wire, deer heads, and other
ranch paraphernalia are hung from the
walls, ceilings, doorways and pillars.
The center is known as theu“Teen
Korral.”

Dubba Dooley, superintendent of rec-
reation, acquired thisiine assortment of

Forty-nine Years Ago

In April 1907 the first issue of

THE PLAYGROUND—now RECREA-
TION magazine — was published.

 

Western articles by having “Wanted”
cards printed and tacking them on bul-
letin boards in the country stores.

“Si-BO-Gi”

Imaginations of southern Illinois
school children are hitting on all cylin-
ders, udges decided in the Educational
Council of One Hundred camp-naming
contest for the council’s public school

camping site at Little Grassy Lake in
Crab Orchard National Wildlife Refuge

near Giant City State Park. While
wading through more than six hundred
entries, they tossed out such gems as
“Watery Waters Camp,” “Horse Hide
Camp,” “The Jolly Rocken Inn,” and
“Shawnee-Wanee-Pawnee.” Among the
more elaborate names suggested was
“The Illinois Historical Play and Study
Grounds.” (“We’d sure have trouble
getting THAT on a T-shirt,” quipped a
judge.)

Linda Sue Whitaker, a Mt. Vernon
sixth-grader, submitted the name finally
selected: “Si-Bo-Gi,” an abbreviation
for “Southern Illinois Boys and Girls.”

RECREATION

“A fundamental condition for
the permanent development of a
free people is that they shall in
childhood learn to govern them-
selves. Self-government is to be
learned as an experience, rather
than taught as a theory. Hence in

a permanent democracy, adequate
playgrounds for all children are a
necessity.” ——- Luther H. Gulick,
President, Playground Associa-

tion of America, in The Play-
ground, April 1907.

Friendship Corners

Miami Beach, Florida, has opened the

first in a series of “Friendship Corners”
——-meeting places for senior citizens,
home folks, and guests. Friendship
Corner No. 1 is on the Broad Walk at
Pier Park Fishing Pier on the Atlantic
Ocean at Biscayne Street. Two more
will be under construction soon. Rec-
reation equipment, tables, and benches
will be available at these gathering
places.

Citizen Provides Park

Centerville, Tennessee, will have some
fine recreation facilities because a local
citizen made the provisions in his will.
The late C. W. Thompson, a prominent
road contractor, set aside a sum of
$85,000 for this purpose. To date, six
acres of property have been purchased,
at a cost of $15,000, for an area that
will contain a swimming pool and rec-
reation center.

 

APRIL 1956

 

Oklahoma’s Great Easter Pageant

On Easter Sunday, an estimated 200,-
000visitors will once again attend the
magnificent annual sunrise pageant in
south central Oklahoma. The thirty-
one-year-old spectacle, currently held
in a huge natural amphitheater in the
Wichita Mountains Game Refuge, fea-
tures a two-hour enactment of the Pas-
sion Play which ends just as the sun
rises. The cast of this moving drama
are all nonprofessional. The stage set-
tings—reproductions of sites in and
around the Holy City—are permanent
and historically correct. Easter music
is played before the pageant—and a
sky-written benediction ends the totally
impresswe program.

Tribute to Donald C. Wingo

The Norfolk, Virginia, recreation
department staff and many other friends
recently honored Donald C. Wingo, the
assistant superintendent of recreation,
with a surprise party and award as a
tribute to his excellent service. A wrist
watch and a plaque bearing a citation
of merit were presented to him with due
ceremony. Mr. Wingo, who was em-
ployed as Norfolk’s first full-time su-
pervisor of recreation for Negroes in
1946 and promoted to his present posi-
tion in 1950, has received many honors
for his work. He was on the program
at National Recreation Congresses in
New Orleans, Boston, and Philadelphia,
and has served as a member of the NRA
Southern District National Advisory
Committee and as vice-president and
board member of the Virginia Recrea-
tion Association.

? Came the Spring with all
' its splendor,

3/ All its birds and all it's
blossoms,

All its flowers, and leaves,
and grasses.

—From The Song of Hiawatha
by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow

Retribution Plus—for Litterbugs

Magistrates in Maryland, are now
giving trash tossers twenty-four hours
in which to clean up not only their own
litter, but all other debris in the area
where they have been found guilty of

dumping. Reports indicate that the new
measure is effective.

Facts and Figures

Long Beach, California—Bond issue
approved by vote of 59,276 to 18,823

authorized $4,900,000 for recreation
and park improvements.

Rapid City, South Dakota —- Demands
for additional pools have been so strong
that the $80,000 balance being held in
escrow from a 1951 $200,000 swimming
pool bond issue, plus an additional bond

issue of $200,000 last fall, will be used

for the construction of two more pools.

Corvallis, Oregon—An additional one-
and-a-half—mills levy for parks and rec-
reation was approved by a two to one
vote.

“The success of a playground de-
pends upon wise, genial, skillful

leadership.”——-THE PLAYGROUND,
May 1907.

 

IN MEMORIAM
Dr. Charles Hershey

Dr. Charles Hershey, chairman of the
park and recreation board of Colorado
Springs, died in December at the age
of seventy-seven. Delegates to the Na-
tional Recreation Congress at Denver
will remember the active part he played
at that time as chairman of one of the
general sessions and also of one of the
section meetings for members of boards
and commissions. Dr. Hershey was also
on hand to greet those delegates who
made the special trip to Colorado
Springs immediately following the
Congress.

He was dean of men and later dean
of the college at Colorado College from
1923 until his retirement in 1947. While
an official of the college and after his
retirement he was active in many phases
of academic, religious, and community
life, and he made a substantial contribu-
tion to the development of the municipal
recreation program in Colorado
Springs.

165

A Park
Creative Playshop

The summer visitor to Cain Park
follows a magic tune . . .

Robert Chambers

IF YOU ARRIVE at Cain Park at about ten o’clock any sum-
mer morning you have no doubt that it is a busy place.
There are two signs flanking the ivy-covered main gate, just
off a busy main street in Cleveland Heights, Ohio. One car-
ries an announcement of the. current attraction at the big,
outdoor Cain Park Theatre; the other, the words “Cain Park
Creative Playshop.” The distant sounds of an orchestra
tuning up and the shouts of children which come to you
through the trees give evidence that rehearsals are going on
right now.

Like one of the kids following the magic tune of the piper
in The Pied Piper o] Hamelin, you follow the path which
.leads into the park. Almost immediately you come to a
group of children practicing ballet positions on the grass.
It is hard work—they have just learned the positions this
morning—but they are sticking to it gamely, and even the
boys seem to like it. Their leader (who dances in the Metro-
politan Opera Ballet, you learn later) gathers the group
around her and says, “Now that we’ve learned the positions,
let’s have some fun with them.

“Think of something you’d like to be—a princess or a
voodoo witch doctor or a bouncy rubber toy—and work out
your own dance using some of these positions as a start.”

The youngsters go into several small huddles. Before long
one grouP announces that it is ready with its dance. A ten-
year-old starts to play on the only musical instrument in
sight--a tom-tom hanging from a nearby tree—and the
other three children begin their dance. It doesn’t matter
that they have forgotten to announce what they are dancing;
anyone can see that they are witch doctors. _

The light-hearted tinkle of a piano draws you to another
crowd of children under another tree. They are listening
open-mouthed to Kipling’s story, How the Elephant Got His
Trunk. The young man telling the story is seated at a small
piano, and when he comes to the exciting parts be inter-
rupts himself to illustrate them with music. One of these

'— ;.._— r—_—r ,— — a . 77— 7 7,—

Mtt. ( .ll.‘\ mums is director of family plays at Ohio State Uni-
versity where he is doing graduate sttuly. He has let! crea-
itL‘t’ dramatic activities at a hospital, public library, com-
munity renter, Y.M.C./l., boys’ clubs, and summer camps.

5] ()6

 

- w!» it ' .l 4‘ - ' l h u I‘~.

* ‘. ""‘,_,« _‘ ' vi

_ Two young playshop Tom Sawyers find realistic spot
for rehearsal. Here, all play is conducted out-of—doors.

exciting parts comes when the crocodile slithers off his rock
into the water.

“How did the music go that time?” asks the storyteller.

“It went th-r-r-ump!” says one child.

“It was fast,” says another fascinated listener, “fast and
. . . kind of squiggly.”

You realize that these children will be the adults of to-
morrow—adults who will understand and support their own
civic opera companies and symphony orchestras because of
the background they are receiving now in creative listening.

The next group you see looks at first as if it were right in
the middle of a good game of cops and robbers. Two chil-
dren—the “bad guys”—are trying to look tough; three

others—the “good guys”—are giving them an old-fashioned
third degree. .

“What is your trade?”

“Why aren’t you working today?”

“Who told you to decorate these statues?” they demand.

It hits you all at once: this isn’t cops and robbers, it’s the
opening scene of Julius Caesar! These youngsters—none
of whom are out of the sixth grade yet—are play-acting
Shakespeare’s great tragedy! The words they use are mostly
their own, of course; but now and then a colorful sixteenth—

 

, v . -‘ " V“? .4 A.)
i ’5‘ : ' * ‘ ': ’ A
» W ~--a»-_a..~     ~~

A rhylles class using one of the grassy “outdoor class-
rooms. (.hlldrcn often bring their lunch, stay all day.

RECREATION

 

i .. ‘.
A creative dramatics Urou )la in" a scene in a favorite
- a B I
story. Top creative leaders are recruited for the season.

century phrase slips in. They don’t know how the story ends
yet, because their leader has read them only the first scene
so far. But on succeeding mornings they will hear the rest
of the story; and they will play it all like this, a new scene
each day until they have play-acted the whole play.

It doesn’t matter in what direction you turn; something
different is happening in each. You go backstage at the
small amphitheatre where this afternoon’s play will be given,
and find yourself in the middle of last-minute scene paint-
ing and costume fitting. On the back lawn a group of high-
school-age young people are rehearsing a radio script which
one of them has written. On the front lawn a group of
younger teen-agers are making puppets with strips of old
newspaper and flour paste. You are the only audience; there
isn’t even one child standing aside with his hands in his
pockets. The name “playshop” is a good one, you think.

One of the many ways in_ which the Cain Park Creative

 

Playshop is unique is that it is owned and operated by the
city of Cleveland Heights. Dr. Dina Rees Evans, who founded
it in 1938, is still energetically directing its activities for the
city. Thanks mainly to her broad hints to the city council,
there have been many improvements 'in the beautiful park
which houses the playshop.

Now included in its facilities are the pint-sized Alma
Theatre, suitable for either puppet or live shows, and con-
taining backstage dressing rooms and workshop space neces-
sary for the six children’s plays given each summer; the
combination radio shack and ticket booth; and the staff
office and storeroom has the friendly nickname of “The
Hut.” Playshop classes still are held outdoors on the grass,
which is, after all, the best place to be in the summertime.
During this past summer—its eighteenth of consecutive
operation—there were twenty-two people on the playshop
staff and three hundred and fifty children enrolled in the
various classes. '

Dr. Evans spares no effort in recruiting top artist-teachers
for the six-week playshop season. Last year her staff in-
cluded George Latshaw, whose puppet characters are na-
tionally known through moving pictures and television; Bill
Bryan, Fulbright scholar and concert pianist; plus other
leading directors and teachers of the creative arts from all
parts of the Midwest. A tuition fee of twenty-five dollars is
paid by each child, and in this way the playshop can be self-
supporting.

Without asking the youngsters, you can tell they’re getting
more than their money’s worth. Although playshop sessions
end officially at noon, few children leave at that time. Many
bring their lunches and stay all day. A few are busy with
rehearsals in the afternoon, but most of them stick around
simply because they like to be here, or to work on special
projects of their own—a puppet, an unfinished picture, or
a TV script.

“Yes,” you think again, “Cain Park Creative Playshop
has been well-named. A playshop is just what it is!” I

 
 
 

SAFETY

YOUTH

From the Safety Charter for
Children and Youth as developed
by a joint committee represent-
ing a group of youth-serving
organizations and the National

Safety Council. The charter ap-
pears in full in the March, 1956,

issue of Safety Education.

“For every child a community which recognizes and plans for his needs, pro-
tects him against physical dangers, provides him with safe and wholesome places
for play and recreation. . . .

A community where all agencies and organizations, through individual and
cooperative effort, develop a program of action that meets conditions affecting

1. A community that provides for the safety of its citizens.

2. A community, rural or urban, that provides for and encourages safe living on
the streets and highways, on the job, in recreation, and at home.

3. A community that considers the safe route to and from school, church, play-
ground, and other youth centers in its planning.

4. A community with adequate regulations and enforcement for traffic, trans-
portation, building and fire safety.

5. A community that accepts its responsibility for appropriate leadership and
supervision of group functions.

6. A community wherein safe and reasonable recreation programs are provided
for children,and youth, under adult guidance and supervision competent to assist
children and youth in making appropriate social adjustments.

for the safety of youth.
 All children and youth need:
ami

* “Children’s Charter,” White House Conference on Child Health and Protection, 1930.

 
    

59-)!-

      
       
       
   
   
   
         
         
    
    
    

  
 

 

APRIL 1956

167

Like the retur ing ro',
the cry of “Let . play 11”
is a familiar Sign f spri g.

THE ANGUISHED p
baseball and softb
will soon beset the ears of nearly - e
in the nation. That old bugaboo, spr : ;
be with us.

Actually “spring reconditioning” is me 1
never-ending cycle of conditioning. The um
of five cities of wide experience in baseball p s
that there is no substitute for continual maintenanc

Here, from Battle Creek (Michigan), Livingston,
Jersey) ,Chicago, Cincinnati, and Dallas, are presented ews
with remarkably little variation in basic thinking. A direct
their efforts toward the safest and best possible areas at 'ni-
mum maintenance cost, an aim of good recreation admin -
tration. Some differences of opinion arise, and an effort has
been made to present those differences fairly.

, The five contributors whose collaboration makes possible
the following digest are W. G. Scheibe, superintendent of
parks, Dallas; T. E. O’Halloran, superintendent landscape
division, Chicago Park District; Robert D. Sisco, superin-
tendent of recreation and parks department, Livingston;
Herb A. Davis, superintendent of the public recreation com-
mission, Cincinnati; and Arch R. Flannery, superintendent
of recreation, parks and buildings, Battle Creek.

The comprehensive material submitted was digested by
the national office of the American Amateur Baseball Con-
gress in the hope it would be helpful to the profession.

Original construction is omitted entirely since justice
obviously could not be done such a major study. Refer-
ences to basic construction are made only when “applicable
as corrective measures for existing conditions.

The five cities cooperating vary in conditions of temper-
ature, humidity, topography and soil—and hence in main-

tenance problems.
Battle Creek maintains 9 baseball fields, 6 softball fields;

    

- e -, and would-be players, 0
“for = 'amond to practice on”
recreation executive

‘ onditioning, will

. phase of a
opinion
. ion is

 

MR. BROWN is president of the American Amateur Baseball
Congress.

168

496 softball fie . s

  
    

 ompil by C. 0. Brown

allas, a total of 150, of h'  skinned, 1 baseball
(grass infield) exhibiti n e; ' 1nnati,47 baseball and
73 softball fields; ° gston, 3 baseball and 6 softball
fields; and Chica , e staggering total of 119 baseball and

    
   
    
    
    
  
  
  
     
 

ass Versus “Skinned” Infields

e perennial “skinned” vs. grass infield question,
' from Cincinnati reports, “Skinned infields are used

- economically than the sodded areas at the same play-
- evel. Having the infields skinned also makes it possible
0 use a field for both softball and baseball since baselines
can be shifted easily to the required distance.”

From Chicago, O’Halloran says, “There are two schools
of thought, one advocating grassed-over infields, the other
calling for skinned infields. Both have merit because much
depends upon the degree of use and quality of soils. A well-
established sodded infield used exclusively for baseball can
be maintained with a minimum of attention if only a normal
number of games are played on it each week. This is not
possible on diamonds used a number of times every day, or
where baseball and softball are played on the same diamond,
because grass is worn bare across the center of the diamond
and holes or depressions are being made by player activity.
. . . The skinned infield increases the dust problem, but it
also eliminates the hazard of personal injuries from crazin
bouncing baseballs, and makes for better played games.”

Sisco’s attitude at Livingston is different: “A good grass
cover on any diamond is essential. It provides color that
Increases the esthetic value of the area, forms a safety cush-

ion that helps protect players from injury, and eliminates
the nuisance of mud and dust.”

Dallas uses both clay and grass, reports an average of
fourteen and a half games per week on their exhibition base-
ball diamond. Battle Creek agrees with Livingston, reports
in excess of twenty games per week on some grass infields

RECREATION

without undue damage. ,
Chicago notes the increasing trend toward playing midget
or Little League baseball on regulation softball diamonds.

This frequently requires longer base-paths and piging‘di’sr

tance. Thus a second pitcher’s rubber mu? installed
behind the first one and, inasmuch as both Jr; bers'must be
at the same height, the ground betweenfiéém should be
perfectly level. This arrangement 13 diHicngt,
ble, on grass infields. 

3
Advance Fall Maintengnce l.

   
 
 
     
  

Chicago, Cincinnati, and Battle CreeZk stat?
pitch as many major repairs in late fall, as  sible, capi-
talize on winter settling and compaction, citing  iny springs

in the Midwest as undesirable for reconditl 3

4. I .I 

K,

 

General Maintenance

Practice appears to be similar everywhere. O’Halloran
writes: “Routine maintenance calls for raking the skinned
areas, filling depressions near bases and pitcher’s rubber
as often as possible, light watering daily during dry spells
and dragging at least once per week to smooth over all bare
areas, after the worst ravages of winter are repaired: Drag-
ging operations can be done either by hand labor or with a
light rubber-tired farm tractor or pick-up truck. A heavy
duty power mower also can be used for this purpose. Steel
or cocoa mats, wooden drags, pieces of chain link fence, or

 

The baseball diamond at Memorial Field, Mt. Vernon,
New York, has an excellent, well-maintained infield.

other leveling equipment can be used to advantage. Drag-
ging should start at the outer edge of the infield and work
toward pitcher’s rubber. Outfields should be inspected peri-
odically for hazardous conditions. Depressions should be
filled promptly to avoid personal injuries.”

Cincinnati’s Operations are almost identical, though Davis
further advises: “Conditioning is done by five mobile
crews. Two are combined with grass-cutting outfits and the
pick-up trucks carrying the mowing equipment are used for
dragging infields while grass is being cut. Three crews do
nothing but condition fields. . . . Three teams work on
‘ Sunday mornings, starting at the break of dawn to drag
and recondition fields for heavy Sunday play after equally

heavy use Saturday by knothole (junior) teams.”

APRIL 1956

0t impossi-i

[£2 grass infields,
 into the i mediate adjoining grass during the pla

Important Fall Preparation

Sisco notes: “At the close of the season, the diamoJ

Wshould be leveled and trued prior to any reseeding p1

 But owning to action of alternating freezing a:
ng ad where traffic may rut the sk1nned area dur1:

    
 
  

93/
g.
H.

' I%e off-season it is best to save leveling until early Spring

I’ For spring 

€61; along the baseli'. e fences is removed and placed on the i
I

conditioning, Dallas reports that clay blor

field. Flannery f Battle Creek says: “With exclusive
find considerable clay is washed a]

§

' j season. In t e fall grades are checked, 3 sod cutter

u  to rcmove the grass two or three feet back from t
skinhg, sprea and the grade there is lowered as necessary
restore?“ io " true condition. Then the sod is replaced. Tl
preventgat e grass growing through soil deposited on top

“wwwmitsarid developing an undesirable ridge on the apron of t

sod.”

The Humble Sod Cutter

Flannery notes, incidentally, “A sod cutter is a rarely a
preciated tool. Not only do we use it for cutting sod, but f
cutting foul lines and for edging the diamond, a great tirr
saver. We also use it for loosening soil on the infield befo
rolling. One cutter will cut an acre and a half of sod in

- half-day. I believe more departments could develop uses f
this homely tool with great benefits.”

 

. i - ,  mama, . k r m 1,, . r V rah“;  W '

Rolling and dragging are a part of the routine care
and maintenance important for any type of infield.

Dust Problems

Dust problems are much greater where “skinned infield:
are the rule. Cincinnati thinks it has lessened its dust pro'.
lem by using crankcase oil drained from city cars, applin
it twice a season (once in the spring) in just the rig]
amount and properly mixed with clay to avoid discolor
tions. Davis also reports that fields are sprinkled befo:
dragging in order to moderate this problem. Battle Cree
reports a negligible problem since it has no skinned i1
fields, differs with Chicago on use of molder’s sand, reporte
later, in the belief this aggravates the dust problem. In th
instance, the term appears to be applied to a slightly diffe
ent mixture. Dallas stresses watering, and in acute case
uses calcium chloride, a deliquescent chemical. as»-

'16

[Jillillég

Use of hydrated lime appears to be almost universal. to
eliminate danger of burns both to players and turf. All
stress the importance of re-surveying lines every spring.

Soils Recommended

Scheibe writes that Dallas, which uses a heavy clay loam
or a light clay, has evolved the following procedures: “After
in fields are smoothed in the spring. five yards of sharp mason
sand are added. It is applied to cut down clay blowing
and to give a better infield finish when dragged. The sand
has a screen analysis as follows: On #10 mesh screen, 6 per
cent retained; on #20 mesh, 23 per cent retained; on #40
mesh, 58 per cent retained; on #100 mesh, 97 per cent
retained.”

Battle Creek uses all sandy loam, no clay, except on the
home plate and pitcher’s box areas. While no “blue clay”
is available, as Chicago reports, Battle Creek hauls top soil
of similar properties fifteen miles for this purpose. Living-
ston recommends raising grades on base paths to eliminate
standing water after rains, particularly in the spring, to
compensate for later wash.

Cincinnati uses a mixture of 85 per cent clay and 15 per
cent sand, making sure that the clay is entirely free of
gravel. Chicago uses 50 per cent loam soil, 50 per cent mold-

er’s sand on “skinned” infields. Molder’s sand is a heavy-

oily substance which blends well with loam, remains free of
vegetation, does not become dry or dusty, nor does it dis-
color baseballs. It can be raked or dragged with ease. How-
ever, it is scarce and available rarely except as a by-product
of certain foundries. It must be screened thoroughly to
remove‘all pieces of metal or other foreign matter.

Writes O’Halloran: “The material now generally used
throughout the Chicago Park District is a mixture of soils
labeled ‘Special Black Earth’ as distinguished from garden
soil or regular black earth, both of a more or less sandy
nature. It should contain not more than 50 per cent clay
(yellow or brown and very little blue), mixed with 30-40
per cent silt or loam and 10-20 per cent fine gravel or coarse
sand. This combination generally remains loose and friable
even in hot dry weather, yet does not become dusty or pow-
dery to be blown about by wind or kicked away by player
activity.

“While blue clay . . : is ideal for clay tennis courts because
the surface is firm but springy underneath, this condition is
brought about only through several daily waterings. Other-
wise it bakes hard during the summer months and is haz-
ardous. . . . Its use on a diamond is not recommended ex-
cept in the fifteen-foot-circle at the pitcher’s rubber and
around homeplate.”

Advance Weed Control

Strong turf is the best defense against weeds and chemical
spray should be used sparingly to avoid damage to grasses.
All report they use it only when the weeds begin to reach
their real growing season. If a bad year is encountered in
Battle Creek, weed killers are also used during the first week
in October. . ~

l 70

Fertilizing and Seeding

. - g; .
“Just like humans,” says Sisco, turf grasses make their

best growth when fed properly.” All five cities agree that
early spring and late fall seeding is desirable. Sisco reminds

us, “Fertilizers should be applied only on dry days and when
the dew is off the grass.” Should fertilization be necessary

after spring preparation, Battle Creek and Livingston warn
against too-heavy applications, advising several light treat-
ments instead. Flannery emphasizes the necessity of aerat-
ing soil in advance of fertilization and there is general agree-
ment that water should be available immediately to avoid
burning and to make the chemicals more easily available to
plant roots.

Sisco stresses the desirability of taking PH readings be-
fore application, by any of the good but ineXpensive kits

 

Aerial view of play. area in Battle Creek, Michigan,
which maintains nine baseball fields, Six softball fields.

on the market, as improper PH may prevent chemical fer-
tilizers from releasing nutrients. He writes, “As a general
rules ground limestone should be applied whenever the PH
rate is 6.0 or lower; although it may be applied at any
season—fall or winter is best. Ground limestone reacts
slowly and it may be several months before it becomes
effective. Flannery uses “Vigoro” on infields, particularly
in the spring, with success.

Cincinnati uses heavier fertilization in early spring. Dal-
las seconds Sisco’s stressing of soil tests, gauging its fertilizer
applications accordingly, from a base of one pound of nitro-
gen per one thousand square feet.

Cincinnati uses a seeding mixture of 60 per cent blue
grass, 20 per cent meadow fescue and 20 per cent white top
in fall seeding, but s'ubstitutes the faster germinating Italian
rye for the white top in the spring. Timothy is employed
where there is an erosion problem.

Battle Creek uses two-thirds blue grass, one-third red top
and fescue, mixed. Dallas, because of climatic conditions.
leans toward Bermuda grass for infields.

Mowing

A high cut of grass is generally employed in the spring,
Will] a deeper cut being used progressively as the season

RECREATION

advances, to provide maximum strength for the grass. One
and one-half inches is' a good mark for infield cuttings,
although Dallas and Battle Creek have had good success with
one-inch as the season progresses and Dallas even has em-
ployed one-half—inch where very fast infields are desired.
This, of course, is influenced by the strength of the Bermuda
grass used. Originally Dallas’ cut was two and onenhalf
inches but was found to be too slow. Dallas finds it profit-
able to remove cut grass until all excess mat is eliminated,
if a one-half—inch height of cut is to be maintained. Sisco
warns against dull blades on reel or rotary mowers, to pre-
vent pulling rather than cutting. Battle Creek and Dallas
cut twice weekly, as soon as the grass has attained any
strength.

\Vaterin g

There is uniform agreement on warning against over-
watering; but all agree that slow soaking to four or five
inches is necessary. Many stress advance proper aeration
of soil as an aid, and in the spring as a necessity.

Sodding

Where unfavorable conditions indicate sod replacement,
policies vary. Cincinnati has a general purchase order set
up for use as needed. Battle Creek maintains a small sod
nursery, as does Livingston. Dallas has found it unneces-
sary. Chicago provides its own sod as necessary, using Ken-
tucky blue grass for infield work, thus making it possible
to use new diamonds more quickly as growing grass on the
field retires the area from play for a prolonged period.

Compaction

Compaction is a problem of both grass and “skinned”

Gustavus Town Kirby

Gustavus Town Kirby, a board member and officer of the National Recrea-

areas. Battle Creek and Livingston report at length on it.
Both agree that proper aeration is the best answer to much
compaction. Sisco says, “When drought conditions prevail,
aerated turf develops deeper roots, making it better able
to stand dryness. ‘Where too much water is the problem,
aeration ventilates the soil and allows oxygen to reach the
suffocated grass roots. . . . Failure to aerate properly gives
you a nice choice of browned or drowned grass.” Flannery
says, “In the spring and in dry seasons, we are particularly
careful to aerate properly before every watering.”

Battle Creek reports negligible compaction problems be-
cause of type of soil used. Livingston reminds that even on
fields of high sand content, a full season of play causes con-
siderable compaction which must be remedied in the spring.

When acutely compacted, clay fields should be disked with
loam as a corrective measure. Spike drags or spike harrows
are recommended.

Battle Creek uses its faithful sod cutters in fighting com-

paction before it gets “too far” since they break up top cov-
ering excellently.

Stones

A common problem is that of pebbles and stones brought
to the surface during the winter by frost action. A correc-
tive measure, of course, is dragging bare surfaces to dis-
lodge such matter and make removal possible. Better is the
preventative method of proper subsurface. While slightly
more expensive in the beginning, spring care will save its
slight additional cost many times over by later elimination
of “repeat performances.” ”

So there you have combined experience of five good "men.
We trust you may find a “wrinkle” or two you may have
missed somewhere along the line in your own experience. I

In Memoriam

tion Association for forty-eight years, died at his home in Bedford Hills, New
York, on February 27, at the age of eighty-two. Mr. Kirby was often referred
to as the “elder statesman” of amateur athletics in the United States.

He was a member of the first American Olympic Committee in 1895 and of
each succeeding committee, and also served as president of the United States
Olympic Association. His international interest in recreation and sports won
him decorations from the governments of Sweden, France, Belgium, Germany,
and Finland.

In 1908 Mr. Kirby became a member of the board of directors and treasurer
of the National Recreation Association, then known as the Playground Assoc-
iation of America. He served in these capacities continuously until 1946 and
from then until his death continued as treasurer emeritus of the Association.

A lawyer by profession, Mr. Kirby was from his youth an enthusiastic par-
ticipant in track and field events, tennis, golf, baseball, sailing, horsemanship,
and many other sports. These interests lead to administrative leadership in
sports. He was active in the Amateur Athletic Union, Public Schools Athletic
League of New York, Boys Athletic League, and the Sportsmanship Brother-

hood, as well as many other organizations.

APRIL 1956

 

Gustavus T. Kirby
1874-] 956

171

     

   

The slide chute, a familiar piece of equipment. is placed at
an approach so it will introduce the child to the community.

, i 0‘ _
__. ‘ 1L“ a ih-vdha‘ 7-. a. f

1‘.

often drawn to the area by the odd white

Shy yodhgsters are -
pipe because they can, at a glance, look through it to the end.

All Improvise

Although called a “studied disorder” by a local newspaper, this
playground shows evidence of careful and imaginative planning.

OUNGSTERS in Belleville, New Jersey,

last summer were welcomed by a

new type of playground. We call it an
Improvised Play Community, “impro-
vised” because its component parts are
concrete sewer pipes, railroad ties, a
slide chute, a corrugated iron pipe, two
balance beams, some railroad track, and
a horizontal ladder. It is a play com-
munity because its parts are arranged
so as to make each child’s actions affect
the others. Children learn through play
to use imagination, to give and take,
to meet frustrations head on, to help one
another, to face challenges, and to civ-
ilizc their play. There are situations
in which the younger ones can excel
and yet others where the older may as-
sist the younger.

The theories and philosophies of Pro-
fessor Joseph Brown of Princeton Uni-
versity inspired this improvisation.
(See RECREATION, December 1954,

“One Body Plus One Mind Equals One
Person” by Joseph Brown.) Professor

MR. COOK is the superintendent of rec-
reation in Belleville, New Jersey.

172

Brown has reached deep into the true
meaning and purpose of play. Neither
this author nor Professor Brown ad-
vocate the discard of traditional play
equipment, but, rather, an eXpansion
thereof.

A study of children at play when they
are unsupervised will teach us much
about the type of equipment that will
have natural appeal for them. They all
are intrigued by tests of balance as
shown in their curb-walking, fence-
walking, boulder-standing, and so on.
Climbing is a must, they love to attain
any height, be it on a boulder, a dirt
pile, or a pile of wood. They like to be
looked up to by their younger play-
mates. The younger enjoy imitating
the older. Every playground director
has found children walking the seesaws
or climbing the slide chute.

Every recreation leader realizes that
play should help to equip the child with
the responses and resilience needed for
adult life. The play community is with-
in the municipal stadium, adjacent to
a traditional playground on one side
and a wrestling-tumbling platform on

the other. In front of the play commu-
nity is the athletic field, with its run-
ning track and the facilities for highly
organized games. This positioning of
the play community is important. Its
relationship with its surroundings will
be dealt with in a later paragraph. The
diagram on these pages will facilitate
your understanding of its layout.

The balance beams are each fourteen-
foot four-by-fours pivoted by a long
bolt run through two two-inch-diameter -
pipe uprights“ Height at the pivot point
is eighteen inches. Because there are
several holes, about eight inches apart,
in each balance beam, the balance points
can easily be changed, to present the
youngsters with different situations
from day to day. An optical illusion
has been created with the beams. Each
is painted in a long diagonal with one
side red and one side white. Children
will mentally walk the dark color and
enjoy the sensation of increased diffi-
culty as they approach the end where
the darker color thins.

Children were observed bending
every effort to walk both beams without
touching the ground. They seemed to
enjoy the beams more when they were
set up off center. Many of them en-
joyed standing at the balance point and

RECREATION

.VI'

 

c -' - ‘
- .. ‘ saw 

    

The horizontal ladder, also familiar, plays an important role
in carefully designed interrelation of community’s parts.

I“

. y Community

teetering the board. If one child fol-
lows another, he finds that the first
across has left the approach end of the
second beam in a raised position neces-
sitating a tricky balance feat in step-
ping across. It was considered “chick-
en” to use hands for this purpose. We

have, in effect, given the children two
seesaws on which they are permitted
to stand and walk.

Our railroad tracks are set up so as
to offer a twelve-foot length of real
track. Youngsters used this unit in all
the ways a child would walk any rail-

] ATHLETIC FIELD I

CORRUGATED IRON PIPE

¢—-—-————-——- ‘21'

TMDI TIONAL
PLMGRounD

RAILROAD Tl ES

wacsruuo/Tunstms

L [bADDEgl MA”-

uoauzoum : o..________,
’-————__-—__‘___——*

IMPROVISED PLAY COMMUNITY

BELLEVILLE,NEWJER$EY RECREATION DEPARTMENT
ROBERT F. COOK, SUPERINTEHDENY

MAY.1955

 

Note relation of play units and placement of community in regard to surroundings.

APRIL 1956

 

 "‘ m.— “ .x‘: "3-"

On the railroad track one can be a train, locomotive, passen-
ger, brakeman. All youngsters love to balance-walk the rails.

p.,
‘hon 9

~14... _ .-

u .

 

Robert E. Coolq

road track. Some balance-walk a single
rail, some walk the ties, some proceed
with one foot on a rail and the other
foot stepping only on the ties. Tiny tots
were observed sitting on the rails pre-
tending they were racehorses.

The horizontal ladder is familiar to
us all and needs little discussion except
to say that this ladder got more play
than the others not integrated into the
play community scheme.

The concrete sewer pipes used in the
play community are twenty-one inches
in diameter and four feet long. The
diagram shows that four of these pipes
are set so as to form a Y, a fifth pipe
placed close to one of the arms of the
Y, while another pipe is set in an up-
right position. One foot of dirt is put
into the center of the upright pipe as
assurance that any child able to get in
will be able to get out.

Children crawl through and walk on
the concrete sewer pipes. Shy young-
sters were often attracted into the com-
munity by the odd white pipe because
they could, at a glance, see through to
its end. The next step usually was to
crawl through the arms of the Y. Many
a game of follow-the-leader had its lead-
ership changed, when, as they entered
the Y from the base, another child

173

dropped in, in front of them, through
the space left at the juncture of the pipes
in the Y. An unwritten law soon ap-
peared giving right of way to young-
sters furthest into pipes in case of a
meeting. Smaller children have the ad-
vantage in crawling through the pipes,
and tiny tots can even turn around in-
side creating many unpredictable situ-
ations for larger children who might
be following. The upright pipe served
as place of refuge for youngsters who
found the going a little too rough. These
invariably emerged again to join in the
play.

The last three parts of the play (30111-
nlunity are so arranged as to be a unit;
and, yet, they should be discussed sep-
arately.

In the slide chute, which is placed at
one of the avenues of most common ap-
proach, we have a familiar piece of
equipment to introduce the child to the
community. This chute rises to a height
of seven inches and the children are
permitted to walk up it. We feel that
the firm grip necessary on the side rails
is pretty good guarantee against injury

everything for your

W

from one

resource!

inner l833 om" POOL has
risen but chouce for all
waterlrant Supplies

Send today. on camp
stationery. lor big. colorful

FREE (ATALOG No. AB

OCEAN POOL SUPPLY CO.

866 Sixth honor Nu York I. ll. Y.

 

during a climb.

Our railroad ties are piled in a sim-
ple square with one side fitted around
the large sewer pipe. Each tie projects
about one foot past the point at which
it crosses another tie. The center of the
pile of railroad ties is filled with a sand
and sawdust mixture to a depth of four-
teen inches. Seven feet is the height.
Very quickly the children decided that
this pile of ties was the stockade, the
fort, the skyscraper, and so on. They
never tire of exploring different ways
of climbing this structure. Sitting on
t0p of the stockade seems to give a su-
perior feeling to all, and children of all
ages seemed to gravitate to this point
and to be content sitting there and talk—
ing together. It was the social center
of the community. Although the older
children held the advantage in scaling
the sides of the stockade, the tots were
able to reach the same end by slipping
in between the ties.

Just as the pile of ties stimulated the
imagination of the children, so did the
large sewer pipes. The large pipe, which
is corrugated iron four inches in diam-
eter and twenty-one inches long, ter-
minates inside the stockade. It is gaily
colored in broad bands and has a series
of odd-shaped holes cut along its sides.
To some children this pipe is the tun-
nel; to others, the space ship, or the sub-
marine; and yet, to others, it is a moun-
tain. Its appeal reaches from two years
to fifteen years of age. Running on top
of the tunnel produces a lot of noise in-
side. Shouting, within the tunnel pro-
duces an echo effect. While some chil-
dren enjoy peeking out through the
holes in the tunnel, others are amused
by peeking in. To other youngsters the
holes are toeholds with which to mount
the pipe, and still others decide the holes
are windows in the space-ship. Spirit
of cooperation was much in evidence
here as they either boosted or pulled
each other to the top of the pipe. Having
attained the top, they often sat on it

and slid off.

You will note, upon second glance at
the diagram, that each element of the
play community leads the child to a situ-
ation where he must choose between at
least two others. For instance, after
walking the outermost balance beam 3
choice must be made between moving to

the horizontal ladder or on to the sec-
ond balance beam; at the end of the
second balance beam is a choice be-
tween climbing the stockade or walking
the railroad tracks, and so on through-
out the entire arrangement.

The policy in the improvised play
community was to de-supervise. A play-
ground director was near enough to
handle an emergency, but took no part
in the activities.

The placement of the play commu-
nity, with respect to the rest of the sta-
dium facilities, was important. The
proximity of the traditional playground
constitutes a tie between old and new.
The traditional playground, like the up-
right sewer pipe, served as a retreat
from the intensity of community play.
Further, I think it is always unwise to
discard tradition.

On the other side of the play com-
munity is an outdoor wrestling-tum-
bling set-up. Our children, at certain
times, were attracted to the mat by a
free romp period. The director then
led them from romping into accepting
instruction in tumbling. This served
to take the youngsters from the free
play of the community into the more
disciplined play of tumbling.

The constant sight of the athletic field
further led many of the youngsters into
the highly organized Sports and there
into the acceptance of more discipline.

During the ten weeks of our regular
summer playground program, we suf-
fered no injuries in the play commu-
nity. Playground attendance more than
tripled. Use of the play community re-
mained high throughout the entire sea-
son which is not true of other play-
grounds. Because of the high attend-
ance we enjoyed better participation in
our special programs such as handcraft
and sewing.

This first improvised play community
is not intended to represent an end. It
is just a start, a first application of a
vital theory. Many other materials
could well be used—such as boulders,
dirt piles, tree stumps, old buses and
innumerable others. Each recreation
leader will do well to apply his imagina-
tion and thereby prevent this type of
equipment becoming as stereotyped as
the swing, slide, sandbox, and seesaw
type of playground. I

RECREATION

A creative program which combines
crafts, drama, music, play writinrr.

Marionette

SHOW WAGON

R. Foster Blaisdell

THE CRAFT WORKSHOP started the whole thing! This was

opened on November 1, 1954, by the Topeka Recrea-
tion Commission at Gage Park, to serve a city-wide program
in crafts. Classes were scheduled for adults during the week,
days and evenings, with children’s crafts on Saturdays. As a
part of the children’s classes, however, there developed a
keen interest in the making of marionettes. Mrs. Erma Reed
White, a local housewife who had been interested in mar— ‘
ionettes as a hobby, was employed to teach a class in their
construction—“for both girls and boys, ten to fifteen years
old.

Anyone was welcome to attend, the only charge being
twenty-five cents for materials used; and each child was
responsible for providing his marionette’s costume. During
the winter approximately one hundred boys and girls made
marionettes, puppets, costumes, scenery, portable stages,
wroth scripts for plays and learned to (operate the mario-
nettes.

During the late spring weeks, the children’s classes con-
sidered the possibility of presenting marionette shows
throughout the summer on Topeka’s twenty playgrounds.
The first idea was to build a portable stage that could be
transported by car. It was soon realized, however, that trans-
.' portation problems would be solved if the department could
. build a marionette show wagon.

The recreation commission purchased a small used house-
 trailer and converted if, building a stage with places for the
‘ storage of scenery, props, and other equipment. The mario-
nette classes went to work on the writing and producing of
plays and skits. Decorating of the wagon was done by Jane

 

l Lea Hanger, one of the department’s secretaries, an art

major. “The Old Woman Who Lived in a Shoe,” was paint-

ed on the stage side. On the other side was a jovial clown

I with SHOW WAGON in large red and black letters. All decor—

ative designs were done in bright colors, and several changes
of scenery and backdrops were made by the children.

The department’s total investment in the show wagon, in-

 

 

?MR. BLAISDELL is superintendent of the Topeka Recreation
]Commission, Kansas.

APRIL 1956

 

Tots watch intently as marionettes perform. Most
shows are prepared by children under staff guidance,

cluding the trailer and all prOperties, was less than $500.

At the end of the school year, classes were reorganized to
meet each morning, Monday through Friday, from nine to
noon at the craft sh0p, and the children took part in the
preparations for the daily shows. The show wagon Visited
each playground twice during the summer, in a total sched-
ule of forty performances. A maintenance pick-up truck
delivered it to a playground each afternoon, and.returned
it at the end of the performance. Shows were presented at
3 P.M., Monday through Friday.

For the first half of the season, .forty-five-minute variety
shows of some six to eight acts were presented. They in-
cluded scenes from Pinocchio, Peter Pan, David Crockett,
Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs, and Alice in Wonder-
land. Persons of local color such as the mayor, governor,
and figures in the local news, were portrayed by characters
created by the youngsters themselves. The second half of
the summer featured short plays written by the children.

The show wagon is now equipped with lights of all kinds.
A lead line is plugged into a socket on each playground and
furnishes current for the public address system, record play-
er, and lighting system. The children are organized into
crews, some having the responsibilities of stage property,
scenery, some serving as electricians, or as sound effects,
technicians, script readers, prompters, and directors. As
many as twelve or fifteen work on each presentation, with
everyone having a chance to present his own marionette as
well as to serve in other capacities.

The project has served a dual purpose. It is an advanced
craft giving children the opportunity to use their own ideas
in the creation of an object in which they can express their
own feelings, and it has served as an excellent dramatic out-
let. In addition to its playground performances, the show
wagon has performed for the Shawnee County Association
for Retarded Children’s Playground, the Topeka State Hos-
pital, and Washburn University students. Fifty-three boys
and 152 girls have taken an active part in the project during
the summer. Forty-eight performances were given, witnessed
by over 6,000 spectators.

Marionette classes again resumed work with the opening
of the craft shop in the fall, with shows given throughout
the fall and winter upon invitation and wherever possible.-

175

May Day Walden

 

 

The Honolulu playground dragon is poised for its dance, in which head
rears and tosses, body undulates. The leader holds a lance to tease him.

 

Dragon’s head with dancer peering
through the creature’s open jaws.

HOW TO DO IT!

Dragons can be fun! That is what a group of playground
children in Honolulu, Hawaii, discovered during the past
summer. What they did can be done also by any group of
children anywhere in the United States.

Before one can play with a dragon, one must have a
dragon, and the only way to have such a creature in this or ,
any age is to make one.

The children of Honolulu’s Petrie Playground decided
that dragon-making would be an appropriate activity in
their summer fun program which had for its theme, “A Visit
To The Orient.” They were going to “visit” such countries
as China, Japan, Korea, Thailand, and the Philippines by

learning some of the songs, dances, and stories of those
lands.

The dragon figures prominently in the literature and festi-
vals of China. 0f fiery .mien, he is actually a benevolent
character to the Chinese people because he drives away the
evil spirits. Therefore, he always appears on festive oc— I
casions, a symbol of good omen, happiness, and gaiety. His 1
dance is wondrous to behold, as spewing 'fire (firecrackers),

 

 

This is h?” the dragon looks from underneath_notc MRS. WALDEN is information specialist, Honolulu Board of
chicken-Wire frame {or the hcad,ropc outlining the body. Pablic Parks and Recreation.
176

RECREATION

 

he rears and tosses his magnificent head while his long body
humps and gyrates. '

The dance of the dragon requires the cooperative efforts
of five to a dozen or more persons, depending upon its size.
One person is needed to lift and toss the head while at least
three are needed to operate the body. Another performer
plays the role of the leader who prances along in front of the
dragon egging him on to greater activity. The clanging of
cymbals usually accompanies the dance.

In making the dragon, the children first fashioned a frame
out of chicken wire for his head. They then molded papier-
maché over the wire foundation to make the lips, nose, and
eyes, and to give form to the head. Exactly what the head
would look like depends upon the imagination and skill of
the creators. After the papier-maché has dried, bright poster
paint was applied. Balls of colored yarn also were used to
decorate the head.

The lower jaw was formed by attaching a separate wire
to the head. A strip of red cloth was pulled in from the wire
to form the inside of the mouth. Multi-colored yarn strung
from the wire represented the beard.

The body consisted of a strip of unbleached muslin, about
three feet wide and twelve feet long, edged with tape. It
was decorated with patches of colored material. It may also
be painted. Legs and feet of the dragon are supplied by the
dancers, usually boys wearing red sashes around their waists
and bands of similar material around their ankles.

When the Honolulu youngsters’ dragon was finished, he
was much in demand for appearances. He starred in a
parade through the city presented by the Honolulu Board
of Public Parks and Recreation as a feature of Parks and
Recreation Week. He also appeared on television and ca-
vorted at Petrie Playground’s summer fun finale.

 

, ..: i x

is painted.

   

it,  -_.  n...

After the head and body are formed, the dragobn

APRIL 1956

    

7764:; Day —-—
When I Was Only Six Years Old

Hazel Streeter Davenport

May Day will always be an enchanted day for me becaus
of one spring spent in the little town of Orange, in th
western part of the state, where I visited grandmother an:
cousins when I was six years old. Coming from the city 0
New York for a long visit for the first time in a small countr
Bwnghere was much to marvel at—but best of all was Ma

ay.

All afternoon the kitchen with its big table became a bus
place as grandmother, aunt and cousins gathered aroun
to make May baskets. Rolls of pink, blue, yellow, and gree
crepe paper filled the table. Scissors, paste, cardboard an

’ wire completed the equipment. And the air was filled wit

the aroma of bubbling fudge on the wood stove. On th
window [sill was a pitcher filled with flowers and sprin
blossoms.

This process of making a May basket Was not a hurry-u
affair. First a pattern was drawn with ruler and pencil 0
firm white cardboard, then cut, folded, and pasted into
box. Then began the fringing and curling of the prett
colored crepe paper. Everyone worked slowly and carefull
for each one wanted her May basket to be the loveliest i
the neighborhood. Not just one layer or one color was use
but several layers of overlapping fringed paper covered th
little box. Bows or paper flowers were added and more crep
paper braided and attached for a handle. Some were trul

works of art.
* $ *

The fudge was cooled and cut and there were both kinds, choc:
late and divinity, to put into the basket. At the last minute fres
flowers were tucked into the corners or attached to the handle:

il 1| 1|

May baskets were usually hung right after supper in th
dim fading light. This was before daylight saving time an!
the light began to dwindle right after supper. The air 0
that May night was filled with fragrance of the first flower
and damp earth only lately wet with April showers. Int
this misty sweet world we clashed with the filled May basketg
Shakin and breathing fast, we left the basket on doorkno.
or doorstep, pulled the old-fashioned jingle bell and scam

pered off.

We only hung one or two baskets. Things weren’t don
on a wholesale scale as youngsters do them today. As I re
member, we each made one, two or at most three baskets
one for a favorite girl pal, one for the nicest little boy 6:
the street, and one for grandma or a favorite aunt.

Having deposited our basket and gotten safely away, w
waited in the hall, near our own door, with mountlng BXCltE

ment for a return basket.
* * *

And, 0 yes, if you were a little girl, you were supposed to catcl
and kiss the little boy who left the May basket. It was amazin
how fleet the little girls’ legs became and how suddenly slow an.
clumsy were the boys who had chased each other all afternoor

Very few were ever really kissed, but they were grabbed an:
held as the captured male shouted, “Let me go,” and his fair capto

giggled excnedly. * * *

And then, after a run across the field to the house, weru
ever flowers as pretty, and did candy ever taste as sweet a

that in your first May basket? I

Reprinted with permission, from the Boston Sunday Globe, May ]
1955.

17‘

 

MA TERIALS NEEDED

Plas’rei end—0r anyoz/c/ag- in colors;
fer-re to #a, green, grey, ye//ow.

Transparen’r plasi'ic boxes-Shells ~
an assor’rmeni’ of Rocks ,Moss,
Ferns ,Twiqs, eifz.

  
  
 

 

P/as/e/ena covering

i
A base of box. Cover
MET/{00 ' é.

     

 

, 1'
To make 0. :2 er wei hi1

 

i. Cover inside base of small Transpareni' pids’ric box{cheese box) with piasi’eiena.
Use dreamqreq and iter com colors Ira: give +he effec’rof ground.

2. Place a rock and a had) pebbles ini‘he clog base.
772a rock snow/d be heavy enough /o 9/249 neededwel'g/rf.’

3. Add mossjernsfwiqs ,e'lf it) make an mferesi’inq

na’ruroi arrangement
Moh'Beswe no objecf' 11$ fol/er Mon Ins/{cafe ’7er ofbox.

4.Piace cover on box.
To make a ‘i'errdrium ford/Table or sheii’.

 

 

i. Cover inside area ofo. iarqe she” wi’th plas‘i'elend.

, Use. one or more colors. Maia.- 5aacer3, 7 h and 9/625: cover: can also be used.
2. Using smail shelis,pebbies,sfones,4@iqs,

        
   

moss, ferns and am; i’inq pian+ life 3’: _‘ 
dual labia arrange ’rhem in an l  i C/qu'nslb’? she/A
ini’ereshnq nai'uroi 3(2qu \  ,5

 

-* Mae/n9 rock-7,
mas, rife-A's, pebb/e5,efé. In c/ay éase. .

Wofé: When Joke/1'59 yo ur ma/ena/ not/e Jame J5”, some median in bevy/7f
and some snort 75m arrange Mom .so Mai“ ‘fney w/V/yx're a. fee/2n? of raw/2m.

on i‘ne ciag base.

17:: RECREATION

 

A Playground
“Live Report” '

Anna S. Pherigo

No written report, no matter how well-organized, or how attractive, can
give others the real “feel” of what recreation has meant to the participants.
Only the actual sight of a child with shining eyes watching the puppet show,
or of teen-agers crouched over homeplate, or senior citizens intent over a
game of horseshoes, can warm the heart as well as inform the mind. Per-
haps a “live report,” such as this one, can add that glow which no written
words can accomplish. The old adage “seeing is believing” has meant more
than that, sometimes seeing is understanding.

PREPARATION of reports is probably
looked upon by many recreation
workers with great reluctance. If other
workers are anything like us in Lexing-
ton, Kentucky, they return from fall va-
cations only to be met with the task of
making a summer playground report to
their board and other interested pa-
trons.9.,We believe that we have discov-
ered a solution to this time-consuming
duty, one done easily and interestingly.
During the final week of our play-
ground season we held what we termed
a “live report,” depicting the highlights
of our summer activities in display
fashion. The naturalness of the play-
ground atmosphere was arranged in our
downtown park, with the idea of giving
an over-all picture of the many events
which took place.

Each of our seasonal playground di-
rectors and the members of our staff
took the responsibility for a different
demonstration. Large cardboard plac-
ards were made for each activity, giv-
ing the attendance, number of partici-
pants, teams, spectators, and other in-
formation by way of vital statistics.
These cards were so made that we can
use them again by simply changing the
figures and adding the new activities.

The announcement of this event, at
the beginning of our season, kept our
directors wondering all summer just
what it would be like, and even stimu-
lated something worthy of reporting.

As the season progressed, champions

MISS PHERIGO is executive director of
the Lexington, Kentucky, Board 0 f Park

Commissioners.

APRIL 1956

were crowned and winners judged.
These top performers were selected to
demonstrate the event in which they'
excelled.

When the time came, board members,
city oHicials, news photographers, and
interested citizens were escorted on a
tour of the downtown park, stopping to
watch the activities in progress. They
were shown many of the more popular,
such as clay modeling, sand modeling,
little girls9 tea parties, little boys’ stag
clubs, softball, baseball, volleyball,
boundball, batball, muggins, mill, box

 

“Last summer, our summer play-
ground directors chose for their motto,
for the year: ‘There is no better exer-
cise for the heart than to reach down
and lift somebody up.’ ”

——~Anna Pherigo

 

hockey, paddle tennis, tennis, deck ten-
nis, jacks, horseshoes, picture shows,
swimming, stamp clubs, and so on.

A girl ventriloquist used her little
wooden companion to tell about the
many talent shows and story hours
which took place on our show wagon.
The best decorated bicycle and rider
were on hand to review the bicycle der-
bies. Our annual stick-horse show was
re-enacted even to the “call to the
colors” by the trumpeter and the ex-
planation and demonstration by the
grand champions.

Viewers were entertained by a group
of puppeteers who gave their- version
of The Three Bears, and one of our stu-
dents of drama gave a vivid recitation

from the play The Devil and Daniel
Webster.

     

 

Annual stick-horse show was re-enacted
by three- and five-gaited champions.

‘f‘

The bathing beauty king and queen
reigned over the festivities at the pool
as they had during the annual swim
meet. They were chosen from the win-
ners of our contests held on each play-
ground during “Splash Week.” Their
rule was short-lived, however, owing to
their age of two years.

We were pleased with the outcome of
our report, and feel that those in at-
tendance have a much better idea of
what we do during the summer months.
By way of a follow-up, the highlights
on each playground and a summary of
our report were sent to all our friends
who were unable to be with us.

If you would like to do something
similar for your own report, remember:
Keep it simple and as near like the
actual program as possible. It was easy
and it was fun. I

Dress-up for tea parties includes wearing
mother’s clothes, high heels and earrings...

 er'rLz-z amt; warm-rm imm-
" on n PLAYGR a “is ’

7L3 l’Aii’l‘UIh’
l2$Hi .\'!“£‘l-IN!HID .

nub,» ,. ,

 

o.  [ 1‘;

Weekly dances for teen set are informals, with records
for music; but special occasion parties call for dress-up
and live music as at this Yule party of Atta Steppers.

The refreshment table manifests formality of club’s
holiday season party. Judy Cheesman, elected queen
to preside over dance’s gala festivities, cuts eake.

 

T een-agers in “Good Standing”

.\

TEEN-AGERS in Portland, Oregon, are
going for the dance club idea with
all-out enthusiasm, and so are the recre-
ation supervisors at park bureau Oper-
ated community centers about the city.
Something very pleasant is happening
for the teen age girls and boys and for
the community center supervisors.
Membership, or privilege cards, in-
dicating a member in good standing in
one of the dance clubs, are displayed
with the pride which a member of an
exclusive social club might feel. A mem-
her in good standing has a dignified
place in his social scheme of things and
assumes responsibility for conduct be-
coming such. Community center super-
visors find that the youngsters are a self-
governing group and can thus relieve
them of the burden of acting as “watch
dogs” at the center.

Membership cards are the trick that
is, too, turning the weekly shuffles of
not so long ago—casually planned and
casually attendedwinto something with
social grace and significance for the
coke set. “J cans” and “bucks” are less

MISS STRODE is director of publicity for
the Bureau of Parks and Public Recrea-
tion, Portland, Oregon.

180

M

Membership

.caizds

SOC] lgeiionf Merit comms e
M

in evidence. The girls and boys are
slicking up and the teen dances are tak-
ing on social club or private party airs.

Admission to dances is by card only,
but membership in a dance club is Open
to anyone who wishes to join. Anybody
may buy a dance card for the price of
“dues,” usually twenty-five cents; but
to hold a membership card, the teen-
ager’s behavior at the dances must be
in the “good standing” status. To lose
grace with the membership committee
is to forfeit the membership card, and
it is not restored until behavior again
meets approval of the committee.

Each dance club selects a member-
ship committee of students with an
adult advisor or advisors and this group
acts as program-planning group as well
as a “board of control.” A committee
of twenty, including a center director
and a group of parents sitting in at
meetings of the group or acting as chap-

erones on party nights, is selected at one
park-bureau center.

Another community center has a teen
council that plans its own dances and
acts as floor committee for parties of
the sub-teen groups. Dances for differ-

ent age groups are planned at another
center, each group having its own steer-

Elmtheat ick in Portland, Oregon.

ect.

Ruth Erode

Privilege cards are
bought at a nominal price, set to cover

ing committee.

costs of refreshments, music, and dec-
orations. Age limits vary with diiierent
clubs. Usually the dance clubs are for
girls and boys of the seventh and eighth
through high-school grades. ‘

The dance club and membership card
ideas are not entirely a recent thing in
Portland’s public recreation program-
ing. A similar plan was introduced by
the Neetega Club (teen-age spelled
backwards) which has functioned as an
important social group at one of the
park-bureau-directed community cen-
ters for over a decade, the club mem-
bershipvarying, of course, through the
years. The dancing club, for seventh
and eighth graders and for students in
the first two years of high school, has a
membership fee of fifty cents per season.
A fine of five cents, levied on lost mem-
bership cards, adds to the “kitty.”

Record music is the rule except for
special occasions when live music fur-
nished by a high school band or the
community center band does the play-
ing. Occasionally it is necessary to
make a small additional charge for spe-
cial parties if the kitty does not provide
enough funds to cover exPenses.

RECREATION

l—‘-'— I I-

f

Special parties have themes, and al-
though the decorations are fashioned by
the youngsters they are, nevertheless,
effective. An international theme, with
various countries inspiring the decor,
has been giving a, gala look this past
winter to parties planned by one of the
flourishing teen dance clubs. France
was represented in “Moulin Rouge
Night,” and decorations had the Ham-
boyant flavor of a Lautrec poster.
Checked table cloths covered small
tables set up around a dance area, and
a floor show planned and staged by boys
of the dance committee added its own
fillip to the fun. About two hundred and
fifty girls and boys from a wide circle

in the neighboring communities at-
tended this party.

The club’s “Snowflake Ball” and the
“Silver Bells” holiday parties at this
and at another park-bureau center drew
attendance of over three hundred teen-
ers. Invitations emphasized the impor-
tance of these parties and the election
and crowning of a king and queen to
preside over festivities added pomp and
ceremony to the holiday-season events.

So effective has the privilege-card
system become that almost all park-
bureau sponsored teen dances now oper-
ate on the plan, and it is being used ef-
fectively in other activities where “hid-
den” control is desired. Serious boxing

instructions at one park-bureau center
are on a club membership basis. This
permits check on the physical capabili-
ties of the boxer and a record on each
club member. Membership in the box-
ing club'carries with it a certain pres-
tige, responsibilities, serious training,
and obedience to training rules.

The moral to the story of teen dance
clubs and membership cards is‘obvious.
A member “in good standing” takes
pride in that status. This is evidenced
in the remarkably few instances of criti-
cism of conduct at a teen dance and of
forfeited cards. Social grace commands
respect. I

 

Uranium Hunt

IT APPEARS as though the desire for wealth and adventure

is inherent in boys as well as the adult man. With read-
ing material stressing the “get rich quick by discovering
uranium” subject, it was inevitable that the boys at Erie
YMCA too, would want to become active in the trend of our

generation.

A chance conversation among the boys at the “Y” one
day was overheard by one of the “Y” leaders. He became
aware of the program possibilities of a uranium hunt and
started the wheels rolling. Details were worked out and the
hunt was scheduled as a Thursday Vacation Club activity.

Fortunately a part-time employee of the Erie YMCA, An-
drew Peterson, lived on a farm that had uranium possibili-
ties. Andy readily entered into the spirit of the hunt and
offered the use of his premises for the adventure. A radio
and television concern willingly offered the group the use

of a real Geiger counter.

ROBERT ZECH is associate boys’ secretary and JOHN C. GIL-
LESPIE is a youth worker at the Young M en’s Christian As-

sociation, in. Erie, Pennsylvania.

APRIL 1956

 

Young uranium prOSpectors line up with their “finds”-——

Robert Zech and John Gillespie

On the big day, the young prospectors assembled at the
YMCA with pick axes, shovels, packs, and an ample supply
of cold pop and lunches. Conspicious among the equipment

were sacks which the boys said were to be used to carry their
“finds” from the fields.

Forty-two strong entered the “Y” bus. for the unexplored

fields of Andy’s farm. Spirits were high and plans for spend-
ing the wealth centered around the building of swimming
pools with hamburger stands, purchase of ponies, dogs,
rifies, bicycles, and so on.

Bernie Askins, a Y-Aide was chosen as the chief assayer
of the expedition. He was the one who handled the Geiger
counter and made checks on all radioactive material found.

It was soon evident that the competition for wealth
aroused the baser instincts of the boys and a number of
voices were raised in dissent of one another’s encroachment

upon claims. The end of the hunt found forty-two tired,
hungry, sunburned boys going home feeling that they, too,

had eXperienced a part in the great Atomic Age. Who knows
but that a future Oppenheimer or Fermi may have launched

his career on this day at the “Y.”

 

 

As the chief assayer checks them with a Geiger counter.

181

SWIMMING POOL
Operation ,
and Maintenance

( Continued from March)

Pointers from workshops throughout the
country for pool and beach operators.

Care and Operation of Chlorinating Equipment

The widespread use of chlorinating equipment at pools
and the importance of exercising care in its operation, give
special significance to the following lecture given at the 1953
Florida Public Health Engineering Conference by Alvin R.
Murphy. Jr.. district engineer for Wallace & Tiernan of
Winter Haven, Florida:

The subject here assigned will be interpreted in its broad
meaning to cover hypochlorinators as well as chlorinators,
since hypo units are extensively used on small pools as well
as some medium-sized ones. ‘

Chlorinators

The only mechanical function of a chlorinator is to meas-
ure chlorine gas from a cylinder, mix it with a minor flow of
water and apply the resulting concentrated chlorine solution
to the main flow of water being introduced into the pool.

To operate the chlorinator satisfactorily, we should under-
stand something about this chlorine gas. It comes to us
as a compressed gas (liquid) in a steel cylinder—from which
it might be assumed that it is non-corrosive. This is true,
but only when it is absolutely dry, as delivered in its con-
tainer. When chlorine gas is moistened, even with the mois-
ture in the air, it is extremely corrosive. It can then be
handled only by certain materials. The most common ma-
terials that are resistant to wet chlorine gas or chlorine
solution are hard rubber, glass, silver, and certain ceramic
materials. These are the materials from which the working
parts of most chlorinators are constructed. More recently
such new materials as duriron, polyethylene, saran, and
others are being used.

Therefore, the most important point in the operation of
any chlorinator is to prevent chlorine leaks and, if leaks
occur, to fix them immediately. Do not put it off and, if you
do not have time to fix it now, shut the machine down until
you do. There is no known case of a chlorine leak absorbing
itself. In fact, it does just the opposite (a small leak becomes
a big one in a very short time) since the small leak, com-
hined with moisture in the air, works in from outside rapidly.

Where do these leaks most commonly occur and what can
we do to prevent them? The leak must occur somewhere
between the cylinder and the point where the gas enters the
vacuum portion of the chlorinator because that is the only
part that is under internal pressure. Elsewhere the leak
1 old he air leaking inward since the chlorinator is operat-

‘
Al-

 

 

A chlorinator requires services of a com-
petent operator for effective use. Check
daily with ammonia for chlorine leakages.
This cannot be emphasized too strongly.

ing under a partial vacuum. So, at most, there are only a
few packing glands and gasket connections to watch. Check
daily with ammonia for chlorine leaks and if a packing gland
should be tightened or a gasket changed—do it immedi-
ately. Use a new lead gasket with each chlorine tank ex-
change. They cost only a few cents and may save much
trouble and inconvenience later.

It may seem that too much time has been spent on this
problem of chlorine leaks—but it cannot be emphasized too
strongly. Too many machines, and surrounding equipment
as well, have been injured, or at least made to look shoddy,
by laxness in attention to this all-important-point.

Now, as to the chlorinator itself. The chlorine gas is first
metered at a predetermined rate set up by the operator, then
pulled into the injector by suction, combined with make-up
water and discharged to the point of application. All pool
chlorinators operate by water pressure, which creates the
suction in the injector.

First of all, the injector creates its suction by using high-
pressure water going into a point where pressure is con-
siderably less. So anything that interferes with this differ-
ential water pressure, or the transmission of the suction it
creates will cause malfunctioning of the machine.

1. Some of the common interferences in differential water
pressure:

0. Operating water pressure too low.

I). Clogged screens in water line.

c. Clogged or dirty injector throat.

(I. Clogged or crimped chlorine solution discharge hose
creating excessive back pressure.

(2. Crimped silver solution tube at point of application
due to attempt to close corporation cock without first
withdrawing solution tube.

1. Excessive back pressure in the line itself at the point
of application.

2. Some of the common interferences in transmission of
suction:

RECREATION

 

a. Clogged or dirty injector suction parts.

1). Bad gaskets at top 'or bottom of injector.

c. Leaking (air) gaskets on injector suction tubes.

d. Hole in orifice meter Wholly or partially clogged.

e. 'Insufiicient make-up water to seal off suction chamber.

Other items in connection with care of operation that
should be checked:

1. Be sure air-relief hose to outside atmosphere is not
trapped. (The end of this hose is a favorite spot for mud
daubers to operate—check the end frequently or guard it
with a piece of screen.)

2. If atmospheric conditions cause sweating, keep inside
of chlorinator pedestal dry with large light bulb.

3. For their protection, coat bright. metal parts with thin
film of white Vaseline.

4. In shutting down chlorinator, first turn off gas and do
not shut off operating water until chlorine pressure gauge
reaches zero it does not harm to allow the auxiliary, or
tray water supply, to continue to run during overnight shut-
down periods) .

5. If yours is a seasonal pool and you are shutting down
until next season, be sure chlorine gas inlet ports are

plugged; if freezing weather is expected, drain all water
from the unit.

6. Check daily for chlorine leaks.

H ypochlori nato rs

These, for the most part, are electrically operated solution
pumps using chlorine in the form of a sodium hypochlorite
solution, either supplied commercially or prepared by the
operator from one of the high-test hypochlorite powders.

Commercially' prepared hypochorite solutions generally
run about ten per cent available chlorine. This solution
should be diluted; we recommend about one per cent,
though some use it stronger. With the stronger concentra-
tions the excess caustic used in the manufacture will materi-
ally shorten the life of the diaphragm and other rubber parts.

If the hypochlorite solution is prepared from the powder,
sufficient settling time must be allowed before syphoning off
the supernatant liquid. If not, the lime particles tend to
prevent good seating of the poppet valves. These, with their
seats, should be frequently cleaned with a dilute solution
of hydrochloric acid. The same applies to the sight glasses.

And, in any case, if hypochlorite is applied to a hard or
semi-hard water, there will be a tendency for a hard deposit
to form in the very end of the solution tube at the applica-
tion point. This necessitates frequent cleanings. Since there
are mechanically moving parts in this equipment, instruc-
tions as to frequency of oiling or lubricating such parts
should be followed.

The following are comments regarding all installations:
0 Do not allow empty chlorine cylinders-to collect; return
them to the manufacturer as soon as they become empty.

0 The point of chlorine application should usually be ahead
of the pump and filtration system. The hydraulics are gen-
erally more favorable there and a chlorine residual going
through sand filters is advantageous. But with diatoma-
ceous earth filters having metallic elements, excessive chlo-
' rine should not be used. Here, a point of application beyond

APRIL 1956

the filters may be indicated. Be sure to shut down chlorin-
ator before shutting off recirculating pump so that a con-
centration of chlorine cannot be built up at the point of ap-
plication which could diffuse back during shutdown.

o If exposed to a mild dose of chlorine, go to open air
and lie flat on your back, with head elevated and shallow
breathing. If eXposure is more severe, consult a physician.

Pool Administration and Operation

The following is from a lecture given at the Metropolitan
Area Swimming Pool Operators’ and Managers’ Short
School at the University of Maryland, by B. L. Williams,
supervisory general engineer with the United States Corps of
Engineers:

Poor Operation or indifferent supervision will often upset
the values of the best designed pools. On the other hand,
operators who are on their toes and constantly strive to
make their pool second to none in maintaining standards
will often do much to offset the defects of otherwise poorly
designed pools.

One, and only one, person should be designated the man-
ager, the “boss of operations” or whatever you might wish
to call him. Hold him strictly accountable for the conduct
of all employees at the pool and to see that work and main-
tenance schedules are adhered to. He in turn is entitled
to know to whom he reports. He should take his orders from
only one person connected with the community pool.

Maintenance Schedules

_Certain operational things must be done on a daily basis
and at certain times during the day. Other Operational
things may require checking once a week or once a month.
Exclusive of daily tests which must be made, the other items
which must be accomplished daily are as follows:

1. Hosing down deck area.

2. Vacuum cleaning pool.

3. Cleaning, hosing down and disinfecting bathhouse in-
cluding toilets and showers.

4. Equipment—~check pump; filters; chlorinator; alum
and soda ash; diving boards; underwater lights; life-saving
equipment, such as gas masks, respirators, first aid kit,
stretchers, blankets.

5. Supplies—check chemicals such as soda ash, alum,
chlorine, and disinfectants; toilet paper and towels.

Daily records should be kept which will show:

1. That the work outlined above has been accomplished.

2. The number of persons admitted to the pool area and
the number of persons actually in the pool at intervals
throughout the day.

3. The temperature of water entering and leaving pool.

4. The temperature of the air in two shaded locations
protected from air currents.

5. The taste of the water. Record any perceptible taste.

6. The odor, if any, of the water.

7. The clarity of the water. A six-incli-diameter black
spot on the deep point of the bottom should be visible from
any point on the surface up to thirty feet away.

8. Daily tests for residual chlorine and alkalinity (PH).
These tests should be made at least once every two hours. I

183

for the

Administrator

NOTES .

Denver’s Annexation Policy Yields Recreation Areas

The city of Denver has adopted what is known locally as
the “eight per cent public site policy” to protect the city’s
interest in proposals for the annexation of adjoining sub-
divisions. The policy was adopted because it was shown by
experience that many essential facilities, including parks
and sites for schools, were not included in subdivision plans,
but that they were demanded immediately upon annexation.

One of the provisions in the annexation ordinance sub-
mitted by the planning office and passed by the city council
provides “at least eight per cent of the area to be annexed
(or a cash equivalent) is conveyed to the City of Denver—
this land or cash to be used to provide for schools, parks,
fire stations, or other public sites.”

During the year following the adoption of this policy, the
city annexed over 1,200 acres of sites for development, of
which approximately 100 acres were turned over to the city
for public sites. The equivalent value of this land is approxi-
mately $300,000.

In the case of one 660-acre area, 18.5 acres were allocated
for a park, an adjoining 12 acres for a junior high school
and 8 acres for an elementary school. In another 590-acre
tract of partially developed residential area, suitable land
for public sites was not available, but a total of 50 acres in
two parcels abutting the annexation area was selected in
conference with the city, acquired and donated by the de-
velopers for park and school purposes. In two other small
annexations the developers paid the city an amount in lieu
of the required land donation.

In an article describing the plan, in the October 1954
issue of The American City, Mr. George Nez, assistant di-
rector of planning in Denver, points out that, whereas the
formula seems to work fairly well in the case of vacant-land
annexation, in a partly developed area the numerous small
preperty owners are reluctant to pay the area’s eight per
cent cash donation equivalent to public land required by the
policy. He suggests as a possible substitute application of
a lien, which would be payable to the city as a city tax over
a period of years after annexation of the property.

Suhdividers Pay for Schools

Public Management, in a recent issue, reported that “Park
Ridge, Illinois (21,879), has adopted a subdivision ordi-
nance which requires subdividers to pay the city $300 for
each lot for school facilities. The money is placed in a spe-
cial fund where it is held for five years or until improve-
ments are made. If the school district constructs a new
building or makes an addition to a building, either in the
subdivision or within three-fourths of a mile from it, the
money held by the city is turned over to the school district
upon completion of the construction. If the school district
does not make any improvements within five years, the city
will refund the money to the suhdivider or his assignee.”

184

Subdivision Control in West Bend, Wisconsin

The April, 1955 issue of The Municipality contained an

article describing the platting requirements in the city of
West Bend. It included the following statement with refer-

ence to the setting aside of land for open space:

Each preliminary plat must show on it an area which is to be dedi-
cated for public use. This area must be equal to five per cent of the
net area of the subdivision exclusive of streets and alleys. This dedi-
cation is not required, however, when the dedicated area would
amount to less than half an acre. It occasionally happens that the
landowner is in possession of additional land in the vicinity of his pro-
posed subdivision which he considers more suitable for public use
than the area he is platting. If the plan commission is in agreement
with this idea the dedication of public land in the subdivision is
waived and the subdivider is required to enter into an agreement with
the city, stating that he will dedicate to the public at a later date this
more suitable land in an am0unt equal to live per cent of the plat.
West Bend has two such agreements in effect at the present time. This
scheme is working to the advantage of the subdivider, who does not
want to lose any of his most valuable building lots, and to the advan-
tage of the city, which will eventually acquire valuable additions to

its park system.

Subdivision Regulation Legality

The April 1955 issue of Popular Government" contains an
article entitled “Legal Status of Subdivision Regulation”
with the following section relating to requirements that the
deve10per dedicate sites for public facilities:

, H. B. 579 does not authorize a municipality to require the developer
to dedicate park and school sites and space for other public facilities.
Many enabling acts do. There is a split among the states as to whether
such requirements are valid.

The New York courts in In re Lake Secor Deyelopment Co., 141
Misc. 913, 252 N.Y. Supp. 809 (1931) , aff’d without opinion, 235 App.
Div. 627, 255 N.Y. Supp. 853 (1932), held that a planning board might

refuse to approve a plat because of the developer’s failure to dedicate

park land. In F ortson Investment Co. v. Oklahoma City, 179 Okla-
homa 4-73, 66 P. 2d 96 (1937), the developer deeded five per cent of

his land for public purposes, in accordance with subdivision regula-
tions, and subsequently brought an action to rescind the deed. The
court refused to do so. In Vincente Zayas Pizarrao v. Paerto Rico
Planning, Urbanizing and Zoning Board, 69 Puerto Rico 27 (1948),
the c0urt held that a developer could be required to reserve land for
recreational purposes.

On the other hand, in An Appeal from an Ordinance of Lower M ore-
head Township, Pa. Court of Quarter Sessions, Montgomery County
(1950) (unreported), the court held that such a requirement
amounted to an unconstitutional taking of property. A similar de-
cision, relating to reservation under an “oiiicial map” ordinance, was

handed down in Miller v. Beaver Falls, 368 Pa. 189, 82 A. 2d 34
(1951).

Report Shows Cooperation

One of the functions of the National Capital. Park and
Planning Commission is cooperation with developers of
subdivisions in the Maryland-Washington Metropolitan Dis-
trict. Two subdivision plans are shown in its 1954 report.
In one of these— a 450-acre tract— 53 acres are reserved
for parks through the cooperation of the developer and his
consultants. In another—~a 177-acre tract— 16 acres of
parks were reserved in the same manner.

"' Issued by the Institute of Government at the University of North
Carolina.

RECREATION

 

 

NASMUCH as the game of softball is very popular with many
boys and girls, it places a great responsibility upon the

recreation teacher for the safety of the players, spectators,
and other playground participants during the progress of
a game. The following precautions are, therefore, set up
as a guide to the leader in charge:

1. Whenever a softball game is scheduled, restrict. the
game to boys or girls of similar ages.

2. Before each scheduled game, clear the softball area of
all “small children.

3. Carefully mark your diamond, designating danger
zones beyond which all players and spectators must stand.

4. Before game time, instruct players of the safety rules
in effect at your playground.

5. Select and train a corps of competent older youth to
officiate and assist in enforcing the safety rules.

6. Supervise the game often.

7. If an infringement of the rules is noticeable, stop the
game and straighten out the matter.

8. Where the courts of two different sports overlap, never
permit both activities to be played at the same time. The
area should be used for one sport or the other, but not for

both.

The following is standard practice for all playgrounds in
designating danger zones around homeplate:

1. Determine the distance to be considered as the danger
zone around homeplate.

2. On each side of the batter’s box, paint the third fence
post for a distance of about six to eight feet from the ground.

3. Paint the words “Danger Zone” on the front of the
concrete ledge which lines the field at the base of the fence
in the same paint, and about midway between the posts and
the corner of the fence in back of homeplate. The top edge
of the ledge may also be painted for further emphasis.

4. It is to be understood that this area is to be kept clear
while the batter is “up.” This includes players and/ or
spectators who are to remain beyond the painted posts. A

Reprinted from Safety on Our Playgrounds, published by, and avail-
able from, the Recreation Department, Board of Education, Newark 2,
New Jersey; 3.35 each, three for $1.00.

APRIL 1956

penalty—for example, a called “out” for a violation—may
act as a deterrent to those who enter the restricted area.

Inter-Playground Competition

As a general policy, the recreation department has mini-
mized the emphasis on inter-playground competition. Con-
current with this point of view, the recent national study by
the American Association of Health, Physical Education and
Recreation, the National Recreation Association, the Ele-
mentary Principals’ Department of the National Education
Association, the Society of State Directors of Health, Physi-
cal Education and Recreation, and the National Council of
State Consultants in Elementary Education reveals:

“Top priority should be given to a broad and varied pro-
gram of voluntary informal recreation for children of all
ages, and an interesting extensive program of intramurals
for boys and girls,in the upper elementary grades and above,
within each individual school or in the neighborhood recrea-
tion center.” ' '

From the past experience of the recreation department,
competition on a limited invitational basis can be whole-
some, provided:

1. Pre-competition preparation is given in the following:

a. Successful relationship between host and visiting
teams.

I). Sportsmanship, fair play, and proper social conduct.

6. Proper regard for winning and losing.

(1. Proper instructions in the rules and regulations of
the game.

e. Recognition of the recreational value of the activity.

2. Adequate supervision and competent ochiating are
provided.

3. Consideration is given to chronological age groupings.

4. Teams are uniformly attired and properly equipped.

5. Adequate and safe provisions are provided for specta-
tors.

Tensions are ever present in any form of competition.“
Proper understanding of basic human relationships, com-
mon sense, good judgment, and guidance are prerequisites
for proper planning and conduct of competitive activities.-

185

I

P E B S 0 N N E L

Personnel Review—1955

The year just passed was, in many
respects, one of the most encouraging
since World War II. The number of
positions handled by the National Rec-
reation Association Personnel Service
was higher, interviews and new regis-
trations inpreased, more executive posi-
tions were filled, in-service training op-
portunities improved, college programs
eXpanded, salaries were higher, new
personnel material was developed, and
special projects moved along rapidly.

There was a significant gain in the
number of placements for the position
of superintendent of recreation. These
were filled in different states, including
all the eight field districts—the Great
Lakes and Middle Atlantic Districts re-
porting the largest number. The median
salary for recreation executives placed
this past year was $5,000; but not many

good prospects are available at that
figure.

Over half of the executive prospects,
in all-the districts on our available list
at the close of the year, would not con-
sider positions offering a starting salary
of less than 355,500—435,999. On the
Pacific Coast the minimum salary which
will be considered is usually in the
$6,000—S6,999 bracket. In general.
the minimum salary requirements of
executive prospects east of the Missis-
sippi have been raised $1,000 to $1,500
since December 1953 and 8500 since
December 1954. Most of the men on
our present available list, who have had
at least one year of experience, require
a salary of $6,000 or more; and nearly
one in five would not consider any posi-
tions paying less than $7,000. The
minimum recruiting salary for posi-
tions requiring a man executive with
any significant recreation experience
may he said to he in the 335,000-536,000
range.

A large percentage of the executive
positions filled in 1955 were in medium-

iv-

 

 

‘. k _..n.___m

Ma. SUTlll-ZH M w is director of the UM
Recreation Personnel Service.

186

and small-size communities. For in-

. stance, only 10 per cent of the executive

placements were in cities of 50,000 pop-
ulation and over; 89 per cent were in
cities under 50,000; 80 per cent under
25,000; 58 per cent under 15,000 and
50 per cent of the placements were in
still smaller towns, of 10,000 population

New NRA free materials
which are being used widely by local

and under.

officials include: The Essentials of a
Good Recreation Department and How
to Attract Good Candidates for Recrea-
tion Positions.

A high turnover of personnel con-
tinues to be a problem and further em-
phasizes the need for higher salaries,
better working conditions, improved
organizational structure, better admin-
istration of personnel, and more train-
ing and staff development activities.
More professional students are entering
the field, and local, state, and national
groups are becoming increasingly con-
cerned with the identification of profes-
sional personnel—~with studies under
way dealing with civil service, state cer-
tification, and national registration.

Recruiting is still the number-one
problem and many positions remain un-
filled for long periods of time. New re-
cruiting materials have been prepared
and are now available from the Asso-
ciation, without cost in small amounts.
Thousands of copies of the following
free materials have been distributed:
Recreation—A New Profession In a
Changing World; How To Choose The
Right College For Your Career In Rec-
reation; Recreation Leadership With
the Ill And Handicapped; My Job: I
Like It .’,° and the list of colleges and uni-
versities offering major curricula in rec-
reation. The Association’s National
Advisory Committee on Recruitment,
Training and Placement is encouraging
local, state, and district recruiting com-
mittees. Some of these are already

under way and doing effective work.

The Atlanta Conference held in Feb-
ruary 1055 brought together outstand-
ing leaders in the Southern region and

W. C. Sutherland

representatives of federal agencies re-
sponsible for personnel in the South—-
to consider the recommendations con-
tained in the report of the two-year
study of recreation, leadership and train-
ing needs in the South.* The confer-
ence produced a nine-page printed re-
port, and five thousand copies have
been distributed to public officials, urg-
ing programs of action involving rec-
cruiting and professional education.

Reports are now available of studies
of professional education for recreation
leadership. Research reveals a serious
lag in professional education, pointing
out that the professional schools could
increase production four or five times
without danger of creating a harmful
surplus of personnel in the immediate
years ahead. Although new curricula
have been established during the past
year, there are still some states and
some districts without adequate profes-
sional education programs. On the other
hand, some states may have too many.
Most of these training centers are un-
der staffed and some do not have
enough students to justify the curricu-
lum. A new study, the report of which
is now available, indicates that in addi-
tion to scholarships, fellowships, and as-
sistantships available to all students,
some $40,000 in scholarships are speci-
fically earmarked for recreation stu-
dents.

Major projects announced recently
include a nation-wide internship pro-
gram and a special training institute for
administrators in connection with the
National Recreation Congress. Also, the

major NRA publication, Personnel

Standards in Recreation Leadership, is
being revised and enlarged.

The National Advisory Committee on
Recruitment, Training and Placement
is also working on long-range programs
in broad problem areas. It has plans
under way for dealing with major con-
cerns and many matters pertaining to

personnel policies and practices.

 

* Recreation as a Profession in the South-

ern Region, National Recreation Association.

$3.75.

RECREATION

 

.— -‘p-a..-

.1 APRIL 1956

New Golden Age Club Pin

Designed by representatives
of over 100 Golden Age clubs

'm and used nationally.
Gold _colored metal with
evergreen tree in jewelers’
enamel. Symbolic of long life,

EXACT SIZE strength and perseverance.

The words LOVE, PLAY, LEARN, SERVE

(greatest values of club membership) en-
ameled in black. The border is a laurel
wreath for honor. Safety catch.

Available Only to Authentic Clubs.
50: each, minimum order 10 pins.

22 N. 6th Street
Philadelphia 6, Pa.

James Spencer 5. Co.

Playground Summer Notebook
Ready on or about May 1

$2.50 .
($2.00 to NRA members)

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
8 West Eighth St., New York 11., N.Y.

 

W FOLDING BANQUET TABLES}

     

    

If you are on the board of your school or
church, or an the house or purch_asmg .com-
Inittee of your club or lodge, you Wlll be Inter-
ested in 'llt‘i morlern. Fol Ting PedestaTTBauuuet
Table. W‘E‘I' In“ catalog R: spec-1a] «Tlsr-nunfs.

cormx. Iowa

        
    
  
 
       

I FREE! This Beautiful BIG Illustrated

LEATHERCRAFT CATALOG

 _ Make Leather Purses, Belts, Billfalds
5%.“: J. C. LARSON CO., 820 So. Tripp Ave.
cleDepartment 3, Chicago 24, Illinois

FREE! Big Illustrated Da-lt-Yourselt
METALCRAFT CATALOG

Make Aluminum, Copper, Foil Items

'1. C. LARSON CO., 820 So. Tripp Ave.
Department 5805, Chicago 24, Illinois

ALL AGES ARE FASCINATED

        

   
 

   

  

W5. r u» all mm mm not «In  .,‘

Ancient Atrican-Asian Counting Game, $3
Co-op. Recreation Service, Inc., Delaware, 0.

  
 

 nrnrnt tithtl‘ll
  April 29 - May 5

      

 

When

 

“PLAY SAFE"—BE SURE IT’S A

TLEXI
SWING SEAT

marked "FLEXI"

      
 

   

. ARE
CHAMPION RECREATION EQUIPMENT. INC.
 Standard and Custom Built Playground Equipment
9 o 474 write foruiiiaiiim'd P k m I
.  x . . lg an or , . i
5 OSTRICH

i

._ 33ml .w'W» L . _

\.-.
‘en
'3."
<

NEW AND IMPROVED

RYAN’S H. & R.

DRY LINE MARKERS

BETTER THAN EVER
FOR ALL SEASONAL SPORTS

* Force Feed——
Instant Shutoff—
50 lbs. capacity.

* Easy to fill and
operate.

* No Brushes or
Screens to clog.

SAVES TIME AND

     
    
      

 

 

. . . when it comes to cancer?

Do you bury your head in the sand and
hope it won’t attack you or someone close --
to you? Fight cancer with a check-up to :
protect yourself and a check to help others.

Give to your Unit of the American Cancer 
Society, or mail your gift to CANCER,

go your town’s Postmaster.  MATERIAL
AMERICAN CANCER 500' ETY  I Send to Dept. R for booklet on {our other models
 ,gf l H. a R. MFG. co., LOS ANGELES 34, CALIF,
\llllllllllllllllll Illllllllllll
(2?.

   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    

RUBBER BASED POOL PAINT

with exclusive THIXOTROPIC formula

OCEAN POOL PAINT. . . a truly superior for-

mula that will not blister, fade, or flake 03. For-
mulated especially for swimming pools, it applies
even and smoothly . . . dries quickly to a hard easy

L09

0 EASY TO APPLY

O DRIES QUICKLY TO THE
LIKE FINISH

0 DISCOURAGES ALGEA

I!  til

   

to clean protective finish. Bright and colorful. AND SLIM; GRowm .—
OCEAN POOL PAlNT will glamorize and pro- 0 XELELOIEO=EA?(EISTER, -
tect your pool—prevent algea and slime growth. . COMPLETELY ,,DRIP_ __
EXCLUSIVE THIXOTROPIC FORMULA... LESS" ""
a new discovery of our top research engineers! . EASY To CLEAN _,
No matter how thickly you apply OCEAN POOL Send today for color «—
' r! . h , d I  -
PAINT...IT WILL NOT RUN, DRIP, 0R fhi",§;pf§fj°5cugi _
«SAGHI- POOL: SUPPLY CO. line ._,.
of swrmming pool equip- _,,

For over 73 years, your "mm and S‘”’””“' .-
guarantee of quality has -
been the name r‘ «—
OCEAN POOL SUPPLY (0. IN(., 866 Sixth Avenue, New York I, N. r. :
IlllllIIIlIIIIIIIIIIIlIllIlII\

writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. l8?

{:23

@546 W4

Alfred B. Jensen

 

Reeling in Durham

The University of New Hampshire’s
Durham Reele rs specialize in folk
dances and folk songs. The group, made
up mostly of university students, meets
twice a month in Durham.

A reeler demonstration group travels
about New Hampshire and surrounding
states offering a program of nationality
dances to stimulate interest in this rec-
reation activity. Some members make
authentic costumes; others plan pro-
grams. Others carry on a search into
folklore for dance and song.

New dances and the more intricate
traditional ones are part of every meet-
ing’s program. The first half of each
session is devoted to the easier folk
and square dances. The second half
helps to develop the eXperts.

In March, the reelers and the univer-
sity sponsored the annual New England

 

Couple from Durham Reelers group
dancing the gay “Bavarian Landler.”

Intercollegiate Folk Festival. This event
brings together folk activity groups
from several New England colleges.
The university recreation specialist,
Miss Patricia Olklconen, is faculty ad-
visor for the Durham Reelers.
MR. JENSEN is a member a] the NRA
Recreation Personnel Service Stall.

188

Three Colleges and Air Force Bases
Cooperate for Field Work

Recreation majors from three (101-
leges now can obtain field experience in
United States Air Force service clubs.
The young women sample the oppor—
tunies for a career in air force recrea-
tion service at Eglin, Parks, and Truax
Air Force Bases.

Two participants in the program are
Dorothy Davitte and Sally Roos of-the
University of Wisconsin. They spend a
minimum of five hours each week at the
Truax Service Club, under the super-
vision of Miss Margaret Stearns, serv-
ice club director. Often the time given
is much more than that required for
course credit.

H. C. Hutchins, coordinator of the
recreation curriculum at Wisconsin, re-
ports that the university may expand
the time oflicially allocated to this field
experience.

Florida State University’s recreation
majors intern at Eglin Air Force Base.
In two years of such experience, the air
force authorities and Dr. William J.
Tait, director of the university’s recre-
ation curriculum, have settled on a
block system which they feel offers real
opportunity for learning. Students may

-work in service clubs or in the Depend-

ent Youth Activities Program.

California’s San Jose State College
offers similar field experience in co-
operation with Parks Air Force Base.

Oregon Occurences and Occasions

Active Oregon State College recrea-
tion students and faculty have achieved
recognition recently. Recreation major
Bob Riggert is vice-president of the
OSCAHPER. John White, a junior rec-
reation major, was elected to the Inter-
national News Service All-American
Football team. Professor Percy Mar-
garet Gill became the first woman oflicer
of the Oregon State Recreation Society,
as secretary.

Professor Gill also starred on TV sta-

tion KVAL, Eugene, Oregon, in a spe-
cial program on recreation. Sharing
the camera were August L. Strand, col-
lege president, and Mortimer Morris of

the recreation faculty.

Leadership for Leisure

UCLA Challenge

“Facing the New Leisure” was the
theme of the fourth annual Institute of
Professional Leadership for Leisure
held at the University of California' at
Los Angeles. Ten southern California
agencies and organizations cooperated
with the university’s extension and
physical education departments to spon-
sor the one-day workshop. Director of
the institute was Dr. Stanley R. Gabriel-
seri of the recreation faculty.

Bring Experience to Campus?

Why not bring more recreation exec-
utives and experienced supervisors to
the campus to help recreation majors
prepare realistically for the field? Ro-
bert E. Coady of the Cincinnati, Ohio,
Public Recreation Commission staff
suggests that it is time to make use of
professional leaders more extensively.

“Most executives would be glad to go
for an allotted time for expenses includ-
ing travel,” Mr. Coady points out.
Many professionals would be willing to
devote a day or two—even a week————if
they were asked. He suggests they be
invited by colleges to meet with students
and faculty. Such a plan would enable
colleges to draw on volunteer staff out-
side their immediate communities.

Are you available for such an assign-
ment? Does your curriculum welcome
such volunteers: NRA’s Recreation
Personnel Service offers to serve as a
clearing house for both professionals
and colleges interested in such an ex-
change. Student opinions and sugges-
tions are solicited, too.

San Jose’s Semester Fieldwork

“Community Recreation Field Work,”
a one—semester, fifteen-credit summer
course at San Jose (California) State
College offers a twelve-week field place-
ment plus a three-week review an anal-
ysis period on campus at the semes-
ter’s end. This year, agency supervi-
sors received NRA’s bulletin, Student
Field Experience, during their orienta-
tion conference.

RECREATION

YOUR GROUP WILL DANCE BETTER

' FLY A To THE EXCITING BEAT
CLEAN FLAG OFTHE... 

 
    
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
   
 

   

 

“Let it rise! let it rise, till it meet the
sun in his coming: let the earliest light of
the morning gild it, and the parting day
linger and play on its summit.”

—Daniel Webster

Americans fly the national flag proudly on such holidays
as Memorial Day in May, Flag Day in June, and Independ-
ence Day in July. Actually, according to Public Law 829,

 iii. 4
passed by the 77th Congress, the flag should be displayed I
every day except in inclement weather. There are many
“special” days throughout the year when it is eSpecially
fitting and proper to display it. The rule is to place the blue

field, or union, to the right if Hying vertically, to the left if

 

‘ ‘ ' In the actual dance or as a dramatic ac- Originally designed for
m 0
fly g honzontally At no tune ShOUId the Hag be allowed companiment, the Gretsch Dance Drum MARY WIGMAN.
to touch the ground. lends itself to colorful interpretations of The choice of leading a"-
. modern, classical and. oriental themes. ists and foremost school:
Never dlsplay or store the Hag in such a way as to get it tight and 5,",dy_weighs 23 ounces, has R‘s“

dirty, but if it does become soiled with the dirt and grime 3-ply laminatedlrock maple rim. Innisgléd THE
- - in transparent acquer in natura co or. "
that Hoat through the air, it may be laundered. Fortunately, Head of Specially selected real Skin with  
I

most Hags are washable—being made from cotton sheeting, bright nickel-plated straining hoop and
eight nickel tensroning brackets. In order- MAN 1: sAc'T-u n | N c c o,

cotton bunting, wool, nylon, or a nylon-and-wool blend ing mention )(4145—Price315-00.13051213e Makers offing
called “nylanin.” To preserve those bright, vibrant colors cxtm- musical instruments

-—the red, white, and blue-— wash the Flag carefully. lumb'S-WWl'heud “GNP-"mm .With 3116 for over 69 years
Gretsch Dance Drum smgly or in pairs.

First, use a soft brush, laden with thick soap or detergent order #5250 at $225 caCh’ postage eXtra' 5“ Broadway' Wkly" 11' N' Y"

suds, on soiled edges and spots. Then, squeeze the whole
Hag in a deep tub full of warm water and abundant suds.
Never twist, wring, or rub the fabric against itself. Rinse
well, using cool water at the end, and extract excess moisture.
Next, hang the flag to dry as correctly as you would for dis-
play. Consider yourself lucky that you don’t have to handle
the largest flag of all—it flies over the George Washington
Bridge in New York and requires twenty men to raise it!

When almost dry, press the Hag lightly on the wrong side
with a moderately hot iron using straight strokes parallel to
the stripes. If the stars are appliqued, pad the board with
a towel under the blue field. Fold the Hag loosely and store
it, as required by official regulations of the U. S. Government,
in a place where it can’t be easily torn, soiled, or damaged.
Fly it boastfully clean so that those symbolic colors will
always sparkle in the sunlight.

* It is interesting to note that women have played an im-
portant part in the history of our country’s Hag. Betsy Ross
is well known as the creator of the first Stars and Stripes.
“ ‘Shoot if you must this old gray head, but spare your
country’s Hag,’ she said,” is John Greenleaf Whittier’s tribute
to Barbara F rietchie who proudly Hew the Stars and Stripes
from her window when Stonewall Jackson’s rebel tr00ps
marched through Frederickstown. And Mary Pickersgill

. ATHLETIC BALI-S

So sensationally better are they on
every count—design, construction,
quality, durability and play-ability—
that Rawlings HERCULITE
Rubber-Covered Athletic Balls
have established a new high
standard. They're in a class

by themselves—they're . .

'_f'74e76«e¢t

VOLLEY BALLS

earned  for making the huge thirty-two-  forty- BASKE'BALLS
' foot flag that flew over Fort McHenry during the British soccan anus -~ .7“  7W!»
bombardment of that stronghold—inspiring Francis Scott FOOTBAll-s * - ‘ a .  H ,_

  

Key to write his immortal verse, “The Star SPangled nnwunes seonnue GOODS co. - S'I'. touts a. Les moms '
. Banner.” 

APRIL 1956 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 189

 

-.———-——--—-—
-_—.—-—

 

Exploring

The archaeological camps sponsored
jointly by Girl Scouts of the U.S.A. and
the Museum of New Mexico have shown
how well our older girls respond to
camping with a challenge.

Girl Scout councils all over the coun-
try are learning that they can work out
rock collecting projects in cooperation
with the museums, colleges, universi-
_ties, and government conservation of-
fices that are doing an amazing variety
of scientific field work. In addition to
archaeology, there are surveys of plants,
birds, rock formation, minerals, and
soils. A Senior Scout EXplorer group
may function as a separate unit within
an established camp, or use the camp
as a base of operations, or set up its own
primitive camp on the area to be ex-

plored.‘

This kind of senior camping opportu-
nity offers immeasurable values for a
girl. She may sample the job of geog-
rapher, photographer, first-aider, histo-
rian, meteorologist, botanist, geologist,
or others, depending on the nature of
the CXpedition. She may make a start
' at life planning, or discover a hobby.

Look in your own back yard for ex-
pert consultants who can help your
council start an explorer group—From

The Girl Scout Leader, March 1954.

Spare Tire Safety

A unique method of rescuing a
drowning person is used by Officer Wil-
liam Garvey, school safety oflieer of
the Natick, Massachusetts, police force.
It is so simple that it inspires the be-
holder to observe, “Why didn’t I ever
think of that before?” The technique
consists of using the spare tire which
every motorist carries in his car. First
the tire is released from the trunk, then
the rescuer rolls or carries it into the
water. Tests have shown that it can be

190

removed in sixty seconds. The tire is
used-to keep the victim or victims afloat.

Outstanding features of this type res-
cue are that even a woman or a non-
swimmer can use the tire effectively
since it can be pushed between the res-
cuer and the victim. It has been proved
that the tire can support four men whose
weight totals approximately seven hun-
dred and fifty pounds. The method can
be used not only for swimmers in sum-
mer, but also for ice rescues during ice-
skating season. Naturally the tire can-
not effect a rescue alone, however; the
rescuer should see that the police or fire
departments are notified as quickly as
possible.

This idea is an excellent illustration
of the cooperation which is possible be-
tween the recreation and police depart-
ments in a town. The police department
has demonstrated the method to the di-
rector and recreation workers who su-
pervise Natick’s swimming and ice-
skating programs. Certainly all recrea-
tion personnel should be interested in
spreading information about this way
of saving lives. According to Bert R.
Harmon, safety education director of
the Massachusetts Safety Council,
“There are more than one million po-
tential life savers on the roads today.
Any driver can quickly and effectively
use his spare tire to save the life of
someone struggling in the water.”—
JACK T. CONNORS, Superintendent of
Recreation, Natick, Massachusetts.

Teen Certificates

Certificates or diplomas were issued
to our junior teen-agers who, because
of their age, were moving into the teen-
age bracket for activities. The certifi-
cates were presented at a graduation
dance by the recreation and parks de-
partment. —— SELWYN ORCUTT, Superin-
tendent of Recreation and Parks, Fay-
etteville, North Carolina.

Movable Fence for Baseball Fields

Binion Parsons, director of parks and
recreation in Alice, Texas, has devel-
oped a unique feature which provides a
movable back fence on his Pony and "

Little League baseball fields. This fence
consists of a series of plywood sections
on one-inch pipe legs which fit into one-
and-a-half—inch pipe sections set into the
ground in the area where the fence may
be needed. In this way, the size of the
field can be changed by moving the pan-
els forward or backward to make an
ofiicial size field for either league.—
HAROLD VAN ARSDALE, NRA Southwest
District Representative.

More Singing Fireworks

Waldo Hainsworth, NRA New Eng-

land district representative, tells of a
visit with Al Cummings, director of rec-
reation in Millinocket, Maine, during
which Mr. Cummings said that one of
their best community-wide activities to
date was the “singing-fireworks” pro-
gram. The final number was the sing-
ing of “The Lord’s Prayer” while a ten-
foot cross was lighted in the center of
the field—a finale so impressive that
people remained in their seats for sev-
eral minutes after the number without
moving or saying a word. More and
more communities are using fireworks
along with their sings for success-
ful “spectacular” audience-participa-
tion shows. (See RECREATION, June
1954, pp. 340-341, for “Musical Fire-
works” by Nellie Sullivan.)

You Can Take It With You

To the litter-leavers in the back coun-
try The Living Wilderness, official pub-
lication of the Wilderness Society, pro-
poses the slogan: “You CAN take it
with you!”

The publication also makes the fol-
lowing points: “Should we not careful-
ly consider the possible effectiveness of
an educational habit-forming campaign
that would teach us to take out of the
wilderness all the litter and trash that
cannot there be burned and thus de-
stroyed? . . . Why not return it to the
urban areas .where it was designed and
where there are facilities for its dis-
posal? . . . If containers can be carried
into the wilderness full, they surely can
be carried out emptied and crushed.”

RECREATION

100% ALUMINUM
TABLE TENNIS TABLE

FOR OUTDOOR AND INDOOR USE

Here at last is the Heavy-Duty Aluminum
Table Tennis Table featuring Durability and
Economy. Sturdin Constructed to Withstand
Extreme ’Abuse from Play and Weather.
Built to Lost a Life-time.

0 Regulation Bounce ond Construction.

0 Attroctively Finished with Green
Anodized Non-Glore Surfoce.

o In 2 sections—4 legs Eoch Section.
Eosily Separoted into 2 Tobles.

0 When Seporoted Hos Mony Uses.

0 No Mointenonce or Replocement

Problems.

Outlosts Wooden Tobles by Mony
Yeors.

A tremendous success in Colleges,
Schools, Comps, etc.

ESPECIALLY DESIGNED 8. CONSTRUCTED
For Heavy-Duty Use In:

Outdoor and Indoor Recreation Centers,
Playgrounds, Resorts, Clubs, Camps,
Ocean-going Vessels, Etc.

For F 1111 Details, Write:

All-Metal Tennis Table Co.

760 George St. — Teaneck, N. J.

   
 

administration.

  

 

NEW YORK UNIVERSITY

SCHOOL OF EDUCATION

Leadership Training in Recreation and Camping Education

Courses lead to the B.S., M.A., Ph.D. and Ed.D. degrees, and to posi-

tions in public and private agencies. Curricula on the graduate level
allow for specialization in recreation administration, camping and out-

Write for information to Dr. Milton A. Gobrielsen

 

     
     

THE RUBBERTZED PREMIX   e n ,, , 
7 oh Is,- admm I,
5: ton, squash .and 
«paddle tennIs. 

REDUCE INJURIES
BRING SAFER PLAY
TO YOUR PLAYGROUNDS

    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
  
   
  
 
  
  
   

 _ or
. .- U ,, ._ _ _, g a;
\ .4-.-__:-,.__ (4:;113 “1-4”??? 5.5 aw.b;’o...{ ("Wm—r. .12: 44c

fbsferp/ay../anger/i e.

For years DAYTON Steel Rac-
quets have been the favorite of
professionals and beginners
alike. Thousands are now play-
.3,._.,:..._  --.,,,,_._.;...,.,._.,;-g;g;3,:5;:;;:;g:;:;.,;:,ag;e;; -'-'- ing an improved game—with
  MATERIAL. more speed and accuracy than

 ..  55-" ever before.
RC-l
/////;w///,

SAF-PLA

SURFACE MATERIAL.

loo
.-
u

l:-

o .--.-.. ... ...

.... . - .. .. . _ ...“ ..

a .;.".I,-..-. .r, ..o , .. -..
,n

 

Daytons are practically inde- ' ' 

structible—ideal for 

schools and play-

grounds. Steel strings lilIIES and

and tubular steel court laYIIlllS

frames are not af- IDT badminton
 fected by climatic or tennis are

changes. No covers or
presses are needed to
protect them. They won't
warp, splinter, rot or sag.

yours for the

LOW IN cosr mm,

WEATHER RESISTANT

It will pay you to investigate

now. See them at your local

, dealer's or write direct to factory
for more information.

DAYTON RACIIUET CUMPAN
74F Alhright St. Arcanum, Ohio

ayton
STEEL RACQUETS

Developed by

U. S. Rubber Reclaiming (0., Inc.

P.O. Box 365 Buffalo 5, N. Y.

   

BULLETIN AVAILABLE UPON REQUEST

USE TOP SPINNING IN YOUR
' PROGRAM

  

 
       
   

School of Educotion
New York UnIVersity

I Woshington Squore, New York 3, New York I

QUANTITY DISCOUNTS
on LEATHER SUPPLIES

Complete supplies
leather. books.

   

door education, Boys’ Club Administration and hospital recreation l
I

  
    
 
   
    
     
  
 

 
    

Write for Free Booklet

A Top Spinning Contest makes an
ideal youth activity for Boys' Clubs.
Veterans' Organizations. Fraternal
Orders, Industrial Firms. Schools,
Outing Clubs. Churches, Newspapers.
Playgrounds, Civic Groups. Business
Clubs and others. Mail coupon for
Free Booklet published by the manu-
facturer of Gropper Official Wood
Spinning Tops.

 

Tetherball

Eyebolt [——

8 Ft.
Standard
only 8 Lbs.

 

N jcyfi'o
Multi-Purpose
ALUMINUM
STANDARD

   
   

High Jump tools. 60 locations

 

Slide ' coast-to-coasl : The Jerome Gropper Co. R-4-56 I
Adéuzrm: ,,,,;';:':':g°;,;:;,,,, guaran,” fag,“ I II E. 22nd 51., New York 10, N. Y. I I |
y 3:33: '5‘i.oi..i‘.'imi°" service atlower l Pied"? “’"d FREE 5993’ of "oré‘j'mzmg l
Basgnpdgp; - HIGH JUMP o 'rEn-Irnuu. cost I A Top Spmmng Contest. I
only 9 Lbs. 50nd ror ram: CATALOGUE I NAME ......................................................... .. I
| ORGANIZATION ........................................ .. I

Write For New Leathercraft
 3‘. Catalog No. .78.

TAIIllY LEATHER 00.

l P. O. Box 791-VO Ft. Worth, Tex.

   

O ['0 I
AJ'H [Em supply ca ' ADDRESS..... ..........................................  .... ..

Dept. R, Box 1065, NEW LONDON, CONN.

 

l

‘ APRIL 1956
I

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

An appraisal of their educational
and recreational value for adults.

ONLY A very thin line separates recreation and education.
In appraising materials and methods of adult educa-
tion, we often find that the ones we rate high have been used
successfully in the field of recreation. More than a year ago
we set out to discover what values, both educational and
recreational, are potential in the plastic construction kits
now so popular. We have not conducted scientific research
studies that might yield statistical data; rather, we have
merely observed the responses of adults given the opportu-
nity to participate in the assembling of the scale models from
the plastic kits. We also have held some professional semi-
nars in which we attempted to get the considered judgment
of educators. The term “adult” includes a range from six-
teen to eighty or more.

The construction kits used in our demonstrations and
tests were those which include a wide variety and are those
sold throughout the country in department stores, hobby
shops, and five-and-ten-cent stores.

We started our study with the realization that such kits
probably have some values in recreation and in education
but have no inherent magic. We could not, of course, get
“clinical” results by the methods we used, but relied on

common-sense judgments representing a consensus of those
engaged in making the appraisals.

Primary Advantage of Plastic Construction Kits. Careful
review of the evidence fully warrants the conclusion that
the plastic kits have as their primary advantage the quick-
ness with which they provide a return for the time and effort
invested. Airplane and ship-model kits which were popular
some years ago consisted of balsa blocks and strips, together
with working plans and cement or “d0pe.” To use the kit
one shaped the balsa, carefully following designs that showed
the exact size and shape of each part, and cemented the
finished parts together. For persons who had the necessary
time, skill, and patience, these kits were rewarding, but they
were never so popular as the plastic kits have become.

Those that provided only the raw materials from which
each part had to be shaped were beyond the skill of most

beginners. It is likely that a large proportion of the models
were never finished, for time ran out, or patience ran short,

or some excusable error was diflicult or impossible to cor-
rect. As a rule, one failure of this kind was so discouraging
that no second attempt was made. By contrast, it has been

W
DR. JOHN CARR DUFF is professor of education and chairman

of Department of Adult Education at New York University.
192

 

John Carr Duff

observed in almost all of the tests, that the construction of
a model from a plastic kit was successfully accomplished.

It is a familiar principle in occupational therapy that the
materials provided should give a high assurance of success
and satisfaction within the available working time. This
principle applies equally well in education. It is true, of
course, that some adult hobbyists cheerfully invest a thou-
sand hours in the completion of some special project. They
are persons who have time available and an intense interest
in the field represented by the projects they develop. More-
over, they usually have ideal working conditions and the
guarantee that their unfinished work will not be disturbed
when they must leave it.

But there are millions of persons for whom such condi-
tions are not available. The plastic kits make it possible for
these millions to have experiences which allow some of the
pleasure and satisfaction that is the principal reward for
making something. The only accessories required for their
assembling are a pocketknife and a tube of cement. No
workbench is needed. Lying in a hospital bed, seated in a
living room chair, or riding on a railway train, one can con-
struct the model from its prefabricated parts.

Creativity. Some of the educators who appraised the con-
struction kits were of the opinion that the kits do not provide
an opportunity for genuinely creative experience. Others
maintained that creativity is relative—that a person who
used the kit materials to assemble a scale model and obtained
some pleasure and a sense of achievement was enjoying a
creative experience, even though the creativity was not on
a high level. A higher level might be drawing plans for a
ship model, shaping the various parts out of appropriate
raw materials, and so on. For a beginner, however, or for
a person with limited skill or limiting infirmities, it is a crea-
tive exPerience to assemble the parts and to see the model
take shape in his hands. The success achieved in an easy
project sometimes provides a strong incentive to attempt
other projects that are more difficult.

Variety in the Plastic Kits. The value of the kits is greatly
enhanced by the wide variety in which they are available.
There are now kits for making foreign and American cars,
airplanes, ship models. One series includes a stagecoach, a
covered wagon, and other vehicles related to the history and
development of our country. Another includes the fire ap-
paratus familiar in American cities fifty years ago.

This variety increases their appeal where the individual is
free to make a choice in terms of his own active interests.

RECREATION

 

However, not only a range of interests but a range of diffi-
culty is represented. The plane models are among the easi-
est and are preferred by youngsters.

The instructions that come with the kit usually offer sug-
gestions concerning colors, but one is free to use his own
imagination, and some persons prefer not to put any paint
on them at all because the plastics come in a range of ap-
propriate colors. The instructions also suggest ways in
which the completed models may be used for decoration.
As might be expected, there are collectors of the models, who
seem to be much more interested in having them than in
making them.

Educational Values. Their educational potentials are most
obvious when they are used by teachers as a means of mo-
tivating classroom learning in the elementary and junior-
high schools. It is impossible to assemble one of the auto-
mobile models, for example, without having some curiosity
about the real car of which it is a miniature. Teachers are
alert to capitalize on this curiosity. Most of the early auto-
mobiles have a “tiller” instead of a steering wheel. Why?
Why did the early cars have no windshield? Such questions
sometimes lead into a systematic study of the history of
automotive transportation, of the development of roads and
highways, and of highway safety.

In most cases the educational values of the plastic kits are
different for adults than for children, but there are equiva-
lent values. A man or woman of fifty can remember inter-
esting people, places and events associated with the old auto-
mobiles. The millions of men and women who are veterans
include many who have an active interest in planes and naval
craft and enjoy making models of them. We found that
some times whole families are partners in the production
of the scale models. Youngsters who know a great deal about
the British MG and the Jaguar listen to their grandparents’
accounts of driving in the days when headlamps were an
“extra” on automobiles.

It is a characteristic of our times that too few parents——
fathers especially—find time or opportunity to share en-
thusiasms with their own children. The construction kits
appear to have a great potential here. It is a wise father who
knows his own son; and a partnership assemblying project
turns out in some cases to be a way of knowing him in terms
of his skills, his interests, and other aspects of his person-
ality that come to the surface during a happy hour of work-
ing and playing together.

Social Value. While the construction of plastic models is
usually an individualized project, we demonstrated that the
kits can be used for social entertainment in small groups.
We found that at a party for a somewhat sophisticated group
of adults there was immediate interest. We made up teams
of four and gave each team a plastic kit to assemble. The
teams required about half an hour to construct the model,
and all members seemed intrigued with the activity and
proud of their joint effort.

The Young Adults. We could not find as much evidence as
we needed concerning the use of the plastic kits by this age
group—youths sixteen and over who are not attending

» "APRIL 1956

school. There seems to be some reason to believe, however,
that youth-serving agencies could use the plastic kits to ad-
vantage in recreation activities.

Young men who enlist in the military service at seventeen
or eighteen take part eagerly in the recreation and crafts
program offered for off-duty hours at most posts, camps,
and stations. Many veterans reported that making model
planes and ships had been a favorite diversion. The plastic
kits are now sold in most post exchanges and are standard
items on the recreation supply list for ships and stations.

Therapy. In the hospital wards, where time is not at a premi-
um but where the patients have limited energy or patience,
the model kits are widely used as a part of convalescent
therapy. Dr. Melvin Weiner, clinical psychologist at Worces-
ter State Hospital, Massachusetts, states that they have been
used with mental patients, with excellent results.

Dr. William Menninger of the Menninger Foundation,
Topeka, Kansas, reports, “Some patients passed through
three stages. In the hospital, building models protected them
from the ravages of boredom and depression. At home, it
took up the slack of growing restlessness. But once they had
left their bed and doctor, former patients continued model-
making as a legitimate source of pride, satisfaction, and
serenity.”

What is good for the patient may be good for the doctor.
The Journal of the American Medical Association, Volume
154, Number 10 (March 6, 1954) , contained this statement

about the use of construction kits:

. . . Most physicians, of course, are skilled in the use of their
hands, but time, a commodity especially rare in the life of a doc-
tor, makes it almost impossible for him to devote to the hobby
the days and weeks of painstaking effort it takes to create an
authentic model . . . With plastic kit modeling, however, the phy-
sician or other hobbyist, can, in a matter of hours and minutes,
create a perfectly detailed replica at about the cost of a dollar.

Older Adults. The annual hobby show at the American Mu-
seum of Natural History in New York is the occasion for
the display of hundreds of hobby items skillfully made by
men and women sixty-five and over. Scale models are in-
cluded. Most of the hobbies are of the kind that represent
an investment of hundreds of hours, however, and the edu-
cator who appraises the hobby show must be impressed by
the fact that there are many elderly men and women who are
not represented in the exhibit because they have not the skill
necessary to fabricate creations comparable to most of these
on display.

The plastic construction kits seem to offer an excellent
activity for many older adults, especially for older men. In
the later years one’s fingers get stiff and lose some of their
dexterity because one’s hands are idle. Finger exercises are
valuable, but of greater value are activities which involve
the mind and heart and the whole personality.

Conclusion. Our study of the construction kits provided

abundant evidence that they are a significant innovation in
the list of materials for education and recreation. One can-

not arbitrarily assign them any certain value, for in every
case this is determined by the needs of the individual who

uses them. Their use deserves further study by adult edu-
cators and specialists in recreation. I

193

 

 

I f you are interested in any of
these products, write directly to
the manufacturer at the address
given. PLEASE mention that you
read about it on RECREATION
magazine’s Market News page.

 

0 Three new models of De-
does Automatic Batting Prac-
tice Machines allow players to
practice indoors or outdoors.
They are electrically powered
and simple to Operate; de-
signed with an easy-to-fill hop-
per, completely safe to use.
They pitch various-sized,
harmless balls at regulation
distances; can be adjusted to
throw fast balls, slow balls,
even curves, to simulate actual pitching. The “Prep” model
(illustrated) is especially designed for youngsters. Dedoes

Industries, 2070 West Eleven Mile Road, Berkley, Michigan.

 

O Brite Cord is a new “lanyard material” for braiding,
lacing, square-knotting, weaving, and many other related
craft projects. This round, tightly braided cord, made of
high luster, continuous filament rayon, is both strong and
flexible. It comes in twelve brilliant colors, 12-foot hanks,
80-yard spools, or 480-yard spools. Pepperell Braiding
Company, Inc., East Pepperell, Massachusetts.

9 For golfers, the Par-Kit
“guarantees to cut five or more
strokes off a player’s score.”
The kit contains: the Grip-
finder, to make the player auto-
matically hold the club square
to the line of direction; the
Golf Swing Gauge a golfer’s
protractor with a sighting ar-
row to locate the line of direc-
tion and a club pathfinder to
measure a player’s own angle
of swing or “inside-out-line”; and a booklet, Golf’s Inside
Secrets by Frank Strazza. For information write to Golf

Research institute, lnc., Country Road, Westport, Con-
necticut.

 

The Institute has also produced a new five-minute, 16mm,
soun’d film, in color or black and white, with the same title,
Golf 3 Inside Secrets, starring Frank Strazza.

.6 A new sixteen-page catalog contains detailed informa-
tion on tapered steel and aluminum Monotube floodlighting
poles designed for use in lighting outdoor sports and other
activity areas. Easy-to-read diagrams show installation and
mounting details; numerous illustrations show a wide range
of Monotube applications. Copies of Union Metal Flood-
lightng and Area Lighting Poles, V0. 87, are available
from 'I he Union Metal Manufacturing Company, Canton

5, Ohio.
194

 

O J ayfro is now manufacturing another
new recreation equipment piece—the Six-
Way Multi-Purpose Standard. These alu-
minum standards feature a cross bar slide
and permanently engraved official mark-
ings for the high jump; they are drilled
for adjustable eyebolts at official heights
for volley ball, badminton, tennis, and
paddle tennis nets; and the top of each
standard is equipped with an eyebolt for
tetherball. For indoor installation the
standards have aluminum base plates and
bronze floor plates; they have ground
sleeves and caps for permanent outdoor
installation. There is also an interchange-
able standard set for indoor and outdoor

‘ use. The standards are lightweight, easy ,_
to move and to install. Jayfro Athletic
Supply Company, Dept. RMN, P.O. Box
1065, New London, Connecticut.

 

O The MacGregor Company recently has made available
its annual golf-lesson charts. The 1956 edition features
Doug Ford, PGA champion, showing how to putt, and Lew
Worsham, U. S. Open champion, showing how to hit a
wedge shot. Copies may be obtained without charge from

the company at 4861 Spring Grove Avenue, Cincinnati 32,
Ohio.

9 The Satellite is
a dome-like concrete
play structure which
assumes manyforms ;
in the eyes of imagi- f
native youngsters. It
serves as a cave, a
space ship, an igloo,
a submarine, a giant
beehive; the rigid
steel pipe extending
through the center
opening and down
the side becomes a
fireman’s p ole to
slide down; the car-
go net down the side converts the Satellite into a pirate ship.

Challenging but safe, the structure provides maximum
safety, minimum maintenance, It is covered with a nbn-
scuff, non-skid epoxy resin and is available in ten colors.
Bu11t in a “split” half-dome section, the Satellites are inter-
changeable and offer a combination of twelve designs. For
a descriptive brochure, write to Midwest Pool and Court

Company, 1206 North Rock Hill Road, St. Louis 17,

Missouri.

RECREATION

   
  
  
    
 

asi‘iai
lE

Keeps MUIti‘Purpose GYm Floors *  
“SUP—WIFE” Gym..,,,m ,, We Va,

ley Elementary School. St.

Protects Against Grease and Dirt Build-Up MP" “‘3” “4°” d°”'

bles as lunchroom during
the noon hour.

Beautiful, fast-play gymnasium floor in
Oakwood Junior High School. Kalama-
zoo, Mich.

Climaxirzg years of research in Hillyard laboratories, this new "test tube” firzis/a

       
       
 

ls formulated for asphalt tile, yet safe for fast and simple. Although non-slip, it is
all floors not tacky, will not catch and build up dirt.
Will not soften, fade, darken or discolor provides extra economy
any resdlem floormg materlal- The finish stays. After repeated washings,

   

Gives complete surface protection
Forms a hard, smooth, unbroken surface

that repels dirt and grease, keeping them

from grinding in. Protects floor against  f . f .
food fats, that otherwise would create an 6 Per ea 501mm“ or spec’al Pmblems

unsightly, slippery condition. No Water 0f mUItl'Purpose rooms ' ' ' one Pmduct

 
 

the rich velvety lustre buffs back easily.
Eliminates frequent stripping and refinish-

    
   
       
   
   
       
     
 

spotting, which fulfills your requirements for safety,
Makes maintenance easy appearance and economy on every floor of
The hard, smooth surface makes sweeping your building.

 
 
 

r _ — — _ — - _ — __—— — - - — ——uI-——u-I_-m-_m_—_—nm—H1

  
  
  
 

 

I l
The Hillyard Maintaineer® will be glad to ex- I  St. Joseph,  I
plain or demonstrate the most effective and eco- ' o . I
Homrcal methods for condttlomng ' Please g1ve me complete details on a treatment program for I
your asphalt tile gym floor. The I _
services of this trained floor expert I asphalt tlle  floors, l
are available to you without charge I |
or obligation. The Maintaineer is I '
On Your Staff. Not Your Payroll I Name ________________________________________________________  .................................. -- i
' l
I . . .
ST. JOSEPH, 1 Institution ......................................................................... -; ......... .. l
MISSOURI | :
Passaic, N. J. l
San Jose, Calif. l Address ................................................................... -.. ................... .. |
l I I
l g l
5mm“ °"‘" w°'°"°"‘° 5’°"“ ‘" “Nip” Cm" C197-.7:Tr.':'::.:;::ftr::::;::.jrr71::1:17:77?“‘7"if:17:7:":ht'rtf'tfismt?  _.!

 

APRIL 1956 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 195

‘ll

 

ACBB Convention

The American Council for Better
Broadcasts will hold its annual conven-
tion at the Deshler—Hilton Hotel, Colum-
bus, Ohio, on April 20. The public is
invited to attend -— membership in
ACBB is not necessary. A joint meet-
ing of the ACBB and the Institute for
Education by Radio and Television will
convene to watch kinescopes of live TV
programs and discuss them. The climax
will be reached at the dinner session
with the discussion of “Network Pro-
graming for Children.” Representa-
tives of the networks will open the dis-
cussion, using as points of reference the
report of the Senate Subcommittee on
Juvenile Delinquency, the report of the
NBC Children’s Program Review Com-
mittee, and programing this year. For
further information write to the council

at 423 N. Pinckney, Madison, Wiscon-

SH).

School and Recreation Player

A new portable record player, de-
signed for classroom and recreation de-
partment use, called the Coloratura
(Model C-12), incorporates many ad-
vanced electronic features for high fidel-
ity reproduction, yet weighs only twen-
ty-one pounds and is easily carried. The
Coloratura is being introduced by New-
comb Audio Products Company, 6824
Lexington Avenue, Hollywood 38, Cali-

fornia.

Free Tapes, Scripts
and Transcriptions

The 1956 Educators Guide to Free

Tapes, Scripts, and Transcriptions is
now available. Reprints of two articles
therein, “The Development of Audio
Tools for Teaching” and “Bringing So-
cially Useful Audio Experiences into
Your Classroom” will be furnished free
upon request. The guide costs $5.75
and is published by Educators Progress
Service, Randolph, Wisconsin.

Tape Recorder Information

The age of the magnetic tape recorder
has arrived. While it is considered a
“new medium,” it is actually very old,
even though it has come into general
use largely within the last ten years. To
help you better understand the uses and
operation of tape recorders a new book,
Tape Recordersn-How They Work by

196

Charles G. Westcott, is designed to serve
as a guide towards selecting equipment
11 e c e s s a r y for specialized recording
problems and to supply necessary know-
how for its best use. It contains many
illustrations and diagrams. Published
by Howard W. Sams and Company, In-
dianapolis 5, Indiana, the price is $2.75.

Radio Philatelia

Pbilately has come a long way from
the old-fashioned system of assembling
stamps according to countries and is-
sues. The modern format, called “Topi-
cal collection,” groups stamps based
upon a specific theme. A new book,
Radio Philatelia, by Herbert Rosen is
designed for the philatelist as well as
the layman and offers a new approach
to a most fascinating topical subject—
the development of telecommunications.
The subject is traced from its inception
to the present day, exclusively through
the medium of postage stamps. Each
page is devoted t oa difierent phase of
radio or broadcasting, listing stamps
dedicated to different radio stations,
broadcasting buildings, microphones,
as well as stamps commemorating radio
conferences, congresses and electronic
exhibitions. Stamps featuring use of
radio in the air, at sea, at war, in the
Arctic and Antarctic, radio and meteor-
ology, as well as stamps with a television
theme are listed under specific catego-
ries. All the famous men who made the
medium of radio possible are included.
Published by the Audio-Master Corpo—

ration, 17 East 45th Street, New York
17, price is $2.00.

Films

0 Softball Rules for Girls, a set of six
lilmstrips in full color, with captions,
was produced by Gertrude Jacobs under
the technical direction of the National
Section for Girls and Women’s Sports
of the American Association for Health,
Physical Education and Recreation. The
six strips include: The Game; Pitching
Rules; Batting Rules ; Baserunning
Rules; Baserunning Rules (con’t) ; and
Olliciating. Available in sets only, at
$24 a set, from AAHPER, 1201 Six-

gorgh Street, N. W., Washington 6,

“ . .
0 Champlons on Fllm” presents two
films of demonstrations on every possi—

ble swimming technique and over sixty

different dives in slow motion by Olym-
pic champions and world record holders
on 16mm movie loops. “Champions on

Film,” 816 South State Street, Ann Are
bor Michigan.

0 An ABC for Music (11 minutes,
16mm, sound) is the first of a series in
music and takes a basic approach to
music appreciation for young children.
The film was made in cooperation with
the Mannes College of Music in New
York City and is available from Arco

Films, 2390 Broadway, New York 24.

0 Cardboard Melodrama (6 minutes,
16mm, color, sound) is intended to
stimulate the imagination of students
in designing all kinds of flat materials,
use of color, and composition. Avail-

able for sale or rental from Bailey
Films, 6509 De Longpre Avenue, Holly-

wood 28, California.

0 Litterbug (10 minutes, 16mm, color,
sound) shows how a little boy learns
the lessons of neatness and determines
to cease being a litterbug. Avis Films,

904 East Palm Avenue, Burbank, Cali-

fornia.

0 Baylor Summer Camp for Boys (24
minutes, 16mm, color, sound) depicts
the recreational and athletic activities
of boys at camp. Continental Produc-
tions, 539 Vine Street, Chattanooga,

Tennessee.

0 The Winged Bequest (22 minutes,
16mm, color, sound) tells the story of
library services to the handicapped,
homebound, aged, and chronically ill
in a community. Cleveland Public Li-
brary, 352 Superior Avenue, Cleveland

14, Ohio.

0 Children’s Fantasies shows the way
to channel children’s active imagina-
tions; and Children’s Play traces chil-
dren’s development through make-be-
lieve play, constructive play, collections,
amusements, games, and sports. Craw-
ley Films Limited, 19 Fairmount Ave-
nue, Ottawa 3, Ontario, Canada.

Folk Dance Records

It wasn’t so long ago that there were
so few records available for folk and
square dances that the prospective buy-
er was glad to buy anything, good or
bad. Today, there are over one hun-
dred companies producing folk dance

recordings. A recent catalogue of the

Folk Dancer Record Service, 108 West

16th Street, New York 11, offers a wide

selection of folk dances, squares, con-
tras, and play-party songs to suit almost
any need. These range from the “Ac-
cordion Hambo” to “Zillertaler Land-
ler,” from the New England contra
dances and polkas of old Russia to the
circle dances and kolos of Yugoslavia,
from the Irish reel to the Swiss waltz.

RECREATION

 

LOOP TENNIS,

CHAMPION or PLAYGROUND GAMES

It’s tops in popularity among all ages!

Biggest value for your money because of low cost, constant
use, small space required, no hazards, tremendous appeal to
skilled and unskilled alike, and both social and organic values.

* ORDER YOUR SET TODAY!

D. R. M. LOOP TENNIS COMPANY. INC.
P. O. Box 481 Tallahassee. Florida

for a more successful

PLAYGROUND PROGRAM

buy your supplies from us. You can depend on us to serve you reliably
and dependably from our complete line at handicraft supplies.

Write For Your FREE CATALOG
of HANDICRAFT SUPPLIES

A Contribution To Our Customers

During I956 all orders over $25—will be shipped freight prepaid—via least expensive way with the
following exceptions: No freight allowance on costing powder, tiles and clays. If customer specifies
carrier or is in a hurry for delivery, we will allow Railroad freight chorges to closest Railroad terminal.

CLEVELAND CRAFTS CO.

4705 EUCLID AVENUE
CLEVELAND 3, OHIO

Introducing

JUTA-CORD

A NEW YARN IN MAGNIFICENT COLORS!

Juta-Cord is an ideal medium for handweaving, rug-hooking,
crocheting, string construction room dividers, wall hangings and
other decorating uses. Exclusive with us in the U. S. . . . a yarn
of imported, selected-fibre Jute.

Juta-Cord in 16 glowing colors .
easy to work with.

20/2 Jute Yarn, ISO-yds. V2 lb. spools $1.25 ea. postage included.

Send for free color card and new printed
Jute-Bak rug pattern leaflet.

. . fresh and modern in texture,

KEIBAR SALES. lNL.
P. O. Box 1685, Grand Central Station, New York 17, New York

MORE THAN

100,000

U.S. SCHOOLS AND COLLEGES EACH YEAR SPECIFY

America’s Finest Sports Equipment by

NEW YORK 11 DANVILLE, ILL. " L05 ANGELES 11.

 

PLAYGROUNDS:

Their Administration and Operation

GEORGE D. BUTLER. Discusses the

enlarged function of the neighborhood
playground; describes revised standards
of playground space and leadership. In-
troduces new and up-to-date programs,
and outlines current methods of dealing

with a variety of playground problems.
21 ills., 459 pp. Rev. Ed. $4.75

RECREATION AREAS

—-—iheir Design and Equipment
Also GEORGE D. BUTLER. A complete

guide on municipal recreation areas. Cov-
ers types of facilities and equipment; de-
tails planning of playgrounds, play and
athletic fields. Outlines planning prin-
ciples; gives practical suggestions for
design and helpful data on structures.

169 ills., 174 pp. 9 x 12%;. $6

PRINCIPLES of RECREATION

JOHN L. HUTCHINSON, Columbia
University. Fundamental treatment of the
key concepts underlying the organization
of leisure activity. Discusses social, eco-
nomic, and cultural changes affecting rec-
reation, and presents an overview of its
present status and future trends. Includes
suggestions for realizing a community
recreation concept. 310 pp. $3.75

Community Organization

for Recreation
GERALD B. FITZGERALD, Umber-

silty of illinnesota. Discusses community
recreation organization and program
plans on local, state, and national levels.
Aware of the school’s part in any organi-
zation move, book points out how a com-
munity can benefit by charging a public
recreation authority with the responsibil-
ity for major public services. 352 pp. $4-

LEADERSHIP in RECREATION

Also GERALD B. FITZGERALD. Em-
phasizing the principles, techniques. and
tools of effective leadership, this book
follows the premise that the recreation
leader functions primarily in relation to
people rather than to activities. Presents
the methods used to develop and evaluate
leadership ability, citing typical profes-
sional standards. Includes job descrip-
tions, salary scales, requirements of pub-
lic and private organizations. 304 pp. $4-

SPORTS for RECREATION

—and How to Play Them

Edited by ELMER D. MITCHELL, [Ini-
versity of :lIichigan, et al. This copiously
illustrated book describes the techniques
for playing fifty sports. Serves three pur-
poses: extends interest in healthful rec-
reations; assembles needed information
on various types of physical recreation:
and treats each sport from the point of
view of the beginner or average player.

157 ills; 522 pp. Rev. Ed. 35

Urder your books from:

3 THE RONALD PRESS COMPANY
I 15 East 26th Street, New York 10

 

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 197

APRIL 1956

Books 8: Pamphlets
Received

CIVIL SERVICE ASSEMBLY PUBLI-
CATION: ELEMENTS OF POSITION
CLASSIFICATION IN LOCAL GOVERN-
MENT (RR. #554), pp. 49; FRINGE
BENEFITS FOR SALARIED EMPLOYEES
IN GOVERNMENT AND INDUSTRY (RR.
#542), pp. 33; PERSONALITY TESTS
—USES AND LIMITATIONS (P. R.
#561), pp. 23; PERSONNEL ORDI-
NANCE FOR SMALL COUNCIL-MANAGER
CITIES, A (RR. #523), pp. 18; PRO-
CEDURES THAT IMPROVE PERSONNEL
ADMINISTRATION (RR. #552), pp.
35; SELECTING SUPERVISORS FOR THE
PUBLIC SERVICE (RR. #551), pp.
25. Civil Service Assembly, 1313
East 60th Street, Chicago 37, Illinois.
$2.00 each ($1.50 to CSA members) :
ten or more copies $1.00 each.

     

DIGEST OF LAWS RELATING TO STATE
PARKS, Flavel Shurtleff. National
Conference on State Parks, 901 Union
Trust Building, Washington 5, D. C.
Pp. 256. $3.00.

DRAWING FOR YOUNG ARTISTS, Mary
Black Diller. Pitman Publishing
Corp., 2 West 45th Street, New York
36. Unpaged. Paper $1.00.

ENGINEERING OF CONSENT, TIIE, Edward

L. Bernays, Editor. University of
Oklahoma Press, Norman, Oklahoma.
Pp. 246. $3.75.

FACTS OF LIFE AND LOVE FOR TEEN-
AGERS (Revised Edition), Dr. Evelyn
Millis Duvall. Association Press, 291

Broadway, New York 7. Pp. 426.
$3.50.*

Announcing—I956 Enlarged Edition

TENNIS FOR TEACHERS

This authoritative text, used by more
than 15,000 physical education and
tennis instructors throughout the world,
Contains:

- Analysis at good term in nine strokes -

- iactics and strategy used by champions -

- leaching progressions tor Individuals and
groups -

- Mass instruction methods for backboard,
gym. or limited court space -

- iennis tests, seii-testing. and tournament
activities -

- 90 action photos and illustrations -

- Otticiai tennis rules -

- Detachable bulletin board chart, 18" x 25”.
with eighteen illustrations and directions -

Sent prepaid anywhere in the world . . . $4.00
M. I. DRIVER CO.
803 Moygara Rd. Madison 4, Wis.

 

198

GROUP-CENTERED LEADERSHIP, Thomas
Gordon. Houghton Mifiiin Company,
2 Park Street, Boston 7. Pp. 366.
$5.00.*

INN GAMES. Sport Shelf, 10 Overlook
Terrace, New York 33. Pp. 40. $.50.*

KEN LOEFFLER ON BASKETBALL, Ken
LoefIIer with Ralph Bernstein. Pren-
tice-Hall, Inc., Englewood Cliffs, New
Jersey. Pp. 197. $3.95.*

LUCKY DAYS, Laura Pardee and Eliza-
beth Young. E. P. Dutton 81 Co., Inc.,
300 Fourth Avenue, New York 10.
Pp. 127. $2.50.*

MYSTERY PLAYS FOR YOUNG PEOPLE—
A collection of royalty-free one-act
dramas of mystery and suspense,

John Murray. Plays, Inc., 8 Arling-
ton Street, Boston 16. Pp. 372. $4.00.

NATIONAL YMCA FITNESS CLINIC. Na-
tional Council of the Y.M.C.A., 291
Broadway, New York 7. Pp. 30.

$2.00 each (limited number avail-

able) .

NEIGHBORS UNITE FOR BETTER COM-
MUNITIES. Community Chests and
Councils of America, Inc., 345 East
46th Street, New York 17. Pp. 36.
$.50 each; ten or more $.40 each.

1000 BEST SHORT GAMES OF CHESS,

THE, Irving Chernev. Simon and

Schuster, Inc., 630 Fifth Avenue, New
York 20. Pp. 555. $5.00.*

RECREATION POLICY, STATE OF CALI-
FORNIA. Documents Section, State

Printing Office, Sacramento, Califor-
nia. Pp. 86. $1.00, plus $.03 tax for

California addresses.

ROCKS AND MINERALS, Richard M.
Pearl. Barnes 81 Noble, Inc., 105 Fifth
Avenue, New York 3. Pp. 275. $1.95.

SEVENTH ANNUAL CALIFORNIA RECREA-
TION CONFERENCE, PROCEEDINGS,
1955. State Director of Recreation,
721 Capitol Avenue, Room 609, Sac-
ramento 14, California. Pp. 104.

Limited number of copies available
free.

SIMPLE GYMNASTICS. Sport Shelf, 10

Overlook Terrace, New York 33. Pp.
40. $.50."r

SOCIAL CASE-WORK IN GREAT BRITAIN,

Cherry Morris, Editor. Whiteside,
Inc., 425 Fourth Avenue, New York
1.6. Pp. 231. $4.00.*

TEACH YOURSELF MAGIC, J. Elsden
l uiis. Emerson Books, Inc., 251 West

19th Street, New York 11. Pp. 182.
$2.50.

‘: Sm; footnote on pilng 199.

SONGS FOR LITTLE CHILDREN, Book I—
Twenty-six songs to the Robert Louis
Stevenson Child’s. Garden of Verse,
with music by Marvin Radnor. Mar-
vin Radnor, Publisher, Caxton Build-
ing, Buffalo 3. Pp. 29. $1.50.

VOLLEYBALL—u—OFFICIAL GUIDE. United
States Volleyball Association, 291
Broadway, New York 7. Pp. 195.
$.75.

 

Magazine Articles

BEACH & POOL, December 1955
A History of Swimming, II, S. N.
Wilson.
A Basic Guide to Better Swimming
Pool Operation and Maintenance,

W. 0. Baker.

 

NATIONAL PARENT-TEACHER, January
1956
Is “Gang-busting” Wise? Clifford R.
Shaw.

SPORTS ILLUSTRATED, December 12,
1956

Scotch on the Rocks (Scottish Curl-
ing), Andrew Crichton.

YOUTH LEADERS DIGEST, January 1956

Physical Education and/ or Recrea-
tion, Ben Solomon.

CHILDREN’S BOOK AWARDS

National Mass Media Awards in the
field of children’s books for 1955 were
presented in February by the Thomas
Alva Edison Foundation.

His Indian Brother by Hazel Wilson,
published by Abingdon Press, received
the foundation’s award as “The Best
Children’s Book for Character Develop-
ment” (for younger children). The Boy
Scientist by John Lewellen, published
by Simon and Schuster, won “The Best
Children’s Science Book” award (for
younger children). The Buffalo Trace
by Virginia S. Eifert, published by ~
Dodd, Mead, and Company, won the
award for “The Youth Book Best Por-
traying America’s Past.” Scrolls were
presented to the winning publishers and
authors. In addition, each winning au-
thor received a prize of $250.

The children’s book awards are part
of the Edison Foundation National 
Mass Media Awards Program, estab-*'
lished in cooperation with over fifty na-
tional organizations, to encourage more
wholesome influences for youth in the
mass media as a means of combating .
juvenile delinquency and to interest -‘
boys and girls in science.

RECREATION

 

The Book of Games for Home,
School, and Playground

William Byron Forbush and Harry R.

Allen. John C. Winston Company,
1010 Arch Street, Philadelphia 7. Pp.
358. $2.50.*

Most of us who have been in recrea-
tion for any length of time know this
book as an excellent collection, pre-
pared with care. Here is the new, re-
vised edition, in which the material is
arranged by age groupings, and pains-
takingly indexed for easy reference.

Special chapters on amusements for
convalescent children, things of interest
to parents, teachers, and church leaders
add special help in selecting games,
leading them, and understanding their
importance to children and youth.

The directions are simple and infor-
mally presented so that, with a little ex-
perience, young people could use this
book without instruction.

The book contains over four hundred
games. A very interesting feature of
it is a listing of “games every child
should know” -— around seventy of
them. It might be helpful to make them
’ the backbone of your coming play-
ground game program this summer.—
Virginia M usselman, Program Service,

' N.R.A.

L

   
 
 
 
    
  
    
   
   
    

Seeing America’s Wildlife in
Our National Refuges

Devereux Butcher. The Devin-Adair
3 Company, 23 East 26th Street, New
‘ York 10. Pp. 338. $5.00.*

Filled with beautiful wildlife photo-
graphs, this book has been designed to
help you plan your vacation at one of
our national wildlife refuges. It not
“only describes forty-one such refuges
{ and the animals you will see there, but
‘ tells you how to get there and where to
stay overnight.

Mr. Butcher is a national leader in na-
ture protection, is known for his other
beautiful books on national parks, and
is editor of National Parks Magazine.

 

 

Field & Stream Treasury

Hugh Grey and Ross McCluskey, Edi—
tors. Henry Holt and Company, 383
gMadison Avenue, New York 17. Pp.
.- ‘351. $5.00.

A book filled with exciting outdoor

PRIL 1956

r 1

PUBLICATIONS

Covering the Leisure-time Field

adventure tales of the last one hundred
years, as they have appeared in the
sportsman’s magazine, Field (5?: Stream
(established in 1895). Dad and grand-
dad, especially, will enjoy its eight
pages of four-color reproductions of the
quaint magazine covers in the early
years, and the half-tone reproductions
of old illustrations. Signed by such
master storytellers as Zane Grey, James
Oliver Curwood, Stewart Edward
White, Robert Page Lincoln, these tales
of the days when our woods and waters
were teeming with game are ideal for
telling around the campfire—on the
hunting, fishing, trail, or camping trip.

The Real Book About Real Crafts

C. C. Roberts. ~Garden City Books,
Doubleday & Company, Garden City,
New York. Pp. 223. $1.95.*

Simple instructions are the keynote
of this new “how-to-do-it” book which
covers: making things with wire and
metal; Indian moccasins and bead-
work; paper sculpture; dioramas and
model theatres; relief maps; and other
crafts projects. Miss Roberts teaches
and works with 4-H.Clubs in New

Jersey.

The Best In Magic

Bruce Elliott. Harper & Brothers, 49
East 33rd Street, New York 16. Pp.
246. $3.50.*

Over one hundred new tricks are pre-
sented by a well-known expert on magic,
and illustrated by line drawings. They
cover novel effects for close-up perform-
ing, con uring, performances with
rings, ropes and silks, card tricks——
many of which work themselves—and
an explanation of mind-reading tricks.
Fun for recreation centers, military
service clubs, camps; wonderful club
and party entertainment.

 

* These publications are available from the
National Recreation Association at list price
plus fifteen cents for each book ordered to
cover postage and handling. Active Associate
and A initiate Members of the Association re-
ceive a ten per cent discount on list price.
Remittances should accompany orders from
individuals; organizations and recreation de-
partments will be billed on their oliicial orders.
Address orders to Combined Book Service,

National Recreation Association, 8 West
Eighth Street, New York 11, New York.

DICTIONARIES

A publisher of dictionaries, Philo-
SOphical Library, Inc., 15 East 40th
Street, New York 16, New York, has
recently added the following titles to its .
list:

Dictionary of Arts and Crafts, John L.
Stoutenburgh, Jr. Pp. 259. $6.00.

A handy reference book for new-
comers to this field and old-timers alike.
It would certainly be useful in follow-
ing some of the arts and crafts instruc-
tions that we see occasionally. Do you
know what a “hanging creeper” is, by
the way, or a “square engraver”? In-
terpretation of meaning of words often
includes details of the techniques in-
volved. New and unexpected ideas
therefore ump out from the pages while
you are looking up something fairly
routine. This fact, of course, makes for
interesting reading. Mr. Stoutenburgh
is instructor in the deparment of public
instruction, American Museum of Na-
tural History, New York City.

Dictionary of Magic, Harry E. Wedeck.
Pp. 105. $3.00.

Descriptions of occult practices,
witchcraft, wizardry, and so on—from
early Babylonian times to the present
day. This book is basically historical,
and primarily for the practitioner who
takes his magic seriously.

A Short Dictionary of Weaving, M. E.
Pritchard. Pp. 196. $6.00.

This would seem to be a really prac-
tical handbook and guide for the be-
ginner. Generously illustrated with dia-
grams, it also includes spinning, dyeing,
and textile terms. It could be a helpful
reference for teachers of any of these

crafts.

My Hobby is Photography

Don Langer. Hart Publishing Com-
pany, Inc., 74 Fifth Avenue, New York
11. Pp. 128. $2.95.

Just off the press, just iii time for the
summer vacation, and ust the book for
the beginner! The reader can start with
“How a Camera Works” and go right
through to “Photo Tricks” -— without
getting lost in a maze of technical jar-
gon. Charts and more than one hun-
dred excellent photographs to illustrate
the explanations add clarity and make
this a really practical handbook. It is
to be recommended for those who really
want to get started in photography or
to improve their picture-taking tech-
niques, and it is certainly a bargain at

$2.95.
199

 
    
      
   
   
  
   
   
 
      
     
   
   
     
        
    
   
       
   
     
     
    
 
     
      

Announcing

INVENTOBY
BLUES

“0S” Package #1
$1.12

(72¢ is for postage)

  

  

Yes, we're overstocked on a num-
ber of items and we’re singing
the blues! We must have the
stockroom space for new mate-
rials to help you in your job.
We've made up some overstock
packages which will bring you

good material at a bargain price.

“OS” #1 will bring to the. first
300 who get their orders in:

l publication which lists at $1.50

(Crafts)

1 publication which lists at .60
(Theory)

1 publication which lists at .50
(Drama)

2 publications at 25¢ each .50
(Special Groups)

PLUS

2 nature publications and a few
other items

PLUS
1 new pamphlet (Surprise)

 
 

lt's a Pig-in-a-Poke package, to be
sure, but you’ll get your money’s
worth! You need the publications!
We need the room!

National Recreation Association
8 West Eighth Street
New York 11, New York

Please send .......... ..“OS" #1 packages
at $l.l2 each

Enclosed find 3 .................... ..
or

D Please hill

Department

    
    
     
    

f] Ofiicial order

will follow

      
   

Name ......  ................... .. x ............................. ..

Department.

v O I I I I I I o I I I I I a I a I I I I I I I a I a u

n o a a o I o n I I o I - I O ‘ ‘ - ' ‘ ‘ ' s I I I I I o c o u ll

ollll

I I I a - - I u - I q I *-

200

CHESS

Iriiproving Your Chess With Pocket
Chessboard by Fred Reinfeld. Barnes
& Noble, Inc., 105 Fifth Avenue, New

York 3. Pp. 180. $1.25.

Complete with pocket chessboard,
chessmen and a pocket in which to keep
them, this paperbound book is handy
for carrying around and setting up a
game at a moment’s notice. Compiled
from other books of chess by the same
author, it is for the established chess
player and includes the eight bad moves,
how to play the white pieces, how to
play the black pieces, combinations,
sacrifices, checkmates, and a key to the
openings.

The 1000 Best Short Games of Chess
by Irving Chernev. Simon & Schuster,
lnc., 630 Fifth Avenue, New 'York 20.
Pp. 555. $55.00*

This book should provide a treat for
the chess addicts or for those who take
their chess seriously. It covers famous
games which extend over the entire field
of chess literature, arranged in order
of length, and even includes a miniature
from a world’s championship match in

1575.

COUNSELING OF T EEN-AGERS

Facts of Life and Love for Teen-Agers
(Revised) by Evelyn Millis Duvall. As-

sociation Press, 291 Broadway, New

York 7. Pp. 426. $35.50*

Dr. Duvall, well-known counselor and
author of numerous books on marriage
counseling, has'revised her guidebook
for young people. Designed to help
them during the growing-up process, it
answers with dignity those questions
which trouble junior and senior high
school youth. Details of the physiology
—as well as psychology—of sex are in-
cluded. Among many fine things said
of the first edition of this book: “Sane,
reassuring . . . minces no words in its
descriptions of growing up and all the
attendant problems of sex.”—Margaret

C. Scoggin, New York Times Book

Review.

Betty W hite’s Teen-Age Dance Eti-
quette, illustrated by June Kirkpatrick.
David McKay Company, Inc., 55 Fifth
Avenue, New York 3. Unpaged. $1.95.

iay sketches on each page combine
with a minimum of text to present the
do’s and don’ts at an informal dance,
a prom, or a ball. This book is for the
teen-ager personally to help him gain
the poise and self assurance which will
free him to enjoy social recreation. Bet-
ty White has written several books on
dancing for both adults and teen-agers,

all published by McKay.

    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
    

Change of Address

If you are planning to move, notify us
at least thirty days before the date of
the issue with which it is to take effect,
if possible, in order to receive your
magazines without interruption. Send
both your old and new addresses by let-
ter, card or post ofiice form 22S to:
Subscription Department RECREATION
Magazine, 8 West Eighth Street, New
York 11, N. Y.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

Subscription rates for RECREATION
magazine are:

1 year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $4.00
2 years . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.25

Foreign
Library subscriptions . . . . . . . 3.70

Club subscriptions . . . . . . . . . 3.50

(Ten or more individuals subscribing
at one time)

Single issues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .50

NAIIONAL RECREATION ASSOtZIMION
8 West Eighth Street. New York 11. N. Y.

 

INDEX OF ADVERTISERS

PAGE
All-Metal Tennis Table Company ______________ _- 191
American Playground Device Company .... -- 145
Champion Recreation Equipment 187
Chicago Roller Skate Company ............... _- 152
Cleveland Crafts Company ....................... _- 197
Cooperative Recreation Service, Inc ......... -- 187
D. R. M. loop Tennis Company, Inc.__--_-_-___ 197
Dayton Racquet Company _______________________ -- 191
Dimco-Gray Company ............................. -- 161
H.|.Driver Company ______________________________ _- 198
The Fred. Gretsch Manufacturing Company-- 189
The Jerome Gropper Company .................. -- 191
H. 8 R. Manufacturing Company ______________ __ 187
Hillerich 8. Bradsby  145
Hillyard Chemical Company  195
Jayfro Athletic Supply Company__----__._--____ 191
Kelbar Sales, Inc. ____________________________________ __ 197
J. C. larson Company .............................. __ 187
The MacGregor Company ....................... _- 145
Midwest Pool and Court
Company ......................... -_lnside Front Cover
The Monroe Company _____________________________ _- 187
National Sports Company ......................... __ 151
New York University .............................. _- 191
Ocean Pool Supply Company. Inc.. ..... _-174, 187
The J. E. Porter Corporation .................... _- 157
Rawlings Sporting Goods Company ......... -- 189
The Ronald Press Company ____________________ -_ 197
James Spencer and Company .................... __ 187
Tandy leather Company ......................... -- 191

The Union Metal Manufacturing Company  153
U. S. Rubber Reclaiming Company. Inc.__.--- 191

W. J. Voit Rubber Corporation ................ _- 197
X-acto, Inc. __________________________________________ -- 161

 

 

RECREATION

 

Recreation Leadership Courses

Sponsored by the National Recreation Association
and

Local Recreation Agencies

April, May, and June 1956

HELEN M_ DAUNCEY Annual Recreation Workshop L. E. Kibler, Assistant Supervisor, Health and Physical Education,
Social and Playground Natural Bridge, Virginia Safety and Recreation, State Board of Education, Richmond
Recreation Aprll 5'7
San Antonio, Texas Miss Edith W. Dodds, Community Welfare Council, 114 Auditorium
April 10-13 Circle
Sherman, Tcxas Mrs. Ralph Day, Assistant Professor, Department of Athletics and
April 16-19 Physical Education, Austin College
Toledo, Ohio Arthur G. Morse, Supervisor of Recreation, 214 Safety Building
June 11-14
York, Pennsylvania Mrs. Sylvia C. Newcombe, Superintendent, York Recreation Com-
June 18-19 mission
Westchester County, New York Miss Vivian 0. Wills, Assistant Superintendent, Westchester County
June 21-22 Recreation Commission, White Plains
RUTH G, EHLERS State of Vermont Mrs. A. O. Brungardt, Vermont Director of Recreation, Montpelier
Social and Playground Apr 11 15-25
Recreation Fayette County, Kentucky John F. Gettler, Director, Fayette County Playground and Recrea-
May 7-10 tion Board, Lexington
Great Lakes District Robert L. Horney, NRA District Representative, 223 Davis Build-
June 4-14 ing, 151 Michigan Street, Toledo, Ohio
ANNE LIVINGSTON West Palm Beach, Florida Dr. Robert L. Fairing, Head, Department of Citizenship Training,
Social and Playground April 9-12 General Extension Division of Florida, Gainesville, in cooperation
Recreation with Ben York, Director of Recreation
Sheboygan, Wisconsin Howard Rich, Director of Public Recreation
June 11-14
MILDRED SCANLON Pittsfield, Massachusetts Vincent J. Hebert, Superintendent, Board of Park Commissioners
Playground Recreation June 1821
GRACE WALKER Santa Rosa, California Miss Marjorie Matsushita, Recreation Supervisor, Parks and Rec-
Creative and Playground April 2-5 reation Department
Recreation
Los Angeles County, California Harold L. Teel, Recreation Superintendent, Department of Parks
April 9-12 and Recreation, 834 W. Olympic Blvd., Los Angeles
Ames, Iowa Miss Esther Whetstone, State Girls 4-H Club Leader, Cooperative
April 16-17 Extension Work, Iowa State College
Institute, West Virginia L. A. Toney, State Leader, Extension Work
June 4-7
Lancaster, Pennsylvania Albert E. Reese, Director of Recreation, 135 N. Lime Street
June 11-12
FRANK A. STAPLES Toledo, Ohio Arthur G. Morse, Supervisor of Recreation, 214 Safety Building
Arts and Crafts June 11-14
Altoona, Pennsylvania David M. Langkammer, Superintendent of Recreation
June 22-23

Helen M. Dauncey will be attending the Southern District Recreation Conference in Roanoke, Virginia, April 3-4.

Miss Dauncey will conduct four recreation leadership training courses for the United States Air Forces in Europe between April
30 and June 4, with emphasis on the Air Force Youth Activities Program.

Grace Walker will attend the Northland Recreation Leaders Laboratory in Minncsota, April 19-26.

Frank A. Staples will be Conducting Arts and Crafts training workshops between April 23 and May 11 at the following Air Bases.

If you are interested in further details with reference to his availability for consultation during this period, or .in the possibility of
participating in these training workshops, please communicate With Howard Beresford, regional representative of the Oliice of

Community Services, Department of the Air Force, at 3055 Bellaire, Denver 7, Colorado.

Holloman Air Force' Base, Alamogordo, New Mexico
Walker Air Force Base, Roswell, New Mexico
Clovis Air Force Base, New Mexico

Attendance at training courses conducted by National Recreation Association leaders is usually open to all who wish to attend.
For details as to location of the institute, contents of the course, registration procedure, and the like, communicate With the sponsor

of the coursr as listed above.

Mum am: My PIN-LIE" k

.' ‘ '_,.
-l . 4 ' D -'
. ..
.‘ . Ir . r
I .'
‘. I ’
.- .
‘ I
f _ '
' ",4 " "1-. 1"
' IL.‘ \
" II, II’
. - , ‘ '
s ‘ -...‘ ' - '
0‘ ‘
o ‘ '
o , J ,

    
     
     
 

Sponsored by

NATIONAL RECREATION
ASSOCIATION

8 West Eighth Street
New York 11, N. Y.

