OCTOBER 1956

 

Editor in Chief, JOSEPH PRENDERGAS‘I
Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON
Editorial Assistant, AMELIA HENLY
Business Manager, ALFRED H. WILSON

ASSOCIATE EDITORS

Recreation Administration, GEORGE BUTLER
Program Activities, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

 

Vol. XLIX Price 50 Cents No. 8

 

0n the Cover

AN INTERNATIONAL DREAM. The United

Nations building symbolizes, with beauty, the
brotherhood of man and the hopes and aspirations
For peace Of the men of many nations. It is fitting,
therefore, that we carry this international symbol on
our cover this month, in observance of the birthday
of the United Nations, October 24, and of our own

international Recreation Congress in Philadelphia,
September 30 to October 5.

Next Month

Don’t miss: “Traveling Roller Skating Rinks,”
3y Ralph Borrelli of Los Angeles, which carries very
good rink information, the articles on public rela-
ions, community theatre, public parks provided
3y industry, and maintenance of recreation areas,
lmong others. The program section will include a
:enter spread, “The Importance of Play,” “Recipes
'or Christmas Fun,” Frank Staples’ “How to Do It,”
be story of a recreation department skiing program
1nd one of a successful Air Force program, and so
m. December will carry the complete report, with
Iictures, of the International Recreation Congress

n Philadelphia.

Photo Credits

Page 371 (left), I. Gutgold, Tel Aviv, Israel; 375,
Xlouise BOker, New York City; 379, Courier-Jour-
tal and Louisville Times, Louisville, Kentucky;
80-], Xenophon Beake, Springfield, Massachusetts;
:84 (left), Leon Trice, New Orleans; 385, (Doorly)
r'abian Bachrach, (Berryman) U. S. Army, (lower
'ight) Fort Pierce News—Tribune, Florida; 386,
lam L.Resnick; 388 and 389 (left), R. V.Fischbeck;
‘89 (right) Stone, Norfolk, Virginia; 391, Emporia
iazette, Emporia, Kansas.

RECREATION is published monthly except July and
AuguSt by the National Recreation Association, a service
organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 8
West Eighth Street, New York 11, New York, is on
file in public libraries and is indexed in the Readers’
Guide. Subscriptions $4.00 a year. Canadian and for-
eign subscription rate 34.50. Re-entered as second-class
matter April 25, 1950, at the Post Oliice in New York,
New York, under Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance
for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in
Secrion 1103, ACt of OCtober 3, 1917, authorized May
1. 1924. Microfilms of current issues available Uni-
versity Microfilms. 313 N. First Street, Ann Arbor,
Michigan.

Space Representatives: H. Thayer Heaton, 141 EaSt
44th Street, New York 17, New York; Mark Minahan,
168 North Michigan Avenue, Chicago, Illinois.

_ Copyright, 195 6, by the
National Recreation Association, Incorporated

Printed in the U.S.A. 
Q» 18 t "

9 \
‘vtn‘

' Trade mark registered in U. 8. Patent Ofiice.

 

)CTOBER 1956

 

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

CONTENTS

GENERAL FEATURES

Must There Always Be a Winner? (Editorial)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Charles A. Bucher 364
Recreation Activities in Israel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Yehuda Erel 370
Cross-Country Hospitality (Exchange Program) . . . . . . . . . . . . 372
Social Education in India . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Betty Yurina Kent 373
What Can Be Done for the “Homebound Child”? . Milton'Cohen 375
Time on Their Hands—in Louisville . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 380
A New Recreation Pattern . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .David J. DuBois 383
National Recreation Month Wins the Nation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 384

ADMINISTRATION
Planning,-Acquiring, and Building Chicago Parks

. . . . . . . . . . . ....................Alfretl K. Eckersberg 392
A Statement of Policy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 394
Should Park and Recreation Departments Merge?

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .Samuel Gerson 396
Notes for the Administrator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 398
PROGRADI
Special Features for Your Halloween Party . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 386
Help for the Homehound (Idea of the Month) . .Aml Johnston 388
Shepherd’s Pipe (How To Do It!) . . . . . . . . .Frank A. Staples 390
Move Your Archery Range Indoors . . . . . . . .James A. Peterson 391
REGULAR FEATURES
Letters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 366

Things You Should Know . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 368

Editorially Speaking . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 369

Reporter’s Notebook . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 378

How To Do It! Idea of the Blonth . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . See Program

Persomlel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 400

On the Campus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 402

Hospital Capsules . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 403

Market News . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 404

Listening and Viewing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 405

Books and Pamphlets Received, Magazine Articles . . . . . . . . . . 406

New Publications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 407

Index of Advertisers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 408

Recreation Leadership Training Courses . . . . . . .Inside Back Cover

363

Must There Always Be
a WINNER?

AMERICA is rapidly becoming a na-
tion of “winners.” Do we ever stop
to realize what we are doing in always
stressing the winner? We are glorify-
ing and publicizing a few talented in-
dividuals at the expense of the many.
We are interpreting success to mean
blue ribbons, tr0phies, high grades,
purses, power, prestige, and material
possessions. Children are growing up
with the feeling they must prove su-
periority and be a winner rather than
just participate and live for the values
inherent in an activity and in life itself.

The alarming and shocking part of
this consuming desire to be “on top”
is that the schools are largely to blame.
The nation’s centers of learning are
continually urging youngsters to prove
themselves superior to their classmates.

\Vhat happens to children in this ma'd
race for first place, prizes, awards, pres-
tige, and power? Experts tell us that
some can participate in an activity, and
accept inability to excel, better than
can others. Some take it as a matter of
fact. Others become overly ambitious
and frequently high strung and nerv-
ous. They fight and push ahead, con-

tinually striving to achieve and excel
more and more.

Dr. Arthur T. Jersild of Columbia
University, noted authority in the field
of child psychology, says, “Competitive
attitudes acquired in childhood fre-
quently make life harder at the adult
level. A person may be so driven that
he is unable to enjoy his work or his
play but is compelled instead with each
new success to expend new effort in pro-
tecting his reputation and in increasing
his power.”

On the other hand, the individual
who never wins often becomes discour-

‘

(.ondrnsed and reprinted through etmrtt-sy
of Your Life and the Education Digest, copy-
rught 1955. The Kingsley Press, Inc. Mr.
Bucher is associate professor of education,
\‘cw \nrk University.

361

 

 

aged and views himself a failure in the
eyes of the world. He may give up en-
tirely, throw up his hands and say, “It’s
just no use.” Children lose the feeling
of belonging and security, and; often
take on a defeatist attitude, when they
fail to achieve in accordance with adult
standards.

There are other evils which make the
practice of stressing the “winner” edu-
cationally unsound. This is true espe-
cially in the area of sports. Undue pres-
sure is placed on the participants, par-
ents become overenthusiastic, immature
children become overstimulated, the
health of the individual is overlooked,
excessive publicity oftentimes is bad
for the “star” contestant or the “star”
team, unsportsmanlike play is resorted
to, and a sound standard of values is
disregarded.

Stressing “winners” has had an un-
favorable influence in international
athletic relations. During the last Olym-
pic games, American sportswriters kept
a day-to-day tally on points, playing up
the rivalry betweeen the U.S.S.R. and
the United States, trying to give the
American public what it wanted—a
winner. The world criticized the Nazis
for the same thing when the games were
held in Berlin.

The Olympics were never meant to
be a contest to prove the superiority of
one nation over the other. They were
designed to promote international good
will—not to tear it down. As Baron
Pierre de Coubertin, founder of this
modern international festival, said,
“The important thing in the Olympic
Games is not winning, but taking part;
the essential thing in life is not conquer-
ing, but fighting well.”

This desire to prove superiority, en-
gendered in the school, does not end
there or with children and youth. It
carries over into adult years and dis-
torts the real values that life has to

Charles A. Bucher

offer. This is reflected in the stress on
material possessions so evident in so-
ciety, the desire to make the “social
register,” and the struggle to keep up
with the Joneses.

But the schools and parents can Show
young pe0ple what the real values in
life are. Children then will realize that
rewards do not come only to those who
win first place.

Boss Kettering, vice-president and
head of research for General Motors, is
quoted as saying, “If only there were a
million more boys being taughtr what I
it takes to be a researcher, what a world 4
this could be! Think of the poor kids, ‘
from the time they start to school, i
they’re examined three or four times a
year, and if they flunk, it’s a disgrace.
If they fail once, they’re out. In con-
trast, all research is 99.9 per cent fail-
ure and if you succeed once, you’re in. '
Here’s what we ought to teach them:
The only time you don’t want an experi- l
ment to fail is the last time you try it.”

Schools should stress that the real ‘
values in life come from participating.
A child should realize that oy and ii
satisfaction come regardless of whether i
he gets top billing or is in charge of!
stage props. Instead of working onlyi
for the “A” in an English essay, young- l
sters should be more aware of trying to
improve their ability to convey their
ideas and thoughts to others.

And, instead of being obsessed with
the idea of winning a loving cup, sym- ’-
bolic of SUpremacy, the coach and team
should be more concerned with the de-I
velopment of worthwhile skills,.
strength, of healthy bodies and sports- ‘ .
manship.

It is encouraging to find that some”
schools are recognizing the evils asso-..
ciated with the practice of always hav-‘l
ing “winners.” l

A superintendent of schools in a'

midwestern state was disturbed that}:

i

RECREATION" ‘

it

 

 

l

only a few students were “getting the
breaks” in school-activity programs.
His schools now conduct the kind of
program in which every student is
given an Opportunity to participate in
dramatics, dancing, singing, art, arch-
ery, or one of the many other activities.
“Everyone gets into the act,” he says.
And, as a result, “They are learning to
work out problems together; they are
gaining respect for the achievements
of others; they are . . . getting the kind
of experience that will make them
worthwhile, resourceful citizens.”
Perhaps these are signs that, in the
years to come, the success of a school

l______
51mm}, and.
anblinq. gals Hilda,

VIRGINIA LEE HORNE, formerly
Univ. of Illinois. Provides materials
suitable for beginning, intermediate,
and advanced tumblers in individual,
dual, and group activities. LiSts the
equipment, values, directions, teaching
suggestions, safety measures, and vari-
ations for each aCtivity; methods of pro-
gression are profusely illuStrated with
sketches and photographs. Usable for
a program for the youngest child, as
well as for the student in high school
and college. 470 ill:.,' 219 pp. $3.75

. mama. comma

will not be judged by the number of M  for

political leaders, business tycoons, and
“All-American” athletes it turns out,
but by the number of well-adjusted,
useful, and happy individuals it sends
into the community. At the same time,
hospitals will lose a lot of patients, ath-
letic stadiums will have fewer seats in
the stands but more participants on the

field, and Cadillac dealers will sell to

the Joneses instead of those who are
trying to keep up with them. I

Wear Your Golden Age Club Pin With
Pride Wherever You May Go

Designed by representatives
of over 100 Golden Age clubs
and used nationally.

Gold colored metal with
evergreen tree in jewelers’
‘ ‘ enamel. Symbolic of long life,

EXACT SIZE strength and perseverance.
The words LOVE, PLAY, LEARN, SERVE
(greatest values of club membership) en-
ameled in black. The border is a laurel
wreath for honor. Safety catch.

Available Only to Authentic Clubs.
50c each, minimum order, 10 pins.

. James  a (o. 22 N. 6th Street

Philadelphia 6, Pa.

 

F0 l DIN G
BANQUET

If you are on the
Board of your
Church, Lodge.
Club. School“ etc..
you will be inter-
ested in t_hlS mod-
ern Folding Ban-
quet Table.

Completely iin-
ished tops, re- "'l
sistant to m o s t

s erv i n g hazards.

Used with or with-

out table cloths.

Write for Table and
Truck Catalog and special

price discounts _to institutions
and organizations.

Monroe Co.. 181 Church St.. Colfax. la.

 

CTOBER 1956

 

High Schools and Colleges

ELIZABETH R. HAYES, Univ. of

Uta/9. Gives methods of presentation,
materials, and ideas for dance composi-
tion. Stresses procedures which stimu-
late students to original efforts. LiSts of
suggestions for studies and accompani-
ment keep beginning choreographer
constantly in mind. Discussions on cos-
tuming, staging, use of program n0tes,
etc. Includes recommended readings
for each chapter, 12 examples of dance
accompaniment, and an annotated. bib-

liography. 75 ilk, 210 pp. $4.50
active
3am and. Cantata,

BERNARD S. MASON; and ELMER

D. MITCHELL, Univ. of Michigan. Pre-

sents well-known games together with
newer approaches. Designed to acquaint
student and teacher with play aCtivities
of a vigorous nature, this book helps
in the selectiOn of games for every oc-
casion. Includes some 1800 games and
contests divided into five categories—
contests between individuals; between
groups; goal, tag, and combat games;
team games; water, winter, and mounted
activities. 100 illr., tables; 600 pp.

$4.75

spam, gm, (Her/reation,

—and How to Play Them

Edited by ELMER D. MITCHELL,
Univ. of Michigan. This copiously
illustrated book describes the techniques
for playing fifty sports. Serves three
purposes: extends interest in healthful
recreations; assembles needed informa-
tion on various types of physical rec-
reation, and treats each sport from the
viewpoint of the beginner or average
player. For each sport historical back-
ground, description of the sport, equip-
ment and its care, skills and techniques,

basic rules and bibliography are given.
15 7 ill” 522 pp. Rev. Ed. $5

Order your book: from:

THE RONALD PRESS COMPANY

l5 East 26th Sin. New York 10

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.“

START .‘ .
ROLLER

SKATANG

maximum gym use J

 

Roller Skating is the one sport in.
which all your students can partic- 1
ipate. It handles large» groups], of
boys and girls quickly and easily,
and does not require a change of
clothes. The equipment is rela-
tively inexpensive. Little supervi-
sion is needed. That’s why more
and more schools are making roller
skating a definite part of their
physical education and recreation
programs.

 

NEW RUBBER-PLASTIC WHEELS ARE
KIND T0 GYM FLOORS These new

Duryte rubber-plastic wheels outwear
others and are guaranteed not to

mar or scratch _the floors. “Chicago” has a
skate designed for any type of floor
surface or iinish. Write today for free
details on roller skating programs

and skating equipment.

 

4490-J West Lake, Chicago 24, III.
365

THE IDEAL BOOK FOR
RECREATION LEADERS

Did You
Feed.
My Cow?

Rhymes and Games
from City Streets
and Country Lanes

compiled by MARGARET TAYLOO'R
illustrated by Paul Galdone

Here is a wonderful variety of
verses that can he chanted,
games that can be played and
rhythms that can he clapped on
playgrounds, in schoolyards, at
home and in camp.

Most of them are in the popular
vernacular because the com-
piler heard them on today’s
streets and wrote them down
just as the children sang or
played them. The rhymes and
games represent the unique and
special way that children of all
ages and races communicate
with each other.

DID YOU FEED MY COW? is
a hook of universal appeal. It
will he a joy not only to boys
and girls, but to the adults who
use it with young people of

today. All ages ' $2.75

From your
regular bookseller

THOMAS Y. CROWELL COMPANY
Established 1834 0 New York I6

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

. U I U U I I.
. . . .
v u a .‘u'.';‘

   

 

Readers! You are invited to send letters for this page
to Editor, RECREATION, 8 West Eighth Street, New

York 11—so that your ideas, opinions and attitudes
may be exchanged with others on the wide range of
subjects of concern to us all. Here is your chance to
agree or disagree with the authors of our articles.
Keep letters brief—not more than 250 words.

A “Special Place”

Sirs:

I should like to submit for publica-
tion my personal opinion of Howard
Braucher’s book, A Treasury of Living.
This book, recently reissued by the Na-
tional Recreation Association, costs the
humble sum of $1.50 per copy. In my
estimation this little book well de-
serves a permanent and a very “special”
place in a recreation worker’s library.

Howard Braucher, one of the early pio-
neers in the national recreation move-
ment, expresses a philosophy that could
well be considered the “Bible” of the
recreation profession. I know of no
other author or any other publication
that presents the “meat” of a grass-
roots recreation philosophy -——— and one
that is idealistic and yet practical for
our unique profession.

LILLIAN ROMAN, Department of
Parks and Recreation, Detroit,
Michigan.

Anniversary Issue
Sirs:

The anniversary number [I u n e ,
1956] beats all previous issues. The
ancient photos, the articles, everything
is perfect.

OTTO T. MALLERY, Chairman, NRA
Board of Directors.

'II‘ 'II' 'TT' 'TI'
Sirs:

May I take this opportunity to genu-
iner congratulate you and your col-
leagues on the splendid Golden Anni-
versary issue of RECREATION Magazine.

Having been in the field since 1914,
I thoroughly enjoyed reading the vari-
ous historic accounts and seeing lead-
ing characters in the recreation move-
ment years ago. I think quite often so
many contemporary leaders forget the
contributions these leaders gave us and

upon which the present structure is
patterned.

I thoroughly enjoyed Mr. Prender-

 

—T he Editors.

gast’s article setting forth a vision for
recreation in the coming years.

DR. HAROLD D. MEYER, Recreation
Consultant, North Carolina Recrea-
tion Commission, Raleigh, N. C.

From South Africa
Edna V. Braucher, wife of the late

Howard Braucher, executive director of
the NRA, and volunteer worker in the
National Recreation Association, wrote
the following letter to the Association
from South Africa:

I must report a delightful morning in
Durban, Natal, where I visited the di-
rector of municipal entertainment, A.
A. Pletnick, and the director of parks
and recreation, Mr. Thorns.

Durban has a forty-live-piece muni-
cipal orchestra employed the year-
round, with one month’s vacation, es-
tablished in l922—the only orchestra
in South Africa giving a complete musi-
cal program, with symphony concerts,
variety programs and musicals.

They have a beautiful municipal the-
atre in- the city hall, seating eighteen 
hundred, with full Iightboard and stage °
equipment. They also give concerts at '
the beaches and amphitheaters, a series I
of free concerts for school children, and 1
some attempt at music for the natives, I,

I
|
' I
I

BASKETBALL
STEEL CHAIN
IIETS

3 Years Guarantee!
outdoors or indoors

Also featuring Jayfro’s custom built

\/ ALUMINUM MULTl-PURPOSE STANDARDS
V SHUFFLEBOARD 5515 WITH
“RUBBER cusmonso" DISCS
v PADDLE TETHERBALL 5515 I

0 Send for Free Catalog °

JAYFRO ATHLETIC SUPPLY CO. 1
Dept. R, Box 1065, NEW LONDON, CONN. ,

A I
RECREATION I

though as yet this has not_been well

patronized.
The department of education 1n Natal

has a full-time music supervisor. The
municipal music ' department works
closely with him and has made some
tours outside Durban. One production,
High Note, was put on with an entirely
non-European cast. (Non-European
means anybody but white people.)
There is an organization, Bantu Indian
Colored Association (Bantu is a gen-
eral term for natives—Negroes), that
promotes music and painting.
Members of the municipal orchestra
are encouraged to give private lessons
and to discover and promote talent.

100% ALUMINUM
TABLE TENNIS TABLE

FOR OUTDOOR AND INDOOR USE

Here at last is the Heavy-Duty Aluminum
Table Tennis Table featuring Durability and
Economy. Sturdily Constructed ta Withstand
Extreme Abuse from Play and Weather.
Built to Lost a Ute-time.

e Regulation Bounce and Construction.

0 Attractiver Finished with Green
Anodized Non-Glare Surface.

In 2 sections—4 legs Each Section.
Easily Separated into 2 Tables.

When Separated Has Many Uses.

No Maintenance or Replacement

Problems.

Outlasts Wooden Tables by Many
Years. '

A tremendous success in Colleges,
Schools, Camps, etc.

ESPECIALLY DESIGNED 8. CONSTRUCTED
For Heavy-Duty Use In:

Outdoor and Indoor Recreation Centers,
Playgrounds, Resorts, Clubs, Camps,
Ocean-going Vessels, Etc.

For Full Details, Write:

All-Metal Tennis Table Co.

760 George St. — Teaneck, N. .l.

NEW AND IMPROVED

RYAN’S H. & R.

DRY LINE MARKERS

BETTER THAN EVER
FOR ALL SEASONAL SPORTS

"wow, _ * Force Feed—
 lnstant Shutoff—
50 lbs. capacity.

* Easy to fill and
operate.

* No Brushes or
Screens to clog.

SAVES TIME AND
MATERIAL

end to Dept. R for booklet on four other models
. 8. R. MFG. CO., LOS ANGELES 34, CALIF.

 

CTOBER 1956

 

Durban is enthusiastic about ballet,
with many private teachers and success-
ful amateurs who become professionals
and depart for England. Many ballet
productions are given by the orchestra.

The playground man is eager and
able, but faced with insuperable difli-
culties. His program for whites is good,
though without leadership. Small play-
grounds have a caretaker, usually an
elderly pensioner. There is no training
available in local colleges. There are
forty centers, 'including those for
whites, Asiatics, and natives. The larger
fields are available for group teams
from schools and industries. School
playgrounds are completely closed ex-
cept during school hours, though the
physical training program is modern
with games for all grades.

They use “tar macadam” for sur-
facing—our “blacktop,” I suppose.
They tried turf, but couldn’t keep it
up. They provide slides and swings,
but no sandboxes, as problems of sani-
tation are too great—something like
hook worm is a danger. They are com-

"mitted to brilliant colors on the

grounds. They have given up “adven-
ture” playgrounds as they could not
afford necessary supervision.

Mr. Thorns seemed to know nothing
of our publications. He showed me a
copy of Parks and Sports Grounds, an
English publication, and Park Adminis-
tration, a South African publication.

 

He is a trained horticulturalist, and
pretty wonderful in his breadth and in-
sight for a man outside our field. He
said it had been a light to open parks to
the people, for all were staffed by horti-
culture people, who wanted to develop
untouched beauty.

X'OC'I'O

Fascinating -— Exciting

SUJIMM

A BASIC NEW HANDICRAFT

NOW available in Bargain-Priced BULK
PACKS for Group Work!

#259 SUJI DEN PACK (group
of 5-8): Over $5. worth

of material. anIy..$3.50
#260 SUJI CLUB PACK

(group of 10-20): Over
$10.00 worth of ma-
terial ......... .. only $6.75
#261 sun CAMP PACK
(group of 50-75): Over
$45.00 worth of mo-
teriaI ......... only $30.00

28-page illustrated SUJI Instruction Manual-25c

Available through your regular
suppliers or write direct —

“48-99 Van Dam St., I. I. City 1, N. Y.

PROGRAM PLANNERS

 

 

\
Want a source for o well rounded croft
program? Want low cost and high
quality? Write for our new FREE cota-
IOQ listing many new and many praven
9"“-

favorites along with copious new Ideas
for Christmas gifts. Write:

SPECIAL SERVICES DIV.. UNIONVIlLE 2, CONN.

 

  
    
 

 ’IIE’COIIA'5 '

Ed Durlacher’s “Talk-Through,-
Walk-Through" System of Sim-

plified Progressive Instruction,
followed by the Complete Dance.

GUARANTEED
NOT TO BREAK

O

CHIP 0R
CRACK

 
 

 
   
   
   
  
 
  

Ad».
.,._e'o

Play-Party
Singing-Games
Folk Dances

SQUARE DANCE ASSOCIATES
P.O. Box 644, Freepart, N. Y.

Mail coupon for FREE brochure on all Honor Your Partner Teachlng Aids
SQUARE DANCE ASSOCIATES P.O. Box 644, Freeport, N. Y.

Name

I Address

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

I
I Gentlemen: Please send me free brochure of Honor Your Partner Teaching Aids,

 

 

) OCTOBER 15 ABC MONTH. ABC may
mean the alphabet to your children, but
to you it shOuld stand for the well-
known Audit Bureau of Circulations.
This was established in 1914 tO bring
order out of circulation chaos so adver-
tisers could measure newspaper and pe-
riodical circulation, and be sure of the
figures. RECREATION is an ABC maga-
zine!

The facts about ABC are dramatic-
ally told in a new 35mm sound-strip
color film, Adventure I nto Space, which
helps answer the question, “How can
we get our money’s worth from news-
paper and periodical advertising?”
Running time, fifteen minutes. Avail-
able free, except for express charges,

from ABC, 123 North Wacker Drive,
Chicago 6.

b A NON PARTISAN “REGISTER, INFORM
YOURSELF AND VOTE,” movement is be-
ing sponsored by the American Heri-
tage Foundation, .with the National
Recreation Association as one of 134
national membership organizations
participating. John C. Cornelius, pres-
ident of AHF, writes us, “Americans
everywhere are becoming more aware
of the importance of an enlightened
electorate and are giving dedicated
service to the cooperative effort to bring
out the largest possible informed vote,
this year, in all elections including pri-
maries.”

The participating organizations in-
clude national professional associa-
tions, women’s groups, veterans, na-
tional youth groups, both labor unions,
management associations, trade associa-
tions, farm grOUps, religious groups,
national branches Of educational asso-
ciations, and the nation’s schools.

For program suggestions, write to
National Campaign Headquarters, The
American Heritage Foundation, 11

West 42nd Street, New York 36.

) ANNOUNCINC A CAMPING ISSUE OF
RECREATION. This will be published in
March 1956. Do you want it to be a
good one? If so, please contribute to
it our best ideas or experiences. We
wi i need material about the following,
for example: administration, program
planning, activities, leadership, prob-

368

lems, and so on. Send articles, short
notes, information, suggestions, photo-
graphs. We want a wealth of material
to chose from so we can do our best for

you.

) MANY PUBLIC SCHOOLS HAVE REPRE-
SENTATIVES OF INTERESTING CAREER
FIELDS—policemen, firemen, postmen,
nurses, and others—talk to elementary
school children about their own fields
and why they are important. Recreation
leaders have a special story to tell, and
a welcome one. Such visits can help the
recreation program, and open young
eyes to the exciting career possibilities
in recreation leadership. Start now,
and help build your own profession!
Educate! Recruit! Promote! (Career
information is available from NRA’S
Recreation Personnel Service.)

} DON’T FORGET! The December issue
of RECREATION will carry a full report
and pictures of the 1956 International
Recreation Congress now in session at
the Bellevue-Stratford in Philadelphia.

Dates for the big meeting are Septem-
ber 30 to October 5.

} This Week, THE SUNDAY MAGAZINE
in the New York Herald Tribune and
other papers throughout the country,
carries in its September 30 issue an ar-
ticle by Joseph Prendergast, executive
director of the National Recreation As-

sociation, on the subject, “Is Your Hob-
by Really Fun?”

} ANOTHER “NATIONAL DAY” has en-
tered the list with a proclamation offi-
cially designating Sunday, October 7,
as the second annual Rock Creek Park
Day. This will be sponsored by more
than fifty civic organizations, includ-
Ing recreation and outdoor groups, con-
servatlon organizations, young people’s
assocmtions and church societies. Its
purpose is to encourage residents and
visitors in the Washington, D. C. area
to make maximum use of thepark.

} Two MILITARY SERVICE CLUB CON-
TESTS IIAVE JUST BEEN COMPLETED. Fi-
nals for the first Army-wide “Operation
Service Club” contest, sponsored by the
Adjutant General, were judged in
Washington, D. C., in September.

Awards were as follows: first prize,
Camp Tokorozawa Club, Japan; second
prize, Monteith Barracks Club, Furth,
Germany; third prize, Granite City (Il-
linois) Club. The contest covered three
categories of service club operation:
publicity in programing; program;
community relations. The winning
scrapbooks received: first prize, $300;
second prize, $200; third prize, $100.

In the “Air Force Service Club Pro-
gram Publicity Contest,” entries were
judged according- to size: Category 1,
clubs up to 1,500; II, 1,501 to 3,000;
III, 3,001 to 5,000; IV, 5,001 up. Basis
of judging in each category was pub-
licity for: special theme program; pro-
moting community relations; a base-
wide event; promoting programs which
encourage participation of airmen’s
families; a service club which operates
in an isolated area or under extreme
handicap. As in other years the Na-
tional Recreation Association was re-
sponsible for the judging, with winning
service club entries lining up as fol-
lows: Category I—firstplace,Landsberg
Service Club, Germany; second place,
West Drayton Service Club, England.
Category II—flrst place, Northern
Lights Service Club, Elmendorf Air
Force Base, Alaska; second place, Hill-
top Service Club, Kindley Air Force
Base, Bermuda. Category III—first
place, Hi-F light Service Club, Hahn Air
Base, Germany; second place, McGuire
Air Force Base, New Jersey. Category
IV—first place, Eagle Club, Wiesbaden,
Germany; second place, Wright-Patter-
son Air Force Base Service Club, Ohio.

Announcing New Alliance

Recreation Program Aids, pub-
lished by the NRA, will be discon-
tinued as a bulletin service as of
its November-December issue.
This decision has been made in an
effort to reach a greater number
Of recreation leaders and commu-
nities with program suggestions
and ideas. Toward this end, the
program section Of RECREATION
will be enlarged as of the January
1957 issue.

While we are sad to lose the
RPA bulletin service, we are hap-
py to know that our program ma-
terial will reach a much greater
circulation; happy, too, to predict
a larger circulation for the mag-
azine as additional program lead-
ers send in their new subscrip-
tions. In union there is strength,
you know. The editorial depart-
ment and the program department
are looking forward to.a happy
relationship and a greater service
to their subscribers.

 

RECREATION

Editorially Speaking

 

lnited Nations Day—October 24

The charter of the United Nations,
mbodies the hopes, aspirations and de-
arminations not only of individuals
nd peoples, but of the entire world:
ro save succeeding generations from
he scourge of war . . .,° To 7'86!me
zith in fundamental human rights . . .;
'o establish justice . . .,' and To pro-
tote social progress and better stand-
rds of life in larger freedom. As the
IN enters its second decade on October
4, with its membership enlarged to
eventy-six nations, it stands alone as
he world’s most hopeful bulwark
gainst the dreaded weapons of mass
[estruction which threaten the very
Xistence of mankind.

What is your recreation department
loing to play its part in observance of
his important day? Please let us know
0 that we may consider publishing a
ymposium of these activities next
rear! You were silent in 1955.
)rogram— In 1954, among notable
)rograms was the one held in Provi-
lence, Rhode Island, under its assistant
'ecreation director, Joseph Masino. A
Jnited Nations Hunt and Contest at a
)layground in Hopkins Park called out
me thousand spectators. Instructions
’or the hunt were as follows:

Open to all boys and girls between the ages
Elf five and twelve years, the United Nations
l unt shall take place on a well-marked course
vith various United Nations flags, coats of
.rms, portrayals, props, and arrows to guide
he children in their search for clues, flags
nd the United Nations coat of arms. These
lue pieces at the end of the alloted time for
he hunt shall fashion the United Nations flag
nd its associated member flags into a United
lations Flags Panorama. The boy or girl
rith the greatest number of flags and clue
uieces shall be declared the winner. The con-
estants shall receive no assistance in locating
he clues or flags. Failure to conform with the
ules shall bring immediate disqualification.
Awards shall be given for the greatest num-
er of clues and flags found for the following
e brackets: five to seven years; eight to ten
ars; eleven to twelve years. There shall be
' vo places in each age bracket.

 
 
 
    
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
   
 
 

The program also included a Nation-
lity Costume Contest for the same
ges, and a Nationality-Favorite Pastry
M ‘ontest for adults.

Some communities have featured an
dult program of panels and debates

CTOBER 1956

on problems of concern to the United
States, and special luncheons and din-
ners in local clubs, with good speakers,
quiz contests, special foreign delicacies.
International meals can be enticing and
fun. Favorite Recipes from the United
Nations is a cookbook available from
the United States Committee for the
United Nations, 816 21st Street, N.W.,
Washington 6, D.C., for $1.50.

The Teen-age Crowd

Let’s look at some of the ways in
which the teen-ager tries to be different.
Consider his language world. Using a
vocabulary foreign to adults assures
him of privacy. He can talk without de-
tection about intimate ideas and situa-
tions. The vocabulary is strictly for
those who are “hep.” Here the unini-
tiated adult has little opportunity to in-
trude his thoughts upon the conversa-
tion of the younger set. Note a few of
the expressions:

All Salty: Angry or upset

Big Charge: Big thrill

Bread of Gold: Money

Cap: To tease

Chick or Trim: A girl

Church Key: Can or bottle opener

Cube in 3-D or Off the Wall: The worst kind
of square

Cool Thread: Clothes with appeal

Customize: To modernize a car according to
teen-age standards

Cut Out; Split: To leave

Dig: To understand

For Kicks: For fun

Good Head: A person you like

Hep: Really knows what he’s doing, up-to-
date, savoir-faire

H otrod a Car: To use every means to increase
the power and speed

Jump: A dance or a party

Kimp, Short, Bomb: An automobile

Making Out: Smooching, sparking,
cuddly (Could refer to holding hands as
well as going beyond the bounds of pro-
priety)

Mill: Automobile motor

Passion Pit: Drive-in movie

Pick Up: To bring up-to-date

Pin a Flick: See a movie

Punch Out, Throw‘ Blows, Do Battle: Fight

between two teen-agers

Real Gone, Real Crazy: Wonderful beyond

description
Rumble: A gang fight
Scarve At Your Pad: Eat at your house
Send: To excite one ecstatically
Shook: Upset
Shotrod: A car that has seen better days
Snow Job: Plain bull or apple polishing

Spin a Brodie: To go around the block in an

automobile; to skid in a circle
Tear Them Up or Cut Them Low: To humble

or humiliate

—From “Who Wants to be a Square?”,
Alfred C. Siegler, California Parent
Teacher, February, 1956, pages 14-15.

Our Disappearing Heritage

According to the Boston Sunday
Globe on July 22, 1956, Massachusetts
State Commissioner of Natural Re-
sources Arthur T. Lyman (who is also
NRA sponsor in that city), and Na-
tional Park Service Director Conrad
Wirth, have issued “disturbing reports
on the Commonwealth’s rapidly dwin-
dling supply of unspoiled beach prop-
erty which is still available for public
use.

“Commissioner Lyman warned, in
seeking $300,000 for a continuing sur-
vev of the state’s natural resources, that
what little remains of Massachusetts’
unspoiled beaches ‘are in the process
of being ruined by hastily planned and
cheap commercial enterprises.’ ”

Mr. Wirth warned that “the seashore
—one of the nation’s greatest recrea-
tion resources—is rapidly vanishing
from public use.”

Commissioner Lyman says, “ ‘The
state must have a realistic, courageous
program and approach to the vacation
travel business and sufficient state-
owned parks and beaches to compete
with other resorts in the United States,
Canada, the West Indies and Europe.
This state is competitively declining in
comparison with competing regions.’

“The $300,000 he seeks would be
used to finance a study of not only the
state’s remaining undeveloped beach
areas, but of all its natural resources in
land, water, forests, fish, wildlife and
minerals.”

He contends that “the problem of
their preservation and best use is inter-
related” and points out that the “high-
est hurdles in the path of public acquisi-
tion of the few remaining unspoiled
beach areas are:

1. The high cost of seashore land.

2. Local resentment against state or

federal regulation of beach areas.”

 

 
 
   
 
 

‘Mlh'at canlll make ‘  -
 with HOBBY ;

rm, ,3,‘ _,,::‘,\1......_.s~mutt—“.31,”

"HOBBY TOOLS & HOW TO
USE THEM," the new 96-pg.
X-acto manual, gives the an-
swers -— interestingly and au-
thoritatively. Shows in easy
steps what to make and
how to make it — proiects
in whittling, scale model-
ing, leathercraft, metalwork,
block printing, etc.

; [Sc At hobby stores or write direct.
 48-99 Van Dam St., L. I. City 1, N. Y.

369

roots? 

All

 

 
   

’1 only

This folk dance picture shows,
Bible has for today’s Israel. Songs and dances are usually
of Songs), such as this one called “Water” from a reference. .
Many elements of Israel life are combined in such a dance: religion,

 

in the clothes and style of dancing, the deep meaning the
from hymns of the Bible (Song

to digging water with joy.

farming, song, dance.

Recreation Activities in Israel

The story of the growth of Israel’s recreation movement—of activities
in schools, cities and towns—and of the birth of a recreation center.

Recreation got under way in Israel
in 1927 when the Guggenheim family
donated playgrounds throughout the
country and established a committee to
be responsible for their direction. How-
ever, the greater part of recreation ac-
tivity started after the 1947-48 war of
liberation. ‘

At that time, the ministry of educa-
tion was in a position to solve many
recreation problems that arose during
and after school hours. There were not
enough schools and classes for one
shift. School hours were from 8:00
A.M. to 2:00 PM. Working parents re-
turned from work at 5:00 P.M.; so there
was the problem of a place where the
children could play until that time,
under the guidance of a youth leader.

Because of the many new villages and
suburbs being built, it was possible to
plan for adequate recreation facilities
and program, which are now provided,
solving this problem as follows:

School Recreation-Recreation cen-
ters attached to schools and youth clubs
for children from six to nine years old
are set up for activities for three hours

 

r-—“-- '— VL—bi—_———_

Mn. liner. is superintendent of recrea-
tion and education in Tel Aviv, Israel.

370

a day, either after the first “shift” or
before the second “shift.” The time is
divided into two major parts, one hour
for homework, and two for indoor and
outdoor games. Children from nine to
fourteen have hobby groups such as
chess, stamp collecting, model airplane
construction, sports, singing, dancing.
Independent Recreation — Here we,
find playgrounds, youth centers, youth
houses, park recreation and community
centers. The program of these is di-
vided basically into two parts—one for
social activities and one for general
education. Youth leaders help with
school homework, and teach Hebrew,
cooking, sewing, and so on. Other ac-
tivities include hiking, swimming, fish-
ing, and arts and crafts.
Leadership—To meet the growing
demand for youth leaders there are spe-
cial schools, under the sponsorship of
the department of education’s youth
bureau, where high-school graduates are
trained for youth leadership during one
year of study and one of actual experi-
ence. Diplomas are presented to stu-
dents upon completion of the course.
There is also a volunteer group of high-
school and university students who
work as auxiliary youth leaders after

Yehuda Erel

they have passed special courses in
pedagogy, psychology, arts and crafts,
and sports. This group of leaders is

called “Youth for Youth.”

The Beginning

The first community center in Israel
was provided with a great deal of help
from the American attache of education
in Tel Aviv. It was established in
a section of Jaffa called “Hashetach
Hagadol shel JaHa.” This section is
perhaps the oldest in Israel. Houses
are ancient, the newest being nearly five
hundred years old. There is no run-
ning water or electricity, and many
houses are underground. The pe0ple
who live here are among the poorest of
the new immigrants coming from the
East and from Morocco, Tunis, and Al-
geria. This sector was nearly isolated,
with only three entrances, and was with-
out education or recreation facilities.
The department of education and rec-
reation in Tel Aviv-Jaifa decided upon
a community center rather than a play-
ground for the area because available
land was limited.

It next became necessary to find a
leader who would be acceptable, well-
received by the people, who knew their

J

RECREATION

 

one purpose of the community center program is to draw fam-
ilies closer together by including them in specially planned
activities. Picture taken during election at community center.

language, customs, and ways of think-
ing. This meant a man who could read
and write Arabic, was a good sports-
man, and had a wide knowledge of
Eastern customs.

When a leader was finally chosen, he
was told that his objective was to create
a community center gradually, with the
help of the peOple themselves. He was
warned to rely on them for help, and
that any change of customs and habits
would have to be gradual. He had to
try to make himself a member of the
community as inconspicuously as pos-
sible, dress in like manner, and adOpt
local mannerisms, so as to be accepted
by the community and not regarded as
a teacher, who, in their mind, would be
their superior.

Methods and Organization
After the leader had'been there for a

time, he noticed children playing soccer
in some of the ruins of the district. He
tried quietly to make himself a familiar
part of the group, not as a leader but
as a friend, in order to gain their con-
fidence. In time, he was invited to play,
and then, slowly, invitations came for
dinner in the homes of these boys.
There, he joined in with the people in
observing all their customs and showed
his interest in every aspect of their life.
During this time he, of course, began
to meet older family members. Many
did not know how to read or write and
therefore had to hire a scribe to write
their letters. He offered them his help,
and, after a “test period,” finally gained
their confidence and was allowed to
assist many families in this way. The
first bonds were at last established.

The leader suggested to the soccer

OCTOBER 1956

players that there should be specific
teams, which they could organize in
their own way, with team names, colors,
and so on. However, there arose the

7 problem of where these boys should

meet—and so the idea emerged to turn
one of the old ruins into a meeting
place. This was- undertaken by the
group who were really interested.

During this time, the leader worked
daily with the older groups, impressing
upon them the fact that letters are
written more easily on tables than on
the fioor. This meant getting materials
for tables, setting up a writing room,
and then another room for woodwork-
ing. The people joined in these projects,
and the leader had connections in the
municipality whereby he could obtain
material upon which all interested could
work. A committee was formed to ex-
pedite this, and enlist any others who
wanted to help. The youth leader per-
suaded the electric company to donate
their services; a radio was bought, and,
slowly, the people began to enjoy many
conveniences never before eXperienced.

In getting the soccer teams organized
the girls were called upon to help knit
names on sweaters or uniforms and
in this way they, too, became interested.

Soon, a nursery was formed for
youngsters, a synagogue for the older
peOple. The latter acted as a shock ab-
sorber and a community center for the
whole area during its introduction to
the new idea of recreation interests and
activities.

This is how it all began, and it grew
each day, with more and more interest
being expressed on the part of these
“primitive” people who eagerly watched
the deve10pments.

Drama is an important part of the program and there are many
groups. Much emphasis is given religion and the new Israel
but new U. S. plays are also done. This is cast of Purim play.

 

Q

One of the most diflicult problems
was that of swearing, which was very
common. The boy and girl who did not
swear at least one hundred times a day
The leader
did not try to eXplain that swearing was
undesirable; but, during the course of
several months, he made up a list of
swear words which he compiled from
all the languages spoken. Then, one
day, when one of the boys used some
swear words the youth leader said,
“Listen, do you want to hear how a real
man curses?” He proceeded to rattle off

was considered inferior.

a string of curses, lasting twenty min-
utes, without repeating himself once.
The boy was stunned. He called the
other boys over and told them to listen
to the way a real swearer sounds. The
leader repeated his performance. He
suggested he teach them how to swear,
and told them that if they did not swear
for at least five minutes straight they
should not swear at all, since those who
really know how would laugh at them.

The leader gave the boys a lesson in
swearing twice a week. The curses he
taught them were non-obscene in na-
ture, but very involved, in order to
make an impression. Since these words
were not based on an Oriental lan-
guage, it was hard going for the boys.
In this way, little by little, swearing
became more infrequent. There were
also monthly “swearing competitions”
to which the whole community came.
The gales of laughter of the audience
at the difficulties of the tongue-twisted
competitors was a further deterrent to
cursing.

It was interesting, too, the way in
which the police, who never were really
welcome in this district, came into the

371

picture. When some prisoners escaped
the youth leader suggested that the boys
at the center could probably help find
the escapees. The boys searched for
thirty-six hours and were finally suc-
cessful. He then told the boys that
outside groups were saying that they
had helped the convicts escape. This
insult to the pride of the team made
them finally agree to turn the prisoners
in. After this, the police started send-
ing over some of their force to teach
the boys boxing and other activities.

Meanwhile, the older people slowly
were being taught to write letters, fill

out personal forms, and to read. This
was done in an offhand manner, by tell-
ing them it would be time-saving and
helpful to the leader.

Then Youth for Youth, learning of
the growing interest in these classes,
donated a library for the group. Dur-
ing this time, while the center grew, no
outside help was requested. These peo-
ple required the help to be given in just
this way, in such manner that the pro-

gram could be gradually expanded
from day to day. This was Israel’s first
experience in trying to establish a com-
munity center with the help of the peo-
ple themselves in the planning, creating,
and running of the center. This may
seem a very slow process, but it was a
must here, because it had to deveIOp
along with the education and awaken-
ing of the people. And now—seeing
these people in the icommunity center
they built for themselves—the youth
leader’s dream has come true. I

  . . . . . An Honor Roll of Host Communities.

(NRA-State Department Exchange Program)

WHEN THE mayor of Altoona, Penn—
sylvania, shook the hand of the
recreation director from Baghdad, he
symbolized the hospitality extended by
Americans in communities across the
nation to distinguished recreation lead-
ers from five continents. In the Cooper-
ative Community Recreation Exchange
Program —- Sponsored by the National
Recreation School and International
Recreation Service of the National Rec—
reation Association, with the United
States Department of State—local com-
munity leaders played a most important
part as sponsors and hosts for the for-
eign visitors.

Some communities oflered opportu-
nity to their visitors to live with Ameri-
can families. Others provided hotel ac-
commodations. All extended invitations
to take part in community activities.

Participating in the project, and pro-
viding local hospitality in the form of
residence, meals, and incidental ex-
penses, were the following:
Cali/ornia—Fairficld, Hayward, Hunt—

ington Park, Salinas, San Diego, San

Mateo, Stockton, 'I'wentynine Palms.

Vallejo.

Connecticut—Shelton.

Florida — Fort Lauderdale, Jackson-
ville, Jacksonville Beach, Miami.

Idaho- -Coeur d’Alenc.

Illinois ~lirooklicltl, Riverside.

Indiana Jellersonville, Whiting.

Iowa—Cedar Rapids, Dubuque.

Marylaan —lialtimore.

Massachusetts—AInherst.

vilichigan v Michigan State Department
of Conservation, and, in cooperation
with the Michigan Recreation Asso-

372

ciation, Battle Creek, Dearborn,

Flint, Jackson, Muskegon, Oak Park,

Plymouth, Saginaw, Ypsilanti.
Minnesota—Columbia Heights, in co-

operation with Suburban Recreation

Association, and St. Paul, in cooper-

ation with Minnesota Recreation As-

sociation.

New Jersey—Leonia, Livingston, Mill-
burn, Montclair, Summit.

New York—Auburn, Cortland, Geneva,

Glens Falls, Rye.

Ohio—Springfield.
Oregon—Klamath Falls, Portland.
Pennsylvania — Altoona, Edgewood,

Greenville, Jeannette, Pottstown.
South Carolina—Aiken.
Tennessee—Murfreesboro.
Virginia—South Norfolk.
Washington—Tacoma.

West Virginia—Charleston.

In addition to the communities pro—
viding full hospitality, as outlined
above, we also are indebted to the fol-
lowing for assistance in other ways:
California—L05 Angeles, Los Angeles

County, Oakland, San Francisco.
Colorado—Denver.

District of Columbia—Washington.
Illinois—Chicago.
Indiana—Indiana University Summer

School Camp.

I owa—Wa terloo.
Michigan—Detroit.

M innesota—Mankato, Minneapolis, St.

Cloud.

M issouri—Kansas City.

New Jersey—Union City.

New York—Long Beach, New York,
New York University Summer
School Camp, Oceanside, and four-

teen communities in western New

York State visited by Mr. Bon-

homme.

Ohio—Cleveland.

Washington—Seattle.

Wisconsin—Madison, Milwaukee, She-
boygan, West Allis.

As significant as the reaction of the
visitors was that of the people who con-
tributed time, money, and effort to
make the project successful locally.
Most of them have asked for a similar
exchange program next year, and cited
the pleasure and knowledge they gained
from helping with the 1956 program.
Delegates in this year’s program were:
Clovis Bonhomme (Haiti), Mrs. Wil-
helmina Boersma-Smit (Netherlands),
Robert Cransac (France), Yehuda Eret
(Israel), Homero Gabarrot (Uru-
guay), Ahmad Izad-Panah (Iran),
Wadood Jilani (Pakistan), Demetrios
Lezos (Greece), Goichi Matsubara (J a-

H.

pan), Ahmad Moallemian (Iran), Tai-l

suke Nishida (Japan), Rudolf Opper-
man (South Africa), Kazem Rahbary
(Iran), Abbas Shyjah (Iraq), Otto
Szymiczek (Greece), Major Adel Taller
(Egypt), Antonius Van. Baars (The
Netherlands), Dr. Paolo Vinci (Italy),
Margaret Wiseman (Australia).
Included in the non-recreation schedé
ules were such items as the Greek dele-
gate’s trip to the National Republican
Convention in San Francisco, the Egyp-
tian major’s water skiing, the Israeli’s
meeting with one of President Eisen-
hower’s brothers, and the Dutch lady’s
week-end journey to Key West. Special
events such as these reinforced the
warm welcome reported by delegates. I

C

RECREATION

Social
Education
in India

6‘Fun is learning!” writes Mrs.
Keat. In keeping with United Na-
tions Day, October 24, she sends
us this firsthand account of a sig-
nificant deveIOpment in the appli-
cation of recreation techniques.

Betty Yurina Keat

 

Good education is part recreational. Good recreation is of India proclaimed it a democratic republic and thus re-

part educational. Few would disagree with this. However,
for those of us concerned with recreation or education in
the United States, these two concepts, and the techniques,
methods, and organizations associated with each, are sep-
arate and distinct. In another part of the world, a new-born
nation plans to change the way of life for millions of its
citizens. One aspect of this plan uses the methods and tech-
niques of recreation for education purposes—a paradox,
a contradiction in terms, part of social education in India.

Social education assumes that to change a way of life,
people must learn. To learn, however, they must want to
learn. To learn usefully and efficiently, they must enjoy the
learning process. To create and sustain this receptivity is

  
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
  

a task which recreation and recreation activities are assum-
ing more and more often. A special need in ar‘special area
developed this new use for organized recreation.

Social education on a nation-wide scale is a relatively
new concept. It is, in fact, a by-product of Indian inde-
pendence since 194-7. It is one ingredient in the first Five-
Year Plan which that nation drafted to accelerate its socio-
economic development. Many problems face a nation new-
born in the twentieth century. Choices must be made by a
nation—they are not made for it. Its political framework
—should it be democratic or totalitarian? Its society——
should it be egalitarian or hierarchical? The Constitution

Rs. KEAT spent six months in India under the South Asia
egional Studies program of the graduate school of the
niversity of Pennsylvania. Her study of the role of rec-
eation in I ndia’s social education was conducted in rural-
rban Delhi, which had the first and most experienced pro-
ram of this kind. Previously, she had been active in
ecreation with the New York City Department of Parks.

CTOBER 1956

vealed the choices India had made. The plan was designed
to accelerate the growth of a social and economic base

which would support the political framework of the new
nation.

Democracy is not an empty word nor a bare set of politi-
cal institutions. Functioning democracy recognizes the
equality and dignity of men and of their rights to life,
liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. In daily life these
phrases mean opportunities—for relations with neighbors,
for employment, for education———-which encompass a mini-
mum standard of living. These attitudes and the institutions
to preserve and protect them do not prevail in all parts of
the world. They are not even comprehended by millions
in a society or nation. The interpretation of these values,
so that they present a meaningful and desirable way of
life to the leaders of these countries, is a challenge to the
United States; the integration and adaptation of these values
into the indigenous culture is a challenge which faces these
nations. It is this challenge which social education has been
designed to meet.

The population of India is almost 400,000,000. Eighty
per cent of these millions are scattered in 500,000 villages.
More than three quarters of these people are illiterate. They
lead a hard and poverty-stricken life which hundreds of
generations of their ancestors have already endured, a way
of life long preserved by a social system in which tradition
and birthrights protected by tradition place no premium
on change and which poverty has reinforced. Democracy?
Hardly a word symbolic of the social organism as it exists.
Indian leaders in the pre-independe'nce movement had, how-
ever, concrete ideas about the kind of new India they en-
visioned. These ideas are crystallized in the Constitution

and the first Five-Year Plan. . +>»»—+

373

This was the paradox which faced nascent India; masses
which accepted the social system and the poverty it had
helped produce with few if any questions; upper classes
with a vision of equality and opportunity. A vast program
of social education became necessary to communicate these
aspirations so that all might cooperate in the work of build-
ing a whole new nation.

Vague and indefinite ideas and pr0grams were included
under the amorphous agglomerate of “social education.”
A new need had been met with a new idea; but the idea,
like most babes, had been born bare. Specific goals of social
education were indefinite. Methods, materials, and the tech-
niques with which to achieve these goals were non-existent.
Nine years of cautious experimentation followed.

Early efforts in the field were largely devoted to mass
literacy campaigns—“Make India Literate!” This, in itself,
was to produce social good. But several factors soon forced
gradual abandonment of this policy. Adequate resources,
teachers, supplies, and finances for such a large-scale enter-
prise were not available. Apathy met such efforts as were
made. The wheel of life which the average Indian turns
is not one which assigns literacy a prominent place. Poor
men in India deal with small cash sums so account books
are not kept. Letters are rarely received—and more rarely
sent. Education, a “good”? Why? Is it not the educated
son who deserts the village and his father’s farm to work
in the city? Slowly it became apparent that peOple had to
want to read and write before they could be taught success-
fully. They had to see why before they would want. Gradu-
ally the emphasis in programming shifted to recreation
activities.

The transition in social education methodology from
literacy campaigns to recreation activities was not a con-
crete policy decision. It was a gradual change wrought by
experience in the field. More people attended the recrea-
tion activities than attended the literacy classes at the cen-
ters. Recreation activities are enthusiastically received by
people to whom life offers little besides monotonous routine.
On all levels, social educationists are becoming increasingly
aware of the Opportunities for effective results which this
enthusiasm permits. At the social education centers, men
eagerly acknowledge that their favorite activities are the
bhajans (traditional folk songs) ; the women enjoy the sew-
ing circle; the children applaud volleyball; all love the
“cinema.”

How is recreation integrated with social education?
These participants do not realize that they receive more
than recreation. To them this learning is fun! But the folk
songs have been selected to recapture “the glory that was
India,” so as to reawaken that spirit in her new citizens.
The ladies learn not only to stitch but also to measure and

record, to avoid waste. To these women reading and writing
become useful tools. In villages torn by caste factionalism
the children learn the values of teamwork and cooperatior
through volleyball. Where water-borne diseases are a con
stant menace, the virtues of boiling water are demonstrated
to rapt audiences via the motion-picture screen.

Much academic argument can be foreseen. An eXperi
ment as ambitious in scope as social education will move
slowly, with uncertainty and many false steps. Existing
organizations everywhere can find many faults. Organizer
recreation movements outside India can dispute the claim:
of the program to any serious consideration, as “recreation’
educationists will dispute the relation of social educatior
to the existing body of education theory. Sociologists wil
dispute the calculability of success or failure of such a pro
gram. As social education develops it will have to resolv:
many of the controversies—or atrophy and disintegrate
But, like the development of social education itself, thi
resolution will be the Indian answer to an Indian problem

Social educationists have many problems of pressing im
portance. Pleas echo from all levels of field operation
Qualified people are needed to collect the games, folk dances
folk songs and folk tales of India for use in activities. A
present such collections are virtually non-existent. Scrip
writers and projection equipment are needed. Social educa
tion workers need not only these materials but also thi
training to utilize them effectively; and, not least, the monej
to support these projects and to attract more workers to th
field is needed.

This program is of potential fundamental importance i1
India and other nations which share her problem. But thi
movement is of significance to all who have an interest i'
social growth and recreation as a part of that social growtl
The phenomenon of a nation consciously attempting t
elevate its whole socio-economic structure by democrati
methods is completely new. The role of social catalyst whic-
recreation appears to fill is also new. For the future it create
possibilities of wider application; for the present it give
the profession increased dignity and responsibility. Sociz
education presents recreation with a demand. To Sllppl
that demand will require great courage, initiative, and er
durance. Such effort calls for encouragement, c00peratior
and support. Social educationists and recreation leader
everywhere will understand the reward of having a mar
eyes round, face Warm with recalled pleasure, say, “We i
our village would like more puppet shows—that last puppy
show was a very good one. It was about how we could buil
a good well. Do you know why you should build a god
well?” For him, and millions potentially like him, there

no doubt that, through social education with recreatio:
“fun is learning.” I

‘6 ‘
To make others happy’ except through liberating their powers and
engaging them 1n actIVIties that enlarge the meaning of life is to harm them

and to indulge ourselves under cover of exercising a special virtue. .

..To

foster conditions that widen the horizon of others and give them command

of their own powers, so that they can find their own happiness in their own
fashlon, is the way of ‘social’ action.”--~J01—1N DEWEY.

374

RECREATI

What Can Be Done
for the “Homebound Child?”

 

The above joyous teen-agers “belong”! They are among the homebound
boys and girls taking part in the program Sponsored jointly by the
New York City Federation of the Handicapped and Board of Education.

WHAT OF THE boy or girl who longs
for normal fun, and the compan-
[onship that goes along with it, and is
forced to spend years—or a lifetime—
3n crutches or in a wheelchair? Or
maybe, even more unhappily, forced by
affects of one of the crippling diseases,
such as cerebral palsy or chorea, to
give up the day-by-day pleasures of
school and playgrounds? Must he be
:ondemned to feel “out of things” for-
ever?
‘ Most of us in the rehabilitation field
ave been concerned about their situa-
ion for a long time. Educators have
een almost as equally concerned about
roblems that arise for boys or girls
ho have to stay at home for months
hile broken bones knit.

Here in New York City we think we
ave an answer which can be applied
n even the smallest community. When

e board of education set up its now
amous “school without a school build-

g” in 1919, it was because the epi-
emic of poliomyelitis had enormously

creased the numbers of children who

tould not attend school classes. From

 

R. COHEN is executive director of the

‘ ederation of the Handicapped, New
.- ork City.

. CTOBER 1956

the small beginning made that year,
with twenty substitute teachers assign-
ed to carry teaching to the “home-
bound,” the project has grown. Today
a staff of 237 licensed and Specially
trained men and women carry class-
room work into the homes of approxi-
mately two thousand boys and girls in
New York’s five boroughs.

Whether these children are out of
touch with their playmates for a matter
of months, or are permanently incapa-
citated by an emotional handicap or a
crippling disease, each and every child
longs passionately for one thing—to
“belong,” to have the assurance there
is a place for him, and that he can make
friends. Because, after all, they are
young, these children want and need
playmates. Bright or slow to learn,
adept manually or inept, resigned or
rebellious, their lack of companionship
and “fun” is the acute problem, whether
the boy or girl lives in a village or a
metropolis.

Three years ago a step toward solv-
ing this, at least partially, was made
by the launching of a joint project by
the New York Board of Education and
the Federation of the Handicapped.
(The latter, a non-profit organization,

was founded by and for disabled

, Milton Cohen

adults twenty-one years ago.) By happy
circumstance, Miss Grace E. Lee, act-
ing assistant administrative director of
the board’s Bureau of the Physically
Handicapped, had also been a board
member of the federation since it was
started by three amputees, determined
to get on their own feet. She knew that
one of them, Michael Bertero, deSpite
the fact that he has been legless for
more than a quarter-century, was an
expert cabinetmaker. For years, he has
headed classes for adults in woodwork
and ceramics for the federation’s own
members and clients.

Around this nucleus, therefore, there
emerged an entirely new facet of the
“school without a school building.”
Each Thursday throughout the school
year, a gay, normally boisterous crowd
of youngsters of high-school-age swarm
over the auditorium, the lounges, and,
most of all, the workshops of the federa-
tion building. From 9:00 A.M. to 3:00
PM. the four-story building rings to
healthy, happy laughter, the sound of
singing and musical instruments, ham-
mering, thumping, and, most of all, the
almost constant buzz of talk. For a
group of usually “homebound” young
people, this has become the highlight of
their week, the one time when they can

375

 

Teachers must have special qualifications
—s_vn1path_\', understanding, patience.

be sure of companions of their own
age, enjoying what they enoy. Because
each is disabled, all barriers are down.
There is no self-consciousness on the
part of Johnny, for instance, whose
cerebrallpalsied tongue makes him well-
nigh unintelligible except to his closest
friends, or Jenny, who is humpbacked
but who can fashion and tint a blue-
cloaked plaster Madonna as well as her
neighbor. All sing lustin while Arturo
plays the piano, though he has to pick
out the tunes with one hand. Morning
assemblies begin the day with singing, a
salute to the flag, and offer boys and
girls a chance to exchange news. After
this, they may choose the informal
classes they wish to attend. Lunch is a
social occasion, eaten together, with
everybody bringing his own food and
sharing it. Unobtrusively a teacher
may be schooling a child in good man-
ners. He is learning to “socialize,” per-
haps the most important gain of these
days for the withdrawn, lonely'child.
Boys and girls eligible for the one-
day special activity program are chosen
from among the high-school home-
bound pupils who are following a pro-
gram built around a vocational core.
They must be physically and emotion-
ally well enough to visit federation
headquarters once a week and have per-
mission of their doctors and parents.
This may suggest to the recreation
executive or program leader the possi-
bility of a similar “special day” at the
community center—with all staff mem~
hers present to contribute their services.
Children who are handicapped severely
enough to be “homebound” need al-
most indiy idual attention, and, because
of this. the number of children leaders
can handle may be small. Trained vol—
unteers can be immensely helpful.

Then, too, there is the problem of

376

transportation. Transportation in a
city like New York, with its vast dis-
tances, is a major problem. Some chil—
dren are brought by a teacher, or in
buses or cars provided by various local
philanthropic organizations, such as the
Cerebral Palsy Association. A few par-
ents bring their own children, and
sometimes their neighbors’, and they
usually help in supervising the children
during the day. An average of one
teacher for every two children is the
rule at the federation.

Leadership

Teachers of the homebound, it goes
without saying, must have special quali-
fications. Sympathy, understanding, an
infinite amount of patience and knowl-
edge of the limitations which each of
the handicaps impose are a sine qua
In addition, there are various
“in-service” training courses provided
by the organization, which prepare the
teacher for the special license he must
have and maintain. For example, after
the day’s sessions are over many teach-
ers remain for the 3:45 to 5:25 P.M.
class, directed in part by James H.
Evans, J r., head of the recreation pro-
gram of federation. In the catalogue
it is known as “Adaptations of Physi-
cal Activities for the Homebound.” In
less formal language, teachers are
taught how to conduct square and folk
dancing and games in forms which will
not be too difficult. Others may enter
the workshop on “Integration of Craft
Techniques with the Modern Curricu-
lum in Education of Physically Handi-
capped Children” or take a course on
making slipcovers, adapted to the abili-
ties of the home-bound, and so on.

It follows that many of the teachers
“double in brass.” Charles Johnston,
for instance, not only helps teach other
teachers how to make drapes and slip-
covers as the disabled must do it, but
teaches upholstery, woodwork, ceram-
ics, and enamelling on Thursdays to the
teen-agers. On other days he is a reg-
ular academic instructor in the homes
of children on his school calling list.

lie is also one of the staff members at
the rehabilitation camp for adults.

non.

Program

Once a year there is an exhibit in
the olhee of the Bureau for Physically

Handicapped Children, 110 Livingston
Street, Brooklyn, to show work of chil-
dren who are especially good in arts
and crafts. Here is the opportunity for
recreation not only to break down the
enforced isolation of the homebound
child, but to test pre-vocational skills.

For though Jim and Jane may be
“playing” at running the switchboard,
under the watchful eye of Tom Brown
(himself able to walk only with the aid
of two canes), or think it fun to help
run the elevator, boys and girls (and
their teachers) thus find out what they
can do. Since many of these children
must try eventually to earn their own
living, the fascination of a typewriter
for Mary, on which the keyboard is
made for a one-handed person, is more
than just a game.

The classes of the morning are fol-
lowed by lunch, always a gala affair.
Afternoon sessions emphasize group
participation. There may be moving
pictures, educational in nature or for
guidance purposes, or there may be re-
ports by pupils on projects they are
working on at home. There may be
“role-playing,” the technique of socio-
drama which offers release of hidden
tensions, or there may he talks on new
advances“ in astronomy or geology, or
in the world of politics. Whatever the
session is, the children themselves form

a vociferous part. They rehearse for

charades just as vigorously as for
Shakespeare and they sing “blues”
with as much ardor as they play Ping-
pong and skittles (even the wheelchair,”-
bound can do both). ;'

The program of carefully, though
subtly, guided play at the federation’s
headquarters is occasionally supple-
mented by outings. It may sound odd
to hear that a child who cannot go to
school can go to the theatre or circus
or even the rodeo.
though the opportunity occurs seldom
Occasionally amusement-hungry chil

  
 
 
  
 
     
   
  
 
 

But some can

dren may be taken by various organiza
tions to see Marcel Marceau, thefamou:
French “Charlie Chaplin,” or to Madi
son Square Garden to watch Ringling
Brothers’ marvels, or to Yankee Sta1
ium to see big league baseball. Whe
they can go, they are accompanied
experienced adults, and the conve,
ances used are comfortable buses.

The advantages to a handicapp

RECREATI

child of the federation program can be
summed us as follows:

1. Youngsters get out of their home  
Recreation Program

environment and have a chance to work
and play with other boys and girls.

2. The workshOps offer try-out op-
portunities which under the cloak of WORLD WIDE GAMES KIT contains a complete

set of recreation equipment for ages 6 and up. All

‘C 39 “ " 99
art and crafts or la ractice
S p y p games are constructed of durable hardwoods.

may some day offer placement and

earning Chances' The‘Kit includes the following 15 games: 

3. Pupils have a chance to tell a A. Active Floor Games C. Games of Skill

h ' 1 Box Hockey (Opens to 18x60in.) 2 Pommawonga (Indian)
group W at they, have been flomg at Folds into sturdy carrying case 2 Mexican Balero
home and show its relationshlp to a0- 3. Ancient Table Games ’ 2 pic.E.U.Nee
tivities at federation 1 gdi BlfarEiJ (African)) D P2 Bqnum Board
0 ' omo U apanese 0 U2: es

4" Group gludance teChnlgues can be l Chinese Friends 1 Hindu Pyramid Puzzle
used by the counselor, creating a class- 1 Korean Yoot ] Nine Block Puzzle
room atmosphere which often has an SPECIAL PRICE OF WORLD WIDE GAMES KIT _ $35.00

almost magical effect on the morale of (R03. Delaware, Ohio -- Shipping Weight 30 lbs.)

children whose horlzons are too often SEND YOUR ORDER

or request for catalog to:

WORLD WIDE GAMES

Delaware, Ohio

bounded by the sameness of home win-
dows and walls.

 

5. Students get to know a non-profit
agency which will help them get on
their own feet after graduation.

Finally, these all-day Thursday ses-
sions mean to every child who partici-
pates in them that, for once, and in a
wonderful way, he is a functioning part
of the world. He counts. l

 

THE COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA

Invites You to Join in Building One of the Finest
Mental Health Programs in the Nation

Adequate funds have been appropriated to fill all vacancies. Salary scales are equal

to or better than most. Professional direction and leadership are sound. All

appointments are being made on the basis of qualifications alone.

LOOK INTO THE OPPORTUNITIES PENNSYLVANIA
OFFERS YOU! BE A PART OF THIS EXCITING
DEMONSTRATION OF SOUND MENTAL HEALTH ACTION!

' For further information, write:

PROFESSIONAL RECRUITMENT CENTER

Department of Welfare Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Harrisburg, Pa.

 

OCTOBER 1956 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 377

 

//

    
 

A REPORTER’S NOTEBOOK

 

Park System Celebrates

Establishment Day ceremonies, mark-
ing the 166th anniversary of the Na-
tional Capital Park System in Washing-
ton, D. C., were held in July at the
Sylvan Theater on the Washington
Monument Grounds. In commemorat-
ing this anniversary, Secretary of the
Interior Fred A. Seaton announced a
$70,000,000 ten-year program to en-
hance the beauty of the nation’s Capi-
tal and provide more adequately for the
protection and enjoyment of its historic
shrines.

Dramatization of the “L’Enfant
Scene” from Paul Green’s symphonic
drama Faith of Our Fathers was a fea-
ture of the program. In an address,
National Park Service Director Con-
rad‘L. \Virth, the principal speaker,
stated:

“Immediate expediency, the saving
of a few dollars—what place have these
in our plans to hand on to the future
the world’s most beautiful city? They
are no substitute for vision and for
truly long-range planning which thinks
in terms of the long future. Who here
today would have the courage that
Washington displayed in laying out the
city on such broad and generous and
spacious lines? Let us look back into
our history for our inspiration, if we
must, but let us make no little plans. We

cannot, if we are to mect our responsi-
bility to the future. . . .

“Pride in their government, love of

the land, and faith in the American tra-
dition—these are the things the national

parks can give the people of America.
To assure them these products of na-

tional parks is more than an obligation,
It is a national necessity. It is a task

worthy of the highest measure of dedi-
cation.”

Seagoing Litterbugs, Beware!

A measure enabling New Jersey shore
municipalities to organize joint police
forces for the purpose of warding all
wagoing litterbugs has bCCome law.

378

Governor Robert B. Meyner signed
the bill which permits two or more com-
munities to create a special joint con-
stabulary to patrol waters ofic their
shores for sanitary and police purposes.
Each community contributes manpower
and equipment to watch for fishing
parties dumping trash over the side of
boats or bathers throwing litter into the
surf. The bill covers communities that
border on rivers and bays as well as the
ocean.

Memphis Wins Junior Olympics

    

In Tennessee, Commissioner of Con-
servation Jim Nance McCord (dark
suit) presents to Marion Hale, superin-
tendent of recreation in Memphis, the
handsome trophy his city won for scor-
ing the most points in telegraphic com-
petition with seventeen other cities in
the first annual Tennessee Junior Olym-
pics. At left is Jack Spore, president of
the Tennessee Recreation Society, which
sponsored the Olympics, and at right is
Lou Twardzik, recreation consultant for
the Tennessee State Parks Division.

The Olympics, held in connection
with National Recreation Month, drew
over fifteen thousand youngsters from

playgrounds and parks in eighteen
cities.

All American Youth Name Contest

Early this year, Modesto, California,
held an “accentuate the positive” youth
project which aroused considerable in-
terest in other cities, locally and across

the nation. The city council, “sick and
tired of hearing about that two per
cent,” sponsored a county-wide All
American Youth Name Contest to put
the spotlight on non-delinquents. Pur-
pose of the contest was to find a catchy,
appropriate title for the ninety-eight
per cent of today’s youth who are fine,
substantial citizens, and who receive,
for the most part, much less publicity
than do “problem children.”

Topping the competition of hundreds
of entries from students between eleven
and eighteen years of age, fourteen-
year-old Dianne Storch won sweepstakes
honors for her suggestion. Dianne

wrote:

“My choice for a name for teen-agers is
‘Hi-Fi’s.’ It is short and snappy. It is an ex-
pression we all know and understand, as we
love ‘hi-fi’ musical recordings. It is really
contemporary with our time. ‘Hi-fi’ is an ab-
breviation of high fidelity, and while it is
complimentary, it doesn’t sound ‘goody-goody’
enough to be embarrassing. ‘High’ refers to
our age level——junior high and high school.
‘Fidelity’ is defined as ‘loyalty, or faithful de-
votion to duty or to one’s obligations.’ It also
means ‘accuracy of reproduction.’ Most of us
would be happy to be reproductions of the
fine qualities that make our parents good citi-
zens. such as Honesty, Integrity, Faith. Indus-
try———the heritage upon which our country is
built. All that adds up to high fidelity and

should make any teen-ager proud to be called
a ‘Hi-Fi.’ ”

Other top prize winning titles were:
Juvenile 'Honorees, Topteens, Team-
Agers, and Coal-Cetters. Second prizes
were won for: Societeens, Keen Teens,
Beacons, Digniteen s, and Juvenile
Achievers.

Focus on Swimming for
Handicapped

An institute in Hartford—“New Hor-

izons in Swimming for the Handi--

capped”-—brought sharply into focus
the eleven community and five camp
swimming programs for the handi-
capped in Connecticut. One hundred
and fifty people representing four
states, eight colleges, numerous agen-
cies and hospitals gathered to learn
how to establish and improve swim-
ming programs for the disabled.
Several well-known speakers dis-
cussed: the rapid growth throughout
the nation in this special program area;
the necessity for multiple agency coop-
eration and the dire need for increased
attention to the in-pool-program for the
handicapped; the values of swimming
for those destined to a sedentary exist-
ence; and the responsibility municipal

f
t

J
i

i
l

RECREATION 1

recreation leaders should assume to-
ward the disabled members of their
community.

Copies of the institute proceedings
are available for twenty-five cents from
Frank Robinson, Program Secretary,
Connecticut Society for Crippled Chil-
dren and Adults, Inc., 740 Asylum Ave-

nue, Hartford, Connecticut.

Record-Breaking Budget

The unprecedented mushrooming of
Los Angeles County’s population since
World War II has presented a great
challenge in the field of parks and rec-
reation—a challenge being met by the
State of California and by Los Angeles
County with far-sighted planning and
financing.

As the county._rapidly approaches a
population of 6,000,000, the board of
supervisors is anticipating the needs of
its expanded citizenry by adopting a
record-breaking 1956-57 budget of
$15,500,000 for its department of parks
and recreation. While $15,500,000 is
being set aside from county government
sources, there will be an additional
$8,000,000 earmarked from the state
division of beaches and parks for land
acquisition of beaches and regional
parks in Los Angeles County.

Specifically, the budget would be ex-
pended as follows: capital improve-
ments, $5,500,000; local park land ac-
quisition, $950,000; regional park land
acquisition, $2,495,500; and operating
budget, $6,592,849.

“Operation Unity”

Many of the nation’s schools devoted
a portion of their auditorium and class-
room exercises on Citizenship Day, Sep-
tember 17, to “Operation Unity,” the
project to unite all Americans in estab-
lishing The American Museum of Im-
migration at the foot of the Statue of
Liberty.

The museum, which will complete the
Statue of Liberty National Monument,
will record for all time the contributions
of immigration to our American heri-
tage and will develop the essential theme
of the unity of the American people de-

ispite the diversity of their origins.

On October 28, seventieth birthday
of the Statue of Liberty, nationality,
fraternal, farm, veterans, and civic
groups will gather together for dinners

OCTOBER 1956

and other festivities in honor of Miss
Liberty and her museum, and to launch
the national public appeal for $5,000,-
000 to make the museum a reality.

Groups or individuals who wish to
participate in “Operation Unity” to es-
tablish the museum may send their con-
tribution in any amount directly to: The
American Museum of Immigration, Sta-
tue of Liberty, U. S. A.

Citations of merit will be sent to each
group which participates and the names

. of all contributors will be deposited in

the hall of records of the museum.

Fashions in Recreation

 

Twenty years have brought. many

changes in the recreation uniforms
worn by city recreation workers in
Louisville, Kentucky. Recreation in-
structor Margery Talbott (left) models
an exact duplicate of a uniform 'of the
thirties, while instructor Margery Sta-
ten (right) shows off the new solid
color Bermuda shorts recently approved
for wear by workers.

UNICEF Greeting Cards

The designs for this year’s United
Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF)
holiday greeting cards were donated by
three internationally-known artists—
Americans Saul Steinberg and Joseph
Low and Jamini Roy of India.

Saul Steinberg created the 1956 offi-
cial United Nations greeting card,
“Bridge To Peace,” a highly imagina-
tive concept of the world spanned by
bridges, uniting all civilization and cul-
tures.

Holiday mood around the world has
been captured by Joseph Low in a se-
ries of five cards called “Festive Times

99

in Many Lands. Each card portrays
festival time in a different country—
Italy, England, Bolivia, Thailand, and
Egth-

J amini Roy has donated two original
designs, examples of Indian folkpaint-
ing, with the self-descriptive titles,
“Masquerade in India” and “Maiden on
Horse.”

The cards came in boxes of ten cost-
ing $1.00 per box and may be ordered
by check or money order from the UN I-
CEF Greeting Card Fund, United Na-
tions, New York.

Mental Health Shangri-La

The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania
is on the way to becoming the Shangri-
La for professional people related in
any way to the field of mental health.

A recent appropriation by the legis-
lature assured the department of wel-
fare enough funds to undertake a thor-
ough overhauling and revamping of the
state’s entire mental health structure.
Existing salary scales have been adjust-
ed upward, and it is expected that a
large share of the appropriated funds
will be used to attract qualified person-
nel to fill the many vacancies in hospi-
tals and mental institutions. All appoint-
ments will be made on the basis of qual-
ifications alone, without regard to polit-
ical affiliations or state residence.

IN MEMORIAM

CHARLES W. DAVIS, director of recre-
ation and parks and physical education

in Berkeley, California, since 1929. Mr.
Davis held office in the California Rec-

reation Society, AAHPER, and received

numerous honors from these and many
other organizations, including a medal
from the National Recreation Associa-
tion in 1940 for his service to recreation
over a ten-year period.

MRS. JOHN D. JAMESON, National
Recreation Association Board member,
1938-1956, in Tucson, Arizona. Mrs.
Jameson had long been active in the
field of education and recreation, and
was particularly interested in the lei-
sure-time needs of children. She was
the daughter of the late Ella Strong
Denison of Denver, a pioneer worker
in the recreation field, who established
the Henry Strong Denison recreation
apprentice fellowships in memory of
her son.

379

 

MAN. THIS is the greatest!”
“\Vait until I tell the rest of the fellows about this,
they won’t believe it!”

Two teen-age servicemen from the armored training
center at Fort Knox, thirty-five miles out of Louisville, Ken-
lucky, were sitting in one of the swank rooms at the Henry
Watterson Hotel. They were beginning a week-end as the
guests of Louisville merchants and civil organizations.

Over and over again they expressed amazement at their
good fortune to be selected as “Kings for a Day”—a weekly
prize given through the Louisville Servicemen’s Center. For
twenty-four hours they would eat at the finest restaurants,
stay at one of the best hotels in a room complete with radio
and television, and see their choice of movies.

Robert Ruvolo of Paterson, New Jersey, and Robert Win-
chester of New Orleans were the lucky winners on the week-
end this spring when the Louisville Servicemen’s Center
was celebrating its fifteenth anniversary.

The hospitality these two men enjoyed is typical of the
generous, open-hearted, friendly welcome Louisville has
extended to servicemen since the firstdraftees began to
arrive in the city almost sixteen years ago. It was in Sep-
tember, 1940, that Mayor Shultz called together a group of
city officials and civic leaders and outlined the problem.
Andrew Broaddus, a prominent businessman and president
of the board of alderman, and Bill Moore, superintendent
of recreation, were in the group. The mayor pointed out
that thousands of draftees would be coming into an ex-
panded Fort Knox, and they naturally would be in and
around Louisville. What was the city going to do to show
the army and the men that they were welcome in Louisville?

Quickly, the people of Louisville and their officials gave
their answer. A mayor’s committee, headed by Andrew
Broaddus, tackled the problems of health, housing, and rec-
reation. A vacant building, erected some years before as
a home for the Knights of Columbus, was taken over and
established as the Louisville Servicemen’s Center.

The building included bowling alleys, snack bar, pool
and gameroom, gymnasium, auditorium and theatre, dress-
ing and locker rooms, and dormitory facilities for several
hundred. Additional dormitory facilities were provided
through a modernization plan completed by the Louisville
Board of Trade and the Retail Merchants Association.

So successful was the program that Mr. Broaddus was
invited to tell about it before a general session of the
National Recreation Congress in Baltimore in September
1941. “I cannot emphasize too strongly,” he told recrea-
tion ofIicials, “just how wholeheartedly we were backed
in this undertaking. I have been actively engaged in this
work for twelve months, and I have yet to talk to a man,
woman, or child in Louisville who is not willing and anxious
and ready to do anything within his power to assist in the
program we have set Up.”

What was the purpose of the servicemen’s center? Mr.
Broaddus said, “The main aim of our program is to intro-
duce the serviceman into the normal life of the community.”

During the war years, there were times when the center
served 39,000 men during a twenty-six-hour period. At
times as many as 3,500 men slept there in a single evening.

380

     

Refreshment tales and some of the 1,200 gests at the
15th birthday party of the Louisville Service Club,
which is supported by the local Red Feather campaign.

From 1941 to 1946 Louisville leaders gave hours of volun-
teer service at the center every week. Peeple like Luther
Stein, a prominent businessman, Neil Dalton of the Courier
Journal; Colgan Norman, insurance executive; and John
R. Lindsay, director of finance for the city, were among
those who helped to maintain the club’s motto, “The Service
Club never closes, and here the serviceman is always wel-
come.”

Fifteen years after it first Opened its doors, the Louisville
Service Club is still helping to provide a bridge between
the military and civilian community. The servicemen are
younger, there are not quite so many stationed at Fort Knox,
and there isn’t the excitement of a hot war to keep civilian
interest in the welfare of servicemen at a fever pitch. But
Louisville leaders know that youth in the service have time
on their hands and will use their leisure time more enjoy-
ably and profitably if they know they are as welcome in
Louisville as they are in their own “hometowns.”

Lt. Colonel Edmund J. Padgett, Fort Knox Special
Services Oflicer, believes that there is a greater need for the
club now than ever before, and adds, “Fort Knox is tre-
mendously indebted to the club for providing the men at
Knox with such a wonderful reception into the community.
Our men are assured of clean, wholesome fun; the club is
indispensable as a headquarters for the men on week-ends.”—

Both L. E. Pfeifer, the director, and Mrs. Gilbert Vick,
the senior hostess, attribute the success of the club to con-
tinued and consistent community support. The club was
incorporated originally as a non-profit organization. Over ‘
the years its board of directors has included the most civic-
minded people in Louisville. Membership on the board
means not recognition, but public service. The present
chairman of the board, Robert E. Hatton, and his wife are
present at many of the club dances and other activities,
serving refreshments and talking with the servicemen.

At the recent fifteenth birthday dance there was abundant

RECREATION

Their Hands

t‘

in Louisville

evidence of community cooperation. A beautiful cake was
provided by the baker’s association. Through the Louis-
ville Restaurant Association, local restaurant owners pro-
vided stacks of sandwiches, gallons of potato chips, pickles,
and ice“ cream and cakes. Not only did they prepare the
food, but they also served.

People, such as Ernest Luvisi, owner of the famed Luvisi
Italian Restaurant, were there to act as hosts. Volunteer
entertainers provided a floor show. Hostesses under the
direction of Mrs. Belva Wald danced with the servicemen,
played Ping-pong and table games, listened to recordings
and enjoyed the varied recreation activities available.

Churches, civic groups, veterans’ organizations and
women’s clubs regularly give volunteer service. Each Sun-
day a different organization provides the refreshments for
the Sunday afternoon'social. hour. For that part of the

 

Mayor Andrew

Service club boosters, left to right:
Broaddus, NRA’S Dave DuBois, Senior Hostess Sue
. Anne Vick and Brigadier General Edwin F. Fitch.

club’s fifteenth anniversary celebration held at Fort Knox,
over a hundred cakes were baked by church groups.

Andrew Broaddus now is the mayor of Louisville. He
recalls with pleasure his statement in 1942 when he said:
“I have talked to these boys by the hour, I have listened
to their ‘gripes’ and their praises, and in all this experience
I think I can truthfully say that at no time have I heard a
complaint from any man directly or indirectly concerning
the service club which we are operating. Because of the
appreciation expressed by these men for the service club,
no work that  have ever done in public life has given me
as much pleasure.”

A further measure of the place of the service club in
Louisville is the support given to it by the Community Chest.
About forty per cent of the funds for the operation of the
club come _from that Red Feather Agency. The balance of
the cost is met by income from rental charges on some parts
of the building and income from the bowling concession.
Both the city recreation department and the philharmonic

PCTOBER 1956

The civilian service club acts as a bridge be-
tween the military and local community life.

orchestra pay for the use of space in the building. The only
charges to servicemen are for dormitory space and soap
and towels.

The service club program is an important bridge between
civilian and military communities. There are other bridges,
and there is an abundance of fine recreation activity in the
civilian community. Servicemen and their families take
part in the outstanding programs of the city park and rec-
reation department, the Jefferson County recreation pro-
gram, and the cultural activities of the library and the
philharmonic orchestra.

A softball team from the WAC detachment at Fort Knox
takes part in the Louisville Girls’ League. Servicemen are
entered in the golden gloves boxing program, and a team
from Knox is entered in the city tennis league.

Tennis is a growing sport in Louisville where fifteen
thousand youngsters are taught to play by Dale Lawis,
tennis coach of the University of Indiana. Every youngster
-—from civilian or military family-can receive the finest
in tennis instruction.

Residents of Jefferson County, the area around Louis-
ville, have a fine recreation program operated by the Jeffer-
son Recreation Commission. The activities are many and
varied. One of the more spectacular events is a yearly trip
-—this year to Mexico City—for eighty of the outstanding
participants in the county-wide youth program.

Fifteen years after the Louisville Service Club was or-
ganized it’s still going strong. The servicemen are younger;
there’s no threat of imminent war; but Louisville knows
that youth in the service have time on their hands and that
the youngsters and the community will both be happier if
the community welcomes servicemen into community rec-
reation life. I

 

Proof of any birthday party is in the eating of the cake!
Mayor Broaddus cuts the anniversary cake with Preston
Kunz of Louisville Restaurant Association looking on.

This complete story was also featured in the June _29_ issue of the
NRA Defense Recreation Bulletin—one of the Assocmtlon’s defense

related services.

381

 

A New Pattern for Recreation

The First National Recreation Month
Helps Tell Our Story . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . DavidJ.DuBois

’ I hit: OBSERVANCE of National Recreation Month in hun- framing, were hand-lettered for each of the individuals and
dreds of cities and towns across the country this past clubs to be honored. Accompanying the certlficate was a
June helped tell the story of community recreation to hun- personal letter from Otto T. Mallery, chairman of the board

dreds of thousands. What’s more, these people represent of directors of the Association.

the opinion leaders who are key local boosters for the rec- The actual presentation of the awards was a highlight of
Teeth)" movement . the month in many cities and towns. In Maine, former

Newspaper Clippings: phOtographsa preelamatiorlsa letters, Governor Percival P. Baxter, who was cited for his gift of
and hunetihs tell some 0f the StorY° Local radio and TV. 193,254 acres of land for park purposes, received his award
programs: sen’iee Chlh speeehesa sermons: and the word'ef' at a meeting of the Portland Kiwanis Club. In attendance

mouth publicity can’t be illustrated, but it was there. were the mayor and other prominent local Ogieials.
The total impact of National Recreation Month varied

from community to community. Some places like Durham,
North Carolina, and Albany, Georgia, went all out.

One recreation superintendent wrote: “I am proud to say
that our city of 25,000 population spent over $500 for the
promotion of recreation during National‘Recreation Month.
In addition to the newspaper promotion, numerous tele-
vision and radio programs were conducted by the recreation
stafl.. Park and pool programs were especially set up to
emphasize the month of June. All in all, I think our city is
finally realizing the value of recreation.”

Governors” proclamations and mayors’ proclamations
helped to give status to local programs. Newspaper edito-

Cited in New Orleans for his contribution to the recrea-
tion movement, Lester J. Lautenschlaeger has been the
guiding force for the New Orleans Department of Recrea-
tion. The award was made in a special ceremony in the
oflice of Mayor deLesseps S. Morrison. Harold Van Ars-
dale, NRA district representative, participated also.

On the recommendation of the Washington State Rec-
reation Society, Len Berryman, an engineer working for
the U.S. Corps of Engineers, was cited for his leadership in
developing a playfield in Bridgeport, a new community
housing government employees and construction workers
on the Chief Joseph Dam project. Presentation of the award

rials frequently commented on the importance of recreation {V288 Eade 8: 3.1)“? Of the dedicatlon of the dam on J [.1116
and the value of the local community recreation program. ' ter a e mane“ address hY Hal‘Old Stassen, speaking

The Atchinson, Kansas, Globe said editorially: “This is for PreSident Eisenhower’ the award was presented to Mr'

National Recreation Month and Mayor A. C. Ferrell has Berryman by Mrs' RUth E' Peeler’ NRA board member

from Wa_shington.

signed a proclamation urging observance of it locally. . . .

“Atehinson folks, with Shorter working hours and new Recognition of professional recreation officials was high-
found leisure, are discovering the importance of wholesome lighted by some local ageneies In Durham: North caro'
recreation. Opportunities provided locally are abundant.” lina’ a “C' R' Weed DaY” was the Climax to a mammOth

National Recreation Month was tied closely to two major recreation month which featured a major parade, the award
events in the local communities. One was the opening of Of NRA Certificates: and manY Special eVentS- C- R- WOOda
the playgrounds and other summer facilities and services; for thirty Years superintendent 0f recreation in Durham:
and the proclamation by the mayor and extensive radio, was honored by his fellow Citizens-

TV and newspaper publicity were used widely. The other Governors and United States Senators were informed of :
important event was the recognition of community leaders the awards to be made to citizens in their states. Governors
and civic clubs and organizations who had made outstand- like Robert B. Meyner of New Jersey sent their congratula- l

ing contributions to the local recreation movement. National tions to the individuals named. Senators like Margaret

Recreation Month oll'cred unique opportunity to single out Chase Smith of Maine wrote letters of congratulations and

these citizens whose support of the recreation program de- entered a Statement complimenting those Cited in the COR-

served spccml honor. gressional Record.
9 o -
Nominations for awards were made by the alliliate mem-

ber agencies of the National Recreation Association. Attrac-
tiver designed certificates of appreciation, suitable for

National Recreation Month now gives recreation agencies .1
and leaders a planned national event to which they can tie '
local publicity and promotion. National coordination of
governors’ proclamations, news releases, and local publicity
materials all help to give impact to the observance. I

~-—— 7——

Mtt. 1): Bots is head oft/1e NRA Public Information Service.

 

382
RECREATION

 

 

REVISED
H I   Gives You Voluan

Suggestions, Can Save You Expensive Unnecessary Wor

  

Complete instructions for laying out, marking, and finish
ing. It's up-to-date, with all rule changes, including nev

7dr!“  766% Wow
to Give Your Gym Floor TROPHY

uFinis'h {0-, Champions]! wide free throw lanes. Also gives lining instructions to
COACHES lIKE "TROPHY" FLOORS— other popular indoor sports. Every coach should have
:zgm:§:n”s',:§:' (“tiff'gl'g‘f “’“d‘. ‘""“°‘_' this Free Guide. If you're changing over to the wide lane
sitALE§:_hI.IIIE_ THEM -for sure-touted Hillyard can show you how to re-mark your court Withou
spicnnon's "LIKE THEM—tar no- re—finishing the entire floor!

glare, light color which helps them-see
plays clearly.

ADMINISTRATORS I AND CUSTODI-

 

  THEM—tar extra long wear I-
and ease at maintenance. -' -
Now You Can- Afford the Best! TROPHY I  St Joseph Mo“
gun“; a”- °lh°i.l'"i‘l.'es. by mare lhan I C] Please send me new Coach's Folder on Gym Floor finishing, layout
ta l—cuts lobar In tInIshrng and malnte- , .
nance by one-half! , ' ' I and mall'ka-
' CI Please have your nearby Hillyard "Maintaineer”®, trained floor ex-
pert, advise me the proper way to change my court over to new wide
I lane markings.
I Name ..................................................................... ..‘ ............................... “a...
I Institution ...................................................................................................... ..
I Address ........................................................................................................ ..
San Jose, Calif. Passaic' N_,J. I  oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo coo ......................... .- State .................................. u

Branches in Principal Cities

r.
|
I
I
I
|
I
I
|
|
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
l
I
I

CD
on

OCTOBER 1956 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

National Recreation Montf

  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

Civic leaders received National Recreation Association citations ft
their contributions to recreation. Lester J. Lautenschlaeger (lef
is the “dollar-a-year” director of the New Orleans Department 1
Recreation. Scott Temple (center), Downey, California, and h
wife, Faith, helped to develop a park project during twelve years t
recreation service. Karl Koepplinger (right), Oak Park, Michiga
businessman, made a recreation area available to local group

W/V
Recreation Volunteer

By Unilld Pr-u rtanued to develop the plum-Id
The men In the Arm) say (on‘ Illh e new youth center. I 1900
lll‘lN‘ should volunteer for In} toot slu area. and more swings

thing but apparently tmt tradmon “*3 "I" With"! 0H "II! WWI
doem't apply to I tmllen cm '"HI'I! POD' Wot?“

Names In The New JANET“ MX

       
   
        
   
  
 
   
 
   
     
  
 

 
 

plane I Now the .3; m- 0
h. Forty live )eer old Len Bern "tangy-at"

 
 
 
 

re

I up no! I M 9m. 1' 1

\S ev I!" been u out I-
I.“ 939! “me tu- mm L”? TM.“

n
I“0 13°“, onto h! 5"“ ‘d the U

te t' l-
_ at younil page“ scene when mun _ u. youngs

"I mm
pawl: Titre-non "‘ your m
r

  
   
 

. .“"IG.
' In: ""0""

so! nr“‘”

intionnl Recreation Month was
rolled by governors and mayors

nproclunmtionnnmlstatements. grOWing importance and SUP-

port for recreation was urged.

19.4
RECREATION

Wins the Nation

 

\nother Downey citizen receiving an award, Mrs. Mignon Caughran
(left), helped organize a local park and recreation district, is pres-
dent of its board. Henry Doorly (center) set up a $50,000 trust
Fund for parks and playgrounds in Omaha, Nebraska, started by
Iis newspaper, the World-Herald. Dr. Lambert 0. Clark (right)
Jioneered for adequate public recreation in Lafayette, Louisiana,
lelped.secure a community center and to pass two bond issues.

 

Citizen Action for Recreation Honored

“a

Right:

Mrs. Walter Taylor Marvin receives her
citation from NRA’S J. W. Faust for her
long-term efforts, ever since 1917, to de-
velop a year-round public recreatiOn pro-
gram in New Brunswick, New Jersey.

  
     

 f In
Governor roc arms

Spe::o| Observanc

IEFFlilISON ('ETY ! —
' -""III \I Unnm-III radar mun“
‘ mnm June I. "SIIIJI-l'l\ I
mII urged “tun-trams m -m'
strk :Ind Illh’lhll’d an 'i‘-ll I.-

I. I The week of l--‘*I- n 2 Ln
Innated "Vow tilury for old G:
“at-k." a perm! m w ch
III alt-4mm: plants "IIIII' nt' red
‘ll'dl‘l Amt-nun flan: :rre

  
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
       
    
      
      
         
   
 
    
       
  

tn anotht'r prhl'lazn.nl"n he
ltre rnntttlt. nl "rl'e us -I! .l-

- 4: Emmy] Ilccreauun m
.u-

    
 
 

is“! . -
cs N, :1 sum I ..n “I ‘ " "mu?!

I 554.940 '5‘“, .n I“

 S.D. Locke Named
For National Honor

1. Atoms-Inca and improIt-men

 
        
     
  
 
  
  

 
 

‘l'lU
adv-red over a pa
ltemple of Reno. ynung nudRmrunlm

Iormer members of the Reno

‘ Olnllusrt l1 wet? IIII'GenlBIl wllh HIV-“ll
I. ll
I'GI [Itunth In “"nl'il’ H'H'IHOEIQ“ I”: a

meeting la“ mgm. ates of uPl’l'l‘l'l‘nlun

 
  

“HI-um: D L

    

 
 
 
 

  
    
   
   
    
 
    
 
  

   
 
      
  
 
  
 

  
 

I arr-as.
. ‘ l . . k . Islalld' of IIK and revere-Hon. I I I.
I . J” "Wis “it, til: 'a‘l..lTu§;mv'm spun tum-st "1 "1' .ni‘mm The *t‘tecmluitrifzuletton of citnil‘m
Rigel-2:“! -. r r‘ .- .u-m. m|lt ’0' I..L|mit_n_nr: nlt-vmiiidl‘; ‘ anti aet‘ttmvlln“ 1 Recreation 55,0:
 113‘ ‘r '- "LH‘urhh ' Ini“-‘i.|Ji.“-‘|“II I-I’t'I' m didn‘t :1“ slant 0“‘ . -
I ‘t .- II I I" " ‘ ,‘ I
H - - l . [2 I... a, .mnn- u-I-
fl .5 d
“tinnedikil’n he 1‘, II .Iv .
s the “ Ie ‘ . c Past. and .
‘35 00‘ mm I'I . I (‘e
m0 m“ . . I. - active m
w ‘cco . ‘ ‘ (bl |‘I'I‘I ll ‘ t cu-uggirslzngrent (1231 I0 lh‘
“nun-31:0 in t-I‘ \-~n “'1 “11-” .mmmnnli)‘ Hm
“I  week 9  ‘1 \' I I raft“ 0 ' na‘ion bourll.
0 ‘ ‘11'  .-.m|. m I U: we rec Uumlo
“9  ‘\ i u... I II var-“Kl an the years 1’ .
m ‘- ‘uon m. I n t . ramo enterprn-IES l
are . . mutune .
d h ...t In: \I III - m ark and
“01- “'9 nntm “l' connection V‘ p rah-m B -
H w? “i (09" ’3, ~ '1" ent. slums" .
‘5 o I . . . “- nth-r .II '-
we!“ was ..
e 9‘ . u . -
[I V’I‘ll III ll , I “I In“ I I  
1". ,1“ .ul H I _ . tor. r0 ll. I -
tum I‘M"! "A? W -" "“" ‘" 13 3' not, pfnr belle .m'on 

hich work-i
geoplc of all seen. I
standards an the ma

rks. playgrounds ant

..t.-I- «It! and
. ...\l Rug”,

GIVOI'I Notional
Citations

In magnum
at that -
Itaumm: rontrlbut’ton to (2:111:11:-

   

Ila "II “I‘M "

Him I““‘“" "L—

 

     

I
EmlJ‘ has hot“! 1 member -

' ' onet
I Mtd III Paul. I I'Imn'IhN
he 3‘ :1 '|.".:|'n .Illtl m [Ilf‘l

    

  
         
     
      
         
  

“n”. An“ d "“3‘ "Hanan Hw-
. 'I' In“. llr Ila: it“ . m R I "10th M
m m ‘nrM'IIIII‘I -\ "|I' n""""""°n f I] F "1° RH’TI‘OIIOII Comm-.0“
tip-1| I I I .- :qIIIII "III III ml“ cemnc-
“"‘mhuw U ' Iltnnld haven . ,1 a . ton and Lam-q ol
Since {taxation ‘ («ll-I‘m“ [mm m! Nathan-l Rm.
\ ‘50“ 'ns 01.3mm Inn \wu-Intmn last mam I1.

Hie! with | WWI": at the Commmmn

of comm!“ . J 'I‘he- .
mmnhasmcn‘n mm. ’ “mud” PM Low

 
 

 
   

colehrmod "1"." h I
n": Jun. ‘ II. Mam.

OCTOBER 1956

 

 

44 STATES PARTICIPATE IN
NATIONAL RECREATION MONTH

Alabama l Nebraska
Arizona Nevada
Arkansas u New Hampshire
California I New Jersey
Colorado New Mexico
Connecticut New York
Delaware North Carolina
Florida Ohio

Georgia Oklahoma
Illinois Oregon
Indiana Pennsylvania
Iowa Rhode Island
Kansas South Carolina
Kentucky Tennessee
Louisiana Texas

Maine Utah
Maryland Vermont
Massachusetts Virginia
Michigan Washington
Minnesota West Virginia
Mississippi Wisconsin
Missouri Wyoming

 

 

Len Berryman, U. S. Corps of Engineet
receives citation from Mrs. Ruth Peels
NRA board member, for organizing
recreation area and association in tl
Chief Joseph Dam area, Washingto

_ .. ‘ -—-———-:——

T_ I .. ‘ ‘ I ...
. 9“ “Nu.  I
./

Nathan Mallison (center) presents NR
certificates to (left to right) James ]
Harrison, Harry Kicliter, Mrs. Marc:
Chaney and Broward Poppell as well .'
to civic clubs in Fort Pierce, Florid

3E

 

How to chill your guests with sea-
sonal horrors.’ These ideas are
adaptable to all groups— public
recreation, clubs, churches, inclus-
tries, and for home celebrations.

The Party Theme

Effective decorations add immeasur-
ably to the atmosphere of the Hallow-
sen party and serve to set the stage for
the entertainment to come. Many
themes are appropriate and, by com-
bining flameproofed crepe paper and
cardboard with plenty of ingenuity and
imagination, the party room may be
transformed into a barn at harvest time,
a gypsy caravan, a hobo jungle, a pirate
den, a witch’s cavern, or a flying saucer
waiting for passengers from Mars,
Venus, or outer space.

The traditional Halloween theme,
with ghosts, witches and skeletons, will
probably always be the favorite. When
the guests are to be small children, the
decorations for a traditional party
should feature jack-o-lanterns, scare-
crows, and black cats; at parties for
teen-agers and adults, they may be the
most fearsome that the host and hostess,
or the decorating committee, can con-
coct. Twisted branches cut from black
cardboard, with owls roosting on them,
might adorn the walls; ghosts, goblins,
witches and skeletons will lurk in cor-
ners; bats and spiders will hang above
windows and doors; a spider web made

 

' From Planning for Halloween, prepared
for the National Recreation Association by
Muriel E. McCann. This publication is filled
with Halloween suggestions for large or small

groups, and for community-wide celebrations.
Available for 3.65.

386

of thread, stretched across the fireplace,
with a great furry tarantula in the cen-
ter, would add a charming touch to the

decorative effect. The whole scene
should be illuminated only by a dim
and ghostly glow.

Greeting the Guests

The keynote for a really spooky party
can be established by arranging the
door through which the guests will en-
ter in such a way that it swings open
apparently unaided. This can be done
by taping the latch in the open position
with adhesive tape and attaching a rope
to the knob on the inside. When the
doorbell rings, the person attending the
door pulls on the rope, the door swings
open, and the attendant is concealed
behind it.

Another startling effect can be
achieved by having the guests enter a
dimly lighted hall, where they are con-
fronted by a ghost who towers above
them and then suddenly shrinks to more
normal size and extends a clammy hand
(a rubber glove filled with ice or wet
sand) for them to shake. The ghost is
draped in white sheets and the change
in size is effected by having him hold
a padded broomstick with a sheet over
it, this sheet covering the operator’s
head as well as the broomstick. When
he raises the stick, he appears to be
seven or eight feet tall; When the stick
is lowered, the ghost suddenly grows
shorter. After shaking hands with each
guest, the ghost groans and points to
the room where the party festivities are

to be held.

If the arriving guests are to be re-

duced to a state of complete demoraliza-
tion, they might be greeted by a head-
less ghost. This apparition is contrived
by nailing two padded coat hangers
(with the hook section removed) to a
broomstick. A shirt is then arranged
on the hangers, and a sheet with a
round hole cut in the center is draped
over shirt and hangers in such away
that the collar of the shirt protrudes
through the hole. The edge of the hole
and of the collar can be tastefully
smeared with reddish-brown paint. The
individual who is to impersonate the
headless ghost holds the broomstick so
that the hangers are just above his head
and the sheet covers him; if he is tall
it may be necessary to drape another
sheet around his shoulders so that his
feet will be hidden. This gory spectre
is guaranteed to impress even the most
confirmed skeptic!

The Chamber of Horrors

No Halloween party for youngsters
eleven to fourteen would be complete
without a “Chamber of Horrors” or
“Tunnel of Terror.” Younger children
will enjoy a modified version of the
horror chamber, but none of them
should be urged to go through it if they
seem to be unwilling or timid.

A cellar is the ideal location for the
chamber if the party is held in a private
home; in a school or recreation build-
ing, the gymnasium may be used for
this purpose. Any large room with
plenty of open space will do, provided
it can be made pitch dark—the whole

effect depends upon the total absence
of light.

RECREATION

The route is laid out by stringing a
0pc around the room, either waist-high
r overhead, to which the victims will
ling as they feel their way through the
arkness. By doubling back and forth
cross the available space, a surpris-
rigly long trail can be laid in the aver-
ge cellar. Adults with flashlights
hould be stationed at strategic points
long the path, to keep the victims mov-
ng and to prevent “traflic' jams.” If the
lashlights are covered with red or yel-
)W tissue paper, they will give a soft
low that will enable the guard to see
that the difficulty is and to eliminate
t without throwing so“ much light on
he scene that the effect is spoiled. Of
ourse, the flashlights will not be turned
in unless it is absolutely necessary.

Safety should be a prime considera-
ion when laying out the trail, and when
t has been set up, several adults should
;0 over it under the same conditions
hat will prevail during the party. Any
tortion of the path that, in their opin-
on, might be a real safety hazard
hould be removed.

The horrors that the victim encoun-
ers on his passage through the cham-
ner may be many and varied. Among
he objects that might be suspended
)verhead: ice cubes in a mesh shop-
ving bag, strips of tissue paper, lengths
If wet yarn, pieces of fur, a wet blanket,
1nd a piece of raw liver. Along the side
)f the path are ghosts, skeletons, bats,
kulls, spiders, and any imaginary
nonsters the creatures of the chamber
nay create—all painted with phOSphor-
:scent paint or seen only in a dim and
:erie light. Ordinary light bulbs can be
.hielded with varying thicknesses of
:olored paper to provide just the de-
.ired amount of illumination; but, for
safety’s sake, the shielding should be so
Irranged that the paper cannot come
nto actual contact with the bulb. Where
)lenty of space is available, skeletons
nay be seated on thrones or ensconced
n coffins.

Underfoot are strewn tin cans, pil-
ows, cornstalks, chains, and “squawk-
ars” that produce a loud and discon-
:erting noise when stepped on.

If possible, the trail should lead into
1 tunnel through which the victims
rnust crawl on hands and knees. Ghostly
voices echoing through the tunnel (pro-
duced by one of the guards moaning

OCTOBER 1956

through a megaphone or length of gar-
den hose) will add to the spookiness of
this part of the journey.

Sound effects should not be neglect-
ed. The blast of a horn or screech of a
siren is doubly startling when it is heard
in a comparatively confined space. The
howl of a wolf, the roar of a lion or
tiger, eerie cries, eXplosions, and many
other FapprOpriate noises can all be
found on sound effect records. Local
music shops may carry or have listings
of sound effect records.

The noises should be intermittent
rather than continuous. A sudden loud
noise is much more disconcerting than
a prolonged uproar, to which the ear
eventually becomes accustomed. The

construction of a chamber of horrors is
impractical, the party room may be
darkened and a gruesome tale told of
the death of Mr. X. To illustrate the
ghastliness of his demise, the parts of
the deceased are passed around as the
story progresses. A damp rubber glove
stuffed with sand is his hand, spools his
vertebrae, peeled white grapes his
eyes, macaroni his windpipe, a' wet
sponge his brain, and so on. The story
should be prepared and memorized well
in advance, so that the narrator can
make it sufficiently horrifying to send
a cold chill down the Spine of every list-
ener. Needless to say, this story should
not be a part of the program when the
guests are small children!

 

same is true of lights; bright lights
flashing suddenly are doubly effective
because they make the ensuing darkness
seem even blacker than before, but if
the eye has time to adjust to them, the
trail is revealed as merely a length of
rope and a few props—and all the fun
is spoiled.

The chamber of horrors may also ap-
peal to (or perhaps “offend” would be
a more accurate word) the sense of
smell. A ghost may suddenly thrust an
unpleasant-smelling s u b st a n c e under
the nose of the victim. Large paper or
cardboard flowers can be placed in
bowls beside the path, with placards
reading “Smell Me’iattached to them.
The center of each deceptively attrac-
tive flower might be a clove of garlic, a
small piece of one of the more odorous
cheeses, or it might be coated with liver
of sulphur. Don’t overdo it—the object
is to repel the guest momentarily, not
to incapacitate him for the rest of the
evening!

For the end of the trail, a witch stir-
ring a seething caldron is an excellent
effect. The witch may offer a long
handled spoon containing unsweetened
lemon juice or mild vinegar for the vic-
tim to taste as he leaves the chamber.

The Death of Mr. X
When the guests are adults, or if the

Blueheard’s Den

This pleasant retreat may be a part
of the, chamber of horrors or a separate
feature set up in an alcove or small
room. The surroundings should be as
dismal-and gloomy as possible. The
principal feature of the den is a sheet
with seven holes cut in it, through
which are thrust the heads of seven
girls. Each one’s hair is drawn up on
top of her head and tied with a rope,
the other end of which is secured at
some point overhead, so that the effect
is that of seven severed heads hanging
by the hair. The sheet may be daubed
with reddish-brown paint where it
comes in contact with the neck of each
girl. The faces should be deathly pale

u—a dim green light will help to give this
effect. Since it will'be difficult for the
murdered wives to look pr0perly dead
for any length of time, Bluebeard’s den
might be in complete darkness when the
guests are first ushered into it. When
they have all entered, the green light is
turned on and the tableau can be seen
for a few seconds, after which the light
fades and the den is again in total dark-
ness.

This feature should be presented
early in the evening, so that Bluebeard’s
wives will be free to enjoy most of the
party. I

387

 

When they can’t come to us—we go to them!

Ann Johnston

The phone rang in the Norfolk Rec-
creation Bureau about two years ago
and the caller requested someone visit
the home of a paraplegic veteran to
teach him crafts. With regret, it was
necessary to explain that, owing to the
rapid growth of the recreation program,
the limited arts-and-crafts staff had dif-
ficulty in answering the demands in the
centers and on the playground, without
including visits to individuals in pri-
vate homes. The recreation bureau
staff then called several other sources
to see if referral of this request could
be made but was unable to locate an
agency offering this service.

It could not be said that such re-
quests occurred frequently; however,
this was not the first time a call for rec-
reation activities for homebound per-

'— ——-—-r-__— -‘uzrv' ‘-'--II-' V...

MR5. JOHNSTON is supervisor of play-
ground: and centers in 'Vorfolk Va.

388

 

Handicrafters volunteer visits Roger Williams
to help him with work on a coloring progect.

at, J I,£HOUSANDS of persons use the facilities and enjoy the programs of a rec-

we:

reation department, but what about those who can’t come to us? I f
“recreation is for everybody,” then how can the homebound get their share?
During emergencies, such as in the big polio epidemics of the past (for-
ever past, we hope), recreation departments rose to the occasion in a most
spectacular and heart-warming manner. Sometimes in everyday living,
however, such concerns are “out-of-sight, out-of-mind.” Perhaps this ac-
count of how the Norfolk, Virginia, Recreation Bureau accepted the chal-
lenge will spur other departments to explorethe possibilities of bringing

recreation to the homebound.

sons had been received. Usually the
staff suggested some crafts or other
forms of entertainment which could be
pursued in the home; however, it was
debatable whether the suggested proj-
ects were tried and carried to comple-
tion without the assistance of trained
leadership to teach correct methods and
to inspire.

From time to time conferences were
requested and held with such groups as
the volunteer representatives of the
local muscular dystrophy organization.
This group had established a clinic, and
most medical needs were being met, but
volunteers in periodic visits to the
homes had seen the ever-present need
for occupying victims’ minds with some
activity. Suggestions were again made
and received with grateful apprecia-
tion; but later it was found that, be-
cause of the volunteers’ limited knowl-
edge of the craft field, these could only

be carried out to a restricted degree.

It was a recognized fact that the
Norfolk Recreation Bureau had an ex-
tensive, well-organized arts and crafts
program under the supervision of Sue
Rice. Fortunately, in this special field
where frequent staff turnover is not un-
usual, Norfolk had had the services of
this experienced crafts supervisor for
a period of years, and the program at
the recreation centers and playgrounds,
for both children and adults, had be-
come a solid and far-reaching part of
the over-all recreation picture.

Why, then, since we had the know-
how, was there not some way to get it to
this group of individuals who could not
attend public centers because of physi-
cal handicaps? A plan was tried, and
though it is still small in comparison to
what can be accomplished, after a two-
year period it is growing constantly
and requests, such as the one mentioned

RECREATION

 

It the beginning of this article, often
:an be given practical assistance.

In the spring of 1954, the recreation
)ureau called together representatives
)f various medical agencies, and at the
neeting the great need for this service
vas verified. In the fall of that year a
:ourse, entitled “Share a Craft,” was
)ffered. Through publicity by local
lewspapers and radio and television
stations it was brought to the public’s
lttention that Norfolk needed trained
rolunteers to visit homes of physically
landicapped persons to teach crafts and“
)ring them other forms of recreation.
Jnder the direction of Sue Rice, spe-
:ialists in basketry and leathercraft
aught a six-week course. One of the
.pecialists was a trained occupational
herapist .who, with her professional
)ackground, was qualified to give in-
'ormation on some of the psychologi-
:al problems encountered in working
vith the physically handicapped.

The recreation bureau assumed all
:ost of instructors and supplies for the
:ourse, and the only requirement asked
)f the volunteers was that they give
iome time to training the physically
landicapped upon completion of the
:ourse. Vernon Ridgwell, superintend-
:nt of the recreation bureau, stated that
1e felt the course had value not only in
he hope for end results, but also be-
:ause it would serve as a source of rec-
'eation to those taking it. A total of
wenty-two persons registered for the
fourse and eighteen finished.

FCTOBER 1956

Virginia Cherry, right, learns basket weaving aided by
club member. Children eagerly look forward to visits.

 

These eighteen formed the core of the
group now known as the Handicrafters
Club. Much of the success of the or-
ganization has been owing to the able
volunteer efforts of Mrs. Eleanor Ragan,
who previously had done volunteer
work with the muscular dystrophy or-
ganization. As president of the club
for the past two years, she has given un-
limited time to the project and, through
her perseverance and brilliant person-
ality, has inspired the interest of many.

Throughout the year the club meets
bimonthly for business purposes, ex-
change of ideas, and further training.
The recreation bureau furnished a
room in the Ocean View Recreation
Center as a meeting place and serves in
an advisory capacity. Other training
courses have been given this group by
the recreation bureau in weaving, plas-
ter-of-Paris figurine and plaque paint-
ing, shellcraft, and holiday and chil-

dren’s crafts. Members of the group”

who have a pet craft often teach it to
fellow handcrafters as was done at the
Christmas season with candle and cor-
sage making.

Now that the existence of this volun-
teer group has become well known in
the area, there are frequently more re-
quests for help .than can be answered
immediately. At present there are
twenty-six members working in the
homes of thirty patients. a

The group realizes its limitations and
has, in some instances, had to turn

down assistance to individuals who

 

' ' ' a i ’

  

t a. "
“kahuwk  mm‘ M

 

3* m .

Members enjoy craft period at bimonthly meeting and
learn to assist the children with simple craft projects.

would require the attention of trained
occupational therapists. The president
of the club pays a preliminary, visit to
each person requesting the service and
secures the approval of the patient’s
doctor before a volunteer is assigned.

The work has broadened from teach-
ing crafts to include reading, develop-
ment of indoor gardens, playing quiet
games, and just friendly conversational
visits. For the handicapped, results
have varied. There is a teen-age boy
confined to a wheelchair who has turn-
ed leather craft into a money-making
project with his wallets and belts in
great demand; and there is a young
child who looks forward to a weekly
visit just for the fun of doing simple
construction-paper craft.

Finances for supplies and tools for
the work of the club are not a problem.
Some patients are able to buy their own
materials while others are purchased
from volunteer donations by interested
groups and individuals who recognize
the value of the work being done. The

Handicrafters Club also holds benefit

card parties to raise money.

The spirit of this group of volunteers
has steadfastly
probably because of the purpose of the
work involved. Visitors to a meeting
of the Handicrafters Club quickly sense
an atmOSphere of sincere and lively in-
terest as they listen to enthusiastic
members discuss an activity they have
shared with one less fortunate. I

remained excellent,

389

How To Do IT,”

390

b WWW

 

W

TOOLS and MATEPJ ALS

Bamboo //"/on9 and / "a’/&?mefer~
if in c/7 dr/'//~ Java/from ajggaare and
f/of fi/es - coping oaw- (on? sfopper. I

 

 

3. Make cork piece.
.4 .573 f/of area 7% inc/7 wide and calf

cork sfopper fo 79'7‘ mow‘bp/‘ece.

a“ ' ” «Q Cw
_>‘ ‘3- F— . fV/afar v (’orkp/éce 79%o’fomouf/y/Pre.

8. Leavejl a’fomefer of end afp/pe ~ Hi“ i
I
4.

caf¢pofnf(a) f6 remove :ecfzon (o. "
4.Make wndow'; 6 
April/73; hole 4‘ 190m endgf’pq'oe. $5 hole

6. 579 recfonya/or Iva/9,33- Lg:

5.Make window —5il|.
AJ/anf back edge of (who/ow win? file.

2. Make mou+h piece .
AC'uz‘ one-half way fhrougb .

bamboo $0M from end.

QT;

\

  

 
 
  
      

SIDE. VIEW
CROSS SECTION

6. Make wind passage.
A . F/Ye passage 324 "deep ono’é "w/b’e lbs/Ho ,o/Joe 75am moo of moufbp/E’z'e
#2: window. (777/: passage I2: some wx‘o’f/p o: wfno’ow).

——-r ~— —.-—— -—o

7 Drill six ho\es (see whom/hiyond one hole on ofher side oppos‘rlé hole one.

 

RECREATION

Move Your
Archery Range
Indoors

James A. Peterson

The story of how Emporia, Kansas,
took advantage of a suggestion from
two of its citizens and made it into a
community activity enjoyed by more
people than ever seemed possible.

WILL YOU help us set up an indoor archery range?” Two
members of the Emporia Archery Club, Jesse Burch
and Everett Grimes, approached the recreation commission
early in the fall of 1954 and proposed this question. These
archery enthusiasts suggested that if the city recreation com-
mission would provide adequate space indoors, and furnish
some financial assistance, their club would build and operate
an indoor archery range.

Some of the initial questions raised at this first meeting
were: Where is there space enough indoors to set up an
archery range? How much would it cost to build an ade-
quate backstop for the targets? Who would supervise the
program? What safety regulations would be in force?
These and many other questions had to be answered before
a plan could be formulated and acted upon.

The basement of the civic auditorium was suggested as
a possible site for the indoor range, and after consulting
with the city manager it was decided to set up a temporary
range there. Archery club members donated their services
and erected two portable stands. The large stand, which
supports three targets, holds thirty bales of hay; and the
smaller, one-target stand holds fifteen bales of bay.

The bales for the backstop are supported by wooden
racks, made of regular two-by-four pine wood, which have
small rollers attached and can be moved if necessary. The
hay has been treated with a special fire-resistant material*
to safeguard the building and meet existing fire regulations.

The original targets were donated by the archery club
from its outdoor range; so, with an outlay of approximately
fifty dollars for lumber and hay, the receiving end of the
indoor range was ready to go.

Archery club members agreed to open the range on a set
schedule and to supervise the shooting at all times. One
evening each week was set aside for instruction purposes.

* Mix nine ounces borax and four ounces boric acid in one gallon
of water; spray on two coats.

 

MR. PETERSON is superintendent of recreation in Emporia,
Kansas.

OCTOBER 1956

  
  
 
      

Indoor archery range in Civic Auditorium, Emporia,
Kansas. Target has fifteen bales of bay for backstop.

 

Classes for adults and youngsters ten years old and over
were organized by the recreation commission. These classes
were taught by volunteers from the club. Bows and arrows
for these instructions were furnished by the recreation com-
mission, from the summer day-camp supply.

The indoor range has a maximum shooting distance of
forty-eight yards (144 feet), with shooting stations at
twenty, thirty, and forty yards. As an added safety feature,
the range area is roped off each evening. The supporting
pillars in the basement area lend themselves well to roping
off certain sections.

The archery club is quick to point out to all beginners
the following rules of safety concerning their sport, and
encourages all parents of children having archery equip-
ment and sponsors of archery events to continually be aware
of their importance:

1. Remember at all times that a bow and arrow is a
deadly weapon and is as dangerous as a gun in the hands of
an irresponsible person. “There is no such thing as a toy
archery set.”

2. Always keep equipment in good, safe condition. Never
shoot a broken or splintered arrow.

3. Never release an arrow unless you can see where it
will land. Never shoot over a hill or building and never
shoot straight up.

4. Never aim an arrow at another person, nor permit
anyone to hold an object to be shot.

5. Protect your sport by being careful at all times.

In addition to co-sponsoring archery lessons with the
Emporia Recreation Commission, the archery club has set
aside one night each week for recreational shooting for
members only. Special events such as club and invitational
tournaments are also conducted by the club.

This new range has provided many Emporians with the
opportunity for active indoor recreation during winter
months and has utilized a large segment of indoor space
that is hardly ever used.

If you have archery enthusiasts in your community, why
not give them the opportunity to move indoors? I

391

 

\f“ . p. .  4‘ a... .

Illustrating a procedure for getting a
much needed job done in the provision
of adequate open space for recreation.

THE CHICAGO Park District is helping to build a bigger
and better Chicago. Through its Ten-Year Park Devel-
opment Plan, at least forty-three new and expanded parks,
many new fieldhouses, children’s playgrounds, and swim-
ming pools, among other facilities, are being provided. To
date over five-Hundred acres of space have been added under
this program. The plan is the result of many years’ study
by the engineering and recreation staffs of the park district,
in cooperation with the Chicago Plan Commission and other
city agencies such as the board of education, the Chicago
Land Clearance Commission, and the Chicago Housing
Authority. The objective has been to meet the needs of
Chicagoans for more recreation facilities.

A combination of factors had brought about a pressing
need for new and improved parks and facilities. Some of
these°factors were the increased population, the deprecia-
tion of many existing recreation facilities, the park district
inheritance from superseded districts of inadequate park
service coverage, and the contemporary philosophy and
broadened use of recreation as a vital element of life. The
park and recreation expansion program was conceived to
help correct these deficiencies and to meet the needs.

In 1945 the voters of Chicago approved general plan pro-
posals authorizing $12,000,000 worth of bonds to be issued
for the rehabilitation of existing parks and the development
of new or expanded parks. Another $6,000,000 in bonds
was voted in 1952 for similar purposes.

An initial step was the selection of locations for new
parks, and to accomplish this task a planning project was
created in the park district. This staff then cooperated with
a staff assigned to park planning by the Chicago Plan Com-
mission. The function of these groups was to devise a pro-
cess of land selection and acquisition. The plan commission
staff more specifically outlined the general land-use pattern
for each community, while the park agency personnel con-
centrated on actual site boundaries and acquisition data.
These staffs were composed of city planners, engineers,

,MR. ECKERSBERG is director of conservation plans of the
Community Conservation Board of Chicago, Illinois.

392

Plannin
and Buildit

Park development in early stages: digging trenches for underground pipes.

designers, draftsmen, sociologists, statisticians, recreation
analysts, and clerical workers. They made exhaustive studies
of land use, population densities and trends, existing rec-
reation facilities, and other social and physical data of each
of the many communities of the city. Census data, special
sociological data, park attendance records, aerial photo-
graphs, zoning regulations, and field-trip checks were some
of the sources used for the studies.

The information was digested and presented in statistical
and graphic form through charts and maps with overlays.
Evaluation of this data in terms of standards and objectives
was basic to the determination of areas and degrees of need
for recreation space. Accessibility, influence distance, and
size in relation to population were some of the standards
considered. Community parks are being distributed so
people need not travel any more than three-quarters of a
mile to reach them, and the size generally provides one acre
for every one. thousand persons to be in the influence area.
The space adequacy study refined by field, cost, and other
checks formed the basis fpr the plan recommendations.

All recommendations from these studies and reports take
recognition of pertinent suggestions by members of the
affected organizational units of the park district. The studies
and plan were then supplied to an advisOry citizens’ com-
mittee appointed by the park commissioners.

This committee has been made up of prominent citizens
who are familiar with real estate values, trends, and muni-
cipal development generally. Upon analysis of the studies,
and after making field trips to the neighborhood under
consideration, the advisory committee recommended to the
park commissioners its choice of sites for new parks. When
possible, the sites have been chosen near elementary and
high schools. It is here that cooperation with the school
board is emphasized. As a part of the general plan, a park-
school plan has been implemented by using old and newly-
constructed schools as recreation centers. The campus area
is a public park. Such an arrangement offers advantages
to both school and park agencies, and to the citizenry.

The park commissioners review the recommendations of
the advisory committee, and, if they approve a certain new
site, pass an ordinance designating the exact boundaries.
Site acquisition then proceeds on the basis of direct pur-
chase or condemnation, the latter based on the power of
eminent domain vested in the district. Any settlement

RECREATION

.squiring,
Jicago Parks

Alfred K. Eckersberg

A

reached through these practices is resubmitted to the citi-
' zens’ committee, whose real estate subcommittee approves
or disapproves the negotiations. If approved, they recom-
mend such settlement to the park commissioners; and, if
they in turn approve, the special counsel then takes the
necessary steps for the proper adjudication of the settlement
in court. The over-all procedure has promoted fairness to

all concerned and has extended the return from each dollar
invested.

Once Chicago Park District ownership of a site is estab-
,lished, a design is drawn to indicate the layout of the park
and facilities. During successive revisions the design incor-
g porates suggestions and recommendations made by con-
‘sulted staff members of the recreation division on program
use of facilities, the office of the chief engineer and the
design and contract section on engineering aspects, the
1 electrical section on illumination andfelectrical power, the

  
 
  

landscape sections on planting design and related problems,
the architectural section on building design and layout, the
‘. repair section on construction and installations, the build-
} ing and facilities operating section on maintenance, the
police division on patrolling, and the traffic section on park-
:ing and transportation features. The planning project

I

L’coordinates these activities and provides the basic studies.

’ In general, most of these parks are to be community-type
rparks ultimately containing lieldhouses, athletic fields,
jchildren’s playgrounds, multiple-use areas, tennis courts,
‘horseshoe courts, and “quiet” or picnic areas. Some, in
1 addition to these facilities, will have wading and swimming
Lpools. The fieldhouses will contain auditoriums, gymna-
i siums, clubrooms, craftrooms, and offices. Development of

‘ these parks and facilities proceeds on the basis of a priority
 of needs in various communities in which the sites are
located throughout the city. Those communities wherein
‘ the population is numerically high or growing so, while
‘ recreation services are largely absent, have a greater pri-
ority than those where such conditions are less evident.

Throughout the steps of planning, acquiring, and devel-
oping parks, consideration is consistently given the rela-
tive merits of providing the theoretically most desirable
facility in relation to the estimated costs of acquisition and
development for that unit and for possible alternatives.

Additionally, acquisitions of acreage in sparsely settled

OCTOBER 1956

Grading operations to develop a l

 

'.. h.-
13%“. ".m-
m «as: ,1 ,‘ ,

ake-front park for community recreation.

.VI-i‘

.—

communities at low cost in anticipation of future need are
necessarily balanced against providing costly facilities in
highly populated areas lacking adequate service now.

Once acreage is obtained in both types of areas, develop-
ment priority favors the highly p0pulated sections. The
total funds available thus imposes a framework of limita-
tions over the entire process.

Programs for redevelopment, conservation, and urban
renewal of the city have been recognized in the park plan-
ning. In c00peration with the Chicago Housing Authority,
parks have been designed into projects to serve both their
residents and those from adjoining neighborhoods. Within
some projects, the area owned by the park district is closely
integrated to designed open Space in the housing project,
creating a larger park area than would usually be obtained
by the park agency itself. Similar coordination is being
achieved with the redevelopment agency (Land Clearance
Commission) that uses public funds to acquire and clear
blighted property for resale to private developers. Urban
renewal-conservation projects being prepared by the con-
servation board also are now being studied to provide for
the inclusion of park acreage. Park district participation
in these renewal programs accrues many benefits. Park
recreation space is increased, renewal programs are fur-
thered, and development is accomplished much more elli-
ciently. While, in the renewal projects, the park district
must obtain property ownership through purchase, it gener-
ally is attained with a minimum of cost and bother with
individual parcel acquisition, structure demolition, and
family relocation. Usually the redevelopment agency per-
forms such acts and then sells the land in one piece and for

a nominal lump sum to the recreation agency.

In each of these cases park acreage is being supplied as
an important contemporary land use and service area.
Whereas park space is often woefully deficient in most of
the deteriorated areas before their redeveIOpment, they are
now being provided with this necessary facility. In the con-
servation areas as well, the lack of adequate open recreation
space is considered a contribution of their lessening attrac-
tiveness for residential purposes. The provision of parks
here is likewise considered a requirement for promoting an
upgrading and a consequent greater stability of the
community. I

393

 

’I‘HE FOLLOWING statement of policy shall govern the
actions of the common council and the board of school
directors in the execution of their plan of cooperation for
the joint planning and separate use of combined properties
in the linancing, purchasing, construction, reconstruction
and maintenance of neighborhood playgrounds and play-
fields in the city of Milwaukee.

Location of Neighborhood Playgrounds

1. So far as possible, playgrounds should be a part of or
adjoining the grounds of elementary schools or located in
neighborhood parks. When this is not possible, there is a
less desirable alternative—the construction of a playground
segregated from a school or park. _

2. Neighborhood playgrounds should, whenever possible,
extend to street or at least to alley lines and not abut private
property.

Financing and Purchasing

1. Provisions should be made for the purchase and im-
provement of neighborhood playgrounds and playfields
through the city of Milwaukee’s capital improvement pro-
gram and funds. The commissioner of public works or his
representative shall, after consultation and agreement with
the representative of the board of school directors submit
annually to the capital improvements committee a recom-
mended program based as far as possible upon the recom-
mendations contained in the most recent Ten-Year Play-
ground Sites Survey and Program.

2. The common council of the city of Milwaukee, when-
ever it contemplates the purchase of property for new neigh-

borhood playgrounds or playlields not already approved
in the most recent Ten-Year Playground Sites Survey and

ivy—“H

Reprinted Will! permission from Summary Report, Boarl S h l
m'CC‘OH. Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 1956, i a] c 00

394

This indicates how schools and city authorities
can work together cooperatively in acquiring
and developing recreation areas. It could
well act as a pattern for other communities.

Program, shall notify, consult with, and obtain the approval
of the board of school directors before the purchase is made
if the board of school directors is to assume the maintenance
and operation costs. a

3. The board of school directors, whenever it contem-
plates the purchase of property for new play areas not
already approved in the most recent Ten-Year Playground
Sites Survey and Program, or in the most recent Five-Year
School Building and Future Sites Program, shall take into
consideration the cost of playground construction because
of terrain, drainage, and accessibility in order that future
costs to be borne by the city shall be kept to a minimum.

4. Purchase of land needed for future neighborhood play-
grounds or playfields should, when possible, be made before
private or public buildings are erected thereon or any real
estate deve10pment is started, even though the area is not
to be developed immediately.

Construction and Reconstruction

1. Construction and reconstruction and the erection of
buildings on all neighborhood playgrounds and playfields
used in connection with public recreation, as distinguished
from areas used in connection with the education program,
shall be under the control of the commissioner of public
works; work to be done according to plans and specifica-
tions submitted by him and such representative of the board
of school directors as shall be designated by it, subject to
the approval of the common council.

2. The board of school directors shall include the sur-
facing and development of areas and facilities adjacent to
new school buildings to be used in connection with the edu-
cation program (for recess activities) as part of the new
school building project cost.

3. Reconstruction means changes in layout or grade
necessitating and involving a complete restudy of the
grounds and facilities.

4. The common council shall supply funds for neighbor-
hood playgrounds and playfield reconstruction. The plans
for reconstruction shall be made by the department of public
works in cooperation with the board of school directors as
for a new neighborhood playground or playfield, and such
reconstruction plans shall be submitted to the common coun-
cil for approval.

5. No major change in layout of a recreation area shall
be made by the common council or board of school direc-
tors, except upon mutual agreement.

6. Salvageable material and equipment resulting from

such reconstruction shall revert to the department which
originally supplied it.

RECREATION

Maintenance
1. After neighborhood playgrounds and playfields are

completed and equipped according to the plans and specifi-
cations, the same shall be under the supervision, both as to
maintenance and play organization, of the department of
municipal recreation of the board of school directors.

2. Maintenance means. resurfacing of grounds, replace-
ment of lighting, equipment, minor changes in dimensions
or grades, minor remodeling, and general repairs.

3. The board of school directors shall provide in its ex-
tension fund budget funds to maintain neighborhood play-
grounds and playfields transferred to it in a reasonable
manner to prevent deterioration which might require major
reconstruction or rehabilitation.

Cooperative Development

1. Where the board of school directors has purchased a
school site sufficiently large to provide for a school and a
neighborhood playground or playfield, the common council
will provide for the development of the neighborhood play
area portion of such site‘. in the capital improvement pro-
gram.

2. In such development, a representative of the depart-
ment of public works shall be invited to participate from
the very start in the planning of the play area portion of the
site in order that there will be maximum coordination of
playground and building functions.

3. Plans for such neighborhood playgrounds and play-
fields to be constructed with funds supplied by the common
council shall be submitted to the council for approval.
Partially Completed Grounds -

1. Because of the length of time required to complete the
development of the larger playgrounds or playfields and the
pressing need for the use of the facilities, the board of school
directors will accept for operation and maintenance the
usable improved portions and facilities prior to completion
of the entire project.

2. The common council shall do everything within reason
to complete the construction as soon as possible of partially
completed neighborhood playgrounds or playfields accord-
ing to the plans approved by the common council and the
board of school directors, so that they may be fully and
finally accepted by the board of school directors.
Abandonment

1. When it is deemed advisable to abandon any play-
ground or playlield, the initiative may come from either
the common council or the board of school directors, but
such abandonment shall be only by mutual consent.

2. Upon abandonment, the control of the land shall revert
to the entity which acquired it; salvageable equipment and
accessories shall become the property of the agency which
purchased them.

The following “Statement of Policy” was adopted May
3, 1955: ‘

The board of school directors shall surface an area of one
hundred square feet per child, on the basis that each grade-
school room in the building has an enrollment of thirty-
five children; that an area of fifty square feet shall be
surfaced for each child in the kindergarten; that each kin-
dergarten has an average enrollment of thirty children. I

OCTOBER 1956

  Your group will dance

HOW COMPLETELY

Can YOU
Answer
These

Questions?

JHow much are recreation departments in your population
group spending for leadership?

JWhot cities in your NRA District operate swimming pools
under recreation and/or pork department control?

What kinds of recreation activities were widely provided
in last year's programs?

For the LATEST
FACTS AND FIGURES -—- NATIONWIDE—
get the

RECREATION AND PARK YEARBOOK
Ready November 1956

$2.00
RECREATION BOOK CENTER

National Recreation Association
8 West Eighth Street New York 11, New York

 

     
  
 

: Originally
designed for

MARY WTGMAN

The choice of
leading artists and
foremost schools

better to the exciting beat cf the

In the actual dance or as a dramatic accompaniment,
the Gretsch Dance Drum lends itself to colorful
interpretations of modern, classical and oriental themes.

trianuscn DANCE DRUM

tight and sturdymWeighs 23 Ounces, has 3-ply 
- laminated rock maple rim, finished in transparent lacqner ; if
in natural color. Head of specially selected real skin 

with bright, nickel-plated straining hoop and eight
nickel tensioning brackets. In ordering mention
X4145-~Price $15.00, postage extra.

g Lamb’swwoolvhead beaterswUsed with the Gretsch
 Dance Drum singly or in pairs. Order #5250

 at $2.50 each, postage extra.

H The FRED. GRETSCH Mfg. Co.
60 Broadway, Brooklyn '11, N. Y.

Makers of fine musical Instruments for over '70 years

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 395

Should

Park and Recreation Departments

In. CONSIDERING a-lnerger of depart-
ments or social agencies, it is of the
utmost importance to define and clarify
the reasons for the merger and the aims
to be achieved. In this article an effort
will be made to relate the experience of
Santa Barbara, California, with a view
of illustrating the point made above.
Officials and citizens charged with
the responsibility of making a decision
regarding a proposed merger will need
first to consider the nature of their com-
munity. Santa Barbara is a city of ap-
proximately fifty thousand people,
beautifully located on a coastal plain be-
tween the Pacific Ocean and the moun-
tains. Its proximity to resources for
yachting, swimming, fishing, hiking,
picnicking, and pleasure driving gives
it a natural interest in recreation of all
kinds, and a strong determination to

 

MR. CERSON is a member of the Santa
Barbara City Recreation Commission.

306

A

Mrrryogo-rouml In popular Oak Park, Santa Barbara,

Merge?

preserve and enhance its beauty. Its
fine year-round climate makes outdoor
living, sports, and fun an important
part of every resident’s life. It is in
part a normal business community and
in part a resort and the retirement home
of older newcomers from all parts of the
world. In common with the national
statistical trend, indeed in even greater
degree, it has more children and more
old people than those in middle life, and
this population trend is accelerating.

In 1951 and in 1953 different com-
mittees, appointed by the mayor of
Santa Barbara to study the recreation
needs of the city, among their many
suggestions recommended a merger be-
tween the park and recreation depart-
ments of the city. N 0 action took place
on this recommendation until the re-
ports were referred by the city council
to the city recreation commission and

the park commission late in 1953 for
study.

 

-ah-‘- -_. ‘

, together with
puppet thratrr. barbecue facilities, is maintained by the park

department

Wading pool, swings,

Samuel Gerson

The commissions, in turn, assigned
this task to a small sub-committee. The
sub-committee, after several meetings
in 1954, came up with many sugges-
tions and among them had this to say
about the merger:

“The relations between the two com-
missions are good. The executives of
the two departments work closely to-
gether and clear their thinking and
planning. The interests of the two com-
missions are closely linked. There is
doubt whether any financial saving
would be accomplished through a mer-
ger.

“To merge the two commissions
would require a chairman who has a

good understanding of both functions '

and an administrator who is familiar
and experienced in both fields. Such a
man is hard to find and is expensive.
The present cordial working relations
between the two commissions and de-
partments would suffer and, with it, the

4.

-—-'-°" 6-.— «dis-till

 

horseshoe pits, outdoor dance floor,

with programs conducted by recreation department.

RECREATION

 l

program. This would be followed by
community reaction. The committee is
definitely against a merger at this
time.”

The recreation commission approved
this report and sent it on to the city
council. The council, after a good deal
of study, referred the report back to
the recreation and the park commis-
sions for further study. This was in
April 1954. The reasons given were:

1. Existing trend in the state and
country toward merging of park and
recreation departments in the interest
of economy and efficiency.

2. The best time for a merger is now,
particularly since the relations between
the two departments and commissiOns
are so harmonious.

3. A joint study at this time would
perform a lasting service to Santa
Barbara.

4. The city is facing severe financial
problems.

5. The studies made in 1951 and
1953 recommended a merger of the two
departments.

6. It might improve the efiiciency of
the city government.

In reSponse to the above, sub-com-
mittees were appointed by both com-
missionslto study the council request.
The sub-committees met separately at
first and finally together. It was jointly

decided to visit, at their own eXpense, '

certain selected cities in California
with populations ranging from 17,000
to that of 435,000; cities with separate
park and recreation departments; cities
with merged departments; cities in the
process of merging. Each member of
the committee was assigned a different
city with the purpose of discussing
mergers with members of commissions,
city managers or mayors, and directors
of departments in order to determine
whether savings in expenditures, reduc-
tions of staff, and a more efficient pro-
gram would result from a merger.

The joint committee found that cities
vary and what’s good for one city is not
necessarily good for another city. There
is no one organization pattern through
which every city in California can ef—
fectively provide for the leisure of its
people. Experiments with various plans
are being carried on but have not been
in effect long enough to determine

whether they will work or not. All cities

OCTOBER 1956

have felt the impact of increased popu-
lation and the need of improved and
efficient recreation facilities and opera-
tions. The entire deve10pment of pub-
lic recreation is still new.

The oint committee saw merged de-
partments, separate departments, and
departments in the process of study. In
some of the merged cities, staff conflicts
were sensed. N o evidence was obtained
indicating savings or staff elimination
resulting from merger. None of thc ex-
periments being carried on in mergers
have progressed far enough to indicate
that a more efficient job was being done
as a result of the merger. In view of
the above, the committee, after discuss-
ing their experiences jointly, came Up
with these recommendations:

1. That the present departments be
continued as they are without change.

2. That the two departments and
commissions continue their oint meet-
ings for the purpose of clearing prob-
lems and programs as they have been
doing.

3. That some of the activities now

MORE THAN

100,000

U.S. SCHOOLS AND COLLEGES EACH YEAR SPECIFY

NEW YORK 11

 
 
    
     

   

 
 
  

J

I
--

if:

           
 

    

\\ .
can, 2‘-



  
  

AMERICA'S OLDEST AND LARGEST IMPORTERS AND MANUFACTURERS OF

 

FENCING EQUIPMENT

\ 30 EAST 10th STREET, N.Y.3,N.Y. - GRamercy 7-5790

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

    

I

1’

         

conducted by the park department be
transferred to the recreation depart-
ment, where they belong.

These recommendations were ap-
proved by both commissions and were
referred to the city council. N 0 further
word was received from the city coun-
cil, except for appreciation for the job
done. This was followed by an editor-
ial in the local paper entitled “Merger
of City Park and Recreation Commis-
sion Not in the Public Interest.”

Thus the question of “Merger—F or
What?” was answered for the present
at least. As time goes by, situations
might change, thus precipitating the
question of a merger once again. When
that time comes, the questions will have
to be reviewed again and examined in
the light of the new situation. In plan-
ning, nothing is static. It may be that
under certain situations and certain
changes a merger between the two de-
partments may be desirable and may
yet become a reality. I

Reprinted with permission from Park
Maintenance, October 1955.

DANVlLLE, ILL. ° LOS ANGELES 11

 

A FENCING:
PROGRAM:

For 2 or 200. Requires minimum space and simple inex-
pensive equipment.

We design ond manufacture the .
best and least expensive
weapons ond accessories .
for beginners and ex-
perts. let us help you .
set up o fencing activity
or develop the one you .
have. Consultotions free.

Write Dept. R for .
FREE CATALOG.
O

—-——u

//,
r7!

 

397

for the

Administrator

NOTES

' Recreation Area Encroachment

Recreation and park areas continue to provide promising
sites for facilities designed to serve other uses, and con-
stant vigilance must be maintained to prevent diversion of
such lands to non-recreation use.

The Cook County Forest Preserve Board in Illinois, which
has consistently and successfully maintained its land against
encroachment, has vigorously Opposed a plan to locate an
expressway through one of its preserves. It has also re-
jected a suggestion by a committee of the University of Illi-
nois proposing a section of one of the forest preserves as its
first choice for a four-year state university in the Chicago
area.

In Berkeley, California, on the other hand, the city coun-
cil voted Fremontia Park as a firehouse site. In comment-
ing on this action, Planning and Civic Comment states:

“Has Berkeley so much park area that it can afford to
sacrifice even a small park for a building site? Was any
compensation awarded to the park department for purchase
of other park land? With our rapidly growing p0pulation
and our increased needs for parks, parkways and play-
grounds, it would seem that our park systems are being
chipped away to meet demands for traffic, garages, building
sites, and other uses unrelated to parks. In another gener-

ation, when our park needs become desperate, it will be
hard to find open spaces for parks.”

Recreation by Annexation

Merced, California, requires as one of the conditions of
annexation that the owner or owners of the territory to be

annexed pay $100 per gross acre for parks and recreation
facilities along with 3550 additional per gross acre for other

facilities and services.

The city has no specific provision calling for the setting
aside of lands for parks or recreation facilities either for
subdivisions within the city or annexed to the city.

If a subdivider so desired, he could set aside a certain
lot or group of lots for such purposes and have this satisfy
the 3100 per acre parks and recreation fee. This would have

to be approved by the planning commission and city coun-
cil and deeded to the city.

398

Extension of Water Rights

The Michigan Inter-Agency Council for Recreation re-
ports an important court decision establishing the right of
people to boat and fish on Lake Ann, Presque Isle County.
Previous court decisions had established the right of the
public to use all navigable waters, but this is the first case
in which a relatively small stream was involved.

Use of Facilities by Non-Residents

Rapidly improved means of transportation, together with
the failure of recreation facilities to keep pace with the in-
creasing population, have presented many park and recrea-
tion authorities with the problem of controlling the use of
their facilities by non-residents. The two cases cited here
illustrate the fact that the power of authorities to deal with
this problem varies from state to state.

Early in 1955 the Board of Supervisors of Westchester
County, New York, directed that only Westchester residents
be admitted to Saxon Woods Golf Course in Scarsdale.
This course is located in a county park and has been widely
used by residents of nearby New York City. Non-residents
of the county had not been barred previously because it
was believed that the county had no legal right to exclude
them. However, two recent court decisions in the state gave
the county authorities reason to believe that they could
deny to persons living outside the county the use of park
facilities financed from county funds.

Park district authorities in Illinois, on the other hand,
apparently do not have authority to limit the use of their
facilities by non—residents, according to a legal opinion by
Robert A. Stuart, consultant-“of the Illinois Assdciation of

Park Districts, appearing in the May-June 1955 issue of
Illinois Parks. His opinion reads:

“Most certainly it seems equitable and ust that the resi-
dent taxpayer whose funds make possible the maintenance of
the park facilities within his district, should have a priority
or preferential use of such facilities. However, the Illinois
courts have repeatedly held that facilities maintained by park
districts are for the equal benefit of all of the people of the,1
state and the courts have further held that park districtsa
cannot operate facilities or permit them to be operated in‘
such a manner as to grant a preferential use to any one per-;'
son or group of persons. It seems clear, therefore, that
under the decisions a park district may not exclude non-
residents of the district who are residents of the State of
Illinois from the use of the facilities maintained within the
district itself. ‘

“Under the police powers granted to the district for the
orderly maintenance of its park facilities and the co-ordig
natlon of its recreational programs, however, the park disL
tr1ct does have authority to designate areas and schedule
events from time to time. In exercising these police powers,
therefore, the district does have a measure of control over
the use of the facilities despite the fact that the courts would
undoubtedly hold that these powers may not be exercised
so as to discriminate against any resident of the State of
Illinois. ‘1

“It has been suggested that signs might be placed within
the park stating that the park is maintained through the
taxatlon of the peOple resident of the district and that they,
therefore, have priority in all of its uses. In view of the

‘lCECiSiOHSa it would be my opinion that such a sign or notice
mlght be construed to be in derogation of a public user.” I

RECREATION '

 

If you are planning the construction of an I ' FOR SUPERIOR DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION
' AND PERFORMANCE . . . FAR GREATER

STRENGTH . . . UNEQUALLED SAFETY. . .

Ice Skating Facility in the near future consult ,j
a firm that has designed and engineered l7
ice skating rinks and arenas in the past year

I
I
i
E INDOOR - OUTDOOR

  

PERMANENT - PORTABLE ‘ '

Take advantage of our invaluable knowledge and
experience Of ice rink feasibility, planning and
construction.

 
    

 PLAYGROUND
SWIMMING POOL

COSTS OPERATION

REVENUE PROMOTION “"d DRESSING ROOM
FINANCE EQUIPMENT E Q II I P M E N 'I'
ENGINEERING SITE PLANNING

Since 19” the finest equipment built,
backed by lifetime guarantee against
defective materials and construction

. specified by leading recreational
authorities for almost half a century.

Send for New Catalog

We now are designing 13 rinks and arenas for the
1957 season, and have just completed the design
Of 5 outdoor rinks for the City Of Buffalo which are
to open this year.

  

Write for Folder
On AMERlCAN'S
JlM PATTERSON

LIFETIME
Aluminum
D I V I N G

B O A R D
WORLD'S FINEST

OFFICIAL BOARD

.r-‘-—N"‘ _ ‘

 
 

'— 7.-

AME RICA N
PLAYGROUND DEVICE C0.

ANDERSON, INDIANA, U. S. A.

WORLD'S LARGEST MANUFACTURERS OF FINE
PARK, PICNIC, PLAYGROUND. SWIMMING
POOL AND'DRESSING ROOM EQUIPMENT

 
 

Peter Carver Associates

70 EAST 45th STREET
NEW YORK 17, NEW YORK

Phone: LExington 2-1520

2

       
 
  

   
     
   
 

OUR REFERENCES AND EXPERIENCE ARE YOUR GUARANTEE

 

m0 

 

CONTROLLED HEAT

ENAMELING and
CERAMIC KILN

    

  
 
   
  

If.

Plus $1.50
Packing Charge

  

   
 
  

ACCESSORY $1 795
PYROMETER
Duo-Kiln Amazing kiln value . . . ideal

 
 

MODEL KN "2 for home, school and studio!
Perfect for controlled test firing where larger equipment is in use.

M THESE TERRlFlC FEATURES:

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
   

0 U.L. approved cord and O Firing time to 1500"; 55 min.
3 heat switch 0 Temp. range to I950°1mp/x.
- 0 Outside dimens. 13 x I x
o 110 volt AC, 10 amp. operotlon 14% 2  
0 Plug type self-sealing door . wt 35 ",5". shipping wt. '
o 2 elements recessed 3 sides 40 lbs. 80 sensatIonally better are they on

every count—design, construction,
quality. durability and play-abIlIty—
that Rawlings HERCULITE
Rubber-Covered Athletic Balls
have established a new high
standard. They’re in a class

by themselves—they're . .

 374.2 7m
' ', 7:: 746 ”

ORDER TODAY! SATISFACTION GUARANTEED!

DEALERS INQUIRIES INVITED

s I o o a o .-

n s u I o n on

g o a a o . . ..

, I a o a n s n-

l e I e a a o.

e n s o - u we

ENAMEL-ON-COPPER -------------- -.

MBOOKW   s . . §§;;:;.;:;.;.3..'

learn iewelry making and latest enomeling processes OHd 
techniques from step by step instructions. Book lists many '5:
brand new copper items never before available, COMPI‘?"e 
supplies, new tools 8: equipment. Send for your copy of 

- I u lo
u n e t 'l
o a n s n .-

this valuable instruction book todoyl Its FREE  ------ '-

   fmrr’dgi'ngcfmSISon

Dept. 107 0 1812 East 13th St. 0 Cleveland 14. Ohio

VOLLEY BALLS
BASKETBALLS
SOCCER BALLS
FOOTBALLS

  
    
      
 

RAWLIIIOS SPORTING GOODS CO. 0 ST. LOUIS &- LOS ANGELES

 

lCTOBER 1956 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 399

P E n s o NMN

l
E L

New National Internship Program

For several years the National Recre-
ation Association conducted' an intern-
ship program. A small fund made avail-
able to the Association just prior to
World War II was used to pay a very
modest stipend to a few interns each
year. The depletion of this resource
and interruption by the war resulted in
termination of this program.

The possibility of reviving it follow-
ing the war was eXplored but funds
were not forthcoming. Although the
temptation to despair was great, efforts
were continued to find a way to resume
what had been a highly gratifying and
successful experience.

As is so often the case, the greatest
source of help had been overlooked—
the recreation executives and agencies
themselves. Personal discussion with a
number of these executives encouraged
the Association to believe that there
were enough American cities with suf-
ficient ‘funds and concern to support
such a program. Dr. Paul F. Douglass,
chairman of the NRA’s National Advi-
sory Committee on Recruitment, Train-
ing and Placement of Recreation Per-
sonnel, was especially intrigued with
the unique idea of anchoring the
financing in the local departments
themselves. If this could be accom-
plished, it would assure a permanent
nationwide~internship program not de-
pendent upon funds from foundations
and other outside sources here today
and gone tomorrow.

The plan was discussed last year at
the annual meeting of the National Ad-
visory Committee held in conjunction
with the National Recreation Congress
in Denver. At this meeting, Dr. Doug-
lass appointed a committee to study the
problem and draft criteria to guide the
program and serve as a basis of Opera-

 

MR. SUTHERLAND is director of the NRA
Recreation Personnel Service.

400

tion. The committee was composed of
Chairman Sal Prezioso, superintendent
of recreation, Westchester County, New
York; Don B. Dyer, assistant superin-
tendent of schools, in charge of recrea-
tion and adult education, Milwaukee,
Wisconsin; Dr. Howard Danford, di-
rector of physical education, Florida
State University, Tallahassee, Florida;
Robert P. Hunter, director, Department
of Parks and Recreation, Roanoke, Vir-
ginia; and Thomas W. Lantz, superin-
tendent of public recreation, Tacoma,
Washington.

The committee completed its assign-
ment promptly with recommendations
for action. It strongly recommended
that, for the first year, the interns
shouldgbe limited to a small, highly
selected group of about six. Also, it
was felt that locations for training
should- be distributed on a wide geo-
graphic basis. A few cities were selected
on the basis of interest, ability to pay
the intern, and readiness to establish a
good training situation with provision
for adequate supervision.

The enthusiastic response from the
operating agencies is revealed in part
by the following comments:

“The city manager concurs with me
that this program is not only desirable,
but one that would be most beneficial
to the city. I heartily endorse it, and
will continue to work for its introduc-
tion and ultimate acceptance as a nor-
mal part of the training period.”———R. P.
Hunter, Director of Parks and Recrea-
tion, Roanoke, Virginia.

+£- * if '3!-

“The committee should be commend-
ed for its thorough and creative think-
ing. Basically, the plan is excellent.”-———
A. C. Kerby, J r., Recreation Supervisor,

Callaway Mills Company, La Grange,
Georgia.

W. C. Sutherland

“I think this is a fine step forward.
I shall watch its growth and develop-
ment with much interest.”——Henry J.

McFarland, Jr., Director, New York

State Department of . Civil Service,
Albany, New York.

* '1!- * '35-

“We are most enthusiastic—in fact,
we would be willing to make our pro-
gram meet whatever you feel would
implement this internship program on a
sound basis.”—Dorothea M. Lensch,
Director of Recreation, Portland, Ore-

gon.
* il- * '1':

“In regard to the pr0posed intern-
ships, I am certainly impressed and
very, very pleased, of course. It sounds
like a splendid proposition.”————Ellen E.
Harvey, Recreation Coordinator, Uni-
versity of Maryland, College Park,
Maryland.

+£- * * 4:-

In setting up the program, the plan-
ners were working on the theory that
“executives are not improvised and that
each field and generation must develop
its own.” Also, they were aware that,
according to research, training should
be as similar as possible to reality. The
internship program has a variety of
favorable factors for strengthening the
recreation profession at its base, in the
quality of leadership by:

' Bridging the gap between education
and eXperience through a carefully de-
signed and c00perative work study
plan.

' Satisfying the desire of students to
have a definite period of eXperience
after graduation in a well-organized
department, under close supervision of
highly

supervisors and administrators.

successful and experienced

' Opening up new permanent staff
positions for well-trained students.

RECREATION

° Keeping young people interested in
further professional preparation.

° Holding outstanding Students in the
field due to superior preparation and
better opportunities for rapid advance-
ment.

Its purpose is to provide intensive
postgraduate education in recreation
leadership and administration through
a cooperative program of work and
study, pooling resources of the Na-
tional Recreation Association, commu-
nity recreation agencies, the recreation
profession, colleges and universities.

This plan calls for the selection of a
group of outstanding graduates each
year in a coordinated work-study pro-
gram.

Interns are placed in selected com-
munities under a program coordinated
by the National Recreation Association
and under its general supervision. Each
intern receives special training under
:the direction of the agency executive
'and his supervisors. This involves ro-
tated tasks and on-the-j ob experience in
,all phases of administration and super-
ivision of recreation. A continuing study
program with directed reading is part
of the year’s work.

 

Upon satisfactory completion of the
.raining period a special certificate of_
pchievement will be awarded the intern,

'20 become part of his professional ore--

lentials. Also, he will be given special
assistance in placement in the type of
)osition, department, or.specialization
if his choice.

The National Recreation Association,
is the national service agency, will be
'esponsible for recruiting, preliminary
-.creening, and placement of interns
vith the agencies. Appropriate recrea-
ion agencies for placement of indi-
ridual interns will be selected. Prog-
ess reports will be received, analyzed,
1nd evaluated.

The college will nominate outstand-
ng graduate students and graduating
teniors for internships, and will make
.vailable all necessary information re-
;arding nominees. If academic credit
3 involved, each school will define its
irovision for credits, the payment of
:ees, supervision, and the relationships
" etween participating parties.

 
   
 
   
 

The recreation agency will be re-
} onsible for providing the work sched-

LCTOBER 1956

 

ule and day-to-day supervision of the
student. There will be, as far as it is
consistent with the agency’s work, ro-
tated assignments in all of the depart-
ment’s activities. The executive or his
delegated representative will meet peri-
odically with the intern to discuss and
evaluate his experiences and growth.
The department will provide a stipend
or salary not less than the amount for
its beginning full-time year-round
workers. Reports, oral or written, will
be made to the National Recreation As-
sociation as required, but not less than
four times during the internship.
Departments wishing to participate
in the internship program will submit
information about their facilities, lead-
ership and program to the Association.
Also, each will prepare and submit a
job specification,listing the major func-
tions the intern is expected to perform,
together with the amount and type of
supervision which may be expected.
The recreation student will submit
application after he has been nomi-
nated by the director of the college rec-
reation curriculum. The application
will be made on the Association’s stand-
ard personnel form which will become
a part of the student’s professional rec-
ord. Interns will be expected to com-
plete the training period and remain in
the recreation profession for at least
three years. It is understood that the
program will be discontinued (if his
work or behavior falls below standards
acceptable to the local department or
the National Recreation Association.
As this goes to press, five_ appoint-
ments have been made involving the
recreation and park departments in

Philadelphia, Portland, and Milwau-

kee, and in state mental hospitals in In-

  

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

A CONTRIBUTION TO OUR CUSTOMERS. __

During 1957 our customers will receive the lowest possible prices . . .
All orders over $50 will be shipped freight prepaid as stipulated in our new 1957 catalog.

Write For Your FREE 1957 CATALOG
of HANDICRAFT SUPPLIES

Build your recreational programs around Cleveland Crafts Proiects. A complete line of
handicrafts supplies is always maintained to serve you dependably and reliably.

new CHICAGO warehouse
OPENED FOR YOUR CONVENIENCE

-34 ELMWOOD PARKWAY

 

 

CLEVELAND CRAFTS CO.

diana. Others are pending in the rec-
reation departments in Dayton, Ohio,
and in Oakland, Los Angeles County,
and the State Mental Hygiene System,
California.

Intern Appointments

James McChesney, a resident of Mar-
ion, Kentucky, began his internship in
the recreation department in Milwau-
kee, Wisconsin, on September 1. He
holds an MS in recreation from Indiana
University and has completed his work
for the directorate degree. Lois Ann
Smith of Clairton, Pennsylvania, a June
recreation graduate from Pennsylvania
State University, began her internship
in hospital recreation at the Evansville,
Indiana, state hospital on August 1.
Another Pennsylvania State June grad-
uate, Shirley Lorraine Hartay of Pitts-
burgh, Pennsylvania, has also started
her internship program in the Indiana
Department of Mental Health. She is
working at the state hospital in Madi-
son. Charles Hartsoe of Philadelphia,
a Springfield College recreation grad-
uate, who received his MA in recreation
from Illinois University in June, began
his internship in the Philadelphia Recre-
ation Department in June. Barry D.
Mangum, who received his MS in rec-
reation from Illinois University in
August, begins his interning in the rec-
reation department at Portland, Ore-
gon, on October 1.

'IE it- * 4!

Seniors and graduate students in rec-
reation can obtain details about the
National Internship Program from the
NRA Recreation Personnel Service or
from the
major curriculum at'their school. I

director of the recreation

   

immediate service . . .

 
   
     
       
    

(EImwood Park)
CHICAGO 35, Ill.

    
    

  

4705 EUCLID AVENUE
CLEVELAND 3, OHIO

401

{a

0&54664051766“;

Alfred B. Jensen

 

More Summer Jobs fOr Students

More recreation positions than ever
before were open tO students during the
summer of 1956. They had their choice
of bigger and better opportunities to
obtain paid experience that would add
to their professional qualifications.

The summer-placement bulletin
board of the recreation and youth lead-
ership department at Springfield Col-
lege, Massachusetts, at one time carried
listings for positions in twelve different
states and Canada, with opportunities
to work in at least ten different kinds of
recreation leadership situations. Simi-
lar Opportunities were offered at many
other colleges.

This is only one of many healthy
signs pointing to an expanding and im-
proving profession. Recreation students
as well as professional recreation lead-
ers are in increasing demand.

\Viseonsin Women’s Rifle Club

The University of Wisconsin Wom-
en’s Rifle Club, formed in the spring Of
1956‘, now has more than thirty mem-
bers. The club grew out of a riflery
program in the recreation laboratory
sponsored for recreation majors and
minors by the school of education. It
uses the staff and facilities of the Stu-
dent Union.

The president of the new club is
Sharon Blackadder, a recreation minor.
Jay Shivers, club advisor, reports the
club is applying for affiliation with the
National Rifle Association.

MIT Scholarship Fund

Richard A. Kane, a senior at Massa-
chusetts Institute of Technology, has
set aside $1,200 Of his future annual
earnings to help MIT students, accord-
ing to The New York Times.

The physics major has set a new pre-
cedent in student assistance. Distribu-
tion of funds will he unrestricted, so
students in need Of subsidy may be
aided on an individual basis.

Perhaps no single recreation student
could make such a grant. Could a rec-
reationclass or group develop a similar
project? The need is great!

Recreation: Courses in California

College recreation courses in Cali-
fornia have been summarized in a sur-
vey digest prepared by the professional

402

education committee of the California
Recreation Society. Stanley R. Gabriel-
sen edited the report which covers
twenty-five colleges. The survey was
conducted by recreation seniors Jack

Keifer and Robert L. Howard in 1954

under supervision of Professor Norman

P. Miller.

Maryland
Recreation

Exhibit

 

 

The following news item was pre-
pared by John Werback, recreation stu-
dent at the University of Maryland, as
part of a class assignment.

During the centennial celebration of
the University of Maryland at College
Park, the recreation department pre-
sented an exhibit to stimulate interest
in its curriculum. The display, a student
project, presented an introductory
question, “Which Are You?”, followed
by three categories: “Bored?”, “Only
Entertained?”, and “Creative?”

“Bored?” was represented by a paper
maché figure of cartoonist William
Steig’s famous character, the hermit
who claims, “People are no good.” His
limited perspective was symbolized by
the close confinement of his dwelling,
and the stagnation of his unproductive
existence was indicated by the decayed
and unpainted walls of the interior.
The particularly weird expression of
the little man was designed to attract
viewers to the booth, and his morbid
countenance was given an “American
look” by a bent cigarette stuck in the
corner of his mouth.

“Only Entertainetl?” demonstrated
passive enjoyment with the figure of
a small boy in a sailor suit sitting on
the floor watching television. One

harmful effect of overconcentration on
such an activity was subtly implied by
the eyeglasses the child wore.

“Creative?” exemplified the active
unfolding of personality through vari-
ous hobbies. A miniature easel with a
small oil painting offered an example,
and a country boy’s fishing line pro-
vided the transition from the backdrop
down to the table entitled “Things To
Do.” This was covered with numerous
handmade articles illustrating the di-
verse range of Opportunities.

Anyone who stOpped to observe the
display was handed a mimeographed
folder which continued the original ap-
proach of the booth with the advice, “If
you are bored, or only entertained, try
the ‘Fifth Freedom’: Recreation.”

A diagram on the inside of the folder
showed a theoretical map of “Leisure
Time Lane,” leading into the forked in-
tersection of “Boredom Boulevard,” to
direct the leisure-time down the “Road
to Happiness” into an ultra-modern

city, from which flags of different rec- 

reation activities were waving.

The folder concluded with a discus- f

sion of the increasing need for trained
leaders in the field, a list of some pro-
fessional positions, and so on.

The exhibit attracted a great many
viewers and was successful enough to
initiate some favorable comments and
much active discussion among visitors.

New Courses at Purdue

New specializations in institutional
and rural recreation have been added
to the industrial and community recre-
ation courses at either bachelor’s or
master’s level offered at Purdue [Uni-
versity, Lafayette, Indiana.

Students choosing the institutional

recreation curriculum also emphasize.
recreation in voluntary agencies as 1
part of their programs, according to.

5

Dr. Harry D. Edgren, professor of rec- 

reation leadership.

First Course at Phoenix

Phoenix College, Phoenix, Arizona,

has instituted its first course in recre- i
ation leadership, entitled “Social Rec-I

reation.”

Extension Specialist Appointed

Shirley M. Bessey, state extension
specialist at the University of Kansas,

has been appointed to an assistantship;

in the education department of the Uni-l

versity of Wisconsin. Miss Bessey has.
been assigned to the recreation curricu-:

lum while working for an advanced de-
gree in recreation during the 1956-57
school year.

 

MR. JENSEN directs student membership
activities for the NRA.

RECREATION

I

@2de emcee;

The National Recreation Association
is extremely interested in seeing the
reaction to our brand new section at the
International Recreation Congress,
“Recreation for the III and Handicap-
ped.” Up to this year, the section has
always been for “Hospital Recreation”;
but, starting with this Congress, we
hope to eliminate separate divisions of
recreation for our hospitalized and our
ill and handicapped population.

All the great advances being made in
community non-institutional recreation
are mainly for the healthy. If you think
about the many thousands in this coun-
try, who are hospital outpatients or are
homebound because of illness or handi-
cap, you will find very little is being
done for them.

I have been able to obtain a list of

only twenty-eight states providing rec- a

reation service for the homebound. Per-
sonally, I hope the very near future will
see community recreation leaders and
philanthropic organizations st a r tin g
very active centers for the ill and ban-
dicapped.* Since transportation poses
the biggest problem for such a center,
why not organize a corps of volunteer
drivers? Also, every community, big
city or small town, should not only have
small centers for the ill and handicap-
ped, but a trained volunteer service,
under professional direction, to enlist,
train, and schedule volunteer visitors
for these shut-ins.

At the same time these volunteers are
being recruited, trained and placed, an-
other small group could be making a
card index list of those who would bene—
fit from visitors trained in recreation.
These lists could be made with the help
of many organizations dealing with the
ill and handicapped, as well as from out-
patient lists of neighboring hospitals.

il- * ‘II-

We in recreation have a tremendous

* See articles, “What Can be Don'e for the

Homebound Child?” and “Help for the Home-
bound,” on pages 375 and 388 respectively.

 

MRS. HILL is the NRA consultant on

hospital recreation.

' OCTOBER 1956

 

Beatrice H. Hill

responsibility not only to educate but

to persuade nursing home operators to

give their patients recreation, not just
good food, good care, and a place to
exist. Nursing homes owe their resi-

dents a chance to live happily in the

home.
‘K‘ ‘Il' ‘II'

A question has perplexed me all sum-
mer: Is recreation a necessary function
in the average small general, medical,
and surgical hospital, where a. ninety-
seven per cent turnover in patients oc-
curs every five days? In New York
City there are seven general, medical,
and surgical hospitals with recreation
programs, which find recreation an im-
portant contribution to the patients3
welfare, particularly in reducing anxi-
ety either before or after surgery or
On the other
hand, I visited over two dozen small
general hospitals in Pennsylvania this
summer to find administratorsofelt that,
as they barely broke even, they simply
could not afford a recreation depart-
ment. I could not disagree with them,
for, after all, first things do come first.
And the 'first things in a hospital are

during convalescence.

doctors, nurses, food, and so on, down
the line. On the other hand, I observed
many patients, restless, bored, anxious,
who certainly could have used some
constructivediversion, particularly in
the children’s wards.

Isn’t there some solution? If there is
neither the salary or need for a full-time
worker, couldn’t several hospitals in a
hundred-mile area have one worker on
a regular basis to visit all the hospitals,
canvass the community for volunteers,
and train them to run a recreation pro-
gram in their hospitals? These volun-
teers could be trained and supervised
in recreation matters by the worker, but
their actual supervision could come as
an active duty. of any department al-
ready existing in the hospital.

I firmly believe that, if the recreation
consultant could not have her salary
paid by the combined efforts of a few
hospitals, it could be paid through the

community recreation program or as a

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

worthy donation by a fraternal or civic
organization.

Thoughts at Random

0 I hope that more and more camps
for the handicapped** will be organ-
ized. I 3

0 Did you know that internships are
now available in some hospitals for peo-
ple with a degree in recreation?

0 Did you know that there are literally
dozens of position open for recreation
people, particularly in Pennsylvania?

0 What are your thoughts“ on music
therapy? Should it be part of the rec-
reation department or its own depart-
ment in a hospital? “

** See “Boys and Girls Together-——- Handi-
capped and Able-Bodied,” RECREATION, June
1955, pages 260-1.

1' See page 377.

 

“PLAY SAFE"—BE SURE IT’S A

FlEXI
SWING SEAT

marked “FlEXI”

     
   
      
       
      

CHAMPION RECREATION EQUIPMENT. INE.

Standard and Custom Built Playground Equipmoni
Write for Literature
Highland Park, III.

P. O. 474

 

  

BUY at a BIG DISCOUNT

We sell every type of craft kit, materials and
tools at substantial savmgs to you.

WRITE FOR FREE ILLUSTRATED BROCHURE

Send Your Requisition For Our Quotations
Absolutely No Obligations

DEXTRA Crafts Cr Toys, Inc. Dept. R-l
1246 Commonwealth Ave., Boston 34. Mass.

HELP PREVENT

Sister Elizabeth
KE N NY

FoundaRon

National Headquarters o Minneapolis, Minn.

 

403

 

 

 

NEWS

If you are interested in any of
these products, write directly to
the manufacturer at the address
given. PLEASE mention that you
read about it on RECREATION
magazine’s Market News page.

 

) Decal signs, on city
owned trash receptacles
(the ones shown here are
used in South Pasadena,
California), caution peo-
ple against careless litter-
ing. The colorful atten-
tion-commanding decals—
made to order with a slo-
dlLP rm YOUR on (ma gan and cartoomype fig
« ures—are six by seven
inches in size, easily af-
fixed to trash containers. The Meyercord Company, 5323
West Lake Street, Chicago 44.

 

-

} Portavox public address
system is a simplified
light-weight device espe-
cially suitable for rallies,
games. carnivals, and spe-
cial playground events.
With rugged playground
duty in mind, Portav0x_ is
shock resistant and easily
portable by the top handle.
Some of the suggested uses: lifeguard service, traffic control
at special events, athletic events, and special rescue opera-

tions. Associated Designers, 35 East Las Tunas Drive, San
Gabriel, California.

  

I

p A new battery-powered
utility lantern is powered by
a two-in-one battery which
is its own battery case. The
lantern head ‘is attached to
the battery with two simple
screw caps—there are no
wires to connect or spring
contacts to make. Safety and
convenience are highlights of
this new windproof and
weatherproof lamp designed
for all types of outdoor and

sports use or for spare emer-

gency lighting. Burgess Battery Company, Freeport, Illi-
nms.

 

) Masquerade Party Make-Up Kits have been dewloped by
George Fiala, make-up expert for 'l V’s “.N’Iasquerade Party ”
and many other video favorites. Head and facial parts (if
latex rubber are realistic in appearance easy it apply, and

40-1

re-usable innumerable times. The larger kit contains two
sets of latex cheeks, two chins, four noses, pointed ears and
horns for devil ‘or elf disguises, bald scalp, three colors of
artificial hair, moustache, goatee, latex adhesive, five colors
of grease paint, black and brown make-up pencils, and com-
plete instructions. The smaller kit contains Indian make-up.
Topstone Rubber Toys Company, Bethel, Connecticut.

) Physical education
and recreation di-
rectors can now re-
ceive, free, the Har-
vard Table Tennis
Tournament Kit.
The kit, designed to
help increase inter-
est, enthusiasm, and
participation, in-
cludes: instructions and playing tips; action photos and
diagrams of game-winning techniques; ofiicial USTTA rules
and sections on organizing table tennis leagues and tourna-
ments; three official-type charts for scoring tournaments;
and a complete publicity campaign to build local interest
and excitement for the tournament. In addition, two attrac-
tive Harvard Gold Medals and engraved award certificates
for winners of the men’s and women’s singles.

Send your name, the name and address of school, com-
pany or organization, and number of tournament players ,
expected to Edmund Heller, Gold Medal Tournament Direc- 

tor, Harvard Table Tennis Company, 60 State Street, Boston 1'
9, Massachusetts. l

 

) Zeus Rolcut Paper
Cutter combines
safety and accuracy
in cutting anything
from tissue paper to
illustration board
without effort. It

 

wheel blade is enclosed to prevent cutting or pinching fin-

gers. The Crusader Company, Department 179, RC. Box:
368, Woodland Hills, California.

) For model railroaders, directions for making a sturdy'

train table and a peg-board wall panel for holding aCCBS'
sories may be obained from the Masonite Corporation. Ask'
for Plan Number Alli—328, Home Service BureaU, 511i“?-
2037, 111 West Washington Street, Chicag.O 2-

RECREATION _

 

“Time Call for Recreation”

The recreation department in St.
Louis, Missouri, has acquired radio and
television time to present its program to
the public. One radio presentation was
a one-act play on recreation, past, pres-
ent and future, written by Robert E.
Solari and Ruth Meyers of the depart-
ment. Free copies of this seven-minute
script for use by other recreation de-
partments are available from Mr. 50-
lari, Division of Parks and Recreation,
Room 330, Municipal Courts Building,
St. Louis 3.

America’s Heritage on Records

Four new Enrichment Records, based
on the Random House Landmark Books,
are now available on two LPs. New
titles are Ben Fraiiklin of Old Philadel-
phia. Lincoln and Douglas: Years of
Decision, Robert Fulton and the Steam-
boat, and The Panama Canal. A new
series of filmstrips is correlated with the
books and records. For information,
write Martha Huddleston, Director, En-
richment Teaching Materials, 246 Fifth
Avenue, New York 1.

“Wiggleproof” Movie

The Phantom Horse, new Japanese
film in Eastman color. passed the “wig-
gle test” and is the first foreign language
motion picture to be recommended with-
out qualification by the National Chil-
dren’s Film Library for exhibition to
children in all theatres.

The endorsement was voted after the
film was given a “wiggle test” before
eighty children of various ages and
social strata to determine their ability
to follow the action of a foreign film
with English subtitles. Although many
of the children could not read, the pan-
tomimic ouality of the film was suflicient
to tell the story and keep them en-
grossed. The film also received the
Family Medal-of-the-Month for July
from Parents’ Magazine. '

Depicting life on the northern island
of Hokkaido, The Phantom Horse shows
the close similarity in outlook, prob-
lems. and even dress, of these modern-
day Japanese to horse breeders in Wy-
oming, Kentucky, and Ireland.

Our Senior Citizens

A Place to Live, a new documentary
film about the problems of the" aged, is
based on a three-year study by the Com-
mittee 0n the Aging of the National So-
cial Welfare Assembly. The film (16mm,

OCTOBER 1956

black and white, sound, 24 minutes)
shows the need of the aged for prOper
medical care, companionship and rec-
reation. Procurable on loan from The
William S. Merrell Company, Geriatric
Film Library, Cincinnati 15.

Sports Films
The 1957 edition of the Sports Film

Guide lists over two thousand 16mm
sports movies, of which over five hun-
dred are available free of charge. Each
film listing shows the title, running
time, source, details of rental or pur-
chase, and a complete summary of the
film contents. The guide is available
at $1.00 per copy from The Athletic In-
stitute, 209 State Street, Chicago 4.

Music by Frank Ahrold

Frank Ahrold, summer playground
music instructor in Long Beach, Cali-
fornia, is the new director of the Roger
Wagner Chorale which recently record-

ed an album of “Folk Songs of the Old
World” for Capitol Records. Mr. Ar-

rold did the special arrangements, in-
cluding orchestration, for songs from
Norway, Denmark, Sweden, Germany,
and Spain.

Filmstrips for the Holidays

0 A new kit of filmstrips in color, called
the “Christmas Series,” acquaints chil-
dren with the origin of our Christmas
traditions and carols. The Christmas
Seal story is told from its interesting
beginning and stresses its importance
in health. Conservation principles are
emphasized, and recognition of famil-
iar Christmas trees is encouraged in a
filmstrip on the tree industry. The final
filmstrip creates an awareness of good
safety practices during the holiday sea-
son. The new kit is available through
the Jam Handy Organization, 2821 East
Grand Boulevard, Detroit 11.

o The Society for Visual Education of-
fers new filmstrips and 2’-by-2’ slides
for Thanksgiving and Christmas pro-
grams, including “Indians for Thanks-
giving,” a series of four color strips,
“The Christmas Story,” “Christmas
Around the World,” “Days of Won-
der,” and “Hymns of the Nativity.” A
free booklet with a representative illus-
tration from each offering, in addition
to complete descriptive information and
price is available from any SVE dealer

or SVE, 1345 West Diversey Parkway,
Chicago 14.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

  

 for every'
. .. RECREATION
ACTIVITY

 
  

  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
  
  
   
 

 

 0 transcription player
6

' ‘3 0 public address system

c

})

sf

' For every sound reproduction
‘ application in recreation halls,
’3 gyms, auditoriums, or summer
" ' camm, the Newcomb R-16CV
 does the job better, yet weighs
  less than 22 pounds. A separate
‘ I; microphone and phonograph
 . volume control permits mixing
 recorded music with the micro-
‘ 1‘  phone presentation. Variable
" speed control allows variable
., _.  tempo and pitch (from any basic
 speed setting). A quality heat
 and humidity resistant high
 " fidelity ceramic pickup is encased
" ‘ g. in a professional-type tone arm.
 _. Balanced-design amplifier with
. ‘ inverse feedback in combination
  with a fine ten-inch extended
' 5 range speaker give quality you'd
' never expeCt at its price. Newcomb
—" . is the "sound of quality since
I , 1937”. . . recognized by leading
we  school authorities from coasr
, coast to coasr.

I  . NEWCOMB VARIABLE SPEED

Exclusive Newcomb design gives
., . dependable continuously variable
- _- _. , control at all 3 speeds.

 
 
 
  

« Audio Products Co., Dept. 2-9

6824 Lexington Av., Hollywood 38. Callf.

I] Send free catalog of Newcomb
portable sound equipment.

[:1 Send name of our nearest
Newcomb distributor.

‘ _—_—-—-—H———_-————-

Fourth Avenue, New York 10. Pp. MUSICAL KNOWLEDGE AND SOME SO.
40. Paper $.50. CIAL ATTITUDES OF HIGH SCHOOL

, , , YOUTH (Report of P011 #44 of the
I‘UN A1\D FESTIVAL FROM THE UNITED Purdue Opinion Panel, May 1956),

STATES AND CANADA, Larry Else” P. c. Baker, K. B. Fitzhugh, R. W.

berg. Friendship Press, 257 Fourth , , ,
. . . 0. Heath, and H. H. Remmers. D1v1s10n
Avenue’ New York 10' Pp 48 $5 of Educational Reference, Purdue

Books & Pamphléts
Received

      

AMERICAN FOLK TALES AND SONGS, GAME OF DOUBLES IN TENNIS. THE, University, Lafayette, Indiana. pp.
Richard Chase. New American Li- VIE/illianrlrI Talk—gt and BruBcSeSSMOECl. 27_ Mimeographed $1.00.
brar'. 501 Madison Avenue, New enry Otan , ompanyv a 1' '
Yorlz 22. Pp. 239. 8.50. son Avenue, New York 17. Pp. 214. NEBV IDIZYCKOLSG; BESSHOEEEDEEEE’
o a . n . .
BIG RACE,T11E (The story of motor rac- $495 ' McEraw.Hi11 Book Company 330
ingls E1715! Rosemann With illus‘ GAMES FOR THE GYMNASIUM’ PPAY' West 42nd Street New York 30. Pp.
trations by Carlo Demand. Robert GROUND, AND CLASSROOMmaTdFllela 226. $4.00. ,

Bentley Inc., 8 Ellery Street, Cam- Stella S. Gilb. Hurst Printing Com- P R

bridge 38, Massachusetts. Pp. 88, pany, 257 East Short Street, Lexing- 1955 YEARBOOK—P “SK AND ECREA'

plus 128 full-page illustrations.$4.00. ton, Kentucky. Ninety cards. $2.50. TION PROGRESS- Natlonal Cgonference
on State Parks, 901 Union Trust

BOYS, CLUB AND DELINQUENCY, A—A GIRL SCOUT POCKET SONGBOOK. Girl . . .
Study of the Statistical Incidence of scouts of the USA, 155 E. 44th Bmldmg’ WaShmgton 5’ D' (3' PP-

Juvenile Delinquency in Three Areas Street, New York 17. Pp. 48. $.20. 48' Paper $3'00'
NOT BY MIGHT (One-act play of South-

El L?“iSVi"(beKemYCkY9 RO'SCOG'C. GOOD PHOTOGRAPHY' Fawcett PUblica- east Asia) Archie Crouch Friend.
“PM? Jr' CW ("kt UNVCTSIW: tions, Greenwich, Connecticut. Pp. h. P ’257 F h A ' N
aslllngton Square, l\ew York 3. 144 $75 5 1P "355, Curt venue, CW
Pp. 28. 3.50. GUIDE' T6 inOTOGRAPHING ANIMALS York 10. Pp. 40. $.50.
C‘UFORNM’S STATE PARK PROBABI— Sam Dunton. Greenberg: Publisher: OBgeli’eggiegénazlghggnogtiiclgsgi?’

Preliminary Report. Senate Interim 201 E 57th Street New York 22 . . .
CommIttee on Recreation, State pp. 128_ Paper $1.95. 310111131 EEtgét Eggiegifilfalhgébggzlé

Beaches and Parks, 3058 State Capi-
tol, Sacramento. 13972. Free. HEALTH INSURANCET-WHAT ARE THE 16. pp. 195. $6.00.
ISSUES? Publlcatlons Department,

COMPACT TREASURY 0F INSPIRATION’ Canadian Welfare Council 55 Park- OLYMPIC RUNNER (A Story Of the great
TIIE, Kenneth Seeman Ciniger, Edi- dale Avenue Ottawa 3 Or’ltario P days of ancient Greece), I. 0. Evans.
tor. Hawthorn Books, 70 Fifth Ave- 60 pa er $9100 9 . p. Sport Shelf: 10 OVCTIOOk Terrace:

' P ° ' New York. Pp. 256. $2.75.

nue, New York 11. Pp. 301. $3.95.

HOBBY TOOLS AND HOW TO USE THEM, .

COMPLETE BOOK OF FIRST AID, THE, Robert Gorman X_act0 Inc 4841 1001 FIRST NIGHTS (The FII‘St Quarter
John Henderson. Bantam Books, 25 Van Dam Street. Lon Igland'hit 1 Century of the Palo Alto Community
West 45th Street, New York 36. Pp. New York p ’95 $g75 y ’ Players). Palo Alto Community

' p' ' ' ' Players, 1305 Middleiield Road, Palo

341. 8.50.

CREATION or SCULPTURE, TIIE, Jules  Alto» Cahfomla- PP-44- P31935512?)-
Struppeck. Henry Holt and com. TEE, HOCKEY p13. 48 $25, COACHas ORGANIZING A COMMUNITY BAND. The
pany, 383 Madison Avenue, New MANUALHOC’KEY pr; 90 $75 Su_ American Music Conference, 332
York 17' pP-zoo- 58-00. perintendent of ,Publicaatiobs; The 20”}? lh/glicgigan Avenue” Chicago

. p. . ree.

CRIER CALLS, TIIE—A Drama for a Queen’s Printer, Ottawa, Ontario,
Verse ChOIr, DarlUS Leander Swann. Canada. OUTBOARD BOATING HANDBOOK, Hank

Friendship Press, 257 Fourth Ave- IF YOU MUST WRITE (Candid words Wieand Bowman- ATCO PUbliShing 7
Due: new York 10- Pp- 14- Set Of for those who do and those who Company. 480 LCXingtOD Avenueaf

C ten $1.25. yvogild play the Writing game), W. H. New York 17. Pp. 139. $2.00.
RYI’TANALYSIS — A Stud of Ci hers 0 nson, Philoso hical Librar , Inc., 1
and Their Solution, “glen Fguché 15 E3513 40th Stfeeta New Yolik 16, PERSOP} FOR EH13 (505;?ng OF: DIRlEgcs'I'd
Gaines. Dover Publications, 920 Pp. 98. 32.75. E?“ d HE-A oar 0T “CiglonaY k
Broadway, New York 10. Pp. 237. JUVENILE DELINQUENCY (Cartoons), Pur 862tt P venu§2 00r0y" ew or .
Paper 31-95- Charles Preston, Editor. Dell Pub- p. I aper ' ' - 4"-
DICTIONARY or DIETETICS, Rhoda Ellis, “Shing Company, 261 Fifth Avenue, PHYSICAL EDUCATION FOR CHILDREN, D.
Philosophical Library, 15 East 40th New York 16- Unpaged- $23 Cyril Joynson. Philos0phical Li-

Street, New York 16. Pp. 152. $6.00. LADY OF TIIE LIGHTED SCHOOLHOUSES, brary. 15 East 40th Street, New York
EDUCATION AND ART. UNESCO, United Tm'jt Lela 13- Stephens- Dora Sharp. 16- PP. 218- $54-75-

Nations, New York. Pp. 129. $5.50. 2617,N0rth,84‘th Street: Wauwatosa PLAYER’S HANDBOOK OF INSTRUCTION
Boom-tons GUIDE TO FREE Sum} 1?, W‘sconsm- PP- 32- Paper $100 ON BEGINNING BASEBALL, Dick Sie-
mens—Eighumnnual Edition,1956. P "5 pOStage' bert and Otto H- Vosel- Athletic In-
Educam” progress Service, Ram MAKING PLAYGROUNDS SUCCEED. New stitute, 209 South State Street, Chi-
dolph, Wisconsin. I,p_ 188. 85.00. York State Youth Commission, 66 cago 4. Set of seven pocket-sized

Beaver Street, Albany, New York. booklets $25-

52 FIN PLYWOOD HOME STORAGE Pp. 38. Single copies free; addi- pUBLIC AFFAIRS PAMPHLETS,

PLANS. Douglas Fir Plywood Assn ' . -
’ ttonal copies 3.15 each. SHY CHILD, THE (#239), Helen

ciation, 119 A Street, Tacoma 2 .
Washington. “has. 8.50- , MENTAL HEALTH PLANNING FOR SOCIAL Ross, THIS GROWING WORLD.

‘ ' ‘ ACTION, George S. Stevenson. Mc- 237 R L H 'lb
1‘ 0"“ pI-AYL'ITFS- Marga”! 1- )l’l’ltt- Craw-llill Book Company, 330 West belic )Ai'fai:sbethphletsfl22roEISStl

artlt, Dorothy Tinslt-y Daily, Bets- 42 ] Q
C. Wolfe. Friendship Prose, 257 $6150: treet, New York 36. Pp. 358. 23th$s215eeL lliew York 16. Bad], ppw
. . eac . -

406
RECREATION

 

RECENT COUNCIL-MANAGER DEVELOP-
MENTS AND DIRECTORY OF COUNCIL-
MANAGER CITIES. The International
City Managers’» Association, 1313
East 60th Street, Chicago 37. Pp. 34.
Paper $1.00.

RETIRING INTO A FULLER LIFE, Anthony
Salamone. Midwest Technical Publi-

cations, 6636 Clayton Road, St.
Louis 17, Missouri. Pp. 47. $.50.

SAILING ALONE AROUND THE WORLD,
Captain Joshua Slocum. Dover Pub-
lications, Inc., 920 Broadway, New
York 10. Pp. 294. Paper $1.00.

    
 
   
  
  

Covering the Leisure-time Field

 

recreation, public relations, and decen-

. tralized control Of recreation programs
Charles J. Vettiner. A New Horizon - -
, , are well worth co s de 1 .
of Recreation, 450 Armory Place, Louls- n l r ng

ville 2, Kentucky. Pp. 268. $3.95.

John W. Gilbaugh. Modern Educa:
tion Publishers, P. O. Box 78, Man-
hattan, Kansas. Pp. 93. Paper $2.00.

SCHOOL CAMPING AND OUTDOOR EDU-,
CATION, Dorothy Lou MacMillan.

  
 
  

One of the toughest problems in gov-
ernment today is how to bring essential
services to people who live outside in-
corporated cities. Counties were never
intended tO provide the same kind Of

Wm. C. Brown Company, 215 West
Ninth, Dubuque, Iowa. Pp. 160.
Paper $3.00.

f
SIX YEARS OF GROWTH IN A COMMU-
NITY PROGRAM. Rural Research In-

stitute, Publications Office, 500 Fifth
Avenue, New York 36. Pp. 35. Free.

SOCIAL SCIENCE AND FREEDOM—A Re-

port tO the People. Fund for the Re-

public, 60 East 42nd Street, New
York 17. Pp. 59. Free.

SPORTS INJURIES MANUAL for Trainers
and Coaches, Donald F. Featherstone.
Philosophical Library, 15 East 40th
Street, New York 16. Pp. 132. $6.00.

STOLEN GOODS (A one-act play on juve-
nile delinquency), Helen Kromer.
Friendship Press, 257 Fourth Ave-
nue, New York 10. Pp. 32. $.50.

Philosophical Libirary, 15

East 42):]. St., New York 16. Pp. 282.
$6.00.

TEACHING DENTAL HEALTH TO ELE-
MENTARY SCHOOL CHILDREN, Perry
Sandell. American Association for
Health, Physical Education, and Rec-
reation, 1201 Sixteenth Street, N .W.,
Washington 6. D.C. Pp. 32. $.75.

TREASURY OF CHRISTMAS SONGS AND
CAROLS, A, Henry W. Simon, Editor.
Houghton Mifflin Company, 2 Park
Street, Boston 7. Pp. 242. $4.95.

W0 SELF-SUPPORTING RURAL COMMU-
NITY CENTERS. Rural Research Insti-
tute, Publications Office, 500 Fifth
Avenue, New York 36. Pp. 31. Free.

HAT EVERY LANDLORD AND TENANT
SHOULD KNOW. Citizens’ Housing
and Planning Council, 20 West 40th
Street, New York. Unpaged. $.15.

OUR NEIGHBOR WORSHIPS (The char-
acter and history Of the synagogue).

Anti-Defamation League of B’nai

B’rith, 515 Madison Avenue, New
York 22. Pp. 31. $.15.

CTOBER 1956

 

services as cities; yet, today, people
who live in suburban fringe areas rural

9

Included are extensive and detailed
descriptions Of some of the unusual pro-
gram ideas developed in Jefferson
County. These include the youth am-
bassador program which takes teen-
agers on good-will trips to foreign
countries, teen-age clubs, and a junior
Olympic village.

Louisville and Jefferson County are

sections, and small towns must depend proud of their county recreation plan

upon county governments for all kinds

of services, including recreation.

Twelve years ago Jefferson County,

Kentucky, established a county play-
ground and recreation board under the
terms of the Kentucky enabling legisla-
tion, to provide needed recreation.
Funds were provided jointly by the
county government and the county
school board. For most Of those twelve
years, the operation of the program has
been under the direction of Charles
Vettiner.

In A New Horizon of Recreation, Mr.
Vettiner tells how Jefferson County’s
plan operates. He describes the key tO
its success as the COOperation of the
playground and recreation board with
neighborhood and community leaders,
and the planned sharing of costs be-
tween the county and local groups.

He likens the county board to the hub
Of the wheel and the local communities
to spokes. Working together they are
able to give residents Of the county the
kind Of recreation services they want.

Students of county recreation will
not find in this book all the answers
they seek, but it Offers solutions to prob-
lems as they arose within Jefferson
County, and it gives advice to the stu-
dent of county recreation. Mr. Vettiner
has an Unusual understanding of the
importance of grass-roots leadership
in the planning and operation Of rec-
reation programs. He understands that
public funds for recreation will always
need to be supplemented, that it is both
good financing and good public rela-
tiOns to share with people both the re-

sponsibility for program enrichment
and the cost of the program.

Readers will not agree with all of
Mr. Vettiner’s judgments, opinions, and
ideas, but they will certainly find them
stimulating. His ideas on schools and

and Mr. Vettiner’s new book ably de-
scribes its operation—David DuBois,

head of NRA Public Information

Service.

Handbook of Indoor Games
and Stunts

Darwin A. Hindman. Prentice-Hall,

Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey. Pp.
304. $4.90.

Any reader who OWnS a copy of Mr.
'Hindman’s earlier Handbook of Active
Games will most certainly order this
new collection. Like the former, this
book is beautifully organized. A spe-
cial innovation—and one which we ap-
plaud—is the detailed table of contents,
organized by type or class Of game,
each broken down by groups, as well as
by age level. It actually replaces the
usual index; however, this book also
has an index by game name, as well.

The publishers have used excellent
paper and attractive, very readable
type. The hard cover matches the cover
Of the previous book.

This collection is excellent and thor-
ough. We can give only one mild word
Of warning: Be very careful in using the
games under the heading of “Snares.”
They can backfire!

This book would be a fine Christmas
present for a recreation leader; and for
a wonderful present, Mr. Hindman’s
two volumes would be tops—Virginia

M usSelman, NRA Program Service.

Design for Outdoor Education

Edwin L. Friet and Del G. Peterson.

P. 5. Printers, Inc., 128 South Second
Avenue, Yakima, Washington. Pp. 30.
Paper, $1.50.

This pamphlet is a manual for teach-
ers and administrators who include, or

‘nI—v

 

plan to include, school camping as part
of the outdoor education program.
Based on many years’ experience, a
program in which all sixth-grade stu-
dents in the public schools in Highline,
Washington, will spend one week at
camp with their regular teacher has
been developed. This manual is the re-
sult of many years of development of
procedures and techniques for such
experiences.

One of its most valuable sections is
a detailed outline of public relations
for an outdoor education program. Par-
ent and community education is, of
course, essential to the success of such
a program. Samples of newspaper re-
leases and letters to parents are in-

eluded.

Policies of registration, insurance
and refunds, daily camp schedules, sug-
gestions for the teaching of outdoor
education and conservation, projects
and menus contribute to making this
manual a practical and useful one.

Why Not Survive?

Michael W. Straus. Simon 8. Schus-
ter, 630 Fifth Avenue, New York 20.
Pp. 272. $4.00.

“We have in America the natural re-
sources we need in order to survive with
a constantly improving standard of
living—if we are willing to use them
wimly.” This is the basic philosophy
proffered by the former United States
Commissioner of Reclamation and As-
sistant Secretary of the Interior. “To
achieve this common goal, there must
be realistic appraisal of our resource
reserves,” he states, and presents a com-
plete inventory of what we have in
terms of energy, raw materials, metal
and food resources. He gives the facts
on which a new set of rules must be
worked out by all the nations of the
earth, using conservation, importation,
and substitution to protect ourselves at

the poian where our resources at home
are wearing thin.

Make Your Own
Outdoor Sports Equipment

John Lacey. G. P. Putnam's Sons,
210 Madison Avenue, New York to.
Pp. 128. $2.50.

Do you know how to make a sidewalk
sailboat. ice-fishing shelter, catamaran,
rowhoat, houseboat, scooter, kites? Mr.
Lacey makes these things and many
others look easy-toodo, with clear and
simple instrttctions, sketches and dia-
grains. This is a how-to-do-it book with
projects that promise to be fun after
they are finished, as well as in the
making.I The author suggests many
source:- for obtaining efficient and eco-

403

nomical materials. Especially good for
use with boys’ groups.

All Outdoors

Jack Denton Scott. Stackpple Clim-
pany, Telegraph Press Budding, ar-
risburg, Pennsylvania. Pp. 268. $4.95.

Written with the charm of the essay,
these sketches are presented primarily
for the entertainment and information
of those interested in the world of hunt-
ing and fishing. Chapters cover: Con-
trolled Shooting, The Shooting Eye,
Think Like a Fish, A Sports Surprise in
Every State, Dog Data, Preserves and
Pheasants, and other intriguing topics.
Jack Denton Scott, who has written
many things on outdoor topics and cur-
rently conducts an outdoor column in
The American Legion Magazine, knows
how to be entertaining while presenting
facts about this particular brand of rec-
reation.

A Treasury of Christmas
Songs and Carols

Henry W. Simon, Editor. Houghton
Mifi‘lin Company, 2 Park Street, Boston
7. Pp. 242. $4.95.

Who can imagine Christmas without
carols? It is the season when people
who never sing during the rest of the
year raise their voices in an emotional
reaction to the Christmas festival and
all that it implies. The editor of this
book has collected an unusually gener-
ous album of Christmas songs—the
familiar and many others not so well
known—so that many selections may
be available instead of a few. It would
be hard, indeed, if not impossible, to
find another collection so complete.

The volume is made colorful and
beautiful by the exquisite illustrations
by Rafaello Busoni. (These could well
be used by a leader as a source of ideas
for Christmas designs, decorations,
costumes.) New piano arrangements
by Mr. Simon and Rudolph Fellner add
sparkle and interest. They are easy
enough to be played at sight by the
average amateur pianist.

Notes accompanying each carol pre-
sent information ——either useful or
amusing—about the carol, which can
be helpful in interpreting the spirit of
the song.

This is a truly worthwhile addition
to any musical library, and certainly
should be welcomed by the planners of
Christmas programs as well as by small

mformal grOUps. Community carolers,
please note!

FOOTBALL

.I’oorboll’s Greatest Coaches by Ed-
wm l’ope. Tupper and Love, 55 Fifth
Avenue. \‘rw York “1. Pp. 334. $3.95.

All football fans will be interested
in this collection of stories about men
who have been the builders of modern
football, including well-known names
of different eras, such old-timers as
Percy Haughton, Pop Warner, Bernie
Bierman, Frank Leahy, Knute Rockne,
and young moderns as Bud Wilkinson
of Oklahoma and Jim Tatum of Mary-
land. The twenty-eight men included
were chosen by actual vote of more than
fifty of the nation’s top sports editors
and columnists. Each coach’s distinc-
tive methods are a part of the story
about him.

Winning High School Football by
Charles V. (Chuck) Mather. Prentice-
Hall, Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey.
Pp. 276. $4.25.

Organizational material, strategy,
and coaching procedures give the in-
side story of the method that brought
a high school in Massillon, Ohio, fifty-
seven victories in sixty games during
the period Chuck Mather was coach.
Detailed discussion of offensive and de-
fensive skills for each position includes
tips and pointers on modern coaching
techniques.

 

 

 

INDEX OF ADVERTISERS

PAGE
All-Metal Tennis Table Company ........... -_ 367
American Playground Device Company .... ._ 399
Peter Carver Associates- _____________________ -_ 399
Castello Fencing Equipment ___________________ __ 397
Champion Recreation Equipment Company 403
Chicago Roller Skate Company  __-__s__ 365
Cleveland Crafts Company  401
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania  377 .I
The Copper Shop 399:
Thomas Y. Crowell __ ____.______m__-______---_ 366é
Dextra Crafts & Toys Company _____ __  403
The Fred. Gretsch Manufacturing Company. 395
H. 8. R. Manufacturing Company-______-___._ 367,
Harvard Table Tennis Company_______-__-______ 361,
Hillerich 8. Bradsby Company, Inside Front Covef'
Hillyard _______________________________________ ___ 383
Horton Handicraft, Special Services Division 36]
Jayfro Athletic Supply Company.___--__---.-___ 366
Monroe Company ___________________  _____ ___ 36§
Newcomb Audio Products Companye ____ “-4 40§
Rawlings Sporting Goods Company.-__.._-____ 399
The Ronald Press Company ________________ -__ 365
James Spencer & Company_-______--_____.____-__ 365
Square Dance Associates- ______ __- ______________ _- 367‘
Volt Rubber Corporation_ ________________ _- 397
World Wide Games-_,,_____-__--______,-__,_--_____ 37]
X-aclo, lnc. _________________________________ _.36'I-369l

 

“__n————‘
l

 

RECREATION‘

 

‘ Recreation Leadership Courses

HELEN M. DAUNCEY
Social Recreation

RUTH G. EHI.ERS
Social Recreation

ANNE LIVINGSTON
Social Recreation

GRACE WALKER
Creativc Recreation

Sponsored by the National Recreation Association

and

Local Recreation Agencies

October, November and December, 1956

Winfield, Kansas
October 15-18

Corpus Christi, Texas
October 22-25

Houston, Texas
October 29-November 1

Portales, New Mexico
November 5-8

Mobile, Alabama
December 3-6

Allentown, Pennsylvania

October 15-17

South Carolina Recreation

Society
November 12 and 13

Downey, Illinois
November 7 and 8

Miss Lillian Cloud, Division of Natural Science, Southwestern
College

Mrs. June Finck, Superintendent, City Recreation Division, Park
and Recreation Department

Tilmon J. Carter, Superintendent of Recreation, Parks and Rec-
reation Department

Dr. Joseph F. Dickson, Chairman, Division of Health and Physical
Education, Eastern New Mexico University

John T. Lovell, Assistant Superintcndent in Charge of Instruction,
Mobile Public Schools

Joseph W. Thompson, Adult Program and Membership, Young
Men’s Christian Association, 14 South 7th Street

Mrs. Elizabeth E. Rhame, Chairman, Social Recreation Workshop
Committee, South Carolina Recreation Society, 1915 Harden Street,
Columbia

Robert C. Boyd, Chief, Special Service, Veterans Administration
Hospital.

Attendance at training courses conducted by National Recreation Association leaders is usually open to all who wish to
attend. For details as to location of the institute, contents of the course, registration procedure, and the like, communicate with
the sponsor of the course listed abovc.

 

1.1 if for What, 31m, is)  s W 
for

Subteens . . .

o  o o o o  o a

. . Families

select books from your

GUIDE TO BOOKS ON RECREAT10N* 

and order them from

RECREATION BOOK CENTER

National Recreation Association, 8 \Vest Eighth Street, New York 11, New York

* Scnd for free copy if you don’t have one .

 

 

It’s actually easy to savewwhen you buy Series
E Savings Bonds through the Payroll Savings
Plan. Once you’ve signed up at your pay ofiice,
your saving is done for you. The Bonds you re-
ceive pay good interest—3% a year, compounded
half-yearly when held to maturity. And the
longer you hold them, the better your return.
Even after maturity, they go on earning 10 years
more. So hold on to your Bonds! Join Payroll
Savings today—or buy Bonds where you bank.

Safe as Amen‘c -;t
US Sat v2th Bond'si

 

 

ON OCTOBER 26, 1912, an ungainly bi-
plane swooped into a Michigan pasture like
an overfed duck and promptly nosed over on
its back. Its contents proved to be a teen-age
couple who got married as soon as they re-
gained consciousness.

This was the world’s first aerial elope-
ment.

Art Smith, the groom, happened to have
one of the country’s few flying machines be-
cause he had built it, with his own hands, at
age 15. And his parents had'mortgaged their
home to finance him. Their pride helped
carry him through years of failure to soar-
ing success as a famous early stunt flyer.

But he didn’t remain a barnstormer long.
In 1917 his pioneering skill was needed to
train our World War I pilots. Then came
America’s first air-mail service. And again,
Art helped break the way—though it eventu-
ally cost him his life.

As American as Tom Swift, Art Smith
was the farseeing and confident son of a
country that has always produced far more
than her share of sure-footed visionaries.
That’s a good thing to know, especially if
you’ve been putting some money into this
country’s Savings Bonds.

U. S. Savings Bonds aren’t backed by gold
'or silver alone. They are backed by the char-
acter and abilities of 165 million Americans.
That’s why they’re one of the world’s great-

est investments. Buy them regularly—and
hold on to them!

The U. 3. Government does not pay for this advertisement. It is donated by this publication in. cooperation with the
Advertumg (mount and the Magazine Publishers of America.

