J ,- 
TION ASSO

§:_£T1C5NAL RECRA

 

 

HILLERICH 8: BRADSBY CO., INC., LouisviIIe 2, Ky.

When writing to uur advertisers please mention human 03.

  
  
  

Edsel Ford High School, Dearborn, Mich.
Architect: Eberle M. Smith Assac., lnc..

Robbins lranbaund‘ Continuous Strip“ Maple Floor
installed by: Whitcamb-Bauer Flaaring, Inc.
and finished with Hillyard Floor Treatments

5, IfOIIbOUIId *F L o o R s

’MFINISHES

*a W m W W a./ Manufacturers and installers agree, famous

lronbound“ floors are best conditioned for lifetime service by the application of Hillyard finishes. Super-

lative Hillyard treatments help these fine floors retain their original beauty, smoothness, toughness, and

- ease of maintenance over literally generations of hard wear.

—lEADING AUTHORIZED IRONBOUND*
INSTALLERS CHOOSE HILLYARD FINISHES

The Akron Floors Co.
Akron, Ohio

E. P. Cuthrell Flaaring Co.
Birmingham, Ala.

National Floors Co.-
Bostan, Mass.

Cantan Flaars, Inc.
Canton, Ohio

Chas. H. Anderson Flaors, Inc.
Chicago, Ill.

Austin Flaaring Co.
Chicago, Ill.

The Iranbaund Ca. of Cleveland
Cleveland, Ohio

Whitcomb-Bauer Flooring, Inc.
Detroit, Mich.

Chas. H. Anderson Floors, Inc.
Kansas City, Ma.

A. 8. Rice Co.
los Angeles, Calif.

RoweIl-Southern Flaaring Ca.

Miami, Fla.

Chas. H. Anderson Flaars,

Minneapolis, Minn. - Inc.

Storm Flooring Co., Inc_.
New York City

Federal Hardwood Floor Ca.

Philadelphia, Pa.

R. l. Dresser
Raleigh, N. C.

Yaeger Flaor Company, Inc.
Rochester, N. Y.

Missouri Floor Company,
St. lauis, Ma.

Acme Floar Company
San Francisco, Calif.

Southern Hardwaad Co.
Spokane, Wash.

G. E. Weaver Co., Inc.
South Bend, Ind.

"' ‘I'. M. Reg. Robbins Flaaring Ca.

St. Joseph, Ma. 1‘

- Possoic. NJ. San Jose, Calif.

Branches and Warehause Stocks
in Princiaal Cities

OCTOBER 1957

 

THE MANUFACTURER
RECOMMENDS HILLYARD—

 
 
 

  
       
   
  
      
    

“'Inun “

‘Imlou-D‘

RObbil‘IS FLaanrNo COMPANY

«marl: mm.wrru a

'wr nu“
"It? '00. m

   

  

“ILLS m,“ mm.“

  

(AI-I some.
I...“
0.0- 0’” III->I-al

 

 
   
 
 
 

I mwm’rrumsrmmms

Evil-KI 10TH. 1984

 
    
 
  

mun-o
rr. Jansen, amount

 
  

  

' 'LL ll“. VISI-

"It may be of interest to you
that we have in our personal
contacts over the past several years, always recommended
the Hillyard Products and Hillyard Service, not only to our
floor installers across the country, but to architects,owners
and the like. I know several of our lronbound installers
use Hillyard’s exclusively. We always feel perfectly confi-
dent when we recommend Hillyard’s, as we know our cus-
tomer will be getting the best.”

HILLYARD, St. Joseph, Mo.

Without obligation, please have my nearby Hillyard
“Mointoineer®” (trained floor expert) show me the
treatments that will do most for my floors, while
cutting maintenance costs.

m Juan-a.

“ca-“heave one"

u-uuunlnl

m mnm. ‘l

    

No me ..................................................................................... ..
Institution .............................................................................. ..
Address .................................................................................. .,
City ...................................................... ..$tote ........................ ..
' - - - - - - - - - - m - - - m — — - — - Dept P-6
277

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

} DON’T FORGET UNICEF’S PROGRAM
IDEAS for Halloween. If you have not
received, as a member of the NRA, your
copy of their new The Trick is to Treat
along with your Membership Letter,
write to the U. 5. Committee for

UNICEF, United Nations, New York.

) A CHEMICAL MAY SAVE WATER FOR
CITIES according to American Municipal
News of the American Municipal Asso-
ciation. Covering a reservoir with a
thin layer of a chemical—hexadecanol
-——locks in the water, saving twenty-five
to thirty per cent of the water now lost
by evaporation, studies by the U. S. Re-
clamation Bureau show. The chemical
spreads automatically on the water’s
surface. Tests so far indicate it is non-
toxic, and the cost appears to be small
—-—less than sixty cents an acre of water.

} SINGLE COPIES OF EACH SUBJECT of
RECREATION Magazine Bibliographies
are available free at the NRA Consulta-
tion Center in the Municipal Auditori-
um, Long Beach, during the National
Recreation Congress. The collected set
of Bibliographies is also available. The

new, revised edition costs $1.00 this
year.

) TIIE TENNESSEE DIvISION OF STATE
PARKS has been found qualified to pur-
chase federal surplus personal property.
From best available sources, it is
thought that Tennessee State Parks is
the first park and recreation agency in
the country to be so qualified.

The basis for such qualification is
contained in the recent amendment to
Public Law 655, “Federal Surplus Per-
sonal Property is Available for Civil De-
fense Purposes. . . .” The Tennessee
State Director of Civil Defense found
state parks eligible because “of thc vast
and strategically located state park
acreage and facilities spread through-
out Tennessee which would be invalu-
able in the event of local, regional, state
or national emergency.”

) TuE RECOMMENDATION was made re-
cently by Charles Silver, president of
the New York City Board of Education
that the city’s schools remain Open
every day of the year for recreation pur-
poses. In line with this, the community

278

recreation program in Long Beach,
California—National Recreation Con-
gress city—is a municipal-school coor-
dinated program. See article on page
252 of the September RECREATION.

} THE LARGEST EDITION of the Play-
ground Summer Notebook ever issued
by the NRA Program Department—the
1957 edition——— was sold out completely
by June 15. The department regrets
that many leaders had to be disappoint-
ed, and urges that orders for the 1958
edition be sent in by May 1 at latest.

} HAVE OUR READERS FORGOTTEN that it
is their own letters which make up the
Letters-to-the-Editor pages in RECREA-
TION? Isn’t any of the magazine con-
tent worth discussing? The bottom of
the barrel is now in sight, so think it
over. There seems to be a general trend
toward letting George do it, but ac-
cording to an old Chinesc proverb:
“No lettee, no pagee!”

W'orld Neighboring

The art of good neighboring must be
applied in the world community, as well
as in our villages and towns, if every
man is to live in peace and harmony
with other men in this age of rapidly
contracting distances. In this month of

United Nations Day and Week (Octo-
ber 24 and October 20-24), therefore,
it might be well to ponder this truth and

work it into our programs. It is said:

O The art of neighboring has at its core a
willingness to take people pretty much as
they come; to let them, within broad limits
of tolerance, be themselves and live their own
lives. . . .

It was as a neighbor that Robert Frost
wrote in “The Star-Splitter,”

If one by one we counted people out
For the least sin, it wouldn’t take as long
To get so we had no one left to live with. . . .

We know these things about neighboring,
we Americans. We have learned them by ex-
perience: respect for privacy and for indi-
vidual differences; the sort of undemanding,
outreaching good will that gives friendship a
chance to grow; readiness to give help when
help is needed, regardless of personal liking
or not liking; and readiness to pool our
efforts as neighbors on behalf of the larger
home we share.

Are not these the arts of world neighboring
also ?-——Bonaro W. Overstreet in “A World of
Neighbors," National Parent-Teacher, J une
1957 issue.

0 If there is any solution to the problems
of living in friendship and in dignity with
Others, and we must surely hold fast to the
faith that there is, that solution will be found,
not in weapons or in charters, but in the hearts
and minds of men.—-—Dr. J. B. Kirkpatrick, Di-
rector of the School of Physical Education,
McGill University, in an address to the On-
tario Recreation Association.

0 Know you one another and thus you fulfill
the law of peace. Share your songs. your
music, your art, your sports, your “heart’s de-
sire,” and you know you have shared what
has greatest lasting value. Begin with what
we have in common and the rest gems less
important.—-—Howard Brancher in Treasury of
Living.

0 Thc East and west approach life from
quite dill'erent angles. . . . When either has
the vision to welcome the other’s contribu-
tion, then the solution of one of the most
fundamental of human tensions will be in
sight.—-—Sir Harry Lindsay, “Colour Tension,”
Ifibbert Journal, London, July, 1955.

0 Together is a lovely word
Getting together is a beginning
Being together is happiness
Thinking together is unity
Working together is success. . . .

Quoted from What's Cookin’ published by the
Recreation and Park Commission of East
Baton Rouge Parish, Louisiana, Aug. 1, 1953.

The Symbol That Means High Standards

You have probably noticed the ABC symbol which is carried regularly
on our Contents Page. This symbol mcans that RECREATION Magazine
meets the high standard required for membership in the Audit Bureau of
Circulations; that it has eliminated gucsswork from statements of circula-

tion information.

We must know how many subscribers we have, who they are and what
they do, so that we may plan each issue to meet reader needs and intcrcsts.
AND so that our advertisers may be assured of reaching the vital concerns
of audiencc, and of receiving rcliable circulation facts. A regular ABC
audit establishes these facts for us, and helps us to build a better magazine

for you.

The ABC symbol is an honor emblem! Wc are proud to display it,
and happy to observe October as ABC Month!

If you are an advertiser as well as a reader and would like to see a
copy Of our latest ABC report, please let us know.

 

RECREATION

OCTOBER 1957

 

Editor in Chief, JOSEPH PRENDERGAST
Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON
Editorial Assistant, AMELIA HENLY
Business Manager, ALFRED H. WILSON

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Recreation Administration, GEORGE BUTLER
Program Activities, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

Vol. L. Price 50 Cents No. 8

0n the Cover *
A PUEBLO POTTER. Recreation activities can

do much to help preserve the cultures of the many
peoples who make America their home. One of the
ways this can be done is hy displaying their crafts,
arts, and other products, and by means of folk fes-
tivals, participating in their games, music and folk
dancing. (See “Folk Dancing—The Old and the
New” on page 284.) Here, a living demonstration
calls attention to the beauty of American Indian
art. Photo: New Mexico State Tourist Bureau.

Next Month

“An Outsider Looks at Recreation,” hy Harold W.
Williams, associate director, Office of Community
Scrvices, U. S. Air Force, will certainly be a discus-
sion piece. Mr. Williams is an interesting thinker
and has written a straight-from-the-shoulder article.
In addition, “Know Your Adolescents,” a summary
of the Girl Scout survey of adolescent girls; and an
excellent article on space for recreation hy Robert
D. Carpenter, head planner for the Detroit Metro--
politan Regional Planning Commission.

Photo Credits

Page 285, (upper left and right) Globe-Democrat,
St. Louis, Missouri, (center and bottom left) New
Mexico State Tourist Bureau, Santa Fe, New Mexico,
(lower right) Department of Commcrce and Indus-
try, Baton Rougc, Louisiana; 288, (upper left) U. S.
Army Photo, (lower left) Chicago Park District,

(upper and lower right) Oliicial U. S. Air Force
Photo; 289, Recreation and Parks Department,
Charlotte, North Carolina; 294-6, U. S. Army Photos.

RECREATION is published monthly except July and
August by the National Recreation Association, a service
organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 8
West Eighth Street, New York 11, New York. is on
file in public libraries and is indexed in the Readers’
Guide. Subscriptions $4.00 a year. Canadian and for-
eign subscription rate 34.50. Re-entered as second-class
matter April 25. 1950. at the Post Odice in New York,
New York. under Ac: of March 3. 1879. Acceptance
for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in
Secrion 1103. Ac: of Ocrober 3, 1917, authorized May
1, 1924. Microfilm5 of current issues available Uni-

versity Microfilms, 313 N. First Street, Ann Arbor,
Michigan.

Spare Representatives: Mark Minahan. 168 North
Michigan Avenue, Chicago, Illinois; Seymour A. Rob~
bins & Associates, 101 West 55th Street, New York 19,
New York;The Jules E. Thompson Company, 681
Market Street, San Francisco 5. California.

Copyright, 1957, by the
National Recreation Association, Incorporated

Printed in the U.S.A.
«$913

' Trade mark registered in U. S. Patent 05cc.

 

OCTOBER 1957

 

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

CONTENTS

GENERAL FEATURES

The Recreation Policy of the U. S. Air Force
(Editorial) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Col. Roland E. Sliker 282

Folk Dancing—The Old and The New. .Sarah Gertrude Knott 284

RecreationonParade . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

ADMINISTRATION

Public Relations in Recreation. . . . . . . . . . .Richard M. Baker 300

Notes for the Administrator. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 303
Research Reviews and Abstracts. . . . . . . . . . .George D. Butler 304
PROGRANI

We Celebrate Halloween—But Do We Know Why? . . . . . . . . . . 287

Adapting Dancing for 'SeniorOCitizens. . . . .Cyrus S. Grossnlan 289
Display and Decoration Ideas. . . . . . . . .Mary Frances Sargent 294

How to Make a Mosaic (How To Do It!) . . . . . Frank A. Staples 298

REGULAR FEATURES

Things You Should Know . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 278
Letters . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ...280
Reporter’s Notehook . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 288
Classified Advertising . 5‘. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 302
Books and Pamphlets Received, Magazine Articles. . . . . . . . . . 306
NewPuhlications.. . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . 
IndextoAdvertisers. . . . .  . . . . 

Recreation Leadership Training Courses. . . . . . .Inside Back Cover

l'lowToDoItI................................SeePrOgran1

279

SQUARE
DANCE
ASSOCIATES

Freeport, N. Y.

{Me/tend

Expert Oral

Instructional

SQUARE DANUES
COUPLE DANEES
AND MIXEIIS

Simple progressive

TALK-THRll-WALK-THRU

method used in thousands

FOOT TAPPING MUSIC

Records for

for all ages

m

of schools

m

-tthythms
-l-‘olk Dances

~Singing Games I

-P

lay Party

rm
CHILDREN

SQUARE
BOX 644

Name

Address
Chy

280

prekindergarten
through 3rd grade

DANCE ASSOCIATES
FREEPORT, N. Y.

 

  

"‘:-'::':3:-'-‘ Readers .’ You are invited to send letters for this page
to Editor, RECREATION, 8 West Eighth Street, New
Y orh I I—so that your ideas, opinions and attitudes
may be exchanged with others on the wide range of
subjects of concern to us all. Here is your chance to
agree or disagree with the authors of our articles.
Keep letters brief—not more than 250 words.

Terminology
Sirs:

John C. Tanno, a recreation leader in
the Phoenix, Arizona, Parks and Rec-
reation Department, submits the word
“discardia” in place of “scrap craft.”
John is the president this year of the
Arizona Association of Health, Physical
Education and Recreation.

HENRY T. SWAN, Superintendent of

Recreation, Phoenix, Arizona.

Encroachment
Sirs:

Thanks for the June issue of RECREA-
TION.

My struggle to protect the parks of
Wilmington has been long and arduous
but is beginning to bear fruit. Instead
of planning to go through six parks and
injure a seventh, they [the highway
authorities] are now down to four and
it is just possible that I will save still
another and get them to listen to reason
. . . so, you see, perseverance tells in
the long run!

MAURICE DUPONT LEE, President,

Board of Park Commissioners, Wil-
mington, Delaware.

RECREATION’S Birthday

Sirs:

Some years ago we were informed
that “life begins at forty.” More re-
cently, we have learned via television
that “life begins at eighty.” What does
this mean for RECREATION, the maga-
zine of the recreation movement, as you
so aptly expressed it in your editorial
(April 1957) ? In mortal terms you are
beyond the midpoint of the customary
three score and ten; but we should not,
and cannot, measure the life of a maga-
zine in such a limited way.

Rather, let us say, “You have reached
the first fifty.” Let us think of RECREA-
TION as a mature symbol and spokesman
for a movement which has grown to a
dynamic new concept of life. We are
but at the threshold of a recreation-cen-
tered form of society whose wishes,
needs and expressions are beyond the

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

—The Editors.

limits of our imagination. Only future
generations can measure the signifi-
cance of our humble beginning. a

The few pennies which those con-

gressmen gave to the District of Colum-
bia in 1906 “to teach children how to
play” have multiplied to over two hun-

dred million pennies in 1956 to teach
all mankind how to live in this era of
increasing leisure time. And Congress
is doing for the District of Columbia
what thousands of legislatures, town
councils and boards of aldermen are
doing for states, cities and counties
throughout the nation. Yes, throughout
the world, too.

We respect RECREATIdN. It has be-
come sort of a bible for the thousands
of dedicated leaders who are searching
for new ways of doing new things, new
ways of doing old things, or successful
ways of doing anything. Though all of
us will not be around to celebrate your
centennial issue, we can be sure that as
you enter your “second fifty” you are
doing so 011 a foundation unfettered by
the whims of chance or the vagaries of
the moment.

Please accept our heartiest congrat-
ulations to the magazine and its staff.

MILO F. CIIRISTIANSEN, Superin-
tendent of Recreation, Washington,

D.C.

Helpful to Staff

Sirs:

April RECREATION contains an arti-
cle, “Notes on a Summer Experiment,”
which provokes my interest. Not since
Grace Coyle’s “The Group Worker in
the Recreation Center” (March 1951)
has there been an article which is as
helpful to staff volunteers assigned to
groups. If reprints of the “Notes” are
not available, may I please have per-
mission to mimcograph the statement
for use with my study committees and
for distribution to staff members in our
youth recreation agencies?

I am grateful to Mrs. Keat because

RECREATION

she has “done-it-herself.”
MRS. MARY HAIGHT, Staff Executive,
Group Work and Recreation Divi-
sion, Community Council, Portland,

Oregon.

Letters to Joseph Prendergast
Sir:

On behalf of the Department of State
I wish to eXpress appreciation to you
and to the National Recreation Associa-
tion for extending a leave of absence to
Mr. James A. Madison so that he could
visit Pakistan under the auspices of our
International Education Service.

Mr. Madison has performed an im-

portant service, both to the United
States and to Pakistan. Our Foreign
Service posts in that country have been
high in the praise of Mr. Madison, cit-
ing, of course, his obvious professional
competence but equally, if not more im-
portant, making particular mention of
his generous and friendly manner which
endeared him to the local population
and paved the way for fruitful and
valuable discussion and planning.

We appreciate your cooperation on
this project and wish to commend Mr.
Madison for his distinguished service.

FREDERICK A. COLWELL, Chief,

American Specialists Branch, Lead-

 

with America's Newest Playground Sensation

JUMPING JACKS

* IT'S SAFE

* NQ INSTALLATION
PROBLEM

* No MAINTENANCE
REQUIRED

 

 

A STATIONARY VERSION OF THE POGO STICK. AND'IT'S SAFE!

Here's the answer to your constant appeal for something new and different at the
playground. You should see the kiddies. and the teenagers too. lining up for a chance
at this newest playground sensation . . . JUMPING JACKS. Watch their smiles grow
broader. and listen to their shouts of glee as they bounce up and down and twirl
around at will on the Jumping Jacks. No wonder it meets with instant approval of

both. recreational directors and children. alike. And . . .

it's safe. The full extent of

the vertical travel is only 4 inches. lt's rUggedly constructed and ‘stationary. Easily
installed and no maintenance required. Attractiver decorated in multiple colors.
Write today for details. Give the kiddies something new . . . something to satisfy that
youthful urge for novel action and healthful exercise. Give them JUMPING JACKS

and watch them go. glow and grow.

WISE ENGINEERING BO.

165 DELANCY STREET
NEWARK 5, N. J.

Designers and manufacturers of unusual playground

 

and recreational equipment

OCTOBER 1957

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

ers and Specialists Division, I nterna-

tional Educational Exchange Service,

U. S. Department of State, Washing-

ton, D. C.

* * * *
Sir:

The significant contribution of the
National Recreation Association to the
recent Ninth Annual California Recrea-
tion Conference has been mentioned
verbally to several representatives of the
Association; however, I have been look-
ing forward to eXpressi'ng our gratitude
to you by letter.

Dr. Paul Douglass presented one of
the finest general session addresses that
I have had the privilege of hearing. He
presented a great deal of information
but, most of all, inspired us to creative
approach in the solution of personnel
problems.

The effect on the conference of Wil-
lard C. Sutherland was evidenced on
many occasions. As a platform guest
and speaker preceding Dr. Douglass,
as a panel member in several sessions
of the conference, and through personal
interviews with individuals in the con-
ference, he was able to influence the
results of our discussions.

John Collier carried a major load in
the program planning. We have re-
ceived many comments on the quality of
almost all the sessions. It was a privi-
lege to have Helen Dauncey, James

Madison and Mary Quirk with us.

STERLING S. WINANS, Director of
Recreation, State of California Rec-
reation Commission, Sacramento.

* * * il-

Sir:

On behalf of Christ Church House,
we would like to thank you very much
for the help you have rendered us in se-
curing leaders for recreation and group
work. Our thanks go out to you, to Mrs.
Binger and to all connected with your

Association.

NIKITAS CHRYSOSTOM, House Direc-
tor, Christ Church House, New York
City.
* * * *
Sir:

Our department has been visited re-
cently by two representatives from the
NRA, Mr. Westgate and Mr. Hay. In
both cases these gentlemen showed a
sincere interest in our programs and
gave much of their time in discussing
our local problems.

On behalf of the Anne Arundel
County Recreation Department I would

like to thank the NRA for its coopera-

tion and interest.

WARREN W. KERSHOW, Director,
.Department of Recreation, Annapo-

lis, Maryland.
281

 The Recreation Policy

0f the  States  Force . . . . Col. Roland E. Slikerl

DURING WORLD WAR II, when members of the military

establishment were concentrated in large numbers at
temporary sites and were moved about rapidly in further-
ance of the tactical pattern, the psychology of their lives
was one of “transiency.” In their off-duty time they sought,
and were given, mass entertainment and diversions. Gener-
ally, there was not time in which to cultivate and harness
individual leisure-time interests and skills, with the result
that military and civilian agencies tried to do practically
everything “for” these peeple.

Today, the situation has changed radically. Air Force
personnel do not now seek merely to be entertained and
diverted. They react as settled, but alert and vigorous, citi-
zens. In the main, they are skilled, widely-traveled, respon-
sible, want-to-learn people. A large percentage are mar-
ried and want the best for their families. They possess a
variety of leisure-time interests and skills and are capable
of assuming large responsibilities for planning and carry-
ing out their own recreation programs under imaginative
stimulation and leadership. In brief, their recreation has
become a creative art requiring professional management.

The United States Air Force is convinced that whole-
some recreation is a fundamental part of the American way
of life, and is determined to provide self-rewarding leisure-
time Opportunities comparable in terms of variety and qual-
ity to those offered in the most progressive civilian com-
munity.

The Air Force’s conviction and determination rest on two
simple, basic premises, First, proper recreation activities
improve morale, job performance, character growth and re-
tention. Second, the Air Force is sensitive to its responsi-
bility to the nation for returning to civilian life men, women
and children who have continued to grow and improve as
citizens.

A significant concomitant of this second point is that
skills, interests and attitudes developed in Air Force rec-
reation will be of value to community leaders upon the re-
turn of Air Force personnel to civilian life, thus aiding in
the improvement of community life and accelerating the
spread of the American recreation movement. Obviously,
the Air Force does not distinguish between community and
military recreation, but rather recognizes their concepts to
be correlative and basically identical.

To achieve its recreation goals, the Air Force is support-
ing its recreation program with commensurate sums of
operating funds and giving high priority to the construc-

 

COLONEL SLIKER, a graduate of the Air War College, is chief
of the Air Force Personnel Services Division.

282

tion of modern facilities. It has learned, however, that the'
provision of facilities and funds, without resourceful, ef-'
ficient management, is not enough. Further, the Air Forcel
realizes that requisite management cannot be accomplishedI
by transient amateurs but demands the acquisition of pro-
fessionally trained experts. It is necessary, therefore, to
establish a progressive recreation system built around ex-
perienced civilian leaders, on civil service status, who can
give major assistance in planning and supervising a crea-
tive program for an entire base community; in making the
most productive use of facilities and funds; in capitalizing
on the leadership and skills of the members of the military
community in “helping themselves”; and in providing de-
pendable continuity in collaborating with the leaders of
adjacent civilian communities in expanding the opportuni-
ties for Air Force people to participate as partners with
their civilian neighbors.

The requirements and advantages of such a system are
now being interpreted widely throughout the Air Force. At
the time of this writing four major commands have em-
ployed eXperienced professional recreation rmanagers who
are assisting in the deve10pment of base recreation depart-
ments. In addition, the National Recreation Association
is cooperating fully and effectively in the Air Force’s plans
for the enrichment and expansion of recreation programs
and opportunities on Air Force bases and in adjacent civil-
ian communities. This collaboration includes interpreta-
tion of the career recreation service of the Air Force to
colleges and universities and to the recreation profession
of America, extensive efforts to enlist individual profes-.
sionals in the Air Force recreation service, and the training
of volunteer leaders in specialized activities.

In all of the interpretation and development now going
on, the Air Force is aware that in time some of its command
and base recreation managers may accept openings in civil-'
ian communities and agencies. In the judgment of the Air
Force, an interchange and free flow of recreation leadersI
will be not only possible but both desirable and normal,
since thc leadership standards and program concepts of Air
Force and civilian recreation are basically the same.

In summary, the three key points of Air Force recreation
policy are: (1) the Air Force wants for its people, and he-L
lieves the nation should want, recreation programs and‘
opportunities equal to the best in the nation; (2) the same
high quality of “management” is required in Air Force
recreation as is demanded in the many carefully organized
systems of defense; and (3) the Air Force desires to be a
progressive partner with all other major segments of the
American recreation movement. I

RECREATION“

  
 

~ GET ENTHUSIASM!

HARVARD TABlE TENNIS TOURNAMENT

IN- YOUR SCHOOL, PLANT OR RECREATION PROGRAM

Everyone plays rn a Harvard '  siriul “slim-Is touiiiizlt' KIT
Gold Medal Table Tennis Tourna- ' . . r:'°'“."..'f::TT::'*:‘T*T'I‘T"*TTTTT'

ment . . . because everyone enioys
this exciting event that serves more
players, in less space, without any
permanent installation and at lower

cost than most other school sports.

We will send, ABSOLUTELY
FREE, the Harvard Tournament Kit

containing everything you need to
organize your own full-participation
tournament: Harvard Table Tennis
Teacher with instructions, rules and tour-
nament tips; 2 Tournament Charts; com-
plete publicity program and tally sheets.

FREE . . . for your winners, Harvard Gold

Medals and award certificates when you
complete the tally sheets. Mail the coupon

   
  

Q .-

,!_ ..

,1:

++++¢F+O
I

I
4-

4. +45-

.J

'-lI- soot- .I'DIOII 

""""1'++

.. crud
tact unr- 11+ ‘
4 ‘11‘14§-°+*'

“-§s+-#¥+f

nun-*IQ-t-II‘+
9‘- l

 

 

 

 

beIOW today.  ...:.: Ill '
W 1113th TENNIS. co. 60., STATE, 51. qus 10H, .9. MASS... :
Gem'emen: R'm We plan to start our tournament on

In order to run a table tennis tournament please , . , .

send us the FREE Harvard Tournament Kit. There w'" be approx'mmelY—pamc'pams‘
SCHOOL OR ORG.______—_________._ We do , do not ofier table tennis all year.
NAME—m

POSITION___—_.—___._____ Table Tennis is part of our___________program.
STREET 8. NO.————-———————-—————————— . .
CITY_________ZONE__STATE_______ ] There are___.__.____in our school or orgamzatron.

OCTOBER 1957 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 283

Folk Dancing —
the Old and the New

Showing the part the recreation leader can play in helping to preserve
the traditional dances of our nation. The folk dancing of many nations,
incidentally, can make an excellent United Nations Day or Week observ-

ance. UN Week begins October 20, UN Day is the 24th.

THERE HAS been a challenging folk-
song-and-dance-activity movement
growing in this country during the last
two decades. We are now much more
alive to the value of our rich and varied
folk songs, music, and dances than we
were when the National Folk Festival
originated in 1934. There is general,
current interest in the question, “What
folk songs, dances and legends can we,
in the United States, claim as our own?”
Each year, during the five years that
the festival took place in Washington,
D. C., gay and colorful folk dancers and
singers from some thirty states assem-
bled in our nation’s capital. Most were
from rural communities. Prominent
among the groups who originally took
part were Indians, British, Irish,
French, Germans, Spanish-Americans
and Negroes, who had inherited their
songs and dances from forefathers mak-
ing their homes here in early days.
Some had created New World songs
and dances based upon the old patterns.
From the beginning, the festival also
featured worksongs and, other lore of
our cowboys, lumberjacks, sailors,
miners and canal builders, who sang
as they blazed the trails, sailed the seas,
or did other work necessary in a young
and expanding nation.

This rather clear-cut pattern grew
more complicated, however, as it be-
came evident that no longer could the
programs include only older Ameriean
groups. There would be value also in
claiming, cherishing, and trying to pre-
serve the cultural manifestations of the
newer citizens coming to our shores.

The last nine festivals, held in St.
Louis, have included Jewish, Polish,
Scandinavian, Creek, Lithuanian, Ital-
ian and Filipino participants and their

 

MISS KNOTT is founder and director of
the National Folk Festival.

284

heritages. However, there has been con-
tinued emphasis, as far as possible, on
those folk traditions which have been
longest rooted in America.

Until the end of World War II, the
development of folk festivals, and the
teaching of folk songs and dances for
recreation purposes was gradual. Local
and state festivals were on a modest
scale; but when peace came and the
long tension lifted, a widespread en-
thusiasm burst forth in unparalleled ac-
tivity and in giant square and folk
dance festivals, especially in the West.
The spirit was contagious, and soon
there were square and folk dance feder-
ations in a number of states, following
the lead of California.

For the past ten years or more, each
festival has been a law unto itself, each
reflecting the special interests of the
leaders. It has been difficult to keep the
emphasis where it belongs, to make folk
festivals reflect the history of our own
country and the heart beat of our own
people. It has been more difficult to
avoid having them become a hodge-
podge reflection of many nations, not
genuinely expressive of our own.

Standardization has been encouraged
by certain groups. Musical recordings
have pushed “live” musicians farther
and farther into the background. So-
called “hillbilly” music floods television
and radio, confusing the picture and
in many instances replacing genuine
folk music, even in states where the
traditional music abounds.

Although the situation is somewhat
discouraging to those who have spe-
cial interest in genuine tradition, it is
encouraging and hopeful to those who
can really appreciate the over-all pic-
ture. As long as there is hope, plans
can be made to channel and help con-
trol the interest to hold and revive the
roots of our folk culture.

Sarah Gertrude Knott

Those who look beneath the surface
can see the influence of three kinds of
present-day leaders interested in folk-
lore. If they would join hands for the
common good, our folklore could be
preserved. The three kinds of leaders
are:

The Purist. He believes that traditional
expressions should not be touched un-
less it is possible to present them in
their original state—what he considers
the genuinely authentic form. The pur-
ist is, of course, highly important be-
cause he helps to set a goal at which
to aim. ‘Vhile a festival seldom alto-
gether measures up to his standard, it
comes ncarcr because he exists.

The For-Fun-Only Leader. He has no
regard for folk expression except to
meet immediate needs for recreation
and fun. Often this kind of leader has
no qualms about changing traditional
forms, has no special knowledge of the
past or potential future value of any
phase of folklore. However, if this type
of leader does no more than lighten the
load and relieve the tension felt today,
he is still serving a very real purpose.
The Middle-Ground Leader. He finds
real satisfaction in following the tradi-
tional as closely as possible in form.
substance and spirit, allowing for the
inevitable changes which unconsciously
come about to make folk creations better
meet the needs of the present.

This middle-ground viewpoint is the
most logical one to follow, since folk
traditions have never remained static.
Yet, unless folk songs, dances. legends,
and other lore have certain characteris-
tics, they have no right to be classified
as folklore. Unless they are genuine.
they are not the reflection of the spirit
or cultural background of the race or
nationality that created them; they are
not basic cultures. Unless they measure
up to the (Continued on page 286)

RECREATION

Left: The Cotton Blossom Sing-
ers, from Country Life School,
Pincy Woods, Mississippi. Negro
folklore still forms the chief rec-
rcation for several thousand stu-
dents who work their way
through this vocational school
which was estahlislted by Dr.
Laurence Jones. When the day’s
work is finished and they need
recreation, they use the Negro
singing games, spirituals, work-
songs, legends, riddles, supersti-
tions, traditions, as well as the
lively American square dances.

 

. . Ir

 

rein-

— I_-- u!- .—

Above: Ozark folks teach their children early in
life to dance the special “Ozark Jig.” Dances such
as these are a part of the annual National Folk Festi-
val. The United States has a better chance than
most countries to revive its folk legacies. Thousands
are having fun with folk dances and songs recently
learned and appreciated, especially city dwellers.

Below: Tennessee singing games, Agricultural Extension
Division, Mountains of Tennessee. The singing game con-
tinues in this state because of the influence of Fred Colby
of the University of Tennessee, who has made folk activi-
ties for farm families a lifetime interest. He has proved
that, with a little leadership, they can serve a real purpose.

 

The American Indian has a ceremonial for every incident
in life from birth to death. Many of these still have mean-
ing for-the Indian. The “Maidens” Dance” or “Crown
Dance,” for instance, still marks the social debut of the
Apache girl. Here, the Mescalero Apache tribe of New
Mexico presents the dance on a hill which overlooks the
Gallup inter-tribc ceremonial grounds in New Mexico, an-
nual trihal meeting place for powwows and festivities.

Spanish dancers and flower girls at the Santa Fe
Fiesta in New Mexico. The Spanish-American folk-
songs of that state are taught for recreation purposes
by singcr Jenny Vincent, in cooperation with the
local agencies and schools. Our folk traditions have
never remained static. They change with the times.

 

Acadian hoys and girls prescnt
a French answering-hack song
in Ahheville, Vermilion Parish,
Louisiana, during one of the
preliminary folk festivals which
lead up to the Acadian Biccnten-
nial Folk chtival program. It
has become increasingly impor-
tant that we preserve also the
cultural manifestations of the
nation’s newer citizens along
with those hrought hy our earlier
settlers. Morc and more people
from other lands have heen in-

cluded in community folk fetes.
l

 

genuine form, they are not" likely to
last and will go the way of all fads.

There are many more problems. now
than when the National Folk Festival
was originated, yet there is more chal-'
lenge—more definite knowledge of the
value of folklore and of the festival
movement. Both are considered im:
pOrtant now in most countries of the
world.

A resolution passed by the Eighth
International Folk Music Council which
met in Oslo, Norway, in July, 1955—-
with thirty-one nations represented, in-
cluding the United States—was recent-
ly sent to all countries of thc world. It
emphasized the importance of folk tra-
ditions for social and artistic purposes,
as a basis for artistic creations and as
a medium through which we might
achieve better international understand-
ing—and peace. It warned of the dan-
ger of these basic cultural forms passing
away before a new civilization and
urged all education, recreation and cul-

tural organizations to collect and record

In the United States, it will undoubt-
edly take the conscious effort of the
three types of leaders, as well as that of
organizations which have the proper
setup to reach down into the communi-
ties. They must work cooperatively to-
ward developing a well-planned, con-
tinuous program designed to dignify
and build pride in traditional forms and
show the folks who have inherited them
that they have not lost their usefulness
for recreation and education purposes.
It is highly important that such a pro-
gram be developed and carried on in
rural areas and small towns where the
traditional forms are being most neg-
lected by the peOple to whom they
especially belong. Just now, in our
country and in most others, it is the city
dwellers who are much more interested
and active in the utilization of folklore.

It is doubtful that many of the newly
created songs and dances springing up
at present, more city-made than coun-
try-born, will ever build the kind of

cultural foundation to influence the

Teaching is one of the necessary ways
to make folk traditions meet present-
day needs. There is a quality and style
—~not quickly, if ever, acquired—which
new folk singers and dancers can get
Only from association and learning di-
rectly from the older persons who have
inherited it. There are many dancers
left who have special styles of square or
folk dances, typical of their own partic-
ular regions. There are singers who
have a style of singing which belongs
only to those who have known the songs
long and sung them all their lives. There
are Negro, Polish, Spanish, French,
Jewish, Italian, German, and other
groups, old and new Americans. whose
renditions of their traditional lore re-
fiect the inexplicable spirit of the race
or nationality of the creators. They are
being too widely overlooked by recrea- '
tion leaders, schools, churches, farm or-
ganizations and others who would profit
from using the traditional along with
newer or different kinds of recreation.

Cannot the old and the new go hand

them and to make use of them now. future. in hand? I

Thc (lay it arrives boys and girls of all
shapes, sizcs and agcs miraculously
appear from every dircction. Childrcn
love thc thrill of bouncing and flying
through thc air on a Trampolinc.

And they like the fact that thc basic
jumps arc so easily mastcrcd. They'rc
experts in no timc at all.

Trampolining is good for thcm, too.
Proviclcs cxccllent all-around condi-
tioning cxercise. It’s the favoritc new
recrcational activity at camps, Y’s
community centcrs, schools, and
playgrounds.

Nisscn Trampolincs bounce bctter
longcr. Arc sturdily constructed
to take’ it and last. Thcrc’s a modcl
and sizc to fit your nccds at a
pricc to fit your budgct.

AND IF IT ISN’T A N IT ISN’T A TRAMPOLINE“

See your sporting goods deoler or write to—

NISSEN TRAMPOLINE COMPANY
200 A Ave. N. W., Cedor Rapids, Iowa

NISSEN TRAMPOLINE OF CALIFORNIA
479 W. 61h Street, San Pedro

‘Reg: U.S. Poi. Off.

 

286

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. RECREATION

/' terror. No one believes any more that
evil spirits lurk the shadows, that
witches mount their broomsticks and
fly into the night—but it’s fun to pretend

ALLOWEEN is one of the seasonal cele- :5

brations, known by many names in /

many lands, that has come down to us

       

from the shrouded past. In one form
or another, it has been celebrated for I to believe, once a year, at Halloween.
more than five thousand years. ll ll A l I
- .. 99 .. Have You Tried . . .?
Meaning hallowed or holy eve- developed on this night. -
“lugs” Halloween marks the ending Of In the eighth century as Christianity A D ance of the Harlequins-‘1‘“ emit'

ing figure for a party theme which de-
fies the ghosts and spooks of Halloween
is that of the masked Harlequin, who
centuries ago came into being in Italian
and French comedies, as the spirit of
mystery and intrigue. Attired in his
brilliant many-colored costume, often
of Spangled tights and tri—cornered hat,
he has continued through the years to

symbolize the true spirit of a masquer-
ade. Halloween, then, is the ideal time
to invite this masked charmer to cast

his spell over your festivities.
“Holly” and “Harley,” the Harlequin

twins, can be made of black construc-

the harveSt Season 331d {he commg Of spread, November first was designated
Wmoter' The .fall’ Wlth Its. haryest 0f by the Church as a day for honoring all
fru1ts and grains, was a logical time for Of the lesser saints, the .1101), men and
feasting. It also incorporated ancient the martyrs Whose records have not
WC“Ship 0f the elements’watera Wind, survived. As was often the case, merry-
lire and! mos} Of all: the Sun_Whl_Ch making and feasting preceded a serious
Included sacrifices, rituals, and belief holy day; and the ancient customs, eu_
in supernatural forces for good and evil. peretitiene and 1e eende have become in_

Mueh 0f the Halloween felklere and termingled in our cultural background.
superstition stems from the DI‘UIdS, a 0m. “triek_er_treatv stems directly
Powerful religious order in aneient from the old custom of children making
Gaul, Britaln, and Ireland credited With the rounds of the countryside in quest
magical powers. The building of sacri- of “seupeakes,” apples, nuts and money.
{leial bonfires (the fires Prebably l“eP' Their original song was something like:

resented the sun) was a Druid custom A song for a SOHLmke
at that season. glsong {91‘ a soul 1 k tion paper and gay carnival—colored
, ease give us a son -ca e
The modern prank of chalking the For a Veal-{01- a soul, crepe paper-* Hang them 011 the walls:

and use a huge mask of black construc-
tion paper across one corner of the
room, to set your theme. Draped'crepe
streamers and assorted gaily colored

backs of passing strangers results from Through the centuries, feasting thee
an Old cusmm Of boys 50mg through ceased to be a part of Halloween except
the Streets Of the town markmg the in the symbols still used in decorating

backs of strangers and the doors of ___pumpkine, eemstalke, gourdsa apples

houses with white chalk to signal the __and the collection of “goodies” in_ balloons can complete the scene.

end of “The White God”——warm sun. stead of souleakes' Flameproof crepe paper should be
People believed that on this hallow— Halloween has become a community used to PTOVIde a brllllantly eOlOred

background throughout and to assure
safety for all. A four-color scheme will
create a gay carnival air. Avoid dull,

ed 6‘73: the Sphits Of those Who had left social event, largely through the nation-
the earth prematurely, or from uncertain Wide egerts of local recreation depart_
causes: roamed the {lelds and marShesa ments, instead of a night of superstitious

the paths and deserted lanes. It was uninteresting colors.

Figures for both boy and girl Harle-

 
 

also believed that for forty-eight hours W- Va. 1

after the commencement of this night . 1 . " qums can be made of several dlamond

the souls were released from purgatory, 311d tnangular Shapes: Out from bla.0l<

free to revisit their old homes, and that ' ‘ mat StOCka and secured 011 the back Wltll
cellophane tape. Cut odd—shaped hats,

everything possible should be done to
make their visit welcome. Dressing up . n
like ghosts, goblins, witches, and other
supernatural beings stems from this.

The missing gates and gateposts sup-
posedly had been borne off by the de-
parted souls, winging their way through
the gates of death to the life beyond,
or else they were stolen by evil spirits.
This accounts for the vandalism which

and slant on the head at an angle. Trim
both figures with gay little masks and
bright diamonds of gummed crepe. A
neck ruff for each can be made from
Hameproof crepe. Add masks, and even
guitars or mandolins cut from gay

papers, to the walls. I

 

* Dennison materials are manufactured for
such uses.

 

OCTOBER 1957 287

 

 

Contest judges and Army officials look over entries in the finals of the
Second All-Army “Operation Service Club” Contests at Fort Myer, Virginia.
Judges: (left to right, foreground) Howard Jeffrey, American Recreation Society;
G. Ott Romney, President’s Council on Youth Fitness; Jackson Anderson, Ameri-
can Association for Health, Physical Education and Recreation; seated, left to
right, background) Theodore Bank, The Athletic lnstitute; Marie-Louise Van
Vecten, American Red Cross; Amelia Henly, RECREATION Magazine. Army per-
sonnel: (standing, left to right) Pat Abernethy, Special Services Division; Lt. Gen.
D. P. Booth, Deputy Chief of Staff for Personnel; Maj. Gen. Guy S. Meloy, Jr.,
Chief of Information; Maj. Gen. R. V. Lee, Deputy The Adjutant General; Col.
Louis W. Jackson, Chief of Special Services Division; Col. William Spicer, Post
Commander, Fort Myer; Esther Walsh, Spccial Services Division. Winning
entries: first place, Granite City Engineer Depot Service Club, Illinois; second,
Neckarsulm Service Club, Germany; third, Fort Niagara Service Club, New York;
honorable mention, The Riviera Service Club, Taegu, Korea, and Army Service

Club #7, Camp Sendai, Japan.

European sojourner, Grace Walker,
NRA drama and creative recreation
specialist, is working with recreation
leaders in the Netherlands, under the
International Educational Exchange
Service of the U. S. State Department.

\Veleome visitor at NRA headquar-
ters: Arthur Todd, NRA field repre-
sentative, now working, on leave of
absence, with the Air Force in Europe.
He attended an official Air Force con-
ference in IVashington and returned im-
mediately to Germany.

 

Speeial award for his “outstanding
contribution to the recreation move-
ment in America” is presented to Col.
Roland E. Sliker (right), Chief of Air
Force Personnel Services Division. by
Joseph Prendergast, NRA Executive
Director. Brig. Gen. John S. Hardy
(center), Deputy Director of Military
Personnel, looks on. See Colonel Slik-
er’s editorial on page 278 of this issue.

Consultant in recreation and group
work to the newly-organized chional
Health and Welfare Council of Mctro-
politan Kansas City is Mrs. Verna Rens-
vold, well known in the recreation field.

 

Chicago chess players now have a modern new open-air pavilion through the
generosity of chess player Laurens Hammond, chairman of the board of the
Hammond Organ Company. It is located right on the lake front in Lincoln Park,
on the site where players have convened for more than thirty years for serious
concentration on this age-old game, and arords playcrs protcction from sun and
rain in a satisfying setting for chess. The pavilion is open on all sides and covered
by a semicircular pitched roof. It contains five tables with set-in chess boards,
and adcquate space for players and kibitzers. Additional boards have becn set
in the sea-wall along the sides of the pavilion. An unusual feature is the provision
for night lighting with protected, set-in lights operated by an automatic time clock.
The pavilion has already won an award for excellence in architecturc and a citation
for craftsmanship.

288

Recent returnee to the United Statcs.
James A. Madison, NRA field repre-
sentative, is shown conferring with Col.
L. l... Layden. Air Forcc Pcrsonnel Serv-
ices, at L'SAFE headquarters in Europe,
about his visits to air bases under
USAFE auspices. In a sccond part of
his thrcc-month stay abroad, Mr. Madi-
son conducted scminars for recreation
workers in Pakistan under the sponsor-
ship of the U. S. Statc Dcpartnicnt (see
letter on page 281).

RECREATION

 

DANCING is a most enjoyable form of recreation; how-
ever, since moderate physical activity is important for
the usually sedentary senior citizen, it is necessary to adapt
and simplify the folk and square dances for this group.
Most oldsters think they would rather sit and play cards
or bingo or watch TV than get onto a dance floor. Once
they’ve tried it, however, they’ll like it, and the two equally
important objectives, fun and therapy, will have been
achieved. Make the test of success how many participate,
rather than how expertly a select few agile ones can do
their stuff. Some leaders are too prone to turn out exhibi-
tion teams, no matter what the age group. The leader has
a selling job to do on those who, because of timidity, self-
consciousness, lack of confidence, hesitate to join the fun.
They very definitely won’t if they have to compete with
“experts.”
Who, then, should dance? All who are able. However,

the leader must remind the group that anyone with a car-
diac or foot condition or any other physical disability or
infirmity should ask his physician’s advice before at-
tempting dancing.

Concomitant with aging are lessened vision, hearing,
wind, agility, coordination, and the patience and/or the
ability to listen, concentrate and learn. Your program will
be successful in the degree that the dances are modified to
accommodate these impaired faculties. It can be done.
In New York City, alone, there are more than a dozen
golden-age clubs with regular weekly folk and square dance
programs and they are just as popular everywhere else.
While ballroom dancing, which is less strenuous, is an excel-
lent form of exercise too, folk and square dances call into
play larger muscles. Often those individuals who have done
no ballroom dancing can be interested in folk and square.

What kind of music should be used? My preference is for
records. They have excellent music and are a “constant,”

MR. GROSSMAN has conducted more than six hundred pro-
grams, since 1954, in modijied folk and square dancing for
golden-age clubs and blind, deaf and mentally retarded

groups.

OCTOBER 1957

Adapting Dancing

for Senior Citizens

1

Participation in folk and square dancing for
this group can be increased and the full flavor
of the dances retained by careful simplification.

Cyrus S. Grossman

you know exactly what to expect. While a piano player
would be a big help if certain parts of a dance had to be
learned and reviewed separately, all our modified folk and

square dances are so easy to do that they do not need to be
learned piecemeal.

What kinds of dances should be done? Certainly some
of each kind for variety’s sake. If you have mostly women
in your group, however, stick to the circle “no-partners-
needed” kind and couple dances in which the footwork is
the same for both partners. They’re easiest to do and every-
one can participate. Squares are more involved and strenu-
ous and require a caller. ,

A volunteer can be a successful dance leader. He need
not be able to play an instrument or read notes; he need
not even be an experienced dancer although this would be
a definite advantage. He should have a good sense of
rhythm, a love for dancing that communicates itself to old-
sters, the kind of personality that clicks with them—and
patience. If, also, he is adept at adapting dances to meet
their needs, he can do a bang-up job and will find the work
very satisfying. No dance leader, however, can hope to do
even a passable job with any dance unless he knows both
music and footwork thoroughly.

Be Your Own Choreographer

Leader, dancers and non-dancers alike can collaborate in
this most rewarding activity. Probably among your chair-
bound ones are those who used to love to dance but can no
longer do so because of some disability. For them, helping
to make up a dance will dissipate some of their frustration
in no longer being able to whirl about. It is not difficult
and can get to be very exciting; but it does take time and
experimentation.

Choose a dance with a good beat. It might be an old-
time waltz which has never been done as a circle or couple
dance, or a currently popular number. If it’s already being
done as a folk or round dance, if possible have it demon-
strated for your group and then let members try to modify
it. Sometimes little has to be changed. For the fast turns,
the complex routines and so on, substitute those that are

289

 

easy to do, such as the swaying of the arms and the body,
clapping, stomping, just walking or marking time in the
dances that follow. Perhaps a square dance club in your
community will do these dances for you so that you may
see how in some cases, such as the “Virginia Reel,” “Potch,”
“Teton,” only a few changes were needed. 0n the other
hand, in “Vira” I made up my own routines completely.
Your dance leader, if he is a folk and square dance enthusi-
ast, will, from time to time, find dances suitable for use
of the oldsters “as is.” Two such dances are “Chimes of
°Dunkirk” and “Ach Ja,” and for that reason they have
been included.

General Rules

For uniformity’s sake, start all circle and couple dances
moving to the right, except the “Varsouvianna.” When you
demonstrate a dance pick a poor dancer as your partner
to prove how easy it is to do. Always be right there in their
midst if it’s a circle dance. The use of words such as “les-
son,” “teacher,” “class,” “instruction” should be avoided.
You have a “dance leader.” See that there are chairs
around the immediate dance area for your dancers to use
between numbers. Allow adequate rest periods, and re-
mind the group that if anyone suddenly becomes tired he
is to sit down immediately.

Do a minimum of advance teaching; try to include it all
in your demonstration. Talk as you dance! In “Potch,”
for instance, you can have them do the dance without either
advance explanation or instruction. All I do after I have
them in a circle is to say, “Face right, and we’ll start with
the right foot. Just do as I do.” Away we go, and by the
end of the second cycle on the record they all feel like
veterans. Where L or R are not indicated in a dance de-
scription it means that either foot may be used. In any
couple dance where a lady takes a gent’s part, have the
taller one do so; and be sure the “gent” has some striking
identification visible, fore, aft, and in profile, for all to
see—a paper hat, epaulets, or a sash.

Do not ask your dancers to remember sequences. Spcak
or call them as often as necessary, while dancing is undcr
way. Note particularly that in both “Potch” and “Tcton,”
at the end of each cycle, there is a breather for a couple
of notes. This not only servcs as a rest period between
cycles during a dance, but gives a respite to anyone who

got mixed up during the cycle. Any modified dancc that
has such a breather is the better for it.

Teton Mountain Stomp

(United States)
RECORD: Windsor #761511

Introduction: Eight beats—All join hands and spread out
wide.

Measures: 1-2—Moving to right, step (R), close (L), step
(R), stomp  3-4—Moving to left, step (L), closc (R),
step (L), stomp (R) . 5—Moving to right, step (R) , stomp
(L). 6—Moving to left, step (L), stomp  7-8—Mov-
ing towards center, take four steps forward. 9-10—Moving

away from center, take four steps backward. 11-12—Re-
peat 7-8. 13-14—Repeat 9-10. 15-16—Marking time, take

290

four steps in place—and dance is ready to start over again
at 1-2. Entire dance is done a total of eleven times.
Comments. A very lively “no partners needed” circle dance,
easy to learn. Music is fast, so short steps should be taken
throughout. Entire dance is done with hands joined in a
circle-—-at no time do dancers let go—and all face center
of circle during the entire dance. All steps are to the right,
left, into the center of circle or backward from it. The foot
that “stomps” is always the same foot that starts the next
part by moving in the opposite direction.

Varsonvianna

(Swedish)
RECORD: Windsor #7615B

Measures: 1-4—Introduction, each couple faces forty-live
degrees to left in Varsouvianna position with gent a little
to the left of his partner. 5-8—To left, two slides, three
walking steps (L,R,L) and turn to right. The turn to the
right is ninety degrees and as it is done gent moves slightly
to the right of his partner. 9-12—To right, two slides, three
walking steps (R,L,R) and turn to the left. The turn to the
left is ninety degrees and, as it is done, gent moves slightly
to the left of his partner. 13-14—To left, three walking steps
(L,R,L) and turn to right. 15-16—To right, three walking
steps (R,L,R) and turn to left. 17-18—Repeat 14-15. 19-20
-—I{epeat 15-16.

At the end couples have turned left and are ready to
start the dance again at 5-8. Entire dance is done a total
of seven times.

Comments. Slow, graceful, waltz-time couple dance. Easy
to learn.it Since footwork is same for both partners, lady
may take gcnt’s part. Dance may be sung to words of “Put
Your Little Foot.” Each of the couples stays in thc Var-
souvianna position during entire dance, dancing by itself
and having nothing to do with any other couple except that
all couples are going in the same direction at tl1c same time.
Experienced dancers usually progress in the line of direc-
tion in a circle around the room, but for a golden-age begin-
ncr’s group, if the length of the hall permits, progress in a
generally forward direction as in Diagram 1. With a
good lead couple it is easy for the othcrs to follow because

—u-—

 

" As a learning device, these words may be sung to the melody. or
spoken to the time of the music: “Now you slide, and you slide, and
you one, two, three, turn. Now you slide, and you slide, and you one,
two, three, turn. Now you one, two, three, turn: and you one, two,
three; turn. And you one, two, three, turn; and you one. two, three,
turn.

AND DANCE STARTS
ALL OVER AGAIN

 

STARTING POINT.
COUPLES LtNE UP ONE

IN BACK or ANOTHER,
ABOUT 5 FEET APART?

Diagram I

LINE OF DIRECTION

RECREATION

LINE OF DIRECTION

 

FINAL POSTION.
1wo COUPLES FACING
EACH OTHER.
2
Q
a
g; E E : :
spam-me posmow. a If f  1
TVIO COUPLES, u. ' I : :
SPREADOUTWIDE. ,3 653 I
2
3
Diagram 2 Diagram 3

they are right in back, and this format is eye-appealing to
both dancers and spectators.

Vira

(Portugese)

RECORD: Kismet #137A

Measures: 1-4—Introduction, two couples in starting posi-
tion as in Diagram 2. All join hands, spread out wide;
face right. 5-12—Circle right six long slow sliding steps,
starting with right foot, as though skating; stop and bow
towards center; face left. 13-20—Circle left, six steps as
above; starting with left foot, stop and bow; drop hands
and form left-hand star. 21-28—Star to right, six slow
walking steps, drop hands. 29-36———Star to left, six slow
walking steps, drop hands. Dancers should be back at start-
ing point.

Take both hands of own partner. Gent is now facing line
of direction. Steps for rest of dance are faster. Each couple
dances by itself, but both couples go in the same direction
as in Diagram 3. 37-40—Each couple takes three steps,
raising knee on each step, gent moving forward and lady
backward; end with dip. 41-44—Reverse direction (gent
back and lady forward) and take three steps as above; end
with dip. 45-48—Repeat 37-40. 49-52—Repeat 41-44. Drop
own partner’s hands, all join hands in a circle, spread out
wide, and dance starts again at 5-12. Entire dance is done
a total of three times.

Comments. Dance is for two couples but may be done by
three in same way. Slow, waltz time, graceful, easy to do.
Ladies may take gents’ parts but must remember to go for-

ward on 37-40 and back on 41-44.

Potch Tanz
(Isreali)

RECORD: Kismet #1373
“No Partners” Version

Introduction: Four chords—All join hands, spread out
wide, face right.

Measures: 1-8—Circle right, eight steps, starting with right
foot. 9-16—Reverse direction, taking eight steps to left.
17-18—Drop hands, take two steps into center. 19-20——
Clap hands three times. 21-22—Take two steps back to

OCTOBER 195?

place, still facing center. 23-24—Fold arms across chest and
stomp three times; drop arms. 25-32—Repeat 17-24. 33-40
—Place arms high above head and, by yourself, make one
complete turn right in eight steps, drop arms. Everyone is
now facing center. 41-48———All join hands again and sway
bodies (left to right, and so on) until ready to start dance
again at 1-8.

Couples “Change Partners” Version
Introduction: Couples, every gent with lady on his right,
form circle.

Measures: 1-20—Same as above. 21-22—Take two steps
back and couples face each other; for example, gent faces
his own lady. 23-24—Same as above, except that couples
are facing each other. 25-32 — Repeat 17-24. 33-40——
Couples are facing each other. Gent moves about a foot to
his lady’s left, she does not move, and they oin both hands
and spread them out wide, and, as a couple, they make one
complete turn in eight steps. 41-48—Both drop hands, fac-
ing center, gent passes his lady, bowing as he does so, she
does not move, and he goes on to the next lady. All now join
hands again and dance starts again with everyone having a
new partner. Entire dance is done a total of four times.
Comments. Slow, very easy-to-do circle dance with both “no
partners” and couples “change partners” versions. Former
can be done without any advance demonstration or instruc-
tion. All steps in this dance are “strut” steps. In measures
1-8 and 9-16 dancers must be cautioned to both face and
walk in direction they are going. They can learn this by
walking single file in a circle, then extending one hand in
front and the other in the back, joining hands with person
ahead and in back, and continuing to walk that way in the
direction they are going.

Chimes of Dunkirk
RECORD: RCA #45-6176 .

A circle-type dance for couples, of the “change-partners”
type. In includes clapping and stomping and is easy to
learn. Ladies may take the gents’ parts. If may be done in
conventional fashion. Instructions come with the record.

Ach Ja

RECORD: Folk Dancer #1110

Also a circle-type dance for couples of the change-partner
kind. It is a singing dance which can easily be learned and
here again ladies may take gents’ parts. Dance may be done
in conventional fashion. Instructions come with the record.

“Ach J a” and “Chimes of Dunkirk” are both very popular
with senior citizens groups. I

 

The above listed records may be ordered through
your local dealer or you may obtain all of them from
Kismet Record Company, 227 East 14th Street, New
York 5; or Square Dance Squares, Sulnmerland,

California.

In ordering be sure to give the name of the record
company, the number of the record, and the name of
the dance. Records range in price from about $1.00
to $1.50. All the records listéd are ten-inch 78rpm.

291

 

Beereatim

 

0]
Paradt

 

I
I" "' - PRESIDENT DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER telegrap

to Joseph Prendergast, executive director of

 

Joseph Prendergast, wilh Betty Jo Mandlin representing N . l R . A . . _
the children who enjoy New York City’s parks, aecepls " anona -ecreauon SSOClanOn'

firs] National Reerealion Monlh proclamation from “During June, Nationa] Recreation 310ml],

Mayor Robert Wagner. Many other mayors and thirly bl A . .H d. l . u t.
governors issued proclamations urging all eilizens to take “umera e mermans w] “eel: he” 3 en Ion

a part in the recreation aelivilics in their own eomrnunilies. ward recreation in its many diverse farms9 each

familiar to some or as yet unexperienccd by 0th
It is my hope that our citizens will use some
their hard-earned free hours to enjoy the unpa
leled recreational facilities of our land. In so do
they will enrich their daily lives and contribute
thc health of the national community.”

With the wholehearled support of Brigadier General Innumerahlc Americans took their President
Stephen B. Maek, men of Shaw Air Force Base. Soulh
Carolina, showed “100% improvement in parlieipalion
and inlerest over the previous year’s operation“ in their lamation of National Recreation Mouth was
observance of a second annual National Recreation Moulh.

his word. In communities, large and small, the pl

starting point for launching summer playgroi

m-———----..r¢.-._  activitics; for editorials, news stories, radio .
-- . TV shows; for special displays in store windu
‘ banks and public buildings; for events honor

men and women who had helped to build and s

   

din-—

     

port recrcation.

Some of these men and women had donated pa
or centers. Sonic had givcn ycars of vigorous lc
crship to the fight for better facilitics. Some 1
special intercsts—thc drama or arts and crafts:.
all had a common concern for recrcation that ea
ed them NRA citations. During a visit to the may!
olhce. the dedication of a ballficld, the opening
a dance festival or a dinner to celcbratc the ion
ing of the recreation dcpartment, these leaders:
ceivcd handsome red, white and bluc scrolls l

292 It sens.”on

National Recreation Month 1957 made more
'tizens aware of the importance of recreation—
1d helped them get better acquainted with recrea-
on facilities in their communities. By taking a
90d look at what we accomplished this year we

In make next year’s observance even more effec-

ve in telling the recreation story.

gnified national recognition of their achievements.
Service Clubs, religious groups, veteran, and fra-
rnal organizations received citations too. Kiwanis,
ptimists, Junior Chambers of Commerce, Lions,
loose, Junior League, American Legion, Council
i Jewish \Vomen, Boosters, Elks, Civitan, Rotary,
FW——-the list is almost as long as the roster of
1b1ic-spirited associations.
Nominations for citations, made by afliliate mem-
:rs of the NRA, served to highlight the importance
' Recreation Month for everyone. The Army, the
avy, and the Air Force held special programs for
)th officers and enlisted men and offered oppor-
nities to get acquainted with new kinds of recrea-
on in line with the month’s theme, “Live All Your
ife.” Members of state recreation societies visited
)vernors and pointed out the growing importance
' recreation. Settlement houses and private or-
mizations held news-making events. Some com-
unities preferred to limit their participation to a
eek, but most found plenty to keep interest going
roughout the Month. The story of‘recreation has
any chapters, lots of action-"and is certainly pack-
l with dramatic human interest.
Perhaps the best part of the story is that it is still
Bing written. Next year’s National Recreation
:onth will provide new opportunities to honor those
ho have rendered outstanding service. If we begin
plan now with educators, religious leaders, and
vie groups, we can help even more people learn, in
me 1958, what recreation can mean to them.I

OCTOBER 1957

  
 

NATIONAL
RECREATION
MONTH

LIVE ALL YOUR LIFE

More NRA Affiliate Members than ever before—165 in 45
states and Canada—nominated local civic leaders or or.
ganizations to receive citations for service to recreation.
Here, Mrs. Walter R. O’Hair, sole woman member of De-
troit’s Parks and Recreation Department, gets award from
Mayor Albert Coho in recognition of her contributions.

 

293

DESPLAY and DECQRATJIQN ideas

Almost every recreation leader has the job of program publicity and decoration, whether he
wants it or not! Here are some suggestions for e§ective and economical use of novel materials.

Q PARTY can fall flat without the well-
planned and well.timed publicity

and effective decorations that turn a
routine affair into a rousing success.
However, because our training has
been, for the most part, on program
planning and other phases of recrea-
tion, we often either shy away from
publicity and decorations or else neg-
lect them completely with the excuse,
“I’m no artist.”

If you take a close look at these two
fields, however, you will discover that
you really do not have to be an artist
or have specialized training to do an
effective job. When you see what can
be accomplished without too much
effort, both these tasks become a fas-
cinating part of the recreation job.

Probably the most pertinent word to
keep in mind in planning your recrea-
tion art is simplicity. All advertising, to
be successful, must catch the eye; but
if the eye is distracted by too many
things, the tendency is to pass over all
lightly. Simplicity, then, is of utmost
importance in publicity and decoration.

People do not read ads or announce-
ments for the sake of reading. Unless
we can attract their attention, arouse
their curiosity, make them laugh, or
present something new, chances are
they will pass right by our publicity.

Materials are important. We are at-
tracted, not only by color, but by tex-
ture and shape. Unusual use of ordinary
materials catches attention. There are
any number of materials that are very
effective and most economical as wcll.
Many of these are materials, which are

MRS. SARCENT is director of the Granite
City Engineer Depot Service Club,
Granite City, Illinois. The entry she sub-
mitted won first place in the Second All-
Army “Operation Service Club” contest
in which over three hundred service
clubs eornpeted recently ( see page 288

294

Mary Frances Sargent

not manufactured specifically for dec-
orative purposes, prove to be attractive
in decorative settings. They are low in
original cost, and can be used for sev-
eral occasions and in several ways.

If you really want to save money,
don’t budget and buy decorations for
only one party. If you find good ma-
terial, you’ll save money by buying
large quantities that can be stored for
future affairs. You will find, too, that
you have a well-stocked storeroom for
many future occasions.

In our own planning, we have suc-
cessfully contrived some unusual art
uses for non-art materials. We have
used plain old burlap, the kind fecd
bags are made of, stapled to sixteen-
foot-long closet poles, for hanging an
art exhibit. The walls of our club are
cut up with windows, pipes, and so on,
and we needed a flat surface on which
to display the pictures.

Burlap actually can be used over and
over. The surface will take paint or
can be silk screened. Very attractive
drapes can be made at the lowest pos-
sible cost. lnterior decorators also have
discovcrcd this material and are mak-
ing use of it in home decoration. It is
practically wearproof.

Burlap can be obtained inexpensively

from most large bag coinpanies, if you
buy in one-hundred-yard lots.* It comes
in two weights: seven-anda-half—ounce
which costs about $13.25 per hundred
yards; ten-ounce which costs $16.25 per
hundred yards. These prices are for
forty-inch-wide material; but it also
comes in a thirty-six or sixty-inch width.
We also considered the closet poles a
“find.” There are any number of uses
for these, such as for room dividers, at
a very nominal cost, which can be set
up in a few minutes. The poles are ex-
tremely easy to work with as you may
choose from several lengths and thick
nesses, and the wood has a nice finish
and can be painted in gay colors. They
can be purchased at lumber dealers.
Another carpenters’ material which
we havc borrowed is '“beaverboard.”
This is a heavy (about one-quarter-
inch) cardboard that comes in four-by-
eight-foot sheets and generally costs
around $1.60 per sheet. It is excellent
for outdoor signs or for panels for ex
hibits. The material cuts easily with a
small handsaw. If you are lucky enough
to have an electric Cutawl machine, the
material can be used for all sorts of

‘ We purchased ours from chis Brothers
Bag Company. 601 South Fourth Street, St.
Louis, Missouri.

Burlap was stapled onto sixteen-foot “closet poles” to make a background for a silk-screet
display. Bright wool yarn was interlaced between the burlap panels for a colorful effect

 

decorations and large sign letters.

Pegboard is excellent for .exhibits,
too, but we found that its comparatively
high cost called for a substitute. We
used the beaverboard; but, to add a
little glamour, covered the surface by
stapling to it “erosion net” which we
found in the garden department of a
large department store. Many home gar-
deners cover their newly seeded spring
lawns with it. It is an attractive netting
made of multi-colored coarse string.
Because of its inexpensiveness it can be
used profusely, in any number of ways.
It could be used nicely, for example, for
summer drapes in a club or in a center
Where large window are common. It
comes in fifty-four-inch width at twenty
cents per yard.

In the building department of a hard-
ware store we found “metal lath.” Build-
ers use this on walls before they plaster,
and we constructed a large display panel
segment from it. We wanted a material
that could be seen through and would
not obstruct the light. By alternating
building board with the metal lath
panels we obtained the desired results.
The metal lath is black and similar in
appearance to the perforated metal used
in some wrought iron furniture. It may
he cut to any desired shape easily with
small tin snips (wear work gloves
though), or be bent and shaped. It
comes in sheets eighteen inches wide
and eight feet long, costs about one dol-
lar per sheet. We made an effective sign
for an exhibit by stapling the black
metal lath over colored posterboard. To
put the lettering on the lath we stapled
white rope laid out in script writing.

Incidentally, if you have sufficient
storage space for leftover materials, it

is surprising what later uses you may
find for scraps. For one exhibit we
built a large frame of two-by-fours and
then tacked on odd-shaped pieces of
masonite, pegboard and beaverboard,
in an eye-pleasing arrangement. By
mixing several cans of leftover paint we
came up with an unusual color and
painted all the pieces alike. We received
several compliments on the work.

Another material we have adapted in
decorating is wallpaper. If you have
not been in a wallpaper store recently,
a trip will be profitable. The array of
designs and patterns is tremendous.
There is hardly a party theme you could
have in mind that would not have a
counterpart in wallpaper design. If you
are stuck for a theme, you may find one
by browsing through the sample books.

\Ve used wallpaper as a stage back-
drop for one party. Buying stage cur-
tains is expensive; so, in order to change
appearances for a fashion show, we
stapled strips of wallpaper together to
form the curtain, and then stapled it
over. the permanent curtain.

For another party we made a different
stage backdrop in a similar manner but
used white commercial tablecloth paper.
This comes in rolls twenty-five yards
long and forty-eight inches wide for
about $1.50 per roll. The paper has a
slick surface and takes paint and tape
very well. Since this backdrop was for
a party with an art theme, we cut out
abstract shapes of various solid colored
wallpaper and glued them to the paper
curtain. We also used strips of colored
Mystik tape to add to the design. It was
economical, effective and easy to do.

Another Useful material is jewel cloth.
Although this is strictly a decorative

Stage backdrop curtain was 111adc with white tablecloth paper. Abstract shapes were cut
from wallpaper and were glued to the curtain. Mystik tape formed the connecting lines.

 

material, it has many uses in the recre-
ation pr0gram. Jewel cloth is a glitter
material in silver and gold, plus several
Colors. It is somewhat more expensive
than the other materials mentioned,
about $1.50 per yard, but, for the really
The

silver and gold does tarnish in time and

festive occasion, most effective.

cleaning is not practical. However, if

 

Inexpensive “erosion net” was stapled to
beaverboard to hang a silk-screen exhibit.

 

my

Service Club bulletin board, using black
poster-hoard, cutouts, and white spray paint.

Side view of frce-standing display panel.
Mctal lath allowed more light, was a most
attractive background for this exhibition.

 

 

the material is stored by rolling it in a
layer of paper, it can be stored for future
use. Even when tarnished, it still main-
tains ntuch of its original sparkle when
lighted with spotlights. Jewel cloth. can
be purchased from several costume
companies.**

Posters and flyers, too, are a very
necessary part of your publicity and can
be made effective by the use of the ma-
terial you select. It is not always neces-
sary to draw a picture to make a good
poster. Sometimes a symbol will con-
vey just the idea you wish to express.

Good posters need an understanding
of the power of color and attention-
catching gimmicks. They need not and
should not be complicated. Cut letter-
ing to as few words as possible; a pos-
ter is not a detailed resume of your pro-
gram plan. It is a capsule announce-
‘1nent to build up interest in the event.

There are any number of eye-catch-
ing symbols and gadgets one can use in
place of elaborate illustrations. If you
need a humorous face, try using buttons
for eyes, paper clips for nose and mouth,
colored cotton for hair, and so on.

** Dazian’s 125 North Wabash Avenue,
Chicago, or 142 West 44th Street, New York
City, is one supplier. They will give instruc-
tions for flameproofing, should you need them.

 

These three-dimensional-type things are
effective.

Wallpaper also can be used in poster
making. Try using a plain small pattern
as your background. If you do not pos-
sess a set of Speedball penpoints, by all
means obtain a set. Speedball lettering
can be very neat and quick for the anta-
teur. Also, in using wallpaper in the
above manner, you will find it possible
to reuse old posters. Cover the original
with wallpaper instead of purchasing
new posterboard! Ask your dealer to
save his old sample books for you when
the new styles come in; he usually will.

One effective way to make posters
quickly is by the use of spray paint.
This paint comes with its own spray
nozzle and can be purchased from the
local ten-cent store or paint and hard-
ware stores. We used black posterboard
and white spray paint. We cut out a
top hat, cane, and gloves from construc-
tion paper, and spelled out our message
with some pre-cut letters on hand. First
we laid these on the board (cellophane
tape them at intervals, if they are of
lightweight paper), then we sprayed
white paint over the materials and
around the edge. When we removed the
designs they were on the posterboard
in deep black. Any combination of col-

 

Humor made posters left and center eye-catching. Funny little artist was used on all
publicity for parly. “Cutawl” letters on the poster on llte right, are simple and re-usalile.

Entrance for the “All-Army Art Exhibit” was made by stapling black metal lath over
the colored posterboard. White cord script lcttcring was then stapled onto the board.

 

296

l

ors can be used and you can make sev-
eral similar posters in a short time.

Other effective posters, without draw
ing, are made with photomontage. This
is a multiple photographic study, con-
sisting of different photographs, illustra-
tions and lettering, cut from magazines
or newspapers, mounted and arrangedI
to convey a single idea. For example,
you might cut various types of circus
ideas from several old magazines and!
arrange them on a single poster to con-
vey an over-all impression of a circus.

We also make use of “Hyers” for pub-
licity, but caution must be used in not
overdoing the flyer method. It is best
to use them for special occasions and,1
then, they must be attractive to receive
the attention you want. The mails are
stuffed with mimeographed material
these days and much of it only fair
quality. However, attractive flyers can
also be made by the use of some of the
poster techniques.

If you have the use of the Xerex proc-
ess of daplicating, more effective letter-
ing can be done by using “Artype” let-
ers. These come in sheets and have anll
adherent on the back. They must be
cut out with a sharp knife and placed1
on your original. Press the letters witli
any rounded instrument and they will
adhere to the paper. However, unless'
you duplicate your flyers by the photoj
graphic process, Artype would not b
practical because of its cost.

We have found that effective public
ity is a vital part of the program an
feel that time spent on it is worthwhile.
Get some of your ideas from the mag
zines. Glance through and notice whicl

  
   
   
   
   
    
   
   
   
  
  

ads catch your eye. Magazine advertise
nients are done by top-flight, highly
trained artists and are a source avail
able to all of us. Study what mak
them effective; note the ideas that ca
be adapted to your own publicity o
decorations. We have found the '
tisemcuts in both Esquire and Ho!
magazines a good source of ideas.
Another help has been a suhscriptio
to Western Advertising Art. This i
strictly an advertising trade magazine
but it publishes the f1nest advertisenten
put out nationally in magazines, bil
boards, containers and television. Sin
we feel that advertising is an inlcgr
part of our job, it is a wise idea to tr
to learn from the experts in the field.

at
CD
"I

a:
. CL.

Rscasniml

  
   
      
 

Far 2 or 200. Requires minimum space ond simple inex-
pensive equrpment. We design and manufacture the . ESPECIALLY DESIGNED

best and least expensive
weapons and accessories . FOR HEAVY DUTY USE

   

     

 

_ / / for beginners and ex-  
If“! I 4 "_ _ _ o _ 5:1”; al‘l’tentin:ed:ti3il: .  Official
._ I... F 'i '5' i’ I r v I :Lvif'2;::.:::i:::a: 0 . 21%;?“
I'- Write Dept. R for . BA“ BOUNCE 
AMERICA'S OLDEST AND lARGEST IMPORTERS AND MANUFACTURERS OF FREE CATALOG. .
so EAST 10th smear, N.Y.3,N.Y.- GRamercy 3-6930 0 0 0 0 0 .

 

RONALD Books 2 assist

Nationally recognized and used by
the ARMED FORCES. COLLEGES,
MUNICIPAlITIES. RECREATION CEN-
TERS, SCHOOLS. CLUBS. PARstetc.

Principles 0‘ MODEL #104 - MODEL #105

as above with : I sturdy snop in type

R E  E  I 0 N . “WWW less. : folding legs.

 
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
 
   
 
  
  
     
    

Top teachable guide to . . .

' No Maintenance or Replocement Problems.

By JOHN L.  Columbia University ' Sturdy Lifetime Constructlan.

_ - SECURELY INSTALLED HEAVY GAUGE
A fundamental treatment of recreation for courses rc- ALUMINUM CENTER NET

 

latcd to the subject. This up-to-(late textbook makes

clear the basic concepts underlying the organization All Minn”.le “Bu (0'
of leisure activity. It providcs a full investigation of P'O'BOX142’TEANECK'N'J'
the cultural significancc of the recrcation profession, '

. and a systematic discussion of the responsibilities and
functions involvcd. Givcs an account of the meaning
and objectives of rccreation and sketchcs of the various
cultural, economic, and social changes related to leisure
activity in the United States — both past and present
— and examines the status of rccreation provided by
municipal, state, federal, and school authorities. $3.75

NEW! Revised Printing of this non-technical intro-
 duction to the theory of internal combustion engines

details the design for each working part. Stresses

 two-cycle type used most often in model airplanes.
 Specifications for commercially built model engines.
130 ills. By DONALD K. FOOTE. $3.50

     
  
   
  
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
    
 

WALL MOUNTED RACK

Hold More Wraps in less Space.
Standard in checkrooms. Also widely
used as self-service racks in coffee
shops, restaurants, meeting rooms—-
wherever people gather. Mount on
any available wall space, even over
floor obstructions, accommodate 4
or 5 persons per running foot. Pro-
vides each with a coat hanger and
individual hat space. Keeps wraps
aired, dry, “in-press.” Come with
or without numbers and checks.
Strongly built of reinforced heavy
gauge steel. Finished in baked
enamel. 3'2", 4'2”, 5'2” lengths. Mount
independently or interlock to make

continuous racks of

any length.

A practical guide to kite making and flying. Shows: mate-
rials to use; how to make various kinds of kites including

 fancy and novelty types; etc. A Barnes SPORTS LI-

BRARY Book. 70 ills. By H. WALLER FOWLER. Jr.
$1.95

For new or veteran hobbyists. This helpful
book covers model Hying’s basic principles

AGPOdyllallliCS and clearly shows how to work out design
for  problems. Invaluable coverage of the atmos-

phere; the forces of gravity, lift, drag, and

 thrust; the different types of stability and bal-

ance; flight adjustments; etc. Also by DON-
ALD K. FOOTE. 124 ills. $3.50

 
 
  
   

Write for
Bulletin Cit-5 l 5

VOGEI- PETERSON CO.

Order your books from:

THE RQNALD PRESS COMPANY 15 E. 26th St., New York 1Q

I l2? West 37th Street 0 Chicago 9, Illinois

OCTOBER 1957 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 297

 

How To Do ITO” b 

MATERIAL and f U/PMf/VT

 

Broken china~Househo\d cement»-

 
  
  
 
  
  

Crack JEuler ~Wafer co\or pain? -

WI're cuH'ers —- Ghss boTH es «-
Jars» Boxes -- PM Wood .

   
    
  

. ' 25mm?on c/v/na
‘ diff/7 wire cuffe/a

METHOD

LBreak chino. plafespaucers, 946an small pieces.
M9775 - This con besf’be done w/fn wire cake/cs.

2.3man a+ boH‘om edge of objecPKbo/n’e} sfick china pieces'i’o object
Mms- Use nouseno/d cemeni Use sire/obi edge pieces fo gef eren eofoe .

3.Con1'inue s’rickinq china pieces ‘Yo objecf
uni’il enh're surface is covered.
NOTE—lea we no /arge cracks or

open no/es. Pieces of 6/7/7761  . «
show/d be ff/‘féo’ dose/y /ége7%en #0

6136'

4. A1c‘l'er cemeni’ is drug (aboufgo‘noar) 
fill all Cracks (0% Crack filler. Q25 ‘2‘

NOTE Mix on/y 5/3062”canoe/n?L 07" cracé 76//€/‘ afa 7'7'Ine.
Mix Cm ck ffl/er 7’0 puffy/Me cons/Bfencg. 5,0 read mm
sift”)? and woe of; 50/79/05 (xx/9% damp c/ofn or paper
76we/ unfi/ a// 797/67“ x35 removed exoeof in fne crooks.

NOTE —- Wafer co/or poi/7f can be m/Lreo’ cuff/y crock 76'//€/‘ '/o 9e7‘ any
desxk-eo/ co/or. .  . '

; ? /5n'oé/no CAI/7Q
pieces #29 baffom
edge of bo#/e.

5. S’ropper 'For bo’rHe can be made wi‘Hw piece of dowel.

 

Wooden boxes, ja r5, foo/e fops and mosl‘any ari'c/e con be ('0 yereo’ wif/y mesa/2:.

\'

29f; RECREATION

ALL-AMERICAN HEAVY-DUTY

If you are planning the construction of an I
Ice Skating Facility in the near future consult l
a firm that has designed and engineered 34

ice skating rinks and arenas in the past year |

INDOOR - OUTDOOR
PERMANENT o PORTABLE

   
      
     

GRILLS

Features Not Found
In Any Other Grill

 

  

     

I958 season, and have iust completed the design

, . of heavy stove iron with steel
of 3 outdoor rInks for the City of Buffalo.

pipe support, for lifetime serv-

Take advantage of our invaluable knowledge and Built just like a small, com_
experience of ice rink feasibility, planning and plate cooking range. Positive
conSIrUCllom Stallionfary 5°33?” 6-waydraft control gives faster,

stye or o e as . . . .
COSTS OPERATION permanent Illustrated, eas1er kmdhng, saves fuel, In.
REVENUE PROMOTION installation Commete sures tenderer, ]u1c1er steaks,
FINANCE EQUIPMENT   chops, barbecues. Cooks, bakes,
ENGINEERING SITE PLANNING w h 1 0 2 warms—burns charcoal, wood

eigt 8 lbs. .  Weight 05Ibs. .

. . . or coal. Crlll revolves to per-
We now are deSIgnIng l7 rlnks and arenas for the PATENT PENDIN mit cooking to windward. Cast

ice. Shipped fully assembled.

Peter Carver Associates

70 EAST 45th STREET
NEW YORK 17, NEW YORK

Phone: LExington 2-1520

' it Write for Literature on All-American Picnic Grills, Heavy-
Daty Picnic Tables, Park Bcncltes and Chain Link Tennis Nets

F-f'l-I

AMERICAN

PLAYGROUND DEVICE C0., ANDERSON, IND.

WORLD'S LARGEST manuracrunrns or rm: PARK, PICNIC,
PLAYGROUND. SWIMMING POOL AND DRESSING ROOM EQUIPMENT

OUR REFERENCES AND EXPERIENCE ARE YOUR GUARANTEE

 

t anttntlmnn

\ --- maoazlulr- —- 

@m 1.

Your Board

Your City
Officials

Your Key
. Personnel

Your Informed
. Lay Supporters

FOR PARK AND RECREATION
SUPERINTENDENTS . . . tech-
niques described by practical
men in the field.

BALANCED EDITORIAL FOR-
MULA . . . the voice of the pro-
lessional on land acquisition,
design, construction, recrea-
tional usage, administration and
maintenance . . a complete
coverage.

A QUALITY PRODUCT . . . line
paper, printing, photos, maps
and editorial approach.

SERVING THE PARK AND RECREATION FIELDS SINCE 1917.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

One year ..   .. .. .S 5.00
Two years  . ..  9.00
Three years . . . 13.00

Groups of tour or more—one
year 54.00 each per year.

OCTOBER 195?

PARKS 6. RECREATION . . .
only national magazine designed
for both park and recreation
administrators.

EACH MONTH . . . the most
“referred to" publication in its
field . . . a must for your
reference library.

ALL USABLE INFORMATION
. no fiction, no “fairy tales"
avidly read from cover to cover
. . send for your free sample
and judge for yourself.

Department RN
Ogiebay Park
Wheeling, West Virginia

publisher

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

ATHLETIC-BALLS

  

So sensationally better are
they on every count—design,

construction, quality.
durability and play-ability—
that Rawlings HERCULITE

 

Rubber-Covered Athletic Balls

have established a new high
standard. They're in a class
by themselves—they're . ..

" 7719 Fines! In 7770 Field! "

e VOLLEY BALLS o BASKETBALLS
e SOCCER BALLS o FOOTBALLS

RAWLINGS SPORTING GOODS (O. 0 St. louis 0 los Angeles 0 Dallas 0 Chicago

299

Public .
Relations
in
Recreation

A publicity and public relations
specialist addresses some practical
advice to recreation workers.

Richard M. Baker

MANY OF YOU, as recreation executives, I know, feel that
your work is not being suiiiciently recognized, that
there is not enough status in your job, that other people
don’t consider recreation a profession and that, pretty gen-
erally, you are an underpaid, unappreciated and overworked
group. I think the problem is of your own making.

Let’s suppose a successful industrialist were faced with
some of the same diiliculties and shortcomings that plague
recreation—lack of trained workers, an old plan, outworn
equipment, lack of funds—what would hc do? He’d put on
the biggest selling campaign his community had ever seen.
He’d explain his problems, his nceds and, most important,
what he had to offer (his product—recreation) . Because he
believed so wholeheartedly in his product, he’d tell everyone
about it—parents, childrcn, city oilicials, school boards, his
entire community. llc’d know that he can get what he wants
by selling his product thoroughly and continuously.

People will support recreation activities and larger recrea-
tion budgets provided they know what the problems are and
are reassured that the money will be spent wisely.

Recreation workers are likc pcople in many othcr busi-
nesses and professions. We all have a tendency to put the
blame on “conditions,” a lack of understanding either by
our superiors or by the people who control the pursestrings.
But it may well be that the fault rests not with others, but
with you. You can do something about this. Tlic merc
wringing of hands is not enough, nor is it cnough to say.
“We can’t get through to our aldcrmen or to our board—lhcy
just won’t listen.” Thcy will listen if you have something to
say, if you organize and present a case!

Condensed from a talk delivered at an annual recreation con-
ference of the Wisconsin Recreation Association and pub-
lished in the association’s monthly bulletin. MR. BAKER is
vice-president of an advertising company, The Brady Com-
pany, Appleton, Wisconsin.

300

Everyone is seeking more recognition. Everyone is seek-
ing more money, as an outgrowth of that recognition. For-
tunately, most everyone realizes you have to deserve more
money before you get it—either for yourself or for your
program.

Getting more money—for your program, for yourself,
for your staff—is the result of, and not the motivation for,
doing a good job. Employers don’t offer pay raises as an
inducement to work harder and better; they offer raises as
a reward. Like the major league baseball player who re-
ceives a substantial pay boost after a good season, the rec-
reation director and the people he supervises will get salary
increases only after they demonstrate performance.

Money isn’t the whole story, of course. There has to be,
above all, a quality of dedication in recreation people—a
desire to serve mankind, to bring about richer enjoyment
of life for other people.

Recreation leaders have a great deal in common with the
teacher, the .civil servant, the foreign service ofiicer and, in
the old days, the country doctor. The satisfaction of doing
worthwhile work, of helping others comes before money.
if this isn’t the case, you probably shouldn’t be in recreation.
There isn’t enough tangible reward, either in money or in
public acclaim, to justify continuing in a job you don’t enjoy
and respect.

If you do enjoy and respect your work, you’re well on
your way to an intelligent, accurate appraisal of where rec- I
reation activities fit into the future scheme of your city or l
community. This leads us to a public relations program, ’
organized, detailed, followed through, designed to take your |
story to the pe0ple who either are or should be intcrested—
your townspeople.

Let’s take a quick look at what public relations is. Thcre
are many definitions, but the one widely acccpted today was I

first givcn in an article last year in Fortune magazine. “Pub- I
lie relations,” according to Fortune, “is good performance, 1
publicly appreciated bccause it is adequately communi-I
catcd.” A very basic, a very undcrstandablc definition.

“Good will” is another term which can be intCrchangcd I
with effective public rclations, a backlog of fricndship.|
which is based on people knowing and therefore approving I
what you’re doing.

Public relations activity is all around us. It is the light I
for ideas, the forces of persuasion which all groups excrtq
upon one another. thther you like it or not, you’re in a +
public relations struggle too—a struggle to win public *
undcrstanding and support.

If you accept this as being true, as an incvitablc part of I
our high-speed twenticth century liic, thcn you’re probably
interested in how well you’re doing in your relations with
thc puhiic. How can you find out?

To help you, lct’s list some questions, in no particular!
order of importance, that might give you a bettcr line 011
your own public relations performancc:

1. How often do you sce any of the parcnts of thc child-
ren who are in your program? At your office, on the strect.
at community meetings? How often do you simply talk to
some of these people ust to get to know them?

2. How oftcn do you give a talk to one of your local

RECREATION ~

 
   
   
  
   

ervice clubs, PTA groups, women’s clubs, or any other or-
anization that regularly needs speakers or would logically
e interested in what’s going on in the recreation depart-
ent?

3. Do you ever sit down with a member of your school
oard or city council or recreation commission when you
on’t have an axe to grind, merely to report on what you’re
doing?

4. Do you ever go to any of these people—singly or in a
roup—to ask their advice on a project?

5. Do you ever talk to the man on the street—a relative,
a friend, a casual acquaintance, even a stranger—to find out
what he knows about your recreation program? I did this
with an old friend the other night, a doctor who’s known me
well for ten years. I asked him to tell me, if he would, what
he knew about my work. It was embarrassing for both of
us . . . he knew next to nothing . . . but I learned something.
As it turned out, he became genuinely interested in what I
am doing. So might your friends, but first find out what
they know. You may be in for a shock.

6. What’s your relationship with other agencies in the
community who are doing similar kinds of work—YMCA,
Girl Scouts, Boy Scouts, the church groups? Are you try-
ing to improve some hard feelings you inherited or hard
feelings you helped develop; or are you drifting—still com-
peting with these organizations?

7. How’s your office public relations? How are incom-
ing phone calls handled? With courtesy, helpfulness or
grudgingly and abruptly? How are visitors to your office
greeted and treated? Is the office a pleasant place to visit,
_both in decoration and in the manner of the pe0ple who
work there? For many people, the only contact with your
department is over the phone or during a quick drop-in visit.
Will their impressions be favorable?

8. Are you taking part in any community activities other
than those directly related to your job? Are you active in
your church’s spiritual and social program? Do you serve
I on civic fund-raising committees, service club program com-
lmittees? This list is long. But the important thing to re-
' member is that the success of your program often depends

upon volunteers. You can repay this debt—not to the same

persons, but to others—by being a volunteer on a reasonable
number of civic activities. To rephrase this question: How
deeply are you involved in the life of your community?

9. How expendable are you and your program? If
catastrophe should strike your city administration or your
school board—~—if, for example, a large source of revenue
were cut off—would your department be the first one to feel
the axe? Are you considered a necessity or a luxury?

10. What is your relationship with the ministers, priests,
rabbis in your community? Do they know intimately the
work of the recreation department? Do you 1nv1te them to
visit one of your programs? Do you extend yourself to com-
municate with them? Obviously, the clergy is a powerful
and articulate voice in your city. For your benefit, and for
theirs, they should know what you’re doing.

11. Do the police in your city know anything about your
program? Do they understand how your work is having
beneficial results on your community’s juvenile delinquency

 

OCTOBER 1957

problem? Have they visited any of your activities? Have
you extended yourself to keep them informed? They’re
good allies, and can serve as recruiters for you if you aren’t
getting enough participation in your programs.

12. How often do you check with the parents of your
children to test their youngsters’ reaction to the recreation
program? This is more than just seeing the parents. This
means asking pointed questions about what their sons and
daughters say, and about the parents’ impressions of your
program’s effectiveness (or lack of it).

13. Do you test the effectiveness of your adults’ pro-
gram? Do you periodically question some of your adults?
Are you sensitive to the kind of impact your program is
making on both young and old?

14. How often do you hold staff meetings? What kind
of meetings are they? Do you find out about the problems
of your staff or is the meeting an excuse for you to deliver a
lecture on all you know about recreation? Is there partici-
pation? Does your staff honestly have a chance to talk and
to be listened to courteously? Look back at your last meet-
ing. Were you the only one who talked?

15. Do you take part in the various public ceremonies
in your community—the opening of a new recreation site,
new public building, the starting off of a fund drive, and so
on? Are you in the limelight during these events or do you
take the opportunity to push the mayor, school board presi-
dent, any other logical official to the front? Are you an ef-
fective behind-the-scenes worker who is satisfied with this
role or must you take the bows?

16. What’s your relationship with the local press? Do
you know anything about its needs, Special problems, dead-
lines? Have you talked with your editors to learn what they
might want from you, rather than emphasize what you want
printed? Do you observe the basic rules for good news
stories?

17. Do you regularly hold open house—for children,
adults, the general community, for special groups like serv-
ice clubs, women’s clubs?

18. Do you publish an annual report, regardless of the
elaborateness of the presentation? One of the most effective
annual reports I’ve seen was mimeographed, but the story
was so compelling it overcame any typographical short-
comings.

19. Do you acknowledge help promptly? thn volun-
tieers pitch in on one of your programs, do they receive a
thank-you note or a phone call?

20. Is your program balanced? Because you like out-
door sports, is there an over-emphasis on these, and a re-
sulting under-emphasis on indoor activities? What about
the ratio between youth and adult activities? Does your
program take into account the special needs of your com-
munity?

This last is the more important question of all. And it’s
the question, or questions, you ask yourself about your de-
partment and its place in your community—other than the
ones we’ve just mentioned. If the foregoing “twenty ques-
tions” have any value to you, the value might lie in stimulat-
ing you to look into and appraise your own performance.

The problem of what people think of you is squarely up

301

A
D
M
|
N
|
S
T
R
A
T
|
0
N

 

to you. You control it. Because of your specialized training
in recreation, it’s unlikely that you’ll find any specific direc-
tion from your superiors. You have to be the self-starter,
the planner, the doer.

The power of one person is remarkable. It’s always sur-
prising to find out what you can do if you’re willing to make
the investment in energy to do it. You never know what you
can do until you try! I

. . . . . . CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING . . . . . .

RATES: Words in regular type $.15 each

COPY: Type—or clearly print—your
message and the address to which you
Wlsh replies sent. Underline any words

DEADLINES: Copy must be received by
the fifth of the month preceding date of
the lssue‘ in whlch ad ls desired.

Words in boldface type $.25 each
Minimum ad accepted  $3.00

you want to appear in boldface type.

Send capy with remittance to: RECREATION Classified Advertising, 8 West Eighth Street, New York 11, New York.

 

HELP WANTED

Occupatlonal and Recreatlonat Therapists
for 4500-bed modern progressive mental
Occupational Therapists must
be registered or eligible for registry
American Occupational Therapists As-
Recreational Therapists must
recognized college with
major Recreation or Recreation Therapy
with supervlsed field work. Start at $376:
Three
weeks paid vacation; sick leave: eleven
paid holidays. Fine recreational area. 66
miles east of Los Angeles. Write Superln-
tendent, Patton State Hospital. Patton.

hospital.

sociation .
be graduate

annual increases. Civil Service.

California.

Recreation Vacancies in Sixth U.S. Army
Area (eight Western States). Assistant
Service Club Directors: salary $4080.
single, female. minimum age 24 years.
College degree. two years' paid experi-
ence. Plan and direct recreation activi-
ties. share administrative responsibilities.
Apply to Speclal Services Odicer. Head-
quarters Sixth U.S. Army, Presidio of
San Francisco. California.

Asslstant Superintendent of Parks toibe
hired in 1958. with the possibility, if quali-
fied, of being advanced to the position of
Superintendent of Parks upon the retire-
ment of the present Superintendent
(about December 31. 1958). College gradu-
ate preferred with administratlve abllity.
Five years experience in large publlc park
system including administratlve or super-
visory work. For further inforrnatlon
write M. G. Simonds. Superintendent of
Parks. City Hall, Green Bay. Wisconsin.

POSITIONS WANTED

Experienced Teacher of Arts and Crafts
deslres permanent position. Mature. pa-
tient. creative. with therapy background.
Will consider overseas. Mrs. Ida G. Fisch.
1902 East 18th Street, Brooklyn 29. New
York.

SERVICES AVAILABLE

Piute Pete of Village Barn and TV fame.
School Dance—Workshops—Organization
Barn Dances. Hilarious Audience Partici- 1
pation Games. Novelty Dances and
Square Dances. Piute Pete. 55 West 1
Eighth Street. New York 11, New York. I

The publisher assumes no responsibility {or services or items advertised here.

HELP WANTED ' ' POSITIONS WANTED ' ' SERVICES AVAILABLE ' ' WORKSHOPS A CONFERENCES ' ' EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES ' ' ITEMS FOR EXCHANGE

CAMP SUPERINTENDENT

Full-time position, including supervision of property maintenance. as well as
supervising and coordinating camp building and development program. Also re-
sponsible for supervising winter week-end camping program.

Supervisory and administrative experience ucccssary. Prefer man expcricnced
working with children. Knowledge of any of the following is desirable: building
construction, forestry, agriculture and camping.

Housing for family provided.

Camp located near Holly, Michigan approximately 40 miles from Detroit.
Apply Camp Tamarack, 9999 liroadstrect, Detroit 4, Michigan
Complete resume in first letter, expcctcd salary and when available.

a

EvoumPUBLISH
gvoun BOOK

. Free brochure tells how we published 2000 hooks for
. authors. Free editorial appraisal. Write Dept. It to

0 EXPOSITION PRESS/ 386 4th Ave, N.Y. 16

 

 

BASKETBALL
STEEL CHAIN

3 Years Guaranteel
outdoors or Indoors

 

Also {maturing Jaylro'e custom built

J NYLON BASKETBALL NETS 8. BALL CARRIERS
J ALUMINUM MULTl-PURPOSE STANDARDS
J TETHERBALL POLES 8. PADDLE SETS

J ALUMINUM SHUFFLEBOARD SETS

0 Send for Free Catalog 0

JAYFRO ATHLETIC SUPPLY CO.

 l'O

Dept. R,r Box 1065. NEW LONDON. CONN.

 

302

When

 

ICE WHEN YOU WANT IT

with

BELTEMP

artificial Ice skoting rinks by

BELTZ ENGINEERING LABORATORIES
TTOZT Whittier Avenue
Detroit 24, Michigan. VEnice 9-1811

RECORDED TAPE

ONE STOP SERVICE

We carry all lines of slereophanic
and manaural tapes.

EDUCATIONAL ' BACKGROUND MUSIC

Special discounts to
recreation officers

Write on letterhead Ior tree mall-order catalog.

MAL'S RECORDING SERVICE

Dept. RE. Box 31. Rockaway Park 94. N. T.
Phone GRanlIe 4-4607

 

writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

RECREATION THERAPISTS

for California State Hospitals.

New positions in several locations are open to
college graduates with maior in Recreation or
Recreation Therapy and supervised tleld work.
Monthly salary starts at $376; opportunities
Excellent employee

for advancement to $644.
beneNts. Applications accepted until November
T4 for civil service examination to be held in

all states. Writo Medical Recruitment Unit.
State Personnel Board. SOT Capitol Avenue,
Sacramento, California.

 

BOOK MAN USCRIPTS I

CONSIDERED
by cooperative publisher who elTers authors early
publication, higher royalty, oational dialributioo. and
beaulltully designed books. All auhjecla welcomed.
Wrile. or send your maouacrlpl directly.

GREENWICH BOOK PUBLISHERS
Attn. Mr. Hitchcock 489 Fifth Avenue
New York IT, N. Y.

   

 

NEW AND IMPROVED

RYAN’S H. a: 1a.:

DRY LINE MARKERS

5 DIFFERENT MODELS
From 20# lo 100# Capacity

 
 
  

Force Feed — Instant
 GENERAL MUSIC TAPES Show" _ so u”. w“
TAPE PLAYBACK EQUIPMENT Padilla

\
Shaker In Hopper for

Constant Flow.

Adiustable Control on
Handle.

SAVES TIME AND
MATERIAL

Send to Dept. R for booklet on {our other models
H. 8. R. MFG. CO.. LOS ANGELES 34, CALIF. '

 

RECREATION

for the

Administrator

OTES

Public Recreation Boards

 

A report prepared from data gathered from 321 cities by
Community Chests and Councils-of America, Inc., Boards
and Board Members of Health and Welfare Agencies, con-
tains interesting information with reference to 2,136 public
and private agency boards with a total membership of 47,-
235. It reveals that the average membership of public
agency boards is eight as compared with twenty-three mem-
bers of the average voluntary agency. Public agency boards
also meet more frequently, have a better average attendance
record and tend to have longer terms of ofEce.

An analysis of forty-one public recreation boards reveals
that eighty-seven per cent approve policies and seventy-nine
per cent prepare budgets; ninety per cent delegate interpre-
tation of program to the director. Members are appointed
by the mayor in sixty-one per cent of the agencies, by the
local governing body in twenty-nine per cent and by the city
manager in seventeen per cent. A high percentage of boards
meet more than ten times a year, have overlapping terms
and report more than seventy per cent attendance at board

meetings; seventy-six per cent of the board members are _

under forty-five years of age.

High School Class

Gene Coulson, superintendent of parks and recreation in
Renton, Washington, recently completed ten years as in-
structor in a high school class in recreation leadership.
Last year he had seventeen senior students and thirty-five
are enrolled for the coming year. The class meets every
day for two semesters and students receive one credit for
the first semester and two credits for the second. Each must
give 125 hours’ service outside the classroom in actual face
to face leadership in recreation. The course has proved a
wonderful asset to the local recreation department and also
has resulted in interesting students in recreation as a career.

Evaluation

At the suggestion of a district representative of the Na-
tional Recreation Association, a local recreation commis-
sion recently made an evaluation of its community, using
the “Schedule for the Appraisal of Community Recrea-

tion.”

Many values resulting from this were reported.
Members” reactions were interesting. They discovered things
in their communities that they did not know and brought
difficulties in their programs into focus. The commission
had been at fault in some matters. A larger budget and
more leadership personnel were needed. “We should do

more planning with the school system and with our neigh-

OCTOBER 1957

boring city,” they stated. These admissions indicated that
the evaluation had awakened members to responsibilities
they had not recognized previously. .

F or example: some members had not read the charter
provisions relating to the work of the commission and did
not know their powers and duties; meetings were rarely
held; the city council was making decisions on matters with-
out consulting the commission; the budget had been made
up by the recreation director who presented it to the city
council without approval or support by the commission.

The commission, as a result, decided to take a number of
steps, including the following: secure the use of available
school facilities, which use would depend upon securing
more leadership personnel; arrange a meeting with the
housing authority and, if possible, secure leadership for
its recreation center; include in its annual budget request
a full-time assistant for activities and part time assistants;
hold regular commission meetings; inform the city council
that any matter concerning recreation should be referred
to the commission for a recommendation or report before
city council action; arrange meetings with the city council,
the school board and the park and recreation commission of
the neighboring city.

Citizens9 Organizations

An organization entitled Friends of Public Parks and
Recreation has been established and incorporated in Seattle,
Washington. Its membership consists of individuals inter-
ested in parks and recreation in the city, in King County
and in the state. Among its purposes are to promote, en-
courage and maintain interest in the preservation, acquisi-

tion, development, maintenance and use of natural resources

and park and recreation areas. Other purposes include the
soliciting of gifts, the expending or loaning of funds for
property acquisition, development and maintenance, grant-
ing scholarships and assisting organizations with a similar
purpose.

Fairmount Park system in Philadelphia also benefits from
the services of two organizations of citizens. The Friends of
the Wissahickon, organized more than forty years ago, and
the recently formed Friends of the Pennypack are dedicated

to the preservation of the natural beauty and wildness of
these areas within the system.

Unique Pool Feature

An indoor swimming pool under construction for the
Memphis Athletic Club, in Memphis, Tennessee, contains a
unique feature. These are overflow troughs both at deck
level and eighteen inches lower. The double overflow
trough will enable the pool to be filled to the lower level
during periods when it is used by children. When filled to
the higher trough the pool is suitable for official swimming
meets.

Another feature is that the pool enclosure has an arched
beamed ceiling and three sides of glass that can be removed
for conversion into an outdoor pool in summer months. The
pool is one unit of a comprehensive building which is to
contain a gymnasium, handball courts, lounge, dining room,
recreation room and various service facilities. I

303

|

N
|

S
T
R
A
T
|
O
N

 

  

“Operation Outdoors”

A plan to double camping and picnic facilities in the
national forests within the next five years in order to meet
a steadily expanding demand for such facilities has re-
cently been announced by the United States Department of
Agriculture. A summary of the plan has been issued in
a publication, Operation Outdoors—Part I—National F or-
est Recreation.* The second part of the plan will deal with
the improvement and management of wildlife habitat in co-

Operation with state game departments.
The national forests, with 45,713,000 visits in 1955, are

expected to hit a 66,000,000 mark by 1962. Most of the

camp and picnic areas and facilities for swimming and
winter sports in the national forests were constructed during
the 1930’s with emergency funds; consequently they are
not only inadequate to meet the mounting volume of visi-
tors, but have deteriorated due to limited apprOpriations for
maintenance.

In 1955, forest camp and picnic areas with a safe capacity
of some 17,600,000 man-days use, actually received 25,500,-
000 man-days use—an overload of 39 per cent. The present
overcrowding of these areas constitutes hazards and deprives
many pe0ple of satisfactory use of the forests.

The plan has as its objectives the rehabilitation of existing
facilities and the development and installation of new areas
to alleviate present overuse and to accommodate future use
as it deve10ps. Eleven basic policies have been ad0pted as
guides in carrying out the five-year program which involves
a total capital investment of $54,400,000. Of this amount,
$15,200,000 are allocated to rehabilitation and $39,200,000
for new construction. This means that the total amount to
be spent during the years 1958-62 for administration, opera-
tion and deve10pment of recreation areas in the national
forests would be $85,000,000.

In estimating the cost of the pr0gram several unit costs
have been deve10ped. The average cost of deve10ping a new
camp and picnic family unit, which consists of a table, fire
grate and parking spur, is estimated to be $860 per unit. An
average of $370 per family unit is needed to rehabilitate
existing facilities and to provide modernized water and sani-
tary facilities. The annual maintenance cost per unit is $33
for present facilities and decreases to $23 per family unit
with the build-up in the new areas which will rcquire less
maintenance. This amount is equivalent to about three per
cent on the capital investment and includes about two-thirds

 

MR. BUTLER is director of the NRA Research Department.

304

 

George D. But _

labor cost and one third for supplies and materials. Th
work of sanitation and clean-up is estimated to cost annuall
about $30 per family unit.

The report describing the program contains a number 0
tables giving detailed information as to eXpenditures, visit
and uses of forest recreation facilities.

Selected Planning Trends

The Pennsylvania Economy League, Inc., of Pittsburgh,
issued a report in 1956 entitled, Public Capital Improvemen
Planning and Finance by Major Governments in the Princi-
pal Metropolitan Areas. One section deals with parks an
recreation and lists the 1955 capital outlays for forty-on
metropolitan cities and proposed capital outlays for desig
nated program periods in the years ahead. The total 195
outlay of the forty-one cities was $58,700,000. It comment
on a number of significant features made possible by thi
expenditure.

Another section deals with libraries, museums and ar
centers. It indicates proposed capital outlays for the year
ahead. It points out that financing for facilities such r
museums, music halls and other cultural facilities tends, botl
traditionally and currently, toward a mixture of public an m
private subscription sources for capital financing. “The ac
cent is on private sources for all or a major share of capita
funds. Public agencies are generally found donating Ian
and occasionally mceting Operating deficits.”

A third section, covering auditoriums, stadiums and con
vention centers, describes recent, current or pr0posed pro
jects in a number of metropolitan cities.

Among the selectcd capital planning trends listed are: th
development of civic centers; increascd attention to Ian
acquisition planning; coordination of capital iniprovenle
programs between government agencies in a metropolita
area; neighborhood improvcment and regional approaches

International Leisure Study

A mceting of the Education Conlmittec of thc Internati01 11
al Union of Local Authorities rccently held in Paris was .l'
tended by representativcs from five countrics. There it wa'
decided to makc a number of case studies of adult education
and leisure-time activities, including sport, in a few card
fully sclccted local authorities in the different countrics re]?
resentcd on the committee. I 1

* Available from Superintendent of Documents. U. S. Covernmtlil
Printing Office, Washington 25, D. C., Pp. 14. 3.20. \

Racnmrro

AMERICA’S FINEST ATHLETIC BALLS

FOR EVERY AGE GROUP,
PRICE OR SKILL—

‘mi ,
air GOES WITH THE GAME
®

NEW YORK 11

CHICAGO 11

LOS ANGELES ll

 

ARE You IDDKIIIG FOR A NEW FIELD GAME"?

A Game Requiring a Minimum of Equipment?
A Game that is Fun? Easy to Learn?

 

1 TRY

SPEED -A-WAY "

 

Now played in U.S., Canada, Hawaii and England

SPEED-A-WAY FILM

Rentol—$2.50 (b&w) ond $3.75 (color) '
Order Now '

MARJORIE S. LARSEN

1754 Middletield

Program in the Doldrums?

Everybody loves to play
wholesome, action-packed

A sure way of
maintaining
enthusiastic
attendance.

(9 sizes up to 31/2 x 7 ft.)

SUPERIOR

Write for
literature
today.

POOL TABLES

.57.,
INDUSTRIES
CORPORATION

565 Barry Street 0 New York 59. N. Y.

OCTOBER 1957

 

--=1/

I
J

 

I SPEED-A-WAY GUIDE BOOK

Containing rules and charts—$1.00

Stockton 4, California

 

 
   
   
     
     
     
   
     
 
   
   
   
 
     
   
 

LOST
CONTACT?

  

Hard to find items for recreation in
Pools, Parks, Golf Courses, and at
Schools and Institutions

are all listed in the:

1957 BUYER’S GUIDE

III

the October issue of

  

PARK MAINTENANCE

Over 600 suppliers are shown,

with a product description.

Single copies only $.50
One Year $3.00

Three Years $7.50

PARK NIAIVTENANCE
P. 0. Box 409-R

Appleton, Wisconsin

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

Colonial I
AWW Kits 

 

Complete “assemble-it-yourself” kits
for making full size reproductions
of Colonial *Antique Masterpieces!

Everything included . . . precise pre-cut wood
sections with pre-marked nail holes, knife
for antiquing, rub-an stain. nails, sandpaper,
steel wool, gauze wipe. and simple direc-
tions. 6 kits from $2.95 to $8.95.

 Fall color Bro-

chure a! all six X-acto
Colonials.

X-ACTO, INC.

48-99 Von Dam Street
long Islond City 'I, N. Y.

  
  
 
 
  

 

with SAFETY

OOOOOOGOOGOOOOO

HOBBY HORSE SWING
Excitement—adventure—fun and exercise.
They're all combined in this heavy duty
Burke-Built Hobby Horse Swing . . . with
complete Safety. Three paint suspension
keeps seat level at all times. No pushing
necessary-even a tat can create his own
momentum.

KIDDIE GUDER

A companion piece to the Hobby Horse
Swing. Twa con t‘md adventure together
in Burke's Heavy Duty Kiddie Glider and
they can't hang their heads, pinch their
legs, or swing too high.

Burke builds a complete line of swings,
slides, and playground equipment for
schools, hospitals, institutions, cities and
recreation areas, including several new
and completely tested revalutianory units
for playgrounds everywhere.

For complete information write Dept. A

451%:wa

FOND DU lAC, WISCONSIN
NEW BRUNSWICK, NEW JERSEY

 

305

A
D
M
|
N
|
S
T
R
A
T
I
O
N

 

Books & Pamphlets
Received

ADOLESCENT GIRLS (Survey). Girl
Scouts of the USA, 155 East 44th

Street, New York 17. Pp. 251. Paper
$2.75.

AMERICA LEARNS TO DANCE, Joseph E.
Marks, III. Exposition Press, 386
Fourth Avenue, New York 16. Pp.
133. $4.00.

BOWLING FOR ALL (Third Edition), Joe

FalcarO and Murray Goodman. Ron—
aId Press, 15 East 26th Street, New

York 10. Pp. 104. $2.95.

CHRISTMAS SONGS AND THEIR STORIES,
Herbert H. Wernecke. Westminster
Press, Witherspoon Building, Phila-
delphia 7._ Pp. 128. $2.50.

CLINICAL APPLICATION OF RECREATION
THERAPY, John Eisele Davis. Charles
C. Thomas, 301 East Lawrence Ave-
.nue, Springfield, Illinois. Pp. 118.
$3.75.

COMPLETE BOOK OF CHILDREN’S PLAY,
THE, Ruth E. Hartley and Robert M.
Goldenson. Thomas Y. Crowell, 432
Fourth Avenue, New York 16. Pp.
461. $5.00.

CRAZIEST HALLOWEEN, TIIE, Ursula Von
Hippel. Coward-McCann, 210 Madi-
son Avenue, New York 16. Pp. 16.
$2.00.

HEALTH FOR MODERN LIVING, H. Fred-
erick Kilander. Prentice-Hall, En-
gIewood Cliffs, New Jersey. Pp. 494.
$4.95.

HISTORY OF SQUARE DANCING, THE, S.
Foster Damon. Barre Publishing

Company, Barre, Massachusetts. Pp.
54. $3.25.

HOW TO HOLD AN AUDIENCE (Success-
ful Public Speaking), Howard Geo.

Garrett. The Citadel Press, 222
Fourth Avenue, New York 3. Pp.
191. $3.50. ‘

HOW TO MAKE CERAMICS, Gertrude

Engel. ArcO Publishing Company,
480 Lexington Avenue, New York
17. Pp. 144. $2.00.

INDIAN TIPI, THE, (History, construc-
tion and use), Reginald and Gladys
Laubin. University of Oklahoma
Press, Norman, Oklahoma. Pp. 208.
$3.95.

NATIONAL STAY-IN-SCHOOL CAMPAIGN.
Superintendent of Documents, Gov-

ernment Printing OfIice, Washington
25, D. C. Pp. 24. $.15.
ON BEING A LEADER. Association Press,

306

      

291 Broadway, New York 7. Pp. 15.
$.25.

PAPER FIGURES, Anna E. Pauli and Mar-
garet S. Mitzit. Charles A. Bennett
Company, 237 North Monroe Street,
Peoria, Illinois. Pp. 102. Paper
$2.00.

PERSPECTIVES ON ADMINISTRATION,
Dwight Waldo. University of Ala-

bama Press, University, Alabama.

Pp. 143. $2.50.

PLANNING YOUR EXHIBIT, Jane. Lane
and Beatrice K. Tolleris. National
Publicity Council for Health and
Welfare Services, 257 Fourth Ave-
nue, New York 10. Pp. 32. Paper
$1.25 (plus $.05 postage).

PLANTS INDOORS, C. R. Boutard. Abe-
Iard-Schuman, 404 Fourth Avenue,
New York 16. Pp. 254. $4.50.

PLAYS FOR THE CHURCH. National
Council of the Churches Of Christ,
120 East 23rd Street, New York 10.
Pp. 40. $.50 (plus $.05 postage).

PSYCHIATRIC ASPECTS OF SCHOOL DE-
SEGREGATION (Report #37). Group

for the Advancement Of Psychiatry,
1790 Broadway, New York 19. Pp.

95. Paper $1.00.

RECREATION LEADERSHIP ( #87) , W. C.
Sutherland. Bellman Publishing Com-
pany, P.O. Box 172, Cambridge 38,
Massachusetts. Pp. 36. Paper $1.00.

RIFLERY: SIIOOTING’S FUN FOR EVERY-
ONE; WHAT EVERY PARENT SHOULD
KNOW . . . WHEN A BOY OR GIRL
WANTS A GUN. Sportsmen’s Service

Bureau, 250 East 43rd Street, New
York 17. Free.

SCIIOOL AND COLLEGE SAFETY (Current
Safety Topics—Volume 24). Na-
tional Safety Council, 425 North

Michigan Avenue, Chicago 11. Pp.
130. Paper $.85.

SEx FACTS AND FICTION FOR TEEN-
AGERS, Eugene B. Mozes. Otten-

heimer Publishers, 4805 Nelson Ave-

nue, Baltimore 14, -Maryland. Pp.
169. $2.95.

SONGS THE MOIIAWKS SING. Mary R.

Carse. Mary R. Carse, Hinesburg,
Verlnont. Pp. 6. $3.50.

SUCCESSFUL SUPERVISION, John D. Ger-
Ietti and Frank B. Black. William C.

Brown COlnpany, Dubuque, Iowa.

Pp. 66. Paper 3200.

TEACH YOURSELF BOOKS: PER-
SPECTIVE DRAWING, H. F. Hollis, Pp.
198; HANDWEAVING, Eve Cherry, Pp.
191. Roy Publishers, 30 East 74th
Street, New York 21. Each $2.50.

TIIIRTY PLAYS FOR CLASSROOM READ-
ING, Donald D. Durrell and B. Alice

Crossley. Plays, Inc., 8 Arlingto

Street, Boston 16. Pp. 206. $3.75
(trade edition) ; $3.00 (text edition)

UNDERSTANDING GIRLS, Clarence G
Moser. Association Press, 29

Broadway, New York 7. Pp. 252
$3.50.

WHAT EVERY WRITER SHOULD 
ABOUT PUBLISHING HIS OWN BOO '
Exposition Press, 386 Fourth Ave
nue, New York 16. Pp. 23. 3.25. '

WHY AND HOW OF DISCIPLINE, TH
Aline B. Auerbach. Child Study As
sociation of America, 132 East 74t
Street, New York 21. Pp. 43. 5.40.

Magazine Articles

THE AMERICAN JOURNAL OF SOCIOLOG‘I
May 1957
A Preliminary Biinography on Lei
sure, Reuel Denney and Mary Le
Meyersohn.

   

THE CRIPPLED CHILD, June 1957
Aquatic Therapy (Program for han
dicapped) , Edward J. Koeneman .

JUNIOR LEAGUE MAGAZINE July-Augu
1957

Junior Leagues and Senior Citizen.

NEA JOURNAL, May 1957
I Live with Teen-Agers, Novell.r
Duboise. I

The Gift of Time, August Hecksclter

PARK MAINTENANCE, June 195 7
What Happens when Parks, Recrea
tion, Forestry Merge? '

SENIOR CITIZEN, August 1957
Senior Citizen Month Widely 0
served. _
' The Seminar at Rock Island, Alber
T. Sands.

The Wonderful Gift Of Laughter,
Fern. Long.

SWIMMING POOL AGE, June 1957
Portable Air-Supported Dome Ca
Add Months to Your Swinnnin
Season.
Aquatics for the Mentally Retarde
Stratton. F. Caldwell.
A Survey of Pool Structure in Hig

Schools and Colleges, John Pa
Star/i.

Checklist of Pool Design and Con

struction.
Increase Your Pool Attendance. 
WOMAN’S DAY, July 1957 It

Art of Arranging Flowers, Rache
Carr.

, August, September, Octobe
1957

Lesson in Flower Arranging (i
three parts), Rachel Carr.

RECREATIO.

 

Recreation
in the Age of Automation

Paul F. Douglass, John I.. Hutchinson
and Willard C. Sutherland, Editors.
American Academy of Political and So-
cial Science, 3937 Chestnut Street,
Philadelphia 4. Paper $2.00.

The September 1957 issue of The

Annals of the American Academy of
Political and Social Science is devoted
to the subject of “Recreation in the Age
of Automation.” In 80,000 words, writ-
ten by twenty-seven distinguished lead-
ers in American life, the volume assem-
bles facts for handy reference, surveys
the profession of recreation critically
but constructively, and ends with “An
Agenda for Recreation,” designed by
Professor James C. Charlesworth, pres-
ident of the academy, to provide a guide
for the further discussion of major
1ssues.

The volume is divided into six parts.
Part I attempts to clarify basic con-
cepts. Part II discusses the movement
toward professional leadership and pro-
fessional standards as the fact of leisure
is assimilated into the intellectual, emo-
tional, and spiritual life of our times.
Part III presents a series of sampling
papers to indicate through an examina-
tion of some.few representative areas
of specialization the breadth, depth, and
thrust of the leisure mode. Part IV gives
three papers of commercial recreation
to indicate (1) the resurgence of par-
ticipation in a family sport (boating),
l 2) geographical range and mobility as
shown by travel, and (3) a new concept
of debt in terms of a budget program
for leisure enjoyment. Part V presents
two representative case histories in pub-
lic recreation to emphasize the need for
planning, for professional and techni-
cal competence, and, above all, for the
necessity of political literacy and civil
Courage in the SUppOI‘I of recreation pol-
icies. The concluding section summar-
izes fundamental issues.

Above all, this volume indicates the
growth of professionalism in recreation
administration, an encouraging devel-
opment in the reconstruction of philoso-
phy, and toward growth, depth, and
quality.

Because the Philadelphia Department

OCTOBER 1957

PUBLICATIONS

Covering the Leisure-time Field

of Recreation believes The Annals to be
unsurpassed for in-service training,
Recreation Commissioner Robert Craw-
ford has ordered one hundred and fifty
c0pies for presentation to each profes-
sional staff member for individual read-
ing, group study. A special display of
The Annals has been planned for the
National Recreation Association Book
Center at National Recreation Congress
in Long Beach, an'd copies will be avail-
able to members of the 2nd Annual In-
stitute on Recreation Administration.
Members of the recreation profession
will find two articles of major impor-
tance in Part I. George Soule of the
Twentieth Century Fund discusses “The
Economics of Leisure,” to identify a
measurable concept. He comes up with
a definition that leisure is time not com-
mcrcially sold. The other Daper. by
Professor John T. Howard of the Mas-
sachusetts Institute of Technology, is
an exciting exploration into “Metro-
politan Growth and Planning.”

Section II, “Professional Develop-
ment and Control,” provides enough
factual analysis and provocative points
of view to keep state societies buzzing
for the rest of the year. For example,
Norman Miller of the University of
California at Los Angeles gives a de-
tailed discussion of “Professional Edu-
cation” and relates the subject to person-
nel needs and policies. Professor Gar-
rett Eppley of the University of Indi-
ana moves into the area where lesser
angels would fear to tread by inventory-
ing professional associations and show-
ing how they might be coordinated and
combined so recreation could speak
with “one voice.”

Among many other notable discus-
sions of special interest to administra-
tors concerned with personnel is the
paper by the National Recreation Asso-
ciation’s Willard C. Sutherland. He
points out that comparative studies in
the use of leisure show a higher posi-
tion, larger income, and increased se-
curity do not necessarily lead to cul-
ture. Unless material advancement is
combined with personal example and
the persuasion exercised by the pres-
ence of intelligent standards for the use
of leisure, it may end in boredom, neu-
rosis, and general decadence. He sees

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

the necessity for professional workers
who continue experiencing inner growth
and increasing technical competence.
For many years this publication will
be studied as a whole and referred to
by articles. Profesor Charlesworth’s
“Agenda” will keep discussion at boil-
ing point for a long time—Charles
C ran ford, Deputy Commissioner of Rec-
reation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

A Contribution to the Heritage
of Every American

Nancy Newhall. Alfred A. Knapf,
50l Madison Avenue, New York 22.
Pp. I79. $I3.50.

This is a beautiful publication. The
printing, paper, photography, binding
arc all in keeping with the subject, which
deals with. John D. Rockefeller, Jr.’s
contributions to scenic America and to
the conservation of this country’s nat-
ural beauty. This boxed edition has
stunning color-photo end papers and

SQUARE DANCE?
FOLK DANCE?

RECORDS - BOOKS - SUPPLIES

Official Suppliers to
Colleges and City Departments

No postage charge—no packing charge—orders

shipped same day as received—complete Stock of
all labels in the field.

Send for free Catalogs and a sample copy of

AMERICAN SQUARES

The Magazine of American Folk Dancing
"59 Broad Street, Newark 2, N. .l.

’ P YGROUND
lamlttt'sli‘ww

tth rugged Lne. Write fa' free. (atolog of 254
items.

 

Kim a
1‘1? '-

JOntison Manufacturinq Co.
8781 South Mentor Stwnt
las Angelo: 3, Ca. tam a

Direct Fpetory
Prices 3. Discounts
To Churches, Clubs,
Lodges. Schools

and All Organiza-
tionl.

Over 4.6.000 in-
stitutions own
and use modern
Monroe Folding
Banquet Tables.

Write for the new
MONROE 50TH
ANNIVERSA 1?. Y
(LA T A L0 G of
Folding T a b lea .
Folding Chairs,
Trucks. Movable
Partitions. Fold-
ing Risers. etc. .
Get our special prices.

quantity discounts. also terms.

Mam-ac Co.. 181 Church St.. Colfax. Iowa

 

 

307

thirty-two color plates, as well as ap-
proximately 150 other photographs.

In an epilogue, Horace Marden Al-
bright says, “I hope that this book will
lead more and more people to share in
the responsibility of all of us as individ-
uals to preserve our heritage. Many,
through voluntary association, can give
material support to conservation proj-
ects together that they could not give
separately. Legislators intelligently con-
cerned with conservation deserve and
need wide support from more citizens
who will take the trouble to inform
themselves of new needs and weak spots
in our conservation program.”

The story is one of the realization of
early vision and of the desire of one
man to preserve natural beauty for the
enjoyment of the greatest number of
people. Every park and recreation per-
son will want to examine it, own it, give
it as a gift.

The Creation of Sculpture

Jules'Struppeck. Henry Holt and
Company, 383 Madison Avenue, New
York 17, Pp. 260. $8.00.

This book should be reviewed by an
artist, preferably a sculptor. For this

mntxor ADVERTISERS

PACE
All Metal Tennis Table Company ....... m. 297
American Playground Device Company-____ 299
American Squares __._m,____._____._-,__-. 307
Beltz Engineering Laboratories __...   302
The J. E. Burke Company ---_____.____.____h_._ 305
California State Personnel Board __ can“..- _ 302
Ca mp Tamarack _______.._--__-__-_____-._..___._. 302
Peter Carver Associates ..__-__..   299'
Castello Fencing Equipment .. 297

Chicago Roller Skate Company
 _-“______.._......___ Outside Back Cover

 

 

'Exposition Press __..-__,_______.__.-_-_-_  302
Greenwich Book Publishers _._.-..-..-.-.._._ 302
H. 8 R. Manufacturing Company_____--__ -- 302
Harvard Table Tennis Company---  283
Hillerich 8 Bradsby _.__.___-,. Inside Front Cover
Hillyard  ____ 277
Jamison Manufacturing Company ,______._ _ 307
Jayfro Athletic Supply Company _____ __ 302
Mal's Recording Service __.____....._,. . _- 302
Monroe Company m- --______....___. - 307
Nissen Trampoline Company --..  __ 286
Park Maintenance ______-_____..._._ ...__. . 305
Parks 8 Recreation . W---“  299
Rawlings Sporting Goods Company.  299
The Ronald Press Company _____________ -_ 297
Speed-A-Way _. ________________ _, - _______ -- 305
Square Dance Associates -.._   280
Superior Industries Corporation -_.______ 305
Vogel-Peterson Company ............ -. -  297
Voit _-__..___-,-_.t______.-.__-__.....  . 305
Wise Engineering Company __  281
X—acfo, Inc.   _  305
308

reason, no attempt to judge the quality
of the techniques explained will be made
here.

The reaction of a non-sculptor to this
book, however, seems to warrant calling
it to the attention of those recreation de-
partments fortunate enough to have
skilled instructors in arts and crafts. A
class in ceramics or clay modeling, for
example, could go very easily, and with
increasing enthusiasm, into the tech-
niques of sculpture in clay described and
illustrated so clearly here.

In fact, this book should be very im-
portant to the development of progres-
sion not only in clay, but in such media
as plaster, metals, plastics and wood.
The preliminary, explanatory chapters
are excellent for the development of an
understanding of and appreciation for
sculpture.

It is beautifully printed and contains
many helpful, photographic illustra-
tions. The author, of the Newcomb
College of Art, Tulane University, has
created a book capable of holding the
interest and enthusiasm of a non-spe-
cialist. It will do so to an even higher
extent when read and used by someone
with training and experience in this or

allied fields.
If You Live with Little Children*

Carolyn Kauffman and Patricia Far-
rell. G. P. Putnam's Sons, 210 Madison
Avenue, New York 16. Pp. 145. $3.50.

If you have any small children, if you
know anyone who has small children,
and if you have any experience of any
sort with small children, this is the book
for you! It is designed to help children
to entertain themselves and make life
with small children the fun it should be.
Anyone who can read it without chuck-
ling over something on almost any page
should be a hermit. It is the best book
on home play from the point of view of
enjoying small children that I have
read.

Mixed with excellent devices for get-
ting along with them, with the least pos-
sible irritation and the most possible
enjoyment, are hundreds of clever de-
vices and pungent advice, given with a
rare sense of humor.

Under “Things that Often Happen at
Birthday Parties” are such comments
as: “The host cannot bear it when
‘Happy Birthday’ is sung to him. It is
too overpowering an experience, so he
hides under the table, puts his fingers
in his ears, or makes loud noises. . . .
You send your child to a party next
door, and in five minutes he wanders
home again. . . . The host greets his
guests by saying, ‘Where’s the present?’

 

* Available from the NRA Recreation Book

Center, 8 West Eighth Street, New York 11.

. . . The host goes to his room and won’t
come out.”

Anyone with any dealings with pre- :

school-age children will not only get

many excellent ideas for interesting

play activities, but will benefit from the
warmth and understanding that flows
through every page of this book—Vir-
ginia M usselman, NRA Program De-

partment.

Modern Dance

Building and Teaching Lessons
Second Edition

Aileene Lockhart. Wm. C. Brown
Company, 215 West Ninth Street, Du-
buque, Iowa. Pp. 158. Paper $3.00.

Modern dance is a creative art form
and a basic art experience. Give your
young people a chance at it! Use this
new and revised edition of a book de-
signed to help any leader start a group
in this creative art form. All leaders or
teachers cannot be trained dance spe-
cialists; but this publication acquaints
the beginner with the basic rhythms and
patterns which can be fun, stimulate in-
terest and further activity in this field.

The book carries detailed sections
with instructions and illustrations which
include beautifully prepared charts and
music drawings. The sections are on:
Warm-Ups; Rhythmic Fundamentals;
Factors Related to Movement: Move-
ment Fundamentals and Dance Skills;
Creative Activity; Evaluation.

Let this book be an open door for
your boys and girls—to an exciting new
experience.

Folk Dancing
Second Edition

Grace I.. Fox and Kathleen Gruppe
Merrill. Ronald Press, 15 East 26th
Street, New York 10. Pp. 89. $3.50.

Here is a second edition of a book
of teaching suggestions and directions
for dances from a variety of countrics.
It includes American squares with a
description of basic figures and forma-
tions. A classified index lists contents
according to nationalities. Music is
given in most instances and has been
arranged as simply as possible. Sketches
in black and white by Charlotte St.
John reflect the spirit of the dances, por-
tray the native costumes. and add great-
ly to the attractivcncss of the book.

SU3SCRIPTION RATES

I year ................................................ ..$4.00
.2 yeors ................................................ .. 7.25
Foreign ................................................ .. 4.50

Library subscriptions .......................... .. 3.70

Club subscriptions .............................. .. 3.50
(Ten or more individuals subscribing at one time)

RECREATION MAGAZINE
8 West Eighth Street, New York II, N. Y.

 

Races.”on

J
J.
I
|

 

Recreation Leadership Training Courses

Sponsored by the National Recreation Association
and

Local Recreation Agencies

October, November and December 1957

HELEN M, DAUNCEY Abilene, Texas Scott Fikes, Director of Parks and Recreation

Social Recreation 0010139? 21'24'
Fayetteville, Arkansas Dr. Troy Hendricks, Head, Department of Health, Physical Educa-
October 28-31 tion and Rccrcation, Univcrsity of Arkansas

RUTH G. EHLERS Canton, Ohio C. W. Schnake, Recreation Director, Memorial Auditorium

Social Recreation 00101)“ 28°31
State of Vermont Mrs. A. O. Brungardt, Vermont Director of Recreation, Montpelicr

November 5-15

FRANK A- STAPLES Klamath Falls. OTCSOH Robert Bonney, Director, Parks and Recrcation, City Hall
Arts and Crafts 00101361‘ 21-31

Mr. Staples will conduct two-week periods of training at the following Air Bases, November 4-28: Warrcn Air Force Base.
Cheyenne, Wyoming, and Lowry Air Force Base, Denver, Colorado. For further information regarding these write to Howard
Beresford at 3055 Bellaire, Denver 7, Colorado.

a

Miss Daunccy and Mr. Staples will be in attendance at the 39th National Recreation Congress in Long Beach, Scptcmbcr 30-
October 4.

Attendance at training courses conducted by National Recreation Association leaders is usually open to all who wish to attend.

For details as to location of the institute, contents of the course, registration procedure, and the like, communicate with the sponsor
of the course as listed above.

 

0rder NOW and SAVE!

BINDERS for W

0 Blue heavy simulated leather stamped in gold

0 Each holds one year’s issues 0 Opens [lat for changes

1954, 1955, 1957, 1958 and Undated

$3.00 each
After January 1, 1958 the price will be $3.50

 

RECREATION MAGAZINE, 8 West Eighth Street, New York 11

 Space for l or . 

OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO00......

 

they All can have Active fun in your gy'm

Roller skating is more fun than a barrel of monkeys, and it
entertains and exercises more people in less space than any other sport.
Little equipment is needed, little supervision is necessary.
That’s why more and more schools are making roller skating a definite

part of their physical education and recreation programs.

NEW RUBBER-PLASTIC WHEELS ARE KIND TO GYM FLOORS

  
 
 

These new Duryte rubber-plastic wheels autwear others and
are guaranteed not ta mar ar scratch the flaars. “Chicaga”
has a skate designed far any type at flaar surface ar finish.
Write taday far free details an roller skating pragrams and

skating equipment.

a» 
4-
 Chicago Roller Skate Co., 4490-J W. Lake Street, Chicago 24, Ill.

      

