LS Mn 1']; P501 1'16? .L] l’u‘HJ']
13/111 0 Mn rray (In! lwgv
J uckaonvjue. illinoiv

‘50‘ L; M

8*“;

   
  

"7e m” be glad to send you copies of the
i957 Lauiuvlle Slugger Ba! and Grand Slam
Gal] Club Catalog: for your ready relerenre
in ordering from your dealer. Address
Hillericb G Bradsby Company, Dept. R-7.

HILLERICH 8: BRADSBY CO., INC., Louisville 2, Ky.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

        

ESPECIALLY DESIGNED
FOR HEAVY DUTY USE

':  and
BALL BOUNCE ,

4 LEGS TO

2 SECTIONS EACH SECTION

Nationally recognized and used by
the ARMED FORCES. COllEGES.
MUNICIPAlITIES. RECREATION CEN-
TERS. SCHOOlS. CLUBS. PARKS.etc.

' No Malntenonce or Replacement Problems.
' Sturdy Llfetllne Construction.
' Heavy Duty Anodized Alun-Ilnuin throughout.

' SECURELY INSTALLED HEAVY GAUGE
ALUMINUM CENTER NET-ALSO AYAILAILE.

germ; All MEIAliENNIS MEL! (0.
I WRITE P.O.BOX 142,1EANECK,NJ.

FOR ENAMELING
I. CERAMICS
Chamber Sizes:
aux 911x41/2n
Tl"xl 1"x6 if; "

‘I 3"x1 3"!6 V1"

Greast Kiln Values A vaifable!

A Model To Suit Every School,
Studio or Hobby Need !

Controlled heat, quick recovery Duo-Kilns
range from only $29.95 to $107.50. They
offer performance. dependability and price
advantages far in excess of any other kiln
group on the marketl Before buying. get
the Duo-Kiln facts and comparel

WRITE TODAYI We will rush our new
kiln literature by return mail. A4003

DUO-KllN MFG. CO.

2185 East 14th Street, Dept. 211 2
Cleveland 15, Ohio

JUNE 1957

 

 

 

Wear Your Golden Age Club Pin With
Prlde Wherever You May Go

Designed by representatives
of over 100 Golden Age clubs
and used nationally.

Gold colored metal with
evergreen tree in jewelers’
‘ " enamel. Symbolic of longlife,

EXACT SIZE strength and perseverance.
The words LOVE, PLAY, LEARN, SERVE
(greatest values of club membership) en-
ameled in black. The border is a laurel
wreath for honor. Safety catch.

Available Only to Authentic Clubs.

50¢ each, minimum order 10 pins.
22 N. 6th Street

 

I James Spenceré. Co. madame. p... I

designed by a
champion for
championship
performance

World’s Finest Official Regulation Board

 

 

 

BOOK MAN USCRIPTS

CONSIDERED
by cooperative publisher who alien authors early
publication, higher royalty, national distribution. and
beautifully designed book‘. All rubjectn welcomed.
Write, or .mnd your manuscript directly.

GREENWICI-I BOOK PUBLISHERS
Attn. Mr. Hitchcock 489 Fifth Avenue
New York '17, N. Y.

 

ICE WHEN YOU WANT IT

with

BELTEMP

artificial ice skating rinks by

BELTZ ENGINEERING LABORATORIES
11021 Whittier Avenue
Detroit 24. Michigan. VEnice 9-1811

lifetime Construction, Unequaled Performance and Safety

RADICALLY DIFFERENT in _design and
construction, unequaled 1n perform-
ance by any other board you’ve seen.

BUILT LIKE AN AIRPLANE WING—
Aircraft structural design combined
with spring-leaf principle and heat-
tempered, specially alloyed aluminum
are joined in an assembly of great
strength, uniform flexibility and
incomparable springing qualities.

PRACTICALLY UNBREAKAILE — Many
times stronger than actual load re-
quirements—will withstand severest
use day after day, yet continue to
give unmatched performance and
maximum springing action year after
year, free of repairs or replacement.

SPRING-LEAF CONSTRUCTION gives

much greater strength at fulcrum
where needed, and lightness at tip.

   
  
  
  

PATENTS
PEN DING

' P'

EXCLUSIVE DISTRIBUTORS

WORLD'S LARGEST MANUFACTURERS OF FINE
PARK, PICNIC, PLAYGROUND, SWIMMING

POOI. AND onessmo noom’ common

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATIOA.

.ayM’r'ite for Literature

EFFORTLESS TAKE-OFFS, MORE HEIGHT
WITH LESS EFFORT—No other board
has such buoyant springing qualities
or is so stable underfoot. Built-in
resilience lasts as long as the board.

SAFEST DIVING BOARD EVER DESIGNED
—Aircraft structure eliminates
torque (twisting action) at tip of the
board. Battleship Safety Tread, 18"
wide, safest non-slip covering known.

WEIGHS LESS than conventional wood

or coated wood boards, easier to in-
stall or remove. The only board that
fits any regulation diving standard.

ENDS BROKEN BOARD PROBLEM—
eliminates repair and replacement
expense indefinitely, pays for itself
in a few years. The entire board is
anodized for permanent protection
against salt water and all corrosion.

No. APL-14 Lifetime Aluminum Board
14’ long, weight 130 lbs. . . . $329.50

No. APL-16 Lifetime Aluminum Board
16’ long, weight 140 lbs. . . . $349.50

   
  

  

' a.»

AMERICAN

PLAYGROUND DEVICE CO.
ANDERSON, INDIANA, U. S. A.

 
 

193

._________

BIG ILLUSTRATED

LEATHERCRAFT
CATALOG

There is no hner source of materials for Leather-
craft proiects at all kinds . . . easy-ta-assemble

kits to enable beginners to make billfalds,
gloves, purses, belts and other attractive items

. top quality tooling and carving leathers
for advanced craftsmen. Also complete line at
Leathercraft tools, accessories, supplies and
instruction books.

ATTENTION

METALCRAFT

HOBBYISTS

Here ls a comprehenslve Illustrated catalog
from which yau can make your selection of
alumlnum and copper in sheets and shapes for
many proiects; copper, aluminmn and brass
foil for metal tooling; kilns, colors and kits
for metal enameling; lnstructlon boaks, taols
and accessories for metalcratt at all kinds.

SEND TODAY FOR EITHER
OR BOTH FREE CATALOGS

L C.LAR80N CO.

820 S. TRIP AVE., DEPT. 7105
CHICAGO 24, ILLINOIS

 

  

Available an
78 RPM or
LP (33 1/3

_RPM)
In

3:
Ed Durlacher's “Talk-Through,-
Walk-Through“ System of Slm-

plitied Progresslve tnstructlon,
tollawed by the Complete Dance.

  

1;.

 r.

 

 

GUARANTEED
NOT TO BREAK

O

CHIP 0R
CRACK

l  ’90 0&9  

PARKS are the setting for many
Recreation Programs.

PARK administration and know-
how aid and complement your
work.

The PARK and RECREATION pic-
ture is a dynamic, changing
one.

Only one magazine leads in com-
plete coverage of this field:

I from new products to new
presidents of societies

I from how to put a bond
issue across to the latest

SWIMMING POOL data
and design.

Join our family of over 14,000
readers who use PM as their
working tool.

Send your purchase order to:

PARK MAINTENANCE

Dept. ll
P. O. Box 409

Appleton, Wisconsin

One year—$3.00
Groups of five or more, one year—

Three yea rs—S7.50

$2.00 per person.

 

   
       
 
  
    
 

 
 

  
   
 
  

Ploy‘Porty
SinginyGomes

SQUARE DANCE ASSOCIATES

'0 Bus 044 hogan”, N T

1 Mail coupon for FREE brochure on all Honor Your Partner Teaching Alas I
I SQUARE DANCE ASSOCtATES P O. Box 644, Freepod, N. Y. I
I Gentlemen: Please send me free brochure of Honor Your Partner Teaching Aids, I
I Name a... I
I Address-_ - - I

 

new
completely
revised
edition!

"PLANNING
FACILITIES”

 

Plans, and Suggestions

For Every Type of Modern
Indoor and Outdoor Facility

0 Athletic Fields I General Plant Features
I Pork-School Facilities 0 Resident Comps
I Stadiums 0 Field Houses 0 Gymnasiums
0 Recreation Buildings 0 Swimming Pools
0 Health Suites 0 Service Areas

Written by the foremost
experts in the united states

Here are the latest recommenda-
tions and ideas presented by Amer-
ica's leading facilities specialists.
City planners. architects, landscape
architects. schoolhouse construc-
tion consultants, and engineers
joined with outstanding athletic.
recreation, physical and health
education leaders in producing this
indispensable facilities plan-book.
It's their handbook for planning
indoor and outdoor facilities I
make it yours. too! 1,-

5250

Send orders to:

THE ATHLETIC INSTITUTE

209 50. State St. 1
Chicago 4, Illinois 

 

I.
I

POSTPAID
Na C.O.D.'s

194 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. ll Helmsrm I

JUNE 1957

 

Editor in Chief, JOSEPH PRENDERGAST
Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON
Editorial Assistant, AMELIA HENLY
Business Manager, ALFRED H. WILSON

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Recreation Administration, GEORGE BUTLER
Program Activities, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

Vol L. Price 50 Cents No. 6

0n the Cover
TEDDY THE HERMIT spins a yarn filled with

the magic of the sea. Remember the beaches when
you were a boy—the Shells, driftwood and other
mysteries hidden in the clean white sand? Why,
some of these things might have been washed all
the way from China! (Let us make our shorelines
available for the 'enjoyment of all people.)

Teddy lived as a squatter in the Florida state

parks until his death about two years ago. Photo
courtesy C. H. Sehaefier, Florida Board of Parks.

Next Issue

September RECREATION will he our next. issue.
This is the Congress issue of the magazine, and will
carry an article, on the recreation facilities in Long
Beach, which delegates will have the opportunity
of seeing during Congress time—as well as last-
minute Congress information on meetings, Speakers,
arrangements. Among the other contents will be a
symposium on “What’s Doing in Emery Programs”
in different parts of the country; a summary of the
new Girl Scout survey of adolescent girls; an article
on publicity and decorating for parties by a Service
Club director; and possibly “New Vistas in Recrea-
tion Through the Use of Tranquilizing Drugs.” This

last is a digest of the excellent talk given by Dr.
Maurice E. Linden at Philadelphia.

Photo Credits

Page 202 (cartoon), courtesy The Hall Syndicate,
Inc., New York City; 204, courtesy Massie, Missouri
Resources Division; 205, William A. Carnett, Alta-
dena, California; 217 (upper right), Sante Fe Rail-
way; 222, William Z. Harmon, Sarasota, Florida.

RECREATION is published monthly except July and
August by the National Recreation Association, a service
organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 8
West Eighth Street, New York 11, New York, is on
fileotn public libraries and is indexed in the Readers’
Grade. Subscriptions $4.00 a year. Canadian and for-
eign subscription rate 34.50. Re-entered as second-class
matter Apr: 25, 1950. at the Post OHice in New York,
New York, under Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance
for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in
Section 1103. Ac: of October 3, I917. authorized May
I, 1924. Microfilrns of current issues available Uni-
versity Microfilms. 313 N. First Street, Ann Arbor.
Michigan.

Space Representativer: Mark Minahan, 168 North
Michigan Avenue, Chicago. Illinois.

Copyright. 195 7. by the
National Recreation Association, Incorporated

Printed in the U.S.A. " .
Genie 

‘
'ton‘

‘ Trade mark registered in U. S. Patent OEce.

JUNE 1957

 

 

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

CONTENTS

GENERAL FEATURES
Let’s Save Our Recreation Lands (Editorial) W'alter S. Blueher 197

New Dimensions in Recreation . . . . . . . . . .Joseplt Prentlergast 199
The Loss Of Local Park Lands tO Highway Planning
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .D. Donaldson 201

The Land Crab for Building Purposes . . . . . .Ceorge D. Butler 204

What You Can Do About Encroachment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 206

How Golden Gate Park Was Saved . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 203

Drag Strips vs No Drag Strips . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 210

Recreation Developments in 1956 . . . . . . . . . .Charles S. Reed 212

What To DO and See in Long Beach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 216
ADDIINISTRATION
The Importance of Land . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 226
Park Acreage to POpulation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 223
lNotes for the Administrator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 230
Court Decisions Affecting Swimming Pools . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 232
PROGRADI
Brainstorming in Recreation (Idea of the Mouth)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Mary Frances Sargent 213

Softball Is Dead? Not in Saginaw! . . . . . . . . . .Maleolur Elliott 220

Young Citizens Improve Recreation Areas . . . . . . . .B. D. Mott 221

For Successful Nature Hikes . . . . . . . . . .William R. Overlease 222

How To Do It! Make A Banjo . . . . . . . . . . . .Frank A. Staples 224
REGULAR FEATURES .
Letters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 196

Things You Should Know . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 193

Editorially Speaking . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 200

Reporter’s Notebook . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 213

llospital Capsules . . . . . . . . . . . ." . . . . . . . . . . .Beatriee H. Hill 225

How TO Do It! Idea of the Month . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .See Program
Personnel—Second National Institute for Recreation
Executives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . IV. C. Sutherland 234

Blarket News . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 236

Books and Pamphlets Received, Magazine Articles . . . . . . . . . . 233

Classified Advertising . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 233

New Publications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 239

Advertisers Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 240
195

 

Free Film Plan

Receive a complete, exciting sponsored

film program eoch week oll summer—-
for FREE-[CAN [postage only).

Hold each program for a full week—
use as often os you like! The onswer
to your Movie Night or rainy day needs.

 

Sports, travel, science, recreation films
--most in full color—all outstanding!

Mil/l 7/15 COUPON 3&0er

Send for your Free copy of our new
Catalog of Free-loan and Feature Films.

Flavor your program with
A - DASH - OF - DISNEY!

A complete selection of Wolt Disney
Technicolor Classics—-Cortoons, Fea-

tures, True-Life Adventuresuovailoble
for RENTAL.

Enrall my group in MOVIE-A-WEEK:

Starting (date) ........................................ ..and
ending date) ................................................ ..
Each program should run .............. ..minutes.

Far [I Bays El Girls—Ages” .......ta ........ ..

Name ................ .,.: ........................................ ..

Organizatian....: ............................................ ..

Address ................................................ .... ...... ..

City ...........  ............. ..Zone .... ..State ............ ..
[3 Please send Free Catalog

ASSOCIATION FILMS, INC.

347 Madison Ave., N.Y. l7, N.Y.

Branches.-
Ridgefield, N. J. - la Grange, III.
San Francisca,Ca|if. 0 Dallas,Tex.

AF

 

196

  

 

Readers! You are invited to send letters for this page

to Editor, RECREATION, 8 West Eighth Street, New
Y or}: 1 1—50 that your ideas, opinions and attitudes
may be exchanged with others on the wide range of
subjects of concern to us all. Here is your chance to
agree or disagree with the authors of our articles.
Keep letters brief—not rnore than 250 words.

Campm g Issue

Sirs:

It was indeed a pleasant surprise to
see the better part of the March issue
devoted to camping. The broad cover-
age, with its variety of approaches to
camping, should prove very helpful to
the field as a whole.

The stress on what campers are miss-
ing and the concern about the handi-
capped—in this instance the retarded——
are especially noteworthy. It is to be
hoped that this interest in camping will
not be a one-month affair, but will con-
tinue to be spread throughout the year
in your widely read magazine.

IDA OPPENIIEIMER, Executive Direc-
tor, Jewish Vacation Association,

I nc., New York C ity.

Cheek Your Old Files

Sirs:

In going through my old files of
RECREATION magazines, I happened
across the March 1955 issue. After
skimming through it, I felt a letter was
in order. This issue was so chock full
of timely and useful program and ad-
ministrative material that it seemed a
shame that I had left it in my file so
long. Water recreation, creative arts,
swimming pool construction and a
training program for secretaries were
just a few of the wonderful items in this
particular issue.

I believe this is just another example
of the richness of your publication, and
a confirmation of the fact that we in
recreation owe a tremendous debt to
you for the excellence of your publica-
tion over the years.

JOSEPH E. CURTIS, Director of Rec-
reation, Occanside Public Schools,

Occanside, New York.

“Dennis the Menace”
Sirs:
Congratulations on your line story

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

--The Editors.

about our playground. (“ ‘Dennis the

Menace’ Playground,” April 1957.)
HANK KETCHAM, Carmel Valley,
California.

I- 'l- I- I-

Sirs:

I have read the story in your April
issue about the “Dennis the Menace”
playground and I congratulate you on
its excellence.

IRA EMERICH, Executive Vice Presi-
dent, The Hall Syndicate, Inc., New
York C ity.

Q It Q It

Sirs:

The article on our “Dennis the Men-
ace” playground in the April issue of
your magazine was very well done. . . . a
splendid job. . . . we have had several
inquiries about the playground from
people who mentioned reading your
article.

CHARLES F. WARREN, Assistant City
Manager, Montcrey, California.

W'onld Like to Hear
Sirs:

I am writing a book an improvised
athletic and recreation equipment and
would like to hear from your readers
about items they have made and ideas
they have. Any article that can he made
by the average mechanically minded
person in a recreation department’s
maintenance shop or in a school shop
is of interest to me.

I’m collecting plans for items that
have been made and successfully
into a manual which others may use to
build the same things. I feel that the
book will be a benefit to the profession
by helping us stretch our often meager
budgets, so I am asking your assistance
and the contributions of your readers.

JOEL W. CARTER, Ensign, USNR.,
Box 109, Fort Arnador, Canal Zone.

5
I)
52
yk

L

R ecacnrox

 

Let’s Save
Our

Recreation
Lands

EW COMMUNITIES in this country can boast that they
have adequate land for parks and recreation purposes.
Few can boast that they meet the rule-of-thumb standard of
ten acres per thousand persons, for many years considered
the minimum requirement. The tragedy is that we are less
likely than ever to acquire this minimum standard when we
view the way land is being butchered in the suburbs of our
metropolitan areas. A trip across this land of ours, a visit to
any community, large or small, discloses a common pattern:
Residential development is taking place in the outskirts of
the community or outside its limits; the thirty-five-foot lot
fortunately has been increased to the sixty-foot lot in many
instances—but school sites are either non-existent or hope-
lessly inadequate in size, parks have been almost entirely
forgotten, and the playground is the exception rather than
the rule.

It is hard to believe that, in these days of enlightenment,
large developments are taking place with no provision for
recreation areas. While subdivision regulations now com-
monly require installation of sewers, water mains, pave-
ments, sidewalks and other similar public services, statutes
and regulations are hopelessly weak in requirements for
school sites and recreation areas. Developers and home pur-
chasers still do not realize that these are as essential to a
proper community as the heating plant in the house .

One would hope that communities might learn from exper-
ience. There are so many cases of communities that have
waited to acquire recreation areas until all available land
was built up and then, of course, “the land was too eXpensive
to acquire as a playground.” One of the disheartening signs
of the times is our failure to learn anything from the past
and to save enough land for recreation purposes. Through-
out the nation, lands suitable for parks are being used for
choice residential sites. Little is being done to retain such
potential parks. There is failure to recognize that the com-
munity would be far more desirable if the potential site
became a park, that it would further the well-being of the
community.

Does anybody believe the often-eXpressed theory that we
will have much more leisure time in the near future? We are
nearing the four-day week—and what will we do with our
new leisure? I doubt if all of it will be spent building book-

cases or working in the backyard. A grim prediction in
The New York Times (April 22, 1957) warns that, if present

 

MR. BLUCHER is consultant to American Society of Planning
0f7icials, and is one of the top planners of the country.

JUNE 1957

 

Editorial

Walter H. Blucher

trends in metropolitan areas continue, we will need a day to
travel over congested highways to the shore or a lake twenty
miles away and another day to return. Thus, the three-day
weekend will be occupied. Won’t people want to use some of
the time for leisure and recreation activities? Where will
they find space except at a distance from their homes? Then
there is the competition for existing park and recreation
sites. Has the community agreed that it will build a new
armory? What is more logical than to put it into an existing
park? Or if the need is for a museum or an auditorium and
the community doesn’t have enough money for a site—why
not get one free by taking over part of a playground or park?
Need a site for a university? Take over a park. Need a new
school or to expand an existing school adjacent to a play-
ground? Move into the playground. After all, the schools
are short of money—why not save the cost of the site? Short
of money, yes. Short of intelligence, understanding and
foresight? Also, yes. On rare occasions there might be some
logic in substitution of sites, but how frequently is there an
offer of replacement, in land or money for a site taken away?

Many cities are engaged in redevelopment programs; and
the one major fact we have learned is that proper redevelop-
ment or rehabilitation requires more open space than has
heretofore been available in congested residential areas. In
fact, the success of redevelopment or rehabilitation in many
instances depends entirely upon our ability to provide open
space. We must make the central city as desirable (actually)
as the escaping city-dweller dreams the suburb to be. What
a shattering of dreams for many suburban dwellers who have
found that there are fewer large parks in the suburbs than in
the central city they left; that the new suburb cannot adord a
community building for recreation purposes or a swimming
pool. And so the children trek back into town to the “Y”
for swimming!

It is time we awakened to the fact that recreation is essen-
tial to the well-being of the people and of the community, and

if we do not acquire park and recreation land now, there will
be none left to acquire in the future. I

l !

Stop, Look, Listen—Then Act!

Unless an informed public aggressively insists on
its right to adequate park and other recreation areas,
the vanishing wilderness and the vanishing frontier
will be joined by a vanishing opportunity for outdoor

' recreations—JOSEPH PRENDERGAST.

 

197

 

) A $39,500,000 RECREATION AND PARK
BOND ISSUE has just been approved by
voters in Los Angeles, California, by a
three to one majority. This is a great
victory for public recreation.

) TIIE JUNE ISSUE OF Redbook carries
an excellent article on encroachment,
“How to Save Your Community Play
Land,” by Beatrice Schapper. Back-
ground information for this story was
supplied by the National Recreation As-
sociation. The April issue of Redbook
also carried an encroachment article on

roadbuildin g, “They Took Our Homes.”

) HOSPITAL RECREATION WORKERS,
your membership in the National Rec-
reation Association or subscription to
RECREATION Magazine would enable us,
financially, to add pages to the magazine
and give us space urgently needed for
the regular publication of hospital rec-
reation information. If you want the
magazine to include such materials,
don’t wait. Sign up today!

) A 14O-PAGE LIST OF SELECTED REFER-
ENGES, Community Facilities, has just
been published by-the National Associa-
tion of Home Builders, 1625 L Street,
N.W., Washington 6, DC. The “Rec-
reation Facilities” section carries a
number of titles from RECREATION
Magazine. Among other heads in this
publication, are “Community Growth
and Problems”; “Governmental Rela-
tions”; “Financing Community Facili-
ties”; “Zoning”; and “Subdivision
Control.” A limited number of copies
are obtainable free from the National
Housing Center Library, at the above
address.

) STATE PARK DEVELOPMENT plans to
lake care of Washington’s needs for the
next quarter-century were announced
recently by the Washington State Parks
and Recreation Commission, according
to the W.S.R.S. Bulletin. The report,
presenting conclusions reached after an
exhaustive planning study, has been

198

more than a year and a half in prepara-
tlon.

Acquisition of many new park sites,
enlargement and development of exist-
ing sites, and the disposal of a number
of presently unused or unneeded sites
are proposed.

bA PROCLAMATION NAMING JUNE AS
NATIONAL RECREATION MONTH IN New
YORK CITY, was presented by Mayor
Robert F. Wagner, at City Hall on May
29, to Betty Jo Mandlin and Joseph
Prendergast, as representative of the
NRA. Betty J 0, six years old, has been
selected as “Miss Playground” by the
New York City Park Department.

Last minute reports on other procla-
mations of June as National Recreation
Month indicate that so far about half
of the governors in the United States
have taken such action. Others are
scheduled to follow suit soon.

)PRESIDENT DWICIIT EISENII’OWER, in
a message to the National Recreation
Association, also citing June as Na-
tional Recreation Month, says:

“It is my hope that our citizens will
use some of their hard-earned free hours
to enjoy the unparalleled recreational
facilities of Our land. In so doing, they
will enrich their daily lives and con-
tribute to the health of the national
community.”

} SUGGESTIONS OF LITTER-PREVENTION
ACTIVITIES POR PLA‘I'CROUNDS have been
supplied to playground leaders who are
members of the National Recreation As-
sociation by Keep America Beautiful,
Inc. These were drawn up at the request
of the Association. Additional material
or information may be obtained from
KAB headquarters at 99 Park Avenue,
New York 16.

) ANOTIIER USE FOR NRA YEARBOOK
FIGURES, and the importance of cooper-
atiug with the Association in the collect—
ing of such Rgures, is illustrated by the
fact that the National Recreation Asso-
ciation has been asked to work with the
U. S. Census Bureau in providing ree-

 
  
 
    
    
 
  
   
  
    
  
    
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  

reation information on a national basis.
The Association is supplying the burea
with information based on local recrea-
tion developments since the early day
of the Association, to be included in th
revision of a bureau publication en-
titled. Historical Statistics of the Unite
States. The data is being compiled fro .
yearbooks and park studies conducte
by the Association through the years.

} NOW AVAILABLE: Research in Recrea-
tion Completed in 1956. This is a list 0
205 reports. Order from NRA. $1.00.

) COMING IN SEPTEMBER: The new edi-
tion of A Guide to Books on Recreation
(AGBOR to you) is coming 03 the press
soon and will again be mailed to al
RECREATION subscribers as Part I] o
the September issue. New titles bri '_
the list up to more than 850 books, fro
125 cooperating publishers. Thes
books will be displayed at the Nationa
Recreation Congress in Long Beach
California, in September.

) ATTENTION, DELEGATES AND ADVE
TISERS: The September issue of REC
RE-tTION is also the National Recreatio
Congress issue—-carrying last mi
Congress information and aunoun-e
ments of exhibitors. Don’t miss it!

} THE JUNE ISSUE OF Cosmopolitan.
entirely devoted to today’s new leisur
One of the lead articles will quote Ll
executive director of the National Rt
reation Association, Joseph Prend
gast.

) THUMBS DOWN MEANS DON’T CLOW
This slogan, endorsed by the Outboa
Boating Club of America. is to be u. ..
in promoting boating safety this 8111
mer. Use the “Thumbs Down” warni
signal whenever you see any boat goit
through dangerous antics, and ple
help publicize this sign and sloOr
“Thumbs Down” to the clown!

) A New BLANKET ACTIVITIES leu
ANCE PLAN is now available to all a
iate members of the National Reert
tiou Association. Previously, nlemb
organizations could get low cost b
ball-softball team coverage throt
their alliliate membership with the N
tioual Recreation Association. No
the new plan has been developed to O .
insurancecoverage to all participa
age nineteen and under, in a supervi-
recreation activity. The contact spo
of tackle football, ice hockey, lacro
and boxing are excluded. Write to Nl .

for a free descriptive brochure. '

l

R ECREATIt

7¢em Dimmedam in Recreation

“Space means to a man that which

he has experienced for himself. . . .”

. SEPTEMBER, 1945, Howard
Braucher expressed the relationship
between atomic power and recreation in
these words: “Making use of the power
of the atom is a great achievement in the
physical world. We cannot tell where
this may lead. An equally great dis-
covery of our times is the power there
is in recreation, in making it possible
and easy for all people to live richly,
deeply, vitally each day.”

I would like to carry this relationship
between recreation and the new dis-
coveries of science a step further. The
phrase “new dimensions” has, for most
people, the connotation of dimensions
in relation to space; and space nowa-
days—that is since Einstein brought out
his theory of relativity—is all mixed up
with time and speed.

It has intrigued me to note that “new
dimensions” in terms of space, time and
speed also means “new dimensions” in
terms of recreation and physical educa-
tion. This is so because of the para-
doxes inherent in the very concepts of
space, time and speed.

For example, the paradox of space is
the simple fact that as Space expands,
it contracts. We look around this room
and say to ourselves, this is a good size
room, but then we think of the Space
immediately outside this building and
the space in this room seems smaller. We
think of the size of the United States
or of the world and this community and
the state itself shrink in size.

Today one talks-of spacemen, with
earth satellites already under construc-
tion—and of a perpetually expanding
universe. Yet space for the individual
human being is contracting and will
continue to contract—not just figura-
tively or relatively, but realistically and
actually—way below the normal needs

MR. PRENDERGAST is executive director
of the National Recreation Association.

JUNE 1957

not only of the American frontiersman
of yesteryear but of the average Ameri-
can today, if something is not done soon
to preserve our present parks and recre-
ation areas and remaining open spaces.

Most of us, in our own lifetime, have
experienced for ourselves this Space
contraction. Where, for example, are
the vacant lots in the built-up areas
where once we played our baseball?
Where are the open fields at the edge of
town? Where are the old swimming
holes within walking distance of Main
Street? Where are the empty beaches,
the open road, the silent woods?

Open Spaces are disappearing with
great rapidity because of the tremen-
dous growth of our population and its
growing concentration in our metropoli-
tan areas. The urbanization or rather,
to Speak more accurately, the suburban-
ization of America is wiping out poten-
tial parks and other recreation areas
even before the need for them is felt.
Today there are over 170,000,000
people in America. By 1975, there will
be at least 225,000,000 people in the
United States alone.

What is even more tragic, we are not
even hanging on to the pitiful little
parkS and recreation areas which we
were able to acquire in past years.
Hardly a month or week goes by that
the National Recreation Association
does not receive a desperate call from
a community to help save a park or play-
ground from being given over to hous-
ing developments, commercial exploita-
tion, firehouses.

School buildings and highways—
wonderful things in and of themselves
—are terrible things to contemplate in
their possible ruthless destruction of a

community’s parks and open Spaces.
Hospital construction and public hous-
ing were bad enough, but just wait until
the highwaymen come riding along with
their millions of dollars to Spend.

Joseph Prendergast

What good, I ask you, is 1,800,000,-
000 times 6,000,000 miles or more of
space if a boy can’t find enough space
in which to throw a ball, or a girl to Skip
a r0pe, or old pe0ple to sun and gossip?

There is also a paradox of time and
it, too, has meaning for recreation. To-
day we are destroying time and yet
creating it at the same moment.

We have been gnawing away at time
for centuries and now, suddenly, we
have succeeded in destroying it com-
pletely. It no longer even exists under
certain circumstances. We can fly from
New York and reach California before
we’ve left New York. Just recently a
transport plane flew across the continent
in less than four hours. It was ofiicially
announced some time ago that a jet
plane with a human pilot had traveled
more than 1,900 miles an hour.

Automation and all that automation
means in time saving, or rather in time
creating, goes on.

Whether we’re talking about working
men and women, youth with its longer
periods of educational preparation,
farmers and housewives with their time-
saving equipment and gadgets, or the
older folks with their earlier retirement
and their longer lives, the most con-
Spicuous result of the atomic age is time
—-—leisure time, free time, time for man
to do with as he will.

More and more people with more and
more time for recreation but less and
less space in which to use -it. What
does that mean for park and recreation
pe0ple? For physical educators and all
others who must teach our children?

It means first and last that, if we
are to keep up with the American dream
of perennial opportunity, we must see
visions and plan big. This age of new

dimensions demands new dimensions in
all the plans we make, and particularly
for our plans for recreation. l

199

Editorially Speaking

 

 

1:43..
Drawing by Dedini,
© 1957, T he New Yorker Magazine, Inc.

No Longer Separate Entities

“Parks and recreation are bound to-
gether in a common function. Let us
hope that the day has passed when these
agencies considered themselves separ-
ate entities. Any recreation agency
worth its salt must recognize the in-
trinsic recreative values of parks. All
visitors to parks come seeking a kind of
satisfaction, be it a “supreme emotional
experience” in one of the great national
parks, rest and relaxation, participation
in active pursuits, or understanding of
the principles of the universe. To serve
basic human needs—physical, emotion-
al, intellectual, and social—is the pri-
mary function of all park and rccrea-

tion agencies.

' “Today, we have a bcttcr understand-

ing than ever before of their close rela-
tionship. There is a mecting of minds

which should make possible in the years
ahead such park and recreation prog-
ress as has never before been known.—-”

REYNOLD E. CARLSON, Professor of Rec-

reation, Indiana University, at the Great
Lakes Park Training Institute, 1 95 7.

A Beautiful World

“I want a world that is beautiful
enough to inspire me, to make me rise
to its defense at the slightest provoca-
tion. I like shade on a hot day. I like
kites on a March day. I want to see the
thrill of discovery in my son’s eyes,
even if it is only a hollow trce full of
owls or a crawfish under a stone that he
Iinds. I want him to have some inkling
as to his place in a society of living
things. I think we all need something
around to remind us that there are

200

things which are bigger than man, like
mountains and trees, older than man,
like rocks, things that man can’t make;
like grass and things so complicated
that man can’t understand them; like
the rich fresh soil.

“I am writing this now having just
seen one of the most beautiful woods I
have ever known bulldozed into noth-
ingness. Today, yellow hills and flimsy
houses stretch over two hundred acres
that in 1936 were bought for a mere
$60,000 as an investment. It was a good
investment all right, for this year it sold
for three times as much; but if it had
been bought as a park, and preserved as
an impressive island in an industrial
community, its value would have been
immeasurable, not to be reckoned in
such earthly items as dollars or acres,
but in inspiration, education, relaxa-
tion and exercise. Ironically, the desert
which has been created from it has been
called Forestwood, and its main street
is Meadowcrest. So we salve our con-
sciences and confuse our descendants!”
—-ALFRED G. ETTER in “Cry, The Be-

loved City,” RECREATION, April 1954.
The Danger of Uniformity

Individual hobbies to ofiset uniform-
ity are urged in the annual report of the
Twentieth Century Fund by August
Hcckscher, fund director. He says that
a new measure of uniformity is reflected
by findings that men and women in
their free time tend to do the same
things, buy the same goods, watch the
same television shows.

Mr. Heckscher concludes that the
United States is in the midst of a pro-
found shift in values and ways of living.
The emphasis on leisure—particularly
with the four-day work week possible
in the future—is bound to remake and
transform much that has becn familiar.

The report observes, “In the best lives
the vocation and the avocation are close-
ly rclated. Men and women have at-
tained leisure only when they recapture
in their free time something of what in
their happiest moments they Iindin work
—-the satisfaction born of having mas-
tered manageable things, the relaxation
that comes from moving in an element
where one feels instinctively at home.”

The Four-Day Week

“Reuther Reports Members Favor
Four-Day Week.” So reads a headline

 
  
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
   
  
   
   
   
    
  

in The New York Times, April 7. 1957.
A few days later, columnist Sylvi
Porter writes in the New York Post, “0

course the four-day week will come i
0u1'land.

“Of course the trend will devel
gradually, selectively, and the four-da
week will be the result of union-indust
bargaining, not of legislation or viole
depression. . . .

“If the trend is given the push pow
ful unions undoubtedly will give it, the
four-day weekiwill be standard for mil-
lions in a wide variety of fields—say in
the early ’60’s. . . . ‘

“Actually, a government survey in
1955-56 revealed that seventeen per cent
of all workers in seventeen major labor

areas already are working on a schedule

of fewer than forty hours. The stand-

ards are changing right now. . . .
“Reuther is not being revolutionary

at all; he is just dramatizing a natural
trend.”

CD
"1
I

LitterBAGS—Not LitterBUGS

Until just a few years ago hardly any-
one had ever heard of litterbags. Today
a large percentage of Americans con-
sider the portable trash container an es-
sential piece of travelling equipment.

Concern over the trash-tossing pro-
pensities of the motoring public is get-
ting results! Many Americans are ac-
cepting an individual responsibility for
maintaining the clean, attractive ap-
pearance of their highways and recrea-
tion areas, and regard the litterbag as a
valuable aid to outdoor housekeeping.

Like everyone else there must have
bcen times when you’ve wondered what
to do with sticky wrappers, used tissues,
the remains of a picnic lunch, or the
many other articles which accumulate
during normal automotive travel. After
a Slight twinge of conscience, pcrhaps
you’ve surreptitiously tossed the whole
mess out the window. From now on,
however, resolve to use a littcrbag in-
stead. Therc are many varieties, from
simple home-made devices to patented
commercial products, but any kind of
sturdy bag will do. Use one, regardlem
of type, and dispose of its contents in
your garbage can at home!

Ultimate Qualification

This itcm appeared recently in a Sun-
day edition of thc Worcester (Massa-
chusetts) Telegram.

TRUE STORY: A North High School teach-
er applied and was found fully qualified by
Civil Service to be a recreation leader in the
park department's summer program. excep
{or one thing. He was missing a molar; so
he was declared ineligible despite protests
of city officials.

“I don't want to bite the kids, just teach
them.” was his sad comment. i

1
Remnant}! l

 

 

A proposal to put a superhighway through Roek Creek
Park in the nalion’s eapital1 met with such strong 0p-
position by various organizations and agencies that the
plan is now apparently dormant as the highway plau-

ners are seeking alternate routes outside park limits.

   

'__—_-'——_————_——_—___

“Lands that have been given for man’s enjoyment of
nature and the outdoors can have no higher use. If

park land is judged necessary to another needed proj-
ect, then and there arrangements should be consum-

mated to pay back the public with other lands to be
develOped for man’s relaxation.”—-—Joseph Prendergast. I

 

D. Donaldson

The Loss of Local Park Lands

F I ‘HE OMINOUS crash of falling trees is being heard across
the land! Has it reached your local parks as yet—or

is it scheduled there for the near future? Will the “new
turnpike” take acres from that last green open space in your
community? If you do not know the answer to this, or the
plans of your state highway commission in relatioii to the
federal aid to highways program, do not hesitate to check
with it at once.

It is said on good authority that the new 42,000-mile inter-
state highway system will take some two million acres of
land, much of it in metrOpolitan areas, and that two-thirds

of it will cross the nation where no highways now exist.2
Today, from coast-to-coast, bulldozers are busily gouging

the earth where once stood woodlands or lawns of cool green
shade. They are cutting across towns and wilderness areas
alike—leveling forest giants, hemlocks and hickories, plough-

ing up the rhododendron beds and the dogwoods of the parks.
Public tennis courts, ballfields, playgrounds, fishing ponds

and campsites are being sacrificed to quick transportation in
this day of speed; and communities are running out of land
for recreation and for beauty. The machine mows shrubs
and blossoms; and, as Lewis Mumford says. “The concrete

clover leaf is becoming our national flower!”
To some, this state of affairs is “progress’?—but to alert,

farseeing park and recreation men it is catastrophe, and very
nearly the crack of doom. For, unless we act quickly and
wisely, it may lead to the disappearance of open space to be

used for the enjoyment of man, and new generations will
know only the thruways, never realizing the beauty that was

1 See “Cry, the Beloved Citv,” RECREATION, April 1954, page 208. and

“Rock Creek Park Day,” October 1956, nage 368.
2 According to New York Congressman Harold Ostertag in Redbook
Magazine, April 1957.

JUNE 1957

to Highway Planning

here. It is a paradox of our day that with our increasing
leisure, space for its enjoyment is pre-empted or destroyed.
We will always want, and need, parks in America because

we are an outdoor people and have been conditioned by the

woodlands and natural playgrounds of a young country. But
what steps are we taking to make sure that we will always

have them?
Joseph Prendergast, executive director of the National
Recreation Association, pointed out in a recent speech:

“The folklore, tradition and fact of the American wilderness,
frontier and open space have had an enormous influence on
the American character. . . . The land of opportunity basic-

ally meant endless Open space where a man could stretch and
achieve individual growth and happiness. Open space for
leisure living is essential for the kind of American character
we cherish.”

In an epilOgue to the recent book about John D. Rocke-
feller, Jr.,3 Horace Marsden Albright quotes an editorial
from The New Y ark Times: “As our urban, mechanized
society spreads itself with increasing speed and destructive-

ness across the land, the human need for preserving contact
with natural areas, with living, wild and growing things, be-
comes 1nore explicit and more pervasive. As natural areas
rapidly diminish, the battle to keep the best of the remaining
ones intact grows more intense.”

And yet we, as a people, recently passed the Federal
Highway Act which leaves the routing of highways in the
hands of state highway officials, subject to federal OK be-
cause the federal government is paying ninety per cent of
the cost. These officials, quite rightly, are primarily con-

3 A Contribution to the Heritage of Every American: The Conservation

Activities of John D. Rockefeller, In, Alfred A. Knopf. $13.50.

201

was muzzmo

M

1110192?!

 

“You’re gonna have to MOVE, mister! We’re

buildin’ a FREEWAY through here!”

cerned with keeping construction costs down and putting
their plans into effective operation with the fewest number
of problems. Last March, John T. Howard, associate pro-
fessor of city planning at the Massachusetts Institute of Tech-
nology, told a national planning conference in San Francisco
that this highway program places a “terrible responsibility”
on highway engineers and “forccs them to make decisions
that have impacts far outside their fields.” They are not
concerned with the preservation of parks, but it is to be
hoped that park and recreation leaders will undertake to
educate them as to the importance of park lands. In any
case, it will pay us to keep a sharp eye on what may be hap-
pening in our own communities!

In Decembcr, 1956, an article in Nature Conservation
News warned: “Highway planners must of necessity carry
on their work with great secrecy because of the inevitahle
opposition of some land owners. . . . Therefore they follow
a policy of having the route firmly established by the time
plans become publicly known. Thus, the most practical way
to safeguard natural areas that may be threatened by high-
way construction is to convince the highway planners of
their value early in the game.”

State highway plans, in order to qualify for federal aid,
must follow the most direct and economical route east to
west, north to south. And it is less bother, though not less
costly as a rule, to traverse the open Spaces and to go through
a town instead of around it. At this moment in Bergen
County, New Jersey, for example, three huge freeways arc
bookcd to cut through the county’s ranch-type homes,'thus
affecting some hundreds of families. According to a recent
article‘, this decision was made by one man, New Jersey’s
highway commissioner, Dwight R.G. Palmer, who says, for
the benefit of anyone who objects, “The federal govcrnment
is picking up the check for dinner. We just pay the tip.”

The article goes on, “And because the government will

“ “Turnpikes: Where Are They Taking Us?” by William G. Wing in
Today's Living, Sunday magazine of the New York Herald Tribune,
April 7, 1957.

202

pick up the check, the route has to meet its standard of good
engineering practices. It won’t approve unnecessary curves
or steep grades. . . .”

Actually, planning for a highway route through a com-
munity should be the result of the cooperative planning of,
or the cooperative decision of, the highway officials and the
local governing authorities—including the park and rec-
reation departments whenever park and recreation lands are

' affected. Recreation and park commissioners should take

definite steps toward effectng this cooperation, and should
start immediately by acquainting themselves with any real
or implied threats to existing local park lands. C.C. Curtiss,
commissioner of public roads of the Federal Bureau of
Roads, in a letter to the National Recreation Association,
writes, “A wise, long-term policy is essential if the many
problems arising from proposed highway locations in or
adjacent to park areas are to be solved. Such policy
calls for cooperation, in each locality, between state and
federal highway organizations, municipal and county gov-
ernments, and park administrators, with associations like
your own. Public support is needed for comprehensive re-
gional plans that coordinate development of recreation and
transport facilities.” [Italics are ours.]

Mr. Curtiss goes on to say that the bureau has encouraged
state highway departments toward systematic use of aerial
photographs and photogrammetric contour maps in com-
paring alternate routes and selecting the most advantageous
location. Such methods provide for careful examination of
park and recreation land in advance of highway location.

He states, “Parks and recreation organizations can be of
assistance to state highway officials and other groups in
combined efforts toward wise and comprehensive land-use
planning policies in each region, in accordance with sub-
section (c) of Section 116 of the Federal-Aid Highway Act
of 1956: ‘Dcclaration of Policy with Respect to Federal-Aid
Highway Program.’ This reads as follows:

“ ‘Public Hearings. Any state highway department which
sulinzits plans for a federal-aid highway pro jcct involving the
bypassing of, or going through, any city, town or village,
cither incorporatcrl or unincorporatcd, shall ccrtify to the
Commissioner of Public Roads that it has had public hear-
ings, or has agorded the opportunity for such hearings, and
has considered thc economic c§ccts of such a location. . . .'

“We would emphasize the many advantages to be gained
by confcrences betwecn interested parties whenever possible
well in advance of public hearings. . . .”

Public hearings, as provided in the legislation, afford park
and recreation officials an Opportunity to point out that
othcr than economic egects are also important. and should be
considcred. The local citizcnry, thereforc, must bc alerted
to the local situation. its stake in this planning and the
importance of prompt action.

Among Affected Park Lands

This state of affairs may seem fantastic; but if you find it
hard to bclieve you can check in a thousand placcs. For ex-
ample, ask the Cincinnati Recreation Commission about Deer
Creek Commons, the city’s largest softball and baseball in-
stallation, which has been scheduled for elimination by the

RECREATION

Northeast Expressway construction. Ask the Detroit Park
Commission about its experience! with the Michigan Turn-
pike Authority; Newark, New Jersey, about the highway re-
quest for the lower end of Branch Brook Park; or the Port-
land, Oregon, Bureau of Parks and Public Recreation about
the encroachment of highways upon park and recreation
properties in that city.

Harry Buckley, superintendent of parks in Portland, states
that, as a result of the new federal-aid highway program,
a proposed twenty-year plan places highways in twenty-one
of Portland’s parks. Some of these, where the alignment
traverses large park areas, do no particular damage, he says;
but he adds, “The greatest loss to parks will be in the
neighborhoods where an entire park will be taken or reduced
in size as to render it impotent to serve its intended purpose.
This would occur in sixteen of Portland’s areas. . . .

“The representatives of the right-of-way division of the

“The Griffith Park situation is unique in the fact that the
larger portion of the park was accepted by the city by grant
deed from Griflith J. Griffith in the late ’90’s, with a provision
in the deed that the land must forever be held inviolate as a
park, and if otherwise used title thereto would revert to the
donor or his heirs. A representative of the estate has brought

suit in the Superior Court of California to repossess the park
by reason of its diversion to other than park purposes. . . . It
is expected that this will become one of the memorable suits
in respect to taking of park lands for state highways, and in
respect to the inviolability of park lands with reversionary
clauses contained in their deedS.—GEORGE HJELTE.

 

state highway commission say that they cannot pay more for
park land than for vacant land. No other values are recog-
nized. They hold that they cannot acquire alternate land to
exchange because they can only purchase what is needed for
highway.”

He feels that our biggest job throughout the country is
to “do a selling job to the residents in our communities to
protest the conversion of park properties without alternative
facilities being provided in the same neighborhood.”

Another case in point, is the struggle over Griffith Park
in Los Angeles. George Hjelte, general manager of the de-
partment of recreation and parks, reports, as of April 10,
1957, that the construction of a vast link of the state freeway
system through Grifiith Park is proceeding apace, notwith-
standing the continued disapproval of the Los Angeles Board
of Recreation and Park Commissioners. Determination of
this route was made by the state highway commission in the
face of continued opposition, under the authority granted by
the legislature.

“Decisions of the state highway commission as to the
location of state freeway routes are not subject to appeal
to any other state body,” writes Mr. Hjelte. “This project—
with another which is planned by the state to follow the two
known as Golden State Freeway and a portion of the Ventura

Freeway—will remove from Grifiith Park approximately two
hundred and six acres of usable park land, much of which
has heretofore been laid out in golf fairways, miniature
train, tennis courts, picnic grounds, baseball fields, archery
range, and so on.”

J UNET 1957

It was the contention of the Los Angeles Board of Rec-
reation and Park Commissioners that an alternate route
existed adjacent to the park where undeveloped open land
was available at market prices, and where a minimum of
improvements would have been required. “The alternate
route was never studied in detail by the state highway
commission,” Mr. Hjelte says, “possibly in the belief that the
route through the park would prove less costly. Since these
determinations were made, however, policy has developed
to the point where any right of way taken from park lands
must be compensated for at market prices. Market price in
the instance of Grifiith Park land, while considerable, will
not be sufiicient to purchase alternate land in the vicinity of
the park, preferably contiguous thereto, at anywhere near

the same price. Contiguous open land is now priced at
$35,000 per acre.”

Wilmington, Delaware, is in line to lose fifty-one acres,
including ten tennis courts, to an express highway which
is being designed “to miss major buildings and private
homes by passing through park property.” The area
that would be left after this deduction would be a bare 260
acres in city parks while, according to National Recreation
Association standards, there should be 1,100 acres within
the city limits for normal park purposes.

Maurice duPont Lee, president of the Wilmington Board
of Park Commissioners, stated late in February, 1957, “The
department of parks has had no word from anyone asking
for its thoughts in the matter, although it is the department
of the city government responsible for the property under
consideration. . . . It is my understanding that the proposed
location is selected purely for economic reasons, but I would
like to point out that there are more important things in this
life than the almighty dollar.”

Dedham, Massachusetts, reports a like loss of public
forest; Greenwich, Connecticut, lost some of its Bruce Park
to the New York Thruway. In Montgomery County, Mary-
land, an eXpressway is cutting through one side of a golf
course. In Lincoln, Nebraska, a four-lane highway is going
through one of the main public parks. A proposal in New
York City to route through trafiic via Washington Square
Park, at the start of Fifth Avenue, has aroused acute con-
troversy in that city.

A further indication of the seriousness of the land problem
was a report in The New York Times last November that of
the fifteen private golf courses in the Borough of Queens in
1936 only three remain. The others, with a total fifteen hun-
(lred acres of open space, have gone into housing develop-
ments, apartments, university buildings and airport run-
ways. So it goes in hundreds of instances around the
country. The land grab as applied to local building is
equally grave. (See also “The Land Grab for Building Pur-
poses,” page 204.)

Experience indicates that the best way to st0p encroach-
ment on recreation and park lands is through an informed
public. Recreation officials might well consider using Na-
tional Recreation Month, during June 1957, as an occasion
for making the community generally recreation land-con-
scious. Specific land grabs call for immediate action. I

203

What new structures will be
constructed 011 your parks?
A shopping center? Housing?
Do you want to see this—

PUBLIC OPEN space devoted to recrea-
tion use has become widely recog-
nized as an increasingly valuable com-
munity asset. Yet today it is constantly
being threatened, as has been shown
in preceding articles. In addition to the
highway grab, however, private inter-
ests covetously seek to acquire it as
cheap building sites, or public authori-
ties see that taxpayers’ dollars will be
“saved” if park land is used for other
facilities.

The opportunity to collect needed
dollars from the sale of park land or to
cut the cost of a new structure by put-
ting it on park property has proved too
tempting for many tax-conscious city
governments. Consequently, across the
nation, public recreation areas are being
disposed of, or allocated to other uses,
to an unprecedented degree.

Park and recreation authorities need
to be alerted to the gravity of this situa-
tion! In some cities where parks have
been “lost,” the authorities were un-
aware of the transactions until they
were consummated. With the mounting
demand for the decreasing amount of
open space, especially in and around
the large cities, pressure upon local gov-
ernments to dispose of it for other public
purposes is bound to grow in the years
ahead. Complacency on the part of park
and recreation authorities will be in-
excusable and fatal; none oftheir areas
are automatically immune from attack.

Public Parks Imperiled

Nearly ten years ago Tom Wallace.
long an outstanding leader in the move-
ment for state parks, stated: “Every
park of every classification, every
national park, every state park, every

MR. BUTLER is head of the NRA Re-

search Department.

204-

The Land Grab for

municipal park, which has any value, is
imperiled. That is due to the public’s
frequent failure to realize that park
lands well chosen increase in value as
surely as population grows. Whenever
a park is treated as land which may be,
without great loss, or with advantage to
the public, surrendered for other use,
the public suffers in this generation a
loss which will be a far greater loss to
future generations.”

More recently the problem has been
stated in an editorial in the Christian
Science Monitor: “For a community to
acquire parks and public forests after it
has grown up is no easy task. But to
hold such green open spaces intact after
they are won is almost as great a chal-
lenge.”

Many of our cities acquired a large
part of their park acreage dUring the
early decades of this century, when open
land was abundant, and people had little
leisure and recreation was not generally
considered of major importance. Yet
our fathers had the foresight and vision
to set aside lands for the benefit of
future generations. Urban conditions
today—limited open space, much lei-
sure and great demands for recreation
—Inake the reservation of lands for
public recreation use more essential
than ever before. But not only are cities
failing to acquire recreation space as
fast as population', but they are letting
slip through their hands the precious

 

land our fathers acquired.

The slogan “ll Can Happen Here” ap-
plies to every community that is not
alert to the situation. For, as the Buf-
falo and Erie County Planning Com-
mission points out. “Encroachment on
public park acreage by local govern-
ments for non-recreational uses is a
national trend which could well fore-
shadow the ultimate disappearance of
open space from the urban pattern.
This is a dangerous and short-sighted
practice . . . .

“Most (Buffalo

eluded) desperately need all the open

communities in-
space they now have. Yet. local govern-
ments keep whittling away at public
lands . . . . All across the country. parks
are being turned into building sites for

hospitals. libraries, schools. . ."H

Rationalizations for
Encroaclnm‘nts

Economy and dollar savings to the

taxpayers are the common excuses

given for the grabbing of park lands for
other purposes. Among the arguments
used by proponents of such measures
are:

l. “The public already owns this
land: it’s in the interest of economy to
use it.”

"h

’ See “Park Acreage Io Population." page
228.

” The Planner. March. 1955. published by
the Buffalo and Erie County (New York)
Planning Association.

RECREATION

 

\!

|.

I

3i
I
1|
||

Building

HI“

 

What they really mean is that here is
land which has not been built upon or
expensiver developed. The truth is

that this is about the most expensive
land that could be used. It is the land
that generation after generation of chil-
dren, teen-agers and adults of all ages
will need for active physical recreation
and for the relaxation and enjoyment
that only outdoor activity can provide.

To take away from our small stock-
pile of public lands for parks because
there appears to be a pressing need is
like borrowing from a child’s college

fund.

and we have plenty already.” Actually,
few cities have ample park properties or
a well-balanced system of areas of dif-
ferent types and sizes. Every successful
attempt to nibble on park properties en-
courages others.

3. “We can’t afford to keep so much

tax exempt property off the tax rolls.” .

This argument is used when pro-
ponents seek to divert public park
property to private use. They point to
exempt real estate to show that the tax-
able land is decreasing, and that the
selling of public parks is a step toward
reversing this process.

The truth of the matter is that park
lands are an important reason why sur-
rounding property values increase, as
repeated studies have shown. Withhold-
ing some lands from private develop-

JUNE 1957

Purpose

 

2. “It is only a little bit of park land .

, I  1|?   " ' —Or this? Should we fight

 

ment actually increases the value of the
whole area.

4. “This is the only available land
for the purpose.”

What they mean is that the use of
park land represents the line of least
resistance and that it would involve less
work and eXpense than the acquiring of
other lands for the project. For this
reason, the open spaces of parks draw,
like a magnet, every interest seeking ad-
ditional space.

It Did Happen There

The Variety of non-conforming uses

to which parks have been put and the
various agencies to which park lands
have been transferred are illustrated by
the following examples—which also in-
dicate that the problem is widespread:
Anniston, Alabama. The local housing
authority planned housing projects on
two city-owned recreation properties,
both “ideally located in areas of great
need.” One project was approved by the
federal government before the city park
and recreation board knew about it and
could take steps to stop it. A protest was
then lodged with the mayor at whose
recommendation the city council re-
fused to release land for the second
project.
Redwood City, California. Five acres
of its limited parks were given to the
county for a justice hall and to the
school department for a new school.

to retain our open spaces?
What plans are now in the
making for your community?

George D. Butler

Murfreesboro, Tennessee. Its only pub-
lic recreation land, a small playfield,
was sold for the use of incoming in-
dustry and was not replaced.

Toledo, Ohio. A portion of one park
was given to a private industry for park-
ing of employee cars. The YMCA was
sold one acre of land and given a lease
on another acre for erection of a branch
building. A total of twenty-five acres of
a third park has been utilized for sewage
disposal, a naval armory, U.S. Coast
Guard buildings, police pistol range,
and private yacht club.

Andalusia, Alabama. The entire area of
its beautiful park square in the center
of town was black topped and converted
into a parking lot. In spite of opposi-
tion of the people, prcssure by business
men prevailed. -
New Rochelle, New York. An eighteen-
acre parcel of vacant city-owned land,
the last sizeable tract ear-marked for
recreation, was sold at public auction by
the consent of the council, without con-
sulting the planning board.

Detroit, Michigan. Nine acres in Gen-
eral Patton Park was taken for cottage-
type detention shelter for young people.
Edgewood, Pennsylvania. Four acres of
its one eight-acre park were taken for
a new road.

New Haven, Connecticut. The mayor
and board of education, which sold its
three high schools to Yale University,
requested the park board to permit the
building of two new schools on park
property. Although it refused, the park
board offered two alternate park prop-
erties for the purpose—one of them a
fourteen-acre tract.

Waulresha, Wisconsin. City officials gave
the federal government more than two
acres of a six-acre park for a post office,
with no compensation.

Kansas City, Kansas. Erected fire sta-

205

tions in several of the city’s parks.

Other areas have been used for shop-
ping centers, industrial sites, high
school stadia, libraries, chamber of
commerce headquarters, commercial
enterprises, woman’s club houses, Scout
buildings. The greatest loss has perhaps
resulted from encroachments in the
form of roads and highways.

In spite of many defeats, park au-
thorities have often successfully resisted
attempts to have their properties di-
verted to other uses.

Central Park in New York City has

been threatened over the years by more
pr0posals than any other park but has
been strongly defended by the park
association, and in many cases by the
city officials. It is said that if all the re-
quests for exceptions in the use of the
park had been allowed, it would have
buildings three layers deep.

The Cook County Forest Preserve
Commissioners control more than
40,000 acres that afford recreation for
the people of Chicago and the surround-

Repeated attempts have
been made to secure the ownership or

ing region.

control of portions of this extensive pre-
serve for other facilities. Had these re-
quests been granted, thousands of acres
would have been lost to the forest pre-
serve. Resistance to the many demands
has been made possible through , the
adoption of sound policies by the Forest
Preserve Commissioners. Furthermore,
all such proposals have been referred
for study and recommended action to a
citizen advisory committee. I

What You Can Do About Encroachment

HERE are a number of suggested ways

by which park and recreation au-
thorities can help to discourage success-
fully attempts to grab park lands.

1. Prepare, with the aid of competent
planners, an over-all long range plan for
the acquisition and improvement of rec-
reation areas; publicize the plan widely
and coordinate the program of land ac-
quisition with that of the school, hous-
ing and planning officials. Your plan
and program will therefore be known by
the city authorities and will have the
understanding support of the related
agencies.

2. Develop attractively and utilize
effectively every property under your
control, insofar as funds for doing so
are available. The more highly an area
is regarded and the more widely it is
used, the greater will be citizen oppo-
sition to its disposal or diversion to
other uses.

3. Have a sound plan for the design
and use of every undeveloPed or par-
tially developed area. The public can-
not be exPected to oppose the transfer
to other uses of park properties that for
years have not been developed or used
for recreation. However, preparation of
an attractive sketch or use-plan, after
consultation with and approval by the
people of the neighborhood or, com-
munity the area is to serve, helps arouse
public interest in the area, enlists sup-
port for its development and creates
sentiment against proposed encroach-
ments. Publicize your plan, keep it in
the public eye through every mcans at
your diSposal.

4. Know the status of the park and
recreation lands under your control by
being familiar with the conditions and

206

procedures under which each area was
acquired; for example, if lands were
given the city, know what conditions
were attached to the_ gift. If certain
properties were purchased, learn wheth-
er they were paid for by funds voted by
public referendum specifically for park
purposes or by general city funds.

5. Be familiar with state legislation
relating to the status of park lands and
conditions under which they may be dis-
posed of or diverted to other use. Legis-
lation, as well as court decisions in cases
involving the disposal or non-conform-
ing uses of park lands, may be effective
means of combating encroachments.

6. Know the respective legal powers,
duties and responsibilities of the local
governing authorities, park or recrea-
tion departments, planning agency or
others, as related to thc acquisition,
management and disposal of park prop-
erty. Many parks have been sold by
action of city authorities who usurped
or ignored powers legally assigned to
another agency.

7. Establish and
working relationship with the city au-
thorities, and especially with the plan-
ning department. This enables you to
learn promptly of any pr0posals in-
volving the disposal or non-conforming
use of your arcas. If possible, secure
agreement that no city properties will be
disposed of without consulting your de-
partmcnt. Decisions on many such pro-
posals have been reached before recrea-
tion or park authorities knew of them.

8. Marshall citizen opposition to
unjustifiable encroachment. Parent
groups, civic organizations, recreation

maintain close

councils and other interested groups
may be urged to protest at city hall;

petitions may be circulated in the
neighborhood or community most af-
fected by the proposal. In one city
where more than half of a playground
was sold to a veterans’ organization for
a center, with no attendant publicity, a
later attempt to sell another playground
was blocked when the neighbors learned
of the proposal and submitted petitions
forbidding the sale.

9. Enlist the cooperation of the press
in opposing the pr0posal. More than
one project which would have curtailed
the usefulness of New York City’s Cen-
tral Park was killed through the vigor-
ous opposition of the press, even though
there was, in some cases, official support.

10. Resort to court action only as a
last resort. lf transfer or disposal of
park land is clearly contrary to public
interest or violates any legal procedure,
court action is justified in an attempt to
prevent it. Augusta, Georgia, affords an
example of the organization of a Com-
mittee to Preserve Augusta’s Parkwaysu
and Playgrounds which filed a courtl
injunction to restrain the city from sell-

  
 
   
 
    
  
  

ing a park for commercial use.

In commenting upon the attempt in a
southern city to transform an altractiv
bayfront park into a parking lot a new:
paper wriler asks, “\Vhat will a city giv
in exchange for its soul?”

Recreation and park leaders toda
have an Opportunity to carn the grati
tude of future generations by workin
incessantly to preserve and expand the
public open spaces which others ac-
quired for our cnjoyment and use. For
as Cencral David Sarnoff has said, “No
labor but leisure will bc the great prob
10m in the decades ahead.” I

RECREA'noi

7010.90; I'M”

with SAFETY

HOBBY HORSE SWING

Excitement—adventure—fun and exercise.
They're all combined in this heavy duty
Burke-Built Hobby Horse Swing . . . with
complete safety. Three point suspension
keeps seat level at all times. No pushing

necessary—even a tot can create his own
momentum.

KIDDIE GLIDER

A companion piece to the Hobby Horse
Swing. Two can find adventUre together
in Burke's Heavy Duty Kiddie Glider and
they can’t bang their heads, pinch their
legs, or swing too high.

Burke builds a complete line of swings,
slides, and playground equipment for
schools, haspitals, institutions, cities and
recreation areas, including several new
and completely tested revolutionary units
for playgrounds everywhere.

For complete information write Dept. A

mkwa

FOND DU lAC, WISCONSIN
NEW BRUNSWICK, NEW JERSEY

 

  

For Concrete Playing Surfaces

and Highly Polished
Floors . . .

SUPERIOR

' “LIFETIME”
‘° SHUFFLEB 0A RD

\E'PUSHER

Superior’s new non-friction
shuffleboard pusher has roll-
ing fibre wheels—a real
floating head! Permits the
player to approach from
any angle without lifting
disc. Fibre wheels
guaranteed

not to wear

out. Each set of 4 pushers
packed with 8 unbreak-
able plastic discs in carton
with instruction book. Write for
literature today.

           
 
  

   
     
    
      
     
          
       
       
          

      
     
       

      
     
     
 
  
   
 
 
 
 

u
PINDUSTRIES CORP.
565 Barry Street ° New York 59. N. Y.

Pool and Table Tennis Tables
Poker Tables ° Bumper Pool
Paddle Tennis Paddles

I

 
  

.JIV-
.. . c

  

(

' -\\.

 i  i (2 mm 
BLOCK PRINTING

hournno

TOOLS 1

-*£‘ iii 55 sea"

.4“
\ -- "a. .
3110;“.5, shun; mus-urn. ..
n
A .
p
1 -

   

    

Most popular group craft activity...
and X-acta tools are preferred be-
cause they are the sharpest, most
accurate and LOWEST IN COST!
Patented, all-metal handle with non-
slip, vise-grip chuck. Complete line
of X-acto Lino Tools and Brayers—
individually and in sets.

 
  
 
    
    
 

A New, Safe Jig Saw That
Outperforms Higher-Priced Models

Illustrated Buying
Guide for X-acta

Knives, Tools and H an-
dicra! ts ........................25¢

 
 

X-ACTO, INC.

48-99 Van Dam Street
Long Island City I, N. Y.

 

DREMEL Mata-Jig Saw

 

JUNE 1957

  

5 Round tripflight on 007 by United Airlines

(ho/est led/65'

0 Must be under 14 years of age and attend public school
or reoreation center

I Mu5t be the winner of local Happy Taw tournament

I Must send one Happy Taw card with full name and address
—plus name and address of school or recreatlonal cen-

ter, and name of Instructor or teacher

For complete details write to:
TOURNAMENT DEPARTMENT, HOPPY TAW CORPORATION

927 South State Street, Salt lake City, Utah

      
 
 
   
  
 

 
 

  

Not a toy, but a professional
power saw priced within anyone's
budget. Performs to the exacting

needs of any craftsman, yet can
be mastered by an eight-year-old.
It's portable; rubber-suction feet
let you set up shop anywhere.
Unique blade guard protects fin-
gers—makes saw super-safe. The
only iig saw in its price class that's
powered by a real rotary motor

folder TODAY!

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

. . . not a vibrator. With Dremel's
exclusive Rocker Action principle
the blade stays taut — rarely
breaks. Permits using a very thin
blade for sharper turns, more ac-
curacy. Cuts I 1%" wood, plastics,
leather, light metals with ease.
Widely accepted by handicraft di-
rectors everywhere. For hours of
wood-working fun, for young and
old, buy a Dremel Mata-Jig Saw.

WRITE FOR FREE CATALOG and craft proiect

DREMEI. MANUFACTURING CO, Dept. 867F, Racine, Wis.

20?

Guide map of Golden Gale Park

shows lhe proposed route of the eon-
erete and sleel inlerslale freeway—
Origiual surface rouling would have
actually biseeled and carved up park.

  

How Golden Gate Park

Was Saved

0-“

. “ i o a 0
T/us modern success story,” of a fight to save fend for recreation, ts an extremef y nu portant
one—mot only to San Francisco but to every park-conscious community in the country.

To SAN FRANCISCO its beloved Golden Gate Park is a

sacred grove, and anyone who threatens its 1,013 acres
is an enemy. Thereforc the city declared war on a freeway
which would have crcatcd a concrete and steel barricade
around one of the park’s loveliest, most popular scctions.

The battlc was actually started two ycars ago when Max
C. Funke, general managcr of the recreation and park de-
partment, told thc recrcation and park commission he felt
the time had come to give voice to public indignation against
attempts to encroach on the park with superhighways.

“Freeway construction threatens to dcstroy our city’s in-
herent beauty and charm, for which it has become famous,”
he said. “We are faced with thc problem of preserving for
the use of all people our vast and treasured network of parks
and playgrounds. . . .

“We all realizc that a great city like ours must keep up
with progress and that progress means freeways. But the
people of San Francisco do not subscribe to any theory that
progress must inevitably result in permanent scars.”

A big six~foot-four, forty-five-year-old former newspapcr-
man, with a keen sense of public relations, F unke urged the
commission to intensify its campaign aimed at eliminating
from the city’s master plan of traflicways any reference to
freeway routing which would require any part of the surface

208

of Golden Catc Park or its panhandle.

The commission promptly and enthusiastically approved
the proposal and Commissioner Francis J. Herz was ap-
pointcd to lcad the anti-freeway campaign with Funkc and
his staff. Thc commission, in the words of Mr. Herz, “real-
ized that this area, more than threc miles in length. created
a natural barricr to thc movement of north and south traflic
through the city, and, therefore, pointed out that it would
not opposc tunneling under the park but would vigorously
oppose any open-cut, surface or elevated construction.”

The committee composed of llerz, Funke and others of thc
recreation-park staff immediately and systematically began
to visit civic, parent-teacher, and neighborhood improvc-
mcnt clubs, to tell of the danger thrcatcning the park. The
story was told over and'over to groups ranging in sizc from
half a dozen persons to sevcral hundred. And each telling
was illustrated by panels showing the park as it is today and
how it might look if overhead freeways werc permitted.

Stress was laid by the speakers on the fact that one major
playground, Fathcr Crowlcy, had already hecn complctcly
destroyed by frccway construction, and that largc portions
of othcr playgrounds throughout San Francisco had been
irretrievahly lost to lllC rapidly cxpanding freeway system.

City-wide reaction was immediate and positive. Indeed,

  
     

Recnmnos l

so greatly did this campaign “click” with the people of San
Francisco that Herz, Funke and their little group were
quickly augmented by _a large number of volunteer speakers
who tried to reach every segment of the city’s population.
Scores of organizations passed freeway-lambasting, “Save
Golden Gate Park” resolutions. These and hundreds of let-
ters from individuals flooded the mayor’s office, the board of
supervisors and the newspapers, resulting in coverage that,
at times, received Page One position, as well as editorial sup-

THIS WAS FATHER CROWLEY PLAYGROUND

'THIS WAS HOME PLATE

  

THE FIELD HOUSE WAS HERE

THIS WAS

MCKINLEY SQUAR'

 

DO YU

    
 

Campaign to reroute freeway
utilized especially prepared
picture panels which were used
very effectively in talks alert-
ing local citizens to imminent
danger threatening to disfig-
urc and dismemher a park it
had taken 75 years to deveIOp.

port. The county grand jury endorsed the campaign.

The swell of public opinion supporting the recreation and
park commission’s anti-freeway position became so great
that it clearly constituted a mandate from the people. Con-
sequently, on May 19, 1955, the planning commission ac-
ceded and the portion of freeway going through Golden
Gate Park was deleted from the master plan.

But the park defenders couldn’t afford to rest on their
laurels. The California State Highway Department has
tremendous autonomy, and its powers to locate freeways
wherever they felt best from a completely functional en-
gineering point of view are almost unlimited. Up to this
time the state highway engineers had rarely consulted the
recreation and park department of the city in determining
preliminary routing of its freeway network.

Now, with the strength of aroused public opinion and with
the planning commission’s action having been taken, the
state agreed to restudy the freeway situation as it affected
Golden Gate Park. In this restudying, it asked the assistance
of a new committee (which included the city’s director of
public works, director of planning, fire and police chiefs,
manager of the municipal railway, and the general manager
of the recreation and park department) to consider possible

JUNE 1957

effects on the city as the freeway program was developed.

The effectiveness of this committee was vividly demon-
strated when it was learned that another freeway—the South-
ern Freeway Extension in San Francisco—would bisect a
brand new playground just completed by the recreation and
park department at a cost of $350,000. On the map the imv
pact of this situation on a costly and needed recreation facil-
ity was not apparent, but the situation came to light under
the careful scrutiny of the committee. The result was that
the state engineers, in a new-found spirit of c00peration, re-
vised their plans so that the freeway could bypass the play-
ground without harm.

Of even greater importance was the convincing of the
state highway district engineer that the people of San Fran-
cisco would never stand by while Golden Gate Park was
criss-crossed with overhead or open-cut freeways. The state
revised its plans and the highway district is now surveying
the park with a view to placing all freeway crossings under-
ground. Then, if and when construction is completed, the
surface will be restored to public recreation and park use.

In this campaign the recreation and park department went

WNT

A loud outcry throughout the
city Opposed any Open cuts,
surf ace or elevated construction
within the park’s confines. It
was felt that “progress” need
not inevitably leave permanent
scars in its wake, ruining the
city’s areas of natural beauty.

lwouu) You RATHER HAVE A PICNIC

into action before it was too late. Other cities in the state had
suffered the disappointment of discovering that plans for
freeways and acquisition of property for them had progress-
ed too far to be halted when the effect of the freeway on
playgrounds and parks was discovered. Its constant conten-
tion has been that freeways can—and must—be so located
and constructed as not to destroy the natural beauty and the
leisure-time facilities of the city.

Tunnels are now shown on the state highway department’s
drawing boards and San Franciscoans intend to see that
they remain that way. I

209

DRAG §iRIP§ VS

N ORDER to make the highways safe
for the ordinary motorist, hot-rod
racing has been taken off the road and
placed on a drag strip, under super-
vision! The drag strip is a special piece
of ground set aside for this purpose. It
may be anything from an old airport
runway, or any flat, smooth strip of
land, to an especially built racing strip.
, A hot rodder, according to the New
York Times, is a “young man between
sixteen and sixty who is a sincere auto-
motive enthusiast.” He alters his car,
affectionately known as a “beast,” to
increase its speed, performance and
safety. National Hot Rod Association 1
members hold safety as of a Number
One importance, performance second.

Drag racing is the competitive part of
hot rodding and consists of off-highway
racing in souped-up cars which often
reach speeds of well over one hundred
miles per hour. Such racing, which at
one time was a matter of resentment and
opposition on the part of the populace,
is now an organized activity. It grew
among speed-crazy teen-agers after the
war; but with supervision has gradually
become a recognized sport. In many
instances, it has won the support of the
police.

A recent article in the Kansas City,
Missouri, Times stated, “Some hot rod-
ders give a bad reputation to the boys
indulging in that sport; but the or-
ganized hot rodders have constructive
aims, and limit their fast driving to the
drag strip.” And it goes on to tell the
story of a woman who found herself
stranded with a flat tire on a busy
expressway. A teen-ager in a hot rod
pulled up and offered aid. He changed

1 5959 Hollywood Boulevard, Los Angeles 28.

210

PRO . .

the tire quickly, but refused the five-
dollar bill which the woman offered.

“I can’t accept that,” he said. “It’s
against the rules.” When she inquired
what rules, be answered: “The hot-rod
club. I had to stop to help—that’s part
of the rules, too.”

Many local organizations, of which
the recreation department is often one,
are now either singly or collectively
sponsoring hot-rod clubs, and the oper-
ation of drag strips. Parental consent
is always required for participation.
Among these communities are: Rock-
land, Maine; Pomona and \Vhitticr,
California; Concord, New Hampshire;
Columbia, Missouri; Glen Cove, New
York; Sioux Falls, South Dakota;
Grand Rapids, Michigan; and others.

In Wilmington, Delaware, the local
recreation agency, Recreation and Pro-
motion Service, lnc., originally ap-
pointed a hot-rod committee. This cvcn-
tually organized Wilmington Automo-
tive Activities for all local automobile
fans. George Sargisson, RPS executive
director, writes, “It seems to me that it
is up to recreation personnel to help
carry the ball and give leadership in
this comparatively new field of youth
and young-adult interest.”

The organization now has a club-
house which has been loaned to the
group. Membership is open to the week-
end pleasure driver as well as to the
lad with the stripped down Model A.
Among activities and events, limited
only by the interests of members, are

Showng two sides of a current,|
controversial activity. Shall we
sponsor high-speed competition?

talks by people well known in the auto-
motive industry and famed racing
drivers, automobile shows, promotion
of courtesy, safety, aid to motorists,
skill driving contests, use of drag strip
and racing. Members agree to a mem-
bership code, and their certificate of in-
corporation, as set forth in the Member-
ship Manual, reads in part:

The objectives and activities to be transact-
ed, promoted, and carried on by Wilmington
Automotive Activities, Inc., are primarily to
further and inculcate in and among the youth
and other persons of all communities and
places where the activities of this corporation
shall be conducted, the principles of safety,
courtesy and observance of law in the driving...
operation and maintenance of motor vehicles
of all kinds; by training, precept and educa-
tion, to instill in drivers and prospective.
drivers of motor vehicles and others, a proper
sense of responsibility to other persons using
the public highways and to the public at large,
together with a knowledge of and proficiency
in the maintenance, equipment and testing of
all kinds of motor vehicles in the interest of
safe and efficient operation and the proper
control thereof.

The hot rods themselves are, in many
instances, wondrous to behold—very
often consisting of a patched together
body on a high-powered engine and ad-
ditional carburetors. Speed matters, but
so does safety, as any hot rodder will
tell you.

John Weitz, international sports-car
racing driver, says in a recent article,“
“Safe driving and skilled driving are
inseparable.” If you learn one, the
other follows—and you can’t win a race
without skill.

2“It Matters That You Finish.” by Susan
Bennett Holmes, Woman's Day. May 1957.

RECREATIOI

m0 DRAG stnlps

Some folks think that racing auto-

mobiles at top speed is NOT pub-
lic recreation!

UESTIONS regarding the use of
Q drag strips for high-speed
racing are arising in an increasing num-
ber of quarters. Doubts about com-
bining the drag strip race with the idea
of promoting good driving habits and
safety are rearing their ugly heads.
Since when has automobile racing been
safe anyWay, and isn’t it usually neces-
sary to take chances to be the winner?

An article, “The Drag Racing Rage,”
in Life, April 29, 1957, offers an addi-
tional argument to the growing contro-
versy: “Safety groups and some police
officials feel that the glorification of
speed on the strips infects the teen-agers
with a fatal spirit of derring-do on tlfe
highways.” And it points up the fact
that “illegal” drag racing at night has
sprung up in some cities.

As skepticism began taking over, a
National Safety Council committee em-
barked on a nation-wide check of the
situation, which resulted in a recent
statement3 Opposing speed contests.
The council felt, “Public interest would
be better served if the energy and
enthusiasm now devoted to drag racing

were channelled into more constructive
activities.”

This has been done with success in‘

Minneapolis, with the Rod Buddies
Club which, according to an article in

The Optimist Magazine4 is “trying to
prove by good example that a hot rodder
is not always a ‘squirrel’ or a ‘screw-

3 See RECREATION, March 1957, page 72.
4 “Teen-Age Drivers,” January 1957.

JUNE 1957

CON'

driver.’ Translated from teen lingo, this
means that not all hot rodders are teen-
agers bent on speed at the risk of doing
harm to themselves and others on the
highways.”

Recently the members took seven cars
on a twenty-mile “safe driving safari”
to Remer, Minnesota. En route, the
boys relayed to a Minneapolis radio sta-
tion periodic reports of motorists’
driving violations which they spotted.
The boys have studied safety regula-
tions and safe driving practices.

A summary of the hot-rod survey

undertaken by the National Safety
Council reads in part:

Traffic officials and others submitted nearly
four hundred replies. Sixty per cent listed
existing clubs and seventy per cent contained
tabulatable information. The total report in-
dicated information on about two thousand
clubs in nearly two hundred cities. The
majority of the reports (sixty-seven per cent)
indicated a personal Opinion in favor of hot-
rod club activities except where they involve
competitive speed contests. They indicated
that hot-rod activities related to safety should
be encouraged unless they are expedient meas-
ures to gain public support for the actual goal
of obtaining a drag strip for Speed competition
events.

Drag strips were also condemned at
the annual conference of the Interna-

tional Association of Chiefs of Police
in Chicago last September. According
to the Kansas Government Iournal, the
association called on all law enforce-
ment agencies “to refrain from partici-
pating in the establishment and /or
operation of drag strips or other sim-
ilar activity for speed contests.”

 

“All clashes, of opinion on this sub-
ject, can be lessened, however, if drag
races are held under proper supervision
at a site that holds to a minimum the
chances for accident,” says the Ameri-
can Society of Planning Officials5 in
a thirty-one-page report, Hot Rods,
Car Clubs and Drag Strips.

Interesting, too, is the comment in an

editorial in a Reading, Pennsylvania
newspaper: “Whether or not there is
any sense at all in stepping up the ve-
locity of gas engines which, as they
come from the assembly line, already
are equipped to deliver more speed than
may legally be used on even Pennsyl-
vania’s modern turnpikes may be a
debatable question. Be that as it may,
however, we shall offer no objection to
“drag strips”-—-if those who want to
use them also pay for them.
5 “We bow to the principle of personal
freedom by conceding that if some folks
want to drive at dangerous speeds and
possibly endanger their own lives at
locations and under conditions which
do not place the safety of others in
jeopardy, that is their business. But
in our view, and we believe in the view
of a great majority of taxpayers, it
would be wrong to use a single cent of
public funds for that purpose.

“That condition appeals to us as being
reasonable because driving ‘souped-
up’ automobiles at top speed can scarce-
ly be called public recreation. In any
case, it is not the kind of recreation that
should be emulated by others in every-
day life. On the contrary, it sets an
example which, if followed on public
highways, would be a violation of
the law.” I

5 1313 East 60th Street, Chicago 37, Illinois.

911

 

TWO IMPORTANT trends in consolidating administrative
authorities for recreation and parks gathered momentum
in 1956. One of these is the increasing consideration being
given to the combining of city and county recreation depart-
ments or park departments—a result of the growing problem
of providing recreation services for “fringe areas.” These
sections, just outside city boundaries, increasingly plague
many urban communities.

Some of the localities presently consolidating city and
county efforts are Fort Lauderdale and Broward County,
Gainesville and Alachua County, Sarasota and Sarasota
County, Florida; Augusta and Richmond County, Georgia;
and Greenville and Greenville County, South Carolina.

The city recreation department of Dalhart, Texas, pro-
vides service to Hartley and Dallam counties through a rec-
reation council of nine members, three appointed by each
of the three government authorities.

In suburban sections around Detroit, Michigan, several
areas formerly incorporated as townships, with rapidly grow-
ing smaller communities within their borders, have reorgan-
ized, with the township now being incorporated as a total
city, thereby facilitating total coverage in planning facilities,
recreation services and financing. Marion Preccc, former
NRA Southern District representative, says, “It is reported
_that Warwick, Hampton and NeWport News, Virginia, will
consolidate into one municipality. In that event, the rec-
reation areas of the three incorporated towns would be com-
bined. This would be a boon to Nchort News, the one town
that provides recreation areas and facilities under full-
time year-round leadership and bears the financial burden
for this leadership which also serves Hampton and War-
wick.”

Out of a total of 134 different administering authorities
established during 1956, there were fourteen new county
and fifteen new district recreation and park authorities.

The other continuing trend is toward the combination of
local separate park and recreation departments. For ex-
ample, the park and recreation departments in Colorado
Springs, Colorado, were consolidated during 1956, with the
appointment of a director of parks and recreation and
changing the title of the former recreation director to assist-
ant director of parks and recreation. In Grand Forks, North

 

MR. REED is director of the National Recreation Association
Field Services.

212

Recreation Developments

in 1956

Based upon the annual reports of NRA district representatives.

Com piled by Charles E. Reed

Dakota, the director of recreation was appointed superin-
tendent of parks and recreation when the superintendent of
the former separate park department resigned. A similar
transition is occurring in Rapid City, South Dakota, where
the park superintendent has also resigned. Some other cities
and their effected consolidations during the year are: Bell-
wood, Marion and Murphysboro, lllinois, combined parks
and recreation; St. Louis Park, Minnesota. combined
schools, recreation and parks; Mercer, Wisconsin, combined
parks and recreation. These facts demonstrate the growing
stake in parks, on the part of recreation administrators, and
in recreation, on the part of park administrators.

Local Refercndnm Elections. Levy and bond issues ap-
proved during 1956 exceeded even the high levels of 1953
and 1954, after a less active year in 1955. One hundred and

ten successful bond issues were reported over the country.

Training of Local Leaders. The variety of training pro-
grams promoted and conducted by many of the state recre-
ation societies and associations, state recreation departments
or consultants, colleges and universities were more numerous
and productive of good results. These included institutes,
workshops and special sessions, many for training in activi-
ties skills. State and district conferences and the National
Recreation Congress regularly provide HIOI'C special training
sessions in which both paid and volunteer leaders partici-
pate. Everywhere interest in various types of leadership
training is more evident.

in addition to training in the skills of playground leader-
ship, indoor recreation center programs, music, arts and
crafts and drama, the need is emphasized for training of
administrators“ in administrative procedures, planning,
operation and maintenance and public relations. There is
more demand for training courses in nature education, day
camping, water sports and other aspects of outdoor living.

The National Recreation Association is still being urged
to continue its present leadership training services and to
add courses in nature education and other phases. A total
of approximately six thousand local recreation leaders, both
paid and volunteer, were trained by the Association’s spe-
cialists in social recreation, playground activities, drama and
creative recreation and arts and crafts. The Association also
initiated an internship training program for students with
graduate degrees in recreation, during the year. I

"See “Second National Institute for Recreation Executives," page 23-1.

RECREATION

 

 
 
 

A BEPORTER’S NOTEBOOK

 

NRA Board Elections
Former New York City Police Com-

missioner Francis W.H. Adams was
elected chairman of the Board of Di-
rectors of the National Recreation As-
sociation at the annual meeting of the
Board at Association headquarters in

New York, May 22. Mr. Adams, a long-
time member of the board, will fill the

vacancy created by the death of Otto T.
Mallery in December 1956.

Grant Titsworth of Noroton, Con-
necticut, an attorney, was elected first
vice-president; Miss Susan Lee of New
York City continues as second vice-
president and secretary of the board;
Mrs. William L. Van Alen of Edgemont,
Pennsylvania, becomes third vice-presi-
dent. Joseph Prendergast of New York
City was re-elected executive director
and secretary of the Association, and

Adrian M. Massie of Rye, New York,

was re-elected treasurer.

New board members are: James H.
Evans of Chicago, secretary, treasurer
and general counsel of the Reuben
H. Donnelley Corporation; Richard A.
Dougherty of New York City, public re-
lations counselor; and Edgar W. Smith
of Portland, Oregon, a previous presi-
dent of the Portland Chamber of Com-
merce, interested in serving youth, and

an NRA sponsor since 1949.

Mr. Adams, the new chairman, has
been active in the National Recreation
Association for many years. He has
also been appointed to the New York
City Board of Education by Mayor Rob-
ert Wagner, as recently as May 21,
1957. He is a partner in the law firm of
Satterlee, Warfield and Stephens, was

formerly United States attorney for the
Southern District of New York.

Miss Lee is known to the readers of
RECREATION as an officer of the board,
a contributor, and as the daughter of
beloved Joseph Lee, one of the founders

JUNE 1957

 

of the Association and of the play-

ground movement in America.

Parsons Memorial Gardens

   

- ‘ F-I'Pa. 4-0514“

Mrs. Howard A. Frame is shown at the
dedicalion of lhe Parsons Memorial
Gardens wilh Waldo J. Dahl (lefl),
presideul, Sealtle Board of Park Com-
missioners, aml Mayor Gordon Clinton.
Mrs. Frame, :1 Parsons, is on NBA Board.

Children of the late Mr. and Mrs.
Reginald H. Parsons donated to Seattle,
Washington, the family’s formal gar-
dens overlooking Puget Sound. These
will be a living memorial to their par-
ents who, among other local contribu-
tions, gave several hundred acres on
Hood Canal for a Boy Scout camp. Mr.
Parsons was an NBA sponsor for many
years; his son, George, is a present

sponsor; and one of his daughters, Mrs.
Howard A. Frame of Los Altos, Cali-

fornia, is an NRA Board member. She
and her sister, Mrs. John S. Day of Med-
ford, Oregon, made the presentation to
the mayor and the park board.

Milestones

Two park and recreation agencies
celebrating fiftieth anniversaries this
year are the Milwaukee, Wisconsin,
County Park Commission and the Fort
Wayne, Indiana, Park and Recreation
Department. Still going strong, Mil-
waukee is currently constructing a war
memorial building on Lincoln Memorial

Drive to house two art galleries and
other facilities—including headquarters
for its new children’s art program. An
ultra-modern zoo is also due to open
shortly. Fort Wayne boasts a new arti-
ficial ice rink. Two-thirds of the rink’s

$175,000 cost was provided by the Mac-
Millen foundation.

H

Honored

WALTER L. SCOTT, director of rec-
reation, in Long Beach, California, re-
cently received a fitting tribute to his
twenty-five years of recreation leader-
ship in the form of a scholarship fund
established in his name by the Long
Beach Recreation Association.

JOSEPH E. CURTIS, director of recrea-
tion in Oceanside, New York received
the annual community service award
presented by the local Veterans of For-
eign Wars post. The Oceanside recrea-
tion department and VFW co-sponsor
an increasing number of community
recreation activities.

Safety Afloat Campaign

The first state-wide effort for water
safety for everyone recently initiated by
the state of Georgia might well serve as
a pattern for other states (or even com-
munity recreation departments). Be-
cause of the high incident of deaths by
drowning throughout the nation last
year, Georgia’s governor issued a proc-
lamation designating May as Safety
Afloat Month and calling upon local or-
ganizations for cooperation. A printed
safety afloat campaign bulletin out-
lined safety rules, suggested activities,
Georgia laws and regulations pertain-
ing to the use of boats. For further in-
formation, write to John J. Komp, First

Aid and Water Safety Services, ARC,
1955 Monroe Drive, N.E., Atlanta 9.

Outlying Recreation Lands

Working on a research grant for
study of the need for outlying recrea-
tion lands, Cliff Hutchins, of the Uni-
versity' of Wisconsin, will make an effort
to determine the amount and kinds of
lands outside of population centersrthat
should be reserved for public recrea-
tion uses, as a part of sound planninU.
Conclusions will be based upon data
collected in the state of Wisconsin this
summer. He writes, “It is clearly a
technique-developing type of study-

213

which we liOpe will be followed by an
analysis of the available lands of scenic,
scientific, historic, and other recreation
interests within the state, and possibly a
further study of the economic effects of
reserving the requisite amounts of land
for recreation purposes. In all of this
our focus is on outlying park lands
away from the immediate environment
of the study.”

Global Baseball

Hundreds of non-pro baseball clubs
with players of unlimited ages will soon
be playing in the forty-eight state tour-
naments to determine the U. S. repre-
sentative in the third annual global base-
ball series in Detroit’s Brigg’s Stadium,

September 13 to 18.

After the forty-eight state titles are
decided, the twenty-third annual na-
tional tournament will follow in Wich-
ita, Kansas, starting August 16. The
cream of the state championship teams
will participate in this event, which an-
nually attracts about 100,000 fans. The
national winner will represent the
United States in the third global series
with an all-expense trip.

Sandlot and semi-pro baseball clubs
interested in participating in the tourna-
ment program should write to National

Baseball Congress, Wichita 1, Kansas.

National Folk Festival

The twenty-second annual National
Folk Festival will be held in Oklahoma
City, June 26-29, as a major part of
Oklahoma’s statewide semi-centennial
celebrations. The festival will be pre-
sented at a gala folk center within the
semi-centennial exposition grounds. Ok-
lahoma Indians, who have heen a part
of' nearly every folk festival program,

will play a vital and colorful role in this
year’s event.

Foresight to the Future

Three American cities, after examin-
ing the slums and other mistakes of
their past, have undertaken ambitious
reclamation and rehabilitation projects
and have made long-range plans for
future expansion. St. Louis, which has
passed a $1,500,000 bond issue for park
and street improvement on its Memorial
Plaza, is moving to check and correct
the Spreading squalor of the congested

214

residential areas in this 193-year-old
city. Philadelphia has had 276 years
for growth of its slums, so its present
reclamation project in South Philadel-
phia is on an extremely large scale. In
New Jersey, 165-year-old Paterson has
ad0pted a Master Reference Plan after
eight years of study, which calls for “en-
larged recreation areas to enhance the
residential character of the city.” It
also calls for master recreation areas,
athletic fields and separate playgrounds
for pre-sehool, grade school and high
school pupils; and it proposes several
new major parks and small neighbor-
hood parks.

“A Tree is Nice”

 

The 1956 Caldecott Medal, given an-
nually by the Children’s Library Asso-
ciation for “the most distinguished
American picture book for children,”
has been awarded Marc Simont for his
illustrations in A Tree is Nice by J auiee
May Udry (Harper 8: Brothers).

The annual Newhery Medal for “the

most distinguished contribution to the
American literature for children” for
1956 went to Virginia Sorensen for
Miracles on. Maple Hill (Harcourt,
Brace).

The John Burroughs Association
Medal for 1957 was given to Archic
Carr, author of Windward Road (Alfred
A. Knopf), a naturalist’s adventures
studying sea turtles and other water
creatures in the Caribbean.

About Face

When a Little Leaguer takes the field
is he, in effect, an employee of the spon-
soring organization? This question re-
ccntly perplexed the New York State
Workmen’s Compensation Board. One
of the board’s refcrees had ruled that a
fourteen-year-old boy was entitled to
four hundred dollars in injury benefits
from the mcrchants’ organization spon-

soring his Little League team. He had
lost several teeth when struck in the
mouth by a ball during a pre-game
warm-up. A review board later reversed
this decision.

The boy’s parents contended that, as
a member of a team sponsored by the
association, he was, in fact, an employee
of that association and therefore enti-
tled to the same workmen’s compensa-
tion as any other employee. The com-
pensation board referee agreed that,
although the youngster was not an
employee “in the ordinary sense,” he
nonetheless “furthered the purpose for
which the association was incorporated”
and that” the association “profited from
the advertising” carried on the team
uniforms (name of the association).

Later, a three-member panel reviewed
the case and ruled that the boy was not
an employee under the New York Work-
n1en’s Compensation Law and hence not
entitled to injury benefits. The board
chairman further pointed out that spon-
sors of teams in the Little League and
Babe Ruth Baseball League were re-
quired by their national headquarters to
provide adequate accident, health, hos-
pitalization and liability insurance.

011 the Plus Side

The past year has seen some notable
additions to our recreation acreage as
well as some victories in preserving
threatened recreation areas:

=f= An attempt by the Army to annex
10,700 acres of the Wichita Mountains
National Wildlife Refuge in Oklahoma
to Fort Sill was settled when the Army
accepted 3,600 acres across the southern
tip to be used as a buffer zone only.

=f= A projected national historical park
along the Maryland bank of the Po-
tomac, to include a considerable portion
of the picturesque old Chesapeake and
Ohio Canal, seems assured.

=l= In Florida, historic Sugar Mill Gar-
dens near Port Orange, formerly a pri-
vate tourist attraction, have been leased
to the Volusia County Commission as a
public park at $1.00 a year.

=+= A new 220-aere International Park
at Idlcwild Airport, New York City, is
nearing completion.

=j= In California, Los Angelcs County
is progressing firmly with its program
to develop a network of 700 miles of

RECREATION

horseback and hiking trails (over 250
miles are already completed). This is
a major segment of a projected 3,000-
mile state trail system being constructed
with a five-year $2,000,000 apprOpria-
tion. The trails will eventually take the
rider or hiker from the Oregon line to
the Mexican border with a minimum of
interferences with, or from, inhabited
areas (even inew subdivisions are re--
quired to establish easements for the
trail system). The Los Angeles County
Parks and Recreation Department has a
full-time trails director, Paul R. Little,
and a full-time construction crew of
seven deveIOping the trail network.

Among the Missing

GOING! A National Park Service sur-
vey of the Atlantic and Gulf coasts re-
veals that, of the 3,700 miles of general
shoreline, there are only 240 miles, or
6% per cent, under federal or state own-
ership for public recreation purposes
and little available for future acquisi-
tion. More than half of the 240 miles is
in the Cape Hatteras National Seashore
Recreation Area and in Acadia and
Everglades National Parks. The Park
Service will do a similar study of the
Pacific and Great Lakes shorelines.
GOING! Various international organiza-
tions have become concerned about
threats to wildlife and open lands in
Africa! An attempt by the Tanganyika
government to reduce the Serengeti
game park by a third in order to accom-
modate migratory Masai tribesmen
aroused an international storm. Local
wildlife conservationists, 'as well as
American and British authorities, have
protested the move and the Serengeti af-
fair is being regarded as a test case for
national parks and reserves in Africa.
GONE! The U. S. Forest Service has
changed the boundaries of the Three

RECREATION Therapist positions
in California State Hospitals Open
to college graduates with maior
in Recreation or Recreation Ther-
apy and supervised field work.
Opportunities for advancement.

For information and salary sched-
ule effective July 1957 Write:
Medical Recruitment Unit, Box
R90, State Personnel Board, 801
Capitol Ave., Sacramento, Cali-
fornia.

JUNE 1957

 

Sisters wilderness area in Oregon to
allow timber production and has let con-
tracts to American and Japanese com-
panies for large-scale lumbering activi-
ties on Admiralty Island in Alaska.
Conservation organizations have long
advocated that both these areas be given
national park status.

Youth Fitness Benefits

 

At the Big Bike Ride and Jamboree

in Washington, D.C., sponsored by
American Youth Hostels on May 19,

Miller Moore, (above right) presented
the AYH National Award for Distin-
guished Service to Youth to President
Eisenhower tllrough Dr. Shane Mac-
Carthy, exccutive director of the Presi-
dent’s Council on Youth Fitness. Miss
Margo Lucy, the current Miss Washing-
ton, is shown riding one of the Ameri-
can middleweight bikes presented to
local orphanages by Robert E. Mc-
Laughlin, president of the District’s
Board of Commissioners, in behalf of
the Bicycle Institute of America. The
purpose of the AYH Big Bike Ride was
to direct attention of the public to the
benefits of cycling and hosteling for
youth, and to demonstrate the need for
bike paths and special routes for cycling.

Local recreation departments might
well use a like stunt to catch public
attention and support for community
cycling programs as well as for physical
fitness values of cycling.

To Upheld the 97

The firm bclief that “97 out of 100”
of the 18,000,000 teen-agers in this

 

country “are responsible kids,” has led
Cornelius Vanderbilt Whitney to invest
$2,000,000 in a film to prove that to-
day’s youth “is a terribly maligned gen-
eration.” Mr. Whitney, an industrialist,
sportsman and motion-picture producer,
believes that the film (based on John
Burress’ The Missouri Traveler, pub-
lished by Vanguard Press, 1955) will
present a more balanced picture of
American youth than the usual Holly-
wood movie indicates.

IN MEMORIAM
Charles Frederick Weller

As we go to press, the news reaches
us that an old friend of the recreation
field died in May, at the age of eighty-
six. Charles Frederick Weller, one of
the pioneers of the playground move-
ment, established the first playground
in our nation’s capital when he was an
Associated Charities executive in Wash-
ington. He also was one of the founders
of the Playground Association of Amer-
ica, serving as a member of the Asso-
ciation’s staff for about ten years, be-
ginning in 1912. During part of that
time, he was Association Secretary.

The National Recreation Associa-
tion’s Board of Directors has passed a
resolution at its May 22 meeting, honor-
ing Mr. Weller for his contributions to
recreation, social welfare, and world

fellowship. He was editor of World Fel-
lowship, a book published in 1936 by

Liveright Publishing Corporation.
Guy L. Shipps
Guy L. Shipps of Midland, Michigan,

died on May 23. He was a pioneer in
the field of rccreation in Midland and
was well known nationally for his in-
terest and activity in recreation for the
industrial worker. He served as con-
sultant on community activities of the
Dow Chemical Company at Midland.
Taking a six months leave of absence
in 1942, he served on the staff of the
National Recreation Association in con-
nection with a study of recreation for
wartime defense workers. I

’ PLAYGRO D
JamisonEQUWaT

Ba sore to check the many' excluslve fealures of

this rugged l'nc. Write for free catalog of 254
items.

\‘Em‘ .'
l 9." 7:

Jamison Manufacturing Co.
8781 Soulh Meltler Street
has Angelos 3,. Cal fornia

215

 

Early California lives again in this Main Street in

Ghost Town. Stop off here when you go over to
Knott’s Berry Farm in Buena Park for a elneken
dinner, or en route to pay a visit to the Steak House.

ELEGATES, ATTENTION! Save a few of your summer vaca-
l] tion days for Congress time, and use them for some
adventuring down Long Beach way. Enjoy this playground
of Southern California.

From the balcony of Congress headquarters, the Muni-
cipal Auditorium, you will not only be able to enjoy the blue
Pacific Ocean but, on a clear day, to see lovely Catalina
Island. Or, after only a few minutes by air or two hours by
steamer, you can examine Catalina first hand and explore
a paradise of undersea gardens, flying fish and submarine
life through glass-bottom boats. Many outstanding rec-
reation facilities and activities are to be found in and around
Avalon, Catalina’s charming small city.

As a matter of fact, there are other famous attractions
within a thirty-fivc-mile radius of Long Beach—the San
Gabriel Mountains, desert areas, orangc and lemon groves,
and miles of Pacific Ocean heaches. Or do you yearn to takc
a stroll down to “Hollywood and Vine”? Thc movic studios
are only an hour from Congress headquarters. This goes
also for Beverly Hills, Santa Anita, the Rosc Bowl and thc
bcautiful Pasadena area. For those who wish to play golf
or tennis or go swimming, ample opportunities exist.

Fantastic Disneyland, built at a cost of more than
$22,000,000, requires at least a whole day. It is a land of
make believe, where grown-ups revert to childhood fantasy
as they visit True Life Adventureland on a junglc boat ride,
F ronticrland, Fantasyland, Storybookland, and other imag-
inative and thrilling lands.

According to Jessie Ash Arndt, writing in The Christian
Science Monitor, the adult in Disneyland “either feels like a
child again or he remains rather wistfully adult, a little

ashamed of having forgotten to check his grown-upness at
the gate.”

For Congress \Veelc

It is usually warm during this season in Long Beach.
Lightweight clothes are in order and no rain equipmcnt is

necessary. Those coming in cars will find innumerable short

216

What To Do and 8

Combine your vacation with
The National Recreation

Congress, by the sea, Sep-
tember 30 to October 4.’

sidetrips of great interest. The county abounds in attractive
motels and good moderately-priced hotels in addition to the
larger ones where conferences are usually held. Living
expenses will be no higher than in other sections of the
country and are really much more reasonable than in many.
M eke your hotel reservations earfy.’

Congress Tour

A Congress tour has been arranged on Wednesday,
October 2, for delegates to visit the Long Beach municipal
parks, beaches and schools and to observe the operation of
the unique and successful coordinated municipal and school
recrcation program. Many new rccreation facilities will bc
in readiness at Congress time as a result of the $5,000,000
park and recreation bond issue passed by the peOple of Long
Beach in 1956. These improvements include, among others,
five new recreation buildings, a modern bascball stadium
and many acres of new landscaping. More about them and
the local recrcation program will appear in the next issuc
of RECREATION.

On Saturday, October 5, an all-day tour also will be taken
to sce the beautiful and outstanding Los Angeles County
parks and recreation areas.

In addition, many sidetrips have been planncd for thc
leisure time of dclegates, and particularly for their wives.
For cxploration in your leisure, therc arc many facilities
actually at your doorstcp. The “Nu-Pike,” a large com-
mercial recreation area within walking distance of head-
quarters, is thc “Coney Island” of this southland. Visitors
may walk or drive around Rainbow Picr—a drive built ovcr
a part of the Pacific Ocean—then stop to rcst and listen to
the public forum at the “University-by-thc-Sca.” Belmont
Shore and Pierpoint Landing afiord nautical atmosphcre.
varicd restaurants and interesting shops. The newly-com-
plctcd marina, built at a cost of $14,000,000, providcs
anchorage for many small craft including sailboats.

At Congrcss timc the sport-fishing scason will be. at its
peak. \Vhite sea bass, barracuda, albacore, ycllowtail. and
so on, can bc caught evcn on half-day fishing trips. Live-bait
barges lie within the calm harbor waters. Hcrc halibut,
mackerel and shark will give all thc thrills of a dcep-sea trip.
Sevcral fresh-watcr spots are close by for trout and othcr
specics. If you are realty vacationing, be surc to pack your
fishing tackle. I

RECREATION

 

‘ . l a.‘ . ‘ -
:53": wrr?§“7--
Beautiful Avalon Bay, showing steamer at dock and glass-
bottom powerboats awaiting passengers for the voyage over

Santa Catalina’s renowned submarine gardens. The island
also offers sight-seeing tours and moonlight horseback rides.

 
 
   
  

1’acific Ocean breaks on Southern
rnia’s interesting coastline. This
panorama shows Alanlitos Bay in
Beach and the popularity of the safe Right:
; on its azure surface. Sun and surf
's relax on beautiful beaches protect-
breakwaters. There is ample oppor-
for deep sea and surf fishing. Long
is one of the country’s great ports
rodnces one fourth of California’s oil.

In Disneyland visit the
Rainbow Desert and Caverns
aboard the miniature Rainbow
Mountain Mining and Explora-
tion Company train that chnITs
along, passing sueh wonders as
uinlti-colored waterfalls and
other spectacles. If you fancy
you can also travel via the Mis-
sissippi River paddle steamer.

 

au pan real gold in the sluice box in
Town and take it back home as a
‘lll‘. From Long Beach, you take

ray 39 north just five miles to the Blarineland of the Pacific is located thirty miles south of Los Augeles aloug

Ghost towns and old missions, or- a rocky coastline drive. Here you can watch marine life underwater. This
II‘OV’eSe lllOlmtaillSa desert and ocean is the largest oeeanaria in the world and is an enthralling experience even
1d a sight-seer find a wider choice? if ichthyology isn’t for you. It takes all kinds of fish to people an ocean.

‘  II I \ 't- t I._
6 .

 

JUNE 1957 217

 

H" e can see a teen council trying
out this idea, or the outdoor carnival
committee, the pageant committee,
the Christmas party committee or
other special special committees
that are usually tearing their hair to
think of new and exciting ideas. A
department stag, too, can use this
plan to discover new special events,
or promotion schemes, for the sum-
mer playgrounds. Try it out! See
i f it works, and write us your ex peri-
ences with it!

STUDIES have shown that you often can get fully sixty-five
per cent more ideas from people thinking together than
from the same number of people thinking about the same
problem by themselves for the same period of time. In any
field that depends upon ideas for the bulk of its success, it
is difficult for one person to be a store of unending origi-
nality and imagination. A recreation program should be
varied and creative and one which offch some diflcrent
ideas to maintain the intcrcst and pleasure of the partici-
pants. I imagine any director knows the anguish of study-
ing a month’s program plan and wondering what to offer
his participants that will be new, interesting and also stimu-
late social growth of the individual, or otherwise accom-
plish the purposes he has set for his program.

Most recreation agencies do have a program committee of
some type or provide some method by which thc program
participants have a voice in deciding what activities are pre-
sented and what policies are established. In Army Service
Club recreation, this is accomplished, for the most part, by
the use of enlisted men’s councils. At our installation, we
have used these councils as a part of the planning process.
Many valuable suggestions have becn given by the men.
They not only have a voice in what activities to includc in
the program, but also in establishing policics and in actually
carrying out part of the program scheduled.

Council meetings in the past have been of a pretty gcneral
type and dealt not only with program plans but with many

 

Mus. SARGENT is director of the Granite City Engineer Depot
Service Club, Granite City, Illinois. Excerpts are reprinted
with permission from an article by Karon Kehoe, Jobs Edi-

tor, September 1956 issue of Charm, The Magazine for
Women Who Work.

218

in Recreation

Brainstorming

Mary Frances Sargent

 

other topics and problems. By dealing with so many topics
in one morning, however, we generally did not get down
to developing or generating any real creative thinking.
When it came to deciding what activities to include in the
month’s program we stuck pretty much to what had been
done before. If a particular activity had provcd highly suc-
ccssful, the tendency was to repeat it. It seemed evident that
some tool was nceded to use thc council in a more effective
way, to keep the group from thinking in a stereotyped man-
ner and to raise the level, so to speak, of its function.

With these thoughts in mind, I happencd upon an article
which dcscribed a thought process, originated in the adver-
tising field, labeled brainstorming.‘ This is a freewheeling
thought process that produces ideas for solving specific
problems. The ideas come from a group of people who sit
down together, concentratc 011 a specific problem, and speak
their minds without having to worry about how silly their
ideas may sound to anyone else. “The process works on
the basis that a mecting is devoted only to thc giving of
ideas. No discussion, 110 criticism. No can’t’s, but’s, tllat-
wouldn’t-work! No handshaking, no smilcs of approval,
or frowns of doubt.”

This process might well be adapted, I felt, as the tool wc
had becn sceking to makc our council more effective. It
also seemed a way to havc the enlisted mcn concentrate on
one phase of our work at a timc. Often in our usual meet-
ings, good idcas wcre sometimes lost in thc immediatc dis-
cussion of details or the pros and cons of something. So
we decided to try brainstorming. Although its cXponcnts
recommend the tcchnique to get new ideas and to solve any
problcm, we uscd it in one 1necting to get ncw ideas for
service club programs and completh the session with a
goodly number of very workablc ones not thought of beforc.

This thought proccss is used by such conuncrcial com-

* “Brainstorming” has passed into language, being one of the new
words cued in the 1957 Brittanica Book of the Year.

RECREATION

)anies as Campbell Soup, Bristol Myers and other large con-
:erns. The whole business, I understand, was a 1939 “brain-
lash” of Alex Osborn, co-founder of Batten, Barton, Dur-
itine and Osborn, one of the largest advertising agencies.
Brainstorming,” the article in Charm which served as a
guide in our adaptation of the process to our enlisted men’s
:ouncil, was written by Karon Kehoe. She points out that,
p successfully use the method, the group must fully under-
;tand the rules and the process involved. The first thing to
get across is that this is to be a thought process to solve a
=pecific problem; in our case, “What types of recreation pro-
rram activities would be of interest to the soldiers who use
jur club?” We purposely chose a comparatively simple
iubject for our first session.

Miss Kehoe suggests that certain ground rules, which fol-
low, should be observed. Each is important and contributes
o the total success. A chairman is appointed (this could be
fie Service Club, director or chairman of the council) and
ms a small table bell at his disposal. He rings this bell when
anyone makes a slip in brainstorming etiquette, offering crit-
cism, or a that-wouldn’t-work comment, and so on.

Governing Rules

1. Judgments are out. Criticism of ideas must be with-
1eld until later. The no-evaluation approach elicits more
.deas than alternate thinking and discussion.

2. Freewheeling is the order of the day. The more un-
.nhibited the mental calisthenics performed, the better. Wild
ideas spark others to think more imaginatively. It is always
:asier to tame down than to think up.

3. The more ideas the better, sheer quantity is important
because the percentage of usable ones remain stable.

4. Combinations of two or more ideas may be best of all.
ln addition to contributing ideas of his own, each council
member may try to improve on the ideas of others or re-

:ombine them in new ways. Hitchhiking, as it is called, is
welcome.

Preplanning

Apart from instructing your council or panel on the
ground rules, some preplanning is necessary:

1. Members of the council can be the “core” members, or
the group can be enlarged with guests invited for varying
backgrounds or experiences.

2. Ideally, all participants should be on a par in au-
thority (all enlisted men, or workers, or volunteers) but
officials should not, as a general rule, be included. One mem-
her of higher authority will halt the free-thinking process
usually. “Fear of appearing foolish in front of the boss can
squelch even the most precocious—and possibly precious—
brainchild.”

3. The chairman should present a memo to each member
at the beginning of the meeting stating the exact problem or
idea to be tackled.

4. Arrangements should be made for pre-meeting food. It
needn’t be fancy but “on the house.” Coffee and cookies
will suflice. Sharing food establishes a relaxed atmosphere.

5. Someone should be assigned to take notes—repor-
torially, not word for word. No one is given credit for his

JUNE 1957

ideas as such, because he might never have had it if some-
one across the table hadn’t had another idea first.

6. The secretary also numbers the ideas so the chairman
can keep track of how many ideas have been developed. This
information can be used in a “squeeze play” by the chair-
man, who may say, “We have twenty-five ideas, now let’s
make it thirty in the remaining five minutes time.” Even
when the panelists are limp, just one more idea can set off a
whole set of others.

Care should be exercised in the selection of a chairman,
as a session may “curl up and die” because of a pontificat-
ing chairman, or a council member, determined—bell or
no bell——-to hog the whole show.

Idea Use

After the meeting the chairman should go over the origi-
nal list to see that all ideas are properly and adequately
described. From this list the chairman or council will have
to weed out those ideas which may not be suitable for local
reasons, those that are way beyond the budget or those
against agency policy. What’s left? Eight, ten or more
ideas, probably, which are good, and maybe some which
are outstanding.

 

Some provision should be worked out whereby the panel
or council can be given a report on which ideas are to be
adapted and, maybe, reasons why others had to be rejected.
Or it may be a more suitable plan to have the members of
the council, in a later meeting, sift through the list and select
those ideas most suitable. Subject of the meeting and local
conditions will probably dictate which plan would best fit
the needs. At any rate, members will be interested in the
fate of their brainchildren and some provision should be
worked out to take care of this interest.

Do’s and Don’t’s

If you are thinking of promoting a session:

1. Don’t be aggressively enthusiastic before the session is
held. You will provoke a skeptical, “we’ll see” attitude.

2. D0 brief your council members thoroughly both about
“brainstorming” and about the problem to be worked on.

3. Do follow up and hold council member interest by
reporting results.

Valuable as are the specific ideas that come out of the
sessions, perhaps even more valuable are the by-products in
human terms: limbered imaginations, greater tolerance of
others “crackbrained” ideas. And, there is the business of

219

 

learning to play a game, so to speak, while working. The
value, too, of working as a team becomes evident to each

council member.

Although brainstorming is a process developed in the
advertising field, it seems an ideal process to adapt to recre-
ation planning. A good method to insure that participants
in the program have an active part in planning and a sure
method of injecting their recreation “wants” into your

program.

Some topics that have been selected for future brainstorm-
ing sessions by our enlisted men’s council are:

1. By what new ways can we more effectively publiciz
service club activities?

2. In what new ways can we best utilize our communit

teers.

resources in our program?

.3. What activities can we plan to attract married couple
to the service club?

4. New ideas for a program to honor service club volun-

We feel this list is just a start, and can foresee man

Softball is Dead ?
NO T IN SA GINA w!

Butch and Pigtail Leagues are slinging some fast ones. l

IN THIS day and age,0f the stepped-up
Little League, the Babe Ruth League,
the Pony League and the just plain
Knothole Leagues, many recreation de-
partments have seen softball, their old
standby, sink to the threshold of exting-
tion. This was the case in Saginaw,
Michigan, until three years ago when
the recreation department decided to do
something about it. From a once thriv-
ing pre-war program of forty-six men’s
teams and many thousands of specta-
tors, softball had dwindled to fourteen
teams and a few wives and relatives who
came out to watch the games. While
many laid the blame on TV, on the high
cost of fielding a team, and on a stepped-
. up baseball program in Saginaw, rec-
reation department oflicials refused to
accept a defeatist attitude and set about
to win new friends for softball. ‘
Realizing that if you’re going to re-
build interest in softball, you have to
do it on the youngsters’ level, a Butch
League for boys and a Pigtail League
for girls were organized. Ages for the
girls were set at fourteen-and-under,
and eighteen-and-under. This was
roughly to divide them into categories
for junior-high and senior-high girls

The Butch League afforded an in-

teresting recreation experiment. The
YMCA had previously conducted a
boys’ softball program which had been

Mn. ELLIOTT is director of recreation in
Saginaw, Michigan.

220

dealt a death blow by the advent of
Knothole Baseball in the city. Only a
few scattered teams remained when the
“Y” turned the gasping softball pro-
gram over to the recreation department.
The problem was this—with one hun-
dred and ten boys’ baseball teams in
town, was there any room for a softball
program? Obviously some new source
had to be tapped and some new ideas
instilled in the program.

Since the baseball program used
age categories
fourteen-and-under,

of twelve-and-under,
sixteen-and-under
and eighteen-and-under, the age-span
seemed pretty well covered; but recrea-
tion officials noticed that the nine- and
ten-year-olds who wcre playing in the
twelve-and-under division became gun-
shy of a baseball after a few bad
bounces in the inficld or a few wild
pitches hit them. The result was a whole
host of youngsters who were falling
away from the pitch at the plate and
becoming discouraged in the field.
Therefore, in addition to the twelve-
and-under and fourteen-and-under age
division, a ten-and-under division was
added—and it draws more spectators to

games than any of the other divisions.

On top of this it has stimulated parent

, interest in the program beyond belief.

Whereas many parents figure a twelve-
to eighteen-year-old youngster can get
to the game on his bicycle and is pretty
independent, they will drive the little
eight- nine- and ten-year olds to the

aspects of our recreation program that could be improve
with a brainstorming session. I

Malcolm Elliottd

game site and stay to watch and cheer.
One word of caution in connection with‘
spectators, however. Parents can be-

 
  
   
   
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
     
  

come overzealous and get carried away
to the point of disrupting your gam
and officials; so Saginaw just put in
the rule that no adult may stand in the
coaching box or step'on the field of
play during a game.

Since the baseball program was held
in the morning, it was obvious that soft-
ball had to be in the evening and thi
worked out so well that it draws twice as
many spectators as the baseball pro-
gram does. There is only about a
twenty-five per cent overlapping of play-
crs participating in both programs.

Now, after three years of extensive
softball at the younger level, Saginaw’s
softball program is once more on the
upswing, with one hundred and four
softball teams playing in seven leagues
in Saginaw this past season.

And what effect has this had on the
baseball program? T he Knothole Base-
ball program ltas actually grown at l—lt-
same time. Many of the eight- and nine
year-olds who play softball overcom
their fears as their self-confidence grow
and join twelve-and-under basebal
teams, too. In fact, there were one hun3
dred and seventeen youngsters’ baseball
teams in Saginaw last year. |

The old theory that baseball kills soft- I
ball participation and vice versa has1
been disproven here, and other cities I
may well profit from this experience. I

llncnmrtoa

 

B’nai B’rith youth at work on their planting project
to improve parks and playgrounds. In center (left to
right), B. D. Mott and Orin Wennersten of the recrea-
tion and park department and Rabbi Morris haplan.

TREE PLANTING is important and can
be fun! So say hundreds of young
Southern Californians, who volunteered
to participate in a program of park
planting and recreation improvement
in Los Angeles.

The idea was conceived in the office
of George Hjelte, general manager of
the department of recreation and parks,
where the chairman of the lnterfrater-
nity Council of University of California
at Los Angeles and the director of the
youth division of B’nai B’rith sat down
with William Frederickson, J r., recrea-
tion supcrintendent, and asked if they
could do something of a lasting nature
for a park or playground.

Heretofore, these young people had
conducted an annual paper drive, and
vast quantities of paper were gathcred
and sold. Revenue thus derived went to
local charities. The endeavor was
worthy of emulation, but it had no
lasting visible effect.

Partnership in industry has long been
considered good business, so the ques-
tion posed was, “Why not try it in the
field of recreation?” Certainly the feel-
ing of ownership would be a determi-
nate factor in the reduction of juvenile
vandalism, because no youngster is
likely to desecrate something in which
he has possessive interest.

With this partnership of user and
management in mind, a program was
formulated and presented to each B’nai
B’rith young person and the fraternity
in turn. Recreation and park depart-

MR. MOTT is senior park foreman of the
Los Angeles Recreation and Park De-

partment.

JUNE 1957

ment maintenance personnel under su-
pervisor Orin Wennersten took to the
plan with gusto, and many meetings be-
tween park men and leaders of the youth
groups resultcd in an organization that
worked to perfection.

The idea of planting trees, something
alive and growing, or improving a bare
field with play equipment had an im-
mediate appeal to youthful imagination,
and the program was received with great
enthusiasm. For a period of three years,
this enthusiasm has persisted and has
utilized the efforts of twenty-five hun-
dred boys and girls for an average of
four hours per person on each project.

As a result, fifteen thousand trees,
fifty thousand shrubs, and twenty-five
thousand square feet of lawn have been
planted. Also, two hundred fifty picnic
tables have been put in place and a
clubhouse has been painted. A softball
diamond with cage and fifteen charcoal-
burning picnic stoves were installed.

All was not toil, however, as each
group enjoyed a grand picnic during the
day: There were games and other fea-
tures to give every participant a feeling
of fun as well as accomplishment.

Five locations were selected for im-
provement. The first was a brush-cov-
ered, hilly sixty acres, with a good level
site for a ball field. This site was
donated to the city by public-spirited
citizens interested in recreation. These
same people cooperated further by fur-
nishing transportation, lunch, and re-
freshments to the five hundred UCLA
interfraternity members who improved
the area entirely by themselves. The
boys did the planting and heavy jobs,

Young Citizens Improve
Reereetien Areas

B. D. Mott

“A partnership of user and management”—
isn’t that what we all want in recreation? Pro-
viding opportunities for the “user” to he of
lasting service is one of the best ways of achiev-
ing such partnership.

and the girls painted, handled first aid
and helped in many other ways. This
was a two-year effort and the class of
1954-55 may point with pride to the
cedar and eucalyptus trees many years
hence and remark how they had a hand
in their being.

The other four locations were very
well handled by the youth organization
and its two thousand teen-age members
from all over Southern California who
gave their Memorial Day holiday to
participate. The problem of organizing
them was a little complicated because
none of the tree-planters was over
eighteen years old. The recreation and
park department furnished park fore-
men to instruct group leaders selected
for their maturity from the groups; and
these leaders, in turn, gave directions to
ten or twelve of their fellow workers.

Results were amazing, in view of the
inexperience of the young people en-
gaged in the undertaking. Every tree
and every shrub planted was identified
as to proper name and place of origin
and the planting procedure was explain-
ed in detail so that no one would be in
ignorance as to what he was doing. N 0
casualties of any nature—except blisters
——were sufiered by anyone.

It is certain that everyone concerned
with this program gained something—
the young folks enjoyed the satisfaction
of lasting accomplishment and their in-
structors had the benevolent feeling
brought about by a job well done.

The Los Angeles Recreation and Park
Department can well be proud of this
successful “partnership in recreation”
experiment. I

221

 

   
 

How would you survive if you were to be
stranded suddenly in these surroundings?
A “survival hike” will help you find out.

MANY PEOPLE going on nature hikes
and walks need something special
to develop or continue their interest on
a conducted trip. During six years as
a park naturalist in Indiana, leading
nature walks for nearly all kinds of
groups—from schools and churches to
women’s clubs, sororities, Scouts, and
family groups on vacation ——1 have
found several techniques successful in
. sustaining and expanding interest.
These consist primarily in the use of
certain special themes for nature hikes
which excite the imagination and relate
nature to adventure, history, religion,
and other subjects that are so much a
part of nearly everyone’s experience.
When hikes are scheduled for groups
of various ages, including elderly peo-
ple, they are shorter and listed as walks.
For young folks they are hikes. The fol-
lowing four themes have proved most

popular.

Survival Hike

In an area where all the trails are

 

MR. OVERLEASE is assistant to the direc-
tor of education in the Academy of
Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, Penn-
sylvania.

222

very similar, it is often difficult to hold
interest after a group had been on more
than two or three hikes. Announce a
“survival hike”; one that will not be
difficult or long. No other information
is given to the hikers except that they
will need their imaginations. The group
is taken to a preselected spot, usually
near a small stream. Then tell them to
imagine that they are the only survivors
ofian airplane crash hundreds of miles
in a vast wilderness. All they have to
help them now is their own good sense
and whatever is in their pockets.

After pooling resources—candy bars,
gum, matches, pocketknives or anything
else they have -——- thcy should discuss
what to do. Often they need a little help
to get them going on their imaginary
predicament, but, once started, imagina-
tions work overtimc. Usually one or two
persons are designated as having broken
arms needing immediate attention. This
often gets the group started on the right
track without further ado. They are
soon discussing how to make an emer-
gency splint; handkerchiefs and belts
are out, the injured persons are bedeck-
ed with bandages, and this sort of situ-
ation is'under control. It is important

For Successful

Nature Hikes

Try these new techniques which have been used successfully

in holding and expanding the interest of both children

and adults—in clubs, schools, churches, Scouts, families.

William R. Over-lease

to select the prospective victims care-
fully. They should have a good sense
of humor as they often set the tone of
the whole walk with their remarks.

The rest of the hike is spent in figur-
ing out how to signal, whether to stay
with the wreck, how to fifid shelter, what
to eat and drink. Tlle_leader can help
by pointing out edible wild fruits, nuts
and greens; 110w to prepare them; how
to catch animals by simple snares; how
to find shelter; and ways of keeping
warm. “Salamander stews” and “roast
grasshoppers” havc been favorite reci-
pes discussed on this hike.

Adults seem to enjoy this hike as
much as the younger folks, if not morc
so. The most successful hikes appear
to bc the ones with a large percentagc'
of adults. There is a note of serious-
ness with nearly all the groups, as they,
seem to feel that some day what tllcy are:
doing and learning might indeed be,
very valuable. Thcre are sevcral hooksi
available on edible wild plants; and the
armcd forces survival manuals are ex-
cellent sources of information.“

" See review of How To Survive on Lead or
Sea on page 240. i

RECREATION.

Pioneer Hike

Another theme that works well with
small groups and family groups is a
“pionecr hike” or walk. The groups
turn back the clock one hundred and
fifty or, if you like, one hundred years
by crossing over a magic path—with left
arm raised over their head, right eye
closed, and holding their breath for ten
steps. It sounds corny, but it gets the
group in a good mood and is received
better by adults than might be sup-
posed. After passing over the magic
trail and finding themselves transported
back to the year 1820 or so, the group is
led to figure out what they will need to
live in the wilderness and how to meet
these needs with materials from the for-
est. For example: tulip tree logs for a
cabin; white oak clapboards for the
roof; pioneer mahogany (wild black
cherry) for furniture; inner bark of
slippery elm for chewing gum; and so
on. Pioneer medicines from herbs also
prove to be an interesting subject on
these walks—such plantsoas pleurisy
root (butterfly weed), sassafras, bone-
set, pennyroyal (chigger weed), and
flowering dogwood (ague tree). Other
materials that can be worked in include
soap-making from wood ashes, pioneer
dyes, greens and other foods, methods
of clearing land (girdling trees and
why), folklore, and uses of various
kinds of woods for certain products

such as fence rails, wedges, mallets and
chair caning.

The magic path is crossed again to
bring the group back to the present with
the same ritual used at the beginning.
The hike ends with a short lecture on
what these “pioneers from one hundred
and fifty years ago” should watch for
in this twentieth centuryhhorseless car-
riages, flying machines, noise boxes call-
ed radios, and other contraptions.

Elderly people particularly enjoy this
walk as they often can give many sug-
gestions from their own early experi-
ence or from having heard their parents
talk about some activity related to pio-
neer living.

Indian Hike

This is a hike along similar lines, ap-
pealing mostly to younger groups. It
provides an excellent means of interest-
ing young children in spring wild flow-

JUNE 1957

ers, and has many other possibilities. It
helps the group experience, to some de-
gree, how the Indians lived and how
much they depended on the things they
found growing in the forest. Another
objective of this hike is to help the chil-
dren and their leaders realize how much
of our national heritage is the result of
our association with the Indians; for
example, the names of many of our well-
known cities, lakes and rivers, trees,
wildflowers, animals and expressions of
speech are Indian. These include such
names as chinquapin (dwarf chestnut),
catalpa, hickory, cohosh, persimmon,
pecan, poke, raccoon, coyote, Chicago,
Allegheny, Hoboken, Kalamazoo, Pasa-
dena, Illinois and Connecticut: Many,
many others could be listed for almost

Why not start an Audubon Junior
Club on your playground or in your
camp? A minimum of twenty-five mem-
bers at twenty-five cents each ($6.25)
is all that is necessary to enroll a club.
Each child gets a lovely twenty-four-

page booklet and an attractive club
button. The leader gets the Nature
Counselor’s Guide and the Audubon
Flower Chart. Write to Audubon Junior
Clubs, 1130 Fifth Avenue, New York
28.

 

any local area by checking through state
historical materials, county histories,
or, if these fail, the several books that
have been 'written on names of U. S.
cities and states.

Indian craft/materials can be pointed
out on the hike; such as those used for
making fire by friction, making rope
from basswood innerbark, huts from
elm bark, preferred wood for bows and
arrows, and any others the leader may

wish to stress. Indian medicinal herbs,
natural dyes, edible roots, greens, and

seeds, and 110w they were prepared and
used are also good subjects to work into

the hike.

When the group is small, it often adds
to the hike to give each member an In-
dian name, usually referring to some-
thing they have on: green shirt, purple
hat, big buttons. This works best if done
by the leader, as children sometimes are
apt to give certain members highly un-
complimentary names!

Church Walk

A favorite of all special-theme walks,
especially with adult groups, is the
“church walk” given on Sunday morn-
ing and lasting about an hour. The
theme of such a walk can be our com-
mon trees and wildflowers and their re-
lated Bible stories and legends. Animal
material related to the Bible can be
worked in occasionally but is more diffi-
cult because the particular animals are
seldom present when wanted.

Common legends are those concern-
ing the flowering dogwood, the Joshua
tree, the Judas tree (redbud) and the.
sycamore. The legend of the robin’s red
breast is another favorite. There are
also stories behind the common names
of many of our wild Flowers: J acob’s-
ladder, J ob’s-tears (false Solomon’s-
seal), Solomon’s-seal, and Aaron’s-rod

(common mullein) .

The botanical relationship between
some of our common plants and those
mentioned in thc Bible works in very
well. Some examples of botanical rela-
tionship are the anemones of our woods
and the “lilies of the field,” which, ac-
cording to most scholars, were really
anemones; also, the relationship of the
common red cedar to the cedars of
Lebanon and the history of King Solo-
mon sending 180,000 men to cut the
cedars. This story can also be used to
demonstrate the need of forest conserva-
tion, for thc hills where once these

mighty forests grew are today nearly
barren desert.

A sermon on the out-of-doors and its
spiritual values can be easily worked
into this walk to make it a fine Sunday
service to use, on occasion, in camps

There

are many books on the animals of the

and other outdoor gatherings.

Bible and several on the plants which
can be obtained at any large library.

These special themes are best when
worked into a regular program of na-
ture hikes and walks to help promote
interest among those who may think
that nature is strictly biology and class-
room stuff. Variations of these themes
can make them attractive to nearly any
age group depending on the leader’s
ingenuity. l

223

 

HOW TO DO 'T o”

224

MAKE A BANJO

* MATERIALS NEEDED

Cigar §ox -—//ard Mood Pieces; .30 'xl'xé ',

/§' 20ux Z'Brgéu, 2 'kétxé", and fat/r
pieces 2333—3931:? - 5beepsk/b and Banjo
Mfr-e 5fr/bas .

 

   
  
 

gym/e 49%: each 0/759-

  

     
  
   

fm bole.
,_ J,

IRI/ .3: '~
- o

'/

    

 

u /
reinforce wi’rh brads and cu’l'ouf l"sq.no’rth On each end . 

/
2.Make ARM - (5!? dag/am). 2" K20“ 4"

    
 
 

- NUT
\ “fk -—" r v o
3.!‘10ke NUT—- (see doom/7y. \v-l [2,,  

  
 

A/o/E’: («fa/0014’s woe/7 amamb/ea’.
4. Make FINGER BOARD ~(see drag/am).

5.Moke FOUR PEG—S ~(see wagram).
6. Make BRIDGE (see wag/am).

 

Assam E>LE BANJO

@6/«8 aaf mfo Info/7 in arm. @ G/ae arm 76 box Koo/‘me endpro/ec/s Z "oats‘xa’e boy). @A’e/hfm'e
joxhis‘faox andarm) by a/a/ba/oxace of wood on ‘60 of arm aaa’ eraM/y #455 wfo 7‘op ofbox aye.
@0260? a///o/bf.s and 57/ (vac/(5 a/I'f/J q/aa orpévfc wood~ w/Im a’ry mom or. 6Pafsbe¢oskla
Ibo/ace «ova/é 547}? /6oma9/7/y/a wafer, ~yaaéyu? oaf‘ warévr and :i/rev’ca orer b0 ofaox , 72206
0500* aa/éaay a’ocaa 0/7 a//.S/a’a.r 75M}? 31/}: around arm area/Q, dry 516/7 a5 yak/[a com/1%
@5‘2‘ 509% boartz’ ll? p/a(€ befa/eea box aaa’ aaf - fwo
x'nc/z aaa’ aen‘ b box ~7‘/)e upper Jar/ace 5/7041/67’256' /eye/
(ax/a /o,o of Soaepslf/a -- {ifs/nay 5/008 ofa/oaa’agamsf

box a!)an aeriaem arm and ffbyer rd.

3']: —_ 59¢ w ' '
jeeps/é,” fat.de m Moe . (KAI/#11115.III/l/I/I/I/II/Il/xaIla/15144coy/laawquf
i

_ I. 5hge} board B/ock
@(‘af’gmora' x}; 01132. [yo/75,77 4w @ @
afaroore grad/g if aaore fogar ooara’. @ 57" bar/96y: xa ao/as, Q Sandmoer 547mb

an?! m»; or Vamxls/v a// wooden areas. Q5)?“be baa/lo -- 73"? one andfo bo/e aféo/i'bm of
arm ~/oa// say/pa f/P/‘oay/n y/DOVC’ /'a max/“- 7‘x‘e 07% or aaa’of .5767}? hpeympawésfghky vaWasv"

7*0’ 7%? /€/f aaa’ ‘ffaesfsmaa 'Pa/aéaf'b #8 Haw. “ Bnb’ e
@P/aca oak/ye on Mad 07" banjo Lax/76 J/f/Joa: é
f/fmoaaa mafia: {more may; 7ba/ara/or aa/aq Q

#977 #3259” boa/ab/o 9a?“ barf fave). Sfrmas

@Zana 5/}7/795 by ooh/90mg or /005€a//79? 7779 fem/ox? of arr/has by fag-may #‘he pays Mob/[a

    
  

 

  

  

RECREATION

b Emafaé

n‘

awn Medea

The NRA Hospital Recreation Con-

sultant Service has been working very
closely with two new projects. One in-
volves the Williamsport (Pennsylvania)
Recreation Commission, which is trying
to solve a problem for the Williamsport
Technical Institute. There are over
three thousand students at the institute,
399 severely handicapped. Their tuition
fees are being paid by the government.
This number will perhaps be tripled in
1958 because of new government grants
for vocational rehabilitation training.

This institute is actually the only one
of its kind in the country where such a
large number of severely handicapped
students are accepted. Every part of
the student program is succcssful, ex-
cept for the leisure-time after-school
hours of this group. They have no place
to enjoy leisure-time activities because
there is no way to transport them to the
many facilities the town has to offer.
Thus, they either go back to their rooms
and do homework in the late afternoon,
go to evening adult education classes, or
are limited to radio and television pro-
grams. A third possibility is to go to the
neighborhood bar for sociahility. 0b-
viously, none of these three possibilitics
is very healthy; and the Williamsport
Recreation Commission and its director,
James Dittmar, called upon the Na-
tional Recreation Association for help.

Together, the NRA Hospital Service
and the department have set up a rec-
reation program for the handicapped
twice a week, at the YWCA. The NRA
has suggested games, holiday activities,
special events, movies, passive and
active music, hobbies, drama, news-
paper, arts and crafts, outings and so on.

At the same time, the NRA and the
Williamsport Recreation Commission
are considering a pilot project for such
students. It is to have the community,
and the state and federal governments
jointly finance a large building for
handicapped ,students—or at least a
large quonset shelter—with partitioned

 

 

MRS. HILL is the NRA consultant on
hospital recreation.

JUNE 1957

Beatrice [1. Hill

areas, for the many diversified facets of
the recreation program. Such a build-
ing will not isolate the handicapped stu-
dents from the non-handicapped ones,
but will provide a place easily reached
without transportation difficulties.

****

The other one is a pilot project in
Westchester County, New York, where
there are thirty-five nursing homes (li-
rectly under the jurisdiction of the West-
cheater Health Commission and the
\Vestchester Recreation Commission.
The National Recreation Association
knows that there is a tremendous need
for sustained recreation programs in all
nursing homes. Therefore, a pilot proj-
ect is being set up with seven nursing
homes, by the Westchester Health and
Recreation Commissions in cooperation
with the NRA. These will share the
salary of one recreation worker, ro-
tating volunteers and, in some cases,
equipment. The worker will have office
space at the largest home, and will per-
sonally visit each once a week. Most
of her time will he spent in making up
lists of local entertainment or adult
education sources and places where vol-
unteers can drive patients for a day
away from the home. She will be re-
sponsible for finding, training and
placing volunteers, setting up recreation
programs in each one of these homes. If
this project works out successfully, it
may prove that nursing homes and com-
munities can cooperate to the advantage
of both, recreationally speaking.

*l-‘I‘I

“Dance in Psychotherapy” was the
subject of a talk by Elizabeth Rosen,* at
a recent meeting of the New York Met-
ropolitan Hospital Recreation Associa-
tion. She said, in part:

Dance cannot be used as a panacea.

*ELIZABETH ROSEN, Ed.D., is a certified cor-
rective therapist and recreation therapist, and
has taught modern dance and dance therapy in
New York City’s school system, and Teachers
College, Columbia University. She will take
part in the “Recreation in Rehabilitation”
workshop, co-sponsored by the NRA and Co-
lumbia University, June 3-28.

All activity is important. Some patients
can make more use of dance, than
others. The therapist must be an active
part of the treatment team for dance to
be effective.

Today, art is heing used diagnos-
to help
patients eXpress their emotional prob-
lems. Creative dance may also be used
in this way; but only with certain pa-

tically and therapeutically

tients who can use this means of expres-
sion. Other forms of dance can also be
used. Dr. Richard Kraus of Columbia
University says that square and folk
dancing is one of the best measures of
reality testing that we have. The patient
who can keep up and dance the involved
figures is certainly in touch with reality.

Modern or creative dance is based on
natural body movements. The body is
used as the tool of the dancer. This type
of dancing is easy to participate in.
Anyone can swing an arm. There is a
kinetic response to others moving,
which is a form of communication. It
opens the way for socialization and the
therapist might begin to dance with one
patient, include another, and slowly
widen the circle.

For further information, see Mrs.
Rosen’s book, Dance in Psychotherapy,
Teachers College, Columbia University,
$4.50. It may be purchast from the
National Recreation Association Book
Center, as can another book of inter-

est, Clinical Application of Recreation

Therapy by Dr. John Davis. Charles C.
Thomas, publisher, $3.75.

****

A first annual conference, on “Rec-
reation Club Leadership of, by and for
the Handicapped,” was recently con-
ducted by the recreation and camping
department of the Connecticut Society
for Crippled Children and Adults. More
than one hundred handicapped persons
and their friends, representing special
recreation groups from Connecticut and
New York, attended the one-day confer-
ence to learn about improving their club
operation and program.

A complete proceedings has heen
compiled and is available at fifty cents
per copy from: Mr. Theodore Fabyan,
Director of Recreation and Camping,
Connecticut Society for Crippled Chil-
dren and Adults, Inc., 740 Asylum
Avenue, Hartford 5. l

225

The Importance

of

THE IMPORTANCE of ac-
quiring land in advance
of actual need has been pointed
out by Dr. Luther H. Gulick in
an article entitled, “The Coming
Age of Cities,” published in the
December 1956 issue of Inter-
nal A ffairs, issued by the Com-
monwealth of Pennsylvania.
Dr. Gulick proposed a drastic
new line of approach as fol-
lows:

It is now evident that metro-
politan areas, to preserve the _,,___
good life, will need many radial and
circumferential parkways as well as
areas reserved for air transport, parks,
and future industrial and private resi-
dential development. Once private sub-
urban developments have started, park-
ways, parks and other such projects
beeome prohibitive in cost and damag-
ing to existing private developers. The
only way out is the immediate purchase
by some public authority of extensive
rights of way and tracts of suitable
land, including prOperties outside of
city boundaries, in accordance with
eomprehensive plans. Such lands should
he held for future use, though used pro-
ductively in the meantime as conditions
may permit.

Such a program of advance land ac-
quisition, supervised by a commission
representative of the strongest and the
ahlest leaders and interests of the entire
metropolitan area, will make our great
cities of the future more economical,
more efficient and more beautiful. Bonds
issued would make an excellent outlet
for the increasing volume of funds seek-
ing long and stable investment and
would rest upon assets whose values

226

 

What would we all do wilhout the green
quiet of our parks, woods and streams?
W’e must have space to slrelch the Spirit!

would rise with the inevitable popula-
tion gains of the metropolitan areas.

‘1’" The tendency of many eities to “set-
tie” for substandard recreation areas
because of expensive land costs has
been strongly criticized by Professor
John T. Howard of M.l.T.: “The fact
that land costs twice as much per square

foot in one city as in another is not a
valid exeuse for chiseling a ‘standard,’

although it may be a very real reason
for not planning to meet the standard in
the near future.”

Professor Howard, former president
of the American Institute of Planners.
has also pointed out the importance of
recreation areas as a factor in planning
metropolitan areas “to make the resi-
dential parts of the region places for
good living—not merely healthfnl, but
convenient and pleasant.”

Such a planning policy “means op-
portunities for recreation, of all kinds,
both local and regional—the play-
ground, and the quiet little park; the

n

athletic grounds, for players and for
watchers; the picnic place, the boating
and riding and swimming places; the
woods and streams, the natural reserva-
tion big enough to get lost in. There
should be enough of all of these, and
so placed that everybody can'“get at
them. And beyond the measurable re-
quirements for specific recreational ac-
tivities, natural open spaces are very
much needed to break the monotony
that has become so typical of our subur-
ban sprawl, not only for visual pleasure,
but to divide what would otherwise be
frighteningly big urban areas into com-
munities to which people can feel that
they belong, in scale with human di-
mensions.

“These criteria are no more than the
accepted policies for the planning of
residential areas and services that have
been crystallized during the last genera-
tion. I have repeated them, not because
they are new, but because they are im-
portant.”*

Another noted planner, Leu'is Mum-
ford, has decried the increasing tenden-
cy toward excessive population densities
as follows: “Instead of maximizing
facilities for motorcars, we should maxi-
mize the advantages of urban life. Parks,
playgrounds, and schools, theatres, nni-
versities, and concert halls, to say
nothing of a quiet night’s sleep and a
sunny outlook when one wakes up, are
more important than any benefits to be
derived from the constant use of the
automobile. To accomplish this im-
provement, we must devise a fundamen-
tal change in the city’s whole pattern.
The plain fact is that the high-density
city is obsolete.”

‘1?" Recreation and park authorities
have been much more conservative than
school authorities in setting up demands
for neighborhood and connnunity rec-
reation spaces and have been less ag-
gressive in the actual acquisition of sites
for future use. The National Council
for School House Construction has
pointed out that experience has indi-
cated that ultimate site requirements
should be met with the injtial sitc ac-
quisition.

 

--

*“A Planner's Philosophy for the National
Capilal Region." Planning and Civic Com-
ment, March 1956.

RECREATION

/'l""t

¥< The favorable effect on property
values resulting from the redevelopment

of substandard areas in which land has
been set aside for park and recreation
purposes is illustrated by the experience
in Pittsburgh In a sixty-acre slum area,
every building was ripped down; one-
half of the area was made intO a park
and a housing project was built on the
remaining land. A few years later, de-
spite the fact that thirty acres had been
taken Off the tax rolls, the values Of land
in the rehabilitated district had in-
creased $10,500,000.

¥< At the 1957 Convention of the Cali-
fornia Society Of the American Institute
of Park Executives the keynote was
sounded by Dr. Robert E. Burns, presi-
dent of the College Of Pacific and mem-
ber Of the California State Park Com-
mission. He said, “It is vital that we
move now to acquire lands fOr tomor-
row’s park and recreation areas. Unless
we do, highways, industries, and urban
growth will swallow up the valuable
sites. Our lands are a heritage and no

one generation has the right to use them
3,

up.

¥ The question Of preservation of open
spaces was the topic for discussion at a
workshop session of the American In-
stitute Of Planners. A number of ques-
tions were posed and discussed, and the
following statements indicate the c011-
sensus Of Opinion regarding some:

1. Should public Open Spaces be con-

sidered as vacant lands subject tO a
“higher use” if one appears?
Answer: Public open spaces when being
used for a beneficient purpose or held
for such use in the near future, for uses
which require open out-Of-dOor space,
must not be considered as vacant land,
for there can be no higher use than
beneficial out-of-dOOr activities.

2. Under what circumstances should
open reservations be subject to military
(and restricted) uses?

Answer: Public land reservations fOr
beneficial out-of-dOor activities should
not be appropriated for military pur-

poses except in a grave national emer-
gency, and should be returned in its

original condition within one year or
less after the emergency is past.

3. Should public buildings be placed
JUNE 1957

in public parks?

Answer: Only such public buildings as
are necessary for the fulfillment of thc
primary purposes Of parks, playgrounds,
reservations should be permitted. All
others should be strictly excluded and
should be on their own sites, properly
located for ease of public access and
use.
4. Should existing public open spaces
be appropriated for school huildings?
Answer: See answer to Question 3. In

the new design called park—schools, pro-
viding for a close cooperation between

park board and school board, the school
building and its accessory areas should
be added to and not subtracted from any
existing play park tO which it will be
adjacent.

5. Should expressways fO°r multiple-

type trafiic be located in existing park-
ways or through park lands in order to
save land and construction costs or to
simplify engineering?
Answer: This is a most serious issue
facing our urban people. Admitting thc
grave necessity of expressways into and
through urban areas, they must be lo-
cated where they will be most conven-
ient and effective. Cost is definitely a
secondary consideration. And shifting
location to save a few thousand dollars
hy using public park land is short-
sighted and stupid. However, if parks
are definitely in the line of the best
location and no other location is pos-
sible, the park board must he liberally
compensated fOr the loss of valuable
park recreation land to enablelreplace-
ment to bc'made where most needed.
Taking such land without such compen-
sation is reprehensible management.

6. Should reservoirs for irrigation,
flood control or power where a heavy
draw-down occurs in summer be placed
in existing city, state or national park
lands? 1
Answer: Irrigation, flood control or
power reservoirs where a heavy draw-
down occurs should not be located in
existing or planned park lands, unless
a grave danger exists from floods, from
drought, and if no other feasible site
can be found. Power reservoirs can be
permitted only if a power shortage is
present in the community with no other

source available, and this only if a 
draw-down of not more than two feet is H

allowed. In primitive or natural scenic
parks, of state or national governments,
none of the above can be permitted.
Only artificial lakes for recreation use
maintained at constant level are per-
nlissahle in state, county and city land-
scape parks.

7. Should so-called port or naviga-
tion districts take over lake or harbor
fronts in public park lands where pri-
vate frontage is available without re-

placing for public use an equal amount
of lake frontage within the metropolitan

area?
Answer: No.

8. Should military or veterans’ hos-

pitals be considered a higher use than
open space parks?
Answer: NO'—-both are important for
safety, health, and welfare, but a hos-
pital should be in its own specially
adapted site, which may overlook, but
not be in, public-use park land.

9. Should public agencies acquire
Open spaces in advance of needs in os-

‘tensihly growing areas?

Answer: Yes—definitely. But only in
conformity with a definite, well-con-

sidered plan for recreation areas and
among all levels of government, so that
the citizens and the courts, if necessary,
understood fully the necessity of this
advance acquisition. Requiring all new
subdivisions to allocate five to eight per
cent of land for park purposes is not
workable unless the urban authorities

can accept cash or lands to increase
ownership where needed. I

W

FOLDING

      
       

If you are on the
Board of your
Church, Lodge.
Club. School._etc..
you will be Inter-
ested in this mod-
em Folding Ban-
quet Table.

 
   
     
   
 

  
  
  

 
  
  

 AND
MONROE TRUCKS

    

Completely fin-
ished tops. re-   
sistant to most  1
serving hazards.
Used with or with-
out table cloths.

 
       
   
     
 
 

 
    

  

Write for Table and We». ' .s .
Truck Catalog and special
price discounts to institutions

W\-‘ N l. . 5'-
0 \r/
and organizations.

Monroe Co.. 181 Church St.. Colfax. Ia.

    
   

227

A
D
M
I
N
l
S
T
R
A
T
I
O
N

 

Park Acreage to Population
1930-1955

Prepared by the Research Department, A

city limits. Some of the cities covered
have large out-of-city park holdings.
Since the widely accepted standard of
one acre of park per one hundred peop'c
applies only to areas within the city
limits, it is evident that many of the
cities studied are less adequately pro-
vided with urban parks than the figures
would seem to indicate.

Table I shows the park acreage per
capita for the selected years over the
twenty-five-year period. It indicates a
considerable improvement between
1930 and 1940. In 1930 less than one
city in four met the standard of one acre
of park per one hundred people; more
than one out of five had less than one-
fifth the standard acreage. Ten years
later five more cities had achieved the

standard and only one in seven fell
below one-fifth of the standard acreage.

This gain was more apparent than real,

however, for in the decade 1930 to 194-0
the out-of—city park acreage in the
United States increased by sixty-eight
per cent and a number of the cities in
this study acquired such out-of-city

HIGHWAYS, schools, shopping centers
and many other forms of develop-
ment are competing for space in and
around almost every city in the country.
Some public officials appear to think
that the solution to the problem is to be
found in the broad expanses of our
public parks. In city after city, attempts
are being made to encroach upon park
and recreation areas. In view of the
fact that a majority of cities fall far
short of meeting any reasonable stand-
ard of park and recreation space, these
proposals represent a serious threat to
municipal welfare and accentuate the

inadequacy of available recreation op:

portunities.

The 1956 Recreation and Park Year-
book” provides information as to the
extent of park areas in American cities.
A comparison of the park acreage re-
ported by cities in 1955 with that re-
ported in earlier park studies affords an
indication of the degree to which the
acquisition of municipal parks by
American cities is keeping pace with
their population increase. Comparable
studies of municipal park acreage were
conducted by the National Recreation

Association in 1930, 1940 and 1950.
The data in this statement covers 189

cities of 10,000 population or over for
which consistent and apparently ac-
curate park acreage figures are avail-
able for the years 1930, 1940, 1950,
and 1955.

This data is expressed in terms of
park acreage per capita or the number
of persons per acre of park property.
The more peOple there are per acre,
the less adequate is the provision of
park area. In studying the tables that
follow it must be kept in mind that the
figures for municipal park acreage in-
clude properties both inside and outside

areas. .

Little change in the picture occurred
bctween 1940 and 1950 although a few
cities gained more park acreage than
population, percentage-wise. This was
counterbalanced by a relative loss in
several cities between 1950 and 1955.

For example, the same number of cities
(forty-nine or twenty-six per cent of
the group) had at least one acre of park

per one hundred population in 1955 as
in 194-0; one hundred and fourteen

cities, or sixty per cent of the total, had
at least one-half the standard acreage in
each of these years. The only consistent
advance throughout the quarter-century
was the decreasing number of cities with
less than one-tenth of the standard park
acreage—a fact that offers little basis

 

*Available from the National Recreation
Association, 8 West Eighth Street, New York

11. $2.00. for boasting.

228

 

National Recreation Association.

Table II illustrates the extent to

which cities in various populatio

TABLE I

RATIO OF PARK ACREAGE lO POPULATION.
1930. 1940. 1950. 1955

______________..___————-———'-
Number of Persons Number of Cities

per One Acre of

Park Property 1955

1930 1940 1950

__—_—_____________—————-'—_'——""—_____h
_________'_____——.——————-'_"————'———-—_

14
35
65
51

13
40
62

16
33
65
48

14
30
54
52
17
22

Under 50
50 - 100
100 - 200
200 - 500
500 - 1,000
Over 1.000

groups attained various ratios between
park acreage and population in each of
the four years covered by the study. It
therefore provides a supplement to
Table I and additional information as to
trends in the acquisition of park area.

The table indicates that several cities
in the 10,000 to 25,000 group made
relative gains in park acreage between
1930 and 1955, although there was a
slight loss between 1950 and 1955. This
is the only population group in which
the number of cities meeting the stand

ard is less than the number that have
less than one-fifth the standard acreage

Obviously a large percentage of the
total group still lack park property.

The 25,000 to 50,000 group mad:
slight gains between 1930 and 1955. bu
less than onc-sixth met the standard
Gains are also reported in several citie
of 50,000 to 100,000; thirty-seven pe
ccnt of them met the space standard
but the number doing so is less than i'
1930. Little change is noted in the citie
of 100,000 to 200,000; whereas a sligl'
slump is noted in rcccnt years in Cilif
of 200,000 to 500,000. No city ova
500,000 meets the standard and onl
one has half of the normal park acrcag:
With one exception the status is con
parable to that of 1930.

RECREATtO

TABLE 11

NUMBER OF CITIES WITH VARIOUS PARK ACREAGE PER (APITA, 1930, 1940. 1950, 1955. BY POPULATION GROUPS

 

 

Number of Cities

Number of Cities

Population Number of Persons Population -Number of Persons
Group per Acre of Park 1930 1910 1950 1955 Group per Acre of Park 1930 1940 1950 1955
Under 100 11 9 13 13 Under 100 5 6 6 5
10.000 - 25,000 100 - 200 5 15 10 9 200,000 - 500,000 100 - 200 12 10 11 9
(53 Cities) 200 - 500 14 11 16 16 (19 Cities) 200 - 500 2 3 2 5
500 & over 23 18 14 15 500 & over 0 0 0 0
Under 100 5 6 7 7 Under 100 0 0 0 0
25,000 - 50,000 100 - 200 14 13 13 14 Over 500,000 100 - 200 0 0 2 1
' (45 Cities) 200 - 500 10 13 12 1] (7 Cities) 200 - 500 6 7 4 5
500 & over 6 3 3 ‘3 500 8: over 1 0 1 1
Under 100 14 18 17 13 Under 100 44 49 53 49
50.000 - 100,000 100 - 200 12 15 15 21 All Cities (189) 100 - 200 54 65 62 .65
(35 Cities) 200 - 500 13 8 11 8 200 - 500 52 4-8 51 51
500 8: over 6 4 2 3 500 & owr 39 27 23 24
|""—‘_"'""— |
I Under 100 9 10 10 11 ' '
100.000 - 200,000 100 - 200 11 12 11 11 I
(30 Cities) | 200 - 500 7 6 6 6 -
. 500 8: over . 3 2 3 2 I

 

Table III shows the change in the
'atio of park acreage to population be-
.ween 1930 and 1955, in cities of
rarious sizes. All the groups of cities
studied increased their park acreage

'atio this period with the exception of
:hose in the 200,000-500,000 bracket, in
which only thirty-two per cent of the

:ities succeeded in acquiring propor-
:ionally more park acreage than they
gained in population. The greatest im-
provement appears to have been in the
argest cities‘, but the sampling in this
aracket was too small to be truly indic-

ative. The smallest cities ranked sec-

ond, with a decreased ratio in sixty-two
per cent of the fifty-three cities studied.

In the over-all picture, fifty-six per
cent of the cities studied improved their
park acreage ratio between 1930 and
1955. When we recall that less than one
fourth of the cities met the standard in
1930, and consider the growing appre-
ciation of the importance of recreation
and the increase of leisure in the last
quarter century, the advance is far less
than might have been expected. The
fact that nearly one-half of the cities
failed to improve their park situation
during the period indicates that the

plcture 1s far from encouraging.

TABLE III

CHANGE IN RATIO or PARK ACRE‘AGE to
POPULATION. 1930- 1955

Number of Cities
in which Park

Acreage per Capi ta

Population Number

Group of
(As of 1930) Cities
Decreased Increased

10,000 - 25,000 53 2O 33
25,000 - 50,000 35 15 20
50,000 - 100,000 45 19

100,000 - 200,000 30 ' 14

200,000 - 500,000 19 13

Over 500,000 7 _ 2

Total 189 ' 83

 

 

Table IV shows the change in ratio
of park acreage to population in each of
the three periods studied. It clearly
indicates that the great acquisitions of
property came, in general, between

1930 and 1940, when there was a na-

tion-wide tendency to acquire out-of-

per capita was even more marked in the
period between 1950 and 1955; only
three out of eight cities improved their
park status. This confirms the state-
ment in the 1956 Recreation and Park

Yearbook that less than forty-two per
cent of the 1,907 cities reporting park
and recreation areas increased their

park holdings between 1951 and 1955

inclusive, although practically all of
art—)-

city parks. During these ten years,

TABLE IV
CHANGE IN RATIO OF PARK ACREAGE TO POPULATION. I930 - 1940. I940 - 1950. I950 - 1955

__———,—___—._._——T————n—————-_-—_-_-——'—'—"——

sixty-four per cent of the cities im-
proved their ratio; eighty per cent of

. 3 1930 . 1940 1940 . 1950 1950 . 1955
those 1n the 100,000-200,000 bracket 33
. . . . . 0 Number of Cities Number of Cities Number of Cities
d1d so, and only the. eltles 1n the 200,- P032220" “5 in which Park. in which Park. in which Park.
 group lost ground. (As of 1930) 1.: DAcreangedp: Caplia “Acreaiedp: Capiia DAcreaiedp: Capt:
.. - i t - - ' at n- e- i at n-
BCEWCCH  and  fifty-seven i creacsed Changoe erezilsed creaied Clhange creased creased Cbange creased
per cent of the cities either lost acreage 10 000 _ 25 000 53 19 __ 34 27 1 25 33 1 19
or gained so greatly in population that 25,000 . 50,000 35 15 1 19 17 — 18 20 — 15
they failed to acquire suiiicient park 50,000 -100.000 45 13 1 31 28 1 16 26 4 15
acreage to compensate. The groups be-  '  :50 I: 1 2:  " g  3 1‘:
a ' 9 9 _ -' '—
tween 50,000 and 200,000 suffered the Over 500,000 7 1 _ 6 3 _ 4 4 _ 3
greatest downgrade. -————————-— ———————-———-—— --—————- —-—————
Total 189 65 3 121 108 2 79 110 8 71
The trend toward less park acreage
JUNE 1957 229

these cities increased in population. A
number of the cities reported actually
less park acreage than in 1950.

l- l- l- i-

To summarize briefly, while the pres-

ent per capita acreage is lower than in ‘

1930, this is primarily because of the
great gains between 1930 and 1940.
Since 1940, the growth in park acreage
has failed to keep pace with population
gains, and the loss was greater between
1950 and 1955 than in the preceding

decade. Only one city in four meets the

standard of one acre per hundred popu-
lation; the percentage would be even
smaller if out-of-city parks were ex-
cluded. The picture is therefore far
from satisfactory.

Many of the finest municipal park
systems in this country were largely ac-
quired during the first two or three

decades of this century, as a result of
the action of farsighted civic leaders

and city authorities. These lands were
dedicated as parks in a period when
leisure was far less abundant than it is
today, when cities were much less con-

gested and when the importance

space for recreation was less wide
recognized or urgently needed. T
people of America are enjoying t
benefits resulting from the courage a
wisdom of their fathers.

The least that people in this peri
of unprecedented prosperity can do
to preserve and protect the areas 5
aside for parks in the past. Unless
does more, and acquires much ad
tional park acreage, recreation oppo
tunities will be infinitely less adequa
in years ahead than they are today.

for the

Administrator

NOTE

Dedication of land for park use,
including recent conrt decisions.

The legal status of public park and recreation lands and
the right of authorities to dispose of them or to use them
for non-conforming purposes vary from state to state. They
also differ depending upon the method by which they are
acquired by the city. As suggested elsewhere in this issue,
it is highly important that park and recreation agencies
become familiar with the legislation and court decisions re-
lating to the status of park and recreation areas in their city.
The following cases" illustrate the diversity of opinion on
this subject.

PARK-DEDICATED PROPERTY CANNOT BE SOLD TO PRIVATE
CORPORATION: Where property has been dedicated by city
to public use as a park and such use has been continuous for
more than forty years, the city could not declare park aban-
doned and sell property to private corporation even though
proceeds of sale were earmarked for development of other
recreational areas. City Council of Augusta versus Newsome

(89 S.E. 2d 485 Georgia, October 13, 1955).

RIGHTOTO LEASE PARK FOR UNDERGROUND PARKING DENIED:
An ordinance making a lease between San Antonio, Texas,
and an individual for the purpose of deveIOping an under-
ground parking area below Travis Square was declared “in-
valid, null and void and of no force and effect whatsoever.”
In handing down this decision, the judge also held that
“though the City holds the title to Travis Park in fee sim-
ple, in its proprietary capacity, yet said park has been used

" A number of the cases werc reported in The Americrm City.

magazine.

230

as a public square or a public park for over one hundre
years, and has thereby been dedicated (by public use)
the public as a city park. . . . Having permitted Travis Squa
to become dedicated to the public for use as a public par
as hereinabove stated, and since the public is still using sa'
park as a city park, though the city acquired fee simple tit
thereto in its proprietary capacity, this title is now subje
to the rights of the public accruing by reason of the dedic
tion, and cannot be diverted to an inconsistent use. . . . F
reasons above stated the Court holds that the City Ordinanc
and lease agreement in question are invalid.”

CITY PROPERTY ACQUIRED UNDER SPECIAL STATUTE F
PARK AND HOSPITAL USE CANNOT BE SOLD: Taxpayer cou
cnjoin sale of surplus property acquired by city under statu
providing for acquisition of land for hospital and park pu]
poses only. Aldrich versus City of New York, 145 N.1’.S.
732 (Sup. Ct., Sp. Term, Queens County, October 25, 19551

EXTENSION OF RESTAURANT PARKING LOT IN PARK DENIE
ln handing down a decision in thc case involving a suit
restrain conversion of land in Central Park for a parki
lot to serve patrons of a restaurant in the park, the cou
stated: “No foot or even inch of park space is cxpcnda
in our teeIning InetrOpolis. . . . It is a sufficiently grave que‘
tion whether a half-acre of park land, shrubbery and trees—I
used by older children, and immediatelyadjacent to a mo
forInal playground for youngsters—may be sacrificed to
contemplated use of compounded dubicty, for example Ino
parking space (for eighty or more cars), for an enlarg
cocktail lounge of a plush restaurant.”

CITY PROPERTY CANNOT BE CONVEYED TO CIIARITAEI
INSTITUTIONS WITHOUT PROPER CONSIDERATION: In view ‘
the increasing requests on the part of private agencies f:
the transfer, lease or sale at a nominal fee of public propert']
this decision is significant. The court held that the City 114
no poWer to convey to a private charitable foundation pro]
erty which city owned in governmental capacity and whiol

RECREATIOI

ras concedediy worth thirty-two times the monetary consid-
ration to be received. Gritton versus City of Des Moines,

3 N17. 2d 813 (Iowa, December 13, 1955).

UTHORITY TO -DISPOSE 0F RECREATION AND PARK PROP-
TY: A tendency is apparent in some recent court deci-
ions to hold that a city has the authority to dispose of prop-
rty designated for park purposes in the absence of specific
' eds of conveyance or other constricting factor. The board
f trustees of Village of Babylon had authority to sell prop-
rty allegedly restricted for park purposes and neither deed
f conveyance nor judgmenf registering title restricted or
onditioned its use to park purposes. O’Shea versus H anse,
47 N.Y.S. 2d 792 (Sup. Ct. Sp. Term Suffolk County, No-
mber .16, 1955).

In answer to a question as to the authority of a village
ouncil to dispose of one-third of a property that was pur-

ased for a park site and recreation area but all of which .

as not considered necessary for this purpose, the legal
'ounsel of the Wisconsin League of Municipalities offered
e following opinion: “I believe that our court would
told that where a municipality has originally purchased
roperty for a public purpose, it could sell that property
0 the municipality’s best advantage when the public pur-
se was abandoned.

“There are no statutorylimitations on the right of a munic-
pality to sell property which it has acquired by purchase.

1e village, therefore, is free to sell the property in question
: the best price which it can obtain and is entitled to apply
he proceeds to any lawful municipal purpose.”

0

Effective Acquisition Plans

A successful way of acquiring park lands for rapidly
rowing suburban areas has been developed by the Mary-
and National Capital Park and Planning Commission. Its
nd reservation program requires subdividers to set aside
mark or other lands for later acquisition by the commission,
lrohibits construction on the land, forgives taxation of the
o operty during the reservation period, and then lets the
roperty revert to the subdivider, if it hasn’t been purchased
rithin a given time. The reservation period is limited to
hree years.

Although the program does not obviate the need for pur-
hasing properties for park or other public purposes in
apidly growing areas, it does give a breathing period of up
0 three years in which purchasing schedules can be de-
e10ped and carried out.

The Midland, Michigan, Planning Department has taken
teps to assure satisfactory residential park and school site
evelopments in the undeveloped land within its annexed
rea. A recent report indicated that the department had
repared preliminary plans for eight square miles of such
n area. Each square mile is proposed to be a neighborhood
with a fifteen-acre school site centrally located, parks total-
ing ten per cent of the gross area, one or two neighborhood
' opping areas, and about 1,000 to 1,200 residential lots.

UNE 1957

Potential Threat to Park and Recreation Lands

A tendency in some government circles to treat park and
recreation lands not as permanently dedicated as open space,
but rather as available for any desirable public purpose af-
fords a potential threat, the importance of which cannot be
ignored. For example, in addressing the Institute of Gov-
ernment at the University of W’ashington last summer, Dr.
Ernest H. Campbell of the university’s bureau of govern-
mental research and services stated, “Experience indicates
that, whenever possible, it is desirable for cities and other
political subdivisions to avoid acceptance of land dedicated
for ‘park purposes only,’ since best and highest use of the
land in the future may not be for parks and recreation. Also,
when conveyed with such restrictive covenant or dedicated
solely for a public park, such a restriction on use of the land
usually may be released only with consent of dedicator by
execution of a quitclaim deed by the grantor, if he is still
living, releasing the restriction; or by a specific legislative
act releasing it, or sometimes by a bona fide abandonment of
the land.

“Also, keep in mind that if a city acquires land for public
park purposes with city general funds, the city may sell for
an entirely different use if the deed by which the land was

conveyed to the city does not contain a restriction that it '

may be used only for park purposes. Also, if a city has
acquired property for public park and payment is by special
assessments levied upon the neighboring property specially
benefited by reason of acquisition and use of the property
for such purposes, the owners thus assessed may, in a proper
case, prevent the property from being used in a manner that
would destroy its use and enjoyment for the purposes for
which it was acquired.” I

ENGRAVING FRE

On All Trophies Purchased From
W
SAVINGS OF

20% to 40%

TROPHIES - MEDALS - PLAQUES

FREE CATALOG .

W TROPHY SALES, INC. ,

75 w. Van Buren St. Dept. c—s Chicago, Illinois 

  

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

Subscription rates for RECREATION magazine are:

1 year . . . . . . . . $4.00
2 years . . . . . . . 7.25

Library
subscriptions . . 3.70

Foreign . . . . . . . $4.50
Club subscriptions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33.50

(Ten or more individuals subscribing at one time)
Single issues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .50

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION, 8 W. Eighlh 51., New York 11. N. Y.

 

231

    
     
     
   
     

A
D
M
|
N
l
S
T
R
A
T
I
O
N

 

COURT DECISIONS resulting
from accidents occurring
in tnunicipally-owned swim-
ming pools have been handed
down in many states. The nature
of the decision varies not only

 

circumstances sur-
rounding the accidents, but also with the attitude of the

with the

court as to the nature of the function performed. The fol-
lowing brief comments with reference to several court cases
serve as illustration:

In an address before the Kansas Beach and Pool Confer-
ence, sponsored by the University of Kansas, Albert B. Mar-
tin, director of research of The League of Kansas Municipali-
ties, cited the following decisions:

In the case. of Gilliland versus City of Topeka and J.
Torsney, 124 Kansas, 726 (1928), a privately operated swim-
ming pool, with sloping bottom and equipped with a diving
platform, springboards, bathhouse and other accessories,
was located in a city park. No lifeguard was on duty. A six-
year-old child was drowned while attending a Sunday school

picnic. The parents sued the city and the pool Operator but

lost. It was held that:
A swimming pool in a public park of a city, constructed

of concrete and equipped with the usual swimming pool ac-

eessories, is not a nuisance, although attractive to children.

In Sroufe versus Garden City, 148 Kansas, 874 a swim-
ming pool was being repaired. The grating was left off a
drain and the pool was being used without a lifeguard on
duty. A fourteen-year-old boy apparently was caught in the
suction of the drain and held under water until he drowned.
-It was held that the city was engaged in a government func-
tion, the pool was not an attractive nuisance, and the city
was-not liable.

The court came to a different conclusion as to a lease
agreement in Shoemaker versus City of Parsons, 154 Kansas,
378 (1941). Here the city provided watcr, electric current
and chemicals and received fifty per cent of lllC gross receipts.
A man broke his neck diving into the pool. The city and the
lessces were sued. The court held for the city but against
the lcssees on the ground that under the agreement they
were independent contractors and not agents of the city as
in the other cases. The court said that the agreement was
along the idea of the Swan case below. The question was not
raised as to the validity of the lease. This case and the others
show that the terms of the agreement can be important to
the party entering into an agreement with the city.

An earlier case presented a different problem. Swan versus
Riverside Bathing Beach Company, 128 Kansas, 230 (1929) .
Here the city of Indepcndence cntered into an agreement
with the Riverside Bathing Company whereby the company
was permitted to build and operate a swimming pool in a
city park. The city leased the necessary land to the com-

232

Court Decisionsl

pany. A nine-year-old girl was killed at the pool and tl1
parents sued the company. The company defended upor
the ground that the pool was a government function of th

city and as the city was immune the company was immune
The court said not:

The immunity of a city from liability for negligence in the
performance of its governmental functions is not imputed ‘
to one who, under the contract referred to in the opinion, con-
structs and operates for profit a swimming pool on land leased ‘

from the city, so as to relieve him from liability for his own
negligence.

The company was not held an employee of the city.
The question whether the lease was valid was not raised
and probably it would have made no difference in this case
It would appear that the holdings relating to swimmin
pools and ponds or lakes in city parks would apply to lake
in county and township parks. A number of counties hav
parks in which there are lakes but it appears there han

been no decisions because of injuries or deaths occurrinq
at such lakes.

 

It is certain such lakes are not attractive
nuisances; they are attractive but they are not nuisances am'

it would appear that government immunity would attach to.
the counties and townships.

    
   
 
   
  
   
 
 
 
 

The Tennessee Statc Planning Commission, in a bulleti
citing a numbcr of court decisions relating to mnnicipa
liability for accidents, listed the case of Vaughn versu
City ofAlcoa, 251 3.1V. (2:!) 304 (Tennessee, 1952). A life
guard at a city-owned and ~operated pool negligently al
lowed a nine-year-old child who was using the pool as
paying customer to drown. The city invited both resident
and non-residents of the city to use the pool and realized .
profit from the operations.

The plaintiff alleged that the city in operating the poo
was acting in a proprietary capacity and thus was liabl
lie also alleged that the city- was liable because of the [as
clear chance doctrine which is based upon the theory tha
the defendant is negligent in not extricating the plaintiff fror
his place of danger after it is discovered, notwithstandii
the fact that the plaintiff was guilty of contributory negli
gcnce in placing himself in danger. It was also stated th:

:3
H

maintenance of the pool was an attractive nuisance and th
because it created and maintained a nuisance. the city wa
liable.

The decision stated in part:

In this State a municipality is liable in damages for torts
to its citizens only if it was negligent in the operation of one
of its prOprietary functions as distinguished from its govertb
mental functions or if it created or maintained a nuisance in
the performance of one of its governmental functions.

. . . Public parks, playgrounds, swimming pools and public
golf courses are all examples of municipal functions under-
taken for the public benefit. and are under our decisions con-
ducted by the City in its governmental capacity as distinguished
from its proprietary capacity.

RECREATION:

Affecting Swimming Pools

In commenting on the effect of the charging of a fee the
court held:

The manner in which the details of the business of paying
for the right to operate the pool is managed is not the control-

ling element.
As for the last clear chance doctrine, it held that:

It can have no application in this case because liability of
the City is denied on the ground that the City cannot be held
for negligence of its officers in the operation of a governmental
function.

The court further held that the attractive nuisance doc-
trine does not hold in the case, since coUrts have held it
“not applicable to injuries incurred in public parks, be-
cause trespass is the basic requirment of an attractive nuis-
ance and since those using the swimming pool or park were
not induced there by the attractive condition of the thing.”
It was therefore held that the city was not creating or main-
taining a nuisance in the pool.

Different conditions and a different decision was reached
in the case of Williams versus Town of M orristown, et. al.
222 S.W. (2d) 607 (Tennessee, 1949). The court held that
“Where Town permitted people to use area surrounding
reservoir of Town’s water works system for picnic purposes,
area was not ‘public park’ and when nine-year-old girl
drowned in‘ reservoir, Town could not escape liability on
ground that she lost her life in public park operated by
Town in its governmental capacity.” The decision stated:

The operation of an electrical power system or a water works
system is a corporate or private function of a municipality.

If a municipal enterprise is Operated for profit it is a
proprietary undertaking, but it does not follow necessarily
that It IS a governmental undertakiug if it is not operated for
profit.

Where person injured by dangerous condition is a child of
tender years, land owner will be liable for injuries (negligence)
sustained by her although child is trespasser if condition was
such that it constituted an attractive nuisance to the child.

Where area surrounding pool in town water system had been
frequented for many years by children attending picnics,
and danger in pool was exceptional due to deceptive depth
because of clear water, and treacherous because of sloping
floor, and walls, and slick moss on them and there were no
warning signs, guards or fences around, pool constituted at-
tractive nuisance and town was liable for death of child who
drowned in pool, even though child was trespasser.

The Wisconsin Park and Recreation Society News Bulletin
records the case of Virovatz versus Cudahy (1933), 211
Wisconsin 357. The case involved a child who was drowned
while bathing in a natural pool or pond in a municipal park.
It was alleged that the pool was an unfit and unsafe place for
swimming and bathing; that it was a nuisance and immedi-
ately dangerous to the life and health of those who swam
therein for the reason that the bottom of the pool was rolling
and was of uneven depth and contour, contained large step-
offs and was composed of thick and heavy mud.

JUNE 1957

The court held that a municipality while engaged in
operating and maintaining a public swimming pool is per-
forming a government function and will not be liable for the
negligence of its agents, employees or officers. As long as the
village does not operate a swimming pool for its pecuniary
advantage, it would be operating in a government capacity.
However, if someone is injured or killed because of (a de-
feet in construction of the pool itself or the bathhouse or
other structures used in connection with use of the pool, a
possibility of liability exists under the safe place statute.

In the Cudahy case, because the pool was a natural pond
involving no construction, the court assumed that the safe
place statute would require that it be maintained in a safe
condition.

In Feirn versus Shorewood Hills (1948), 253 Wisconsin
418, 34 N.W. (2d) 107, a girl slipped and was injured on a
swimming pier consisting of a board walk and a board plat-
form supported by wooden posts, with a wooden bench, div-
ing board and observation tower. It was alleged that the
village was negligent in failing to treat the wood platform to
prevent it from becoming water-soaked and slippery and in
failing to provide a suitable material to cover the slippery
surface.

The court said that in view of the nature and manner of
construction, and the village’s use of the pier and platform
as a place of public resort and occupancy, it was clearly a
structure and a public building within the safe place statute.
Thus the village was held liable for negligence for failing to
keep the pier and platform in safe condition.

According to Public Works, October 1956, the case of
0rrison versus City of Rapid City, South Dakota, 74 N. W.

(2d) 489, was an action by a patron of a municipal swim-
ming pool for injuries sustained when she stepped on a
broken bottle in the dressing room.

The jury gave her a verdict of $1,000, and the city ap-
pealed. Among other things, it was claimed that Rapid City,
as a city, was immune from suit.

The holding of the appellate court, however, was that
even though the Rapid City might be a city, it still did not
have the immunity of a city, because the operation'of a
swimming pool is a proprietary function rather than a gov-
ernment function. This was so even though the city offered
to prove that it was losing money on the operation of the
swimming pool. Since it was found by the jury that the city
had been negligent in its operation of the dressing room, the
city was liable.

The above is a good example of the rapidly changing
picture of municipally operated recreation facilities from

government to proprietary function and its resultant lia-
bility. I

233

A
D
M
l
N
l
S
T
R
A
T
I
O
N

 

PER

So-NN

|
E L

_____—r__

SECOND NATIONAL INSTITUTE

FOR

RECREATION EXECUTIVES

The Second National Institute in Rec-
reation Administration will be held at
the National Recreation Congress in
Long Beach, California, October 2-3,
1957. This year the theme is “Organi-
zational Teamwork and Creative Lead-
ership.” The faculty will be specialists
in leadership and personnel develop-
ment from leading corporations who
will serve as resource persons and spe-
cial instructors.

There will be demonstrations of new
methods of creativity in organizational
operations. Methods in dealing with
specific problems will be demonstrated.
Special attention will be given to:

0 Integrating and motivating for effec-
tive performance.

0 Administrative experience and les-
sons from outstanding executives in rec-
reation and other fields.

0 Development of creative leadership.
0 Solution of specific problems—prob—
lem clinic for application and testing
principles discussed.

0 Demonstration of new methods of
creativity in organizational and admin-
istrative teamwork.

The Institute has been carefully de-
signed to include twelve clock-hours in
order to meet college and university re-
quirements. Those interested in having
academic credit may do so. Candid-ates
themselves will be responsible for nego-
tiating personally with the institution of
their choice.

The Institute’s fitting location is the
Long Beach Municipal Recreation Cen-
ter. This interesting and attractive fa-
cility is near the sea, just a stone’s throw
from Congress headquarters and all ac-
tivities. Although the location is in the
heart and center of all Congress affairs
the center will be reserved exclusively

MR. SUTHERLAND is the director of the
NRA Recreation Personnel Service.

234

for the Institute, and will provide com-
plete privacy.

Registration and enrollment will be
limited to one hundred executives based
on regional quotas. Applications will
be accepted in the order they are re-
ceived, with careful consideration given
to geographical balance and representa-
tion. Special certificates designed by an
artist from the Long Beach Recreation
Department will be presented to those
attending the Institute.

The twelve-dollar registration fee in-
cludes a kit of materials especially pre-
pared for the Institute. This will have
documents on the administrative pat-

' tern of Long Beach dealing with the

“Acquisition and Financing of Facili-
ties,” “School-Community Relation-
ships.” “Program Evaluation,” “Crea-
tivity Techniques in Administration,”
and possibly some of the material on
recreation now being (lechOped for the
Annals of the American Academy of
Political and Social Science.

The Institute Committee is as follows:

Dr. Paul F. Douglass, Washington,D.C.,
coordinator; Robert W. Crawford, Phil-

adelphia, chairman; John L. Hutchin-
son, Columbia University; Raymond T.
Forsberg, Waterloo, Iowa; IIoward
Holman, Fresno, California; Raymond
Kinlbell, San Francisco; Norman John-
son and William Frederiekson, J r., Los
Angeles; Frank Harnett, Long Beach,

California; and W. C. Sutherland, NRA,

secretary.

Every effort is being made to make
this an outstanding experience for those
executives interested in personal growth
and further professional development
and preparation. Last year many recrea-
tion commissions and managing author-
ities encouraged their executives to at-
tend and paid the Institute fee. It is be-
lieved that most of the executives at-

tending this year will again have their

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

‘V. C. Sutherland

registration fees paid for by their re-
spective departments. This is an un-
usual opportunity since those planning
to attend the Congress anyway will not
have additional travel and living ex-
penses. The intensive period of training
at the Institute will be supplemented by
special Congress sessions dealing with
personnel and administrative problems.

Recreation executives from thirty-
four states and six foreign countries
attended the Institute last year. Those
desiring to attend this year should
secure application and registration
forms promptly by writing to the Ad-'
missions Committee, National Recrea-
tion Association, 8 West Eighth Street,
New York 11. I

 

.“-"...““1

Wed @ax 4nd /)ec'ae
5am 77(66 . . .

W hat Lovely Prises
You “’0th Get
Records, Agreed, Aren't

Record Yet!

The heavenly priced, gold-plated tro-
phies you select are moulded of finest
art metal and can be mounted on bases
of your choice . . . genuine onyx, or
the Italian marble . . . beautiful as the

marble in Villa d'Este. Send for your
FREE 40-Page Catalog today.

jewelry and award co.

220 Fifth Ave., N. Y.

Paton l

I
II
1

m\

u

l

l

g 0

u 0

g u

l

: Easily Set, l

i B at T/zeirs’s The Best E

. :

: :

: :

: :

: :

u 0

: :

u u
u

l :

l

u

l

u

l

f

L.

 

 

Haematme

 

MORE THAN

100,000

u. S. SCHOOLS AND COLLEGES EACH YEAR SPECIFY

America’s Finest Sports Equipment by
}W}1}}-}

NEW YORK

RONALD Books for Camping Fun . . .
C A M P I N G

11 DANVILLE, ILL. - Los ANGELES 11

 

ARTHUR H. DESGREY. Shows how to make life out of doors comfortable,
zestful, and safe. Reliable guidance on preparations, water supply, protec-
tion, desirable camp sites, sanitation, camp peSts, first aid, cooking, etc.

53 photographs.
CANOE

$3
CAMPING

CARLE WALKER HANDEL. How to plan a canoe camping trip filled with
a maximum of excitement and good fun. Gives an expert's tips on food,
equipment, packing and portaging, etc. A special chapter on the outfits

needed by the fly or bait fisherman

and the hunter. 167 drawings. $3

 

The Junior Book of CAMPING and WOODCRAFT

BERNARD S. MASON. For the young outdoorsman who wants to learn the
way of the woods. Teaches by word and picture the handling of jack-
knife, ax, and saw; making camp beds; pitching tents; choosing the right

wood and laying a fire; etc. 315 photos, shelches. 81/2 x 11.

The Book of INDIAN

Also by MASON. A beautifully illustrated Study of the American Indian
emphasizing his crafts and customs. Detailed instruCtions for making
reproductions of war-bonnets, ceremonial garments, and equipment. 620
photos, drawings. 8% x 10%.

Dances and Stories of
the American Indian

MASON. .Preserving the
American Indians' d a n c e s ,
this book includes 68 authen-
tic examples and the fasci-
nating stories behind them.
Fully illustrates basic steps,
costumin g, and properties es-
sential to recapturing the
Indian ritual and routine.

I40 ills., 3 musical scores.
7 x 10. $5

 

Order your books from:

 

'rI-IE RONALD PRESS COMPANY

 

15 [an 261h 51., New York 10

JUNE 1957

$3.50

 

-CRAFTS and COSTUMES

$5

 

 
  

START ’EM SAILING!

Gordon C. Aymar. Designed to teach
the novice how to sail a small boat.

106 ills. $2.50

RIDING SIMPLIFIED *

Margaret Cahell Self. Practical advice
on how to become a skilled horseman.

53 ills. $1.95
KITES*

II. Waller Fowler, Jr. Complete in-

structions on a fascinating hobby for
young and old. 70 ills. $1.95

ROPING *

Bernard S. Mason. The elements of
roping for the beginner and the en-

thusiast. Special attention given to the
lariat. 81 ills. $1.95

 

 

 
  
  
  
 

 

  
   
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
   

   

  
 

 

*Books in the Barnes
SPORTS LIBRARY

 

 
 

:-

i-f‘, " for every
 RECREATION

pie ACTIVITY
.I: _ . .

 
  
    

 For every sound reproducrion
A '. application in recreation halls,

'- gyms, auditoriums, or summer
camps, the Newcomb R-16CV
does the job better, yet weighs
less than 22 pounds. A separate
microphone and phonograph

' '_ volume control permits mixing
recorded music with the micro-
phone presentation. Variable
speed control allows variable
tempo and pitch (from any basic
speed setting). A quality heat

and humidity resistant high

, fidelity ceramic pickup is encased
- _ in a professional-type tone arm.

' Balanced-design amplifier with
inverse feedback in combination
 with a line ten-inch extended
range speaker give quality you'd
never expect at its price. Newcomb
is the "sormd of quality since

- 1937”. . . recognized by leading

., school authorities from coast

, r In} coast to coast.

ii We? 1 _ _. _.__ i

r I”. "I A 1 A  
in} we,” a..— ‘v-f}

I . ‘ ., f-Iih .2 ‘?. A.
,  1....-." __.‘_.-—

h‘ NEWCOMB VARIABLE SPEED

' "  Exclusive Newcomb design gives
.3 dependable continuously variable

a: control at all 3 speeds.

4e

 

 
  

  
  
  

Audio Products Co., Dept. 2-6
6824 Lexington AIL, Hollywood 38, Callf.
E] Send free catalog of Newcomb '
portable sound equrpment.

[3 Send name of our nearest
Newcomb distributor.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 235

 

 

 

O LeatherOn, a thin
slice of genuine, tan-
ned pigskin leather,
can be applied to
wood, metal, ceramic
and plastic surfaces
as easily as wall pa-
per, giving these sur-
faces the rich color
of leather and a high-
-- - ly appealing pigskin
grain. Although too thin and pliable for making billfolds
and other leather products which require stiffness, Leather-
0n can be used in a multitude of projects, ranging from
book covers and animal cutouts to personalized jacket
patches and rugged-looking identification labels for suitcases
and bicycles. Hunting Interiors, 1422 Lake Drive S.E.,
Grand Rapids, Michigan. (Ask for Bulletin 323.)

 

O A new all-weather fan-shaped backboard and goal is an
economical play unit designed especially for backyards,
school yards or playgrounds. The backboard is fabricated
from one-piece double-laminated oil-tempered Presdwood,
developed primarily for outdoor service. It will not rust or
corrode and is protected from moisture and weather with
two coats of non-glare outdoor white enamel. The back-
board is pre-drilled to accommodate a special heavy one-half
inch goal. This special goal is finished in bakcd-enamel reg-
ulati'on orange and comes complete with necessary mount-
ing hardware and twelve “No-Tie" net holders. Rawlings

Sporting Goods Company, 2300 Delmar Boulevard, St.
Louis 3.

0 Recreation di-
rectors can con-
d u c t a p l a y-
ground-wide teth-
erball contest
without echnse
by means of a spe-
cial package,
available on re-
quest, which con-
tains necessary
prizes, announce-
ments, publicity releases, rules and instruction. Tetherball,
a game designed primarily for schools and playgrounds, re-
quires no other equipment than a ten-foot-pole, a tetherball
and enough space for a twenty-foot circle.

In the West, tetherball is one of the most popular games
on elementary school grounds and playgrounds. In other
sections of the country where the game is not so well known,

236

NEWS

 

    
  
  
  
  

I f you are interested in any 0/
these products, write directly t
the manufacturer at the addres
given. PLEASE mention that yo
read about it on RECREATION
magazine’s Market News page.

a contest provides a perfect introduction. For further infor-
mation about the free kit, write Tetherball, W. J. Voit Rub-
ber Corp., Box 3068, Terminal Annex, Los Angeles 54-.

O A featherweight float made of styrofoam supports fifty-
five pounds per cubic foot and won’t sink, rust, rot, mold or
deteriorate. There is nothing to puncture or leak; it won’t
attract or sustain marine life, rodents or pests and has no
odor——-wet or dry. The float is immune to temperature
changes from below zero to over 170 degrees; salt water has
no effect on it, and it won’t absorb either salt or fresh water.

The Styrofloat measures 6’x10’ and weighs 596 pounds.
It is built of good grade spruce or fir in a blockliouse design
with oak skids. The styrofoam is competely protected and
all metal parts are galvanized to resist corrosion. Each unit
comes with one mooring ring and one mooring cleat. Twol
or more units may be joined together in any shape or patternl

to perform as one float. Hussey Manufacturing Company.
I nc., North Berwick, Maine.

0 Tite-Roper is a
new piece of play-
ground equip-
ment developed to
satisfy the child’s
natural love for
testing his balanc-
ing ability. lt con-
sists of a twenty-
foot steel cable
suspended, six-
teen inches above
the ground, be-

tween two plat-
forms. Tite-Roper is ruggcdly constructcd—thc sturdy pla
forms have a step and handrails; the cable is threc-quartcrs

of an inch in diameter. According to the manufacturer, th
equipment can remain in continuous use without any kind 0
maintenance. Wise Engineering Company, 165 Delancy
Street, Ncwark 5, New Jersey.

 

Q Are your files a matter of hide and scek? Transparent
index tabs of pressure-sensitive acetate arc now prc-printcd
in eightecn different standard sets—alphabetical, numerical
wbookkceping, monthly, daily and geographical, and so on.
Each set has a distinctive color bar for easy color-coding.
Ready to attach, the tabs require no cutting, inserting or
moistening by uscrs and thus pcrmit attachment in a mattcr.‘
of seconds. Prcssuorc-scnsitive coating adheres immcdiatcly
to thick or thin materials including acetate sheet protcctors.I
Superior-Tabbies, Inc., Department 353, Room 954, 131
South Franklin Street, Chicago 6.

   

RECREATION "

     
       
   
         
     
     
   
   
     
   
       
     
 
   
  

* THREE IMPORTANT
Macaw-am! GUIDES

for Recreation Leaders and Teachers

THE SARGENT GUIDE
TO
SUMMER CAMPS

12th Edition

A compact guide that provides all the basic
statistics for the intelligent choice of an ap-
propriate summer camp. Listings by type,
athletic specialty, trips and remedial instruc-
tion. Complete information on fees, adminis-
tration, and facilities.

 

 

 

PLAY ACTIVITIES FOR
BOYS AND GIRLS

A Guide for Teachers, Parents, and Recrea-

tion Leaders Rea&f (In. Irate

160 Pages By RICHARD KRAUS, Columbia University
32-20 ClOth This new book of timely interest describes the underlying
$1.10 paper values of youthful play, and gives examples of successful

play programs. It gives many Specifically helpful sugges-
tions and guides for working with groups of children as
well as clearly-written directions for a wide variety of activ-
ities including active and inactive games; musical play and
singing; folk and creative dancing; arts and crafts; and
dramatics. Recent advances on play programs and up-to-
date material on childhood development are included.

*‘kir

RECREATION LEADER’S

IIANDBOOK
By RICHARD KRAUS. Series in Health Ed-

ucation, Physical Education and Recreation. 312
pages, $5.75

This outstanding work provides a practical, down-to-earth
discussion of social leadership objectives and techniques
applied to the recreation needs of groups of all sizes and
ages. It covers the background of social recreation in this
country, the role of recreation in everyday life, leadership
objectives and techniques in working with recreation
groups, and a wide variety of time-tested acceptable ma-
terials. There is an extensive treatment of program plan-
ning to meet the needs of different types of groups.

THE BIG RED BOOK

THE HANDBOOK OF PRIVATE SCHOOLS
38th Edition

For half a century the complete objective
survey of independent education. Staff writ-
ten, the HANDBOOK has become a by-word
among educators for up-to-date accuracy and
dependability.
1216 pages
$8.00 cloth

PORTER SARGENT PUBLISHER

11 BEACON STREET, BOSTON 8, MASS.

 

* 1k ir
l anciweaver mmmmmmmw
8' craftsman  A Guide to II ts Organization and Administration
— ..-r_ - By JACKSON M. ANDERSON, National In-
F  dustrial Recreation Association. Series in Health

Education, Physical Education, and Recreation.

PROJECTS 304 Pages, $5.00

The first complete book on the increasingly important

  subject of industrial recreation. It is intended as a guide
to recreation directors in administering employee rec-

 reation programs, and for those who wish .to study its .or-
ganization and administration. In addition to specific

recommendations on manning and initiating a program,

 its activities, leadership and financing, there is a thorough

discussion of the history of employee recreation and its

 benefits to industrial relations.

USE THIS COUPON
Single Copies 31-00 COLLEGE DEPARTMENT, McGRAW-HILL BOOK COMPANY, Inc.
330 West 42nd Street, New York 36, N. Y.

Please send me, on approval, a copy of the book(s) checked. 1 agree to pay
for the hook(s) upon receipt of invoice or return the hook(a) within 19 days.

[:I PLAY ACTIVITIES FOR BOYS AND GIRLS

C] RECREATION LEADER‘S HANDBOOK

I

I

ublished Quarterly — 64 Informative Pages :
I

[j INDUSTRIAL RECREATION :

I

I

I

I

I

Write today for brochure and prices on back issues.

- subscription to Handweaver & Craftsman and a complete file

I back issues  provide you with a live weaving library, Name . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
.- Addresa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .; . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Handweaver &   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Zone . . . . .. State . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

It e . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . u . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . o . o o o o . . . . . . . . - .-

DEPT. R, 246 FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK 1

Aiiiliation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . R657

McGraw-Hiil BOOK COMPANY, Inc.

Single copy 31, 1 yr. $4, 2 yrs. $7.50, 3 yrs. $10, 5 yrs. $15

Canadian pastage 50c year extra, Pan American and foreign $1

330 West 42nd Street, New York 36, N. Y.

 

 

JUNE 1957 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 237

 

. . . . . . CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING . . . . . .

COPY: Type — or clearly print — your

RATES: Words in regular type $.15 each
message and the address to which you

DEADLINES: Copy must be received by
Words in boldface type $.25 each

the fifth of the month preceding date of

Minimum ad accepted  $3.00

wish replies sent. Underline any words
you want to appear in boldface type.

the issue in which ad is desired.

Send copy with remittance to: RECREATION Classified Advertising, 8 West Eighth Street, New York 11, New Yo'rk.

HELP WANTED

Qualified Counselors over 20 for delux
Santa Barbara Girls camp: ritiery, drama,
modern dance, CIT Director, Unit leader,
General. $200 min.—8 weeks. Virginia
Earnes, 2535 Fordham, Palo Alto, Cali-
orn1a.

Recreation Leaders wanted. New World-
Wide Summer Placement Directory lists
1000's of summer jobs in 48 states, 20 for-
eign lands. Resorts. camps. earning trips
abroad. study awards. etc. Rush $2.00 now.
Ezruipdgg R, Box 99, Station G, Brooklyn

POSITIONS WANTED

Recreation Director institution or Assist—
ant Director community program. Two
years experience. 50-mile radius of New
York City. Available September 1957.
Write full details to Apt. 21-B, 611 West
171st Street, New York 32, N. Y.

The publisher assumes no responsibility [or services or items advertised here.

Books & Pamphlets

Received

 

CHURCHES AND JUVENILE DELINQUENCY,
THE, Robert and Muriel Webb. As-

soeiation Press, 291 Broadway, New

York 7. Pp. 64. $.50.

CLAY, WOOD AND W1RE—A How-To-DO-
It Book of Sculpture, Harvey Weiss.
William R. Scott, 8 West 13th Street,
New York 11. Pp. 48. $3.50.

COME BOATING WITH ME, Percy Wood-
cock. Sport Shelf, 10 Overlook Ter-
race, New York 33. Pp. 142. $3.00.

CRUISING BOATS WITHIN YOUR BUDGET,
John J. Benjamin. Harper & Broth-
ers, 49 East 33rd Street, New York
16. Pp. 229. $4.00.

DESIRABLE PRACTICES FOR THE ADMIN-
ISTRATION OF CONSOLIDATED MUNICI-
PAL PARK AND RECREATION DEPART-
MENTS, Serena E. Arnold. American
Institute of Park Executives, OglelJay
Park, Wheeling, West Virginia. Pp.
31. $1.00.

DIRECTORY OF CAMPS FOR THE HANDI-
CAPPED. American Camping Associa-
tion, Bradford Woods, Martinsville,
Indiana. Pp. 61. 8.50.

FOLK DANCING, Grace 1. Fox and Kath-
leen Gruppe Merrill. Ronald Press, 15
East 26th Street, New York 10. Pp.
89. $3.50.

FORMS AND PATTERNS IN NATURE, Wolf
Straehe. Pantheon Books, 333 Sixth
Avenue, New York 14. Pp. 22 (plus
88 full-page plates) . $7.50.

GAMES AND STUNTS FOR ALL OCCASIONS

' (Revised Edition), William P. Young
and Horace J. Gardner. J.B. Lippin-
eott, East Washington Square, Phila-
delphia 5. Pp. 120. $2.50.

GAMES FOR THE NOT—SO-YOUNG, Sid G.
Hedges. Philosophical Library, 15
East 410th Street, New York 16. Pp.

238

 

 

106. $2.75.
GAME PLAYS OF BASEBALL, THE, Al Ni-
emiee. Craftsman Press, 2030 West-

lake Avenue, Seattle 1. Pp. 58. Paper
$2.00.

I WANT TO BE A FISHERMAN, Carla
Greene. Childrens Press, Jackson
Boulevard and Racine Avenue, Chi-
cage 7. Unpaged. $2.00.

ON THE TRAIL OF VANISIIING BIRDS,
Robert Porter Allen. MeGraleill,
330 West 42nd Street, New York 36.
Pp. 251. $4.50.

ORNITHOLOGISTS’ GUIDE, THE, H. P. W.
Hutson, Editor. Philosophical Li-
brary, 15 East 40th Street, New York
16. Pp. 275. $10.00. '

PIIYLIS (Baseball Fantasy), Ted Key.
E. P. Button 8' Company, 300 Fourth
Avenue, New York 10. Pp. 59. $1.95.

SEA TREASURE—A GUIDE TO SHELL

COLLECTING, Kathleen Yerger J ohns-
tone. Houghton Mifl’lin Conipany, 2
Park Street, Boston 7. Pp. 242. $4.00.
YMCA SWIMMlNG MANUAL (1956 Re-
vision), National Council of Young
Men’s Christian Associations of Can-

ada, 15 Spadina Road, Toronto 4,
Ontario. Pp. 72. 3.50.

Magazine Articles

ARTS AND ACTIVITIES, April 1957
The Magic Formula (Seulpturing
material) , Lucile Jenkins
, M ay 1957
Why Shed Creativity in the Summer?
Alex Pickens.
CAMPING MAGAZINE, March 1957
Hosteling—lts Place in Your Camp
Program, F rank W. Harris.
Some Current Developments in
Algae Control.
, April 1957,
Conservation Projects for Camp,
Janet Nickelsburg.
Get Off to a Good Start with Basie

   

 

Pre-Canip Training, [Marvin Rife.

Safari—An Adventure in the Out of

Doors, Herbert F .K. Klinger.

Some Basie ABC’s for Evaluating

Your Camp Program, Daniel F ein-
berg.

JOURNAL OF HEALTH, PHYSICAL EDUCA-
tion, RECREATION, March 1957
Indoor Drills and Conditioning for a

Baseball Squad, Robert M. Wren-
Mountain Recreation, Frederick Bier-
haus.

, May-June 1957

Outdoor Recreation Areas—A Sym-
posium. n

 

School Camping is Rewarding for Re- {

tarded Children, Edgar A. Taylor,

J r.
PARK MAINTENANCE, May 1957
Hamilton County’s Winton Woods
Archery Center, Melvin J. Reblzol:
and George Helwig.
Operation Outdoors is Forest Service
Answer to Camping Public.
You Can Expect Strieter Codes for
Swimming Pools.
SAFETY EDUCATION, May 1957
Counselors and Helpers in Summer
Camps (Safety Education Data
Sheet #80) .
SPORTS ILLUSTRATED, March 11. 18,
25, April I, 15, I957
The Modern Fundamentals of Golf
(in five parts), Ben Hogan.
, April 15, 1957
Special 1957 Baseball lssue.
, April 29, I 95 7
The Great U.S. Pool Boom, F red R.
Smith and 10 A hern.
SWIMMING POOL AGE, April 195?
The Latest in Indoor-Outdoor Pool
Design.
New J ersey’s First “Pool Clinic"
Great Sueeess.
Teaching Tiny Tots to Swim, Ray
Taylor.
, May 1957
Articles on swimming pool Operation
and maintenance.

 

 

 

RECREATlON

l

 

Camping *

Barbara Ellen Joy. Burgess Publish-
ing Company, 426 South Sixth Street,
Minneapolis l5. Pp. 85. Paper $2.75.

The author, formerly owner and di-
rector of the Joy Camps, former presi-
dent of the American Camping Associ-
ation and now a camp consultant, is
very well-known in the camping field.
Even if not, however, it would be possi-
ble for anyone to see that this book was
written by someone to whom camping
is a personal experience. No one but a
real “practitioner” could bring out these
small details, the intimate information.

No one book can give all the an-
swers. If this reviewer could place only
one book in the hands of a new camp
director, however, it would be this one.
Why? Not because of the information
in it, although this information is sound,
but because of this book’s open-mind-
edness, its questioning philosophy, its
refusal to go blindly along with every
new concept without looking ahead to
see possible results.

It dares to question, to refute, to
analyze——even to quarrel with and dis-
agree—but always without thehintru-
sion of personal feelings, and always
with the basic objective of the right of
every child to be an individual.

The author’s interest in the individ-
ual is the key to this book. “. . . This

concept is that the camping experience
should develop the individual child,”

CUTE TOY ANIMALS

FROM ECONOMICAL

WOOL YARN

Be one of the first
to teach this fosci-
noting new art of
wool sculpture for
fun and profit.

 

  
 
  
 

ADJUSTABLE cots squirrels ele
100'“ phonts, monkeys
COMES l and other animals

PACKAGED using the cheaper
WITH grodes of wool.
300K More than 150 eosy-

to-follow, step-by-
step line drowings and photos.

BOOK AND LOOM, ONLY $2.75
THE SHADOW BOX

1378 E. 8th St., Brooklyn 30, N. Y.

 

JUNE 1957

Moke robbits, dogs, *

Covering the Leisure-time Field

she writes, “not only as a member of a
group, but as an entity who has needs
and desires apart from those fulfilled
for him through the inevitable and in-
duced group sharing, planning, play-
ing, and living together. . . .” Her final
statement of ultimate objective is not
only philosophically sound for camping,
but for any other childhood experience:

“And so, as camping grows with the
years, let us hope and pray that some-
how we as leaders may learn how to
speak not only to the social self of the
child camper, the participant in the
world’s complexity, but also to that
still remaining solitary self that can
never be caught up in the interdepend-
ence of the swiftly changing world.

“This emphasis on the development of
the individual as a vigorous and strong
personality . . . will be the next great
challenge to camping. lts ultimate ac-
complishment may well be its most
noble purpose. . . .” To which we will
all say a fervent Amen l———Virginia M us-
selman, NRA Program Service.

Act It Out*

Bernice Wells Carlson. Abingdon
Press, 810 Broadway, Nashville 2,
Tennessee. Pp. 160. $2.00.

A collection of simple dramatic ac-
tivities written for children. Because
of the simplicity of style, as well as of
the material, this is a good source of
dramatic activities for playground lead-
ers who are not drama specialists, but
who know the importance of play-
ground drama.

It contains many dramatic games.
short skits, stunts, pantomimes, tab-
leaux, and playlets, as well as two short
pageants and a good collection of simple,
short skits and playlets for various
types of puppets and marionettes. The
style is informal, the material is in
good taste, and the illustrations by
Laszlo Matulay are full of humor and
vitality. The book will be very useful
to playground leaders, camp counselors,
and other playground leaders working
primarily with six-to twelve-year-olds.

Education and Art

Edwin Ziegfield, Editor. UNESCO,
United Nations, New York. Pp. 129.
$5.50.

It is not our general custom to re-

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

view hooks printed several years ago,
but this one (1953) somehow slipped
by us, possihly because it was printed
in Switzerland for UNESCO, and so did
not appear on the usual lists. It is so
stimulating and so important a book,
however, that we should be remiss not
to call it to the attention of art depart-
ments and all serious art leadersoand
teachers.

This symposium has eight major sec-
tions. Specialists in art, education, so-
ciology and psychology consider the na-
ture of creative activity and art educa-
tion. Creative art teaching of the young
child and the adolescent is described
and discussed in terms of methods and
materials. Problems of administration,
training of art teachers, and art educa-
tion in its relation to the community are
dealt with and lead into a consideration
of art education and indigenous cul-
tures. The last section discusses art ed-
ucation from the international point of
view.

The names of the authors of the vari-
ous articles sound like an international
roll-call of artists, artist-educators, psy-
chologists, and sociologists: Henri Ma-
tisse, in “The Nature of Creative Ac-
tivity”; Herbert Read, English poet, art
critic and writer, in “Education
Through Art” and so on. A quotation
from this last article somehow seems to
sum up the intent of the entire book: “It
is a mistake to define a world of art and
set it apart from life. For that reason it
is a mistake to teach the appreciation of

*Available from NRA Recreation Book
Center, 8 West Eighth Street, New York 11,
N. Y.

J   64 PGES!

ENAMEL-ON-COPPER

learn iewelry making; latest enam-
eling processes and techniques from
step - by - step illustrated instruc-
tions. Book lists many new copper
Items. complete supplies, tools 8.
equipment. Send for your copy of thls
valuable reference book todayl n" FREE

THE COPPER SHOP
A Div. of lmmerman 6 Sons 0 Dept. 205

2185 East 14th 0 Cleveland 15, Ohio

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
       

 

BASKETBALL
STEEL CHAIN
NETS

3 Years Guaranteel
outdoors or Indoors

Also featuring Joyfro'e custom Emil:

v ALUMINUM MUlTl-PURPOSE STANDARDS
v SHUFFLEBOARD 5515 WITH
“RUBBER CUSHIONED" DISCS
v PADDLE TETHERBALI. SETS

0 Send for Free Catalog 0

JAYFRO ATHLETIC SUPPLY CO.
Dept. R, Box 1065, NEW LONDON, CONN.

 

239

art, for the implied attitude is too de-
tached. Art must be practised to be ap-
preciated, and it must be taught in inti-
mate apprenticeship. The teacher must
be an artist no less active than the pupil.
. . . We do not insist on education
through art for the sake of art, but for
the sake of life itself.”

The numerous color plates of chil-
dren’s paintings from all over the world
are delightful and exciting; and there
are many other excellent black and
white photographs of children sharing
creative activities.

This is a book to treasure, to study,
to refer to, to quote from, to learn from
—for those pe0ple deeply interested in
child development, in the use of the best
education methods to free, not suppress,
the instinctual and emotional compon-
ents of human personality.

Public Relations for Social
Agencies

Harold P. Levy. Harper and Broth-
ers, 4'9 East 33rd Street, New York 16.
Pp. 208. $3.50.

This book is for executives, board
members, advisory committee members
and others in the field of social welfare
who are not specialists in public rela-
tions. Written by a counselor who has

INDEX OF ADVERTISERS

PACE
All Metal Tennis Table Company--__.__.___-_.- 193
American Playground Device Company ._ - 193
Associated Films .._.___..-_-_...._.s..-.._.__....- 196
The Athletic Institute _. , ___ o _. . 194
Beltz Engineering Laboratories .-._ - 193
The J. E. Burke Company .-  .. ._ 207
California State PersonnelBoard-  _..-._. 215
The Copper Shop _..--_____.._-_.__. . _..-_.._ 239
Dremel Manufacturing Company - __... 207
Duo-Kiln Manufacturing Company   193
Greenwich Book Publishers an“... _ 193
Handwoaver&Craftsman-..._ _  . 237
Hillerich & Bradsby _--.,... .-_lnside Front Cover
Hoppy Taw Corporation - ..-_-____.__.,_-____ 207
Jamison Manufacturing Company .   ._ 215
Jafro Athletic Supply Company __-.. _...-__- 239
J. C. larson Company ._..__________.__.  194
McGraw-Hill Book Company ....__.. .._,  . 237
Monroe Company ---_._...._-,-.__.__._.._.,__.._ 227
National Trophy Sales -  23f

Newcomb Audio Products Company  - 235

Park Maintenance ______.___..H__ .t 194
Porter Sargent Publisher   . 23'!
Prior Jewelry and Award Company ..._. .. 234
The Ronald Press Company mm--- ..... .. 235
The Shadow Box -_.____-_..__-   239
James Spencer & Company 193
Square Dance Associates  194
Superior Industries Corporation . 207
Voil ___..-_.__.._.__.,._-._..__._-.._..__ 235
X-acto, Inc. a--- .. ._--._--__-___ ._._ 207
240

had many years'of experience, it shows
how public relations thinking (in the
widest sense of the word) can, and
should, permeate all that an agency
does. It is not primarily a publicity
manual, although it has many helpful
things to say about ways to get pub-
licity and to make the most of it.

Enlivened by case histories and brief
examples, it can be read with profit by
all who feel the need for better public
relations but don’t quite know how to
go about it.

A chapter on public agencies will be
of special interest to many state, county,
and municipal recreation directors, but
the entire book contains ideas and sug-
gestions that are broadly applicable and
easily adapted. Anne New, NRA Public

Information and Education Service.

How to Survive on Land and Sea*

(Second Revised Edition)

U. S. Naval Institute, Annapolis,
Maryland. Pp. 368. $4.00.

Aside from being interesting reading,
a great deal of the information in this
book could be utilized in any programs
planned around the subject of survival
—a discussion program, a hike such as
described on page 222 of this issue, and
other adventure, nature or campcraft
activity. It covers finding food and wa-
ter, building fires, improvising sheltcr—
all in a strange environment, far from
civilization—and such t0pics as how to
Spear fish, prepare wild animal food,
orientation and travel, and environ-
mental hazards.

This was one of a series of training
manuals originally prepared by and for
naval aviation personnel. It is liberally
and attractively illustrated.

FAMILY CAMPING

Sunset Ideas for Family Camping.’
Lane Publishing Company, Menlo
Park, California. Pp. 128. Paper $1.75.

Families who are going camping can’t
afford to overlook this book unless they
are very cxperienced 'indeed! It is a
manual and guide to everything thcy
need to know in order to takc their out-
ing in stride and make it a huge success.
Contents arc relatcd to taking the trip in
the family car and includc ingenious
ideas for comfort and convenience

which may be ovcrlooked by even sea- '

soncd campers. Assembling cquipment,
what to takc, when to go, transporting
gear, traveling with children, pitching
camp and cooking are some of the many
subjects covered. Although suggestions
as to obtaining information about where
to go only apply to the Western states,
the camping instructions are good and
include the setting up of a camp in any
national or state park, forcst or monu-

ment. One chapter is devoted to desert
and beach camping; the inside back
cover carries a checklist of camping
equipment; the front inside cover, a
checklist of food. Recommended.

Family Camping and Places to Camp in
the North Central States, George T.
Wilson. R. Laacke Company, 1025-35
West Walnut Street, Milwaukee 5. Pp.
112. Paper $1.00.

Some readers will remember the
small, but very popular, pamphlet with
the same title published several years
ago. This is a completely revised and
enlarged second edition. The author is
supervisor and director of outdoor edu-
cation for the Milwaukee Department
of Municipal Recreation and Adult Ed-
ucation, and conducts the department’s
Family Camping Association. He and
his family have been camping enthusi-
asts for many years and this booklet is
based upon what they have learned from
practical eXperience.

The last forty-one pages contain a de-
tailed directory of places to camp in
Wisconsin, Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa,
Illinois and Indiana; a listing of books,
guides and organizations; and a listing
of where to write for more information
on state parks, forests, national areas.

It is always a pleasure to see profes-
sional leaders in public recreation pro-
duce good program publications: Last
month we reviewed the* book on play-
ground activities by Frank Geri, di-l
rector of playgrounds in Bellingham,
W'ashington. Who’s next?

Inspirational Poetry for Camp
and Youth Groups

(Second Edition)

Compiled by H. Jean Berger, 49
North Main Street, Cortland, New York.
Unpaged (8" x 4%”, 3-hole, loose-
leaf cards). $2.00.

This compilation of verse, quotations,1
and poems is for those who love the
out-of-doors or who arc leaders of in-
spirational services in camp. Its con-l
tents were a part of a collcction, started
by the author when she was a camperl
twenty years ago, which shc presents to
today’s campcrs in the hopc that it may
be “but the beginning of a rich and val-
uable anthology. . . .” Shc is now an 1
associate professor of physical educa-i
tion at Statc Teachch Collegc, Cortland, .
New York.

Poetry is one of the vital means of ex- ._
pressing the spiritual expcriences which
occur in camp. In tl1c hands of an en-
thusiastic camp leadcr, this little book
can do much to start an awareness of
camp beauty and poctry. It should be in
every camp library, and availalilc to
campcrsthrough the camp store if there
is one.

RECREATION

Recreation Leadership Courses

Sponsored by the National Recreation Association
and

Local Recreation Agencies

June, July and August, 1957

HELEN M_ DAUNCEY Youngstown, Ohio 0. S. Ellis, Director-Treasurer, The Youngstown Playground Asso-
Playground Recreation June 13-14- eiation, 2218 Ohio Avenue
York, Pennsylvania Mrs. Sylvia C. Newcombe, York Recreation Commission, 32 W. King
June 17-18
Lancaster, Pennsylvania Albert E. Reese, Director of Recreation, 135 N. Lime Street
June 19-20
Durham, New Hampshire Miss Patricia L. Olkkonen, Recreation Specialist, University of New
.1 une 24-27 Hampshire
Whitinsville, Massachusetts Roscoe M. Marker, Supervising Director, Town of Northbridge Play-
July 1-2 ground and Recreation Commission
RUTH C. EIILERS Shepherdstown, West Virginia J. O. Cullison, Dean, Shepherd College
Playground Recreation July 5-8
ANNA S. PHERIGO Reading, Pennsylvania John Wise, Director, Recreation Board of Berks County, Court House
Playground Recreation June 5-7
Toledo, Ohio Arthur G. Morse, Division of Recreation, 214-18 Safety Building
June 10-13
GRACE WALKER Montgomery, Alabama William L. Brannon, 1001 Tuscaloosa
Creative Recreation June 4-8
Great Falls, Montana Miss Margaret Bueher, Director of Education, Montana Farmers
June 10-23 Union, Box 2089
FRANK A. STAPLES Toledo, Ohio Arthur G. Morse, Division of Recreation, 214-18 Safety Building
Arts and Crafts June 10-13
Altoona, Pennsylvania Stuart E. Nolan, Assistant Superintendent of Recreation, Lexington
June 15 Avcnuc and Tenth Street

 

Mr. Staples will conduct an arts and crafts course the first week in June at Oflutt Air Force Base in Omaha. For further de-
tails, communicate with the Air Force Regional Representative, Howard Beresford, 3055 Bellairc, Denver, Colorado.

 

Attendance at training courses conducted by National Recreation Association leaders is usually open to all who wish to attend.
For details as to location of the institute, contents of the course, registration procedure, and the like, communicate with the spon-
sor of the course as listed above.

 

NATIONALk g
RECREATION a,

‘ ‘ MONTH '
-   LIVE ALL YOUR LIFE

3

!

 

