 

Center-Powered

to give you FOLLOW-THRIJ Feel

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
   
   
   
  
 

You’re looking at the ultranew Center-
Powered iron in which is achieved great concentration
of weight directly in back of the hitting area.
Adroit designing, for appearance as well as for weight
displacement, imparts to this club that rare
combination of beauty and power. What’s more,
the new Grand Slams are
forged from STAINLESS—
the premier metal for
iron golf heads.

'I"'.,.

Brand new for 1957, these
confidence-inspiring wood
beauties have in good share
that head-power-feel for which
H & B woods have long
been noted.

It's looks, feel, and performance that count with golfers—-
the new Grand Slams have everything.

HILLERICH 8: BRADSBY CO... Louisville, Kentucky
Also Makers of Famous Louisville Slugger Bats

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

HARVARD TALE TENNIS TOURNAMENT

YOUR SCHOOL, PLANT OR RECREATION PROGRAM

Everyone plays in a Harvard I iridium" m}
Gold Medal Table Tennis Tourna- -' ' ..  , 
ment . . . because everyone enioys ~. _'  ' ‘ 3-3:  '
this exciting event that serves more I “
players, in less space, without any
permanent installation and at lower
cost than most other school sports.

We will send, ABSOLUTELY
FREE, the Harvard Tournament Kit
containing everything you need to
organize your own full-participation
tournament: Harvard Table Tennis
Teacher with instructions, rules and tour-
nament tips; 2 Tournament Charts; com-
plete publicity program and tally sheets.

FREE . . . for your winners, Harvard Gold

Medals and award certificates when you
complete the tally sheets. Mail the coupon

i'
t

+
+-.
+

l-
4-

+

3...... .....'.‘:'.....I.. .'-..a

A. I- h-f-up

F I
I

“1" l'
.-.I+
lug-1.4.1.4
.4” +"t t

i?
E!

uln-"e
-—1-+

an...“

:‘i'

     

bEIOW l’OdGY- JEESHFIF- .  I

WW _'I‘K"7A"BIIE“_”.'I',EN HIS-"CO. 6,0 STAT EMS}. BOSTON9...-.MA'SQSI ‘2'
R9

Geni'emem We plan to start our tournament on

In order to run a table tennis tournament please

send us the FREE Harvard Tournament Kit. There Will be apprOXimmelY—‘#p°“itipama

 

 

 

 

 

 

SCHOOL OR ORG. We do , do not offer table tennis al|‘_year.
NAME

POSITION Table Tennis is part of our.____.___program.
smear a. NO. . . .
CITY______________ZONE___STATE___________ f There are ._________.___:n our school or organization.

SEPTEMBER 1957 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 241

    
 

i  g, inexpensive
 ' group activity!

 =_ ,..‘
N-M“ .

Looking for a new recreation idea? Voit has it in a
pre-tested, packaged Tetherball Contest!

If you haven’t tried tetherball, this contest is a wonder-
ful way to get it started on your local playgrounds.

If the game is already well-established in your area,
here’s a way to adapt it into an organized new Recreation
Department activity.

Voit will furnish you with complete instructions, awards
and tested suggestions on how to make tetherball contests
a high spot on your calendar.

Tetherball knows no season. It’s popular year ’round,
so you can make use of the contests to perk up a recreation
program during any doldrum period.

Fun for all ages, tetherball draws its peak attention from
the 7 to 12 year old age group—boys and girls.

For the youngsters, tetherball means fun, excitement
and action.

For the playground director, it means safe play with
minimum supervision.

For the purchaser, it means easy installation, low-cost,
long-lasting recreational equipment.

TETHERBALL

2945 East 12th Street
Los Angeles 23. Callfornla

VOIT OFFICIAL TETHERBALLS

Safe. durable.
waterproof and

washable. Built 

for hard use with

Please send me com lete details on your
strong fabric

packaged Tetherbal Contest. Including

I

I

I

I

|

carcass and a rules. court layouts and lnstallatlon :
I

I

|

|

soft. “Stingless"' .'

cover ln bright 

yeltlow liars ililgth» J. NAME

es v s i y. r

Excluslsfrie spiral hf _ ADDRESS

tdligi-biufs me CITY___________STATE

'1-
': lnstructlons.

 

 

  
 

America’s Finest Sports Equipment By 45 w. lBih Street, New York ii

315 E. Grand Avenue. Chicago H
2945 E. 12th Street, los Angeles 23

242 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

  
   

  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
  
 
 
 

 or every
 RECREATION
- ACTIVITY

  

 

 0 transcription player
 0 public address system

‘ For every sound reproduction

I application in recreation halls,

'- gyms, auditoriums, or summer
camps, the Newcomb R-16CV
does the job better, yet weighs
1 less than 22 pounds. A separate
microphone and phonograph
volume control permits mixing
recorded music with the micro-
. phone presentation. Variabie
 :peed control allows variable

l, tempo and pitch (from any basic
I speed setting). A quality heat

" , and humidity resistant high

‘ iidelity ceramic pickup is encased
. in a professional-type tone arm.

* Balanced-design amplifier with
inverse feedback in combination
-. with a line ten-inch extended
range speaker give quality you'd
never expect at its price. Newcomb
is the "round of qua!in time
1937". . . recognized by leading
school authorities from coast

_ coast to coast.

NEWCOMB VARlABLE SPEED

Exclusive Newcomb design gives
_ dependable continu0usly variable
control at all 3 speeds.

NEWCOMB

- Audio Products Co.. Dept. 2-9
6824 Lexington An. Hoiiywood 3|. Caiii.

C] Send tree catalog oi Newcomb
portable sound equipment.

C] Send name 01 our nearest
Newcomb distributor.

RECREATION

SEPTEMBER 1957

 

Editor in Chief, JOSEPH PRENDERcAS'r
Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON
Editorial Assistant, AMELIA HENLY
Business Manager, ALFRED H. WILSON

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Recreation Administration, GEORGE BUTLER
Program Activities, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

Vol. L. Price 50 Cents NO. 7

0n the Cover

CAN YOU RESIST the call of a country lane in
September or Octoher? As school opens for the

year, the countryside puts on its most beautiful
dress. Use the weekends, now, for a last round of
hikes, picnics, cookouts. Have your share of fun
under autumn skies—for indoor activities belong
primarily to the winter, and the winter can be long!
Photo courtesy Massie, Missouri Resources Division.

Next Month

DO you know why we celehrate Halloween, and
origin of some of its pranks? The Octoher 1957
issue of RECREATION will tell you. Also, that issue
will carry an interesting article on American folk
dancing hy Sarah Gertrude Knott and an excellent
one on puhlic relations by Richard M. Baker, vice-
president of the Brady Company in Appleton, Wis-
consin. Program articles include one on promotion
and decoration hy Mary Frances Sargent, Army Serv-
ice Cluh director, and one on adapting dancing for
senior citizens. Frank Staples’ HOW-TO-DO-Ill
covers mosaic making; and don’t miss the center-
spread which reports the results of June as Na-
tional Recreation Month this year.

Photo Credits

Page 250, Pacific Air Industries, Long Beach, Cali-
fornia; 252-4, Jasper Nutter and Marshall LeCour,
Long Beach, California.

RECREATION is publisbed monthly except July and
August by the National Recreation Association. a service
Organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 8
West Eighth Street, New York 11, New York, is on
file_1n public libraries and is indexed in tbe Reader-1’
(Etude. Subscriptions $4.00 a year. Canadian and for-
eign subscription rate 34.50. Re—entered as second-class
matter April 25. 1950, at tbe Post Oflice in New York,
New York, under Act of Marcb 3. 1879. Acceptance
for mailing at Special rate of postage provided for in
Section 1103. Act of Ocrober 3, 1917, authorized May
1, 1924. Microfilms Of current issues available Uni-
versity Microfilms, 313 N. FirSt Street, Ann Arbor,
Michigan.

Space Representatives: Mark Minahan, 168 Nortb
Micbigan Avenue. Chicago, Illinois; Seymour A. Rob-
bins & Associates, 101 West 55th Street, New York 19,
New York;The Jules E. Thompson Company, 681
Market Street, San Francisco 5. California.

Copyright, 1957. by the
National Recreation Association, Incorporated

Printed in the U.S.A.
“@913

' Trade mark registered in U. S. Patent Office.

SEPTEMBER 1957

 

 

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

CONTENTS

GENERAL FEATURES

Recreating for Fitness (Editorial) . . . . . . . . Shane diacCarthy 244
Sure-Fire Safety in RiHery . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 256

New Vistas in Recreation for Patients

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . lilaurice E. Linden, BLD. 259

NATIONAL RECREATION CONGRESS
Highlights of the National Recreation Congress . . . . . . . . . . . . 250

Puhlic Recreation in Long Beach . . . . . . . . . . Duane George 252

ADRIINISTRATION
Location of Facilities for Senior Citizens Clubs

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  RonaldD. Johnson 266
A Matter Of Policy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 268
Reascarch Reviews and Ahstracts . . . . . . . . George D. Butler 270
PROGRAIVI
Easy Ways tO Change Partners . . . . . . . . . . . . Jane A. Harris 261

Rhythm Groups in Rehabilitation
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Leo Shatin and Wallace Kotter 262

Nature Crafts Year ’Round . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Alice Howenstine 264

REGULAR FEATURES

Things You Should Know . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 246
Letters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 248
Reporter’s Notebook . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 255
Personnel—SOS! Danger Ahead . . . . . . . . W. C. Sutherland 272

Books and Pamphlets Received, Periodicals, Magazine Articles 274

' Index of Advertisers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 274

New Publications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 276

Recreation Leadership Training Courses. . . . . .Insidc Back Cover

243

Recreating

for

o
 o o o o o o o o o o 0 Shane D'IacCartlly

RECREATION must be recognized as an integral part of life if we are to attain proper

individual standards of fitness. Those of you who are dedicated professional rec-
reation leaders need not be “sold” on this fact. Unfortunately, however, millions of

, fathers and mothers, who today care for their children in creditable fashion, consider
recreation as something to do when one has no important function to perform. They
consider recreation as a frill or an appendage—too often classified as “fun.”

 

Shane Maccarlhy Even in the face of this prevalent interpretation, we are convinced that no under-
taking has a greater opportunity and challenge in achieving fitness goals for youth and
adults alike than does recreation. Human fitness is a compendium of many factors—mental. emotional,
cultural, social, spiritual, and physical—hlended in proportions so balanced that each person at a par-
ticular time and under certain circumstances will be able to perform to the best of his or her'ahility and
capacity.

In the normal apportionment of timc, wc find work and non-work segments. There are some per-
sons with seemingly bottomless reservoirs of energy who continue their work habits even while off the
primary job and cease only for sleep. Where does recrcation fit into such patterns of living? Too many
would be prone to answer immediately, in shallow fashion, by saying that the economic demands of
today prevent people from “being idle” when they could be doing something to add to their monetary
resources. Others might respond that recrcation can bc embarked upon “at some future time” whcn
they may have some opportunity “for less important things.” Many would say that rccreation is “only
for children who have nothing more important to do.”

All such responses not only ignore the fundarncntal meaning of recreation but at thc samc time
show the dimensions of thc task facing us in attempting to alcrt the nation to the need for total fitness of
all our people. We realize that youth fitness will never be achieved unless the leadership of example of
the adult p0pulation is seen in conspicuous fashion by our young girls and boys—and how can this be
done unless we blast the very bascs of erroneous meanings regarding recreation which have become en-
cased in the minds of our citizens?

Merely to state that recreation is a necessary ingredicnt in attaining fitness will achicve little. It
is more fundamental and essential for all leaders in ouridemocratic socicty to understand the full
dimensions and proportions of recreation as it fits into the context of current life. If parents, teachers,
and those in government, labor, industry, builders, planners, and others could recognize that recreation
is an integral and essential part of each one’s life, then the concomitancc bctwccn it and fitness would
he self-evident.

What function of the man is closer to the action of the infinite power of God Himsclf than the ability
to re-create? In the multitudinous listings of dictionaries, no word cxists which gives more credit to the
capacity of the human being than his ability to take what God has made out of nothing by the proccss

 

DR. MACCARTHY is executive director of the President’s Council on Youth Fitness, Washington, D. C.

244 RECREATION

of creation and then try to renew it. Thus, recreating is not being idle and debasing the normal use of
time available for leisure. It is a purposeful endeavor which can encompass every item performed by
youth or adults, whether this be rest or activity, the development of tense competition in sport or the
easy system of basking in thc sun, the vigorous application of physical energy to win or the desire to
admire the prowess of others. It may be the motivating force to accelerate the speed of the champion-
ship runner, or the wish on the part of the same individual on another occasion to take a leisurely stroll.
Recreation may direct the interest of one human being in the joy of looking at masterpieces of art hang-
ing on a wall, while another may be getting his recreation benefits and pleasures simultaneously by
playing handball against the outer side of the same wall.

These are but a few observations to illustrate the vast span of divergent appeal in re-creating the
human personality. Notice that running throughout these activities (and remember that sitting and gaz-
ing are activities when done by act of the will) is a deliberateness. In its manifold variety, recreation is
a positive factor for achieving a purposeful, good goal. In this sense, it demands the thoughtful at-
tention of each individual to the directing of hirnself, or herself, without the force of outside compulsion.

The civilization of today too easily provides ready-made, artificial pleasures demanding little effort
or initiative. This by-product of automation affects all age brackets of our society and gives to recreation
new demands and opportunities. For example, as recreation looks at the wonderful world of childhood,
it expresses concern about all of the items of manufactured mechanization which are robbing children
of the simplicity in play that is a powerful stimulant for the use of imagination. When, by pressing
buttons, castles are lighted and their gates open and close, little initiative is left to the child to create his
or her own castles in the air.

The trend in the' adult field is to invent all sorts of items which will do for individuals what these
same persons were compelled to do themselves not so many years ago. The further we get into the realm
of mechanical contrivances, the more distant we appear to be from the benefits that come from simple
recreation processes more closely akin to human endeavors. Though we now have the ability to be trans-
ported quickly from one place to another, we seem to get little recreation benefit in the tense process.
Though the same journey took somewhat longer in days past, perhaps it provided the opportunity for
the thoughtful recreation and beneficial conversation which is lost in today’s hustle and bustle.

With the inevitable trend of giving to the human being more off-the-j ob time, and with the soft living
habits which have become a part of the pattern of our civilization, you, as members of the National
Recreation Association, have a necessary and essential responsibility to corral leadership forces outside
your ranks to achieve the fitness of our youth and our adults: ‘When you speak and write; about recrea-
tion bemfits, your deepest sincerity is suspect as “mere professional utterances.” Thus,““you have the
task of ringing the doorbells of interest, which in our category are necessary alerts, toliviri disciples to
the thinking that recreation is just as important for the human being as food and rest, and that, unless
our citizens begin to school themselves in this manner now, the continuance of present thinking and pres-
ent methods may make this task impossible of attainment in the future. We hope that the Thirty-Ninth
National Recreation Congress will be the potential that leads to the fulfillment of this fitness goal. I

A FENCING:
PROGRAM:

Far 2 or 200. Requires minimum space and simple inex-
pensive equipment. We deslgn and manufacture the .
best and least expenslve

weapons and accessaries .
 far beginners and ex-

.I'II perts. let us help you .
l ' t f ' 2' '2
®\\\“. I I' _ se up a enclng ac w: y

Write on letterhead for tree mail-order catalog. . - ar develap the one you .
.t -.  have. Consultations free.
‘1.

MAI'S REtORDIIIG SERVICE Wm, M... m, 0

Dept. RE. Box 37. Rockaan Park 94, II. T. AMERICA'S OlDES‘t‘ AND LARGEST Imoarns AND MANUFACTURERS OF FREE CATAlOG. .

O O O O 0 O

30 EAST 10th STREET, N.Y.3,N.Y.° GRamercy 3-5930

  
   
  

RECORDED TAPE

ONE STOP SERVICE

We carry all lines at stereaphanic
and monaural tapes.

EDUCATIONAL ' BACKGROUND MUSIC
GENERAL MUSIC TAPES
TAPE PLAYBACK EQUIPMENT

Special discounts to
recreation oFFicers

 

 

SEPTEMBER 1957 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 245

 

CALLING ALL AMATEUR PHOTOGRA-
PHERS! If you are planning to take
pictures at the National Recreation Con-
gress in Long Beach, please keep RECRE-
ATION in mind for some Of your informal
action shots. We would like to see, es-
pecially, any good pictures taken at the
“Rancho Roundup” at the Vessels
Ranch on Wednesday evening, or any
of the loading of buses for the tours,
and so on. Magazine staff members
Donaldson and Henly will be staying
at the Hotel Wilton. Check with one of
them if there are any questions.

} PARK PRACTICE is a program estab-
lished in 1956 by the National Confer-
ence of State Parks with the assistance
of the National Park Service. Ira B:
Lykes is its chief, with ofiices at the
NCSP headquarters, 901 Union Trust
Building, Washington, D.C. The pro-
gram is designed to aid in the dissem-
ination of information on the planning,
development, and management of parks
and recreation areas. Park and recrea-
tion personnel at all levels of govern-
ment are eligible to participate or bene-

fit. Write to Mr. Lykes for further in-

formation.

} How ABOUT A BOOK FAIR FOR BOOK
WEEK—November 17 to 23? The theme
this year is “Explore with Books.” Co-
operate with your local library or with
any already established book fair in
your community. It’s fun!

Helpful and still good is the pamphlet
published by the Children’s Book Coun-
cil last year: How to Run a Book Fair
by Dorothy L. McFadden. This is avail-
able from the council at 50 West 53rd
Street, New York 19, for seventy-five
cents. Send for it and for other Book
Week materials—and be sure to specify
the free folder, “Aids to Choosing
Books for Your Children.” (Members
of the National Recreation Association
will be receiving some of these items
with their Membership Newsletter.)

) IN THE MAGAZINES: “Modern Man’s
Wearying Rat Race” * in Life, July 15,
1957; “Could You Stand a Four-Day

* Excerpted from Osborn 0n Leisure by
Robert Osborn (Simon and Schuster) .

246

Week?” by Robert Bendiner in The

Reporter, August 8, 1957; “A measure
of Fitness” by Dorothy Stulm, Sports
Illustrated, August 5, 1957; “Is Ameri-
can Youth Physically Fit?” (the find-
ings that shocked Eisenhower), U. 5.
News and World Report, August 2,
1957; “The Small-Town, One-Man Rec-
rcation Department” by Charles E.
Hartsoe, The American City, July 1957.

) STIPENDS FOR GRADUATE ASSISTANTS
have received a second increase at the
University of Illinois this year. They
are now $900 for a quarter-time assist-
antship and 31,800 to $2,100 for the
half-time assistantship. Recipients of
these awards are also exempt from pay-
ing tuition. For out-of-state students—
and most of the graduate students are
from out of state—a quarter-time as-
sistantship in recreation will mean $900
for stipend plus $550 for tuition and
fees, or a total of $1,450. Lucky stu-
dents!

} RECREATION MAGAZINE BIBLIOGRA-
PHIES at the National Recreation Con-
gress: Collected sets of the bibliogra-
phies on Congress topics will again be
available at the Consultation Center.
They have been brought up-to-date and
are now fat and sleek and cost one
dollar. A charge is necessary at last,
because of publication costs, and we
hope you’ll think them worth it. Copies
of the single listings are still free, how-
cvcr, and to be had for the asking.

} A NEW FILM, Planning Recreation
FaciIities, will be shown for the first
time at the Congress in Long Beach,
by the Athletic Institute of Chicago.
Produccd by a longtime NRA mcmbcr,
Herb‘Price of Hollywood, California,
the 16mm film is a color, sound motion
picture which demonstrates, by the use
of stop-motion animation of scale-model
sets, the need for careful planning and
supervision. It is especially designed as
an audio-visual aid for recreation
courses on the collegc levcl, but can
serve as a resource for planners and rec-
reation authorities. For purchase price
and rental charges write the institute

at 209 South State Street, Chicago 4,
Illinois.

} VISITS TO STATE PARKS throughout
the United States in 1956 went over the
200,000,000 mark, for the first time,
according to a compilation recently
completed by the National Park Service.
Reports from eighty-nine state parks
in forty-seven states provided this in-
formation. Survey figures are given in
detail in State Park Statistics—1956,
available from the National Park Ser-
vice, Department of the Interior, Wash-

ington 25, D.C.

} “YOUTH APPRECIATION WEEK” is be-
ing introduced for the first time by 0p-
timist Clubs, November 4-10, 1957, to
give the normal, well-balanced boys and
girls—who are too often identified with
vandalism and hoodlumism—the credit
they deserve. This pilot project was
described in The Optimist Magazine,
October 1956, and again in February
1957. The magazine is the official
monthly publication of Optimist In-
ternational.

} AN ARIZONA STATE PARKS BOARD was
recently created by the passage of
House Bill No. 72. The board consists
of seven members, to include the state
land commissioner and six other resi-
dents of the state appointed by the gov-
ernor and selected for their “knowledge
of and interest in outdoor activities,
multiple use of lands, archaeology, nat-
ural resources and the value of the his-
torical aspects of Arizona, and because
of their interest in the conservation of
natural resources.”

Charles J. Reitz, superintendent of
the Yuma Recreation and Parks Depart-
ment, writes to Joseph Prendergast of
the National Recreation Association:
“Your letter to Hank Swan, as well as
Jesse Reynolds’ letter to Hank, was
mimeographed and distributed to key
legislators. The same procedure was
used with letters written to me by
George Hjelte, Howard Holman and
Skip Winans.

“The person who is almost totally rc-
sponsihle for recreation features includ-
ed in the bill is Statc Senator Harold C.
Giss of Yuma. Senator Giss has been
a friend of recreation for many years,
and your letter, written to him during
the last scssion of the lcgislature, pro-
vided the spark that gave him renewed
vigor and determination to fight with
increasing diligence for our cause . . . I
wish to thank you for your assistancc.”

} A CLINIC FOR PUBLICATION EDITORS
is scheduled at thc National Recreation
Congress for Thursday afternoon. Octo-
ber 3, at 2:15. Whethcr you do. or do
not, publish any materials in your de-
partment or organization, you are in-
vited to attend. Perhaps you can pick
up some valuablc inspiration or point-
ers. Comc and sec! I

RECREATION

   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  

More and more progressive communities are turning to TARGET SHOOTING
as an ideal public recreation program. Recognized as the traditionally
American sport, TARGET SHOOTING is fun for everyone because everyone
— boys and girls, young and old, can participate.

Officials concerned with public recreation programs are invited to investigate
the many advantages of the NRA's complete package Recreation Program.
The package includes range plans, instruction manuals, a shooting program
and complete information covering conduct of a safe public shooting range.

Be sure to visit our Exhibit Booth at the National Recreation Congress in Long
Beach —— or, if unable to attend this year's Congress, write for free packet

containing details.

Wrirefor NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION

FREE
Packet 0

 

The day it arrives boys and girls of all
shapes, sizes and agcs miraculous]
appear from every direction. Children
love the thrill of bouncing and flying
through the air on a Trampoline.

And they like the fact that the basic
jumps are so easily mastered. They’re
experts in no time at all.

Trampolining is good for them, too.
Provides excellcnt all-around condi-
tionin g cxercise. It’s the favorite new
recreational activity at camps, Y’s
community centers, schools, and

playgrounds.

Nissen Trampolines bounce better
longer. Are sturdily constructed
to take it and last. Therc’s a model
and size to {it your necds at a

price to {it your budget.

f'l

AND IF IT ISN’T A N IT ISN’T A TRAMPOLINE“

See your Sporting goods dealer or write to—

NISSEN TRAMPOLINE COMPANY
200 A Ave. N. W... Cedar Rapids, Iowa

NISSEN TRAMPOlINE OF CALIFORNIA
479 W. 6th Street, San Pedro

IV‘

  

*Reg: U.5. Pat. Off.

SEPTEMBER 1957 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 247

. _eizrmn‘eeanctaanvaassvneavaaavmn’n-‘W. i .

 mapgmwwwmrg‘sw:nywvmmmwtrmw.

 

, y ., mainstreamvwemmmgggagggmsman:any:emitgmwasevaawrtittmentmttt-strasit-stttitwa -.'.

  
  

.a complete, easy-
to-follow guide
to square dancing

GENE GOWING'S
THE

Now, you can get more fun out of
square dancing with this practical book
by Gene Gowing, Director of the
world-famous Folkways Foundation.
His new book, THE SQUARE DANCERs’
GUIDE, is the first book that shows you
not only how to become an eXpert
square dancer, but also lets you in
on the secrets of professional square
dance calling!

Drawings, diagrams, and call-by-call
instructions illustrate all the essential
steps, movements, and patterns of folk
dancing...show you the recommended
way to follow any call.

Every fundamental movement and
pattern is explained in detail, enabling
even a beginner to dance the most
intricate square dance sets. Calls, tunes,
and sample programs for every kind
of gathering are included.

A separate section gives full informa-
tion and pointers for square dance
leading and calling—information
that will be especially useful to recre-
ation directors, camp counselors, band
leaders, and anyone who wants to get
the most out of this wholesome, enjoy-
able recreation.

This handsomely bound 8%"x 11”
volume is illustrated with over 100
drawings and diagrams. Order your
c0py of THE SQUARE DANCERs‘ GUIDE
today, and before you know it, you‘ll
be leading ’em as well as dancing ‘em.

54 FAVORITE DANCES are described
with full directions, calls, and easy-to-
understand drawings and diagrams.
Includes the Arkansas Traveler, Black-
berry Quadrille, Red River Valley, The
Boston Fancy, Spanish Circle, Maple
Leaf Jig, The Lancers, Kentucky Run-
ning Set, Texas Star, and many others.

ONLY $3.95. At all bookstores, or
order from CROWN PUBLISHERS,
Dept. C54, 419 Fourth Avenue, New
York 16, N. Y. Save postage and
C.O.D. charges by enclosing payment.
Refund in ten days if not delighted.

“w o".

  

   

4Wtil‘tmli5

' seaming

Tait

WWMWM‘aGaWIi’dRi‘HWREMlth'siimmh

JEMi

a

,r
on.

Edtbi‘étw-

eat.

“ease:th . .

gamma

3

"ii’i‘tfié

5"

5:35

am...” it?

 

EAWWuMWHRW-

  

 

Readers! You. are invited to send letters for this page

to Editor, RECREATION, 8 West Eighth Street, New
York II—so that your ideas, opinions and attitudes
may be exchanged with others on the wide range 0/
subjects of concern to us all. Here is your chance to
agree or disagree with the authors 0/ our articles.
Keep letters brief—not more than 250 words.

Congress City Sights
Sirs:

Recently the people of Long Beach,
California, (scene of the 39th National
Recreation Congress, September 30—
October 4, 1957) voted approximately
five million dollars in bonds for park
and recreation developments. Many of
the projects included in this bond elec-
tion are being completed now and will
be on display for the first time as the
Congress convenes. Much of this bond
money is being spent to “green up”
many undeveloped park areas. Sprink-
ler systems are being installed and
landscaping work is going forward
throughout the city.

A small-boat marina has just been
completed in Alamitos Bay which con-
nects with the ocean. This is the newest
and one of the most modern marinas
in southern California. It will be in-
spected during the Congress tour of rec-
reation areas and facilities. Two build-
ings which will be used part-time as
youth canteens are now under construc-
tion; as are several new park areas with
attractive, although small, multiple-use
recreation buildings, and a beautiful
new baseball field with steel bleachers
accommodating 3,800 spectators.

Delegates will be able to visit a down-
town adult recreation center near City
Hall where shufiieboard, cards, roque,
horseshoes, chess and other games are
played by large numbers of senior citi-
zens. Near the auditorium where the
Congress is to be held is an interesting
“University by the Sea” forum club for
adults where large groups meet cach
day to discuss the problems of the world.
This area is also supervised by the rec-
reation department.

These are but a few of the improve-
ments which delegates may want to sec.

WALTER L. SCOTT, Director 0/ Mn-

nicipal and School Recreation, Long
Beach, California.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

-——The Editors.

0 See also the article, “Public Recrea-
tion in Long Beach," by Duane George,
on page 250.—Ed.

Camping Issue
Sirs:

I would like to congratulate you on
your very well done Camping Issue of
RECREATION in March. There is so much
food for thought throughout the entire
issue, it should be a must for everyone
working with or interested in camping.

We, of the National Association for
Retarded Children, were particularly
pleased to see the splendid article en-
titled “The Mentally Retarded at Camp”
by Roland Larson. With the permission
of NRA, we have had reprints of this
article made for distribution purposes.
The value of such an article is immeas-
urable in giving encouragement and
help where it is needed. While this
article is of special interest to us, there
are several other extremely informative
and useful ones which I believe will
make this issue in great demand for
some time to come.

It might be of interest to you to know
that the NARC has a hard working
camping committee which, in addition
to two of our own representatives, is
composed entirely of professional camp-
ing experts from other national youth
serving organizations, including your
own NRA. Through their efforts, a bro-
chure of twenty-four concepts, entitled
Retarded Children Can Go Camping,
has been published for free distribution.

Although these concepts have been
developed specifically with the retarded
child in mind, many of them are appli-
cable to all campers whether they are
handicapped or not.

With all of this in mind then, and the
picture that is depicted in your Camping
Issue, it is surely most encouraging and
indicative of real progress when so
much sincere interest and thought is

RECREATION

being given to this ever-increasing
leisure—time activity of this age.
KATHRYN G. GOULD, Recreation

Committee Chairman, National As-
sociation for Retarded Children,

Inc., New York City. Id

«- at- * it- I J i: . 
Congratulations to you on the March I

issue, devoted to camping. I wanted to

say “bravo” and “amen” in the same 0 O

breath after reading Eugene Swan’s .    g P I

article on “What are Today’s Campers  I  o 
Missing?” Then I turned the page and

the picture on page 74 is shouting evi- .

dence of the emphasis which Mr. Swan pro yed b y experience

deplores. It is really too bad that the
pictures at the bottom of page 75 could

not have traded places with the trampo— and ac C epl‘anc 9
line activity. _
I realize that picture editors are not
always aware of the program emphasis
of the pictures they select. I am partic-
ularly disturbed by the illustration of

Lewis Reimann’s article on “Campsite If you are planning the development or modern-
Selection, Layout and Development.”

The three-story lodge on page 85 is ex-

 
   

ization of sports, recreational, commercial or

actly What we are trying to get away industrial areas, Monotube Hoodlighting poles
from will help you make full use of nighttime hours.
I realize that I am overly sensitive at . o . .
these points, 1 am now working with Available In heights up to 100 feet, Unlon
some seventy-five camps, many of which Metal Monotube poles are designed, engineered

are starting from scratch and want to
build in keeping with the current trend
in the out-0f_doors as reflected, for ex_ manufacture for more than half a century.
ample, in our suburban housing de-
velopments. This means openness and
space between buildings. tional strength, minimum maintenance, quick and

Perhaps our stress on the necessity
for sports in the camping setting has
made us less aware of the fact that dis-
covery is re-creation, also. It seems to
me you missed a chance on nature
games and I wish you had included, at
least in your illustrations, some concern
for the child becoming at home in the
out-of-doors.

MAURICE D. BONE, Counselor in
Camping, Board of Christian Educa-

tion of the Presbyterian Church,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

0 We thought we showed, in the em-
phasis in our March issue, our concern
with the honest values of life outdoors
—a world of campfires, woodlands,
nature, adventure, outdoor education,

as a ainst life and récreation activities . .
in ,th city or indoors._Ed. To learn more about Monotube floodltghtlng poles,

steel or aluminum, write to The Union Metal Manu-
facturing Co., Canton 5, Ohio for catalog information.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES , In Canada: The Union Metal Manufacturing Company
1 year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .84.00 of Canada, Limited, Brampton, Ontario.

2 years . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.25

Foreign

and produced by a company specializing in pole

Monotubes offer attractive appearance, excep-

easy installation . . . and no graying required.

 

Library subscriplions . . . . . . . 3.70

UNION METAL

Club subscriplions . . . . . . . . . 3.50

(Ten or_more individuals subscribing at one time)

RECREATION macazms
8 West Eighth Street. New York 11. N. Y.

Monotube Floodlighting Poles

   

SEPTEMBER 1957 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 249

4 do“ A

 

Robert E. Richards

v-
'1.

I.

«er-III“  (

 

Aerial view of Alamilos Bay —-- Long Beach in background.

 

Paul F. Douglass

 

Vierling Kersey

  

Harold W. Kennedy
250

ll +"‘ - I I - :_I
r, ' 'W.‘ i“: _. r; t! ',..t ‘1 all 1 JV I ' I
.. 3%....saggax  _    .. , _. .
a; 2: I .. -_  .. .,.. . .. .. .
. .- w 1: '- ' _- r : I-
v’! {k .l ' I

HIGHLIGHTS

 

Long Beach, California

September 30 - October 4

FIVE EXCELLENT speakers will set the pace and highlight

the exciting program planned for the 39th National
Recreation Congress. This major event of the year for
” In-
spirational addresses, discussion groups, workshops, clinics,
demonstrations and exhibits will cover all phases of recrea-
tion. Whether your interests are in a specialized area——such

recreation people will have “something for everyone.

as program, personnel, administration; in rural, urban,
industrial, military or hospital recreation; for tots to senior
citizens—or in the broad OVer-all philosOphy of recreation,
you’ll get the latest ideas, trends, and professional stimula-
tion at Long Beach. See you there September 30-October 4!

REVEREND ROBERT E. RICHARDS, minister-at-large for the Church of the Brethren, will address
the Opening session on Monday morning 0n “Recreation for a Strong America.” A renown-
ed athlete, he has been on three Olympic teams and has won twenty-two national champion-
ships. In 1956 the U. S. Junior Chamber of Commerce selected him as one of the ten out-
standing young men of the year.

DR. W. BALLENTINE HENLEY orator, educator, and civic leader will address the Tuesday eve-
ning general session on “EXploring New Recreational Frontiers.” Dr. Henley has earned
academic degrees in law, government, religion, and history. He is president of the Los An-
geles College of Osteopathic Physicians and Surgeons and a member of the Los Angeles,
American, and California Bar Associations. Dr. Henley is under the sponsorship of Gen-
eral Motors Corporation.

DR. PAUL F. DOUGLASS, educator, author, speaker, and government consultant, needs little in-
troduction in the field of recreation for he is a noted lay leader of the movement and chair-
man of the National Recreation Association National Advisory Committee on Recruitment,
Training and Placement of Recreation Personnel. His address at the Thursday morning gen-
eral session will be “The Next Hundred Years.”

DR. VIERLING KERSEY, an active member of the Los Angeles City Recreation and Parks Com-
mission, is well qualified to give the Congress banquet address Thursday Evening on “Citizens
Offer Leadership in American Rccreation.” He is an outstanding cducator, prcsidcnt of the
Los Angeles College of Optometry, and is intcreslcd in the promotion of new frontiers in

rccreation, outdoor enjoyment, and safe vacationing.

DR. HAROLD W. KENNEDY, the counsel for the County of Los Angeles, will address the Friday
morning general session on “The Philosophy of Rccrcation and Its Legal Aspects.” Dr. Ken-
nedy, a recognized authority on public law, is the author of numerous articles in this ficld,
among thcm “Revenues from Federally-Owned Property” and “Municipalitics and thc Law in
Action.” A scouting enthusiast, he has been associated with the Boy Scouts of Amcrica for
forty-five years. I

RECREATION

For ideas that appeal to the

I M A G I N AT I O N
and provide hour-after-hour

FA S C I N AT I O N
for primary through adult

RECREATION

using the material
)
they on eventrcount—dean,  S a!  
cons ruc Ion, qua l y,

durability and play-ability—
thal Rawlings HERCULITE S E N S  I O N
Rubber-Covered Athletic Balls

have established a new high

standard. They're in a class D F

by themselves—they’re . . .
 ., Crepe Paper
The Finest In The Field!

wommus msmm BUY THESE ILLUSTRATED

O SOCCER BALLS o FOOTBAIIS

uwuucs sronrmc 60005 (0. o 5:. louis o los Angeles o Dallas . Chicago 32 —P  
ONLY50¢EACH

  

So sensationally better are

for the finest

PLAYGROUND
EQUIPMENT "

specify

' r
a
._ .
a. ' I
I
. I
‘ Q
Q. . e
i. ..
l " '
'3
III
‘
i
I I

 

  

    

Convention or call PLeasant 3-2682.

__ e3*___i '__.
I l "- :r - _. . .   I
I a _ -- I
I I
i o i
_ __ u M r t i c..ot.w-139. I
90% En  E  Frgrriii:gch:hlrigM;saci1irsetts E
I I
I I
i Enclosed is $ . . . . . . for (please indicate number of E
: copies) . . . . .. :
While at the Convention l i . l
VI  the Jamison plant _ _ _ inspect E [I Gay Decoratlons (50¢) |:| Fun w1th Crafts (50¢) E
the rigid production controls : l
    E Name . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . o o o . . o . o o . o o o p . . . . . . o . o . o . . E
e a a I I
  —  Ml"    E Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I
i
i

 

0
MANUFACTURING COMPANY P.S. YOU ARE INVITED to visit Dennison Booths—
IBDD S. METTLER ST. . .
L03 ANGELES 3 CAL”, Nos. 46 and 47hat the Natlonal Recreatlon Congress,
' ' Long Beach, Calif., September 30th to October 4th.

SEPTEMBER 1957 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 251

.A—m‘ _—

va

 

The Friday Nighters Club for junior high school boys and girls makes pub-
lic use of Long Beach school gymnasiums from seven o’clock to nine-thirty.

Rather than present a sort of “al-

phabet soup” by listing all activ-
ities in the diversified public recrea-
tion program in Long Beach, California
We are highlighting only certain ones
here—not because they are new but be-
cause their “flavor” may be different or
distinctive.
Sharing—the Key to Planning. The ob-
ligation for Long Beach’s comprehen-
sive public recreation program is ac-
cepted as a shared responsibility. An
employee planning group is composed
of twenty members who represent all
divisions and activities of the munici-
pal and school coordinated recreation
program. It is convened at intervals
when a sounding board is needed for
administrative ideas, for planning im-
provements or for offering new sugges-
tions. From this group’s comments
and reactions, recommendations for
changes in policy or improvements in
procedures are determined. By rotat-
ing the planning group membership
many employees have opportunity to
participate.

The group devises in-serviec educa-
tion emphases so that training sessions
are a reflection of employee needs. To
further stimulate interest and maintain
realistic training, capable recreation
directors are assigned to committees
which prepare the content of training
sessions, and their abilities as instruct-
ors are utilized. These sessions are
scheduled continuously the year round,
except during the busy summer months.

 

MR. GEORGE is assistant director of
recreation in Long Beach, California.

252

Sharing extends beyond the school-
municipal framework, inasmuch as the
group work and recreation division of
the Community Welfare Council serves
as a clearing house for all public and

.private recreation matters. Two speci-

fic examples are:

l. The support of the day camp sub-
committee whieh has made a careful
study and maintained constant vigilance
to assure the development of day camp
sites that can be used by all agencies.
This support has been helpful in terms
of both promotion assistance and inter-
pretation of needs.

2. The annual publication of an in-
town summer program calendar pre-
sents the total offering of all public and
private organizations and is an out-
growth of the coming together of repre-
sentatives from each of the youth-
serving and recreation agencies.
Employee Organization Stimulates In-
terest. Since inception of the coordinat-
ed plan, school and municipal employ-
ees have been responsible for an
effective social and professional ad-
vancement program which serves all
employees. The Long Beach Recreation
Association takes the lead in planning
special events for'employees and their
families, participates actively in the
professional advancement part of each
general employees’ meeting, and spon-
sors projects that stimulate interest in
increasing the department’s effective-
ness. Through money-raising affairs,
funds are contributh by this group
for services not available from public
tax funds, such as hospitality during
conferences, refreshments for the Play-

Public

Duane George

ground Leaders Council special events,
and a scholarship fund for recreation
maors. The program committee chair-
man for the recreation association is
automatically a member of the depart-
ment-sponsored employee planning
group.

Another interesting liaison is the

“new idea” program, sponsored by the
recreation association, which recog-
nizes suggestions for improvement of
program or procedures within the
school-municipal operation.
New Games Add Spice. With inventive
impetus from the director of school
and municipal recreation. a recreation
leader skillful with tools is employed
in the maintenance shop to construct
new games and improve old ones. Act-
ing on suggestions from a municipal-
school games committee, he experi-
ments with innovations which are test-
ed on playgrounds until they are satis-
factory; then, duplicates are made.
These games are rotated from play-
ground to playground and returned.
periodically, to the shop for repair and
repainting. Most of the games are play-
able in limited space and all of them are
easy to set up and take down daily.

Suggestions for purchase of games
not already carried in stock are re-
ferred to the games committee for pre-
liminary experimentation to determine

appeal and durability.

- Traveling Specialists and Strength.

Skilled leaders in crafts, drama, rhy-
thms, puppetry and music are assigned
by supervisory personnel to function
in a dual capacity: first. as face-to-faee
leaders where large groups are assem-
bled for instruction. and, sceond. to
help playground leaders improve their
leadership skills in these activity fields.
The emphasis on faee-to-face leadership
holds during the ten weeks concentrated
summer program.

Publicizing the Program. In addition
to the usual media of newspapers.

RECREATION

Recreation in Long Beach

These interesting aspects of the local municipal and school coordinated programs illustrate
an effective and successful sharing of responsibilities in the National Recreation Congress city.

the recreation department provides a
mimeograph service for the use of
community recreation leaders. Bulletins
printed with multi-colored ink, silk
screen posters, and quantities of pro-
gram announcements are continuously
made available for display and dis-
tribution.

At the local playgrounds, special in-
service education sessions are conduct-
ed on the effectiveness of using bulletin
boards. The weekly bulletin from the
oflice of the superintendent of school,
the junior and senior high school stud-
ent newspapers, the daily announce-
ments on the public address systems in

the high schools, and the daily distribu-

6'15

Another group brushes up on basketball
on Will Rogers Junior High playground.

tion of school mail by messenger all
serve as avenues for publicizing public
recreation. Distribution of bulletins in
classrooms to all school-age children is
readily possible through advance ap-
proval from the school superintendent’s
office. The Long Beach Unified School
District educational radio station
KLON is another usable medium.

Employee Aids are Important. Begin-
ning with nine hours of paid orientation
for all new employees, a number of
working tools placed at the disposal of
each worker helps assure effectiveness.
Clearly stated operating policies form
the content of the Employees Hand-
book for Municipal and School Recrea—
tion. This provides quick reference for
all personnel. Each summer, as 3

SEPTEMBER 1957

Special adjunct to program Operation,
a sixty-page mimeographed manual
containing a master calendar of activ-
ities, personnel assignments, schedules
and program outlines is given to each
employee. A large printed calendar
form for each month is also available
and serves as a reminder of the events
scheduled in advance. Its large size
permits the writing in, by each play-
ground or center, of other program
items. In addition, a four-page mime-
ographed publication, What’s New, is
distributed twice monthly-——with the
pay checks. It keeps communications
Open between administration and field
personnel.

A library of recreation books, maga—
zines and bulletins is available in the
assistant director’s office. Those con-
taining the know-how of games and
other activities are distributed to the
activity leaders and a supply is main-
tained at the central oflice.

To further maintain employee status,
the employee planning group has de-

veloped standard wearing apparel-—not

 

Elementary school youngsters like after-
school play, too. Grounds are well kept.

a prescribed uniform, but practical
clothing suitable for activity leader-
ship. A plastic identification badge,
with the leader’s name in large type,
completes the identification.

Playground Leaders Council. Using the
slogan, “If you don’t have a playground
leaders council, you are working too
hard.” each playground director is ad-

vised to organize a young leaders’
group. Varying in size from six to ten,
these groups are made up of elected
leaders who serve as chairmen of vari-
ous committees concerned with differ-
ent activities and responsibilities. This
gives the recreation director a chance
to keep informed regarding the wishes
of participants and gain helpful volun-
teer assistance, while providing an op-
portunity for the children to grow in
leadership. Members of the playground
leaders council receive appropriate
identification, meet weekly or more fre-
quently to plan and evaluate the pro-
gram, and receive appropriate recogni-
tion through means of certificates and

at the annual “playday.”

Program

ADEX Meets (1 Need. ADEX (adult

excursions) is a club designed for sin-
gle adults over twenty-one years of
age. Although organized informally,
it provides a means for field trips to
local and out-of-city points of interest
more easily visited by a group than
by unattached individuals. Similar
clubs for married people and for senior
citizens are now being planned by the

recreation department.

Youth Clubs Popular. Youth clubs are
divided into two groups, the Canteen

Clubs and the Friday Nighters. Can-

teen Clubs are designed to meet the
recreation needs of older teen-agers—
the senior-high-school-age group. WH-

IL. . rpm-"Ii l'r'u . v

i ”  .. .3"

 
 

     
  

a '3"

 

All ages turn out. Above, a sample of
activity at the Downtown Roque Club.

253

 

Members of the Downtown Adult Club enjoy on old standby—a game of
cards. Games, indoors or out, are among the favorile activities of all groups.

Young people not attending high school
but living in the school district of the
youth club, and under twenty years of
age, may become associate members.

The Friday Nighters are conducted
for eighth and ninth graders at each
junior high school on alternate Friday
nights during the school ycar. The
evenings are devoted to social dancing
and other party activities.

A difierent type of group participa-
tion for the teen-ager has been en-
thusiastically received by junior and
senior high school students. This is
the co-recreational fun night held in
the gymnasiums of various junior and
senior high schools. Natural leaders
from the school’s faculties are cm-
ployed by the municipal recreation de-
partment to direct these.

Government of Friday Nighters. From
the faculty of the school where the pro-
gram is carried on, one director and
two assistant directors are selected, and
paid from the public school recreation
funds. They meet with the youth com-
mittee of the school and plan thc pro-
gram, run the mixers and select the re-
cordings. The PTA chairman is active
with the Friday Nighters and secures
the patrons and patronesses.
Government of Canteen Clubs. Youth
club members a5sume important roles
in planning, organizing and adminis-
tering club activities. Each club has an
executive committee of young oflicers
whose meetings are attended by at
least one adult director.

An advisory board includes youth
club executive committee members. the
paid adult leader of the club, represen-
tatives from the municipal and school

254

recreation departments, the PTA and
the school principal specifically involv-
ed. The recreation department’s direc-
tor of youth clubs serves as chairman.
Camping and Youth Clubs Coordinated.
Municipally owned Camp Hi-Hill, a
mountain camp, is used for outdoor
education by the public schools. The
instruction stall and food preparation
are provided by the Long Beach Unified
School District, and maintenance per-
sonnel, maintenance supplies and utili-
ties are carried hy the city recreation
budget. Other public use on weekends
is reserved for family grOUps under di-
rection of the municipal recreation de-
partnient.

Similar to the city’s use of school
gyms, one of the city-financed youth
clubs occupies board-of-education land
on a dollar-a-year lease for thirty years.
Recreational Swimming. School swim-
ming pools are administcred by the
municipal recreation department for
public recreation use when not used
for school purposes. The charges are
twenty-live cents for children through
high school, and fifty cents for adults.
Suits and towels are furnished by the
board of education which rcceives all
admission money. Board of education
employees “man” the locker and show-
cr rooms and the city recreation dc-
partment assigns the swimming in-
structors and pool attendants (life-
guardsl. The recreation swimming
program is scheduled in live enclosed
pools on a year-round basis and in the
city college “open” pool for daytime
hours for ten weeks during the summer.
At public beaches free instruction is
provided by the recrcation department.

To publicize these opportunities,
teams of lifeguards show water safety
motion pictures at every elementary
and junior high school during April
and May. They see that every young-
ster receives a printed sheet telling him
where to learn to swim.

Sports for Junior High Age. Designed
to meet the needs of highly skilled
youth through vigorous competition
without exploitation, Saturday athletic
contests are organized jointly by the
municipal sports supervisor and an as-
sistant supervisor of physical educa-
tion. TheSe are an outgrowth of the
schools’ instruction program and after-
school intra-mural schedule for junior
high schools.

Recreation leadership for the teams
is provided by physical education teach-
ers of the junior high schools with
school district funds. These men are
employed after school at play directors’
hourly rate of pay. On Saturday they
are employed by the recreation depart-
ment at the regular municipal play di-
rectors’ rate. School facilities are used
for the games without cost, SUpplies are

provided by the recreation department.

Youth Talent Showcase. Young people
arc eager to serve and anxious to be rec-
ognized. The recreation department’s
“Youth Talent Showcase” aflords them
an opportunity for the expression of
abilities and talents in neighborhood
programs. By circulating application
cards through elemcntary and second-
ary schools, a central talent file, clas-
silicd by kinds of cntertainment, is
maintained in the recreation depart-
ment central oilice. Following infor-
mal auditions where each pcrformer is
encouraged and assisted by the adult
leaders of the audition committee, n0-
tations arc entercd 011 each applicant’s
card for later use in organizing talent
shows in all districts of thc city. Each
participant rcccives a ccrtificate of
award whcn he appcars in onc of the
neighborhood or city-widc productions.
All audition rccords are confidential
and therc is no obligation for a pcr-
formcr to accept an invitation to make
an appearancc. Parent-tcacher organi-
zations. service clubs and church
groups who rcquest their assistancc in
programs are rcfcrrcd dircctly to the

young pcrformer or to his parents. I

RECREATION

 

 

 

People in the News

HAROLD L. TEEL, SR. has been ap-
pointed to the newly created post of
chief deputy director of parks and rec-
reation for Los Angeles County, Cali-
fornia. Mr. Teel has been in profes-
sional recreation since 1932 and is a
past president of the California Recre-
ation Society.

WALTER L. FOWLER, a member of the
recreation board in Washington, D. C.,
since 1941, received an NRA Recreation
Month citation for his notable service
to recreation. Mr. Fowler, who is the
District Budget Officer, has made many
contributions to civic and community
life. A recent significant talk by him
was introduced into The Congressional
Record. NRA executive director, Joseph
Prendergast presented the citation at a
District Board of Commissioners meet-
ing in June.

CHARLES HARTSOE, an administrative
employee in the Philadelphia Recrea-
tion Department, has received the first
certificate awarded under the NRA Na—
tional Internship Training Program be-
gun in 1956. He received the certificate

from Mrs. William L. Van Alen, NRA

Board vice-president.

LOU EVANS has retired after forty-
five years of service with the park de-
partment in Seattle, Washington. This
will break up the beloved brother team
of Lou and Ben Evans. The latter is
head of the Seattle department.

Youth Fitness

The President’s Council on Youth
Fitness will convene at West Point, New
York, on September 9-10 for further
study of this all-important problem. Dr.
Shane MacCarthy (see his editorial on
page 244-) is the council’s executive di-
rector, with Ott Romney as assistant
director. NRA’s Joseph Prendergast is
on the Citizens Advisory Committee.

SEPTEMBER 1957

Hats-OE Department

=|= The city housing agency in Vancou-
ver, Washington, has made sure that the
new 1,000-acre McLoughlin Heights
residential area is being developed as an
integrated part of the city’s future ex-
pansion pattern. Neighborhood park
and playgrounds are spotted throughout
the development which will have one
community-wide park and greenbelts.

=1: In northeastern Pennsylvania a long-
proposed reservoir at Wallpack Bend
has been reconsidered by Army engi-
neers after a new study showed that
Tocks Island in the Delaware River
would not only provide a more econom-
ical site but its longer shoreline would
provide “more recreational opportuni-
ties.”

=1: North Carolina is developing 464»
acre Mount JeHerson State Park in the
northwestern part of the state, accessi-

ble from the Blue Ridge Parkway.

=1: The New Jersey Highway Authority
has beautiiied its Garden State Parkway
with 328-acre Telegraph Hill Park, a

former Indian smoke-signal point.

:1: OHicials in Westchester County, New
York, have rejected repeated bids from
the city of New Rochelle to convert part
of the Nature Study Woods beside the
Hutchinson River Parkway there into a
high school stadium. Meanwhile the
county, which has been restricting its
recreation facilities to local residents,
agreed to turn over 650 acres of Mohan-
sic Park for a new state park, open to
all. The acreage will be augmented by
150 acres of adjacent New York City
water supply land. Westchester County
was recently bequeathed a I75-acre
tract, adjacent to the Ward-Pound
Ridge Reservation, for use as an arbo-
retum.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

    
  
 
 
 
  
 

..

x SuperLer Design, ‘
_- Construction and .

PERfORMANCE
J i i

 far greater
' strength and
S A F E T Y !

P lAYG R0 U N D
AND SWIMMING
POOL EQUIPMENT

The wise choice of experienced
buyers for nearly half a century.

WRITE FOR LITERATURE

AMERICAN

PLAYGROUND DEVICE CO.
ANDERSON, INDIANA, U. S. A.

WORlD'Fi :ARGEST MANUFACTURERS OF FINE
PARK, PICNE" PLAYGROUND. SWIMMING
POOI. AND DRESSING ROOM EQUIPMENT

1 sun WIRE "n:

xenour ACTIVITIJ

wars-W

   
 
 

0 Inexpensive!
0 Fascinating!
0 SimpIe-to-do!

This SUJI Cowboy

mode in minutes.

Just a few turns of colorful SUJI wire
produces exquisite figure miniatures,
ornaments, jewelry, party favors...the
most excitingly new craft activity for
individuals or groups. INEXPENSIVE
...less than 10¢ worth of materials
for a simple project.

SPECIAL GROUP
OFFER
Try-it-yourself SUJI
Sample Pack with a
generous supply of
wire, glue, tools and'
instruction: ..............25¢

X-ACTO, INC.

48-99 Van Dorn Street
long Island City I. N. Y.

 

255

Sure-Fire
Sa ety

in ,1

lti lery

 

Boys in Fayetteville, North Carolina, have a BB gun club and
are. taught wildlife protection. Fayetteville is a bird sanctuary.

WHAT’S DOING in Community Programs

I'

n recent years, the rifle club program has grown in favor
lin community recreation departments able to provide the
careful supervision and safety precautions which are a
MUST in such an activity. The clubs attract boys and girls,
men and women, and family groups as well. Air rifles are
used widely with the junior groups.

There is a stimulating satisfaction in hitting a target——
be it with a gun, bow and arrow or merely a dart—which
leads on to the perfecting of skill. You can compete with
yourself or compete with others—in the latter case, a club
is born.

The first activity in a community riflery group, or any
shooting group, is a lesson in proper gun handling. and a
setting up of safety rules,* such as the following which are
used in ranger training:

The Ten Commandments of Safety

1. Treat every gun with the respect due a loaded gun.
This is the cardinal rule of gun safety.

2. Carry only empty guns, taken down or with the action
open, into your automobile, camp and home.

3. Always be sure that the barrel and action arc clear
of obstructions.

4. Always carry your gun so that you can control the
direction of the muzzle, even if you stumblc.

5. Be sure of your target before you pull the trigger.

6. Nevcr point a gun at anything you do not want to
shoot.

7. Never leave your gun unattended Unless you unload it
first.

8. Never climb a tree or a fence with a loaded gun.

9. Never shoot at a flat, hard surface or the surfacc of
water.

10. Do not mix gunpowder and alcohol.

I"These, as well as suggestions for organization of clubs and
operation materials, such as score sheets and targets, are available
from the National 111% Association, a non-profit a3rvicc agency,

1600 Rhode Island Avenue, IN. W.. Washington 6, D. (I.

256

Knowledge about the use of a rifle range comes next.
Some of the experiences of community groups follow.

The Long Rifles

The children at Loring Air Force Base, Maine, have a new
rifle club, the Long Rifles, which attracts about fifty boys
and girls. Organized under the direction of oflicers and
airmen, it is now a member of the National Rifle Associa-
tion. Its purpose is “to teach proper gun handling. in the
hunting field and in the home, and to teach sportsmanship
because sportsmanship and safe hunting go hand in hand.”
Primary Rule: A student who lacks respect for others. or
is unwilling to accept group discipline, has no placc in a
hunter-safety class or in the world of sportsmen.

A skeet and trap group meets during the summer months.
Regular meetings are spiced with range sessions, sport
and shooting films and sociability. Club members have
sleeve cmbleins depicting a B-52 crossed with a rifle and
bearing the legend “Long Rifles—Loring AFB, Maine.”

Demerits

Separation from the club may be achievcd at thc request
of any member or by the accumulation of a total of twcnty
demerits, listed in the club constitution as follows:

I. Horseplay with weapons—fifteen dclncrits: horseplay
during classes—five demerits.

2. Pointing a weapon at another individualmhftccn de-
merits.

3. Absence from meetings—five demerits.

4. Shirking of duties—five demerits.

5. Infraction of the rangc rules—live demerits.

(J. Failure to leave the weapon in proper configuration
( bolt Open when in rack or action open if not a bolt action
weapon)—fivc demerits.

T. Profanity on the firing line or within the confines
of the range, or within the body of a regular meeting of
the elubr—two dclnerits.

RECREATION

Lessons

The following are from lesson outlines for the first four
meetings with the children. All these points were covered
and demonstrated, and the children tested before being
permitted to enter the range and fire.

LESSON ONE. Safety in the field: Methods of carrying wea-
pon (alone and with groups) ; methods of crossing fences
(alone and with groups); carrying a weapon in the car;
storing weapon in the closet; hunting a field in groups
(up to three) ; stalking game; the crawl with the weapon.

LESSON TWO. Exam: Safety in the field and ten com-
mandments; explanation of line of sight, line of bore, and
path of projectile; cause of propulsion of projectile and
twist; triangulation; make triangles and correct sighting
picture with bars and discs.

LESSON THREE. Trigger squeeze and method of holding
breath to prevent wavering of weapon; sight adjustments
for elevation and lowering of the shot group; windage and
effect of wind on the projectile; range rules.

LESSON FOUR. Explanation of range procedures and
rules, including stacking of weapons on rack when not in

 

M '

The children at Loring Air Force Base, Maine, learn
prOper gun-handling and safety in Long Rifles elnb.

use. Fire fifteen rounds each student: five for sighting and
five and five for breath control and trigger squeeze. Last ten
can also be used for sight alignment. Fire prone position.

Sunset Mountain J nnior Rifle Club

“I visited a weekly session of the rifle club in Canter-
bury, New Hampshire, recently,” reports a National Rec-
reation Association representative, “and it is unusual in
many ways.

“When I walked into the church vestry of the old colonial
town of Canterbury it seemed that time had suddenly turned
back fifty years! The room was small, heated by a stove,
and whole families were gathered there. There were broth-
crs, sisters, mothers, and fathers of the youth participating,
and adults either watching or assisting. Chairs were all
lined up on one side and the other half of the room was
set up for shooting. Shooting mats were blankets, target
backstops were cardboard boxes filled with crumpled paper
and backed with tin.

“The Canterbury area has a scattered population of seven
hundred and fifty citizens, and the club has forty members!”

Mrs. Alice Thompson, club leader, tells the story of its

SEPTEMBER 1957

 

Junior Rifle Club using rifle range managed by the
Metropolitan Park District in Tacoma, Washington.
District’s indoor range has twenty-three firing points.

beginning: “One of our members of the Canterbury Belles
4-H Club was interested in having a group of senior mem-
bers (girls over fourteen) form a rifle club and so she was
appointed project leader. L. Harold Bullock, an ex-Army
man, was secured as instructor.

“This was in May 1956. We invited all boys and girls
in town between the ages of twelve and eighteen to join us.
The Canterbury Belles 4-H Club and the Sunset Mountain
Fish and Game Club are our sponsors and permit us use of
their rifle range.

“In the winter we meet in the church vestry, using air
rifles for target practice. When the weather permits, we
will be using the rifle range again, returning to the use of
‘22’ rifles.” The club now includes a course in hunter safety.

Class Attendance Required

The department of recreation in Mount Clemens, Michi-
gan, has a junior rifle program open to boys and
girls aged twelve through eighteen. Shan Cousrouf, a mem-
ber of the National Rifle Association, is volunteer instructor.

All members are required to attend a six-week series of
classes on safety, nomenclature of rifle and ammunition,
correct firing techniques and proper range procedure. At
the end a written examination is given all members.

The club is affiliated with the National Rifle Association
and the members compete weekly to earn individual awards
for marksmanship. So far the girls have surpassed the boys.
The club is also afliliated with the Office of Civilian Marks-
manship and club members fire,the prescribed course for
junior rifle clubs afliliated with the OCM.

The club fires into bullet traps in a gymnasium, allowing
a minimum of eight firing points. The city provides seven
rifles. Additional rifles are available for loan from the
Office of Civilian Marksmanship. The program began with
twenty-six members and has grown to fifty-eight. An adult
pr0gram will start this fall.—FRED M. MERRILL, DirectOr,
Recreation Department, Mount Clemens, Michigan.

F atller-Son Shoots Held

The recreation commission in Emporia, Kansas, Sponsors
an indoor junior rifle program under the auspices of the
National Rifle Association. It was organized two years ago
in cooperation with the local National Guard armory. The

257

 

«L. 

Some of the rifle clubs report that the girls surpass
the boys! These junior misses are members of the
unusual rifie club in Canterbury, New Hampshire.

recreation commission provides the club leader who handles
the organization and publicity for the program. The Na-
tional Guard furnishes the instructor from their unit, who is
paid by the recreation commission.

The program, for boys twelve to nineteen, is conducted at
the National Guard armory indoor range. Adult volunteers
with knowledge of small arms are encouraged to help when-
ever possible. At least one father-and-son shooting contest
is held each season to encourage closer father-son relation-
ships.

The boys are also taught proper care and handling of all
small arms. Safety is of paramount importance in a pro-
gram of this type. They are not allowed to bring or take
live ammunition to and from the armory. The club leader
supervises distribution of ammunition during shooting pe-
riods.—— JAMES A. PETERSON, Superintendent of Recreation,
Emporia, Kansas.

Civil Rifle Range

In Tacoma, Washington, a rifle range is operated under
the management and control of the Metropolitan Park Dis-
trict. Permits are issued to approved rifle and pistol clubs
by the superintendent of public recreation. ‘Vhile clubs
are using the range, provision is also made for any other
individual to shoot at assigned firing points, unless this
interferes with scheduled matches, and providing such per-
son complies with the safety rules and obeys the orders of
the range officer in charge.

This is an indoor range with twenty-three firing points,
all located on the second floor of an old building. It was
constructed through the joint cfforts of the rifle and sports-
men’s clubs and the park board. The clubs raised about
$4,000, and the board contributed labor, lumber, and other
materials and funds.

Issuance of permits. A club may be granted a practicc
night in addition to time for matches. In case two or more
clubs are allotted the same periods one club is designated as
in charge and acts as host club. All others shooting do so
under the auspices of the host club and are subject to the
orders of the host club’s range officers. Applications for
permits must be. in writing and approved by the superin-
tendent of public recreation. Permits may be refused or
revoked at the discretion of the superintendent if he finds a

258

 

club does not present sufficient evidence of responsibility,
has unqualified representatives or has failed to obey or
enforce these rules or the safety rules.

Fees. From the beginning it was suggested that a flat
range fee of twenty-five cents be charged each person on
each occasion that he used the range; however, the facili-
ties are also used one evening a week by the high school
rifle teams, and no charge has ever been made to these
juniors. The range has brought in an income of approxi-
mately $800 per year from the charge to the adults. It is
known as the only self-supporting activity at Point Defiance
Park today. The funds collected have been used for needed
improvements and to defray Operating costs.

Other Programs

0 The Brunswick, Maine, Recreation Commission runs a
weekly junior riflery program from September through
March. Some sixty-odd youngsters, twelve to seventeen
years of age, learn the fundamentals of hunting safety and

marksmanship under experienced leadership, at practically-

no cost to the town. Ammunition is donated for the pro-
gram, and reserve officers volunteer their services as in-
structors. Rifles are supplied by the ROTC unit at Bowdoin
College. The Brunswick Naval Air Station and a ROTC
sergeant worked on and improved the safety aspects of this
fifty-foot indoor range. It is one of the community’s most
popular recreation assets.

It consists of five positions with spotlights on the targets,
control lighting, individual lockers, marking tables, and
wheel-operated target carriers. This is one of the finest
facilities of its kind in Maine.—PENNELL S. EUSTIS, Director
of Recreation, Brunswick, Maine.

0 The rifle club at St. John and St. Joseph Home (for dis-
located children) in Uticzi, New York, is made up of sixteen
boys aged ninc to thirteen, who meet every Friday night.
Instruction is given in safety, care of rifles and marksman-
ship, and target shooting. The club is affiliated with the Na-
tional Rifle Association and is eligible to shoot the Oflicial
NRA Junior Fifteen-Foot Air Rifle Qualification Courses to
earn national riflery awards.

Riflery is probably one of the most successful programs
conducted by the home’s volunteer worker guild.** and the
boys develop a very healthy respcct for “shooting irons.”—
JOHN E. DAPRANO, Cronp Worker at St. John and St. Joseph
Home, Utica, New York.

0 Fayetteville, North Carolina, is a bird sanctuary and
thcre is a fifty dollar fine for any boy shooting a rifle in the
street; so the rccreation and parks department is trying to
give them a place to use their BB guns, as wcll as encourage
the protection of wildlife.

Shooting instruction is given to boys who would not nor-

mally participate in baseball and football because of their j

youth. Propcr handling of a BB gun and all important safety l.

factors is emphasized. This program is conducted only dur-
ing the winter months.—SELWYN ORCUTT, Snperintcmicnt,
Recreation and Parks Dcpartmcnt, Fayetteviffe. N. C. l

""' See “Volunteer Workers in a Recreation Program," RECREA-
rrox,_ December 1956, page 478.

 

RECREATION

w!

New Vistas
in
Recreation for Patients

Maurice E. Linden, M.D.

The new pattern of care in mental hospitals, through

the use of tranquilizing drugs, and its implications for

recreation—as based upon the observations of the

author and other administrators.

THE USE OF the newer drugs, particu-

larly tranquilizers, is changing the
pattern of care and treatment in mental
institutions. Thousands of patients for-
merly regarded as chronically ill and
relatively hopeless, and to whom only
custodial care was given, are now seen
in various stages of rehabilitation in
many mental hosPitals.

Some observers point out that we are
currently in an exciting period in hos-
pital history. We are witnessing changes
in social attitudes toward the mentally
ill; and it is to be noted that into the
hospital therapeutic atmosphere are now
brought programs of group therapy, ac-
tivity and recreation, socializing infiu-
ences, new patient freedom and new con-
cepts in intergroup relationships. All of
these are associated with the impact that
the newer drugs have brought to bear
upon the systems of therapy and re-
search in psychiatry.

Mentally ill persons, who for many
years lived exclusively within the drab
confines of locked wards and regressed
ever more deeply into private worlds of
self-isolation, asociality, and unreality,
are now found engaging in a great vari-
ety of activities, including sports and
games, supervised and unsupervised

 

From an address given at the Interna-
tional Recreation Congress in Phila-
delphia, 1956. DR. LINDEN is director
0/ the division of mental health, Phila-
delphia Department of Public H ealth.

SEPTEMBER 1957

group play. More such wards are being
opened daily in hospitals throughout the
country.

It is well known, of course, that pa-
tient freedom, in and of itself, is not
curative. The progressive point of view
entertained by mental hospital admin-
istrators today holds that freedom in
the mental institutions really implies
freedom to do something. As one psy-
chiatrist has put it, there is freedom “to
make a choice of work, of occupation, of
. . . and how to handle the
situations that arise out of liberty.”

recreation .

The new therapeutic measures, with
the important effects that they have had
upon patient welfare, do not by any
means simply account for an intensified
and accelerated rate of discharge of pa-
tients, as though through some magical
transformation of the people thus treat-
ed. Successful therapies produce new
needs. Patients who for years have
been regarded as chronic must now be
helped to become acquainted with a
whole new world that has developed
around them during their imposed ab-
sence. These mental immigrants must
be educated and trained to resume citi-
zenship in the world of reality. They
must be helped to find, for example, that
new customs, fashions and traditions
have appeared on the community scene.
Yet, of even greater importance is the
need of such patients to be aided in re-
discovering the subtle and refreshing
pleasures in coordinated use of their

bodies, the stabilizing influence and re-
enforcements for security to be found
in the warm and affectionate social in-
terchanges of human relationship, and
the forces for personality-bolstering and
individual self-esteem to be found in the
real world of social interplay.

It is the common experience that in
many instances in which the tranquil-
izing drugs have not of themselves pro-
duced clinical improvement of mental
illnesses, the quieting and tranquilizing
effects of such medications have made
it possible to use the intensive activity
therapies, largely of a recreation nature,
which often result in improvement.

It is pointed out by some observers
that the intensified use of the modern
drug therapies is not always equated
with an increase in'discharge rate. Dr.
Freyhan of the Delaware State Hospital
says in a personal communication, “The
majority of disturbed or disorganized
patients admitted to the hospital respond
promptly to drug therapies in a manner
which permits early institution of social
and recreation activities. Whereas pa-
tients often used to be confused and
therefore unsocial while undergoing
electroshock therapy or insulin therapy,
patients on drug therapy remain intel-
lectually intact. We have therefore ob-
served an increase, which is rather sub-
stantial, in resPect to acute as well as
chronic patients.”

Experiences in other institutions are
also illuminating. For instance, one of
Pennsylvania’s state hospitals, Embree-
ville, has found that the use of the newer
drugs has increased its recreation pro-
gram some five hundred per cent. Part
of this is the result of an increased em-
phasis on recreation, but it is found that
this very interest has been stimulated by
the fact that increasing number of pa-
tients are now able to participate in rec-
reation programs. The number of pa-
tients suitable for ground privileges has
increased significantly.

The state hospital at Wernersville,
Pennsylvania, has found it possible to
remove an even larger number of pa-
tients from the wards. Such patients are
placed in occupational therapy and rec-
reation programs. The increase of the
recreation program has been about fifty
per cent.

At the Philadelphia State Hospital,
the staff has noted at least twenty-five

259

per cent increase in total group activi-
ties, with the use of the tranquilizers.
The patients in the new programs for-
mcrly would not have qualified for rec-
reation participation.

The state hospital at Allentown, Penn-
sylvania, reports that more patients are
going to band concerts, are participat-
ing in baseball games than ever before
permitted; and patients participate in
increawd numbers in,social activities.
Similar experiences have been reported
by the psychiatric group of the Phila-
delphia General Hospital.

The clinical director of the New Jer-
sey State Hospital at Trenton reports a
common finding in most mental hos-
pitals, that there has been no increase
in attendance at recreation programs
from the convalescent section of the hos-
pital. “The attendance from this sec-
tion has always been high and the drugs
seemingly have not caused any marked
increase. Where we have noticed a dif-
ference has been on our active treatment
wards where the state of the patient’s
psychosis has ordinarily precluded par-
ticipation in recreation. . . .”

Most institutions today are finding

-_%

that the improved state of mind of treat-
ed patients creates many new needs with-
in the hospital. While nursing services
and certain other administrative costs
in institutions, such as the food service,
can be reduced and such reduction does
constitute a saving of money, no real
saving is accomplished because more
recreation personnel and facilities are
needed. Hospital staffs have become
more enthusiastically oriented toward
the use of psychotherapy as well as the
related activities having a broad psy-
chotherapeutic effect. In this category
belong recreation services. Hospital
administrators are calling for budget-
ary implementation of recreation pro-
grams; and organized programs are be-
ing established. Adequately trained vol-
unteer workers, whose services can be
utilized in the various types of recrea-
tion activities, have a place in this ex-
panded hospital picture.

One observer points out that there are
certain practical aspects growing out of
the use of the newer drugs which con-
cern themselves with the architectural
designs of new buildings yet to be erect-
cd. Eventually, fewer detention rooms

if (7066 5/3115”! £51144

mer

/2eceea[wn

C, “(than

may be needed; while the need can he
predicted for more activity rooms, more
recreation and occupational therapy fa-
cilities, more out-patient and day-care
centers, and reduced space for shock
therapies.

We are witnessing an increase in num-
bers of mentally disordered patients in
all age categories being released from
The
benefits of hOSpital treatment are perpet-
uated, not only through the continued
use of the newer medications, but, in
addition, by the fostering and mainte-
nance of resocialization activities in the
community setting.

The real significance of recreation as

institutional care to home care.

therapy lies in its capacity to promote, '

foster and develop human interaction.
It awakens the spirit of competitiveness
and of fair play through a pleasurable

system of cooperation. In this way it I

serves as a subli1nated outlet for aggres-
sive drives, as a device for retraining
and restoring the human capacity for
mutual identification, and as a socializ-
ing influence through team participa-
tion. Few human activities offer so much
for so small an expenditure. I

 
  
 

7

If you are planning the construction of an ice skating rink in
the near future and will be in Long Beach for the National Rec-

reation Congress September 30-——October 4, stop by and visit
with us at our exhibition in Booths 1 and 2. We will have on

display photographs and models 0 f the 3.1!. ice rinks we have de—
signed and engineered in the past three years.

TAKE ADVANTAGE OF OUR INVALUABLE KNOWLEDGE AND EXPERIENCE

IN ICE RINK CONSTRUCTION COSTS. . . OPERATIONAL COSTS . . . REVENUE .

. . FINANCE.

PBIEI' [:EII'VBI' Associates 0 70 EAST 45th STREET 0 NEW YORK 17, NEW YORK

260

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

RECREATION

/.“-

Are you looking for different ways to promote partner changes at parties and dances?

For years people have been matching up everything from
color cards to doodles in order to change partners at dances
and parties. Mixers are fun for junior or senior high school
groups if they can be effected quickly without involved teach-
ing of steps. Here are a few which do not require much ad-
vance preparation.

Musical Knees. Boys on the inside, girls on the outside. The
two lines move to the music, in Opposite directions, around
a circle. When the music stops, boys drop to one knee and
girls rush to find a knee to perch on. Play this several times——
the last time around the girl is boy’s new partner for the next
game or dance. Music should be lively. It is even more fun
if there are extra boys or girls. (See Figure 1.)

You’ll Never W all: Alone. When music starts, everyone walks
around the circle counterclockwise in a group. When the
leader calls, “Walk in threes,” they arrange themselves ac-
cordingly and continue walking. The leader then alternates
the call, “Walk alone,” with calls for various numbers—-
fives, fours, and so on——until she is ready to stop the game
and calls, “Walk in twos.” This pairs couples for next
activity.

Spokes. Start eight to ten boys circling in a star formation,
left hand into center. Start music. As they circle clockwise,
the girls rush out and catch on. Each puts his or her arm
around partner’s waist. As they continue to circle around,
another group of boys catch on, then girls. Continue this
until everyone is included. The boy may then dance with
the girl on his right or take her as his partner for thc next
game. (See Figure 2.)

Use Your Head. Select four boys and four girls and give
them old hats to wear. These eight people may cut in on
those dancing, take their places and give them the hats in
exchange for their partners. Play lively music so as to keep
spirits high and keep the hats moving.

: Musical Mixers with Dance Steps

These two new “fun dances”——to replace or supplement
the ever-popular Bunny Hop or La Raspa—have been suc-
cessful with high-school and college-age groups:

Hitch Hiker Mixer1L

RECORD: Pretty Girl Dressed in Blue (Windsor 76143) or
any lively two-step, preferably in ragtime (4/4 time).
FORMATION: Double circle, partners facing, boy’s back to

 

MISS HARRIS, a member of the dance committee of the NRA
National Committee on Programs and Activities, is assistant

professor of physical education, State College of Washington,
Pullman, Washington.

SEPTEMBER 1957

Jane A. Harris

0 O
O x O
o x o + o 4—
“l' 'l" o O O o
X ‘A
o o k 0 k‘l- 49L 0
x X
o 7‘ " o
o + + o 0 o O
x + +
o x O
O O 0
[316.1 FIG. 2.

center of circle. Directions are for boy; girl’s part will, of
course, be the reverse.

JUMP AND HITCH: Measures: I-2—Moving away from part-
ner, take two small jumps backward. 3-4—boy wags his left
thumb (girl her right) twice, as if thumbing and t'urns his
left foot (girl, her right) out twice toward line of direction.
5-8—repeat action of measures 1-4, thumbing and toeing
out toward reverse line of direction with other thumb and
foot. 9-10—repeat action of measures 1-2. II-I2—wag both
thumbs, turning out both feet twice.

DOS-A-Dos: Measures: 13-] 6—Strut tWO steps toward part-
ner (slow, slow) and dos-a-dos partners, passing right shoul-
ders, with four steps (quick, quick, quick, quick) back to
place, facing forward and holding partner’s inside hand.
This figure may be done by taking eight quick steps.
PROMENADE: Measures: I-2—Beginning left, take two steps
(or four walking steps) moving forward in line of direction.
3-4—strut four steps forward in line of direction. 5-6——
repeat action of measures 1-2. 7-8—Boy, turning left, takes
four struts and moves back to lady behind for a new partner.
Girl, turning right, takes four struts in place.

Tennessee Wig “Milk2

RECORD: 0n the Carousel (Decca 28846).

POSITION: Partners face, do not hold hands.

STEPS: Draw step—toes—«heels. Directions are for boy,
girl’s part reversed.

Measures: I—Beginning left, step left, draw right foot up to
left, take weight right (count 1) and repeat (count2) moving
in line of direction. 2—step left (count 1) and clap hands
(count 2). 3-4—repeat above in reverse line of direction.
5-6—move both feet together, toes first, then heels moving
in reverse of direction. Repeat three times. The lady moves
in line of direction. Both move to the right to new partner.“
7—beginning left, take two steps around in place in front of
new partner. 8—slap thighs, clap hands (count 1) and then
clap both of partner’s hands (count 2) . Repeat dance from
beginning, getting a new partner on measures 5-6. I

1This dance was originated by the author and appears in Dance A
W hile by Harris, Pittman and Waller (Burgess Publishing Company).
It is used by permission. The book may be ordered through the NRA
Book Center, 8 West Eighth Street, New York 11. $3.00.

"’T his dance was originated by the author.

aSome b0p and rock ‘n’ roll variations fit in here very nicely for

sideways move to a new partner. Teen-agers will love the opportunity
to use these if they know them.

261

 

Lco Shatin and Wallace Kotter

Rhythm Groups in Rehabilitation

A description of the use of the music rhythm group
as a rehabilitation method for hospitalized mental
patients—especially those who are schizophrenic.
These procedures* are qualitative and do not imply
that a “best” method has been developed.

here does the rhythm group fit into the treatment of
mental patients? What effect does it exert? How?

The simple nature of rhythm instruments renders them
practicable for use with regressed schiZOphrenic patients.
They do not require exhibitionism; therefore, the with-
drawn and shy or frightened patient can participate. 0n
the other hand, the patient who needs to come to the fore-
front can do so with an exaggerated vigor and sweep of
his motions. The wide variety of rhythm instruments pro-
vides a gradatinn'from most simple procedures, such as
shaking a bell and tapping sticks, to more complex actions
with, for instance, a group of drums. The proper instru-
ments may be selected in accordance with the degree of
regression. The patient is advanced to more complcx
instruments and complex rhythms as his progress warrants.
He need not feel embarrassed that his performance is not
“good.” Destructive anger, as well as passivity or with-
drawal, may be expressed in this activity. The materials
lend themselves to informality and a feeling of group
joviality. This is of prime importance where the patient ex-
periences excessive feelings of inferiority.

The activity is group activity. This assumes special
significance for the schizophrenic, whose foremost symptom
is aloneness—emotional isolation and the absence of social
communication:

Rhythm group participation requires action; energy is
put forth; it is centrifugal, a going-out. As such, it induces
the isolated person to bridge the gap of communication.

The sources of stimulation in the rhythm group are
many, and centripetal in that they flow in upon the isolated
patient despite his unwillingness to receive them. Every
member of the rhythm group, cvery patient playing upon
an instrument, constitutes such a source of stimulation.

The leader has an excellent opportunity to form a re-
lation with each of the members, for the vehicle lends itself

 

LEO SHATIN, PH.D. is chief clinical psychologist, Veterans
Administration, Hospital, Albany, New York. MR. KOTTER
is director of special projects for the Hospitalized Veterans
Service of the Musicians Emergency Fund, Inc., New Yorh
City. This article is excerpted from a study published by the
American Archives of Rehabilitation Therapy, December
1955, and is used by permission of authors and publishers.

262

    
  
   
   
    
  
   
   
   
  
   
  

to interpersonal participation. Sessions should be sched-
uled for time and place, with the same participants and the
same leaders. Verbal communication then becomes an in-
tegral part of the setting. Group discussion and group de-
cisions within the scope of the participants are encouraged.

An informal setting for the music activity is desirable.
We have provided refreshments, as available, with musical
accompaniment by volunteers. No matter the level of re-

gression, patients look forward to the rhythm group as a
time of enjoyment and release.

Rehabilitation Goals

An important principle must be kept in mind with music
therapy and rhythm groups, as indeed with all rehabilita-
tion endeavor. Ease of ward manageability is not neces-
sarily a good yardstick for progress. Often, the first step
toward ultimate improvement in a patient is apparent
worsening of his behavior. For example, the passive and
acquiescent “sitter” suddenly becomes excited and perhaps
even assaultive. Although this may create some difficulty
for nurse and aide, it has the more important meaning that
the patient has been stirred from his passive adjustment
to his psychosis. He is entering a state of change. Only
when this happens, do we envision progress to a healthier
level of adjustment. The rehabilitation therapist, whethcr
he be psychiatrist, psychologist, occupational or cduca-
tional therapist, music specialist or psychiatric nurse,
must be patient with such behavior. It is the forerunner
of recovery.

Although the rehabilitation worker should be prepared
for this behavior, clinically we have observed that regressed
patients become less difficult to manage on the ward as a
result of their participation in rhythm groups. They arc
more content and less irritable during thosc days when they
have attended rhythm sessions. This is reported by aides
and nurses. Ward personnel have expresscd astonishment
regarding the degree and adequacy of participation by
patients whom they considered “impossible” for such or-
ganizcd group activity.

\

The Instruments

Music is usually provided by piano, although records and

*Based on experiences with long-term schizophrenic patients
in a Veterans Administration neuropysclnatrlc hospital.

RECREATION

 

The above six patients, in a neuropsychiatric division
of a Veterans Administration hospital, have shown an
improved condition through rhythm-group therapy.

tape recordings may be used. Sets of rhythm band instru-
ments found on the market in the past were, as a rule,
made to be used by children. Because the patients who par-
ticipate in these rhythm groups are adult and mentally ill.
it was decided to furnish them with larger, more sturdy
instruments, capable of greater volume of sound. Follow-
ing is a list of instruments in order of patients’ preferences:
lSingle and double-headed drums, in several types and
sizes, are used along with tom-toms which can be struck
by hand or mallet. These are the basic instruments, and
most preferred by patients in the rhythm groups.

IBongo drums, to be held between the knees and played
with the hands, fingers, or mallets. The single drum may
be placed on a chair in front of the patient. This is neces-
sary with the long-term patient who seldom grips it with
his knees. The double or triple drum consists of a unit
of two or three different sized drums joined together. The
unit can be supported by the legs of the patient. Although
this instrument is popular, it is seldom played properly
despite instruction. Most often it is employed as a regular
drum with a stick or mallet.

'Maracas are greatly favored.

ITriangles are accepted and played, but not so enthusiasti-
cally as other instruments.

IIITune blocks are generally used. However, the gourd tone
block, which has circular corrugations along with its
length, is never employed for its intended purpose.
lTambourines of varying sizes are used as drums by the
patients. Very few will shake the instrument, and then
almost never in relation to the music.

ICymbals in pairs, to be struck together, are generally
rejected, possibly because they make too much noise. Loud
noises generated by the group appear to be beneficially
stimulating, but when made by one person it seems occasion-
ally to distress that person. A single cymbal, suspended
from a looped handle held in one hand and tapped lightly
with a mallet, is in considerably more use.

lCastanels attached to a grip handle are greatly liked by
individual patients, who will keep a steady beat with them
but are unable to accompany in more complicated rhythm
such as in a tango.

SEPTEMBER 1957

lSleigh bells, though frequently accepted by patients, are
only seldom shaken, and, again, in little relation to the
music.

lTuned bells, set on individual blocks, seem to puzzle the
patients and none used them after a short experimentation.
Doctors, aides, and other attending personnel sometimes
increase interest in the proceedings by playing these tuned

bells.

IIICleves are not often in use except by accompanying
personnel. A patient frequently likes to use one as a drum-
stick. Maracas are also pressed into use as drumsticks
when patients are allowed a choice of instruments.

'A small trap drum set, on a stand, comprising snare
drum, suspended cymbal, tom-tom drum, and gourd block,
can be played with drumsticks, mallets, or wire brushes.
It requires more complex actions in playing than any of
the other instruments. Only one or two patients are able to
handle this set with any satisfaction, its proper use re-

quiring natural ability, imagination, adequate instruction.

Orchestration and Music for Long-Term Patients

Attempts at organized orchestration have met with
very little success among our regressed groups, most patients
preferring merely to keep time with the main pulse of the
music. An exception was one group of patients who co-
operated in “Pop Goes the Weasel.” One patient would be
the “weasel” and all other patients would play with the
music until time for the “pop,” when they would stop and
the “weasel” would make a resounding solo “pop” on a
drum or block. Another interesting exception was accom-
plished with a march. One patient would begin alone with
a drumbeat in march time and continue as each instrument
in turn was signaled into the ensemble. After all were in,
the music would strike up in time with the marching beat.

Within our groups, based upon previous experiences, all
music is now chosen for its strict rhythm and well-defined
beat. The session usually begins with a lively march which
conveys the impression that something definite is going
on and demands participation. The lively, loud march,
more than any other type of music, seems to elicit spon-
taneous participation. Loud, rhythmically played popular
music also brings such response. The march is followed
by a waltz—still bright and lively—and so on through dif-
ferent types of music and rhythm. Between selections the
psychiatrist or other rehabilitation worker conducting the
session talks with various patients regarding their par-
ticipation or non-participation, whether they liked the last
selection, whether they have any requests or suggestions.

After its lively beginning, the music slowly lets down
in intensity to a quieter mood—old favorites, mellow popu-
lar songs, and so forth. Toward the end of a session the
music again picks up quite sharply in tempo and tone, there-
by increasing activity and attention and leading to a re-
freshed, congenial mood at the finish. Sessions have lasted
from half an hour to an hour, depending upon patient
mood. Though it is impossible to blueprint a program and
procedure for rhythm sessions, the procedure outlined on
the following ‘page is most often used——with a fine response.

263

 

TYPICAL 50-MINUTE GROUP RHYTHM SESSION

Time Duration

Music Sequence
(minutes)

Bright, lively

Moderately lively

Easy-going 1
Slower, quieter

Calm

Slower, quieter

Easy-going

Moderately lively

Bright, lively

WWDOJO‘IP-I-Jmco

Types of Music

Marches
Popular and Boogie

Jigs and Reels
Hillbilly and Western

Careful consideration in choosing music for the groups
must be given to the mood and activity level of the patients
as well as to their age, musical preferences, and general
cultural backgrounds. During a session no one selection
should extend very long, for the rhythm tends to become
monotonous and the motions of the participants automatic,

Waltzes
Folk Songs and Dances

Old Favorites
Indian and Oriental Dances

Tangos, Latin-American Rhythms

Cumulative Time

their concentration dissipated. Frequent changes of rhyth
help to prolong the patients’ attention and interest. Eac

(mingtes) selection should have a different pulse regardless of it
16 mood.
:1 Other Applications
37 Each rhythm group can service a variety of therapeuti
:2 functions from its very inception. When the instrument
4? themselves are constructed by patients in occupational o
50 manual arts therapy, the patients tend to develop addi

tional interest in them. They desire to play what they hav

Nature Crafts Year ’Round

Cattail Leaf Mats

Although eattails (also known as reed mace) grow in any
wet, marshy area and have been found in limited quantities
and localities even in the arid Southwest, they might be rare
in your area. If this is so, you can try this same craft with simi-
lar longleaf plants, such as blades of tall, coarse grass or long
narrow palm leaves. Calamus leaves can also be nsed;_their
ridged leaves give a very artistic effect. The same general pro-
eedure followed in making cattail mats would apply to making

mats with these materials.

THE winter months are naturally the
most difficult ones in which to find
native craft materials, but that, by no
means, should eliminate nature crafts
from your program. Get a good supply
of catlail leaves now and you’ll be all
set for the winter meetings not so far
in the future.

Mas. HOWENSTINE has been engaged in
native or nature craft work for a num-
ber of years. Readers may have seen
and heard her at craft workshops at
conventions or teachers3 meetings.

264

Cattail leaf mats can be used as
doilies under lamps or vases, as coast-
ers, placemats and as frames and mats
for pictures. A very large mat can be
uscd as a rustic bullctin board.

Cattail plants reproducc easily. Thcir
seeds are windbornc, and they sprout
again from the roots; so there is no
danger of making thcm extinct by over-
gathering in any one area. They can be
found in swampy areas or along pond
shores. Lct’s start from thc beginning
and make a cattail lcaf mat togcther.
Gathering the Cattails: You will need

constructed. The natural rhythm group is thus forme
and the progression from occupational or manual art
therapy to music therapy is a normal sequence. The con
struction of instruments develops an excellent workin
relationship among the rehabilitation disciplines. When the
rhythm group attains some degree of excellence, it can
present programs over the hOSpital radio within wards forl
bedridden patients. Participants therefore derive heighten-
ed self~esteem and personal gratification, in addition to ex-l

tending a service to other persons. I

Alice Howcnstine

a sharp knife and boots. Scissors will
do if a knife is not available. Occasion-I
ally thc whole plant, root and all, can
be pulled out and trimmed later beforei
drying.

As a safety precaution, gathcr morel
lcaves than you think neccssary, for
the thick bases and narrow tips are notl
easily used and some leavcs will prob-
ably crack en route to l‘IOlllC. school
or camp.

1f the cattail pond is on a farmcr’s
pr0pcrty, don’t forgct to ask his permis-
sion. Hc’ll probably be morc than gladl
to havc you gct rid of some of thch
for him for they sprcad rapidly, clog-
ging drainage ditches or farm ponds. 1

Thc wcaving is done with thc dried,1
but not necessarily brown, lcavcs. The
cut lcavcs will dry long bcforc the color]
begins to fadc. Leavcs can bc gathcrcd
throughout the year. Of coursc, the:
morc snows that have fallen on thcmg
bcforc they are gathered, thc shorter‘l
the leaf picces will be, for the weight
of thc snow cracks them. Howcver,
mats twclvc inchcs square havc bcen

madc with leaves gathered latc in win-

*3

RECREATION

ter. If you gather early in the season,
spring through September, some of the
leaves will still be green. By late Sep-
tember, however, the majority have
dried nicely and need little preparation
before weaving. A fresh green cattail
leaf mat looks very nice when it is first
woven, but the leaves shrink and
shrivel a great deal more than the dried
ones, leaving large gaps in your mat.
So, for a similarly pleasing, but much
more lasting. effect, use dry leaves.
Drying: The amount of time to allow
for drying varies with the condition of
the leaves and the season in which they
are gathered. If they are green, allow
two or three weeks; if they are already
light brown, with little or no trace of
green, only a few days are needed, and
often they may be used immediately.

You will need an area large enough
for the leaves to lie rather loosely. To
hasten the drying process, any thick
place at the base of the leaf should be
cut away. This can’t be used anyway,
so you might as well eliminate all the
“water storage space” possible. When
the leaves are thoroughly dry, they can
be bundled together and stored until
needed.
Weaving: Soak the leaves in water any-
where from a half-hour to a few hours
before using. They will float, so bundle
them together and weight them down.
Having the leaves wet while working
not only makes them more pliable but
also makes them adhere to the working
surface so they do not slip around
much. The moisture absorbed during
this short soaking expands the leaves
a little; however, though there is some
shrinkage later, it is slight and does not
spoil the finished effect. If the mat is
woven while green, the leaves will
shrink to one-quarter or one-third their
original width and will be shriveled.

The importance of the leaves being
thoroughly dry before the preweaving
soaking cannot be overstressed. I have
known leaders who have used this as
a spur-of-the-moment craft—gathering
fresh or partially dried leaves and
weaving immediately. Results have not
been at all satisfactory. Others, using
thoroughly dried leaves, have been very
enthusiastic about this project.

Do not cut the leaves to desired
lengths before weaving, but work with
pieces longer than the finished product.

SEPTEMBER 1957

This makes leaves and mat much easier
to handle, especially during the last few
rows of weaving, and the sides will be
much more uniform if trimmed after
weaving and binding are completed.

FIG.A

Begin weaving with only four leaves,
two each way, weaving these together
at the center, as in Figure A. This gives
the mat some “body” from the begin-
ning and eliminates handling too many
loose leaves at once. Use this woven
area as the approximate center and
build out from there, adding a few
leaves at a time to each of the four
sides. Keep the leaves pushed as close
together as possible to minimize the
space created by the slight shrinkage
that comes with drying.

Finishing Edges: After the desired size
is reached, bind the edges to keep the
mat from coming apart. Any appro-
priale raflia, brown cord or string can
be used. Cut a length somewhat longer
than twice the perimeter of the mat.
Double the string, slide the doubled
end over a corner leaf of the mat, so
you seem to be working with two pieces
of string. Now begin to “double weave”
around the mat, as in Figure B. At the
corners twist the string so that one
piece won’t be likely to slide under the
cdge of one of the leaves. Finish off
with a square knot.

FIG. B

Trim the edges with scissors. The
mat may be kept as a square or rec-
tangle by cutting approximately one
inch beyond the binding all the way
around. If an oval or round effect is
desircd, this may also be obtained in
the cutting process as illustrated in F ig-
ure C. Remember not to cut too close to
the binding.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

Completion: Put the mat between news-
papers to absorb the moisture and
weight it for a day or so until dry. If
you like, a coat of shellac gives the
dry mat a nice luster.

Try it, it’s fun! I

 

     
    
     
   

W. D. GRIFFIN CO.

Maker: and seller:

of

long-lasting wood table games.
WRITE FOR INFORMATION AND FREE CATALOG

5927 Euclid Avenue Cleveland 3, Ohio

    

Business Gift, Imprinted Novelties and Adver-
tising Specialty Catalog Sent FREE on request.
Give your clients and customers something to
remember you by.

IDEAL SPECIALTIES

250 w. 57 5:. Dept. RN
New York I9, N. Y.

ICE WHEN YOU WANT IT

with

BELTEMP

artificial ice skating rinks by
BELTZ ENGINEERING LABORATORIES
IIOZI Whittier Avenue
Detroit 24, Michigan. VEnice 9-18”

It you are on the

Board of your
Church, Lodge.
Club. School._ctc..
you will be Inter-
estcrl in thls mod-
em Folding Ban-
quet Table.

I -'  AND
MONROE TRUCKS

Completely fin-
ished tops. re»
sistant to most
serving hazards.
Used with or with- 
out table cloths. _ -

Write for Table and .

Truck Qataloz and Sperm]

price discounts to institutions
and organizations.

Monroe Co.. 181 Church St.. Colfax. la.

 

265

 

Location of Facilities
for
Senior Citizens Clubs

Ronald D. Johnson

primary consideration in providing a year-round meeting

place or center for senior citizens is the location 'of the
facilities. Should they be centrally located in the community
or should they be in the smaller neighborhood areas?

Madison, Wisconsin, with a population of about 100,000
has one centrally located facility to serve all local golden-
age clubs. Plans are under way, however, to form smaller
clubs and to encourage golden-agers to keep attending their
neighborhood meeting places in churches and schools.

Janesville, Wisconsin, almost 25,000 in population, had
one large golden-age club which met in a downtown building.
Neighborhood locations never were considered seriously be-
cause the golden-agers objected to using school and church
facilities, very often the only suitable existing meeting places.
The large club was finally split into seven small clubs, with
membership in any one club not to exceed fifty. These are
organized on the basis of common interest rather than ac«
cording to location of residence. All seven clubs meet in
downtown locations and are now working toward the con-
struction of a centrally located building specifically for
senior citizens.

Oak Park, Illinois, approximately 65,000, has one large
club which meets twice a month at a centrally located facility.
The club is split up into interest groups, each limited to
about twenty members, which are concerned with such things
as reading, discussion, various arts and crafts activities. The
small groups meet weekly in homes, churches and other
neighborhood places.

In Monroe, Wisconsin, 3 city of about 8,000, the number
of active golden-age club members comes close to one hun-
dred. This may seem a large number for a small town; how-
ever, if the clubs were located in the various neighborhoods,
I feel that recreation would be provided for more than
double that number.

It seems that larger cities might need a number of wide-
spread facilities in order to provide a balanced service. Mil-
waukee, Wisconsin, for example, has a highly organized
program with golden-age clubs meeting in the neighborhood
social centers. A single center provided within or near a
public housing unit or at any other location should be only
a part of the total picture.

Centrally located community center facilities usually at-
tract larger numbers of people and provide many more

 

MR. J OIINSON is park and recreation director in Monroe,
Wisconsin. The above is from an address delivered at the
1957 Great Lakes District Recreation Conference.

266

 

. I
I .— H“ I ‘
M a“ mum .«--—-- — m H

WISHING WELL. At the Charlotte, North Carolina,

May Day dance for citizens front seventy to ninety,
golden-tigers again prove May and December do mix.
Today’s senior citizens now have a social life in many
communities because of the interest and concern
of recreation departments and other organizations.

 

activities than neighborhood elubs. In a large group there
usually are more people with like interests than in a smalll
group. Neighborhood clubs tend to group people who already!
know each other, or who are similar in interests and back-I
ground.

Many older persons do not feel at ease in large groups and
prefer the smaller clubs; but interest groups can be formed .
within large clubs that would offer the same relationship
between participant and leader. 0n the other hand, many
golden-agers enjoy being in a large club, with a chance to
meet new people, where experiences and interests are varied.

Duplication of equipment and facilities, as well as the
need for additional leaders are drawbacks of the smaller
neighborhood clubs. Operating costs and personnel may
limit a community to a single centrally located facility,
which, usually, does not require the leadership necessary to
run a community-wide organization of small clubs. Where
desired facilities and leadership do not exist, however, lead-
ers should be able to refer the club members to other places. I
\Vith more neighborhood facilities and smaller clubs, leader-
ship is more effective, particularly where a social groupl
work service is-desired.

A centrally located facility will usually be accessible from '
all points where public transportation is offered. In some
communities a definite transportation problem exists, which I
must be solved through car pools, free taxi service and other 1
means. With neighborhood facilities transportation is still'
sometimes a problem, but the distance is less.

The same methods will not work equally well with any two
communities. Needs of golden-agers differ and needs of the
community difler. The limitation or availability of facilities,
leadership, transportation and interest should determine
whether we have central or dispersed facilities. The decision 
is up to the individual community. N0 program or plan of!1
action should be initiated simply because it is successful else- ‘
where, or because someone has stated that one method is
better than another. Any proposed action should be consid-
ered as it would aerct the local program and the community,

using the experiences of others as the starting point. I

l

RECREATION

. - PLAY AREAS DO DOUBLE DUTY WITH
TWO for TEENAGERS  1. ‘ 527537.95,-

WeH-"hsmted ing Table Tennis Tables!

Easy-Ta-Read

, Superior tables can be stored compactly, can be
INTRODUCING: 1' opened for play in a jiny . . . even rolled
away on wheels by a youngster. Sturdy, rigid
Superior MT1000 Table has edge-protecting
METAL FRAME AND TUBULAR STEEL
LEGS, HEAVY DOUBLE HARDWARE
0N LEGS. Thousands used by playgrounds,

._ camps, schools, military installations . . .
NEE?" wherever a heavy duty table is needed.
optio'nal ' R‘Ouaway casters POPULARLY PRICED: APPROVED BY US‘ITA.

Feature! make it easy to Write for literature showing complete line
clear your Hoors_ of Institutional table tennis tables.

 

.‘l—l  INDUSTRIES CORPORATION
P

 565 Barry Street, New York 59. N.Y.

This first text for teaching
teenagers to enjoy the out-of-doors
describes the setting and need for

outdoor education, its place in

the school program, facilities,

resources, and teacher preparation.  0 t r 
150 pp. $2.50. ‘

PHYSICAL EDUCATION ’
FOR HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS Y

Covers sports, dance, games,

 

zo-Abmam—z—KOb

 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 

OUR GUIDE TO

parties, athletics, and  
career information. It is
the ofiicially adopted text in  !

many states. 406 pp. $3.00

 

More than 225 FREE
films on such subiects as:

O SOCIAL STUDIES

0 HOME ECONOMICS
O MUSIC AND THE ARTS
O

TRANSPORTATION
AND COMMUNICATIONS

0 HEALTH AND SAFETY

Plus: The Latest releases from
WALT DISNEY STUDIOS! (for

 

 

. . rental)
AAHPER Publicatlan-Salas I
1201 -16th Street, N. W... Washington 6, D. C. order your  copy  .
- — — _ — — - ’ — — — - - - - - - — — - - - - - - - — - - - --1
- Outdoor Education for American Youth, Branch Libraries:

$2.50

ASSOCIATION FILMS INC,

347 Madison Ave., New York 17 Dept. R—9

 

RIDGEFIELD, N. J.

-———Physlcal Education for High School Stu-
dents, $3.00 Broad CIT 

 

 

I

I

I

I

I Please send me FREE copy of your l957-58 edition :

I2-9 copies of one title, 10%, discount,    : of Selected Motion Pictures. :

‘0 °' "W"! 2°°/°’ 561 HiIIgrove Avenue : Name I

Check enclosed I] Please bill me C]    : Sch°°l_ i
NAME ....... u  799 Stevenson Street 5 Street :
DAN-AS: TEX° i Cny Zone State I

ADDRESS........  . ......................  “08 Jackson 51,991 L ___________________________________ ___I

SEPTEMBER 1957 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 267

A Matter of POIicy

Policy Making

There is great need for more thought on the subject Of
“policy.” Although policies must be formed to fit the com-
munity, and while each town is different, principles of
public recreation are the same everywhere.

Any recreation executive appreciates fully the value of
policies in the daily administration of his department. for
they are its anchor, framework and backbone. Determina-
tion of policies (using Webster’s definition of policy as a
settled course followed by a government, institution or
agency) is essentially the responsibility of a lay board or
commission. The executive, however, exerts his leadership
by initiative and by providing the advice and information
necessary for determining policies.

If a policy is based on sound recreation principles, it
affords a chance for the board or commission and the rec-
reation executive to show the community what public ree-
reation stands for. In some areas Of the recreation Opera-
tion, such as those of personnel and accident procedure,
policies are easily made. Other policies, especially those
dealing with program or the use of facilities, which can
step on the toes of part of the public, are harder to estab-
lish. They may take wisdom and courage.

An example of this is the matter Of Sunday activities.
Where does the recreation department draw the line in this
touchy matter? It is right to close swimming pools, ballfields,
or golf courses on Sunday afternoon? What about organ-
ized sports that make a boy or girl feel compelled to parti-
cipate? Should department fields be maintained for such
sports even though the department is not operating the
activity? The answers arrived at will constitute the Sunday
policy of the department.

What principle of public recreation is there to guide the
establishment Of this policy? The building Of a well-rounded
personality, a full, rich life? Most everyone will agree that
religion is as essential to the full life as food, rcst and
exercise. In addition, President Eisenhower has called for a
Spiritual resurgence. With these considerations in mind,
should public recreation encourage what appears to be a
trend away from the observance Of the Lord’s Day? On the
contrary, perhaps it should work in the opposite direction?

This would mean, at the least, complete separation of the
department from any activity which requires, in any sense,
participation on Sunday. Optional activities or pickup
games could be played, but no organized league play could
be permitted. Public facilities which are used at the Option
of the citizen could remain Open.

In this day and age no recreation department could sur-
vive which opposed recreation on any day Of the week, in-
cluding Sunday. Let the swimmers splash away, the golf
clubs swing, the baseballs fly. But don’t encourage anyone
to violate his own conscience. Organized play should not
take precedence over the real purpose Of the day.

Another policy which may be difficult to establish deals
with alcoholic beverages in buildings or grounds Operated

268

by the recreation department. It is assumed that no depart-
ment tolerates drinking on the part of minors. The problem
arises when facilities are rented to private adult groups
which bring their own drinks. Perhaps the department con-
trols the only facilities suitable for the meetings of such
groups. Alcohol and recreation do not mix, however. and
age should have nothing to do with the answer.

Making the policy is just the beginning; its application is
the important step. The critical stage can be the introduc-
tion. On controversial matters, strong leadership, tact and
consideration are called for. The thing to remember is that
each sound policy represents a step ahead for the recrea-
tion program and in the mind of the public—ROBERT E.
KRESGE, Superintendent of Recreation, Charleston, West
Virginia.

Los Angelcs County Policy

In order to make possible the purchase Of additional
land needed to meet the growing demands for recreation,
the board of supervisors of Los Angeles County, California,
have adOpted a policy of allocating county sales tax funds
from the unincorporated areas for acquisition and develOp-
ment of local park areas. The following policies have beenI
adopted by the county’s parks and recreation commission.
to implement local and regional recreation services:

1. Provide a wide variety of recreation areas and facili-
ties including local parks (unincorporated territory), re-
gional parks and facilities, such as swimming pools. public
beaches, campgrounds, sports centers, historic sites, golf
courses, riding and hiking trails, system of roadside rests1
and vista points, museums, arboretums. botanical gardens,
inland waterways for purpose of recreation. and reserva-
tions for the conservation Of wild life and natural resources.

2. Recognize responsibility for acquisition, improvement,
Inaintenancc and operation of local facilities and programs
in unincorporated tcrritory until local control is available.

3. Recognize that the provision of facilities and speciall
recreation services in hOSpitals and institutions is the major
responsibility of county government.

£1. Provide adequate leadership, attractive facilities and
a variety Of wholesome recreation opportunities throughout
the year to meet the needs Of all people.

5. Provide adequate funds to finance a capital outlay
program of land acquisition and facility development. main-
tain facilities and establish and operate them.

6. Encourage employment of competent, well-paid pro-
fessionally prepared leadership.

In carrying out this six-point program, the county de-
partment of parks and recreation will observe the followingl
plan of priorities for new development: regional park land,
acquisition; local park land acquisition within the unin-
corporated area; capital development Of regional parks;
stalling of areas and facilities for maintenance and recrea-
tion programing; capital development of local parks.—
From, the Los Angeles County Parks and Recreation Depart-
ment News, A pril 28, I 957. I

1

RECREATION

SEPTEMBER 1957

chosen again for a championship floor

I

I \

SW: i

Wichita University's new Field House is an autstanding triumph
af madern functianal design—with unique lamelIa dame af
structural steel, and cirCUlar seating such that every seat is a
gaad seat. Facus af the structure is the playing flaar, beauti-
fully canditianed by the finest treatment af all—Hillyard
TROPHY Gym Seal and Finish, maintained by daily sweeping
with Hillyard SUPER HIL-TONE Dressing.

moldy—Me 00mm 66m!

Mare than 15,000 of the nation’s finest gym flaars are kept in
tap canditian with Hillyard floor treatments—and wherever
Champianship Basketball is played, TROPHY is the favarite.
Famaus Traphy flaars far .Basketball's Best: Bastan Garden,
Hi...” uf Huck. ChJ-nzpiai; Celtic-3 Kuslsu! I".in Auditorium-i,

N.C.A.A. and N.A.I.A. finals; Madison Square Garden, National
Invitational.

Hillyard specialized products and iabar-saving treatment methods

were developed to meet the high standards
of the new functional type building.

Mail coupon for free demonstrations.

ST. JOSEPH, MO.

Passaic, NJ.
San Jase, Calif.

Branches and Warehouse Stocks in Principal Cities

we 75mm 7m" ‘

Wichita University Field Hausa
Architects: larentz, Schmidt,,McVay & Peddie
Rabbins Hard Maple Flaar install6d by Ciricinnati Flaar Ca.

HILLYARD TROPHY ENCOURAGE‘S
CHAMPIONSHIP PLAY!

light, noturol, no-glore finish enables players and
spectators to see all plays clearly (live or televised)!

Non-slip underfoot for faster, sofer big-time ploy.

Outweors any other gym finish by more than 2 to i.

Maintained with Hillyard SUPER HIL-TONE, simplifies
maintenance, slashes maintenance time and costs.
Keeps t'loor dust-tree and lustrous, yet non-slip and
no-glare.

HILLYARD St. Joseph, Mo.

Please have the Hillyard "Maintaineer-®” show me how easily

I can have a TROPHY Champianship Gym FIaar.

N a m e - a.-- -4. a -- q.- qm- -- - s .1 - am.- :4. -- --¢ gnu-r - — ---- tg- -- -- du- a-dm- b-tu ¢¢-- du- mb dub-m- - - --- a. 4mm -- h-- - du- duh-b—

In stitutian -. . .. -......-.--......-.-....--... ....-.........-....... ....-..... ...-.- ..-....

 -- -~------------—-¢ --------------v~------—----u --r-----. gnu-c as

City .  . _  State.....  . 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

'Muil‘This Coupon Toiluy

A
D
M
I
N
I
S
T
R
A
T
I
O
N

 

 
  

RESEARCH

Information on Drownings

In Facts on, Drowning Accidents, a summary of his doc-
torial study, Bramwell W. Gabrielsen of the University of
Georgia has presented for the first time comprehensive data
with reference to drowning accidents throughout the coun-
try. In the 1,309 cases representing thirty-five states which
were studied, an attempt was made to ascertain the facts
surrounding such accidents. The analysis is accompanied
by a list of implications for education and municipal and
state legislation. The report also contains thirty-three tables
which record the frequency of drownings by age, sex, educa-
tion, swimming ability and many other factors.

Important findings, all of which have special significance
to recreation authorities, are that:

1. People drown wherever there is water, at all times
of the year, every day in the week, every hour of the day.

2. All age groups are susceptible to drownings, but the
danger years are from birth to fifteen.

3. A large number of drowning victims each year are
children under four years of age.

4. A high percentage of victims are non-swimmers.

5. Many people never have had any form of swimming
instruction.

6. More pe0ple drown with clothes on than in bathing
suits.

7. Many drownings are a direct result of violations of
sound safety procedures.

8. More people drown while engaged in other activities
than in swimming.

9. A large number of non-swimmers use small crafts.

10. Many drowning accidents occur at areas not patrolled
by life guards.

11. Many people lose their lives trying to give assistance
to people in trouble.

12. At many drowning scenes there is no one present
trained to administer artificial respiration until rescue
squads arrive.

The report lists specific steps which parents could take
in guarding their children from drowning and outlines the
responsibilities of public education agencies. Specific legis-
lative enactments to assure greater aquatic safety are rec-
ommended.

A valuable feature of the report is a comprehensive set
of safety rules developed with the cooperation of a com-
mittee from the Conference for National C00peration in
Aquatics. One section deals with rules that are applicable
in all situations; others deal with rules for swimming, boat-

 

MR. BUTLER is director of the NRA Research Department.

270 ,-

George D. Butler

ing and fishing and hunting. Copies of the report are avail-

able from Dr. Gabrielsen at the University of Georgia,
Athens, Georgia, for $1.00 each.

Study of Biotic Communities

The Ecology of the Watch-1mg Reservation by James
Baird, issued by the botany department at Rutgers Univer-
sity, reports a study of the biotic communities in this two-
thousand-acre New Jersey reservation administered by the
Union County Park Commission. The report also offers
specific recommendations for the management of these
communities and was prepared at the request of the com-
mission. The volume" should be of primary interest to all
who are concerned with the conservation and management
of reservation argeas.

Since the acquisition of the area, it has been the policy
of the commission “to preserve this entire tract in its largely
primeval state” and, at the same time, to make it more ac-
cessible and reasonably available to picnickers, campers,
fishermen and all lovers of nature by providing roads, trails,

and bridle paths. a

According to the report, the policy of leaving the vege-
tation entirely to itself everywhere in the reservation would
certainly be the least expensive method of vegetation man-
agement. It would not, however, because of the inevitable
decrease in variety as a result of vegetation change, preserve
for future generations certain values enjoyed in the reserva-
tion today. Specific recommendations are made with the
assumption that preservation of variety as it now exists is
desirable. “The majority of the vegetation of the reservation
would best be lcft to the natural course of vegetation
change3’

Detailed recommendations are offered for the control of
old field succession through various stages, such as those
with grasses, herbs, and scattered woody plants, with ex-
tensive thickets, with small grassy glades, rcd cedar thicket
and the young woods. Vegetation control is also indicated
for the marsh, pine forest plantation, the honeysuckle-
invaded areas, the blown-down and standing dead trees andI
the roadsides, among others. The introduction of foreign
plants in the park would be considered detrimcntal, accord-
ing to Mr. Baird. g

A major section of the report is devoted to animal pop;
ulations with a consideration of birds, amphibians, reptiles
and mammals and general reconnnendations for their
management. I

I"Available from the Department of Botany, Rutgers University,
New Brunswick, New Jersey. $1.50.

i

RECREATION

 

 

NEW AND IMPROVED

RYAN’S' H. R: R.

DRY LINE MARKERS

5 DIFFERENT MODELS
From 20# to 'IOO# Capacity

Force Feed — Instont
Shutoit — 50 lbs. ca-

pocity.

Shoker in Hopper for
Constont Flow.

“T he Caller with a Smile in His Voice”

Bart Haigh

Former Recreation Director
, Borough of Dormont, Pa.

J SQUARE DANCE
CALLER

Records or Band

  
 

Adiustoblo Control on

. Hondle.
‘ SAVES TIME AND
a MATERIAL

Send to Dept. R {or booklet on {our other models
H. 8. R. MFG. CO., LOS ANGELES 34, CALIF.

You want it SIMPLE! ' You want 
m WANT BART!

123-35 82nd Road Kew Gordons TS, N.Y.
BOuIevard 1-8855
lColi collect within 50 miles of New York City)

 

 

 

RECREA TI 0N AREAS

—'I'heir Design and Equipment

  
   
   

  

Second Edition. Just Published! Prepared for the N ational
Recreation Assoc. By GEORGE D. BUTLER. Up-to-date book
offers detailed information on the design and equipment of rec-
reation areas, with emphasis on neighborhood playgrounds,
play and athletic fields. 170 practical illustrations, diagrams,
and plans include the official dimensions and layouts of nearly
40 playing courts and fields—plus 14 building floor plans. Fully
explains how to incorporate modern apparatus, equipment, and
game courts into the area plan. Book deals with problems of
athletic field construction with special attention to the running
track, areas for field events, seating and parking facilities. In-
cludes a complete new section on the construction of artificial

ice skating rinks. 9 x 12. ‘ $6

 
   
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
      
 

Il’laygrounds—Their Administration 8: Operation

Also G. D. BUTLER. The enlarged function of the neighborhood
playground and revised space and leadership standards. Book in-
troduces new, up-to-date programs, outlining current solutions to
common playground problems. 21 ills. Revised Edition. $4.75

 Its Play 8: Management

B. E. PHILLIPS. New! Only available book to identify, explain,
and illustrate all phases of one- and four-wall softball handball.

Includes offense and defense tactics for singles and doubles play.
A Barnes SPORTS LIBRARY Book. 50 ills. 6% x 10. $2.95

DFootbull Techniques Illustrated

JIM MOORE and TYLER MICOLEAU. Covering kicking, pass-
ing, line play, etc., book shows beginning player and coach how
these individual techniques are combined in the team’s over-all

offense and defense. A Barnes SPORTS LIBRARY Book. 154 ills.
6 x 9. $1.95

DSOCCER ILLUSTRATED

FRANK F. DiCLEMENTE. Most complete book available on de-
veloping the soccer player. Details and illustrates the mechanics

of each of the game’s fundamentals: kicking, passing, dribbling,
etc., showing how the 11 players move as a team. 113 ills. 6 x 9. $3 I

Order your books from: I

THE RONALD PRESS COMPANY o 15 East 26th Street, New York 10

 

SEPTEMBER 1957 '

 

WRITE FOR
LITERATURE

D IV I H 6 BOA R D

World's Finest Official Board
Rugged Aircrait Girder Construction,
Unequaled in Design, Durability and
Periormance by any board built today.

Exclusive International Distributors

AMERICAN

PLAYGROUND DEVICE CO.

ANDERSON, INDIANA, U. S. A.

WORLD'S lARGEST MANUFACTURERS OF FINE
PARK, PICNIC. PLAYGROUND. SWIMMING
POOL AND DRESSING ROOM EQUIPMENT

 

 

HAT and COAT RACKS

These multi-purpose wardrobe racks go where-
ever needed, or store away like folding chairs
when not in use. They come in 3 ft. or 4 ft.
lengths, have two hat shelves and l or 2 full
length, hanger bars for coat hangers or coat
hooks. (Two-sided hooks snap over and strad-
dle the bar. see detail below). Standard units
come on glides: stand rigidly under a full load.
Special caster bases are available for wheeling
racks about—loaded or empty. Write for Cata-
log CT-515.

VOGEL-PETERSON CO.
II27 West 37th Street 0 Chicogo 9, Illinois

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 271

A
D
M
l
N
l
S
T
R
A
T
I
O
N

 

P E R S 0 N N E L

 

SOS I Danger Ahead!

W. C. Sutherlam

The recreation movement and profession are in serious trouble!

 0U have just read a rank under-

statement! The recreation move-
ment and recreation profession are in
serious trouble. Study the tables below
and ask yourself a few questions.

Who will lead us fifteen, twenty or
thirty years from now?

‘Vhat will be the status of our pro-
fession and the quality of its leader-
ship by 1975?

Where are these leaders coming
from? How are they being discovered?
How are they being trained, developed?

These are the questions professional
workers and close friends of the recrea-
tion movement must answer.

The number of recreation graduates
dropped from 692 in 1951 to 444 in

1956 and decreased still further to 406
in 1957. If this trend is not reversed
sharply and quickly the status of the
recreation profession by 1975 may be
such that it will be impossible to at-
tract even a percentage of the better
prospects to a career in recreation!
The drop in recreation graduates is
more serious than it first appears be-
cause the p0pulation is increasing and
so is the demand. Also, it is not likely
that more than one hundred of the four

MR. SUTHERLAND is director of the
NRA Recreation Personnel Service.

hundred graduating this year will enter
the recreation profession on a full-time
basis. Many will be lost immediately
to the armed forces or to marriage.
Others will never reach the recreation
profession because of more lucrative
opportunities offered in other fields.

Some progress is being made, and
the National Recreation Association’s
recruiting committee continues to urge:

1. Every worker get one recruit.

2. Every state recreation society ap-
point a recruiting committee.

3. Every effort be made to establish
local recruiting committees.

WE MUST:

0 Increase recruiting activities at locq'
state and national level.

0 Expand the Associationis internslli
program.

0 Prepare more attractive material
for local use.

0 Secure more recreation scholarship
and fellowships.

0 Provide more exciting summer job
for recreation students.

0 Provide more meetings at distrit
conferences and national recreatioui
congresses of Special interest to recrt
ation students. I

COMPARISON OF NUMBER OF SCHOOLS REPORTING
AND DEGREES GRANTED IN 1951, 1956 AND 1957

DISTRICT

 

New England

Number of Schools
Reporting

Number of Degrees
Granted

    

1957 1951 1956 1957

——_—-—_——-—_——-——_--—_——

27 49 ‘21

Middle Atlantic

173 78 26

_——-—_—-————

Southern

Great Lakes

100 86 70
251 182 167

 

 

————_——_—————————

Midwest

26 0 1

Southwest

16 3 4

Pacific Southwest

65 17 92

—_—__.___——————-———

Pacific Northwest

34 29 25

TOTAL

 

692 444

NUMBER OF DEGREES AWARDED IN 1957

 

 

 

._.: BACHELOR
o
'8 so
in .5
DISTRICT “3 E
H n.
.862
E
Z
New England 2
Middle Atlantic 4
Southern 8
Great Lakes 7 46
Midwest 1
Southwest 1
Pacific Southwest 9
Pacific Northwest 3
T O T A L 35
272

MASTER DIRECTOR

 

DOCTOR

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a |
v z
E E—
s ‘ 8
3 21
—|
5 26
34 70 I
69 167 i
1 l '
—————.——l
4 4
37 92
10 25
I63 406

i

' Rscnmrma

S'ij '7"

ARMY
SPECIAL SERVICES

EXCITING CAREERS
lN FAR AWAY PLACES

Have fun while you work as a
civilian in Alaska. Germany/ France.
Italy, Japan, Korea. Okinawa and
the United States. Openings for
Arts & Crafts Directors. Librarians.
Recreation Leaders and

Service Club Supervisors.

Starting salaries from $3670 to $5440 per year.

QUALIFICATIONS:

Single girls.

minimum age 23; maximum age
restrictions based on particular
situations. duties and responsibilities
may be' imposed; combination of
college degree and experience

for all positions.

 

"The Choice of Those Who Play The Game”

The MacGregor Co. ° Cincinnati 32, Ohio
FOOTBALL ° BASEBALL ° BASKETBALL ' GOLF ° TENNIS

If you meet these basic
requirements write for complete brochure

The Adiutant General
Department of the Army

Washington 25, D. C.
Attention: AGMZ-R IGTQI

 

 

 

 

"'33::le l.-  jgyfm

Stanaclalild l— l MUTTT‘PUI’POSO

    

  
  

“I” ° lb" ALUMINUM $1
"iii‘.it.'.';‘.’|— STANDARD THIS at...
' . area? BIG ILLUSTRATED
HIgh grim . ’2

LEATHERCRAFT

Adiustable
Eyebaits o vourr nu o nammou
o scams 0 neat: screws

0 HIGH JUMP 0 TETNEIIALI.

 

' SEPTEMBER 1957

   
 

J Official specifications

J Lightweight

J Easy to Install and move
J No maintenance

J Six different models

Jay »

BASKETBALL

STEEL CHAIN
NETS

3 Yea rs Gua ra nteel
outdoors or indoors

Indoor
Base Plate
only 9 Lbs.

 

Also Featuring Jayfro’: Curtom Built
New and Improved!

1/ PADDLE TETHERBALL SETS
1/ TETHERBALL POLES

Revolutionary and Exciting New!

1/ SHUFFLEBOARD SETS
with “RUBBER CUSHiONED" DISCS

i/OFFICIAL TOO°/° NYLON Basketball

Nets and Nylon Ball Carriers
0 Send for Free Catalog '

JAYFRO ATHLETIC SUPPLY CO.
Dept. RC, Box 1065, NEW LONDON, CONN.

 

V
with SAFET

OOOOOOOOOOOOOOO

HOBBY HORSE SWING
Excitement—adventure—fun and exercise.
They’re all combined in this heavy duty
Burke-Built Hobby Horse Swing . . . with
complete safety. Three paint suspension
keeps seat level at all times. No pushing
necessary—even a tot can create his own
momentum.

KIDDIE GLIDER

A companion piece to the Hobby Horse
Swing. Two can find adventure together
in Burke’s Heavy Duty Kiddie Glider and
they can’t bang their heads, pinch their
legs, or swing too high.

Burke builds a complete line of swings,
slides, and playground equipment for
schools, hospitals, institutions, cities and
recreation areas, including several new
and completely tested revolutionary units
for playgrounds everywhere.

For complete information write Dept. A

“figmésgrrw

FOND DU LAC, WISCONSIN
NEW BRUNSWICK, NEW JERSEY

 

CATALOG

There is no liner source of materials for Leather-
craft praiects of oil klnds . . . eosy-to-assemble
kits to enable beginners to make biilfoids,
giaves, purses, belts and other attractive items
. . top quality tooling and carving leathers
for advanced craftsmen. Also complete line of
Leathercraft tools, accessories, supplies and
instruction books.

ATTENTION

METALCRAFT

HOBBYISTS

Here is a comprehensive Illustrated catalog
from which you can make your selection of
aluminum and copper in sheets and shapes for
many praiects; copper, aluminum and brass
fail for metal tooling; kilns, colors and kits
for metal enameling; Instruction books, tools
and accessories for metalcraft of all kinds.

SEND TODAY FOR EITHER
OR BOTH FREE CATALOGS

l. C. LARSON CO.

820 S. TRIP AVE., DEPT. 7205
CHICAGO 24, ILLINOIS

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 273

Books & Pamphlets
Received

BASKETBALL SCORE BOOK FOR GIRLS
AND WOMEN—Official NSCWS.
American Association for Health,

Physical Education, and Recreation,

1201 Sixteenth Street, N.W., Wash-
ington 6, D. C. Unpaged. Paper $.75.
CHAMPIONSHIP BASKETBALL ( Second
Edition), Adolph F. Rupp, Prentice-

Hall, Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey.
Pp. 225. $4.95.

DEAR GARBAGE MAN, Gene Zion (pic-
tures by Margaret Bloy Graham).

     

INDEX OF ADVERTISERS

 

PAGE
American Association for Health. Physical

Education and Recreation ......... ".._..- 267
American Playground Device

Company MMMM __._ 255 & 271
Army Special Services .._...___-m_273
Association Films. Inc. ___.___..._.. .. .._ 267
Beltz Engineering laboratories .. _ 265
The J. E. Burke Company _..._1.. _ 273
California State Personnel Board . - 274
Peter Carver Associates -._.--_.____. _ 260
Castello Fencing Equipment  -.._ 245

Chicago Roller Skate Company
Outside Back Cover

1 —m.. .._.— -_--.-_..—

 

 

 

 

Crown Publishers .1-.-__m__--__----___._-__.. 248
Dennison 1....--_..___--___.____A ___.__-___ 251
Greenwich Book Publishers _.  - __ 274
W. D. Griffin Company -.....--...-  . 265
H. & R. Manufacturing Company _.._.  271
Bart Haigh _. ______________________ ._ .._. 271
Harvard Table Tennis Company __.____. .._- 241
Hillerich & Bradsby,--.----.._.___lnside Front Cover
Hillyard H-141“.-- L Mama.-.“ 269
Ideal Specialties _. s. 265
Jamison Manufacturing Company ._ _ . 251
Jayfro Athletic Supply Company __ _ 273
Kalah Game Company .._._.._._______._. _ 275
J. C. Larson Company 1.1,- .._... _ 273
The MacGregor Company . 273
Mal's Recording Service .._ .._ . 245
McGraw-Hill Book Company . 275
Monroe Company A.._--.___- 265
National Rifle Association _ . 247
Newcomb Audio Products Company . 242
Nissen Trampoline Company ______ _..... 247
Parks 8. Recreation _ ________  .. 275
Rawlings Sporting Goods Company 251
The Ronald Press Company .._. _____ --_ 271
Superior Industries Corporation -- 267
Union Metal Manufacturing Company 249
Vogel-Peterson Company A ............... ._ .271
Voit    242
X-acto. Inc. - 255
274

Harper & Brothers, 49 East 33rd
Street, New York 16. Unpaged.
$2.00. ~

FACT BOOK ON CHILDREN IN NEW YORK

CITY. Community Council of Greater
New York, 44 East 23rd Street, New

York 10. Pp. 145 (mimeographed).
$2.00.

FESTIVAL MENUS ’ROUND THE WORLD,
Sula Benet. Abelard-Schuman, Ltd.,
404 Fourth Avenue, New York 16.
Pp. 196. $3.50.

GARDENING IN A SMALL GREENHOUSE,
Mary Noble and J. L. Merkel. D.
Van Nostrand Company, 120 Alex-

ander Street, Princeton, New Jersey.

Pp. 236. $4.95.

GUIDE FOR GAMES, A, D. Cyril J oynson.
Philosophical Library, 15 East 40th
Street, New York 16. Pp. 302. $7.50.

HOW TO MAKE CONTAINERS AND ACCES-
SORIES FOR FLOWER ARRANGEMENTS,
Jean B. Amer and Alma L. Gray.
Hearthside Press, 118 East 28th
Street, New York 16. Pp. 128. $3.50.

HOW TO WIN CHESS GAMES QUICKLY,
Fred Reinfeld. Barnes & Noble, 105
Fifth Avenue, New York 3. Pp. 157.
Paper $1.25.

MARIONETTES, Mildred M. Osgood.
School Products Company, 330 East
23rd Street, New York 10. Pp. 19.
Paper 3.75.

101 FUNNY THINGS TO MAKE AND DO,
Paul Castle. Sterling Publishing
Company, 121 East 24th Street, New
York 10. Pp. 124. $2.00.

PIONEERS IN SERVICE, Barbara Miller
Solomon. Associated Jewish Philan-
thropies, 72 Franklin Street, Boston
10. Pp. 197. $3.00.

ROLE PLAYING IN LEADERSHIP TRAINING
AND GROUP PROBLEM SOLVING, Alan
F. Klein. Association Press, 291
Broadway, New York 7. Pp. 176.
$3.50.

SKETCHING AND PAINTING INDOORs, Per-
cy V. Bradshaw and Rowland Hilder.
Studio-Crowell, 432 Fourth Avenue,
New York 16. Pp. 96. $6.00.

TUMBLING TECHNIQUES ILLUSTRATED.
Ted Burns. Ronald Prcss, 15 East
26th Street, New York 10. Pp. 96.
$3.00.

YACIITING ..WORLD ANNUAL — 1957.
PhiIOSOphical Library, 15 East 40th
Street, New York 16. Pp. 192.
$10.00.

YMCA STANDARDS: STANDARDS FOR
ADULT PROGRAM IN TIIE YMCA;
STANDARDS FOR YMCA YOUTII PRO-
GRAM (Revised 1956). Association
Press, 291 Broadway, New York 7.
Pp. 45 each. $.75 each.

 

Periodicals

 

MODEL AIRPLANE NEWS. 551 Fifth Ave:

nue, New York 17. Published month-
ly; single copies $.35; $3.50 per yea

Magazine Articles

CALIFORNIA PARENT-TEACHER, Febru
ary 1957

Are We Mice or Men? (Television),

Mrs. E. 1. Ash. '

INDUSTRIAL SPORTS AND RECREATION,
February 1957
Making a Speech? Wood Victor.

NATIONAL PARENT - TEACHER, March
1957

Getting Tough Doesn’t Help (Juve'I

nile delinquency), Elizabeth Mc-

Cain.

Safeguarding Children’s Rights: A

Report of the National Congress:
Conference on Juvenile Protection:

NEA JOURNAL, A pril 1957 -

There is Always Room for Beautyl
Ruth K. Carlson. '

, May 1957 -

The Gift of Time (Coming changes
in American life), August Heck
scher.

PARENTS’, May 1957 ‘
Day Camp in the Driveways (Recreaa

ation in a housing project), Betty
Friedan.

SCHOOL ACTIVITIES, February 1957
Developing Potentialities in the Ex-
traclass Activities, Robert L. Garry
tert and Dale Hunter.
Do School Activity Programs Build

Better Intergroup Relations ? Craci
Graham.

What’s Wrong with Athletics, Albell
M. Lerch.

, Afarch, 1957
An Early Childhood Play Program!
Milton. V. Rose, Gertrude Rubin

owitz, and Diane Firestone.

BOOK MAN USCRIPTS

CONSIDERED

by cooperative publisher who offers authors early
publication. higher royalty, national distribution. and
beautifully designed books. All subjects welcomed.
Write. or send your manuscript directly.

GREENWICH BOOK PUBLISHERS
Attn. Mr. Hitchcock 489 Fifth Avenue
New York 17, N. Y.

    

 

 

 

      
       
     
        

RECREATION THERAPIST \"'j

In Californio State Haspitals. Fifteen new po-
sitions ore open to college graduates with
molar in Recreation or Recreation Therapy and
supervised field work. Opportunlites far or!-
voncement from $376 to 5644 o month. Inter-
views at Notlonoi Recreatian Congress, long
Beoch, September 29 ta October 4. Inquire ot

Registration Desk for lee Helsel. State's repre-

sentotive, or write Catifornlo State Personnel
Board. 801 Capital Avenue, Sacromento. Calif.

RECREATION

* FOUR IMPORTANT
Mo cam-04d! GUIDES
q k/

for Recreation Leaders and Teachers

PLAY ACTIVITIES FOIt
BOYS AND GIRLS (6-12)

A Guide for Teachers, Parents, and Recrea-

tion Leaders

By RICHARD KRAUS, Columbia University.
250 pages, $4.95

This new book of timely interest describes the underlying
values of youthful play, and gives examples of successful
play programs. It gives many specifically helpful sugges-
tions and guides for working with groups of children as
A150 well as clearly-written directions for a wide variety of activ-
o BOSTON (a typical case) started live ities including active and inactive games; musical play and
years ago with one KALAH game for singing; folk and creative dancing; arts and crafts; and
each of 90 centers. Repeat orders each dramatics. Recent advances on play programs and up-to-
year since for a number of games so date material on childhood development are included.

there are now several KALAH games * * it
for each playground.
RECREATION LEADER’S

SEE UNUSUAL EXHIBIT AND ASK FOR DEMONSTRATION
IIANDBOOK

AT BOOTH N0. 30
By RICHARD KRAUS. Series in Health Ed-

Copy of simple rules replrinted from 1956 UNICEF
Recreation Kit sa ied ree u on re aest. . .
W i p q ueation. thsical Edncatton and Recreatlon. 312
pages, $5.75 a

KALAH Is POPULAR IN SCHOOLS, COMMUNITY CENTERS,

AND ON PLAYGROUNDS ACROSS THE NATION.
This outstanding work provides a practical, down-to-earth
discussion of social leadership objectives and techniques

  co. applied to the recreation needs of groups of all sizes and

' ages. It covers the background of social recreation in this

  country, the role of recreation in everyday life, leadership
objectives and techniques in working with recreation
groups, and a wide variety of time-tested acceptable ma-
terials. There is an extensive treatment of program plan-
ning to meet the needs of different types of groups.

it * it
INDUSTRIAL RECREATION

A Guide to Its Organization and Administration

By JACKSON M. ANDERSON, National In-

dustrial Recreation Association. Series in Health
Education, Physical Education, and Recreation.

FOR: 334 pages, $5.00

. You The first complete book on the increasingly important

subject of industrial recreation. It is intended as a guide
to recreation directors in administering employee rec-
reation programs, and for those who wish to study its or-
ganization and administration. In addition to specific
recommendations on planning and initiating a program,
its activities, leadership and financing, there is a thorough
discussion of the history of employee recreation and its
benefits to industrial relations.

it * it
INTRODUCTION TO

 

 

 

REG. U.S. PAT OFF. 8/28/'45
Pat. No. 2,720,362; 0,165,739; 165,634

TWO SPONSORS OF THE 39th NATIONAL REC-
REATlOl\T CONGRESS APPRECIATE KALAH:

0 Initial order for 100 No. 14 B KALAH Games from
the Los ANGELES COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF REC-

REATION
o 150 KALAH Games used by the LONG BEACH UNI-
FIED SCIIOOL DISTRICT

1 ,_ _ _
l-llEfllEllIlllll

A
"-—- '-MAOAIINI' :

Your Board

Your City
Officials

Your Key
. Personnel
Your Informed
. Lay Supporters

FOR PARK AND RECREATION
SUPERINTENDENTS . . . tech-
niques described by practical
men in the field.
BALANCED EDITORIAL FOR—
MULA . . . the voice of the pro-
fessional on land acquisition,
design, construction, recrea-
tional usage, administration and
maintenance . i . a complete
coverage.
A QUALITY PRODUCT . . . fine
paper, printing, photos, maps
and editorial approach.

SERVING THE PARK AND RECREATION FIELDS SINCE 1917.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
One year ..  S 5.00

PARKS 5 RECREATION . . .
only national magazine designed
for both Dark and recreation
administrators.

EACH MONTH . . . the most
“referred to" publication In its
field . . . a must for your
reference library.

ALL USABLE INFORMATION
. no fiction. no “fairy tales"
avidly read from cover to cover
. send for your free sample

and judge for yourself.

COMMUNITY RECREATION

By GEORGE D. BUTLER. McGraw-Hill Series
in Sociology and-Anthropology. Second Edition.
548 pages, $6.00

A popular book dealing with those forms of recreation
which require a large degree of organization and leader-
ship, and in which participation plays an important part.
All aspects and phases of community recreation are pre-
sented, with recent deveIOpments included. Recreation
is analyzed and a comprehensive bibliography is offered
to facilitate reference work. It is a clear and well-organ-
ized text, without a peer in community recreation.

Two years .  .. 9.00 Department RN
Three years .  13.00 Oolebay Park

Groups of tour or more—one Wheelino'we“ Virginia
year 54.00 each per your. publisher

SEND FOR COPIES ON APPROVAL

McGraw-Hill BOOK COMPANY, Inc.

330 West 42nd Street, New York 36, N. Y.

 

 

SEPTEMBER 1957 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 275

 

“Where Did You Go?” “Out.”

Robert Poul Smith. W. W. Norton &
Company, 55 Fifth Avenue, New York
3. Pp. 124. $2.95.

This delightful book, well-titled, is

all about how it was when you were a
youngster—and how things have de-
teriorated since. What has happened
to the magic of childhood?

It is written by someone with tender
memories and a humorous, heartwarm-
ing style, and it is bound to appeal to
anyone who was ever small and be-
lieved that the grownup was the na-
tural enemy of the child, and to anyone
who once called marbles “immies,” or
played mumbly-peg, or collected horse
chestnuts, round stones, or bruises. It
offers information about youngsters, in
such a way that it is sheer fun to read.

“The thing is,” writes the author, “I
don’t understand what kids do with
themselves anymore . . . l was with a
bunch of kids a week ago, ranging in
age from ten to fourteen (to forty-one.
counting me) . . . 1 said to them, ‘How
about a game of mumbly-peg? And
can you believe that not one of these
little siblings knew spank-the-baby
from Johnny-jump-the fence?”

This is a “natural” for parents,
leaders, and all the young-in-heart.

Schools for the New Needs
Educational, Social, Economic

F. W. Dodge Corporotion, 1 19 West
40th Street, New York. Pp. 312. $9.75.

In view of the rapidly expanding
school-construction program and the
increasing emphasis upon the use of
school buildings for community recrea-
tion, it is important that recreation au-
thorities become familiar with trends
“in schoolhouse design. This volume,
covering sixty-six new school plans,
contains material previously published
in the Architectural Record, and is an
excellent source for information on the
design and construction of school
buildings. Many of the illustrations
and plans relate to facilities commonly
used in connection with the community
recreation program.

In view of the current emphasis upon
cooperative planning between school

276

Covering the Leisure-time Field

and city authorities, it is disappointing

' to find little indication in the volume

that such planning has a place in the
development of the school plant. It is
possible that many of the school build-
ings described have been designed on
the basis of cooperative planning—one
specific example is a junior high school
in Seattle—but most of the general ar-
ticles contain no reference to planning
for community use, let alone coopera-
tive planning to this end. In spite of
these limitations, the profusely illus-
trated volume merits careful study.

Believe and Make-Believe

lucy Sprogue Mitchell ond lrmo
Simonton Block, editors. E. P. Button
8. Compony, 300 Fourth Avenue, New
York 10. Pp. 190. $3.00.

Above all, children love to listen to
spontaneous stories. In lieu of a par-
ent or teacher who can make up stories
for Johnny with him as the hero, Be-
lieve and Maire-Believe is a fine sub-
stitutc. It can be a means of helping
the adult to see the value of the story
in supplying magic and glamour to
everyday routine and to see every day
through the child’s eyes. It can also
he a means of stimulating the adult
to creative compositions of his own to
satisfy the needs of his child or his
group—Grace Stanistreet, director,

~Children’s Theatre, Adelphi College,

Garden City, New York.

Social Growth Through Play
Production *

Jock Simos. Associotion Press, New
York City, New York. Pp. 192. $3.75.

In'this stimulating and instructive
book, Mr. Simos is asking that we ac-
cept what may, at first, be considered
a new frontier in drama. And yet this
is only apparently so, for drama, by
its very nature, has always contributcd
directly or indirectly to the discovery
of new frontiers of human growth and
understanding.

This is not just another book about
drama or drama techniques; neither
is its use designated for any specific

'"Available from NRA Recreation Book Cen-
ter, 8 West Eighth Street, New York 11, N. Y.

 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
   
 
 
  

group or professional area. It use
for its point of direction and premise-
not so much what we do as why we
do it, for Mr. Simos believes that, to
be effective, “inner justification” is
the first approach. He addresses him-
self to the social worker, teacher, rec-
reation leader, drama director, or any
person or persons desiring to chart in-
dividual and group experiences through
drama activity.

To delineate and make clear drama’
part in social growth, he brings to-
gether what we may at first-consider
unrelated fields—play production and
social work. In both fields, however,
knowledge of human nature, human
behavior and life are sought, though
purposes and motivations for acquir-
ing it may differ.

It is not suggested that the drama
director consider play production as
therapy, but rather that he recognize
the great therapeutic value of such an
activity in growth and development.
On the other hand, the social worker
may use such a ,tool in helping “his
client with personal problems.” This
is the basic idea expressed in the whyJ

The remainder of the book gets
down to cases in a step by step method
of creatively directed play production.
Concrete examples drawn from experi-
ences in a community center, college
and treatment center give detailed in-
formation on the process—the how.

Mr. Simos is a student of both drama
and social work, having studied widely
in both fields. If one believes that drama
at its highest and best may become a-

social force, this is a book of great
value—Grace Walker, NRA drama and
creative recreation specialist.

Play Activities
for Boys and Girls*

Richord Krous. McGrow-Hill, 33C

West 42nd Street, New York 36. Pp.
236. $4.95.

This book is organized into two ma
jor sections. The first is on “Guiding
Children’s Play”———the value, the tech
niquc of leadership, the settings, tlu
reasons why ehildrcn select certain ac
tivities. This section could be the basi:
for a series of staff meetings.

The second section dcals with activi
ties, from active games on througl
creative rhytluns, dancing, lnusie, na
ture activities, special events and s:
on. A chapter on evaluating children'
play and a carefully selected listing 0
suggested rcading make a fitting con
clusion to this well-organized book.

The publisher has given it an attrar
tive binding. cxcellcnt paper, very lcg
iblc print. The result is a book that
belongs in any recreation: library.

RECREATIOI

Recreation Leadership Courses

Sponsored by the National Recreation Association
and

Local Recreation Agencies

September, October and November, 1957

HELEN M. DAUNCEY Abilene, Texas Scott Fikcs, Director of Parks and Recreation, Fair Park
Social Recreation Ocmher 21°24
{UTH G. EIILERS Canton, Ohio C. W. Schnake, Recreation Director, Memorial Auditorium
Social Recreation OCIOher 2331
State of Vermont Mrs. A. O. Brungartlt, Vermont Director of Recreation, Montpelier

November 5-14

ANNE LIVINGSTON Athens, Ohio Miss Margaret Deppcn, Dean of Woman, Ohio University
Social Recreation septembef 16-17

FRANK A. STAPLES Klamath Falls, Oregon Robert Bonney, Director, Parks and Recreation, City Hall
Arts and Crafts OCIObCI' 21-31

Miss Dauncey will he conducting social recreation courses in the Southwest Area October 14-November 21. For more information
as to location of these courses, write directly to the National Recreation Association, 8 West 8th Street, New York 11.

Mr. Staples will be at Air Force Bases conducting two-week arts and crafts courses as follows: November 4-14, Warren Air Force
Base, Cheyenne, Wyoming; November 18-28, Lowry Air Force Base, Denver, Colorado. For further details, communicate with the
Air Force Regional Representative, Howard Beresford, 3055 Bellaire, Denver, Colorado.

Miss Dauneey and Mr. Staples will he in attendance at the 39th National Recreation Congress, Long Beach, California, Septem-
ber 30-Octoher 4.

Attendance at training courses conducted by National Recreation Association leaders is usually open to all who wish to attend.
For details as to location of the institute, contents of the course, registration procedure, and the like, communicate with the sponsor
of the course as listed above.

Order N 0“? and SAVE!

BINDERS for W

0 Blue heavy simulated leather stamped in gold

0 Each holds one year’s issues 0 Opens Flat for changes

1954, 1955, 1957, 1958 and Undated

$3.00 each
After January 1, 1958 the price will be $3.50

RECREATION MAGAZINE, 8 West Eighth Street, New York 11

 

For Exercise and Recreation

N YOUR GYM

More youngsters can be active in a given
area through roller skating than in any
other sport...and it’s fun. Little equip-
ment is needed, little supervision is neces-
sary. That’s why more and more schools
are making roller skating a definite part of
their physical education and recreation
programs. Why not inquire today!

 

4490—1 West Lake Street, Chicago 24, Illinois

 

 

NEW DURYTE PLASTIC WHEELS
ARE KIND

T0 GYM FLOORS

     

New Duryte plastic wheels have a
long life and are guaranteed not to
mar or scratch gym floors. "Chi-
cago” has a skate designed for every
type of floor surface or finish. Write
today for free details on roller skat-
ing programs and skating equipment.

 

