 

   

1"

FOR SUPERIOR DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION
AND PERFORMANCE . . . FAR GREATER

STRENGTH . . .

 
  

Write for Folder
On AMERICAN’S
JIM PATTERSON

ll FETIME
Aluminum
D I V I N G

B O A R D
woaw's rmssr

OFFICIAL BOARD

Sports 

\

.‘h-
‘ O ‘
l I u  u  
. . -- 1 1
) [I I!
l . 5 1/24
3 I II..._-"
'.. A."
.,
O

"The Choice of Those Who Play The Game”

) _ '
I

      

UNEQUALLED SAFETY. . .

AMEIIIBAN

   
 

PLAYGROUND
SWIMMING POOL
and DRESSING ROOM

EQUIPMENT

Since l9ll the finest equipment built,
backed by lifetime guarantee against
defective materials and construction

. specified by leading recreational
authorities for almost half a century.

Send for New Catalog

..__ ,_ _ __ . ._ _d_ _.___ _._._,

1, w_._...\

ARICN

PLAYGROUND DEVICE CO.

ANDERSON, INDIANA, U. S. A.

W’V"""~. moms“? k'"l"“"“RF°’i r= r'Nl‘
PM. ' .-- I a : n _..n. r U
‘ -- g. u

 

The MacGregor Co. ° Cincinnati 32, Ohio
FOOTBALL ° BASEBALL ° BASKETBALL ' GOLF ' TENNIS

 

 

i
z
I

    
   
  
  
   
  
   
 
   
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
    
 

If you are planning the construction of an
Ice Skating Facility in the near future consult

I

 

a firm that has designed and engineered l7
ice skating rinks and arenas in the past year

INDOOR 0
PERMANENT 0

construction.

COSTS
REVENUE
FINANCE
ENGINEERING

We now are designing 23 rinks and arenas for the
I957 season, and have iust completed the design
of 5 outdoor rinks for the City of Buffalo.

Peter Carver Associates

70 EAST 45th STREET
NEW YORK 17, NEW YORK

OUTDOOR
PORTABLE

Take advantage of our invaluable knowledge and
experience of ice rink feasibility, planning and

OPERATION
PROMOTION
EQUIPMENT
SITE PLANNING

1“" 'J-"HH'l-HH "WW-i”-

Phone: LExlngton 2-1520

OUR REFERENCES AND EXPERIENCE ARE YOUR GUARANTEE

'-""""m'

 

Q

 

Work with peOple
new, creative applications . . .

SOCIAL GROWTH

THROUGH

PLAY PRODUCTION

In,

 

 

Executive Director,

bY JACK SIMOS Children's Aid Society of Indiana

How to help older adolescents and
adults grow to social maturity
through direct participation in for-
mal and traditional dramas.

Practical step-by-step processes
enable the individual to discover
rich and lasting values by acting
in plays carefully selected for max-
imum learning potential and men-
tal stimulation.

Concrete examples taken from
many diversified settings (commu-
nity centers, colleges, treatment
centers) reveal how individuals, in
therapy or for normal growth
guidance, attain lasting benefits
lrom this unique use of the dra-
matic arts. $3.75

   

When writing to our advertisers please. mention lit-.1..ltl-..\1ln.\.

 
 

PARTIAL CONTENTS —

Drama and Human Rela-
tions—A Creative Approach
— How to Do It (Rehears-
als in detail, performances.
evaluation) —The Use of
Play Producrion in a Resi-
dential Treatment Center—
Techniques and Methods of
Direction — Significance to
the Participants—The Play-
er and the Part—Benefits of
Participation in Play Pro-
duCtion—Features of the
Program Medium Favorable
to Personal and Social
Growth-SeleCti ng the Play
—-\Who Should Do It.

 

ASSOCIATION PRESS

291 Broadway
New York 7, N. Y.

/

  

f

'7 FROM THE STUDIOS or
/

M-G-M, WARNER BROS.
20th CENTURY-FOX, WALT DISNEY

I_’_/.-.

NOW IS THE TIME for programming movies for your play—
ground or recreation area; for setting up playdates, for getting
booking confirmations. It’s time to think of movie nights, recrea—

tion afternoons . . . to plan ahead for rainy day entertainment.

' Order now to assure best choice of films. Send us your list of
KIM—Errol Flynn, Dean Stockwell. , .

Color and Block and White. showing dates and let us arrange a tentative schedule at no cost

or obligation. Fill out the coupon below and send it to the Films
Incorporated exchange nearest to you.

5W PAY as you PLAY aged!

0 For you who do nor customarily use features, Films Incorporated as an
introducmry offer, will deposit at your center an entertaining special
feature film for that rainy day or as a treat for special

. . , B&W Rentals
occasions. Show the film and you pay, bur if you don 1'
use it, simply return it to your Films Inc. exchange. From $7-50

 

. _ .w'. .
THE WINNING TEAM - Doris Day, Ronald

 

 

 

Reagan. Black and White. No obligation, of course! To $1 1.00
I— ————————————————————————— ——|
I To FILMS INCORPORATED R-4-57' I  
I Gentlemen: Please send me your latest catalog of films [I I in c o    d
I My film showing dates are: ..__._, I
| , , , , . I new YORK ATLANTA
I Please submit for me a schedule of your recommended features for the above dates I] I 202 EaSt 44th Street 2" PM” Road: N- E-
l I am interested in B/W only C]; in color only C]: bOth B/W’ and color [I] I HOLLYWOOD DALLAS
I NAME___________________ LOCATION I 5525 Hollywood Blvd. 1414 Dragon Street
I BUSINESS ADDRESS I WILMETIE, ILLINOIS PORTLAND, OREGON
I CITY_____________—____ STATE I 1144 Wilmette Ave. 2129 N. E. Broadway
I

———————————————————————————J

APRIL 1957 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 113

 

) THEvFIFTH ANNUAL CONFERENCE of
State Inter-Agency Committees for Rec-
reation will be held May 6-8 in colorful
Roaring River State Park at Cassville in
the Missouri Ozarks, with the Missouri
State Inter-Agency Committee for Ree-
reation acting as host. Total charge to
delegates, everything included, will be
twenty dollars. For further information

write Robert L. Black, P.O. BOX 207,
Jefferson City, Missouri.

) THE RECENT APPOINTMENT of Ott
Romney as assistant executive director
of President Eisenhower’s Youth Fit-
ness Council is interesting news tO ree-
reation people. Ott has chalked up a
distinguished career in the recreation
field. Most recently he was recreation
consultant for the Federal Housing Ad-
ministration, and before that he was in
charge of the reCreation program for

the U. S. Army in the Far East.

) WHEN INDUSTRY LOCATES NEW PLANT
SITES, local recreation, “controlled or
influenced by local government,” is one
of the factors which determines the linal
decision, according to Alex C. Bois-
seau, general manager of the Hickory
Tranformcr Plant of the General Elec-
trie Company, in the January issue of
The Municipality. He maintains that
while recreation facilities do not insure
outstanding industrial personnel, they
are an indication of the stability of the
individuals and their pride in their com-
munity. “These facilities are impor-
tant,” says Mr. Boisseau, “since to some
extent they determine the desire of the
community to combat juvenile delin-
quency and to provide good clean relax-
ation for the adults.”

) TIIE HOBBY FIELD is playing an im-
portant part in the People-to-People in-
ternational friendship activities pro-
gram initiated by President Eisenhower
last fall. PPP information kits, sent to
hundreds of hobby groups, haVe stimu-

114

7W ?M 54a!ch Km ,

 

lated articles in hobby columns, maga-
zines, speeches at hohby meetings, be-
ginnings of overseas projects. Leading
figures from all walks of life are joining
a vast committee set-up, with subcom-
mittees for each major hobby. Substan-
tiating the claim that hobbies provide
a natural avenue for peOple-to-peOple
exchanges, contacts are already begun
with persons overseas. Incidentally, the
PeOple-to-People Foundation, Inc., with
President Eisenhower as honorary
chairman, became a privately linanced,
privately directed, permanent organiza-
tion in February, 1957.

) THE ADOPTION OF A TEEN-ACE CON-
DUCT CODE is.being considered by many
states, as an answer to reports of in-
creasing juvenile delinquency. The last
state considering such a code. which we
have heard from, is Missouri.

) DON’T FORGET MUSIC WEEK, May 5
to 12. In a message received from the
White House, President Eisenhower
says, “During this week, as you en-
courage the performance of folk music
of all nations, the opportunity is pro-
vided for a signiiicant advance in in-
ternational understanding. At the same
time, it is fitting to promote present-day
American music and to further the
knowledge and appreciation of our own
modern artists.”

All-time favorite

SONG SLIDES

Special clase-aut sale an 3%"):4" glass
slides-——10c per slide while available
(Regular price 50c)

2"x2" glass slides also in stack-——50c
per slide

Write for catalog

NATIONAL STUDIOS
42 West 48th Street
New York 36, N. Y.

 

) THE FIRST NATION-WIDE OBSERvANCE
of Senior Citizen Month will take place
during May 1957, under sponsorship of
Senior Citizens of America, according
to an announcement by Joy Elmer Mor-
gan, president of SCA. Purpose of the
observance is to focus attention on the
new developments that have resulted
from the gift of increased life expec-
tancy.

) TODAY’S DEMAND FOR ADVANCED
TRAINING in administrative managerial
jobs has resulted in a “great hunt for
educated talent,” according to the
president of the Carnegie Corpora-
tion,‘ John W. Gardner, in the January-
1957 issue of Harper’s. “College grad-
uates are taking over every central and
significant activity in our society,” he
writes. “There is not the slightest ques-
tion that business and industry now re-
cruit their top leaders from the ranks of
highly educated men.”

) FAMILIES UNABLE TO CONTROL THEIR
DELINQUENT CHILDREN will be ousted
from public housina. according to a
recent announcement by the New York
Housing Authority. The new program._
designed to protect decent families and
the housing property. requires manag-
ers of the projects to report all incident!
of hoodlumism or vandalism involving
tenants, instead of following their own
judgment on incidents they report as
was done previously. Warren Moscow.
executive director of the housing au-
thority, said the reports will provide a.
complete file on families guilty of con-
tinued laulessncss, thus making possi-
ble speedier eviction of repeated of-
lenders.

) PARENTS wuo I’ERSIST in conduct
that contributes to a child’s delinquencx
will be liable to prosecution for con-
tempt of court under a new New York
State law which became cilcctive last
July. Under the new law a judge may
issue an order specifying conduct “such
as would reasonably prcvent dclin-l
quency or neglect.” The order woth
remain in ellect a year and would lapSel
if not renewed.

The maximum penalty is set at twen-
ty-Flvc dollars fine and thirty days in
jail. Governor Ilarriman stressed in a'
memorandum that the new law does not
make parents financially responsihlt“
for children’s misdeeds. He vetoed a4
bill that would have done this.

) ERRA'I‘A: The song slides mentioned

in this column last month are available_
for ten cents each only in the 3%” N 4"

- size. I

RECREATION

APRIL 1957

 

Editor in Chief, JOSEPH PRENDERGAST
Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON
Editorial Assistant, AMELIA HENLY
Business Manager, ALFRED H. WILSON

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Recreation Administration, GEORGE BUTLER
Program Activities, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

 

Vol. L Price 50 Cents No. 4

 

0n the Cover

WHERE YOU CAN TOUCH THE SKY! Climb-
ing is one of the things that children do; it is ad-
venture, and a part of the process of growing. Play-
ground equipment especially built for this purpose
is safer than the limbs of the old tree in the back-
yard. Photo courtesy of American Playground
Device Company, Anderson, Indiana.

Next Month

Norman Garbo, art teacher and author of the syn-
dicated column for artists, Pull Up an Easel, takes
the Sunday sketcher or summer hiker out-of-doors
with art in “Pick Up Your Sketch Book”; and
Mickey McConnell, director of training for Little
League baseball gives some tips for other grottps in
“Teaching Baseball to Beginners.” Three articlcs
on swimming pools will 'be of interest to executives
and swimming instructors. “A May Party on Rub-
ber Wllccls” was planned and put on in the Recrea-
tion Center for the Handicapped, San Francisco,
and thc story about it can serve as a pattern for, and
inspiration to, other handicapped groups. Other ar-
ticlcs cover a variety of program or general subjects.

Photo Credits

Page 120, Harry Merrick; 124, E. L. Trenchard;
125, Ralph Winn, Peoria Star; 134-35, Courier- our-
nal and Louisville Times; 140, Mrs. Laura Motion;
outside back cover, European.

RECREATION is published monthly except July and
August by the National Recreation Association, a service
organization Supported by voluntary contributions, at 8
West Eighth Street, New York 11, New York, is on
tile in public libraries and is indexed in the Reader:’
Guide. Subscriptions $4.00 a year. Canadian and for-
eign subscription rate $4.50. Re-entered as second-class

matter April 25, 1950, at the P05: Odice in New York,
New York, under Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance
for mailing at special rate of postage provided f0r in
SeCtion 1103. Act of October 3, 1917, authorized May
1, 1924. Microfilms of current issues available Uni-
versity Microfilms, 313 N. First Street, Ann Arbor.
Michigan.

Space Repretematiaer: H. Thayer Heaton. 141 East
44th Street, New York 17, New York; Mark Minahan,
168 North Michigan Avenue, Chicago, Illinois.

Copyright, 1956, by the
National Recreation Association, Incorporated

Printed in the U.S.A. _
@‘8 i'ewrs’i‘.

" Trade mark registered in U. S. Patent Office.

 

APRIL 1957

 

CONTENTS

GENERAL FEATURES

NochArcFifty . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . ..........116

The Fiftieth Candle . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 117

Letters on Our Birthday . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 118

Congress-by-the-Sea . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 120

Playground Facts and Fun . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 124
The Playground for Mentally Handicapped

Children . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Haroltl W. Perry 128
The Influence of Rural Environment on

Children . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Annc S. Hoppock 129
The Weeping Willow . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jane Gitelman 130
A Town Meeting with Delinquents. . . . . . . . . .Robert L. Smith 131
Playgrounds on Parade . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jolm Rieehan 134
ADDIINISTRATION
“Dennis the Menace” Playground . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 136

Evaluation in Recreation-Playgrounds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 149

Safety Program Recommendations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 149

Concession vs Direction Operations . . . . . . .Ralph ill. Hileman 150

Playgrounds for Creative Play . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Lisclott Diem 151

Notes for the Administrator. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 152
PROGRADI ‘
The Girl in the Blue Denim Skirt. . . . . . . .Connic Bloomquist 139
The Maypolc Dance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Olga Kulbitsky 140
TryaNcwIdca . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..142
Notes on a Summer Experiment (Idea of the

Month) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Bctty Yurina Kent 143
A Dump and a Dollar. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .ilIielmel Solomon 145
Storytelling on the Playground . . . . . . . . . . . . .Glarlys Conlelin 146
Christopher Cheesemorc (A Story) . . . . . . . . . .Ruth II. Norris 147

Lively Ideas for the Summer Play. . . . .Pamela Prince Walker 148

REGULAR FEATURES

Things You Should Know . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 114
Letters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Scc General Features
Editorially Speaking . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 122
Reporter‘s Notebook . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 132
Personnel—Join Forces for Better Training

. . . . . . . . . .......................William H. Radke 156

Classifier] Advertising . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 157

Idea of the Month . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Scc Program

Books and Pamphlets Received, Magazine Articles. . . . . . . . . . 158

Index of Advertisers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 158

NewPublications........................ . . . . . . . . . . ..160

Recreation Leadership Training Courses. . . . . . . Inside Back Cover

115

1...“. .na owe“ 6‘ M“

1" “MM.” Sum

 

Now We Are
FIFTY

It makes us sad to think how few can
recollect the time

When we were called THE PLAYGROUND
-—-—and we only cost a dime.

We wrote up each new play-space as a
major news event,
And when our field men traveled, we
announced just where they went.
For everyone and everything we always
found a place ——

The tiny field of recreation didn’t need
much space!

But now it’s hard to fit in towns with
brand-new swimming pools

0r leaders who have doctorates from
several top-flight schools.

To cover all the news we’d need six
columns to a page —

Since leisure time has grown so much,
we really feel our age.

And since we’ve followed all this growth
for forty years and ten,

we think we’ve earned the revcrcnce
due a senior citizen!

—MMCG

 

1949. New trends keep us busy! In ad-
dition to annual Playground Issue other
special issues devoted to specific fields.

 

RECREATION

Neither do men light a candle,
and put it under a bushel, but
on a candle stick; and it giveth
light unto all that are in the

1907

house—Matthew 5 :15

1957

. . . The Fiftieth Candle . . . . . . . .

@@

THIS MONTH, April 1957, RECREATION Magazine lights its
fiftieth birthday candle—a candle which, like its forty-
nine predecessors, is specifically designed to lend its light
to the many matters of concern to all of us in the field of
recreation. This month, these, fittineg enough, are matters
pertaining to playgrounds; last month, they were matters
pertaining to the coming camping season; always they are
matters nearest to our hearts, our needs, or most immediate
in our thoughts as workers and leaders.

The last fifty years have brought growth and change to
the publication and to its readers as well. Time marches on;
people are different; and as needs become different, ways of
meeting them have to be different; means of communication
in 1957 are not those of 1907.

The Playground Association of America has grown into
the N ational.Recreation Association, to serve the recreation
needs of persons of every age; its magazine, now RECREA-
TION, has adapted itself accordingly, and grown in its own
right. Science and technology have presented us with a dif-
ferent world, and economic, industrial and social changes
confront the recreation worker with the challenge of “the
new leisure.” Our field of interest and endeavor has become
one which is of enormous importance to everybody.

RECREATION has mirrored, inevitably, the changes in both
professional and popular thinking about play and recrea-
tion, although the basic philosophies of the early leaders of
the Association still form its foundations. It was about
1906 when an appropriation for playgrounds in the District
of Columbia was being discussed on the floor of Congress
and one congressman, who probably reflected typical opin-
ion of the time, is reported to have said, “What, teach chil-
dren how to play? You might as well teach a fish to swim!”
Today, we know that recreation has an important connec-
tion with individual health—mental and physical. We know
that good family relations, good community relations, good
human relations require adequate opportunities for outlet
and expression through recreation. And we know, for in-
stance, one of the most profound reasons for recreation is
that through recreation activities people are able to exper-
ience adventure, find creative expression and achieve the
finest human aspirations.

The trend toward a shorter working week—toward more

APRIL 1957

leisure for everyone—has been related to the recreation
movement from the very beginning of the organization of
the National Recreation Association. When Howard Brau-
cher accepted the position as secretary of the organization
in 1909, he wrote: “I believe with you that, with our. child
labor movement and the movement of the labor unions for
a shorter working day, the recreation problem is one of the
most vital problems we have yet to face at all adequately.”
Twenty-one years later, the National Recreation Association
celebrated its twenty-fifth anniversary in a meeting at the
White House. At that time Joseph Lee, who was president
of the Association, said: “Leisure for everybody, a condi-
tion that we in America are now approaching is a new thing
under the sun—the most revolutionary thing that ever hap-
pened. It means the coming of something unheard of iniall
history——the opportunity for every man to live. . . .”

Joseph Lee’s prediction has come true; and this, then, is
the world in which the magazine has its being today. As in
the beginning, it is dedicated to bringing inspiration and
help to recreation workers and to interpreting the field of
recreation to the general public.

From our hearts we thank our readers, who are our con-
tributors and our co-workers, for the interest and support
which have made The Magazine of the Recreation Move-
ment possible and which keep it flourishing even in these
modern years with so many conflicting demands. It is upon
such interest, on the part Of such persons, that the recrea-

'tion movement has been built.

We are grateful, too, for the opportunity of these fifty
years of service by means of the printed word. We wish
for our magazine many more years of steady growth—with
more and more peOple supporting it and using it, so its
light may continue to shine forth as an ever-stronger illum-
ination and support in the ob that lies ahead.

MW

Executive Director, National Recreation Association

117

Our magazine is fifty
years old this month! On
these pages some old
friends send us greetings
and share our rejoicing.

3‘ c.
2 (j :
J; \

/ \

// \\\

t ‘ 5-
\\l N4": ’ t
\\

a f;

K H/ :

\\ / , \

«2' 0 6’ _/ 

:3 N l

// C l \\\ ///
// \\\

118

 

On Our Birthday

A Salute", and Thanks . . .

Sirs: .

The fiftieth birthday of RECREATION
Magazine is an event which should not
go unnoticed. For a half century, your
excellent publication has been a power-
ful, positive force for recreation in our
country and throughout the world.

We in the field salute you, congratu-
late .you, and thank you. We salute you
for the high standards you have main-
tained. We congratulate you on the
wide range of coverage you have
always managed. We thank you for the
tremendous help you have been to us.

As you move into your second half-
century, may the accomplishments of
the past serve as a firm foundation for
the challenges of the future.

HARLEIGH B. TRECKER, Dean, Uni-
versity of Connecticut School of

Social Work, Hartford.

A Dog-Earetl Member . . .

Sirs:

Fifty years—half a century—cover
two silver anniversaries! When stated
this way it seems a long, long time, and
yet when one compares the fifty years
of the recreation movement, of which
RECREATION Magazine is closely identi-
fied and somewhat symbolic. one must
realize it is a brief, brief time in the
span of civilization.

How does one measure the conver-
sion from words to action that has re-
sulted in the thousands, perhaps, mil-
lions, of people who have reviewed this
most worthwhile publication in these
fifty years? We recently checked our
department library on RECREATION and
found it the most “dog-cared” member
of our educational, recreational, refer-
ral stack. Probably no publication to
date can occupy the same shelf as REC-
REATION when weighted on its contri-
bution to the good life. This includes
research, practical articles in program-
ing, pictnres demonstrating thousands
of words unwritten, ad infinitnm.

The golden anniversary of RECREA-
TION Magazine certainly shines untar-
nished'in the eyes of the profession.

J. EARL SCHLUPP, President. Ameri-
can Recreation Society.

The Universal Approach . . .
Sirs:

The growing acceptance of recrea-
tion, not only in the Army but through-
out America, can be attributable to the
high caliber and dedication of the in-
dividuals who have pioneered and
spearheaded the struggle for the recog-
nition of recreation as a profession and
as a movement devoted to the develop-
ment and utilization of a concept of a
rich, satisfying and constructive leisurc
for all citizens. The universal approach
of RECREATION, its guidance to the
profession, its leadership in defining
principles and its broad yet essentially
human exposition of the objective and
techniques of recreation have done
much to foster the education of the pub-
lic and government in this fine and tra-
ditionally American movement.

Please accept the greetings and felic-
itations of Army Special Services-—
may RECREATION continue in the future
to meet the challenge with the same high
spirit and record of accomplishment.

L. W. JACKSON, Colonel,ACC. Chief.
Special Services Division. Depart- I
ment of the Army, Washington. D.C.

A Major Force . . .

Sirs:

For fifty years the National Recrea-
tion Association and RECREATION Mag-
azine have provided the solid foun-
dation upon which the American rcere-
ation movement has been built.

RECREATon Magazine. particularly,
has been a major force in this move-
ment. lt helped start the recreation
movement in the United States fifty-
ycars ago. It promoted its growth.
aided its development, and is now guid-
ing its sound expansion.

The yardstick that measures a maga-
zine’s effectiveness cannot be scaled to
one big event. Rather. it is the month-
by-month. year-by-year service that a
publication extends to its readers which
is the true measure of a magazine’s ef-
fectiveness. RECREATtON Magazine has
provided an invaluable service to the
workers and leaders in American recre-
ation during every month of its fifty-
year existence.

‘ RECREATION

I want to congratulate RECREATION
Magazine upon its golden anniversary
for its outstanding service to America.

THEODORE P. BANK, The Athletic
Institute, Chicago, Illinois.

Resource for Volunteers . . .

Sirs:

May I take this opportunity to say
“Happy Birthday” to RECREATION
Magazine as it celebrates its fiftieth an-
niversary! The contribution made
through the words printed in your
magazine this past half-century has
been notable, and we, too, want to wish
you continued success!

You will be interested to know that
last year our Junior League members
filled 5,289 volunteer places in the field
of recreation in their 187 communities.
They too, have noted needs in the rec-
reation facilities and opportunities for
all age groups and have actively partici-
pated in programs which rectify these
scarcities when they exist. In many in-
stances the National Recreation Asso-
ciation has assisted them in these proj-
ects, and in many instances RECREA-
TION Magazine has been used as a fine
resource Of information for these vol-
unteers.

We join your many friends in wish-
ing you many more half-centuries as a
spokesman for the recreation move-
ment!

MRS. MARGARET G. TWYMAN, Ad-
ministrator, Association of the Jun-
ior Leagues of America, Inc., New

York City.

An Immeasurable Influence . . .
Sirs:

I would like to take this opportunity
to congratulate the National Recrea-

tion Association on the celebration of
the fiftieth birthday Of RECREATION

Magazine.

Since its inception, this fine maga-
zine has been a positive force in helping
to guide the growing recreation move-
ment. Thus it has had an immeasurable
influence on.the work of recreation lead-
ers, administrators, students, teachers,
social workers, civic-minded citizens,
and others interested in recreation.

I hope RECREATION’s influence will
continue to grow in the years ahead and
that the pleasant relationships between
the National Recreation Association
and our own association will grow
stronger as we work together in serving
the recreation profession.

CARL A. TROESTER, JR., Executive
Secretary, American Association for

Health, Physical Education, and
Recreation, Washington, D. C.

APRIL 1957

Of Help to Leaders . . .
Sirs:

Congratulations on the fiftieth hirth-
day of RECREATION Magazine.

The magazine has been of much help
to many leaders in the various types of
organizations that have a responsibility
for recreation. One of the finc features
of the magazine has been its broad cov-
erage of activities and the practical sug-
gestions that are made for program ac-
tivities.

I found the magazine very helpful
personally for many years, and hope
that it may continue to be such a fine
resource in recreation.

JULIAN W. SMITH, Director, Outdoor
Education Project, Michigan State
University, East Lansing, Michigan.

Happy Birthday . . .
Sirs:

On behalf of the recreation directors
of American and Canadian industry, I
wish to extend heartiest congratulations
to RECREATION on the occasion of its
fiftieth anniversary.

Personally, I thank God for RECREA-
TION—it saved the day for me time and
time again as a recreation student; it
was an invaluable asset in my municipal
recreation work; and today our Na-
tional Industrial Recreation Associa-
tion recognizes it as the outstanding
publication in the field.

Happy Birthday!

DON L. NEER, Executive Secretary,
National Industrial Recreation As-
sociation, Chicago, Illinois.

“7 hen One Ponders . . .
Sirs:

Warm greetings and congratulations
on the fiftieth birthday of RECREATION
Magazine! May the next half-century of
life of the magazine of the recreation
movement be characterized by achieve-
ments and contributions even more
magnificent and helpful than those of
the past, and by a growing volume of
appreciation and support from _an ever
broadening range of readers and users.

When one ponders the amount of
quality thinking and planning, the
imaginative adventuring required of
recreation leaders during the next dec-
ade or two, he is awed by the bigness
of the task. Of course, it would not be
such a big task were it not such a vitally
important undertaking.

Ten years ago our p0pulation was
141,000,000; today it is around 170,-
000,000; and the estimate is that by
1975 we will be a nation of around 221,-
000,000 peeple! Our recreation plan-
ners and administrators can get from

their educational friends something of a
clue as to what is ahead of them. In

spite of all the frantic huilding of
schools in recent years, the crop of
youngsters outruns it. It is estimated
that in 1965 (only eight short years
away) , we will have thirty per cent more
children of elementary school age, and
fifty per cent more children of high
school age. We are warned that, just to
catch up, spending for schools may have
to be doubled!

Larger families, more young chil-
dren, more youth, more older people,
more vehicles of transportation, popu-
lation flowing toward the cities, more
leisurc time, rising costs, shrinking tax
and philanthropic dollars, et cctera, ad
infinitum—what posers for recreation
leadership! What a challenge and task
for the magazine of the recreation move—
ment to help recreation leaders look and
plan and dream and adventure ahead!

SHERWOOD GATES, Director, 0§ice
of Community Services, Department

of the Air Force, Washington, D. C.

A Function and a Mission . . .
Sirs:

We in the Navy have a function and
mission similar to the National Recrea-
tion Association in that we, too, are pro-
viding a program so that each of our
personnel will have an opportunity for
the hest and most satisfying use of his
off-duty or leisure time.

May I take this opportunity to thank
the National Recreation Association
and each of you at headquarters for
your personal and ofiicial interest in the
recreation needs of our personnel. Your
cooperation with us in furthering our
missions has been outstanding.

We wish for you continued success in
your unselfish devotion to the field of
recreation. I hope I am around for
your diamond jubilee.

E. M. WALLER, Head, Recreation
and Physical Fitness Branch, Spe-
cial Services Division, Department

of the Navy, Washington, D. C.

Half a Century of Service . . .
Sirs:

As the National Recreation Associa-
tion and RECREATION Magazine cele-
brate their fiftieth anniversary, we can-
not say that you have come of age . . .
that happened long ago, nor can we
think that you have reached the peak, for
there is no peak to the work you are
doing.

We do look back on your solid half-
century of service to the profession and
join with you in the good feeling of
your accomplishments.

ALFRED B. LAGASSE, Executive Sec-
retary, American Institute of Park
Executives, Inc. and Managing Edi-

tor, Parks and Recreation Magazine.
' ant—r

119

Closely Related . . .

Sirs:

The American Camping Association
1s happy to join with hundreds of other
friends, individual readers and organi-
zations, as RECREATION Magazine cele-
brates its fiftieth birthday.

Because the fields of camping and
recreation are so closely related, we
know that many of the directors of the
more than thirteen thousand organized
camps in the country have regularly
looked to RECREATION for not only prac-
tical program ideas but for those learn-
ings and philosophies that could be

adapted to a camp setting.
We feel greatly indebted to RECREA-

Congress-by-the-Sea . . . .

The 38th National Recreation, Congress

Long Beach, California

September 30 -— October 4, 1957

UR NATIONAL RECREATION CONGRESS will be on the
West Coast this year and, at the end of Septem-
ber, delegates from north, south, east and west will be
heading for Long Beach, California, land of sunshine,
blue ocean, and———movie stars. Glamorous Hollywood,
incidentally, is about a forty-minute drive from Long
Beach. Watch future issues of RECREATION for things
to see and do in this section of California.

TION. Best wishes for a continuing suc-
cess in an increasingly important area
of our American life.

T. R. ALEXANDER, President, Ameri-
can Camping Association, Bradford
Woods, Martinsviile, Indiana.

A “Must” for Students . . .
Sirs:

The College Recreation Association
is indeed proud to convey its congrat-
ulations to the National Recreation As-
sociation for its outstanding service to
the recreation movement through REC-
REATION Magazine.

Those of us involved in the profes-
sional preparation of recreation leaders

0
- b“-

are cognizant of the tremendous value
RECREATION Magazine has in our edu-
cative process. It should be a “must”
for all students majoring in recreation.
In most colleges and universities, REC-
REATION is used as an important re-
source for many of the recreation
classes.

We are looking forward to the next1
fifty years with high hopes that REC-'
REATION will continue “to enlighten”
our profession as ably as it has in the
past. I

THEODORE DEPPE, President, Col-
lege Recreation Association, In—
diana University, Bloomington, I n-
diana.

 

Registration, exhibits and meetings will he held in the I
Beach Municipal Auditorium (arrow) which looks out over I
lovely Pacific—and the sea breezes are eXpectetl to eool

heated discussion sessions. Headquarters hotels are neat-h

New Congress Secretary

It is with pleasure that the National
Recreation Association announces the

the planning and management. He will be assisted by Joh

appointment of Willard B. Stone to its
staff, as of April first. Mr. Stone, well
known to many in the rccreation field
for his activities as recreation director
for the New York State Youth Commis-
sion, will serve as secretary of this
year’s Congress. He previously has been rccreation con-
sultant for the New York State War Council and the New
York State Department of Education, and assistant camp
dircctor of the Westchester County Recreation Commission.
A graduate of Denison and Harvard Universities, he studied
also at Ncw York University and taught there and at City
Collcge of New York.

As Congress secretary, he will work with the co-Sponsoring
agencies and Congress program and executive committees in

 

120 I

Collier, NRA Pacific Southwest District representative. witll
headquarters Room 1009. 606 South li ill Street, Los Ange-hi
14. Mr. Stone can be reached at Association headquarters. 3‘

West Eighth Street, New York 11.

Shaping Up

' Exhibit spade is being allotted to all sponsoring, coopera-t'!
ing and assisting organizations this year. It is hoped thd
there also can be educational exhibits from other local citie'
——if further corridor space is available. it
' Special interest progratn sessions are being planned al
suggestions come in. (Send them to the Congress l’rograri
Chairman, National Recreation Association.)

' ideas for speakers at gcncral sessions can bc scnt to the
secretary who will refcr them to the pr0pcr committccs fort
consideration. I l -

RECREA'rtol

I " '. 
9 A _
5‘1" ‘

r’giasitz ,«
I -

agaln «. ..

maior U.S.A. Basketball
championships are

 0.. 956-57

H I L LYA R D : WMWWHSZ

FINISHED FLOORS

N CAA NATIONAL
N A I A NATIONAL
NIT NATIONAL

U.S.A. OLYMPIC TRYOUT FINALS

“N c A A EASTERN REGIONALS

NCAA WESTERN REGIONALS

N‘CAA FAR WEST REGIONALS

100 Years of Progress

the kl [INTO-hm. C... 3911.“ CO'ul'NYION. “'
that mm, D C. In: It”. 1951’.

claim! ll mmmt o '51 IIIIUII mums

"finish for hampions”. A Wmmmqu/

o lIGHT, natural, no-glare‘finish enables players Hill-YARD Si- Joseph. MO- r

Please have the local Hillyard "Maintaineer®" show me how

and spedators allke '0 see 0" Plays dearly easily I can have a TROPHY Championship Floor next season.

(live or televised!)

«- NON-SLIP underfoot, for faster, safer Name..-......-._  
big'fime PIGY- _ Institution.................................................................-..

0 OUTWEARS any other gym floor finish . Address ................................................................ ..
by "‘0"? than 2 '0 1° - a City, State ................................................................ ..

m I!
smut

o SIMPLIFIES maintenance, slashes gmmg

maintenance costs.
;\ ST. JOSEPH, MO. Passaic. N. J.

Dept. P-6 San Jose, Calif.

APRIL 1957 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 121

 

Editorially Speaking

The Season of Renewal

RECREATION Magazine reaches its
half-century mark, fittineg enough, in
the spring of the year—for the months
of spring bring renewal of life and
promise of things to come. As the
showers,of yesterday will be the flowers
of tomorrow, so the problems and ex-
perience of RECREATION’S first fifty
years are bound to be a strength in the

years ahead.

Here, while heaven and earth rejoices,
Each his Easter tribute bring——

Work of fingers, chant of voices,

Like the birds who build and sing.

——Charles Kingsley

THOUGHTS
OF
EASTER

$12 An ancient legend tells that where
ever the risen Savior walked, white
lilies sprang in his footprints. Thus the
origin of the Easter lily. The egg sym-
bolizes the rebirth of spring. The cross
of flowers is a survival of the days when
early Christians, worshipping in se-
cret, drew crosses on the walls of cata-
combs to testify that the spirit of Christ
dwelt there. Because real eggs, original-
ly exchanged at Easter-time, seldom
survived unbroken in the mails, the

people of Northern Europe, about 1850,

began sending pictures of painted eggs.
Thus, Easter cards came into being.

An Easter Greeting

When I was a liltle tot,
I likcd Easter ’cause it brought:

An Easter basket gay and hright

With colored straw which overnight
Was filled with eggs of ev’ry huc

And one big choc’late bunny too,

Who sat so stiff with cars up straight,
The guardian of his sweet estate.

And now of all the special seasons,
I like Eastcr for these reasons:

Because it never fails to hring

The joy that comes with ev’ry Spring,
A verdant hill onec white with snow,
The daffodil’s own golden glow,

A sense of life. of boundless love
That’s lavished on us from above.

May that same sensc, that joy divine,
Be also yours this Eastertime!
HAPPY EASTER!

“Robert E. Kresge, Superintendent of
Recreation, Charleston, West l”irginia.

122

 

A Necessary Utility

“The need for youth centers is usual-
ly underestimated by our communities.
. . . A good youth center in a commun-
ity, designed to give yohth high inter-
ests in their off-hours is the most im-
portant organization outside the fam-
ily. Any community with the interest
of its young people truly at heart can
much less afford to be without a youth
center than it can afford to be without
paved streets or a municipal water

supply.

“A youth center is in the nature of
a necessary public utility which only
the municipality can provide.”— DR.
JOHN A. SCHINDLER in How to Live
365 Days a Year (Prentice-Hail).

Challenge to the Nation

“The adult, and the youth to a lesser
extent, during the fifty-year history of
the National Recreation Association
has not had the psychological freedom
for recreation that the child has had
for his play. The reason, of course, is
that a work morality has been neces-
sary to help the adult put in long hours
of physical and mental labor in order
to support himself and his family. . . .
One must always have an excuse for
merer living, for playing. The thought
of a grown man, in the present, having
the nerve just to live, just to do things
because he wants to—violates all our
established American habits. . . .

“Now, however, we are in the midst
of tremendous changes in our whole
way of life. One of the most far reach-
ing of these is the freeing of most
adults from long and arduous labor.
This is a necessary first step to de-
vcloping a philosophy which permits
adults to enjoy their leisure time.”———
JOSEPH PRENDERCAST in an address
given at the NRA Great Lakes District.
Conference, 1956.

‘l’ ‘l’ ‘l’ I.

“The nation faces a tremendous job
to convert the increased leisure coming

 
 
   
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
 
   
   
   
    
   

with automation into an asset instead
of a liability.”

This contention was voiced recentl
by Olga Madar, of Detroit, Internation-
al United Auto Workers recreation di-
rector, at a Michigan State Universit
conference. She declared that state an
federal governments, communities, la
bor unions and individual families mus
place new emphasis upon providin
worth-while recreation activities in this
era of automation.

More than two hundred and fifty
leaders of UAW locals conferred at

Kellogg Center on the development of
more effective community-wide and
union-sponsored recreation programs.

Miss Madar and Douglas Fraser
administrative assistant to UAW Pres
ident Walter Reuther, pointed out thre
implications with the coming of auto
mation: more leisure time each day
each week; long vacation periods
earlier retirement.

Union members and all citizens, Mi:
Madar said, face two challenges in ap
preaching the problem: (1) to stud,
the over-all leisure needs in terms
facilities, leadership, activities, part'
eipation; and (2) to 100k at the c
and be prepared to sell the need f
adequate financing for the desired pr
gram. To insure_ that this increa
lcisure will be an asset and not a li.
bility, we must face squarely the alarm
ing developments of:

0 Too much “spectatoritis.”
0 Children watching too much TV.
0 Shortages of parks and facilities.

0 Lack of trained recreation leaders.

0 The failure of recreation to rate it
proper place in city. state and fedora

government.

0 The lack of opportunity for the pee
ple to have a real-felt voice in recrca
tional programs.

The two-day conference also fc
lured many workshop sessions on sue
topics as family camping. gun safety
outdoor recreation programs for rqu

l

tired workers. MSU specialists. stat *
officials and union leaders were utilize
as workshop personnel.—Ht—:ttBt—‘.RT A
AUER, editor, Information. Service.
Continuation Education. Service, Mich
ian State University, East Lansing.

RECREATIOi

    
   
     
   
   

64 PAGES!

  
   

ENAMEL-ON-COPPEP

Learn Iewelry malclng; latest enam-
1. eling processes and techniques from
133;. step-by-step illustrated Instruc-
"-“‘"“':"-" ._ tions. Book lists many new copper

_..__.- items, complete supplies.r tools 8.
equipment. Send for your copy of this
Valuable reference book today! Rush 25c to:

THE COPPER SHOP
A Div. of tmmerman 8 Sons 0 Dept.‘lBO

2185 East 14th ° Cleveland 15. Ohio

 

  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
    
   
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
   

| Colonial
Antique Kits

 tennis, badmin-
: ton, squash and .
paddle tennis. 

cl

    
 

Hysterp/ay../onger/ife.

For years DAYTON Steel Rac-
quets have been the favorite of
professionals and beginners
alike. Thousands are now play-

I c A l- | F0 R N  ing an improved game—with
I more speed and accuracy than
ever before.
8  E H 0 s P I  l- s Daytons are practically inde-
structible—ideal for
offer schools and play- 

. . . grounds. Steel strings RUIES and
career opportunmes "1 new and tubular steel court layouts

   frames are [10' Of-  
fectecl by climatic or tennis are

changes. No covers or YOUI’S lOl’ the
College Graduates with specialization We”es are nestled '0 asking. '

I
in Recreation Therapy or Recreation. Pmle "tem' They WM”
warp.F splinter, rot or sag.

. Starling salaries  It will pay you to investigate
.. . now. See them at your local
0 Fourteen modern tacllltles

dealer‘s or write direct to factory

o Attractive employee benetits for more information.

DAYTON RAOOUET OOMPAN
747 Albrigllt St. Arcanum, Ohio

ayt o n
STEEL RACQUETS

EVERYBODY 

PARTICIPATES IN TRAMPOLINING

Trampolining is one part of The Nissen Trampoline Model
your physical education pro- 77A shown here, is the one

gran}.in WhiCh CVCI'YOQC can recommended for schools. It‘s
part1c1pate. Students dont need big. sturdy __ takes a lot of

i3: Ecca'a—lrféglggfijgfuaif.§ pounding. It‘s easy to set up .—
a great help in developing co- and f°ld5 and T0115 away for

ordination and body control. out'Of'lhe'WaY Storage-

Almost an one can teach tram— .
polining_ {3y Simply sending in Marl the coupon today for more

the coupon below, Nissen will informa":0" 0” "19 N‘s-5"?"
send you, free of charge, 12 Trampoline and 12 free lesson
lesson plans. plans.

if it isn’t a  it isn’t a trampoline:

 

Complete “assemble-it-yonrself” kits
for making full size reproductions
of Colonial Antique Masterpieces!

for Everything included. . . precise pre-cut wood
sections with pre-marked nail holes. knife
for antiquing, rub-on stain, nails, sandpaper,
steel wool, gauze wipe, and simple direc-

I

tions. 6 kits from $2.95 to $8.95.

   
  
 
 

II F Full color Bro-

chure a! all six X-acto

Medical Recruitment Unit Colonials.

CALIFORNIA STATE PERSONNEL BOARD

   

X-ACTO, INC.

48-99 Van Dam Street
Long Island City 'I. N. Y.

801 Capitol Avenue. Sacramento

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

'------------------------------------
: NISSEN rumour“ co.
' 205 A Avenue, N.W., Cedar Rapids, Iowa, U.S.A.
I I Gentlemen:
- | Please send me the 12 free Trampoline lesson plans
I | and further information an the Nissen Trompalrne.
' : NAME or SCHOOL
: cnv zone STATE
: av mus
NISSEN Trampoline Company  Nissen Trampoline Ca.,I Ltd.
I .
I Cedar Rapids. Iowa Halnault Works. london. England
l----------_-------------------------

APRIL 1957 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 123

 

.41- ,
The idea of a child wit his dog seems to be of interest

to everybody; so the Norfolk, Virginia, playgrounds
stage an old standby, a city-wide “Kids” Dog Show."

SINCE THE BEGINNING of the recreation movement, the
playground has been the chief center of recreation
activity in most communities. Once considered a play area
for children only, today the well-developed neighborhood
playground attracts people of all ages. The fact that play-
grounds under leadership outnumber all other types of cen-
ters or facilities—18,224 in 1,956 cities are reported for
1955-—attests to their growing importance. In fact, prac-
tically every community providing some form of recreation
service operates one or more playgrounds. A majority of
the playgrounds still are open under lcadership during the
summer only, but a marked increase is noted over 1950 in
the number operated the year round, most of them in the
larger cities:

 

PLAYGROUNDS UNDER LEADERSHIP, 19104955"

Year Toto! Fun-Time, Year-Round
1910 l .244 ...... ..

1920 4,293 807

1930 7,677 1,399

1940 9,921 3.050

1950 14,747 3.790

1955 18,224 5,123

 

“—-—_——————-- ——-——

@edtazdao * *

The playground conccrns of yesterday, as communicatcd
through the first issuc of THE PLAYGROUND, were in many
instances the same as those of today:

April 1907

City streets are unsatisfactory playgrounds for children,

 

* From 1956 Recreation and Park Yearbook, National Rccreation
Association. $2.00.

"Quoted from articles in THE PLAYGROUND, forerunner of today's
RECREATION Magazine.

124

péaggfmcm

because of the danger, because most good games are against
the law, because they are too hot in summer, and because
in crowded sections of the city they are apt to be schools
of crime. . . . In view of these facts, cities should secure
available spaces at once, so that they may not need to de-
molish blocks of buildings in order to make playgrounds,
as New York has had to do, at a cost of nearly $1,000,000
an acre.——THEODORE ROOSEVELT, Washington, D. C.

A fundamental condition for the permanent development
of a free people is that they shall in childhood learn to gov-
ern themselves. Self-government is to be learned as an ex-
perience, rather than taught as a theory. Hence in a perma-
nent democracy, adequate playgrounds for all the children
are a necessity.—LUTHER H. CULICK, President, Piayground
Association of America.

n November 1907

I first played Prisoners’ Base thirty-seven years ago, and
the last series of games of it that l have played so far was
last summer. I have playcd the game with three on one
sidc and two on the other, and I have played it with as many
as fifteen on a side. I have played it against opponents
ranging from the then captain of a univcrsity football team
to childrcn four ycars old. I have played it in the city, in
the country, and on the beach. I think I may say that l have
had at least a long and varied, and I think I may add, an
intimate acquaintance with the game; and I believe it to
. . I think it is
an admirable game for all ages and both scxes. and for

be one of the vcry best games there are. .

almost any time of the year. But its special importance is
in filling in, for boys and girls who need some good strcnu-

Creative dramatirs has become part of the regular
playground program in Tacoma, \Vasllinglon. It is one
of the activities that tend to stimulate creative play.

 

RECREATION‘

ous game for the sake of their moral and intellectual develop-
ment, those interstices of time that come between the seasons

ruled over mightily by the great national games—JOSEPH
LEE.

July 1910

THE DAILY PROGRAM
New York Vacation Playground
1:00 to l:30——Assembly: Marching, Singing, Salute of the
Flag, Talk by the Principal.
1:30 to 2:30—0rganized Games: Kindergarten, Gynmastic.
2:30 to 3:00—Organized Free Play.
3:00 to 4:00—Drills: Gymnastic, Military.
Folk Dancing, Apparatus \Vork.
Occupation “lork: Katha, Clay Modeling,
Scrap Books.
4:00 to 4:45—0rganized Games: Kindergarten, Gymnastic.
4:45 to 5:15—Basketball, Athletics, Good Citizens, Club.
5:15 to 5:30—Dismissal: Marching, Singing.

7am

Trying to find new ways, methods, and activities for a
summer playground program is something that ever con-
cerns the alert leader. There are, of course, the standard
routine activities of all playground programs—such as
crafts, storytelling, sports, quiet and active games, dra-
matics, music, and others. Presenting these in a new fashion
is a goal all of us are striving to attain.

Playground Midways

ln Tacoma, Washington, one year we used this as the

Each of the playgrounds was responsible for one of the
booths under the big tent in Tacoma’s playground
carnival, climax of season’s special events program.

/

rig" fir '  'lOS

ginlfvl‘b

I.
'ta DRAW A :J‘FK r

   

APRIL 1957

5'

    

 

Planned fishing dcrbics are a part of the summer’s fun
for playgrounders in many communities. Hcre young
fishermen in Peoria, Illinois, admire abundant catch.

theme for the playground summer program. Each week had
a title fitting into the above, general theme. The names of
the weeks were as follows: Along the Midway; Greatest
Show On Earth; Sensational Thrills; Merry-Go-Round;
Midway Varieties ;. Laugh, Clown, Laugh; Splashing Dare-
devils; Come On and Hear; Fun House Jamboree; and

Under the Big Top.

During these weeks, the program of regular routine ac-
tivities as well as that of special events was planned in keep-
ing with the theme of the week. Leaders were encouraged
to use their own initiative and imagination in selecting,
and publicizing events. - W

Frontier Week is a gala event in Jeannette, Pennsyl-
vania. It includes a tcpcc village and a big powwow.
Even the leaders dress up as Indians or as pioneers.

 

 

A .Detroit playground-on-wheels tours from one con-
gested area to anolher where play space is limited.
Other equipment is set up oulside lhe “Playnlobile.”

Of course, it was important that all leaders also promote
and cooperate thoroughly in other, city-wide events as well;
but the program all summer was aimed toward making the
final week, “Under the Big Top,” a great success. All play-
grounds elosed at 5:00 P.M. during the final week: A big-
top tent was open from 7:00 to 11:00 P.M. Each playground
could set up a booth of some kind to earn money for the
playground; and these booths could present a demonstra-
tion of talent or a display. Each leader worked in close co-
operation with the supervisor as to the nature of the booth.
All honors, prizes for champions and the like were pre-

sented on the final night of the Big -Top.

A standard merit system for junior volunteer leaders was
set up for all playgrounds. Those children earning the
designated number of merits for helping on the grounds
were given play money which could be used during the final
week at the booths or for rides in the amusement park,
through the COOperation 'of the park—MARY ANN TRUt'rT,

former supervisor of playgrounds and recreation centers,
Tacoma Parks and School Districts.

Diversify Your Program

All kids aren’t athletes, so diversify your program! Chil-
dren have varying interests. They are basically individualists
in the selection of recreation activities; and, if it is expected
to serve all youth in the community, the program must in-
clude a wide variety of activities. For each activity added
to the program additional youngsters can be attracted.—
From Making Playgrounds Succeed, New York State Youth
Commission, Albany, New York.

The Porlahle Playground

A gaily decorated playground on wheels solves the need
for additional summer recreation facilities for children in
Detroit, Michigan. Five days a week, all summer long, the
parks and recreation department‘s “l’laymobile” stops twice
a day in congested areas where play space is limited.

“The Playnlobile is the answer for these kids,” declares
John J. Considinc, superintendent of the department.
“There’s just no other way for them to get a chance to play.”

126

It is used by the sixty thousand children who live in the
seventeen-square mile area inside Grand Boulevard for sum-
mer fun near their home. At each location, the driver rings
a large bell to signal the children, but this is merely a for-
mality for usually about two hundred of them are already '
waiting.

The roving playground was purchased by the Detroit
Lions Club and presented to the parks and recreation de-
partment in 1951. It is a tractor-drawn trailer that, when
its sides are up, can be hauled from street to street. \Vhen
its sides are open, it spews forth all sorts of wonderful play-
ground equipment—sliding board, basketball hoops, volley-
ball standards, teeter-totters, tables, sandbox, swings and
smaller playthings, such as jumping ropes, horseshoes. and
so on. Only the swings and sandbox are fixed to the trailer;
the other equipment is set up outside.

Under the direction of trained leaders the children enjoy
two and a half hours of recreation. The climax of their play
period comes when the supervisors open the nearest fire
hydrant for a street shower.

The vehicle covers ten locations, setting up at two of
them each day. It arrives at the same location once a week,
always at the same time and on the same day.

An Old Standby

The idea of a child and his dog always seems to interest
people everywhere; so for the past two years the Norfolk.
Virginia, Recreation Bureau has started its summer play-
ground city-wide activities program with a highly successful
special event, a Kids Dog Show.

Staged in cooperation with the Ken-L-Ration Company.
the bureau first holds preliminary dog shows at each indi-
vidual playground in various neighborhoods throughout the
city. Youngsters between the ages of six through fourteen
enter their canine charges to compete for ribbons in eight
classes. The dogs need not be pedigreed, and many fine
mongrels walk away with prizes.

The eight classifications are as follows: best costumed
dog, bcst cared for dog owned by a boy, best cared for dog
owned by a girl, largest dog, smallest dog. dog with the
shortest tail, and best trick dog. Playground leaders have
found that many tcen-agers take a genuine interest and
make excellent judges or are a big help in registering the
dags. Each young owner receives from the Kcn-L-Ration
Company a (log booklet, a balloon and a lollypop. Four
ribbons are awarded in each classification.

Blue-ribbon winners in all eight classifications from each

' playground are then eligible to compete in the two final

grand shows usually held on the following night at one of
our larger parks. Organization of these final events is simi-
lar to that of the large professional dog shows. Judges
have been veterinarians, S.P.C.A. members, or other adults
who love dogs and are keenly aware of the feeling children
have for their pets.

Preceding the show the Hampton Roads Obedience Train-
ing Club puts on an exhibition— to show that trained dogs
make better companions—which serves as an inspiration for
young dog owncrs.—-—YOLAI\'DA GRANT, playground leader.
Norfolk, Virginia. I

RECREATION

New York University
School ol Education

Leadership Education

in
Recreation and Camping

Courses lead to B.S., M.A., Ph.D.,
and Ed.D. Degree

At Washington Square

lnlersession—lune 3 - 28
Summer Session—July 1 - August 9

Post Session—August 12 ~Seplember 6

At Lake Sebago Camp

Inlersession—lune 1 - 20

Courses for Undergraduate
Men and Women

Summer Session—July 1 -Augusl 9
Courses for Graduate Students

17 rite for further information to:

Da. MILTON A. GABRIELSEN
School of Education
New York University
WASHINGTON SQUARE
New YORK 3, NEW YORK

APRIL 1957

 

  

 
  

   
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

ESPECIALLY DESIGNED
FOR HEAVY DUTY USE

7W” 0W
x.

-» o 'ut ‘
8’ zewmu 3- 1}?-

SIZE and /
r 

 
 
   

BALL BOUNCE _,

  
   
 
 

5

Fun For Everyone !

From 8 to 80 here is exciting recrea-
tion for all ages . . . Iteen enioyment
for players and spectators.

Rugged. Dimco FreeGlide Shuffle-
board sets are available for both out-
door and indoor installation.

Easy to install . . . low in upkeepl

Write today for colorful folder, "Let’r
Play Sbujj‘lebonr ,” containing com-
plete information on court layout and
equipment.

 
 
   

4 [£65 TO
EACH SECTION

   

2 SECTIONS

    
  
 

Nationally recognized and used by
the ARMED FORCES. COLLEGES.
MUNICIPAlITIES. RECREATION CEN-
TERS. SCHOOlS. ClUBS, PARKS.eIc.

 
 
  
 

 
 
   
  
 

° Na Maintenance ar Replacement Problems.
° Sturdy Lifetime Chanstructian.
° Heavy Duty Anadized Aluminum thraughoat.

" SECURELY iNSTALLED HEAVY GAUGE ,,
ALUMINUM CENTER NET-ALSO AVAILABLE.

  
  
  
  

 
 
 

7‘” w“ All METAL TENNIS TABLE (0.
DIMCO-GRAY COMPANY 333's“ P.O.BOX 142,TEANECK, NJ.

  

205 EAST SIXTH STREET
DAYTON 2. OHIO

  
   
 

 

 
 

GUARANTEED
NOT TO BREAK

O

CHIP 0R
CRACK

 
   
 
    

 
 
 
    
 
 

  
  
 
  

 

Available on
78 RPM or
'5

LP (331/3 '
s.

  a as 
I Ir I< Rhythms c  T

at]
a.

Play-Party
Singing-Games
Ed Durlacher's “Talk-Thraugh;
Walk-Thraugh" System at Sim-

Falk Dances
SQUARE DANCE ASSOCIATES
plified Progressive Instructlan,
fallawed by the Camplete Dance.

 
  
 

. _I 1.
0‘

    

 
 
 
 

 
   
 
 

"I—

 
  
 
 
 

P.O. Box 644, Freeport. N. Y.

I— __________________ __——l

I Mail coupon for FREE brochure on all Honor Your Partner Teaching Aids I
l SQUARE DANCE ASSOCIATES 9.0. Box 6“, 5009th N. Y. I
I Gentlemen: Pleose send me free brochure of Honor Your Portner Teaching Aids, I
I Name _ I
I Address _.__.__. .. _.__._— __ _ I

 

 

    

 
    
    
    
  
  

   
 
  
 
 

a

  for Mentally Handicapped Children

THIRTY-FIVE CHILDREN—aged from
seven to nineteen with mental
ages varying from approximately three
and a half to eight years— participated
when, on June 25, 1956, the recreation
department of the Memphis Park Com-
mission sponsored its first park recrea-
tion program for mentally handicapped
children. The children represented the
various types of mental retardation
found in the day school programs for
trainable severely mentally handicap-
ped children.

Two attendants for the playground
were employed by the department for
this special program: one a regular
classroom teacher in the local city
school system, assigned to the severely
mentally retarded program. In addi-
tion, two sixteen-year-old hoys, both
in advanced educable mentally handi-
capped groups in the city schools, were
engaged as assistants to the attendants.
The author served as an advisor and
consultant.

Theiphysical facilities of the Lenox
"Elementary School, a local public
school, was chosen, largely because
it was located near the center of the
city and a portion of the playground
was adequately fenced. Also, a large
auditorium with removable seats was
available, with toilet facilities adjoin-
ing it.

The playground was operated three
days per week—Monday, Wednesday,
and Thursday, from 1:00 to 4:00 P.M.
for a total of twenty-seven days of
operation. These hours worked very
well as they gave parents opportunity
to give their children their noon meal
before arriving at the playground and
to pick them up from the playground
before the evening traffic rush.

Prior to the actual opening on June
25, a tentative program included
crafts, games, folk dancing, rhythm

MR. PERRY is supervisor of exceptional
children for the Board of Education,
Memphis, Tennessee.

128

band, group singing. As was to be
expected, the program was under con-
stant evaluation and revision as the
apparent need and demand arose.

The first session was devoted to famil-
iarizing children and parents with the
proposed program and available physi-
cal facilities. Following a period of orien-
tation, during which an attempt was
made to determine each child’s needs
and abilities, the children were grouped
for the various activities. The hyper-
active children were assigned to those
where only a minimum of stimulation
was provided in accordance with the
children’s perceptural and emotional
limitations; while an attempt was made
to provide an abundance of stimulation
and motivation for the others.

All conceivable athletic equipment
was issued to the playground and we
tried to utilize each piece of equipment.
Physical activities that require gross co-
ordination met with more success than
those calling for a more minute or intri-
cate dexteriousness. These, such as
“playing catch” with a volleyball or
basketball, box hockey. and a somewhat
modified version of softball were well
received and beneficial to many of the
children. One child, a girl of fourteen,
who was both mentally and physically
handicapped and who could not stand
without the aid of crutches, learned to
catch a basketball although seated in a
chair. This learning situation not only
improved her eye-hand coordination,
but gave her a definite sense of accom-
plislnncnt and self-confidence.

Craft activities were many and some-
what varied, as an attempt was made to
provide the children with every oppor-
tunity to develop not only a leisure-
time activity or activities, but to in-
crease thcir ability to follow directions,
to improve coordination and self-confi-
(fence, and, most of all, the ability to
work together in groups of various
sizes. Such activities as simple weaving,
working with plaster of Paris, spatter
painting, as well as Opportunity to work

Harold W. Perry

with finger paint, water paint, crayons,
and clay, were provided.

One of the local civic organizations
provided milk daily for the children, as
well as cots for those of low vitality
who needed to lie down and rest during
the recreation period.

At the su mmer’s end, an “open house”
was held, during which the children’s
craft projects were displayed, the chil-
dren presented for parents and friends a
program of group singing, rhythm band
playing, and several individual per-
formances, and awards were given for
perfect attendance, good sportsmanship,
good conduct, and best all around play-
ground participation.

Without a doubt, the playground was
a success, if only for the above reasons
——but it also afforded parents, especially
mothers, a “break,” and gave them an
opportunity to see what their children
were capable of accomplishing in a
controlled environment.

The plan for the summer of 1957 is
to continue this program, increasing it
from three to four days a week, with
perhaps an increase in the number of
hours (from three to four) per day. It
is felt that it will be expedient to con-
tinue to use advanced educable men-
tally handicapped youngsters as assist-
ants to the playground attendants, in the
event that additional playgrounds of
like nature are established in the near
future. In this case, these youngsters
would he most beneficial to the success-
ful operation of the playground in many
respects, as they served very well in all
ways last summer.

Perhaps the most gratifying factor
was that more people not only are be-
coming interested in, but aetnally are
attempting to provide services for, men-
tally handicapped children. This was
evident in the sincere interest, coopera-
tion and enthusiasm demonstrated by
the superintendent of the Memphis Ree-
reation Department, Marion Hale. and
his entire staff. I

RECREATION

 

 

The Influence

of Rural Environment

on

CHILDREN

Anne S. Hoppock

Much in this article should be of significance to the recreation leader.

Two CHILDREN I know illustrate the

first point I want to make in dis-
cussing the impact of rural environ-
ment on children. These two ten-year-
old girls are cousins. Their families
live in neighboring farm houses. The
fathers rent their fields to nearby farm-
ers and make a living as mechanics. A
garden, a cow, and hens add to the
family resources. Both sets of parents
are high school graduates. They live
fairly comfortably but with few luxu-
ries. They spend a good bit of time to-
gether. The children walk a mile to the
little school in the village.

Jane lives zestfully. She has a dog
which she cares for faithfully, and with
it roams the countryside. She is writing
a book and consults gravely regarding
her writing problems with a young
teacher who lives in the neighborhood.
She is intensely interested in plant and
animal life and has a number of col-
lections including several live items.
She collects rocks and Indian artifacts.
She is an inveterate researcher into the
meanings of her out-of-door experi-
ence. In pursuing her various interests,
she exhausts available printed material
at home and school, asks questions of
everyone who might have information,
and writes to the county agricultural
agency. Jane swims, picnics, and sings
in the children’s choir in the church.

Condensed and reprinted with permis-
sion from Rural Education—A For-

ward Look, Yearbook 1955, National
Education Association. MISS HOPPOCK
is assistant in elementary education,
New Jersey State Department of Edu-
cation.

APRIL 1957

J ane’s cousin Carol, also ten, is quite
different in her interests and her ap-
proach to living. She is an avid comic
book reader. She is interested in cloth-
ing and is beginning to experiment with
cosmetics. She makes half-hearted at-
tempts to keep up with Jane’s pace,
but seldom follows through on projects
they start cooperatively. She evidences
little curiosity. She putters around the
house, spends more time indoors than
she does out.

It is dangerous to generalize about
the influence of the rural environment
on child development. Jane and Carol
seemingly live in the same rural en-
vironment, go to the same school, roam
the same fields and woods and streams
under the same sky. But even this su-
perficial description indicates the two
children are learning different values
and interests. ,Their lives are taking dif-
ferent directions. I cannot accurately
account for this since I have not studied
the children intensively.

This we do know, however. The ap-
propriations a country child makes
from the experiences available in his
environment and how these appropria-
tions affect his growth and development
depend upon several factors. One of
these is innate capacity. Another is his

family—its climate and relationships,
its values and attitudes, its guidance and
example. Another is his physical status
and condition, how much energy he has
to give to the business of livintr.

A second reason why it is impossible
to generalize regarding the influence of
the rural environment on child develop-

children and their families differ but so
do rural environments.

I would like to point up two some-
what common characteristics of rural
environments and raise questions re-
garding the potential effects, positive
and negative, on children:

First, we can assume that rural chil-
dren have unique opportunities for re-
sponsible participation in the enter-
prises of family living. How can we
assess the egects of these on develop-
ment?

A child’s responsibilities may vary,
from none at all to care of pets and
young children, domestic work, weed-
ing the garden, carrying wood, doing
chores around the barn, possibly even
helping in the planting, cultivating, and
harvesting of crops.

We have to ask about any child: Does
he work too hard and too long for his
physical well-being? Many rural chil-
dren do. Does work deprive him of
time for other experiences essential to
wholesome development? Does he have
a share in planning and choosing his
work and can he use some ingenuity in
carrying it out? Or does he do the same
jobs over and over, following adult di-
rections, until he is little better than a '
puppet? What is the family climate in

which he works?

Second, what is the efect on growth
and development of the country child’s
closeness to nature and natural phe-
nomena?

The freedom of most rural children
to range widely in the out-of-doors
makes available many vigorous physi-

ment is because not only do individual ’ cal activities. The best nursery schools

129

and kindergartens would be hard put to
duplicate the opportunities for running
and climbing, jumping and crawling
and throwing, for “messing around”
with natural materials such as sand,
mud, water, and snow. Depending upon
the locality, there are opportunities for
swimming, fishing, hiking, camping,
skiing, coasting, and adventurous ex-
ploring. It may be assumed that these
vigorous, happy pursuits contribute to
physical and emotional development.

Rural educators point out, too, that
rural children’s closeness to nature
makes available to them vivid first-
hand experiences which may contribute
to emotional stability and acquisition
of spiritual values.

In his eXplorations of his environ-
ment, the rural child is at best very
much in tune with his universe. He
may be grubby and tousled of hair but
he has distance in his eyes, wings on
his feet, and stardust in his hair.

Dr. Fannie Dunn, in her book, The
Child in the Rural Environment, de-
scribes the scientific and aesthetic ex-
periences of a young rural child in one
kind of natural setting, These excerpts
show him busy absorbing with eyes and
nose and ears and hands—indeed with
his whole self:

“Springtime brings sheets of purple
violets for a child to pick as much as

his hands can hold. Golden buttercups
held under his chin reveal if he likes

butter. . . . Catkins on the alders and
aspens scatter clouds of pollen when the
wind tosses them. Honeybees and bum-
blebees buzz from blossom to blossom
with big balls of pollen on their legs.
Apple, cherry, peach and plum blossoms
scatter and the newly formed fruit can
be seen at their base. . . .”

And later in her description: “He
wades in clear tumbling brooks, picks
his way through swampy meadows to
gather wild iris, fishes for minnows
along winding streams, skates or sails
his homemade boats on shallow ponds,
or rides in rowboats on lakes or rivers.
He climbs hills and descends into val-
leys in search of wild flowers, berries,
. . . He gathers rocks which at-
tract him because of the sparkle of mica,
the shining streaks of quartz or the red
of iron. . . . There may be clean white
sand for his handling or some malleable
clay or blue marl full of shell fossils.”

How can we say what it means to the
development of a child to live in the
open country where there is space to

or nuts.

roam and active, fascinating exploring
of the natural world to do? It is a
temptation to assume that the potential
values are realized, but experience tells
us that this is not necessarily so.

Lack of time is not the only reason

why some country children cannot bene-
fit from happy experiences in the out-
of-doors. It is unhappily true that some
country children do not have the skills
and the awareness to enjoy these pur-
suits. One has only to drive through the
countryside on a Sunday afternoon to
see children alone or in small groups,
just “hanging around,” bored, loneiy.

I know well an area where vegetables
are grown in the rich, black muckland.
It was formed when the glacier dammed
a small river. The fossil remains of a
mastodon was found in it. The fields are
rimmed with high blue hills, fun to
climb, where the fire-marked rocks of
Indian rock shelters may be found. . . .
This is an environment rich in aesthe-
tic, scientific, and historical meanings,
but the children’s interactions with it
were pitifully limited when I first knew
the1n—--—limited by too much work in the
fields, by barren homes, by lack of
adult guidance which would help to lift
their lives above the dull level of exis-
tence.

Whether a child sees or is blind to
the marvels about him, whether he hears
or is deaf to its deep meanings, whether
his curiosity is deadened by frustration
or remains a voice that impels him to
keep looking beneath the surface of
things—these depend to a great extent
on the adults who influence his life. I

746 70mm; Willow —————————————————————————————————————— __

A sixteeil-year-old girl sees the “country becoming a city.”

I live in the country."I am only a child and I love the
country. I’IJOv'e! its coziness. The soft snow makes the
troubled,‘ uneven grounds one; the icy cold makes the
turbulent, uneasy streams one. All the country sleeps to-

gether while it has beautiful dreams of children enjoying
its blanket.

I love the smells of the country. The crisp smell of the
leaves in autumn burning; the biting smell of the winter
air. And the smells of spring! The air that makes you yell,
“Good Morning!” to the world and empowers you to
awaken thc world.

I love the country. I can roll down and around its grassy
hillside; I can glide over its ground in winter, and leap over

it in the spring; I can climb its trees, which are bridges to
the sky. I am the country because I’m free.

But the city isn’t free. People are tight machines. They
are restricted by the clock. They are always rushing, but
they never leap. They can’t leap because they wear tight

suits, so tight they can’t bend down and become insignifi-
cant, letting nature envelop them.

130

I have a weeping willow tree by my house, and a babbling
brbok beside it. I sit under the branches of the weeping
willow tree, and become lost in its foliage so that no one
can tell l’m there, thinking, and throwing pebbles into the
brook, watching the never-ending circles.

I wish the country would be here forever, but I know it
will not. I have seen the soft, dirt paths being torn up and
concrete highways built in their stead. All the unevenness
of the path is taken out so the new roads will be smooth
routes on which to travel. But all the rolling, gliding and
leaping countryside is taken away too; and there is rushing
traffic; and the country becomes a city. I’m afraid for this
to happen, but my mother tells me not to fear. She tells me
that the city is beautiful, that it can be more beautiful than
the country. She tells me that you can stretch in the cit ';
that you can expand in so many more ways; that the con-
slant building is the bridge to the sky. The skyscrapers are
the tallest weeping willows in the world. Then, I guess I
won’t need my weeping willow tree, but I will always hold
it in my memory. And not forget. Many adults (la—JANE
GITELMAN, Merrick, New York. I

RECREATION

A

Town Meeting
with
Delinquents

Robert L. Smith

EMBERS of the planning committee for the Oakland

(California) Town Meeting wanted their meeting

on delinquency to be different. They felt that in too many

such meetings only the attitudes, ideas, and opinions of
“good boys and girls” are presented.

On February 27, 1956, therefore, the California Youth
Authority, in cooperation with the Alameda County Proba-
tion Department, selected a panel of four delinquents to dis-
cuss delinquency and the problems facing Oakland youth.
The group consisted of two Anglo-Saxon youths, one four-
teen and one sixteen; a nineteen-year-old Negro boy; and
a nineteen-year-old boy of Greek-Spanish extraction. Two
were parolees under the supervision of the California Youth
Authority, and two were being supervised by the Alameda
County Probation Department. The offenses which had
brought these young men into conflict with society ranged
from battery to auto theft.

The session was tape recorded; but the fidelity of the
recording, when completed, was not sufficiently high to per-
mit reproduction of the discussions. In an effort to utilize
material that appeared interesting and important, excerpts
were taken from this recording for future training uses..
In preparing the training material, direct quotes were used.
A few of these follow:

Moderator: What about public recreation provided by the
city? Do boys in trouble avoid these kinds of places?
Pete: No. When I was a kid I used to box at St. Mary’s,
but they closed down the club. I didn’t have anything
I wanted to do, so I used to go down to the English Pie
Shop to steal pies. One of the times we went down, we acci-
dentally got into the men’s locker room and decided since
we were there, we would take the wallets and money in the
pants hanging around the room. We didn’t go there to
steal the money, but because of our accidentally getting
into this room, we did steal it. . . . I think if kids had jobs
to earn money, it would keep a lot of them out of trouble.
Dick: One of the things that takes lots of- money for a boy,
if he’s fifteen or sixteen and has a car—well, he has to
have money for gasoline and money to take his girl out.
If the parents are in debt—they would like to be able to

Condensed and reprinted with permission. from Youth
Authority Quarterly, Sacramento, California. MR. SMITH
is a neld representative for the Division of Field Services,
California Youth Authority.

APRIL 1957

give the boy money but they aren’t able to. If you have no
job, you don’t know where to turn—you may get money by
stealing. You don’t have to steal but it is pretty hard to do
without things that other kids have.

Norman: In the summertime, there aren’t always too many
things to do and when it rains there aren’t too many things
to do at public recreation places. You can’t play outside
and if you play inside you have to wait your turn to play
Ping-pong or pool. Maybe you would have to wait an hour
or two hours to get your turn. Kids need more programs
in the wintertime.

Moderator: I would like to review what ideas I think I have
heard thus far. The idea of a job, a source of income to
let young people do some of the things they would like to
do, is important to young men. Norman mentioned better
recreation during the winter, when it was raining and there
weren’t too many things to do elsewhere. He expressed the
desire for a greater variety of activities. Do you have any
other ideas about what might get kids into trouble?

Joe: I think the reason some kids don’t get into trouble is
that they have hobbies, they have something to do, they
have a responsibility, they have a good home, and they are
interested in their neighbors and their community and peo-
ple like them and they are a part of the community.

Joe: Churches and adults think they understand what kids
want but actually they don’t.

Norman: The recreation facilities have to be fixed up and
they need someone around to help you out and to teach you
the rules for the games.

Moderator: You would speak for more facilities for youth
on weekends when schools are closed. You also ask the
recreation people for more people to help you with the rec-
reation programs.

Dick: In our neighborhood we used to go to the neighbor-
hood movie on Friday nights,-and all the kids used to just
know to be there on Friday nights. But they closed down
the theater and it is a long way downtown, so some of us
got into trouble because we started hanging around on the
streets, after our movie closed down.

(NOTE: Here Dick seemcd to be pointing out the import-

ance of community recreation at the neighborhood level and
emphasizing the fact that the simple act of closing down a
neighborhood theater may result in increased delinquency
for that neighborhood.)
Pete: I think where neighborhoods are bad, they are just
bad. In the bad parts of town there just isn’t any recrea-
tion that is good. It is too far to go to parks or recreation
centers that are out of these areas.

(NOTE: Here Pete seemed to draw a much narrower pic-
ture of what constitutes a neighborhood for a youngster as
compared with the neighborhoods defined by civic organiza-
tions.)

I think that recreation people should ask the kids more
about what kind of recreation they want and there should
be a greater variety. I think they should build up little
centers for the mothers and fathers. Parents 'can cause
delinquency, and they need help like kids in trouble. They

need to be taught how to deal with kids and how to help
them. I

131

 

   

 

People in the News

JAMES E. MADISON, NRA field repre-

sentative, is now in Europe for a two
month period of service with the United
States Air Force. He will visit bases in
Germany, France, England, Morocco,
Libya, Turkey, Greece, Italy and Spain,
for the purpose of assisting with the im-
provement of organizations, manage-
ment and operation of facilities and
personnel.

Following this assignment,Mr.Madi-
son will take a three-month leave of
absence from the Association to serve
as a recreation specialist in Pakistan
under the International Educational
Exchange Service of the U. S. State
Department.

L. C. WILSEY retired as director of
recreation of the Essex County, New
Jersey, Park Commission on April 1.
He is succeeded by Harold J. Van Cott.

JAMES C. DITTMAR, recreation di-
rector in Williamsport, Pennsylvania,
was named onc of the city’s two out-
standing “Young Mcn of 1956” by the
.. local Junior Chamber of Commerce. He
was cited for his work in developing

 

A REPORTER’S NOTEBOOK

new neighborhood playground associa-
tions, additional ice-skating facilities,
stimulating planning for municipal
swimming, furthering the development
of the city-owned golf course, organiz-
ing and promoting a golden-age club.
His twin brother, John, is recreation
director in State College, Pennsylvania.

OLGA M. MADAR, recreation director
of the United Auto Workers since 1948,
is the first woman to be appointed to
the seven-member board of commis-
sioners of the Huron-Clinton Metro-
politan Authority, Michigan. The au-
thority is responsible for recreation
programs and areas in the five counties
surrounding Detroit.

MARION HALE, sUperintendent of rec-
rcation in Memphis, Tenncssec, won
the 1956 Newspaper Guild of Mcmphis
Citizenship Award. He was chosen for
his “record of continuous ciTort to im-
prove rccreation facilities for children
and adults.” He becamc superintendent
of recreation in 1949, and since that
time the total of Memphis playgrounds
has risen from twenty-nine to seventy-
nine. He joined the recreation depart-
ment as a basketball referee after school
at twenty-fivc ccnts an hour.

Josavnma D. RANDALL, formcr su-
pcrintendent of recreation in San Fran-
cisco, California, has started a ycar’s
tour of Europe as goodwill ambassador
representing the California Recreation
Society. Beforc her departure she at-
tended the twcnticth anniversary of the
Josephine D. Randall Junior Museum
which she helped establish February 13,
1937.

LAWRENCE P. (PETE) Mosan, execu-
tive director of the recreation dcpart-
ment in Kalamazoo, Michigan, has been
elected president of the Babe Ruth
League youth baseball program for
1957. Some 75,000 boys participated
in Babe Ruth baseball in 1956.

“To Talk, Hover and Poke”

An eight-month festival, from April
through November, marks the 350th an-
niversary of the founding of J anles-
town, Virginia, by a small band of Eng-
lish colonists on May 13, 1607. Festival

focus point will be the state’s new $1,-
500,000 Jamestown Festival Park.

The festival will mark not only a
milestone in the history of Jamestown
and America but also a milestone in the
history of RECREATION Magazine, for in
its very first issue, April 1907, it noted
plans for a playground exhibition at the
Jamestown Exposition of that year,
sponsored by the Playground Associa-
tion of America (now the National Bec-
reation Association). This exhibition.
directed by Howard Bradstreet, was
divided into two parts, indoor and out-
door.

The indoor exhibit was in the “Social
Economy Building,” Jamestown being
“the first exposition to devote an entire
building to the work of the finer, less
material side of the world’s activities
grouped under the head ‘Social Econ-
omy.’ ” In addition to photographs and
examples of playground equipment and
crafts, this indoor showf contained a
model of a playground in operation, il-
lustrating possibilities of inexpensive
equipment, which made people, “talk,
hover and poke.” The outdoor section
consisted of an actual playground with
apparatus, mainly of a type similar to
gymnasium equipment.

ln 1936, Jamestown Island and the

ruins of the ancient “cittie” became .

part of the 7,229-acre Colonial -Na-
tional Historical Park along with his-
toric Yorktown. Between Yorktown and
Jamestown lics Bockefeller-rcstored
Williamsburg, where thc capital of the
colony was moved from Janlcstown in
1699. For the first time, all threc of
thesc sites are linked by the scenic.
limited-access Colonial Parkway, rc-
ccntly completed by thc Park Service.

New \Vaterlaml

An extcnsive tristate recreation and
sports area has become availablc for
public usc with the completion of the

mile-long, $61,000,000, Jim WoodruiT
Dam at Chattahoochce, Florida. On the
Georgia-Florida boundary, not far from
thc southwest tip of Alabama, thc dam

RECREATon

LET’S ALL PLAY BALL WEEK
April 6-13

 

and its big reservoir will provide a new
water area of 37,000 acres and shore-
line of 243 miles. State, county and
municipal agencies in the three states,
as well as the federal government, are
developing park and recreation areas
around the dam site, at the junction of
the Chattahoochee and Flint Rivers,
which meet to form the Apalachicola
River.

Areas now licensed or planned for
public use total some three thousand
acres, of which 1,250 are being de-
veloped by state agencies, 1,300 by
counties and 450 by municipalities.

Salute to Youth

New York City held its first “Salute
to Youth Week” in March to focus at-
tention on the fact that “the overwhelm-
ing majority of youth in New York City
are decent law-abiding citizens making
valuable contributions to the general
welfare of the community.” In connect-
tion with the observance, “Youth
Credo” pledges were circulated among
public and parochial school teen-age
pupils, affirming the students’ commit-
ment to the ideals of. good citizenship
and behavior for youth week “and the
whole year through.”

Six hundred “Certificates of Merit,”
signed by Mayor Robert Wagner, were
awarded to teen-agers who were lead-
ers of outstanding projects for the bene-

 

APRIL 1957

fit of their schools and the community.
Bronze medals went to thirty students

for exceptional school-community con-
tributions.

Softball Recommendations

A survey on youth softball conducted
by the Junior Softball Committee of the
Amateur Softball Association resulted
in a number of recommendations adopt-
ed by the Association at its annual
meeting in Mesa, Arizona, earlier this
year. It also adopted a complete set of
rules for slow-pitch softball and accept-

ed a complete recodification of official
softball rules, effective for the 1958
season.

For the coming year the ASA recom-
mends that youth softball teams be
formed using the following age-group
classifications: nine to twelve, thirteen
to fifteen and sixteen to eighteen years
of age. For tournament play the ASA
program for boys and girls will include
city-wide tournaments (age-groups:
nine to twelve, thirteen to fifteen, six-
teen to eighteen), county-wide tourna-
ments (age-groups: thirteen to fifteen
and sixteen to eighteen), with state
competition in the sixteen to eighteen
group only. No area or national com-
petition will be sanctioned.

Diamond specifications recommend-
ed were forty-five'foot baselines and
thirty-five foot pitching distance for the
nine to twelve age-group and regular
softball baseline (sixty feet) and pitch-
ing distance (forty-six feet) for the
older groups. No changes in present
regulation equipment were made.

A national slow-pitch softball tourna-
ment will be held in Toledo, Ohio, in
September. The game is very popular
with persons over twenty-five and is
growing rapidly in business and indus-
trial concerns, recreation leagues and
independent leagues here and abroad.

Fairway in the Desert

In Nevada, sage and sand have given
way to the lush fairways of an eighteen-
hole golf course because residents of
two small desert towns and servicemen
stationed nearby combined their money
and energy to begin the course. The
project involves residents of Babbitt
(2,464) and Hawthorne (1,861) and
servicemen stationed at Babbitt Naval
Ammunition Depot. The needed water

comes from Walker Lake, an artificial
dam and reservoir adjacent to the
course.

Three Thousand a Day

A recent apprOpriation of $500,000
from the Ford Foundation will enable
the National Committee on the Aging to
set up an information and consultation
service to assist organizations and com-
munity groups “engaging in or wishing
to provide or eXpand services to older
people in such fields as employment,
housing, health and recreation.” G.
Warfield Hobbs, committee chairman,
points out, “The increase of approxi-
mately three thousand persons every
day in the group aged sixty-five and
over in our country presents a new chal-
lenge to American social and economic
policy.” This is the first grant the Ford
Foundation has made for service to
senior citizens. l

The National Committee on the Ag-
ing is holding its 1957 Spring meeting
in Detroit, April 17 and 18. The meet-
ing’s over-all subject is “Older people
and the Industrial Community.”

Danger Spots

One of the “principal danger spots”
for- senior citizens is the lack of ade-
quate community programs and serv-
ices for them, according to B’nai B’rith,
a major American Jewish organization.
At a recent meeting in New York City,
Philip M. Klutznick, president of B’nai
B’rith, urged “c00perative action” by
federal and local government and com-
munity organizations “to ameliorate
the threats to our aged and aging popu-
lation.”

1956 Playground Issues

The 1956 RECREATION Magazine
Playground Issue is still available.
Order copies you want immediately—
fifty cents a copy.

 

APRIL IS I. g;

 

 

Winning entry was towed to the field by a truck but was pulled
in parade by twenty youngsters. It showed various activities.

Dione THAN ONE THOUSAND children marched in the latest
Louisville, Kentucky, Playgrounds on Parade program
~—one answer to the problem of getting everyone interested
in summer projects that may have become routine through
annual use.

The general program supervisor for the city division of
recreation, Mrs. Vivian Collins, began the Louisville parade
to obtain maximum interest in the city-wide playground
track and field meet which is a traditional part of its summer
program. Interest in the meet itself has always been high
enough to attract a lot of entrants each year. However,
spectator attendance and interest on the part of non-compet-
ing children was often spotty before the parade idea was
started.

The first parade was held in 1955, and the lessons learned
from that expericnce paid off in nearly onc hundred per
cent participation in 1956. “Playgrounds on Parade has
_ boosted attendance and participation,” Mrs. Collins says,
“and interested many children in athletics for the first time.
It also gave each child who helped with the floats a sense
of accomplishment.” '

What is the Playgrounds on Parade? It is an old-
fashioned, fancy-float parade strictly for children 011 the
playgrounds. Thcy make all of the floats, and thus receive
valuable handcraft experience. Those who participate in
the track meet get a lift from having a rooting section and
a colorful float from their playground supporting them.
Non-competing children come to parade, then stay to watch
the track meet. Playground leaders report a sharp increasc
in interest in track and field activities during the weeks that
follow.

How It \Vas Done

At a playground leader staff meeting six weeks before

_———

MR. MEEHAN is publicity supervisor for the Louisville Divi-
sion of Recreation and is a senior at the University 0/ Louis-
ville.

134

Playgrounds

A story in which one program is
used to stimulate interest in another.

the event, the parade-track meet was discussed. The event
was already outlined in a staff manual given each play-
ground worker at the beginning of the summer season.

Very few restrictions were placed upon type of floats that
could be entered, in order to give playground workers and
children a chance to use their imaginations. The main idea
was to stimulate a pageant spirit, to promote intcrest in the 1
event among the children—and the workers. I

Thc only strict rule was that the floats entered in the
parade had to be pulled by hand, by children from the play- '
ground entering the float. This man}-little-hands-pulling1
policy kept the size of the floats within reasonable limits. I

It was also suggested that members of each playground‘s I
track team follow the float in the parade. This gave a big-
time, near-Olympic flavor to the evcnt and the children
seemcd to fcel the whole thing was something special.

After the 'initial staff meeting announcement. rccreation
supervisors touring the city’s playgrounds continually men-
tioned tlIc program and offered help. Some of the ideas
worked out made float building seem like a pretty simple
task aftcr all.

One supervisor suggcsted, and tested successfully. the
idea of joining two bicycles together with two-by-fours
and U-bolts. In this way a light platform could be built
onto two bicycles for an effective float base. Other sug-
gestions adoptcd included pushcart float beds and light auto
trailers for float beds. Still othcr floats wcrc made with odd
sets of wagon wheels and scrap lumbcr.

Workers found that getting the base of a float is thc most
diflicult part of the job. Once a base is built, chicken wire.
scrap wood, cardboard, paper napkins, tissue paper and"
othcr odds and cnds can be used for the “show part” of the
float. Some float-building idcas were obtained from the

recrcation library and the public library.

With everybody working, the parade idea caught on so
well that fifty-three of Louisville’s sixty playgrounds cntered
floats. Tbc scvcn playgrounds not represented with floats

RECREATION

on Parade

John Meelian

were smaller playgrounds; but even they got into the act
with groups marching in home-made costumes.

Parents of the playground children also caught the float
fever, and helped to secure wood, chicken wire, paper and
other items that could not be provided from city stocks.
They also provided transportation for many children to the
parade site and helped interest other adults in the projects.

Only children and playground leaders actually worked on
the floats. Parent participation was diplomatically chan-
neled to prevent the parade from becoming a “show-off”
race between adult groups in different neighborhoods.

Adult-child interest was shown on track meet day when
over one thousand children showed up to participate in the
parade. These children brought parents and friends who
made up a Spectator section of about two thousand—more
than attend many high school and college track meets.

The track meet and parade was held in a Louisville park

—thus eliminating the special policing required for a street

parade. The park locale also made it possible for many
i families to turn the event into a picnic outing.

The parade received a further “big league” touch when
civic leaders were asked to serve as parade judges, including
Charles F arnsley, a former mayor of Louisville.

Awards given for the winning floats were merely token
cups and ribbons. Awards do not have to be large or ex-
pensive for children to get full benefit from the event.

Benths of Parade-Track Meet

Here’s how the parade-track meet combination helped the
recreation pr0gram in Louisville and might benefit other
cities. It:

0 Gave children on all playgrounds a feeling of being part
of a big event.

0 Interested parents in this and other recreation activities.

0 Encouraged non-competing children to investigate track
and field sports.

APRIL 1957

 

A young Chinese-American girl served as the iIISpiration for
one of the colorful floats which was transported rickshaw style.

0 Brought people into a city park and encouraged them to
use it.

o Proved to be a wonderful morale booster for a mid-sum-
mer event.

0 Taught many children arts and crafts skills, let them plan
and execute a “big” project from start to finish.

4! Helped, through its “natural” publicity value, to call

.attention to several phases of the recreation program.

Suggestions

Here are suggestions for those planning a similar event:

0 Be specific in limiting size of floats. In future programs
Louisville will have a big float and a little float class to give
playgrounds of all sizes an equal chance.

0 If desirable for the event you are planning, establish a
float theme. Louisville may have an athletic theme for the
next program. However, the general, or pageant, idea seems

\

to work well.

0 Let parents gather materials and help with transporta-
tion, but let the children build the floats. Grown-up com-
petition (in this instance) can go too far._,

0 Give everyone plenty of notice. Floats take time to build.
It takes time to generate interest.

0 The parade does not have to be part of a track meet. It
will pep up any traditional summer event. ‘
0 Although well satisfied with the crowd at Louisville’s
parade, officials felt that the event could be made bigger if
desirable. Louisville’s-parade was held on a, weekday—
a week-end parade should attract more off-fro‘m-work
fathers. ‘ .
0 Louisville played down advance“ publicity to keep the
event a playground project. Advance publicity efforts could,
of course, build spectator attendance. i A

While things still remain to be done ‘in this two-year-old
program, the parade provides an excellent way to stimulate
additional interest in any," activity that hasubeconle a stand-
ard parttof‘a cominlunityj's' summer recreationschedulie. I

\
I ~ «A x

x . k .- i
3 ~ , 135

I .
r. .t “2| r ' .
" 1 .

"Dennis the Menace"

PLAYGROUND

Here is unique playground equipment.
._ , ~‘Vhat do recreation superintendents
think of it? We will be interested in

receiving your opinion.

The material on these pages was prepared from information provided
by Charles F. Warren, assistant city manager, Monterey, California,
and by H ank Ketcham and This Week Magazine. Picture captions and

'3'
Wave

9'56 pars-4:..an _..- we

here loday. I brought MY whistle!"

 

cartoons are adapted with permission from article by Barbara Duniway

and F. Leland Elam, in The Town Journal, February 1957.

HIS IS THE DAY of experimentation in playground equip-
Tment—in a search for a type which will be the safest,
the most attractive, and which will truly stimulate creative
and educative play. “Creative equipment,” so labelled, is
being turned out by several manufacturing companies; and
the inventions of Joe Brown of Princeton University (see
RECREATION, December 1954, page 576) have been widely_
discussed and installed in some instances.

Some playground directors, superintendents and leaders
are watching, and some are participating, in cooperation
with expert builders, architects, educators, in trying out
new ideas. Interesting developments are reported along
these lines, as an ever-widening assortment of people be-

THE LITTLE RIVER. Below, this wandering stream was de- 

signed specifically for the sailing of tiny boats or the launch-
ing of leaves and twigs which become rafts, pirate ships and
huge ocean liners in wonderons world of childhood fantasy.

 

 

come involved in these projects. It goes without saying.
of course, that parents are always interested in anything
that affects their children, and a number of talented mothers
and fathers have made suggestions or contributions.

§ucl1 has happened in the case of the unique “Dennis the
Menace” playground in Monterey, California, which today
is attracting attention throughout the nation.

Hank Ketcham—who designed it and constructed it from
a dump, at the request of the Junior Chamber of Com-
Inercc— is thc creator of the loved cartoon, “Dennis the

Menace.” He is, naturally, a father, or he would never

have thought of Dennis in the first place. Anyway. he and
Arch Garner, an artist-sculptor friend, took the Jaycees Up
on their offer to let them design an original playground and
went to work. The city planning commission had designated
one and a third formerly useless acres as a site, and agreed
to provide necessary landscaping and installation of equip-
ment if the Jaycees raised money for the equipment.

 

n;
- '-

BALANCING BRIDGE. If your hcart skips a hcat every time

junior balances prccarionsly on a high fence. you would ap-

, prcciate this safe and successful equipment that gives him a
“Maui; ‘ chance to satisfy the urge to perform some balancing feats.

RECREATION

 

Community interest was stirred and considerable support
was forthcoming, not only in the form of fund-raising events
but through donations of labor as well; and Monterey got
its playground on a comparative shoestring—for, at best,
the equipment was not expensive. The whole thing cost
around $30,000. (You can do it, too! Just write the Mon-
terey J aycees, for they are making the plans available upon
request.)

Now open, the play area is built on soft white sand and
filled with gain colored and highly original apparatus,
which to date, has excited the imagination of children and
experts alike. Of course, its practicability is just being tried
dut, and isn’t known yet, but record-breaking attendance of
both children and parents is reported.

The planning of the equipment makes an interesting story,
and Hank tells it in a recent issue of This Week Magazine.
He says“ in part:

“I have found myself hopelessly enmeshed, concerned
and dependent upon the daily activity of a four-and-half-
year-old towheaded independent named ‘Dennis the Men-
ace.’ Dennis lives not more than thirty-six inches above
the ground—or the piano, chair, box or wherever he hap-
pens to stand at the moment. You can’t appreciate Dennis
unless you spend a part of each day on your knees. You
will be amazed at the change in scenery from there . . . The
cookie jar so far away, and why don’t they build window
sills lower?

*Quoted by permission from “A Playground Really Built for Kids,”
by Hank Ketcham, This Week, January 26, 1957. Copyright 1957 by
the United Newspapers Magazine Corporation.

APRIL 1957

THE UMBRELLA TREE. Left, this climb-

ing device is Hank Keteham’s answer to
that impish yen to squirm, wriggle, clam-
ber and jump. It is welded smooth at the
joints to avoid sharp edges, has a protee-
tive coating of gay plastic. Soft sand cnsh-
ions any fall. It encourages the child to
work off some of that excess exuhcrant en-
ergy that may make him seem just like a
little demon when hc is around the house.

 

“He and the other miniature citizens are loaded with
energy, enthusiasm and curiosity. Too old for crib, too
young for school, they demand either breathless pursuit or
breathtaking play.

“Second-guessing a child is a precarious procedure. Ela-
borate toys are often cast aside for some device like an
eggbeater. A trip to the zoo sounds fun, but, more often
than not, the child’s fun is swinging on the railing in front
of the cages instead of looking at what they contain.

“What we wanted was a playground with a maximum of
do’s and a minimum of don’t’s. We wanted a project that
was not large, not expensive and not exclusive—one that
others could copy and improve upon.

“But here are things that children do!

 

 

sit climb roll throw

“There is only one crossed off: Throw—for obvious
reasons. On the other hand, there’s one we worked over-
time: Pretend. Children love to pretend. Take that appa-

TRICYCLE COURSE. Leave it to the small fry to find an ad-

ditional use for this concrete path for trieycle or rollcr skates
—rnnning a crooked mile. That’s the beauty of this play-
ground: it stimulatcs youngsters to use their imaginations.

 

t

    

/THE THING. This apparatus does nol seem like anylhing lhat
an adull could use, but i1 sure is wonderful for playing “Lel’s
Pretend.” To one child i1 may be a space ship, lo anolher i1 is
a plane or a easlle, but lo all il offers opporlunities to slide,
hide, crawl, jump and climb. This free-form piece, of steel

rods and expanded metal, is forty feet long and eight feel high.

ratus we put together, ‘The Thing." It does not look like
anything any adult would use, but to one child it is a space
ship; to another, a huge fish; to two girls, a castle; and to
all of them, it is rampant with opportunities to slide, hide,
crawl, jump, climb—and pretend.”

Mr. Keteham, in exerting his obvious flair for color and
design, also added, among other, the following pieces which
a e proving magnetic to young and old alike:
giant Swing Ride. This crane-like device is designed for
a long, sweeping ride. Constructed of steel and covered
with plastic, it is so delicately balanced as-to enable a rider
topropel it merely by shifting the weight of his body.
Umbrella Tree. This “ideal climbing tree” measures eighteen
feet in height and seventeen feet in diameter. Its limbs
are steel rods so spaced that no handheld is ever out of
reach of the little climbers. A platform makes a fine look-
out, and the supporting poles make excellent sliding for
“' ircnien.”

he Play Mountain. The surface of a giant mound of earth
is covered with miniature roads, tunnels and houses for toy

e r traffic.

’gaze. The tricycle course leads into an intriguing maze of
colored plastic-covered telephone poles, which have been
carefully sanded smooth. There is a carved totem pole in
)lne center.

Spring Gym. A twelve-foot high spiral, constructed of
stainless steel pipe, achieves a very “springy” climbing
apparatus.

Lion Drinking Fountain. A friendly lion six feet high, made
of fiberglass, offers a drinking fountain to thirsty children.
The water-valve mechanism is designed to permit even the
very “small fry” the opportunity to have a drink, although
they may have to climb up onto the lion’s llaunches.

Old Number 1285. A steam switch engine built in 1924,
weighing 155,000 pounds, with a fifty-thousand-pound ten-
der, was donated by the Southern Pacific Company. Old
Number 1285 was moved from the railroad siding through
the cooperation of Company C of the 84th Engineering
Battalion, U.S. Army, Fort 0rd, California. The firedoors
are welded shut, two stairways lead to the cab, and safety
handrails havejbcicn welded on. It brings one touch of

realism to  playground:
(

138 _  ‘

I41E WADING POOL. Playing in this, and

riding on lhe rafl thal floats freely in four
inches of water, beats making mudpies.
The rafl is of slyrofoam and wood; eolored
plastie forms of fish and marine life, as
found on the local beaehes, have been im-
bedded in lhe bottom of the pool which
measures fifleen by forty feet. Equipment
does 1101 have 10 be stereolyped 10 be safe.

 

 

Actual construction began in September 1955, when the
playground area was graded. Drainage and sprinkling
facilities were installed by the city’s own forces. A welder
employed by the Jayeees utilized city facilities to fabricate
the equipment pieces under Mr. Carner’s’ direction. As
soon as each piece of equipment was completed and judged
safe, it was moved to the playground and mounted on a
foundation within an area of pure white sand, eighteen
inches deep. Each was studied carefully to see if it was
really safe to play on, was strong enough to stand up under
the treatment the children would give it, and if they really
liked it.

After these three conditions were satisfied, the items were
ready for a protective covering for their outdoor use.
Again, more experimentation was necessary to meet the
problems of overcoming the deteriorating effects of local
salt air and heavy usage. Finally. a uniform product was
selected—Polyester Resin—which appears to have the de-
sired qualities and also adaptability for color.

The playground is open to the public from eight Mt.
until dusk with no admission charge.

Mr. \Varren says, in an article to be published in The
American City: “The project is well 011 its way to proving
the validity of several recreation theories: Children seem
never to tire of something which provides both exercise
and an outlet for imagination; parents will bring their
children to an ‘out-of-tlle-neigllborhood’ playground and
stay with them to provide parental supervision; and play-
ground equipment does not need to be stereotyped in order
to be safe, practical and within a reasonable financial range.

“The city of Monterey has only one problem in connec-

tion with the faeility—-—there is need for about three more
like. it.” I '

RECREATION

The (Girl in the Blue Denim Shirt,
er I was a Supervisor fer the WBIPR

This unique melodrama (which every playground leader will recognize as auto-
biographical) was lived through by Connie Bloomquist, who submitted it with
her playground report to the Board of Parks and Recreation, Winnipeg, Canada.

 

TIME: July and August 1956 ahout

two o’clock.

SCENE: St.
Canada.

CAST: Connie Bloomquist, supervisor,
and the children of St. James Park.

James Park, Winnipeg,

CURTAIN

Supervisor enters, walking hicycle,
is greeted by a mob of hright eager
faces.

“What are we going to do today,
Connie? Hey? What are we going to
do?”

“You’ll see. Just let me park my bike.”

“What time is it, Connie?”

“Two o’clock. Let’s play dodgehall!”

“Can I be. captain?”

“Can I be captain?”

“I’ve never been captain.”
“Please . . .”

,9

“Please . . .

“Ray and Garth can he captains. They
can yell the loudest.”

“I can yell, honest.” (Demonstra-
tion.)

“Ray and Garth are captains. Every
body else line up against the fence to
be picked.”

“What time is it, Connie?”

“Eight after two.”

“What are we going to do after this.
Connie?”

“You’ll see . . .”

Scene changes, showing supervisor
sitting under a tree watching a rousing
(lodgeball game. One by one stragglers
are placed on the teams, and the crowd
soon grows to ahout forty. After each
team has worked off its sadistic tenden-
cies hy clohbering their pals with the
dodgeball, a game of Red Rover is or-
ganized.

Supervisor begins counting heads,

APRIL 1957

“Ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen, four-

teen. . . .”
“What timc is it, Connie?”
“Two-thirty . . . fifteen, sixteen, sev-

enteen, eighteen, nineteen. . . .”

“Red Rover, Red Rover, we call
Kenny over.”

“He’s too little. You guys always call
the little guys.”

Hot and puffing, the children finish
their game. The supervisor speaks,
“Let’s sit under the tree and cool off
I’ll tell
Janey a message, and she’ll pass it to
Bill, and so on around the circle. It

with a sitting-down game!

doesn’t matter if it sounds silly, pass it
on anyway. Okay?” Whispers, “It is
hot today.”-

Janey: “Pardon?”

Con: “Pass it on.”

Janey: “Isishottaday ? ”
Bill: “Isisishottada?”

Anne: “I didn’t hear him.”

Group: “Come on, pass it on.”

Anne: “I don’t remember it!”

Group: “Come on, stupid, pass it
on!”

Anne (in tears): “I don’t remem-
her.”

Con: “Oh well, everyone looks cool
now anyway. Let’s read a story. How
about Paul Bunyan?”

Ages 7-10: “Yah! !”

Ages 10-13: “Can we take out the
croquet set?”

Ages 5-7: “I wanna sit beside Con-
nie.”

“What time is it, Connie?”

“Three fifteen, and don’t ask me
again!”

So goes the afternoon, until 3:45
when the big moment arrives—“Time
for crafts.” (Cheers and general hulla-
baloo, while tables are being dragged
out, and so on.)

The craft project is paper-hag masks.
The supervisor explains in detail, gives
out the paper bags and waits for the

deluge.

9!

“Cut out my eyes, Connie. . . .
“Can I have some green ears?”
“Do one for my little hrother.”
“Fred won’t give me the scissors.”
“Please, Connie, fix mine for me?”
“Please. . . .”

Children mill around the supervisor
waving bags, ears, hair and pasty
fingers. But the supervisor seems pre-
occupied. She Speaks:

“Forty-two, forty-three, forty-four,
forty-five. . . .”

“D0  u o 0,,

“Forty-six, forty-seven. . . .”

“What time is it, Connie?”

“Four forty-five.”

At last the crafts are cleared away,
and activity begins to taper off. A
group gathers to sing:

“There’s a hole in the bottom of the

sea.

There’s a hole in the bottom of the

sea.

There’s a ho-O-o-o-o-le. . . .

“Is it five o’clock yet, Connie?”

“Five past.”

“Yikes! I’ll miss Rin-Tin-Tin!”

He leaps up and tears home, fol-

lowed hy half the other songsters, all

members of Rin-Tin-Tin Fan Club
Number 6483.

The last hour passes uneventfully,

5!

except for a few minor scrimmages in
the croquet game, and a violent game
of swing tag, which has to be called on
humanitarian grounds.

As the sun sinks slowly in the west,
we wave farewell to shady St. James
Park. The “Girl in the Blue Denim
Skirt” climbs aboard her bicycle and
turns toward the setting ‘sun.

(Voices fade in the distance) “What
time is it, Connie?”

(Jubilantly) “Six o’clock!” I

139

 

 

Throughout history, May Dancing has had great peaks of pop-
ularity. Here, May Day, as conducted in Havana, Cuba, is a
gala affair—thanks to the fine work of the Mothers’ Club.
Boys and girls, from tiny lots in sunbonncls Io Ieen-agers in
court costume, dance the traditional May Day dances—Bean-
Selling; Looby Loo; Oats, Peas, Beans; and Virginia Reel.

T HE MAYPOLE DANCE is a survival of an ancient fertility
rite. In its oldest form, it was a circle dance around
a tree. Today, the tree has been replaced by a gaily fes-
tooned pole which has become a symbol of sprin a. The May-
pole Dance is the high point of May Day festivals.

Throughout history, May Day dancing has had great
peaks of interest and p0pularity. Although the Maypole
was banned by Cromwell, it came back with the Restoration.
In the early part of this century, Maypole Dance competi-
tions were still quite the vogue in England. Figures danced
in these competitions are incorporated in the dance de-
scribed here.

This dance is easily adjusted to requirements of the
occasion. With children’s groups, it may be advisable to
omit the more complex figures. For a more elaborate
presentation, a very effective, spectacular entrance may be
danced to the Festival Processional (F olkraft Record
#1179) .. Sellenger’s Round has been a traditional favorite
at May Day ceremonies since the thirtccnth century. If
time permits, this entire dance (found on Folkraft Record
#1174) may be used instead of the part used here.

The Maypole

For those who wish to build their own Maypole, the
standard dimensions are: nine to thirteen feet in height;
three inches square or three inches in diameter; secured
firmly in a solid stand. The pole may have one fixed ring
on tap with ribbons tied in pairs or two rings on top, the
lower one fixed and the Upper one free to revolve. The
boys’ ribbons are attached to the upper ring, their partners’

 

MISS KULBITSKY is an assistant professor in the department
of physical education, Hunter College, New York City. Our
readers will remember the excellent demonstration and
workshop on graded dances for recreation leaders she pre-

sented at the International Recreation Congress in Phila-
delphia last year, in cooperation with Frank Kaltntan. of

Folhraft Records.
140

 

The
Maypole

Dance

Springtime’s

“Spectacular”

Olga Kulbitsky

ribbons tied in the proper place on the lower ring.

Ribbons should be approximately three feet longer than
the pole, with a loop at the end for hand to slip through.
Longer ribbons allow for free dancing but require more
skill in managing. Strips should be one - and - a - quarter
inches wide if wool is used, wider strips are necessary if
cotton is used because it shrivels. To secure the ribbons in
plaee on the ground, clotheSpins are practical. Two colors
may be used alternately in pairs. Boys may have white
ribbons and their partners colored ones or boys’ ribbons
may be a darker shade than their partners.

THE MAYPOLE DANCE

RECORD: Maypole Dance (Folkraft #1178).

FORMATION: A eolumn of couples, numbered off in two. Any
number of couples divisible by four may participate. Twelve
COUples is the recommended number for most groups. Col-
umn may be divided into two sections for entrance from op-
posite sides.
STARTING POSITION: Girl on partner’s right, inside hands
joined.
Entrance
Measures: 1-32— Couples enter from same side, or in two
eolumns from opposite sides, and eneirclc pole, skipping
or running counterclockwise. 0n reaching their place, eou-
ples continue to skip or run in place, or join both hands
with partner and swing clockwise, ending with a bow or
curtscy.
Sellenger's Round
RECORD: Selienger’s Round (Folkraft #1174).
FORMATION: All join hands in a single circle, facing center.
with girl on partner’s right, left foot free.
MUSIC A: Measures: 1-4—Circle left with eight slides sidc-
ward. 5-8—Circle right to place with eight slides.
Chorus
MUSIC B: Measures: 1-2—Two balance steps forward
(right, left) toward center. 3-4—four running steps back-

I

\'
Recamnox ‘

Every Spring the NRA Pro-

gram Department receives re-
quests for a Maypole Dance.
Miss Olga Knlbitsky, a spe—
cialist in folk dancing, has
prepared this material, and
Folkrcift Record #1178,
Maypole Dance, has been
made specifically for the rou-
tine Miss Knlbitshy designed.
Index this article for future
use in your spring festivals!

ward, starting with right foot; finishing facing partner.
5-8—partners balance right, left) then turn singly; part-
ners facing, balance to the right and to the left, then each
turns once clockwise, in place with four running steps; all
finish facing center. 9-16—repeat pattern of measures 1-8,
ending with a bow or curtsey.

Boys Present Ribbons
Measures: 1-4—Boys walk forward, kneel on one knee, and
unfasten two ribbons (pegs used to secure ribbons should
then be tossed close to pole, at a safe distance, away from
the dancing area). 5-8—boys return with one ribbon in
each hand and present ribbon to partner, girls curtsey as
they receive their ribbons. (The distance from the circle to
the ribbons will determine the number of steps and whether
two or four steps are taken to a measure.)

Simple Weaving

WIND: Face partner. Girls hold loop of ribbon in left hand,
boys hold 100p in right. Use free hand to assist in managing
ribbon by slipping free hand as high up the ribbon as con-
venient. Measures: 1-4«——Girls weave under boys’ ribbons,
progressing one place clockwise with eight skips, moving out
to new position in circle, greeting new partner with a curtsey.
5-3—Boys weave under girls’ ribbons, progressing one place
counterclockwise, with eight skips, moving out to new posi-
tion in circle, bowing to new partner. 1-32—Entire pattern
of measures 1-8 done four times, boys ending the “wind.”
UNWIND: Face in opposite direction and transfer ribbon
to other hand. Measures: 1-32—~—Boys start the “unwind.”
Repeat the “simple weaving” pattern, unwinding the rib-
bons, ending with a bow or curtsey to partner when girls
complete the “unwind,” returning to place. (Older groups,
or experienced Maypole dancers, may prefer to make twice
the number of changes, progressing to each new place with
only four skips. This may be more spectacular but it does
not allow for the friendly salutations possible with the eight
count changes.)
CIRCLING: All slip right hands through loop in ribbon and

APRIL 1957

join hands in a single circle, facing center, left foot free.
Measures: 1-8—Circle left with sixteen slidcs sideward.
9-16—Circle right to place with sixteen slides.

Double Weaving

WIND: Number One couples turn to face Numbcr Two
couples, boys in inner circle, nearest pole. Boys hold both
ribbons in hand nearest pole and link other arm ,with part-
ner, or each holds own ribbon in hand nearest pole and

' joins other hand with partner. Measures: 1-4—“Ones”

dance four slides in, toward pole, weaving under “Twos’ ”
ribbons; then four slides out to circle, progressing one place
clockwise. 5-8-——“Twos” dance four slides in, toward pole,
weaving under “Ones’ ” ribbons; then four slides out to
circle, progressing one place counterclockwise. 1-32—En-
tire pattern of measures 1-8 done four times, one couple
active at a time, “Twos” ending the “wind.”

UNWIND: All face in opposite direction, boys remaining in
inner circle, nearest pole, 'and transfer ribbons to other
hand. Measures: 1-32—“Twos” start the unwind. Repeat
the “double weaving” pattern, unwinding the ribbons, end-
ing with a boy or curtsey to opposite couple when “Ones”-
complete the “unwind,” returning to place.

Barber’s Pole

WIND: Partners face girls in inner circle, facing clockwise;
boys in outer circle, facing counterclockwise. All hold rib-
bon in hand nearest the pole. Measures: 1-8-——Circle in
opposite directions with sixteen skips, winding ribbons
around the pole. The girls’ ribbons will twist around the
pole while the boys’ ribbons will rotate the revolving top or
wind above the ribbons of the inner circle.

UNWIND: All face about and transfer ribbon to other hand.
Measures; 1-8—Reverse direction, circling in opposite
directions with sixteen skips, unwinding the ribbons and
returning to place.

Single \Veaving and Finale

SINGLE WEAVING: Partners face. All hold ribbons in right
hands. Measures: 1-64—A11 weave simultaneously, as in
“Grand Chain” or “Grand Right and Left” without oining
hands, passing partner on right, next one on left, and con-
tinue to weave around circle, girls skipping clockwise, start-
ing to weave “over and under,” while boys skip counter-
clockwise, weaving “under and over.”

Activities of the program will determine the finale and
exit of the Maypole Dance. If the program is to continue
around the decorated pole, plait as long as possible, then
release ribbons and end dance in a single circle with bow
or curtsey to partner.

If an exit is necessary, plait as long as desired, allowing
enough music for participants to leave dancing area.

Exit

The dancers may start the exit figure on signal from a
leader, or after plaiting for a specified number of measures,
or after partners have met a specified number of times.

The exit may be a gay, informal one, with everyone
skipping off in all directions, or a repetition of the entrance,
skipping off in the same order in one or two columns or
a “serpentine,” with one person leading the group with all
hands joined in a single line. I

141

 

Try a

 

Playground Songaree

We all know the value of music in our programs, but we
also know how difficult it is to do much with it on a play-
ground, exeept in those few areas where the leader has real
musical talent. Charleston, West Virginia, had a good ex-
perience last summer which it is pleased to pass on.

For several years we have encouraged each playground
to have its own playground song. As is usually the case,
'some had one and some did not. Generally the words were
original, the tune a p0pular one. Invariably the best play-
grounds, those with the most Spirit, had a song and used it.

During the past summer, toward the end of the season, a
supervisor suggested we hold a city-wide event with each
playground presenting its own song. Something we should
always encourage, community singing, could also be on the
program. The name “Songaree” was a natural.

The results were excellent. Any playground without a
song got one. Playground spirit climbed. Rules were dis-
tributed, suggesting that the chorus from each area wear
some distinctive attirc, such as a sash, hat, bow-tie, or
similar identification.

Thcsc following two songs are typical:

TUN E : Memories

Tiskelwah, Tiskelwah, the place we love to play,

Children come to have some fun and stay the livelong day:
Run and swing, dance and sing, grownups and the small,
We play fair and square, out in the fresh air,

At our wonderful Tiskelwah.

TUNE: April Showers

Though summer showers may make us blue.
We always manage to see them through,

And when the sun shines, you'll see us smile
Because we know that we'll be having fun

In just a little while,

\Ve play such good games all through the day,
We try to be sports in all our play,

50 if you want to see the playspot

Where joy and fun abound

Come up and visit Chandler‘s Drive Playground.

A good master of ceremonies and song leader guaranteed
a smooth performance when the night of the “Songaree”
arrived. EVerybody had a good time because everybody
participated. There was no competition and no awards.

A recreation department can get good publicity from such
an event-sit catches the public fancy. Such was the case
with us; weeks later people were still commenting on it.

Our hope is that we can build the “Songaree” into an all-
age community aflair. Singing is good for the soul and
singing together builds good playground and community

14-53

NEW IDEA

  
  
  
  
 
   
    
 
  
 
   
   
  
    
  
   
  
  

    

(—5Pruc4'ron
STICKS

CONSTRUCTION
RAPE.“

spirit.——BOB KRESGE, superintendent, Parks and Recreation
Commission, Charleston, West V irginia.

A Playground Indian Village

The recreation department in Santa Rosa, California, ha
come up with a new wrinkle in the way of a successful

('3
"I
a:
:1"

project using all scrap or inexpensive materials: a minimm
lndian villagc complete with tepees, drums. stretched skins
council fire, and, of course, lndians.

The whole village is mounted on a large piece of plywom
as a permanent fixture. The tepees are made of construc
tion paper, painted with water colors. Tcnt poles are simpl.
applicator sticks (the type used in a first-aid kitl glued t:
the inside of the tepee———very authcntic looking.

The drums are constructed from empty spools, scr
leather, and discarded yarn. The stretched skins are maul
of scrap lcather cut to resemble animal skins. These ar
tied to a strctching framc made of applicator sticks. Th
council lire consists of twigs glued together with a glowin
flame of red crepe paper. Small stoncs make the counei
ring.

lndians are made by folding cloth scraps and eemcntin
the folds together. A small piece of cork is added for a heat
and braided yarn for hair. Small pieces of feathers from
broken arrows serve as an Indian headdress. All the iten
except the Indians and drmns are ccmentcd to a base, form
ing a permanent campsite for our tribe. ln making the has
a board is coated with rubber cement and then sprinkle:
with sand or gravel. The sand can be sprayed with gre
paint to add a little color to the sceiic. The children in Sant
liosa use the lndian Village to play cowboys and lndians t
thcir hcarts’ content. I

RECREATIO.

 

 

Betty Yurina Kent

0% ASSEMBLED group stirred rest-

lessly in the muggy warmth of
early July. We were vacation play-
ground leaders from one district of the
New York City Board of Education’s
summer vacation playground schedule.
This preliminary conference was be-
ing held to orient the staff. Our super-
visor soon introduced the crucial point
of the orientation—administration had
decided on a new policy for the sum-
mer program. As part of an experi-
ment in recreation methodology, our

district would participate in a “group-
centered” project. It was the first of

many times that the phrase “group-
centered” fell on our ears.

At the season’s end, we evaluated our
accomplishments; we want to
share with those of you in recreation

and

our program notes on a summer ex-
periment:

We found that the basic difference
between a group-centered program and
an activity-centered program was the
unit of program organization; all other
differences evolved from this initial
fact. In a group-centered program you
consider the “girls eight-to-ten.” In
an activity pr0gram you are concerned
with “arts and crafts.” Our center had
until this summer, operated an activity
program; we were about to expcri-
1nent.

Our first problem was reorientation
of both staff and participants. The

MRS. KEAT, now a resident of Balti-
more, has been active in recreation
with the New York City Department of
Parks and Board of Education, and has
also observed recreation and social

education in India ( see RECREATION,
October 1956, page 373 ).

APRIL 1957

Notes on a

Samaria 

This simple, factual statement of the problems of a playground staff in using a
new mcthodblogy is very thought provoking. W e believe you will had it stimu-
lating. It is a type of program that has been generally accepted in many camps
and day camps. Playgrounds o§er a more complex set-up because there is no
“captive audience.” This article is a factual report of an experiment in a group-
centered, rather than activity-centered, program on a New York City playground.
Have you tried it? Did it work? We’d like your comments.

staff had to re-examine the old activity
program, analyze its recreation fea-
tures and see how these parts fitted into
the new method—whether there were
any to be discarded. How will arts and
crafts appear in the new arrangement?
Largely as a responsibility of the in-
dividual group leader, we found. Does
the dance festival, an established tradi-
tion of summer program, fit into the
new plan? Shall we hold on to it? Can
it be shelved this year? How do you
readjust children to the fact that they
now “belong” with a specific leader and
group and can’t go to Mr.—— for arts
and crafts now, just because they feel
like it. These were among the many
early problems we had to solve.

Later problems were more complex,
and, because of their complexity, have
not all been resolved. GrOUp-centered
activity necessitates a more personal
relationship bctween group and leader
than exists under an activity-centered
program. The leader must know his
group members intimately so the sum-
mer can be fully planned and so each
day’s “decision-making” and fulfilling
can be as valuable as possible to the
whole summer. This kind of personal
knowledge is not available to the rec-
reation leader hecause there are no
files of information except those which
cxperience yields. The summer season
is short. The staff is a summer staff
with no prior association with the
children. The leader’s ability to co-
ordinatc recreation with the known
needs of the individual group membcrs
is therefore greatly handicapped.

As knowledge of the group members
increased, however, our leaders soon
found themselves faced with new de-
mands. No longer activity Spccialists,

they had to equip themselves with
versatility in many fields, and be ready,
willing and ahle to acquire new skills
as need for them arose through the ex-
pressed desires of the group. Many re-
creation leaders can handle basketry
as an activity. Not nearly as many are
familiar with the sewing machine. Our
youngsters have not handled reed this
summer; they showed no interest and
could not be motivated. On the other
hand, not a scrap of percale hides in
the supply bin. If the leader had been
“on the spot,” willingness to learn new
skills quickly would have been of top
priority. However, not only versatility
in one field of activities is important,
but also (lance leadership, swim leader-
ship, outdoor and indoor games. In
short, since the grOUp-centered pro-
gram is based on the relationship be-
tween one group and one leader, all day
long, every day, the leader muSt be able
to share all the interests of the group
or to acquire facility, with a priority
on speed.

Associated with increased leadership
versatility, but a program in itself, is
composition of a group. What kind of
group do you want and need—and
why? Other considerations become im-
portant when these questions are raised.
How many group members constitute
an ideal group? On the other hand,
how many children must the center
serve and with how many staff mem-
bers? What criteria do you use in
forming groups?

We formed four groups, based on
age and sex. They were not ideal con-
siderations, we found out. Some of the
groups were overlarge in terms of the
twelve-to-twenty “ideal.” Others did
not sharc the same interests, an a priori

143

 

assumption. However, in terms of other
considerations—recreation needs of the
community which we were to serve—-
we felt these decisions to be best.

A crucial question within a function-
ing group was the integration of the
needs of the “special individual.” We
did not want the below-norm or superior
child to suffer by the “average,” but
the resolution of these special needs
with those of a large and demanding
group is not simple. Sandra for her
age and her group had an extraordinary
gift and interest in interpretive dance.
Her group preferred simple folk dance.
When should Sandra be allowed to in-
fluence group choice and to what ex-
tent? How should her special gift be
preserved and developed? Jean is slow
and below normal in intellect. How
does the activity prevent her from feel-
ing frustrated and discouraged in a
group enterprise, and having “fun”?

° PLAYG o
Jamisonmurmt't':

89 sure to chock the many exclusive features at

this rugged I‘ne. Wr'te for free cotaiug of ‘254
items.

Jamison Manufacturing Co.

8781 South Mattier Street
[.05 Angels: 3, Caiiiarnia

Sm: -
l‘L‘i

|||i||||l|l|||||l||||l||lli|||l|Illll||||i|||l||||||||||||l||||l|l||||||l|Illll|||||l||Iilllllllll|||ll|||ll|lllillllillllllilllllilll

JUNE
18
National Recreation Month

tllllllllllilllllll|||ll|ll|||||l||||||||||l|ll||ll||||l|l|||||l|||ll|Illllllillllillllllllllliliilllllllilllllllllllllllllllllilllllll

 

0n the group side, should the group
“wait” for Jean, how long and how
often? What is the recreation leader’s
role in assisting and guiding the group
in its decisions on these and like mat-
ters? How are these matters relevant
to the essential element of recreation——
voluntary participation? How can the
recreation leader in this 'situation re-
concile the divergent levels of group
needs, individual growth capacity, and
total recreation? We must remember
that the recreation leader is not in a
classroom situation with its tendency
to compulsive discipline.

These have been among the problems
either directly caused by a change in
the unit of program organization or
indirectly influencing the recreation
situation. The attempt to solve them
undoubtedly resulted in increased ver-
satility and adaptability of our recrea-
tion leaders.

Wear Your Golden Age Ciub Pin With
Pride Wherever You May Ga

Designed by representatives
of over 100 Golden Age clubs
and used nationally.

Gold colored metal with
evergreen tree in jewelers'
" enamel. Symbolic of longlife,

EXACT 5'15 strength and perseverance.
The words LOVE, PLAY, LEARN, SERVE
(greatest values of club membership) en-
ameled in black. The border is a laurel
wreath for honor. Safety catch.

Available Only to Authentic Clubs.
50: each, minimum order 10 pins.

James Spencer & (o. 22 N. 61h Street

 

Philadelphia 6. Pa.

 

Superior tablcs can be stored compactly, can bc
opencd [or play in a jiffy . . . even rollcd

away on whccls by a youngster. Sturdy, rigid
Superior MTIOOO Tablc has cdgc-protecting
METAL FRAME AND TUBULAR STEEL
LEGS, HEAVY DOUBLE HARDWARE

ON LEGS. Thousands ust by playgrounds,

camps, schools, military installations . . .

Q;
NEH”
Opuonal
Feature!

Roll-away casters
make it easy to
clear your floors.

wherever a heavy duty table is nccded.

POPULARLY PRICED! APPROVED BY US'I'I‘A.

Write for literature showing complete line
of institutional table tennis tables.

 INDUSTRIES CORPORATION

665 Barry Street. New York 69. N .V.

144

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

We have found it necessary to re-
evaluate the essential assets and liabili-
ties of both the activity-centered pro-
gram and the group-centered program
as media for effective community rec-
We hOpe the solutions we
tried resulted in growth of the members
of the group. We can’t be sure it did;
or, if it did, how much growth and
what kind of growth. There are as yet
no accurate measurements of the con-

reation.

tribution which recreation techniques
effect on the physical, mental and emo-
tional growth of the child. Neither are
there any criteria by which we can
discover how well the techniques of
recreation coordinate and COOperate
with those of group method. So, as a
result, we can present no conclusions
-——-just more problems with which the
profession of recreation inust soon con-
tend and resolve——with these program
notes on a summer experiment. I

BASKElBMl
SlEEl. CHAIN
HHS

3 Year: Guarantee!
outdoors or indoor:

Also featuring Iayfra': custom built

v ALUMINUM MUlTl-PURPOSE srmoanos
v SHUFFLEBOARD srrs WITH
"nuaarn cusmauro" DISCS
v PADDLE TETHERBALL srrs

' Sand for Free Catalog 0

JAYFRO ATHLETIC SUPPLY CO.
Dept. R, Box 1065, NEW LONDON, CONN.

 
    
   
          

  

FOL DING
BANQUET

TABLES

 
  

It you are on the
Board of your
Church. Latino.
Club. Stilt-oi. etc..
you will he inter-
ested in this nud-
I'nl Folding linu-
quct Tobie.

 
        
       

Completely tin-
inhed tops. re
alstuut to most
serving hazards
l'sed with or with-
out tnbie cloths.

       
     
   
      

ax. ,
Write for Table and ”
Trunk Catalog and special

price discount: to institutions
and organizations.

Monroe Co.. ill Church 51.. Colfax. la.

 
    
 

      
 

.g‘ aw _— J
B "In.

RECREATION

A Dump and a Dollar . . u. . . .

A search for the right summer project.

ASTORY BY Maurice Maeterlinck tells of two young chil-
dren who went all Over the world looking for the blue-
bird of happiness. They searched everywhere, but could not
find it. Finally, discouraged, they came back home, and 10,
there perched in a tree in their own backyard was the blue-
bird. This same experience happened to us in Dayton, Ohio.
Last spring, when we were planning our summer recre-
ation program, and were debating what should be the grand
finale Of the season, we considered all the usual activities:
pageants, tableaux, circuses, variety shows. In past years
we had done many Of the standard things, such as fairy tales,
the discovery of America, colonial times, pioneer days, and
so forth. Two years ago we produced a sesquicentennial
pageant, celebrating Ohio’s 150th anniversary, which, of
course, was also done by many other communities at the
same time.

Now we wanted to do something different, and we started
searching—if only we could find an interesting theme,
something either off the beaten track, or unique to our com-
munity. Unique to our community, or—right in our own
backyard. Bomberger Park—that was it!

‘ This community center, in continuous Operation since
1907, has been generally recognized as the oldest public rec-
reation facility in Ohio. Last year the old building, which
had long outlived its usefulness, was torn down, to be re-
placed by a modern recreation structure. Why not take the
story Of recreation in Dayton, as represented by Bomberger
Park, and make it the theme Of the summer grand finale?

Someone recalled that our first superintendent of parks,
William Madden, had played a major role in the develOp-
ment of Dayton’s parks and playgrounds in the early years
of this century. Bill Madden originally traveled from one
park to another on a bicycle. He once said, “Give me a
dump and a dollar, and I’ll,build you a park.” Many of us
who remembered hin1 also remembered what he had said.

SO we took the character Of Bill Madden and the story of
recreation in Dayton as it had unfolded and develOped at
Bomberger Park as the theme Of our big playground event.

We called it “Playground Frolics: The Story Of a Dump
and a Dollar.”

There were forty-five playgrounds in Operation, and every
one Of them was represented in one way or other in the
production. Over five hundred children participated.

The story Opened with Bill Madden riding on stage on his
I bicycle. The scene was a dump, with ragged children play-
I ing desultorily with tin cans, sticks, and stones. The story

I
l MR. SOLOMON is supervisor of special activities for the Bu-

i reau of Recreation in Dayton, Ohio.

 

APRIL 1957

Michael Solomon

line, throughout the show, was developed by a narrator.
Accompanied by mood music, the narrator began:

“This is a story Of ambition and foresight; the story of
a man, a dream, and a city. It is a story of Bill Madden. . . .
He looked about him and saw the children Of Dayton. He
saw them playing in alleys and gravel pits, in city streets and
empty lots, abandoned buildings and dumps. He looked
about him and sighed. . . . This, then, is the story Of Bill
Madden’s dream, out Of which grew the city’s parks and
playgrounds. . . .”

The setting then changed tO Bomberger Park, where chil-
dren, in costumes Of the Early Twenties, were rolling hoops,
playing volleyball, marbles and other games. The story
line then developed one scene or sketch after another, in-
cluding a choral group, fashion show, movie flickers, square
dancing, “Casey at the Bat,” and the grand finale, “Play-
grounds On Parade.” In the final scene, with more than five
hundred children and their directors massed on stage, Bill
Madden again appeared, pushing his bicycle, as the narrator
said:

“And these are the children of a dream come true. Dreams
like that of Bill Madden aren’t fulfilled by wishing. TO bring
them tO life takes years Of work—and imagination. Count-
less others have contributed to this dream and its fulfillment.
It continues, and will continue, for generations tO come. We
thank all who have helped Dayton’s park and recreation pro-
gram, and we hope never to forget Bill Madden, who planted
the first seed—who one day long ago saw children playing
in an empty lot and spoke the words Of his dream: “Give me
a dump and a dollar, and I’ll build you a park.”

The production was put on at our Island Park bandshell,
before an audience Of twenty-five hundred. Thirty-three of
our forty-five playgrounds had children in special parts; all
forty-five appeared in the final scene. Each playground rep-
resented, with signs and costumes, a different activity: soft-
ball, tennis, storytelling, crafts, drama, dancing, and_sO on.

One result we especially liked was the part played by our
leaders. In addition to organizing and rehearsing the vari-
ous scenes on their playground, helping with makeup, stage
crews, and general organization, a number of them got right
in with the children tO play various roles in the production.
This helped to hold the more difficult scenes together.

, The most delightful sketches of the entire production were
of the oldtime flicker movies——one Of the popular features
in Bomberger’s weekly program Of long ago.

Not the least remarkable thing about this most successful
show was that it was directed by a freshman student from
the University of Dayton, Shirley Bernier, assisted by Jerry
Martin, another UD student whose sure sense of theatre
comedy insured the success of the various acts. I

145

 

§

Story Telling on the Playground . . .

 

Gladys Conklin

“Silting in line shade of a tree is pleasant.” Storylclling in Richmond, Virginia.

STORYTELLING on the playground re-
quires a few special techniques be-
cause of the outdoor location with its
uncontrolled surroundings. The play-
ground storyteller is a close kin of the
original folk storyteller who gathered a
crowd around him at crossroads be-
cause he had an urge to share a tale
that had moved him deeply. A success-
ful storyteller chooses a story hc feels
will be fun to share with his audience.

The goal of the storyteller is to
arouse emotions, such as wondcr, laugh-
ter, joy, amazement, or surprisc. A good
_ story also captures the imagination. To
do these things, it must havc a direct or
interesting beginning, a bit of suspense,
a climax and a happy or hilarjous end-
ing. A child puts himself in the hero’s
place, and he needs a feeling of accom-
plishmcnt or satisfaction when the story
has ended.

For all storytelling, folk tales are by
far the easiest to learn and tell. The
folk tale is simple and strong and has
a universal appeal. There are as many
kinds of folk tales as therc arc story-
tellers, and the teller can choose the
type that appeals to him. A story should
be told as though the teller saw or ex-
perienced the event himself. If he tclls

MRS. CONKLIN is storyteller and chil-
dren’s librarian at the Hayward City

Library, Hayward, California.
146

it with zest and thoroughly enjoys the
story, the audience will enjoy it. Story-
telling is more than sharing a story, it
is also a sharing of heart and spirit.

In telling a story, a low voice is pleas-
ing but on the playground one needs
volume. Even in a quiet corner, the
voice should hc loudcr at thc start and
drop as the children become interested;
and it should vary with the story’s
tempo. Some of the hero tales march
rapidly from bcginning to end; others
go slowly, cven clumsily, in keeping
with their chief characters. The tcller
must learn to recognize the value of a
pause, the nced for hesitation, that hold-
ing of suspcnsc that quickcns thc pulse
of the listener.

For storytelling, a shady nook or
sheltered corner of the playground is
ideal. Sitting in the shade of a tree is
pleasant, but many playgrounds havc
neithcr shady nooks nor leafy trccs. lt
may be necessary to gather the childrcn
around you out in the opcn. In this
case, be sure they sit with their backs to
the sun. Always see that your audience
is comfortablc; and for your own com-
fort, learn to separate noisy twosomcs.

You may stand or sit during the tcll-
ing, but he whcre you can casily watch
the faces of all the children. Eye con-
tact hetwcen tcller and audience is im-
portant. Also, watching changing cx-
pressions on the children’s faccs is a

rewarding pleasure for the teller.

The ideal time of day for playground
storytelling is mid-afternoon—about
three o’clock. The children are begin-
ning to get tired, but it is too early to go
home. They are ready for a rest period
and will welcome the Opportunity to
settle down and listen to “Once there
was a king who had seven sons. . . .”
or almost any story that starts with

“Once upon a time. . . .”

A Few Aids for the Storyteller

Look for these in your public library:

The Five Chinese Brothers, Claire H.
Bishop (Coward); Three Golden 0r-
anges and Other Spanish F all: Tales, R.
S. Bogge and M. C. Davis (Longmans) :
Best Stories to Tell to Children, Sara
Cone Bryant (Houghton); The Shoe-
maker’s Apron, l’arker Fillmore (liar-
court); Household Stories, Grimm
Brothers (Macmillan); A Wonder
Book, Nathanicl Hawthorne (many edi-
tions); English Fairy Tales, Joseph
Jacobs (Putnam); Blue Fairy Book.
Andrew Lang (Longlnans); The Way
of the Storyteller, Ruth Sawyer (Vik-
ing); East 0’ the Sun and West 0’ the
Moon, Cudron Thornc-Thomscn (Row.
Peterson) ; Twenty-F our Unusual Stor-
ies, Anna Cogswell Tyler (Harcourt):
Tales of Laughter, Kate Douglas Wig-
gin and Nora Archibald Smith (Double-
day). I

RECREATION

l

MR. CHRISTOPHER Charlemagne
Cheeselnore was six years old.
He was in a hurry. Mr. Christopher
Charlemagne Cheesemore was' always
in a hurry. If he went upstairs, he ran.
If he came downstairs, he ran. Mr.
Christopher Charlemagne Cheesemore
hurried all of the time.

Christopher’s mother would say.
“Christopher Charlemagne Cheese-
more, you hurry too much.” But Chris-
topher would only laugh and think that
his mother was very silly. Christopher
Charlamagne Cheesemore often went to
the store for his mother and she always
said, “Christopher, don’t run so hard.
Stop and watch the traffic and be sure

there are no cars coming.”

Christopher would say, “Surely,
Mother,” and then he would scurry
away.

Now, one day, as was his custom, Mr.
Christopher went scampering off to the
store for his mother.

When Mr. Christopher Cheesemore
reached Main Street, did he look north?

No! He did not.

Did he look south?

 
 
 
   
     
    
 
 
 
 
   
 

  

This little story, written by a
mother, was designed to be read
aloud with dramatic touches in
voice inflection, and facial expres-
sion. It would lend itself beauti-
fully to response-participation on
the part of the youngsters. Can’t
you hear them call out, “No, Dr.
Sprout.”? Or wouldn’t it be fun
for the youngsters to pantomime
it, or use it as a puppet show?

No!

He did not.
Did he look east?
No! He did not.
Did he look west?

No! He did not.

Mr. Christopher Charlemagne Cheese-
more was in such a hurry that he didn’t
look where he was going, and he ran
right across Main Street.

Reprinted with permission from Safety
Education, November 1956. MRS.
NORRIS is a resident of-Chatham, New
Jersey.

APRIL 1957

Christopher

Cheesemore

Ruth H. Norris

Cw

A Story

All of a sudden, scurrying Mr. Chris-
topher Charlemagne Cheesemore heard
Screech, Screech, Screech!

And there lay Mr. Christopher Char-
lemagne Cheesemore!

Poor old Mr. Croggins, the milkman,
was out of his car in a hurry.

Dear Mrs. Nicodemus excitedly called
to Tommy Squire, the patrolman, who
told Mr. Quiggs, the groceryman, who
called Dr. Sprout, who told his nurse to
follow him. And there around Christo-
pher Charlemagne Cheesemore were
Mr. Croggins, Mrs. Nicodemus, Tommy
Squire, Mr. Quiggs, Dr. Sprout and his
nurse.

Mr. Christopher Charlemagnc Cheese-
more opened one eye.

Mr. Christopher Charlemagne Chcesee
more opened the other eye.

He could see!

Mr. Christopher Charlemagne Cheese-
more raised one leg.

Mr. Christopher Charlemagne Cheese-
more raised the other leg.

He could move his legs!

Mr. Christopher Charlemagne Cheese-
more moved one arm.

Mr. Christopher Charlemagne Cheese-
more moved the other arm.

He could move his arms!

Mr. Christopher Charlemagne Cheese-
more turned his head right.

Mr. Christopher Charlemagne Cheese-
more turned his head left.

Mr. Christopher Charlemagne Cheese-
more raised his head.

His head would turn!

Kindly Dr. Sprout_said, “Mr. Christo-

pher Charlemagne Cheesemore, did you
look east?

“No, Dr. Sprout.”

“Mr. C h r is to p h e r Charlemagne
Cheesemore, did you look west?”

“No, Dr. Sprout.”

“Mr. C h r i s t o p h e r Charlemagne
Cheesemore, did you look north?”

“No, Dr. Sprout.”

“Mr. C h r i s t o p h e r Charlemagne
Cheesemore, did you look south?”

“No, Dr. Sprout.”

“Well, Mr. Cheesemore, will you look
east the next time? ”

“Yes, Dr. Sprout.”

“Will you look west next time?”

“Yes, Dr. Sprout.”

“Will you look north and south?”

“Oh yes, Dr. Sprout. Yes, I will.”

“You are a very lucky boy,” said Mr.
Croggins, the milkman.

“You are a very lucky boy,” said Mrs.
Nicodemus.

“You are a very lucky boy,” said
young Tommy Squire, the patrolman.

“You are a very lucky boy,” said Mr.
Quiggs, the groceryman.

“You are a very lucky boy.” said Dr.
Sprout’s nurse.

“Now,” said Dr. Sprout, “get up, and
I will take you home, but stop hurrying
all the time. Don’t ever run across a
street, never, never, never, and always
look before you cross. Look east; look
west; loo‘k north; look south—and then
walk across.”

“Yes sir, Dr. Sprout. Yes sir, forever
and ever,” said Mr. Christopher Charle-
magne Cheesemore. I

147

 

Lively Ideas
for the

Summer Play

Ways to add color and excitement to
your playground dramatic program.

Pamela Prince Walker

FIRST, choose your play for simplicity. The children have
joined your dramatic group with visions of gay re-
hearsals and laughter. They did not count on long hours
of homework or forgoing their favorite evening television
shows. Besides, it is summertime, carefree time! A panto-
mime, read by a talented teen-ager while the children act,
is best. On the Fourth of July, Paul Revere’s Ride, with
little boys in red coats with toy drums staging a lively
battle with the Yankees, is an excellent choice. Later in the
summer, try one of the A. A. Milne poems from When We
Were Very Young. “The King’s Breakfast” and “The Four
Friends” are whimsical narrative poems from this selection.
For young children, The Gingerbread Boy, The Three
Bears and The Little Red Hen are all simple enough. Boys
will like Three Goats Gru§ and The Wolf and the Seven
Coats; and Snow White, Rampelstilzhin and Sleeping
Beauty are old favorites. Mother Goose rhymes are fun,
and a good start. For a really breathless final production,
The Emperor’s New Clothes and The Pied Piper can be as
simple or as elaborate as needed.

Pantomime collections from play publishers sometimes
offer unique ideas, or perhaps someone you know with a
talent for writing could compose a humorous narrative from
an old fairy tale:

“There once was a lass named Snow Whitey,
Who went all about in her nightie. . . .”
(Snow White appears in a nightgown, holding a candle.)
or
“There once was a maiden named Cindy,
Who cut-rug to a very cool Lindy. . . .”

(Cinderella enters, jitterbugging.)

Folk tales, folk songs, ballads and narrative poems are
all possible sources for pantomimes. Songs and poems are
simplest because they can be used “as is”; stories may have
to be cut and simplified.

Now that you have your pantomime and are rehearsing
each day (ten forty-five minute rehearsals should easily suf-
flee—if not, you have chosen something too difficult), try
this for an original advertising stunt:

A few days before your production, plan to have some of
your cast in costume drawn onto the playground in a wagon

MRS. WALKER, a specialist in creative dramatics, is a member
of the recreation department in Charlottesville, Virginia.

148

or wheelbarrow, announcing the play over a megaphone as '
they come. Decorate the vehicle with bright crepe paper
streamers and let the rest of the east (also in costume) fol-
low behind, ringing bells and tooting trumpets. Stage their
entrance at your busiest time during the day, and they will I
cause quite a sensation. From the wheelbarrow they might
sell tickets for a pebble or a pin. i I

To add spice to rehearsal days how about staging a big
scavenger hunt to collect the necessary properties for the
play? While the children are enjoying all the fun of such
an event, you are collecting your properties without effort,
and advertising the production to homes nearby. l

Let the excitement flow right into your arts and crafts
classes. The craft leader is always on the lookout for new
ideas, and when the children have been. weaving baskets-I
and belts for several weeks it will be a welcome change to
make paper hats, wands or crowns. Some may prefer to
paint big, splashy posters to hang about the playground.

When rehearsals hit that mid-way lull, pep them up with]
a nature hike into the woods-to find sticks for wands or
leafy boughs for stage decorations. Each child can bring
his own box supper, and after the picnic you can suggest a I
quick rehearsal before you start home. Keep all your re-
hearsals short, snappy and full of fun.

Now comes the day of the play. Anticipation hangs in the
air. The hillside, tennis court or other area is rapidly turn-
ing into a glamorous stage with the help of crepe paper and
a pair of scissors. Children are rushing to you for last-minute
instructions about costumes. The little boy who was to play

   
   
 
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
   
  
  

Editor's Note: The NRA Program Depaitment reports
it has a few extra copies of several pantomimes and plays
that can be used with playground youngsters, which ap-
peared in back issues of Recreation Program Aids. Avail-
able: ”The Vanity of the Rat" (pantomimel; “The Princess
in the Tower" (narrative plus choral reading]; “Down from
a Cloud" (pantomime); “The Boy Who Stayed Up Late"
(playl. Each $.25—first come, first served!

the leading role has just informed you that he is going to
the beach with his family, and you hurriedly prepare an-
other child for the part. This might have meant cancelling
the play if you had chosen a performance with lines, and you
are more than relieved that you decided upon a pantomime.

In the buzz of excitement it will be hard to find time to
make refreshments for a party after the play. Ask one of
the mothers to help. Perhaps she will agree to give a few
of the girls a baking lesson right in her kitchen. This i._
much more fun than having refreshments supplied.

Curtain time! You finally sit back and relax. As you
watch the beaming faces about you, you begin to think about
the future. It seems too bad to let the enthusiasm you on-
gendered during the last two weeks simply fade away. Wh
not plan a summer repertory theater? A pantomime once
every two weeks should be easy—not like a series of play.
with lines. \Vhy not? As the curtains open and you see th
happy pride and assurance upon the faces of your cast. your
mind is made up. Drama does belong on the play-
ground! Simplified, of course, but'with the same old foot-
light magic of make-believe. I

RECREATION

09990000¢00@@0WOWMWMWMWWMWQMQQ'QQMQQMQQMQQWQQQQW

Evaluation in Recreation-Playgrounds

WHEN THE SUMMER playground season draws to a close, it
is evaluation time. As a part of the evaluation process,

many directors and/or administrators have found it valu-

able to have the play leaders appraise the summer’s results.

The following form, made up for this purpose by the Kansas

Recreation Association, was published in the August 1956

issue of its bi-monthly Newsletter, and is reprinted here by

permission. It is a composite list of items covered in forms

received from Topeka, Emporia and Pittsburg.

I. Training and supervision:

0 Do you feel that the pre-season training was worthwhile?

If not, what areas would you like to see improved?

0 Were staff meetings helpful? Suggestions for additional

items to be covered in staff meetings.

0 Were supervisory Visits helpful?

0 How can the recreation department be of more assistance

to you in the planning and execution of your program?

II. Location:

0 Was the playground located correctly in this area for
maximum use?

0 Is there a real need for a playground in this neighbor-
hood?

0 How could the enrollment be increased?

9 Please list names of adults in neighborhood who were
_ helpful to you.

III. Facilities and improvements to area:

0 What improvements do you think are needed most at this
location?

0 What facilities are most needed?

0 Do you have any suggestions as to layout that you think
would contribute to the successful operation of the unit?

IV. Equipment:

0 List in order of popularity the equipment used this year.

0 Did you have enough equipment to do a good job? What
should be added?

0 Was equipment storage satisfactory?
V. Program:
0 Were the weekly tournaments of value?

0 What events would you like to have next year?

0 Would you like competition between playgrounds? In
what activities?

9 Do the hours of operation fit your neighborhood? Ex-
plain.

. Do you have any suggestions concerning the crafts pro-
gram?

0 What has been the general reaction to our roving story-
teller? Suggestions.

0 What suggestion do you have for rainy day programs at
your site?

0 Do you have any program suggestions for attracting more
teen-agers to the playground?

VI. Miscellaneous:

0 What rules and regulations do you suggest that we add,
change or eliminate from our workers’ handhook?

0 What, in your opinion, can we do to strengthen our public
relations program?

0 List any other suggestions you have for improving our
playgrounds.

0 Would you like to work on the playgrounds next summer?

0 What would be your thinking in regard to uniforms for
leaders (T-shirts for men and wash dresses for women) ?

Name of playground . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Name of leader . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

Additional information on evaluation of playgrounds may
be found in two National Recreation Association publica-
tions: Playground Leaders, Their Selection and Training by
R. T. Forsberg (BBC dill—$.85) and Summer Playground

Evaluation—a Check List (Pl65—$.25) . Both are available
from the NRA, 8 West Eighth Street, New York 11. I

SAFETY PROGRAM RECOMMENDATIONS

Playground Safety Patrol. The initia-
tion of a playground safety patrol will
greatly help in the reduction of, acci-
dents. More SUpervision is one of the
biggest single factors in reducing acci-
dents. However, it is difficult to super~
vise an activity and the grounds and ap-
paratus at the same time; it would be
the primary duty of the safety patrol to
keep a watchful eye on the apparatus
and grounds to see that they are used
properly and safely. If an infraction of

rules is noticed, the playground leader
would be informed.

APRIL 1957

TV Time. Get as much TV time as pos-
sihle. Costumes should be made up in
the winter, and a routine worked out to
prepare for the playground season. The
routine should be both educational and
entertaining, showing the proper way
to use .apparatus. _
Supervision. Playground leaders should
adopt a “get tough” policy in regard to
infractions of rules on the playgrounds.
Too many children are told day after
day to, “sit in the swings” and, “no
climbing up the slide,” and so on. The
children know the rules by this time and
steps should be taken to enforce them.

Playground Signs. Steps should be
taken to see what arrangements can be
made to provide signs warning motor-
ists they are approaching a play area.
Accident Reports. Playground accident
reports should be revised to include
space for recommendations from play-
ground leaders; they might have some
excellent ideas 011 preventing the same
types of accidents from recurring. We
should also insist on a more thorough
report from leaders on accidents re-
ported—JAMES E. BONAIIOOM, Di-
rector of Safety, Fort Wayne Park
Board, Indiana. l

149

A
D
M
I
N
I
S
T
R
A
T
I
0
N

 

Refreshment stand equipment in this B

 

f.__._---_-__...._._ _,_,_w I‘______T__

aton Rouge unit is valued at $6,500.

Concession vs Direct Operations

LIKE ALL TOO MANY public administrative procedures,
there is no generally accepted policy for formulating
procedures for the management of refectories or refresh-
ment stands. In East Baton Rouge Parish we have, from
the inception of our recreation and park program, operated
our own refreshment facilities in the belief that public funds
made the facilities available and the public should receive
all benefits derived from their operation.

Regulations governing operation of the facilities are based
upon a city-parish ordinance, adopted in 1953, which gives
the recreation and park commission exclusive right to vend,
sell or otherwise dispose of goods, merchandise, or any
article of tangible personal property on and within proper-
ties under its jurisdiction.

At present we employ a full-time concession manager
who, with a summer assistant, supervises the department’s
seven full-time and eleven part-time units. Operators are
employed to handle the respective units, also vendors for
the major baseball and football stadiums. Unit operators,
except at the football and baseball stadiums, receive ten
per cent of the gross stand sales, from which they pay for
whatever assistants they may need. At the two stadiums
the unit operator receives twenty per cent of the gross, from
which he pays his help. Vendors receive eighteen per cent
of their gross sales, which are kept separate from stand
sales, with two per cent going to the person in charge of
vendors.

During the past ten years, gross receipts increased from

's12,633 in 194.6 to $63,139 in 1955; net profits from $2,891
to $13,849.

MR. HILEMAN,superintendent of recreation and parks, East
Baton Rouge Parish, Baton Rouge, Louisiana, was chairman
of a subcommittee on concessions of the NRA National A cl-
visory Committee on Recreation Administration. This article
is based on. information gathered by his subcommittee.

150

Compiled by Ralph Ill. Hilcman

In 1955 a verbal offer of $10,000 a year was made by a

local concessionaire for the right to operate the commis-
sion’s facilities. In order to determine whether its method of
operation was most advantageous financially, the com-
mission decided that the right to operate them should be
advertised, in order to determine whether or not a greater
amount could be secured by leasing them than by direct
operation. Specifications for bids on the concessions called
for a one-year contract, included prices, quantity, quality,
and types of goods and services to be offered, listed the
places at which goods were to be sold and the services that
should be provided without cost. They also covered such
items as maintenance of equipment, liability insurance, eon-
cession records and the commission’s right to cancel the
contract.

\Vhen prospective bidders learned they would be required
to operate certain units, as we were doing, even though it
might result in a loss. that they would not be permitted to
increase the prices of merchandise or to change the weight
or size of packages sold, and that they would have to rent
the equipment already owned_by the commission and pro-
vide a performance bond. they lost interest and not a single
bid was received.

With expansion of our program and facilities. it is
believed that the gross income from food and drink opera-
tions will surpass the 8100.000 mark within the next three
years, thus assuring us a net profit of $25,000 to $30,000
annually, which will be invested in additional recreation
programs. .

Any city where refectories are to‘be handled on a con-
eession basis would do well to consider the following cri-
teria suggested by Howard B. Holman, director of the
Fresno, California, Joint Recreation Board. If followed,
these criteria would protect the public interest:

1. Make a careful and exact determination of what is to
be done.

Recamnos

2. Outline goals, procedures, restrictions, activities, pay-
ment, method of payment, and other details in the contract.

3. Discuss the matter at hand, with members of the staff,
and city attorney’s staff, before attempting to write the
contract.

Mr. Holman supplements the above criteria by the follow-
ing specific suggestions:

1. Detail precise uses or activities to be permitted and,
if possible, those which are forbidden.

2. State exact dates of beginning and termination of
contract.

3. State means, if any, for extending the contract.

4. Outline a specific and precise termination procedure.

5. Put down exact method to be followed in surrendering
the facility. ,

6. Include detailed disaster escape clause governing re-
sponsibilities of both parties.

7. Establish and outline standards of operation, main-
tenance (cleanliness), and behavior.

8. Insert specific amounts of money and the means of
payment. If percentage payment is used, specify book-
keeping and auditing procedures to be followed.

9. Establish responsibility for repairs and alterations-—
who will make them and what approvals are required.

10. Reserve right of entry and inspection at any time.

11. Define party responsible for utilities, installation,
service and payment, such as telephone, gas, electricity,
water and sewage.

12. Set standard for personnel to be employed and
approvals required, including dismissal procedure for un-

satisfactory employees.

13. If any sales are to be made on the premises, set the
standard of priccs and means of control of such prices.

14. Specify amounts of insurance to be carried and neces-
sary bonds, particularly performance bonds.

15. Define responsibility for payment of taxes.

16. Establish responsibility for advertising and set
general standards for such advertising with whatever
approvals are required.

17. Define the latitude permitted for assigning or en-
culating the basic contract or portion of it and the pro-
cedure necessary to be followed.

18. Establish dates for performance and penalties for
non-performance.

Where park or recreation authorities lease food and drink
facilities on a concession basis they usually receive ten to
fifteen per cent of gross sales. Departments operating these
services directly, on the other hand, can expect to make
twenty to thirty per cent of gross sales, depending upon:

1. Ability of, and effort put forth by, the concession
manager.

2. Extent of service provided to low volume operations.

3. Method of depreciating, maintaining, replacing or
purchasing new equipment.

4. Volume of business handled in relation to personnel
employed.

5. Manner of employment of manager and concession
employees.

6. Efficiency and sanitary conditions.

7. Quality merchandise handled and prices charged.

—Playgrounds for Creative Play—

Facilities and activities as suggested by a German leader at the 1956 International Recreation Congress.

Liselott Diem

In Germany today we have the same
cultural problems as you do. Automa-
tion is making fast progress and the na-
tural, physical activities of man are hin-
dered more and more. Commercial en-
tertainment is growing up and enticing
us—especially the young people—into
passive experiences and “spectatoritis”!
Therefore, a demand for the “play-
ground around the corner” (as we say
in Germany) has developed in recent
years—for a playground easily accessi-
ble to everyone, offering something for
every age, used all during the year and
for any kind of creative play.

What does a creative play area need?

MRS. DIEM is a leader of Germany’s rec-
reation movement, and was a delegate
at the International Recreation Con-
gress in Philadelphia last year.

APRIL 1957

There are three basic requirements:

1. Because the playground must re-
place the natural environment lost in
cities, it should contain bushes, trees
and some water facilities—not just be
leveled and cemented. On a hill a na-
tural slide can be constructed, provid-
ing a place where the children can run
up and slide down; beams for balancing
can be laid across ditches, where chil-
dren can jump in or climb out at will.

One corner of the playground should
be saved for self-activated play of eight-
to twelve-year-old children.

2. Only apparatus which stimulates
creative play, with no complicated
mechanism, should be used. Equipment,
such as large slides, mechanical swings,
a merry-go-round which can be used by
only two or three children, while the
others passively sit or stand by, is not
creative. Also, giraffes or elephants are
creative for the architect, but not for

the children! To be creative the child
needs simple apparatus, which develops
self-activity and stimulates fancy; for
example, on simple bars at different
heights, perhaps in a corner among the
trees, the child can hang and swing
around forward and backward, and try
to find new variations.

3. Balls, ropes, sticks and other small
moving apparatus should be given out
free of charge in order to further crea-
tive play on the playground. In Berlin,
for example, we count on the distribu-
tion of small apparatus to develop play-
education. The child who returns his
small apparatus in good condition, after
using it for daily play for some weeks,
may receive it as a gift. This is not
always possible but it is a good idea.

These three requirements, then, pro-
vide an education on the playground-—
education of the senses—for physical
fitness and for moral strength. I

151

A
D
M
l
N
l
S
T
R
A
T
l
0
N

 

for the

Administrator

NOTES

Teen-Agers at Work

The employment of teen-agers for maintenance work in
park and recreation areas during the summer months * has
proved highly satisfactory in Roekville, Maryland, accord-
ing to the city manager. Taking issue with industry’s reluc-
tanee to hire teen-agers for summer employment, the city
instituted a work program. Among the tasks to which the
young people were assigned were the correcting of soil ero-
sion in recreation areas, the clearing of land for new recre-
ation sites, and various other clean-up jobs in the parks.
The boys were placed on the regular payroll and paid $1.00
per hour. The program met with enthusiastic support from
the parents, school authorities, and the park department. It
not only afforded a means of releasing the excess energy of
the young people, but provcd of constructive benefit to the

city by freeing more experienced men for work demanding
higher wages.

Oftieials Exceed Authority

It its September 1956 issue, Minnesota Municipalities
cites a court decision under the following head: “City Held
Not Estopped to Claim Land Conveyed to lt~for Park and
Recreational Purposes.” Some years ago two t'raets'of land
in Fergus Falls were conveyed to the city with the following
restrictions: “It is eXpressly understood and agreed that
the above premises shall be used only for park and for rec-
reational purposes and that they shall not be used for com-
mercial purposes.”

In May 1947 a businessman was permitted by the city to
move his shop to a site on the tract in question. In fact,
city officials gave him a moving permit, sapervised the
moving of the building, and designated the bonndaries of
the property he was to occul)y. Some time later he began
to erect a new structure. After he learned that the land was
subject to the limiting condition, he secured from the grantor
to the city a quitclaim deed which stated that it was given to
release this portion of the tract from the restrictions. When
this deed was recorded, this part of the tract was placed on
the tax rolls and the businessman subsequently paid taxes
on the property.

The city later brought action to recover the property and
the state supreme court in 1956 held that the defendant had
acquired no rights and the city could maintain its action.
“The court followed a well-established rule that cstoppel
as applied to a municipal corporation cannot grow out of
deals with city ollieials who exceed their authority.”

* Such employment is being tried out in an increasing number of
communities. The “workreation” prOgram in Berkeley, California, is
a case in point.

152

Half-Mile Radius

National standards have long suggested that a neighbor-
hood playground should be located within one-quarter to
one-half mile of the homes of the people it is intended to
serve. A recreation survey of the Rockford, Illinois, Park
District in 1955 indicated that children in the Rockford area
will not travel further than a half-mile to reach a playground
even if leadership service is not given in the area outside 
half-mile radius. The study revealed that ninety-live per
cent of over three thousand children participating in twer
of the city’s supervised playgrounds resided within a half-
mile of the playgrOUnd they attended and approximately
seventy-five per cent of them lived within quarter-mile of
the playground they attended regularly.

Multiple-Use Area

 

Multiple-use area in Dallas, Texas. Note semi-circular
paved area outside of backstop, with basketball goal.

The multiple-use area installed in a number of Dallas.
Texas, parks is of tennis-court size and partially enclosed.
At the four corner posts, lights have been installed for gen-
eral play (not tennis). At each end, outside the end fence.
semicircular paved areas have been provided with a basket-
ball goal erected on the outside of the fence. This permits
one-goal basketball play at either end of the area without
interfering with tennis or group games.

Magic Square “1 20”

Ferndalc, Michigan, is promoting the use of a hard-topped
area for recreation on the playgrOUnd which, according to
its brochure, oflers “recreational and community activi-
ties for all groups and ages close to . . . home!” This in-
volves a smooth, quick-drying, hard-surface play area, 120
feet square, which permits an uninterrUpted planned pro-
gram of activities throughout the year. It is marked all into
a series of courts which can serve for: badminton, basketball.
box hockey, dancing, hopseotch, ice skating. kid showers.
paddle tennis, roller skating, shullleboard. tennis or volley-
ball, and can also be used year-round for day and night
eonccrts, contests and shows.

For full particulars, write to the Ferndalc Recreation
Advisory Committee, 130 East Nine Mile Road, Fermlale
20, Michigan.

Liability
According to the Washington State Recreation Society’s
Bulletin for June 1956, the state supreme court ruled that

(Continued on page 154.}

RECREATION

MORE THAN

100,000

US SCHOOLS AND COLLEGES EACH YEAR SPECIFY

America's Finest Sports Equipment by

NEW YORK 11 DANVILLE, ILL. ' LOS ANGELES Ila

JUST PUBLISHED!
 DANCING—2nd Edition

Grace I. Fox and Kathleen Gruppe Merrill. American square
dances and dances of foreign lands widely different in type, geographic
distribution, and styles of performance. Colorful new book describes
the fundamental steps, presents the step pattern for each measure of
the musical score, and details the figures of each call of the square
dance. Book gives appropriate musical scores in easy-to-play arrange-
ments and also provides a list of suitable recordings. 25 ills., 20 musi-

cal scores. 81/3 x 11. $3.50
ALSO NEW!

B0    3rd Edition

Joe Falcaro and Murray Goodman. All the rules and skills of
duck pin and tenpin bowling. Discusses in detail: selecting and hold-
ing the ball, stance, footwork, approach and deliveries. Relates aim,
control, Speed, and knowledge of alley conditions to accuracy in
hitting pins. Gives full information on the organization and conduct
of leagues, teams, tournaments, as well as current oHicial rules and

regulations. 59 photos, drawings. 61/3 at 10. $3

 

From the Ronald Sports List:

Baseball Techniques Illustrated

Ethan Allen and Tyler Micoleau. tion and play of America's favorite
Top-notch coaching advice and numer- game. 150 ills.
ous action drawings cover every posi- $1.95

Tennis Techniques Illustrated

Wynn Mace and Tyler Micoleau. Covers fundamentals and strategy of
Describes and graphically illustrates both singles and doubles. I26 drawings.
how to play'a winning tennis game. - $1.95

Winning Badminton

Kenneth B. Davidson and Lealand minton. Facts for group instruction,
R. Gustavson. Fully details the fun- club organization. I46 ills. and photos.
damentals and advanced tactics of bad- 61/2 at 10. $3

Softball for Girls

A. Viola Mitchell. Covers offensive notes for umpires, simple method of
and defensive softball through text, scoring, and suggestions for teaching.
photos, and diagrams. Includes special 3rd Ed. 55 ills. 31.95

A: bookstores or from:

The Ronald Press Company 0 15 E. 26th St., New York 10
APRIL 1957

     
 
 
 
   

'  for every
 RECREATION
- AOTIVITv

 
 
 

_ o transcription player
.  0 public address system

' - 

r _‘ For every so_und reproduCtion
r .g: applIcatIon 1n recreation halls,
31,: gyms, auditoriums, or summer
H” J; camps, the Newcomb R-16CV
," 1 does the job better, yet weighs
.- ’ ' less than 22 pounds. A separate
a, n ' ‘ micrOphone and phonograph
3 '1,“ volume control permits m1x1ng
' recorded music with the micro-

phone presentation. Variable
speed control allows variable
-' tempo and pitch (from any basic
speed setting). A quality heat
and humidity resistant high
. fidelity ceramic pickup is encased

_ in a professional-type tone arm.
Balanced-design amplifier with
inverse feedback in combination
with a fine ten-inch extended
range speaker give quality you'd
never expect at its price. N ewcomb
is the "sound of quality since
'45, r' 1937”. . . recognized by leading
:5, ‘ ' school authorities from coast

 coast to coast.

 

 

{Ar-I“ 

r- .'
a 'V‘
K I; 1‘. a ‘ A - _ I'

   

,  ‘ ~ Exclusive Newcomb design gives
'  dependable continuously variable
J  control at all 3 speeds.
i 

“73-. '13 N EWCOM B
« Audio Products 00., Dept. 2-4
6824 Lexington AIL. Hollywood 38, Calif.

[21 Send free catalog of Newcomb
"' portable sound eqmpment.

.. - [:1 Send name of our nearest
._  Newcomb distributor.

      
     
 

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 153

the city of Seattle was not liable for a fatal skating accident
that occurred in a street set aside for winter sledding. In a
unanimous five-judge opinion, the court reversed a jury
award to the father of two boys, one of whom was killed and
the other injured when a sled on which they were riding
struck an automobile parked in an area designated for
sledding.

The plaintiff contended that the city negligently failed to
keep its streets free of obstruction and permitted a nuisance
on a public street. Speaking for the court, the udge said,
“In the ownership, control and supervision of its streets a
municipality acts in its governmental and not in its propri-
etary capacity and for negligence in the performance of such
a function it is immune from liability. There is no statutory
duty in this state imposed upon a municipality to keep its
streets free from nuisance.”

Ill- * i' i'

The September 1956 issue of the Wisconsin Recreation
Association Bulletin includes an oral decision handed down
in the circuit court of Manitowoc County, Wisconsin. The
case involved an accident which occurred to an individual
who was injured by falling near the outrun of a toboggan
slide operated by the city of Manitowoc. After the case
had been argued at length, the counsel for the city made a

Watch for -—
the June issue of 2602mm

with its special emphasis on the problems of
encroachment on recreation and park land.

 

New Ideas

PRACTICAL
PROJECTS
for
WEAVERS
Of All Ages
IN
EVERY ,
ISSUE

Handweaver

Er Craftsmn

II

 

Single Copies 3 l .00

Published Quarterly — 64 Informative Pages

Write today for brochure and prices on back issues.

A subscription to Handwcaver & Craftsman and a complete file
of back issues will provide you with a live weaving library.

Handweavcr & Craftsman
DEPT. R, 246 FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK 1

Single copy 51, 1 yr. 54, 2 yrs. $7.50, 3 yrs. $10, 5 yrs. 315

Canadian postage 50c year extra, Pan American and Iareign $1

 

154 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

l

motion for a nonsuit on the grounds that the “safe place
statute” did not apply in the case. After hearing the argu-l
ments on the motion, the court held that, inasmuch as the
slide was not a public building as defined in the statute andI
that the slide could not be considered a structure and thatll
the person was not actually injured on the slide itself, the

 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
   
   
 
  
  
   
  
   
   
 
  
    
  
  
 
  
   
  

motion for a nonsuit was granted and the complaint was
dismissed.

Recent Experimentation

Wading Pools. Recent park developments in Gran
Rapids, Michigan, are described by Frederick C. See, super-
intendent of parks, in the December 1956 issue of The A mcr-l
{can City. Of special interest is the description of the city’sl
wading pools, which explains its experimentation and de-
velopment of a wading pool that provides safe water without
requiring costly recirculation equipment. The Michigan
State Health Department and city health department hav
studied the operation of these pools and, on the basis 0
daily water analysis reports, have considered the water t
be completely safe.

“Here is how our design works,” he writes. “First, w
adust the inlet and overflows of the city’s seventeen wadin
pools to completely replenish the water every eight hours
Second, we have developed a special system of applyin
chlorine to the water which is safe, easy, and does not re
quire skilled help.

“We have designed a small stainless steel box which i
set below the water level under the inlet pipe. In this bo.
we place sodium hypochlorite tablets, the number of whi
has been empirically determined for each 1500] and wh'
ranges from one hundred to two hundred tablets three tir
a (lay. (Grand Rapids” wading pools have capacities t
vary from seven thousand to twenty thousand gallon
When the temperature is below seventy degrees, the ap
cation can be cut in half. We supply each park careta
or attendant with a small inexpensive comparator to
several times a day to see that the chlorine residual does 1
drop below one part or go over three parts per million. T
operation is practically routine. does not require any ju
rnent on the part of the attendant, and has proved to
extremely successful.

“Finally, to reduce ground dirt from being carried it
the pools, we have fenced the pools oil from surround'
areas, and then within the fenced portions have surroun
them with an eight-foot concrete deck. Furthermore. .
preaches to the fenced areas are paved with asphaltic eon
ercte.”

Surfacing. Mr. See also points out that Grand liapid
normally surfaces its apparatus areas by covering six
eight inches of crushed rock or gravel with eight inches 0
coarse sawdust. Scarcity of tanbark and availability of sa“
dust has resulted in the use of the latter material. Thei
espcrienee after four years of constant use of sawdust 11
been that it causes little, if any trouble. The area (lri
quickly, weeds do not grow in it and coarse sawdust does in
adhere readily to the children’s clothing. It provides a resi
ient surface that requires daily raking and occasionally son
replacement. I

Recess-rm.

APRIL 1957

PA RKS are the setting for many
Recreation Programs.

PARK administration and know-

how aid and complement your
work.

The PARK and RECREATION pic—

ture is a dynamic, changing
one.

Only one magazine leads in com—
plete coverage of this field:

I from new products to new
presidents of societies

I From how to put a bond
issue across to the latest

SWIMMING POOL data

and design.

Join our family of over 14,000
readers who use PM as their
working tool.

Send your purchase order to:

PARK MAINTENANCE

Dept. R
P. O. Box 409

Appleton, Wisconsin

One year—$3.00 Three yeors—$7.50
Groups of five or more, one year-—
$2.00 per person.

 

GOOD CRAFTS——

Make Better RECREATION Programs

Build your recreotionol progroms oround Clevelond Crofts proiects.
Every order is given immediote ottention and prices ore exceedingly

low . . . especially on quantity orders. Freight ollowonces ore mode
on all orders over $50.

Wrife For Your Free Cafang of Handicraff Supplies

CATALOG ILLUSTRATES .AND DESCRIBES HUNDREDS OF CRAFT
PROJECTS, HARD TO RESIST, FOR YOUR RECREATIONAL PROGRAMS.

CLEVELAND CRAFTS COMPANY

34 ELMWOOD PARKWAY
IELMWOOD PARKI CHICAGO 35, III.

4705 EUCLID AVE.
CLEVELAND 3, OHIO

 

LOOP TENNIS

CHAMPION OF PLAYGROUND GAMES

It’s t0ps in popularity among all ages!

Biggest value for your money— because of low cost, constant
use, small space required, no hazards, tremendous appeal to
skilled and unskilled alike, and both social and organic values.

ORDER YOUR SET TODAY!

D. R. M. LOOP TENNIS COMPANY. INC.
P. O. Box 481 Tallahassee. Florida

LOUISVILLE SLIIGGER BATS

for the famous

ovoltrode-mork
on the bot

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 155

P E RS 0 N N E L
_____—_l__

Join Forces for Better Training

How a group of suburban recreation directors co-
operated in preparing for their playground seasons.

William H. Radke

HEN SEVERAL heads get together
w many things can happen—some of
them good! For example, an interesting
training idea was born in January 1956
at a meeting of the Chicago West Subur-
ban Recreation Directors Group, which
represents seven suburbs with a year-
round recreation program. Members
discovered that each community direc--
tor was planning a pre-summer training
program for his summer staff. It was
suggested, therefore, that they combine
their training efforts. They unanimously

 

The group is addressed by Ray Duf-
fy of American Red Cross on safety.

agreed, and decided to invite Gunnar
Peterson, assistant professor of camping
and recreation at Georgc Williams Col-
lege, in Chicago, to the next meeting for
a discussion of such a training program
and to determine what outside help he
might be able to provide. Lilly Ruth
Hansen, director at Oak Park, Illinois,
gave an on-the-spot invitation to hold
the training sessions in one of her play-
ground shelters.

In February, Professor Peterson at-
tended the West Suburban meeting,
primed with suggestions. In forty-five
minutes the subu rbanites had laid out a
rough but complete schedule. Professor
Peterson promised to polish it and ofier

MR. RADKE is recreation superintendent
in Brookfield, Illinois.

156

suggestions. During the following month
and many ideas later, the group recon-
vened and drafted the final versions of
a playground leaders’ workshop that
never could have been possible in any
one community.

It was all done for a dollar a day!
Two-and-a-half days of training for a
$2.50 fee from each registrant provided
the budget, and the recreation depart-
ments picked up the tabs. In fact, some
trainees were on a pay basis while at-
tending. Leadership for the sessions was
drawn from the department heads of the
various communities who covered spe-
cialized phases of the training program,
and from the police and Red Cross. Col-
legc personnel also proved invaluable
in the various sessions. About half of the
seventy-five persons attending were do-
ing recreation work for the first time.
Information from the session speakers,
plus thc chance to talk among them-
selves, proved heartening and stimulat-
ing to the beginners. To the old hands
it was an excellent review coupled with
many ncw ideas and theories.

Professor Peterson chaircd the con-
ference on a non-lagging basis. Work-
shoppers brought their lunches each day
to insure time for bull-session discus-
sions without leaving the area. Staff
membch from some communities util-
ized the generous lunch periods for
meetings. '

Training content covered a wide va-
riety of subjects, touching only the high-
lights to be sure, but with ample time
for gcneral questions. Among topics
were: “Simple Games for Use as Ice-
Breakers”; “Objectives and Philosophy
that Undergird Our Work Togethcr”;
“Playground Equipment and Safety
Rulcs”; “Rclations with Police”; “Pub-
lic Relations”; “Stories and Creative
Dramatics”; “Rainy and Hot Weather

Programs”; “Get Acquainted Pro
grams”; “Registration and Attendanc:
Forms”; “Business Records and Pro
gram Records Individual Communit]
Programs”; “What are We Trying t4
Accomplish through Our Crafts Pro
gram?”; “Nature Lore, Campcraft
Outdoor Living”; “Age Groupings ant
Developmental Levels, Including th.
Teen-Agers”; “lnterplayground Com
petition”; and others.

The value of this type of training ses

sion will be rccognized by almost an}

 

Professor Peterson gives a cooko
demonstration on homemade gr]

professional recreation person; but,
addition, the fact that this was a c
Operative venturc brought to it a ric
ncss of experience and of program n
always possible in the smallcr mcetin
It enlargcs local thinking, as well as a
quainting workers with problcms to u
anticipath and how to deal with the
“How can I use this? We are not
suburban community!” That’s
you’re asking, isn’t it? Without exc
tion, the luembcrs of the Chicago W a
Suburban Recrcation Directors Gro
fcel that the training value would just'
a fifty-mile trip—in each direction if 1
cessary. This sort of training aid, a
that’s what it is, can be used anywh
in the country. With one town as a h
it can branch fifty miles in evcry dir
tion; that’s a circle with a hunder 111

4‘
4';
~

RECREATI

.iameter. In almost any such circle can
re found at least four, or more, com-

iunities with

recreation programs.
Iheck your map.

Nearby schools and colleges will be
lad to help. The National Recreation
.ssociation will help, too. We owe it to
ur communities and our profession to
ut on the best program we know how.
'hese cooperative training sessions will
‘on out many rough spots and provide

vast contribution to the morale and

1 your area. Why don’t you try it? I l

I interests,
elf-assurance of the recreation workers '

ANNUAL CAREER DAY

The Seventeenth Annual Career Day
at the Marlboro, Massachusetts, High
School was devoted to “Careers and Lei-
sure Time Activities.” The keynote ad-
dress, “Careers and Opportunities in
Recreation,” was given by John P.
Cronin, director of recreation in Provi-
dence, Rhode Island. The basic theme
of the program was “recreation” and
covered fields of social service, artistic
personality, entertainment,
hobbies, outdoor activities, music,
sports, therapy, physical fitness for

both men and women, boating, sailing
and water sports.

Other recreation personnel taking
part were: Richard E. Ready, director
of recreation, Norwood; William F.
Ryan, director of recreation, Quincy;
and Sally Randall, supervisor of girls
and women’s activities, Arlington, all
Massachusetts. The program was under
direction of Dr. Robert A. Dolan, di-
rector of guidance in the Marlboro pub-
lic school and Louis F. Ghiloni, director
of recreation, Marlboro.

 

 

for 1957

CIRCLES OF FRIENDSHIP

 

NEIGHBORHOOD ' HOME - PLAYGROUND

Twelve bulletins, full of new ways to build bridges be-
tween homc, neighborhood and playground. Order from

the National Recreation Association, 8 West Eighth Street,
New York 11, New York. $2.50 ($2.00 for NRA members).

Available May 1.

Plaiground Summer Notebook

 
 

   
  
 
 
  
   

20%

TROPHI ES

ENGR-AVING FREE!

On All Trophies
Purchased From

Mia/ml,

SAVINGS OF

 

to 40%

o MEDALS o PLAQUES

‘ FOR ALL SPORTS AND EVENTS

FREE CATALOG

Michal, TROPHY SALES, INC.

75 W. Van Buren St.

Chicago, Illinois

 

HELP WANTED ' ' POSITIONS WANTED ' ' SERVIIIES AVAILABLE ' ' WORKSHOPS A (ONFERENIIES ' ' EDUIIATIONAI. OPPORTUNITIES ' ' ITEMS FOR EXIIHAHGE

. . . . . . CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING . . . . . .

RATES: Words in regular type $.15 each
Words in boldface type $.25 each
Minimum ad accepted  $3.00

Send copy with remittance to:

COPY: Type—or clearly print—your
message and the address to which you
wish replies sent. Underline any words
you want to appear in boldface type.

DEADLINES: C0py must be received by
the fifth of the month preceding date of
the issue in which ad is desired.

RECREATION Classified Advertising, 8 West Eighth Street, New York 11, New York.

HELP WANTED

roup Workers. Master’s Degrees in group
ork. education, recreation preferred. Will
'50 train promising B.S. graduates. National
rganization serving teen-age youth. Start-
lg salary range $4500 to $5500 depending
pon training and eXperience. Send complete
:sume to B’nai B’rith Youth Organization,
L29 Vermont Avenue. Washington 9. D. C.

ounsellors, men and women. Openings at
. Y. State private co-educational camp for
aneral and Specialty counsellors. 8-week
:ason from July 1. Salary dependent upon
ualifications. p us room and board. Write
)1‘ application. Camp To-Le-Do. 102-18 64th
venue. Forest Hills, N. Y.

Teachers Wanted. Physical Education. Ex-
perienced start to $6000. Beginners to $4.450.
No registration fee. Write for a plication.
City Suburban Agency, 550 Fift Avenue,
N. Y. C.

Black Hiils Boys’ Ranch. Counselors and
camp agents for small western camp. W. E.
Derr. Director. Piedmont. South Dakota.

POSITIONS WANTED

Recreation Director 8.: Golf Coach desires
position in Westchester nearby Connecticut.
Ten years experience in all phases of recrea-
tion. Will accept summer position as Golf
Coach. Write to Director, 597 Fairfield Ave-
nue. Stamford, Conn.

Overseas Tour Leader or Camp Crafts Coun-
selor. Summer or longer. Experienced with
teen-agers and emotionally disturbed Chll-
dren; creative crafts, mental therapy. Ida
Fisch, 1902 East 18th Street, Brooklyn 29,
New York.

EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES

Handweaving instruction now. all crafts dur-
ing summer. Open House—April 27th and
28th. Black Creek Crafts School, Sussex,
N. J.. R. D. #2.

WORKSHOPS & CONFERENCES

NRA New England District Recreation Con-
ference—May 26-29—at Poland Spring House,
Poland Spring. Maine. For information.
write: Waldo Hainsworth, District Re re-
sentative. Fowler Road. Northbridge. ass.

IMPORTANT: REMITTANCE MUST ACCOMPANY ORDER.

.PRIL 1957

157

r-mZZOMIDI’TIT

Books & Pamphlets
Received ‘

ART OF OFFICIATING SPORTS, THE (Sec-
ond Edition), John W. Bunn. Pren-
tice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, New J er-
sey. Pp. 388. $6.35.

BIRD BIOGRAPHIES OF JOHN JAMES AU-

DUBON, THE, Alice Ford, Editor. The
Macmillan Company, 60 Fifth Ave-
true, New York 11. Pp. 282. $10.00.

BLUE-RIBBON PLAYS FOR GRADUATION
(One-act royalty-free plays), Sylvia
E. Kamerman, Editor. Plays, Inc., 8
Arlington Street, Boston 16. Pp. 202.
$3.50.

COMMUNITY EDUCATION IN WORLD AF-
FAIRS, William C. Rogers. University
of Minnesota Press, Minneapolis 14.
Pp. 86. Paper $1.25 each; (five or

more, $.75 each, plus postage.)

CONTRACT BRIDGE: HOW TO PLAY IT,
Ewart Kempson. Emerson Books,

251 West 19th Street, New York 11.
Pp. 164. $2.50.

     

 

 

 

INDEX OF ADVERTISERS

PAGE

All Metal Tennis Table Company_-_I---_---- 127
American Playground Device

Company ____________ __-.__lnside Front Cover
Association Press  _, - .lnside Front Cover
The .l. E. Burke Company- ----- “A”... 127
California State Personnel Board ..--. . 123
Peter Carver Associates .--_____lnside Front Cover

Cleveland Crafts Company-. .. .  155
The Copper Shop _-..---_A.-_ . 123
D. R. M. loop Tennis. 155
Dayton Racquet Company 123
Dimco-Gray Company  127
Films. lnc. --_----.-___.-__ 1 13
Handweaver 8. Craftsman 154
Hillerich 8. Bradsby  155
Hillyard  __-..,-,_ . . _ 121
Hoppy Taw Corporation , 159
Jamison Manufacturing Company- 144
Jayfro Athletic Supply Company .. 144

The MacGregor Company_.-_---lnside Front Cover

McGraw-Hill Book Company. - I- -.. 159
Monroe Company  , . 144
National Studios  . 114
National Trophy Sales 157
Newcomb Audio Products Company 153
New York University School of Education 127
Nissen Trampoline Company  -..__- 123
Park Maintenance -. .._--_-  _ 155
Rawlings Sporting Goods Company 159
The Ronald Press Company-.- .-_-_ 153
James Spencer 8. Company. 144
Square Dance Associates  .. 12?
Superior Industries Corporation. 144
Voit ..._-I.____--__-_-_L---_._-A_-.-..- 153
X-acto. lnc.  123

158

DIRECTORY OF CAMPS, 1957. American
Camping A s s o c i a ti on, Bradford
Woods, Martinsville, Indiana. Pp.
249. $.50.

EDUCATORS GUIDE TO FREE TAPES,
,SCRIPTS, AND TRANSCRIPTIONS, 1957.
Educators Progress Service, Ran-

dolph, Wisconsin. Pp. 184. Paper
$5.75.

FIRST AID AND CARE OF SMALL ANI-
MALS, Ernest P. Walker. Animal
Welfare Institute, 22 East 17th Street,
New York 3. Pp. 45. 3.25.

FOUR-STAR PLAYS FOR BOYS (Fifteen
royalty-free, one-act plays for all-boy
casts), A. S. Burack, Editor. Plays.
Inc., 8 Arlington Street, Boston 16.
Pp. 237. $3.50.

GROUP GAMES FOR GIRLS AND WOMEN.
American Association for Health,
Physical Education. and Recreation,

1201 Sixteenth Street, N.W., Wash-
ington 6, D. C. Pp. 32. $.50.

HANDBOOK FOR LEADERS OF ORGANIZA-
TIONS. compiled by Elizabeth T. Hal-
sey. Carrie Chapman Catt Memorial
Fund. 461 Fourth Avenue, New York
16. Pp. 64. $.25.

HANDWEAVER’S WORKBOOK, A. Heather
G. Thorpe. The Macmillan Company,
60 Fifth Avenue. New York 11. Pp.
179. $4.50.

HI-FI EQUIPMENT YEARROOK. 1957.
Sanford M. Herman. Editor. Herman
and Stephens. 200 East 37th Street.
New York 16. Pp. 127. Paper $1.95;
cloth $52.75.

HOME AOUARIUM HANDBOOK, Griffith
and Lillian Borgeson. Arco Puhlish-

ing Company, 480 chington Avenue,
New York 17. Pp. 143. $2.00.

HOUSE FOR MARvIN, A (Onc-act play
ahout discrimination in housing),
Darius Leander Swarm. Fricnrlshin

Press, 257 Fourth Avenue, New York
10. Pp. 40. 3.50.

How TO MAKE MONEY WITII CARNIVAL
GAMES. Thcron Fox. Rosicrucian
Press, 50 Notre Damc Avenne. San

Jose 6, California. Pp. 143. Papcr
$52.00; cloth 33.00.

How TO SURvIv'E ON LAND AND SEA
(Sccond Revised Edition). U. S.

Naval Institute, Annapolis,Maryland.
Pp. 368. $4.00.

PLANNING THE GOLF CLUBHOUSE. Har-
old J. Cliflcr. National Golf Founda-
tion. 407 S. Dcarhorn Strect, Chicago
5. Pp. 96. $9.00.

TOIIND-TIIE-YEAR PLAYS FOR CIIILDREN
(Thirty-fivc royalty-frce plays for all
occasions), Alice Vcry. Plays, Inc.,
8 Arlington Strcct, Boston 16. Pp.
279. $3.50.

SING TOGETHER—A Girl Scout Song-
book (1957 Edition). Girl Scouts of
the U.S.A.. 155 East 44111 Street, Ncw
York 17. Pp. 127. 3.50.

 

 

SPORTS FILM GUIDE. The Athletic Insti
tute, 209 South State Street, Chicag

4. Pp. 76. Paper $1.00.

TIPS FROM THE TOP (Book 2: 52 More
Golf Lessons by the Country’s Lead-
ing Pros from Sports Illustrated)
compiled by Herbert Warren Wind
Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, Nev
Jersey. Pp. 105. $3.95.

TREASURY OF AMERICAN INDIAN TALES

Theodore Whitson Ressler. Associa
tion Press, 291 Broadway, New Yor

7. Pp. 310. $3.95.

UNDERWATER WORLD, THE, John Tas
sos. Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs
New Jersey. Pp. 242. $4.95. (1

WE LIVE FOR HIM (An Easter Servic
for the church school), Effie Sand
strom Jorgenson. Augustana Press
Rock Island, lllinois. Pp. 16. 5.1
each; $1.00 per dozen.

YEAR OF YOUNG PEOPLE’S PROGRAMS,
(For church groups), Wally an
Esther Howard. Moody Press. 82
Uorth La Salle Street, Chicago 10
Pp. 64. Paper $.75.

 
    
  
 
       
   
   
 
   
  
  
  
   
   
  
 
 
 
  

If

Magazine Articles

ADULT LEADERSHIP, March 1957
Adult Education and lnlergroup R
lations. Martin P. Chworows ,

and Hans B. C. Spiegef.

Hints on How to Attend a Confe
ence, Blue Carstenson.

ARTS AND ACTIvITIES, February 1957
Paper Sculpture That Sells, Lucil
H. Jenkins.

GIRL SCOUT LEADER, March 1957
Campsite Crafts, Corinne M. Mnrp .
Conservation in Camps, Sue Han

mack.

INDUSTRIAL SPORTS AND RECREATIO.
November 1956
Boys and Girls Together, Oskar

Froweiu.

, December 1956
Having Fun Aftcr Sixty. Robert
Peterson.

, January 1957
Recrcation Gocs Downhill—On S
Slopcs. That Is, OsA'ar Fronrein.

J OURNAI. OF HEALTH. PHYSICAL EDUC-
'I‘ION, RECREATION. February 1957
Highlights of the Conference on Pr

fessional l’rcparation Of liccrt‘
tion Pcrsonncl. John L. Hutchi
son.
Suburban School-Community Rear
ation, Thomas S. Yrrb'ie.

PARK MAINTENANCE, February 1957
Annual Swinnning Pool lssuc.

SWIMMING POOL AGE, February 195?
lmprovetl Busincss Procedures ft
thc Mnnicipally Opcratcd Pool.

RECREATI u

1k

——0utstanding—

MCGRAW-HILL Books
=—%in Recreation:

7

\

The first complete book on the inereasingly important
subject of industrial recreation.

 

INDUSTRIAL RECREATION

A Guide to I ts Organization and Administration

By  M.  American

Association of Health, Physical Education and Recreation,
National Industrial Recreation Association.

McGraw-Hill Series in Health Education,
Physical Education, and Recreation.

304 pages, $5.00

 

  

‘

It is intended as a

 

 

So sensationally better are
they on every count—design,
construction. quality,
durability and play-ability—
that Rawlings HERCULITE
Rubber-Covered Athletic Balls
have established a new high

7'

...._.._.__________..l

 

9AP

guide to recreation directors in administering employee
recreation programs, and for those who wish to study
the organization and administration of such a pro-
gram. In addition to specific recommendations on
planning and initiating a program, its activities, lead-
ership and financing, there is a thorough discussion of
the history of employee recreation and its benefits to
industrial relations.

 

INTRODUCTION TO
CODIDIUNITY RECREATION

3y GEORGE D. BUTLER

McGraw-Hill Series in Sociology
and Anthropology.

Second Edition 0 548 pages, $6.00

 

The second edition of this popular book deals with
those forms of recreation which require a large degree
of organization and leadership, and in which partici—
pation plays an important part. Recreation is consid-
ered as a function of local government. All aspects
and phases of community recreation are presented,
with recent deveIOpments included. Recrcatiou is ana—
lyzed am] a eomprehensive bibliography is offered to
facilitate reference work. It is a well-organized text,
without a peer in the field of community recreation.

USE THIS COUPON

COLLEGE DEPARTMENT, McGRAW—HILL BOOK COMPANY, Inc.
330 West 42nd Street, New York 36, N.Y.

Please send me, on approval, a copy or the book(s) checked below. I agree to
pay for the book(s) upon receipt of invoice or return the book’(s) within 10

days.
[I INDUSTRIAL RECREATION

I] INTRODUCTION TO COMMUNITY RECREATION

Name . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Zone.. ...State . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Title . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
R457

Attiliation.

u - e e u c c c c c . c c I a c e e e e e e e e e e c c c e c e e e c c I e c c e I e e e e I c e c c c c I e

McGraw-Hill BOOK COMPANY, INC.

330 West 42nd Street, New York 36, N.Y.

RIL 1957

' V

_______________________ ___l

o VOLLEY BALLS
o SOCCER BALLS

 

standard. They’re in a class
by themselves—they're . . .

"The Finest In The Field! "

o BASKET BALLS
o FOOTBALLS

1.

RAWLINGS SPORTING GOODS (0. ° St. Louis 0 Los Angeles 0 Dallas 0 Chicago

    
   
  
 
 

 ii

TOURNAMENT

(“Menace/res

I l0 day free trip to HOLLYWOOD
2 Appearance with Art Linkletter
3 A tour of DISN EYLA N D

4 A rideina HELICOPTER

5 Round trip flight on 007 by United Airlines
-- (on/est It’d/es

- Must be under 14 years of age and attend public school
or recreation center

0 Must be the winner of local Hoppy Taw tournament

0 Must send one Hoppy Taw card with full name and address
—plus name and address of school or recreational cen-

ter, and name of instructor or teacher

 

For complete details write ta:

TOURNAMENT DEPARTMENT, HOPPY TAW CORPORATION

927 South State Street, Salt Lake City, Utah

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

159

 

Theatre Seeneeraft *

Vern Adix. Children's Theatre Press,
Anchorage, Kentucky. Pp. 309. $6.50.

Theatre Scenecraft isn’t an “easy”
book because stagecraft isn’t easy.
However, a novice could, with this book
in hand, build, light and dress a set.
Vern Adix has put it all down. He tells
you where to find a special nail that
may not be in every hardware store.
He tells you how to get the color you
want in a sure fashion without resort-
ing to “pour in a little black to make
it darker.” He has added to each page
clear sketches that illuminate the text.
If you must work without the super-
vision of one trained to stagecraft, this
book will see you.through.———Mary Ellen
Hilliard, Adelplzi College Children’s
Theatre, Garden City, New York.

Creative Crafts For Campers *

Catherine T. Hammett and Carol M.
Harrocks. Assaciation Press, 291 Broad-

way, New York 7. Pp. 432. $7.95.

Expensive? Not when you get around
a hundred and seventy-five suggestions
for arts and crafts, a hundred of which
have detailed, step-by-step directions
explained clearly in words and sketches.

This is no “off-the-top-of-thc-head”
' book. Every project has been chosen
carefully for its value and suitability
for use in modern camp programs.
These are crafts to round out and ful-
fill the objectives of camping.

The organization of this book fol-
lows the pattern of The Camp Program
Book, which Miss Hammett co-authorcd
with this reviewer. The first section is
short, giving an overall picture of the
place and importance of arts and crafts
in the eamp setting, the objectives,
leadership required and facilities
needed.

From there on, the book becomes an
instruction book. Section Two deals
with the major art and crafts areas,
with full, detailed text and illustrations.
Section Three deals with arts and
crafts projects specifically related to
other camp activities and providing
opportunities for correlation in the pro-
gram.

For added value, each chapter is f 01-
lowed by a carefully selected list of

160

Covering the Leisure-time Field

references, and the book contains not
only a most detailed table of contents
but also an index.

Those who know Miss Hammett (and
who in the field of camping does not?)
will find here her direet, uncluttered
approach, each teehnique explored
thoroughlyrand developed not only to
give the best possible experiences to
the campers, but also to maintain the
highest possible camp program stand-
ards.

Carol Horrocks brings her rich ex-
perience as art teacher in Providence,
Rhode Island, 'and as handcraft coun-
selor at Camp Hoffman, Rhode Island,
for the past seven years, to make the
detailed sketches and instruetions ac-
curate, attraetive and usable.

This book is an absolute must for all
camp libraries. Recreation departments
and craft leaders at playgrounds or in-
door centers will also find it a very
valuable addition to their resourec li-
brary.——Virginia Musselman, NRA
Program Service.

How to Make Shapes in Space

Toni Hughes. E. P. Dutton & Com-
pany, 300 Fourth Avenue, New York
10. Pp. 217. $4.95.

The author of this fascinating book,
designed for parents, teachers, recrea-
tion leaders, art students and display
designers, tells us that “no idea is as
good from the point of view of fun as
the one that you make up yourself.”

With this assurance to inspire you.
and very simple technical instructions
as well as explicit diagrams and photo-
graphs to guidc you, start with the
book’s seven basic methods, and even-
tually you will produce variations of
your own. Learn to transform flat ma-
terials into three-dimensional party
decorations, masks, grccting cards,
holiday ornaments and favors, aniinals.
toys, posters, mobiles and abstract
constructions.

The book has an irresistible quality
that will captivate you, so prepare your
scissors, hole puncher, hand stapler
and an assortment of papcrs-—-ncws-
paper, brown paper, magazine covers,

"‘ Available from NRA Recreation Book
Eager, 8 West Eighth Street, New York 1],

old sheet music, last year’s Christmas
wrappings, wallpaper, and so on and
start right in. Learn the seven depart-
ing points called by the author: the
pleat, strip, one continuous cut, related
cuts, take away, add to, and slits—then
follow all the variations in the book.
Later you can exercise endless ingen-
uity in the variety of materials you
utilize and ideas you create.

The author’s experiences with dis-
plays for children’s exhibitions, depart-
ment store windows and specialty
houses are well illustrated. Sourees are
given for purchasing materials and
tools other than those which you can
salvage—Shirley Silbert, instructor in
arts and crafts, Extension Division,
City College, New York City, and au-
thor of Craft Workit.

0 Note from Program Editor: Miss Sil-
bert is a craft Specialist and knows
what she's talking about. As a layman
whase scissor wark never gat much be-
yand the paper-doll stage, may I add,
however, that this book is sa fascinat-
ing | baught myself a persanal c0py,

even though we have the book in the
NRA library.

   
   
   
   
 
 
  
    
 
  
   
   
  
 
  
   
  
   
 
 
 

Singing Games and Dances *

David S. McIntosh, Editor. Assacia-
tion Press, 291 Broadway, New York 7.
Pp. 110. $3.00.

Leaders of children and young peopl
would do well to include in their reper-
toirc some of the traditional games and
dances which are part of our heritage.

Although such activity might no
have been labeled “social recreation"
many years ago, it was truly social in
nature with drama, humor and Oppor
tunities to “shine.” The material w:
collected mainly from Southern llli-
nois, but the book is not too regional.
and would be enjoyed by young pe0pl
anywhere.

The author has arranged his materia
according to formations: for example,
single circlc games, contra or longways
double circle, squarc sets and lil'lplt
cireles. He has also indicated the age
group for which each game or dance
is best suited. The descriptions art
clear, and none are too complicated o
dillicult. .

It is particularly useful for leader
who do not have a piano or record play
er as standard equipment, because th
tuncs can be sung as the game or dam”
is performed. Playground leaders. es
pecially, should have this book, for we
need more dancing and singing in our
summer programs. Almost all the ma-
terial is new; you will not find it in
other books.-——llelcn M. Dannccy.

Katherine F. Barker Memorial Secre-
tary for Women. and Girls, NRA. I

RECREATION

Recreation Leadership Courses

Sponsored by the National Recreation Association
and

Local Recreation Agencies

April, May and June, 1957

HELEN LL I_)AUNCEY Sherman, Texas Mrs. Ralph Day, Assistant Professor of Physical Education, Austin
Social Recreation AW” 8'11 COIlegc
and r . . .
. 3 ork Pennsylvania Mrs. Sylvia C Newcomhe York Recreation Commission
I ,r, 1 o - a a
I la) ground Recreation June 1748 32 w. ng
Lancaster, Pennsylvania Albert E. Reese, Director of Recreation, 135 N. Lime

June 19 and 20

University of New Hampshire Miss Patricia L. Olkkonen, Recreation Specialist
Durham, New Hampshire

.1 unc 24-27

[{u'ru G, EHLERS New York City Miss Maxine Keith. Executive Director, Girls Club of America, lue.,
social Recreation April 1 130 Maple Street, Springfield, Massachusetts
Playgrggtlld Recreation iigtyegfg’ermont Mrs. A. O. Brungardt, Vermont Director of Recreation, Montpelier
Kingsport, Tennessee W. (i. Mcllorris, Director of Recreation
May 20-23
Reading, Pennsylvania John W. Wise, Director, Recreation Board of Berks County, Court
June 5-7 llouse
Toledo, Ohio Arthur (J. Morse, Division of Recreation, 214-18 Safety Building
.1 une 10-13
Pittslield, Massachusetts Vincent J. Hebert. Superintendent, Department of Parks and Rec-
June 17-20 reation, 874 North Street
GRACE \VALKER Fort Wayne, Indiana Mrs. Anne B. Hogan, Consultant, Psychiatric Social Work, United
Creative Recreation April 4 and 5 Chest-Council, 2021/; W. Wayne Street
‘ Youngstown, Ohio Miss Sally Davis, 1202 East lndianola Avenue
May 18
Montgomery, Alabama William L. Brannon, 1001 Tuscaloosa Street
June 4-8
Great Falls, Montana Miss Margaret Bueher, Director of Education, Montana Farmers
June 10-23 Union, Box 2089
FRANK A, STAPLES Toledo, Ohio Arthur G. Morse, Division of Recreation, 214-18 Safety Building
Arts and Crafts June 10'1‘3
Altoona, Pennsylvania Stuart E. Nolan, Assistant Superintendent of Recreation, Park
June 15 and Recreation Board

Attendance at training courses conducted by National Recreation Association leaders is usually open to all who wish to attend.
For details as to location of the institute, contents of the course, registration procedure, and the like, communicate with the sponsor
of the course as listed above.

Miss Dauncey will conduct recreation leadership courses for the United States Air Force in Europe April 22 through May 31.

Miss Walker will attend the Northland Recreation Leaders Laboratory in Minnesota, April 24 through May 2.

Mr. Staples will conduct arts and crafts courses at air bases in the following areas beginning April lst. For further information
write directly to the Air Force Regional Representatives listed:

April 1-18 Southwest Area Raymond C. Morrison, 248 Casa Blanca, Fort Worth, Texas
April 22-26 Pacific Northwest Area Iloward Beresford, 3055 Bellaire, Denver 7, Colorado
April 29-May 9 Pacific Southwest A rca Linus L. Burk, 1345 Lincoln Avenue, San Rafael, California

May 13-Junc 6 Midwest Area llowartl Beresford, 3055 Bellaire, Denver 7, Colorado

June is National Recreation Mont}

for everybod);

Tell your community about it

Hold open house at parks and centers

 

Otter new adventures in recreation

m'n—r ZJCO-< r-r-)> m<—r-

 

For suggestions write
NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION 1; Wm 81h Sire-cl.  Y. I]. N.

