i.-

   
  

l'VI he, HIIIH H‘-

39.1.- _

.._.--

    
    

 

-|-m-I-

FEB 7 "‘ 1958

NAHMMI. "Irvin-“1 arm I.. n .' o “Hun” :H' . w,

 

Craft Weaving

Braiding and Crocheting
makes

* POT HOLDERS * RUGS * MATS

0 Available In 20 beaulilul
colors . . . also varigaled

 

for information and prices, write

HOME CRAFTS COMPANY

BOX 352 '26 KERNERSVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA

CHANGE OF ADDRESS

If you are planning to move, notify us at least thirty
days before the date of the issue with which it is to take
effect, if possible, in order to receive your magazines
without interruption. Send both your old and new ad-
dresses by letter, card or post office form 225 to:

SUBSCRIPTION DEPARTMENT

 

"The Choice of Those Who Play The Game” RECREATION MAGAZINE
The MocGregor Co. - Cincinnati 32, Ohio 8 WEST EIGHTH STREET

FOOTBALL - BASEBALL - BASKETBALL - oou - TENNIS NEW YORK 11, N. Y.

The post oHice will not forward copies unless you pro-
vide extra postage. Duplicate copies cannot be sent.

 

The day it arrives boys and girls of all
shapes, sizes and ages miraculously
appear from every direction. Children
love the thrill of bouncing and flying
through the air on a Trampolinc.

And they like thc fact that the basic
jumps are so easily mastered. They're
experts in no timc at all.

Trampolining is good for them, too.
Provides excellent all-around condi-
.tioning exercise. It's the favorite new
recreational activity at camps, Y’s
community centers, schools, and

playgrounds.

Nissen Trampolines bounce better
longer. Are sturdily constructed
to take it and last. There’s a model
and size to fit your needs at a
price to fit your budget.

.-

AND IF IT ISN’T A N IT ISN’T A TRAMPOLINE“

See your sporting goods deoler or write to—

NISSEN TRAMPOLINE COMPANY
200 A Ave. N. W., Cedar Rapids, Iowa

*Reg: U.S. Pot. Off.

 

."
-"'"".
r '—
_,—_
W—
_ _.—
:.
_-

J

j "_._..__="'="'f. -=:==—""."’: 2:-
_ ExpEar Om 
4:.-- Instructional 
- " Records {OF-T

 SQUARE DANBES 
COUPLE DANBES 

1|;-   for o

— I '
m
- __
W __
-—l-
e

“
‘—
_.z-I'

Musrc ran nope smmc

_ bull bouncing 
E 11-"?th written instructions

IE —'_"="r_' — _.Lt—ira—L— *-

»—_I-_
_f

- Folk Dances
:-:Singing Games .1
,_ - Play Party Games “

._ FOR CHILDREN:

_pre-kindergorien cw:—
ihrough 3rd gradeg

.0
5-

.
a
'-

SQUARE DANCE ASSOCIATES
BOX 644, FREEPORT, N. Y.

Mail coupon for FREE descriptive brochure.

Z
O
3
a

Q n
o 3'
a ~c

AMERICA'S FINEST ATHLETIC BALLS

NEW YORK 11
CHICAGO ll

FOR EVERY AGE GROUP,
PRICE 0R SKILL—

I.OS ANGELES I]

at last a way to  \
. K \
srur tumor mourn

PECSOLITE 

GYM MATS

only PECSOLITE has

10 TIMES GREATER SHOCK ABSORPTION

. . . lOWEST RATE OF REBOUND

A new development in gymnasium
protection, Pecsolite provides un-
equalled safety . . . actual tests
showing that Pecsolite absorbs 10
times more shock than ordinary
mats . . . couples this superior
shock absorption with a much
lower rate of rebound to completely
cushion impact and lessen shock

and injury.

- 10 Times Greater Shock Absorption
- Lowest Rate of Rebound

- Size No Problem: mats available in any
length, any width to 36"

0 Easy to Combine: transparent tape hotds
smaller mats together . . . allows for any
combination

0 Stores Compactly: takes Up half the space
of conventional mats

 

   
     
   
 

r, .a ""

- No "Elephant Greases" When Rolled Up

- Durable: new coating formuia provides sur-
face strength of 2400 P.S.t.

- Sanitary: moisture resistance prevents
transfer of infection

- Completely Odorless

- Easy Maintenance: wipe of a rag and mat
is clean

See Your PecsoIite Deafer now, or write for brochure and prices to:

m—n‘h _ _.— __—._

 

'-—-—-—-—-—-
)
a
a
w
l.
M
on

P)  EQUIPMENT CO. Third and Market st. Sunbury, Pa.

 

Fennonnt 1958

When writing in our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

33

 

} OPERATION WILDLIFE is a January
4th Saturday Evening Post article on
conservation by Corey Ford and James
Perkins. It tells the story of the new
conservation agreement signed in Wash-
ington a year ago by Under Secretary,
now Secretary, of the Air Force, James
H. Douglas and the Fish and Wildlife
Service of the Department of the In-
terior. Voluntarily, with one historic
stroke of the pen, the Air Force com-
mitted all the vast land on its one hun-
dred and fifty-three installations in the
United States and Alaska—a total of
26,000 square miles, bigger than all our
federal wildlife refuges combined—to a
comprehensive program of soil and tim-
her and game management.

} A FEDERAL BILL RELATED TO ALL OF
THE ARTS, H.R. 3541, is now under con-
sideration and is of immediate interest
to artists and craftsmen. Introduced by
the Honorable Frank Thompson (D-
NJ.) , it is “to provide for the establish-
ment of a Federal Advisory Commission
on the Arts.” This means all of the arts.
The bill is coming up for vote soon, after
being studied hy a special subcommit-
tee. If you feel that federal recognition
and encouragement in this field would
be valuable, write your congressman, or
to Representative Thompson.

) HI NEIGHBORl—lf you did not send
to the United States Committee for
UNICEF last spring, for their program
kit of fun around the world under this
title, do so now! Use it for your Broth-
erhood W eel: Program—February 16 to
23. This material is being used in
schools, recreation departments, and by
organizations. There are small charges
for some of it. For further information,
write to the Committee at the United N a-
tions, New York.

) POSSIBLE CHANGES IN THE LAW re-
garding disposition of surplus federal
property are the suhject of correspond-
ence with the Department of Health,
Education and Welfare, on the part of
a number of social service organizations
in cooperation with the Social Welfare
Assembly. They are encouraging the
department to make legislative recom-
mendations to the proper congressio’nal

34

committee for broadening the distribu-
tion of this property. Until now, dis-
cussion of recommended phraseology
for legislative revision was limited to
“voluntary nonprofit welfare agencies.”
At the suggestion of the National Recre-
ation Association, this wording has heen
changed in two respects to:

1. Voluntary nonprofit and recreation
agencies.

2. Tax-supported welfare and recrea-
tion agencies.

If these suggestions should be eventu-
ally incorporated into the law, federal
surplus prOperty would then be avail-
able for all local tax-supported recrea-
tion and park agencies.

) TIIE TENTH ANNUAL OBSERVATION of
Mental Health Week will take place
April 27—May 3, 1958, under the direc-
tion of the National Association for
Mental Health, which co-sponsors the
event annually with the National Insti-
tute of Mental Health, US. Department
of Health, Education and Welfare. The
theme will be, “With Your Helpf‘the
Mentally Ill Can Come Back,” stressing
the hopeful outlook for mentally sick
people, as well as the need for citizen
action in their behalf.

) ERRATA: On page 17, in our January

issue under “People in the Recreation ..

News,” R. S. (Robert) Miller, who is '

receiving,a National Recreation Associ-
ation citation, is from Troy, Ohio (not

Troy, New York). Apologies to Mr. M il-
ler and to Troy, Ohio!

) ON THE CAMPUS: Nancy Ann Fergu-
son never did get to Mexico, as an-
nounced on page 381 of the December
RECREATION. The project helow the bor-
der lined up differently, therefore, with
Richard Blackham from Staten Island

acting as recreation representative. Four
Americans attended the eighteen-week
study-work course, representing the
fields of recreation, health, and educa-
tion. An article prepared hy one of the
students appears in this issue of REC-
REATION, on page 41 under the title,
“Recreation or Tortillas?”

} THOUGHTFUL CITIZENS ARE FIGIITING
to keep the new network of superhigh-

 
  
 
    
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
   
   
  

ways, being constructed with taXpayer'
money, free of billboard advertising
both for beauty and safety. Unless fed
eral legislation prevents it, both sides 0
the proposed 41,000 miles will he line
with such advertising. The Senate Pub
lic Works Committee voted to pigeon
hole Senate Bill 963 for billboard con
trol, but the issue is not yet dead. R
consideration can be given the bill, i
the people demand it.

Anyone with pen and ink can help i
this hattle: Write your own senators an
congressmen. If you have previous]
done so, do it again. Congressmen ar
addressed, House Oflice Building, Wash
ington, D. C.

I» A NEw SERVICE Is ANNOUNCED b
American Youth Hostels, to fill the need
for expanding service to recreation and
youth groups who plan to make trip
abroad, but have had no previous exper-
ience along these lines. AYH, from its
twenty-four years of experience, is giv-
ing special attention to this problem so
that recreation or group leaders who
are organizing their own groups for
trips abroad can receive assistance.

In return for organizing a group of
eight to ten people, a leader can receive
his own' expenses—including food, lodg-
ing, transportation, and, sometimes. in-
cidentals.

The costs of these trips is unbeliev-
ably low, even though AYH plans the
itinerary, books accommodations at
youth hostels, student centers, and in-
ternational houses, purchases transpor—
tation, and so on.

For further information write AYH.
Travel Department, 14 West 8th Street.
New York 11. A colorful travel folder.

and poster will he sent free. upon re-
quest.

) NATIONAL WILDLIFE WEEK. March
16 to 22, is sponsored by the National
Wildlife Federation and its state affili-
ates. Walt Disney, creator and producer
of—among other things—the “True
Life Adventure Series,” is national
chairman. The 1958 thcme will stress
the need for conserving public lands—-
parks and forests. wildlife, wilderness
areas, grazing and mineral lands. The
protcction and proper management of
these areas is a matter of utmost can-
cern to conservationists and all people
of the country, particularly the millions
who enjoy their recreation benefits.

) SPORTS AND PHYSICAL FITNESS boom
in Russia, according to a 24-page arti-
cle, “A New Look at the Soviet Union,”
by Jerry Cooke, in the December 2nd
issue of Sports Illustrated. A universal

eight-hour day in the U.S.S.R. leaves
people considerable leisure time. I

RECREATION

FEBRUARY 1958

 

Editor in Chief, JOSEPH PRENDERGAST
Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON
Business Manager, ALFRED H. WILSON

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Recreation Administration, GEORGE BUTLER
Program Activities, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

 

VOL. Ll. Price 50 Cents NO. 2

 

0n the Cover ,.

AMERICA’S FAVORITE WINTER SPORT! A
check of 1956 Recreation and Park Yearbook figures
shows that more cities, and more individuals, par-
ticipated in ice skating than in any other outdoor
winter activity. Because of this sport’s popularity,
-nIany communities are now installing artificial ice
rinks or experimenting with various types; see p.50.
Photo courtesy Sun Valley News Bureau.

|
Next Month

In blustery March, thoughts turn toward summer
planning. The March issue, therefore, will carry a
camping section, as well as materials on other sub-
jects. It will include articles 011 such topics as
evaluating the camp program, church camping, sail-
ling. photography’s place in the camp program, and
so on. Administrators will not want to miss Chase
llanInIond’s “Fees and Charges for Municipal
Parks,” and the latest article on open-space en-
croachment, “Relationship of Highway and Recrea-
tion Planning.”

Photo Credits

Page 42 (left). TonI Neel, Ft. Lauderdale, Fla.;
{right and p. 43, left), Cene Hyde Associates, Inc.,
Ft. Lauderdale, F'la.; 48 (bottom left and p. 49, top) .
Westchester County (N.Y.) Publishers, Inc..; (top
l-eft, bottom right, and p. 49, bottom), Crest Photo-
graphers. White Plains, N.Y.; 47, courtesy New
York Herald Tribune; 50-51, LeCros, Brookfield.

, 111.; 54. courtesy U. S. Department of the Army.

RECREATION is published monthly except July and
August by the National Recreation Association, a service
organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 8
West Eighth Street, New York 11, New York. is on
file in public libraries and is indexed in the Readert’
Guide. Subscriptions 34.00 a year. Canadian and for-
eign subscription rate 34.50. Re-entered as second-class
matter April 25, 1950, at the Post Office in New York,
New York under Act of March 3. 1879. Acceptance
for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in
Section 1103, Acr of Quote: 3, 1917, authorized Ma]
1, 1924. Microfilms of current issues available Uni-

versity Microfilm, 313 N. First Street. Ann Arbor,
Michigan.

Space RepreterrtativerzMark Minahan. 185 North Wa-
bash Avenue, Chicago 1, Illinois: Seymour A. Rob-
bins 8t Associates. 101 West 55th Street, New York 19.
New York: Thompson and Clark, 681 Market Street.
| San Francisco 5. and 6000 Sunset Boulevard, Holly-
wood 28, California.

Copyright, 1958. by the
National Recreation Association, Incorporated

Printed in the U.S.A. 
'1.” lo 

’ Trade mark regiStered in U. S. Patent OEce.

FEBRUARY 1958

 

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

CONTENTS

GENERAL FEATURES

The “Forgotten” Teen-Agar (Editorial) . .Rolph J. Andrews 36
Recreation or Tortillas? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Lawrence J. thm 40

Public Relations Through Slide Narrations R. H. Abernethy 4-4

Services for Senior Citizens . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
ADJIINISTRATION

Bahia Maw—A Marina . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42

Are Hot Rods Rcally “'IIol”? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43

lee Skating on Plastic . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . William H. Radke 50

Notes for the Administrator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
PROGRANI

The Real Needs of Teen-Agers . . . . . . . . . . . Barry C. Lowes 53

A “Special” Services Program . . . . . . . . . . . Stephen Fowler 54

St. Patrick’s Day Shenanigans . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56

Ilot Rods and Recreation . . . . . . . . . . . . .Edword L. Erieson 57

Archery-Golf, A Winter Sport . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58

REGULAR FEATURES

Things You Should Know . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
Letters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Reporter's Notebook . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
Personnel—Applied Imagination (A Review)
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . W. C. Sutherland 59
—-—A Rcerniting Idea . . . . . . . . . . . John D. Zerbe 59
MarkctNews . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..60
Hospital Capsules—The NP Hospital Patient and
Organized Recreation (A Review) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6]
Books and Pamphlets Rceeivcd, Magazine Articles . . . . . . . . 62
New Publications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
Inch of Advertisers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64

Recreation Leadership Training Courses . . . . Inside Back Cover

NRA I958 District Conference Schedule . . . . Inside Back Cover

0
O)

e
“Forgntten”
Teen-Agar

Does he need correction
---—or planned recreation?

 

Ralph J. Andrews

THE FORGOTTEN TEEN-ACER is the clean, quiet, studious one
-—the young person who is diligently acquiring the pre-
cepts of good citizenship, often with inadequate opportun-
ity for this type of learning experience. He may find, also,
a disgraceful shortage of good adult examples after which
to pattern his efforts. This type of teen-ager is in the
vast majority. He has arrived at the age of reason, and is
not yet handicapped with the biases and prejudices that he
will acquire as he grows older. He is, therefore, more
amenable to logic and wise guidance in social behavior.
Opportunity to choose such guidance for himself should be
offered him in terms of teen-weighted reason and teen-
understood values.

This same tcen-ager must face and overcome the prob-
lems of his own age—and, at the same time, those problems
created by the adult in whose world he lives. Since he has
very little opportunity to set standards or to formulate rules
of operation, it is not surprising that at times he is rebellious
or resists the imposition of rules for which he can see no
reason and which he was not allowed to assist in formulat-
ing. He notes, that under similar circumstances, resistance
and rebellion on the part of his elders is approved and even
recorded in the history of his country as heroic action.
Those of his forebears who would not allow their dignity
as men nor their rights as individuals to be presumed upon
were responsihle for the very illegal Boston Tea Party!

Much too much has already been written about the minor-
ity group of teen-agers known as juvenile delinquents. These
unhappy youngsters are greater problems to themselves than
they are to those who have publicized them so well. When
they are helped to become “whole” and erase those failures
that have led to their being branded as delinquents, they
not only cease to be societal problems but also become of
more genuine worth to themselves. This process is aided
and facilitated when delinquency-prone teen-agers are led
to understand that undesirable societal behavior is an ex-

MR. ANDREWS is director of the North Carolina Recreation
Commission, Raleigh, North Carolina.

26

Editorial

pensive way in which to gain recognition and is, in fact, an
admission of inadequacy. N o matter how difficult the path,
this will be avoided by all who have the fortitude and ability
to achieve recognition through society-approved channels.

Good citizenship is success! Less than that is failure in
some degree. Since conditions are not the same for every-
one, success is a greater personal achievement for one than
‘it is for another. The greater the degree of difficulty over-
come, the greater and more lasting is the sense of personal
satisfaction and knowledge of earned personal worth. Thus,
when this is fully understood, the rewards are even greater
to one who was delinquency-prone or classified as a juve-
nile delinquent.

When the proper perspective can be gained, much of the
battle is won. We have not been concerned, often enough,
with attitudes. We have been too prone to preach and re-
proach and too little inclined to minister and to mend. We
have been inclined to expend efforts to salvage and recoup
rather than to serve and to save. '

Progress in the public attitude of intelligent responsibility
is noted. We have achieved the “ambulance-providing stage”
of the story of the town that had, within its boundaries a
dangerous cliff. The city fathers met in solemn conplave
and voted funds for an ambulance to stand by at the foot of
the cliff so that it could rush to the hospital the unfortunate
youngsters who fell off the cliff. Later, a fence was built at
the top of the cliff, superviscd recreation was provided, and
the unneeded ambulance was sold to buy bats and balls and
to employ a crafts instructor.

It remains to be seen how many ambulances we will pro-
vide before we start building fences through more adequate
preventive services. Planned recreation for all ages, but
especially for teen-agers, can function as one of these pre-
ventive services. In games and sports, music and art, when
they are participated in for the satisfaction of creativity
(and in the many other areas of planned recreation as well),
there is the opportunity to achieve. Out of the success of
these activities are formed the habits and attitudes of suc-
cessful living.

Planned recreation is the opportunity for the more com-
plete life. It makes constructive use of leisure and provides
a desirable end to the quest of people which, otherwise,
might result in what we call juvenile delinquency and adult
crime. Money used for planned recreation helps to reduce
society’s costs for mental hospitals, alcoholic rehabilitation
centers, and correctional institutions. It is money invested
therefore and not, merely, expended. And there is a bonus
which, at the “ambulance providing stage,” may not be
given much weight but which, sometime, may be recog-
nized as more important, even, than rehabilitation or cor-
rection. It is the savings in normal, productive, happy
human resources that wise use of leisure, through planned
recreation, can help bring. I

chnns'rmv

 
    

BASKETBALL
STEEL CHAIN
NETS

3 Years Guarantesl
outdoors or Indoors

Also featuring Jayfro's custom built

- J NYLON BASKETBALL NETS a BALL CARRIERS
J ALUMINUM MULTi-PURPOSE STANDARDS
J TETHERBALL POLES s PADDLE SETS

J ALUMINUM SHUFFLEBOARD SETS

0 Send for Free Catalog 0

JAYFRO ATHLETIC SUPPLY CO.
Dept. R, Box 1065, NEW LONDON, CONN.

NEW AND IMPROVED I I o . Shuulehourd
R YA N ’ S H . & R . ,£23.:..‘;°:E?t.l:2‘§.L';2;‘?:.';°.J;‘"5211?..1133; Fun For Everyone!

quoIity bolls. lnstoll this ottroctive, cost-cutting From 8 *0 80 he" . . .
. Is exciting recrea-
DRY LINE MARKERS TFT TobIe TennIs BoIl Meter NOWI “on {or all ages . . _ keen onioymo”

.5 DIFFERENT MODELS L d FREE ' .bl ' no 00 for players and spectators.
- eose O res ons e o encIes on .
From 20# '0 100# COPOC'TY p I 9 Rugged, Dimco FreeGIide Shuffle-

 

 

       

 

 

   
  
 

Forte Fsed -- Instant deposit subject to refund. Trouble-free Operotion b d ,l H f b h
Shim)“ "" 5° “"- ‘0' ossured—return mochine for FREE repoir. Attroc- do“ 53": :1" Mia's" or or 0* om-
thy‘ tive hard wood ond metoI cabinet—7V2 at 89’: x 15 00' on J" oor ms 3 3 Ion:
ENR" if::l“°i’l”' Tc" inches high. Eosy to instoII. Holds 120 boIIs— Easy To "15”" ' ' ' '0" '" upkeep'
mum" W' dispenses eoch for 10¢. Choice of 3 grodes Of Write today for colorfer folder, "Let's
“imam, Como. 0,, top quolity bolls. Use profit to mointoin ond re- Play Shameboar ,” containing com-
Handle. I pIoce poddIes, nets, etc. No risk guorontee. Send plate information on com? layout and
SAVES TIME AND for free folder: "Stop Wosting Their Time." eqmpmem-
MATERIAL .l. I: TWARDZIK 8' co 7 7 DIMCO-GRAY COMPANY
SdtDt.bekI f h d] 00 0
cn 0 ep or 00 or on our or er mo e s magnum r 205 EAST SIXTH STREET
H. 8. R. MFG. CO., LOS ANGELES 34, CALIF.   DAYTON 2. 

    

H I W
"° VOGEL-PETERSON
CONSIDERED ‘ _ 
by cooperative publisher who offers suthors eerly '
publication, higher royalty, national distribution, eod
beautilully designed books. All subjects welcomed.
_ . Write. or send your manuscript directly.
Flnal Vlctory GREENWICH BOOK PUBLISiHERS
over cancer will come from Attn. Mr. Hllilh033c$ork n, N183OF fth Avenue

 

the research laboratory. But _______

there are victories today.
Keep ’em SINGING

Many cancers can be cured
with these all-time favorite

when detected early and
SONG SLIDES

treated promptly. Vigilance
wonderful hours of fun for

       
     
     
     
   
      

is the key to this victory.

CUSTll-[INE
zé'mm Hll and can RACKS

Tailored to tit any 'ven 0 en or closetted wall
area. Smart in des gn an modern in "clear",
“gold” dee etched anodized finishes and com-

COUld mean View 1'37 Over can“ ” ” ‘ 7 slide binations. uality buiit—closed-end aluminum
f 2 x 2 sl'des 5¢/ tubing. rigidly held in cast aluminum brackets
Ger 01‘ YOU- 31/." x 4” slides soc/slide that are adjustable for height in dovetailed

There are seven signals
which might mean cancer.

|
Vigilance in heeding them young ond Old alike
I

mountin extrusions. Brackets also adjustable
to any esired centers.

3 BASIC SH ELVES

WRITE FOR CATOLOGUE 5

NATIONAL STUDIOS

42 West 48th Street
New York 36, N. Y.

JUdson 2-1926

1. Unusual bleeding or discharge.
2. A lump or thickening in the
breast or elsewhere. 3. A sore
that does not heal. 4. Change in
bowel or bladder habits.
5. Hoarseness or cough. 6. Indi-
gestion or difficulty in swallow-

ing. 7. Change in a wart or mole.
3- Hal of will"! "pull!" osred cest slumlntlm cost

If your signal IaStS longer than shelves tor stacked tlers hooks.

two weeks, go to your doctor to FOLK DANCE GUIDE . tween-relate.
8th Annual Edition, 1958
Contents: “Folk Dance in the United States;" Dance

Through the Ages (outstanding quotations); National
Dlrectory of instructlon Groups; Calendar of Annual

 
   
  
  

1. Het shelves with
henoer her tor ccet
hangers.

2. Hot shelves wlth stag-

 

learn if it means cancer.

AMERICAN | Events; Selected Bibliography. 30 pp. ($1.00 per WEI“ for Blind!“ CL 515
copy). Order from
I CANCER FOLK DANCE GUIDE V O G E L - P E TE R S O N C O .
| SOCIETY ® Dept- R. 30! 342: Cooper Station: New York 3 1121 w. 37th Street - Chicago 9, Illinois

 

 

FEBRUARY 1958 When writing to our advertisers picasc mention RECREATION. 37

  
   

 

RR

R...

I: "‘K‘

“H‘-
M

  

‘1‘

6/119 to your
HEART FUND

Watch for April 2mm“
Special Playground issue. Q

digitalis?

      
     

  

 

Readers! You are invited to send letters for this page

to Editor, RECREATION, 8 West Eighth Street, New
York II—so that your ideas, opinions and attitudes
may be exchanged with others on the wide range of
subjects of concern to us all. Here is your chance to
agree or disagree with the authors of our articles.
Keep letters brief—not more than 250 words.

Encroachment

Sirs:

I read Walter Blucher’s editorial
(“Let’s Save Our Recreation Lands,”
RECREATION, June 1957), with great
interest. Miss Donaldson’s forceful
article (“The Loss of Local Park Lands
to Highway Planning”) brings into
dramatic relief the problem of high-
ways versus parks, and I will be glad
to see that it is brought to the attention
of our editorial people.

With my personal congratulation for
your excellent and serious treatment of

 

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING

RATES: Words in regular type $.15 each
Words in boldface type $.25 each
Minimum ad accepted 

COPY: Type—or clearly print—your message and the address ‘to which you wish

. . $3.00

DEADLINES: Copy must be received by
the fifth of the month preceding date of
the issue in which ad is desired.

replies sent. Underline any words you want to appear in boldface type.

Send copy with remittance to:
RECREATION Classified Advertising, 8 West Eighth Street, New York 11, New York.

 

HELP WANTED

Mr. Kent Urton, Secretary,
Bellflower Park, Recreation
and Parkway District #11
of Los Angcles County,
California, is accepting
writte 11 applications for
position of Park and Rec-
reation District Superin-
tendent. Minimum starting
salary, $525.00 per month.
Applicants should include
in their letters, statements
of education, including
schools attended and
courses taken, and past em-
ployment, including duties
performed and salaries
earned. Address your ap-
plications on your own sta-
tionery to Kent Urton, Sec-
retary, Bellflower P a r k ,

Recreation and Parkway
District #11, 9729 East

Flower Avenue, Bellflower,
California.

Activities Supervisor.

College degree in recrea-
tion or physical education
desired. Experience in a
municipal recreation de-
partment or other related
areas helpful. Salary range
$340-$427. Responsibilities
include direction of various
recreational programs.
Prefer women candidates.
Write .Personnel Director,
Municipal Building, Beul-
der, Colorado.

n————

Occupational and Recre-
ational Therapists for
4,500-bed modern progres-
sive mental hospital. Occup.
Ther. must be registered or
eligible for registry Amer-

ican Occup. Ther. Assn.
Recr. Ther. must be grad-
uate recognized college
with major Recreation or
Recreation Therapy with
supervised field work. Start
at $376; annual increases.
Civil Service. Three wks.
paid vacation; sick leave;
11 paid holidays. Fine rec-
reational area. 66 miles
east of Los Angeles. Write
Supt. Patton, State Hospi-
tal, Patton, California.

POSITION WANTED

Recreation Therapist or
Leader —Recent M.A. de-
gree in Hospital Recrea-
tion; experienced in recre-
ation work with children
and adults; rehabilitation
oriented. Ellcn Alpert, 929
E. 18th St., Brooklyn, N.Y.

The publisher assumes no responsibility for services or items advertised here.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

——The Editors.

this important aspect of our America
life.

ANDREW HElSKELL, Life Magazine,
Rockefeller Center, New York 20.

Let’s Get Together

Sirs:

The November issue of RECREATION:
contained two stimulating articles.
Harold Williams, in “An Outsider
Looks at Recreation,” challenged recre-
ation practitioners to “get together on
a realistic and up-to-date statement on
the aims of the recreation movement.”
Robert D. Carpenter, in “Regional Rec-
reation Perspectives,” agrees. He be-
lieves, “Recreation needs a new and ex-
panded philosophy,” and states that
“the thirty-four-year-old standards of
NRA should be revised, consistent with
recreation requirements of a future
way of life that is rapidly overtaking
us.” Both writers are outside the recre-
ation profession. Each makes a strong
case that cannot be ignored by the pro-
fession.

The recreation movement is in some-
what the same position as that of our
country in regard to the intercontinen-
tal missile race. We must move fast if
we are going to move at all.

Both Williams and Carpenter did
more than tell us what we need. They.
gave us good, solid reasons, some ex-
cellent directions and suggestions 0
how to do it. Let’s do get togetheil
under the leadership of NRA and work
on it.

ARTHUR E. TODD, Chief, Recreation

Branch, H q. United States Air Forces

in Europe, A P0 633, New York.

Letter to Hal

Dear Hal [Williams] :

You know I thought that old myth
about thc ostrich sticking his head in
the sand, under the impression that he
was hiding, while his behind stood up
like the Mattcrhorn on the horizon, wal
dead and buried. It was the first thing
I thought of when I saw the title of

RECREATION

our top-flight article, “An Outsider
oks at Recreation,” in the November
ue of RECREATION. If ever two men
re high priests of the Sanhedrin in
ccreational creative thinking, it’s you

nd that guy, (Sherwood) Gates (“The

y’ of Recreation,” RECREATION,

ebruary 1957).

It was such a joy to have expressed
I tter than I could do it, things which

know many of our (NRA) district
epresentatives, including myself, have
5 en hammering at recreation execu-
ives for many years. I particularly
'ked your “Do we not have a right to
xpcct. ?” (and, of course, the
nswer is a vehement “yes”) and the
all for new appraisals. . . . I like your
ir-shirt guy. I have known a few,
lost of them women though, who were
lcrt and sensitive to the exciting p0-
: ntials in the redevelopment of recrea-
‘01]. Please write some more chal-
enges. Lord knows, we need them!

J. W. FAUST, NRA District Represen-

[ative (retired) .

Correspondence Club

irs:

ln keeping with our belief that rec-
eation must be more than handing a
hild a bat and a ball, we are includ-
'ng, as a part of our program, a corre-
pondence club with youngsters of
other parts of the world, both here and
abroad.

We fecl that, with recreation as a
common meeting ground, youngsters of
all races and backgrounds can reach a
level of understanding that would be
virtually impossible on any other basis.
Such a club can perhaps do its small
part in helping these young people to
comprehend and appreciate a larger
part of the world which they will in-
hcrit.

W e would very much appreciate it if
you would send us addresses of recre-
ation agencies in foreign countries and
other parts of our own country. It
would also be most helpful if you would
publish an announcement in your na-
tional magazine. We will then contact
those agencies and try to set up an ex-
change of correspondence. The letters
will come to our district oflicc and will
be opened at the regular meeting.

The club will be supervised by Mar-
jorie Stoddard, a member of our staff.
and all further correspondence should
be addressed to her.

DANIEL R. FURMAN, District Super-

intendent, Downey Park, Recreation

:9: Parkway District, Downey, Calif-

ornia.

Hospital Recreation

Sirs:

I find the newsletter (NRA Associate

Membership Letter) most informative.

FEBRUARY 1958

However, I find that very little space in
newsletter or in the magazine RECREA-
TION for hospital recreation.

There are so few of us in Florida and
removed from district workshops, it
would be helpful to have more sug-
gestions from hospital recrcation pro-
grams.

Mas. HARRIETT PARKER JOHNSON,
NRA Associate Member, 1709 Pasa-

denda Drive, Dunedin, Florida.

0 We would like it if more hospital
recreation workers would subscribe to
RECREATION so that we might be able
to carry more pages and thus have
space for additional material! Actu-
ally, we have been carrying more and
more material of interest to this group.
See “Recreation, Medicine and the Hu-
manities" and "HOSpital Capsules" in
the December, 1957 issue of RECREA-
TION, “New Vistas in Recreation for
Patients" and "Rhythm Groups in Re-
habilitation"I in the September, l957
issue.—Ed.

Sincere Appreciation

Dear Mr. Prendergast:

We were most pleased that you were
able to be on the program of the Amer-
ican Municipal Association’s annual
Congress in San Francisco (December,
1957). You did a magnificent job of
keynoting the recreational and cultural

responsibilities of cities. Your provoc-
ative and stimulating address was ex-

ceptionally well received. . . .

PATRICK H EALY, JIL, Exccu tive Direc-
tor, American Municipal Association,

Washington 6, D. C.

  

TTZOVOCZHP
‘ FOLDING
BANQUET

TABLES

     
 
   
 
        
       
      

    

Direct Factory
Prices 8. Discounts
To Churches. Clubs.
Lodgos. Schools
and All Organiza-
{IONI-

t)rer 46,000 in-
stitutiona own
and use maulgrn
Monroe Folding
Banquet Tables.

Write for the new
MONROE 50TH
ANNIVERSARY
CATALOG of
Folding Tables,
Folding Chairs,
Trucks. Movable
l’amtigns. Foid— NH __
mg 1391's. c e. _

Get our special prices, 3 
quantlty discounts. also terms.

Monroe Co.. 181 Church St.. Colfax. Iowa

 
     
   
  

  
    
      
     
   
       
     
 

AND
MONROE TRUCKS

 
    
 
   

’ PLAYGROUND
Jamlsunmumm

Bo tare to rhnrk the n-‘anv anew”?! foolurr‘s r'
this rugged w. While for its analog of 254
items.

Jot-n ion N" Jo. "' ‘ "' Co \in
378 Sou” Mutt n  ".
[03 Anon: Cc ton

use catalog. I
I nntlonn I-

S-pm 6mm
I 370 NORTH MARQUEITE. POND DU Ut. WIS.

Superior tables can be stored compactly, can be
opened for play in a jilly . . . even rolled

away on wheels by a youngster. Sturdy, rigid
Superior MTlOOO Table has edge-protecting
METAL FRAME AND TUBULAR STEEL
LEGS, HEAVY DOUBLE HARDWARE

0N LEGS. Thousands used by playgrounds,

1 9*

Roll-away casters
make it easy to
clear your floors.

Optional
Feature!

camps, schools, military installations . . .
wherever a heavy duty table is needed.

POPULARLY PRICED! APPROVED BY US'I'I‘A.

Write for literature showing complete line
of institutional table tennis tables.

1' mousrmes CORPORATION

665 Barry Street. New York 69, N.Y.

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 39

THE LITTLE village of Opopeo,

Mexico, has a population some-
where between three and four thousand
persons; and there, we are trying to
introduce a program of recreation.
This is part of a UNESCO project to
help raise the living standards of
peOple in underdeveloped rural areas.

Census takers are discouraged by the
dogs, which almost outnumber the
citizens here and by the lies of the
many people trying to keep their chil-
dren out of school so that they can
work. Over ninety per cent of the in-
habitants are illiterate.(The school en-
rollment is less than fifty per cent of
the school-age children. There are
neither classrooms nor teachers for the
rest, and classes extend only through
th sixth gradg

“The average worker’s wage is about
sixty American cents per day. The
people work their tiny farms in this
mountain village with a team of oxen
and a wooden plow, not knowing how
to improve their poor methods nor
havin the means to do so, even if they
knew3The farmers raise almost noth-
ing but eorn here and are afraid to ex-
periment with new crops because a fail-
ure would bring even more miserable
conditions to already difficult lives.

Where does recreation fit into such
a setting?(Why does UNESCO con-
cern itself with bringing recreation to
these pe0ple who seem to have much
more immediate needs?) It is indeed
a crcdit to the planners of these
UNESCO projects that, alongside of
rural economy, health, home life, and
general culture, they have placed rec-
reation as e of-the basic elements of
fundamental education. Fundamental
education, very briefly, is that kind of
education which seeks to impart im-
proved hasic living techniqiies to
people in underdeveloped areas, to
raise their standard of living.

In spite of the people’s glaring phys-
ical needs in these underdeveloped
areas, recreation is not considered here,
primarily, for its mental and physical
therapy values, its role as an education-

al or economic tool, or any of its other

 

MR. SUHM is now working on his
master’s at the University of Wisconsin,

having completed his UNESCO project.
40

 

many by-products. It is considered
first as recreation in the sense of being
voluntary, engaged in during leisure
time, and producing pleasure. It is
recognized that these elements must be
maintained and jealously protected in
order to preserve the special quality
that is recreation, and which is so im-
portant to human living.

But just how important can recrea-
tion really be to the person-who must
get up at dawn to work his fields and
who arrives at his house at sunset to
find just a few tortillas and beans for
supper? W hen he goes to bed he sleeps
on a straw mat on a dirt floor and in
his clothes to keep warm. He stays close
to the hearth consisting of three bricks
on the floor. Most of his children have
no shoes; some run literally naked in
the streets. When they get sick, he does
his best to cure them with local herbs
or patent medicines. The advice of the
doctor and his expensive medicines
He
would like to learn to read or, at least.
sign his name but in the evenings he is
too tired from his work to be able to
concentrate in the literacy classes.

might cost a month’s earnings.

Again, where docs recreation fit into
this average citizen’s life?

The following examples might serve
to answer this question. In Opopeo.
many of the streets are impassable, even
with an oxcart——-but the town has an

Recreation
or Tortillas?

This is almost an either/or

situation, in Mexico.

Lawrence L. Sulnn

asphalt basketball court. There is a
great lack of classroom space in thell
school but the citizens are building a
social center. The captain of one of
the soccer teams told me his shirt was
worn out and he had no money to buy
another while, just the week before, his
team had been discussing how to buy
soccer uniforms. The town dancers gen-
erally dress very poorly, but their dance
costumes are of rich material and elab-
orately decorated. There is a lack of .
water for the flower garden in front of

   
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 

the school.
Recreation does, then, seem to be im-
portant to these pcople, sometimes to
the exclusion of common sense. To the
casual observer, these are simply ex-
amples of misplaced values. On closer
examination, however, one might see
that these pe0ple are striving, in their
own way. to bring a little beauty, en-
joyment, and pleasure into otherwise
barren and difficult lives. To the per--
son trained in recreation and assigned
the task of helping people to raise their
living standards, the foregoing ex-
amples have interesting implications;
They indicate the possibilities of dircct-l
ing the natural recreation interests of
these people to hclp the total life of the
individual and the community.*

*A similar development is under way in
India. See “Social Education in India,” REC-
REATION, October 1956, p. 373.

pvnbnnmrn

 

Basketball in Opopeo—these players bring pleasure to barren lives.

Recreation literature contains count-
less illustrations of the values and uses
of recreation techniques and activities
in human welfare. We have used many
of these and perhaps invented some
new ones. A few examples might give
a small idea of the role of recreation in
a program of fundamental education.
In an adaptation of the play, Romeo
and Juliet, in one of the villages, simple
lessons on hygiene, poultry raising,
literacy, and thriftiness were given.
Over three hundred spectators thor-
oughly enjoyed the famous play while
painlessly learning. A lecture on any
one of these subjects would not have
drawn a dozen pe0ple. A simple hand-
puppet play can produce the same ef-
fects. Puppet theater is used extensive-
ly here, because it can be done inex-
pensively and simply.

Recently a simple adaptation of the
popular game Scrabble was introduced
to the Opopeo literacy classes. We
painted the letters on bottle caps and
used checkerboards in place of the
more complicated type. Where ordi-
nary classroom techniques would not
awaken interest, such a game can be
the necessary stimulus. Another tech-
nique in literacy teaching we are using
is to write the words of a well-known
song on the blackboard and then con-
duct group singing. This is basically

FEBRUARY 1958

recreation, but it also helps people
learn to read.

The introduction of square dancing
to a group of school children in the
village of Casas Blancas taught coor-
dination and rhythm but a full hour
was needed just teaching the group
how to skip. Other dance classes have
helped to eliminate a profound self-
consciousness and timidity, common to
these people.

Our social center room for the chil-
dren was plagued by thefts of marbles,
dice. paints, brushes, and other small
items until we had the members elect,
for the first time in thcir lives, their
own officers and set a certain sun] for
monthly dues to pay for the supplies
and equipment. From this start, the
children formed a club, named it, wrote
a constitution, and named a committee
of vigilance. There are no more thcfts;
the children are making their own mar-
hles out of clay for the Chinese check-
ers; certain members are assigned to
sweep the room each day; and the club
is almost completely run by the chil-
dren. These children consequently learn
democratic values from their play ex-
periences.

Recreation can also do much to al-
leviate the tremendous economic prob-
lems constantly present in these under-
developed communities. The women of

Opopeo have always done a great deal
of knitting, crocheting, and needle-
work in their free hours. Markets have
now been found for these products to
supplement the family income. Pro-
ceeds from fund-raising bazaars have
bought medicines for the health cen-
ters, books for the libraries, equipment
for sports programs, and many other
essential items.

For many years, Opopeo and its little
neighboring village of Casas Blancas
have been feuding over land rights.
Not too many years ago, there were
open-war gun battles in the streets.
Recreation has helped largely to break
down the barriers by introducing vol-
leyhall tournaments and soccer games
between the two towns. There were not
enough musicians in either town to
form an orchestra, so they combined
their talent. The two villages combined
forces again to compete in the state
soccer tournament; and now, for the
first time, they have formed a joint
committee to bring water to the two
rival villages.

These few cases can perhaps give a
small idea of the kind of role that rec-
reation might play in the devel0pment
of a rural community. There are cer-
tainly other areas in which recreation
can be a vital factor in improving under-
developed communities. Our failures
are always more numerous than our
successes, in the work of fundamental
education. We are still experimenting
with some things; others we have not
even thought of as yet.

When one considers the thousands
of Opopeos there are in the world, the
[ask of helping these people to find a
decent standard of living seems hope-
less. However, if one can make a man
laugh and smile in the face of hunger,
or see him enjoy a game of volleyball
when there is no h0pe of seeing any-
thing at home on the dinner table, or
watch a child dancing and forgetting
how it hurts not to wear shoes, or hear
the young people singing in the rain at
night, on a street corner, unmindful of
the cold discomfort, then you know
that it is worth the effort. I

Brotherhood Week
February 15-23

     

41

" a:
t i 5' "
I I
t In
a
.
k 3
8 ak‘
. t '
u
.v , 5 4r ,- .~
“if I!" . ‘1

Air photo of Bahia Mar

 

     

shows excellent mooring space and
accommodations. Note its closeness to ocean (lower right).

dock facilities.

 

.1

This shot, of ice being hauled to the boats, gives closeup of
Laundry and groceries are also delivered.

Bahia - Mar - in Marina

Communities considering the construction of a ma-
rina can learn much from those that are established.

 
 

Ar THE PRESENT time, marinas
under construction or in the
planning stage represent fifty million

dollars in public or private funds. The
investment of these vast funds is based

"Ha- ‘- ‘... _ _
.—-———.——....—...—- Hm_—-

on the conviction that” pleasure boat-

’ing, like the family car, is firmly estab-
lished as i “WEI life f6)er Ameri-

._._« ._—. _.__.

 

1——' 'uvvu ——

can faliiilyi,” as a formggf family

“rm—i" i—i

, ._,__....... .._.._.v_ ‘

 

recre-

 

 

,stipp...
/ Tinted States Coast Guard statistics,
I released for the first quarter of 1957,
indicate a national increase of over
401,000 registered boats. This alone
justifies the need for dockage, storage,
and repair facilities. A facility com-
bining these services is a marina—and
the more complete, the more diversified
its services, the greater its popularity.
Delegates to the 1957 Recreation
Congress were able to inspect the new
modern marina in Long Beach, Cali-
fornia. Delegates to the 1958 Congress
in Atlantic City, New Jersey, will see
its recently dedicated marina, to be
completed by 1960.*
.’ _#Fort Lauderdale, Florida, for in-
l stance, has one of the largest, most ele-
gant boat marinas in the world. Built

 

--—

*Scc “Nautical Elbow Room,” RECREA-
TION, hovember 1957, p. 323 and also “The
Modern Marina,” RECREATION, February
1956, p. 80.

an

1

 
  
 
 
 

at a cost of $2,500,000, and accommo-
dating over four hundred boats of all
sizes and types, it is operated under the
direct supervision of the city parks and
recreation department.

At Bahia Mar, the city strives to pro-

1—“ _

 

 

- v-—-* -— -_....

vide a good cross section of services.

Fw—an-a

'Theiseuin—cludewt‘ele‘phones and a post of-

fice for communicationz rent-a-car and

bus service for transportation, a weather

rah?.._____-v—-—-— ——--*-—r-—_r_-—-——-—-—-"—

. _s_tat1o1__1 as_ navigation aidLa food stoge

and two restaurants2 a barber shop,

._.__..' .._..__

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

r, __.. _.

beauty, salon“, 311d, ‘o_tl_1_e_r__ slippswin Tag
shopping area surrounded by docks. A

- '-——-—_- u...— _._,_. 1..-___.___

 

 

 

complete marine IRQEEe store, a serv-
ice dock for oil, gas, and ice, and a
fully equipped repair yard, for major
and maintenance work, have been in-
stalled to service the boats.

Twenty-seven acres of partially sub;

,__.._._..
. “av-v 1-.— ._-—.-—-

merged land were the basis for the de-

51gn1ng an __ pannl g of Bahia Mar.
Une-thiH—was bulkheaded and _filled,r_‘

_ __._.._._ --_ 
EVE -__q,_____._.-—r . w—

 two-thiids dredged to provide ten
feet of water at all docks. Regardless

ofliavailablglland, t1; proportion of a
one-third service area and two-thirds

 

 

 

leisure or private area seems most prac-
tical. In this two-thirds area, there are
three and two-fifths miles of concrete
docks to accommodate 450 boats.

The marina is governed by a code of

" "~-—.

 

.-—-—.__._.__.

—-—--1-r-' '

ordinances for good business operation,

uni-n.— ._ ____,,

and all employees-Take great pride in

_,_,.._.....

 

 

 

mamtaining good public relations with

A“ u-cr

the yachtsmen. With its over_-all_,opera-

_ -—--u
- .-—-—--——

 

tion coming under the supervision of

- - Mn—w—q-

 

r-._......-—-

the-department of parks andqlrecreatlon,

___ _._......'.-.-.v u,-

 

_. .r-a—r— .r—v «uh-

the marina staff works‘glgsely with the

...._.. _..._.—_...—H- -- o
.

Recreatlon division. Biweekly golf tour-
nExBEHté ‘Shd lget-togethers are held at
the Fort Lauderdale Country Club”—
also under the jurisdiction of the parks
and recreation board. Each Thursday
afternoon a card party, for women only,
is held at the city’s main recreation
building. Women, in particular, like to
get off the boats for a while, having had

enough of the cramped quarters aboard.

    
   
   
   
  
 
 
 

Free movies are provided for all
every Tuesday evening; this has been
one of the most popular features of the.
past winter season. Another popular
feature is the shipwreck party held at
the peak of the season. “gaming and
games are planned; prizes for the best
costumes attract old and young alike.

During thegsummer months about on

Pan—r... .

hundred boats are moored. Slvjmmin

_- .4.- ..— ._.1.._.

and—"diving classes are held at the mu-
hibipal pool for the children aboard.
Wednesday and Friday evenings are re-
served for the parents, who like to take

a cool dip before retiring. Recreatio

F..—r-

 

 

 

 

menu'nn

 

 

: lays an important_part in the over-all

Hh __

 

v, '_.——----r-

ape-ration of Bahia Mar and is _a_ must,

 

in planning a marina.
When speJEirER—rTa-creation you can-
ot forget the captains and crews. At
allia Mar, they have their own organi-
ation, known as the Bahia Mar Marine
Association. A set of bylaws is enforced
y its over eight hundred members. The
op floor of the main recreation build-
ing serves as their combination meet-
ing place, lounge, and private club. At-
endance is limited to members only,
and, during the season, their dances
. nd parties are second to none.

During the 1949-59 Topeningseason,

..__.- —-—-...—-~_._.—=- —‘—'—
u. "'n- ___.. .

RHEESJLaimd (ledge.qu Bahia. Mar-
Since themahasheen a. tenper cent

. a.-........._-.:—

anayal increases-and. dating, the past

- -_..u__...—.—-y.q._-—-'

year fifteen bungliqu were logged

- feather and trafHe-eontrol tower has meteorology instruments
nd short-wave radio, directs boats, issues storm warnings.

..._— -..— -_-""

 

Commercial boats number thirty-
three and include an excellent charter-
boat. fleet of twenty-six, plus seven sight-
seeing passenger boats. During the sea-
son — December, January, February,
March, and April—a conservative count
indicates about eight hundred people
living aboard their boats.

Itlhas bcen demonstrated that a well-

--...—_....-...—._

planned and. ppqnate_J*ma;u-ina will 
hance surrounding [and glues, and“

 

r_.__.1__ _

millions have been spent on acreage ad-_

___, ——----.—u---'—-'——'---.

*H....

joining Bahia  A marina also has

a definite impact on the economy 91;;

_ . . m
vai—H'- T'—

 

--.-— -—

 

personnel and revenue [0 the 

'v'w

municipality, whggwith empl_oyment 0L

 

._._—_.-—-
1r -._..__.'—.. 1.

through (lockage. visitors, andsomu

HrTAfdfaeility with gross earnings of
$412,000, with an operating cost ex-

clusive of bond indebtedness of $250,-

 

 

- .. " - |.

Annual shipwreck party is a recreation: event for owners and
crews. The social activities help bring boats to the marina.

000, in association with lessees doing a
two-lnillion-dollar annual business, is
big business. Two
marinas are opening in Fort Lauder-
dale this winter. Boating and yachting
today do not belong to only the retired
few or the occasional “old salt.”

Bahia Mar has encouraged waterfront
living,hincreased property'values, and
attractedboataninded citizens. Accord-
ing to Coast Guard estimates, over five
thousand registered boats are located
in that area during the season. Approx-
imately nine hundred and fifty people
are cmployed in the boatyards. The
economic value placed on yachtsmen

using that facility is cstimated at 33,--
500,000 annually. BahianMar is_p_roof

—

that a marina is sound recreation—and

new commercial

_—.--a— 1- - -

sound business. I

\- ‘9 \- I.

Are llot Rods Really ".liot” ?

At the last NRA New England Recre-

ation Conference,law enforcement agen-
cies gave their opinions on drag races,
hot rods, “squirrels,” organized and
unorganizcd hot rods. Bernard Thomp-
son, chief of police of Rockland, *
Maine, and John DeWinter, director of
I trallic safety, Maine State Police, serv-
ed on a discussion panel.

The Maine State Police will not en-
courage hot-rod clubs, but once such a
club is formed will assist it in any pos-
sible way. Mr. DeWinter’s department

* See p. 57 for Rockland “hot-rod” amt)?-

FEBRUARY 1958

makes films available, and men on his
staff meet with groups upon request to
discuss the rules governing highway
safety and all its ramifications. Mr.
Thompson, in his capacity as a commu-
nity law enforcement oHicial, has as-
sisted hot-rod groups in many ways, but
does not encourage their formation.
Both ofiicials felt it important to dis-
tinguish well-organized hot-rod clubs
from those whose main interests are
speed and races only. Such groups are
called “squirrels” and give legitimate.
well-organized, and conscientious clubs

an unfavorable name. Neither man felt
that disguising the name “hot rod” was
a good idea. Hot-rod clubs must gain
their reputation for good or bad by
using the accepted nomenclature.

The officials were not against drag
races if they are held in designated
areas and under responsible leadership.

It was pointed out that the ingrained
\merican love of speed in our young
people must be rccognized, and assist-
ance given them, wherever and whcn-
ever possible, so that it can become an
attrihute rather than a menace. I

43

 

Public Relations

Through Slide Narratiom

 

R. H. Abernathy

HE PUBLIC generally accepts recreation, religion, and ed-

ucation as worth while and essential to good living. But
the facts illustrating the phiIOSOphy of the recreation pro-
fession are least known among the‘three. A public relations
program revealing the purpose of this vast field is desperately
needed. Until a national and /or state fountainhead is es-
tablished, each of us must accept our share.

Speak it! Live it, broadcast it—not for professional fad-
vancement, not for personal gain, but for the welfare of
people. The basic purpose of your life, as a recreation work-
er, is helping your fellow man find richness in living from
refreshing, leisure-time activities. Recreation administrators
are constantly called upon to speak about their profession.

There is a way to improve, to say everything exactly as
you want to say it; that is, using “slide narrations.” If a
picture is worth ten thousand words, a picture, with words
and music, should be worth considerably more. Though the
idea is not new, tape-recorded slide narrations have proved
an excellent form of presentation.

Here in Oxnard we are making a series of stories. Thus
far, we have made three: “The City Story,” describing the
importance of planning ahead and illustrating civic prog-
ress; “The USO Story,” pointing out the value of the USO
to servicemen and the community; and the “Story of Parks
and Recreation.” The last is designed to illustrate the com-
plex and diversified picture of recreation. It covers the
philosophy of the profession, its basic purposes, methods,
processes, and intended results. Its purpose is to create a
community awareness for, and recognition of, the impor-
tance of recreation as part of civic government. The next
production, now being assembled, will be a training story
for recreation leaders, park department crew, and other stafir
members showing how-to, how-not-to, and why.

In preparing such a story, the script is written as a brief
colorful description of the picture. A picture should not re-
main on the screen for more than thirty seconds. The auto-
matic slide pack holds thirty-six pictures. With greeting and
introduction the total program should last about fifteen
or twenty minutes.

The pictures, 35mm colored slides, are selected to fit into
the narration or vice versa. You may already have some

MR. ABERNE'I‘HY is superintendent of parks and recreation
in Oxnard, California,

44

 

How to Prepare and Use Your Stor

shots that fit the script and can be used; others are taken f0
specific placement in the narration. Avoid using pictures yo
like just because they are pretty. They should be interestin

fit the story, and be action shots, if possible. For exampl

if the narration describes a handcraft program, a close-up 0
two or three children busily working on a project is better
than a shot of the group holding the finished products.

Assuming that you have written the script, have all 0
pictures, and are now ready to put your narration on tape;
the next st0p is the selection of the correct background musid
to fit the various production themes. The program music
should open with a lively fanfare and then, with reduced
volume, lead into the first picture. W hen the narration starts
the music should be barely audible. When the narratioi
stops and the next picture appears the volume is raised mot
mentarily, until narration begins again.

Producing the tape requires a little practice, but a tape re«
corder, a high-fidelity phonograph, some good records, and
a quiet room—where outside noises, such as telephone bells‘
auto horns, and conversation, will not interfere—are all tha'

    
 
 
  
   
  
   
 
 
   
  
   
  
  
 

is necessary. Make yourself comfortable and arrange you
equipment so that everything is within reach without stretch
ing or getting up. The microphone should be placed nea
the narrator so that it will pick up either music or voic
without being moved. Speak in a softly modulated voic
avoiding a monotonous singsong.

If you are playing the role of technician as well as na
rator, the hi-fi records and tape recorder should be withi
easy reach so that records can be changed and volume co
trols and switches can be quickly manipulated. Your scri
should be placed where you can read it easily and can tur
pages without rustling them. (Use a soft-texture paper.)
is best to have a good technician and narrator working wi
you or, if you are the producer type, you will need bot
However, it is exciting to put on a one-man show. '

Some of the technical refinements can only be acquire
through experience: stopping and starting the tape betwee
sequences so that there are no gaps or switch noises on t
tape; adjusting volume to maintain music and voice mod
lation at a constant level throughout, so there are no shar
highs and lows as the themes change; making erasures whe
the inevitable mistakes occur; and splicing in correction

Now, assuming you have completed your program an
have practiced running through it so that you will know whe

RECREATIO

o snap in each slidc as the narration progresses, you are
‘eady to present your baby to the public. It is a real thrill to
it back with the rest of the audience, turn on the switches
nd enjoy the program without saying a word. Your speech

illustrated with beautiful colored slides; you have back-
round music by some of the best orchestras in the country;
nd your story is put over, point by point, rising to a climax
vithout one referral to notes! You’ll be nervous, but you
rill know that everything is going to be all right. The uses
i this technique are practically unlimited.

Segment of the Reereation Story

   
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
  
  
   
 
 
  
  
   
   
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
   
 
  
 
 

SLIDE 1: George Hjelte, LP Music: Cinerama Section #3.
M.C.: This is the story of community recreation. It is dedi-
cated to George Hjelte, general manager of the Los Angeles
Recreation and Parks Department, whose inspiration, wis-
dom, and guidance have immeasurably influenced the ad-
vancement of the recreation profession.

Music: Opening continues——

SLIDE 2: Storyteller with group of children.

M.C.: Make yourself comfortable and listen as the story of
the parks and recreation department describes the philoso‘
phy of the profession, its purpose, why it is an important
part of civic government, and how it contributes to the en-
richment of community life.

Music: Opening continues—-

SLIDE 3: Array of playground equipment.

M.C.: Of all divisions of city government, the parks and
recreation department is confronted with a staggering num-
ber of diversified functions. Here you see an array of play-
ground equipment. Bats, tennis and badminton racquets,
bascs, nets, balls of all descriptions, craft tools and supplies,
games, face masks and chest protectors, paddles for table
tennis, mallets for croquet, horseshoes, and what not. They
illustrate only a small segment of the vast amount of sup-
plies needed in meeting the spare-time needs of all pe0ple.
Music: Opening continues—-

SLIDE 4: Leader with group of boys.

M.C.: The most important commodity, the motivating force
behind the entire process of recreation, is leadership—for
without pe0ple who understand and believe in the phi-
losophy of recreation, it would be impossible to undertake
even one phase of the program. They are the pilots who
carry out the mission. Recreation, dedicated to people, is

completely dependent upon the help of dedicated people.
Music: The Halls of the Mountain King—45 RPM—Section

#2—

SLIDE 5: Crap Shooting—Smoking—Delinquent youths.
M.C.: It is often fancied that the recreation program is a
hocus-pocus cure-all for delinquency. The picture you
see is posed but the action is typical of an alarming number
of youths. This and more—for those who work with youths
I are, from time to time, exposed to cases of far more shocking
Inature. Recreation, wholesome activity, is frowned upon by
true delinquents for, though they know the laws of society,
they find rccognition through rebellion and seek attention by

opposing the normal standards of society, and so on. . . .
I‘ ‘I‘ ‘I‘ *

'FEBRUARY 1958

At present we are using an inexpensive camera, a projector
and simple manual-s1ide-changcr-pack and a Webster-Chi-
cago Tape Recorder. The hi-fi set is homemade, but good,
and our record collection includes The King and l, the
theme music of Victory at Sea, Medic, Dragnet, and many
collections of top-name orchestras, such as Mantovani, west-

erns, and some Special sound effects. Occasionally music
taken from FM-radio programs but this requires two ta
recorders.

is
pc

It is better to start with what you have and gradually ac-
quire equipment and develop techniques. In the meantime,
perhaps burning a little midnight oil may provide a satisfying

if

and rewarding bit of recreation for a recreation director,
he enjoys such puttering. l

“Out of personal integrity and a striving toward ob-
jectivity, there must come the ability to work well and
successfully with others—the kind of ability that
springs from an understanding of varying points of
view, a respect for the opinions of others, and facility
at finding a common meeting ground in helping man-
agement to deal with public opinion.”

—-From an address by DONALD K. DAVID, Dean, Har-
vard Graduate School of Business Administration, at

opening session of the Public Relations Society of
America, Sixth Annual Conference, Detroit, Michi-

gan, November 17, 1953.

‘,_____

 

So sensahonally betterare
they on every count—desrgn,
construction, quality.
durability and play-ability—
that Rawlings HERCULITE
Rubber-Covered Athletic Balls
have established a new high
standard. They're in a class
by themselves—they're . 

"I720 Finger In 7729 Field!

0 VOLLEY BALLS
o SOCCER BALLS

   

q
II

o IASKETBALLS
O IOOTIALLS

IAWLINGS SPORTING GOODS (0. 0 St. Louis 0 Los Angeles - Dallas 0 Chicago

45

  

I

 

 

Dr. Sal Prezioso, Scarsdale, New
York, superintendent of recreation for

Westchester County, has been appointed
chairman of the National Advisory
Committee on Recruitment, Training
and Placement of the National Recrea-
tion Association. Joseph Prendergast,
executive director of the National Rec-
reation Association, made the formal
announcement on January 13, at the As-
sociation’s headquarters in New York.

Dr. Prezioso succeeds Dr. Paul Doug-
lass, of Granville, New York, who served
as chairman for six years and who will
continue as consultant and adviser.

Sal Prezioso has held his present posi-

tion in Westchester County since Sep:
ten1ber, 1955. Formerly he was super-‘

intendent of recreation in Scarsdale,
served as a Navy lieutenant in World
War II, and was director of recreation
and employees’ activities for Rockefel-
ler Center, Incorporated. He holds a
master of arts degree from New York
University and doctor of education from
Columbia University. He is a past pres-
ident of the New York State Recreation
Society, and the New York Industrial
Recreation Directors Association, a
member of several national committees
of the American Recreation Society, in-
cluding the Personnel Standards Com-
mittee, and other National Recreation
I\ssociation Committees.

46

Grace Walker Returns

Grace Walker, well-known drama
specialist of the National Recreation
Association, recently returned from
four months in the Netherlands. There
she conducted courses in creative drama
for leaders in recreation and youth or-
ganizations and gave lectures and lec-
ture recitals on the cultural activities of
America in colleges, profession al
schools, and the famous folk high
schools of adult education. Miss Walk-
er’s trip was sponsored by the U. S.
State Department upon the invitation
of Mrs. Hendrika Boersma-Smit, organ-
izer of youth activities for “Hervermde

Jeugdraad” of the Dutch Reformed
Church—tendered to Miss Walker

through the International Recreation
Association.

Delegates to the 1956 International
Recreation Congress in Philadelphia
will remember Mrs. BoersmaBSmit with
pleasure. She visited many recreation
departments while in this country and
spent some time in New York City. She
was most enthusiastic about recreation
in this part of the world and was espe-
cially interested. in Miss Walker’s pre-
sentations of the creative aspects of rec-
reation.

Behind the Red Ball

Researchers of the New York City
Park Department have tracked down
the origin of the red ball used to sig-
n'al that ponds‘are ready for skating.

According to Meyer Berger, colum-
nist in The New York Times, the re-
searchers say, “The inspiration came in
1862 in Prospect Park, Brooklyn. It
seems that when the ice was ready that
year officials looked around for some
public signal to announce conditions
safe for skaters. They sighted a tall
pole on a hill at the north end of the

park, and lying on the ground near by
were some red sighting disks . . . used
by surveyors on a job there. . . . Now.
instead of a fixed disk, they use the red
ball on a white flag because it’s simpler
to lower and hoist a flag than it is to
shinny up a pole. . . . ”

California Reereation Plan

A guiding committee composed of the
heads of California state departments
recently named Elmer Aldrich, former
supervisor of conservation of the Cali-
fornia Division of Beaches and Parks
in Sacramento, as executive officer for
the purpose of studying all of Califor-
nia’s outdoor recreation problems as
authorized in the 1957 session of the
state legislature. DeWitt Nelson, di-
rector of the California Department of
Natural Resources, is chairman of the
guiding committee for the three-year
study, to be known as the “Committee
for the Public Outdoor Recreation Plan
Act.” The study will:

0 Make an inventory of all outdoor rec-
reation facilities, including private ones
and those administered by federal
state, regional, and local agencies.

0 Make a determination of the pres-
ent needs and estimates for the foresee-
able future. Such estimates will be
made on population projections and the
rapid trends toward outdoor recreation.

0 Recommend to the legislature an in-
tegrated plan to guide legislation in the
develOpment of outdoor recreation fa-
cilities throughout the state.

Reimbursed by Highway
The Columbus, Ohio, Recreation De-

partment will be reimbursed for land
which is to be used as part of an ex-
pressway system, just as individual
property owners are; A number of Co-
lumbus baseball diamonds will be lost
because of the building of the new sys-
tem.

.-

The International Scene

A. W. B. van Baars, one of the Neth-

erlands members of the 1956 C00pera-
tive Community Exchange Project, has
written an article in the September 1957
I ULA Quarterly (published by the In-
ternational Union of Local Authorities
in the Netherlands) about “Municipal
Government and Recreation in Amer-

ica.”

RECREATION

Since recreation facilities are usually
responsibility of municipal govern-
lent, Mr. van Baars feels this fact in

  
 
   
   
   
  
 
 
   
   
  
 
  
  
   
   
 
  
 
  
   
   
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 

tself provides an impetus toward rec-
ation. Previously ignored groups,
I Cll as senior citizens, are becoming
. re active and, generally, all age
_ oups are participating in greater
-. tttbers and increasing enthusiasm.
e says: “This aspect of the social life
_II also become of greater interest in
,I rope in the very near future. Town
I _: nning executed in relation to the rec-
tion of the citizens constitutes the
undations that must now be laid.”
The author is secretary of the Cath-
- 'c Youth Council of the Netherlands.
5-. further reading he suggests the
tree standard works by George D. But-
r, NRA director of research: Intro-
'- ction to Community Recreation;
1 aygrounds: Their Administration and
t J eration; and Recreation Areas;

t {teir Design and Equipment.

I University-City Program

Columbia University and the New
. :- ork City Department of Parks joined
. rces to combat juvenile delinquency
+ the city’s South Harlem-Morning-
e Heights area with a baseball-soft-
ll program in which over a thousand
ungsters and teen-agers took part this
st summer, the first season of opera-

P

on.

'I The program was conducted at the

| I, 00,000 athletic field and field house
I mpleted last spring by Columbia. It

called the Columbia-Community Ath-

ic Field and is maintained by the city

I partment of parks.

“Sizzling Sixties”

Sixty-five is usually the end of the job
e for the working man, except for
ne outstanding instances. But this
a waste of manpower is not the story
the Panther Company of Fort Worth,
as: It encourages applications of
n past sixty.* A. B. Canning, com-
y president, prefers men between the
a. of forty-five and sixty-five, finding
_ 1n tnore serious, much less interested
. elusive get-rich-quick schemes, and
o more productive than younger men.
wever, the men must, of course, have

For further information on senior citizen
vities see “Services for Seniors,” p. 48.

BRUARY 1958

sales ability, business judgment, and
the desire to remain active.

One of the world’s largest manufac-
turers of a cold-process asphalt roofing
compound and othcr industrial pro-
ducts, Panther operates in all forty-eight
states and in sixty-seven foreign coun-
tries. There are  men betwecn sixty
and eighty on its rolls. This age group
is known as the “Sizzling Sixty” club.

Men in their fifties and sixties, wish-
ing to apply, may write Mr. Canning,
The Panther Company, P. O. Box 711,
Fort Worth, Texas.

Did I Make It?

    

These men are playing bocce at the
North Italian Recreation Center in
Brooklyn, New York. Once the ancient
sport of warrior athletes, bocce is now
the recreation (and passion!) of mid-
dle-age men of Italian ancestry.

More than half the fun of bocce lies
in the theatrically voluble comments on
the path, speed, and probable outcome
of the toss. After the ball has reached
its destination, close to or far from the
jack, the player inquires “Fatto?” (Did
I make it?) '

Bocce, pronounced either bahchee or
bocha, is a variant on bowling and had
its origins in ancient Greece. In New
York City, courts are maintained by
many private recreation clubs, the de-

partment of parks, which has sixty-six
scattered throughout the city, and

others.
Rules may be obtained from the Bocce

League of America, 322 North Cross
Street, Philadelphia.

India on \Vheels
India now boasts nine public roller
skating rinks, according to Skating
News. This marks a rapid advance of

the sport in that country sinceilndia
has only recently acknowledged' roller
skating as recreation for‘ the general
public. During the early 1940’s, when
American allied military personnel
were stationed throughout India, there
were temporary rollcr rinks constructed
for soldiers’ cnjoyment, but there were
no facilities for Indians. Now Delhi,
Simla, Mussorie, Naini Ta] and Darjeel-
ing boast rinks.

Importance of Open Space

A symposium 011 how to acquire and
maintain zop‘en space was recently held
when Fortune and the Architectural
Forum brought together a group of
nineteen experts for a two-day confer-
ence on “urban sprawl.” Participants
included consultants in’planning, mem-
bers of national attd regional planning
groups, experts in law, architecture,
conservation, and—recreation. Joseph
Prendergast of the National Recreation
Association represcnted the latter.

Major findings of this meeting are
prcsented in an article, “Urban
Sprawl,” by William H. \Vhyte, Jr., in
the January 1958 issue of Fortune. The
importance of the provision of' open
spaces for school and park sites is
stresscd throughout, and following up
on the idea that this may sound too ad-
vanced, Mr. Whth quotes the fifth
chapter of Isaiah, written some.twenty-
six hundred years ago: “Woe unto them
that join house to house, that lay field to
field, till there be no place that they
may be placcd alone midst of the
earth!”

 

In Memoriam

 

DR. EUGENE L. SWAN, psychiatrist
and authority on boys’ camping, died
in Boston in Decembcr. He was eighty-
two.

Dr. Swan was a mcmber of the Na-
tional Council of Boy Scouts of Amer-
ica, an editor of the first book on boys’
camping, Harper’s Book of Camping
and Scouting, published in 1909. He
himself was owner and director of Pine
Island Camp, in Belgrade Lakes,
Maine, one of the oldest private boys’
camps in the United States. The camp
is now directed by Eugene L. Swan, J r.,
author of “What Are Today’s Campers
Missing ? ” RECREATION, March, 1957. I

47

Service
for S©1Ulil01f°

Town , MORE THAN EVER, we can look forward to a lon
more active life. The future, then, holds the pror
of increasing numbers of senior citizens, those men

women over sixty-five. Already there is at least one sei
citizen in every family! Westchester County, New Y
has over sixty thousand residents aged sixty and over.

county recreation commission is, therefore, vitally ir
ested in this group and its problems.

 

Th S H Inc 1 o o o d 0 Last May, the commission filled the sports arena of
e oconyi o l .onipany tester senior citizens to eternuue . . . .
their ability to drive a car. Five perception tests were given. county centers m the heart 0f Whlte Plamsa Wlth ‘3 la

Results? Not one of those tested was deemed an unfit driver! scale Senior-ama, with displays of“anything and everythi
of interest to the golden agers and their families. For tl
days over seventy-five hundred residents viewed decor:
booths and demonstrations given by many industries,
reation, health, welfare, education, private, and pu

Westchester County offers senior citizens an active year-round agencies.

program. Here, hOSpital patients arrive at the County Center _ _ , _

to present their own original musical revue during an institute Governor Harrlman had deSlgnated May 35 selllor Cll

conducted by the county’s recreation commission last winter. Month and with this as an inspiration Mrs Selma Br,
- 7 . .   9 a , .

the commission’s supervisor of senior citizen activi
began to assemble a total of fifty-two exhibits, an orig
musical show by the seniors, a fashion parade of half-s
styles, and a “Conference on the Aging,” presented by
National Council of Jewish Women in cooperation with
Weslchester County Council of Social Agencies and
county recreation commission. The conference featl
round-table discusssions and practical workshops headet
the Honorable James D. Hopkins, county executive,
William A. Bruuifield, Jr., health commissioner, Dr. SE
Prezioso, superintendent of recreation, and R. Eug
Curry, chairman of the Citizens Committee on the Agii

 

Weaning techniques are demonstrated by Charlotte Kizer,
county supervisor of arts and crafts, as one of the many activ-
itics and interests that can develop into hobbies for seniors.

 

I“. RECREATION

'1.)

m'or Citizen. Month acts as spring-

rd for excellent county program.

Among the contributors to the Senior-ama, and through
to the field of aging, were American Airlines, with facts
out climatic conditions for retirement living, residence in
as where the American dollar stretches to normal size.
lthful living areas for those with chronic illnesses, and

eral travel information for the exciting use of leisure
urs. The Sonotone Corporation demonstrated to the senior
izen audience its many services for the hard-of-hearing,
, in a “drawing,” awarded to one of the visitors a much-
ded hearing aid. The Westchester County Nursing Homc
ociation illustrated its many facilities, rates, and pro-
ams. There were many exhibits put on by hobby manufac-
ers offering hundreds of suggested creative crafts for

ure fun. The Socony Mobil Oil Company offered free
iving-aptitude tests for the oldsters, and many leading
lustries, such as Consolidated Edison, Union Carbide and
rbon, and the Bell Telephone Company, took booths to
L ist the project financially, as well as show how they, too,
rc “improving with age.”
The Westchester County Department of Health offered
-- tests for tuberculosis, diabetes, and glaucoma and, as a
I sult, a sizable number of guests discovered important
,- ts about their health. Every home for the aged told its
:, ry, as did the numerous family service groups, the county
I u ne, the department of welfare, the adult education asso-
,_ tion. the public libraries, and the religious organizations
 u services for the aged blind. Through the New York
; 'Ite Employment Service, many seniors filled out applica-
l ms for part~time employment. In other booths, such things
r nutrition and special diets for specific illnesses were con-
? ered; and the more than twenty-seven active senior can-
ns of the county exhibited their craftwork. The county
_reation commission maintained a booth with pictures and
' nonstrations of their many programs and services related
aging problems.
On the show’s opening night, members of twelve golden
- clubs of the county took the stage of the Little Theatre
the County Center for their original musical, Old Faces
1957, playing to standing room only. The next after-
on, a half-sized fashion show was stagcd by a leading
yre, with models ranging in age from sixty-eight to eighty-
ne. Visitors to these included New York City senior
nteens and several Connecticut organizations.
The commission’s program is comparatively new, but it
slated as an “annual,” with unlimited possibilities for
ellent public relations and publicity. One result of last

r’s undertaking was that almost overnight—after the

FEBRUARY 1958

 

Grandma is given a little “glamour” by a Beauty City expert
at a booth devoted to hair styling, make-up, and modern hints
on good grooming. There was also a senior style show.

show closeanestchcster’s increased awareness of thc
growing problem of providing services for this age group
was illustrated by the number of volunteers who popped up
in all areas of the county—«one generation’s desire to help
another.

This three-day show is only a small segment of the county
recreation commission’s program. Mrs. Brody will continue
to plan off-season camping programs, holiday dances, hobby
and craft shows, leaders’ workshops, and month-by-month
supervision and guidance for the active canteens, and to
stimulate the growth of more activity in those areas where
it is most sorely needed.

“Proving that life is worth living at any age has been a
most stimulating field of endeavor for the members of our
staff,” stated Dr. Prezioso at the main conference for the
aging, “and we readily accept thc challenge to inspire these
seniors with young-in-heart programs and services in the
future.” I

In the midst of the Senior-arm: exhibits, Salvation Army
representatives arranged an informal “living room,” a much-
needed and appreciated haven for rest and refreshments.

 

49

 

Brookfield, Illinois, ex-

periments with a new

type of skating rink . . .

William H. Radke

On dedication night, the new ice rink is viewed by those persons and or-
ganization: representatives immediately concerned with its development.

Ice Skating on Plastic

Until last year the recreation department in Brooklield,
Illinois. had to decline requests for an outdoor ice skating
area because the fluctuating winter temperatures were too
erratic to have ice at a reasonable cost. Plastic fabricators,
however, have come up with a sheeting that will retain
water during thaw periods. By using this Brookfield en-
joyed thirty-two days of skating during last winter between
December 21 and February 20. The Brooklield Junior
Women’s Club made a determined effort to assist in this
project, both financially and by arranging for outside as-
sistance.

Installation costs could be said to include $725 for
plastic, obtained below market cost; $75 each for six Hood-
lights, which actually were donated, as was the electric wir-
ing estimated at $175 for the job. The Women’s Club,
through its ice-skating committee, raised $300, which it
turned over to the recreation board toward expenses of oper-
ation, and it also made arrangements for the installation of
a light pole, electric wiring, and floodlights.

All wiring and equipment were donated by the Pinner
Electric Company, the floodlights were donated by the Reyn-
olds Metals Company and the telephone company was instru-
mental in the pole placement. The ground was prepared for
skating use and rolled by Speidel Asphalt Company at no
charge. A berm was built around the area by village crews.
The recreation board approved the purchase of the plastic
liner, a single piece of plastic, .006 mils in thickness, to cover
the entire area. This was delivered and installed with the

MR. 111st is superintendent of recreation in Brook/53M.

50

 

help of the public works department, fire department, and
the Brooklield Women’s Club. Water was flooded into the
area by the fire department, and the entire project repre-
sented a community action of oustanding proportions.

The Gross School contributed $250 toward the mainte-
nance expense as it is co-owner of the plot. Expenditures as
of last‘May lst for personnel, including maintenance and
some supervision, amounted to $352.25 for the season. Ex-
penditures for equipment, such as the plastic liner, repair
material, screenings for berm, signs, electricity, snow shov-
els, and so on, amounted to $943.69, for a total of $1,295.94.
This, of course, does not include the value of material and
services donated. .

As a net result, the community had a 100’x200’ lightedl
skating area serving hundreds of village residents during the
cold months. There is no other community known south of
the Great Lakes having such a sizable facility.

We arrived at a four-inch pitch for the two-hundred foot
length by preparing the area in advance, striking a reason-
ably level grade, then rolling it, to eliminate sharp edges and
protrusions that injure the plastic. An agricultural lime-
stone berm was built* around the area to be Hooded, its
height corresponding to the variation in pitch of the rink.
About forty volunteers wcre on hand to help lay the plastic.
It was spread with due precautions and water immediately
flooded in, to keep it from billowing in the wind. The water
was added gradually allowing for frcezing between pour-
ings, until the required skating level was reached. A secon

 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 

* Experience has prompted the substitution of a wooden framework
for the berm this year.

Runnvrmn

.,
-i-f‘it

hove: The .006-mil plastie, carried on the bucket arm of a
ck hoe, is delivered by the public works crew. A two-ineh
)ipe had been inserted into the core of the rolled plastic and
ttached by chain to a second pipe to allow the plastic to be
eeled off in the Spreading operation. Hole in foreground is
or suetion intake to be used to pump water from the rink.
1'ater-retaining berm is made from agricultural limestone.

_ 1F
u"

' )00] is unrolled down center of rink. Plastic should not be
- Illed from the reel but turned free at spool, with baeking-np
achinery taking up the slack. The ten-foot folds are opened
rom the center into wind direction, with a helper stationed at
fteen-foot intervals to do it evenly. After first half is un-
olded and held to ground out of the wind, opened edge is
ised at a signal and the breeze filters under the plastic, lift-
g it up, completing the unfolding prOcess to cover area.

pplication of limestone was added to the berm to cover the
astic and add height for later floodings and resurfacing.
,1 Signs were displayed around the area, requesting the
I, katers to help protect the plastic and shovel snow. Snow
,, hovels were placed for the public’s use. Heavy snows were
andled by a local service-station operator with a snOWplow

  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  

’ho donated his services on such occasions.

lce was resurfaced once or twice weekly, usually on Mon-
y and Thursday nights, depending on weather conditions.
is was done between 9:30 and 10:30 P.M. using an old
rehose with a spray nozzle.

Brookfield learned the hard way that the plastic does be-
ome punctured by skate blades—either by accident or de-
gn, especially during warm periods. A .006-mil-thick plas-
c sheet is strong enough to repair with plastic tape. It will
e used again this winter.

I?“

ed

Two signs were erected at the area reading: Please pro-

he
0 ct your rink by:

1. Staying off when ice is soft or has water on the surface.
2. Not kicking holes in the ice.

3. Helping clean ice (shovels are available).

4. Skating slowly and carefully.

I0
311
n

 

 

Above: Water must be flooded in immediately as a gust of

wind might pick up and tear the light plastic sheet. After
area is partially flooded, it is allowed to freeze. Berm was
later covered with additional two inches of limestone satu-
rated with water and frozen hard to protect the plastic from
skate blades. Subsequent snows and shoveling add to layer.

5. Reminding others of the rules. Lights will be on from
5 P.M. to 10 RM. if ice is suitable for skating.

When skating ends, the plastic is lifted and stored in a
damp and dirty condition till summer weather permits dry-
ing, cleaning, and repairing under more favorable condi-
tions. Spring winds and rain make work of this type next
to impossible. Repair tape sticks better, too, when applied
at summer temperatures.

Such niceties as warming stations and skate-changing
houses were unobtainable on the budget, but the rink was
in a residential area, and attendance did not suffer appre-
ciably for lack of them. Park picnic benches were placed
in the area and used as seats for changing skates and rest-
ing. Old wooden cement forms were used as bench platforms
and as walks to the ice.

Public enjoyment and the outstanding cooperation of the
community made this a worth-while activity, and it will
therefore be repeated this season. I

“The community of the future will give as serious atten-
tion to recreation as to education-—for it is a major element
of education; as serious attention as to health—because it is '

w a major means to health. It will not let religion crowd out rec-
ur. reation, for in no small degree it is by playing together that
N we enter into mutual understanding and companionship.”

Mk ARTHUR E. MORGAN. The Community of the Future. 1957.

BRUARY 1958 51

 

for the

Administrator

NOTES

Open S pacc Tactics

A survey of procedures in fifteen cities of over 50,000
population, with reference to the financing of subdivision
improvements, has been made by the Wichita (Kansas) Re-
search and Information Department. Of the fifteen cities
replying to the survey, only four reported that donations of
land, a percentage of the total subdivision area ranging
from four to eight per cent, are required of the developer
for such community facilities as parks and schools. In-
dianapolis reimburses the developer by land purchased at
a negotiated price. Albuquerque has a provision that four
per cent of the land he provided by the developer for parks;
Fort Worth, an undisclosed amount for park purposes.

The findings in this study ran counter to those reported
following a 1955 Urban Land Institute Study of 115 cities.
This report revealed: a growing practice of requiring de-
velopers to provide community areas or public building sites
and schools; that a unit charge or flat fee per lot would
seem preferable to donations of a required percentage of
the total subdivision land area; that cities require from five
to ten per cent land donations and unit fees varying from

$10 to $300 per lot.

Effccts of Automation

The possible effects of automation on our economy, and
especially on traditional municipal services, are discussed
by Edwin S. Howell, city manager of Richmond, California,
in a recent issue of Public Management.*

He says that it is inevitable that increased leisure, coupled
with higher incomes, will produce a much greater demand
for city recreational services, and that the citizens of our
communities will want more parks and playgrounds, golf
courses, bowling alleys, fishing and boating facilities, swim-
ming pools, skating rinks, zoos, children’s ‘fairylands,’
libraries, art galleries, museums, handcraft and ‘do-it-your-
self’ workshops, auditoriums, theaters, concerts, dancing,
and other forms of leisure-time activities. Special facilities
will be needed for the aged, who will probably be faced with
the most serious problem of readjustment.

“In addition, people will spend more time traveling,” he
states. “This will impose upon city public works departments
responsibility of enlarging their programs of street mainte-
nance and construction and Working with state governments
to further develop their freeway and highway systems.

“Another factor to be considered is that the inactivity of
people may generate special problems for municipal public
safety agencies. Undoubtedly, police traffic divisions will
need additional manpower to control the swelling flow of
vehicular traflic. Patrol divisions may also have to be aug-
mented to ward off the possibility of rising crime rates.”

* “The Challenge of Automation for Cities,” July, 1957.
52

292 5.17. 2d 314 (Mo. App., Springfield, June 26, 1956.)

chal Notcs and Dccisions

The question of governmental versus proprietary functions
and their relationship to liability was discussed at length it
the Fcbruary 1956 issue of T he Municipality, issued by
the Wisconsin League of Municipalities. H. 0. Wolfe, vile
lage attorney of Shorewood, pointed out that, from the be
ginning of its statehood, a fundamental rule has been recog-
nized in Wisconsin, that municipalities, with specific excep-
tions, are not liable for damages arising from the acts 01
deeds of their officers, agents, and employees while they are
discharging governmental functions. Exceptions cited were:

“One important exception to the immunity rule . . . oc-
curs when the municipality creates a nuisance and the rela-
tionship between the municipality and the injured or dam-
aged party is not that of governor to governed. Ordinarily
there is no liability for damages resulting from its creation
and maintenance of a nuisance, as, for example, where a
child playing in a public park was drowned by falling in a
sewer negligently constructed and maintained by the city,i
or where a ball player, running the bases, tripped on an im-
bedded wire in a new ball diamond built and maintained by
the municipality,2 or where an injury was sustained by 4
child tobogganing in a public park, with the toboggan run-
ning into an abandoned quarry,3 or wherc an injury was susI

tained by a person enjoying the facilities of a defective swim
ming pool. . . . ” 4

“In the case of Robb v. Milwaukeef' however, recover
was allowed against the city under the nuisance theory b
cause the relationship between the city and the injured part
was not of governor and governed. The city maintained
playground on which was located a baseball diamond, wit
a public sidewalk adjacent to the field. The city was hel
liable for injuries sustained by a pedestrian walking on th
sidewalk who was struck by a batted ball, which carome
off thc top of the fence. The grounds upon which it was hel
liable was that the city, under the circumstances, was mai
taining a nuisance, and, although it was acting in a gover
mental capacity in maintaining the ficld, it was not actin
in such governmental capacity toward the plaintiff. It wa
in effect, stated in the decision that the situation of the plai
tiff, who was not using the playground when injured, is co
parable to that of an adjoining landowner who is injured by
nuisance created by the city, such as smoke and fumes fro
a city dump; and that the plaintiff was not availing herse
of the benefit of the instrumentality furnished by the city f
the general good, so that the relationship of governed an
governor did not exist between her and the city.”
SANITATION—POLLUTION or STREAM COMPENSABLE: In a
tion for damages to lower riparian owner caused by city
sewerage, held, city is liable even though it appropriate
right to dump sewage into water course in 1903 since nui
ance did not begin until 1952, hence statute of limitatio
did not bar action. Newman 2). City of El Dorado Spring

  
  
   
  
   
   
   
  
   
   
   
   
   
  

1 Erickson vs. West Salem, 205 Wis. 107.
2 Hoepner v. Eau Claire, 264- Wis. 608.
3 Poland v. Sheboygan, 251 Wis. 20.

4 Virovatz v. Cudahy, 211 Wis. 357.

5 24-] Wis. 4-32.

RFCRFATIO

The
Real Needs

of
Teen-Ages

as 55%

Barry C. Lowes

osr RECREATION directors realize the
M responsibility and the opportunity
thcy share with other community forces
in influencing the attitudes, behavior,
And most
communities have some sort of pro-

and habits of teen-agers.

gram for tecn-agers. Upon what are
these programs based? Is it proven
knowledge, theory, or the results of
trial and error?

"i The key to success, of course, is
leadership; but what sort of leader-
ship? There are many types of leaders
working with our teen-agers, but the
successful ones have certain things in
common. Skill is not the most impor-
tant factor. It is the ability to listen
with sympathy and to discuss teen-
agers’ problems with them on their own
level.

At our camp, one of the most success-

Iful counsellors has been a nonathletic

 

Reprinted by permission of the Com-
[munity Courier, published by the Com-
munity Programmes Branch, Depart-
ment of Education, Toronto, Ontario,
1Canada. MR. LOWES is a camp director.

EBRUARY 1958

 

medical student who could not swim a
stroke when he first came. When he
took his Junior lied Cross Swimming
test at the end of the summer, his whole
cabin group of athletically inclined six-
teen-year-olds was on hand to encour-
age him and share in the thrill of his
accomplishment. Even during the win-
ter months these boys keep in touch
with him. There have been many other
good lcaders in camp, fine athletes who
have been both popular and competent
counsellors. Why was this less skillful
leader so successful? The boys always
found him ready to talk to them about
the questions and problems constantly
creeping into their growing, searching
minds. He was the one person, they
felt, who wanted to understand them.
He had a pair of large sympathetic
ears, a broad general knowledge and
and he
could talk easily to the young pcople
about the things in which they were
interested.

background of eXperience,

And what are teen-agers interestedv

in? It may seem strange to some, but
my cxperience is that, best of all, they
like talk and discussion. 'Boys like to
discuss sports, girls, sex, school, jobs,
and philosophy. As budding women,
girls naturally never tire of talking
about clothes, boys, movie stars, sex,
school, and careers. And don’t jump
to the conclusion that all their talk is
frivolous. There are no bounds to their
interests; they are now beginning to
question the world they have been tak-
ing for granted. They need someone to
act unobtrusively as modcrator, to chal-
lenge sweeping generalities, to bring
them down to earth, and to introduce
new ideas. They need the stabilizing in-
fluence of maturity, not the smothering
wet blanket of rigid, adult attitudes.
There are, of course, other important
qualities of leadership; a sense of
humor, a fine example in behavior and
attitudes, a special skill, a sense of per-
spective in discipline, fairness in deal-
ing with people, and many others.
However, the leaders who maintain
the best relationship with their teen-
agers are the ones who are never too
busy to sit down to talk and to listen.

If I were running a teen club, I
would give high priority to a lounge
where teen-agers could meet and talk

and I would create opportunities for
both formal discussions and “bull ses-
sions.”

After talk and discussion, the things
teen-agers like next best are sports, dat-
ing, dancing, and joining clubs or
gangs. The clues to sound programs for
them lie in these secondary interests.

It is through informal games that
boys and girls can best make their first
social contacts. In activities such as
volleyball, badminton, and tcnnis they
have little fear of making embarrassing
faux pas; there is no need for the
bright small talk that worries so many
of them at dances. In this way, they
are spared the fear of rejection.

The vociferous minority, the socially
skillful, and the “steadies” will press
for social dancing as the only accept-
able activity for social gatherings. The
socially unsure and diffident will hang
back along the walls. We have succeed-
ed in overcoming this inertia and in
drawing the wallflowers into the circle
by introducing games, “mixers,”
square and folk dancing. But you can’t
run a whole evening of these fun-for-
everyone variations, or you will find
yourself all alone. We play a sure-fire
mixer like “winkum” or “bingo” and
then retire while the enthusiasm is at
its height. We find that as long as we
serve these ice-breakers in small doses
they never fail. Once your foot is in
the door, the youngstcrs will begin to
ask you for ideas for games and mix-
ers.
Another p0pular type of program is
the “theme” party. This might be a
masquerade, a crazy hat party, a comic
book party, or a college “prom”—
anything that will provide a theme for
decorations, costumes, games, and re-
freshments. A word of warning: if the
leaders do all the work, the teen-agers
will become a critical audience. If they
themselves become involved in the plan-
ning, decorating, serving, and leading
the games, they are less critical.

Disraeli once said that “youth is the
guardian of posterity” and our young
“guardians” need help and guidance.
The success of leaders trying to give
this guidance will depend on their in-
sight into the likes, dislikes, interests,
hopes, fears, attitudes, and behavior of
the teen-agers. I

53

 

 

Sports are among the activities conducted for the men

stationed in isolated air defense posts where a con-

stant, around-the-clock alert

WHEN YOU SPEAK of “special serv-

ices” in the Army you naturally
think of post libraries, service clubs,
crafts shops, theaters, and gymnasiums.
This is not so in the Army Air Defense
Command special services, for here ac-
tivities require new direction and em-
phasis because most ARADCOM batter-
ies are isolated posts and every battery
is on twenty-four hour call every day of
the year. Each battalion or group head-
quarters maintains a rotation system
that keeps a certain number of batteries
in a state of absolute alert. Therefore,
the ARADCOM special services pro-
gram is unique.

This doesn’t mean that each member
of an ARADCOM unit spends twenty-
four hours a day tensely hunched over
a radar screen; only a limited number
of personnel need be at battle stations

at any one time. When an ARADCOM

man goes off duty he may have a wide

MAJOR FOWLER is a special services of-
ficer in the Army Air Defense Command.

54

is often maintained.

choice of pastimes if the battery is locat-
ed in a small community or not too far
from a large city. On the other hand,
he may not have anything at all. As a
rule, a local community can offer these
men exceptionally good educational,
recreation, and athletic opportunities.
Therefore, the big problem of ARAD-
COM special services is to take care of
those men who live at the battery site
and those who are on duty.

Since ARADCOM units are normally
long distances from military posts, the
ARADCOM special services program
has to be initiated from scratch. Its
objectives are to ‘provide adequate rec-
reation facilities for all isolated units,
to promote a well-rounded morale and
welfare program, and to stimulate ac-
tivities, especially at battery level.

This may be broken down into several
sub-programs, such as those in day-
rooms, 16mm movies, libraries, crafts
shops, and sports. Although there are
other phases such as music and enter-
tainment, contests, local tours, hunting

A

“Special”

Services

Pro gra m

Recreation penetrates isolated posts
of the Army Air Defense Command.

Stephen Fowler

and fishing, these sub-programs are the
main facets of the major program. Let’s
look at what each sub-program con-
tributes.

Although many ARADCOM units do
not have the service clubs everyone
usually associates with a large military
installation, certain club services and
activities are provided through a unit
“dayroom,” which is the social‘focus of
the battery. Here the soldier can en-
joy music, arts, small crafts, games, en-
tertainment, radio, and television; he
can find interesting reading material in
the book collection, or small library, for
pleasure or for serious study; or he can
watch the latest movie.

The dayroom is usually divided into
two sections; one for reading, writing.
and study; the other for theater, chapel.
classroom, and group social activities.
In some areas, where ARADCOM units
are near enough to larger installations,
service club personnel takes programs
to ARADCOM sites, traveling by auto-

mobiles or other military conveyance.

RECREATIOX

nd presents in the dayrooms a close
. proximation of service club pro-
; ams, adapting them to the available

)ace. Such programs include music,
ntests, informal shows, quiz pro-
ra1ns, and parties. For example, on

ristmas morning, service club per-
nnel from the San Francisco Bay area

rived bright and early, bearing gifts

ia helicopter—-—this by courtesy of

' liADCOM officer-pilots, who volun-

r arily offered to drive these modern-
1 y “aerial sleighs”!

In addition, “POp Platters,” made
vailable by the Department of the
 rmy, are distributed to 'all ARADCOM
ayrooms as apart of the music-enter-

inment activities. These consist of
ve records (ten selections) in each
-- and are seven-inch, unbreakable 45
_PM’s. Needless to say, they are put to
1 0d use.

In some areas the American Red
ross uses the unit dayroom to spon-
r weekly “Coffee and Conversation”
rograms that are tremendously enjoy-
- l by unit personnel. Providing all bat-
ry dayrooms with comfortable, dur-

   
 
 
 
 
    
   
    

11gs, to make them attractive and home-
ike in atmosphere, has top priority in
-' e expenditure of welfare funds and
1p priority in ARADCOM special serv-
res program itself.

The Army and Air Force Exchange
, d Motion Pictures Services provides
mm movies for each isolated battery.

 
   
 
 
  
   
  
 
  
     
 
    
   
   
 
 
   

* 1ree showings per week are now avail-
a le in Cinemascope pictures. They are
ell received by the battery personnel
.- d contribute immensely to morale.
Libraries in ARADCOM units are a
- a rt of the Army library system. Super-
! ing command libraries see that book
llcctions and other reading materials
I installation libraries meet the Depart-
l ent of Army standards so American
:. I ops may have the best reading mat-
a r. Post or installation librarians, in
- rn, supervise service to ARADCOM
l its satellited to their posts, supplying
i; th clothbound and paperbound books,
' her by bookmobile or by means of

    

Z volving deposit collections shelved in
e unit dayroom. Thus, ARADCOM
rsonncl have access to all reading ma-
ials in the nearby post library, and
0 have the benefit of the librarian’s

BRUARY 1958

le furniture and decorative furnish-h

professional library training and aid in
the selection of books. The best fiction
and nonfiction are available from the
post library, including source material
for informational and educational pur-
poses. Book kits of current cloth and
papcrbound books are furnished units
monthly by the Special Services Divi-
sion, TACO, Department of the Army.
In some cases, these reading materials
are supplemented by additional books,
magazines, and newspapers purchased
from nonappropriated funds available
to the unit. Thus an ARADCOM man
can enjoy the reading offered him by
his own home town library.

Like all military installations, ARAD-
COM units have an active crafts pro-
gram, but the crafts shops are much
smaller—-—they all operate at battery
level. The Department of the Army
policy provides for a five-hundred-
square-foot crafts shop at each missile
site. These compact shops are usually
equipped with one or two power tools
and most of the necessary hand tools.
The ARADCOM welfare fund has grant-
ed 3200 to each battery crafts shop as a
revolving fund to be used for the pur-
chase of crafts material for various proj-
ects. At present, the shops offer pri-
marily woodworking, but hope to ex-
pand to include electronics, gift mak-
ing, leathercraft, painting and sketch-
ing, plastics, metalwork, model build-
ing, and phot0graphy. It is also envis-
aged that batteries will have contests
and shows capitalizing on the results
of the battery crafts program, and thus
lead into an ARADCOM-sponsored
crafts contest. In several areas, the
American Red Cross and the National
Recreation Association support the
crafts pr0gram by providing qualified
crafts instructors, for brief visits to the
units.

Last, but certainly not least, in the
ARADCOM special services program is
the sports pr0gram. Here, as well as in
any other branch of the Army, there
are four prerequisites to a worth-while
sports program: funds, program or or-
ganization facilities, and personnel.
From the standpoint of the first two,
great strides have been made. Funds

from the ARADCOM welfare fund sup-
ported one ARADCOM - s p o n s o r e d

sports event each quarter of the 1958

fiscal year. Also, each regional com-
mand receives a grant sc1niannually to
support the program at defense level.
As elsewhere in the Army, the objec-
tives of the sports program are to stimu-
ulate, develop, and maintain the high
morale and mental and physical well-
being of the members of the command,
through voluntary participation in
planned, well-balanced, and supervis-
ed leisure-time sports—or as specta-
tors. In order to select the champion-
ship team in each sport, batteries form
a league or conduct tournaments. After
this competition, each defense area
holds a competitive league tournament
to select the best battalion team in each
respective defense area. Then comes
regional competition, where the out-
standing team from each region is se-
lected to compete in the ARADCOM
tournament. Each such tournament is
conducted at one of the regional com-
mand headquarters, which serves as
host command. The tournaments are
primarily for stimulating interest and
motivating competition at battery level
and on up through the command, cul-
minating in the ARADCOM champion-
ships.
F To promote this program further,
ARADCOM has initiated an awards
program, based on a point system for
determining the winner of the “Com-
manders Sports Participation
Achievement Tr0phy.” This is a rotat-
ing trophy to be awarded to the region
displaying the greatest degree of sports
participation and achievement during a
preceding six-months period. For the
J uly-December 1956 period, the trophy
was won by the 2d Region, United
States Army Air Defense Command, by
a very close decision over the 6th
Region. Any command winning the
commander’s tr0phy over three consec-

and

utivc six-month periods retains perma-
nent possession. Trophies have been
provided each regional command, to be
awarded in a similar manner by the
regional commander to the defense area
within his command displaying the
greatest degree of sports participation
and achievement during specified
periods.

A successful sports program requires
good facilities. With this in mind,
ARADCOM has been awarded a special

55

grant for the construction of outdoor
combination athletic courts at its iso-
lated batteries; these courts will provide
facilities for basketball, volleyball, ten-
nis, badminton, and slmflleboard, in ad-
dition to the already available softball
diamonds, table tennis, and horseshoe
courts. These combination courts have
yet to be constructed, but the money,
spirit, and desire are available. These
are an unbeatable team.

55, Pmczé '4; Day Séeamc'gm

These games are good to have on hand—to adapt to any holi-
day goings on for the youngsters—by changing name of game.

Community activities are another fac-
et of the special services program, not to
be underestimated. Unit participation
in local leagues, unit sponsorship of
community youth teams, such as Little
League baseball, and participation in
community recreation activities not Only
provide unlimited morale and welfare
opportunities but serve to integrate the
Army Air Defense Command units and
activities into the local community.

 
  
    
  
  

The entire ARADCOM special serv
ices program is in its infancy and i
something new. Although the funds
program, and facilities are available
such a program depends upon comman
support and competent, willing, and en
thusiastic leadership by the special serv
ices oliicers. There is still room for im
provement, but with command suppor
at all echelons, the program is bound t
appeal to all the command personnel.

It’s a Good Time to Get Acquainted—Here is an icebreaker
to start off a party, dance, or social; the group can be in a
big circle, or sitting, or just standing around.

TUNE—“Tipperary”

It’s a good time to get acquainted,

It’s a good time to know

Who is standing (sitting) close beside you,
And to smile and say “hello.”

Goodbye that lonesome feeling,

Farewell glassy stare,

Here’s my hand, my name is -——-—,

Now put your hand right there. .
ACTION—0n “hello,” greet the person on one slde of you;

on “here’s my hand,” shake hands with person on the

other. %

Barrow Race—The players are divided into two teams,
each team divided into partners. Across the room from the
starting line, place a pile of small lollipops. Two lollipops
are fastened with an elastic and, at a signal, one of the
partners who is the “barrow” gets down on all fours: He
places his hands Upon the floor while his partner takes a firm
hold of both his ankles which serve as the “handles.” A
barrow from each team starts off crossing the room at a
signal. Then, with his teeth, the partner who is walking on
his hands must pick up two of the lollipops, which are tied
together, and carry them back to the starting line. When

one barrow has successfully completed its trip, the second
pair from the same team can then start off. Of course, the

team finishing the course first is the winner, but with each
person possessed of a hard-won lollipop, it might be termed
an all-around victory. $3

56

     
    

Irish Tag—This is a partner game. When partners hav
been chosen, the ankles of each two players are fastened to
gether and they must link arms. What makes this game eve
more fun is the fact that “It” must be composed of tw
players, also with their ankles tied together. This may no
be quite as fast as the ordinary game of tag, but it is fun.

Road to Erin—This is played with a yardstick, a penny, an
a toothpick. Place the yardstick upon the floor, putting th
penny upon one end. Attempt to push the penny to the othe
end of the yardstick, using the toothpick as a pusher wit
out tumbling the penny from the edge of the yardstick.

Teacher, Ruler, Dance—Guests, still in groups, are lined u
so that two groups are facing each other. Each grou
chooses a captain, and at a signal from the leader, they g
into a huddle and decide what they will imitate—teache
ruler, or dunce. At another signal from the leader bot
groups go into their acts—for “teacher” horn rim spectacle
are made by encircling eyes with thumb and forefinger, fo
“ruler” a straight arm is projected, for “dunce” two han

are placed above the head, finger tips touching to make

dunce cap. To decide which group wins, remember th
Teacher wields Ruler, Ruler whacks Dunce, and Dunce ca
run away from Teacher. A few seconds are given betwee
each call for the groups to make their choice. 0f the tw
competing teams, the one selecting the dominating item th
greatest number of times is the winning team. 9%

Further ideas for special parties, decorations, food, an
games for St. Patrick’s Day are contained in Recreatio

Program Aid PA#16-55, NRA. ($.25) . 

RECREATIO

    
 
  

nother answer to, “Shall speed
' outlawed, or supervised?”

I 113 needs of a community, and the desire to harness the
interests that exist, are challenges that face any munici-
l recreation director. in our modern age of accelerated
ovement, the interest in speed brings into focus the desire
r organized hot-rod clubs.* In many communities, this
sire burns like a hot, smoldering ash that will burst into
Iflame of unsUpervised mayhem if it is not channeled along
nstructive lines. How can hot-rod clubs be formed? What
lp can be derived from other sources in the community?
1656 may be the questions that confront anyone faced with
l ever-increasing problem of youngsters who just have to
e “what she’ll do wide Open.”
... L In Rockland, Maine, a city of some 9,500 people, the hot-
In challenge was met by the recreation department—nwith
' aid of local and state police departments, auto enthusi-

   
 
 
  
  
 
    
  
   
  
    
   
 
 
  
    
   
  

. . ts. and interested members of the community.
I |
|

Organization

. An organization meeting was held with fourteen in at-
"‘ idance, thirteen boys and one girl. The area safety officer
om the state police department showed movies, photo-

aphs, and spoke to the group on highway safety, major
l. ses of accidents, and safe driving habits. The ncxt step
I. the formation of a club with a rigid code of ethics and
I  rm set of bylaws blended into a constitution. The namc
D .i' ockland Hot Rod Club” was chosen with the philosophy:
. y disguise the term hot rod? The organization could bring
I I e true picture of organized “hot rodders” and their activi-

s into the limelight.

c etters of inquiry were written to many known clubs and
f I the National Hot Rod Association asking for sample c0pies
their constitutions. From these. the group formed their

      

{6 _t 11 constitution by combining features they found suitable,
I ' h some of their own ideas. The honor system of adherence

the constitution was adopted.
" I. Any member found breaking the law was reported by an
j erving member. This was not encouraged as “squealing.”

L as a mcans of insuring good community relations and

I * see “Drag Strips vs No Drag Strips,” RECREATION, June 1957;
"Are Hot Rods Really ‘Hot’?” p. 45.

t.
ti '
I e ine, is new director in Wilton, Connecticut.

. ERICSON. formerly director of recreation in Rockland,

'RUARY 1958

Hot Rods and Recreation

Edward L. Ericson

preventing the club from receiving a bad reputation. 0f-
fenders were requested to appear before a club court con-
sisting of the recreation director, police advisor, adult super-
visor, and three rotating members of the club. Disciplinary
measures were gaugcd to the nature of the offense; and all
efforts were made to keep the person in the club—because
of the benefits and help the club could render him.

Aims and Objectives

1. To promote and adhere to safe driving habits.

2. To channel speeding to supervised “drag races.”

3. To learn the art of speed mechanics.

4. To promote mechanical safety condition of automobiles.
5. To provide supervised outlets for interests pertaining to
speed, racing, and automotive mechanics.

Membership

All applicants for membership were required to have par-
ental consent and to be Sponsored by a member. For this.
the sponsoring member received the sum of one month’s dues
—--if the applicant qualified for membership after a thirty-day
trial. If he adhered to bylaws, acceptance was a formality.

Activities and Procedures

Each month, a different member’s automobile was safety
checked by the entire group, under supervision. Any dis-
crepancy was noted on a discrepancy list and givcn to the
owncr. The discrepancies were then corrected by the group
at a work session.

Each mcmber carried a “courtesy card” to be distributed
to any motorist he aided. These cards wcre given for such
deeds as: helping motorists stuck in snow and mud; helping
start a stalled auto; and others too numerous to mention.
Each card bore this inscription: “You have been assisted by
a member of the Rockland Hot Rod Club. Glad to have been
of service to you. Always a safe. courteous, and intclligent
driver.”

Car washing projects were initiated to increase club funds.
Panel discussions on safety were prcsented over the local
radio station. All work on cars belonging to members was
done in a service station, donated once a week.

We observed that speed could be taken from the highways
and made a constructive lesson. I

57

 

 

AKCHERY, an age-old sport that is in-

creasing in popularity, has been
turned into a popular winter sport in
Pontiac, Michigan, making use of the
municipal golf course and clubhouse,
which ordinarily would stand empty
during the long winter months. Arch-
ery—golf attracts archers of all ages,
individually, and in family groups.
This sport, begun in the \Vestern states,
was taken over by the Midwest and
bids fair to come East.

John A. Streit, assistant director of
the Pontiac Department of Parks and
Recreation, gives the following infor-
mation on the archery-golf program in
Pontiac. He is frank to say that other
departments conducting, or planning to
conduct, this activity will doubtless find
ways to make improvements, and he
will welcome any comments and sugges-
tions. A revamped adult winter game
that can be planned for outdoors will, he
feels sure, interest many departments
and organizations.

Archery-golf in Pontiac is conducted
on a regulation golf course using either
nine or all eighteen fairways. The ob-
ject and general rules are very much
the same as in golf: to make the round
in the lowest number of shots through
a system of drives, approaches, and
putts. Holing out differs, however, in
that the archer shoots at a small soft
rubber ball or round disc, either, about
six inches in diameter, placed about
fifteen inches oil the ground in line

RR

- Archery-Golf,

A Winter Sport

with the golf cup. The target should
not be placed on the green proper, in
the interest of keeping traffic and dam-
age on the green to a minimum.

The first shot from the tee can be
likened to a golf drive. The archer here
would use a flight arrow, (long shaft
and short feathers for distance). The
second shot, depending on distance
from the target, can be a regular arrow
(slightly longer feathers with a shaft
of proper draw length for the archer).
For the short approach or putt shot a
Flu-Flu arrow is used. This arrow has
one feather with a web about one to
onc-and-a-half inches long wrapped
spirally around the shaft one-half inch
between each wrapping for a total of
about four to five inches. This type of
Hetching causcs the arrow to slow down
suddenly within a short distance —-
twenty-five to thirty yards. The archer
is considered to have holed-out when
the arrow hits the target or comes to
rest no farther than its own length away
from the target.

A good score for nine holes is thirty
to thirty-three shots. Generally, five
under golf par is the archer’s average
for a nine-hole course. From three to
six persons can start from a tee at one
time.

No special type of bow is advocated.
Archers may use their regular bows
used for other events. Some archers
carry two bows. a heavy one for the
first or long shots and a lighter one for
short or approach shots.

Archery-golf as conducted by the
Pontiac Archery Club has been very
successful. Their events are preplanned.

 

scheduled, advertised, and conducte
on a club group basis with invitation
extended to any and all interested arch
ers in the area. Prizes are awarded i
men, women, and junior division
from first to fifth place, so as to giv
everyone a good chance to be a winne
Extra raffles and card drawing durin
the event add to prize-winning oppo
tunities. Club members enjoy the
events immensely because entire fam
lies can and do participate. It’s all-da
fun playing together and, at the sa

time, competing against each other. T .
club also plans its refreshments an
lunch, which can be sandwiches a
sauerkraut and wieners and plenty a
hot coffee on a cold day. ,The Ponti
archers thereby put the Pontiac Mun
cipal Golf Course and Clubhouse I
good recreation use.

The club has invited all Michig
Recreation Association delegates a1
their archery friends to visit them du
ing any of the season’s scheduled arcl
ery-golf shoots.

More information about archery-g
can be secured from John Yount. secr
tary-treasurer of the National Fie
Archery Association. Box 388, Re

lands, California. I

HELP “WANTED

Recreation Therapists for California
State Hospitals in several locations.
Positions open to college graduates
with major in Recreation or Therapy
and supervised field work. Monthly
salary starts at $376: promotional op-
portunities in expanding rehabilitation
program to $644. Liberal employee
benefits. Write Medical Recruitment
Unit, State Personnel Board. 801 Capi-
tol Avenue. Sacramento. California.

RECREATI

 

PEBSONNEL

9 Applied Imagination
A Review by W. C. Sutherland

This book * on the principles and pro-
edures of creative thinking was origi-
- ally published in October 1953. Adopt-

first by the Massachusetts Institute
fTechnology, it has since been used as
text in over one thousand courses.
' is complete revision, made in 1957,
vers more fully the techniques of
rainstorming now being used so suc-

   
 
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
 
  
   
  
   
  
   
 
  
  
  
 
  

ssfully in business, government, and
he armed services. The methods de-
eloped have been tested successfully.
Einstein said: “Imagination is more
nportant than knowledge.” Disraeli
: id: “Imagination governs the world.”
1e author indicates that a master mind
. one that combines mastery of knowl-
ge with mastery of imagination. For-
nately, everyone has this special gift
hich Shakespeare said makes men
the paragon of animals.”

The author describes the thinking
Iind as: (1) judicial, which analyzes,
ompares, and chooses, and (2) crea-
F-ve, which visualizes, foresees, and
nerates ideas. He points out that
'nety per cent of school training em-
asizes the judicial faculties. It has
- come stylish to be an unerring judge.
 e often hear: “He is wonderful. He
ver makes mistakes.” But rarely do
I hear: “He has imagination and
iakes it work.”

Creativity is so delicate that praise
'lnds to make it bloom while discour-
ement nips it in the bud. Unfriendli-
ss makes people stop trying and wise-

I acks may be poison.

I

||

Ideas are gen-
ated best in an organization cmanat-
I g a friendly atmosphere. The boss is
his best when both a suggester of
eas and a creative coach. Well—estab-
hed concepts may be a barrier to ac-

ns, 597 Fifth Avenue, New York 17. Pp.

l
i
i * By Alex F. Osborn. Charles Scribner’s
g . 
It

 
 
    
 

. SUTIIERLAND is director of the NRA
creation Personnel Service.

I
I.

aauxav 1958

ceptance of new ones. Personal judg-
ment is tinged with environmental prej-
udices. Security and pensions tend to
slow up imagination and creativity.

Thc richest fuel for ideation is experi-
ence. It is likely to stay with us longer
and bubbles up when needed. Second-
hand experience, such as reading, list-
ening, and being a spectator are thinner
fuel. Aptitude tests of kindergarten
teachers reveal that fifty per cent of
them are higher in imagination than are
other occupational groups. This proves,
in part at least, that personal contact,
especially with children, feeds and stim-
ulates imagination. Consequently one
would expect the recreation profession
to offer one of the greatest Opportuni-
ties for leaders to develop imagination.

One cannot help fecling that if Alex
Osborn had chosen recreation as a pro-
fession, it would have been advanced
far beyond what it is today. In fact, one
gets the impression that he may know
a great deal about it. At least, his
book calls attention to the fact that of
two hundred and fifty kinds of games
only fifty entail creative exercise. Cha-
rades, now called “The Game,” pro-
vides better creative exercise than
“Twenty Questions.” More creative
imagination is used in fishing than most
other sports. There are about four hun-
dred known hobbies, most of which have
to do with acquiring knowledge rather
than making creative imaginative eiiort.
Handcrafts provide more creative exer-
cise than does collecting.

The thinker is dominated by his emo-
tions, and even scientists must be moti-
vated by enthusiasms, devotions, and
passions, for creative thinking is not
purely an intellectual process. Our feel-
ings are the stronger and more common
sources of creative cnergy. Some hunt
for inSpiration as one hunts for game.

Is imagination a practical subject?
The author advises that even the golden
rule 'can’t work without it, that we can-
not do unto others as we would be done
by unless we mentally put ourselves in
their shoes. Even enlightened selfish-
ness depends on the use of imagina-

tion. It has something to do with our
jobs. Harvard University in a recent
study found thirty-one per cent of the
people who lose their jobs are let out be-
cause of inability to do their work but
sixty-six per cent are fired for failure
in human relations—for inability to put
themselves in the other fellow’s shoes.

The muses like the early morning, ex-
plains Mr. Osborn, but there is no tell-
ing when or where ideas will strike. I

 

A Recruiting Idea
by John D. Zerhe

Last summcr, the Indiana, Pennsyl-
vania, recreation department adver-
tised that it would accept four students ,
who had completed their junior year
of high school for training as play-
ground leaders, with the understanding
that, if they completed their training
in a fashion sufficient to meet the
qualities of a playground lcader, they
would be hired the following year to
fill vacancies other than those created
by the loss of Specialists. A further
understanding was that they would at-
tend a leadership institute and work
a regular schedule with qualified lead-
ers for the entire summer without re-
muneration. The trainees worked very
hard and displayed an eagcrness to
learn that provided real motivation to
the regular stafi. They each spent a
two-week period in each of the areas.
This provided them with the oppor-
tunity of observing and working with
varied types of leaders and facilities.
At the conclusion of the season, the
regular staff members and the depart-
ment combined resources to present to
each of thcm a token of appreciation
for the help they had given. It is impor-
tant for any agency conducting a like
program to have as its aim that of con-
tribution to the lives of the individuals
concerned. At least three of these young-
sters will be paid leaders next year.

These original four are very definite
prospective recreation majors and re-
cently went to Penn State to see the
campus and have an interview with
Fred Coombs of the recreation depart-
ment. I

MR. ZERBE is director of recreation in

Indiana, Pennsylvania.

 

 

9 An ancient Euro-
pean loom has been
adapted (and patent-
ed) for modern use
by even the most in-
experienced hand-
crafter. The finished
work has a dainty,
lacy look, with the ap-
pearance of crochet-
ing, knitting, and weaving combined. Items as varied in
size as collars and afghans, doilies and bedspreads, or baby
clothes and stoles are possible on the simple 8” x10” frame.
The new craft was developed by Mrs. George Gierling from
a long-forgotten Romanian needlework technique, and its
new name is European Weaving-Lacing. For further in-

formation, write directly to Mrs. Gierling, 3863 Northamp-
ton, Cleveland 21.

 

O Uniglow, a new and improved projection screen fabric,
promises to produce a sharper image at wider viewing
angles than ever possible before. Free samples, large enough
for testing purposes, with slides, movies, or film strips, are
available from Department BB, Radiant Manufacturing

Corporation, Box 5640, Chicago 80.

O A new paper developed for use in finger painting is
coated on two sides and is similar to Cellugloss offset enamel.
Unlike finger-paint paper that is coated on only one side,
the new paper will resist curling when wet. The new devel-
opment is the result of cooperative effort between W. A.
Kirkpatrick of research and development, Allied Paper Cor-
poration (parent company), and Osborn-Midwest Paper
Corporation, Marion, Indiana. For further information,

write J. W. Rusby at the Marion address.

9 Cado-marker is an in-
expensive, versatile felt-
tip bold marker, made of
plastic, using Flo-master
ink, which comes in eight
colors. T h is odorless,
nontoxic, waterproof
fluid adheres to metal,
plastic, glass, leather, rubber, fabric, wood, and paper,
drying instantly. Though permanent on porous and painted
surfaces, the ink can he removed from glass and most non-
porous surfaces with Flo-master Cleanser. Cushman 8: Deni-
son Manufacturing Company, 625 Eighth Avenue, New York
City.

 

60

NEWS

   
 
 
 
  
   
   
   
 
   
   
   
   
 
   
   
 
 
 
    
 
 
    
   

If you are interested in any 0
these products, write directly t
the manufacturer at the addres
given. PLEASE mention that yo:
read about it on RECREATIO
magazine’s Market News page

9 The Sandman is a direct-drive-belt sander with portabl
and stationary features for use in sanding metals, wood
plastics, and stone. It may be used to sharpen tools an
bits, sand vertically or horizontally. The motor has a double
end shaft for grinding with Hex-shaft designed to he oper
ated at speeds to 5,000 rpm and is spring-loaded for quic
helt changes to a variety of grits from rough to fine fo
polishing. Platen is 2”x4”, and total weight is 4% pounds
Premier Specialty Products Company, 3098 North Califor
nia Street, Burbank, California.

9 The first three-
speed transistorized
portable record play-
er, a German im-
port called the Bu-
ton, is handy for a
variety of outdoor
uses in playgrounds,
camps, and Special
events. Audio-Mas-
ter Corporation, 17

East 45th Street,
New York 17.

O Coil-Wal is a low-cost automatic partition that coils c01
pleter into its own storage box, requires no heavy overhe
trusses or beams, allows flush ceiling design, and incorp
rates a quiet electrical-mechanical action. It is suitable f I
large indoor areas where large, movable partitions are nee
ed, such as auditoriums, meeting, and club rooms. The pa

tition is constructed of narrow wooden slats, joined by lig _
weight pre-stressed steel cables to maintain a close-knit ver

cal position. Dubuque Products, Inc., Dubuque, Iowa.

9 Magnecord has put its PT6-6 tape-recorder series ba I

into full factory production, by popular demand. ._
users have testified to the sturdiness of this instrument

withstanding long, hard service and even occasional mi
adventures, such as fire and flood. The PT6-6 is housed

two separate cases for convenience and handling. Magn
cord Division of Midwestern Instruments. Inc.. Tulsa. 0k]
homa.

O A free, eight-page pamphlet, “Blueprint for an Audi
Visual Program,” is being offered by the Victor Anima 1.
graph Corporation of Plainville, Connecticut, manufacture '
of sound and silent 16mm motion picture equipment. |_
pamphlet contains suggestions for those wishing to start
evaluate an audio-visual program; such as, a list of fil
sources, how to set up equipment, a program guide, and -
on. For copies, write directly to the company or any Vict
dealer.

RECREATI

  
  
   
   
   
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
     
  
  
  
  
    
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  

We? 64mm

A study comlucterl by Milton B.
isen, chief, Clinical Psyclzology
vice, and Russell G. Ramage,
ief, Recreation Service, Veterans
+ ministration Hospital, Salisbury,

C.———as reviewed by Elliott M.
lien, NRA Consulting Service on

creation for the Ill and Handi-
pped.

As we become aware of the ever-in-
asing potential of recreation activi-
-. in the medical and psychiatric set-
g, we have a growing concern regard-
, how they are used. The staff of the
terans Administration Hospital in
isbury, North Carolina, has done
re than ust become concerned. The

H

L

. pital recreation service, under the
cction of the psychology service, has
. ducted an eighteen-week study on
a subject.
This study is indeed a milestone in
~ practice of recreation in the medical
ting. It shows that it is beginning to
_ e a critical look at itself, and to make
honest attempt to develop recreation
a functioning discipline within the
'ehiatrie setting. Some of the find-
3, are applicable to personnel not
ly employed in liOSpitals, but also in
_ ncies or institutions where there is
cern for professional leadership in
’ reation.
" Members of the recreation staff feel
t the study throws considerable light
1* this program’s strong and weak fea-
es. It provides a guide for develop-
,- a therapeutic recreation program.
following questions were deve10p-
,in light of the study and may very
- ll be applisable to other hospitals.
What do we hope to accomplish
ough recreation in a neur0psychia-
hospital? Is entertainment, though
irable, enough? Will we settle for
7. patient custody? Do we subscribe
the idea that the NP hospital patient
‘ argely “a holding operation,” or do
believe that he generally will be re-
ilitated when we know enough? T0
at extent can the patients’ behaviors

'rl

..

If

P
at

ed .

i

0

[11?

A few copies of this study are available
' may be secured by writing to the Mana-

, North Carolina.

anARY 1958

 

Veterans Administration Hospital, Salis-

The NP Hospital Patient and Organized Recreation*

and attitudes be altered or modified?
Can they learn normal reactions to con-
ventional entertainments and interper-
sonal associations? Can they deve10p
recreation skills and habits to serve
them in time of emotional stress? How
capable are they of participation in rec-
reation activities?

Some specific questions raised by
staff members are relative to the fact
that they are employees of the Veter-
ans Administration. Some of these are:

What are the opportunities in the VA
recreation field? Can personnel in rec-
reation try new approaches? Will they
jeOpardize their jobs and their inter-
service and public relations if they
break with tradition? Do they dare
attempt rehabilitation and will they be
able to fit into a new role?

(It is recommended that there be fewer
activities, with greater emphasis on the
acquisition of skills; assignment of rec-
reation staff on the basis of individual
differences, interests, skills, and other
personal factors. Diversified assign-
ments should be given to staff personnel
rather than assignment to only one ac-
tivity. Job satisfaction is essential.

\ Patients should be considered as far
as possible in planning the recreation
program and staff should involve them
in the planning process. The facts to
be considered by the recreation staff
when choosing activities are sex, age,
physical needs, and mental status.

Groups should be kept to a feasible
size in keeping with the desired goals.
“We think that few technicians can ef-
fectively deal with more than ten pa-
tients at one time in many activities.

Although we do not discount the need
for mass activities, the more socially
minded the patients, the less their need

\ for large group participation.”

Activities should be planned with an
eye towards the carry-over value for the

\patient when he leaves the hospital.

Since the average age of the patients in
this hospital at the time of study was
thirty-six years for males and forty-two
years for females, these patients will not
be able to play basketball and baseball

many years hence; and most of them
will not have access to golf courses after
they leave the hospital. Thus a more
realistic activity program is needed.

\The staff must remember that psy-
chological changes can only be pro-
duced when a situation is favorable for
such a change. It does not occur just
because the leader tries to change the
patient; the leader should do less for the
patient and have him do more for him-
self and others. \Skills should he devel-
oped at the expense of entertainment,
if need be." Recreation should relieve
tensions, not intensify them. Often the
patient who is eager to participate he-
comes excited, while the patient who
will profit most from participation
avoids it and is never involved.

lThere should be a periodic evaluation
of goals and accomplishments. Rigor-
ous examination of the philosophies
that set the pattern and determine the
course of recreation service in the NP
hospital is urgent.

\A guide book for recreation special-
ists in the psychiatric setting should be
developed, involving the recreation staff
in its preparation. This guide should
be developed over a long period of
time. Staff must remember, though, that
plans are subject to change as need
arises, and should not use the guide
book as anything more than just that.

\One striking fact emerging from the
study is that participation is more
closely related to the athletic interests
and skills of the staff than to any other
one factor. Recreation includes many
activity areas; in fact, one could con-
cede that recreation is as broad as an
individual. Therefore, it is the respon-
sibility of the recreation staff to de-
ve10p a program based, not on their
own interests, or what they believe to
be good, positive, or preferential recre-
ation activity, but rather on the basis of
what is right for the individual.

\ Many recreation personnel have with-
in their own hospital the facilities and
staff for conducting a research program.
There should be more of it, not only
for the development of the profession
of recreation, but for the provision of
effective patient care. We cannot know

how effective, until we try to evaluate it

and conduct definite research. I

61

v5.- .

1%:-
 for every
"-3 RECREATION

,3; ACTIVITY

  
  
   
  

sound
at low cost

 

‘1 .
-I- a?
‘2 ed“
‘- 

0 transcription player
0 public address system

0..
3 “-
*4 ' x

r...
- .r
I

l

=. r i. For every sound reproduction

r

application in recreation halls,
IR, gyms, auditoriums, or summer
 camps, the Newcomb R-16CV
41 does the jOb better, yet weighs
2.;- less than 22 pounds. A separate
" microphone and phonograph
volume control permits mixing
recorded music with the micrO-
1‘, phone presentation. Variable
if? speed control allows variable _
PM tempo and pitch (from any baSIc
_ speed setting). A quality heat
 and humidity resistant high
 ' fidelity ceramic pickup is encased
5.? Si in a professional-type tone arm.
 -‘ Balanced-design amplifier with
P's... inverse feedback in combination
. with a fine ten-inch extended
range speaker give quality you'd
never expect at its price. Newcomb
is the "sound of quality since
I?“ 1937”. . . recognized by leading
I  school authorities from coast

, coast tO coast.

 

4 NEWCOMB VARIABLE SPEED

Exclusive Newcomb design gives
dependable continuously variable
control at all 3 speeds.

Audio Products 00., Dept. 2-12

6824 Lexington AIL, Hollywood 38, Calif.

C] Send free catalog of Newcomb
portable sound equipment.

[3 Send name of our nearest
Newcomb distributor.

- Name

 

 

 

 

62 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 
  

 

Magazine Articles

WOMAN’S DAY, December 1957

How to Build Your Own Aquarium, John
R. Saunders.

What is the Use of a Book?
Smith.

The Runaway Angel, A rthar Gordon.
How to Mat, Frame and Hang Pictures.

Collector’s Craft Book #8: Paper Collage:
Mosaic.

-———-—-. January 1958
Collector’s Craft Book #9: Ilooked Rugs.

SPORTS ILLUSTRATED, November 18, I957
10 Secrets of Bowling, Don Carter.
, November 25, December 9 and I6,

   

William J ay

I957

The New Way to Ski (in three parts) with
Willy Schaedler and Ezra Bowen.

The First Lesson: Preseason Exercises.

Second Lesson: Traverses and Basic Turns.

Third Lesson: Parallel Turns.
-— ~——, December 9, I957
Art on the Court (Basketball).
, December 23, I957

 

Flip-Top Zoo (Designed by Jerome Kalil).

SWIMMING POOL AcE, December 1957

Success Story of a School—Community Pool.

Winners, Swimming Pool Age First Annual
Awards Design Competition.

Topeka, Kansas: Pool Programming and
Financial Report, 1957 Swimming Season.

, Nbvember 1957

What Kind of Swimming Area Controls

Govern Your State? Francis W. Beardon.

Aquatics for the Handicapped (Part II,
Cerebral Palsied), Barbara Sterling.

INDUSTRIAL SPORTS AND RECREATION, October
1957
Recreation for the Retiring Employee (first
of three-part series), Tom Arrington.
Recreation Facilities — Designed or Just
Built? R. H. Pohndorf.
Leisure: Its Use and Abuse, Rose Moose.
CHILD STUDY, Fall 1957

Adult Books for Young Readers.

Books & Pamphlets
Received

NEIGHBORHOOD PLANNING, V. Joseph Kostka,
University of Manitoba, Winnipeg 9, Man-

itoba, Canada. Pp. 157. Paper $4.00. I

OFFICIAL BASKETBALL GUIDE AND OFFICIAL
RATING GUIDE FOR GIRLS AND WOMEN

(September 1957-—Septen1ber 1958), Cath-
erine Snell, Editor. American Association

for Health, Physical Education, and Rec-

     

Wear Your Goiden Age Ciub Pin With
Pride Wherever You May Go

Designed by representatives
of over 100 Golden Age clubs
I and used nationally.

evergreen tree in jewelers’
enamel. Symbolic of longlife,

 

EXACT SIZE

strength and perseverance.
The words LOVE, PLAY, LEARN, SERVE
(greatest values of club membership) en- »
ameled in black. The border is a laurel
wreath for honor. Safety catch.

Available Only to Authentic Clubs.
50: each, minimum order 10 pins.

22 N. 6th Street
Philadelphla 6, Pa.

James Spencer 6. to.

Gold colored metal with .

reation, 1201 Sixteenth Street, N.W., Wa
ingrton 6. Pp. 160. Paper $.75.

OFFICIAL BASKETBALL RULES FOR GIRLS
WOMEN (Reprint). American Associat
for Health, Physical Education, and Re
ation, 1201 Sixteenth Street, N.W., Wa
ington 6. Pp. 160. $.25.

OIL PAINTING, Stephen Bone. D. Van N
trand Company, 120 Alexander Str
Princeton, New Jersey. Pp. 85. $4.75.

OIL PAINTING IS FUN, Alois Fahry. Stud
Crowell, 432 Fourth Avenue, New York
Pp. 95. $2.95.

OLDER PEOPLE AND THE INDUSTRIAL COMi
NITY. National Social Welfare Assem
345 East 46th Street, New York 17. Pp.
Paper $1.00.

ONE MAN’S PHILOSOPHY (Fourth Printin
Revised), Frederick W. Lewis. Ameri
Book-Stratford Press, 75 Varick Street, N
York 3. Pp. 14-5. $2.00.

OUTBOARD HANDLING. Outboard Boating C]
of America, 307 North Michigan Aven
Chicago 1. Pp. 29. Free.

OUTDOOR EDUCATION FOR AMERICAN YOU
American Association for Health, Ph
eal Education, and Recreation, 1201 "
teenth Street, N.W., Washington 6. l
150. $2.50.

TIIE OUTDOOR SWIMMING POOL (A study
port). Conference for National Cooperat
in Aquatics, Department of Physical Edu

tion, Temple University, Philadelphia
Pp. 42. Paper $1.00.

PACIFIC COASTAL WILDLIFE REGION, T
Charles Yoeom and Ray Dasmann,

turegraph Company, San Martin, Califor
Pp. 109. Paper $2.00, cloth $3.00.

PAPER ARTS AND CRAFTS. Dennison Ma

facturing Company, Framingham, Ma
chusetts. Pp. 36. $.50.

PLANNING AND PRODUCING THE MUSI

SHOW, Lehman Engel. Crown Publish
419 Fourth Avenue, New York 16. Pp. |

$3.00.

PROFESSIONAL PREPARATION OF RECREAT
PERSONNEL. American Association
Health, Physical Education, and Rec
tion, 1201 Sixteenth Street, N.W., Wash'
ton 6. Pp. 48. Paper $1.00.

PUBLIC LIBRARY SERVICES FOR CHILDI
UNESCO Public Library Manuals
Lionel R. MeColvin. Columbia Univer

Press, 2960 Broadway, New York 27.
103. Paper $1.50.

RECREATIONAL GAMES AND SPORTS 1957-1
Pauline des Granges, Editor. Ameri
Association for Health, Physical Edi
tion, and Recreation, 1201 Sixteenth Str
N.W., Washington 6. Pp. 64. Paper 3.7

RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR “POP WARN
SAFETY-FIRST FOOTBALL FOR BOYS. In

anee Workers of America, 301 Port]
Building, Washington 5. Pp. 20. Free.

Free to WRITER

seeking a book publish

Two fact-filled, illustrated brochures tell ho
to publish your book, get 40% royalties, n
tional advertising, publicity and promotio
Free editorial appraisal. Write Dept. R2

Exposition Press / 386 Ark Av... N.Y

RECREAT

AFE HUNTING AND SIIOOTING. William Gun
Sight Company, Davison, Michigan. Pp. 24.
$.15.

AN FRANCISCO’S FISIIERMAN’S WHARF, Henry

Evans. Porpoise Bookshop, 308 Clement
Street, San Francisco 18. Pp. 32. $.25.

. IOOTING’S FUN FOR EYERYONE. Sportsmen’s

Service Bureau, 250 East 43rd Street, New
York 17. Pp. 8. Free.

ILK SCREEN PRINTING (Second Edition),
James Eisenbcrg and Francis J. Kafka. Me-

Knight and McKnight, Bloomington, Illi-
nois. Pp. 91. Paper $1.50.

VI OLYMPIC GAMES, Dr. Ferene Mezo, Edi-

tor. Sportshelf, 10 Overlook Terrace, New
York 33. Pp. 31. $.50.

FTBALL STORY, TIIE, Morris A. Bealle.
Sportshelf, 10 Overlook Terrace, New York
33. Pp. 264. $4.00.

UARE DANCING (A history), S. Foster

Damon. Barre Gazette, Barre, Massachu-
setts. Pp. 54. $3.25.

AGING SUCCESSFUL TOURNAMENTS, E. Doug-
las Boyden and Roger G. Burton. Asso-

ciation Press, 291 Broadway. New York 7.
Pp. 1'“. Paper $4.75.

TANDARDS FOR GIRL SCOUT CAMPING. Girl
Scouts of the U.S.A., 830 Third Avenue,
New York 22. Pp. 29. $.30.

ORY-TELLING FOR YOU, Ruby Ethel Cundifl'
and Barbara Webh. Antioch Press, Yellow
Springs, Ohio. Pp. 103. Paper $1.00;
cloth $2.00.

ALKING TURTLE AND OTHER OZARK FOLK
TALES, TIIE, Vance Randolph. Columbia
University Press, 2960 Broadway, New York
27. Pp. 226. $4.00.

ACIIERS GUIDE TO PHYSICAL EDUCATION FOR

GIRLS IN IIIGII SCIIOOL, Genevieve Dexter,
Editor. Bureau of Textbooks and Puhlica-

lions, California State Department of Edn-

cation, Sacramento 14. Pp. 329. $2.50
($.10 tax on California orders.)

:CIINIQUES OF JUDO, THE, Sinzo Takagaki

and Harold E. Sharp. Charles E. Tuttlc,
Rutland, Vermont. Pp. 143. $3.75.

IAT REYOLUTIONARY—CRRIST, Allan Knight
Chalmers. Charles Scrihner’s Sons, 597
Fifth Avenue, New York 17. Pp. 152. $2.95.

THE PRORLEM BOY, Ben Solomon.

TIIE New FRONTIERS OF AGING, Wilma Don-
ahue and Clark Tibbitts, Editors. Univer-

sity of Michigan Press, Ann Arbor. Pp. 209.
$5.00.

THE OUTDOOR SGIIOOLROOM FOR OUTDOOR

LIVING, William G. (Cap’n Bill) Vinal.
William G. Vinal, R.F.D. #2, Vinehall,
Grove Street, Norwcll, Massachusetts. Pp.

69. Paper $1.00.

THE OUTSIDE CAT, Jane Thaycr. William Mor-

row, 425 Fourth Avenue, New York 16. Un-
paged. $2.95.

THE PATENT LEATHER TIIUMPING SIIOES, Lu-

cille L. Hooper. Caxton Printers, Caldwell,
Idaho. Pp. 220. $3.50.

Oeeana
Puhlication, 80 Fourth Avenue, New York
3. Pp. 96. Paper $1.50; eloth $2.50.

 

RONALD BOOKS ——ALL NEW!
ACTIVE GAMES and CONTESTS

By Richard J. Donnelly, University of Minnesota;
William G. Helms and Elmer D. Mitchell

—both University of Michigan

2nd Edition. Ready February. Offering the most complete collec-
tion Of active games available today, this new volume is an invaluable
book for all engaged in any form Of recreational work, whether
it be teaching, therapy, or counseling. All types of play activities are
discussed and selections are OIIBI‘Bd to fit almost any occasion. A sys-
tematic classification procedure is used in assemblingthe two thousand-
Odd games and contests tO help the leader locate appropriate activities

readily.

Games with similar characteristics are grouped together. The con-
tests and games are designated for age use in a general rather than
specific Inanncr, since age likings and the descriptions indicate the
essential supplies or equipment needed and tell whether a particular
activity is appropriate for a playground, gymnasium. or schoolroom.

9i iII5., rabies. 630 pp.

INTRAMURAL and RECREATIONAL SPORTS

For High School and College

By Norma M. Leavitt, University of Florida;
and Hartley D. Price, Florida State University

THINGS FOR BOYS AND GIRLS TO MAI-IE, Wil-

liam J. Hennessey. Harper & Brothers, 49
East 33rd Street, New York 16. Pp. 117.
$2.50.

STAGE TRICKS AND HOLLYWOOD EXERCISES,

Nelson Hall. Exposition Press, 386 Fourth
Avenue, New York 16. Pp. 128. $3.00.

TUMELE TROUBLE, Bernard Seeman. Birk and

Company, 22 East 60th Street, New York
22. Unpaged. $.15.

CHAMPION

PLAYGROUND EQUIPMENT

“SCALED TO CHILD SIZE”

FREE LITERATURE
GYM —-- PLAYGROUND — POOL

Highland Park, III.

 

 

  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

$5.50

 
  
 
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

IE BEIIAYIORAL SCIENTISTS AND RESEARCH IN
TIIE lIEALTII FIELD (Research Series 1),
Odin W. Anderson and Milvoy Scaeat.

Health Information Foundation, New York
City. Pp. 15. Free.

IE BOYS’ BOOK OF MAGIC. Roy Publishers,
30 East 74th Street, New York 21. Pp. 192.
$2.75.

E COMPLETE FAMILY FUN BOOK, Phyllis
Cerf and Edith Young. Random House,
457 Madison Avenue, New York 22. Pp.
’2 142. $2.95.

I E GOOD CITIZEN IN THE GOOD SOCIETY,
Benson Y. Landis, Editor. National Con-
ference of Christians and Jews, 43 West
57th Street, New York 19. Pp. 69. $.25.

2nd Edition. Ready Jan. 31. For planning and conducting a pro-
gram of intramurals in high schools and colleges. .Explains the dutIes
Of administrative personnel; tournament orgaulzatlon; pOInt systems;
etc. Shows how to prepare an intramural handbook usable in formlng
a recreation association. 45 charts and record forms. 334 pp. 34.

SYNCHRONIZED SWIMMING

By Fern Yates, Barnard College, Columbia University;
and Theresa W. Anderson, North High School,
Des Moines, Iowa

2nd Edition. Ready February. Fully covers technique Of synchro-
nization for teaching swimming fundamentals, creating water compo-
sitions for programs, pageants. and competitions. Valuable informa-
tion on costumes. properties, lighting, staging, musical effects, etc.
Variations in the standard strokes and 87 special stunts are illustrated

by underwater and surface photograph sequences. 350 ills, 61/239:1 

1. ICE WHEN YOU WANT IT

with

BELTEMP

Order Your Books From:
artificial ice skating rinks by

BELTZ ENGINEERING LABORATORIES
1102! Whittier Avenue
etroit 24, Michigan. VEnice 9-1811

   

THE RONALD PRESS COMPANY 15 E. 26th St., New York 10

I BRUARY 1958 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 63

 

Public Recreation and Parks
in California

State of California Recreation Com—
mission. Documents Section, State
Printing Office, Sacramento 14, Cali-
fornia. Pp.74. $.50.

The first of this publication’s two
parts deals with major functions and
current practices of public recreation
and park agencies. T0pics include
the responsibilities for administration,
areas and facilities, personnel, activity
programs. findings, evaluation, plan-
ning, and community cooperation. In
brief, concise form, the important as-
pects of these various functions are set
forth clearly and effectively.

The second section is devotcd to ac-
tual and proposed ordinances, charter
statements. intergovernment a g r e e -
ments, budget outlines, and appraisal
forms. Although they relate primarily
to the situation in localities in Califor-

nla, they contain valuable suggestions
for any community.

Teach Yourself to Relax

Josephine L. Rathbone, Ph.D. Pren-
tice-Hall, lnc., Englewood Clifis, New
Jersey. Pp. 216. $4.95.

Are you “worn to a frazzle,” or are
you wondering what in the world is the
matter with you? If so, this is the book
for you. Dr. Rathbone offers many
practical answers to the nervous tension
and fatigue constantly hesetting man-
kind in today’s chaotic world of ex-
perimentation and uncertainty. After
all, conservation of human resources
is a must!

Recreation leaders will be especially
interested in what she has to say about
play and other related things, such as
laughter, enjoyment of beauty, and the
('tut-of-doors. In stating that play brings
release from tension, she observes,
“Real refreshment may be had through
play, because in true play one cannot
take oneself too seriously.” (This could
well form the basis for a definition of
play. Ll She goes on to say that partici-
pating in an activity with a grim de-
termination to win is not play; and that
“in lesiure time adults need to take the
edge off their strivings, not add to
them." -

Dr. Rathbone has been an instructor

6-1

PUBLICATIONS

Covering the Leisure-time Field

of physical education at Teachers Col-
lege, Columbia University, for many
years, and is a rccognized authority on
the subject of relaxation. She has writ-
ten for many magazines, appeared on
radio programs, and you have prob-
ably seen her on television.

LET’S DO MORE ARTWORK!

The following three books are for
beginners. Let’s get out the pencils and
paint pots and havc some fun indoors
before February and March are over.
Perhaps we will become good enough
to take our equipment with us when we
move outdoors in the spring.

Sketch-ing & Painting Indoors, Percy V.
Bradshaw 81 Rowland Hilder. Studio-
Crowell, 432 Fourth Avenue, New
York 16. Pp. 96. $6.00.

This book began on a winter’s after-
noon indoors and is based on the idea
of using your home as a sketching
ground, with the hope of encouraging
year-round art activity. The text is en-
tertaining reading, even if you don’t
think you want to engage actively in
these arts. You will eventually want to,
though, because the authors lead you
on gently toward that end, until sud-
denly you find yourself trying your
hand at silhouetting objects by the use
of light and shadow, for instance.

A few of the chapters carry such titles
as Around the House, Bring Your Land-
scaDes Indoors, The Human Angle,
Build Your Own Landscapes, and My
Materials. The sketches and paintings
used as illustrations are fascinating.

Oil Painting Is Fun, Alois Fabry, Stu-
dio-Crowell, 432 Fourth Avenue, New
York 16. Pp. 95. $2.95.

Another effective and reasonably
priced art book, this carries one of the
best chapters on color mixing that we
have seen. Slanted especially for peo-
ple who want to paint but don’t know
how to get started and for the countless
Sunday painters of all ages the hook’s
content is presented clearly and simply.
Illustrations are in black and white,
with the exception of a colorful and ef-
fective color-mixing plate in the center
of the book. Mr. Fabry is a successful
artist, illustrator, and teacher of draw-
ing and painting to both adults and

children.

Course in Making Mosaics, Joseph L.
Young. Reinhold Publishing, 430 Park
Avenue, New York 22. Pp. 60. $3.50. _

In this age of automation, when even
the assembly line gives way to the ma- I
chine, people increasingly feel the (le- I
sire to do something creative with their
hands. Since this is usually denied them
in their work, they turn to crafts during l
their leisure, and art becomes the by-
product of the machine.

One of the most popular present-day'
craft forms is making things with mo-
saics. Even school children are doing
it, and the mosaics themselves range
from paper through natural rocks and'l
pebhles to richly colored glass, ceramic
tiles, and semi-precious stones.

Those who take this activity seriously
and practice it as an art, make their
own mosaics from a variety of materi- I
als, working out beautiful and original
designs. Mr. Young’s book is rich in
ideas for these people. It includes the
“how-to” for doing wall panels, family
projects, mosaic techniques combined
with wood carving, and sculpture. Al-
though information on ways for hegin-
ners’ work is included, this book
should be especially helpful for more
advanced art groups.

 

 

INDEX OF ADVERTISERS

PAGE
American Cancer Society ----_---_-____.-------__- 37
Belt: Engineering laboratories __..m___-___. 63
California State Personnel Board -_-__.--_.._. 58
Champion Recreation Equipment _..._.-____. 6

Chicago Roller Skate Company
Outside Back Cove

Classified _______________________ .._.._ 38

 

Dimco-Gray Company ....................... ..- 3
EXposition Press ...-________.__-__-___---_-_-.-,.- 6
Folk Dance Guide  3
Greenwich Book Publishers __--_.__-_.-----..-..--- 3
Heart Fund .__-_.--__._-_..__-_-------___-______ 3
Home Crafts Company ...... --lnside Front Cove
Jamison Manufacturing Company ______--- ‘.
Jayfro Athletic Supply Company  - 37
The MacGregor Company ___-__..|nside Front Cov
Monroe Company ..____.___--___..._--___..._-.__ 3
National Sports Company __.___-_..__-.u-..-_... 3
National Studio -.______-_._.._,--__-_____.._--_- 3
Newcomb Audio Products Company -_.__--,,. 6
Nissen Trampoline Company _---|nside Front Cov
Pecsolite Equipment Company --._-_____  3
Rawlings Sporting Goods Company as ______ __ 4
The Ronald Press ___.____-._m_-_--._.__--__-__- 6'
James Spencer 8. Company __-_--._...----_--__-_. 6 .'
Square Dance Associates ............. _- 3
Superior Industries Corporation ___..._,-_.-..__ 3
T. F. Twardzik 8. Company ... .................. -- 3
VogeI-Peterson Company  _-_..-.____.--_-.m 3
Volt --___,____.---_._-____-_--__--_---___._----m_..__.
RECREATIO

ll

 

Recreation Leadership Training Courses

Sponsored by the National Recreation Association
and

Local Recreation Agencies

February, March, April, 1958

Newark, Delaware

Wayne Bath, Acting 4-H Club Leader, Extension Service, University
February 3-6

of Delaware

RUTH G. EHLERS
Social Recreation

Lawrence, Massachusetts Miss Evelyn Stnlts, Exccutive Director, YWCA

February 11-14

Burlington, North Carolina

February 2427 Miss Virginia Gregory, North Carolina Recreation Commission,

Greenville, North Carolina RaIEigh

M arch 3-6

Cicero, Illinois William C. Kouns, Cicero Youth Commission

F ebruary-3-6

ANNE LIVINGSTON
Social Recreation

Gastonia, North Carolina

February 1013 Miss Virginia Gregory, North Carolina Recreation Commission,

Salisbury, North Carolina Raleigh

February 17-20

Ames, Iowa

Miss Helcu Tucker, Ag Annex, Iowa State Collegc
March 3-6

Natural Bridge, Virginia

Dr. Harold K. Jack, Supervisor, HPES&R, State Board of Education,
March 20-21

Richmond 16

Topeka, Kansas
February 3-7

GRACE WALKER
Creativc Recreation

Miss Romana Hood, Executive Secretary, Council of Social Agencies

 

Miss Helen M. Dauncey will be conducting social recreation courses at the following Air Force Bases: February 3-6, Amarillo Air
Force Base, Amarillo, Texas, (for further details. communicate with the Air Force Regional Representative, Ray Morrison, 248 Casa
Blanca, Fort Worth 7, Texas) ; February 10-13, Lowry Air Force Base, Denver, Colorado; February 24-27, Warren Air Force Base,
Cheyenne, Wyoming; March 3-6, Scott Air Force Base, Belleville, Illinois; March 10-13, Chanute Air Force Base, Rantoul, Illinois,
(for further details, communicate with the Air Force Regional Representative, Howard Beresford, 3055 Bellaire, Denver, Colorado).

Mr. Frank A. Staples will be at the following Air Force Bases conducting two-week arts and crafts courses: February 3-13, Amarillo
Air Force Base, Amarillo, Texas; February 17-28, Lackland Air Force Base, San Antonio, Texas; March 3-l3, Sheppard Air Force
Base, Wichita Falls, Texas, (for further details, communicate with the Air Force Regional Representative, Ray Morrison, 248 Casa
Blanca, Fort Worth 7, Texas) ; March 17-27, Keesler Air Force Base, Biloxi, Mississippi, (for further details, communicate with the
Air Force Regional Representative, Wayne Shields, USAF Oliice of Community Services, University of Georgia, Athens).

Attendance at training courses conducted by the National Recreation Association leaders is usually open to all who wish to attend.
For details as to location, contents of the course, registration procedure, and the like, communicate with the sponsor of the course
as listed above.

NRAE‘1953 DISTRICT CONFERENCE SCHEDULE

Location Dates
February 16-19

District
CALIFORNIA STATE & PACIFIC
SOUTHWEsT
MIDDLE ATLANTIC
SOUTHWEST
SOUTHEAsT
GREAT LAKES
MIDWEST

Civic Auditorium, Fresno, California

The Inn, Buck Hill Falls, Pennsylvania
Shamrock-Hilton Hotel, Houston, Texas
Francis Marion Hotel, Charleston, South Carolina

Schroeder Hotel, Milwaukee, Wisconsin

Jay Hawk Hotel, Topeka, Kansas
(Meetings in Municipal Auditorium)

Multnomah Hotel, Portland, Oregon
Cumberland Falls State Park, Kentucky

Norwich Inn, Norwich, Connecticut

March 19-21
March 19-22
March 20-22
March 24-26
April 8-11

April 7-9
April 14-16
May 18-21

PACIFIC NORTHWEST
SOUTHERN
NEW ENGLAND

Space for 1 ar  

\
0.0.0.0.... JOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO

 

they All can have Active fun in your gym

Roller skating is more fun than a barrel of monkeys, and it
entertains and exercises more people in less space than any other sport.
Little equipment is needed, little supervision is necessary.
That’s why more and more schools are making roller skating a definite

part of their physical education and recreation programs.

NEW RUBBER-PLASTIC WHEELS ARE KIND TO GYM FLOORS

These new Duryte rubber-plastic wheels autwear others and
are guaranteed not to mar or scratch the floors. "Chicago"
has a skate designed for any type of floor surface or finish.
Write today for free details on roller skating programs and

skating equipment.

 

 

Chicago Roller Skate Co., 4490-8 W. Lake Street, Chicago 24, Ill.

