 

BOOKS

YOU WILL WANT
FOR YOUR TEAMS

   
   

7

   

    
   
  
   

lHE I958 FAMUUS
SLUGGER YEAR 800K

free for your team members.
Contains statistics and rec-
ards on last season. Also
pictures and helpful article
on hitting byoBig ___________ --
League stor. """"""""""""" """"'

New Subscription Order Form

PARKS & RECREATION
Oglebay Park, Wheeling, West Virginia

Your City
. Officials
Your Key
. Personnel
Your Informed
. Lay Supporter:

Enter my personal subscription to start with the
next issue:

  $. ............. .. enclosed for  year(s). D Send Invoice
NAME ..............................................................  ......................... ..
RULE 800K TITLE ..........  ........................  ............................................... ..
“mum‘s n e w I y recodined ADDRESS .................................................................................. ..
rules for fast-pitch and r . 1 , .,
slow-pitch play. Also pic- C;er ......  ........................ .. ZONE: .......... .. STATE .............. ..
tures and other statistical 1 yr. $5 2 yrs. $9 3 yrs. $13 Foreign—1 yr. $6
information.

 

 

New

Price

$3.50 each

Ideal for your locker
room wall. Shows the
important “do's” and
"don't's" in bat core.
A free copy awaits
your request.

 

  

'
and-In- tilt-IOU.“ “I”
animuiwmum' III.
F HH“* .- If“

“lwm "pt-II
am.uwnmm

 

(Includes
I2 blades)

Write for this FREE
material to
Hillerich 8. Bradsby Ca...
Louisville 2, Kentucky

Dept. R-B

 

I954, I955, I956. |957, I958. I959 and Undated

-dd
I‘D!“

 

a Blue heavyr simulated leather stamped in gold
0 Each holds one year’s issues

i [Extra sets of looped rods available separately
for 55.65 per set]

 I RECREATION MAGAZINE

8 West Eighth Street, New York II

Choice of the Champions

 

mg“ urritinn tn nnp .rlvnv-tiure ulna“ mantinn Rrrnnrnnnr.

M, .

FROM THE
- WORLD’S LEADER...

lift-RI

HARDWARE COMPANY

HUI]

     

New Double-Duty FANTOM FLYER #6 . . . for use Indoors or Out!

Here’s an ideal skate for all group skating activities—equally at home on outside
pavement or indoor flooring. Wheels are of tough new Unionite® rubber compound-
won’t mark the finest floors. And noiseless, sure-grip Unionite outwears all other

L wheels tested. Rugged Double-T Channel Design and extra sturdy construction throughout.
FAVORITE #5. . . most popular skate ever made!
I Speed, maneuverability, and durability have been combined to make this the

largest-selling roller skate in the world. Skaters, parents, and group buyers everywhere
have proved that feature for feature it's the outstanding value in the roller skate field.

   

DE LUXE #3

9 full-size ball
bearings per wheel
for speed, low-
built for balance,
rugged for long
wear.

LILLIPUTIAN #1
, Low, slow, and

, inexpensive, the
. perfect skate for
beginners.

JUNIOR #9

Rubber wheels

for Junior, too!
Just like #3
except for tough,
quiet, non-mar
"Unionite" wheels.

   

meet them. See your nearby Union
Hardware Dealer—and write to the ad-

For low-cost, body-building fun, nothing
beats skating— on roller skates by Union

Hardware. Why not look to your skating
needs now—and to Union Hardware to

UNION  SM /826

SALES DEPT., TORRINGTON, CONNECTICUT

dress below today for free, fully illus-
trated Roller Skate Catalog.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 145

 

 

) THE FIRST WEEK OF J UNE—NATIONAL
RECREATION MONTH—which has been
designated Youth Fitness Week by the
National Recreation Association, will
be adOpted also as Youth Fitness Week
by the President’s Council on Youth
Fitness, according to Dr. Shane Mc-
Carthy, executive director of President
Eisenhower’s Council.

This provides us with an added Op-
portunity to emphasize the important
role of recreation in the building of
healthy bodies and sound minds, and
to bring together all community groups
concerned with youth fitness to plan a
most impressive June observance.

) A NEW $50,000 YOUTH RESEARCH
PROJECT is being launched by the Boys”
Clubs of America, according to an an-
nouncement made at recent ceremonies
marking the start of the 52nd annual
National Boys’ Club Week. An esti-
mated iifteen hundred Boys’ Club mem-
bers in five hundred clubs will be in-
volved in the project. It is being con-
ducted in conjunction with The Grant
Foundation, which is providing funds
for the study.

“Our first concern will be to deter-
mine the basic needs and interests of
youngsters in the fourteen-to-eighteen
brackets in today’s and tomorrow’s
swiftly changing world,” says BCA na-
tional director John M. Gleason. He
points out that, while the BCA study
will draw heavily upon the findings of
researchers in the child development
field, the development of new tech-
niques for determining youth’s needs
will be heavily emphasized.

) SPEAKING 0F FUTURE SCIENTISTS (see
“No Shortage of Future Scientists
Here,” page 167), an excellent periodi-
cal filled with ideas for nature pro-
grams and other natural science pro-
j ects, is New H orizons.* This magazine
is published three times a year by the
National Foundation for Junior Mu-
seums, 114 East 30th Street, New York
City 16, to communicate up—to-date in-
formation in this field. There are, by
the way, over one hundred junior or

*Annual subscription, $5.00. For recent
developments in the junior museum held, see
also RECREATION, November, 1957 p. 323.

146

J unc Calendar

1-30—National Recreation M o n t h .

Sponsor: National Recreation Associa-
tion, 8 W. 8th Street, New York 11.

1-7—Youth Fitness Week. Sponsor:
President Eisenhower’s Council 0 11
Youth Fitness and the National Recrea-
tion Association.

2—Thomas Hardy (1840-1928), English
novelist and poet.

6—Thomas Mann (1875-1955), German

novelist. Awarded the Nobel prize for
literature, 1929.

8—Children’s Day, second Sunday in

June, a special day observed in Protes-
tant churches throughout the United
States.

14—F1ag Day, anniversary of the day on
which the Continental Congress formal-

ly adopted the Stars and Stripes as the
flag of the United States, 1777.

15—Fathers’ Day. Sponsor: National
Fathers’ Day Committee, 50 East 42nd
Street, New York 17.

Benjamin Franklin demonstrated the
identity of electricity and lightning by
use of a kite 1752.

children’s museums in the United States,
but a shortage of trained personnel. One
of the objects of this publication is to
stimulate student interest.

) THE MOST FAMOUS SENIOR CITIZEN
AND SUNDAY PAINTER in the world, Sir
Winston Churchill, sets an example for
goldenagers everywhere during Senior
Citizens Month. He strongly recom-
mends painting as a leisure-time activ-
ity—for any age. His pictures made
Up the first amateur exhibit—during
March—of paintings ever displayed in
the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New

York City.

) RESOLUTIONS ON LAND AQUISITION
AND ENCROACHMENT, passed at the An-
nual Southeastern Parks and Recreation
Workshop in March, included strong
recommendation that in city, regional,
and state land-use planning equal em-
phasis be placed on the acquisition of
land for parks and recreation areas as
on the acquisition of land for other pub-
lic services. Adequate provision should
be made in all land-use planning to
meet the public need for parks and rec-
reation areas.

It was further resolved that all pro-

 

**Cost $14.50, or rental for two days $1

   
    
    
  
  
 
 
  
   
  
   
   
 
   
 
    
   
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
    
  
  
   
 
 
  
  
  
    
 
 
 
 
  

posals to divert park and recrea
lands to other use be impartially
lyzed and studied to determine whe
or not such proposals are, in fac
the long-range public interest, and
diversion of park and recreation l
to other uses be permitted only if -
diversion is found essential in the 1
range public interest, and only if 1
so diverted to other use is replace
land of such quality and so locate
to serve the population deprived of
and recreation services by diversio
park and recreation land to other

) A SERIES OF SPACE SLIDES IN CO
“Exploration With a Space Satelli
is being offered for rent or sale by
American Museum of Natural Hist
Central Park West and 79th Str
New York City. The set** incl
twenty-four slides and a text by Hay
Planetarium astronomer Thomas
Nicholson. It illustrates the deve
ment of the satellite program, desi
and performance of research satelli

and the use of the Vanguard rocke

launchings.

) BOATING FILMS. An excellent list
films on recreation boating has b r
published by the National Associat l
of Engine and Boat Manufactur '
All films are 16mm and are availa
free of charge from the sources indi
ed except where otherwise stated.
turn postage is borne by the borrou
The list may be secured free from

association’s ofiices at 420 Lexing
Avenue, New York City 17.

) GOLF PLANNING INFORMATION.
National Golf Foundation, 407 D
born Street, Chicago 5, acts as a
tional clearing house and publis
pamphlets available at low cost. W

for the list Guide to Golf Aids.

) THE NEWLY ELECTED U.S. Commit
of the International Conference of ‘
cial Work reports the deveIOpment
full scale plans for United States part
pation in the Ninth International C
ference of Social Work, to be held
Tokyo, Japan, November 30-Deccm
6, 1958. George W. Rabinoff is exe
tive secretary of the U. S. Commit
“Mobilizing Resources for Soc
Needs” will be the conference thenic.

) THE SCHOOL CAMPING PROGRAM at
Bradford W oods Outdoor Educat
Area of Indiana University is wri
up in The Saturday Evening Post, A
19, undcr the title, “The Sixth Gr
Takes to the Woods.” The area is un
the direction of the university dep
n1ent of recreation.

plus postage.

RECREATI

llAY1958

 

 

Editor in Chief. JOSEPH PRENDERGAST
Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON
Business Manager, RALPH C. MORRIS

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Recreation Administration, GEORGE BUTLER
Program Activities, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

1.. LI. Price 50 Cents N0. 5

the Cover
AMth PICNIC UNDERWATER. Captain Jae-

es- 'ves Cousteau, the famous undersea explorer
(l eO-inventor of the Aqua-Lung, takes his entire
mily beneath the sea. Free diving and under-
' ter exploring are a rapidly growing Sport. (See
ust Looking,” on page 149.) From left to right—

tan-Miehel, Madame C., Captain C., and Philippe.
ioto courtesy Captain Cousteau.

ext DIonth

June is National Recreation Month, and the mag-
ine presents a wide coverage of summer recrea-
on interests. Among them, “Going Anywhere” Of-
5 tips for vacation planners, while “ ‘Roughing
’ in Comfort” and “You Can Take It With You”
th earry practical suggestions for the family or
oup who expect to go on tent-camping trip. Other
icles give how-to information on a variety of sum-
r activities. “Tennis as a Headline Sport,” for
‘tanee, gives, step by step, the way to build up
1r eommunity tennis program. July is Picnic
nth, and, if you are planning to celebrate, “What
kes Fun at a Picnic” is just your meat. HOSpital
reation workers will he pleased with the excel-
1t artiele, “Our Responsibility in the Rehabilita-
1 Process,” by Lucy Fairhank, who is assistant
‘titutionnl therapy eonsultant in the Illinois De-
' tment of Public Welfare. Exeeutives will not
nt to miss the two articles on recreation buildings.

.. oto Credits

’age 153, John Cass, Tuckahoe, New York; 159,
e Sullivan, Brookline, Massachusetts; 162 (tOp),
rry B. Walton, Jr.

   
       
  
   
   
   
  
     
  

RECREATION is published monthly except July and
August by tbe National Recreation Association, a service
organization supported by voluntary contributmntnat 8
West Eighth Street, New York 11, New York. rs on
file in public libraries and is indexed in the Readert’
Guide. Subscriptions 34.00 a year. Canadian and for-
eign subscription rate 34.50. Reentered gs second-class
matter Apri 25, 1950, at the Post Othce tn New York.
New York under Act of Marcb 3. 1879. Acceptance
for mailing at special rate of postage provrded or an
Section 1103. Ac: of October 3, 1917. autborrzed May
1, 1924. Microfrlms of current issues available Unr-
versity Microfilms, 313 N. First Street. Ann Arbor,
Michigan.

Space Repretmtatitrertuark Minahan, 185 Nortb Wa-
basb Avenue, Chicago 1, Illinois; Seymour A. Rob-
bins & Associates, 101 West SStb Street, New York 19,
New York; Thompson and Clark, 681 Market Street,
San Francisco 5, and 6000 Sunset Boulevud, Holly-
wood 28, California.

Copyright, 1958. by tbe
National Recreation Association, Incorporated

Printed in the U.S.A. 

O p
c 0
'.° 13 51%}

   
 
  

' Trade mark registered in U. 5. Patent Ofiice.

Y 1958

 

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

CONTENTS

GENERAL FEATURES

JustLooking . . . . . . . . . . 

The Arts in an Age of Science (Editorial) . . Howard Hanson 151

Atlantic City Highlights . . . . . . . . ..   152

After the Job—What? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Elvira Delnny 154-

I’layBall!  . . . . . . . . . .............Ed]aekel157

Yardstiek for Middle Age . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Harry D. Edgren 158
ADDIINISTRATION

Swimming Pools for Water Fun . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 159

Construction of Two New Pools . . . . . . . . . .James J. Lynch 160

Are You Building an Indoor Pool? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 162
PointersforPools . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
PROGRADI

How to Plan Bus Trips for Senior Citizens. . . .June Bennett 156

No Shortage of Future Scientists Here. . .Adrienne Richard 167

SafeBoatOperation..... . . . . . . . 
Why Not Preschoolers? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Riehard E. Johns 169
It’s in the Cards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 170
For “Over Sixty-Fives” . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 171

REGULAR FEATURES

Things You Should Know  146
Letters  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

Market News . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 172

ClassifiedAds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

AdvertisersIudex...... . . . . . . . . .  . . . . .....173

Books and Pamphlets Received . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 174-

Magazine Artieles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 174-

New Publieations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 176

Recreation Leadership Training Courses. . . . . Inside Back Cover ,

147

everything for your

ll)’

from one resource!

Since 1883 OCEAN POOL has
been lirst choice for all
waterlront supplies.

Send today. on official
stationery, ior big. colorful
FREE (ATALOG No. AB

OCEAN POOL SUPPLY CO.

155 West 23rd Street
New York 11, N. Y.

Fun For Everyone!

From 8 to 80 here is exciting recrea-
tion for all ages . . . keen enioymen’r
for players and spectators.

Rugged, Dimco FreeGlide Shuffle-
board sets are available for both out-
door and indoor installation.

Easy to install . . . low in upkeep!
Write today for colorful folder, "Let’s'
Play Shuffleboar ,” containing com-

plete information on court layout and
equipment.

DIMCO-GRAY COMPANY

205 EAST SIXTH STREET
DAYTON 2. OHIO

 

148

  

 

Readers! You are invited to send letters for this page

to Editor, RECREATION, 8 West Eighth Street, New
York 1 1—so that your ideas, opinions and attitudes
may be exchanged with others on the wide range of
subjects of concern to us all. Here is your chance to
agree or disagree with the authors of our articles.
Keep letters brief—not more than 250 words.

Clowning
Sirs:

We would like to share our hobby of
clowning with others and will be glad
to assist others in taking up the hobby
as well as exchange ideas.

J. M. ENCEL, Secretary, The Tren-
ton Clown Club, 18 Baal Street,

Trenton, New Jersey.

How About Unicycling?
Sirs:

I like the variety of sports covered
in RECREATION, but you’ve missed uni-
cycling. How about some publicity so
as to encourage more people tO enjoy
the recreation of unicycling?

EARL J. FULLER, 5825 Pershing, St.
Louis 12, Missouri.

Good Source Material
Sirs: '

I use your [RECREATION] magazine
for resources material for public school
music program ideas. Also, your office
people are always so accommodating
for consultation, providing extra serv-
ices when asked.

MRS. HORACE STEWART, Box 186,
lewett, Ohio.

More About Sleeping Bags
Sirs:

It was with a great deal Of pleasure
that I read Stan Stocker’s article,
“Family Camping Invades TV,” in the
March issue of RECREATION.

It was my fortunate experience to be
associated with Stan last summer, as
camping director and tripmaster at
Camp Mah-Kee-Nac, Lenox, Massachu-
setts, where he was waterfront director.

His statement that camping should be
both comfortable and fun should be
strongly reiterated. Emphasis should
be stressed on the value of top quality
camping equipment as an investment in
comfortable camping and serviceabil-
ity. An otherwise successful overnight
camping experience can be spoiled by
an improper sleeping bag. Unfortu-
nately, many novices in camping are

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

——The Editors.

misled by poorly labeled or designed
bags, or by the advice of sporting
goods clerks who probably have never
used the wares they sell.

In the selection of a good sleeping
bag, the shape is immaterial—get the
one that suits your fancy; either the
“mummy” type or the conventional
square bag. While the mummy type
conserves body heat and folds smaller
for packing, many campers prefer the
square type that allows increased body
movement and lacks a feeling of restric-
tion, sometimes unpleasant in the
mummy type. The outside of a sleeping
bag should not be rubberized, water-
prOOf material. Should a bag be water-
tight, the normal perspiration, even on
a cold night, accumulates and breaks
down the insulation factor of the bag,
causing even a good bag to become cold
and damp. The good bag will have a
nylon, close-grained cotton, Byrd cloth,
or similar “shell.” The inside of the
bag should be of a high-grade flannel.
A sheet inner liner, preferably with tie-
tabs to hold same in place is advisable
for sanitary reasons and ease Of laun-
dering. Two may be brought on an ex-
tended trip so one may be washed and
dried while the other is being used.
full-length, heavy-duty zipper allowin
the bag to be completely opened an
aired is a must. Regardless of claim
of synthetics, the finest insulation ma
terial known for sleeping bags is eider
down. These bags are expensive, bu
well worth the extra investment, as the
are very light, very warm, and do no
“pack.” Insulating material rating
from eiderdown as the best down- th
line to the poorest, is as follows: eide
down, waterfowl feathers, goose down
nylon, or Orlon long fiber synthetics
under various commercial trade names
nylon or Orlon “clippings,” kapok
wool, felt waste, cotton fibers, cotto
waste. The law requires a tag to be a
fixed to sleeping bags, indicating th
manufacturer, the contents of the insu
lation in pounds, and the type Of insu
lation. Regardless Of the manufactur

  

  
 

   
    
  
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 

RECREATIO

’s claims as “good to zero degrees” or

e type of insulation, or how efficient
l e bag “looks,” the little tag aliixed to

e bag is the only true and positive
I. eans to ascertain the warmth and com-
rt to expect from the bag.

Another item to consider is the type
'_ stitching holding the insulation ma-
rial to the shell. It should be a reg-
lar quilting stitch, to prevent the con-
nts from packing or shifting. The
I all hood, which enables the bag to
e rolled up, is frequently pictured by

anufacturers as being able to afford
lIelter by erecting it as a head shelter,
tilizing forked sticks and a center sup-
ort. The writer has never found this
ractical or possible. If you sleep out-
ide with a sleeping bag, you’ll get wet.
f you sleep inside a tent with a floor
r ground cloth under the bag, you’ll
8 dry, should weather be inclement.

While sleeping bags are but one item
f camping, equal care should be taken
vith the purchase of cooking equip-

ent, lanterns, tentage, packs, ruck-
acks, and so on. Unfortunately for
any, experience is the best teacher,
-nd many people have become sadder
ut wiser after an unfortunate camping
xperience due to inadequate or infer-

or equipment. . . .
ARTHUR B. CANDELL, Emerson
School, Exeter, New Hampshire.

ust Looking

 

eproduced by permission.
{9 1955 The New Yorker Magazine. Inc.

IIE FIRST TIME the skin diver goes
under the surface of the sea hc
l-ccomes a looker. Before he announces
limself as a spearman, he must first be

first seeks it. Because there is so much

 

designed by a
champion for
championship
performance

   

.AmericunlApprmted _ _

World’s Finest Official Regulation Board

lifetime Construction, Unequaled Performance and Safety

RADICALlY DIFFERENT in design and
construction, unequaled 1n perform-
ance by any other board you’ve seen.

BUIlT lIKE AN AIRPLANE WING—
Aircraft structural design combined
with spring—leaf principle and heat-
tempered, specially alloyed aluminum
are joined in an assembly of great
strength, uniform flexibility and
incomparable springing qualities.

PRACTICAtLY UNBREAKABlE — Many
times stronger than actual load re-
quirements—will withstand severest
use day after day, yet continue to
give unmatched performance and
maximum springing action year after
year, free of repairs or replacement.

SPRING-lEAF CONSTRUCTION gives
much greater strength at fulcrum
where needed, and lightness at tlp.

PATENTS
PENDING

EXCLUSIVE DISTRIBUTORS

WORlD‘S lARGEST MANUFACTURERS OF FINE
PARK, PICNIC. PLAYGROUND, SWIMMING
POOL AND DRESSING ROOM EQUIPMENT

frantic II A I.

,IAsB

  
  
  
 
  

EFFORTLESS TAKE-OFFS, MORE HEIGHT
WITH uss EFFORT—No other board
has such buoyant springing qualities
or is so stable underfoot. Built-in
resilience lasts as long as the board.

SAFEST DIVING BOARD EVER DESIGNED
—Aircraft structure eliminates
torque (twisting action) at tip of the
board. Battleship Safety Tread, 18”
wide, safest non—slip covering known.

WEIGHS “:35 than conventional wood

or coated wood boards, easier to in-
stall or remove. The only board that
fits any regulation diving standard.

ENDS BROKEN BOARD PROBlEM—
eliminates repair and replacement
expense indefinitely, pays for itself
in a few years. The entire board is
anodized for permanent protection
against salt water and all corrosion.

No. APL-14 Lifetime Aluminum Board
14’ long, weight 130 lbs. . . . $329.50

No. APL—l 6 Lifetime Aluminum Board
16’ long, weight 140 lbs. . . . $349.50

for Literature
._...J“"“‘“

 

w

AERICAN

PLAYGROUND DEVICE CO.
ANDERSON, INDIANA, U.S. A. I,

-—-"

J

-'I"I.-"-

 

Wear Your Golden Age Club Pln Wlth
Prlde Wherever You May 60
Designed by representatives
of over 100 Golden Age clubs

and used nationally.
' Gold colored metal with

evergreen tree in jewelers'

 

a looker. He can’t spear a fish unless he : {I 

enamel. Symbolic of long life,
I EXACT 5'15 stren h and perseverance.

The words LOVE, LAY, LEARN, SERVE
(greatest values of club membership) en-
ameled in black. The border is a laurel
wreath for honor. Safety catch.

I Available Only to Authentic Clubs.

501: each, mlnlmum order IO plus.
22 N. 6th Street

lame! Spencer 5 (0. Philadelphia 6, Pa.

  
 

of interest to see, even the man who I “‘1. FQGSION BUIL f
has predetermined to practice a spe- .‘OQ‘ALITY GU " ED

cialty immediately upon entering the I K‘s

Write for Our :11 use catalog. I

water becomes fascinated with the lure I V“
n n 'I’ I n n n I-
r

to look and look. 513471.136 cmw
A NEW VERSION or BIRD-WATCHING—~ 370 NORIH MARQUEITE. FOND DU LAC. WIS.
Some underwater enthusiasts never ‘ - - - - - - -

 

MAY 1958

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 149

 

the new low cost

RUBBERIZED
PLAYGROUND

Saf—Pla is the new rubberized playground surfacing material that
greatly reduces injuries from falling on hard, abrasive or unsurfaced
playgrounds. According to statements made recently by playground
directors, where Saf—Pla was installed, there has been a noticeable decrease
in bruises, abrasions and cuts from children falling, and in sOrne cases
there have been no accident reports at all. No miraculous results are
claimed, but, for all normal purposes, where children are running and
playing it has been proved that painful accidents will be reduced or
eliminated. Saf-Pla can be applied to black top, concrete or
properly surfaced areas.

write for bulletin no. 13

RUBBER RECLAIMING CO..

BOX 365 BU'FFALO 5, NEW YORK

The PERMANENT MULll-UNIT aluminum . . . . . . BUBKBUARD

The ONLY sensible answer
to the springboard
problem

 

   

\6
e
ow

The

0,, ONLY springboard

“,oo‘ ever designed to permit
practical repairs.

The ONLY metal board with

l‘

“a-

Llnapproached  3 __ ,1 “we sulticient tlexibility with the
largdbgltgrigaonnag‘mg * a, - ' ‘ gages“ fulcrum set at a normal distance
6 O

MAKES ALL OTHER DIVING BOARDS OBSOLETE

NORMAN BUCK MEG. (0. Seattle 2, Wash.

2332-4 Easllake

AMERICA’S FINEST ATHLETIC BALLS
" FOR EVERY AGE GROUP,

PRICE OR SKILL —

NEW YORK 11
CHICAGO 11'
L08 ANOELES ll

 

150

  
     
   
 
  
 
     

4—4;,_—_—____._—-

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

graduate from the looking stage. The
are simply satisfied to study life under
the sea. It is forever moving; there is

. no static life. In the calmcst seas the

rooted plants keep swaying with the
underwater currents. Even when fish.
appear to be suspended motionless in
water, they are not completely idle. Let
a tasty tidbit flow past them, and they
immediately scoop it up. Unless, of
course, they’re sleeping. Or do fish
sleep? Who knows? They have no eye-
lids, and we have no way of knowing if
they are asleep since their eyes are
always open. When you spend a lot of
time watching fish, you begin to wonder
about things like that. You get to feel
pretty friendly with fish.

Consider the man I know who has
taken to the sport with particular de-
light. N 0 other pastime pleases him any
longer. His investment: a Scott Hydro-
Pak, lead weight, flippers, mask, knife,
and a policeman’s billy to which
he’s fastened a sharp Spike for fending
off large fish. He dives down to depths
not exceeding sixty feet, selects a rock
or coral head, and there he sits. Lately,
he’s invested in a lead-weighted alumi-
num and canvas yacht chair. He sits in
the chair on the ocean bottom and sim-
ply watches life revolve around him.
Says he, “The waters belong to the fish.
I’m not an intruder—just an observer.”

The “lockers” can be divided into
three progressive classes: those who
look from the surface with mask and
snorkel, riding the surface waves;
those who drift down to three and five
feet, examining coral heads, rocks,
kelp beds, eelgrass, and the exciting
colorful fauna that is ever moved by
the underwater currents; and those who
graduate to lower levels—twenty and
thirty feet and beyond, for the more
hearty. By the time they are that, far
down, they are seasoned skin divers.—

From The Underwater World by John
Tassos, published by Prentice-Hall,_lnc.

 

PLEASE

All manuscripts submitted
for publication in RECREA-
TION should be double-
spaced, have good margins,
and should be a first copy

NOT a carbon!

 

RECREATION

Editorial

HAT THIS IS THE AGE of science there can be no doubt. Re-

search has proceeded at such a giddy speed that the text-
ook of today is obsolete tomorrow, and the physical theo-
ries which we painfully studied in our college days are now
referred to somewhat patronizingly as “classical” physics
by the high-energy physicists of today.

The man of art can do no more than gasp with wonder and
admiration at the accomplishments of his scientific brother.

he modern scientist has knowledge and technical facilities
at his disposal not even dreamed of by Archimedes, Coper-
nicus, or Newton. In at least one sense, the bright col-
lege graduate of today in science is already a “better” phy-
icist than the great ones of the past. For the sciences are
umulative, each decade adding its contribution, large or
mall, to the accumulated knowledge of the past and being
'tself the possessor of the whole.

In the arts this is not so. Who would dare claim that
he greatest architect of today is necessarily more capable
than the builder of the cathedrals at Chartres and Milan?
Who would dare speak of the “progress” of music from
Palestrina or Bach to the music of today—or indeed of the
“advance” of the arts of painting, sculpture, or literature?

No, the arts are noncumulative. They represent rather
the changing mores of their times. They change, they vary,
rom century to century, each period striving painfully to
rpress itself through its creative artists, each striving to
effect the Zeitgeist, the time-spirit, of its own age but with
a o assurance of “progress” in the scientific sense. Indeed,
_ rt may be more than content if it can show no regression
- 0m some of the golden ages of the past.

And yet, with all of these handicaps, the worker in thc

manities has no real cause for discouragement, for in
his age of science we are making the important discovery
-f what science cannot do. Science can kill or cure, heal or
I aim, but it cannot, of itself, minister to man’s spiritual
leeds. It cannot supply him with the sustenance his soul
emands.

Scicnce can get him from New York to London faster than
c has ever traveled before in history, but it cannot, of itself,
ive meaning to his trip. Pcrhaps he should go slowcr—or
erhaps stay at home. Our mental hospitals are being too
apidly filled with people who have gone too fast, and, per-
laps, with no purpose; with men and women who have
urned out their bearings racing the motor. And of what
alue are the airplane and the myriad other time-saving de-
ices if we do not learn to use profitably the time we have
avcd?

Am I suggesting that we turn back the clock, givc Man-

1-.—

R. HANSON has been director of the Eastman School of
usic, University of Rochester, Rochester, New York, since

924. Article is reprinted with permission, NEA Journal,
' ebruary 1958.

 

The Arts in an
Age of Science

Howard Hanson

hattan back to the Indians, the telegraph back to Mr. Mar-
coni, and color television back to General Sarnoff? Almost,
but not quite!

I am, rather, suggesting that we cannot expect too much
from science. Thc miracles which come out of the labora-
tory possess neither mind nor soul. They are ours to use as
we will, but their possession does not carry with it any guar-
antee that we will have thc wisdom to use them properly.
This is strictly up to us. We can create a bright new world
or blow ourselves out of it.

How shall humanity escape atomic annihilation? Obvi-
ously not by addition of a six-hour course in nuclear phy-
sics. Rather, we must give to young men and women a sense
of purpose, a basic interest in something, a faith in the im-
portance of human life. Around this basic interest, we may,
I believe, build a kind of centripetal philosophy of education
which has meaning and significance. The arts, by develop-
ing greater perceptivity of the eyes and ears as well as the
mind, will increase the sensitivity of the human spirit. And
man, through that sensitization, may find his own soul. I

151

 

A-‘n-w—_———_-

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
  
  

Atlantic City Highlights

At the 40th National
Recreation Congress

September 22 to 26, 1958

This year our annual national Congress—a very impor-
tant one—jumps from the Pacific to the Atlantic Ocean;
and you can’t afford to miss it!

Be Sure to Bring . . .

a bathing suit, sport clothes, walking shoes, a lightweight
top coat, sunglasses, and square-dancing clothes.

Hotel Reservations

The Hotel Ambassador, on the Boardwalk, will act as
headquarters for the week. Ambassador rates are:
Single rooms—$8, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20 per day
Double rooms—$10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20, 22 per day
Reservations at this, or nearby hotels, should be made
through the Congress Housing Office at the Ambassador.
Room rates are determined by size and location although
most rooms have an ocean view anyhow. Designate your
requirements, and every effort will be made to fulfill these
requests in the Ambassador, or, if not available there, in
hotels close by. Remember single rooms are at a premium,
and expenses can be greatly reduced by doubling up!

Exhibits

Exhibit plans are progressing, and one of the most ex-
tensive displays of recreation equipment—much of it new
and modern—will be available on the mezzanine.

Meeting Theme

“ . , “"1!-
The theme, Recreatlon Enters the Space Age, ’ does not

mean that recreation leaders should turn their attention

152

\ o
@623 PHILADELPHIA

 

completely to outer space, but emphasizes the fact that the
must be concerned with some of the recreation needs an
masts in a sputnik-centered, bomb-testing world. In t

next year, all-out support will be given to science, and t

interpretive, educational job to be done on the importan
of recreation today lies at the door of the recreation fiel
High school courses already include courses in ballisti
rocketry, astrOphysics; what about the recruiting of st

dents for recreation? Is this still important, and why
Will we be able to increase our greatly needed recreatio
majors? What can counterbalance what, at this poin
threatens to become an outer-space hysteria? What shoul
America’s point of view about recreation be? Think abo

it in the coming months before the Congress. I

How to Get There by Car

 

't

ROUTE 30
‘x \

NEW YORKCI
I I9 MILES -

6| MILES

RECREATI

  
  

 

Senior Citizens’

 

I
MAY 1958 .

Editorially Speaking

May
is

Month

Westchester youngsters go fishin

 
   

F ONE would understand older peo-
I ple, one should first forget age.
Oldness is not so much passing a certain
birthday as it is the rearrangement of a
complicated sct of physical, mental
social, and economic circumstances,
One must not label a man who has lived
a lot of years as an old person. For an
individual who has early formed good
habits of living, picked up the important
techniques of adjustment, and acquired
a good attitude of philosophy, life con-
tinues to be an ever increasing adven-
ture in development; deve10pment can
continue at sixty, seventy, and eighty
as surely as it did in youth.—Dr. Wil-
liam B. Terhune, Associate Clinical

Professor of Psychiatry, Yale School of
Medicine, Quote, January 16, 1955.

Recreation in the Age of Science

The scientific advances we read
about in every newspaper and magazine
seem far removed from the normal
sc0pe of our conferences. Interested
though we may be in atomic fission and
fusion, solar energy, and all the other
recent discoveries and developments,
they may appear to have little con-
nection with the recreation executive.

Nevertheless, at this moment when
mankind, still unable to live in peace
on one small planet, is reaching out
toward the stars, it is vitally important
that we who have a part in formulating
recreation policies should be dynamic-
ally aware of the basic philOSOphy of
our profession, its potential influence in
shaping tomorrow’s civilization.

Recreation has no need to justify it-
self; it is a necessity of life. It is most
important in times of stress, when man's
need to re-create physical and mental
vigor and re-establish emotional bal-
ance is deepest. It is one of the great
coordinating forces. Pe0ple with di-
vergent educational backgrounds and
political beliefs may find their only
common meeting ground in their fav-
orite leisure-time interests . . .

Now, as perhaps never before, is the
time to offer recreational opportunities

so rich and varied that they will capture

everyone’s interest, to set standards of
quality that call for everyone’s best ef-
fort, and to provide these Opportunities
in an atmOSphere of free choice and
good fellowship that includes and en-
courages everyone . . .—Joseph Pren-
dergast, executive director, National
Recreation Association, in a statement
apearing on the program of every 1958
NRA District Recreation Conference.

 

Editor Attends a Conference

Y’all should visit the Southeastern
District Recreation Conference of the
National Recreation Association, for
the states of Alabama, Florida, Georgia,
Mississippi and South Carolina—where
they have a flair for making an attend-
ance of over two hundred delegates
seem like a lil’ ol’ homey group of about
twenty-five, and where a Yankee gal or
guy can become a Southern belle or
colonel overnight!

It is a fine feeling to go to meetings
wearing a camellia fresh from the gar-
dens, after being recently accustomed
to resting the eyes only upon the ubiqui-
tous snowdrift. Every meeting Was full
to overflowing with members of the
district recreation family, with the ad-
dition of a few visiting kinsfolk.

Some of the especially good, or at
times “different,” points about the con-
ference, that impressed us in addition
to the many things to be learned, were:

0 Its sincere friendliness, lack of for-
mality, warm hospitality.

O The introduction of cxhibitors of rec-
reation equipment at the very begin-
ning of the opening session, and asking
each to say a few words.

0 Participation of recreation majors
from nearby colleges, and the excellent
fieldwork they are doing.

0 The general concern for recruiting,
job evaluation, other good personnel
practices.

0 The number of people who expected
to hire somebody while attending. (A
good place to find college-trained wo-
men leaders.)

0 The area studies being made of rec-
reation titles, especially by the Florida
Recreation Society.

0 The terrific attendance at the banquet
(180) on the last evening.

0 The delicious food, and eSpecially
the outdoor “fish fry.”

0 The genuine devotion to and high re-
gard for Ralph Van Fleet, NRA district

representative.

This, of course, was but one of the
spring district recreation conferences
taking place throughout the country.
The others, we are sure, were interesting
for their own reasons; and perhaps they
can be visited on some other date.

In the meantime, thank you South-
easterners! DD.

153

‘u-uuuuun—I—I—unu—‘n—m—I—u

 

EVERY DAY thirty-four hundred
Americans reach the normal re-
tirement age of sixty-five, according
to the US. Census Bureau. To most of
these thirty-four hundred, this is a bit-
ter day. They do not face “retirement”
as a new phase of life but as a vacuum
preceding death. The country’s labor
unions, which have played a major role
in insuring that their members can re-
tire with some measure of economic
security, have come to realize that they
must also provide a measure of emo-
tional and social security. It is more
than economic compulsion driving the
average worker to try to hold on to his
job, according to Walter Reuther, presi-
dent of the United Automobile, Aircraft
and Agricultural Implement Workers
(UAW). He says: “This is his life. If
you take away punching a time clock
and going to work and don’t provide
something else to fill that vacuum then
he will wither up and blow away.” The
New Jersey Old Age Study Commission
fully agrees with this viewpoint and
adds further, “Without a job to give
. . . ‘who-ness’ and ‘what-ness’ a per-
son [loses] identity and status in the
family and community.”

Cooperation Needed

In trying to provide a meaningful life
for their retired workers, the labor
unions have found it necessary to set

MRS. DELANY, free-lance researcher and
writer, does special assignments for
RECREATION Magazine.

154

Elvira Delany|

Steps are being taken by labor unions to

supplement community facilities and pro-

grams for the leisure time of retired workers.

After the Job —

up programs and centers to supplement
the local community efforts. At the
same time they are anxious to inte-
grate their efforts with those of the com-
munity and draw upon its resources.
The next few years will see an ever-
growing line of “drop-in” centers, with
full-time programs and personnel, being
set up by union locals across the coun-
try. These will be full-fledged centers
offering a full program of recreation
and adult education activities.

Union Centers

Typical of this expanding phase of
union activity are the centers developed
by the United Auto Workers, pioneered
in Detroit and now Spreading to many
other cities, by the Amalgamated Cloth-
ing Workers of America, which last year
turned over one floor of its New York
City health center to retired workers,
and through the well-rounded activities
offered by the Retail, Wholesale and
Department Store Union’s District 65,
also in New York City. According to
the New York State Department of La-
bor, “. . . enough has already been ac-
complished by unions to show they are
in an unexcelled position to make a no-
table contribution, both to their own re-
tired members and to the community as
a whole.”

The UAW program started out in
mild fashion in Detroit in 1951 with
monthly meetings for retirees in five
areas. These included community
singing, refreshments, entertainments,
speakers and discussions on matters of

concern to older people. However, it
soon became evident, according to a
union report, “that there was a need to
develop a program whereby they [re-
tired workers] could meet more often
in smaller groups in a place of their own
where they could engage in a compre-
hensive program which would provide
opportunities for the productive and
satisfying use of the free day-time hours
. . . As a result we opened the first of
three centers on the east side of Detroit
in February of 1953. The second center
was opened on the west side . . . in Feb

ruary of 1954 and the third center lo

cated in Hamtramck . . . in October 0

1954.”

Because the retired workers first vis
ualized the centers as places where the
could drop in to chat with their fellows
they became “drop-in centers.”

The three centers are open Monday
through Fridays from 9:30 A.M. t
3:30 P.M., and the program includ
educational and cultural activities; ho
bies, parties, games activities and mo
ies; visitation of the home-bound; r
ferrals regarding health, housing, e
ployment, and prosthetic devices; cou
selling on personal problems and inte
personal relations; discussion of co
munity problems; and participation i
civic affairs and community projects.

The UAW center program in Detro'
is administered by the union’s old
and retired workers department,
rected by Charles E. Odell. UAW re
reation director, Olga Madar, has bee
primarily responsible for the recre

II

 
 
  
 
   
  
  
  
  
 
    
   
   
 
  
   
 
  

RECREATIO

ion aSpects of the retired workers pro-
;ra1n. It has been financed by the
Inion with the exception of a grant
row the United Community Services
or salaries of directors at the centers.
ill four members of the UAW drOp-in
enter staff are employed under job
heets approved by United Community
iervices,under the general classification
pf group work and recreation. One has
. master’s degree in health education
nd recreation, one is a social case-

What?

orker with a master’s degree in social

  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
   
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
 
   
  

sework; and two are completing their
urses for a master’s degree in group
ork. Working committees of retirees
lp direct activities at each center.

Further Growth

The UAW is currently training per-
nnel and readying new centers in the
ew York City area. Plans include the
ssibility of joining forces with other
ions if a local does not have the num-
r of retirees to warrant an indepen-
nt center.
In all, there are about thirty com-
unities in which the UAW has played
leading role in getting some type of
011p education and recreation pro-
a1n started for senior citizens, includ-
its own members. These range from
~scale activity centers to the provi-
of lounge space in local union halls.
a" most recent development is the
ning of a drop-in center in Water-
ry, Connecticut, which is housed in a
01 building and staffed by a city
ployee from the department of parks
1 recreation.
Retired members of the Retail,
iblesale and Departmcnt Store
ion’s District 65 in New York City
set themselves up as a self-consti-
il local and take part in all union
'vities in addition to pursuing their
special programs. They utilize the
on’s modern air-conditioned build-
in Greenwich Village and enjoy a
'ety of activities at least three days
the week, supervised by a full-time

1958

 

Retired UA‘V worker in Delroil pursues an interesting leisure-lime ac1iv-
ity. A hobby can be carried over and fully developed during laler life.

director, Jack Ossofsky, himself a grad-
uate of the union’s ranks. On a typical
Tuesday the “senior 65ers” may have
one group rolling bandages for the Am-
erican Cancer Society, while another
group paints and sketches under the
guidance of a skilled fellow retiree. The
next night the retirees may have a week-
ly social, see a movie, have a discussion,
sing songs, play quiet games, and wind
up with refreshments. Also there are
typing and language classes, meetings
on current social and labor legislation,
or visiting shut-in members. Commun-
ity activities are keyed to community
service, include toy workshops at Christ-
mas and Chanukah, and Red Cross proj-
ects. A choral group is now forming
under the leadership of a retiree who
has led a Gilbert and Sullivan group.

;. if

New York Cily union aetivilies inelnde arl in various forms under the
guidanee of skilled fellow relirees, soeials, games, and diseussions.

155

The Amalgamated Clothing Work-

ers center, off New York’s historic
Union Square, offers some seven thous-
and retired garment workers such facil-
ities as a play room, containing the
latest color-television equipment, radio
sets, high-fidelity tape and disc record
players, chess and checker sets; a well-
stocked library and reading room; and
a kitchenette for light refreshments. An
important part of the center is a four-
room school that not only teaches arts
and crafts but extension courses under
the direction of the School of Industrial
and Labor Relations, Cornell Univers-
ity, and the city board of education.
Mental health, according to one ger-
ontologist, is “contagious”——and these
union centers have started an idea
which, it is h0ped, will be “catching.”

Q "' "' M"“"""“" “' 'm

———-*-
I

 

Bus Trips for Senior Citizens

Programs for this age group have mushroomed into
one of the major concerns of many local recreation departments.

This is especially true in Aurora, Illinois.

THERE IS ALWAYS a new approach to known and familiar
- things. This is true in one facet of the recreation pro-
gram provided for the senior residents of Aurora, Illinois, by
the playground and recreation department. It is the use
of charter buses for short trips to local points of interest;
and selling the idea of these trips to the older adult members
of the Friendly Center Club is a carefully planned and
executed project.

As a group, older adults tend to become timid and are
prone to limit their activities to the narrow confines of the
familiar and often repeated “order-of-the-day” living. This
typical fear of new things and unaccustomed eXperiences
frequently becomes pronounced to such a degree that the
person is held in a vise of almost complete inactivity. Out-
side planned stimulation is often beneficial and frequently
provides a means of escape from an otherwise cheerless
existence.

The diminishing stamina of the aged must be kept in
mind when planning recreation activities of practical value
to this group. In arranging a bus trip there are many things
to remember, and first, and foremost, in importance is:
will it be fun? Sugar-coat all obviously educational trips
with fun and glamour. Second, taking into consideration
the disabilities of an older group, the safety factors must
be weighed for each trip. Are there long flights of stairs to
be climbed, narrow passages to be negotiated? If this is to be
a guided tour of an industrial or manufacturing plant, is
there unprotected machinery on the tour layout? Will floors
be dry or prove hazardous because of wetness or excessive
wax? If this is to be an outdoor excursion, are distances
too great and terrain too rugged?

Third, keep in mind the cost of the trip to each individual.
By prorating the cost of the thirty-seven-passenger charter
bus, fares can be kept at a practical minimum. Transporta-
tion costs and the additional eXpense of the ever-important
refreshments must be within the range of limited budgets.

Above everything, fun is the most, important ingredient
for a successful charter bus trip. The memory of a happy
day will be relived many times in retrospect and thereby
provide not just one day’s pleasure but many hours of
quiet enjoyment.

In planning, make out a time schedule, listing time of
bus loading, refreshment stops, and tour appointments.
Make explicit arrangements with the public relations depart-
_____________________________—————_
MRS. BENNETT is director of the Friendly Center Club for the
senior citizens of Aurora, Illinois, established in 1951.

156

June Benn:

mcnts of institutions to be visited, for guide and recepti
service. Plan with restaurants willing to serve one or mc
busloads of passengers to accommodate the group at a d
inite time. By these advance contacts the excursionists z
assured a friendly reception at each place visited.

The director must build up anticipation of an intrigui
trip so the older adult who wants to do something differt
and is looking for adventure, will want to take the trip.
Aurora, we announce the trip at a general club meetil
giving members practical information about date, time
loading and return, and prices, for their personal pla
Then, we “pull out all the stops” and in the most glowi
terms describe what they will see and do.

The final step in making the trip successful rests with 1

director on the day of the trip. If all the passengers :
treated as personal guests, with all the courtesies careft
observed, the group is relaxed and gay. They are grateful
personal comments on a hat or dress, a query about th
arthritic knee, and solicitudc in regard to their individ

comfort during the day.

Bus trips Sponsored by the Aurora Playground and B
reation Department for older adults, who must be si
years or older to take advantage of the general recreat
program, have been planned to interest even the most c2
olic taste. Trips have included tours of the Chicago B0.
of Trade; Marshall Field’s famed department sto
“Mooseheart,” the fabulous Moose Lodge “City of Ch
hood”; American Air Lines at Midway Airport; Lipton '
Company; General Motors spectacular “Powerama” :
the Chicago Industrial Fair; large commcrcial baker
state game farms; and pottery works. “Just-for-fun” t]
have included journeys to large lake areas to picnic, sii
seeing boat trips on Lake Michigan, big league basd
games, the Ice Follies, visits to zoos, yearly tours of the 1
to see the Christmas decorations.

Aloneness is the most enervating tragedy of age.
pe0ple past sixty years of age usually go riding alon
moonlit river or drive on icy pavements for miles to
gayly decorated and lighted homes at holiday time?
too few have such an opportunity; yet lack of opportLE
does not indicate lack of desire. I

A director of older adult activities with a clear inu'
into the problems confronting this age group can, thro
judicious use of trips and excursions, augmcnt the aci
ties of golden agers and bring an added glow of hap
to their lives, taking off that sharp edge of lonelines

RECRE

J ackel

 

You call it! Out, or safe at second?

Softball, as informal recreation for men, is still proving its value.

'I SUCCESSFUL SOFTBALL program for men over twenty-

one is being offered by the Jewish Community Center in
tlanta, Georgia. Under the health and physical education
mmittee, more than one hundred men participate in a pro-

   
  
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
    
  

ram running from May 1 through August 28. More than
inety men show up to play twice each week. All partici-
. nts are center members. Games are played on Thursday
.s enings under the floodlights and on Sunday mornings on
e center’s excellent softball fields. Rooters, kibitzers, and
ectators often include the entire family of the participants.
' re than seventy-five per cent of the players are married.
. This program is a result of planning which began in 1951,
1611 the director of the AJCC Health and Physical Educa-
11 Department and the committee developed a softball
gue for men. This league was to provide outdoor athletic
ivity for members who previously had little or no involve-
nt with the center, and to bring new membership. Both
jectives were attained.

Prior to 1951, only a few of the Jewish social clubs and
- Jewish \Var Veterans’ chapter had attempted men’s soft-
I leagues. These were unsuccessful because of forfeits,
rrels, or games between teams of unequal strength.

The committee realized that, in order to establish a suc-
sful league, it was necessary first to study the errors of
predecessors, and thus avoid the obvious pitfalls. This
. accomplished by:

1. Breaking up existing and potential cliques.

2. Separating troublemakers and hotheads.

3. Distributing good hitters and fielders evenly.

4.

5.

'I

Dispersing the very poor players.
Selecting strong players and natural leaders as cap-
tains.

ON

. Setting up suitable league regulations.

. Ensuring enforcement of league rules by appointing
a strong and impartial league commissioner.

8. Charging an activity fee.

-~J

. JACKEL is director of health and physical education,
anta Jewish Community Center, Georgia.

Y 1958

9. Providing topnotch equipment.
10. Hiring competent umpires.
11. Starting all games on scheduled time (game forfeit
time.)

12. Insisting that each team closely abide by league rules.

Certain procedures embodied in the league rules have a
great deal to do with its success. Many were decided upon
after heated debate and through the trial and error of com-
petitive play. Teams are generally composed of fourteen or
fifteen players; the number varying because men are drop-
ped or added as the season progresses. A player pool was
established from which the commissioner could assign rated
players to a team according to its needs; thus, vacations and
trips by salesmen or professionals don’t hurt 'the league.

During prcseason practice games, the committee makes
notes until the rating and evaluation meeting is held. The
4.0 system is used. Most players fit into the 3.0 or 3.5 cate-
gory with a few above and a few below. Each team is as-

"signed a certain number of 4.0’s, 3.5’s, and so on. Teams

are balanced according to fielding and batting strength.

Each team fields ten players, the tenth man playing short
centerfield. This enables an additional player to see action
for each team and tightens up outfield coverage. This is

necessary since only three-quarter speed pitching (judged by

the umpires) is allowed. It is the committee’s intention to
avoid no-hit or one-hit ball games. To play day after day
and not hit the ball solidly can become very frustrating.
Three-fourth speed pitching should not be confused with
slow-ball pitching. It is true that men strike out occasionally
and some are called out on strikes, but few are completely
baffled by the opposing pitcher. Occasionally, games go to
double figures but no football scores have ever resulted. A
glance through the scorebook reveals such game totals as
8-5, 7-3, 4-2, 6-5 and so on. Results indicate that this is
a scoring league, that the players are hitting the ball and
running bases, and that fielding is an important part.

The fact that pitchers and pitching do not dominate
should be carefully noted. To say that pitching had no bear-
ing on the game would be erroneous. However, it is not the

‘157

 

.- — M m-
" __ . .m —-.=»-

preponderant factor it is in competitive softball or baseball.

In fact, playoffs have been necessary to determine which _,

teams would meet for the championship. Once, three teams
wound up in a tie for first place. One thing was immediately
realized in the formation of the league——everyone who
came down should play. This is clearly the pattern during
practice games and throughout league play. Each man who
appears on the field plays a minimum of five innings during
each and every ball game. Tardy players are not always al-
lowed to play. Players absent for two consecutive games can
be suspended by the league commissioner. Exceptions are
made for vacations and extenuating circumstances.

Stalling is virtually eliminated, and necessarily so, since
games are played within time limits. Protests have to be de-
clared first on the field and then submitted in writing within
forty-eight hours. A five-dollar fee, which accompanies the
protest, is retained if the protest is not upheld. Umpires
strongly enforce the rule stating that only team captains and
players involved in the play may discuss the decision. Players
are ejected for failure to comply.

The theme of the league is “heads-up baseball.” The em-
phasis is on strategy and team play. Unlimited base steal-
ing is permitted. Teams bunt hits as well as sacrifices. Play-
ers hit behind the runner. A well-placed hit is often ap-

plauded more loudly than a long ball. Coaching, team si

nals, “cutoffs,” and “backing up” are all taken for grante
One of the league problems was concerned with “Washe

out” games. This is covered by deliberately leaving gaps fo

“makeups” in the tail end of the schedule. An addition

ruling is that only games which have had a bearing on th

championship must be made up. Each year men are adde

to or removed from the softball committee. Commissione -

serve for two years; Team captains are chosen each seaso .
Some of the rules not touched upon above are:

0 Replacements can only be secured through the leagu

committee and the athletic director.

0 Player waived down on intentional pass.

0 Overthrows in foul territory—-~the runner may advan -

one base and runner must make it.

o Foul balls behind the ropes or on the banks are not i

play.

0 The team hitting a ball over the fence must make an ho

est effort to retrieve it.

0 If a player interferes with the fielding of a ball or fiel

play, the batter or the farthest advanced runner is out.

o The winner of the first half of play will meet the winne

of the second half for the League Championship.

0 At least five innings must be played to complete a gam

Yardstick for Middle Age

Full living during one age is the best
preparation for abundant living in the
next. Thus effective living during mid-
dle age, forty to fifty-five, is the best
preparation for rich living in later ma-
turity and retirement.

The following criteria can be help-
ful as a yardstick for measuring the
effectiveness of your middle age. .

1. Have you a hobby you enjoy alone?
Some, among many interests to choose
from, are crafts, painting, collecting,
fishing, and music.

2. Have you a group-participation
hobby? Interest groups in drama,
dancing,‘ bridge, art, and gardening
furnish wonderful opportunities here.
3. Have you a special recreation inter-
est for indoors, (winter) and for out-
doors (summer)? Swimming, camp-
ing, badminton, golf are for outdoors,
of course, while reading, collecting, and
so on, can add richness to indoor hours.
4. Are you related in any way to some
civic organization? Membership on
Community committees, improvement
associations, political parties, PTA, and

DR. EDGREN is professor' of recreation
leadership, Purdue University, Lafay-
ette, Indiana.

158

supporting voluntary community agen-
cies are rewarding experiences.

5. Are you a member of a social group
of your own age? Active participation
in neighborhood social events, clubs,
home parties, celebrations with friends,
travel groups, and outdoor picnics can
add to enjoyable living. _

6. Are you involved in some organiza-
tion within the church? The church
offers an unusual opportunity for per-
sonal identification, a sense of belong-
ing, and the development of personal
friendships through events.

7. Are you undertaking some new ad-
venture you can continue for many
years? With family responsibilities les-
sened and work patterns set, this is the
time for undertaking some new experi-
ence you may have postponed. It may
be a new physical skill, an art form, a
new language, or a course of study.

8. Have you discovered some interest-
ing activity in which you and your
spouse can participate? Some couples
enjoy square dance clubs, photography,
fishing, golf, travel, music groups,
study groups, family gardening, or
some “do-it-yourself” activity.

9. Are you supporting, with time,
money, or energy, some cause that is

Harry D. Edgren

l

l

l
greater than yourself? The man .‘
youth-serving organizations, Scout
YMCA, YWCA, the church, hospital
civic organizations, UNESCO are a fer
of the organizations needing you.
10. Do you enjoy sharing activities 0
experiences with your children a .
grandchildren? The regular planni
of family outings, trips, shows, an .-
plays, eXpeditions to points of intere I
are ways of continuing family ties. 1
11. Have you a definite plan of savin
for future use? Saving a portion u
your earnings for some specific use
travel, a new business, or a home—-
not only a necessity but can be a joi
adventure for husband and wife.
12. Do you have a yearly medical chec ‘.
up? This is mandatory for good heal
Prevention is less costly and less stra
on our physical bodies than treatmen
Medical attention to health contribut
to mental and emotional well being.

Middle age can be a new prime I

life, with the parental and homemak
roles diminished, that of the worker le
significant, but with friendship and u
of leisure time gaining in importan
If your middle age is rewardineg ad
quate, you are well prepared to me
the challenge of later maturity. I

RECREATIr

 
   

wimming Pools
 for Water Fun

  

building in Brooklinc, Massachusetts,
ed one of the country’s first municipal

s, constructed at a cost of $40,000.
'I

I

   
 

     
   
       
 
 
 
  
   
 
  
   
 
 

s,

: I

ctr-w:-

New $751,000 pool now replacing it will double the swimming program.

the old gives way to the need

- American swimming pool—indoors and out, of all
. and sizes—is becoming an accepted institution across
untry. The old standard oblong has metamorphosed
1e shape of an egg, a kidney, an L, a T, even a wedge,
outdoor form.

asual glance at the latest construction figures reveals
azing development of the last ten years. According
New York Times, the swimming pool industry’s rapid
I is topped only by that of electronics. There are now
0 pools of all varieties in the country, an increase of
200 per cent since 1948! Half are on the Pacific
although, percentage-wise, the greatest increase is
East Coast and in the Midwest. During the last ten
here has been a 295 per cent increase in the number

   

SWIMMING POOL SECTION

. owned by a municipality, county, or community,
g Y’s, schools, and institutions. I

. 8 159

 

Construction of T
The Pool That Made History

In 1917 the National Recreation Association issued a pamphlet about

the construction of this pool, and the building which housed it,
to be used as a pattern by other communities.

The last swimmer climbed from the
old indoor municipal swimming pool in
Brookline, Massachusetts, on Thurs-
day, August 30, 1956, marking the end
of the trail for the sixty-one-year-old
recreation facility. This pool, which,
insofar as is known, was the first munic-
ipally operated one in the United States,
has recently been torn down to make
way for a new $751,000 pool, enabling
the recreation department to more than
double its present swimming program.

The old pool, which set a pattern for
municipalities throughout the country,
threw open its doors for the first time in
1895. Constructed around a 26’ by 80'
swimming area, the building cost only
$40,000. Instead of a single area for
all swimmers, there will be three pools—-
diving, teaching, and a 42’ by 75' swim-
ming pool. Total water area will be
5,130 square feet, compared to the pre-
vious 2,080.

Proposed capacity is 174 swimmers,
while the old pool held only seventy-
seven. Lockers will be increased from
fifty-six to 216, and toilet, lavatory, and

shower stalls will also increase. The

new deck area will be 3,644 feet as
against the old 2,673.

Need for a new facility was created
by deterioration, plus increased popu-
lation over the past sixty-one years.
In 1895, the thriving town boasted
17,000 citizens; today, this figure is
close to 60,000; however, the pool’s
physical condition was the main factor
in prompting town agencies to seek a
completely new swimming facility.
Health department studies had shown
the pool “to be marginal from a health
and sanitation standpoint.” Water leak-

MR. LYNCH is director of recreation,
Brookline, Massachusetts.

[00

age was a problem, and toilet facilities
were inadequate. Unless radical steps
were taken, the health department
threatened to close the pool as a health
menace.

In 1955 the town meeting approved
drawing of preliminary plans for “re-
construction or replacement” of the
pool, and the 1956 town meeting gave
the green light to the $751,000 project.

Recirculation and Filtration

The pool recirculation and filtration
system operates in a such a way that
water may be continually withdrawn
from the pool at the normal rate of 520
gallons per minute by means of bottom
outlets and scum gutter drains. After
passing through the four 7’-0” diame-
ter pressure sand filters, it is returned
to the pools through inlet orifices spac-
ed at intervals around each pool. Re-
circulation of the water is maintained
by the recirculation pump, and the rate
at which water is filtered and recircu-
lated (normally once in eight hours)
is controllcd by the rate controller.
Water for washing the sand filters is
taken from the pools through the bot-
tom outlets and by means of the wash-
water pump is pumped upward through
the filter and wasted to the sewer.

Deck Drainage

The deck drainage is taken into the
overflow gutter drain system and may
be returned to the filters or wasted to
the sewer. Another system of piping
between the pools and the suction side
of the pumps provides the vacuum nec-
essary to operate a vacuum cleaner for
cleaning the pool bottoms. Discharge
from the vacuum cleaner may be re-
turned to the filters or wasted to the
sewer; whichever method is feasible.

  
  
   
 
   
 
 
  
    
   
  
  

James J. Ly: -

Chemicals and chlorine are adde :

the recirculation system by means
the chemical-feed pumps and a s
tion-feed chlorine machine. Wate
admitted to the pools by means of a
. I
make-up tank, which acts as the .I
nection between the pool filtration s

tem and the municipal water system.

History of Old Pool

The old swimming pool was brou
forcibly to the townspeople’s attent
at the town meeting in October, 18
when a sum of $15,000 was appro
ated to build a new public bathho
on town land, with only one dissenti
vote. A cost of $25,000 was contempl
ed, but later $15,000 was appropria
bringing the total to $40,000. The I
for the building was drawn up aft
study of bathing establishments l
Europe and the United States. The a
was 80’ by 26’. The depth was t
feet to a mean depth of six feet.

Showers in 1895 were called
baths, and they were installed as a
novation, gradually taking the pla
tubs. This was to save water and ."
Included in the pool facilities were
in a separate room. There was a
pool called a plunge bath for begi
with an over-all depth of three a

half feet.
Awards

Brookline’s pool received
awards for its practical as well as I
tiful features. Long known as one .
best pools in the country, some 0
most prominent swimmers in the
have taken part in the various 5
ming activities held there ann
With fifty-eight years of use, i
shown the skeptics of years ago th I

expenditurc was well worlh it. I 

lECRE.

   

“‘  Pools

Tacoma’s New Facility

Plans for $249,000 park board pool will be

realized with a grand opening this summer.

When the first municipal swimming
pool was opened by the Metropolitan
Park Board of Tacoma, Washington, in
thc summer of 1955, it immediately at-
tained such popularity, with both chil-

lldren and adults, that the need for a
second Olympic-size pool was obvious.
In 1957, total attendance was 132,000,
and more than 3,000 children took part
in the swimming classes held every
half hour from nine to twelve in the
morning, for the small fee of fifteen
cents pcr lesson.

The major portion of the million-

I dollar millage tax approved by the
waters in 1956 was earmarked for other

improvements, but the sum of $350,-

000 was set aside for a new pool and

plans were drawn by the architectural

Ifirm of E. L. Mills and Associates.

I . embers of the schbol board, however,

I It that there was an urgent need for

Iimproving school swimming facilities

nd raised the alternative possibility of
uilding an indoor-outdoor pool at one

 

 
        
   
      
   
   
  

 

I the junior high schools. Prolonged
iscussion led to a cooperative arrange-
ent whereby two high-school indoor
013 were to be reconstructed, with the
rk board contributing $50,-
' I of its pool fund toward thc
st of this reconstruction. This
ork has been completed, and
lese and all other high-school
015 in the city are available
ter school hours and during
e summer for the park

II-
I

I

   
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
    
  

  

ard’s recreation and instruc-

recreation (Thomas W. Lantz who sup-
plied the information for this article)
and his swimming pool advisory com-
mittee sharpened their pencils and
settled down to see what could be shaved
from the plans without detracting from
appearance and operating efficiency.
The alterations made included changing
the depth of the diving pool area from
fourteen to twelve feet (some of the
city’s swimming enthusiasts are still
protesting about this); revising speci-
fications for the rollout gutter so that
overflow water will flow through a gut-
ter of concrete rather than through a
pipe; rearranging the recirculation
supply for an eight-hour rather than a
six-hour turnover, making it possible to
use a smaller filter and pipes; substi-
tuting portable for fixed vacuum clean-
ing equipment; and incandescent for
mercury vapor lights.

With these changes, the contract for
the pool was let for $249,000. The

main unit will be 75’ by 165’ with
a depth of three feet at each end slop-
ing to a maximum of five feet in the
center. (These depth dimensions have

proved most satisfactory for the popu-

 

 

  

IIIIIIIIIEWIIIIII
A
" -
I
/

 

lar swimming classes.)

The diving pool is adjacent to the
main swimming area but separate from
it, making the T-‘shaped combination
favored by many authorities. The walls
of the generous 40' by 50’ by 12’ new
diving area will be perpendicular for
five feet and will then slope at a
sixty-degree angle. Two one-meter div-
ing boards and one three-meter board
will be installed. A 30’ by 60' wading
pool, sloping to twelve feet at the deep-
est point, is to be situated at a conveni-
ent distancc from the swimming area.
Unusually wide decks surrounding the
main unit—-—nearly thirty feet at the
sides and even wider at the ends——en-
sure ample sunbathing space for the
swimmers. Spectators will be accom-
modated by bleachers erected alongside
the diving pool and separated by a
chain link fence. The area is to be
enclosed at each end by a F iberglas
fence.

All on one floor, the bathhouse plans
include, in addition to the usual dress-
ing and checking facilities, lifeguard
rooms, first-aid room, diatomaceous
filter and chlorinating equipment, a
cashier’s oflice with automatic ticket
dispenser and change-maker, and an
ofiice for the manager, with a view of
the entire pool. A concession stand and
roofed refreshment area also overlook
the pool but are separated from it by a
Cyclone fence. Parking for a thousand
cars is provided, and the eighteen-acre
pool area adjoins a large playground.

Tacoma’s new pool will be completed

this summer; it is the product of the

kind of cooperative advance planning
producing the most efficient results. I

Floor plan of bathhouse for Tacoma pool, illustrating bathhouse facilities.

 

o

 

I
I
.- -

 

 man: —— — —-  ‘   
The wa was now clear for \‘x " n' s $7 " VI‘ 1 a'
y . ' . I. l . . o '3': 7 - ' SHOHERS mica I 'I 92w. ‘ Otis
. constructlon of thc park I I I I I I I  I ‘I r; in £9 ’1‘“. I?
1 _ n . amn- a .    : U . “a 1,0 .t‘
ard’s own pool, but $50,000 mm ‘ “Y “' m r » "‘"”°“ .__.. Lam's-m5! * a r  "
. . u I  I I I I I I ‘ I m mt: mnsmi uoou a can“ . I;
.I the funds set aSIde for It had mu -I . I -  ' ' a l i I § mo!” x"
en expended on school pools. ’i‘ ._.__ _ _-l- ___l__.l-._.:_‘_ml;._';ga.,;L1,J-s-——- ViLj;%:i—;,,,,,.—.-%_is 3'—’-‘-’- aim”) ’ '
1e superintendent of public W “'4' """ m3?“ ‘°"°"""‘  '1' ' 'M
AY 1958 161

"W'E‘bO—tv-v?

\ 1‘;

-—-— &—-—- cur-o-

 

l
o. $.34! 1“de

'35:!  m L.
h-

  

r‘o

 

Important points for pool construction

as brought out by surveys.

ANEW STUDY, conducted by the YMCA, reveals much of
value to recreation authorities contemplating pool
construction in their new community centers. Its purpose
was to determine what, in the opinion of YMCA physical
educators, composes an ideal pool and what the most de-
sirable features are.

Limitations of the Study. No attempt has been made to in-
fringe on technical and mechanical phases of pool planning:
such as number and size of filter, thickness of pool walls,
and so on. Suggestions are made for new pools, not for im-
proving or reconditioning old ones; however, many of the
suggestions should be helpful in redesigning them.

This study is chiefly concerned with indoor pools, but
many standards and suggestions are acceptable for outdoor
pools.* "

Questions and replies drawn up by Frederick W. Kahms,

Jr., Purdue University:

A Summary of Selected Features

Pool Location

0 Where should the swimming pool be located? Replies:
ground level—54; upper level—7. The importance of
ground level in relation to the filtration units and locker
rooms, the convenience of getting pe0ple in and out, con-
sideration for polio victims, were some of the points empha-
sized.

0 Should a pool have outside windows? Yes—50; No—12.
More then ten persons referred to the satisfactory use of
glass brick. The condensation on windows and their metal
frames is a problem, still not fully eliminated, nor has the
problem of glare off the water striking the swimmer or in-
structor in the eyes during class been solved. A number of
pools constructed recently without outside light are proving

satisfactory.

o If outside windows are used should they be restricted to
the north wall? Yes—l3; No—34. This did not seem to be
an important factor.

0 Is it desirable to have a pool located in the center of a
building without outside walls or windows, thus eliminating
condensation and algae? Yes—l3; No—32. With pr0per
maintenance, the problem could be solved in other ways.

. * A comprehensive survey of outdoor pools was made by the Na-
tlonal. Conference for Cooperation in Aquatics in 1954, under the
dII‘CCUOH of George Butler, research director, National Recreation

Association. Copies of their findings are available for $1.00 from the
Association at 8 W. 8th Street, New York 11.

162

 

A swimming meet in well-designed, 75-foot pool in senior high
school in Abington, Pennsylvania. Note elarity of wide lines
on the bottom of the pool and the arrangement of lighting.
Speetalors are high enough so contestants eannot hloek view.
Roll-away bleaehers ean also be a solution to seating problem.

Are You Building

Pool?

an Indoor

 

Handsome, all-eeramie tile pool in junior high school, Great
Neck, New York, eombines utility with attraetiveness. A worker
points to Spot where safety rop'e will cross pool, separating
diving area from shallow water. The 75-by-36-foot pool has
eleat-tread tile at both ends for nonslip swim turns.

Pool Size

0 Should all new indoor pools be seventy-five feet long?
Yes—60; No—2. Several afiirmatives qualified their an-
swers by indicating they would like larger pools, movable
bulkheads, separate diving pools, more width for teaching.
Pool dimensions should be governed by such principles as:
finances, batller demands, educational policies, health and
therapeutic needs, and competitive interests. None should
predominate, but rather the pool size should meet all needs.

RECREATION

  
  
   
     
   
   
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   
  
   
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   
  
 
  
  

" hat do you consider the most ideal width? Replies:
I ; 30’—ll; 35 ’—15; 40’—3; 42’—22; 45’—2; 60’—
ersons. The responses indicated a preference for the
y-two-foot pools, in light of the current seven-foot lanes.
rider pool makes a better teaching area.
es
ow wide do you think the swimming lanes should be?
; ’—16; 7’—32; 8’—2; 9’-——-l. Over fifty per cent
.u red the currently recommended NCAA seven-foot lanes,
ough several pointcd out that a narrower lane could be
for prep and unior competition.
0 you favor the use of surface lanes? Yes—48; No—ll.
- physical educators mentioned several reasons for sur-
- lanes, including keeping pool quieter, helping young-
_ 5 learn to swim straight, eliminating necessity of disqual-
ation, and so on. Several suggested that pools should be
It with attachments for lanes.
| ow wide should the line on the pool bottom be? 6”—21;
13; I "—18; I2”—4. The important features seem to
clearly visible lines and a break in the line before it
hes the end of the pool, as a safety factor.
er Depth
' at should minimum depth be at shallow end? 3’—24;
’—l7; 3’6”—l9; 4’—3. Two important factors are the
- of gutter used and the swimmer’s age. A number of
Y’s are now teaching special classes, family groups, five-
six-year-olds—thus the need for shallow water.

I

{\t‘

" lat do you consider an adequate depth beneath the one-
r board? 9’—21; 10’—37; II’—2; 12’—2. Several
' have much shallower water, but prefer the deeper water
11 beginners and inexperienced divers are mostly using
acility.

hat do you consider an adequate depth beneath the
-meter board? ’—2; 10’—2; Il’—7; I2'—37;
12; 16’—1. It is important that the water be the same
a under both high and low boards. It is also important
the depth extend to the point where the divers enter the
r, usually two to ten feet from the end of the board.
or two extra feet above minimum requirements will elim-
- all but the rarest injuries.

uld you like to have both a one-meter and a three-
diving board? Yes—41; N0—l5. Answers indi-
rising interest in this phase of the aquatic program.
boards, standards, and teaching aids are making pos-
increased diving activity.

w large should the diving area be? 10’—l2; 12’—l6;
23; 30—28; 33’—l; 35’ —18; 40—3. Responses in-
ed safety as the important factor here. A forty-two-
wide pool is certainly suHicient to handle adequately
board lengths, taking all safety aspects into consider-
. Often, the architect’s esthetics do not provide for the
’ safety.

w much clcarance should be allowed above the boards?
2; I3’—5; 15’—29; I8’—5; 20’—IO; 22’—l. These
rs are colored by the fact that many YMCA’S have
low ceilings. The height should be measured from the
f the board, not from the water. Any ceiling that can

' 958

be touched in any manner after leaving the board is certain-
ly too low.

0 What kind of surface do you prcfer on your board?
Cocoa matting: Yes—8, No—27; safety tread: Yes—48,
N 0—0. Note the overwhelming acceptance of safety tread.
Remarks indicated it is cleaner and safer, does not clog
filters.

0 Do you believe that all boards should be equipped with
instantly adjustable fulcrums? Yes—40; N‘o—l6. Although
a majority favored adjustable fulcrums, several indicated
disfavor because of the safety factor. They felt an ineXper-
ienced swimmer might incur injury. Most fulcrums are now
so constructed that they may be locked in a forward position
to eliminate this.

0 Do you prefer wooden boards to aluminum boards?
Yes—IO; No—43; Fiberglas—S. Is your pool equipped
with aluminum diving boards? Yes—24; N0—31. While
43 of the 58 responses indicated a preference for aluminum
boards, less than fifty per cent of the pools have them.
Cost seems to be the main factor. Fiberglas is a little
newer than the others, and it is meeting with some favor
and some criticism.

Pool Markings

0 Do you believe that the water depths should be marked
conspicuously in the tile around the pool? Yes—54; No—
3. Remarks indicated that although shallow and deep might
be marked on pool walls, it is important to know exactly.
For instance, shallow water in the Ohio State University
exhibition pool is seven feet.

0 Would you like to have every five yards marked numeri-
cally in the tile? Yes—50; No—8.

0 Would you like the common competitive distances mark-
ed numerically in the tile? Yes—22; N0—33; yards—2.
Remarks indicated they did not feel it was too important
and what with yards and competitive distances, it would
be too confusing.

Pool Features

0 Do you prefer overflow gutters all around the pool?
Yes—41; No—l6. Would you rather have gutters just on
the sides so that the ends could be flat for turning? Yes—
15; No—36. Several pointed out the use of gutters as a
teaching and safety factor in working with children. It also
helps keep the pool smooth for competition.

0 Would you like to have all sharp corners in the pool
rounded slightly to facilitate cleaning and vacuuming? Yes
—56; No—4.

0 Do you believe that underwater windows are important?
Yes—28; N0—27; side wall, deep end—36; end wall, deep
end—8; side wall, shallow end—3. Cost probably made
the difference here. It is agreed that there are many uses
for underwater windows. The inexperience of most YMCA
people seems to rule out any accurate response related to
size.

0 Do you believe that a permanently installed PA System is
very desirable? Yes—55; N0—6. It can be used many
ways. A two-way system can be an important safety factor.
0 How many ladders would you like to have in a pool?
2—15; 3—2; 4—43. Many Y groups are of youngsters,

163

and it was agreed that one ladder near each corner is very
advantageous. Some remarked that these should be re-
cessed.

0 Should swimming pools be thoroughly soundproof? Yes
—61; No—O. Lack of soundproofing is one of the most
noticeable errors in older pool construction, making teach-
ing most difficult.

0 Should the swimming coach’s office be handy to the pool
and have a large glass window overlooking the entire pool
area? Yes—59; No—2. The remarks indicated the differ-
ence between the coach, lifeguard, aquatic director and
showed their need for such an office.

0 Should there be a permanent tile foot-bath between each
shower room and the pool so that no soap is carried to the
pool deck? Yes—32; No—30. I
0 Would you like to have adequate space on the walls for
swimming records? Yes—55; No—3.

0 Would you like to have a scoreboard for meets on the
wall? Yes—50; No—10. The last two are things adding to
spectator and swimmer interest in the programs. This is
best done by planning for it in the construction.

Starting Blocks

0 Should starting blocks be used in competition? Yes—52;
No—4. The questionnaire did not specify type, which stim-
ulated discussion regarding the flat tops or the Olympic
type, with a forty-five-degree angle. Also mentioned was
the eighteen-inch water level, which is considered a satis-
factory height. The maximum is thirty inches.

0 Should starting blocks be used in competition? Yes—52;

N643. For varied use, they should be easily stored.

0 Would you like to have the backstroke starting grips per-
manently recessed in the wall? Yes—26; No—29. Many
pools have them as a part of their removable starting blocks.

Pool Deck'

0 In your opinion how wide should the walks at the pool
sides be? 4’—2; 6’—5; 8’—21; 10'—9; 12’—10; 15’—
10. Several mentioned having one side considerably wider
than the other, where land drills and spectators might be
accommodated.

o In your opinion, how wide should the area be at the deep
end? 8’—2; 10’—5; 12’—6; 15’—19; 18’—2; 20’—17;
more—1. With races starting, and many finishing, at this
end, the extra space is important.

0 How wide should the area be at the shallow end? 6’—2;
8’—12; 10’—8; 12’—18; 15’—15. Twelve to fifteen feet
was considered necessary. Adequate pool-deck area is very
important. It may be used for spectator space, land drill,
water ballet work, and so on. However, many individuals
would sacrifice deck area on one side and one end for more
water area.

0 Would you like a raised edge around the pool (approxi-
mately six inches high and one foot wide), separating the
pool from the walks, enabling greater hose pressure during
“washing down,” and serving as a permanent starting block
as well? Yes—28; No—25. Most who remarked on this
were not familiar enough with it to have a definite opinion.
Many thought it sounded like a good idea but would like to
have the opinion of persons having that type of construction.

164

  
 
  
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
  
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
  
    
   
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
   

Lighting

0 Do you favor underwater lighting? Yes—50; No
Several factors mentioned should be considered, includi
Not placing lights in middle of lanes at end, thus hinde
turns; expense involved; safety.

0 Would you favor complete artificial lighting? Yes—
No—21. Here again, most have not had enough practi
experience to comment. Cost is an item.
0 Would you like to have several electrical outlets arou
the pool for phonographs, extra lights (during show
movie projectors, television cameras (to televise home me
or shows), and so on. Yes—55; No—3.

Seating

0 Based on attendance at water shows and swimming me
what seating capacity would you like to have around y
pool? 100—4; 150—4; 200—12; 250—6; 300
400—7; 500—11; 750—2; 1000—1; more—1. S
eral commented that lack of interest in competitive sw'
ming, water shows, and ballet stems from the fact that t
few people can be accommodated in most pools. The v
ance in number of spaces needed was almost as great in t
College Swimming Coaches= Survey, although they were
terested in considerably larger numbers.

0 Should the seats be at least six feet above the pool (I
so that contestants do not obstruct the view of the spec
tors? Yes—54; No—3.

0 Do you believe that the incorporation of “roll—away”
“folding” bleachers would best solve seating proble
Yes—43; No—15. The affirmatives indicated that t
were not familiar with pools using it. The moisture e
on wood was mentioned.

Storage

0 How much storage space at deck level is necessa
8 by 8—9; 10 by 15—27; 10 by 20—18. Most agree
shortage of good storage space. With equipment ran
from water-polo goals and diving boards to scuba eq
ment, needs must be reconsidered.

Filter Equipment

0 What kind of filter equipment do you recommend? 5
—27; diatomite—24. The people with sand filters c
mented enthusiastically about them. However, a nu
of diatomite filters were rated as very satisfactory

ll 1* ll

 

Personal Ideas

0 What special cleaning equipment is needed? In
question we tried giving the physical educator an op
tunity to tell us about his pool, special equipment feat
and pet peeves. In reading terms and value to YM
considering pool construction, these features would b
tremely important but impossible to report in this typ
survey. Sets of the complete report are available to
group considering construction of a pool from Dr. i
F riermood, National Council YMCA’s, 291 Broadway,
York 7; Robert E. Laveaga, National YMCA Physical l
cation, 263 Alden Street, Springfield 9, Massachusetts;
ward L. Griffin, National YMCA Aquatic Committee, .
YMCA of Indiana, 1101 K. of P. Bldg., 219 N. Pen

vania, Indianapolis 4. l

RECREA

 

Cowiuner of first place, indoor pools division, Swimming Pool Age
Awards Design Competition, this high school pool gives an outdoor feeling.

I Pool Contests

    
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
 

‘ Out of the seven or eight winners of the outdoor pools
division in the Awards Design Competition conducted by
Swimming Pool Age last fall, two municipal pools received
honorable mention. These were: a pool designed by Brooks,
Miller 8: Stetman, architects of Duarte, California, built by
l‘larwick 8: Sons, Inc., Hollywood, for McCambridge Park
And Recreation Center, Burbank; and two steel pools in
one installation, in Winnetka, Illinois. The latter are Mc-
Fadzean, Everly and Associates pools, the general contractor
being Field and Schiller, Highland Park, and steel con-
tractor Longtin’s Bon Aqua, Skokie, Illinois.

d A second contest conducted by the same magazine, this
time time the SPA Annual Public Relations Competition,
was reported in the March, 1958 RECREATION, in “Report-
er’s Notebook,” page 82.

6 DRAIN YOUR POOL! Outdoor pools should be kept
drained of rain and snow water, for safety reasons if for no
other. In Glen Head, New York, last year, a boy was
drowned in a pool in a neighbor’s yard. The report said
ilat he had wandered away after lunch and was found by

PI!” 1958

 

his mother. A fter that, firemen went through the neighbor-
hood draining all pools, to prevent any more such accidents.
0 REGULATING PRIVATE POOLS. Zoning ordinances should
establish specific requirements for private swimming pools
and clubs in the same manner as they do for municipal and
commercial pools, according to the American Society of
Planning Oflicials. The chief complaints concerning private
pools are the noises created by children playing and by
pump and filter motors, the glare from Hoodlights used for
night bathing, and the hazard of unfenced pools to children
in the neighborhood. Cities may limit the objectionable
features of pools by placing the following requircments in
their zoning ordinances: (l) approval of structure and
cquipment for water treatment by state swimming pool in-
spectors; (2) fencing and screening from nearby proper-
ties; (3) establishing minimum distances from all property
lines for locating the pool, pump, and filters; (4) placing
restrictions on signs and commercial sales at nonprofit
clubs; (5) shielding Hoodlights to reduce glare; and (6)
approval of private water supplies. These recommendations
are set forth in a report issued by ASPO to cities subscribing

165

A
D
M
I
N
l
S
T
R
A
T .
l
0
N

 

to its planning advisory service—From Public Management,
December 1954.

o FENCING. In a regulatory ordinance adopted by Engle-
wood, New Jersey, all pools must bc fenccd to prevent access
except through approved gates or doors.

0 POPULARITY 0F POOLS. Private pools, once considered
a luxury, are now finding their way into real estate develop-
ments of medium-priced houses. One such develOpment of

$19,990 homes, on Long Island, New York, will include a
pool in the backyard of every house.

Admission Rates in Kansas—The following summary is
based upon a study conducted by Larry Heeb, state recrea-
tion consultant, University of Kansas, and Ivan F. Shull,
sanitation engineer, Kansas State Board of Health, as re-
ported in the July, 1957, issue of The Kansas Government
Journal. The data used here were based upon replies sub-
mitted by seventy-five Kansas authorities operating munici-

pal pools.

Item Cities Reporting Range Reported Median
Single Admission Rates

Adults 72 3 .20— .50 3 .35
Youth 28 .10— .35 .25
Children 20 .00— .25 .15
Season Admission Rates

Adults 42 53.00—12.00 $ 6.50
Youth 14 1.00— 8.50 5.00
Children 37 1.75— 8.00 4.00
Family Rates 9 5.00—20.00 12.50
Towel Rental 38 .05— .25 .10
Suit Rental 22 .10— .50 .25

In defining children, youth, and adults, most cities con-
sider children as under twelve, and youth as grades nine
through twelve. The most frequently reported minimum
adult age was over twelve.

A striking variation was found when season admission
rates were compared with single admission rates. For ex-
ample, of the sixteen cities making a thirty-five-cent single
charge, the season rate ranged from $3.00 to $12.00.

Only one pool open throughout the 1956 season did not
offer swimming instruction. Admission to the pool for swim-
ming lessons was free in thirty-one cities. Fifty-one cities
operate a wading pool in connection with their swimming
pool, and only one of these makes an admission charge.

A variety of answers was given as to which authority
establishes pool rates, but in thirty-seven cities the city coun-
cil or commission determines them and in thirteen the
pool operator has this responsibility.

Los Angeles County—Following a survey of pools in the
county, the Metropolitan Recreation and Youth Services

Council‘" prepared a complete report. Summary includes:.

FINDINGS

Safety—Half the youth in the county is unable to swim.
0 About fifty-five drownings occur annually in the county.

0 Access to the ocean increases the need for pools for in-

 

* 206 S. Spring St., Room 226, Los Angeles 12.
166

struction to reduce the hazard of ocean sports.

0 The number of those able to swim is directly relatcd t
the availability of pools for instruction purposes.

Interest and Value—Swimming ranks highest, nationally, i
recreation interest and value.

0 Is the most popular activity.

0 Is only activity demanded by children and adults.

0 Outranks all physical education activities in its benefits
Number of Pools—One hundred and forty-eight pools i
Los Angeles County are open to the public (excluding com-

   
  
 
  
   
   
   
  
  

mercial pools).
0 Municipalities operate sixty-seven pools (Los Angeles
City thirty-one) .
0 School districts operate thirty-nine pools (Los Angele
City schools seven).
0 The county Operates twelve pools.
0 Private agencies operate thirty pools.
0 Outdoor pools number 111; indoor pools thirty-seven.
Residential pools in Los Angeles County have increase
from 6,000 to 35,000 since 1950; these constitute forty pe
cent of the nation’s total.
Residential pools do not decrease the need for public
pools; rather they increase the hazard for nonswimmers.
PRINCIPLES T0 GUIDE THE PLANNING 0F POOLS

Location and Use—Pools should be distributed to serve the
population equitably.

0 Pools should serve instruction and recreation needs.

0 Pools should be especially available for late elementar
and unior high children—the best age for learning to swim.
0 Indoor pools can be used to capacity year round when
located in a community recreation setting adjacent to a
secondary school.

Construction—Local year-round weather may require use
of heating devices, windbreaks, or covered pools for year-
round use.

0 Intended use of pool should determine all features such
as number, shape, size, depths, covering, decks, and relation-
ship to surroundings.

o Low-cost Operation and maintenance result from the cor
rect choice of many construction features.

Cooperative Planning—City councils, recreation commis
sions, school boards, boards of supervisors, and Chest
agencies should coordinate their planning.

0 Government agencies should provide the community
swimming pools.

0 Government agencies should collaborate in their plan-
ning to assure best service at least cost.

0 School pools should be conveniently located for commu-
nity use.

0 Community pools should be convenient for school use.
Private or Chest agencies should plan pools only in relation-
ship to public pools.

Continuous Planning—The estimated increase in county
population to 8,500,000 by 1975 requires continuous plan-

ning of more pools.
END OF POOL SECTION

RECREATION

No Shortage of Future Scientists Here

Nature research can be made. exciting by
sparking activities in museums, camps,
recreation centers, and playgrounds.

 

Collecting specimens. Young researchers learn to use
scientific techniques, delve into natural mysteries.

HE NEED FOR scientists is great and becoming greater;
government, industry, and universities are insisting
at more young peeple must choose their careers among the
iences. How can this be brought about? Can scientific re-

arcll be made exciting and appealing? Can love of science
taught? How young and with what should students

egin?

In Iowa, the Davenport Public Museum is trying to
swer these questions. Each summer the museum offers
ture workshops in natural science. Junior high school

.AY 1958

 

Adrienne Richard

boys and girls have filled the classroom both in numbers and
enthusiasm.

The workshop is divided into beginning and advanced
sections; and boys and girls from sixth through ninth grades
are admitted. They learn about trees, mammals, birds,
frogs, snakes, insects, flowers. Everything is scrutinized.
Not a fruit jar is left in a home cupboard that isn’t full of
specimens. They learn to make a butterfly net, a plant press,
and plaster casts of animal tracks. What’s more, they learn
in a well-ordered manner. Their instructor, Thomas B. Thew
of East Moline, Illinois, makes organized presentations. He
teaches the fundamental techniques of the scientific method,
he teaches how to take notes. In fact, his college level meth-
ods and test questions awed the museum staff, but his stu-
dents stretch and measure up to them. He helps each young
naturalist learn to keep a collection. A prize at the summer’s
end goes to the best project. Last year Gene Ferret of Moline,
Illinois, received the advanced award for his collection of
water snakes. His mother deserved a prize, too.

Since the start the museum has set four principal objec-
tives for the workshops. They aim to keep down the cost for
each student (a two-dollar~and-hventy-five cent materials fee
is the only charge) so that anyone can come; confine the
workshop to natural history (the moths, frogs, rocks, and so
on that youngsters collect anyway) ; provide a program
which supplements the school science curriculum; and, in
the words of the instructor, “try to make scientists of ’em.”

Does such a program really help the scientist shortage?
Some of these young people have already embraced a branch
of natural science. Six young “graduates” now help out at
the museum; one assists with the butterfly collection, another
with the May fly collection, a third with scarab beetles, and
two girls help to relax mounted bird specimens for study
skins. These young peeple work without salary. They per-
form needed service for the museum, and, in return, the
museum becomes a resource and a reference for them.

Others who do not catch professional fire are by no
means lost. Natural science has been for centuries part of
the liberal education. An informed generation will hasten
the work of conservation, the Izaak Walton League, scout-
ing. What a hobby like nature photography means to an

 

MRS. RICHARD has been a newspaper food editor, advertising
copywriter, and writer and producer of an educational TV
program. Her recreation experience includes chairing a
study of the Scott County (Iowa) recreation facilities, in
1957, for the League of Women Voters.

167

 

adult is immeasurable, in terms of his intellectual develop-
ment.

Although the great museums of the country have nature
programs—and children’s museums excel in them—a mu-
seum isn’t a necessity. Any interested community can form
a nature workshop. A qualified instructor may be a well-
versed amateur naturalist, or a college student, majoring in
sciences, home for the summer. Not a few scoutmasters have
considerable knowledge in natural history. The laboratory?
There’s all outdoors with no investment needed. Nature will
supply the raw material. A place? A picnic shelter in a park
will do, or perhaps a school or church school, vacant for the
summer, will volunteer facilities.

A beginners’ workshop may include what the Davenport
Public Museum’s does. The summer starts with learning how
to keep a collection and how to identify what goes into it. A
general background in the whole field of natural history is
given, along with basic scientific techniques and field trips
for firsthand experience.

The advanced workshop is more specific. Each branch of
natural science receives individual attention. Ornithology,
botany, astronomy, geology, among others, are taken up in
informal talks, laboratory, and field trips. To “graduate” a
student must be acquainted with at least five subjects, but
he can take several summers to do it.

Children are naturalists by nature, and a few will become
deeply interested. There’ll be the tag-enders, of course, the
scourge of education; but, before you write them off, think

 

Museum’s hird specimens are shown at a workshop.
Two girls volunteered to help catalogue the hirdskins.

about this incident. One day a boy riding along in our

ture workshop was faced by the owner of a Canadian res
where he was vacationing. The owner was rightly proud
the stand of birches on his property, with their silvery ba

“Now, I like boys,” the owner said, “but I’ve had trou
with boys here in the past. They pull the bark off my bi
trees and kill the trees. Now, I don’t want that to happe

The boy looked into his face and said, “That’s beca
most people think a tree grows in the center, but it does
It grows right under the bar .”

The man’s mouth dropped. His eyes lit up. His trees w
safe. The boy’s mother was just as surprised. “Where u
you learn that about trees growing right under the bark
she asked later. The reply, “Oh, I learned that at nat
workshop!” l

 

Safe Boat Operation

IIE FOLLOWING suggestions are
given in Motorboat Safety,* 1957

issue, published by the Merchant Ma-
rine Council of the United States Coast
Guard:
0 Do not overload your boat.
0 Do not leave shore in a leaky or poor-
ly constructed boat.
0 Liquor and safe boating do not mix.
0 Observe the pilot rules.
0 Instruct at least one of your passen-
gers or “crew” in the rudiments of hand-
ling your boat if you should become dis-
abled, and, without alarming them,
see that all hands know what to do in
an emergency. Show all hands the lo-
cation of emergency equipment.
0 Don’t hurry when Operating your
boat or when securing equipment and
supplies fo rit--take your time and use
caution.
0 Obtain local information and fa-
miliarize yourself with the locality in
which you are going to operate your

*Published at Coast Guard Headquarters,
Washington 25, DC

168

boat. Do not venture into dangerous
or restricted waters.

0 Have life preservers readily avail-
able and wear when conditions warrant.
0 Check your weather and tides be-
fore going out and have due regard for
them.

0 Gasoline filler pipes outside of comb-
ing and extending to bottom of gas
tanks.

0 Fuel tanks vented.

o Bilges free from oil, waste, grease,
and so on.

0 Electrical equipment and wiring in
accordance with good marine practices.
0 Have adequate fuel filter.

0 Check your battery and its ventila-
tion.

0 Do not Operate near swimmers in the
water.

0 Do not use gasoline stoves.

0 Do not use kapok filled life preserv-
ers to sit upon, as such action com-
presses the filler and reduces its effi-
ciency.

0 Provide lifebelts for children.

0 Do not be afraid of a boat—respec
0 Do not forget your wake can dam
others.

0 Do not fail to reduce speed thro

anchorage areas.
0 Do not lie at anchor with short cab
allow sufficient scope.

This publication also carries an a
cle, “Recreational Boating Safet
which emphasizes the importance
state and federal c00peration to achi
uniformity in regulations enforc
safe boating. Other Coast Guard p
lications of interest to recreation peo I
How to Get the Most Out of an Outboa

Scott-Atwater Manufacturing C

pany, Inc., 2901 Hennepin Aven

Minneapolis 13, Minnesota. $.10
Outboard Boating Skills, published

the Evinrude Boating Foundat'

(for the Boy Scouts of Americ

Milwaukee 16, Wisconsin. Free.
Outboard Handling, Outboard Boat'

Club of America, 307 North Mi
igan Avenue, Chicago 1, Ill. Free

 

RECREATI

Why Not

Preschoolers?

Richard E. Johns

If.”

 
  
   
   
  
  
   
   
 
    

_, ORE AND MORE recreation agencies are including the
J senior citizen in their programs, but very few have in-
'ded the preschool child. Children this age have been
-- ored, with the justification that they are the parents’
. ponsibilty; but for that matter, isn’t every child, regard-
s of age?
The problems confronting the playground leader who at-
: pts to work the preschool child into a mass activity pro-
am with school-age children are very real. The younger
l ild has a very short interest span and tires easily; he en-
P1 rs playing with other children but is not ready for any
m activities; and motor skills vary tremendously from
ild to child. Everything suggests the need for a specially
; igned preschool program.

Planning

    
  

illn Clenview, Illinois, one basic question was posed: “Can
perform a real service for a child this age?” The bumper
op of preschoolers showed no signs of decreasing with the
lpstant influx of new, young residents. The aim was not
- operate a day-care center, but it was felt that, because
hild is only four years old, he did not have to be ignored.
I“ idea was to develop a program satisfying the child’s
: ds to meet and play with other youngsters his own age,
= ch him activities to be used at home, and give him every
portunity to begin his social adjustment to other children.
This was a big order; and we realized that the key lay,
in any other program, in the leadership. Joyce Rieger
'd recently joined our full-time staff and was to operate this
ogram. Her training consists of a degree in recreation
1n the University of Illinois. The National Recreation
sociation and municipal recreation agencies sent help-
information concerning preschool programs, and this

h- 5 adapted to our program and communlty needs.

 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
   
   
  
      

I'

. J OIINS is director of recreation, Glenview Park District,
'- nview, Illinois.

   

IaY 1958

 

Field houses in Gleuview, Illinois, parks present the
homey atmosphere that is best for a tols’ program.

Self-expression is carefully encouraged in the play
aelivities that are a child’s serious “business-of-life.”

l-
"I

1
.
1 

I
I“!
I

a

Organization

There are five log field houses within our parks in the
various neighborhoods in the district. These field houses
have a much-needed homey atmosphere, and it was decided
to meet one morning a week at each of these five locations.
Each program would be limited to fifteen children so that
two adults could give adequate individual attention. By
meeting only once a week the parental influence would be
supplemented rather than superseded.

Our age limit was geared to the kindergarten level so that
a child could be enrolled in the program only if he would
be old enough to enter kindergarten the following year. A
registration fee was charged to cover the cost of required
supplies and to pay part of the leadership costs. Meeting
times were set from nine to eleven in the morning. A child
could enroll only if his mother assisted the leader during one
session each semester, in order to maintain a close working
relationship with the parents. The benefits have been two-
fold: first, with fifteen children of this age a second adult is
essential, thus the leader is helped; and second, this gives the
parent a fine opportunity to see the program in operation
and her child’s place in it and how well he fitted in. M

169

 

After registration day, and prior to the actual beginning
of the program, a mothers’ meeting was held. At this meet-
ing the purposes and organization of the program were ex-
plained in detail. The meeting was then separated into buzz
sessions by the five field house groups. One mother from
each field house had been appointed and briefed before the
meeting. Program ideas, toy donations, and other equip-
ment resulted from these buzz groups. Assignments of moth-
ers to serve as assistants during the semester were also made.

The Program

At the opening session there was an assortment of tan-
trums, and crying, “I want to go home.” By the following
week the original fears and worries were forgotten, and the
program is now progressing very smoothly. A typical morn-
ing schedule follows:

9:00—Arrival and free play. During this time, puzzles,

It’s in the Cards

V A 0?. O

 

Australian Solitaire

This variation of solitaire was taught us by Margaret
Wiseman, our visitor from Australia, who came up to the
International Recreation Congress in Philadelphia, in 1956,
and who visited many recreation departments during her
stay in the U.S.A. It’s an excellent game, depending upon
skill as well as luck, and it can be won—sometimes!

Setting up the game: Use two decks of cards (jokers are
not used). Take out all the aces and set them up in two
vertical lines, each line containing the aces of spades, hearts,
diamonds, and clubs. Between each ace in the left and right
line leave room for three cards across. Deal out the remain-
ing cards into these twelve spaces, going from left to right,
and mentally counting the spaces as you deal, starting with
two and ending with the king. When a card has been placed
in the last space, the next card goes into a stockpile. If a
card should happen to be placed in a space with the same
number, the stockpile gets the next card as an extra bonus.
Keep distributing the deck until all the cards are laid out,
putting a card in the stockpile after each run through, and
whenever cards accidentally fall into the correct pile. The
table setup is like this:

S Ace 2 3 4 S Ace
H Ace 5 6 7 H Ace
D Ace 8 9 10 D Ace
C Ace I 0 K C Ace

In other Words, if as you deal out the cards to fill the

170

 

donated toys, blocks, dress-up clothes, and other equip
are placed in the room.
9 :30—Games: London Bridge, squirrel~in~the-tree, d
the handkerchief, follow the leader, and so on.
10:00—Fruit juice served and rest period.
10:15—Story time. Here is a good chance to encour
the child to express himself through finger plays, recoun '
his own experiences, playing parts in the story, and so fo
10:30—Crafts. They must be simple but should be
type that will encourage self-expression.
11:00—Outdoor play. Generally, free play on playgro
equipment; occasionally organized games.

11 :30-—Depart.

The typical program is varied by having a weekly the
such as, circus, Halloween, or nature. Each child looks f
ward to some particular part of the program, and by sh'
ing activities we can best serve each child’s needs. I

  
 
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
 
   
     
   
  
  
    
    
 
   
 

empty spaces between the lines, a queen accidentally h
pens to fall in the center space of the last line (the que
pile) the stockpile gets the next card. And the stockp
always gets a card after the last space in the last line is fill
The more bonus stock cards you get, the better your chan
of winning.

Object of game: To build up from the aces on the rig
and build down on the aces on the left. For example, yo
need a two of each suit, then the three, four, and so on, on t
aces. on the left, while the aces on the right side will nee
king, queen, ten and so on, in each suit.

To play: When all the cards have been dealt out, look t
piles over carefully. You can play any two’s or any kin
for example, at once on the proper ace lines. When you ca
play any other card from the top of any of the piles, tu
up the first card of the stockpile. Suppose it is a jack. Ta
it, pick up the cards in the first pile on the fourth line (t
jack pile), and play any of the cards you can on the t
vertical ace lines. Then you can rearrange the cards in t
pile, putting those you think you’ll need first near the t
Then replace the pile, still face up.

Take up the second card from the stockpile. Suppose
is a two. You add it to the cards of the first pile on the fi
line (the two pile), pick up this pile, play what cards y
can on the ace columns, and play any other top cards fr
any of the other piles if they can be used on any of the a
piles. When you’ve made all possible plays from the two pi
and from the tops of the other piles, rearrange the cards
the two pile and put it back in its place.

Continue this procedure until you’ve used up all the car
in the stockpile. If you’ve been lucky, the ace columns on t
left will all be filled up and you’ll have a line of kings.
the right side, you’ll have a line of two’s. If you aren’t luc '
you’ve lost the game. Leave the aces in place, pick up all t
other cards, shuffle thoroughly, and start over. Hope sprin

eternal, you know! I

RECREATIOi

J For “Over Sixty-fives”
l

'| ECREATION directors attending a conference session on
senior citizens at the annual Michigan Recreation Asso-

'ation Conference, held at Michigan State University in

ast Lansing last December, agreed that recreation planning

nd programing for the over-sixty-five group is still in its in-
ancy but the need is growing all the time. The session,
haired by Caddie Gerrie, of the Highland Park recreation
I epartment, offered the following suggestions for communi-
es now thinking seriously about senior citizen programs:

Don’thesitate to call upon other groups for assistance.

Some towns hold their activities in the afternoon.

Car pools can help with transportation.

Questionnaires can help determine the group’s interests.

Physicians can provide names of persons.

- Be cautious about charging dues and making money a
'miting factor.

Churches can be of considerable assistance.

It’s difficult to enforce boundary lines.

Club activities should include not only parties and fun,
at also helpful talks about gardening, arts and crafts, finan-
ial matters, and others.

The senior citizens want to contribute to the success of
heir community, Miss Gerrie said. These residents may
ave the extra time to help make phone calls to get out the
ote. They can assist with mailings for charity groups, and
ertainly can help others of their age.

The municipal recreation directors were eager to share
heir successful projects.

Lansing drew two hundred at each of six “get-together
ances” held in 1957. In Wyandotte quilting bees are pop-
lar. Midland members find oil painting is fun. In Wayne
otlucks provide lots of fellowship. Grand Rapids features
irthday cakes at the social meetings. Mt. Clemens started
rith three at a senior-citizen event a year ago and now have
a ore than one hundred active participants. M askegon has
wo clubs and members enjoy visiting back and forth. Ho-
ell provides fellowship for some residents well oVer ninety
ars old. Kalamazoo received a helpful check from the
ouncil of women’s clubs in that celery city community.
enior citizens in Dearborn help needy children. I

u LOOPER

Craft Weaving

Braiding and Crocheting
makes

 * POT HOLDERS *RUGS air MATS

l 0 Available In 20 beaulilul
colors . . . also varigaied

 

' for information and prices, write

" - HOME CRAFTS COMPANY

r aox 352 KERNERSVILLE, NORTH CAllOLiNA

I'AY 1958

AMERICAN 'I'RAMPOLINES

Give FUN To Everyone . . .

ALL Year ’Round,
o lNDOORS and

 OUTDOORS!

4'4/ The new sport for girls
‘ and boys of all ages.

SAFE—No un-

derstructure un-
der performing
area.

STRONG and
rigid . . . spaced

dual-rail frame.
Better bounce.

FREE—Write

for new liter-
ature on full

       
   
       
       
   
 
       
  
    

  

  
   
 
  
  

 

HE body developer that is funl Trampolin-

ing on an American Trampoline. Amer-
ica’s fastest growing sport—unmatched for A
building strong coordinated muscular systems in 
both boys and girls, young and old alike. An 0 -'
American Trampoline will provide many hours
of safe, happy and healthful year ’romrd
recreation for everyone! $99.50 up. A model
to fit every requirement.

DIVE-O-TRAMP
America‘s most popular diving trampoline. Adds '
excitement and fun to the pool or swimming ._
area. Can be permanently mounted on pool
deck, lake deck or floating raft, or used as a
portable unit.

Manufacturers of the famous LARRY GRISW/OLD BED

The AMERICAN TRAMPOLINE co 

 
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
       
   
   
    

Dive-O-Tramp
Model N-4OA

 

 

 

"The Choice of Those Who Play The Game”

The MacGregor Co. ° Cincinnati 32, Ohio
FOOTBALL ° BASEBALL ° BASKETBALL ' GOLF ' TENNIS

 

When writing to bur advertisers please mention RECREATION. 171

 

0 Chester Products makes an
aluminum swimming pool,
fabricated of thick, plate alu-
minum, transported in the
largest possible units and weld-
ed at the site into the size and
shape desired. This type of
construction was selected to
overcome rust, cracks, leaks,
and costly upkeep—the usual
difficulties encountered in con-
ventional construction. One of Chester Pool’s exclusive
features is its roll-out ledge combined with the overflow
drain. Using this ledge, swimmers can leave the pool with
almost no effort, simply by rolling onto it. Chester Pools
also make “F light-Style” deck equipment, and Diavac (dia-
tomaceous earth vacuum type of filter) . The pools carry a
five-year warranty. Shown in pictures are an aluminum pool

 

NEWS

For further information regardi
any of these products, write direc
to the manufacturer. Pleasc menti

that you saw it in RECREATION.

for safe, foolproof operation, has a treadle which raises t
weight of the board and diver from the fulcrum bar. A wh
in the treadle moves the fulcrum bar to the desired positio
quickly and easily. Regardless of the position of the bar, t
oiiicial pitch of the board is always maintained. E. P. F i

gan Company, 457 Ninth Street, San Francisco 3.

Q What with sp
niks and the Inter .
tional Geophysic
Year, what could

more timely than
build-it-yourself si
inch astronomical

Hecting telescop
The optical kit c
tains everythi

needed to make a te
sc0pe, enabling
viewer to see the sta
the planets, the moo
of Jupiter and t
rings of Saturn, or possibly, even a sputnik and, now the B
plorer. For further information, write the Edmund Scien
iic Company, Barrington, New Jersey.

under construction and one type of aluminum diving board.

 

"— 1

9 Medical engineers of t
National Cylinder Gas Co

pany have developed a n
lightweight, portable resusci

tor, called the “Back Pack,” u

signed to be easily and quic ‘
strapped to the back w
strong web bands. Weighi
less than thirty pounds, t
new lifesaving device enab
a rescuer, literally, to carr

“breath of life” on his back

a victim incurring an a

dent in which he stops brea
ing, such as drowning, gas poisoning, heart failure, su
cation, shock, and many others. Equipped with NC
unique “Handy” control, automatically adjusting the How
oxygen to the lung capacity of the patient, the unit inha
and exhales for him until his own breathing is restored.
can also be used as an aspirator to suck obstructions fr
a patient’s throat. The rescuer trained in first aid and equ
ped with “Back Pack” can render immediate, emerge

oxygen treatment—-—a very necessary resource at beac

swimming pools, and any other recreation facility wh
such emergency measures might be needed. For detai
information, write National Cylinder Gas Company, =‘

North Michigan Avenue, Chicago 11, Illinois. I

 

For further information about this swimming pool and
equipment, write R. M. LaBoiteauX, Chester Products Com-
pany, Division Ransohoff, Inc., North Fifth at Ford Boule-
vard, Hamilton, Ohio.

0 Aluminum is one of the world’s most versatile metals,
being strong, lightweight, corrosion resistant, and rust-
proof. These qualities make it an ideal material for certain
playground and recreation equipment; for instance, boats,
a winter item called the “Sno-Bronco” (more about this in a
later issue), band shells, swimming pools, and the “Kan-
garoo Kid”———all made from Alcoa aluminum.

The “Kangaroo Kid” is a miniature trampoline, 38” by
42”, and only nine inches off the ground, for safety. Another
safety feature is the attached handle bar, which helps the
youngsters keep their balance and on which they can also
play “skin-the-cat.” Made of lightweight aluminum tubing,
heavy-duty elastic, and gaily covered, tear-resistant canvas,
the entire unit is durable, portable, and suitable, for either
in- or outdoors. The “Kangaroo Kid” is made by Tekay
Products Company, 9140 N. Meadowlark, Milwaukee 17.

 

0 An automatic, adjustable springboard fulcrum, designed

172 RECREAT a

INDEX OF ADVERIISERS

PAGE
rican Playground Device Company-.. 149

rican Trampoline Company ...____ _ 171
man Buck Manufacturing Company... _ 150

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING

RATES: Words in regular type $.15 each DEADLINES: Copy must be received by

Words in boldxace type 5.25 each
Minimum ad accepted..-.. $3.00

COPY: Type—or clearly print—your message and the address to which you wish

the arm of the month preceding date of
the issue in which ad is desired.

replies sent. Underline any words you want to appear in boldface type.

Send copy with remittance to:
RECREATION Classified Advertising, 8 West Eighth Street, New York 11, New York.

 

tone Corporation ._._.._.______._- 173

i n Recreation E ui ent, HELP WANTED

p o q pm Camp Counsellors. Rehabilitation supervis- tional, recreation or music
ncorporated .....-___.-..._---_--__ -_-- 173 Boys’ camm in Maine, July ors for California state therapists; and one year’s

. . . _ 81 August; liberal salary 8: mental hospitals. Start at work as a therapist in a
Stiled Advertrsrng _ ._ _. _ .___ 173 living. State qualifications, $530, annual increments to mental hospital. Apply be-

experience: Kennebec $644. Requires college fore May 23, 1958, State
et Press Books -..-.. .. -.___ 174 Camps, JeEerson Building, graduation; 2 years’ ex- Personnel Board, 801 Capi-
1015 Chestnut St., Phila. perience supervising pro- to] Avenue, Sacramento,
.' o-Gray Company ____ -. . .. . _ 143 '7, Pa. fessionally trained occupa- California.
I. Driver Company _._. _ --_.__. __ ___._   Ths publisher assumes no responsibility for services or items advertised hers.
sition Press ..__-_._-__.-_-_.._.. ._ 175
nwich Book Publishers -.__.._.__. 174
erich 8. Bradsby Company-.. -_lnside Front For Playground Equipment
Cover  ACKER."

e Crafts Company _._.______.__ 171 E C? BASKHBM-l
se of Ceramics _________ 175 Star Co.—-Litchtield, Mich.-—-llncoln 2-2022  
"son Manufacturing Company --____ 175 "HS

. 3 Years Gun-ranted
ro AthletIc Supply Company ..._.._._ 173 outdoors or indoors
_ Also featuring Jayfro’s custom built

Gregor Sports Eqqument ________ -- 171 J NYLON BASKETBALL NETS s BALL CARRIERS
- -- ’A‘3”tirtin’iiti'92"&§°iiiiti€§i$§
Ional AssocIatIon for Mental Health... 173 J MUMINUM SHUFHEBOARD sm
ional Sports Company ____...-.._.._._ 149 ' 5"“ '°' F'“ “mm” '

JAYFRO ATHLETIC SUPPLY co.
sen Trampoline Company .._________,___ 175 Dept. R. Box I065. NEW LONDON, come.
an Pool Supply Company ....____._ 148

ks 8. Recreation Magazine---_.lnside Front

cover - calrfone -
. . . , Portable PHONOGRAPHS
ool ActIyItIes MagaZIne .... __lnside Back Cover TRANSCRIPTION PLAYERS
. STEMS
es Spencer&Company .___.___.__._.. 149 LOCALLY TO THE “mph” SOUND SY
. o .  for Every Recreation Use”
i Company .....-...._...._._..-____ 173 NUIIOI’IUI ASSOUUIIO" " calrfvm- concession arena-‘-
1. 1‘4! NU. SfCAMnR ' FOLLYWO' H. CALM.
Ia-Wooket Archery Camp ._-..__..__ 173 for Mental Health
'on Hardware Company -...-...... _. . 145
S. Defense Bonds... ....... _...__-Back Cover For SafetY Belt Swine Seats
. . PLAYGROUND
S. Rubber ReclaImIng Company _._..__ 150 CHAMPION EQUIPMENT " K ACKER...
- “SCALED TO CHILD SIZE" 

tage Press ______________ _.-..._ 174 Write for Free Literoture
'. POOL — PLAYGROUND —— GYM
It ----..-....-..._..--.---.-_-_--._..___-..... 150 Star Co.——litchtield, Mich.——Llncoln 2-2022

Champion Recreation Equip, Inc.

Highland Park, Illinois

 

ARCHERY BELONGS

In your recreation program
For archery educotion informotion writs:

Myrtle and Ed Miller

TEElA-WOOKET ARCHERY CAMP

450 W. 24th St. 16 ER
New York II, N. Y.

For All Steel Bicycle Rocks



Star Co.——Litchtield, Mich.—Llncoln 2-2022

May ls Senior
m Citizens Month I2

   

AY 1958

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 173

Magazine Articles

ADULT LEADERSIIIP, March 1958
Board Members Are PeOple, Too! Thelma
Whalen.

Community Recreation for Our Senior Citi-
zens, Jerome Kaplan.
CALIFORNIA PARENT-TEACHER, March 1958

Why Codes? Mrs. Virgil Belew.
City Camping, Marianne Lee.

THE CRIPPLED CHILD, April 1958

How a Playground Grew, Kathleen Sibley.

JOURNAL OF HEALTH, PHYSICAL EDUCATION,
AND RECREATION, January 1958

Stunts and Tumbling, James W. Grimm.

Dance Improvisation and Technique, Ger-
trade Lippincott.

Recreation’s Role in Rehabilitating Blind
People, Ralph R. Ireland.

PARENTS’, January 1958
Our Eight O’clock Club, Evelyn Hawes.

, March 1958
Fact Hunting Is Family Fun, Everette E.
Sentman.
Teens Take to the Road, Dorothy Siegel.

PARK MAINTENANCE, February 1958
Best Bargain in Pools ls Qualified Engi-

neering, Pascal P. Paddock.
SAFETY EDUCATION, February 1958

Watch Out—When College Students Dec-

orate! Charles Easley.
SCIIOLASTIC COACII, January 1958

Gym-Pool Plant for the Junior High, Frank
Whitney.

Montana State’s Multi-Purpose Pbysical
Education Center.

Ceramic-Tile Natatorium.

 

Just Published!
Psychology In

Children's Camping
by B. ROBERT BERG

Here is a sound psycbological approach
to camping—a summary of behavior
problems that arise, and practical
methods for solving tbem. Mr. Berg
considers environment, programing
and, perhaps, most important, the close
camper-co unselor relationship—all from
the angle of making camp life construc-
tive and pleasant. If you are in any
phase of recreation work or camping,
as assistant or executive, you’ll find
many sound ideas in this valuable new
book. Tbe author has had over 20 years
of practical experience in recreation
and camp work, as counselor, director
and consultant. Order now—only $3
a copy. Money refunded in 10 days if
not satisfied. VANTAGE PRESS, INC.,
Dept. R, 120 W. 31 St., New York 1.

 

If you are the talented author
at an unpublished manuscript,
let us help gain the recagnition
you deserve. We will publish
your BOOK—we will edit, design,
print, promote, advertise and
sell itl Goad rayalties.

Write for FREE copy of
How To Publish Your Book

COMET PRESS BOOKS, Dept. RMS
200 Varick St., N. Y. 14

FREE

Booklet
on

Publishing

Your
Book

 

Books & Pamphlets
Received

AFRICAN SCULPTURE, Ladislas Segy. Dover
Publications, 920 Broadway, New York 10.
Unpaged. Paper $2.00.

AMERICA’S GARDEN BOOK (Revised Edition),

James and Louise Bush-Brown. Charles
Scribner’s Sons, 597 5th Ave., New York

17. Pp. 752. $7.95.

BRIEF HISTORY OF PIIYSICAL EDUCATION, A
(Fourth Edition), Emmett A. Rice, John

L. Hutchinson, and Mabel Lee. Ronald
‘ Press, 15 E. 26th St., New York 10. Pp. 430.

$4.50.

CAPITALIST MANIFESTO, THE, Louis 0. Kelso
and Mortimer J. Adler. Random House,
457 Madison Ave., New York 22. Pp. 265.
$3.75.

CATHOLIC CAMPS—1958 DIRECTORY, Joseph
O’Donnell, Editor. National Catholic Camp-
ing Association, 1312 Massachusetts Ave.,
N.W., Washington 5. Pp. 80. $1.00.

COMPLETE CHESSPLAYER, THE, Fred Reinfeld.
Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, N. J. Pp.
292. $4.95.

COMPLETE SEA ANGLER, THE, Richard Arn-
old. Sportshelf, 10 Overlook Ter., New
York 33. Pp. 192. $4.50.

CREATIVE PLANNING FOR PARKS AND PLAY
AREAS FOR LEARNING, LIVING AND LEISURE.

School Planning Laboratory Publications,
Stanford, Calif. Pp. 68. $2.50.

      

I956 Enlarged Editlon

TENNIS FOR TEACHERS

This authoritative text, used by more
than 15,000 physical education and
tennis instructors throughout the world,
canlains:

o Analysis of good form in nine strokes °
0 Tactics and strategy used by champions 0
Teaching progressions for Individuals and
groups 0 -
Mass instruction methods for backboard.
gym. or limited court space °
Tennis tests. self-testing. and tournament
activities 0
90 action photos and illustrations °
Official tennis rules -
Detachable bulletin board chart. 18" x 25".
with eighteen illustrations and direc-
tions o

Sent prepaid anywhere in the world... $5.00

H. I. DRIVER CO.
803 Moygara Rd. Madison 4. Wis.

BOOK MAN USCRIPTS

CONSIDERED

by cooperative publisher who alien sutbors esrly
publicstion, bigber royslty, netionsl distribution, and
besutiiully designed books. All subjects welcomed.
Write, or send your manuscript dlrectly.

GREENWICH BOOK PUBLISHERS
Attn. Mr. Hitchcock 489 Fifth Avenue
New York 17, N. Y.

 

age J1me Is National Recreation: Month age

 

174

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

CRAFTSMAN’S MANUAL, TIIE, (Home dec
tion and repairs). F. J. and Rosem
Brinley Christopher, Editors. Philosophi
Library, 15 E. 40th St., New York 16.
192. Two vols., $20.00.

CROSSWORD BOOK OF BIBLE QUOTATIONS, T
Boris Randolph. David McKay, 55 5th A
New York 3. Pp. 151. $2.95.

DIRECTORY OF PRIVATE HOME STUDY SCHO

National Home Study Council, 1420 N

York Ave., N.W., Washington 5, D.
Folder. Free.

EDITING THE SMALL MAGAZINE, Rowena
guson. Columbia University Press, 2
Broadway, New York 27. Pp. 271. $4.

ELEPHANTS IN TIIE GARDEN, Ida Scheib. Da
McKay, 55 5th Ave., New York 3. Pp.
$2.50.

EMPLOYEE EVALUATION, Robert J. Bat
Public Personnel Association, 1313 E. 6
St., Chicago 37. Pp. 39. Paper $2.00.

EVERGLADES ADVENTURE, Stephen W. Mea
Harcourt, Brace, 383 Madison Ave., N

York 17. Pp. 192. $2.75.
FAT CONSUMPTION AND CORONARY DISE

T. L. Cleave. PhilosOphical Library, 15
40th St., New York 16. Pp. 40. $2.50.
FESTIVALS OF WESTERN EUROPE, Dorot

Gladys Spicer. H. W. Wilson, 950 Univ
sity Ave., New York 52. Pp. 275. $5.00.
FUN WITH TIIE FAMILY, Harry D. Edgren a
E. H. Regnier. Stipes Publishing, 10-
Chester St., Champaign, Illinois. Pp. :
Paper $2.00.
GREAT SPORTS STORIES, Herman L. Mas
Editor. Berkley Publishing, 145 W. 5
St., New York 19. Pp. 187. $.35.
HANDBOOK FOR THE AMATEUR THEATRE,
Peter Cotes, Editor. Philosophical Libra
15 E. 40th St., NewYork 16. Pp. 424. $12 '
HAVING FUN WITH MUSIC, Doron K. Antri
Thomas Y. Crowell, 432 4tb Ave., New Y
16. Pp. 112. $3.95.

HELPING YOUR CHILD TO UNDERSTAND DEA .
Anna W. M. Wolf. Child Study Assoc

tion of America, 132 E. 74th St., New Y ._
21. Pp. 63. $.60 (10-99 cOpieS, $.48; v
999 copies, $.42) .
HISTORY AND TECHNIQUE OF LETTERING, TI

Alexander Nesbitt. Dover Publications, ' I
Broadway, New York 10. Pp. 300. Pa

$2.00.

HOAGY CARMICIIAEL’S SONGS FOR CHILDR
Simon & Schuster, 630 5th Ave., New Y
20. Pp. 62. $1.95.

HOGS, Ax HANDLES, AND WOODPECKE
American Association of School Admi
trators, 1201 16th St., N.W., Washingto
Unpaged. $1.00 per dozen ($8.00 per h
dred).

HOW DOES A GARDEN GROW? Ann Tow
Brown. E. P. Dutton, 300 4th Ave., 1\
York 10. Pp. 46. $2.50.

How TO BE A WIZARD IN MAGIC, Robert I
bin. Charles T. Branford, 69 Union
Newton Centre 59, Mass. Pp. 175. $3.5

How TO ORGANIZE AN EMPLOYEE CIIO
GROUP FOR YOUR COMPANY. E. R. Mo
Co., 932 Dakin St., Chicago 13. Unpa
Free.

How TO THINK AND SWING LIKE A G
CHAMPION, Dick Mayer. Thomas Y. 0
well, 432 4th Ave., New York 16. Pp. 4
$3.95.

INSTRUCTIONS To YOUNG SKATERS, Erik
der Weyden. Sportshelf, 10 Overlook T
New York 33. Pp. 126. $3.50.

  
 
  
   
  
   
   
 
   
   
   
  
   
 
   
  
   
  
  
  

i

ll

RECREATI

 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
  

ISURE TIME, Equitable Life Assurance, 393
7th Ave., New York 1. Pp. 48. Free.
' T’S ALL SING. American Camping Associa-
tion, Martinsville, Indiana. Pp. 96. $35.
ATIIEMATICAL EXCURSIONS, Helen A. Mer-
rill. Dover Publications, 920 Broadway,
New York 10. Pp. 145. Paper $1.00.
IILLSTONE WATERSHED (Regional planning
pilot study). Watershed Association, Mar-
shall Corner, P. O. Box 171, Pennington,
N. 1., Pp. 83. Paper $2.00.
ODERN Bow HUNTING, Hiram J. Grogan.
Stackpole Co., Telegraph Press Bldg. Har-
risburg, Pa. Pp. 163. $4.75.
[ODERN BOWLING TECHNIQUE, Junie McMa-
hon and Murray Goodman. Ronald Press,
15 E. 26th St., New York 10. Pp. 80. $2.95.
. ODULAR MANAGEMENT AND HUMAN LEADER-
SHIP, Frank Pieper. Methods Press, Box
4090. University Station, Minneapolis 14.
Pp. 288. $6.50.
ovE OvER or HOW TO WIN AT DRAUGHTS,
I Derek Oldbury. Sportshelf, 10 Overlook
Ter., New York 33. Pp. 126. $3.50.
ATIONAL PARK STORY IN PICTURES, THE,
I Isabelle F. Story. U. S. Government Print-
ing OIEce, Washington 25. Pp. 88. 3.65.
-.' ATIONAL PARK WILDERNESS, THE, Howard R.

Stagner. National Park Service, Washing-
ton 25, D. C. Pp. 37. Free.

- ATURE IS YOUR GUIDE. E. P. Dutton, 300 4th
Ave., New York 10. Pp. 287. $4.95.
BARRY ATTRACTIONS FOR THE NEW YORK
'MOTORIST. Young’s Research Service, P.O.
Box 72, Gracie Station, New York 28. Pp.
64. Paper $1.00.

-' WAY or THE WILDERNESS, THE, Calvin
Rutstrum. MacMillan Co., 60 5th Ave.,
'New York 11. Pp. 276. $4.50.

' ESCIIOOL YEARS, THE, Irma Simonton
IBlack. N. Y. State Department of Health,
Alhany. Pp. 63. Free.

EvENTIVE AND CORRECTIVE PHYSICAL EDU-
CATION (Third Edition), George T. Staf-
ford and Ellen Davis Kelly. Ronald Press,
15 E. 26th St., New York 10. Pp. 395. $5.00.
PPET DO-IT-YOURSELF BOOK, THE, Lois H.
Pratt. Exposition Press, 386 4th Ave., New
York 16. Pp. 75. $3.00.

22LE-MATH, Georgc Gamow and Marvin
Stern. Viking Press, 625 Madison Ave.,
INew York 22. Pp. 119. $2.50.

ADIO PLAYS FROM SHAKESPEARE, Lewy 01f-
son. Plays, Inc., 8 Arlington St., Boston 16.
Pp. 193. $3.75.

ADINc IS FUN, Roma Gans. Bureau of Pub-
Ilications, Teachcrs College, Columbia Uni-
versity, New York 27. Pp. 51. 8.06.
‘ADINGS IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION (For the
elcmentary school). James H. Humphrey,
Edwina Jones, and Martha J. Haverstick.
National Press, 435 Alma St., Palo Alto,
Calif. Pp. 103. Paper $2.50.

+- REATION PLACES, Wayne R. Williams,
Rcinhold Publishing, 430 Park Ave., Ncw
3 ork 22. Pp. 302. $18.00.

IOTIVATING TIIE MENTAL PATIENT, Otto
ron Mering and Stanley H. King. Russell
age Foundation, 505 Park Ave., New York
2. Pp. 216. $3.00.

’IMMINC AND SWIMMING STROKES, Max
adders. Educational Productions, East
I rdsley, Wakefield, Yorkshire, England
p.178. $2.10.

IMMINC FOR TIIE CEREBRAL PALSIED.
Tnitcd Cerebral Palsy Associations, 369
cxington Ave., New York 17. Pp. 8. Free.

I -' 1958

   
 
   
  
   
   
  
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
   
  
   
 
  
 
  
  
   
   
    
 
    
    

 

 

 

Ask any kid who’s tried it. The Trampoline is fun.
Always the favorite recreation at parks, classes or playtime.
And it’s such a good all-around conditioner.

Is the Trampoline part of your recreation program?

WNISSEN

NISSEN TRAMPOLINE COMPANY 200 AAvenue NW, Cedar Rapids, Iowa, U.S.A.

Free to WRITERS

seeking a book publisher

Two fact-filled, illustrated brochures tell how
to publish your book, get 40% royalties, na-
tional advertising, publicity and promotion.
Free editorial appraisal. Write Dept. R4

Exposition Press / 386 4th Ave., N.Y. 16

IT ISN'T A TIIAMPOLIIIE®

 

®Reg. U.S. Pat. Off.

 

 

Attention—-

RECREATION DIRECTORS
Consider CERAMICS

This fast growing hobby offers most
interesting training and constant crea-
tive enjoyment.

Send for Full Information. Our big
68 page complcte catalog is now avail-

.  able. 50¢ 0 individuals. Free O
Jamlso mm... ‘ ‘

81 cur-N. to rh": "Ir- r--I" Cr'm-ivn feature-s of

sehools - institutions, etc.

House Of Ceramics
’01,; I .__'_r“—I." . ,y T ‘ I -:- I " .-_ ‘{ 054 

..... ' ' 24-81 Matthews
Memphis 8, Term.

w 0 m L Today

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 175

 

The Capitalist Manifesto

Louis 0. Kelso and Mortimer J.
Adler. Random House, 457 Madison
Avenue, New York 22. Pp. 265. $3.75.

This book has a great deal to say
about the use of leisure, and therefore
it has good deal to say to anyone seri-
ously concerned about helping people
make the “best” use of leisure time.

Is increased leisure morally desirable
or not? What are the best ways to use
leisure time in our modern society and
why should we—or anybody else—be
concerned? Although the book does
not state these questions, it answers
them—from the Kelso-Adler point of
view, of course.

The essential point of The Capitalist
Manifesto is that Americans must have
a truly “capitalist” society in order to
have more leisure, which they must be
educated to use primarily for what the
authors call “leisure wor ” as opposed
to “subsistence work.” To spread the
ownership of capital as widely as possi-
ble certain economic reforms are pro-
posed, and much of the book is given
to a fairly detailed outline of how these
reforms might be brought about. Edu-
cation, the authors declare, must be
planned to give people not only the new
skills and interests they will need but
also the point of view that “leisure
work” is personally, socially, and mor-
ally desirable.

“In an advanced industrial society,
with a fully capitalistic economy, it
should be normal for ministers, re-
search scientists, philosophers, musi-
cians, poets, painters, lawyers, physi-
cians, statesmen, and those engaged in
mass communication, to carry on such
purely leisure work for the inherent sat-
isfaction and creative pleasure it gives
them. The measure of their merit would
not be the amount of income they de-
rive from such vocations, but rather
the excellence they achieve in their art
and the significance of the contribution
they make to the advancement of civili-
zation.”

Statements such as the above have
already provoked a good deal of argu-
ment. They have also made a number of
people angry. It is probable that they
will anger some recreation leaders too.
Part of this anger undoubtedly is caus-
ed by the authors’ choice of words.
They state, for example: “Leisure is
misconceived as idleness, vacationing
(which involves ‘vacancy’), play, rec-
reation, relaxation, diversion, amuse-

176

PUBLICATIONS

Covering the Leisure-little F ield

ment, and so on. If leisure were that,
it would never have been regarded by
anyone except a child or a childish
adult as something morally better than
socially useful work.”

Yet many of the “liberal activities
productive of the goods of the Spirit
and of civilization,” which the book
recommends, are included in today’s
definition of recreation. If we take the
point of view stated in Introduction to
Community Recreation,“ by George
Butler, that recreation is what we do
for inner satisfaction and not because
of outside compulsion, then the authors’
“leisure work” becomes one aspect of
recreation.

Many will agree. Some may disagree.
In either case the reader of this book
is almost sure to be led to re-examine
his own ideas about what he really
means by “recreation.”

By taking their own ethic of “leisure
work” for granted, the authors have
highlighted a need for more thinking
about that “ethic of leisure” of which
Joseph Prendergast, executive director
of the National Recreation Association,
has so often spoken.

If this volume stimulates such think-
ing on the part of many readers it will
have rendered a real——if unintended-—
service to the recreation movement and
the people of this country.-—Anne L.
New, NRA Department of Public I nfor-

mation and Education.

The Tree Identification Book

George W. D. Symonds. W. Barrows
Company, 425 Fourth Avenue, New
York 16. Pp. 127. $10.00.

In my personal nature library I have
at least a dozen good books on trees.
For easy use, accuracy as to size, easy
comparisons, comparative details on
flowers (all trees Hower, though not all
have fruit), twigs, buds, bark, leaves,
and seasonal variations, there’s no
other book like this one. Photographs
in almost every case are in actual size
-—and what a help that is!

The aim of this book is “to present,
visually, details of trees essential for
practical identification, which in turn
leads to tree recognition. . .Identifica-
tion is based on observation of details.
Recognition means knowing trees at a
glance, just as one recognizes one’s
friends.” Many books help on tree

'"Available from NRA Recreation Book

Center.

  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
   
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  

identification; not many recognition.

This book is broken down into t
main sections. The first, called “Pi
torial Keys,” groups such things .
leaves, flowers, fruit, twigs and ha -
each in a separate section. In each se
tion, things that look alike are plac
together. Under each photograph is
number, referring you easily to the se
0nd section of the book, called “Mast
Pages.” This section is for species iden
fication. Here, all the details of a
given tree, including a picture of t
whole tree, are brought together.

Nothing has been left to chance.
mere fact that most details are sho
in actual size, and when that’s not p
sible, in scale, adds tremendously to i
interest.

This is not “just another tree book
It’s a magnificent job of printing, cla
ifying, and photographing. If you 10
trees, if you have a nature library, tre
yourself to a copy—or start saving yo
pennies! —— Virginia M usselman, NR
Program Service.

ABC of Driftwood for

Flower Arrangers

Florence M. Schaiier. Hearthsi
Press, 118 East 28th Street, New Yor
16. Pp. 128. $3.95.

If you’ve been looking for a ne
hobby, or if you’re looking for a 11
activity for a craft or hobby club, don !
overlook driftwood—and this book! .

Driftwood, as used in this book, '
a generic term, meaning any wood th
has been worn into interesting and bea
tiful shapes by water, wind, sand, er
sion, or other natural causes. It is wo
found not only along a beach, but u
mountains, in canyons, in deserts, alo
the shores of man-made lakes, or a
where else. Such pieces, whether lar
or small, can become beautiful deco
tions, whether used alone or in fiox
arranging. All you need is a creat'
eye to see inherent possibilities, wi
out destroying natural characteristi

Mrs. Schaffer gives full instructi
on cleaning, sanding, polishing
needed), and using driftwood. H
chapter on where to find it shows a gr
love of nature and the out-of-doors.

The remainder of the book consi
of very lovely photographs of vari
pieces of driftwood, each photogr
accompanied by an explanation of

kind of wood, how it was prepared, a
the explanation of the Flower arran
ment used with it. Every illustrati
shows that the author handles her I
dium with respect for its own col
shape and rhythm, and uses it hone
without distortion. The result is a ha a
combination of beauty and utility.
shall add it to my own nature libra
and I recommend it to your attention

RECREATI

Recreation Leadership Training Courses

Sponsored by the National Recreation Association and Local Recreation Agencies

May, June, July 1958

Kingsport, Tennessee Mr. W. C. Mciiorris, Director of Recreation

RUTH G. EHLERS

Social Recreation May 5‘3
Lancaster. Pennsylvania Mr. Al Reese, Jr.. Superintendent of Recreation, 135 N. Lime
June 16-17
Frederick. Maryland Mrs. Helma Hann Bowers, Director of Recreation, 113 E. 7th Street
June 18-19
HELEN M. DAUNCEY San Antonio, Texas Miss Lou Hamilton, Superintendent, Recreation Division, 930 E.
 Recreation .lllne 2‘3 
Mankato, Minnesota
June 9-10 Mr. Robert 1... llorney
St. Cloud, Minnesota NRA Field Representative
June 11-12 110 Shepard Terrace
Superior, Wisconsin Madison, Wisconsin
June 13
Vineland, New Jersey Mr. Jack A. Claes, Supervisor of Recreation, City Hall Annex-—
June 18-20 610 Wood Street
Durham, New Hampshire Mrs. Patricia (Olkkonen) Clow, Recreation Specialist, University
June 23 of New Hampshire
ANNE LIVINGSTON Jackson. Mississippi Mr. Herbert Wilson, Director of Recreation, 2301-—15th Street,
Social Recreation June 3‘4 '“lfport
Charleston, West Virginia Mr. Robert E. Kresge, Superintendent of Parks and Recreation,
June 5-6 310 City Bnilding
Toledo, Ohio Mr. A. C. Morse, Supervisor of Recreation, 214 Safety Building
June 16-19
FRANK A_ STAPLES Danville, Virginia Miss Constance Rollison, Program Director, Department of
Am, and Crafts June 11-13 Recreation
Toledo, Ohio Mr. A. G. Morse, Supervisor of Recreation, 214 Safety Building
June 16-19
Otisville, New York Mr. Benjamin J. Hill, Superintendent, Otisville Training School
June 23-26 for Boys
DISTRICT CONFERENCE SCHEDULE
New England Norwich Inn, Norwich, Connecticut May 18-21

 

“Every Issue is Full of Good Ideas”

Gerald M. Van Pool, a leading figure on the national education scene, urges state Student

Council secretaries to subscribe to SCHOOL ACTIVITIES Magazine because “every issue
is full of good ideas to help uS improve student councils.”——GERALD M. VAN POOL, Director
of Student Activities National Education Association.

 

Every student leader and faculty sponsor of an activity in your school will appreciate the down-to-earth
ideas and suggestions in SCHOOL ACTIVITIES Magazine. In your school library, it will help you

month after month in planning successful programs for assemblies, plays, clubs, athletics, debatc, music,
student publications, and student government.

SCHOOL ACTIVITIES is the only national magazine in the extracurricular field. Readers look to it
for expert leadership and rely on it to help them solve their problems in any student activity program.

SCHOOL ACTIVITIES PUBLISHING Co.
1041 NEW HAMPSHIRE
LAWRENCE, KANSAS

SUBSCRIBE NOW!

   
 
 
  
  
   
 

Please enter my subscription to SCHOOL ACTIVITIES for
__._years.

One Year $4.00
Two Years $7.00

Name .___________.___._....___
Clip and mail

Address __._______.__.________..____.

the order form to:

 

City ________._______ State

Wham writinv to nnr advertise." ulna". mention Rtmtl'l’lnNL

 

OU’VE said good-by to the brid

who was once your little girl, and to that'handsome boy who is now you
son. The youngsters are on their own: and so, after twenty-odd years, ar
you! Now is the time to think of yourselves—your pleasures, your security
your eventual retirement. A good time to start putting part of your saving
away in safe, sure, United States Savings Bonds. Where nothing can touc

your principal. And where your money earns 3V4% when bonds are held t
maturity. Series E Bonds grow in value, year by year—and Series H Bond
pay you interest twice a year.Whichever you choose, start your bond progra

today! When financial independence counts, count on U. S. Savings Bonds

“km,

;%
“a 

The U. 8'. Government does not pay for this advertisement.
It is donated by this publication in cooperation with. the Ad-

vertising Canncil and the Magazine Publishers Association.

limb.

