 

   
 

‘

375—Ideas for Christmas . . . . . . . . . .$2.00

To help make Christmas a more complete family
holiday. Covers story of Christmas, customs, carols,
decorations, parties, gifts, food, etc. Illustrated.

920—Holiday Craft and Fun . . . . . . . . 2.95

By Joseph Leetning. A valuable craft book, full of
clever ideas for party materials, favors, games for
seventeen important holidays all around the year.

919—Holiday Candy and Cookie
Cookbook . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.00

By J. H. Degros. Recipes for making extra special
goodies for all holidays, and instructions for basic
candies and cookies.

609—Tales for Telling* . . . . . . . . . . . 2.75

By Katherine Wiiiiarns Watson. Timed stories a—
dapted from old favorites and arranged under the
following classiiications: Christmas, Easter, fairy
and folk tales, farm, Halloween, humor, Indian.
Thanksgiving.

923—Make Your Own Merry Christmas 2.50

By Anne Wertsner. A guide to handmade Yuletide
decorations. Thirty illustrations.

779—The Candle Book . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.50

By Carii Lakian. The first and complete book on
candles and candlecraft as a hobby or for money
making. Pp. 190.

362—-—The Modern Treasury of
Christmas Plays . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.50

By Lawrence M. Brings. Compilation of 22 one-act
plays carefully edited to meet the needs of churches
and schools, suitable for adults and teen-agers. Em—
phasis on the real spirit of Christmas. '

1226—A Treasury of Christmas Plays . . 5.00

Ed. by Syivia E. Kamerrnan. 40 traditional and mod—
ern one-act Christmas plays. Entertaining comedies.
dramatizations of the Christmas story, legends and
fantasies. For lower grades through senior high.

Christmas Carol Song Sheets . . . . . . . . . . . . .

RECREATION BOOK CENTER
8 West Eighth Street, New York 11, New York

Prices subject to pubiisher’s changes.

P 119—A Harvest Home Thanksgiving Party . . . . .$ .1

P 127—Thanksgiving Down on the Farm . . . . . . . . .1
A party for large groUps.

P 120——Two Ceremonial Programs for Thanksgiving .1
Simple ceremonies with music, good for church or communit
house.

1265—It’s Time for Thanksgiving . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.7

CHRISTMAS

  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
    
  
 
  
 
 
 
  

THANKSGIVING

Suitable for small groups.

By Eiizabeth Hough Sechrist and Janette Wooisey. Contains
short history of the first Thanksgiving and customs. Stories, royal
ty-free plays, poems, party games, recipes. Written especially fo
young people. Pp. 251.

1262—The Big Book of Christmas * . . 1.4

By Aiieen Fisher. A collection of plays, songs, read
ings. recitations, pantomimes, skits, and suggestio
for things to make and do for Christmas. For schoo
and churches.

914—Christmas Idea Book . . . . . . . . . 3.5

By Dorothy Biddie and Dorothea Biom. Hundre
of decorations and useful items for homemakers an
garden-club members to make for Christmas. 12
photographs and two in color.

376—Let’s Celebrate C h r i s t m a s -—

Parties, Plays, Legends, Carols,

Poetry, Stories . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.5

By Horace J. Gardner. For family, club, group lea
ers, low-budget ideas for Christmas festivities. Cu
toms in other lands, decorations, refreshments, m
terials for readings. Illustrated.

.1230—Singing Holidays: The Calendar
in Folk Song . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.

By Oscar Brand. Ninety favorites which tie in wi
thirty American holidays, for use with the family,
the classroom, and at community gatherings. Ill
trated.

P 196—A Community Christmas Party. . .

Planning suggestions with many games, stunts, a
contests.

364—The Christmas Book
By Marguerite Ickis.

365—Christmas Crafts and Decorations .
National Recreation Association.

366—Gan1es for the Christmas Season .
National Recreation Association.
376—Plays, Pageants, and Cerenlonials
for the Christmas Season . . . . . . .
National Recreation Association. ‘

P l32—St0ries of the Christmas Carols . . .

With suggestions for a “Learn a Carol a Day” p
gram.

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,000 for $8.00; 100 for $.80

* Not subject to NRA membership discou

 

 

CHRISTMAS SEALS
AT WORK!

 

A most important medical dis—
covery during the past year was a
blood test for the detection of

tuberculosis.

Made possible by your purchase
of Christmas Seals—under a grant
from the National Tuberculosis
Association—it is now undergoing

widespread trials.
Continue the tight against TB—
send in your contribution today.

Buy

and use
Christmas
Seals

This space contributed to
the National Tuberculosis
Association and its
afflllatea by

NATIONAL RECREATION
ASSOCIATION

  

CHAPION

PLAYGROUND EQUIPMENT
“SCALED TO CHILD SIZE”

FREE LITERATURE
GYM — PLAYGROUND —— POOL

Highland Park, III.

All-metal SNAP-ON
basketball nets.
Use in or outdoors.
No Instruction
needed, lust snap
into loops. $6.75
a pair.

 

Write

LOU-PEL Mfr.

32 MONROE ST., WATERFORD, CONN.

 

TOVEMBER 1958

 

 

ESPECIALLY DESIGNED
FOR HEAVY DUTY USE

7m M 0m
""\.

0 c'cc'dt'
24:55am

SIZE and

BALL BOUNCE

4 lEGS TO
EACH SECTION

Nationally recognised and used by
the ARMED FORCES, COLLEGES,
MUNICIPALITIES, RECREATION CEN-
TERS, SCHOOLS, CLUBS. PARKS.c-tc.

MODEL #104 MODEL #106
as above wIth B sturdy snap In type
stotIonary legs. folding legs.

' No Mointenonce or Replacement Problems.
' Sturdy thetlme Construction.

' SECURELY INSTALLED HEAVY GAUGE
ALUMINUM CENTER NET

For FU LI.
DETAILS
WRITE

All METAL TENNIS TABLE (0.
P.O.BOX I42,TEANECK, NJ.

 

Leased FREE!

Stop wasting time recording inventory casts,
handing out balls and paying tap prices for low
quality balls. Install this attractive, cast-cutting
TFT Table Tennis Ball Meter NOWI

 

Leased FREE to responsible agencies an $10.00
depasit subiect to refund. Trouble-free aperatian
assured-return machine for FREE repair. Attrac-
tive hard wood and metal cabinet-7V2 x 8% x 15
inches high. Easy to install. Holds 120 balls—
dispenses each for 10¢. Choice of 3 grades of
tap quality balls. Use profit to maintain and re-
place paddles, nets, etc. No risk guarantee. Send
for free falder: “Stop Wasting Their Time."

T. f. TWARDZIK 8. (0.,

TNCORPORATEO

SHENANDOAH, PENNA.

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

   
     

 

B O O K S
from Prentice-Hall

CREATIVE CRAFTS

FOR CHILDREN

by KENNETH R. BENSON,
New York University

Featuring the newest ideas in creative
crafts, this new manual will show your
students how to organize and maintain
a successful crafts program.

This text treats crafts as a way to living
and is designed to stimulate the child’s
originality and to present him with an
opportunity to deve10p his creativity.
All the projects are eSpecially chosen for
children from the ages of 6 to 16, and
are selected to retain their interest
while providing educational experi-
ences.

T06 pp. Pub. T958 Text price $3.95

      
     
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
       
   
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
       
       
   
   
   
   
       
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
 
 
    

SPORTS St RECREATION
FACILITIES: FOR SCHOOL
AND COMMUNITY

Edited by M. ALEXANDER GABRIELSEN,
New York University and CASWELL M.
MILES, Chief of the Bureau of Physical
Educotian, State Department of Educa~
tion, New York

Here, for the first time, is a textbook
which carefully outlines the planning
process for designing modern sports and
recreation facilities.

Leading educational authorities, archi—
tects and engineers, active in the plan-
ning and construction of Sports facili-
ties as well as experts in various tech-
nical organizations, have contributed to
this unusual book. Years of experience
and research are combined to give you
the best in facility planning.

370 pp. Pub. T958 Text price $6.00

A POCKET GUIDE OF
GAMES AND RHYTHMS
FOR THE ELEMENTARY

SCHOOL

by MARJORIE LATCHAW,
The University of California

This unusual “anthology” of games has
been compiled to aid the child in de-
vel0ping self-confidence, motor, social,
and problem-solving skills.

320 pp. Pub. T956 Text price $2.95
ilius.

POCKET GUIDE OF

DANCE ACTIVITIES

by MARJORIE LATCHAW ond

JEAN PYATT, bath of The University of

California
The materials in this new text have
been prepared as practical aids in
bridging the gap between the theoreti-
cal aspects of dance, and the actual
teaching situation.

232 pp. Pub. i958 Text price $2.75

To receive appravai copies
promptiy, write: Box 903

PRENTICE-HALL, Inc.
Englewaad Clifis, New Jersey

   

297

 

Harvest Hymn

Once more the liberal year laughs out
O’er richer stores than gems or gold;

Once more with harvest song and shout
Is Nature’s bloodless triumph told.

0h, favors every year made new!
0h, gifts with rain and sunshine sent!
The bounty overruns our due,
The fullness shames our discontent.
* 'I' 'II' 'I'
And let these altars, wreathed with
flowers
And piled with fruits awake again
Thanhsgivings for the golden hours,
The early and the latter rain.’

—J0HN GREENLEAF WHITTIER

) AN EXCITING AND IIEARTENING RE-
TURN of the recent questionnaire sent
recreation executives by RECREATION
Magazine is now being tabulated, with
very interesting results. Out of a mail-
ing of 1400, 650 have come back, to
date. Those familiar with surveys and
studies can appreciate what an unusual-
ly high percentage this is. Our sincere
thanks to our friends in the recreation
profession! Now you can start watch-
ing the pages of future issues for a story
giving the portrait of that important ex-
ecutive—«Mr. Recreation.

) A NEW QUARTERLY MAGAZINE made
its debut in September. The Fund
Raiser has been planned to cover the
national fund-raising market and will
carry “know-how” articles on running
fund-raising events. It will be pub-

lishcd quarterly by the Jennings Mur-°

phy Publishing Company and is being
circulated to more th an 100,000
churches, schools, clubs, and other non-
profit volunteer organizations. For a
free sample copy, write on your official

stationery to the magazine at 6507
Third .Avenue, Detroit 2, Michigan.

) TIIE BIENNIAL INTERNATIONAL CON-
FERENCE OF SOCIAL WORK, to be held in
Tokyo, Japan, November 30 to Decem-
ber 6, is being attended by a few hun-
dred U. S. social workers. A represent-
ative of the recreation field will be
Georgene E. Bowen of Philadelphia,

who has pioneered in the organization

Ann

of leisure-time programs for older peo-
ple, and is the author of Summer Is

Ageless, recently published by NRA.

The U. S. Committee of lCSW will
have reporters covering principal meet-
ings. For further information write the

committee, c/o National Social Wel-
fare Assembly, 345 East 46th Street,
New York 17.

b 1960 HAS JUST BEEN PROCLAIMED
Visit the United States of America Year
by President Eisenhower. In a special
proclamation he says, in part: “I re-
quest the appropriate oflicials of the fed-
eral government and of the several
states, territories, possessions, and mu-
nicipalities of the United States to co-
operate in the preparation for, and ob-
servance of, that year. 1 also urge busi-
ness, labor, agricultural, educational,
and civic groups, as well as the people

of the United States generally, to ob- .

serve [this] with exhibits, ceremonies,
and other appropriate activities.”

) A WRITING CONTEST FOR TEEN-AGERS
in the United States and Canada, spon-
sored by the Sheaffer Pen Company for
the fifth consecutive year, is being con-
ducted by Scholastic Magazines. Prizes,
totaling $3,300 in cash, plus Shealfer
fountain pens, are awarded for best en-
tries in short story, short-short story,
poetry, informal essay, formal essay,
articles and drama categories for both
senior and junior high school students.
More information available from Scho-
lastic Magazines, 33 West 42nd Street,
New York 36.

} “ALL TOO OFTEN we act as though
reading were something very important
for children to learn, for use in school
or in homework, but having no bearing
on good constructive everyday living at
home, work or play.”—ROMA GANS,
Reading Is Fun, Columbia University
Press.

Don’t forget
Book Week, November 2 to 8.

children get a good start.

National Children’s
Help

) Planning a Successful Christmas
Party is the title of a free pamphlet on
large-scale yuletide parties for children,
put out by Organization Services, lnc.,

8259 Livernois Avenue, Detroit I
Michigan, which services compani
and industries with ideas and mercha
dise for'parties.

Erratum ——

b You and Your Car, a pamphlet lis
ed as free, in this section in June, sel
for fifteen cents for single copie
Quantity rates available from lnteri

dustry Highway Safety Committee, In

1200 18th Street, N .W., Washington
D. C.

) CONGRESS AUTHORIZED 'ALMOST

BILLION DOLLARS for education 3
August 23, when it gave final approv
to The National Defense Education A
of 1958. It includes, among oth
things, funds for student loans, begi
ning at $47,500,000 the first year, ri
ing to $90,000,000 during the fourt
The U. S. Commissioner of Educati
will administer the loans directly to i
stitutions, which in turn, will lend I
individual students. The loans will co
3 per cent annually and may be awar
ed at $1,000 per year with a maxilnu
of $5,000. It also includes fellowshi
for students in new or expanded gra
uate programs approved by the U. "
Commissioner of Education. Durin

the first year $4,800,000 has been a
thorized for 1,000 fellowships of 82,0

(more with dependents) per year, wit
a maximum of three years of eligibi
ity for each fellow. The authorizatio
gradually rises to $22,500,000 duri
the fourth year of the program.

The October NEA Journal has co -
plete information on this new legisl
tion, including details of NEA’s pa
in effecting its passage.

) TREASURES OF THE NATIONAL GA
LERY can now be enjoyed without vis
ing Washington. The gallery has pr
pared a fifty-minute program of ma
nificent color slides and explanato
narrative entitled “American Pai
ing.” This may be borrowed witho
charge. Write to the Education Depa
ment, National Gallery of Art, Was
ington 25, D. C.

Ill and Handicapped

Recreation personnel working with
the ill and handicapped will be inter-
ested in the following departments and
articles in this issue: “Letters to the
Editor”; “Tell Your Story with Pic-
tures”; “Little House—Big Dividend”;
“Adaptable Program Ideas”; “Market
News”; “Editorially Speaking”; “Hos-
pital Capsules”; “Your Holiday List”;
“New Publications”; and “Angel
Music for Christmas.”

 

D“hh“ am!

 

OVEMBER 1958

 

Editor in Chief, JOSEPH PRENDERGAST
Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON
Business Manager, RALPH C. MORRIS

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Recreation Administration, GEORGE BUTLER
Program Activities, VIRGINIA NIUSSELMAN

  
  
 
   
  
    
  
  
   

 

VOL. Ll. Price 50 Cents N0. 9

0n the Cover

“RAH!” This vibrant young cheer leader typifies
the thrill of the football season and the crisp ex-
hilaration of Fall weather. Photo by Major Marion
B. Bowers of Baton Rouge, Louisiana, is a Marine
Corps entry, won honorable mention in the Third
lntcrservice Photography Contest, 1951.

Next Month

DO you know how to make an old-time Kissing
Ball for Christmas or various kinds of Christmas
angels for your decorations? How would you con-
struct the figures if you decided to build a life-size
creche for your community square or park? You
will find Christmas suggestions mixed in with other
good articles on such subjects as how to build and
keep up an outdoor skating area, how to plan and
conduct a hang-up program for “young married’s.
a new Twelfth Night program. Notable, too, will
be our usual December stories and pictures of the
National Recreation Congress, as well as RECREA-
TI()I\"S annual index.

Photo Credits

Page 304, National High School Photographic
Awards; 305, (left) Recreation Commission, Long
Beach, Calif., (right) Park and Recreation Depart-
ment, San Diego, Calif.; 308, Cal-Pictures, San Fran-
cisco; 310, National Park Service; 311, (left) War-
ren Reynolds-Infinity, Inc., Minneapolis, (right)
Robert C. Lautman, Washington, D. C.; 314. (top)
Warren Hern (aged 171, Englewood, Colo., (bottom
left) Douglas Gilbert (aged 15), Holland, Michigan,
(bottom right), Richard Real (aged 18), El Cajon,
Calif.; 3l5,Gediminas Naujokaitis,Brooklyn, N.Y.;
318-19, The Cleveland Press, Cleveland, Ohio.

 

RECREATION is published monthly except July and
August by the National Recreation Association, a service
organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 8
West Eighth Street, New York 11, New York, is on
file in public libraries and is indexed in the Readers’
Guide. Subscriptions $4.00 a year. Canadian and for-
eign ‘subscription rate 54.50. Re—entered as second-class
matter April 25, 1950, at the Post Office in New York,
New York under Act of March 5. 1879. Acceptance
for mailing at special rate of pOStage provided for in
Section 1103, Act of October 3. 1917, authorized May
1, 1924. Microfilms of current issues available Uni-
versity Microfilms, 513 N. First Street, Ann Arbor,
Michigan.

Space Representatives: Mark Minahan. 185 North Wa-
bash Avenue, Chicago 1. Illinois; Seymour A. Rob-
bins 5: Associates, 489 Fiftb Avenue, New York 17.
New York.
Copyright, 1958. by the
National Recreation Association, Incorporated

Printed in the U.S.A. 
l O to $8,513.

‘ Trade mark registered in U. S. Patent Oflice.

NOVEMBER 1958

 

 

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

CONTENTS

GENERAL FEATURES

Hosteling—Recreation for Our Age (Editorial)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Henry W. Triulble, Jr. 300

Do Teen Centers Answer Teen Problems? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 304

In Defense of the Young . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Rosa Vermonte 307

Little House—Big Dividend . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 303

Tell Your Story with Pictures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 314-

National Reereation Month—How to Use It . . . . . . . . . . . . 317
ADDIINISTRATION
The Administration of Maintenance. . . . .Charles E. Doell 323
The Importance of Good Planning . . . . . .George D. Butler 325
Research Reviews and Abstracts . . . . . . . .George D. Butler 326
PRDGRANI
Angcl Music for Christmas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 312
Explorers of the Air . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .George Seetlhouse 318
Adaptable Program Ideas
Vcrsatilc Equipment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Elliott Cohen 320
The Underestimatcd Hobby . . . . . . . . . . .Dick Stracke 321
lutlepcntlellt Basketball . . . . . . . . . .  . . .Clmrles G. Stone 322
REGULAR FEATURES
Things You Should Know . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 298

Letters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 301

Editorially Speaking . . . . . . . . . . . . . .l)orotl1y Donaldson 303

A Reporter’s Notebook . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 310

Market News . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jeau Waelttel 323

Index of Atlvertiscrs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 329

Classified Advertising . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 329

Hospital Capsules . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Bcatriee H. Hill 330

Magazine Articles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 331

Books and Pamphlets Received . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 331

New Publications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 332

 

DUCATIONAL
RESS
SSOCI ATION

 
 
  
 

AMERICA

The orticles herein printed ore the expres-
OF sions of the writers ond not ft statement of
,, . . . . . policy of tho Notionol Recreotioi. Association.

299

 

Here, the author and Mrs. Trimble ap-
pear as typical youth lmstelers. Actually,
Mr. Trimble is AYII national president.

Hosteling-—
Recreation

lor Our Age

Henry W. Trimble, Jr.

SPUTNIKS, atom smashers, heavy in-
dustry, more specialization, more
speed, more commercialization, and less
time spent getting to known and under-
stand the ways of other peoples—this
is the “shape of things” to come we and
our children face. This is the formid-
able outlook confronting us in the
United States and the peoples of many
lands. Something more must be done to
bring about a better balance between
the continuing high development of
technical progress and our slow social
progress in teaching pe0ple how to get
along.

As those of us working in recreation
know, wise use of leisure time can do a
great deal to help satisfy both our social
and educational needs. For the last five
years I have been serving on the board

MR. TRIMBLE is corporate secretary of
the International Business Machines
Corporation and national president of
the American Youth Hostels.

Q0“

of directors of the American Youth
Hostels. I have found in the program
called “hosteling” a wonderful type of
recreation for our age.

Hosteling is a world-wide movement
based on outdoor living and travel. Its
aim is to help young people see the
world at low cost via the self-service
“do-it-yourself” method. One of the
aims of the Youth Hostel Associations
in thirty-three countries is helping
young pe0ple understand each other;
hecause of this lack we adults are con-
stantly in all kinds of dilemmas. It is
definitely our responsibility to see that
following generations shall be given
every opportunity to establish such un-
derstanding.

The reason our social progress is so
much slower than our technical prog-
ress is simply that much less time is
spent studying and working to improve
social interaction than in developing
mechanical processes. It is our respon-
sibility to see that young folks of many
lands have more time to play together
and learn together. The more varied
the races and cultures involved in our
recreation programs, the better will be
the future total understanding.

The youth hostel program provides
tremendous Opportunities for recrea-
tion, educational travel, and numerous
activities featuring life in the outdoors.
These include cycling, hiking, canoeing,
skiing, and horseback riding.

At the present time, throughout the
world, there are 3,200 youth hostels,
with 185,000 beds. A total of 13,366,-
000 overnights are registered by 1,300,-
000 youth hostel members; of this num-
ber, Americans register about 110,000,
at home and abroad. This is not our
fair proportion in relation to our pop-
ulation, and the AYH is working to
remedy the situation. Between 1953-
1957, AYH membership has increased
at an average yearly rate of 7.2 per
cent. In 1958, membership increased
20 per cent. Likewise, there is a 15 per
cent increase in the number of Ameri-
cans participating in the AYH national
sponsored trips program.

This past summer I had the privilege
of traveling in Europe and attending
the International Youth Hostel Feder-

ation meeting at Diest, Belgium. Thirty-
two countries were rcpresented: Moroc-

co, Tunisia, India, Japan, the Congo,
addition to European and America
countries. There was also a giganti
youth hostel rally attended by fourteen
hundred hostel members from all over
the world. The spirit of friendship and
comradeship shown by these young peo-
ple exemplifies the feeling that should
exist in our business and social lives.
Whilc abroad, I visited six countries
and everywhere I saw youths hiking
and cycling along the roadways and by-
ways. What a contrast to our own coun
try! It is a pity that our young people
do not have the same opportunities; we
have really shortchanged them by our
failure to furnish leadership to train
them for more hiking and cycling trips,
by failing to provide more bike paths
along our roadways so that cycling can
be enjoyed in safety. We do not use the
hiking trails in our county, state, and
national parks nearly as much as we

should.

American youth also lacks important
training in how to get along with peo-
ple of foreign lands; few can converse
in a Second language. They miss many
health benefits because of the example
we adults set by riding in automobiles
everywhere we go—even around the
corner to the grocery. Somehow this
trend must be reversed by parents,
teachers, recreation and youth leaders;
we must try to teach more of our young
how to travel on their own, to new areas
at home and abroad so they can meet
new people. A good part of this journey-
ing should be afoot, on bikes, on skiis,
and in canoes. This does not mean we
give up cars. Let us use them to take
our youth out of the cities into the hin-
terland where, for health’s sake, and the
betterment of the world in general,
their feet can be placed on the ground
more often and their high tempo of liv-
ing slowed.

H
:3

Hosteling does this. Hostel travel is
simple and unaffected. You are ac-
cepted in a youth hostel for what you
are and not who you are. The combina-
tion of activities in the great outdoors,
and the eXploration of new areas, which
is hosteling, is a most satisfying blend
of recreation and education. Hosteling
is recreation for our age. #

o AYH will celebrate its 25th anniver-
sary year in 1959.—Ed.

“PPRFaTInN’

 

NEW 1958'

Illustrated .

CATALOG:

Lists training aids and equipment.
for club or classroom instruction. An

essential guide .
//,
I V I

  
   
  
  
 
 

 

Likes September Editorial

"I ear Sirs:

i Harold Williams’ bold editorial in

, e September issue contains some
t ather serious indictments of our pro-
a cssional behavior. And maybe he is a
L 0t more right than you and I would
‘ 'ke to believe. I don’t know Mr. \Vil-
iams but offhand I assume he is out-
a ide the profession looking in. And
,' aybe this is good, because it seems to
e most of the more profound, meaty
- uff I have had occasion to read this
D ast year has been writtcn by “out-
i1 iders.” Perhaps this implies we ought
t 0 develop the habit of getting outside
ur tight little circle and looking in.

have a hunch we might find more.
'or instance, we haven’t agreed upon a
ealistic definition of recreation. Too
many of us can’t tell why we are in
usiness without resorting to the plati-
tudes. We still rely on too many con-
ceptual patterns outmoded and ethereal
in nature. W'ouldn’t it be a heck of a
note if we have only a vocation, and not
a true profession!

But I liked it. Please, we need more
of this. Stimulating. Thought provok-

    

I

pi

to an impor-.
__ _ tant activity. 0

0
Write Dept. R for .

S J

AMERICA'S OLDEST AND [ARGESI IMPORIERS AND MANUFACTURERS OF

  your free c0py .

. . Q . 30EAST‘IOth STREET,N.Y.3,N.Y.-6Ramercy --ssao O O O O O O O O

 

JIL

iiiilnsmnnnum
Alwns chLROMmssn

._._ “.4:

d?

h

u" New 
4m 6M
TRAMPOLINE

The popular medium-sized
Trampoline that delivers stand-
ard performance for phySLcal

'- 'r.‘

  

ing. Irritatina. edu cation ONLY
C‘ . programs of
HAROLD G. MYRON, Director of 1360- elementary
, . . . . and tumor
reatton, 10 Pttkm Avenue, Htgh- gigh lslchools. .
o 0 ma CT In
laud Park: Alwhl'gan' size, big in Frame pads

value. optional and extra
IO..0.0000000000IOOOOOOIOIOO

Group Action in California

New NISSEN

2-Way FOLDING

Dear Sirs:
9 OVAL TUBING FLEXIBILITY
Who' Ten members Of our Recrea' Extra strength and All Nissen Trampo-
tion and Park Commission. better bounce from lines can be easily

What? Subscribed to RECREATION.

When? August ’58 through July ’59.

\Vhere? Through the Director of
Recreation.

Why? To follow the motto “Ac-
tion”—“Always Consume the Informa-
tion Offered by the National Recreation
Association.”

Also, the following have enrolled in
the group course, “Municipal Recrea-
tion Administration,” available through
the International City Managers’ Asso-
ciation. They are: Lee Solomon, com-
mission chairman; Rod Neilson. vice-
chairman; Ann Carlson, secretary; Ella
Alexander, Ed Coury, Glenn Donovan,
Stanley Kojac, and Louis Steffens,
members; Joe Leach, assistant city
manager; and Don Watkins, recreation
supervisor.

In addition, the city council voted to
build a new recreation center at Do-
minguez Park; estimated cost. $175,-
000. The commission also voted to send
thc director of recreation to the Na-
tional Recreation Congress and to at-

NOVEMBER 1958

 

 

TRAMBOLINE ._co.

this new light-weight
frame design. Exclu-
sive with Nissen, on
Regulation and Goliath
models.

'Reg. U.S. Pat. Off.

AMERICA'S FINEST ATHLETIC BALLS

or 1'

NEW YORK 11
CHICAGO 11
L08 ANGELES 11

/'

GOES WITH THE GAME

“half-folded" for

greater convenience,

and FLASH-FOLDED
for out-of-the-way
Storage.

 

FOR EVERY AGE GROUP,
PRICE OR SKILL—

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

Home Office and Factory: 200 A Avenue, N.W., Cedar Rapids, Iowa. LI.S.A.
Branch Offices and Factories:
NISSEN TRAMPDLINE COMPANY, LTD.
Hainault Works. Chadwell Heath, Romford, Essex, England .
NISSEN TRAMPOLINE OFDCANAOA LTO., Ter. A., Box 427, Toronto 1, Ontario
NISSEN TRAMPOLINE. GiJmIigen (Berne) Switzerland

0000000“: IT ISN'T A NISSEN. IT ISN'T A TRAMPOLINEOOOOOOO

30].

 
 
  
  
  
   
  

 

, SUpeerr Design,
1‘ Construction and
PEBrURMANCE

    

strength and
S A F E T Y !

  

"Stationary" rocks
in single or double
face units snap-lock
rigidly together to fit
any space or provide
- copocity required.

A

. far greater -  '

  
 

 

 
   
       

 

’«no
PLAYGROUND

AND SWIMMING I
POOL EQUIPMENT

The wise choice of experienced

buyers for nearly half a century. 
COAT and HAT RACKS -
WRITE FOR “TERA TURE Style D.F. 4-40. Portable Checker Rack (illustrated)

r—~ is 4 ft. 2 ln. long: holds 40 coats and hats: goes
_ -, wherever needed on large. ball-bearlng-swivel

“r m}: - w" ""
AMERICAN
PLAYGROUND DEVICE CO.

ANDERSON, INDIANA, U.S.A.

WORLD'S LARGESI MANUFACTURERS or FINE
PARK, PICNIC, PLAYGROUND," swmmuo
POOI. AND DRESSING ROOM EOUImENr

   

 

 

 

casters. Comes with or wlthout checks and snap-on
numbers. Strongly welded of square tubular. heavy
gauge and highly embossed furniture steel Smart
in modern baked finishes. Give lifetime service—
never sag, creak or sway. 3 ft.. 4 a 5 ft. units avail-
able. as well as other efficient space saving equip-

ment for every church. school. commercial.
Industrial and Institutional need.

Write for Bulletin CK-S‘IS

VOGEl-PETERSON C0.

112'! W. 37th Street - Chicago 9, Illinois

  

the new low cost

RUBBERIZED
PLAYGROUND

Saf-Pla is the new rubberized playground surfacing material that
greatly reduces injuries from falling on hard, abrasive or unsurfaced
playgrounds. According to statements made recently by playground
directors, where Saf-Pla was installed, there has been a noticeable decrease
in bruises, abrasions and cuts from children falling, and in some cases
there have been no accident reports at all. No miraculous results are
claimed, but, for all normal purposes, where children are running and
playing it has been proved that painful accidents will be reduced or
eliminated. Saf-Pla can be applied to black top, concrete or
properly surfaced areas.

write for bulletin no. 13 . . .

RUBBER RECLAIMING CO..

NEW YORK

 
         

INC.

BOX 365 BUFFALO 5,

idea what excitement the article has
created. It will be a part of Mr. Heh-
eghan’s
speech at a Chamber of Commerce
breakfast. . . .

to tell you how much we all appreciate
your interest and encouragement.

When writino In our anLF-rtiuprc: nlpncn montinn RFPDI‘ATIn‘u

tend the Third Annual Institutc in Rec
reation Administration.

FRED TWEEDY, Director of Recrea

tion, 129 South Catalina Avenue
Redondo Beach, California.

Evening Recreation Activities

  
  
    
    
  

Dear Sirs:

In reply to recent questions regard-
ing the effects of evening recreati01
classes in relation to wclfare and grade
of school children, I am happy to give
you my personal Opinion as formed
over the past fifteen years of closely
related fields of youth work. I have
worked in the teaching, coaching, camp-
ing, and recreation fields and as a

YMCA secretary.

I assume that it goes without saying
that any activity to be of value should
be wisely chosen, properly supervised,
and well instructed. If conducted on
such high standards and in relation to

the carry-ovcr value intended, the skills
learned should be of great value both

as a child and as an adult and should

add greatly to the knowledge and the
happiness throughout a lifetime.

As to the more spccihc qucstion:
Do evening recreation activities cause
poorer grades in those children taking
part in such activities? May I again
answer this question by stating that
having been a schoolteacher and pres-
ently a school board member it has
been my observation that the student
who keeps constructively occupied in
well-supervised activities, whether they
be in school, home, or community, is

usually the boy or girl that stands at
the head of his class.

It is my own belief that we, as lead-
ers of our communities, should do
everything in our power to see that
every citizen in our community, both
young and old, has a better chance to
broaden his education and enrich his
life, and this very definitely includes
the constructive use of leisure time.

CLARENCE B. SIIELNUTT, President,
New Hampshire Recreation Soci-

ety, Tilton-Northheld, N. H.

Happy Reader
Dear Sir:

Oh, it is just wonderful! And I do
mean “The Cycle Set Revs Up for a
Ball” (September). You just have no

(recreation superintendent)

There are just not adjectives enough

PHYLLIS DEWEY, Assistant Recrea-
lion Director, Hollywood, Florida.

DFFDT.‘ A "I‘Tn‘hf

 

 

Editorially Speaking

Dorothy Donaldson

 

Help \Vanted

The importance of volunteers to serv-
ice-organization work is currcntly em-
phasized by a drive in New York City
for 10,000 more, although today’s ros-
ter of this anonymous corps totals 50,-
000 throughout the city. So urgent is
the need, that nine major service or-
ganizations have banded together for
the first time to work jointly toward the
enlistment of additional volunteer help.
In fact, the New York Post, of Septem-
bcr 21, devoted one whole page to this.

“No pay, but rich rewards,” is the
slogan adopted by the newspaper. It
goes on to say, “The volunteers usually
want to give more than they get. Often
they discover that they get more than
they give.” As many of us have learn-
ed, however, these rewards travel a
two-way street. The intelligent use of
the right volunteers for the right jobs
helps the service agency extend its
reach and increase its services. Each
volunteer has his own unique contri-
bution to make; we in the agency em-
ploying him must find ways of freeing
him to make it.

The participation of lay citizens in
community affairs is important and de-
sirable, and here is an opportunity to
pull them into our programs on an in-
dividual and informal basis. As super-
intendents and dircctors of recreation,
we should be conscious of the need for
education of staff members as well as
of citizens concerning the function of
voluntecrs in our programs—for, with-
out careful interpretation, unfortunate
misunderstandings too often arise.

It is important to point out that vol-
untecrs supplemcnt and strengthen pro-
fessional staff, but arc not to be used
to “replace” it. Techniques of success-
ful cooperation between the two groups
should be worked out with care, and the
relation of each to the over-all objec-
tives of the program made clear to all.
Building up a mutual appreciation and
confidence can double a year’s accom-

NOVEMBER 1958

plishlnents and add valuable rapport.

The mature professional worker gen-
uinely appreciates the sincere helper,
but the volunteer must also be readyand
able to accept responsibility, so that he
can be depended upon, rain or shine, to
carry on in his appointed role. The
Post lists, among other requirments for
the successful volunteer: self-discip-
line. “The discipline to serve reliably,
dependably, willingly, for either four
hours a week or forty.” Such service,
when properly valued, goes a long way

‘toward affording great satisfaction to
the person giving it.

The director of the Community
Council of Greater New York states,
“Everyone who helps somehow adds a
new dimension to life. To assist people
in a friendly understanding way is to
do a great service—and the rewarding
personal eXperience is simply enor-
mous. PeOple like to feel needed.”

W-hoop La! I

The hula hoop which rolled in and
took over last summer and fall has not
only brought fun to swayng millions
of kiddies, but woe to many of their
elders who try to do likewise. The
secret is that young bones are soft and
pliable; adult bones are not. But, in
the face of this strange craze and too
easy appearing exercise, adults are apt
to forget this truth and, as a result,
become casualties.

Recently, Frederick Otllnian, col-
umnist for the New York World Tele-
gram and Sun, went to an eminent
\Vashington, D. C. osteopath for a crick
in his back. He writes, “He looked at
me accusingly and said ‘Hula hoops.’
This I bitterly denied . . . He said that
all day long hula-hoop victims creep,
crawl, and limp to his atelier . .

relief from their suffering.
“Grown men and women, he said,

. for

 

*A new children’s reference work, edited
by Herbert S. Zim, Spencer Press, Chicago.
Distributed by Sears, Roebuck and Company.

should know better than to tangle with
the hula h00p. They’re twirling the
hoops with their hips and coming down
with popping vertebrae, slipping sac-
roiliacs, and fibrosing muscle fibers.”
. Let’s leave this activity to the chil-
dren. This flash best-seller in the toy
business, a plastic h00p usually about
three feet in diameter, was patterned in
Australia, so we are told. It has blazed
its way across America and Canada
and, if we are to believe reports, is now
proceeding relentlessly toward Eng-
land, the Continent, and Japan. New
variations are already being introduced
here.

Do Children Read Outside School?

Attention is again called to children’s
reading by the widespread observancc
of National Children’s Book Week each
November. This year it is being cele-
brated across the country November
2—8. Of interest in line with this is a
recent nationwide check of women’s
page editors, on the reading habits and
attitudes of children, conducted by the
editors of Our Wonderful World.*
These editors were chosen as being per-
haps in closer touch with the problems
and interests of their readers than most.
Asked, “Do children do sufficient out-
side reading?” some ninety-five per
cent of the editors answered, “no.” In
answer to the question: “Does the
proper kind of outside reading help a
child prepare for his future?” they
were even more emphatic with ninety-
eight per cent voting, “yes.” In answer
to the question:.“Does the prOper type
of outside reading help a child in school
work?” again ninety-eight per cent
voted, “yes.”

This survey underscores a recent
study by the American Library Asso-
ciation which focused attention on the
need for better school libraries. There
are “over 6,000,000 children in the
United States for whom no book stock
at all is reported,” ALA stated.

Television was mentioned by some of
the editors as partly responsible for lack
of reading; one editor said, “TV takes
too much time, leaves children without
reading habits.”

“What children' need today is an in-
satiable curiosity . . .” Surely the latter
can be stimulated—through recreation?

303

Lel us help our children 10 be young for
yet a lillle while . . . then lo realize their

dreams. (Photo by Wes Tafl, 15, won
1956 High School Pholographic award.)

DO
TEEN
CENTERS

ANSWER
TEEN I
PROBLEMS? 1/

TEEN CENTERS are not new, but periodically it is well to
re-emphasize the importance of complete community
understanding and backing, and the use of professionally
trained and understanding adult leadership for such a cen-
ter. The teen-ager of today is perhaps growing up a little
too fast. As Boonton Herndon pointed out in an article in
This W eels,1 “In many American cities today, eleven-year-
old girls wouldn’t dream of going to school without lipstick.
And in some communities—perhaps yours——-b0ys and girls
begin going steady in the seventh grade. In others thirteen-
year-old girls go out alone on dates with boys in cars. . . .
Somewhere in this process, normal growing up and normal
education are being lost in the shuflle.” In other words, the
teen-agers’ social time schedule has so accelerated that there
is no time for childhood fun. And, too, they often end up
married too early—and unhappily.

In some communities, the young people themselves are
adopting codes of conduct to remedy this,2 while in others
both public and private recreation agencies or groups of
alarmed parents plan special programs and activities for.
them. In fact, there is an attempt in many places to eiIect a
“slow-down” of too sophisticated activities, in an attempt
to keep the children young a little longer.

An interesting question for recreation leaders, parents,
and others, therefore, is what part can or do teen centers

' "Don‘t Let Them Grow Up Too Fast!” January 26, 1958.

3 Sec “Teen-Agcrs Adapt Conduct Guide,” RECREATION, May 1958,
p. 171), and "(lode for Chaperones,” September 1958, p. 246.

301

play in this picture? There are hundreds across the coun-
try, and certainly they expose young people to a wide vari-

ety of wholesome activities and constructive projects. The
following typify a few of .these.

Stevens Point, Wisconsin

A year-round center was successfully established in
Stevens Point, Wisconsin, in 1955, after the failure of a
“Playdium” in a church basement and the closing of the
“Sugar Bowl,” a hangout near the public high school, be-
cause of lack of funds and adequate adult supervision.

A very active Stevens Point Youth Council was behind
the vigorous campaign, which received fullest city c00per-
ation. The city recreation department gained the use of
an old, recently vacated armory, and the Mayor’s Citizens’
Committee on Youth stepped in to help develop it.

The youth council took part in all phases of the opera-
tion—fund raising, setting up rules to govern the center,
distribution of questionnaires for information on the type
of programs desired, cleaning and painting, selling of mem-

. bership cards to high-school students.

Other important steps:

1. The city council approved the recommendation of
the Mayor’s Citizens’ Committee and the recreation council.

2. A campaign was launched to obtain five thousand dol-
lars for building repair. This amount was raised within
two weeks through public subscription—a grand response.

RECREATION

 

—

 

Youthful aetivities intrigue this age group as much as evening
gowns and driving to dances. These young sllutterbugs are

active members of camera elub in Long Beneh, California.

3. A youth governing board was established, composed of
one representative from each class of the three high schools
and two adult advisors.

The center opened with a Christmas dance on December
21, 1955, with a group of over one thousand high-school
youngsters attending. Now, after two years’ operation, at-
tendance is greater than ever. Facilities and cash donations
continue to come in, and public acceptance is at an all-
time high. Operating funds are now included in the recre-
ation department budget. Building maintenance and super-
vision are the two main expenses.

The youth council included the following statement in the
recreation department’s 1956 annual report:

During the past two years the members have had two
goals in mind; to provide interesting and wholesome ac-
tivities for the young people of our city, and to assist in
worthy community projects. We have —-—

1. Been ranked, by Parents’ Magazine, as one of the top
ten youth groups in the country, receiving a one-hundred-
dollar award, for helping promote youth activities.

2. Helped provide regular entertainment at the recrea-
tion center, on Wednesdays.

3. Held a carnival and dance to raise money for tele-
vision set and antenna, netting eighty dollars.

4. Held a penny drive for United Nations International
Children’s Emergency Fund, Thanksgiving Eve, and raised
six hundred and fifty dollars in four hours.

5. Achieved a current membership of approximately
seven hundred and fifty boys and girls—good manpower.

NOVEMBER 1958

In many communities across the
land, thriving teen centers provide

wholesome, supervised activities .

.i

 

Puppet making and puppet plays are one of the many inter-
ests offered. Above, teen-agers in San Diego, California,
show how really absorbing this type of activity can beeome.

* 11' i *

Among items that should not be overlooked if a teen-age
center is to be successful are: the assistance of the youth
of the community in its establishment and government, so
they will feel it is theirs, will work for its continued oper-
ation, and will become a part of the program; and paid
adult supervision. Its cost may be high, but its benefits are
higher.—-CURTIS L. TAYLOR, Recreation Director, Stevens
Point, Wisconsin.

Evansville, Indiana

The old C. 8: E. I. railroad station in Evansville, Indi-
ana, would never know itself in its new guise, which,has
evolved during the last ten years. After World War II and
U50 tenancy, the teen-agers found a new home there. Now,
as the Evansville Community Center, it serves the entire
city of approximately 150,000 people. It is not a neigh-
borhood center concerned solely with the underprivileged,
but serves all financial levels. Volunteer help is given on
Wednesday and Friday nights, when you can barely make
your way through the crowd.

The center is very large, with high ceilings and marble
columns. Its three floors have plenty of rooms for both
adult and teen-age meetings and classes.

Approximately fifty clubs in the center, with girls’ clubs
predominating, put on dances, swim parties, banquets, and
fund-raising campaigns through shared planning. The
fund-raising function performed by these is an important
asset to the city. Recently, twenty girls’ clubs campaigned

305

on busy main streets, collecting funds for muscular
dystrophy.

Another teen-age service is that of “adOpting” orphans,
for whom they buy birthday and Christmas gifts, and whom,
at certain times, they entertain with special trips. Food
baskets for the needy are gathered at the annual Thanks-
giving Eve party, where guests contribute canned goods in
order to attend. Every Christmas the members of the com-
munity center go on their annual caroling eXpedition to
various hospitals, old folks” homes, and similar places; and
the student advisory council sponsors a Christmas tree sale.

The clubs do many things to raise money for activities,
too. For example, subdeh groups have had car washes to
finance state park trips, paper sales to pay for trips and
projects. Proceeds from last year’s paper sale were used to
cut the bill for new chandeliers.

To become a member a high school student must submit
written permission to the director and then buy an annual
membership card, for a dollar. This can be renewed if the
owner has not graduated from high school. Installment
paying is used by many. '

The center also offers a recreation scholarship worth two
thousand dollars, awarded to a high-school graduate with
a high scholastic average and a strong interest in recrea-
tion. This student must major in recreation in college and

spend two summers working at the ccnter.——KRISS JOHNSON,
Evansville, Indiana.

Tulsa, Oklahoma

Teen Town is a youth organization in the recreation cen-
ter at Lincoln Park, in Tulsa, Oklahoma. Its activities are
planned, governed, and financed by community young peo-
ple. “Teen Town,” organized in 1949, is held regularly on
Friday nights and on Tuesday nights in summer. It is staff-
ed by a woman director and three program specialists; it
does not have any supervisory volunteer leadership.

Their special events have included: the annual picnic;
party for the graduating seniors; after junior and senior
prom party; jitter bug contest; Western dress dance;
Christmas party; Easter egg hunt; elaborate dinner party
for the officers of Teen Town; party for the basketball and
football players; Halloween party; celebration of Teen
Town’s anniversary. Average attendance at each is two
hundred and fifty.

Every four years Teen Town awards one of its members
in good standing a four-year college scholarship based on
need, scholastic ability, and good citizenship. Once a year,
five former Teen Town members attending college are sent
boxes of canned food. In addition, the organization gives
one-tenth of its earnings to a local church for a period of
six months. After this period of time another local church
is selected. It also sponsors three teen-age clubs, thus giv-
ing young people. an opportunity to be grouped according
to high-school classification, to learn parliamentary pro-
cedure, conduct meetings pr0perly, to invite guests and
have parties they could not otherwise have because of their
economic position.

How Teen Town’s money is Spent—Initially, the organiza-

306

tion’s membership fee was fifty cents a month for each mem-
ber, but necessary supervision was inadequate so the plan
had to be abandoned. Today, each member, except officers,
pays twenty-five cents. The money is used to support the
recreation program, and has purchased new records, new
furniture, new public-address system, a new air-condition-
ing unit, and kitchen equipment, to date. It also provides
for all the extra activities, including the scholarship. Teen
Town may rent its music for a nominal fee to other groups.
There are other income sources—selling gum, soft drinks,
old newspapers and magazines, and the use of the check-
room.

The most important Teen Town aims are educating the
youth and community about recreation and the use of the
parks, stimulating provision of the recreation center facili-
ties, and education as to how to use the centers, teaching
boys and girls to plan, conduct meetings properly, manage
organization finances successfully, and to get along with

others while doing all this—ROBERT F AIRCHILD, Director
of Teen Town, Inc.

Pleasantville, New York

Teen-agers in Pleasantville, New York have been busily
promoting their own stock issue to get their own center
under way this fall. Except for two brief unsuccessful pro-
grams several years ago, the community’s teen-agers have
had no gathering place of their own. As a result, the village
plaza became the headquarters for a noisy group while
others loitered on street corners. After a flurry of bad-boy
pranks and some real delinquency cases were reported 10-
cally, the teen-agers had no difficulty in selling their yellow
certificates at a dollar a piece. The youngsters estimated
they needed a total of $2,500. The village board has offered
them the t0p floor of the Village Office Building for a teen
center.

At the beginning, the teen center will he open Friday
evenings for junior-high students and Saturday evening
for high-school boys and girls. The new center will have
a student board of directors and a paid adult director. An
adult board will also work with the teen-agers.

Ridgefield, Connecticut

Thirty-five members of the Ridgefield, Connecticut,
Teen-Age Canteen helped celebrate the town’s two-hundred-
and-fiftieth anniversary this summer by cleaning up the
beer cans that have littered Faiifield County roadsides.
The youngsters toured the main highways and back roads
in pick-up trucks loaned for the occasion by merchants and
parents. The trucks carried placards proclaiming, “Ridge-
field Teen-Age Canteen Beer Can Brigade.”

The canteen was started four years ago and occupies

. quarters in the Ridgefield Community Center.8 After vari-_

ous acts of vandalism had occurred at the canteen this sum-
IIICI‘, the teen-age governing board adopted a new policy
including fines for swearing, expelling permanently anyone
arriving with liquor on his breath, and asking members
wearing improper attire to leave for the night. #

3See “An Old House Comes to Life,” RECREATION, November
1955, p. 410.

RECREATION

 

Especially designed for senior citizens,

this activity center

fulfills the desire to belong, to be useful.

LITTLE HOUSE—
BIG DIVIDEND

rector meets with both the council and
the general business meeting and
serves as a liaison between the center
and the board of directors of the Penin-
sula Volunteers. General over-all pol-
icy is determined by the Little House
board of the Peninsula Volunteers.

The' advisory board, composed of
prominent educators, businessmen, doc-
tors, lawyers, and psychiatrists, meets
quarterly with the Peninsula Volunteers
board and the director. Additional
meetings are called when need arises.
Stanford University has cooperated
with the group since Little House was
established. The Peninsula Volunteers
held a workshop on aging, in conjunc-
tion with the university in 1951, and a
survey on educational needs of the older
person was made through the univer-
sity department of education.

The center is open six nights and
seven days each week. The personnel
consists of a director, an assistant di-
rector, and a secretary; thirty-one
teachers help with the program, most of
them on a volunteer basis. '

The weekly afternoon program at
Little House is varied and stimulating:
ballet, readings, book and play reviews,
movies, lectures, travel talks, concerts,
and current events forums are featured.
Outside guests or talented Little House
members present the programs. There
are field trips to places of interest, also
three five-day excursions to national
parks, picnics to which other senior
centers are asked as guests. Discussion
groups and current event series have
been instrumental in developing group
leadership. These are lunches, dinners,
card parties, monthly birthday parties,

NOVEMBER 1958

special seasonal parties, and get-ac-
quainted suppers for new members.

Members’ handcrafts are sold at a
bazaar three times yearly. The art,
craft and hobby show is an eagerly
awaited annual event. Bake sales, lunch-
eons, and special dinners are held as
money-raising projects.

Little House members make many
valuable contributions to the commu-
nity. Among these are:

Veterans Administration Hospital: As-
sisting with crafts, sewing and knitting,
volunteers for library and statistical
work, entertaining patients at Little
House programs.

Children’s Health Council: Equipment
for handicapped children, and standing
tables for polio patients.

Children’s Home Society: Layettes,
knitted articles.

Hillcrest Juvenile Horne: Sewing en-
tertainment.

San Mateo County Public Health Clinic:
Exhibits of crafts, volunteers to encour-
age patients toward outside interests.
Stanford Speech and Hearing Clinic:
Scrapbooks, duplicate cards, sewing,
doll‘ dresses, making equipment and
furniture, and specially designed tables
and small lettered blocks.

American Red Cross: Various volun-
teer services.

United Crusade: Solicitation, clerical
work.

American Women’s Voluntary Service:
Toys for retarded children.

San Mateo County Adoption Center:
Layettes, repairing furniture.

Other activities include being “sub-
stitute” grandparents for emotionally
disturbed children; setting up Santa

Claus Land in Menlo Park and playing
the role of Santa Claus during the
Christmas shopping season; collecting
and sorting clothes for flood relief vic-
tims in the area; and participation in
other community activities such as a
float in Fourth of July parade, a booth
at San Mateo County Fair and Fiesta,
Palo Alto Community Fair, Menlo Park
Plaza Days, and so on.

Classes ‘

Classes are offered in: woodworking,
in the completely equipped shop where
articles are made for the center, for
community agencies and for the indi-
vidual; furniture making and refinish-
ing; drama; lamp-shade making; cor-
sage making—a monthly project is
making corsages for members celebrat-
ing birthdays; bazaar crafts; dress-
costume leather-
craft—instruction in all types of leather
work; knitting and sewing; and also

making ; making ;

weaving and rug making.

Other classes include painting—both
Watercolor and oils; conversational
Spanish, French and German; lapidary
——members cut and polish stones as well
as make jewelry; party favors; millin-
ery; ceramics—making green ware,
glazing and painting pottery and porce-
lain; flower arrangement; choral sing-
ing; bazaar sewing; metalcraft and
enameling; bird lore; horticulture;
gardening—a lath house and cutting
garden, plus garden talks; gift wrap-
ping; candlemaking; charm course——
make-up hints, fashions and hair styles;
food and nutrition; home economics;
checkers, chess, bridge and canasta;
square and folk dancing. #

309

 

 
 
 

A REPORTER’S NOTEBOOK

 

Injury Ruling Reversed

The highest court of New York State
has now ruled on a home owner’s liabil-
ity to a child invited to play on his
property. The case in point concerns
a boy injured tripping over a doorst0p
near a garage while playing basketball
in his friend’s backyard. The original
verdict, awarded against the home
owner by the trial court and affirmed by
the Appellate Division, was carried to
the Court of Appeals, where it was re-
versed.

Judge Burke, writing for the court,
restated the ruling that a child, like any
other social guest, “must take the
premises as he finds them and is entitled
to no greater protection than the mem-
bers of the family.” The injured boy
had previously played on this impro-
vised basketball court, without mishap,
despite the protruding doorst0p, which
was in plain view.

He further stated: “Liability does
not arise unless the condition which
caused the injury is_‘pregnant with the
greatest danger to life and limb, or is
a deceptive trap to the unwary, as peri-
lens as an explosive bomb, highly in-
flammable material, a spring gun or
kindred devices.’ ” Court of Appeals,
not yet reported.

Notes From All Over
Citation. The Charles E. Goodwin

Community Center, Claremont, New
Hampshire, has been awarded the an-
nu al Community Service Citation, given
by the Veterans of Foreign Wars. The
award was presented to Anthony Zotto,
director of the center, and reads in
part: “As evidence of sincere apprecia-
tion of its outstanding community serv-
ice support and achievements.”
Election. Charles J. Reitz has been
elected the new chairman of the Arizona

310

State Parks Board. When the Arizona
State Legislature created the State
Parks Board in March, 1957, one of the
provisos of the act was that one of the
appointive members should be profes-
sionally engaged in general recreation
work. Governor Ernest McFarland se-
lected Mr. Reitz on this basis. An active
associate member of the NRA, he is the
current superintendent of the recreation
and park department in Yuma, Arizona.

Grants for Youth Work. The first
two recipients of the Columbus [Indi-
ana] Foundation for Youth education
and training council scholarships, for
students planning to enter the field of
youth work, are attending Indiana Uni-
versity to major in recreation. The
winners, Carlin Lucas and Norma
Small, were awarded seven hundred
and three hundred dollars respectively.

Both of them have been very active in

 

youth work and both were also in the
top third of their high school graduat-
ing class.

The grant was established to encour-
age interest in full-time youth work
among students of ability. The awards
are renewable during all four under-
graduate years, provided the students
maintain a record keeping them in the
top third of their class.

Thirty Years of "Service. The St.
Francis Hotel, in San Francisco, was the
scene October 20, of a large luncheon
honoring Raymond Kimbell, general
manager of the recreation and park de-
partment, and James Lang, superin-
tendent of recreation for the city and
county of San Francisco, on the occa-
sion of their completion of a long and
dedicated service to the city and the
department.

Unique Freedom of Design

The feature presentation in the July
edition of Progressive Architecture was
completely devoted to “Buildings for
Recreation.” Types included were build-
ings for municipal, federal, private, fra-
ternal, military, and educational needs,
of such variousness as a bathhouse to
an oflicers’ club and from a sports sta-
dium to a community music hall. The
nature of recreation and its needs leads
to the fortunate architectural circum-
stance that, according to the magazine,
“design of buildings for recreation is

Ahove are the striking bathing and picnicking facilities at Nags Head,
North Carolina. The most dramatie dcsign element is the use of canti-
levered fins allowing wind passage but preventing sun passage. Structure
was designed for the Cape Hatteras National Seashore Recreation Area
by the National Park Scrvice Division of Design and Construction.

RECREATION

 

Above right is the patio, with pool and fountain, bordering cocktail
lounge of the new ofliccrs’ club at Andrews Air Force Base in Washing-
ton, D.C. Architect: Charles M. Goodman Associates; interiors, Knoll
Planning Unit. Knoll Associates furniture is visible through the windows
giving off patio of ultramodern facility. Note light directed on patio.

The new major league (above left) stadium in Bloomington, Minn., is an-
other finc example of “unfettered” design. Exterior walls of the stadium
—eventually to scat 68,000 spectators—are of glazed bricks in panels of
brown, turquoise, red, orange, yellow, and blue. Seats are enameled in
blocks of blue, bluc-grcen, and green. Designed by Thorshov & Cerny.

relatively unfettered by traditional con-
siderations.” In other words, the archi-
tect is presented with the chance to use
his imagination and technological
knowledge to the utmost, to produce a
beautiful and unusual building. See ac-
companying photographs as they ap-
peared in July Progressive Architec~
tare. '
Useful Materials

The Fort Lauderdale, Florida, De-

partment of Parks and Recreation has
prepared and distributed to its 258 cm-
ployees two booklets discussing better
methods of dealing with their public.
They are entitled: M ay I Help You, Sir?
and It Pays to Sell Service.

The first points up the value of cour-
tesy, particularly; as it relates to recre-
ation personnel, who are, after all, as
is emphasized by these booklets, public
employces. The public therefore has a
right to expect service plus courtesy
from the city employees who are paid
with its tax dollars. The remainder
deals with various courteous ways to
handle different situations as they arise.
Thc second is on the nced for and ad-
vantages of good public relations on the
part of any agency, and how to achieve
them. More information about either of
these booklets may be obtained by writ-
ing Temple R. Jarrell, dircctor of parks
and recreation, Fort Lauderdale.

ABS Elections

Thc American Recreation Society
elected new officers reccntly. They are:
Charles B. Cranford, deputy commis-

NOVEMBER 1958

recreation, Philadelphia,
president; Jesse A. Reynolds, depart-
ment of recreation and parks, Rich-
mond, Virginia, president-elect; Oka T.
Hester, director of parks and recrea-
tion department, Greensboro, North

sioner of

Carolina, first vice-president; William
Frederickson, Jr., superintendent of
recreation, Los Angeles department of
recreation and parks, second vice-presi-
dent; Dr. Edith Ball, recreation cur-
riculum advisor, New York University,
secretary; Stewart G. Case, extension
recreationist, Colorado State Univer-
sity, treasurer.

In Memoriam

 

0 With the death of Myra Townsend
Edgerton, on September fifth of this
year, the National Recreation Associa-
tion lost an old and loyal friend. She
liked to recall the day in 1906 when
someone asked her for a dollar for the
newly organized Playground Associa-
tion of America; she was in sympathy
with its objectives; and she had a dollar.
She thus became one of the first con-
tributors to what has become the NRA.

Miss Edgerton’s ties with thc Asso-
ciation went far beyond the member-
ship she kept up throughout her life.
She and the late Howard Braucher,
president of NRA, first met as under-
graduates at Cornell. Years later the
Brauchcr family and many members of
the NRA staff were frequent visitors at

Sabine Farm, the tree-shaded old house
in Bethpage, Long Island, where she
lived during much of her thirty-seven-
year career as a history teacher at
Jamaica High School.

Here, at this same farm, she raised
pedigreed airedales; kept up a volumin-
ous correspondence; cultivated her
garden; sewed for a variety of organi-
zations; pursued her gcnealogical re-
search; read in the many fields that
interested her; and —— probably her
favorite recreation —— entertained her
ever-widening circle of friends.

She had an unflagging interest in
young pe0ple —— her own nieces and
nephews among them —— and guided
many of them in their choice of careers,

some right onto the NRA staff. She
would be happy to know that her con-

'tribution to the recreation movement

will be maintained in the Myra Town-
send Edgerton Memorial Fund, estab-
lished by her family and friends. This
fund will become a part of the endow-
ment fund of the National Recreation
Association — indeed a fitting memor-
ial to one of our most loyal supporters.

0 A. Thornton Bishop, president of the
Bergen County [New Jersey] Park
Commission, executive editor of publi-
cations for the Metropolitan Life Insur-
ance Company, author and art teacher,
died on October 2, at the age of sixty-
one.
Mr. Bishop had been a member of
the park commission since 1946 and
president since 1950. Previously he had
been director of the Teaneck [New Jer-
sey] Planning Board and a member of
the Teaneck Township Council. He
taught painting and published a number
of books, including Renaissance Ar-
chitecture and Composition and Ren-
dering.

0 Captain William Bowie, who prob-
ably did as much for recreation in
Canada as anyone else, in the course of
two generations, died reccntly at the
age of sixty-nine, ending thirty-three
years service with the Parks and Play-
ground Association. He had been one
of Montreal’s prime crusaders for better
public health through recreation. Cap-
tain Bowie used to come to National
Recreation Congresses year after year,
long before Canada had a recreation
organization of any kind. #

311

 

EVERYTHING about Christmas should
be exactly right—the food deli-
cious, the tree radiant, the h o u s e

sparkling clean and fragrant with
greens, and the table a reflection of
good taste.

Christmas is made 11p of so many
good things—music, laughter, gener-
osity, gaiety, beauty, good-will-toward-
men—that go into making the holidays
merry ones. Not the least of these are
the decorations. Below is a charming
project to add Christmas color to your
home or center.

Enter the Angels

Angels belong everywhere at Christ-
mas time. Scatter them throughout the
house, group them on your mantle-
piece or under the tree, hang them on
the tree. They are quite simple to make,

312

Angtl muatt for!
@hriatmaal

Angels we have heard on high,
Sweetly singing o’er the plains:
And the mountains in reply

Echoing their joyous strains.—

From the ancient Latin hymn, GLORIA
1N EXCELSIS DEO.

and a variety of materials can bc used
to construct them.

For the table, however, clothe them
in white, and design them with Christ-
mas music in mind. Sprinklc a heavenly
blue table cover1 with a pathway of
silver stars. (Use white tapers, white
candle holders, and silver ribbon to
emphasize celestial background.) In
this case your angel, or angels, should
be white-robed, with golden halo.
Instructions. You will need white,
peach, and yellow crepe paper; N o. 15
wire; N o. 9 and spool wire; tissue; cel-
lophane; gold and white mat stock;
Scotch tape; No. 2 gold stars; 1/2 -inch
white and 1/2-inch gold ribbon; four
No. 00 paper fasteners; paste; water
colors; rouge.

Head. Crush tissue to form a ball 3 by
2% inches. Cut a strip of crepe paper
5 inches wide across the fold. Stretch
strip twice around tissue ball, cut off
surplus and paste seam (Fig. A). Tie
ball at t0p with spool wire and paste
surplus crepe paper down to head.
Leavc bottom end free to attach to
body.

Body. Cut a half circle, 71/2 inches in
radius, from white mat stock. R011 to
make a cone 5% inches at the base.
Fasten seam with paper fasteners (Fig.
B). Cut three 5-inch lengths of N o. 15
wire. Scotch tape, them to cone with
 inches extending beyond point
(Fig. C). Force wires into head for 1
inch and tie head in place under chin
with spool wire (Fig. D).

 

1 From Here’s an Idea, Dennison Manufacn
turing Company, Framingham, Massachusetts.

Arms. Pad a 13-inch length of No. 15
wire with tissue to a thickness of 
inch. Cover padding by winding arm
with a 1/;-inch wide strip of peach crepe
paper, cut across the fold (Fig. E).
Fasten arms to body 11/2 inches below
head with spool wire. Pad body with
tissue to give desired shape (Fig. F).
Wind padded section with strip of peach
crepe paper to give a smooth surface.

Features. Paint face with water colors
and rouge cheeks.

Hair. Cut two 1/g-inch wide strips of
yellow crepe paper across grain. Twist
each to form a cord. Paste strands over
hairline (Fig. G). Braid two doublc
strips of twist and a strand of gold rib-
bon to form a coronet. Paste coronet
braid around hairline.

Robe. Sixteen-inch circle of white crepe
paper, Spangled with gold stars. Cut to
center as shown (Fig. H). Fasten
around waist and paste seam up back.
Stretch white crepe paper over upper
section of doll for blouse. Sleeves. Four
inches wide, live inches long. Cut from
white crepe paper and shape as in Fig.
J. Border sleeves with gold stars and
paste in place on doll. Outer Robe. Cut
from clear cellophane as in Fig K.
Reinforce at points indicated on dia-
gram with Scotch tape. Slip over head
and fasten at waist with girdle, made
by braiding white and gold ribbon to-
gether.

Halo. Bend No. 9 wire to form a 21/2-

inch hoop. Wind with gold ribbon.
Stick gold stars around edge.

Wings. Cut from white mat stock and
pin in place.
Violin. Cut two from gold mat stock.
Draw lines, indicated in Fig. L on t0p,
cut out with a knitting needle. String
with uncovered wire. Scotch tape the
two cut-outs together with a 1/_3-inch
wide strip of gold mat stock between.
Place the golden violin under your
angel’s chin and in her left hand. Place

bow of stiff wire, in right.

RECREATION

 

Another, simpler way to make angels,
singing this time, is to use inverted

cone-shaped cups, such as are found at
a soda fountain, as a base for the full
skirt. Cut out head, arms, and shoulders
of heavy white paper, all in one piece,
and paint (as in the sketch). Cut each
hair strip and curl over the edge of a
dull knife or scissors blade. Make a
half-inch slit in the tip of the cone and
insert the top of the angel in this. Cover
the cone with a pleated or gathered strip
of foil, crepe, or tissue paper, and tie or
paste in place. For the music, cut an
oblong piece of paper, fold through the
center, and draw musical staffs and
notes. Paste one of the angel’s hands to
each side of the music book to hold in
place., Wings of stiff white paper, gold
or silver foil can be pasted to the back
of the angel.

Eggheads2

Angels with eggshell heads are good
fun, too. Make a small pinhole at each
end of the egg with a pin and empty
egg. Do this by holding over a bowl
and blowing hard. The large end of the
egg will be the top.

Insert a piece of small copper wire
about 3% inches long through the hole
in the bottom of the eggshell and up
through the hole in the top so it extends
above the top about 3/3 inch. Bend this

 

5|From Holiday Craft and Fun, by Joseph
Leeming, J. B. Lippincott. $2.85.

NOVEMBER 1958

end of the wire down against the shell
and fasten it with a small piece of Scotch

angel’s dress and arms of white paper,
and wings of silver paper. Make her a
colored kerchief.

Glue the pieces together, then paint
the eye, nose, and mouth with water
colors or tempera. Glue on hair of
brown or yellow yarn. Attach the head
to the dress by inserting the wire of the
head into the hole in the top of the
dress. Fasten the wire to the inside of
the front of the dress with Scotch tape.

Bring the arms forward. Put glue on
the inside of the hands; then put a small
2-inch birthday candle (or sheet music)
between the hands and glue in place.

Books to Help with Christmas

Ideas for Christmas, (from Today’s
Woman), Arco Publishing Company,
480 Lexington Avenue, New York 17.
$2.00.

Ideas for Christmas, $2.00; Decorating
for Joyful Occasions, by Marjorie W.
Young, 31.50; How to Make Paper
Flowers and Party Decorations, by
Natalie Morgan, $2.98; Make Your
Own Merry Christmas, by Anne Werts-
ner, $2.50; Creating with Paper, by
Pauline Johnson, $6.00; Book of Arts
and Crafts (straw angel as made in
Sweden), by Marguerite lckis and Reba
Selden Fish, $5.00; Papier-Mache, by
Lillian Johnson, $3.95.

Foil Pie Plates 3

 

On a foil pie plate, mark off six sec-
tions as in Figure X. (The height of
angel will be approximately equal to
the diameter of the pie plate, so choose
whatever size you wish.)

Cut along all lines with scissors. Cut
out the two small V-shaped sections at
the top. Then draw in the head on
middle part, and cut out. Semicircle at
the bottom forms the skirt, the two other
parts make the wings.

Bend lower section backward to form
skirt. Make slits in top of head, curl
forward for hair. Cut apron and crown
from colored foil; curl top of apron
forming a rufiie. Paste crown to head.

Glue apron on “skirt; paste colored
sequins onto head for facial features.
For variety, curl a small piece of metal
pan cleanser or yarn for hair; cut apron
from a paper doily or from colored lace
ribbon. Make the cap of paper lace if
you prefer.

 

'From Better Homes & Gardens 1956

Christmas Ideas. Copyright 1956. Meredith
Publishing Co., Des Moines, Iowa.

313

 

 

  

:553::.;.i_,
w 45‘

 

Nothing ean surpass violent action for sheer power of attraction. Here, photographer knew how to use high-speed

The recreation story inelutles interesting and arresting sea-
sonal activities. This photograph presents the drama of ont-
door fun in winter and the beauty in the silent whiteness of
heavy snow. W'e must always think in terms of general appeal.

314

p

   
   

, .<  r “15".. Inn... .vc. I¢.n\.—-A-.1\'.\3w--¥- n W. - , . “

equipment.

 

This natural shot of a thirsty little boy illustrates the right
moment to snap a human-interest scene. One of the necessary
skills of the successful photojonrnalist is catching life un-
aware. Another important aspeet is obvious: choice of subject.

RECREATION

 

 

mbolisni is all important quality for editorial purposes. This )ullllg man gazing into the distance represents hopes of youth.

  

y the Editors of Look

ANY LABELS have been attached to our time. but it can
accurately be called the visual era—of motion pic-
res, television, and photojournalism. Most people are in-
- cnccd daily by the visual image in what they think. say,
1d do. Gardner Cowles, editor of Look Magazine, said in
1 address* before the National Press Photographers As-
ciation:
“In America, we are already living in a picture world.
he peOple who are growing up have been brought up in
very different visual world from that of their parents.
hey have been exposed in school to new visual teaching
chniques; they have seen movies introduce the three-
‘1nensional illusion and the giant movie screen; and the
cture magazines and television have conditioned them to
pect a visual treatment of almost any subject.”
All too often, however, photographs prepared for public-
lations distribution sadly lack sharp editorial impact.

* Washington, D. C., March 28, 1957.

OVEMBER 1958

 

ELL YUR STORY
1TH PICTURES

How to what, (liret't and Plan. photographs that have

editorial I'm-pat t. H'hat applies

to school pirtmes applies as well to retreation photographs.

Many of the “stock shots” submitted to newspapers and
magazines end up in editors, wastebaskets. In short, the
practice of photo reportage on the local or low-budget level
has not kept pace with . . . photographic technology.
With this in mind, let us consider the photographic cov-
erage of the school [and recreation] scene, where the deli-
cate climate of public opinion has so much to do with the
success or failure of the community educational system.
According to Mr. Cowles: “Good pictures don't just hap-
pen. The good photographer knows. from all he has read,
all he has seen, all the techniques he has mastered, to sense
the exact moment to take the picture. He can sense the his-
toric, meaningful situation, and he is always prepared for
it. He has to be well read; he has to understand human
nature; he has to be able to cope with unexpected situations;

 

—-——-— —1—‘.-—

Reprinted, with permission, from, School Photojournalism
by the Editors of Look, published by the National School
Public Relations Association, Washington 6, D. C.

 

315

and to use his own best judgment as to what sequence of
shots is newsworthy, original, or photogenic. He has to
be selective, and yet not miss anything big.”

What Makes Good Pictures?

Any creative work that vividly communicates human
emotion is dependent on a number of small things which
happily combine to produce certain qualities. This is true
of a dramatic work, a short story, a painting. It is also
certainly true of a storytelling photograph, which will make
the reader stop, look—and then look again.

We require that the camera be selective. It must catch
a fleeting facial expression that provides a rare insight into
the complex human personality. It must stop the drama
of human activities at the instant of highest emotion, con-

vey in one scene an attitude expressive of a whole pe0ple
or way of life.

The School Scene

First of all, who is best equipped to work this camera
magic? You probably can’t count on the staff photographer
of the local paper, for his time must generally be limited
to the biggest events of the school year. But regular photo
coverage can be assigned to a student or staff member who
has a continuing, direct, personal interest in school affairs.
Few high schools [and recreation centers] are without a
camera class or club. . . . Typical school subjects can be
illustrated forcefully with photographs. While mathematics
involves much abstract thinking, we shouldn’t, for instance,
overlook the human side of arithmetic.

On these pages, for example, is a photograph of a small
boy having a drink of water from an al fresco fountain. It
is obvious that the picture was not prearranged in studio-
photograph style. Children do not react well to posing.
They are Splendid photo subjects when caught unaware.

Action and Reaction

The camera is an all-seeing eye that, depending on our
wishes, will record a definitive, detailed view or focus on
the simplest theme. This brings us to the all-important
factor of selection, a key to making successful storytelling
photographs.

Opportunities for human interest photographs arise when
someone reacts—whether it is an athlete to a challenge or
.the youngster to his need for water. i

Help with the Budget

Opponents of an increased budget must be properly ex-
posed to the full facts if they are to be convinced that more
money is warranted rather than extravagant. This infor-
mation is usually published in the local newspaper, Cir per-
haps in a specially prepared brochure or folder. The ver-
bal accounting is often a tiresome tale of woe readers will
glance at hastily. However, striking photographs, com-
bined with the printed word, create a special quality or

The photographs on these pages, which so aptly il-

lustrate our story, are 1958 winners in the Eastman
Kodak National High School Photographic Awards
contest. (See Photo Credits, page 299.)

 

illusion of direct, personal experience. . . .

The School Building: After Hours

After the day’s final bell has rung and the last stud
hurries out of school, the building takes on a whole n
set of purposes. . . . Here, again, is a possible subject i
a picture story or group of pictures that would be welco
by a newspaper’s feature editor [as would be a typical d
in a recreation center]. A roundup of this night life duri
a typical week might include: dancing lessons, proms, Sc
gatherings, Red Cross activities, community plays, ad
education, banquets, and so on. An awareness of the ma
activities that take place will help impress the public w'
the value received from adequate plant facilities.

People doing things out-of-doors are always a valua
source for active and lively pictures. School children p
ticipate in community improvement in endless, novel wa
The alert photographer can easily cover campaigns f
such causes as getting out the vote, better trafiic safe
fire control, improved recreational facilities, or libra
fund-raising; and many other such projects. . . .

[Teen-center or golden-age service projects, for instan

See pages 304 and 308.]

Cropping 3 Photograph

The original negatives of most photographs contain a
traneous matter which can be eliminated in order to
crease impact. Cropping can effect many improveme
Cutting the foreground area from beneath standing figu
will tend to bring them closer to the viewer; convers
leaving great areas of foreground beneath figures can ;
the illusion of more distance or greater height. Often
action may involve just a few persons, with other figures
the composition irrelevant to the main idea.

Portraits of people should have slightly more backgro
area allowed on the side toward which the subject is faci
Crowd scenes can gain the illusion of extending ad infinit
if the rear edge of the crowd doesn’t show.

Captions and Copy

Captions under photographs have a vital function.
caption must be bricf, clear, and to the point. We ex
the reader to scan the picture and caption almost si
taneously. Use active words and avoid stating the obvi
rather add a bit of information that is not immediately
plained by the picture alone.
er’s ability to draw his own conclusion: rarely can a pll
graph communicate completely without a caption. if:

. . . Do not trust in the‘ r

# Have you ordered your copy of the Congress Proceedings yet ($3.50)?

316

RECREA

Right: A fine example of publicizing a eity-wide ob-
servant-e is this sign before the Texas State Capitol.

On left, R. H. Van Arsdale, NRA distriet representa-

tive, with B. Sheffield, Austin recreation director.

_ ATIONAL
' ECREATION
ONTH ——-

Did you have a city-wide committee
-r National Recreation Month last
une? If you did, you reaped better
an average benefits from your ob-
ance. That’s what reports from

ll over the country indicate.

F YOU DIDN’T have a city-wide com-

mittee this year, don’t despair.

art planning now for next June.
Memphis, Tennessee, with a pilot
mmittee of representative citizens,
ider the chairmanship of Frank Ahl-
ren, editor of the Commercial Appeal,
ressed that the leisure-time movement
. a program of and for the entire pub-
c. Business and industry, as well as
1°vice organizations and private rec-
eation groups, were drawn into the
ionth-long series of events. All con-
ibuted and all gained.

Planning Ahead

Other communities that experiment-
d with such committees also had grati-
ying results. Combined with that of
’Iemphis, their experience shows that
ou should -—-—

l. Gain the support of your board
nd a few other key citizens for the idea
f a city-wide observance in June.

OVEMBER 1958

2. Call together representatives {lay
and professional) of religious, civic,
service, health, youth, business, and
other groups. A board member from
your agency or department should pre-
sent the idea to them and suggest ac-
tivities-—— joint and separate. For ex-
ample, Monroeville, Pennsylvania, used
the month as the occasion for a recruit-
ing drive by all agencies seeking more
volunteer workers. The National Rec-
reation Month kit, supplied to all NRA
affiliated groups (and to others on re-
quest) will give many suggestions and
will be ready by March, 1959.

3. If you have not already agreed
informally on a chairman (as was done
in Memphis) the group might nominate
a leading citizen and send a delegation
to request his acceptance.

The group might also set up two sub-
committees—to plan special program
events, and to work out a plan of pro-
motion and publicity. Ask the commu-
nity’s churches and synagogues to set
aside the first Saturday or Sunday in
June as Recreation Sunday or Sabbath,
to inform their congregations of recre-
ation available to the community. The
four special weeks of Recreation Month

 

provide the framework for your plan-
ning. They are designed to help you
show the full scope of recreation.

5. Be sure to make the month the
occasion for honoring citizens who
have aided the development of all rec-
reation -— or special aspects of recrea-
tion —— in your community. If your
agency is an affiliate of the National
Recreation Association, it will have an
opportunity to make nominations for
NRA certificates of appreciation for
outstanding service to recreation.

6. Keep the purpose of National Rec-
reation Month clear—to help more peo-
ple realize the value of recreation and
discover the recreation groups, activi-
ties, and facilities available to them.

President Eisenhower, in his message
to the 40th National Recreation Con-
gress, said, “The healthy use of leisure
time becomes increasingly important to
our living in this demanding age. . . . ”

The wise use of leisure may literally
be the key to our survival. National
Recreation Month, with its street ban-
ners, governors’ proclamations, special
events, and joint planning, is one of the
tools we use to help us bring truly crea-
tive recreation to all the people. #

317

 

Father and son participate in the same class, examine a prob-
lem together. Many fathers missed modeling in their youth.

George Seedhouse

Aiming for championship in the lOlll Annual National Plan.
Show, youngster enters fonr planes, one in each division.

The young Wilbur and Orville Wrights of Cleveland, Ohio.-

take plane building seriously.

 of the 

PIONEER AIRMAN Wilbur Wright would be proud of a

certain recreation program in the Cleveland junior

high school bearing his name. Youngsters, twelve to fifteen,
are enjoying some of the same sort of excitment in conquer.
ing the air that Wilbur and Orville expericnced in 1903, on
Kill Devil Hill at Kitty Hawk. Along with their fathers,
they’re learning to build model airplanes that fly! In the
school auditorium, before the very eyes of the Wright broth-
ers whose portraits adorn the walls, they’re making test
glides and progressing to their first powered flights.

This is one of the most successful programs in our city-
wide community center program. Fathers tell us that some
of the most delightful hours of their lives are those spent
with their sons, puzzling over the construction of a minia-
ture flying machine. It started in 1953, the fiftieth anni-
versary year of the Wright brothers’ first powered flight.
Charles Tracy, aviation editor of The Cleveland Press, sug-
gested wc help celebrate this air-age milestone by conduct-
ing model plane-making classes in some of our community
centers, scattered around the city in some thirty junior and
senior high school buildings, where other recreation activi-
ties are also conducted.

Discussing the plane program with Tracy, who had been
trying for years to organize plane-building classes on a
regular basis, I explained that the big problem was obtain-

 

Ma. SEEDHOUSE is chief of community centers and play-
grounds for the Board of Education, Cleveland, Ohio.

318

ing experienced instructors. Though often started, thejj
usually expired soon for lack of leadership.

“Why don’t you instruct a class yourself?” I asked himl

“Assign lne Wilbur Wright Junior High, and I couldn’l
refuse,” he answered.

Today he is in his fifth year as a model airplane it
structor at Wilbur Wright and has missed only one or twa
classes. They start in mid—October, continue through Aprit
are held every Wednesday from 7:30 to 9:30 P.M.—th
only time that could be found for them. Because of t
after-dark hours, fathers must accompany the boys. Thi
turned out to be one of the nicest features of the program, i
that it brOUght the fathers and sons together.

Among fathers attending this years are several aerona
tical scientists from the local National Advisory Committe
for Aeronautics, Lewis Flight Propulsion Laboratory, wh

  
 
 
  
    
   
  
  
   
   
   

spend their working hours deveIOping new rocket fuel~
making planes safer and faster. They’re catching up on th
modeling phase of aviation—having missed it when the
were youngsters.

Tracy’s classes are informal. He enforces one rule: ever
body must make some kind of plane. What kind isn’t t
important, except that plastic typcs aren’t allowed in tl'.
classroom.

Several big air meets, held annually in Cleveland, pr
vide targets for action. These are the Great Lakes Indoc
Air Meet in thc public auditorium in January and the N.
tional Model Plane Show in Higbee Auditorium in mi(

RECREATI

 

1c of the weekly classes listens to instructor Ed Przyhys.
ys can make model they like best, but make one they must.

arch. Class members are taught to make planes to com-
te in these events. Tracy firmly believes that competition
ds spirit, fun, and purpose to this activity. “One of the
eat attributes of plane making is the keen interest model-

s have for helping a fellow flier get better results from his
aft. They’re eager to share what they’ve learned. Coni-
tition gives them a reason to learn more, share more, help
ch other more,” he says.

A thirteeniyear-old who has never built a flying model in
is life can master enough indoor-model featherweight
rodynamics by January to make a plane that will stay
p two minutes. Another young craftsman who in January
. vcr heard of a British World War I SE-S biplane will
I ve one completed, all details included, by March, and be
ble to give you a fairly accurate account of combat flying
:1 1918. He’ll show you a copy of the first plane that flew
lie Atlantic and tell you that Lindbergh sat in a wicker
at just like the one in the cabin of his copy, and that its
right Whirlwind engine turned exactly 1850 rpms.

Tracy’s modelers are a step beyond mere boys building
- anes. They’re boys getting an education and enjoying a
ascinating hobby all at the same time. He strives for an

- 'tra by-product—to teach the builders something of the
" citing air history of the last fifty years, lightly brushed
vcr in their formal education. The classes are conducted
11 a sort of “clinical” basis. Boys can make the kind of
alanes they like best, to capitalize on their natural interest;
at they’re coached to stick within the limits of their abili-
ies. Tracy knows the pitfalls of too complex projects.

Class interest is sparked by well-chosen samples brought
n by Tracy and his prize student, his twelve-year-old son,
an. When the group sees indoor models float through the
hool auditorium, there’s great enthusiasm to c0py them.
bout half of each class period is spent in the mechanical
rafting room, working on models pinned to old drawing

TOVEMBER 1958

 

“Flying Circus” winners try out a glider and a stick model.
Tracy thinks competition lends addcd spirit, fun, and purpose.

boards. This is an ideal place to work. The other half of
the period is used for test flying, learning the rudiments of
aerodynamic balance and adjustments, in the auditorium.

Since Tracy’s success, two similar classes have heen
started in the south and east sections of town. Both are
taught by fathers who have spent twenty-five years with
model planes as a hobby.

Tracy’s work with models goes back to his own teen-age
days in a small town, where he was the only model air—
plane builder. He organized a club and taught his friends.
He was hired by a Toledo newspaper right out of high school
to write about plane-building as a hobby. Then he learned
to fly and wrote a series about it. Somewhere along the way
he also became a professional newSpaper man.

He hit the peak of his own modeling career in 1937, by
winning the sixth and last open place on the American
Wakefield team, a six-man flying unit competing with simi-
lar teams from other nations, for the British Lord Wake-
field Cup. Rubber-powered duration models were flown out-
doors. This, considered the ultimate of such competitions,
is still being held.

When World War II broke out he joined the air force as
a cadet, was commissioned a pilot, and became a flying
instructor. After the war he remained in the Air National
Guard, and the Korean war put him back on active duty
for two years, until he resigned to continue his work at The
Press. He has bcen aviation editor for fifteen years. His
eleven-year military service included three thousand pilot
hours.

Part of Tracy’s job is writing a model aviation column
every Monday, Wednesday and Friday. This column is part
of the bond tying Cleveland’s great program of air meets
together and is probably responsible for Cleveland’s being

home to more skillful model plane builders than any other
city in the world. #

319

 

Versatile
Equipment

Can you name a piece of recreation equipment that: Can
be used just about anywhere? Can be used just about any-
time, for any length of time, without boring the partici-
pants? Requires no storage space? Costs less than a dol-
lar? Can be used individually? Can be used by couples?
Can be used by groups of from three to ten people—provid-
ing for a considerable amount of interaction? Can be used
by children and adults together or separately? Can be used
regardless of age, education, social status, physical capac-
ity, or emotional and intellectual level? And when it can
no longer be used for its original purpose, can serve other
purposes?

This equipment sounds like the answer to the recreation
leader’s prayer! Do you know what it is yet? Well, maybe
you can guess if you also know that:

0 Benjamin Franklin manufactured it, and used it as insu-
lation in electrical equipment he built in 1731.
o Portions of it were used as admission to classes at the
University of Pennsylvania in 1765.
0 A portion of it is known as the “Curse of Scotland,” be-
cause the English Duke of Cumberland inscribed execution
orders for the Scottish troops upon it.
0 During the “War Between the States” it was wrapped in
wire and fired by Union troops into the heart of Richmond,
as an improvised bomb.
0 Portions of it were used as identification papers for
workmen demolishing the Bastille during the French Revo-
lution.
o In Canada, it was used as currency in lieu of money in
the seventeenth century.

'I' 'I' 'l' I-

If you still haven’t guessed, here are a few more clues:
In Germany, it is composed of thirty-two pieces; in Italy
it is composed of seventy-eight pieces; in Spain the com-
ponents number forty; in France, England, and the United
States the components number fifty-two, sometimes forty-
eight; in Western Europe and the United States it is divided
into four sections; in the Orient it divides into three and five
sections, depending on where it is used; in Italy, thirty-
eight of the seventy-eight pieces in the item have stylized
portraits on them; in France only twelve have portraits.

320

Adaptable Program Ideas

Usable in the hospital, recreat
center, club or home setting .

* i 'I- l-

Yes, the item we’ve been talking about is a deck of play'
cards! This is perhaps one of the most versatile pieces
recreation equipment available. Let’s use it! You will '
that it can be many things to the recreation program.
History. There is a wealth of material concerning the
tory of playing cards, which can be used as themes L
parties, material for quiz programs and group discussio
facts for newspaper stories and articles, motivation for .
and craft projects, and many other ingenious purpo
We have given you only a few of the historical facts. Lo
ing up still others can be an activity in itself.

There are many free publications available on the hist
of cards, from the Association of American Playing Ca
Manufacturers, 420 Lexington Avenue, New York 17, N I
York. The public library is also a good source.

'Tricks. These are useful as ice breakers and as a standa

program activity, and can also be the answer to a pa
dying on its feet. Some card tricks require a bit of dext 
ity, many do not. The Association of American Playi I
Card Manufacturers offers these free publications on ca
tricks: I t’s All in the Cards and Take a Card. 
Party Activities. The National Recreation Association P
gram Department suggests the following additional uses f I
playing cards: 1
0 Old cards can be cut up and given out as people ente 
party. Matching pieces will thus help guests find partn
or form into groups. i
0 Contests can be run at a party to see who can build
highest structure balancing the cards on one another.
0 For an elimination dance, by calling cards individu
drop out. For a multiplication dance—call a “pinochle”
and the girl with the queen of diamonds and the boy
the jack of spades dance; a pair of eights pulls two m :
couples on the floor, and only people with deuces can
in—-because deuces are wild.
o Fortune telling is lots of fun. You’ll find traditio _
directions in Foster’s Complete Hoyle.
Values for Children. Playing cards can be used with c
dren. In addition to the fun of playing, they receive pr
tice in recognizing numbers; arithmetic, in keeping scor
and the interpersonal values of playing a table game. Th
are many special children’s card games on the market tod
from a game called Authors to M ahe a Sentence. The Uni r
States Playing Card Company, Cincinnati 12, Ohio, ha
twenty-five cent booklet called 50 Card Games for Childr
Card Games. In an organized recreation program we of
hear of bridge classes and tournaments, and perhaps c
asta, too. There are hundreds of additional games, rar
used, that will provide hours of enjoyment for many.
Card games seem to fall into two classifications: ga

RECREATI

 
    
   
  
 
  
   
  
  

t have similar plays and vary only slightly are grouped
a family. Bridge is in the whist family. There are also
e families: pinochle, all fours, bezique, rummy, euchre,
rts, poker, and so on. The other classification is that
“national gamcs.” Some games that have stayed the same
ough the years and have not given rise to new variations
cribbage in England, skat in Germany, cassino in
merica, and others.

Other helpful publications, available free from the Ameri-
Playing Card Manufacturers are: How to Run a Pi-
chle Tournament, How to Run a Canasta Tournament,
ow to Play Calypso, How to Play Kaluki, How to Play
alian Card Games, How to Play Tarok (Central Euro-

 

Underestimated

Hobby

With the increasing popularity of genealogy as a hobby,
recreation directors in adult areas would do well to investi-
gate possibilities of “ancestor chasing” in their programs.
Unfairly dismissed as a pastime of millionaires and eccen-
trics for many years, family ferreting has now reached
widespread and respected participation. Evidence of its
growth is supported by the thousands who subscribe to some
forty newsletters, magazines, and newspapers devoted en-
tirely to genealogy, and by the fifty genealogical and his-
torical societies organized for promotion of this activity.
The National Archives and Records Service in Washing-
ton, D. C. receives some twelve hundred letters of inquiry
monthly. The New York Public Library copes with some
twenty-three thousand readers a year on the subject. More
than two hundred and fifty persons daily visit the library

I of the Genealogical Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of

Latter-Day Saints in Salt Lake City.
Why is interest in genealogy growing? Possibly because
it is exciting, educational, and inexpensive. In most rec-
. reation programs, expense is a prime factor. Genealogy is
a hobby that can be geared to the participant’s economic
status. Its biggest expense is postage and writing paper,
since a major part of research is accomplished by mail, the
remainder by digging in libaries and courthouses. Getting

I NOVEMBER 1958

pean) . Available at twenty-five cents each from the United
States Playing Card Company, Cincinnati 12, Ohio, are:
150 Ways to Play Solitaire and Fun with Games of Rummy.
Available free from the National Recreation Association
are: Rules for a Cribbage League and Football with Play-
ing Cards.

Available from the National Recreation Association Book
Center are: Contract Bridge Complete, ($4.50) and Contract
Bridge for Beginners ($1.00), both by Charles H. Goren;
Foster’s Complete Hoyle, R. F. Foster ($3.95) ; Scarne 0n
Cards, John Scarne ($4.95); and First Book of Bridge,

Alfred Sheinwold ($1.00).—ELLIOTT COHEN, NRA Con-
sulting Service on Recreation for the Ill and Handicapped.

started is often the most difiicult obstacle but a “how” book,
costing seventy-five cents, gives step-by-step directions. *

How can this hobby fit into recreation programs?

In the Community Center. The community recreation center
is a natural for a genealogy hobby club. Amateur and pro-
fessional genealogists can be found in even the smallest of
communities to lead these groups. Forums and speakers on
various research problems and findings add interest to the
sessions of instruction.

For the Aged. Here is a hobby in which the oldsters can
really be interested. Often these people have little to cling
to but the past, and by channeling this interest into organ-
ized research, the feeling of “doing something important”
can be accomplished. Talking about the “old days” is
always a p0pular pastime, and here’s a chance to put this
natural interest to constructive use. Research by mail may
recover lost and distant relatives and renew the past in
glowing color.

In the Hospital. Patients who get started on this in the
hospital have a hobby with terrific carry-over value. This
is especially true of some long-term patients, who, when
guided by an interested professional or amateur, can con-
tinue this research after discharge.

Many have already found this for themselves. I, myself,
have received numerous letters from persons who, though
confined to their homes, have found a fascinating way to
meet new friends all over the world by mail.

There are numerous other areas in which genealogy could
fit. For the most part, any person already established in
genealogy, whether professional or amateur, can be counted
on to assist in starting a hobby, or a group program, or both.

In this day of emphasis on family recreation, what could
be better than a hobby that pulls all the “kinsfolk” together,
at least on paper? There are numerous family organiza-
tions in existence today as the result of one person’s inter-
est in family history.—DICK STRACKE, recreation leader at
the Veterans Administration Hospital in Kansas City, and
member of the National and Kansas City Genealogical
Societies.

 

" The Genealogical Helper, Everton Publishers, Logan, Utah.

321

 

 

ASKETBALL has been the winter
B king and, until recently, also one
of the sore spots of the Williston, North
Dakota, recreation program. The in-
dependent basketball league, for all
men of seventeen years and older, was
steadily losing participants, and finally
board and staff, members ,decided to
make a detailed study of its past rec-
ords and interview as many former
participants as possible.

Records disclosed that in four out of
the league’s first five years, two teams
dominated play, and in one other year
three teams had been fighting for top
spot. Four of the remaining five teams,
in the first two years, were amazingly
close in ability. The last-place team
lost every game played for two years,
and dropped out during the third
season.

Rivalry between the two tOp teams
became so tremendous that the recre—
ation department could not get officials
to call the games. Referees did not
want any part of the Williston City
League. Several were threatened with
bodily injury, and the language and ac-
tions of the participants were not things
to be proud of. Sponsors of these two
teams were spending as much as $600
a season just for uniforms.

In the fifth year of Operation only
four teams remained. Needless to say,
they were the t0p four teams of the pre-
ceding year. All of the players who had
played on the four bottom clubs had
had enough.

A league meeting was called to dis-
cuss this problem. Several reasons for
lack of interest were advanced, among

them the fact that: (1) the local high

MR. STONE, a former director of recre-
tion in Williston, is now director of rec-
reation, Bristol, New Hampshire.

322

INDEPENDEN
BASKETBAL l

A digerent community plan, for wider participation .

school team was amassing an amazing
winning record, and lack of fan support
for the city league made men lose in-
terest; (2) Williston youngsters with
athletic prowess were going to college
and new blood was not forthcoming;
(3) ice hockey, a new activity started
by the council, was interesting those
who normally would be playing bas-
ketball.

Feeling that the league should not be
operated for spectators, or for the sole
benefit of the athletically perfect, the
recreation department abandoned the
first and the second arguments. Scant
attention was paid the third because
hockey was new to Williston, so where
were our mediocre basketball players?
Most of the players who had dr0pped
out of the league gave the same rea-
sons: that it wasn’t any fun being
beaten twice a week' when you knew
you didn’t have a chance and that the
game should be played for fun, not for
honors or trophies.

The recreation department called a
meeting of all basketball enthusiasts in
the fall of 1953, and proposed a draft
plan for city league basketball. Every-
body who wanted to play would have
his name placed on a blackboard, and
each manager would draft his players
from these names until they were all
used up. Managers would draw 'straws
to see what positions they were to fill
from the drafting. We suggested a man-
datory rule that every player chosen
had to see action in at least two quar-
ters of every game.

The plan met with immediate vocifer-
ous disapproval from the members of
the three t0p teams. They were asked
to try it for one season, however, at the
end of which a vote would be taken to
decide whether to continue the setup or

not. Instead of agreeing, they walked

Charles G. St _

out, to form teams to participate in
state-wide league.

Another meeting was held, in ea
November of that year, to draft playe
At the time we had only thirty-five m
signed up, none from the top thrl
teams of the previous year.

Four managers were picked, aI
drafting of players proceeded, 
team winding up with eight or m
players. In the first month of the 5
son, with four games a week, the
were never more than three points d
ference in any game. It wasn’t the b
basketball, but the main thing was t1
the players were getting to play and a.
joying it. A vote of participating pl
ers taken at the end of the season, \\
thirty-two to three in favor of contin I
ing. When this was announced, a
proximately forty players who had
fused to play because of the draft, p
tested because they weren’t allowed
vote. They were told they had to p
ticipate before receiving voting pri
leges.

In the 1954 season, enough play
registered for six teams, including so
of the holdouts from the year befo
All teams again drafted their players.

Though there was still some co
plaining in 1955-56, most of the b
voted for this system again, and
have had more than sixty and eig
players, respectively, with more jo
ing throughout each season since th

So in favor of the draft are they 11
that the man who led the original
volt and walkout is the man who n
eXplains to a new member of the cm
munity, “This system makes by far t
most exciting league, and, after all, 0

 

recreation program is operated for t
many not just the few. We feel tl
this way we get all the mcn who wa

to play.” #

RECREATII

THE
ADMINISTRATION

- OF

.. MAINTENANCE

- ys of facilitating management . . .

AINTENANCE has only to do with maintaining facilities,
strictly speaking. However, we often break down
Ik-recreation service into two parts; one part is usually
notion of organized recreation; and what is left is in-
ed in the term “maintenance.” If this is the case, main-
ance has everything to do with facilities—including
ir planning, construction, and keeping them in working
fer.
or the purpose of this administration, it is necessary to
nIble landscape and building architects, engineers,
ftsmen, foremen, laborers, carpenters, painters, electri—
ns. cement finishers, steelworkers, plumbers, horticultur-
, gardeners, agronomists, entomologists, mechanics, ac-
tants, clerical workers, experts on administration and
iIicity, and, quite frequently, police.
iquipment required includes the various kinds of equip-
It usually found in offices, including typewriters and
iness machines of various kinds; passenger automobiles,
ks, gasoline-operated equipment, such as shovels, bull-
ers, trenchers, as well as fairly large sized earth-mov-
equipment; snowplows and snow sweepers, street sweep-
lawn mowers, debris loaders; and many varieties of
equipment too numerous to mention.

Management Operation

Lfacilitate the management of this army of personnel
ass of equipment, divisions are organized, of which

 
   
 
   
 
      
   
   
 
  

may he samples: planning division, engineering and
ruction, maintenance, horticulture (sometimes com-
into one division) ; police, legal, administration and
nnel, which usually includes accounting procedures
office organization, as well as public relations and gen-
lpersonnel management. The heads of these seven or
t| divisions constitute the administrator’s staff, which
's as a committee in formulating administrative poli-
Ias well as coordinating the various divisions.

maximum operating efficiency, this whole array of
r and machines organized into the several divisions
act in unison. This means, theoretically, that the low-
-- n on the payroll ladder must know what the t0p ad-

' rator is trying to do, and the top administrator must

  

I
'DOELL is superintendent of parks in. Minneapolis.

v\lDt‘D 10:9

know the capabilities and provide clear instructions to the
lowest man. It also means that those in each division
must know the general objectives of those in other divi-
sions, the relationship between the divisions, and how their
work is correlated to make a sensible whole. All this re-
quires almost constant communication back and forth be-
tween divisions, as well as communications from top to
bottom. Keep that word, “communication,” in mind. It is
all important in efficient operation and the one management

element most (liflicult of accomplishment.

Communication

A number of devices have been used to promote communi-

ication. Periodic staff meetings provide one means at the

top level; printing and distributing a house organ is an-
other. In-service training programs are also used to good
advantage; in addition, there must be Opportunity for divi-
sion heads to transmit messages orally to their next-in-
command, and so on down the line. In order that this line
of communication be a two-way affair provision is fre-
quently made for workers to make suggestions to their
superiors for improving service. This is done either by a
suggestion box or through incentive devices of one sort
or another.

All communication efforts are for carrying out policies
determined at the administrative level. This feature of ad-
ministration is frequently neglected, in that policies are
not clearly set forth, either written or otherwise. It is essen-
tial, and should be axiomatic, that organizational policies
must be crystallized and clearly eXpressed and that every-
one in the organization know not only the objective of the
whole department but his own small part in carrying it out.

Personnel Maehinery

Personnel management—especially how personnel may
be used to its best advantage as well as some of its limita-
tions—is important. In most parts of our country, and cer-
tainly in the northern half, the working force of even tax-
supported agencies is organized into trade unions. While
these unions may not have bargaining power in the sense
that such bargaining leads to a formalized contract, they
do, for all practical purposes, negotiate on working condi-
tions and pay scales. The latter are usually established
after comparison with pay scales and fringe benefits paid
by private employers. Improvement in pay and fringe bene-

QOQ

A
D
M
I
N
I
S
T
R
A
T
l
O
N

 

fits is justified almost solely by increased productivity per
worker. This may be the result of improved personal
efficiency, as well as the use of more efficient machinery.
These improvements are usually the result of combined ef-
forts of management and labor, and hence careful coopera-
tion between the two is needed. This should be true of pub-
lic service, too. To warrant the wages and other benefits
of private industry, public service should improve its
productivity per individual.

Much has been said recently concerning the desire of
organized labor to have a guaranteed annual wage. Such
an objective is partially, if not wholly, possible in the main-
tenance of parks and recreation, as demonstrated both in
Milwaukee and Minneapolis. In these cases, maintenance
employees are assured a full year’s work. Their total an-
nual wage is divided into an equal number of payroll
periods so paychecks are uniform throughout the year, but
the number of hours worked varies with the demand for
that service in different seasons of the year. In Minneapolis,
during the winter months, there is full-time employment, if
not an excess of full-time employment, during the skating
season. There is very little work between February 15 and
April 10, and so on. There is no overtime pay. This system

is very satisfactory to the working force, as well as to
management.

Coordination of Services

Having assembled an organization and other means for
accomplishing a mission, the next problem to be faced is
servicing recreation—for which the rest was set up. It is
the task of organized recreation program personnel to
establish that program, whereupon maintenance personnel
provides the means and maintains facilities. The service
actually rendered to the public consists of a combination of
parks and recreatiOn, each department indistinguishable
from the other to the average citizen. The citizen expects an
integrated service will be available to him.

In more specific terms, careful coordination in the plan-
ning, construction, and maintenance of facilities is para-
mount. In the planning stage, key recreation personnel
should confer with personnel of the planning unit in order
that each may know all the problems incident to the laying
out, design, and appearance of facilities, for carrying on
the work and services recreation pe0ple will provide. This
means that the point of view of the play leaders in the field,
as well as of their executives should be included in such
conferences. A committee representing the general public
should also have an Opportunity to express the point of
view of those who are to receive these services. Planning

is an all-inclusive process, which should embrace all
agencies.

Timing
One of the important considerations in construction is
scheduling. Construction ought to be so arranged that it in-
terferes as little as possible with the actual conduct of rec-

reation activities and the various seasonal sports. This,
again, requires joint planning-during construction.

324

   
 
   

The most needed area of closest and most continuous '
ordination between maintenance and recreation forces i
the day-to-day use of the facilities provided. Ballfi
should be available and at their best for important ga
scheduled by recreation people. Cleaning the spray :
wading pools should be timed carefully so the general p
lie is inconvenienced as little as possible in their use
them. Seasonal preparation of the various facilities
equally important; in fact, frequent communication sho
be established between the two departments all during
year so that the whole operates as one service.

 

Method

Through in-service training programs and numer
other ways, the recreationist’s point of view must be tr '
mitted to the maintenance people so that the many deta
instructions, which would be otherwise necessary, ma
eliminated and the work carried on automatically. I
equally important that the recreationist understand the pr
lems of the maintenance people so that the program can
altered to fit the exigencies of a given situation. The
intimate kind of coordination must exist between the I“

 
  
  
  
 
 
 
    
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
    
  

agencies.

One of the great penalties of a lack of coordination
tween the recreation and maintenance divisions or de
ments is that of misunderstanding, thus presenting a
unified service to the public—a serious matter indeed
affects the morale of the separate departments, which
turn, affects the service rendered, and creates an unfa
able public opinion, something to be avoided at all cost

Public Relations

Since, in today’s complicated society, so many inte
prevent people from knowing much about any one acti
sensible public-relations programs are essential in par -
recreation work. This service is more one of interpret
than of actual promotion. There is need of promoti
active recreation, to be sure, but what we are talking .
now is one in which citizens are informed of available
ices and how they may take advantage of the recr
opportunities within cities. Here again, there must
sarily be great coordination either between two se
organizations or within one agency, or where one p
relations office carries on the work of both.

'I' 'l- 'I' *-

The desirability of having park and recreation serv
one agency of the municipal government should be -
ent. Some of the coordination, for instance, sugges
one administrative agency would facilitate some as -
communication. It does not eliminate conferences be -
functional groups, of course, but it helps establish a
tion in which total park and recreation activities can
with the least effort. Furthermore, separating the park
the recreation function is not a natural or automatic 1
separation, for there will always remain some recr
on the park side of the line and some park on the r
tion side. An arbitrary assignment of functions

evitable. #

RECR a

ing to a nationwide survey conducted by American Forest
Products Industries of Washington, D. C.

There are nearly 43,000,000 acres, or 92.4 per cent of the
total area covered, open to hunters in season and a still
reater acreage is open to fishing. Sixty-five companies
iiave gone so far as to establish public parks and an equal
lumber of companies are planning to do so. Seven com-
ianies employ professional recreation planners; thirty-one
mploy game-managcment specialists to work with hunters
nd fishermen to improve the game-fish supply. In a single
ear—1956—companies included in the survey estimated
hat 1,533,795 persons used their lands for recreation, in-
luding hunting and fishing.

Common recreation facilities provided at many company
arks include picnic tables and benches, fishing, firewood,
wimming, toilets, garbage pits, overnight camping, boat-
1g, parking areas, boat ramps, and running water. Permits
re required for major activities by many companies.

Employee Recreation

Recreation Management magazine, a new publication of
1e National Industrial Recreation Association, has con-
ucted a spot check of 240 NIRA member companies to de-
rmine their t0p indoor and outdoor facilities. The fol-
wing tabulation indicates what facilities have been found
orkable and what are most popular in employee programs.

INDOOR OUTDOOR
Meeting Room 131 Ball Diamonds 108
Recreation Room 80 Horseshoe Pits 90
Auditorium 60 Picnic Area 69
Card Room 58 Playfield 56
Recreation Building 51 Trap & Skeet 37
Library 45 Tennis Courts 35
Billiard Tables 31 Rifle Range 35
Gymnasium 29 Swimming Pool 19
Bowling Alleys 25 Golf Course 18
Crafts Room 19 Camp 14
Bait Casting Pool 12
Archery Range 12

Appraisals of Land Values

In a memorandum, entitled “Full Development of Public
.ources,” issued by the chairman of the Senate Commit-
on interior and Insular Affairs, June 16, 1958, reference
made to the present cstimated market value of federal
rks and forests. The public domain realty controlled by
U. S. Forest Service was appraised at its estimated
rket value in June 30, 1957 to be more than $6,500,000,-
. The value of certain improvements made on the pub-
domain was reflected in part in these land and timber
ues, but no allowance was made for public values of
Jortant uses, such as water production.
imilarly the Department of the Interior estimated that,
June 30, 1957, the value of funds reserved or withdrawn
n the public domain and under the administrative con-
1 of the National Park Service totaled $641,741,000,000.
is estimated value was based on real estate rather than on
reation or other values and does not give proper weight
he scenic and recreation sites of the national parks and
numents. #

. BUTLER is director of the National Recreation Association
search Department.

'EMBER 1958

Action A-Plenty for
Players of All Ages!

Folding
Pool Tables

52-!
,

_..__..._.
glow-10:-

1-

MODEL 3415—7-FO0T SIZE
Other sizes for Juniors,
Teens ond Adults from

40 inches to 8 feet.

Live octian cushions with top
quolity billiord cloth. Leg
Ievelers for true shots.
"Subway" ball return. Heavy,
topered legs for rigidity.

Converts to
Tobie Tennis.
As dining
toble, seots
18 persons.

Write todoy for catalog.

SUPERIOR INDUSTRIES CORP.
520 Coster Street, New York 59, N.Y.

 

 

“The Choice of Those Who Play The Game"

The MacGregor Co. ° Cincinnati 32, Ohio
FOOTBALL ° BASEBALL ° BASKETBALL ' GOLF ' TENNIS

 

When writing to our advertisers Olease mention RECREATION- 29.7

zO-«bmqm—z—gob

 

 

 

0 World Wide Games

makes a handsome
version of Skittles,
which I saw at the
40th National Recrea-
tion Congress in At-
lantic City. This game
originated in China
and was taken back to
England, by sailors
and missionaries,
where it was given its
present name. This in-
triguing large table game is ideal for both adults and
youngsters, fascinated by the Spinning top that knocks down
pins for various scores as it skitters through the box. Skit-
tles is 18” wide by 40” long by 41/?” high; the sides and
fittings are of black walnut; the pins and t0ps are hard
maple; and the bottom is hardwood plywood, usually gum
or birch. For further information write Warren 0. Bailey,

World Wide Games, Radnor Road, Delaware, Ohio.

 

0 The Stran-Steel Corporation offers a brochure describing
one of their recent developments that would be of particular
interest to recreation executives responsible for new build-
ings. The product: the first pre-engineered steel buildings
in color, using a new vinyl-aluminum protective coating,
which comes in blue, green, bronze, rose, gray, and white,
as well as the standard metal finish. This two-layer coating
is not a paint and is applied to the galvanized steel panels
at the factory, which are designed for quick erection. The
test samples are said to have withstood rigorous continuous
exposure tests, with no deterioration in the finish, no loss
of adhesion, nor corrosion of the base metal. The new coat-
ings are also said to be resistant to blistering, peeling, and
cracking, thus providing your building with a longer serv-
ice life at lower cost. A handy color guide, contained in
the brochure, enables you to visualize the design possibili-
ties and color combinations inherent in this product. Write
to Stran-Steel Corporation, Detroit 29, Michigan, for your
free COpy. '

0 Unauthorized use of elec-
trical equipment is always
a recreation supervisory
' problem. To guard against
' the potential hazards and
breakage implicit in such
use, the Yale Lock-It Plug
has been devised, contain-
ing a retractable, key-oper-
ated nylon safety bar,which,
when in a locked, project-
ing position, prevents the

 

entrance of the plug into an electrical outlet. When the key
is turned, the safety bar is retracted and the plug, bearing

5528

NEWS

 

 

F or further information regardin
any of these products, write direct!
to the manufacturer. Please mentio
that you saw it in RECREATION.

  

 

J can \Vacht-c.

 

the Underwriter°s label, can then be inserted into an outlet
This device would have wide application wherever powe
tools, soldering irons, electrical laboratory equipment, pro
jectors, PA systems, and so on are used. Write Yalc é

Towne Manufacturing Company,11 South Broadway,Whitt
Plains, New York.

I The Clarke wet-dry vacuu
cleaner is one of seven models in
completely new line featuring ma
innovations in vacuum cleaner (I
sign. It is designed for “pickin
up dirt, dust and liquids of
kinds, and cleans everything fro
floor to ceiling, even furnace bo
ers,” according to the company. i
is intended primarily for ma'
tenance of large buildings. T I
machine was the only commerc' .
industrial type of vacuum clea
selected for exhibition in the
Pavilion at the Brussels Wo
Fair. For complete information, write the Clarke Sand°
Machine Company, Muskegon, Michigan.

 

  
 
  
  
    
    
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
  

 

Hodel 620

0 The Von Duprin Division of Vonnegut Hardware C
pany has introduced a new line of surface-applied fire -
panic exit devices, to be used on the doors of all kinds
institutions — hospitals, schools, recreation cent
churches, and so on———made of stainless steel, the first s
device of this metal. The product is the result of sev
years’ development, arising from the requests of many ar
tects for strength, beauty, and ease of maintenance.
complete device for a single door weighs about tw
pounds. For complete information, write the compan
Indianapolis, Indiana.

0 A new automatic fire detection and alarm system I
vides protection under a number of adverse conditions
large public buildings. Manufactured by the Minneap
Honeywell Regulator Company, this system shifts autor
cally to a standby battery power supply in case of
power failure and will function if the wiring circuit
been grounded, or if both wires connecting fire dete
with central alarm station have been broken. The ce
control panel contains numbered indicating lights shox
the location of a fire and a number of thermostat-size
detectors. An alarm is sounded when there is an ab
mally rapid temperature increase or whenever temp
ture exceeds a specific level. Also provided are a fire w
ing device and at least one manual fire alarm sta
Honeywell‘sales engineers will supervise installation,
one year’s free service. Details on the system, approve
the Underwriters Laboratories, may be had by wri
Minneapolis-I-Ioneywell, Commercial Division, 2753 F0
Avenue South, Minneapolis.

RECREA

   

I W AD Rm RS SOlVE BUDGET PROBlEMS Th
"DE F W E  Shop from this FREE   
Page  :*.::::::.v;:;:":3::., nvnnnsnc "0

Metal Tennis Table Company ____ __ 297 -~ may 0, quay”,
. . . supplies to: your CATALOG
errcan Playground Devrce Company 302 t_ gymnasium with this

   
       
       
    
    
   
   

      
     

   

    

I 1: value-laden catalog  “ Scheduling
llman Publishing Company  331 t. as your guide. n Promotion
| a. TRADE-IN YOUR OLD h A I A , .
lello Fencing Equipment ,- . 301 '5 EQUIPMENT on tines M... “mu-"ration
,'\ apparatus available. I Par/,b-par
mpion Playground Equipment 297 fend P°‘* “rd *°‘, r‘ 0,0,. ’0”
I s f : ‘ . I “9* E“ ’0’)
'cago Roller Skates he-  Back Cover Dre-Hum": H "“- h f
GYMNASTIC SUPPLY co. "330 0"
of Los Angeles -_ _. m-.. 331
250 West 6th St. San Pedro. Cdlii- Q
osition Press a- . . . _ 331> ______________________________  
mnastic Supply Company 329

  

NOTHING—BUT NOTHING—builds
stronger teams and better programs than
Program Aids. The sure way to Scientific
Coaching, More Wins, Increased Game

man/we

FOLDING

dweayer 8. Craftsman . Inside Back Cover

     
      
       
   
   
     
  
 
 

   

       
       
       
   
     
      

e Cratts Company  Insrde Back Cover B Attendance, New mesh-go.
O ERASO" Posters & Charts
p Scum ------------------------- --*-   0 SPOT AWARDS” Trophies 8: Cups
. O PLAYMASTER" Coaching Aids
8. R. Manufacturing Company 331 0' t F u o sconaxmw Magnetic Scoreboard
rec & 0r .
ggicggurghegisggggé o RECORD-MASTER*“Holl-ot-Fome"Dlsplays
' es Spencer & Company ___.-.._.- .  3390:” $213,333 0 Executive Scheduling Kits
. .  50 000 in_ use us m on WRITE FOR CATALOG TO -
Ison Playground Equlpment . - 329 Ei‘iitu‘tlipnzmggrg "IE pROGRAM AIDS co" INC.
. s “‘1'”? ‘0 "’3 Dept. R, 550 5th Ave.. N. Y. 36. N. Y.
. Banquet Tables.
tro Athletic Supply Company. 331 3,53%?)1? thaw;    _ _ I 4.,
a o ‘1 a) o  ' :-:-__ a.
Pet Manufacturer __....._-._. . _ 297 neiiil'fal'n'jir‘iiiAl‘o‘é  ’ pLAYGROUND
  mean
i 11' . \
- MacGregor Company . . 327 '{igiiigs beings E Q U I PM E N T
igg" ‘i’i‘i‘grs. new:  sure todclltpck twororfty efxclusiw: Iferoturfes2 £1:
}, .' ° . . IS [0990 INC. fl 9 Of [.0 CO 0 09 O
[’03 Company _______ -. _  htitingilgs’its‘ciilinlzgcftlso terms. "9""-
Monroe Co.. 181 Church St., Colfax, Iowa «Eggs? "Tharnrfflclturisn'g C'o. 
. e e e o - l'
tronal Tuberculosis Assocratron _ 29'! los Angeles a? chief.

 

 

 

I York unwerSII’y—‘ISChOOI Of WHOOPS FOR HOOPSI Older boys and girls prefer New, improved Golden Age Club Pin.

Education uh_h_____#_*__*_____.|nside Back Cover Hoop Scoot. This sport, combining soccer with dodge- Now in real gold plate with tree in
boll, is played in small areas. The flexible hoop {not green iewelers' enamel. Safety catch.

like the current novelty), used in place of a ball, 75¢ each, including federal tax and

sen Trampoline Company ,________P”_____.__  bounces oft windows hormlessly. During the winter 905109.,
months, it Is the most exciting sport ployed concurrently ' Minimum order 10 pins

with basketball. $2.00 complete. For information, Available only to authentic dubs.

ntrce-Hall. Incorporated . . . . . . . _ . . . _. 297 We H00, scoo,  " ' JAMES 5pmch 3. co.
 220-59 73rd Avenue, Boyside 64, New York. EXACT SIZE 22 N' 6m 5"“, Phihdalphia 6’ Pa'

 

Program Aids Company __

 

en Industries .__._.--__ __--.Inside Back Cover

erior Industries Corporation .._...-_.___. 327 C L A S S I F I E D A D V E R  S I N G

RATES: Words in regular type $.15 each DEADLINES: Copy must. be received by

. lWBI’dZIk 8- Company ..... -- _-.._ 297 Words in boldface type $.25 each the fifth of the month preceding date of

S R 5b R I . . c 3 2 Minimum ad accepted...... $3.00 the issue in which ad is desired.

' " 9' ec a'mmg ompany ‘- '" 0 COPY: Type—or clearly print—your message and the address to which you wish
re lies sent. Underline an words on want to appear in boldface type.

el-Peterson Company ...... we ___ 302 p y y

Send capy with remittance to:

l ———-----------------------——--r  ----- 301 RECREATION Classified Advertising, 8 West Eighth Street. New York 11. New YOrk-

 

IIELP WANTED open to college graduates Youth Center-Poo] Su-
Recreation Therapists with major in recreation or pcryisor. Woman as su-
for California state hospi- recreation therapy. No ex- perv1sor for new teen-age

N019 to writers for Recreation? tals.,0pportunity to plan periencc required to start cenécr and 1larége stsi4ménogr
From this aim on no man"- and conduct individual pa- at $376. Promotions pOSSl- out oor poo. tart , .
. . p tient recreation as well as ble to $644. Write State Apply Monte Weed, Super-
CI"P‘s “N” be returned Unless ac' special group activities; ex- Personnel Board, 801 Capi- intendent Recreation. Fair
companied by a se|f_addressed cellent equipment and fa- tol Avenue, Sacramento Lawn. New Jersey.

cilities available. Positions California.

stamped enevelope. - . . .
The publisher assumes no responsibility for set-mess or stems advertised here.

 

I VEMBER 1958 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 329

Quaint? ennui“;

We have asked the chairmen of the
sessions on recreation for the ill and
handicapped at the 40th National Rec-
reation Congress, in Atlantic City.
September 22-26, to give us a “capsule”
report of each; some of these follow.

Recreation—A Positive Force in Pre-
ventive Medicine. Chairman: Carol
Lucas, Ed.D., Recreation Consultant,
Federation of Protestant Welfare A gen-
cies, Inc., New York City.

Alexander Reid Martin, M.D.,
speaker at this session, declared that
modern technocratic man cannot avail
himself of the blessings of leisure. With
more leisure time available, there is a
growing incapacity to enjoy it and use
it creatively. Dr. Martin took the
word “riper” and dissected it as fol-
lows: R stands for religion, I for in-
dustry, P for psychiatry, E for educa-
tion, and R for recreation. Each word
was discussed in detail, thus making his
presentation novel and refreshing.

Report on the NRA Study of Recrea-
tion in Hospitals. Chairman: Elliott
Cohen, Research Specialist, National
Recreation Association.

Dr. John E. Silson, director of the
study of recreation in hospitals, Pleas-
antville, New York, and biostatistical
consultant to the NRA, discussed the
statistical findings; and Dr. Warren
Johnson of the American Psychiatric
Association suggested that the study
laid the long-needed foundation for fur-
ther development of suggested standards
for hospital recreation personnel. Mar-
tin Meyer, coordinator of activities ther-
apy of the division of mental health in
Indianapolis, stated that the study is a
mirror into which each of us can look,
to see ourselves as part of a new and
exciting profession. We now have the
basis for developing our profession in
relation to others working with the ill
and handicapped. In making the study,
the National Recreation Association has
performed a great service not only to

hospital recreation, but to the entire
recreation field.

Techniques of Observation and Report-
ing on Patients’ Behavior. Chairman,

Louis Linn, M.D., Mt. Sinai Hospital,
New York City.

Following formal presentations by
the panelists, there was a stimulating
discussion based on questions from the
floor. Problems of communication be-
tween dilIerent members of the modern

330

 

Beatrice H. Hill

hospital treatment team were discussed
and the importance of frequent staff
meetings for the exchange of informa-
tion was emphasized. Using the recre-
ation worker to handle group and indi-
vidual emotional emcrgencies on psy-
chiatric, medical, and surgical wards
was illustrated with case histories. The
importance of the recreation worker’s
observations in the psychiatric evalua-

tion and treatment of each case was
also brought out.

New Concepts in Recruitment and Edu-
cation of Personnel Working with the
lll and Handicapped. Chairman: C. C.
Bream, Jr., Chief, Recreation Division,
Special Service, Veterans Administra-
tion, Washington, D. C.

This was a very stimulating meeting.
Following brief presentations by panel
members, each was challenged from the
floor on some point. These “challenges”
were in themselves thought provoking
and brought forth additional facets of
the total problem. Of particular inter-
est was whether there should be a gen-
eric core curriculum for all ancillary
therapists in the hospital or a specific
graduate sequence for each specialty.

Demonstration of Recreation Tech-
niques for the Mentally Retarded.
Chairman: Mrs. Henry W. Gould,
Chairman, Recreation Committee, Na-

tional Association for Retarded Chil-
dren.

These workshops were divided into
two parts: a swimming and a music
demonstration. Demonstrations were
put on by four retarded children from
the swimming program conducted at
the YWCA, Ridgewood, New Jersey.
Richard Brown, director of water safety
of the American Red Cross, said,
“These children are human beings and
can be taught to do things, if they are
given a chance.” In the second, David
Ginglend, teacher and camp director,
showed how seriously retarded chil-
dren of all ages can learn to enjoy mu-
sic. By acting out the actions suggest-
ed—-——use of rhythm, folk dances—these
children demonstrated genuine appre-
ciation and enjoyment, and results
were most’evident and amazing.

Community Resources Available Na-
tionally and Locally for Recreation in
Hospitals and Related Institutions.
Chairman, Alice Burkhardt, Recreation
Leader, Bellevae Schools of Nursing,
New York City.

This was an exhihit consisting of
twenty-five booths, all chosen because

they olIered new, creative, unusual, .
imaginative resources in programs '

the ill and handicapped. Represen-
tives of each display were on hand
exhibit, explain, and descrihe their n -
terial, which included gem polishi ,
jewelry making, unusual games .j
program ideas, music, photograp __
puppetry, home-to-school radio, sta
collecting, talking hooks, plus gadgt
free films, and lists of availai
materials.

How to Use Recreation Activities as
Therapeutic Tool. Chairman, Thon
H. Rickman, Jr., Chief, Special Se.
ices, U. S. Public Health Hospi _

Ca rvill e, Louisiana.

In this enthusiastic meeting a n.
and definite trend in both thought .
action was in evidence—the use of .
recreation activities as a therape
tool in patient treatment. It was e
dent that a closer alliance between t -
recreation worker and the medical a l
psychiatric profession is occurri
throughout the country. The use

specific program activities was (I
cussed.

Ethnic Factors in Planning Recreati
Programs for Patients in Nursi
Homes and Homes for the Aged. Ch -
rnan, Elias S. Cohen, Commission
Department of Welfare, Harrisbm
Pennsylvania.

While ethnic factors are often one
the determinants in planning recreati
programs for patients in nursing hon ,
and homes for the aged, it was agre
that emotional reSponsc, psychologi
make-up, and the interrelationships
staff and patients were underlying f
tors in program dcvelopment. It \
pointed out the we frequently fail
take the anthropologist’s approach
learn as much as possihle about the 1
patterns of the patient with whom
deal. An interesting formulation cl
sified patients in nursing homes in fo
groups: watchers, participators, thii
ers, and creators.

Cooperative Planning for the Hat
capped — Joint Responsibility of |
Community and the Institution, ’Ch .
man, Lucy F. Fairbank, Assistant In
rational Therapy Consultant, Illin
Department of Public Welfare.

It was agreed that the handicap]
as citizens have a right to thc servi
of community recreation progral
and, if at all possible, the handicap]
should be absorbed into regular leis I '.
timc programs. An important aspec
the job of those in recreation at he _
tals and clinics is to cducate comm
ties to see their responsibilities. 0
reluctance stems from feelings of
adequacy or fear on the part of
community recreation leaders. #

RECREAT

Magazine Articles

   
   
    

a I
I L
'11
II
 E AMERICAN CITY, October 1958.
A One-Man Truck for Park Irrigation,
William Penn Mott.
Ve Needed a Good Hill for Sledding,
George B. Cashey.
: ERICAN SQUARES, October I958.
Let’s Play Games.
ANGINC TIMES, August 1958.
- l I" et Your Community to Grab That Vacant
Land.
' sPITALS, August 16, I958.
' "'hy Do Volunteers Voluntcer?
| Berke.
L'RNAL OF IIEALTII PHYSICAL EDUCATION
AND RECREATION, September 1958.
hysical Fitness in the Pentomic Agc,
Simon A. McNeely.
Tomorrow’s Programs of Recreation and
Outdoor Education, Louis E. Means.
Health, Physical Education and Recreation
Programs in the USSR, Arthur A. Es-
slinger.
NIOR LEAGUE, September-October 1958.
Volunteer Horizons.
ARI; MAINTENANCE, September 1958.
Hearst Castlc ls Popular New Park Site
in California.
ECREATION MANAGEMENT, October 1958.
Here’s How Timken Holds a Sports Ban-
quet.
Basketball Takes on a New Look.
IIE ROTARIAN, October 1958.
Re: Highly Organizcd Sports for Small
Boys? . . . A Debate, James Bradshaw
and F. S. Mathewson.

IFETY EDUCATION, October 1958.

The Whole Town Gave a Halloween Party,
Mary Ellen Cothberg.

It’s More Than the Whoosh and the Bang,
Robert F. Gartner.

Ilalloween Citizenship Lesson,
Kralovec.

Poisonous Plants.

DAY’S IIEALTII, October 1958.

Authority—Kids Expect It From Parents,
Howurd Whitman.

ILDLIEE REIIEw, August 1958.

Conservation—Only A Catchword? Patrick
"7. Martin.

a

     
   
    
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
   
 
 

IE
*
i

Illarlc

Dalibor

Becks & Pamphlets
Received

TIvE GAMES AND CONTESTS (Second Edi-
tion), Richard J. Donnelly, William G.
Helms, and Elmer D. Mitchell, Editors.
Ronald Press, 15 E.“ 26th St., New York 10.
Pp. 672. $6.50.

DOLESCENT VIEWS HIMSELF, TIIE, Ruth
Strang. McGraw-IIill, 330 W. 42nd St., New
York 36. Pp. 581. $7.95.

OLESCENT YEARS (Reprint), John J. Brooks
and Lco A. Spiegel. Child Study Associa-
tion, 132 E. 74th St., New York 21. Pp. 19.
$.30.

    
 

nvnm nun T ORR

 

AMERICAN FOLK TALES AND LEGENDS, Maria
Leach. World Publishing Co., 2231 W.
110th St., Cleveland 2. Pp. 319. $4.95.

ANCELS ON IIORSEBACK AND ELSEWHERE (Car-
toons), Thclwell. E. P. Dutton, 300 4th
Ave., New York 10. Pp. 96. $2.95.

AQUATIC PROGRAM (1957 revision). B o y
Scouts of America, New Brunswick, N. J.
Pp. 70. Paper, $1.75.

ART ALWAYS CHANGES, Ray Bethers. Hastings
House, 41 E. 50th St., New York 22. Pp. 96.

$3.95.
PICTORIAL MANUAL OF BOONBINDINC, Manly

Banister. Ronald Press, 15 E. 26th St., New

York 10. Pp. 40. $3.75.
PRACTICAL GUIDE To MODEL RAILROADINC,

Linn H. Westcott and Richard H. Wagner,
Editors. Kalmbach Publishing, 1027 N. 7th
St., Milwaukee 3. Pp. 60. Paper, $2.00.

PREADOLESCENTS—WIIAT MAKES THEM TICK?
(Reprint), Fritz Redl. Child Study Ass’n,
132 E. 74th St., New York 21. Pp. 7. $.20.

PRESERVATION 0F YOUTH, THE, (Essays on
Health), Moses Maimonides. Philosophi-
cal Library, 15 E. 40th St., New York 16.
Pp. 92. $2.75.

RECREATION AREAS (Second Edition), George
Butler. Ronald Press, 15 E. 26th St., New

York 10. Pp. 174. $6.00.
RECREATION FOR TIIE MENTALLY ILL, B. E.

Phillips, Ph.D., Editor. AAHPER, 1201
16th St., N.W., Washington 6, D.C. Pp. 77.
$2.00.

RIDE WITH TIIE SUN (Folk tales from coun-
tries Of the United Nations), Harold Cour-
lander, Editor. McGraw-Hill, 330 W. 42d
St., New York 36. Pp. 296. $3.50.

ROAD TOLL, T HE, Travelers Insurance Com-
panies, Hartford, Conn. Pp. 28. Free.

ROCK CLIMBING, C. W. Dixon. Sportshelf, 10
Overlook Ter., New York 33. Pp. 48. Paper,
$.75.

SCHOOL PIIOTOJOURNALISM—TELLING YOUR
SCIIOOL STORY WITH PICTURES. National
School Public Relations Association, 1201
16th St., N.W., Washington 6. Pp. 72. $2.00.

SHADY GARDENS, Emily Seabcr Parcher.
Prentice-Hall, Englewood Clifls, N. J. Pp.
282. $4.75.

SHARING IS FUN (Children’s Projects), Helen
Diehl Olds. Koinonia Foundation, Pikes-
ville Box 5744, Baltimore 8. Pp. 40. $1.00.

SING IT AGAIN. Methodist Church. Box 871,

Nashville, Tenn. Pp. 96. $.30.
SIXTY DANCE DIAGRAMS, Joseph F. Wallo. As-

sociated Booksellers, State St. 8: Maple
Ave., Westport, Conn. Pp. 64. $.60.

SOCIAL SECURITY FOR CANADA. T hc Canadian
Welfare Council, 55 Parkdale Ave., Ot-
tawa 3, Ont., Can. Pp. 20. $.25.

SOCIAL WORKERS IN SOCIAL WELFARE (Spe-
cial issue of Canadian Welfare), Canadian
Welfare Council, 55 Parkdale Ave., Ottawa
3, Ont., Can. Pp. 60. $.40.

SPORT INJURIES, Donald F. Featherstonc.
Williams 81 Wilkins, Mt. Royal and Guil-
ford Ave., Baltimore 2. Pp. 195. $7.50.

SPORTS FOR GIRLS AND WOMEN. American
Recreation Society, 1129 Vermont Avc.
N.W., Washington 5. Pp. 8. $.15.

STANDARDS AND GUIDES FOR TIIE DETENTION
OF CHILDREN AND YOUTH. National Proba-
tion and Parole Association, 1790 Broad-
way, New York 19. Pp. 142. Paper, $2.00.

STANDARDS IN SPORTS FOR GIRLS AND WOMEN,
AAHPER, 1201 16th St., N.W., Washing-
ton 6. Pp. 66. Paper, $.75.

 

JIM”
BASKETBALL

STEEL (HAITI
NETS

3 Years Guarantee!

outdoors or Indoors
Also featuring Jayfro’s custom built

ALUMINUM MULTl-PURPOSE STANDARDS
NYLON as NETs 8. BALL CARRIERS
TETHERBALL POLES a PADDLE SETs
ALUMINUM SHUFFLEBOARD SETs

,/ ALUMINUM BATTING TEEs

JAYFRO ATHLETIC SUPPLY CO.
Dept. R, Box 1065, NEW LONDON, CONN.

Recreation Directors

(Female)

needed by the

CITY [IF L08 ANGELES

— $395 to $489 M0. —

College graduation with major in
physical education, recreation,
sociology, education, theater arts,
or dance.

Write Room 5, City Hall
Los Angeles 12, Calif.

Free to WRITERS

seeking a book publisher

Two fact-filled, illustrated brochures tell how
to publish your book, get. 40% royalties, na-
tional advertising, publicity and promotion.
Free editorial appraisal. Write Dept. R 11

Exposition Press / 386 4111 Ave., N.Y. 16

 

   
     
   
   
     

CHRISTMAS GIFT BOOKS

Physical Education, G. K. Makechnie
Recreation Leadership, W. C. Sutherland
Numismatics, L. M. Reagan

$1.00 per title

BELLMAN PUBLISHING CO.
P O Box I72-R, Cambridge 38, Mass.

NEW AND IMPROVED

RYAN’S H. & 1R.

DRY LINE MARKERS

5 DIFFERENT MODELs
From 20# to 100# Capacity

Force Feed — Instant
Shutoff —- 50 lbs. co-
parity.

  
  

Shaker In Hopper for
Constant Flow.

Adiustoble Control on
Handle.

SAVES TIME AND
MATERIAL

Send to Dept. R {or booklet on {our other models
H. 8. R. MFG. CO., LOS ANGELES 34, CALIF.

33]

 

Creative Planning
of Parks and Play Areas

for

Learning, Living, and Leisure

School Planning Laboratory, School
of Education, Stanford University,
Stanford, California. Pp. 68. $2.50

This publication records the materi-
als presented at an institute, the theme
of which centered on cooperative plan-
ning and joint use of school and com-
munity park and recreation facilities.
Creative aspects of oint planning and
successful experience are described in
this significant book. Recreation work-
ers will be especiallyinterestedinthesec-
tions dealing with “Co-operative Plan-
ning for Creative Learning, Living, and
Leisure” and the “Design for Learning,
Living, and Leisure.” In addition to
samples of c00perative planning, the
publication contains illustrated ac-
counts of imaginative forms of play-
ground equipment and practical consid-

erations in the maintenance of recrea-
tion facilities. 

The Folk Arts of Japan

Hugo Munsterberg. Charles E. Tut-
tle Company, Rutland, Vermont. Pp.
168. $6.75.

“The skill to do more—with the will
to refrain.” This philosophy is aptly
demonstrated in The Folk Arts of
Japan. In many countries folk art has
given way to mass production. Vestiges
of folk art in the United States are still
seen in Pennsylvania Dutch designs or
American Indian blankets. Japan, with
all of its industrial know-how, has not
sunk to the artistic level of most of the
Western world.

Four hundred years ago, with the in-
ception of the “tea masters,” Japanese
folk art began to come into its own.
Objects used in the tea ceremonies had
to express shibusa (tastefulness) and,
as Soetsu Yanagi of the Japan Folk
Art Museum tells us in thc preface,
sliibusa . . . “includes ideas of sim-
plicity, quietude, prOpriety, Spontan-
eity, and the like, and holds the beauty
of nature and health in great regard.”

As one holds the book in his hands,
he begins to sense the meaning of
shibusa. The binding is covered with a
fabric that carries a traditional kasuri

332

PUBLICATIONS

Covering the Leisure-lime Field

design. The end papers are handmade

kozo paper. The color plates appear to
have texture. Of special interest to rec-
reation personnel are the sections on
toys, pottery, baskets, and related
objects, painting and sculpture, and
textiles. Hobby groups, especially, will
be interested in the contemporary folk
art movement in Japan.

Hugo Munsterberg is the son of the
famous German Orientalist, Oskar
Munsterberg and holds a Ph.D. in Ori-
ental art from Harvard. These qualifi-
cations, plus a genuine interest and un-
derstanding, cause his enthusiasm for
the subject to come alive in his writing.

The Folk Arts of Japan is yet another
expression of the poetic soul of the
Japanese, expressed perhaps, in this
Haiku verse:

“For a lovely bowl

Let us arrange these flowers. . . .
Since there is no rice.”

—-—Elliot M. Cohen, NRA Consulting
Service on Recreation for the Ill and
Handicapped.

Kinderspielplatze

Verlag Georg D. W. Callwey, Mun-
chen 2-Finkenstrasse 2, Germany.
12.50 Deutsche mark.

Playground literature has been en-
riched by the publication of this pro-
fusely illustrated book dealing with the
design and equipment of children’s
playgrounds. Edited by Gerda Gollwit-
zer, it contains articles dealing with the
importance of playgrounds, the public
playground in the city, and technical
advice for playground builders. The
first of these articles was written by
Liselott Diem, well-known to recreation
leaders in America.*

Major sections of the volume deal
with public playgrounds, playgrounds
in housing deve10pments, water play
areas, apparatus, and Indian play-
grounds. Although most of the play-
grounds pictured and described in de-
tail are in German cities, the book con-
tains examples from Holland, England,
Switzerland, Denmark, and Sweden.

Unfortunately, the book is available
only in the German edition, but so
much of it is devoted to excellent illus-

trations, sketches and plans, the fea-

* See Mrs. Dicm’s article “Playgrounds for
Creative Play,” RECREATION, April 1957.

  
 
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
  
 
 
 
   
    
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
   
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
 
 
 

tures of which are clearly identifi
that the language barrier is of mi!

significance.—-—Ceorge Butler, NRA

rector of Research.

Concepts and Methods
of Social \Vork

Walter A. Friedlander, Henry
Mass, Gisela Konopka, and Genevi
W. Carter. Prentice-Hall, Englewo
Clif’fs, New Jersey. Pp. 308. $6.00.

This is the achievement of four w
known social workers. Each writes
a different subject, although the top'
are related and intentionally integrat
Professor Friedlander, who doubtles
responsible for the book’s organizati r
—-—and a masterly job it is—-—has had t
assistance of three capable, experienc
writers, with the result that a basic wo
has been produced. The authors cla'
this is the first time the dynamics
social casework, social group work, a1
community welfare organization ha
been brought into focus.

While each chapter includes signi
cant material, the third chapter, “T
Method of Social Group Work,” is .
important section, as revealed by its ii
subheads: “Goals and Purposes of
cial Group Work,” “Theory of t
Social Group Work Method,” “Prin
ples of Social Group Work in Practic _
“The Group Worker as Teacher 3 ';
Supervisor,” “Group Work as a Part I
Social Work, and as a Part of Service
Humanity.” **

The background of a social gro
worker is composed of various dis
plines, derived from the study of so
ology, physical and biological scien
and history. From such long, hard pr
aration evolves what is termed pro
sional discipline. This discipline was
essential component of the group w
of settlement houses, the YW’s (
YMCA’s and the Jewish centers. l
of the elements extremely diHicult
handle was that of loneliness, forn
able in either the youngster or
grown-up.

The fifth chapter, “Social Welf
Administration and Research,” by l
fessor F riedlander, is an attempt
summarize what has been so grap
cally presented in the previous sectio

The book is complemented by a
lected bibliography of distinction,
addition to an author index, and a s
ject index without which a worthw
volume is irreparany harmed.—Ca
Lucas, Ed.D., recreation consult .
Division on Aging, Federation

Protestant Agencies, New York City

** See “The Social Group Worker in Pu
Recreation,” RECREATION, November, 19
“The Relationship of Recreation, Phys
Education and Group Work,” January 19

and “The Group Worker in the Recreat
Center,” March 1951.

RECREAT '

Craft Weaving

Braiding and Crocheting
makes

1t: POI HOLDERS * RUGS * MAIS

- Available In 20 beautiful
colors . . . also varlgated

Courses lead to the 3.5., M.A., PH.D.
and ED.D degrees and to work in public
and private agencies.

 

for information and prices, write

HOME CRAFTS COMPANY I— ____________ .__.._
Special Workshops:

BOX 352 KERNERSVILLE. NORTH CAROLINA

January 5-16.- Leadership of Recreation
Programs for

CHANGE OF ADDRESS .
Delinquent Youth.

I

I

I

If you are planning to move, notify us at least thirty l
days before the date of the issue with which it is to take I January l9-30: Maintenance and
effect, if possible, in order to receive your magazines I Operation of Facilities
without interruption. Send both your old and new ad-
dresses by letter, card or post oilice form 225 to: L

SUBSCRIPTION DEPARTMENT
  Write for information to:

8 WEST EIGHTH STREET Dr. Milton A. Gabrielsen
NEW YORK 11, N. Y. SCHOOL OF EDUCATION

The post oilice will not forward copies unless you pro-   

vide extra postage. Duplicate copies cannot be sent.

l

Washington Square, New York 3, New York

 

II &“7 ICE SKATING MADE EASIER
l   with a

RAVEN RINKLINER

Er Craftsman NEW
"‘ “ INTERESTING
PROJECTS
AND
IDEAS

FOR
WEAVERS

 

Single Copies $1.25

 

 I  I  ,1 .. . .. u ‘.

 

ublished Quarterly ——-— 64 Informative Pages , , , '
' o Rlnklrners are one-piece, heat-sealed plastic
Write today for brochure and prices on back issues. sheets.
subscription to Handweaver & Craftsman and a complete file 0 Playground and park sizes, 40 x 40 to ICC
' back issues will provide you with a live weaving library. x 200 ft.
0 Coldproof 4-mil polyethylene, nonbrittle.
Handweaver & Craftsman 0 Easy to lay out and flood.
DEPT. Re 245 FIFTH AVENUE! NEW YORK 1 0 Holds water till freezing occurs.
Single copy 3125, 1 YP- 54; 2 YTS- 57-50, 3 yrs. 310, 5 yrs. $15 RAVEN INDUSTRIES

Canadian postage 50c year extra, Pan American and foreign 81

Box 227, Sioux Falls, South Dakota

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

For Exercise and Recreation

5N YOUR GYM

More youngsters can be active in a given
area through roller skating than in any
other sport...and it’s fun. Little equip-
ment is needed, little supervision is neces-
sary. That’s why more and more schools

are making roller skating a definite part of

their physical education and recreation
programs. Why not inquire today!

 

4490-K West Lake Street, Chicago 24, Illinois

T0 GYM FLOORS

 

 

NEW DURYTE PLASTIC WHEELS

ARE KIND

New Duryte plastic wheels have a
long life and are guaranteed not to
mar or scratch gym floors. "Chi—
cago” has a skate designed for every
type of floor surface or finish. Write
today for free details on roller skat-

   
    

