 

 
 
 
   

Amber's! and
W’Hh'ams CoNeges
m?! meet in (be
Centermia! re-
menu! of their
first game at
Amherst May

I5 and 16.

    
 

  

ANNIVERSARY
College Baseball

- -GENUINE
":LIIIIISVILLE swusrn

' QM end/W

   

.-

  

A hundred years of college baseball is on occomplishment which is uniquely
American. To have been a part of this great collegiate baseball program for
the post 75 years is on honor of which the makers of Louisville Sluggers ore
iustifiobly proud. So congrotulotions -——from o youngster to on oldster!

    
     

(at/Euat§'

 

 

Hundreds of other

    
  
  
  
  
    
    
 
  
   
 

. Schedu'mg PICNIC IDEAS
Promotion I
, Adminiumhran a New 1 959 Edition! Complete
I Par/1019450,: I P I c N I c M A N A'-
Omar,
0”

Leagea FREE!

Stap wasting time recording inventory casts,
handing aut balls and paying tap prices for low
quality balls. Install this attractive, cast-cutting
TFT Table Tennis Ball Meter NOWI

“Let’s Have a Picnic!"

   

reach for. _ I

Program Aid I

NOTHING—But nathing builds better Pra-
grams and mare participation than Pra-
gram Aids. They are widely endorsed and
hailed as unique and unparalleled ar-

ganizatian and pramatian taals.

o ERASO' Pasters 8; Charts

0 SPOT AWARDS' Trophies 8; Cups

0 PLAYMASTER" Coaching Aids

0 SCORE-MING" Magnetic Scoreboard

O RECORD-MASTER*“HnII-oi-Fame“ Displays
0 Executive Scheduling Kits

me as urorr WRITE FOR CATALOG TO -—

THE PROGRAM AIDS 00., INC.

A GOLD MINE OF IDEAS FOR

' PRIZES ' THEMES
' FINANCING ' PLANNING

The bigger the picnic, the mare yau need
leased FREE ta responsible agencies an $10.00
depasit subiect to refund. Trouble-free aperatian
assured—return machine for FREE repair. Attrac-
tive hard waod and metal cabinet—7V2 x 8% x 15
inches high. Easy to install. Holds 120 balls—
dispenses each for 10¢. Choice of 3 grades at
tap quality balls. Use profit to maintain and re-
place paddles, nets, etc. No risk guarantee. Send
for free falder: "Stop Wasting Their Time."

T. F. TWARDZIK 8. (0.,

this baak. Widely accepted as mast cam-
plete, mast usefull

Prafitably used by hundreds af industrial,
city, schaal and ather recreatian leaders.

10 far 

In Canada, $1.50 each

ORGANIZATION SERVICES
8259 livernois, Detrait 4, Mich.

Postpaid  each

 
 

MORPOIATID

SHENANDOAH PENNA, Dept. R. 550 5th Ave... N. Y. 36, N. Y.

   

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

‘O

I;

I

I  h {30 .
a .
\fl

v “"-‘
\

. f.

q

I

1.
I
w:_ ,1

is

  
   

 

  

___—_'

 
  

 

OFFICIAL SIZE

TOP QUALITY POLYETHYLEN E

"...and it’s only  I"

COSOM

Fun FooIIIaII

THE ECONOMICAL PRACTICE BALL
for Indoor and Outdoor Passing, Touch or Flog Boll

BE SURE TO TRY THIS AMAZING NEW BALL

ASK YOUR SCHOOL SUPPLY DEALER FOR DEMONSTRATION

You will be delighted with the natural feel, the
ease and certainty of handling built into this new-
est SAFE-T-PLAY product. Even grade school
boys handle it deftly and pass with astonishing
precision. Fun Football definitely passes better than
the most echnsive balls . . . yet costs far less!

SAFE-T-PLAY design makes it safe for indoor
fun and practice.

FUN BALLS 0 SCOOP BALL 0

COSOM

MAY 105‘.)

OOBOM

SETH-HAM
“QOouO‘o

SAFE-T-BAT 0

INDUSTRIES, INC.

When writing to Mar advert—Tr" r-Ipase meniion li1'4'i“‘rtw‘*.

For touch or flag ball games, Fun Football is per-
fect . . . as it is for plays and teaching the. {rt of
passing. Only 9 ounces in weight . . . light enough
for small boys . . . yet it’s an amazingly durable
professional size. ball that meets high school .md
college standards. It's top quality 130011.159 it's a
COSOM SAFE-T-PI..\Y product: so at $2.00 it’s

really a bargain!

PEE GEE BEE 0 SAFE-T-MALLET 0 BOWLITE

6020 WAYZATA BLVD.
MINNEAPOLIS Io. MINN

It}

 

) PROPOSED CHARTER AMENDMENT de-
feated in Los Angelesl This amendment
would have transferred budgetary con-
trol from the recreation and park com-
mission to the city council. It was de-
feated, however, 209,725 votes against
and 129,829 votes for. A letter of pro-
test from Joseph l’rendergasl, executive
director of the National Recreation As-
sociation, played an important role in
its defeat.

} WANTED: If you print a local recrea-
tion publication regularly, p’case scnd
title, description, name and address of
person who prepares or edits it to: Oka
Hester, Parks and Recreation Depart-
ment, Greensboro, North Carolina. Mr.

     
   
   
   
   
       
     
     
       
     
       
   
   
 

DAVID SHEPARD, Purchase, New York
KENNETH CHORLEY, Hopewell, New Jersey
WARD E. DUFFY, Hartford, Connecticut
LLOYD E. PARTAIN, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
THOMAS J. ROUNER, Boston, Massachusetts
A. D. ALDRICH, Tallahassee, Florida

HARVEY O. BANKS, Sacramento, California
DEW/FIT NELSON, Sacramento, California
ANDREW J. BIEMILLER, Washington, D. C.
JAMES L. BOSSEMEYER, Washington, D. C.

Hester is chairman of a subcommittee
of the NRA’S National Advisory Com-
mittee on Recreation Publications, to
build a mailing list of local recreation
leaders who are concerned with publi-
cation problems.

) JUNE IS NATIONAL RECREATION
MONTII. Usc this month to do a com-
niunitywide interpretation of recrea-
tion to local citizens and expose them
to some of the activitics and interests
which can be enjoyed by them individ-
ually in their expanding leisure time.
Help them, literally, to find “New
\Vorlds Through Recreation.” Joscpll
Prendcrgast says: “Never before has
there bcen such a variety of exciting

0111mm, . . .

Joseph PrendergaSt, executive dirCCtor of the National Recreation Association
and Luther H. Gulick, of its board Of direCtors, are two members of the twenty-five-
member advisory council appointed to advise the Outdoor Recreation Resources Re-

view Commission, aS announced by Laurance S. Rockefeller, chairman of the com-
mission. Messrs. PrendergaSt and Gulick are bOth from New York City. ( For more
information about the commission, read Mr. Rockefeller’r article on page I 78 of this

issue.) The Other twenty-three advisorS are:

HORACE M. ALBRIGHT, New York, New York HARVEY BROOME, Knoxville, Tennessee

GILBERT F. \VHITE, Chicago, Illinois

A. D. BROWNFIELD, Deming, New Mexico
MRS. HAROLD CHRISTENSEN, Springeille, Utah
KENNETH R. COUGILL, Anderson, Indiana
DAVID L. FRANCIS, Huntington, West Virginia
IRA N. GABRIEL, Oakton, Virginia

PAT GRIFFIN, Fort Collins, Colorado

MRS. OvETA CULP HOBBY, Houston, Texas
CHARLES E. JACKSON, Chevy Chase, Maryland
JOSEPH E. MCCAFFREY, Mobile, Alabama
DWIGHT Fox METZLER, Topeka, Kansas

fields to conquer. In line with the spirit
of the new age, we hope that everyone
will find at least one new interest during
the June observance—whether it be
sailing, camping, astronomy, painting,
community service, or whatever.”

) IN PLANNING SUMMER PROGRAM for
senior citizens, don’t forget the publi-
cation Summer Is Ageless by Georgene
Bowen who is responsible for such an
excellent program in Philadelphia. This
tells how to go about planning camping,
day camping and in-city recreation for
our older citizens. It costs one dollar
and is available from the NRA Recrea-
tion Book Ccnter.

) YOUTII FITNESS is national fitness!
There are two National Youth Fitness
Weeks this year. The first, May 3 to
9, can act as a springboard to the Youth
Fitness Week of National Recreation
Month that falls in the first week of
June. Refer to your “June Is Rccreation
Month Kit” for ideas. Why not plan onc
big overall celebration of hoth—from
May 3 to June 8? Youth Fitness ls up
to You.

  

RECREATION

I
MAY 1959

   

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

 

 

 

   
 

Editor in Chief, JOSEPH PREbDEltCAaT r ‘
Editor, DOROTHY DONALDoUN C 0 N T E N l S
Assistant to the Editor, J BAN WACHTEL
Business Manager, RALPH C. Motttus GENERAL FEATURES '
ASSOCIATE EDITORS I
Recreation Administration, GEORGE BUTLER “Ol‘lbu‘rs” - - - 0" 1‘ TWO-Wily Sm‘cl (E‘lii‘lriul)
Program Activities, VIRGINIA Musseutm “my D'- -“""°" 1 ‘2
' Beginnings Are Important . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . 173
VOL. LII. Price 50 Cents .No. 5 .
Meeting Future Recreation Needs . Lmtraiice S. Rockefeller I78
_Hl the Cover Spotlight on Seniors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 181
FAMILY RECREATION. This picture is typical of t |
'wmmer recreation today, with families taking oll' Challenge in Chicago . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 185
for a vacation together in a state or national park
I'Ior forest. It was taken in Rogue River National
Forest. Oregon. Photo: courtesy Oregon State High-
way Department. ADMINISTRATION
me!“ M9". . o o I“ _ Planning Play Equipment . . . . . William Fretlerickson, Jr. 186
Among fresh and stimulating articles, Fight for
Y0!" Shoreline.” :1 symposium of current trends in Land for Living . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . W'illiaiii M. llay 188
regard to the disappearing recrcation areas along
+our waterlronts, is especially apt as we go into the Park mid Recreation Facilities
summer season. The speech by Joseph l’rcndcrgast, Part I: A l’oliey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19-1
in which he voices present-day challenges to recrea- , , _ , _
tion program planning, given at several district con, 1 art 11: I lanning l nrk and Recreation Areas
ferenccs this spring. will be iiicludcd. In line with Walter L. Scott 196
this will he an article, I“New York City and Music,”
with details of a citywide cultural program. There
will also be articles on “How to Get and chp Your
Parks.” by George Bell, commissioner of parks aml PROGIMDI
recreation in Toronto, Canada, “Start Your Plan-
ning with a Survey,” and on other administrative Tnlent Showcase for Shutins . . . . . . . . . . . John ll. l’eiiiiey 183
matters, including the relationship of program to- ‘ _
Ilmul and facilities, This issue will be the last “mil ‘ Iii MnSIe There‘s a Note of Hope . . . . . . . . . . Carol Lucas 18-1
September. ,, . u
. \\ heelmg Toward Fitness . . . . . . . . . . . . . Joliii IV. Newton 191
Photo Credits 0 O .
'Page 178, Cabor Eder, New York City; 182, Bum. Southern Seniors Give Service . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 192
more Evening Sim, Maryland; 185, (top) Fabian . , ,
Bachmch, (third from mp) Foster studio; 188, Ron Teenagers Act for Children . . . . . . . . . . . honey Eiclistemlt 197
Curliow, Mt. Vernon, Washington, 1955 National
High School Photographic Awards; 193, (right)
AI ert Kraus, Montgomcry, Alabama; 19-1, Massic, . .
Hissouri Iicsourccs Division. REGULAR FEATURES
Things You Should Know . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 170
RECREATION is published monthly except July and
AugustbytheNatiomlRccmtionlissociation.nservi<:e Letters  . . . . .  174
(\Jwr’gantéattgt; sgpporiclii'I by {Pluftirly c§nuibgtio:s,. It 8
“3n gaglic gghuzd giindcged i: mfg-'33:} Hospital Capsnles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Beatrice ll. Hill 198
Guide. Subscriptions $4.00 a year. Canadian and ior- . . . .
mgn subscrirdo-n are $4.50, Rama-ed 1; “(0.3141335 LIRSSIFICII Advertising . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
gnaeryApgi 23. 1350. If! {£116 Plostaoibscggin 11:: York.
cw or an er Ct o rt: , . ‘ '
   A  B  o o o o o n o o o o o o o o o I o o o o I o I o o o 
ion . Ct o o r , , nuthor'z Ma r ,
l,  LIicro51ms of current issues gvgila'ble Uni! Market ACH'S . . . . . . o . . . . . . . . o . o . . . . . . . Jean W081!!!” 
versity Microfilm, 313 N. First Street. Aoo Arbor.
MlChlm. Books, Magazines, l'nniphlets, and Magazine Articles . . . . 203
Space Representation: Mari: Minnhm, 185 North Wa-
bash Avenue. Chicago 1. Illinoil- New Publications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 204
Copyright. 1959. by ihc . . . . . . . . .
National Rccrutioo Association. Incorporated
Primed in the U.S.A. .o"—' 1-,
1 C DUCATIONAL
"'." '-  a E s s
. S SOCIATION Tho ortlcioi horoin prinlod on tho OlDfOl'
° Trade mark registered in U. 5. Patent Office. or item of tho writers ond not o itotomont ot

 

AMERICA . o o _ o . policy of tho Notional Iocrootloo Association.

'HM' 1959 171
I

 

“OLDSTERS”

. . . on a deWay Street

8 EVERAL YEARS AGO a good friend in our profession cau-
tioned me: “Remember, recreation is not something you
do to people, or for people but with people.” That simple
maxim made a lasting impression on me, and has heen a
valuable guide in my recreation programing with insti-
tutionalized oldsters.

At times, when I might have been tempted to impose my
ideas, methods, or systems more or less arbitrarily upon a
group, I have been brought up short by that wise voice.

While we are all cognizant of the important place of en-
tertainment in a recreation program, we are aware that too
often such activity offers little opportunity for other than
passive participation. A party, for examplc, sponsorcd and
brought into an institution by a generous group brings
momentary pleasure to the recipients; but the donors, alone,
eXpericnce the wonderful glow of satisfaction we all enjoy
when doing things for others. We believe, therefore, that
our institutionalized oldsters can also benefit from feeling
thc pride in accomplishment which comes from planning,
organizing, and carrying a project through to a successful
conclusion. we have learned that the domiciled veteran,
specifically, dceply resents always bcing on the receiving
end. Given the Opportunity, he would like to contribute oc-
casionally.

Four years ago thc Veterans 'Administration inaugurated
a “Planncd Living Program” in its seventeen soldiers’
homes across the nation. This was a revolutionary program,
in which the government repudiated its old concept of cus-
todial carc for domiciled veterans. autocratic in naturc, in
favor of a program encouraging democratic community
living. The emphasis was shifted from planning for to plan-
ning with individuals. The long-range objective was to
achieve the highest level of rehabilitation for each man.
The immediate objective was to show each man that the
domiciliary was not the end of the line, but a place where,
in spite of his infirmities, he would be given a chance to be
of service and an active contributing member of the society
in which he now resided.

For example, at one veterans home a man camc to our
office one day in October and said, “Every Christmas we re-
ceive so much here! Aren’t there some kids in.the com-
munity who might not be so fortunate?” We discussed this
subject at great length; and the upshot of the whole thing
was that he left a ten-dollar hill with us as the heginning of

 

MR. MUNCK is Special Services Coordinator. VA Hospital,
Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Remarks were made in talk given at
I958 NRA Great Lakes District Conference.

172«

4r

Planning recreation
for the aging
must include

both “give and take” . . .

Elroy D. Murle

a fund to provide a Christmas for youngsters who might
not otherwise have one. With thc approval of management,
he talked up the idea until, when Christmas came, the men
had contributed a total of $254 in cash to the fund, plus
gifts made in the arts and crafts and hobby s110ps at the
home.

The county welfare worker compiled a list of deserving
children. The men then formed a purchasing committee to
buy gifts and had the pleasure of wrapping, sorting, and
addressing the packages themselves. After all of the children
on the list had been provided for, there remained a few dol-
lars, so it was suggcstcd that they throw a party for first-
graders in a nearby school “just to have kids around at
Christmas.” This involved an entcrtainment committee and
stage show put on entirely by the members, one acting as
Santa Claus.

Almost everyone had participated up to this point. Am-
bulant members did the leg work and heavier jobs connected
with the project. Men confincd to wheelchairs wrapped and
tied gifts. Thc only fellows who had not taken an active
part wcre six hlind men. What could they do? Right here
one man came forward with a suggestion that would nevcr
have occurred to most of us: “Why not havc the hlind boys
act as guides-or escorts to the kids? They know their way
around here hctter than most of us.” The blind men were
approached, and they were thrilled with the chance to takc

part.

The planning of recrcation, then, becomes in reality a
two-way street in which we offer our professional leader-
ship to a group for their use in planning their own recrea-
tion program. They, in turn, contribute their own ideas and
experience to the evolution of an adequate recreation pro-
gram, conducted hy thc participants themselves.

Somctimes participation is a matter of long-term coaxing.
Take Mr. M., who is confined to a wheelchair. He is an
eighty-two-year-old Spanish War Veteran, a paraplegic
spastic, with blindness of the left eye, and generalized arter-
iosclerosis. In an initial interview, we learned that at one
time in the past he had an active interest in the violin and
folk music. Hc showed us his old violin quite proudly, hut
informed us that his fiddling days'were over. We asked him
to play us a tune but he refused. He apparently reckoned
without our pcrsistence hecause, whenever we encountered
him thereaftei', we would ask him when he was going to

play for us.

Finally one morning, obviously weary of our persistent

RECREATION

queries, he said “All right, if you want music, he in your
office Monday morning at nine o’clock and I will bring
some real musicians to play for you." And he was as good
as his word. He was .lohmiy-on-the-spot the following Mon-
day, accompanied by a friend who played a violin and an-
other who was and is an A-l pianist. These three held an
hour-long “jam” session in one of our small recreation areas
and, in no time at all. quite a crowd gathered. We supplied
a tape recorder and taped the session, to which they listened
after the program. At the end of the program we asked them
if they would like to do it regularly, .on a weekly basis, and
they were very enthusiastic ahout the prospect.

The next Monday they brought one or two more friends,
who played instruments or sang, and thus the program was
launched. Large crowds of fellow members have always at-
tended these “jams,” deriving a lot of enjoyment from see-
ing and hearing their friends perform and the “jam” has
become an important feature on the recreation schedule.
After about five months of this “jamboree,” as we called
it, we asked the boys if they would like to go on the center
radio system with the show. This required “producing” the
show, in a sense. lierctofore it had been pretty much of a
rough and tumble frce-for-all jumble; whoever showed up

was on the program. Now radio production formalized it
as to timing and scheduling, without detracting from the
informal atmosphere that had characterized the program
from the start. The tape recording we always made was used
as the hroadcast on the following day.

Mr. M. took on directorship of the show from the outset,
calling the two or more square dances, telling funny stories
and ringing an old cowbell he had commandeered from
somewhere. At this time, the “jamborce” is a well-estab-
lished activity and Mr. M. has displayed a vitality during
recent months that has called forth interesting comment
from the medical authorities. He has become a vital, con-
tributing force in his own small connnunity. He is an in-
spiration for many men years younger to join and to try to
do things—not for themselves alone but for others.

This is an example of what our aged citizens can ac-
complish and an example of an effective recreation activity
instigated and conducted by the participants themselves.
Let's not sentence any senior citizen to enforced coddling
and involuntary retirement. Let us help them live each day
to its fullest. We believe that life for these people can begin
the day they are introduced to and are incorporated into an
effective, recreation program. #

 

iBeginnings 04m qmportanrrw

 

When the National Kindergarten : s-
sociation was incorporated, in 1909,
one five-year-old out of every nine was
in kindergarten. Today, one out of every
two children of kindergarten age is in
school. In commemoration of its half
century of work, the association is spon-
soring a showing of art work by five-
year-olds. Over thirteen thousand pic-
lures have been submitted hy kinder-
gartcns in forty-five states. The show
is currently being shown at the Metro-

MAY 1959

politan Museum of Art, libraries, uni-
versities, and banks in the New York
City metropolitan area; but plans are
being made to circulate an exhibit to
other states next fall. Why not see if you
can get it for your town?

Regional differences in what children
paint and draw were not as great as
might have been expected. Children in
Alaska paint snowmen but so do child-
ren in California and Florida. As a sub-
ject, horses were almost as ubiquitous in
the East as in the West, although not ac-
companied by cowboys. And, every-
where, five-vear-olds paint houses and
Mommy and Daddy and the sun in the
skyand fire engines,as lhcyalways have.

Wrote one teacher from the Jcmez
Pueblo in New Mexico, “My beginners
enter school with no knowledge what-
ever of the English language so i stress
art as a means of communication and
self-expression. They draw upon their
own experience and the communal life
of the village, their religious ceremonies
and home life.”

From Sitka, Alaska, Mrs. Ada Scriv-
ner, kindergarten teacher, wrote, “One
of the kindergarten classes comes from

the nearby island of Mt. lidgeeomb.
They ride a bus to the dock, embark on
a boat to cross the channel, and take a
taxi to school.”

The pictures show that children not
only paint and draw the things they see
around them, but what is in their minds
and how they feel, as well. #11:

 

l?3

WRITE FOR
LITERATURE

 

momentum
DIVING BOARD

Worid’s Finest Ofticiai Board
Rugged Aircraft Girder Construction,
Unequaled in Design. Durability and
Performance by any board built today.

Exciusivo intornationai Distributors

p._ __.__ _._—______.f_

1

—./_—

 

AMERICAN

PLAYGRDUIID DEVICE CD.
ANDERSON, INDIANA. U.S.A.

Wall?" 1436? ' RANV‘AI "1211‘ 'F ' "‘tl.
PAIK P N P h if '1-. no as n'
Pitch AN ill. 'l», I - I  Jinn

Eliminate old fashioned
basket checking

REDUCE PAYROLLS

Modern. serve-self Sentinel Lockers
do away with old-style bags and
baskets. prevent pilfering and rid
you of the risk of custody liability.

Patrons like the improved serv-
ice, too. No standing in line, more
privacy and higher security for
clothes and other personal pos-
sessions.

Coin-and-key operated lockers
mean a big increase in your rev-
enue as well as payroll savings . . .
enough to pay for the investment
over and over again.

Now is the time to get the com-
plete Sentinel story . . . there‘s no
obligation. Write . . .

. ssnrttver.

'GOIN *‘AND - KEY

OPERATED CHECKING «svsrsus
THE FLXIBLE COMPANY

l

"4

 

LOUDONVILLE, OHIO

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

  

 

""i  Readers! You are invited to send letters for this page
to Editor, RECREATION, 8 West Eighth Street, Ne“
York 11—50 that your ideas, opinions and attitudes
may be exchanged with others on the wide range 0/
subjects of concern to us all. Here 'is your chance to
agree or disagree with the authors of our articles.
Keep letters brief—not more than 250 words.

“Ill-Considered Remarks”
Sirs:

In the March 7 issue of The Saturday
Evening Post Jerome Ellison. a profes-
sor of journalism at Indiana University,
wrote an article entitled “Are We Mak-
ing a Playground Out of College?” In
this inaccurate and distorted article, he
referred to our curriculum in recreation
as “. . . a curriculum which allows one
to become a bachelor of science without
ever having to study mathematics, lan-
guage, chemistry, physics, history or
science, but only things like volleyball,
archery, lacrosse, deep breathing, and
refereeing.”

The actual facts, as they pertain to
the school of health, physical education,
and recreation curriculum, are as fol-
laws:

0 Requirements in the various curricu-
lum options in the school of health,
physical education, and recreation in-
clude history, arts. sciences, mathemat-
ics, and humanities, and range from
thirty-seven to sixty-five semester hours,
depending on the particular currieululn.
This does not include required English
courses. or electives which are most
commonly taken in the arts and science
college.

0 Required science courses. in the va ri-
ous curriculum options, in health, phys-
ical education, and recreation range
over anatomy, physiology. kinesiology,
psychology, social scicnces. botany. zo-
ology, anthropology, and bacteriology.
0 Other requirements include courses
in business, economics, speech and the-
ater, journalism, education, and govern-
ment.

0 There are no courses in lacrosse and
deep breathing. Thc various curricula
do include some courses in the teaching,
coaching, and officiating of sports for
those students who are preparing to be
teachers of physical education and ath-
letics.

0 Recreation majors, the object of Mr.
Ellison’s ill-considered and inaccurate
remarks, are required to complete a
minimum of forty-nine semester hours

-—-—The Editors.

in the college of arts and science and
an additional fifty-nine hours, distrib-
uted among four other schools in the
university.
We want our professional friends to
understand the real truth.
ARTHUR S. DANIELS, Dean, School of
Health, Physical Education, and Rec-
reation, and GARRETT C. EPPLEY.
Chairman, Department of Recreation,

Indiana University, Blooniington.
* * *

Sirs:

You may wish to know that the ex-
ecutive committee of our state advisory
committee on recreation has passed a
resolution voicing opposition to the ar-
ticle for its false and misleading repre-
sentations of the recreation curriculum
of Indiana University. The resolution
praised our recreation curriculum.

Thc resolution was presented to the
Indianapolis Star and is being sent to
the editor of The Saturday Evening
Post.

Various letters are also being sent to
The Saturday Evening Post, including
one by the president of Ohio State Uni-
vcrsity. We feel that the article might
redound to the benefit of the recreation
curriculum of our various institutions.
provided we use the occasion to inter-
pret the objectives of our training pro-
grams to the public.

GARRETT C. EPPLEY, Chairman, De-

partment of Recreation, Indiana Uni-

versity, Bloontington, Indiana.
* * *

0 From Dr. Eppley's letter to The Set-
urdoy Evening Post:

Jerome Ellison grossly distorts the
facts about the recreation curriculum
at Indiana University in his article
“Are We Making a Playground Out of
College?” appearing in the March 7 is-
sue. He listed courses in our recreation
eurriculum not oIIered by the univer-
sity. He said no scienee was required of
our recreation majors, when they are
required to complete thirteen hours of
science. He implied that the recreation
curriculum eonsists only of physical-

RECREATION

activity courses. Our curriculum re-
quires eight semester hours of physical
education. out of a total of 12-1 hours
required for a [3.5. degree. Recreation
majors are required to complete a mini-
mum of forty-nine semester hours in the
college of arts and science and an ad-
ditioual fifty-nine semester hours, dis-

tributed among four other schools of '

the university. I suggest that the writer
Ellison take another glance at our cur-
riculum.

Years ago, students of the university
learned that the recreation curriculum
was not an easy one. A professor in the
college of arts and science informed me
that the recreation majors in his class
did better work atId showed a better
attitude than did his own majors. . . .
Our recreation graduates occupy posi-
tions of considerable importance
throughout the United States and sev-
eral foreign countries. While in the uni-
vcrsity, they worked under the guidance
of an unselfish and capable recreation
faculty. 0n the campus, our' students
ltold noncredit scIninar discussions, of
their own volition. . . . They are a whole-
some group of students, preparing them-
selves for challenging careers of service.

Never before in the history of the
nation has there been so great a need
for a leadership, which can motivate
pcOple to use their leisure wisely and
constructively. The recreation curricu-
lum is being constantly evaluated, in
an effort to produce professional lead-
trship to meet this need. Constructive
leadership is always welcome. . . .

o The Post replied that it is publish-
ing excerpts of the Eppley letter in the
April 4 issue. Dr. Eppley reports further
that the article has caused students to
take a strong professional attitude.
This is a constructive reaction. How-
ever, the Post article is one Of many in-
dications that, increasingly, recreation
-—and its place in today‘s expanding

Ileisure——needs to be carefully inter-
preted to the general public, both IO-
cally and nationally. Are you doinn
an educational job in your community?
Write tO us about itl

“R certs-010")”
Sirs:

  
   

l have read with much interest your
article “Let’s Say What We Mean,” in
he Fehruary issue of RECREATION.

We certainly do need a good word to

h L" . o o q . II. 9 .0 . - 9 U.
o as: .-*~. °.~."'~\1"-‘.'O'V: a». . .v.‘ r

Your

Doris T. Patterson  ,...,..,,‘.3,

III!"

If you plan to be among the millions of camping vacationers
in this country. this practical manual should be your first step—
whcthcr you have never camped before or are an experienced
camper wanting more fun and comfort on your next trip.

\Vriting specifically for the family that wants to camp, Mrs.
Patterson begins with you in the planning stage. Stressing simple.
inexpensive equipment. she tells what to take. how to take it. and
what to do with it upon arrival. There are recipes, illustrations,
maps. games. crafts—and a whole chapter devoted to taking baby
to camp in comfort and safety. Here is etrctytlting a famin needs
to know for an average camping trip.

In addition there is a valuable appendix with six suggested
tent tours and another which tells where to write for information
on state and national parks in the United States—including
Masha—and Canada.

Early June. Cloth, $2.50; paper, $1.50
At all bookstores

ABINGDON PRESS

Publisher of The Fun Encyclopedia and other tine recreation books

 

IMMEDIATE

DELIVERY ON - - - - - - C-R-A-F-T-S
FROM YOUR HANDY, CONVENIENT
CHOICE OF LOCATIONS

Hurry . . . place your order. with us now for your Summer craft
programs. Our three locations offer immediate delivery serVIce

 and a variety of crafts at. low quantity prices. Get your new

   
    
    
 

field of work that has less descriptive
words. I suggest that the word “recre- -
eulogy" be placed before every college ;
with a major or minor in recreation. .
cry state society, the National Recre- 
dion Association, and the American -
licercation Society. for their adOption. .

I assume the word must be used by
people in the business and by the public

define “what we do.” I know of no other i
l

U.S. FLAG free with your crafts order for $100.00 or more. Offer
expires May 10th, 1959. Only one to each customer.

Write For FREE Cataiog of Handicraft Suppiies!

CLEVELAND CRAFTS CO.

4707-] Euclid Ave. 4 East léth Strut 5832 Chlrago An.
ClEVElAND 3, OHIO NEW YORK 3, NEW YORK CRICAGO 5] , Ill. l

0 When You Think CRAFTS . . . Third: CLEVELAND CRAFTS '

 

 

HAY 1959 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 175

How Well—Qualified Are You to Teach

Swimming and Diving This Summer?

 

By DAVID A. ARMBRU-
STER, SR., M.A., Associ-
ate Professor of Physlcal
Education and Head
Swimming Coach Emerl-
tus, Unlverslty of Iowa,
Iowa Clty,‘ lo,- ROBERT
H. ALLEN, B.S., M.A.,
Heod Swimming Coach,
University of Iowa; and
BRUCE HARLAN, B.S.,
M.A., Diving Coach,
Universlty of Michlgon,
Ann Arbor, Michlgon.

New. 1958,
3rd Edition
373 Pages,
6” x 9",
Illustrated.
Price, $5.00.

 

Send No Money Now!

Order on 10430)!

Approvol

Complete This Coupon

Now

Deloch and Moi! it

Today!

The New 3rd Edition of

SWIMMING
AND DIVING

by Armbruster, Allen and Harlan

Can Enhance and
Update Your Teaching Skills

The well-qualified swimming coach, counselor and recrea-
tion leader is the one who keeps abreast of changing meth—
ods and techniques in teaching and conditioning his students.
This new Mosby book, written by three of the nation’s fore—
most collegiate coaches, is crammed full of a wealth of
practical information, well-integrated with clear, under—
standable “how-to-do-it” typc illustrations.

Only the new 3rd edition can show you:

r How to effectively teach 7 different strokes, including
the recently developed Armbruster resting backstroke.

r How to teach the new All-Stroke Iowa Method to be-
ginncrs, a method which eliminates the intermediate level.

- How to perform all the new dives, particularly the
competitive twisting and somersault dives: how the
Olympic champion, Bruce Harlan teaches and coaches
divers.

r All the importants aSpects of conditioning and training
swimmers for competition.

- How to conduct dual and championship meets.

r How to proceed in constructing swimming pools; gives
you a diagram for the pool, tower and diving board.

Described in a recent review in THE ATHLETIC
JOURNAL as “. . . the finest swimming book published,”
this new 3rd edition is a functional, easy-to-follow guide
that is guaranteed to improve your teaching methods. Still
skeptical? Order a copy on 10-day approval and see for
yourself. Do it right now.

|
The C. V. Mosby Company :
3207 Washington Blvd., S]. louis 3, Missouri I

Please send me on lO-day approval a copy of the new 3rd edition of

SWIMMING AND DIVING by Ambruster, Allen and Harlan, priced at $5.00. I
I understand that If I am not completely satisfied 1 can return the boakl
wlth no charge or obligation.

I__‘ Payment enclosed U Charge my account

(Some return privilege)

Name .
Address

City .. .. .. . . Zone State

”
e
U.
l
U.
'0

 

"Pronto Service"
with

PRONTO

SALES HANDIORAFT SUPPLIES

408 S.W. Second Avenue
Portland, Ore.

Creators of the famous

“Puzzle Blank"

You can make your own design

 

176

 

wlth these all-time favorite

SONG SLIDES

wonderful hours of tun for
young and old alike

soc/slide
Loo/slide

2" x 2” slides
3‘4 " x 4" slides

WRITE FOR CATOLOGUE 5

NATIONAL STUDIOS

42 West 40lh Street
New York 36, N. Y.

JUdson 2-1926

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

at large for considerable time before it
will be approved by the etymologists.
HOWARD D. MAST, Director, De-
partment of Recreation, Sujiolk,
Virginia.
It It *
Sirs:

Just finished perusing the February
issue of RECREATION and was keenly in-
terested in “Let’s Say What We Mean.”
This is very timely and let’s bOpe it will
produce some good results. How would
we proceed in having Webster’s, and
other dictionaries, utilize this new ter-
minology? I think it is time that we pre-
sent thcm with these terms and once
they are recorded in the dictionary they
become a matter of proper usage.

HAROLD D. MEYER, Chairman of Rec-

reation Curriculum, University of

North Carolina, Chapel Hill.

* * *
Sirs:

I would like to Obtain reprints of
“Let’s Say What \Ve Mean” by CK.
Brightbill. I am confident that the term
recreology will receive widespread rec-
ognition and consideration within and
without the recreation profession.
Therefore I would like to purchase sev-
eral hundred copies of the article, for
future distributing.

CARL E. RUUD, Cashmere, Washing-

£0”.

PartiaI Rebuttal
Sirs:

Rudolf Oppernlan [February] is a
perceptive and discerning fellow. Seems
to this observer there is relatively little
to rebut. . . . When he ties “positive
social, cultural, physical, emotional dc-
veIOpment to recreation purpose, be is
accurate and logical.Tbesc are not“con-
comitants.” however, nor “by-products,”
but the real stuff. Activities which pro-
vide these inurcments are basic, prime
requisites for normal health and wel'-
being—[be raisori d’étre of our voca-
tional being. “Inherent in recreation
experience”—ycs, indeed, if he means
the quality kind of recreation experi-
ence you and I sponsor and promote or
try to promote by means of our particu-
lar agency or organization, public or
private.

Why don’t we use these terms, valid
as they may be? One can only guess. A
vocational idiosyncrasy perhaps: “per-
s o n a l i t y deveIOpment,” “character
building,” “citizenship training,” “men-
tal health,” and so on are owned we fear.
by others; maybe “group workers,”
or the “educators,” or the “private
agencies” land they in turn think the
same way) .

Thus, we tend to strive for uniqueness
in purpose, methodology, and pbilo-
sopbical position, for identity, ade-
quacy, and strength as a group, for se-
cure knowledge of our professional role

RECREATION

in life. (ln short we act like people.) 
. . . some of us think that education is
owned by the schools, that group work
f process and method) is owned by the
private agencies, and that the term “rec-
' reation” is owned by the public urhan
* recreation agencies. We say recreation
H's “worthy” activity, confusing the field
with what we do as agencies and institu-
tions, not admitting that there is “good”
nd “bad” recreation. As Charlie
iriglttbill says, “Lets Say What We
can” [Fehruary]. But, one addition.
lease: make sure what we say has
leaning.
HAROLD G. Mvaoa, Director of
Recreation, Highland Park, Michi-

gan.

 
 
  
 
 
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
    
 
 
   
   
 
   
   
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
   
   
   
   

  

i'co-sa-he'dron a perfectly symmetrical
polyhedron possessing the ultimate number of
poles that can be placed on a sphere.

. It It *
trs:
l have enjoyed reading the RaVlJ. Right now...a battery of fully-automated. electronically-

' U , . a 1 controlled, high precision machines are placing a
. pp‘ffman art'Cle‘ all? lit er}: read b e, predetermined number of perfect icosahedron patterns to form
""9 )3 Cogent! 3" u 0 Common the carcass of every new Voit ball.

use (an uncommon sense these days). Combining the first manufacturing method to utilize
ha“? been readmg PLM'GROUND'REC' lcosahedron constructlon fundamental mathematics...a new. longest-wearing

EATION Magazine since 1909 ~—-- fifty means: composition cover. ..and a continuous testing program to

cars. some of Oppenmm‘S ideas I *6 Maxlmum carcass me proye the relsultseglgoilt has produlced the strongest, most
aught at the University of California etc Maxlnlum com- ma.- i’te'r ecu}, beam“, 3:51?“ buétft 5&1 smut“
n 1913-4, and they are still true and are complete structural to: Sggggggpicigt (18,352“: 0' es repre e
atent fa good word). unlformlty /—

J. E. Rooms, San Francisco, Cafi- ale Officlal performance 

fornia. for the Me of the ball

Recreation in Schools

Irs:

Selwyn Orcutt’s letter [January]
'oiced concern over the fate of recrea-
ion workers if schools eliminated rec-
tion activities during school hours.
lint schools offer regular physical edu-
ation classes only during school hours.
ey then offer a voluntary, extensive
creation program after school, Satur-
ays, and in the summer for youngsters
d adults under trained supervisors
alled community school directors. The
irectors report to Flint schools at noon
nd teach physical education classes
till 3 :30 PM. The schools then remain
pen until 10 PM. each night and the
irectors instruct junior-high students,
nagers, and adults in a wide variety
f recreation classes. . . .

The directors are able to teach tech-
iques in classes and can apply these
leories in practice after school and
tring the summer. This program has
eated a situation which often sees
ore people using the schools after
ours than during regular classroom
me. These recreation programs, as
-rt of the community school practice
Flint, have created additional johs
r recreation workers, while retaining
te conventional physical education
workers . . . thus provide expanded rec-
lion activities for the citizens of
int, without interfering with class-
om curriculum.

Fawn J. MANLEY. Director, The
Mott Foundation Program, Flint,
Michigan.

 

 

RUBBERIZED
PLAYGROUND

 

Savc your children the pain and dis-
comfort of bruiscs and contusions
suffered in falls on hard playground
surfaces. Saf—Pla is designed to give
childrcn "a bounce instcad of a
bump". It is the internationally
accepted Rubberized Playground for
a variety of surfacing applications.
Let us give you all thc facts and
figures on this safe, resilient and
economical playground surfacing.
Saf-Pla can be applied to black
top, concrctc or a good penetra-
tion basc.

   

llVrite for Literature
Bulletin No. l6

U. S. RUBBER RECLAIMING (30.. INC.
BOX 385 BUFFALO 5. N. Y.

1959 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 177

>
“i

Meeting
Future
Recreation

Needs

NATURALLY, as chairman of the National Outdoor Rec-
reation Resources Review Commission, I would prefer
to talk about its accomplishments; however, as our work is
just beginning, I can, of course, only speak of its plans.

In one of the earliest meetings it was agreed that, where
questions of opinion were expressed by commission mem-
bers in public, we would speak only as individuals in order
to maintain the commission’s objectivity. Thus, where I try
to Spell out the why, what, where, when, and who of the
commission, I shall speak as its chairman; when I go into
the underlying philosophy that must guide our thinking, I
will be speaking simply as an individual interested in our
nation’s recreation resources.

The title, “Meeting Future Recreation Needs,” is both
broad and ambitious, but no more so than the task set up
by the 85th Congress last year, when it established the Na-
tional Outdoor Recreation Resources Review Commission.

W ll 1’ ? In creating the commission, Congress and the Presi-
dent recognized that conservation for the physical, cultural,
and spiritual benefit of the American people is in a critical
period of transition as a result of new demands. The un-
precedented growth of population, the basic shifts of age
groups within the population, the increase in leisure time
because of shorter hours and earlier retirement, increasing
urbanization, and the tremendous strides taken in trans-
portation, all lead to the need for re-examination of our
outdoor resources and a new appraisal of our requirements,
not for just today, but, in the terms set out by the act es-
tablishing the commission, looking as far ahead as the year

2000.

WHAT? This is pretty plainly set forth in the establishing
act by Congress. Our task will be, in the words of the act:

To preserve, develop, and secure accessibility to all Ameri-
can people of present and future generations such quality and

MR. ROCKEFELLER is founder of the Conservation Fund; a
trustee of the American committee, International Wildlife
Protection; director of A merican Planning and Civic Associa-
tion; director, Hudson River Conservation Society; secretary,
Palisades Interstate Park Commission; and trustee and presi-
dent, Jackson Hole Preserve (Wyoming).

178

 

Laurance S. Rockefeller

quantity of outdoor recreation resources as will be necessary
and desirable for individual enjoyment, and to assure the Spir-
itual, cultural, and physical benefits that such outdoor recrea-
tion provides.

To inventory and evaluate the outdoor recreation resources
and opportunities of the nation, to determine the types and

location of such resources and opportunities which will be re-
quired by present and future generations.

To make comprehensive information and recommendations
leading to these goals available to the President, the Congress,
and the Individual states and territories.

WHERE? In the first place, possibly, we should define what

is meant by outdoor recreation resources, and for an ac-
eurate account I shall use the formal definition set out in
the act:

Outdoor recreation resources shall mean the land and water
areas and associated resources of such areas in the United
States, its territories, and possessions which provide or may in
the future provide opportunities for outdoor recreation, irre-
spective of ownership.

Outdoor recreation resources shall not mean nor include
recreation facilities. programs, and opportunities usually as-
sociated ‘ivith urban development, such as playgrounds, stadia,
golf courses, city parks and zoos.

 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
   
  
 
  
  

The commission’s evaluations and recommendations are
to be made on a state-by-state, region-by-region, and/or a
national basis. Needless to say, local and community re-
lationships must play an important role if the commission’s
objectives are to be achieved. As part of its work, it must
survey, analyze, and catalogue all existing outdoor recrea-
tion areas and, in so doing, the commission will keep in
mind both present and potential use. The scope of its opera-
tions will require it to determine the qualitative as well as
the quantitative recreation facility needs of the American
people.

Naturally, there has to be some general relationship be-
tween the amount of land assigned to specific recreation
purposes and the popularity of the purposes involved, but
this cannot be formulated on purely mathematical terms.
For recreation facilities and the need for them bear a di-
rect relationship to public health and other social consid
erations as well as to population growth .and concentration

In summation, the commission’s where covers the entir
nation, for means must be found to survey the nation an

RECREATIOI '

   
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
   
  
  
   
   
  
   
   
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
    

1 an address before the North American
ildlife Conference, New York City, March 4,
59, Mr. Rockefeller explained plans of the
v National Outdoor Recreation Resources

‘ 'iew Commission.

anee S. Rockefeller

' point available sites, irrespective of ownership or pres-
t use. Special attention will be given to new multiple uses,
are this is judged compatible with presently established
* s. Only in this way can a formula be worked out in which
can make recommendations, where indicated, to the fed-
al government, states, counties, municipalities, and pri-
. e owners, for the creation, management, and financing
fprescnt and planned recreation areas.

= HEN? By September 1, 1961, the commission has been

'ed to present a report of its review, a compilation of its
ta, and its recommendations to the President and Con-
ass. Act. 5.846 calls for the National Outdoor Recreation
: ourccs Review Commission to cease to exist not later
11 one year thereafter.

The present plan of the commission is to break up its
rec-year term roughly as follows: The first year to be de-
0 ed to an overall staff study and correlation of all avail-
le materials; the second year to developing conclusilins,
liey, and program; and the third year to completing the
rt and making recommendations. One quite obvious
ieulty facing a new commission such as ours is the ever-
.ent desire of interested parties for it to arrive at con-
ions before an objective study has been made. No doubt
great many special interests will, in all honesty, expect
e commission to take positive stands either for or against
= ding legislation, or in connection with areas where use
d protection may be in conflict.

With regard to other legislation which might effect rec-
tion areas and opportunities, it is the majority opinion
the commission that no recommendations should be made
it unless specifically requested by the Congress or the
sident. And it might be added it is our earnest hope
at such recommendations will not be required before the
. 'iew is far enough along to make them significant.

0? As you may know, the members of the commission
a responsibility, under the act, to coordinate its ob-
ivcs with various persons and activities. We have al-
ly spent a considerable amount of time on this problem.

v 1959

The commission, of which I am chairman, has fifteen
members. Our congressional contingent has four members
of the Senate: Clinton P. Anderson, Richard L. Neuberger,
Ilcnry C. l)wo':shak, and Thomas E. Martin, and four mem-
bers of the House: Harold R. Collier, Gracie Pfost, John
Saylor, and Al Ulhnau.

The other members of the commission are: Mrs. flalfdan
Lee, Samuel T. Dana, Bernard Orell, Joseph W. Penfold,
M. Frederik Smith, and Chester S. Wilson. These people
have long been identified with the broad areas with which
we are concerned.

The act calls also for the appointment of an advisory
council of twenty-five, to represent various Special interests
and geographic locations. To make sure that we would get
the ablest and most representative group available, we re-
quested recommendations for nominees from approximately
two hundred organizations and citizen interest groups. We
have received, to date, over five hundred nominations and
have reviewed each carefully. We will announce the names
shortly of those appointed to the advisory council. (See
page 170, this issue, for the members of the council).

Francis Sargent, former commissioner of natural re-
sources for Massachusetts, has officially started his tour of
duty as executive director to the commission. In various
positions, he has served under both Republican and Demo-
cratic governments in Massachusetts. He has been director
of marine fisheries, chairman of the Atlantic States Marine
Fisheries Commission, one of the three United States com-
missioners on the International Commission for the North-
west Atlantic Fisheries, and chairman of the Massachusetts
Water Resources Commission. That we were lucky to get
Mr. Sargent as executive director is attested to by the really
tremendous number of laudatory articles and editorials
which appeared in the newspapers of Massachusetts since
his resignation from his posts there.

A small but very capable staff is already at work at our
headquarters in the Regional General Services Administra-
tion Building, Washington, D. C.

We have been in touch with each of the thirteen federal
departments and independent agencies having a direct in-
terest in outdoor recreation and have requested the appoint-
ment of liaison oflicers from each. In every case, an under-
secretary, assistant secretary, or a director has been named
to work with the commission.

In the course of the commission’s life, we will wish to
coordinate our work closely with that being carried out by
individual states. Indeed, we plan to take into account the
problems and opportunities of outdoor recreation in each
state. To further this program, we have written to each gov-
ernor, requesting the designation of an official with whom
the commission can work. In addition, we will call on in-
dividual consultants and private consulting firms to the ex-
tent that they can enable us to get specific information as
needed, without having to enlarge our staff.

I should like to add a few personal observations about
the underlying importance of outdoor recreation resources:

Quite apart from the physical benefits resulting from out-
door aetivity, man needs outdoor recreation resources be-
cause it is through them that he is reminded that he is part

17‘)

of nature. There was a time, not too long ago, when such
reminders were not needed. Outdoors, natural beauty—
and natural hazards—were a part of everyday life. Indeed,
I fancy that there were a great many pe0ple, especially
among the early settlers, who then looked upon nature as a
constantly threatening force, ever to be pushed back.

W hen the pioneers had no new lands to conquer, when
people started moving from isolated farms to small towns
and then to urban centers, our relationship with nature
underwent great change. As we became less fearful of the
forces of nature and more mindful of the pressures of civil-
ization, we began to seek solace in our former foe. Thus.
the need for outdoor recreation resources became estab-
lished. Rccognition of this need has tended to grow propor-
tionately with the increasing urbanization of our country.

The United States, despite having been a forerunner in
the establishment of national and state park systems, is on
the whole ust beginning to wake up to the vital importance
of recreation. We are beginning to recognize that outdoor
recreation—as a healthy, satisfying, and often creative use
of leisure ti1ne-——has evolved from a luxury of the few to a
necessity of the many. \Ve must recognize also that sports
promotion, travel advertising, and the commercial use of
outdoor arcas and attractions have all played a part in ac-
centuating the demand for outdoor facilities.

To meet these demands, I think they must be approached
on threc fronts: federal, state, and community. Great strides
have alrcady been made, but I feel much remains to be done
——particularly in the third area. Recreation problems at the

CDNSIILTATIDN
PLANNING

and -

DESIGN . . .
 Of All Your

Recreation Facilities

 

 

 

- Ice Skating Rinks
0 Swimming Pools

0 Field Houses

0 Tennis Courts

Creative development of entire recreation areas,
backed up by years of experience (84 swimming pools, rinks.

and other facilities.)

PETER CARVER ASSOCIATES

70 East 45th Street

New York 17, New York

180

 

community level are particularly important because there
are fewer answers and greater pressures. An editorial in
The New York Times mentioned, in this connection: “Our
city and our suburbs need more parkland, not less . .
There would be a willing buyer, industrial, commercial, or
residential, for every piece of parkland in the metropolitan
area if government were willing to sell out. Our suburbs
are for the most part poor in public recreation areas. They
cannot spare an acre.”

\Vhilc this editorial was referring to the situation in New
York, it could apply to most of our large cities throughout
the United States:

511 m mation

Unollicially, I would like to recapitulate as follows:
0 The commission expects to serve as a clearinghouse

of information and ideas.

0 Its review will cut across all areas and all activities
dealing with land use.

0 Its purpose is to anticipate needs and prevent shortages
in our natural recreation resources.

0 Its work is already in progress; its findings will be
made available in 1961; its responsibilities are to tomorrow
as well as today.

I The commission recognized that outdoor recreation re-
sources are something in which every one of us has a stake.

I The goal of the commission will be to reflect the needs
and aspirations of the entire national community. #

Yes, in summer only
you con moke thot much
profit. One of the big
items is Sno-Kones or
Ice BoIls.

You sell them for 10c
ond moke 8c profit. Mo-
chine ond supplies cost
less thon $200.00. No
money down, poy out
of profits os you eorn.

&

Sno-Konette
Ice Shaver

$149.50.

 V‘— Write for

brochure and
sUppIy cotolog.

RECREATION SUPPLY DIVISION

GOLD MEDAL PRODUCTS CO.
302 E. Third St, Cincinnati 2, O

 

RECREATION

 

Spotlight
on
SENIORS

Recreation is an extremely important aid
to growing old gracefully. People who
stay young despite their years do so be-
cause of an active interest that provides

satisfaction through participation.
—William C. Menninger. M .D.

THE semoa CITIZEN is being studied
from many foeal points and by
many agencies at the present moment.
Our older population is the subject of
many research projeets, designed to
find the answers to the many needs of
those over sixty-live—an ever-inereas-
ing segment of our population.

The senior citizen himself can take
an aetive part in this researeh. \Vitness
a pilot project on modified physieal
education for aging persons being eon-
ducted by Sargent College and the
Brookline, Massachusetts, Golden Age
Cluh and recreation department. The
survey will study the elleets of exercise
on members of the elub and ascertain
what could have been done earlier in
their lifetimes to improve their physi-
eal fitness. Brookline was chosen be-
cause of its large percentage of resi-
dents sixty years and over. Evelyn M.
Kirrane, recreation supervisor in Brook-
line, will help supervise the project.

In Milwaukee, Wisconsin, the reerca-
tion department is offering a new course
in family-life education to help men and
women with a third generation in their
families. The department feels that, as
older retired persons make their home
I with or near their children, prohlems
sometimes develop which understanding
I eould prevent or minimize. Some of the
subject matter eovered in five sessions

HAY 1959

inelude: the three-generation family
(today and when grandpa was a boy) ;
understanding behavior ehanges that
aeome with the years; understanding
older persons’ needs; understanding
family interaetions; and using commu-
nity resources. The course also uses a
film, A Plan. to Live.

Volunteers in Paterson, New Jersey,
spent the month of February interview-
ing a wide eross-seetion of Paterson’s
residents sixty-live and older to see how
a community ean measure the needs of
its older eitizens. It is antieipated that
the current survey technique will serve
as a model for determining the needs
of the older population in suburban,
rural, and other urban areas of the state.
The survey is under the supervision of
the division of aging of the state health
department and is sponsored by the
Paterson Mayor’s Committee on Serv-
ices for the Aging. The state depart-
ment of institutions and ageneies is giv-
ing teehnieal assistanee. Among other
questions being asked are: In good
weather are you able to walk outdoors?
Do you have opportunity to meet other
people of your own age? Depth inter-
views of a seleetcd sample of older peo-
ple will be eondueted by Albert Elias.
a sociologist presently serving as di-
rector of a group therapy center for de-
linquent youth at Highfields, New Jer-

 

sey, with the assistance of graduate
students of Rutgers University who hold
internships in the department of insti-
tutions and ageneies.

The recent announcement of a White
House Conference on Aging, to be held
in 1961, has Given new impetus to re-
search 011 senior eitizens throughout the
eountry. The National Committee on
the Aging of the National Social Wel-
fare Assembly will step Up its produc-
tion of booklets on the senior citizen
during 1959. The committee will also
produce and distribute a guide on com-
munity organization of programs.

The National Committee on the Ag-
ing is also rounding up material for a
nationwide survey of senior-citizen een-
ter and elub programs in order to es-
tablish national standards in this area.
The projeet is financed by the Frederick
and Amelia Sehimper Foundation, and'
a preliminary list of eighteen hundrcd'
senior citizen elubs and centers has been:
eonlpiled. "

The Age Center of New England. es-
tablished in Boston four years ago, has
been conducting research on normal;
independent aging people and now has
seven hundred members. No age limit
was set for admission. As Dr. Robert T.
Monroe of the center says, “Some peo-
ple find themselves aging in their late
forties. more in their fifties, but, of

181.

course, most of our members are in
their sixties, seventies, and eighties.”
The center conducts structured inter-
views in every phase of the senior citi-
zen’s present and past life: illnesses,
health. education, housing, vocations,
avocations, recreations, and attitudes.

A model community for older per-
sons was the official state exhibit at the
state fair in Syracuse, New York, last
year. It was devoted to showing senior
citizens how they may spend their later
years, aided by state programs. Exhibits
ranged from a model nursing home to
old-time movies. In a model apartment
visitors walked over nonskid floors, ob-
served strategically placed handrails.
The state education department pro-
vided a model recreation center, the
commerce department showed how to
turn hobbies into second careers, and
other departments explained their serv-
Ices.

Housing for the Elderly

One of the most interesting develop-
ments in housing for the elderly is Pres-
bytcrian Village on tlle outskirts of De-
troit, dedicated in 1955 and operated
by the Presbytery of Detroit on a thirty-
two-acre site, much of it still woodland.
Surrounding the village are residential
areas, a grade school, and a golf course.
The master plan envisions a completed
villagecof‘some seventy-five huildings,
including individual homes for couples
able to own and maintain them, apart-
ments for couples capable of living in-
dependent lives, and a community
house for those living alone. "

To qualify for the village an appli-
cant must be sixty-five or older; ages
of current residents range from sixty-
seven to ninety-three, with an average
of eighty. To date, the project has been
financed through individual gifts and a
donation from the Detroit Metropolitan
Capital Gifts Fund. In addition, each
Presbyterian church is assessed one dol-
lar per member, for the support of the
village and for retiring the mortgage.
Total cost of thevillage when completed,
estimated at today’s prices, will be be-
tween six and seven million dollars.

“Our goal,” says the manager of the
village, “is to help older pe0ple continue
to lead an active and interesting life. . . .
We offer a variety of programs for them,
but attendance is optional. Strangely

182

enough they have asked me to cut down
on activities because they don’t want
to miss anything, and they can’t take
them all in.”

The Jewish Family Service Agency
in San Francisco has an experimental
housing project for older persons where
the rent includes one hot meal a day. A
similar project is operating in New
York City. The Milner Hotels Manage-
ment Company of Detroit has an-
nounced it will spend two million,
to convert somc twenty-five of its two
hundred hotels in a hotel chain of resi-
dences for the aged.

Senior Leaders

 

I.

Top spinning caught on like wildfire when
oldsters offered to instruct the youngsters.
Here, Mary Preston, the president of a
golden-age elnb givesthem c.\'pert advice.

Senior citizens may not he what they
used to be but neither is t0p spinning,
reports Virginia S. Baker of the Balti-
more, Maryland, Dcpartment of Rec-
reation and Parks. This was discovered
last spring, when the recreation bureau
decided to hold a top-spinning contest
during National Recreation Month.
Miss Baker says, “There was plenty of
interest but no skill. When the leaders
introduced the wooden spheres to the
children they asked ‘What are they?
Where do you huy them? May we try?’
After scouting the city, a few tops were
found and they did not come with the
cord with a button on one end. . . . The
Golden-Age Club heard about the t0ps
and very soon ladies and gents alike
came to teach the youngsters how to op-
erate the tops. These folks, sixty-five and
over, were as excited as the youngsters.

Top Spinning caught on as one of the
park’s most popular sports within three
days after it was introduced. The tops
were so rare they had to be locked up
and checked in and out. Time for use
had to be limited.”

Apparently if you were to ask these
oldsters where they went when they were
children they would say, “Out.” But if
you asked them what they did, the an-
swer is, “Spin a t0p.”

How Oldsters Can Help

Time was when the elders of the tribe
were the chief source of wisdom and
decision. Now the accumulated ability
of men and women who have prepared
themselves by training and experience
for their mature years is often shelved
by firms at some arbitrary age like
sixty-five, without consideration of
physical and mental capacity.

Every community has problems with
which these senior citizens, or a good
many of them, can help. It is true, of
course, that a relatively few older citi-
zens are constructively active in local
civic organizations. More could, and
should be, and specific ways can be
found to make them useful.

Take, for example, the ordinances of
any community. Mostly they are en-
forced on the basis of the wheel that
squeaks the loudest gets the grease.
Rarely, if ever, is competent attention
given to the propriety of leaving extant
the ordinance providing how the new
mode of horse car transportation shall
be handled. Everyone is too busy de-
ciding how a television tower shall be
erected or how planes shall proceed
over the city.

I propose that each local civic or-
ganization create a committee of senior
citizens to discover the ordinances that
have earned their right to retirement.
In places where there is no such or-
ganization, a mayor or city council can
appoint an advisory committee of citi-
zens. These committees would, with
much nostalgia and not a little amuse-
ment, sort out the wheat from the chaff.
Next, they could point out those whichI
might be revised, dramatized, or pub-
licized—Reprinted with permission,
from an editorial by F. E. Schulman,

Pittsburgh civic leader, in National
Municipal Review, October, 1958.

RECREATION

A teenage-elderly activity

that warms twice . . .

Talent
Showcase
for Shutins

John B. Penney

Acrth ON THE suggestion that the
recreation department bring its

rviecs to shutins, Lorraine Fournier
created a program for them, built
round a group of talented teenage cn-
tertainers. Miss Fournier is supervisor
of women’s and girls’ activities, in the
Concord, New Hampshire, parks and
recreation department. This activity,
like splitting your own firewood, warms
twice. The elderly shutins received en-
tertainment and warm contact with
young people, and the young people par-
ticipated in a recreation activity and
ined the warmth of the shutins’ ap-
preciation.

  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
   
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
      
  
   
     
   

The group started with one junior-
high-school girl who reSponded to a no-
ice about the start of the showcase,
and who was particularly talented and
became very enthusiastic. She spread
the word and soon incorporated two
other classmates into the program. Then
two girls from the parochial high school
also indicated their interest. This small
a ut talented group of five girls rehearsed
and perfected their acts under Miss
ournicr’s direction. The act included
onologucs, solo and duet song num-
rs, and community singing. A list of
places to visit was obtained from the
tale social welfare department and the
ate mental hospital services depart-
I ment. The old-age homes in the city

welcomed the girls enthusiastically, and
II. c project was launched.

   

I

  
 

However, difficultics arose when the

  
  
    
 

OHN B. PENNEY is director of the recre-
. tion and parks department, Concord,
ew Hampshire.

  
 

   
 

I
11959

 

entertainers visited nursing homes. In
these, people cannot he gathered togeth-
er in one room but are spread out all
over—many confined to their beds.
Time was too short to get to all of the
people, since the girls were picked up at
school and taken directly to the homes,
arriving about 3 :30. Nursing-home pro-
cedure calls for visitors to lcavc at 4:30,
and this left one hour for the program.
Soluticin of this tight scheduling
problem came from the local civil air
patrol group, composed of high-school-
age youngsters, who had heard of this
service project. Miss Fournier called a
joint meeting and selected five of their
members to come with the showcase as
visitors. While showcase members per-
formed to the largest group in the living
room, the civil air patrol traveled from
room to room, chatting with the pa-
tients and explaining the progrgm. Be-
fore long, it was discovered that the vis-
itors had talents of their own, including
those of an accordionist and drummer.
Now the showcase had ten performcrs,
thus providing more variety and allow-
ing plenty of time to visit everyone.
Miss Fournier acted both as mistress
of ceremonics for the showcase and, in
a wider capacity, as a provider of rec-
rcation to the shutins. Her purpose was
to help them forget about themselves
and find other interests in the world
about them. She has told them about the
Sunset Cluh, the recreation depart-
mcnt’s senior citizcn organization, with
its opportunities for companionship and
appropriate programs; she has demon-
strated simple craft projects and games;
and she has led them in group singing.

Sometimes the shutins’ reaction, dur-
ing a visit, was completely negative; the
oldsters would not applaud or say a
word. This reaction was trying for the
young performers who did not under-
stand senility. However, in the next
week following the performance, cards
and letters of thanks would pour in, ex-
pressing appreciation for the show and
requesting a return visit.

The Talent Showcase visited two old
people’s homes, the county old-age
home, ten nursing homes, four rest
homes, and four wards in the state hos-
pital, all in Concord or its closc vicin-
ity, during the first year of Operatic'm.
The company has grown to twenty and
meets regularly every Monday after-
noon, for rehearsal or visits.

In addition to the showcase, two other
department groups visit shutins. The
Junior Chorus, for elementary-school
girls, devoted its Christmas caroling
last year to shutins. Then, the senior
citizens group became aware of the
large number of their members absent
because of illness. The Sunset Club
Newsletter was born, to keep these mem-
bcrs informed of club doings. One meet-
ing day was devoted to personal visits
to shutin members and delivery of the
first issue of the Newsletter.

Sunset Club members who went visit-
ing that day cnjoyed themselves vcry
much. Again, the thank-you letters
poured in, indicating the degree of ap-
preciation on the shutins’ part, for
brightening their lives. Here was rec-
reation, in its true sense, both given and
received. :,‘,."

183

 

 

Carol Lucas .
ance at rehearsals has averaged about eighty per cent, over

four ears—a re a ka l or f '
I grow 0M . O O I grow old 0 . O y. m r be figure, considering the ages and
long distances traveled in bus and subway by some of the
I shall wear the bottoms of my trousers rolletI. b
. . inein ers.
Shall I part my hair behind? Do I dare to eat a peach? . , . ,
‘ . To encourage membership, regulations are quite simple.
I shall wear tchtte flannel trousers and walk upon the beach. , , ,
. . . Applicants must be sixty or over and are requ1red to attend
I have heard the mermaids singing each to each. ,
. . . rehearsals regularly. If they are abscnt four consecutive
I do not thch they will stng to me. . .
times, they must have a valid reason. Members must pay
. . . . . . a lift r-ceiit de )osit on their in si note 0 th a e -
N THESE poetic lines of desperation, T. 5. Eliot has vivid- , 3 , I   ho ks’ , us, cc pi
. . ing a certain amount of responsibility for materials in their
ly reflected the attitude, apprehension, and deep concern

hands.

of a person facing old age without hope. In 1917, however, Since 1954 [he Sinaina Seniors (the younaeql of whom
9 o D D ’”

when these lines were written, the struggle for survival was

. . . . . is sixt '-five the eldest eioht mine have had 196 rehearsals.
harder than it is today. We are rapidly becoming a nation ) ’ . O y ) » i , ‘
. ‘ . . 40 concerts at various homes and day centers, and radio
of older people. As man and seience march on in their con-
, , appearances. They have also performed on the Carry Moore
quest of disease, the ratio of older people grows larger each I, r t S t a d h r d f A 1
car.¢>ince1900 the over sixt '-five 0 iulation in the United ve ’0 a ecre procram an l e no“ 6 [met r we
3: h .’ . i y p I . Francis IIome show on TV. They take great pride in their
btates has multiplied fourfold. At the moment fifteen mil-

work, under the professional direction of conductor Rhys

lion ieo le aiiroximatel ' one-tenth of our onilation. .
I p ’ H i p I Morgan and accompanist Ruth Coe.

are sixty-five years or older, with an estimate that, by 1980,
one out of every seven of the nation’s pe0ple will be over
sixty-five.

One can readily see the need for definite and positive
programs in the field of geriatrics, not based solely on the
concept of security for the aged, but, more importantly, on
programs that create for the older citizen an atmosphere
of creativity and belonging. Dr. William Meniiinger has
stated that “people who stay young despite their years, do
so because of an active interest that provides satisfaction
through participation.” Of immeasurable importance also

is the knowledge that, in addition to the fear of loneliness . . .
. . . niumty center, church, or board of education, under its
and isolation brought on by passing years, the older person

, , , adult education program. These groups can either sponsor
experiences a far greater need for recognition and self-ex- . . . .

, the entire pI'OJCCl, meet spec1al expenses, or donate music
presswn.

supplies. 0

The marked success of the Singing Seniors program, and '
the ease with which such a program was implemented, pro-
vided the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies and
Musicians Emergency Fund with vital new material for geri-

Organization

The first steps are to find a group of interested people,
secure a inecting place, and the services of an experienced
conductor and an accompanist. Volunteer leaders can often
be secured from the ranks of local choir directors, music-
school teachers, hoard-of-education band conductors, or
perhaps, qualified, interested citizens. Although the group
may start with a limited membership, enthusiasm generated
by word of mouth and local publicity will usually recruit
applicants. Initial cost can be defrayed by the local com-

Fully aware of these needs, the Federation of Protestant
Welfare Agencies, in cooperation with the Musicians Emer-
gency Fund, has specifical'y designed a program to provide
the aging with an opportunity, not only to participate in

communit activities but also to erform in one of the artis- . . . .
, , y , , ’ E , , , ., , atric programing. In this program, the federation and fund
tic media. The Jointly sponsored Singing Seniors’ 15 a glee

, , , , have combined all of the elements needed—reco nition,
club that was organized in Rew York City, in l\ovember, l . h. If . g f
1954 approva, companions ip, se -expression—to create or

, , , , , the aved an o )ortunit for an interestinv and meaningful
Membership is limited to forty people and at present in- exiqlgwe p} y o

' I
Cindi? homes for the aged and gelden age Chlhs m the com ln our struggle to eliminate the emptiness and the spirit- I
munity. Though members meet once a week for rehearsals

, , ual bankruptcy that can quite easily accompany our later
at a Manhattan church, the group is nonsectarian. Attend- years, it is encouraging to know that such groups exist. It
————-————___.____..________________________

DR. LUCAS is recreation consultant, Division on Aging, Fed- is Will] “1011 Programs that our tW‘lighl Years can we" be' I
eration of Protestant Welfare Agencies, New York City. come our “golden years.” #
184

RECREATION

  
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
 
   
   
 
    
 
   
   
   

CHALLENGE

From September 28 to October 2, 1959.
the recreation held faces the challenge of
today ’s leisure, at the 4 1 st National Recrea-
tion Congress. CAN YOU AFFORD T0 MtSS er?

I. ,

HERE are serious challenges to be faced in Chicago this
fall, and every recreation person—professional or vol.
un‘gpcr—will be needed there. " "'

One big‘ area of concern to the recreation field today is
that of educating the general public as to what recreation is
and its current relation to life. Recreation leaders must in-
terpret its impot‘lf'anee to science;government, fitness, hu-
man relations, peace. Recreation has a great contribution
to make to the understanding of nations, not only through
sports but even more important, the cultural arts. Educa-
tion-for-recreation and the creative use of leisure—these
are the words that must be heard throughout the land, at
every level, local, state, and national, so that the term ree-
reation is understood and becomes comfortable and familiar.

It must be known that the recreation field serves everyone,
from the child playing spaceman to the retired executive,
from the housewife to the college professor. We must help
everyone find new frontiers of living for his expanding lei-
sure time. The “how” must be explored and must be the
thread running through all Congress sessions.

Another area of our concern is that of the strategy to
be used in defending recreation areas from encroachment,
and carmarking them for the future, in the face of the

alarmingly rapid p0pulati0n increase and our innate need of
natural areas for spiritual refreshment.

Still other concerns are the increasing demand for new
dimensions in program and the need for ever-new tech-
niques and ingenious ways of recruiting new personnel for
our growing profession.

The big, overall challenge is, of course, the forward look
--the willingness and ability to make any drastic but neces-
sary changes in our thinking, future and present.

“N0 Man Is an Island”

Do you need the backing of your profession in your work
with your community or agency, the stimulation of exchang-
ing ideas and techniques with your recreation colleagues,
the support of your own team? Have you any problems?
Are you interested in doing the best possible community
job? Do you want to increase your own professional sta-
urc? Does your community, agency, club, look to you for
he newest and most effective methods of recreation lead-
rship? If so, you need your national meeting—just as it
reeds you. Come, and bring community folks with you.
‘our board members, bosses, volunteers, people from other
ocal agencies concerned with today's youth, the family,

as 1959

   

IN CHICAGO 1'

 

 

Congress “Big Three"

Joseph Prendergast, executive director
of the National Recreation A ssociation,
is chairman of the Congress this year.
He points out there is a rapidly in-
creasing demand throughout the country
for new dimensions in program planning.
a real challenge to the recreation field.

Charles B. Cran/ord, deputy commis-
sioner of recreation in Philadelphia and
president of the American Recreation
Society, is vice-chairman and has been
active in the drawing up of the five-year
agreement with the National Recreation
Association for Congress sponsorship.

Jesse Reynolds, director of the depart-
ment of recreation and parks in Rich-
tnond, Virginia, and president-elect of
the A RS, is the hardworking chairman of
the 1959 Congress program committee.
All program suggestions should be chan-
neled to this committee. Forward ideas!

“Among Our Hosts

George T. Donoghue is general superin-
tendent of the Chicago Park District and
responsible for overall leadership of its
program. He has been directly involved
in coustruction of the lake-front parks
which led to the reclamation of more
than I .000 acres fronting Lake Michigan.

Vernon F. Hernlund, director of recrea-
tion for the Chicago Park District, will
address the Congress institute of A dmiu-
istrators on planning as an administrative
function. He has been a very active mem-
ber of the National Committee for A ma-
teur Baseball and the A. B. Congress.

Arthur L. Schultz. director of the Park
District Division of Public ln/ormation
Service, is actively engaged on several
Congress committees. He has been with
the district for over twenty-five years,
is in a position to relate problems of
physical plauning with those of program.

anybody else who would benefit. This shared experience
will help you understand each other, do a better local job.
There will be something at the Congress for all.
Photographs of some of the men who are doing some-
thing about the Congress right now are on these pages.
What are your plans in relation to the annual meeting in
your chosen field? Only through active cooperation, one
with another, can we best help all people to find and un-
derstand “recreation in an carpanding leisure.” #-

185

 

Every new idea is tried out. Here, a youthfui “wrecking crew" prores
that this is good equipment. Treadmii! is equipped with a speedometer.

 

James Mitcheil, employeeof the recreation and park department, den:-
onstrates his miniature basketbaii backstop which goes up and down.

PLANNING PLAY EQUIPMENT

.mm'rv AND [arenas'rmc DESIGN in play equipment
\ / are as important to youngsters who patronize neigh-
borhood recreation centers as professional supervi-
sion at the playgrounds is to their parents, and the task of
providing and developing new equipment for use at facili-
ties operated by the Los Angeles City Recreation and Park
Department is a continuing job.” involving the efforts and
cooperation of many people from several of its divisions.
Some new equipment is. of course, purchased from com-
mercial firms. But every new piece of apparatus gets its
supreme test before it is acquired in quantities. It is placed
at one playground where youthful “wrecking crews" soon
prove whether or not it will stand up under “normal” usage.
Much of the apparatus now installed in Los Angeles Inu-
nicipal playgroumls has been developed by the recreation
and park department's Recreation Improvement Committee.
This committee, headed by Chairman Ralph Borrelli,
director of special events, includes representatives of the
department’s Development Shop; Construction Headquar-
ters, the \‘Iaintenancc Division: and the Planning and En-
gineering Division, as well as a senior recreation director
and a recreation director.
Every new idea -whether it is the brain-child of a play-
ground director, a maintenance division employee, or a
construction worker, or is planned by the committee itself

*See Ream \TIUN, May 1956, p. 224.

MR. FREDERICKSOIN is superintendent of recreation in Los
A rzgeies, Caii/ornia.

186

———=is thoroughly tested before it is developed and placed in
service.

When the Recreation Improvement Committee decides
that a new idea is feasible, it is turned over to the depart-
ments Development Shop.

Frequently, the Development Shop makes up a miniature
model and works with it, making modifications and im-
provements, until the bugs are eliminated. Then, before
the department accepts it for citywide use, one working
model is built and placed at a recreation center, where our
children put it to the acid test. If it holds up and meets
standards of safety, usefulness, and interest, it is approved.

Mass production of new equipment is sometimes under-
taken by the recreation and park department’s shops, and
sometimes by firms which bid for the jobs. In any case,
every piece of apparatus in use at Los Angeles municipal
playgrounds is subjected to rigorous scrutiny by experts be-
fore it is turned over to our children.

However, the work of the Recreation Improvement Com-
mittee is not confined solely to the development of new
playground apparatus. At the present time the Development
Shop is designing new family picnic areas, and is under
orders to make them “different from anything seen or heard
of before, and attentive to the imagination and interest of

patented users.”
It is almost a certainty that the Development Shop staff

will face these new problems, or tasks, with a continuing ef-
fort to provide interesting and functional new equipment

for the patrons of municipal facilities. #

RECREATION

“Every new piece of

equipment receives the

!

supreme test . . .’

\‘c'illiam Fretlerickson, Jr.

c-""‘

Doc Hantiey, also a stag member of the Los Angeies Run-otion nnd Pnrk Department’s den}-
opment shop, is working on the mode! of a proposed picnic area to Ientarr 0 Western motif.

{a
’1-

It. ii
It"

Remembering dnys of fan, jumping nnri sliding in a hnylott, an em
pioyee come up with the suggestion for the above piay apparatus.

r.

This shark was made from a st-limged poratrane, a den-im- dragged
under water by boots to rat mines from. rabies. Here’s ingenuita.’

An octopus rocker seems to hold up we” daring prneticniiy constant

The Lots Angeies pinygroands have the on!) two siiries ot this type-
trini on part of enthusiastic young riders. No “bags” in this one!

in existence. Manned to be “digrrent,” this one is inrger of the two.

 

Praise be than, my Lord, for our sister,
Mother Earth

Who sustains and governs us,

And produces various fruits with colored flowers
and herbage.

——-The Canticle of the Sun, SAINT FRANCIS.

made the greatest beachhead in the history of our
earth, was finding land for survival. This ceaseless
drive for land, for its contribution to the sustaining of life.
continued through the centuries and was joined by the search

Tm; FtRST 'rnorcn'r of \oah and his party. as they

for lands rich in precious jewels and priceless minerals,
for wealth or convenience and comfort.

The importance of land to survival, which began in those
early days, and the desire for luxuries that followed, is rap-
idly being overtaken by a new land need, partaking of the.
qualities of both. This is the urgent need of land for leisure
use—for enjoyment of the out-of-doors, for relaxation, for
refreshment of the spirit.

W ith vast population increases and the scattering of the
overflow from our big urban centers today, the search for
land for living confronts Americans everywhere. William
H. Whyte brings this into focus very ably and forcefully in
his recent hook The. Exploding :lfetmpolis. In speaking of
ways to obtain land, he points out: “There seem to be four

-- __--—-———--—-

MR. HAY, Southern District representative for NRA, pio-
neered the Tennessee state park system and served as its di-
rector from 1939-1947. He is also a life member, board of
directors, National Conference on State Parks, charter and
honorary member, Association of Southeastern State Park
Directors.

 

1,8 ’

 

\Villiam M. Hay

vicar lessons. ll.) Getting something done is primarily a
matter of leadership, rather than research. ('2') Bold vision,
tied to some concrete benefit, can get popular support fairly
quickly. t'3l The most effective policy is to get the land first
and rationalize the acquisition later. (4:) Action itself is the
best of all research tools to find what works and what
doesn’t.”

He urges action now through use of existing legislation.
This does not call for the creation of a new level of metro-
politan or regional government. The “state government has
the power” and can produce the necessary revenue. While
a specific land agency may be“. desirable in some states, it
seems most practical, in general, to use the department that
has the “most dc [ac-to powers.” The state seems to provide
a logical source for funds. Open spaces in the whole metro-
politan area would actually serve a wide segment of regional
population. Funds from general revenue also mean a more
equitable assessment of cost.

Mr. Whyte does not rule out land acquisition by gift,
and, in fact, encourages it. Close cooperation between local
levels of government and the state government, as well as
interagency cooperation within these government levels, is
encouraged, with full use of private and civic groups.

He emphasizes, as an important tool, the public purchase

RECREATtON

 
 
  
   
  
   
   
   
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
    
  
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
  
  
    
    
 
   
  
   
    
  
 

of deveioprnent rights. In effect, this amounts to what is
commonly referred to as a scenic easement and has long been
' 1 successful use by the National Park Service. An excellent

_ 'ample is the Blue Ridge Parkway. Here the abutting land-
owner agreed to keep his land in pasture or a sliitable type
of agriculture or forest practice. 'Similarly, the Corps of
Engineers and the TVA have secured [Iowage easements for
ater impoundments, and this is sound conservation prac-
Licc. It is in the pnhlic interest, hurts no one, and everyone
ains by it.

\’ith a rapidly growing new highway system, exploding
rburban residential growth, and increasing industrial ex-
nsion, our land has been badly defaced by bulldozers,
oncrcte. and buildings. There has been little coordination
f these develOpments and other vital land uses. Total land-
plans. with adequate provisions for open space. are
ng overdue. It must be realized, however, that “a small

_ oup of central planners laying down antiseptic green belts
‘ not the answer.”

Problem of Administration

The administration of government services in urban
rawl presents many problems of jurisdictional responsi-
lities. Much thought, planning, and action are being de-
ted to attempts to find solutions. Regional planning agen-
' are multiplying rapidly. Metropolitan government has
n considered by cities such as Nashville; Miami; Rich-
ond; Philadelphia; Austin, Texas; and others.

Frank C. Moore, president of the Governmental Affairs
‘oundation, offers practical advice.” His ideas are based
n the philosophy that would “use the level of government
losest to the community for all the public function it
can handle” and “utilize cooperative intergovernmental ar-
rangements, where appropriate, to obtain economic per-
formancc and popular approval.” He stresses the need for
learer definition of the kind of metropolitan or urban com-
unity we are seeking, to meet present needs as well as the
ng-range needs:

“The people of each state must decide whether they in-
end to:

0 Utilize the municipal or other subdivision of local gov-
rnment now existing, with or without some redistribution
f present powers, but in any event, with new opportunities
11‘ intergovernmental cooperation; or

o Resort to the creation of new and larger agencies of
overnment to meet the areawide needs of metropolitan
*n urban communities.” '

Mr. Moore adds: “Frankly I prefer—at least initially—
xploration of the possibilities of the first method before
- resort to the second.” He goes on to say that the facili-
ics and services required must be provided no matter which
ourse is followed, with a more equitable and adequate dis-
ribution of cost. “These vital goals can be reached only by
' e cooperative efforts of government, public and private
ncies, and citizens. Widespread knowledge of the dini-

' lties to he overcome and possible routes to solutions is
perative.”

’mreedings of the American Municipal Congress, 1956. American
icipal Association, Washington, I). C.

v 1959

The Relation of Man to Resources

The heavy concentration within an urban environment of
people accustomed to rural living makes imperative the pro-
vision of large open areas within convenient access of ur-
ban man—land for uncrowded, “free re-creation of bodics,
minds, and spirits.”

Luthcr Cu‘ick pr0posed the thesis “that urbanization,
in and of itself, as a pattern of life, increascs the dependence
of our culture on the natural resources, and that urbaniza-
tion furthermore makes for a revised scale of conservation
practices.” " In applying this to recreation, Dr. Culick
points out that the new lcisure is an urban development and
urban population has the need and desire to get into the
country, to land and water. The impact of travel, for in-
stance, can be devastating on such great parks as Yellow-
stone and Yosemite.

Urbanization. with its increased pressure on land use,
makes conservation in its fullest sense most essential; and a
vigorous program of land conservation and use must be at-
tained. To realize this vital goal, public and private action
to develop and sustain this system is essential.

Dr. Culick cautions that action by government must he
taken—but taken through our democratic political institu-
tions. This does not mean initiative on one level with water,
another‘with land, or another with open space. Each of the
functions should, and can, he divided into “its national, its
regional, and its local aspects.” The job cannot be left solely
Up to the technicians, planners, independent authorities, or
bureaucrats. The experts could probably move faster; pro-
fessionals will be needed at the proper time; but little will
be done, and made to stick, unless it follows national, state,
and local democratic channels.

He points out that while it is wonderful to break bottle-
necks by having various functions, such as highways, water
systems, and parks divided, it is also desirable to have these
activities interrelated; and that condition can be achieved
only by using government units covering a regional area.
Planning in a vacuum by those with no concern for action
is a poor basis of operation. It is equally inadequate to
permit action agcncies to operate withoutprofcssional plan-
ning assistance.

In speaking to the annual meeting of the National Con-
ference on State Parks, at Blackwater Falls State Park, West
Virginia, in October, 1958, Edward J. Mecman, editor of the

Memphis, Tennessee, Press Scimitar, recalled the land vaui-
sition history of the Great Smoky Mountain National Park
and Shelby Forest State Park. He has summed up in brief,
terse terms a sound method of approach, which included
the basic advice of Messrs. Whyte, Culick, and Moore. He
said that this is not a job for government and professionals

alone, but calls for equal information to and action by citi-
zens and the press.

Examples of Positive Action

The park, parkway, and recreation area studies conducted
by the various states, with financial and technical aid from

 

"I’erspecn'res on Conservation: Essays on America’s Natural Re-

sources. John llopkins Press, Baltimore, 1958.

189

 

the National Park Service, gave a fine start toward expand-
ing the American park and recreation movement in the late
thirties. Provisions have been made for the revival of these
federal-state cooperative projects, which would include ma-
jor parkland needs in metropolitan areas. Some of the plans
and legislation furthering the conservation, expansion, and
improvement of our recreation resources are:

0 The 85th Congress created The Outdoor Recreation
Resources Review Act (Public Law 85-470) , June 28, 1958
(see page 178). This provides for a national inventory of
all recreation resources.

0 The National Park Service has also moved forward
with its Mission 66, a long-range plan for land acquisition
and development. The Forest Service has also initiated a
similar project, Operation Outdoors.

0 Some of the states have taken similar action: Massa-
chusetts, on October 15, 1958, passed a Senate bill, presented
by the Massachusetts Department of Natural Resources and
a Citizens’ Committee for Open Spaces, following a strong
educational campaign on the part of both. The commis-
sioner of the department of natural resources is authorized
to acquire, by eminent domain, lands needed for state parks,
state forest recreation areas, and state reservations, and
develop them when funds are available. However, authority
to acquire lands within metropolitan park districts was left
to the local jurisdictions encompassing those areas. The
legislation was preceded by a report of an inventory and
plan for development of natural resources of Massachusetts
by the department of natural resources in January, 1958.

o The California Public Outdoor Recreation Act was
passed by the legislature in 1957. Objectives provide for
(1) a review of all factors affecting public outdoor recrea-
tion in the foreseeable future; (2) inventory and classifica-
tion of existing and potential areas; (3) a look at the nature
and extent of need of the pe0ple for outdoor recreation op-
portunities; (4) analysis of the authority of different agen-
cies and levels of government concerned with these resourc-
es, and (5) the nature, location, and size of recreation land
and water areas to be developed, togethcr with program for
administration, fiiiance, and deveIOpment. This act also was
preceded by a 1956 study by the state division of beaches
and parks. California is implementing the act through a
special committee appointed by the governor.

0 Government at various levels is already concerned
with this problem. State agencies, with a tradition of ac-
quiring lands, are adding to their holdings each year. Game
and fish agencics are spending Dingell Johnson funds for
land for fishing lakes, Pittman Robinson money for land
for game preserves. State forest departments, state parks,
water control boards are adding new lands. With all the
new highway construction, state highway departments must
.declare a policy of protection for parklands and needed
open areas. Additional lands are becoming available on the
water impoundments of the Corps of Engineers and Bureau
.of Reclamation.

Locally, counties, school boards, and towns are acquir-
ing recreation lands, in some cases in accordance with a
long-range recreation area plan. Many new high school

190

properties contain thirty to fifty acres or more which are
designed for both school and community recreation use.
Urban renewal authorities, housing, schools, parks are all
acquiring lands, singly and jointly, within the cities them-
selves. There are many good examples of local interagency
000peration in buying lands for joint use. With a similar
effort at the state level, intergovernment steps could easily
follow.

Conclusion

It seems that present government machinery can do a
lot to lick this problem and lick it immediately. Inter-
agency cooperation at the local and state level can do much
to start wheels rolling; intergovernment action will add
force and strength; utilization of private organizations,
civic groups, citizens’ effort will transmute endeavor into
reality.

Scientific planning and technological develOpment in in-
dustry and commerce have far outstripped that in govern-
ment, while progress in social science and planning, affect-
ing the fundamental well-being of .the pe0ple, has lagged
far behind. Today, our great problem is one of human re-
sources. The vcry permanency of our democratic institu-
tions, of our government itself, rests on our ability to keep
our social devel0pment in pace with industrial and techni-
cal growth.

A more abundant life for all requires a healthier and
happier environment. It implies more beautiful and pleas-
ant surroundings, with our well-planned and orderly cities,
serving not only the industrial and commercial needs of the
people but satisfying as well their cultural, esthetic, and rec-
reation desires. Because of improved and expanded means
of transportation, closely connecting city with country, it
means a countryside in which natural beauty is conserved
or restored, with its rivcrs clean and unpolluted, its hill-
sides, and its noncommercial areas largely wooded.

That all this may be, there must first be the public desire
that it shall be. Our highly mechanized, highly competitive
industrial society, which compels pe0ple to work and live
together, has made possible unparalleled leisure time. It has
also made the satisfaction of this leisure virtually impera-
tive. Man must rest from his lahors——he must recreate. The
problem is simply where, and all that it implies. The full
use of all energies, whether from fission or fusion, through
the cooperative effort of all—public, technical, citizen, civic
and newspaper——is vital. Land for living is a need and re-

sponsihility of all. #

The bulldozers of big contractors, real estate
operators, and industrial engineers are dicta-
ting the shape of cities of the future and the way
a people must live. There is no thought of living
“in the R ow of nature.” Urban man has thrown
plans to the winds and is living a catch-as-catch-

can existence dominated by i m permanence,
speed and Ruidity of movement. He is divorcing
himself from the earth, and in this divorcement
he is losing contact with elemental and spiritual
things. . . . —Sigurd F. Olson in Perspectives on

Conservation.

 

RECREATIO

 

 

 

THE meomxxcs of linking seden-
tary hobbies with increased physi-
cal activity has been stressed by Presi~
dent Eisenhower,Vice-President Nixon,
and other administration oIIicials, in
their concern for the fitness of our
youth, and improvement of their gen-
erally low level of physical condition.
In this connection, bike riding has been
emphasized as an enjoyable physical
exercise. It is one of the most flexible,
adaptable, beneficial, and inexpensive
activities in which young pe0ple, and/ or
other ages can participate, alone or in
a recreation group.

It is flexible because it can be carried
on in small areas, on city play streets,
on school tracks during the summer
months, and for bike picnics, camping
trips, or one-day tours to nearby points
of interest. It is adaptable because art
classes can use bikes to get to scenic
areas by way of secondary roads and
paths inaccessible to cars; camera clubs,
nature study groups, bird watchers, and
others can utilize the reliable two-wheel-
er in the same way. It is beneficial, since
it helps develop strong bodies; keeps
riders out in the sun and air; and is of-
ten the medium by which youngsters
broaden their interests in many other
group activities.

Bicycling is a low-cost activity
because virtually every child in the
country owns a two-wheeler during his
formative years; thus the recreation
. organization does not have to invest in
equipment. A single supervisor can be
assigned to a bike club during its initial
period and for initial field trips, after

 

JOHN W. NEWTON is director of infor-
mation, Bicycle Institute of America.

MAY 1959

May is American Bike Month, and Pat
Boone, TV and movie star, is committee
chairman this year. Free hike inspections
and twelve safety rnles will be highlighted.

John \V. Newton

Wheeling Toward

Fitness

which elected officers will guide the
club.

“America’s children should ride their
bikes more,” was one of the President’s
comments, when discussing plans to
raise the nation’s physical standards.
Dr. Paul Dudley White, his consult-
ing cardiac specialist and a strong
advocate of bike use, said: “I would like
to put everybody on bikes . . . not once
in a while, but regularly, as a routine.”
Other medical authorities have similar-
ly lauded the two-wheeler.

Dr. Shane MacCarthy, executive di-
rector of the President’s Council on
Youth Fitness, has said: “No sport is
more appropriate than cycling, to unite
the efforts of children and parents for
health and happiness.”

Coaches also approve highly of the
bicycle to improve general condition
and build Up athletes’ stamina. The late
Knnte Rockne, in creating his famous
teams at Notre Dame, and Carl Snavely,
while creating his famed unbeaten grid
machines at Cornell, used two-wheelers
to dcvclop lung capacity, leg drive, and
staying power.

Teenage bike clubs should be encour-
aged to hold bike tours, picnics, and
camping trips during the summer; fam-
ily bike hikes can be dcvcl0pcd; streets
or areas in each community can be des-
ignated as “bike recreation areas” on
certain days each week; bike racks can
be installed in community centers to en-
courage increased cycling (the Bicycle
Institute of Amcrica, 122 East 42nd
Street, New York 17, will provide free
rack plans) ; interest in bike tours can
be developed through American Youth

Hostels, and efiorts should be made to

have those engaged in sedentary activi-
ties, such as photography and painting,
get to their scenic sites via the two-
wheeler for basic exercise. High-school
tracks make an excellent surface for
summer vacation riding; bike paths
might be encouraged through local
parks and school campuses, and the
parking areas of shopping centers can
be used for organized riding programs,
such as drill teams in local parades.

Organization of a bicycle club is
easily accomplished. Its members must
plan routes; provide maps and mark
sites of interest; provide variety on
trips; make allowances for the less ex-
perienced riders while planning tours;
and, in general, keep interest high in
club activities.

Another p0pular bicycle activity is
the bicycle-safety'program. These are
widely sponsored across the country,
by organizations such as Kiwanis and
Optimists Clubs and Junior Chambers
of Commerce. (See RECREATION, May,
1958. Instructions and rates are (wait-
abic from the Bicycie Institute.)

Publicity generated by activities such
as these can be valuable to recreation
organizations. Bicycle programs lend
themselves to news pictures and stories
which give the community the oppor-
tnnity to see recreation in action for
the entertainment, health, and safety
of its younger citizcns. Bike riding
can also bind much of a recreation or-
ganization's work together, acting as
a catalytic agent on youngsters of vari-
ons interests and backgrounds. This dc-
lightful, healthful outdoor sport would
also go a long way toward improving
the physical condition of our youth. #-

191

The recreation center in
Montgomery, Alabama, is a bee-
hive of activities for senior citizens.

SOUTHERN SENIORS GIVE SERVICE

AKING THEMSELVES useful and

happy, senior citizens of Mont-
gomery, Alabama, are proving there is
a lot of service mileage in men and
women past retirement age. The near
six hundred who have become affiliated
with the eight active senior-citizen clubs
have learned that “Golden Age” means
a golden opportunity to serve their com-
munity.

The clubs are coordinated with the
president and secretary of each group
making up a central council which sets
up citywide program ideas. However,
more important is the emphasis on out-
put rather than intake, which provides
opportunity for every member to make
personal contributions to his fellow
citizens in a dozen ways. So much in
demand are the members’ services that
plans are now under way to set 11p a
card file from which, the various agen-
cies in Montgomery can choose volun-
teer help.

These men and women are not with-
out experience. Many are contributing,
in the golden-age clubs, talcnts they
had before retiring and others are find-
ing ways to help. Combining their own
ideas with suggestions from Mrs. Edith
Upchurch. director of social recreation,
and her staff, they have already been
engaged to help in telephone solicita-
tions for United Appeals and the March
of Dimes.

The women have dressed hundreds of
dolls for the Salvation Army’s Christ-
mas program, and their needles have
flashed to repair clothing they collected
for the Council of Jewish Women in its
annual drive to aid needy families. The
men have pitched in to do their share
by repairing toys and collecting radios

192

and magazines for distribution among
mental hospitals in the state. Many of
the members correspond with the “for-
gotten” patients; others make quilts
and lap robes for the sick.

One group has completed training at
the Air Defense Filter Center in Mont-
gomery, one of the vast network of air
force skywatch stations. Another group
works long hours, stuffing envelopes for
the League of Women Voters.

However, Montgomery goldcn-agers
are not all business. They find time for
recreation and entertainment and oc-
casionally plot functions for the entire
city’s enjoyment. Their model antique
and hobby show is an annual event,
with displays in the Montgomery Mu-
seum of Fine Arts. The public has an-
other opportunity to see the golden-
agers’ handwork at the South Alabama
Fair each year in the State Coliseum.
Members take turns at the display booth
to answer questions.

Dancing, spelling hees. songfests, and
skits make up the entertainment at joint
meetings of the clubs. At least once a
year, members are furnished transpor-
tation to a nearby lake for a day of fish-
ing and picnic fun.

For their own fun and information,
several of the members publish a month-
ly bulletin, Golden Age Notes, which
carries along with news items about
memhers, information about monthly
meeting dates and reports of previous
meetings. A special feature of the pub-
lication, which is written, folded, and
mailed by the members, is an apartment
rental section, giving locations and
costs of suitable vacant apartments,
which have been inSpected for safety
factors, with respect to older persons.

The cluhs are sponsored either by
churches or by civic organizations in
the city. The city bears the expense of
the golden-age program for four of the
clubs. Sponsoring churches pick up the
tab for the others.

TranSportation has been, and re-
mains, one of the most pressing prob-
lcms. The Montgomery Boys’ Club fur-
nishes a hus for special occasions, hut
many of the membcrs are limited in
their ability to attend meetings when
dependent on family cars.

Organization

The golden-age clubs are open to men
and women over fifty years of age and
are Sponsored by the city recreation de-
partment. Their general purpose is to
enrich the lives of older adults by pro-
viding Opportunities to participate in
activities designed to meet their basic
needs—to give them a feeling of he-
longing within a group, to enable them
to enjoy new experiences, to express
themselves through creative activities,
and to make a worthwhile contribution
to their community. There are no dues
or fees.

There are eight small neighborhood
clubs. These groups meet once a month,
and each group has its own officers.
Once a month all neighborhood clubs
come together for a citywide meeting.
The central governing body is known as
the golden-age council and is composed
of two representatives of each neigh-
borhood club. It meets monthly to for-
mulate plans for the golden-age clubs.

Program

The club program has three aspects:
recreation, community service, and

RECREATION

 

There is a lot of serviee mileage in men and women past re-
tirement age. Give them ample opportunin to experienee the
riell satisfaetions that are to be derived from doing for others.

adult education. Recreation activities
include weekly craft classes; hobby and
antique show; spring fashion show;
all-day fishing trips and picnics; Easter-
hat parade; song fests; dramatics: and
games.

Adult education includes sessions on
social security; mental hygiene; hous-
ing for the aged; latest medical findings
in the field of geriatrics; family-life
conference on needs and interests of
older adults; an annual older adult con-
ference at Blue Lake; and book reviews.

The Christmas doll-dressing project
for the Salvation Army is dearest to
the heart of the golden-agcrs. The Sal-
vation Army found that, by purchasing.
their dolls for Christmas baskets un-
dressed. they could buy eight times as
many for the same amount of money.
The golden-agers were delighted to as-
sume the responsibility for dressing
them. The women could not have put
more work on them if they had been
making christening clothes for their
grandchildren. The originality shown
in the dresses was amazing! There were
ballet dancers, brides, Bermuda shorts,
evening clothes, and one little white-
headed doll dressed as a little old lady
in lavender and lace. This was certainly
an Opportunity for them to express
themselves creatively.

The magazine and radio collection
for the state mental hospital is a year-
round project. The director of the men-
tal health society pointed out the need
for magazines and radios and appealed
to them for help. The reSponse was over-
whelming. 0n the first collection, there
were over a thousand magazines and
twenty-four radios. Since the senior
citizens were so enthusiastic ahout the

MAY 1959

project, it was decided to let them take
their collection to Bryce’s Hospital in
Tuscaloosa. It was an all-day trip (hun-
dred miles). They were taken into all
the wards and met many of the patients.
They came home wanting to do more
and more. They have collected elothes.
made lap robes. knitted sweaters. and
pieced quilts, which have been sent reg-
ularly to the hospital. There are a great
many patients in the hospital who have
been neglected by their families. Some
havcihad no contact with the outside
world for many. many years. Some time
ago. a list of these patients was issued
and the golden-agers were asked to cor-
respond with them. Some have kept up
the correspondence for more than two
years.

Adult education is the newest phase
of the program. Regular meetings and
the newspaper are means of passing on
information concerning people in this
age group. Several excellent films from
the state department of mental health-—
the latest, Advemuring in .‘lfaturity,
dealing with the psychological factors
involved in growing old—“have been
shown. Cecil Simpson, local director of
Social Security, has met with the group
several times, to give the latest facts on
Social Security; new government regu-
lations concerning public housing were
published in an issue of the Notes. Sev-
eral ministers have discussed “The
Church’s Ministry to its Senior Citi-
zens" and the “Spiritual Side of Crow-
ing Old." The latest findings in the field
of geriatrics are passed on to the group.
Last spring the family life institute held
a three-day workshop dealing with all
phases of the life of an older adult. The
golden-agers attended en masse. prov-

Repairing elothes for needy families is one of the aetivities of
the busy seniors of the Alabama club. Members” serviees are
greatly in demand by many ageneies in the Montgomery area.

ing they were eager for such informa-
ll()tt.

The spring fashion show held last
year was so popular that another is a
“must.” The fashion show evolved
from the thought that all women. re-
gardless of age. like to look lovely and
be admired. How true it was! There
were twenty-five models (this year there
will be neargr fifty) , all over sixty years
of age. The oldest was eighty-four and
she is as the loveliest one in the parade.
in a beautiful nylon lace dress and
thirty-five-dollar hat. All clothes were
loaned by The Montgomery Fair and
most of the models hought the clothes
they wore—~they just liked the idea of
being so dressed up.

The hobby and antique show gives an
opportunity to display articles made
in craft classes, thus stimulating inter-
est there. It is usually quite good (it's
an annual event} , but the antique show
is much more interesting. Here is op-
portunity to share with others precious
little keepsakes and family treasureS.
One golden-ager brought a pair of danc-
ing shoes dating back to 1787 and
another displayed his grandmother’s
wedding dress, over 123 years old.
There was a hlue-back speller. and many
other sehoolbooks saved from their first
years in St'llool, flat silver, vases, dishes,
pictures, and all types of handwork and
clothes. Each golden-ager would tell
you the entire history and relive all the
memories of her exhibit. as she. checked
it in, thus we were still checking.r in arti-
cles long after the show opened. The
next year. there were two full days for
entering exhibits. thereby allowing time
to enjoy memories with the golden-

ager. 4‘3."
193

 

PARK AND RECREATION FACILITIES

A Policy . . .

Parr l

"The importance of parks and recreation as a public
service has been definiter established . . .”

The policy outlined below has been
approved by both the Greensboro Parks
and Recreation Commission and their
city council.

The provision of park and recreation
facilities and a recreation program for
the use and convenience of the citizens
of Greensboro, VorthCarolina, is a pub-
lic service rendered by the municipality
in response to a clear expression of need
by the people. This public service is es-
sentially of equal importance with many
of the other municipal public services
traditionally rendered by a municipal-
ity.

In the field of recreation, the pro-
vision of park and recreation areas and
their operation by the municipality has
proven to be the most economical and
most convenient method of supplying
these services to the public. The citizens
of Greensboro have repeatedly ex-
pressed their requests to the municipal-
ity, in numerous proposals, for the im-
provement of existing parklands and the
acquisition of additional properties for

194.

this purpose. A clear mandate in favor
of recreation was expressed in the elec-
tion of July 25, 1950, when the use of
tax money for recreation purposes was
approved and a levy of ten cents on the
tax rate was specifically authorized.
The importance of parks and recrea-
tion as a public service has been defi-
nitely established throughout the coun-
try. Particularly is this true in larger
urban centers where a fully developed
recreation program has been found es-
sential to the well-being of all citizens,
eSpecially to those unable to afford
large expenditures for private recrea-
tion facilities. Responsible industrial
concerns, seeking new locations, fre-
quently measure a community’s Spirit
hy the quality of its public recreation
program and by the interest in heauti-
fication as expressed in the public park
system. They have serious reservations
about locating new plants in any city
that does not provide an atmosphere of
pleasant community living through a
complete park and recreation program.
In the past, when Greensboro was

small, and a recreation program was not
definitely established, parklands in the
city were acquired primarily through
gifts from individuals or land develop-
ers. A considerable aniount of land has
actuallybeen secured by this process,but
property so obtained can hardly be re-
garded as adequate for a modern park
and recreation program. Certainly, for
the future, because of growing popula-
tion and its greater requirements for
these functions, it seems certain that
haphazard gifts of residual parcels of
land having no other economic use can
hardly provide a comprehensive pattern
of adequate sites for park and recrea-
tion purposes.

It is for these reasons that a strong,
positive, and continuing policy for the
acquisition, improvement, and manage-
ment of park and recreation areas is
essential. The underlying problem is
one of site acquisition and one which
deserves a definite policy for allevia-
tion, in order that a comprehensive pro-
gram of parks and recreation areas can

be developed for the public benefit.

Policy Statement

Acquisition of Park and Recreation
Areas. In order to keep pace with the
growth of the community and the fuller
requirements of an adequate recreation

RECREATION

program, Greensboro will systematic-
ally seek the dedication and acquisition
of pr0pcrties for park and recreation
purposes by all legal methods available
to it. Any land acquired for park and
recreation functions, by whatever
means, shall be considered to be added
to the total pool of properties for this
purpose.

The gift of properties to the munici-
pality for this purpose will be accCptcd,
upon the recommendation of the parks
and recreation commission, provided
the title to such land is not restricted
so as to prevent use of the pr0perty for
other purposes, as changing circum-
stances may require.

The designation of land for park
purposes, in new subdivision develop-
mcnts, with the advice and consent of
the parks and recreation commission,
shall be encouraged. Land in new sub-
divisions, turned over to the city be-
cause of the existence of a storm-drain-
age problcm, will bc maintained to care
for storm drainage primarily and there-
after may be designated for park and
recreation purposes.

Park Acquisition Fund. To promote
orderly acquisition of property for park
and recreation purposes and in order
to preserve the vested interest that the
community has in such prOperties, there
shall be established a special fund to
be known as the park acquisition fund.
This fund may be used along with other
resources for the purchase of needed
park and recreation sites. It may be
augmented in the following ways:

0 By appropriation of tax money, col-
lectcd under the authorized tcn-cent
levy for recreation purposes.

0 By proceeds from the sale of any
property previously used for public
park and recreation functions.

0 By transfer of money from other
funds whenever park pr0perties are re-
assigned to other city functions.

0 By contributions from devel0pers,
made in lieu of providing parks or other
open spaces under any requirement of
the subdivision regulations.

0 By gifts or contributions from indi-
viduals and organizations favoring the
expansion of park pr0perties.

o By appr0priation of nontax revenues.

Alienation of Park and Recreation

MAY 1959

Areas. lt shall be the policy of Greens-
boro to maintain, insofar as possible,
in perpetuity, areas for park and rec-
rcation purposes, for the benefit of all
the people. Properties now so devoted
shall continue to be used in this manner
until changing circumstances compel
thcir reassignment to other uses.
Whenever park and recreation pr0p-
erties are required for other purposes,
adequate compensation shall he made
cithcr by providing equivalent proper-
ties for park purposes or by a pr0per
paymcut or appropriation to the park
acquisition fund. Where such alienation
of park and recreation properties is pro-
posed, a public hearing on the subject
shall be held by the parks and recrea-
tion commission before the commission
shall act to approve or disapprove such

of park areas and recreation facilities
on all lands dedicated or devotcd to
such uses. There shall be no construc-
tion on or development of park or rec-
reation properties without the prior
consent of the parks and recreation com-
mission and only in accordance with
plans prepared by the commission and
the department. ‘

The maintenance, supervision, and
operation of all city-owned parks and
recreation areas shall be the duty of the
recreation department, with the advice
of the parks and recreation commission.

In view of this assignment of main-
tenance, supervision, and operation to
the recreation department and the parks
and recreation commission, there shall
be no alteration of any city-owned parks

or recreation properties beyond normal

 

Some park areas, used for reerenlion purposes, new sport ullramodern free-play
sculpture, like this equipment on the shore of Lake Merrill, Oakland, California.

alienation and no such alienation shall
take place without the approval of the
said commission.

Whenever existing park or recreation
pr0perty is required for street purposes
or other public or private uses, a sum
of money equal to the fair market value
of the property so alienated shall be
credited to the park aquisition fund,
in order that additional purchases may
be made at appropriate locations and
in order that the total amount of land
devoted to park and recreation purposes
shall not be diminished.

DeveloPment and Operation. The parks
and recreation commission and the rec-
reation department shall prepare and
maintain plans for the development,
landscaping, and physical improvement

maintenance by any public or private
agency, including other departments of
the city government and there shall be
no cutting of trees without the prior
approval of the department and the
commission.

The parks and recreation commission
shall have full and complete authority
over the trimming and removal of all
shade trees, hedges, and shrubs growing
on the public streets of Greensboro and
the planting of same upon such streets
and, with the consent of the respective
owners, shall have full and complete
authority over the trimming and re-
moval of all shade trees, hedges, and
shrubs overhanging the public streets,
parks, and purl-(ways.

(Part H continued on next page.)

195

PARII AND RECREATION FACILITIES

Planning Park and Recreation Areas

Experience points up important “do’s
and dont’s” in modern park and recreation planning,

Walter L. Scott

The basic fundamentals involved in
planning park and recreation areas"
necessitate close attention to details
time and experience have proved of
practical value.

Although some of these may seem
elementary, they merit repetition.

1. Get the best trained, technical,
artistic men available to do the actual
these should be profession-
ally experienced and mature. This is

planning;

the most important point of all.

2. Planning park and recreation
areas is seldom a one-man job. Plans
are usually made better after qualified
and interested persons have been given
a chance to make suggestions. Even
after plans have been drawn in) and
cleared by all necessary officials, it’s
more than a one-man task to preserve
them, without forced changes, from
conniving political maneuvers. This is
where the executive needs the support
of a commission, possibly three com-
missions—park. recreation, and plan-
ning—and. perhaps, even the city man-
ager and city council. One aggressive,
influential person or one strong organ-
ization might be forceful enough to
overpower one courageous professional
man, but if the professional groups
mentioned above stand firm. selfish in-
terests usually cannot prevail. This is a
fundamental principle and cannot be
compromised .

3. Keep areas balanced, whenever
possible, between tranquil, landscaped,
grassy areas and spa_ce accommodating
more active recreation. Some recreation
people forget that one of the best forms
of recreation can be a pleasant drive
through a beautiful park or an hour
of meditation, lying stretched out on

*Remarks from an address before the 1958
Conference of the California League of Cities.

196

a quiet grassy area near stream or

flowers.

4. Capitalize upon unusual tOpogra-
phy and beautiful scenery. A little brook
running down a natural hill into a small
lake can be an eye-catcher. If the road
skirts an ocean bluff, landscape it to en-
hance the view.

5. If nature hasn’t provided inter-
esting topographical features, build
them in. In New Orleans, a small hill
was built into a park, to give children
an experience flat terrain couldn’t pro-
vide. Why not plant one hundred dif-
ferent kinds of shrubs and trees in an
area so groups of school children,
adults can learn their

SCOU [5, CV6"

names?

6. Cities with well-developed and
beautifully landscaped park and rec-
reation areas attract homeowners and
often help maintain, if not increase,
property values. In the end, this means
higher assessed valuation and lower
taxes.

7. Consider the “tapering” principle,
in planning a park or recreation area
layout. Start with the least active area:
lead from the grassy passive areas to
the space for tiny tots and their mothers.
to the kindergarten plot, to the small
children’s playground, to the volleyball.
basketball, and softball courts and dia-
monds for older children, to the tennis

courts, adult softball, baseball, and, fi-
nally, to the football field.**

8. Plan each park and recreation
area with overall use in mind. Be pa-
tient with those neighbors who “don’t
want a ball diamond in ‘our’ park.”

9. Set high standards for construc-
tion of facilities. Use Class A materials.

“‘This principle can be applicd in Long
Beach, where land is level. Mr. Scott agrees it
is less applicable where topography is unevcn.

 

Part II

10. Be consistent in your architec-
tural style within one park area. A
hodgepodge of buildings, executed in
a variety of styles—for example, con-
temporary, Spanish, and Colonial—is
very unattractive.

11. It is usually better to group many
services in one first-class building than
in a dozen shacks scattered throughout
an area, as is so often done on many
California beaches.

12. Consider appropriate conces.
sions which add appeal to areas, are not
inconsistent with park use, and can be
a source of revenue. If concessions are
privately operated, set very high stand-
ards and write apprOpriate, foolproof
safeguards and cancellation clauses into
the contracts.

13. Have regard for the neighbors,
to the extent this is possible. Never in-
flict heavy traflic, obnoxioust bright
night lighting, nearby stables. crowds
of noisy spectators upon them, when, by
careful planning, these can be avoided.

l4. Adequate provision must be
made for off-street parking. For in-
stance, an eighteen-hole golf course
should have about two hundred spaces
for cars. Parking lots need not be a
bleak eyesore. They can be attractive by
use of trees and screen landscaping.

15. Avoid ugly fencing throughout
areas. Screen planting can often hide
necessary fencing, especially if it is un-
attractive. There is also a new link fenc-
ing available, sprayed with plastic, in
various colors, thus making it eye ap-
pealing as well as functional. {See April
RECREATION “Market News”—-Ed.)

16. Before planning a large zoo or
a regional golf course, it might be best
first to consult adjoining cities and/or
counties to see if they have similar plans
in mind. Maybe their plans are so com-
prehensive you can be Spared the trou-
ble and expense of duplication. #

M R. SCOTT is supervisor of physical edu-

cation, Long Beach Unified School Dis-
trict, and director of municipal and
school recreation, Long Beach, Califor-
nia.

RECREATION

TEENAGERS ACT FOR

CHILDREN

Nancy Eiehstcadt

“This was the perfect niche

for teenage actors."

“ ow (:0le we don’t do plays for adults?” “Why

H don’t we do Seven Keys to Baldpate or a good mys-
tery like that?” “Are we always just going to do plays for
kids?”

These were the kinds of questions being asked at an
early meeting of the Bay Teen Players, a new high-school
drama group sponsored by the Whitefish Bay [Wisconsin]
Department of Adult Education and Recreation. As director
of this new group, I had rather firmly channeled their first
efforts towards a play for children, in the hope that they
would feel truly rewarded for their efforts.

For when teenagers emulate adults in theatrical role-
playincr, there is always the risk of doing such an innnature
job that they will be subject to a certain amount of ridicule.
Second, there is the problem of finding an audience. Our
community is a suburb of Milwaukee, and there are many
adult drama groups in the area all clamoring for an audi-
ence. Who. besides a handful of parents and friends, would
come to see these youngsters in Seven Keys to Baldpate
when half a dozen adult groups can do better?

So we had settled on Sleeping Beauty and went into pro-
duction. Our dates were set. \Ve had been invited to per-
form for all the playgrounds in \Vhitefisll Bay. I sincerely
hoped that the audience response would be such that the
liay Teens would find reasons for playing for children for
themselves.

Yet these questions still came up. There was still a hank-
ering to do something for their peers and for their parents.
They worked hard and did a good job, partly hecanse they
had ohligations to meet, partly to placate their director.

Sleeping Beauty can now be termed a successful produc-
tion for a first effort. Scene changes were slower than they
might have been and the audience was restive at times; but,
when the lights_flickered and the wicked old fairy appeared,
the audience screamed and tittered. One could feel the
actors and stagehands getting that genuine feeling of satis-
faction coming from a convincing performance.

I was positive this was a perfect niche for teenage ac-

 

MRS. EICHSTEADT, director 0/ the Bay Players. is a member
0/ the Whitehall Bay Department 0/ Recreation and Adah
Education and has had extensive theatrical experience.

MAY 1959

 

 

tors. They have the potential to do the exaggerated imagin-
ative acting that children’s theater needs. They could he
less inhibited than adults, if need be. Here was something
they could do better than adults! But they were not con-
vinced! At our first meeting the questions came again. “That
was okay, but now can’t: we do something for adults?” This
was said in many different ways.

Something for Adults

We chose two good one-acters, obviously meant for teen-
age actors, one about camping, the other concerning a girls’
boarding school. Everyone put forth a concerted effort. In
addition to rehearsing and building what few set pieces we
did use, the cast and crew had to set about the laborious
task of selling tickets.

To them it was deflating to find that there was no great
demand for tickets. They knew that they were going to be
great, but in a town of rather sOphisticated theatergoers,
they found people quite reluctant to buy tickets—not their
parents and close friends, of course, but they could never
fill the house. The Bay Teens could not help but remember
fondly the full houses that they had played to earlier in the
summer, and how nice it was not to have to push tickets.
At performance time they again did a creditahle job. but
they could not help but be disturbed by the slim, though
appreciative audience. “All that work,” someone said. “and
only about a hundred and fifty peeple saw it.”

“Let’s Play for Kids!”

By this time our summer was over and it wasn’t until
mid-fall that we assembled for our first winter season. The
'first thing we discussed was our old problem, whom to play
for. “I want you to decide where your talents lie.” I said.
“Think it over carefully before we settle on what plays to
do this year.”

“Let’s play for kids, where we’re appreciated,” someone
said. And “I think we do as good or better joh playing for
kids than we do of anything else. And I think we do it
better than some adults would.”

And so the switch was made, this time probahly for good.
Since then we have had very few suggestions that we change
objectives. When a new 111cmher joins and seems surprised

197

that we don’t do adult plays, it is satisfying to have an “old-
guard” member retort, “Do you want to work your heart
out on a job that somebody else can do better?” or “Do you
want to play to a half-empty house? We want an audience!”

The Bay Teen Players are well into their second year.
They can certainly he called a successful teenage theater in
every sense of the word. Their membership has doubled
and their audiences increase and seem more pleased with
each successive production. One of the biggest reasons they
are successful is because these young people .have found
their forte—entertaining children—a forte which they. as
teenagers, can fill better than any other age level.

A second reason why they can be termed successful is
the total participation each member has within the group.
If you join the Bay Teen Players and want to act, you are
guaranteed an opportunity to act. If you want to build
scencry, there is always scenery to be built. A place is found
in each production for every aspiring actor, each ambitious
stagehand.

Procedures

We do not work fast; we have only a few productions to
our credit. One rcason for this comparatively slow progress
is a system that we, as a group, have devised for creating
a play to suit our numbers and talents. Perhaps it is not
a rcalistic system, since its theories cannot be practiced in
other walks of life, but its intrinsic values outweigh this
seeming flaw.

The system involves writing the play to suit the avail-
able actors, thus utilizing the principles of true creative
drama. As a group, we estimate the number of actors wc
will have, plan the scenes, then write them. After the script
is completed, we hold tryouts and, naturally, the more cap-
ahle actors get thc bctter parts. But every member who wants
a part has at (east one role.

Naturally this system of “writing our own” takes a little
longer and may not always be possible. But never have 1
known any group to fccl so much a part of a play. It is
because they are responsible for its creation. However,

7mm gate“

these plays are not just thrown together. If they are tossed
off like that, they are usually a hodgepodge. And high-school
youngsters will not put up with a tacky job; they want to
know where they’re going and why. This is where our “sys-
tem” comes in.

We used it for presenting Raggedy Ann and Andy. We
were looking for something that had not been overdone.
The next night there were at least fifteen copies of various
Raggedy Ann stories to read. Each person who brought one
reported on it and by the end of that evening we knew,
roughly, what plot line we were going to follow. Then came
the hard work. We sketchily outlined a plot and the number
of scenes. Thrce or four pe0ple volunteered to get up and
try to act out what they imagined the first scene to be. A
fast notetaker took down as much of what they said as pos-
sible. I then took these notes and tried to assemble it into
workable form and had scripts Inimeographed. The same la-
borious process was followcd for each scene.

Next came casting. I don’t feel that teenagers want to
be judges of their peers; they know how many hard feelings
it eauscs and they don't want to feel responsible. Rehcarsals
began, the script was written and rewritten.

I cannot begin to describe the enthusiasm of this group.
They vied for chances 'to make and distribute posters, to
sew costumes, even sell tickets. Tickets never cost more than
a quarter and they found them easy to sell, but let us not
discredit their drive and enthusiasm.

As performance time came near there also dcve10ped a
wonderful esprit de corps. ‘Vhen Carl developed thc measles
and had to be replaced two days before showtime, someone
else knew his part so well it was a simple matter to replace
him. When Jane, who was to play a ballerina. discovered
that Alice had had ballet lessons she suggested they switch
parts so the ballerina be more authentic. Onc and all, they
were working for a common cause and they worked hard.
It is not so much that these youngsters are completely dedi-
eated to the theater, though they have learned a lot about
its inner workings, but that they have lcarned the secret of
working together. if:

Beatrice H. Hill

'i‘ The February, 1959, issue of Hospi-

tai Management carries an article of in-
terest to many recreation specialists in
hospitals. Sister Christina, R.T., of St.
Mary’s Hospital, Amsterdam, New
York, writes about “Music in the Dc-
partment of Radiology.” This is a new
area for the use of recreation in hospi-
tals, and Sister Christina suggests a
comprehensive program of music for pa-
tients receiving radiological treatment.

'i‘ In the House of Representatives.
86th Congress, John E. Fogarty, of

 

MRS. HILL is director of the NRA Con-
suiting Service on Recreation for the III
and Handicapped.

198

Rhode lsland, introduced Bill ll“) of
interest to many of us working with the
ill and handicapped. Mr. Fogarty states.
“ . . some of the most severely handi-
capped persons are being denied serv-
ices because such . . . do not appear to
be feasible for them, under the defini-
tion of rehabilitation found in present
legislation . . . a vocational rehabilita-
tion act. . . .” This new bill, if passed,
“. . . will mean that rehabilitation agen-
cies may begin services for people who
may not appear to be employable fol-
lowing services.” In addition, Mr. Fog-
arty also says, “ . there are many
badly needed rehabilitation facilities
for which there is no federal assistance
at this time.” For further information,

write Mr. Fogarty at the House of Rep-
resentatives, Washington, D.C.

'i‘ The Altro Health and Rehabilitation
Service of New York has completed
An Experiment in Mental-Patient Re-
habilitation. The study concerns the
use of a sheltered workshop that for-
merly serviced tuberculosis patients, in
a new program for posthospitalized
mental patients. Factors concerning
recreation participation in the hoSpital
and their effect on posthospital rehabil-
itation are among the many topics dis-
cussed. Copies of this publication are
available from the Russell Sage Foun-

dation, 505 Park Avenue, New York 22,
at $2.50. #

RECREATION

___.—.—-——

INDEX OF ADVERTISERS

Page
A-bingdon Press -....-.q.._s -............._s.._ 175
All-Metal Tennis Table Company .. m, 199
American Playground Device Company 174
Califone Corporation W...“ . _ 203
Cleveland Crafts Company was...“ . 17S
Cosom Industries we...  169
C. V. Mosby Company 176
DirncoGray Company . 199
Exposition Press ..-__... 201

Fleming H. Reveil Company Inside back cover
The FIXIBIE Company ..... -_ .....-...--....... 174
Gold Medal Products  180
Handweaver & Craftsman ._ Inslde back cover
' ' rich 8. Bradsby _ -..._. Inslde front cover
. it R. Manufacturing Company s...“ s..- 201
.. ~- s Spencer a Company .._,,.___ c. 201
Jayfro Athletic Supply Company  ..._ 203
The MacGregor Company ..._._ Inside back cover

 
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
  
    
   
  
  
  
      

 n roe Company “Wm..- .  199
ational Sports Company . _.... 201
tional Studios _._____.__.- ...._.- 176

rganization Services. Incorporated

Inside front cover
arks A Recreation Magazine

Inside back cover

eter Carver Associates H .....  180
rogra-m Aids Company _.- . . Inside front cover
ronto Sales Mm..-“ ....... ... 176
. F. Twardzik A Company .._- Inside front cover
.8. Defense Bonds conned"... Back cover
. S. Rubber Reclaiming Company ..._..__... 177
it ._.______.__.__._.______._.___..____.._._. 177

if

man/we

FOL DIN G
BANQUET

TABLES

 

 

 

I’
l
I

  
  
 
 
 

    

Direct Factory
Fri 0 5 Discount.
1’. hatchet. Clubl.

    

  
      
 

Lodqeu. School.
1 All Organiza-
t .10.

 
 

Over 50.000 In-
stitution: own
and use modern
lonroe Folding
IIIQ’IJM Tables.

Write [or the ueur
MONROE} 515T
ANXlt'tiitRA II T
(‘ATALUG of
Eioldinx Tables.
touting Churn.
Trucks. Movable
g'aniliptml-‘oid- -
u: . etc. .

Get our rectal prices. a 
quantity laments. also terms.

Monroe Co., TIT Church St” Colfax. Iowa

 
  
  

      
 

AND
MONROE TRUCKS

~Uv-

    
   
 

 
  
    

 
   
    
  

AY 1959

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING

RATES: Words in regular type 8.15 each
Words In boldface type 5.25 each
Minimum ad accepted .

DEADLINES: Copy must be received by
thc titlh oi the month preceding date of
the issue in which ad is desired.

COPY: TypHr elearty print—your message and the address to which you wish
replies sent. Underline any words you want to appear in botdtace type.

Send copy with remittance to:
RECREATION Classified Advertising, 8 West Eighth Street. New York I], New York

IIEIJ' \VANTED

Recreation Directors
(men and women). Salary
range $380-$490. Excellent
chance for those with B. S.
in recreation to join pro-
gressive Oakland stall. Var-
ied assignments and goorl
promotional possibilities.
Examinations may be held
near applicants’ homes.
Write to: Civil Service
Board. Room 100.City llall,
Oakland. California.

Camp Counselors. South-
ern Michigan. Coed. Pri-
vate. State experience. Lil)-

eral salary for teachers.
Lake of the Woods Camp,

800] Dorehester Avenue,
Chicago, Illinois.

Teachers. Sports. Arts. In-
dian and Nature Lore.

Campcraft and Trips. For
Maine summer camps.
Write Box 105, Chestnut
Hill 67. Massachusetts.

Recreation Therapists
for California state hospi-
tals. Opportunity to plan
and conduct individual pa-
tient recreation as well as
special group activities; ex-
cellent equipment and fa-
eilities available. Positions
open to college graduates
with major in recreation or
recreation therapy. 1’0 ex-
perience required. Good
salaries; excellent merit
system and employee bene-
fits; promotional opportu-
nities. Write State Person-
nel Board, 80] Capitol Ave-
nue. Sacramento, Califor-
ma.

Executive Director, for
non-profit organization,
whose primary joh is to
promote hOsteling through
eanoeing. hiking, bicycling.
aml skiing. Must have abil-
ity to assume executive and
administrative responsibili-
ties, as well as direct pro-
gram based primarily upon
volunteers with aid of small
stafT. Group work or recrea-
tion background preferred,
with experience in pro-
granting for outdoor activi-
ties. Starting salary to
$8000, depending upon
qualifications and experi-
ence. Arthur Gill, Metro-
politan New York Council,
American Youth Hostels,
l4 West 8th Street, New
York 11.

The publisher assumes no responsibility for services or item: advertised here.

Shulllebourd

Fun For Everyone !

From 0 to 00 here is exciting recrea-
. Loon onioymont
for players and spectators.

Rugged, Dimco Fun-Glide
board sets or. available for both out-
door and indoor installation.

tion far all egos . .

Shah].-

10070 ALUMINUM
TABLE TENNIS TABLES

E N T I R E L Y CONSTRUCTED OF
HEAVY - DUTY ALUMINUM, exclu-
sively designed for intensive use in
all types of public recreotion oreos
locoted indoors ond outdoors.

o OUTLASTS all other ping-pong
tobles in public areas.

0 FOLDING and RIGID LEG
MODELS.

o Stondord size and boll-
bounce.

o No mointenonce or replace-
ment problems.

0 In 2 sections -——- 4‘ legs eoch
section. Eosily separated into
2 tables for mony other uses.

0 Attroctively finished in green
non-glare surfoce ond silver
lines.

Easy to install . . . low In uphopl . NATIONALLYUSEDFOR MANY

Il7rite today for colorful folder, "Let’s
Play Shofflehon ," containing corn-
pletc information on court layout and

equipment.

DIMCO-GRAY COMPANY

205 EAST SIXTH STREET

DAYTON 2. OHIO

 

When writing to our advertisrn please mention RECREATION.

YEARS in Colleges, Schools,
Clubs, Playgrounds, Gymno-
siums, etc.

For Full Details. Write:

All Metal Tennis Table Co.
P.O. Box T42, Teoneck, N. J.

199

 

 
 
 

 

A REPORTER’S NOTEBOOK

 

Retirement and Appointment

After years of long and distinguished
service to the citizens of Minneapolis.
in particular, and the cause of recrea-
tion and parks, generally, Charles E.
Doell retires as sapcrintendent of parks
in that city on May 8. During his tenure
on the board of park commissioners,
he long espoused the necessity for a
close tic-in between parks and recrea-
tion and presented this idea in the Jan-
uary, 1958, RECREATION, in “The Close
Relationship of Parks and Recreation.”

His successor is Howard I. Moore,
who has been with the Minneapolis Park
Department for thirty-four years. and.
since 1915, has been its secretary and
assistant attorney. He brings to the job
a wide range of experience, having
served in many different eapacities with-
in the department. One of the many
organizations with which Mr. Moore is
connected is the Mid-Continent Park
and Recreation Conference, which he
helped organize.

Outdoor Education

Bradford Woods, Indiana Univer-
sity’s twenty-three-hundred-acre forest,
is devoted in its entirety to recreation,
camping. and outdoor education. (It is
the national home of the American
Camping Association and the site of
several organized camps.) Leadership
training'in recreation, camping. out-
door education, and conservation will
be offered for graduate credit here, dur-
ing the summer of 1959, by the univer-
sity. Starting June 1, and extending
through August 23, courses will cover
school camping and outdoor education,
camping administration, social recrea-
tion, field problems, and conservation
education. On the faculty will be Rey~
nold E. Carlson, Robert Tully, Prevo
thitaker, visiting leaders from the uni-
versity, and various government agen~

200

cies. Further information may be ob-
tained from the Resident Director,

Bradford Woods, Martinsville, Indiana.

Third Degree

H. Douglas Sessoms, assistant in rec-
reation curriculum at the University of

North Carolina, holds a triple-degree
record for training in recreation lead~
ership. He has an AB. in recreation
from the University of North Carolina,
a master’s in recreation from the Uni-
versity of lllinois, and a Ph.D. in rec-
reation from New York University. In
addition, he has also had practical ex-
perience—all in all, a fine basis for good
teaching and leadership. Also interest-

ing is the fact that he is chairman of the

recreation commission in Chapel Hill
and is also on the Student Union board.

Hooray for Louisville!

Congratulations to the Louisville,
Kentucky, recreation department. All

and recreation department. He was out
of town.

It would be grand if every recreation
and park department could make the
one-hundred-per-cent claim. Let us

know about your department and send
pictures!

Up in the Air

Astronomy for the young—+One of the
eight popular courses offered during the
spring term at the American Museum-
Hayden Planetarium, in New York City,
is a series of Saturday morning lectures
for boys and girls from twelve to six-
teen on “Astronomy for Young People.”
The new course is especially designed
for youngsters seeking knowledge of the
solar system, the stars and galaxies, as
the space age becomes more and more
a concrete reality and less of a science-
fiction writer’s nebulous dream.

Such. a series might be an excellent
idea for summer recreation programs.
Evening “star hunts” or “star hikes”
might be fun. Is there a volunteer in
your community familiar with astron-
omy? Further information about such
a series can be procured from the
Planetarium, Central Park West at 81st
Street, New York 24.

Spoce~age jun—“Launching sites” in
Frederick, Maryland, last summer, were
the fourteen playgr'ounds scattered
about the city. Their entire summer pro-
gram was geared to a “Space-Age Fun”

 

year-round employees of the recreation
stall are associated for service with the
National Recreation Association and
are known as the NRA 100% Club. In
the accompanying photograph, Bill
Hay, NRA southern district represent-
ative, is shown with the hundred per
centers. The only missing face is that of
William Moore, director of the parks

theme, and its presentation, in the Fred-
erick summer report, is an effective one.

Selection of a special theme can bring
freshness and new zest to old or routine

activities and can be a peg on which to
hang many a new one. The space idea
was used by playgrounds in Corpus
Christi, Texas (see “Shooting for the
Moon,” on page 159), and in other

Raeaax'rrox

 

Among them have heen American In-

(lian, the circus, carnival, international.

Wild West, liobin Hood, pirate, and

other inspirations.

Accent on Youth

White House Conference—A ninety-
two-member national conunittee has
been appointed by President Eisen-
hower for the direction of the 1960 An-
niversary White House Conference on
Children and Youth. The President is
honorary chairman, and Arthur S.
Flemming, secretary of health, educa-
tion. and welfare, is honorary vice-chair-
man. Mrs. Rollin Brown of Los Angeles.
hoard memher of the National Recrea-
tion Association, is chairman of the
committee, and Mrs. Katherine B. Oct-
linger, chief of the Children’s Bureau,
is secretary. Other memhers, among
them, twelve vice-chairmen, are leaders
in the fields of education, health, social
work, recreation, religion, and so on,
who will serve on the committee as in-
I dividuals. Governors of many states
have already designated groups to pro-
i vide liaison with the conference, and
one meeting has heen held in Washing-
ton, D. C.

The conference is traditionally held
every ten years, for a nationwide stock-
taking of children's needs. In each con-
fcrencc. the President has given per-
sonal leadership.

I l'oungster wins savings bond—National

Recreation Month last year was cele-
IF brated in many different ways. Mem-

his. Tennessee, held an essay contest.
I )0]l."~0|‘€(l by the park commission, as
it”! of its observance. The winner was
ennie Lou Hall, seventeen. Her win-

   
  
     
      
   
   
  
     
  
   
 
    
 

' 1g entry. chosen ‘from over five hun-
rcd, appears below.
“What I like bcst about recreation
' the opportunity it affords one to grow
lysically, mentally, and socially. Team
recreation promotes fair play by par-
ticipants as well as a sense of respon-
ibility. while single-player activities
offer a chance for personal improve-
I'nent and achievement. I believe good
recreation keeps many young people

a row in stature, to think fast and to
hink fairly."
These words from the mouth of young

xv 1959

communities as well. Other themes,
however. can be as good or better.

mt of trouble, while it allows them to -

Miss llall are worth pondering weler

for as the twig is bent . . .

Encroaclnnent in \V ales

The chairman of the British National
Parks Commission has called the threat-
ened invasion of two national parks in
Wales by large-scale industrial installa-
tions “perhaps the greatest crisis that
has arisen in the history of the national
parks since the coming into force of the
[national park] act eight years ago.”
The installations include an atomic en-
ergy power station at Trawsfynydd in
Snowdonia National Park.

Useful Films

0 Free sports films are available from
the film section of the Miller Brewing
Company, 4000 W. State Street, Mil-
waukee 1, Wisconsin. These are all
16mm, sound films dealing with base-
ball, football, golf, skiing, and sport
highlights. The only expense is return
postage.

0 Mouth-to-mouth breathing, known to
man since Biblical days, has received
new recognition for saving lives as a
result of nearly ten years of extensive
research sponsored by the army, to im-
prove the treatment of nerve-gas casu-
alties. A new safety film, Rescue
Breathing, designed to teach the techni-
ques (mouth-to-mouth or mouth-to-
nosel, is now available from American
Film Producers, 1600 Broadway, New
York 19, New York.

The film was shot in color to show
the cyanotic blue color of suffocation
victims and the flush pink which bright-
ens the skin upon successful revival.
However, black-and-white prints are
also availahle, with sound, at 3110; full
color and sound, $200.

 

3n Klrmnriam

 

0 Mrs. Grace Thompson Seton, one of
the founders of the Camp Fire Girls,
died in March. She was also an author,

 

 

New, Improved Golden Age Club Pin.
Now In reoI gold plote with tree In
green |ewelers° enamel. Soiety coith.

_ 50¢ eocb. Including iederol tox ond
a: postoge.

Minimum order l0 pins
Available only to authentic clubs.

JAMES SPENCER I. CO.
22 N. 6th Street Phllodelpbio 6. Po.

 

EXACT SIZE

 

When wriling Io our adverlisers please mention RECREATION.

 

explorer, and a founder of the Society
of Women Geographers. Her daughter
is novelist Anya Seton. The Camp Fire
Girls developed from a girls' woodcra ft
group founded early in this century by
Mrs. Seton and her husband, and Dr.
and Mrs. Luther Halsey Culick. Dr.
Culick was one of the early leaders of
the National Recreation Association.

0 Oscar N. Taylor, publicist for the
Dade County, Florida, park system died
in April, at the age of sixty-two. Ile had

retired from the Army as a colonel in
19-17.

0 Robert M. Hanes, friend and advisor
of the National Recreation Association,
died in Winston-Salem, North Carolina,
in March. He was a sponsor of the NBA
in that city from 1936 to 1951: A bank-
er, Mr. Hanes was a former president
of the American: Bankers Association.

Free to WRITERS

seeking a book publisher

Two fact-filled. illustrated brochures tell how
'to publish your book, get 40% royalties. na-
tional advertising. publicity and promotion.
Free editorial appraisal. Write Dept. 3-5

Exposition Press / 386 41h Av... N.Y. 16

 

 

  
  

Write for 01.1an

I II ll 1'! II II II I.
596% Cmpw '
I 370 NORTH MAROU'ETIE. FORD Dtl LIE. WIS.

    
  

 

 

NEW AND IMPROVED

RYAN’S H. & R.

DRY LINE MARKERS

s oarrsamr MODELS
From 20,4“;L to 'IOO# Capacity

Force Feed — lnetont
Shutotl — 50 lbs. to-
pocIty.

Shelter In Hepper lot
Constant Flow.

Adlustoble Control on
Hand-lo.

SAVES TIME AND
MATERIAL

Send to Dept. R for booklet on {our other models
H. I. R. MFG. CO., LOS ANGELES 34, CALIF.

 

 

201

For further information regarding
any of Ihese products, write directly
Io {he manufaclm'er. Please mention
that you saw it in RECREATION.

Jean “7 aclll-el

 

 

0 Cosom Industries makes a light-
weight bat. weighing about a half pound
with a matched, one-ounce ball, for the
use of children in the four-to-ten age
bracket not allowed regulation bats and
balls. Made of high-density polyethyl-
ene, the thirty-inch bat is regulation
shape, to help the child get accustomed
to what he will later be using, also to
aid his skill and coordination. The ball,
made of the same material, has circular
surface holes, to limit the flight path,
yet assure true hit. As neither ball nor
bat will break windows nor Inar walls or
woodwork, they can be safely used with-
in a rcslricted space, small outdoor rec-
reation areas, ncar swimming pools.
and indoors. For details about this and
other Cosom products and the dealer
nearest you, write Cosom Industrics.
6020 Wayzata Boulevard, Minneapolis
16, Minnesota.

 

0 Since many families cannot afford the initial outlay for
complete camping equipment, yet have a car and'want to
camp outdoors, recreation departments have bcen providing
camp-equipment rcntal services. A good product to consider
for this service is the Giant Pop-Tent, which is large enough
to sleep four adults
in uncrowded com-
fort and comes in
-, two vcrsions —— Ci-
ants l and II. Onc
is for stationwagon
camping and is
equippcd with a
 universal tailgate

enclosure, which,
when attached to the back of the wagon, providcs a continu-
ous shelter area in tent and car. The other is for regular
camping. The tent is 61/?! high, 9' in diameter, and has in-
side poles. A tough fiberglass rib structure, with a patented.
simple locking device keeps the fabric taut. Pop-Tent was
shown at the Brussels World’s Fair and was also featured
in the Ford “Station Wagon Living” traveling show. For
complete information, write Pop-Tent Corporation, Clinton,
Michigan. - -

 

0 Bulletin boards are essential for any recreation center,
of whatever size, but they are not always things of beauty
and the necessary, large, cut-out letters take hours of tedious
work to produce. Mutual Aids makes large colorful, letters,
available for instant display use. They come in a variety

202

of bright colors; sets of two-inch capitals (180); numbers
and signs; and 1%” manuscript type (240); are easily
mounted with a reusable adhesive. Free samples and further

information may be obtained by writing Mutual Aids, Dept.
42, 1946 Hillhurst Avenue, Los Angeles 27, California.

0 The chlorine level and pH
factor are extremely important
in a swimming pool, from the
health standpoint of its uscrs,
and have to be constantly tested.
The compactly designed Life-
gard Swimming Pool Test Kit,
devised to make these tests with
speed and accuracy, consists of
a molded, clear Lucite test-cell
unit, with permanent lifetime
color guide and two polyethylene bottles of testing solutions,
with self-hinged bottle caps. The carrying case, made of Hi-
lmpact Styrene, has a self-locking. hinged cover. Instruc-
tions for use are pcrmancntly printed inside it. Additional
information from Rainbow Plastics, 3232 North Meeker
Avenuc, El Monte, California.

 

0 Vcrsatility and space-saving are the two main attractions
of Showergon, a multiple showcr componcnt, available in
units of four, six, eight, ten, or twelve shower stations, in
a back-to-back arrangement. The basic stainless steel unit

 

cmbodies concealed piping, shower combinations, and
soap facilities; construction and fixtures utilize vandal-
proof screws. All functional parts are readily accessible
from the front for service and maintenance. Versatility is
supplied in the many and varied kinds of mounting that
can he employed—free standing, low wall, back to back,
floor to ceiling, or wall to wall. For complete information,
write Logan Manufacturing Company, PO. Box 111, Glen-
dale, California.

RECREATION

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
     
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
     
   

Magazine Articles

 

TIIE AMERICAN CIIILD. March 1959.
Issue on Job Placement for Teenagers.
TIIE CAMP FIRE GIRL, April I959.
So Much Fun in the Planning, Virginia
Demon.
Camp Fire Girls Conservation Projects.
JOIIPER, February 1959.
The Challenge of Dance Therapy, Claudia
Chapline Hood.
What Is New in Square Dancing? Illin'am
Cray.
Folk Festivals, Edward D. Allen.
NEA JOI'RNAL, March l959.
IIow Fit Are Our Youth? Paul llansiclcer.
Tailor Your TV Programs, Lee Dadek.
Flint Strikes Fire, Frank .-llanley.
On Behalf of the Arts, llelen C. Bailey.
PARENTS', April l 959.
They Went to a Fishing School.
When Teenagers Want to Work, Dorothy
Siege}.
PARK MAINTENANCE, February [959.
Living Museums Now or Never, Robert W.
Schery.
PARKS AND RECREATION, January l959.
Anothcr Battle Line Forms in the War on
Encroachment, Harold Schick.
Are We Losing the Battle "for Park Land?
1. Wood.
Fitness: Recreation IIas a Responsibility,
Arthur S. Daniels.
RECREATION MANACEMENT, March 1959.
Who's What in Recreation.

Books & Pamphlets
Received

Administration, Personnel

GROUNDS MAINTENANCE HANDEOOK(2ndEd.1,
II. S. Conover. F. W. Dodge, 119 W. 40Ih
St., New York 18. Pp. 501. $10.75.

lN-SERvICE TRAININC MANUAL FOR BOYS'
CLUE WORKERS. Boys’ Clubs of America,
381 4th Ave., New York 16. Pp. 20. Paper,
$1.00.

.OCAL, STATE, FEDERAL RECULATION OE BOAT-
INc AND RELATED AQUATIC SPORTS IN CALI-
FORNIA. Documents Section, SIaIe Printing
Otlicc, Sacramento 14. Pp. 50. Paper, $1.00
(plus $.04 for California addresses).

PARK DISTRICT MANUALS: HELP EOR

PARK BOARDS AND PARK AND RECREATION

EQUIPMENT, SUPPLY, AND SERVICE FIRMS,

pp. 11; IIELPS EOR ILLINOIS PARK DISTRICT

BOARDS, pp. 22; PARK AND RECREATIONAL

FACILITIES EOR YOUR COMMUNITY, pp. 20.

Illinois Association of Park Districts, 522

Monroe St., Springfield. Paper, $1.00 each.

MINING, Geoffrey Baker and Bruno Funaro.
Reinhold Puhlishing, 430 Park Ave., New

York 22. Pp. 202. $9.50.
ERSONNEL RESEARCII FRONTIERS, Cecil E.
Geode. Public Personnel Assoc., 1313 E.
6011I St., Chicago. Pp. 176. Paper, $3.50.
ROPOSED MINIMUM STANDARDS EOR PUBLIC
POOLS. NaIional Swimming Pool Institute,
Harvard State Bank Bldg” flarvard, 1”.
Pp. 16. Free.

PURIIC RECREATION ACENCIEs:

I
Comparative

Av 1959

Data, Finances and Personnel, 1958-59. Cal-
ifornia Recreation Commission, Documents

Section, State Printing 011ice, Sacramento,
California. Pp. 51. Paper, 81.00 (plus $.04
for California addresses).

ROADS, Fou W. Boardmau, Jr. Ilenry Z.
Walck, 101 5th Ave., New York 3. Pp. 143.
$3.50.

SALARIES AND RELATED PERSONNEL PRACTICES
IN VOLUNTARY SOCIAL AND IIEALTII ACEN-

CIES IN NEW YORK CITY, SepIemher, 1958.
Community Council of Greater New York,

345 E. 45th St., New York 17. Pp. 49. $2.50.
SPOTLIUIIT ON COMMUNITY ORCANIZATIO .‘s‘r— ~

A Career for You. United Comnquin
Funds and Councils of America, 345 E. 46th
St., New York 17. Brochure. Free.

YOI'R SWIMMING POOL. YMCA, 15 Spadina
Rd., Toronto 4, Ontario, Canada. Pp. 127.
Paper, $1.00.

American Scene, Sociology

CIIANCINO AMERICA, A: At Work and Play,

“rilbert Zelomek. .1 Olin Wiley, 4-10 4111 A W"
New York 16. Pp. 181. $3.95.

CAN AMERICA AFFORD BETTER SCIIOOIS? Na-
tional Education Assoc., 1201 16Ih S1.,
N.W., Washington 6, I).C. Reprint. Frce.

CONTEMPORARY SOCIOLOCY, Joseph S. Roucek,
Editor. Philosophical Library, 15 E. 40th
St., New York 16. Pp. 1209. $12.00.

EDUCATION AND FREEDOM, Admiral 11. G.
Rickover. E. P. Dutton, 300 4th Ave., New
York 10. Pp. 256. $3.50.

Coon NEICIIIIORS (Community Welfare Coun-
cils), ElizaheIh Ogg. Public Affairs Com-
miItee, 22 E. 38111 St., New York 16. Pp. 28.
$.25.

INDUSTRIAL SOCIETY AND SOCIAL WELFARE,
Harold L. Wilensky and Charles N. Le-
beaux. Russell Sage Foundation, 505 Park
Ave., New York 22. Pp. 401. $5.00.

MASS LEISURE, Eric Larrahec and Rolf Meyer-
sohn, Editors. Free Press, 119 W. Lake St.,
Chicago 1. Pp. 429. $6.00.

111 and Handicapped

MENTALLY RETARDED IN SOCIETY, TIIE, Stan-
Icy Powell Davies. Columbia University
Press, 2960 Broadway, New York 27. Pp.
248. $5.50.

YOUR COMMUNITY AND MENTAL HEALTH,
EIizaheIh M. Dach. Public Affairs Pamph-
lets, 22 E. 38th St., New York 16. Pp. 28.
$.25.

Senior Citizens

CREATIVE YEARS, TIIE, Reuel L. Ilowe. Sea-
bury Press, Greenwich, Conn. Pp. 239.
$3.50.

MAKING TIIE MOST OF YOUR YEARS, Evelyn
Hart. Public Affairs Committee, 22 E. 38111
St., New York 16. Pp. 28. 5.25.

N. Y. STATE ACTIVITIES IN TIIE FIELn or TIIE
ACINC, 1955-58. Office of the Special Assist-
ant, Problems of the Aging, StaIe Capitol,
Albauy. Pp. 44. Free.

ORCANIZED RELICION AND TIIE OLDER PERSON,
Dclton L. Scudder, Editor. University of
Florida Press, Gainesville. Pp. 113. Paper,
$2.50.

RETIREMENT PLANNINC GUIIIEIIOOK. Retirc-
menI Council, One Atlantic St., Stamford,
Conn. Pp. 96. Paper, $2.50.

SALUTE TO TIIE ACINC. Office of the Special
Assistant, Problems of the Aging, SIate

Capitol, Albany, N. Y. Pp. 75. Free.

NOTE: The correct price of thnOWEIIS or

TIIE SIERRAS, listed in the March issue, is $.55.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

CO PLETE
swbuno
SYSTEM
BY
CALI FON E

A Sound Approach to Health
' and Physical Education

 

PROMENADE Model 25V-8A

Lightweight, Portable, Powerful...the
Califone PROMENADE'S single-unit
construction makes it ideal for use
indoors, outdoors, athletic field or
gymnasium.

Variable speed control for classes in
rhythms, movement fundamentals.
Excellent P. A. System for games and
other physical education requirements
to 3500 persons.

Califone’s exclusive “CUEMASTER”
providing instantaneous phrase selec-
tion or momentary pause at any desired
part of a record, is optional on many
Califone models.

Protessional Net . . . $189.50
With Cuemaster, $10.00 additional

Write Dept. R -2
califo'ne

CORPORATION
1041 NO. SYCAMOR‘E AVE.
NO'llYWOO'O a. CALI-F.

 

fir/'0
BASKETBAII

STEEL CHAIN
H15

3 Year! Guarantee!
outdoors or Indoors

Also featuring Jaylro‘l custom built

ALUMINUM MULTI-PURPOSE STANDARDS
NYLON BB NETS 8. BALL CARRIERS
TETHERBALL POLES 8- PADDLE SETS
ALUMINUM SHUFFLEBOARD SETS
ALUMINUM BATTING TEES

JAYFRO ATHLETIC SUPPLY CO.
Dept. R, Io: 1065, NEW LONDON, CONN.

 

203

 

Creativity—An Examination of the
Creative Process, Poul Smith, Editor.
Hastings House, I5I Eost 50th Street,
New York 22. Pp. 206. $4.95.

\Vhat are creative ideas? How do we
go about getting one? Is there any
training which develops creativity?
Herc is not only fascinating but excel-
lent background reading, for any lead-
er for for any thoughtful adult). This
book. a unique exploration of the nature
of the creative process, is the result of
a stimulating conference of the Art Di-
rectors Club of New York and thc “give
and take” of its discussions and debates.

Each aspect of creativity is prescnted
by a different speaker; for instance:
“The Psychology of the Creative Per-
sonality,” by Dr. Gregory Zilboorg, a
New York psychiatrist; “Creativity in
Research." by E. Finley Carter, dircetor
of the Stanford Research Institute in
Mcnlo Park. California; “Creativity in
Visual Communication,” by Saul Bass,
a West Coast graphic artist. designer.
and consultant; and so on. This collec-
tion of articles would be particularly
helpful to those recreation directors
who put out printed materials of any
sort, who do quitc a bit of public speak-
ing. or who want to use a creative ap-
proach to their jobs.

Program in Girl Scout Comping. Girl
Scouts of the U.S.A., 830 Third Avenue,
New York 22. Pp. 277. $I.50.

This is a detailcd, complete, up-to-
the-minute book covering all aspects of
camp programing. Among other items,
it lists the seven basic skills of camping,
and includes valuable information on
camp government. planning for special
events. camp living under all weather
conditions. It describes a wide range of
programs in the performing and hand
arts, as well as activities in nature,
sports, and games.

The reader will find that the book
contains a wealth of general camping
know-how which should prove most
helpful to persons working in, or inter-
ested in, outdoor camping, counseling
or recreation fields. An extensive ap-
pendix containing practical informa-
tion on camp living through how-to in-

204

PUBLICATIONS

Covering the Leisure-time Field

structions and illustrations serves to
increase its appeal and use.

As a companion piece, the Ci rl Scouts
have just released a new 16mm sound
film in color called Camp Time, Any
Time, based on information contained
in the book, and shows many creative
program ideas being carried out in ac-
tual camps. It sells for $120, rents for
$4.25, the first day, and half pricc for
each day thereafter. .

Indian Picture Writing, Robert Hof-
sinde (Gray-Wolf). William Morrow,
425 Fourth Avenue, New York I6. Pp.
96. $2.50.

Day-camp leaders, playground direc-
tors, and all those conducting an Indian
program, this is for you! Picture writ-
ing has ever been an interesting and
primitive way of expressing thoughts
and recording events; in this book, the
author presents 248 pictures used by
the American Indian, and their captions
contain colorful information about this
culture. An index makes it easy to lo-
cate the symbol for a given object. Thc
simplicity of the symbols make them
easy to reproduce in designs for paint-
ing. decorations, beadwork, and so on.

Weother in Your Life, Irving Adler.
John Day, 62 West 45th Street, New
York 36. Pp. I26. $3.00.

Written for young peOplc, this inter-
esting little book should appeal to any-
one who would like to be his own weath-
erman. It should be excellcnt, too, for
campers or camp counselors who are
sctting up a weather station. There is a
whole chapter on weather forecasting,
with a simple table of weather signs.
This is one of a series of books by the
same author, two familiar ones being

The Toofs of Science and Man-Made

Moons.

Camping ond Comp Crofts, Gordon
Lynn. Golden Press, 630 Fifth Avenue,
New York 20. Pp. II2. $I.95.

Campers of all ages will find this a
treasury of illustrated how-to informa-
tion. Hundreds of detailed color pic-
tures give step-by-step instructions for

perfecting camp skills. Extra features
include a list of essential camp clothing
and gear, a map of the United States
that pinpoints public campgrounds. The
author and his family have camped all
over this country and Europe, and he
passes along many helpful hints for nov-
ice and experienced campers, alike, as
to equipment, packing, types of trips,
setting up camp, cooking, nature activi-
ties, and other matters important to a
successful summer outing.

RESOURCES AND REFERENCES

The wise recreation leader and ad-
ministrator knows his booklets! There
is a wealth of inexpensive or free pam-
phlets, brochures, and leaflets at his
disposal. Note the following—and
please mention RECREATION Magazine.

Forest Activities is full of interesting
outdoor and nature projects for play-
grounds or camps. This is directed to
Scout leadcrs, but is equally applicable

to other youth groups. Free, US. Forest
Service, Washington 25, D.C.

1

Day Camping for the Cerebral Pal-
sied and Swimming for the Cerebral
Palsied. Thc cerebral-pa'sied child will
perhaps feel his or her plight more
sharply in the summer months when
other children are at camps, romping
in the sun. These two free pamphlets.
to help set up day-camp programs for
this neglccted group, are available from
United Cerebral Palsy Associations, 321
West 44th Street, New York 36.

The 1959 Camping Directory lists
over three thousand camps associated
with the American Camping Associa-
tion. Its 276 pages include location ofl
camp, name, and address of owner or!
operating organization, fees, facilities,'
program features, and so on. Available -
for fifty cents from the association.I

Bradford Woods, Martinsville, Indiana.

Methods 0/ Measuring the Deman
for and V afue of Outdoor Recreation
by Marion Clawson is the latest of an
excellent series of reprints on subject-
of interest to those in the recreation
field. ( See his “Recreation Land Re-
sonrces . . . for the Year 2000,” RECRE-
ATION, January, 1959.) Other titles in-
elude The Nationaf Environment of
Urban Growth and Highway Construc-
tion by Edward A. Ackerman, Th
Changing Refations of Naturaf Re-
sources to National Security by H. J.
Barnett, and Concepts in Regionaf Eco-
nomic Devefopment byloseph L. Fisher.
Available from Resources for the Fu-
ture, 1145 19th Street, N.W., Washing
ton 6, D.C. Single copies are free, ad
ditional c0pies at low cost.

 
   
   
 
  
 

RECREATIO

FOR 61 YEARS

PARKS & RECREATION

MAGAZINE

has been serving the park and

recreation fields

written, edited and produced
by people experienced in the
operation of parks and

recreation facilities

PARKS 8. RECREATION MAGAZINE

The Journal of the

 

Amorlcan Institute of Park Executives, Inc.

"The Choice of Those
Who Play The Game"

-_..-_..-_+----___-_

    

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
+----------
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
l
I
l
l
I
I
I

 

 

Look to MacGregor first for the finest in all sp0rts equipment.
The MacGregor Co. 0 Cincinnati 32, Ohio

m

BOB RICHARDS —

THE HEART OF A
rag-EC" CHAMPION

 
   
 

   

BOI) Richards

shows what it
takes to win in
the Olympics,
and in life. He
tells inspiring
stories of the winners . .

Roger Bannister, Boh Ma-
thias, CiI Dodrls, Bahe Did-
rikson, Carl Erskine . . . and
the losers, too. This exciting
Sports book will help you
and your young people relate
your athletic program to its
wider framework of charac-
ter building and prepara-

tion for life. $2.50

At your bookstore
mm: It. mm mm. Ratchet:

 

 

 

FOOTBALL ' BASEBALL ' BASKETBALL ' GOLF ' TENNIS
Handweaver
8- Craftsman NEW
 r in  INTERESTING
.  “I o y ,I PROJECTS
5' '1  AND
or F— *«gf~:_ IDEAS
' - g‘ " FOR
- “I WEAVERS

-. 1‘

Single Copies $1.25

Published Quarterly —— 64 Informative Pages

Write today for brochure and prices on back issues.

A subscription to Ilantlweaver & Craftsman and a complete file
of back issues will provide you with a live weaving library.

Handweaver & Craftsman
III-3PT. R. 245 FIFTH AVENUE. NEW YORK I

Single copy $I.25. I yr. 34. 2 yrs. $7.50. 3 yrs. SIG. 5 yrs. SIS

l'nn .errimn and foreign 5! extra

m
r i
.
I if‘
'I
I
L r
.
n‘
I
I
' I
l .
———-————————————————_——_—.___

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

HELP US KEEP THE
THINGS WORTH KEEPING

Nobody has to tell you why
you want peace. You see it in
your child’s eyes and hear it in
her laughter.

But just wanting peace won’t
keep it. You need to back your
wanting with money. Peaee
costs money.

Money for strength to keep
the peace. Money for science
and education to help make
peace lasting. And money saved
by individuals to help keep our
eeonomy strong.

Your Savings Bonds, as a
direct investment in your coun—
try, make you a Partner in
strengthening America’s Peaee
Power.

The chart below shows how
the bonds you buy will earn
money for you. But the most
important thing they earn is
peace.

Think it over. Are you buy-
ing as many as you might?

HOW YOU CAN REAGH YOUR SAVINGS GOAL
WITH SERIES E SAVINGS BONDS

(in Inst 8 years, I! months)

still“ 52.500 $5.000 $10,000

   

HELP STRENGTHEN AMERICA‘S PEACE POWER

BUY U. S. SAVINGS BONDS

«IMO

I

.13 Ci?- l
O
The U .8. Government does not pay for this advertising. The Treasury Department thanks  f

The Advertising Council and this magazine for their patriotic donation. 3.00 359* I

