 

SAVES SPACE . . . FOLDS FACE TO FACE!

 
     
    

ALL-AMERICAN HEAVY-DUTY

picnic GRILLS

Mk...  a  

u _._ _.

Features Not Found Easi-Fold Rolling
In Any Other Grin _ _ TABLE TENNIS TABLE

Built just like a small, com- ‘
plete cooking range. Positive

   
 
   
    
   

Stillionary POMble 6-way draft control gives faster, ‘
pselrlggzgzt "Tuggtae: easier kindling, saves fuel, in-
installation complete, sores tenderer, juicier steaks,

s 49.8 5 chops, barbecues. Cooks, bakes,

warms—burns charcoal, wood
or coal. Grill revolves to per-
mit cooking to windward. Cast
of heavy stove iron with steel
pipe support, for lifetime serv-
ice. Shipped fully assembled.

$43.70

Weight ISO lbs. Weight 205 lbs.

PATENT PENDING

* Write for Literature on sill-American Picnic Grills, Heavy-
Duty Picnic Tables, Park Benches and Grain Link Tennis Nets l

AMERICAN

PLAYGROUND DEVICE (0., ANDERSON, IND.

WORLD'S LARGEST anuuracruncns or- rmr PARK r-zmr. SUPERIOR INDUSTRIES CORPORATION
PLAYGROUND catatonic root can outcome Emu EQl IPMEN 520 can..- 5m  N. .. Yo", 59, N, y . my,” 9.;vn

Easy as 1-2-3 . . . for busy institutional worker or harried house-
wile. Folds automatically! Has large wheels on steel chassis;
solid-edge protected steel frame; built-in. metal-end net; granite-
hard Formlunt playing surface. Write today for color catalog.

 

TWO IMPORTANT NEW McGRAW-HILL BOOKS

INTRODUCTION TO COMMUNITY RECREATION

By GeorgeD. Butler, director of research and assistant executive director, National Recrea-
tton Assocratton. Third Edition. 80 photographs. 562 pages, $7.50.

Introduction to Community Recreation is a thorough revision of a well-known and
highly respected text and reference book. It offers a comprehensive picture af com-
munity recreation in the United States—its nature, importance, scope, and develop-
ment. The book completely outlines the growth of the community recreation move-
meat and describes the activities and services comprising the community recreation

program. the indoor and outdoor arcas and facilities used for recreation, the leader-
ship personnel and IIS methods of organizing and conducting activities.

RECREATIONAL USE OF WILD LANDS

By C. Frank Brockman. professor of forestry. University of Washington. Photographs.
346 pages. $8.50. McGraw-Hill American Forestry Series.

The first textbook to be published in the rather specific but increasingly important
area of forest and wild-land recreation management. The author is a well-known au-
thority in this field. Although designed primarily for forestry students, the book also
serves as a useful reference for studcnts in allied fields, and for those who are inter-
cstcd in outdoor recreation, whether by reason of their work or their avocations.

.Scrrtl for Copies on Approval

McGRAW—HILL BOOK COMPANY, Inc.
330 West 42nd St. New York 36, N. Y.

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

Th BATof 1h CHAMPIONS

 

SEPTEMBER 1959

 

) TIIE DEPARTMENT OF TIIE INTERIOR
has again endorsed the principle of sta-
tutory recognition of a wilderness pres-
ervation system. This view was ex-
pressed in the department’s report in
June to the Senate Committee on In-
terior and Insular Affairs on this legis-
lation, embodied in Senate bill S. 1123.
Make your views known to your Con-
gressman, NOW, before it’s too late.

) TIIE FIRST THREE MONTHS OF 1959
broke the travel record in national
parks, according to the National Park
Service. Visitors totaled 7,119,000, an
increase of 2-1.5 percent over the same
period last year.

) A SPECIAL STUDY is currently being
conducted by the federal government
on services to the field of special edu-
cation (handicapped) and rehabilita-
tion. Study Objectives are to discover
the unmet needs in all these areas;
screen findings with the purpose Of sug-
gesting practical methods of solving the
most pressing of them; review ade-
quacy of services now available; ascer-
tain duplication of services. if any, in-
cluding waste of federal funds, if any;
prepare legislation. if necessary, to
achieve the foregoing. Among the na-
tional and private agencies involved in
this study is the NRA’s Consulting Serv-
ice on Recreation for the Ill and Handi-
capped. The federal study staff will get
from each agency its suggested pro-
grams to meet needs in each area and
will utilize their professional staff as
consultants when necessary.

} APPOINTMENT: Joseph Prendergast
has been appointed to the subcommittee
on Organization of Subject Matter, Pro-
cedure and Theme, for the 1961 White
House Conference on the Aging. Con-
ference theme will be Aging with a Fu-
ture—Every Citizen’s Concern.

) 1N CELEBRATION of its fifty years of
recreation, Oakland, California, has put
out a beautiful and informative bro-
chure on the history of its department,
what it has done through the years,
what it is doing now, and hopes to in the
future. The brochure is profusely illus-

254

trated with photographs, a map Of rec-
reation facilities, including camps, and
spot drawings. We herewith extend
hearty congratulations and warm wish-
es for another prosperous fifty years.

) “BOY-GIRL TOUR 0F TIIE UNITED NA-
TIONS,” an article in the March, 1959,
issue Of Seventeen. contained fascinat-
ing details and beautiful photos. Con-
sult it when planning your UN Day cele-
bration this year. It has all sorts of in-
formation about the United Nations to
interest your teenagers. (The article
was written by a 19-year-old girl and
an 18-year-old boy.) In another article
in that issue, Dag Hammerskjold an-
swers questions and tells teenagers what
they can do to help make the UN work.

) RECENTLY OFF PRESS, the Mill in a
series of NRA bulletins on completed
research, Research in Recreation Com-
pleted in 1958, contains reports of 227
studies. To facilitate use of this publi-
cation. listings are grouped under fif-
teen beadings. Costing one dollar, it
should be useful to colleges and uni-
versities offering recreation courses. al-
so to leaders and agencies concerned
with recent research.

) AS OF MAY 1, 1959, fourteen states
have passed legislation to implement
the Federal Boating Act of 1958 f the
Bonner Actl.

)- NOTIIING Is As I-‘RL'STRATINC as re-
ceiving provocative or beautiful photo-
graphs without any identification Or ex-
planatory information, written clearly
and gently on the back (if you write too
hard on a photo, it comes through on
the other sidel. We are not clairvoy-
ant, honest! When you send pictures,
please identify them; give the names,
if any, of the people thereon, and clear
with them; state whether you wish them
returned; and supply us with any other
pertinent facts needed. Do not deface
photographs by using paper clips or
staples.

At this point, our Thanksgiving pic-
ture folder is sadly depleted. We would
be most grateful for any good, clear,
glossy, 8”-by-10"s you may have of

particularly good Thanksgiving activi-
ties, festivals, celebrations, Or what-
have-you. Thank you!

) NO DOUBT RECREATION readers have
noticed that new department inaugu-
rated several months ago, called “State
and Local Developments.” This section
consists. for the most part, Of news
about bond issues, new recreation fa-
cilities, land acquisition, and innova-
tions on the recreation horizon. Have
a look at some past issues; then send
us your contributions. What are you
building? Planning? Developing?

) T0 STIMULATE AND PROMOTE aquatic
research, the Women’s National Aqua-
tic Forum has established the Haze]
\Vilbraham Research Grant, to be
awarded annually to one or more quali-
fied women in the profession, either
graduate students or workers. Appli-
cants, or those desiring to apply, should
do so immediately to: Miss Gertrude
Coss. 20 Chestnut Street, Melrose, Mass-
achusetts.

) A quarterly bulletin, The AYH News-

letter, is now being published by Amer-
ican Youth Hostels. in place of its
former newsletter. Justin Cline, AYH
executive director, has asked for sug-
gestions. Send them to him at AYH,
14 \Vest 8th Street, New York 11.

) REAPPOIN'I‘MENT: Joseph Prender-
gast has been appointed for the third
time to the President’s Citizens Advi-
sory Committee on the Fitness of Amer-
ican Youth. This committee met with
the President’s Council on Youth Fit-
ness. which includes cabinet members,
on August 9.

Congress News

0 TIIE OCTOBER ISSUE OF RECREATION
Magazine will contain about eight pages
devoted exclusively to various facets of
the National Recreation Congress: floor
plans of the Hotel Morrison, a Chicago
street map, things to do and see in Chi-
cago, location of churches and syna-
gogues, list of exhibitors and booth
numbers, tips for recorders, and lots
of other very useful information. The
issue will be out in mid-September.
Don’t miss it!

0 SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, before the
Congress is Officially under way, you
are especially invited to attend a special
meeting at the Hotel Morrison, at 8:30
P.1u. At that meeting, Mr. Prendergast
would like to discuss the plans Of the
National Cultural Center and the Out-
door Recreation Resources Review
Commission. Between now and then
think of what you would like tO see
these new agencies achieve. Be prepared
to talk over your ideas and opinions.

RECREATION

l SEPTEMBER 1959

   

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

Editor in Chief. J oszrn Paannzncasr

a 1
Editor, Done-rat Donawson . C O N T 13 1‘ T S

Assistant to the Editor, J can \VACHTEL

 

 

Business Manager, RALPH C. Mounts GENERAL FEATURES
ASSOCIATE 39110115 The Rig of Heart (Editorial) . . . . . . . . Grant I). Brandon 25
Recreation Adinlni-"m‘ions GEORGE BUTLER Graduate Assistance Awards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 259
PWSmm AC‘iVi‘i“. vmcmu MUSSEWAN Sports Yield Youth Fitness . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 261
N '3' k’ R" - ' 2':

VOL. LIL Price 50 Gems NO. 7 e“ or s l"th ’Doollonr RackynOrd . . rt. abetlt Fagg Old: 262

Recreation . . . A I osrttve Force tn Preventive Medicine
Alexander Reid r‘lfartin, ALI). 265
b 0n the Cover Art Room Planning . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . John R. Miridenta 266
For the recreation director tomorrow is already \Ve’re Headed for the Congress . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 270

here. For him, Labor Day does not mean a hiatus

from summer programs hm sounds "1c warning Tips on VlSlllng Exhibits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 283

kncll that he had better have his Halloween and James Edward Rogers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 289
I ghfiSlmnS 87033331115 5.91 3?“ Erel’iirf'llgns we" 11:3" 1959 Congress l'rogrnut Digest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 291

er wav. ne In erm 00 at ns t e nrtmen s p . , .,

(an and wimer Hiram: and “is time '2 [ake on Do \on know an lntern? . . . . . . . . . W'tllard C. Sutherland 272

for [he Nmimm] Rem-cation Congress in Chicago, Resources and References . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 296

September 28—October 2. Cover photograph cour-

tesy Massie—Missouri Resources Division.

ADMINISTRATION
Next Month r
. State and Local Developments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 268

The October issue W1" be off press before Congress Credo for A "mi 3 _8

time and contain all the information you need to q 0‘ ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ° ' ° ' ' ' ' ' ' ° ' ° ° ' 2‘

make your sojourn at the Congress a memorable A L00" Ahead 8' Land!" 311" Facililics (P311 2)

one. The issue will also salute our two new states: George Butler 284

Hawaii 1"“! AlaSkai examine recrealio“ in England Research Reviews and Abstracts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 287

- s. ‘ « °
figgifiigaill;§;l;:::eq all: [lgépfggggaoog 312?;23131613? Making Money—Antomaticnlly . . . . . . Benjamin Sherman 288
give construction dctails of two new ice rinks in Notes for the Administrator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 290
Essex County. New Jersey; tell the story of a dem-
onstration project to sct up a community program

in recrcntion lor the ill and handicapped; and ex- PROGMRI

plain thc role of social agencies in rccreation plan- _

ning. Strictly from Corn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . r‘llanrie Rogers 27
. . Try the Olympic Pattern . . . . . . . . . . Robert N. Ostrander 279

PH'O‘O credlls Let’s De-Solrhisticate . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . Joseph E. Curtis 280

Page 26], SlCVBHS pail“! Wiscomill. Recreation 09' The Game of Kwat P’ni . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Elliott Al. Cohen 28?.

partment; 262-3, New York City Deparlmcm 0‘ n -] ’E 0 - .

Parks; 269, Jacob Stelman, Philadelphia; 279, US, on nt \er . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 283

Air Fort-c; 288. Fabian Bachrach; 27]. (top) Chi-
eago Park District.

REG ULAR FEATURES

 

 

 
    
 

RECREATION is published momle except Jul, md Things \on Should know . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.34
August by the National Recreation Association. a service Letters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 258
organization supported by voluntary contributions. at 8 , .
gift-st EiglLtlb Sltrget._Nedeorlt (lit.ul;iew Xh'orlltz.  on A Reporter 3 hon-hook . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 274
einpuicirariesanurnex Inte can" . _
quatbsubsqipdom  'Rmr. Cémdim “:5! go“ llospttnl Capsnlcs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 292
C’an su scrr tron rate . . e-enter as secon ~cass ° o r- .0
mm“ Muir”. 1950. u the P0“ 05“ in N" York. Listening and \ towing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 293
New York under Act of March 3. {879. Accept!!!“ Market News . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 294
for mailing at special rate of pasta e previded for in _ ° ° ° ' ° °
Secrion1103.Actof0ctober3.t9 7.authorized May ClnsSIlietl Ads ................................... 295
1. I924. Microfilm: of current issues available Uni- I I f ‘ I . . ..
 Microfilm. 3!} N. Firs: Street. Ann Arbor. nt ex 0 z t \ertisers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29.)
1C '8'9- Rooks, Magazines, Pamphlets Recordings
Spam Rtpnumuirort Mark Minahan. 185 North Wa- o o I i "
baSh Avenue. Chicago t.  blagaznlc Articles ° ° ° ' ' ' ° ° ° ° ' ° ° ° ° 0 0 0 I I I I I I I I I o o o 
Copyright, t959, by the New Publications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 299
National Recreation Association. Incorporated
Printed in the U.S.A. 
1 i DUCATIONAL
-. 9. um...- “ E 5 5
S SOCIATION The articles heroin printed or. the unru-
° Trade marl: registered in U. 5. Patent 015cc. 0F tier: of the writer: and not 0 statement 0!
AM E“ I CA policy at the Notional Recreation Association.

SEPTEMBER 1959 255

Grant D. Brandon

      

PON ENTERING the field of recreation as a profession
U you should be prepared for many rich experiences in

human relations as well as countless heartaches.
Young people choose this profession because they have an
urge to serve humanity and .express their lives according
to their highest idcals.

This desire to serve, while undoubtedly sincere, may
lead them to overlook the more important fact, that “do-
ing” is a part “being,” that exanlplc is stronger than pre-
cept. A rcally successful life must first be lived. The spirit
that moves the individual to be of service to others must
come clean and true from the highest ideals the individual
is capable of cxperiencing. While skills are essential in
recreation, the inspiration the leader naturally arouses in
young people goes deeper and inlposcs further responsi-
bilities. The rccreation director comes in contact with thou-
sands of boys and girls at a period in their lives when per-
manent character traits are being developed.

Thc director must have a big hcart. It must be big enough
to includc all kinds of humanity—the good, the bad, the
lovable, the unlovable, thc crude, the cultured, the talented,
and the unskilled—and be able, at all times, to forgive, over-
look, and understand human frailties. The big heart must
also have the strength to make its dreams come true, to
struggle against great odds, to persist. . . .

He must also be cquippcd with knowledge of the past of
this great movement in which he is going to invest his life.
It is a startling experience for an older worker to talk with
a younger recreation worker and casually mention Joseph
Lee, Dr. John Findlcy, or Dr. Lawrence Pearsall Jacks, only

to receive a blank look indicating unexplored territory. No

Every individual has a place to fill

In the world a’ld ls Important really progressive profession would think of graduating a
In some respea: Whether he Chooses student who had not been thoroughly indoctrinated in the
to be $0 or not. — NATHANIEL HAWTHORNE. literature and history of its field.

When you think of your own life as influencing others,

 

MR. BRANDON was director of recreation in Lancaster, Penn-
sylvania, for over thirty years and has contributed to RECRE-

ATlON Magazine.

256 RECREATION

 

lifc takcs on more meaning. It is like living several lives
in one. Phillips Brooks used to say that no one would be
willing to live a half-life after he had gotten a glimpse of
the larger possible self. One of the most valuable ways in
whieh you, as a young leader, can enrich your life is by
delving deeply into some of the rich biographies of our
founders.

A director ll'lllSl be a natural leader possessed of initia-
tive. The leader must have that spark that inspires others
to do and dare. “Leadership,” as Dr. Ilughes Mearns states
in his book, The Creative Adult, “is an internal possession,
it cannot be assumed, the eyes and thc voicc tones instantly
expose the iinposter. Children are keen in sensing weak-
ness disguised as strength.” The leader who darcs to in-
vade the sacred prceinct of the growing life of childhood
with an air of carelessness and insincerity had better be-
ware. He is committing an unpardonable crime against our
future. Only a child, did you say? The child is very close
to the heart and plan of creation. All the elements of our
future success or failure are wrapped up in that child. In a
world where there are many negative influences, it is impera-
tive that the good life be dramatized by way of example
with all the skill and sincerity possible.

The real leader must be imbued with a strong sense of
dedication. His personal life must be worthy of emulation.
It is startling to recognize that you, as an individual, have
no counterpart. Your difference from every other person
in the world gives you a very definite responsibility to ful-
fill your individual destiny. It is quite possible that your
failure to fulfill your potential may mean some plan for
human bettcrment will never be completed.

A DIRECTOR on LEADER must be prepared to go it alone

at times. To be misunderstood is common and hard
to take, but to have your intentions twisted into selfish
motives and to come up smiling is‘ a real test of character
and fortitude. The recreation director should not only be
a creator of opportunities for many, but should have a per-
sonal, working philosophy. What we do depends upon what
we are. What we are is a result of what we habitually think.

We touch life around us very casually, little realizing
that in every eontact we make, we not only give but acquire.
We don’t have to take everything every contact exposes us

Look to this day!

For it is life, the very life of life——

In its brief course lie all the varieties and
realities of your existence:

The bliss of growrh;

The glory of anion;

The splendor of beauty;

SEPTEMBER 1959

to. We can discriminate but, in the majority of cases, we
take, good or bad, from lives that inspire us or personalities
that stimulate us. This makes leadership a grave responsi-
bility indeed.

Everyone is pushed ahead or back by some unseen force.
We, in turn, push or retard someone else. This pushing may
be direct, or it may come through some detour or some in-
dividual. \Ve ourselves are not just an isolated unit. Life,
therefore, becomes a great quest for our proper place in the
sun.

Dr. Albert Schweitzer said, in a recipe for living, “We
must wrestle with men so that . . . by the external things
so prominent in our times, they may find the road to in-
wardness and remain on it. We must wrestle with ourselves
in order to remain loyal to the great human ideas of the
past.” A successful life is not an easy life. It is built upon
strong qualities, sacrifice, endeavor, loyalty, and integrity.
In leadership there eontinually appears the old question as
to whcther practice or precept is the more important. Un-
doubtedly, we nced nlodels more than preachers.

THE FINER QUALITIES of one’s mind and heart are con-
tagious. Some people live as if this influence simply
radiated, like light and heat, and disclaim any responsi-
bility for its cfl'ect on others. Not until we begin to give
ourselves do we realize how wonderful it is to have the
power of influence.

We must recognize that attainment is never complete; it
is a series of continually opening doors. Cains are made
by realizing dreams, but advancement of our civilization
comes when hearts are set upon the impossible. \Ve all de-
sire sonie degree of success; the only difference is the
strength of our desires. The failure of any one of us, in
whatever measure, is a world failure. The faith that is with-
in us is something that has developed by growth; it is not
a gift from the gods.

An old Chinese motto says: “If you have two pennies,
with one buy bread and, with the other, a flower. The
one will give you lifc, the other will give you a reason for

U U 
living. #-

For Yesterday is already a dream, and Tomorrow
is only a vision;

But Today, well lived, makes every Yesterday

A dream of happiness, and every Tomorrow a

vision of hope.
Look well, therefore, to this day!
Such is the salutation of the dawn!

—-FROM THE SANSKRIT

257

TENNIS COURT

 

U. S. RUBBER REBLAIMINE 80.. INC.

BUFFALO 5. N Y..

 

P.O.. BOX 365

the NEW low cost
RUBBERIZED

 

Cushioned for
Comfort and Safety

Now the famous Saf-Plo, used for
rubberizing playgrounds, has also been
successfully adapted for surfocing
tennis courts. Recreation Directors and
School Executives who know about the
sofety, convenience and weother resist-
ance of Saf-Pla will be interested in
knowing that the tennis courts have
all these advantages and more. The
life of the court will be increased be-
cause Sof-Pla can be opplied over any
existing hard surface . . . and in most

coses, even badly deteriorated ones..

Tennis players will appreciate the
surer footing of rubber on rubber, as
well as the attendant foot-ease
braught about by this resilient surface.
The uniform bounce plus the safety
foctor in the event of a fall are addi-
tional reasons why your tennis court
should be surfoced with Saf-Plo.

Sat-Flo photographs taken at Agassiz Circle,
Delaware Pork, Buffoto, N. Y.

Send for Illustrated Literature
N o. 16

“I 'L

_._. —._—.-.-....—-—--

ll. 0.
n . . o a a .
.......... '-

  

 

 Readers! You are invited to send letters [or this page
to Editor, RECREATION, 8 West Eighth Street, New
Y or]: 11—so that your ideas, opinions and attitudes
may be exchanged with others on the wide range of
subjects of concern to us all. Here is your chance to
agree or disagree with the authors of our articles.
Keep letters brief—not more than 250 words.

Little Things That Connt
Sirs:

Our department would like to have
at least twenty-five copies of your ar-
ticle, “A Portrait of Mr. Recreation,”
if and when reprints become available.
W e will distribute these to members of
city councils, as well as to people in
our community who should be more
informed regarding their recreation de-
partment and the job of its director.

There is little doubt in my mind but
what information such as that contained

' in the article can he a great aid to those

of us in the field, working toward better
public relations and education of the
public for recreation.

After reading that only 615 of our
1,400 rcercation executives completed
and returned your questionnaire, it be-
came more apparent to me that respon-
sible personnel in the field frequently
fail to avail themselves of opportunities
to be of service and, in turn, to he
served. Granted, our first obligation is
to those whom we serve, but we must
also help ourselves and our respective
departments so that we in turn can and
will be better prepared to serve our
communities.

I cannot help but feel that the less
than fifty percent return on your ques-
tionnaire represents a far from ideal
interest on the part of many executives.
If there is any truth in the old adage,
“It’s the little things which count,” then
I am afraid that the failure to eompletc
and return the questionnaire was one
of the little things quite a few exeeutives
missed out on. More of us should real-
ize that any information, no matter how
insignificant it may seem, which is re-
quested by others and which we ean
provide, should be given as promptly as
possible. Although it may not be im-
portant to everybody, it is needed by
some and will probably be appreciated

- land read by many. Completing ques-

- -___. -J__-._o_--...- __'I__-_

___ -__;2-_ 11......- -_-....-.

—The Editors.

tionnaires and supplying various forms
of information take time, of course, but
we should stop and consider more often
the end results of the surveys and studies
which may likely become valuable in-
formation and/or tools of the present
and future for those of us in the field.

I’m glad I can say that I was one of
the 615 who completed and returned
your questionnaire, which provided in-
formation regarding a typical Mr. Rec-
reation.

ROBERT C. DUKE, Director of Recre-

ation, Aiken, South Carolina.

0 A further readership survey may be
made in the near future among a care-
fully selected, representative list of
RECREATION readers, to keep up with
your current needs and interests. This
will be far your benefit, to make the
magazine more useful to you. We
hope, therefore, that you will feel as
Mr. Duke does and cooperate by re-
turning the survey questionnaire sheets
promptly.—Ed.

Recreation Terminology

Sirs:

Let me. please, impose my unsolicited
opinion as to your article in thc Febru-
ary issue. “Let’s Say What We Mean.”
The suggestions it makes are praetieal
and natural. They are comparable in
nature and form to those followed in
other fields. are eonvenient to use, add
dignity and definitiveness to this field
of professional endeavor (thus helping
avoid mueh of the present confusion).
This is a step we need to take and, if
understood and supported by recrea-
tors, will, undoubtedly, be accepted.

I have a strong feeling, however, at
variance to one aspect of that portion
enclosed in the box at the end of the
artiele. It is the item V Recreator-f n)
an agent or teacher of reereation. Does

( Continued on page 260)

D t‘nn t) a min M’

I GRADUATE ASSISTANCE AWARDS

The National Recreation Association
Consulting Service on Recreation, for
the III Handicapped recently
awarded its first grants for graduate
education in the field of recreation for
the ill and handicapped. The five grants
totaled ten thousand dollars. Four
grants, for graduate study in the field
of recreation for the ill and handi-
capped, on the master’s level, went to:

and

meneas M. O’NEAL

I I Mr. O’Neal, hail-

ing from Roanoke
Richmond Professional lnstitute, Col-

Rapids, North Car-
olina, received his
lege of William and Mary. He is twen-

bachelor’s degree
in recreation at

 

ty-livc: served two years in the army,
stationed part of the time in Japan; and
has been employed by the municipal
recreation department and the William
Byrd Community Center in Richmond,
Virginia. While in the army he had a
tour of duty in the Special Services Di-
vision Recreation Program. He will at-
tend the University of North Carolina.

Mr. Verzone re-
ceived his bache-
lor’s

I RICHARD H. Vsazoxa
Springfield Col-
lege, Springfield,

I
I'. Massachusetts. Al-

though only twcnty-one, he has had
considerable experience working with
handicapped children and was labora-
tory assistant to the well-known re-
search physiologist Dr. Peter Karpo-
vich; in addition he has conducted a
summer day camp for children. He will
attend graduate school at Springfield
College.

 

 

DONALD L. DOUGLAS

II.

Mr. Douglas re-
ceived his bache-
lor’s degree in rec-
reation at South-
ern University,
Baton Rouge, Lou-
1.i-«s-iana. He is twenty-seven; has been

|lalnploycd by the East Baton Rouge

 

fI-ZPTEHBER 1959

degree at,

Recreation and Park Commission and

the Baton Rouge YMCA. He will attend '

the University of Minnesota.

J AM as R. Pom:

Mr. Pope is em-
ployed by the State
of Indiana at the
Fort Wayne State
School as a recrea-
tion leader. llc is
twenty-eight and received his bache-
lor’s degree last year at North Carolina
State College, Raleigh. He matricu-
latcs this fall at the University 01 North
Carolina.

 

RICHARD LYON RAMSAY
" For the advanced
program, Mr. Ram-
say was awarded
$3,000. lie is thir-
ty-five, received
his bachelor’s de-
gree at George Williams College, Chi.
cago. He has worked for the YMCA in
Toronto and Fort Williams, Ontario,
and Edmonton, Alberta, leaving the
YMCA to become director of recrea-
tion therapy at E‘ssondal, a 4,000-lied
psychiatric hospital in British Colum-
bia. lle completed requirements for his

 

master’s degree in recreation for the ill
and handicapped at Teachers College,
Columbia University, where he will
work for an advanced degree of Special-
ist in Recreation in Rehabilitation.

For grants for the academic year
1960-61, write the Consulting Service
on Recreation for the lll and Handi-
capped, National Recreation Associa-
tion, 8 West Eighth Street, New York
11, N.Y. (Ask for an application for
graduate assistance.) Applications will
he accepted until March 15, 1960, for
the 1960-61 academic year. #

Make Yonr Congress

Reservations Now!

 

New, Improved Golden Age Club Pin.
New In real gold plate with tree In
green Iewelers' enamel. Safety catch.
50¢ each, Including tederol tent and

postage.

Mlnlmum erder 10 plus
Available only to authentlc clubs.
JAMES SPENCER 8- CO.

22 N. 6th Street 'I'tllodelp-hlo 6, Po.

 

EXACT SHE

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

100% ALUMINUM
TABLE TENNIS TABLES

E N T l R E L Y CONSTRUCTED OF
HEAVY- DUTY ALUMINUM, exclu-
sively designed for Intensive use In
all types of public recreation oreos
locoted indoors and outdoors.

0 OUTLASTS all other ping-pong
tobles in public areas.

FOLDING ond RIGID LEG
MODELS.

Standord size and boll-
bounce.

No mointenance or replace-
ment problems.

In 2 sections ~— 4' legs each
section. Easily separated into
2 tobles for mony other uses.

Attroctively finished in green
non-glare surface ond silver
lines.

NATIONALLYUSEDFORMANY
YEARS in Colleges, Schools,
Clubs, Playgrounds, Gymna-
siums, etc.

For Full Details. Write:

All Metal Tennis Table Co.
P.O. Box 142, Teoneck, N. J.

 

 

IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
PRICE -QUALITY

You get all three at Mitchell Steven.
Our RIG, NEW Craft Catalog is
packed with a wide variety of crafts
to fit every age group. Let our years
of eralt experienee help you in your
selection.

Write for FREE (AIALOG oi Craft Supplies.

MITCHELL STEVEN
H

OBBYCRAFT CO.

III Hrln Sheri—Deal. It't
Frmtngdalr, L I.. It" Tort

 

259

G o L D M E D A L t th(COm::m€d from page 258)
R E F R E S H M E N T E Q U I p M E N T iliieade befacloirridael eleliifonlshzilpsthsihfigl?

typify the rest of the article? Is a
wm Be on Display Ah teacher of history, necessarily, a his-

torian? If a young lady becomes an in-

   SEPT 28-Oct 2 structor of junior-high general science,
NATIONAL RECREATION CONGRESS ‘5 Shea therefore, a Scientist?

How about this, “V Recreator-l n) an

     agent whose professional endeavors
  are in the field of recreation services?”

Why single out teacher to add to
agent? If we say “an agent engaged in

5th y mm nan mama NEEDS next: 3:: 353;; easiest21:33:33:

W _ should also include administrator, ac-
 tivrty director, crafts instructor, recrea-

tion maintenance, personnel, and so on.

   

Thinking from the same personalized
kind of premise as did the teacher-au-
thor, I should, then, suggest that we in-
clude director of a state recreation serv-
ice. The teacher who developed or
reproduced the “agent or teacher” con-
cept is momentarily, I feel sure, back in
the mind and body era. . . .

RALPH J. ANDREWS, Director, North

Carolina Recreation Commission, Ra-

leigk.

 
 

Whirlwind
Cotton Candy

Machine
$275.00

 
   
   
  

Ir *- * Ir

' Sirs:
Charles K. Brightbill’s article “Let’s
' Say What We Mean” is impressive.
However, I disagree with his definition
- that recreation is activity which has a
| beneficial effect physically,mentally and
I emotionally . . . recreation use of leisure
1| can be undesirable as wcll as desirable

I

Pop A lot ’ .eOSi’X/‘J
 ' ADD ‘ sates?
' $5,000 ANNUAL PROFIT! "m

Hundreds of Recreation Departments own one or more of

            
      

these profit-making machines. Refreshments belong in oil

 
 

 

Recreation Facilities. Accommodate the Public's desires and

    
 

to the individual and society. Undesir-

ablc leisure-time pursuits can he seen

in juvenile delinquency, vice, alcohol-

ism, drug addiction, hoboism, sexual
I deviation, gangs.

moke huge profits in the process. Write for complete catalog
and detailed brochures on how YOUR Department can easily
get Thousands of dollars every year.

© -
 @ In another article, Warren Ker-

@   m a. ' show’s impressive “Why Recreation?”
30; 5_ mm sum (mug 2, or. Kersllow states: “The weakest link in

I the recreation profession today is the

Ge} fhe Fads! . inability of its professional workers to

answer clearly the blunt hut natural

questions, “Why have recreation any-
way? What real purpose does it serve?”

— " ' Do we really know that this is the
weakest link in the recreation profes-
sion? I would like to know of a tech-
nique suitable for a nationwide survey
to support this contention! It is my
guess that there are many professional
workers capable of adequately answer-
ing this question. There may not he
consistent answers among the pros. Is
this surprising? Recreation is such a
broad subject, with so many ramifica-
tions, meaning different things to dif-
ferent people. I do not think there is
always a simple meaningful answer to
questions of “Why Recreation?”
THOMAS BELTON, Superintendent of
Recreation, Drayton Plains, Michi-
gan.

    
 
 

Gold Medal can help you to greater success, too.
Visit aur displays at regional and national conferences,
or write directly today.

   

  

FENCING!

the PLUS VALUE sport for your
physical education program.

New catalog includes valuable training aids and equipment
tar club, classroom instruction, and varsity competition.

r7:
 rename EQUIPMENT 00.. INC.

30 East 10th Street, New York 3, N. Y.
America’s oldest and largest importer and manufacturer of Fencing Equipment Write Dept. 00

   

260 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. RECREATION

'SPORTS YIELD YOUTH FITNESS

us PROGRAM of the President’s
T Council on Youth Fitness is con-

cerned with all American youth.
Youth is basically action-oriented.
Thus, physical activity iS basic in hu-
man growth and the maintenance of
well-being, since youth is the period
of growth and physical development.
Though the council useS the physical
as thc springhoard to its programing,
it rccognizcs the impossibility of un-
raveling the strands of mental, spirit-
ual, emotional, and physical compo-
nents that make up the individual. All
persons, handicaps and age brackets
notwithstanding, can and should be-
come part of the youth fitness mission.

Just aS the council is concerncd with
every youth—boy and girl—so does it
include in the top priority hrackct, among the available
tools in its Jitness concept, every wholcsome sport. The
council recognich no major favorites; nor is it cognizant
of any minor sports. lt hails sports as the core of the phys-
ical education program in what may be called the American
system. It salutes sports as the most inclusive and far-reach-
ing area of recreation activities.

The council’s lively interest in furthering sports partici-
pation runS the entire alphabet from angling to yachting.
It includes evcrything from bowling and basketball to rope
skipping and rowing; from calisthenics and canoeing to
track and touch football and tobogganniug: from gymnas-
tics and jujitsu to laerosse and wcightlifting. The list en-
compasses cycling, swimming, skiing—on the snow and on
the water—and scaling mountains; hiking, hunting, hockey,
and handball; fishing and fencing; roller skating and
wrestling; and on and on through an almost endless list
of hodybuilding, health-safeguarding, and spirit-nourish-
ing physical activities.

The council sees competition as an inevitable and gen-
erally desirable concomitant of most sports. This reflects

 

the highly competitive society in which
we live, and grows out of the wholesome
urge. of individuals, who begin to ae-
quire individual skills or become part
of coordinated teams. It measures abil-
ity and quality against what others can
do or against par or what they did
yesterday or even against natural ob-
stacles and adversaries. The council
finds merit in happily conceived and
properly conducted body-contact Sports,
suited to the physiological and sociolog-
ical ages of the participants. The coun-
cil particularly stresses Sports with car-
ry-over value and that can become a
rich part of the recreation and fitness
program of an individual throughout
his life.

It is realized that professional ath-
leticS, conducted on a high plane, has a legitimate place in
the American sports scene and can 'make a great contribu-
tion to youth fitness when the performers exemplify the
best in execution of skills (individual and team), observ-
ancc of rules, and fine Sportsmanship in the strcss of hungry
competition. The number of spectators throughout the na-
tion, young and old, will eontinue to increase, as more and
more youths participate in activities and carry their funda-
mental skills and interests into adulthood. They thus be-
come appreciators and sports lovers who find clinical values
as well as sheer entertainment and excitement in the pro-
fessional sports lahoratories. But unless American youth,
in general, is participating in sports, the professional ath-
letcs are hut paid performers, workers at a game. In an
even more realistic sense, intercollegiate and interscholastie
sports teamS should be honest outgrowths of alloinclusive
intramural programs, which are part of an enlightened
program beginning in the clelnentary grades. #

 

 

The above is text of pamphlet, PCFY 5, published by the
President's Council on Youth Fitness, 441 G Street, N.W.,
Washington, D. C. Free.

 

National policies trill be no more than words if our people are not healthy of bod y as well as mind, put-
ting dynamism and leadership into the carrying out of major decisions. -- Dwight D. Eisenhower

 

SEPTEMBER 1959

261

NEW YORK’S
BILLION—
DOLLAR
BACKYARD

Central Park’s model-boat basin, gathering
place of old and young, is also

a mecca [or the amateur and professional
photographer. Here, start of a sailing regatta.

 
 

 
 
 
 
  
  
  

 
 

Never mind the toeather——parh’s chess and
checker area is in use whether the
temperature calls for overcoat or shirt
sleeves, attracts usual quota of hibitzers.

Generations of New Yorkers have flocked
tree-lined mall {or band concerts, a]

shows, barbershop quartet contests, and d
events jammerl into busy summer sche;

 

 

Elizabeth Fagg Olds

meadows, and leafy forests. Four lakes—one a mile
long a boulder-strewn stream and waterfall. Twenty-

l IIGIIT-IIl'NDRED-FORTY scans of rolling hills. spreading

five miles of footpaths; six miles of scenic bridle trails.
Boating, fishing, tennis in summer; sledding. skiing, ice
skating in winter. If you read this tempting description in
a travel folder, where would you imagine the paradise to
he?

lmplausihly enough, this pastoral tract lies in the very
heart of New York City, rimmed by soaring skyscrapers
and within sight at night of the flashing neons of Broadway.
l t is Central Park. Nowhere will you find a more dramatic
escape from an overabundance of civilization than in the
few steps leading you from bustling Fifth Avenue into this
haven of sylvan peace.

It is a miracle that it has survived intact for the hundred
years since it was opened, for certainly no park on earth
usurps real estate of such value. A txsto-antl-a-half-mile-
long, half-a-mile-wide parallelogram, stretching fifty-one
blocks north and south, it occupies roughly one-twelfth of

—-r—-——

MRS. OLDS is editor, writer, and account executive for the pub-
lic relations hrm of Dudley & Yutzy, New York C ity. She was
a former bureau chief for Time Magazine and has contrib-
uted to many national magazines.

1-1—1...—

 

 

 

262

Manhattan Island. On the city’s tax books the park is as-
sessed at more than a half billion dollars, probahly only half
its actual sale value. But there is small chance that New
Yorkers will relinquish so much as one inch of their billion-
dollar backyard. The annals of park history bristle with
controversies over using it for something else. Here are a
few of the multitude of proposals that would have nibbled
away or deliled the land. The park just missed becoming
the site for: the \Vorld’s Fair of 1893 and various exposi-
tion buildings, a stadium, a cemetery for famous dead, a
military parade ground, a landing field for airplanes and
numerous other schemes.

Although a mere drop in the bucket of Greater New
York’s vast tllirty-two-thousand-acre park system. Central
Park is the only one of any size on Manhattan Island. It is
thus the playground for a population of nearly two million.
Generations of youngsters have known no other; rich and
poor alike play together in this public hackyard. Rockefel-
lers, Roosevelts, llarrimans, and Vanderbilts have all been
wheeled in Central Park’s fresh air, and an estimated mil-
lion youngsters each year romp in its twenty-nine elabo-
rately equipped play areas. Seventy-live schools in the en-
virons use its hockey fields, ball courts, drill grounds, and
thirty tennis courts. Boy Scouts use the model-boat basin
as a rescue laboratory during lifesaving tests. 011 a galaxy
of twenty-five ball diamonds, Little League batters strive

RECREATION

for home runs. Their fathers play on these sandlots, too,
as members of the gigantic “twilight league” of Manhattan
office workers who compete in softball after fiver-nearly
one thousand strong on any week night.

In August, finals for a multitude of sports events among
New York's five boroughs are played off in Central Park.
When snow falls and temperatures drop, Central Park be-
comes a Currier and lves print. Hundreds of youngsters
skate on frozen lakes or sled down the white slope of Cedar
Hill. lee patrols make tests four times daily, and when the
ice is safe a wordless sign goes up at each park entrance—
a flag with a large red disc on a white ground. Since 1862
“The red ball is up!” has been the cry proclaiming the lakes
in Central Park open for skating. Today, however, skating
is no longer dependent on winter: the Wollman Memorial
Rink, built in 1953, guarantees skating from October until
late April.

You gravitate to Central Park not only for the big city’s

 

grand sweep of sky, grass, and trees but for some of its best
cultural offerings.

Summer evenings in the park are filled with music and
dance and entertainment. For only the cost of a subway
or bus ride, a boy can take his girl there every night for
a different program. Goldman Band concerts on the stately,
tree-lined Mall, beloved by generations of New Yorkers,
alternate with barber-shop quartets, magic shows, and
classical musicians. A Shakespeare theater performs out-
doors, against a backdrop of the castlelikc Belvedere Tower
high on a rocky knoll. There’s square dancing, with famous
callers, or social dancing with excellent bands, out under
the stars. It is nothing for one hundred thousand persons
to be present in the park at once, at different events, each
audience unaware of the presence of another, so ample and
well dispersed are the facilities. All this Arabian Nights
entertainment costs the city nothing—it is underwritten by
business, industry, or private endowment.

When Bernard M. Baruch, presidential advisor and fin-
ancier, was shown a site in 1951 where a chess-and-checkers
pavilion was needed, he quickly consented to finance the
building. “The park commissioner was surprised at how
quickly I decided,” Baruch wrote in his memoirs. “1 did
not tell him the site he had picked was where Annie and
I used to sit.” Barueh’s love affair with the park itself has
been so long, deep, and enduring that the city last fall con-

Steers.“ BER 1959

 

Central Park was the first area acquired by a muni-
cipality, specifically for public recreation use. Above, row
boating on the lake with Loeb Boathouse in background.

\

ceded him informal proprietorship to his favorite bench
by installing a plaque at its base: “Elder Statesman’s Bench
Reserved for Bernard M. Baruch.”

You are likely to meet anyone in Central Park. So many
famous people take daily constitutionals on the one-and-
one-quarter-mile cinder path around the reservoir that it is
nicknamed the “city’s reducing center.” In the park’s ex-
cellent menagerie, which draws three million visitors year-
ly, you can hear every language, see every costume—bon-
neted Amish from Pennsylvania, turbaned Sikhs from In-
dia, slit-skirted Chinese.

Mention Belvedere Tower among any group of clima-
tologists the world over and they’ll know you mean the
U.S. Meteorological Station in Central Park. Oldest con-
sistent records of New York weather come from Tower
Hill, beginning three years before the US. Weather Bu-
reau came into existence in 1871. Belvedere, not hemmed
in by buildings as are other Manhattan weather stations,
gets purc readings invaluable to many.

To many New Yorkers Central Park is above all a wild-
life prcscrve. A familiar figure is the “Squirrel Woman”
who hands out five hundred pounds of peanuts a year,
and there’s the “Duck Lady” who tips her doorman to feed
her charges when she’s away. Oddly enough as more and
more people use the park, so do more and more birds—-
the list of identified species has grown from 186 in 1923
to 240, including the northern phalarope. Bird-watchers
---easily recognizable by their binoculars and notebooks—
include—in addition to professional naturalists—lawyers,
doctors, a baker, a window dresser, a subway worker.

711]”: CRUSIIING pressure of twelve million users yearly
takes its toll. A three-shift crew works around the clock
—~twenty tons of,rubbish are carried off after a big Sun-
day. Battered grcenswards, cut off from public use only
when being resodded, consume five thousand pounds of
grass seed yearly, fifty thousand pounds of sod, fifty tons
of fertilizer. A constant menace, peculiar to New York,
is the. apartment gardener furtively filling a flower pot with

263

soil. Since millions of purloined pots of earth could quickly
denude the park, keepers make the sheepish culprits dump
their harvest back.

More serious crimes have, in recent years, become a
threat, and the park now constitutes the entire Twenty-Sec-
ond Precinct of the city police department, on twenty-four-
hour alert, to prevent the bosky dells from becoming a hap-
py hunting ground for footpads, muggers, and derelicts.
Jeep patrols climb rocky prccipices. Mounted sergeants
patrol bridle paths and heavily wooded areas. Motorboat
patrol, with lifesaving equipment, stands ready on Rowboat
Lake.

At the stroke of midnight, a police officer politely invites
you out; the park is closed until a half hour before sun-
rise. Actually, the park’s felony rate has kept pace with
the city’s rise in crime. “Crime in Central Park is usually
exaggerated,” says Captain Hughes of the Twenty-Second.
“It shocks people, like crime in heaven.”

New Yorkers can thank William Cullen Bryant, the poet,
for this bit of heaven. By the middle of the last century,
New York’s half million inhabitants, concentrated at the
lower end of Manhattan in endless blocks of closely packed
houses, had begun to long for a breath of fresh air—a fact
Bryant, as editor-in-chief of the New York Post was first
to point out. In strong editorials he urged the city to set
land aside immediately for a great public park.

This was an unprecedented idea in a day when growing
recreational needs were met in many cities by large, well-
kept cemeteries such as Mount Auburn near Boston, Laurel
Hill in Philadelphia, and New York’s Greenwood. To Bry-
ant’s voice was added that of Andrew J. Downing, promin-
ent horticulturist of the period, who demurred at the in-
congruity of graveyards as places of recreation and urged
New York to design a splendid municipal plcasure ground
which would establish a model for other cities.

“A park for New York” thus crystallized into a popular
issue and in 1851 the mayor recommended that land he
found. The city selected the present site, which it called
“The Central Park”—-—a forlorn wilderness of crags, swamps,
and sparse trees well outside the city proper. lts acquisi-
tion from legal owners of over scvcnty-fivc hundred plots
took three years and around seven million dollars, but less
than three decades later this sum had not only been rc-
turned through tax increases on adjacent land, but an ad-
ditional seventeen million. By 1857 a two-thousand-dollar-
award contest was announced for park designs. The plan
selected was the work of two young landscape architects,

Frederick Law Olmsted and Calvery Vaux.

Olmsted, who later sparked the policy of public owner-
ship of such natural beauties as Niagara Falls, was an un-

known at this time. So imbued was he with the significance
of creating America’s first great park that he applied for
and was given the job of park superintendent. Busy dur-
ing the day organizing the new office, he and Vaux met by
moonlight to study the land’s contours and to dream of its
future.

Today their foresight seems almost preternatural. At a
time when a man could stand on Tower Hill and gaze un-
interruptedly almost to the Battery several miles down the
island, they talked of a day when “the whole island . . .
would, but for such a reservation . . . be occupied by build-
ings and paved streets.”

The new superintendent soon had three thousand men
and four hundred horses busily grading, landscaping, and
shaping the grounds. More than half a million trees, shrubs,
and vines were planted; the lakes and a pond created; and,
in 1859, the public was invited to come enjoy a walk in
the first finished portion——-seven miles of mazelike paths
through an eighty-five-acre glade called “The Ramble.”
(This section is still so intricate rookic cops sometimes get
lost here and have to telephone for help to get out.) A
decade after its opening, an illustrated guidebook pictured
a handsomely devcloped Central Park, much as it appears
today, and already an institution in the city’s life.

P ARK ADMINISTRATION, however, gradually became a po-
litical football, and for a time Central Park fell into neg-
lect. Favored people got commercial concessions, the
most famous being the Old Casino—swank mecea for cafe
society during the Roaring Twenties. Fiorello LaGuardia
madc demolition of this night club an issue in his 1933
mayoralty campaign; upon election he immediately re-
placed the Casino with a playground for youngsters. An
immense statue of Mother Goose now stands where some
of the most strident azz once um-pahed through the night.
For the last two-and-a-half decades Central Park has
been in the charge of one of the world’s best park-keepers,
Robert Moses. Appointed commissioner of New York City's
Bark Department by LaGuardia in 1934, Moses has revital-
ized the department, rehabilitated aging buildings and
lawns, and instigated addition of many new playgrounds
and facilities.

For all who pass—rich or poor, native or foreign born——
Central Park’s hroad, calm expanses speak reassurance: a
fabulous brooch of emerald and azurite set in the middle
of a “concrete icecap.”

“When one is inclined to desPair,” an editorialist once
wrote, “let him spend a few hours in Central Park looking
at the people. When the sun begins to sink, he will arise
and go homcward with a happy swelling heart.” The same
can be said today. #

 

 

Time is running out and the focus of the immediate future has to be not
on where open space should be but on what legal and financial frame-
work will help us get it in a hurry. — STANLEY B. TANKEL.

‘

 

264

RECREATION

“It has a powerful role to play in the promotion of health.”

RECREATION . . .

A
POSITIVE
FORCE
IN

PREVENTIVE

MEDICINE

I EISURE Tim: is available to mil-

lions of our people who regret-
tably do not know what to do
with it. In other words, more leisure
time has not brought more leisure; in-
stead,the tempo of all life has increased.
Medicine now places more and more
emphasis upon a psychosomatic basis
for illness and includes stress, strain,
and pressures as causative factors. On
the purely psychological side, widc-
spread compulsive living (particularly
compulsive conformity and compulsive
nonconformity), compulsive eating,
drinking, and smoking have displaced
lcisurely living and the true enjoyment
of the “pipe and the bowl and the fid-
dlers three.” Man’s innate capacity for
recreation, his innate capacity to make
creative use of leisure as part of his
biological endowment, and accessory
as a phase of growth, has been inter-
fered with, obstructed, and perverted
by psychological, sociological, and the-
ological misconceptions, pressures, and
demands.
Work and play are complementary

DR. MARTIN is chairman, Committee on
Cooperation with Leisure-Time Agen-
cies, American Psychiatric Association,
New York. Above talk was given at
National Recreation Congress, 1958.

SEPTEMBER 1959

Alexander Reid Martin, NJ).

phases of the growth cycle. Our cul-
ture has glorified work and discrcdited
the recreative phase as idleness, lazi-
ness, and sloth. Therefore, it is to the
leisure and recreativc phase of the
growth cycle that we must turn our
attcntion in order to re-establish the
natural biological rhythm if we are to
exert a positive force in the promotion
of health. We are concerned with what
will make our growing years riper,
more productive, and more creative.
The word riper reminds us of five great
disciplines. essential in preparing us
for the forthcoming “great adventure
in free time.”
li—Refigion: The “gospel of work,”
which accepts leisure only as a reward,
must be denounced by our theologians.
l—lndnstry: Capital and organized
labor and life-insurance leaders have
great responsibility in preparing and
educating personnel for life.
P—Psychhrtry: Has gained special
insights into the psychological and cul-
tural factors that influence man’s innate
ability to use leisure creatively.
E—Edncation: Must be more and
more for life ofI the job, recognizing
that while we may cnjoy work and play,
they can never overlap. Labor and
leisure biologically complement each

other in a” of man’s crcative processes.
li—h’ecreation: Has a powerful in-
tegrating, coordinating, and catalytic
role to play; but, first of all, we must
have a clear definition of its scope and
function in order fully to realize its
effectiveness.
. Recreation is the only discipline to-
day concentrating its entire erort upon
how, when, where, and with whom man
occupies his leisure time. Recreation
is alone in having as its field of study
the whole man, and the whole of man
in relation to one area of his environ-
ment, i.e., his lcisure time. 0f the five
disciplines incntioned, recreation has
clearly defined and confined its field of
study and function to man’s leisure and
leisure time. It is best equipped to co-
ordinate all those other disciplines,
which have only a partial function in
relation to man's leisure. Recreation
is a fitting partner of ecologic medi-
cine. Only by basic and thorough train-
ing in fundamcntals can recreation
hope to take its place with the othcr
disciplines and serve its indispcnsablc
role as intcgrator and coordinator and
fulfill its function as “specializing in
leisurc.” A traincd recreator conceives
the following as his primary function:

0 To promote the positive and whole-
some concept of leisure as the biological
complement of work and essential to
all growth and creativity.

0 To promote facilitics, opportuni-
ties and conducive climate, to facilitate
the free expression of man’s natural
creative tendencies.

0 To learn to dierrentiatc between
the wise and unwise use of leisure-time
pr0grams and recreation opportunities.

Unless recreators have a positive
health promotion conception of leisure
and recreation they will Operate solely
as a kind of Ll’A—Leisure Projects
Administration—and will merely pro-
vide diverting occupations for what
Professor Arthur Schlesinger of Har-
vard calls the “Spiritually uncmployed.”

Are you training your studcnts pri-
marily to be functionaries in LPA proj-
ects, or is their primary orientation and
goal the promotion of health. the wise
use of leisure and spiritual employment
and, thus, the elimination of the Ll’A?
Your answer will decide whether the
disciplinc of recreation truly and fully
exercises a positive force on health. #-

265

The Army Special Services Crafts Program
in Europe has designed compact, portable crafts
furniture and installed it in some three hundred

. sh0ps. Here are many suggestions applicable
to the average art room.

I-

 

A movable crafts bar, designed [or limited

quarters, ltas storage space for
supplies and hand tools and a small work area.

Right, the self-contained crafts bar, closed up.
Mounted on rollers, this can
become the center 0/ room’s activity.

Below, front time 0/ a combination base and
display unit, Open. Top sections
are used for books, display, or small items.

 

Back view a] base and display unit combination, closed.
\‘ote drau'ers in lower right section. in these,
all materials can be tucked away neatly in small space.

 

266 RECREATION

 

lLANNING

l

John R. Mitltlents

ANY OF THE self-assured senior-high-school boys of
M last year’s art classes are now standing at sentry
posts all over the world. These young men and their
predecessors have been encouraged in continuing their art
interest by the Army’s Special Services Crafts Program.
Civilian professional art educators direct this activity. In
Europe they use workshop techniques to increase the teach-
ing and technical abilities of the native instructors, who
in turn teach the soldiers. Some of the building problems
facing the rapid expansion of such an extensive program
are peculiar to the armed services. However, many chal-
lenges closely parallel those that must be met by the in-
dividual art teaeher, supervisor, or leader. In Europe the
crafts section has designed equipment that has enabled it
to Open over three hundred shops in those areas where there
was an immediate need or where the hard-pressed construc-
tion program could not build shop furniture at the site.
The versatile art-room furniture was designed to offer
facilities for six basic crafts: leather, metal, wood, ceramies,
models, and graphic arts. The equipment was so eonstrue-
tcd that it could be utilized in rooms never intended for
such activities. When a more permanent type of facility be-
eame available, the equipment eould bc disassembled and
reassembled in new combinations as the basic furniture in
the new b‘llOpS. Many systems or recreation departments
might also be planning for immediate temporary use as well
as a permanent art room in some other building at a later
date. The erafts section in Europe found a basie 30”- by-
30” modular unit an easily transported sizc.

 

MR. MIDDENTS is crafts director in the Army's Special Serv-
ices Program in Europe. His mail address is Special Activities
Div.. Hq. USAREUR, APO 245, P.M. New York. Reprinted

courtesy Sehool Arts Magazine.

End view, showing the vertical
rack for storing leather. Section left shows
cork cover for pin-up displays.

The height of these base units allows them to double,
when necessary, as work tables. Placed one on top of an-
other, they separate different activity groups. If the art
room must be used for other activities, these locked storage
units permit multiuse of the room spaee.

In some localities, family groups utilize crafts sheps and
photo labs as centers for many other projects. In photo
lab darkrooms, full-time instructors explain techniques of
exposure, developing, and enlarging, and assist both ama-
teur and professional. To establish photo labs quickly in a
variety of buildings, a type of modular furniture similar
to that equipping erafts shops has been construeted. This
features a plastic sink with storage space underneath for
large devel0ping trays. Photo lahs utilizing this sink unit
usually plan for an installation, combining these sinks, so
that both long sides ean be used. Such a plan is useful as
it allows a large number of participants to ‘use deveIOping
trays at one time. lt also has proved very practical in teach-
ing demonstrations, since it allows the instructor to stand
in front of his students.

Crafts Bar (see photos left). In those areas where avail-
able space is extremely limited or where an isolated duty
post is manned by only a small number of soldiers, a mov-
able erafts bar is furnished. This self-contained unit has
storage space for supplies and small hand tools, also pro-
vides a small work area. Mounted on rollers, it can become
the center of a room’s activity, while at other times it can
be stored in an unobtrusive Spot. Such a unit frequently
stimulates a demand for a larger crafts faeility.

Combination Base and Display Units (see top left, the back
view). One side of the top unit, lower left, can be used
as storage space for books. When firmly attached to a
base unit the piano-hinged door and interior of the top unit
on the right offer a space for silhouette tool storage. The
base units store a variety of small tools and supplies .The
larger shelf areas are frequently used for keeping the bigger,
half-eompleted projects within the shop. These units were
made with doors on both sides, or one side only, to permit
either island-type planning or utilization of wall space.
Some t0p units as in lower right photOgrapb, are cork-
eovered for pin-up information and displays. Shelved in-
teriors store small, frequently used items. The top, right
unit affords a shallow glass display case. Leather is kept
in the large vertical unit. It allows air circulation around
the hides and, when the rack is pulled out, the different
leathers can be easily seen and removed. The lower area
furnishes a place for odd-sized drawing hoards and paper.

Good recreation barred, what doth ensue but moody and dull melancholy?

— lf’illiam Shakespeare.

 

SEPTEMBER I959

267

STATE

AND

LOCAL
DEVELOPMENTS

Elvira Delany

 

LABAMA. Establishment of Horseshoe Bend National
Military Park, dedicated in April, was made possi-
ble by the transfer of 2,040 acres to the federal

government. The state, Tallapoosa County, and patriotic
private citizens, acting through the Alabama Historical So-
ciety and the Horseshoe Bend Battle Park Association,
worked ointly to acquire the land for the park. Horseshoe
Bend, on the Tallapoosa River near Dadeville, was the scene,
on March 27, 1814, of a bitterly fought battle in which Gen-
eral Andrew J ackson’s forces decisively defeated a strong
body of Creek Indians and opened the old Southwest to
white scttlement.

ARIZONA. The state established three new state parks when
it took title to historic sites in Tubae, Yuma, and Tuc-
son. The Tubac site includes the presidio which was the
first European settlement in Arizona. In Phoenix, a new
ten-acre park has been named after J amcs T. O’Neil, chair-
man of the Maricopa Board of Supervisors at the time of
his death last May. The county will spend $42,000 on de-
velopment of the park in the next three years. Mesa will
build two new swimming pools in cooperation with the
Mesa School District. The schools will operate the pools
during the school year and the city will operate them dur-
ing the summer.

In water-scarce Arizona, a lake of any size is of great
value for recreation. Cooperative efforts by the Arizona
Game and Fish Departmcnt, U.S. Forest Service, and local
Boy Scout units have resulted in a small fishing lake in
northern Arizona, called Fence Lake. Construction of an
earthen dam eleven feet high and nearly seven hundred
feet long cost the game and fish department approximately
$2,700. With an area of five-and-three-tenths surface acres,
this indicates a cost of less than $510 per acre. Maximum
depth is under fourteen feet. A fence enclosing thirty-two
acres has been built around the lake. A turnstile was in-
stalled to keep vehicles from the lakeshore picnic areas.
CALIFORNIA. The new $441,800 visitor center to be con-
structed at Death Valley National Monument is the joint
project of the federal and state governments and private
enterprise. California provided $350,000 for design and
construction of the center’s museum-auditorium building;
the Death Valley Hotel Company donated ninety acres of
land; and the federal government provides the administra-
tion building, parking areas, roads and walks, landscaping,

268

and utilities. The state contribution was made possible
through efforts initiated by the Death Valley ’49ers, a pri-
vate organization dedicated to honoring pioneer explorers
of the valley.

The Long Beach City Council has approved the general
development plan for Los Cerritos Park. Featured in the
development, are a small children’s play area, a large play
meadow, and a picnic area. The city’s new eighteen-hole
municipal golf course, adjacent to the municipal airport,
opened in the spring.

The California State Division of Beaches and Parks is
completing its acquisition of approximately twelve hundred
acres adjacent to Puddingstone Reservoir near San Dimes.
This will augment the existing 625 acres already owned by
the Los Angeles County Flood Control District. Upon
completion of the state’s purchase the Puddingstone Res-
ervoir Recreation Area should contain more than eighteen
hundred acres. Los Angeles County Opened its sixth pub-
lic golf course in July, the championship length, eighteen-
holc Whittier Narrows Golf Course in San Gabriel Valley.

Pomona has dedicated a new $152,000 community cen-
ter building at Palomares Park. In Santa Ana, the city and
the city schools have opened a new 75-by-100-foot swim-
ming pool located on the campus of Santa Ana College. The
city financed construction of the $105,000 pool, with the
schools providing the site and dressing rooms. The Cali-
fornia Wildlife Commission has allocated $24,700 to the
city of Stockton for construction of ramps, 3 parking area,
access roads, and a fishing pier for Louis Park. The Stock-
ton Elks Club made arrangements for the Southern Pacific
Railroad to donate a steam engine for Louis Park’s Pixie
Woods. University of California students are enjoying a
new recreation and social center in the Berkeley Straw-
bcrry Canyon Recreational Area. Included in the facilities
are a clubhouse and swimming pool.

Anaheim. is deveIOping a new eighteen-hole municipal
course located on city flood-control property. Ontario has
signed a twenty-fivc-ycar lease with Ontario Golf, Inc. to
build, maintain, and operate an eighteen-hole public golf
course, using affluent water from Ontario’s sewage disposal
plant. Oakland is constructing an eightccn-hole golf course
on fill prOperty near the Oakland International Airport.
Also scheduled is a new nine-hole par-three course at Lake

Cha bot.

CONNECTICUT. Bethel has received $50,000 from a retired
local resident to purchase and equip a thirty-eight-acre
tract for a public park. The town has agreed to pay for
operation and maintenance, and local service clubs are
raising funds for recreation facilities. Waterbury has con-
structed a second eighteen-hole course.

DELAWARE. The state took title to Lum’s Mill Pond, con-
sisting of 680 acres of land and impoundment at a cere-
Inony during the Governor’s Conference on Recreation last
Spring. The area had been used for mud disposal by the
US. Corps of Engineers, which leased it to the state in 1950
for use as a wildlife management and public hunting and
fishing area. However, without title to the land, the state
could not spend any money at all in capital improvements.

RECREATION

 

FLORIDA. Citizens of Jacksonville approved a $150,000 rec-
reation bond issue, which calls for three neighborhood com-
munity centers, a center to house the recreation department
offices and serve as a meeting place, and a sum to start the
construction of the city’s first public marina.

GEORGIA. Development of the new Cobb County Recreation
Area at Marietta will include an eighteen-hole regulation
golf course scheduled to open May, 1960. A survey of
county residents brought five thousand requests for a golf
facility as part of the plan.

INDIANA. South Bend has a new $320,000 artificial ice-
skating rink and a new senior citizens center in Howard
Park. Fort Wayne is developing a new eighteen-hole, 2,880-
yard, par-3 golf course in Shoaff Park to meet the increas-
ing demands of municipal golfers. In Michigan City the
very high ratio of out-of-town visitors to the city’s lake-

New Sidney Hillman Recreation Center in
Philadelphia will be exclusively

for use of retired members of the Amal-
gamated Clothing Workers of America.

A hothouse for cultivating flowers is

one of the noteworthy features of the
$200,000 building. Architect's drawing
shows the garden view of

the one-story air-conditioned building.

1 .

front park led to the development of a new six-acre section
of the park for county residents only. The city found it
had as many as ten thousand out-of-town visitors in this
one park on a Sunday.

MASSACHUSETTS. Construction of a metropolitan arts center
in Boston is being financed from a $5,000,000 recreation
facility bond issue of the Metropolitan District Commission,
a state park agency. The commission has constructed a the-
a-ter, has plans for an opera house and art gallery.
MICHIGAN. Highland Park has passed a referendum to in-
crease its recreation tax from .025 to .050 mills. In Saginaw,
the Jaycees raised $15,000 to purchase an eighty-five-acre
park site and persuaded the county board of supervisors to
to hire a landscape architect to plan the park. The Jaycees
also took active part in clearing underbrush and doing other
work on the site. The new multimillion-dollar civic center
in Dearborn will cover fifty acres and have a $1,500,000
youth center, as well as an auditorium and sports stadium.
N EW HAMPSHIRE. Newest development in the state park sys-
tem is Ellacoya State Beach in Gil/0rd. The twelve-acre
project on Lake Winnipesaukee was developed under a
$100,000 capital appropriation authorized by the last legis-
Lnture.

Noam CAROLINA. Shelby has approved a $150,000 bond
issue to improve local recreation areas, which include a
new community center for Holly Oak Park and improve-
ment projects for City Park, including enlarging its pool.
TEXAS. King Ranch has donated four hundred acres to the
city of Kingsville to be developed into a park. I’lans include
a swimming pool of Olympic size and a community center.

SEPTEMBER 1959

I- i - s
, J.
,JL“
.— - huh...- _.

The sprawling park system in Dallas has grown rapidly
in the past six years. Since 1953, the city has added thirty-
one new parks with 2,244 acres and now has 115 parks with
7,908 acres. Since May 1, 1953, $3,725,899 has been spent
from bond funds for park purposes plus another $300,000
from an endowment fund. The number of major neighbor-
hood swimming pools has doubled, seven of the thirteen
pools having been built since 1953. The Dallas zoo has
grown out of the menagerie class into an outdoor museum
and the zoo's primates are to have new quarters. The num-
ber of lighted softball diamonds exactly doubled—from
twenty-three to forty-six. At Fair Park, the city built a
garden center and a twelve-acre parking lot. Park attend-
ance soared 17,351,000 to 26,363,000 in 1958. The park de-
partment recently drafted a new long-range program of park
develOpment. lts first master plan dated back to 1910.

  

If

   

In.“ -—..*-

m

UTAII. The State Park and Recreation Commission recently
accepted a deed from Dixie College for 295 acres in Snow
Canyon, Washington County, which will become Dixie State
Park, the first park to be acquired by the commission.
WISCONSIN. Superior is developing a small-craft harbor for
launching and mooring of boats. A small island has been
connected to the shore by a roadway. The island project
will also include a bathing beach. Kenosha has voted a bond
issue for the city’s first outdoor swimming pool. The T-
shaped pool will be located in Washington Park and will be
constructed of aluminum. lt will be 165 by 47% feet, with
a diving area 43 by 35 feet. The pool is result of two years’
work on the part of the Kenosha Swimming Pools Associa-
tion, a nonprofit, civic improvement association, which in-
cluded representatives from the various service clubs, the
mayor, and the director of public recreation.

WEST VIRGINIA. Wheeling has just completed one ten-year
master plan for developing Oglebay and Wheeling Parks
and is now hard at work on another. Wheeling's new ten-
yezir plan provides for such facilities as an artificial ice skat-
ing rink, tennis clubhouse, new tennis courts, miniature
golf putting course, a golf driving range shelter and re-
freshment stand, addition to the golf clubhouse, an audi-
torium at Wilson Lodge, new sunbathing areas for swim-
mers, a recreation building at one of Oglebay’s larger
camps, two new lakes, new bridle trails, additional parking
for the million annual visitors, a golf-course watering sys-
tem, archery range, a nature eentcr, outdoor theater, new
cabins, a pony ring, overlooks and bridges along nature
trails, and new picnic sites. #

269

September 28 to October 2, 1959.

WE'RE HEADED
FOR THE CONGRESS

Pack your bags and put on your hat—we’re on our way.

Set Your Sights

EW DIRECTIONS for recreation—and new horizons—
N are needed today and, in large part, must come from
this meeting of the 41st National Recreation Con-
.gress. This will not be “just another Congress,” for we now
stand on the threshold of a new era—the era of greater
leisure, urban sprawl and diminishing land areas, of the
atom and the space ship, and a possible community on the
moon by 1970. There is much to be decided. Consideration
must be given the role of recreation in relation to these
things, and there may be a need for drastic changes in our
thinking. The question is not only what shall be done, but
how aha” we do it?

Will you be there? Will you, your department, your town
play a part in determining the shape of things to come in
the recreation field, today and tomorrow? Consider care-
fully. It will be better to attend the Congress than to stay
at home and be sorry.

Prepare in Advance

If you wish to get full benefit of Congress meetings, it
will pay to plan in advance. Congress sessions will be keyed
to its theme “Recreation in an Expanding Leisure” and to
the above facts. Anyone expecting to attend should he think-
ing in these terms. Read the rest of this article, then care-
fully check the Congress Program Digest on page 291. Be
sure to mark all general sessions first, for these are always
important to all delegates. Also of concern to everyone will
be topics discussed in the master sessions mentioned below.

Congress \Vho’s Who

ARTHUR SHERWOOD FLEMMING, U. S. Secretary of Health,
Education, and W'elfare, will deliver the keynote address at
the opening session Monday morning.

HOMER WADSWORTH,’ chairman of the President’s Citizens
Advisory Committee on the Fitness of American Youth, will
speak at the W’ednesday morning session on “The Role of
Recreation in an Aflluent Society.” (Both his and Mr.
Flemming’s dossiers appear in the June issue of RECREATION
Magazine, page 226.)

DR. DAVID DODDS HENRY, president of the University of

270

 

 

lllinois, will address the Monday even-
ing general session on “Purposes and
” Dr. Henry’s background
eminently fits him to speak on this sub-
ject. He was president of the National
Commission on Accrediting from 1956
to 1958; vice chairman of the Presi-
dent’s Committee on Education Beyond
the High School, 1956-57; and has also
headed numerous other committees on
education and related subjects. Dr.
Henry was also vice-chancellor at New
York University, in New York City,
from 1952-55, president of Wayne Uni-
versity, Detroit, 1945-52. He holds an

even dozen honorary degrees, is a mem-

Priorities.

 

Mr. Flemming

Mr. Wadsworth ber of ten honorary societies, and au-

thor of a book, W iIIiam Vaughn Moody,

on the American poet and dramatist.

DR. PAUL GOODMAN promises provo-
cative and stimulating fare for the
Thursday evening banquet. He will
speak on the need for leisure-time pur-
suits that challenge the powers of vigor-
ous adults, including activities in the
public interest. Having his Ph.D. from
the University of Chicago, 'Dr. Cood-
man is also author, teacher, and play-
wright. He currently has three things
before the public: a thought-provoking
article called “Mass Leisure,” in the
July issue of Esquire; a recently pub-
lished book, The Empire City (Bobbs-
Merrill), which has been receiving im-
passioned reviews, both pro and con; and a verse play based
on a Biblical theme.

He has written many books on psychological and social
problems, among them the well-known The Facts of Life. He
has taught at the University of Chicago, New York Univer-
sity, and Black Mountain College, North Carolina.

 

Dr. Henry

 

Dr. Goodman

Master Sessions

Capsule descriptions of these eight sessions and their
chairmen follow below, for your planning convenience.

RECREATION

You QUESTION TIIE ENPEIITS. This will be chaired by \Vil-
liatn Frederickson, Jr., superintendent of recreation in Los
Attgcles.

THE PLACE or SPORTS AND ATIILETIcs IN TIIR COMMUNITY
RECREATION PROGRAM. The speaker will he Crcyton Hale,
on “The Value of Competitive Sports.”

TIIE ROLE OF RECREATION AGENCIES IN PItovIDING FOR TIIE
HANDICAPPED IN TIIE COMMUNtTY RECREATION PROGRAM.
This important topical discussion will be chaired by Pro-
fessor Charles Brightbill, head of the department of recrea-
tion, University of lllinois. Four speakers will discuss vari-
ous aspects of this problem.

PROFESSIONAL GROWTH TIIROUGII ON-TIIE-Jon TRAINING.
This will be chaired by Al Cttkierski, superintendent of rec-
rcation, Garden City, New York.

COMPETITION FOR LAND—How IT At-‘FECTS RECREATION.
An important session, which will be chaired by George But-
ler, director of research for the National Recreation Associ-
ation. The speaker will be Paul Opperman, executive di-
rector of the Northeastern lllinois Metropolitan Area Plan-
ning Commission.

Two sessions of vital import in these days of increased teen-
age problems are: PROBLEMS FACINc LEADERS or MODERN
TEEN-AGE GROUPS, to be chaired by Mrs. Janet MacLean, an
assistant professor in the recreation department, Indiana
University. Discussion leaders are well acquainted with the
problems and needs of youth, from several different stand-

I points. The other session is CAN ORGANIZED RECREATION
HELP PREvENT JUVENILE DELINQUENCY?, to be chaired by
Sidney Lutzin, regional director of the New York State
Youth Commission.

' Important “’0 rksltops

Three of these, ADMINISTRATIVE PROBLEMS OF CHIEF
EXECUTIVES, PROBLEMS or SUPERVISORS, and MAKING Pue-
LICATIONS EFFECTIVE, will run all Monday afternoon, from
2:00 to 5:30. The lirst will be chaired by Robert Crawford,

recreation commissioner of Philadelphia; the second, deal-

' Mr. Ryan Mr. Bostock Mr. Henderson

 

ing largely with techniques of communication between
management and employees, numbers among its program
participants H. V. Bostock, Harry Henderson, and Edward
Ryan.“ Mr. Bostock is manager of the Employees Suggestion
System, Illinois Central Railroad System; Mr. Henderson
is a representative of Burson-Marsteller Associates, a Chi-
'CORRECTION: In the June RECREATtON. the captions below Mr.
Wadsworth and Mr. Ryan were switched. They are correctly identi-

tied above. And. further, Mr. Escher works for the American Institute
of Baking not Banking. RILCREATtON regrets these eITors.

SEPTEMBER 1959

 

._ _ I
Chicago’s Oak Street Beach and famous Lake Shore Drive.

cago public relations firm; and Mr. Ryan is editor of Em-
ployee Relations Service, the Dartnell Corporation, Chicago.

The third workshop, on METHODS OF MAKING PUBLICA-
TIONS MORE EFFECTIVE, is for everyone who puts out printed
materials—bulletins, programs, annual reports, puhlic re-
lations and publicity releases, or what-have-you. It will be
chaired by Temple Jarrell, director of parks and recreation,

Fort Lauderdale, Florida.

ARTS AND CRAFTS—LOOK AND LEARN is the theme of the arts
and crafts workshop. This workshOp and demonstration will
be open and operating all day. It will be taught by craft
experts representing the Congress craft exhibitors.

MUSIC. Plans for this, which will include demonstrations of
types of community tnusic, have been taking shape under
the able leadership of William F. Bergmann, supervisor of
music, Chicago Park District.

DRAMA. This year the workshop will have a change of focus.
For the past several years, it has concentrated on creative
drama for young children; this year its jumping-off point
wdl be teen-age drama, its theme, “A Creative Approach to
Self-Expression.”

PLANNING SITES FOR SCHOOL-COMMUNITY USE. New as-

pects of the increasing joint use of community facilities
and attendent problems will be explored.

How BOARD MEMBERS CAN Do A BETTER Joe. Board mem-
bers are the liaison between the recreation department and
the community. Without a complete understanding of his
role a board member can short circuit the program.

Hotel Reservations and Registrntion

Special rates at the Morrison Hotel, for Congress dele-
gates, are as follows:

Single: $8.00; Double: $12.00; Twin: $14.50
Write the hotel at Madison and Clark Streets, Chicago 2,
Illinois. Include dates of departure and arrival.

Registration for the Congress begins at one P..\I., Sep-
tember 27, and will cost ten dollars for the week, three-fifty
daily. Wives go free. Special student rate is two dollars for
complete registration, or one dollar a day. #

271;

‘Villard C. Sutherland

DO YOU-KNOW AN INTERN?

Do you know anyone who might
be interested in an internship?
Or in having an intern on staff?

HE ESTABLISHMENT of a National Internship Program,
Tas a contribution to the training of professional rec-
reation personnel, was recommended in 1955, at the
annual meeting of the National Recreation Association’s
National Advisory Committee on Rccruitment, Training,
and Placement. In characteristic fashion, the committee
went into action immediately, with the result that the first
intern was enrolled by July, 1956. Considerable prepara-
tion was necessary to reach this point, involving strategy
and the setting up of critcria to guide the program. It was
obvious from the start that the participating parties would
include the following:
0 The universities who would nominate the candidates.
0 The students submitting themselves for the training.
0 The cities providing the training ground, the stipend,
and the day-to-day supervision.
0 The National Recreation Association, which would co-
ordinate the program, conduct the recruiting, and do the
preliminary screening of candidates.

It was decided that college graduation, with a major in
recreation, would be the minimum academic requirement.
Also, it was felt that the internships should preferably be
given to young men and women, without much experience,
who had recently completed their academic training.

The purpose of the program may bc stated as follows:

0 To strengthen the recreation movement by increasing
the number of competent leaders.
0 To aid operating agencies in finding young professional
leaders with promise for long-time growth.
0 To bridge the gap between practice and professional for-
mal education.
0 To assist recent graduatcs possessing unusual growth
potential to secure the best possible professional prepara-
tion. -
0 To strengthen the relationships between the colleges and
universities, with professional recreation curricula, and the
operating agencies.

The following obligations and responsibilities were de-

MR. SUTHERLAND is director of Recreation Personae! Serv-
ice, Nationa! Recreation Association.

272

termined for the participating parties in this program.
The interns mi”:

0 Work a full schedule equivalent to that of regular em-
ployees.

0 Plan and prepare thoroughly for all work assignments.
0 Assume rCSponsibility willingly and perform duties hon-
estly and conscientiously.

0 Evaluate activities and services for the mutual benefit
of the department and their personal development.

0 Strive for excellence in personal and professional per-
formancc and behavior.

0 Be well-groomed, appropriately dressed, tactful, friendly,
courteous, and respectful to all.

0 Consider themselves as members of the team without ex-
pecting special privileges.

0 Submit written reports to the National Recreation As-
sociation, regularly, as requested.

0 Be responsible to the agency executive or to the super-
visor assigned.

0 Continue to read and study.

The recreation agency will:

0 Work cooperatively with the National Recreation Asso-
ciation in developing a worthwhile internship experience
of value both to the intern and the department.

0 Provide, in advance, an outline of the duties and respon-
sibilities the intern is expected to assume.

0 Plan rotated work assigmnents so the trainee may have
well-balanced experiencc.

0 Provide day-to-day assignments and supervision.

0 Schedule regular meetings with the intern for guidance
and evaluation of his experience.

0 Reimburse the intern in an amount not less than that
paid for beginning, full-time, year-round positions.

0 Provide the National Recreation Association with re-
quired progress reports, not less than four times during the
year of internship.

0 Submit, in advance, information about facilities, lead-
ership, and program to the National Recreation Associa-
tion.

The National Recreation Association will:

0 Grant free registration to all interns at district confer-

RECREATION

'I-I

 

ences, National Recreation Congresses, institutes and spe-
cial meetings, or programs sponsored and conducted by the
Association.

0 Maintain accurate records of decisions, policies, and ac-
tions.

0 Collect testimonials, evidence, and evaluations from all
cooperating parties for use in improving and expanding
the program.

0 Seek and obtain requests for interns from communities
with outstanding recreation programs.

0 Work out cooperatively with the local departments spe-
cial arrangements to help them gain local acceptance of the
plan.

0 Recruit and screen applicants for internships.

0 Refer and assign interns after careful evaluation of
ageney requests and student applications.

0 Establish and maintain a selected reading program.

0 Assist the operating agencies and interns through cor-
respondence and field consultation throughout the training.

0 Receive and evaluate reports from the interns.

0 Receive and evaluate reports from the agencies.

0 Issue certificates of achievement to the interns on suc-
cessful completion of the program.

0 Render special aid in the advancement and permanent
placement of interns who have successfully completed the
training program and received National Recreation Asso-
ciation certificates.

If you find a potential intern or employ one. these state-
ments are important to pass on to him as he enters the pro-
gram:

0 Opportunities are made—they don't just happen.

0 Remember that many people have contributed. directly
and indirectly, to make this internship possible. They in-
clude members of the staff of the agency where you are to
train; staff members of the National Recreation Associa-
tion: your college proIessors; members of your family and
citizens whom you may never know but who have helped
through the years by their support, financial or otherwise,
to build up and advance' the entire recreation movement.
0 The process of study and growth is a never-ending (me.

SEPTEMBER 1959

Charles Ilartsoe (left) was the first intern to compfete
training under the Nationaf Reereation Association pro-
gram. Here, he reeeives his eerti/icate from Mrs. lViNiam
L. Van Aien, NRA vice-president, after finishing his year
with the f’hifadeiphia Recreation Department. Robert Craw-
ford, Phifadeiphia’s recreation commissioner, Iooks on.
The program provides for intensive postgraduate education.

This is a unique opportunity to continue your professional
preparation.
0 The opportunities inherent in your internship will be
realized in direct proportion to your willingness and capac-
ity to evoke them for your professional development.

If you are taking an intern on your staff, here is a final
check on your preparation:
0 Have final plans been made for the intern's arrival?
0 llas your staff been prepared for his coming?
0 Are plans clear for the intern’s induction and orienta.
lion?
0 Will he understand his beginning assignment?
0 Is the long-range program understood by everyone in-
volved in the intern’s training?
0 If your own son or daughter were going into a strange
city to work with strangers, to face new experiences, is there
anything else that you would want the supervisor to do?

I I I I

Since the internship program started in the summer of
1956, twenty-two interns have been enrolled. They are
recreation majors with either undergraduate or graduate
degrees, or both, from Indiana University, Illinois Uni-
versity, San Francisco College, University of California,
Pennsylvania State University, Temple l'niversity, or
Springfield College. Ten of the interns had masters de-
grees before applying. Six are still in training. while six-
teen have completed the program. The results, to date, in-
dicate the definite need for this type of professional prepa-
ration.

In addition to the internships, the Association has a
graduate assistance program, just getting under way. A
special foundation grant has been received, through the
NRA Consulting Service on Recreation for the lll and Hand-
icapped, to aid students who wish to prepare for work with
these specialized groups. (See page 259.)

Candidates for both the internships and the graduate as-
sistance program for work with the ill and handicapped
should submit their appfications to the Association at their

car! y eonrenience.’ 

273

 

 
 
 

A REPORTER’S NOTEBOOK

 

American Playground in Russia

Recreation was not left behind in the
recent Russian-American exchange of
Up-to-date
equipment from America was displayed
in the American National Exhibit last
July at Moscow’s Sokolniki Park. Rus-
sian adults had the opportunity to
watch Russian children enjoying mod-

exhibitions. playground

ern equipment (produced and supplied
by Creative Playthings’ Play Sculptures
division) such as is available to young-
sters in the U.S.A.

The thrce-thousand-foot playground
layout resembled that in use in such
cities as Philadclphia, New York, Pitts-
burgh, and Los Angeles. It demon-
stratcd equipmcnt made of fiberglass,

 

Frank Capfan points to model of pfay-
ground set up on grounds of American

National Exhibit, in Soholnihi Park.

cast aluminum, steel, and concrete, do-
natcd by thc company; to the exhibit at
cost. Two pieces on display in Moscow
are relatively new items, now being
tested in Philadelphia parks and in the
Evansville, lndianafRehabilitation
Center.

Creative Playthings president Frank
Caplan said, “Nothing impresses Euro-
peans and Asians more than what
America does for its children.” Adja-
cent to the model playground was a
camping exhibit showing current
American equipment and techniques.

274

IMPORTANT!
The Ninth Annual Meeting of the

Conference for National Cooperation
in Aquatics will be held in New Havcn,
Connecticut, from October 14 through
16. As a member of the conference, the
National Recreation Association is en-
titled to send fifteen delegates. Any
associate or affiliate of the NRA, inter-
ested in attending this meeting, should
write to the Association, c/o George
Butler, immediately, for a preliminary
registration 'form and morc information.

Names in the News

John S. Nagy. Cleveland, Ohio, and, in-
directly, its
under Mr. Nagy’s guidance as commis-
sioner for the past fifteen years, has
received the Silver Anvil Award from
the American Public Relations Associa-
tion. Given for an outstanding public

recreation department,

relations program in the field of enter-
tainment and recreation, it amounts to
first prize in this division.

Mr. Nagy, however, is in the news
every year, just about when the weather
starts warming up. Why? \Vomen’s
bathing suits, that’s why. In his oHicial
capacity as commissioner, he must sur-
vey the new fashions in suits and decide
which ones he will allow at city pools
and beaches. Mr. Nagy took an anti-
Bikini stand this year.

Charfes A. DeTurk was recently ap-
pointed hy the governor of California
to succecd Newton B. Drury as chief
of the California Division of Beaches
and Parks. Governor Brown said of
DeTurk that “he is eminently qualified”
for the job, being one of the nation’s
foremost park authorities. He has been
a state-park planner for Washington
since 1950 and, before that, worked
in Detroit and lndiana. Among other
things, Mr. DeTurk is a past president
of the National Conference on State

Parks and a former president of the
Washington Society of Landscape Ar-
chitects. He is also a member of NRA’s
National Advisory Committee on Rec-
reation Research.

Daniel R. Furman is the new recreation
superintendent of the Los Angeles
County Department of Parks and Rec-
reation, which he joined in 1956. His
previous experience includes service
as superintendent of the Downey Rec-
reation District, California, and as a

public school teacher. He holds his BS

in education from the University of
lllinois.

John C. Considine, general superin-
tendent of recreation, Detroit Parks
and Recreation Department, and a past
member of the President’s Citizens Ad-
visory Committee on the Fitness of
American Youth, is retiring this com-
ing October. { See A pril, 1959, issue of
RECREATION for articfe he wrote on fit-
ness.)

No Ideas Barred

A free-wheeling brainstorming scs-
sion, held at the National Recreation
Association last spring, generatcd a
flow of stimulating ideas. Sparked by
a new Group Brainstorming Kit, a spe-
cially planned demonstration session,
attended by recreation directors, in-
tcrns, and NRA staff, proved that brain-
storming aimed at a single target is a
powerful force. (See “Brainstorming in
Recreation,” RECREATION, June, 1957.)

Thc brainstorming technique, a crea-
tive group process used to help solve
problems and build fresh ideas, has
been adopted by community funds,
family welfare associations, YM’s and
YW’s as a training tool, and has be-
come routine practice in many indus-
tries, such as General Electric and
Westinghouse. The goal is to pile up a
quantity of ideas unhampered by any
critical or judicial inhibition. Later a
committee evaluates the stockpile of
ideas.

The new kit, designed as functional
aid to undam a flow of creative ideas,
consists of a 60-frame, 35mm film strip
in full color, a 12-inch recording, with
automatic and manual signal, and an
instruction guide. The kit sells for
$25. For further information, write
Marketing Communications, Inc., 45

' RECREATION

l

West 45th St.. Dept. R., New York 36.

NRA Notes

As recreation takes a tremendous up-
surge all over the country, so does the
work of the National Recreation As-
sociation’s d i st r i c t representatives,
callcd DR’s for short. They are the men
in the field. with their hands on the
recreation pulse of America, working
steadily and quietly day after day, week
after week, Spending more time travel-
ing than at home. Here is news on some
of their activities.

A luncheon was given to honor NRA
Southwest district representative Har-
old Van Arsdale, on Friday, June 19,
in San Antonio, Texas, by that city’s
park and recreation department. He
was presented with a beautiful plaque,
inscribed: “In appreciation of his sin-
cere efforts to promote the recreation
movement in the Southwest and for his
devoted friendship." He was also given
an honorary life membership in the
Texas Recreation Society at the spring
district conference in El Paso. Mr. Van,
as they call him in Texas, will retire
December 31, this year, after sixteen
years with the Association.

Two honors were awarded Richard S.
\Vestgate. DR for the Middle Atlantic
States. The New York Recreation So-
eiety presented him an award for
"Meritorious Service Over a Number
of Years” at its conference in Elmira,
New York, last April. In May, Dick
received the Pennsylvania Hon or
Award for outstanding leadership in
recreation. awarded him by the Penn-
sylvania Recreation Society.

Our own Helen Dauncey, NRA social

 

recreation specialist, seems puzzled at
the antics of Mrs. Charlotte Nick. Bit-

SEPTEMBER 1959

burg Air Base, and Lt. George Conn,
llahn Air Base, as they try to unsnarl
themselves from the “String Trick.”
Miss Dauncey was invited by the rec-
reation division of the United States
Air Force in Europe, to conduct work-

shops for youth leaders at the Wies-
baden Germany) AYA.

We did not have room in the June issue
to run pictures of second and third
prize winners in the Recreation Design
Contest, jointly sponsored by The Art
School of Pratt Institute, in Brooklyn,
and the National Recreation Associa-
tion (see page 246 0/ that issue).

The prizes were
a w a r d e d at a
brunch given at
NRA headquarters
on May 27 for the
p r i z e winners;
Pratt Art School
s t a ff members,
Fritz Eichenberg,
_ chairman of the
Second Prize department of
graphic arts, and Albert Christ-Janet,
dean of The Art School; the judges;
artists; representatives of various mag-
azines and organizations; Theodore
Kegelman of the East River Savings
Bank, which displayed the winners in
its windows. Grant Titsworth, then

chairman of the NRA Board, and

 

find N EW WORLDS
through recreauon

'- mun-1“

Fl” HEW WORL¥C YD‘IROUGH RECREATION

  

Third Prize

Joseph Prendergast, NRA executive
director, acted as hosts.

Second prize of fifty dollars went
to Richard G. Bennett, Brooklyn, New
York; third prize of twenty-five dollars
to Stephen Perry, also of Brooklyn.

 

3n gratin-tam

 

o The many friends of Arthur Todd
will he grieved to learn of the death of
his daughter Mary Katherine in a Den-
ver hospital this last May 23, of the

relatively unknown disease, myasthenia
gravis. She was twenty-one.

Before Art Todd left on a leave of ab-
sence, to become chief of the recreation
management branch for the United
States Air Force in Enrolm, he had been
Midwest district representative for the
National Recreation Association.

0 Headquarters staff was deeply
shocked to learn of the death of Mary
llohnes, in Springfield, Massachusetts,
at the age of thirty-three. Mary had re-
signed her job as assistant in the NRA
Special Publications department and as
editor of AGBOR, because of ill health
the middle of May, after being with
NRA almost five years.

0 Recreation in the South lost a good
friend when Herman F. A. Lange, di-
rector of parks and recreation for
Greenvillc, South Carolina, since 1912,
died on April 25. He was sixty-three.
lle had been in poor health for several
years.

Mr. Lange, an NRA member, was
also past president of the South Caro-
lina Recreation Society, former secre-
tary-treasurer of the Southeastern
Parks and Recreation Planning Main-
tenance and Operation Workshop, and,
for several years, state chairman of
membership for the American Institute
of Park Executives.

0 Charles B. Scully, former director of
first aid, water safety, and accident
prevention of the New York Chapter of
the American Red Cross, died June 13,
at his home in Islip, Long Island, New
York. He was sixty-three.

He joined the Red Cross in 1919, and
was credited with saving over four hun-
dred lives during his thirteen years as
a lifeguard at several Brooklyn beaches.
In 1926, Mr. Scully received a Congres-
sional medal for saving ten lives during
a very tricky rescue.

Mr. Scully was a member of the NRA
and had participated in Congress pro-
grams the past two years. He was also
chairman of the recreation commission
for the Township of Islip and was on
the national board of the Campfire

Girls.

0 The Connecticut Recreation Society
has established a scholarship. to be
awarded this year in the name and
memory of George Anger, who died
last October.

275

STRICTLY FROM CORN

MANY YEARS AGO my brother and I spent long happy

hours on rainy days in the corner of a big frame gran-
ary, playing with stacks of clean cobs and husks my

father left as he carefully selected his seed corn. Mother 013- ' A creature of the wilder
casionally came to see our play but didn’t have much time to lmm‘er: Mr- com Stublrle, him
complete with cob J

husk nose, dried tassel 1
tattered shack suit, ja
slouch of the early plains:

Mamie Re,

help since we were just two of a large, busy farm family.

(Continued on page 278)

Scarecrow, below, does
[are a regal, disdaz
pheasant. Corncobs and c
stalks give city chil:

a new tactile experience as
construct decorat-i

 

Theme inspires a wide range of
fanciful figures, animals, birds.

 

RECREATION

Students rise to aeed [or “htjan Smmaer”

decorations and tabie favors,
iagenioasiy transform stapie .-"Uida:est product.

Distinctive autumn. arrangement captures spirit 0/ the
bound/u! harvest-home and Ilaiioween season.

I'

Right, Iively, tome-jointed feNow
is ail set to do-si-do and away we go!

SEPTEMBER 1959

 

 

Anything is possible. Corn constructions range from party
favors to stig-necked gira§es and myriad-legged insects,
from dolls and decorations to Indian chieftains and tepees.

STRICTLY FROM CORN

 

Perhaps my interest in using the waste products of corn
goes back those many years. At any rate, when the Illinois
Art Education Conference was held in Danville. we had the
right season and an apprOpriate theme—Injun Summer——
to see what town children would do with a farm product.

Using such a Midwest staple and having all the children
participate in the making of table decorations and favors
were excellent means of getting widespread local attention.
Early in the fall. the country teachers were invitcd to share
with us the responsibility for the dccorations. They were
shown a few examples of cornhusk construction and were
invited to attend one of the two workshOps set up to prepare
the school district’s 118 teachers for introducing the proj-
ect in their classrooms.

To the children, the feel of the cobs and cornstalks was
a new experience. It took about thirty minutes for the stu-

dents to get into an exploratory mood—then the fun began.
They were shown how a pliable wire could be run through
the pithy cornstalk center in order to make the construc-
tion sturdy or ready for joining and fastening. Soaked
husks or ralha were recommended for tying. If a creature
wouldn’t stand alone, he was mounted on a base by driving
finishing nails through a piece of rough board or a gnarled
hunk of wood and pressing the core of the cob or stalk over
the point of the nail.

Another suggestion was made to cut the cobs into sec-
tions, splitting some, issuing different lengths and, above all,
using irregularities—knobs or husks left on after corn
was picked. Stalk and cob sections were combined or used
separately. Thinner cross-sections of cobs made excellent
feet, and these same sections, divided into half-circles, could
he used for mouths or ears.

At the end of two hours, the corn creations ranged from
a small, coy donkey to a dramatic scarecrow whose feet were
made from tiny, undeveloped ears of corn. Other innova-
tions were a funny, long-jointed creature that could dangle
from a support or, perhaps, a hangman’s noose at Hallow-
een; hird forms of all sizes; and an Indian chief, complete
with loincloth, and Indian maidens.

Prior to the workshops, a skeleton lesson plan, listing
materials available, had been sent to each teacher. They
were cautioned that the children’s pieccs should be kept
simple in design, not overadorned, in keeping with the
rustic material as well as the theme. However, they were not
linlitcd to using the materials listed in the lesson plan. Many
other appropriate materials were suggested and used by
the teachers in the workshops, then introduced into the
classroom. Thus the project represented a great variety
of ingenious ideas.

The illustrations here show only a few of the very un-
usual creations developed. As we made the rounds of the
buildings, we found something new and different in almost
every classroom. #

MAMIE ROGERS is director of art. Danville, Illinois, Public
Schools. Reprinted, with permission, from Arts and Activitics.

 

Credo For Aquatics

The Conference for National Cooperation in Aquatics be-
lieves that:

> Aquatics is one of the best recreation activities
for the entire family.

> Under competent leadership, swimming and aqua-
tic activities can contribute to physical, mental, and
social fitness.

> Everyone should have the opportunity to improve
his knowledge of water safety and should be en-
couraged to take advantage of this opportunity.

> C00perative community aquatic programs help re-
duce water accidents.

> The primary objective of water safety instruction

278

is to make the individual safe while in, on, or about

the water.

> Every community has a responsibility to develop

adequate aquatic facilities.

> Existing aquatic facilities should be utilized to

the fullest.

> Education in aquatics should be included in the

program of every school system.

> Swimming is a healthful activity in which almost

everyone can participate, including those with phy-

sical limitations.

* All interested groups and individuals should work

together to promote aquatics.

This credo, approved by twenty-two organizations, of

which the National Recreation Association is one, is avail-
able in poster form for ten cents from the Conference, 1201

16th Street, N.W., Washington 6, D.C.

RECREATION '

HE on Ml‘lt‘ LAMES inspired a
Tspecial event used at (lamp Doug-
las Smith. -a community camp of
seventy-four campers and staff of ap-

proximately thirty-five on [Fpper liam-
lin Lake, near Ltulington, \fichigau.

Each camper was given the honor of
running a distance of approximately
one sixth of a mile, with the Olympic
torch. Staff members were sent out
earlier, to map a course and locate re-
lay points at which the runners would
he wailing. After these were established
we had a total of thirteen stations with
five to nine runners each. There were
as many stations and runners as trans-
portatiou and supervision allowed. A
total of seventy-two campers took part.

Our camp is divided into four Indian
tribes, for the usual competitions. This
division was retained, but the tribes
were temporarily renamed, to represent
four nations in our Olympics.

The entire program, including get-
ting peOple to their posts and coming
from Ludingtou to Camp Douglas
Smith, took approximately three hours.
After lunch and a rest period, the four

 

- --r —

MR. OSTRANDER is camp and recreation
director, Winnetka Community House,
Winnetka. Illinois.

TRY THE OLYMPIC PATTERN

new!) tormed nations llldl’t lied Ill

single file. displaying their banners.

unto the athletic field and took up their

positions.

The first station was in Ludiugton,
with six runners: and, after a brief
ceremony explaining what we were
about to undertake, the Ulympir torch
was lighted.

The cars worked in relays. a car de-
livering six runners to six designated
points along the route. .\s the first in
his group handed the torch to the see-
oud, the car would pick up the first
rnuner, then follow slowly behind the
second until he had passed the torch to
the third, pick up the second ruuuer, re.-
peatiug this procedure until all six run-
ners had been picked up. Then the.
car would return to camp to pick up a
new group of campers and deliver them
to their designated relay points ahead
of the torch bearer.

The cooperation of the city police
during the run through Ludington, and
of the sheriff’s patrol after leaving
the city limits, was greatly appreciated
and certainly added a feeling of security
to the whole event. The distance from
the start to the dock opposite camp.
where the torch was transferred to a
canoe, was approximately clever: miles.

and [he distame was funded Ill [bout
one. uud three quarters hours “illtultl
mishap. \t the dock at twin ftnnl camp,
the torch was gixen [u a Lattit-‘l’ in a
canoe paddled by two other tumpers.
Halfway at'l’nss the lake, the torch was
transferred to still mother ruune. A
trash boat patrolled the area during this
aquatic phase of the Olympics. M the
camp dock. the torch was giveu to the
last runner, who ran between two lines
formed by the campers. up to the could
run to light the stadium.

l‘ivents included the javelin. sltulwpul,
discus and ball throw, high jump, broad
jump, low hurdles, ."iU-yard (lash, 100-
vard dash, llO-yard relay and 22fl-yard
relay. The Olympics ended with rec-
ognitiou of each place winner, by
having him take his place on the win-
ner’s staud.

It was another new experience for the
campers. a challenge to organization,
and made a lasting impression on their
minds. In a free society. where each per-
son is an individual and where everyone
must competc as well as cooperate. to
stay strong, this program has definite
value for boys of this age. 

[See also “Too Much Complacency"
by John J. Considine, April 1959 REC-
REATION.—Ed.l

Robert  Ostrandcr

A program of this sort can stimulate an interest in and understanding of the
Olympic Games and their underlying ideals. l t can be used on day outings, hikes, or as part of playfield events.

Olympic run 0/ torch carriers started in town with short
ceremony based upon topics of sportsmanship and fair play.

SEPTEMBER 1959

 

Lighted torch was transferred from runner to canoe for the
last lap of the eleven-trifle run. Course tool: three hours.

27!:

 

Is ‘our ro ram “all n- lon, neon
3 p

and chrome?”

Joseph E. Curtis

LET’S

DE'SOPHISTICATE

ms 15 A PLEA for recreation de-
Tpartmcnts all over the country to

take a hard, objective look at
their activities and opcrating policies
with an eye to rcducing their rich pro-
gram fare. Perhaps it can be blamed in
part on television, part on our accel-
erating world life, part on space aware-
ness, and part on a lot of othcr things,
but the
pede to soup up or apply “slickem” to

net rcsult is a mild stam-
many of our programs and activities.
Many recreation executivcs have sprin-
kled their schedules liberally with
sports ear “gymkhanas,” social-dance
classes for mere tykes, holiday parades
of flashy convertibles loaded with girls,
bcauty eontests, fashion shows for
youngsters. and some herculean efforts
to bring as much of the equipment,
techniques, lingo, AND expense of
adult professional sports into the world
of children’s games. Your author is
no exception.

What do we hope to achieve? We
may transform the community recrea-
tion program from a dusty, tousle-
haircd, “patehed-in-the-seat” kind of
thing into something of nylon, neon,

and ehrome.

Let’s de-sophisticate! Let’s keep our
enthusiasm high, stimulating people to
participate, rathcr than merely to

MR. CURTIS is commissioner of recrea—
tion. White Piains. New York. and has
written severai articies for RECREATION.

280

watch, but let's stress more of the
wholesome, and less of the gaudy and
flashy program ideas.

Making men and women out of our
youngsters too soon, with heavy em-
phasis on social and ballroom dancing
at thc agcs of ninc through twelve
years, is one speeific demonstration of
The natural
tcndency of boys to prefer rough, he-
man activities, rather than dancing and
parlor gaincs, is often thwarted by well-

this salute to “glamour.”

 

Should

“You must foam to dance!”
our chiid'ren. be strong-armed
into adult social-dance situations?

intentioned social directors, profession-
al and lay, who cajole the sheepish
ten-year-old with “but you must learn
to dance!” Then when Junior’s resist-
ance cracks to the extent that he has

  

learned a few stiff steps, he is literally
shoved into social-dance situations and
encouraged to place this type of rec-
reation high on his “must-do” list.
Needless to say, be either braves thc
next few years, uncomfortably tolerat-
ing thesc dance situations, or he be-
comes gcnuinely interested in thcnt to
an extent that his interest in some of
the more boyish, robust outdoor activi-
ties may wane.

If this type of social pressure were
left to individuals, damage might re-
main small, but of late many recreation
departments have aidcd and abetted
this movement to makc our youngsters
old before their time. Dancc'classes
are meticulously organized and oper-
ated for pint-sized participants. The
old-fashioned waltz and foxtrot take a
back seat to thc mambo, the cha-cha-
cha, and the Meringue. Recently, some
departments have teamed up with large
retail stores and have staged children’s
fashion shows in conjunction with
these dances. Do thc childrcn model
conventional children’s clothes? No!I
They caper in scaled-down versions of
what glamorous adults wear, from
strapless evening gowns and high heels
for tiny girls to tuxedos and Homburgs
for diminutive “men.”

Why ean’t this age group be encour-
aged to add new sports and skills to its
repertoire and utilize square and folk
dancing, roller skating, musical games,

and vigorous boy-girl party games.

RECREATION

Putting parades together used to
mean ranks of marchers, decorated
floats, colorful signs, live bands, and
forests of flags and banners. l’m cer-
lltain most readers, however, have come
across recent parades, some put on with
recreation-department assistance, con-
sisting of a half-dozen late-model con-
Ivertihles borrowed from local car deal-

 

  
 
  

   

-.-_-_--
hams]

__ v __
. rttttltttllttt _

_M_

  
  
  
 

   
    

,qH.‘ i..— .nn— ran--

 

#-

The automobile is here to stay but
re motorcades recreation?

rs (and labeled with advertising
igns) ; a truck or two, scantily decor-

ted with a few strands of crepe paper, '

nd mounted with a raucous, public-
ddress system, playing canned music.
The automobile has become a big
factor in the life of the modern Ameri-
can teenager. This is a fact of life and
undeniable. However, must we, as pro-
ksionals, encourage this almost fana-
'c interest in cars and riding by spon-
toring hot-rod auto. shows, driving
ymkhanas, sports-car shows, motor-

chs to and from places? Isn’t it a

art of our responsibility, as fitness-
1inded people, to counter some of the
zy, car-riding habits of today by re-
‘indling interest in hiking, bicycling?
.et's chip away some of the golden aura
hat surrounds the ear in the teenager’s
litltl, and replace it with an affection
r fast. strong legs and trim buttocks.
'eedless to say there is little to justify
to recent establishment of midget-rac-

  
 
   
   
  
  
  

car clubs using, tiny, powered rac-
s. piloted by drivers as young as five
1d six. After hours behind the wheel
f a powerful little racing car, what
arm could remain for a child in a
aw bicycle or a pair of roller skates?
When it comes to the sports water-

ays, a similar intoxication exists

It'TEMBI—th 195‘)

where the outboard motor is concerned.
Sheltered waterways are crammed these
summer days with youths of all ages
driving every conceivable type and
size of inboard powerboat, the faster
the better. Sailboats, rowboats, and
canoes are few and far between. Rec-
reation departments can do so much to
bring back their popularity! Here I
have a beef with water skiing, for the
time, expense and equipment involved,
it serves very few people. It is pure fun,
of course, but offers little in the way of
body development or carry-over, skills
for other sports. Relatively few people
ever do more than try it once or twice
for kicks. The water-ski event's chance
of being included in the Olympics is
dim, to say the least. Meanwhile, this
activity needs fast, powerful boats, and
large portions of water area become
too dangerous for other activities while
skiing is going on.

Little League has done a fantastic
job in reviving interest in baseball and
providing rigorous sport for millions of
boys. However, there is little need for
much of the lingo and paraphernalia
many individuals bring into their youth
sports programs. Miniature ball parks
include public-address systems, for in-
stance, that announce the name of each
player coming to bat as though he were
a star: expensive equipment, such as
heavy football helmets, have ponderous
plastic chin guards for cight-year-olds
who are exposed to little or no risk of
serious chin injury such as might oc-
cur to older players. Unnecessarily
gaudy uniforms, warm-up jackets, and
sweat shirts might well be replaced by
less expensive but serviceable baseball
suiLs or uniform T-shirts. -These should
replace the glamour embellishments
that tend to jazz up our children’s
sports.

You can lop off much of this artifi-
ciality, this Madison Avenue chrome,
from your programs, without doing
serious harm. Trim the glamour-fat
from your activities. The positive re-
sults from your program will, in time,
show a marked increase in interest and
attendance.

Stress, instead, the simpler, less ex-
pensive, and more basic types of activi-
ties. lliking, running events, bicycling.
throwing. community singing, acting,

square dancing, constructing, simple
camping, swimming, rowing—these
are the things that should be stressed.
Santa Claus’ arrival on an old fash-
ioned sled may not make as hot news
cepy as would his advent by sports car,
jeep, army tank, helicopter, or jet, but
it makes better traditional community
recreation for the kids, the kind they
can understand and cherish for years
to come! Ease up on the garish, the
artificial, the “quick, easy, and big.”
Feature the human, the handcraft way,
the live band, the warm, full voices ( off-
key included), the foot-travel way, the
intimate, the small-town way. For my
own department, I’ve set three desired
goals which guide our choice of activi-
ties: (a) Fitness through Fun; (b)
Family Recreation; (c) Community
Spirit.

“Fitness through Fun” means get-
ting the point across to youth and
young adults that it’s fun to box, to lift
weights, to run, to hike, to swim—and
also that a fitter, trimmer body will be
a byproduct. Family Recreation, a

 

Do eight-year-ofd boys need gaudy
big-league paraphernalia?

“must” for any sound-thinking recrea-
tion department, means skating parties,
picnics, outings, shows, trips, and
countless other events, all with a family
flavor. Community spirit implies events
such as parades, municipal birthdays,
celebrations to kindle and nourish a
genuine feeling of liking your town.
The jet-atomic-rocket age is here and
we stand on the threshhold of outer
space. llowever, mark my words, even
on the moon there’ll be room for a
sqnare dance, a minstrel show, a volley-
ball game and other “old-fashioned”
leisure-time diversions. #

281

 

THE GAME OF

KWAT P’AI

Elliott M. Cohen
scar HUNDRED and fifty years
E ago, in the time of Kao-Tsung (a
Chinese emperor who lived be-
tween 1127 and 1163 A.D.) there was a
great argument concerning the game of
Kwat P’ai or bone tahlets. The dispute
centered around the fact that it was
played with one set of rules in Burma
and another in Siam. The Koreans re-
garded Kwat P’ai as a vulgar game and
called it Hohpai, or Foreign Tablets.
Persons of higher social rank did not
wish it known that they played this
game. Finally an imperial edict was is-
sued, standardizing Kwat P’ai into the
game we know today as dominoes.

Although the origin of the game is
obscure, it can be traced to ancient Ori-
ental religious rituals having to do with
cosmic forces. The name domino has
a European origin, being named after
a fanciful half mask called a domino,
used in masquerades. Dominoes are
believed to have a common origin with
dice, and some say they are as old as
man himself.

Although dominoes are rectangular
pieces of bone, ivory, or wood, and
each piece, called a bone, is divided in
the center into two “ends” and marked
by dots, there are numerous variations
in the number of pieces used, and in
the markings themselves. Dominoes
vary in size also. Standard American
dominoes are two inches long by one
inch wide by a quarter of an inch deep.
Today you can get a set of dominoes
four and a half inches long by two and
a quarter inches wide and one inch
deep, with recessed markings, so that
persons who are partially sighted, or
have physical problems handling small
objects, may play with relative ease.
Even Braille dominoes are available.

Here are a few of the many games
that can be played. Since most people
are familiar with the game for two

players, here are some for more:

 

MR. COHEN is assistant to the director of
the NRA Consulting Service on Recrea-
tion for the Ill and Handicapped.

282

 

Matadore1 is a game for four players.
Each one draws a domino, and the
highest double goes first (or the high-
est number). Each player takes seven
dominoes. First puts down his highest

THIRD FIRST
—
SECOND THIRD

domino and, going clockwise, the next
player must try to put down a domino
so that it will equal seven. For instance,
if the first one down is a double five,
the next person must put down a two.
Now, if the other end of the two is a
three, the next person has a choice of
putting down a four or a two.

Four dominoes are the Matadores.
These are the double blank and the
three dominoes that equal sevcn: six-
one; five-two; four-three. Any of the
Matadores may be played at any time
when you are blocked, and the follow-
ing player has the alternative of play-
ing another Matadore or putting down
a domino that will follow the seven
pattern.

lf a player cannot play, he says
“Co,” and the next person plays. The
first one who uses up his dominoes
wins.

Tortoise‘ is an interesting Korean vari-
ation. The object is .to lay the domin-
oes out in the shape of a tortoise. Four
people may play. Each player draws
seven dominoes. Each player may play
a domino at any of the ends by match-
ing, when his turn comes.

v

Suppose the first player puts down

a six-two. The second player mus
match either the six or the two. If thu
second player puts down a two-fou1
the third has the option of playing a
four or a six, as long as he keeps tht
formation. The game is continued it
the same way. The first one to use 11;
his tiles wins.
Ten Slto‘ is a Japanese game of domin‘
oes played by two to four players. The
pieces are divided and placed face
down in a stack in front of the play-
ers. Each player draws a domino from
his pile and puts it on the table, face Up.
If a player lays down a duplicate of a
previous one, he takes both pieces and
gets ten points. If his piece, added to
the previous one, adds to ten, he gets
ten more points. As the game pro-
gresses, each player continues to go un-
til he can take no more from the table.
The game is over when a player has no
dominoes left.

In Cimme‘ each of four players is
given six dominoes. The remaining
four are placed face up in the center.
The first player tries to match one of
the ends with one he has in his hand. If
he does, he takes both dominoes and
places them face up in front of him.
If he cannot, he places one of his own
in the center. The next player has the
option of matching one in the center
or 111atching one or more of the ones the
opponents have in front of them. The
game is over when someone'is out of
dominoes. The one with the most pieces
wins.

Dominoes, in its simplest to its most '
complicated form, is for everyone in
every kind of recreation program.

References

l. Foster’s Complete Hoyle, R. F. Fos-
ter.* Philadelphia: I. B. Lippincott.

2. The New Complete Hoyle, edited by
Richard L. Frey. New York: Double-
day. I

3. The Fun EncycloPedia, E. O. Har-
bin. Nashville, Tennessee: Abing-I
don Press.

4». Games of the Orient, Stewart Culin.
Rutland, Vermont: Charles E. Tut-

tle Company.

*Available from the NRA Recreation

Book Center, 8 West Eighth Street,
New York 11.

RECREATION

TIPS ON VISITING EXHIBITS

Tm: cosvex'rlox exhibit hall is usu-

ally the finest concentration of in-
formation, product samples, ideas, and
better business aids that a business man

  
   
   
 
   
   
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
   
 
  
 
  
 
   
  
  
   
  
   
   
 
  

can see assembled in one place. Yet
only a small percentage of conven-
tioneers take anywhere near the full
dvantage of this opportunity, usually
0 colorfully and interestingly set up.

lieasons for attending conventions
arc numerous. Business, usually, is the
hief reason, as the entire program
naturally built around better prod-
cts, methods, and ideas. Other rea-
ons include thc relaxation of taking a
rip, renewal of old fricndships, and
'espite from business pressures.

From the business end of conven-
ioneering, there are chances to learn
nswers to problems at the various ses-
'ons; to make contact with manufac-
urers, wholesalers, and distributors;
nd to pick up merchandising aids and
leas. Ohviously you do not want to
'pend every minute between scheduled
)usiness and e'ntcrtaimnent sessions on
he exhibit-hall floor. The question is
ow to get the most out of the exhibits.
efore leaving for the convention, make
list of problems that have bothered
in during the past year. Make notes
It the particular companies or indivi-
als you wish to see for assistance.

Too often, the conventionecr makes

The following list of hints has been
mpiled for your bowling information
d guidance. 1. Be sure to arrive late
about the third frame. It attracts
tention to you and encourages your
m. 2. Hunt through all the racks for
ur ball. lf you can’t find it, raise
k with the proprictor, your captain,
anyhody. Be sure to do it so loudly
t everyone will know how badly you
treated and will sympathize with
r low scorc. 3. Be surc to approach
that you deliver thc ball at the some

MEMBER 1959

one quick spin around the booths, pick-
ing up samples of almost everything
that comes within his reach. Seldom
does he ask questions, and oftcn hc
waits until reprcsentatives are absent,
to slip by and pick Up items in which he
may be interested. This is a good
method of short-changing himself.
Generally, field men agree a two-trip
tour does the job best.

Trip One should include a general
swing around thc cxhibit hall, gather-
ing materials on a once-over-lightly
basis, noting individuals and firms
with whom you may wish to discuss
matters later, or whose displays or
products arouse your interest. Trip
Two is Inorc Specific. Now you gct
down to details, going back to selected
booths, asking questions, discussing
problems, enlarging your library of
literature on special interest items.

The exhibitor’s representative is
there to provide service, as well as make
sales. But he is also there to answer
questions and help with problems that
may have developed in rcgard to’his
product or service. He can suggest
ways and means for merchandising
and, perhaps, new uses. At a conven-
tion you have your man trapped. Pin
him down on service and delivery, on
promises not kept, on product mal-
function. Suggest either more or less
frequent calls. Invite a sales pitch:

BOWL ’EM OVER! -

time as thc guy on the next alley; this
keeps you in rhythm with him and will
be appreciated by everyonc. 4. After
delivering your ball, dancc around,
wavc your arm, back over into the
other alley. This givcs thc other guy
a chance to see how your ball is doing.
5. lf you have something important to
tcll your buddy, wait until hc is making
his approach; thcn yell at him loudly.
This will givc him something to con-
ccntratc on during his delivery. 6. lf
you get thirsty, wait until you’re about

make him show you why his product is
better. Ask him how to Inerchandisc
the product better, and for any avail-
ahle sales aids.

lie charitable to the exhibitors. They
have gone to considerable effort and
expense to comc to the convcntion, set
up and assign men to help you. Lct
thcm make their pitch . . . you might
bc interested. lt pays to attend a con-
vention with an open mind.

What about cxhibitor literature?
Load up! On your quick tour around
the booths, gather any material oflcred,
if it has the least bit of application to
your problems. On the specific tour,
you will have a chance to concentrate
on thosc firms that provided materials
the most interesting and potcntially
profitable to you. Judge each piece of
material hefore discarding it. Recon-
sider the familiar, and give every con-
sideration to new material.

Once you’re home, thc convention
can continue to benefit you, but not if
everything garnered there—materially
and mentally—is forgotten. Examine
each idea, product datum, merchandis-
ing suggestion, Sales aid, and success
story; determine how any or all might

be made to work for you. #

 

Condensed, with permission, from RE-
TAIL LUMBERMAN, Kansas City, Mis-
sourI'.

ready to bowl, then go to get a drink.
This will give your teammates time for
a much needed rest. 7. When you walk
over to get your ball, don’t walk in
behind the other fellow. This might
make him nervous. Walk in front of
him so he will know who it is. 8. When
your Opponent is shooting for a difficult
spare in a tight gamc, hc is naturally
tense and nervous. Be a good fcllow
and help him relax by letting out a
mighty yell just as he bowls. This will
relieve him of all tension and he will
undoubtedly make his Spare. #

 

..__‘

Reprinted from The Trefoil, Bait-elite
Company, Bound Brook, New Jersey.

283

PART 2

 

A discussion of their prospects in relation
to new program demands, continued
from our June issue.

A LOOK AHEAD . . .
AT LANDS AND FACILITIES

George Butler HAT ABOUT the buildings for which recreation administrators will have
w a primary responsibility? It goes without saying that as time goes on.
we will be building a great variety of structures dcsigned to serve
people using major recreation facilities, such as bathhouses, golf clubhouses,
camp structures, picnic shelters, and the like. As John B. Cabot of the National
Park Service said, in discussing park architecture at the reccnt Pokagon Parl|
Workshop, people who love and enjoy the structurcs built during the 1930’s ard
living “in the equivalent of an economic dream world.” Whether we like it or
not, we must turn to the machine and the mass produced rather than handcrafth
material, but this does not mean that we cannot have buildings that are both
suitable for their setting and functionally effective. Some municipalitics already
have them.

One important question relates to the types of multiple-use buildings that will
serve for the day-by-day, week-by-week, and year-round programs in the indi-
vidual neighborhoods and communities. Most of these will either be located on
separate playgrounds and playfields or they will be a part of the school pla‘l'l't!
Many communities will need both, but greater c00peration between school and
city authorities will be needed. We can expect a growing public demand for

23“ RECREATION

, of ltollowed-out concrete or fiberglass,
as a playground climbing
rtus, tent, and slide for sntall fry.

many additional facilities as recreation programs are ex-
panded to serve more people in a wider range of activities.
How are these demands to be met? Certainly in a variety
of ways; here are one or two.
School Facilities. Recreation departments will look in-
creasineg to school authorities to provide the majority
'of gyninasiums. with their related locker, shower and dress-
ling facilities. and auditoriums, with their equipment for
major drama and music productions. These features have a
igh construction and maintenance cost, defensible only
as full-time use can be assured. Their regular use by rec-
reation departments, outside of school hours, will justify
the construction of more ample facilities than would be
provided for school groups only, and the appropriation
pf municipal funds to help pay for them. It will doubtlcss
pnake the taxpayer more willing to support their inclusion
in new school buildings. Recreation departments will also
eontinne to nse suitable school facilities. such as cafeterias,
inusic rooms. darkrooms, domestic science, manual train-
Ing. and other units. Use of these facilities will be satis-

I This shallow pool in Los A ngeles
'was originally constructed in I 919.
Batltltouse buildings were torn
down and rebuilt in I 929, and the
pool remade into a shallow pool,
two-and-a-ltalf feet at tlte entls, five
I feet in center. Pool is 40'—by-50',
ltas two filter tanks, and ltas a

' capacity of I 80,000 gallons.

 

' EPTEMBER 1959

factory to the extent that these conditions are met: t1)
that recreation authorities share with school oilicials in de-
veloping building plans and (2) that written agreements
he adopted by school and recreation authorities, governing
the use of school facilities for community recreation, so as
to assure noninterference with the recreation program.

-\'eiglrborl100tl Centers. Recreation buildings of the club-
house type will be erected by recreation departments in
many neighborhomls, to provide programs for nonschool
groups during school hours and to supplement the use of
school facilities during the peak evening periods. These
buildings will have no gymnasium or auditorium but a
large multipurpose recreation room and several smaller
rooms, suitable for a variety of hobbies, group activities,
and informal relaxation. They will afford a meeting place
for preschool, teen-age, and golden-age groups; in some in-
stances one or more rooms may be set aside for their ex-
clusive use. However, recreation authorities should resist
the mounting pressures to grant organizations or groups
special privileges in these buildings. They will serve as

i,

a — a ..
hymns; *I n
J

,3! v.1
} I

This playground for tots in Oak-
land, California, sltows tlte trend in
new playground apparatus, using
construction forms, suclt as sewer
pipes, combined witlz sltips, planes,
locomotives, and firetrucks. How-
ever, the swing and slide never lose
appeal, show no signs of disappear-
ing or of becoming obsolete.

20—"!bW‘4M-Z -30>

 

 

genuine neighborhood centers from which the infiuence of
the recreation staff will radiate and to which the people will
turn in their leisure hours.

Specialized Facilities. As recreation programs are enriched
in scope, variety, and quality, the need for specialized build-
ings will arise. They are likely to succeed to the extent that

they serve an activity that has been widely promoted at the
neighborhood level, with a resulting demand for more spe-

eialized facilities, such as a community playhouse or nature
museum. For example, in Oakland, California, which long
sponsored a rich arts-and-crafts program, and which con-
ducted classes involving a variety of Special skills in an old
remodeled structure, a beautiful, fully equipped arts-and-
crafts building has been erected and is now in successful
operation. If recreation programs expand in- the years
ahead, we may expect a rising demand resulting in the con-
struction of buildings designed for advanced instruction
and participation in one or more related activities, such as
arts, crafts, drama, and music.

Variations. Owing to widely different conditions, tradi-
tions, and resources, there will be many variations in local
building patterns. Large multiple-unit buildings will be
erected in neighborhoods or communities where school
buildings have unsatisfactory facilities or where, because
of a large parochial school population or high-density, sub-
standard housing, school facilities are inadequate to meet
indoor recreation needs. A few cities, believing it is their
job to provide meeting rooms and indoor recreation facili-
ties for community organizations, such as church, labOr,
and civic groups, will erect large buildings designed pri-
marily for such use. Most recreation departments, how-
ever, will continue to consider it their primary responsibility
to provide buildings in which to conduct programs they
themselves have organized or to care for needs of affiliated
groups. In any case, recreation authorities will find it in-
creasingly difficult to secure funds for buildings unless they
can demonstrate the full utilization of existing indoor fa-
cilities and that these are inadequate to serve the demon-
strated needs of their program.

Outdoor Facilities. A forward look at outdoor facilities
cannot be reported adequately in a few words, but here
are a few comments on what appear to be significant de-
veIOpments.

C ERTAINLY we have not seen the last new idea in equip-

ment for playgrounds. Those of you who are new
in the field cannot
taken place in the concept of playground equipment during
the past few years. Supplementing or replacing the few
stereotyped, drab pieces of apparatus, we have seen in-

realize what a transformation has

stalled on our playgrounds a veritable menagerie of sculp-
tural forms, combinations of sewer pipe and cinder blocks,
ships, planes, and fire trucks, and complex structures like
those on the Dennis the Menace Playground in Monterey,
California (RECREATION, April, 1957), many of them dec-
orated in gay colors. Perhaps most significant are the clus-
ters of equipment with a marine, Wild West, or storybook
motif. In one city this is being installed so it can be moved
from one playground to another (RECREATION, April,

286

1959). Many new experiments are sure to be made in th:
next few years, but I predict that the swing and slide wil
retain their popularity and that sand and water play wil
continue to be children’s favorites. It is perhaps wishfu
thinking to believe that a competent team of experts in re
lated fields will have an opportunity to appraise the merit:
of these various equipment types.

GROWING INTEREST in environment is sure to create ad

ditional demand for facilities to enable peeple to study
understand, and enjoy nature. We can therefore expect a
marked increase in the number of camps of various types
nature trails, outdoor museums, and gardens. The import
anee of making all our recreation areas beautiful, as well
as useful, will be recognized so widely that bleak unattrac‘
tive areas such as we find in some communities will no
longer be tolerated.

We can look for major developments in both the neigh-
borhood playground and the large outlying park. The re-
cent tendency to make the playground a center of neighbor-
hood activity, by providing a greater variety of courts and
equipment serving all age groups, will continue, thus cre-
ating the demand for larger areas. Increasingly, especially
in thc congested sections of the larger cities, small, compar-
atively shallow, swimming pools will assure an opportunity
for everyone to learn to swim and enjoy water activities.
They will provide a growing clientele for the Olympic-style
pools, built to serve larger segments of the population.
Marked changes in pool construction methods and materials
seem probable.

ln outlying areas, rising attendance will result in un-
prcccdented demands for additional facilities for swimming,-
pienicking, camping, boating, winter sports, nature activi-
ties, to name only a few. At some of these areas, voluntary
and youth-serving agencies, among others, will increasingly
request exclusive use of the facilities, especially camps, for'
their groups during specified periods. Recreation authori-
ties must therefore adopt policies to assure a maximum
and equitable use of all facilities provided from tax funds.
A demand that recreation facilities be made self-sup]
porting, or at least produce more revenue than they do to-l
day, is almost certain to be intensified. This will call for
the adoption of sound policies relating to charges. Pro-'
vision of community swimming pools, playgrounds, and
other facilities, by individuals and families on a coopera-I
tive basis, alrcady affects the need for public facilities i
some localities and the possibility of securing public fun
to provide them. The tendency is likely to continue in som
sections of the country. Another trend that bears watchin
in order that the public interest be protected, is that of per
mitting private groups to construct facilities on publi
recreation areas, although we must be ready to accept, an
in some cases, to solicit private funds, in order to secur
needed facilities.

Admittedly, this paper leaves much to the imagination
but I hope that it may stimulate your thinking. #

Conference, Ogiebay Park, 1959. MR. BUTLER is directo
of research, National Recreation Association.

 

RECREATIO

 
  

Physical Education

The United States Department of Health, Education and
Welfare has issued a booklet, Ten Questions on Physical
ducation in Elementary Schools. Several topics relate to
recreation facilities and programs. Some are:
0 Fifty-four percent of the approximately 12,210 school
uildings provide excellent or adequate gymnasiums or play-
rooms; twenty-eight percent provide excellent or adequate
ressing-room and shower facilities. Less than one' percent
f these buildings provide swimming pools.

Approximately seven-eighths of the systems indicate that
hysical education facilities are used by the community in
ut-of-school hours during the school year.

Approximately two-thirds of the systems indicate that
hysical education facilities are used by the community
uring school vacation periods.

Cooperative Project

The Dallas Park_ and Recreation Board has begun a co-
perative survey and planning project with the senior de-
ign class at Texas Technical College. The class has been

igned to make a study of White Rock Park, to which
ey will devote the entire school year. The board is pay-
g for students’ travel and subsistence and is furnishing
aterial for modeling and mapping the area.

Financing Research Projects

The research committee of the Wisconsin Recreation
ociation has recommended that its functions be centered
the state university level and that the committee chair-
an be a full-time college recreation instructor. It has
rther recommended that the state recreation association
ke an effort to conduct one research project yearly, either
through a department
especially equipped to
do such a project, or
through the univers-
ity or a college within
the state. It was felt
that the research com-
mittee might best
serve the interests of
the state and the pro-
,ion by spending its time securing funds for at least one
ch project a year.

 

Urban Renewal and Open-Space Costs

In a policy background paper prepared for the 1959
wark Conference on the ACTION Program for The

PTI-ZMBER 1959

REVIEWS AND ABSTRACTS

American City, Edward C. Baufield of the University of
Chicago, proposed “Financial and Governmental Require-
ments for Housing and Urban Renewal in MetrOpolitan
Areas.” In considering the impact of total renewal on the
American economy, an analysis was made of its cost in a
metr0politan area of from 100,000-250,000 population, by
1970. In estimating costs, the city’s needs were based upon
standards currently recommended by experts. It was es-
timated that an area could eliminate slums and blight,
house its new population adequately, and refurbish its
downtown central-city district, by 1970, for a combined
public-private expenditure of $196,000,000 a year. Land-
use distribution would provide for slightly more than one-
ninth of the total area to be open space.

Of the estimated renewal costs, $41,232,000 were esti-
mated to be needed for open spaces, including land costs,
plus $21,768,000 for twelve-year maintenance, or a total
of $63,000,000 for that period. In addition, a total of

35,329,000 were estimated to be needed for community
centers and $3,975,000 for libraries.

1957 Recreation Expenditures

According to the Bureau of the Census, local park and
recreation expenditures from tax funds in 1957 amounted
to $3.43 per capita, or 2.1 percent of total tax expenditures.

Study on Liability Insurance

Dr. Betty van der Smissen, of the State University of
Iowa, has finished a study of liability insurance. Prelim-
inary findings indicate that even where state supreme courts
have been holding parks and recreation to be a government
function (not subject to liability), many cities are not will-
ing to rely upon these opinions and are carrying insurance.
A majority of the claims paid are in small amounts cover-
ing little more than medical expenses.

Of the eighty percent of the total claims classified by
types of situations, twenty-seven percent involved pools,
beaches and ponds; twenty-four percent, athletics and sports
(a large proportion. golf); sixteen percent, parks; seven-
and-a-half percent, playground apparatus; twenty-two per-
cent, miscellaneous, including childrcn’s zoos, horseback
riding, and skating; and three-and-a-balf percent, gyms and
indoor facilities.

The fact that insurance companies seem quite willing to
pay small claims, but try to fall back on the old sovereignty
laws as size of claims increases, raises the question whether,
by taking out insurance, park and recreation departments
may be jeopardizing their position. The final report should
he a valuable document.

287

MAKING MONEY—
AUTOMATICALLY

AUTOMATIC vend-

ing techniques
are being increas-
ingly utilized in the
vast and growing
field of public recre-
ation and parks,with
interesting and profitable results for all
concerned. They already have proved
their value in many other areas: in air-
ports, bus, and railroad stations; sports
arenas and bowling alleys; theaters and
outdoor drive-ins; luxurious clubs;
schools; vast industrial plants for em-
ployees’ lunches or round-thc-cloek
meals. New opportunities for service,
and for increased efliciency in operat-
ing recreation centers, are being opened
with the introduction of automatic
vending.

Techniques of mass feeding, like
nearly every other in our active and
growing society, are being radically
changed and improved by modern tech-
nological advances. Further, today’s
explosive population growth has cre-
ated an unprecedented demand for pro-
dnets and services. One of the most
dramatic changes is automatic vending.
Little more than candy-bar, peanut, or
chewing-gum dispensers not so long
ago, vending machines today not only
carry these staples, but have moved in-
to entirely new fields of distribution,
not only of food, but of other necessi-
ties and luxuries as well.

\Vatching the trend toward vending
in the recreation and park set-up, the
National Recreation Association re-

 

‘-

 

Tllis article was specially prepared for
RECREATION Magazine by MR. SHER-
MAN. chairman of the board, ABC
Vending Corporation.

288

cently conducted its own survey—a
controlled spot check—to investigate
the scope and success of automatic
vending in this important market.
Twenty communities, in sixteen states,
ranging in size from small towns to
large cities, received carefully worked
out questionnaires, designed to deter-
mine the extent to which automatic
vendilig was being utilized, profits real-
ized, consumer reaction, and problems
encountered. The first fifteen replies,
received from recreation superintend-
ents in twelve states, gave a picture of
this growing trend in refreshment serv-
ice, of interest to everyone concerned
with recreation and park area manage-
ment, and equally valuable to the auto-
matic vending industry.

two in-
stances. As might be expected, these
involved problems by no means con-
fined to automatic vending of refresh-
ments: they were loss and breakage of
bottles and damage to the machines.
Bottle loss is as familiar to the snack-
stand operator as to the automatic
vending industry. lt can be reduced
to a minimum in both cases by provid-
ing prominently placed, convenient re-
ceptacles for empty bottles, and re-
minding the customers, with well-
placed signs, that the receptacles have
been provided for their convenience.

Difficulties were listed in

Placing vending machines adjacent to
a manned counter, or near the super-
intendent’s, or other oflicial’s office or
desk, discourages carelessness leading
to breakage.

DAMAGE TO MACHINES is constantly

being reduced by the introduction
of new and improved equipment rug-
gedly and simply built. Careful place-

How would you like a “profit
without investment” .9

Benjamin Sherman :

ment, within buildings locked at night
or, if outdoors, ncar lights left on over-
night, also help curb machine damage.
Reminders to care for all kinds ofl
equipment, in talks, leaflets, and on
signs, should be extended to apply to
vending machines as well as the sports
equipment provided in recreation areas
and parks. These practices will help
reduce machine damage to a minimum.

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
   
   
  
   
   
 
  
  

So much for the negative aspects of
vending machines. Now, how about the
advantages? In the case of recreation
centers and parks, they are definite,
and, in many cases, unique, from the
standpoint of both administration and
user.

“A nice profit, with no investment.”
This attractive phrase appcarcd in th
survey summary. lt condenses the mos
interesting and constructive aspects 0
automatic tending in recreation ccn
ters. Recreation presents a “speci
situation.” as our Wall Street friend
would say, in which profits are avai
able for the most constructive purpos
imaginable: helping pay expenses an
frequently making possible expansio
of recreation programs.

Children
without leaving the play area to go t

can secure refreshmen
nearby stores, often across the stree
The center, working with the vendin
operators, can control the quality an
cleanliness of refreshments sold.
extra help is needed, and the vendor
trained servicemen take care of m
chine maintenance. The machines r
quire a minimum amount of space an
attention. Costs of operation, even
such play facilities as playfields a
public beaches, have been reduced
.

automatic vending.
Profits from the machines are an i

RECREATI

portant factor. Recreation budgets are
frequently limited; obviously more
funds make possible more and better
recreation facilities. In many centers,
profits from the machines, which usu-
ally cost the center nothing to operate,
pay for such things as trophies, rccords,
banquets, replacement of worn equip-
ment, and enhance the treasuries of
teenage, senior-citizen, and mothers’
clubs.

THE RANGE of merchandise served

automatically is large, and increas-
ing. as recreation management becomes
more aware of the advantages of mod-
crn vending techniques. Soft drinks,
candy, peanuts, pepcorn, ice cream,
cigarettes are the stand-bys. Hot choco-
late and fresh-brewed coffee, hot soups
and sandwiches are gaining increasing
acceptance, and machincs that dispense

    
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
   
  
  
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
    
 
  
  
  

Long-time National Recreation As-
. ociation staff member Jimmy Rogers
lied on May 28 in his native San Fran-
eisco at the age of seventy-five after a
hort illncss. He is survived by a sister
rs. William R. Kelly (504- Twenty-
'inth Avenue, San Francisco 21, Cali-
ornia). He had retired from the As-
: iation in 1949, having started as a
art-time field representative in 1911,
loing pio'neer work with Lebert \Veir
0 help communities set up year-round
ccreation programs. The implications
nd challenge inherent in a nationwide
ecrention movement became apparent
0 him during this early service. In
915 he came on staff as a full-time field
prcsentative serving the Midwestern
tates, and from then until his retire-
nt, covered almost the entire country
a one capacity or another for the As-
. i iation.

llis early recreation work started in
905. when he became director of the
‘ rst playground in San Francisco.
i rom 1906-08 he helped organize the
unicipal playground systems in Los
* ngeles and Oakland and, in 1911, he
unded and then directed, until 1915,
' famous San Francisco Recreation

I .eague, consisting of one hundred

PTEHBER 1959

such items as Ping-pong and tennis
balls, golf balls and tees, and so forth
are now available or will be on the
market soon.

In addition to the survey on auto-
matic vending discussed above, REC-
REATION Magazine made an even more
extensive investigation to dctcrmine
what and how much recreation execu-
tives are buying, what facilities are
being planned, the kind of equipment
most in demand, and the amounts
of money now being spent and to be
spent during the next two years on rec-
reation facilities and equipment. Ques-
tionnaires'were sent to fourteen hun-
dred subscribers—all recreation and
park executives. A forty-four-percent
return with the requested detailed facts
and figures gives a dramatic and en-
couraging picture of this market, and
of the alert interest of its management.

 

 

community organizations. The league
was responsible for many community-
wide recreation developments in cen-
tral California.

Mr. Roger’s training and teaching
abilities were fully utilized during both
world wars, when he was dcsignated
to show communities how to mobilize
their recreation resources to fulfill the
off-duty needs of servicemen and, in
World War ll, those of the war workers
as well.

Since he was such a vigorous, vital
person, it was only natural that he be
concerned with physical education. He
served as director of the NRA’s Na-
tional Physical Education Service from
1926 to 1939, helping states secure leg-
islation, budgets, and trained person-
nel for the direction of statewide phys-
ical education programs in the public
schools. Ile was also instrumental in
organizing the Society of State Direc-
tors of Health and Physical Education.

Mr. Rogers was not only a recreation
and physical education specialist but
social worker, teacher, and writer as
well, having taught high school for six
years in California and having worked
in various settlement houses and boys
cluhs. .limmy conducted many training

( See Itacam'rtox, January and F elm:-
ary, 1959.)

Nearly five hundred recreation ex-
ecutives reported that they spent
$51,917,607 for construction, lighting,
maintenance, motor equipment, swim-
ming pools, playgrounds, and special
equipment. Over three hundred stated
that their budgets are being increased
yearly, and 499 listed their plans to buy
or build equipment and facilities, rang-
ing from athletic fields, hoat docks, and
bowling alleys to landscaping, televi-
sion sets, and lighting equipment.

This is big business, and to those of
us—the sUppliers, the publishers, the
executives in direct charge of this
ground swell of public interest in or-
ganizcd recreation—there is deep sat-
isfaction in recognizing our part in
contributing to the increased well-be-
ing of our country and its people. #-

James Edward Rogers

courses for the NRA, in addition to
those for colleges and universities. His
many writings include two books, nu-
merous recreation surveys and related
st‘tdies, and several hundred magazine
articles.

He was connected with many organ-
izations, among them the American As-
sociation for Health, Physical Educa-
tion, and Recreation; the Commission
on the Enrichment of Adult Life of the
National Education Association—for
ten years as secretary—and for twelve
years as president and secretary of
NEA’s Department of Health and Phys-
ical Education: member of the editorial
board of the Scholastic Coach: and a
member-at-large of the U.S. Volleyball
Association.

No one person can be said to charac-
terize a movement. but James Edward
Rogers certainly typified the early, zeal-
ous recreation barnstormer. Recrea-
tion was a cause in which he believed
wholeheartedly, unflaggingly, constant-
ly.

Ilis spirit and enthusiasm were so
contagious that, as Charles Reed, di-
rector of the Association's field depart-
ment, has said of him, “lle never met a
stranger." And he never will. .1:

289

NOTES

for the

ADMINISTRATOR

Legislative Decisions

The Excise Tax Technical Changes Act of 1958 (HR.
7125) signed by the President on September 2, 1958, in-
cludes a section that will exempt from the ten-percent admis-
sions tax amounts paid for admission to privately operated
swimming pools, bathing beaches, skating rinks, and other
places providing facilities for physical exercise (other than
dancing).

Governor Robert B. Meyner of New Jersey recently signed
Assembly Bill No. 448, authorizing the board of chosen
freeholders of any county in which a park commission shall
not have been established to acquire land for use as a public
golf course and other recreation facilities, and to improve,
maintain, and operate the same.

Policy Statement

The city commission of Dania, Florida, has approved a
set of policies (effective February, 1958) for the use of rec-
reation facilities adopted by the local recreation depart-
meal. This defines the organized groups who may use the
department’s limited recreation facilities and the purpose
for which they may be used. The policy statement covers
such items as permits, registrations, suspensions, eligibility
for use, hearings, and reports. Specific policies cover such
facilities as ball diamonds, recreation buildings, shuflle-
board courts, and tennis courts.

Among the general policies adopted are:

“All permission for the use of the municipal facilities will be
restricted to rcsponsible and rccognizcd organizations within the
City of Dania under the provisions outlined in this policy.

“Applicants must satisfy thc issuing ofiicer of the recreation dc-
partnlenl that, either they are pcrsonally responsible, or that they
represent! responsible local organizations; and that they will guaran-
tce orderly behavior and will underwrite any damage due to their
Use of the facility. When permission is granted, the recipient of same
will automatically assume liability, in regard to any personal or prop-
erty damage arising out of the activities of the recipient and/or
organization.

"Cancellations may be initiated by either party twenty-four hours
prior to scheduled use, without liability. The dcpartment will give
notice as far in advance as possible, but reserves the right to make
later cancellations in cases of emergency.

“Any activity in which the department's facilities are utilized will
he conducted according to law, and will conform to the oral stand-
ards of the department. No meetings or entertainment will bc held
for the purpose of advancing any doctrine or theory subversive to
the United States. Alcoholic beverages will not be served in or on
any municipal facilities operated by the recreation department.“

 

MR. BUTLER is director of research, National Recreation
Association.

290

 

George Butler

Commandments for Municipal Managers

A set of tips for municipal managers, delivered at a con-
ferencc of the Minnesota Municipal League by Bernard
Casserly, suburban reporter for the Minneapolis Star, is
so pertinent to recreation executives it deserves to be re-
printed here:

Thou shalt obtain managerial help. Get a good assistant,
a trainee to do surveys, additional chores, and publicity.
Thou shalt not have any side jobs. (This implies good be-
ginning salaries.) Work in real estate and insurance and
planning consultancy can lead to embarrassing conflicts of
interest for the manager.

Thou shalt always be available. Have your calls come to
the police department or village hall after hours, so you can
get a full night’s sleep; but never get out of touch with the
people, and always be available to the press.

Thou shalt always put it on the record.

Thou shouldst let a committee field the
hot ones. This lets tempers cool. But
don't use committees as a dilatory

I

*W0
‘1 115-1".
‘u

    

tactic.

Thou shalt keep thy nose out of politics.
No candidate picking by the manager.
This is not to say your judgment should
not be asked and given. I would have
respect for the politician.

Thou shall keep the public posted.
Thou shalt not only be good—thou must also look good. In
business, it is accepted to go down to the purchasing agent
to buy something for personal use; this is not a good prac-
tice in government. And as to Christmas gifts and parties,I
you must use good judgment. Gifts of substantial value
should be returned.

Thou shalt know when to quit. Some of my best friends are
managers who didn’t look for another job early enough.——1

Reprinted, with permission, from Minnesota Municipalities,

March, 1959.

Trends in Size of Recreation Buildings

In order to secure information on trends in recreation
buildings, the National Recreation Association sent a brief
questionnaire to its thirteen district representatives in the
spring of 1959. Here is a brief summary of replies.

The first question concerned a reported trend on the.

part of cities to erect major recreation buildings, each in-.
tended to serve a number of communities within the city.|
Four district representatives reported such a trend in their

RECREATIONI

districts; four reported no such trend; one found relatively
few such buildings had been erected; and another that the
tendcncy to erect large buildings was noted primarily in
small towns.

llas increased planning and use of school buildings for
community recreation influenced the erection of recreation
buildings? Eight reported such influence: the only two
exceptions were from southern districts. One thought the
fact that school buildings are used for recreation in neigh-
borhoods might account for the erection of major recrea-
tion buildings serving larger arcas. Another felt that school
buildings could never replace recreation buildings. Other
replies were: “Where school buildings are built for com-
ntunity use there is less emphasis on separate recreation
buildings.” “Planning and use of school buildings have
resulted in building fewer major recreation centers."
“School-centered programs reduce pressure for separate
new rccreation structures, which, when built, are usually
in connection with other recreation facilities.”

To the question: “Have the major recreation buildings,
built in your cities in recent ycars, bcen designed primarily
to house programs and serve groups organized and spon-
sored by the recreation department?" all answered yes.

The final question was: “To what extent are othcr or-
ganized groups, such as churches, civic, and service clubs,
within the radius of
service of these large
recreation buildings,
encouraged to mect in
the buildings and uti-
lize their facilities?"
All representatives re-
ported that limited
use is made of large
recreation buildings by other groups. It is apparent that
such use, in most cases, is secondary to department-spon-
sored programs. Tim indicated that increasing use of build-
ings by such groups was presenting a major problem.

 

 

   

1959 CONGRESS PROGRAM DIGEST

MONDAY
9:00 A.M.

Official Opening of exhibits

9:00-10:30 A.M.

ARS Section Buslnness
Meetings

1 1:00 A.M.-
12:15 P.M.

General Session: Keynote
Speech

2:00-5:30 P.M.

Workshops:
Administrative Problems
of Executives
Making Publications
Effecth
Problems of Supervisors
Rhythms for Elementary-

Alf BOYS & Girls

2:00-3:30 P.M.

Effective Church Recreation

Recreation for Older Peooie
National Outdoor Recreation
Resources Review Act—

Implementation
industrial Rec. 3. Profes-
sional Societies
Private Volunteer Agencies
Leadership for lll &

Handicapped

4:00-5:30 P.M.
Sperts in Church Recreation

Expanding Rec. Using
Volunteers
Careers in Rec. for in &

Handicapped
3:30 P.M.
General Session

l0:00-l :00 A.M.

Get-Acquainted Party Given
by Exhibitors

 

Minar changes in this schedule may appear in the pragram

L .PTEMBER 1959

TUESDAY

9:30 A.M.-
5:30 P.M.

WorkshOp & Demonstration
of Arts s. Crafts
Preview of Available l-‘IIms

 

 

9:30-i 1:15 A.M.

You Question the Experts

Human Relations: You 8.
Your Job

Sports & Athletics In Rec.
Program

Rec. Agencies & the Handl-
Capped

2:00-5:30 P.M.

Workshop: Well-Rounded
Music Program

2:00-3:30 KM.

Accreditation of Rec.
Curriculum

Planning 8. Operation of
Public Marinas

international Recreation

Administering Small Rec.
Departments

New Developments In County
at District Programs

Using Special Events

industrial Rec. in the
Community

StuRdent Meeting: Careers In

ec.

Use of Self With ill 8‘

Handicapped

4:00-5:30 P.M.
ARS Business Meeting

7:30 P.M.
ARS Banquet

3:30 P.M.

Special Theater-In-the.
Round Performance:
The Solid Gold Cadillac

WEDNESDAY
moo-10:30 A.M.

Better Programs for Girls

Military Rec.

Professional Code of Ethics

Factors In Planning Shrim-
ming Pools

Report on Rec. Research

Role of Volunteers in PR

NoncOnfor-mists' Challenge to
Rural Leaders

How Far Should Comnninl-
ties Go in Develtiplng Rec.
Areas?

Rec. Counseling for iii &
Handicapped

 

 

ii:00 A.M.-
12:15 P.M.

General Session: “The Role

of Recreation In an Afflu-
ent Society"

2:00-3:30 P.M.

Planning 8: SuppOrt of
MmuqRu.

Making Summer Playground
rrlograms More Meaning-
u

Community Rec. Survey

Artificial ice Rinks

Economies in Maintenance
Operations

Swao Shep on Program
ideas

How to Use MU Youth
Program

Rec. in Rural Community

Program ideas for Disturbed

THURSDAY

9:30-l l :30 A.M.

Professional Growth Through
On-the-Job Training

Land Competition & Recre-
atlon

How Organized Rec. Can Help
Prevent Delinquency

Problems Facing Teen-age
Leaders

2:00-5:30 P.M.

Workshops:
Drama—The Creative
Approach
Planning Sites for School-
Communlty Use
How Board Members Can
Do a Better Job

2:00-3t30 P.M.

Techniques for Hosting
Tournaments

ls College Curriculum Pre-
paring for Job Realities?

Trends in Voluntary Pro-
fessional Registration

Planning Your PR Program

How to Evaluate Rec. Pro.
gram

Management Technranes for
Rec. for iii & Ha icapped

-——-—-c- '-

*d':00-5:30 PM.

How to Use Sampling Meth-
ods and Questionnaires

Operating Public Golf
Courses

Rec. and Total Fitness

Wili’derness Rec. Areas and

se
Basic Principles of Super-

vision
Principles a. Policies for

 

 

FRIDAY
9:00-i 0:30 A.M.

Recruiting for Rec.

Promoting Use of Conununlty
Rec. Resources

Standards for Park and Rec.
AuthOrIties

Principles and Applications
of Performance Budget

Program ideas for institu-
tionalized Aoed

 

l l :00 A.M.-
l2:l5 P.M.

General Session: “is Recre-

ati0n Doing its Job?“ a
symposium

l :45 P.M.

Tour of Chicago Facilities

Tour of Wilson Sporting
Goods Company at River
Grove

(Opportunities will be given
during the week far spot
tours of recreation facili-
ties of special interest.)

2:00-3:30 P.M.

Financing Programs for
Aged in institutions

& Retarded YOch School Recreation

Report of Recent Graduates

Working with ill a. Handl-

capped

4:00-5:30 P.M.
4:00 PM. 7:30 P.M. __ ..
———————~~ - Med. Aspects of Rec. for the
Open Congress Banquet and Dance Aged

yau will receive at lhe Congress.

291

CONSULTATION WWW 6W.____

PLANNING
and

DESIGN . . .

0111]] Your
Recreation Facilities

0 Ice Skating Rinks
0 Swimming Pools

0 Field Houses

0 Tennis Courts

Creative deveIOpment of entire
recreation areas, backed up by years of
experience (84 swimming pools, rinks,
and other facilities.)

PETER CARVER ASSOCIATES

70 East 45th Street
New York 17, New York

 

Stop wasting time recording inventory casts,
handing out balls and paying top prices for low

quality balls. Install this ottroctive, cost-cutting
TFT Table Tennis Ball Meter NOWI

leosed FREE to responsible agencies an $10.00
deposit subiect to refund. Troublefree operation
assured—return machine for FREE repair. Attrac-
tive hard wood and metal cabinet—7V: x 8% x 15
inches high. Easy to install. Holds 120 balls—
dispenses each for 10¢. Choice of 3 grades of
top quality balls. Use profit to maintain and re-
place paddles, nets, etc. No risk guarantee. Send
for free folder: “Stop Wasting Their Time."

1'. f. TWARDZIK 8. (0.,

  

mcoarou'm

SHENANDOAH, PENNA.

 

202

11:.1'; .

+ The demonstration project on recre-
ation in nursing homes in New York
City has swamped the National Recre-
ation Association with requests from
individual, government, and voluntary
agencies; state and local nursing
homes; and welfare departments, for
consultation. This is really proof that
one demonstration project, highly pub-
licized, can stimulate the planning and
thinking of a group previously adverse
to recreation, such as nursing-home
owners.

Mary Jane Cassidy, nursing home
consultant of the NRA Consulting Serv-
ice on Recreation for the III and Handi-
capped, has been asked to develop a
coordinated project for twenty-two
Philadelphia nursing homes, housing
over one thousand patients. This will
probably require a staff of three full-
time, and one part-time, workers and
many volunteers and students inter-
ested in acquiring field experience. In
Albany, New York, the Consulting
Service set up a demonstration project
in a welfare home, to be used by the
state as a model for all welfare homes.
The New Jersey Nursing Home Asso-
ciation has engaged NRA to set up a
demonstration project, with one worker
and volunteers, to carry out the activi-
ties in three of its better homes. The
NJ. association plans to use this dem-
onstration as an example of what the
other 122 homes can do with recreation.

The State of Connecticut leads the
way in incorporating recreation into
its nursing homes on the strength of
NRA’s pilot project in Hartford. Doro-
thy Ciulliano, project director, is con-.
stantly setting up new programs in
nursing homes throughout the state.

'i‘ Dr. Carol Lucas, recreation consult-
ant of the Federation of Protestant Wel-
fare Agencies, toured six states for the
NRA Consulting Service, sponsored by
the Lutheran Council for Hospitals and
Homes. She conducted demonstrations
and workshops in six different western
mountain areas, over a one-month per-
iod. (This was a novel way of spend-
ing her vacation.)

’i‘ Frances Arje, associate editor of
RN, nursing publication, has joined the
Consulting Service as a full-time edi-
torial specialist. Alice Burkhardt, for-
merly recreation director of the Nurses
Residence, at Bellevue Hospital, New

MRS. HILL is director of the NRA Con-
suiting Service on Recreation for the Hi

and Handicapped.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

Beatrice H. Hill

York City, will join the field depart-
ment of the Consulting Service on No-
vember 1.

'i' In May, in Chicago, the joint com-
mittee to study paramedical areas in
relation to medicine, of the American
Medical Association, invited represent-
atives of eleven paramedical disciplines
to discuss medical e0neerns. As rep-
resentative of the National Recreation
Association, I invited Dr. Martin Mey-
er, coordinator of activity therapy of
the Indiana Division of Mental Health,
to join me at this meeting. Major dis-
eussion centered on licensing and reg-
istration for paramedical personnel.
Dr. Meyer and I stated that the Na-
tional Recreation Association believes
in the principle as it applies to the rec-
reation profession as a whole and also
agrees with the voluntary registration
principle as set forth by the Council
for the Advancement of Hospital Ree-
reation. We did not feel this was the
time to discuss steps for government
licensing. Dr. Meyer pointed out that
the recreation profession has been very
interested in establishing a formal lia-
ison with the AMA. We also pointed
out that recreation specialists in hos-
pitals wish medical guidance, which,
unfortunately, is not always available.
The AMA will hold future conferences
on this subject and wishes to encourage
voluntary registration and liaison with
our people.

'i‘ The recreation staff at the San Fer-
nando Veterans Administration Hospi-
tal in California was honored recently
when Dr. David Salkin, director of pro-
fessional services, presented a superior
performance award to the hospital ree-
reation team. Members of that team
are Nick Catamas, chief; Charles
Grimes, radio and television director;
David McMillan, recreation leader; and
Virgie Coeke, recreation leader. The
superior performance award is one of
the highest honors that can be bestowed
upon a federal employee.

4‘ The Consulting Service is working
closely with the Office of Vocational Re-
hahilitation to set up a demonstration
project on recreation for the home-
bound chronically ill.

4* Recommended: a study report, Psy-
chiatric Occupational Therapy, pre-
pared by the American Occupational
Therapy Association, a must for all.

+ See you at the National Recreation
Congress!

RECREATION

00

The American Film Festival of 16mm
nontheatrical films, held in New York
City last spring, attracted 250 entries
and nationwide attendance, as well as
registrants from Canada and India.
While the festival offered a recreation
category, this was devoted to sports
films plus one film on the dance. Other
films of interest to recreation leaders
were scattered throughout the other eat-
cgories.

The following festival winners should
be of particular interest to recreation
peeple. (The categories in which they
were entered are given in parenthesis.)
The Educational Film Library Associa-
tion, festival sponsor, suggests that
these may be available free or at nom-
inal cost from your state university’s
film archives, local library film center,
state departments of conservation, com-
merce, health, and other often over-
looked local agencies. If enough are
available in this fashion you might put
on your own festival at little or no cost.

Watershed W ild/ire (agriculture,
conservation, and natural resources),
produced by the US. Department of
Agriculture, not only tells the story of
forest fire but the drastic measures
needed thereafter.

Charting a Course (citizenship and
government), entered by the Citizen
Charter Committee of St. Louis, shows
the blight of a city desperately needing
charter reform and the ways of going
about getting a new charter.

Valley of Light (geography and trav-
el), produced by the Ford Motor Com-
pany, is devoted to Yosemite National
Park. This film is also representing the
US. in film festivals abroad.

The Art of Gift Wrapping (homemak«
ing), produced by the Hallmark Card
Company, gives tips on this popular sub-
ject, often a part of holiday programs or
special craft classes in recreation de-
partments.

[litter Welcome (mental health and
human relations), New York Mental
Health Board entry, should stimulate
thought and prove a springboard for
discussion on mental illness.

A Way of Life (nature and wildlife),
produced by the Missouri Conservation
Commission, could have won in a num-
ber of categories, as could some of the
other winners, proving the dilliculty of
pigeon-holing subject matter. Excellent

for your nature and camping groups.

SEPTEMBER 1959

The Melbourne Olympic Cam es (rec-
reation, sports, and physical education) ,
entered by the Coca-Cola Company,
covers the famed athletic spectacle.

A Dancer’s World (dramatic arts),
entrant of the Rembrandt Film Library,
will interest participator and spectator
alike.

The Legend of the Raven and Toccata
[or Toy Trains (stories, legends and
films for children) show how imagin-
ative storytelling can be.

The l’erhins Story (institutional pub-
lic relations for nonprofit organiza-
tions) relates the story of the Perkins
School for the Blind, Watertown, Mass-
achusetts.

Notewortlly

o A delightful, novel record for chil-
dren, .lirn Copp Tales, is the first pro-
duction of two California bachelors, Jim
Copp and Ed Brown. Copp was writer,
narrator, and sound originator, utiliz-
ing a multiple recording technique, en-
abling him to be a seventeen-voice chil-
dren’s singing class, and produce the

Free to WRITERS

seeking a book publisher

Two fact-tilled. Illustrated brochure! tell how
' to publish your book. get. 40% royalties, na-

tional advertising. publicity and promotion.

Free editorial appraisal. Write Dept. R-9

noises in a barnyard parade. Brown
did everything else.

The nine song vignettes appeal to

children on their level but never talk
down to them. My seven-year-old has
listened to this record at least twenty-
five times and never tires of it. This
would be a wonderful record for a rec-
reation department to use as a jumping-
oll point for creative dramaties and
simple improvisations. (Available from
Playhouse Records, 60 Fremont PL, Los
Angeles 5. $5.95.) —J.W.
e Pan-American World Airways has a
new listing of 16mm sound films in its
Wings Over the World series. These
films, all made since the war, may be
booked by any civic, church, educa-
tional, or social group through oflicial
distrihutors, for small service fees plus
transportation cost.

The series includes such titles as
Wings to Mexico a n (1 Guatemala,
Alaska, Bermuda, Haiti, Hawaii, Ger-
many, Finland, and many others. Young
scientists will enjoy Sentinel in the Sky,
a l31f3-minute film on air-borne radar.
Youngsters will also enjoy From Little
Wings, a 13-minute film of a national
model airplane contest, and a day in the
life of a boy entered in it. For a listing
of films and distributors, write for a
free c0py of the pamphlet Wings Over
the World, availahle from Pan-Ameri-
can World Airways, 28-19 Bridge l’laza
North, Long Island City 1, New York.

Eliminate Gate-Crashers

"Invisible" HAND STAMPING INKS
seen only under BLACKLIGHT Lamps

The modern RE-ADMISSION system. Foolproof 0 low-
cost 0 Simple 0 For loin, donce-holla, beoehes, etc.

Complete Kits from $29.
Send for Free Cotolog.

Exposition Press / 386 41h Av... N.Y. 16 | “WHITE (0. Dept. a, 75 w. 451:. SL, N.Y.C. 36

0 a1 1 f0 I1 e Announces . ..


‘W“ M n

K.)

factory guarantee.

a e in
v

Q

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

This warranty shall talre egcct January l, 1959. There/ore, any (
units [or which warranty cards have been returned to us since that l
date will be honored on the above basis. The new warranty is valid 
provided the warranty card is dated after January I, 1959.

cal 1 1'0 11 e CORPORATION Dept. II-J

Elma-£2211: @uarantee 
on STROBESELECTOR MOTOR

Due to the unexcelled performance of the Cali/one STROBE- (
SELECTOR MOTOR used in all Cali/one l'ariablc speed phono- .r
graphs ( except the Model 12le V), we are announcing the extension (
o/ the present material guarantee from the conventional 90-day to
a TWO YEAR guarantee on this motor.

At the same time, all other parts on all Cali/ones are now factory
guaranteed [or a period 0/ ONE YEA R, except for Tubes. Cartridges
and Needles. These latter items will continue to have the 90-day

(

5

X

4

1020 N. La Brea Ave. - Hollywood 38. Calli. (\

293

 

NEWS .

F or further information regarding
any of these products, write directly
to the manufacturer. Please mention
that you saw it in RECREATION.

Jean Waeht-el

 

0 Congratulations to Hillerich & Bradsby on their 75th an-
niversary! Three-quarters of a century ago, the fourteen-
year-old son of German-born Frederich Hillerich had
stopped to watch a baseball game. In that game, Pete “The
Old Gladiator” Browning broke his bat, and the young man
offered to fix it for him. And thus the company, now famous
for turning out the Louisville Slugger bats, was launched.

0 The Black Light Eastern Corporation has developed its
Blak-Ray Readmission Control system to eliminate gate-
crashing and readmission problems at recreation-sponsored
dances and special functions;
county and state fairs; swim-
ming pools; and sports events—
among the many to which this sys-
tcm could be applied. The control
kit contains invisible fluorescent
ink, which, when stamped on the
patron’s hand, will glow onlv un-

der the Blak-Ray lamp. The ink

is nontoxic. cannot be transferred,

 

and can be wasth off. Write for details to the company
at 201-04 Northern Boulevard, Bayside 61, New York.

0 The Mars-Omniehrom is a universal marking pencil that
will write, with a sharp point, on glass, photographs. metals,
plastics, ceramics, rubber, china, cardboard, leather, or any
other material. It has the properties of a grease pencil with-
out its bulkiness, necessity of being peeled, and smudginess.
The Mars-Omnichrom, which comes in seven colors, can he
sharpened to a line point in a standard pencil sharpener,
and markings may be removed with either a damp cloth or
regular pencil eraser. \Vood encased, these leads will not
melt, thus are ideal for use 011 warm materials, are totally
unaffected by climatic conditions and can be stored any-
where. For complete information, write D. C. Urmston, J.

S. Staedtler, Inc., 769 Di Carolis Court, Haekcnsaek, N. J.

0 Jayfro’s new portable aluminum basketball standard can
be used in indoor or outdoor pools or waterfront areas, is
adjustable to variations in water depths. The standard is
completely waterproof, rubber-
mounted, comes with an oili-
eial basketball goal and heavy-
duty nylon net. To assure
maximum safety and eliminate
permanent installation fea-
tures, the unit is balanced with
a counteracting rear extension
weight. For complete informa-
tion, write J ayfro Athletic Supply Company, P.O. Box
1065, New London, Connecticut.

294

 

o Pease Domes were designed specifically to satisfy the
ever-widening demand for low-cost, sturdy, easily assembled
accessory buildings, always a reereation—and-parks depart-
ment headache. Composed entirely of thirty-eight factory-
assembled “space frames,” covered with rugged plastic-
faced exterior-grade plywood, these strong, durable weather-
proof buildings can be bolted through base plates to a con-
crete slab or be set and bolted to piers where a dirt floor is
wanted. One of their many advantages is the absence of in-
ternal supports; others are simplicity and speed of erection,
low cost, and all-usuable space. Despite their durability,
they can be disassembled and relocated. The interiors of
these domes are treated in the same way you would handle
any other building’s. The first model offers 485 square feet
of door space, a 26-foot diameter, and a center height of 13
feet. Pease Domes can be used for beach houses, shelters,
bathhouses, boathouses, garden-tool storage, clubhouses,
ranger stations, gatehouscs, maintenance shops, resort
cabins, and so on, depending on your imagination and

 

needs. The two photographs show a dome in the process of
construction and one completed. For full details on as-
sembly, shipping, finishing, and so on, write Pe‘ase wood-
work Company, 900 Forest Avenue, Hamilton, Ohio.

0 The bugbear of athlete’s foot haunts all swimming pro-
grams and new ways to prevent it are always being sought.
Onox has developed a new
method, consisting of a foot-
sprayer containing a well-
known skin-toughening solu-
tion. \Vhen the swimmer steps
on the treadles, four jets spray
feet and toes thoroughly. The
Onox foot sprayer is made of
Fiberglas and a high-density polyethylene with a nonskid
rubber base, holds a gallon of solution, enough for more
than three thousand treatments. Write Onox, Ine., Dept.

D3, 121 Second Street, San Francisco 5, California.

 

RECREATION

morx or ADVERTISERS '

Page .

All Metal Tennis Table Company  .. 259

American Handicraits Company
Inside Back Cover

American Playground Device Company

Inslde Front Cover SCORE-INDICATOR BOARD

Anderson Ceramics Company   295 32:32“:- emizcangxuhiw'mnrgmz
Caliione COTDOTBTIOTI -    } Florida-:3: 0;; ot intro" :20} burst-lips; sink:
Castello Fencing Equipment 260 5.7:: :n 50- xgo'varmsa £33..'.'..;.:.:.'......
Chicago Roller Skate Company Back Cover '61::[fiiggzioinggiiginliplNJ.“ mum" 0""
Exposition Press WHHWW “Eh  Satisfaction Guaranteed

The leible Company . 296

Gold Medal Products Company 260

Harper and Brothers  297

Il'illerich and Bradsby Company 253 BASKETBALL
James Spencer and Company H 259

Jayiro Athletic Supply Company 295 “El CHM"

II‘ETS

3 Years Guaranteel
outdoors or Indoors

«tho mturtn lav ro'l custom built

thLON BASKETIAH NETS A AALL CARRIERS
VALUMINUM MUITI-I’UIPOSE STANDARDS
VTETHERIAH POLES I. PADDLE SETS

Mitchell Steven Hobbycrait Company _.,-.__ 256 may:ugtgzgmeiggxgl’tttz

Monroe Company ._..______.._..__._____-, 29S - Send for Free Catalog -

- - JAYFRO ATHLETIC SUPPLY co.
“alma' Slum“  ~ 297 Dept. a. Box 1065. new LONDON, CONN.

The MacGregor Company m. Inside Back Cover
Mason Candies _. “ms... 297
McGraw-Hill Book Company

 

Inside Front Cover

 

National Trophy Sales ,_.. Inside Back Cover

Peter Carver Assoclales __ _____,_____,___  We coter ta recreotlan departments
. In all ceramic su lies.

The Program Alds c°mpany - 295 WRI‘I’E FOR FREE caiitoaus

SpIn-a-Tesl Company _ ,  Duncan and Reward calor charts

Stroblite Company  293 I I I

Anderson Ceramics Company

Inside Front Cover r. 0. Box 759. m Greenville Street
 Anderson. South Carolina

Superior Industries .
T. F. Twardzik and Company

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

Program Aids

NOTHING—But nothing builds better Pro-
grams and more participation than Pro-
gram Aids. They are vgidely endorsed and
hailed as unique ond unporolleied or-
gonizotion and promotion tools.

0 ERASO' Posters In Charts

0 SPOT AWARDS' Trophies It Cups

0 PLAYMAS‘I’ER' Coaching Alds

O SCORE-KING' Mognetlc Scoreboard

O RECORD-MASTER"‘Hali~el-Foms"Dlsplays
0 Executive Scheduling Kits

«nous anon. WRITE FOR CATALOG TO —

THE PROGRAM AIDS 00., INC.

Dept. R. 550 5th Ave-. N Y- 36. N. Y,

Make your Congress reservations

now! Time is getting short.

 

 

U.S. Rubber Reclaiming Company . .. _. 258
Voit -s-.. -H.-_.S-_..._..-_..______,_,. 296
VogeI-Peterson Company _____________ _ 296 RATES: Words in regular type $.15 each

   
   
            
     
   
   

  

FOL DIN G
BANQUET

TABLES

   

airect Factory
Price. ‘- Closeouts“
To Churchee. Ctube.
Lodgce. Schoole
an! All Greenin-
tione.

Over 50,000 in-
stitutions own
and use modem

AND
3| I" III
“3:111;th Twirl!!! MONROE TRUCKS

Write for the new ""
Sltlxlttll-i 5131‘
AXX-IS'EIIRA ti Y
I‘ATALHG at
Folding Tables.
Folding Chairs. -
Trucks. Movable

I‘srtttions. Fold-
tnr Ilia-rs. etc.
Get our s Jurist prices.
quantity tiscoants. also terms.

Monro: Co.. III Church St... Colfax. Iowa

 
   
  
  

    
     
       
       
         
   
   
 

Start-smear: 1959

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING

Words in boldtace type $.25 each
Minimum ad accepted  $3.00

DEADLINES: Copy must be received by
the mm of the month preceding date of
the Issue in which ad is desired.

COPY: Type—or clearly print—your message and the address to which you wish
replies sent. Underline any words you want to appear in boldface type.

Send copy with rcmitran cc to:
RECREATtON Classitictl Advcrtising. 8 Wcst Eighth Street. New York II. New York.

HELP WANTED

Supervisor of Recrea-
tion. Salary $100475. Ma-
jor in P.E. or recreation or
five years' minimum ex-
perience. Apply Civil Serv-
icc Commission. City Hall,
Reno, Nevada.

Recreation Therapists
[or California Statc llospi-
tale. Opportunity to plan
and conduct individual pa-
tient rccrcation as well as
special group activities;
modern equipment and
facilities available. Posi-
tions open to college gradu-
ates with major in recrea-

tion or recreation therapy.
which included supervised
fich work. No expericncc
required. Starting salary
$415.00; promotional op-
portunities; lihcral em-
ployee benefits. Write State
Personnel Board. 801 Capi-
tol Avenue, Sacramento.

Caliiortlia.

 

Registered hospital rccrc-
ation leaders or aides for
125-bcd psychiatric hospi-
tal. Sala open. Write:
.‘llcrcywoor Sanitarium.

Box 65. Ann Arbor. Michi-
gan.

PUBLICATION
Ghost Towns. Western
Lore, Historical Guide
to the Elm-en Southern
California Counties.
This exciting new publica-
tion reveals hundreds of at-
tractions with locations.
history. prices, hours. etc.
Ghost towns. lost mines
and treasures. historical
sites and landmarks. west-
crn and Indian nlusculns.
adnbcs. missions. Request
publication li-I2. Enclose
$2.00 cash. check. moncy

ordcr. Arrow Research In-
stitute. Box 25583. Lott An-
gclca 25. California.

The publisher assumes no responsibility for services or items adrcriiled Acre.

When writing to our advcrtiscrs please mention RECREATtON.

M

295

 

i'co-sa-he'dron a perfectly symmetrical
polyhedron possessing the ultimate number of
poles that can be placed on a sphere.

Right now. ..a battery of fully-automated, electronically-
controlled, high precision machines are placing a
predetermined number of perfect icosahedron patterns to form
the carcass of every new Voit ball.

Combining the first manufacturing method to utilize
fundamental mathematics...a new, longest-wearing
composition cover...and a continuous testing program to

prove the results——Voit has produced the strongest, most
perfectly balanced balls ever built.

It's an amazing story. Ask your Voit sales representative
for complete, specific details.

®

 

lcosahedron construction
means:

ale Maximum carcass life

alt Maximum cover wear

alt Complete structural
uniformity

ale Official performance
forthe life of the ball

 

 

Remodeling or
building a new

, BATH HOUSE?

Don't make old-fashioned bag or

basket checking a part of your

plans. Modern self-service Sentinel

Checking Lockers have eliminated

the payroll costs. the liability risks
i and the inefficiencies of these "gay
I nineties" systems.

“Slottenory” rocks
in single or double
face unils snop-loclr
rigidly together to fit
ony space or provide
(opacity required.

In their place . . . beautiful. high-
security lockers your patrons enjoy
using and are happy to pay to use.
No standing in line. no worries
about valuable possessions. great-
er privacy. too.

For you . . . reduced payrolls. in-
creased revenue. better customer
service and a truly up-to-date bath
house. Get the facts now . . . write:

 

COAT and HAT RACKS

8ter DJ”. 4-40. Portable Checker Rack (Illustrated)
Is 4 ft. 2 In. long: holds to coats and hats: toes
wherever needed on large. ball-bearlns-swlvel
'casters. Comes with or wlthout checks and snap-on
numbers. Strongly welded or square tubular. heavy
gauge and highly embossed turnlture ateel Smart
In modern baked tlnlshes. lee lifetime servlce-
never sag. areal: or sway. 3 It.. 1 a 5 It. units avail-
able. as well as other emclent space savlng equip-
ment for every church. school. commerclal.
mdustrlal and fnstltutlonal need.

Write for Bulletin (IX-515

VOIGEL-PETERSON CO.

. ssurmu

COIN-AND-KEY
OPERATED CHECKING SYSTEMS

THE FLXIBLE COMPANY
LOUDONVILLE, oHIo

.. 6 Jr", 5"”! v Chicago 9. Illinois

 

296 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

RESOURCES AND
REFERENCES

Noteworthy pamphlets for the recre
ation library:

Your Child’s Play by Grace Langdo
and Toys . . . The Tools of Children by
June Frantzen are two pamphlets of th
National Society for Crippled Childre
and Adults, which are excellent for sta
training. The first costs twenty-five cent
and covers children’s interests, materi
als, facilities, and friends, in a clear
informal style, stressing the typical, an
indicating ways of modification for th
handicapped. The second, which cost
a dollar, is the result of a four-yea
study carried on at the Meeting Stree
School, Children’s Rehabilitation Cen
ter, Providence, Rhode Island. The cen
ter studied arm movements of norma
and handicapped children, to discover:
the types of toys that contribute to theirI
development. Order from the societyi

11 S. LaSalle Street, Chicago 3.

Pre-Arlolescents— What M akes Tllem'
Tick? by Fritz Redl and Television:
flow to Use It Wisely with Children by'
Josette Frank. If you want to stir up
discussion among staff members. parent
groups, or teen-age study clubs, get
these from The Child Study Association
of America, 132 East 74th Street, New
York 21. The first throws considerable
light on that baffling period of child-
hood from around nine to thirteen years
(between the fifth and eighth grades].
It costs twenty-cents (plus four cents
postagel. The latter is a new, revised,
and expanded edition of a pOpular pam-
phlet and discusses what TV is doing—
and not doing—for our children. It
costs a quarter.

Live for Tomorrow is an attractive,
thirty-nine page booklet which covers
safety on the street and highway, at
home, on the farm and ranch, and also.
water, fire, and gun safety. It lists re-'
sources in agencies, films, and other
audio-visual aids. The many suggestions
for safety projects youngsters will enjoy
are.the best and most useful part. Most
of these are recreational in nature and
perfectly possible with any group of
youngsters. Available at thirty cents
from Boy Scouts of America, New
Brunswick, New Jersey.

Art and Craft Activities with Perme-
plast and Amoco is an enlarged and re-
vised edition of a thirty-five page book-
let which will be helpful in planning
craft programs for playgrounds, camp,
and indoor centers. Clear, interesting,
it is beautifully illustrated, and modern

in the projects explained or suggested.

. Order from American Art Clay Com-

RECREATION

 

  

rmonuscripis, leave wide
lmargins, and send the

 

An invaluable book
by a not-ed
recreation leader

By MARGARET E. MULAC
For everyone in the recreation
field—an immensely practical book
in which Miss Mulac surveys more
than 100 hobbies for all ages and
all groups, gives full instructions
on the equipment, space and time
required for each kind, and shows
how both children and adults can
select the hobbies that will bring
them most satisfaction. Complete
bibliography for each group of
hobbies. Index.

At all bookstores. $3.95

HARPER 8r BROTHERS, N Y. 16

Keep ’em SINGING

a. 1" those alldme tavorile

SONG SLIDES

Wendi-tin? hour: at Inn to:
cor-n9 and aid alike

I u 2 slides soc/slide
’ 2-» 4 slides l_co,'°.lide

«lu'l ‘03 'Z=TOt6-GUC 5

NATIONAL STUDIOS

42 West 48th Street
PH” foul   ‘-

JUII 0‘ I '

    
  
   
  
 
    

‘k Writers

for RECREATION!

Please double-space all

original copy. [Leia
carbon.

men use 1959

I pany, 4717 \Vest 16th Street, Indian-

apolis 24. It cost fifty cents.

Community Check List of Assets,
Veeris and Possibilities is designed to
he used as part of the preliminary plan-
ning for the General Federation of
Womens Clubs community achievement
contest. As an informal analysis form,
it will be of interest to recreation de-
partments and can be used as a basis
for stimulating stall and board meet-
ings. Order from the Federation at 1734-
V Street N.\V., Washington 6, D.C.

The Number One community need,
according to results of the 1956-58 eon-
test is youth recreation. The 1958-60
contest, open to any woman’s club af-
filiated with the federation or a member
of the Council of International Clubs,
runs through June, 1960. Since so many
of the projects chosen by the local cluhs
have a direct hearing on recreation fa-
cilities, leadership, and program, local
departments should encourage and co-
operatc with their local women’s clubs.

How to Tell a Story by Josephine
Gardner is another of the Porpoise
Booksbop’s delightful little twenty-five-
eent booklets. (Remember Jump Rope
Rhymes, Hopscotch and Who’s it?)
This new one is illustrated, like the
others, with clever drawings by Patricia

= Evans. Every leader should have his

own copy. All four can he ordered in a
gift envelope for a dollar, from the shop
at 308 Clement, San Francisco 18.

I’oclrct Reference on the United Na-
tions is a handy little guide that is a
ready source of reliable information on
the UN, not only for United Nations
Day hut all year round. It is available,

' at a dollar for twenty-five copies. from

the League of Women Voters of the
lj'niled States, 1026 17th Street, N.\V.,
Washington 6, l).C.

intramural Handbook. This booklet,
planned as an aid in laying out hack-
yard recreation areas, contains field
and court diagrams for nearly all team
and individual sports. It also includes
sources of rules for all sports and other
useful information. It is available free
from the Advertising Department, Raw-
lings Sporting Goods Company, 2300
Delmar, St. Louis 3, Missouri.

The Senior Foibies. The llev. Elsie
Thomas Culver, of the Oakland Council
of Churches, has written a revue to he
given by and about senior citizens.
Without any extra specialty numbers,
it runs a little over an hour. This is not
a perfect script, but has a spirit about
it that will be enjoyed by any golden-
age club. Order from Ccr-O-Vox Press,
38

ifornia, for one dollar.

Wth writing to our advertiser: please mention RECREATION.

or more in 6 days
i

Harrison Street, Oakland 1], Cal- I

l

I You can raise 5500

this easy way

Sell famous Mason
Candies and in 4 to 15 days
your group can make

$300 to $2500.

For complete information fill in and mail
us the coupon shown. lf you decide to go
ahead you don't risk a cent,—you pay noth-
ing in advance. We supply on consignment
your choice of Tuner: VAltll-ITI as of famous
Mason Candy. At no extra charge each
package is wrapped with a band printed
with your organization's name and picture.
You pay after you have sold the candy and
return what you don't sell. Candy is sold
at less than regular retail price. You make
$9.00 in net profit on every 30 sales of our
75¢ box. Or you can make $l2.00 on every
30 sales of our $1.00 box t66%% profit to

you on cost I. There's no risk! You can't lose.

Mail in coupon today for information about

susos's PROTECTED rum) amstsc nerves.

I
I
I
I
|
|
|
|
I
|
|
|
I
I
I
I
J

Mr. 1311th Store, Dept. RM-9
Mason. Box 549, Mineola.  Y.

Gentlemen: Please send me without
obligation, information on your Fund
Raising Piotr.

(Check one)

I am interested in your . . . .

75¢ Package Plan D

I am interested in your . . . .
$1.00 Package Plan [3

Name .- -
Age if under 21 *

 

A ddress _.  -
Organization.

l’hou c .

----------‘

f'
I
I
I
I
I
I
|
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
l

Meson Candies, Inc... Mine-ole, l... L. N. Y.

 

a

 

297

Periodicals

 

AMERICAN FORESTS. American Forestry As-
sociation, 919 17th Street, N.W., Washing-

ton 6, D.C. Monthly, $.50 per COPY: $5.00

annually.

PIIUN PIIAx. Pacific Recreation Service, P.O.
Box 185, San Jose, Calif. Ten units per
year for $3.50.

VITAL ISSUES (Discussion Guide). Center for
Information on America,Washington,Conn.
Ten issues annually, $3.00.

 

Magazine Articles

TIIE AMERICAN CIIILD, d-foy 1959.
Youth Work CanIps: Pros and Cons.
ADULT LEADERSHIP, March 1959.
Challenge of Automation, 1. Roby Kidd.
The Role of the Administrator, George A.

Peek.
Improving Instruction Through the Work-

shop Method, Walter A. Stone.
JOHPER, May-June 1959.
A New Twist in Camping, Eric Hughes and
Everett W. Woodward.
Thc PTA Belicvcs in Recreation for Ameri-
can Youth, Leon 0. Green.
Family Camping Boom. Reynold E. Carlson.
NEA JOURNAL, May 1959.
Creative Dramatics, .rlfargaret S. Woods.

PARENTS’, June 1959.
Children Need to Create. Frances N. Jamie-

son, NJ).
Chinese Rice Bag Gamc, rlft'ng-Hsfen Wu.
PARK MAINTENANCE. July 1959.
Turf Research Annual.
PARKS AND RECREATION, July 1959.

For tlIc Love of Sports.
Peoria Enters Boating Field, Rhodeil E.

Owens.

   

   
   

Effective Litter Prevention.
Survey of Zoo Fees and Charges.

Recordings

GREEK MYTHS FOR CHILDREN (12" 331/; LP).

Meglon Records, P.0. Box 366, 660 Colo-
rado Street, Claremont, Calif. $4.00 ppd.

Backs & Pamphlets
Received

Administration, Facilities

 

 

ARCIIITECTURE, U.S.A., Ian McCallum. Rein-
hold Publishing Corp., 430 Park Ave., New
York 22. Pp. 216. $13.50.

BETTER CAMPING—A Procedure for Adminis-
tration of National Standards and Desirable
Practices for YMCA Camps (2nd. rev.
1959), National Council of the YMCA. As-
sociation Press, 291 Broadway, New York
7. Pp. 36. $1.50.

CONSERvATION YEARBOOR 1958, Erie Kauf-
man. Editor. Conservation Yearhook, 2918
29th St., N.W., Washington 8, D. C. Pp. 272.
Paper, $7.50; hard-cover, $8.30.

COUNCILS IN MODERN PERSPECTIVE. Canadian
Welfarc Council, 55 Parkdale Avc., Ottawa
3, Ontario. Pp. 64. $1.00.

MODERN SWIMMING POOLS or TIIE WORLD,
Dietrich Fahian. National Pool Equipment
Co., Florence, Ala. Pp. 148. $10.00.

MORE TIIAN BREAD (public assistance pro-
grams), llelen C. Manning. U.S. Govern-
ment Printing Ofiice, Washington 25, D.C.
Pp. 24. 3.15.

NEIGIIRORIIOOD GOALS IN A RAPIDLY CHANGING
WORLD. National Federation of Settlements
and Neighhorbood Centers, 226 W. 47th St.,
New York 36. Pp. 115. Paper, $1.00.

 

   

weucen PRTABL

Now you can

GO

where the events
take place

TEE ...and be heard!
E BANDWAGON

The Mobile Combination Band Stand A

and Outdoor Stage

Ideal for use at music events, rallies, acts, demonstra-
tions, and for speakers, the Wenger Bandwagon pro-
vides comfortable quarters for performers, plus assuring _‘

resonance and volume for the audience.

At site, the
Wenger Bandwagon opens in minutes into a generous

MUSIC U'IP ENT Co.

stage or outdoor theater, or a complete. scientifically
designed music shell for band, orchestra, or chorus.
After event. it folds quickly into a handsome, completely

enclosed road trailer with ample locked storage space for

OWATONNA MINNESOTA

chairs. stands, instruments, or accessory equipment. May

be used indoors. tool

Every community will want one!

Send for complete details and specifications, or ask for

a free demonstration.

298

No obligation, of course.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

OMNIBUS BOATING CODE. Outboard Boatin

PERSONAL AND COMMUNITY HEALTH (llt

PUBLIC OFFICIALS AND TIIEIR HERITAGE. Publi

RESPONSIBILITIES OF STATE DEPARTMENTS

SERVING TIIE SMALL COMMUNITY (Unite

 

   
  
  
  
   
  
  
 
  
   
  

Club of America, 307 N. Michigan Ave.
Chicago, 111. File kit. Free.

ed.) , C. E. Turner. C. V. Mosby Co., 320
Washington Blvd., St. Louis, Mo. Pp.
$5.50.

Administration Service, 1313 E. 60th St.
Chicago 37. Unpaged. Free.

EDUCATION AND HEALTH FOR SCHO

HEALTH SERvICES. Council of Chief Stat
School Of‘Iicers, 1201 16th St., N.W., Wash

ington 25, D.C. Pp. 52. 8.35.

Community Defense Services), Regina]
Robinson. Association Press, 291 Broad-
way, New York 7. Pp. 127. $2.50.

STATE SCIIOOL LEGISLATION, 1959, Arch K
Steiner. U.S. Government Printing Ofiice

Washington 25, D. C. Pp. 189. $.70.

American Scene, Americana

ALASKA: TIIE BIG LAND, Ben Adams. Hill
Wang, 104 5th Avc., New York 11. Pp. 213
Paper, $2.25; cloth, $3.95.

COVERED BRIDGES TO YESTERDAYS, Hazel an

Chalmers l’ancoast. Box 706, Newark, Ohio
Pp. 95. $5.00.

EMERGING RURAL COMMUNITIES, John 11
Kolb. University of Wisconsin Press, 811
State St., Madison. Pp. 212. $4.50.

FAMILY SAGA, TIIE (and Other Phases 0
American Folklore), Mody C. Boatright
Robert B. Downs, and John T. Flanagan.
University of Illinois Press, Urbana. Pp. 65'
$2.50.

FROM WILDERNESS To EMPIRE (rev. ed.) , Rel»
ert Glass Cleland. Alfred Knopf, 501 Madi-
son Ave., New York 22. Pp. 445. $6.95.

HAVASU CANYON: Gem of the Grand Canyo
Joseph Wampler. Eric Swenson, 2119
Shattuck Ave., Berkeley, Calif. Pp. 121.
per, $2.00 (plus $.08 for California a
dresses).

INDIANS, Edwin Tunis. World Puhlishi
2231 W. 110th St., Cleveland 2, Ohio.
157. $4.95.

MINNESOTA'S FOREST RESOURCES, R. N. CI
ningham, A. G. llorn, and D. N. Quinn
U.S. Government Printing Office, WaslIi
ton 25, D.C. Pp. 52. $.55.

NATIONAL FORESTS, TIIE, Arthur Carh
Alfred Knopf, 501 Madison Ave., New Y
22. Pp. 289. $4.75.

OCRACOKE, Carl Coerch. John F. Blair,
First National Bank Bldg, Winston-Sal
N. C. Pp. 223. $3.50.

OUTDOOR ADVERTISING ALONG llIGIIWAYS
Legal Analysis). lIighway Research B0
2101 Constitution Ave., Washington 25,
Pp. 101. Paper, $4.00.

PENN'S WOOD WEST, Edwin L. Peterson. U
versity of Pittsburgh Press, Pittsburgh

Pa. Pp. 250. $15.00.

SOCIOLOGY TODAY: Problems and PrOSp
Robert K. Merton, Leonard Broom,
Leonard S. Cottell, Jr., Editors. Basic B01

. 59 4th Ave., New York 3. Pp. 623. $7.50.

ST. LAWRENCE SEAWAY, Clara Ingram Jud
Follet Publishing, 1010 W. Washing
Chicago 7. Pp. 160. $3.95.

SUBURBAN DOWNTOWN IN TRANSITION, Sam
and Lois Pratt. Fairleigh Dickinson Uni
sity, Rutherford, N. J. Pp. 116. $3.00.

(Continued on page 300)

   
  
 
  
   
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
  

RECREAT

South Africa, Japan, to Italy, Israel. In
addition, photographs of puppet films
from Czechoslovakia and Poland are
included.

The range of characters possible in
puppets, the costuming, the stage sets,
the stories used, and the movement pos-
sible are almost unbelievable. Any
leader interested in puppetry will find
this book an exceedingly valuable
source of information and inspiration

as will leaders in arts and crafts and
drama.

This book also deserves to be on the

shelves of all school, college, and univer-
sity libraries. Its comprehensive history

PUBLICATIONS

 

Covering the Leisure-time Field

Developing Executiv-e Skills, Hor-

phasis on developing the whole individ-
wood F. Merrill and Elizabeth Morting,

 

Editors. American Monogement Asso-

ciotion, l5l5 Broodwoy, New York
36. Pp. 431. $9.00.

This publication includes some of the
latest information on management do-

I velopmcnt, its background, require-

ments, specific tools and techniques.

Case studies in executive development

and a number of articles are used to

illustrate its essentials and methods.

Various sections, including appraisal

forms aud related material, interviews
and counseling, emphasize the impor-
tance companies attach to the techniques
of staff development. Among the many
points emphasized are:

c In our free society each person has
an obligation and is expected to develop
his fullest potential in character, capa-
city, and achievement.

0 Management works through people;
in short, management is the develop-
ment of people.

0 Men and women cannot be developed
by external pressures and influences.
They can only be led to develop them-
selves. Motivated by the managing au-
thority, workers turn naturally to the
Ivarious aids and programs available.

0 Managers can learn to manage only
through direct application of manage-
rial knowledge and skills to the respon-
_sihilities of their jobs.

0 Workers do not develop in poorly
managed organizations.

0 Executive appraisal has a twofold ob-
jective: to select those who show great-
est promise of development and point
up what individuals require in terms of
development.
In Individuals who do not know their
performance is satisfactory are operat-

ing under a psychological handicap.
Each individual presents a separate and

distinct developmental problem. All

Ipersonnel development is personal de-
"velopment.

0 An organization has a responsibility
'to create the necessary growth climate
[or workers and must work out a plan
for his personal improvement with each

hdividual.

r The future will see increasing em-

.PTEM BER 1959

ual in all his relationships—with the
organization, his profession, the com-
munity, and the world—rather than

merely upon the development of tech-
uieal skills.

This is a very valuable book and
recommended reading for managing
executives—W. C. Sutherland, NRA

Recreation Personnel Service.

Partner Songs*, arranged by Fred-
erick Beckman. Ginn and Company,
Statler Building, Boston 17. Pp. 91.
$1.20.

Can you begin to count the number
of times when you and your friends
began singing There’s a Long, Long
Trail along with Keep the Home Fires
Burning? Some songs seem to be nat-
ural partners, and, when sung simulta-
neously, the result is more pleasing than
when either is sung alone.

Here’s a fresh, new collection of such
“partner” songs—seventeen pairs in all.
complete with words and m usie. They’ll
be fun to use to vary community sing-
ing, or around the campfire, or on pic-
nics, or any occasion where folks get
together and sing. This is an excellent
idea for a song collection. Wonder why
it hasn’t been done before.

Puppets ond Puppetry, Cyril Beou-
mont. Viking Press, 625 Madison Ave-
nue, New York 22. Pp. 140. lllustrated.
$9.50.

In addition to puppetry’s usual scope
as a combined art and drama form, this
book brings puppetry into present-day
focus by including the new uses given
it in films, television, and advertising.
It is not a how-to-do-it book but a very
valuable source of information and ref-
erence on puppets and marioncttes, hoth
past and present, throughout the world.

The four hundred splendid illustra-
tions, mostly photographic, show pup-
pets developed by special puppet and
theater groups in fifteen countries. rang-
ing from the United States to Russia,

 

’ Available from NRA Recreation Book
Center. 8 W. 8th Street, New York I].

of puppetry, its eXplanations of the
many varieties of puppets and how they
function, and its discussion of new uses
for puppets make it not only a beautiful,
but also a very valuable book—Vir-

ginia Mussefman, NRA Program Serv-
ice.

Fun-Time Paper Folding, Elinor Trip-
ato Massoglia. Childrens Press, Jock-
son Boulevard ond Racine Avenue,
Chicago 7. Pp. 32. Diograms. $2.50.

Here is an introduction to the elabor-
ate Japanese art of origami, or paper-
folding, so popular today. During the
six years the author spent with her hus-
band and six children in Japan, they
learned that the art of paper-folding
could be as fascinating to an American
family as it has been to generations of
Japanese families.

Thirteen projects, including the fa-
mous crane, flying bird, butterfly, and
amusing double boat, are described
clearly, step by step. The clarity of
George Rlloads’ diagrams adds to the
usefulness of the book. It is almost im-
possible to look through any of its pro-
jects without reaching for a six-inch
square of paper. This art-and-eraft me-
dium has real possibilities, and we sus-
pect that golden-agers will enjoy it as
much as children.

Let's Sing and Ploy, Dorothea Wil-
trout. Childrens Press, Jockson Boule-
vard ond Racine Avenue, Chicago 7.
Pp. 33. lllustrated. $2.50.

Mrs. Wiltrout is a kindergarten teach-
er in Gary, Indiana, and, judging from
these thirteen songs, the youngsters in
her school are very lucky children. The
songs are not watered down; they are
gay, catchy, playful, and full of action.

Using them as the vehicle, the author
has worked out simple actions that turn
them into games full of rhythm and in-
formal drama. Leaders working with
youngsters from four to around eight
years of age will welcome this new col-
lection. It is not only good musically,

but excellent for group activity. full of
imagination within children’s interests
and experiences.

H

299

The illustrations by Mary Gehr cap-
ture all the charm of childhood. Better

v two copies of the book, because
you’ll want to tear out the illustrations.
mount and frame them.

Let’s All Sing, James F. leisy. Ab-
ingdon Press, 20l 8th Avenue, South,
Nashville, Tennessee. Pp. 176. $2.95.

The 153 songs in this collection have
been chosen carefully for “singability.”
They are carefully classified under var-
ious headings such as “From Our
Land,” including American folk songs
and chanteys and “From Our Neigh-
bors,” with such songs as Alauette, La
Paloma, Bendemeer's Steam, plus less
familiar ones. Other groupings in-
clude love songs, hymns, a really ex-
cellent collection of spirituals, and
twelve Christmas songs, including The
Twelve Days of Christmas (so hard to
find when you need it). A cross—index
of the songs listed alphabetically, by
topics (such as names, colors, animals,
cowboys, and so on) , and by first lines,
makes this collection very easy to use. A
brief sentence or two prcceding each
song gives something of its history,
source, or other interesting detail. The
tune to each song is also includcd.

The songs have been selected with
excellent taste and include a widc va-
riety. Everyone is likely to find his
special favorite, whether it be “The
Whole World in His Hands,” “Green-
sleeves” or the rollicking A Capital

Ship.

Building a Ship in a Bottle, Ray-
mond H. Biggs. Bruce Publishing, 400
N. Broadway, Milwaukee 1. Pp 64.
Illustrated. Paper, $1.00.

At last, the secret is out! Now you
can find out how a full-rigged clipper
ship model can be built and inserted
into a small-necked hottle. This fas-
cinating little slick-paper booklet will
take you, step by step, right through all
the construction details to the final
magic moment. It is written simply, but
in complete detail, and is illustrated by
many simple line drawings of the var-
ious steps involved, in exact dimen-
sions.

Here’s a new hobby for teen-age boys
or older adults or anyone with a bit of
wanderlust in the blood and a modicum
of whittlng skill. It sounds like real
fun.

Inclement Weather Activities, Jerry

G. Edwards. Pacific Recreation, Box

185, San Jose, California. Pp 82.
lllustrated. Paper, $2.50.

This collection of games, written pri-
marily for use by classroom teachers of

300

elementary school children, is divided
into five sections: quiet games, semi-
active games, active games, relays, and
progressive party games. They are pri-
marily ones recreation leaders will rec-
ognize as old standbys. It is very handy,
however, to have them in a simple book-
let and not have to assemble them from
more comprehensive collections.

This will be very useful to teachers,
parents, church and club leaders faced
with children confined indoors and
bursting with energy. The illustrations
by John D. Jenott are gay and amusing.

.
Book Listings

( Continued from page 298)

URBAN SOCIETY, William E. Cole. lloughton
Mifilin, 2 Park St., Boston, Mass. Pp. 591.
$6.50.

VIRGINIA: A New Look at the Old Dominion,
Marshall W. F ishwiek. Harper 8: Bros., 49
E. 33rd St., New York 16. Pp. 305. $5.50.

Arts and Crafts

ART WORKSHOP LEADERS PLANNING GUIDE,
lloward Conant, Editor. Davis Publications,
Printers Bldg., Worcester 8, Mass. Pp. 43.
Spiral bound, $2.60.

BECINNER’S BOOK OF CLAY MODELLINC, TIIE,
Theo Luns. Chas. T. Branford Co., 69 Union
St., Newton Centre 59, Mass. Pp. 63. $2.75.

BECINNER’s BOOK or OIL PAINTING, Adrian
Hill. Emerson Books, 251 W. 19th St., New

'ork 11. Pp. 76. $2.95.

BUSY HANDS (wood projects for children),
Gloria Foreman. P.O. Box 400, Oklahoma
City, Okla. Pp. 64. Paper, $1.00.

COMPLETE BOOK OF l-lANDCRArTS, Ruth Zeck-
lin. Chas. T. Branford Co., 69 Union St.,
Newton Centre 59, Mass. Pp. 328. $6.50.

ENAMEL ART ON METALS, Edward Winter.
Watson-Guptill, 24 W. 40th St., New York
18. Pp. 159. $9.75.

FLOWER BOOK (making paper flowers). Den-
nison Manufacturing Co., Framingham,
Mass. Pp. 37. 3.50.

GENERAL CRAFTS, George A. Willoughby.
Chas. A. Bennett Co., 237 N. Monroe St.,
Peoria 3, ll]. Pp. 143. $3.80.

HANDBOOK FOR CRAFTSMEN (1958). Society
of Connecticut Craftsmen, 17 S. Main St.,
W. Ilartford, Conn. Pp. 16. Paper, $1.00.

JAPANESE INK-PAINTING, Ryukyu Saito. Chas.
E. Tuttle, Rutland, Vt. Pp. 96. $3.75.

MODELING WITH BALSA, Ron Warring. Ster«
ling Publishing, 419 4th Ave., New York 16.
Pp. 4-8. $2.50.

NEW THINCS To DRAW AND How To DRAW
TIIEM, Doug Anderson. Dodd, Mead, & Co.,
342 4th Ave., New York. Pp. 56. $2.75.

ORICAMI (Japanese paper folding), lsao
Honda. McDowell, Obolensky, 219 E. 61st
St., New York 21. Pp. 37. $3.95.

RELIGIOUS IDEAS FOR ARTS AND CRAFTS, Rus-
scll and Ruth Barbour. Christian Education
Press, 1505 Race St., Philadelphia 2. Pp.
95. Spiral bound, $2.50.

SCULPTURE: TECHNIQUES IN CLAY, WAX,
SLATE, Frank Eliscu. Chilton Co., 56th 8:
Chestnut, Philadelphia 39. Pp. 192. $7.50.

SKETCIIINC WITH TIIE FELT-TIP PEN, Henry

I

C. Pitz. Viking Press, 625 Madison Ave.,
New York 22. Pp. 64. $2.95.

WHAT SHALL WE DRAW? Adrian Hill. Emer-
son Books, 251 W. 19th St., New York 11.
Pp. 64. $2.50.

WIIAT YOU NEED IS ART. YES? Dorothy
Kaueher. Pageant Press, 101 5th Ave., New
York 3. Pp. 84. $3.00.

WOODCU‘I‘S, John R. Biggs. Sterling Publish-
ing, 419 4th Ave. New York 16. Pp. 206.
$4.95.

WORKSHOP OF YOUR OWN, Martha Lincoln
and Katherine Torrey. Houghton Mifllin
Co., 2 Park St., Boston, Mass. Pp. 148. $2.50.

Games. Holidays, Parties, Puzzles

ADVENTURE or CHESS, TIIE, Edward Lasker.
Dover Publications, 180 Variek St., New
York 14. Pp. 296. Paper, $1.45.

AMUSEMENTS IN MATHEMATICS, H. E. Dude-
ney. Dover Publications, 180 Varick St.,
New York 14. Pp. 258. Paper, $1.25.

ART OF CIIESS, THE, (rev. ed.) , Jamcs Mason.
Dover Publications, 180 Varick St., New
York 14. Pp. 378. Paper, $1.85.

ATTACK AND COUNTERATTACK IN CHESS, Fred
Reinfeld. Barnes 8.- Nohle, 105 5th Ave.,
New York 3. Pp. 154. Paper, $1.25.

CANTERBURY PUZZLES, TI-IE, H. E. Dudeney.
Dover Publications, 180 Varick St., New
York 11. Pp. 255. Paper, $1.25.

CIIRISTMAS HOLIDAYS AROUND THE WORLD,
John B. Ray. Comet Press, 200 Variek St.,
New York 14. Pp. 69. $2.50.

GAMES AND FUN FOR PARTIES, Sylvia K.
Magcr. Areo Publishing, 480 Lexington
Ave., New York 17. Pp. 44. $2.00.

GENTLE ART OF MATHEMATICS, TIIE, Dan
Pedoe. Macmillan Co., 60 5th Ave., New
York 11. Pp. 143. $3.50.

HANDBOOK OF CIIRISTMAS DECORATION, A,
Dorothy Waugh. Macmillan Co., 60 5th
Ave., New York 11. Pp. 143. $3.95.

INSTRUCTIONS To YOUNC CHESS PLAYERS, H.
Golombek. I’itman Publishing, 2 W. 45th 1
St., New York 36. Pp. 152. $3.25.

LET’S HAVE A PICNIC (manual and kit), Betty
Jennings and Irving Richter. Organization
Services, lne., 8259 Livernois, Detroit 4,
Mich. $1.00.

MATIIEMATICAI. PUZZLES or SAM LovD, Martin
Gardner, Editor. Dover Publications, 1&1
Varick St., New York 14. Pp. 165. Paper,
$1.00.

MATHEMATICAL RECREATIONS or LEWIS CAR-
ROLL (2 vols.). Dover Publications, 180
Variek St.. New York 14. Unpaged. $1.50
each.

MATHEMATICS (Numbers. Symbols and
Space), Irving Adler. Golden Press, 630
Fifth Ave., New York 20. Pp. 56. $.50.

PARTY BOOK, Jane Adams. E. P. Dutton, 300
4th Ave., New York 10. Pp. 128. $3.25.

SOCIAL GAMES FOR RECREATION (2nd ed.),
Evelyne Borst and Elmer D. Mitchell. Ron-
ald Press, 15 E. 26th St., New York 10. Pp.
348. $5.50.

WATSON’S CLASSIC BOOK ON THE PLAY 0!“ T
IIAND AT BRIDGE (new ed.), Louis H. Wat-
son. Barnes & Noble, 105 5th Ave., Ne
York 3. Pp. 475. $2.25.

WIIEN ST. NICHOLAS GOT BACK, Samuel White
Patterson. Comet Press, 200 Varick St.,
New York 14. Pp. 37. $2.00.

WORD GAME BOOK, THE, William and M
Morris. Harper & Bros., 49 W. 33rd St., New
York 16. Pp. 270. $3.95.

 
   
  
  
   
  
 
  

RECREATIO

New

Price
$3.50 each

(Includes
l2 blades)

 

I954. I955. l956. l957. l958. l959 and Undated

o liluc heavy simulated leather stamped in gold
0 Each holds one year's issues

[Extra sets ol looped rods available separately
lor $.05 per set]

RECREATION MAGAZINE
8 West Eighth Street. New York It

CHANGE OF ADDRESS

If you are planning to move, notify us at least thirty
days helore the date of the issue with which it is to take
effect. if possible, in order to receive your magazines
without interruption. Send both your old and new ad-
dresses by letter, card or post oliice form 225 to:

SUBSCRIPTION DEPARTMENT
RECREATION MAGAZINE
it VEST EIGHTH STREET
NEW YORK 11, N. Y.

The post olliee will not forward copies unless you pro-
vidt‘ extra postage. Duplicate copies cannot be sent.

———-—— -——- —-.—— ---.- . -——__ ‘- _

RATS FOR VERONE!

Whatever your requirements, you’ll find the right craft
at the right price. Many popular crafts are available tn
individual kits and bulk-packed [or institutions at lower
prices.

Free cralt instruction movies are available to groups.

Free demonstrations of crafts are given upon request;
free cral't instruction is available at all our stores and
annual Cralt Clinics lor indmduals, craft teachers, camp

counselors, etc. '

Write for free copy of Craft Chatter, l2-page magazine
of information and instruction. Write for tree 64~page
illustrated catalog of over 30 cralts, including mosaics.

ADVERTISING DEPT.

AMERICAN HANDICRAFTS CO.
9. 0. BOX 1643-R ton woam I. rams

 

   

 

   

  

 

 

 

"The Choice of Those
Who Play The Game"

 

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
+____......_.._
I
I
I
I
l
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
l
I
I
I
I

   

Look to MocGregor first for the finest in all spOrts equipment.

The MoeGregor Co. ° Cincinnati 32, Ohio
FOOTBAll ' BASEBAIL ' BASKETBALL ' GOLF ' TENNIS

FREE ENGRAVING
[IN All lRUPHlES

PURCHASED FROM National
WORLD'S FINEST TROPHIES

TROPHIES

SAVINGS

TOP
QUALITY

LARGE
SELECTION

NEW
FREE I959

CATALOG
UPON REQUEST

NAIIIINAI lHllPHY SALES, INL

75 W. VAN BUREN ST.
EHIEAGU 5, Ill.

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention Recess-nos.

LLE
SKATIN a --.._

eeeeeattoa t/oat ea teetat'm more people

in [err 510a66. . .

Roller skating is a sport enjoyed by the
young in heart. A gym, hall or any Other
sm00th surface makes a line skating _area,
and there is no damage to the floor if
proper skates are used. Little equipment is
needed . . . little supervision is required.
That's why more and more schools and
churches have roller skating programs—
and marry oft/Jet” make money by charging a
nominal fee for skating. Write today for
free information.

  
 
 
  
    
     

New Rubber-Plastic Wheels are kind to gym floors

Nor only do these new Duryte rubber-plastic wheels
outwear orhers, they give the skater more tracrion
and smoorher rolling. They are guaranteed not to
mar or scratch the floors. Write for free details on
roller skating programs and skating equipment.

 

4490-l West Lake, Chicago 24, Illinois

 

