 

Give BOOKS For ChriStmas

K§E§E§E§E§E§X§E§K§K§K§E§K§E§E§K§X§E§wmmii

For a Friend who is a Church leader 

ll31———FUN PLANS FOR CHURCH RECREATION .............................. .. $2.50
By Agnes Durant Pylant. A collection of games, songs, skits and
stunts, races, relays, and other recreation activities with sugges-
tions for the leader.

I434~SUMMER WITH NURSERY CHILDREN .................................. .. $2.00
By Florence Schulz. Designed to aid in the planning of activi-
ties and facilities for the church nursery school in summer. In-
eludes songs. indoor and outdoor games, teaching techniques,
and illustrations. 156 pp.

For a Friend who is a [amp leader 

783—CREATII'E CRAFTS FOR CAMPERS ........................................ .. $7.95
By Catherine T. Hammett and Carol M. Horrocks. An emphasis
on outdoor arts and crafts in srganized camps and for hand-
(‘raftcrs of all ages. 175 projects using Nature’s designs and ma-
terials. 431 pp.

152—-~THE CAMP PROGRAM BOOK .............................................. .. $5.00
By Catherine T. Hammett and Virginia Musselman. A one-vol-
ume camping encyclopedia covering program planning, outdoor
living, sports, arts and crafts, specific programs, pageants. 380 pp.

149—CAMP COUNSELING .............................................................. .. $4.75"
By Viola Mitchell and Ida B. Crow/0rd. Complete, up-tO-date
guide. to camping—how to handle problem campers, instructions
for teaching crafts, music, sports, etc. 406 pp.

For a Friend who is a Parent 

l420—PLANNING YOI'R HOME FOR PLAY .................................. .. $3.50
By Albert A. Ostrow. Helpful hints for turning waste space into
play space in backyards, attics, apartments. Suggestions can
easily and inexpensively be carried out without much equipment.
Illustrated. 132 pp.

l353—THE RAINBOW BOOK OF AMERICAN FOLK TALES AND
LEGENDS ............................................................................ .. $4.95
By Maria Leach. A wide selection embodying the spirit of Amer-

ica, retold for children. Section on the folklore of the fifty states.
Illustrations. 318 pp.

l295—GARDENING: A NEW WORLD FOR CHILDREN ...................... .. $2.75
By Sally Wright. Covers the basic fundamentals of year-round
gardening for children with emphasis on gardens compatible with
their interests. Contains projects and planning schemcs. Illus-
trations. 183 pp.

For a Friend who is a Ieen-dger 

69—FLOWER ARRANGING FOR J UNIOHs ...................................... .. $2.75
By Virginia Stone Marshall. A simple and clear explanation of
the hasic principles of flower arrangement, especially for young
people. With illustrations by the author. 113 pp.

84l—BETTY WHITE’S TEEN-AGE DANCE ETIQUETTE ................ .. $2.50
By Betty White. Presents the accepted social practices for teen-
agers. Illustrated by June Kirkpatrick. 64 pp.

219—BET'I‘Y WHITE’S TEEN-AGE DANCEROOK ............................ .. $3.95
By Betty White. Contain all the the popular dances, with clear
and easy instructions. Helpful ideas on invitations, dress, etc.
Illustrated. 240 pp.

605—THE SEVENTEEN PARTY BOOK ............................................ .. $2.75
Edited by Enid Harrpt. For teensagers, detailed plans for showers,
high—school proms, birthday parties, box parties, and others. Dec-
orations. menus, recipes, games. Illustrated. 207 pp.

RECREATION BOOK CENTER

BIO—PHOTOGRAPHY FOR TEEN-AGERS (2ND. ED.) .................. .. $3.95
By Lucille Robertson Marshall. Covers every aspect of photo-

graphy, from the simple box camera to flash bulbs; use of color;
latest equipment; and processes. Photographs. 180 pp.

For the Friend with a Hobby 

779--THE CANDLE BOOK ................................................................ .. $3.50

By Carli Laklan. The first and complete book on candles and
candle-craft as a hobby or for money-making. 190 pp.

802—MOSAICes: Hoauv AND ART .................................................. .. $3.50
By Edwin Hendrickson. The essentials of a new hobby requiring
no specral artistic talent or age limit. Details and photos on how

to make many functional objects of different designs and color
schemes. 111 pp.

1176—IIANDsIADE RUGS .................................................................. .. $1.75
By Kathryn Andrews Marinod. Methods and techniques for mak-
Ing braided, hooked, woven, and other types of rugs. Suggests

tools and equipment. Pointers on care, cleaning and repairing.
93 pp.

1462—How TO MAKE FISIIING LURES ...................................... .. $3.50
By Vlad EvanoH. Instructions for making a variety of inexpensive
lures. Construction and assembly for fresh and salt-water lures,

lpgggs, spoons, spinners, spin bugs, etc. Illustrated by the author.
PP-

1369—BETTER IIOMES AND GARDENS FLOWER ARRANGING rOR
EVERY DAY AND SPECIAL OCCASIONS .............................. .. $2.95
ABC’s of basic arrangement styles—traditional, Oriental, mod-
ern. Illustrated instructions. Helpful hints, over 200 photo-
graphs, 115 in color. 160 pp.

For the Friend who is a Sportsman 

666—BASIC SKILLS IN SPORTS i 2ND ED.) .................................. .. $3.95*
By David A. Armbruster and Leslie W. Irwin. Presents the es-
sential techniques, strategies, offenses and defenses of team and
individual sports for both men and women. Rules, equipment,
safety factors, tests. 334 pp.

l376—THE COMPLETE BOOK or WATER SKIING .......................... .. $4.50
By Robert Scharf. Written for both the beginner and the
advanced skier. Includes information on required equipment,
tricks, jumping, boat handling, water safety, and tournaments.
Over 100 illustrations. 191 pp.

For the Friend who is a Nature lover 

1290—THE TREE IDENTIFICATION BOOK ........................................ ..$10.00 1
By George W. D. Symonds. 1539 pictures to help identify 130
different trees. In two sections: Pictorial Keys, showing fruit,
hark, flowers, etc.; Master Pages, showing member of the family.

Side edge indexed, 272 pp.

1153—THE ART or DRYING PLANTs AND FLOWERS .................... .. $4.50
By Mabel Squires. A practical book on the selecting, drying, and I
using of plant materials for year around decoration. Detailed
charts, lists, and tables. PhotOgraphs. 258 pp. II

l285—BEGINNER’S GUIDE To WILD FLOWERS ................................ .. $3.50
By Ethel Hinckley Housman. A complete field guide to wild
Howers in the United States and Canada. Drawings Show in de-
tail the flower, leaf, and stem of every wild flower. 376 pp.

8 West Eighth Street, New York 11, New York

For Christmas mailings—orders must reach Book Center by November 20.

Prices subject to publishers’ changes

* Not subject to NRA membership discount.

When ordering, mention Recreation Magazine.

NOVEMBER 1959

 

When you make your one big pledge to your town's united campaign,
you are actually giving to many campaigns in one. Your one contribution
fights disaster and disease, works to prevent iuvenile delinquency, and

attacks the problems of the aging and the breakdown of family life.

United Way pledges support to 27.500 localI state. and
national agencies which serve 77,400,000 Americans.

When a United Way volunteer aslxs you to give. welcome
him with your pledge.

GIVE ENOUGH FOR ALL

 

> WE NEED YOUR LETTERS! Please
don’t be shy about expressing your
opinions. If you feel strongly—one way
or the other—about an article, short
note. editorial. somebody clse’s letter,
or whatever, write a Letter to the Editor.
If you want it signed “Anonymous.” tell
us so: but all letters coming into
RECREATION Magazine must be signed.
Don‘t forget. this is your magazine!

D TnERE HM'E BEEN SEVERAL COM-
PLAINTS from Congress delegates that
they did not receive their special Con-
gress issue until their arrival home—
after the Congress. Well, now, every
single delegate was provided that spe-
cial issue—in his delegate’s hit—for his
convenience in getting around the hotel.
Chicago, the meeting rooms, and so on.
All articles were keyed to sessions for
which they would be good background
material. Would you people attending
the Congress prefer to have all this spe-
cial material in the September issue, so
you could study it at your leisure, be-
fore you go? Please let us know: it

would help a great deal in future plan-
ning.

F STILL WANTED. Back in the May is-
sue of RECREATION Magazine, we re-
quested of people who regularly get out
a local recreation publication, to send
title. description, and the name and ad-
dress of the person who prepares and
edits it to: Oka T. Hester, Parks and
Recreation Department. Greensboro,
North Carolina. Mr. Hester, chairman
of a subcommittee of the NRA’s Nation-
al Advisory Committee on Recreation
Publications. is still trying to build a
mailing list based on this information.
Please continue to send it in to him as
his list is nowhere near complete.

) AMERICA'S MOST SECRET SERVICES
are not the Central Intelligence Agency
nor the FBI, but its social service agen-
cies. Says Leo Perlis, national director
of AFL-CIO Community Service Activi-
ties. “Too many agencies in too many
communities are still not known to
enough people who need service.” He
urges social welfare agencies to “make
known their services to the people.”
While the National Recreation Asso-

358

eiation and recreation departments are
not social welfare agencies or depart-
ments, it seems to us his statement is
valid for us, too. Let your people
know your program. let them know
what you’re doing for them: in this way
you will receive both moral and finan-
cial backing from an informed public.

> BUYING ONE Box 01“ UNICEF CHRIST-
MAS CARDS provides f orty-five children
with a daily glass of milk for a week.
or the vaccine to protect sixty children
from tuberculosis. The price is $1.25
for a box of ten extremely attrac-
tive cards. designed by world-famous
artists. This year’s cards are designed
by Joan Miro. Bettina, Dong Kingman,
Jozef Domjan (these elegant woodcuts
come live to the box), Doris Lee, Kay
Christiansen. and Fritz Busse.

For complete information and order
forms. write U. S. Committee for
UNICEF—Greeting Cards, P. O. Box
22. Church Street Station. New York 8,
New York.

> THE OCTOBER ISSUE OF Harper’s
Magazine carried an article in connec-
tion with the recent battle in the New
York legislature over the proposed
route 9f the Northway. The contro-
versy is over whether it should encroach
on the “forever wild” section of the
Adirondack Preserve or take the so-
called Champlain route. Called “Why
Spoil the Adirondacks?” and written
by Robert and Leona Rienow, the piece
goes into the pros and cons of this ex-
tremely controversial and important
problem.

> LAND PURCIIASE POLICY CLARIFIED.
The Departments of the Army and In-
terior have agreed upon a supplement
to their land acquisition policy, which
clarifies the consideration to be given
recreation and fish and wildlife re-
sources early in the planning stage of
reservoir projects. The new supplement
has received Presidential approval.

b TIIE 1959 ANNUAL CONvENTION of
the National Society for Crippled Chil-
dren and Adults will be held November
2‘) to December 2, at Palmer House,
Chicago. '

Safety Front and Center

I In line with the note (October
“Things You Should Know” column in
RECREATIONI about “those cute (and
dangerous) little motorized cars” is a
one-pager in the August 3 issue of Life
about cute little motorboats—capable
of going 25 mph, piloted by youngsters
from five to fourteen. The article main-
tains that this Southern Californian
Midget Power Boat Association is un-
der strict supervision, but as the Nation-
al Safety Council warns about midget
cars: this is too much Speed for a child
to handle. Unfortunately, there is no
overall federal legislation making it il-
legal for youngsters to pilot high-pow-
ered motorboats. Various states are
working on legislation to help overcome
the many boating problems. The United
States Coast Guard is “emphasizing
education not legislation.”

0 Once again, in 1958, an increasing
numbers of Americans ioined the ranks
of “The Luekless Legion”-——-those who
were injured or killed in automobile
accidents. The above is also the title
of The Travelers 1959 Book of Street
& Highway Accident Data, which has
been published annually since 1931 (ex-
cept for the war years), and is distrib-
uted free in the interest of street and
highway safety. Inquiries should be
directed to John C. O’Brien, The Trav-
elers Insurance Companies, Hartford,
Connecticut. Single copies or quantities
may be had free as long as the supply
lasts.

> TIIREE NEw PUBLICATIONS on recrca-
tion for the ill and handicapped are
now available from the National Rec-
reation Association. They are: Starting
a Recreation Program in. Institutions

for the I” or Handicapped Aged ($2.00)
by Morton Thompson of the NRA staff;
Recreation and Psychiatry ($1.25) by
Drs. Robert J. Campbell, Alexander
Reid Martin. William C. Menninger,
and James Plant; and Recreation for
Patients in General Hospitals ($.35) by
Beatrice H. Hill and Elliott M. Cohen,
also of the NRA staff. These may all he
ordered from the Association, with the
usual ten percent discount to NRA as-
sociates and alliliates.

> STUDENTS INQUIRING about the 1960
Kodak High School Photo Contest will
be in line for a free supply of informa-
tion offered by the Kodak Company.
These aids provide all basic informa-
tion needed by the young photographer
to enter the contest. For information
and entry blanks write: Kodak High
School Photo Contest, Rochester 4,
New York. 

RECREATION

NOVEMBER 1959

 

Editor in Chief. JOSEPH Paesneacssy
Editor. Donornv Doxswsos

ASSISTANT EDtTons
Jess: \VACIITEI. ELvIaA DELANY

Assocutt: EDITORS
Administration, Ceoncr: BUTLER
Program, VIRGINIA Mussmun
Business .llanager. RALPII MORRIS

 

VOL. Lll. Price 50 Cents No. 9

——

the the Cover

lill’E GRAPES. The warmth and promise of the
harvest season are beautifully expressed by seven-

teen-y ear-old Tom linrns of Strutlters. Ohio. a fifty-
ilollar Special Award Winner. Senior Division. 1959
Kodak High School Photo Contest. sponsored att-
nually by the Eastman Kodak Company.

' 'ext Mosul!

The December lSrlH'. will bring you many exciting
reports on the Congress just past in Chicago: high-
lights of the intpor ant sessions. a page of brief notes
about events and people. a specially edited version
of Paul Goodman’s controversial banquet Speech.
at write-up of the Institute by Woody Sutherland.
and many photographs. Other articles will cover
such subjects as how to put on a doll show. the goals
of the recreation program in a psychiatric hospital.
atnl an evaluation of public-private responsibility
for recreation. For Christmas there are articles on
how to build durable. handsome ontdoor Christmas
displays, six new games for Christmas. am] if space.
Christmas crafts.

Photo Credits

Page 366. (top). also 35? (bottom) American Music
Conference; 367, (top). also 366 (bottom) Daryl
Cornick (courtesy Manitowoc, Wisconsin. Depart-
ment of Recreation): 372. Don E. Olson. Fargo.
N.I).: 3TB. (rigbtl Wesley H. Gibson. Jr.. Times
Herald, Vallejo. California, (left) Wisconsin Con-
servation Department: 383. John Bonsay. llonoluln.
Hawaii: 388. (top). also 389. Newark (New Jersey)

News.

Rlit REATION is published monthly except July and
August by the National Recreation Association. a service
organization supported by voluntary contributions. at 8
West Emhth Street. New York It. New York. is on
tile in public libraries and is indexed in the Ruden'
Guide. Subscriptions $4.00 a year. Canadian and for-
cutn subscrt tion rate 34.50. Re—entered as second-class
matter Apri 25. I950. at the Post Oflice in New York.
New York under Act of Maer 3. I879. Acceptance
to: mailing at spectral rate of postage provided for In
Secrion “05. Act 0! October 3. l9”. authorized May
I. 1924. Micrnftlms of Current issues available lini-
vcrsity Microfilms. 313 N. Pint Street. Ann Arbor.
Michigan.

50cc: Reprereurnrirn: Mark Minahan. 185 North “'1-
bath Avenue. Chicago 1. Illinois.

Copyright. 1959. by the
National Recreation Association. Incorporated

emitted at the U.S.A 
* ' tune. I".

' Trade mark registered in U. 5. Patent Oliice.

   

l ovennnn 1959

 

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

C O N T E N T S
G mat-ML FEATURES

A New Day for the Cultural Arts (Editorial)
Siebof! Frieswyk 360

Libcrnl Arts and the Executive

 . . . . ...36l
Mnsic in the Jet Age . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 366
lieercntion To Keep America Strong . .Arthur S. Flemming 370
Today’s Pioneering . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Carnl Lucas 374
Recreation liigbts of Tecn-Agcrs . . . Virginia .llusselmnn 377
Art Comes to Main Street . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Iietty Burtn 380

ADAIINISTHATION

Fringe Areas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Garrctt G. Eppley 369

Two New lee liinks (l’art ll) . . . . . . . . ."arnlrl Van Colt 388

Local and State Developments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 392

Making Cities More Livable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 394

Concession Management . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 395
I'HOGI‘ANI
The Fine Art of l’hnto-grapby . . . . . . : . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361

'Wbat Are Yon Doing About Election Night? . . . . . . . . . . 376

’Tis the Month liefore Christmas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 378

l’ied l’iper in llawaii . . . . . . . . . . . . .Beatrice .‘llf. "me-ell 383

Your Storytelling Corner . . . . . . . . . . . .Eliznbeth Colbert 384

Ex-lioekettes Volunteer . . . . . . . . . . . . .illabcf MacDonald 385

Dig-Ten Footlrall—‘Wheel-ebair Style . . . . . . .Dick Batter 386

Today They lian . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . James R. Champlin 386
REGULAR FEATURES

Things You Sbonlrl Know . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 358

l.etters........... . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . 

Editorinlly Speaking . . . . . . . . .  365

A Reporter's Notebook . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 373

I’ersonnel—lieerention .“I'Inpower . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 396

"old That Linc! . . . . . . . . . W. C. Sutherland 397
lieercatinn Manpower . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 396
Market News . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 398
Classified Advertising  . . . . . .............. 399
Index of Advertisers  399

Books. l'llltpll:(‘l!. liceordings. Magazine Articles . . . . . . . 400
. . . . . . . . . . . . 403

New Publications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

 

 
   
 

IHICATIONAL
HESS
SSOCIATlON

The articles herein printed ore the notes-

0 F Iron 0! the refill". and not a statement at
A M ERICA _ _ . . _ policy of the Notional Intention Association.
359

 

A NEW DAY FURjTHE

CULTURAL
ARTS

360

Sieholt Fricswyk

The “age of anxiety,” an era of soul-searching, and the
Bomb parallel a new emphasis on the cultural arts. Part
of the stimulus undoubtedly derives from various cultural
exchange programs and a keen awareness of the need to
measure up in the eyes of the world.

This continually expanding participation—both active
and passive—in the arts arises, further, from long, slow,
patient efforts of leaders in civic life, educators, benefactors,
and leisure-time planners and doers.

Culture in this country has, hitherto, largely been an im-
ported product. Now, we are a major producer and the
cultural equal of most other countries. Spectacular events
have also taken place that have projected the arts into the
international limelight. A young Texan pianist, Van Cli-
burn, wins a coveted prize in Moscow. Boris Pasternak is
awarded the Nobel Prize for a novel—Dr. Zhivago-——that
could not be printed in Russia but was finally printed in
the United States, via Italy, and proved once again that the
pen is mightier than the sword.

In a world growing more leisure-conscious the question
of what to do with it arises. Should we spend our leisure
frivolously or for a purpose? Should we use it to build a
strongcr people and nation? August Heckscher, speaking
at the 1958 National Recreation Congress, said, “In the
present state of things we must be able to show that recrea-
tional activities makc vital contributions to the common
life, that recreation in work, and work in recreation. provide
the conditions of true happincss, true creativcness. and true
productivity.”

Again, a question must be asked. How? Modern means
of communication have, of course, brought the arts into
millions of homes. Not to the extent that some of us would
like, or the quality we might consider desirable, but, at least
in ways or to an extent not before attained. Perhaps the
future may give us more Waltcr DamrdSches and Leonard
Bernsteins.

Television and radio are one aspect only—the passive,
educational spectator one. Recreation has the more chal-
lenging opportunity in the other—participation. F ortu-
nately, many recreation leaders and departments have had
a long tradition of providing the cultural arts. Music,
dance, drama, and other such activities are an established
part of a well-balanced total program.

The recreation movement must demonstrate its increasing
maturity by showing what can be done with the new leisure,
with our new place in the sun.

The arts, if anything, are creative and are, by their very
nature, the wellspring of re-creative processes. This ven-
turesome, imaginative, creative, forward-looking recreation
is already under way in many places. Is it not conceivable

MR. FRIESWYK, a former National Recreation Association

music specialist, is now back on staff}l as special consultant for
the performing arts. In this capacity, one of his duties Will be
coordinating NRA services with the National Cultural Center.

RECREATION

that the cultural arts will catch on where they now lie dor-
mant? Recreation pe0ple know organization techniques,
how to tap new sources of leadership, and can offer facilities
and equipment and other practical means to get cultural pro-

A great university president, asked for an explanation of
his success, replied, “I am intensely interested.”

Are we “intensely interested” enough to combine our
practical knowledge with the new cultural upsurge and

grams on their feet.

The Fine Art of

really make this a new age of culture in recreation? #

PHOTOGRAPHY

I NCE Tltt: stepchild of the fine arts,

photography has come sharply in-

to focus as a full-fledged member of the
amily. Recreation departments have

much to offer the amateur lensman, not
only in organizing camera clubs and
making facilities available, but in pro-
'iding subject matter and opportunity.
Have you ever had an Open-house cam-

  
   
   
  
  
 
 
  
   
  
 
   
  
 

ra night at your community center and
'nvited camera-club members to shoot
arts and crafts classes in action, asked
hem to rehearsals of drama and music
events, run a park-playground photog-
aphy contest, included photOgraphs in
vour community’s annual art show?
Stimulate your camera clubs to great-
r creative effort. Get your local library
ud museum to book traveling photo-
raphic exhibits. Get your teen-agers to
ter contests. (This month’s cover is
, e of the prize winners in the 1959
odak High School Photography Con-
.t.)
From the Atlantic to the Pacific pho-
wgraphy has come into its own. “Pho-

 
    
  

l

C

cnts are unusually significant.

In view of the controversy over the value of liberal arts
1 training leaders for the space age, the following state-

“Liberal arts and management have a close relationship.

tography in the Fine Arts,” an exhibit
shown at the MetrOpolitan Museum of
Art, New York City, this summer, has
now become part of the museum’s per-
manent photography collection. Dupli-
eate exhibits of these pictures are now
touring the country; one is currently on
view at the Virginia Museum of Fine
Arts, Richmond, Virginia, through No-
vember 22. Included in the exhibit is
Maurice Terrell’s “Water Babies”
shown here (courtesy Look Magazine).

The photography section of Oregon's
recent centennial celebration consisted
of a l49-print exhibition, “This Land—
This Oregon,” now on permanent loan
to the Oregon Historical Society. A
movement there is now afoot for a state-
subsidized program to foster photogra-
phy as a fine art.

During the Oregon centennial cele-
bration a statewide high-school photog-
raphy contest offered a thousand-dol-
lar scholarship for study at a photog-
raphy school. A series of audience-par-
ticipation events included a photogra-

LIBERAL ARTS and the EXECUTIVE

 

 

 

4

Water Babies

phy workshop, a public forum and
lecture on the creative aspects of pho-
tography, and a print clinic based on
the work of Portland photOgraphers. All
these events were held at the Portland
Art Museum.

Most or all of these ideas can be
adapted for use in your community with
the recreation department as the co-
ordinating agency. This is an excellent
way to build up the department’s pic-
ture files, acquire photographs for that
annual report and feature in your local
newSpaper, to lend to banks, merchants
and organizations for public service dis-
plays. And please don’t forget to send
some to RECREATION Magazine. #

An individual may have sufficient knowledge to teach, but
may not be able to transmit that knowledge to others.

“ Jiberal arts aids the manager in understanding peeple

   
 
   
    
  

roperly applied, liberal arts can transpose the entire philos-
hy and character of management.

"Liberal arts provide a man with knowledge and the
ility to apply it. This type of an education perfects a
:. with knowledge and the ability to apply it. This type
an education perfects the man as a man and is not in-
ded to perfect a lawyer, an engineer. or a manager.
“Liberal arts enhance management by equipping a person
handle men. To handle men, a manager must teach them.

vastnan 1959

3‘53 the conditions which affect them. It makes the mana-
ger aware of the moral responsibilities of his functions. It
guides him to other fields than management and broadens
his outlook.

“Consequently, a trend exists whereby experienced mana-
gers and executives are brought together for a period of
instruction and discussion in liberal arts."—[rom “The
Liberal Arts in Allanagcmmt," Charles A. Nelson. Ilarvard

Business Review (.llay-Inne 1953).

36f

Install serve-self
Locker Checking

ELIMINATE LIABILITY

Pools and beaches everywhere are
installing Sentinel Coin-and-Key
Checking Systems. One big reason
for this trend is the freedom from
responsibility for patrons' clothing
and other personal possessions.

Patrons appreciate this service
and are happy to pay for it. No
standing in line. no worry about
valuables. no mixups...greater
privacy. too.

You eliminate checkroom payrolls
and at the same time have the
added income from the lockers . . .
enough to retire the investment in
a few months' operation.

Without obligation get the facts
now.Write for complete information.

. Sumner.

COIN-AND-KEY

OPERATED CHECKING SYSTEMS

THE FLXIBLE COMPANY
LOUDONVILLE, OHIO

"Stationary" racks
In single at double
face units snap-lack
rigidly tagether Io fit
any space at pravide
capacity required.

com and HAT RACKS

Style DJ”. 4-40. Portable Checker Rack (Illustrated)
ls 4 ft. 2 In. lone: holds 40 coats and hats: toes
wherever needed on large. ball-bearlng-swlvel
'casters. Comes wlth or without checks and snap-on
numbers. Strongly welded of square tubular. heavy
gauge and highly embossed turn ture steel Smart
in modern baked finishes. Give itettme servlce -
never sag. ereak or sway. 3 l't.. 4 at 5 ft. unlts avail-
able. as well as other emelent space saving equlp-
ment for every church. school. cammerelal.
industrial and institutional need.

VOGEL-PETERSON CO.

Rt. 83 and Madison St. ' Elmhurst, III.

362 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

 

  

 

 Readers! You are invited to send letters for this page
to Editor, RECREATION, 8 West Eighth Street, New
York 1 1—50 that your ideas, opinions and attitudes
may be exchanged with others on the wide range of
subjects of concern to us all. Here is your chance to
agree or disagree with the authors of our articles.
Keep fetters brief—not more than 250 words.

There’s Hope
Sirs:

Hurrah! Childhood may yet be re-
stored! A most hopeful sign was “Let’s
De-SOpIIisticate” in the September REC-
HEATION.

For too long, a prosperous society
has ovcrindulgcd its young with “nylon,
neon. and chrome” and with activities
formerly reserved for adult society.
This adultification of our youth has re-
snlted in a jaded generation of sixteen-
year-olds who have tasted and tired of
everything and whose search for newer
thrills has only brought tragedy into
their lives. It is imperative that we re-
store vigor and simplicity to childhood.
Thank you, Joseph E. Curtis, for show-
ing wisdom and leadership in this
direction.

Mas. VIRGINIA R. OFFER, Lynbrook,
New York.

New Avenue
Sirs:

It is indeed a great pleasure to find
such a vivid report on our films (“Lis-
tening and Viewing."9 October 1959) in
the beautiful context of a publication
such as yours. This is a somewhat novel
publicity approach to the work done by
the Children’s Fund at large, and I feel
sure that it will open up new avenues
for us to prospect in behalf of “all the
world’s children.” Your generous sup-
port is most heartily appreciated.

VICTOR DE KEYSERLING, Dircctor of

Publicity, U. 5. Committee for

U NIC HF , United Nations, New York.

It’s Standardized
Sirs:

According to figures shown in The
National Recreation Association 1955
Yearbook, 1.130 cities reported table
tennis as a part of the municipal recre-
ation program, 0f the 1,130 cities, 415
indicated on their reports the number
of participants, which totaled 255,524.

I should be willing to wager that. of
this imposing number. not one In a

—The Editors.

thousand is aware of! the fact that this
sport, one of the greatest of the carry-l
over sports, is played internationally
and has a set of rules by which it is
played. Specifically, there is such a
thing as a “legal serve” and now a
“standardized” paddle has been ruled
upon. Who ever heard of the “live-ball-
bat rule”? Well, it exists! There’s just
one way of calling the score. There are
dress requirements for sanctioned tour-
nament play. There are organized com- I
petitive programs that can be set up in
departments of recreation under the
guidance of the United States Table
Tennis Association.

It is my sincere hope that the depart-
ments of public recreation will take ad-
vantage of the services of the USTTA
so players will enjoy the game to its
fullest, Public recreation will really be
giving a service to its citizens by pro-
viding a game that knows no age limit.

LILLIAN C. GUYER, V icc President,

United States Table Tennis Associa

tion, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

  
   
 
   
   
    
 
  
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
  

More Information, Please

Sirs:
Thank you very much for the space
given to the Sidney Hillman Recreatio
Center in the September issue of REC
REATION (page 268). I am sure it wil
interest you to know that we have re
eeived many letters requesting addi
tional information about our ne\
center.
LEOXORA SOLOMON. Director, Sid ne'
Hif’man Recreation Ccntcr, Philadcl
pitia, Pennsylvania.

Traveling Roller Skates
Sirs:

Our traveling roller-skating pr
gram, which we inaugurated sever
years ago. has been successful hecaus
the skating is done indoors and we u.
plastic and wooden wheels. 0f cours
“'e have a full-time person who kee
the skates in repair. (See “Travefi

Recanmo

Roller Skating Rinks,” RECREATION,
November, 19.56, page 436.)

We have six traveling units and each
visits about six playgrounds a week.
“1850 traveling roller rinks, from our
experience, seem to create greater inter-
est than the outdoor skating program.

llau'n Rommun. Director of Spec-

ial Events, Department of Recreation
and Parks, Los Angeles, California.

Their Natural Playgrounds

This letter appeared recently itt the
Cincinnati l’ost antl Times-Star and is
reprinted with permission.

I think a composition by one of my
seventh grade students, Dick Gabelman,
portrays vividly the silent heartaches of
many boys and girls who must helplessly
watch their natural playgrounds torn up
to make room for highways, viaducts,
and new subdivisions.

Dick’s composition. “What I \Vant
Most in the World Right Now,” said:

“i want a deed to the woods in the
back of onr house. I want this because
it’s going to be torn up this summer and
honses built there. For four years l’ve
roamed its blackberry trails and climbed
its tall trees. If I could get this, they
wouldn’t build any houses there, that’s
for sure. Every summer we build a
treehouse or some kind of log house in
it, or we camp out under the tall oaks
and maples.”

We incessantly build. build. build. for
our children. Will we ever open our
eyes to see that often we thwart our
purpose by tearing down what God al-
ready has built there for them?

SISTER va GRACE. St.
School.

Vivian

Senior Citizen Projects
Sirs:

ln observance of Senior Citizens
Month [May], members of the Los
Catos-Saratoga Senior Citizens con-
ducted a charm course. which culmin-
ated in May with a “Favorite Costume
Fashion Show and Tea.” The choral
group presented a program and the
seniors modeled their favorite cos-
tmnes.

A conference discussed the senior
citizen’s responsibility to the commun-
ity and the community’s responsibility
to him. A representative from the state
welfare department spoke at the confer-
ence.

“A l’aneake Breakfast.” held the end
+ of May, was a fund-raising proiect. as
well as a service to the community and
a “get acquainted” project.

STELLA D1 Genoxmo, Senior Citi-

zens Director, Los - Gates - Saratoga

District Recreation Department, Los

Cams, California.
H

Novas! mm 1959

Icosahedrun construction

alt-

gr.
#6

 

means:

Maximum carcass llle
Maximum cover wear
Complete structural

uniformity

Olllclal performance
for the life of the hall

When writing to our advertisers pleam mention chnm'nox.

        
 
         
         
       
   
   

com amt moms c0.

30'. E. rm STREET

 
 

Whirl-rind
Cotton Candy
Machino

  

rap A lot “'le
Popcorn Sno-Konotto
:llogtga  tco Shower

$5,000 ANNUAL PROFIT! “‘°"°

Hundreds of Recreation Departments own one or more of
these profit-making machines. Refreshments belong in all
Accommodate the Public’s desires and
moire huge profits in the process. Write for complete catalog

 

Recreation Facilities.

and detailed brochures on how YOUR Department can easily
get Thousands of dollars every year.

CI'H'CINIHA'I’I 2, GI!"

 

11"‘0‘t‘o .

‘  Iwiilos D's.

Q

/

i'co-sa-he'dron a perfectly symmetrical
polyhedron possessing the ultimate number of
poles that can be placed on a sphere.

Right now...a battery of fully-automated. electronically-
controlled. high precision machines are placing a
predetermined number of perfect icosahcdron patterns to form
the carcass of every new Voit ball.

Combining the first manufacturing method to utilize
fundamental mathematics...a new. longest-wearing
composition covcr...and a continuous tcsting program to
provc the results—Voit has produced the strongest. most
perfectly balanced balls ever built.

It's an amazing story. Ask your Voit salcs mprcscntativc
for complete. specific details.

ya] @

NEW YORK 11 - CHICAGO ii - [OS ANGELES ii

 

363

r.

. A Bi 16 V a i
C 31 1 f0 11 e Announces... 5...: °”° a“ ‘ °“
Three of us left New York City on
W

lggrlldayuilully 2(7), and headed for Sun
a ey, I a 0. ur bicycles had been
Emulator @uarantee

on STROBESELECTOR MOTOR

   
 

taken apart and packed in the luggage
carrier with skates and camping equip-
ment. In Wisconsin we noticed two
groups of cross-country cyclists. In Eu-
rope the previous summer we had not-
ed thousands of bicyclists touring eve-
rywhere from Norway to Italy.

After we arrived at Sun Valley, we
obtained a room in the Skaters Chalet
at two dollars per person per night. Bi-
cycles were assembled and skates pol-
ished and sharpened for the coming ac-
tivities. There are several miles of safe
cycle paths in the valley. The new en-
larged Olympic-size ice rink was avail-
able for skating all summer from 5 A.M.
. to midnight.
callfone CORPORATION Dept. R-3 1020 N. La Brca Ave. - Hollywood 33, Calif.  Our typical program for the weeks at

5 q .
.. un Valley started at 6 A.M. and finished
5}  A A A A A A r... A A 7...,  7,, (.- . .
' * ""‘ ""“ "‘ ‘* ' " u ’ d“ about 10 P.M. Tl‘llS Included a before-

breakfast bicycle run to Haley or to the

K ’  gawtooth National Forest ' ' '
.. . - primitive
NEW AND IMPROVED '   area (this warm-up ride was 20-25
R  N 9 S H a & R . with these oIIn-llmc favorite miles)1;fi plain am! raCigg _ Skating;
sc 100 r t
DRY “NE MARKERS   gu e prac1ce an Ice ance

practice sessions; a trout dinner; and
5 DIFFERENT MODELS d t, ' h hockey practice or a hockey game.
From 20#Fto 1001: Capacity ""1 ° " 2m“? i“ f" Aflcr the weeks at Sun Valley we
533:1“ “"3": H Qw‘m” °" °' "m" headed for Yellowstone and arrived
pacify. 2' x 2" slides 5oé/5|ide there the night the earthquake h1t West
3a,,» ‘ 4 ‘ I“mm. Loo/slide Yellowstone. We were forced to flee
the park and cancel our prOposed tour
wam ton rarowou: s

Adlusloblc Control on  there.
Handle. ' Our next stopover was at Mackinac

saves TIME AND 5   Island in Michigan. We rented Schwinn
MATERIAL 42 w", “lb 5"", ‘ tandem and single bicycles and enjoyed
a two-day tour of the island. No motors
are pcrmitted on Mackinac and cycling
is just wonderful. Three cycle stands
rent five hundred bicycles almost evcry
day. It was a great thrill to ring the bi-
cycle bell and have the horse traffic
move over to let you pedal by at ten to

G0 I fifteen miles an hour. '
We finished the vacation at the Thou-

Due to the unexcelled performance of the Califone STROBE-
SELECTOR MOTOR used in all Califone variable speed phono-

graphs ( except the Model 1 2M V), we are announcing the extension
of the present material guarantee from the conventional 90-day to
a TWO YEAR guarantee on this motor.

At the same time, all other parts on all Califones are now factory

guaranteed for a period of ONE YEAR, except for Tubes, Cartridges
and Needles. These latter items will continue to have the 90-day

factory guarantee.

This warranty shall take ehect January I , 1959. Therefore, any
units for which warranty cards have been returned to us since that
date will be honored on the above basis. The new warranty is valid
Q provided the warranty card is dated after January I , I 959.

at «.5.»an nos-no.

,‘V

 \uJ‘ T Vb m

 

 

Shoitcr In Hopper to:
Conslont Flow.

 

 

Send to Dept. R {or booklet on tour orhcr mode-ts "(w Yuk 36 N Y
H. 8- R. MFG. CO.. LOS ANGELES 34. CALIF i

 

 

JUdson 2.1926 l

 

Now you can

sand Islands but the narrow roads and
heavy traffic made cycling both danger-
ous and unpleasant.

we all lost several pounds on this
grand vacation tour.

Rouse C. GEIST, College Skating

Club, New York City.

where the events
take place

L. a ...and be heard!
WENGER PORTABLE BANDWAGON

The Mobile Combination Band Stand
and Outdoor Stage

Ideal for use at music events. rallies. acts. demonstra-
tions. and for speakers. the chgcr Bandwagon pro-

TO INSURE EXPEDITIOUS HANDLING AND
PROMPT DELIVERY OF All. MAIL DURING
THE CHRISTMAS HOLIDAY SEASON—
MAII. EARLYI—AND—FOLLOW THE
"A.B.C.'s” OF GOOD MAILING HABITS!

ll

 
   

 

vidca comfortable quarters for performers. plus assuring ,k "A" pas|a| denvery zone number he|ps
resonance and volume for the audience. At site. the [6 l speed your mom
\Vengcr Bandwagon opens in minutes into a generous   co. "B" . . I d ' dd
stage or outdoor theater. or a complete. scicntifically  Cerium '0 "it" 3 Your '9 “m a '3“
designed muslc shell for band. orchestra. or chorus.  0" 0” 'e'mrs 00d POCI‘OQGSI
After event. It folds quickly into a handsome. complctcly "C" that the delivery address is correct and
enclosed road trailer with ample locked storage space for owaroNNa . MINNESOTA complelel
chairs. stands. Instruments. or accessory equipment. May 1." r _ AND—
bc and Indoors. tooSIenfvferry co:Te::'t¢Tet:i'II: :nadus orcifications or ask for MA“ EARLY IN THE DAY—

° '° " p ' IT'S ms BETTER WAY!

 

a free demonstration. No obligation. of course.

 

vi n-Iv- When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. RECREATION

 

Editorially Speaking

Dorothy Donaldson

 

Recreation in Limited Spaces

What do you do for fun when you're
ubmerged—in the depths of the ocean
for at least an admitted sixty days?
hat was one of the problems the Navy
need when it started to build our rec-
rd«shattering atomic submarines. Be-
ause of space limitations, the recrea-
ion area had to be small—but it also
. d to be functional, relaxing, and com-
lete as man could build.

Edmund M. Waller, head of the rec-
cation and Physical Fitness Branch,
epartmcnt of the Navy. Washington,
). C.. told 41st National Recreation
ongress delegates all about the pecu-
'ar problems of recreation in atomic
ubma-rines and how the Navy resolved
hem. and he's going to amplify these
emarks for a two-part article in REC-
"EATIOX. Part One will appear in an
rly issue—probably in January.

An interesting aspect of Mr. Waller’s
cmarks is that our astronauts are going
0 face pretty much the same problems
‘hen they take oil in space. They, too,
'ill have to stay in a restricted area for
extended period of time. What hap-
r us?

For one thing, whodunits and comic
ooks lose their appeal in a very short
ime. The men find their tastes change
they want meatier stuff and start to
rowse in the library for heavier read-
g. For instance, an old chief who
ked whodunits took twelve of them
board the Seawolf before a record
uise but never read half of them. In-
d he got a two-volume history of
- urope in the ship’s library and finished

 
  
  
   
  
 

   
  
 
  
  

   
   
  
  

   
    
   
   
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
  

Another oddity is the desire for color.
n though the Naxy painted the walls
the Sea-wolf in many different colors,
men were still “color starved.”
' ey wanted color movies. stereopticon
es. lots of books and magazines with
or plates.

_he first article in this exciting series
I deal with the Navy’s original plans

r recreation in atomic submarines.

resume 1939

The second will deal with the problems
that came up after the equipment and
materials were put to use. You won’t
want to miss a word of either of Mr.
Waller’s articles.

The “Organizational Child”

Are the leaders and parents of today
so eager to give their children a well-
roundcd life of play and culture that
there is a tendency to overorganize
them? Reports, magazine and news-
paper articles seem to indicate, more
and more, that this is the case. Mrs.
Joseph W. Scott of a typical suburban
family in New Jersey. for instance, re-
eently stated. in an interview in the New
York Ilerald Tribune, that her daugh-
ter's schedule calls for an activity every
afternoon—ballet. Bible school, acro-
batic dancing, Brownies, and choir
practice. Pamela is nine. Finally she
complained to her mother, “l have no
time to see friends!” What Mrs. Scott
calls the “organizational child” had
resulted—changes in her daughter’s
schedule were in order.

Do we, as recreation leaders, have a
tendency to add to this overcrowding of
the schedules of the children who come
to our centers and playgrounds? lt
might be well to take a careful look at
our programs with this possibility in
mind.

Groans from Suburbia

Recreation facilities in most subur-
ban areas today are groaning with an
overload—because of a steady flow of
city people in search of a place for out-
door play. A shrinkage of open spaces
within the city limits is occurring on the
one hand, while, on the other, the urge
to get out of doors for outdoor play is
growing stronger in urban and subur-
ban pcople. ln some instances, such as
in Westelwster County, New York, it
has been necessary to establish ha rd and
set policies to limit the use of park and
beach facilities to local residents only.
Those long restricted to such use are

further imposing measures to discour-
age local people from bringing outsider
"guests."

This situation re-cmphasizes the ne-
cessity of taking stock of the critical
shortage of play space in metropolitan
areas now, the urgent need for city buy-
ers to acquire any remaining vacant
lots at once, and the wisdom of planning
ahead—for the future.

ls Leisure Positive?

Work. implies a certain
weight and a certain involvement of the
personality, plays a basic part in the
equilibrium of the individual, his inscr-
tion in the social environment, his phy-
sical and mental health. Throughout
history it has played this part in the
most varied social and cultural settings
and has taken on very different mean-
ings for those who performed it. Seen
from this angle. will not the reduction
of the proportion of work in human life,

C

when It

'and the gradual abolition of purely

manual labour as a result of automa-
tion, have very harmful repercussions?
C on activities other than work, and par-
ticularly spare-time activities, replace
work and, from the psychological point
of view, talce over the part it played with
respect to personality? Does the trans-
ferenee of the center of personal activity
and achievement to leisure activities en-
sure equivalent advantages and psycho-
logical virtues comparable to those of
vocational work? What is going to hap-
pen when, little by little, increasing
numbers of men find themselves de-
prived of ‘work,’ in the traditional
sense? Can leisure activities give bal-
anee to an individual’s whole life, to
his personal training and development
. . .?—Csoaces Fmamusx in “Work
and Play in the Machine Age,” Way
Forum (No. 31, March 1959).

Leisure is what you make it. It
may be your greatest blessing or
your greatest curse. You determine
its quality, and its quality determines

you. In the OM era. the job deter-
mined the worker. la the new era,
leisure determines the mam—WM;
Tt-IR l3. l’lTKtx.

 

365

 

MUSIC IN THE JET AGE

"any benefits accrue from making
music a part of our lives . . .

 

The blue-denim set makes music in ' it
Maniton'oc, Wisconsin. Today, more Ameri- '
cans play musical instruments than ever before.

30o RECREATION

,- orer-sixty set can sharp a flat
h the best of ’em.’ What's a
l wrinkles to a triangle player?

one AND mom: peoplc are rcaliz-

[M ing music has a place and func-

tion in their livcs. This is a

part of a compensating return to the

leisurely. cultural arts, in a day of auto-
mation. speed, and jet propulsion.

Music edueation is flourishing all

over the country, in the conviction that

   
  
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
   
   
 
   
 

music as onc of the arts, adds greatly
to the quality of living. Edwin M.
Steekel. director emeritus of Oglebay
Institute, Wheeling, \Vest Virginia,
writcs. “Formerly apart from everyday
ifc. music is now a part of everyday life.
ts unique accessibility is one of the out-
anding characteristics of our day. The
'o'rld's finest music and the world’s
mest artists are available to everyone,
'erywhcre, thanks to radio, improved
ecordings, and television. There is no
xcuse today for anyone’s failing to he-
omc familiar with the world’s greatcst
music. it is said that. ‘a man should
r a little music, read a little poetry,
ee a line picture, each day of his life,
11 order that worldly carcs may not

liliterate the sense of the beautiful

 

~i ovemeen 1959

which God has implanted in the human
soul.’ ”

Making music afl'ords a means of self-
expression, a balance for emotions and a
relcasc from tension, according to scien-
tific and psychological findings gather-
ed by the American Music Conference.

in regard to actual participation in
the performance. of music, the Ath
estimates the number of amateurs play-
ing musical instruments in the United
States rose from 14,300,000 in 1936 to
28,500,000 in 1957. More than 8,000,-
000 children are now playing instru-
ments and receiving instruction, com-
pared with only 2,500,000 in 1947.

Psychologists who have concerned
themselves recently with music’s influ-
ence now know of its general efl'cctive-
ness in molding the moods and control-
ling the emotions of the person who ac-
tually plays an instrument. Dr. Ralph
Hahas suggests marches and polkas to
counteract the blues. Monotony can be
cured by music with a strong beat. Tests
made by Dr. Charles Diserens indicate
that sprightly music not only can reduce

 

All children are inherently musical.
New upsurge in music has taken it out
of esoteric realm into the lives of
millions of youngsters—and olrlsters.

fatigue but can increase an individual’s
strength. Experiments conducted by Dr.
Alexander (iapurso, director of the
school of music at the linivcrsity of
Syracuse, show that zestful. enthusiastic
and exultant composition can perpet-
uate or express a joyful, stimulated
mood and that eloquent, tender, scrcue.
graceful, and somber music fits into a
sentimental, nostalgic mood. The Penn-
sylvania Medical Society reports that
“music has a special place in promoting

i 'ever underestimate the power of an egghead.’ Here, Dr. Otto Ficlr, an English professor, shon's he’s hip.

II-

367

a sense of well-being among nervous
and anxious people.” Marching music
has always been an action motivator
and morale builder for young men at
arms.

So influential is music considered to
be that President Eisenhower has said,
“Music is a universal language which
shall one day unite all nations of the
world.”

The lasting emotional effects of music
were noticed by Richard Fencl, Chicago
Park District traflic engineer, in the
comparative behavior of motorists re-
turning from a football game and from
a music festival. Football fans were
in an aggressive, if not belligerent,
mood after four quarters with vicar-
iously “hitting that linc” along with the
football team. Festival audicnces, on
the other hand, wcre in a relaxed, pleas-
ant mood following thc musical pro-
gram and their driving rellectcd this
soothed attitude.

Floyd S. Bordsen, industrial psychol-
Ogist with Sadlcr and Associates, a
Chicago personnel management firm,
offers music as a remcdy for business-
induced tension. “Conquering worry is
a matter of thrusting it aside with an-
othcr interest,” Bordsen says. “Playing
soothing and relaxing music offers a
change of pace for the individual and
occupies his mind with activity unrc-
lated to the husiness routine.” The
amateur musician finds a rcspite from
evcryday problems by occupying his
mind with music. Thc necessary mental
effort required to read and translate the
written note into harmonic sounds pro-
vides an enforccd vacation from nervc-
tightening problcms.

Called a “jet-age pacifier” by Dr.
Capurso, music making is becoming in-
creasingly popular not only with busi-
ness executives, but also with house-
wives, professional people, white-collar
workers, and others seeking a creative
outlet for their tensions.

The dedication and imagination de-
manded by the playing of a musical in-
strument challenge the mind. By suc-
cessfully meeting the standards imposed
by music, the capacity for abstract

thinking, the ability to concentrate, and
attention span can be develOped. The
fun and sense of accomplishment in cre-
ating music result in feelings of satis-
faction and self-confidence that stimu-
late continued mental endeavor.

Senior Citizens Find Music

The secret of youth has been dis-
covered in music by the over-sixty set.
Amateur musicians of grandmother and
grandfather vintage are banding to-
gether in music organizations all over
the country to find companionship, fun,
and renewed interest in life. Pride in
their new accomplishments has dictated
a new restriction for many musical
groups—no youngsters allowed, young-

 

sters usually being dcfined as those un-
der sixty.

This is the case in the Sirovich Day
Center orchestra in New York City.
About cight years ago, aftcr discover-
ing a number of musicians in their
crowd, mcmbers of the ccntcr formed
an unusually capable orchestra, limit-
ing its membership to those ovcr sixty.
Thcsc amatcur instrUmentalists found
that thcy not only had a lot of fun
making music togctllcr, but that their
music was quite entertaining. Soon
they were making radio and television
appearances in their home towns where
thcir audiences also concurrcd in this
opinion. The orchestra has recruited
its musicians from all levels of profi-
ciency; some had never touched a musi-
cal instrument hefore and others were
old vaudevillians and bandsmen.

The music story from the Evanston,

 

lllinois, Senior Citizen Center is simi-
lar. When the visitors began discussing
their interests it became obvious that

music ranked high. Now musical instru-

ments accompany the elder Evanston-
ians to their weekly meetings and im-
promptu ensembles inevitably get under
way.

Grandmothers in Albany, California,
are not content with the music and musi-
cal knowledge of their younger days;
they are diligently pursuing jazz, hot
and cool, in an adult education class.
Putting them in the know about the
techniques of the solid piano are local
instructors and visiting lecturers such
as Dave Brubeck.

A community music center in San
Francisco, California, is giving other
West Coast grandparents a chance to
indulge in musical activity. Senior
members of the center study voice and
a variety of musical instrumcnts. One
student, who will admit only to being
“over fifty,” thinks music “is wonderful
for old people. It gives them an interest
in life.”

Two old gentlemen in Kansas devote
their cntirc leisure time to music. Ed
M. Horn of Hanston, Kansas, and his
close friend, Herbert Brown, not only
play musical instruments but make them
as well. Their handcraft talents havc
produccd banjos, mandolins. violins,
and guitars, and a Couple of experi-
mental instruments. The two men, with
three othcr friends, form “The Melody
Five” that plays for community dances
and private jam sessions.

A rhythm band in Chicago. made up
of somc thirty members of a golden age
club, was begun eleven years ago by
sevcnty-eight-year-old engineer Adolph
Witte. Now pushing ninety, the rhythm
band organizer is still an active drum-
mer in the band, provides party enter-
tainment, and goes on a ten-day sum-
mer camping spree in Wisconsin.

Music has given these older people
a new lease on life; it has given them
something new to learn, and. along with
it, a genuine feeling of accomplishment

so necessary to the nurturing of the hu-

man spirit. i."

I i

T oday, creative fulfillment is as important to man’s wen-being and happiness as his need for better phys-
ical health was fifty years ago.——JOHN D. ROCKEFELLER BB

368

RECREATION

   
 
    
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
    
  

Garrett C. Eppley

ing the people in their fringe areas to depend on

them for their opportunities for recreation? When
municipal park and recreation departments provide recre-
atiou for and in fringe areas without cost to those areas, are
they impeding the progress of recreation?

To determine the extent to which departments render re-
creation services to their fringe areas, Lhe‘writer mailed
questionnaires to a cross-section of park and recreation ex-
ecutives in the six states of Minnesota, Wisconsin, Illinois,
Michigan, Indiana, and Ohio. Forty-two executives re-
sponded to the inquiry. Tabulations of the replies are as
follows:

3. RH MUNtCtmI. park and recreation departments caus-

WE PROVIDE IN FRINGE AREAS Yes No

1. Community center programs 8 l 31
2. Supervised playgrounds ll 30
3. Special activities or programs for
organizations 14 l 22
4. Guidance in program planning, to
a—governmcntal agencies 31 3
b—voluntary agencies 29 5
e—private groups 30 6
5. Leadership to fringe areas for full
or partial pay 6 30
6. Areas primarily for people living in
fringe areas 3 35
7. Recreation equipment for fringe areas 11 30
8. Guidance in facility planning or
development, to
a—ageneies or organizations 30 7
b—private groups 31 ll
9. Family rates
a—for golf or swimming to the local
residents 20 21
b—to residents of the fringe areas 14 20
Miscellaneous
1. We charge a greater fee to persons
living in the fringe area for use of facil-
ities for people living within the eity
or park distriet 15 23
2. We a—break even 7 10
b—make a profit 1
3. We have noticed an unusual growth in
the number of private recreation faeil-
ities being established in fringe areas 8 26
4. We feel our department should render
recreation serviees to fringe areas 22 15

Executives were requested to list activities or facilities for
which residents of the fringe areas were charged different
rates than local residents and to list activities and facilities
from which residents of the fringe areas were barred. Only
a few executives listed activities or facilities under these two
te-gorics. Onc city in a metropolitan area bars nonresi-
cuts from use of its playgrounds, community centers, and
'wimming pools. It will grant no permits for picnic-king to

 

"U
x
O
1
r:
U}
in
O
W
m
a
"U
I"
I”?
-<
a
G
:3"-
S
2‘.
E
:3
s.
H
2"
N
5%.
7::
23
W
H
3
Q
:3
H
s.
"I
Q
n
I

realion. Indiana University. Bfoominglon.

’ovaxl BER 1959

 

A questionnaire provides some answers.

FRINGE AREA PROBLEMS

nonresidents. Some cities give no family rates to nonresi-
dents for golf and swimming. One city charges a parking
fee for out-ofostate cars.

The major reason given for differentiating between local

   
   
 

residents and nonresidents is lack of facilities.

ln answer to the question, “To what do you attri to the
growth of private recreation facilities?,” several . ecutivcs
said it was caused by a lack of public facilities ' the fringe
areas. Other reasons given were “the desire t belong and
the desire for better faciiities.” Two executives felt that the
growth was in part due to the desire of some groups to main-
tain a segregation of races. I, myself, feel that the failure of
govermucnt to provide adequate park and recreation facili-
ties, especially in our fringe areas, is accelerating the estab-
lislnnent of private clubs and facilities. These clubs and
facilities draw their memberships and participants largely
from the middle and upper economic classes. If this trend
continues, park and recreation departments may find the
support of these people for the park and recreation programs
and budgets very difficult to obtain. Though I would not
condemn the establishment of private clubs and facilities,
I question the place of some of them in a democracy.

A vast percentage of our cities has acquired very little
park acreage since 1930. The acquisition of park and re-
creation areas in our fringe areas has lagged far behind the
rapid growth of population in those areas. The National
Recreation Association discovered that whereas forty-two
percent of the acreage for out-of-city parks for cities of fifty
thousand population and over was acquired during the dec-
ade preceding 1930, only sevcntecn percent of the total
acreage was acquired from 19-10 to 1957, when the popula-
tion growth in those areas was greatest. The acquisition of
open space in our fringe areas is rapidly becoming either
too costly to purchase or not available for purchase. Many
of our park and recreation departments are having great
difficulty in holding on to their present park acreage.

It is encouraging to note that there are exceptions to this
situation. For instance, Dallas, Texas, in six years (1952-
1958) acquired 2,214 acres, a gain of forty percent in its
park acreage. The Forest Preserve of Cook County, lllinois,
the county in which the city of Chicago is located. increased
its acreage from 37,899 acres in 1950, to 45.230 acres in
1959. Iowa is attempting to provide park acreage outside
the city boundaries by establishing county park (conserva-
tion) boards. Fifty counties have established such boards
within the last three years.

The recreation needs of the people living in the fringe
areas cannot be solved until the people living in those areas
assume their share of the cost of adequate facilities and
programs. They are not likely to assume their share of this

(Continued on page 401)
369

 

  
   

RECREATION
TO KEEP

AMERICA STRONG

Tue OPPORTUNITY or participating

in this forty-first National Recre-
ation Congress means a great deal to
me. There is no question at all but that
the organizations here-represented are
playing a major part in making and
keeping America strong. This is an ob-
jective we must keep uppermost in our
thinking, in the light of the demands
that are being placed on our human resources by a rapidly
changing and complex world.

 

A. S. Flemming

The federal govermnent is recognizing the importance
of the activities to which you, as leaders in recreation, have
dedicated your lives.

You are all acquainted, of course, with the work of the
President‘s Council on Youth Fitness. There is also func-
tioning, at the present time, the commission headed by Mr.
Laurance Rockefeller, the Outdoor Recreation Resources
Commission. This commission is going to produce a report
that will provide us with leadership in this area which will
be meaningful for many years to come.

Of course, recreation will play a major part in the con-
siderations of the White House Conference on Children
and Youth, too, and a major part in the White House Con-
ference on the Aging. We are now planning for the latter,
which is to he held in January 1961 under the authority
of a law passed by the Congress.

Also. the Department of Health, Education and Welfare,
a department that is oftentimes refcrred to as the depart-
ment of the people, is vitally interested in the role that
recreation plays in making it possible for each human being
to realize his highest potential. In other words, there is no
question in our minds within the Department of Health,
Education and Welfare but that the field of recreation
should be an integral part of the programs and services of
our department.

l approach my discussion with you this morning in the
light of three basic concepts of recreation: that recreation
is a means of life enrichment and contributes to the full de-

370

velopment of the human personality; that recreation offers
satisfying and constructive employment of one’s talents, in-
terest, and energy, while enlarging one’s capacity for further
expression of these qualities; and, finally, that recreation is
a basic lnnnan need which is met only as the individual rec-
ognizes its intrinsic satisfaction and participates in it on a
voluntary basis.

ln the light of these, there are some things that the fed-
eral government can do in an effort to strengthen the na-
tion’s total program in the field of recreation.

Government Stake in Reereation

First of all, we must make sure of the fact that those as-
sociated with the federal government, and particularly with
programs in the fields of health, education, and welfare,
recognize the part that recreation either is playing or should
play in helping us to achieve national objectives in these
fields: 1) There is no question at all, of course, that recre-
ation has a very important role to play in the preservation
and promotion of physical and mental health, and in the
prevention, care, and treatment of disease; that is why the
U. 5. Public Health Service of our department has a vital
stake in developments in the field of recreation.

2) Periods of recreation can be utilized in such a man-
ner as to help our nation achieve its educational objectives.
In a very real sense, a sound program in the field of recre-
ation is also a sound educational prOgram, and likewise, a
sound educational program must include a sound program
in the field of recreation. Recreation programs, for exam-
ple, provide opportunities for developing a deeper under-
standing of the humanities. That is why all who are asso-
ciated with the Office of Education of our department have
a real stake in the recreation movement.

3) Recreation has proved and will continue to prove to
be of invaluable assistance to those who are participating
actively in our federal-state program of vocational rehabili-
tation. In my judgment this is one of the most exciting pro-
grams in which our nation is engaged. It is a program that

RECREATION

The Secretary of the U. S.
Department of Health, Education
and Welfare, in an address to

the 4+lst National Recreation
Congress, offers to help in-
terested agencies determine

the role of our federal govern-
ment in the field of recreation.

Arthur S. Flemming

rcplaccs despair with hope. The motto of our department
is “Hope, the anchor of life,” and this program of voca-
tional rehabilitation symbolizes that motto in a very sig-
nificant manner. Our office recognizes the fact that it has
a great stake in the recreation movement throughout our
nauon.

4) We are very much aware of the contribution that those
who are trained in recreation can make to the strengthen-
ing of our welfare programs among all age groups. Right
now, our attention as a nation is being focused on the prob-
lem of juvenile delinquency. All over the nation there seems
to be a dcsire to find quick, overnight remedies. Actually,
juvenile delinquency is the result of our failure to provide
adequate and equal opportunities for education, including
recreation. There are no short cuts in dealing with this
prohlcm. We will continue to he faced with it unless we
are willing to travel down the long, hard road of providing
such opportunities without regard to race, color, or creed,
and we will never travel down that long, hard road until
we strengthen the spiritual foundations of our nation.

I know those who are engaged in the recreation movement
have made, are making, and will continue to make a major
contribution in dealing with this particular problem in the
field of welfare, just as you have made and are making and
will continue to make a contribution to many other proh-
lems in the field of welfare. This is why the Social Security
Administration of our department has a real stake in the
recreation movement. But not only is this true of our de-
partment; it is also true of all the other departments of the
government that have a role to play in this field.

In the second place, we must develop policy objectives
for the federal government in the field of recreation. In
1951, the Federal Inter-Agency Committee on Recreation
prepared a recommended general policy of the federal gov-
ermuent relative to public recreation. It is my understand-
ing that no action has been taken on this recommendation.
I personally intend to do whatever I can do to obtain action
on this recommendation. It may not be possible to accept
all of the proposals. It is possible, however, to develop

Novas-1 am 1959

a federal policy in this area which will be accepted t0p-
side and which can be used as a guide by all of the agen-
cies of the federal government that share rcsponsihility for
recreational activity. This is long past due, and unless an
overall guide of this nature is developed, the federal gov-
ernment is almost sure to deal with this all-important area
in a hit-or-miss manner. This, we just can’t afford to do
if we are to utilize our human resources in an intelligent
manner.

In the third place—and now I am not just talking about
the federal government, but I am talking ahout government
at all levels. and about private groups that are playing such
a major role in the recreation area—we must obtain agree-
ment as to what constitutes a fair shaic of responsibility
on the part of federal, state, and local governments as well
as private groups, if we are to take full advantage of the
opportunities that confront us as a nation in the field of
recreation.

Division of Responsibilities

The Federal Inter-Agency Committee on Recreation, in
its 1951 report, suggested the following division of rcspon-
sibilitics. They suggested 1) that it is the responsibility of
communities to provide recreation areas, facilities, and
services to the people within their political boundaries,
through private and public agencies; 2) that the state gov-
ernment have the responsibility to assist the communities
by enacting adequate enabling laws, by providing advisory
and information services, and by providing such comple-
mentary recreation areas, facilities, and services through-
out the state as may be needed; 3) that it is the responsi-
bility of the federal govermncnt to develop, conserve, and
facilitate the development of the recreation resources on the
federally owned land, and in coOperation with the states and
localities, to complement these programs in the effort to
meet the overall recreation needs of the country in an in-
tegrated fashion.

The federal government should take the lead in bringing
together representatives of government at all levels. repre-
scntativcs of the recreation movement as it exists in this
country today, in an effort to see whether we can reach
agreement on the division of responsibility between gov-
ernment at all levels and private groups.

As a layman in this area, my first reaction to these three
statements is simply this: the responsibility of the private
groups in this particular area is not identified as it should
be. But I am convinced of the fact that if a group of per-
sons who are professionals in this area came together. along
with representative citizens, that it would be possible to
agree on what does constitute a fair share of resjmnsibility
on the part of government at all levels and on the part of
private gronps. If we could reach such an agreement, our
programs in recreation would move forward in a much
more dynamic manner than will otherwise be the case.

If we can reach agreement on fair shares of responsibil-
ity, it will make it much easier to reach agreement on the
investment of funds that should be made at these three levels.
Actually, agreement should be reached on this division of
rcsponsihility before a federal policy can be developed, and

371

I want to stress this. The kind of division of responsibility
I am talking about cannot be imposed on the nation; it must
come out of the kind of discussions to which I have referred.

In the fourth place, effective means must be provided for
coordinating the various activities of the federal govern-
ment in the field of recreation, and I am the first to admit
that those means do not exist at the present time. Sugges-
tions have been advanced from time to time designed to
achieve this objective. Some would like to see a federal rec-
reation service established in the Department of Health,
Education and Welfare. Others would like to see brought
into existence a Federal Department of Recreation or pos-
sibly a Presidential Commission on Recreation.

It seems to me that many of the objectives that those who
have made these proposals have in mind could he achieved
if the Committee on Recreation within the Department of
Health, Education and Welfare were strengthened and pro-
vided with a staff, and if at the same time we elevated and
strengthencd the Federal Inter-Agency Committee on Rec-
reation. If we moved in this direction, we could turn the
spotlight on the importance of recreation, and at the same
time keep the primary responsibility for taking advantage
of our opportunities in this field with the operating agen-
cies within the Department of Health, Education and Wel-
fare, and also with the other departments and agencies of
the federal government that have and should continue to
have major responsibilities in the field of recreation. The
creation of a separate unit within the Department of Health,
Education and Welfare, in the sense of making it a separate
operating agency, or the creation of a separate agency of
government, could lead to a shifting of responsibility to the
new agency by operating agencies of the federal govern-
ment that should never be permitted to shift their responsi-
bilities in this manner.

We have had an evolution of the federal government’s
activities in the field of the aging which parallels this to
some extent. We have in the office of the secretary a Spe-
cial Staff on the Aging. This staff is charged with the re-
sponsibility of giving staff service in the field of the aging
to the operating agencies of our department. You can see
innnediately there isn’t an operating agency in the depart-
ment that doesn’t have a concern with the problems of the
aged, just as there isn’t an operating agency in the depart-
ment that doesn’t have a concern with the problems of rec-
reation, or at least should have it if it doesn’t.

But not only does our department have a concern relative
to problems of the aging, but so do a number of other ma-
jor dcpartments of the government, so the President a few
months ago established a cabinet committee. He called it
a council, the Federal Council on the Aging. Actually, it
is a committee made up of cabinet officers and heads of a
few of the independent agencies that have a direct concern
with the problems of the aging. He has asked me to serve
as chairman of that Federal Council on the Aging. We have
just been under way a few months. I had a meeting of that
council just the other day, to go over some of the staff work
that had been carried on under the direction of the execu-
tive director of that council. In other words, we have a full-

372

time executive director of the council, and he in turn has
access to some staff resources. I was very much impressed
by the job that has been done, but above all by the willing-
ness on the part of my colleagues in the cabinet to come to
the meeting, to participate actively in the discussion. This
is significant because it means that they will go back to

their departments and implement the results of these dis-
eussions.

“Be Careful”

0n the basis of my experience in the federal government,
I always say to those who have an interest in a special ef-
fort, “Be careful. Don’t push for an organizational plan
that may result in your becoming an orphan child within
the executive branch of the federal government.” I have
seen it happen. It can happen. At the present time, on the
basis of my own thinking, I would favor a special staff on
recreation, to serve our intradepartmental committee on
recreation within the Department of Health, Education and
Wclfare, and I would favor elevating the Inter-Agency Com-
mittee that has been in existence now, for a period of ten
years. \Vhen I say this. I do not reflect in any way, shape,
or manner on those who have served on the committee.
However, if that committee is to play a meaningful part in
the field of recreation, as far as the government as a whole
is concerned, its status must be elevated and we must have
on it people who will participate in the decision-making
process and then go back and put the decisions into effect.

I know this is a matter of deep concern to you. I do not
want you to feel that I havc dogmatic views on this point.
I don’t. I would certainly be happy, more than happy, to
discuss this particular issue further with your representa-
tives. I am interested in achieving the same objective that
you are interested in achieving. namely, to make sure that
the federal government plays a meaningful and effective
part in the recreation movement.

Summing it all up. I will be morc than happy, as long
as I am in this position. to work with you in calling to the
attention of the opcrating agencies in our own department,
as well as in other departments of government, the impor-
tant role that recreation can and should play in helping us
to achieve health, education, and welfare objectives. I will
be happy to work with you in identifying the responsibil-
ities that should be assumed by federal, state, and local gov-
ernments, as well as by the voluntary private agencies
throughout our nation. I will be willing to take the initiative
in endeavoring to work out an agreed-upon policy for the
federal government in the field of recreation. And I will be
very happy to do everything possible to strengthen methods
for obtaining coordination on recreational matters within
the Department of Health, Education and “felfare, and also
among the other agencies of the federal government.

I want to end on the note on which I started. You who
are engaged in this tremendously important activity are
making a major contribution in the direction of helping hu-
man beings realize their highest potential, and by so doing,
you are helping to make and to keep America strong. We
are indebted to you as a nation for your contributions. I
want to help you in every way to achieve your objective. #

RECREATION

 

   

A REPORTER’S NOTEBOOK

 

Youth in the News

0 The first nationwide all-American

Youth Show, to be held in the New York
City Coliseum. December 1960, will
point up youth accomplishment and
achievement. According to Richard A.
Feldon. chairman of the Advisory Coun-
cil to the American Youth Exposition,
“We are not trying to belittle the need
for attention to the youth delinquency
problem . . . but are anxious to remind
Americans everywhere that the three
percent wrongdoers are not representa-
tive of the ninety-seven percent right-
doers.”

The exposition will provide opportu-
nity for young pe0ple, parents, business,
social. civic, political, religious leaders
to see in one place under one roof the
outstanding contributions youth is mak-
ing today. Vice-president Nixon is hon-
orary chairman of the advisory council.
0 Seven thousand delegates will receive
invitations from President Eisenhower
to attend the Golden Anniversary White
House Conference on Children and
Youth, to be held in \Vashington, D. C.,
March 27-April 2, 1960. This is the
sixth such decennial conference held in
the United States since President Theo-
dore Roosevelt called the first one in
1909.

Purpose of the anniversary confer-
ence is “to promote opportunities for
children and youth to realize their full
potential for a creative life in freedom
and dignity.” Youth representatives
will be treated as full-scale delegates,
taking their place beside adults in
work groups dealing with every current
problem facing American children and
youth. The National Recreation Asso-
ciation is one of the cooperating agen-
cies represented on the Council of Na-
tional Organizations, one of three major
groups functioning in preparatory work
for the golden-anniversary conference.

Novenaea 1959

People in the News

0 The .115: National Recreation Con-
gress constituted a fitting send-ofl' for
O. C. “Terry” Rose, assistant recreation
director of the Chicago Park District.
Mr. Rose retired the week prior to
the Congress, after devoting thirty-eight
years to recreation. Hereafter, he will
live in Florida.

0 Verna Rensvold, who recently re-
signed as superintendent of public rec-
reation in Kansas City, Missouri, has
joined the staff of the National Recrea-
tion Association as a special field rep.
resentative.

 

3n {Imam-ism

 

0 Mrs. May Rockwell Page, philanthro-
pist and widow of DeWitt Page, died
recently in Bristol, Connecticut, at the
age of eighty-eight. Mr. and Mrs. Page
had donated more than a million dollars
to the city and youth and welfare agen-

 

 

u‘w “III-WI
mm Hie-0
coco! 9"

eies. Seventy-acre Page Park is one of
the city’s showplaees. Mr. Page aided
the National Recreation Association for
some years.

0 Mrs. Mary M. Daly, a supervising
playground director for the New York
City Department of Parks for thirty
years, died recently after a two-month
illness.

0 Clement Miller Biddle. director-emer-
itus of the Boys Clubs of America.
died in Bronxville, New York, at the age
of eighty-three. He was one of the
founders of the BCA, as well as of the
Boys Club and Girls Club of Mt. Ver-
non, New York.

0 Dr. C. H. McCloy, physical education
professor at the State University of
lowa for twenty-nine years, died of a
stroke at the age of seventy-three. Dr.
McCloy was noted for his research in
physical education and his interest in
promoting physical fitness. He was a
former president of the Pan-American
Institute of Physical Education and of
the American Association of Health,
Physical Education, and Recreation.

0 Stephen Wyekofl', a research leader
in the science of forest genetics, died
of cancer at the age of sixty-eight. He
had retired in 1951 from the U. S. For-
est Service after thirty-five years. At
the time of death he was executive vice-
president of the Forest Genetics Re-
search Foundation, a nonprofit organ-
ization he helped found. 

 

  
 
  

T-‘HA‘ '

"C" IT“
'lM"

   

 
 
 
  

 
  
 

 

  
  

 

5 y ..
fig-aw - omrcml
mgr“ an III! I. I . “2-1.:-

I- . _- u—n—nr
it... Orr" .zm DnttS‘ O”, L. 'm'

   

 

Th is attractive exhibit, prepared by NRA District Represent-
ative Richard (ff/ink) Ta ply for the New England District
Recreation Conference, 5 ans how to display your recrea-
tion story at fairs, conferences, meetings, and irorkshOps.

 

Rev. J. N. Quello of Fargo discusses workshops
with Mrs. Ruth Anderson of the

North Dahota State Department of Health.

Today’s
Pioneering

Episodes in the thrilling story of our

held’s fastest growing phase . . . recreation
for the ill, aging, and handicapped.

l t all began when Dr. 0. I]. Pannhohe
read the article “Ambulation and Ac-
tivity Instead of ‘Bed and Bored’ ” in
the May 1959 issue of Nursing Homes.
He then made a long-distance call to
Beatrice H. Hill, author of the article
and director of the Consulting Service
on Recreation for the Ill and Handi-
capped of the National Recreation As-
sociation. This call resulted in a series
of workshops in North Dakota to show
members of the Lutheran Hospitals and
Homes how to conduct recreation activ-
ities in a coordinated program such as
the one described in the article. The
series was conducted by Dr. Lucas at
Mrs. Hill’s request. H er report follows.

Y COVERED WAGON was a strato-
Mliner and my travel time from
New York to North Dakota
would have seemed a life-sized miracle
to those early pioneers who inched
across the country. It struck me that

there was almost nothing in the world
we were flying over that would have

DR. LUCAS is recreation consultant, Di-
vision on Aging, Federation of Protes-
tant Welfare Agencies, New York City.

374

been recognized by a reincarnated pio-
neer.

As we came in high over the plains
of North Dakota, on that June day last
summer, I shared with all pioneers of
every era the exhilaration, the anticipa-
tion, the sense of adventure in exploring
a new territory. For, in the great north-
ern plains of our country, the idea of
recreation for senior citizens is, indeed,
new territory.

I had qualms as the plane touched
down and I must admit I wished for a
moment that 1 had brought along some-
thing more spectacular than simply the
material for three workshops designed
to attract people from eight states.

It was indeed fitting that the series
of workshops, the first project of its
kind in the region, should be sponsored
by the Lutheran Hospitals and Homes
Socicty, itself born out of a great Chris-
tian pioneering movement. This society
has been an extremely effective pioneer
in providing health services and facili-
ties in rural areas. The reconnoitering,
the advance planning and laying of
groundwork had been done carefully,
thoroughly, and effectively by Dr. 0. H.
Pannkoke, public relations director of
the society, and his devoted coworkers.

Carol Lucas

The \Vorkshop

Anyone who has ever conducted a
workshop has, at the back of his mind,
a hOpe that one day he will have a
chance to work with the ideal group of
participants. 1 was aware, that first day
in Fargo, that this hope had become a
reality. This was also true in Powell,
Wyoming, and Sterling, Colorado.‘ In
all three workshops were representa-
tives of public and private agencies,
state and local departments, and a cross-
section of community groups interested
in and involved with services for the ag-
ing, plus senior citizens themselves.
Here was total cooperation. This, the
authorities agree, is the kind of group
that can achieve real progress in the
field of social welfare and recreation.

Each participant in the workshop re-
ceived his own copy of the outline of
the week-long course that served as a
guide for the sessions, a basis for dis-
cussions, and a helpful tool for future
reference. The outline included such
items as music in rehabilitation, litera-
ture and the theater; dancing; crafts,
the graphic and plastic arts; hobbies,
games and sports; special events and
parties. The portfolio presented to the
participants also included informative

RECREATION

 

I

Recreation activities must he planned with the aged and
not for them. Here, a u'orkshopper persuades an ohister
to get right in there and pitch. Even the wheei-chair
patients found they could easily play horseshoes and bowl.

papers on crafts, medical advances, and
motivating techniques.

Techniques. We found the showing of
movies (R/X Recreation and The Cold
Spring idea), with follow-up discussion,
provided an excellent warm-up session
for the opening day, focusing the atten-
tion of participants on their common
interests, stimulating them to express
their views, creating an informal atmos-
phere.

At the close of the first day’s pro-
gram, volunteers were asked to take
home various table games, learn how
to play them, and return the following
day and instruct the group. This pro-
cedure worked out very well and on the
second day, volunteer leaders instructed
the group in playing Monopoly, Scrab-
ble, roulette for fun, twenty-seven dif-
ferent dice games, Racko, and Mr. Kee.

We tried an experimcnt. We removed
the directions from Mr. Kee. Would
the volunteer leader come back to the
workshop and report that the directions
were missing, or would he or she suh-
stitute another game? In only one of
the workshops did the voluntecr show
sullicicnt initiative to substitute another
game and, interestingly enough, the

Novaneaa 1959

suhstitute game proved to he the most
popular with the group.

In all three of the workshops, the par-
ticipants learned how to play all the
games and how to give instructions for
play. The final session of each work-
shop was a party, planned and organ-
ized by the group. In one community
the party was held in a nursing home
and its major feature was a demonstra-
tion of Bingo as an example of a game
in which everyone can take part. Am-
hulatory patients gathered in the large
dining room, wheel-chair and stretcher
patients wcre assembled in the recrca-
tion rooms on each floor, and bed pa-
tients played right where they were,
hearing the caller through the home’s
public address system. The caller pro-
nounced the numbers loudly and dis-
tinctly and repeated them several times,
heing careful to allow the players
cnough time for their moves. A volun-
teer was stationcd on each floor, near
the telephone connected with the home's
intercommunication system, and when
a player on any one of the floors made.
Bingo, the information was flasllcd hy
the volunteer to the callcr. The winner's
names were announced on the PA sys-
tem and winners wcre awarded prizes.

Participants took active part in all of the workshops.
Fred Wiekie, superintendent of the Logan County "aspi-
ta! and Good Samaritan Horne, Sterling, Colorado, joins
the ladies in some ban g-up music making. No reticenee here!

liesidcnts of the nursing home thor-
oughly enjoyed the game. Those con-
fined to their beds were extremely ap-
preciative of this opportunity to par-
ticipate as an active mcmher of the
group. The demonstration was a source
of pleasure and satisfaction to the resi-
dents and a revelation to many of the
workshop people.

In all thrce workshops, senior citizens
were included in the sessions. This must
always be so. Recreation activities must
be planned with the aged, not for thcm.
The same is true of recreation for chil-
dren or for any group, as a matter of
fact. lf participants have no voice in
the selection and setting up of activities
they will not receive full value from
them.

detilrities. Dancing was high in the
popularity poll in all three workshops.
During one session. two workshop mem-
bers pulled a senior citizen from the
sidelines into the dance activity and he.
instead of remonstrating, joined in the
fun. At the end of the session he ex-
claimed: “In all my lifc, l ncvcr danced
before-“l was just sitting here. mind-
ing my own husincss, and all of a sud-
den. l’ln dancing!" He beamed. lle

375

had, at this late date (but not too late)
discovered the joy of dancing. Some-
times it is necessary to push gently so
that the senior citizen can learn for him-
self whether or not he enjoys an activity.

The party that climaxed another of
the workshops was held at a home for
the aged where the matron was certain
that her residents would not participate
in the more active parts of the program.
But, when the dancing (Hokie-Pokie
and La Raspa) got under way, nearly
all the ambulatory and wheel-chair
residents found themselves taking part
and having a great time. Members of the
workshop danced with and gave support
to those who had a fear of falling. It
should be noted that some of the resi-
dents had attended workshop sessions
and had felt that the dances were silly,
but when they bccame participants their
attitude underwent a marked change.
This proved to all of us the tremendous
importance of participation.

A full session on sports was included
in all the workshops and senior citizens
played darts, baseball, horseshoes, and
bowling right along with the work-
shoppers, with modifications geared to

their capabilities. Even the wheel-chair
patients found they could play horse-
shoes and could bowl, with special light-
weight equipment, and throw darts from
their chairs.

Another session was given over to ex-
ploring the potentialities of ceramics
fashioned of the new, inexpensive clay
that hardens without firing; of finger
painting and working with papier-
miiché. The use of educational discus-
sion records was demonstrated and
evaluated by the group. In the session
on drama, Co-star Records were used,
with members of the group assisting
in the demonstration. One person, us-
ing the script that accompanies the re-
cording, enacts a drama in collabora-
tion with the recorded voice of a well-
known actor.

A highlight of each workshop was the
session on rhythm hands. In each
group, talent was discovered within the
group for leadership. A well-known and
popular Kitchen Band, developed by the
women’s auxiliary of the American
Legion in one area, was invited to par-
ticipate in the workshOp and it was so
enthusiastically received that it hecamc

the focal point of the party concluding
the workshop. The band brought all
onlookers into its activities as partici-
pants and a great deal was learned
about the satisfactions of taking part.

Toward the end of the workshop
course, a full day was devoted to study-
ing and discussing forms and proce-
dures for incorporating workshop ac-
tivities into the daily curriculum of a
nursing home or home for the aged. It
is one thing to take part in a recreation
activity in a workshop session and gen-
erate enthusiasm for it, but quite an-
other to set up and direct that activity
in a home so that all residents receive
full benefits.

At the end of each workshop, mem-
bers werc asked to submit a written and
unsigned evaluation of the sessions. The
consensus was that the group sessions
had been extremely helpful and stimu-
lating, and a great deal had been
learned through participation. It is
hoped that similar workshops will be
conducted in many other areas through-
out the country and that, thereby, the
quantity and quality of recreation for
senior citizens will be vastly increased.

 

What Are You Doing About Election Night?

A simpie answer to this question is invite the neighbor-
hood in .’ Watch ( or fisten to) the eiection returns together.
White Sands Proving Ground Service Ciub, White Sands,
New Mexico ( Fourth Army Area) did just that one year,
with no troubie, just a bit 0/ advance pianning and decor-
ation. They called it “Eiephant and Donkey Party,” and
here’s how it was reported in the Sixth Army Newsletter.

Elephant and Donkey Party

To assist in creating the desired atmosphere for the party
on election night, the lounge was transformed into a con-
vention hall.

Five days before the program, large posters, clcverly il-
lustrated with drawings of elephants and donkeys, were
placed on orderly room bulletin hoards, around the club,
and in the lobby of the theater. Notices were run in the Daily
Buiietin and an article was written for Wind and Sand, the
post newspaper.

With a red-white-and-blue color scheme as the decoration
focus, bunting festooned the stage, and streamers of crépe
paper werc swagged around the ceiling. Large pictures of
the two candidates were hung around the lounge and on pil-
lars.

The radio (or TV) was placed on a portable stage with
large blackboards on either side. On each, twenty-four states
were listed in alphabetical order. The boards were used to

376

keep score of the election returns and were marked off in
the following manner:

 

 

   
    

 

 

 

 
 
    

‘ ectora o. o 0. Dust. i_ opu ar ote # ectoral 012
State. Vote Districts Reperting‘ Rep. Dem.__ Rep. Dem.
Ala. . ) T

Etc. I .

 

Two men were selected in advance to keep score, and when
the election returns started coming in, the information was
written in the appropriate spaces on the hoards.

Thc chairs and lounges were arranged in conversational
groups facing the radio (or TV) and blackboards. An am-
ple supply of magazines and newspapers was placed on coffee
and end tables throughout the lounge, and during the course
of the evcning were read or thmnbed through hy the men.

A large tray of elephants and donkeys cut from colored
poster paper was placed on a table ncar the entrance. As
each man entered his “favorite” was selected and pinned on.

A “help-yourself” table loaded with snacks was set up in
the lounge along with an urn of steaming coffee. Refresh-
ments served in this manner eliminated the usual waiting
line of men as well as noise and confusion.

The entire evening was spent listening to the various talks
and speeches, the election returns, reading and looking at
magazines and newspapers, and in group conversation and
discussions. Before the night was over we had more enthu-
siastic guests than we had places for them to sit or stand.

RECREATION

l

I

RECREATION
RIGHTS

OF
TEEN—AGERS

To develop slvills at their
own rate in terms of
their interests and abilities

 

 

Virginia Musselm an

Nova.“ BER 1959

 

and play with others of comparable skill. Equal 0p-

portunity for girls, and for those who are not “star”
players. Excellent coaching. with emphasis on sportsman-
ship, health, and safety. Types: basketball. baseball, soft-
ball, volleyball, football, soccer, ice hockey.

Dual and Individual Sports. Expert instruction, provi-
sion of facilities and opportunities to progress in skill in
those sports carrying over into adult life: tennis, badmin-
ton, howling, golf, fencing, handball. horseback riding.
riflery, swinnning, skiing, ice skating, fishing, hunting, and
camping.

Semiactive Comes. Billiards, pool, table tennis, darts.

Mental Games. Bridge. Canasta, pinochle, cribbage, gin
rummy. Scrabble, chess, checkers, backgammon.

Tool Skills. To handle hand and power tools safely and
cflieiently.

f I learn Sports. To have an opportunity to learn. practice,

Survival Skills. Outdoor safety, firemaking. cooking,
water safety, trapping, shooting, fishing, tracking, shelter
building. etcctera.

Social Skills. Table, dance, and every-day etiquette; so-
cial and square dancing; party planning.

Cultural Skills. To play at least one musical instrument.
To sing in chorus, glee club, or other type of group singing.
To explore as many art forms as possible: oil painting, draw-
ing, ceramics, sculpture, metalwork, leatherwork, needle-
crafts, weaving, and so on. To take part in drama activities,
both formal and informal. To explore dance forms: mod-
crn. ballet, tap, folk, square.

Appreciation Skills. To listen to classical, modern, and
popular music with understanding. To visit art galleries,
exhibits, museums, historic places, etcetera. To read poetry
and other literature that will interpret the past, represent
the present, and arouse curiosity about the future. T0 at-
tend plays, operas, and other forms of dramatic and musical
art. To attend ballet, modern-dance programs, and other
dance forms.

Nature Interest. To have the opportunity to learn the
native birds, animals, trees, flowers, and so forth. To ob-
serve and learn more about the stars and planets, weather,
rocks and minerals, shells, fish, and marine life. To develop
an appreciation of the beauty of the world and an interest
in conserving our national resources as their own heritage
as well as that of future generations.

IIobby Interests. To devel0p sufficient interest to enjoy
two types of hobbies: collecting, such as stamps, coins,
dolls, toy soldiers, and others; and an activity hobby, such
as oil painting, jewelry making, woodearving. making
model planes, and so on.

Civic and Service Interests. Most important. To be will-
ing to do things for others, such as singing for a hospital
ward, making toys for underprivileged children, collecting
funds for national drives, working as volunteer leaders,
helping out in political campaigns, antilitter drivCS, and
so on. Opportunities for service and for accepting civic
responsibility should be many and frequent. #

‘—

Mlss MUSSELMAN is director of the program department.
National Recreation Association.

377

 

 

Tue FOLLOWING SUCCESSFUL ideas

were chosen to help you with your
Christmas celebration planning—wboth
program and crafts.

Have Deer Will Travel

Each and every recreation and park
department in the country oflersimany
outstanding projects that proclaim the
spirit of the holiday season—a play, a
pageant, a concert, a parade, special
holiday gift-wrapping sessions or les-
sons on making Christmas candies, dec-
orations, and pastries. Naturally, they
all decorate their centers, oflices, and
trees in public squares, or set up pag-
cant and Nativity scenes in park areas.
In Vallejo, California, live deer ac-
company Santa in programs all over
town. One year a comparatively tame
six-month-old black-tailed deer was ob-
tained from a state game warden; an-
other year a young fawn was obtained
from Knowland State Park in Oakland.
After working with the young deer for
at least a week, training it to follow by
leash, it was ready for some seventy
auditorium, lodge, home, ollice and
business district visits. Keith Mac-
donald, executive director of the Great-
er Vallejo Recreation Districts reports
“results are nothing less than terrific.”

“We go through a program of Christ-
mas carols, led by Santa. Some songs

3'58

’TIS THE MONTH

BEFORE CHRISTM

And all through the recreation “house”
creatures are stirring with festive plans to
make Christmas a joyous holiday.

have three children on each side of
Santa, holding lighted candles (all other
lights are out). Santa also advises the
children to leave a glass of milk and a
cookie by the tree for him because he
gets hungry while he works. We go
through Santa’s trip from the North
Pole to our community with all the hand
and arm motions that one can invent.
We go through clouds, over a stump, un-
(ler a branch, over a bridge, through
grass, wading water, over rocks,
through rain, then sunshine, and at last,
s'woop down to Vallejo. The return trip
is twice as fast because Santa Claus
docs this with an empty sled.

“To put the finishing touch on each
visit, Santa relates the following:

“ ‘I was waiting for my helper to pile
the sled high with toys, and what do you
think bounded out from the reindeer
barn but Faline, who is Bambi’s little
six-month-old baby daughter. There she
was, pawing at the sled, wanting to go
along—well, you know I couldn't take
her. So, I shouted to my helpers to take
Faline back to the barn, I turned to
wave goodbye to Mrs. Santa Claus, and
off I went high into the sky. We went
right through a cloud, over some pretty
bumpy air pockets and I turned around
to see how the load was riding, and
what do you think was on top of the
pile of toys? You’re right! It was
Falinel I couldn’t turn back. I had to
keep right on going and, if you’ll be real
quiet, I’d like to have you meet Faline
right now.’

“Needless to say, the reaction just
tops everything. Two children come up
on stage and are given rolled oats for
the deer; two other children are allowed

to feed Faline from a baby hottle.

“If you have the build, personality,
and desire to do more than is expected
of you, try putting a real live deer into
your Christmas program.”

 

A United Christmas

The Douglas County, Kansas, Christ-
mas Bureau was organized in 1958 to
coordinate activities of the various com-

munity agencies engaged in benevolent
work at Christmas time. A committee
was organized in October to plan the op-
eration. Represented were memhcrs of
the Salvation Army, Boy Scouts, Red
Cross, County \Velfare, U.S. Marine
Reserve, University YMCA, firemen,
Ministerial Alliance, Rotary, Kiwanis,
Lions, Junior Chamber of Commerce.
Council of Social Agencies, Girl Scouts,
Social Service League, and the Law-
rence Recreation Commission.

It was agreed that the recreation
center would be the focal point of the
bureau and that the Salvation Army
would act as a clearinghouse with phone
calls and requests channeled through
that ollicc—persons who had been on
the list in previous years and new re-
cipients were named. Each service club
in the community was notified and most
of them who had previously adopted
families joined in the concerted effort.

Members of the committee collected
and distributed food baskets. It was

RECREATION

agreed that many toys were sometimes
wasted because they did not fit the age
of the child. A system was designated to
eliminate some of this duplication.

The Marine Reserve, university
groups, VFW. firemen, and others who
had previously collected toys brought
them to the community center. There
they were catalogued, wrapped, and
labeled by the employees of llallmark
Cards. They were placed in areas
marked for different age groups.

At a designated time those parents on
the list for receiving toys were allowed
to come in and select toys for each
child. No children were allowed in the
room. A check list with the names of
the children was marked when each toy
was selected, preventing the greedy
from acquiring all of the better toys.
This was done on Friday and Saturday
prior to Christmas. Approximately 471
children received five toys each from the
toy shop, 435 children were scheduled
to parties given by the organization, 350
children were given candy and treats by
the Elks, 107 families were adopted out
with a total of 520 persons. Over sev-
enty groups eventually took part in the
program.

The program does away with dupli-
cation, allows the parent some selection
and helps his dignity in that the child
believes that the toy is coming from the
parent or Santa Claus, as the case may
be. In a united effort more people were
made happy and the joy of giving was
brought to the community. The plan
will be continued in 1959. -—WAYNE
BLY, Superintendent of Recreation,
Lawrence, Kansas.

Christmas Angel Mobile

To hang in a stair well, or from a
high ceiling, this large mobile fills the
bill. The idea comes from Alice Koontz,
first-grade teacher in Charleston, \Vest

 

Novemnsa 1959

Virginia. ller youngsters made and
lmng it in their school stair well.

Fit together two red hula hoops, to
make a cage. Twine these with silver
tinsel. From inside the top, hang a big
silver Christmas-tree ball from a length
of tinsel. This makes the head of the
angel. Add colored paper eyes, nose,
and month.

To the ball attach a large pine cone
for the angel’s body. Spatter it with
glitter. Add wings cut from a silver or
white lace-paper doily. Add pipe-clean-
er arms, or arms cut from white card-
board. The arms can hold a cardboard
book.

When hung from a long piece of tin-
sel, the hoop will turn in a most interest-
ing way. Vary the idea with your own
color scheme.

String Cages

Among the craft activities shown
by Alleenc Lohman, at a playground
leaders’ institute, sponsored by the Ver-
mont State Board of Recreation, were
“string cages” that can be adapted for
various holiday decorations.

Materials Needed: Balloons, blown
up and tied with their own “necks,”
salad oil, yarn or string; thick wall-
paper paste, thick Argo laundry starch
paste, half a cup dissolved in a little
cold water to one quart boiling water,
bowl for starch-paste mixture; clothes
dryer, clothes hangers, etcetera for
hanging balloons; suit box or large
pan; glitter, gold paint, sequins, glue,
etcetera; small Christmas tree orna-
ments, gilded spruce cones, etcetera;
mobile making materials.

How to Make: Make a mixture of half
wallpaper paste and half Argo starch.
Sprinkle wallpaper-paste powder into
water and stir until smooth and thick.
Never put water into “flour”; lumps re-
sult. Tie balloons on to rack or hang-
ers so they hang freely. Oil them slightly
all over with salad oil, using palms of
hands. Set bowl of paste-starch on
table and place suit box or large pan be-
side it. Hold fingers of right hand
down in “goo” and draw yarn or string
through with left hand, thoroughly
dampening yarn. Let yards of string or
yarn collect in pan, break yarn and let
end hang over edge of pan so it will not
get lost, then holding balloon at top
with left hand start winding “gooey”

 

 

yarn around the balloon in every direc-
tion until it is covered with a good net-
work (leave a “window” near the top
large enough to admit whatever is to
hang inside. When string has dried
(twenty-four or thirty-six hours) punc-
ture the balloons and draw out the
pieces. (Oil is to keep yarn from stick-
ing to the balloons.) “Cages” may be
decorated by brushing or Spraying on
spots of gold or copper paint and by
spotting on Elmer’s or white glue and
then sprinkling on glitter. Ilave a large
box below “cage” to catch excess.
Uses: Use for various holiday decora-
tions. Suspend small Christmas decor-
ations or cones inside the “cages”;
decorate with stars and sequins, with
ribbon bows or sprigs of greens. Use
singly or in two’s or threc’s, or use in
mobiles. Pastel wool yarns are best,
though ordinary string may be used.

Homemade Glitter

lloliday counters are aglow with
bright, sparkling holiday colors, ma-
terials, sequins, papers, beadlike jewels.
Perhaps you have been saving such
items from last year. If so, here is
where you can put them to good use.

Styrofoam (obtainable in sheets at
any dime store) makes good Christmas
angels, too, as well as tree balls, stars.
bells. snowmen, and so on. Cover with
colored sequins, colored glass beads,
anything that sparkles. Most trimmings
can be pinned on this material. Glitter
dust can be added by sprinkling over
paste or glue (after this sets, shake off
excess), or use one of the new Linck
Glitter “pens.”

When cutting Styrofoam shapes, first
sketch the outline in pencil, then use
sharp kitchen knife or small coping saw
for the more intricate pieces. This ma-
terial can be smoothed by rubbing one
piece against the other. #

379

 

 

ART COMES TO
MAIN STREET 

Foiding chairs biock of} Red Bank’s main street. There were band-
stands at both ends. These youngsters are absorbed in a
craft demonstration, one of the many special events and dispiays.

An outdoor art festival proves ' T" I _

art can be recreation, and -
that “recreation is peOple.” 3.3“! "r'

 

380 . RECREATION ‘

 

How to Hold Your Own Art Festival

I. Start planning at least six months ahead.

3. be! a working committee and assign each person a
specific job.

3. See to it that all community organisations are rep-
tesentecl on your working committee.

4. (.ottcentmte on local talent.

. Aeep the press inlormed of all your plans.

v“!

 

One man’s opinion is as good as another's. Don’t be in fluenced by the experts.

and stretched in two rows down the middle of Broad
Street. As far as the eye could see there were exhibits,
there werc pe0ple, and there were artists of all kinds. shapes,

E SNOW FENCES covered with pictures lined the sidewalks

and sizes.

Five-year-olds and cight-year-olds, housewives and pro-
fessional artists—all helped to make the outdoor Festival
of Art a success. lied Bank, New Jersey, had a show to be
proud of.

This was the art festival's cighth year, but the first time it
had gone big time. It had previously been held in Marine
Park—oil the heaten track. As the result of requests from
many merchants who thought it would be good business to
bring the show to their front doors, it was moved to lied
Bank’s main thoroughfare.

_— ___._. *,

MISS BUNN is assistant director of Public lnformatton and
Education. National Recreation Association.

NOVEMBER 1959

The merchants got in touch with Frank Balduc, executive
viee-president of the chamber of commerce. Frank got in
touch with the Monmouth Arts Foundation, sponsor of the
annual event. Ray McCartney, director of the lied Bank
liecreation Commission, was asked to help. A working com-
mittee was formed and each was assigned certain tasks.

The committee was composed of : Frank Balduc, Frank’s
secretary Mrs. Margaret (l’eg) Lund; liay McCartney,
liay’s secretary, Mrs. Samuel B. (Eleanor) Levaus; Mrs.
liobcrt (Carol) Beck, board member of the Monmouth Arts

Foundation and chairman of the planning committee; and
Mrs. John (Jean) Parlnly, hoard member of the Monmouth
Arts Foundation and chairman of the Art Advancement
Committee.

The whole town was asked to participate— and did gladly.
The street department donated men, trucks, hamnnersfand
saws. Monmouth liace Track contributed tables with um-

381

brellas. The county put up the snow fences.“ The mayor and
the council closed off Broad Street for the two days of the
festival. They had to reroute traffic and buses to do it, but
do it they (lid. The Salvation Army, the YMCA, and the
Presbyterian church donated tables to hold displays. The
fire department laid out a fire lane. Students of the Red
Bank High School prepared most of the printing of the
programs and signs.

The borough of Red Bank gave a five-hundred-dollar cash
award for first prize in the painting division. The Merch-
ant’s Trust Company gave the two-hundred-and-fifty-(lollar
second prize and the third prize of one hundred fifty dollars
was presented jointly by the Seacoast Finance and the Bell
Finance Companies.

Other Red Bank merchants, hotels, and clubs contributed
two hundred sixty dollars, in cash, for prizes in other divi-
sions, as well as merchandise for thc honorable mentions.
Prominent local artists were asked to judge the entries.
By newspapers, radio and TV, and by word of mouth,
artists (both amateur and professional) were informed of
the coming festival. Anybody who wanted to exhibit could.

The group thought they should have more than just ex-
hibits to make the festival a success. There should be some
entertainment, so bandstands were put up on both ends of
Broad Street. Local bands were asked to play. They in-
cluded all ranges, shapes, and sizes—everything from the
Red Bank Nursery School Rhythm Band through the Rut-
gers Brass Sextet up to the band supplied by the Musicians
Local #399. An accordion school supplied one-half hour
of music and a barbershop quartet another. There were
puppet shows, folk dances, and even a fashion show.

Another popular part of the festival was the “bargain
board” where local artists sold works at minimum fees.
These included sketches, show material from other years—
anything they were willing to sell for from one dollar to
twenty-five dollars.

By the time the big day arrived, there were more than
fifteen hundrcd exhihits displayed. There were exhibits
from first graders and all the other grades as well. There
were exhibits from the Girl Scouts, from patients and shell
of the Marlboro State Hospital and Monmouth Medical
Center, from housewives and from grandfathers. One of
the most unusual exhibits was a papier-miiehé dinosaur
made by some first-graders.

Nine patients from the Monmouth Medical Center ex-
hibited a variety of arts and crafts, most of them created
under the direction of the occupational therapy division of
the department of rehabilitation therapies. Several of the
patients had previously become so interested in art that
they had exhibited in a number of shows, including the one
in Red Bank.

All kinds of displays were shown. There were mosaics,
jewelry of all types, including semiprecious stones and
silver, decorated furniture, miniature dried arrangements,
consisting of shells and dried berries, formed to look like
Madonnas, only three inches high. There were demonstra-

" If you are planning an art festival, do not use them—they are
weak and fall apart. This was Red Bank's after-the-fact experience.

382

tions, too: how a potter’s wheel works, seulpturing, water-
color technique, oil painting, and charcoal sketching.

First, second, and third prizes were awarded for painting,
sculpture, photography, and ceramics, and also for the
Novice Division and Children’s Division.

The self-styled critics who roamed Broad Street after the
judges had gone weren’t the least bit influenced in their
opinions by the experts.

“This one won a prize?” commented one man, looking
doubtfully at a beribboned painting. “It’s hard to figure.”

“My, that’s really abstract,” said a women looking at a
sculptured something or other.

One woman went overboard in her praise. “This doesn’t
look like a painting, it looks so nice,” she said.

At the same time the Red Bank Festival of Art was going
on, two local artists, Travers Neidlinger and his sister
Gertrude, were bringing art to the theater. They were co-
chairmen of the Eleventh Annual Spring Conference of the
New J erscy Theatre League, which took place nearby at the
Monmouth Park Jockey Club in Oceanport. The honorary
chairman, Amory L. Heaskell, spoke on “Integration of the
Arts.” The Monmouth Park Festival of the Arts is held for
New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and Connecticut com-
munity-theater groups.

Both events attracted unusually large crowds and many of
the visitors were able to take part in each. It was these
visitors who appealed to the merchants of Red Bank.

How did the merchants like the Festival of Art? Some
were happy and some were not. Business seemed to be
slower than anticipated in a few of the stores, but many of
the merchants had good reports. Steinbach’s Department
Store said business increased, and, after the festival was
over, it continued using the art motif by designing window
displays around paintings. Sam Yonko of Yonko’s Depart-
ment Store said, “It’s way too big to be measured in terms
of a cash register today or next week or ncxt month, but
something like this is magnificent because it makes the en-
tire area aware of creative arts and of the merchants who
bclieve in them.”

Mayor George A. Gray said, “In my opinion, the Festival
of Arts was one of the finest events that has ever occurred
in our town.”

The Red Bank Register really told the story when it said
in an editorial: “The prestige of the Red Bank area as a
cultural center zoomed and is still floating around in the
heavens . . . the cvent was exciting, bold, and imaginative.”

  

It is through our comprehension of the arts—or of those
we find ourselves equipped by nature to grasp and appre-
ciate-that we educate and sophisticate our subtler feel-
ings and more delicate perceptions, and in so doing deep-
en our sense of the infinite resources of man in exploring,
reporting, and evaluating the world and all that is therein.
A great picture greatly understood gives us more of a
sense of this than. endless reiteration of it in words—and
similarly a great musical composition, or a noble piece
of sculpture, or a fine building-Aging in the Modern
World. ( University of Florida Press)

   
 
 
 
 
 
    

RECREATION

How the creative
dramatics approach
was used with

an. old favorite.

Beatrice M. Howell

 

Rats gather to celebrate their successful forays in Hameiin.

THE PIED PIPER IN HAWAII

 

The mayor of Ilameiin Town listens to the Pied Piper play
the tune that will hypnotize the rats into following him.

171‘GC OUT UNDER a full moon at the beautiful Waikiki
S Shell, Honolulu, Hawaii, a completely charmed and

enchanted audience sat enthralled by a delightful per-
formance of a three-act play, The Pied Piper, composed,
produced, and presented by one hundred children of many
races. It was the result of approximately two months of
study of creative dratnatics by these children, aged nine to
fourteen, sponsored hy the Honolulu parks and recreation
board.

According to Mrs. Gerald Ii. Corbett, director of the
classes, the children, informed of the classes through a
notice in the local newspaper, are first told the story. The
play is then developed by group discussion. Children are
asked how they think the story could best be demonstrated
to an audience. Scenes are suggested and parts developed
informally in the group discussion. Finally, lines are de-
velopcd in answer to such questions as, “What would she,
he, or they say?” At the same time, music is suggested,
composed, and sung by them for the scenes the children feel
need musical interpretation. Group dances for the various

scenes originate in the satne way.

 

 

M RS. HOWELL, a free-lance author, is activer interested in
recreation programs for yonth. She has recently had [our
articles published abont junior sailing in the United States.

NOVEMBER 1959

In preparation for The Pied Piper, the children met for
four hours on Saturday mornings over a two-month period.
Classes in creative music were under the able direction of
Dr. Gerald Erwin, music consultant for the statcis de-
partment of public instruction. Classes in creative dramatics
were given by Mrs. Alice McLean, who is well-known in her
field and is also a talented actress. Classes in creative dance
were given by Josephine Taylor, choreographer and dancer
with studios all over the Hawaiian Islands. Costumes were
designed by Frances Ellison, who also designs costumes for
the University of Hawaii’s Theater Guild. Although the
children did not do the. actual designing, they suggested
colors to bring out the moods of the action.

In all these fields, the children’s ideas were expressed, as
in the dance, when they were asked. “flow do you think a
rat would act and feel?” It was their suggestion, for instance.
that in the first scene, a group of about thirty children be
dressed in gray costumes, with lifelike rat masks, and that
they assemble to discuss recent forays into the kitchens and

 

4” is devoured. Nothing is left a] the soup intended for
dinner except a ladle and a rat that died of overeating.

383

 

homes of the harassed townspeople of Hamelin. Each new
conquest, such as the eating of the hair of a child’s new
doll, was greeted with squeals of delight and ended in a
song, accompanied by a dance. This must be recited to be
fully appreciated:

Chorus: We are the rats of Hamelin Town.

We’ll scare you people away.

\Ve’ll eat your cookies and drink your tea,

And you'll have nothing to say.

I'll jump on your toes and chew your shoes.
I’ll open your purse and steal your checks.

Solos:

I’ll knock ofi your hat and pull your hair.
Chorus: We'll make you nervous wrecks!

Aecording to Mrs. Corbett, the children developed a
greater understanding of others through creative dramatics.

“I shall never feel the same about a rat again,” one child
told her. The animal had suddenly become a living, moving
being with emotions.

Lines were not memorized and rehearsed, but were left
to the quick thinking of the child during the performance, to
speak the most convincing lines that occurred to him. As
a result, no child forgot his lines, seemed embarrassed, or
expressed stage fright. They all simply lived their parts and
completely forgot themselves and any fears they might
have had about remembering their parts.

A great deal of audienee amusement resulted from child-
inspired lines. However, one of the bits of humor, bring-
ing the most laughter from a packed house, was the en-
trance of Grctehen, the mayor’s maid, with a soup spoon in
one hand and a rat in the other, instead of the soup which

she had been ordered to serve. According to the dialogue,
the rats had eaten the ehildren’s birthday cake, decorated
with dancing ballerinas, which had 'been prepared for the
mayor’s children’s tea party.

In addition to the fine lessons learned by the children
about the international languages of movement and melody,
the expression of ideas in speech and song, the ability to
work with others and take criticism, there was also a wonder-
ful demonstration of the ability of different raees to work
together in perfect harmony.

This was the second year these very popular creative
dramatics classes were given, the play given the first year
being Joseph and His Coat of Many Colors. The classes,
which are self-supporting, are continuing in response to
popular demand, The fee is twenty dollars for thirty-six
lessons, including instruetion by outstanding talent in
drama, music, and the dance.

Both plays were sellouts. Only the demand for the beauti-
ful outdoor Waikiki Shell, the stage of which is an upright

seashell beside the ocean, at the foot of Diamond Head,
prevented more than three scheduled performances. The
shell is typically Hawaiian in its informality. Audienees
sit on a natural grass amphitheater under the stars, moon,

and tropical palms. (See October, 1959 RECREATION Mag-
azine centerspread.)

We hOpe that now, having achieved statehood, our plans
for more space will soon be realized so these children can
continue to enrich their creative abilities. #

 

Your Storytelling

Comer % i 

   

Elizabeth Culbert

Six Servants

Dr. Know-It-All

Celtic F airy Tales, Joseph Jacobs (Put-
nam, $2.95
Andrew Coffey

English Fairy Tales, Joseph Jacobs
(Putnam, $2.75).
Master of All Masters
Tom-Tit-Tot

Rootabaga Stories,

(Harcourt, $3.25

Carl Sandburg

T THE BEGINNING of each story-hour
A season, even the most eXperienced
storyteller would do well to reread such
background books as The Art of the
Storyteller by Marie Shedlock (Dover,
$3.00) and The Way of the Storyteller
by Ruth Sawyer (Viking, $3.50) .

A story cannot fail if it is told with the
conviction coming from the storyteller’s
personal belief in the value of the tale of
folklore or literature. The article on
folklore in Compton’s Pictured Ency-
cloperlia is essential reading for all who
would have their stories take root and
grow, as the folktale must if it is to sur-
vive.

Busy recreation leaders, for whom
storytelling must, of necessity, be but
one of many specialties, will find prac~

MISS CULBERT, for many years a story-
teller in the New York Public Library,
is now librarian at NRA headquarters.

384

tical aid and inspiration in two publica-
tions of the National Recreation Asso-
ciation: For the Storyteller ($.85) and

Storytelling by Virginia Musselman

($.50). Stories: A List of Stories to
Tell and Read Aloud, published by The
New York Public Library, is an invalu-
able aid in selecting stories.

The following story collections, and
individual stories therefrom, have been
most suecessful with groups of children.

STORY COLLECTIONS '

lt’s Perfectly True and Other Stories

Hans C. Andersen (Harcourt, $3.25).
Numskull Jack

The Wonder Cloclr, Howard Pyle (Har-
per, $3.50
Bearskin
The Water of Life

Tales From Grimm, Tr. by \Vanda Gag
(Coward, $3.50).

The White Horse Girl and the Blue
Wind Boy

The Wedding Procession of The Rag
Doll and the Broom Handle and
Who Was in It

The Baker’s Dozen, Mary Gould Davis
(Harcourt, $3.25).
The Hungry Old Witch
The White Horse Girl and the Blue *
Wind Boy
A Chinese Fairy Tale

The Jack Tales, Richard Chase (H on gh-
ton, $3.75).
Jack and the Bean Tree

Danish Tales Retold, Mary Hatch ( H ar-
court, $2.75).
The Talking Pot

Three Golden Oranges, Ralph Steele
Boggs & M. G. Davis (Longman
$2.95).

The Tinker and the Ghost

REan ATION

' Former dancers in the famous Radio City
I Music Had Rockettes voittnteer

to teach dancing to retarded cin'Idren.

EX‘ROCKETI‘ES
VOLUNTEER

j .‘tlnbcl Clemcncc MacDonald

N A JANUARY mom in 1955, a
0 large group of former Rockettes
traveled from all over the coun-
try for a thirtieth-anniversary celebra-
tion with their director Russell Markert,
at Radio City Music Hall. The Rock-
ctte Alumnae Association stemmed
from this reunion, and that night we
discussed many worthy causes to sup-
port. We decided that we preferred an
organization for which we could not
only raise money, by holding rummage
sales and an annual dinner dance, but
to which we could also give of our-
selves. Jeanne Philips Walsh of Ska-
neatcles. New York, suggested an agen-
ey about which many of us knew very
little—at that time.

Mrs. Walsh had listened to an ad-
dress given at her church guild on the
problems involved in developing men-
tally retarded children and their need
for specialized volunteers. We thus de-
cided to donate funds to the National
Association for Retarded Children, for
research. rather than to any one local
chapter, in view of our nationwide
membership.

At our next monthly meeting, two of
the alumnae surprised us by announc-
ing that they were teaching dancing to
the retarded class in a Maspeth, Long
Island, public school. Since that month,
four years ago, many of us have become
volunteer teachers in the Rockette
Alumnae Dance Project, which has be-
come a part of the recreation programs

' in many retarded schools and in special
public-school classes throughout the

" country. Diana Anitra Mayer was ap-

pointed project chairman.

Mas. MACDONALD is an ex—Rockette and

icochairman of the Rockette Alumnae

Dance Project for retarded children.

'Novmmsa 1959

Wmux aromas of the initiation
of this volunteer service, classes
were started in the Bronx and in l’el-
ham, New York. The club Brtfietin in-
formed our out-of-town members of
this development, and their response
was overwhelming. They all wanted to
know how and what we taught. Within
a short time, we had answers for them.
A committee of alumnae already teach-
ing in the metropolitan area was formed.
They worked out tried and proved
dances and exercises that Florine Myer
Bleyer, our artist member, illustrated.
The NARC had pamphlets printed, con-
taining instructions and these dia-
grams, and these were sent to prospec-
tive teachers. .
Our teaching methods are simple—
a matter of making “simple steps
even simpler,” as one of our pioneer
volunteers phrased it. Steps and exer-
cises were chosen with balance in mind,
lest the children feel insecure or fearful
of trying to do them. The first step is,
of course, winning the children over.
Until they learned to trust us, they were
either shy and withdrawn or overly ag-
gressive. Although we know they are
mentally retarded children, we have not
treated them as such but handle them
as we would normal children. We smile
at them and praise them individually,
and we are very careful never to talk
down to them. Shortly thereafter, they
begin to conform to a more normal pat-
tern and become more spirited.

Tue FIRST LESSON of the term is the
most difficult for both teacher and
student. Very often, the youngster’s
coordination is off, and it is necessary
for the teacher to clasp an ankle and
move the foot to make the child under-

 

stand what is wanted of him. By the
second lesson, somehow, they have be-
come aware of their ability to move
their own feet, and then we can settle
down and teach them to dance. We util-
ize simple exercises to limber their mus-
eles and get them used to using their
bodies. llolding onto chair hacks for
support, they do deep knee-bends and
high kicks; seated on the floor, they per-
form waist-bending exercises to help
strengthen their backs and aid posture.
A simple series of arm movements, ex-
ecuted as gracefully by the boys as the
girls (the boys have no fear of being
called “sissy,” by the way), is followed
by a rest period during which each
child is called upon to sing, recite, or
improvise a dance. Like normal chil-
dren. they enjoy performing.

Some dances, and some dance move-
ments, are harder to do than others.
llere is what we found: square dancing
is one of their delights; the basic brush
tap step is the hardest for them to
grasp; the waltz is a relative cinch.
Progress is more apparent in schools
where the children are graded accord-
ing to age. For instance, the teen-age
group in l’clham has made amazing
progress. They have learned every type
of ballroom dance, a difficult rhythmic
tap dance, and. in the Christmas show
this past year, they performed an intri-
cate hand-drill (dancing with hands
and feet while seated), taught to them
to improve their eoorrlination. How-
ever. such progress is unusual. From
the survey made to write this article, it
was found that overall accomplishment
depends completely on the groups’ cap-
abilities because the teacher can teach

( Continued on page 40-1)

385

 

BIG—TEN FOOTBALL—
WHEELvCHAIR STYLE

The University of Illinois program with the handicapped,
under the leadership of Professor Timothy J. Nugent, was
discussed at the Chicago National Recreation Congress, 1959.

Dick Bauer

ON ANY FOOTBALL afternoon in
Champaign, Illinois, thousands of
spectators jam Memorial Stadium to
watch the Fighting lllini of the Uni-
versity of Illinois tangle with some Big-
Ten gridiron foes.

Yet if tllesc fans had visited the Illi-
nois campus just a few hours earlier,
they would have witnessed another foot-
ball game the equal in courage and de-
termination of the afternoon contest.
There are some, in fact, who claim it
surpasses the lllini game in these re-
spects. For the morning game is played
by men in wheel chairs—paraplegics
who attend the University of Illinois.

Playing and practicing within the
huge university armory, these students
play an exciting and demanding game
that leaves no doubt that they have con-
quercd their disabilities, mentally and
spiritually, if not physically. Two six-

MR. BAUER. a 1959 University of [Ni-
nois journalism graduate, is now a sec-
and lieutenant in the U. S. Air Force.

man teams put on a wheel-chair exhibi-
tion of passing, catching, “running,”
and blocking that makes the word
handicap appear a misnomer.

These Saturday morning wheel-chair
football games are a facet of the Univer-
sity of Illinois’ outstanding Student Ile-
habilitation Program, part of a program
that very obviously stresses “ability,
not disability.”

The rehabilitation program began at
the university, in 1948, under the super-
vision of Professor Timothy J. Nugent.
Nugent’s original eight students quickly
proved to a dubious university that they
were capable of overcoming the obvious
and not-so-obvious problems attached
to attending such a big school as Illinois
in a wheel chair. Today the pr0gram
includes one hundred and fifty students
and allows a student to enroll in any
curriculum offered.

“What we try and accomplish,” cx-
plains Nugent, “is to allow our students
to have the opportunity to experience
the same Opportunity as any other stu-
dents. If the other studcnts can play

football so can our stuoents. . . .”

“Our special services,” continued
Nugent, “include our transportation
facilities, housing, and campus activi-
ties. We consider ourselves in regular
competition with other students. Our
activities program has in it basketball
(Illinois fields the famous Gizz Kids
basketball team in the National \Vheel-
chair Basketball league), baseball, foot-
ball, swimming, archery, square danc-
ing, and many other individual sports.”

Nugent, who coaches the wheel-chair
basketball team, works quite closely
with its football counterpart. “The only
thing that keep us from having compe-
tition with other schools or institutions
is the unique problem of facilitics.”
states Nugent. “The university armory
is one spot where you have a large in-
door area and a smooth field, hard
cnough for rapid movement and still
soft enough to keep a boy from getting
hurt if he takes a spill.” The armory
floor at Illinois is of fine, hard-packed
dirt and large enough to hold the re-
quired sixty-yard field.

The Illinois wheel-chair version of
football consists of two first-line teams
of six players each, the White Flashes
and thc Blue Streaks. The teams play
[our official games each season during
the morning preceding an Illinois home
football game. As in any college sport,
thc wheel-chair teams are plagued by the
loss of graduating players. The season
actually starts when the teams from the
previous year assemble and bid on new

 

TODAY THEY RAN

LAST JUNE, 1959, at Bulova Park,
Queens, New York, over one hun-
dred athletes gathered for the running
of the Third National Whecl-Chair
Olympic Games. From the time of the
opening of the games by Ben Lipton,
director of the Joseph Bulova School of
Watchmaking, until the completion of
the last Olympic contest—the 240-yard-
team relay—we were privileged to en-
joy the fire, determination, and enthusi-

386

asm of these fine “athletes on wheels.”

The thel-Chair Olympics, spon-
sored by Bulova, in cooperation with
Adelphi College and the Paralyzed Vet-
erans of America, had previously been
run in 1957 and 1958, at this same site.
This, the third year of the Olympics,
drew the participation of seven teams
and approximately one hundred par-
ticipants. Teams entered were: Cross-
roads Whizzes (Indiana), Jersey

dash (paraplegics only), 200-yard dash,

Wheelers, Pan Am Jets( New York),
Brooklyn Whirlaways, Bulova Watch-
makers, Canadian Wonders, and the
Cleveland Comets. All of the teams ex-
cept Crossroads had participated in the
two previous games. I

Events included in this year’s
games were: 60-yard dash, lOO-yard1

   
 
 
 
 
  
  

240-yard relay, darts, Ping-pong, jave-
lin throw, shot-put, discus, and archery.
Each event was run in two classifica-
tions—high lesion and low lesion—with
participants classified according to the
extremity of their handicaps. All par-
ticipation, including field events, was in

RECREATIO-

 

players. A point system, based on the
number of players a team has lost plus
its record from the previous season,
determines which team will get first
“draft” choice and therehy helps keep
teams at equal strength throughout the
year. “Once a man is selected by a
team.” explains Nugent, “he remains
with that team, come good or had, for
the rest of his stay at the university.
There is no switching teams.”

The teams are governed by rules very
similar to those in regular football, and
officiating is done hy hired officials not
connected with the university or the Stu-
dent Rehabilitation Program. Play is
as rough and tempers sometimes as hot
as in any other gridiron contest.

The offensive team may line up in any
formation provided it has a three-man
"line" and a three-man “backfield.” A

lineman centers the ball to the quarter-
back who may either I“run” with the ball
or pass it to one of his receivers. The
defense also lines up as it pleases, the
only stipulation being that it maintain
two men in the line.

“Tackling” of a player consists of a
defensive man touching the hall carrier
sinmltancously with both hands; block-
ing allows a player to ram into or col-
lide with another player's chair from
any angle except the rear. As in regular
football, a team has four downs to make
a first down; in this case the required
yardage is fifteen yards instead of ten.
l’unts and kicks are simulated by pass-
es; the kick may be picked up and re-
turned by a man just as a regular kick
return. If the ball goes out of bounds,
it is put in play at that point.

Scoring still gives six points for a
touchdown; extra points are run over
from the two~yard line. Neither the de-
fense nor the offense seems to have an
edge in the contests as past scores, such
as 34-13 and 12-7, indicate that either
a wide open scoring game or a close
defensive battle might develop.

The players give each play of the
game their whole effort, and it is not
uncommon to see a wheel chair lose a '
wheel or a player knocked from his
chair to the floor as a result of a smash-
ing block or tackle. Nohod y ever seems
to get hurt, however. “The rules are set
up to prevent injuries,” states Nugent,
“There has not been a serious injury in
the entire eleven years of the game.”

The wear and tear on wheel chairs is
partially offset by a wheel-chair repair
shop located in the armory. If a chair
loses a wheel it can he sent to the shop
and be in playing condition for the
next game. The players don’t subject
their own chairs to the ravages of the
game; each team is supplied with heavy-
duty chairs for such use.

The very nature of the game demands
that the players develop skills that would
make some regular college foothall
players look on with envy. Imagine sit-
ting in a moving wheel chair and avoid-
ing several other onrushing wheel
chairs while at the same time trying to
pick out a possible pass receiver. The
pass must be thrown fifteen to twenty
yards, from a sitting position, and since
the maneuverability of a receiver is only
a fraction of what it normally would be,
that pass must be exactly on its target.
The receiver must avoid the defenders
and still be able to lift both hands at the
last second to gather in the pass. It is
not a game for boys.

As Nugent points out, wheel-chair
football is but one part of the overall
scope and purpose of the entire rehabili-
tation program. The program and the
students in it do not seek sympathy, ad-
miration, or special consideration. As
stressed in their theme “Ability, not
Disability, Counts!” the student reha-
bilitation leaders and people want only
a public observance of the positive

rather than the negative side of the
handicapped individual. #

 

wheel chairs. Dr. Alois Bruegger, of
Zurich, Switzerland, was present to ren-
der decisions regarding extent of handi-
cap disability.

The Wheel-Chair Olympic Games
were established to provide opportunity
for the physically handicapped to par-
ticipate in sports, an area of endeavor
often denied them. And what is more
important in rehabilitation than the eon-
fidence engendered by genuine achieve-
ment?

The Crossroads \Vllizzes from India-

apolis, Indiana, were the youngest and
newest team to enter the Olympics. The
n1 traveled eight hundred miles, in

ovexmsa 1959

an overnight plane trip, to reach New

York an hour before game time. Phys-

ical fatigue did not deter the team in

any way. For most, this was their first

public competition; as the time of the

games approached team spirit reached

its peak. The strain and tension caused
hy uncertainty, uneasiness, and compet-
itive inexperience hovered above the
team like a cloud. However, this all dis-

sipated as they played. Even a seventh-

place standing failed to dampen their

good feelings.

For many team members this had
been their first airplane trip. For others,
it was their first trip to New York City

or the first journey outside fndiana. It
was amazing to see the self-confidence
generated in team members hy being
able to travel, by being able to take the
subway downtown, and navigate the
streets of the city hy themselves. The
side benefits, derived from these games,
are almost as important as the games
themselves, in terms of overcoming a
physical handicap. The team returned
home with the desire to return to future
games and a resolve to make a better
showing in team standings. —JA.\tEs R.
CHAM Punt, Recreation Consultant, Indi-
ana State Board of Health, India-

napoh's.

387

 

 

PART II: Operation and Program

an PROGRAM of our ice rink, llpon which successful op-
eration depends, should provide skating opportuni-

ties for all types of skalers, to ensure maximum use of
the ice throughout the skating season.

This calls for long hours filled with activities, if intelli-

gently planned. \V‘hcn the skating season is in full swing.
the ice at our Soulh \Iountain .~\rena, ill Essex County,
Vew Jersey, is in use nearly eighteen hours a day, and some-
times longer. Ilours at the Branch Brook outdoor rink are
only a little shorter. In order to make this time worthwhile,
tight scheduling offers the type of skating designed to attract
a wide variety of potential users.
Program. There are four basic parts to a comprehensive
skating program. First. and most important, are the gen-
eral public sessions. This is the skating group to whom the
hulk of the skating time is allocated and around which our
weekly schedule is built. There are morning sessions for
housewives, late afternoon sessions for school children, and
evening sessions for tecn-agers and adults. In all, during
the week shown, there are fifteen two-and-a-half and
three-hour sessions devoted to public skating at South
Mountain tsee chart on Page 390).

Both rinks have been highly successful in stimulating in-
terest and participation in hockey. W'hereas only one of the
county’s secondary schools had a hockey team before the
rinks were opened, last season we had a five-team schoolboy
hockey league. This winter the league is expected to expand
to at least eight teams. The rinks also offer Pee Wee hockey
for boys up to twelve and senior amateur hockey for adults.

Examination of the schedule will show that hockey is gen-
erally played during hours when there is apt to be little
public skatina. Schoolboy hockey games are played during
the late afternoon and early evening on Mondays when the

 

MR. VAN Corr is director of recreation in Essex County.

388

 

Special events are part of rink
activities. H ere is world champion
Carol Heiss at opening of

South Mountain Arena last year.

arena is closed to the public and operates with a skeleton
staff to give employees a day ofi. During this period three
games can be played. High-school hockey teams practice
during the early preschool hours before 8 AM. Pee Wee
hockey is usually played from 7 to 8:30 AM. on Saturday
mornings and senior hockey after the end of the public eve-
ning sessions at 11 RM.

Provisions for figure skating are made at hours not con-
venient for public skating sessions. During these sessions,
the ice is marked off in a grid, and a section of ice called a
“patch” is provided for each individual. Note that most
skating-club and public-patch sessions are from 6:00 to 8:00
during the week and in the earlier hours Saturday evening.

Skating instruction is an important rink activity. Both

An ice-resurfacing machine is a sound investment. This
one, shown in action at Branch Brook, completely resur-
faces the ice in one pass, reducing maintenance costs.

RECREATION‘

Successful operation of a rink

depends upon the development of a

comprehensive program and operat-

ing personnel to carry it out.

ICE RINKS

Harold J. Van Cot!

rinks offer individual and group instruction under the direc-

I tion of carefully selected teachers (who pay a percentage of
their fees for the privilege). Instruction is offered to the

I general public and to special groups through schools and
adult education programs. We believe that our cooperation

with the evening adult education programs of several com-
munities last year brought about the first such skating

courses offered in the country. In addition, a special public
I service instruction program ofiers the legally blind and
i deaf and dumb school children an opportunity for exciting
physical activity; The object of an instructional program
is to devel0p bctter skaters and therehy increase the enjoy-
ment of skating.

Cronp-skating activities are particularly valuable to the

 

Art-i/ieial ice provides long skating season. This lightly
rclad group is skating outdoors on a sunny [all day. (2 p-to-
the-minute weather forecasts aid engineer to plan ahead.

INOVEM BER 1959

 

recreation program. They provide skating time for pe0plc
who might not otherwise skate and promote skating for large
numhers of people who might not otherwise be reached. Sun-
day night at both rinks is set aside for skating parties spon-
sored by various community groups such as churches, serv-
ice clnbs, industrial groups, and so on. One church skating
party last year drew 1,400 participants and spectators.

An interesting aspect of our scheduling during school
hours is the time. offered to schools who wish to integrate
ice skating as part of their physical education program. It
is our firm belief that the intense programing, indicated by
the schedule shown, is necessary from the start. Vote that
on Saturday, January 10, 1959, the South Mountain rink was
in continuous operation for nineteen hours. The activities
programs on other days are almost as long. This kind of
schedule will do much to ensure the success of any skating
rink, especially onc which has as its purpose the providing
of healthful recreation for local citizens.

Personnel. Thc personnel who manage and operate the rink
form the cornerstone of successful rink operation. Ideally.
personnel should be strongly interested and experienccd in
both the management and operation of ice-rink facilities.
We have been extremely fortunate in Essex County from the
start in that our key personnel have met these requirements.
Additional employees have been trained on thc job by them.

Paul Camitta, who has served as manager of the rink at
Branch Brook since it opened, is an expericnced member of
our recreation staff and an energetic, dedicated employee.
To serve under Paul during thc first season, at Branch
Brook, we were fortunate enough to place an assistant rink
manager, Stephen Noir, a dedicated skater with a lifetime
career in rink management who is now managing South
Mountain Arena.

A key man in operating a skating rink is the rink engineer.
The importance of a skilled rink engineer cannot he minim-
izcd hecause proper ice conditions are necessary to good
skating, and ice conditions must snit thc activity in progress,
The engineer should not only be a refrigeration engineer but

 

lloekey is one clement of a comprehensive skating program.
Here are high school teams in action at the South .lfoun-
tain Arena. Hockey has expanded rapidly in the county.

38‘)

A
n
M
I
n
I
E
R
A
T
l
o
N

 

SOUTH MOUNTAIN ARENA
SCHEDULE OF EVENTS FOR “7 EEK OF JANUARY 5th, 1959

MONDAY (employees day off)

3:00- 4:00 P.M. Blind Children
4:00- 8:00 High School Hockey (games)
8:30-11 :00 Group Rental
TUESDAY
9:00-12:00 A.M. Public Session (housewives)
1:50- 2:50 PM. Far Brook School (group recre-
ation)
3:00- 5:30 Public Session (school children)
6:15- 8:15 Figure Skating (public patch)
8:30-11:00 Public Session
WEDNESDAY
7:00- 8:00 A.M. Livingston H.S. Hockey (practice)
10:00-12:00 Group Rental
1:50- 2:50 P.M. Far Brook School (group recre-
ation)
3:00- 5:30 Puhlic Session
6:00- 8:15 Group Rental
8:30-11:00 Public Session
THURSDAY
7:00- 8:00 A.M. Livingston H.S. Hockey (practice)
9:00-12:00 Public Session (houscwives)
1:50- 2:50 PM. Far Brook School (group recre-
ation)
3:00- 5:30 Public Session
6:15- 8:15 Figure Skating (public patch)
8:30-11:00 Public Session
11:30-12:30 Senior Hockey

FRIDAY
6:30- 8:00 A.M. West Orange H.S. Hockey (prac-
tice)
1:00- 2:30 P.M. Kimberly School (group recre-
ation)
3:00- 5:30 Public Session
6:00- 8:00 Group Rental
8:00-11:00 Public Session
11:30-12:30 Senior Hockey
SATURDAY
5:30- 6:30 AM. Morristown School Hockey (prac-
tice)
7:30- 8:30 Pee Wee Hockcy
9:00-10:00 Public Patch
10:00-12:30 P.M. Public Session
1:00- 2:30 Group Instruction
2:30- 5:30 Public Session
6:15- 7:45 Public Dance Session
8:00-11:00 Public Session
11:30-12:30 Senior Hockey
SUNDAY
7:00-10:00 A.M. Group chtal
10:00-12:30 PM. Senior Hockey
1:00- 2:30 Group Instruction
2:30- 5:30 Public Session
6:15- 8:15 Dance Group
8:30-10:30 Sacred Heart Parish
Skating Party

 

also experienced in rink opcrations. Our chief cngineer at
Branch Brook during the first year was John Hanst who had
worked with,Stephcn Noir at other rinks.

In addition to the various service personnel required in
similar activities, ticket scllers, doorlnen, checkroom attend-
ants, snack bar personnel, and office personnel, the operation
of a skating rink rcquires other specialized employees.

One is the skate shop manager. Here again we were very
fortunate in obtaining Al Corona, who had had eleven years’
experience in the skate shop at Madison Square Garden, in
New York City. As previously described, fitting icc skates
properly and sharpening and repairing them is a very
specialized craft. Al knows it thoroughly and has been able
to train other skate-shop personnel for us. An experienced
skate-shop manager can often help a skater inuneasurably
through pr0per fitting and by subsequent adjustment of the
blade and shoes after observing the skater in action.

Ice guards form another important group. Their job is to
maintain order in the rink, to help inexpericnced skaters,
and to render emergency first aid. Our rink guards, drawn
from interested young men from the county, were trained by
an experienced ice guard, John Worchol. The number of
guards needed depends upon the session in progress and the
size of the crowd. During our peak periods up to nine guards
are on duty at a single tin1c.

Although the desire to serve is important for all personnel
at a recreation facility, it is a special requirement of ice
guards. In constant contact with the skating public, they are

390

our first line of public relations. Thercfore their attitude
must be one of helpfulness, and they must exercise authority
with restraint and good humor while being ahle to deal will
any situation that might conceivably arise, Proper selection
of rink guards is a must.

An operating ice rink requires the help of extra personnel
during the weekend and school vacation peaks. It would be
very difficult to operate both Essex County rinks without th
regular service of additional part-time personnel. House-
wives, especially those with an interest in_skating and able to
work a few hours a week, were invaluable to us throughou
the season, and the teachers and students were glad to b
profitably employcd.

Maintaining the Ice. It has been mentioned that different
types of skating call for different types of ice, and without
becoming too technical, they are as follows:

HOCKEY. The ice should be hard and dry and without an)
snow to impcde the puck for this game. For hockcy practic
the heat in the indoor arena is turned off completcly. When
spectators are present, the indoor arena must be at com
fortable temperature and hard hockey ice is attained b,
lowering the temperature of the brine. During a game th
ice is resurfaced twice at the intermissions.

SPEED SKATIIGE. This calls for wet and soft ice to decreas
the friction between the blade and the ice surface and to al
low the racing skaters to dig into the ice as they corner. Th
water on the surface of the ice tends to How into any crack
and freeze there, smoothing the ice.

RECREATIO

FIGURE SKATING. Figure skaters don’t like hard ice but they
want it to be dry so that the marks made by their skates can
be seen. To increase visibility, the lights directly overhead
in the arena are turned off and only the side lights are used.
GEXEIIAL PUBLIC SKATING. There are the two types of ice
used for this. For young children the ice should be dry but
not too slick. Some snow and marks are actually desirable
and the indoor rink building temperature should be rela-
tively,eool. On a normal weekday evening, wet ice without
pnddlcs provides easy skating for regular skaters. However,
on weekends or holidays, when big crowds are expected and
when many poor skaters will be in attendance, the ice should
be dry and ha rd. Any water on the ice tends to discourage the
inexperienced skater, although in fact wet ice makes much
sier skating.

Haintaining proper ice is accomplished by adjusting the
refrigeration equipment to change the temperature of the
nine. This is the job of the engineer on duty and he must
know the daily schedule and anticipate the necessary adest-

Icnts. At an outdoor rink the weather is also an important
actor, and Up-to-the-niinute weather forecasts must he avail-
ble to enable the engineer to plan ahead. Considering the
lighly technical ice requirements, the need for experienced
ngincers who are also skaters is obvious.

However. there is more to maintaining the ice than merely
hanging the temperature of the brine. it must be regularly
esurfaced. This ean be done manually, but the experience
t Essex County has been that a Zamboni iee resurfacing

achine is a sound investment. The Zamboni can do the

b of a crew of men better and more efficiently. lts speed
f operation Provides more skating time, and, in the long
un, it costs less than a large maintenance crew.

The Zamboni automatically planes, washes, and squeegees
he ice, then applies hot water and wipes it with a towel to
ompletely resurface it in one pass. llot water tends to melt
he upper surface which then refreezes smooth and level. An

. ca should be set aside for dumping the. snow picked up by
re Zamboni, and the machine itself must be housed.

nsic. Music is an obvious requirement for all ice skating
inks. Our outdoor and indoor rinks are both equipped with
rofessional sound systems using broadcast-type tape re-
orders. variable-speed turntables and amplifiers. We are

lly equipped to make and edit our own tapes. This allows

to dub in announcements and to play varied innsic con-
nuonsly for hours.

The tape is basic and lcss costly to operate for public

ions. However, records permit a quiek change of music

dance and figure sessions and during special activities.

1 addition to the one in the control room. we have found a

cond record player at the rink side to be valuable for

lying musie for exhibition figure skaters and dancers.

We. believe that adequate initial investment for quality
recording and public address equipment proves more eco-
nomical in the long run.

Public Relations

When the investment and the effort going into the estab-
lishment of an ice skating rink are considered, the need to
attract the public is obvious. Our public relations program
is not merely geared to inform the public of the activities
of the park commission but also is definitely planned to
draw them into recreation activities.

\V e have enjoyed excellent relations with local newspapers
and their interest has kept the public informed of regular
and special events at the rinks. Essex County newspapers
have been extremely cooperative in helping our rinks suc-
cecd.

We were fortunate, too, in having our liraneh Brook out-
door rink the subject of the CBS television program “Let's
Take a Trip." Although the program was televised outdoors
during a driving snowstorm, we believe that it was an ex-
tremely successful and helpful venture.

Interest in rinks and skating can be generated through
cooperation with various other recreation departments and
such groups as schools; civic, church, industrial, fraternal,
and serviee organizations; and through Sunday night skat-
ing parties. Our staff is ready to speak anywhere in the
county, and, in effect has become a veritable lecture bureau
specializing in ice skating.

Maximum usefulness of any recreation facility can be
realized only if the general public is aware of the opportuni-
ties available; but the effort to create this awareness must
be continuous. You can’t have one big splash and relax.

Do It Right!

There is no question that the construction and operation
of an artificial ice skating rink is a bigger task than it ap-
pears at first glance. it can be done successfully and with
tremendous benefit to the community, if it is approached in
a businesslike manner, and with an eye on the future. Even
if admission fees are nominal. an ice skating rink can be
self-sufficient. Colleges and universities might well consider
a rink on this basis.

A filial word of advice. lnvest time before investing
money. Visit as many existing rinks as possible and talk
to as many experienced rink personnel as possible. When
the construction of an ice rink has become a serious con-
sideration, secure the services of a competent consultant.
This article has only been able to touch on the highlights of
rink construction and Operation. There are a thousand de-
tails between the lines. We of the Essex County Park Com-
mission will be more than happy to show our rinks and to
share our experiences with anyone who is interested. 

We are not a nation of softies but we could become one, if
proper attention is not given to the trend of our time, which
is toward the invention of all sorts of gadgetry to make life

easy and in so doing to reduce the opportunity for normal
physical health-giving exercise.-Richard Nixon.

 

“YE-H one 1959

391

LOCAL

AND

STATE
DEVELOPMENTS

Elvira Dclany

 

“KANSAS. Little Rock has passed a $4,950,000 capi-
A la] improvement bond issue with $500,000 earmarked
for parks and recreation. The first capital improve-
ment will be six tennis courts and an all-weather building.
This tennis center will be a memorial to state tennis chain-

pion Robert C. Walker who was killed in a sports car acci-
dcnt last year.

CALIFORNIA. The Long Beach Recreation Commission

has received a detailed report of the city’s preliminary mas-
ter plan. embracing a period extending to the year 2000,
when the estimated population will be 415,000. The park
and recreation unit of the study, whose primary purpose is
anticipated distribution of land use, attempts to integrate
the requirements of all ages into the system. Facilities in
adjacent cities and county areas were taken into consider-
ation.

The Fulton-El Camino Recreation and Park District in
Sacramento County has a development pr0gram calling for
seven park sites for the three-and-a-half-squarc-nlilc area as
well as a parkway system connecting the recreation-school-
park sites along the channels of Chicken Ranch and Strong
Ranch Sloughs. These areas will provide extensive park-
ways suitable for picnicking, hiking, and nature study.
Eventually a parkways trails system will encompass most of
the county’s stream areas. Estimated cost of the develop-
ment program for the seven park sitcs within the district
is about two and a half million dollars. Last November
bonds were authorized in the amount of 31.350.000.

In Santa Clara County voters have approved a $2,817,000
bond issue for acquisition and development of county parks,
to be financed by sales tax revenue. The county plan for
parks, recreation, and open spaces calls for an increase in
park and recreation land from approximately twenty thou-
sand to sixty thousand acres in a twenty-five-year period.
Proposed are mountain parks, valley floor, marine and
reservoir parks, as well as landscaped freeways, streamside
preserves, recreation roads, and hiking and riding trails.

Stockton. is developing a municipal dump site and slough
as a new recreation area, to be known as Van Buskirk Park
and Golf Course. Plans call for 94 of the 254- acres to be
used as an 18-hole golf course, 14 acres as park with picnic
and tot-lot facilities, and 80 acres as a regional park with
camping and archery areas, swimming pool, and baseball

392

 

diamonds. There will also be a marina along the San
Joaquin River at the edge of the park.

Los Angeles has received three and a half million dollars
for the portion of Criflith Park taken by the state highway
department as a freeway (see “Tlie Loss of Local Park Lands
to Highway Planning,” RECREATION, June 1957, page 201).

Palo Alto recently passed a referendum to purchase twelve
hundred acres of mountainous area adjacent to city limits
to complete its well-rounded park system. In Ventura, a
2,100-berth harbor is the first harbor program to be directly
financed from the state’s new $10,000,000 revolving fund
under the supervision of the Division of Small Craft Harbors
of the State Department of Natural Resources. Construc-
tion is slated for completion by late 1960.

COLORADO. The first unit of thc state-park system he-
came reality in June when the state leased a 3,765-acre area,
including a 750-acre reservoir, from the U.S.Corps of En-
gineers. The area, to be known as the Cherry Creek State
Recreation Area, will acquire an additional nine hundred
acres with termination of a private agricultural lease after
January 1, 1960. At present, boating, water skiing, boat and
bank fishing arc the only activities for which facilities are

r

This unusual playground pavilion in. Hamilton Park, Fort
Wayne, Indiana, lzas a hyperbolic paraboloid roof, pro-
virling a protected outrloor recreation area not hampered
by supports. Overall dimension is fifty-six square feet.

available. Development plans include installation of a mar-
ina, bathing bcach, bathhouse, picnic areas, and eventually
tent and trailer campgrounds.

In Atlams County, Metropolitan District #50 has com-
pleted a new combination basehall-softball field and is com-
pleting a combination indoor-outdoor swimming pool,
threc neighborhood parks, ranging from two to five acres,
four park-school playgrounds, an archery range. and a
model airplane flying circle. Recreation School District
#14 has a new combination indoor-outdoor pool and is de-
veloping a six-acre neighborhood park. The Thornton area
has a new bathhouse; the Brighton area is developing a
twenty-seven-acre park; and the North Jeffco Recreation
District is completing a ncw recreation center.

CONNECTICUT. In Fairfax, a town of 2,500, a private
contractor erecting a new oflice building has set aside a good
section of the basement as quarters for a teen canteen and
director’s oflice. The recreation commission will lease i
for a five-year period at a dollar a year.

Torrington is celebrating its thirtieth anniversary in rec-
reation this year the National Recreation Association as-

RECR EATIO-

 

 

sisted in establishing the department). This city of thirty
thousand never had to purchase a piece of playground or
park property; each area has been donated by a civic-
minded person. This summer it dedicated Storrs Park,
a twelve-acre playground donated by llobert S. Storrs,
former vice-president of the Torrington Manufacturing
Company.

The Greenwich Planning and Zoning Commission has
approved a Nil-acre site for a $700,000 municipal golf
course, adjacent to the Westchester County Airport. The.
course, to be designed by Robert Trent Jones, will be
bounded on the east by the proposed llyrarn River Gorge

Park.

FLORIDA. A park in Maatee County has been dedicated in
honor of Royal 5. Kellogg for his work in forestry in the
state and county. The state’s newest park in Volusia County,
fifteen miles south of NewSmyrna Beach, is named for John
Bartram, botanist and naturalist to King George III of Eng-
land, and early explorer of northeast Florida. The park
faces the Atlantic Ocean on the east.

Fort Landerdale has added two new pools, a modern li-
brary, a $385,000 stadium, and a small boat marina. Plans
have been drafted for a new tourist setup, to include a large
community center, shulileboard courts, and bowling. Ilia-
leah’s new pool, dedicated this summer, is the largest public
pool in the state, 165' by 75'. The city had added ten per-
cent to all utility bills, earmarking half for a capital outlay

fund. Thus the pool was paid for in cash—$268,500—when
it was built.

IDAI-IO. Earlier this year the state fish and game depart-
ment installed the first of a series of prefabricated concrete
boat ramps at the Farragut Wildlife Management Area on
Lake l’end Oreille near Coeur d'Aleae. Planks for the ramp
measured 4" by 1’2” by 10’ and cost $7.60 each; the cover
was 1’6” for the entire length of the ramp. Transportation
‘, and placing of the ramps cost approximately $10 each.

   
 
  
 
   
     
    
  

KANSAS. Topeka opened two new neighborhood pools this
summer. Both are 50’ by 100' and include bathhouses, di-
l atomaeeous earth filters, and hard-surfaced parking lots.
The city is constructing a third neighborhood pool in a
newly annexed area of fifteen thousand population. This
will give the city four new neighborhood pools and one ccn-
' tral standard fifty-meter pool—all built in a four-year pe-
riod. Topeka also plans construction of one more neighbor-
hood pool within the next three years. This completes a
ten-year long-range plan for pools, adopted five years ago.

Anthony will have a new $85,000 pool, approved by a three-
I to-one vote.

MICHIGAN. Battle Creek is developing GlO-acre Charles
Binder I’ark, deeded to the city by the widow of the traet’s
late owner. The area has a northowoods atmosphere, with
'about three hundred acres of timberland. Some of it is very
, hilly, aml a golf course is being develOped at Sunset Ridge.
Picnic grounds, biking trails, and horseback riding will all
be available in the park, and there are plans for a domestic
- zoo. The area offers a ski run with ski lifts planned.

Novmrnsa 1959

 

Canopied refreshment liar in Evansville, Indiana, Commu-
nity Ceater, was hrst exhibited at Cliieago’s Columbian Ex-
position of 1893. The teen-agers raised $1.50!} to have the bar
moved to the eeater which is housed in a eonverted rail-
road station t'see RECREATION, Youentber 1958, page 305).

MISSISSIPPI. Oxford, a town of five thousand, recently
acquired Avent Park, a twenty-eight-acre area donated by a
local citizen. The area is well located; and, although any-
thing but level, m uch of it is wooded and lends itself to many
activities. The town is hard at work improving its recreation
program, has appointed a five-member recreation board,
and employs a full-time superintendent, Dan Matthews, a
graduate of the University of Georgia.

NEVADA. Two parks in Las Vegas have been renamed for
two of the city’s outstanding inayors. Cragin Park honors

the late E. W. Cragin, and Baker Park honors C. D. Baker.
NORTII DAKOTA. The state boasts twenty-seven new

swinnning pools built in the last three years. most in com-
munities of less than one thousand population. Biszaarek

Opened a $250,000 pool this year and Fargo is constructing
a new $141,000 pool. #

 

Planning Biader l’ark ( see .lfichi'gali): from left to right,
Lionel Hayes, ski arehiteet: Dr. Leland P. Slu'pp: Mayor
Russell Worgess: Charles I". Boehler, park plaaning cone
sultant; and .‘frch Flaanery, direetor of recreation. parks,
and buildiags. l’laas inelnde golf course, :00, ski lifts.

393

 

MAKING
CITIES
MORE LIVABLE

“\Ve Need Breathing Spaces . . .”

6 6 I‘ IS WONDERFUL to have national parks and forests to
‘I go to, but they are not enough. It is not enough to
make a trip once a year or to see these places, occa-
sionally, over a long weekend. We need to have places close
to hand, breathing spaces in cities and towns, little plots
of ground where things have not changed; green bclts, oases
among thc piles of steel and stone. Children especially need
this contact, for they have not as yet been weaned from the
primal needs of the race. We need, in addition to such
places, some areas large enough to be set aside as wilder-
ness, where therc is no dcsign, no planning whatsoever, no
management of plants or animals, wherc people may sense
what this planet was like before man achieved the power
for revamping it to his needs. Such regions, whilc they

W7 ~

m » _
 as; .

might seem to have no economic use, would act as buffers
to a civilization that might destroy man’s equilibrium and
sanity. It is perhaps not without reason that Thoreau said,
“In wilderness is the preservation of the world.”—From. es-
say “Our Need of Breathing Space” by Sigurd F. Olson, in
the book Perspectives on Conservation: Essays on America’s
Natural Resources.” Published by Resources for the Future,

Washington, D. C., 1958.

A Basic Question

“ . we, the citizens, have got to see that we get plans

that are really balanced, or that pose clear understandable
alternatives. Thcre are different types of plans and different
items to he purchased for our money, depending on a clear
statement of alternative objectives—which we so rarely get.
Is our city and region better off to spend, say $500,000,000
on highways, or to spend half that on playgrounds, green
areas, local community facilities and operations that may
give greater happincss, and by keeping people pleasurably
where they are, minimize the load on highways, and hence
reduce their cost? These matters are indeed interlinked,
though they are rarely presented that way. These are the
balanced alternatives that you must insist on, rather than

394.

 

accept the single spectacular expenditure that some energetic
public official or automobile club is plugging—From an
address before the National Conference of Catholic Chari-
ties in September 1958, as reported in: The Catholic Chari-
ties Review, January, 1959, in which Albert Mayer, archi-
tcct and town planner, presented a paper entitled “Some
Thoughts on Meeting the Challenge of an Exploding Urban

Civilization.”

Overpopnlated

Lcwis Mumford decried the increasing tendency toward
excessive population densities, in a serics of articles in The
New Yorker, dealing with New York City’s traffic problems.
In one hc stated:

“Instead of maximizing facilities for motorcars, we
should maximize the advantagcs of urban life. Parks, play-
grounds, and schools; theaters, universities, and concert
balls; to say nothing of a quiet night's sleep and a sunny
outlook whcn one wakes up, are more important than any
bcnefits to be derived from the constant use of thc automo-
bilc. To accomplish this improvement, we must devise a
fundamental change in the city’s wliolc pattern. The plain
fact is that the high-density city is obsolete. . . .”

“Beauty Is a Protest"

“Anothcr basic characteristic of the renewed city con-
cerns a statc of mind we have about beauty. Don’t you think
it's time we stopped apologizing for bcauty? Why should
we acccpt the pseudotheory that beauty without practicality
is no reason for beauty? To create a park just because it
makes a more beautiful city isn’t reason cnough? . . . Beauty
is an enormously strengthening vital force in the city itself.
Beauty is a protest against disorder, dirt, and decay. Ugli-
ncss promotes disorder and disorder promotes decay, and
decay winds up in the kind of slum-ridden areas we see
around our central core.

There is an up-cycle that can operate in cities, just as
there is the all-too-well-known down-cycle. When older
areas are beautified and madc places which lift people’s
hearts and heads, places where people want to live and raise
families and arc proud to live, the up-cycle starts, and ex-
perience has proven it has a remarkable momentum.”—
From an address entitled “America Is Our Cities” by Roy
W. Johnson, director, Advanced Research Projects Agency,
Washington, D. C., and former director of ACTION, given
before the Greater Cincinnati Conference Workshop in Sep-
tember 1958, when he discussed the space-age city.

RECREATION

  
 
 
 
   
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
    
  
   
 

influence the decision on whether to lease or self-

operate park concessions. Local custom in a partic-
ular area may indicate a preference for one method or
the other. Existing regulations or statutory limitations
have a direct bearing on which method is used. So also
do personnel and financial problems. The desire to man-
age concessions also varies among agency administrators
according to the amount of experience they have had with
concessions operations.

The only justification for the selling of warcs within a
park or recreation area is that it constitutes a public serv-
ice. Then, factors affecting the public welfare are of prime
importance. Each park agency must determine if this can
best be done by itself or by a conccssionairc.

When leasing concessions, be sure to give careful thought
to whether service or proEt motives are being given priority.
The primary consideration should be public service, but
private individuals or groups will not be interested in a
concession operation if there is no possibility of a reason-
able return on their investment. This fair rcturn may not
be possible if the agency insists on certain policies or serv-

ClRCUMSTANCES peculiar to individual situations oftcn

ices, such as a reduced return on some items, in order to
promote desirable uses or practices within the park or rec-
rcation area. Ultimate nct returns must therefore be con-
sidcred along with public service rendered.

’inancing

A method must be found under existing statutes and reg-
ulations for financing the initial investment. Among the
methods used to provide funds are appropriations from
general tax funds, mill levies, bond issues, loans, gifts and
private contributions.

A flexible budgct must be prepared, based on estimated
expenditures for overhead depreciation, contingencies, and
merchandise, in addition to standard maintenance and op-
eration requirements.

Finally, the agency should discuss all the aspects of the
Operation with competent legal counsel. It is his respon-
sibility to interpret all governing statutes and regulations,
determine the degree of liability and the limits of author-
ity. l‘lave him prepare and approve all final contracts, and
determine the types and coverage of insurance applicable
to the operation. Require insurance for all of the following
hazards: public liability, firc, property damage, theft, surcty
bonds for staff, products, and vehicle.

 

Based on material in Food and Merchandise Sales in Public
Parks, published cooperatively by the Michigan State Uni-
versity and American institute of Park Executives Park Edu-
cation Program. This is one of their series of publications.

Rovauaen 1959

CONCESSION MANAGEMENT

Factors concerning the public welfare, which
are‘the concern of both park and recreation agencies . . .

CONSIDERATIONS
Public Benefit

To operate a concession in the interests of the public. it must
be done efficiently and economically. either by the agency or by
a conccssionairc. whichever way is best. In deciding. some con-
siderations are:

0 Protection of the public against possible fraud and exploitation.
Number of hours it can be made available.

Type and variety of merchandise to be sold.

Maintaining standards of cleanliness.

Maintaining proper attitudes and relationships between employ-
ees and customers as park patrons.

0 Providing sufficient staff, or at least having them on call at all
times to handle emergencies.

0 Maintaining standards of structure and equipment repair.

0 Maintaining reserve stock of merchandim.

Advantages to Agency

Certain advantages may legitimately be realized by the park or
recreation agency through leasing to a conccssionairc. These should
be considered carefully before making any decision:

0 Definite income, with little responsibility in addition to super-
vision.

0 Reduction in overall administrative and clerical costs.

0 Financial benefit from greater expcrience contributed by the
conccssionairc.

0 Smaller capital investment.

0 More flexibility with respect
mcct unexpected situations.

0 Hiring and releasing employees without civil service entangle-
ments.

0 Adding temporary help for seasonal employment.

to personnel procedures to

lN'I‘ERRELATIONSllll’S OF PUBLIC AC CNCIES

The growing complexity and interrelationship of public
agencies is emphasized in an annual report of the president
of the Minneapolis Board of Park Commissioners. lie
states:

“Even as it has become apparent in our national life that we can-
not exist alone without working in concert with other nations. so
has it also been demonstrated in our municipal government and in
its various subdivisions that we cannot act on a unilateral basis. but
must, with increasing frequency, consult with a great number of
other agencies, both public and private, in attempting to reach a
solution to our problems. This condition is nowhere bctter demon-
strated than in the impact of the new interstate and state highway
development program as it affects the City of Minneapolis.”

He then reports on a meeting with the planning engineers
of the state highway department. with reference to its pro-
posed program of highway dcvclolnucnt and the. close co-
operation between the park board and the board of educa-
tion, both in the joint development of park-school sites and,
to some. extent, in the integration of programs. This co-
operation has necessitated frequent tncetings on the staff
level and also between the two policy-making hoards.

393

I Personnel |

RECREATION MANPOWER

ECREATION IS IN the embarrassing situation of not
B knowing the status of its own profession because no
national personnel inventory has ever been made.
This will no longer be so after the US. Bureau of Labor
Statistics conducts its nationwide survey of recreation per-
sonnel in 1960. (See RECREATION, October I959, page 305. )
The survey embraces social welfare personnel in welfare,
health, rehabilitation, and recreation settings in voluntary
and government agencies. It is heing sponsored by the Com-
mittee on Survey of Social Welfare Manpower in 1960 of
the National Social Welfare Asscmbly. Through this eom-
1nittee all the major national functional agencies and organ-
izations, both voluntary and government, are participating
in the study.

The survey will eover:
0 Age, sex, marital status.

0 Place of employment and whether the employing agency
is voluntary or governmental; local, state, or national.

o The type of programs in which social welfare personnel
are engaged; the position level held, such as recreation
worker, supcrvisor, administrator, teacher; the specializa-
tion, such as Group-work research, psychiatric social work,
etcetera.

0 Cu rrent salary.

0 Working conditions, such as the regularly scheduled
wcekly hours of work, length of paid vacation, amount of
paid sick leave, insurance provisions, retirement plans
where the employing agency pays in whole or in part, and
car ownership for work and who pays operating cxpenses.

0 Length of employment—in present organization, total in
all social welfare organizations, in fields other than social
welfare,

0 And, finally, information 011 edUcation—undergraduate
and graduate fields of concentration.

This will be a sample survey, thus will not include every
community or individual worker in the United States. The
sampling procedure has been developed by the Bureau of
Labor Statistics, using counties. This sample of counties
(about five hundred are designed to represent the entire
country, in nine regions, and provide data by metropolitan-
nonmetropolitan character within five broad regions:
Northeast, South, North, Central, and West).

Becausc of the large amount of work involved in prepar-
ing lists of employee names in the largest concentrations of
populations, the Bureau of Labor Statistics sample design
provides for a two-stage sample in twenty areas—a sample
of agencies and a sample of individual reereation and social
welfare employees from these agencies. These twenty metro-
politan areas are Boston, New York City, Newark, Paterson-
Clifton-Passaic (New Jersey), Philadelphia, Pittsburgh,
Buffalo, Baltimore, Washington, Houston, Chicago, Detroit,
Cleveland, Cincinnati, Minneapolis-St. Paul, Kansas City,

396

Milwaukee, Los Angeles—Long Beach, San Francisco——
Oakland, and St. Louis.

The questionnaire will be mailed directly from the Bureau
of Labor Statistics to each social welfare employee with a
franked return envelope for reply. All questionnaires are
confidential and no identifying name appears.

Tabulation and analyses of the returns are the responsi-
bility of the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The kinds of data
and the form in which they will be presented are decided
jointly by the Bureau of Labor Statistics and the survey
committee. A number of federal agencies are cooperating
in this study in such a manner that the local colleetion of
names will not be necessary. The Bureau of Indian Affairs,
Bureau of Prisons, Armed Services, and Veterans Adminis-
tration are sending the names of thcir recreation and social
welfare personnel directly to the Bureau of Labor Statistics
to select the sample and mail the questionnaires. The Bureau
of Public Assistance. Children’s Bureau, Office of Vocational
Rehabilitation, and Public Health Service will ask the re-
spective state agencies to submit data on all their state and
local government social welfare employees, using the same
questionnaire with pertinent additions. Their findings will
be analyzcd state by state, for use by the respective states.
The findings will also be integrated with those of the direct
questionnaire sent out by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, in
order to provide overall figures.

The following timetable for the survey has been set:

0 July l—August 15, 1959—organization of state eom-
mittees.

0 August 15—September 15, 1959—appointment of local
survey rcprcsentatives hy state ehairmen.

0 September lS—Novemher 1, 1959—assembling of lists
of employers of social welfare personnel.

0 November 1, 1959—January 2, 1960~collection of
names of individual social welfare workers.

0 Fcbruary 2, 1960—mailing of questionnaires to indi-
vidual social welfarc workers.

0 March 1, 1960—mailing of second questionnaire to non-
respondents.

0 March 21, 1960—follow-up of nonrespondents.

The period of tabulation and analysis of returns and
preparation of the report will be carried on during the
spring and summer.

There are two important and specific ways in which rec-
reation agencies can help:

0 Local recreation executives should furnish a list of their

recreation employces when requested to do so by the local

survey representative and

0 Encourage these employees to complete and return

promptly the questionnaire when it is received. (Indi-

vidual workers and agencies will not be identified.)
The present survey of recreation and social welfare man-

power will give recreation its an: national personnel in-

RECREATION

   
 
   
  
  
   
   
   
 
   
  
   
  
 
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
 
 

HOLD THAT LINE!
W. C. Sutherland

P413 NATIONAL recruiting effort has
been steadily increasing. Distribu-
m of recruiting materials has been
't'ensive and the number of state and
al recruiting committccs has in-
eat-ed. Individual professional work-
s are carrying more responsibility for
- ruiting activities. Recreation as a
ofession is recognized by more and
re vocational guidance people, em-
oyment organizations, and the general
thlic.
This would lead one to believe there is
.- progress on the recruiting front and
t enrollment of professional recrea-
n students is increasing. The facts,
waver, show otherwise. The annual

. SUTHERLAND is director of the Na-
! Recreation Association Recreation
.omtei Service.

 

 

 

- 'ific Northwest 2
TOTAL 31

';t 1959

- tory and will provide basic information that will aid the
tilt)’ projects now under way to advance the recreation
noventent and enhance the status of the recreation profes-
‘ion. The National Recreation Association has conducted
cgional surveys of recreation personnel as well as studies
f specialized recreation workers. ln 1953-55 the Associ-
tion conducted a study of fourteen Southern states (see
I ECREATION, September 1955, page 319) and published
to findings in Recreation as a Profession in the Southern
egion ($3.75). This year the Association published its

Bachelor
'1;
g u:
“STRICT -5 .E
'f; g
_=' i? ._
(:2: ,
w England 2
'ddl-e Atlantic I 5
Itltern I 8
. at Lakes 8
'd-l-ost l
lht'sl 2
Tie Southwest 6

—————————_—-—_—

results of the first national study of hospital recreation
workers, Recreation in Hospitals ($2.00) .

The National Recreation Association is cooperating with
the liureau of Labor Statistics and the National Social Wel-
fare Assembly in conduct of the 1960 survey. The Associa-
tion has made a financial contribution and is providing
personnel services. W. C. Sutherland, director of the Asso-
ciation's llecreation I’crsonncl Service, is a member of the
survey committee.

llcre is another milestone for the profession! :,‘,."

student inventory madc again this year
by the Association’s National Advisory
Committee on Personnel, reveals that of
sixty-five colleges and universities rc-
porting major curricula, only thirty-
four reported recreation. The total num-

ber of degrees granted, 503, is a consid-
erable drop from the proceeding year.
The following tables continue to show
the condition which exists and points

out, rather specifically, the urgent need
for the profession to double its effort. #

COMPARISON OF NUMBER OF SCHOOLS REPORTING
AND DEGREES GRANTED 1951, 1956, 1957, 1958, 1959

 

        
     

Number of Schools
Reporting

 
   

Number of Degrees

Granted

 

 

DISTRICT

--——r— ——-——.

 

-——u———_——— —-——————“

      
     
   
   
   
   
    
 
    

New England
Middle Atlantic
Southern
Great Lakes
Midwest

 

 

-_.—_.—.——— -__——_—__-——__-_.._____—_——_—_—

 

Southwest 2

 

 

Pacific Southwest 10
Pacific Northwest 3 | 3

TOTAL 53

 

    

NUMBER OF DEGREES AWARDED IN 1958

TOTA [.

Doctor

Master Director l

—_—-—

 

 

F or further information regarding.
any of these products, write directly
to the manufacturer. Please mention!
that you saw it in RECREATION.

Jean W'acllteli

 

'l‘wo for Christmas

Christmas is just around the bend and the time has come
to plan decorations and craft projects. One item, of many
uses, is the 3-D Glitter Pen,” a tube containing both glue
and glitter, with which you write as with a pen. This glitter
can be applied permanently to cloth, paper, leather, wood.
metal. porcelain, glass, or practically any surface, to produce
a sparkling, three-dimensional effcct. Decorations made
with this substance may be wiped off with a cloth to eorrect
errors, applications dry in minutes, do not Hake. Cloth on
which it has been used can be hand-washed and then ironed
on the reverse side. Its uses in a recreation program are
limited only by your imagination. The Glitter-Pen is avail-
able in six colors—gold, silver, red. green and blue, and
multi, a combination of the other five colors. The tubes
come individually in single colors, or packaged in sets of
three. For complete information, write the 0. E. Linck Com-
pany, Clifton. New Jerscy.

Authentic, original stained-
glass designs have been litho-
graphed on special paper that
needs only to be oiled with veg-
etable, baby, or mineral oil,
colored with wax crayons. and
applied to the window, to
achieve a genuine stained-glass
window effect. The Stained
Glass Craft” Christmas window comes in nine designs 011
twenty-four “panes” that can be trimmed and arranged to
fit any size window. These can also be used as wall murals.
After the paper has been oiled and colored, it is attached
to the window with cc'lophane tape. No electric Iloodlights

are required. For complete details, write Stained Glass
Craft. Waukesha, Wisconsin.

 

0 A lightweing plastic ball, of accurate trajectory and
high speed, called the Bloop Ball.” has been developed by
the Frank Plastics Corporation. The Bloop Ball is particu-
larly suited for indoor use, as it is not heavy enough to knock
anything over or hurt anyone if hit. Since it throws fast
and true. the Bloop Ball provides good, safe indoor sport.
For details write Mr. L. C. Frank, Jr., at the company, 91
Pallister, Detroit 2, Michigan.

0 A new and unusual surfacing matcrial for indoor and out-
door areas is Turf-Tred, made from the shredded bark of
hardwood logs. lts dustfree nature, springy surface, and
tendency to stay in place, make it an apprOpriate covering
for such areas as playgrounds, bridle and garden paths,
parking areas, and indoor arenas where resiliency and a
softer than normal surface are required—such as for horse
shows, various athletic events, circuses, and so on. For de-
tails, write Paygro, lnc., Chillicothe, Ohio.

* Have been tried out or used by the author.

398

 

I
o Decorating a large'
wall area at low or
moderate cost is a tal
order to fill, but the
Glenview Products‘H
people have come
close to it with thei
giant-size colored
photographic muralsl
These are suitable for
offices, reception
rooms, lobbies, clu
rooms. or practically any wall on which you’d like to place
one. Shown in picture here is a black-and-white version of
the color original, “Mountain Retreat.” A full-color bro-I
chure. illustrating and describing this and other Grandview
full-color murals, with prices and dimensions, is available
for ten cents. Write to Glenview Products, 322 N. Jefferson,
Milwaukee 2. Wisconsin.

 

 

o The Gibson Porto-Goal is a
portable basketball standard
that can be used indoors or out.
Its heavy iron base contains a
built-in dolly, with large rub-
bcr or metal casters on which
to move it. In the Match Play
l’orta-Goal, shown in the ac-
companying photograph, the
backboard is offset four feet
from the upright. 0f three-
inch, heavy-duty steel-pipe con-
struction. none of the Porta-
Goals will tip over because of

the way weight is distributed in the base. Safe and easily
assembled, they can also be completely dismantled for stor-
age. The goal utilizes the latest official Wilson backboar

assembly. For complete information about all Porta-Goals,

write Gibson Porta-Goal. 370 Grand Avenue. Oakland 10,

California.

0 A free, all-at-one-glance sport
and special events calendar is bein
offered to recreation directors an
personnel managers by the Maste
Lock Company.‘' As can be see
from the photograph. there is am
ple space provided after each dat
to record future athletic events, im
portant meetings, and other hap
penings. lt covers the school yea
rather than the calendar year, i
printed in two colors, measure
18%” by 24%", contains prote
tive metal strips t0p and bottom, with double eyelets fo
easy hanging. Copies may be obtained from the above, De
partment T. Milwaukee 45, Wisconsin.

RECRE \TIO

m

INDEX OF ADVERIISERS

American Handicrafts Company

Page .I

Inside Back Cover

American Playground Device Company  40l

 

CLASSIFIED

RATES: Words In regular type $.t5 each
Wards In boldface type 8.25 each
Mtnlmum ad accepted

33.00

 

ADVERTISING

DEADLINES: Copy must be received by
the fifth of the month preceding date at
the issue In which ad I: desired.

COPY: Type—or clearly print—your message and the address to whleh you wish
replies sent.'UnderItne any words you want to appear ln botdrue type.

Semi copy with remirmnre to:
litcnlznlua‘ Classihed Advertising, 8 West Eighth Street. New York II. New York.

 

 

Anderson Ceramlcs Company .-  402 “-
IIEI.I’ WANTED handicapped educahlc chil- modern equipment and fa-
' ' . . Jr?" at!” 5'2] )‘cars. Col- cilities available. Positions
camone corporahon  “h P ' 364 I R 90$???" (ll'r‘ivior' 1‘” lettc Braduatc. major .in 0pm to college graduate-s
. Spunk! ’ c or p .nnmilg' w' IIWIII’ Work "I. Novelist" with major in recreation or
Castello JUCIO Eqmpment  ' ‘CIOI'mj-‘n 3”" (IITCCIUIK "I" preferred. \Vrttc llltnots "(Nan-0" MNHPY “.hl'r}.
rccrmlmn deparmivm.  Childrm'g "owiml'sc'lo'd' included subcrriiriri firm
. ary comnicnsura e w: 1 25?] N t] C] rt; 3! _ I. _ , , u '
I:thng ROIIBI' Skates  Back Cover Qualincmio‘ns. Coma,” Dr. Clgcagntilrdhlliéds. ".9 war/s. 3.2 t'xpf‘l'lt'lln re:
(,race .\I. Sawyer, SupcrIn- 'lllm'd- ~ In“ "It: WIN)
Exposition Press m..." ..  402 I tcndcnt. Woodward State "Hawaiian11wruvi5” £4|5.()(.):. promotional up-
. “05‘?th and SChOM' W“""' for California State l‘lOspi. INIIiIUIIIIFt'ai‘I'Ilit‘rt-g conga)"
v wart. oss'a. tals, Opportunity to "In" cc H-ncils. rltr‘. late '1'!"-
The Hmble company 362 and conduct individual pa- :mns'l lizard. 801 Capltlol
I Reel-cation \Vorker I. in lien! recreation as well as . wnuc. . acramcnm. .a l-
GOId Medal Pmduas company 363 hospital-school for severely special group activities; fornia.
The pubiiaher «autumn no responsibility for service‘s or items ndvertierd lac-re.
H a R Manufacturing Company . 364 I
Institutional Cinema Service 399 I “r”—
me 8. out an .... .... __ 4 . . .
Ja “Dancer c p Y 02 I JUDO UNIFORMS of Championship Weight
I ,- .
The MacGregor Company . , 401 ‘ Pigeon” Brand—Kodokan Recommended
COAT: Double-Hollow Weave Reinforced
The Monroe Company .___. . 402 ‘ o .
PANTS and BEL'I: Single Dl‘lll

 

 

., Inside Front Cover I

364 I

NRA Book Center _.

Immediate Deliver '

 ’CASTELLO

National Studios ..._ ____

Raven Industries  Inside Back Cover

91:50

 

Stroblite Company ...__ ...... as... 402 New York City EQUIPMENT COMPANY

T- F- Ward“ ‘3 WWW - 400 I 30 Em TENTII smear, NEW YORK 3, New Your:
United Fund .. ...... new... 357

VogeI-Peterson Company 362 ’

Voit ._._...-.,._..-.._.....m.____ 363 I ARE YOU SATISFIED WITH THE . . .

Wenger Music Equipment Company 364

Classified Advertising
fine/matron, .7

Here's your chance to list, at small cost. information such as:

—MOVIES—i

For Every Occasion

at

RECREATION - EDUCATION
loMM SOUND

0 IIpr \Vantcd

0 Positions \Vantcd

- \Vorkshops and Conferences

0 Educational Opportunities

Block & White - Color

0 Services Available 0 Items for Exchange

Represe nting

Walt Disney - Columbia - Warner

United Artists - Paramount For further information and rows Icrito:

Send far dl-page FREE CATALOG

IISIITIITION-Al CHM SERVICE. INC.
41 Unlon Square — New York 3, N. Y.

Rscnmrrox MAGAZINE Cmssmsn Ans

8 \Vcst Eighth Street. New York 11. N. Y.

 

. . . c
When writing to our ads-crlrwrs plow- nmmnn Rtrnrnmx. 3D

Non-moan 1959

Magazine Articles

 

ARTS AND ACTIvITIES, September 1959
Fall Buyers Guide.
Reserved for Youth (Oakland’s Children's

Community Theatre), Florence Van Eck
Birkhead.

Paper Work on a Grand Scale, Gina Della
Basca.

TIIE CAMP FIRE GIRL, September 1959
The Secret Word Is Play.

NATIONAL PARKS MAGAZINE, September 1959
Special Education Issue.

THE YWCA, October 1959
The Science Directed World as Background
for the Arts. Richard Glenn Getteil.

VOLUNTEERS FOR MENTAL HEALTH, Mary
Mach-in.

Art for Our Sake, Irma Schmidt.

Leased FREE!

Stop wasting time recarding inventory casts,
handing out balls and paying tap prices for low
quality balls. Install this attractive, cast-cutting
TFT Table Tennis Ball Meter NOWI

 

leosed FREE to responsible agencies an $10.00
deposit subiect to refund. Trouble-free aperatian
assured—return machine for FREE repair. Attrac-
tive hard wood and metal cabinet—7V2 1 8‘!) x 15
inches high. Easy to install. Holds 120 balls—
dispenses each for 10¢. Choice of 3 grades of
top quality bolls. Use profit to maintain and re-
place paddles, nets, etc. No risk gu'orantee. Send
for free folder: "Stop Wasting Their Time."

T. f. TWARDZIK 8. (0.,

mrnatt‘tl’ "
SHENANDOAH, PENNA.

Recordings

Enrichment Records:

TEDDY ROOSEVELT AND THE ROUGH RIDERS
and COMMODORE PERRY AND TIIE OPENING
OF JAPAN (ERL 118) ; ALExANDER HAMIL-
TON AND TRADERS OE TIIE FAR WEST (ERL
117); THE MONROE DOCTRINE and F. D.
ROOSEvELT’s FOUR FREEDOAIS SPEECH (EAD
4); GEORGE WASIIINGTON’S FAREWELL AD.
DRESS and THE MAYFLOR'ER COMPACT (EAD
3). Enrichment Materials, 246 5th Ave.,
New York I. All 12-inch. 33 1/3 rpm. $5.29
(school and library), $5.95 (retail).

 
   

Records for the Children’s Hour:

 

HOLIDAYS (Christmas, Thanksgiving, New
Year’s Day, Valentine’s Day. Easter, Birth-
days); MY FAMILY (My Family, In the
Evening, Going with the Family, My House,
Pets, In the Morning, A World to Know,
Something to Do); THROUGH THE YEAR
(Spring, Summer, Autumn, Winter) ; TIIE
WORLD I LIVE IN (Creation, Beauty, The
Wide World and I, Order, Life). Gencva
Records, Westminster Press, Witherspoon
Bldg., Philadelphia 7. Each album, four
7-inch records, 78 rpm. $2.75 per album.

THE UGLY DUCRLING and Other Tales by Hans
Christian Andersen (TC 1109), read hy
Boris Karlofl. Cacdmou Puhlishers, 277 5th
Ave” New York 16. 33 1/3 rpm. $5.95.

Beaks & Pamphlets
Received

 

generation

Magazine Binders
$3.50 each

 

0 Heavy simulated leather
0 Gold stamped

0 Holds year's issue

0 Opens flat for changes

 

Art, Cra fts

CERAMICS, Vincent A. Roy. McGraw-Hill, 330
W. 42nd St., New York 36. Pp. 278. $7.25.

CUB CAPERS (Projects for Cub Scouts), Rita
Guzzi and Natalie Fantony. Dennison Mfg.

i Co., Framingham. Mass. Pp. 40. $.50.

Order from:

Recreation Magazine

8 West 8th Street
New York ll, NY. i

400

 

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

FIETY YEARS OE MODERN ART, Emile Langui.
Frederick Praeger, 15 W. 47th St., New
York 36. Pp. 335. $6.50.

KITEs, Larry Kettlekamp. Wm. Morrow, 425
4th Ave., New York. Pp. 48. $2.75.

MAKE YOUR OWN ATROCITIES WIT]! TOOTH
AND NAIL, George Daniels. Simon 81 Schus-
ter, 630 5th Ave., New York. Pp. 72. $1.95.

MODERN ART IN THE MAKING (2nd ed.), Ber-
nard S. Myers. McGraw-Hill, 330 W. 42nd
St., New York 35. Pp. 436. 310.95.

PLASTIC MAGIC, C. B. Colby. Coward-McCann,
210 Madison Ave., New York 16. Pp. 48.
$2.00.

POTTERY TIIROUGII THE AGEs, R. G. Haggar.
Roy Publishers, 30 E. 74th St., New York.
Pp. 74. $2.95.

Biography

ERNEST TIIOMPsON SETON, NATURALIST, Shan-

non and Warren Garst. Julian Messner, 8
W. 40th St., New York 18. Pp. 192. $2.95.

HEART OF A CHAMPION, TIIE, Bob Richards.

Fleming H. Revell Co., Westwood, N. .1. Pp.
159. $2.50.

LUTHER BURDANK, NATURE’s HELPER, Lillian

M. Bragdon. Abingdon Press, 201 8th Ave. l
5., Nashville 2, Tenn. Pp. 124. $1.75.

Children ‘

ADvENTUREs WITH CHILDREN IN NURSERY
SCHOOL AND KINDERGARTEN, Elsa Barnouw
and Arthur Swan. Thos. Y. Crowell, 432
4th Ave., New York 16. Pp. 276. $3.75.

CHILD, TIIE: DEvELOPMENT AND ADJUSTMENT,
Max L. Hutt and Robert Gwyn Gibby. Al-
lyn 8: Bacon, 150 Trentont St., Boston 11.
Pp. 401. $6.00.

CHILD’S WORLD, THE, Frank J. and Elizahcth
listvan. Putnam, 210 Madison Ave., New
York 16. Pp. 302. $4.95.

CIIILD WELFARE: PRINCIPLES AND METHODs,
Dorothy Zictz. John Wiley, 440 4th Ave.,
New York 16. Pp. 384. $5.50.

GROWING AND LEARNING IN THE KINDERGAR-
TEN, Mamie W. lleinz. John Knox Press, 8
N. 6th St, Richmond, Va. Pp. 152. $3.00.

GROWTH THROUGH PLAY, Albert M. Farina,
Sol 11. Furth, Joseph M. Smith. Prentice-
Hall, Englcwood Clifls, N. J. Pp. 246.
Spiralbound, $5.75.

OUR PROBLEM CHILDREN, Virginia Condo]. Ex-
position Press, 386 4th Ave., New York 16.
Pp. 35. $2.50.

TRAILs IN KINDERGARTEN, Phyllis Van Dyke
and Hilda LaQua Battcrberry. Exposition
Press, 386 4th Ave., New York 16. Pp. 62.
$2.50.

ENJOY YOUR CHILDREN (recreation and ac-
tivity ideas for 7-12-year-olds), Lucille E.
Hein. Abingdon Press, 201 81h Ave. S.,
Nashville 2, Tenn. Pp. 218. $3.50.

STIRRING UP FUN FOR YOUNGSTERS (parties

for 5-8-year-olds), Agnes K. Harris and
Louis C. Kuehner. Abingdon Press, 201 8th
Ave. S., Nashvillc 2, Tenn. Pp. 96. $1.95.

YOUR CHILD’S FRIEND, Sidonie M. Gruenberg
and Hilda Sidney Krech. Public Afiairs
Committee, 22 E. 38th St., New York 16.
Pp. 28. $.25.

WAYS OE STUDYING CHILDREN, Millie Ahny.
Bureau of Publications, Teachers College.

Columbia University, New York 27. Pp. 226.
$3.50.

(Continued on. page 402)

RECREATION

Fringe Areas
( Continued from Page 369)

cost as long as the municipal park and recreation depart-
ments attempt to assmne,it for them. This cost might be
solved, however, by an extension of the municipal park and
recreation district to encompass those areas, the establish.
ment of metropolitan park and recreation districts, or the
establishment of county park and recreation districts. Park
and recreation districts adjacent to each other might form
cooperative agreements or joint boards. Thus the people
living in each district could use the facilities of both districts.

Park and recreation departments should continue their
guidance to both government and private grOUps in the
fringe areas. That guidance should encourage the people
in those areas to establish either their own administrative
authority for parks and recreation or become a part of the
existing park and recreation district.

The state park and recreation associations should take the
necessary 'initiative to secure adequate legislation for the
provision of park and recreation facilities and programs in
fringe areas.

Strong advisory committees of lay citizens should he cre-
ated to support actively the local park and recreation pro-
grams. They can prove of value in interpreting the recre-
ation needs of the people; in resisting encroachinents on
park acreage and recreation facilities by other government
agencies, voluntary agencies, and private groups; and by
instigating a park and recreation survey, which calls for a
master plan of devel0pment and operation. A master plan
tends to encourage an orderly acquisition of areas, the con-
struction of facilities based on need, and the provision of the
proper administrative organization.

As members of the recreation profession, we should ask
ourselves, “Are we helping the residents of our fringe areas
to solve their recreation problems?” If we are not, a longer
delay merely aggravates the problem. #-

 

 

from Today’s Living
@1957, New York Herald Trlbune, Inc.

“Where! That was a close one!”

Novesmnu 1959

 

 

 

any

FOR SUPERIOR DESIGN, CONSIRUC "ON

AND PERFORMANCE . -
STRENGTH 

rs?

 ‘ ' ‘ MEHIBAN
#pp/zoaed

Ire-1?."
' ' PARK, PICNIC,

.1 'Ptavonouuo
AND SWIMMING
POOL EQUIPMENT

Since I9" the Roost equipment built,
backed by lifetime guarantee against
defective materials and construction
. . . specmed by leading recreational
authorities for almoIt haif a century.

Sand for New Catalog

Waite for Folder r- -
o. AMEIICAN'S ' ' '

FAR GRE ATER
UNEQUALLED SAFETY

          
  
 

4‘4"

AMERIan

PLAYGROUND DEVICE CO.

  

JIM PATTERSON

LIFETIME
Aluminum

DIVING

B O A R D
woeurs mm
omen noun

ANDERSON. INDIANA. U SA-

 

”The Choice of Those
Who Play The Game"

 

    

--.-.---.

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
.l.
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I

   

"' .

 

--.-.--.-—--.

 

Look to MocGrogor first for the finest in all sports equipment.

The MacGregor Co. ' Cincinnati 32, Ohio
EOOIBAll ° BASEBAIL ° BASKEIBAII. ° GOLF ° IENNIS

When writing to our advertisers please mention thnm‘non. 401

(Continued from page 400)
Church Recreation

 

BEST PLAI‘S I-‘OR TIIE CIIL'RCH (new ed.). Mil-
dred Hahn Enterline. Christian Educa-
tion Press. 1505 Race St.. Philadelphia 2.
Pp. 90. Paper. $1.00.

CHrRCII KINDERGARTEN, TIIE, Polly llargis
Dillard. Broadman Press. 127 9th Ave. N.,
Nashville 3. Tcnn. Pp. 146. $3.95.

Cat'ch L‘st: or AITDIo-VISUALS (rev. ed.),
Howard E. Tower. AlIingdon Press, 201
8th Ave. S.. Nashville 2. Tenn. Pp. 155.
Paper. $1.50; hard cover. $2.50.

(i0\CRl.(.-\Tl(t\ ANn TIIE OLDER ADULT, TIIE.
Nalional Lutheran Council, 50 Madison
Ave.. New York 10. Pp. 19. 3.10.

Coon Tlll\(i.- FOR CIII'RCII GRovcs. Beatrice
M. Casey. T. S. Dcnison. 321 5th Ave. 5.,
Minneapolis. Pp. 366. $3.95.

TRAINING FOR LEADERSHIP, Vincent J. Giesc.
Fides Publishers, 746 E. 79th St., Chicago
19. Pp. 159. $2.95.

L'NDERsTANDING YOUR

PI'I’ILS (S II n (l a )’

School), J. Ycrnon Jacobs. Zondervan Pub-

-—-..——

 

 

-—-—-—- -—————.— —— -—————-—-..

WFOIDKING

N0. I-J TAIL!

TIMI" unseen:
rusnctm TI)?

 

 
 
       
   
       
          
    
      
     

  

   

More

Four Hiya

' FOLDING TABLE LINE

kttchs-n nut-tantrum. stqu grunt-u. onco-

ltnn' I .R-Iury [Trunk ammo up In «VF:
DIRECT PM“ to Churches. Echo-Ills. (Talk. ctc \Iunmc
EIKOHNTS I TIIMS all-m till I)- I\I\(i Banquet lat-ks.

Inuit cscluuw m murmur In}. in; and
hwkmy. super slrrnyth. can u 1m” his nnvdrls and um.

BIG NEW 1960 CATALOG FREE

(‘ulor pnlurc- I all [me DIN“ clams. l-Ihls.’ .md chart Imus. plu-
It‘Llr'TlHif‘ .ortnhle nut-Intr- bullmr hunts Our 52nd \ur

THE MONROE (0., 181 Church St., Colfax. Iowa

 

We cater to recreation departments
in all ceramlc supplies.

WRITE FOR FREE CATALOGUE

Duncan and Reward colar charts
e e A:

Anderson Ceramics Company

P. O. Box 789, 7l4 Greenville Slreel
Anderson, South Corolino

 

 

Eliminate Gate-Crashers

"invisible" HAND STAMPING INKS
seen only under BLACKLIGHT Lamps

The modern TIE-ADMISSION system. Foolproof 0 low-
cosl 0 Simple 0 For fairs. dance-bolls, beaches, etc.

Complete Kits from $29.
Send lor Free Cololoo.

SlROBlllE (0. Dent. a, 75 w. 45th St., N.Y.C. 36

:—

 

 

New, Improved Golden Age Club Pn
Now in rcol gold plole with tree in
green iewelers‘ enamel. Solety colch
3 50¢ each, lncludmg Ied-erol lo: and
 posloge.

Minimum order 10 pins
Avoiloble only to oulhenlic clubs

JAMES SPENCER 8. C0.
22 N. blh Slreet Philod-elphio 6, Po

FFéetomeERs

seeking a book publisher

Two fact-tilled, illustrated brochures tell how
’ to publish your book, get 40% royalties, ne-
ttonal advertising. publicity and promotion.
Free editorial appraisal. Write Dept. R-lO

Exposition Press / 386 4th Ave., N.Y. 16

402

 

EXACT S"?

 

lishing, 1415 Lake Dr. S.E., Grand Rapids
6, Mich. Pp. 64. Paper. $1.00.

WOMAN TO WOMAN, Eugenia Price. Zonder-
van Publishing, 1415 Lake Dr. S.E., Grand
Rapids 6, Mich. Pp. 241. $2.95.

YOUTH PROGRAMS ON NATURE THEMES (wor-
ship scrvices), Ruth Schroeder. Abingdon

Press. 201 8th Ave. 5., Nashville 2, Tenn.
Pp. 192. $2.75.

Drama, Dance. Music

 

ACRES TO CROSS tone-act play), llelen Kro-
nIcr. pp. 47: MORE PLAYET‘I‘ES (short dra-
matizations for group meetings), pp. 48:
EDGE or TIIE VILLAGE (one-act play), Mar-
garet JIImp and Edith Agnew, pp. 32.
Friendship Press, 257 4th Ave., Ncw York.
$.50 each.

AIIT or MAKING DANCES, TIIE, Doris Hum-

phrey. Rineharl, 232 Madison Ave., New
York 16. Pp. 189. $6.50.

CHILDREN’S PLAYS EROM FAVORITE STORIES,
Sylvia E. Kamerman, editor. Plays, lne.,
8 Arlington St., Boston 16. Pp. 583. $5.95.

COAIEDIES Ann FARCEs r'OR TEEN-AGERS, John
Murray. Plays, lne., 8 Arlington St., Boston
16. Pp. 337. $4.95.

CONCERT TIME, collected and arranged by
Solveig P. Preus. Ginn, Statlcr Bldg., Bos-
ton 17. Pp. 64. Paper, $1.00.

DANCING EOR JOI', china J. Woody. Button.
300 4th Ave., New York 10. Pp. 223. $3.00.

EAR TRAINING AND SIGIIT SINGING, Maurice
Lieberman. W. W. Norton, 55 5th Ave., New
York 3. $4.95.

l-INCI CLOPEDIA OE CONCERT MUSIC, David
Ewen. Hill and Wang, 104 5th Ave., New
York 11. Pp. 566. $7.50.

l-INI'ERIMENTAI. Mt'sIC (composition with an
electronic conIputcr) , Lejaren A. lliller, Jr..
and Leonard M. lsaacson. McGraw-llill, 330
W. 42nd St., New York 36. Pp. 197. $6.00.

FOLK MUSIC (catalog of phonograph records).
Music Division, Recording Laboratory Ref-
erence Department. Library of Congress,
Washington 25, D.C. Pp. 103. $.25.

FOUR-STAR RADIO PLAIrs EOR TEEN-AGERS, A.
S. Burack, Editor. Plays, lne., 8 Arlington
SL, Boston 16. Pp. 24-6. $4.00.

New T0 lMPROH—J YOUR BALLET DANCING,
Beale and Peggy Flctchcr. A. S. Barnes, 11
E. 36th St., New York 16. Pp. 105. $3.95.

KINDERGARTEN (music and activities), Rose
Marie Grentzer and Marguerilc Y. llood.
SIInImy-Birchard. 1834 Ridge Ave., Evans-
ton, lll. Pp. 160. $4.80.

LET’S PLAI‘ AND SING, Dorothea Wiltront.
ClIildrenS Press, Jackson Blvd., 8' Racine
Avc.. Chicago 7. Pp. 30. $2.50.

LET’S TEACII MUSIC, Maurine TimnIcrman.
SIInImy-Birchard, 1834 Ridge Ave., Evans-
ton, lll. Pp. 216. $5.00.

MODERN TIIEATRE PRACTICE (4th ed.) , lluhcrt
C. lleflner. Samuel Selden, llunton D. Sell-

l mau. Appleton, 35 W. 32nd St., New York

1. Pp. 662. $7.00.

I IMPle ANII IMAGINATION, Aaron C0pland. New
American Li' rary, 501 Madison Ave., New
York. Pp. 127. $.50.

MUSIC FOR EI'ERTONE and TIME FOR MUSIC,
both by Walter Ehret, Lawrence Barr and
Elizabeth Blair. Prentice-Hall, Englewood
Cliffs, N. J. Each pp. 156. Each $3.60.

MUSIC WITH CHILDREN, Alfred Ellison. Mc-
Graw-Hill, 330 W. 42nd St., New York 36.
Pp. 294-. $5.75.

PLAI‘ING TIIE RECORRERS, F. F. Rigby. St. Mar-

l

 

 

tin’s Press, 175 5th Ave., New York 19. Pp.
84-. $3.00.

SEVEN IMPROVISATIONS ON HTMNS AND FOLK
TUNES, Margrethe Hokanson. Augsburg
Publishing, 425 S. 4th St., Minneapolis 15.
Pp. 20. Paper, $1.75.

SINGING DAYS or CHILDHOOD, Florence Ray.
T. S. Denison, 321 5th Ave. S., Minneapolis
15. Pp. 131. $4.95.

SOUND OE SURPRISE, TIIE (46 pieces on jazz),
Whitney Balliett. Dutton, 300 4th Ave., New
York 10. Pp. 237. $3.75.

SQUARE DANCING AT SIGHT, Nina Wilde. Sport-
Shelf, P.O. Box 634, New Rochellc, N. Y.
Pp. 38. Paper. $1.75.

WOOH CARI'ING WITII POWER TOOLS, Ralph E.
Byers. Chilton Co., 56th & Chestnut Sts.,
Philadelphia 39. Pp. 180. $7.50.

Sociology and Philosophy

   
   
   
   
    
   
   
  
    
   
 
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
   
   
   

AUTOMATION AND SOCIETY, Howard Boone
Jacohson and Joscph S. Roucck, Editors.
PlIilos0phical Library, 15 E. 40th St.. New
York 16. Pp. 553. $10.00.

DICTIONARY or TIIOL'GHT, A, Dagohcrt D.
Runes, Philosophical Library,,_15 E. 40th
St.. Ncw York 16. Pp. 152. $5.00.

ETHICS I‘OR EVERYDAY LIVING, Mary V. Nell.
Science Research Associates, 57 W. Grand
Ave., Chicago 10. Pp. 48. 8.50.

LEISURE LIVING. Duquesne University, Pitts-
burgh 19, Pa. Pp. 124. $2.95.

MAJOR SOCIAL PRORIEMS, Earl Raal) and
Gertrndc Jaegcr Selznick. Row, Peterson,
2500 Crawford Ave., Evanston, Ill. Pp. 582.
$6.50.

READINGS IN HUMAN RELATIONS, Keith Davis
and William G. Scott, Editors. McGraw-
Hill, 330 W. 42nd St., New York 36. Pp.
473. $6.50.

Readino and Writing

AROUT 100 BOOKS (for better intergroup un-
rlerstanding) 3rd ed., Ann C. Wolle. Divi-
sion of Youth Scrvice, American Jewish
Committee, 165 E. 56th St., New York 22.
Pp. 35. 3.25.

BASIC PATTERNS or PLOT, Foster-Harris. Uni-
vcrsity of Oklahoma Press, Norman. Pp.
119. $3.95.

BEST BOOKS FOR CIIILDREN (1959), R. R.
Bowker Co., 62 W. 45th St., New York 36.
Pp. 190. Paper, $2.00.

ELEMENTS or STTLE, TIIE, William Strnnk. Jr..
with E. B. White. Macmillan Co., 60 5th
Ave., Ncw York 11. Pp. 71. $2.50.

EMPLOYEE PUBLICATIONS, William C. llalley.
Chilton Co., 56th 8' Walnut Sts., Philadel-
phia 39. Pp. 133. $5.00.

FACTS AROUT CODE-APPROVED COMIC MAGA-
ZINES. Comics Magazine Association, 300
4th Avc., New York 10. Pp. 32. Frce.

GOOD BOOKS FOR CHILDREN, Mary K. Eakin,
Editor. University of Chicago Prcss, 5750
Ellis Ave., Chicago 37. Pp. 274. $5.95.

llAIKAI AND IIAIKU. Pcrkins Oriental Books,
5011 York Blvd., Los Angeles 42, Calil. Pp
191. $4.50.

PAMPIILETS: How to Write and Print Them.
Alexander L. Crosby. National Publicity
Council, 257 4th Ave., New York 10. Pp. 32
Paper, $1.25.

SOMETHING SHARED: CHILDREN AND BOOKS,
Phyllis Fenner, Editor. John Day, 62 W.
45th St., New York 36. Pp. 234. $4.50.

WRITING AND PUBLISHING YOUR TECHNICAL
BOOK. F. W. Dodge Corp.. 119 W. 40th St.,
New York 18. Pp. 50. Free.

RECREATI

NEW

 

ecreationol Use of Wild Lands,
(American Forestry Series], C. Frank
Brockmon. McGraw-Hill Book Com-
pany, 330 West 42nd Street, New
York 36. Pp. 346, photographs. $8.50.

  
    
    
   
  
  

From the Mayflower to missiles, this
vell-documented book brings us to the
hrcshold of a great new era. The im-
ortanec of wild lands takes on new
)roportions in relationship to growing
turnan need. As a Texan expresses it.
Cattle is moving East and cotton is
noving West: Southerners are moving
'orth and Northerners moving South,
)ut they are all going to town.” At last.
he boy has been taken from the coun-
ry, the country taken from the boy, but
is yen for the land has only been
harpened.

The still valid Great Ponds Act.
Jassed by the Massachusetts Bay Colony
:1 1611. is the first bench mark of
' Ineriean policy regarding acquisition
nd use of public lands. Nearly two
nd red years later (1822), the federal
overnment acquired Hot Springs
eservation, while Central Park f 1853)
'as the first municipal area of import-
nce. Mr. Brockman takes us from these
rly beginnings through the sequence
f major events culminating in the Out-
oor Recreation Resources Review Act
1958). ln addition, the final chapter
Was a worldwide picture with data on
ch continent.

The author. who is professor of for
try at the University of Washington.
ttle, holds no brief for central, uni-
ed control of the nation’s recreation
.ources. “Even if that were possible.
ur rccreation opportunities are too
ricd. too widely scattered, to make
ch 1: central authority practical.
iere should he some means of insuring

so agreement on broad recreational
hjeetives between top administrative
vels of all agencies concerned. Co-
peration between those agencies in ful-
ling details of all recreation objectives
'll be enhanced. Recreation is too im-
ortant to the national welfare, and too
- - tly, to permit an ' other procedure.”

Part of the big job needed in prepar-
g peeplc to use recreation resources
operly are: skills in living with the

   
 
 
   
  
   
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
   
  
  
  
   
 
   
  
   
 

: vest BER 1959

PUBLICATIONS

Covering the Leisure-time Field

out-of-doors, understanding esthetic
and conservation values; and the inher-
cnt ehallenge to agencies dealing with
either conservation: education and out-
door recreation: activities, or both.

Only better land-use planning can re-
lievc the impact of increasingly large
numbers of users threatening destruc-
tion of our major recreation resources.
Lands adapted to a wide variety of use
must be selected in relationship to pop-
ulation concentration.

Economic advantages are real for
recreation is also a tremendous industry
in terms of dollars and cents. Criteria
for determining these advantages are
heing developed, ust as they have been
to measure other business enterprises.
Travel, and all its concomitant services,
—lodging. food, equipment, and such——
are all tangible business aSpects of rec-
reation. Our wild lands and recreation
resources are providing the core of this
industry.

In addition to the development, main-
tenance, and Operation of the land itself,
there is the very definite need for serv-
ices designcd to help the park patron use
and enjoy the resou recs unique to each
area. The growing demand for formal
training and sound experience is evolv-
ing a new field of endeavor, that of rec-
reation land managcmcnt.

This hook. first of its kind, is a vital
contribution to recreation. (RECREA-
TIO.\' Magazine used part of Chapter
One as its Octoher editorial, “Concepts
of Recreation.” page 309) . While it was
planned for the student. it should be
in the library of all professionals and
teachers concerned with this field. Or-
chids to Professor Brockman! --—Wr'f-
fr'am M. Hay. NRA Southern District
Representative. (Sec RECREATION, May,
1959 [or Mr. Hay’s artt'cfc, “Land for
Living”)

Shadow Magic, Bill Severn. David Mc-
Kay Company, Inc., H9 West 40
Street, New York 18. Pp. l79. $4.00.

This unusual book fills a gap in rec-
reation literature; up to now, material
on shadow plays has been fragmentary
and difficult to find.

It will intercst collectors of historical

background material as well as club or
eainp leaders who find shadow puppets,
hand-shadow shows, silhouettes. and so
forth interesting program material. The
former group will enjoy the long and
honorable history of shadow plays.
tricks. shows, pllplwts. and silhouettes.
The latter will find clear instructions.
well illustrated by Yukio Tashiro.

Creative Power: The Education of
Youth in the Creative Arts [Second Re-
vised Editionl, Hughes Mearns. Dover
Publications, l80 Varick Street, New
York 14. Pp. 272. Paper. $1.50.

lieissued under the sponsorship of
the Children's Theatre Conference of
the American Theatre Association, this
book (first published in 1929) is as im-
portant today-—-—and as fresh—as it was
when progressive education was a rev-
olutionary idea.

Today. as schools are heing pres-
surcd to concentrate solely on “facts
and figures,” this again reminds us that
every child has creative abilities that
can be brought to light through wise
teaching and wise leadership.

Mr. Mearns is so well known in the
field of education he does not need to
be introduced here. He started as a
teacher at the progressive Lincoln
School of Teachers College. Columhia
University. This book is considered by
the National Education Association one
of the twenty most significant in recent
years.

It is a delight to read. The following
paragraphs show the insight running
through every page:

“Someone should stand hy in the
early years to watch for and foster these
natural endowments. It is not enough
to discern a native gift; it must be en-
ticed out again and again. It needs ex-
ercise in an atmosphere of approval.
Above all, it must be protected against
the annihilating effect of social condem-
nation. The fair-minded boy may be
called ‘softie’ by his mates; the low-
voiecd girl may be accused of posing
for adult favors. The budding scholar
may he d iseonraged by the epithet
‘bookworm'. . . . All too often adults
cneourage only a limited range of traits.
those commonly believed to be essential
for suecess. . . .

“The best time for watehing children
is when they are off guard: on picnics
. . . in places of public interest. at young
people‘s parties. in the informal hours
of the home life. Here the often over-
looked gifts are exposed: wholehearted
sharing. grit to contest against odds,
natural leadership. care for the younger
and the weak. chccrfnlness. an interest
in plannin". ,

“The important thing is to expose
children to a multiplicity of activities

403

and interests, so that their inherent gifts
will have as many chances as possible
to show themselves.”

The introduction is written by Wini-
fred Ward, and this book is required
reading for the classes in creative dra-
matics at Northwestern University. The
eover and the binding of the new edi-
tion, while soft, will not tear or crack,
and the pages will not drop out, a prob-
lem with most paperbacks. Paper, type,
and margins are all good; but the ex-
cellent contents are what really counts.

Music for Everyone and Time For Music,
Ehret, Barr, and Blair. Prentice-Hall,
Englewaad Cliffs, New Jersey. Pp. 156
each, illustrated. $3.60 each.

These two song books, complete with
melody and accompaniment, are pre-
pared particularly for teen-age use, with
special consideration given to boy’s
changing voices. Each is a carefully se-
lected blending of old and new songs,
including some folk songs, patriotic
songs, campus, religious, and popular
songs from some of the better known
stage musicals such as The Music Man
and Brigadoon. The two books are at-
tractively printed and illustrated.

Art for Young People (ii to 19 Years
at Age), Eugenie Alexander and Ber-
nard Carter. Spartshelf, P.O. Box 634,
New Rochelle, New York. Pp. 83, il-
lustrated. $5.75.

This small book contains a great deal
of informative material for both the ex-
perienced and the beginning art teacher.
Though aimed primarily at young peo-
ple, there are sections that could be
easily adapted for use with young chil-
dren. Full-page photographs of juve-
nile art work illustrate the authors’
points effectively. It also offers a five-
year syllabus showing the kinds of
work children can accomplish at differ-
ent age levels.

The book would be a great help to
a recreation leader interested in doing
art work with young people, as it in-
cludes many ideas for craft work and
various “how-to-do” crafts. Of special
interest to the recreation worker with
the ill and handicapped are the sections
covering projects for handicapped chil-
dren. The book is well illustrated. ——
Mary B. Cummings, NRA Consulting
Service on Recreation for the I” and
Handicapped.

Meaning ln Crafts. Edward L. Mat-
til. Prentice-Hall, Englewaod Cliffs,
New Jersey. Pp. 135, illustrated.
$5.25 ($3.95 from NRA Book Center).

Here is a significant book on crafts
for elementary-school-age youngsters.
In recent years there has been a flood
of how-to-do-it books for all ages, all
too often a rehash of unimaginative,

404

stale projects with little or no value.
Most show, by diagrams or patterns,
exactly how to make the project. Al-
most none are concerned with the per-
son rather than the project, or supply
the leader with information on using
crafts as a medium to help the child de-
velop his own personality.

Edward Matti] has done a remark-
able job. The book provides basic pro-
cedures used in a wide variety of craft
media: modeling and sculpture, print-
making of many types, puppetry, draw-
ing and painting, papier miiché, needle-
crafts, holiday and seasonal activities;
and other miscellaneous crafts, such as
collage. mobiles, kites, toys, and the
like. The whole focus, however, is on
the use of arts and crafts in providing
basic procedures that free the child to
develoP his own techniques, to express
himself, and to have something to ex-
press.

Mr. Mattil’s philosophy is a far cry
from that of the instructor who hands
out patterns or directions that result in
every child’s producing the same thing,
or who hands out materials and then re-
tires to the background, letting the child
“create” in a vacuum. As Mr. Matti]
expresses it, “The teacher’s role is one
of establishing a wholesome climate for
creative work, providing good motiva-
tion, introducing sufficient orderly pro-
cedure to insure good basic foundations
on which to work and then permitting
the child to use his own ideas for the
development of his project.”

This book should be required read-
ing for all leaders or teachers who con-
duct or plan to conduct craft programs
for children. It can be the basis for
excellent staff discussion and in-service
training. The author and publisher are

to be congratulated on such an excellent
contribution to child development.

Roekettes

( Continued from page 385)
only as fast as the youngsters can take

it it].

\Ve have also found that when the
iegular classroom teacher is present
during the dancing lesson, the children
behave better. Some teachers, naturally,
prefer to use this as a rest hour, and,
if she does, the Rockette has to be both
dance teacher and disciplinarian. Al-

 

though their behavior is generally
good, they are still children and subject
This is one
of the reasons the dance project stresses
the social graces. For example, the
physical demonstrations of affection
they showered on us at the beginning
have been replaced by curtseys and

to the usual distractions.

bows. we achieved this, without hurt-
ing any feelings, by explaining that the
were now too big for hugging. 0
course, we do embrace them at times,
as a reward for a step accomplished, but
their usual award for a good lesson is
a lollipop. One of the most difficul
things to get them to remember is thel
correct sitting position, with ankles
crossed and hands folded; they need
constant reminding.

 
 
 
  
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
   
    
  
 
   
  
  
  
  

B Y THE END of the first teaching yea

in Pelham we saw improvement i
a great many of the children. Yet, a
we watched the boys and girls waltzin
together, with the boys cutting in t
change partners, we wondered if we ha
helped them at all. When we expressc
this doubt to director Mrs. Amelia H
Simpson, her reply was most vehemen
ly affirmative.

“Why, dancing has given them a feel
ing of achievement. It has made then
expressive, both facially and bodily. it
short, it has brought them out of them
selves. Their posture, until you came
was very poor. Now they remember t
sit straight all the time. They are mor
willing to meet strangers, and they hav
learned to concentrate, which ha
helped them with their school work
Certainly dancing has given them thi
ability because no one else can danc
for the child. He must learn to motivat
his own arms and legs. And helpin
him to help himself is the only way h
will ever learn anything.”

That same day brought us anothe
reward of the spirit. One of the chil
dren was going to Europe with her fam
ily during the summer, and they ha
originally planned to fly. Howeve
when Laura’s father saw her waltzin
in the Christmas show, he decided t
go by ship so he could dance with he
to the music of the ship’s orchestra.

Our efforts have not been in vain, i
we can help these children, as we ha
Laura, onto the long road to being a
cepted by society. Like most activiti
of this kind, this has been a two-wa
street: we have equipped the childre
with a skill to enable them to meet s
ciety a little closer to its own terms, an
we have had the gratification of teac
ing an intricate subject (for them) an
seeing it bear fruit. #

RECREATIO

. ARE YOU
GETTING THE MOST
OUT OF YOUR
NRA AFFILIATION?

DISCOUNTS ON ALL NRA PUBLICATIONS, and most of the
571 books of 105 publishers listed in A Guide to Books
on Recreation: Are you keeping your library up-to-datc
and taking advantage of this discount by ordering through

the NRA? Use the new l959-60 Guide to check.

Insurance:

PERSONAL LIABILITY “BUSINESS PURSUITS" INSURANCE
protects either volunteer or professional recreation workers
from lawsuits arising in connection with their work.

RECREATION ACTIVITIES ACCIDENT INSURANCE covers
all participants nineteen years of age and under against
accidents occuring during supervised recreation activities.
(The few activities on which premiums would be too high
are the contact sports of tackle football, ice hockey, la-
crosse, and boxing. They are not covered.) Cost is only
75¢ per person per year for full coverage, which pays
from the first penny to the limit of $750. For $5 deductible,
the cost is only 60¢ per person, annually. All participants
in an agency must be insured. The minimum premium

is $100.

BASEBALL-SOFTBALL GROUP ACCIDENT PLANS cover
softball and baseball teams against accidents incurred
during play or while traveling to and from games. Covers
all members of the team plus manager and coaches. Rates
range from $17.50 to $80 per team, depending on the
maximum age of the players.

THE NEW TEAM SPORTS ACCIDENT INSURANCE PLAN,
which covers all except the contact sports on a participant
rather than a 100% registration basis, was announced at
the 1959 National Recreation Congress in Chicago. Lit-
erature on this new plan has gone out to all NRA affiliated
agencies. Write for a brochure if you did not receive it.

General Services

0 And here’s a list of NRA ’5 general services: on-thc-
spot field service; aid and consultation (by mail and in
person) on budgets, legislation, long-term planning; rec-
reation personnel recruitment, placement and referral;
up-to-date information on recreation; RECREATION Mag-
azine; program materials and ideas; National Recrea-
tion Congress and district conferences; training courses;
research; community surveys; area planning; nationwide
public interpretation of the value of recreation and recrea-
tion agencies; and the International Recreation Service.

. National Recreation Association
3 West 81h Street New York II. New York

 

  

 

for top Ice Skating

"Figure on"

N RINKLINERS

0 Hold water in when weather is warm—
End oII-night flooding foreverl

0 Freeze smooth when temperature dropsl

o A cold-proof, one-piece 4 mil polyethylene
lining.
0 Sizes 40 x 40 to 100 x 200

|R|A|v| elm INDUSTRIES

Box 227, Sioux Falls, South Dakota

 

 

CRAFTS FOR EVERYONE!

Whatever your requirements, you’ll find the right craft
at the right price. Many popular crafts are available in
individual kits and bulk-packed for institutions at lower

prices.

Free craft instruction movies are available to groups.

Free demonstrations of crafts are given upon request;
free craft instruction is available at all our stores and

annual Craft Clinics for individuals, craft teachers, camp

counselors, etc.

Write for free copy of Craft Chatter, 12-pa e magazine
of information and instruction. Write for ree Eel-page
illustrated catalog of over 30 crafts, including mosaics.

ADVERTISING DEPT.

AMERICAN HANDICRAF‘I'S CO.
9. 0. sex 1543-: roar worm t. TEXAS

.....—__..—..—..__—_

 

 

 

CHANGE OF ADDRESS

If you are planning to move. notify us at least thirty
days before the date of the issue with which it is to take
effect, if possible. in order to receive your magazines
without interruption. Send both your Chi and new atl-
(lresses by letter, card or post oflicc form 225 to:

SUBSCRIPTION DEPARTMENT
RECREATION MAGAZINE
8 WEST ElGllTll STREET
NEW YORK 11, N. Y.

The post oflice will not forward copies unless you pro-
Vlth extra postage. Duplicate copies cannot be sent.

When writing to our advertisers please mention Rsenmnon.

Get More Flexibility

IN YOUR GYM

Even the non-athlete will enjoy roller skating in
your gym. It’s the one sport in which everyone
participates and has a barrel of fun. It is a great
Youth Fitness program because it teaches rhythm,
co-ordination and grace without the skater being
conscious of it. That, plus the fun is why more
schools, churches and recreation centers are mak-
ing roller skating an integral part of their pro-
grams. Write today for facts and details.

 

 

4490-K West Lake Street, Chicago 24, Illinois

 

NEW DURYTE PLASTIC WHEELS
ARE KIND a; 
a" 
TO GYM FLOORS “at,

New Duryte plastic wheels have a
long life and are guaranteed not to
mar or scratch gym floors. "Chi-
cago” has a skate designed for every
type of floor surface or finish. Write
today for free details on roller skat-
ing programs and skating equipment.

 

