 

Dress Up Your Becrea tron Program
with

T-SHIRTS - SWEAT SHIRTS - JACKETS

“CHAMPION

KNITWEAR COMPANY, INC.

Low Cost, Top Value, Prompt Delivery

We carry a full size and color range for all team sports and activities, plus a full line
of leader sportswear.

LetL Us Make You a Free Sample T-Shirf with
Your Own Recreation Program Design or Insignia

CHAMPION KNITWEAR CO., INC.
115 COLLEGE AVENUE ROCHESTER 7. NEW YORK

0 We are Manufacturers And Sell Direct 0 Write for Free Sportswear Catalogue

 

 

._'_ . _—.—._

m _ It’s Playground
S|GNPUST Summer Notebook

Time . . .

If you're a NOTEBOOK fan, don't bother to read this. Just get

your order in quiek-like-a-llash—aud don't forget to order that extra
eopy you wished you’d had last year!

For new subscribers (bless ’em!) the PLAYGROUND SUMMER
NOTEBOOK is the MOST. It’s a whole summer compressed into
a set of twelve bulletins. Easy to read, hard to forget. Best of all,
it’s FUN!

WHAT does it cover? Just what you need —

 

Arts and (rails - Music and Dancing - Drama - Games - Special Events - Family Nights - Fitness
Rainy and Hot Days - Nature - Special Groups PLUS Planning and leadership - Promotion and Publicity

WHEN? Earlier this year! April 15, hopefully; May 1, definitely.

0 R D E R WHO uses it? Leaders in summer recreations programs on playgrounds,
in camps, in institutions, in day camps—wherever people play!
I HOW MUCH? Same as usual (honestl). $2.50 per set (32 for NBA
N  u from . members).

National Recreation Association 0 8 West Eighth Street 0 New York 11, New York

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

A new concept for
HEALTH

PHYSICAL EDUCATION
RECREATIOH
plus SAFETY!

"The child's interests tend toward motor acts."

"It the individual has been active throughaut childhood and
youth maximum fitness is achieved earlier."

Front JONPER and
JOumaI of the A. M. A

YOUR RESPONSIBILITIES . . . whether as instructor, super-
visor, coach, director, principal, superintendent . . . to
provide healthful recreation and effective physical educa-
tion . . . are often made complex and difficult by the fact
that children’s interests are so strongly “toward motor acts”.

SAFETY AT PLAY is no simple matter when gyms and play-
grounds are crowded with active youngsters. The Cosom
SAFE-T-PLAY idea grew out of your need to prevent
physical injury as you promote physical fitness.

THE LIGHTNESS AND RESILIENCE of Polyethylene make '
Cosom bats, balls and other equipment SAFE for even
first grades and yet challenging to the skill and strength of

high school students and adults. Because of these unique
qualities, SAFE-T-PLAY Scoops, Bats, Balls and Bowlite"

(regulation bowling that needs no costly alleys) are now in  7 I
daily use, indoors and outdoors, by schools, colleges, play- Boner 96..“ a h“ in 90: 6:82:30” Diem"! d be". with

grounds, recreation departments, churches, hospitals and ,he 30- Sofe_T.B°h ,his game can be “Med by
Institutions all across America. adults as well as youngsters.

SAFE-T-PLAY PRODUCTS are made of
unbreakable rugged, resilient yet
feather-lightPolyethyleneplastic3safe
far indaar play, weather-praof and
long-lived far outdoors.

 

 

f/GO“QG“\
 M \' .Sle-I-ruga) INDUSTRIES. INC.
"onuo‘
6020 WAYZATA BLVD. / MINNEAPOLIS I6, MINN. Teach regulation bowling thh Bowllte.

* MARCH 1959 When writing to our advertisers please month-n RECREATION. 73

 

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION

A Service Organization Supported by Voluntary Contributions

JOSEPH PRENDERGAST, Executive Director

 

 

NATIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON THE PUBLISHING OF RECREATION MATERIALS

The National Advisory Committee on the Publishing of Recreation Materials, com-
posed of representatives of a variety of recreation pnblieations—national, state, and local
——-—has been established for the purpose of: a) building a closer working relationship be-
tween the National Recreation Association and leaders in the recreation field on matters per-
taining to publishing activities; b) strengthening the network of recreation publications
across the country generally, thus contributing to the stature of the recreation profession.
This purpose will be accomplished through advisory functions which also are twofold:
one, advisory to the Association; two, advisory to the field. The committee will also act as
a clearing house for an exchange of recreation and publishing information.

DONALD V. J OT'eE—Vice»Chairman

Superintendent of Recreation
TenaHy, New Jersey

R. FOSTER BLAISDELI.

Superintendent of Recreation
Topeka, Kansas

MRs. CARITA BUNNEI.

Assistant Recreation Director
Pacatello, Idaha

STEWART G. CASE
Recreation Specialist

Colorado A. & M. College
Fort Collins, Colorado

JAMES R. CIIAMPLIN
Recreation Consultant

State Board of Health
Indianapolis, Indiana

WILLIAM J. CROZIER

General Supervisor of Recreation
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

JOSEPn DAVIDSON

Assistant Supervisor of
Recreation, Greenburgh
Recreation Commission

White Plains, New York
II. S. DEGROAT

I nstructor, Public Schools,
Newtawn, Cannectieut.

MARJORIE M. DICKINSON

Executive Secretary
Illinois Association of
Park Districts

Springfield, Illinois

LAWRENCE HEED

State Recreation Consultant
University of Kansas
Lawrence, Kansas

2. CAROL PULCIEER—Chairman

General Supervisor of Recreation
Oakland, California

DOROTHY DONALDSON—Secretary
National Recreation Association

New York, New York

OIIA T. IIESTER

Director of Parks and Recreation
Greensboro, North Carolina

HADLEY K. IRWIS'

Recreation Supervisor
Missouri State Park Board
Jeflerson City, Missouri

TEMPLE R. JARRELL
Director of Parks and Recreation

F art Lauderdale, Florida

CLIFFORD A. KING, JR.

Superintendent of Recreation
Douglas, Georgia

CHRISTOPHER KNOWLTON

Director, Community Recreation
Commission
Woodstock, Vermont

RUDOLPII KRESTAN

Secretary, New Jersey Parks
and Recreation Association
Elizabeth, New Jersey

SIDNEY G. LUTZIN

Regional Director
New York State Youth Commission

Albany, New York

FRED R. MARDER

Program Supervisor
Department of Recreation

and Parks
Livingston, New Jersey

W. C. S-IcHORRls

Director of Recreation
Kin gspart, Tennessee

RONALD W. PERRY
Director of Recreation

Sanford, Florida

MRs. RUTn E. PIKE

Recreation Specialist
State Parks and Recreation
Commission

Olympia, Washington

CONSTANCE ROLLISON

Program Director
Recreation Department
Danvillc, Virginia

GRAHAM M. SKEA

Superintendent of Recreation
East Orange, New Jersey

ARTIIUR L. SCHULTZ

Director of Public

Information Service
Chicago Park District
Chicago, Illinois

KENNETH J. SMITHEE

Directar, Maricapa County Parks
and Recreation Department
Phoenix, Arizona

JAMES S. STEVENS, JR.
Associate Director

North Carolina Recreation

Commission
Raleigh, North Carolina

LOUIS F. TWARDZIK

Recreation Consultant

Division of State Parks
Tennessee Department of
C onservatian

Nashville, Tennessee

RECREATION

f'
HARCH 1959

   

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

I Editor in Chic}, Joseru Pannoencasr C O N T E N T S

Editor. Doaottt‘t Domwsoa

I Business Manager, RALPH C. MORRIS

I ASSOCIATE EDITORS GENERAL FEATURES

 
   
  
  

* Recreation Administration, GEORGE BUTLER The Living \Vilderness (Editorial) . . . . Howard Zohniner 76
Program Activities, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN Camping hy the Day . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
. (Iet'l'hatlatndl.................................. 85

0'“ Ln' Pncc so Gems NO' 3 The Place of the Tree \Vnrden in Recreation
. Stephen Hohoney 86
we Cover TreesoftheGranthan.......................... 87
Plus Ideas for Cuntp............ . . . .  91

- ALI. TALES. Legends, stories, and nature lore I I , l. R , , A , , n
e on a magic under the Open sky. They are an "'prm‘smns " ""‘m‘m’ "' “"‘r'm—l H"

 
 
   
   
    

ortant part of camping, hiking trips, picnics, Rudolf M. J. Oppermon 92
'5 at the lHI'BE'Il, on the lake, or in the mountains. Camping Reference Lists . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100
r’imgfr {limit}: hewtlimn;DT1:lr(:nf::tncSy "Olly. Camping Therapy for Delinquents . . . . Walter R. Danton 106
t .

01, mun, “ma on p \VeAreCoingto Chicago...... . . . .  110
an Month

' . . , ADMINISTRATION
rtl Is always Ilte month for our Annual llay-

0111‘" ISSUC- lm'lu‘k‘d this War Will be several Building Cnntp Facilities for the Handicapped

lifles 0“ new Playground t“Illipm‘ml- Among W. B. Schoenbohm nnd Latcrenee "or-ii: 94

nt will be one on “Saddle City,” new Oakland,

lil'nrnia, playground equipment; “Design for O o O
y.” describing five new pieces on Philadelphia's Design Recreation Areas . . . ‘Vhy? . . . . C. Leahe Lynch 108

lE'Sroml‘ls- Leaders“? training. SP0!”ls load?" llow to Build a Golf Course for $l500

i-p. playground activities, our children’s iiLneSS, 8 Larry "cob and Jam“ potent," 111
ildren's zoo are other subjects covered. Shoot-

Camping.r Seryiees for Families . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 97

,3 I .L J S . 3 . I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I

for the Moon, desenhes a space-age, day-camp Tommi con" ‘1’“ 3' 112
ram and is one of several good program aroti-

‘ ., and “Teen-Counselor Training" gives details PROGRAM

«amp counselor training on the playgrounds.
Age-Level Characteristics of Campers . . . . Lois Coodrielt 88

oCretlits On-l'ost Recreation  . . . .  101
-‘ e 82, Wm. Z. Harmon, Sarasota. Florida; 85, A Camp for Exceptional ghildren
ate Department of Highways, Columbus, Ohio; Rtto Saunders attd Herbert Sehoct 102
v Waller sander"; 89‘ Wm- BUSChlwm; 909 Ralph Crafts with Natural Materials . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 101

rse; 99, (I0p left) Brooks Studio, Wilmington,

laware: (bottom right) Times-News. Kingsport,

. uessee: lll, Gazette, Emporia, Kansas; 112,
aine-Skelton, San Francisco.

A Nature Mural . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Dorothy R. Flood 105
How to Make Things for Easter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 109

REGULAR FEATURES

RECREATION is published monthly except July and Things You Should Know . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .78

August by the National Recreation Association. a service ..

     ‘l 8  a a g a a n n o o a n o o a o a a a n a o a u u o n o o n o n o n o o a a a a n n 
cum: treet. ewor . ewor.non .

geidl'n         n a o a o o o o o a a a a n a o o o o o o a o o o o o o n o 
u o. u scrtpnons . a year. an no an or- s __ - o ‘-

c‘ixn sugxri  {$034506 lée-enggéi as gondi’clgig : ersonnel Qltltllllt‘s of a (mod Camp Counselor . . . . . . . 

nutter pn . .ntteost eta cw or. it i an iewin ............................

New York uoder Act of Marcb 3. [879. Aecepmnee q o" "g, I ‘

grannillirigsuxpecifalorcattebgfspofnf; protlrlidedcénrmtn h Market hews . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jean Waehtel 114

ion . ct o o . . tut an: a! . .

1. 1.92% . Micmmm, nf cunt!“ 3m, "351,131: uni. llospttal Capsules . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Beatrice H. "1" 116

iiggrsagl'cmmm" 3‘3 N' 9”“ sum‘ Ann Arbor‘ Magazine Articles, Reeordings, lioolu nnd l'antphl-els

Sp“l R'W'Im’dirllz     W’-  o o n I n o o o o o o o o n n n n o n u a a n n o o a n n n a o o o o o o 

bash Avenue. Chicago I. lllinois.
Copyright. 1959. by the
National Recreation Association. incorporated

New Publications ...H............................ 119

 

Printed in the U.S.A.

   
 

DU CAT l ONA L
" ESESEIATION The articles herein printed on the unrel-
' Trade mark registered in U. 5. Patent Office. OF "M 0' "to when one no! 0 notoqu ct
A H En [ CA policy of the National Recreation Association.

 

‘cn 1959 75

76

   

“‘3 - ‘ r?!-

P—HOTO COURTESY HOL DAY MAGAZINE

“This; is the forest primeval. Tlie nntrtnuring pines

and the ltetttltn‘lx‘b,
Bearded n itli moss, and in garments green, indistinct

in the twilight,
Stand like Druids of old. . . .”
EV'ANGELINE, by HENRY WADSWORTH LONGFELLOW.

RECREATIOI

  
 

i r old Zahniser

 
  
 
  
  
 
   
   
 
  
  
   
 
  
   
 
 
  
   
   
 
  
  
 
   
    
   
  

N ADDITION to our needs for urban and suburban spaces,
in addition to the need for a countryside of rural loveli-
ness, a landscape of beauty for our living, and in addition
. the needs for parkways and well-developed areas for all
inds of outdoor recreation—in addition to all thewthere
. in our planning a need also to secure the preservation of
me areas that are so managed as to be left unmanaged.
ese are the areas that are undeveloped by man’s mechan-
al tools and in every way unmodified by his civilization.
icy are the areas of wilderness that still live on in our na-
onal parks, national forests, state parks and forests, and
': various other categories of land.  .

These are areas . . . in jeopardy, not only from exploita-
on for commodity purposes, but also from appropriation
r engineering uses. Their peculiar values are also in dan-
r from development for recreation, cven from efforts to
oteet and manage them as wilderness.

It is important to recognize these peculiar values. It is
1 portant to distinguish our need for the areas as wilder-
. from the needs which they serve, along with our other
tdoor areas of parks, parkways, forests, lakes, and streams.
Of course, there is the practical need that resides in the
J t that many people deeply want the wilderness, and there
. a need for realizing our ideal of preserving for evcryone
' ' privilege of choosing to enjoy the wilderness if he so
-’ 'i-shes. We need also to preservc the wilderness because it
something superlativc. . . .

Bnt deep down, at the base of all our needs for it, is a
ofound, a fundamental need—a need that is not only ree-
tional and spiritual but also educational and scientific
-. well, and withal essential to a true understanding of our-
L ves, our culture . . . and our place in all natnrc.

This need is for areas of the earth within which we stand

* printed with permission from The Living Wildcrness, pub-
hed by the Wilderness Society, Washington, D. C. MR.
AIINISER has been executive secretary of The Wilderness
acier and editor of The Living Wilderness since 1945.

ch 1959

. HE LIVING WILDERNESS

without our mechanisms that make us immediate mastcrs
over our environment—areas of wild nature in which we
sense ourselves to be dcpendent members of an interdepend-
ent community of living creatures that together derivc their
existence from the sun.

By definition, this wilderness is a need. The vcry idea
of wilderness as an area withont man’s influence is man's
own concept. Its values are human values. lts preservation
is a purpose that arises out of man’s own sense of his fun-
damental needs, and we would surely do well morc care-
fully to consider these needs.

Yet there may be danger in too conscious, too deliberate,
too intent an affort to see all in terms of our own welfare.
Jesus suggested that self-seeking is not the way to self-real-
ization; not deliberately, but through indirection, human
beings realize their best welfare—by losing sight of them-
selves.

It is a great satisfaction to be able to demonstrate to an-
other that an unspoiled wilderness is important because it
serves man’s necd for “escape,” but going to the wilderness
to escape from something is no certain way of actually bcing
in the wilderness at all. The only way to escape from one’s
self in the wilderness is to lose one‘s self there. More real-
istically, the true wilderness experience is one not of escap-
ing, but of finding one's self. . . .

The snm of this moralizing may add up to forsaking hu-
man arrogance and courting humility in a respect for the
community and with regard for the environment. Ccrtainly,
the central human importance of such experience consti-
tutes profound evidenec of a deep need. . . . An understand-
ing of this fundamental need, as well as of the so-ealled
more practical needs, to meet the recreational demands
of pcoplc for wilderness experienec—-this nnderstanding
should inspire us ancw to work for the perfection of our
program for wilderness preservation, a program to serve
not only our own human needs but also those of generations
to follow. 7“?

77

 

) REDESICNED, AND AVAILABLE FREE,
_ the NRA brochure Recreation Leader-
ship with the III and the Handicapped
is up-to-date and geared to high school
and undergraduate college students. It
explains the different types of service
open to anyone choosing a career in
this field. (There is a small charge for
quantity lots.)

) A DIGEST 0F BOATING LAws for the
forty-nine states and the District of
Columbia has been published by the
Outboard Boating Club of America, ae-
cording to executive dircctor Guy \V.
Hughes. Copies are available, upon re-
quest, by writing: OBC, 307 N. Michi-
gan Avenue, Chicago 1.

t A WIDESPREAD SEARCH for a talented
tunesmith, capable of producing a suit-

able Oregon Centennial song has failed '

to turn up a composer who ean fill the
bill. This was announced by R. W.
Hocks, publicity chairman for the Port-
land Rainmakers, who have been lead-
ing the hunt. Entries can be mailed to
Song Committce, Oregon Centennial

Commission, 511 Jackson Tower, Port-
land.

) NATIONAL YOUTII FITNESS WEEK——
May 3-9, 1959 has been proclaimed by
President Eisenhower. A packet of ma-
terial is available from President’s

Council on Youth Fitness, Washington
25, D.C.

Don’t let this confuse you! The first
week in National Recreation Month
(June) is still Youth Fitness Week, too.
Leaders in the recreation field should
therefore cooperate with the former and
utilize it as preparation for our own.
Physical skills developed in school can
be valuable in a community-wide recre-
ation observance in June. Says Dr.
Shane MacCarthy, executive director
of the President’s Council on Youth
Fitness, in speaking of the Youth
Fitness Program, “I have become in-
creasingly aware of the need for greater
interest participation in this vital pro-
gram. . . . Promote community partici-
pation, and support your local schools’
physical education program.”

78

) TIIE EICHTEENTII ANNUAL CONFER-
ENCE of the National Industrial Recrea-
tion Association will be held May 24-27,
at the Bellevue-Stratford Hotel, Phila-
delphia.

) TIIE OTIIER SIDE OF THE COIN: A pro-
test meeting against establishment of a
children’s summer day camp in a resi-
dential neighborhood was held in Stam-
ford. Connecticut, in February. A
“Committee to Keep North Stamford
Residential” told property owners, “We
want to keep our area rustic and rural,
peaceful and quiet.” A prOposed amend-
ment to zoning laws is designed to re-
strict the establishmcnt and operation
of day camps.

) FORTv-NINE YEARS OF SERVICE will be
marked by March 17th, Camp Fire Girls
Founders Day. Their national program
“She Cares . . . DO You?” based on the
conservation of our national resourees,
will rcach its climax during Camp Fire
Girls Golden Jubilee, 1960-61. Thou-
sands of trees will have been planted,
recreation areas planned, shelters for
wildlife created, streams and waterways

- improved.

) YOUR SPRING RECREATION CALENDAR:

March 29—Easter
April—National Hobby Month
—Cherry Blossom Festivals
May—May Day
—Senior Citizens Month
—American Bicycle Month
NRA District Recreation Conference
extends through May.

} WIIITIIER DAY CAMPS? Forty new day
eamps and play groups were on the
Nexv York City scene last year, accord-
ing to the day camp unit of the city
health department. This led to an in-
crease of 5,950 children served over the
previous year—totaling 78,000 who
were served in the 420 known day
camps. There were more and different
kinds of programs for teenagers and
handicapped.

} USA TOUR of the Ceramic Interna-
tional exhibit, which has been open to
the public from January 23 through

March 8 at the Metropolitan Museum of
Art, in New York City, is scheduled for
Boston; Manchester, New Hampshire;
Cleveland; Detroit; and Grand Rapids,
Michigan. The Ceramic International is
cosponsored by the Syracuse Museum
of Fine Arts, the Syracuse China Corp-
oration, and the Ferro Corporation of
Cleveland. That part of the exhibit se-
lected for the tour contains 203 Euro-
pean works and 138 pieces from the
United States, Canada, and Hawaii.

) EACII MARCH IS KNOWN As American
Red Cross Month. All of us can help the
Red Cross with our time—and dollars.
Give to the organization that is “On the
Job When You Need It Most.” Among
the many things it offers are disaster
relief, training in first aid, water safety,
home nursing, blood banks. Give now!

} WARNING! Amateur rocket blasts.
threat to the young, are still heard

throughout the land. There is an ever-
growing concern over the hazards o

rocketry. The Civil Aeronautic Board
stated in December, according to an API
release: “This concern has been e11-
larged by recent large-scale production
of rockets which are available to theI
general public at a relatively low cost
through hobby shops and department

stores.”

} A GOOD ARTICLE, “Ballroom Dancing

-—— How Soon?” by Dick Kraus of

Teachers College, Columbia University,

appeared in the December 1958 issue‘
of J OHPER, published by the American

Association for Health, Physical Educa-I
tion, and Recreation. Look it over if you

can. He goes into a subject of impor-

tance to all recreation leaders: does

social dance instruction force young-

sters to grow up too fast?

) NEW FEDERAL TAX BILL. The Forand
Bill (Public Law 85-859) , effective Jan-
uary 1, 1959, exempts privately oper-
ated roller rinks and bathing beaches
from admission taxes. Prior exemption
was on admissions to ninety cents.

) WANTED: The following 1947 issues
of RECREATION—July, January, Feb-
ruary, March. We will appreciate re-
ceiving a set from anyone who does not

want them.

} TIIE NATIONAL PARK SERVICE, of thc
U.S. Department of the Interior, has
announced establishment of an arche-
ology branch to direct the service’s ex-
panding archeological programs. Park
Service director Conrad L. Wirth ex-
plains that the action was made neces-
sary in part by the increased role of
archeology in National Park arcas un-
der Mission 66, inaugurated in 1956.

RECREATION-

  

 

Readers! You are invited to send letters for this page

to Editor, RECREATION, 8 West Eighth Street, New
York I 1—so that your ideas, Opinions and attitudes
may be exchanged with others on the wide range 0/
subjects of concern to us all. Here is your chance to
agree or disagree with the authors of our articles.
Keep letters brief—not more than 250 words.

. Hurrah!
Sirs:

Hurrah! Finally, even though it
comes from outside the United States,
someone has attempted to justify rec-
reation’s existence based on a higher
purpose than just having fun. Mr. Ru-
dolf Opperman will, I hope, open the
eyes of many in the field of recreation
to the fact that we can justify recrea-
tion’s existence based on its contribu-
tion to the development of a well-ad-
justed personality. (Mr. Opperman’s
“Impressions of Recreation in Amer-
ica” appeared in February, 1959, REC-
REATION. Part II appears on page 92.)

I have felt for some time that we had
run amok and would never be able to
climb out! I hope now that the leaders
in recreation in this country will take
stock of this article and the one by Dr.
Norman Miller (“Research Techniques
for Recreation,” February).

It seems to me that it is most difficult
for our educators to know what to teach
students interested in recreation with-
out first knowing the philosophy which
will guide them.

With no acceptable philosophy giving
the field an inspiring purpose, the re-
cruitment dilIieulties will increase and
we will continue to have a deficit in the
number of graduates entering the field.
We must appeal to the student’s intelli-
gence rather than to the fact that he will
be dispensing fun.

I still like to use the quotation by
John Collier, “We have been too often
conducting pygmy programs seeking

pygmy results amid giant opportuni-
tics.”

Famkux C. HILL, Director, Parks

and Recreation Department, Rock
Hill, South Carolina.

“\Vllolehcartetl Response”
Sirs: .
I wholeheartedly respond to the work

of the National Recreation Association.
Until I received RECREATION magazine,

MARCH 1959

—The Editors.

I had no idea of the scope of its work.
As our local craft center in Brook-
field, Connecticut, continues, I become
more and more convinced of the impor-
tance of creativity or rccreativity in
some form or other. People will come
forty miles to us after a hard day’s
work. It’s a combination of getting
away from pressures or boredom as well
as a buttressing against retirement.
Added to this, the teachers of physi-
cally or mentally handicapped come to
us for practical help. It is a form of
adult education that rings a bell.

MRS. NANCY Donors HAGMAYER,
Broohfield Center, Connecticut.

Answer to “Controversial?”
Sirs:

This is in partial answer to “Contro-
versial?” on page 4- 0f the January,
1959, RECREATION. A close reading of
literature of the later nineteenth century
will tell you that many, many social
workers believed that added leisure time
(to be with us about 2000 AD.) would
prove the panacea needed to make every-
one a member of the all-happy human
family. How misinformed and mis-
guided so many of these leaders were!

Now we have a period of history
with hitherto unbelievable leisure time,
money, and facilities, and we have a
problem in mental health, tensions,
et al., never dreamed of.

Study after study has proved that
money, facilities, time, and so on will
not solve leisure-time problems. Like-
wise, study after study has proved that
leadership, and a knowledge of, and an
interest in (which usually follow each
other closely) will create activity (which
can be very healthy).

“One does the things he knows how
to do.” How many times have you heard
that? Our experience indicates that our
three biggest problems are:

I To teach youngsters wise use of lei-
sure time.

o A program for eighteen- to twenty-

MIOHAEI HEHHAH’S

noes FOLK one: oacu

«‘-

 

"The World oi Folk Dances" ls RCA Victor’s
most comprehensive series of folk-dance rec-
ords. lt Includes music, pictures. and instruc-
tions for 85 dances from 26 countries. And it’s

a graded series -— from klndergarten to college.
FIRST FOLK ounces (Len-1:25)
tor ages 5 to 8

FOLK OANCES FOR FUN (UM-1524)
tor third grade and up

ALL-PURPOSE FOLK OANCES (LPN-1623)
for age 8 and up

FOLK DANCES roe ALL AGES (LPN-1522)
tor age to and up

FESTIVAL FOLK DANCES (UM-1521)
tor slxth grade and up

HAPPY FOLK OhN-CES (LPN-1820)
tor age 12 and up

SPECIAL FOLK OANCES (LPN-161!)
for high school and college use

The entire series of 85 dances is now available
in seven L.P.or twenty-one45 rpm albums.Each
album can be bought separately. See and hear
these records at your RCA Victor record deal-
er's. Or, use coupon below for complete details.

09 oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo 00‘
o C
O

’ RCA Victor Record Division, Dept 206
155 East 24th Slreet, N. Y. 10. N. Y.

Please send me the tolder listing recordings 
at "The World at Folk Dances.” '

Name
Address g

city ,, _. _____ Zone State 
i O O O O O I I I O O H u I O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O I I O O O I I 0 O O I O I O O O O I O I I I I t 0 O O O O O O O I.

0 110931911 @

 

0“... 0..."...0-0 0.0 “0..

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 79

four-year-olds (an outgrth of the
above).

0 A program for older adults, senior
citizens, et al. (Here again we feel this
program someday will be sound, if the
educational process in leisure-time acti-
vity is good.)

We can’t buy the premise that people
just naturally do what is good for them
in this complex and commercial world.
We fecl that the “worthy use of leisure
time,” which is a cardinal principle of
education, needs far, far more accent
than it gets any place at present!

PAT DAWSON, Recreation Director,

Janesviile Public Schools, Ianesviile,

Wisconsin.

Of All Your

Recreation Facilities

0 Ice Skating Rinks
0 Swimming Pools

0 Field Houses

0 Tennis Courts

“I have Become Incenscd . . .”

Sirs:

I have just completed reading War-
ren Kershow’s article “Why Recrea-
tion?” (February). I have become in-
censcd at the assumption that a large
portion of our population is in favor of
letting the children take care of their
own recreational needs or that recrea-
tion represents bureaucracy and a drain
on the taxpayer.

If ever the American public was in
favor of supervised and well-organized
recreation, it is right now.‘Now, we have
a receptive public, but, alas, we have
often fallen down on the job of proper
and professional planning—thus leav-
ing a distaste in the mouths of citizens
who have witnessed and/ or possibly
have been a part of a program which
reeks of poor preparation. This is more
than likely the reason why we are so of-
ten referred to as “semiprofessionals.”

I am afraid that we cannot blame any
of our failures on a disinterested public,
but rather on the basis of wanting too
much too soon, to start with, or the in-
ability to cope with our local situation
in a satisfactory manner.

Although Mr. Kcrshow’s basic con-
cepts of educational factors of recrea-.
tion are important in our activities, I,
however, cannot bring myself to believe
that this is the end result for which we
strive. I feel that the cducational factor
represents the means to the end, rather
than the end itself.

I have never organized an activity or

Creative development of entire recreation areas,
backed up by years of experience (8-1 swimming pools, rinks,
and other facilities.)

PETER CARVER ASSOCIATES
70 East 45th Street
New York 17, New York

NEW IIIEAS ,NIHAMPllllllli
AlWAVS BHMEWNISSEN

 

New NISSEN
Am 6m
TRAMPOLINE

The popular medium-sized
TrampolIne that delivers stand-
ard performance for physical
education ONLY

programs of
elementary
and junior
high schools.
Smaller I'n °

size, big in Frame pads
value. optional and extra

 

 

New NISSEN
OVAL TUBING

Extra strength and
better bounce from
this nevir light-weight
frame desigs. Exclu-
sive with r‘issen, on
Regulation and Goliath
models.

2-Way FOLDING
FLEXIBILITY

All Nissen Trampo-
lines can be casIly

"half-folded" for

greater convenience,

and FLASH-FOLDED
for out-of-the-way
storage.

 

program in which the prime objective
was to insure that each participant
learned the activity in question, but
I have worked under the assumption
that through group association, the in-
dividual recrcation needs are met. The

physical education leader can, with a
little effort, teach you the basic funda-
mcntals of any and all activities, but it
takes the well-trained and experienced
recreator to see that these skills (the

means) are developed into a meaning-

ful experience.

'Req. U. 5. Pat. Off.

Home Office and Factory: 200 A Avenue, N.W., Cedar Rapids, Iowa, U.S.A.
Branch Offices and Factories:

NISSEN TRAMPOLINE COMPANY, LTD.

Hainault Works. Chadwell Heath. Romford, Essex. England

NISSEN TRAMPOLINE 0F_CA}«IAOA LTO., Ter. A.. Box 427, Toronto 1, Ontario
NISSEN TRAMPOLINE, G'urnlrgen (Berne) Switzerland

ooooooofF l'l’ iSN'T A NISSEN, l'l’ fSN'T A TRAMPOLINE 0000000

TRAMPOLINE C0.

 

RECREATION

on “TL-.. —.-—=‘:.-— I- cu..— 44-m3m HIM m—‘:l\— “1"th

The “intangible” qualities of true ree-

reation are many, but really very hard '
to define on paper. it only takes one in-
eident where a youth, adult, or golden- .

ager enjoys a meaningful event or activ-

ity while partieipating in one of yonr
programs to make you aware of your re- I R E E
sponsihilities of providing more than
than jnst an edneational experienee. . . .

1 write this not in critieism of Mr.
Kershow, but strietly as a means of air-
ing one reereator’s hasie concepts on 0 Ready #0 use
"Why Recreation ?” .
THOMAS E. Baannocx, Supervisor 0/ In any
Recreation, Skokie Park District, De-

partrnent of Parks and Recreation,
Skokie, Illinois. 1 5 

"Must Teach for Carry-Over . . ."

 SPACE

Hurray for Warren Kershow (Feli-

ruary) who tells us that the reereation i
must “teaeh for earry-over.” And a hip, INDOORS and
hip, hooray for Rudolf Oppertnan fFeh- OUTDOORS!

ruaryl who writes that “reereation I
must find a higher reason for its exist-

once and support than the mere gather- l 

ing together of people for the sake of

enjoyment.” S 9 5
It is unfortunate that far too few ree-

reation aetivities in our communities

today are planned to “teaeh for carry-

over.” And far too many are justified

solely on how many people have sth- THIS DAISY RANGE
ered together “for the sake of enjoy-

 

 

RANGE CONTENTS

 GUARANTEED, w 23.2mm:arias“  

 

Isn t tt ttme for all reereatton leaders w No. 500 cc“ Daisy as shot (“‘00 rounds)

to take a new look at reereation aetivi- To SOiiSfY You 0" "00) No [Olnnwdim she.“
ties to make sure that they are empha- Return It For (200) No 78_A omda, NRA Ag, Rm, 7mg,“
5- a re “ f r ,, V '
sizmgltohose \stth .earry-ox er \alues pROMpT REFUND (200) "m 784, Prank. urge“ (400 bum)
andgtehng the public phat those values BY SePL 1' 1959! (2) No. 13 Rang. Backstops (portable, sou-
are. And shouldnt “e hegtn to drop standlng corrugated with canvas backstop)
those aetnnttes whieh are useful only (I) Riftotnstructors Packet
in the puffing of attendanee figures?

HAROLD W. WILLIAMS, occasional 

contributor to RECREATION Maga- MUST be on omciOI Rec.
zine, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.

 

reation Department Pur-

The International Situation Chase Order l° ear" this SAFER SPR|NG-'|'YPE  RIFLES
Sirs: 950“ $3495 Prlce' DAISY MANUFACTURING COMPANY

1,, reviewing the January issue of Order Yours Today. orn.5339,aoo£ns. ARKANSAS, U.S.A.

RECREATION, l note in the article pre-
pared by Bob Horney the statement.
“international reereation will develop if
international relationships improve.”
While we do not dispute this obser-
vation, it oeeurs to us that the reverse is
likewise true, mainly, international re-
lationships can be improved through in-
ternational reereation aetivities. This is

 

 

 
   
 
  

Lists training aids and equipment .
the premise on whieh our eommittee for club or classroom instruction. An
was organized and there is evidenee in essential gurde
alinndanee that good sportsmen, be- t   '0 an iMPOr- 0
cause they have learned to praettee fair  ’ / ' tan, activity. .
play. make excellent ambassadors, wrth- . — -*-  ' '-

ont portfolio, for their respeetive coun-
tries.

lint)”: P. F. EAGAN, Chairman. Peo- l

ple-to-People Sports Committee, New .
York, New York, 5. Q Q Q :0 usrrmn SIREN,N.Y.3,N.‘t.-cttamercy O O O O O O 0

Write Dept. I for
AMHICA s 010531 AND “tout mronus AND MANUIACtqut or

 

O
O
yow free copy .
O

H men 1959 When writing to our advertiser! please mention Ream-4110.1. 81

Camping . . .

by the Day

T {E DAY CHIP is primarily distinguishable from the
overnight camp by virtue of the fact that the child re-
turns to his home each evening. Otherwise. the more nearly
it approaches the situations prevailing in true camping, in
program. facilities. or both, the better. It is the place where
a camping atmosphere pervades, where a nearness to nature
is felt, where activities not available in a winter program
are enjoyed. and the other values obtainabie only in camp.

Everyone. knows what camping includes and that. in ad-
dition to the above. a camper learns many other exciting
things. such as the techniques of firebuilding, cook outs.
exploring, how to make a nature trail. and so onr-all under
the guidallcebf trained and experienced counselors. Taps
and sleeping under the stars are about the only activities
denied him in a well-planned day camp. and sometimes even
these are managed.

The following comments and information have been re-
ported by recreation departments about day camps now en-
joying successful operation.

Topeka. Kansas-e -Thc Inost worthwhile undertaking of the
Topeka Recreation Commission has been the day-camp pro-
gram. with its capacity attendance and participation. The
results of this year's camp program point out, beyond a
doubt. that this can be an answer to many of the leisure-

“Some of Childhood’s nicest memories are
of long golden summer days spent our-of-doors.”

time ills and problems of present-day living for boys and
girls under fifteen years of age. I sincerely believe that
more true value can be obtained, recreationally. from dollars
Spent on the day-camp program than probably on any other
one activity normally conducted in a municipal recreation
program. The fact that the element of adventure can be in-
jected into the program more realistically in this setting
plays an important part in this picture.

Activity in a day-camp atmosphere takes on a newer
“look” than the same activity on a neighborhood play-
ground or park. It is this new perspective that provides the
experience of adventure that holds the concentrated atten-
tion of the boy and girl so much more than is possible in a
neighborhood or playground setting.

Boating and canoeing were added to the day-camp activi-
ties in expanding and enlarging the eight live-day weekly
sessions.

Considerable emphasis was given to the continued devel-
opment of the volunteer junior-leader program. The eighty-
two boys and sixty-eight girls serving in this capacity re-
ceived invaluable training and experience in leadership.
We believe these to he values not obtainable in any other
way except through this kind of experience.

Six hundred and forty-seven boys and 454 girls, making a

Cooking over a campfire during day camp program a] Ilillsborougll River Slale Park near Zcpllyrllills, Florida.

 

total of 1101, plus 150 junior leaders, a total of 1251 eamp-
ers registered and participated in the eamp program.—
R: FOSTER BLAISDELL. Superintendent, in Kansas Recrea-
tion Soeiety Journal, September-October, 1957.

Kansas City, Missouri—Parents in Kansas City ean register
their child in one of ten day camps, for a registration fee
'of $1.00 to eover a period of one or more weeks. The pro-
gram ineludes erafts, games, trips, eamping aetivities, and
weekly swimming.

A direetor and eounselors are assigned to eaeh day eamp,
the staff consisting of adult teaehers and college students
speeially trained to work with children. The program op-
erates Monday through Friday, from 9:30 A.M. to 3:30 PM.
The children are expected to attend regularly. They bring
their own lunches. Fresh milk, delivered to camp daily, is

I'made available for seven eents per half pint. Rest periods
are a part of eaeh day’s sehedule. Regular trips are taken

I by ehartered bus to the swimming pool and other points of
interest around the eity. Eaeh ehild must furnish written
permission from his parents in order to go on these “away-
from-day-eamp-trips.”

Arlington County, Virginia—Our day-camp program is
charaeterized by an out-of-doors setting, eamp-type activi-
ties, experienee in small-group living under adult leadership,
healthfuldiving, and primarily . . . fun, adventure and new

I experienees as a result of outdoor living.

I The program comprises the thinking and planning of the

whole camp eommunity ineluding the eampers themselves,
I. under the supervision and guidanee of trained and experi-
'enced counselors. Campers are divided into age groups.
Camp aetivities include eamperafts, eook onts, firehuilding,
knot tying, explorations, hiking, nature lore, nature crafts,

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
    
       
  
  
 
 
 
 

singing, low organized games, arehery, stunts, games, swim-
iing. and closing program. Swimming instruction is given
y counselors. eertiiied as Red Cross Swimmers. Rainy-day
rograms consist of soeial games, erafts, storytelling and
inging, under shelter.

r

Campers arrive promptly at 8:30 A.M., transportation to
a d from camp being provided by the parent. The camping
,on consists of three eamp periods, eaeh of three weeks
ration. Any child seven years of age but not yet fourteen
n or before June 18, 1956, may register. A total fee of
wenty dollars per three-week period is payable at the time
of registration. This fee includes Inilk eaeh day, eainperaft
rials, transportation for swimming trips, swimming fees
. d the use of two day-eamp shirts. In addition, campers
are asked to bring a small amount of money for weekly
on]; eook outs. Registrations for one or more eamp periods
tart on June 4th and continue until all camp vaeancies are

ll-led.

Campers are asked to bring a luneh eaeh day (milk is
,. ovided) and are notified when to bring swimming suits,
vebi. cook-out money, and so on. Camp elothing consists
f shorts or jeans, soeks. sturdy shoes, and camp shirts.
' base are issued on the first day of eamp and must be re-
ned to the counselor on the last day of the camp period.

II

*cn 1959

 

Thrill of the fisherman is experienced in Columbia Park Day
Camp, Chieago Park Distrlel. Program should hrlng the child-
ren closer to nature, leave eit)’ playground aetivities beblnd.

For rainy days, children are requested to dress warmly and
to have raineoat and hat.

Day-Camp Objectives

The eamp program should afford an opportunity for the
campers to partieipate in a creative outdoor gronp experi-
ence in a democratic setting, and should provide for the de-
velopment of each individual.

The camp should develop objectives in the following
areas:

0 Outdoor living.

0 Fun and adventure.

0 Soeial adjustment—for example. the devel0pment of in-
dependenee and reliability, the ability to get along with
others, and values in group living.

0 An understanding of individuals and groups of varied
baekgrounds.

0 lm provement of health.

0 Skills and appreciation, partienlarly as related to the out-
of-doors.

0 Spiritual values.

The program should be so planned, administered, and
supervised as to lead to the aehievement of general eamping
objeetives and the speeial objectives of the particular camp.
It is recommended that these be stated in writing. Essen-
tially, the program should be related to the central theme
of living together in a natural environment and learning to
enjoy the out-of-doors.—From Day Camp Standards, a leaf-
let puhlished by Ameriean Camping Association. Bradford
Woods, Martinsville, Indiana.

\Vhere Shall the Campers Camp?

The following is based on the experienee of the Day Camp
l'nit of the Department of Health, New York City.

83

How can you combine the urban advantages of a large
city with the feel of.nature you want in your “ideal” camp
site? That question has no easy answer. It is certainly a chal-
lenge to find a spot in the city where your campers can spend
a major part of every day in the open air.

We had luck on our side. We live near the outskirts and
like to feel that we are as close to nature as we can possibly
get and still be city dwellers.

Here are some of the goals we kept in mind as we first
began hunting for a place to camp:

1) Large enough space, seventy-five to a hundred square
feet per child, with a variety of surfaces free from hazards.

2) Adequate drainage.

3) Trees and bushes providing adequate shade.

4) Easily accessible to transportation.

5) Enough nearby toilet facilities and drinking water.

6) Nearby emergency medical facilities.

7) Adequate indoor space.

All these aims may not be immediately within reach but
can be de\ eloped as the camp grows. Certain regulations
which the various city departments have established are
included in the appendix to this guide. Meanwhile, here
are some specific standards a camp should meet regarding
indoor and outdoor facilities.

Indoor Facilities and Equipment

Naturally you will need enough space to accommodate all
the children—-—and this is generally agreed to be thirty to
thirty-fi ve square feet of floor space per child in each activity
room. Some of our rooms not large enough for an active
program are used for quiet activities such as reading, listen-
ing to music, and table games. Remember that children like
to be in rooms that are cheerful and colorful.

Every room should have at least one window which opens
onto a public thoroughfare or a yard or court. The yard
or court should he at least ten feet wide and extend the
length or width of the huilding. lf the windows constitute
less than ten per cent of the floor area. you should also pro-
vide adequate ventilation by some mechanical means.

Now here’s a word about room lighting. Light is measured
in foot-candles, and the Illuminating Engineering Society
and American Institute of Architects recommend thirty
foot-candles of light in a workroom; ten foot-candles in
washrooms, lunchrooms, and stairways; and five foot-
candles in open corridors. You can ask the Bureau of Sani-
tary Inspections of the Department of Health to check.

Here’s a word about the toilet facilities that must be pro-
vided. There should be a minimum of one toilet for each
fifteen children. If you have more than one hundred chil-
dren, one toilet for each twenty-five children will be ade-
quate. There should be separate toilets for boys and girls
over six years of age. \Vhere urinals are provided for hoys,
at least one-quarter of the fixtures should be flush toilets.

One washbasin will serve twenty-five children. Toilet and
washing facilities should be under supervision at all times
while the children are using them.

For that cool drink of water———so refreshing and so es-
sential on a hot sultry day——-the easiest solution is drinking

84

fountains. Drinking fountains should be of the angle-jet
type, with suflicient pressure to raise the water one inch
above the spout. If water is drawn from tap or faucet, uSe
disposable paper cups.

The kitchen and dining areas need special attention. Not
only should they be arranged so that food can be prepared
and served efficiently, but they must be kept sanitary.

If you plan activities involving power tools or kilns or
such special equipment, don’t forget to check in advance to
see if the building is adequately wired. Naturally you’ll
provide pr0per safety devices on this equipment.

The equipment you will need depends on the age of the
children, how many there are, and the variety of activities
you will offer. It should suit their size. For example, the
chairs should permit their feet to rest on the floor; the table
tops should be within easy reach. Lockers should be sized
to permit the children to hang up their own extra bathing
suit, towel, and sweater. ( Locker ventilation is important.)

Here are some other indoor facilities you’ll need: isolation
space in case a youngster becomes ill; oflice space for the
director and the staff too, if possible; a room set aside for
counselors; storage space for supplies and equipment.

Outdoor Facilities and Equipment

Some of Childhood’s nicest memories are those of long
golden summer days spent out-of-doors. Happy is the day-
camp director who can provide that kind of experience. If
not. the wise operator tries to give his campers as niuch out-
of-doors fun as he can. Discovering the natural life of this
world of ours is still possible, even in urhan New York.

if your camp site offers no outdoor area, the next hest
thing is to arrange to use a public park. Check on availa-
hility of picnic tables, benches, fireplaces, and storage facili-
ties. Then check in person the specific area that is assigned
to you. Be prepared to transport your own equipment every
day. \Ve suggest that you furnish toilet tissue, soap, and
paper towels for your campers.

Out-of-door facilities must include some place to go in
case of rain. To get away from prolonged exposure to the
sun, tents may be practical. Awnings. canopies, and beach
unihrellas may serve. If you go there by bus, keep the buses
handy for emergencies.

If you are like most of us, you are looking forward to the
day when you will have your own camp site. The American
Camping Association can give you names of professional
camp planners for assistance with site selection, terrain
problems, building materials, and current construction costs.

And you can let your imagination come into its own when

U a O I C
It s time to choose equipment. I’m happy to note a sw1ng .
away from the standard secsaws and climbing bars. How I

much more fun is an old car, a trolley, a fire engine or may-

be even an airplane or boat—stripped of their hazardous I

parts, inviting the children to improvise, to dream up situa-
tions, to set their imaginations in action. We need to use
all our ingenuity in the choice of equipment. What a satisfy-
ing feeling it would give us to watch the 'gradual and sys-
tematic devel0p1nent of our own camp site—Reprinted with
permission from A Day Camp Director Speaks, Lucille
Peterson McCabe, editor. NYC Department of Health.

RECREATION I

 
   

Immediate citizen action is vitally

needed in the fight to keep our
green spaces or to acquire new
ones [or the future.

ct

That
" Land!

Urban Sprawl

 

 
 
   

In the next three or four years, Amer-
' 'ns will have a chance to decide how
‘ at a place this country will be to
'e in now, and for generations to
ne. Already huge patches of once
en countryside have been turned
o vast, smog-filled deserts that are
II ther city, suburb, nor country, and
-" h day—--at a rate of some three
' nsand acres a day—~more country-
e is being bulldozed under. You
I't stop progress, they say, yet much
re of this kind of progress and we
II have the paradox of prosperitys
wring our real standard of living.

a With characteristic optimism, most
l nerieans still assume that there will
plenty of green space on the other
of the fence. But this time there
n't be. It is not merely that the
I ntrysidc is ever receding; in the
at expansion of the metropolitan
as, the subdivisions of one city are
inning to meet up with the sub-
visions of another. Flying from Los
gelcs to San Bernardino—an un-

l
I!
I

   
    
  
   
 
  
    
 

I'
F-

l.
I

   
    
  
      
   
 
   
  
 
  
  
 
  
      
    
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

I"

I.

I I O O I
rvmg lesson In man’s mfimte capa-

y to mess up his environment—uthe
hveler can see a legion of hulldozers
_ swing into the last remaining tract
green between the two cities, and
om San Bernardino another legion
bulldozers gnawing westward. l'ligil
*r New Jersey, midway between New
rk and Philadelphia, the air traveler
.' a fleeting illusion of green space,
_ t mos-t of it has already been bought
), and outlying supermarkets and
ive-in theaters arc omens of what is
come. 0n the outer edge of the pres-

'l

l-

ARCH 1959

cut Philadelphia metropolitan area,
where there will be one million new
people in the ten years ending in l960,
some of the loveliest countryside in the
world is being irretricvably fouled, and
the main body of suburbanites has yet
to arrive.

The problem, of course, is not an ab-
solute shortage of laml. Even with the
sixty million increase in population ex-
pected in the next two decades, Amer-
iea’s 1.0 billion acres of land will be
quite enough to house people, and very
comfortably. It will not be enough.
however, if land is squandered. It is
in the metropolitan area that most peo-
ple are going to be living. and the fact
that there will remain thousands of
acres of, say, empty land in Wyoming
is not going to help the man living in
Teaneck, New Jersey.—-—th.t.t.ut H.
WIIYTE, .18., in The Exploding Metrop-
olis (Doubleday, $3.95).

 

Conerele elm'erlenfs deflower the
eonntryside.

Are Parks I'l‘oo Expensive?

When you spot an effort to take over
your community’s parks, you ought to
scream, jump up and down, protest in
the name of your children aml your
children’s children. After all, our land
is a priceless heritage and this genera-
tion has no right to disinherit those of
the future.

Usually the campaign to invade the
parks flaunts an economy hanner: “Put
the city garage on city land and save
. . . " or, “Let’s not keep this land oil
tax rolls any longer.”

Such pocketbook appeals sound ha rd-
headed. but you can fight back with
more than soft talk about the beauty
of greenery or how the kids need a place
to play. Giving Up parks to save money
may well be false economy. For one
thing. parks usually increase tax values
in surrounding property. In Pittsburgh,

Pennsylvania, for example, a sixty-acre
slum was razed; half was rebuilt, the
other half left as park. A few years
later, despite the thirty aeres taken off
the tax rolls, land value of the entire
tract increased $10,500,000.

Replacing lost parks can be hideously
expensive, even prohibitive. Running
a freeway through Griffith Park in Los
Angeles revealed that any adjoining
open land bought to compensate for the
loss would cost $35,000 an acre. lf open
land is cXpensive and getting searccr
every day, can your town still lay its
hands on any decent parkland, or is it
too late for anything but regrets?

Yes, you can still get parks. It is not
too late—yet. Many localities may have
golden opportunities under their noses
right now. Despite the headlong spread
of suburbs over the countryside, a sur-
prising amount of open land has been
left hchind. Subdivisions have leap-
frogged each other in their respective
quest for cheaper acreage, sometimes
jumping sizable tracts. Bypassed areas
may have been too small for devcl0pers
with big ideas, they may have had topo-
graphical features that would make
building expensive, or the land may
have been hard to buy up in a hurry.

All of these bypassed tracts arc pos-
sible park sites. The enveloping sub-
divisions provide their natural users.
The terrain that discouraged builders
might be just right for recreation. Not
every idle scrap of land will do, of
course. The task of selection belongs
to your locality’s planning and recrea-
tion officials; but, almost certainly,
some of those vacant spots ought to be
parks and nothing else, ever.

Your community should be sizing up
the possibilities right now, too. for a
very good reason. You'll never get your
parks any cheaper. Stalling means more.
eXpense in the end. Ask any informed
real estate man what those lands sold
for ten years ago!—-—-From “Get Your
Com munin to Crab That Vacant Land."

Changing Times. August, 1958.

 

"A vigorous. progressive park pro-
gram must be maintained in order to
make highly industrialized urban life not
only bearable but happy, interesting, and
attractive."—--Romaar Moses.

 

85

 

can

Y WORK, as a park and rccreation superintendent, has
M included urisdiction over the tree and moth work in
the community. In this dual role, there has been an opporo
tunity to correlate these two apparently disparate helds and
to discover that the executive who directs forestry and moth

work has a direct contribution to make to his community’s
rccreation program.

To appreciate properly the potentiality of the tree expert,
we must realize that in the scemingly perfunctory work of
caring for shade trces—in the work-aoday world of plant-
ing, trimming, spraying, or removing trees—the tree warden
is engagcd in one of thc most inspiring occupations avail-
able to a layman.

The trce warden is cquippcd with knowledge in a special
held of education—a knowledge which, when imparted to
the imprcssionahle minds of youngsters, helps to bring out
and cultivate some of the finer human qualities. A child
who becomes interestcd in trees and regards them as things
of beauty and utility: who appreciates that a tree, to live its
life, must breathc and 'drink and feed; who learns that,
though stomachlcss, a tree gets hungry; though mouthless,
it requires drink; though lunglcss, it breathes in oxygen;
who acquires the knowledge that the sap of a trec is drawn
by capillary action from the roots and flows out to the leaves;
a child whose life is cnriched with these and other facts
about a tree has assimilated something that adds to his
education, providing him with a leisure-time hobby that
will enrich his entirc life.

The opportunity for sharing information about trees and
stimulating a love for them is afforded today in the recrea-
tion programs of our cities and towns. Whether set up in
separate recreation departments or under the park or
school departments, these programs provide a leisure-time
held of education which, in many respects, surpasses the

H—————‘—‘-—"‘—_————-————_—___—__—_—___

MR. MAHONEY was superintendent of recreation in Cam-
bridge, Massachusetts.

86

Recreation programs oger an Opportu-
nity to stimidate a Iove for trees and an
appreciation of their beauty and utiiity.

The Place of the

Tree Warden in
Recreation

Stephen Mahoney

formal education of the classroom. The recreation unit
with its noncompulsory attendance, its freedom unrestricte

by scheduled periods and ringing bells, its patrons engage

in pursuits of their own liking rather than prescribed cur
ricula, has a wholly informal atmosphere, in contrast to th

formality necessarily pervading the classroom. That is wh

playground or recreation center constitutes an ideal place
for teaching fair play, truthfulness, respect for the right

of others, cooperation, and many of the other abstract qual
ities so esscntial to the physical, mental, and social well-
heing of thc individual.

Young people and adults enjoy music, drama, art, an
social activitics. Thcy enjoy making things, collecting.
things, and studying the beautiful gifts nature has provided.

It is in this latter held that the tree expert can be of serv-
ice to the rccreation program. The October, 1946, issue of
RECREATION Magazine carried an account of the Juniorl
Foresters, an organization of children in Omaha, Nebraska.
It describes a course of instruction consisting of six leco I
tures and démonstrations given by the city forester. The
main subjects: how a tree grows—including the structure
and functions of its various parts; how to plant a tree——
best varieties to plant and how to space them; how to care
for a tree—pruning, watering, fertilizing; tree enemies and
methods of control; products made from trees and other in-
teresting facts; methods and demonstrations of tree surgery.

Other ways of bringing such information to the patrons
of the recreation unit include tree trails for the study of

varieties, explaining and identifying trees by bark and leaves,

and discussing the esthetic and economic values of trees.
Emphasis should be placed on their cost to the taxpayer,
their value in providing shade, their value in watersheds,
their furnishing of homes for the birds, and their use in the
construction of dwellings, furniture, and other necessities.

A cross section of a tree trunk can show injuries, knots,
and the work of insects. If you count the rings, beginning
with the outside one, which shows the most recent year’s
growth, you will know the tree’s age. Point out the outer

RECREATION

 
  

lbark which protects the tree from injury; the inner bark
which carries food from the leaves to all parts of the tree;
the cambium layer which builds the new cells of wood and
lbark; the sapwood which carries the sap front roots to
leaves; the differently colored heartwood which gives the
llrec strength; the pith rays which connect the various layers
1from core to bark.

Look for the wide rings and the narrow rings and try
ho speculate on the reason for variations in width. Perhaps
the rainfall record, by years, will prove enlightening in ex-
plaining the varying width of the rings. Describe how the
wider growth occurs on the sunnicr side of the tree and de-
cide, with your audience, which side of the tree received
the greatcr amount of sunlight. Try to determine the causes
of the deformations seen in the rings. Insert a human touch
n your inspection by speculating from the ring formation
5 to the size of the tree at the time of some historical evcnt
n the community or in the nation.

There is material galore available to the tree expert, for
the devel0pment of an interesting miniature course in thc
udy of trees for young recreation groups. \Vhat better ex-
]erience for a youngstcr than watching the unfolding of a
and of different types of trees! How many youngsters—or

 
   
 
 
  
   
 
   
 
  
   
    
 
  
 

ldsters for that matter—have ever seen an elm tree in
aloom? Which are the worst enemies of trees—discasc, in-
-.-. ts, fire, animals, or man? How can trces be protected
; ainst t'heseocpcmics? What trecs lose their leaves in win-
r? How do leaves fall? There is practically no limit to the
ossibilities opened up when this nature course gets under
.a)._

A most practical contribution of the tree expert to the
recreation prOgram in a community is the planting of shade
ees around:or in the playground area. Noplace is as un-
inviting as ’3" harren, Opein playground. Some—yes, most—
of our city playgrounds are deficient in this respect. Not
only from the viewpoint of civic beauty, but for comfort and

\

¥¥¥¢§¥

pleasure as well. should recreation areas be planted. And
don’t forget one or two small clumps of trees in a corner of
the area where, on thc warm sultry days of the summer,
children can enjoy passive games, listen to storytelling, or
engage in handcrafts.

Such planting may be tnade a part of the playground pro-
gram. I know of no better civic lesson than to team up with
the recreation director in planning a formal planting pro-
gram, with appropriate songs and speeches. Trees thus
planted usually stimulate a proprietary attitude on the part
of those participating in the program, and consequently are
usually more certain of protection during their growth.

Don’t neglect the moth situation in connection with play-
ground cool)eration. I recall vividly a visit I once made to
a city playground. to witness a special program. While
standing with a group at one side, I noticed several cater-
pillars crawling in the area, and, looking a few feet away,
noted some poplars literally covered by myriad satin moths.
The health of the trees in a play area is most assuredly the
tree warden’s responsibility. Regular trimming of the trees
located on play areas and the elimination of dead or weak-
ened limbs as a precautionary measure against the possible
serious injury to some small child is also a contribution to
the recreation program. The provision of picnic groves,
outdoor amphitheaters, and other facilities are possibilities
in many communities; other opportunities present them-
selves from time to time.

Finally, from the practical standpoint, there is a benefit
to the tree warden from all this. Is it not inevitable that the
cooperation of the tree eXpert in the recreation program
will bring to the members of the community a greater love
and respect for the trees of that community? Can we not
expect therefrom the recruiting of young foresters who will
instinctively aid in the protection of the .trees? Yes, cer-
tainly, once they regard them as among the most bounteous

gifts of the Great Creator for the enjoyment of man. 1‘?

 

TREES OF THE GRAND KHAN ~

¥¥¥¥¥§TI

   
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
   
 

0f the trees which he causes to be
planted at the sides of the roads, and
of the order in which they are kept.
There is another regulation ad0pted
by the grand khan, equally ornamental
d useful. At both sides of the public
roads he caums trees to be planted, of
kind that become large and tall, and
a ing only two paces asunder, they
rve (besides the advantage of their
nude in summer) to point out the road

. ARCH 1959

(when the ground is covered with
snow) ; which is of great assistance and
affords much comfort to travelers. This
is done along all the high roads, where
the nature of the soil admits of plan-
tation; but when the way lies through
sandy deserts or over rocky mountains.
where it is impossible to have trees, hc
orders stones to he placed and columns
to be erected, as marks for guidancc.
He also appoints officers of rank, whose

duty it is to see that all these are proper-
ly arranged and the roads constantly
kept in good order. Bcsides the motives
that have been assigned for these planta-
tions, it may be added that the grand
khan is more disposed to make them,
from the circumstance of his divincrs
and astrologers having declarcd that
those who plant trees are rewardcd with
long life—The Travels of Marco Polo.
Orion Press, New York.

87

A discussion of the interests and characteristics
of campers at various age levels should never
he omitted from a counselor-training program.

Lois Goodrich

AgevLevel
Characteristics

of Campers

Decentralized camping is small-group camping un-

der the supervision of one over-all director. In Trail
Blazer Camps (formerly Life Camps) each. small
group, led by two counselors, erects its own shelter,
prepares and serves its own. food, plans, and carries
out its own program according to camp policies.
Says Miss Goodrich: “In camps where leaders have
dared leave regintentation and rigid schedules behind
and put campers in small family groups in a back-t0—
earth simple life, in the out-of—doors. working out real-
life situations and problems, these leaders have the
rare opportunity of discovering the real camper and
0/ having him discover his place in the group and later

in. the community.”

TAPE MEETINGS at camp should be

held from time to time, to find
what counselors find valuable from re-
ports on their campers of preceding
summers. Counselors’ notes and writ-
ten reporLs ahout campers should be a
part of the camp only to the extent that
they are found valuable, and they
should be under constant evaluation.
The director should follow up during
the year, to see if the reports are really
used, whether they have been of value,
and obtain suggestions from agencies
or parents for making them of more
value.

A discussion of the environmental
problems, pressures, and tensions of
the camper population, as a whole,
should certainly be included in pre-
camp training program, especially if

38

 

counselors come from distant areas and
are not acquainted with the cultural pat-
terns from which campers come.

From some of the records, stall
should choose some typical problems,
such as enuresis [bed wetting], home-
sickness, fighting, and work together on
possible means toward their resolu-
tion. This may be done through role
play or through discussion of cases
cited from counselors’ previous experi-
ence.

A discussion of camp interests and
characteristics of children at various
age levels should never be omitted from
the counselor training program of any
camp. This helps counselors to under-
stand the camper to know what to ex-
pect—what should be considered nor-
mal. A brief of such material found

 

talking, for thinking about themselves, dreaming of the future.

valuable in the small-group decent-
ralized camp follows. f Each camp
should add from its own observations
over the years the items suited to its
own program.)

Age-Level Characteristics and
Interests of Children

{A Guide to Better Understanding of
Them, a Basis for Program Planning)

Eight- and Nine-Year-Olds
o No sustained projects for the month.

0 Don't expect permanent friendships.
They explore friends—anyone who will
work or play with them for an hour is
a friend for that time.

0 One-hour activity is too long—a half
hour is better.

0 Not too much adventure—it makes

RECREATION

 

Iighl- and nine-year (lltls, parlieulnrly. love animals—al-

though often seared of them. They are hardly ever bored.

 

The. elevens and twelves consult with a counselor. They are
interesled in planning. can devise, own menus and programs.

them fearful. Their adventure is largely
fantasy, so allow for acting out.

0 Love dramaties. costumes. and story-
lelling. especially girls.

0 Not sell-conseious—will partieipate
easily.

0 Not too much excitement. It makes
them nervous.

0 Everything must be fun. \Iotivate
with the fun angle. Don't attempt the
.6 . ‘9

educational approaeh.

0 They like repetition.
0 They are hardly ever bored.

0 They love animals. although thev are
a little seared.

0 Short lessons in the garden ean be
good—(’spet'ially if harvesting or berry
piekin". I

ill—men 1959

The “work camp

J

0 You can break down food dislikes
easily.

0 They have natural curiosity.

0 The) will (lo anything if it is with an
adult. They will seldom take direction
from peers.

0 Coordination and skil' development
are primitive. They are elumsy.

e Chores are aireepted as neeessau
evils nmeh (lawdlingr -so translate the
chores. to fun. Through ehures like bed.
makine. talk about home: (lranntim

ehnres; singing help.» all ehores.

o Restless about bedtime. Mm tak- .:
few day:- In get the. habit ol mt t. I‘km

o Thumb-an. kine should hm. atuppru
at live Years. If it persists- it ali'nnlt‘
inseeul'ih

99-
I

 

den is popular with boys Illirleen to aim

teen. Not too responsible or skilled. they want independenee.

 

The. Ihirleen- Io sixteen-year-olds are. beginning to be “com-
munin conscious." This ehild is lending a eomnmnily garden.

0 Expect bed-wetting from many.

0 Honest reasoning: but not formal
evaluations. Mainly thm like it or don't
like it.

0 They have no emception nl time.

This is the eunnselors' responsibility
TPII'. 127mm}.-. and Trreh'rwl‘ear-Uldw-

0 l'his is the time (signal I)l1_\!‘~lnl02lt u
develtqnnent.

0 This is the most .ruup minded .l‘;
the. gang

' I20 assertion: b ".{itllllllg to nu}.
lmgt‘ «Mull-H: qlmltt'lnu. ltml .um-s.
fighting.

o l‘ln-y w.uu tln h v. .1 tln ulu't. b-

uinnin snspiv ion of adult} I um as 1.

giving luve and Ittrt‘.tiu-n' tln. 'll .lu'.
iii-gill! in: st in. - r

. ‘rv 1e ‘lLII-l;

. rushes an munsulm .

 

 

‘ a u a t
The ‘gang” has found a turtle and Is fasemated by its retractable safety mechanism.
These boys are eleven and twelve--—the age for intellectual curiosity and discovery.

0 They want to be older than they are.

0 Want the privileges of the older
campers.

0 They will do a finished job and their

interest can be sustained for a month on
a project.

0 Prefer group activities to individual
activities. Capitalize on it.

0 They like adventure—hfewer qualms.

0 Will take long hikes. \“othing daunts
them.

0 Tremendous amount of intellectual
activityhnature. science, songs, wak-
ing to interracial aspects of life. waking
to vocational plans. \ieed much pro-

gram.

0 Will accept housckecping and cook-
ing responsibilities and usually do them
better than any other age grOUp.

o Veed much supervision in hygiene
and personal appearance; careless.

o (iirls’ beginning interest in males.
and consciousness of dress and groom-

ing “hen boys are near. This can be
motivation in cleanliness and grooming.

0 Will Work on construction projects.

0 Ready to study local pcople and his—
tory and get information, and love it.

o Excited about berry picking, fishingr
and cooking afterwards.

()0

0 Curiosity about art and willing to
work on murals, music, and like litera-

ture.

0 Love to talk about home and family
and their relationships.

0 They like to plan their own powwows
and are capable.

0 They have a real sense of humor.
0 They are able to evaluate.

0 They_have a sense of fairness.
Thirteen- to Sixteen-Year-Olds

0 They like a work camp—a real proj-
ect. Not prepared for work, not too re-
sponsible, not skilled, poor work habits,
but want to learn to earn and be in-
dependent.

0 They are ready to break from parents
-—“Parents don’t know anything”—and
this may include counselors. Counselors
can help to heal it over by acting as
older sister or brother.

0 They are dependent on each other,
are cliquish, and fights are group fights.

0 Approach to opposite sex done in
groups—security in numbers. Social

events with boys and girls should be ar-
ranged in groups, and should be dis-
missed with them before and after.

0 Pace is slowed down physically.

0 They are hard to motivate.

0 Individually, they are bothered about
a lot of things. They need to talk things
out with you and with each other. They
won’t seek you out but will Want you.

0 They are extremely moody.

0 They are bored by repetition and
want to do new things.

0 They can do sustained projects—re-
quire motivation, but resent leaders’
taking over. Must work indirectly. Don’t
give orders in your working relation-

ships.

0 They can take responsibility. Able to
follow through.

0 Love discussion and can do research
for discussion or program. Make them
come prepared.

0 Careless and ungainly. Emphasis on
manners, grooming, and hygiene.

0 They are extremely talkative usually,
but like periods of isolated quiet.

0 Writing and diary keeping are popu-
lar.

0 W’illing to help others.

0 Community conscious. Period when
philanthropic and charitable tendencies
bcgin. Beginnings of social responsi-
bility; spark this.

0 Can be made conscious of first aid.
Many girls want to assist the nurse.

0 They want to take trips to new places.
0 Interest in sex education.

0 Interest in vocations.

0 Enjoy singing.

0 Encourage dramatic interests in
those who have them.

0 Interest in wide variety of crafts in-
cluding woodworking, sculpture, and
jewelry making; creative writing and
journalism; gardening.

0 Swimming, although beginners may
be reluctant.

0 Interested in reading—good can be
encouraged and bad cut out.

0 Good time to get racial and intercul-
tural attitudes across.

0 Never be shocked by them. #

 

Reprinted, with permission, from the
counselor-training section of Decentral-
ized Camping, just published by Associ-
ation Press, New York City. $4.75.
MISS GOODRICH is executive director of
Trail Blazer Camps, Inc., and is also
chairman of leadership training of the
New York Seqtion, American Camping
Association.

RECREATION

    
  
 
     
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
       
    

" lus Ideas
or Camp

l \Veatlter Station

Why not set up a weather bureau in

ur camp or on your camp grounds?
eather is of special interest where all
tivities, or most of them, take place
oof-doors. \Veather forecasting is
rfectly possible if we learn to observe
curately and to understand that the
ns—temperatures, clouds, winds, and
pressures as measured by barome-
-—all have their meanings.

‘-

Early morning and evening skies.
instance, give accurate indication of
ther ahead. A cloud chart, which
the weather story, can be obtained
color from Louis D. Rubin, Box
15, Richmond 26, Virginia, for twen-

.l

   
 
  
    
 
  
  
     
  
 
  
  
   
    
 
  
  

ve cents, as can a small and very
' ,- ful booklet W hat’s the W eath-er Go-
_ Ito Be? for ten cents.
. l'though barometers can be pur-
sed, it is simple to make one your-
Fill an empty beverage bottle
t one fifth full of water. Select a
. t-fitting cork and run a oine-quarter-
1 glass tube through it and down in-
e water.
2 s fair weather, with its greater air
re, approaches, the weight of the
resting on the only opening to the
tle, the glass tube, will press down
the water in the tube and force the
r level up in the bottle. As long as
water level stands high and con-
cs to rise in the bottle, fair weather
lead, and we say the barometer
ng. A string on the outside of the
e will help you to keep track of the

I.

g.

'f
'I

  

n 1959

fluctuations in water level. Occasion-
ally you will need to add a little water
to the bottle to offset evaporation loss.

You will also need a thermometer for
your “bureau,” of course. and some
booklets or other material to give you
a deeper insight into the “why” of
weather. Among the many available
we mention only a few.

The United States Weather Bureau
offers an informative set of eight pub-
lications for twenty cents (do not send
stamps): Cloud Forms, Explanation of
the Weather Map, Weather Forecasting,
Weather Reporting and Forecasting,
The Weather Bureau, Fighting CohI
Weather with the Fruit and V egetabIe
Men, The How and W hy of Weather
Knowfedge, plus a sample copy of the
Washington Daily Weather Map.

Two good pamphlets: Weather, Boy
Scouts of America (25 cents) and
Weather Handbook by Lou Williams,
Girl Scouts of the U.S.A. (25 cents).

There are also many good books on
the subject.

Boat Safety

Check your boats carefully. The Out-
board Boating Club of America makes
these recommendations:

Carrying capacity of boats—try these
mathematics on yours. Here is how to
compute it: Length x maximum width,
x maximum depth, at 0.6 -2— by 12, x
150 (except where the beam measure-
ments are 48”, use 19” as maximum
depth; 57” or over, use 22” as maxi-
mum depth).

Hypothetical measurements:

(12’ x 3.5’ x 1.5’ x 0.6’)

12 150 =

472.5 lbs
the safe carrying capacity of this boat.

 

Safe Capacity of Boats:

.1. Minimum freeboard (side height
above water line when loaded) less than
14-" is dangerous.

2. A 13’ boat with beam (width) of
36” is safe for only one person, where-
as a 12-footcr with a beam of 42" will
carry two.

3. Three people will require a boat
13' to 14' long, with a beam of 46" to
48”. Four passengers will need a 14-
to lG-footer, with a beam of 50" to 51"
and a freehoard of 16”.

4. Balance your load, always carry
life preservers.

A world Still New

Bringing the. out-of-doors to pre-
school children . . . gives them oppor-
tunities to feed their insatiable appetites
for discovery. . . . Sand running through
fingers for the first time brings adven-
ture in a world still new to a little child.
Cool, fresh grass makes him want to run
on it, or feel it, or put some of it in his
basket. Water has a lovely sound when
dipped and poured. lilowers are to pick,
and wind may be to shout to. These

things can build joy into a child's very

 

being. and a sense that life is rich and
full.

A child p!ants a seed and helps it
grow. lle observes the fascinating ways
of little creatures and helps to give them
food and care. The deep-down feeling
of goodness, beauty, and usefulness of
the world’s treasures has to be tasted
extensively if any such real awareness
is to come—MARY E. Vs:aner no
EDWARD L. Scumcamx in Interna-
tional Journal of Religious Education,

Novern her, I 95(.

Program Aides

Use program aides in day camp-
ing. The Camp Fire Girls have a sys-
tem, through their Horizon Club,
which successfully prepares girls for
this interesting avenue of service in
their day camps. Why not do the same
in your recreation center? Set up a
club of your teens, or even preteens. for
training as day-camp helpers (never
counselors, for they are not ready for
that degree of responsibility). They
will find it an experience rich in learn-
ing. They can be efliciently used, with
adult supervision. in many spots, such
as flag-raising ceremonies. singing, or-
dering and delivering milk to groups,
telling stories to younger campers, and
generally being “extra hands." 31'

91

IMPRESSIONS 1

OF

RECREATION '

.........AMERICA............PartIf

EADERSIIIP. Of the very many recreationists I had the
’ Lprivilege of meeting in America, not many were spec-

ially trained in recreation. Yet, in respect to compe-
tence, devotion, and enthusiasm, I cannot imagine many pro-
fessions being as fortunate in attracting personalities of such
outstanding quality. I am convinced the reason for this is
not high salaries because, comparatively speaking, recrea-
tion is still at the stage where it attracts the person blessed
and imbued with the spirit of the missionary. Education
went through the same stage until it became just another
profession forced to compete for manpower on purely “husi-
ness” terms. As it is, there is a pressing shortage of trained
recreation workers in America, and we can only hope that,
before recreation loses its missionary appeal, it will be made
sufficiently attractive to draw the best. The demands are
such that only the best is good enough. There are already
definite signs of frustration, and turnover among recreation
workers is relatively high. Recreation cannot afford to be

.the profession without a future.

As for the professional training of recreation workers,
America is to be envied for the rapidly increasing number
of universities offering specialized training. The time factor
made it well-nigh impossible for me to get a reliable im-
pression of the nature of the training generally provided.
Subject to this limitation, it might be of interest to know
what the reactions are of someone who has had to rely
mainly on self-teaching and literature for his knowledge of
recreation. In South Africa, as a rule, it still does not really
matter whether we call what we do recreation, group work,
or leisure-time activities. In one’s quest for knowledge, liter-
.ature in all these spheres is utilized. Therefore, it was some-

MR. OPPERMAN, senior professional o§icer and organizer
of physical education and recreation, Johannesburg, South
Africa, visited the U. S. on the Community Recreation Ex-
change Project in I 956, and attended the International Rec-
reation Congress, both sponsored by the NRA.

92

what difficult to appreciate why, in America, recreation anrl
social group work, in regard to training and practical apl
plication, stand so far apart.

One gets the feeling that social group work is relegated
to the domain of the socially maladjusted. Recreation alsq
appears to be overemphasizing the aspects of recreation ad-
ministration, facilities, and activities to the neglect of th
necessary knowledge of the persons or personalities forl
whom these services are intended. This is an impression!
and the impression of someone who cannot claim to speak
with authority, but, if true, it is a real pity. If it is not al-
ready the case it must inevitably lead to the situation where
the social group worker will know all there is to know abouj
people and personalities, but will lack activity skills an
administrative training, while the recreationist will be arl
administration 'and activity specialist without the means of
gauging the needs of people and without the techniques to
lead them effectively. The two directions are so obviously
complementary that they must be brought together.

The recreationist is essentially a leader, and this means]
so much more than just being a good administrator, planner;
and skillful activity provider. I have found certain aspects!
of social psychology, especially. the emerging principles 0,
group dynamics, not only fascinating, but perhaps the mos
promising and hopeful of all approaches to this most obscur
and intangiblc concept of lcadership.

People like Kurt Lewin, T. Gordon, H. H. Jennings, R
Lippitt and R. K. White, Fritz Redl, F. H. Sanford, H. A
Thelen, Charles Hendry, and others have provided us witl'l
such a wealth of valuable knowledge on group leadershi
techniques and effective group functioning that we, as rec
reationists, should lose no time in making it our own. Fo
some years now I have had the feeling that the Researc
Center for Group Dynamics at Ann Arbor, Michigan, migh
have some of the answers of how to work effectively wit
groups. I have discovered that commerce and industry hav

RECREATIO.

 

Rudolf M. J. Opperntan

been spending vast amounts of money on research (through
the center) to discover new techniques for, and better in-
sight into, the aspects of teamwork, the achievement of
group goals, happier and healthier relationships between
people, and effective communication. The center reported
it had not, as yet, received a single request for assistance
from anyone concerned with recreation.

Another important aspect, of which I did not see as much
as I had hoped, was a conscious awareness of the different
needs and interests of participants, particularly with regard
to different age levels, and deliberate adaptation of program
in accordance with the framework thus provided. l am not
in a position to generalize about this, but many a time it was
obvious that participants were adapted to the program in-
stead of the other way round. It may be coincidence, but in
no single instance was it explained to me what were the
particular needs, problems, and interests at a given age level
or with a particular group and how the program was de-
signed to meet them. Failure in this respect I found to be
particularly evident in providing for the adolescent. We just
do not seem to be too successful in bringing recreation into
line with what is needed and desired at this level. Because of
this problem of activity-centered programing versus pro-
graming for variable needs and interests, I was hoping to see
how American recreation was actively utilizing the knowl-
edge and guiding lines emanating from the studies of child
development. I was also very keenly on the lookout to see
how much recreation had gained from the work of Lawrence
K. Frank, Margaret Mead, Caroline B. Zachry, S. R. Slavson,
and Paul Landis in dealing with the adolescent.

Nothing is further from my intention than to suggest that
recreation leadership in America is not aware of this knowl-
edge, but it was my experience that it did not serve as a
living force in leadership training, planning, and action. I
have wondered whether this can be explained against the
background of the underlying motivation: not to attach
much wider significance to recreation than what the partici-
pant is interested in deriving from it? If this is so of course,
the recreationist becomes a mere provider in cafeteria style.
If, however, he is to be a leader, then it becomes imperative
to explore and to utilize available knowledge about the skills
of leadership. And, as a leader of people, it becomes neces-

Comments of a visitor to this country Continued.
He says, “It may be of interest to see how a visitor
can interpret 0r misinterpret his observations."

sary to know as much as possible about the nature, needs,
problems, and interests of his material.

Recreation, as a growing field, can gain much from the
related spheres of knowledge. A high priority should be
given to achieving the closest liaison.

There is still another facet about which leadership should
concern itself. If we admit that the capacity of our facilities
is not always the major limiting factor, as far as participa-
tion is concerned, if we believe that every normal person
is capable of, and in need of satisfactory recreation experi-
ence, then we have a long way to go before we can be satis-
fied that we are, indeed, providing services of the nature and
in a manner able to stimulate and maintain the interest of
the greater majority of people.

Merely to use lists of activities upon which participants
indicate their preferences is certainly not the answer be-

- cause, unless a prospective participant has more than a no-

tion of what is involved, he is not in a position to make a
reliable decision. This may all sound like so much ballyhoo,
but, somehow, it is to me a sphere in which more research
seems to be highly necessary. We know it is wrong to pro-
vide activities in terms of the leader’s own preferences and
prejudices and we cannot entirely depend on being led by
the “blind.” Most participants’ knowledge and experience
of recreation activities are very limited, and, because of in-
born skepticism and apathy towards the unfamiliar, the
practice of giving people what they want must inevitably
tend to withhold from them the enrichment and the adven-
turc of wider recreation experience. There must be ways
and means, also, for the recreationist to ascertain what the
potential interests, capacities, and dispositions of people are
and, without having to resort to compulsion, there must be
more effective means than checklists to do something about
such potential interests.

This discussion on leadership will be incomplete without
mention of the very outstanding services rendered by the
Recreation Personnel Service of the National Recreation
Association. This department and its National Advisory
Committee have not only been the major instrument in ini-
tiating and extending facilities for training, but they are an
indefatigable force at every conceivable Opportunity, for
higher standards and resources of recreation leadership. 4?:

 

PHYSICAL FITNESS

Automobiles. elevators, escalators, washing machines, vacuum cleaners. and a
host of other products of the machine age have eliminated from modern life much
of the physical activity that was once a normal part of daily living. They offer
both advantages and disadvantages. They can make us a lazy. sedentary people or
they can free us to replace irksome physical labor with enjoyable physical recrea-
tion. Time spent at the tennis court. golf links, beach, or gym is time profitably
ttSC(l.—TIIURMAN B. RICE, Ml). and FRED V. l—lt-ttN, l’nJ).

 

MARCH 1959

93

 

HERE IS A growing interest in camping for the physically

handicapped. Wherever a well-organized camping pro-
gram for the handicapped has been carried on, it has effec-
tively demonstrated that camping experience provides a
valuable, almost necessary, connplcmcnt to a medical re-
habilitation program. In the relaxed, informal atmosphere
of a camp, handicapped individuals often make phenomcnal
progress in their physical development, together with im-
provement in their attitude toward disability—an essential
counterpart in effective rehabilitation. For that rcason, more
and more states are developing ncw camp facilities for the
handicapped. One state that has built such a camp is Minne-
sota; there the Socicty for Crippled Children and Adults

recently completed Camp Courage, a new, modern facility.

The Problems and the Architect

Developing a camp for physically disabled children is an
architcctural problem requiring design of maximum nor-
mality yct suitable for special needs. Compronnises with
accepted camping philosophy, technique, and procedure
should be made only where rcquirements for campcrs’ hand-
icaps make them imperative. The problem facing the archi-
tect is how to integrate the special physical, recreation, and
therapeutic requirements of a camp for physically handi-
capped children into a scheme that will, nevertheless, appear
natural, simple, and direct, and will provide a more than
closer concentration of units (because of lack of mobility
of many of the campers), without appearing cluttcred or
confining.

Site Selection

A thorough study of what constitutes a proper site for
a special camp should be made before going into detailed

MR. SCHOENBOHM is executive director of the Minnesota So-
ciety for Crippled Children and Adults, lnc. MR. HOVIK,
who passed away before publication of this article, was a stat?
member of the architectural firm of Ellerbe and Company,
St. Paul, Minnesota.

94

This requires design similar to that of
a regular camp, but with adaptations
for special groups.

Building

Camp Facilities
for the
Handicapped

\V. B. Selmenbollm and Lawrence Hovik

planning of the camp itself. It is important the architect
be engaged prior to this decision that he may help in site
sclection and that his experience and skill be utilized effec-
tivcly in devcl0ping building plans conforming to and ex-
ploiting to the maximum thc potentials of the prospective
site. All too frequently architectural planning has had to
conform to an inadequate sitc.

Critcria should be established in advance so the site may
be chosen on the basis of plan rather than pressure. The fol-
lowing requirements were set up for the Camp Courage site,
that:

It be located on a good Spring-fed lake.

It have plcnty of sandy beach area.

The bcach have a gradual slope.

The lake should not “green” in early fall.

0 It be within fifty miles of the Twin Cities for medical,
administration, and transportation reasons.

It contain twenty-five acres or more of ground.

The ground not slope too abruptly.

The area be wooded and have bird and wildlife.

It be fairly isolated and away from resorts, ta'verns,
nightclubs, main thoroughfares, and so on.

DeSpite the fact that Minnesota is the land of ten thou-
sand lakes, the camp committee immediately recognized that
the job of finding the “perfect site” was most difficult, if
not impossible. After surveying approximately seventy sites
in various parts of the state, a forty-acre site, located on
Cedar Lake, between Annandale and Maple Lake, was se-
lected. lt met all the criteria save one, it being more uneven
than desircd. However, the committee wisely concluded
that, with modern earth-moving machinery, this did not pre-
sent too big a problem and the many interesting aspects of
the preperty certainly offset its limitations. The forty acres,
incidentally, included thirty-eight hundred feet of shoreline
so there was ample all-round protection from encroachment.

Another location where a swimming pool would be neces-
sary was also considered; but in Minnesota, lake sites are

RECREATION

II

still quite readily available and the expense of building and
maintaining a pool can be eliminalcd; also numerous other
water activities, such as heating, canoeing. fishing, nature
study, and sailing, are possible on a lake. llowever, in areas
where lake frontage is not readily available, good camping
programs can be developed without lake frontage through
construction of a swimming pool. A pool has one advantage
over a lake; namely, water temperature can be regulated,
allowing for maximum use.

Determining the Program

The camp program must be decided upon concurrently
with the initial architectural planning. An outline should
be drafted in detail, to aid and guidc action regarding loca-
tion, site selection, building function requirements, financ-
ing, construction, programing and campers’-use schedule.
The organization sponsoring the camp will find it almost
mandatory to record in written form their planned program
for camp operation. Such a program report should embody
everything from the philosophy of camping for the specific
group to detailed day-by-day operating schedules expressed
in narrative text, statistics, diagrams, drawings, and photo-
graphs. Minimum standards, evaluations, and carefully stud-
ied conclusions should be included. This is essential to pro-
vide the architect with proper orientation and direction in
planning for facilities that best meet the special problems.
When and if, in the course of tlic program, it is found neces-
sary to deviate from previously established principles or
planning, such changes need not be made piecemeal, but can
be considered within the framework of the whole program.

It is important to establish in the initial program the type
of camp to be planned—~whether it is primarily recreational,
therapeutic, or a combination of both. Many questions must
be answered, such as:

What type of group, or groups will be servedt-pbysically

handicapped or combination of types?

Approximately how many may be in wheelchairs per pe-

riod, if any?

How many may be ambulatory in varying degrees?

What are the special conditions (crutches, canes, braces,

walkers) ?

What are the age limits and age-group distributions?

Will blind children be admitted? If so, how many per

period?

As a derivative of thc above, questions can be answered.
such as:

How many campers per period?

How many slaff members, counselors, housekeeping help,

and so on are required?

What are the maximum housing and fecding require-

ments that will be necessary pcr camping period?

To assess the nced in the area the camp will serve is the
major quantilative guide, since the total capacity of the camp
must, if possible, be adequate for the estimated number of
qualified applicants. In the vicinity of large metropolitan
urban areas, there is evidence that the need will always ex-
ceed the facilities that can be made available. as an initial
Iandard, it is suggested that such special (amps do not ex-

ilmcn 195‘)

 

 

The I‘malllre building is dcsigncd lo nld in opcldng new worlds
of miraclcs and nrcas of discovery for handicapped children.

 

Collages, will! the dining hall in the center, cach house sixlecn
clnldrcn, four counsclors, have. ramped, cxlra-wlde doorways.

The lake forms a backdrop for lhc outdoor chapcI-amphlthca-
lcr and providcs bcauliful setting for ('nterlainmcm and In-
spirational galhcrings. Below, aerial view of Camp Conraxc.
Gronpcd buildings facilitalc lraflic flow, climinale dislanccs.

l__—_"F' 1-

o I..-
I.

 

ceed a capacity of one hundred children.

Since Minnesota. had operated a camping program for
crippled children and adults since 1938 and had adapted
several existing facilities for temporary use, the program
outline was not difficult to prepare. It had been established
how many campers applied each summer, how many had to
be turned down each year because of lack of facilities, and
how many others would be interested if a modern camp with
more advantages were made available. From this informa-
tion it was concluded that a facility to provide for 450-500
campers each summer, with additional special weekend ont-
ings for parents and other handicapped groups, would fill
a big part of the state need. Thus, Minnesota’s facilities were
planned to care for ninety-six youngsters per period, since
this happened to be the number most easily divisible by the
number of cottages which were developed—each cottage
housing sixteen campers and four counselors. The camp
thus has a maximum capacity of 480 per season.

Architectural Considerations

Once the problem of the proper site has been disposed of.
architectural planning can proceed in earnest. The first step
should be a topographical survey of the terrain so the proh-
lems of drainage, sewage disposal. runoff, and so on can be
properly handled. This should immediately be followed by
an over-all layout of the buildings planned for the initial
camp program and those needed for the future. This will
allow for efficient placement of all buildings and for the ex-
pansion so often required in the future. In addition. mo-
bility and traffic flow, so extremely important in working
with the handicapped, can be assessed in advance and em-
bodied in the over-all planning and placement.

Since all types of physically handicapped children and
adults, including the visually handicapped and blind, were
to be admitted to the Minnesota eamp, it was planned with-
out stcps and unnecessary barriers and hazards. The cot-
tages, built in the form of a Maltese cross, were grouped
around the dining, recreation, health-and-therapy, nature.
and arts-and-crafts buildings. They include two sections for
eight campers each, a counselor section. and inside toilet
facilities. The campers‘ quarters are again subdivided into
units of four by half-way partitions to give more privacy
and facilitate grouping of campers according to interests.
Entrances to the cottages are ramped and doorways are
three-and-a-half feet wide, permitting easy entrance by
wheelchairs and walkers.

Additional special features are low sliding windows—
eaSy and safe to operate-—giving the campers a view of the
lake even from wheelchairs, and high vaulted roofs to give
an air of freedom and expansion to the campers as well as
improved ventilation. The many special features in the bath-
room include special wheeI-in showers, low lavatories and
mirrors, and grip bars in the showers and around the toilets.

The dining hall-recreation center, in the middle of the
camp, was built on two levels, taking advantage of the na-
tural contour of the land and permitting easy access from
the cottages as well as from the beach area; since the cot-
tages are on the same level as the dining hall, and the beach

06

on the same level as the recreation center, located on the
lower level of this building. An inside ramp with a ten-
degree slope provides easy access for both campers and staff.
In inclement weather, an entire day’s activities can focus
in this large central building.

The dining hall, on the upper level, has a capacity of 160
persons. With a giant fireplace on the north wall and an-
abundance of glass on the other three sides, it provides al
most comfortable and cheerful rendezvous in all kinds of
weather. The recreation area below contains space for all
leisure-time games, movies, evening programs, such as tal-
ent shows, stunt nights, carnivals, and the many other erea-
tivc program activities so important in a camping program.
Game areas include Ping-pong, shuffleboard fhoth table
and floor), billiards, and relaxation corners where every-
thing from checkers to tournament chess can be carried on.

To the left of the lower area, immediately in front of thisl
building, is the nature building, an octagonal building with
a blue flexiglass skylight. In this are the aquarium, and the
various collections of wood, rocks and minerals, huttcrfliesl
flowers, and bird and animal specimens. This building, to]
gethcr with the arts-and-crafts building, a hexagonal, twol
level building, located immediately to the rear of the dining
hall, is used for activities. In working with the physically"
handicapped, exposure to nature and arts and crafts is ar‘
essehtial experience through which interests, hobbies, anti
worthwhile careers can be developed. This building. buill
into a hillside, looks almost as if it had grown there. The]
second floor, which also opens to the ground level, contain!
quarters for the professional staff.

   
 
 
   
   
   
 
   
  
   
 
   
   
 
   

Since no program is ever better than its leadership, ade
quate facilities for key staff, including married staff, are im
pcrative. Three cottages for staff members with families
such as the director, doctor, and caretaker, have been buil
at strategic locations overlooking the camp. These furthe
improve and increase the chances of obtaining the qualit,
and continuity of leadership and supervision so essentia
to a good camping program.

As Minnesota’s camping program for the physically hand
icappcd consists of five two-week sessions and emphasize
both recreation and therapy, a separate health-and-therap
building was constructed, to provide space for physical
speech, and occupational therapy; nurse’s quarters; doc

tor’s examining room; and two four-bed sick bays.

The final unit, which rounds off the camping facilities
is an outdoor amphitheater located in a natural birch bow
at the north end of the building area. This provides a beauti
ful outdoor environment for entertainment, song fests, firc
side gatherings, and religious worship. It is open on tw
sides and has a plate-glass back so a view of the lake is pos
sible from all directions. Named after opera star Marjori
Lawrence, whose life story describing her courageous battl
against a disabling handicap is so beautifully told in he
book Interrupted Melody, this amphitheater is symbolic o
the courage and strength that handicapped children deriv
from attendance at Camp Couragemand the assistanc
sound architectural planning gives in achieving the aims an
objectives of a camping program for the handicapped.

RECREATI

3’51
W : ANNIVERSARY

IIIIIEIIIIIIIIIIIIIISIIII:L _....:...._._ _
' LOUISVILLE sLIIIIeEII BATS

 

 

"5 GENUINE AUTOGRAPHED LOUISVILLE SLUGGER—POWERIZED. Natural ash white finish. Turned from choice. open-eir-seasoned white esh.
Genuine autographed models of the twenty sluggers listed below comprise the No. I25 line. An assortment of not fewer than six: different models is

guaranteed to each certon of one dozen. Packed 4.13". 5‘34". and 1’35" bets In each certOn. Shipping weight. 27 pounds Each $4.50
MODELS:

Henry Aaron Orlando Cepeda AI Kaline Ed Mathews Ra Sievers

RlchIe Ashburn Bob Cery Ted Kluszewskl GiI McDougold Du e SnIder

Ernle anks Nelson Fox Harvey Kuenn PeeWee Reese Frank Thomas

Yogi Berra Jackle Jensen Mickey Mantle Jackle Rablnson Ted Wllllams

I153 SPECIAL AUTOGRAPHED LOUISVILLE swoon—rowsmzm. INot Illustrated). Quality and mm. identical to No. I25 above. but turned to
slightly smaller dimensions for the particular reguirements of High School. Prep School. Babe Ruth League. Pony League. and other teen-ege players.
Listed below are the autographed models In the I2SS group. An assortment of not fewer then silt different models Is guarenteed to eech carton of one

dozen. Packed 4/32". 5/33". and 3/34" bats in each carton. Shipping weight. 26 pounds Each $4.50
MODELS:

Henry Aaron Jackle Jensen Mickey Mantle Roz SIevers

Richie Ashburn AI Kaline Ed Mathews Du e Snlder

Yogi Berra Harvey Kuenn Jackie Robinson Ted Williams

" ASH FUNGO. GENUINE LOUISVILLE SLUGGER—POWERIZED. (Not Illustrated). Quality and finish identical to No. I25 above. Each certon of
one dozen contains three (34") infield and nine (37" and 38") outfield fungoes. Shipping weight. 20 pounds Each $4.50

 

I15 EBONY FINISH—GENUINE AUTOGRAPHED LOUISVILLE SLUGGER—POWERIZED. Turned from choice. open-eir-seasoned timber. Rich ebony
finish with gold branding. Six different models ere guaranteed to each carton of one dozen. Packed 4/33". 5.14". and 3335" bats in eech carton. Shippin
weight. 27 pounds . . Ea". 34.5

is. * ' ** ' ' ‘  '° amalgam "‘

____.e‘ A 7 77 7 . A' "--..__._1u:£utnms _

 
  
    

is. GRAND SLAM—Natural white finish. Turned from select northern white ash timber. Patterned after the original models of the femous sluggers
whose names the bear. Six: different models guaranteed to each carton of one dozen. Lengths 4.13". 5/34". and 3/35" bets in eech carton. Shippin
weight. 26 paun s .................................................................... .. .  Each $3.6

“.5 SPECIAL GRAND SLAM—(Not Illustrated). Quality and finish identical to No. ISO abou. but turned to slightly smaller dimensions for the per-
ticuIer requirements of High School. Prep School. Babe Ruth League. Fonz .Leogue. end other teen-age pleyers. Six different models guerenteed to
each certon of one dozen. Lengths 4/32". 5/33". and 3/34" bats in certon. hipping weight. 24 pounds Each $3.60

_ '
‘ _ ‘ _ r T —I-|-I'l- —-' "Km ___
,e  _ - — '—-' m £539.1th .—._
r 7 ' l I. - ‘ ' i— h .— l
a e, e  a h - , ._ , If f  H a..- __ - semen

"Ts SPECIAL POWER DRIVE. Naturel white finish. Turned from fine white esh. Petterned after the original models of the famous sluggers whose
nemes they bear. but turned to slightly smaller s ecifications for the particular requirements of High School. Prep School. Babe Ruth League. Pany League.
end other teen-ege pleyers. Six ifferent mode s guerenteed to eech carton of one dozen. Assorted Iengths 32" to 34": shipping weight. 24 pounds.

Each $3.10
Data for PONY LEAGUE Bat. tor BAE RUTH LEAOUE
Numbers 125$. 150$. 1405. and 1305 (also the Junior and Any baseball bat in the Loansville Slugger line not longer than
Little League numbers) are approved for PONY LEAGUE 34" may be used in BABE RUTH LEAGUE play. However. the
play. These numbers are particularly suitable for players of "specials" (125$. 150$. 1405. and 1305) are particularly suit-
i this age group. able for players of this age grOup.

I HILLERICH A BRADSBY COMPANY. INC.. LOUISVILLE. KENTUCKY
Also Makers of Grand Slam Golf Clubs
I Copyright I959

LOUISVILLE SLUGGER BASEBALL BATS

‘—.— "—"-I_

are... '

HARVEY lI-IEN N MODEL

    

 

“w SAFE HIT. Finished in natural ash white and supplied in an assortment of famous sluggers' models in each carton of one dozen. Assorted lengths
  Each $2.70

from 32" to 35": shipping weight. 26 pounds .  ..   . . .   . 

 

"3 BIG LEAGUER. Black finish with white tape grip. An assortment of famous sluggers' models in each carton of one dozen. Lengths range from 32"
to 35": shipping weight. 26 pounds .. .      ..   Each 52.30

“I are» MODEL

 

1108 SPECIAL SAFE HIT Turned from ash w' ' ° °

. . Ith rIch dark maroon fInIsh. Patterned after th ' °
behar. but turned to slightly smaller specifications for the particular reQuirements of ngh szhgoII?'$arle:%iehlgoEf Bfggefalg‘ghs Lil-293:” P'hzoseLnames "my
ot er teen-age players. 5:: different models guaranteed to the carton of one dozen. assorted lengths 32" to 34‘“ shipping weightg24'pounds Egghe'SZagg

 

3 LEADER. Light brown finish. Assorted famous sluggers' models. Assorted lengths. from 32" to 35": shipping weight. 26 pounds...,........ Each $1.30

LITTLE LEAGUE

Performance makes them Famous

BATS

 

L.— _._..----_ _

ule GENUINE AUTOGRAPHED LITTLE LEAGUE LOUISVILLE SLUGGER. Large-size iunior bat. Turned from select. apen-air-seasoned white ash and
hickory. Each carton of one dozen contains approximately half with natural white finish and half with antique finish. Autographs of Henry Aaron. YogI

Berra. Jackle Jensen. Mlckey MantIe. Duke Snlder. and Ted Williams. Packed 3 29“. 4:30". 3.‘3I". and 2/32" bats in each carton. Shipping weight.
2| pounds   . . . .. . .   .-.. Each $3.40

 

T's  ‘ . - ' . ' a ' I “It” I135“:
;' .  m .-  .....

   

IISBB GENUINE AUTOGRAPHED LITTLE LEAGUE LOUIsVILLE SLUGGER—EBONY FINISH. Large—size iunior bat. Turned from select oopen-air-seasoned
timber. Imprinted white tape grip. Autographs of Henry Aaron. Yogl Berra. Jackle Jensen. Mickey Mantle. Duke Snlder. and Ted WIIIIOITIES. 
..   ..  .. ac .

3 ‘29". 4,--’30". 3.-"3I". and 2-32" bats in each carton. Shipping weight. 2| pounds

 

1sz GENUINE AUTOGRAPHED LITTLE LEAGUE LOUISVILLE SLUGGER. Medium-size iunior ba_t. Turned from select open~air—seasoned ash. Approxoi-
mater half of the I25J bats have natural finish as shown above: the other half have an ebony finIsh. Autographs of Henry Aaron. Yogl Berra. JackIe

Jensen. Mickey Mantle. Duke SnIder. and Ted Williams. Lengths 3.29". 4,30". 3/3l". and 2.32". Shipping weight I? pounds .  Each $2.60

 

"- LITTLE LEAGUE "It's a LoulsvfIIe." Large-size iunior bat with attractive ebony finish and gold branding. Each bat contains the name of one

of these famous hitters: Henry Aaron. Yogi Berra. Jackie Jensen. Mlckey Mantle. Duke Snider. and Ted Williams. Lengths 29" to 32". Shipping weight.
I? pounds      . Each $2.20

   

Light brown finish. Each bat branded with name of one of these famous hitters: Henry Aaron. Yogi

J2 LITTLE LEAGUE. L -s' ' 'o bat.
arge In [um r Lengths 29" to 32". Shipping weight. I9 pounds . . Each $1.80

Berra. Jackie Jensen. Mickey Mantle. Duke Snider. and Ted Willian'Is.

SOFTBALL

 8 LU G G ‘R
. - BATS

HdOrmance makes them Famoua

 

 

IISY LOUISVILLE SLUGGER OFFICIAL SOFTBALL BAT—MODEL 12. For the consistent hitter. a smoll-berreled bat with greduel fapor to smell rIp.
Antique finish. Finest selection of second-growth esh end.-*’or hickory. One dozen to carton. 6.333" end 6534"; shipping woiqht. 22 pounds Each 5 ,‘o

 

"5w LOUISVILLE SLUGGER OFFICIAL SOFTBALL BAT. Assortment of populer models packed in carton of One dozen. Turned from select esh end ‘or
hlckory. end POVerized. Finished in natural ash-whlte. Lengths. 6/33" and 6334": shipping weight. 22 pounds Each $3.25

 

1253 LOUISVILLE SLUGGER "METEOR" OFFICIAL SOFTBALL BAT. A splendid essonfment of models thef will meet requirements of the verious types
of hitters. Red maroon finish. Turned from select esh and/or hickory. and POwerized. One dozen in certon. 6.13" end 6334": shipping weight.£22 I.posui-Ildzs‘j’
oc .

 

1150 LOUISVILLE SLUGGER OFFICIAL SOFTBALL BAT—MODEL B. "Fm-swing" model for hitting fast pitching. Boftle-sheped large berrel that
tapers quickly to small grip. Natural white finish. Turned from select esh and.’or hickory. and POwerized. One dozen to certOn. afiil” end s-'32"- ship-

ping weight. 23 pounds EocII $3.25

 

25!! LOUISVILLE SLUGGER "ROCKET" SOFTBALL BAT—ASSORTED OFFICIAL MODELS. A splendid Variety of models—answers full teem requirements.

 

Ebony finish. Turned from select ash and/or hickory. One dozen in carton. 6/33“ and 6/34"; shipping weight. 22 pounds Eoch $3.2S
. ,7 .' fl'  _ ' ' — __ :7—
III MS -,-

115T LOUISVILLE SLUCCEII OFFICIAL SOFTBALL BAT—MODEL s. For heavy hitters—a bottle-shaped model with Iaroqe berrel. tepering quickly to e
medium grip. Netural white finish. Turned from select ash and POwerized. One dozen to cartOn. 6/33" end 6534“; shipping welght. 23 pounds Each $3.25

 

“no LOUISVILLE SLUGGER OFFICIAL SOFTBALL BAT—MODEL B. "Fest-Swing" model for hitting fest pitching. Bottle-shepod—lerge .barrel .thet
qzuickly tapers to smell handle. Ebony finish. Turned from select esh and/or hickory and POwerized. Eech certon. a,-’3I" and s 32”. Shipplé'lq hwgaggté
2 pounds .  .   .. . oc .

 

"5L LOUISVILLE SLUGGER OFFICIAL SOFTBALL BAT—MODEL 1. Far girl hitters. A small-berreled bet with greduel teper to e smalI grip. Netural
white finish esh and Powerized. One dozen in certon. 33" Iengths. Shipping weight. I! pounds Each $3.25

 

"‘5 LOUISVILLE SLUGGER OFFICIAL SOFTBALL IAT. Supplied In assOrted softbell models. Finished in brOwn antique and POwerized. Turned frOm
high-Gut"?! “h end/or hicIIOry. One dozen to certon. 3|" and 32” lengths; shipping weight. ll pounds Eoch S2.I5

LOUISVILLE SLUGGER

Performance makes them Famous

SOFTBALL
BATS

 

 

102 LOUISVILLE swoon OFFICIAL SOFTBALL BAT. Assorted popular solloall models of firsi qualify ash and hickory. on Tempered and finished
in saddle brown. Packed one dozen Io carfon. 6/33" and 6/34": shlpping weight. 23  _-,__..,,__.__,,._,_Each $2.35

 

woo LOUISVILLE SLUGGER "FAST-SWING" OFFICIAL SOFTBALL MODEL. Turned from high qualify ash and. or hickory and finished in medium brown.
One dozen in carfon. 6.-’3|" and 6-32"; shipping weight 23 pounds .. .. . ..   .......... Eoch $2.B5

 
  

  

OFFICIAL

Jymsvm SLUGGER

L .Lsa-LoAJ'|‘aL_1.‘—‘-E—__._

   

ME
~ My“

    
  

100W LOUISVILLE swoon OFFICIAL SOFTBALL BAT. Assorfed popular sollball models. Turned from high quality ash and.or hickory. Naloral while
finish and Oil Tempered. One dozen in carion. 6/33" and 6334": shipping weighl. 22 pounds  ..  ..   ...-  ..  .-...Each 52.B5

 

5‘ "H's o Louisville" OFFICIAL SOFTBALL BAT. Assorfed models Iurned from ash and hickory. Brown finish and black zapon grip. One dozen in

carfon. 6‘33" and 6.-‘34"; shipping weighf. 23 pounds  .  ..  ..  _ _   Each $2.20
.. r
r L Ln,- \ I x |

 

{'40 "If's o Louisville" OFFICIAL SOFTBALL BAT—BorIle-shaped "FasI Swing" model. Made of ash and hickory, wifh ebony brown finish. One dozen
II'I carIon. 6’3I" and 6.‘32"; shipping weighf. 23 pounds  .   ...--   -..- .. Each $2.20

-'--I"I" :‘T—IFES.

“s H 33

\ Dol‘e-ou 1“

 

5"- "If’s 0 Louisville" OFFICIAL GIRLS’ MODEL. Natural white finish ash wifh blue zapon grip. One dozen in carton. 33" length; shipping weight,
IB pounds _ ,. .  ..  .     ..   . . Each $2.20

 

52" OFFICIAL SOFTBALL BAT. Turned from ash and/or hickory and finished in ebony. One dozen assorIed models Io carfonI 33" and 34" lengths:
shipping weighi, 23 pounds . . . . . .. ., . .. .      ..  ..      ...Eoch SLBO

52 OFFICIAL SOFTBALL BAT. Naiural finish ash. One dozen assorted models in carion, 33" and 34" Iengfhs: shipping weight, 22 pounds .Eoch $1.0

 

 

5'" OFFICIAL SOFTBALL BAT. Turned from ash and.‘or hickory wifh maroon finish and gray zapon grip. Assorfed models. One dozen Io carfon. 33"
and 34" lengihs; shipping weigh? 22 pounds...w  ....._...............-......_.-.-........... c............. m”...  .  .. . .  .   Each $1.70

50 OFFICIAL SOFTBALL BAT. Brown finish. One dozen assorfed models Io carfon. 33" and 34" Iengfhs; shipping weight 22 pounds .. ..Eoch 51.30

.9165Waa'o 5W

 

  
  
  
  
    
    
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
   
 
   
 
  
  
  
  
   
 
 
   
   
   
   
 
 

Camping
Services
for
Families

An Association

SOME three years ago the Department
of Municipal Recreation and Adult
Education of the Milwaukee, Wiscon-
sin, Public Schools conducted a survey
to determine how much interest there
might he in a family camping associa-
tion. to be conducted by the depart-
ment. Six families responded and be«
gan meeting in the fall of 1955. By
January, 1956, this number had grown
to sixty families.

The survey indicated that there were
hundred additional families
who might he interested in such a pro-
gram. Since that time. the association
has grown to about thirteen hundred
paid family memberships, and it has
helped hundreds of other families in-
terested in camping and the outdoors.

The basic idea of the association is
to provide, through family resources.
an exchange of ideas and.informatiou
about camping and outdoor living.
Each family has a membership card
and, for one dollar a year, receives the
benefit of membership. including five
bulletins published from October to
May. The bulletins provide an avenue
of exchange for ideas on camping
equipment, camp ideas, camp sites, and
camping techniques. They also serw

several

to publicize a series of family camp-
ing programs conducted through the
winter season.

These programs were so successful
that within one season the group of
families outgrew three buildings. The
first programs were held at a social
center with a seating capacity of three
hundred. Soon largcr quarters were
needed, and meetings were held at an-
other social center accommodating one

wucu 1959

One of the ways in which a recreation
department can encourage family
enjoyment of the ont-of-doors.

thousand. After a series of three pro-
grams there, the association had to
move its meetings to a junior high
school that could accommodate more
than fourteen hundred. Each program
is a family affair. Campers screen tours
on film and slides about good places to
camp. and also comment on the poorer
places throughout the country.

Much of the association's work con-
sists of answering the innumerable re-
quests for information, speakers. films.
resource materials, and so on, coming
into the recreation department offices.
A half dozen committees make a consci-
entious effort to supply answers or ob-
tain the necessary information. To help
with this. the association has a family
information where
books, pamphlets. and maps, covering

camping eentcr
thousands of camp sites all over the
country. are available to everyone. The
supply is constantly replenished by
camper members who have visited ex-
ceptionally good sites and send in re-
ports about their finds.

Information does not stop with the
telephone and the information center
but is extended to television and ra-
dio studios. The Family Camping t s-
sociation recently. in cooperation with
WTB'U-TV. presented an hour-lon g tele-
vised camping jamborce emphasizing
outdoor living. Thirteen different camp
units were shown and various aspects
of family camping presented.

Members of the crmnnittec are in con-
stant dcmaml. Last spriu". family camp-
ing talks and demonstrations stressing
good woodland manners were given to
more than forty groups in the Milwau-
kec area. Institutes were also coudueted
in nearby communities. and the depart-

 

 

ment's association worked with various
voluntary agencies and Western Michi-
gan College and lowa State University
to foster and develop similar programs.

National and state park and forests
are recognizing the. need for providing
an increasing number of family camp
sites. Equipment today is better and
easily available, and in most cases can
be rented until a family is sure “camp-
ing out is the life for them.”
camping,

Family
too, provides a low-cost
lengthy vacation or short weekend
trip, as the case may he. First of all.
however, it is fun for the entire family.
lt provides rich experience in family
living, opportunity to enjoy the out-
doors, and relief from the tensions of
urban living—GEORGE \VILSON, Wis-

consin Recreation Association, October.

1958.

Camping Equipment on Loun

The recreation department in Spar-
tauburg, South Carolina. saw the need
for an adult, family recreation program.
Being located in an area not too far
from the mountains and not too far
from the beaches. the department de-
cided.to instigate the loaning of the
camping equipment to any citizen living
within the community. This equipment
consists of a tent which sleeps four, four
army cots, four air mattresses. one two-
hurncr gas camp stove and one family
size ice chest. There is no charge for the
equipment. but a twentyodollar deposit
must be made upon reserving it. A legal
binding form. to be signed by the re-
sponsihle individual, is given to each
applicant for equipment, along with a
mimeograpbcd bulletin of camping in-
formation. 

 

 
  

   A REPORTER’S NOTEBOOK

 

PEOPLE FRONT AND CENTER

Jersey Election

The thirty-first annual election of of-
ficers for the Public Recreation Associ-
ation of New Jersey'was held January
26, 1959. Elected were: Harold Login,
president, Jersey City; Ralph D. Stern-
adori, first vice-prcsident, Somervil'e;
Jack A. Claes, second vice-president,
Vineland; Richard Pasvolsky, secretary,
Parsipanny; and Carl J. Perina, trea-
surcr, lrvington.

These men arc all recreation super-
intendents in their respective munici-
palities.

Intern Success Story

From time to time, RECREATION has

been happy to record the graduation of
new recreation interns and their ulti-
mate placement. This month we have
more good ncws of thesc dedicated
young recreation peOple. "
0 As of February 16, two girls came
on staff as interns in the Philadelphia
Recreation Department. Theyare Mary-
helen C. Ryan and Jean Marie Snmrall.
hotll with a B. S. from the University of
Illinois.

J
I"
._ I
I1! 

--

09

0 Shown in thc accompanying photo-
graph, with Bob Crawford, Philadel-
phia recreation commissioner, are form-
er interns. They are left to right: John
W. Dawson, now assistant superintend-
ent of recreation in Salem, Oregon;
Betty Van Norman. first woman to com-
plete the intern training course in Phil-
adelpbia, now a supervisor in that city's
recreation department; Mr. Crawford;
John G. Williams, now program direc-
tor in the Decatur, Georgia. recreation
department; Ralph S. Laudenslayer,
now in the recreation department, in
Beverly Hills, California; and Charles
E. Hartsoe, the first person to complete
thc intern course in Philadelphia, now
an administrative analyst therc.

College Quickies

0 New York Univcrsity has awarded
Mortimer H. Morris, assistant professor
of recreation at Oregon State College,
his doctorate in education, with a major
in recreation. He also received NYU’s
Max Sklar Award for professional con-
tribulion and academic proficiency.

0 From Indiana University and Dr.
Garrett Eppley comes a breakdown of
the figures on the number of persons

'1 1.
I

1.?

 

who received rccreation degrees in

1958. As of September, this was the

picture:
B. S. in recreation ................................ .. 11
M. S. ...................................................... .. 23
Director of recreation .......................... .. 10
Doctor of recreation ............................ .. 4
Total .....................................................  48

These peOple represent cighteen

states, Hawaii, Canada, the Philippines,
and Egypt.
0 “. . . sincere appreciation of the 111i-
nois Association of Park Districts to
the University of Illinois and to Profes-
sor Charles K. Brightbill and his staff
for cooperation and assistance givcn in
the past and assured in the future,” was
the gist of a commendation tendered by
the park group to the university’s de- '
partment of recreation and its head.

The University of Illinois has also

established a recreation field service,
designed to assist communities develop
their recreation resources and Oppor-
tunities; strengthen the university’s rec-
reation research efforts, gained through
field eXperience; and then share these
findings with all interested persons.
0 Thc senior class of recreation educa-
tion students of State University Teach-
ers College, at Cortland, Ncw York,
sponsored its sixth annual Field Work
Conference last November. Recreation
professionals representing many differ-
ent phases of recreation attended.

Change in lleadqnarters Staff

After fourteen years as administra-
tive assistant to Charlcs Reed, director
of the NRA Field Service, Alberta
Jameson has resigned to undertake very
much the same duties for the director
of the Crotched Mountain Foundation.
This is a rehabilitation center for child-
ren and handicapped persons set in the
beautiful mountains of Greenfield, New
Hampshirc. Mrs. Jameson is now only
a few miles away from her son, grand-
children, and sister. Her job at 8 West
Eighth has been ‘ably taken over by Mrs.
Bessie Vershleiser.

As well as having Alberta on staff,
Crotched Mountain also started its first
full-time recreation director, on Febru-
ary 2. She is Patricia Ann Davis, with
her degree in recreation from the Uni-
versity of New Hampshire.

The Lucky 13th

Recreation Promotion and Service,

Pwrncrrrnw

Han, which organizes recreation activi-
tis in Wilmington, Delaware, recently

 [NYE 31H 

-RecreationPromotionLServich!

 

Cllcbratcd its 13th birthday. Shown at
the big celebration. left to right. are Jo-
slph Dayton. president, Levy Count of
tt-w Castle County, Delaware; speaker
Hubert Snyder, superintendent of rcc-
rcatiou in BaltimorcCounty, Maryland;
I. B. Finkclstcin of RPSS; John A. Ba-
iirz, prcsidcnt,Wilmington City Coun-
dl: and Leon Ryan, president. Dela-
vlirc State Park Commission.

1

t- l"lauuing Committee

' Shown below is a picture of the N RA
ibuthern District Advisory Committee

 

1'

1 its meeting in Kingsport, Tennessee,
It December 6, as plans got under
why for the annual five-state district
0 nl'crcnec to take place in Oglcbay

rk, Wheeling, West Virginia, April
I -15. Sealed, left to right, are: Julian
l*alkcr, Fayette County, Kentucky; Ro-
lDrt Kresge, Charleston, West Virginia;
“in Stevens, Raleigh, North Carolina;
I. C. Mcllorris, Kingsport, Tennesscc;
llilliam ll. Luthcr, Danville. Virginia;
Giairman William M. llay, of the Na-
tional Recreation Association, Decatur,
(Borgia; Louis 1". Twardzik, i. 1'ashvillc.
“wales-sec; and Virginia Gregory, Ral-
hh. Standing, left to right. are: John
Fi-nler, lexington, Kentucky; .\lrs.
[lath Bird. Chattanooga,Tcuncssee; and
Eek Spore, Nashville, Tennessee.

   
 

‘ {CH 1959

Park Shorts

0 There has been a growing realization
among park people for the need of an
interpretive program to give the. public
better understanding and enjoyment of
their parks. With this aim in mind, the
\iational Park Service has appointed
C. Kenny Dale as interpretive. special-
ist in its state cooperation branch. \lr.
Dale will work with state and local au-
thorities on a consultation basis. on re-
quest. within the limits of available re-
sources.

0 Visitor use of campgrounds within
the. National Park System during 1958
increased a healthy eleven per cent over
1957, with a total of l-,()6.'i.UUU camper
days reported. Providing new and im-
proved camp sites is one of the long-
range. over-all goals of the ten-year
Mission 60 program, which hopes to in-
crease the. present twelve thousand to
twenty-five thousand.

0 A Washington, D.C. park was named
after Edward J. Kelly. former national

' F

1'
Ir
I

capital parks superintendent, who died
December 8, 1958. Throughout his long
park career, Mr. Kelly sought the im-
provement and dcvcl0pment of park
areas to enhance the dignity and beauty

 

.\.

of the major approaches to the . entral
area of the city. This park is just east
of the State Department building.

'\ Dream Come True

Six miles inland from the I’m tltt
Ocean, in the coastal mountains south
of ban Francisco, is a camp called lloys-
iille. Ten years ago just an idea in the
minds of a few Uptimists, the camp
opened its doors last summer, for the
lirst time, to ninety-four uuderprixe-
leged boys from California‘s Bay area.

Sponsored by thirty-four (lptimist
(Ilub mel'nbers in .‘iauta Clara. ban Ma-
teo, ..\lameda, and Contra Costa Coun-
ties, the camp was built on ninety-eight
acres of tree-studded land. The mess
hall and fully equipped kitchen were
built almost entirely by Optimist labor,
and members also furnished materials,
machinery, and manpmver. Last sum-
mer the boys themselves helped dam the
creek for swimming. Future plans call
for a swimming pool and year-round
cottages whcrc hoys will live with foster
parents.

Recreation Recruitment

Despite the zero weather. recreation
majors at Indiana linivcrsity, last win-
ter, crowded into a meeting room to
listen to Woody Sutherland of the Na-
tional Recreation Association Reerca-
lion Personnel Service speak about
“The Employment Opportunities in the
Field of Recreation.” This scene, with
different faces, is being played all over
the country, as more and more young
people. realize the very real satisfactions
to be derived from a career in reerca-
tion. As Woody himself puts it, “Be-
sides the real, monetary incomc. there is
the all-important factor of psychic in-
come.”

a”;

i
h

as

Under a Star-Shaped Roof

A spectacular star-shaped roof tops
the new Arroyo Viejo Children’s Thea-
ter in Oakland, California. Some sixty-
seven feet in width, the roof is in the
shape of a four-pointed star made in
eight prefabricated sections. It is built
along the lines of an airplane wing; with
fir plywood skins. The roof is supported
by two sets of three-sided pylons. These
are painted in vivid colors and can be
easily and quickly rotated for scenery
changes.

 

/‘r\

Constructed by the Oakland Recrea-
tion Department, the theater, which
seats 475, is so oriented that the roof
dip and wingspread exclude sun rays
from performers’ eyes, yet the stage
floor itself can be bathed in sunlight.
Irwin Luekman, Oakland architect, de-
signed the theater, which is located in
a woodland and spans a creek on the
spacious grounds of the Arroyo Viejo
Recreation Center, years ago the site of
a Japanese nursery.

 

Salute!

Of the eight winners in the fourth
Community Achievement Contest four
were selected for recreation develop-
ments. The contest is cosponsored by
the General Federation of Women’s

Clubs and the Sears-Roebuck Founda-

tion. The communities cited for recrea.
tion:

0 Wild Rose, Wisconsin, whose 584 in-
habitants built a library, developed a
park reclaimed from swampland, and es-
tablished a center for migrant workers.
0 Clinton, Iowa, which developed a
self-sustaining, seventy-piece symphony
orchestra.

0 Homewood, Illinois, which built a
new community high school and equip-
ped a teenage center.

0 St. Helens, Oregon, which healed bad
feelings between its “old” and “new”
towns, with the development of a new
public park, a recreation hall for teen-
agers, and a museum housing Ameri-
cana from the old Oregon Trail days.

Expectant Connnunity

Like many small towns, Fairfield,
Illinois, has to stretch its recreation dol-
lars to the utmost. Therefore the com-
munity promoted a “baby shower” to
equip its parks. Individuals were inviled
to earmark donations for specific equip-
ment: picnic oven, swimming pool lad-
der, bicycle racks, and so on. Fairfield
found this provided hefty boost to its
sagging recreation budget.

 

3111 mptnnrtam

 

0 Readers of RECREATION will be sorry
to learn that Arthur Katona—a well-
known contributor to our magazine—-
has died of a heart attack at his home
in Golden, Colorado. Mr. Katona was a
champion of square dancing as a social
activity for everybody rather than for
a few “experts” and wrote widely on
this subject. His last article in RECREA-
TION, “Folk'Daneers, We’re Overlook-
ing Our American Jazz Tradition,” ap-

peared in November, 1954.

0 \Villiam A. Stineheomb, who was
largely responsible for the “emerald
necklace” of parks in Greater Cleve-
land, Ohio, died on January 17 at the
age of eighty. Shortly after his appoint-
ment as city parks commissioner in
1902, Mr. Stineheomb began advocat-
ing a ring of parks stretching from the
Chagrin River Valley on the east to the
Rocky River Valley on the west. He was
appointed first director of the Cleveland
Metropolitan Park System in 1921 and
served until his retirement in 1957. The
system now contains a 125-mile chain
of roads, bridle paths, nature trails,
covers fourteen thousand acres of wood-
ed land, and has eight million visitors
a year. There are plenty of rabbits, chip-
munks, wildflowers and birds in the
park system but nary a billboard or a
hot dog stand. #

 

CAMPING REFERENCE LISTS

Day Camps

The following articles on day camping have appeared in
RECREATION during the last few years. If you don’t have the
issues on your shelves, consult your local library.

City Day Camping—Country Style .................................. .. March 1954
Indian Lore in Camp .......................................................... .. March 1954
A New Venture in Day Camping ..................................... .. March 1954
Day Camping in City Parks .............................................. .. March 1954
Day Camping Facilities and Program .............................. .. March 1954
Day “Camptivities” .............................................................. .. March 1954
Day Campers Go A’Vagahonding .................................... .. March 1954
Camp Planning ...................................................................... .. June 1954
Recreation-School Cooperation in Camp Programs. September 1954
Day Camp Program for “Why-Daddies” .......................... .. May 1955
Outdoor Recreation and an Adventure .............................. .. June 1955
Needs of Present Day Children—How Can Camps

Meet Them .......................................................................... .. June 1955
New Horizons in Campfires .................................................. .. June 1955
Cooperative Camping ..................  .......................................... .. June 1956
Camping for Tomorrow ...................................................... .. March 1957
Creativity in Camp Music .................................................. .. March 1957
Flag Ceremony .................................................................... .. March 1957
Nature Tools ........................................................................ .. March 1957
Westward Ho! ...................................................................... .. March 1957

100

Nature Study in a Playground Day Camp ...................... .. March 1957
The Personal Touch in Day Camping .............................. .. March 1957
Camping Today .................................................................... .. March 1958
Canoeing in Camps .......................................................... .. .. March 1958
Capacity Attendance at Day Camp .................................. .. March 1958
Evaluating the Recreation Camp Program .................. .. March 1958
The Coat That Taught the Children .............................. .. March 1958
The Indians Are Day Camping .......................................... .. April 1958

Camping for Senior Citizens

Camping facilities and activities for this special age group
are, of course, geared to the needs, abilities, and interests of
oldsters.

Articles from RECREATION Magazine:

Camping for Oldsters .......................................................... .. March 1950
Take Your Oldsters Out-of-Doors ...................................... .. April 1950
A Day’s Camping for Youngsters Over Sixty .......... .. September 1951
Day Camp for Oldsters ...................................................... .. March 1952
The Maturing of Golden-Age Camps .................................. .. June 1953
New Pamphlet

Summer Is Ageless by Ceorgene Bowen, published by the National
Recreation Association. $1.00.

RECREATION

On’Post

Recreation

Family “Specials”

A Pet Parade/Dog Show was part of
a successful program feature conducted
by Service Club No. 1 at Fort Lewis,
Washington, for on-post families. Co-
sponsors were the post veterinarian and
the 49th Infantry Scout Dog Platoon.
Special prizes were awarded for child-
ren and their pets dressed to character-
ize storybook and/ or song titles. Other
prizes were for the most comic animal,
best dressed pet, largest, smallest, and
best animal in the parade. A special
prize was offered for the best pet “fam-
ily.” The tiny ones rode in a doll buggy
or coaster wagon decorated with gay
crepe paper.

It was expected that the smaller
children and their pets would be quite
thrilled by this event, but no one antici-
pated the wholehearted post-wide en-
thusiasm generated by the dog show
itself. Owners and trainers took the
parade and dog show seriously indeed,
resulting in some surprising feats by
the dogs as well as some humorous in-
cidents. The success of this event has
paved the way for its becoming an
annual service-club feature.

A “Tri-Service Ciub F air” was another
post event, this one sponsored by three
service clubs at Fort Lewis. The idea
started with recreation leader Marlene
Mason of Service Club No. 1.

The football stadium provided the
setting for gaily decorated booths
featuring competitive games including
archery, balloon bust, duck shoot, fas-
cination, peanut toss, table tennis, bas-
ketball, football, tire toss, nail driving,
and weight guessing. Score sheets were
given participants of these activities to
determine winners. Prizes were given

MARCH 1959

 

Service club pet parade. and dog show proved to be more than jllsl “kid stuff.”

separately for bingo, a bean-guessing
game, and a gate prize. Noneompetitive
booths ineluded a cake-decorating dem-
onstration by a professional decorator
from a Tacoma bakery; a bake sale con-
ducted by the Army Dependent Wives’
Arts and Crafts Club; a display of
crafts items and demonstrations on the
potter’s wheel, provided by the post
crafts shops; a ceramics exhibit pro-
vided by the post exchange. Concessions
provided pony and swing rides for small
children. Horses were rented for the
older children. Every hour, during the
afternoon and evening, a grandstand
show was presented. The 12th Infantry
Regiment band, featuring a majorette
from Tacoma, opened the afternoon and
evening special events. Events included
a trampoline exhibition by the Special
Services sports division; an exhibition
by the 49th Scout Dog Platoon; an
army band concert; a Western fashion
show produced by a Tacoma store, fea-
turing teenagers of the youth activity
center as models; and various other en-
tertainment.

An estimated seven thousand attend-
ed, representing all elements of the mil-
itary community. By all standards, the
fair was acclaimed a great success.—

MIRIAM EVANS, stat] service club direc-
tor, Headquarters 6th U.S. Army, Pre-
sidio of San F rancisco, Cali/0min.

* * *

For Children

A Youth Activities program, de-
signed to meet the recreation needs of
the children of servicemen, is an impor-
tant facet of the new concept of the base
community. At Fort Dix, New Jersey, a
teen club and special dancing classes

are included in this on-post program.

Teen C (ab

Composed of thirteen- to fourteen-
year-old boys and girls, the Teen Club
is chaperoned and guided by a non-
commissioned oflicer and his wife, both
paid from Youth Activity funds. lts
program is conducted by the teenagers
themselves, operating under an execu-
tive committee.

The club is open to its enrollment of
approximately 150-160 members three
days and nights a week during the sum-
mer months and Friday and Saturday
nights during the school year, in a
building designated for this purpose by
the post, which provides maintenance
and utilities as well.

The program consists of a weekly
record dancc, weekly bingo, and a game
tourney night. The snack bar is open
during such programs. One formal
dance a month is scheduled, and special
events, such as picnics, are conducted
during the summer. Attendance varies
from one to two hundred on Friday
to ninety to one hundred on Saturdays.

Dancing ciasses

Paid for by the individual students,
the classes, held Saturday mornings
and taught by the Fred Astaire Dance
Studio teachers from Philadelphia, at-
tract an approximate attendance of
fifty per season.

Sponsored by the Ollicers’ Wives
Club and operating under one chairman
appointed from this group, this project
also has the benefit of an advisor from
the Youth Activities Council. A large
room in one of the area buildings. pro-
vided and maintained by the post, and
also used for other youth activities, is
the scene of these terpsichorean endeav-
era—From Fort Dix Recreational Ac-
tivities, a baIIetin.

101

. A g _ CAM FOR EXCEPTIONAL

 

CHILDREN

Rita Saunders and Herbert Sellact

Meet Charlie, a bright-eyed, towheatled youngster of ten.
He’s alert, curious—and destructive. A dozen psychiatrists have
pronounced him hopelessly retarded—“unteachable,” they said.

Today he was up before 7 A.M. made his bed, wrote a post-
card to his folks, and was ready for a swimming lesson with his
camp counselor before breakfast was on the table.

In the course of a few short weehs, he’s become an eager
apprentice in the arts and crafts shop, and, most important of
all, he’s learned a lot about the art of getting along with other
youngsters his age.

He is a camper at Camp Waterford, [Connecticut].—Hart-
ford Courant Magazine.

How happiness through accomplish-
ment is brought within the reach of
the “exceptional” child—who,
because of emotional, physical, or
mental handicaps—is “diherent.”

ALL CHILDREN respond to camping programs, even slow
and maladj usted children. In every community there
are such youngsters with mental, social, and emotional prob-
lems. These may be divided into three basic categories:
educable, trainable, and custodial. Camping can effectively
help the educable and trainable child and even some eusto-
dial children.

Basically, the physical operation of a specialized camp is
similar to that of many highly rated camps for normal
children. However, buildings and facilities may differ, ac-
cording to the special needs of different types of campers.

The staff of the special camp is divided into three groups:
administrative, counselor, and maintenance. Heading this
is an administrative director, whose job it is to plan over-all
policies and long-range objectives and to take care of busi-
ness. Aided by competent advisors and each eamper’s eon-
fidential case history, he plans the grouping of campers,
conducts correspondence with parents, psychologists, psy-
chiatrists, and agencies working with children.

At this camp, staff members directly responsible to the
administrative director are:
0 An administrative assistant, who attends to operation of
the camp plant; supervises the kitchen, repairs and mainten-
anee department, the petty cash, shopping; and assumes
other necessary details, relieving the director of such re-
sponsibilities. He has a staff, including cooks, kitchen, and
dining-room personnel, cleaners, camp chauffeur, farm per-
sonnel if needed, and various maintenance men.
0 A program director who, guided by the director and his
knowledge of each child’s problem and case history, plans
with the staff and supervises program operation. He is re-
sponsible for all matters pertaining to the childrens’ activi-
ties twenty-four hours a day, and supervises the counselor

MRS. SAUNDERS and MR. SCHACT are codirectors of Camp
Waterford, Quaker Hill, Connecticut.

102

 

staff, activity specialists, and house parents.
0 A camp nurse, who is responsible for the camp’s health.

All personnel assist the children wherever and whenever
needed. Every individual engaged in the camp operation is
important to its success—weakness in any area can cause
difficulties. Since camping is for the camper, those in direct
contact with the child for the greatest part of the day—the
cabin counselors—are key personnel. We find teachers are
best suited to work with these children, though many excel-
lent counselors are medical, social-work, speech-therapy, or
nursing students, or professionals in these fields.

A psychologist can greatly assist a special camp hy acting
as an advisor to the program director and as a resource per-
son to whom staff may come with individual problems about
the children and their care. He can take part in the training
program for the staff and, in some instances, may offer
therapy to individual children.

The personality and character of the individual counselor
and his interest in his job are of greater importance than
his educational background. Specialists should be expert
teachers in their fields. Staff training should include an in-
service training program, weekly staff meetings, frequent
individual conferences, on-the-job instruction and super-
vision, professional films, and lectures.

Also important to the success of a special camp is the
selection and grouping of children according to their emo-
tional and social maturity, physical coordination, chrono-
logical and mental age. Groups should be carefully bal-
anced, so each child may benefit by his association with
others. Any child potentially dangerous to himself or others
should not be accepted. Those on the slower levels of the
trainable group may require individual attention in a room
with, or adjacent to, a special counselor. Severely malad-
justed children may be part of a small group, but may re-
quire individual rooms in which to sleep and rest.

The ratio of counselor to camper may have to be one-to-

RECREATION

 
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
   
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  

one; however, one-to-two-and-a-half or-three is the average.
Six children and two counselors to a cabin unit often proves
to bc a proper sized group, with relief counselors used on
days off.

The program at Waterford Camp is regimented. Every
hour of the child's day is planned beforehand and is exe-
cuted with the aid of bugle calls over a public-address sys-
tem. A routine basic time schedule is planned for the entire
snnuner from 6:45, reveille; 7:15, assembly; 7:30, break-
fast; 9:15, eabin inspection; and 9:30, first aetivity; straight
through the day, to lights out at 8 P.M., taps at 9 o’cloek.
There are four day-aetivity periods interspersed with lunch,
rest, milk call, flag lowering, supper, and evening activity.
Within this apparently rigid schedule is a very flexible
individual program policy. The counselor supervising chil-
dren during their baseball, swimming, dancing, cooking, or
arts and erafts periods has the freedom to earry out his pro-
gram aecording to the mood and interest of the group at
the moment. Programs are not accelerated or competitive,
but are based on eaeh child’s individual needs. Actual ac-
complishments somctimes comprise little more than learn-
ing to tie shoelaees, make a bed, throw a ball, or sit pr0perly
at table. However, thme encourage the ehild and bring forth
happiness and pride, stimulating him to further endeavors.

Special events are also part of the program and may in-
clude sneh eustomary events as masquerades, dramatic pro-
grams, square and social dances, treasure hunts, overnight
hikes, trips to the beach, movies, and nearby points of in-
terest, and others. The evening program is usually a large
group aetivity that brings the entire eamp together. It could
be an amateur night, boxing, a simplified athletic tourna-
ment, or a campfirc.
Camp service projects are another valuable program as-
pect. Useful occupational work provides children with a
sense of belonging—ineludes assignments to the farm for
milking, earing for stoek, working in the vegetable garden,
cleaning and maintaining farm machinery, helping in the
laundry. Older children may assist with the kindergarten
group. Older boys help the carpcnter in repair or mainten-
ance work. Others assist the groundkecper in planting and
caring for flowers, trees, and shrubs. Kitchen duty can be
a regular activity that includes assisting the chef in food
preparation.
Waterford serviee teams are also organized as work
groups to bc called upon for any nceded task. Service ac-
tivities are coordinated with the arts and crafts pr0gram,
including repair of toys, furniture, and other equipment.
Printing and posting of signs, notices, and the camp news-
paper are other service projccts. These are sought-aftcr as-
signments, the ehildren considering it a privilege to help in
real aetivities.

l’lower groups require a separate program to substitute
for activities in which some children are'not eapable of
partieipating. Such a program may include many activities
of the other campers but on a vcry simple level. Howevcr,
lllcae childrcn are brought into other small and large group

tivities wherever possible.

l’ractieal training is a camp activity for all campers,

men 1959

whieh includes training in dressing. personal hygiene, man-
ners. The eanlpers’ safety is maintained by adhering to the
principle that the campcr be within the visual surveillance
of an adult at all times during his waking hours. The health
of the eamp is maintained by adequate diet, rest, observa-
tion, and care. Camp security is maintained by an officer-of-
the-day system. Each area of the camp is secured by one or
two night OD’s who go on duty at 8:00 PM. and are on ac-
tive duty until midnight and on eall until 7 :00 A..\t., when the
day OD replacement comes on duty. The night OD’s are
reSponsible for the camp’s order and safety. They make bed
ehccks and perform other duties outlined on a checklist,
turned over to the program director upon completion of the
tour of duty. The night OD does not retire until the staff has
returned at midnight. This insures continual adult supcr-
vision, twenty-four hours a day.

The day OD is responsible for operating the public-ad-
dress system and bugle calls. acting as offieial camp host,
and maintaining the information and message center. Other
duties include distributing mail and acting as an extra per-
son to care for individual ehildren who must be temporarily
separated from a group.

It might seem that a regimented camp with an OD system
is not conducive to the happy atmosphere one would like to
think of in a eamp situation. However, it must he kept in
mind that these are exceptional children who, if left to
thcir own resourees, are unable to play or function at any-
where near their own age level, as they lack the necessary
understanding and initiative. Some may have diflicult be-
havior patterns; others may be hyperactive, a bundle of
motion, going aimlessly in all directions at onee. To these
children, order, discipline, and boundaries of behavior are
necessary for security and happiness. Strangely enough,
sixty children, caeh representing complex problems. can live
together harmoniously and carry on a program of aetivities.

The attitude of camp personnel must be one of patience,
kindness, understanding, acceptance, and encouragement. in
eontrast to the fault-finding and rejection such children re-
eeive from many people of their everyday world. The rhythm
pattern of the campers’ activities seems so normal. happy.
and peaceful, that a stranger observing thcm may ask,
“Where are the rctarded children ?”

Like all human beings, who use only a small part of their
potential, exccptional children are eapable of a great deal
more than is realized. They need to belong and contribute
to a group, to experience the joy of achievement, to feel
and be treated like other children. Rejection has usually
played a major role in their lives—rejection hy other chil-
dren, by the segregatcd classes in school, by neighbors. and
sometimes by their families. (See “Is Recrcation for Every-
one?" November, 1958, RECREATION.)

At a special camp these children experienee responsibility
and achieve happiness through aecomplishment. Each
eamper is a participating member of a group whosc motto
is. “Evcrybody is Somcbody." Through such an experience
limitations of K) and mental age can be eircumvented—to
devel0p to its utmost a new faetor, thc AQ (Accomplishment
Quotient). 

103

CRAFTS WITH NATURAL MATERIALS

Front now through full is the time to collect and
use natural materials for many interesting art and

craft projects. This outline was developed by Betty
V an Norman, NRA interne in the Philadelphia Rec-

‘What to look for

Flowers

 

Grasses

 

Cattails
Burrs

 

 

Pods, Seeds,
Calls, Acorns

 

l lorn

__Nuts_
Cones (small)

 

(large)

 

hioss

Bark (any)
(birch)

 

Wood
Driftwood
along lakes
and streams
Partially
rotted wood
Partially
burned wood
Roots
Burl
Limbs with
good grain
and form

Animals

reation Department, and was used in a recreation
leadership training course. If you want to use it
for class or a bulletin board, clip along inside dotted
line.

  
   
    
 
   

How to
a finish it

Dry flowers in clean sand. Wash sand until water remains clear. Put sand
in a can and heat until dry. When sand has cooled put in can. Shove the
stem of a freshly picked flower into the sand. Then gently sprinkle sand
into the can until the flower is covered. The dry sand absorbs the moisture
from the flower and it retains its natural shape and color. Drying time

depends on the size of the flower. Small, dainty ones will dry in two days,
WhllC larger ones may take as long as a week.

_Cather when dry or cut and let dry.

What to make it with flow to make it

 

Dried arrangements None needed

Shadowhox pictures

 

Dried arrangements
Shadowbox pictures

Dried arrangements

Dried arrangements
Shadowbox pictures

Dried arrangements
Shadowbox pictures
Earrings, Pins
Dangle bracelet
Curtain pulls

No. 1 (below)

 

Gather when dry or cut and let dry.
Gather when dry or cut and let dry.

None needed

None or No. 2
or 3

None or No. 2
or 3

 

  
    

 

Let dry. Clean.

No. 2 or 4

llings, l’ins No. 2 or 4
Napkin rings
Belt buckles

Buttons, Pendants

Clean with knife or scraper made of tin-can lid doubled over, until only
the hard born remains. Sand. lt can be sawed with a coping saw.

 

 

 

_ ___..._..._.._.._._....._l
Buttons, Bracelets Saw across nut, cutting it into thin discs. No. 2 I
Earrings Take cone apart carefully. Clue parts to earring back to look like flower No. 2 I

petals.
Dried arrangements None or No. 2
. or 3
Table arrangements
Crass garden Sprinkle seed then dirt into the crevices of the cone. Set upright in a saucer
of water. Keep it damp.
Pictures
Table arrangements No. 1
Jewelry, Initials Use only dry bark. Whittle or carve. None or No. 2
Pictures or 4.
Waste baskets Strip from fallen trees in sections. None or rub
Containers Cover cans. with Cloth used

Cut strips and laee ends together, or glue to cardboard cylinder.
Clue to cardboard base.

Fold and lace.

Napkin rings
Album covers
Book covers

for wax finish.

 

Canoes Lace.
Scrolls Paint.
Book ends Cover plywood, box side. Attach to metal base cut from a tin can.
Background for
pictures
Checkerboard Glue squares to wood or cardboard back.
Jewelry Remove loose bark and rotted parts. Saud smooth. Finish with steel wool No.2or 4.
Earrings if available. A brush will help to clean impressions and crcvices.
Bracelets
Pins . . . . . . . . .
Buttons Finishing A'aturol Materials -— Use a fimsh for natural materials that will bring
out rather than hide their natural beauty. Many will need little or no finish to make
them look their best. Some need finish to emphasize their shape, their grain, or their
Cuff links natural colorings. The use for which the completed article is intended will also influ-
Mobiles ence the type of finish.

1. For white or light-colored grasses or woods, when flexibility or natural grain
is to be retained and color added, use a transparent dye made by soaking erepe paper
in water. Dip grasses and let them dry. The eolor will come out very nicely. Paint the
dye on wood. let it dry, sand, and sbellac. The dye tiuts the wood slightly but does not
hide the grain.

2. For articles that need a high gloss, will have hard use, or will be washed use
clear shellac, varnish, or lacquer.

3. For materials used for ornamentol purposes which need color to show thcm off,
use an opaque paint. '

4. For woods, lorge smooth seeds, galls, nuts, and so on, used mainly for orna-
mental purposes because of their grain and that look best with a soft finish, use wax.
Melt candles or paraffin and paint on a very thin coat of the wax. Let harden and rub
with a soft cloth until the excess wax has been removed and the article has a soft shine.
Candle wax is the more durable. Colored eandles will color the wood slightly. Crayons
melted witb paraflin will also change the color of the wood. #

Watch fobs

Curtain pulls
Paperweigbts
Table arrangements
Ornamental pieces
Appetizer holder

Name plates for
desks and doors

Book ends

Letter openers

Pickle fork

Salad spoon and fork

Checkers

Coat hangers

Scarf rack

Hanging haskets .

_—_——_—____—_____________—_____—_—

104.

Recumrlos

 

 

A NATURE MURAL

Dorothy R. Flood

M AKING A MURAL of nature materi-
als is not only a pleasant activity
for a rainy day but is an original way to
stimulate an interest in nature. It will
arouse a camper’s imagination and
cause him to look more closely at nature
to record what he sees. In order to draw
an object, he must know how it works,
Le. how a frog’s legs go, what is the
identifying shape of a certain tree, the
curve of a path, the rise of a hill. As he
develops his awareness of nature, his
curiosity will lead to research and re-
tention.

Encourage members of your group to
select a broad t0pic for the subject
matter of a mural. It could be the life
of the squirrels that live in a nearby
oak, or bird life, or weather. They must
then decide to spend some time ob-
serving the squirrels, birds, or weather;
to compare what they see with previous
observations, such as of two squirrels
playing tag around the trunk of an oak;
squirrels building a cool sunnncr nest

of leaves. while in winter they live in a
tree trunk.

MRS. FLOOD is a past contributor to
RECREATION, (March, 1958), and an ex-

perienced camp leader. Her home is in
Media, Pennsylvania.

. ARCH 1959

If the topic is birds, everyone ob-
serves their different millincry and how
careful they are building their llOIllCS
to fit their needs. If weather, Mr. Sun
drinking up water through the rays,
similar to the way we drink a soda, may
become something to include in the
mural. Thus, facts of nature will stir up
many imaginary pictures that can be
developed into small pencil sketches.
After the campers have made many pen-
cil sketches or notes, the fun starts as
they put them into some kind of a se-
quence to tell a story in pictures.

For the mural, the only equipment
needed is a roll of brown or white
wrapping paper, soft charcoal, a yard-
stick, and a box of oil-paint crayons.
These crayons are obtainable in a large
art store and come under various trade
names. They can be used like regular
crayons, the pointed end for small areas
and the broad side for larger sections,
or they can be dipped in turpentine for
oil-paint effects.

If the roll of wrapping paper is di-
vided into sections about three feet
square for each sketch, the finished
mural will look well at a distance. An
uneven line drawn through all the
squares to give a connecting horizon

will prevent the possibility of mountains
in one square being under a creek in an-
other squarc. By drawing with charcoal
first, corrections can be made before
adding colors. After coloring, the
sketches should be outlined with black
crayon for‘grcatcr visibility.

The complete mural will be a big
attraction on visitors’ day. It will also
be a nice decoration for a cabin or din-
ing hall or it can be attached from tree
to tree along a path. Each camp group
may like to make its own mural, and
they can all be exhibited as a special
art show.

At first campers may be slow to re-
spond and seem afraid to use their imag-
inations along nature lines. if this hap-
pens, they can work together on a sort
of “brainstorming” session. contribut-
ing bits of ideas that can be sketched
into an idea chart. Then when a camper
becomes stack for an idea, he may bor-
row one from the chart, and develop it.
The sketch shows an idea chart based
on weather—a wonderful subject.

Observations made and ideas de-
veloped for the mural won't be forgot-
ten. Learning to look at nature and
then adding personal imagination is a
fine way to dcvcl0p appreciation. #

105

 

Walter E. Damon

Camping Therapy

for
Delinquents

rzmping can help institutionalized
delinquents to acclimatize to en-
forced group living.

Six years ago, the New York State
Agricultural and Industrial School, in
the town of Industry (Monroe County),
set up a camp for its boys to provide a
short “
ing. Aptly named, Camp Pioneer is on
the school grounds in rolling country-
side along the banks of the Cenesee near
Rochester. The school itself is Oper-
ated by the state social welfare depart-
ment.

The daily life of the boys living in
cottages in an institution must, of ne-
cessity, follow a set and often monoto-
nous routine. Living under these con-
ditions can cause tensions that have
alerted the school to the need for a
change from this.

There is no set schedule at camp.
The early-to-bed and early-to-rise rou-
tine is cast aside in favor of a more

vacation” from institution liv-

rcstful and less set pattern. Boys are
encouraged to do their own cooking on
stone fireplaces used by the occupants
of two tents at a time. These are not
permanent fireplaces, but piles of stone
that the boys can change to meet their
own specifications and whims. Cook-
ing utensils and a grill are supplied
each two tents, with dishwashing after
cook-outs assigned to the regular kitch-
en boys.

If at all possible, on the day that a
new group arrives at camp, the early
evening hours are spent on an explor-
ation hike in the neighboring woods.
This not only gives the camp leader an
opportunity to acquaint the boys with

MR. DAMON is superintendent of recrea-

tion and physical education at the State
Agricultural and Industrial School, In-

dustry, New York.

106

 

_ '1

Outdoor group living provides a healthy change from the set
routine of institution schedules and gives boys new experiences.

the camp site, its limits, and some of
the advantages of camping, but he can
get to know his group in a more relaxed
atmosphere.

It would be difficult to list Camp
Pioneer activities in order of most in-
terest or value. They vary with the age
and past experience of a group as well
as that of its leaders. However, with
all groups, fire building and cooking
rate very near the tap. Wood consists
of dead trees, brush, and discarded lum-
her. Boys will work hours on end with
an axe and two-man saw to cut enough
wood for a few hours of relaxation
around a fire. Lacking previous experi-
ence, many of them are rather dubious
about doing any cooking, but attempt
it with the aid and encouragement of
their fellow campers and brief instruc-
tions from the staff.

The camp program includes hikes
over the school’s fourteen hundred roll-
ing acres. Simple camp and low-organi-
zation games are played, generally after
a rest period or during the evening
hours. All boys are scheduled to use
the pool three periods a week. There
are “off-campus” trips to areas of in-
terest in the vicinity, sometimes made
more fun with a picnic. The last night
of camp is often the most interesting
night of the week, with a campfire,
singing, skits, and all-round fun.

The camp site was once a farm cot-
tage in a small tract of woods one mile
from the administration building. As
this camp was formerly used by the
Boy Scouts, it was in fair repair and
includes a large barn, small tool shed,
a shack, and a bathhouse.

Three years ago the Rochester Rotary
Club donated money to be used for im-
provements; and the engineering and
maintenance departments were instru-
mental in building the bathhouse, eight

cement platforms, and for piping hcit
water into the kitchen. 'Folding cots
and air mattresses were also purchased.

To ready the camp for occupancy
takes approximately three days of con-
centrated work for one man and four
boys. The six tents must be put up and
the two 9'-by-12' cabins cleaned for the
boys’ sleeping quarters. Battens are re-
moved from windows, the grass cut, re-
frigerator and stove installed, and nu-
merous lesser details attended to, prior
to the first campers’ arrival the last
week in June.

In all, there are ten one-week camp-
ing periods. The majority of approxi-
mately two hundred and fifty campers
are from the junior and intermediate
groups. It is felt these boys will derive
more benefit from the program than
will the older boys.

The program, as far as possible, is
planned during the winter. An Open
invitation is sent to all cottages at the
school stating when camp will be Open
and what activities and benefits are of-
fcred. The flier provides opportunity
to sign up for the most desirable dates,
to assure their attendance when the
regular staff is on duty. After the camp
periods have been assigned, this sched-
ule and a more detailed plan for a
week’s camping is forwarded to each
group.

Sunday of each camping period is
devoted to moving to the camp site, as-
signing the boys, three in each group,
to their tent or cabin. The boys are
then instructed in camp safety and told
about the simple rules.

The Camp Pioneer program exposes
the boys to many new experiences and
the school has found it helps them to
settle down to the regular routine, and
it has helped staff members reach the
more difficult cases. #-

I
RECREATION

  
  
   
   
   
  
   
 
  
  
  
    

1° ° 14. Curiosity (want to know about many things just for the
ua  sake of knowing).

Emotional Maturity
Of a  1. Can you accept criticism without undue anger or hurt,

analyzing it ohjectively and acting upon it if justi-
fied; disregarding it, if not?

  2. Do you avoid being overeritieal of others, denouncing

them for each small fault?

3. Are you genuinely pleased at the successes of your fam-
ily and friends?

4. Do you refrain from listening to and repeating little

Check yourself and
your staff. Do they

measure up? , ,
items of gosSip about others?

 

"can" 5. Watch your conversation for a few days. Do you talk
1. Stamina enough to last through a strenuous day. largely about other people and things rather than
2. Regular, well-balanced meals. about yourself?

3. Regular sleep in sullieient quantity—early curfew. 6. Are you altruistic, often putting the welfare and hap-
4. Smoking not at all or moderately and in an appropriate piness of others ahove your own?

place. 7. Are you free from emotional outbursts?
5. Abstinence from intoxicating liquors. 8. Do you face disagreeable duties promptly and without
6. Sufficient vigorous exercise each day. trying to escape by playing sick or making excuses?

9. Can you stay away from home a month or more with-

Acce tabi'li't to Others .
p y out undue homeSICkness?

1' Pleasnfg and neat appearance' _ 10. Can you weigh facts and make decisions promptly, then
2. Cleanliness of person and clothing. abide hyjyonr decisions.)
3' Gracmusflés and mannerlmcss' _ o 11. Do you posponc things you want to do now in favor of
4. Tact (ability to speak truthfully, but without offending greater benefih or pleasure later!)

or lmn‘mg Other5)' _ 12. Are you usually on good terms with your family and
5. Cooperativeness (even when carrying out the plans of associalcsg

Others)‘ . v 13. When things go wrong, can you objectively determine
6. Cheerfulness (without sulkiness and grouches) . the came and remedy it without alibingg

v I . , r 0 ~ I C .

7' Sense 0‘ h‘fmor (F‘ e" “he” [he 10]“? S on you): 14. When disagreeing with another, can you usually work
8' Goad EnghSh _(W‘lh°“l excess: Slang or pmfamly)’ out a mutually satisfactory agreement that leaves no
9. Warmth (a friendly personality that attracts—not an hard feelings!)

ieeherg) .

_ _ v _ _ _ 15. Can you enjoy informal social events without a “wall-
10. POise (even in emergeneies or embarrassing situations).

flower” feeling?

Adapmbimy ,0 Camp Life 16. Do you get real enjoyment out of doing little things
for others, even though you know they will likely re-
main unknown and unappreeiated?

17. Do you wear neat but modest clothes?

18. Are you ordinarily free from worry and remorse over

_ past sins and mistakes that can’t he remedied now?

19. When dealing with others, can you make decisions fair-

- ly, regardless of personal dislike or resentment?

20. When you are the leader of a group, do you use demo-
eratic methods and avoid dictating?

21. Are you loyal to your friends, minimizing or not men-
tioning their faults to others?

22. Are you free from touehiness, so that others do not have
to handle you with kid gloves?

23. Do you act according to your honest convictions re-

1. Love of children (even the less attractive and “naughty”
ones). _
2. Enjoyment of hard work (even when it means soiling
person and clothing).
3. Skills and knowledge of outdoor living (in rain, as well
as sunshine).
4. Adaptability (can cheerily adapt to changes in plan
necessitated hy inclement weather).
5. Can take as well as give orders.
6. Love of fun (can see possibilities for enjoyment in al-
most any situation).
. Interest in a wide variety of fields.
. Specialization (ahility to do at least one camp activity

well).
' I . -' r . 9
. Initiative (ability to get started without outside prod- gardlcss Of “hm Others ma) dunk fir Sit) about 11'
ding) We know that everyone cannot be proficient in every one

of these qualities.
Let’s check up on ourselves and try to acquire as many as

we can so we can give our campers the best within us! g5,"

. Promptncss at all appointments and in all tasks.
. Dependability (do what you say when you say you will).
. Industry (want to be constantly Up and doing).

' Pch‘Slcncc (fm'Sh What You 313” “'“h dlspamh and Reprinted. with permission. from April, 1958. Camp B'nai
thoroughness). B‘rith Newsletter.

son 1959 , 107

G. Leslie Lynch

An expert explains how
to make the most of your '
recreation open space.

Design
ReCreation
Areas . . .

WHY?

‘ l 7 IIY IT IS advisable to have a competent landscape arch-

itect design a recreation area is answered by describ-
ing what he does. He attacks the problem very much as the
writer and the painter evolve their compositions. First, he
informs himself on the subject; then outlines the major con-
siderations, and finally comes to the details. The reverse or-
der would not produce a good plan.

Why special skill and cXpericnce are required is brought
out by an illustration. Anyone can put spots of paint on
a canvas, but the skill of a Leonardo da Vinci or Rem-
brandt is necessary in order to arrange those spots of color
into a composition that has lasting value. The recreation
area can he a feature of which everyone is proud. a feature
which has a beneficial effect upon the property values of
the vicinity, or it can be something of which everyone is
ashamed and which reduces property values in the vicinity.
To make it good, competent planning and the help of a
trained person are required. The cost is small in compari-
son to the benefits derived.

Before proceeding with the planning, the designer re-
quires a topographical survey map of the site. showing the
contours, existing buildings, trees, rock out-croppings, water
and sewer lines, boundary line, streets, and all other infor-
mation necessary for working out the plan. He visits the com-
munity to inspect the site and environs, to talk with all con-
cerned, and to acquaint himself with the community’s recre-
ation needs. Only then can he plan intelligently and prac-
tically. It is desirable to precede site planning with a com-
prehensive recreation survey, in order to have more definite
information as a basis for the site planning. ln the absence
of a comprehensive survey, the planner must size up the situ-
ation through personal observations at the site.

Among the major factors the designer considers, as he
evolves the plan, are site location and size in relation to the

 

MR. LYNCH is a professional recreation planner and landscape
architect on the National Recreation Association stag.

108

LE

A PLAYGROUNPWARK

—
-I—-
=3
.—
_
-
——.
—
I—
—
—
_
—
—
nun-
—
H
—-
—
_
.—
.—
_
—
=3
—
—.
.—
—
_
—
—
—
u
—
_
—.
_
—-
—
—
.—
_
—
_
*
—
-
—
—
—
—
—
—
-—
—
_
III-.-
_
-
—
—
—
II—u—
—
_
H
—
—
_
a—
—
—
—
—
_
—
—
——
—.
—
_
—
_
_
—
—
—
—
-
—
_
_
_
—
—
-—.
—
—
_
—
I—
_
.—
_
an...
—
.—
—
—
_
.—
.—
_
_
‘
—
—
—
—
.-
.—
—
_
-.—.
_

 

A recreation-school center: five-acre play-
ground, five-acre park, adjoining a school site.

population served, and the direction from which the people
will approach it. He also takes into account the age groups
to he served, the site's topography and general character, the
available funds for development, the number and type of
recreation facilities that should be provided. economy of
maintenance, and ease of supervision. With these consider-
ations weighed in the light of a background of years of train-
ing and experience in the design of outdoor areas, he is
ready to start.

The circulation system or the way by which the visitor to
the recreation area is led to the various units of the develop-
ment becomes the skeleton or framework of the design.
Beauty of line and logical organization of this determine
the plan’s success. ln working out circulation, the designer
has in mind the fundamental fact that the recreation area
is for pe0ple as pedestrians as well as participants. When
the recreation area is large enough or includes features to
attract people froin beyond the immediate neighborhood,
parking must be provided on the area’s periphery, but there
should he no drives within it, unless it is so large that it
becomes necessary to drive from one principal unit to an-
other. Even very large parks should not be designed as
places to go for a drive, nor should the park drive provide a
through route for motorists, going from one point to another
outside the park. They should be so designed that it is ne-
cessary for the visitor to park outside and become a pedes-
trian within the area.

The main entrance is the key point of the circulation sys-
tem and is so located as to be easily accessible to the greatest
number of visitors. If the recreation area is so located that
most visitors will come as motorists, the entrance should be
designed primarily for motorists; otherwise it should be
designed for pedestrians. The entrance design should sug-
gest the character of the development beyond; if the de-
velopment is formal, the entrance should be and vice versa.
Minor entrances should be provided where necessary, but

RECREATION

 
    
   
   
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
   
    
  
   
  

ould be reduced to a minimum and designed to indicate
ieir minor importance.

The circulation system should lead the visitor over an
iteresting route, with reasonable directness, to the Various
tures arranged in logical sequence on the framework of
e circulation system. A building or group of buildings
usually the most important feature; it should be reason-
bly near the main entranee, and it should be given a
ominant setting. Beyond the building the features are ar-
nged according to various influencing factors.

After the general arrangement of the area is determined,
ten come the design of details and relation of trees and
her plantings to both. Designing a recreation area ean

rtb is probably sufficient to show that it is a task for the
xpert with much training and experience.

More widespread appreciation of the value of functional
rder and beauty for these areas is bringing a more general
emand that they be skillfully planned. Because almost any-
ne ean move soil, pour concrete, and plant trees, and be-
use funds for the development of recreation areas are oftcn
? nited, those responsible for their develOpment are tempted
believe that they do not necd to employ a designer. It is
ise economy to do so, however, because such an area is a
ery important feature in a community.

If it is to be made beautiful. it must be large enough
ot to be too crowded and too intensively used, and large
tough to bc parklike in cbaraeter. Just as the painter must
ve adequate canvas on which to arrange his paint to pro-
uce his pieture, so the landscape arebitect must have enough

ily be described in general terms, but what has been set_

Space, not only to provide adequately for the peeple en-
gaging in their desired recreation activities, but large enough
so that intensive use will not destroy the beauty that is so
essential. Such an area is not large enough unless there are
grass and trees and the area can be maintained as a beauti-
ful community feature. Communities should not inflict upon
themselves a recreation area that has a depreciating effect
upon property values; it is sbortsighted and poor business
policy. It should be an inspiration to all who see and use it.

The value of the eompctent and eXperieneed designer is
also demonstrated in many other ways than in just working
out a funetional and beautiful scheme. For example, while
inSpecting a site be bad been commissioned to plan, a land-
seape architeet discovered that a strip of land on the other
side of the boundary road, also owned by the municipality,
could be added to the park by aequiring a single lot. This
would make it possible to move the road over and inerease
the park area by nearly three aeres—a possibility which
had not oceurred to the local officials.

It is just as important to employ skill in planning the
buildings. A community would not consider erecting a pub-
lic building witbout employing a recognized, able architect.
Likewise, no community should develop a rcereation area
until a plan has been worked out by a competent designer.

Recognizing the need for experienced planning of recre-
ation areas, for maximum beauty and funetion, the National
Recreation Association established a planning scrvice many
years ago. This service will continue to be an important ac-
tivity of the Association as long as this essential planning
need exists. ii:

s Things to Make for Easter s

   
 

Class Fiber Bunny
A sweet, gay eolored little rabbit.
: led “Hop-Atom Bunny,” is fireproof

Toledo 2, Ohio.

Write L. 0. F. Class Fibers Company,

Cut features and wings from construc-
tion paper and tape in place. Fill egg-
shell with Easter grass and brightly col-

d durable, made of Mierolite glass
er yet has the soft cuddly appearance
snow-white cotton. Pink ears, nose,
d eyes give him a mischievous air,
ile the little bouquet of spring flow-
5 indicates his heart is made of gold.
He is available in kit form, complete
' h two large pieces of Microlite for
ms, legs, head, body, puffy cbeeks.
l'tail. The kit also ineludes pink
de paper for ears, black suede paper
r eyelashes, two pink cabochons for
L- pink cotton ball for nose, ribbon,
.wer cluster, pattern sheet, and d irec-
ons for cutting out and assembling,
l special rubber cement for gluing.

   
    
  
   
  
   
   
  

n 1959

Little Chicken Group

MaIerials Needed: Colander; light-

weight cardboard; ccll0pbanc tape;
Sasheen ribbon; empty oatmeal box.
construetion paper; eolored tissue pa-
per; cgg coloring; lace paper doilies.
Half Egg Sheff: Cut a four-incb-wide
strip of cardboard, long enough to go
around the top of colander. Cut one
edge into jagged points, then hold in
place around the edge of eolander with
eellopbane tape. Cover the “shell” with
eolored tissue paper, pleating, and tap-
ing to form rounded surface.

Mother lien: Cover oatmeal box with
construction paper, and tape in back.

ored eggs, then set hen in center. Make
enough “magic bows" of Sasheen rib-
bon to eirele base of “shell.”

Baby Chick Candy Cups: Trace, on yel-

low eonstruetion paper, two cbicks for
each cup. Draw on features with erayon.
Place a paper eup between the two
ebieks, and hold together at beak and
tail witb eellopbane tape. Fill with jelly
beans.

Daisy Place Mats: Cut eigbt-inch-long
petal shapes from yellow construction
paper and tape seven petals to the baek
of each lace paper doily.tomakeadaisy.

 

Reprinted with permission. from the New
York Daily News. March 23, I958.

109

For the 41 st National Recreation Congress—
September 28 to October 2, 1959.

We "Are Going
to Chicago

So prepare! It should be easy for everyone to reach this
central meeting place, and great plans are afoot. This year
the Congress will be sponsored hy the National Recreation
Association and the American Recreation Society, with the
cooperation of the Council for Advancement of Hospital
Recreation, Federation of National Professional Organiza-
tions for Rccreation, Chicago Park District, Chicago Board
of Education, and the Illinois Recreation Association.

This will be the third year that the NRA has been joined
by the ARS in cosponsorship. A new, cooperative agrcemcnt
for the next five years has just bcen signed by the two or-
ganizations. Membcrs of both will hc taking an active part
in making this a bang-up Congress.

Policy Committee

The first meeeting of the 1959 Policy Committee was held
at the Morrison Hotcl in Chicago on January 29, 1959. Mem-

0'. I.

bl .~"

 

Chicago Park District Administration Building, Burnham
Park, sitcof next lustituteofAdmiuistrators, September 29-30.

bers in attendance were: Joseph Prendergast, executive sec-
retary, National Recreation Association; Charles Cranford,
president, and Jesse Reynolds, president-elect, American
Recreation Society; Dr. Martin Meyer, Council for the Ad-
vancement of HOSpital Recreation; Milo Christiansen, Fed-
eration of National Professional Organizations for Recirea-
tion; Vern Hernlund, Chicago Park District; Russell Perry,
Illinois Recreation Association; A. H. Pritzlaff, Bureau of
Health, Physical Education and Recreational Services, Chi-
cago Board of Education; and Willard B. Stone, Congress
secrctary.

Mr. Prendergast has been elected Congress chairman by

110

 

Jackson Park Beach is onc of Chicago’s older bcaehes, dating
back tothc 1893 Columbiau Exposition. It is slillvery popular.

the Policy Committee; Mr. Cranford, vice-chairman; and
Mr. Reynolds was appointh chairman of the Congress Pro-
gram Committee.

Planning Starts

The theme for the year will hc:
Recreation in an Expanding Leisure

This cmphasis lends itself to dynamic planning. Surely
recreation people will want to discuss ways of meeting the
challenge of the new leisure?

The annual Institute for Administrators, conductcd by
the Recrcation Personnel Service of the National Recreation
Association, will be hcld at the Congress again this ycar,
on Septcmher 29 and 30th, this time in the beautiful ad-
ministration building of the Chicago Park District, in Burn-
ham Park. It will be the fourth; and its topic will he plan-
ning for parks and recreation, with focus upon techniques
used by the Chicago Park District.

Chicago gave city planning in America great impetus
following the worlds Columbia Exposition of 1893. Daniel
Burnham was the architect for this great exposition, which
not only inspircd city planning but brought into being the
concept of city-widc park systems known then as “integrated
park systems."

Chicago’s parks have becn world famous, partly because
of Daniel Burnham, but a'so through the cxcellent design
skill of such landscape architects as Law and Olmstead, Jens
Jenscn, and others; such sculptors as Lorado Taft, Marcel
Loyau, St. Caudens, and other famous architccts. As every
recrcationist knows, from as far back as Jane Addam's day,
Chicago’s parks pioneered an extensive recreation program.

Congress Headquarters

The Hotel Morrison, (at Madison and Clark Streets, Chi-
cago 2) will he Congress headquarters, and rates theie are
as follows:

Single with bath —- S 8.00
Double with bath —- $12.00
Twin with bath —- $14.50

Make room reservations early!

RECREATION

Larry Hccb and James Peterson

How to

Build a
Golf Course
for $1500

Do YOU MEAN you have developed
this municipal golf course for only
11,500?”

“Well . . . yes and no. Yes, because
the actual city expenditure for labor,
materials, and some of the equipment
totaled 51,579. No, because volunteer
help accounted for a good share of the
labor, and certain other equipment was
transferred from a former municipal
course that had just been abandoned.”

The recreation superintendent of
Enlporia, Kansas, a city of fifteen thou-

   
  
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
   
   
 
  

sand, was showing the recreation facili-
ties of his community to the state rec-
reation consultant during one of his
routine visits. They were standing at
the first tee of a newly developed nine-
holc, sand-green municipal golf course,
laid out in U-shape on three sides of
the municipal airport runway. The
story carries suggestions adaptable for
other communities.

Because it could not renew the lease
for part of the area on which the orig-
inal golf course was located. the city
was forced to look elsewhere. A com-
mittee of golfers, who had been using
the municipal golf course, worked with
city and recreation commission ollicials
to this end.

The land on the periphery of the mu-
nicipal airport was the logical choice,
for several reasons: first the city already
owned the land and could readily pro-

MR. HEEB is the state recreation con-
snitant for Kansas and is on the staf} of
the Department of Health, Physical Ed-
ncatiori and Recreation, University of
Kansas. JAMES PETERSON is superintend-
nt of recreation in Etnport'a, Kansas.

ancu 1959

 

An aerial view of Emporia’s new nine-hole, sand-green golf
eourse, bent U-shaped around one end of the airport’s runway.

vide adequate parking; second, exist-
ing airport facilities could serve a dual
purpose in providing restrooms, re-
freshment lounge, storage space for
equipment, and registration of golfers
at the airport ollice. By offering these
facilities, the airport manager recog-
nized a potential service to the commu-
nity, in addition to promoting the mu-
nicipal airport.

The idea of using airport lands was
discussed at a recent recreation confer-
ence. The point emphasized was that
there is a good deal of land around the
average airport having no functional
aeronautical use but serving merely as
a buffer between the runways and adja-
cent privately owned property. Here
this principle was put into practical ap-
plication.

Citizen Interest

The city commission was willing to
donate the land for this use, from the
beginning, but wanted assurance that
there was citizen interest before pro-
ceeding with the project. A citizens com-
mittee asked the city commission to
designate a membership fee for the
proposed course and for authority to
‘sell’ advance family memberships. For-
ty-nine memberships were sold in a rel-
atively short period of time, and the
commission gave final approval to the
project. In addition, the approval of the
Civil Aeronautics Authority was need-
ed, since the airport was originally a
federal-aid project.

“And this meant cutting a lot of red
tape?”

“No, since the runways were already
separated from the proposed fairways

by a fence, the CAA gave its prompt
approval but indicated certain minor
qualifications and limitations. As a mat-
ter of fact, it encouraged the project
because it felt it would increase trallic
to the airport and thus generate more
interest in aviation.”

After this approval from the CAA
construction could begin. The citizens
committee had prepared a layout of the
new course and had it approved by the
golfers. Members of this committee
gave freely of their time in laying it
out, converting the former pasture into
fairways by rolling. cutting, and mark-
ing the land. The city park department
prepared the sand greens, did some nec-
essary grading, and thus the course was
ready for play in about ten days.

Sand greens instead of grass greens
were decided upon when the difference
in cost of construction was considered;
along with climatic and water condi~
lions, there was only one solution. The
committee still hopes for grass greens,
perhaps adding one or two a year if the
present course continues to be as popu-
lar as it is now.

It is amazing that the landscape on
the fringe of an airport runway would
present such a desirable variation for
a challenging golf course; but judging
by the number of people who play. this
was fifteen hundred dollars well spent.
The greens fees for the first thirty days
of Operation exceeded last season’s total
receipts at the abandoned course.

We hepe this story will interest city
ollicials, as well as park and recreation
personnel in many communities. that
also have idle land adjacent to their
airport runways. #

111

 

Charlotte Sheffield, “Miss U.S.A. of 1958,”

tries the courts at the Olympic Country
Club, Lakeside, California, and seems to
be satisfied with their surfacing properties.

TENNIS COURT

SURVEY

A RECENT nationwide survey of ten-
nis courts shows that resilient all-
weather asphalt-composition e o u r t 5
rank first in popularity in colleges and
110w constitute two-fifths of all the
courts in the United States.

The comprehensive study of 6,598
courts was made by the field engineer-
ing staff of American Bitulnuls and As-
phalt Company,“ which has had thirty
years’ experience in the design and con-
struetion of tennis courts. See chart for

 

"‘ For detailed information, write the company
at 320 Market Street, San Francisco 20, Calif-
ornia.

60
All-Weather
so Mphalt
Co-rnposition
40.37-
E 40
m —
U _
g so —
a. —
— ("MM
_ Concrete
2° —
—
_
lo —
—
—
—
o —

V
.m/

coverage. The survey did not cover
grass courts because of the relatively
small nationwide number.

The over-all survey analyzed 2,080
courts at 336 colleges; 3210 courts in
116 cities of over 30,000 population;
540 courts at 86 military posts; and
474 courts at 69 leading tennis clubs.

The percentage of preference for the
all-weather, asphalt-composition court
in other major categories was: military
posts, 65 per cent; tennis clubs, 39.7 per
cent; and cities of over 30,000, 34.3 per
cent. Other college conrt preferences
were: asphaltie concrete, 21.4 per cent;

TENNIS COURT SURVEY
Nationwide

Colleges-Cities over 30M Population

Military Posts —Tennis Clubs

Total courts 6.598 in
336 Colleges-69 Clubs
66 Military Posts—116 Cities

Asphaltit
Concrete (It,
2L0" 19.3%

  
 

Fest Drying
4.37-

TYPE OF COURT

112

 

clay, 20.2 per cent; cement concrete,

8.7 per cent; and fast drying, 5.5.
Popularity of the all-weather, asphalt-

eomposition court in all categories is

shown by the following quote in a recent
United States Lawn Tennis Association
Bulletin: “The preference for this type
of court is due to all-year availability
for play, coupled with very low main-
tenance expense and no daily upkeep

. resilience underfoot, .with a non-
abrasive surface that is easy on balls
and shoes . . . a fast game with uniform
medium low-hall bounce from a true-
plane surface.” The Bulletin adds:
“Another reason for so many courts of
this type is that the asphalt binders
used, such as Wearcoat, are very well
suited for the economical resurfacing of
old road types or concrete courts that
have deteriorated. . . . The asphalt-com-
position type of court should not be con-
fused with asphalt courts made of pav-
ing materials used in the construction of
roads.”

The survey reported other reasons for
the preference for the all-weather as-
phalt-composition court: “Players state
that because of its permanent finish in
black, red, green or two-tone, it pro-
vides something extra in ball visibility.”

Nationwide color preferences, ac-
cording to the survey, are: green, 46 per
cent; black, 36 per cent; red, 17 per
cent; and two-tone, 1 per cent. The two-
tone courts are relatively new and are

RECREATION

rowing fast in popularity. A park su-
perinte-ndent said aSphalt composition
“is free of surface defects, depressions,
and bird baths, meets the requirements
of modern tennis court designs, and is
usable almost immediately after a heavy
rain.”

The survey estimates there are over
ten thousand all-weather asphalt-com-
position courts in use nationally, indi-
cating mass acceptance by the average
player. Eight out of fifteen of recent na-
tional champions have trained on this
type of court.

Geographical preference differed
markedly: “The largest difference be-
tween the East, Middle West, and
South, compared to the Far West, is the
complete absence of clay or fast-drying
courts in the Far West. Conversely,
-a considerably higher proportion of

clay courts, 26 per cent, is found in the
East, Middle West, and SOuth. Only 8.8

 

.Mr’M—f- O . O

0 Let’s Take Pictures, a new thirteen-
minute educational color/sound film,
demonstrating the do’s and don’ts of
amateur photography, is available for
free group showings and television
viewing. The 16mm documentary is
aimed at teen-age photography enthusi-
asts, illustrates proper techniques for
taking both reflex and 35mm shots and
describes some of the more common

picture-takingproblems. Available from
the Riken Optical Industries, 521 Fifth
Avenue, New York 17.

0 An excellent new catalogue, avail-
able as a free service to teachers, also
contains many films with a recreation
application. More than seven hundred
class-tested filmstrips in fifteen curricu-
lum areas are listed; those of recrea-
tion interest might be found in the
Space Age features and in the science
and music groups. Write to The Jim
Handy Organization, 2821 East Grand
Boulevard, Detroit 11, on agency lctter-
sad, for your cepy.

ancu 1959

per cent of the courts in the East are
concrete courts, as against 33 per cent
in the West."

The all-weather, asphalt-composition
court design involves: (1) a four- to
five-inch penetrated stone macadam
base; (2) a one-and-a-half-inch leveling
course and a half-inch surface course,
both made up of a special asphaltic
emulsion tennis-court binder, coupled
with selected aggregates to give maxi-
mum durability and resilience. The mix
is sereeded cold into place over preset
steel forms resulting in very accurate
levels; (3) for finish, multiple squeegee
applications of factory-compounded Re-
surfacer and Wearcoat. If desired,
Special Colorcoat, that resists ball-
marking, may be applied as a final seal.
Pernianent lines are painted last, using
a special long-lasting paint.

The survey found that construction
costs varied, depending upon grading

 

    
 

. _.‘. "I..." -. a. . _ "an"...
:-: it -- h:|' . 

i ISTENING AND VIEWING

0 The New York University Film Li-
brary has issued a supplement to its 1958
catalogue, also containing many ales
useful to recreation personnel. Cepies
are available on request to educational
groups and other community organiza-
tions, from New York University Film
Library, 26 Washington Place, New
York 3.

0 Boats, Motors, and People and First

Aid (Parts I and II) are two new Red
Cross films. The first is devoted to Amer-
ica’s largest family participation sport,
and is of general educational value,
with an emphasis on safety. The run-
ning time of this 16mm sound. black-
and-white/eolor film is 13:30 minutes.
Prices are $13.50 for b/w; $35.50 for
color.

First Aid presents the basic lifesaving
and related techniques as taught in the
recently revised (September, 1957)
Standard First Aid Course. The two
reels of this 16mm, sound, black-and-
white/color film each run 14:24 min-

rcquired, size, color, number of courts
in the battery, labor rates, and accessi-
bility. The survey suggests a “range”
figure for a Laykold all-weather aSphalt-
composition court as $3,200 to $4,500,
which does not include fence or site
preparation. Fast-drying courts are
similar in cost; concrete runs about
twenty per cent higher.

Over thirty per cent of the asphaltic
concrete courts studied had to be re-
surfaced within a relatively short time,
with asphaltic composition material.
The survey also reported that clay
courts are becoming a thing of the past,
because current high labor rates makes
maintenance costs prohibitive. Cement
courts have failed to gain in pOpularity
because there are very few contractors
specializing in this type of work. Many
cement c0urts were improperly con-
structed and had to be reconstructed or
resurfaced at considerable cost. #

utes. Prices are $28.00 for b/ w; 380.00
for color. Loan prints for both films
are available in b/w only through local
Red Cross chapters.

0 The Humane Society of the United
States has just released a 54-frame color
filmstrip, with a recorded 21-minute
narration, designed for children be-
tween seven and fourteen. Entitled
People and Pets, the filmstrip tells the
story of two children who, with an adult,
gather information on the responsibili-
ties of animal owners. Facts about the
care of cats and dogs, anticruelty laws,
ordinances for the control of animals
and the purposes and program of hu-
mane societies and public pounds are
stressed.

Inspiration for People and Pets came
from requests for information the so-
ciety received from Girl Scouts through-
out the country who are earning their
Cat and Dog Proficiency Badges. It
was deveIOped in consultation with offi-
Cials of the Girl Scouts of the USA.
Booklets containiug photographs and
the text of the narration are provided
with People and Pets.

The filmstrip may be obtained from
HSUS,1111 E Street, N.W., Washington
4, D. C. There is a charge of one dollar

for postage and handling. #

113

 

F or further information regarding
any of these products, write directly
to the manufacturer. Please mention
that you saw it in RECREATION.

Jean Wachtel

 

0 The Playmaster Coaching Kits,
said by their manufacturer, The
Program Aids Company, to be the
only one of their kind in the world,
are now on the market as a visual
coaching and teaching aid for foot-
ball and basketball. Using these
kits, the coach can set up a real-life
play in a minute, with the demon-
stration team figures. The kits are
of lightweight steel construction,
with a combination magnetic and
chalk-writing surface. The pieces are stored in magnetic
steel trays housed in a steel case. Made of high-impact plas-
tic with strong magnetic backing, the figures are printed in
color for case of use. Playmastcr kits are used by West Point,
Annapolis, many universities, and also by YMCA’s, boys’
clubs, military installations, and recreation departments. A
free, full-color catalogue, illustrating this and many other
program aids, may he obtained by writing The Program

Aids Company, 550 Fifth Avenue, New York 36.

 

0 Because of the potential damage to the floors, rollcr skat-
ing, for the most part, has been discouraged in school and
recreation center gymnasiums. However, a recent survey
of school systems in towns of 50,000 to 100,000, revealed
that one out of four schools reported roller skating as an
activity. It can also be used for making money—from ad-
mission fees-—aftcr school hours, the income so derived more
than paying for the extra maintenance required and also
for other needed school facilities. Naturally, proper indoor
roller skates must be used. In one school in Wisconsin, it was
found that hard Northern maple flooring installed by the J.
W. Wells Lumber Company stood up unusually well; maple
is customary in gyms because of its resilience. For further
details, write Wells, Menominee, Michigan.

0 Seeing the score-
boards clearly at vari-
ous kinds of competi-
tions, such as tennis,
volleyball, basketball,
football, and others
can be made much
easier by using the
Spin-a-Test Score Indicator, 8 giant-sized device made of
high-impact styrene, with hands 15 inches long, for good
visibility. A five-inch diameter hub provides a recessed
knob for the scorekeeper so that he can move the hands as
the game progresses. A fixed counterbalance inside the
hub allows any position within 360° to be held. The indi-
cator is available in yellow or white. Write Spin-a-Test

Company, P.O. Box 241, Hermosa Beach, California.
114

 

 

0 A new heavy-duty rubber
matting has been developed by
Ace Rubber Products, made of
a special wear-resistant rubber
compound, reinforced with
chopped rayon and nylon fi-
bers. The Ace chen Sweep All-
Purpose Matting gives im-
proved floor protection, safety,
and noise reduction, and is easily cleaned—all important
features in recreation centers and gyrnnasiums. Originally
made on a special-order basis, it has thus been tested and is
highly recommended for locker rooms, fieldhouses, auditor-
ium floors, approaches to ice skating rinks, bowling alleys,
and_any other place where sturdy rubber matting would be

needed. Complete details can be had from the Ace Rubber
Products, Inc., Akron, Ohio.

 

0 Two news notes from MacGregor: the 1959 edition of its
fall and winter 80-pagc catalogue has been nationally dis-
tributed to colleges and institutions and the company has
introduced a new training aid, the MacCregor Spat. The
catalogue features large illustrations and descriptive copy
of a complete line of football and basketball equipment and
uniforms and also contains sections on boxing equipment,
volleyball, soccer, badminton, and miscellaneous sports
equipment. The weighted training
spat, developed by Ernie Briggs,
head trainer for Ohio State Uni-
versity, was designed to slip over
any type of training shoe. The com-
pany claims it is ideal for strength-
ening and conditioning leg muscles.
The removablc weight factor makes
the spat very flexible in use, and it
is this feature which, the company
also claims, makes it useful in postoperative and postinjury
conditioning of leg, knee, and ankle muscles. Other sports,
such as tennis and golf, have also found the training spat
an especially helpful conditioning device. For additional in-
formation, writc The MacGregor Company, 4861 Spring
Grove Avenue, Cincinnati 32, Ohio.

0 A handsome, clearly indexed new looseleaf floodlight
catalogue has been issued by the Crouse-Hinds Company,
lighting equipment manufacturers. Colorful and plastic cov-
ered, the catalogue includes four new sections as well as an
index and price list. Of particular use to recreation people
would be the sections on “How to Select Floodlights,”
“Heavy Duty Floodlights,” “Underwater Floodlights,”
“Floodlight Poles,” and “Installation Suggestions.” The
company invites you to use its application engineers for
your particular lighting problem. For complete details write
the Crouse-Hinds Company, Syracuse 1, New York.

RECREATION

 

 

 

HILARIOUS SQUARE DANCE PARTIES

wllh

PIUTE PETE
55 West 81h Sl., NYC—Algonquln 4-6606

INDEX OF ADVERTISERS
BASKETBALL

STEEL CHAIII
NETS

Page a: It: It:
All Metal TennIs Table Company   .. 117 :¥:;.1";:"I;,:“'rr 5...
American Cancer Society . . Inslde Back Cover
American Playground Device Company . 117
Audio Equipment Company. Inc. .. . Back Cover
Calitone Corporation    119
CasteIIo Fencing Equipment 81

Champlon Knitwear Company. Inc.
Inslde Front Cover

0 W": Luau-T
' R! " ‘tle- few

3 Years We“

 

outdoors or lndoore
Hun [restoring Joylro'e custom built

’ ALUMINUM MULTI-PURPOSE STANDARDS
NYLON as NETS 3. BALL CARRIERS
TETHERBALL POLES a. PADDLE SETS
ALUMINUM SHUFFLEBOARD SETS
ALUMINUM BATTING TEES

JAYFIO ATHLETIC SUPPLY CO.

New, Improved Golden Age Club Pin.
Now ln reol gold plate with tree ln
I. green lewelers' enornel. Solety catch.
 50¢ each. Including federol to: and
postage.

Minlrnun-I order to pins

Available only to authentic clubs.
JAMES SPENCER 8- CO.

   

 

 

 

 

, , “ACT 5'15 22 N. am Street Philadelphia 6. Po. pm. It. Box 1055. NEW LONDON. CONN.
Charles M. Graves OrganIzatIon    118 v __ _ ____* fp
Cosom Industries Inc. .  73
“3'5? Manufaciuring “WW 3‘ AMERICA‘S FINEST ATHLETIC BALLS
Dimco-Gray Company .   118 FOR EVERY AGE GROUP,
Exposition Press  118 PRICE OR SK|LL_
The leble Company 116 
Gold Medal Products Company 118 ' 
Gymnastic Supply Company . 118
Hillerich & Bradsby . ._ Center Insert I r GOES WITH THE GAME
James Spencer 8. Company --__. 115
Iayiro Athletic Supply Company 115 ' NEW YORK"

The MacGregor Company .- . Inside Back Cover
Mental Health -_ W“.   118
Monroe Company 115

National Catholic Camping Association
Inside Back Cover

CHICAGO II
Los ANGELES II

 

 

 

"3mm" 59”“ “WW ' -—- "H'- “3 sir; Watch for the special April Playground Issue. 13;
Nissen Trampoline Company 80
Peter Carver Associates .  80
Piute Pete .--____________- 115 , ‘
The Program AidsCompany 119  
RCA Victor Record Division _ 79 RATES: Words in regular type $.15 each DEADLINES: Copy must be received by
. I Words in boldface type $25 each the fifth of the month preceding date of
T- F- lwardz'k 8‘ compani - “6 '[ Minimum ad accepted  $3.00 the issue in which ad is desired.
VOII  _ __ _- “5 I- COPY: Type—or clearly print—your message and the address to which you wish

replies sent. Underline any words you want to appear in boldface type.

Send copy with remittance to:
RMRL’ITHIN Classified Advertising, 8 Wes-t Eighth Street, New York 11, VIM Y-nrk.

 
 

W

F0 L DIN G
BANQUET

TABLES

     
 
     
   
     
     
   
   
   
    
 
    
 
   
   
   
   
       
    
 

 

Oirocl lieu”,
Pricee I. oIecoun e
To Che-rerun. Clubs.
Lodges. Schoole
epd All Greenin-
hone.

Over 150.000 in-
stltutlnea nwn
end ttw m tern
Munro. Filling
ltanqut' Tobi

Write Tut Nu m .
)lIINRtIE .‘ilST
A3 Sll'EllSA R Y
('ATALIIG wt
Folding Toblr ,
l-’I Min: ('11 tit.
Truck. Slur“,
l'lztrtltt. ‘. F l.l
In: It: -rr._ We
Get our {He‘ll pm t,
quentlty 1* . ‘I tvrm

Monroe Co.. 181 Church St.. Colfax. Iowa

        
   
 

MARCII 1959

HELP WANTED
liccrcntion Th era pie t a
[or Calilornia State. hospi-
tals. Opportunity to plan
and conduct individual pa-
tient recreation as well as
special group activities: ex-
cellent equipment and in-
eilitiea available. Positions
open to college graduates
with major in recreation or
recreation therapy. No ex-
perience required to start
at $376. Promotion.- possi-
me to $614. Write hlale
l’et-onne'l Board. 801 ( api‘
to] \I‘nnre Sacramento.
C alilnrnia.

Folk Dance Lender St ant
ed for ennIIm-r position with
highlt creative sunth proj-
eet. Malt ur t- 11.4.». \rw
England. Ila-x 1140, Pitt“

TI. * ,. ' I "-Ign

field, \lassachuy'tta.

Openings ayailable for «tall
and supervisory recreation-
al therapists in Minnesota‘-
ntental healtli program. .‘ul
ar)‘ $3918 to $5616 depend-
ent on experience. Vacancy
{or rehabilitation tilt-lupin»
supervisor, $3400 to $6364.
Degree. plus amoral years
ul supenisor) expertener.
Personnel Director, Dept.
-"I l’uhlit \\ allure. II I ni
\F'I‘Slly .‘r’ttnur', 5!. pitlll 
Minn: .-‘ LI.
Director, full-time,
male. "err-11d Trilmtte
Fresh -\ir Fund ramp.
I'1mll lliflrio‘n Valim‘ {nt‘
mat-r Iv ll. rapt» 4-" it?

'

I In mm]. .11 Ii: appv- I ‘ it"

h... If g .

When mriting In our advertiser: please mention Rrrl': A: INC.

handu‘nppedl. Duvet ramp
in summer. balance. ol year.
intakeolorIc-w-up. recruit-
ment, ere. \l'ritr I lorry
\I‘Ir‘kolir, niret‘lI-r n” .tmp-
tag, 230 “out ll-t Street.
VFW \urlt. 3“, \ch \urlt.
Director, female. llcrnld
Tribune Fresh Air Fund
Cnmp. ( amp Sunny Ledge
l-ar girls I I-lti,rni"tr It} '2“
I-rnliun: Bl Lt- Menuhin
Intrr state Purl... \m Y. Irk,
«It I Ikt 'I'rtrati \\ rite:
1 HT} \liuI-wlt. Inc M-
lr':- w {IIKWr

Fencltcrs. Spun Lt‘- In
iim. and \ tl'll‘l I II .
twmp‘rah 'ILI l"..,..- l‘--t
ii :In. - ° ...'II .- I mun
st. 1: Bus. III t In ..It
 "I  is: 010‘”

 r PE. 1 rl

 

ll".

Install serve-self
Locker Checking

ELIMINATE LIABILITY

Pools and beaches everywhere are
installing Sentinel Coin-and-Key
Checking Systems. One big reason
for this trend is the freedom from
responsibility for patrons' clothing
and other personal possessions.

Patrons appreciate this service
and are happy to pay for it. No
standing in line. no worry about
valuables. no mixups...greater
privacy. too.

You eliminate checkroom payrolls
and at the same time have the
added income from the lockers . . .
enough to retire the investment in
a few months' operation.

Without obligation get the facts
now.Write for complete information.

. scanner.

COIN-AND-KEY
OPERATED CHECKING SYSTEMS

THE FLXIBLE COMPANY
LOUDONVILLE, omo

-_--—

Leas-ed FREE! ‘

Stop wosting time recording inventory costs,
honding out bolls and paying top prices for low
quolity bolls. Install this ottroctive, cost-cutting
TFT Toble Tennis Boll Meter NOWI

 

leosed FREE to responsible ogencies on $10.00 t

deposit subiect to refund. Trouble-free operotion
assured—return mochine for FREE repoir. Attroc-
tive hord wood ond metol cabinet—7V2 x 8% x 15
inches high. Easy to instoll. Holds 120 bolls—
dispenses eoch for 10¢. Choice of 3 grades of
top quolity bolls. Use profit to mointoin and re-
ploce paddles, nets, etc. No risk guorontee. Send
for free folder: "Stop Wasting Their Time."

T. f. TWARDZIK & (0.,

DKOIPOIITID V

SHENANDOAH PENNA.

 
 

     

_ A
11F.'I'.I|

116

 

 

Beatrice H. Hill

.\ -
,fl- 9

5.:

I"!

Latuottc Charities of New York City staged a six-session workshop last fall for nun-
adtuinistrators of nursing homes and homes for the aged in Connecticut, Pennsyl-
vania, New Jersey, and New York. A session on recreation was conducted by the NRA
Consulting Service on Recreation for the III and Handicapped (in full swing above).

+ The University of North Carolina
will play host to the Fourth Southern
Regional Institute on Recreation and
Hospitals, April 23-25. Seven organi-
zations, including the National Recrea-
tion Association, are cooperating with
the university. From preliminary in-
formation, it looks as if it is going to be
the best yet. For program details, write
Dr. Harold D. Meyer, director, Recrea-
tion Curriculum, University of North

Carolina, Chapel Hill.

+ Bill Cochrane, manager of the Au-
rora Bowlaway, New Hartford, New
York, last October started a special
bowling session for handicapped indi-
viduals. He now has a gI'OUp of nine
men and eight women. Do any of the
bowling alleys in your town provide this
kind of service? If you find one inter-
ested in starting a session for the handi-
capped, you might write Mr. Cochrane
for information on how he has set his
up. If you are interested in other sports
for the handicapped, also write to Ben-
jamin H. Lipton, director of the Joseph
Bulova School of Watchmaking, 40-24-
62nd Street, Woodside, New York. The
school sponsors “The National Wheel-
chair Cames," which include basketball,
racing, javelin, shotput, and others.

MRS. HILL is director of the NRA Con-

suiting Service on Recreation for the IN
and Handicapped.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

+ Many general hospitals are doing a
great deal today in the area of eye sur-
gery. During the short-term hospitaliza-
tion of the patient, there is a period
when he is temporarily blind, because
of the surgical procedure. The Ameri-
can Foundation for the Blind has
adapted such games as Scrabble, chess,
checkers and others for the blind or
If you have been
wanting to provide activity for these
patients and would like to know more
about these games write the foundation.

15 W est 16th Street, New York 11.

partially sighted.

+ Some articles of interest in recent
publications which recreation personnel
should read are: “Symposium on Pro-
gressive Patient Care,” Journal of the
A m e r i c a n Hospital Association.
1/16,’59. “Are Educational Standards
Too High in Paramedical Field?”

IA HA , 2/1/59; “Rehabilitating the I

Rehabilitation Concept,” JAHA,
12/16/58; “More than Child’s Playi”

The American Journal of Nursing,

12/58.

*i‘ The Connecticut Society for Crip-
pled Children and Adults has just de-

veloped a comprehensive report on
Swimming for the Physically Handicap-
ped ($.50) . Included are sections on in-
struction, teaching methods, program
activities, and other topics, including
the volunteer in this program. #

RECREATION

 

Magazine Articles

ADULT LEADERSHIP, December I958.
Eight Communities in Action, Katherine

Lackey.

   

 

, January I959.

Adult Education or Recreation? Bernard
E. Thorn.

CAMPING MAGAZINE, December I958.

Understanding Campers in Today’s Chang-
ing World, Dr. E. D. Greenwood.

What Do We Want in Leadership? (Part
ll), Martin Coid.

, January I959.

Should Camps Provide Special Training?

Cu-nnar Peterson and Norman IIaII.
EDUCATION DIGEST, December I958.

Can Creativity Be Developed? I. P. Gui!-
ford.

JOIIPER, December I958.

Cold Weather Fisherman, Ernest V. Biobm.

Winter Thrills and Skills, Lynn Vendien.

Ballroom Dancing—How Soon? Richard
C. KraIts.

————————-—, January I 959.

Three Years of Progress (AAHPER Out-
door Education Project), Julian IV.
Smith.

Planning for Play, Arthur E. Morr.

RECREATION MANAGEMENT, February I959.

The Recreation Dollar.

SPORTS ILLUSTRATED, January 26, I959.
A New Lease on Fitness.

Recordings

ENRICIIMENT RECORDS: TIIE BILL OE
RIGHTS and PATRch IlENRT’s FAMOUS
SPEECH (EAD 2); TIIE DECLARATION OF
INDEPENDENCE and LINCOLN’S GETTTSDURG
ADDRESS (EAD 1):, GEORGE WASHINGTON:
FRONTIER COLONEL and TIIE SANTA FE
TRAIL (ERL II6); THOMAS JEFFERSON,
FATIIER OE DEMOCRACY and TIIE VIKINGS
(ERL 115). All 12-inch 33 1/3 rpm. Each
$5.29 (to schools and libraries); $5.95 rc-
tail. Enrichment Materials, 246-5th Ave.,
New York l.

ADVENTURES IN SOUND AND SPACE: Blast Off;
Free Fall; Space Station; Moon Crash;
Space Storm: Mars and the Secret of the
Canals. RCA Victor LBY-1013; 331/3 rpn1.
$1.98.

Books & Pamphlets

Received

Arts and Crafts

 

COPPER ENAMELINC, Harold W. Watts. Rural
Research Institute, 500 5th AVe., New York
36. Pp. 28. Free.

llOBBY FUN, Eleanor Doan. Zondervan Puh-

lishing. 1415 Lake l)r., SE. Grand Rapids

6, Mich. Pp. 64. Paper. $1.00.
llow TO TAKE BETTER PICTURES OE YOUR

FAMILY, George and Cora Wright. Studio

MARCH 1959

 

Crowell, 432 4th the, New York 16. Pp. 98.
$3.98.

lT’s FUN TO BUILD MODERN FURNITURE,
Clifford K. Lush. Bruce Publishing, 400 N.
Broadway, Milwaukee 1. Pp. 111. $2.50.

MOSAIC FOR EVERYONE. Immaculate Heart
College, 5515 Franklin AVe., Los Angeles,
Calif. Unpaged. $3.00.

PAINTING HARDWOOD, Ilardboard Association,
205 W. Wacker Dr., Chicago 6. Pp. 8. Free.

PHOTO-01L COLORING FOR FUN OR PROFIT,
Lucile Robertson Marshall. John G. Marsh-
all, 167 N. 9th St., Brooklyn ll, Ncw York.
Pp. 152. $3.95.

SILK SCREEN TECHNIQUES, J. I. Biegeleiscn
and Max Arthur COllTI. Dover Publications,
920 Broadway, Ncw York 10. Pp. 187. $1.45.

TEACInNG OE ART IN SCIIOOLs, TIIE (Fourth
Revised Edition). Evelyn Gibbs. John De
Grafl, 3l E. 10th St., New York 3. Pp. 128.
$5.00.

YOU CAN WIIITTLE AND CARVE, Amanda Wat-
kins IIellum and Franklin ll. Gottshall.
Bruce Publishing, 400 N. Broadway, Mil-
waukee 1. Pp. 82. $3.00.

BaaRng

A-BOATING WE WILL GO (Cruising manual
for women), Enid Wold. McGraw-Hill, 330
W. 42nd St., New York 36. Pp. 335. $5.50.

ACCIDENTAL DEATHS INVOLVING SMALL BOATS,
Outboard Boating Club, 307 N. Michigan
Ave., Chicago 1. Pp. 30. Free.

BOATING FACILITIES FOR YOUR COMMUNITY.
Outboard Boating Club of America, 307 N.
Michigan Ave.. Chicago 1. Pp. 16. Free.

Ilow To BUILD 20 BOATS, Boris Lauer-Leon-
ardi, Editor. Arco Publishing, 480 Lexing-
ton AVe.. New York l7. Pp. I28. $2.00.

LOCAL, STATE, FEDERAL REGULATION OE BOAT-
ING AND RELATED AQUATIC SPORTS IN CAL-
IFORNIA. Documents Section, State Printing
Oflice, Sacramcnto l4, Calif. Pp. 50. Paper,
$1.00 f plus $.04 tax for Calif. addresses).

OBC FACILITIES FILE (small hoat launching
ramps, marinas, puhlic access). Outboard
Boating Club of Amcrica, 307 N. Michigan
Ave.. Chicago 1. Free.

Comping, Nature, Outdoor Sports

 

AMAZING BOOK or BIRDS, TIIE, IIilda Simon.
llart PIIhlishing, 74 5th Ave" New York ll.
Pp. 128. $3.75.

BIRCIIARD MUSIC SERIES: BOONS SEVEN
AND EIGHT. Karl D. Ernst, llartley D.
Snyder, and Alex ll. Zimmerman. Summy-
Birchard Publishing, 1834 Ridge AVe.,
Evanston, Ill. Each, pp. 256. $2.75 each.

BRIGADE TRAILS (Eighth Edition). Christian
Service Brigade, 542 S. Dearborn St., Chi-
cago 5. Pp. 225. Paper. $1.25.

EDIItLE WIIJJ PLANTS, Merrit Lyndon Fernald
and Alfred Charles Kinmy. Ilarper and
Bros, 49 E. 33rd St., New York 16. Pp. 452.
$6.00.

IIANDDOON or AUTO CAMPING and MOTORIST’S
GUIDE To PUBLIC CAMPGROUNDs, TIIE (Re-
vised Edition), George and Iris Wells.

Harper and Bros., 49 E. 33rd St., New York
16. Pp. 274. $3.50.

IIORSEMANSIIIP (1958 rcvision), Mrs. A. Wil-
liam Jasper. Boy Scouts of America, New
Brunswick, N. J. Pp. 68. $.25.

INDEX TO SNITS AND STUNTs. AN, Norma Olin
Ireland. F. W. Faxon. 91 Francis St., Boston
15. Pp. 348. $7.50.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

_ Supcrgnestgn,

Consgructlon and
P E RIO R M A N c E

   
 
 

far greater
strength and

SAFETY!

 

do»?
PLAYGROUND

AND SWIMMING
POOL EQUIPMENT

The wise choice of experienced
buyers for nearly hall a century.

5 WRITE FOR LITERATURE

s—_ z
_/

AMERICAN

PLAYGROUND DEVICE CO.

ANDERSON. INDIANA. U. S.A

 1 ., r, “" tire, _...

ll - l .

100% ALUMINUM
TABLE TENNIS TABLES

E N T l R E L Y CONSTRUCTED OF
HEAVY - DUTY ALUMINUM, exclu-
sively designed for intensive use in
all types of public recreation areas
located indoors and outdoors.

o OUTLASTS all other ping-pong
tables in public areas.

0 FOLDING and RIGID LEG
MODELS.

0 Standard size and ball-
bounce.

0 No maintenance or replace-
ment problems.

0 In 2 sections — 4‘ legs each
section. Easily separated into
2 tables for many other uses.

0 Attractively finished in green
nan-glare surface and silver
lines.

o NATIONALLY USED FOR MANY
YEARS in Colleges, Schools,
Clubs, Playgrounds, Gymna-

siums, etc. °

 

     
        
 
        
     
     
     
       
     
         
    
     

  

 

F or FaII Details, Trina

All Metal Tennis Table Co.
P.O. Box 142, Teaneck, N. J.

117

 L'GC. '—.’: -*,
\ I 5,5000 Fat/MD!!! Elli..." H3212. 1%: $113325le "‘5 f
I .

   

’SOLVE BUDGET PROBLEMS

 
  
   
   

 

 

   
      
    
 

   
 

 

   

 

 

‘ a - America Box 1378 Beverl Hills Calif - -
/ ’ 3 y T - ‘-
l  lus'l' In Pp. 175. $13,,  Shep from this FREE
I   LOOKING AT THE STARS, Michael W. Ovenden. S+relch your budgel 
.f-  T --""“T\ I / Philosophical Library, 15 E. 40th St., New ‘ and provide a. greoior
.. ° . ‘1 York 16. Pp. 192. $4.75. array of qualn‘y
P°p‘°’f‘ b°'°"9’ f" “E” '°"°°",°" "l' 101 WILDFLOWERS 0F SHENANDOAII NATIONAL ' s“li’ii’li”~",l°r Y‘E‘" _ 
“Up' n if" Ammwn in RF?" WM. on.d/ PARK, Grant and Wenonah Sharpe, Univer- 1. gymnas'um w'lh “"5
Blue. In heolthfully dolmous. Thorns , . I valueJadon catalog
. sIty of Washlngton Press, Seattle 5. Pp. 40. ‘ .
§£ Mi 9.9! m .W_'Q- P L as your guudo. _
\ . o. I / apcrv 31-00- , .. TRADE-IN YOUR OLD _
/: .- .. a / / OUTBOARD HANDLING. Outboard Boating Club {E EQUIPMENT on fines, as...
I / 9‘ o of America, 307 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago ' ; apporofus "enable. . r
//‘I / 1. Pp. 31. Free. : ‘ send p95} cord ,9; I, *7 I.
' I ‘4 .
 ’/ PLANETS AND SPACE TRAVEL, Sanford Slm- ‘ m _ _F_ _  -« é. ‘
.. _v—0—.I\r~ mons. Hart Publishing, 74 5th Ave., New (1,.» n, I J u ' j
' u '  York 11. Pp. 128. Paper, $1.00. I i h
\, SAILING: STARTING TO SAIL, and SAILING   CO.
\ \ DINGIIIEs, John Fisher; SAILING YACIITS, 250 Warm St. San Pedra.cI.it
‘ WHIZ BANG Adlard Coles and Douglas Phillips-Birt.
Popcorn machine John De Grail, 31 E. 10th St., New York 3. MIWIIHIWIIII "mmIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIInIIIIIImmIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIRRIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
I 5265 00 Po U m $25 00 in mm Each, pp, 64, paper, 3125 each IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIH IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIuIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIII
armour. 'Fu'uy gzoznleed ,0, o yew. SARGENT GUIDE TO SUMMER CAMPS AND SUM-  M.   v
Write for information on this ood other MER SCIIOOLS, TIIE. Porter Sargent, 11 Bea- pmk 3, Recreation Specialists
:“MM’v "0’" 5199-00 '° 5119\5'00'\. eon St., Boston 8. Pp. 160. Papcr, $2.20.
I! ‘ \ k S o A G M M S . h H 1275 Spring St., N.W., Allonto 9, Go.
/ \ . CIENCE LBUM, era I . traIg t. art , ,
won for complete catalog and Informo- " Publishing 74 5th Ave. New York 11. Pp. “m” ' B"""'"9‘ ' P°°" ' P°"‘ P'°"‘
tion on drink dispensers, hol dog machines, ' , WWW "WWWMHNMIM
cotton candy and a. bolls. In Gold Modol 319- $1.75- IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
Rolf you to ltlhglhugo "freshman! Proiflls\ SING WITII ACTION, Rita Kiltz and Hazel Nell.
“29,2: cm 0 ° mm “my "mm on Schmitt, Hall and McCreary, Minneapolis.

I o * 80- F t WRITERS
\ \ SWIMMING AND DII'ING(Third Edition),David  o

' A. Armbruster, Sr., Robert H. Allen, and seeking a book publisher

‘5 ‘ GOLD MEDAL PRODUCTS CO. j Bruce Harlan' C'  MOSby’ 3207 wasmng' Two factpfilled. illustrated brochures tell how
313 E THIRD CINCINNATI 2 OHIO I ' [on BlVd-a Si- Lou's  Pp- 373- 55-00- 'tO Publish your book. 89.1: 40% royalties. na-
' ' ‘ TENNIS FOR BEGINNERS, Bill and Chet Mnr— aggslllc‘igiggguzmotion-

:' _.__./""'_—_ _ H‘““L’"“ * '"' "1 “'11, phy. Ronald Press, 15 E. 26th St., New York p ' p R'3

 

" E 0 iii :1 . .
10. pp. 116. 3295. xp 5 o Press / 386 4011 Av... N Y 15

WILDI-‘LOWERS 0F TIIE SIERRA, compiled by
Douglass llubbard. Yosemite Natural llis- 

 

 

tory Association, Yosemite National Park,
Calif. Pp. 23. Free.

Sports I

I
IMPROVE YOUR SPORT SERIES: TRAMP- I r:~{31i‘
OLINING, pp. 40, APPARATUS ACTIVITIES (for "‘6
boys and men), pp. 60, ADVANCED TUM- I
RLING, pp. 40, all by Newt Loken; CYMNAS- .
TICS (for girls and women). P11. 48, Erna I
Wachtel and Newt Loken. Athletic Insti-

tute. 209 S. State St., Chicago 4. $.50 each. I n n I." o n ll '-

INSTRUCTIONS TO YOUNG FENCERs, Gillian I '5?le Camper/m1 '
Sheen. Sportshelf, Box 631, New Rochelle, 370 mm MANUEUE: Win DU UC. WIS.

-_ N. Y. Pp. 93. $3.75. ‘ - - - - - - -
are; «so, -t

J [:00 INSTRUCTOR, THE, M. C. Harvey. Emer-
son Books, 251 W. 19th St., New York 11.

' - Pp. 121. $2.50.
 MODERN BASKETBALL, A. L. Colbeek. Sport-

slIelf, Box 634, New Rochelle, N. Y. Pp. 206.

Fun For Everyone! “75'

OFFENSIVE FOOTBALL, Jordan Olivar. Ronald

 

     
   

Write for oukn :

From 8 {.0 so he” is eicRing recr°a_ Press, 15 E. 26th St.,.New York 10. Pp. 99.

{ion for all ages . . . lean enioymenf 32-95-

for players and spaclaiors. TEACII YOURSELF SELF-DEFENSE, Erie Dominy.

Rugged Dimco Freoelid. Shum°_ Sportshelf, Box 634, New Rochelle, N. Y.

board sols are available for borh our- Pp' 191* $200-

door and indoor inmlloiion, TOUCH FOOTBALL, John V. Crombaeh. Ronald

Easy {9 Insfal] _ . . low in upkeep] Press, 15 E. 26th St., New York 10. Pp. 125.
$2.95.

Write today for colorfrd folder, "Let‘:

Y
p1,, Sbgggeb“, in (WWI-"kg 6mm VOLLEYBALL. Sportshelf, Box 634, New Ro-

. - ehelle, N. Y. Pp. 32. Paper, $.75.
Exgxxzmmo” on my" Mom and WINTER SPORTS AND OUTING ACTIVITIES GUIDE. t
Division for Girls and Women’s Sports, Merltal Health WEEk
DIMCO-GRAY COMPANY 1201-16th St., N. W. Washington 6, D. c. .
205 EAST SIXTH STREET WPP- 1?3-H$-75: S h H P0 B 631 Aprll 25 — May 2
DAYTON 2’ OHIO OMEN S OChEY. ports e , . . ox ,

 

, New Rochelle, N. Y. Pp. 40. Paper, $.75.

 

118 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. RECREATION

 

BOOKS RELATED TO CAMPING

Handbook of Camp Maintenance,
Ian A. Nathans. Association Press,

291 Broadway, New York 7. Pp. 240
(in hard-cover loose-leaf notebook}.

7.95.

This is a loose-leaf notebook for camp
lireetors or head counselors, to which
ages can be added at will. Its present
ontents are designed to help in the plan-
ing of camp administration, and the
neeessful supervision of maintenance.

hey cover weekly, monthly, and win-

er chores; emergency tasks; training
f maintenance staff; waterfront rc-
ponsibilities; and so on. It also con-
ains up-to-the-minutc information on
ncthods and products involved in camp

aintcnance. Alert camp directors
arrnot afford to overlook it.

Decentralized Camping, Lois Good-

ich. Association Press, 29] Broadway,
ew York 7. Pp. 256. $4'.75.

Hot-oIl-the-press, this is one of the
st how-to-books on decentralized
sniping in particular, counselor train-
ig in general, to come out in a long
ime. Its content is primarily concerned
'ith how to carry out decentralized
amping, which is largely a matter of
ntimate camper-stall relationships,
ounselor training, interviewing of
mpers and counselors, individual
illd development through rewarding
mp experiences, program, group liv-
g. nutrition and health, day-by-day
robiems. Discussion of shelters, build-
igs, budgets, and maintenance peculiar
o decentralized camping take up only
he last quarter of the book. Excellent!
See, “Age-Level Characteristics of the
amper,” by Lois Goodrich, page 

   
    
  
 
   
  
  
   
   
    
  
 
 

New YMCA Aquatic Work Book,
arold T. Friermoad, Editor. Associa-
'on Press, 291 Broadway, New York 7.
even units in hard-cover loose-leaf

inder, $11.50.

This book also is a loose-leaf note-
ok for 81/3”-by-ll” sheets, as in
Iandbook 0/ Comp Maintenance. It is
guide to “creative administration of
- national YMCA aquatie program,”

    
    
 

ancu 1959

Carer-ng the Leisure-time Field

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

Scheduling
Promotion

Administration

but contains ideas for the aquatic su-
pervisor of any camp or organization.
Dillerent campaigns, procedures, and
program techniques are given in detail.

 

Program Aids

NOTHING—But nothing builds better Pro-
grams and more participation thon Pro-
gram Aids. They are widely endorsed and
hailed as unique and unparalleled or-
ganization and promotion tools.

0 ERASO' Posters 8. Charts

e SPOT AWARDS' Trophies 8. Cups

0 PLAYMASTER' Coaching Aids

0 SCORE-KING“ Magnetic Scoreboard
O RECORD-MASTER"‘HeII-eI-Feme” Displays
0 Executive Scheduling Kits
"capsule". WRITE FOR CATALOG TO —

THE PROGRAM AIDS 00., INC.

Dept. R, 550 5th Ave.. N. Y. 36, N. Y

Fee Charging in Social Agency Resi—
dent Carnps. Community Council of
Greater New York, 44 East 23rd Street,
New York 10. Pp. 33. Mimeagraphed,
$1.25.

Because of the increasing demand for
camping and, therefore, the resulting in-
crease in camps themselves, this study
deals with a field of intense interest. As
has happened in earlier studies of fee
charging policies and practices, it re-
veals a wide range of existing charges
and instances of no charges at all. J.
Donald Kingsley, executive director of
the council, comments, “The develop-
ment of a community-wide standard of
fee charging practices among resident
summer camps could achieve a coordi-
nated approach to the full utilization of
this potential source of income and at
the same time eliminate inequalities in
the fees paid by campers’ parents in
similar economic circumstances.” A
preliminary version of this study was
considered at the Annual Camping Con-
ference at Arden House, November,
1958, and discussed by 139 representa-
tives of the voluntary agencies oper-
ating summer camps. It was decided
there that the time had come for a re-
consideration of this subject.

at: it it

 

complete SOURd 5’15le

DESIGNED FOR
I PLAYGROUND O GYMNASIUM
O HOSPITAL RECREATION
I RHYTHM ACTIVITIES

Aquatics for the Handicapped, Bar-
bara Sterling. Hoffman, Harris, 425
Fourth Avenue, New York 16. Paper,
$1.50.

This twenty-page pamphlet is a re-
print of a number of articles in Swim-
ming Pool Age from October, 1957,
through April, 1958. It is of impor-
tance to any recreation department, pri-
vate, or civic agency now conducting or
planning to conduct any type of swim-
ming program for the handicapped.

The articles cover a wide range of in-
formation, ineiuding material on such
handicaps as cerebral palsy, polio, nerve
and birth injuries, the blind, the deaf”
and others. Program planning, per-I

    
    

i
\V

by ealifone

The PROMENADE (25V-8A) 4-speed 25-watt
amplifier, variable from 16 to M RPM...two 12"
extended range speakers and steel sound unit
in one easily carried case...Sprin¢ Fleet Sus-
pension to eliminate groove lumping...$ound far

3500 persons. Prices from $49.95 plus excise tax.
----------------

Write DEPT. R-l

califone

CORPORATION
1041 NO. SYCAMOIE AVE.
HOLLYWOOD 38, CALIF.

119

sonnel, equipment, and objectives are
also included. Based upon the YWCA
program for the physically handicapped
in Spokane, Washington, this material
will save a great deal of time and energy
used in trial-and-error methods, and
will provide a much-needed incentive
for more programs of this sort.

Cities in the Motor Age, Wilfred
Owen. Viking Press, 625 Madison
Avenue, New York 22. Pp. I76. $3.95.

This is a valuable addition to the
growing literature on today’s urban
problems. Wilfred Owen, senior staff
member of the Brookings Institution,
records discussions and solutions pro-
posed at a recent conference when fifty-
five authorities in various fields relating
to automobile transportation and city
planning met to consider thc complexi-
ties resulting from thc rapid expansion
of cities and the national highway pro-
gram.

References to the importance of open
spaces for recreation and other uses
appear throughout the book. For ex-
ample, it is pointed out that eventually
recreation! travel rather than the jour-
ney to work may become the dominant
factor determining highway capacity
requirements.

“Federal, statc, and local govcrn-
ments all need to engage in extensive
land-acquisition programs in order to
provide bquer areas of green space
around cities and to furnish the recre-
ation area that a nation, with more and
more leisure time, will need. . . . The
danger is that there will be neither
scenic attractions nor recreational fa-
cilities for an urban population that
may some day have time to walk and
play and smell the flowers.”

Reference is made to the “new high-
way robbery” resulting from the taking
of park and recreation land for high-
ways. Mr. Owen asserts that where
valuable and hard-earned recreation
areas need to be taken for roads there
should be a balancing off by the acqui-
sition of other lands for new parks.
“Compensgtion ought to be paid to
counties and cities to make possible the
replacement of land lost to park use by
the construction of other public facili-
ties.” It is pointed out, nevertheless,
that the automobile and the road often
make possible the fullest enjoyment of
park areas.

“We need to work out a positive re-
lationship for recreation purposes be-
tween planned parkways and planned
highways in order to take advantage of
both.” It is further emphasized that
relocation of existing parks may be de-
sirable because of population shifts. “It
is quite possible that new recreation

120

 

EDISON AWARDS

Award winners in the annual
Thomas Alva Edison Foundation
mass-media awards program are
determined by vote of sixty-two
national civic-welfare organiza-
tions, with an aggregate member-
ship of over thirty million. The
1958 awards for children’s books
went to:

Science in Your Own Back-

'ard by Elizabeth K. Cooper
(Harcourt Brace).
Elements of the Universe by

Glenn T. Seaborg and Evans
G. Valens (Dutton and Co.) .

That Dunbar Boy by Jean
Gould (Dodd, Mead and
Co.).

The Americans by Harold Coy

(Little, Brown and Co.) .— i

 

spaces developed close to growing cen-
ters of p0pulation might be more useful
than established park areas no longer
serving their purpose.”

All who are concerned with the prob-
lems resulting from urban sprawl and
accelerated highway development will
read this hook with interest and profit.
—Ceorge Butler, NRA Research De-

partm ent.

Body Building, Martin S. Dworkin.
Rutledge Books, 551 Fifth Avenue,

New York 17. Pp. 64. $.35 ($.20 each
for 12 or more copies) .

This paperback was published for
classroom use, and the photographic il-
lustrations in it are of hoys from Wan-
tagh High School, Wantagh. New York.
It is written in simple, graphic style and
gives very eomprehensivc instructions
for exercising with weights, showing
how weights can be used to bring the
body to best physical condition, so im-
portant in becoming proficient in any
sport. Careful attention is given to cor-
rect techniques and safety.

For a leader of boys, interested in
body building, this booklet can form a
useful guide for progressive steps in
planning exercises. Do note the price
for twelve or more copies—each boy
would like his own. \Vhy not try this
type of activity in your youth fitness
program?

Puppet Do-lt-Yourself Book, Lois H.
Pratt. Exposition Press, 386 Fourth
Avenue, New York 16. Pp. 75. $3.00.

This book is exactly what its title im-
plies—a simple manual for beginners.
With it as a guide, there’s no reason
why your playground program can’t be
rich with crafts and drama, all based on
the fun of making and using puppets.

It’s informal, infectiously enthusias- I
tic, and the instructions are so organized
that a leader can grow progressively in
creative skill from simple puppets, with
apple or other improvised heads, to
more complicated puppets, with model-
ed heads. This organization is a good
one, because it permits a leader to use
puppets as a onetime craft or as a con-
tinued program.

Instructions, including instructions
for the modeled heads, are clear and
practical. The illustrations by Carol
Batdorf are delightful. The book has

three good short puppet plays.

PROGRAM RESOURCES

0 Any science clubs in your depart-
ment? Or boys and girls interested in
the world of today? The Smithsonian
Institution, Washington 25, D.C., has
published a beautiful booklet with full-
color photographs called Adventures in
Science at the Smithsonian. It is twen-
ty-five cents. '

o The educational section of the
Creole Petroleum Corporation, 1230
Avenue of the Americas, New York
20, New York, has issued a very useful I
little booklet called Latin American
Studies, a guide to resource materials
on our neighbors to the south. In it are
listed books, both fiction and nonfic-
tion, pamphlets, films and filmstrips,
magazine articles, and so on, for each
country. Much of the listed material
is free or inexpensivefThis booklet is
a useful source when you’re planning
a carnival, social, festival, armchair
travel program, or other program
where you need authentic information.

Single copies are free. (Please mention
RECREATION.)

o The audio-visual service of the East-
man Kodak Company outlines the pro-
gram material, helpful literature, and
counseling service the company offers
to photography groups in its pamphlet
Kodak School and Club Services
(1958-59). Address is 343 State Street,
Rochester 4, New York.

0 If you don’t have them already, be
sure to write to Rural Research Insti-
tute, Inc., 500 Fifth Avenue, New York
City 36, for copies of its excellent book-
lets, especially A Project in Arts and
Crafts, by Howard W. Watts. This
booklet describes easy methods for
potato, felt, leaf and spatter painting,
soap carving, candlemaking, finger
painting, string painting, and glass
etching—all projects suitable for the
seven- to twelve-year-old-set.

The organization is nonprofit, and
this booklet is free, as are Woodwork-
ing for Beginners, 10 Easy Woodwork-
ing Projects, Metalcraft, and several

others. #

RECREATION

“The Choice of Those
Who Play The Game”

   
 
     

A

you
CAmPT
turn
your
back
I

Cancer strikes
two families out
of every three.

---—’—+-----

 

-..._...__.._........_+--_._...._._.....+..-

    

Guard your family

. . .-fight cancer with I .' .v l
a checkup and Look to MocGregor first for the finest in oil spa-15 equipment.

l a check_ _ Joday! . The MocGregor Co. - Cincinnati 32, Ohio
FOOTBALL - BASEBALL - BASKETBALL - GOLF - TENNIS

 

AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY

-—— for a “time of your life" vacation for yourself, a younger

brother or sister, or your child

—— as a good place to work for the summer

THEN YOU NEED--

The NCCA

1959 DIRECTORY OF CATHOLIC CAMPS

It lists the names and addresses of all Catholic resident and

day camps in the United States. Facilities, dates and costs are

listed to give you a complete picture of what each camp offers.

for your directory send $1.00 to

NATIONAL CATHOLIC CAMPING ASSOCIATION
1312 Massachusetts Ave., N.W. Washington 5, D. C.

 

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention thnnrrox.

  
     
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
    

Kids out on the lake —— a flash
storm springs up-don't scream
your lungs out uselesst - reach
tor your Hailer and warn them
instantly.

   

At pools and beaches. tor instruc-
tors and tile guards-it takes the
2000 times voice amplilication
of "IF" Hailer to cut thrOugh the
high noise level.

 

Hailer saves your voice. dozens
at times a day. at sports event.

Make yourself HEARD! . . . without  Pe'g‘mnd‘J‘WW "m-
KILLING your voice. Just point Audio ' _
Hailer at the person or group you need to
reach. Instantly, it projects your message
. . . half-a-niile or more away. Yet your
Hailer is a completely self-contained , com-
pact, one-hand unit. New “TP” (transis-
tor-powered) model weighs only 5% lbs,
runs on standard flmhlight cells. For com-
plete specifications. or field demonstration,
mail coupon below. Audio Equipment Co.,
Inc., Port \Vashington, N. Y.

 

persons-you can use Hailer any-
where in your grounds-NO ex‘
ternal power source needed.

For wide coverage of 2 Acres. I
large meets and gatherings — u:
the compact 2| Watt "IF" Port
Clliel, with hand-mike.

r—— — — — — — — — ——.—_—_-

New "1'?" AUDIO HAILER
AUDIO EQUIPMENT CO., Inc., Port Washington, N.‘

uses 4 latest-type power

transistors. Patented "onti- .
feed-back" design over- a”: Send brochure, with prices on “TP” Audio Haller.

|
|
comes "howl" or "squeol". | {2 Have your local dealer make demonstration.
C05“ ‘0‘ '6” "1°" W 9°" 1 : Send details on Porta-Chiel', 20 “'att portable P. A.
l
l
l
I

toble voice equipment of
similor power.

 

