 

l' I'

FOR SUPERIOR DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION RUGGED! MOBILE: VERSA TILE!

AND PERFORMANCE . . . FAR GREATER
STRENGTH . . . UNEQUALLED SAFETY. . .

MIHIIIAN
 #pp/Iowd

PARK, PICNIC,
PLAYGROUND
AND SWIMMING

POOL EQUIPMENT efr‘o—r

    
 

Since I9II the finest equipment built,
. backed by lifetime guarantee against
T r" defective materials and construction
I specified by leading recreational

autitarities for almost half a century. '   N  

send for New ca'alog Superior's dent-resistant Formium playing surface, on
with. for Folder  --—-' "m . tubular steel legs and all-steel frame, give you many

On AMERICAN'S  years of maintenance-free use. Optional ROLLAWAY
JIM “"5350” A  and FOLDAWAY features conserve space, simplify

‘ everyday floor arrangement and cleaning.
PLAYGROUND DEVICE C0.

ANDERSON, INDIANA, U.S.A.

. ‘ I'

  
 

 

lll-‘E'I'IME
Aluminum
D I V I N G

B O A R D
worms FINEST

OFFICIAL BOARD

 

NEWI Table Tennis Sets of high-impact moulded
plastic thot plays like waadl Write for catalog.

SUPERIOR INDUSTRIES CORP., 520 Caster Street, New York 59, N. Y.

 

Dress Up Your Becrea tion Program
with

T-SHIRTS - SWEAT SHIRTS - JACKETS

“CHAMPION

KNITWEAB COMPANY, INC.

Low Cost, Top Value, Prompt Delivery

We carry a full size and color range for all team sports and activities, plus a full line
of leader sportswear.

Let Us Make You a Free Sample T-Shirt‘ with
Your Own Recreation Program Design or Insignia

CHAMPION KNITWEAR CO., INC.
115 COLLEGE AVENUE ROCHESTER 7. NEW YORK

0 We are Manufacturers And Sell Dlrect 0 Write for Free Sportswear Catalogue

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

      
   

 
    
 
 

l’----——----------‘ll

' "A GREAT '

I I

I I

' NEW WAY T0 :

: I
60 DIT '

I I

I ' H i

' ATHLETES ‘

I ' \‘

: ms LLOYD HOLM \

I Superintendent of Elementary Physical

I Education, St. louis Pork Public

I Schools, St. lauis Park, Minn.

\

“And Wonderful Fun for
Boys and Girls of All Ages!”

with the H  

When young athletes at St. Louis Park schools need conditioning,
Lloyd Holm doesn‘t send them out to trudge around and around a

track in boredom. He passes out an armful of the new SAFE-T-
MALLETS and a Fun Ball. In an instant, the boys are running

eagerly. With mallets swinging, they sock the ball like polo players;
try to knock it into their opponents’ goal.

' With this fast, competitive action, they soon improve their wind
. . . trim off any excess poundage . . . sharpen up their reHexes and
timing. They run and keep running, because they have a whale ofa

' lot of fun with this new game. Ideal for playing exciting, new,

version of field hockey, polo, soccer, and other goal games.

I another SAFE -'I'- PLAY PRODUCT

Like all other Cosom Safe-T-Play Products, (Scoop, Fun Ball,

Safe-T-Bat, Bowlite, etc.) the 31" SAFE-T-MALLET is tough
enough for long, hard scrimmages—yet so light (just 6 oz.) and

I l resilient, even first graders use it for free play with no chance of
injuries.
ASK YOUR
t FUN BALL - LITTLE FUN BALL . SCOOP BALL . SAFE-T-BAT . PEE GEE BEE - BOWLITE SCHOOL SUPP"

DEALER
t .
0090M
. 0030 M “SAFE-THAN INDUSTRIES, INC. oozowmmawo.
. °°DUG‘6 MINNEAPOLIS 16,MINN.

PR”. 1959 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 121

 

the pe'rfe'cf PORTABLE GOLF PRACTICE CAGE

For RECREATION CENTERS—CAMPS—Y's—SCHOOLS

Safe and Lightweight
Professional Size: 9'x9'xI2'

INCLUDES

0 NYLON CAG

0 ADJUSTABL
POLES

0 TARGET

0 TEE-OFF MAT

 

Great indoors and out

$250.00 VALUE

DIRECT FROM FACTORY TO YOU ONLY $9950 COLLECT

 

 

This is the way to help the kids improve their Indoors when the weather becomes real trouble-
golf. They can hit away to their heart’s content. some.
They can measure their accuracy. They can im- And for you in camps—or schools—or Y’s, a
prove their serving. They can learn and laugh terrific plus value, a low, low cost method for
at the same time. giving instruction to your campers, members
Outdoors when the sun is streaming down. and students, while they have loads of fun.
I 201 Charing Cross —-
 MONROE SALES INC. Lynbmk’ New York
I .
Take advantage of this offer. Please ship me  GOLF PRACTICE CAGE(S) {or
The warmer weather is on the way— 399-50 6‘30"- Express Co’lect-
the golf urge is moving in. Make sure - NAME ............................................................................................. ..
your  Practice Cage is  you  ............................................................................................. ..
in time for the big season ahead! ORGANIZATION .......................................................................... ..
ADDRESS ...................................................................................... ..

g g g I o o I O I I o o a a I I o o o o o I o I I I O O O o o n o o o n n o o o a I O o I I o o o O o I I O I O I o I I o o o o I I a I I n o o o o o o I I o o o o I I o I o o o o o o o o o I o I o I a I O o o o.

122 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. RECREATIOI

APRIL 1959

   

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

 
 
  
  
 
  
   
  
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
   
   
  
   
 
  
 
  
  
     
 
 
   
 
 
  

 

 

Editor in Chief, Josnrn Pansoaaonsr T , . T r ‘
Editor, Donormr Dommsos C O 1‘ I E 1‘ I S
Assistant to the Editor, Jam WACIITEI.
Business Manager, RALPH C. Mounts GENERAL FEATURES
_ A5596?“ FD'TORS Shall Children, Too, iic Fl‘t'l‘? (Editorial)
Recreation Administration, Gnoncn Bit-rum mum": A, Lam. 12.;
Program Activities, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN "will"! rm. mm, o _ o o _ o _ _ _ _ _ 130
v0!“ LIL Price 50 Cents N0. 4 Saddle City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Florence Van Eek llirklicnd I32
Reercntion Profession in Ontario . . . . . . . . Ross C. Ratliic 136
the Cover I959Congress.......... . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . .  137
. LIMBING, Can it jungle gym or monkey hm-S m- Too Much C0“l[)18(‘0h(‘}' . . . About Our Children’s Fitness
'hat-you-will. these sturdy bars are evocative of 10"" .l- Consltnlw I38
133'El'0mld5 all" (‘lliltHIOOtL e"°")‘“'l|t"'°- T0 "'15 A Nntural Alliuit)‘ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 148

hild, silhouetted against the bright spring sky, it
. iglit he a ship’s rigging. tree, fortress—its poten-
' l limited only by his imagination. Photo: enur-
‘y, Steelirays.

xt Moth ADMINISTRATION

ocause May has been designated as National Sen- \Vh , R .H r I . . ~. 9
r Citizens" Month. Reelimnox will carry an em- 0 5 “31mm” ’ e "r Lem ""h'p "' bporls'

1 I
asis oa recreation for this age group. Among the an Runner” 1‘10
" ticles. for instance. “Seniors Give Service” will Prekindergarten Playgrounds . . . . . . . . . . . . A. J. Scliara 141

Recreation for an Allliient Society—A Review
Harold l-V. II"iNiaIua 153

m” the °§"‘“‘“‘.""g pmgmmin M9'.“£°'.',“"="* A '3" Local Developments . . . . . . . . Compiled lw Elrira Delanr 147
tuna. and The thnrhaii Senior Citizen Will dis- , _ I ' ' _
. "I how, through prone,- |em|ershilh the helm" can Advance 1 launiug Is the Answer . . . . . . Jerry Ratlcrstorf 131

helped to become a functioning member of his Buy That Lock Now . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . C. 0. Itrmcn 154
aimuuity as well as a part of its social life. Iui-

rtant among other articles will he an address by
auraace S. Rockefeller. “Meeting Our Future Rec- PROGRARI

lion Needs,” in which he gives details of the -

3115 0f the National Ollldoor Recrealio" RPSOIIN'PS Our Playgrounds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Lilly Ruth "arisen 134
wiew Commission. The contribution which hi- . . '

. . I ) ( T I I I I I I I I I I

ycling can make to physical fitness, and our enr- (‘10! ‘ "I'm": for [wonders "do" M ’f‘mm‘or 144
it. land-for-recreation dileainia are topics discuss. Teen (.ounselor Training . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Lois (Jim-mud 152

'“ further “""lcs 0" “'3” a"Merl- Special EVCHIS for the Junior Miss . . . . . . . . . Gene Hecr 156

_. 9 Credits Students Conduet Summer Study . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 157
go 133, (LA. Tagney. Oakland. California; 135, Shooting for the Moon . . . . . . . . . . . Harold M. lleumcitz 159
O O . O . , ‘ r .

m (Eluwgo,Tr,'b""e‘ 1,40" W'H'm‘al‘me I ark & The Best W ay Is with n Relay . . . . . . . . . . . Barbara Lore 160
ccreation District. Springfield, Oregon; 145. o , , _

ette, Boston; 156-7, W.R. Barnett, Iliuitington "3”"? ‘0J0 Tr'cks - i - ° - - - - - ° ‘ i - - - - - - - - - ° ° ° ° ° - - - - - I62

; 1:, California; 160., Doris T. Nieh. Eaglewood,
w Jersey.

REG ULA I! FEATUR ES

  
    
       
   
   
   
         
       
   
   
    
     
   

RECREATION is publish-ed monthly “cap: July and Things You Should Know . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 126

August by the National Recreation Association. a service Lc

      8  I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
’esrigt met. cw or . ew or.lsoo I Y .

g!an psubgic yboraricsdngois inducgaindrhc Riff", Reporter 3 hotehook . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 142
I s. u scripuons . a year. an in an or- ’ _ " ' ' °

can sugxtérggn {3;0‘4O5g; gunggd as N Hafiz: :lersounlelc It 5" our lleeision  . . . . . . . . J. A. Mael’l ee 161

matter pr: . .aiieost ceio cw or. osiita .amues...” . . . .  H i . '

New York under Act of March 3. 1879. Acceptance 1. l . . on" 09 H "1" I63

for trailing at special rate of post: e provided for in Classified Advertising . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 165

Section 1103. Act of Ocrober 3. l9f7. authorized May I I . f \ I . - I-

l‘   of currcn.   Um.   0 J t  I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 

versin Microlilrns. 313 N. First Street; Ann Arbor.
Michigan.

Space Repair-Mair“: Mark Minahan. 185 North Wa-
bash Avenue; Chicago 1. Illinois.

Market News  Jean Waclitel 161
Books, Mngazincs, I’auiplilets, and Magazine Artielcs . . . . 166

 

  
  
 

1' , I I II
I      I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
Natioml Recreation Association. Incorporated
Printed in the U.S.A.
.. D U CAT 1 DNA L
h HESS Th lilI It I ilId tli
SSOCIATIOV I ore i one pro on Iupru-
' Trade mark registered in U. 5. Parent 05cc. 0": lion I! the writers and aol 0 “element 0!
A M E“ |CA policy ol Il'tI Notional Recreation Auocioiloo.

123

Howard A. Lane

SHALL CHILDREN, TOO,
BE FREE?

“Children learn the lives they lead.” As parents, leaders, and
teachers are we meeting our moral responsibility; to free them
from crooked thinking—from selfishness and prejudice?

FREEDOM IS A slate of being, a kind of living, for which
man is peculiarly made. His tremendous brain, with its
infinite capacity for development, makes it possible for him
to think freely, to plan, to predict, to use tools and experi-
ence and cooperation, in determining what he shall do in
accomplishing his purposes. As an infant he is the most
helpless, dependent of creatures. He has to learn to he free.

Behavior that distinguishes humans from other creatures
is learned. Man is a social product; he is a social heing.
Children assume the dominant habits, language, tools, he-
liefs, morals, values, aspirations, fears, superstitions, hates
of the people among whom they grow.

Children learn the lives they lead. If we would grow child-
ren according to any pattern we must provide for them eir-
cumstanees for living that eoincidc with that pattern. A
soeiety that would rear good children must provide facili-
ties and eonditions for their wholesome devel0pment. A
school cannot he considered good if its children are dull,
unhappy, incompetent, bad; a good neighhorhood does not
produce mean . . . delinquent children. When a community
or a nation proclailns, as so many have done of late, “We
have a large amount of juvenile delinquency,” it is confess-
ing, “\Ve maintain had conditions for the devel0pment of
our children.”

Personalities, Too, Can Be Malnonrished

Lacking needed amounts and kinds of food, a child’s body
grows erookedly. Some children become too fat; some have
bad teeth; others have erooked, weak bones. The effects of
malnutrition vary from person to person; all are imperfee-
tions in the body’s functions. Man lives not by bread alone.
His personality, spirit must also he nourished. Lacking the
nutriments he needs, the human grows erookedly. To the
extent that his personality is malnourished, neurotic, his
attitudes and behaviors are out of toueh with facts. . . .

Delinquent Children

Every delinquent ehild is the creation of his parents, of
neighborhoods, of a number of teachers—any of whom

DR. LANE is professor of education at San Francisco State
College. This is condensed from his pamphlet, Shall Children,
Too, Be Free?, a second edition of which was recently pub-
lished by the Anti-Defamation League of B’nai B’rith, New
York City.

124

might have saved him through friendly interest and attei
tion. Delinquents are the deprived ehildren whose crooke:
ness is displayed in aggression.

To pratc of freedom is blasphemy in any eommunity th.
neglects its children, that denies to any ehild of the con
munity the things he needs to grow straight. that impos:
indignity upon any child, or a laek of opportunity beeaus
of the color, creed, or economic fortunes of his parents.

More than twenty-four hundred years ago Socrat:
climbed to a high place in Athens and proclaimed, “Citizei
of Athens, why is it that you turn and scrape every stor
to gather wealth and neglect your children to whom, or
day, you must relinquish it all?” lie was, of course, invest
gated and executed by the Un-Athenian Activities Con
mittee of his time.

\Vllat Must \Ve Learn to Be Free?

A first step in the re-education of mankind should be tl
elimination of all appeals to selfishness in the education (
our children. Man does not need prizes, nor distinetion
nor promise of riehes to make him work hard and behai
well. It is increasingly clear that the basic ill of mankind
the quest for privilege, for undue advantage. In some hig
plaees, the Golden Rule remains the most offensive of do
trines.

We need to teaeh our children, and to acquire ourselve
as much as our brittle nervous systems can bear, three qual
ties of personality . . . we must become more altruistic, mo:
moral, and more intelligent. We use the term altruism, I
indicate the desire and ability to understand how other pet
ple feel, to sense how they are getting along. We are her
completely selfish, self-centered. . . . \Ve have today a gre:
surge of prize-giving and title-awarding hy misguide
groups of faultless intent. Patriotie soeieties offer a priz
for the best essay on Amerieanism; police designate a doze
boys as the hest traffic caps of the town; and so on. Th
identification of the best makes no sense. we want all chilt
ren to be good citizens; every junior traffic officer to do h
job competently. Offering a prize for the best implies thz
the others have failed.

Threats, prizes, competitions to be “top dog” ean be ps3
chologically as well as morally and logieally unsound. The
can Operate contrary to the very eharacteristies neeessar
to cooperative endeavor.

RECREATIOi

A Mature Morality. Among civilized cooperative peeplc.
morality is displayed in doing one’s share of the work, in
 justly equal exchange of goods and services, in judging
the “goodness” of one’s behavior by its effects upon other
people. The moral individual is motivated by an active sense
of responsibility for the well-being and good feeling of
others. Motivation of children through small group egotisms
cems most shortsighted. On the contrary, children will learn
to be moral to the extent to which they are valuable and
'alued.

Do Let the Children Learn Freedom

ome Do’s for grown-ups who would help a child learn
reedom:
0 Love that child.
Be his friend, treat him as you do your other close friends.
Try to remember how it feels to be a child. His feelings,
is time, his activities, are as important to him as yours
re to you-—-and he can’t see as far ahead as you can.

Remember it’s his house, too. He didn’t ask to be brought
ere. Maybe he has no place else to go.

Keep on holding out your hands to him! Help him grow
- 'hen he is six, and twelve, and sixteen years old. . . .
Judge the worth of what you do with him by the way he
 onds. Whatever you do, if he reacts badly to it, you do
'rong.

Have fun with him; enjoy him. Try to be a “fun com-
nion,” but let the child be the judge.

Be wary of imposing on the child your worries, fears,
rejlidices, even your hopes and aspirations. He may think
ou mean it when you yell, “Kill the umpire.”

Think carefully, to determine the areas of life in which
ou have the right to impose your will and your ways upon
- other human being, even if he is your child, your pupil.
Join neighbors in taking care of the children. Organize,
1 give mammas' some afternoons oil and some evenings off.
[’3 have tot-lots, swimming holes, places for one-0’-eat,
me decent dirt to play in, hangouts for the older childen,
aces where youngsters can be normal and not annoy their
ers.

Remember! Children live on the growing edges of life.
hey learned the names of planes before you did. They are
w trying to explain rocket propulsion to you.

Take all the children of the neighborhood into your
art as well as into your yard, and into your house, now
d then. Not until all children are to you as your own, are
u truly grown up.

Few DON’TS from. Free Children to Their Elders:
Don’t be a dictator. Dictators make us angry, afraid, and
ll.

Don’t hit us. \Ve might get the idea that it’s all right
r big nations to rule little ones by hitting. The best that
n be said for hitting is that it is confession of your failure.
When you have been a “stinker” say, “I’m sorry”—and
~ will respect you more.)

   
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
   
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
   
   
 
  

of.—-Lawson G. Lowrev, MD.
IL 1959

lEditoriall

0 Don’t embarrass us by finding fault with us before our
friends or yours.

0 Don’t treat us as cute pets, or dress-up dolls, or puppets.
\Ve are peeple.

0 Don’t laugh at us ever. Laugh with us, often.

0 Don’t be afraid to talk to us. We see through you easily
but are quite tolerant of grown-ups. But don’t talk down
to us.

0 Don’t be afraid to let us make mistakes. llow else will
we, or you, know that our way isn’t better than yours?

0 Don’t be unjust. Take some time to judge. Use very spar-
ineg the powers that you have and that we lack. Often you
drive us to meanness and deceit to get even. Let’s have no
struggle for power among us.

Some DO’S for Citizens:

0 Neglect no child in your community. Mature communities
will register children with the school at birth and will there-
after know how they fare. “As ye do unto the least of these
. . .” will tell the citizen how good he is.

0 Maintain a neighborhod council of good and able citizens
who care for all children. This council will know the con-
dition of the community’s children. It will be the clearing-
house for new enterprises and activities for children. It will
know that race tensions, delinquency, vandalism, and apathy
are the results of bad conditions, inapprOpriate demands,
unjust restrictions, lack of necessities. It will know that mis-
behavior of humans is a social fever requiring understand-
ing of basic causes and not mere suppressions. Suppressed
behavior always peps out elsewhere. The council will be
constantly alert for persons and organizations that seek prof-
it or prestige for themselves by exploiting children, and will
deal with them in the interests of children.

0 Maintain schools as the best culture the community can
provide for children. The school is the nucleus of the com-
munity’s concern for its children. It should operate in ac-
cord with their needs. It ought not to tolerate teachers or
administrators who dislike children or who lack talent for
leading children.

0 Hold regular forums in the schoolhouse or other com-
munity buildings, in which problems of the community are
considered, competent counsel is sought, and plans are made
for resolving problems. '

0 Make certain that it is possible and relatively convenient
and legal to be a child in the community. Is it easy for a
child to run and jump and splash and holler and throw?

0 Include youngsters in planning whatever is done in their
interests. Otherwise, you can’t know what to do or how to
do it. We humans seem determined to share in deciding what
happens to us. Thus are we frec. #

To me the worst vandals are not children but the adults who

wreck the character of children and destroy the lives of children
by their attitudes. Children are the most beautiful things I know

 

)THE CANADIAN ASSOCIATION for
Health, Physical Education, and Recre-
ation is holding its Biennial National
Convention in Edmonton, June 22-26.
For information, registration, and ac-
commodations, write Miss Pat Austin,
Convention Committee, School Of Phy-
sical Education, University of Alberta,
Edmonton, Alberta.

1 ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL PROBLEMS cre-
ated by the nation's fast-growing popu-
lation Of older people will be discussed
at the Middle Mississippi Valley Be-
gional Conference on Aging, to be held
at thc Statler Hilton Hotel, St. Louis,
Missouri, April 15-17. For further in-
formation, write David R. Richards,

The National Committee on the Aging,
345 East 46th Street, New York 1?.

} \VAKE UP AND READ! This is the slo-
gall of National Library Week, April
12-18. “We want to heighten the na-
tional interest in reading,” writes the
stccring committee, “and shorten the
step from curiosity to conduct——by en-
couraging people to visit a library,
bookshop, or newsstand. That step may
be short, but it can lead tO new frontiers

for millions.”

) TIIE NATIONAL VFW MARBLE TOUR-
NAMENT is announced by the National
Youth Activities Committee for July
9-12—to be held at the VFW Home in
Eaton Rapids, Michigan. Write Nation-
al Headquarters, VFW Building, Kansas
City 11, Missouri, for,further details.

1 A PLAYWRI'I‘ING CONTEST is an-
nounced by Plays, The Drama Maga-
zine for Young PeOple. A total of $750
will be awarded for original one-act
plays suitable for production by young
players. Any unpublished play written
in English may be submitted. The con-
test closes July 31, 1959. Further in-

formation maybe obtained from Contest

126

Editor, Plays Magazine, 8 Arlington
Street, Boston 16, Massachusetts.

1 GIRL SCOUT ROUNDUP. Ten thousand
Girl Scouts will live in a city of tents,

July 3-12, near Pikes Peak, Colorado.
The theme for the 1959 Roundup, “A
Mile High—A World Wide,” will em-
phasize American frontiers, both past
and present. The gathering Of the Scouts
will join the State Of Colorado in celc-
brating its centennial and recalling the
early days of the covered wagon and the
search for gold. The Girl Scouts of
America cclebrated their own 47th

birthday 011 March 12 of this year.

1 MAY IIAS BEEN DESIGNATED as Scnior
Citizens Month, under the sponsorship
of Senior Citizens of America, and, in
observation, RECREATION Magazine will
carry numerous articles about success-
ful programs for this age group. The
general purpose of the month is to focus
attention on the increase in life cxpect-
ancy and the community’s responsibil-
ity to channel these later years into use-
ful and enjoyable living.

1 CEMENT SURFACING for pavcment
games is being built in some housing
projects by the New York City Housing
Authority and is maintained by the
park department. Changes are being
made to provide space for hopscotch,
potsy, roller skating, top spinning, and
other traditional sidewalk games, ap-
pealing to youngsters from age six to
early teens. Many of the boys and girls
have outgrown the sandbox and too of-
ten are crowded out by the older teen-
agers from the basketball and other play
areas Of the larger, low-rent housing
projects. The “in-between” youngsters,
therefore, will now have their own areas,
with painted game lines replacing their
own chalk scrawls.

} ARE YOU PREPARING for National Rec-
reation Month celebrations in June? If

not, send for NBA kit of suggestion
immediately; it is still not too late! Pla
a program on the theme for the month

“Find New Worlds Through Recrez

tion.”

1’ THE THIRD NATIONAL WHEELCHAI
GAMES, sponsored by the Joseph Bulov
School of Watchmaking, in cooperatio
with the Paralyzed Veterans of Americ
and Adelphi College, will be held z
Bulova Park, Jackson Heights, NeI
York, June 6-7. For information an

entry blanks write to the school at 40-24
62nd Street, Woodside, New York.

New KAB Materials:

1 AUTOMOBILE LITTER CONTAINERS i
a pamphlet of suggestions for a litteI
bag campaign; Litter Receptacles sug
gests ways to determine effectiveness c
trash reccptacles; Litter Laws gives ir
formation on community, state, an
federal litter laws and ordinances. Fo

.copies write to Keep America Beautifu

Inc., 99 Park Avenue, New York 16
(See also page 142.)

1 A NEW BILL HAS BEEN INTRODUCEDt
the House of Representatives by Harri
B. McDowell Of Delaware, “To amenl
the Federal Property and Administra
tive Scrvices Act of 1949 to permit th
donation and other disposal of propert‘
to tax-supported public recreation agen
cies.” The bill has been referred to th
Committee on Govcrnment Operation
whose chairman is William L. Dawsoa
of Illinois (Democrat). Many privat
recreation agencies are already eligibl
to receive much surplus property. Thi
bill would give public recreation agen
cies a chance to benefit also.

) ERRATUM: A series of prints of ar
tists’ paintings are not available free t:
recreation workers from Abbott Labora
tories in Chicago, according to severa
recent letters from that firm. One 0
their own printed announcements wa:
misinterpreted.

b NRA FIELD DISTRICT additions: Th1
State of Hawaii to the Pacific Southwes
District; the State of Alaska to the Pa
cific Northwest District. As part Of 2
close cooperative relationship, there is
also representation on the Northwest
District Advisory Committee from tilt
Canadian Provinces Of Alberta, Britisf
Columbia, and Saskatchewan—at theiI
request.

RECREATIOIV

  

Readers! You are invited to send letters [or this page

to Editor, RECREATION, 8 West Eighth Street, Nets
York I l—so that your ideas, opinions and attitudes
may be exchanged with others on the wide range of
subjects 0/ concern to us all. Here is your chance to
agree or disagree with the authors of our articles.
Keep letters brt'eI—not more than 250 words.

“A Pleasure to Appear . . .”

Sirs:

Thank you for sending me the copy
of RECREATION which included my re-
marks at the Atlantic City Banquet. i
thought these were well edited and it
was a pleasure to appear in this place.

AUGUST HECKSCHER, Director, The

Twentieth Century Fund, New Yorlt,

New York.

Power of the Press
Sirs:

You will be interested to know that
my book May I Have This Dance?,
which you reviewed a few months ago,
has been accepted by committees and
adopted by the board of education of
the city of Chicago as a textbook. Li-
braries, universities, public schools,
and teachers colleges, as well as dancing
teachers, are now ordering and using
the book.

HARRIETT Scuoxnenc, Hinsdale,
Illinois.

\Vhat’s the Matter, Jimmy?
Sirs:

This is my favorite playground story
(and it really happened) :

On one of our hottest days last sum-
mer, the playground leader—a cute
little college junior—had been working
very hard “recreating” about seventy-
ftve children. All had had a wonderful
time except Jimmy, a three-year-old
who had come with his sister. Jimmy
had been cross all afternoon. At closing
time, the leader said, “What has been
the matter with Jimmy? He hasn’t been
able to get along with anybody on the
playground today.”

“He’s got the measles,” was the sis-
ter’s reply.

Mas. BETH \VALLACE YATES. Sti-
perintendent 0/ Recreation, Syla-
cattga, Alabama.

Action for Fitness
Sirs:
Action engendered by the President’s
Council on Youth Fitness and the

A PR1 L 1959

 

—The Editors.

pamphlet Youth Fitness, a Community
Responsibility, of the National Recrea-
tion Association, led, in part, to the
development of our fitness program.
The program, jointly financed by the
city and the school board, has 4-25 boys
and girls registered.

W e have extensive use of school facil-
ities for operation of our program,
which has been highly successful. it has
made the community aware of fitness,
and what is most important the com-
munity sees the role of recreation in the
fitness project.

JOSEPH D. Ronom, Director, Rec-
reation and Parks, San Ra/ael,
Cali/ornia.

0 We've had to make a re-run of the
brochure? Don't you feel good about
it?

Two more bulletins in the works for
enclosures.—Ed.

Advancement of
Hospital Reereation
Sirs:

In the January issue of RECREATION,
under the “Things You Should Know”
column, l was quoted as announcing
that in the “Suggested Standards for
Hospital Recreation Personnel,” pre-
pared by the Council for the Advance-
ment of Hospital Recreation, Clause
‘D’ will no longer be in effect after

December 31st, 1958. The date should
have read December 31st, 1959. The
February issue has just reached my
ofliee, and i find that only a correction
of the date with “regret for the error”
appearing. l, therefore, am taking this
opportunity of explaining what this is
all about.

The Council for the Advancement of
Hospital Recreation established stand-
ards for the registration of recreation
personnel employed in medical settings,
with three employment levels, which
are: hospital recreation director, hospi-
tal recreation leader, and hospital rec-
reation aide. The director and leader
levels carried a “grandfather clause"
provision. For the hospital recreation

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

TAKE YOUR PICK!

from this great line-up of

' RONALD SPORTS BOOKS

 

Hunting and Fishing—
D itow to Hunt Deer and
Small Game. Anderson $3.50

I] Deer Hunting, Perl: 2.95
E] Angler's Guide to the Salt
\Vater Game Fishes, Migdalshi 7.50
D Surf Fishing. 2nd Ed.. Eternal] 3.50
I] How to Make Fishing Lures,
Et'anof] 3.50
D Bluefishing. Lyman 2.95
E] Fly-Rod Casting. Leonard 2.95
E] Bait-Rod Casting, Leonard 2.95
Boating—
D Boating, Allen 2.95
D Start 'em Sailing. 2nd Ed.,
Aymar 4.00
E] Skiing on Water, Rev. Ed,
Andresen 4.00
E] Canoeing. Handel 2.95
E] Canoe Camping, Handel 3.00
Spring and Summer Sports—
D Archery, Reicbnrt-Keasey* 2.95
E] Winning Badminton,
Davidson-Gttstat'sost3 2.95
D Baseball Techniques Illustrated.
Allen-Mirolean” 2.95
D How to Pitch. Feller" 2.95
E] Softball, 3rd Ed., Noren” 2.95
E] Golf Illustrated. Berg-Cost” 2.95
D Swimming, Kipbtttb” 2.95
E] Tennis for Beginners.
t‘tlttrpby-t‘ilttrpby” 2.95
E] Tennis Techniques Illustrated.
Mace-Miroleatt” 2.95

Boxing-Wrestling-Body Building —
D Better Boxing: An illustrated

Guide. Lal-‘ond-Menendez‘ 2.95
E] Boxing, HaisleW 2.95
D Wrestling. Ret'. Ed..
Gallagher-Peery” 2.95
D Weight Lifting and Progressive
Resistance Exercise. Mttrray° 2.95
E] Defend Yourself!. Grover" 2.95
E] Jiu Jitsu. Lowell" 2.95
D Physical Conditioning,
Stafford-Duncan” 2.95

‘BARNES SPORTS lIIRARY IOOKS
Those lavishly liiustrotod 'how-to' hooks
ot'lor o comploto introduction to every sport
—ruios, techniques, equipment. Individual
and team ploy. Action photos ond drowlngs
make it easy to mostor both rudiments and
special skills. Written by top couch". ploy-
ors. and outhorltios.

At bookstores or order from publisher
(Clip shit elf—check boob you want.
‘5 Attach to your letterhead—tend with

 
   

remittance. I

THE RONALD PRESS COMPANY
I5 East 2601 Street, New York 10

127

  I I A the NEW low cost

RUBBERIZED
PLAYGROUND

  
  
  
  
   
         
   
  

1%ng

ACCIDENTS

. Pl_aygraund directars
everywhere, are reparting a

sharp DECREASE ar NO ACCI-
DENTS AT ALL an SAF-PLA. This
praven playground surfacing material
can be applied ta black tap, cancrete ar
any smaath penetratian pavement. Actual
rubber in SAF-PLA gives kids a”baunce instead of a
bruise" and practically eliminates all abrasians, -
cuts and painful falls. let us send yau the FACTS!

write for bulletin no. 6 . . .

RUBBER RECLAIMING CO..

BOX 365 BUFFALO 5- NEW fOIIK

CONSULTATION

PLANNING
and

DESIGN...

Of All Your

Recreation Facilities

0 Ice Skating Rinks
0 Swimming Pools

0 Field Houses

0 Tennis Courts

Creative development of entire recreation areas,

backed up by years of experience (84 swimming pools, rinks,

and other facilities.)

PETER CARVER ASSOCIATES
70 East 45th Street
New York 17, New York

 

128 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

can  most

director this is Clause ‘D’ and reads as
follows:

For those employed full-time in the
profession as of December 31, 1959,
a total of seven years of academic
training in a college or university and
successful full-time paid eXperience
in recreation for the handicapped in
a medical setting, providing two of
the seven years (sixty college cred-
its) have represented study (regard-
loss of the field of specialization) at
an accredited college or university,
and three of the seven years have rep-
resented sncccssfpl full-time paid ex-
perience in recreation for the handi-
capped in a medical setting.

For the hOSpital recreation leader the
grandfather clause is Clause ‘B’ and
reads as follows:

For those employed full-time in the
profession as of December 31, 1959, a
total of five years of academic train-
ing in a collcge or university and suc-
cessful full-time paid experience in
recreation, providing two of the five
years (sixty college credits) have
represenled study (regardless of the
field of specialization) at an accred-
ited college or university.

In addition to the grandfather clause
and included in the application form.

there is also a provision for “pioneers”

in the field. It reads as follows:

Under certain conditions, special
consideration is due pioneers in this
field. Therefore, if you have had in-
sufficient education for the level for
which you are applying, but have had
at least two years of experience at
that level of responsibility for each
year of required academic schooling
which you lack, fill out below.

This is followed by questions which
help establish the eligibility of the ap-
plicant for the pioneer provision.

NIARTIN W. MEYER, Ed.D., Co-
ordinator of Activity Therapy,
Division of Mental Health, In-

dianapolis 7.

Who Sponsors Recreation?
Sirs:

The recent letter in the January issue
of RECREATION under the title of “Con-
troversial” implied a trend which has
not appeared in the Long Island, New
York, area. In regard to who sponsors
community recreation, I have this to
say. It has always been my opinion that
it isn’t nearly so important who does
this job of recreation as it is that the
most capable agency or agencies within
the community become involved. In
many areas, the school is the only
agency with adequate facilities and
trained personnel to do the job right.

This question of agency sponsorship
in the minds of many is basically a sub-
jective viewpoint and not based on
principle or practicability. More im-
portant, what we need to consider is the
matter of how the agencies within a
community can cooperate best and co-

RECREATION

Now . . .
creators of
the famous
“.Iunglegym” 0
bring you

 

Catalog 5 5

PLAY-PA]?

Packaged Playgrounds

by Porter

*
complete playground packages, designed by

qualified recreation specialists, and produced by
PORTER, famous for almost a century

PLAY-PAK packaged playgrounds by Porter are a happy
solution for schools with growing enrollments and over-
burdened budgets. These coordinated fun-grounds are de-
signed by experts to provide safe, body-building activity for
a maximum number of children. Used singly, or in a series
as enrollment dictates, PLAY-PAK installations automatically
"group" students into manageable numbers and eliminate
playtime “bottle-necks". PLAY-PAKS can be installed with-
out special equipment. You realize a cash-savings with
PLAY-PAKS, too. Package price for these top-quality units is
well below the published list prices of eight major equip-
ment manufacturers. For more information, write today.

DOUBLES RIGIDITY

erection time in halt!

 

CUTS INSTALLATION TIME

Porter's new exclusive “nesting-joint” makes the “lunglegym”
stronger, more streamlined than ever before. With it, you cut

 

Catalog $1354

 

“The Midway" PLAY-PAR

4-pieces $459

FOUR-SWING SET: Height, 10'. Hot-
dipped galvanized top-rail and supports.
Tested malleable iron fittings.

JUNGLEGYM: Capacity, 20 children.
Length 6' 4”. Width 4' 9". Tower height, 7'.

TWO-BOARD SEESAW: 12' long fir

boards. Hot galvanized steel frames. Tested
malleable iron fittings.

12' STAINLESS-STEEL SLIDE: Height, 6'.
18" stainless-steel bedway. Capacity 6
children.

"The Midway” PLAY-PAH is "children-
eered" to accommodate 34 youngsters in
complete safety.

 

 

  
  
  

16’ STAINLESS-STEEL SLIDE (Cot.
£15855): 18' stainless-steel bodwoy.
Capacity. 6 children

gMERRY-GO-ROUND (Cat. #940):

Diameter. 10'. Capacity. 30 children

'—
1 .' -/’ .-’ ' a j .1 .1, I, [fall-J : .
FOUR-BOARD SEESAW (Cot.
11135-4): 12' long boards. Capacity. 8
children '

  

 

SIX-SWING SET(Cm. “09): " JUNGLEGYM (Cot. s4};
Height.10'. Capacity. 6 lower, 10'/2'. Copacnv. 50

children children

New PLAY-PAK by Porter "The Carnival" PLAY-PAR

for body-building fun 5'P‘°°°‘ $765

PLAY-PAK stimulates the “exercise-with-fun” patterns “The Carnival" is scientifically
applauded by parents and educators alike. And PLAY- engineeréd t0 accommodate 100
PAK is sensibly priced—within the budget-ability of every Chddren m utmost safety' order

h 1 t d n t_t h . t. C, , now, before May 31. Save
SC 00 SYS em, an a y paren eac er organlza 1011. lVlC,  on “The Carnival" 
fraternal groups and service Clubs, too, find PLAY-PAK PAK. Save $59 on “The Mid-
the practical gift for school or park playgrounds. WaY" PLAY-FAX. based on con-

sumer retail price list.

ORTER ATHLETIC EQUIPMENT COMPANY 5... _

  

OTTAWA, ILLINOIS

A division of Waco Manufacturing Company

 

 

WRITE FOR COMPLETE PORTER CATALOG

Send today for more inionnation on “The Mid-
way" or “The Carnival” PLAY-PAK. Ask for
latest catalog showing the full Porter line of
recreation equipment.

Suggested F.O.B.
factory list priceI
not installed.

ordinate their thinking to provide more
ellieiently run programs that best meet
the needs and interests of the commu-
nity.

With regard to the possibility of pro-
fessional recreation personnel changing
from one type of sponsored program to
another. it has and is being done sue-

eessfully and apparently will continue
to be a common practice. A good man.
with professional training, who is well
grounded in the basic philosophy of rec-
reation, and has a willingness to work,
in my opinion, will be a much sought
after individual by any group.

HARRY C. THOMPSON, Assistant

DirectOr for Recreation, C r e a t
Neck Public Schools, New York.

Disagrees

Sirs:

In the February issue of RECREATION
Magazine, Mr. Kershow’s article “Why
Recreation?” is only true where people
have to be told and sold on recreation.

In many areas, recreation is on very
firm footing and the big question is not
“Why Recreation?” but how to get
more and better recreation. Mr. Ker-
show’s remarks may be true in his local
area, but it does not apply to a well-
informed area.

I think the question is answered every

day by the rapid growth of recreation
all over the US. and elsewhere. The

article, “Local Developments,” (same
issue) in which cities approved bond
issues to the tune of $2,306,500 more
than answers “why?”.

Mr. Kershow’s statement that the rec-
reator’s central theme or guiding ideal
of our profeSsion is the educational fac-
tor, whether it be learning through

play, growth through interest, or health

through participation, is only one part
of recreation. The primary or central
theme of recreation is “fun” or the ef-
feetive state of happiness through vol-
untary participation. It is not the edu-

eational factor; it is part of recreation
but by no means the central theme.

The pressing problems that face the

recreation profession are listed below,
and I would like to see more emphasis

placed on them:
0 More professional trained pe0ple in

the field.

0 Higher salaries to attract the best
leaders available.

0 Improved physical facilities.

0 More use of existing facilities, as
peeially school buildings.

0 Long-range planning for recreation
and the acquisition of land for recre-
ation areas.

0 Research and the scientific approach
to recreation and its problems.

EDSEL B. MMtTZ, Supervisor of Play-
grounds, Arlington, Virginia.

A van. 1959

it

it

Dear “Li’l Liza Jane,”

"I've Been Working on the Railroad" "Down in the Valley"
and I miss my “Home. Sweet Home.”

I'm coming home soon. so get the group tagether and we’ll go down on
the levee and sing those wonderful old songs "All "l'hrongh the Night."

Ajieclionalely,
“John Henry”

Dear “John Henry,”

I'm glad you're coming home. It seemed as if you were "Ten Thousand
Miles Away." I'll bring the Let’s All Sing songbooks and meet you on the
levee with "Barbara Allen." "Billy Boy,"."Clementine," "Cowboy jack,”
and "Sweet Betsy from Pike." 1 can hardly wait. We always have such fun!

Love,
“1.?! Liza Jane”

PS. I think more people should get their own groups together—family,
friends, or both-buy a few copies of Let’s All Sing and settle back [or some

singing fun. "Whoopee Ti Yi Yo!"

L.L.J.

P.P,S_ By the way, Let’s All Sing is a basic collection of I53 easy-losing
songs that are especially good [or levee singing. camplire songfests, and just
about any other occasion when someone says. "Let's all sing!" Many of the
songs are our favorites and there is a melody line [or each selection.

L.L.J.

lET’S All. SING
A popular new songbook

by James F. Leisy

$1.75 in paper, $2.95 in cloth at your bookstore

ABINGDON PRESS

Publisher of The Fun Encyclopedia

.. ,/

I ’ —
'. F I I . U I '
‘MEIIC‘W OIDES‘ 5ND I‘IOES‘ IMPOIYIIS ‘ND MANUFACEUIE'S 0'

FENCING EQUIPMENT

 
 

l.
'I

 
 
 
 

your free copy

30 EAST 10th STREET, NJ. 3. NJ. ' Mammy

When writing to our advertiser: please mention RECREATION.

Wrilo Depl. R for

    
     
       
  
   
 
  

’0’ o 0 6—6—6 0 0—0 owe a. (do? a";
NEW 1959"

Illustrated .

CATALOG:

Lists training aids and equipment .
for club or classroom instruction. An
essential guide

to an impor-0
_ tont activity.0

ESIGNS FR PLAY

Philadelphia play equipment goes modern . . .

 

,i,r'.-VI;':I—I‘. I
Play equipment [or adventurous and inquisitive young- education and city department of recreation, carried out
sters is non well established on the city playgrounds o/ by the recreation coordination board, results in imagina-
Philadelphia and is a source of pride to neighborhood peo- tive equipment in schoolyards as well. The schools also
plc. Eren the tots’ play apparatus is now modern in design. avail themselves of recreation department sites, to augment

Wherever possible. coordination between the board of school programs by using this stimulating equipment.

130 RECREATION

Dragon Spray Pool. This striking equipment has been
successful because of its novel appearance. Certainly it
would have been much more economical to stick a piece of
pipe in the ground and have water pour forth to spray the
youngsters. Bringing a dragon into the picture makes them
feel it’s something more than a way to get wet.

 

. my w
H

Train. This piece is very inexpensive to create. Many
youngsters can play on it at the same time, and it has proven
one of the most popular in the department. Eaeh piece rep-
resents a different car of the train, and the children can
imagine themselves doing various things. It also is a novel
climbing place.

Igloo. These give youngsters a real chance to use their
l imagination. Actually they can visualize these climbers as
various things, not necessarily igloos. They think of them
as spaceships, sides of whales, and so on. Installation costs
are not heavy, and youngsters make constant use of the
equipment.

Boat. This craft has many functional uses. One section is

. a sandbox; other parts represent climbing devices; still
other sections give youngsters a chance to play “ship.” A
great number of children can use the boat at the same time.
It is a popular piece at a small playground and installation
costs are not expensive.

 

‘ APRIL 1959

C

The Old West? No. Just attractive
play facilities, so constructed that

they can be moved from playground to
playground as tlze‘clzildren tire of them.

Florence Van Eck Birkhead

SADDLE CITY

D0 CHILDREN like to play at being a
stagecoach driver? A newcomer to
a mining town of the old West? They
can do just that, in a realistic way,
in Oakland, California by touring the
city playgrounds. During the past two-
and-a-half years the city recreation de-
partment has been introducing one in-
novation after another in the way of
progressive play equipment. Each piece
is a marked departure from the stand-
ard swings and slides so common over
the country. Each shows what miracles
can be accomplished by an imaginative
and interested construction man, such
as Bert Trubody, Oakland’s construc-
tion maintenance supervisor.

True, Oakland playgrounds have
standard equipment, too, but now “real-
istic and theme” forms that recall a
saga, legend, or phase of frontier his-
tory or that portray various means of
transportation are being added.

Today, small-scale jeeps, horse-drawn
wagons, a stagecoach, locomotives, and
even a space rocket are dotted about
the city. The new designs give children
a chance to see, feel, learn, and explore
the conveyances of different eras, and
play aboard them. Climbing into a
stagecoach and setting out across the
prairie, shinning up a fire-engine pole,
and riding your horse into Saddle City
make up fun in Oakland.

All pieces of equipment are colorful,
well-designed, and sturdy enough to
take the tramping of thousands of boys

MRS. BIRKHEAD is public information
representative 0 f the Oakland Recreation
Department.

132

and girls. All are receiving a tumultu-
ous welcome from the young—and from
the young-at-heart who view them.
The department’s first approach in
offering play pieces based upon an his-
torical period or familiar mechanical
invention was the construction, in 1956,
of authentic covered tree
houses, and tepees for housing, at the

wagons,

municipal mountain camps for boys and
girls. Since then, log horses with genu-
inc leather saddles. wagons of yester-
year, and a frontier log cabin for use as
a playhouse are scattered among the
units. All are in harmony with their
surroundings and also reminiscent of
early life in California.

The acceptance of these was so cu-
thusiastic that planning immediately
focused upon designs that would be
“real and true.” a part of today’s living
and of historical and educational value.
Too, recreation leaders are well aware
of which toys have greatest appeal. So
along came small-scale locomotives, a
fire engine, a street roller of concrete
pipe, a police motorcycle, a dragster,
and a car resembling a MC.

Soon there followed a still larger
locomotive, more jeeps (one of the most
popular), and swings suspended from a
specially designed curved arch. Some
motion is possible with or in each form,
either a hack-and-forward movement
or a sideways pitch. A quick coupling
has been standardized which holds the
pieces securely to the ground.

A full-scale, eight-foot track-layer
tractor has been located at three dif-
ferent playgrounds during the past year,

and at each, the children swarm overI
it. A four-foot-high, all-steel locomotive
was made from a discarded
boiler, and has visited two locations
to datc. It is as popular with girls as
with boys.

To some playgrounds have gone i11-
teresting metal-pipe horses, 3 fire engine
with its own pole (this is an abstract
design) , and crawl-through tunnels. An

water
I

eight-foot rocket made from a hoiler,
with steering gears, takes two passen-
gers. A six-foot dragsler of four-inch
pipe uses Model-T springs and is with-
out coils. From these singles came the
plan to build “settings”—each with a
definite theme-—and to rotate them
from one playfield to another, with a
probable stay of four to six months at -
each. Rotating gives thousands of chil-
dren a chance to relive a phase of West-
ern history and to have more than usual
fun learning while playing. For young-
sters whose only experience with en-
gines and wagons has been with small
Christmas-toy versions these replicas
arc dreams come true. .

One set features a three-quarter fac-
simile of the Wells Fargo stagecoach
as shown in the bank’s historical
room in San Francisco. The cab of this
eight-and-a-half-foot-long and seven-
foot-high model is of expanded metal
and reinforcing iron mounted on the
front wheels of a Model-T Ford. The ex-
panded metal permits children to see
through it and is preferable to solid
panels. The stage is painted the red and I
yellow of the original. Accompanying
the stage are two forty-four-incll-high'

Iiecam'rlon

Main street of old mining town. New (lo-
sign of portable play eqnipnwm helps the
youngsters catch np on llislnry via play.

 

They can really climb into the overland
stagecoach and set on] across the prairie.
ll is painted red and yellow of original.

 

All are in harmony with early life. in Cali-
fornia. The horses are made of fiber-
glass over framework of metal and wood.

horses made of fiberglass over metal
and wood frames. One is a sorrel tan,
the other a mottled brown.

Two similar fiberglass horses can be
found this year at the boys' eamp. One,
a dappled grey, is at a hitching post,
while the other, all white with saddle,
is “taking a jump” over a low.

The largest set is a representation
of Main Street in a 49’er mining town,
Saddle City. The faeades of the ghost-
town buildings are of three-ineh ran-
dom-width eedar and depiet a general
store, gun shop, assay ofliee, meeting
hall. cafe, and blacksmith shop. At the
far end of the street is the jail, complete
with iron door and barred windows. A

APRIL 1959

 

watering trough. towlf pump, and a
tombstone add to the atmosphere. Eaeh
building front has a different roofline—
one is square, another peaked, others
have various juttings and gingerbread
trims.

Some years back. a surplus navy hull
was delivered by erane to the boundary
line of a playground in the eastern part
of the eity. This now has been eonverted
into a two-masted pirate ship with three
deeks. Sidings and deeks were made in
sections at the department’s shops and
tranSported one by one to the playfield
and affixed to the hull. 'l‘he forty-foot
structure earries four eannons. eaeh
two-and-a-half-feet long. and a harpoon

gun. A lighthouse for this is in the
making.

To date, fifty-one pieces have been
eonstrur'ted by the department. Surplus
yards, junk piles. and wreekers’ lots
have been scouted for eastaways of
metal, wood, leather, and parts, whieh
have been eom'erted into ingenious
play pieces. The utilization of inexpen-
sive serap materials kept eosts at a min-
imum. Little or no maintenance is re-
quired for them and they weather well.

In the future? Spaeeships are in the
minds of the shopmen. In their words.
“liar-h pieee inspires another, and we
never tire of planning and making play

forms ehildren will enjoy. 2;

133

Playgrounds
in Oak Park,
Illinois,

mean more
today than
sandboxes,
swings, play-
fields, and

ball diamonds.

 

A fire engine that is designed to stinmlate the curiosity, the imagination, the creative
instincts in children using the playground, giving free rein to active make-believe.

Our Playgrounds

Lilly Ruth Hanson

WE HAVE COME a long way since
our playgrounds were organized
thirty-seven years ago. Today, when
speaking of playgrounds, we think of
them as recreation centers for anyonc
front three to ninety-three, and we use
the word “recreation” more than the
word “play.” Recreation is broad
enough to include play in all phases,
plus any activities not thought of as
play—the dance, drama, crafts, and
creative activities for the enrichment of
life generally.

In our recreation program, we aim to
offer activities for all age and interest
levels. We set up a diversified program
of various interests, with physical and
cultural values from baseball to dancing
school. In addition, we provide recre-
ation centers in the summer, made pos-
sible through the cooperation of the
board ofeducation and the park district.

During the school year the recrea-
tion department offers a program, in
the morning, for preschoolers four days
a week from nine-thirty to eleven-thirty
and from three or three-thirty to five-
thirty, and Saturday, nine to five, for
elementary age and teenagers. Special
activities are conducted evenings, such

MISS HANSON is director of playgrounds

in Oak Park. Her article is used courtesy
of the Infant Welfare Society; Oak Park
and River Forest, Illinois.

134

as family night, dramatic productions,
talent shows, dance festivals, and teen
dances. During the summer months a

program is conducted from nine to nine
six days a week for nine weeks‘.

Our recreation program starts with
the three-year-old. “Preschools,” con-
ducted at all the playgrounds, take care
of ,the little folks from three to five.
These aim to provide activities that keep
the childrcn happy, provide an atmos-
phere where a child has freedom to de-
velOp muscular and artistic skills, and
train the children to share with others
in their play, with toys, blocks, and at
the tea table.

Their activities include singing,
rhythm work, handcrafts, story-acting,

activity records, and playing on the

tot-lot apparatus. One of the greatest
values derived from the preschool is
the joy of music in simple songs and
rhythms, the joy of creation in the use
of clay and crayons, and spontaneous
dramatization of songs and stories. The
Oak Park playground preschools are li-
censed by the state welfare department.

The playground and recreation de-
partment sets up a program to meet the
different age and interest levels. We
provide an athletic program for physi-
cal development. This ineludes football,
basketball, softball, ice skatinrr track.

as
volleyball, swimming, tennis, and table

tennis. A baseball school is conducted,
for ages nine and up, at two parks for
six weeks during the summer. Exercise
on playground apparatus lends itself to
physical development.

In dramatics, we give instruction in
the fundamentals, including diction,
voice, stage technique, and play produc-
tion. Creative dramatics is given special
emphasis in the program. It is a natural
outlet for the preschool child, in his
play at the tea table, with the blocks,
and through creative movements with
music. It is oflered to the elementary
and high-school ages as basic training
through improvisations, story-acting,
pantomime, and tryouts.

The Community Children’s Theatre,
was inaugurated in 1954, for the pur-
pose of providing entertainment of a
professional type, for appreciation of
good theater. This is a series of six
programs, once a month on Saturday
afternoon, cosponsored by the boards
of education of Oak Park and River
Forest. The program for the 1958-59
season includes: Hiawatha and the
Magic Forest (a three-act play) ; Alad-
din and Carnival of the Animals (Begg’s
Ballet) ; The Year There W as No May
(a three-act play); Pinocchio (mario-
nette show} ; three-act play (by Rosary
College) ; Winnie the Pooh (a three-act
play).

The recreation department also pro-
duces Hallowe’en and Christmas plays,
as well as an outdoor pantomime, in the
dramatic program. The high-school age
is given special consideration through
the activities of the Stevenson Players.

RECREATION

 

'0

I
l
!

 

In the dancing program we offer
ballet. tap. folk dancing, and square
dancing. The junior-high dances. held
monthly during the school year, gained
wide interest, and the teenage dances
during the summer were popular.

One of the newest trends is our spe-
cial events, which have won national
recognition. They serve as a theme for
the weekly program. These are held on
Saturdays during the school year and
on Fridays during the summer.

One of the major events of the year.
that has become traditional, is the cir-
eus, which: this past summer, included
four hundred participants—boys and
girls from the playgrounds—who per-
formed before some five thousand spec-
tators. The theme was “Circus in Outer
Space,” with purple people eaters doing
a folk dance, little Martian people

Variety in program eovers drama iit‘li‘i-
tics, of course, music and dancing as well.

marching, lndians dancing, animals
performing tricks, and so on, and served
as the culmination of the summer's ac.-
tivities.

Recreation is provided for the older
adults at one playground an afternoon
a week. The playgrounds also cosponsor
their recreation center, which meets
three days a week through the coopera-
tion of the community welfare council.

The Oak Park playgrounds, we be-
lieve, have made constant progress. and
our recreation program has become an
integral part of community life. From
the Golden Jubilee in 1951, to the Com-
munity Children’s Theatre programs
for the past five years, to the preschool
group. to football, baseball, and basket-
ball schools, they have contributed a

Avon. 1959

unique service to Oak Park. One grati-
fying result of this has been a growing
cooperation on the part of the other
local educational groups, such as the
grade and high schools, the. men’s serv-
ice elubs, Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts. and
Campfire Girls.

Improvements of note in the physical
aspects of the playgrounds during the
past five years have included:

0 Installation of five tot-lots for ages
seven and under. which include four
swings, a slide, sandbox, and climber.
Tot~lots are best located in secluded
areas.

0 New floors in assembly rooms in-
stalled at four playgrounds.

I All apparatus received a “new look”
—striped coat of paint.

0 A “new world of play” has been
made possible with the creative type of
apparatus installed at the playgrounds
within the past year. Last summer, the
children enjoyed a new playscope. Two
units include: (ll six swings, a trapezc,
a set of rings. two chinning bars; (2)
the “web,” which represents a playweb
magic carpet that suggests climbing
over a rolling wave. its large scale and
attractive lines meet physical activity
and dramatic needs of large groups of
children.

0 A new playscope is on the horizon
for today’s children. A particular type
of apparatus for creative play is re-
vealed in the “frigate climber,” which
represents a boat including two fiber-
glass decks, fore and aft; a movable
pilot wheel fastened to a mast; chain
ladders fastened to boat frame and
crow’s nest. The “fire engine” affords
drama and physical activity for every
age, hours on end. It is a climber. which
includes a ladder with supporting hand-
rails, two running boards. two movable
wheels, and seats in front and back.

One of the greatest achievements in
the playground system is the unified
recreation program, the jointing of
schools and playgrounds, the sharing of
facilities. and the future planning of a
coordinated recreation program for the
benefit of parochial- and public-school
children. A basketball school organized
for Saturday mornings, at Mann School
for the northsiders and at Lincoln
School for the southsidcrs, represents
the beginning of such a unified pro-
gram. promising well for the future.

 

Playgrounds give youngsters opportunity
for adventure and stimulation In group.

Most important, though, in the
glimpse back over the years, has been
the change in the children themselves,
and in their play habits. Gradually.
through the building up of a man}-
sided program, adapted to both ages
and individual interests, through ad-
herence to a sound philosophy of rec-
reation, and to the insistence on a
trained staff of leaders, we have seen
the attitudes of the children undergo a
radical change. They now accept their
daily recreation activities as an educa-
tional experience, ust as they do those
at school. They know that in recreation
they are finding an outlet for natural
skills. are. enriching their lives through
friendships. and are. learning emotional
control through competitive play. They
have begun to realize that this release
of their powers of imagination through
recreation means not only the gaining
of new strength, new faith. and new un-
derstanding of themselves and of one
another, but the opportunity to make
hobbies into vocations. and to live more

fully. ,4:

 

l’resehoolers at free play. Little folks
loveaelivilicsllmt irnnlve self-expression.

135

 

cusru—LINE
Wm HAT and can RACKS

,4

Tallored to fit any lven 0 en ar clasetted wall
area. Smart ln des gn an modern ln "clear".
“ old" dee etched anodized finishes and cam-
b natlans. uallty bullt—clased-end alumlnum
tublng. rlgldly held In cast aluminum brackets
that are adjustable for helght ln davetalled
mauntln extruslons. Brackets also adjustable
to any eslred centers.

3 BASIC SHELVES

  
 
 
  

1. Hot eheivee with
hanger bar tar caet
hengere.

2. Hat shelves wlttr etea-
ered caet elumlnum caet
oaks.

3. Hat or utltlty “pletn”
ehelvee tor etaclred tlere
tar generel use.

      
   
 
 

Write for Bulletln CL 515

VOGEL-PETERSON CO.

"21 W 37th Stu r-t - Clucago 9. t  '

 

reach for

Program Aids 

NOTHlNG—But nothing builds better Pro-
grams and mare participation than Pro-
gram Aids. They are widely endarsed and
hailed as unique and unparalleled ar-
ganizatian and promotion tools.

a ERASO" Posters 8. Charts

0 SPOT AWARDS" Trophies 8: Cups

0 PLAYMASTER" Coaching Aids

0 SCORE-KING!" Magnetic Scoreboard

e RECORD-MASTER*“llall-ot-Fame” Displays
0 Executive Scheduling Kits

.era.us.nr on WRITE FOR CATALOG TO—

TIIE PROGRAM AIDS .00., INC.

 R,   AVBe' Ne Yr :6; Ne Ya

 

136

A “significant and
far-reaching” development .

In what may well be one of the most
significant and far-reaching develop-
ments in the history of the recreation
movement, the Ontario, Canada, provin-
cial legislature passed a bill in March,
1958, incorporating the Society 0] Di-
rectors 0] Municipal Recreation 0/ 0n-
tario. Although the act does not estah-
lish the society as a professional body
similar to those of the legal and medical
professions, it does give an official
identity to the recreation practitioner.
Full professional status was withheld
since a “profession” is considered an
occupation requiring university gradu-
ation as a prerequisite to practice and.
at present, the society does not demand
this qualification for membership.

Historically, the existence of a quasi-
professional recreation organization in
Ontario dates back a little over twelve
years, when the Recreation Directors
Federation of Ontario was formed “to
increase the professional competence.
ethical practices, and status of its mem-
bers and to promote all things relating
to the business of recreation.”

As the federation continued to oper-
ate, it became evident that official rec-
ognition of the full-time recreation em-
ployee as a professional person was
needed if the status objective of the
federation was to be achieved. lt was
felt that the most effective method of
ohtaining the desired recognition was
to have recreation designated as a pro-
fession by government action. To this
end, a hill was prepared for submission
to the provincial legislature. The con-
tent was approved hy federation mem-
bership and legal advice was secured as
to format and procedure. The members
informed their local legislative assem-
hly member regarding the purposes of
the prOposed bill; and on March 27,
1958, the bill received its final reading
and became law in the Province.

One more step was required before
the Society of Directors of Municipal
Recreation of Ontario comes into exist-

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

ence. By law, the new constitution must
be ratified by the membership within six
months of the final reading date. This
was done at the first annual meeting of
the society in September, 1958.

With the formation of the new soci-
ety, the Recreation Directors Federa-
tion of Ontario ceases to exist, and all
one hundred and twenty active federa-
tion members have become memhers of
the society automatically. Frill member-
ship is open to all full-time municipal
recreation employees in the Province of
Ontario who meet the requirements out-
lined in the constitution and bylaws.
Recreation emplOyees of other agencies
will be eligible for associate memher-
ship.

Active membership in the society
falls into two classifications—qualify-
ing and fellow. Persons joining the so-
ciety do so as qualifying members and
have five years to complete the require-
ments for the award of fellowship. Cen-
erally speaking, these requirements
include the completion of the in-service
training course for recreation directors,
offered jointly by the Community Pro-
grammes Branch of the Department of
Education and the University of West-
ern Ontario. Candidates for fellowship
have to pass an examination conducted
by the board of regents of the society
upon completion of the aforementioned
academic requirements. In addition, all
candidates must present evidence of
successful experience in the recreation
field.

Future plans of the society include
raising membership standards (possi-
bly to the extent of requiring a univer-
sity degree as a prerequisite to fellow-
ship) in order that recreation may take
its place as a true profession. At present,
the attitude and outlook of the memhers
is professional in both concept and ap-
plication. With the adoption of suffi-
ciently advanced academic standards,
members of the Society of Directors of
Municipal Recreation of Ontario can
look forward to the day when they are
accorded full recognition as profession-
al practitioners of recreation.—ROSS C.
RATIIIE, a former Canadian recreation
director, now in private industry.

RECREATION

 

 

 

'w—

'l‘op lcfl, Avalon Park Fieldhouse, new Chicago Park District
recreation center, is one of many that will be open 10 delegates’
inspection. Below, Burnllam l’ark Harbor and the Planetarium.

H '.

Right, parks are brought inlo the hour] of Chicago's business
center, with Gran] Park as the city’s front yard. The park
district program provides for $8,000,000 in new facilities.

SIDELIGHTS ON CHICAGO '

Scene of the 415: National Recreation

Congress, September 28 to
October 2, 1959.

1‘ HAS BEEN nearly a quarter of a century [1936] since
I the National Recreation Congress was held in Chicago.
For a city where progress is so rapid, it means that this next
Congress should prove a considerable revelation, especially
when considering the Chicago Park District facilities.

The current program of the Chicago Park District pro-
vides for expenditure of eight million dollars for recreation
facilities. The program calls for some thirty-three recrea-
tion buildings. several new swimming pools, land acquisi-
tion, lighting of parks, and other similar improvements.

Park Facilities You \Vill Want to See

For example, there is the new indoor-outdoor pool at
Carver Park, built with a retractable roof. The room in
which this pool is located is 68' by 124’, and can be com-
pletely uncovered in four minutes. This pool was built in
a housing project at a cost of $514,000.

A swimming pool, meeting Olympic standards, is cur-
rcntly under construction at Portage Park, which will be-
come the official Pan-American pool for games held just
prior to the Congress. Two new basins will be constructed,
one of which will be a diving pool with a sixteen-foot depth,
and one-meter, three-meter, and high-dive boards. The new
Olympic pools are estimated to cost $524,700.

A number of new park district ficldhouses will also be

A van. 1959

open for visitors’ inspection. A typical fieldhouse just com-
pleted is the one in Avalon Park. The building is a T-shapcd,
two-story structure, with a gymnasium, club rooms. craft
room, kitchen, showers, and locker rooms.

For those interested in facilities for housing projects,
the Chicago Park District has a fieldhouse in the Stateway
Gardens Project that has proved most efficient in meeting
the needs of a high-density community. The building has a
gym, club rooms. craft room, games room and a health de-
partment welfare station. The cost of this fieldhouse was
$288,000, and it is located on a ten-acre park site.

In addition to the major facilities the park district had
developed many neighborhood facilities. Typical are build-
ings such as were erected in Hollywood and Stony lsland
Parks. They are small structures with games room, utilities
room, director’s office. and sanitary facilities, which will
cost between thirty-five and forty-five thousand dollars.
These buildings are located in smaller parks, usually from
ten to fifteen acres. The sites have the usual softball fields,
playgrounds, multiple-use game courts for tennis, basket-
ball, and volleyball, lighting. and landscaping.

The playlots developed by the city are usually intended
to serve much smaller geographical areas. These are paved,
and a complete set of apparatus has been installed. This in-

eludes swings, slides, and climbing structures. #

137

Let’s do something about this, on

the playgrounds and in our recreation

centers.

John J. Considine

 

“Exercise shonld take many forms.” Above, finals of the Olympie meet.
Today, we find too many Marys and Toms enjoying only passive reereation.

TOO MUCH COMPLACENCY

“The first need is a nationwide under-
standing of the necessity for clean,
wholesome recreation that comes from.
participation in athletics. A youthful
participant need not be an expert or a
champion. Thus, there is the need to
provide the facilities and a program.
Participation by youth will follow.”-——

J. EDGAR HOOVER

ASHORT TIME AGO there was a best-
seller dealing with a nostalgic view

of the childhood of yesteryear, in-
triguingly titled Where Did You Go?

Out. What Did Y on Do? Nothing. This
was not meant to be taken literally, but,
unfortunately, today this is often the
tragic truth.

Youth fitness is a current problem.
It is national in scope, as has been
stated often by publicity in the mass
communication media, by speeches, and
by President Eisenhower’s Council on
Youth Fitness. On a local level, we
have striven to reinforce our long-time

MR. CONSIDINE, general superintendent
of the Detroit parks and recreation de-

partment, has been appointed to Presi-
dent Eisenhower’s Committee on Fitness

of American Youth.

138

awareness of this problem by taking
remedial steps.

Sometimes we adults, living in a
world separate from the young, view
them with awe. We admire the fluidity
of their limbs, the perpetual motion
that is natural to them, their Aladdin-
like recuperative powers, and their op-
timistic attitude at daily trials. We tend
to equate this with meaning good health.

This is not always true.

The modern era,defined often enough
to us as an age of spectators, is punctu-
ated with television sets, radio sounds,
soft movie seats, restlubautornobiles,
and next-door drug stores. America is
the land of plenty and of excessive lux-
uries which—sadly enough—often take
their toll by cutting way down on the
right kinds of exercise. '

In addition to directing all age
groups in a year-round recreation pro-
gram, we are putting the magnifying
glass upon our youngsters—the boys
and girls who are tomorrow’s adults and
leaders. We have surveyed them, mea-
sured their hops and skips and jumps,
and tried to see if good health is preva-
lent. In general, we find that it is not.

Day by day the world shrinks. Our
neighbors, around us and on the other
side of the globe, are creeping closer.

We have a greater intimate knowledge
of what they are doing, of what their
boys and girls consider as fun and
sport, of how they can jump. In some
comparisons, our children have been
judged less than second best.

Naturally, it is not an entirely nega-
tive picture. We have many recreation
outlets for youngsters. We are proud
of the crowded playgrounds and our
expanding leagues; but there are too
many Marys and Toms enjoying only
passive recreation. Also, exercise should
take many forms, not just baseball and
football all year.

In these facts we find the basis for
our youth fitness program. These are
the needs.

We began in 1957. During the sum-
mer we presented a Junior Olympic
Day and in the winter a Future Olym-
pians program. Events held were in ac-
tivities that are not the glamour sports
of this country: tumbling, weightlifting,
lnass ealisthenies, chinning, push-ups,
dashes, running,'hop, step, and jump,
running broad jump, standing broad
jump, softball throw, shuttle relays,
marching, and so on. On the play-
grounds and in the recreation centers,
where the city-wide events were initi-
ated, the boys and girls did not stand by

RECREATION

 

The trophy winners. Two hundred thousand youngsters took
part in over-all Olympic nieet. A thousand finalists eompeted.

 

John Considiue, Detroit's parks and reereation superintend-
ent, (left) and Dr. Shane MacCarthy view display of trophies.

. . . about our children’s fitness

and watch their playmates. They took
part; skill wasn’t the important thing;
ability to hit a home run did not enter.

The program was received enthusias-
tically. Our sons and daughters had fun
and they benefitted physically at the
same time. That was the beginning.
Last year we joined forces with our
neighbors.

In March, all communities in the De-
troit metropolitan area were invited to
a luncheon meeting at the Belle Isle
Casino, to discuss plans for a combined
effort in youth fitness. Twenty-two cities
responded, sending representatives, and
other communities expressed interest.

A connnittee, chosen to draft over-
all specifications for a Youth Fitness
Day, included: Robert E. Cirardin of
Birmingham; John T. Dufour of Dear-
born; Edward T. McGowan, Stanley
Kracht and Frank Vaydik of Detroit;
Herb E. Woolweaver of Plymouth; John
A. Streit of Pontiac; Dennis P. Versele
of lioseville; George Kaufman of St.
Clair Shorcs; and Benjamin Yack of
\Vyandotte.

Each city planned its own Youth Fit-
ness Day of various activities, events.
and ceremonies. and the winners in each
competitivc cvent reprcsentcd their city
as a team in a Gala Detroit Metropoli-

Amm. 195‘)

tan Youth Fitness Day at Belle Isle on
July 31. Approximatcly two hundred
thousand youngsters participated in the
over-all, summer-long planned activities
of this particular program at the play-
grounds of all cities, one hundred thou-
sand in Detroit alone. The Belle Isle
athletic field was dccorated with bunt-
ing, flags, and signs. The layout in-
cluded jumping pits, running lanes,
chin-up bars, softball throw areas,
warm-up areas, hleachcrs, officials’
stands, and a band. Age groups were:
Class A: fourtcen and fifteen years; B:
twelve and thirteen; C: ten and eleven
years. Boys were white shorts and T-
shirts, and girls donned white tailored
blouses and shorts.

This was the bonding agent for De-
troit and its metropolitan communities,
in our first unified program tailored to

\Veal t [I

The future of the state lies not
in the richness of its soil or in
the wealth of diversity of its mines
and factories, but in the energy,
character, and intelligence of its

children.

—-VmclL M. Hmcnen

 

the basic concepts of President Eiscn-
hower’s Council on Youth Fitness . . .
the first of many, I trust.

Despite a steady soft rain, the day
was an inspiring success. Mayors and
recreation superintendents from the
twenty-three member cities were there
to watch the proceedings and to cheer
their own entries. One thousand boy
and girl finalists contested for trophies.

At the luncheon, the mayors and rec-
reation officials voiced enthusiastic ap-
proval of the over-all youth fitness
program and stated they were definitely
in favor of eontinuing the joint com-
munity arrangement. In fact. there was
a spirited bidding for the honor of host-
ing the Fitness Day this year.

This buoyant reception was reward-
ing. In our attempt to have every boy
and girl involved in some physical ac-
tivity and to instill the ideals of this
country in them, we are now even more
confident of the intrinsic value and
good of the program.

The running lancs have faded at the
field now, and the hunting is stored,
but the real, visual remindcr of this
youth fitness program can bc seen in
the healthier looks of the two hundred
thousand youngsters who took part.
They carry Fitncss Day with them. #

139

Good leaders are developed lhrongh prac-

Eric Runacres

Who’s Responsible
for Leadership

in Sports?

Do we face the reality
of a changing world?

5 THE participant the forgotten man in sports leadership?

13 his role nowadays solely that of consumer? Time was
when the participant was both the consumer of the “pro-
duct” and the provider. Then, leadership in sports was a
siniplc niattcr of gctting the gang together for a game of
shinny 011 the local pond.

Some people express a fond yearning for “the good old
days” when sport was entirely in the hands of the consumer.
“Let’s give sports hack to the kids!” is their battle cry. They
fail to face the reality of a changing world where activities
and methods of the past often do not meet the needs of our
complex society.

Fortunately for youth, we have found a medium for meet-
ing certain of today’s needs in sports. Sport has grown up.
It is no longer simply an outlct for physical activity; it has
become a means to an educational end. It is in connection
with this educational goal that the leadership role of the
participant finds real meaning.

If we believe that sports activities in our society providc
opportunities for learning, then we must give thought to the
outcomes we want from this mcdium. It is precisely this
need for careful planning to achieve desirable outcomes
that was missing in the “good old days.” Thousands of
youngsters participated in the laissez-faire sports programs
in the past, but if they learned anything other than physical
skills and how to “take care” of themselves, it was purely
accidental. Similarly, today, we must not say blithely that
participation in sports will automatically produce desirable
learning in the realm of character development and leader-
ship training. In fact, negative values are possible; positive
ones will not be achieved unless we plan for them.

 

Reprinted with permission from the Community Courier,
May-June, 1958, published by Community Programmes
Branch, Department of Education, Toronto, Canada. MR.
RUNACRES is inspector of physical and health education in
the Ontario Department of Education.

140

lice in leadership.

 

One desirable one for which we can plan is that of lead-
ership training through leadership practice. Research in
this field reveals that leaders are developed through an ac-
tion medium rather than by a passive study of what makes
a good leader. This puts sports in the forefront. Leadership
training cannot take place in a vacuum; sports activities
fill the vacuum. Although research shows that leaders are
superior to nonleaders in intelligence, scholarship or know-
ledge, vitality, self-confidence, and social adaptability, it is
not cnough to identify these traits and talk about the ways
they can be developed in the individual. We must provide
ample opportunity for potcntial leaders to practice leader-
ship.

The general conditions for leadership training have been
summarized by H. Link as follows: ample group participa—
tion; intcnse group participation including games and
sports; experience in followership as well as leadership .

All the above conditions can be met in a planned sports
program. If young people are given a chance to practice
leadership, thcy will do themselves and the program a great
service. Here are untapped resources awaiting development.
If we were to launch a crash program, to make use of the
leadership potential of our youth, startling results would
be evident within a few years. We would, to some degree,
be giving the program “hack to the kids,” but we would
also be playing a role that would ensure planning for de-
sirable outcomes.

The real question now hecomes: “How are we to plan for
lcadership developmcnt in our sports program?” If we
recognize that our sports program provides us with learn-
ing situations, then we can plan through these four major
steps: determining the objectives of the program; planning
the program; implementing the program; and evaluating
the program.

Let us consider each of these in order.

RECREATION

ln many sports programs, we are fully aware of “what”
is going on, but the why is frequently missing. A few per-
sons, usually the director, are aware of the objectives; to
others they remain obscure. If we are to open the door of
learning we must allow participants to determine their own
objectives within the broad framework of the program.
Team players should meet with their coaches, to discuss the
implication of sportsmanship, cooperation. unselfishness,
obedience to the spirit of the law, and other desirable fea-
tnres for which we plan. Key youth leaders should plan ways
to make everyone aware of the program objectives.
Once these have been established, the participants must
be involved when program details are considered. Planning
committees of senior and youth leaders can be used to de-

op nearly all phases of the program. If participants are
'nvolved in this way, they will be committed to the program
in a manner never seen in an autocratieally directed system.
The participants and the senior “counselors” are now
ready to implement the program. Here is. where the parti-
cipant can be expected to give the very best of which he is
capable. Here is where cnthusiasm, desire, creativity, and
energy have their outlet. Let us direct this natural flow.of
interest into many channels.
There seems to be a tendency on the part of some sports
organizers to hand the program to youth on a golden platter.
They, in turn, evince a tendency to expect too much while
giving too little; if the rink is not cleared of snow, com-
plaints seem to be a natural consequence, and so on. Turn
over to youth and to their peer leaders many of the admin-
istrative jobs we now give to adults. Let them clean the ice,
handle the tickets, keep the books, manage and coach
younger teams, distribute equipment, arrange for olIicials

   
  
  
 
  
   
   
    
    
    
  
   
    
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
    
  
  
   
    
  

Prekindergarten

Playgrounds

After seven years of successful opera-
tion, we believe that the prekindergar-
tcn playgrounds, operated by the city of
anitowoc, Wisconsin, Recreation De-
partment are a big asset to our summer
recreation program. Our reports prove
that, over a period of eight weeks, there
is no drop in attendance. Can any of
our other departments or our regular
playgrounds make this claim?
The prekindergarten playgrounds are
conducted in the city parks where there
Ire shade trees and many grassy areas.
Youngsters are brought by parents or
ldcr brothers or sisters, in most cases,
(1 are handed over to the care of

mu. 1959

adults. Activities are conducted from
9:30 A.M. to 11:30 A.M. and from 1:30
P.M. to 3 :30 RM. Activities are the same
as those planned for regular school
kindergartens, including coloring, cut-
ting out paper dolls, singing, games,
story hour, sand and clay modeling,
and special events. Circus week and
fairyland story week help fill out the
program. Miniature gardens are planted
in boxes so they can watch things grow.

and olliciate themselves, decorate the dance hall, clean up
after events, dig the pits, and so on. l’rovide counselor-type
senior leaders to offer guidance and directionr-from the
“rear seat”—and then sit back and watch the enthusiasm
and the resulting positive learning. Certainly mistakes will
he made, but what a thrill to see learning taking place, which
is far superior to the young people’s being put through
their paces without gaining insight into what is going on
and why.

The final step of our learning process is probably the most
important but also the most neglected. Evaluation should
be made, in the light of established objectives, and should
result in growth. If we have involved the participants in all
the steps up to this point then evaluation may follow easily.
Planning committees should periodically take a searching
look at their progress. During the program operation, evalu-
ation opportunities exist by the score. Coaches and teams
can meet to discuss what evidence they have seen of good
sportsmanship and cooperation. These and other evaluation
situations result in generalizations, which will ensure trans-
fer of these desirable outcomes to daily living.

Would it not be a red-letter day if the coach would use
his team to evaluate his coaching ability? This is not “ask-
ing for the moon.” In fact, just as the moon is within our
reach at the present, so is this type of evaluation being done
by enlightened coaches; and the results are highly profitable.

Much has alreadg been done, especially where there are
professionally trained recreation directors, to guide the
policy. My plea is for even more use of youth leadership,
coupled with more careful planning for desirable outcomes.

Sports leadership—whose responsibility? Naturally it is
the responsibility of ALL engaged in the program. #

 

The youngsters have the opportunity
to play in kiddie pools, furnished by the
Manitowoc Kiwanis Club, and once a
week we hold savings-stamp day.

Many of the mothers and a number
of teachers have mentioned that young-
sters who have attended the prekinder-
garten playgrounds have a fine start
and a much easier time when school
begins in September.—A. J. Scrum,
rccrcalion director, Manirowoc.

141

 

 

   

A REPORTER’S NOTEBOOK

 

Meet Mr. Cieero

The Association announces the em-
ployment of Richard K. Cicero, to serve
as special field representative in arts
and crafts, succeeding Frank Staples,
who recently retired after twenty-two
years with NRA. Mr. Cicero comes to
us from the board of education of Dear-
born, Michigan, where he taught arts
and crafts in the public schools.

He is a graduate of the University
of Illinois, where he majored in art
education and received his diploma in
fine arts. While there he also studied
the hasie principles of recreation un-
der the tutelage of Charles Brightbill.

Mr. Cicero will mainly provide craft
training to the armed services, but is
also available for this function at the
community level.

   

Richard K. Cicero

Frank A. Staples

While with the Association, Mr.
Staples also gave extensive service to
military posts, hoth in this country and
overseas, in, addition to filling regular
requests from ricereation departments.
He was recipient of a special awar
from the U. S‘JAir Force-upon his re-
tirement from the'Nafioiia1_,Recreation
Association. ‘ “ i i '

Fitness

0 Teenage girls in Oceanside, New
York, clamor for “tumbling”——a cir-
cumstance which is sure-fire proof of a
good program, under good leadership.
l“The girls’ gymnastics program under
the sponsorship of Oceanside Recrea-
tion would normally have begun in
mid-winter, but because of a mass ap-

-142

peal from hundreds of teenage girls,
the gymnastics and tumbling program
has already started,” wrote the local
Oceanside Beacon, in November. Ap-
proximately one hundred girls are par-
ticipating each Wednesday night, under
the leadership of trained recreation
leaders. Tumbling, gymnastics, and ap-
paratus work are featured, and more
girls are turning up each week.

0 A Youth Fitness Test Manual is
available from the American Associa-
tion for Health, Physical Education,
and Recreation, 1201 16th Street, N.W.,
Washington 6, D.C., for fifty cents. It
consists of a battery of seven test items
for the gym or playground, and three
aquatic texts, all for grades five through
twelve. For comparative purpOses, per-
ccntile tables based on age and on the
Neilson-Cozens Classification Index
have been prepared. The manual is
based on AAHPER’s 1957 survey of
eighty-five hundred boys and girls in
grades five through twelve.

0 Leadership for Fitness is a new
20ominute, 16mm, sound/color film
produced by the Gillette Razor Blade
Company, in cooperation with the Uni-

.ted States Military Academy at West

Point. While the film portrays cadet
life at the academy, the emphasis is on
“athletics [and fitness] for all.” Prin-
ciples can be applied to school, college,

d ("and agency sports programs. The film

is available on free loan from Modern
Talking Picture Service, 21 West 60th
Street, New York 23.

Roeketry Seminars

Saturday seminars in rocket science
are now open to all amateur rocket sei-
entists registered with the First Army
Program for Safe Teen Age Rocketry
and to adult advisors of organized rock-
at groups. The seminars, sponsored by
the First Army, New York University,
and the Polytechnic Institute of Brook-

lyn, New York, are being held from now
until June at the NYU campus in the
Bronx, New York. This is part of the
First Army’s program to guide amateur
rocket enthusiasm—and missiles— into
safe orbits (RECREATION, April, 1958,
page 110).

Ten Commandments of Sports

Interesting reading came our way
from the Oneida (New York) Youth
Bureau, in their 1957 annual report,
which included the following “com-
mandments” for sports. (These tie in
with “Who’s Responsible for Leader-
ship in Sports?” on page 140 of this
issue.)

They are:

1. Thou shalt not quit.

2. Thou shalt not alibi.

3. Thou shalt not gloat over winning.
4. Thou shalt not sulk over losing.

5. Thou shalt not take unfair advan-
tage.

6. Thou shalt not ask odds thou art un-
willing to give.

7. Thou shalt always be willing to give
thine opponent the benefit of the doubt.
8. Thou shalt not underestimate an op-
ponent or overestimate thyself.

9. Remember that the game is the thing,
and he who thinks otherwise is no true
sportsman.

10. Honor the game thou playest, for
he who plays the game straight and
hard, wins even when he loses.

Post these on your bulletin boards,
mimeograph them, hand out to individ-
ual players, and watch for improvement

in sportsmanship.

Keep Ameriea
Beautiful Con ferenee

Despite the cutting wind and the
damp, snowy weather over Washing-
ton’s Birthday weekend, the turn-out,
representing ten federal agencies, fifty-
five national nonprofit civic and ser-
vice organizations, and many American
business corporations, for the two-day

meeting was very good. The conference
was held at the Waldorf-Astoria, in

New York City.

By unanimous vote, Alfred B. La
Casse, executive secretary of the Ameri-
can Institute of Park Executives, Wheel-
ing, West Virginia, was elected chair-
man of the Keep America Beautiful

_National Advisory Council. A] replaces

RECREATION

 

Dr. D. J. Roberts, Queens College (New
York) faculty member representing the
National Education Association: on the
KAB Advisory Council. The National
Recreation Association is represented
on the council by Joseph Prendergast,
its executive director and first chairman
of the council.

 

l'ark service officials discuss antilitter
movement at recent national conference
in New York City. They are, left to
right: the Reverend Warren 0st, New
York City, director, A Christian Minis-

try in the National Parks, National Coun-
oil of the Churches of Christ in the

U. S. A.; James J. Cullinane, Washing-
ton. D. C., chief of information, National

Park Service; Alfred B. La Cassc, AlPE;
Cecil l’. Dawson, president, KAB; and
Cornelius Ileinc, W'ashington, D. C. Na-
tion-a] Capital Parks. The Reverend Ost
is the son-in-law of NRA’s George Nesbitt.

Another high spot was the after-
lunch showing of an excellent color
film, running time approximately four-
teen minutes, called America the Beau-
tiful, financed by the Richfield Oil Com-
pany of California. It shows graphically
how fast the litterbug can turn the mag-
nificent beauties of our country into a
garbage- and litter-ridden nightmare.
The film’s main theme was that the fifty-
ty-million-dollar-a-year litter clean-up
bill is not caused by the professional
Sloppy Joe but by you and me, with that
casual toss of a piece of paper. For
further information about the film’s
distribution and availability, get in
touch, directly, with John T. Soltmann,
executive vice-president, Keep America
Beautiful, 99 Park Avenue, New York
16. '

Valued Contributions

Five annual awards were bestowed
by The American Scenic and Historic
Preservation Society at the society’s an-
nual awards luncheon,January 21,when
president Alexander Hamilton present-
ed the following:

The George McAneny Historic Pres-
eraation Medal, to Mrs. Katherine Pren-
tjs Murphy of New York City.

The Horace Harden Albrigllt Scenic
Preservation Medal to Conrad L. \Virth,

APRIL 1959

director, National Park Service, Wash-
ington, D. C. (Bulletin: Mr. Wirth has
been further honored by the National
Civil Service League award as one of
the ten top career men in the federal
government for 1959. The league is a
nonpartisan citizens organization: for
better government through better per-
sonnel.)

The Cornelius Amory Pugsley Med-
alsntliese of particular interest to rec-
reation people— were awarded to:

Gold to Eivind T. Scoyen, associate
director, National Park Service, for
“distinguished service and exceptional
competence in furthering the objectives
of the National Park Service. . . .”

Silver to Thomas W. Morse, for “im-

aginative planning and direction of the
deveIOpment and operation of the out-
standing state park system of North
Carolina, with special emphasis on the
quality of the experience derived by
park visitors, and for valuable contri-
butions in the state park field made
through the National Conference on
State Parks and the Association of
Southeastern State Park Directors.”

A posthumous bronze medal was
awarded to Walter L. Wirth for “dis-
tinguished service in the professional
advancement of park and recreation ad-
ministrators, especially for leadership
in the reorganization of the educational
program of the American Institute of
Park Executives and his accomplish-
ments as superintendent of parks in
Salem, Oregon.”

Duke of Edinburgh Award

Britain’s teenagers have found the
Duke of Edinburgh Award plan “an in-
troduction. to leisure-time activities and
a challenge to personal achievement.”
The award scheme was developed and
organized by Sir John Hunt, leader of
the victorious Everest Expedition of
1953.

The program consists of achievement
in four areas: rescue and public service
training, a planned expedition, pur-
suits, and physical fitness. Entrants in
various age-level groups must reach a
certain standard in all four sections to
obtain an award. The standard is not
exceptionally high; it has been put de-
libcrately within the reach of the aver-
age boy who has application and ver-
satility. (Details in another issue.)

Jury Duty

NRA’s own Amy llenly, director of
our Special Publications Department,
was one of the judges in the recent
third annual Army Service Club Con-
test, held February at Governors Island,
New York. The contest, conducted by
means of scrapbooks prepared by in-

stallation service club stalls, was won
by tiny Fort llancock, Sandy llook,
New Jersey, which nosed out sprawling
Fort Dix, on highest total points scored.
The prize money will be used to further
enhance service club programs.

 

The judges were, standing, left to right:
Eleanor C.'Collie, editorial staff of Can:-
den (N. J.) Courier-Post; Lt. Col. Robert
F. Curran, deputy information ofliccr,
First Army; and Harold Hansen, assist-
ant director of public relations, l’aradc
Publications. Scaled, left to right, are:
Dr. Edith L. Ball, associate professor,
school ofeducation, NewYork University;
Dorothy M. Finley, executive director,
USO Division, National YWCA Board;
and Miss llenly.

 

3n Erranriam

 

0 Art Scott, senior supervisor in the
area-wide recreation program operated
by Boeing Aircraft in Seattle, Washing-
ton, died in February. Mr. Scott estab-
lished Boeing’s company-assisted but
employee-operated programs. As a fel-
low worker put it, “And this is a real
monument to Art Scott.”

0 Ruth Barker Franklin, who served on
the Newport, Rhode Island, Recreation
Commission for forty years, died re-
cently at the age of ninety-four. A for-
mer teacher, and long-time friend of
the National Recreation Association,
Miss Franklin’s interest in children led
to her activity in playground work; she
judged sandbox contests, spoke at New-
port’s annual Joseph Lee Day. As one
who had grown up in an area where
there were no playgrounds, she consid-
cred them a tremendous innovation.

143

Helen M. Dauncey

GOOD TRAINING FOR LEADERS

Is your playground “alive” and
humming or dull and monotonous?
Leadership makes all the digerence.

P LAYCROUNDS are very important places!

It is rather alarming to think of the hundreds of
young men and women who accept the job of playground
leadership with too little notion of the philosophy of recrea-
tion; their real responsibilities; how far-reaching their in-
lluence may be in..the lives of the youngsters; and the age-
level characteristics and needs of the children with whom
they will be working.

Although it is a generally accepted practice to have a
brief training period for; these leaders before they assume
their duties, this is too often “a cramming of details con-
ccrncd with the mechanics of the job: reports, attendance
records, work hours, department policies, and so on. Too
little time is given to basic philosophy, emphasis on the
challenge of the job, or help in understanding the needs of
the boys and girls who will come to the playgrounds.

What Is a Playground Anyway?

The definition given by Howard Braueher, many years
ago, is hard to improve upon. “A playground is a place
where the child may do well and happily what he most wants
to do now and will want to do later.”

Here, in a few words, is brought out the teaching of skills
(in order to do well); the climate of the playground (a
happy relaxed atmosphere) ; the importantelement of choice,
which underlies all recreation programs; and the emphasis
on learning activities that may become life-long interests.

Playgrounds should not be thought of as a separate entity
but as part of the total program for the community. They
serve children in their out-of-school hours, teenagers in
their free time, parents through participation on committees
or as volunteers, and the entire family through community
nights or special programs.

Type of Person Needed

What kind of persons are needed for this important area
of recreation service? Basically those who enjoy working
with people, especially youngsters and young people, and
whose warmth of personality and friendliness attract others.
People who have skills and interests and a desire to share
them with others. One could make a long list of desirable
qualities, including enthusiasm, imagination, emotional ma-
turity, a sense of humor, and so on; but beyond these im-
portant personal qualifications, a leader must have the

M155 DAUNCEY is Katherine E. Barker Memorial Secretary
for Women and Girls of the National Recreation Association.

14-1

ability to plan, organize, and promote a wide range of ac-
tivities.

A playground is like a three-ring circus, with many ac-
tivities going on simultaneously. Unless a leader can or-
ganize, delegate responsibility, develOp leadership within
the group, and use volunteers, chaos can result.

Helping in scheduling and emphasis on the need of shar-
ing one’s time with all age groups on the playground should
be stressed in training sessions. It is here that new and in-
experienced leaders discover some real problems.

Help is also needed with behavior problems. Not too many
years ago, leaders were told that if children were busy and
happy there would be few disciplinary problems. While this
is still true to a great extent, the fact must be recognized
that today it is common to find some emotionally disturbed
children in any large group. These children do need help,
but sometimes they are not ready for group participation,
and their presence can be a most disrupting influence on the
program. Unfortunately, it is not too unusual to have some
teenage gangs who hang around and heckle the leader and
the group, which is trying to be c00perative. Some sug-
gestions of procedure need to he discussed. An inexperienced
leader needs to know what to do when the situation shows
signs of getting out of hand.

Procedures

Too many leaders. fail to recognize the need for setting
up good teaching situations for basic skills or the relation-
ship of this to increased participation. The familiar steps
of preparation, motivation, organization, explanation, play-
ing, and evaluation are needed on a playground as much as
in a school program.

It is not enough to hand leaders a bulging playground
manual with directions for dozens of games. The important
thing is to demonstrate these games and to point out tech-
niques of presenting them, safety factors to be considered,
variations to suit the number of players, et cetera.

Low organized games, backbone of any good playground
program, should be experienced by the leader if he is to
stimulate interest in them. These games include circle, line,
relay, tag, area chasing, group contests, individual stunts,
and quiet games. They are ideal for playground use because
they may be adapted to any number of players, almost any
type of play area, require little or no equipment, and pro-
vide for a coming and going of players which is typical of
most playground situations. It is most important that any
leader have a good repertoire of these games in his head.

RECREATION

  
 
 
 
  

Webster says,
“a polyhedron of twenty faces.”

Translated,

it’s the strongest, best balanced car-

cass pattern that can be applied to
a ball.

} i/co-sa-he/dron
l
s

 

The new label tells part of the story . . .

There’s that word—icosahedron—and, behind it, an odd
sort of geometric figure.

It means that, for the first time, fundamental mathematics
have been applied to ball building—creating a perfect,
predetermined pattern—placing a uniform nylon carcass
on every new Voit ball.

That’s why Voit chose to depart from more than a genera-
tion of manufacturing and sales philosophy to market this
new type of ball.

After countless control tests and five years of field testing,
the most cautious authorities in the sporting goods busi-
ness are convinced that this is the finest ball ever made.

And, you can prove it . . .

 

ooaaoeo

Until Now. . .

There have been a number of man-
ufacturzng methods.

In its continued growth, the indus-
try has pioneered and dereloped a
variety of ways to build a ball—
each with its adrantages and its
limitations.

The all-rubber ball, came on the
scene a gene-ration ago, proriding
economical performance' and sub-
stantially better wear than leather.
But. in order to retain the shape of
the ball and to strengthen it for
the beating taken during continual
play, the ball needed some form
of structural reinforcement—a car—

Co t‘d-tt‘i‘i’tdi‘t‘l-Q came into being as an

ea rlu, improred method of reinforc-

mg the ball. But. in giring it struc-

tural strength. it also created a.

problem that was bmlt into every
all.

The random. corerage of threads
often loosened—taking a toll m
uneren wear. lumps and,sof t spots
——eausing the ball to go out-of-
round.

Voit abandoned this method. mak-
ing a genuine stride forward by
derelOping a fabric lining that pro-
rided a strong, uniform bonding
orer the bladder and beneath the
carer.

Voit’s “single pole” application
ofered near-perfect corerage in
multiple layers, but—since the car-
cuss was built by hand—even this

 

ceptible to human error and left

most adranced method was sus-

The Greeks had a word for it. . .

But it took years of research by Voit’s best technica'
personnel, the enthusiastic assistance of several theo-
retical mathematicians, and astronomers from one 01
the nation’s leading observatories to find the answer

And, of course, it had been there all the time . . . since
ancient Greece . . . neatly tucked away in the back 01

anybody’s geometry text . . .

 

m
/

'11 United States and foreign amcle, apparatus,

It’s a perfectly symmetrica
polyhedron, possessing th
absolute maximum number 0
equidistant points that can b1
placed on a sphere, making i
the. strongest, IICSI balance:
carcass pattern that can i)
applied to a hall.

Next, place that pattern on
sphere and repeat it countles
times until it uniformly cover
and contains the sphere.

N ow, convert that theory, the
formula, to highly comple
battery of machines t’liét'a'r
full automated and capable 0
precise performance. To guid
these machines get the ver
latest digital computer to prc
vide an electronic guidanc
system, monitoring thes
machines for accuracy an
control every Split second du1
ing fabrication.

Then, provide those machinc
with the most advanced syr
thetic filaments to spi
repeated, predetermined pa‘
terns on the bladder . . . ove
and over again.

Voit die

methods and machine patents applied for.

 
 

LET’S BUILD AN ENTIRELY NEW BALL...

Start with the best butyl bladder, containing
Voit's superior self-lubricating valve.

Then, watch the filaments being placed on the
bladder at the lirst set of poles. (Fig. 1)

  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
 
    
 
   
   
 
 
 
   
 

Yard after yard of nylon is spun on to the

carcass, and every strand is working as the

machine makes a predetermined shift to a

new set of poles. (Fig. 2)

The electronically-controlled machine contin-

ues until it completes a winding cycle at each I - '
of 12 poles. Take a very careful look and you’ll

Fig. 1 see the first icosahedron pattern. (Fig. 3) Fig 1

 

After countless repetitions of this basic icosa-
hedron pattern, each originating from a dif-
ferent set of poles, the bladder is uniformly
and completely covered. (Fig. 4)

Each strand of nylon is then impregnated
with a sealing agent until it can be forever .
locked in place—f used into a super-strong,
continuous carcass by precision curing in a .
I ri-h- .'

smooth mold.

The finished carcass is a perfectly smooth
sphere, providing an ideal base for the cover
which is now assured of absolutely uniform _
thickness. (Fig. 5)

 

Fig. 5
The. cover itself is an entirer new composi-
tion, and a new applicable process assures
uniform thickness. This means cxceptional

performance and “feel” plus wear qualities

that surpass any other type cover on the
market. (Fig. 6)

The important news about the new Voit
Icosahedron ball is that the buyer is now
assured of balanced wear. The finest carcass
can’t give full vaIUe without an equally fine
cover. The most durable cover is of little value
with an inferior carcass.

 

Fig, 3 Voit’s balanced icosahedron construction combines:

0 Maximum carcass life

0 Maximum cover wear

0 Complete uniformity

o Ollicial performance for the
life of the hall

  
 

arid the test resuhs prore it . . .

Here’s a summary of a few of the more significant tests to which
any ball can be put —— in the laboratory or in actual play —— show-
ing how the new Voit Icosahedron ball scores in some of the most

important test categories.
The Proof *

For those interested in detailed technical results, your Voit repre-
sentative will be more than pleased to provide specific information
on performance, life, shape retention, weight, inflation, cover
wear, weather resistance and many others.

But, here’s a sample:

1. PERFORMANCE LIFE" 2. SHAPE RETENTION” 3. COVER WEAR RESISTANCE“

HII- ___
I
-" '—-’ ' "-' —" " '~ "- '-"---—-—-—I-1I F ~ .I I!  -- - ———'—--——-—— —-————. : I. - - -
r  I -i -. I
- l r w—ffl — — --
r' r - - _ _ g i
r -‘ . 1 I- — —.
' .r . . : _'.._._"l'. a
' ' _.‘I. I
_ I
1 -
I i I - a. I
r t I. -
.l I I
B C C

 
   
 

A A B c

VOIT COMPETITORS VOIT COMPETITORS VOIT COMPETITORS
Measured by standard bounce machine and Measuring the hidden weaknesses that come Measured by bounce machine andTaberAbrader.
shaper tests to the end of usable life. Some from carcass failure, a lump, a blister. an area This is an important feature. of course. But
balls fail because of rapid cover wear while where a seam has weakened and out-of- it is only one important ingredient in the total
others become so badly misshapen that the roundness has begun. Often the cover is as strength, life and performance of any ball.
test can no longer be continued. good as new when the ball becomes unplayable.

We’ve talked a great deal
about absolute uniform-
ity in manufacture, and
part of the proof is in the
weight. The Rule Books
allow a 1 ounce tolerance,
plus or minus. The pre-
cise production control on
the new Voit Icosahedron You may have some other
ball permits less than 14 ounce variance. Test it tests of your own, but this

Yourself ! much is certain: The old standards no longer

, , . apply. The new Voit Icosahedron ball has set new
we made a lama] teSt that we don t I ecommend you} standards by which to judge the worth of any ball.

trying. It introduced some ear-splitting testimony we know what the new ban win do.
to the balanced construction of the new Voit ball! We respectfully suggest you prove it to yourself .. .

Placing an inflating needle
in the ball, we let the pres-
sure build. After taking an
incredible amount of infla-
tion, the ball shattered into
a number of small pieces—
rather than experiencing a
blow-out at a weak point.
There are no weak points in
the new Voit ball.

   

Buy thongit £8? lcosa-
hedron Basketballs.

Put them into test along
with those of any other

manufacturer—for wear,
@011 @OII/l performance, and “feel”.

, If “they” dd 713(7) utpe r-
 $(Ic/13 form all others. return

   

Jilizeubaé gringo!
yMrKL (gagur’K-nwn/

them to us with your

_/ test results and your

 f comments and we will

 refund to yoHUJthice
their full‘tojr'ice- .

Subsidiary of Amerlcon Machine 8 Foundry Company
New York It Chicago 11 los Angeles 11

 

“'hal kind of persons are needed for this important area of
service? Those who are naturally friendly and enjoy the young.

lt wou'd be most desirable to have every leader do every
game he will have on his ground—box hockey, tetherhall,
deck tennis, paddle tennis, four squares, quoits, croquet,
jacks. checkers, dominoes, clock golf, and so on. Experi-
enced leaders could be used in much of this game demon-
stration as part of the training program. It eould even be
conducted like a progressive games party, with groups pro-
gressing from one game to the next. This might seem like
a waste of time, but actually it is important for a leader to
have done a game before he can promote it, and vagueness,
on his part, about the rules does not inspire confidence in
the youngsters. Volleyball, hathall, kickball, and other team
games should be demonstrated; the rules made clear; and,
if possible, some experience provided in refereeing.

Theoretically, we are hiring people who already know
how to do these things; hut. let’s be honest and face the fact
that most of our young leaders do not know how to do them.
Unless they are given some help the program suffers and
the children are cheated. Men leaders usually know their
baseball and spftball hut are weak in areas outside of learn
«sports. Music, arts and crafts, simple dramatics, and nature
activities all need more stimulation than a statement of
their worth in the program. Here, again, a “do-it-yourself”
method is most effective.

Attitudes

One of the things that needs emphasis in a training pro-
gram is that the easy,.relaxed, informal atmosphere of a
playground does not mean dispensing with professional
_. Personal appearance, speech, manner of dealing
with youngsters, attitude toward the job, and so on are of
great importance, for they set the tone of the whole play-

'1'!
H
m
3
“.—
G:
H
C—
It

A PR”. 1959

ground. The appearance of the grounds, the liveliness of the
program. and the behavior of the children can he spotted
quickly by any visitor. Young leaders must realize they rep-
resent the recreation department even though they are sea-
sonal workers. Lazy, indifferent, inadequate leaders can set
hack the whole cause of recreation in any cmnmunity.

Youngsters’ Needs

Our youngsters today have many needs which can be met
by the playground program. l'nless leaders are aware of
these things, they will not plan or eondnct the program in
a way to fulfill them. They are:

0 Opportunities for success and recognition. These can be
provided by a rich and varied program and one which rec-
ognizes individual skills and interests.

0 To learn the give and take of relationships with others.
A good leader utilizes every playground activity and situa-
tion to emphasize this.

0 To learn respect for authority, property, rules of the
game, and good sportsmanship. This need seems to inerease
each year!

0 To learn courtesy and good manners. Of course, this is
done best by example of the leader in his dealings with the
children, but it can also be done through all activities. We
sometimes forget that almost any game situation presents
built-in opportunities for the display of courtesy and good
manners toward one’s fellow players or opponents or in
relation to decisions.

0 To learn basic skills, which underlie enjoyment of any
activity—games, sports, arts and crafts, or drama.

0 To learn traditional games, rhythms and stories, which
helong to childhood and should be part of their heritage.
0 To have opportunities for vigorous play and exercise.
Any adult leader today must be aware of the lack of muscu-
lar strength, energy, stamina, and endurance many of our
boys and girls show.

0 The opportunity to talk with an adult leader who likes
them and is intcrested in them.

Whatever is done on the playground should he evaluated
in terms of what the ehild has learned or experienced during
participation in the activity. It is not so much what is done
as how it is done. It is of great importance to get this across
to leaders.

One cannot help but be aware of the tendency everywhere
to use activities with the elementary-school-age boys and
girls normally belonging to the teenage or even adult lcvel.
Unless leaders have some understanding of child growth and
development, they will not realize that, mentally, physically,
and emotionally, children may not be ready for certain ac-
tivities. Some discussion of this should be part of the train-
ing program, and leaders should he encouraged to study the
age-level eharacteristics of children (RECREATION, March,
1959, page 88) .

In my observation, there is too little consideration of the
individual child's needs in much of our program plannin".
It is too easy to assume that you work with a group of ehild-
ren rather than with the child in a group. There is a differ-
ence. A playground leader‘s job is one of relationships; not

145

 

only his relationship to the youngster, but to department
supervisors, parents, neighbors, and the community in which
he works. These should be discussed in the training sessions
preceding the grounds opening and also in the in-service
training program whieh—hopefully—continues during the
season.

Some help is needed in helping young workers evaluate
themselves and their programs. This is difficult to do in a
general staff meeting or in the short and hurried visits to
grounds usually made by the playground supervisor. It
might better be done on a conference basis.

Playgrounds are good places in which to look for future
workers in the recreation profession. Some of our best lead-
ership has come up through playgrounds—first as partici-
pants, then as junior and senior leaders. Department su-
pervisors should be on the lookout for promising young
leaders who might be attracted to the profession. Play-

ground leaders should watch for boys and girls who show
real leadership qualities and give them guidance and op-
portunities to take responsibility.

Of all the factors needing emphasis in training leaders,
surely enthusiasm for the job rates high on the list. With-
out it the playground is a dull, monotonous place, and it
does not take long for the children to discover this fact. It
is not just a job for the summer. It is a wonderful oppor-
tunity to help children grow and develop, and a great chal-
lenge to make the summer a time of fun, learning, and ad-
venture. Unless a young man or woman can approach his
work with this attitude, he is not a good candidate for em-
ployment.

I have always liked the statement that it is the bait not
the fisherman that catches the fish. We’d all better take an-

other look at the bait we are using for children of the space

age! #

 

RECREATION SCHOOL IN THE MIDWEST

Four years ago the Midwest District
Advisory Committee of the National
Recreation Association, reporting on
the in-service training needs of the dis-
trict, suggested that something be done
in the way of training on the adminis-
trative level, especially for the busy ex-
ecutive. Further study revealed that the
executives would support a one-week
training school if conducted on an aca-
demic level. After securing supporting

data from each of the state universities
in the district, the University of Kansas
was selected by the committee because
it offered the greatest advantages as to
housing, faculty, willingness to hold the
training school, and its centralized lo-

eatiou. Time has proven the value of
this choice, for the University of Kansas
has done a remarkable job over these
past three years.

The three schools, offered during

 

Recreation executives listening to Les Lynch, of NRA’s planning staff, lecture at
last year’s training school for administrators, conducted at the University of hansas.

146

February of 1957, 1958, and 1959, were
attended by forty-seven student execu-
tives. Some have attended all threc, oth-
ers only two. Plans are already under
way for the 1960 school.

The school is underwritten jointly by
Kansas University and the National
Recreation Association. The thirty-five-
dollar tuition fee covers the cost of
instruction. Several NRA-affiliated or-
ganizations in the district now offer
scholarships to the school.

All subjects taught are on the admin-
istrative level and have covered such
subjects as: principles and philos0phy
of recreation, municipal government,
budgets and finance, public relations,
planning recreational facilities, legal
problems related to recreation, cost ac-
counting, administration and program
planning, communications in human re-
lations, and other related subjects. In-
structors are drawn from the teaching
staff of the university, the professional
business field, the National Recreation
Association staff, and experienced rec-
rcation executives in the district.

Credit for this successful undertaking
must be shared with many, but the uni-
versity, in its endeavor to work with and
for the pe0ple of the district, has made
an outstanding contribution to the rec-
reation movement.—ROBERT L. BLACK,
NRA Midwest District Representative.

RECREATION

   
  

Local Developments

Compiled by Elvira Delauy

CALIFORNIA. A $152,000 community center building in Palo-
mares Park, Pomona, was dedicated in J annary. A new city-
school swimming pool in Santa Ana, located on the campus
of Santa Ana College, is a $105,000 facility, 75 by 100 feet,
with the city financing its construction, the schools provid-
ing the site and dressing rooms. Another jointly sponsored

park-school playground is scheduled for 1959-60.

The State Wildlife Commission has allocated 324,700 to
Stockton for construction of ramps, parking area, access
roads, and a fishing pier for Louis Park. Marcellus L. Jos-
lyn. civic leader and philanthrOpist, recently gave Los An-
gcles a new bowling green. The city has also been the re-
cipient of twenty-six acres of a foothill canyon near the
populated community of Brentwood. In addition, Mr. Joslyn
has presented a clubhouse for bowlers, a senior citizens’

social center, and bowling greens in Santa Monica and Her-
mosa Beach.

The California state park development program is right
on schedule, in accordance with its five-year master plan
of 1956. Since July 1, 1956, parklands valued at $15,000,000
have been purchased and nineteen new park areas have been
added, bringing the total to 150 parks, beaches and historic
monuments in the state park system, 615,000 acres in all.
Total book value of California’s investment in state parks,

including deveIOpment, is $73,000,000.

CONNECTICUT. A bond issue for'the construction of a new
$900,000 recreation center has been approved in Hartford.

DELAWARE. Mr. and Mrs. William duPont, Jr. recently gave
Wilmington a million-dollar present when they transferred
the property, comprising the major portion of the present
eighteen-hole Wilmington Country Club ( 108 acres), to the
city. It will become a public course, to be operated by the
Wilmington Board of Park Commissioners, on January 1,
1962, when the present lease of the country club expires.

ILLINOIS. A $600,000 bond issue will provide Champaign.
with funds for parks and a pool. A $130,000 bond issue
will enable Clencoe to have a fieldhouse and make park im-
provements. ln Clenview a $450,000 bond issue is ear-
marked for acquisition of land for parks and recreation.

INDIANA. In Bloomington a $344,000 bond issue will be ex-
pended on an outdoor pool, golf course, capital improve-
ments of recreation facilities. The purchase of three new
park sites in Columbus will be financed by a $225,000 bond
issue passed in 1958. Hammond has approved a $90,000
bond imue for capital improvements of recreation facilities.
A $1,000,000 bond issue, passed in Indianapolis, will cover
twenty-four minor improvement projects of recreation fa-
cilities, two outdoor'pools, four wading pools, a golf house,
and a community center.

Iowa. Recreation facilities and program expanded in Ames
during 1958. A larger staff was hired for drama and crea-
tive art, and both activities experienced splendid success.

hum. 1959

Archery classes were established for the first time. A better
coordinated playground activities program was carried out:
a schedule was set up and followed for the storytelling lady,
drama visits, tournaments, and craft visits. SliquIeboard
courts were painted on the concrete basketball courts at

lirookside Park.

MINNESOTA. A $636,000 bond issue was passed in Minne-
apolis for park purposes. Rochester will spend a $175,000
bond issue on a swimming pool. St. Louis Park will acquire
new areas with a $700,000 bond issue.

NEW JERSEY. The planning board in Middlesex County is
deveIOping county-operated golf facilities for its residents
and hopes to have its first eighteen-hole course in play
within two years. Somerset County plans to begin construc-

tion on an eighteen-hole golf course and driving range by
this May.

NEW YORK. A wildlife tract, to be known as the Brinton
Brook Sanctuary, will be dechOped by the National Audu-

bon Society on 112 acres in the scenic Hudson River valley
between Croton and Oscawana.

In New York City, a $381,000 improvement program will
double the facilities of the aquarium at Coney Island; im-

  

-'

Olaf lbc Walrus gels fed al lhe New York Cily Aquarium.

provements include a new Amazon jungle house. The ClO
Council will present the city a modern, fully equipped play-
ground in a new housing project, through one-dollar con-
tributions from individual union members. A new $228,000
playground will also be eonstrncted in Greenwich Village.
A recreation center for orthopedically handicapped children
has been opened by the New York PhilanthrOpic League.

OIIIO. Successful bond issues include: $16,836 for capital
improvements of recreation facilities in Berea; $112,000
for two outdoor pools in Elyra; and $500,000 for a new
pool and neighborhood center in Shaker Heights. One-tenth
per cent of the increased income tax will give Springfield
$150,000 for new recreation facilities. The following towns
have passed new levies for public recreation programs:
Fairview Park, Euclid, lronton, Solon, Valley View, and
Norwalk.

WASHINGTON". A bond issue for $485,000, to develop parks
in Benton County, was approved in the last election.

WISCONSIN. General obligation bonds of $165,000 have been
issued by Hartford to finance a new swimming pool. Darling-
tou has borrowed $42,500 for acquisition of land and con-
strnction of a swimming pool. .33:

147

 

1n lhce-mJl orulerland tuman passes glossed-in homes of small animals, happy in 306's reproduction of their native habitats.

A NATURAL AFFINITY

Children and animals are instinc-
tively drawn to each other—this
unusual :00 gives them an op-
portunity to become acquainted.

 

o .r I  LBW

The entrance is just the right height and leads into tunnel Two fascinated spectators pay rapt attention as Dr}. Joan
where harrowing rodents are displayed. Styrofoam insula- Kelly takes time out to talk about a quail’ s egg..Dr. lxelly ts
tion was applied to the expandedmetal to protect theanirnals. researcher, doctor of philosophy, head of children s zoo.

1‘43 RECREATION

Right, then: are always (hilth‘r'lt happily riding the tortoises.
Below, noses are. pressed hard against a” the gloss port/roles to
watch the antics of the seals in the 200's spectacular seal pool.

k "
._-|r.-I— _ a 1
._ I; I'd—1h'__

a glut. .. . -J.;I. , __,__,. __ .c‘.__ A...» - ___...._w_-_ .

 

 

“I want that one. mummy. He knows me!" In. case adult wants puppy or kitten [or a child, sign says ask at lunch counter.

13' EXACTLY one minute, it would be 9:30 A..\t., and time for
the Children’s Zoo to open. Young visitors, and those. not-
so-young, are lined up——-waiting. In the southeast corner
of the San Diego Zoo. one-and-a-third acres have been set
apart for this scaled-down zoo, built especially for little peo-
ple. Everything about it, from its ticket window just twenty-
fzve inches high and the low guardrails around exhibits, to
the tiny drinking fountains, is designed for small-fry.

Crown-ups are invited, too. As a matter of fact. a recent
attendance count showed that. for every three children vis-
iting the little zoo within a zoo, there were four adults. It
is the children and the animals. however, who have the
natural affinity for each other. Who can say when a young-
ster becomes an “adult”? So, the modest, fifteen-cent ad-
mission is expected to meet this unit’s hundred-thousand-
dollar-a-year operating expenses.

\Vllat’s to See?

Once inside its magic borders, the visitor's attention is

APRIL 1959

instantly drawn by the noisy colorful macaws. These bril-
liantly plumaged birds strut and preen in their open-moat
area, with its two date palm trees. The walk-through bird-
cages are. intriguing, too, where youngsters find it capti-
vating to be on the. inside looking out. Here they also get a
closer look at the gain eulored finches and the tiny button
quail, without hindrance of a wire enclosure.

A one-way traffic scheme has been instituted throughout
the zoo, to make sure that no one misses anything. The f rus-
tration that comes from too many things to be seen at onte
is avoided by having just a few exhibits visible at any one
spot.

“Look, they’re riding the turtles!" a mungster shouts,
as he. watches the two big Galapagos tortoises patiently
plodding around the paddock with small fry happily cling-
ing to their backs. Knobby and Old \lose are used to a rapid
turnover of small ones because. surprisingly. the length of
the ride seems to be of little. importance; the mere fart that
the children have climbed on and then off seems to be more.

149

0

than satisfying to their sense of adventure. Another turtle
attraction is the climb-in pen, furnished with desert tortoises
of assorted sizes. Not many can resist the temptation of pick-
ing up a real, live turtle, and this pen was designed for just
this purpose. Here, the children are invited to handle the
hard-backed members of the reptile family.

Moving on to aquatic animals—both mammalian and
piseatory-m—we come to one of the most pOpular and spec-
tacular exhibits in the children’s zoo, the seal pool. Eight
portholes, ranging in height from twenty-one to thirty-six
inches off the ground, to accommodate assorted sizes of
youngsters, punctuate the tank at intervals, so the children
can watch the seals’ underwater cavortings in comfort, their
noses flattened happily against the glass for a closer look.

A thirty-five-hundred-gallon fishbowl, with its collection
of freshwater fish, also enthralls many of the youngsters.
Resembling a giant diving bcll, its large inverted circular
clear-plastic windows provide a good view of goldfish, eat-
fish, and similar denizens of fresh water.

Just beyond, the farm animals——-—mare and foal, cow and
calf, sow and piglets, ewe and lambs—ware housed in pad-
docks. These animals are on loan from ranchers in the
county. The stalls are designed in such a way as to let only
the baby animals get close enough to children for petting.

Shapes and Colors

Contemporary art, in both form and color, is utilized
throughout, in the over-all design of the small zoo. Use of
abstract forms in the various structures is based 011 recog-
nition of the fact that most children have a tremendous in-
stinctive understanding and feeling for them, because they
have no preconceived ideas of what things ought to look like,
as grown-ups so often have. For example, the round, func-
tional shapes of the animal compounds emphasize the strong
vertical lines of the office building and the fences. The lush
green foliage of the various, luxuriant subtropical plants
and trees set off the bold, primary colors, used generously
throughout the zoo.

Not once, since the idea for the children’s zoo was first
conceived, has entlmsiasm for the project waned. Designs
were submitted, then frequently altered or even discarded,
to provide the proper design solution for cages that could be
efficiently cleaned, allow access for feeding, and also give
the animals some privacy.

Countless problems popped up as construction pro-
gressed. For one thing, some different building methods
were necessary to comply with the design requirements of
the animal structures and enclosures. Special tools had to
be designed, to put the finishing touches on curved surfaces,
as the conventional finishing trowels are designed for use on
flat ones. The unusual structural shapes elicited a great

deal of ingenuity on the builder’s part. ,

One of the zoo’s unusual construction features is the novel
radiant heating system that gives each animal a choice of
temperature for comfortable sleeping. This was achieved

For the Latest on Senior Citizen Activities,

by embedding a series of short lengths of straight copper
pipes, set parallel to each other, below the surface of the
concrete-slab flooring. The pipes are spaced from one to
two feet apart, and each is fitted with an electric, cartridge-
type heating element. A thermostat, connected to the heating
pipes, makes it possible to obtain varying degrees of heat
at places where the animals may choose to lie. Thus, by
heating only certain locations, instead of the entire Floor,

warmth is provided for the animals at a much lower operat-
ing cost.

Funds for Support

One of the major problems in building the Children’s
Zoo was finding the necessary funds. The San Diego Zoo,
itself, is about ninety-two per cent self-supporting, the other
eight per cent coming from a two-mill city tax, but money
left after operating expenses are met is sufficient only for
replacement and small capital expenditures in the main zoo
itself. It could not support, for instance, the two-hundred-
thousand-dollar outlay, the estimated necessary amount to!
build the small unit. The entire zoo is owned by the city and |
operated by the San Diego Zoological Society.

Income from the guided bus tours, refreshment stands,‘
restaurant, and other on-ground sales units, as well as ad-
mission fees, provides the funds for feeding the animals,
maintaining buildings and grounds, and paying the wages
of more than 250 people. A continuous improvement pro-
gram is always going on; new facilities are constructed and
zoo officials are always on the alert for the chance to obtain
new exhibits. Every year, too, approximately three hundred
thousand people take the guided bus tours through the zoo.
Specially trained driver-guides inform and educate visitors
with facts and anecdotes about the animals, on the three-
and-a-half mile trip.

When the committee members were figuring out how to
raise funds, they decided against an all-out drive, with the
usual solicitation, pledge cards, rallies, and so on. Instead,
they talked quietly but enthusiastically to friends and civic
leaders, spreading the news of this exciting project and the
concomitant need for funds. It has paid off handsomely.

Around the \Vorld

When it comes to acreage, the larger San Diego Zoo can.
scarcely compete with other zoos, having only one hundred
acres, but it is the largest in the world as far as total number
of individual animals is concerned. Only the New York
Zoological Park (better known as the Bronx Zoo) comes
anywhere near equaling the number of species shown. San
Diego currently has more than nine hundred and, because
of the mild climate, has some extremely rare animals, seldom
seen outside their natural habitats. Typical of these are the
Australian koala, the New Zealand Flightless kiwi bird, and
the proboscis monkey from Indonesia. The zoo also has two
of the largest free-flight cages in the world and one of the
largest reptile collections. It is worth visiting. #

See May Recreation

 

150

RECREATION

 
 
   
 
 
  
    
  
    
   
   

ow advanced planning saved the day for
arks and recreation in Oak Park,

ichigan—when population jumped from
5,000 to 30,000 in eight years.

Advance
Planning
5 the Answer

4.. ACK IN 1950, Oak Park, Michigan, was eighty per cent
. undeveloped land and a population of 5,267. Recog-
lizing that suburban sprawl would soon engulf its five-and-
-half square miles, thc eity administration retained a pro-
,  ional city planner. Working with the city-planning com-
ission, city council and citizen groups, he developed a
. aster plan for Oak Park. That the plan served as an effec-
ive guide to channel the tremendous growth which was to
.ome is apparent today.

‘ IA well-laid-out industrial area, with city-owned greenbelts
'~ ffering nearby residential areas, not only has attracted
ores of fine modcrn plants which pay approximately thirty
.-- cent of the city taxes, but——equally important—prove
hat homes and industry can live together. This provides for
' balance of land use and a stable economy as well as pro-
iding places of employment for Oak Park residents.

Each elementary school is located so that no child will

ave to eross a busy street to get to school. Adjacent to most
f our schools, the city purchased approximately five acres,
‘hieh have been developed into neighborhood parks. This
e call our “school-neighborhood-park” plan and it has
7 oved to be very suceessful and desirable—both from the
'ty and school viewpoint. Our industry, which provides an
xcellent tax base, has been restricted to the extreme south
d north positions of our city and is “buffered” by a sev-
ty-five-foot greenbelt from any ncarby homes.
The development of these neighborhood park sites (one
the center of each ten neighborhood areas, one-half by
e mile, a forty-aere major park, and twenty-acre civic-
nter sitc) all were assured in 1952 when citizens voted a
‘ 46,000 bond issue to buy this land while it was still vacant.
oday, conservative estimates place the value of these park
tes at over two million dollars. Miles and miles of strip
iness developments along the major highways have been
voided. Instead, major shopping centers, with ample off-
reet parking have been built.

This growth was not without problems. A new city charter
as approved by the voters in 1953. Over 375 special as-

- ent districts, petitioned by citizens, resulted in over
I e million dollars in public improvements—roads, water,
wer, and so on. The public-safety department, an inte-

      
   
 
   
   
  
   
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
   
   
 
  
   
   
 

I ML 1959

 

W .

-7II “PIITIII,
MIC IOIIS It”,

("'qu mm on
. no: am" an

Oak Park Civic Center

MICHIGAN

in"! I'I'I. “0.1.. It'll

no '0' n 'o'— no- who
“I '6' he I. 0 Foo! Our-In.

g.- V—m Dun-H
u- ‘I'-_— tan—I. no.3..— Cm.

In... Inw- but».
“- ‘l'u-u—hw Inn-u «no-v.

OAK PARK

grated police and fire department, has grown from twenty
men in 1952 to a force of sixty ollicers today. Oak Park,
served by four school districts within its municipal bound-
aries, has voted a total of fourteen million dollars for twelve
ncw schools (267 classrooms) since 1950.

The public opening of Oak Park’s new community center,
library, and swimming pool at an “open house” occurred
in June, 1958, a dream come true for the eity’s current
thirty-five thousand residents. It is a two-million-dollar
“civic center,” the only one of its kind in South Oakland
County. The community-center building, library, and swim-
ming pool, together with the previously opened artificial ice
rink and shelter, tennis courts, and major park improve-
ments, were financed out of an $890,000 bond issue voted
in 1955.

The community-center building contains a youth canteen-
lounge, six meeting rooms, kitchen facilities, and recreation
offices. The library will open with seventeen thousand vol-
umes, has room for sixty thousand, and contains an audio-
viSual room, oflices, workrooms, and storage space. The out-
door swimming pool, 165' by 55’, has a three- to five-foot
dcpth with one thousand loekers. About forty thousand
persons are expectcd to use it this summer.

Other units in the sixty-acre “civic center” are the city
hall built in 1952; the public works garage and water de-
partment building constructed in 1952; the parks and for-
estry building built in 1956.

All of the city-owned buildings in the “civic center” have
bcen designed by the Oak Park architectural firm of Bery-
Klei and Associates, who have worked closely with citizen
advisory groups to relate the plans and designs to the spe-
cific wants and needs of Oak Park residents. The planned
expansion of the city’s facilities is geared to its growth.

As Mayor Richard W. Marshall, a Methodist and a holder
of the B’nai B’rith Brothcrhood award, told his fellow citi-
zcns, “The type of city Oak Park will be in the future de-
pends upon the continued interest and activity of you and
your ehildren and your children’s children. 1 am sure it will
always be a city well planned, wholesome to live in, and one
which they will be proud to call their home town.”-—]ERRY
RADERSTORF, director of recreation in Oak Park.

151

 

TEEN COUNSELOR TRAINING

COUNSELOR-IN-TRAINING course for teenagers has been

held two summers at the Riverdale Neighborhood
House in the Bronx, New York. The first summer eight boys
and girls enrolled. with seven completing the training. The
past summer, sixteen boys and girls enrolled, nine were
accepted, and seven conipleted the training.

The program was publicized in the spring-summer calen-
dar of activities, which was mailed to the entire memher-
ship. Boys and girls who were interested in the CIT course
registered and were given a personal interview, which de-
termined their reasons for wanting to take part. This year,
reasons varied considerably, from “a real desire to work
with children” to “mother thinks it would be good for me.”

The program contained several goals and purposes. For
the boys and girls who took part, it offered an opportunity
to learn new skills and develop leadership qualities. It also
offered a recommendation to the day-camp director, which
assures them a position as junior counselors the following
summer. As for the agency and its goals in the CIT pro-
gram, they were: to create better understanding and mutual
cooperation on the part of the teenagers directly involved;
to create a source of leadership within the total teen pro-
gram; to offer opportunities for the teenagers to give back
their talents by volunteering as assistant leaders in other
programs; and to plant the idea that recreation and group
work form a worthy and challenging profession in which
they are needed. Since the majority of our neighborhood
house high-school young people will go to college, this last
goal may some day prove fruitful to this and other agencies.

The CIT program is a fifty-hour course offered during
the summer vacation for boys and girls thirteen to fifteen
years of age who qualify, as far as an interview can deter-
mine, by their motives for wanting the program, their per-
sonalities, and their potential as leadership material.

The first meeting with the groul) was an orientation meet-
ing at which time policies and safety regulations were out-
lined. At the same meeting the boys and girls made their
own work schedule, to determine the number of hours per
week they chose to give, in order to accomplish the required
fifty hours. They all chose two hours each morning, five
days a week. _

The areas of training were divided into categories: play-
ground supervision and safety for children four to seven
and eight to twelve years; arts and crafts for the two age
groups; group games and sports for the two age groups;

 

This is a portion of a report on “Counselor-in-Training Pro—
grams” for teenagers, presented at the I 958 A nnnal F all Con-
ference of the United Neighborhood Houses of New York,
Inc. MISS CHAZAUD is a youth worker at Riverdale Neighbor-
hood Honse, Bronx, New York.

152

storytelling for children four to seven years; one special
event for each ClT; program planning; trips; and weekly I
group discussions about leadership, problems, and future |
plans.

The training was carried out by weekly assignments and
advance special-event assignments. The facilities available
to the program were a playground for preschool and kinder-A
garten children, a playground for elementary age children,
the public library, and the program staff office for research
material, and the director’s office for the group discussions.

The number of leaders available for the training program
was two and a half. The summer kindergarten teacher, em-
ployed hy the agency, was used for program affecting the
four- to seven-year age group. The assistant director helped
with trips and led games and sports. The youth worker acted
as coordinator and led arts and crafts, group games, trips,
discussions, counseling, and evaluation.

The highlight of the past summer's CIT program was
the special event planned by each teenager. This phase of

 

Young leaders learn to make the older boys and girls in their 1
group feel more important by seleeting them as team captains.

the training seems to have accomplished the final test, so
to speak. It tested the teenager’s ahility to plan, organize,
direct other CIT’s, assign duties, and, most important, to
assume the role of leader without adult help. Up to this point]
in the training the ClT’s had identified with the children
rather than with the leader. Their ahility to lead the child-
ren without losing them became the greatest hurdle in the
training.

If “learning is doing” then the special-event assignmentsl
of each CIT accomplished what several group discussions
and many days of observation failed to do. It was one thin
for these teenagers to say the right words and quite another
to turn words into real action. They all knew this and felt it
The special .event assignment was merely setting a date and

RECREATIO

Experience showing growth
of teenager leadership
on the playground

Lois Chazaud

time for each CIT to present a special program. The nature
of the program was entirely up to them. Suggestions were
given as to the possibilities open and they were permitted to
select assistants from the group. This meant each would be.
responsible for one major project and might assist with
two or three other programs.

The events were many and varied, but the one which pro-
duced the greatest leadership growth was the one selected
by Marie, a very sensitive thirteen-year-old. She was alert.
receptive. and had good rapport with the children and other
ClT’s; she was quiet but lacked firmness in her manner;
she was conscientious and had a nice friendly personality-J
excellent leadership material. Marie chose the theme “Every -
one’s Birthday Party.” She selected her helpers and set about
her plans which called for refreshments, decorations, pub-
licity, games, cntertaimnent, and prizes.

For her entertainment, she organized a puppet show with
the children who had made puppets in her arts-and-crafts
group. The show was turned over to one of the helpers;
refreshments and decorations were assigned to other help-
ers; and Marie began planning the games and prizes. She
did everything quite calmly and efficiently. Her budget, by
the way, was five dollars. A few days before the party, Marie
was beside herself with details. She came to the leaders for
help and advice from time to time, but her greatest problem
was how to think of many different things simultaneously.
During the course of this project, Marie learned to think
through without letting details take her away from her ob-
jective—a successful party for the children. With the others,
as with Marie, the special event served to strengthen weak-
nesses and bridge the gap from child to leader.

 

 

NEW AND IMPROVED

RYAN’S H. 8: R.

DRY LINE MARKERS

5 DIFFERENT MODELS
From 20# to 100# Capacity

Force Food -- Instant
ShutoH — 50 lbs. so-

parity.

 
 
  

2" x 2" slides

Shelter In Hopper lor
Constant Flow.

'Adilnlablo Control on
‘Hondlo.

SAVES TIME AND |
MATERIAL I

hd ro Dept. R for booklet on {our other models
I. a R. MFG. CO” [05 ANGElES 34, CAUF. I
_____________________ .

.van. 1959
I

 

3 ' z " x 4"” slides
Wlltt roe CATOLOGUF :-

NATIONAL STUDIOS

42 West lllh Street
New York 36, N. Y.

JUdson 1-1926

 

The boys and girls were all evaluated during the weekly
group discussions. The most successfully used method was
self-evaluation of each program or problem. They found
acceptable solutions from group discussions. Individual dis-

.eussion about specific problems was another form. Final

evaluation was a checklist of leadership qualities. with rat-
ings in each area for each individual. The checklists were
not shown to the CIT’s but points of strengths and weak-
nesses were discussed.

Certificates were awarded to each teenager at the end of
the course, at a special award night. The working relation-
ship was so close with this group and the material so dyna-
mic. that lack of facilities and lack of sufficient adult leader-
ship hccame the program’s outstanding drawbacks.

Out of fourteen teenagers who have received certificates
during the last two summers, one is a club president in our
teen program, two are on the eighth-grade planning com-
mittee. one is a club vice-president, four are volunteer as-
sistant leaders, two are volunteer social dance instructors
for seventh-graders, and three were juuior counselors in
our day camp. One of the boys, age fifteen, is working
seriously toward a career in group work and recreation. #

 

A puppet show gives experience in leadership growth for teen-
counselors. Here, it elimaxed playground party for youngsters.

Keep ’em SINGING

with those ott-llrne favorite

SONG SLIDES

wonderful hours of fun for
young and old otllre

506/ slide
75e/slide

"SWEDISH GYM"

the PIAYMATE line
PLAYGROUND EQUIPMENT

The DELMER F. HARRIS Co.

Concordlo, Kansas

Irrita- [or bros-h an

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. lad

 

What to do about incidents
in baseball that may not
be covered by local rules.*

Buy That Lock
NOW

C. 0. Brown

Tue ADMINISTRATION OF athletics by a recreation de-
partment is always a problem. A few words printed or
mimeographed at the start of the year may not prevent every
contingency but they may help save hard feelings or pre-
vent being placed on the spot.

The problems arise even more frequently in the average
municipal recreation program of competitive athletics than
in scholastic or professional sport, where close immediate
supervision of the participants is possible. The following
are some of the most common trouble spots:

0 What if the umpire doesn’t show up?

0 ‘Vhat about rescheduling postponed or tie games, the
latter the bane of every twilight league?

0 What about the boy who “wants a release,” for reasons
legitimate or otherwise?

0 How would you handle that protest quickly?

0 What about the absence of ground rules or misunder-
standings about them?

0 What do you do if the delegated authority dies or moves
away and no succession of responsibility is designated?

0 What about the absence of an ollicial scorer when
needed?

Many departments. from sad experience, havc dcveloped
what they hope are nearly foolproof rules, which, perhaps
should be included in league bylaws to cover unexpected
events.

Until last year the American Amateur Baseball Congress
felt that such matters could be taken care of at the local or
state level. This was not the case, however. So the constitu-
tion was amended at the last annual meeting by adding the
following: “Leagues which fail to file approved constitu-
tion and bylaws with their member association (usually a
state) shall operate under the constitution and bylaws pro-
vided by this congress for such cases.” Hoping its own ex-
perience may be of value to civic groups and those depart-
ments which previously had not found it necessary to put it
in writing, AABC herewith presents a solution to some of
those problems.

* Organization of sports leagues is thoroughly discussed in Com-
munity Sports and Athletics, by George Butler, NRA. $5.00.

MR. BROWN is president of the American Baseball Congress,
located in Battle Creek, Michigan.

154

 

In addition, it also includes excerpts from the Battle Creek
[Michigan] Department of Civic Recreation’s local rules
which anyone may use. The complete AABC dummy con-
stitution or the Battle Creek department rules (covering
baseball) will be forwarded free to anyone wanting them.
Enclose a self-addressed, stamped envelope and be sure to
indicate whether you wish dummy constitution or Battle.
Creek rules or both.

Many of these cases may seem farfetched but they actually
happened. Rules should be written clearly, simply, and in as
nontechnical language as possible. There is probably no
breed able to devise legal evasions of the intent of rules
better than the veteran sandlot athletic manager. To some-
of them, it becomes a “game” in itself. Careful drafting of
rules makes it a losing game.

There simply is no substitute for the advice to PUT 11‘
IN WRITING (before you need it).

Now, let’s take 11p some of the most troublesome situa-
tions, one at a time.

From National “Dummy Constitution”

PROTESTS. The league shall appoint a protest board con-
sisting of three members not connected with any team. AlF
protests must be filed in writing, accompanied by a five-
dollar fee, within twenty-four hours of the occurrence pro
tested, citing baseball rule violated by the ruling. Protest
based Upon matters of judgment as defined in Rule 9.02(a
are not subject to consideration. The ruling of the protes
board shall not be subject to appeal except on the basis th
it be in violation of the constitution bylaws and/or rules
the member association of the American Amateur Baseba
Congress to which this league belongs. If the protest is u
held, the fee shall be deposited in the league treasury.

No Successmx 0F AUTHORITY PROVIDED. Where the pr
scribed ollicer shall refuse or be unable to act within th
period prescribed, but in no case more than seven (7) day
the president, vice-president, secretary, and treasurer, i
that order, shall have authority to appoint a suitable pers
to act for sixty (60) days until such time as the league m
designate a successor by the means prescribed herein. Fa
ure or inability of any of the aforementioned officers to d
charge responsibility, shall empower the executive ofhc

 
    
   
 
  
  
  
  
  
  

of the member association to act as necessary.

RECREATIO

I RESCIIEDUIJNC GAMES. Games, which it is necessary to re-
play, in part or whole, shall be rescheduled by the secretary
within seven days of need for such rescheduling where pos-
sible, with concurrence of both team managers involved. in
instances where such concurrence shall not be possible. de-
vision of the secretary shall be final, unless the procedure for
protests shall be used to show that eompliauce for such re-
scheduling is impossible for one team and another date is
suitable and equitable for the other team involved.

FILING or CONTRACTS. A properly executed contract for

Ievery player must be in the possession of the league secre-
tary prior to the participation of such player in a eontest.
Filing of a contract by an ineligible player shall not prevent
any game in which he plays from being protested. The
secretary, however, will advise teams registering ineligible

players of their ineligibility where time permits. Contracts
mailed prior to the game, as shosm by the official postmark
therefor, shall be considered as in possession of the secre-
tary, but contracts mailed and not actually postmarked prior

Ito the game shall not be considered as in possession of the
league secretary.

DISABILITY 0F PLAYERS. Disability of five or more players
in a period within twenty-five hours of scheduled game time,
if it reduces the available roster of a team below nine play-

'l'rs, shall not entitle the opposing team to the game by for-
icit. Such cases will be considered as postponed games.
IlEPLACEMEN'r or DISABLED PLAYERS. After the last legal
date for adding players, disabled players under the pre-

ceding section may be replaced with unanimous approval
of league president, viceoprcsident. and secretary.

Battle Creek Civic Recreation Department Rules

DISPOSITon or vasns ox DISBANDI'ZD TEAMS. Players on
any team that voluntarily drops from a league or that is
dropped, for any reason, by the recreation department shall
immediately become free agents and shall be free. at the
discretion of the recreation department, to sign with any
other team provided they drop before July 15th of the cur-
rent year (deadline for adding players).

Loss or PLAYERS 'rnnomn ARMED SERVICE DRAFT. Any
player or players on eivic recreation league teams going into
any branch of the armed services. either through the draft
or by voluntary enlistment or by call from reserve lists,
may be replaced immediately upon departure from the city
or area by any player or players who have not previously
been signed by any other team. Otherwise, such replace-
ments must follow rules provided herein for players chang-
ing from one team to another. Any player coming back from
armed service will be eligible at once.

PLAYERS “QUI'r'rINc” TEAM. A player desiring to “quit”
a team is empowered to file a “quit” card in the event a
manager refuses to give him a release. His release from this
team becomes automatic seven days after the quit card is
placed on file in the recreation office. The player then may
proceed to sign with another team as specified. #

 

 

FUN-TESTED SWINGS

' A wonderful variety of
glider, hobby horse, and con-
ventional-type swings. All
super-strong, safety-spaced,
carefully balanced, and self-
lubricating. Built for an
extra-long, fun-filled life.
Meticulously safety-engi-

"Greater Security”...
"More Privacy” and

"CONVENIENT"

These are typical comments of pool
operators and customers alike . . .
where SENTINEL CHECKING SYS-
TEMS ARE in use. No more un-
sightly bags and baskets . . . they've
been replaced with beautiful, high-
security lockers. No more standing
in line . . . patrons check their
clothes and other valuables. and
get them back . . . without delay.

They’re happy to pay for this
modern bath house checking serv-
ice, too. Across the country hun-
dreds of pools and beaches have
already paid for their lockers out
of the added revenue .. .and they
have eliminated costly checkroorn
payrolls, too.

You'll be mighty glad you got
the facts. Write today for complete
information.

 

Leased FREE!

Stop wosting time recording Inventory costs,
honding out bolls ond paying top prices for low
quality bolls. lnstoll this ottroctive, cost-cutting
TFT Toble Tennis Boll Meter NOWI

leased FREE to responsible ogencies on $10.00

A
D
M
l
N
l
S
T
R
A
T
I
O
N

 

neered down to the last
countersunk seat bolt.

SEE OUR COMPLETE LINE
OF PLAYGROUND EQUIPMENT

For information, write Dept. A

deposit subiect to refund. Trouble-free operation
assured—return mochine for FREE repair. Attrac-
tive hard wood and metol cobinet—7V2 at 8V: 1: 15
inches high. Easy to install. Holds 120 bolls-
dispenses each for 10¢. Cholce of 3 grodes of
tap quolity balls. Use profit to maintoin ond re-
place paddles, nets, etc. No risk guarantee. Send
for free folder: "Stop Wasting Their Time."

T. F. TWAROZIK 8. (0.,

. scanner.

COIN-ANO-KEY
OPERATED CHECKING SYSTEMS

    
 
 

THE FLXIBLE COMPANY
LOUDONVILLE. OHIO

is"? O'riW

‘l' 0 legit."

r':;r «W. '[I-‘

SHENANDOAH PENNA.

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention Rscnmrtox. 155

 

Sip of tea. Guests wore latest fashions,

sat down at beautifully decorated tables.

Local matrons exchange gossip,wateh the display ofereations being modeled among
the tables by charming young ladies, lhree- to twelve-years old. Attention, Vogue!

Special Events

for

THE JUNIOR MISS

N AN EFFORT to depart from the tra-

ditional doll show, women recreation
leaders of the Huntington Park. Cali-
fornia, recreation department staff put
their heads together and came up with
two special events that attracted wide-
spread community interest and atten-
tion.

Doll Clothes Sewing Contest

A city-wide doll clothes sewing eon-
test was conducted at each of the rec-
reation centers and playgrounds; lead-
ers supervised the young seamstresses
during specith hours each day and

A local

business establishment contributed rem-

rendered limited assistance.

nants and thus enabled the department
to provide attractive fabrics of various
types to all participants. The young
seamstresses furnished their own nee-

dles and thread.

iContest rules and classifications were

MRS. HEER is supervisor of recreation
in Huntington Park, California.

156

kept extremely simple. Garments fash-
ioned by girls participating in this event
were judged in two age groups, nine
years and under and ten years and over.
A local department store provided love-
ly teenage dolls for the first-place win-
ners in each age group of the two
classifications which were: “Most Pro-
fessional Garment" and “Most Com-
plete Wardrobe.” All garments had to
be sewn by the youngster on the play-
ground, and garments could not be
taken home for pressing until com-
pleted. A display of all the handmade
garments and dolls for which they were

custom fashioned was set up.

Youngsters, their families. and
friends were all invited to be present
for judging and presentation of awards.
Ladies with personal sewing skills and
experience as well as civic interest had
been selected for judges. They repre-
sented the Huntington Park Civic The-
ater Board of Directors, Huntington

In recreation centers
and pIaygrozmds—

Gene Heer

Park Recreation Commission. and
the Huntington Park Symphony Associ-
ation. Awards were presented in a
simple, brief ceremony by the store
manager. The recreation department
furnished many colorful ribbons to pro-

vide additional recognition.

Dolly Tea Party

The dolly tea party and fashion show i
were conducted in the social rdom of'
the Huntington Park Municipal Recre-
ation Building. The entire room was
set up with small furniture, all of which
was borrowed from the primary depart-.
ment of local churches. Young ladieq
of all ages were invited to bring their
“babies,” dressed up in mother’s clothes
and attend.

The department store again cooperat-
ed and furnished each of six young la-
dies, selected by the recrcation depart-
ment staff, with two complete outfits.
The young models, who ranged in age
from three through twelve years, were

RECREA'noj
|

l The-m guests (are upon activitien with the
‘ took of one who has “been there before."

 

observed attentively throughout the
fashion show by over one hundred
young guests seated sedatcly at tables,
sipping lemonade. The recreation cen-
ter director narrated the style show, and
carefully described, in great detail, the
latest styles modeled by the girls. Even
the youngest model made it safely, and
with great poise, up the low ramp and
through the entire group of tables.

Of course, the dolls and doll clothes
made during the doll clothes sewing
contest were exhibited with their award
ribbons, along with an extremely inter-
esting and extensive collection of for-
eign dolls. The owner explained the
background of the dolls and told inter-
csting tales of the countries from which
they originated. A fabulous homemade

doll house, with handmade scale furni-
ture, was displayed by its maker. a local
grandmother. Additional entertainment
consisted of the “guest appearance” of
Miss Wading Pool of 1957 (aged four,
wearing cape and “gold” crown l .

The charm of this event captured the
hearts of the entire recreation depart-
ment staff. The young ladies represent-
ing all age groups~ from toddlers to
teenagers- -came dressed to the teeth,
carrying their babies and living com-
pletely the roles of young mothers. Even
male leaders displayed interest and is-
sued delighted chuckles as the young
ladies trudged home through the park
with exaggerated poise and dignity,
wearing their hats, gloves, long skirts.
and very high heels. 1.4;:

 

I Students Conduct Summer Study

Students at Louisiana State University, under the direc-
tion of Dr. H. O. Dresser, have studied several aspects of the
recreation service provided by the recreation and park com-
mission of East Baton Rouge Parish. The projects were un-
dertaken during the summer of 1957, in most cases by stu-
dent teams.

One study involved gathering opinions of children and
parents regarding four playgrounds. The 111 children who
filled out this questionnaire live, on the average, two-and-
a-half blocks from the playground and usually stayed there
for four hours. Less than one out of five reported a rainy-

IIday program; seven out of eight got a chance to choose what
they wanted to play. Ping-pong was the most popular ac-
ivity, with crafts in second place. A swimming pool was
he most desired facility.

“Clean the Grounds" was the suggestion most frequentiy
[offered at two of them; other suggestions by several children
felled for additional Ping-pong tables, box hockey, a cold-
prater fountain, and a new playground leader.

I 0f fifty-nine parents, only twenty-three ever accompanied
their children to the playground, and only twenty-one were
Irquainted with the playground leader, even though three-
guarters of them said their children attended regularly.

0st frequently listed reasons for children’s not attending

'cre “other interests” and “not enough to do.” Needed im-

provements, in order of those most frequently listed, were

Equipment, activities, facilities, and leaders.

A second questionnaire, on swimming pools. was filled
Iout by 101 persons, one-half of whom were between fourteen
imd eighteen; the others equally divided between a younger
tnd older group. Nearly two-thirds of these persons swam at
the pool three or more times per week and a majority of
rem are swimmers. One-quarter wanted junior lifesaving.

 
  
 
  
   
   
 
 
   
 

heart. 193‘)

To secure more pool revenue, half suggested a fee for
swim classes, a smaller number favored an increase in the
children’s fee, and still fewer favored closing the pool a
week earlier. (Since few of the participants in the study
were children or nonswimmers, the results are perhaps not
surprising.)

A third study centered on a golf course just acquired by
the commission, at which the average golfer plays in the
eighty to ninety range, at least twice a week. Most of the sev-
enty golfers considered the operation of the course to be
good; fifty believe it should not be self-supporting; forty-
four that the annual membership fee is just right. A large
percentage of the group gave the clubhouse a high rating,
but evidenced a desire for improved course maintenance.

A fourth study was designed to ascertain public opinion
as to program and facilities at two recreation centers. A
questionnaire was sent out and yielded 190 replies from a
wide age range. The six-to-twelve-year group attended on
the average of 2.8 days each week; the teenagers three days
weekly, and the older groups once a week. Reasons for atten-
dance brought few responses; “enjoyment” was most often
mentioned, but more six-to-twelve-year-olds listed “had
nothing else to do.” Distance was the factor preventing most
children from attending, and work prevented many teen-
agers from doing so.

Activity leaders were rated excellent by fifty-five per cent
of the group, seventy-two per cent of whom participate in
coreercational activities. Crafts attract most six-to-twelve-
year-olds, dancing the teenagers and adults. Comments on
the program were not conclusive, although teenagers ex-
pressed a desire for a pool. g)'illnastic and other equipment.
The scheduling of activities, maintenance, and appearance
of center are considered highly satisfactory. #

157

 

RECREATION IN AN AFFLUENT SOCIETY |

T he A 172nm” Society" is a best-selling
book about economics which ought
to be read by every recreation leader
and recreation student. Its author is
Professor John K. Galbraith, a Harvard
economist with a sense of humor and a
refreshing insight.

Among many unconventional conclu-
sions reached in this popular yet schol-
arly work are several bound to affect
the recreation movement in this coun-
try. One is the improper distinction
made between public and private Spend-
ing, giving private spending a pat on
the back and public spending the wor-
ried frown reserved for necessary evils.

What about this difference hetween
public and private spending? We can
all remember how in recent months we
were exhorted with the patriotic propo-
sition that we “auto buy now,” to end
the recession. Newspapers and civic
leaders joined in the campaign to pro-
mote more private spending. Yet many
of the same editorial writers were see-
ing all sorts of evil consequences in
spending more money on schools.

Tail Fins and Frills

Only a relatively few curmudgeons
see anything evil or wasteful in gaudy
chrome ornaments on our autos or in
spectacular tail fins. Yet, how quick
are taxpayers to complain that a public
building has too many “frills.”

Where does this lead? To a situation
where we are “overspent” in the private
field and “underspent” in the puhlic
field. The relationship between public
and private expenditures are out of bal-
ance. We pay fantastic sums for auto-
mobiles, but can’t enjoy them because
we haven’t enough parking spaces. To

 

*lloughton .Milllin. $4.00.

 

MR. WILLIAMS is executive director.

A REVIEW

Harold \V. Williams

use another Galbraith example, which
hits home to the recreation leader: we
buy a nylon, waterproof, lightweight
sleeping bag with all sorts of good de-
sign features, in order to sleep out in a
national park, but our sleep is ruined
by the odor of garbage uneollceted be-
cause the maintenance budget was cut.

Most modern economic systems, Gal-
braith points out, were developed in
days when the purpose of an economic
system was to arrange things so that
the maximum amount of elementary
production would be promoted. Food.
shelter and clothing were in short sup-
ply. Today, in our “affluent” society,
everybody (except for a relatively few
special cases in a few special areas) has
sufficient necessities. More people die
in the United States of overeating than
of starvation. In such a society, it is
ridiculous to think that we cannot afford
a higher standard of public services. As
a puhlic service, so often the last to he
estahlished and the first to be cut, rec-
rcation has much to he gained hy a
wider understanding of what Galbraith
is saying. Even if recreation leaders
don’t read the book themselves. at the
very least they ought to send a copy as a
gift to every city council member.

Time Is Now!

It seems clear that we must build up
an appreciation of leisure; we must
teach leisure skills; we must help our
society to enjoy the fruits of its afflu-
ence. A vast expansion of recreation
facilities and programs is one of the

Advisory Board on Problems of Older -mostimportampramlcalProgramsml’e
Workers, Pennsylvania Department of P115th In our amuelll SOClety. Nor are

Labor and Industry, Harrisburg.

these things to be postponed.

This is a time for boldness. We need
recreation leaders who dare to dream
bold dreams. ‘Ve need men and women
to speak out forcefully, convincingly,
with passion and fire. We need the kind
of recreation leaders who can lead their
constituencies to new and challenging
accomplishments in the development of
leisure-time opportunities.

Our affluent. society can afford a vast
expansion of puhlic services. We can
afford to buy the land. \Ve can afford
to build the buildings. We can afford to
employ the leaders. But we need to be
convinced by people of vision that these
things are worthwhile, that they will
make our lives fuller, happier, and rich-
er. We might also raise our sights within
the recreation movement and begin to
think of greatly enlarged land acquisi-
tion programs; of community theaters
and symphonies and ballets; of public
camping programs; of teaching recrea-
tion skills to our young people so that
they grow to maturity knowing some-
thing of music and nature, of poetry
and horseback-riding, of cooking and
gardening, of baseball and ballet; in-
deed, of all the activities and pastimes
which mark the advance of civilization.

liowever, responsibility for these
programs will not automatically fall
within the scope of local recreation pro-
grams. Whether they do or don’t will
depend in large measure upon whether
recreation leaders are truly “leading”
or whether they are content to sit in
their buildings and playgrounds and let
the community leisure-time program be
developed and carried out under other
auspices.

The next five years will be crucial.

Recreation leaders will have magni-
ficent opportunities for service to their
communities. But those opportunities
will be realized only if recreation lead-
ers are bold, adventuresome, and open-

minded. if:

 

   

(HRS M. GRAVES NIZATION
Park 8. Recreation Specialists

1275 Spring 51., N.W., Atlanta 9, Ga.

Surveys - Buildings - Pools - Park Plans

‘ llllllllllllllllllllll
llllllllllllllllllllllll

I...l“...1.._."l.| I I Inuunl In: .. If

llllllllll

 
 

I -.|‘  -,.I' ....| I“ ||-.'I -- I”

  

Free to WRITERS

seeking a book publisher

Two fact-tilled. illustrated brochures tell how
1 to publish your book. get 40% royalties. na-

tlonal advertislnz. Dubllcity and promotion.

Free editorial appraisal. erte Dept. R-4

Exposition Press / 386 4th Av... N.Y. 16

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATon.

 

New, improved Galden Age Club Pin.
Now in real gald plate with tree in

green Iewelers' enamel. Safety catch.

 postage.
Minimum order 10 pins
Available only ta authentic clubs.

JAMES SPENCER 8: CO.
22 N. 6th Street Philadelphia 6. Pa.

 

EXACT SIZE

 

RECREATION

50c eachl including federal tax and

Harold H. Bcnowitz

Shooting

The space age enters an
indoor day camp . . .

For the Moon

UTE}! SPACE was the thcme last sum-

mer at Camp .lay-C-C, a day camp
sponsored by the Jewish Community
Council of Corpus Christi, Texas; Even
the name of the camp was changed to
“Space Camp."

This camp—offered to all boys and
girls aged six to twelve in tlic area—is
now in its sixth year and is thc only
coeducational day-camp program of-

+_ 'II-

s -  

'oodworking skills are used in build-
' g rockcls by Corpus Christi youngslcrs.

fcred city residents. Space Camp was
held Monday through Friday for a six-
'eck period, with Temple Beth El as
hcadquarters. Young space men and
womcn, who made Up thc sevcnty-five
space campers, went into orbit each day

from 9:30 AM. to 3:30 PM.

Space campers wcre divided into
roups called Monimula Girls, Space
Dolls and Rocket Jills; Space Rocke-
crs, Purple I‘eople Eaters, and Space
Rangcrs. In the “missile factory,”
mpcrs used woodworking skills to
build rockets in which they could sit
nd operate instrument panels designed

  
    
   
 
  
   
  

'lR. BENOWITZ is executive director 0/
amp Jay-C-C, Corpus Christi. Texas.

' mm. 1959

 

for Spacc travel. The “art orbit” was the
place for making papier-mz'iché animals
for a space kingdom later placed on ex-
hibit for a special parents‘I program.
The “control room” was the office of
the directors.

After a lunch of “spaceburgers” dc-
clared “out-of-this-world,” the space
campers and staff would board their
spaceship “bus,” guided by thcir space-
pilot “bus driver,” for the YMCA swim-
ming pool, where the campers swam
each afternoon. When the campers were
not rockcting into the pool they werc
engaged in such other worldly actions
such as shooting stars (archery), plan-
etball (baskctball) , satellites (croquet):
rockctball (football), flying sauccrs
(horseshoes) , Sputnikball (soccer),
spacchall (softball), or space condi-
tioning (physical fitness).

The space theme quickly caught the
fancy and imagination of campers and
staff. Local department stores and ad-
vcrtising agcncies werc asked for dis-
play items. Soon cardboard rockets,
kites, and glittering moons and satcllitcs
were hung from the ceiling of the space-
ship (auditorium) wherc campers as-
sembled for morning program and in-
structions. In the woodwork program
the children constructed a child-size
spaceship with panel instruments and
controls. In arts and crafts all typcs of
papier-maché animals and ceramics ob-
jects carricd out the thcme.

A typical day at camp began with a
morning assembly, at which the entire
camp gathered. Attendance was taken;
the Pledge of AIICgiance to the flag
was given, lcd by a differcnt campcr
each morning; then a nmnber of songs
were sung; and special instructions and
announcements made. Very oftcn spe-
cial educational movic
shown or a program with spccial infor-

shorts wc rc

mation on camping skills was prcsented,
and other speakers were invited to talk

with the campcrs or to entertain them.
Some assembly visitors to camp were
the director of the local children’s mu-
scum, a pilot from the naval air station,
a collcctor of guns and Indian relics.
a biologist, and a scout troop which did
authentic Indian dances. At morning
and afternoon briefing scssions (asscm-
bly programs) songs such as the “Pur-

ple People Eatcr" and “Off We Go into
the Wild Blue Yonder" were popular.

Following morning assembly, camp-
ers attended classes in sports, physical
fitness. dramatics, woodwork, arts and
crafts, folk dancing. Fun with music
was taught with thc use of the plastic
fluteaphonc and a choral group. Child-
ren were divided into age groups so
six- to eight-year-olds attended classes
together and likewise the nine- to twelve-

 

Young space scicmisls could sit inside and
operate instrument panels. Mars ahead!

year-olds. Each child attended two fifty-
minutc classes cach morning.

This program was varicd on Thurs-
days, when an out-of-town trip was
scheduled, to such places as the King
Ranch, the naval air station and to
Weldon State Park. Each out-of-town
program cnded with a swim. 0n al-
tcrnatc wccks thcrc was a cook-out.

The climax of the space camp oc-
curred in the sixth weck, with a water
show to which parents and friends wcrc
invitcd and a closing-ceremonies assem-
bly. at which various groups demon-
strated thcir skills in music, danclng,
singing, and dramatics. Displays of
crafts and woodwork projccts wcre also
arranged. #

159

 

Barbara Love

The Best Way
Is with a Relay

RELAY RACES probably provide more
teaching possibilities than many
other forms of recreation. They offer
liberal education in motor skills, coon-
eration, achievement, and emotional
development. Unfortunately, their wide
range of uses and benefits are not rec-
ognized by the average leader.
Children’s relay races are a boon to
the leader of large groups. Almost any
number of children can participate with
a minimum of organization; playing
procedures are simple and rules few.
For lead-up games to introduce or
perfect skills for games or athletics the
relay is unparalleled. Basketball, base-
ball, and volleyball skills can be prac-
ticed in a game situation enjoyable to
all. The child can learn to use his skills
efficiently, with coordination and poise.
Development of muscles and coordin-
ation is a must which is achieved by
participation. This body development
is accompanied by improvement in
strength, vigor, and endurance for eve-
ry child. In addition to relative ease
of organization and physical benefits.
these activities are highly exciting and
give the child an opportunity to develop
eontrol over his emotions. The scien-
tific study of children in recent years
has awakened pe0ple, as nothing ever
before, to the importance and necessi-
ty of giving every child opportunities
for the best emotional training.
A poor sport is never liked and will‘
have to overcome his bitterness. Defeat
and victory experienced in an everyday

M155 LOVE, physical education graduate,
at Purdue University, was on a 1956
world-record-breaking relay, National
Swimming Championships, Florida.

160

situation will help the child to mature
faster. Many children are sheltered
from disappointments at home and are
accustomed to getting their own way—
in a sense they win all the time.
Relays help children socially hy giv-
ing them a chance to play with others,
to learn the spirit of fair play, to ac-
quire desirable attitudes, to hecome
loyal to a group, and to play according
to a set of rules. Members of the team
feel needed and wanted hecanse they
become a part of a group working for a
common goal. A mutual interest can
draw together children who normally
might be shy and indifferent and teach
the belligerent child how to cooperate.
Because relay races are really team
games, requiring the cooperative effort
of a group, they should not be included
in the program for children under eight
or nine. The ability to cooperate in
this manner usually does not begin to
develop until the child is in his third
year of school. In the lower age group
the children are more interested in self.
Relays also provide coed recreation,
in which boys and girls may participate
011 the same team and not have to com-
pete against individuals. In this way
all children may compete with a maxi-
mum of effort and still not feel inferior
to the opposite sex or to more highly
skilled individuals. Boys and girls from
nine to thirteen need this bond, if only
for a brief time during a recreation peri-
od. When they get older, coed relays
can no longer he used because of a
change in interests and the increasing
difference in strength and athletic abil-
ity.
The “will to win” inspires children
to make the most of their skills and

 

This is loam spiril.

abundant energy. Each member does
his best so he will not let the team down,
but he learns, too, to accept defeat.

The individual child has already had
eXperience in a competitive situation
and he is not likely to “clutch” when
his skills are tested against his peers,
nor to be upset when his ability is tested
with others in any field in which he en-
deavors to participate.

People who do their best in one thing
usually try hard in everything. Olympic
swimming star Carin Cone who was a
straight A student in high school last
year, is a fine example. Bob Richards,
national pole-vaulting champion, was a
Rhodes scholar.

Relays can be ad usted to the age and
capacity of the group. They may pro-
vide vigorous or quiet activity. If the
children are tired they may participate
in an over-and-under, for example.
Each team passes a basketball over the
head of the first memher and under
the legs of the second and so on. The
last member of the team runs up with
the ball to the front and starts over '
again. Or perhaps a quiet game might
be preferred.

If the children desire more vigorous
activity, and hop-
ping relays can be formed. For best
results, so as not to keep the children

running, skipping,

inactive too long, no more than six
members should be on a team.

Relays, then, should provide vigor-
ous, friendly, and beneficial activity
for all. They have a universal appeal.
furnishing enjoyment and excitement to
help the children develop healthfully. lt
is not hard to recognize that the most
important thing is not the winning, but
the taking part. #

Races - TION

P E R S

  
 
 
   
 
  
 
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
 
   
 
  
  
 
   
   
   
  
  
   
 
  
  
     
   
  
  

’5 Your Decision

J. A. anl’hee

All professional recreation leaders are aware that the de-
- nd for trained recreation leaders far exceeds the supply.
t how bad is this situation? Willard C. Sutherland, head
National Recreation Association Recreation Personnel
rvicc, reports, “There will be at least three thousand reo-
ation job openings in 1959, but only two hundred quali-
ed new graduates available to fill them.” That means, out
a larger total number of recreation graduates, one gradu-
. e for every fifteen jobs.

Those fifteen jobs per graduate may come from about
venteen national agencies that employ recreation gradu-
tas. Until two years ago, the biggest competitors for the
raduate were public and private recreation and social agen-
'es. In the last two years, some completely new agencies
ve become important in the placement picture; such as

e U. S. Air Force, Boys’ Clubs of America, Girls’ Clubs

f America, and program director for Senior Citizens, to
me a few.

A survey of recreation graduates (numbering about one
undred) of New York State University Teachers College,
t Cortland, shows placement approximately as follows:
lirty-one per cent in public recreation; seventeen per cent,
ocial agencies; twelve per cent in business; ten per cent,
rmcd services; ten per cent married (wives) ; nine per cent,
aching; six per cent, school camps; and five per cent, hos-
ital recreation.

Recreation educators are often asked for what role stu-
' nts are trained. Are they trained to be superintendents of
reation? These graduates are proving themselves satis-
ctory at the two next lower levels—assistant superintend-
t and recreation supervisor. Most recreation educators
l the superintendent position requires graduate training.
What is the enrollment of students in training for profes-
'onal recreation in New York State? A survey of the col-
-; with recreation curriculums revealed 149: Ithaca
ollege, twelve; Syracuse University, eighteen; Utica Col-
gc, eighteen; New York University, thirty-one; and Cort-
nd State, seventy. Chairmen of these recreation depart-
ents were asked to estimate the number of these 149 that
. vc been guided to recreation by the influence of a pro-
ssional recreator and the answer was thirty-six. This
- cans that seventy-six per cent of the present professional
reation trainees are “in” by pure chance.

If each one of us does not recognize our personal respon-

mm a taik given at the New York State Recreation Con-
rcnce, [958. DR. MAcPues is assistant professor of recrea-
n education at State Teachers Coiiege, Cortiand, New
ork, and associate chairman of the New York State Recre-
ion Society's recruitment committee.

PR”. 1959

 

O N N E L

sibility for recruitment, we shall lose our status as leaders
of recreation. It's your decision! We compete, at the high-
school level, with the medical, legal, teaching, nursing, and
countless other professions. With such an imposing array
against us we ask hopelessly, “What can I do?” We can com-
pctc in recruitment with these better organized professions!
\Vhat’s more, we have a tremendous advantage. Here’s why
and how:

Try ’Em.’ Know your young volunteers in centers and on

playgrounds. Know your junior playground leaders. Hire
them, if possible.

Train ’Em.’ Give them good leadership institutes, give
them recreation education in the sophomore and junior
years in high school, as is done in Long Beach, New York.

Temper ’Em.’ Have competitions, with recognition for the
best junior playground leader. Make it a city-wide contest.
Give these young leaders a chance as “Leader for a Day” and
watch them in this position of real responsibility.

Take ’Em.’ In recognition of their proven skill in recrea-
tion activities and leadership, make them aware of their po-
tentialities for the professional recreation field. What other
profession has a like opportunity to let candidates prove
their own aptitudes? What other profession can compare
with us in the opportunity in influencing young people to
join our profession? Can the doctor let a youngster try doc-
toring? Can a lawyer let a youngster try a legal case? Can
a nurse let a youngster work in surgery or at the bedside?
Can a teacher let a youngster take over in the classroom?
Of course not!

But the recreation professional is seeking, finding, and
training youngsters in recreation every day of the year!
The professional recreation lcadcr, gifted and trained in
public relations, is unusually qualified to: try ’em, train ’em,
temper ’em, and take ’cm, into professional training for rec-
reation. You can do it! It’s your decision! #

ANNOUNCEMENT

The National Recreation Association
takes pleasure in announcing a new
graduate assistance program.

The Association will award funds for
qualified individuals who seek graduate
assistance in recreation for special work
with the ill and handicapped.
Interested readers should write for
further information to Mrs. Beatrice H.
Hill, Director, Consulting Service on
Recreation for the Ill and Handicapped,
National Recreation Association, 8

West Eighth Street, New York 11.

161

BASIC
YO ~YO
TRICKS

 

IHE SPINNER

Y o-yo contests are popular with pub-
lic recreation departments in. California
—where they have had state-wide com-
petition. What about the rest of the
country? Here are five basic tricks to
start you of}.

The Spinner

This is the first trick that the begin-
ner should master, as it is the basis for
many other tricks.* (A slight coating of
wax applied on the string will lengthen
the time of the spin and also help to
preserve the string. Be careful not to
overwax the cord, as this will make it
so slippery you will not be able to wind
the Yo-yo.)

The Yo-yo is first thrown sharply.
Immediately after the Yo-yo has bccn
released from the hand by the down-
ward fling, the movement of the hand
and arm should be stopped.

If this throw has becn correctly done,
the Yo-yo will sink into a spin at the cnd
of its string before returning to the
hand (Fig. 1).

To make the Yo-yo climb the string
before dying, give a slight jerk.

Be sure that the palm of the hand is
towards the Yo-yo before it starts its
upward elimb (Fig. 2).

(The world’s record for duration of
spin is forty-eight seconds, held by Tex
Schultz of Hot Springs Junction, Ari-
zona.)

The Forward Pass

Instead of holding the palm upward,
the back of the hand is pointed away
from thc body with the hand and arm
swinging in a normal side position.

Then bring the arm up sharply in
front of the body, at the same time re-
leasing the Yo-yo. The Yo-yo will run
straight out in front of you to the end

 

of its string and then return to your
hand. Be sure that you turn the palm
of the hand upward before the Yo-yo

returns, in order that you can catch it.

Over the Falls

This trick is started with the hand
and arm swinging naturally.

Give a toss of your arm outward and
release the Yo-yo at the same time.

After reaching the end of the string,
the Yo-yo will start its return flight.

Instead of catching the Yo-yo, curve
your wrist and allow it to drop straight
down. After reaching the bottom of the
string on its downward trip, it will re-
turn to your hand.

The Break-A way

Curve the arm and wrist upwards to
the point of your shoulder.

The throw is started here.

Snap the Yo-yo downward and across
the body. On reaching the end of the
string, the Yo-yo will spin for a fraction
of a second, defying gravity, before re-
turning to the hand.

Around the World

The trick starts with the arm swing-
ing naturally at your side and the back
of the hand pointing in the direction of
flight.

Then snap the arm upward, releasing
the Yo-yo at the start of the swing. Al-
low the arm to continue its upward
motion until it reaches a position in
front of your body.

Thc Yo-yo will spin at the end of its
string and make a full circle.

After completing this circle, a slight
jerk will cause the Yo-yo to return.

‘A booklet The Art of Yo-yo Playing can

be obtained for ten cents from Donald F.

Duncan, 2640 North Greenview Avenue, Chi-
cago 14.

  
 

  
 

IMMEDIATE
DELIVERY ON

FROM YOUR
CHOICE OF

3

 C-R-A-F-T-S

Hurry . . . place your order with us now for your Summer craft
programs. Our three locations offer immediate delivery semce
and a variety of crafts at low quantity prices. Get your new
U.S. FLAG free with your crafts order for $100.00 or more. Offer

   
       

HANDY, CONVENIENT
LOCATIONS

l%§
expires May 10th, 1959. Only one to each customer.
erfe For FREE Catalog of Handicraft Supplies!

CLEVELAND CRAFTS CO.

4707-] Euclid Ave. 4 East lélh Street 5832 Chicago Ave.
CLEVELAND 3. OHIO NEW YORK 3, NEW YORK CHICAGO 51, ILL.

0 When You Think CRAFTS . . . Think CLEVELAND CRAFTS '

     
       

 

AROUND THE WORLD

RECREATION l

162 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

gimme 6W

'5' Our January column elicited a re-
spouse from Mrs. Sonia Paleos, recrea-
tion director, Monteliore Hospital, Pitts-
burgh. Pennsylvania. Mrs. Palcos tells
us about her work with patients who
are on home care. She spends half her
time with the hospitalized, and the rest
in a home-care research project with
patients having congestive heart failure.
Program includes arts and crafts, sum-
mer trips and summer camping, and
utilization of community resources.

Here’s one example: “An aging cou-
ple, Mr. and Mrs. B., are both on home
care. Mrs. B. is a social, outgoing per-
son and has been helped to make use
of a community-sponsored, golden-age
club. Her attendance is sporadic and
depends upon her physical stability.
llowever, when she attends, she enjoys
the companionship, games with prizes,
and refreshments. Mr. B. has a great
need to be the “man” of the house. He
wanted “work.” He has regularly done
volunteer bandage rolling for thc hos-
pital during the past year, in his home.
In a sense, he feels this to be partial re-
payment for medical and social help he
and his wife have received. In addition
to these individual activities, summer
outings, such as a trip to the flower
show, the airport, and a TV program,
were enjoyed by the family.”

If others who work in general hos-
pitals are interested in more details,
we are sure Mrs. Paleos can furnish
thcin. Patients on home care, reeciving
recreation service, are in the minority
at present, but we feel this segment of
the hospital population will one day be
a large part of the recreation speeialist's
caseload.

'i' In the National Golf Foundation
Field Notes, for January, 1959, we
found an item about a professional
golfer who was a patient at the Colum-
bia. South Carolina, VA Hospital. Look-
ing at the lawns outside his hospital
window, he formulated a plan for a six-
hole, par-3 golf course, with thirty-foot

 

MRS. HILL is director of the NRA Con-

sulting Service on Recreation for the
Ni and Handicapped.

APRIL 1959

 

 

Beatrice ll. Ilill

-eireular greens. He worked out this plan

with hospital management, and the
course was developed last summer. lim-
phasis was put on safety factors, and
twenty-four to twenty-eight patients can
play without being struck. Sixty to sev-
cnty-five yards distance from the green
to the next tee provides walking exercise.
Although most patients have not played
golf before, it is a realistic activity in
terms of the age level of the patients
and has excellent carry-over value.

*i‘ We note, with interest, the growing
number of registration programs for
personnel within various state recrea-
tion associations. If there is one in your
state, by all means, look into it for it
will prove valuable. Don’t forget,
either, the national registration pro-
gram for recreation personnel working
with the ill and handicapped, conducted
by the Council for the Advancement of
Hospital Recreation.

“l' The state mental hospital in Kings‘
Park, New York, reports an interesting
activity, fcneing. Dr. Charles Buckman.
director of the hospital, says that fene-
ing is indicated in some cases because
it develops agility, coordination, poise,
and serves as an outlet to aggressive
urgcs. l’rotcetivc gear is worn to avoid
injury, and the foils are button-tipped.
Gerard Cushing, a member of the rcerc-
ation stall, is in charge of the program.

4‘ A useful reference is An Inventory
of Social and Economic Research in
Health, available free from the Health

Information Foundation, 420 Lexing-
ton Avenue, New York 17, New York.

4‘ Have you seen the new NRA re-
cruitment brochure entitled Recreation
Leadership with. the Iii and Handi-
capped? Single eOpics can be had free.

+ Recreation graduates working on
graduate degrees in recreation for the
ill and handicapped will be interested
to know that Recreation in Hospitals,
the report of the NRA study of organ-
ized recreation programs in hospitals,
carries a three-page list of theses.

0 When writing to our advertixrs please mention chnss'rtox.

 

  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
      
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
   

hsterp/ay../ongerh/e.
Far years DAYTON Steel lac-
quets have been the lavarite al
praiesslanals and beglnners
oillce. Thousands are new play-
Ing an Impraved gome—wlth
mare speed and accuracy than

ever belare.
Daytans are practiceliy Inde-

ltructlble—Jdeal far 

schaais and play-

graunds. Steel strings III” III
and tubular steel “Ill lilo.“
lrarnes are nat ale Iii hilth
iected by cllmatlc e] tennis are

changes. Na cavers ar
presses are needed ta
protect them. They won't
warp, splinter, rot or sag.

It will pay yau ta Investigate
naw. See them at your Iacol
dealer’s or write direct ta factary
tar mare inlarrnatian.

DAYIUH RACIIUET CUIIIPAH
149 Alhrlgltt St. Arcana. lI-llio

ayton

you: tor the:
asking.

 

STEEL RACQUE TS

100% ALUMINUM
TABLE TENNIS TABLES
E N T l R E I. Y CONSTRUCTED OF
HEAVY - DUTY ALUMINUM, exclu-
sively designed for intensive use in

all types of public recreation areas
located indoors and outdoors.

0 OUTLASTS all other ping-pong
tables in public areas.

e FOLDING ond RIGID lEG
MODELS.

0 Standard size and ball-
bounce.

e No maintenance or replace-
ment problems.

0 In 2 sections — 4' legs each
section. Eosily separated into
2 tables for many other uses.

0 Attroctively finished in green
non-glare surface and silver
lines.

e NATIONALLY USED FOR MANY
YEARS in Colleges, Schools,
Clubs, Playgrounds, Gymna-
siums, etc.

For Full Details, Write:

All Metal Tennis Table Co.
P.O. Box I42, Teaneck, N. J.

163

 

F or further information regarding
any of these products, write directly
to the manufacturer. Please mention
that you saw it in RECREATION.

Jean \Vacht-el

 

Two for the Playground

Capsule reports on new equipment for the playground:
0 One delightful item of many made
by Mexico Forge, is the Tree Climb-
er. It provides all the joys of tree
climbing, without danger of snap-
ping branches, rough bark (and con-
comitant scratches), and being hid-
den by leaves. Complete information
about this bright red-and-white dc-
vice can be had from The Mexico
Forge Company, Mexico, Pennsyl-
vania.

 

0 The youngsters can
really give themselves
a whirl on the Teeter-
Whirl, a combination
seesaw - merry - go -
round. Constructed of
sturdy tubular steel,
with wooden seats sus-
pended on auto-type
suspension bushing,
this piece seats four,
can be used in a vari-
ety of ways. Small fry
can seesaw in the usual way, push themselves around with
their feet as they teeter, or one child can push while others
ride. It is lightweight, presents no installation problem, re-
quires little maintenance. Available from Murphy Play-
ground Equipment Division, liolfe Products Company,
Mason City, Iowa.

 

0 Many new recreation and community
centers have large expanses of high,
glass picture windows, hard to reach
with ordinary window-washing equip-
ment. To answer this maintenance
problem the \Vhirl-a-Way window and
house washer was devised. The ro-
tating fountain brush is on a four-foot
handle, with sudser, and has three ex-
tensions bringing the length up to fif-
teen-feet. It is made from extra-heavy
gauge aluminum, with a 100 per cent
horsehair whirling brush. rThe sudser,
built into the brush, automatically suds
and rinses. The nonslip rubber grip
is designed to make it easy to pull for
suds and push for clear rinse. The shut-
off valve regulates water flow instantly,
with fingertip control. Address Depart-
ment T2, Osrow Products Company,

Glen Cove, New York.

 

    

o Ventilated storage is a ne-
cessity in every kind of lock-
er-room—gymnasiurn, tennis
court, swimming pool, club,
recreation center. Other im-
portant storage-unit require-
ments are case of access, ease
of visual inspection, and ease
of secure locking. Penco Metal
Products Division of Alan
Wood Steel Company manufac-
' b v- tures wire-mesh baskets and
2:?fiiif:35$. basket racks, which fit these

needs well. Both racks and
baskets come in varying sizes and heights, to fit your par-
ticular installation problem. The racks may be had in single-
face construction, for mounting against walls, or double-
faced units, where space permits access to both sides, or
they can be bolted end-to-end, for any desired arrangement.
Dividers are welded to shelves between basket locations and
at the end of each rack section, to prevent pilferage. Number
plates are firmly riveted to each basket, corresponding to
the number plate on the rack, and a wire loop in the top
frame of each basket corresponds to a hasp on the basket
rack for padlocking. Write Peneo at 200 Brower Avenue,
Oaks, Pennsylvania.

0”-

0 Chain-link wire fencing is generally just fencing, usually
made of steel, serving to enclose an area, adding nothing
special in the way of eye appeal and requiring constant main-
tenance. Now, however, a chain-link wire netting, new on
the market, colorful and decorative as well, provides needed
durability. It is called Filoplast, comes in six bright, wash-
able, fadeproof colors, is corrosion-resistant and nonrust-
ing. Filoplast is treated before weaving, with an extruded
coating of plasticized polyvinylchloride, a material renown
for its toughness and impervious to most chemicals, includ-
ing salt-water spray. The fencing can either be used to har-
monize with the surroundings or to set off a danger zone
by contrasting sharply with it. For complete information,
write Martin, Fountain & Company, 3426 Conrad Street,

Philadelphia 29.

0 Here’s good news for art-and-crafts leaders involved in
projects requiring paint. A new special-formula, resin-based
enamel, drying completely within fifteen minutes, is now
available for painting wood, metal, or masonry surfaces,
with roller, brush, spray, or dip. Jet-Dri is nontoxic, requires
no special thinners or solvents, and comes in eighteen
shades, clear varnish, and aluminum. Pieces thus painted
can be taken home at the end of the shop period, with two-
fold results: the studcnt has the satisfaction of completion
within one shop period, and additional shop space is not
taken for drying. Complete details can be had from Jet-Dri
Division, Consolidated Chemical & Paint Manufacturing
Company, lnc., 456 Driggs Avenue, Brooklyn 11, New York.

RECREATION

m

"DEX 0f ADVERTISERS

Page
Abingdon Press Hardwood-  129

All Metal Tennis Table Company _ 163
American Handicrafts - .r. lnslde back cover

American Playground Device Company
Inside front cover

American Trampoline Company 168
Caslello Fencing Equipment  129
Champion Knitwear Company
Inside front cover
Charles M. Graves Organization _ ,..____-,. 158
Chicago Roller Skate Company ...--- Back cover
Cleveland Crafts Company .W .______. 162
Cosom Industries ...__.._.._... 121
Dayton Steel Racquets 163
Delmer E. Harris Company 153
DimcoCray Company _-._-_, 166
Exposition Press .._..-.... 158
The FLXIBIE Company . 155
Id Medal Products __, - 166

   
   
  
   
 
   
 

Hillerich 8. Bradsby ---_.. lnside back cover

H. R. Manufacturing Company   153
lamesSpencera. Company .... -- . 158
Jayfro Athletic Supply Company - 165
J. E. Burke Company .. ........... -- 155
MacGregor Company -___..- s. lnside back cover

onroe Company m ,-_-  .. 165
-- nroe Sales. Inc. ..__.....   122
-+lational Sports Company  . . . 165

ational Studios _.______.__ 153
eter Carver Associates .____ 128

orter Athletic Equipment Company

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING

RATES: Words in regular type $.15 each
Words in boldface type $.25 each
Minimum ad accepted  $3.00

DEADLINES: Copy must be received by
the fifth of the month preceding date of
the issue in which ad is desired.

COPY: Type—or clearly print—your message and the address to which you wish
replies scnt. Underline any words you want to appear in boldface type.

Send copy with remittance to:
RECREATION Classified Advertising. 8 West Eighth Street. New York II. New York.

HELP WANTED

Student Mnjoriug in
Recreation Therapy, to
serve as assistant recrea-
tion director at prominent
rehabilitation center (luring
summcr recess. Excellent
opportunity to gain experi-
ence and assist in program
development. Interested in
student willing to assume
job as full-tiInc recreation
director upon completion of
building expansion in 1960.
Write to: Sttnnyview Ortho-
pedic and Rehabilitation
Center, 124 Rosa Road,
Schenectady. N e w Yo r I: .
Attention: Mr. Gene Tash-
man.

Camp counselors. Southern
Michigan, coed, private.

State expericnce. Liberal
salary for teachers. Lake of
the Woods Camp, 8001 Do!"-
cliester Avcnue, Chicago,
Illinois.

lieereationTlsernpists
for California State hospi-
tals. Opportunity to plan
and conduct individual pa-
ticnt recreation as well as
special group activities: ex-
cellent equipment and fa-
cilities available. Positions
open to college graduates
with major in recreation or
recreation therapy. No ex-
perience chuircd to start
at 5376. Promotions possi-
hlc to $644. Write State
Personnel Board, 801 Capi-
tol Avcnue, Sacramento,
California.

Teaehers. Sports, Arts. In-
dian and Nature Lore.
Canipcraft and Trips. For
Maine summer camps.
Write: Box 103. 'Chestnut
Hill 67, Massachusetts.

Openings available for staff
and supervisory recreation-
al therapists in Minncsota's
Inental Itcaltli program. Sal-
ary $39-18 to $5616 depend-
ent on cxperiencc. Vacancy
for rehabilitation therapies
supervisor, $5400 to $6564.
Degrcc plus several years
of supcrvisory cxpcrience.
Personnel Director, Dept.
of Public Welfare, 117 Uni-
versity Avenue, St. Paul 1,
Minnesota.

The publisher assumes no responsibility for services or items advertised here.

 

 

r“ A 11.0 N A I.
I 
I (IQCISION BlJlf. 1"

o 0(ALITY,GU- ' = ED

   
  
 

Front section lnsert

Program Aids Company _._...__..__.“-....-- 136
Ronald Press .,.- ._  .._., ..... . 12?

Superior Industries Corporation
lnside front cover

    
 
  
   
 
 
   
  

  

I s.

Write for o'Ur n use catalog. l

N.
I II II 1'! o II II I.
510m Cow-«pm
I 370 NORTH MARGUETTE. FOtlD DU UC. VHS.

T. F. Twardzik 8. Company _... 155 ‘ - - - - - - -
U. S. Rubber Reclaiming Company -.__..... 128
Vogel-Peterson Company "mums... .-  136
Voit . _ _.._ ,___-_. Center spread insert

   
   
 
         
     
       
     
       

      

FOI. DIN G
BANQUET

TABLES

Magazine Binders
$3.50 each

Direct
Prices 5 Discounts
To Churches. clubs.
Lodges. Schools
and All Organisa-
ItOI‘II.

titer 50.000 In-
stitutions own
run! use modern
Monroe Folding

Itattquel Tables.

Write for the new *
.\1(I.\'ltttl£ 5181'
ANN l\'l'ill.‘iA I! Y
(’A TA [.00 of
Folding Tables.
Folding Chairs.
Trucks. )lorshr 3‘“-
I'ol’tillons. Folt -
lug Itisin. elt‘. (2
Get our tum-1:1 prices.

quantity t bulimia. stro term:

Monroe Co.. 101 Church St.. Colin. Iowa

Factory

'BASKEIBAII
SIEEl CHAIN
NETS

3 Years Guarani“!

outdoors or Indoors
Aha lecturing onlro‘s custom built

J ALUMINUM MULTi-PURPOSE STANDARDS
NYLON as NETs 8. BALL CARRIERS
TETHERsALL POLES s. PADDLE SETS
ALUMINUM SHUFFLEBOARD SETS

J ALUMINUM BATTING TEEs

JAYFIO ATHLETIC SUPPLY CO.
I Dopt. I, Box 1065. NEW LONDON, CONN.

0 Heavy simulated leather

0 Gold stamped
0 Holds year’s issue
0 Opens flat for changes

           
  
     
      
      
   
 

Order front:
Recreation Magazine

8 West 81h Street
New York 11, N. Y.

    

KKK.

 

PRIL I959 Wltcn writing to our advcrtisers please mention RECREATION. 165

Shllebourd

Fun For Everyone!

From 8 to 80 here is exciting recrea-

tion for all ages . . . lIeen enioyment
far players and spectators.

Rugged, Dimco FreeGlide Shuii'le-
board sets are available for both out-
door and indoor installation.

Easy to install . . . low in uplIeepl

Write today for rowdy! folder, "Let's
Play Shuffleboar ,” containing com-

piete information on court layout and
eqrripment.

DIMCO-GRAY COMPANY

205 EAST SIXTH STREET
DAYTON 2, OHIO

  

l
l

  
    
 

-——\"“
e

Popcorn belongs in every recreation set- 1- I
cup. It‘s as American as Red, White and r

  

 

Blue. It's haolthiully delicious. There's .

 

§_c profit p5! dime sale.

     
  

   
 

 
 
 
      
   

     

 

I
-_ I"

' o
* . Y". \ \

     
 
  
 
  

 

p":

.= ‘, ,. r

 -2: Ci/o/ll

|r ll“ I"  I/o/l
.l  _’_:—e l
,..'_._I

  

I.
.‘_.

 

'- _ . WHIZ BANG It
‘ 0 Popcorn machine

   

Only $265.00. Pop up to 525.00 in sales

I I

|' l
per hour. Fully guaranteed for o yeor.
Write for information an this and other

I machines, from $199.00 to $1195.00.\
0 o

\
l " l \
I erte for complete catalog and Informo- 1
tion on drink dispensers, hot dog mochlnes,
cotton candy and Ice bolls. let Gold Medol

help you to the huge refreshment profits

that are available from every recreation“
program.

I o a l

  
  

 

GOLD MEDAL PRODUCTS CO.
318 E. THIRD, CINCINNATI 2, OHIO

l
'I_l-

 

' Fit-i:—  "I'Ir-- -

166

 

 

Magazine Articles

ARTS AND ACTIVITIES, March 1959.
Special Ceramic lssue
THE CAMP FIRE GIRL, More}: 1959.

 

Stretch the Boundaries of the Imagination,

Carol Johnstone Sharp.
JOHPER, November 1958.

Hospital Recreation—HTlIerapy or Fun?

George L. Sanford and Jerry Curtis.
NEA JOURNAL, February 1959.

What Kind of Help for the Delinqucnt?

William C. Kmraceus.
PARENTS', Illarch 1959.

What Youth Can Do When Grownups Help,

Garrett Oppenheim.

Which Way to Physical Fitness? Ruth and

Edward Brechcr.
PARK MAINTENANCE, January 1959.
Anti-Eucroachmcnt Issue

Beaks & Pamphlets
Received

 

Children

CHILD-CARING INSTITUTIONS, Martin Gula.

Government Printing Oliice, Washington

25. D. C. Pp. 27. 3.15.

CIHLDREN AROUND TIIE WORLD,‘ Miriam

TrOOp. Grossct and Dunlap, 1107 Broad-

way, New York. Pp. 205. $2.50.

CIRCUS IV TIIE JUNGLE,“ Denise and Alain
Trez. W'Orld Publishing, 2231 W. 1101h St.,
Cleveland 2. $3.00.

MANRIND’S CHILDREN (TIIE STORY OF
UNICEF), Robert 1.. Heilbroner. Public
Affairs Committee, 22 E. 38th St., New York
16. Pp. 20. 5.25.

ORPIIAN RACCOONS, TIIE,‘ Mary Louise Ed-

wards. Barton llouse, Box 315, Ann Arbor,

Mich. Pp. 77. $2.50.

PARENT’S GUIDE TO CHILDREN‘S READING, A,

Nancy Larrick. Doubleday 8; Co., 575 Mad-

ison Ave., New York 22. Pp. 283. $2.95.
(Paperbound edition. $.35, Pocket Books,

630 Fifth Ave, New York 20.)

PRIMER FOR PARENTS, A, Mary Ellen Good-

man. AnIi-Defamation League of B’nai
B'rith, 515 Madison Ave, New York 22.
Pp. 31. $.40.

SIIALL CHILDREN, TOO, BE FREE? (2nd ed.),
Dr. Howard A. Lane. Anti-Defamation
League of B’nai B’rith, 515 Madison Ave.,
New York 22. Pp. 32. 3.25.

WIIAT’S WHAT FOR CIIILDREN (3rd ed.) 1959,
Eve Kassirer, Editor. Citizen’s Committee
on Childrcn, Runge Press, 12408 Queen St.,
Ontario, Canada. Pp. 117. 3.55.

YOUR CHILD’S PLAY, Grace Langdon, Ph.D.
Nat’l Soc. for Crippled Children and

Adults, 11 S. LaSalle St., Chicago 3. Pp.
26. 3.25.

Church Programs

 

IN YOUR HANDS (Guide for Community Ac-

tion). Church Peace Union, 170 E. 64th St.,
New York 21. Pp. 32. 3.50.

STANDARD CHILDREN’S DAY PROGRAM BOOK

"‘ For young readers.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

    

 

SIIELLCRAFT, Anthony Parker.

(No. 9). Standard Publishing, 8100 Ham-
ilton Ave., Cincinnati 31, Pp. 32. $.40.

YOUTH PROGRAMS: ABC’S OF SUCCESS-

FUL PROGRAMS, TIIE, Gene French, Pp. 221,
$2.00. PLANNED YOUTII PROGRAMS FOR
JUMORS No. 1 8.- No. 2; FOR JUNIOR HI‘S
N0. 1 8r 2, all by George Santa, $1.00 each
(paperhound). PROGRAMS AND PARTIES FOR
III-TEENS, Tom Bennett, Editor, Pp. 62,
paper, $.75. PRIZE-WINNING JUNIOR CHURCH
PROGRAMS, Ora J. Clairess, Pp. 63, paper,
$1.00. SIMPLE OBJECT LESSONS FOR SPECIAL
DAYS AND OCCASIONS, Dorothy Pentecost,
Pp. 31, $.50. TESTED YOUTH PROGRAMS,
Donald E. Hall, Pp. 121, $2.00. YEARS THAT
COUNT, THE, Rosalind Rinker, Pp. 118,
$2.00. Zondervan Publishing House, 1415
Lake Dr., S. E., Grand Rapids 6, Mich.

Hobbies, Pets

h

COIN COLLECTORs’ GUIDE (1958-59), Deane

Sears and Martin Rywell. Pioneer Press,
Harriman, Tenn. Pp. 70. Paper, $1.50.

CREATIvE IIANDWORE IDEAS, Mary Jackson

Ellis. T. S. Denison, 321 5th Ave. 5., Minn-
capolis. Pp. 93. $3.50.

PET BOOK, A. Barton. H’art Puhlishing, 74 5th

Ave., New York ll. Pp. 128. $2.75.

PROFESSIONAL MAGIC MADE EASY, Bruce Elli-

ott. Harper 8' Bros, 49 E. 33rd St., New
York 16. Pp. 225. $3.50.

SECRETS OF VENTRILOQI'ISM FOR BOYS AND

GIRLS, TIIE, Douglas llouldon. Sportshelf, '

P.O. Box 634, New Rochclle, N.Y. Pp. 63.
$3.00.

Charles T.
Branford, 69 Union St., Newton Centre 59,

Mass. Pp. 95. $2.95.

S TA M P S : STA MP COLLECTORS ENCYCLO-

PAEDIA, A, Pp. 350; STAMP CURIOSITIES,
Pp. 285; Both by R. .1. Sutton. Philo-
sophical Library, 15 E. 4001 St., New York I
16. $6.00 each.

TREASURY OF THE. WORLD’S COINS, Fred Rein-

fcld. Dover Publications, 920 Broadway, I
New York 10. Pp. 224. Paper, $1.75.

Juvenile Delinquency

 

SItOOR-UP GENERATION, TIIE, Harrison E. Sal-
isbury. Harper 8; Bros., 49 E. 33rd St., New

York 16. Pp. 244, $3.95.

WIIAT P.T.A. MEMBERS SIIOULD KNOW ABOUT

JUVENILE DELINQUENCY, Vera J. Dickhofl.

Nat’l Congress of Parents and Teachcrs, 700

N. Rush St., Chicago 11. Pp. 96. $.50.
YOUTIIFUL OFFENDERS AT IIIGIIFIELDS, 11. Ash-

ley Weeks. University of Michigan Press,
Ann ArbOr. Pp. 208. $6.00.

Teenagers

 

AMERICAN HIGII SCIIOOL TODAY, THE, James
B. Conant. McGraw-Hill, 330 W. 42nd St.,
New York 36. Pp. 140. Paper, $1.00.

ART FOR YOUNG PEOPLE, Eugenie Alexander
and Bernard Carter. Sportshelf, P.O. Box
634, New Rochelle, N. Y. Pp. 83. $5.75.

HANDBOOK OF CO-ED TEEN ACTIVITIES, Edythe
and David DeMarche. Association Press,
291 Broadway, New York 7. Pp. 640. $7.95.

How TO UNDERSTAND AND REACH TEEN-AGERS,
John M. Gran. T. S. Denison 8: Co., 321 5th
Avc., 5., Minneapolis 15. Pp. 229. $3.95.

LEARN TO DANCE, Courtenay Castle. Sport-
shelf, P.O. Box 634, New Rochelle, N. Y.
Pp. 128. $3.00.

UNDERSTANDING GIRLS, Clarence G. Mose-r.

Association Press, 291 Broadway, NewYork
7. Pp. 252. $3.50.

RECREATION

q
|

 

 
  
  
   
 
  
  
   
  
  
   
   
   
   
   
 
  
 
 
   
  
  
   
 
   
  
 
   
   
  
 
   
   
  

The Honey-pod Tree, Florence l. lat-
'more. The John Day Company, 62
est 45th Street, New York 36. Pp.
20. $4'.50.

This story of the life work of a re-
larkahle man, and what he did to help
is race find its place in the sun, can
)e an inspiration to each and every one
f us. 11 should make us want to ex-
md our reach and grow as a leader
nd as a person, for it is a lesson in sin-
erity and humility. The contents of
his book were narrated to the author.
y Mr. Walker, only after prolonged
ntreaty and Miss Lattimorc had he-
omc familiar with his work.

Thomas Calhoun Walker was born
nto slavery, to become one of this coun-
ry’s great Negro leaders, a government.
flicial in eharge of Negro affairs, and a

romincnt lawyer for both Negroes and

'hite people in his native Gloucester.
"irginia. llc had the trust and affection
f both. There was never a day of his
ong adult life, and he lived to he over
iiuety, when he was not thinking of his
oplc.

Although an idealist, he was a man of
aetion rather than a dreamer; and if he
lid not know how a thing could he done.
e started doing it anyway, and thus
und out. During his ehildhood, a per-
d of upheaval when slaves were being
reed and seeking new lives. he managed
0 get himself educated so that he might
ctter know how to help them. He set
p schools and taught them himself.
ntil adequate help was fortheoming.
lis own schooling took place at Hamp-
11 Institute, where there now hangs a
- autiful portrait of him, painted hv
)avid Silvette. It catches the warm look
fa wise and gentle man.

All of his life he did what seemed to
'- utterly impossible by refusing to ae-
ept anything less. One night, for ex-
mple, he learned of thirteen Negro
ys who had been jailed for some
tinor, though real, offense. With no law
) hack him up, and no plan of what
0 do with them, he went to the jail and
‘talked" them out of it, in much the
me way he had talked himself into
' ampton. lle took them to his own
tome, and he and his wife housed, fed,

 

enn.1959

I'm-wring the Leisure-tian Field

and rchahilitated them. He continued
this sort of activity all of his life. Any
Negro who was in trouble was free to
come to him for help; and thousands
did. He came to known far and wide as
“Lawyer Walker of Gloucester.”

In regard to the honey-pod tree, the
well-chosen symhol of his life, he says,
“Near my home, and not far from the
courthouse, stood the honey-pod treé
that shaded the old slave block for many
years hefore the Civil War. Whenever
there were puhlie sales of Negroes they
were assembled under this tree and auc-
tioned off to the highest hidder . . .
after the War the Negroes would gather
under this tree on Emaneipation Day
and hear the proclamation read from
the old slave hloek. Later on it was de-
eided to destroy the old tree so a road
could go through the plaee. . . .

“1 often glance across to the place
where it stood and think of how new
roads must he built all over our land
for the use of oneoming generations
through destruction of other honey-pod
trees and slave blocks. There are plenty
of them in this postwar period and
atoniie age. Our coming leaders will be
well advised to wateh out for them.
More subtle forms of slavery are being
sheltered by new honey-pod trees, and
they are not as easy to detect. . . .”

Mr. Walker died in 1953. He was the
father of our own Craec Walker, of the
National Recreation Assoeiation staff.

—Dorothy Donaldson

The Mentally Retarded Child at

Home, lauro l. Dittmann. Superintend-
ent of Documents, Washington 25,

o.c. Pp. 100. $.35.

licereation leaders know well that at-
titudes and feelings of ehildrcn can be
modified during reereation aetivity but,
however, these attitudes are nurtured
and deveIOped in the home. This is just
as true of ehildren who are intellectu-
ally retarded as of average and superior
children. The federal Children’s Bu-
reau, recognizing the need for a guide
for parents and other adults working
with noninstitutional retarded children.
has issued this publication.

It approaches the problem from the

standpoint of growth processes and
stresses and com pa rcs the retarded ehild
with other eliildren. Covering most of
the faeets of child rearing, ineluding
play, group experience, toys and play
equipment, this booklet can he helpful
in understanding all ehildrcn.

The recreation leader who is working
with retarded ehildrcn especially, or
who plans to, will find this hooklct use-
ful as he approaches the prohlems in-
volved—Elliott M. Cohen, NRA Con-

snltr'ng Service on Recreation for the

I ll and ll andr'capperl .

Human Understanding in Industry,
William C. Menninger, M.D. ond Horry
levinson, Ph.D. Science Research As-
sociates, 57 West Grand Avenue, Chi-
cago 10. Pp. 104. Paper, $2.25 fac-
companying Leader's Guide, $1.50).

Dvs. Menninger and Levinson are
general secretary and director, respec-
tively, of the Division of Industrial
Mental Health of the Mcnninger Foun-
dation. This publication is a result of
requests for sourec material from these
two well-informed authors, to he used
in training courses in human relations.

The supervisor is identified as the key
person in influencing morale and mak-
ing people feel important or insignifi-
cant, hclping them huild an operating
pattern of harmony and cflicicncy or of
frietion and disruption. The quality of
performance and the attitude toward
the job and organization are influenced
largely by the supervisory relationship
with employees.

The authors remind us that the un-
conseious part of our personality is like
an iceberg, nine-tenths submerged. All
experienecs, from ehildhood to old age,
are stored in the subconscious and all
have a part in shaping personality. This
aeeounts for our behaviour and is the
reason it is important for supervisors to
know their people thoroughly—W. C.

Sutherland, NRA Recreation Personnel
Service.

Good Times Together, Jomes D.

Macholtz. Warner Press, Anderson,
Indiana. Pp. 80. Paper, $1.25.

This small hook consists of twelve
plans for fun and fellowship in the
ehurch, plus a diseussion of the place
of rcereation in the ehureh program,
and a short chapter on leadership. Eaeh
plan, including holiday parties, a cook-
out. a progressive party, and a picnic, is
fairly short but supplies enough inform-
ation to give a program committee con-
fidcncc.

A nice spirit runs through the hook.
making it an excellent choice for a
young or inexperienced church leader.

167

 

AMERICAN TRAMPOLINES

 
  

    

I'VE COMPARED

   

WITH ALL OTHERS” .AND
THERE'S N0 COMPARISON!

 
   
     

 

HEAVY DUTY no of 100% nylon,
1%" or I" webbing. stitched
lengthwise under tension on
Americon's precision looms. Dou-
ble'thick cotton duck or nylon
convos beds olso ovoiloble.
Stronger rubber cobles perform
better . . . lost longer.

I-‘u.

 
   
  

I TRIPLE BRIDGED lEG SECTIONS—
:" an American exclusive — give
maximum strength for un-
e uolled performance and longer
lie. Sofer because there is no

   

   
 

   
  

understructure beneoth perform.
once oreo.

/’ 9N???” _.

  
 

 e

RIGID FRAME feotures many engineering
firsts. including SPACED DUAL side and end
rails for greater strength . . . flot double-
oction steel hinges and exclusive hanger
bar system for greater safety. NEW JET-
BlACK FRAME gwes performer constant,
clear-cut check on his position over the
trampoline.

  

Like sugar and salt, trampolines might look alike . . .

 
   
 

but there's a world of difference. American's exclusive

 
    

features make a big difference in durability and perform-

 
   
   

ance. American's rigid frame gives you the benefit of a
full bounce . . . American's side and end rails are n0t only
spaced but reinforced for added strength . . . American's
exclusive triple bridged legs better balance the unit for
maximum support . . . American's new black frame stands
out for extra safety — these are some of the little things
that add up to longer wear and more trampolinng fun.
Don’t be talked into just any trampoline . . insist on

American!

American Trampolines Meet All A. A. U. and N. C. A. A.
Specifications And Are Guaranteed To Be of the Highest Quality

 

More economical, non-folding trompalines for generol outdoor
Use are also manufactured by American. Ideal for backyards,
camps, playgrounds, etc. American also offers the most od-

Our new catalog and prices are
vanced line of DlVE-O—TRAMPS for added swimming fun.

yours for the asking—write today!

AMERICAN TRAMPOLINE COMPANY - JEFFERSON 20. IOWA

If ith an AMERICAN. it'g the FINEST Trampoline

RECREATION

 

 

 

 

    
   
   
   
    
 
 
   
   
 
  
   
  

THESE
H & B ANNUALS r “Lb::l:‘;:.:*g:2::..
ARE READY NOW ........  .................. -

FREE FOR YOUR TEAMS

THE 75th
ANNIVERSARY .  .. I

FAMOUS szRER ___________ u; ..................... ..
I YEAR 800K

Free for your team
members. Contains
statistics and records
on last season. Also
pictures and article
by Stan Musial on
rules for hitting.

 

   
   
 

    

I
I
I
I
I
I
l
I
l
I
+
l
l
I
I
I
l
l
l
l
|
l
I
I
I
l
I
l
I
I
I
I

 

1959 SUFTBAll
RULE 800K

Contains complete offi-
cial I959 softball rules.
pictures of the I958
World's Softball
Champs and other
valuable information.

-——-———-——-—
k
_

 

. I

Look to MocGregor first for the finest in all sperts equipment.

The MacGregor Co. ' Cincinnati 32, Ohio
rooraAtt - sAsesAtt - sAsKEIsAtt - GOtF . TENNIS

' COR!

Whatever your requirements, you’ll and the right craft

 

' at the right price. Many popular crafts are available in

     ' individual kits and bulk-packed for institutions at lower
LOUISVILLE SLUGGER BAT AND . gram. f , , , .1 b1

rcc crat instruction movaes are avaia e to groUps.

   Free demonstrations of crafts are given upon request;

We Will be glad to send you copies of the l959 Louis. I free craft instruction is available at all our stores and

annual Craft Clinics for individuals, craft teachers, camp
your ready reference in ordering from your dealer. Address l counselors. etc-

ville Slugger Bat and Grand Slam Golf Club Catalogs for

Write for free copy of Craft Chatter, l2-pa e magazine
of information and instruction. Write for ree 64-page
illustrated catalog of over 30 crafts, including mosaics.

ADVERTISING DEPT.
AMERICAN HANDICRAF‘I’S CO.

l r. o. 30:: 1643-2 FORT worm I. TEXAS I
| _m____

Hillerich & Bradsby Company. Louisville. Ky. Dept. [2-9.

  

 

1r ANNOUNCEMENT!

Remittances must accompany all elassilied adver-

tising orders or the ads cannot BE RUN! The only

erate rates is because we do not have the usual hill-
ing expenses. Write for classilied advertising llyer

reason we can offer this service to you at such mod-
for full details. -

   

BATS

Choice of the Champions

RECREATION Magazine
8 West Eighth Street
New York 11. New York

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention llacamnos.

.I—I——--|- krill-

For Exercise and Recreation

N YOUR GYM

More youngsters can be active in a given
area through roller skating than in any
other sport...and it’s fun. Little equip-
ment is needed, little supervision is neces-
sary. That’s why more and more schools
are making roller skating a definite part of
their physical education and recreation
programs. Why not inquire today!

 

 

4490-D West Lake Street, Chicago 24, Illinois

 

ARE KIND
TO GYM FLOORS

New Duryte plastic wheels have a
long life and are guaranteed not to
mar or scratch gym floors. "Chi-
ca go” has a skate designed for every
type of floor surface or finish. Write
today for free details on roller skat-
ing programs and skating equipment.

 

