 

   

S erie s

turn $1825 into $25QQ
fourteen months quicker

than ever before

Here are three new reasons why today’s
Savings Bonds are the best ones in history:

1. Every Boml bought since June 1, 1959,
earns 3%% interest when held the full
term. Series E Bomls now mature in 7
years, 9 months—fourteen months
faster than ever before.

2. Your older Bonds now earn more—an

extra %% from June 1 on, until ma-
turity.

3. All Series E Bomls, ohl aml new, carry
an automatic extension privilege now.
This means they’ll automatically keep
earning liberal interest for 10 years
beyond maturity.

You get these new advantages, plus com-
plete safety, guaranteed return, and pro-
tection against loss or theft when you save
with Bonds. And there’s no easier way to
save. You can buy Bonds automatically
through the Payroll Savings Plan at work,
or from any bank. Plan to start saving with
U.S. Savings Bonds—they’re the best ever.

 

   

  
   
   

YOUR MONEY GROWS 33'/3%
IN JUST 7 YEARS AND 9 MONTHS
WITH NEW SERIES E BONDS

YOU SAVE MORE THAN MONEY

with U.S. Savings Bonds

. ¢OWO
The U.S. Government does not pay for this advertising. The Treasury Department thanks ’9 \g
The Advertising Council and this magazine for their patriotic donation. . .

 

You could buy _t_h_r_e_e

competitive balls and not get the
value you’ll be getting with

ogge new Voit Ioosahedron ball.

When you buy balls, what you're really buying is bounces.
Recently, when a completely reliable and impartial

expert. United States Testing Company, tested Voit and
competitive balls to failure in a bounce machine,

their report showed Voit balls tested outlasted the nearest
of four com etitive brands tested b more than 3 to 1.

 

We thought their test results were a clear and
convincing reason to buy Voit. Don't you think so. too?

  

W. J. VOIT RUBBER CORP.
New York 11 - Chicago 11 - Los Angeles 11

A Subsidiary of American Machine a Foundry Company

; FEBRUARY 1960

Voit lcosahedron Average bounces before failure 268,145— '—

fr.

Brand A average 86,187—
Brand 8 average 79,104 —-
Brand C average 53,497

Brand D average 34,660 —-

(Report #51093
March 25, 1959)

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

49

 

50

THE  

WHEREVER .
CHILDREN PLAY

Recreation equipment with
engineered safety to meet
the most rigid requirements.

I Playground Equipment
0 Indoor Basketball Backstops
0 Swimming Pool Equipment

Literature for each line avail-
able on request—please specify.

DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED

RECREATION
EQUIPMENT CORP

Dcpt. [£160 -— 724 W. 8th St.
Anderson, Indiana

 

Eliminate old fashioned
basket checking

REDUCE PAYRUIIS

Modern. serve-self Sentinel Lockers
do away with old-ster bags and
baskets. prevent pilfering and rid
you of the risk of custody liability.

Patrons like the improved serv-
ice. too. No standing in line. more
privacy and higher security for
clothes and other personal pos-
sessions.

Coin-and-key operated lockers
mean a big increase in your rev-
enue as well as payroll savings . . .

enough to pay for the investment
over and over again.

Now is the time to get the com-

plete Sentinel story . . . there's no
obligation. Write . . .

QSENT'NEL

COIN-AND-KEY

OPERATED CHECKING SYSTEMS

THE FLXIBLE COMPANY

LOIJQONVILLE, OHIO.

r ¢ v‘"‘-—*v

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

  

Readers! You are invited to send letters for this page

to Editor, RECREATION, 8 West Eighth Street, New
York 11—30 that your ideas, opinions and attitudes
may be exchanged with others on the wide range of
subjects of concern to us all. Here is your chance to
agree or disagree with the authors of our articles.
Keep letters brief—not more than 250 words.

International Exchange Rccrcation
Sirs:

I have recently received this year’s
appeal from the International Recrea-
tion Association asking us to assume the
host role for an exchange recreation
leader from another country, for a pe-
riod of one to four weeks duration. In
195%, while serving in Provincetown,
Massachusetts, it was my good fortune
to host an exchange leader, Mr. J'uergan
I’alm, from Germany.

I consider this one of the richest and
most rewarding experiences of my ca-
reer and strongly urge all who have not
had this opportunity, to take advantage
of the program this year and support
IRA. Besides helping your guest spread
the message of recreation throughout
the world, you will be amazed at the
number of ideas and impressions you
will gain from him.

I have always found my fellow recre-
ators to be the most friendly and helpful
group of professional people there are.
By hosting an exchange, you not only
solidify this position, but you will find
that our “foreign” rccreators are just
as warm and just as dedicated a group.

PETER A. DEIMEL, Assistant Super-

intendent of Recreation, Greenwich.

Connecticut.

Florida’s Irisll Fair
Sirs:

Our Hollywood Irish Fair [see “He-
porter’s Notebook,” RECREATIOZN, June
1938 and February 1957] grew into a
Broward County event in 1959, and
recreation directors from Dania. Fort
Laudcrdale, Pompano Beach, and Hal-
landalc participated and directed many
of the activities. Six thousand young-
sters registered in sixty-four events— -
from tennis, swimming, sailing, golf,
field events, kick-ball, weightlifting. vol-
leyhall, tug-of-war, and cake bakes.
freckle contest, doll show to arts, crafts,
music and dancing, including an Irish
Musical, with a cast of 160. The musi-
cal revue was directed by Eileen Wall,
who helped so ably with the Gold Coast

——-The Editors.

motorcycle corps program, that you
presented in the September [1958] REC-
REATION Magazine.

The opening ceremonies were at-
tended hy city officials of the twelve
towns of Broward County, representa-
lives of one hundred civic organizations,
visiting dignitaries, and celebrities. In-
vitations were extended to John Hearne,
ambassador of Ireland, Governor Col-
lins, and Bat Masterson (especially for
the youngstersl. All day was hooked
solid with games. competitions, band
concerts, exhibitions, scout encamp-
ments, picnics, displays. and entertain-
ments. Green Shoe Rollers competed
at the local skating arena and sailing.
swimming, golf, and tennis tournaments
took place in their respective areas.

Climax of the fair, on the seventeenth.
was the running of the Invitational In-
ternational Mile and Quarter-Mile. The
events included special high-school and
university dashes and relays. Peter
Close, Lazlo Tabori, Tom O’Riordan.
Eddie Southern, Tom Murphy, and Jim
Casteel are among those who accepted.
Our physical fitness program is well
organized and successful all year; and
quick-witted youngsters vied for points
against their physically fit counterparts
in “fun competitions” during Irish Fair.
Our own version of "mind and muscle.9
had an added attraction—a Liberty
Stinger missile that roars and spouts
was on display with two air-force men
in attendance.

The civic organizations set up dis-
plays of their particular youth projects
that included sports, scholarship, art.
drama. and assistance in employment
and guidance throughout the year. The
sports natural to this area. such as swim-
ming, sailing. tennis and golf, always
have tremendous registrations and ex-
citing tournaments. We even grew our
own shamrocks, right in the recreation
ollice.

Of course, you did not have to he
Irish to be in the Irish liair.

PATRICK J. I'IENEGIMN. Recreation
Superintendent, Hollywood, Florida.

R EtiREATlON

FEBRUARY 1960

 

Editor in Chief, JOSEPH PRENDERGAST
Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON

ASSISTANT EDITORS
JEAN WACHTEL ELVIRA DELANY
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Administration, GEORGE BUTLER
Program, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

VOL. LIII. Price 50 Cents No. 2

0n the Cover
IN THE DEPTHS. During an unprecedented sixty-

day underwater cruise by the US. Navy’s second
atomic submarine, the USS Seawolf, one of the
greatest problems turned out to be what to do with
off-duty hours. Here TorpedonIan First Class Rich-
ard Champagne works on a model ship. For the
whole story of submarine reereation, read Edmund
Waller’s “Recreation Forty Fathoms Down” on Page

56. Ollicial U.S. Navy Photograph.

Next Month

The March issue will be bulging with good, solid
camping material of all kinds including articles
about various day camp programs, an excellent arti-
cle on the philosophy Of camping by Julian Salo-
nIon, Stan Stocker’s article on what puhlic lands are
available for camping, family camping, a progres-
sive camping setup in California, and Catherine
Hammett’s “Don’t Take the Playground to Camp.”
You’ll also read Part II Of Skip Winans’ article on
youth in Asia and a study report on maintenance
prohlems.

Photo Credits

Page 52, Anne Turner (13), Dillon, South Carolina,
1959 Kodak High School Photo Contest Winner;
60-61 and 66-67, YMCA World Service Photos; 64-65,
British Information Services; 68, Don Knight, Abi-
lene, Texas; 69, (left) Gerald R. Massie, Missouri
Resources Division, Jefferson City; (right) Ralph
Norman Studio, Boston; 86, Sunland-Tujunga Re-
cord Ledger; 87, Jimmy Codown (15), Memphis,
Tcnncssee, 1959 Kodak High School Photo Contest
Winner; 88 and 91, cartoons, Copyright 1949, Curtis
Publishing Company.

RECREATION is published monthly except July and
August by the National Recreation Association. a service
organization supported by voluntary contributions. at 8
West Eighth Street. New York 11. New York. is on
tile in public libraries and is indexed in the Reade-ff
Guide. Subscriptions $4.00 a year. Canadian and for-
eign subscription rate 34.50. Re-entered as second-class
matter April 25, 1950, at the Post Odice in New York,
New York under Act of March 3. 1879. Acceptance
for mailing at special rate of postage provided or in
Senior: 1103. Ac: of October 3, 1917, authorized May
1. 1924. Microfilms of current issues available UnI-
versity Microfilms, 313 N. First Street, Ann Arbor.
Michigan. “

Space Representatives: Mark Minaban, 185 North Wa-
bash Avenue, Chicago 1, Illinois.

Copyright, 1960, by the
National Recreation Association, Incorporated

Printed in the U.S.A.
on

' Trade mark registered in U. 5. Patent Ofiice.

 

 

TEBRUARY 1960

   
 

 

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

CONTENTS

GENERAL FEATURES

The Dream (Editorial) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Tlromas Griffith 52

Recreation Forty Fathoms Down . . . . . .Edmmul M. Waller 56

Strong Constitution Necdcd . . . . . . . . . .Samuel E. Viekors 58

Fun Travels North . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .H. Gordon McFarlane 59

Aceent on Youth in Asia (Part I) . . . . . .Sterling S. Wiuaus 60

Recreation in Outer Mongolia . . . . . . .Ilarrison S. Salisbury 63

The Politics of Leisure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I] . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64

Just for the Fun of It . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66

American Teen-Agch in Japan . . . . . . . . .Sgt. Jerry S. Roy 70

Good Sports—Good Friends . . . . . . . . . . . .Harold F. Moor 72
ADNIINISTRATION

Floodlighting Outdoor Recreation Areas . . Wallace W. [Void 74

Local and State Developments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77

Airhouses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Don Slriugler 78

School-City Cooperation in Recreation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80

Research Reviews and Abstracts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85

Personnel: Voluntary Registration in New York State

Sal J. Prezioso 90

PROGRAI“
Winter Camping . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Stauley W. Stacker 68

Have You Tried . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

A Happiness Fund? . . . . . . . . . . . . .Artlmr E. Westwall 73

A Fairy Tale Festival? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 91

Winter Comfort Out-of-Doors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82

Leisure-Time Pursuits in College . . . . . . .Agues M. Ilooley 83

Having Fun with Spanish . . . . . . . . . . .Mariou C. Sparrow 86

Hospital Fish . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jeau Jackson 87

Hero Month . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96

REGULAR FEATURES

Letters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50

Things You Should Know . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54

A Reporter’s Notebook . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88

Market News . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92

Classified Advertising . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93

Index of Advertisers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93

Books and Pamphlets Received, Magazine Articles . . . . . . . 94

New Publications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95

 

DU CATIONAL

 I ATION The orticles herein printed are the expres-

OF sion of the writers one! not a statement of
AMER ] CA - I. I. . . policy of the National Recreolion Association.

51

Editorial

52

SOMETIMES I dream of a land where patriotism is not considered a superi-
ority to others but a pride in being the hospitable center of the best from
everywhere; where differences in color and race are not falsely denied but
make a competition in being the best; where justice inhabits the courts, wis-
dom the legislatures, and honor the markets; where duty is followed but in
no dull way and pleasures are lighthearted; where the last is not least and
the highest is not proud; where grab is despised and giving prized; where
trust is unfeigned, knowing it will not be disappointed; whcre tranquillity is
to be found, but not torpor, and raucous varicty also has its place; where
weaknesses are not denied but excellcnces are exalted; where diversity roams
free, and the unity of the dour and the carefree, the homely and the favored,
the comfortable and the restless is in their unafraid belief in each other’s
freedom; where men are not angels but do not make a business of bcing dev-
ils; where nobility is not mere respectability and virtue does not produce a
snigger; where the clang of work and the clamor of play attest to the common
health; where enemies cannot reach us because our merit, and not our guns
or our propaganda, has won the world to our side. . . It is a very disturbing
dream.

From The Waist-High Culture by Thomas Crifith, published by Harper and Brothers,
New York City. Mr. Crzfith is senior editor of Time magazine.

 

RECREATION

QUOTABLES

Thoughts on Leisure

. . . Now we stand on the threshold of
an age that will bring leisure to all of
us, more leisure than all the aristocra-
cies Of history, all the patrons of art,
all the captains of industry, and kings
of industry ever had at their disposal.
NVith this leisure the opportunity to
educate oursclves up to the limits of
our own individual capacities will be
brought within the range of all of us.

What shall we do with this great op-
portunity? In the answers that we give
to this question the fate of our Ameri-
can civilization will unfold—A. WHIT-
NEY GRISWOLD (Life, December 28,
1959).

One of the greatest problems of mod-
ern civilization is loneliness. Loneliness
is partly due to the fact that leisure is
not used creatively, that the leisure time

. . . Lei-

sure we have—-—we need to learn to use

bccomes a period of lostness.

it creatively. For it can be destructive
or it can be a means of building phys-
ical, mental stamina, of generating
power and inspiration.—GEORGE DE
HUSZAR, in Practical Applications of
Democracy.

Leisure used to be something you
earned after working hard and coming
home exhausted. And the function of
leisure, play, recreation was restorative
—-—tO help a person comeback to his job
with new vigor. Since work is no longer
exhausting, recreation has a different
function. Its function is to restore a
meaning to onc’s life through creative
activity of the person’s own choosing.
-—-DR. EDWARD J. STAINBROOK, chair-
man, Department of Psychiatry, School

of Medicine, University Of California.

It is to be hoped that the spare time
resulting from the forty-hour week will
not be devoted wholly to baseball and
sports, but that we shall see the enjoy-
ment of beauty spread over into the
common affairs of daily life—WILLIAM
CHURCH OSBORNE (Think).

FEBRUARY 1960

   
  
  
  
   

A SOUND APPROACH
TO HEALTH AND
PHYSICAL EDUCATION . . .

..wn.calilone

COMPLETE SOUND SYSTEM

Ideal for INDOORS, OUTDOORS,

ATHLETIC FIELD or GYMNASIUM

0 SINGLE UNIT CONSTRUCTION
- LIGHTWEIGHT, PORTABLE
- POWERFUL

- VARIABLE SPEED CONTROL for
classes in rhythms, movement
fundamentals.

- EXCELLENT P.A. SYSTEM for games
and other physical education require-
ments for up to 3500 persons.

- Califone’s exclusive CUEMASTER
providing instantaneous phrase
selection. Optional on many Califone
models.

PROMENADE
MODEL 25V-8A

PROFESSIONAL NET . . . $199.50
With CUEMASTER . . . $12.50 additional

Write for detailed information on this unique model and other
models to fit your budget — Dept. R-Z.

C a I  f 0 n e CORPORATION

1020 NO. LA BREA AVENUE 0 HOLLYWOOD 38, CALIFORNIA

5 rm 7 mm no” more” NEEDS mar:

Whirlwind
Cotton Candy
Mochine

 

Pop A Lot .ea-S'IIX’ ,c

 
    

Popcorn Sno-Konetto
Machine  lce Shaver
$199.00 *‘ " ' ‘“ $149.50

 
 

$5,000 ANNUAL PROFIT!

Don't handicap your program for lack of funds. Refresh-
ment Profits give you 10% more funds. Write for free 32-
page booklet which tells how easily your department can
earn them. Free 120-page catalog and descriptive literature
is also yours for the asking. Write today.

 
     
 

com MEDAL vacuum (0.

308 E. THIRD STREET CINCINNATI 2, OHIO

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 
 

 

    
 

 
     
 
 

 
   
 

53

“my grandfather makes the best play-
ground equipment in the whole world

...hecause he loves little people like me!
he makes slides and swings and see-saws
and all kinds of things. they’re real strong
and they're very safe. if you're goingto buy
playground things you better talk to my

grandfather or my father first. they're both
named mr. hurke."

00......0....OOIOIOOOOIOOOOOOOIOOO

J. E. BURKE COMPANY

P. 0. Box 986 Dept. 55 P. 0. Box 549 Dept. 55

New Brunswick, Fond du Lac,
New Jersey on Wisconsin
Name:

Street: __
City: State:_ _ ..___..

54 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

 

b JOINT EFFORT is urged by the U. S.
Department of the Interior to save
America’s historical heritage. In a bro-
ehure on the history program of the
National Park Service, it suggests a
joint venture in which federal, state,
and local agencies, patriotic organiza-
tions or individuals work as partners
to save as much as possible for our
children and future generations. The
dramatic “reawakening of history” in
the National Park System, under Mis-
sion 66, is described in the illustrated
booklet, entitled That the Past Shall
Live. Copies of the publication are be-
ing placed in major libraries, sent to
conservation leaders, and various edu-
eational institutions, and will be avail-
able in most Park Service field offices.
An overseas distribution is being made
by the U. S. Information Agency.

The Mission 66 program has com-
pleted a total of 708 projects, worth
$36,616,000, and placed under con-
struetion or committed for construction,
an additional 710 projects, involving
investment of $59,083,000, during fis-

cal year 1959, according to National
Park Service Director Conrad L. \Virth.

D INTRODUCTION TO SCIENCE is the pur-
pose of a Christmas vacation project
started in December at the Rockefeller
Institute, New York City, where an an-
nual series of lectures on science was
established for teen-agers. This is to be
givcn for the youngsters at Christmas-
titne by some of the world’s foremost
scientists. Object: inspiration rather
than instruction.

> NBA AFFILIATES are invited to join
in a search for an American family who
best typifies wholesome family life.
This search is being conducted by the
Crolier Society with the cooperation of
the National Recreation Association
and other national organizations. For
details about how to make nominations
write to NRA for a fiyer if you have not
received one.

> A BRIEF, concise brochure, to Code
for Teen-Agers, by teen-agers, has been
recently published by the Memphis and
Shelby County (Tennessee) Youth
Guidance Commission. Copies are avail-
able from the commission.

V FOR YOUR CAMP: an amusing and ef-
fective set of camp safety posters, from i
the Continental Casualty Company, 1
Summer Camp Department, 310 South
Michigan Avenue, Chicago, Illinois, are
available for the asking.

R DISPLAY KIT 0F READING AIATERIALS:
Colorful materials to promote children’s
reading on vacation have been prepared

by the Children’s Book Council, 175
Fifth Avenue, New York 10. This kit I

sells for $1.50, which includes postage.
I

b INDUSTRIAL ORGANIZATIONS ARE Now
spending an estimated one billion dol-
lars yearly for recreational programs,”
states the 9/11/59 issue Of SporISCOpe,
“These programs are growing tremen-
dously and include the family as well as
the worker.” There is plenty of room in
these programs for the professional rec-
reation leader.

) AT ITS RECENT ANNUAL MEETING at
the Hotel Biltmore, in New York City.
the National Social \Velfare Assembly.

a central planning and coordinating
body, elected Stanley C. Allyn its presi-
dent. Among other people re-eleeted
to their same posts was vicc-president
Mrs. Rollin Brown of Los Angeles.
NRA board member, and, as mentioned
previously, chairman of the President’s
National Committee for the Conference

(on Children and Youth). '
i

D A TEN-POINT DEFINITION of what
makes a good community has been is-
sued by the American Council to 1m-
prove Our Neighborhoods makes two
special references to recreation. Ac-
cording to ACTION, a good community _
must offer “easy access to places Of
work. ShOpping, and recreation,” and
“a variety of public and private facili-
ties and services for the pleasurable use
of leisure time.”

F AN ESTIMATE of new swimming pools
for 1959, as reported in a recent issue
of Sportscope, issued by the Athlctie In-
stitute, is 70,000 pools, bringing the
number of private and public pools in

the United States to 250.000—00111-

pared to less than 11,000 a decade ago. I

RECREATION

Leased FREE!

Stop wosting time recording inventory costs.
honding out balls and poying top prices for low

quolity bolls. lnstoll this ottroctive, cost-cutting
TFT Toble Tennis Boll Meter NOW!

Leosed FREE to responsible ogencies on $10.00
deposit subiect to refund. Trouble-free operotion
ossured—return mochine for FREE repoir. Attroc-
tive hord wood ond metol cobinet—7V2 x 8V2 x 15
inches high. Easy to instoll. Holds 120 bolls-—
dispenses eoch for 10¢. Choice of 3 grodes of
top quolity bolls. Use profit to mointoin and re-
place paddles. nets. etc. No risk guorontee. Send
for free folder: "Stop Wosting Their Time."

T. F. TWARDZIK 8. (0.,

|H(0RPORITED

SHENANDOAH PENNA.

 

 

        

3’ "a" s(
$ 3 i

.
(y .
gw‘,

| To State-iris
I 'SNQEHERG ’

. "4-.
Write for our n ose cotolog. I

I nut-anal.

5pm QWW
I 370 NORTH MARGUETTE. FOND DU LAC. WIS.

     
   
       

—MOVIES—

For Every Occasion
3|!

RECREATION - EDUCATION

léMM SOUND
Black & White - Color

Representing

Walt Disney - Columbia - Warner
United Artists - Poromount

Sand for 64-poge FREE CATALOG
INSTITUTIONAL CINEMA SERVICE. INC.

41 Union Square New York 3, N. Y.

’:FEBRUARY 1960

 

 

Days, Weeks, and Months

° NATIONAL LIBRARY WEEK will fall on
April 3 to 9 this year. Cooperate with
your local library; gear your program
to emphasize the place of reading, and
of books, in recreation. Reading en-
riches our leisure, forms a background
for dramatic productions, sparks cre-
ative activities and interest in the cul-
tural arts, conveys know-how and back-

ground. information, contributes to all
recreatlon act1v1t1es.

' FEBRUARY 8, 1960 marks the begin-
ning of the Boy Scouts of America
Golden Jubilee Year. This will be
marked by many national as well as 10-
cal celebrations. (The sixth edition of

the Boy Scout Handbook was published
on December 15.)

° MARCH 5 to 12 is National 4-H Club
Week, “To inform more people—espe-
cially youth and parents—about 4-H

educational aims and methods, and op-
portunities.”

° MARCH 6-12, Girl Scout Week.

° MARCH 17, St. Patrick’s Day.

' MARCH 17 is also Camp Fire Girls
Founders Day. This year it marks the
fiftieth anniversary of the founding of
this youth organization. Its Golden
Jubilee will be celebrated November 1,
1960 to March 31, 1961.

° MARCH 20 to 26 marks National
Wildlife Week and is an excellent time
to initiate good conservation programs.

° MARCH 21, 1960 has been designated
as National Teen-Agers’ Day, “to foster

better relations between teen-ager and
adult.” \Vrite to M. J. Mamakos, execu-
tive director, National Teen-Agers’ Day
Committee, 8582 Sunset Boulevard, Los
Angeles, for further information.

° AND DON’T FORGET that April is Na-
tional Hobby Month. We would like to
have reports about what you are plan-
ning in observation of this or what you
did last year. Will you write us, by re-
turn mail if possible?

° HAVE YOU STARTED PLANNING for
National Recreation Month in June?
Last year’s theme, “Find New W’orlds
Though Recreation,” will be continued
this year. Special emphasis of each
week of the month: June 1-7, Youth
Fitness; June 8-14, Family Recreation;
June 15-21, Recreation-and-the-Arts;
June 22-30, Recreation-Through-Serv-
ice. The National Recreation Month kit
will be ready in March. There will be a
poster this year.

NE‘V ALL-ADIEIIICAN

PICNIC -‘ GRILL

It’s tops in grills! Positive six-way draft
control provides faster, easier lire kin-
dling, saves fuel, guarantees tenderer,
juieier ehareoaled steaks, eliops and bar-
becues. American’s many plus-features
assure perfeet lifetime performance.
Shipped fully assembled.

 

    
    
   
  

STATIONARY P0 RTA B LE
Weight 180 lbs. Weight 205 lbs.
COM PLETE COMPLETE

PATENTS PENDING

  

Order Your All-American Grill TODAY!

AMERICAN

PLAYGROUND DEVICE C0.
ANDERSCDN, INDIANA

 

“Stotionory” rocks ‘
in single or double
foce units snap-lock
rigidly together to fit
ony space or provide

,  copocity required.

 

COAT and HAT RACKS

Style DP. 4-40.Portable Checker Rack (illustrated)
is 4 ft. 2 in. long; holds 40 coats and hats; goes
wherever needed on large. ball-bearing-swivel
casters, Comes with or without checks and snap-on
numbers, Strongly welded of square tubular. heavy
gauge and highly embossed furniture steel Smart.

in modern baked finishes. Give lifetime service -—
never sag. creak or sway. 3 ft. 4 a 5 ft. units avail-
able. as well as other emcient space saving equip-
ment for every church. school. commercial.
industrial and institutional need.

Write for Bulletin ( 82

VOGEL-PETERSON CO.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 55

RECREATION
FORTY
FATHOMS
DOWN

 

Four crew members of the USS Nautilus (SSN-571) test emergency breath-
ing apparatus in the crew’s mess compartment prior to transiting the polar
ice cap. They while away the interval playing cards, a popular pastime
anywhere, but which also meets the peculiar restrictions of sub activity.

naovcn EXPERIENCE CAINED from Operation Deep
T Freeze and extended cruises of such ships as our
weather ships, the U. S. Navy has picked up some
know-how about recreation aboard submarines designed to
stay submerged for long periods of time.
Our submarine personnel are a carefully selected group
of volunteers, proud of their dolphins. They, as a group,
were the least concerned about a “problem” existing regard-

ing their off-duty time while submerged; however, no one '

really knows what effect routine submergence for an ex-
tended time has on the human being. In order to combat
possible dulling of the senses, retarding of reaction times,
and other bad effects, a study was undertaken of recreation
at forty fathoms.

The author is not a psychologist, physiologist, or any
other ’gist, but from past experience and through conversa-
tions with oflicers and crews of several of our nuclear sub-
marines, some observations were made, which are not con-
elusive.

Let’s set the stage: there are three basic limitations that
make recreation forty fathoms down “different”: ('1) Space
for activities is critical, ( 2) excessive noise cannot be tol-
eratcd, ( 3) ventilation is nonexistent.

If there is space, it is soon occupied by another gadget,

-._.—-w—

 

—— -—— --.—- —‘-r — —— ——

 

MR. WALLER is head of the Recreation and Physical Fitness
Branch of the U. S. Department of Navy, Washington, D. C.

56

  

 

.'-.-_ . M , -
A chief petty oficer works on tran-
sistor radio he built in off-duty time
during the sixty-day underwater cruise
of the nuclear-powered USS Seawolf.

J... ...... __

The crew’s mess aboard the USS Skate
(SSN-578) is crammed but shipshape.
Here some m en off-duty settle down for
backgammon, card game, 'reading, Java.

 

gimmick, or whatever—all necessary. One of the doctors
was looking for space for his small black medical bag. Het
thought he had found the spot, but it was necessary to put
an instrument panel there. The enlisted men’s mess is in
use over sixty percent of the time for meals; the rest of the
time it is used for movies, navigator’s charts, and emer-
gency operations, writing letters, table games, and so forth. 1
Compact? The galley is so small the cooks can stand in one 1
spot and prepare meals for one hundred people.

Excessive noise cannot be tolerated. Within a good
boarding-house reach of any activity someone is asleep.
There is no day or night in a nuclear submarine, and sta-

 

tions must be manned twenty-four hours a day, seven days
a week. So somebody is always eating, sleeping, or on duty.

Keeping the air fit for human consumption is no small
problem. You just cannot “open a port or two for ventila—
tion.” So extreme care must be eXercised not to contaminate l
the atmosphere. Therefore, certain hobby crafts are ruled 1
out. Conventional submarines usually surface daily to re-
plenish batteries and air supply. Nuclear submarines are
designed to stay submerged, so please bear this in mind
when we talk about off-duty activities.

Here are some of the meat and potatoes of sub recreation
as tried out, and some of the problems arising therefrom:

0 MOTION PICTURES. Both training films and current
entertaimncnt features are furnished. Two sidelights are
that a possible one out of five turns out to be a real “stinkcr.”

RECREATION

Part I—

The Navy’s
experience with recreation
in the atomic submarine.

Edmund M. Waller

 

Does that occasional stinker (a really bad movie) have a
good psychological effect? Help let off steam? Should we
have all color pictures? This last was a significant ob-
servation, for the men seemed actually to miss color. It
led to exploring the need for lively vivid colors, not just
pastels. After sixty days of exposure to these, all believed
to be scientifically pr0per for home or shop, would we pre-
fer a shocking pink? A brilliant red? Or what? If color
should prove advantageous, could it be done with a com-
bination of geometrical and free-form splotches of color
on cardboard that could be changed from place to place?
Or should it be done with slides or a stereopticon type of
device? Or was it essential at all?

Here are some other things that needed determining: If
individuals are constantly exposed to the same colors for
weeks, is their color perception dimmed? If so, how long
does it take to readjust when exposed to natural sunlight?
We have all heard of snow blindness. Would we have a sub-
mergence blindness?

By this time you must realize how involved one simple
portion of one activity can become.

0 TABLE GAMES. One of the large game manufacturers
has agreed to work with us to perfect a game kit, with the
emphasis not on getting a bargain but on saving space.
Came manufacturers normally package games so that they
will have sales appeal, one game to a box. A variety of
.' games has been purchased and distributed. If six are found

 

EFEBRUARY 1960

 

Crew members aboard the USS Nautilus watch TV. There is no

day or night when you’re down in a nuclear submarine and no
time “out.” Stations must be manned twenty-four hours a day,
seven days a week. Someone is always eating, asleep, or on duty.

“14:35-- _‘ ’9—J‘. I

An interior communications electrician pursues
his hobby of leathercraft during his off-duty
hours aboard the USS Seawolf during her his-

toric underwater cruise lasting sixty days in 1958.

to be continually popular, we plan to place the components
of these six games in one box of the same size normally
containing one game.

0 COMBINATION MESS TABLES. A combination mess table
and shqueboard has been developed in cooperation with a
shqueboard manufacturer. A tailored shuEeboard has a
mess-table top with several games boards imprinted on the
surface, so one can eat or play chess, checkers, etcetera.
Then, off with the top and, presto, three-bank shumeboard!
One particular submarine had space for a nine-foot shulile-
board, but before it could be put on board it had to be as-
sembled, cut in half, finished, disassembeld and then put
aboard and reassembled, simply because there is no other
way Unless it is built in when the submarine is still on the
ways.

The following will give an idea of the hazards of craft
work aboard a sub:

0 WOODCARVING. Submarines are designed to remain
hidden from the enemy. Wood floats, so disposition of the
shavings could be embarrasing.

o COPPER ENAMELING. Will the fusion process necessary
generate too much heat? Will the air be contaminated? Be
sure not to use steel wool to clean the copper; metals cleaned
with steel wool leave particles in the air. Steel wool also
burns with a hot flame and can be ignited with a match.

Is this a fire hazard?
o MOSAIC TILE. Certain adhesives normally used present

57

- ‘ H .. . _  . 35 * _,,,,,...   .- _

 

 

two major problems, fire hazard and air contamination.

0 SUJ I W IRE. Not presently believed to be satisfying
enough, and again the adhesive problem.

0 PAINT BY NUMBERS. Oil paints are taboo, so water-
colors must be used. Are watercolors as effective? Are they

satisfactory ?

o LEATIIERCRAFT. Adhesives and dyes are out for the
present, but work is being done on these.
It is fundamental in all craftwork that short-tcrm pro-

Strong Constitution Neede

Samuel E. Vickers

ln coping with the manifold problems
and complexities of the modern city,
the city manager finds that he is not
on the top but in the center of this
vortex, this whirlwind of interests and
forces, many of which are conflictng
in nature. In a very real sense, he is
in the center, not only in community
affairs but also as a member of his ad-
ministrative team.

He must often depend on his asso-
ciates for advice, criticism, and healthy
opposition, if they feel the need to op-
pose an idea before a decision is made.
The manager is in a much better posi-
tion to secure this kind of help from
his staff if they see him at the center,
not on top, able and willing to give and
take.

The manager must also of course be

___I_.._ _

 

Excerpted with permission, from “A void
Stress at the Center,” in the January
1958 Public Managemcnt, MR. VICKERS
is city manager, Long Beach, California.

58

“as:

C rewrnen‘ on'thie U 55 Albacore (A 635 569) read, stud y, and
write letters to background music push-buttoned from a juke-
box. But the men claim that "there’s nothing like a dame.”

 

As the USS Nautilus passes under the Arctic ice, member.
of its crew watch one of the two movies shown daily. Botl
training films and current Hollywood releases are shown

jects be selected. All individuals interviewed wanted thei
product completed prior to returning to home base. Thi

rules out many crafts.

There are many facets to this study of possible submarin:
recreation activities and facilities, and which space lim

itations allow the highlighting of only a few. Perhaps, later

 

we may be able to go into specifics. 
Part II, regarding the results obtained from furthe
checking, will appear in an early issue of RECREATION

!'
t

This applies equally to the city snperintend
em or director of recreation who discover.

that he is at the center of things . . .

a good executive, sometimes a hard
driver, and a good leader of men. He
must have great stamina to stand up to
the strain of overwork. He must have
good sense and good judgment. He
must have probity and reliability. And
he must be willing to accept and carry
great responsibility. He must maintain
a high batting average for making the
right decisions quickly, remembering,
however, that even Babe Ruth struck
out now and then. A good sense of
humor is essential to the demands of
his job.

it is essential that he be able to build
and maintain an organization of hu-
man beings. He must be able to choose
capable assistants who will develop
well, and then he must know how to dcl-
egate authority to them. He must in-
spire his staff to generate new ideas
and procedures. He must hold down
his enthusiasm by sober judgment. He
must not be personally sensitive to criti-

cism. Furthermore, he must exercisu
foresight in anticipating the problem:
that will arise and bold imagination it
developing solutions.

Work at the center creates a situa
tion in which tension and stress are tln
normal climate. The gales of conflic
and controversy are never very far ii
the past or in the future. If thing:
sometimes seem quiet, it is often [l]!
quiet of the hurricanc’s eye.

Given this climate in which he works
the manager needs a strong constitu
tion and good health. He should have t
stable nervous system which will not l)!
unduly disturbed when he is attacked
He should be able to get along for E
long time with little sleep and still rc
tain his chcerfulness and creativity. Dis-
appointment should not drive him intc
depression. He must bounce back. He
must he philosophical enough to be
polite to people who do foolish things
He must be patient, even with fanatics

Rscnmrtm

FUN TRAVELS NORTH

What recreation activities can
mean to isolated northern stations
of the Royal Canadian Air Force.

H. Gordon McFarlane

HEN THE Mid-Canada Radar
W Line was built, recreation was

given a paramount place in the
total planning. The main stations were
equipped with recreation halis complete
with gymnasiums, shower and locker
rooms, libraries, photography dark-
rooms, woodworking rooms, and gen-
eral crafts rooms. Even small sites with
two men were not overlooked. A rec-
reation kit designed for two men was
put on these sites. These kits included
crafts materials; small games, such as
darts, checkers, and so on; outdoor
games, such as horseshoes, baseballs
and gloves; as well as a small library,
which included a cookbook. This equip-
ment was placed in a cabinet so con-
structed that it opened out into a work-
bench.

Like the song from the musical South.
Pacific the men had everything but
So the Trans-Canada Tele-
phone system decided to give the men
a spectacle and “dames.” Thus, the
Bell Variety Show for isolated RCAF
stations and the Mid-Canada Line was
born.

“dames.”

First step in organizing the show was
to place announcements on the 430 no-
tice boards of the Bell Telephone Com-
pany in Montreal, inviting employees
to auditions. From these we put a two-
hour Show together, which included a
chorus line, male and female vocalists,
a magician, and novelty acts. Over sixty
hours of rehearsal—on weekday nights
and Saturdays—were invested to make
this as professional a Show as possible.

MR. MCFAHLANE, a former recreation
supervisor for the Trans-Canada Tele—
phone system, is currently executive (li-

rector of the recently opened Dawson
Boy’s Club in Montreal.

FEBRUARY 1960

Money for costumes was raised with
the cooperation of the Telephone Pio-
neers of America (people with over
twenty-one years of service in the Bell
system). The Pioneers sold the tickets
for two performances given by the Bell
show in Montreal. They received forty
percent of the profits and the money
went towards fostering programs for
retired employees. The other sixty per-
cent was adequate to pay for the cos-
tumes.

From these performances we knew
we had a hit on our hands, and we were
now ready to approach the RCAF for
an aircraft. After talking with the rec-
reation officers at Air Defense Com-
mand, we had to prove the show was
worthwhile; the best way to do this was
by putting on a show for headquarters.
A month later we had our aircraft.

Planning for the tour was also going
on at the Mid-Canada Line stations. We
asked all sites to erect a stage at least
twenty-five feet wide, fifteen feet deep,
and three feet high. Back and side cur-
tains were a must, front curtains op-
tional. When we arrived, most sites
had erected stages of forty feet wide
and twenty-five feet deep. All stages
had front, back, and side curtains. The
sewing sessions that had gone into mak-
ing the curtains at these all-male sta-
tions is a story in itself.

A complete program of the show was
sent to each site. This enabled hi-li
clubs to make arrangements to tape re-
cord all musical numbers with each
number timed to the second. The photo
clubs not only wanted the performance
program but also a program of all ac-
tivities while the troupe was at the sta-
tion so the complete visit could be made
into movies and an album for the mess.

 

This naturally led to many other
committees being formed, such as a
program committee (each station put
out a newspaper giving the menus for

the special dinner, estimated time of
arrival and departure, and a complete
list of the girls” names, and special ac-
tivities that had been arranged). By
the time the show arrived, each man
had served on at least one committee. A
month of planning and fun went into a
twenty-four hour visit of the Bell Show.

What happened after the show left?
Naturally there was an immediate let-
down. However, in a few weeks, sta-
tions had produced their own variety
show (before the stages were disman-
tled). The hi-fi clubs had extra tape
recordings of the show made and dis-
tributed to the small isolated two-man
stations, so men on these lonely radar
stations could also share in the activi-
ties to some extent. The men are still
enjoying the photo album and movies
which are being interchanged with
other stations.

The Bell show, in the last few months,
has been doing good work close to
home. The Royal Canadian Mounted
Police were invited whenever possible
to our performances on the Line. When
we arrived back in Montreal we were
invited to do a performance for the
RCMP mess dinner.
formance was for inmates of St. Vin-
cent de Paul Penitentiary.

Many more performances for the iso-
lated RCAF stations and veterans hos-
pitals are still on the agenda, and we
sincerely hope that the peOple in charge
will make our visit more than a per-
formance. we hope they will use our
visit to get pcople to work together for

enoylnent of life through recreation. 

Our next per-

59

 

As in many countries, the YMCA
pioneered camping in Burma.
The country’s present military
government has turned its
attention to the construction of
youth center buildings.

ACCENT ON YOUT

Part I of this fascinating story of recreation in the Far East
was timed especially for Brotherhood Week, when our thoughts
turn to friends in other lands. Part II will appear in a later issue.

HE DOWNBEAT IS on youth in the Asian countries of
T Burma, Pakistan and Thailand, in the new state of
Singapore, and in the Colony of Hong Kong. Visits
to many youth clubs in these countries leave one with the
satisfaction that re-creative experience for youngsters not
only have official sanction but the accent of encouragement.
You find unsuspected opportunities on Hong Kong roof-
tops for boys and girls to make a sampan, kick a miniature
soccer ball, learn to read and write a language or play a
Cantonese musical instrument. In a Singapore village hall,
be ready to listen to a debate or the beat of a drum, strum
of a guitar, and the click of a wood block, and to see an
earnest group engaged in sewing or doll making. In a Paki-
stani village, following the reading of the Koran in a bam-
boo youth hut, youngsters may bat a shuttlecock, play chin-
lon, or execute a tumbling feat. At a Thailand rural school,
you may find boy and girl 4-H-Club members discussing
how to market fish, playing in a bamboo instrunient band,
and closing the meeting with a Buddhist ceremony and the
national anthem. Eager singers, weightlifters, and young
journalists greet you in a Burmese youth group, and you
would have trouble synchronizing your feet and a small
rattan ball in a game of tackraw.
One word of caution. In all of these countries, be ready
for the folk dance, table-tennis game, talent show, athletic
meet, instrumental combo, picnic, and inevitable bottled

Hong Kong Rooftops

Boys and girls overflow the British Crown Colony of
Hong Kong—including the Kowloon Peninsula and the New
Territories—but hundreds of them are bubbling members
of the 190 boys’ and girls’ clubs, with a variety of agencies
serving as channels for youthful eXpression. The birds and
the radio waves have plenty of interference on the rooftops
of the colony’s multistoried public housing buildings from
the ball batting and kicking, singing, reading, and food-
consuming activities of attractive youngsters. Small, one-
room shelters, constructed at either end of a flat rooftop,
300'-by-30', and a six-foot, chain-link fence are sufficient to
keep future citizens and movable equipment from going
overboard. As always, the real security of a thirty-five-
member boys’, girls’, or mixed club comes from the young
man or woman club leader. This full-time worker may be
the tutor, recreation leader, food dispenser, and caseworker
for a morning club and an afternoon or evening club com-
posed of different children aged eight to fifteen. Most mem-
bers are from the lower economic levels of a refugee com-
munity. About fifty to sixty thousand of these hungry
children are not yet in school although educational author-
ities have made progress in trying to meet the need for
schooling. '

The ingenuity of government and voluntary organizations

is demonstrated in the number and variety of premises for,
182 junior clubs serving nine thousand boy and girl meta-\l
bers. Temporary buildings in resettlement areas, social wel--"

soft drink at the canteen. These items probably constitute
an international language for the youth of the world.

 

MR. WINANS, known to his fricnds in. the recrcation ficld as
“Skip,” has been a recreation consultant in the Far East
since 1958 for the Asia Foundation, a private nonprofit
American organization with headquarters in. San Francisco.
From. 1947-58 he was California State Director of Recrca-
tion. F or the next six months he will be working in Malaya
at Kuala Lumpur as honorary recreation advisor to the
government.

60

fare centers, community buildings operated by a children’s
playground association on public playgrounds, YMCA
and YWCA properties, or even a private residence may be
the bustling hub of a youth club. With so many youngsters
to serve—and more coming all the time—several agenciesI
can have their fingers in the club pie without getting them
burned. Their clients are not particularly concerned about

RECREATION

Part |

Sterling S. Winans

J ASIA

Square dancing is popular

at the Y in Bangkok.

The Thailand government actively
sponsors the 4-H pattern.

   

who does what as long as there is something to belong to
where they can read, draw pictures, try their feet on a soc-
cer ball, blow harmonicas, and be on deck for excursions
or maybe a week at camp. Expansion of club opportunities
for the sixteen-to-twenty-one-age group has been recom-
mended by the Standing Conference on Youth Organiza-
tions.
: A partnership among youth clubs and their sponsors is
l represented by a boys’ and girls’ clubs association, to which
all clubs are affiliated. The significance of the association
is indicated by the hum of activities in a new five-story
headquarters building with some of its permanent equip-
ment provided through an Asia Foundation grant. The as-
sociation is the largest single operator of clubs——115 clubs
-—and employs seventy-five full-time leaders. It is the fastest
and one of the most efficient producer of noodles. Yes,

noodles! Flour and milk powder available to the colony A game of Checkers in Rangoon. Burma. complete With “.513-
thmugh American aid programs are converted into noodles zer. The Burmese love amusements and sports, and particu-

. . . . . , . . .l u l therei o ) Josition. to Western orrns .
and distributed to refugee famlhes through boys’ and glrls’ lady to dance 0 m g l S l I I ')

clubs.

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  

The government’s confidence in the long-term value of
youth clubs is portrayed by its annual grant of fifty-three
thousand dollars to the association and in its partial sub-
sidy of other voluntary organizations engaged in the same
effort. Assistance is also provided by the government’s so-
cial welfare department that operates twenty-two clubs.
Families of club members can and should be partners, too,
in the club movement, and so welfare officers frequently visit
homes of members so that everyone concerned understands
he program—and especially the individual youngster.

Heads, Hearts, Hands, and Health of Thai Youth

The friendly and happy youth of Thailand are not to be L a ,_ _\ 

outdone by their counterparts in fifty-live other countries A handcralt class on 0 Hang Kong rooftop. This is taught
3f the W01” 1d Where the 4'H C1111) Program is a byword “’lth not only as recreation but to lcrlp u'omen augment meager
boys and girls who live close to the land. Thailand has incomes. Many agencies. local and international, take part.

FEBRUARY 1960 61

plenty of agricultural land, with rice production account-
ing for over a half of the national income. Its rich central
plain enables it to support a heavy population of twenty-
three million people at a living level well above that of
Southeast Asian countries. At least forty-six hundred boys
and girls are enough concerned about their four H’s—head,
heart, hands, and health—to conduct their own monthly
meetings. In between times they catch up with fish, poultry,
and pigs or try to keep them out of their cherished rice
plots, mushroom patches, and vegetable gardens.

The 4-H pattern, adopted by the Thailand government,
under Premier Field Marshall Sarit Dhanarat, fits in with
the government’s community deve10pment program in rural
areas. Using a team approach, oHicials of agriculture, fish-
eries, cooperatives, health, education, and local government
join in helping a village to help itself. Although the agri-
culture department takes the lead in advising Thailand’s
one hundred and forty 4-H Clubs, representatives of other
departments may assist. Advisory service has been given
to this youth program, and in other fields, by able American
agricultural extension personnel through the U. S. Opera-
tions Mission.

Thai proudly call their country “Muang Thai” or “Land
of the Free.” In keeping with this concept, 4-H clubbers
conduct their own meeting in a formalized style, opening
with a Buddhist ceremony and closing with the national
anthem. At the opening meeting of a new club, a primary
school assembly hall would bulge with onlookers, but the
youthful officers would not be overawed even if the provin-
cial governor were in attendance.

Getting lost is not an infrequent experience for village
youth who go up to the big city for college or university
education. Even young people who have always lived in the
big city can get lost at a university. Bangkok, “The City
of the Angels,” is an interesting city and a big one. Like
other cities of the world, it has several universities with
too many students. The Bangkok Youth Cultural Service,
organized with the assistance of the Asia Foundation in
1958, has smoothed the way for some of these men and
women undergraduates. Hard work, long hours, two young
Chinese workers with mainland China experience and a
“staying in the background sense” plus a converted three-
unit residence help to make an interesting center for the
serious Thai students.

These young people like to discuss literature, write and
criticize compositions, lcarn elementary music theory, try
the guitar or accordion, and sing. The small library loans
books to avid readers and provides a place for scholars to
study, which may not be available in or near their home
quarters. A basketball can make a lot of satisfying bounces
on a hard-surfaced outdoor area, even though the court is
not Olympic in size, and the space can double for volley-
ball and folk dancing for both men and women. Friday and
Saturday night parties usually take first place over badmin-
ton and table tennis, which are accommodated indoors in
a warehouse type of building. Student applications for
membership in the Cultural Service must be approved but
members do not pay a fee; however, participants must hold
permit cards for the privilege of borrowing library books

62

or for participation in special music, dancing, or art in-
struction. Activities are scheduled between 10:00 AM and
9:00 PM five days per week.

Burma the Golden Land

The highlight of a tourist’s visit to the Golden Land of
Burma would certainly be the reflection of the sun or the
moon from Kipling’s “winking wonder,” the gold-encrusted
Shwe Dagon Pagoda. This stupa is the largest of its kind
in the world and is encircled by landscaped boulevards and
two lakes in the heart of the beautiful capital city of Ban-
goon. Here, the visitor would soon become aware that
Burmese life, culture, and economy are inextricably bound
up with the Buddhist religion. While you enjoy a dish of
rice and curry, you would cast approving glances at the
traditional costume for both men and women—a loose-fit-
ting white or colored jacket and the lungyi, which is a shirt
of silk or cotton resembling a sarong.

If you were more fortunate, you would discover other
highlights about the Burmans who love amusements and
sports. To keep up with them, you would sit up most of the
night watching pwe—a theatrical show—and singing or en-
joying Burmese music. Musical instruments bear some re-
semblance to the Java or Balinese gamelan. Although there
is some opposition to Western forms of dancing, Burmese
love to dance. There is interest in many sports other than
boxing—with the bare fists—weightlifting, swimming, and
chinlon, a game played by kicking a cane ball. For reasons
of feminine modesty, there is some reluctance' to the partici-
pation of women in sports.

To perpetuate these traditions in sport, music, art, and
drama for Burmese youth, the prcsent military government,
under General Ne Win, has given consideration to the con-
struction of youth ccnter buildings in Rangoon. The com-
missioner of police, U Khin Maung Maung, established the
first club in September 1959. He found that some of the
boys between the ages of ten to fifteen, living in the heart
of a business area, needed a club and that a two-story build-
ing, formerly used as a home for dependent children, could
be used as premises. About seventy-five boys jumped at the
chance to use the reading room, saw wood, hammer nails,
and decorate boats; lift somc weights, sheet a basket. and
wear out the table tennis nets. At the request of the com-
missioner’s advisory committee for the new club, he has
assigned two nonunifornled policemen to work full time a
club leaders. With one eye on the need of the boys, the
committee has turned to other agencies who may step in
and establish sevcral clubs.

If one of these eager boy clubbers has good fortune, 11
may sometime become one of the eight thousand men and

women sludents at the University of Rangoon. There, he ‘

will not find a boys’ club, but he will be using the student
center building now under construction with financing from
the Asia Foundation. To the boy—or the girl—the new
gymnasium, assembly hall, library, and, certainly, the food
service will be real attractions. And it will be diflicnlt for
the University Sports Council to keep him out of its seven-
teen-sport interhall and interdepartment programs which
serve over ten percent of the student p0pnlation each year.

RECREATION

  
   

 

day of the year is New Year’s

Day. But not the New Year of
the Christian calendar. It is the New
Year of the ancient Mongol calendar,
which usually falls in February. This
is the one occasion when the people ex-
change gifts and when they greet each
other by stretching out their arms
slightly and giving a small how.

This is the season of the national
holiday, the “Naadam.” In literal
translation this means “games.” In the
day of Genghis Khan the Naadam
lasted a month. It occurred in July,
traditionally a time of relaxation for the
nomad people. By July the herds were
safely in the upper valley pastures. The
shearing of wool was well behind. The
foaling and the lambing were over. It

THE BIG PERSONAL and social holi-

is a season of plenty, a good time to
relax and prepare for the campaigns of
fall and the trials of winter.

In ancient days the Naadam was de-
voted to what thc Mongols still call
“the three games of men”: horse rac-
ing, archery, and Mongolian wrestling.
By the time of the autonomous Mongol
regime of 1911-21, the Naadam had
been reduced to a week. Today it lasts
only three days.

But today, as it was seven hundred

Reprinted, with permission, from The
New York Times. MR. SALISBURY is a
special Times correspondent.

FEBRUARY 1960

RECREATION IN
OUTER MONGOLIA

Leisure-time activities
in the ancient domain
of Mongol emperors.

years ago, the Naadam is basically the
same three games of men. True, the
Communist regime has added a full
program of track and field sports.
There are parades and pageants by the
inevitable physical culture societies.
Ulan Bator has a great new stadium
with fifteen thousand seats in which
spectators may watch the Naadam, in
place of the grassy lawns between the
ceremonial tents of ancient days.

But none of the modern innovations
has materially altered the character of
the Naadam. In the week before the
festival, cavalcades of horsemen begin
to descend upon Ulan Bator from all
the ends of Outer Mongolia. They
come as families and as tribes. They
pack their yurts on wooden wheeled
carts or on camels. In the encampments
outside the city, white yurts spring up
like enormous mushrooms after a rain.

When the great holiday finally dawns,
it is not the grandiose ballet of the gym-
nasts that draws the spectators. It is
the archers, sometimes men of seventy,
sometimes boys of seventeen, whom the
crowds watch as they compete to the
keening chant of the old men. The
chant rises and falls. It rises when an
arrow topples the target of earthen pots.
It falls when the winged shaft fails short
of the mark.

The largest stadium crowd is at-
tracted by the wrestlers, who present
themselves to the audience in an arm-
flapping pirouette that is said to be
modeled on the walk of thc eagle. The
wrestling, too, is conventionalizcd on

Harrison E. Salisbury

ancient formula. If an elhow or knee
touches the ground the contestant loses.
This year’s champion was twenty-nine-
year-old Damdin, a four-time winner,
nicknamed “the Lion.” He won over
opponents bearing the titles “the Ele-
phant,” “the Eagle,” “Great Mongol,”
and “Titan.”

But the greatest competition of all is
that of the horsemen. They are not nec-
essarily men. Many are children—H-both
boys and girls. The biggest race this
year was that for boys and girls six to
fourteen years old.

Four hundred forty youngsters com-
peted, wearing the strange crusader’s
helmet of cloth that Mongol racers have
worn for centuries. Only a handful
failed to finish. This was not a sprint
race over the turf but a gallop of forty-
five kilometers ( about twenty-eight
miles) over cattle trails in the open
grass plains. There was nothing about
the scene that Genghis Khan would
have had difficulty in recognizing ex-
cept the dozen automobiles of the dip-
lomatic corps that raced alongside the
young riders. #

 

W e are the mediating nation of the
world,'we are compounded of the na-
tions of the world; we mediate their
blood, we mediate their traditions, we
mediate their sentiments, their tastes,
their passions: we are ourselves com-
pounded of these things. We are, there-
fore, able to understand all nations.—

Woonaow WILSON.

 

63

Before the recent general election in England both the
Conservative and Labour Parties issued policy statements
regarding the compelling social and economic problems
created by an era of ever-increasing leisure. The Labour
Party’s statement, issued as a fifty-two-page pamphlet en-
titled Leisure for Living,* was approved by its National
Executive Committee for consideration by the party’s An-
nual Conference. The Conservative statement, in a smaller,
twenty-three-page pamphlet, entitled The Challenge of Lei-
sure,** prepared by a nine-man committee, including four
members of Parliament, is a “contribution to discussion
and not an oficial party pronouncement.” (The report was
published by the Conservative Political Centre, which is
the party’s board of strategy.) We here give their highlights.

The Politics of
LEISURE

Conservative and Labour views on recreation
and culture in Great Britain.

 

6 6 VERYONE HAS THE right to a decent job. But work
E is not the chief end of man.

“In the past we have been preoccupied—whe-
cause we have had to be—with the struggle against unem-
ployment and insecurity. The postwar Labour Government
proved that, in a properly planned society, it is possible to
guarantee full employment; and, as automation spreads, it
will also become possible, while maintaining full employ-
ment, steadily to lessen the number of hours that most peo-
ple have to work.

“These two great advances will mean a drastic shift in
our social thinking. Once full employment is again secured,
the emphasis will increasingly be not on jobs for all but
on leisure for all—leisure and how to use it. . . .

“This does not mean that we want to be state nannies and
run everybody’s private lives for them. But the principle
that public money ought to be spent in encouraging the arts,
and in providing for many kinds of recreation, is universal-
ly accepted; indeed, its acceptance is one test of civilisation.
It is the application of the principle, and the extent to which
it is applied, that should now be worked out more coher-
ently, imaginatively, and generously. . . .

“. . . in most areas facilities for recreation are lackinn.
Where they do exist they are often inadequate and uneco-

I"Available for two shillings ($.22) from the Labour Party, Trans-
port Ilouse, Smith Square, London SW1, England.

I""‘Availahlc for ninepenee ($.11) from The Conservative Political
Centre, 32 Smith Square, London SW1, England.

64

LEISURE FOR LIVING-The Labour Party

. 1h”-

Hertfordshire County Camp was set up by government to

 

nomieally used. Many business firms, for example, have
playing fields or swimming pools which are used only at
weekends. Many schools do not use theirs in the evenings
or during the holidays. Local sports committees could help
to enlist the eo-operation of those concerned in making
these largely wasted assets available to many who would
like to use them. . . .

“It is in the preservation of the natural beauty of our
country and in its opening up for enjoyment by more and
more people that there is probably the greatest scope for
meeting leisure-time needs and, at the same time, contrib-
uting to the general well-being. In a recent survey, it was
estimated that only about half of the people of Britain take
their annual holidays away from home. This fact alone
well illustrates the need both for greatly increased facilities
for inexpensive family holidays, and for opportunities to
enjoy recreation in the open air in places easily accessible
at weekends and for day outings. . . .

“. . . we have quoted figures to show the approximate
sums needed for the purposes that we have in mind. These
sums represent a much larger national expenditure on the
arts, and on sport, than has hitherto been incurred. It is
remarkable, therefore, that the average total expenditure
that they would involve, through the Exchequer, would be
less than one penny a week per head of the pOpulation. It is
clear that so modest an amount-mthough it would, cum-
ulatively, provide all that is reasonably required—would
mean no increase, at all, in the level of taxation. . . .”

RECREATION

 

 

 

 

teach school children camping skills and new pursuits. I
They come during the summer for courses of about a week.

 

 

Fr . " '   ,

 ,' » I my . '
. . .1 "1 ' '- s .
‘5‘ to" x O i “I -
K, "a \‘i' - “sf

‘1... ‘ r ‘ ,L . .

_ ‘ ,rgjg rsér ~, 11 I
From June to September some 13,000 to 14,000 miners and

.. “nu.__h*mg‘~wm. -w'
their families visit Derby Miner’s Welfare Holiday Center
at Skegness on Britain’s east coast for an annual holiday.

\v‘i

    

 

‘6 HERE ARE Two main reasons why the use of lei-
T sure has become a question of national impor-
tance since the war.

“The first of these is the emancipation of the adolescent,
happening so suddenly that it has taken everybody by sur-
prise. Young people nowadays have more spare time, more
money and more surplus energy than they have ever had
before—and all within the space of a decade. What all too
many of them lack, however, is a corresponding sense of
purpose and of personal responsibility. . . .

“The second is the scientific revolution with its promise
of increasingly more leisure. Rising productivity and grow-
ing ‘automation’ ( in the home as well as in the factory and
oiiice) have already made for shorter working hours and
higher living standards, and this welcome process will ac-
celerate. The leisured class, it might be said, has made way
for the age of leisure.

“We expect the end of National Service ‘call-up’ and the
‘bulge’ emerging from the schools to make this a com-

9

pelling issue in the early 1960’s. . . .’

The party called for an expenditure of $19,600,000 to
$28,000,000 a year to assure a “creative use of leisure.”
Among the projects suggested were a national theater and
a national theater company, an increase in the national
grant for the Arts Council, which subsidizes artistic enter-
prises, and an expansion of facilities and services for youth.

“The youth service used to be maintained by voluntary
organisations for young people of poor circumstances or in

FEBRUARY 1960

THE CHALLENGE 0F LEISURE—Conservative Party

—. '- -I- II
“pt: I
 a

y?

x");
.1 r

 

n ..,
- ‘

Boys from a youth hostel pause to take in the view on
a hike in Yorkshire. Mountain walking is popular. The
country has set up national recreation training centers.

 

actual need. For the last twenty years, provision has been
made on a basis of partnership between both voluntary and
statutory organisations.

“Today, the concept ought to be a service catering for
children still at school as well as for the fifteen- to twenty-
one-year-olds who, as an age group, have more surplus en-
ergy, time, and spending power than almost any other sec-
tion of the community. . . .

“This change of role, from need to the creative use of
leisure, has not yet been fully understood. The public un-
awareness of this change, together with economic pressures,
accounts for the lack of support for a service. which should
be expanding rather than contracting. . . .

“Above all, leisure makes a challenge to the human
spirit. Athens, in her Golden Age, displayed a genius for
the creative use of leisure—in athletics, for example. and
the arts—which can be seen as complementary. and indeed
superior, to her genius for military and commercial ven-
tures. There have also been such periods of all-pervasive
inspiration in the history of other peoples. . . .

“This challenge to the human spirit is the key to our
proposals. Since the war, we have succeeded in recouping
a substantial part of our material resources, but our moral
resources still appear in disarray. Again, the doubling of
our standard of living will present a growing t-hallenge
to the human spirit and produce the graver consequences
should we fail to meet it. “e neglect the proper use of

leisure at our peril.”

65

T .
;I

Th,» .
O

A

 

It’s as old as the first game

and the hrst laugh—the happy,
human inclination to do a thing——

JUST FOR THE FUN OF IT

:-"' --_‘h‘

Learning the finer

man discovered that he could
kecp the kids quiet by clacking
a couple of dinosaur bones together,
the human family has searched for

I EVER SINCE SOME desperate cave-

ways to amuse itself—and been notably
successful in finding them. The ancient
Egyptians were indulgent parents who
cherished their children, and family
games resembling checkers and par-
cheesi were popular along the Nile. The
Greeks attached grcat importance to

 

Reprinted with permission, from. Aram-
co World, July 1959, published by
Arabian American Oil Company, New

York City.
66

points of basketball in Hong Kong.

     

physical developmcnt and while mother
was home teaching sistcr how to pirou-
cttc gracefully, likely as not father was
at the local gymnasium, demonstrating
a new wrestling hold to junior.

Amusements wcre even rougher in
the gamey days of medieval England,
when men and women played a mus-
cular version of blindinan’s buff. The
object was to swat the unlucky It as
hard as possible without getting caught.
If the small fry joined in, thcy had to be
prepared to dcfcnd thcmselvcs.

Today, things are a little different,
but not much. TV and automobiles not-
withstanding, childrcn and adults the

world over apparently have the same
ancestral urge to jump, to climb, to run,
to throw, to hide, and to find.

Consider the Burmese. It doesn’t
take much coaxing to get the family
embroiled in a sizzling game of chinlon.
Dad folds up and tucks in his longyis
(skirt) to make improvised but cffective
“shorts,” thcn joins the gang to form a
small circle. The chinlon ball is a woven
hollow rattan sphere about three inches
in diameter and weighing about five
ounces. It is tossed into the air and
from then on is hit with feet, knees.
shoulders, head, or any parts of the
body eXcept the hands. A player may
keep it aloft for several minutes by him-
self. then pass it on to his companions
or it may pass quickly from one to an-
other, across or around the circle. First
one to drop the ball loses and, if agreed
beforehand, pays a forfeit—helping
prepare suppcr is a favorite penalty.

The Japanesc, who prefer their play
aftcr meals, oftcn decide who will help
with thc dishcs in this novel way: whilc
thcy arc still scaled, cach is called upon
to tell a story, in one breath. It may
be a fable, an adventure story, a tall
tale. anything. First one to pause for
breath is handed the dish towcl.

in Africa, where the business of liv-
ing is intimately conncctcd with gctting
along with nature, fun is ncccssarily
practical and favorite family games em-
phasize manual dexterity. Almost as
soon as they can walk, Ethiopian boys
are introduced by their father to chity-
atya, a spear-throwing contest. The

RECREATION

boys line up, weapons in hand, while
fifty feet away Pop starts a hoop rolling
across a field. Spears whiz through the
air toward the rolling hoop, which
rarely moves far before someone’s Spear
hits it and brings it to a stop.

Occasionally, a Congo family still
has to take to a tree to get away from
some rampaging eat, so bokwele is
played early and often. The bark of a
stick is peeled in such a way that alter-
nating dark and white rings are left.
With thumb and forefinger, as if elimh-
ing up the stick, participants follow one
finger with the other, space by space,
saying as fast as their fingers move,
bokwele, bokwele, bokwele. The point
is to see how many spaces can be cov-
ered before taking a new breath. Older
children and adults play the game on a
grander scale, using a real tree, strong
arms and legs.

Just about every culture admires
physical skill. The Spaniard takes his
brood to see the weekly bullfight. Ca-
nadians are notorious hockey buffs.
German families root themselves hoarse
over a spirited soccer game. And it’s
been said that the only time an English-
man loses his lcgendary composure is

   
  
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
  
  
  
 

during a cricket match.

But for sheer physical demands on
participants, you would have to go some
to beat the spectacular Tinikling Dance
of the Philippines.

The tinikling is a bird with storklikc
legs and a long neck. The Tinikling
Dance imitates the bird’s movements as
it walks between grass stems or runs
over tree branches. The performers——
just about everybody, since the Tini-
kling Dance is to the Philippines what
the waltz used to be to Vienna—dance
between two bamboo poles, about nine
feet long, which are placed horizontally
on the ground. Two bamboo players
sit opposite each other on the ground
and strike the poles together in time to
A subtle refinement is to
raise the poles an inch or two higher
aeh time they’re struck. The longer
he tune, the higher the dancers have to

the music.

jump.

Skill is demonstrated in dancing be-
tween the bamboos and in keeping the
.. feet from being caught when the poles

1re slammed shut. Sometimes adults

TEBRUARY 1960

dance while two children are in charge
of the poles, sometimes viee-versa. It’s
not at all unusual to see an ankle-band-
aged gentleman limping to work in the
Philippines after a particularly rough
dance session. A simple explanation to
eurious friends suffices: “Tinikling.”
Rough-housing has risen to a fine art
among today’s Pitcairn Islanders, de-
scendants of the Bounty mutineers and
local Polynesians. For amusement, vil-
lage families regularly conduct a mam-
moth tug of war, males against females,
that frequently lasts from noon till sun-
down. Birth, death, and marriage are
universal reasons for a gathering of the
clan. Wakes are eommon——and unruly

J... I
Children like same simple games the world round, whether in Brooklyn or Burma.

———from Togoland to Ireland. In pre-
Communist China, every tenth year of
a person’s life was supposed to have
special significance. A family might
spend the equivalent of a thousand dol-
lars on one of these “important” birth-
day parties, inviting not only the whole
huge network of cousins and in-laws,
but neighboring families as well.

One favorite can best be translated
as “Solemnity.” The players sit on the
floor in a circle and choose one to start.
He makes some gesture, such as tickling
his neighbor on the right, under the
chin, or grimacing. Each player repeats
the gesture with the person to his right.

No one must laugh or speak; anyone
who does must drop out of the game.
Winner is the last dead pan.

Very popular, too, is The Coffee Cup
Game. Two teams, 'A and B, are each
supplied with six coffee cups. One
player on each team provides a ring.
Team A hides its ring under one of its
eups while Team B is out of the room.
Team A calls them in when ready and
Team B selects one player to guess. If
he guesses eorreetly, his team has the
privilege of hiding its ring under one
of its cups and someone from Team A
has to guess where it is. If he guesses
wrongly, he must, as a forfeit, perform
a stunt as directed by members of Team

 

A—anything from singing a song to
imitating an animal.

Although the ingenuity of every cul-
ture in devising games is staggering,
even more amazing is the number of
identical games that seem to have
developed independently in different
lands. Follow-the-leader, hide-and-
seek, and leapfrog, for example, are
played by Eskimos and Englishmen,
Fiji Islanders and Frenchmen, Zulus
and Zealanders. AnthrOpologists have
never been able to explain satisfactorily
how the same game somehow appeared
in so many places. The players them-
selves don’t care—it’s fun! #

 

Winter
Camping

A new area of program . . .

68

Stanley W. Stocker

MR. STOCKER is executive director, Metropolitan New Y or

Most of us prefer to do our winter “camping” in
comfort, venturing forth from a lodge.

This is Badger Pass Ski Lodge, Yosemite National Park.

young adults. Through the ice, they have caught

five beautiful bass, scaled and cleaned them, and,|
amidst laughter and tomfoolery, fried them to a delicate,.
golden brown. Baked potatoes, peas, fruit, and coffee have
assuaged their appetites—and so they sit quietly by the fire,
cheeks glowing, eyes bright. They have learned the art of
living in the out-of-doors in the wintertime.

However, for a large number of otherwise active young
people, our culture has erected a barrier of fear and dis.
taste for winter camping. We prefer to regulate the thermo-
stat, check for storm warnings, and hibernate. Prejudiced
by our folkways, we do not stop to count the cost of joys
unattained, conquests unmade, sights unseen; we do realizd
that winter camping can be done in many ways and at manyl
levels. I

Winter snow camping is a graduated experience, ranging
from living in well-heated cabins to the ultimate test—ex-1
periencing a night in the open, in subzero ,temperatures,‘
and discovering that such an experience is a pleasant onei
Many of us prefer to do our “camping” in a comfortable'
lodge or cabin, well protected from wind and snow. W
make expeditions to ski, to fish through the ice, to laug
with the children as they slide down the hills—and to do
a little sliding ourselves! Cabin experiences have their
place; sleeping in the out-of-doors in the middle of winte
is the end point of the experience, not the beginning.

Winter camping activities are many. It may be said.‘
that skiing is to winter camping what swimming is to sum

NESTLED BESIDE A snowbound lake are a group of five

   
 
   
  
    
   
   
   
  
  

mer camping. Many of the large mass-type games used in
the summer can be modified for winter use. Snow trackin
skating, skate sailing, darkhouse ice fishing and spearin
tobogganning and snow shoeing are only a few progra
possibilities.

A large number of resident camps in this country a
partially or completely winterized, and are often availa
for recreation department or agency use. School vacatio
offer valuable opportunities for the development of wint
camping programs. It is also true that trip programs c
certainly be continued on a year-round basis. Ovcr or
hundred youth hostels are available in the United Stat
and Canada to provide low-cost accommodations for suc
groups.

Many city recrcation departments operate day camps an
summer camping programs. In many cases, these progran
close with the first cold snap. Considering the great inter
in skiing, ice skating, and other forms of out-of-door wint

Council, American Youth Hostels, New York City.

RECREATI

  
   
 
 
   
   
 
   
   
 
    
   
  

recreation, such terminations are difiicult to justify.

Winter camping needs more detailed planning than does
summer camping. In the summer, one can take off for the
woods with minimum clothing and equipment. Not so in
winter! A little know-how will solve the problem, but it
is important for the participants to learn the basics before
heading out. (At the end of this article are listed some good
sources of information that are readily available in most
parts of the country.)

The really enthusiastic camper will accept the challenge
of winter camping. The thrill of coping with the winter
elements, relying on your own resources, will be long re-
membered. Today’s teen-agers, looking for new and differ-
ent experiences, might be introduced to winter camping’s
more rugged elements; other folk may prefer to spend the
days in the out-of-doors, sleeping and eating in a warm area.

The McCill University Outing Club has been winter
camping for over fifteen years. These eXperiences have
proven so pleasant that it is reported to be a common ex-
perience for small groups of club members to spend the
night in a sleeping bag in the snow, rather than staying in-
doors in a club shelter. The McCill Outing Club limits

their group to four or five, with an eXperienced leader.

The present trend toward year-round camping and the
prevailing enthusiasm for skiing have combined to increase
rapidly the amount of winter camping in this country. As
each of the many variations in winter camping can appeal

 

‘. Many pe0ple hesitate to venture forth into the winter
orld because of prejudice, fear, and lack of know-how.

FEBRUARY 1960

to “all sorts and conditions of people,” there is every reason
to believe in the potential growth of and interest in this
type of program. ( See also Page 82.) #1:

Program Aids

Snow-Survey Safety‘Cuide. U. S. Department of Agri-
culture, Soil Conservation Service, Agriculture Handbook

#137, U. S. Government Printing Office, Washington, D. C.
$.40.

A key reference for winter camping leaders. Easy to read, it is valu-
able for all persons interested in winter camping. A few topics cov-
ered are: preparing for travel, rules for oversnow travel, and the like.

Winter Camping, Hiking, and Sports (Cat. #6-92), Boy
Scouts of America, New Brunswick, New Jersey. $.15.

Well-illustrated booklet of reprints from Boys’ Life Magazine. It
should be read by all before they try any variations of winter camp-
ing. Contains how-to-do-it articles on skate sailing, snow-shoeing,
ski trips, and ice fishing.

The Adirondack Winter Mountaineering Manual, Winter
Activities Committee of the Adirondack Mountain Club,
Inc., Gabriels, New York. $.50.

A real leadership manual developed as the text for the Adirondack
Winter Mountaineering School. While its contents are developed
specifically for the Adirondack region, much of its wealth of prac-
tical, factual information can be modified to meet the needs of all
parts of the country.

Ski Patrol Manual (2nd ed.) , National Ski Patrol System,
Headquarters, 1130—16th Street, Denver 2, Colorado.
$1.00.

A good general coverage of ski equipment, safety, first aid, and full
information about the formation of a ski patrol.

 

 

Proper clothing and an experienced leader are impor-
tant elements in making a winter outing a happy event.

69

AMERICAN
TEEN-AGERS IN
JAPAN

 

 

Lore Gonzalez (right), 18, and Lisa Young climbers unload gear from, track
climb from, a Japanese salesgirl in the Beasley, 16, turn in ticlrets far the at the base 0/ Mount Fu They tool:
market place of town 0/ Fuji-Yoshida. bus ride to the Number One station. along suhicieut food [or three meals.

 

WU" geaf Strapped an 'm D: t it each station. the teen-age group had Silhouetted against a cloud [ariuatiom
young Chmber 8‘3.” 50’ "w ' «'rr “Fuji. sticks” stamped for a lee Japanese guide levels his camera as
horseback I0 Station 3M ’W‘ 3'. _ tea yen, as a souvenir of the trip. he tries to capture shot a] harimn.

70 Henna-mos

l

IThe young Fuchu group walks through
Ethe sacred Sengen Shrine,
headed for the Japanese bus station.

MERICAN TEENAGERS IN Japan,
A sons and daughters of air force

personnel, spend their summer
vacation mountain climbing. These
youngsters don’t scale just any old
mountain; they tackle the highest and
most famed in the country—Fuji.

At one time the most feared volcano
in Japan but today a climber’s para-
dise, Fuji recently yielded to thirty-
three novice adventurers from Fuchu
Air Station near Tokyo. The young
group reached the 12,397-foot peak in
two stages of five and two hours and
watched the sunrise come up ovcr one
of the most beautiful volcanoes in the
world, a lava-covered mountain, which
last erupted in 1707. To reach Fuji the
young climbers started their outing
from Fuchu—some eighty miles distant
-——early in thc morning in order to be-
gin their trek up the same afternoon.

The trip by bus consumed four hours
of slow driving over rough, winding
roads, which led far up into the scenic
countryside of central Japan. Packed
in with the American teen-agers was
necessary gear.

Arriving at the air-force operated
Fuji New Grand Hotel around one PM,

 

Even in the height of summer, snow is
still found atop Mount Fuji. July and
August are the best times for the climb.

FEBRUARY 1960

S/Sgt. Jerry S. Ray

Photos: TI'Sgt. O. A. “Chico” Garcia

the climbing party secured rooms for

their return trip from the mountain the '

following day, ate lunch, and made
preparations to spend the night on
Mount Fuji.

As a rule, the weather plays a big
part in scaling this ancient volcano.
Snow never disappears from its summit
—even in the height of summer. The
middle of the year, especially during
July and August, is usually the best time
to climb.

Leaving the hotel the youngsters rode
by bus to the town of Fuji-Yoshida, site
of the sacred Sengen Shrine and nearest
starting point from the Fuji New Grand.
They had a choice of six popular routes
Up the mountain—the Gotemba, Suba-
shiri, Funatsu, Shoji, Fujinomiya, and
Yoshida paths. Most foreign climbers
use the Yoshida path since uphill travel
is much easier and distance from the
hotel is only fifteen miles. This path,
like other routes up Mount Fuji, is di-
vided into ten sections, or stations, all
of unequal distances.

At each section overnight accommo-
dation in stone shelter huts is offered
for a fee of 350 yen (about one dollar).
The Fuchu group walked through the

 

Jaanese guide leads a group of teen-
agers down. a “lava slide.” Mountain

is divided into ten stations.

route

sacred Sengen Shrine grounds from the
town of Fuji-Yoshida, paid eighty-five
yen each to travel by Japanese bus to
the number one section, and at six PM
began the climb up the mountain. Total
time required to climb Mount Fuji is
from seven to nine hours.

Many climbers rent horses at the
first section for fourteen hundred yen
(about four dollars) and ride as far as
the seventh station, over nine thousand
feet up. Each section offers “Fuji
sticks” for sale which are purchased,
not as climbing aids, but as souvenirs
since they may be stamped at each level
for a fee of ten yen.

Reaching the eighth section at eleven
PM these young climbers bedded down
for the night in one of the stone huts.
Then, arising early, around four AM,
they took another two-hour climb to the
top in time for sunrise.

As “Goraiko,” Japanese word for the
honorable coming of the sunlight, set-
tled above the huge crater, the teen-
agers watched the shadows crawl across
one of the most magnificent cone-shaped

volcanos in existence. Such adventure
will be deeply imbedded in their minds

forever. #

 

Young Marl: Edwards had to go half
way back up the mountain to retrieve a
camera left behind at route station.

71

GOOD SPORTS — GOOD FRIENDS

As we observe Brotherhood Week, February
21-28, it is heartwarming to see how the ball
bounced in a Pan American basketball tour.

tage of the assumption that all
people want peace, then the
problem is for people to get together
and to leap governments—if necessary

‘61P we ARE going to take advan-

evade governments—to work out not
one method but thousands of methods
by which people can gradually learn a
little bit more of each other.” This is
the challenge President Eisenhower has
Hung at.the American people. This is
the challenge the members of the Peo-
ple-to-People Sports Committee, the
National Recreation Association, and
various municipal recreation depart-
ments accepted when they played hosts
to an amateur basketball team from
Ecuador for thirty days.

It all began when the U. S. ambassa-
dor to Ecuador, cognizant of the fact
that when good sportsmen get together
the resulting friendship is usually gen-
uine, suggested that the People-to-Peo-
ple Sports Committee invite an all-star
team from Ecuadorian universities to
visit the United States and play a series
of games here. The committee found
itself financially able to comply with
the ambassador’s wishes, and the invi-
tation was extended, accepted, and the
programing wheels put into gear.

Seven recreation departments were
chosen, and the st0ps on the tour be-
came Jacksonville, Florida; Washing-
ton, D. C.; Livingston, New Jersey;
Worcester, Massachusetts; Niagara
Falls, New York; Cincinnati, Ohio; and
Baton Rouge, Louisiana. As was to be
expected, programing varied from com-
munity to comnlunitx. but in each case

-—————_.._ ___

MR. MOOR is execute-v director of
the People-to-People Sport. Committee.

72

the sixteen visitors were greeted offi-
cially, visited colleges and universities,
attended a basketball clinic, and played
one or two games, winning their share.
Knowing little about the calibre of
game played by the visitors, it was sur-
prising how closely contested most of
the games were.

All departments were excellent hosts,
but because of subsequent develop-
ments in the suburban community of
Livingston, it is significant to give the
details of the program developed there.
The Lions, Kiwanis, Rotary, and wom-
en’s clubs cosponsored the visit. The
group was housed in private homes. On
the evening of their arrival they were
feted at a banquet and officially grected.
Since Nathan Mallison of Jacksonville
had passed the word along to the other
departments that the group was quite
lackadaisical about keeping appoint-
ments, each of the visitors was presented
with a traveling alarm clock, and the
leader with an embossed scrapbook.

The following day was reserved for
sightseeing in New York City, with the
group traveling to the city in a char-
tered bus. It began with a visit to
the Empire State Building observation
tower and ended with supper in an
Automat. In between was lunch at the
Yale Club, movies of the 1956 Olympic
Games, a tour of the United Nations,
the Radio City Music Hall, a subway
ride, and, of course, shopping. The
next day’s program included attending
a high-school assembly, some ice skat-
ing, a visit to a local university, and
spectating at a local high-school basket-
ball game.

Playing an overtime game with an

 

Harold F. Moor

all-star team from the senior recreation I
league and watching a college game
were chief items on the following day’s!
agenda. Mass and a special breakfast
at a local church concluded the team’s
program in Livingston, but not its con-
tact with friends made there. For ex-
ample, on the day the team was schcd-l
uled to return to its native land, a group i
of Livingston friends arranged to get
in touch with the team in'Miami, so as
to bid them bon voyage; letters have I
flown back and forth freely ever since.l
Other interesting sidelights include'
the reprinting, in Ecuador, of a sports'l
cartoon which appeared in a Worcester
paper, depicting a local basketball play-
er in uniform telling an Ecuadorian!
outfitter in a fur coat, “It’s just the'
weather that’s cold, not the pcoplc.".
Another souvenir from Worcester was ,
a statement in an editorial appearing in 1
a local college paper: “Without a doubt!
these fine athletes accomplished nlore1
for internatiOnal relations than a whole
regiment of professional ambassadors."
The visit of the Ecuadorians took
place in January 1959 and, except for1

 

The Pcople-to-People Sports

Committee is a membership cor-
poration dedicated to the promo-
tion of international sports ex-
changes on the premise that when
good sportsmen gct together mu-

tual understanding and friendship I

are broadcncd. lts chairman is

Edward P. F. Eagan of Olympic
fame.
write the connnittee at 20 Ex-

change Place, New York 5.

For further information

RECREATION

Two of the visitors from Ecuador join in a song
fest at the home of one of the families

in Livingston, New Jersey. Letters have
back and forth freely ever since.

the exchanges of letters that followed
between the visitors and new American
friends, might well have been the be-
ginning and end of this international
sports exchange. However, early in
June, the Sports Committee received an
invitation from the president of the Di-
rectory of the University Sports League
in Quito for an American basketball
team to participate in a tourney to he
held at Central University in July. Any
of the teams the Ecuadorians played
while on their tour would be acceptable,
but particularly the team from Livings-
ton. All expenses would he paid from
Miami on.

Robert Sisco, superintendent of roc-

flown

reation and parks in Livingston, imme-
diately replied, “Sure, our boys will be
glad to go, and we’ll raise the money
for new uniforms and transportation to
Miami somehow.” This information
was relayed in a formal invitation to
Bob, reading in part: “We hope that
this invitation will he accepted and that
you understand that by it we are at-
tempting to show our appreciation to
the people of Livingston and to all the
American families there for the recep-
tion given our team during its visit to
the United States.”

The team departed on schedule, re-
turning ten days later with many fond
memories and additional friends, not

 

only in Ecuador, but in Panama and
Peru, which also had representatives in
the tournament. Handicapped by the
high altitude and unaccustomed food
as well as rules, officiating, and even
court markings which were new to them,
they managed to win only one of five
games played, but that made no differ-
ence. As one of the boys explained:
“Time means nothing in Quito. The
people were always willing to stay and
talk or do us a favor. They were ex-
tremely friendly. Before every game we
were besieged by autograph seekers. Al-
though we didn’t come out ahead in the
tournament, we were way out front as

far as friendship and good will go.” #1:

 

Have You Tried . . .

A HAPPINESS FUND?

Many individuals and organizations
are willing to render financial support
to recreation projects for the less fortu-
nate if they are assured their donations
will bring a maximum of happiness.
The Montana State Training School at
Boulder is an institution for the men-
tally retarded of all chronological and
mental ages and, like many others, must
rely upon donated funds to enrich its
recreation program.

A good example of wise use of do-
nated dollars is the school’s recently
completed merry-go-round which, if
purchased, would have cost twenty-five
thousand dollars. But with dedicated
personnel and access to a well-equipped
machine shop, the cost was approxi-

FEBRUARY 1960

mately three thousand. This device,
with a capacity for fifty, has two areas
specially designed for wheelchairs, is
equipped with safety belts and a simu-
lated pipe organ, contains speakers that
broadcast traditional carousel music.
Since this type of Wild-West horseman-
ship proves exciting, adequate toilet fa-
cilities have been erected on the site.
Nearby, a railroad operates on a quar-
ter-mile course.

The horses for the merry-go-round
were cast in the school shop from three
thousand pounds of aluminum donated
by the Anaconda Company. They were
cast in sections, had to he electrowelded
together, were then painted by the boys.
This, in itself, was a high recreation

venture. This device brings more hap-
piness to more boys and girls than any-
thing else we have.

We were fortunate in getting the pure
aluminum donation; but prior to that,
aluminum scrap—pots, pans, and so on
-—were collected and melted down. The
furnace was fire brick piled on the shop
floor; the heat, a kerosene weed burner
which produced the necessary twelve
hundred degrees needed to melt alumi-
num.

In the past few years, over twenty-six
thousand dollars have been collected
and expended solely for recreation pur-
poses by various methods. These meth-
ods are a story in themselves, and range
from the wishing well, which greets the
visitor, to an increasing number of me-
morial donations.—Arthur E. Westwell,
Superintendent, Montana State Train-

ing School, Boulder.

73

'  l

 
  

Floodlighting can be planned for areas encompassing a
single activity or for multiple-use using one installation.

Wallace W. Weld

HE MOST IMPORTANT feature of lloodlighting is in
T the extended use of area and equipment it permits.

In this way a land area enjoys a greater usage and
thus becomes more worthwhile. In some areas, because of
high daytime temperatures, eventing play is desirable and
thus floodlights are essential.

Floodlighting a reercation area is relatively quite sim-
ple. Single areas may be laid out or overall plans can be
made to encompass several activities. It is good practice
to include multiple-use areas in a lighting system; in this
way, several different activities may be taken care of by
one installation. If a park district or recreation department
is considering illuminating a softball field, it is possible to
light such other activities as Little League, Pony League,
baseball, or football. Sports covered will largely be deter-
mined by available area. Study the situation and allow for
safety zoncs outside of the play area, so facilities will not
create a hazard. Pole equipment on which the floodlights
are mounted is usually placed at the edge of the safety
zones and thus will not create a hazard to the players. In
ball diamonds of various sizes it has been found that a safe
margin, outside baselines, of one-third the width of the dia-
mond, is sufficient to enable the players to field foul balls.
(Some authorities rceommend a greater distance—Ed)
If a softball diamond with a sixty-foot baseline is being
lighted, then the safety zone outside of the diamond should
be at least twenty feet f see Figure l, Page 76). In base.-
ball, where the baselines are ninety feet, a thirty-foot safety
zone is necessary.

The llluminating Engineering Society has determined
the amount of light required for all sports areas. In deter-
mining these values they have considered the active usage
of the area. Where play is quite intensive and there is
large attendance, higher intcnsitics will be required than

v—'---‘w -——-r-.-....-__

 

‘

MR. WELD is clue] application engineer for the Revere Elec-
tric Manufacturing Company, Chicago, and chairman, l l-
laminating Engineering Society Sports Lighting Committee.
This article was specially prepared for RECREATION Magazine.

74

FLOODLIGHTIN
OUTDOOR
RECREATION
AREAS

 

In which basic techniques are
discussed and pointed up by
photographs and diagrams.

for an area used for neighborhood play. In softball, stand-
ards have been set up for four elasscs of play, ranging from
professional and championship, down through semiprofes-
sional, industrial, and recreation play. The latter, of course,
requiring the lowest values. The accompanying table shows

10° to 10.. than 18°

18° to loan thin
29"

29° to loss than
36°

 

Leta

Inn-rt
Class 0

 

Itecnm nos

8 -POLE LAYOUT

  
       

CLASS
PRACTICE - FOOTCANDLES
MAINTAINED IN SERVICE
Professional
Championship n
5...- H
Professional :
I
Industrial 0 6
League II
200 5 7
6"POLE LAYOUT

m

1+

 

POLLS: 6 for Recreational, 8 for other classes.

FLOODLIGHTS ALTERNATE INSTALLATIONS

I." 12

    

MINIMUM MOUNTING
HEIGHT TO BOTTOM
FLOODLIGHT CROSSARH

U1

Recrea
LAMPS: lSOO—watt clear general lighting service operated at. 10% over rated voltage.

TABLE I

intensities requircd for various classes in regard to the
outfield dimensions, along with thc types of floodlights,
quantitics, lamp size, and minimum mounting heights.

The layout in Figurc 1 shows an eight-pole setup. This
arrangement is used for thc threentop classes of softball,
whereas a six-pole layout may be uscd for thc recreation
classification. Tllc eight-pole layout provides the best pos-
sible locations for the floodlights specified.

The six-pole layout for rccreation softball is a compro-
misc. It is undcrstandable that illumination from four
points will he of a better quality than that from only for
two banks of floodlights. This is thc only class of ball in
which the Illuminating Engineering Socicty recommends
the use of two outfield polcs. For other types of play, such
as Little League, Pony League, and so on, four poles are
definitely specificd.

The socicty has studied the situation carefully in recom-
mending footcandles for championship or professional play,
where there is unusually large attendance. Since spcctators
may be at considerable distance from the playing area, it
is necessary to provide sufficient illumination so that they
may follow the play. In professional play the action is a
great deal faster than in other classes. For that reason
i higher intensities are required than ordinarily. From these
factors it was determined that fifty footcandles would be
required on the infield and thirty footcandles on the out-
field. It was felt in regard to the recreation class, that the
game could be carried on with only ten footcandles on the
infield and seven and a half footcandles on the outfield.
These values are the lowest in which a neighborhood game
may be played in safety. Lower values would increase the
hazards by reducing visibility.

In Tablc 1 the quantity of floodlights required at each
location is given for the various classes along with the type
of floodlights. In Tables 2 and 2A the characteristics of
these floodlights are given, including the beam spread of
the various types and the minimum beam efficiency of the
three classes. For recreation softball a Type 5 or 6 Hood-

FEBRUARY 1960

light is most generally used, as the poles are located near
the playing area. These are wide-beam units. As only a
few floodlights will be required, a wide-beam type is neces-
sary to cover the field and to produce good overlapping pat-
terns. In some cases, floodlights may have to be mounted
at a greater distance from the field. Then a narrower beam
spread, Type 3 or 4, will produce the coverage required.

The class numbers of floodlights provide quick reference
as to the general construction of the floodlights. Class GP
refers to an enclosed floodlight with an aluminum reflector.
Class 0 is an opcn porcclain-enameled reflcctor and Class
OI is, again, an open porcelain-enameled reflector with alu-
minum insert. It is usually good practice to use a glass cover
for the aluminum unit, as it protects the refiector surface
as well as keeping it clean.

An aluminum unit usually provides better light control.
Fewer floodlights will be required, reducing the kilowatts
necessary to illuminate the field. The 1500-watt PS-52 clear
lamp is thc most economical lamp size as it provides the
best light output at the most economical cost.

For recreation softball areas (Table I) , there are specified
twenty-four Type-5, Class-GP floodlights: three at the two
“A” locations, four at the two “B” locations, and five at the
two “C” locations. If a Type-6, Class-O floodlight is used,
then forty floodlights are necessary to provide the same in-
tensity. This means the monthly charge for electricity will
be almost double. The economics of the situation will have
to be studied to decide which floodlight to install, as the
open porcelain unit is usually less expensive than are en-
closed aluminum floodlights. However, the difference in
cost undoubtedly will be counterbalanced by the saving in
energy consumed.

In the next higher classification, known as industrial
league, there are three different outfield dimensions. The
240-foot outfield is the one most generally used. This out-
field will take care of Little League as well as softball and
is almost large enough for Pony League. In this manner,
three different classes of sports may be taken care of on the

75

RECOMMENDED B'POLE LAYOUT FOR SOFTBALL

Cl

l4'

200 C2

C3

20"

C4

 

'BASEBALL VIEWIN G DIRECTION 5
Cl

 

82 Q SPECTATORS

"" PLAYERS

\‘ "“' CRITICAL VIEWING
DIRECTIONS

 

 

Iso FT
,. ,. , ___.,_ _I
I 75 FT.
L I40 FT.
To MAINTAIN THE SAME BEAM PATTERN WITH "BE 3
VARYING DISTANCES FROM THE AREA TO es 30" i
LIGHTEO THE BEAM SPREAO MUST BE REOUCEO. TYPE 2
20"

MOUNTING HEIGHT-AS RECOMMENDED BY I. E 5 FOR FOOTBALL
no 3

76

same area. Industrial league requires sixty Type-5, Group-
GP units: six at the two “A” locations, ten at the two “B”
locations and seven at each of the four “C” locations, to
produce twenty footcandles on the infield and fifteen foot-
candles on the outfield. In all cases the lamps specified are
1500-watt. To produce the intensities specified, the units
have to be used at a ten percent over voltage condition.
Used in this manner, the light output of the lamps is in-
creased thirty-five percent with only a sixteen percent in»
crease in wattage. However, the expected lamp life is only
three hundred hours, but this normally provides a full sea-
son’s use.

In the two last columns of Table 1 the minimum mount-
ing heights are given for each pole location. These mount-
ing heights are based on producing the highest possible
illumination on the field and keeping glare to a minimum.
Where the poles have to be set back at a greater distance
from the field then the mounting height has to be increased.
Although we have covered only ball areas, the same informa-
tion may be secured for other areas from Recommended
Sports Lighting Practice, published by the Illuminating En-
gineering Society. Practically all sports areas are included.

After the areas and sports along with the floodlights have 1
been determined, it is advisable to get in touch with your
local utility company as it undoubtedly has 1nen capable to I
give further advice. It may call in a local contractor or,‘
architect or may contact a floodlight manufacturer. Manu-
facturers can provide additional information and give exact I
quantities required, along with mounting heights. They can
also provide a positioning chart so floodlights may be prop- '
erly set and the field have the best possible illumination.
Such an installation will provide many happy hours for the
people who use your recreation area. #

 

NEW LEVELS

Growing leisure is accompanied both by more time for
new pursuits and the awakening of new yearnings and in-
terests in the minds of people. Their inherently social im-
pulses 1nove them to desire to fill much of this new vacuum ‘
with fruitful human associations. They search for con-
structive and satisfying relationships with others that pro-
vide warmth, security, and stimulation. Thcy aspirc to
associations which can illuminate new horizons, cultivate

   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 

ncw understandings, and pave the way for new avenucs of
constructive activity.

Recreation programs have an incomparablc opportunity
in this situation. Naturally suited to people’s leisure bc-
cause they are informal and voluntary, lhcy can mcct pco-
ple’s need for both association and substance. But to do so
those concerned with the recreation ficld must preparc the
ground better. The importance of qualified profcssional
leadership must be re-emphasized and more and bctter rec-
reation workers secured. The vital place of the voluntccr
leader must be reasserted. Program approaches must be
broadened and enriched creatively. Above all, a new lcvcl
of public understanding and support must be aehicvcd.——
PAUL OPPERMAN, executive director, Northeastern, Illinois
Metropolitan Area Planning Commission, Chicago.

 

RECREATIOh

STATE

AND

LOCAL
DEVELOPMENTS

Elvira Delany

 

ARIZONA. The U. S. Department of the Interior revoked
an order which would have opened up a portion of Tucson
Mountain Park to mining as of February 15, 1960. The
33,000-acre park, administered by Pima County, includes
approximately 26,500 acres of federal land and is presently
closed to mining. Assistant Secretary of the Interior Roger
Ernst announced the revocation after reviewing the tran-
script of a public hearing held in Tucson last October. Mr.
Ernst declares, “The hearing record shows . . . recreation
. . . to be the highest and most important use.”

COLORADO. The North Jefco Recreation District suc-
ceeded in passing a $300,000 bond issue for future parks
and recreation development. The Denver City Council
agreed to sell the Denver County Poor Farm to Adams
County for an eighteen-hole golf course and family park.

ILLINOIS. The board of trustees of the Pleasure Drive-
way and Park District of Springfield has approved plans and
specifications for a cast bell carillon to be installed in Wash-
ington Park’s Thomas Rees Memorial Carillon. The caril-
lon, of concrete and masonry construction, will include from
seventy-six to eighty bells. Funds for the project are a be-
quest left the park board for this purpose by Thomas Rees,
a former editor of the Illinois State Register.

A functional exchange between the city of Chicago and
the Chicago Park District resulted in the latter’s taking over
almost all city parks, beaches, and other recreation areas,
along with 283 employees, mostly recreation workers and
laborers. Land acquisition in this transaction, totals 425
acres, and facilities affected include fourteen public bath-
houses and six swimming pools (three of which are under
construction). The city, for its part, took over the park
district police force of 1948, as well as 97 school-crossing
guards and 116 boulevard workers. The city also acquired

jurisdiction over more than two hundred miles of park dis-
' trict boulevards.

The Memorial Park District (Cook County) passed a
$552,000 bond issue by a 3-to-1 vote. Plans call for pur-
chase and development of a new fifteen-acre park site and
improvement to present parks and facilities, according to
Alan B. Domer, superintendent of parks and recreation.
The Joliet Park District ( Will County) has received ap-
proval of a $700,000 bond issue for its Inwood Recreation
Center (ice-skating rink, swimming pool, youth center) and

FEBRUARY 1960

renovation of East Side Playgrounds (including walk-to
swimming pools.) Highland Park passed a referendum to
issue $195,000 in general obligation bonds for park im-
provements; of this, $125,000 will be spent on a swimming
pool and $70,000 for beach and park improvement and land
acquisition. The Highland Park Lions Club has pledged an
additional $30,000 for the pool. The Peoria Park District

is constructing a fifty-acre marina and playground on the

Illinois River with a $300,000 allocation.

MINNESOTA. A new village recreation building will go
up in Hoyt Lakes using lumber from the old Mesaba build-
ing now being torn down. In St. Louis Park the city coun-
cil and Westwiood Hills Golf Course reached an agreemenl
whereby the city will pay $215,298 for part of the course for
use as a city park. The village of Aitkin has been given a
tract along the Mississippi River to be used as a park in the
memory of Gustav Berglund. In Deephaven, the village
council has purchased approximately ten acres on Corsen’s
Bay for $15,500. This adjoins village-owned property and
will provide a twenty-live-acre park and recreation area.
Garden City (pop. 300) recently dedicated its $250,000
Wellcome Memorial, a combination recreation center, li-
brary, and civic center. The village received a $400,000 be-
quest from a local boy who went out into the world to become
an English lord and head of a vast British pharmaceutical
concern. Sir Henry Wellcome was born in a log cabin in Al-
mond, Wisconsin, but spent his boyhood in Garden City
where he met Dr. William W. Mayo, father of the famous
Mayo Brothers, who encouraged him to become a pharma-

cist. The remaining $150,000 was turned over for an en-
dowment fund.

OREGON. The Oregon Fish Commission and the Weyer-

haeuser Timber Company are cooperating to build an ex-
perimental natural fish farm on the east fork of the Milli-
coma River in Coos County to supplement and establish
fish runs in coastal streams. A ten-acre pond, holding five
hundred thousand salmon fingerlings, is intended to lower
costs of raising fish in hatcheries by placing the fingerlings in
impounded water with a natural food supply. Weyerhaeuser
installed culverts and other modifications at a cost of $5,000
and is giving up an acre of tree-growing land. In addition,
the company voluntarily spent approximately $8,000 to
modify the new channel bed as a fisheries protection mea-
sure. (For further information about W eyerlzaeuser’s rec-
reation policy see “Public Lands on Private Property,”
RECREATION, November 1956, Page 418.) Similar coopera-
tion between industry and government is increasing through-
out the country.

The Lane County Parks and Recreation Commission has
a new $100,000 budget. The past year saw the jamming of
all facilities beyond capacity, despite the expansion of three
picnic areas, the addition of a twenty-two-unit campground
on the coast, and improved boat launching and moorage fa-
cilities. The new budget will allow such improvements as
a watering system, twenty-four more campsites in three
parks, seventeen picnic sites, a beach access, a wayside park,
and a completely new facility on Fernridge Reservoir, the
second most popular boating area in the state.

77

AIRHOUSES

A frank discussion of the advantages

and the disadvantages of new,
air-supported structures.

NLESS IT BE a haunted house,
U nothing looks as empty as a de-

serted playfield or a dry swim-
ming pool. And nothing is quite so
wasteful as the many millions of play
hours lost on recreation facilities every
year because of weather. Until repent-

ly, such lost rccreation has had to be
accepted as inevitable in all but the

Don Shingler

erage about a dollar per square foot of
ground space covered. This is much less
than the cost of a permanent building.

Translucency. Fabric used admits so
much light that no other daytime il-
lumination is needed.

High ceiling height. Since structures
must be spherical in shape, the height
of a circular airhouse is normally equal

 

most southern parts of the country.
Now, however, air-supported structures,
known as airhouses, reclaim this lost
potential for many different types of
outdoor recreation activities.

These structures are made of heavy-
duty fabrics supported solely by gentle
air pressure blown into them by fan.
Major advantages of such an installa-
tion are:

Year-round use of costly installations
such as swimming pools. In many parts
of the country these can be used four
or at most five months of the year. The
airhouses are equally well suited to
weatherproof such activities as tennis,
badminton, volleyball, and others.

Extremely low cost of installation.
0n larger installations, the cost will av-

 

MR. SIIINGLER is industrial manager of
the Seattle Tent and Awning Company,
Seattle, Washington, manufacturers of

A] R :SE A L airhouses.
78

to half its diameter. A 65-foot diame-

tcr house has a ceiling 32%-feet high.
This gives all the height needed for any
activity.

Quick and easy erection and removal.
When weather permits, it is best to use
these facilitics with no covering what-
ever. \Vhen a permanent building is
erected, the facilities become indoor
recreation from that time on. Not so
with an airhouse—your swimming pool
becomes an open-air pool again in
April, May, or June. Air-supported
structures can also cover an outdoor
ice-skating arena, thus greatly reducing
the cost of such an installation, while
giving it the advantages of an indoor
rink.

Use of airhouses over swimming
pools has increased grcatly in the last
year or two in the Pacific Northwest.
W'idest use so far is for home swimming
pools, but there have been several pub-
lic installations as well. A typical ex-
ample, used in a commcrcial installa-

tion, is 371/! by 90' with 20-foot “bub-
ble” at one end. The bubble covers an
offset section at the shallow end, used
for instruction of youngest children.

Fabric used here is twelve-ounce
vinyl-coated nylon. Colors are white
with blue-and-white end stripes. Air
pressure is supplied by a 2,000 CFM
blower. The house is secured to the
concrete decking by metal ring ballast.
At one side, the airhouse is secured to
the small permanent building that is
used for office, lobby, and locker room.
Access is provided from the inside of
this house to the airhouse. Total cost
of this installation was less than five
thousand dollars.

Despite all these obvious advantages,
it must be recognized that airhouses
are still in an early stage of develop-
ment. For instance, we do not yet know
just how long certain materials may
last. The vinyl-coated nylon, which we

This overall view of a commer-

cial pool covered with an
airhouse was taken from a bluff
overlooking the pool.

consider the best, should last a very
minimum of five years, and may even
last ten years or longer. Much depends
on usage and care taken by tho owner.
Clearly, it cannot last as long as a well-
constructed permanent building.

In considering material used in your
airhouse, certain points should be kept
firmly in mind. Some minor advan-
tages may bring major disadvantages.
For instance, just how important is it
that the material be transparent? This
is hardly a major advantage, since par-
ticipants in any recreation activity will
be concentrating on that activity, not
on tllc wintry scene outside.

In a search for bctter materials, we
have thoroughly tcslcd transparent ones
and find thcy are lacking in certain
strcnglll requirements. Material used
in an airhouse should have great impact
strength and tear strength as well. It
may have great impact strength, as
some transparent materials have, yet
tear easily once a gash has been made.

Rscnm'nos

Interior of an airhouse of vinyl-
coated nylon. Air-supported

. structures can cover a variety of
outdoor recreation areas.

A good grade of vinyl-coated nylon, on
the other hand, has both impact
strength and tear strength. A small hole
or cut will not enlarge itself and can be
easily repaired. A temporary patch can
be easily installed during use, to be re-
placed by a permanent repair when the
airhouse is put away for storage in the
summer.

It is important that the material be
translucent so it can be used in daytime
and provide shadowless daytime illumi-
nation. Light will not filter through in
l adequate intensity, however, if the
house is not cleaned thoroughly at least
once a year. This job is the responsi-
bility of the user, since the airhouse can
only be cleaned properly when it is in-
flated. A good detergent, a long-han-
dled brush, and a hose are the indicated
tools for this. The must time to do it is
shortly before the house is to be deflated
and stored for the summer.

A problem you will be sure to en-
counter with an airhouse over a heated
pool is moisture condensation. If no
heat whatever is mixed with the cold air
being blown into the house, a dense fog
of condensation will form inside the
bubble. In the pool installation men-
tioned above, for instance, the fog was

 

so dense that it was impossible to see
from one end of the pool to the other.
Unless your swimmers like steam baths,
you will not want this condition.

It is easy to correct by installing a
space heater or convector to heat the
air blown into the airhouse. The air
is still humid, but that is inevitable in
any indoor pool installation. Water
temperature is kept at eighty-five de-
grees. With the heating unit, air tem-
perature is about seventy-five degrees.
This additional heat actually does not
cost much extra money. Having heated
air above the water greatly reduces heat
loss from the pool.

In planning dimensions of your air-
house, you should also make sure there
is adequate space around the sides. For
a swimming pool installation, a width
of seven to eight feet is the very mini-
mum and even more is desirable.

Properly constructed airhouses can
withstand heavy loads of snow. The
heat, of course, will also melt the snow
quite rapidly. Method of anchoring
the airhouse is irnportant, especially if
there are winds of high velocity in your
area. Sand or watcr ballast used in the
first air structures was not satisfactory,
for once the ballast starts to shift, the

S oon the spreading metropolitan areas will engulf ninety per-
cent of our population. This is not in itself an evil. I believe that
open and accessible cities can offer a variety of goods, serv-
ices, and facilities that no suburban centers—no matter how
numerous and well—stocked—can match.

The growth of the cities will not be an evil if we make them

' once again a pleasant place to stroll, eat, shop, sightsee, enjoy
cultural activities, and live. Only then will our leisure time be

worth living. Otherwise, we will spend our precious, hard-
earned leisure within our own four walls, cut off from society
by the foes we have created: murderous traffic, smOg, disorder,
blight, and ugliness. We will be trapped in our suburban or
city homes, all dressed up with no place to go.—Victor Gruen.
city planner and architect, in Life. December 28, 1959.

 

TEBRUARY 1960

house is due for an early collapse. Lift-
ing power of an airhouse is so great
that it is almost impossible to anchor
properly by this method.

Greater security is afforded by a
method that anchors the base into the
ground or concrete apron on which the
house is erected. Airhouses anchored
properly in this manner have withstood
winds up to gale force without budging.
For anchoring to the ground, embed
spear points three to four feet deep.

Any kind of structure, of course, is
susceptible to vandalism. Airhouses are
no exception. In such event, the dam-
age can normally be repaired by stitch-
room procedures and the house be re-
erected in only a few hours. In one
case, a large (almost three-foot-long)
hole was torn accidentally in an air-
house at Larson Air Force Base. The
tear was repaired by hand sewing with-
out interrupting usage. An airhouse,
like any valuable piece of property,
could become damaged either accident-
ally or intentionally. Like other prop-
erty, airhouses are insurable by many
companies. And in any case, the temp-
tation to vandalism seems to be strong-
cst in the case of old, vacant houses
rather than with new, well-used build-
ings.

For an average pool, the job takes a
full day’s work for four to five men for
either operation. When the fan is cut
ofi, the house will deflate in about thirty
minutes. \Vhen the fan is turned on, it

will inflate to normal size in about half
that time.

The National Institute of Govern-
mental Purchasing reports that Minne-
apolis will store school supplies and
equipment in an 9,000-foot air struc-
ture. This will be the first “blow-up”
building in the city. 1,":

79

SCHOOLvCITY

COOPERATION IN

RECREATION

recreation areas and facilities showed that, although

practically all of the twenty-two cities studied indi-
oated good relationships between school and recreation au-
thorities, only ten reported formal agreements covering all
or a major portion of those relationships. A surprising
number relied on informal machinery, including verbal
agreements, to bring about and continue the established
relationships.

This study of school-city cooperation in the acquisition,
planning, development, and maintenance of recreation areas
and facilities was undertaken by the National Recreation
Association’s National Advisory Committee on Recreation
Administration. Committee members at the time of the study
included chairman Jay M. Ver Lee, superintendent of rec-
reation, Oakland, California; Milo Christiansen, superin-
tendent of recreation, Washington, D. C.; Charles Deell,
superintendent of parks, Minneapolis (now retired); Ben
Evans, director of recreation, Seattle, Washington; William
Keeling, superintendent of recreation, Dallas; Vernon
Ridgewell, superintendent of recreation, Norfolk, Virginia;
Walter Scott, director of municipal and school recreation,
Long Beach, California; and Beverly Sheffield, director of
recreation, Austin, Texas, and new chairman of the National
Recreation Association’s National Advisory Committee on
Recreation Administration.

The cities selected ranged from small communities to
some of the largest cities in the country. Twenty of the
twenty-two cities studied had developed above average pol-
icies for joint use of city and school facilities. In fifteen
of the selected cities, recreation is administered under agen-
cies that combine park and recreation functions; seven
have separate recreation departments. Ten cities have pol-
icy-making boards; ten, advisory boards; two have no
boards. In nine of the selected cities school-board members
or school-staff members serve on the recreation park board,
which, in six of the nine connnunities, is an advisory board.

One of the outstanding detailed agreements is found in
San Diego, California, between the unified school district
and the city park and recreation department. It describes
how sites are selected, details what facilities will be included
in each instance, delineates the use of recreation facilities
by the school agency, details responsibility for supervision
of facilities, and sets forth the relationship between the
school administrators and recreation staff at particular sites.

! STUDY OF school-city cooperation in the joint use of

80

 

Maintenance responsibilities of both parties are spelled out,
with a detailed list of the equipment and basic improve-
ments for various types of areas.

Austin, Texas, has developed a set of policies to guide
the school and the city administrations in the joint um and
development of school and recreation facilities. This out-
lines the basic policy of the two agencies in acquiring ad-
jacent facilities and developing these on an integrated basis.
It states the responsibility of the two agencies with respect
to planning the facilities, and the principles to be followed
in developing school buildings, places the responsibility for
the development of all grounds around buildings, and spells
out responsibility for the planning and design functions.
The policy sets forth how the buildings will be used by the
two authorities, establishes responsibility for custodial serv-
ices and groundskeeping services on joint facilities, and
includes reference to certain specialized facilities that are
used jointly by both school and recreation.

An interesting cooperative agreement is in effect in Los
Angeles, where separate programs under supervised leader-
ship are conducted both by the school agency and by the
recreation and park agency. The agreement gives both pol-
icy and procedure whereby the construction and develop-
ment of facilities by the two separate agencies will not result
in duplication, but will complement each other in providing
a well-rounded program for all neighborhoods of the city.

Oakland, California, relies on a number of separate
agreements to govern relationships between the recreation
agency and the school body. A joint statement, developed
by staffs of the two agencies, describes a detailed program
for the joint development of neighborhood recreation sites
in conjunction with elementary schools. This agreement
provides for a one-third and two-thirds sharing of costs of
purchase and preliminary site development, such as grad-
ing, utilities, and street work with the schools assuming the
larger portion of the agreed-upon costs.

The agreement governing purchase and development of
sites is supplemented by leases for separate sites through
which school land is made available to the recreation de-
partment on a forty-year term basis without cost. Another
agreement details the conditions under which the city-owned
municipal swimming pools will be used by the schools dur-
ing the school year, and provides for a method of sharing
costs and staffing. Another separate agreement governs the
way in which school properties will be used by the recrea-

RECREATION

tion department. Other agreements clarify the responsi-
bility of the school and the recreation department in the
maintenance of jointly used facilities and the operation of
evening gymnasiums for recreation purposes.

A LARGE number of the cities studied havc developed joint
projects in which schools and mUnicipal areas or parks
have been located adjacent to each other with arrangements
for joint use. Choosing sites is accomplished in different
ways. In practically all instances, the preliminary selection
is made cooperatively by the school and recreation staffs.
In many communities, the city-planning-agency staff is
brought in at this stage. Five of the cities studied complete
the selection process by staff agreement only; seven carry
the staff decisions on to the respective boards; four inject
a third step between the staff and the boards by having a
special coordinating committee pass on site selection before
final approval of the boards conccrned. In one city the site
selection is accomplished by each agency working through
the planning commission.

In twelve of the cities studied, purchase is, in most cases,
accomplished by having each agency appraise and purchase
its own share. There are some instances, however, where
a slightly different procedure is followed for a specific site.
Six of the communities reported that one of the agencies,
either recreation or school, appraised the overall site and
purchased the land, separate deeds being taken by school
and city either in or after the closing of escrow.

Very few cities indicated any stated ratio of cost sharing
for joint-site purchase. Austin, Texas, establishes in its
agreement a fifty-fifty division of costs between the school
and city. In four other communities, indicating purchase
by a single agency, it appears that distribution of costs is
made on the basis of individual agreements for each site.
Alameda, California, shares the costs of a joint site on the
basis of a use formula in which the expected use for physical
education and for recreation is mutually agreed upon in ad-
vance. Some cities studied report a procedure whereby land
is traded between the two agencies after a joint site is pur-
chased.

I Where one of the agencies already owns land needed by
Ithe other agencies, some interesting and unusual legal ar-
rangements have been worked out. Fort Lauderdale, Flor-
ida, has worked out an arrangement whereby school land
is leased for a twenty-year period with an option to renew
for another twenty years, if conditions set forth in the lease
are met. This arrangement provides a recapture clause in
which the schools may have land returned to them when
needed for building purposes. The schools agree to a pen-
alty, however. In the event of taking over permanent im-
provements, methods have been devised to reimbur% the
recreation agency. Glenview, Illinois, has a lease arrange-
ment by which the park district obtains the use of school
land, the consideration for the lease being the agreement
of the park agency to do certain maintenance work around
the school building involved in the joint site. This particu-

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

EBRUARY 1960

lar lease arrangement has a ninety-day recapture clause in
the event the school needs the land for buildings.

In Seattle the park agency has arranged ninety-nine-year
leases under which the lessee assumes any assessments
against the property during the period covered. Leases in
other communities have been obtained on a thirty-year and
on a forty-year basis.

ONE OF the problems faccd in developing a joint site is
designing the site so it serves both agencies equally
well and provides a coordinated plan. Nine cities studied
met this problem by hiring a single landscape architect or
architect to design the entire area as a unit. In four other
cities a unified design is achieved by joint staff planning,
but separate architects are hired to draw up detailed plans
and specifications before going to bid. Seven cities reported
that each agency designed its portion of the joint areas.
Most cities followed the policy of letting separate contracts
for their own portion. Only two agencies reported letting
a single contract with a division of agreed-upon costs.

In planning new facilities to be used by both recreation
and schools, the idea of joint approval of plans for the out-
door areas by both agencies than for indoor areas is more
readily accepted. Only five cities have a definite procedure
whereby the recreation agency reviews the indoor plans in
school buildings to be used for recreation purposes; in three
other cities, it is consulted. In two communities the recrea-
tion agency lists its needs, but the final decision is left up
to the school planning office. In two cities a coordinating
committee is utilized to see that the indoor facilities meet
certain standards for recreation use.

Advantages of Joint Use

Economy (saves tax dollars) 10 cities
More efficient use of public land 9 “
Avoids duplication 7 “

“

DeveIOps mutually c00perative understanding 4
More adequate areas made possible 4

Meets with public approval 2 “
Enhances appearance of areas 2 “

“

Drawbacks of Joint Use

Possessive attitude of school staff hinders

complete cooperative use 5 cities
Changes in personnel bring about

different staff attitudes 5 “
School facilities not geared to a varied

recreation program 4 “
Process of planning together is a slow one 2 “

Joint use makes it difficult to provide time

for necessary maintenance and custodial care
School staffs resent extra work
School staff cancels out recreation use at

last minute for own use

Although using school building to advantage, fifteen
cities indicated the need for a separate building. Three
cities felt a separate building was not needed if the school
facilities were properly designed

An attempt was made to find out how various cities di-

81

 

vided the responsibility and costs for jointly used facilities.
[1] connection with outdoor areas, eight cities reported that
responsibility and cost for maintenance were handled by
each agency on its own land; six recreation agencies pro-
vide all maintenance on outdoor areas; in four other cities,
maintenance is provided by either the schools or recreation
with a complete charge-back of the eXpenses incurred by
either agency on behalf of the other.

The assumption of responsibility and costs for the main-
tenance of indoor facilities follows a more consistent pat-

WINTER COMFORT OUT'OF'DOORS—éa—ié

THE BASIC element of dressing for winter camping is
keeping comfortably cool. Perspiration must be
avoided at all costs, for it sharply decreases the insulating
value of the clothing. One should dress in many layers
rather than in one thick layer.

It might be said that there are three basic principles in-
volved. First, dress in many layers of loosely knit clothing
to trap insulating air. Second, cover these layers with a
windproof outer cover to minimize body heat loss, and,
third, take off or add layers as needed to keep cool and avoid
perspiration.

A two-piece pair of wool long Johns, wool ski trousers
that do not bind at the knees and are of a smooth finish
that will not hold the snow, one light and one medium wool
shirt, a good grade windbreaker of tightly woven material
(cut generously to avoid pressure resulting in decreased in-
sulation), two pairs of wool socks (one heavy, one medi-
um), a warm ski cap with ear covers, and ski gloves with
an inner wool layer covered with waterproof leather or ny-
lon——this is the basic minimum outfit. Boots must be se—
lected for the particular type of winter camping. If you
will be using skis, be sure you have an extra pair of boots to
keep your feet warm while in camp. Shoe-packs or other
similar shoes are wise as you will be moving about. These
are rubber-soled, leather-topped shoes—they may be called
Maine Guide Boots, Thermal boots, or Korean boots—and
are often more comfortable for walking than ski boots.
There are many opinions about what, if any, clothing should
be worn inside a sleeping bag. Whatever you wear, it must
be dry or the insulating value of the bag will be decreased.
Just before climbing in, clothing should be changed. Damp
clothing may be dried before the fire. All other clothing
can be taken into the bag and used under you for added in-
sulation, and it will be prewarmed for use next morning.
If you are camping in extremely cold areas, it will be nec-
essary to prevent your boots from freezing. Usually, this
necessitates your taking them into the bag with you, or
insulating them in some other way. This is one value of the
insulated thermal boot. They can be hanged against a tree

82

  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  

tern: in thirteen communities the school agency provides
all maintenance for indoor facilities used for recreation
purposes; in five others the schools make a charge for all
or a portion of the extra cost of opening up the indoor fa-
cilities as follows: (a) schools reimbursed for heat, light,
and janitorial supplies; (b) charge-back for some custodial
services and some utilities; (c) recreation charged for all
janitorial services (two cities); and (d) semiannual ex-
change of cost statements which involve both indoor and

outdoor facilities. #

in the morning, and any moisture that has frozen in them
will fall out.

Sleeping bags must be carefully selected for winter use.
Generally, the down-filled bags are the best, as they give
maximum warmth for minimum weight and volume. Down-

are better than one since added insulation is obtained from
the trapped air between the bags. Dacron bags are quite
heavy, and have a much greater volume than either the
down or the down-and-feather mixtures.

Cooking and eating in the out-of-doors is more difficult
than it is in the summer, but a little thought and ingenuity
can overcome the problems. Water supplies are not always
available, but if the snow is clean, it can be melted. Try
to start the melting with some water in the pot to speed tl
process. Stir frequently, for it is very easy to burn out the
pot. Allow plenty of time to melt the snow if many peop
are involved; it is not a fast process. In the winter, it is
imperative for each person to drink at least one and a half
pints of water daily. Survival researchers have found that
without this minimum water intake, there is a sharp loss 0
vitality and a relaxed “to heck with everything” attitude
develops, often proving fatal. This may be the reason we
so often hear of people throwing away essential equipment
in winter emergency situations. This warning appears in
all government survival publications, and should not I)
overlooked.

Fire building on snow can present quite a problem. An
effective way is to tramp the snow down well and build a
good foundation of green hardwood logs. Ultimately, the
fire will melt the snow around as well as under it. If you
are going to be in camp for a while, you will have a clear
melted area, which eventually will be big enough to accom-
modate your whole party.

These are only a few points, but if you read widely, pre-
pare yourself well, take at least the minimum equipmentI
use common sense, and, if at all possible, go with an ex-
perienced person, your winter camping experience should
be enjoyable and enlightening. (See Page 68.) #

Rscnmno.

 

LEISURE'TIME

PURSUITS IN COLLEGE

We become increasingly aware, every day, of the
need for more research in the field of recreation.
This study was made recently in a university.

dia, and by many people, over “leisure time.” A few
years ago the phrase was taken casually, and certainly
considered far too unimportant to warrant serious research.
It is a paradox that the leisure time for which men of note

. have fought since the beginning of the Industrial Revolution

! has now become a problem in itself.
I

i Unfortunately, the so-called average man has not kept
| pace. Recently the management of a California factory ex-
} perimented with a schedule change enabling each worker
to have a three-day weckend every second week. The ex-
periment, generally, was a failure, and the plant is now re-
stored to its conventional workweek.

Interviewed workers gave many reasons for their dislike
of the plan, including inflexibility within themselves, lack
of skill in pursuits that would have made the extra day en-
joyable, and complaints by several wives that husbands at
home had nothing to do and caused disturbance in the week-
day routine. A few of those interviewed had enjoyed the
experience, and had profited from it by learning new skills,
by pursuing hobbies without the tension induced by lack of

time, and by increasing communication among the members
of the family.

C ONSIDERABLE CONCERN is expressed through many me-

   
 
 
 
   
   
  
  
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
 

Despite the general agreement on the importance of rec-
reation in modern society, surprisingly little is known
about the use to which men put their leisure time. And
even less is known, in a factual way, concerning the uses
to which men would put it if opportunities were unlimited.

To clarify this situation, at least in part, the author un-
dertook to discover the desired leisure-time pursuits of one
segment of our American population—the students and
faculty of a representative Midwestern university. Here is
a group being provided with many opportunities; however,
these are limited by value judgments made by taxpayers,

concerning what is essential and desirable for the education
of future leaders.

Conduct of the Study

It was decided that a percent of the faculty and students
vould be canvassed for their three favorite recreation ac-
ivities and their least preferred ones.

 

ISS HOOLEY is an associate professor at Bowling Green
State University, Bowling Green, Ohio. The above article
grew out of a research study by the author on this subject.

FEBRUARY 1960

 
  
 

Agnes M. Hooley

Data were recorded for 804 subjects, and represent each

segment of the population as follows:

15 percent of the men students for a total of 395 subjects;
15 percent of the women students for a total of 328 subjects;
24 percent of the men faculty for a total of 53 subjects;
50 percent of the women faculty for a total of 28 subjects.

Interviewers were trained in survey techniques by the
author, and data was gathered between December, 1957,
and March, 1959. Here are some of the details:

Interviewers (upperclassmen or graduate students en-
rolled in the author’s courses in recreation education) were
instructed to record answers to two questions:

1) What are your three favorite recreation activities?
2) What are your least preferred recreation activities?

Subjects were givcn no clues concerning activities and
no list to choose from.

Interviewers were instructed to interview people at ran-
dom and to include their fields and initials on the sheet on
which answers were recorded. Whenever a subject was
found to have participated in the survey with more than one
interviewer, only the first set of answers was included.

Most of the interviews were conducted in halls, offices,
residence units, and in the public meeting rooms of various
campus buildings. In general, subjects were cooperative,
interested, and pleased to have been included. In a few
cases, there was extreme surprise upon being questioned.
One person interviewed angrily told the interviewer that

such a survey was “an invasion of privacy.” Only three re-
fused outright to answer.

Favorite Recreation Activities

Male Students. The following twenty-six items represent
the rank order listing of preferred leisure-time activities as
reported for ten or more men students (.03 of the sample) :

Basketball .... .. .30 of the sample Handball, fishing ................ .. .07
Swimming .... .. .26 Reading, pool, movies ...... .. .06
Football ........ .. .23 Softball ................................. . .05
Baseball ........ .. .22 Sports spectator, socialize,

Golf .............. .. .19 music in general .................. .. .04
Bowling ........ .. .15 Track, see TV and hear

Tennis .......... .. .12 radio. music, water ski,

Social dance,

wrestle, participate in
cards. hunting .08

sports, drive cars  .03.

F ifty-three additional activities were named by less than
ten of the 395 males questioned.
Female Students. The following twenty-five items were

$22

for ten or more women students (.03 of the sample) :

Cards, horseback riding: .07
Music in general, badminton: .06
Socialize: .05
Bridge, hiking, baseball,

modern dancing, softball,

Swimming: .53 of the sample
Tennis: .28
Social dance: .27
Bowling: .16
Reading, basketball: .12
Golf: .11 singing: .04
Volleyball: .08 Spectator sports, participate
in sports, field hockey, square dancing, sailing, ice skating: .03

Some fifty-two additional activities were named by less
than ten subjects of the 328 women questioned.

Male Faculty. The following seventeen items represent
the order listing of preferred leisure-time activities as re-
ported for two or more men faculty members:

Golf: .47 of the sample
Swimming, fishing: .20

Cards, basketball: .09
Hunting: .07

Reading: .17 Bridge, football: .05
Gardening, baseball, bowling: .13 Writing, skiing, spectator sports,
Tennis: .11 travel: .03

Female Faculty. The following fourteen items are listed
in the same order as for men (.07 of the sample).

Reading: .42 of the sample

Music in general: .21 Spectator sports, ice skating,

Swimming, drama, gardening: .17 bicycling, hiking, attend con-
certs, painting (art): .07

Research, golf, travel: .10

Observations

In studying the lists, one recognizes both active and pas-
sive pursuits. However, male students seem to favor active
ones and women faculty prefer semiactive or passive ac-
tivities. It is also interesting to notice the sharp decline in
interest expressed from first to second activity choices. For
example, women students favored swimming twice as often
as its nearest competitor, tennis.

Only four activities appear as preferred among all sub-
jects: golf, reading, watching sports, and swimming. Stu-
dents share fourteen preferred activities as follows: base-
ball, basketball, bowling, cards, golf, music in general,
participation in sports, reading, social dancing, socializing,
softball, spectator sports, swimming, and tennis. Faculty
share six as follows: gardening, golf, reading, spectator
sports, swimming, and travel. Men, including both students
and faculty, share twelve preferred activities: baseball, bas-
ketball, bowling, cards, fishing, football, golf, hunting, read-
ing, spectator sports, swimming, and tennis. Women, in-
cluding both students and faculty, share seven preferred
pursuits: golf, hiking, ice skating, music in general, reading,
spectator sports, and swimming.

Activities that may be individually enjoyed hold an im-
portant place among those favored by adult subjects, while
both individual and group activities are found among stu-
dent subjects. No doubt this reflects the needs of each age
group, and their corresponding social aspirations.

Least Preferred Activities

Although subjects were not limited in the number of least
preferred activities they might name, they listed few in com-
parison to the preferred activities.

Male Students. The following four represent the rank
order listing of least preferred leisure-time activities as re-
ported for ten or more men students (.03 of the sample) :

84

#—

cards, .06 of the sample; track, .04 of the sample; tumbling,
baseball, .03. ,

Some fifty-one additional activities were named by less
than ten subjects of the 395 men questioned.

Female Students. The following six items represent the
order listing of least preferred leisure time activities for
ten or more women students (.03 of the sample) : baseball,
.06 of the sample; swimming and cards, .04; basketball,
field hockey, and golf, .03.

Forty-three additional activities were named by less than
ten subjects of the 328 women questioned. They included
all active sports.

Male Faculty. The following four items represent the
order listing of least preferred leisure time activities as re-
ported for two or more men faculty (.03 of the sample) :
cards, .11 of the sample; sitting and listening, fishing, all
active sports, .03.

Female Faculty. The following four items represent the
order listing of least preferred leisure time activities as re-
ported for two or more women faculty (.07 of the sample) :

cards, all active sports, watching TV, .10 of the sample;
baseball, .07.

Conclusions
l

From the facts presented, the following conclusions can
be drawn for the population studied:

1. Preferred activities among subject catcgories ap-
proximate one another in quantity when one allows for the
variation in sample size from category to category.

2. Generally there is a sharp difference between the
percentages of subjects expressing a liking for the first and
second activities listed.

3. People enjoy both active and passive activities.

4. There are few activities appearing as preferred lei-
sure-time pursuits among all groups.

5. Preferred student pursuits tend to be more active and
more numerous than those preferred by adults.

6. Adults tend to choose activities that can be enjoyed
either alone, or in grOUps. Students favor group activities.

7. Leisure-time pursuits chosen by men tend to be of a
more active nature than those choscn by women.

8. Disliked activities among the four subject categories
approximate one another, quantitatively, when you allow
for the variation in the size of the sample within each cate-
gory.

9. Cenerally there is a sharp difference between the per-
cent of subjects expressing a dislike for the first and second
nonpreferred activitics listed.

10. There is little unanimity of opinion concerning dis-
likes. Only one——cards———appearcd in all catcgorics. I

11. Preferred leisure-time pursuits far outnunlbcr dis-1
liked ones, especially among adults.

A good recreation program is a vital, constructive, and
motivating force on a campus. Institutions everywhere
should answer one question honestly: Do we have the kind
of program which can be dcscribed in those terms? If not,
there is a second question: When do we start to build such

a program? #

RECREATION I

 
 
     

   

  

RESEARCH

.. .. .-. .-.-.-.¢.s.:.:.:.:.'.-.-.- 5-. .

Need for Year-Round Swimming Programs

After a careful study of the advantages and disadvantages
of different types of swimming pools the Utah State Ex-
tension Service and Utah Recreation and Parks Associa-
tion came to the following conclusions:

0 Weighing cost against usability, the outdoor-indoor com-
bination pool seems to be the most practical type for the
intermountain area. This pool allows year-round use with-
out losing the appeal of outdoor swimming during warm
weather.

0 Whenever feasible, the school and the community ought
to share construction and operating costs in order to insure
a COOperative school-community swimming program, mak-
ing maximum use of the facility.

0 The pool should be located as conveniently as possible
for both school and community use.

0 The swimming program should include required swim-
ming instruction for junior-high- and/or senior-high-school
students, instruction classes for adults and young children,
competitive swimming, and a reasonable amount of time
each day for recreation swimming. Specialized phases such
as synchronized swimming and fancy diving should be

added when feasible.———From “Utah Needs Year Around

School-Community Swimming Programs” by Clayne Jensen.

Constant Vigilance Needed

The preservation of open space is one of the two activi-
ties requiring the closest attention of authorities concerned
with the development of metropolitan areas, in the opinion
of William H. Wilcox, executive director of the Greater
Philadelphia Movement. In commenting on highway de-
velopment he stated:

When highways preempt parkland the state high-
way department and the Federal Bureau of Public
Roads should reimburse the governmental body
for the parkland surrendered for highways in the
same way a private owner is reimbursed. I am
reliably informed that the Fairmount Park Com-
mission of Philadelphia received not one red cent
for the land taken by the Pennsylvania Depart-
ment of Highways for the Schuykill Expressway.
I am also reliably informed that this is the general
practice.

This practice should be altered. Governmental
bodies which lose parklands to highways should
be reimbursed with federal and state highway
funds so that new park areas can be acquired to
help offset the land used by the highway system._

FEBRUARY 1960

Ingredients of Effectiveness

The reaction of the people of a community when a rec-
reation executive departs to take a job elsewhere affords
a clear indication as to the effectiveness of his service and
the value of specfic qualifications, professional attitudes,
and abilities. The following comments by the chairman
of a local recreation commission, a successful business
executive, at a reception for a superintendent of recreation
leaving for work in another community, clearly indicates
the high regard in which he was held:

To paraphrase one of Shakespeare’s famous
lines, but in reverse we have come not to bury
Frank, but to praise him—our Little Caesar of rec-
reation. In 1946, when we accepted our respective
duties, I saw him pick up a small acorn and de-
velop it into a tree of substantial proportions with
branches reprmenting various facets of recreation
facilities and activities. While he was bringing
the tree to maturity he was slowly but surely en-
dearing himself to the . . . heart of our community.
Why do we honor him so? The basic reasons, in
my opinion, are these:

1. Because of his sterling character—one any
youth would like to have and any youngster emu-
late—an attribute befitting a person dealing with
people, especially children and youth.

2. Because of his quiet, rugged personality, which
enabled him to acquire in his soft-spoken, diplo-
matic way the things he felt necessary to accom-
plish his ends.

3. His fabulous capacity for work. Ten, twelve
or even sixteen hours have been his normal work-
day. Why did he do this? F or sheer love of his
chosen profession—a truly happy man. To you
who don’t already know this, I say you are honor-
ing today a most unusual public servant.

4. His ability to conceive and carry out recreation
programs that tend to contribute to human better-
ment. This phase of his character is chiefly re-
sponsible for the broad range and quality of the
program we offer people of all ages in this bor-
ough.

5. Ability to carry out these programs economic-
ally, by utilizing available facilities and enlisting
volunteer help. We have been able to get for free
what many communities pay for. I can say with-
out fear of contradiction that for every dollar
spent for recreation in this borough it has received
a dollar’s worth plus a substantial dividend.

Mexican Hat Dance enlivens Fiesta de Bellas Artes

given by recreation Spanish classes.

I n background are paintings by class members.

HAVING FUN
WITH SPANISH

Marion C. Sparrow

AVING “Fun with Spanish” is the
H theme of five recreation Spanish

classes in the Los Angeles Rec-
reation and Park Department’s East
Valley District. To make these classes
self-sustaining, a small fee is charged,
which covers the cost of instructor,
maintenance, and incidentals.

In order to obtain real value from
these classes, it is very necessary to have
someone not only qualified to teach
Spanish but with an appreciation of
recreation and leisure-time activities.
Los Angeles was fortunate in obtaining
the services of Grace E. Reeves. Miss
Reeves has her BA from Pomona Col-
lege and her MA from Claremont Col-
lege; and is also a graduate student of
the University of California, the Uni-
versity of Mexico, and the National
Conservatory of Music, Mexico City.

Her wide experience in lecturing,
song recitals, radio and television pres-
entations in Spanish, about places and
things in Mexico and the Americas,
makes her an authority in her field.
Miss Reeves teaches her classes to speak
Spanish, using recreation methods,
thereby creating an atmosphere of fun
and relaxation from the outset.

The first lesson is important, espe-
cially since this is “recreation” Spanish.
Social activities play a big part as les-
sons progress. Learning how to greet
each other is socially important. So,
immediately, the phrases “How do you
do?” and “How are you?” are taught
to the class. This is followed by how

to tell time, learning numbers, and so

 

1——-—..—

MR. SPARROW is district director, De-
partment of Recreation and Parks, City
of Los Angeles, East Valley District,
North Hollywood, California.

86

on. The classes are divided into pairs,
and the class subject for the day is dis-
cussed within this framework. Each
student also makes a notebook and cop-
ies sentences and words for further
practice and use.

If you were to travel in Mexico or
the Americas, it would be important for
you to know how to ask directions, how
to order a meal, how to buy souvenirs,
names of places, dates of special events,
and what could be more important than
how to give proper instructions? How
to inquire about lodging is vital too.

As the classes progress, Miss Reeves
teaches her pupils how to make grocery
lists, the names of colors, seasons of the
year, and how to converse about the
weather. Current events, business and
political situations are also a part of
Spanish Miss

Reeves says singing tunes Up the ear,

recreation learning.

which is so essential in language train-
ing, so singing of Spanish songs has its
place also.

All recreation leaders know that the
periodic special event gives Spice and
zest to any rccreation program, so many
fiestas, teas, and luncheons are planned
where costuming is the order of the

day. At these special events, on holi-

Brotherhood is one of the most
demanding—and most rewarding—
principles in our lives. lts applica-
tion is not limited to our home or to
our homeland. The responsibilites

of brotherhood stretch around the
world; and wherever men dwell,

their needs and their successes are
for all to share.

-——Dwrch D. EISENIIOWER.

 

 

 

days, birthdays, and so on, visual aids
are used, with color slides of Spain.
Mexico, and the Americas being shown.
The food, of course, is typical of the

occasion. At these parties and special
holiday celebrations words and sen-
tences are related to the event. As the
party or event goes on, Miss Reeves
enunciates the words and sentences,
followed by the class.

These are several examples of special
events:

Mariana, 12 (doce) Febrero, sera

el cunlpleaiios de un gran presidente

de los Estados Unidos de América,

Abraham Lincoln. (Tomorrow, the

12th of Febranry, will be the birth-

day of a great president of the United

States, Abraham Lincoln.)

El vierncs 14 (catorce) sera el Dia

de San Valentin. (Friday, Feb. 14th,

will be V alentine’s Day.)

Here are a few rules Miss Reeves has
utilized in teaching recreation Spanish:
0 Speak only in Spanish during class.
0 Speak only to your partner in class
during the practice speaking session.

o If you cannot understand your part-
ner say: “Otra vez, por favor.” (Again,
please.)

0 If you still cannot understand: “Mas
despacio, por favor.” (ll-lore slowly,
please.)

o If you wish to say something in
Spanish and do not know how, do not
say it. Change your mind instantly and
say something you do know.

0 Give your partner an opportunity to
ask questions by saying, “l’rcgnntas.
por favor.” (Question, please.)

The number of classes has increased
each year, proving “Fun with Spanish"

is popular in the recreation field. 

R scamrrox

Careful planning and a thorough
knowledge of photography
went into “catching” this angelfish.

HOSPITAL
FISH

Jean Jackson

Pets and their care enrich many
leisure hours. The National Rec-
rcation Association’s Consulting
Service on Recreation for the Ill
and Handicapped has long recom-
mended that institutions try to in-
clude pets in their recreation pro-'i
grams. Fish are simple and easy
to care for and create interest and
eXcitement for children and adults
alike. Tanks can be set up so that
nonambulant patients can feed
and watch the fish. Long-term
patients who remain in an insti-
tution receive much satisfaction
in assuming responsibility for an
aquarium. Within its four glass
i walls there is birth and death, an
f endless world of adventure in
flashing colors that draws the at-
tention and creates new vistas.

  
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
   

OUR FASCINATED CHILDREN bent
F over the fish tank watching the

mating process of the betta fish.
Six months ago most of these children
did not know that such a thing as a
tropical fish existed, nor would most of
them have cared. I would like now to
enter their names as ardent fish fans.
This is a very unusual group; its mem-
bers are all patients at the Children’s
Psychiatric Hospital in Ann Arbor,
Michigan. These children are emotion-

 

MISS JACKSON is on the staff of Chil-
dren’s Psychiatric Hospital, Ann Ar-
bor, Michigan. Condensed and reprint-

ed with permission, from The Aquar-
ium, July 1959.

EBRUARY 1960

ally disturbed and under the care of a
psychiatrist. That they should be able
to rise above their many problems and
give the tr0picals the fussy care needed
was startling.

Our project began in the school at
the Children’s Hospital. Classrooms are
small and compact, accommodating
anywhere from four to seven children
at a time. Because of our children’s
emotional problems, it is often difficult
to interest them in activities dealing
with school. For this reason, a project
such as tr0picals must be planned care-
fully.

One of the first operations was to
interest the children in the activity
which 1 had planned. To do this I
brought in one of my already stocked
personal aquariums. Color was impor-
tant in catching the children’s eyes. For
this I used a pair of red velvet sword-
tails, two pair of platys, one pair black
and one blue, and several pairs of gup-
pies. I set the aquarium on a table in
plain sight and waited for their reac-
tions.

After the aquarium had been in the
room for a week, the children began
asking questions about the fish and
their habits. Then someone asked if it
would be possible to get a tank some-
where and set up his own aquarium. I
answered that there were tanks enough
for all if the children would be willing
to fix them up themselves. (We were
very fortunate that the University of
Michigan fisheries supplied us with dis-
carded tanks the children could repair.)

The aquariums came to us in a bat-

 

tered condition. Most were rusted,
without glass, and all leaked. We pur-
chased some aquarium cement, mea-
sured and ordered double-strength
glass, purchased paint, turpentine, a
stiff wire brush, some sandpaper, and
Went to work.

The first job was removing broken
glass and old aquarium cement. In
some cases this involved chiseling out
the old glass. The rims were brushed
with the wire brush and then sanded
carefully to remove as much rust as pos-
sibie. Rims were then given two coats
of paint to prevent further rusting.
When this was done, the children fitted
the glass to their tanks, cementing it in
place with the aquarium cement. To
make a background for their fish, they
then painted the back of one piece of
glass.

During this time some interesting
things were occurring in the group.
Most of our children have a difficult
time getting along with each other and
other people. As we worked together,
the children began to help each other.
The I-can-do-it-myself-with-no-help-
from-you-or-anybody-else attitude was
gradually melting away and a more
friendly, reasonable attitude was re-
placing it. Their relationship with me
began to improve as well. This seemed
to be the first stirrings of a real group
spirit.

When the work on the tanks was fin-
ished, we were ready for gravel, plants,
and fish. Because of the importance of
color to the children, some colored
gravel was purchased in addition to the
regular gravel. Our budget necessitated
using regular gravel primarily, with the
colored gravel as lagniappe. The child-
ren became quite ingenious at hiding
the regular gravel under a layer of col-
ored gravel. They planted the plants
and gathered rocks which were care-
fully boiled before being placed in the
tanks.

We used the book Exotic Aquarium
Fishes as a guide for selecting the fish.
After having selected the fish, the child-
ren and I made a buying trip. The ma-
jority of our purchases were live-bear-
ers, because I thought our children
might not have the patience to work
with the egg-layers. Wie did, however,
purchase some angel fish and a pair of
bettas, the latter for their unique breed-

87

ing habits and coloring. It would now
seem that our tanks were complete, but
I had reckoned without the determina~
tion of my children.

They now demanded a pump and
filters. Busy minds set to work to con-
struet a breeding tank, tables for dis-
play purposes, and an elaborate light-
ing system to display the tanks to their
best advantage. Another schoolroom
has begun to breed the fish for commer-
cial purposes, using the hospital staff as
clientele. The money they take in is used
to improve the equipment or buy more
fish. They are trying to refine several
strains of platys and guppies.

About the time things seemed to be
going well, we observed a peculiar dot-
ting on the fins of several of the fish.
Our fish had developed Ichthyophthi-
rius, or the “Ieh.” We were unaware,
in the beginning, that this disease was
serious. This error in judgment cost
as ten fish and came close to eradicat-
ing our entire stock. We set up one tank
as a hospital tank and treated it with
salt, a five-percent solution of methy-
lene blue and raised the temperature of
the water to eighty-five degrees. After
an anxious three weeks the majority of
the fish recovered.

All this, of course, took many months
of hard work, but the result was ex-
tremely satisfactory. Because of the
personality problems of our children,
we would not have expected that this
project would have been received so
warmly. The hobby offers endless pos-
sibilities for the future and should con-
tinue to be a useful tool in helping
children back on the road to mental
health. If anyone would like to know
more about our project or would like
to share ideas with us, please write and
I will be very happy to answer. #

 

Reprinted with special permission
from The Saturday Evening Post.

“How can we start a club with only four
members?”

88

 

   

A REPORTER’S NOTEBOOK

 

International Recreation Notes

0 The planning fame of Westchester
County, New York, has reached as far as
Salisbury, Rhodesia, South Africa. The
County Recreation Commission received
a formal request from the Amenities
Department of that community for a
copy of Dr. Sal Prezioso’s talk, given in
Philadelphia last fall, at the annual con-
ference of the American Institute of
Park Executives. (Dr. Prezioso is coun-
ty recreation superintendent.) Salis-
bury, with a population of 61,760, has
been having difficulty planning parks
for recreation use. Though most of the
inhabitants are natives, they know of
Western ways since the British estab-
lished a settlement there in 1890.
0 Unions representing five million out
of the more than eight million unionized
British workers are starting an inten-
sive drive for a shorter workweek. The
General Council of the Trades Union
Congress, with which nearly all the un-
ions are afhliated, put its full weight be-
hind this proposal. Britain has a longer
workweek than the United States, with
the average for men around forty-eight
hours, for women and apprentices,
about 4-6.3. But these figures do include
overtime. The TUC goal is a forty -hour
week, such as France’s, Canada’s, and
Australia’s.

The General Council said, “Work is
not an end in itself. It is the means to
the enjoyment of a higher standard of
living and more leisure for rest, recrea-
tion, and personal development leading
to a fuller and more exciting life.”

0 An Italian resort has built a ski jump
of a spaghettilikc plastic for use in year-
round competition. In the town of Ponte
di Legno, the plastic brushes are laid on
the slope in very much the same way a
thatched roof is put on. To ensure its
slipperiness, the jump is soaked with
water. According to The New York

Times, skiers have found the slope ex-
eellent.

This idea sounds like a dandy for
those areas of the United States that
never see a snowdrop, but yet would '
like to have skiing.

0 Russian children are children, just ll
like any other: they play dodge ball,

hopscoteh, and jump rope in the streets I
and parks. In their athletic fields, how-
ever, they do calisthenies, seeming to
prefer this form of exercise much more
than American children. The foregoing
notes are from “Russian Children and

Their World,” in Child Study, Winter,
1958-59, by Milton J. E. Senn, MD, as
told to Anna W. M. Wolf.

Dr. Senn reported further that he

never saw a toy gun and learned that no
war toys were sold in the stores. The
avid pursuit of culture, he says, is ob.
vious at all age and economic levels:
Russians read widely, have many thea-
ters (including four just for children
in Moscow), for ballet, opera, and dra-
ma, as well as movie theaters. And.
naturally, folk music and dancing are
very popular.
0 One of Canada’s most pepular small-
boy sports last winter was minor hockey
in Hamilton, Ontario. The four arti-
ficial outdoor ice rinks swarm with
youngsters whamming a puck around
weekday nights and mornings, coached
by their fathers. Program supervisor
Earle Johnson, of the Hamilton llecrea- ‘.
tion Department, is in charge of ice-
time allotments and works with various
service clubs, which play a large part
in Canada’s recreation programs, ar-
ranging time schedules.

All boys get a chance lo play, regard-
less of ability, and each boy is charged '
a dime a game, but none has ever been
turned away if he didn't have it. Last
year, all told, there were about 1,600
boys competing on some sixty teams in

  
   
   
 
   
 
   
  
  
  

RECREATION I

the Hamilton Recreation Department’s
setup. The teams comprise four divi-
sions—peewee, bantam, midget, and
atom or squirt.

The motto of this program is “Keep
a boy on ice and you’ll keep him out
of hot water.”

Human Encroachment

Things are getting so crowded, a wad-
ingbird can’t find a nice, squishy marsh-
land to wade or eat in. National Audu-
bon Society research director Robert P.
Allen reported at the society’s recent an-
nual convention that such birds as the
egret, heron, spoonbill, and flamingo
are threatened with depletion and possi-
ble extinction by human encroachment
on their feeding grounds. They are
particularly endangered by the recent
growth of housing, industrial, and, yes,
recreation, development in former feed-
ing grounds in Florida, Texas, and Cal-
ifornia. Outboard motorboats also scare
them away.

Mr. Allen said the birds might be
saved, not by sweeping national meas-
ures, but protective procedures worked
out according to local conditions and
with the cooperation of local authorities.
There is food here for thought, if not
for the birds.

Meet the People

The seismographs may not have
caught the tremors, but there has been
a minor retirement earthquake in Chi-
cago Park District recreation personnel
since Terry Rose recently retired. As
of January 1, George
T. Donoghue also re-
tired as general su-
perintendent, as be
“due to the
rigors of adminis-
tration and the ten-
der age of seventy-five years.” He hopes,
however, to continue in a consulting
capac1ty.

The highlight of his career was the
creation of the Chicago Park District
during the dreary depression years. The
district at that time was known for its

said,

 

advanced administration methods, high-
ly competent engineering, and an ex-
tremcly extensive and progressive pub-
lic recreation program.

Replacing Mr. Donoghue will be Dan-
iel L. Flaherty, who had been his assist-

FEBRUtRY 1960

 

ant since 1946. Mr.
FIaherty has laborcd
in many different
sections of the dis-
trict, having startcd
as a junior clerk of
the old South Park
system. During the war Mr. Flaherty
was “loaned” to the Chicago Service
Men’s Centers, the hospitality project
that attracted worldwide acclaim. After
the war, he was promoted to assistant
general superintendent.

Meet the new president of the Ama-
teur Athletic Union of the United States,
Nick Barack. Born

in Yugoslavia, he
emigrated to the
States in his early
teens, where he set-
tled in Columbus,
hm Ohio. He attended
local high schools, followed by law study
at Ohio State University. For the past
sixteen years he has been recreation di-
rector in Columbus.

Mr. Barack has been active in the
AAU for a number of years in various

 

capacities. Among his interests is box-
ing, which is reflected as his election as
chairman of the national AAU boxing
committee from 1954 to 1959 and mem-
bership on the United States Olympic
Boxing Committee, among others. He
is also a past president of the Amateur
Softball Association.

Celebration

Up and down the length and breadth
of New York State this last year, vari-
ous kinds of celebrations have been tak-
ing place, commemorating the 350th
anniversary of the Hudson-Champlain
discovery. One such climactic celebra-
tion took place at year’s end—Decem-
ber 2, to be exact—in Westchester Coun-
ty, New York, with an art exhibition, an
exhibit of selected Americana from the
collections of Westchester’s histOrians
and restorations, and, the icing on the
cake, “Inheritors of the Dream,” a pag-
eant depicting the history of the county.

These events were presented by the
county recreation commission, in coop-
ration with the Westchester Year of
History, other public and private or-
ganizations, and many, many West-
chester citizens. A souvenir journal was
prepared, with the usual acknowledg-

n1ents, lists of committee members, and,
containing as well, a capsule report on
what various Westchester towns had
done as their particular part of the cele-

 

AN OLD ILLUSTRATION OF THE HALF MOON
Cannes) of leudeucr Historical Sacha:-

bration during the year, bits of West-
chester and Hudson River history, pro-
grams of events, the pageant cas't. The
cover is reproduced here.

 

3hr imam-tam

 

s

0 Mrs. Isabella Osgood, eighty-six,
died December 27 of a heart attack at
her home in Princeton, New Jersey.
She was a past president of the Prince-
ton Garden Club, the Present Day Club,
a former National Recreation Associa-
tion sponsor and contributor for thirty
years.

0 Dr. Eleanor Anderson Campbell,
eighty-two, founder and director for
many years of the Judson Health Cen-
ter on Spring Street, just a few blocks
south of NRA headquarters, died De-
cember 30, after a long illness. In ad-
dition to her medical service at Judson,
she founded, at Deering, New Hamp-
shire, where she spent her vacations,
the Deering Community Center, for
nonsectarian Protestant conferences for
young people.

0 W. Vernon Gilmore, director of
physical education, health, and recre-
ation for the Salem (Oregon) School
District and the City of Salem, died
suddenly of a heart attack on December
22. He was fifty-two. Mr. Gilmore
served the Salem schools for twenty-
nine years, and was city recreation di-
rector from 1935 on except during the
war years. In 1958, he was named act-
ing park director for the city, filling that
position until last fall. He belonged to
many professional education and recre-
ation associations. #

89

R S

 

Voluntary Recreation Registration

How the profession is achieving status in New York State.

Over a long period it had become increasingly evident
that, if recreation were to achieve status as a profession in
the Empire State, it would be necessary for the profession
itself to adopt personnel standards and to institute a system
to appraise and classify the experience and qualifications of
those who were participating in it. In 1957, the New York
State Recreation Society took a positive step in this direc-
tion when it adopted a voluntary registration plan and ap-
pointed a five-man board of examiners to organize and ad-
minister this plan.

Board members are chairman Dr. Sal J. Prezioso, super-
intendent of recreation, Westchester County Recreation
Commission; James R. Crugnale, chief of Special Services,
Veterans Administration, Albany; Sidney G. Lutzin, re-
gional director, New York State Youth Commimion; Peter
Mayers, superintendent of recreation, New Rochelle; and
Dr. Harlan G. Metcalf, chairman, Department of Recreation
Education, Cortland State University. Dr. Edith Ball, as-
sociate professor of recreation at New York University, has
recently been appointed to a five-year term, replacing Dr.
Metcalf. Board members are appointed on overlapping five-
year terms with the intention of always having appropriate
representation of the Youth Commission, the National Rec-
reation Association, State Education Department, State De-
partment of Civil Service, state college or university with
a professional program in recreation, and the Ameriean
Recreation Society.

The administrative plan of procedure outlined and
adopted by the board of examiners has met with favor
among members of the state recreation society. It was pub-
lished as part of the recreation personnel standards booklet
mailed to all members of the state society. The plan called
for three classifications: recreation administrator, recrea-
tion supervisor, and recreation leader. It was decided to
issue certificates of registration to each applicant who met
the qualifications in any of these classifications. Hereafter,
he would be a registered member of the recreation profes-
sion in New York State.

The Board of Examiners interpreted their elassifications
as follows: A recreation administrator is one who is quali-
fied and certified to direct, control, and manage all recrea-
tion affairs of an agency. A recreation supervisor is one who
is qualified and certified to assume appropriate supervisory
functions under the general direction of the recreation ad-
ministrator. A recreation leadcr is one who is qualified and
certified to assume appropriate leadership functions under
the immediate direction of either the supervisor or the ad-
ministrator, or both.

Standards of knowledge, abilities, education, and experi-

90

O

N N

  
  
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
  
  
  
   
 
   
  
    
 
 

ence were set forth for each classification. Reasons for de-
nying or revoking certificates were also enumerated. Reg-
istration fees of five dollars for administrators and three
dollars for supervisors or leaders were established to finance
the plan. Provision was made for applicants to have the
privilege of appealing the decision of the board of examiners
to the executive committee of the state society. Certificates
would remain in effect continuously, except where the holder
failed to be actively employed in recreation for a period of
five years.

A “blanketing-in” period was established to allow al
personnel employed full time, year round, in recreation. to
register, without examination, by submitting an application
and a registration fee. The application form requested for-
mal education background, paid experience in the recrea-
tion field, membership in professional and service organiza
tions, and references. A photograph is also required for
identification purposes. Board members investigated th
applicants and made recommendations to the entire boar
which took official action on each application.

The plan has been enthusiastically received by the recre-
ation profession, and, to date, 482 applications have been
received and processed as follows:

   
 

Classification Approved IDisapproved Total Applicants

Administrator 152 IQG 258
Supervisor : 9] I I 102
Leader 'i l 17 5 I 122

Totals 360 I 122 I 482

 

*-—‘-—-—-‘—‘-—..._—...-._.__r—-—-—— .—

Fecs received have proved ample to cover printing and i
cidental expenses involved in the plan.

The board of examiners is aware that some dissatisfactio
exists, either because of disapproval of applications or be
cause a number of persons “blanketed-in” do not meet t1
minimum personnel standards of the New York State Ree
reation Society. This was inevitable, in order not to exclml
those valuable members of the recreation profession wh
were educated in the “school of experience,” but whose for
mal education would not qualify them by today‘s standart
for positions they now hold. llowever, the results achieve
have exceeded all expectations.

The “blanketing-in” period (one year’s grace) has no“
been closed and the state board is in the process of arrang
ing unassembled examinations for others who might be it
terested. Some applicants who did not qualify for registra
tion because they were not employed full time. year round

RECREATIO

in the field of recreation, will now become eligible for reg-
istration through examination, and many others are also
applying. Applicants previously disapproved will not be
required to pay an additional fee for reapplication. The
proposal to make the registration certificate a prerequisite
for civil service examination in the recreation field is now
being investigated with the New York State Civil Service
Commission. Future plans include publication of a dircc-
tory listing all registered recreation personnel in the state
and a plan for certification.

The New York State Recreation Society is now ready to
establish reciprocal agreements with other states having

Have You Tried . . .
A FAIRY TALE FESTIVAL?

state voluntary registration plans. Four states have already
indicated their interest in such reciprocity and the board
of examiners of the state society invites others who might
be interested. Perhaps the day will come when all fifty states
will have established registration plans so a national bureau
for registration of recreation personnel will become practi-
cal that could absorb all the state registration plans with a
“blanketing-in” period. When this dream becomes a real-
ity, the recreation field will truly have achieved the status
of a profession.-—DR. SAL J. PREZIOSO, chairman of N -
tional Advisory Committee on Recruitment, Training, and
Placement of the National Recreation Association.

An idea, usable any time of year . . .

To many Americans Hans Christian
Andersen fairy tales are an integral part

of Christmas. “The Little Match Girl,”
“The Little Fir Tree,” and “The Stal-

wart Tin Soldier” are all part of the
Yuletide season. Bringing the charm
and the international flavor of these
tales to the children of the country was
a Christmas project of the Arlington,
Virginia, County Department of Recre-
ation and Parks, assisted by the public
library and the Danish Embassy in near-
by Washington, D. C.

One of the department’s art instruc-
tors, vitally interested in creative art for
children, had long dreamed of arrang-
ing a series of art exhibits and demon-
strations. When she learned of a collec-
tion of children’s illustrations for the
Andersen stories, in Washington, D. C.,
awaiting shipment home to Denmark,
she acted immediately. Collected
through the International Union for
Child Welfare by the Danish Save the
Children organization, the collection
was first shown in that country under
the patronage of the queen of Denmark.
In the United States, the paintings had
been on tour for almost two years un—
der thc sponsorship of the Smithsonian
Institution and the Danish Embassy.
The Arlington showing was their final
appearance in this country.

Gaily colored and highly imaginative,

«FEBRUARY 1960

  

the paintings were the work of children
in some forty countries, some only five
years old when their works were chosen
to become part of this exhibition. The
art instructor selected some seventy-five
illustrations, which were hung in the
upper hall of the main recreation center
and in one large upstairs room.

Billed as a “Fairy Tale Festival,” the
exhibition opened the Sunday bcfore
Christmas. Guest of honor was the cul-
tural attaché of the Danish Embassy,
who spoke on the history of the col-
lection and its importance as a means of
cultural exchange among the children

      
 
 
   

RECREATHNU

_|O_
'BOWmea
ALLEYS

Reprinted with special permission.

“W ell, anyway,
we didn’t lose any of the balls.”

of many nations. Stafit members of the
public library told the children some of
the more colorful Andersen stories;
then the young guests werc invited to
another room to try their skill at paint-
ing their own illustrations.

Crayons and large sheets of news-
print paper were waiting. Some artists
sat demurely at low tables; others
sprawled on the floor. There were so
many embryo artists that they had to
work in relays, some listening to new
stories while others drew. To round out
a joyous preholiday festival, the recre-
ation department served punch and
cookies. During the two-week exhibi-
tion, the story hour was repeated twice,
each time with great success.

DeSpite the season of the year, al-
ways crowded with festivities, the com-
bination of art exhibit, storytelling, and
do-it-yourself participation proved to
be a happy one the department plans to
repeat at intervals throughout the year.

While international collections are
not frequently available to most recrea-
tion departments, local art groups and
instructors are usually delighted to set
up an exhibit or to arrange for demon-
strations of their specialties. Arranging
the exhibit or demonstration for maxi-
mum audience participation is a big
step toward success, especially when the
audience is quite young. 

91

a...
no. I .
.I:- -- III.......l-...-....'::¢

 
  

0 0 O I . I o I.
. .
--.:::. 

. . I . . - l l I I I.
o
'00::0-:::

° 0 o . . u I o .

-...'.:-.-.-_ ....... .'

........... o-
. . . . . . I .0
gal.-

.no
I.-
.-
a
call “n
all-
:n o
n o-
_- n . ::o.
a” I... ... .00
o lo
I I.
o: o- - OI...
.. .0. .I- u.
o . . . - . . o o o. to. n.
:09... o ' .
00... ' .0 H:-
"0 no 0..

 

For further information regarding
any of these products, write directly
to the manufacturer. Please mention
that you saw it in RECREATION.

 

 

Jean Wachtel

 

0 Refreshments and recreation activities belong together.
And, according to Gold Medal Products, makers of conces-
sion equipment and supplies, refreshment sales can bring
profits equal to ten percent of operating expenses. The com-
pany is offering a free, 32-page-booklet, Refreshments Be-
long, which offers detailed information for the beginner
and tells how to make a success of refreshment concessions.
TOpiCs covered are why sell refreshments, how to operate
the concession, what is needed, how to pay for it, and very
important, how to justify the venture to any possible critics.
Available from Recreation Supply Division, Gold Medal
Products Company, 307-11 E. Third Street, Cincinnati 2,
Ohio.

0 Noise control is a difficult problem to overcome in most
large enclosed areas, such as gymnasiums, arenas, audi-
toriums, large club rooms, and thc
like. One of the more effective
sound insulation materials is a
glass fiber insulation blanket. The
particular product shown in the
photograph here of thc Foster J un-
ior High School gymnasium, Seat-
tle, Washington, is Gustin-Bacon
Ultralite, selected hecause of its
combination of flexihility, light
weight, strength, and noise-reduc-
tion properties. The material was
hung in a crisscross grid pattern,
«- visually and acoustically effective.
The openings permit natural light to come through trans-
lucent roof pancls. The company also makes molded glass
fiber pipe insulation. For complete information, write
Castin-Bacon Manufacturing Company, 210 West Tenth
Street, Kansas City, Mimouri.

 

0 There is a great wealth of literature, most of it free, of-
fered by companies not only about their products, but how
to use them, construction details, dimensions and specifica-
tions, and, very often, background information. For your
convenience, we are listing several, with a capsule descrip-
tion. Do not, however, be limited by these. You can write
to the public relations departments of most companies ask-
ing for literature.

The Berlin Chapman Company, Berlin, Wisconsin, offers a
16-page fully illustrated catalog on Berlin Bleachers, cover-
ing EZ-A-Way mechanical folding bleachers and folding
chair stands, electrically operated mechanical folding
bleachers, and folding wall scats. They also describe their
ALL STEEL and aluminum portable bleachers, ALL STEEL
hydraulic movable portable bleachers, stcel deck, standard
permanent and deluxe permanent grandstands, basketball
backstops, electrically operated backstops, automatic C0111-
bination basketball and golf practice cages. C0py upon re-
quest from Bleacher Division.

The American Air Filter Company, Louisville 8, Kentucky.
offers a number of bulletins of varying lengths about their

92

numerous products. A good one with which to start would
be their lG-page composite product bulletin describing their
complete line. Bulletin No. 518 illustrates and describes
products for air filtering, cooling, heating, cleaning (con
trolling process dust), moving, exhausting, humidifyin
and dehumidifying air for the benefit of men, machines
and profits. Also included are descriptions of products man-
ufactured by AAF’s Kennard, Herman Nelson, Illinois En
gineering, and American Air divisions. The bulletin i
available on request from Dept. PD, American Air Fillc
Company, 215 Central Avenue, Louisville 8, Kentucky.
Other bulletins will be described at a later date.

The Maplc Flooring Manufacturers Association has mad
available a new Specifications Manual for Northern bar I
maple, beech, and birch flooring. Single copies of the Amer
ican Institute of Arehitects file-size booklet ean be obtaine

free from the MFMA, 35 East Wacker Drive, Chicago 1

o The dead of winter is here, bringing with it thoughts 0
building refurbishment. A product that could make you
various types of recreation buildings cooler this comint
summer is a new aluminum roof coating that’s said to im-
prove with age. Allied Chemicals’ Barrett Division devel
oped this product fundamentally for renovating old con
position roofs, to cover cracks and small holes, revitaliz
and protect the dried-out felt base, but in the process foun
that it had cxcellent heat insulating prOperties because i
grew brighter with the passage of time. In this manner, th
roof reflects back morc and more hcat in the summer month
and, during the winter, turns inside heat back toward th
house. The asphalt-based aluminum coating is availab
fibrated or unfibraled in five-gallon cans. For complete in
formation write Allicd Chcmicals, Barrett Division, 4-0 Rec

tor Strect, New York 6, New York.

0 A new game in the field of reereation and recreation ther
apy is Tahle Soccer. Sturdily constructh of good materials

 

the game is available in several different models. As man,
as eight people can play at onc lime in an area approximate'-
seven by five feet. The setup is pleasantly designed. main
tcnance negligible. Several models have been designed fn
coin operation whcre so desired. W ritc Table Soccer Lim

ited, P.O. Box 684. Madison 1, \Visconsin.

Recnmno

i

l

:FEBRUARY 1960

INDEX OF ADVERTISERS

Page

- American Playground Device Company  55
Brinktun, Inc. __.._.____..___._.. Inside Back Cover

. Castello Judo Equipment Company __._ ______ __ 93

Champion Recreation Equipment Company
Inside Back Cover

Chicago Roller Skate Company ________ __ Back Cover

Exposition Press ._..__.._.__._._...---_---._--c---- 93
leible Company   . 50
Gold Medal Products Company 53
Institutional Cinema Service, Inc. 55
James Spencer and Company  93
J. E. Burke Company ._.-....________e  54
Monroe Company  __  .. 93
National Sports Company  .. 55
Recreation Equipment Company. _ 50
Rheem Califone Corporation _____.. 53
Story, Craft and Song Service  93
T. F. Twardzik ..___--.__._______r.__.. __ . __ . 55

U. S. Defense Bonds  Inside Front Cover

Voit _____________ _- -H_____.__..-.1.._.__._ 49
Vogel-Peterson Company   ..  55
Wenger Music Equipment Company   93

 

 

 

 

Writers ‘A'

for RECREATION!

Please double-space all
manuscripts, Ieave wide
margins, and send the
original copyI n31 a
carbon.

JUDO UNIFORMS Of Championship Weight
“Pigeon” Brand—Kodokan Recommended

COAT: Double-Hollow Weave (Reinforced)
PANTS and BELT: Single Drill

"CASTELLo 91130

EQUIPMENT COMPANY
30 EAST TENTH STREET, NEW YORK 3, NEW YORK

 

Immediate Deliver
From Stock
in

New York City

 

New, improved Golden Age Club Pin.
Now in real gold plote with tree in
green lewelers' enamel. Safety catch.
50c each, including federal tax and
‘; postage.

Minlmum order 10 pins
Avoiloble only to authentic clubs.

JAMES SPENCER 8. CO.
22 N. 6th Street Philadelphia 6, Pa.

WFOLD'KING

w‘"

are

NO. lit-3 TABLE
nuance msoutr:
rumours tor

 

 

Mm

“as—Kira

' FOLDING TABLE LINE

Kitchen committees. metal groups. atten-
tion! Factory prices $.- dismunts up to 40%
to Churches. Schools. (.‘Iubs. etc. Monroe
all-new MILD-KING Banquet Tables.
with cscIUsive new automatic folding and
locking. super strength, easy seating. 68 models and sin».

- with the portable

SHOW WAGON

you can GO where

DIRECT PRICES
DISCOUNTS 8. TERMS

BIG NEW 1960 CATALOG FREE

Color pictures. Full line tables. chairs. tuhle and chair trucks. plat-
form-risers. mrtahle partitions, bulletin boards. Our 52nd year.

THE MONROE CO., 181 Church St., Colfax, Iowa

 

Free to WRITERS

seeking a book publisher

Two fact-filled, illustrated brochures tell bow
’ to publish your book, get 40% royalties, na-
tional advertising, publicity and promotion.
Free editorial appraisal. Write Dept. R-Z

Exposition Press / 386 4th Ave... MN. 16

Box 567

 

the events take place
...and be heard

MUSIC
EQUIPMENT
CO.
watonna, Minn.

STORIES, CRAFTS AND SONGS

Recreationol ideos for boys ond girls in schools,
comps, playground, and recreational programs.
Send $1 for tlve different originol stories with crafts
and song materiols.

Story, Craft and Song Service

Ottawa, Illinois

 

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING

RATES: Words in regular type $.15 each
Words in boldface type $.25 each
Minimum ad accepted . . .. $3.00

DEADLINES: COpy must be received by
the iifth of the month preceding date of
the issue in which ad is desired.

COPY: Type—or clearly print—your message and the address to which you wish
replies sent. Underline any words you want to appear in boldface type.

Send copy with remittance to:
RECREATION Classified Advertising, 8 West Eighth Street, New York ll, New York.

HELP WANTED

Recreation Therapists
for California State Hospi-
tals. Opportunity to plan
and conduct individual pa-

tient recreation as well as
special group activities;
modern equipment and fa-
cilities available. Positions
open to college graduates
with major in recreation or
recreation therapy, which
included supervised field
work. No experience re-
quired. Starting sala ry

$415.00 per month; promo-
tional opportunities; liber-
al employment benefits.
Write State Personnel
Board, 801 Capitol Avenue,

Sacramento, California.

Recreation Supervisor
opening in Denver, Colo-
rado, for college graduate
with recreation or related
major, plus five years’ ex-
perience in a planned rec-
reation program, including
three years in a supervisory
capacity. Duties involve

administration, year-round
golf program, and/or sum-
mer waterfront activities.
Monthly salary range: $525-
657. Apply Career Service
Authority. Room 180, City

and County Building, Den-
ver, Colorado.

SERVICES
AVAILABLE

Square Dance Caller, col-
lege, club, or convention.

Piute Pete, 55 West Eighth
Street, New York 11, New
York.

The publisher assumes no responsibility for services or items advertised here.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

93

 

Magazine Articles

ADULT LEADERSHIP, December 1959
A Look at “Creative Thinking,” James S.
Winston.
AMERICAN FORESTS, December 1959
How Much Is Enough? (Glacier Peak
Wilderness Area).
ARTS AND ACTIVITIES, January 1960
What Shall We Do About Contests? Bur-
ton Wasserman.
What To Do with Old License Plates,
Yvonne Parks Hunt. ‘
A Way to Quick-Print, Margaret Winston
Stone and Eleanor Ashbough.
CAMPING MAGAZINE, December 1959
Decentralization—Forward Step to Better
CaInping, Lois Goodrich.
Established Camps Can Deeentralize, Vern
0. Harper.
MUSIC JOURNAL, January 1960
Music’s Place in Recreation, Siebolt H.
FHeswylr.
RECREATION MANAGEMENT, December 1959
18th Annual Conference Proceedings.
SENIOR CITIZEN, January 1960
The Inevitable Four-day Week, Edward W.
Ziegler.
Who Goes to White House Conference?
SWIMMING POOL AGE, December 1959
3rd Annual Awards Design Competition
Winners.
TODAY’S HEALTII, December 1959

Everybody’s Square Dancing, James (I. G.
Connifl.

Beeks & Pamphlets
Received

   

    

Education

AMERICAN DEGREE MILLS, Robert H. Reid.
American Council on Education, 1785 Mas-
sachusetts Avc., N.W., Washington 6, D.C.
Pp. 100. Paper, $1.00.

ARTS AND LETTERS: A National Program
Needed? Center for Information on Amer-
ica, Washington, Conn. Pp. 4. $.35.

DISAPPEARING PLAYROOM, THE (reprint), Eu-
nice E. Bigelow and Rowena M. Shoemaker.
Play Schools Association, 41 W. 57th St.,
N. Y. 19. Pp. 4. Free.

FIT FOR COLLEGE. AAHPER, 1201 16th St.,
N.W., Washington 6, D.C. Pp. 24. $.50.
GROWTH OE THE MIND, A. K. Koll'ka. Little-
field, Adams, 128 Oliver St., Paterson 1,

NJ. Pp. 427. Paper, $1.95.

How GOOD IS OUR KINDERGARTEN? Lorraine
Sherer. Association for Childhood Educa-
tional International, 1200 15th St., N.W.,
Washington 5, D.C. Pp. 35. $.75.

HOW To HELP YOUR CIIILD IN READING, WRIT-
ING AND ARITIIMETIC, Frieda E. Van Atta.
Random House, 457 Madison AVe., New
York 22. Pp. 374. $4.95.

How To HAVE WHAT YOU WANT IN YOUR FU-
TURE, Lena Y. chrummond. Ph.D. and
Minns S. Robertson, Ph.“ Pageant Press,
101 5th Ave., New York 3. Pp. 77. $2.50.

INTEGRATED CLASSROOM, THE, H. Harry Gilr ‘.
Basic Books, 59 4th Ave., New York 3. P1 .
338. $5.00.

94

 

ISSUES IN CURRICULL'M DEVELOPMENT, Marvin
D. Alcorn and James M. Linley, Editors.
World Book Co., 313 Park Hill Ave., Yon-
kers, N.Y. Pp. 420. $5.00.

JUNIOR COLLEGES AND SPECIALIZED SCHOOLS
AND COLLEGES (3rd ed., 1959) . Porter Sar-
gent, 11 Beacon St., Boston. Pp. 448. $5.00.

KNOWLEDGE IS NOT ENOUGH, Samuel B.
Gould. Antioch Press, Yellow Springs,
Ohio. Pp. 232. $3.50.

PRIVATE INDEPENDENT SCHOOLS, 1959 Year-
hook. Bunting 8: Lyon, Wallingford, Conn.
Pp. 1059. $7.50.

SPURS TO CREATIVE TEACHING, Laura Zirbes.
G. P. Putnam’s Sons, 210 Madison Ave.,
New York 16. Pp. 354. $5.75.

Ill and Handicapped

ADVANCES IN PSYCHIATRY, Mabel Blake Co-
hen, MD, Editor. W. W. Norton, 55 5th
Ave., New York 3. Pp. 314. $4.95.

ALCOIIOLISM: The Nutritional Approach, Ro-
ger J. Williams. University of Texas Press,
Austin. Pp. 118. $2.50.

CAPE TO CAPE RY WHEEL-CHAIR, Ernest M.
GutInan. William-Frederick Press, 391 E.
149th St., New York 55. Pp. 225. $4.75.

EFFECTS OF EARLY BLINDNESS, Seymour Axel-
rod, PhD. American Foundation for the
Blind, 15 W. 16th St., New York 11. Pp.
83. Paper, $1.00.

EMPLOYARILITY OE TIIE MULTIPLE-HANDI-
CAPPED (Reprint DR-21), William Usdane,
PhD. Nat’l Soc. for Crippled Children and
Adults, 2023 W. Ogdcn Ave., Chicago 12.
Pp. 6. $.25.

GIVE US TIIE TOOLS, Henry Viscardi, Jr.
Eriksson-Taplinger, 119 W. 57th St., New
York 19. Pp. 266. $3.95.

GROUP METIIODS IN TIIERAPY, Jerome D.
Frank, MD. Public Affairs Committee, 22
E. 38th St., New York 16. Pp. 28. $.25.

HANDICAPPED, TIIE, Adolph A. Apton, MD.
Citadel Press, 222 4th AVe., New York 3.
Pp. 126. $3.00.

HEARING: a Handbook for Laymen, Norton
Canfield, MD. Douhleday, 575 Madison
Ave., New York 22. Pp. 214. $3.50.

HEARING LOSS, Greydon G. Boyd, MD. J. B.
Lippincott, E. Washington Sq., Philadel-
phia. Pp. 190. Paper, $1.45.

HELEN KELLER STORY, TIIE, Catherine Owens
Peare. Thomas Y. Crowell, 432 4th Ave.,
New York 16. Pp. 183. $2.75.

HELP EOR TIIE MENTALLY RETARDED TIIROUGII
VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION, Nat’l Assoc.
for Retarded Children, 386 Park Ave., S.,
New York 16. Pp. 24. $.25.

HOME CARE OE TIIE HEMOPHILIC CIIILD, Doro-
thy W. White. Nat’l Hemophilia Founda-
tion, 175 5th AVe., New York 10. Pp. 14.
$.25.

HOME NURSING HANDBOOK. Metropolitan Life
Insurance Co., 1 Madison Ave., New York
10. Pp. 29. Free.

HOW RETARDED CIIIIDREN CAN BE IlELPED,
Evelyn Hart. Public Affairs Committee, 22
E. 38th St., New York 16. Pp. 28. $.25.

How TO SECURE IIELP EOR TIIOSE WIIO NEED

IT. Community Council of Greater N. Y.,
345 E. 45th St., New York 17. Pp. 32. Free.

I RECLAIMED MY CIIILD, Lucille Stout. Chil-
ton Co., 56th & Chestnut Sts., Philadelphia
39. Pp. 89. $2.75.

IT’S GOOD To BE ALIVE, Roy Campanella. Lit-
tlc, Brown, 64 Bcaeon St., Boston 6. Pp.
3%. $4.50.

ON IIIE MYSTERIOUS LEAP PROM TIIE MIND To

THE BODY, Felix Deutsch, MD, Editor. In-
ternational Universities Press, 227 W. 13th
St., New York 11. Pp. 273. $5.00.

PHYSICAL THERAPY EOR MOTOR DISORDERS RE-
SULTING PROM BRAIN DAMAGE (Reprint
DR-22) , Sarah Semans. Nat’l Soe. for Crip-
pled Children and Adults, 2023 W. Ogden
Ave., Chicago 12. Pp. 11. 3.25.

PSYCIIOTHERAPY AND SOCIETY, W. G. Elias-
berg, MD. Philosophical Library, 15 E.
40th St., New York 16. Pp. 223. $6.00.

PSYCIIOTHERAPY WITH CHILDREN, Clark E.
Moustakas. Harper & Bros., 49 E. 33rd St.,
New York 16. Pp. 324. $5.00.

RECREATION FOR THE MENTALLY ILL, B. E.
Phillips, Editor. AAHPER, 1201 16th St.,
N.W., Washington 6, D. C. Pp. 77. $2.00.

SPEECII TIIERAPY, William T. Daley and E.
Milo Pritchett, Editors. Catholic Univer-
sity Press, 620 Michigan Ave., N.E., Wash-
ington 17, D. C. Pp. 166. $3.25.

TRUTII ABOUT YOUR EYES, TIIE (2nd ed.),
Derrick Vail, MD. Farrar, Strans 8' Cudahy,
101 5th Ave., New York 3. Pp. 180. $3.50.

TOWARD UNDERSTANDING STUTTERING, Wen-
dell Johnson. Nat’l Soe. for Crippled Child-
rcn and Adults, 2023 W. Ogden Ave., Chi-
eago 12. Pp. 36. 3.25.

WELFARE 8.- HEALTII IN NEw YORK CITY. 1959.
Community Council of Greater N. Y., 345
E. 45th St., New York 17. Pp. 64. Free.

WHAT’S IN YOUR FUTURE——A CAREER IN
HEALTH? Herbert Yahraes. Public Affairs
Committee, 22 E. 38th St., New York 16.
Pp. 28. $.25.

WIIEN A FAMILY FACES CANCER, Elizaheth
Ogg. Public Allairs Committee, 22 E. 38th
St., New York 16. Pp. 28. $.25.

WIIERE SOMERODY CARES, Mother M. Berna-
dette de Lourdes & others, G. P. Putnam’s
Sons, 210 Madison Ave.. New York 16. Pp.
252. $5.00.

Music

ANGLO-AMERICAN FOLKSONG SCHOLARSHIP,
D. K. Wilgus. Rutgers University Press,
30 College Ave., New Brunswick, N. J. Pp.
466. $7.50.

ART or J Azz, TIIE, Martin T. Williams, Editor.
Oxford University Press, 417 5th Ave., New
York 16. Pp. 248. $5.00.

COLE PORTER SONG BOOK, TIIE. Simon 8-
Schuster, 630 5th Ave., New York 20. Pp.
215. $12.50.

COMPLETE BOOK OE 20TH CENTURY MUSIC.
TIIE (rev. ed.). Prentice-Hall, Englewood
Cliils, N. .1. Pp. 527. $7.50.

FAVORITE TUNES (for 2- & 3-part trehlc
voices), compiled by Ilarry W. Seitz. Har-
old Flammcr, 251 W. 19th St., New York
11. Pp. 30. $1.50.

READ ’EM AND WEEP (reV. ed.), Sigmund
Spacth. Area, 480 Lexington Ave., New"
York 17. Pp. 248. Paper, $1.25. I

SONGS EOR FUN (for 2-part voices), Jerry
\Veseley Harris. Ilarold Flammer, 251 W.
19th St., New York 11. Pp. 62. Paper,
$1.25. ‘

SONG \VITIIOUT END, Hilda Whitc. E. P. Dut-'l
ton, 300 4th Ave.. New York 10. Pp. 300.
$3.95.

WIIY DO LITTLE CIIILDREN SING? E. llorteuce
Lindorli. Augustana Press, Rock Island,

111. Pp. 15. 5.10.
Sports, Physical Education

 

  
   
 

BASEIIALL PLAY AND STRATEGY, Ethan Allen.
Ronald Press, 15 E. 26th St., New York 10.
Pp. 361. $5.50.

RECREATIO.

BASEBALL STORIES, Parke Cummings, Editor.
Hill 8: Wang, 104 5th Ave., New York 11.
Pp. 210. $3.00.

BASKETBALL GUIDE Sept. 1959-Sept. 1960, Ir-
nIa Schalk, Editor. AAHPER, 1201 16th
St., N.W.. W’asltington 6, D.C. Pp. 160. Pa-
per, $.75.

BASKETBALL—Individual Offensive,“Hot Rod”
Hundley. Gainsford Publishing, P. O. Box
2414, Delray Beach, Fla. Unpaged. $1.10.

BEST SPORTS STORIES 1959, Irving T. Marsh
and Edward Ehre, Editors. E. P. Dutton,
300 4th Ave., New York 10. Pp. 336. $3.95.

BETTER BOXING, Edie LaFond and Julie Men-
endez. Ronald Press, 15 E. 26th St., New
York 10. Pp. 118. $2.95.

BoaHng:

1960 OBC STANDARDS MANUAL. Outboard
Boating Club of America, 370 N. Michigan
Ave., Chicago 1. Pp. 64. Free.

OBC DIGEST OF STATE BOAT TRAILER LAWS
(chart). Outboard Boating Club of Amer-
ica, 307 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago 1. Free.
CATAMARANS, John Fisher, pp. 64; START-
ING To RACE, John Fisher, pp. 64; YACHT
RACING RULES, Simplified, Hugh Somerville,
pp. 49; COASTAL NAVIGATION WRINKLES, M.
J. Rantzen, pp. 61; OCEAN CRUISING, Guy
Cole, pp. 64. John deGraff, 31 E. 10th St.,
New York 3. $1.25 each.

EASY STEPS To SAFE SWIMMING, Evelyn Ditton
McAllister. Vantage Press, 120 W. 31st St.,
New York 1. Pp. 83. $2.95.

How TO MAKE FISHING LURES, Vlad Evan'off.
Ronald Press, 15 E. 26th St., New York 10.
Pp. 108. 33.50.

How To PLAY SHUFFLEBOARD, Col. P. C. Bul-
lard. 414 Lealman Trailer Ct., 3301 Lealman
Ave., N., St. Petersburg, Fla. Pp. 99. $1.43
(add $.04 to FIa. addresses).

INSTRUCTIONS IN SAILING, Hilary Tunstall-
Behrens. Sportshelf, P. O. Box 634, New
Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 144. $3.75.

IT’S EASY To WATER SK]. Northland Ski Mfg.
Co., 2325 Endicott St., St. Paul 14, Minn.
Unpaged. Free.

J UMPING SIMPLIFIED, Margaret Cabell Self.
Ronald Press, 15 E. 26th St., New York 10.
Pp. 80. $2.95.

MODERN ADVENTURES UNDER THE SEA, Patrick
Pringle. Franklin Watts, 575 Lexington
Ave., New York 22. Pp. 240. $3.95.

MODERN SHORT PUNT, THE, Lou Thom How-
ard. Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, NJ.
Pp. 181. $4.95.

MUSIC AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION, R. M.
Thackray. Sportshelf, P. 0. Box 634, New
Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 133. $3.50.

POPULAR J UDO, Pat Butler. Associated Book-
sellcr, E. State St., & Maple Ave., Westport,

, Conn. Pp. 78. $2.50.

RECORDS AND CHAMPIONS, Sportshelf, P. O.
Box 634, New Rochelle, N. Y. Pp. 96. Paper,
$2.00.

ROWING To WIN, Colin Porter. Sportshelf,
P. O. Box 634, New Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 155.
$4.25.

‘SADDLE UP,’ Lt. Col. Frank C. Hitchcock.
Sportshelf, P. O. Box 634, New Rochelle,
N.Y. Pp. 286. $6.75.

SAILING. Sportshelf, Box 634, New Rochelle,
N.Y. Pp. 32. $.75.

“SAILING PRIMER, W. D. Park. Sportshelf,
P. O. Box 634, New Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 109.
$3.25.

'SOFTDALL WITH OFFICIAL RULES (3rd ed.),
Arthur T. Noren. Ronald Press, 15 E. 26th
St., New York 10. Pp. l39. $2.95.

FEBRUARY 1960

 

The Little Naturalist, Frances Frost.
Whittlesey House, 330 W. 42nd St.,
New York 36. Pp. 47, illustrated.
$2.50.

The appeal this book of verses will
have for Children lies in the poet’s sensi-
tive approach to nature rather than in
any startling use of word patterns. Eln-
ploying conventional verse forms, Miss
Frost caught nature by surprise in the
small lives of baby foxes, chipmunks,
rabbits, frogs, birds, and insects, and
relath it all to experiences which are
familiar to the human young.

Kurt \Verth’s generous double-page
illustrations, in COlor and black-and-
white, extend the attractiveness of a sat-
isfying format throughout the book and
illuminate the imaginative stretch be-
tween its covers—Elizabeth Culbert,
National Recreation Association Li-

brary.

Pantomimes, Charades and Skits,

Vernon Howard. Sterling Publishing,
4‘19 Fourth Avenue, New York 16. Pp.
124, illustrated. $2.50.

This little volume contains sugges-
tions for, and examples of, the three
types of dramatic activities mentioned
in its title. As an aid to a camp or com-
Inunity center leader, a teacher in
ChurCh or school, or a rural leader in-
terested in starting a teen-age group in
drama, it will be very helpful. The ma-
terial is well presented, interesting, and
in good taste.

Adventures in Making—The Ro-
mance of Crafts Around the World,
Seon Manley. Vanguard Press, 424
Madison Avenue, New York 17. Pp.
180, illustrated. $4.95.

Before the hands can create anything
beautiful, the heart must be ready. This
book is for the heart. Beautifully illus-
trated, beautifully printed, it tells of the
romance Of crafts—how they started,
why they started, where they started.

PUBLICATIONS

Covering the Leisure-time Field

AS the author says, “From the Cloaks of
the ancient Hawaiian kings to Paul Re-
vere’s Liberty Bowl, to the Clay jug of
a young craftsman today, imagination
and craftsmanship are found every-
where, at all times, among all people

of the world.

The romance of eaCh craft is devel-
oped through the use of a short tale
about young boys and girls of many
lands and many ages, and leads smooth-
ly into authentic information about the
craft itself. lts Charm, sympathy, and
enthusiasm will help any youngster
from around nine to fourteen develop
new respect for the work of his hands,
and a new interest in the two thousand
years of crafts covered here.

The illustrations are gorgeous. They
were selected from more than fifty mu-
seums and other agencies, and cover
the best examples of crafts of the world
—down the ages—a truly lovely and re-
markable book. Craft leaders should
find it valuable in developing interest
in the program. Storytellers will find
fascinating tales in it. No one starting
it, regardless of age, will be able to put
it down without reading it.

Gemcraft—How to Cut and Polish
Gemstones. Lelande Quick and Hugh
Leiper. Chilton Company, 56th &
Chestnut Streets, Philadelphia 39. Pp.
182, illustrated. $7.50.

Did you know that gemcutting has
been one of the fastest growing hob-
bies? It is estimated that some three
million people follow some phase of
“rockology.” Some two thousand deal-
ers cater to these hobbyists by supply-
ing suCh machines, supplies, books, and
other needs.

Why suCh popularity? Because it
can be a family hobby, can be followed
at some time every day, is not seasonal,
requires no expensive gear, and pro-
vides a real, creative outlet resulting in
something beautiful.

This book, beautifully ilustrated,
95

will be welcomed by all “rockhounds”
who wish to do more than merely col-
lect specimens. To agencies and de-
partments interested in organizing such
a hobby club, it gives valuable informa-
tion techniques, supplies, and equip-
ment on all phases of gemcutting, from
the simple to the most elaborate. Ex-
pensive, yes, but worth it.

Be Your Own Judge, M. Emett Wil-
son. Abelard-Schuman, 404 Park Av-
enue, South, New York 16. Pp. 192.
$3.95.

Dr. Wilson, professor of music his-
tory and literature at Ohio State Uni-
versity, has written a provocative little
book on the various arts. He makes
the safe assumption that art is for peo-
ple, and that people should feel free to
enjoy the arts to the best of their ability.
His book contains many fine clues to
the enjoyment of the arts. It makes no
pretense of being a complete guide.
However, the reader will at least feel
encouraged to believe that he does not
need a complete technical comprehen-
sion of the arts before making his own
judgments or his own criticism of art.
Be Your Own. Judge provides him with

the first steps in assuming the role of
critic.

 

The story hour needs no justification
other than the enjoyment it affords both
storyteller and listeners. Though there
are times in the year propitious for in-
troducing special stories or groups of
stories, we must be alert to the danger
of allowing a theme to take precedence
over the stories themselves.

With this warning about overempha-
sis on theme, we suggest February as
a perfect time for adventuring through
history with heroes. It is truly a hero
month, with Lincoln’s and \Vashing-
ton’s birthdays setting the pace, and
Brotherhood Week Opening out into
every age and corner of world litera-
ture. It is a good time to invite those
older boys and girls who may have be-
gun to feel a bit self-conscious about at-
tending folk- and fairy-talc story hours.

It is a challenge to the storyteller to
compare the many fine versions of the
classic myths and legends that have
been prepared for young pe0plc and,

96

Alcoa's Book of Decorations. Gold-
en Press, 630 Fifth Avenue, New York
20. Pp. 94,i||ustrated. $1.95. Paper,
$1.00.

This little book, every page filled
with gay, colorful photographs and
sketches, shows how to use aluminum
foil in an amazing number of ways to
decorate for parties, special holidays,
such as Easter, Halloween, and Christ-
mas, and special occasions, such as
Mother’s and Father’s Day, showers,
anniversaries, Valentine’s Day, and the

like.

It also instructs in foil sculpturing,
masks, puppets, and special-theme party
decorations. The projects are clever,
original, and clearly described.

The Joy of Music, Leonard Bernstein.
Simon and Schuster, 630 Fifth Avenue,
New York 20. Pp. 303, ill. $5.95.

The Joy of Music contains the scripts
of seven Omnibus telecasts millions of
Americans enjoyed. This will give the
readers who viewed these lucid and fas-
cinating performances an Opportunity
to recall and review the fine presenta-
tions on “The World of Jazz.” “Ameri-

can Musical Comedy,” “What Makes
Opera Grand?,” and other subjects.

 

HERO MONTH

drawing upon his own background of
reading, to adapt them for telling. The
collections listed here are sources that
have been tapped many times. The
storyteller preparing a program for
“hero month” will find riches in them
all.——ELIZABETII CULBERT, librarian,
Nationai Recreation Association.

Begin will: Poetry

Book of Americans, Rosemary and
Stephen V. Bcnct (Rinchart, $3.00) .
A Way of Knowing (a collection of

poems for boys), compiled by Gerald
D. McDonald (Crowcll, $3.00).

Gods and Heroes

Thunder of the Gods, Dorothy G. Hos-
ford (Holt, $2.50).

Book of Myths: Selections from Bul-
finch’s Age of Fable, Helen Scwell
(Macmillan, $3.50).

Mythoiogy, Edith Hamilton
Brown, 35.00).

( Little,

All of Leonard Bernstein’s comments
and music are sound and authoritative
as one would expect from the famous
conductor of the New York Philhar-
monic.

Most of the commentary is under-
standable to the layman, and he will
feel he is being given a conducted tour
of music by a man who not only under-
stands music but understands people as
well.

Hearing—Gateway to Music, Adele
T. Katz and Ruth Halle Rowen. Summy-
Birchard Publishing Company, 1834
Ridge Avenue, Evanston, Illinois. Pp.

172. $5.00. Paper, $3.00.

Here is a thorough and detailed man-
ual on the rudiments of musical prac-
tiecs, based on hearing the elements of
music—melody. harmony, rhythm. The
book contains 250 examples, many of
them complete songs, and numerous
additional suggestions. This is both a
teacher’s and a student's workbook. but
in most cases the student will need the
help of a good teacher. It is well organ-
izcd, basic, and will equip the student
to come to grips with those changes the
twentieth century has effected. as well
as increase understanding of music of
all the ages.

Story of King Arthur and His Knights,
Howard Pyle (Scribner's. $3.75).
Merry Adventures of Robin Hood, “0-

ward Pyle (Scribncr’s. $3.75).
Coiden Fieece and the Heroes Who
Lived Before AehiHes, Padraic Co-
lum (Macmillan. $3.50).
The Coiden Treasury of Myths and
Legends (adapted from the world’s
great classics), Anne Terry White

(Golden Press, $4.95l.
Chiidren’s Homer: Adventure of Odys-

seus and the Tale of Troy. Padriac
Colnm (Macmillan. $3.50) .

American Legendary Giants

Yankee Doodie's Cousins, Anne Mal-
colmson (H oughton, $3.50) .

Pecos Bill, the Greatest Cowboy of All
Time, James Cloyd Bowman (Whit-
man. $3.00).

Ol’ I’aui, the Mighty Logger, Glen
Rounds (Holiday House. $2.50).

Recap/«non

REQUEST PRICES

FREE LITERATURE 6: SPECIFICATIONS

* Playground Equipment (5: Playground Plans

* Basketball Backstops
Indoor 6- Outdoor Type

* Bleachers
Gymnasium 6- Athletic Field

* Trampolins
Choice of 14 models

* Score Boards—F or Every Sport

CHAMPION RECREATION EIIUIP. INI}.

HIGHLAND PARK, ILLINOIS

CHANGE OF ADDRESS

If you are planning to move, notify us at least thirty
days before the date of the issue with which it is to take
cHect, if possible, in order to receive your magazines
without interruption. Send both your old and new ad-
dresses by letter, card or post oihce form 225 to:

SUBSCRIPTION DEPARTMENT
RECREATION MAGAZINE
8 WEST EIGHTH STREET
NEW YORK 11, 'N. Y.

The post oIiice will not forward copies unless you pro-
Vlde extra postage. Duplicate copies cannot be sent.

 

   
   
  

'  talk about

 

PROTECTION

 

  
  

NOTHING is protected like

the playing surface on the

ALL NEW FoId'n Roll for I960!

(iust one of many new BRINKTUN features)

  

Write for new Catalog and prices today!

0 710 North 4th Street
MINNEAPOLIS, MINN.
I'III [111 RC m
I 1107 Broadway. N.Y.C.

 

 

TENTATIVE

1960 National Recreation Association District Conference Schedule

DISTRICT DATES

California and Pacific February I4-I7
Southwest

Middle Atlantic March 23-25

Southwest March 30-3 I -Apr. I-2

Great lakes April 4-8
Midwest April 6-8
Southeast April I8-20
Pacific Northwest April I0-I3
New England May I5-I8

lOCATION

San Jose. California

Pocono Manor, Pa.

Shreveport, I.a.

St. Paul, Minn.

Kansas City, Mo.
Edgewater Park, Miss.
Sun Valley, Idaho

Swampscott. Mass.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

HOTEL

St. Claire

Pocono Manor Inn
Washington Youree and

Capt. Shreve Hotels
(connected by arcade)

St. Paul
President
Edgewater Gulf
The Lodge

New Ocean House

Space for I or  

.00...OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO

 

l
EXPAND ACTIVITIES IN YOUR GYM 1

Everyone can participate in roller skating, and it’s more fun
than a barrel of monkeys. Roller skating entertains and
exercises more pe0ple in less space than any other sport.
That’s why more schools, churches and recreation centers have

roller skating as an integral part of their programs.

NEW RUBBER-PLASTIC WHEELS ARE KIND TO GYM FLOORS

These new Duryle rubber-plosllc wheels outweor others and
are guaranteed not to mar or scratch the floors. "Chicago"
has a skate designed for any type of floor sbrfoce or finish.

Write today for free details on roller skating programs and '

skating equipment.

 

  

 gs

yWWI/C  Chicago Roller Skate Co... 4490-3 W. Lake Street, Chicago 24, Ill.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. I

