ROUND 1 
ISSUE

 

 
  
 

Page: PLAYOROUNOL
FOR 1960 
if”    NOTEBOOK '

GENUINI‘.

c7424; 5:2ka  ;

 
  
   

YEARBUUK

This book is a ready  
'| . reference for moior and

minor league batting
statistics. World Series
data, photographs of
famous sluggers and
historical baseball
highlights. Also con-
p toins on article "Base
it Hitting" written ex-
 pressly by Nelson
3 Fax for this year's
Yearbook.

  
  
 

SOFTBALL
RULE BllllK

Contains complete
oflicial I960 saltball
rules. pictures of the
I959 World's Soft-
ball Chomp: and
other valuoble in.
formation.

 

 On or around May I.

 Same as before (how DO we do

SEND ALSO [on M LOUISVILLE lin). $2.50 (32 m NRA mem-
SLUGGER BAT AND GRAND SLAM CATALOGS W8)-

We will be glad to send you copies at the l960   YOU ARE.

lauisville Slugger Bat and Grand Slam Gall Club
Catalog: for your ready reference in Ordering from

d . 1- '
7°“ °°'°'  bonrceliook for leadership
‘1; Th training; new ideas for rrafts.
 Write for this FREE material to mlqu fqmil‘, “ind”q q wrial

-   Hillerich l. Bradsby Co... louisville l. Ky. 1'.“ H ¢ , a. L. . I
gs... 23:: Box 506, Dept. no events. the performing arts, na-
" m k i
“was...” "" a  lure. ramy and hot days.
;.;**_: :3  ' .  
a, “it: a};
“W USEFUL TU ’ r ‘   '
 llaygronml liailus. ltllbb un..

camp and (lay-camp munselors.
Daily Vacation Bible Schools.
L v.1  - recreation leaders in institu-

 

tions and public agencies. ANY-
Llody. ANYwhero doing summer

    recreation work will: chimp...

. , Place your order N0 W with
    National Rem-cation Association. 8 W. 8th 5].. New York ll.

When writing to our advertisers. please mention litzcmzs'rttn'.

 

 

Play Outtlor Games Indoors

PHYSICAL FITNESS programs succeed best when they SAFE-T-PLAY GAMES are all based on the unique short

; make use of the natural tendencies of young people. Chan- flight ball that provides means for entire classes to take part
nel their dominant tendency toward m0tor acts into vigor— in spite of limited room. Safe-T-Play equipment is precision
ous, absorbing exercise with Safe—T-Play games designed molded to “Varsity” standards of light, resilient, unbreak-
for safe group play indoors and in confined areas. able polyethylene that prevents damage and accidents.

SAFE—T—PLAY DOUBLES INDOOR SPACE

%

Tell Your Sporting Goods Supplier to Show You the Complete Safe-T-Play Line
0050.... COSOM INDUSTRIES, Inc.

3.53333? 6020 Wayzai'a Blvd. Minneapolis 16, Minn.

 

:PRIL 1960 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

WHEREVER
CHILDREN PLAY

__ Safety!

Recreation equipment with
engineered safety to meet
the most rigid requirements.

a Playground Equipment
0 Indoor Basketball Backstaps
0 Swimming Pool Equipment

Literature for each line avail-
able on request—please specify...

DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED

' RECREATION
EQUIPMENT CORP

Dept. R160 --- 724 W. 8th St.
Anderson, Indiana

Leased FREE!

 

Stop wasting time recording inventory casts.
handing out balls and paying top prices for law

quality balls. Install this attractive, cast-cutting
TFT Table Tennis Ball Meter NOWI

leased FREE to responsible agencies an $10.00
deposit subiect to refund. Trouble-free operation
assured—return machine for FREE repair. Attrac-
tive hard wood and metal cabinet—JV: x 8% x 15
inches high. Easy to install. Holds 120 balls—
dispenses each for 10¢. Choice of 3 grades of
tap qualily balls. Use profit to maintain and re-
place paddles, nets, etc. No risk guarantee. Send
for free folder: “Stop Wasting Their Time."

T. F. TWARDZIK 8- (0.,

.mcorrouno. y

- ENANDOAH PENNA. 1": Ir“. 1'.-

  

IL

 

14.6

 

> A NATIONWIDE TRACK-AND-FIELD pro-
gram has been announced by the Oliice
of Operation Fitness—USA, as being
initiated under the sponsorship of a
Coordination-Implementation Commit-
tee of Cooperating Organizations and
Affiliates of the AAHPER-NEA. The
National Recreation Association is one
of the organizations cooperating with
this program as a member of the com-
mittee. The project, designed to con-
tinue two years or longer, will develop
track-and-field clinics for both children
and teachers, stimulate interest in track-
and-field activities, and open up in-
creased participation opportunities for
millions of children and youth through-
out the country. Bulletins, posters. olii-
cial forms, and other printed materials
will be available to leaders without cost
as soon as they are ofT press. For fur-
ther information, address Oeeration
Fitness—USA, American Association
for Health, Physical Education and Rec-
reation, 1201 Sixteenth Street, N.W.,
Washington 6, D. C.

t A GRADUATE FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM
was inaugurated for the education of
mentally retarded children. authorized
by Public Law 85-926. in September
1958. It will be administered by the
U. S. Department of Health. Education
and W’elfare. Interested persons may
apply (1) at the college or university
they wish to attend to determine wheth-
er it is a participating institution. or
(2) at their state department of educa-
tion. For further information, write to:
Exceptional Children and Youth Sec-
tion, Instruction, Organization. and
Services Branch, Division of State and
Local School Systems. Oliiec of Edu-
cation. 1'. S. Department of Health.

Education and Welfare, Washington

25, D. C.

t TIIE DEMAND F011 college and univer-
sity graduates in recreation continues
to increase. according to Frank S. indi-
cott, Director of Placement. Northwest-
.ern [Inivcrsily. Evanston lllinois. in
the report on his fourteenth annual sur-
vey. Companies will seek ten percent
more graduates from the 1060 classes
than they employed from the classes of
1959; forty-six percent of these eOIn-

thn writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

\

panies will visit more schools. Starting
salaries will again increase in 1960:
average for engineering will be $515
per month; accountants $450 per
month; sales $434 per month; general
business 5424- per month.

b Is YOUTH FITNESS A CONCERN of your
community? The week beginning May
1, 1960, has been proclaimed by Presi-
dent Eisenbower as National Physical
Fitness \Veek. \Vhat are you doing to
observe it? Also, what are you plan-
ning to do for Physical Fitness Week in
June (June 1 to 7) as a part of National
Recreation Month? We would appre-
ciate receiving a brief statement about
your plans.

t Youn JUNE CALENDAR INCLUDES, in
addition to National Recreation Month:
Youth Fitness \Veek, June 1 to 7; Na-I
tional Circus Week, June 1 to 7; “Let’s 1
Play Golf” \Veek, June 4 to 11; Family i
Recreation Wreck, June 8 to 14; Nation- I
al Flag Wreck, June 12 to 19; Recrea-
tion-aIId-tlIe-Arts \Veek, June 15 to 21:
Father’s Day, June 19; Recreation-
Through-Service Week, June 22 to 30.

Summer begins June 21.

t AN INDIVIDUAL QUESTIONNAIRE is now
being mailed to recreation leaders by
the 1'. S. Bureau of Labor Statistics.
We join the National Social Welfare
Assembly in urging everyone to fill it
out quickly and return promptly in ac-
cordance with instructions. Not all '
workers will receive this, as it is a-
sample survey, as such is the usual prac- 
tice of the U. S. Labor Department. Alli
information is kept confidential and ap-I

pears only in broad summaries. \,
l

) IF YOU IIAvEN’T RECEIon your June
[3 National Recreation. Month Kit. as
an associate or aliiliate of the National
Recreation Association. wrile for it at
once. Sets were mailed early in March.
April is the month in which to set up
your communitym'idc National Recrea-
tion Month Committee.

   
 
 
 
  

P IN RELATION To SWIMMING SAFETY.
the National Red Cross announces that
since the beginning of its safety service.

("Continued on Page 148)

lil—ICREATIO.

. APRIL 1960

 

Editor in Chief, JOSEPH PRENDERGAST
Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON

ASSISTANT EDITORS
JEAN WACHTEL ELVIRA DELANY

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Administration, GEORGE BUTLER
Program, VIRGINIA NIUSSELMAN

—-—-———-———_..__________________
VOL. LllI. Price 50 Cents No. 4

—-——————_..___________________
0n the Cover

BLASTING OFF to another world is easy in a paper
cutout rocket, with exhaust made of absorbent cot-
ton, galaxies and stars of sugar. Are your 1960 play-
ground plans ready for the launching pad or are you
still tinkering with the fuel mixture? April count-
down is right around the corner. We are indebted
for our cover to Michael Kosinski, who did an arti-
cle in November 1955 on how to make photograms,
of which the cover was an illustrative sketch.

Vext Month

While the May emphasis is on the aging American—
philosophy and program-—the other articles touch
on many facets of recreation. The centerspread is a
magnificent picture story of flower and garden festi-
vals, conducted all over the United States. George
Hjelte writes about parks as a necessity or an amen-

ion as exemplified by recreation areas in trailer
parks, supermarket parking lots, housing projects,
and motels. You will want to read about how to

.tinIulate your softball program, both for youth and

he not-quite-middle-aged man; how to get and keep
your parks; and you will be fascinated to read of a
rampolin program for blind children. Other arti-
les cover quiet adult games, music and recreation,
vho’s who at the forthcoming Congress in Wash-
ngton, D. C. this fall, and many other subjects.

hoto Credits

’age 153, Hugh Morton, Wilmington, North Caro-
ina; 157, Globe Photos, New York City; 161, (low-
.r left) LaFayette Studio, San Francisco; 163, Wash-
'ngton Evening Star photo by Tom Hoy.

RECREATION is published monthly except July and
August by the National Recreatioo Association. a service
organizatioo supported by voluntary contributions. at 8
\‘C’esr Eighth Street. New York 11. New York. is 00

file in public libraries and is indexed in the Reader:’
Guide. Subscriptions $4.00 a year. Canadian and for-
eign subscription rate 34.50. Re-entered as second-class

matter April 25. 1950. at the Post Office io New York.
. New York under Act of March 3. 1879. Acceptance
for mailing at special rate of pOStage provided for in
Section 1103. Act of October 3. 1917, authorized May
l. l924. Micronlms of current issues available Uni-

versity Micronlms. 313 N. First Street. Ann Arbor.
Michigan.

Spare Representatives: Mark Minahan. 185 North Wa-
bash Avenue, Chicago 1. Illinois.

Copyright, 1960, by the
National Recreation Association. Incorporated

Printed in the U.S.A. 3"" it.
c I
Gm Hm?

" Trade mark registered in U. S. Patent Office.

 

h

PRIL 1960

 

 

THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

CONTENTS

GENERAL FEATURES

A Legacy of Play (Editorial) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 153
“Watch Me Climb the Mountain” . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 157
Recreation and Delinquency . . Kenneth W. Kindelsperger 159

“Roving Leaders” Extend Our Reach . . Edward H. Thacker 162
Cultural Coexistence in Richmond . . . Siebolt H. Frieswyk 164

Playgrounds Abroad . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 168
ADDIINISTRATION
Unique Spray Pool . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 156
More Fun in Penn’s Woods . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 160
Institutc of Personnel Administration . . W. C. Sutherland 161
Federal Urban Planning Assistance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 173
Uniform Outfits for Leaders . . . . . . . Virginia Musselman 175
A Nautical Play Community . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 177
A Thrce-Way Project for Recreation . . Frank D. McClelland 178
A Cooperative Playground Plan . . . . . . . . John D. Dittmar 181
Research Reviews and Abstracts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 182
PROGRANI
Playgrounds in Action 1960 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 154
“Wake Up and Read, Young AnIcrica!” . . . . . Iris Vinton 167
Dungaree Danbers . . . . . . . . . . . . Joyce and John McGimI 170
Pirates on the Playground . . . . . Beatrice McAuIi/fe Stone 172
Plants Children Like to Grow . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 174
Dramatics on the Playground . . . . . . . . Nancy Eichsteadt 176

REGULAR FEATURES

Things You Should Know . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 146

Letters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 150

III Menloriam . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 151

Resources and Refercnces . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 152

Recreation for the 111 and Handicapped . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 187

Market News . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 188

Index of Advertisers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 189

Classified Advertising . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 189
Books and Pamphlcts Rcceived, Magazine Articles . . . . . . 190
New Publications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 191

    
 

DU CAT! ONAL

 1 ATION The articles herein printed are the expres-

OF - an of the writers and not a statement at
AMER 1 CA Dalicy of the Natianal Recreation Assaciatian

. . g I O

147

  
   
  
  
  
   
  
 
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
  
    
  
 
  
 
   
   
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  

_._.. , ' {Continued from. Page 

l in 1910, 38,000,000 certificates hav
been issued to persons completing for—
mal courses—21,000,000 in first ai
and 17,000,000 in water safety. Durin
the past year, Safety Services spurre
its efforts to teach Americans how
to live safely. Certificates issued a.
persons completing Red Cross first-ah
and water-safety courses numbere
2,513,300. The past year, the mouth

I to-mouth (or mouth-to-nosel techniqu
of artificial respiration was adopted
Red Cross, upon recommendation
the National Academy of Science. N
tional Research Council. as the 0
most practical for a single rescucr
use. The method was publiciz
through issuance of a textbook suppl
ment, which also presents nlodific
tions of the two manual resuscitati
methods.

  

  
   
    
    
     
 

‘ .,easify_,...__,_,
RR; 2 s92» ‘" Sass?
' $5,000 ANNUAL PROFIT! ‘ '

Don't handicap your program for lack of funds. Refresh-
ment Profits give you 10% more funds. Write for free 32-
page booklet which tells how easily your department can
earn them. Free l20-page catalog and descriptive literature

 

) TM: 111‘” NATIONAL SCIENCE FM

'. dedicated to inspiring greater inter
II in science among students, will he b

' ' in Indianapolis, Indiana. May 11 to l
 t 1960. For brochure of facts. send t

is also yours for the asking. Write today.
I
‘  ' Science Service, 1719 N Street. N.\
 .5 Washington 6. D. C. d:

  

     

 ® I ) TIIE 1960 NATIONAL CONFERENCE 0

@    m. 1;. Social Welfare will be held in Atlant
308 E. THIRD STREET GMT! 2. are _l City. June 5 to 10, according to Charl

' ' l. Schotland. conference preside:

There are fifty-four national organiz
tions participating in the planning. ll

 

' METALS formation and room reservation fort
o FELT may be secured from the National Co
0 CORK ference at 22 West Gay Street. COllll

. . MOSAICS bus l5, Ohio.

0 LOOPERS ) SWIMMING POOL seossons get a I.

Where can You  o WOODEN ITEMS break. The “15 rules that nonpro

. STICK CRAFT corporations which build and oper:

. CANDLE MAKING community swinnning pools and otb
.
.

Everything For Your

recreation facilities. admitting the pn

LEATHER KITS lie for a nominal fee. qualifv as t.
 program TOOLS exempt charitable organizations.
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __, . pLAs'nc EMBEDDlNG reason: Such corporations serve a g
l  I I _ . ETC. erally recognized publie nced and
I Request your new 4 x 6 fifty- I . lessen the burden on government an
I star flag. It's FREE with pur- l to providc similar tax-supported se
: chase of $100 or more before i  Course ice. llle SC’I‘ViCC noted.
I
I May lOlh' 1960' one “09' l b PUBLICATIONS RELATED TO the \\'h
I only, to a customer. : from: _ _ _ . House Conference on Children

Youth arc availablc for purchase fr
the Conference, 330 lndepemlenee
enue. S.\\'*'.. Washington 25. l). C.

five books available are: The Wolf
Children. $6.00 I' plus fifty cents po.
and bandlingl ; Children in (1 Chan

World. $1.25 (plus twenty-five (
COMPANY postage and handling): State Re;

Digest. $1.50 (plus twentv-five 1

4707 Euclid Avenue 5832 Chlcago Avenue 4 East 16th Street _ . F .
postage and handling): Rational
Cleveland 3, Ohlo Chlcago 51, ill. New York 3, N. Y. gam'30n'0"3 Digest. 8150 (plus “ ‘
five cents postage and banrlli
I960 REFERENCE BOOK FREE FOR THE ASKING Conference proceedings. $2.25 ‘

twenty-five cents postage and bandl°

( C I I 0
1425 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. llECttt‘LA

I # p aygroun *-
c U)! safety . equipment

oday, as always, the J. E. Burke Company
ontinues to set the standard by manufac-
uring the highest quality playground equip-
ent. The Burke Better Built shield repre-
ents the company’s policy of maximum
afety plus years of trouble free service.
he same standards also apply to the com-

plete line of quality outdoor equipment in-
cluding such items as: Horizontal Ladders,
Sand Boxes, See-Saws, Swing Gates, Slides,
Basketball Backstops and Goals, Bicycle
Racks, Portable Platforms, Park Benches,
Picnic Tables, Tennis and Volleyball Post's,
Bleachers, Climbing Poles, and Parallel Bars.

REGULATION OFFSET BASKETBALL BAOIISTOP The
safest design available In outdoor backst0ps.
Support posts are off the play area, 2% feet
behind the backboard 6 feet apart. All steel
construction, certified maileabe iron fittings.
This backst0p offers an exclusive set screw
arrangement to eliminate backboard adjust-
ment problems, makes It easy to keep
backboard perfectly vertical at all times.

Also fan and rectangle backstops—single

and double post. Model BB—tS-OP

KIOOIE GLIOER COMBINATION Thls four way com-
bination features the self-pr0pulsion Kiddie Glid-
er. All moving parts are 24” from seat level,
eliminating head bumplng and plnched legs. Kld-
dle Gliders can be assembled with various swing
units to meet any particular playground equip-
ment requirement. Illustrated here are the Stand-
ard Swing, the Kindergarten Swing, and the Hobby
Horse Swing. ‘

Support pipes are 1%" o.d. galvanized steel pipe
and cross bar is of 2%" o.d. galvanized steel

plpe. Gllders are suspended by four as" x 1%"
steel bars. Model 8-501 Combination

0LIMB-A-ROUNO Designed for cllmbing, swinging,
chinning, and sliding. A safe tip-proof conlcal
series of climblng rungs provides dlverslfled play
for as many as 25 to 85 children (depending on
size of unit). Requlres little ground space, needs
no concrete footings, and Is easily assembled.
Climb-A-Round offered In five sizes, all con-
structed with heavy galvanized steel tublng—all
corners and Joints rounded.

HEAVY OUTY SWING Speclal rugged deslgn wlth
the highest safety standard of any comparable
swing unit manufactured. Triangular end pipes
plus a double set of Interior pipe supports puts
this model In a quallty class that sets the pace
In playground equipment design.
Heavy Outy Swing offered ln 2, 4, 6, and 8 swing
units. Interlocking knob construction gives rlgld
assembly on all fittlngs. Swing seat hangs 18"
from ground.
Frame (galvanized steel plpe)-t0p pipe—2%" o.d.
support pipe—1%" o.d.
Model 0400

HOBBY HORSE SWING Cast aluminum head,
hardwood seat, steel tubing frame—
Horse available on any frame.

SPAOE SAVER SLIOE De-
signed to give safe fun
in 1/4 of the ground space
required by standard
slldes. All metal (bright
color over galvanlzed
iron) constructlon with
stainless steel bedway.
Two lengths offered—8'
and 12'. Dual safety rails
at 14" and 28" surround
tap platform.

Oepth of slide chute ......................................................... ..6"
Ladder steps (non-slip perforated) ................ ..12 gauge steel
Model 512-8

EXTRA HEAVY DUTY MERRY-GO-ROUNO

nghest quality materials combined with
traditionally superior Burke construction make
this model the leader of any merry-go-round
manufactured. 41/2" o.d. galvanized steel pipe
support and the finest select hardwood are
assembled Into a rugged lifetime service

unit of playground fun.

Merry-Go-Rounds offered ln 6', 10', 12',

and 14' diameters with open face a

or enclosed center section.

Model M3-E

 

    
   
 
    
 
 
   
  
  
    
    
    
     
 
   
   
  
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    

  

approved for
tournament

play!

Doyton steel tennis, bodminton
ond poddle tennis rocquets ore
ideol for ony school or ploy-
ground progrom. Their "extra
whip” improves every youngster‘s
some—gives o speed ond
occurocy thot connot be
motched by any other type
of rocquet.

Whot's more, Doyton roc-
quets ore procticolly inde-
structible. Their steel strings
ond tubulor steel fromes ore

chonges. No covers or / ‘
presses ore needed to ,r " '
protect‘them. They won‘t i
worp, splinter, rot or sog.

investigote them now.
Ask your locol deoler
obout them—or write to«-
doy for complete infor-
motion.

omoo RABHUET contu-

740 Albright St., Arconum, Ohio

court layouts
‘ for tennis or
hadnitlton are
yours for the
asking.

Shuffleboutd

Fun For Everyone !

From 8 to 80 here is exciting reorea-
tion for all ages . . . lteen enioyment
tor pleyers and spectators.

Rugged. Dimco FreeGlide Shuttle-
boerd sets ere availeble for both out-
door end indoor installetion.

Easy to install . . . low In upkeepl

tf’rite today for colorful folder. "Let’s
Play Shuffieboor ,” containing com-
plete information on court layout and
equipment.

DIMCO-GRAY COMPANY

205 EAST SIXTH STREET
DAYTON 2, OHIO

150

.00
.......... . .

  

 

Readers! You are invited to send letters [or this page

to Editor, RECREATION, 8 West Eighth Street. Neu-
York ll—so that your ideas, opinions and attitudes
may be exchanged with others on the wide range of
subjects 0/ concern to us all. Here is your chance to
agree or disagree with the authors 0/ our articles.
Keep letters brief—not more than 250 words.

Proper Leadership

Sirs:

Youth leadership is in dire need of
continuous training programs, both
preservice and in-service, for paid and
volunteer leaders. The objectives of a
youth program should be set down be-
fore the program is planned and before
the mechanics are set up. Seldom do
leaders take into consideration the im-
portant objectives and outcomes of a
properly planned program.

The long-range outcomes of a pro-
gram should he studied before a pro-
gram is put into effect. One should al-
ways keep in mind the total child; the
entire growth of the child; his mental
and social attitudes; the physical body
development as well as the carry-over
values for the years ahead. Too many
leaders are concerned with the immedi-
ate program and have little or no
thought to the whole child or to the
total effects of the program to the future
of the child. Many leaders do not pos-
sess a professional position they hold,
nor do they possess a professional atti-
tude to the child who benefits from
their positive lcadcrship or who suffers
from their negative leadership.

If continuous and proper prescrvice
and in-service training programs are
carried on by competent trained lead-
ers, an education system can he set up,
and over the years, leadership ohjcc-
tives and techniques will improve to the
point where our children will benefit
from positive leadership, and very little
negative leadership will appear in our
youth programs.

EDSEL B. MAR’I'Z, Department 0/ Rec-

reation and Parks, Arlington. Vir-

ginia.

New Magazine for Handicapped

Sirs:

Congratulations to you for adding
pages for articles and information per-
taining to the field of recreation for the
ill and handicapped.

I am enclosing a c0py of Accent on

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

—The Editors.

Living—circulation 7,000, in all states
and forty-three foreign countries—I
thinking that perhaps you might wan
to write a small note about it in BBC-
REATION Magazine. If you would lik
to mention it, I will be happy to send
free copy to anyone interested.

RAYMOND C. CIIEEVER. Publisher,

and Editor, 802 Reinthaler, Bloom
ington, Illinois.

 
  
  
    
 
 
  
    
    
   
   
   
  
    
   
  
  

Note: Accent on Living is a pocket-
sized, national magazine, dedicate
to serving all hondicopped persons
and has an advisory board compose

of medical and rehabilitation special
ists.

“A Most Excellent February”

Sirs:

Congratulations on a most excellcn
February 1960 issue of RECREATIO
with its international rccreation flavo
l have asked my staff members an
board members to give me their capi
so I might send them to internation
fricnds who have visited my (leper
mcnt over the years. They are locat
in all parts of the world.

Keep up the good work you are doin
with the magazine!

THOMAS W. Lam'z, Superintemlen
Public Recreation, Mountain l’ar
District, Tacoma, W ash in gton.

Rave Notice:

Sirs:

My December 1959 issue [of liECR ..
ATION] is (log-earcd already from t
constant use it received by our par
time staff during the Christmas vac
tion period! The variety of subj
mattcr plus the pleasing overall layo
of the magazine continues to merit ra
notices from our staff.

HARRY B. VAN BELIJSIIEM. Uircc
of Recreation, Torrance, Californ

See March issue for article obo
Torronce's excellent day camp pr
groan—Ed.

Recount:

 

3111 memoriam

 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
   

Now you can

GO

where the events
take place

   ...and be heard!
WENGER PORTABLE BANDWAGON

The Mobile Combination Band Stand
and Outdoor Stage

Ideal for use at music events, rallies. acts. demonstra-
tions, and for speakers, the Wenger Bandwagon pro-
vides comfortable quarters for performers, plus assuring
resonance and volume for the audience. At site. the
Wenger Bandwagon opens in minutes into a generous
stage or outdoor theater. or a complete. scientifically
designed music shell for band. orchestra. or chorus.
Aftcr event, it folds quickly into a handsome, completely  ..'_
enclosed road trailer with ample locked storage space for OWATONNA

chairs. stands. instruments, or accessory equipment. May
be used indoors. tool Every community will want one!

Send for complete details and specifications. or ask for
a free demonstration. No obligation. of course.

 

. Dr. Nickolaus L. Engelhardt, well-
known educational consultant and good
friend to recreation, died February 24
in New York City. He was seventy-
seven years old. A senior partner in the
educational consulting firm of Engel-
hardt, Engelhardt, Leggett 81 Cornell, he
was one of the country’s leading author-
ities on conditions in public schools.

He cooperated with the National Rec-
reation Association in many ways, and,
when president of the American Asso-
ciation of School Administrators, he
prepared jointly with the Association a
leaflet entitled Planning School Build-
ings for Community Recreation Use.
This received wide distribution. He also
served as a member of the NRA Council
on Research in Recreation and spoke
at National Recreation Congresses.

    

    

MINNESOTA

 

. Dr. George Louis Meylan, pioneer in
youth camping and physical education
and an early advocate of greater atten-
tion to the health needs of American
youth, died January 15 in New York
City. He was eighty-six. During World
War I he took a leave of absence as
medical director of Columbia Univer-
sity to serve as-director of recreation
for the French army.

In 1892, Dr. Meylan organized a
camp for underprivileged children in
Bangor, Maine, one of the earliest
camps in the state. This was followed
five years later by a YMCA camp in
New Hampshire. He also founded his

own camps on Sebago Lake, Maine.

SAVE TIME, EFFORT, MONEY!

Now used by over 10,000 Schools, Colleges, YMCA's

Clubs, Recreation Depts., Camps, etc.

Available for all Sports and activities.

—— Write for Catalog—Dept: R —

THE PROGRAM AIDS COMPANY, INC.
we", om“ 550 Fifth Avenue - New York 36, N. Y.

 

It's Here! The NEW
3 r “SKELLY” I

A Variation of Board Billiards

Camps - Homes - Schools - Playgrounds
Indoors - Outdoors - Table - Floor

0
Simple, Easy-To-Follow Rules

Individually boxed ' Weighs 13 lbs.
Reinforced Construction - 2 to 4 players

0
Lively embedded rebound cushions
3’ x 3' hardboard playing area

0

Comes with 4 assorted colored catalin
discs, rules and 4 pushers.

SPECIAL INSTITUTIONAL PRICE—$11.00

SEND FOR OUR LATEST COMPLETE TROPHY CATALOG
SKELLY SALES CO. - 89 MAIN ST. - HEMPSTEAD, N. Y.
F. O. B. Hempstead Terms: Net 30 days

. Ovid Butler, influential forest con-
servationist, died February 20 in Wash-
ington, D. C. at the age of seventy-nine.
From 1922 to 1948, he was executive
lirector of the American Forestry As-
sociation. As American Forests maga-
tine said of him a few years ago, “As
nuch as any man of our time, Ovid
3utler helped to make conservation a
IOUSChOld word. . . .”

His career was marked by many con-
.ervation milestones, among them the
ntroduction of a fact-finding survey to
'eveal to Americans the conditions of
heir forest resources after the heavy
imber strain of World War II. He also
nitiated publication of a series of
books on conservation and forests. #

 

\PRIL 1960 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 151

   
 
  
  
 
  

A SOUND APPROACH
’TO HEALTH AND
PHYSICAL EDUCATION . . .

..w....callione

COMPLETE SOUND SYSTEM

Ideal for INDOORS, OUTDOORS,

ATHLETIC FIELD or GYMNASIUM

0 SINGLE UNIT CONSTRUCTION
- LIGHTWEIGHT, PORTABLE
' POWERFUL

- VARIABLE SPEED CONTROL for
classes in rhythms, movement
fundamentals.

- EXCELLENT P.A. SYSTEM for games
and other physical education require-
ments for up to 3500 persons,

- Califone’s exclusive CUEMASTER
providing instantaneous phrase
selection. Optional on many Califone
models.

PROMENADE
MODEL ZSV-BA

PROFESSIONAL NET . . . $199.50
With CUEMASTER . . . $12.50 additional

Write for detailed information on this unique model and other
models to fit your budget — Dept. IN.

C a I  f O n e CORPORATION

1020 NO. LA BREA AVENUE O HOLLYWOOD 38, CALIFORNIA

BA

—-'

 

@ccsfeQQe greatest name In

fencingeeuippent.

# a I I I
file rwswwié sport

for ybur physical 
education program

We Hear" brand—
'K-Pdllkalt Btt’tlyrnrnended

g" ’ ~ ..
PANTS and BELTEv-Single Drill TIGERBRAND 

Immediate Deiinry tram Sloclr In New York (It —
3O EAST IOtP STREEI

@asteEQe FENOINO EOOIPMENT COMPANY I
5 IItII IIIIIIIa II. I.

importers and manufacturers of fencing Equipment and u a Uniform:

 

         
   

IIIIIHIHID I"!

AMERICA’S FINEST ATHLETIC BALLS
FOR EVERY AGE GROUP,

__ __ PRICE OR SKILL—

, GOES WITH THE GAME
®

NEW YORK ll
CHICAGO H
[05 ANOELES II

 

"/ When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

RESOURCES AND REFERENCES

 

Behind the Headlines outlines a spe-
cial program technique for studying
intergroup relations through a more
meaningful use of newspapers. It shows
how a knowledge of the relevant facts
about news events, plus supplementary
reading and discussion, can help devel-
op an understanding of the meanings
behind the headlines. The 24-page
pamphlet was designed for use by com-
munity leaders and discussion groups
in programing and conducting prac-
tical workshops for adults on the prob-
lems within our democracy. Available

for fifteen cents from Anti-Defamation

League, 515 Madison Avenue, New
York 22.

T he Art of Shellcraft Instruction
combines a beginner’s manual with a
complete summary of shellcraft and
was written by Frank and Marjorie
Pelosi who have written previous man-
uals on this craft. Mrs. Pelosi is shell-
craft instructor for the St. Lucie County,
Florida, recreation department. This
84-page manual is available for a dollar
in a soft cover, in hard cover for $3.00,

from the Sand Box Shell Shop, Box 112,
Jensen Beach, Florida.

Conservation, a manual issued by the
Camp Fire Girls, is an excellent re-
source for nature and science leaders
in camps, schools, indoor centers and
clubs in urban or rural areas. An ex-
cellent conservation directory adds to
its usefulness. Available for $1.50 from
Supply Division, Camp Fire Girls. 450
Avenue of the Americas, New York 11.

Crouse-Ih'nds Bulletin. 2714 is a

pocket-sized edition of the company’s
Hoodlight catalog and is available free.
included is material on how to selcct
Tloodlights of all description: general-
purpose, heavy-duty. mercury vapor,
special, and for hazardous locations;
searchlights, undcrwater lighting, Hood-
light poles, accessories. installation sugE
gestions, and lighting calculations. For.
your copy of this 183-page bullctin
write Grouse-Hinds Company. Syracuse

1. New York.

Remember. Folks! is a Ioldcr to rc-
mind people to use courtesy and ecun‘
mon scnsc afloat. This would be exccl-_
lcnt for distribution at marinas and
other family boating ccutcrs. Get a
free supply from the Outboard Boating:r
Club of America. 30? North Michigan
Avenue. Chicago 1.

R acme «1‘on

Editorial

“Thus do I devise and bequeath—”

In 1907—the year this magazine,
then THE PLAYGROUND, was born—the
following legacy appeared in these
pages. Every once in a while, since
then, we have now and again exposed it
to the light of day, for it should be eter-
nal and read by all who love children.

That year, Mr. Lawrence Veiller,
chairman of the New York delegation
to the Playground Convention in Chi-
cago, called attention to the following
will, as, printed in the New York Times.

——Ed.

in trust for their children, all good
little words of praise, and encour-
agement, and all quaint pet names and
endearments, and I charge said parents
to use them justly and generously, as
the needs of their children may require.

I GIVE TO good fathers and mothers,

I leave to children, inclusively, but
only for the term of their childhood,
all and every, the flowers of the fields,
and the blossoms of the woods, with the
right to play among them freely, ac-
cording to the customs of children,
warning them at the same time against
thistles and thorns. And I devise to
children, the banks of the brooks, and

APRIL 1960

the golden sands beneath the waters
thereof and the odors of the willows
that dip therein, and the white clouds
that float high over the giant trees. And
I leave the children the long, long days
to be merry in, in a thousand ways, and
the night and the moon and the train of
the Milky Way to wonder at, but sub-
ject neverthcless, to the rights herein-
after given to lovers.

I devise to boys, jointly, all the use-
ful idle fields and commons where ball
may be played; all pleasant waters
where one may swim; all snow-clad hills
where one may coast, and all streams
and ponds where one may fish, or
where, when grim winter comes, one
may skate; to have and to hold the same
for the period of their boyhood. And
all meadows with the clover blossoms
and butterflies thereof; the woods and
their appurtenances; the squirrels and
birds, and echoes and strange noises,
and all distant places which may be vis-
ited, together with the adventures there
found. And I give to said boys each his
own place at the fireside at night, with
all pictures that may be seen in the
burning wood, to enjoy without let or
hindrance. . . .

 

To lovers, I devise their imaginary

world with whatever they may need: as
the stars of the sky; the red roses by
the wall; the bloom of the hawthorn;
the sweet strains of music and aught
elsc they may desire to figure to each
other; the lastingness and beauty of
their love.

To young mcn, jointly, I devise and
bequeath all boisterous, inspiring sports
of rivalry, and I give to them the dis-
dain of weakness and undaunted confi-
dence in their own strength. Though
they are rude, I give to them the power
to make lasting friendships, and of pos-
sessing companions, and to them exclu-
sively I give all merry songs and brave
choruses, to sing with lusty voices.

And to those who are no longer
children or youths or 'lovers, I leave
memory, and I bequeath to them the
volumes of the poems of Burns and
Shakespeare and of other poets, if there
be others, to the end that they may live
over the old days again, freely and ful-
ly, without tithe or diminution.

To our loved ones with snowy crowns
l bequeath the happiness of old age, the
love and gratitude of their children un-
til they fall asleep. 

153

   

Climber-slide by Creative Playthings.

et’s increase our playgrounds! How many communi-
L ties can report new ones? Long ago, in the days of

Joseph Lee, playgrounds were established to bring
the children off the streets, and the slogan of the day was
“Where shall they play?” If this was a great need in 1906,
how much more pressing is that need today!

With our eXploding population, crowded living condi-
tions, and vanishing play spaces, it is more important than
ever to make sure our children find a bit of ground under
the blue summer sky for outdoor play. And that they have
careful guidance, by specially trained lcaders.

The National Recreation Association 1956 Recreation
and Parks Yearbooh“ figures show that the 1,956 cities re-
porting had 18,224 playgrounds that year, but today, al-
though their numbers have increased, the nced for more
playgrounds becomes even more urgent. Let us, by all
means, take care to allocate space for these in our commu-
nities now-ufor today and tomorrow-ubefore it is too late!

*A new Yearbook will be published in 1961.

 

Creative adventure. Playground craft sessions should give
children opportunities to explore, build, discover, and ex-
press their feelings, fantasies, interests, and ideas. This
appealing paper-strip dragon is an example of the animals,
insects, birds, people, puppets, and masks children can cre-
ate on the playground, using only Scissors, paste, and
paper. He is one of the many creatures to be found in
Adventures with Scissors and Paper ( review on Page 192).

154

“c PLAYGROUNDS 1i

 

Norman Rockwell drawing by courts»: of
Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company

Sputniks and Leis

Put on your space suits, fasten your helmets, and prepare
for the countdown. It will soon be time to take off for a
summer in outer space—on the playgrounds. Space is one
of today’s most prevalent themes for everything. and will
continue to be so. Sputnik will become Fun-nil: on hun-
dreds of playgrounds in the next few months. Are your
plans ready for launching?

Some of the playground rockets are coming down in Ha-
waii, too, and, from there on out, activities will inelude
ukelele playing, singing, Hawaiian dancing, games, mak-
ing straw hula skirts, leis, and [lower crowns and bracelets
in the craft groups. We hear, for instance, that all thc play-
grounds in Tacoma, \Vashington, are planning to carry thc
Hawaiian tliemc this year. Have you considered it?

Recnmrms

.CTION 1960

Scooting

o In Hammond, Indiana, our summer schedule for each
playground includes a penny carnival to be held some time
during July or August. Over the past few years, our leaders
have tried pony rides, pushcart rides, etcetera. Now, motor
scooters have become popular and we purchased one that
could be taken from playground to playground to be used
at the carnivals. Needless to say, it was extremely popular.
Each playground used the machine as a money maker for its
carnival, charging ten cents a ride.

In regard to controlling the rides, and the individuals
driving, the car was geared so that it would go about ten
miles per hour. It has a clutch that must be engaged at all
times before the car will move, thus enabling children as
young as eight to operate it without danger. Another ar-
rangement that helps control the operation is that the car
has seats for two, so if one child does not want to drive, he
can ride with someone who does. It is surprising how well
this works.

It is against the law to operate scooters on the streets in
our city, so we have arranged with the police to r0pe off an
area for a given number of hours so that we may be free
from traffic and police interference. This is important be-
cause it lets the children know there are laws prohibiting
scooters, and that they are complying with this law. We,
as a department, have not sponsored any races, nor do we
intend to do s0.—-—JOHN HIGGINS, Administrator, Board of
Parks and Recreation, Hammond, Indiana.

0 In Newington, Connecticut, Clem Lemire, superintendent
of recreation, has just terminated a successful program
along the above lines, called “Piston Poppers,” in which the
youngsters made their own motorized, four-wheeled carts
from old power lawnmowers. The Connecticut Safety Com-
mission went on record announcing opposition to miniature
motor-vehicle contests and racing events for young children.
The “safe-driving education” aspects of such an activity are
being vigorously challenged. Mr. Lemire writes the Na-
tional Recreation Association, “Although our program was
never classified as a ‘racing program,’ we do not want to
start a controversy. We will reluctantly curtail Operation
even though we have enjoyed two years of' success.”

A number of other communities have found that, with
one thing leading to another, the speed aspect of these pro-
grams gathers momentum, so to speak, and becomes so in-
triguing that the practice of safety measures becomes a
real problem and the program hazardous in the long run.
Some power-driven carts have been known to reach a speed
of thirty-five miles an hour, or over—too much for a child.

APRIL 1960

Books on Summer Playgrounds

Our storytelling program on the playgrounds of Spring-
field, Missouri, needed to be strengthened. Therefore, Jim
Ewing, dircctor of parks and recreation, and Leroy Fox,
city librarian, worked out a plan to make reading a part
of the summer recreation program.

A park board truck was rebuilt into a bookmobile, and
the library supplied it with seven hundred volumes. A sec-
tion of the bookmobile was devoted to books related to
each week’s playground theme. The children selected their
books and reported on and reviewed them during story hour
on the playground. They also handed in a written record
if they wanted to participate in the summer reading club.
If they reported on five books during the summer they re-
ceived a reading club pin and certificate. These were given
out at the Annual Park Day the final week of the program.
Circulation of the books for the summer reached eighty-two
hundred. Though the children were not registered, almost
all the books were returned.

A most unusual feature of the bookmobile was a 161nm
movie projector installed in the front seat of the truck. This
projected the movies into a mirror, which then reflected
them onto a screen built on the back door of the truck. The
children sat behind the truck to watch. The movies, both
entertaining and educational, followed the week’s theme,
lasted ten to twenty minutes.

A local library staff member was assigned to the park
playground staff for the summer and was responsible for
this program. The bookmobile visited twenty-two play-
grounds weekly. This was definitely a plus in new activities
added to the Springfield Playground Program during the
summer of l959.—BETTY MILLER, Director of Recreation,
Springfield, Missouri.

The Human Touch in Playgrouud Direction

These suggestions are made by someone who cares for
kids. They are a series of ideas, taken out of context, from
letters sent by Mrs. Kay Brook to Wade Magrum, recrea-
tion superintendent in Jasper Place, Alberta, Canada. Mrs.
Brook served as a playground director and is obviously
a keen observer sympathetic to the needs of the children.

. . . Permanent equipment is a futile hope, but I should
enjoy very much seeing every swing in our playground melt-
ed down and made into horizontal and climbing bars. I feel
very strongly about swings. They hear the same relation-
ship to creative play that coloring books do to creative art
—-that is, swings foster sterility of expression, repression of
creativeness, and a passive, unimaginative attitude to play.

. I should like to see at least four sets of jungle-gym
or horizontal-bar sets, or climbing sets. I realize that these
items are very expensive. However, effective substitutes can
be worked out by using “junk”—-—for example, old concrete
sewer pipes, cemented in varying heights and connected
with cemented old steel rods.

. . . Tiny children would love some really huge blocks of
wood, in various interesting shapes, sanded and painted,
that could be hauled around, built, sat on, climbed on, and
jumped over. A great, big concrete checkerboard, with
pushable checkers, would probably add to the fun. arm-+-

155

. . . . The most popular art craft on our playground [last]
year is mask-and-puppet making from asbestos mixed with
stick-fast dry paste. We found that one hundred pounds is
barely enough. . . . got ours for about three dollars from
a wholesale roofing firm. It’s quite common stuff, and is
called “shorts.” Even mixed with water, it’s nice and clean.
The children made some fabulous masks.

. . . Twelve-year-old girls are so helpful, they nearly drive
me nuts. I believe that other leaders have discovered this
phenomenon. In addition, they have a tendency to get
crushes on “teacher,” and if two of them are present at the
same time, Teacher is loved to pieces, and can’t move for
her eager and madly jealous little helpers. I’ve never had
more than two at a time, thank heaven.

. . . If a twelve-year-old boy is the only boy of his age
on the playground, and the other children are small folk,
this boy has a very good time doing action songs. If one
other boy arrives, they sit up on the swing frames and make

funny remarks at everybody. If more than two twelve-year-
old boys are present, the gang wouldn’t join in Rig-a-dig-
jig “if you paid us a million, trillion dollars.”

. . . Safety rules: Too arbitrary. Telling a wide-awake
eleven-year-old, who is bursting to set challenges for him-
self, that he can’t go up the slide backwards, that he can’t
climb the swing-frames, that he can’t stand on his head on
the swing-seat and swing, is asking for him to put his
considerable powers of ingenuity for torture to make the
leader’s life for the next few hours hell-among-the-trees. Of
course, children love rules—the more and the more com*
plicated, the happier they are to try and break them. Also,
rules make them feel very secure. Then they know someone
loves them. However, rules that strangle a dynamic child’s
own natural urges merely iill him with a gnawing ache to
get back at the “old lady” who is squashing him. . . . Con-
densed with permission from Leisure, October 1959. #

 

UNIQUE SPRAY POOL

 

In May 1958, the city of Stockton, California, dedicated
a combination spray and wading pool in McKinley Park.
Built by the South Stockton Lions Club and the city parks
and recreation department, the pool represented an invest-
ment of approximately $3,000 and actually cost the city
about 3800. Ten yards of concrete were given to the Lions
Club by Stockton Building Materials and all other materials
were donated by club memhers or secured by them. Thirty-
two club members, working under the direction of president
Allen Dexter and Hap Crowl, dug the hole, which might he
considered shallow to all but those doing the digging. Men
from the city crews, under direction of Emil Seifert, direc-
tor of parks and recreation, built the forms and finished the
concrete.

The pool has a diameter of thirty feet, a minimum depth
of five inches and a maximum depth of fourteen inches. The
width of the deck, which slopes toward the pool, varies from
eight feet to approximately ten feet. The pool is filled by a
pipe leading from the main water supply at tho spray and
drinking fountain area into the side wall of the pool. Flow
into the pool is controlled by a valve in a box located in the
spray area. There is a sand trap at the center of the pool

156

and a simple overflow outlet in the side wall. The pool itself
has been painted a light bloc and the walls in pastel shades.

The pool is surrounded hy a low wall, which acts as a
divider between the pool and surrounding play areas and
also provides a place for adults and youngsters to sit. It
also gives the pool a certain amount of protection at night.
The wading pool is close enough to the swimming pool to
allow for general supervision by the guards or other city
personnel. When the weather is very hot, or the pool is
crowded, the spray may be turned on, adding to the young-
sters’ enoyment. As use of the pool slackcns, or if the wind
comes up, thc spray is turncd off.

The pool was oliicially dedicated last May, with speeches
and appropriate credit to those individuals who had made
the pool possible.

Accepting for the city were the metropolitan parks and
recreation commissioner A. J. “Bart” Dentoni and tho Hon-
orable F. L. Bitterman, acting mayor. Within three minutes
after thc pool was opened and the water turned on by Joe
Seklecki of the park dcpartmcnt, children of the area “ac-
cepted” thc pool joyonsly and moistly—as befits a wading

and spray pool. #

RECREATION

Maze for wheelchairs provides a real challenge,
but does not faze the children as they whiz by.

This setup gives sense of security as youngsters
can grasp bars below and above them at all times.

Equipment must arouse a spirit of atl-

venture, yet not be too frightening.

“WATCH ME
CLIMB

THE
MOUNTAIN”

APRIL 1960

 
 
 
 
 
 

Fun house is spread out to prevent any
feeling of being cramped or boxed in.

“It’s a house!”

“I’m a bird!”

Children’s voices ripple happily over
the playground at Rancho del Valle in
California’s San Fernando Valley.
Their shouts express the special sense
of joyous freedom they find on this
playground, maintained by the Crippled
Children’s Society of Los Angeles Coun-
ty, designed specifically to encourage
imaginative and creative play. The
layout offers broad play possibilities.
Standard equipment has been reorgan-
ized to give handicapped children a feel-
ing of freedom bolstered with a sense of
security while they explore new avenues
of play. It also offers opportunities for

Learning to navigate “bridges and tan-
nels,” a child loses fear of slopes.

normal and handicapped children to
play together. The equipment is ar-
ranged to accommodate wheelchairs,
crutches, and braces. The playground
is the happy brainchild of Jack Lear,
executive director of the county’s Center
for Crippled Children and Adults. De-
signer Dave Aaron did the site planning
and arrangement of equipment and am-
bulatory devices.

With their exhilaration in grapplinor,
clamhering. and scrambling. through
their play, the children
achieve a new sense of self-esteem, de-

successful

velop a new attitude towards themselves,
are motix ated to attempt the untried,

it

and glory in difficult attainment. g;

137

RECREATION and

 

DELINQUENCY

Does organized recreation prevent juvenile misbehavior?

EXT TO THE international situation and the constant
N interest in the latest political developments, there is

perhaps no other issue that attracts more discussion,
more Sunday supplement stories, more editorials than the
question of juvenile delinquency in the United States.

While there may be a rare variation, the general picture
these statements, editorials, television programs, and word-
of-mouth discussions present is a discouraging, depressing
image of the young people of America rapidly degenerating
into a mob of unruly, violent, disorderly teen-agers. A
peculiar emotion seems to develop whenever adults take to
the soapbox or editorial page to discuss juvenile delin-
quency. Nothing seems to irritate adults more than irrev-
erent or disrespectful adolescents. Words like “teen-age
mobsters,” “hoodlums,” “ferocious wolf packs,” and other
similarly endearing terms have become standard copy in
most accounts of juvenile misbehavior.

The role of recreation in preventing, or alleviating, ju-
venile delinquency is and has been questionable. The pros
and cons are violently opposed. There has been a general
assumption that providing adequate recreation facilities for
youth is, in its broadest sense, preventive in keeping young-
sters out of trouble. Many community programs have been
deliberately trying to “prevent juvenile delinquency.” This
has been a mistake. Recreation should be an end in itself.
The entire community should have the opportunity for good
recreation experiences for the joy and satisfaction they
bring. These activities do not have to be coupled with a
vague generalization that they might “prevent juvenile de-
linqueney." There is no objective evidence that a play-
ground or recreation program in itself has prevented any
great amount of juvenile misbehavior. But first let me sup-
ply some background for this discussion.

In the midst of all this barrage of statements about the
present juvenile members of society, it is truly amazing how

 

DR. KINDELSPERCER is executive o§icer of the Syracuse U ni-
versity Youth Development Center, New York. He was one
of the Speakers at the 41st National Recreation. Congress
in Chicago last year on this same subject.

158

 

The people will not listen to the plea that the des-
perate needs of youth be met with adequate services.
It is easier to punish. One important requirement
is supervised recreation (italics ours)—sports pro-
grams and Clubhouses that would enable the young-
sters to develop under the watchful eyes of trained
personnel.—The Reverend C. Kilmer Myers, vicar,
for seven years, of the Lower East Side Mission of
Trinity Episcopal Parish, New York City, after a
serious outbreak of teen—age gang violence in that
neighborhood last August.

little is actually known about the real extent of the problem
the nature of its origin, or the ways in which it seems t
persist in our society. Everyone seems to have an answe
to the problem of juvenile delinquency. The police “don’
crack down enough,” “the (lo-gooders” are too soft or
“hoodlums”———these and other statements flow from the li .
of citizens in all walks of life. This is part of the problem:
everyone has an opinion about the problem of delinquene.
but has very little concrete idea what’s involved in doi ;.
something about it.

 

AN INCREASING number of social scientists and other
have studied or are studying the problem, and the in

formation gathered shows a certain degree of consistency
We know a great deal about this phenomenon, but we stil
do not have one single theory, which has been tested an
proved, to explain satisfactorily all those types of juvcnil
behavior. calleddelinquencies.

Thea-"prioblj‘éin'is made more complex because delinquenc
is  of both individual behavior on the part 0
yoringijpeoiile' and the amount of community tolerance o
acceptginee “(iii the part of adults in the community. Th
samc'ii‘ct, sit-ch as breaking windows, may be tolerated i
one coiijnnunity, where the child’s family will make rcstitr
tion. lin another, this act might mean calling police am
charging the child with juvenile delinquency.

Most .eholars in the field who have studied the probler
of juvenile behavior in recent years, generally agree up

RECREATIO

Action in a teen-league softball game
in Euclid, Ohio. Recreation should
be an end in itself and not be coupled
with the generalization that it

might “prevent juvenile delinquency.”

Kenneth \V. Kintlelsperger

certain facts. In the first place, there is a marked difference
between boys and girls in the extent to which they get into
diHiculty with the law. Approximately five times as many
boys as girls come to the attention of local police systems
for various acts of misbehavior. We also know that, al-
though some children begin to show delinquent behavior at
an early age, it remains relatively rare until the ages of
thirteen through seventeen. Several studies indicate the
peak of behavior difficulties, in terms of apprehension by
: police, occurs somewhere between the fourteenth and fif-
teenth year. Most offenders appearing before police officers
seem to overcome their difficulties and do not reappear.
We also know that there is a higher proportion of chil-
dren living in cities or concentrated urban areas who get
into difliculty than those who come from suburban and rural
settings. Some studies have indicated an increase in the
suburban and rural types of delinquent behavior, but this
.is still only a small proportion of total youngsters in diHi-
culty. There are also quite marked differences in the types
of offenses committed by youngsters living in suburban or
semirural areas than those living in concentrated urban
areas. The city’s size also seems to have some relationship,
the larger cities having a higher concentration of organized
gangs than medium-sized smaller cities. Not too many stud-
ies have been made of delinquency rates in relation to city
size, but there seems to be some evidence that the rate tends
to diminish correspondingly to the decrease in city size.

Even within the city itself, there are marked differences
in certain areas. Some census tracts will have a rate ten or
fifteen times higher in proportion to youth population than
other tracts. Depressed areas consistently produce an in-
ordinately higher rate of delinquency than areas of a higher
socio-economic status. Whichever racial or nationality
group occupies the lower socio-economic rung at any par-
ticular time seems to produce a greater number of children
who get into difficulty with the law.

Even the above information suffers from the fact that
it is based upon a system of reporting by various law en-
orcement groups, with a consequent high degree of unreli-
bility. Delinquency rates can be influenced by a number

   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
   
  
  
 

APRIL 1960

 

.
r 1h
z; ,

of factors, primarily the attitude of the community or of the
police enforcement agencies. At any given time, when an
order for a crackdown comes, juvenile delinquency rates

increase. If there is more tolerance of deviant behavior,
the rate goes down.

MANY DEPARTMENTS of recreation have become increas-

ingly concerned about the role they might play in help-
ing to reduce troublesome behavior in their community in
a prescribed and organized fashion. This is not something
to be entered into casually or with any assumption that
mere extension of existing services will meet the particular
needs of the more troublesome youth. Sometimes, the con-
tinuation of traditional recreation activities in difficult areas
can actually increase the opportunity for youngsters to par-
ticipate in delinquent activities. In a great many ways de-
linquency is recreation (the wrong kind) , but certain other
concrete procedures have to be adopted if a recreation pro-
gram is to meet a particular community’s need in reducing
troublesome behavior.

In the first place, any recreation program particularly
geared to this type of area must be free to adapt its program
to meet the needs of these youngsters. In a large urban
center this implies working with street gangs in nontradi-
tional settings ( see Page 162). It calls for small group ac-
tivities, with decreased emphasis on mass activities. It
means experimental use of difierent types of recreation
activities, such as programs involving automobiles and par-
ticipation in work-camp experiences. Many of these activi-
ties must be carried on away from the traditional commu-
nity center or recreation facility.

In the second place, there has to be distinct consideration
given to special leadership. Workers going into high-delin-
quency areas need additional training in understanding
group process, handling aggressive behavior, and an ability
to function in potentially dangerous situations. These abil-
ities are more closely related to the kinds of training re-
ceived by social workers. Training in itself, however, is not
the whole answer. Personalities who can operate effectively
in these settings must also be very carefully selected. awn—r-

159

Finally, this kind of recreation program has to be care-
fully integrated into the total community services, on a
planned basis. This involves frequent consultation with
such groups as police officers, social workers, and neighbor-
hood organizations. This also implies some conscious plan
of interagency cooperation so that emergencies may be
handled in a constructive way. A planned program of rec-
reation services in a highly delinquent area must involve a
large degree of this kind of cooperation.

All this adds up to the rather blunt statement that if a
recreation department or agency wants to get involved in a
serious program related to the specific problem of reducing
troublesome and delinquent behavior, it should do it with
its eyes open and with a realization of the difficulties in-
volved. A fuzzy-minded approach with rather general goals
often does more harm than good. A recreation program
does not have to be defended in terms of its ability to pre-
vent delinquency. It has a legitimate and intrinsic function
in its own right in the general welfare of the community.
When it does specifically focus on high-delinquency areas,

total community approach to this problem, if some of the
safeguards mentioned above are built into the program.

One final comment seems appropriate. Our knowledge -
about the forces that propel young people into deviant or
delinquent behavior is rapidly increasing. There still is a
lot we do not know. Any organized community program
specifically geared to the reduction of delinquent behavior
has a responsibility to build into its function a dedication
to research and scientific inquiry.

We can achieve this only through organized research in-
volving the use of social scientists as participating team
members in our efforts. Critical evaluation may prove dis—
astrous to some of our traditional assumptions in the rec-
reation field, particularly in this area of working with the
more troublesome and delinquent youngsters. But in the
long pull, careful programing, with honest appraisal of what
we do while we are doing it, will give us a much firmer base
from which to deal with future problems. We may never
eliminate the problem of juvenile delinquency, but we can
make some substantial strides in reducing the amount of

 

 

however, recreation can be a very significant part of the

delinquency. #

 

MORE FUN IN PENN’S WOODS '

The following letter, in the Philadel-
phia Evening Bulletin of January 9,
1960, describes state action which might
well be used as a pattern for other parts
of the country. Contemplation of such
expansion was hrst evidenced in 1958,
when Pennsylvania commissioned the
National Recreation Association to
make a study of existing state recrea-
tion areas. It is reprinted with permis-
sion of the Bulletin.

I WAS HIGIILY pleased to note the edi-

torial entitled “An Appreciated As-
set” . . . describing the skyrocketing use
hcing made of Pennsylvania’s State
Park system.

As you well know, thc interest in out-
door recreation has increascd hy lcaps
and bounds in the past decade. In Penn-
sylvania, alone, it has more than tripled.
One amazing statistic: In the first nine
months of 1959, more peoplc bought
new boats in California than purchased
new automobiles.

To my mind, however, such statistics
reflect more than the simple fact that
Americans likc to have a good time.

For the first time in history, our society
affords enough leisure, high cnough
wages, and good enough transportation
to make it possihlc for everyone to en-
joy the “good life.”

Today’s Americans look for rccrea-
tional facilities, just as thcy look for
good schools and transportation, before
they choose the place they want to livc.
Industry, well aware of this, selects
plant sites where its employecs can find
the parks they want. Parks have bc-
come, thcrefore, a very important part
of the economic picture in Pennsyl-
vania. \Ve must provide these facilities
if we want to remain competitive with
other statcs for new industry and new
growth.

Particularly, we need recreational
areas ringing our great metropolitan
areas. I am extremely gratified, there-
fore, that the legislature has appropri-
ated $2,000,000 for the Department of
Forests and \Vaters to acquire lands
around Pittsburgh and Philadelphia for
regional parks. This is the beginning
of an important policy—a policy that

has yet to be adOplcd in othcr states.
That is, the policy of acquiring land for
parks hcfore it is swallowed up by sub-
urban sprawl. If we do not meet this
need now, the land will not be available
a few years hence and pcople will look
elsewhere for a place to live and indus-
tries will look West for a locality where
they ean cxpand.

I am convinced that wc are on ou
way to meeting the needs around Phil
adclphia. The plan proposcd by my de
partment for the Brandywine Basin i
Chester County which will provid,
whcn constructed, thrce new state park
for the Philadelphia arca, combine(
with the parks that will be built aroum
reservoirs to he proposcd shortly by th
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers for t]
Dclawarc River, will help. But we wi
need more.

It is time that parks, along with man}
olhcr needs, be made an integral pa
of planning for the futurc of thc Phila
delphia metropolitan region.—l’l'lauric
K. Goddard, State Secretary of Forest ‘5
(Q: Waters. Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.

MAY IS SENIOR CITIZENS MONTH

 

160

R l-ICRE.\TIO

 

INSTITUTE ON PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION

W. C. Sutherland

I FOUR of the nation’s foremost per-
sonnel specialists will deal with the
recreation executive’s most important
problem, “Personnel Administration,”
at the fifth Annual National Institute
on Recreation Administration, Septem-
ber 24-25 at the Shoreham Hotel, Wash-
ington, D. C. This will be held the
weekend prior to the 42nd National
Recreation Congress so executives will
have time to attend Congress sessions.
Executives attending past institutes
have chosen this year’s theme wisely
when we consider that three-fourths or
more of the recreation budget may go
for salaries and wages. The subject
takes on serious, sobering and signifi-
cant meaning when we realize some ex-
ecutives claim that nine-tenths or more
of their day-to-day problems deal with
personnel. With one-third of the total
tax dollar going to pay the cost of em-
ployees at all government levcls, the
public is demanding increasingly that
executives be trained in modern man-
agement and be highly skilled in human
' relations and the high art of leadership.
The Institute will deal with many

important aspects of personnel includ-
ing:

 
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
    
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
   

LEADERSHIP—New concepts of leader-
ship, human relations, motivation, su-
pcrvision, leadership development.

Jon EVALUATION AND PAY ADMINISTRA-
TION—Job design, organization of
work, job analysis, job descriptions,
standards of performance, evaluations
of pay plans.

SELECTION AND PLACEMENT—Recruit-
selection, placement, promotion,
proper utilization of staff, merit system
forms, other central systems, depart-
ental systems.

 

ME. SUTHERLAND is director of the Rec-
reation Personnel Service of the Na-
ional Recreation Association.

. PRIL 1960

STAFF DEVELOPMENTS—On-the-job
training, off-the-job education, coach-
ing, performance standards, employee

evaluation, appraisal and motivation
counseling.

KENNETH O.WAENER will cover selec-
tion, placement, and personnel systems.
He is director of
the Public Person-
nel Association;
editor of Public
Personnel Review,
Personnel News,
and Personnel
llfan,‘ vi-chairman of the public-serv-
ice committee of the President’s Com-
mittee for Employment for the Physi-
cally Handicapped; and member of the
American Committee on Inter-Munici-
pal Cooperation, and the Conference on
Public Service.

  

His academic posts
have included chairmanship of the De-
partment of Political Science, Univer-
sity of Tennessee; and lectureships at
American University, Florida State
University, University of Chicago, and
Northwestern University.

The session on job evaluation and
pay administration will have LOUIS J.
 KROEGER, execu-
tive vice-president
of Griffenhagen-
Kroeger, Inc., man-
agement consult-

  

ants, San Francis-
co. His former po-
sitions include those of consultant to
the federal Bureau of the Budget and
the U.S. Civil Service Commission; ex-
ecutive officer of California State Per-
sonnel Board; and personnel director,
city of Berkeley, California. He has
taught public administration and per-
sonnel administration in the Graduate
School, University of California; Grad-
uate School, U.S. Department of Agri-

culture; and University of California
Extension Division.

CECIL E. GOODE will serve as instruc-
tor for the session on leadership. Mr.

Goode is interim
executive director,
National Civil

Service League;
author of Person-
nel Research F ron-

tiers; and editor of
Personnel Administration, bimonthly

magazine of the Society for Personnel
Administration. He was staff director
of the Second Hoover Commission’s
Committee on Special Personnel Prob-
lems of the Department of Defense.

 

Staff development will be interpreted
by O. GLENN STAIIL, director of the Bu-
‘ ' ' reau of Programs

and Standards,
U.S. Civil Service
Commission; pro-
fessor of public
administration

  

at
American Univer-
sity; and author of Public Personnel
Administration, a popular publication
among personnel directors and leading
textbook in its field. An outstanding
speaker and leader in the personnel
area, he taught government at New
York University and has been a visiting
lecturer at six other universities.

 

The National Recreation Associa-
tion’s National Advisory Committee on
Recruitment, Training, and Placement
is sponsoring the Institute, to be held
the weekend prior to the 42nd National
Recreation Congress. Admission is by
advance registration only; enrollment
is limited. Inquiries about the Institute
should be directed to W. C. Sutherland,
director, NRA Recreation Personnel
Service, 8 W’est 8th Street, New York

11. s;
161

    

'llllcll

“ROVING LEADERS"
EXTEND OUR REACH

Interesting experimental program in the
42nd National Recreation Congress city——
Washington, D. C. The Congress will be
held Sept. 25-29 at the Hotel Shoreham.

Edward H. Thacker

HE AGENCIES AND citizens of
Washington, D. C., like those in
most large cities, have been in-

creasingly concerned with the problem
of juvenile delinquency. Several pro-
grams have been instituted in an effort
to deal with this problem. In 1953 the
district commissioners created the Com-
missioners’ Youth Council, an organ-
ization of dedicated citizens, who, with
the heads of district departments con-
cerned with youth, sought to develop
programs to reduce and control juve-
nile delinquency in the area. Through
use of area boards representing neigh-
borhood volunteers and professional
workers, this program reaches the grass
roots of the community.

Several private voluntary agencies,
with the help of special grants, organ-
ized pilot projects in critical areas us-
ing the “detached worker” approach.
Although helpful, these programs were

MR. THACKER is a recreation analyst in
the District of Columbia Recreation De-
partment. (See his article “Research in
Action,” RECREATION, January 1958.)

162

abandoned for lack of funds. The youth
council then turned to the district rec-
reation department for assistance. The
council wanted a detached worker for
assignment in “Washington’s wickedest
precinct.” After careful consideration,
the department devel0ped a program it
believed fell legitimately into the realm
of recreation service.

A recreation leader with a thorough
knowledge of the problems of youth in
the neighborhood was assigned to this
project on an experimental basis. He
was instructed to use recreation activi-
ties and leadership techniques as an op-
ening wedge to acceptance by the
groups in the area. The area board and
all related agencies serving the neigh-
borhood gave their support. It was soon
evident that this approach was effective
and the department sought and ob-
tained funds to broaden the program
into other neighborhoods.

'Washington’s detached workers are
called “roving leaders.” The name im-
plies their function: to rove, to seek out,
to meet away from an organized center,

to serve those youths who do not fre-

quent the public or private recreation

agencies in the city. Such a concept in- I
eludes not only the delinquent and pre-
delinquent, but also the shy, retiring,
introverted youths who are just as
much in need of constructive activities.

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
  
 
   
  
 
  
  
   
  

So FAR the roving leaders have con-

centrated on the delinquent and po-
tential delinquent. They have contacted
most of the known groups or gangs in
the city and have identified those which
require more immediate action. As
rapport is established and confidence
gained, the leaders have often redirect-
ed the activities and attitudes of these
groups.

In addition to direct contact with the
youngsters, the roving leader frequent-
ly visits parents, discussing home and
family problems, and relating these
problems to behavior. Referral of par-
cuts and children to agencies equipped
to help solve these problems is a regu-
lar occurence.

Administratively, the roving leaders
are under the supervision of the assist-
ant director of the neighborhood cen-
ters division. This is the program
division which conducts recreation pro-
grams at neighborhood playgrounds
and recreation centers. Weekly staff
meetings provide a forum for the ex-
change of information and discussion
of problems and teelmiques. A psychol-
ogist is available for consultation on
the teelmique of dealing with especially
diliicnlt behavior problems.

The roving leader works very closely
with regional and unit directors so they
may know of his activities and ex-
change information which may be 0
mutual help. Roving leaders have ac-
cess to all playground facilities after
regular hours for use by their groups.
Generally, there is a minimum of inter
mixing between these groups and th
regular participants in a recreation pro-
gram. \thn these groups are ready,
the roving leader and unit leader wor
together in the transition back into th
regular playground program.

One of the roving leader’s princip
responsibilities is to maintain close r
lationships with all community agcn
eics concerned with youth. Sincc tl
area boards of the youth council rep
resent a reliable cross-section of inter

RECREATIO.

 

arcia Allen (left) checks training
schedule with Mrs. Kay Caul, direc-
tor of neighborhood centers. Mrs.

Allen is believed to be the coun-
try’s first woman roving gang leader.

ests in youth, these boards are most
helpful. Some boards have a “gangs
committee” and gather useful informa-
tion for the roving leaders. These con-
tacts often provide special services for
the groups and individuals with whom
the roving leader is working: tickets for
athletic events, movies, and so on.
Sometimes access is provided to private
organizations for use of their facilities,
such as bowling or gymnasium, or these
organizations donate supplies and
equipment for use by the groups: a
radio or record player for a dance,
refreshments, bus transportation, uni-
forms.

The youth-aid division of the police
department is also a willing ally. There
is constant but confidential exchange of
information related to identification of
gangs, their leaders, hangouts, prob-
' lems, and possible solutions. Care is
taken that problem youths do not asso-
ciate the roving leader with the police
to the extent that he is no longer ac-
cepted by them as trustworthy.

A similar relationship is maintained
with social workers from the juvenile
court, welfare department, and attend-
ance officers from the public schools.
Referrals are frequently made to ap-
propriate offices of the public employ-
ment service and clinics of the health

APRIL 1960

department. Although roving leaders
are not fully trained counselors, they
can frequently discover the basic prob-
lems of their youths and refer them to
the proper agency for solution. The
employment problem is often encoun-
tered and, at the request of the recrea-
tion department, the local employment
service has assigned a staff member to
handle requests for tests and placement
of persons referred by the roving
leaders.

SELECTION AND TRAINING of roving

leaders is especially important.
They must have strong character and
possess those personal qualities that ap-
peal to youth: they must: be understand-
ing, democratic, reliable, trustworthy,
and friendly. It is necessary that a
roving leader have a sound background
in recreation leadership techniques. Ac-
tual experience in working with youth
is better than education alone. Educa-
tion is important, however, with special
emphasis on behavioral psychology, so-
ciology, and group work.

Once appointed, the roving leader
gets a comprehensive training course
in methods and techniques, his relation-
ships with the department and other
staff members, and with necessary re-
sources in the community. Conferences
with or visits to welfare, police, juvenile
court, and other agencies are vital parts
of this training.

Since the initial experimental assign-
ment of a roving leader in 1956, the
program has become a topic of interest
to all youth-serving agencies in the city.
Many area boards have sought one for
their neighborhoods. Public officials
have recognized the value of this pro-
gram and have actively supported the
department’s requests for additional
funds. Congressional appropriations

committees have indicated their en-
dorsement by approving funds for ad-
ditional leaders, so today there are
seven roving leaders serving a broad
segment of the city.

Recently a female roving leader was
appointed since some gangs have their
female counterparts. It was thought
that a female leader working with the
male leader might be an effective team,
so the department has added what it be-
lieves to be the first such woman leader
in the country. The department thus
has a “roving” roving leader who
moves from neighborhood to neighbor-
hood as needed. This woman leader is
also concerned with preventive mea-
sures, hoping to uncover a girl’s latent
antisocial behavior before a pattern is
established. This requires personal at-
tention to each girl individually as well
as to a group of which she may be a
part. Time alone will judge the effec-
tiveness of this plan.

RESULTS ARE NOT easy to measure.

There are too many factors to be
considered, all interrelated, to permit
an honest appraisal of success or fail-
ure. Rather than claiming success for
its own program, the department he-
lieves that any reduction in delinquen-
cy rate or gang incidents is the result
of coordinated action of youth-serving
agencies, both public and private, and
the dedicated interest and concern of
many citizens serving actively in many
capacities.

Just as delinquency has no single
cause, neither has delinquency preven-
tion any single solution. (See also
“Recreation and Delinquency,” Page
158.) The success of a preventive pro-
gram rests with a united approach with
all forces in the community meeting the
problem head on. #

 

The ey’orts of adolescents to achieve maturity plus the
e [feats of resistance they meet in themselves and others
combine to produce great confusion for them. It is no
wonder that they are mixed up and aimless. . . . They
are eager for whatever adult privileges they can get,
but are not so eager to accept the responsibilities that
go with them. Young people are great seekers after
pleasure but have strong aversions to work. or anything
that limits or disciplines their desires.——-REUEL L. HOWE
in The Creative Years (Seabury Press, 1959).

 

163

SieboIt H. Frieswyk

Cultural C

many years the basic philosophy of the Rich-
mond, Virginia, Department of Recreation and
Parks. The application of this philosophy has led to the
development, expansion, and stability of its programs, pro-

car [‘0 HELP THOSE who help themselves” has been for

jects, and consultation services to organized groups. In
particular, it has been demonstrated through the organiza-
tion of and assistance to the Federated Arts of Richmond.
All too often municipal recreation is baseball and basket-
ball, games and crafts, folk dancing and social dancing. In
Richmond, recreation services offered by the recreation de-
partment include assistance by the department staff as well
as lending materials to local organized nonprofit groups.
Such assistance, given through the division of special scrv-
ices and events of the Richmond Department of Recreation
and Parks since 1947, also led, in 1949, to the establishment
of a Committee for the Coordination of Cultural Entertain-
ment. This subsequently changed its name to the Federated
Arts of Richmond and is recognized as the arts council for
this metropolitan community of 385,000.

Federated Arts is an organization composed of nonprofit
organized groups in the Richmond area, working and in-
terested in the cultural life of the city. Fields of activity at
present include music, drama, art, dance, and literature.
Active current membership consists of nine musical organ-
izations, ranging from symphony to barbershop; four
drama groups; three art organizations; two dancc societies;
and one literature group. All are actively performing or
exhibiting. In addition, there are eight associate member
groups interested in furthering community cultural life.

The major purpose of Federated Arts is to pcrpetuatc and
strengthen the arts in Richmond. Its methods are varied,
and it maintains a strict policy of artistic neutrality in re-
Iation to its mcmbcr groups, with a guarantee of no inter-
ference in their internal operations. Plans are big and
cxciting and, based on the experiences of other communi-
ties, should result in complete stabilization of the arts in
the hands of the community’s citizens.

The Richmond Department of Recreation and Parks can
take full credit as the parent of Federated Arts. In the latter
stages of World War II two interest groups—one in music
and one in children’s theater—were reactivated and char-

 

MR. FRIESWYK is consultant for the performing arts, Na-
tional Recreation Association.

164

oexistence in

tered. Both organizations asked that the then Division of
Parks and Recreation assist their programs by furnishing
supervision and, often, direction. The division accepted
the invitation because it felt that a vital, citywide interest
in such creative fields is an important and necessary part
of a community’s heritage. - i .

After World War II more groups of similar nature or-
ganized, and some of them turned to the parks and recrea-
tion department for similar assistance. By 1949 scheduling
conflicts were rampant and the eight staff members in the
department’s division of special services and events were
bearing a great deal of the burden. Effective service could
not be given, for example, when two groups scheduled ma-
jor production on consecutive nights. The department also
discovered that members of some of the groups were bcing
caught in a giant squeeze play. Compctition for the time
of some participants was great. and there was ill fceling
regardless of the participant’s choice of activities. Audi-
enccs also were disturbed. A spate of cultural activities
one month and a drought thc next month produccd an un-
balanced diet and strained pocketbooks. The ccouomic pic-
ture of local groups was indeed erratic for no one group
could count on a sizable audicnce. Consequcntly. some
smaller groups found it necessary to disband almost before
they had started.

Somcthing had to be done, and the Department of Rcc-
reation and Parks took the initiative. It called together the
presidents of music and drama groups—schools, colleges.
eonuncrcial and nonprofit—and suggested that representa-
tives of the groups meet togcther several times a year to list
production dates and resolve possible conflicts. The depart-
ment offered to mimeograph the schedule as a calendar of

events so that groups could have the listings at their finger? _

l.

lips as a guide when they wished to add or change dates of
their productions. Groups were also encouraged to eall at
any time to check the master schedule. Commercial inter-
ests said that availability of artists controlled thcir pro-
grams, but that they would list their dates with the depart-
ment so that others might work around them. Schools and

 

colleges fclt that since their programs primarily concerned "

their institutions, they should not be included.

Nonprofit groups rcadily agreed to the proposal and,
looking to the future, suggested that art and dance be in-
cluded. They also selected the name of the Committce for
the Coordination of Cultural Entcrtainment in Richmond.

Recmmnos

 

{Richmond

and appointed a music critic of a local newspaper as chair-
man. Scheduling continued, as it does today, but its effect
has been much more far-reaching than solving the problem
of conflict of dates. It did not happen all at once, however.

The department of recreation realized that if the un-
healthy competition, suspicion, and jealousy were overcome,
the arts in Richmond could become a compelling influence.
It also realized that this would be a long process; nothing
could be forced; there must be a natural overcoming of
these obstacles.

EARLIER MEETINGS of the Committee for the Coordination
of Cultural Entertainment in Richmond were marked
by a rescrve and coolness on the part of some of the rep-
resentatives. But by 1952 some of the suspicion had been
overcome, and after a listing of dates one evening a casual
conversation started about some of the groups’ more obvi-
ous problems. Before the meeting adjourned it had been
agreed that a survey of member groups be made, that the
committee become an organization with a charter and by-
laws, and a temporary president and secretary were elected.
The secretary was a staff member of the recreation depart-
ment. The department was also requested to mimeograph
the survey form and compile the results.

This survey included such questions as program, expendi-
tures including cost of professional leadership, clerical help
and rentals, methods of financing, major problems, long-
term plans and objectives, and whether or not the organiza-
tion was solvent at the end of the previous season. Results
indicated that nine out of twelve groups needed a place of
some sort. Of the three groups which did not need a place,
two were art museums. The third rented space on the third
floor of a downtown store. The other nine groups needed
workshops, rehearsal space, meeting places, and even per-
formance space that would be available when the group
needed it.

A second common problem concerned finances. Groups
were not presenting the programs they felt were needed and
desired because they lacked sufficient funds. Some of the
groups, because of the caliber and scale of their work, had
no margin of profit to cover unexpected expenses.

In 1953 the name of The Federated Arts of Richmond
was selected, and each of the groups which had been meet-
ing together was given the Opportunity to join the new
organization and elect a representative to the board of di-

APRIL 1960

How a recreation department
can help community groups to
help themselves in stabilizing the arts.

rectors. The temporary president and secretary became two
of the regular officers, and headquarters was established at
the department of recreation and parks. Federated Arts also
decided that a survey of existing and perhaps available fa-
cilities in Richmond should be made to see if at least a part
of the needs for space could be satisfied and rental costs
reduced.

The second survey showed that to renovate and adapt any
existing available facility for use by Federated Arts groups
would be as eXpensive as constructing an entirely new and
more ideal facility. Thus, thoughts turned to fund raising.
Several things happened, however, to postpone this for a
while.

The first was an announcement that the Virginia Museum
of Fine Arts had received a bequest for the construction of
a theater wing. The museum, quite active in Federated Arts,
stated this wing would be used exclusively by the museum
for a state program and would not be available for use by
Richmond’s groups as such. This was, of course, thoroughly
understood by Federated Arts, but it was felt that Rich-
mond’s average citizens, who must necessarily be asked to
contribute to the construction of a Federated Arts Center,
would not understand until the museum’s program was
really in action.

The second factor was the presence in Richmond at that
time of a professional fund-raising organization which ad-
vised that Federated Arts and its individual member groups
needed a very full publicity program for at least one year
so all citizens would become more aware of the organiza-
tions, their programs, and needs.

Again, sitting around the table in the recreation office,
it was agreed that publicity was the first thing. Someone
mentioned the “adventure days” of the thirties, and imagi-
nation was fired. The first annual festival of arts was thus
evolved to make the groups’ programs known to the general
public. A week of free programs, during which each per-
forming group gave a forty-five-minute demonstration of
its type of work, was coordinated, supervised, and stage-
managed by the recreation and parks department.

a. FEW WEEKS later Richmond was asked to participate in
a one-day regional arts council conference in Winston-

Salem, North Carolina. and to describe how it had managed
to coordinate the local groups into the festival of arts peace-
fully. The secretary attended this conference and explained

165

that the municipal recreation department had been responsi-
ble for coordinating the festival, and that there had been
no problems. The Winston-Salem meeting opened greater
doors to Federated Arts for it became aware of many other
possiblc features and aims for its organization.

For many years the recreation department had coordi-
nated and directed a series of pop concerts at the Carillon,
Virginia’s World War I memorial. The State Department
of Conservation and Economic Development had sponsored
these concerts and the Recording Industry Trust Fund had
presented one or two concerts in addition. The recreation
department had also sponsored and produced a Sunday
afternoon series of children’s plays in an adoining “ravine”
called Dogwood Dell. The department looked forward to
the day when an amphitheater would be constructed at the
site. But the construction seemed to be a long way off, if thc
planning commission’s recommendations were followed in

sequcnce.

The Richmond-Jamestown Festival Committee, with the
support of cherated Arts, was instrumental in getting the
amphitheater constructed by the city in time for the summer
of the 1957 Jamestown Festival celebrated by all Virginia
communities. When additional funds were made available
through thc committee, Federated Arts agreed to lend its
Festival of Arts name to an eight-week summer program.
Member groups performed on various nights and wcrc
joined in the festival by the pop concert and children’s play
series. The Recording Industry Trust Fund increased the
number of its concerts and the State Department of Con-
servation and Economic Development provided additional
funds so that the bells of the carillon could be played each
night. The entire festival was presented by F ederatcd Arts.
This pattern has continued each summer since 1957, with
a local bank taking thc place of the Richmond-Jamestown
Festival Committee as sponsor. Attendance at thc free pro-
grams during the summer is estimated at about fifty thou-
sand as comparcd to twenty-five hundred for the first festival
presented indoors in the spring.

Federated Arts uscs the recreation department’s mailing
address. Its mimcographing is donc by the department on
stationcry now happily furnishcd by the arts council. Until
July 1959 a staff member, using the title of executive scc-
retary, for'convcniencc of communication, served officially
on office time. July brought a rcorganization of the dcpart-
ment and a promotion to this staff member, so that she now
is the volunteer executive secretary doing most of the work
on her own time. This does not mean that the department
has dropped its assistance to Federated Arts, for clerical
services are still available as well as consultation services
through the new division of central program services.

The arts in the community are also growing, with more
interest being shown on the part of citizens. Attendance
figures arc larger and member groups and possible partici-
pants are more concerned now with stabilizing the picture
than with organizing new groups which duplicate services.
Federated Arts knows that it is closer to realizing some of
its long-range plans, which will help its mcmber groups to
increase in stature and strength as the years go by.

166

THE DAY 18 rapidly approaching when Federated Arts will

initiate fund raising and some type of building pro-
gram. It is on the brink of a limited funds appeal to set up
its own office and professional staff. When this is done, F ed-
erated Arts can offer more vital and continuing services to
its twenty-eight member groups and, depending upon the
requests of the groups, will include central clerical and fil-
ing services, mailing, and publicity as a start, in addition
to the services mentioned earlier. When this day arrives,
the recreation department expects to assume its place as a
mere associate member, but will continue its interest and
helpfulness and, if necessary, guidance.

With an office of its own established, the next step for
Federated Arts should be coordinated or united fund-raising
campaigns to supply needed money to member groups and
to finance the establishment of an arts center containing an
auditorium, studios, rehearsal and meeting rooms, work-
shops, and display area. But Federated Arts is also finding
the time to help in the growth of the arts and of arts councils
throughout the country. In September 1959 arts councils
and about-to-bc arts councils in the three-state area of North
and South Carolina and Virginia met for a conference in
Winston-Salem. The groups present, which included repre-
sentatives of sixteen cities and towns, decided to form a
tristatc arts council. Subsequent committee meetings have
led to some definite plans for the tristate, including a survey
of the arts in each of the three states to determine what is
already in existence. It is a known fact that industry, think-
ing of moving into a new community, looks at the total
picture of the community, and that arts activities are care-
fully scrutinizcd.

T‘IE DIE is already cast for Federated Arts. It knows
that it is the only organized arts council in Virginia.
It knows that at least three other communities in thc state
arc thinking scriously of or are in the process of organizing
arts councils. It definitely wants company from its own
state just as the recreation and parks departmcnt wants
company from other departments in thc arts movcment.

But the tristatc organization is only a part of thc na-
tional arts picture. The annual Junc convention of the
American Symphony Orchcstra Lcaguc has for the past cight
ycars included a simultaneous meeting of and for arts coun-
cils. It is fclt that in the not-too-distant futurc tlIcsc coun-
cils, with the blcssing of the ASOL and sevcral othcr national
associations, will become a separate organization called the
International Arts Council and will provide the mcans by
which thc movement will strengthen even more in Canada
and thc Unitcd States.

Richmond fecls that the arts are important in a commu-
nity and it feels that the recreation profession should acccpt
them as a part of its reSponsibility. It is proud it can say
that it has contributcd some stability to the arts in Rich-
mond. It is convinccd that recreation is bascball and basket-
ball, gamcs and crafts, folk dancing and social dancing, and
music, drama, art and othcr dancc forms, for all ages in the
community including those enthusiasts who havc organized
to hpr themselvcs. #

RECREATION

*WW

I——*— -”v
_-._-

“WAKE UP
AND READ,

YOUNG
AMERICA!”

 

Promote reading along with sports. Start some new project
to stimulate young pe0ple’s reading during National

Library Week, April 3-9, 1960.

THE GREATEST NUMBER of drop-OHS

and drop-outs in reading occur
during the teen years. At four-
teen a boy no longer reads books of
high adventure to which he had been
devoted at ten or the stories of space
travel and books of “plain facts” to
which he had turned his attention at
eleven, twelve, and thirteen. At four-
teen he tells his Boys’ Club librarian
that he has no time to read. Oh, he
reads, but only “for assignments.”
Why has he dropped his voluntary
reading to only a few books a year?
The disclination to read for the pure
joy of it or for personal satisfaction in-
fects far too many teen-agers. We know
that lack of books in the home environ-
ment, absence of an atmosphere condu-
cive to reading, and want of positive
attitudes toward books and reading,
particularly among their peers, are fac-
tors associated with teen-age drop-offs.
For almost a hundred years now (the
Boys’ Club of America movement start-
ed in New England in the 1860’s) , indi-
vidual Boys’ Clubs have been encourag-
ing boys from eight to eighteen to read
by providing books they like in an at-
mosphere where reading was an activity
-——one of the things to do in free time.
The clubs have utilized many money-
raising schemes to buy books in the
past, but last year a new project was
inaugurated that could be utilized by
any recreation department or club in-
terested in building its library and in
inspiring youngsters’ desire to read.

MISS VINTON is director of the Boys’
Clubs of America Publications Service.

APRIL 1960

Last year the Boys’ Clubs of America
were fortunate in having a group of
people undertake a project aimed at
inculcating teen-agers with a taste for
reading. Called “Wake Up and Read,
Young America,” this project involved
a large number of nationwide Boys’
Clubs. A local sponsor was selected to
make the gift presentation to a Boys’
Club, on behalf of the group of donors
of a basic library of fifty paperback
books. These presentations were sched-
uled to take place during National Li-
brary Week or near that date.

Each club alerted newspapers, radio,
and TV stations to the gift, and to the
intent of the project. In every instance,
the club received wholehearted response
from all mass media in the area. A
ceremony was held the day the local
sponsor presented the gift to the Boys’
Club library, and the event was given
all the fanfare accompanying an impor-
tant local sports affair. Sponsors, club
executives, and young readers (as
though they were on varsity teams) got
their pictures in the neWSpaper, heard
their voices over the radio, and saw
themselves on television. Some sixty of
these events took place all over the coun-
try during this period.

What did these ceremonial events do
for reading? They made books and
reading important in each of those com-
munities—not important as culture or
as something valuable ten years hence,
but important to one’s own peers right
here and now. A reader was not some-
one alone and apart; he was recognized
as a participant. And nothing so ap-
peals to the teen-ager as participation.

Iris Vinton

One result of this special project—
and its concomitant fanfare—was the
tremendous rise in reading interest,
not of club books alone, either. Local
libraries reported a rise in books bor-
rowed by teen-age youngsters. Many
clubs said the books from the project
were loaned out almost immediately,
and club leaders and directors were ap-
pealing for more books-—-any kind.

The boys” general reaction may be
summed up in this comment from a six-
teen-year-old: “All of us were standing
around looking through the books on
the table in the library. Some of the
boys started to read, and I did, too. I
took the book home and finished it.”

It was a case of “me too,” for that
boy, and many another, who had often
remarked that he was not much of a
reader and could not get interested in
books. The fact is that he, as well as
many men and women, needs only to
have others do something to want to do
it too. As a teen-ager, however, he is
much more influenced by the approval
or disapproval of his peers than is an
adult.

Reports from clubs everywhere were
enthusiastic about the project. If its
success has any overall meaning what-
soever, it is simply this: a gift of books
made in an important manner to any
youth center will capture their attention
and arouse interest in reading. Donors
might prove hard to get if the gift is
thought of in terms of hundreds of dol-
lars. But when prospective donors are
told that for about twenty dollars they
can purchase a whole library of books
for their favorite youth group and have
all the real enjoyment that goes with
making an important gift, they are not
at all scarce. Civic clubs and groups as
well as individuals seldom have an op-
portunity to give so much for so little.
The average cost of the titles in the
“Wake Up and Read, Young America”
gift library, sent to Boys’ Clubs last
year, was forty cents; the highest priced
book, SE‘VBth:flVC cents. #

For the titles of the fifty paperbacks,
together with their authors and pub-
Iishers, see Page 192.

167

Today’s European. playground
sports, and muscle stretching
grounds, wherein ehildren u.s

  

planned as “building sites” -
amazing technical skill. At C a
hundred small houses with g .

Small spring located on gran
with stones and made into a
their sand castles. Logs and
gronnd is hard surfaced [or
pavilion with. seats serves as
ances. The cooperative play
While there is no nniversall _
how twelve countries on [on

and loeations in. lnzilrling thil

RECREATION

s creative and artistic activities as znuch as games,
mark has progressed from its postwar “junk” play-
rubble and debris for “constructing,” to play areas
ellegeplads). The children continue to display an
gen-Emdrup (left) the children have built about one
These are dismantled and stored during the winter.

    

Wendy Houses (left), displayed at an
exhibition playground in Sweden, were
constructed at different levels over a
sandpit and joined by wooden walks.

This material is reproduced, with per-
mission, from Creative Playgrounds and
Recreation Centers (New York: Frederick

A. Praeger) . Authors are Dr. Alfred Led-

_' ermann of the Swiss Pro J uventute Foun-
l dation and Alfred Trachsel, Zurich city
planner and architect.

i

“All nations play and they
play remarkably alike.”
—J0HAN HUIZINGA.

 

       
 
  
  
    
 

housing project in Switzerland (left) was lined

pool from which the children carry water for
L's are very pOpular. A large part of the play-
games, unobstructed by any equipment. An open
" for mothers and has a stage for perform-
' vas constructed in 1951-55 by voluntary labor.
blueprint for good playgrounds, the authors show
ts have tackled the problent of different sites
ile and imaginative play centers for all children.

I

I'

i
"r
I:

l

'1

APRIL 1960

   

 

r“

J .
..I'
c _ i

 

A Zurich housing development, designed by the municipal
building department, offers a large continuous green belt for
recreation purposes. Its playground (above) is in a sunken
area sheltered by the surrounding buildings. The sandpit con-
tains a tree-airplane. A wading pool consists of eight circles.

Indians and the Wild West excite the German children as much
as their American counterparts. A stretch of wasteland in
lllannheim, Germany, lent itself to a “Red Indian” playground
(left). Contour and vegetation ojjer natural habitat for stalk-
ing games. Large pond is surrounded by rows of stone seats.

Walls of one of the “Red Indian” huts are covered with clay
blocks (below) in which children incise designs. Their ideas
of the American, Indian are certainly free-wheeling and wild.

 

DUNGAREE DAUBERS

 

“Creative expression knows no season” in this
Long Island children’s recreation art program.

Joyce and John McGinn

 

170

Dr. John R. ll crman arrived one day
to drop all his children,

and remained to teach ceramics.

llc labels his own cflorts

in this medium “psychoccramics.”

HE DUNGAREE DAUBERS are a f ree-
T swinging, wildly inventive group
of elementary-school-age chil-
dren in Hewlett, New York, interested
in working in varied art media in a
loosely controlled, creatively stimulat-
ing atmosphere. The program evolved
from Gramma Drama, a workshop in
creative dramatics which Hourishes in
the fall and winter months in the rec-
reation building. As a result of interest
expressed by young participants, whose
creative expression knew no season,
this workshop simply became an art
class utilizing the techniques of Cram-
ma Drama and moved outdoors for the
spring session. From the start, the pro-
gram has been a success and the
amount of effort put into such a pro-
gram is insignificant compared to sat-
isfactions derived and results produced.
Initially, the program was aimed at
first- and second-grade children, but as
the program progressed, more and
more young children were anxious to
participate. On an ordinary Saturday
morning, the size of the group will
range from thirty to seventy-five. Moth-
ers bring the children and end up hand-
ing out supplies. Preschoolers come to
watch or be watched and wind up as
pint-sized Picassos. A local doctor ar-
rived three years ago, chauffeuring his
three children, and is still with us,
teaching the techniques of ceramics to
a vastly enlarged family. An interest-
ing sidelight to Dr. John R. Herman’s
participation is that the public-address
system in the recreation building is
turned on, with the microphone placed
next to the telephone, with a speaker hy
the window, to permit him to receive
emergency phone calls. Once he had to
remove the clay in order to scrub up for
an operation.

MR. MCCINN is director of the depart-
ment of recreation, Union Free School
District No. 14, Hewlett, New York. H e
claims Dungarcc Daubcrs are actually
MRS. MCCINN’S creation, “The tech-
niqucs and teaching procedures . . . all
stem from her and I serve mostly in an
administrative function and . . . muscle
man . . . .” The school district’s rccrca-
tion formula appeared in a doublc-
spread articlc, “Arc Y our School’s Play
Facilities Working Full Time?” in To-
day’s Living, Sunday supplement of The
New York Herald Tribune, 5/24/59.

RECREATION

The program takes place on Saturday
mornings at the recreation building,
rain or shine, calm or windy, indoors or
outdoors, occasionally both. Although
the group started working in paint and
clay, the children will take on any basic
material and their inventiveness knows
no bounds. Wire coat hangers, quanti-
ties of colored paper, scissors, and
string produced mobiles Calder never
dreamed up. White tissue paper, scis-
sors, and a folding and cutting session
sprinkled every window in the building
with snowflakes. Wet newsprint and
colored chalks produced a brand-new
dimension in impressionistic painting.

No restrictions are placed upon the
amount of work produced or time spent
on a creative effort. Emphasis is placed
on individuality and a relaxed atmos-
phere. The two instructors act chiefly
as consultants, thought provokers, idea
encouragers, and general factotums,
I rather than as teachers.

The children enjoy taking them-
selves, their materials, and friends off
to a shady tree where they commune
with art and nature to their hearts’ con-

 
   
  
 
  
    
     
  
   
    
    
  

THE PROGRAM or FEDERAL grants-in-
aid for urban planning was estab-
lished by Section 701 of the Housing
Act of 1954 and is generally known as
“the 701 Program.” It Was substantial-
ly broadened by amendments adopted
in 1959.

Under this program, grants, not ex-
ceeding one half the cost of the work,
may be made to official planning agen-
ies to aid them in preparing plans for
arious types of urban area. The grants
ust be matched by an equal amount of
tate, local, or other nonfederal funds.

As a general rule, grants for planning
in cities, counties, and other localities
of less than fifty thousand population
re made to oHicial state planning agen-
:ies that are authorized by their state
{aws to provide the localities with plan-
1ing assistance.

Cities and counties of fifty thousand
)r more are not eligible f0r grants ex-
:ept on a metropolitan or regional ba-
sis, in which case grants may be made
0 an official state, metropolitan, or
'egional planning agency having au-
hority to undertake metr0politan or

\PRIL 1960

tent. After early sessions, horizons

broaden and the subject matter is liter-
ally limitless. There have been epidem-
ics of swarming butterflies, Zorros with
and without horses, spatter designs bet-
ter than Armstrong ever created, and
many ships—ocean, space, and other-
wise. Although the program stresses
the doing and not necessarily what is
donc, the child has the right to destroy,
take home, or preserve his masterpiece.
The young artists work with the sim-
plest materials: 18”-by-24” sheets of
newsprint—attached t0 sheets of Ma-
sonite with large triangle clips; muffin
tins of poster paints in basic colors only
—-—red, blue, yellow, white, and black,
with plenty of empty spaces for mixing;
#10 tin cans of water for cleaning the
brushes; and large, long-handled
brushes, with fairly stiff bristles. Small
brushes tend to encourage small paint-
ings and limit inspiration. An inexpen-
sive clay is issued on hardboard with
the ever-present tin of necessary water
to assist in manipulating. Nontoxic
glazes are applied after the bisque fir-
ing with small camel’s-hair brushes.

 

Dungaree Daubers culminates in an
outdoor art show on a sunny Saturday
with paintings and sculptures mounted,
titled, and dis1)layed for everyone’s en-
joyment. On the morning of the show,
all the children in the program arrive
with picnic lunches and hang paintings
on the fence with clip Clothespins. Bal-
loons are blown, and burst, and fly
gaily away on what is invariably the
windiest day in June.
friends gather to View the collection
with pride. The high-school jazz group
contributes a jam session, everybody
dances, lemonade is served, and a gala
day with the arts is had by all.

The many and varied paintings pro-
duced by the children in the nine weeks
of Dungaree Daubers present a colorful
and delightful panorama as they stop,
or at least slow down, traffic on one of
the main thoroughfares. They are more
than a collection of fascinating exam-
ples of children’s arts; they are the
freely chosen, fun-filled exploratory
steps into what could be a strong, af-

firmative recreation pursuit for the rest
of their lives. #

Pa rents and

Federal Urban Planning Assistance

—.—As an aid to the planning of public recreation facilities—1960.

regional planning.

The 1959 amendments stress the im-
portance of planning for urban areas
in their entirety and on a comprehen-
sive basis. Comprehensive planning is
defined to include general physical
plans with respect to the character and
intensity of land use, programs for the
provision and financing of public im-
provements, and coordination with the
plans of other jurisdictions.

THE PREPARATION of plans for the
location of playgrounds, metro-
politan park systems, and other public
recreation facilities is considered to be
an eligible type of planning work, pro-
vided it is part of, or coordinated with,
comprehensive plans for the develop-
ment of the area.

A planning agency seeking federal
aid makes up a program of the work
which it proposes to do and submits it
for approval. Usually the program in-
cludes a number of studies and plans
incident to the preparation of a master
plan, and plans for the location of rec-
reation facilities are often included.

However, an applicant may request a
grant solely for the preparation of rec-
reation plans if it can be shown that
they fit in with general community
plans already completed or anticipated.

FEDERAL AID under this program is
not available for the planning of
specific public works, since provision
for such planning is made under the
Community Facilities Program of the
Housing and Home Finance Agency.
Also 701 funds may not be used for
land acquisition or construction; they
may be used solely for the purpose of
planning.

A city or county of less than fifty
thousand, desiring to take part in the
program, should submit a request to its
state planning agency. If aid is desired
011 a metropolitan or regional basis,
application may be made either to the
state planning agency or directly to the
Housing and Home Finance Agency.—
From a recent speech by TRACY B. AU-
Gt‘R, Assistant Commissioner for Urban
Planning Assistance, U. 5. Housing and
Home Finance Agency.

171

 

 

The Jolly Roger

Beatrice McAulich Stone

LAYGROUND OPENING TIIWE was
just around the corner in Bristol,

The Kelley

Park playground stall, consisting of a
director, and assistant, and a number
of volunteer junior-high-school young
people, had met several limes for plan-

New Hampshire.

ning and training. They realized that
the playground program of other years,
though well rounded and attractive to
local youngsters, needed more color
with an opportunity for growth through
self-initiated activity. It was decided
that this program could be aimed di-
rectly at the nine-year-olds and under,
three mornings a week, while their
older brothers and sisters attended the
recreation department’s day camp. The
other two weekday mornings would he
devoted to baseball and other sports
and activities for all ages on the play-
ground.

The staff agreed that too much of a
youngster’s time on the playground is
planned for him. They felt that in his
summer leisure time a child needs a
climate for growth through play and a
challenging opportunity in which he
can completely eXpress himself in

MRS. STONE is playground director for
the Bristol, New Hampshire Commu-
nity Center.

172

During Early Settlers Week the boys went all

out in reconstruction of pioneer America.

group activities under supervision. A
program must not rob the youngster of
all or any of his creative talents, which
might have developed in his own back-
yard, self-initiated. With this in mind,
the stall began to search for a plan to
coordinate the many types of activities
possible on a playground and at the
same time foster every participant’s
growth.

Two ideas emerged to stimulate the
development of a “Play Town.” In
1950 McCall’s Magazine sponsored a
project in Minneapolis, a “dynamic
new playground,” where children were
given tools, building supplies, and a
fenced-in vacant lot, and set to building
“The Yard,” a town of shacks, forts,
caves, trechouses, and so on. This pro-
ject had appeal, but the stall looked still
further for a method to coordinate the
many activities common to playground
programs. Disneyland’s planned fan-
tasy served as further stimulus, and the
stall was on its way to devise a new
program for Bristol's youngsters. This
would allow boys and girls—three days
a week and equipped with the necessary
tools and equipment—to create appro-
priate buildings and props in accord
with a weekly theme chosen by the stall
for its imagination appeal to children.

PIRATES IN THE
PLAYGROUND

A program, that gives scepe
to the child’s creative talents.

 

ln no time, waste lumber, cement
blocks, culverts, old cars, poles, old
blankets, and rugs became available.
Concurrently, the local park hoard met
and approved the plan for such use of
its area. lt was somewhat skeptical of
possible adverse reactions of townspeo-
ple to the inevitable mess that would
occur in the town’s only park. Because
of weekend baseball games played at
this park, it asked that all construction
be taken down on Fridays and put
away. This sounded like a real setback
at the time. Because of this stipulation,
though, only lumber, cement blocks, old
curtains, blankets, and rugs were used
in construction. A set of heavy volley-
ball standards also provcd valuable.

The first week of the eight-week pro-
gram was designated as “Early Settlers
Week.” The first morning, after regis-
tration, flag raising, and other opening
ceremonies, a “New England Town
Meeting” took place at which time a
mayor and council were elected and
plans made for the construction of a
settlers’ colony. The children worked
in primary friendship groups of all ages
while leaders helped those who were.
strange, shy, or unpopular find the best

working group to suit their needs.

On that first day, all nails and a lim-I

RECREATION I

ited number of tools—hammers, saws
and rulers—were provided by the play-
ground. After the first morning it was
evident the playground could no longer
stand the cost of supplying nails at the
rate they were disappearing. By the
second day every eager young builder
came armed with his own well-marked
hammer, saw, can of nails, and, fre-
quently, carpenter’s apron. During
“Early Settlers Week,” while the young
boys constructed dwellings and places
of business necessary to their settle-
ment, the young ladies were busy sew-
ing Priscilla caps and making other
items of apparel for their play families
under the supervision of the crafts
leader. As soon as the buildings were
ready, the girls tacked up curtains, and
painted window boxes and house fronts.
The girls, too, initiated Sunday school
activities for all, long before the build-
ings were completed. They felt that giv-
ing thanks and Bible study were an im-
portant part of early Colonial life.

Youngstcrs were encouraged to dress
up every day in costumes suitable to the
theme in effect at the time; the leaders,
of course, did likewise. Donations of
several large boxes of discarded cloth-
ing helped. This delighted many chil-
dren who did not have this opportunity
at home, and it kept many of the very
youngest busy for hours. The young-
sters brought antiques and antiquated
household items for a midweek display
and discussion.

On Friday, final day of “Early Set-
tlers Week,” the children celebrated
Thanksgiving. Mothers, grandmothers,
and neighbors had been invited by cut-
out paper invitations made earlier in
the week—~—simple old-fashioned figures
whose aprons read “Come. Friday. 10
A.M.” Visitors, invited to be Indians,
werc prescnted with headdresses fash-
ioned by the youngsters. Everyone
enjoyed a program of old-fashioned
games and guessing contests. The chil-
dren demonstrated old-fashioned danc-
ing and action songs learned during the
week. Refreshments, cold drinks, and
cookies, provided by the mothers, were
served from the “general store.” Just
one-half hour before closing time,
mothers assisted their children taking
buildings apart. The lumber was piled

APRIL 1960

against a nearby fence and covered
with heavy rugs and sturdy craft tables.

AFTER the first week the two paid and

five volunteer leaders held a pro-
gram evaluation. They found this type
of program was easy to conduct and su-
pervise; their enthusiasm was tremen-
dous; they felt a real answer had been
found to stimulate thcir own enthusi-
asm and that of the children. The par-
ents, too, expressed unanimous approv-
al and praise for the activities offered
their children. The staff felt the possi-
bilities for coordinating education with
fun were unlimited. There just seemed
to be no end to and never enough time
for all the crafts, dramatics, games, and
dance possibilities. The children were
constantly coming up with wonderful
ideas.

“Pirate Week” was the theme for the
second week, and probably the most
popular of the entire summer. Early
Monday morning a captain was chosen
for the Jolly Roger to be. He delegated
work areas: foredeck, afterdeck, poop-
deck, gangplank, masts, treasure chest,
figurehead, portholes, and lifeboat. By
Friday, the ship was large enough for
one hundred pirates and every inch of
space taken. Everyone came
dressed appropriately for the Spanish
Main (every scarf or sash from the cos-
tume box). Each youngster had made
a black cardboard pirate hat, eye patch,
and mustache.

A pirate sports day was held mid-
week, and all who were able to “walk
the plank” (the horizontal ladder) were
inducted into the Order of Skull and
Crossbones in solemn ceremony. At the
same time, a great deal of free play de-
veloped around the theme. A Friday
“Treasure Hunt,” with a mysteriously
found map as a guide, delighted all.

was

This article confirms the belief
that playground programs can be
creative and challenging. It also
confirms that success is depend-

ent upon wise leadership that un-
derstands the age characteristics
of children and allows a maxi-
mum of self-expression.

 

“Storybook,” “Indian,” “Cowboy,”
and “Circus” weeks were also well re-
ceived by the children and stimulated
their imaginations. During “Storybook
Week,” Sleeping Beauty’s castle, Tom
Sawyer’s raft, the Three Little Pigs’
houses, Heidi’s mountain hut, the Billy
Goats Grufic bridge, Peter Rabbit’s
hutch, Jack’s beanstalk went up. The
week lent itself beautifully to creative
dramatics and puppet plays, and several
commendable shows were produced
with the help of a number of mothers.
A party was developed around a sugar-
plum tree—the upright of a tetherball
game with dowels lashed to it, gaily dec-
orated with ribbons and candy—on the
final day of the week. Every child at-
tended, costumed after one of his favor-
ite storybook characters, and had the
chance to act out part of the story he
represented. The Picd Piper led every-
body in many rhythmic activities and
marches.

During “Indian Week,” after braves
and squaws had set up their tepees (cov-
ered with blankets from home), totem
pole, and ceremonial fire, they grouped
into family craftsmen. Each tepee pro-
duced a different product: tom-toms,
macaroni beads (also used as wam-
pum), peace pipes, shields, and so on,
which were bartered when completed.
The girls potato-printed dresses made
from old sheets, later sewn up at home.
The boys fashioned breechcloths of
scrap leather during craft period, after
they finished building their tepees.
Novel headdresses were individually
designed from corrugated cardboard
and turkey feathers. Rhythmic Indian
dancing, to music and Indian songs
learned during the week, were part of
the program given for parents on Fri-
day morning.

During “Cowboy Week” two corrals
went up, each large enough for Pet the
pony who came on Friday to give each
child a ride. The children were not
told that their corral was not really
sturdy enough for Pet. They made
bunkhouse and hitching-post and
broomstick horses during craft time. A
hotdog. chuckwagon roast highlighted
the week. Many games and contests de-
veloped out of this weekly theme, and
no one needed to be shown how to play

173

 

cowboys and rustlers during free-play
time.

The play area boasted a number of
other typical attractions built with
available materials. The “Magic Carpet
to Faraway Places” proved very popu-
lar. This consisted of a carpet spread
on the ground, headed up by an eight-
foot stake, with a sign nailed to it, and
strings of flags, loaned by a local serv-
ice station, stretched from top of stake
to back of carpet. Here stories were
read or told to small groups by the
young volunteer leaders, or children
could read books of their own choosing
from the playground library whenever
they wished. A puppet-and-song theater
was easily built from boards and blocks
with plenty of seating, and, frequently,
groups of children would, on their own,

dress up and produce plays here to eve.
rybody’s delight. The enthusiasm of
parents and townspeople alike was en-
couraging to the playground staff. At-
tendance increased over the entire pe-
riod, in spite of intense heat and the
many attractions in this resort area.

TIIE YOUNGSTERS really have learned

to share and cooperate, handle
conflict, and real-life problems. Chil-
dren who had trouble getting along
with others soon learned to control their
tempers, to give-and-take or be left out.
With all the boys and girls busy fin-
ishing their “jobs,” and directing their
own play, the leader actually had suffi-
cient time to help those who needed as-
sistance in learning to get along. \Vhat
counted here was the ability to do one's

share, to be fair, and to have consider-
ation for others. The youngsters de-
veloped muscular coordination, made
decisions, and stuck with their “work”
until completed. The projects remained
free of vandalism throughout the sum-
mer, and the only mishap was one
scratched foot.

One outgrowth was an upsurge in
backyard building activity which only
seemed to enhance and lend importance
to the program. These activities were
carried on during weekends and daily
after the playground closed.

The Bristol playground staff felt the
splendid opportunity there is here for
the integration of all the arts, for prac-
tical education, and physical activities.
It heartily recommends this type of pro-

gram. #

 

Plants Children Like to Grow

CHILDREN HAVE a natural curiosity about plants, particu-
larly how a seed develops into a small plant which in
turn develops into a large one. It is natural that their in-
terest is held longer in plants with unique qualities. Specd
and size are most important to remember in helping chil-
dren to become more interested in plants. If they can mea-
sure growth from day to day, they are happy. If a tiny seed
grows into a six- or eight-foot giant, they will never for-
get it. These are plants children like to grow:

CASTORBEAN. This large, easy-to-handle seed germinates
quickly and grows rapidly into a large (6-8 ft.) plant with
some leaves 30 inches in diameter.

SUNFLOWERS. These grow practically anywhere under all
sorts of conditions. The Mammoth Russian variety is best
for a huge flower head on a tall (8-10 ft.) stalk. The plump
seeds are good to eat and good for bird food, too. The red
varieties and the double sunflowers are smaller but they
are spectacular nonetheless and attract yellow-feathered
goldfinches in large numbers in late summer.

MOONFLOWERS. The seed of this nlorning-glory-like vine
is slow to germinate unless the coat is nicked with a knife
or file (a grown-up job), but the shouts of glee and expres-
sions of amazement which accompany the unfolding of the
first flower are not soon forgotten. The flowers actually un-
furl within the lapse of two or three minutes in the early
evening. Start these early so they will be sure to produce
flowers before frost.

PUMPKINS. Let the children grow thcir own jack-o-lanterns.
Use such varieties as Genuine Mammoth, Connecticut Field,
or a selection Burpee actually calls Jack-O-Lantern. The
sugar varieties sold on most seed stands are small pump-

174

    
 
   
   

f
w a ,
 T x H o\ F  ,
\\\“‘/  '  _,.:
  t,  4:. I
 ’ .ffl'“:- .- .
“ § _ x _ ’H

  

 
  
  

 

  
   

t

   

     

 

The ingredients for a successful summer playground are
planning, program, and publicity. Last year the Colum-
bus, Ohio, recreation department started its summer play-
ground activities with an eye-catching announcement in the
Columbus Citizen. Cartoons (see above) were tied in with
special weeks and events and made an attractive calendar.

 

kins more desirable for pics than Halloween. If the vines
grow up on a fence, be sure to build platforms under the
developing fruits, else they will become heavy and will be
torn from the vine. A fifteen-inch square of plywood nailed
on the end of a two-by-four of suitable length makes an
ideal support. Fastened to the fence with a wire, this one-
legged platform is an inconspicuous sapport for each fruit.

GOURDS. In their endless variations, gourds are always at-'\
tractive to children, but be sure to includc some of the i!
largc-fruited sorts: calabash, dipper, sugar-trough.

OTHERS. Keep to large, brilliant flowers such as zinnias,
inarigolds, orange cosmos, cockscombs. In the vegetable
department, radishcs are the old standby for a quick, at-
tractive erop. Wax beans and green beans produce give-‘1!
away quantities, and carrots and beets are very easy to grow.
Don't burden the intcrested child with too much, but try

to includc action and variety in his garden. #

 

Reprinted from Kingwood Center Notes, 900 Park Avenue,
West, Mansfield, Ohio. Vol. VI, No. 4, April 1959.

RECREATION

UNIFORM OUTFITS
FOR LEADERS

HE QUESTION OF whether or not
T recreation leaders should wear

some sort of uniform clothing
comes up some time every year. In
some communities, leaders want uni-
forms; in others, leadcrs object to
them. A discussion of this problem is
very timely at the beginning of the
playground season.

No one will argue the point that lead-
ers should be dressed suitably for their
work. This precludes at once the over-
dressed leader in high heels, costume
jewelry, and elaborate hair-do. Many
professions are identifiable by their
dress. It is a badge of oflice.

For that reason, it might be well for
a recreation department to pause and
reflect when leaders object to any type
of uniform. Is there any reason why the
leaders do not wish, even subconscious-
ly, to be identified as members of the
department or the profession? Can it
be that the leaders’ attitudes reflect the
general attitude of the community to-
ward the recreation program? If so,
the department needs to examine its
public relations.

The rcason may be, and probably is,
much simpler. Leaders may object to
any type of uniform simply because
they do not wish to wear the uniforms
to and from work in public conveyances
and on the streets. And in many com-
munities, planners of recreation areas
and facilities have given very little
thought to the needs of leaders. Partic-
ularly in playground work, that most
visible of all types of recreation, leaders
often have no safe place to store their
handbags and street clothes, and no
place to shower and change clothes.

Active playground leadership is
dusty, sweaty work. If a leader drives
to the playground, he or she can go
home to wash and change. Otherwise,
the leader must change clothes without

MISS MUSSELMAN is head of Program
Service, National Recreation Associa-
tion.

APRIL 1960

Virginia Musselman

It is important that leaders be

suitably dressed and easily identified.

washing or must appear on the streets
as is. Workers in other professions al-
most always have an opportunity to
change to street clothes when not on
duty. Recreation departments would
do well to give more thought to the
physical needs of their leaders.
Certain types of recreation activities
suggest certain types of clothing. The
swimming instructor prefers a bathing
suit. The dance instructor can work
better in a leotard. The tennis instruc-
tor can be more active in shorts. To
wear a bathing suit, leotard, or shorts
on the street, however, would violate

 

the standards of good taste in most
communities.

For much of the activity program—
arts, crafts, games, storytelling, music,
and the like———the physical requirements
are not so stringent. Ease in movement,
comfort, coolness, neatness, and clean-
liness are primary requirements.

Then comes the question of what
types of clothing best meet the needs,
and there is no one answer. Certainly
the dress of the leaders, male and fe-
male, should (1) reflect credit on the
department, (2) identify the leader as
part of the department, (3) identify the
leader to the children and adults visit-
ing the area, (4) be suitable to the type
of work performed, and (5) be flatter-
ing to everyone.

Probably the most appropriate cloth-
ing for the average woman leader is a
simple one- or two-piece dress of drip-
dry cotton, the skirt wide enough to
provide freedom of movement. Short-
sleeved sports shirts and slacks look
well on most men. Some sort of identi-
fying armband, insignia, badge, cap, or

other identification should be plainly
visible.

By using a uniform insignia, a lee-
way in color selection might be possible
in many departments, or even choice of
several colors might be permitted. Play-
grounds are getting more and more col-
orful. Leaders’ dress might well follow
suit. There is no reason, for example,
that leaders of teen-age groups, leaders
of preschool groups, storytellers, music
leaders, craft leaders, etcetera might
not each have an identifying color. For
small departments with limited staff, a
choice of a few pastel colors might be
enough.

One large department requires dark
green uniforms for men and women,
cotton in summer, wool in winter. An-
other requires gray slacks and white or
gray shirts for men, medium dark-blue
one- or two-piece dresses, or white
blouses and blue skirts for women. An-
other uses an aqua coverall type of uni-
form for women, with red insignia.
Many use pastel colors. Some prohibit
slacks and shorts for women. Some re-
quire shirts and slacks for men. All
mention the need for suitable, neat
clothing, and low-heeled shoes. A large
department might make arrangements
with some department store or manu-
facturing company to supply these rea-
sonably. In a smaller community, the
selection would have to be left to the
availability of some suitable style. In
any case, the type and cost of dress se-
lected should not be a hardship on the
leader.

This whole question of uniform
dress, in departments that have not yet
developed a specific policy, should be
worked out cooperatively with the staff,
to consider, in a democratic manncr,
the best policy for the good of the de-
partment and leader. Each has an ob-
ligation to the other. The leaders are
a visible symbol of the department, the
line of communication between pro-
gram and people. They should repre-
sent the best of each. #-

175

DRAMATICS ON THE PLAYGROUND

Nancy Eichstcadt

HE PREMIERE PERFORMANCE of
T The Three Billy Goats Gran was
about to begin on a sunny s10pe
outside Lydell School in Whitefish Bay,
a suburb Of Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
Six solemn little children bearing tree
branches trooped around the corner of
the building and took their assigned
places; they were the trees. Then the
troll, with a curly paper mask with nasty
eyebrows and a fierce scowl, climbed
under an old school table. One young
man stood up importantly before the
assembled audience. There were moth-
ers with baby carriages and many chil-
dren from all over the playground.
“The name of our play is The Three
Billy Goats Crag,” said the announcer
in a loud, clear voice, full of confidence.
“The scene takes place on two sides of
a river and on the bridge in between.”
One by one, the little goats slapped
their hands on the table, prctcnding
they were trip-trapping across the
bridge; for costumes they wore paper
tufts tied onto their chins. The audi-

ence was quiet, attentive——in a story
wodd.

In the summer of 1958 the Whitefish
Bay Department of Rccrcation and
Adult Education ventured into the field
of summer creative dramatics for the
first time in a number of years. A dra-
ma specialist was employed to train
leaders and supervise a program of very
simple creativc dramatics. We wanted
to involve many individuals who had
come to the playground for a variety of
experiences. We agreed a playground
was not the place to introduce scripts,
intricate rehearsal schedulcs, and elab-
orate productions. We wanted a dra-
matics program attuned to the more
relaxed atmosphere of summer play-
grounds.

Whitefish Bay is a community with a

 

MRS. EICHSTEADT, a member of the
Whitehsh Bay Department of Recrea-
tion and Adult Education, is director of

the department’s Bay Teen Players ( see
RECREATION, May 1959, Page 197) and

has had extensive theatrical experience.

176

population of twenty thousand. There
are four public grade schools, and dur-
ing the summer the recreation depart-
ment conducts morning programs at
each of them. Three full days were
taken at the beginning of summer for
training of staff members. The drama-
tics specialist was given three sessions
in which to describe her part of the pro-
gram. The first period covered a defini-
tion of creative dramatics, the aims of
the program, and the scope such an ac-
tivity could encompass. This took place
hefore any people who had any connec-
tion with the summer program, direc-
tors of each playground and their staffs,
volunteers of junior-high and high-
school age, and supervisors of other
special activities.

The last two meetings were held with
the staff member selected from each
playground to do the dramatics; they
were accompanied by a number of in-
terested volunteers. In these two less
formal sessions we tried to cover many
phases of creative dramatics. We em-
phasized that dramatics, in order to be
creative, must result from the actions
of the children regardless of whether
the story is created by them or taken
from a story book.

We described simple puppet ideas,
such as using paper bags with faces
drawn on them and a rubber band to
hold them to the wrist; wc suggested
a picnic table turned on its sidc for a
stage. We tried to make simple cos-
tumes available. We distrihutcd lists of
pantomime ideas to be used as warm-
ups in the groups. We mentioned books
that contain ideas along thcsc lincs.

We discussed areas of the playground
to use—a shaded spot, a kindergarten
room adjoining the playground, per-
haps even an activity room with a stage
in it. It was strongly suggcstcd that the
place used should be removed from thc
more vigorous and noisy gamcs areas.

It was agreed that the drama special-
ist would come to each playground for
one hour a week; it was obvious from
this that there was no intention that she
should conduct the program. It was un-
derstood, however, that the program

would not be considered complete if
there was no development of the activity
before her next visit.

The program began with mixed feel-
ings on the leaders’ parts. Some stepped
out with confidence and plunged into it
with composure and self-assurance.
Others were nervous and unsure of
themselves, but they were soon swept
ahead by the enthusiasm of the children.
Each program took on its own individu-
ality. One group found that they had
a ready-made audience in the nursery-
school program on their playground;
they prepared a play a week for their
young “captive” audience. We had pup-
pets made out of a variety of materials,
some even brought from home. We had

more elaborate productions of The
Princess Who Could Not, Laugh, The

Peddler and His Caps, even Till Enlen-
spiegel and His Merry Pranks. Cos-

tumes were contrived from almost noth~
ing; the majority were invented by the
children from bits of clothing brought
from home. Records were volunteered
and music played for atmosphere. Each
group presented at least one play for its
“Parents’ Night,” an evening of fun
held on every playground.

In evaluating a program such as this,
it can be said that children learned to
think on their fcet, to create roles. Sec-
ond, they came to realize gctting up be-
fore an audience (and ultimately before
their classmates in school) is not too
painful an ordeal. They all Icarned the
value of audience behavior, that you
aid other pcoplc in their performances
by being a willing listener.

We, as lcadcrs, learned too. “It:
found it was not necessary to have a
spccially traincd person on cacli play-
ground to introduce simplc creative dra-
matics.We rcalizcd that it was neccssary
to help the children make up their stor-
ics, particularly in the earlier sessions.

Our future plans are simple. We hope
to involve a larger numbcr of children.
\Vc do not plan for a summcr activity
which will take a dominant part, but
rather we hope for onc which will in].
plcmcnt an ever-growing summer pro-

gram. #

RECREATION

A NAUTICAL PLAY COMMUNITY

The seashore theme is popular in
play areas today. “But whatever the
theme, the important thing about play
apparatus on a playground is not what
you put there, but how you place it,”
says Bob Cook of Belleville, New Jer-
sey. “T here should be thoughtful pur-
pose behind the selection and placement
of each piece. Each should give the
child an opportunity to choose among

9,

several possibilities. . . .

PLAY COMMUNITY with a nauti-
A cal theme“ stirs young imagin-
ations t0 thoughts of the high
seas, buried treasure, and adventurous
pirates. The area shown here combines
improvised equipment with commer-
cial apparatus. Units are so placed
as to offer little adventurers constant
choice, challenge, and energy outlet. A
nautical play community, now being
constructed for the Essex County Chil-
dren’s Shelter by the Belleville Chapter
of Unico, a national service organiza-
tion, was designed by Robert E. Cook,
superintendent of recreation in Belle-
ville, New Jersey.
Normal approach to this area is via

*For other playgrounds with a nautical

theme, see April 1958 RECREATION, Pages 106
and 118.

APRIL 1960

5'0 GAL STEEL DRUM

    
 
    

 

  

2" NAM.
PIPE Bow-
HOPP'f T’AW
SWING

piles (sawed-off telephone poles) lead-
ing either to the boat’s gangplank or to
the slide chute. Should a child elect to
climb the slide chute to the tower he
may then slide down the rope to the
deck, go on down the other slide chute,
or return as he came. And so it goes
throughout the whole area—choosing,
acting, emerging, and choosing again.
The tower might suggest a lighthouse
to children: the twenty-one-foot-long
corrugated sewer pipe, a submarine,
and the canvas of the “roly-poly,” the
sails of a square-rigger. The four-foot
plank provides a harmless outlet for
that little bit of sadism in every child.
The cargo nets and the rope oHer lots
of climbing exercise. A little frustra-
tion is built into the improvised roly-
poly because the child’s weight causes

(MBST RUNS Tum

“0U- N'ID l5 canister) 
“To GROoN‘D ) -'

   

moan To CORRUGATED
IRON SEWER PIPE?

— OPE LADDER NAHGS _
R FROM DRUM INTO INThRIOR

-5€Ruzs as 000 SHAPED Hones CUT IN SIDES
~. k—MOUNTED cm R-R.TIE$

cone RETE.
$EWER PIPE

INSmE FILLED t'vlu'rra tun-r
PAIF‘TED PALE GREEN

MtRACLE:

/ TOWER

   

the canvas to bulge downward, thereby
requiring a real effort to topple over
into the next lower canvas. The four-
foot vertical sewer pipes serve as refuge
to youngsters who find the community
play too intense. It is important these
pipes have one foot of earth piled inside
as a guarantee that the child who gets
himself in can get himself out. The
length of pipe is suggestive of a subma-
rine. The bowsprit of the boat should
be installed securely so it will be safe
to swing on. Color should be used free-
ly throughout.

Many things can be done with the
“play community theory,” many themes
can be used, many materials can be em-
ployed. Improvisation on traditional
play apparatus imparts a new vitality
to children’s play areas. 

1??

 

A THREEWAY
PROJECT

FOR

RECREATION

City-county cooperation pays off

in East Tennessee.

Frank D. McClellaml

LOUNT COUNTY, AN area of about
B 575 square miles in East Tennes-
see, lies in the upper Tennessee
Valley ten miles southwest of Knoxville.
Its western boundary traces TVA’s Fort
Loudon Reservoir; its southern border
joins the Great Smoky Mountains Na-
tional Park, a considerable portion of
which was, in fact, taken from Blount
County.

The county’s population is concen-
trated in the adjoining cities of Mary-
ville and Alcoa, which, with their
immediate environs, form an urban-
residential community of about twenty

DEAN MCCLELLAND, of Maryville Col-
lege, was chairman of the study com-
mittee mentioned in this article and was
chairman. of the Blount County Recrea-
tion Council during its first four years.

178

thousand. Total county population is
nearly sixty thousand. The rural area
is not entirely agricultural, since a sub-
stantial portion of the rural as well as
the urban population is employed in the
three large Alcoa aluminum plants.

Blount County is richlycndowed with
natural recreation resources. Fort Lou-
don Lake provides abundant opportu-
nitics for boating, fishing, and other
water sports; Great Smoky Mountains
National Park offers unequaled facili-
ties for hiking, camping, and fishing.
Despite this favorable recreation en-
vironment—possibly because of it—
organized recreation in Blount County
five years ago was limited to modcst
summer programs in Maryville and Al-
coa and a basketball program in the
winter months. These programs were

conducted almost exclusively by school
personnel, with voluntary supervision.
They were financed in part by munici-
pal appropriations and in part by the
Blount County Community Chest; to-
tal allotment for recreation from all
sources was about eight thousand dol-
lars annually.

In 1953, on the initiative of local civic
groups, a meeting of interested citizens,
including representatives of civic clubs,
schools, churches, and city and county
oiiicials, discussed the need for in-
creased recreation opportunities. About
thirty-five representative citizens gath-
ered, and this group became the nucleus
that established the present county pro-
gram. A countywide federation of civic
clubs, through which joint support of
important civic projects has become
readily available was a by-product of
this group interest.

First discussions revolved around the
idea of a community center—an elabo-
rate, expensive rccrcation building. It
soon became apparent that, before de-
tcrmining the type of facilities and mus-
tering the necessary public support, an
organized recreation program under
professional lcadcrship should be devel-
oped. It was evident, moreover, that a
single center could not serve an area as
large as the county. Finally. it was
noted that many facilities in schools,
churches, and clubs were not used to
capacity.

As a result, the group agreed that a
well-organized recreation program us-
ing existing facilities should precede
any capital outlay. A committee was
formed in May 1953 “to study the pos-
sibilities of eXpanding the connnunity
recreation program of the Maryville-
Alcoa area . . . and to make recommen-
dations to the group.”

The committee spent a year at its
task. It sought the counsel of the state
recreation consultant aml the Southern
district rcprcscntative of the National
Recreation Association. It studied rcc-
reation programs in other places and
requested the state planning commission

RECREATION

to make a recreation survey of the area.

Progress reports were made to the
group from time to time. The survey
was completed in May 1954 and was
published with funds furnished by
Maryville and several civic clubs. In
June 1954 the study committee made its
report and recommendations and pre-
sented the survey, Public Recreation—
0 Plan for Community Action, as a sup-
plement to the report.

It showed clearly that although pub-
lic and private recreation facilities in
Blount County were by no means ade-
quate. they could support a more ex-
tensive program than was then in Oper-
ation. The survey also pointed out that,
on the basis of standards published by
the National Recreation Association, ex-
penditures were considerably less than
needed even for the summer programs,
and only a fraction of that indicated for
year-round programs in the urban ar-
eas, with no provision at all for rural
communities. It showed many geo-
graphical areas and various age groups
were without adequate recreation Op-
portunities. It made clear that a county-
wide program was the only solution,
since some of the areas most starved for
recreation lay in pockets outside both
cities but adjacent to them. In short,
the survey, by means of an objective ap-
praisal, established beyond doubt the
need for an organized, year-round,
countywide recreation program.

THE COMMITTEE accepted most of the
conclusions of the state survey in
principle. Since it seemed unlikely that
either city or county alone would sup-
port a full-time superintendent of rec-
reation, the committee proposed that
each of the three government units es-
tablish a recreation commission as au-
thorized by Tennessee statute, and that
the three commissions be directed by
their respective units to act jointly in
supporting and supervising a recreation
program for the area.
The committee further recommended
that an initial annual fund of at least

APRIL 1960

fiftcen thousand dollars be provided and
that the commissions engage a full-time,
professionally trained superintendent of
recreation for the countywide program.
It was decided that the new program be-
gin with the more densely populated ar-
eas and be gradually extended through-
out the county. The need for developing
a long-range plan for park and recrca-
tion areas and facilities to serve the
whole county was emphasized.

The recommendations were warmly
received and approved, and the commit-
tee was instructed to proceed with their
implementation. The plan was presentcd
to the two city boards of commissioners
with suggested ordinances to establish
the recreation commissions. A resolu-
tion to the same effect was presented to
the Blount County Fiscal Court. In each

case a recreation commission of five
members was specified, two of whom
were to be ex oficio representatives of
the corresponding school system, sincc
the initial recreation program would de-
pend chiefly upon use of school facili-
ties. In each case it was stipulated that
the recreation commission was to act
jointly with those of the other two units
to provide a countywide program.

In the face of some Opposition, the
July 1954 Quarterly Court adopted a
resolution establishing the Blount
County Recreation Commission and au-
thorizing an initial annual appropria-
tion. Ordinances were enacted soon
after, establishing the two recreation
commissions for Maryville and Alcoa.
The city of Maryville likewise made a
substantial appr0priation. The Alcoa
Board of Commissioners agreed to par-
ticipate with a reasonable administra-
tive appropriation, while continuing to
operate its own summer program. The
Community Chest later made substan-
tial contributions. After some delay the
member-é of the three recreation com-
missions were appointed.

The next step was combining the
three recreation commissions into a sin-
gle working group. A joint meeting was
called, and, after considerable discus-

sion, the principles of a working plan
were agreed upon. Afterwards a “mem-
orandum of agreement” was drawn up,
ratified by the three commissions and
signed by the three chairmen; and, in
January 1955, the Consolidated Recre-
ation Council of Blount County came
into being.

The agreement provided for a chair-
man, vice-chairman, and secretary to be
elected by the combined commissions,
one officer from each commission. The
three officers made up the executive
committee. Monthly meetings were spe-
cified. A two-thirds vote of the council

membership of fifteen was required for
the approval of the annual budget, and
for the engaging of the superintendent
of recreation, both to be on recommen-
dation of the executive committee. The
fiscal year was begun April 1, to pro-
vide early planning and budgeting for
No commis-
sions could withdraw from the council
without thirty days’ notice before the
end of the fiscal year.

the summer programs.

APPLICANTS WERE SOUGHT for the
position of the superintendent of
recreation and carefully screened by
the executive committee. Decision was
finally made in favor of a coach and
physical-education teacher in the coun-
ty school system, a highly respected
man, whose appointment assured a sub-
stantial degree of confidence in the new
program. A treasurer was elected from
one of the local banks and bonded as
required in the agreement. An ofiice
for the superintendent of recreation
was established in the county court
house.

Initial planning of the council was
focused on organization and extension
of summer programs. This was no
great problem in urban areas, where a
beginning had already been made; but
the procedure by which programs could
be initiated in rural communities was
not so clear. It was apparent that, re-
gardless of need, the council should not
attempt to impose a recreation program

179

SAVE 50%

SEND FOR OUR I960
Trophy Catalog

 

0 Athletic

0 Incentive

0 Safety

0 Easy Selection
0 One Catalog

Immediate Delivery
Engraving — 2V2¢ a
letter.

Your trophy free if

we don’t deliver as
promised.

All your award needs filled in one
catalog — send for yours today!

  

 

   

 

Emblem 8. Badge
MANUFACTURING CO.

DEPT. R-I 68 PINE STREET

PROVIDENCE 3, R. l.

‘- -—.—-—

 

   
           

Install serve-self
Locker Checking

ELIMINATE llllBlllTY

Pools and beaches everywhere are
installing Sentinel Coin-and-Key
Checking Systems. One big reason
for this trend is the freedom from
responsibility for patrons’ clothing
and other personal possessions.

Patrons appreciate this service
and are happy to pay for it. No
standing in line. no worry about
valuables. no mixups...greater
privacy. too.

You eliminate checkroom payrolls
and at the same time have the
added income from the lockers . . .
enough to retire the investment in
a few months' operation.

Without obligation get the facts
now.Write for complete information.

. SENTINEL

COIN-AND-KEY

OPERATED cnecxms srsrems
THE FLXIBLE COMPANY

180

LOUDONVILLE, OHIO

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

upon a community, but rather that such
a program should stem from a recogni-
tion of need by the community itsielf.
Thus, the policy gradually evolved that
the recreation council would cooperate
with rural sponsoring groups in devel-
oping community recreation; hy furn-
ishing counsel, direction, equipment,
reasonable financial support as needed,
and publicity. This policy has proved
sound since it placed initial responsibil-
ity and control within a stahle commu-
nity group.

Another principle, which the council
followed from the beginning, that the
recreation activities not interfere with
church events, brought approval and
support from church groups. No rec-
reation event was scheduled on Sunday
or Wednesday evenings. The summer
programs began after the Daily Vaca-

tion Bible Schools, held the first weeks
of summer vacation.

The first summer recreation, in addi-
tion to the Alcoa program, included
operation of four playgrounds in Mary-
ville and six in rural communities
throughout the county. Also, five coun-
tywide baseball and two softball leagues
were conducted. Most of these nsed
school facilities, such as gynmasimns,
libraries, and athletic fields. Volun-
teers did much of the supervising; those
who devoted much time receiving mod-

est remuneration.

SINCE EXTENSIVE USE of school facil-
ities was an important part of thc
planned program, it was essential there
he a careful and farsighted policy in
this sensitive area. The council made it
clear from the first that every precau-
tion would be taken to insure proper
use of school property and that main-
tenance, janitorial, and occasional dam-
age expenses would be met adequately,
promplly, and without question. The
policy has been followed carefully for
the five years and the school people
have been outstandingly coopcratiVe.
During the fall and winter of the first
year an attempt was made to broaden
rccreation opportunitics to meet the
needs of various age groups. The first
adult, square-(lance school, sponsoer
jointly with the local daily paper, drcw
seven hundred registrants, four hun-
(lrcd completing the ten-week course.
The following year a similar course

drew over three hundred, the next year
one hundred. Biweekly square dances
were held and a number of square-
dancc clubs formed voluntarily. As a
result, square dancing has become pop-
ular recreation throughout the county
for adults as well as youth.

Evening woodworking classes, con-
ducted by high-school, manual-training
teachers in school shops, have proven
successful, with many husband-wife
teams participating. A chess-and-
checker club has attracted young and
old, chief‘ly male. Annual hobby shows
have stimulated wide interest and par-
tieipation. Throughout the five years
of its existence the Blount County Rec-
reation Council program has grown
steadily in variety of activities and
number of participants, while it has
gradually extended into the rural com-
munities. In addition to eight rural rec-
reation programs last year, many of the
earlier local programs have become
countywide. Each winter, for example,
men’s and women’s PTA basketball
teams compete in lively countywide
leagues, and this holds true for most of
the sports programs.

Of course, much remains to be done.
The first five years have been devoted
largely to building a substantial year-
round program that would merit pub-
lic support as an essential service, not
a luxury. Attention must now be given
to strengthening the financial structure
and leading the way to capital outlay
for permanent recreation facilities. The
limit of school facilities has already
been reached; in fact, there are not
enOUgh playing courts in the county
now to provide adequately for the has-
ketball program. There must be more
room for clubs, crafts, and theatrical
An outdoor swimming
pool is greatly nceded in the Maryvillc
area. There is increasing demand for

productions.

recreation for the elderly. Acquisition
of land for parks and playgrounds must
be pushed. Arcas along the Fort Lon-
don Lake, set aside by TVA for public
recreation and recently leased by the
recreation council, must be developed.

A good beginning has been made.
The Blount County Recreation Council
has demonstrated that separate political
units can work to mutual advantage in

building community recreation. But
the big job is still ahead. 
RECREATION

 

A Cooperative
Playground
Plan

John D. Dittmar

UNIVERSITY TOWN with a bor-
ough manager form of govern-
vania, has eleven thousand residents
living within the borough limits and
thirteen thousand university students

ment, State College, Pennsyl-

who live on campus. The university is
the primary source of income for com-
munity residents. Two parks and six
playgrounds exist in the borough. A
legal recreation board was established
in 1946, and a year-round recreation
program is now operating.

In July 1957 the director of recrea-
tion was appointed director for the
area, which includes five neighboring
townships. At the present time, a col-
lege-area recreation program is being
organized. In 1955 the recreation di-
rector and the recreation board started
planning for a new approach to ade-
quate supervision of both parks and
playgrounds, a problem of too many
children and too large groups for the
playground leaders to handle. Anothcr
question was whether the program was
adequate to meet the needs.

MR. DITTMAR is director of recreation,
State College Park and Recreation
Board, Pennsylvania.

APRIL 1960

“Parents’ skills are utilized . . .”

The first step was gaining coopera-
tion of the college of education at the
university. Dr. Dorothea Hinman, with
considerable eXperience in family edu-
cation, was interested and agreed to
work with the recreation department.

Students were assigned to make fam-
ily visits in different areas of the com-
munity so that all playground neigh-
borhoods would be covered. The main
purpose of these visits was to ascertain
the number of children interested in at-
tending the playground, their interests,
what parents could do to help, what
kinds of supplies and equipment fam-
ilies could lend for the summer pro-
gram.

The results of this survey were tabu-
lated and evaluated in the college
classes under the guidance of the recre-
ation director and Dr. Hinman. From
this survcy we found out where some
strong volunteer help might he enlisted
for the summer playground supervision.

Several parents from each of the
playground areas were therefore invit-
ed to assist in planning the next year’s
playground program, after which a se-
ries of evening meetings was held in
each playground area, to explain the
program to interested parents. Their
comments were considered in making
final summer playground plans. At
these meetings parents were asked to
serve as volunteers for at least one sum-
mer playground session, and not more
than four. Response was excellent, and
one parent from each playground area
was assigned to schedule the parents
who would assist the playground leader
during these sessions.

Age groups were divided into four to
seven; eight to ten; eleven to thirteen;
and thirteen to fifteen years. We de-
cided the program should be more in-
formative—educational as well as rec-
reational. A start was made by visiting
the individual neighborhoods to learn
what really existed, what was needed in
this area, and so on. Next followed a
series of visits to other areas in town

and then to regional areas. With the
parents’ additional help we were able
to incrcasc our trips, our special events
on individual playgrounds, and, best of
all, to encourage family participation
during playgrOUnd hours and during
our family night activities.

The role of the playground leader is
most important in this cooperative plan.
He is responsible for the playground
program and general supervision of the
playground area, meeting with the
scheduled parents before the play-
ground opens for the day, meeting with
the parents scheduled to discuss the
program for the week, and assisting
parents with program activities.

The parents” skills included many of
the general playground activities such
as arts and crafts, storytelling, singing,
music, dramatics, sports, and dancing.
The amount of talent and leadership un-
covered through this parent coopera-
tion was amazing. We are planning to
organize a parents council next.

Through our cooperative plan we
have found that our playground attend-
ance has doubled; many more parents
have become interested in our total rec-
reation program; our playground lead-
ers have gained the additional experi-
ence of working with adults; and our
community leadership resources are
really being discovered and used.

Summary of 1956-57 Playground

Season

Individual parents who participated reg-

ularly in daily programs ........  ........... .. 513
Individual parents who took direct lead-

ership of program .........................  ..... .. 40
Individual homes that were Open to small

and large groups .... .. . ........................... .. 36
Individual parents who provided guid-

ance or transportation ............  ...... .. 327

Individual parents who constructed
equipment and helped in preparing

areas ...................................................... .. 77
Individual parents who participated in
whole family afIairs ...... ..   300
Mothers who provided snacks or treats
for the group .......................................... .. 208
Individual parents who participated in
playground planning meetings ............ .. 316
181

 

 
   

  

A unique and eosy-to-teoch
method of music education
for children

    
 

THE
PLAYGROUND

AS MUSIC TEACHER

An Introduction to Music Through Games

By MADELEINE CARABO-CONE
Co-outhor of How to Help Children Learn Music

  
   
       

In this delightful and clearly illustrated book, Mrs. Cone has
dramatized the written language of music in terms of the
games children love best. Over 100 favorite games—Blind-
man’s Bali, Musical Chairs, Take a Giant Step—have been
adapted for play on a music staff marked on either an indoor
or outdoor play area. With the bass clef, the treble clef, and
the entire Note family as companions, the children play and
sing in the land of lines and spaces that form the Grand Staff.

For parents, teachers and recreation directors ( who need no
previous n1us1cal training to use the book) Mrs. Cone has pro-

vided a unique and creative method of making music a part
of childhood experience.

“All told, a most original idea, engagineg developed.”
—MARTIN Bunwsrsm, Head, Dept. of Music.
New York University

$5.00

 
       
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  

Over 100 line drawings

   
 

of your bookstore or from
HARPER & BROTHERS, New York 16

    

REQUEST PRICES

FREE LITERATURE (S SPECIFICATIONS

"’ Playground Equipment ('51 Playground Plans

* Basketball Backstops
Indoor 6: Outdoor Type

* Bleachers
Gymnasium 6: Athletic Field

* Trampolins
Choice of 14 models

* Score Boards—For Every Sport

BHAMPIUN RECREATION EIIUIP. INC.

HIGHLAND PARK, ILLINOIS

amp L0 "5  

For The Finest in Prize Awards
See Your Trophy Dealer or write

F. H. ,NOBLE & COMPANY
559 w. sou: 5mm - CHICAGO

 

   

 
 

\\ lu-n writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

Utility Easement Policy in Parks
In 1959 the Albuquerque, New Mexico, Parks and Rec-

reation Department collected information from eight cities
on their policies with reference to granting requests for
easements across park land by utility companies. A sum-
mary of the replies, together with a statement from the
American Institute of Park Executives, was issued in bul-
letin form by the department. Among major conclusions
were:

1. Seven of the eight cities have either written or gen-
erally established policies regarding location of utilities in
park areas.

2. Four cities grant easements or other right-oi-entry
across parks if the utility is to serve park purposes.

3. Seven of the eight cities demand, as a general rule,
that underground installations be made if utility must cross
the park but serve other than park purposes. Only one city
stands the additional cost, but three cities share the cost
with the utility companies in varying degrees. Three re-
quire the utility companies to hear all costs.

4. Unless utility lines are placed underground, seven cit-
ies require lines be routed around park areas.

5. City attorneys in two cities—Denver and San Diego
-——have ruled the city has no legal means to grant easements
or other property rights over dedicated park property.

Industrial Recreation Research Proposed

According to the January 1960 issue of Recreation. Man-
agement the National Industrial Recreation Association has
established a research policy “to stimulate and coordinate
research by prospective surveyors, research students, and
others wishing to conduct research projects.

“Under the policy, proposed research projects will he
sent to each member of the live-man N IRA Research Com-
mittee which will recommend changes and approval or dis-
approval. Upon approval, the survey or questionnaire will
carry the statement ‘Authorized by the N IRA Research Com-
mittee.’ This policy will guarantee that surveys made of
N IRA members will be worthwhile projects conducted ac-
cording to approved statistical methods.”

NIRA research director is Gordon L. Starr oi the Student
Union at the University of Minnesota. The NIRA hoard
also made a research grant to the University of Minnesota
to study the relationships of employee participation in in-
dustrial recreation and employee morale, absenteeism, job
tenure, turnover ratings, and elliciency. This study. will be
conducted both by questionnaire and interview with selected
firms in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area.

Ice Skating IlliOl'lllt'lIIOll from Michigan

The Grand Rapids Public Recreation Department in 195‘)
secured information from fifty-three Michigan municipali-

RECREATION

Research Revie‘

and Abstracts

 

George D. Butler

ties with reference to their ice-skating facilities and pro-
grams. A total of 473 artificial and natural ice skating rinks,
plus two hockcy rinks, were reported. Nine cities reported
refrigerated rinks; Detroit, nine; and Dearborn, six rinks
of this type.

Twenty-seven cities reported hockey, in addition to two
reporting a clinic. Fifteen had figure skating. Thirty-five
of the fifty-three cities reported supervision of one or more
of their skating rinks; three others of their hockey rinks
only. All nine cities with refrigerated rinks reported super-
v151on.

Esthetics and Economic Development

The Conservation and Resource-Use Education Project
of the Joint Council on Economic Education raises a num-
ber of questions affecting recreation in its publication Re-
source-Use Policies: Their Formation and Impact. For
example: Is the economic develOpment of a community more
important than social or esthetic considerations? Do we
want waterfalls or power projects? Do we want grass and
trees or strip coal mines? Resort hotels or untouched
beaches? A new lake or the old family homestead?

The publication comments: “Meanwhile, the drive for
economic gain has seriously decreased the number of rec-
reational facilities and areas of natural beauty available to
the general public. Unfortunately, there are no universally
accepted or right answers to these problems and each sep-
arate case requires a new evaluation of the evidence. When
we consider all the difficulties involved it is little wonder
that the progress of the movement is sometimes slow.”

Recreation Use of Wildlands

The Wildlife Research Center at the University of Cali-

fornia in Berkeley has issued a report entitled Conserving
Wildland Resources Through Research. In a section relat-
ing to recreation it states:

“Recreation is exploding across California wildlands in
a way that couldn’t have been foreseen a few years ago.
Recreational activities are accelerating at a far greater
rate than any other wildland use. And in some wildland
areas, dollar returns for recreational uses are exceeding any
previous commodity production values.”

The report lists a number of questions recreation usc is
posing each day, which must be answered with only a mea-
ger scientific background available, such as: “How much
and what kind of lands should be devoted exclusively to
recreation? What are the effects of recreation use on soil,
plant cover, and other elements of the resource, and how
can such effects be minimized? Can the ‘carrying capacity”
of the land for recreational use be increased by modification
of thc plant cover or by other means? . . .”

APRIL 1960

 

L-

 

FOR SUPERIOR DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION
AND PERFORMANCE . . . FAR GREATER
STRENGTH . . . UNEQUALELED SAFE-TY. . .

  

H
I... I -. " 
J - "" .  .
. I, _ .
. .I' J I . 'I‘ ' . .
' ‘I .
. i, 3 _I or“ ,f . .. ”

Write for Folder
0!! AMERICANS
JIM PATTERSON

lIFE'I'IME
Aluminum
D I V I N G

B O A R D
WORLD'S FINEST

OFFICIAL BOARD

 
   
     
   
   
   
     

 

  

AMEHIIIAN

 

PARK, PICNIC,
PLAYGROUND
AND SWIMMING
POOL EQUIPMENT

Since 1911 the finest equipment built,
backed by lifetime guarantee against
defective materials and canstructian

. specified by leading recreational
authorities for almost half a century.

Send for New Catalog

r—c.

AMERICAN
PLAYGROUND oewce co.

ANDERSON, INDIA-NA, U. S. A.r

home's mars: MANUFACTURERS or ran:
our, PICNIC, PLAYGROUND, swmmno

 

When writing to Our advertisers please mention [tram mm.

POOL AND DRESSING ROOM EQUIPMENT

 

 

Easi-Fold Rolling

TABLE TENNIS TABLE

Easy as 1-2-3 . . . for busy institutional worker or harried house-
wife. Folds automatically! Has large wheels on steel chassis;
solid-edge protected steel frame; built-in. metal-end net; granite-
~ hard Formium playing surface. Write today for color catalog.

SUPERIOR INDUSTRIES CORPORATION
520 Caster Street, New Yark 59. N. Y. 0 DAyton 9-5100

 

] 83

 

   

A REPORTER’S NOTEBOOK

 

Playground Swap Shop

Last summer the youngsters of the
Patterson Park Playground in Balti-
more, Maryland, held their first “Tom
Sawyer Day” swap shop in which they
could trade “good toys and games” they
were tired of for those other youngsters
were tired of. Children from three to
thirteen swarmed onto the playground
to swap story hooks, games, toy trucks,
dolls, comic books, and so on.

The affair was organized like an auc-
tion. Each child brought his item for—
ward, and the auctioneer authorized the
first child who raised his hand to try
and arrange an exchange. \Vhen thc
exchange was agreed upon, each child
received two tickets; if none, one ticket
each. The tickets were later used when
wrapped toys and trinkets, donated by

the Patterson Park Mothers9 Club, were
auctioned off.

Playground Craft Service

Last year the Wooster, Ohio, Depart-
ment of Parks and Recreation inaugu-
rated a craft service system on its play-
grounds. Each week it made one free
eraft available to each child, and addi-
tional craft materials, bought in large
quantities by the department, were
packaged into kits, and sold to thc chil-
dren at a portion of the department’s

 

Free craft period. This is one of the
multipurpose rooms in eight elemen-
tary sehools made available for sum-

mer playground use in Wooster, Ohio.

1 84.

costs. The youngsters could pay cash
or buy a one-dollar credit card, which
was then kept on file at the playground.
Thus they had a wider choice of crafts
to work with, both free and purchased.
Wooster also conducted storytelling
and ropc-jumping contests
with charts to measure achievement.

contests

On the Move

The Cincinnati Recreation Commis-
sion bought two new pieces of oil-beat
transportation equipment for its new
“Land of Makc Bclievc” at the Airport
Playfield—ofi-bcat in the sense that
they are not standard playground
cquipmen t, but nonetheless what young-
sters consider fascinating to clambcr
over. The first was a stagecoach au-
thentically constructed to three-quar-
ters actual scale. The other vchiclc
acquired, as of December 1959, is a real
1929 Ahrens-Fox pumpcr-ladder fire
engine.

Currently, the commission is trying
to locate a small steam engine and an
outmodcd jet plane among other things.
Anyone wishing further information
about how and where to acquire an ob-
solete jet plane should get in touch with
Miss Bctty Bunn, Public Information
and Information, National Recreation

Association, 8 West 8th Strcct, New
York 11.

Salute to Dade County

Dadc County, Florida, has bcen cited
by the National Swinnning Pool lnsti-
tutc for having the nation’s outstanding
water-safety public-rclations program
for 1959. More than eleven thousand
children in the Miami area reccived be-
ginncr, intermcdiate, swinnner, and
junior lifcsaving certificates sincc last
June 1; more than seventeen thousand
first-gradch received “Rockpit Ranger”
buttons and pledgcs last year; and more
than forty thousand children within the

county participated in the overall pro-
gram.

A special water-safety coordinating
committee, headed by Arthur Peavy,
Jr., Dade County parks and recreation
director, was established to create com-
munity awareness of the water-safety
prohlem. There are six hundred miles
of shoreline, 279 miles of canals, plus
numerous rockpit areas within the
county. The award-winning committee
enlisted countywide aid in organizing
and promoting youth and adult water-
safety programs, “Rockpit Ranger”
memberships, swimming and lifesaving
classes. It became a success through
the c00peration of city and county offi-
cials, civic groups, schools, the Red
Cross, press, radio, and TV.

Dade County won another salute
when its park system was rated among
the top ten in the United States in
beauty and maintenance, according to
H arvcy S. Crass, president of thc Amer-
ican Institute of Park Executives. He
pointed out that Dade’sl well-planned
parks wcre country parks a few years
ago. Today, thcy havc becomc sur-
roundcd by ncw home developments
and are fast being encroached Upon
from all directions.

Mr. Crass tcrmed Dade County’s
parks “one of the best maintained sys-

tems l have ever sccn.” He said Met-

 

h’est in the nation! Arthur Peavy, .lr.
(left), director of the Dade County
Park and Recreation Department. pre-
sents gold medal for best water pub-
lie-relations program of 1959 to Ben
MeCahey, eounty eommission ehair-
ntan, on behalf of National Swimming
Pool Institute. Looking on are Ed Shea
and Mrs. Marion Wood lluey. members
of water-safety eoordinating eontmittee.

RECREATION

ropolitan Miami was fortunate to have
Vizcaya (Dade County Art Museum)
and its thirty-acre formal gardens
under a park system operation where
the character of one of thc area’s great-
est showplaces could be preserved for-
ever, in the estate tradition, and prop-
erly maintained.

Boys’ Club Centennial

A four-cent commemorative multi-
color postage stamp honoring the 100th
anniversary of the Boys” Clubs of Amer-
ica will appear in mid-1960. The initial
priut order will be for 120,000,000
stamps. The Boys’ Club movement be-
gan in the 1860’s in Hartford, Connec-
ticut. In 1906 some fifty such clubs
joined to form a national organization.
Today there are 542 boys’ clubs serving
more than a half million boys, and a
new club is established every two weeks.

Flashes from the Fifty

' MICHIGAN. The new president of the
Recreation Association of Michigan is

Harry L. Burns of Grand Rapids.

° TEXAS. Reese Martin, city superin-
tendent of parks and recreation in
Beaumont, has been appointed a mem-
ber of the Texas State Parks Board—a
five-member policy-making hody gov-
erning the state’s park program.

° NEBRASKA. On February 25, Mrs.
Paul Gallagher—National Recreation
Association board member —— was
named as this year’s recipient of Oma-
ha’s B’nai B’rith Citizenship Citation.
The annual award is given in recogni-
tion of outstanding service in commu-
nity affairs and in the field of human
relations.

- PENNSYLVANIA. The State Council of
Education has initiated a program of
certification for recreation leaders em-
ployed by school districts. At present
certification is nonmandatory and on a
trial basis. Recreation leaders who are
not now working for school districts are
encouraged to apply as the number of
applications will affect the decision as
to whether to continue certification.

° lDAIIO. In Twin Falls the Jaycees
recently gave superintendent of rec-
reation Ernest C. Craner their senior
distinguished service award for his out-
standing work. He is a member of the
Association’s Pacific Northwest Dis-
trict Advisory Committee and was pres-

APRIL 1960

   
   

GD was

POXOLON

Yes, unique knowledge of techniques

for solving difficult pool finish problems
has made The Kelley Paint Co. a dependable
link in the maintenance of park and
municipal pools.

Our own special epoxy formulation, POXOLON
is a roll-on “ceramic like” glaze which retains
its fresh “new paint” appearance year after
year without recoating. Your pool’s radiant
sparkle and attractive appearance will be a
tribute to your excellent judgment in selecting
POXOLON. POXOLON is getting to be known

by the company it keeps. It is getting around
/ in the best circles. Ask any of the older, more

eXperienced and better informed members of
the swimming pool industry. They are familiar
I with the POXOLON record of achievement. It’s
the ultimate in fine pool finishes.

to COLORS!

THE W PAINT co.

_..F/NE PAINT MAKERS...

Write for FREE
Hondy Pool Pointing Guide

LOUISVILLE TO, KY.

 

  

 
   

-
_ _ f“ "a “ .r o‘ .- ‘
' i ‘1‘ .
v I -
I_ I
II \ ‘ ‘t r i ' .
- ' s D
' u t ‘ s "-
let“;
a“ ‘ ‘ ‘5‘?“
Ur“ -

Write for '_ in

I nnnonnl.

Spa-«.130 Coma/HM '
I o- 361 NORTH MARGUETTE. FOND DU LAE. WIS.

Keep ’em SINGING

with these all-time favorite

SONG SLIDES

wonderful hours of fun for
young and old alike

2” x 2" slides ........ .. 50¢/slide
3%” x 4” slides . ,. . Loo/slide

WRITE FOR CATOLOGUE 5

NATIONAL STUDIOS

42 West 48th Street
New York 36, N. Y.

JUdson 2-1926

use cotolog. I

 

 

Portable
Hat and Coat Racks

These multi-purpose wardrobe racks go
wherever needed or store away like folding
chairs when not in use. They come in 3 ft.
or 4 ft. lengths. have two hat shelves and
1 or 2 full length hanger bars fOr coat
hangers or coat hooks. {Two sided hooks
snap over and straddle the bar. see detail*.
Standard units come on lides or casters:
stand rigidly under a full and. CHECKER-
ETTES are also available in two sided units
(double capacity : add-on units for making
long continuous racks. and matching wall
mount units.

Write for Cotolog. CT-515

VOGEl-PETERSON CO.

Rt. 83 and Madison Streets, Elmhurst, III.

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 180

ident of the Idaho State Recreation
Society in 1957-58.

' MISSOURI. The big recreation news
in St. Louis these days is the fact that
the St. Louis Board of Education has
accepted a proposal of the city’s depart-
ment of parks, recreation, and forestry
to operate fifty-two summer play-
grounds on school facilities. These will
be in addition to the forty-five park
playgrounds already operated by the
city. The recreation department will
supply personnel, supplies, and admin-
istration.

' NEW JERSEY. Retired National Rec-
reation Association district representa-

tive J. W. Faust of
East Orange has

been reappointed
to a five-year term
as a member of the
local board of rec-
reation commis-
sioners. “J. W.” may be retired, but is
certainly not inactive!

 

' INDIANA. Three hundred and fifty-six
park and recreation administrators and
technicians from twenty-one states and
four Canadian provinces participated
in the fourteenth annual Great Lakes
Park Training Institute, held at Poka-
gon State Park in Angola. Sixty-five
people cooperated on the program. The
institute is conducted by the Indiana
University department of recreation,
with the state conservation departments
and state park and recreation associa-
tions and their respective Midwest and
national associations as cosponsors.

In-Serviee Training

Eleven representatives from the
Michigan cities of Ann Arbor, Ply-
mouth, and Ypsilanti, the village of
Wayne, and the Wayne County Train-
ing School recently completed a corre-
spondence course in municipal recrea-
tion administration offered by the In-
ternational City Managers Association.
This is a part of the intercommunity
in-service training program established
by top government administrators from
several communities in southeastern
Michigan. The course in recreation ad-
ministration is only one of many such
correspondence courses in administra-
tion offered by lCMA. The purpose of

these courses is to train career em-

186

ployees, promote high standards of pro-
fessionalization, and, ultimately, to pro-
vide better public service.

Focus on Youth

' The Youth Bureau and Recreation
Commission in Corning, New York, up-

holds “The Children’s Bill of Rights”
and the “Children’s Bill of Responsi-
bilities” and has printed them on the
back of its attractive letterhead (done
in sepia ink). Thus, director Caesar R.
George and his staff circulate this phil-
osophy with each letter they write.

° In Oceanside, New York, last year
fifty-four boys and girls, from sixteen
to eighteen years old, assembled in the
Little Theatre to take a written exami-
nation for the position of junior play-
ground leader. The test took an hour
and twenty minutes. lt was in four
parts: twenty multiple-choice ques-
tions, two essay questions involving
judgment, a diagram on which a listing
of playground facilities had to be lo-
cated, and a special posterhoard on
which each had to prepare a layout ad-
vertising a playground circus. Maxi-
mum score on first section was sixty,
second section twenty, and third and
fourth sections countcd tcn each.

Of the fifty-four youngsters taking

./¢%V

EXTRA!

the exam, two scored in the nineties,
twenty in the eighties, and thirty-two
in the seventies. Seven junior play-
ground leaders were chosen, their se-
lection depending upon the test score,
an interview, and past experience.
These seven were paid thirty dollars a
week for six five-day, thirty-hour weeks.
All those not chosen were invited to
serve as “apprentices”—volunteers.

The junior-leader plan worked with
great success in most instances, and rec-
reation director Joe Halper plans to re-
peat the project this year.

SOS

In an urgent now-or-never message
to the state legislature, New York’s
Governor Nelson Rockefeller requested
a $75,000,000 bond issue for the im-
mediate acquisition of park and ree-
reation land. A survey by the state
conservation department and State
Council of Parks shows a desperate lack
of “almost every kind of public outdoor
facility.” The bond issue, if authorized
by the legislature, will he submitted to
the ‘voters in the general election next
Novemher. The governor stressed that
the situation requires “action now or
the loss forever of the opportunity to
meet the recreation needs of the state
economically.”

QS&~.

As we go to press, a special edition (February 29, 1960) of the
Vallejo Times Herald reaches us, announcing in banner headlines
that the distinguished award of “All America City for 1959” has just
heen presented to that California city along with ten others.“ Val-
lejo’s award cites its drive for annexation and unification which led
to vigorous civic improvement. One entire fourteen-page section of
this thick edition (almost as {at as Snnday’s New York Times) appears
under a red, two-inch head, “Vallejo, a City for Leisure,” and carries
a full, laudatory report of the activities and achievements of the
Greater Vallejo Recreation District, of which our good friend, Keith
Macdonald, is the executive director. According to all accounts, his
department projects are booming, its accomplishment and growth are
outstanding, and community participation is thriving. Congratula-
tions, and well done, Keith; the recreation profession may well be

proud of you!

*Alton and East St. Louis, Illinois; De Soto, Missouri; Fargo, North Dakota:
Lamar, Colorado; Norfolk, Virginia; San Juan, Puerto Rico; Santa Fe Springs.
California: Metropolitan Seattle, Washington; and Winston-Salem, North Caro-

lina.

RECREATION

RECREATION For The

III and Handicapped

+ The staff of the National Recreation
Association Consulting Service on Rec-
reation for the III and Handicapped has
been on the road a great deal of late.
Perhaps you have been meeting some
of them. Elliott Cohen spent the past
month in California in consultation
with various community agencies, such
as the Braille Institute of America and
the Crippled Children’s Society. He
also spent some time at San Jose State
College helping with the development
of a graduate program in recreation for
the ill and handicapped, spoke at the
NRA Pacific Southwest Recreation
Conference. Doris Berryman visited
Charlottesville, Virginia, to work with
the Virginia Commission on the Visu-
ally Handicapped, as part of the Con-
sulting Service’s sheltered workshop
project. She also pitched in at the
NRA Great Lakes District Conference
in St. Paul. Frances Arje took off for
Muskegon, Michigan, and then to Min-
neapolis, to gather information about
sheltered workshops in those communi-
ties. Morton Thompson will head for
Massachusetts to conduct a workshop
on games at Westborough State Hospi-
tal there. He will also conduct an insti-
tute on recreation for the aging in
Toledo, Ohio. Alice Burkhardt recently
conducted an institute for persons
working with the blind in Albany, New
York. I, myself, have been in Pennsyl-
vania developing services for the aged
in nursing homes and am about to take
part in the White House Conference on

Children and Youth in Washington.

+ In February the Consulting Service
held a very successful meeting with
representatives of the National Associa-
tion of Recreation Therapists, Recrea-
tion Therapy Section of the American
Association for Health, Physical Edu-
cation, and Recreation, and the Hospi-
tal Section of the American Recreation
Society. Among the fundamental ques-
tions discussed were a basic philosophy
of recreation for the ill and handi-
capped and the best academic prepara-
tion for persons entering this field. A
report of the conclusions of these dis-
cussions has been sent to the executive

 

MRS. HILL is director, National Recre-
ation Association Consulting Service on
Recreation for the Ill and Handicapped.

APRIL 1960

Beatrice H. Hill

committee of each of the organizations
for final approval, and a condensed ver-
sion of the statements as finally ap-
proved, will be available to anyone
requesting it. A number of informal
discussions also concerned possible
amalgamation of the three organiza-
tions. Obviously, everyone will have to
give a little, and it is hoped the execu-
tive committees will have developed a

workable plan by spring.

4‘ In August the Consulting Service
will conduct a demonstration at the
Eighth World Congress of the Interna-
tional Society for the Welfare of Crip-
ples at the Hotel Waldorf-Astoria in
New York. This is the first time this
international congress has been held in
the United States, and the Consulting
Service hopes, through a variety of
demonstrations using patients, that
many of our friends from other nations
will see what recreation can do for the

ill and handicapped.

'i‘ A new Consulting Service project
concerns adult narcotic addicts. Work-
ing in a general hospital, CS is ex-
ploring recreation’s role both in the
hospital and in the after-care program.
Using the experimental and control
method, it will provide recreation serv-
ice to a selected number of discharged
patients, and evaluate the behavioral
differences between these patients and
discharged patients not receiving rec-
reation follow-up service.

4‘ Are you affiliated for service?
NRA’s Consulting Service is making an
all-out effort to educate the professional
and the layman to the value of recrea-
tion for the ill and handicapped. One
of our new services for affiliates, in ad-
dition to their monthly copy of RECREA-
TION Magazine, will be a quarterly
newsletter concerning recreation in the
medical setting (in addition to many
other services). To be more effective
in education, program, and legislation,
the Service needs everyone to be affili-
ated for service. Are you?

+ Don’t forget the recruitment contest
(see March issue). Contestants ac-
ceptcd Now. Prizes will be awarded
January 1961. Please send in your

names. #

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

  

TENNIS FOR TEACHERS

Eniarged Ed., I959 Printing . . . . . . . . . "$5.00
The authoritative text in use in 40 countries.

——This book gives stroke mechanics and
strategy; teaching methods for handling
large groups of pupils on one court. In-
cluded are 90 action photos and diagrams;

Official Tennis Rules, graphic wall chart
with 18 sketches.

TENNIS SELF-INSTRUCTOR

A handbook for players, 109 pp. . . . . . .32.00
PLAYERS WHO WANT TO IMPROVE

——This self instruction handbook gives
simple directions for learning the nine
tennis strokes and improving your court
strategy in both singles and doubles. 43
action photos and illustrations that show
how champions play their shots.

H. I. DRIVER CO.
803 Moygara Rd. Madison 4, Wis.

or w
BASKETBALL

STEEL CHAIN
NETS

3 Years Guaranlul

outdoors or Indoors
Also eaturin Ja fro's custom built

w'NYLON BASKETBALL NETS 8- BALL CARRIERS
VALUMINUM MULTI-PURPOSE STANDARDS

MTETHERBALL POLES 8- PADDLE SETS
VWATER BASKETBALL STANDARDS
VALUMINUM BATTING TEES

 

‘ Send far Free Catalog ‘

JAYFRO ATHLETIC SUPPLY CO.-
Dept. R, Box l065. NEW LONDON, CONN.

 

    

till. K-3 that!
tmrrm MISONITE
rusrlcurn tar

  

 



   

WW ' FOLDING TABLE LINE

79:95?“ Kitchen committees. social groups. atten-
' tion! l-tlctory prices & discnul'ult. up Eta-10"?

DIRECT PRICES to( hunches Schtxuls. Clubs. ch. Morin-e

DISCOUNTS I TERMS all-new MILD-KING Banquet Tables.
with CKL‘IUNIVI: new automatic toldiny' and

locking. super strength, cast: seating. on models and sires.

BIG NEW 1960 CATALOG FREE

(‘oIor pictures. Full line tables. chairs. table and chair trucks. {II it.-
form-risers. portable DIITI'lTlII'I'I'h. hullctin minds. Our S‘wd scar.

‘I’HE MONROE (20., 181 Church St, Colfax, lows

 

 

Recreation leaders from Boston to
Los Angeles use this means of solv-
ing many playground problems.

THE MORALE BUILDER

to.

Ten Minutes of Special Coaching Can Pro-
duce a Kalah Enthusiast.

SEND FOR LEAFLET Na. I2. Shows how ano In-
spired poner can develop valunteer helpers wha
will start a wave of sustained interest that may
spread over a city.

KALAHgBOARD
qéoépén:

- Simple Kalah rules reprinted
from UNICEF Recreation Man-
ual supplied with each order.

ituH GAME co.

131 State St... Boston. Mass.

 

187

 

 

NEWS

F or further information regarding
any of these products, write directly
to the manufacturer. Please mention
that you saw it in RECREATION.

Jean Wachtel

 

' Designed for children aged
two to ten, Saddle-Mates are
made of tough fiberglass, col-
orfully finished with a special
epoxy resin coating, which
practically guarantees long
wear and weather resistance.
The equipment is mounted on
sturdy steel springs with steel
mounting plates. Models are
available with either portable,
no-tip bases, or without base
for permanent installation in
cement. Springs are specially
designed to provide a pleasant rocking motion yet won’t
pinch curious small fingers. Children can rock happily‘on
Saddle-Mates, which come as horses, donkeys, camels,
swans, or ducks, and in various colors. For descriptive lit-
erature in full color and detailed specifications, write Camc-
time, lnc., Litchfield, Michigan.

 

' Two functional pieces of equip-
ment for teaching novice players
proper batting techniques are the
Jayfro aluminum Batting Tee and
the “Skill Trainer” Game Target.
The tec, permanently attached at
the base to an official-size rubber
home plate, is adjustable from 25”
to 42”. The unit comes equipped
with a rubber-covered official base-
ball, securely fastened to 20 feet of
nylon cord, connected to a spring
and stake. The latter is driven into
the ground between the batter’s feet and the ball returns to
the batter regardless of how hard it is hit. The target is
made of extra heavy-gauge vinyl and measures 6’ by 41/3’.
Both of these devices are excellent for baseball batting prac-
tice in playgrounds as well as practice on the diamond it-
self. Write for further information to Jayfro Athletic Supply
Company, P. O. Box 1065, New London, Connecticut.

 

MAI-j

' Visually handicapped children can safely join in the fun
of bicycle riding, thanks to the new T-P Bicycle assembly.

    
      

188

This unit was developed by Dr. Frank E. Dudley, president
of the Franklin Manufacturing Company, and will be made
by that company. Adaptable for one to eighteen bicycles,
the assembly consists of a hexagonal aluminum framework
which rotates around a center post. Aluminum rods fast-
ened to the front and rear of the bicycles keep them erect
with no danger of tipping or falling. A telescoping feature
permits adjustment of the riding area to different size cir-
cles. For complete details, write the company at 12 Center
Street, Westmont, New Jersey.

0 Camps and large
outdoor recreation
areas often com-
prlsc extenswe
stretches of land,
difficult to get
around on in the
standard automo-
bile. \Vith these re-
quirements in
mind, the Crofton
Marine Engine
Company has dc-
vcloped a small utility vehicle of functional design, called
the “Bug,” with the general appearance of a half-size war-
time ,lcep. lts specifications are: weight, 1100 pounds; car-
ries a quarter-ton payload; overall length, 111”; wheelbase,
63”; 40” trcad and 48” overall width. It is powered by a
35-hp overhead cam, liquid-cooled, 4-cylinder gasoline en-
gine, which drives in the conventional manner through a
three-speed transmission. Optional equipment includes a
Powr-Lok differential and dual rear wheels to provide trac-
tion in sand, on rough trails, and in wet grass. For complctc
details, write the company at 888 Cull Street, San Diego 1,
California.

 

0 Since an ever-increasing number of rccreation agencies
and departments are directly or indirectly involved with
camping, they are in a position to recommend various kinds
of equipment to the individual camper or camping group.
Or, often, the recreation agency rents it out. The following
necessary item could be used for either function. The 925
Sievert stove is easy to refill, ignites instantly, has an ad-
justablc flame, is completely windproof, burns approxi-
mately fifty-five hours on one filling of propane gas—long
enough to last four weeks with reasonable use. Compact
and easy to carry, it can be converted to a lantern with an
80-watt capacity. Swedish made, the stove complies with
the standards of the chdish Explosives Inspectorate and
the Swedish Workman’s Safety Board. The same company
also makes a two-burner, propane stove, as well as stoves
and lanterns for kerosene, alcohol, and gasoline. For all de-
tails, write thc United States distributor cho-Thcrm, Inc.,

986 Ogden Avenue, Napcrville, lllinois.

RECREATION

 

INDEX OF ADVERTISERS

   

Page NEW (Hi-PAGE
REFERENCE GUIDE
American Playground Device ............ -- 183
Casiello Fencing Equipment ___-_____-__ 152  u -..I.- ‘ . s I.
Chicago Roller Skates _.____.____.... Back Cover ' Gm APPARATUS ' SWEDI H

GYMNASTIC UNIFORMS ° COILING DOORS
GRANDSTANDS 0 PLAYGROUND EQUIPMENT 0

the PLAYMATE line

 

 

 

 

 

 
     
  
 
 
   

 

 

 

V .___._.___.__....,.--_____ .._‘__-__. FOLDING BLEACHERS 0 BASKETBALL BACKSTOPS
Cle eland Crafts 148 PLAYGROUND EQUIPMENT
REOUND TUHBLING UNITS 0 SCOREBOARDS 0
Comm Industries 145 WEIGHTLIFTING EQUIPMENT - LOCKERS The DELMER.F' HARRIS co'
-—~—-----—--- ~— - Concordia, Kansas
03 ,0" me, Rat m 150 ornnrsnc SUPPLY COMPANY  i.»-  .
V q '''' H I “r 250 Sixth Street San Pedro. California
Delmer F. Harris ________.__.._. __ _ 189
- N , ' C! G Id A CI b Pi .
DImco-Gray ___..-..-_..._._  . 150    N3: :Lm522i°gora° aid. 35:». in. in
. . 930m legal-loan; gnomes}! Saflety catché
Emblem 3. Badge _.___ ____ __  130 seeking a book publisher 34,3“, '  "'9 °  '°" “"
'E‘OWO fbaletiliilled, iglusltratetd4bgcgchureiigell how Minimum order 10 pins
- o u you 00 , 0Y3. 193. 118.. ' ' .
EXPOSIIIOH Press --———-—.-.-. .- -  tiorlial ddvertisling. puglicity Enid promotion. Ava”;ng Mlypgagzregmcgum
Free editorial appraisal. Write Dept. IBM-4 J s s '
- - - EXACT SIZE 22 N. 6th Street Philadelphia 6, Pa.
F. H_ Noble __‘_______________l  m __ d_ 132 Exposition Press / 386 Ark Ave.. N.Y. 16 I
FLXIBIE ______.._----_h__-___.-.__-._____ .--___...._-  180 ‘
Gold Medal Products _. ____ __- __  __ 148 Change Of Address IMPORTANT!
If you are planning to move, notify us . .
   at least thirty days before the date 0f We are  to glve reprlnt
 a - Pi“? iSSQEIWiEI} Will? it :5 ‘0 E3159 9339‘, permission wherever possible, but
1 pos51 e, 1n or er 0 receive your . .
Harper 8‘ BIOIherS "m" 182 magazines without interruption. Send Pleas‘3 Cheek With us before “5mg
.  your Old 311d new addresses I)}" let- any material in  On
H- I- Drwer vvvvv -——-—-- mm 187 ter, card or post oiiice form 22S to: . d
O . . Subscription Department RECREATION some rare 0003510115: We 0 “Qt
Hrllerlch 8. Bradst _- lnsrde Front Cover yaiazliiieNBYW/est Eighth street. New hold copyright!—The Editors
or , . .
James Spencer ____ __ .   189
Jayfro Athletic Supply _  187
mm M, CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
. . “Pu—“mm”.- - M RATES: Words in regular type $.15 each DEADLINES: Copy must be received by
Words in boldface type $25 each the fifth of the month preceding date or
Kalah Games . 187
v """" m " Minimum ad accepted . .. $3.00 the issue in which ad is desired.
Kelley Paint _._. -__..-.. .. I85 COPY: Type—or clearly print—your message and the address to which you wish
replies sent. Underline any words you want to appear in boldface type.
Monroe ~--—-—-—--~---- - 187 Send copy with remittance to:
National Sports 185 RECREATION Classified Advertising, 8 West Eighth Street, New York 11, New York.
N 1. I 81 d. 185 HELP WANTED Recreation Worker I, in lent combination of experi-
a "ma u '05 ""-  R . Tl . t hospital-school for severely ence and training. \pply
_ “rain”, wrap” .3 handicapped educable chiI- to: Personnel Director, 105
Program AIdS __._._-. _-- -. ISI :0; Cagforma Sfatet Hoslpl' dren ages 5-21 years. CoI- City Hall, Omaha 2, Ne-
3 3- Pportumtl’ 0 P an lege graduate, major in Irraska.
Recreation Equipmen1_ 146 331d CODdUCIOdeVldual 133' group work or recreation
tlent recreatlon as well as preferred. Write. Illinois SERVICES
Rheem Califone 151 special group actIVItles; Children's Hospital-School, AVAILABLE
"mm" ' modern equipment and fa- 2551 North Clark Street, SquareDanceCaller,co].
Skelley Sales 151 cllltles available. Posrtzons Chicago 14, Illinms. lege, club. or convention.
we...” ope}? to .cololege graduates P k N l (:3 0 Piute Pete, 55 West Eighth
. . wit major at recreation or ar r atura ist: .. 7 - street, NeW York 1]' New
Superlor Indusmes ' 183 recreation therapy, which $465. We want a man un- York.
. included supervised geld der 55 who has had two ‘ a t o ‘
T- F-Twardz'k -- ---- -‘ 146 work. No experience re- years' experience in con- ‘I’OSITION \FAN'IED
quired. Starting salary ducting recreational poro- .(mni‘ralcounselrngpomtion
Vogel-Peierson .__... .. .- -- I85 $415.00 per month; promo- grams or courscs involving in summer .camp. (.nollege
tional Opportunities; Iiber- nature study. Must have senior. Previous esperience
VOII 152 al employment benefits. graduated from a recog- in college counseling. Lan
mar-"~- --- -' ' write state Personnel nized college or universn)’ Natl]: Ingt‘banb )baiithlhan-
' ' nhard, 801 Capitol Avenue, with major work in natural trac *. or T L, o (5g! ,
wenger MUSIC Equlpmem " ' ' “ 151 Sacramento, California. science or haxe an equiva- Grinnell, Iowa.
The publisher assumes no responsibility for services or items advertised here.
________________________..____
APRIL 1960 When writing to our advertimrs please mention RECREATION. 189

Magazine Articles

 

AMERICAN FORESTS, February 1960
Operation Wildlife, Daniel A. Poole.
Mending a Mountain, Robert C. Blair.

A Sccond Look at Multiple Use, Howard
Stagner.
Conserving and Using our Open Spaces.

ARTS AND ACTIVITIES, March 1960
Special Ceramics Issue

MENTAL HOSPITALS, February 1960
The Geriatric Patient—Psychiatric and So-

cial Problems.

PARK MAINTENANCE, February 1960
Outstanding Park Is Gift to Boise, Gordon

S. Bowen.
Fireman’s Slide Delights Cedar Rapids
Children, Nancy Gibbons Zook.

SENIOR CITIZEN, March 1960
Automation in America, Tom Meyer.
Second Childhood, W. W. Bauer, M .D.

WOMAN’S DAY, March 1960
Children’s Play Furniture.

Books & Pamphlets
Received

Adolescence, Teen-Agers

ADOLESCENCE AND DISCIPLINE, Rudolph M.
Wittenberg. Association Prcss, 291 Broad-
way, New York 7. Pp. 318. $4.95.

ADOLESCENCE TO MATURITY, V. C. Chamber-
lain. Penguin Books, 3300 Clippcr Mill
Rd, Baltimore 11. Pp. 94. $.65.

LET’S FACE 1T (Guide to Good Grooming for
Negro Girls), Elsie Archer. J. B. Lippin-
cott, E. Washington Sq., Philadelphia. Pp.
186. $2.95.

MCCALL’s GUIDE TO TEEN-AGE BEAUTY 8:
GLAMOUR, Betsy Keiffer. Prcntice-Hall,
Englewood Cliffs, N. J. Pp. 161. $3.95.

PREMARITAL DATING BEHAVIOR, Winston Ehr-
mann, Ph.D. Henry Ho1t, 383 Madison Ave.,
New York 17. Pp. 316. $6.00.

PSYCIIOLOGY OF ADOLESCENCE (5th ed.), Lu-
ella Colle. Rinehart, 232 Madison Ave.,
New York 16. Pp. 731. $7.00.

SIIE-MANNERS, Robert H. Locb, Jr. Associa-
tion Press, 291 Broadway, New York 7. Pp.
188. $3.50.

YOUTH IN COMMUNITY AFFAIRS. Committee
on Youth Serviccs, National Social Wclfare
Assembly, 345 E. 46th St., New York 17.
Pp. 15. $.25.

Areas and Facilities

BOOK OF LANDSCAPE DESIGN, TIIE, 11. Stuart

Ortloff and Henry B. Raymore. M. Barrows,
425 Park Ave. S., New York 16. Pp. 316.
$3.95.

HOW TO PLAN MODERN HOME GROUNDS,
Henry B. Aul. Sheridan House, 257 Park
Ave. S., New York 10. Pp. 312. $4.00.

LANDSCAPE DESIGN (rev. ed.) , Henry V. Hub-
bard and Theodore Kimball. Hubbard Edu-
cational Trust, 9 Park St., Boston 8. Pp.
419. $7.50 ($5.00 to students).

MAINTENANCE MEN LOOK AT HOUSING DE-
SIGN (3rd ed.). Natl. Assoc. of Housing 8:

190

RedeveIOpment OBicials, 1313 E. 60th St.,
Chicago 37. Pp. 40. Paper, $2.50.

SPORTS AND RECREATION FACILITIES: For
School and Community, M. Alexander Gab-
rielsen and Caswell M. Miles. Prentice-

Hall, Englewood Cliffs, N. J. Pp. 370. $9.00.
SWIMMING POOLS. Lane Publishing, Men1o

Park, Calif. Pp. 112. Paper, $1.95 (library
ed. $3.50).

Books for Children and Young People

 

ALASKA, Bernadine Bailey. Albert Whitman,
560 W. Lake, Chicago 6. Unpaged. $1.25.

BABY DRAGON, THE, Witold T. Mars. Hough-
ton Miiiiin, 2 Park St., Boston 7. Pp. 30.
$2.75.

BARNEY, BRING YOUR BANJO, May Justus.
Henry Holt, 383 Madison Ave., New York
17. Pp. 61. $2.50.

BLUE CIIIMNEY, Gladys Baker Pond. Holiday
House, 8 W. 13th St., New York 11. Pp.
164. $2.75.

EMPEROR AND THE NIGIITINGALE, TIIE, Hans
Christian Andersen. Pantheon Books, 333
6th Ave., New York 14. Unpaged. $2.95.

E0 OF THE CAYES, Florence Wightman Row-
land. Henry Z. Walck. 101 5th Ave., New
York 10. Pp. 160. $3.00.

FAVORITE FAIRY TALES TOLD IN FRANCE;
TOLD IN GERMANY: TOLD IN ENGLAND; all
retold by Virginia l'1avilnnd. Little, Brown,
34 Beacon St., Boston 6. $2.75 each.

FRIENDS AROUND TIIF. WORLD, llclen Doss.
Abingdon Press, 201 8th Ave. S.. Nashvillc,
Tenn. Unpaged. $1.50.

GIRL IN TIIE WIIITE HAT, W. T. Cummings.
McGraw-l-lill, 330 W. 42nd St., New York
36. Pp. 32. $2.25.

GOLDEN ANNIVERSARY BOOK OF SCOUTING,
TIIE, Ii. D. Bezuclta. Golden Press, 630 5th
Ave., New York 20. Pp. 165. $4.95.

GOOD MANNERS: The Magic Key, Margaret
Stephenson and Ruth Millett. McKnight
and McKnight, Routc 66 & Tonawanda
Avc., BlOOInington, lll. Pp. 72. Paper, $.80.

HANS ANDERSEN: Forty-Two Storics, trans-
latcd by M. R. James. A. S. Barncs, 11 E.
36th St.. New York 16. Pp. 346. $3.95.

HAPPY BIRTHDAY UMRRELLA. TIIE, David Cor-
nel DeJong. Atlantic-Little, Brown, 34 Bea-
eon St., Boston 6. Pp. 50. $2.75.

HOW THE MANN CAT LOST lTS TAIL. retold
by Blanchc Young. David McKay. 119 W.
40th St., New York 18. Pp. 114. $2.75.

ISAAC NEWTON, Beulah Tannenbaum and
Myra Stillman. McGraw-Hill, 330 W. 42nd
St., New York 36. Pp. 128. $2.00.

JAPANESE GARDEN, 'l‘IIE, Molly Brett. Fred-
erick Warnc. 210 5th Ave., New York 10.
Pp. 44. $2.50.

LAUGHING BIRD, TIIE, Anita Hewett. Sterling
Publishing, 419 4th Ave., New York. Pp.
32. $2.50.

LEARNING TO COOK THE GIRL WAY, Joy Law.
Sportshclf, Box 634, New Bocliclle, N. Y.
Pp. 63. Paper, $1.75.

I.ITTI.I-'. llEDGEIIOC, Gina Buck-Pauquet and
Mariannc Richter. Hastings Housc, 151 
50th St., New York 22. Unpaged, $2.75.

LOST BEAR, Ann Durell. Doublcday, Garden
City, N. Y. Pp. 47. $2.95.

MAGIC NIGIIT FOR LILLIRET, Gerry Turner.
Bobbs-Merrill. 1720  38th St., Indiana-
polis 6. Pp, 48. $2.95.

MORE ANIMALS FROM l'II'I:RYWIII-:RI~:. Clifford
Webb. Frederick Warne, 210 5th Ave., New
York 10. Unpaged. $2.75.

PUPTENTS AND PEBBLES. William Jay Smith.
Little, Brown, 34 Beacon St., Boston 6. Pp.
32. $2.75.

SKY IS OUR WINDOW, THE, Terry Maloney.
Sterling Publishing, 419 4th Ave., New
York 16. Pp. 128. $3.95.

THREE HAPPY LIONS, THE, Louise Fatio. Mc-
Graw-Hill, 330 W. 42nd St., New York 36.
Pp. 32. $2.25.

WE ARE ALL AMERICANS, Bettye D. Wilson.
Friendly House, 65 Suffolk St., New York
2. Unpaged. $2.50.

WORLD OF WONDERFUL DIFFERENCE, THE,
Hans Guggenheim. Friendly House, 65 Suf-
folk St., New York 2. Unpaged. $2.50.

ZOO CELEBRITIES, William Bridges. William
Morrow, 425 4th Ave., New York. Pp. 127.
$2.95.

Communities

COMMUNITY, Carl J. Friedrich. Liberal Arts
Press, 153 W. 72nd St., New York 23. Pp.
293. $5.00.

COMMUNITY ORGANIZATION 1959, (86th An-
nual Forum of National Conference on SO-
cial Welfare). Columbia Univ. Press, 2960
Broadway, Ncw York 27. Pp. 133. $2.50.

INTRODUCTION TO COMMUNITY RECREATION
(3rd ed.). George Butlcr. McGraw-Hill,
330 W. 42nd St., New York 36. Pp. 577.
$7.50.

URBAN COMMUNITY, THE: A World PerSpec-
tire, Nels Anderson. Henry Holt, 383 Mad-
ison Ave., New York 17. Pp. 500. $5.50.

Sports, Physical Education

HISTORY OF BASEBALL, TIIE, Allison Danzig &
Joe licichler. Prentice-Hall, Englewood
Cliffs, N. J. Pp. 412. $12.50.

MODERN BAIT AND SPIN CASTING, Walter R.
Breard. Comet Press, 200 Varick St., New
York 14. Pp. 207. $3.75.

NEW LIGIIT ON GETTING EXTRA MILEAGE FROM
YOUR TENNIS COURTS. U.S. Lawn Tennis
Association, 120 Broadway, Ncw York 5.
Pp. 4. Free.

NEW SMALL BOAT SAILING, TIIE, John Fisher.
John dc Grail, 31 E. 10th St., New York 3.
Pp. 176. $4.00.

PIIYSICAL EDUCATION IN URRAN ELEMENTARY
SCIIOOLS, Elsa Schneidcr, U.S. Goverumcnt
Printing Oflice, Washington 25, D.C. Pp.
91. $.45.

PRORI.EMS IN SMALL BOAT DEsIGN, Gcrald
Taylor Whitc, Editor. Sheridan House. 257
4th Ave., New York 10. Pp. 246. $6.00.

SAILING BOATS, Uifa Fox, St. Martin’s Press,
175 5th Ave., New York 10. Pp. 204. $4.50.

SPORTS ILLUSTRATED BOOK OF THE OUTDOORS,
John O’lieilly. Golden Press, 630 5th Ave..
Ncw York 20. Pp. 322. $12.50.

SPORTSNIAN’S WORLD, TIIE, 11cury 1lolt, 383
Madison Ave., New York 17. Pp. 272.
$12.50.

SPORTS OF TIIE TIMES, Arthur Daley. Button,
300 4th Ave., Ncw York 10. Pp. 270. $3.95.

SPRINGROARD DIVING, Phil Moriarty. Ronald
Press, 15 E. 26th St., Ncw York 10. Pp.
146. $4.00.

STANDARD HANDBOOK OF PLEASURE BOATS,
Robcrt J. Slicktcr. Crowcll, 432 4th Ave.,
New York 16. Pp. 341. $5.95.

UNDERWATER WORN, John E. Cayford. Cor-
ncll Maritime Prcss, Cambridge, Md. Pp.
217. $5.00.

WINNING BASKETBALL STRATEGY, Glenn Wil-
kes. PreIItiee-Hall, Englcwood Cliffs, t'. J.
Pp. 203. $4.95.

RECREATION

 

PUBLICATIONS

Covering the Leisure-time Field

They Talked to a Stranger, Len ligion apparently did not enter into

O'Connor. St Martin's Press, 175 Fifth
Avenue, New York 10. Pp. 276. $3.95.

“What makes a boy bad? What turns
a seemingly proper girl in her mid-teens
into a neighborhood slut?” After all
that is being said and done about ju-
venile delinquency perhaps the “inside
story” of the delinquent and the forces
creating him will emerge not from the
clinical case histories of social workers,
psychiatrists, or criminologists but
from the unsparing reports of seasoned

newspaper reporters without any olo-I

gyisms or doctrinal axes to grind. Such
was The Shook-Up Generation by Har-
rison Salisbury of The New York Times
(Harper’s, $3.95) , and now They
Talked to a Stranger by a veteran Chi-
cago reporter and NBC newscaster.
Both men have received many awards
for puhlic service. Among them, two
Sigma Delta Chi awards and a citation
from the National Parole and Proba-
tion Association have gone to Mr.
O’Connor and a 1955 Pulitzer Prize to
Mr. Salisbury (for his series on Russia,
later appearing in book form as Amer-

ican in Russia.)

In Shook-Up Generation, Mr. Salis-

bury dealt with rumbling street gangs,
the rootless boys and girls turning de-
linquent, and how they got that way. He
went into their backgrounds, gang pat-
terns, and the function of the street
worker, the family, church, and school
in relation to helping them. He wrote
“Side by side and working in closest
amity and collaboration with the police
in metropolitan areas, most communi-
ties need an agency like the Youth
Board in New York, handling spot ac-
tivity with youngsters on the street.”
(The story of what the recreation de-
partment in Washington, D.C., is doing
along these lines with “detached work-
ers” is described on Page 162. See also

Page 158.)

Mr. O’Connor, on the other hand
gives us tape-recorded interviews with
young offenders involved in serious
crimes.

In his perceptive introduction, Sena-
tor Paul H. Douglas says, “The homes
in which (these) youngsters live were
tawdry and unkempt. Churches and re-

APRIL 1960

their lives, and clubs for boys and girls
were not for them. They had little
chance for wholesome play. There were
no books in their homes. They seldom,
if ever, were able to relax in the quiet
of nature and to appreciate the mys-
teries and beauties of the skies and of
growing and living things. They had
only the streets~drab and unclean—-
on which to play, and only youngsters
as wild and uncared for as themselves
with whom to associate. Most of all, they
inevitably felt lonely, unloved, and re-
j ected by their families, their neighbor-
hoods, and society. This was still fur-
ther intensified for the Negro boys and
girls by the racial antagonism shown
toward them by most of the white com-
munity. It is the same with the Mexi-
can-American and Indian youth of the
Southwest and with the Puerto Ricans
in New York.”

Throughout the O’Connor interviews
one theme emerges from the limited,
pathetic, unchanneled soul-searching of
the young criminal—a feeling of root-
lessness, a desire for direction. Again
and again, the delinquent yearns for
the programed security of military serv-
ice from which he is barred by reasons
of age or record.

Quoting one of the boys, “It’s when
they are fourteen and fifteen years old
that thoughts of really doing something
bad come into their minds. They are
out of the Little League and too young
for somethin’ else and, hell, there just
ain’t any place for them to go. That’s
where you got your trouble.” They have
no place to go and they get there fast.

A police captain says, “These boys
have a very real hunger for boys’ clubs.
It is the only thing I know, the boys’
club, that will pull together the loose
ends of a delinquent’s existence and
give him a pattern that he can follow
and something he can respect. And even
all this is only a partial answer to the
lacks and absences of good elements in
his home situation.”

These books can help greatly in our
understanding of today’s potential, as
well as actual, juvenile delinquent and
young criminal and should he in the
library of every youth leader no matter
what organization he serves.-—E.D.

A User-Resource Recreation Plan-
ning Method. National Advisory Coun-
cil on Regional Recreation Planning,
Hidden Valley, Loomis, California. Pp.
80. Paper, $2.00.

“The recreation planning method . . .
pr0poses a practical and comprehensive
means of estimating the present and
future recreation requirements of users
and the recreation potential of na-
tural and man-made sources.” This
idea of relating what people want to the
availability of resources for satisfying
those wants and using the relationship
as a basis for planning the amount, lo-
cation, and design of recreation areas
seems a simple one. Yet, as applied in
this book, it is unique and constitutes
a landmark in planning for all recrea-
tion but especially for regional recrea-
tion. This book will be a classic and
should be read by all those interested in
providing for recreation in a national,
systematic way—Stanley B. Tankel,
Regional Plan Association, New York

City.

local Planning Administration (3rd
ed.). Mary McLean, Editor. Interna-
tional City Managers' Association,
1313 East 60th Street, Chicago 37.
Pp. 467. $7.50.

This is one of a series of ten volumes
on municipal administration. A com-
prehensive and authoritative manual, it
has chapters by leading authorities in
planning and related fields, and was
edited by the director of research of
the American Society of Planning 033-
cials. Because parks and other recrea-
tion areas are an important element in
the city plan, the administration of local
planning is of direct interest and con-
cern to recreation and park authorities.

The chapter on “Recreation and
Open Spaces,” by Miriam Strong, se-
nior planner, New York City Planning
Commission, merits careful study by
RECREATION readers. Much of the chap-
ter is devoted to an excellent treatise
on the controversial subject of recrea-
tion space standards. It presents stand-
ards for a variety of area and facility
types, incorporating proposals devel-
oped by a number of agencies, and re-
views factors that influence the applica-
tion of standards in specific localities.

Miss Strong points out that for years
locally adopted standards have been
based generally on those developed by
the National Recreation Association.
She supports the widely held opinion
that an appraisal of these standards is
overdue in order to make sure that they
take into account the basic and variable
recreation needs and interests of people.
“Land Subdivision Regulation” is an-
other chapter of special interest since it
describes various procedures for ac-

191

quiring public sites in subdivisions,
with special reference to recreation
areas.

The selected bibliography affords a
guide to additional reference sources.
It is unfortunate, however, that plans
showing the distribution of recreation
areas in Paterson, New Jersey, and
Providence, Rhode Island, were includ-
ed, since the types of recreation areas
proposed in the reports from which they
were reproduced bear little resemblance
to those described by Miss Strong, and
the space standards recommended in
them are far below those recognized as

adequate.——C.D.B.

Adventures With Scissors and Paper,
Edith C. Becker. International Text-

book Company, Scranton 15, Pennsyl-
vania. Pp. 116, illustrated. $5.50.

Expensive? No, because it’s worth
every cent and more—a beautifully
printed and illustrated hook, full of fas-
cinating adventures (and we don’t use
that word lightly) , with simple, easy-to-
get material (paper of every sort, scis-
sors, paste, and crayons or paint if

wished) .

This book could he the foundation

stone for a whole craft program for
your playground or center. Its projects
and examples are clear, original, in
good taste, and good humor. Many of
them are the wonderful kind that fairly
cry out to be used in correlation with
other activities, like drama, puppets,
and special events. (See Page 154.)

There are a sparkle and enthusiasm
here that lift it far above the usual pa-
percraft hook, making it a really excit-
ing addition to recreation literature.
Here’s investment that will pay rich
dividends in creative craft eitperiences.
Buy it and see for yoursclf!—-V.M.

The Art of Making Dances, Doris
Humphrey. Rinehart and Company,
232 Madison Avenue, New York 16.

Pp. 176. Illustrations and drawings.
$6.50.

As a performer, teacher, concert art-
ist, and choreographer, Doris Hum-
phrey has reached thousands of indi-
viduals who werc associated with the
arts. Now, as an author, the rich and
vibrant leadership which was experi-
enced by her students and associates
becomes part of the heritage of the
American dance and is available to
every community. Through The Art of
Making Dances she gives to the people
of the world a philosophy of the Amer-
ican dance, and the means by which
this art form may be developed, stud-
ied, and appreciatcd.

From the opening page, she. speaks
directly to the individual. The. reader

192

is swept through the pages; the book
cannot be pushed aside. The first read-
ing is pure poetic motion, culminating
in the awareness that here is a great
book, that words have been found to
express the movement art of the dance.

Immediately, the reader reopens the
book, studies each chapter and the prac-
tical technical presentations for the de-
velopment of choreography. Here the
tools of the choreographer are concise-
ly, vividly explained. Chapter Two
deals with the craft and the discussion
of design and one is challenged by such
subjective material as “design,” “sym-
metry and asymmetry,” “stage space,”
“dynamics.” If the suggestions are fol-
lowed, the American dance will have
an extremely bright future, for the old
repetitions and copying of techniques
will not be acceptable.

One could wax romantic about this
book. The style is superb and the know-
how expressed clearly. The methods
for the development of choreography
could only come from a person who has
lived long in the field; watched thou-
sands of bodies; struggled with the
practical problems of music, space, the-
ater, costumes; felt the tolerance and
intolcrance of prcss, public, coworkers,
and performing artists. Only a gifted
observer could further strengthen the
explanation and suggestions written
into the text by placing assignmcnts at
the end of each “tool”-unit. These in
themselves lend a sense of release and
individual integrity of thought and re-
sulting movement.

Fortunate, indced, are we to have
this text available. Nowhere havc those
who are interested in the dance been
able to secure, except in a very few
dance centers, the underlying practical
principles of choreography. Equally
important as the know-how is the en-
couragement to utilize thc individual’s
own stylc, the responsibility of each
person to be sincere and to l'CSpCCi the
technique of each dance form. Through
the insights offered each community
will share in the “art of making
dances.”———Dorothca M. Lcnscli, direc-
tor of recreation, Portland, Oregon.

A Guide for Planning the School
and College Swimming Pool and Nata-
torium, William L. Terry. Bureau of

Publications, Teachers College, Colum-
bia University, New York 27. Pp. 73.
$2.50.

This study, prepared in partial ful-
lillment of requirements for a doctoral
degree, is a valuable addition to the
growing literature on the planning, con-
struction, equipment, and use of the
swimming pool. Although it contains
much information that is familiar, it
presents in a detailed, well-organized

manner valuable information with ref-
erence to the various problems covered.
It deals primarily with the indoor pool,
but much of the information will be of
value to those considering the construc-
tion of an outdoor facility.—C.D.B.

__¢_
Selected Paperbacks

For Boys” Club Program (Page 167).

BANTAM: The Bridge Over the River Kwai,
Pierre Boulle; The Red Pony, John Stein-
beck; Drunis Along the Mohawk, Walter D.
Edmonds; The Light in. the Forest, Conrad
Richter; Who Rides with Wyatt, Will Henry;
Apache Land, Ross Santee; Five and Ten,
John K. Winkler; Folk Songs of the Carib-
bean, James Morse; Wild Animals 1 Have
Known, Ernest Thompson Seton; Cowhand:
The Story of a Working Cowboy, Fred Cipson.

DELL: David Copperfield, Charles Dickens;
Great Flying Stories, edited by Dr. Frank W.
Anderson, Jr.; The Long Rifle, Stewart E.
White; The World in Space, Alexander Mar-
shack; The Walt Disney Story of Our Friend
the Atom, Franz Haber; Common Wild Ani-
mals and Their Young, photographs, William
Vandivert, drawings, Carl Burger, text, Rita
Vandivert; The American Heritage Reader:
The Great Locomotive Chase, MacLennan
Roberts; A History of the United States, Wil-
liam Miller; Six Centuries of Great Poetry,
edited by liobert Penn Warren and Albert

Erskine.

FAWCETT: Best Quotations for All Occasions,
edited by Lewis C. lienry: The Miracle of

Language, Charlton Laird; The insect World
of J. Henri Fabre, edited by Edwin Way

Teale; The Strange Story of Our Earth, A.
Hyatt Verrill; A Key to the Heavens, Leo Mat-
tersdorf; How You Can Forecast the Weather,
Eric Sloane; Aninial Wonder World, Frank
W. Lane; Crucibles: The Story of Clieniistry,
Bernard Jallee; The Practical Way to a Better
Memory, Dr. Brnno Fnrst; Hour to Understand
.lllusic, Oscar Thompson (revised by D. E.

Wheeler).

rm; NEW AMERICAN LIBRARY: Indians of the
Americas, John Collier; Machines That Built
America, Roger Burlinganle: Gods, Heroes
and Men of Ancient Greece, W. ll. D. Rouse;
The Oxbow Incident, Walter V. T. Clark;
Night Flight, Antoine de St. Exupéry: Lives
of Destiny as Told for the Reader’s Digest,
Donald Cnlross Pealtie; Christopher Colmn-
bus, Mariner, Samuel Eliot Morison; The
Green Hills of Earth, Robert A. lleinlein;
Satellites, Roche” and Outer Space, Willy
Ley; American F olk Tales and Songs, Richard
Chase.

POCKET HOOKS: Old Masters, edited by Her-
man Wechsler; Kon-Tilri, Thor lieyerdahl;
Old Yellcr, Fred Gipson; The Red Badge of
Courage, Stephen Crane; A Stillness at Ap-
pomattox, Bruce Canon; Pocket History of
the U. 5., Henry Steele Connnager: Profiles in
Courage, John Kennedy; The Doctors Mayo,
llelen Clapesaltle; The Silent World, Jacques-
Yves Constean; My Favorite Sport Stories,
Bill Stern.

RECREATION

0;;

 

63w

Board Members ' Mayors ' City Man-
agcrs ' Recreation Supervisors ' Lead-
crs—both paid and volunteer ° Mainte-
nance SUpcrvisors ' Purchasing Agents
° Libraries ° Local Guidance Coun-

sclors °

Put extra copies of this recreation tool

to work
FOR YOU

M akc your local job easier for yourself
and your staff -— by making sure that
everyone has HIS OWN COPY OF RECRE-
ATiON. Just use the handy coupon and
we‘ll be glad to bill you or your depart-

mcnt.

 

FORGET SOMETHING?

 

YOU HAVE

It will help you recruit greatly
needed leaders in your own field;
and learn what communities are do-
ing in recreation facilities, leader-
ship, and program activities. REC-
REATION will spark new interest and

N O W —— $4.00 one year

$7.25 two years

I National Recreation Association, 8 West Eighth Street, New York ll, N. Y.

_ _ v .. .__,._ —....... 7— —.___——————.

Name
Department or Organization '-
'n'u'e ' '
Stfeét Address

Zone

 

-— —_-—————-—- —-————--—

Street Address

_ .. v —

Zone ' State

City '

L______________

Send Eco-cation: m

Nan-1e“  '—

‘I‘i a?”
StrEet Address

' State City

my Name
Department or Organization
"fine"  ' "

Street Address

if you don't have your mm copy of

THE MAGAZINE or Tilii RECREATION MOVEMENT

make everyone more receptive to
sound recreation thinking in solving
local problems. Enter a subscrip-
tion—a legitimate budget charge—
on the handy COUponS below, before
our prices go up.

September 1, I960: $5.00
$8.75

(Remember, a subscription is included in membership)

r—‘r— —_

Department or Organization

——--—-'v-

 

""‘ '—‘ PLEASE ENTER ['1 SUBSCRIPTIONS

3“ I enciose $

.. (remittance or
purchase order)

I
|
|
|
l
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
Zone State II
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
l

___________ __.l

Ge't'More' Flexibility

IN YOUR GYM

Even the non-athlete will enjoy roller skating in
your gym. It’s the one sport in which everyone
participates and has a barrel of fun. It is a great
Youth Fitness program because it teaches rhythm,
co-ordination and grace Without the skater being
conscious of it. That, plus the fun is Why more
schools, churches and recreation centers are mak-
ing roller skating an integral part of their-pro-
grams. Write today for facts and details.

 

4490-D West Lake Street, Chicago 24, Illinois

 

NEW DURYTE PLASTIC WHEELS
ARE KIND 39- .
an '
ro GYM FLOORS “at! 

‘I
a

New Duryte plastic wheels have a
long life and are guaranteed not to
mar or scratch gym floors. "Chi-
cago” has a skate designed for every
type of floor surface or finish. Write
today for free details (an-roller skat-
ing programs and skating equipment.

 

