 

 

ups personnel morale, cuts absenteeism,

Controlled
helps increase production. That’s

a pretty good case for implant athletic
programs. Studies prove it out—plants with
I I I sports participation for employees

are more productive.
Just having the program isn’t enough, however. Your plant needs the right athletic program,
correctly planned and executed, and supplied with the right equipment. Your MacGregor dealer is an
expert on setting up and operating leagues of all kinds, and he certainly has the finest sports
equipment available right in his own store. He can assist you with initial planning, scheduling,
tournament bracketing, selection of equipment, and even sanctioning by local athletic groups if
necessary. He’s also adept at giving tired old programs a vigorous boost. Get your plant’s athletic
program started, or rejuvenated, now. Keep your employees’ after-hours energies and tensions

in control by giving them controlled conflict. A call to your MacGregor dealer, or a.

a visit to his store, will get things moving. Do it today);

The MacGregor 00., Cincinnati 32, Ohio
DIVISION OF BRUNSWICK

 

WORLD LEADER IN RECREATION‘Q

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

N E W Par 2 — “9 in 1” Putting Course N E W

America’s Newest Sport for Organized Recreation

Ideally Suited for Recreation Centers, YMCA’s, YWCA’s, Boys Clubs,
Playgrounds, Day Camps, Churches, Schools, Bowling Alleys, etcetera

 

7. Triple Bumper 8. Pendulum 9. Am llill
SPECIFICATIONS
1' Fairway—"‘24" X 96" 6. Clubs-~regulalion 2-way Jr. putters (-1 '— ———————————— ————-
' Putting Green—48" x 48” furnished); Sr. putters furnished if : "Wm" "05-: "‘umma N- V-
2. Side rails—moulded 2" x 4" desired Plooso Ship Mo "9 in I" Putting
. . C l $197.00 E h. E Cell I
We“ Coast Spruce 7. Balls—regulation—m four colors (12 I [Efé‘gf‘lm‘igmm N. VJ“ "m" x
3. Playing Surface—5A6” colorlast green furnished) I Discount for quantity order
rayon Carpet adhered i0 %" BXIBTiOI‘ 8. 500 scorecards and one gross of pencils : Nam.
plYWOOd furnished I Tm.
4' Obstades Cleverly dESigneda sturdin 9. All visible surfaces attractively painted """ "
built to last for years two coats : Organization
5. Cup—4” dia., 2” deep (recessed) 10. Easily stored in carton furnished . Adar."
OCTOBER 196]- When writing to our advertisers plcase mention RECREATION. 389

 

GENERAL

ADMINISTRATION

PROGRAM

EACH MONTH DIGEST

390

 

OCTOBER I96I .\ VOL. LIV NO. 8 PRICE 60c

I Believe (Editorial) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Garrett G. Eppley 392
The challenge of the recreation profession

Balkan-Ji-Bari . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Dr. Zulie Nakhooda 399
Working in child recreation in India

History’s Not for Burying . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . .. 400
Unearth your town’s past for colorful festivities

In-Service Training for Volunteers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Lowell Robertson 403
Persistence and continuity. brings results in a group work agency

Outdoor Education—A National Venture . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Julian Smith 404
Today’s increasing use of the outdoors for learning and better living

The Board’s Responsibility to the District . . . . . . . . ."-. . . . . . . . . . . . . .- . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Elsie J. Stuhr 406
Informed board members result in better functioning

Leisure and Mental Retardation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Doris Berryman 408
There is a need to change outmoded attitudes

National Social Welfare Manpower Study, 1960 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 411
Data from the first national survey of recreation personnel ' I

The Zoo Visits Young Patients . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 414
Animals cheer children along the road to recovery

Recreation Showcase . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .‘XenOphon Morris 417
“W indowshopping” results in publicity for recreation department

Parks for Free . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Kenneth Smithee 419
Story of stupendous gift of Arizona homebuilder to parks and recreation department 

Research Briefs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .~ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I 421“
State park statistics . . ‘ 1., ‘ 

State and Local'Developments . . . . ., . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . tale}; . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 422
Missouri’s prize-winning Climatron J; 4"

Bowling for Everyone . . . . . . 15:3." . . . . . . . . . .- . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 423
Housewives and youngsters have tailored-to-fit programs - '

They Do It Themselves . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Gordon B. Jaeger 425
Senior citizens organize their own center -

Recipes for Family Fun . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . William Lederer 426

Common interests and mutual respect are important ingredients

Science and Youth . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Earl Ubell 427

Draw specialists from the community for science programs

428

Leisure Spending . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
In recent report, travel, books show great gains

' 
Letters 394 As We Go To Press 397 Reporter’s Notebook 412 Market News 430 Trade Mart 431
Concerning Upkeep 435 Listening and Viewing 436 New Publications 438

. 3— n
'1,’ -‘g #‘f‘i-gy.‘ l"'.‘\ q i a
. s : "~ . . r
t ‘3):

RECREATION is published monthly except July and August by the National Recreation 1-9.1" gopyright, 1961, by the Na‘tional

. . . . . . . . '5 Recreation Association, Incorporated
Association, a serv1ce organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 8 West Eighth ,. '
Street, New York 11, New York, is on file in public libraries and is indexed in the Readers’ “£33” '8,
Guide. Subscription $5.00 a year. Canadian and foreign subscription rate $5.75. Re—eh:  H ,v~

tered as second-class matter April 25, 1950, at the Post Oiiice in New York, New York, DUCATIONAL n” °'”"” '"”°'"

Printed in the.U.S.A.

 
   
 

. _ RE SS pyintedf otrle the expres‘;
under Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage prov1ded 5 50c] ATION :gozwieieg'ga'zo‘l’izy
for in Section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized May 1, 1924. Microfilms of current 0F °f ""3 N°,“°,"°' R°¢'°°"”~*
. . . . . . AMERICA hon Assocnahon. .
issues available University Microfilms, 313 N. First Street, Ann Arbor, Michigan. \i

RECREATION

RECREATION

Editor in Chief, JOSEPH PRENDERGAST
Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON
Assistant Editor, ELVIRA DELANY

 

Associate Editors
Administration, GEORGE BUTLER
Program, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

Business Manager
FRANK ROWE

Advertising Manager
ESTA GLUCK

 

On The Cover
HIGH HOPES. From a hillock Of gold-

en grass against a blue October sky, 3
boy surveys his eminent domain, ready
tO defend it against Indians, outlaws,
wild animals. Are we working tO pre-
serve his natural heritage Of fields,
prairies, seashores, mountain areas, and
the wilderness? This photograph, cour-
tesy Of the 1961 Kodak High School
Photo Awards, was appropriately titled
“High Hopes” by its prize-winning pho-
tographer, high-school student Ray

Green, Jr., aged fifteen, Of Miami, Flor-
ida.

Next Month

Watch for a stimulating November
issue. An editorial especially written
for RECREATION by Conrad Wirth, di-
rector Of the National Park Service.
Speaks Of his,own young “high hopes”
_(as above) ; while “Want a Park Named
"for You?” explains the park-naming
system in Memphis, Tennessee. “The
Making Of an All-America City” tells
how recreation played an important
part in helping a new community be-
come a national prize-winner. “Home-
bound Holiday” is the story of a group
Of previously homebound (severely
handicapped) persons who, as a part Of
a National Recreation Association pilot
project with the homebound, were lured
from their homes tO take part in an
exciting group experience on a farm.
Other articles will deal appropriately
with winter sports contests, a Thanks-
giving party, and suggestions for
Christmas.

Photo Credits

Page 401, Robertson and Fresh, Tam-
pa, Florida; 404, (top) courtesy State
Of California Department Of Natural
Resources, Sacramento; 412, (lower
left) York, Pennsylvania, Dispatch;
414-15, University Of Michigan News
Service, Ann Arbor; 419, Handler Gal-
leries, Phoenix, Arizona; 424, Bowl-
Mor CO., Inc., Littleton, Massachusetts;
433, (right) Holt Graphic Arts, Oak-
land, California; (left) Hal Scofield,

Yakima, Washington.

OCTOBER 1961

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

,‘ POPCORN

8c profit per 10:
sale. Equipment and
supplies cost under

$300.00. Over 50%

of your patrons will
buy a bag.

    

Yes, hundreds of park and rec-
reation departments are iump-
ing on :the refreshment band-
wagon."You’ll add 10% to 20%

to your available operating

COTTON CANDY
funds.

Almost 9c profit per
10: sale. Equipment
and supplies $300.00.
Extremely popular
with all Children un-
der 16.

SNO-KONES

8c profit per 10:.
Equipment and sup-
plies costs under
$225.00. Equipment
only 149.50. Every-
body loves Sno-Kanes
—the most refreshing
drink you can eat.

Send more information on
REFRESHMENT PROFITS to:

DAL PRODUCTS 00MPANY f:;:————, g

     

All Gold Medal Equipment can
pay for itself out of Prefits!

 

write my far Free 1961 cata-
log and detailed book on re-
freshments. We have everything
you need for HOT DOGS, POP-
CORN, SNO-KONES, COTTON
CANDY AND ALL OTHER RE-
FRESHMENT ITEMS.

    
   
  
 
  
  
  

1821-31 Freeman Avenue, Cincinnati 14, Ohio City

The most trusted name in Refreshments Today! ' Slate

L----------------

RYAN‘S H. 6:. R.

DRY llNE MARKERS

ALSO pder omvm AUTOUNE
From 201% to 1003? Capacity

"ACE MODEL SHOWN"

_/

“w. -~ .Forc'e Feed -- Instant
7 Shutoli — 50 lbs. Ca-

pacity.
Shelterin Hopper for
Constant Flow.

Adlustable Control on
Handle.

SAVES TIME AN 0
MATERIAL

PARK KING
Top styling Walk-in picnic tables

write for complete catalog 8. factory prices

BE (.5 ON
-”muurccrumuc co.. NORTH AURORA 4.Iumols

Send to Dept. R for booklet on other 4 models.
H. 8. R. MFG. CO., [05 ANGELES 34, CALIF.

_—

 

 

 

391

GUEST EDITORIAL

 

I believe that among all of our pro-

fessions none offers a greater chal-
lenge to its members than that of the
rapidly growing profession of recrea-
tion. Today the working man has
forty percent more leisure hours than he
has work hours. By the year 2000 or
before he will have two and one-half
times as much leisure as he will have work. Increased leisure
brings increased recreation. In fact, the demands for recrea-

 

tion are growing much faster than our leisure.

The interest in recreation is creating a rapidly expanding
market for recreation products, coupled with a demand for
recreation services. Increased services require personnel to
provide them—in retail stores, travel agencies, resort areas,
filling stations, motels, commercial recreation establish-
ments, industry, public and private agencies, religious or-
ganizations, and training institutions.

Very few people are actually fully prepared for the leisure
they_ seek to enjoy. Man has worked for leisure:*-What will
he do with it? I believe that our schools should prepare
youthnfor leisure. Children in school today will have avail-
able the leisure of the year 2000; and yet the preparation
of the average child today is not sufficient to assure its wise
use. The development of skills and interests to meet needs
not anticipated today, the broadening of interests, proper
motivation, guidance, and adequate facilities are major
responsibilities of the agencies concerned with recreation.

I believe that the professional recreation worker, to meet
the challenge which faces him, needs a broad general edu-
cation, adequate knowledge, skills, and ability in the field of
recreation and the proper desire to succeed. His success will
be more assured if he is dedicated to his work and takes
pride in his profession. He needs to have a foundation of
supervised field experience on which to build his future. He
should be familiar with the objectives and values of the
recreation program and display an attitude of confidence
and sincerity in his contacts with persons, regardless of their
status in the community, state, or nation. He should enjoy
working with people. Such a person would be a success in
several professions. He is needed in recreation.

I believe that we in the field of professional preparation
need constantly to evaluate and improve our offering. We
should stand on our own feet with dignity. We need to be
effective salesmen—interpreters, if you please. We need to
recruit the best potential recreation leaders possible. Al-
ready our bulletin boards are filled with notices of desirable

openings and personal letters pleading for qualified per-
sonnel.

 

DR. EPPLEY is chairman of the department of recreation at
Indiana University, Bloomington.

392

“9 mam..."

Garrett G. Eppley

The responsibility for recruiting potential leaders is the
responsibility of all of us concerned with recreation. Our
local programs must have the quality needed to attract per-
sons to the profession.

Last year I accepted the opportunity to make a study of t
twenty-two nationally recognized park and recreation ad-
ministrators. At my request they discussed their philOSOphy,
their problems, their major accomplishments, the needs of
the profession, and their predictions for the future. The
greatest need, they felt, was for qualified personnel, with
an effective public relations program and a land acquisition I
program ranking second and third in that order. These ad-
ministrators all seemed to be dedicated to their profession.
They were open-minded, constantly on the alert for new
ideas. They appeared to possess that rare ability to select
the essentials from the non-essentials. They seemed to have
established a sound foundation for their program. No doubt
many other successful administrators possess the qualities
of those I visited.

 

MY BELIEFS have evolved from my contacts with many
people, my experiences in the profession, and my read-
ings, which are too limited. My major beliefs can be listed
as follows: I believe that the recreation prbgram should:
1. Be constructive as well as enjoyable; creative as well

as self-satisfying.

2. Be designed to serve the recreation needs of all age
levels and the various individuals within those age levels.

3. Provide the necessary opportunities and proper moti-
vations for the participants to improve their skills, acquire
new skills, and broaden their interests.

4«. Provide the participants with Opportunities for lead-
ership, instruction in skills, program planning, or assum-
ing responsibilities in the maintenance and operation of
facilities.

5. Provide opportunities for persons to have direct con-
tact with the land. A camping experience, a canoe trip, a
hike up the mountain or along a stream, a visit to a rose
garden or floral display, or the tending of a vegetable or
flower garden can provide one with invigorating exercise,
Spiritual uplift, and a better understanding of man’s rela-
tion to his environment. Ample land needs to be preserved
to enable people to have adequate contacts with nature.

6. If for our senior citizens, be designed to include
service projects which can utilize their skills and talents. h
Such projects can enable them to attain the satisfactions \
derived from serving others. The service provided through !
these projects can be of great benefit to the community.

7. Utilize the appropriate skills and talents of lay in-
dividuals and groups in the furtherance of their programs.
This can cause these individuals and groups to feel a part
of their agency and their program, thereby bringing to the

RECREATION

agency needed guidance, support, donations, added pres-

tige, and supplementary services. A“. - A M E R ICA N H E AVY— D U TY

8. Beauty, creative design, usefulness, safety, and eco- I

     
     
  

   

   

nomic maintenance should be given major considerations
in the planning of areas and facilities.

9. All persons concerned with recreation should be
familiar with its philos0phy, values, and objectives and
should utilize every appropriate opportunity to interpret
them to the general public.

10. All persons concerned with recreation should make
every effort to recruit potential recreation leaders to meet
the demand for such personnel.

rs. r s.
* "9

Features Not Found
In Any Other Grill

Built just like a small, com-
plete cooking range. Positive

   
 

Stationary Portable 6-way draft control gives f aster,

 
  
     

11. All persons and organizations concerned with recre- style for Model as - . . .

. _ t _ . t “I t t d eagler kindling, saves fuel. 1n-
atlon should strlve to speak as one v01ce on all major Issues. Permanin "5 ra e ' - - -
B . t th. .1: . h] h d ' Installatmn complete sures tenderer, jumer steaks,

as1c 0 his um y 1s a cornimorl: ph 1 osoply, a great I eslre $43.70 $49.85 chops, barbecues. Cooks, bakes,
to serve t. e :ecreatlon nee s o t e peopoe, and a WIlling- . warms_bums charcoal, wood
ness to umte or jomt actlon. A start 1n th1s dlrectlon mlght Wel3h1180|bs- Weight 205|bs- or coal. Grill revolves to per,

PATENT PENDING

be made by persons employed 1n publlc recreatlon and in mit cooking to windward Cast

public park work.
12. All persons engaged in recreation work should mani- Pipe support, for lifetime sew.

fest their recreation philosophy in the use of their leisure. if:  r i _  ice, Shipped funy assembled,

* Write for L‘itrure on All-American Picnic Grills, Heavy-
Duty Picnic Tables, Park Benches and Chain Link Tennis Nets

of heavy stove iron with steel

 

 

Storytellingl. . . Book Fair . . . Poster Contest . . .
Charades? Book Week offers a wonderland of

prooram possibilities.
" A M E R I C A N
   PLAYGROUND DEVICE (0., ANDERSON, IND.

WORLD'S LARGEST MANUFACTURERS OF FINE PARK. PICNIC.
    ‘ PLAYGROUND. SWIMMING POOL AND DRESSING ROOM EQUIPMENT

   
 
   
      

 
    
 
    
 

3.3:... Ir -- -_
MIRACLE FLYING PONY SWING

Sturd , colorful, fiberglass ponies. Great appeal to all the young
cowpdkes. Send coupon today for our “String to Pleasure" brochure.

Get more “FUN for the money” with MIRACLE!

MAIL THIS COUPON NOW

II-

      

MORE FUN —- that’s the extra bonus built into every

 
 
  
  
  
 
       

 

iece of Miracle Playground Equipment. Miracle’s vivid I M ANYJR'NNELL 9' IOWA I
golors, modern designs and unusual equipment Ideas ap- I M'RA‘L‘ EQU'PMEHT 5° P .
Deal to young Imaginationso Children enjoy themselves far I Please send me at once the following brochures: '
longer . . . get plenty of healthful exercise  . play safely I [3 World ofWhirls  Tog Laninems .
without supervision. Whatever you need In playground I 1: Swing to Pleasure é "3:1eltesrud2:ses :
equipment, Miracle makes it better— 116 items In all! I C! if“: gir‘nsbgfoxgtggdzn gowns“ Playground '
Mail coupon today for new color brochures on the eqmp- l 3 Firming Service I

d us your ideas and dimensions — a I I

: NAME .......................................................................... -- .

I

I ADDRESS I

EQUIPMENT. CO. . CITY STATE '

Grinnell, Iowa I  ‘ J
h---------------—---------

OCTOBER 1961 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

  
 
 
 
   
 

Terminology
Sirs:

In the October 1960 issue of RECRE-
ATION, Jay Shivers presented a point of
view concerning recreation terminol-
ogy. There was a rebuttal by Ed Thack-
er in the December 1960 issue. I took
it upon myself to write to authorities
concerning word derivation, the Claren-
don Press, publishers of the Oxford
Dictionary, and the Institute of General
Semantics in Connecticut.

The former felt the term recreationist
to be the best and referred to D. Ries-
man: Observations on Changes in Lei-

sure Attitudes (1952), Page 130: “Stu- ~

dents of Leisure—‘recreationists’ per-
haps we’d better call them.”

The director of the Institute of Gen-
eral Semantics, Mr. M. Kendig, states,
“In my opinion the best title for persons
who provide recreational services is
‘recreationist.’ ”

I hope this will help to settle the prob-
lem of terminology.

FRANKLIN C. HILL, Director, Parks

and Recreation Department, Rock

Hill, South Carolina.

0 Mr. Hill wrote the above before he
received the September issue contain-
ing “Terminology Revisited," further
reflections on this embattled subiect
by Dr. Shivers and Carl Ruud. We ex-
pect to hear further from Mr. Hill re-
gording this latest article—Ed.

Mary Quirk Fund
Sirs:

May I congratulate you on the lovely
article in the September issue on the
late Mary Quirk. To all those who knew
and loved her your words cannot fail to
bring to mind a vivid picture of that
gallant spirit.

During this summer’s correspond-
ence regarding the Mary Quirk Memo-
rial Fund, the most beautifully ex-
pressed tribute came from C. M. Goethe
of Sacramento, California. He de-
scribed Mary as a “rare soul who un-
derstood as only too few do the strateg

of conquest by ust loving people intO“

a better way.”

I am helping to build the [memorial]. .

fund to which you referred in your arti-

394

LETTERS

Readers are invited to share their

views on these pages. Comments

of general interest are always we!-

come. -— The Editors.

cle and I hope to be seeing many of her
good friends at the [43rd National Rec-
reation] Congress in Detroit.
AMALYA PRENDERGAST, 8 M acDougal
Alley, New York 11.

Looking Back
Sirs:

On the occasion of my retirement . . .
[I recall] one of the happiest periods
of my life was during the time I was
a student at the National Recreation
School. Now, after thirty-six years with
the Dallas Park and Recreation Depart-
ment, I can say that my course of study
there has seemed as a rule and guide
to lighten the burdens and to make my
chosen profession a pleasure through
the years.

MASAL JEFFERS, Dallas, Texas.

Senior Citizens
Sirs:

I do want to thank you for the full-
page article _you printed in the May
RECREATION concerning the Pasadena
Senior Citizen Volunteer Manual. I’ve
had many requests for same, and if it
is of assistance to others just starting
in this new field, it’s only because of
your widespread coverage.

I’m one of those who have been pelt-
ing you for the last four years with re-
quests for more and more senior citizen
activities. You’ve certainly covered this
area well in the last year, and should
be congratulated (as always) on the
quality and scope of these articles.
Since we’re all so new in the gerontol-
ogy field (especially in recreation) we
are all learning and such assistance as
you’ve given us is invaluable.

ADELAIDE WOODWORTH KINTz, Exec-

utive Director, Pasadena Senior Cen-

ter, 85 East Holly Street, Pasadena,

California.

Of Sand and Oil
Sirs:

I work for the Arabian American Oil
Company in Saudi Arabia as a super-
visor in the recreation department. We
receive RECREATION (and) it is widely
read by the recreation leaders here in

.Saudi Arabia. We are spread out in

three different locations and “recrea-

When writing to our advertisers please .mention RECREATION.

tion” both for the Americans and Sau-
dis working [here] is a big factor in
this land of sand and oil.

THOMAS K. ROY, Dhahran, Saudi
Arabia.

Performing Arts Supplements
Sirs:

Congratulations . . . upon the advent
of the special supplement(s) on “The
Performing Arts as Recreation.” If all
in the series are to be as readable and
well illustrated as the first on music in
the May issue, you are indeed making
a fine approach to the potentials in the
field of recreation. A pat on the back
should be given to the National Recre-
ation Association Committee on Music
and Community Recreation, and par-
ticularly to [Siebolt] Frieswyk . . . I
personally am gratified that the Ameri-
can Music Conference and the NRA can
supplement each other’s efforts in the

-encouragement of amateur participa-

tion.

JAY L. KRAUS, President, The Har-
mony Company, 3633 South Racine
Avenue, Chicago 9.

il- * il- *

I particularly enjoyed and found use-
ful the recent issue containing “Music
Is Recreation.”

PATRICIA PIERCE, Las Cruces, New

Mexico.
* * * *

The record of what is being done in
the [music] field under recreational
auspices is quite impressive. I hope you
will find a warm reSponse to this ap-
proach in the profession.

EDGAR B. YOUNG, Acting President,

Lincoln Center for the Performing

Arts, Inc., New York City.
‘Il' ‘K' * ‘ll'

I think the Music Supplement is ter-
rific and I am sure it is going to do a
great deal to advance the concept that
there can be recreation in musical en-
deavor.

JOHN W. FULTON, American Music
Conference, Chicago.

 

2 HANDCRAFTS CATALOGS

F-R-E-El

     

0 Latest Project Ideas

0 Beginners or Advanced
0 Complete Supplies, Kits
0 Tap Quality and Values .

LARSON’s, serving schools and institutions
by mail for 26 years, is your headquarters for
all popular handcrafts. LEATHER. METAL,
MOSAICS, WOOD, CERAMICS, PLASTER
MOLDS, BASKET WEAVING, ETC. Also
Dennison paper, clays, paints, etc. You Wlll
Want these valuable illustrated catalogs on
hand. Contain latest low price lists and at-
tractive quantity discounts. Top quality
guaranteed. Value priced. Many inexpenswe
projects without tools. Complete stocks to fill
any size order. Same-day shipment. Write
today for FREE reference catalogs.

.l. C. LARSON CO., INC.

Dept. 1305 820 S. Tripp Chicago 24, Ill.

 

' RECREATION

email? in“

.us m an“

 

A GREAT NEW GAME

For Indoor and Confined Area Play

;  " More Fun than IO-Pin Bowling
Faster, Simpler, _N0 quorious Pin Setting

Small children, high school students, adults alike are eager to bowl . . .
the most p0pular of all indoor activities. Candle Pin Bowling is the
novel, simpler Way for everyonefto bowl. You roll 3 balls per frame; no
pin setting between balls. Use fallen pins to help pick up spares.

FOR LIMITED SPACE AND BUDGETS

Any level area, small as 6 by 30 ft. is sufficient. The soft rubber balls
and resilient Polyethylene pins are noiseless. Safe to bowl anywhere.
Ball and pins are rugged; made to stand long, hard usage at low cost.

REGULATION SIZES, REGULATION ACTION ,0 Regulomn  pm ,m inches
A     high, precision molded df virgin Poly-
      ethylene. Resilient, durable, quiet.

Small children bowl capably with the 4% inch, 17 ounce balls. The 3 REQUIONOH size bolls 0‘ ’09 WOW)!
game is simple, easily understood. Yet it affords high competitive sofiwbber.Perfecisphemidsin COW“

 

COMPLETE SET CONSISTS OF:

excitement, capturing the interest of adults. 50'0""? ‘0' “cum”? b°W""9- 4V1 inc“
” diameters, 17 ounce weight.
      I setup sheet showing pin poSEHOns' I
   book of rules, 100 score sheets.
H v ' 0080:»,
O S O M SEE YOUR SCHOOL SUPPLY DEALER ‘ Ipuvo
' OR WRITE us FOR FULL INFORMATION “saw ‘ ‘9
' o R P o R A 'r I O N 6030 WAYZATA BLVD.. MINNEAPOLIS Ie. MINN. °°Uo

OCTOBER 1961 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 3'75

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. RECREATION

 

National Recreation Association Receives Gift for Bird Sanctuary

l J‘M. Rovensky, industrialist, banker, economist, and former chair-
man of the board of ACF Industries, Inc., has donated $10,000 through

' the National Recreation Association to the Norman Bird Sanctuary in

Newport, Rhode Island. The gift, made in memory of his wife, the late
' JMa‘e Cadwell Rovensky, is to be used “to further the purpose of [the
NRA‘] at the Norman Bird Sanctuary . . . specifically, for the renovation
ahd/or construction of a conservation education center in the now exist-
iq building. . . .” The NRA will act as consultant tO the sanctuary. It

is 'hoped that other philanthrOpists will recognize recreation and con-
sgvation as focal points for their work.

> A MILLION-AND-A-HALF-DOLLAR GIFT
frorri the Montgomery Ward Estate will
pay half the estimated costs of a new
music court and amphitheater the Chi-
cago Park District will build in Grant
Park! ( A' scale model of the project and
further details will appear in the No-
vember issue of RECREATION.)

'*
' AMF AWARDS: President and author

John Fitzgerald Kennedy was one Of the
four 1961 winners of the awards being
Offered annually by the American Ma-
chine & Foundry Company and the Na-
tional. Recreation Association to en—
courage and honor journalists and
beoadc‘alsters who have helped create
better understanding Of programs in the
field of recreation. The President was
honored for his article, “The Soft Amer-
ican,” which appeared in the December
26, 1960 issue of Sports Illustrated
Magazine. Other winners: editor J. D.
Maurice and reporters Charles Connor
and ack Greene of the Charleston,
West irginia, Daily Mail, for a series
of Articles and editorials dealing with
a #11 recreation levy; author Wayne
O.‘Kennedy, Radio Station KXOK, St.
Louis, Missouri, for a series of six daily
ipottatlnouncements concerning recrea-
tion in the St. Louis area (see also Page
436); and Peter Molnar and Paul Levi-
ta-n, CBS-TV, for their production ef-
forts in the coverage of the 1960 winter
and summer Olympics.
I

GIIiLs CLUBS ANNOUNCEMENTS: Mrs.
Ohn Kennedy has accepted the post of
onorary chairman of the board of di-

rectors of the Girls Clubs of America,
Inc. New national executive director Of
the organization is Lillian M. Bean.
Previously Miss Bean has been founda-

OCTOBER 1961

tion relations chairman for Fordham
University and associate general direc-
tor of the National League for Nursing.

} NEW EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR for the
American Recreation Society: Ray R.
Butler, formerly director of recreation
in Shorewood, Wisconsin.

> NEW PROGRAM CONSULTANT for the
National Society of Crippled Children
and Adults, Eleanor J. Bader, was a spe-
cial consultant and resource person to

the White House Conference on Chil-

dren and Youth and the White House
Conference on the Aging. She has also
served on the board of directors Of the
Conference of Rehabilitation Centers
and Facilities for the past nine years.

} NEW EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR of the Chil-
dren’s Book Council: Mary C. Childs
succeeds Joanna Foster Dougherty.
Mrs. Childs was previously associate di-
rector Of the library and education de-
partment of E. P. Dutton and Company.
Mrs. Dougherty will return to the coun-
cil on a part-time basis as publications
manager.

} PUBLIC INFORMATION GRANTS totaling
37,000 have been awarded to citizen
groups in four counties Of the Philadel-
phia area by Penjerdel, a nonprofit or-
ganization initially supported by the
Ford Foundation to sponsor research
and report to the public on problems
and potentials of the eleven-county,
three-state metropolitan area between
Trenton, New Jersey, and Wilmington,
Delaware. The grants went to water-
shed associations in Salem County, New
Jersey, and Bucks and Montgomery
Counties, Pennsylvania, and to county-

]luz.  to W”.

This is the second in. a series of statements about recreation and leisure
made by leaders in business and industry at the invitation of Joseph Pren-
dergast, executive director of the National Recreation Association.

HAT IS NEEDED, it would seem, is not necessarily more time for rec-
W reation but more constructive use of the leisure hours now available.
Recreation often carries with it the negative concept of idleness and whiling
away time. This can lead tO utter boredom. The well-planned recreation
program, either individual or group, should Offer mental and physical di-
version from routine Occupations. Its purpose, in part, is to refresh and
reinvigorate the individual so that he will be able to take up his chores again

with new interest and enthusiasm.

In addition, recreation should provide stimulus and challenge to the in-
dividual. That challenge may grow out Of competition, as is the case with
sports contests. With hobbies and crafts it may stem mainly from trying to
master certain skills. Undoubtedly there is a place in the well-balanced rec-
reation program for spectator sports and activities. However, we believe
major emphasis should be on programs which offer broad Opportunities for
participation. In recreation, as in other pursuits, the individual seems to
derive most from those things in which he takes an active part.

VERN K. PROCTOR, Director, Employee Programs Section,

General Motors Corporation, Detroit.

397

wide citizens councils in Delaware and
Montgomery Counties, Pennsylvania.
The Citizens Council of Delaware
County received a $3,000 grant, to be
matched by $2,000 from the council.
This will be used to encourage local mu-
nicipalities to join the county govern-
ment in acquiring parklands and other

open areas in the stream valleys of the
county.

) ANOTHER PARK AND RECREATION CON-
SOLIDATION: The Eureka, California,
Recreation Department has been con-
solidated with that city’s existing park
department. The new director of the
combined departments is Ralph M.
Goldsmith who has served as Eureka’s
recreation director for five years. The
new department assumes responsibility
for maintaining the community’s recre-
ation programs and care of grounds
and facilities comprising nearly two
hundred acres. Included in this are
three public buildings, a zoological
park, botanical gardens, and a munici-
pal golf course.

> GREAT EXPECTATION for a state park
and recreation area on the 1,600-acre
Sandy Hook peninsula has been given
the State of New Jersey by the federal
government. The state has been strug-
gling for fifteen years to gain control Of
the peninsula and have the military in-
stallation at Fort Hancock eliminated.
President Kennedy recently asked the
Defense Department to release to the
state Sandy Hook property not needed
for national security. The Defense De-
partment has asked the Department of
the Interior and the state to prepare

mm 10 Wm,

November 1- 7 Nat’l Art Week
November 5-11 American Educa-

tion Week

Veterans Day
N at’l Retarded

Children’s Week
Youth Apprecia-
tion Week
November 13-19 Children’s Book
Week

Sadie Hawkins
Day
Thanksgiving
Chanuka
Christmas

New Year’s Eve

November 11
November 12-23

November 13-18

November 18

November 23
December 3
December 25
December 31

 

short-range and long-range plans for
the use of Sandy Hook as a state park
and recreation area.

b A GIFT OF A LONG-RANGE development
plan for county parks and recreation
area Was presented to Mercer County,
New Jersey by students at Rutgers Uni-
versity. The plan represented a year’s
work by nine students in the advanced
planning designing class in the univer-
sity’s college Of engineering. The proj-
ect included a forty-four page narrative
report presenting pertinent statistics, a
series of elaborate maps, and a model.

THINGS YOU SHOULD KNOW

) TO HELP PRIVATE LANDOWNERS to ad-
mit the public to their lands for camp-
ing and recreation, the Camping Coun-
cil for Travel and Wilderness Campers

6’on Sea/Dzch

Bill*

House Senate

 

National Wilderness Preservation System ( H R C P
293 and S 174) : Designates 6,773,000 acres Of federal
forest land and grass lands as a Wilderness System and
bars all commercial activity such as lumbering, graz-
ing, mining and nonessential road building. An addi-
tional total of 44,000,000 acres could be included later.
(House Interior Committee has deferred action until

next year.)

Department of Urban Affairs (HR 6433 and S R R
1633) : To establish a federal department of urban af-

fairs and housing.

Peace Corps ( HR 4103 and S 1215) : Establishes the P P

Peace Corps as a permanent semi-autonomous agency
under the President, with authorization tO spend 3540,-

000,000 in the next fiscal year.

Youth Conservation Corps (HR 8354 and S 404) : R R

Creates a Youth Conservation Corps under the Labor

Department.

*C: in. committee R: reported

398

P: passed

will hold a meeting October 24- at Bear
Mountain Inn in Bear Mountain State
Park, New York. The meeting will
cover development and Operation of
campgrounds and related recreation fa-
cilities.

o A LITTER-PREVENTION AND BEAUTI-
FICATION WORSKHOP will be held at the
Sheraton-Cadillac Hotel in Detroit on
Friday, October 13 (doom day for lit-
terbugs?) sponsored by Keep America
Beautiful, Inc. The meeting will include
reports on big-city and small-town pro-
grams and a showing of a new Walt

Disney film, The Litterbug.

) CAMP FIRE GIRLS FOUNDERs DAY will
be commemorated March 17, 1962, and

the organization’s Birthday Week from
March 18-24, 1962.

) MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF DIREC-
TORS for Boys Clubs of America are
realizing their responsibility in develop-
ing better salary structures, according
to a recent salary survey published by
BCA. The median for Boys Clubs ex-
ecutives for 1961 was$7137 (total com-
pensation $7740) a one-year gain Of
over six per cent and a 69.9% increase
over the median in 1950. In New York
State, the median executive salary was

$8500.

> TENTH ANNIVERSARY of National Re-
tarded Children’s Week will be observed
November 12-23. After literally thou-
sands Of years of standstill, we are fi-
nally witnessing breakthroughs in the
biological, medical, educational, and
economic aspects Of mental retardation.

} RECREATION VISITS TO NATIONAL FOR-
ESTS are increasing about twelve per-
cent annually. Secretary of Agriculture
Orville L. Freeman predicts that 1961
visits will exceed a record 100,000,000.
Visits last year totaled 92,500,000.
About one-third of the outdoor space-
seekers camp and picnic; others hunt,
fish, photograph the scenery, swim,
hike, or enjoy similar outdoor activities.

> RECREATION BOATING AND WATER
SAFETY sessions will be included at the
National Safety Congress to be held at
the Conrad Hilton in Chicago, October
16-19. Another session will deal with

safety in recreation shooting.

b YOUNG PHOTOGRAPHERS throughout
the United States are eligible for $12,-
000 in cash prizes in the 1962 Kodak
High School Photo Awards contest
which opens on January 1 and closes
March 31, 1962. Queries regarding the
contest should be addressed to Kodak
High School Photo Awards, Rochester
4, New York. ( See this month’s cover
for a 1961 winner.)

RECREATION

_B_elow, a crossed-leg arts-and-crafts session at a Balkan-
}i-Bari play center. Right, a picnic during an outing. The
organization asserts the right of all children to freedom.

 

BHLKHN-Jl-BGRI

 

For The Children Of India

Recreation in America salutes neighbors across the sea, with common concern

for all children—in observance of United Nations Day—October 24

I we are to reach real peace in this world and if we are to carry on real war
against war, we shall have to begin with children, and if they will grow up in

their natural innocence, we won’t have to pass fruitless idle resolutions but we

shall go from love to love and peace to peace, until at last all the corners of the

world are covered with that peace and love which consciously or unconsciously

the whole world is hungering for.—MAHATMA GANDHI

Zulie N akhooda

BALKAN-JI-BARI is an Indian phrase
meaning Children’s Own Garden

and is the name of the Child Welfare
Association of India. With a rose as its
emblem and with a philosophy which
believes in making the child happy if
he is to be good, it is the pioneer organ-
ization to work for children’s leisure-
time and recreation activities in India.
The story of Balkan-ji-Bari dates as
far back as 1923. Then hardly anyone
thought of the child in India. The cry
of freedom was in the air, and the be-all
and end-all of national service was the
achievement of political freedom for
our motherland. The alien government,

DR. NAKHOODA is a secretary of Balkan-
ji-Bari, the Child Welfare Association
of India and principal of its Training

School for Child Welfare in Bombay.

OCTOBER 1961

instead of helping, actually attempted
to hinder the movement in its progress.
Crown-up people refused to seriously
entertain, or looked with apathy and
even scepticism upon, any idea of start-—
ing an organization devoted to children.
When the country’s freedom at last was
attained, the right of the child to free-
dom also came to be asserted by all who
love children.

The founder of Balkan-ji-Bari had to
work hard to get this right asserted.
“Dada” (elder brother), as he prefers
to be known, believed that a child was
the most beautiful thing in God’s crea-
tion, and this human flower should
grow in joy and freedom. The chief
aim of the movement that he pioneered
was to “make children as happy as pos-
sible and let them develop by them-

selves.” In other words, he did not de-
sire that children should be asked to be
good; he wished that they should he
made happy. according to an adage:
“Make me happy and you make me
goodf’

What else can make children happier
than play? Through its play centers
located in different parts of the countrV .
the organization provides children with
an environment of joy and happiness.
It fosters in them the spirit of sharing.
giving rather than taking, so that then
do not remain self-centered but may try
and be helpful to those around them.
The idea is that they retain the spirit of
play and sportsmanship and develop
into well-adusted personalities through
creative and worthwhile leisure-time ac-
tivities acquired in childhood.

THE FIRST STEP toward achieV ing this
goal was to start “Children’s Cor-
ners” in diilercnt periodicals. This was
a new kind of venture at that time and
was greatly appreciated by children.
These pages contained a fare of once.
Continucd on Page 410

399

HISTORY’S NOT F OR BURYIN

Homespun Festival

EXPRESSIONS such as “dead as a door-

nail” fall on deaf ears in Daven-
port, North Dakota. There, a doornail
is very much alive. So are such items

Don’t let your town
bury its history—
it’s a treasure trove

for colorful

special events.

as stitching horses, stereoscopes, butter
molds and other equipment, gadgets,
and appurtenances of early America.
Davenport doesn’t believe in letting its

pioneer history grow musty in the local.

newspaper morgue, stagnate in a mu-
seum, or gather dust in attics. It puts
history into action during its annual
pioneer days celebration.

Although Davenport’s homespun fes-
tival is not as costly a production as
Virginia’s Lost Colony, or other patri-
otic spectacles, it puts on a lively show.
Last year more than twenty-five hun-
dred visitors spent an afternoon sam-
pling homemade sausage, ice cream,
and candy. They watched forty-three
live demonstrations, were entranced by
feather stripping and the making of
rope, noodles, sauerkraut, and music.
They crowded around a quilting bee,
the rug braiding, and a home recreation
show.

All this grew out of an annual rural
meeting of the Cass County Historical
Society, which four years ago decided
to invite the public to oin the fun. Re-
sponse was so enthusiastic the program
had to be repeated in 1959, and is now
considered one of the area’s major at-
tractions.

“The real lessons of Pioneer Days,”
commented the Fargo Forum editori-
ally, “is that the American people have
met the challenge of every decade with
ingenuity suited to the times. The old—
fashioned quilt may not be as handy as
today’s electric blanket, but yesterday’s
quilting bee served multiple purposes.
It filled a social need; it made use of
precious scraps of cloth, and the quilt
produced by cooperative effort pro-

400

vided the needed warmth for a long
winter night.”

Once Upon a Pirate

HE GASPARILLA FIESTA depicting the .‘
invasion of the pirates under that .

scourge to the Gold Coast, Jose Gaspar,
has been celebrated in Tampa, Florida,

since 1904. A parade and coronation *

are the main features of the week-long
fiesta held right before Lent. Mrs. Cor-
delia B. Hunt, superintendent of recrea-
tion, thought the children should some-
how be included in this annual event
and in 1948 conceived the idea of hav-
ing a Children’s Gasparilla Parade and
Coronation.

The theme of the first year’s chil-
dren’s parade was “Once Upon a Time,”
with scenes from famous children’s sto-
ries and fairy tales. The Hoats were to
be drawn by boys in costume with
thirty to forty children following each
float in costumes linked with the story
represented by the float. The recreation
department furnished the designs and
technical assistance but all the work on

RECREATION‘

 

 

 

 

Above, Cinderella in her pumpkin coach braves the Tampa
sunshine to take part in the Children’s Gasparilla Parade.
Number of entries is limited in order to assure high qual-
ity. At least two adults accompany each group of children
and first-aid stations are set up along the mile-long route.

Right, parents and children from the Sulphur Springs School I  

teamed up to get this Chattanooga C hoo C hoo chugging down 
the main stem, complete with belch of smoke from its stack.  A
Schools, youth agencies, playgrounds all participate enthu- '

siastically and spend a year preparing for the big event. 2

Below left, candle-making demonstration at the Davenport,
North Dakota, Pioneer Days celebration recaptures flavor
of vanishing Americana. Live demonstrations put history
into action, have evolved from rural meeting into a major
event now considered one of the area’s leading attractions.

the floats was done by parents of chil-
dren in the participating school. Funds
were provided by public subscription;
a budget of $5000 was set up. It was
estimated each float would cost approx-
imately $90 and a total of five thousand
children would participate. Public and
parochial schools, Boy and Girl Scouts,
boys’ clubs, and playgrounds all re-
sponded enthusiastically to present one
hundred and eight units of bands, baton
groups, marching groups and floats in
the first Children’s Gasparilla Parade.

The organizational format and group
participation has remained the same ex-
cept the financial assistance now is

OCTOBER 1961

given by the county commissioners and
Florida State Fair & Gasparilla Associa-
tion. The route is confined to within a
mile and a limit of one hundred sepa-
rate entries so that the emphasis can be
placed on the welfare of the children
and the quality of the entries. First-aid
stations are established along the route
and at least two adults accompany each
group.

The Children’s Gasparilla Festival
c’ommittee starts working on plans for
the next year’s parade immediately af-
ter the parade is over. In early October,
a meeting is called of PTA or mothers"
club presidents, principals of public and

 

parochial schools, and float chairmen.
The theme for the next year’s parade is
announced and the diagrams for the
floats displayed.

Newspapers, radio and TV have al-
ways given the children’s parade almost
as much coverage as the “big” one. For
years, the two TV stations have carried
the entire parade from beginning to the
end.

These two children’s Gasparilla
events, the coronation and parade, have
many inherent values other than giving
the children a chance to dress and pa-
rade. Thousands of parents and inter-
ested adults, by becoming involved by

401

o INCREASING MILLIONS of Americans, the outdoors
holds adventure, relaxation, and better living. To
educators, the land and all its resources offer avenues

for realism in living and learning. Recognizing that many
things can be learned best in outdoor settings, such as school
sites, parks, camps, farms and forests, gardens, and many

other community resources, the outdoors is being used as
a laboratory to help achieve the accepted objectives of edu-
cation.

The Nature and Scope of Outdoor Education—To
intelligently use the outdoors for better living, skills, atti-
tudes, and appreciations must be taught; and the school,

along with other community agencies, should provide op-
portunities for the learning of these important skills. While
it has long been recognized that outdoor activities should

be included in the broad and well-balanced education pro-

gram, the current pattern of modern living has created an

immediate and urgent need for outdoor education. Many

children and youth in this era of automation and urbaniza-

tion are beinge‘ deprived of contact with the land which

makes it necessary for schools and colleges to provide op-

o u T D o o R E D u c  I o N portunities for outdoor learning if all are to have these ex-
periences in the “growing-up process.”

. A N  I o N  The millions that engage in camping, fishing, hunting,

I I I boating, and other outdoor pursuits each year should give

a clue concerning some of the outdoor activities that should

v E N T u R E lind their way into the curriculum of schools and colleges

and into the programs of recreation and youth agencies.

The widespread interest in these creative activities in which

people can participate as they choose
for the greatest part of their lives should

 

Aimee, youngster conSLders proper placement for convince school and college adminis_
his birdhouse. Current pattern of modern living

has created urgent need for outdoor education. tratofs and teachers of .some Of the
Left, a community project. Camp Fire Girls at learmngs that Cltlzens desn'e for them‘

work in new dam recreation area at Puddingstone selves and their children-
Reservon Park, Los Angeles County, California. Outdoor education, as we see it,

is a means of curriculum enrichment
through experiences in and for the out-
Julian W. Smith doors. It is not another discipline with prescribed objec-

tives like science and mathematics; it is simply a learning
cc If all chi 1dr en an d climate which offers opportunities for direct laboratory ex-
periences 1n identlfylng and resolvmg real-life problems,

outh 0 this nation are
y f for acquiring skills with which to enjoy a lifetime of crea-

to have their rightful

_ . tive living, for attaining concepts and insights about human
heritage of experiences

and natural resources, and for getting us back in touch with
In the ont'of'doorsa all those aspects of living where our roots were once lirme
the agencies responsible established.

for education and recre- The acceptance of this concept of outdoor education
ation and those charged brings it within reach of every school, college, or other
with management of education agency in the land. Most teachers and youth

 

outdoor areas and man” leaders in then own sphere of operatlon w111 find outdoor

ral resources must lain This report on the Outdoor Recreation Project was present-
eforts to meet this chal- ed to the Ninth Annual Conference of State I titer-Agency
lenge.” Committees ‘on Recreation, Bear Mountain Inn, Palisades
Interstate Park, New Y ork. DR. SMITH is director of the
AAHPER Outdoor Education Project, and associate pro-
fessor of outdoor education at Michigan State University.

404 RECREATION

resources which they can use to enhance learning and to

provide opportunities for the acquisition of knowledge and
skills necessary for wholesome outdoor pursuits.

Examples of Outdoor Education in Schools, Col;
leges, and Agencies—“Outdoor schools,” a term often
applied to outdoor education in camp settings (or school
camping), has had rapid growth in the past decade. It is
estimated that more than seven hundred school districts in
the United States use camps as outdoor laboratories.
Field Experiences—Many curriculum areas can be enriched
through field trips and excursions to outdoor areas such as
the school site, parks, camps, forests, farms, gardens, fields,
and streams. An increasing number of schools move in and
out of classrooms to find the most effective learning environ-
ment to achieve classroom objectives.

Casting and Angling—Casting and angling are becoming
popular activities in schools, colleges, and community or-
ganizations. Instruction in bait, Hy, spinning, and spin
casting fit appropriately into physical education, recreation,
and outdoor education classes.

Shooting and H unting—Shooting and hunting, like casting
and angling, are extensive and wholesome leisure-time ac-
tivities. More maximum satisfactions and values accrue in
shooting and hunting when there is training in gun han-
dling and safety, marksmanship, conservation, outdoor
skills and woodsmanship, care and use of public property,
etcetera. Such activities as shooting and hunter training,
appropriately designed for the various age groups, fit well
into physical education classes, clubs, recreation, adult edu-
cation, and conservation activities in schools, colleges, and
community organizations. In some schools, the air rifle is
being used in later elementary grades as an instruction tool
to teach marksmanship, gun handling, and safety.

Boating and Water Activities—The number of people par-
ticipating in small craft activities is over forty million an-
nually. Interest in all forms of water activity, such as ski-
ing and skin diving, is also increasing at a high rate. The
accompanying problems of regulation, law enforcement,
safety, and education have created a basic need for instruc-
tion by schools, colleges, and community agencies. There
are significant implications for physical education, recrea-
tion, and adult education.

Archery—This outdoor sport has wide appeal to increasing

The first nationwide effort directed largely toward out-
door education was initiated August 1, 1955, when

a cooperative venture known as the Outdoor Educa-
tion Project was established by the American Associa-
tion for Health, Physical Education and Recreation.

 

numbers of individuals and families, and the growth in field
archery and bow hunting has been particularly rapid in the
past decade. Archery should be included in school physical
education and recreation programs because it has value in
muscular development and is an important leisure time
activity.
Winter Sports—In many sections of the country, the teach-
ing of skiing, skating, and tobogganing would be important
in a well-balanced physical education and recreation pro-
gram. The establishment of ski centers, artificial ice rinks,
and winter sports areas offers opportunities for community
participation by all age groups. Like the other outdoor edu-
cation pursuits mentioned, winter sports are wholesome and
vigorous and contribute to youth fitness.
Other Outdoor Living Skills—In addition to the outdoor
sports suggested by secondary school programs, there are
many other skills and activities worthy of mention. They
include hiking, bicycling, survival skills, use of compass,
mountain climbing, lapidary activities, woodsmanship, and
others. Many of the skills involved can be taught in con-
nection with subject matter areas and through co-curricular
activities. Opportunities for participation can be extended
through community recreation and youth agency programs.
The outdoor education programs underway now and those
that will be initiated in the future have significant implica-
tions for the enrichment of education and recreation. The
impact on outdoor recreation resources is very significant.
A generation of outdoor minded citizens with adequate rec-
reation skills will require more resources, but will use them
more wisely. The quantity and quality of outdoor education
and outdoor recreation for the future will depend on leader-
ship at all levels—national, state, and local. Interagency
cooperation is not only important, but is the most effective
way for states to exercise their responsibilities for outdoor
education and outdoor recreation. #

 

Beyond the‘End of the Road

THE STRESS AND STRAIN of our crowded, fast moving, high-
ly mechanized and raucously noisy civilization create
another great need for wilderness—a deep need for areas
of solitude and quiet, for areas of wilderness where life has
not given way to machinery. There is a need for relief for
jaded minds and tense nerves, a need for the restoration of
peace and the reassurance of sanity. It is a need for many
people that can best be met beyond the end of the road, away
from the ring of the telephone, where electric lights cannot
lengthen the strains of the day, but rather where early sleep
rests a man to wake at dawn and know the inspiration of
the sunrise as well as the colors of sunset—REP. JOHN P.
SAYLOR, U .S. Congressman from Pennsylvania.

0c mesa 1961

Eternal Presences

IT IS BEYOND A DOUBT that everyone should have time for
some special delight, if only five minutes each day to
seek out a lovely flower or cloud or a star, or learn a verse
or brighten another’s dull task. What is the use of such ter-
rible diligence as many tire themselves out with, if they
always postpone their exchange of smiles with Beauty and
Joy to cling to irksome duties and relations? Unless they
admit these fair, fresh, and eternal presences into their lives
as they can, they must needs shut themselves out of heaven.
and a gray dust settles on all existence. That the sky is
brighter than the earth means little unless the earth itself
is enjoyed. Its beauty loved gives the right to aspire to the
radiance of the sunrise and stars—HELEN KELLER.

I105

the BOARD ’S
RESPONSIBILITY
to the DISTRICT

Elsie J. Stuhr

panding section of suburban Portland, the Tualatin

Hills Park and Recreation District of Beaverton, Ore-

gon, is in its sixth year of operation with two of its original

board members still active. Its problems are the same as

hundreds of other American suburbs with lack of incorpo-

ration but with the basic needs of living which must be met
by special districts.

Our special park and recreation district was voted by the

people in order to acquire “space” before it became saturated

E ; ERVING AN AREA of forty square miles in a rapidly ex-

with houses, to provide constructive recreation facilities and
programs for people of all ages, and to work with other serv-
ice districts (zoning, sanitary, water, school, etcetera) in
their growing stages. For example, the recreation district
and the unified school district have purchased adjacent sites
for park and school purposes. They have been planned for
joint use from the beginning, showing excellent use of tax-
payers’ money. Two indoor-outdoor pools have been built
next to high schools so they may be used by physical-educa-
tion classes during part of the school day. One of the water
districts serving the area is designing its storage tank level
with the ground and finishing the top so that it can serve as
a tennis court. The recreation district will fence the area,
landscape it, and equip the surface for tennis. This double
use of space is made possible by the COOperation of two spe-
cial districts.

Every instance of such cooperation indicates the degree
of mutual understanding between districts, and respect—
one for the other. This type of thinking does not happen
spontaneously in a community. It must be built solidly from
the ground up. The peOple who are responsible for this
growth are primarily the elected board members.

I recall vividly the first meeting of our original board
of three members who had been key people in setting up
the district. We had had hundreds of organizational meet-
ings prior to the election which formed the district; we knew
each other very well; we knew what the others felt about
the needs for parks and recreation for our community. Yet
it took many more meetings before we felt a complete unity
of minds as to the philosophy of a board, its responsibility
to the district and the people represented.

BY OREGON LAW, boards are policy-making bodies, but

making policy is much more than looking at a ques-
tion and making a decision. Policy-making is a middle
point of action. It involves three phases.

 

MRS. STUHR is president of the Tualatin Hills Park and
Recreation District Board in Beaverton, Oregon.

406

The Tualatin Hills Park and
Recreation District Board

agree on the procedures and
the functions of a board

1. A sensitive understanding of the needs and wants of
the community.

2. A written, understood board philosophy. Our board
agreed that:

a. Our plans must Spring from the expressed needsof
the community.

b. Money must be spent from the standpoint of doing
the greatest good for the greatest number of people.

0. As board members we must represent the whole area
and not just our own living area.

d. No matter what our differences in discussing mat-
ters in board meetings, we must present a united
front based on the majority decisions.

e. We should act as a board only through board meet-
ings. There should be no unilateral promises or ac-
tions outside of board meetings.

3. We must allow the superintendent and his staff free-
dom in implementing board action. This sounds easy but
it takes constant vigilance to develop this unanimity of ac-
tion. Then, too, it is not easy to find a superintendent who
is actually able to work from community needs. It takes
someone who knows the philosophy of recreation in all of
its phases very well. He must be a master of personal rela-
tionships, a sensitive interpreter of community wants. He
must then feel the support and confidence of the board in
order to work freely.

Our board was especially lucky in finding William Pond
for our first superintendent. (Bill is now head of recreation
for Sacramento County in California.) He did such a good
job for us that our sister state lured him away. Howard
Terpenning, from another sister state, Washington, has
taken up where Bill left off and is doing a superb ob.

ONCE this rapport between the community, the board, and
the superintendent has been achieved, the board can
do many things to further the work of the district and to
give support to the superintendent and his staff. Some of
the things our board believes in are as follows:

1. Allow the superintendent complete freedom in choos-
ing his staff. If the board has done a good ob in choosing
the superintendent, he can be trusted to choose staff mem-
bers who will fit in with the overall pattern.

2. Employ paid, professional personnel and pay high
enough salaries to get and keep good peOple. Voluntary
workers may be all right in some situations, but regularly
paid personnel can be expected to be more responsible.

3. Act as a community sounding board. If controversial

RECREATION

 

issues are to come up in board meetings, encourage people
to talk about them. Then—listen!

4«. Have good avenues of communication. Let it be
known that all board meetings are public and that visitors
are always welcome. Do not encourage individuals or pres-

sure groups to corner board members outside of meetings.
Oflicial action is always taken by the board in regular
session.

5. Become informed on parks and recreation. Read pro-
fessional magazines; go to conventions, if possible. You
often hear someone say, “We need business men on our
boards.” That is true in that boards should practice good
business methods, but purchasing by boards is not just effi-
ciency in buying things. The commodity being purchased
is parks and recreation. The more a board member knows,
the more able he is in evaluating requests for purchase.
However, a board member should not set himself up as an
expert. The superintendent must be recognized as the ex-
pert in the park and recreation field.

6. Refer matters of interpretation or requests for in-
formation to the superintendent. He has been hired as

the expert. Board members use their acquired knowledge
for understanding. This does not minimize the advantage
of having people from different fields on the board; e.g.,
doctors, electricians. Each brings a wealth of expert knowl-
edge that “is useful from his special field.

 

 

 

FOLDS AND
ROLLS AWAY
m "LESS THAN
‘ 2: MINUTES! 

Steel dollies,

with rubber casters,
slip into fittings '
on side of table.

 
   
 

 
 
 
  
  
    

2 fittings
support steel .
dollies. Table
legs fold flat.

Now . . . even in tight, crowded areas . . . make pool a regular part of your program!
With easy-to-use RoIIoA-Way accessory, every Superior pool table [/49
. I -
folds and rolls away for flat, compact storage — freeing yourf car
for other activities, Write Superior for price list today!

7. Be informed on activities of the district. The super-
intendent should give Sllut't. concise reports on department
activities so that board members will know what is going
on. Sometimes work of the district can be furthered by a
board member sa} ing to an art enthusiast, “The recreation
district is having an art show on Sunday. How about enter-
ing one of your mosaics?"

8. Encourage your superintendent to keep abreast of
current thinking in his field. See that the budget includes
items for subscriptions to professional magazines, member-
ships in professional organizations, and trips to conventions.

9. Bring up for discussion in board meetings anything
that is happening in the district that you do not like, but
leave the solutions to the superintendent in those things
pertaining to his area of responsibility. A board member
never takes action in the activities of a district unless, of
course, there is a grave emergency.

10. Encourage the superintendent publicly in board meet-
ings, and quietly on the side. Let him know you think he
is doing a good job. Tell him when you have seen some-
thing you especially like. He is very human!

In some of these situations a board member treads a
narrow line of evaluation. Board members can be key peo-
ple in this great movement for recreation that is unfolding
so rapidly in our country. Dedicated board members are
good to have, but dedicated, informed board members are

better. #

FOLD 'N
ROLL-A- WAY
POOL TABLE

YEAR-ROUND HIGHLIGHT OF
YOUR RECREATION PROGRAM!

 

 

     
 

l

ya
diff:

I

.0” #' -..
.a-Lli"

 

  
 
  

 
 

SUPERIOR INDUSTRIES CORPORATION 0 520 COSTER STREET 0 NEW YORK 59, N Y 0 DAYTON 9~5

MANUFACTURERS OF FINE FOLD 'N ROLL-A-WAY TABLE TENNIS TABl ES

 

OCTOBER 1961

When writing to our advertisers please mention ertzuuno'x.

4-07

LEISURE and

MENTAL

RETARDATION

There is a need to change prevailing attitudes

Doris Berryman

IN RECENT YEARS, Americans have
found themselves with an increasing
amount of free time on their hands—
but with apparently little capacity for
utilizing it creatively or constructively.

Hundreds of people have written on
this subject from many frames of refer-
ence, but as yet no one has come up
with a definition of leisure that is ac-
ceptable to everyone else. There appear
to be two major points of view: one,
that leisure is a block of‘time not used
for work or sleep; two, that leisure is
an attitude about what one does with
his free time.

Within this tangled forest of thought
and jargon, perhaps the most important
has been stated succinctly by Clifton
Fadiman who has written: “Upon an
acute understanding of the meaning of
the word leisure our lives during the
next hundred years may well depend.
For words are not only words. They
are actors, often prime motors.”

To paraphrase Mr. Fadiman, we
might think of the creative use of free
time as a “prime motor” in the social
development of the mentally retarded
person. However, to accomplish this
purpose we will have to effect changes
in many prevailing attitudes and con-
cepts concerning leisure and recreation,
and mental retardation as well.

outmoded Concepts
One is the group of erroneous ideas

and attitudes concerning the concept of
mental age and the IQ. As far back as
1908, Binet and Simon, whose original

MISS BERRYMAN is currently doing
graduate work at New York University
under a Graduate Assistance grant from

the National Recreation Association
Consulting Service on Recreation for

the Ill and Handicapped (See RECREA-
TION, September 1961).

408

study developed the concept of mental
age, warned that: “A peasant, normal
in ordinary surroundings of the fields,
may be considered a moron in the city.
In a word, retardation is a term relative
to a number of circumstances which
must be taken into accountA in order to
judge each particular case.”

In spite of that warning and those of
some American investigators, the trend
in this country was, and to some extent
still is, to take the mental age—and
later the IQ—at face value. This nar-
row and static concept has had unfortu-
nate and far reaching effects on the
thinking of those concerned with the
play and recreation activities of the
mentally retarded. One result was rec-
reation programs based on the mental
age of the individuals involved. That
is, it was assumed that a six-year-old
with a mental age of three would neces-
sarily be interested in and capable of
performing the same kinds of activity
as a normal three-year-old.

We now know, of course, that this
simply is not true. As Dr. Paul E.
Benoit has said: “Needs are different,
social needs and personal needs; he has
a different set of expectations to meet,
and he has a much larger body to ma-
noeuver and care for. The interaction
of his social environment and his phys-
ical status is not without influence on
his play tastes.” Another result assumed
that the teenage and young adult retard-
ate would never be really capable of or
particularly interested in the activities
of_ his peers. Another erroneous con-
eept developed around the belief that
the mentally retarded represent a social
menace. In terms of recreation this be-
lief had disastrous effects. Public and
private leisure-time agencies closed
their doors to this segment of the popu-

lation. Also, the public schools and
most educators simply closed their eyes
as well as their doors to the whole sub-
ject of education for the retarded.

A third concept, widely accepted for
many years, was that the retarded could
benefit only by institutionalization or
by being placed in special groups to-
tally segregated from the normal popu-
lation. This gave the retarded child lit-
tle opportunity to even observe, let
alone participate in, the play activities
of normal children. Also, it prevented
him from learning any of the social
skills required of members in good
standing of a community.

Underlying these last two concepts
are at least two values deeply ingrained
in what Max Lerner calls our American
Civilization. One is concerned with at-
tractiveness, conformity and sociability,
and the other with economic produc.
tiveness. In general, we have tended to
ignore, if not reject, and if possible,
hide away those people who do not meet
prevailing standards.

New Approaches to

Understanding
Since World War II, however, the

concepts of rehabilitation and habilita-
tion have radically changed our ap-
proaches to understanding and study-
ing mental retardation. Now it is no
longer a question of a few outstanding
individuals or institutions crying out
like voices in the wilderness. A review
of the literature published in the last
few years—as well as of studies now in
progress—reveals an ever-increasing
interest in this field. Unfortunately,
there seems to have been little interest
in recreation or group work. This is
amazing, especially when we consider
that the vast majority of retarded per-
sons have so much free time—and so
little opportunity to do anything con-
structive or creative with it. Further-
more, the results of some studies in
other areas indicate that there is real
need for greater emphasis in education
and training on social and recreation
skills.

The reason for this lack of interest
and research in recreation appears to
be twofold. On the one hand, research
in most fields has tended to ignore
the subject because, as Dr. Alexander
Reid Martin points out: “In our present

RECREATION

culture, respect and dignity has been
given only to the work phase of this
creative process. . . . This work phase
has been glorified at the expense of the
recreation phase. . . . The workaday
world remains our sole frame of refer-
ence.”

0n the other hand, professional
workers in public and private agencies
offering recreation programs have too
often tended to become victims of our
outmoded value system, feeling that
the disabled and handicapped are no
concern of theirs—and that they are
not equipped to work with them. Also,
they seem to favor a social machine
rather than helping people use recrea-
tion as a tool for self-integration, self-
realizatioh and the freedom to live a
richer, fuller life.

It is true that in recent years state
schools and hospitals, and most private
homes and schools for the mentally re-
tarded have employed recreation per-
sonnel to develop programs within the
institutions. Some of these have been
outstanding and have added a great
deal to the existing body of knowledge
concerning mental retardation. How-
ever, only a small percentage of our
retarded population are ever institution-
alized—and in light of today’s thinking
it is likely that an even smaller percent-
age will be in the future. Thus, it is
imperative that we find a way to pro-
vide recreation programs and services
within the community.

Encouraging Trends
Fortunately we now see some other

encouraging trends. School districts
have begun to provide educational op-
portunities for the retarded within the
public schools. Also some group work
and recreation agencies and public rec-
reation departments have initiated rec-
reation activity for the retarded.

In the past two or three years local
chapters of the National Association for
Retarded Children also have shown an
increasing interest in developing rec-
reation programs, particularly for the
teenage and adult retarded. [See REC-
REATION, April 1961, “Recreation for
All Children.”] This interest may be
one result of the rapidly expanding
sheltered workshop program, for it has
become increasingly apparent that the
greatest challenge workshOp directors

OCTOBER 1961

face is the need for teaching social skills
and helping the trainee to more con-
structively utilize his time off the job.
[See RECREATION, June 1961, “Rx for
the Ill and Handicapped,” for more on
sheltered worksh0p3.]

Another reason for this interest is
that no one knows better than the par-
ents and families of the mentally re-
tarded living in the community how
monotonous and stultifying the daily
life of the average retardate is. All too
frequently he sits, day in, day out, sur-
rounded by a television set, a radio, and
a few games and toys, but cut off from
social contact except for that afforded
by his family. There are those who are
denied even these small satisfactions.

One recently proposed solution to
this problem is the establishment of ac-
tivity centers for the retarded. Such a
center can not only provide a recreative
and social program, but can offer op-
portunities to learn skills that can help
the retarded person become more fully
integrated into the life of the commu-
nity. However, such a center can all
too easily continue to isolate the re-
tarded from community life and be-
come another institution, another piece
of social machinery grinding out a
standardized, mediocre product. For
an activity center to fulfill its greatest
potential, it would seem that several
things must be kept in mind during the
initial planning phase.

The ultimate goal of the program
should be the greatest possible mobil-
ization of each person involved in it.
The programs can be so designed that
the resources and assets of each indivi-
dual are developed to their fullest po-
tential. A dynamic program can not
only teach the necessary skills, but of-
fers the needed encouragement and op-
portunities for the retardate to make
maximum possible use of existing local
recreation and leisure time resources.

Therefore, it becomes obvious that
we must place added emphasis on what
Dr. Gunnar Dybwad refers to as “the
beginning recognition that the older re-
tardate is entitled to adult status.” We
must pay more attention to the fact that
there is no sharp dividing line between
the subnormal and the normal. As Da-
vies and Eeob pointed out in The Men-
tally Retarded in Society: “The mildly
retarded on the one hand, and the dull

FOR THE ILL
AND HANDICAPPED

 

normal on the other hand, do not repre-
sent wholly different groups of human
beings, but rather a continuous series
differing in degrees but not in kind, and
shading almost indistinguishably into
one another. When the test of social
competency is taken into account, who

is retarded, and who is not, becomes
a matter of relativity.”

The Tools of Recreation

To recreate, to play, to have fun is as
much a part of the natural rhythm of
the self as it is a part of our cultural
rhythm of work, play, and rest. The
activity-center program can be so struc-
tured that we can help these people es-
tablish and feel this rhythm. We must
therefore include some activities that
might be classified as work. By incor-
porating service projects such as a J u-
nior Red Cross program, stuffing en-
velopes for a service agency, or making
party favors for children in hospitals.
we can help the retardate to feel that
he too can contribute something useful
to his community. By working with the
families of the retarded, the activity
center can help and encourage them to
include the retarded member more fully
in the daily life and the recreation pur-
suits of the family.

Because recreation is also frequently
a learning process, it offers a wide
range of opportunities to help the re-
tarded learn by doing. In addition, the
bodily movements which accompany
work and recreation activities can help
to improve posture, balance and co-
ordination, and strengthen muscles.
This is not to say that physical activity
is synonymous with recreation. how-
ever. Recreation, in the proper sense of
the word. also provides opportunities
for creative expression which few of
these. people have ever had.

We must ever keep in mind that crea-
tivity and IQ do not necessarily have
a positive correlation. Certainly the re-
tarded have every right to. and should
be given every opportunity for what Dr.
Irving Taylor has referred to as “ex-
pressive creativity.” He describes this
level of creativity as “the most funda-
mental fonn, involving independent ex-
pression where skills, originality, and

409

the quality of the product are unim- In-serVice Training

portant. . . . The important character-
istics are spontaneity and freedom
which form the foundation upon which
more creative talents develop.”

Concurrently with establishing such
centers we must set up an education
program aimed at the directors and per-
sonnel of all public and voluntary rec-
reation agencies—for without their in-
terest, understanding, and cooperation
there will still be no place for the re-
tarded to go except to the activity cen-
ter. In fact, the public recreation de-
partments must live up to their slogan:
“Recreation is for everybody.”

In visits to twelve cities in the past
year, I found in the directors of many
public and voluntary recreation agen-
cies a feeling, not so much of unwill-
ingness as of unpreparedness. In gen-
eral, they agreed that they should be
serving the handicapped—including the
mentally retarded—but felt that they
just didn’t have the know-how. Obvi-
ously, then, there has been a short-
circuit in the communication lines be-
tween the professionals working in the
field of retardation and those working
in the field of community recreation.

Effective community action to pro-
vide recreation services and programs
for the retarded can never really come
about until there is coordinated effort
on the part of all health, welfare, and
recreation agencies and organizations
to provide these services and programs
for the ill and handicapped persons.
[See “Learning to Laugh,” RECREA-
TION, September 1961

Professionals in the field of rehabili-
tation and community recreation must
work more closely together so the vari-
ous services will each be related to the

Continued from Page 403

 

should be overlooked to help these in-
dividuals adjust.

HE LEADERSHIP TRAINING PROGRAM
itself should be set up to sustain
the interest of the group in training. It
is recommended that there be an orien-
tation, with the opportunity to hear and
study background, objectives, policies
of the agency; to learn how the agency
functions in the community and how
the leadership-in-training program fits
into the total plan. A class of forty min-
utes or an hour can be held each week.
Here it is important to note that, al-
though some of the boys and girls may
have no real idea of what leadership
means in the organization, they should
be assigned regular duties, no matter
how simple, so they may feel they are
playing an important role with the
agency. At each class session, they
should be given an Opportunity to re-
port progress, ask questions, and dis-
cuss their problems.

The first year of training may deter-
mine the success of the program. The
establishment of a rapport, a careful
recording of individual accomplish-

ments is important, so the instructor,

and other staff members using the train-
ees will know at all times what is ex-
pected of them, and their development
can be observed. The trainees may also
be informed of their ratings and ad-
vised as to how they might bring up
their level of achievement.

There are many satisfactory methods
for recording progress, and many lead-
ership qualities to be checked. How-
ever, a few should be emphasized. De-

other. We will have to join hands to ' pendability, punctuality, preparation

present a united front to public offi-
cials for a fair share of the tax dollar.
The judicious use of existing facili-
ties and programs will provide oppor-
tunities to promote public acceptance
of disabled and handicapped persons as
full-fledged members of society. Cer-
tainly if the normal youngster of today
can learn to accept those who are dif-
ferent from himself, physically or men-
tally, both at school and in all of his
various recreation activities, the prob-
lems we are facing today will be re-
duced a hundred-fold tomorrow. #

410

for duties, personal appearance, atti-
tude toward authority, completion of
assignment are several. The record
should be simple enough to be used by
any staff member. After the first year
of training and evaluation, it will not
be too difficult to decide whether or not
the trainees should continue as service

. leader or be assigned to the club leader

training class.

In cases where organizations have a
leadership training program of mature
young people who have proven them-

I selves, further training may follow

along similar lines, but on an advanced
level. By recruiting the younger group
and setting up a complete graded set of
courses, there will be a definite assur-
ance of a new group of leaders coming
up with years of training and experi-
ence. Also, the leaders will be retained
for a much longer period of service,
ranging from one to ten years. Some
will make group work their career, and,
as often the case, will become part-time
or full-time staff members.

ALTHOUGH SOME FEEL that individ-

uals should be encouraged to serve
for the joy that comes from unselfish
service, it is difbcult to inspire young
people without offering them awards or
material recognition. However, we have
been successful in developing a satis-
factory system of recognition. An an-
.nual leaders’ banquet is given and all
outstanding volunteers invited. Awards
are made on the following basis: First-
year certificates extend the privilege of
attending leaders’ training camp for one
week, pro-rated according to the lead-
er’s service. Second year, pro-rated ex-
penses to attend camp are offered, plus
awards of bracelets and key chains with
“leader” and the organization’s initials
spelled out on pendants. Third year,
prorated expenses in camp are paid,
and a lightweight jacket with leaders’
emblem on it is awarded. Fourth year,
a leaders’ pin designed especially for
this organization is given. Fifth year,
a young lady and a young man with five
consecutive years’ service are selected
as queen and king of the leaders’ group
and of the organization. This ceremony
is called the Spring Festival and Coro-
nation. All leaders of the intraining
group participate in the colorful page-
ant and recognition ceremony before
parents and friends. After four years

they may also qualify for junior staff.

Another recognition which is a part

of the training program is selection to
attend a national leaders’ camp, if fully

qualified. At the beginning awards are

usually simple, and they become more 

elaborate as the trainees’ years of serv-
ice increase.

The success of the program at Kath-
erine House shows what can be accom-
plished by other organizations with a
similar program. #

RECREATION

VT

THE NATIONAL
SOCIAL
WELFARE
MANPOWER
STUDY—1960

First national survey
of recreation personnel

provides data on salaries,

working conditions
and personal characteristics

W. C. Sutherland
THE NATIONWIDE SURVEY of Social Welfare Manpower

conducted during the spring and summer of 1960 is

now available.* The study initiated by the Personnel
Committee. of the National Social Welfare Assembly was
conducted by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the US.
Department of Labor. The report includes personnel in
welfare, health, rehabilitation and recreation settings, in
voluntary and governmental agencies.

It provides data on current annual salaries and working
conditions as they relate to the personal characteristics of
the work force, programs in the field, and the position, ex-
perience, and educational levels of the workers. Except for
recreation the data is comparable with information col-
lected in 1950. The report identified 116,000 social wel-
fare workers, representing a forty-two per cent increase
over the 1950 report, exclusive of recreation leaders.

0f the 116,000 social welfare workers, 10,450 are identi-
fied as recreation leaders in government and voluntary agen-
cies. Of these sixty-four per cent were in government agen-
cies. F ifty-two per cent were in state and local government
agencies and twelve per cent with the federal government.
Thirty-six per cent were employed in voluntary agencies.
Of the total public and private recreation leaders 6,902 are
men and 3,520 are women. F orty-six per cent of the men
and thirty-four per cent of the women are thirty-five years
of age or under, with the median age of thirty-eight years.

Fifty-three per cent of the recreation workers in public
and private agencies have bachelor degrees. Fifty-one per
cent in state and local government have bachelor degrees,
while thirty-eight per cent in the federal government and
sixty-one per cent of the voluntary agency workers hold
bachelor degrees respectively. This compares rather closely

 

"' National Social Welfare Assembly, 345 E. 46th St., New York
City. $1.75 (quantity rates on request).

MR. SUTHERLAND is director of the National Recreation
Association Recreation Personnel Service.

OCTOBER 1961

with the National Recreation Association’s Southern Re-
gional Study several years ago when it was learned that
forty-seven per cent of the public recreation leaders in the
South were college graduates. The same study showed four-
fifths of the workers in voluntary agencies as degree people
or slightly higher than the current report.

0f the 10,448 public and private recreation workers,
7,165 are married; 2,215 single; and 870 widowed, di-
vorced, or legally separated. The Mid-Atlantic District re-
ported the largest number of workers public and private,
with a total of 2,332. The Great Lakes was next with 2,072
and the Pacific region reported 1,907. Taking the local and
state government workers separately, the Pacific region re-
ported the largest number of workers, 1,296; the Great
Lakes next with 1,229 and the Mid-Atlantic with 1,034. All
the other regions reported considerably less. Recreation
workers identified with federal government agencies num-
bered 1,250.

The average “median” recreation salary for recreation
workers was $5,100, and thirteen per cent received less
than $3,500. Direct service workers average 34,670, super-
visors 36,040, and executives $6,300. Salaries increased
with amount of education in the state and local government
agencies. The median salary for all positions increased from
$5,240 with a B.A. to $6,900 with two or more years of
graduate study. The median in the West increased to
$8,510. For executives in local and state government agen-
cies, the median salary increased from $6,090 with a BA.
degree to $7,230 with two or more years of graduate study.

A forty-hour week appears to be more or less standard
with about one-half of the local government workers on it.
One-fifth appear to be working a thirty-five-hour week or
less. About three out of ten recreation workers in public
and voluntary agencies are required to furnish cars with the
cost borne by the employer. Sick leave ranges largely from
ten to fifteen days and can be accumulated and carried over
from year to year by the majority of workers—in some
cases without limit. Vacation time varies from two to four
weeks and in some cases can be accumulated and carried
over from year to year in the amount of thirty days. Two-
thirds of the workers qualified for three or more weeks.
About nine-tenths of all social welfare workers are covered
by some type of retirement plan.

OF THE 10,448 recreation workers identified in the Social
Welfare Manpower study, 5,487 are in state and local
government agencies. Actually only a sample 1,463 were
studied. We believe the number of local and county gov-
ernment recreation agency people to be much higher. At
least 8,387 were identified in the National Recreation Asso-
ciation’s Yearbook for 1955. It is the writer’s guess that the
next Yearbook report, to appear this fall, will increase this
figure to around ten thousand.

The NRA was pleased to participate in the National So-
cial Welfare Manpower Study, and a great deal of interest-
ing information about recreation workers nationally has
now been recorded for the first time. The next ten-year
study, if recreation is included, should give important in-

formation for comparative study. #-

411

 
 

At Home and Abroad

0 High-school students from Scarsdale,
New York, made a dramatic entrance
into London in July with a production
of Thornton Wilder’s Our Town. The
group played to young audiences in the
Jewish Settlement House in London’s
East End and to two primary schools in
London suburbs. This trip was esti-
mated to cost $32,000. Scarsdale par-
ents raised $16,000 and all but $3,000
of the rest was contributed by the Scars-
dale community. The Rockefeller Foun-
dation gave the balance. The cast of
twenty-four youngsters, aged fourteen
to ' eighteen years, also journeyed
through the Netherlands, Warsaw, and
West Berlin.

0 At an age when many people think
they have long since finished the real
business of living, Guadalupe Morones,
born in Mexico some eighty years ago,
is learning to write. Every Thursday
morning he drives into Austin, Texas,
with his son in order .to attend citizen-

 

The best costumed couple in the Hallo-
ween parade.’ Daisy and Donald won
first prize for couples in Y orlc, Pennsyl-
vania, event sponsored by the recrea-
tion department. A quacker-jack pair.

412

 

ship classes at the Pan-American Recre-
ation Center. Some days he walks the
eight or nine miles back to his son’s
house. Mr. Morones wants to become
a US. citizen and literacy is the first
step.

0 Thirty teenage ambassadors of good
will travelled from Florida to Bogota,
Colombia, for three swim meets against
youngsters of their age. The US. swim-
mers were selected on the basis of con-
duct, appearance, and versatile swim-
ming ability. Ten of the swimmers were
from Jacksonville, the rest from other
parts of the state. While Jacksonville
has played host to teams and recreation
directors from foreign countries, this is
only the second time that a group of
youngsters has journeyed to another
country for competition. The other oc-
casion was when a playground track
team went to Cuba in pre-Castro days.

0 In Vancouver, British Columbia,
teenage members of the Marpole Com-
munity Association are foster parents
of a seven-year-old Chinese boy. Each
month they wash cars to collect money
to feed, clothe, and send the boy to

school. The Chinese youngster, adopted
through UNESCO, wrote the group

gratefully in Chinese, “I haven’t met
you before but I get your help.” The
club is now hoping to ad0pt a Chinese
girl.

0 Everything was Itik-Itik in Now Or-
leans where the recreation department

A REPORTER’S ;
NOTEBOOK

sponsors a folk dance festival each
spring. This year’s fete was an inter-
national one that featured dance organ-
izations provided by the Honduras and
Philippine consuls. Members of the
department’s ballet workshop, ballet
classes, square-dance groups, and play-
house represented Spain, Ireland, Ja-
pan, Switzerland, Russia, France and

the United States in dance. (Itik-Itilc
is a Philippine duck dance.)

0 A self-help approach to urban re-
newal has had success in Delhi, India,
in Pittsburgh and Baltimore. Improve-
ment projects termed “urban exten-
sion” are begun by a trained commu-
nity organizer and then taken over by
residents themselves. In India, commu-
nity organizers and trained workers in
public-health nursing, recreation, hand-
craft, and social education aid residents
in solving local problems.

0 Two hundred white oleander plants
prepared by the Honolulu Department
of Parks and Recreation and sent by

, I..-  J a a". \
t {:3}... ll: . I M... s- ‘_-.« -. ,,

 

Announcing Halloween! Los Angeles
Department of Recreation and Parks
used window loaned by Home Savings
Bank to announce its Halloween pro-
grams, one of a series of such displays.

RECREATION

j

 

During the Southeastern Recreation
Executives Conference two contributors
to the recreation field received well-
earned citations. Ralph Van Fleet
(left), Southern District representative
of the National Recreation Association,
presented a civic achievement award to
George G. Robinson (center), executive
secretary of the Jacksonville, Florida,
Recreation Department, for his work in
the creation of a sports complex con-
sisting of a fifty thousand-seat stadium
(the Gator Bowl), a ten thousand-seat
baseball park, and a thirteen thousand-
seat coliseum. These structures occupy
what was once a blighted substandard
housing area. The other award went to
Wellington Paul (right), vice-president
of Foremost Dairies, who has served as
an NRA sponsor over a period of years.

 

Mayor Neal S. Blaisdell to Hiroshima,
Japan, are thriving at the Hiroshima
City Botanical Nursery, according to
Mayor Shinzo Hamai. The oleanders
were sent to further the sister-city rela-
tionship between the two cities.

0 Oriental pageantry overflows Seattle,
Washington, each summer during the
Japanese dance festival of Bon Odori—
Gathering of J oy——-—which has its origin
in Buddhism. Youngsters in samurai
and Japanese-maiden make-up, elders
comically masked, kimono-clad girls,
bobbing lanterns, and gay banners
brighten the street scene near the Seat-

tle Buddhist Church.

0 American boys and girls seem to
have a greater potentiality for perform-
ing physical fitness tests, but have de-
veloped their ability less than Chinese
boys and girls, a State University of
Iowa study shows. The study of physi-
cal fitness of 1,983 Chinese boys and
girls from ten to eighteen years of age
was conducted between April and June
1960 by SUI graduate-student Tse-Kia
Tcheng of Vientiane, Laos. He gave
Chinese youths the same test which was
developed by the American Association

|_ OCTOBER 1961

for Health, Physical Education and
Recreation and given to eighty-five hun-
dred American boys and girls. His re-
port was submitted in partial fulfillment
of requirements for an M.A. degree in
men’s physical education at SUI. Chi-
nese boys and girls were found to be
superior to American boys and girls in
pull-ups (chinning), standing broad
jump, shuttle run, and GOO-yard run
walk.

0 The national colors of the United
States and Mexico intermingled in Bel-
vedere County Park and on the streets
of the Belvedere section of East Los An-
geles, California, September 16, in ob-
servance of Mexico’s 151st celebration
of its independence from Spain. A col«-
orful Mexican Independence Day Pa-
rade featured California’s Governor Pat
Brown as its grand marshal]. The Los
Angeles County Department of Parks
and Recreation arranged to devote the
entire facilities of Belvedere Park to
Mexico’s national holiday. The park is
in the heart of Los Angeles county’s
colony of Latin-Americans, who make
up the largest concentration of Mexi-
cans outside of Mexico City.

STATE SOCIETIES

HAWAII

One man’s poi may be another man’s
poison but, “There is no luau like our
luau,” claims the Recreation Associa~
tion of Hawaii. At its recent foodiest
installation of ofiicers, eighty luau lovers
went to work on pig and poi, taro leaves
and squid. Unlike last year there was
plenty of chicken-long rice to go around.
Installation of officers took place in the
contented calm after the eating sub-
sided! George Yasui was installed as
president; Edward Fujita, vice-presi-
dent; Sue Maesaka, secretary; David
Hazama, treasurer; Joseph Katsunuma,
auditor. Board members are Yasuo Hi-
rano and Aina K. Keawe, the out-going
president. A fine finger-licking time
was had by all!

 

Obituaries

 

o FRED B. SHOAFF, president of the
Fort Wayne, Indiana, Board of Park

Commissioners for twenty-seven years
and a sponsor of the National Recrea-

tion Association, died in August at the

 

Mrs. Juanita Carr-Bass has spent a
greater part of her life on the play-
grounds of Jacksonville, Florida. As a
child she participated in every play-
ground activity, became a team leader
and a volunteer helper. Later she be-
came a playground director. Even after
being stricken with multiple sclerosis
she continued working, going to her
playground to conduct activities from
her wheelchair, operating on a high
plane of efficiency. When she retired
recently she received a plaque from her
fellow workers. Seen above presenting
the award to Mrs. Bass (center) are,
from left to right, Mrs. Florida C.
Dwight, recreation supervisor emeri-
tus; George Robinson, executive secre-
tary; E. J. H ightower, recreation direc-
tor; Nathan Mallison, superintendent.

 

age of eighty-three. He had served on
the park board for a total of thirty-nine
years. His name is perpetuated in Fort
Wayne by Shoal? Park and Shoaff Lake
in Franke Park. He contributed 160
acres to the creation of ShoalI Park,
fifty-four acres to Franke Park, and
also contributed financially to the ex-
cavation of Shoaff Lake. Mr. Shoaff
was active in many other civic activities
and served as president of the local
American Red Cross chapter for many

years.

c LEWIS C. REIMANN, camp leader and
author, died in Ann Arbor, Michigan,
in August at the age of seventy. He
was a founder and former director of
the University of Michigan Fresh Air
Camp for Underprivileged Children,
founder of National Boys and Girls
Camp Week, and a former director of
camps for the YMCA. He served as
consultant for over 150 youth camps
throughout the country, directed Pres-
byterian student activities at the Uni~
versity of Michigan, and was a member
of the Michigan Methodist Camp Com-
mission. His books include The Suc-

cessful Camp.

413

FOR THE ILL
AND HANDICAPPED

THE “ZOO” VISITS YOUNG PATIENTS

.-.-.-.'a.
. - . x - .

 .43..  My.» w _  I:  . - c  .

A friendly skunk calls on a young patient at the U nwersity A duo of chicks inspire this youngster to extend his reach.
of Michigan Medical Center. Animals are used as an in- Children sometimes make a fuss when the time comes to
trinsic part of the teaching program in the hospital school. leave the hospital and bid farewell to their feathery friends.

 

The subject of the day, a chick, receives rapt attention and full examination from this trio in the hospital schoolroom.

 ,
.V ‘12; " '

      
  

 . . _- - ‘
I. 'l -. . o . h ‘ .
' ' I 3 o

That animals and children just naturally
belong together is illustrated once again
when the zoo visits young hospital patients

THE HOSPITAL SCHOOL in the Medical Center at the Uni-

versity of Michigan, Ann Arbor, makes lively use of
a “zoo” with its young hospitalized patients, and this idea
is being adapted more and more by recreation leaders work-
ing in the hospital setting.

The school itself is quite unusual. A part of the main
hospital, it provides regular, accredited instruction for
shut-in patients from the preschool and kindergarten level
through high school. The animals are used as an intrinsic
part of the teaching program in the lower grades. The
teachers are particularly adroit in using the animals to
point up lessons; for instance, “See how the cat cleans him-
self . . . cleanliness is important for boys and girls, too.”

There is also a therapeutic bonus. Doctors say the ani-
mals do wonders in getting the children to “come out of
themselves” . .
world around them, and to forget their ills. Sometimes this
interest runs away with itself and backfires: it’s no.longer
uncommon for a child to raise a major fuss when told he
has to leave the hospital and his furry or feathery friends.

. to take a new interest in the fascinating

There is a sort of floating population of animals in the
zoo; they come and go. People in the community give or
loan pets; the children are sometimes allowed to take an
animal home when they leave. Within the past few months
we have had white mice, guinea pigs, a goat, two coati mun-
dis, cats, dogs, rabbits, turtles, fish, parakeets, and baby
chicks and ducklings.

In Norwalk, Connecticut, the Norwalk Hospital holds an
Animal Day every Tuesday. About twenty ailing children
look forward eagerly all week to this exciting event—and,
in some cases, even successfully manage to delay going
home until they have seen their small guests once more.
The latter are brought from the Mid-Fairfield County Youth
Museum each week. Likely to be included are Shadow, the
grey rabbit; Eeny, Meeny, Miney, Mo, four fat and sassy
guinea pigs; an unnamed turtle; and many others. The
visitors vary.

At Orthopaedic Hospital in Los Angeles children are en-
thralled in watching the mysteries of nature unfold before
their eyes. Each spring a volunteer collects butterfly eggs
and brings them to the hospital so the children can watch
the beautiful winged creatures emerge. The “butterfly tree”
provides these children, confined to the hospital with crip-
pling diseases, injuries, and birth defects, with their only
contact with the wonders of nature. Many are amazed and
flabbergasted, all are intensely interested. One child said,

“I feel like I have been helping Cod.”

Among other hospitals making use of this natural affinity
between animals and children is Bellevue Hospital in New
York. There, the animals are used as a part of a nature

study program. #

OCTOBER 1961

 

Getting to know you. There’s nothing like a small leath-
ered friend to cheer you up when bandaged legs keep
you cribridden. That chick looks right sympathetic.

Mutual affection society. A dog can be a boy’s best
friend when he is away from home and folks. Pets do
wonders in getting children to come out of themselves.

 

415

Balkan-li-Bari

Continued from Page 399

#
upon-a-time stories, essays, and articles,

games and tricks, riddles and puzzles,
songs and smiles, etcetera, which young
readers enjoy so much. Dada’s replies
to questions, serious or humorous, were
eagerly looked forward to. Up to today,
Balkan-ji-Bari conducts children’s
pages in several journals of different
languages, and also runs its own maga-

zines.

Children’s meetings were organized
to enjoy different kinds of recreation
under adult supervision. These con-
tinue to be an important part of the
Balkan-ji-Bari program. Through such
activities, children experience close fel-

 

TO VOCALIZE

WITH
NATIONAL'S DANDY

“SING-ALONG SONG SLIOES"!!

Meetings that begin or end with sing-along sessions
are successful meetings! Watch your gang warm up
fast with a lusty group sing! Send for National's
fantastic free catalog of more than 850 all-time hit
songs. available in slide form for as low as 50c a
tune! Need a projectOr? Let us know . . . we'll save
you real dough! Write today to:

NATIONAL STUDIOS
46 West 48th Street. N. Y. 36. N. v.

———_—-——

——~—_-.

       
  
   
  

TABLE AN '1
CHAIR TRUCKS

 
  
      
       
    
       
   
   
   
   


a if

' FOLDING
PEDESTAL TABLES

Direct from factory sav-
 ing to Churches, Schools,
 Clubs, lodges and all organi-
_ x "'3' zations. MONROE 1962
* Folding Banquet Tables are

  

unmatched for quality, dura-
bility, convenience and hand-
some appearance. 68 models and sizes for
every use. Write for prices, discounts, terms.

FREE—BIG 1962 CATALOG

Co!orplctures. Full line MONROE tables, chairs,
table and chair trucks, platform-risers, port-
able partitions. Write today!

THE MONROE 00., 181 Church St.. Colfax, Iowa -

  

416

lowship. They get together at a suitable
place—some school building after the
school hours, a public hall, or even a
private house, a park, or a playground
—and have a happy time. Occasionally
some suitable exhibitions, film shows,
dramatic performances, and music fes-
tivals are arranged for them, and they
are taken on outings and excursions
and tours. Their gatherings are held on
a state and all-India basis. They are
given opportunities to stay near a sea-
shore or a hill resort during their holi-
days. The children freely mix with one
another, forgetting parental castes and
creeds, communities, and languages——
and consider themselves members of
one great brotherhood.

Balkan-ji-Bari is spread throughout
India. It has about eight hundred affili-
ated units which are centers providing
organized recreation for children, with
a membership of nearly ninety thou-
sand. Its workers are all voluntary—
men and women whose enthusiasm has
spurred them to devote their spare time
and energies to the cause. Training
camps are organized for these recrea-
tion workers periodically at different
places, and a regular training school for
child welfare is run at Bombay. It may
be pertinent here to explain that in In-
dia recreation falls under the category
of welfare along with other problems
such as health, education, and social ed-
ucation.

Balkan-ji-Bari has children’s librar-
ies in most of its units and libraries
for child welfare at several places, con-
taining appropriate books in different
languages. Though the libraries are,
for the most part, comparatively small,
their popularity is great, with enthusi-
astic children crowding in whenever
they have leisure. At many places,
classes in arts and handcrafts are con-
ducted. Whatever things the boys and
girls prepare or collect as hobbies or
crafts and materials of interest and
educative value are stored in their own
museums.

The Balkan-ji-Bari brings children
together in their leisure time for rec-
reation, supplementing their activities”
in the home and at school. This is based
on the belief that recreation is a me-
dium of education in the most liberal
sense, and that how a child spends his
leisure hours is an important determi-

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

nant of the man or woman he or she is
to become. By giving the children their
share of responsibility in working at the
center, it provides them with opportuni-
ties for leadership and thus is a training
ground for leaders and citizens of to-
morrow.

ACTIVITIES are not only recreative
but also creative in nature, as all
true recreation implies. Many of the
children living in uncongenial environ-
ments like the slum areas and middle-
class chawls find an outlet here for cre-
ative self-expression. Such organized
recreation, apart from giving an im-
petus to the creative talents of our chil-
dren, affords them an opportunity to
mix, to know and, therefore, to under-
stand one another better, and thus
strengthen the feeling of unison and the
bond of brotherhood. Besides, these
worthwhile and interesting leisure ac-
tivities keep them away from mischief,
and in that way act as an effective pre-
vention against juvenile delinquency.
At several places, Balkan-ji-Bari con-
ducts children’s recreation centers,
parks, playgrounds and hobby clubs.
All psychologists believe; that there
are some fundamental needs of children
which have to be satisfied if they are
to develop healthy personalities; and
the most important need of children is
play. It is necessary not only for his
immediate happiness and well-being but
has also great value as a means for
physical, social, and emotional growth.
For this, the child needs not only play
material, equipment and facilities, but
also companionship of children of his
own age and adult supervision. The
Balkan-ji-Bari attempts to provide these
through its units which reach only a
small percentage of millions of children
in India. This work will have to expand
much more, and many centers are
needed in areas and localities that have
no other facilities for organized recre-
ation for their children. It is encourag-
ing to see that the need for and signifi-
cance of its work is gradually being
recognized. It has to go a long way and
has a stupendous task ahead; but the
Balkan-ji-Bari will continue its work
for children because it is founded on the
belief that children are not only the
wealth but the happiness of a nation,

as of the whole world. #

RECREATION

 

RECREATION SHOWCASE

Xenophon Morris

Make a splash in telling your Story locally WINDOW SHOPPERS 1x Richmond, Virginia, were re-

cently given a look-see at the recreation depart-

ment’s program in a series of live demonstrations
put on in a department-store display window. An estimated
120,000 persons saw a puppet play, baseball clinic, creative
music group, ballet, wildlife exhibit with live groundhog
and skunk, and ceramic demonstration, among other pres-
entations. All this took place at Thalhimer’s, a downtown
department store which offered the recreation department
use of one of its display windows for two weeks.

A trafIic-bureau survey showed that an average of ten
thousand persons a day passed Thalhinier’s window. Heav-
iest daily trailic was at noon and on the two evenings that
the store stayed open until 9:00 RM. On this basis, the de-
partment planned a live demonstration for every day during
these peak trach hours, and a fixed exhibit for other hours.
This meant coordinating fourteen different live exhibits to
be easily demonstrated in a window space approximately
8’ by 15’; and developing a fixed display that could be re-
moved from the window whenever live demonstrations were
in progress. Thalhimer’s stall helped set up displays. made
posters and background scenery. The store prm ided a large
sign with the department’s 1900 slogan, "Recreation {inte-

Opening D (“W of the Recreation Showcase in a downtown de' way to New Adventures in Living." which remained in the

pummel.” Store window ".1 Richmond’ irgmm' Lwe dem' window during the entire period. Two panel posters listing
onstratzons alternated With fixed exhibits for two weeks.

 

the complete recreation program and the public facilities
available in the city were placed permanently at one end
of the window. Individual easel posters listing the name.
date, and time of live demonstrations and the sponsoring
neighborhood playground or center were provided for each

OCTOBER 1961 1.17

program. In addition, Thalhimer’s
loaned four microphones, two outside
loudspeakers, floodlights, and back-
ground panels. Each hour-long pro-
gram was broken into ten- and fifteen-
minute periods in which the individual
performances were given.

THE CREATIVE music demonstration,
given by playground children,
showed that by using just the mouth,
feet, and hands one can create musical
sounds. To carry their creation of mu-
sic a step forward, the children added
a washboard, a kazoo, metal bottle
opener, wooden ruler, lard tin, padded
stick, horseshoe, sand scrapers, sleigh
bells tied to a child’s pancake turner,
and blocks. The music they created
with these objects was, in effect, the be-
ginnings of an orchestra. During the
demonstration two little girls almost
fought before the spectators. Each was
trying to outdo the other in making
the loudest sounds, and the audience
grew larger and larger with every antic.
The department is still trying to dis-
cover if the girls planned their competi-
tion to draw attention to the music
demonstration.

Always, the shows with children drew
the largest crowds. “Out of the Story
Book,” a puppet play based on Little
Red Riding Hood, was a howling suc-
cess. For this production, the play-
ground children wrote, directed, and

121‘. to the.
THE REPORT of the Camp Fire Girls’
two-and-a-half year conservation
project, Gift to the Nation, is a very im-
pressive document. First of all, the ac-
count and listing of the many projects
done by the half a million Camp Fire
Girls is worthy of the highest praise.
The planting of over two million
trees, the building of almost eight thou-
sand birdfeeders, not to mention the
many fish spawning boxes, erosion
plantings, deflector dams, anti-litter
campaigns, new nature trails, the tree
census made in many communities, the
beautification of park and recreation
areas—all of these are real and valuable
services to our nation and its people.

Second, the report proves and em-
phasizes an important and sometimes

418

made their own puppets. The screams
of Little Red Riding Hood, as the big,
bad wolf chased her, carried some dis-
tance. Luckily, there was a policeman
directing traffic past the store window
who assured people, as the screams be-
gan, that no murder had been commit-

ted.

The last live performance, illustrated
storytelling, turned out to be a “sleep-
er.” At the beginning of the program,
the performing children were attentive,
wide awake, and held up the proper
illustrations at the proper story telling
time. However, as the stories pro-
gressed, heads began to nod and eyes
to shut. By the time the show was over,
waiting parents had no trouble in per-
suading their children to go home to

bed.

AT THE CONCLUSION of the first live
demonstration, the window was
cleared to prepare for the fixed exhibit.
In addition to the permanent materials
already described, the exhibit consisted
of an automatic revolving picture
viewer with forty-eight colored slides
depicting the different phases of the
recreation operation, and a 4’-by-8’
black Hannelboard on which were
shown black-and-white photographs of
playground and community center ac-
tivities. A scale model of Dogwood
Dell, Richmond’s new outdoor amphi-

Watt?)

overlooked or minimized point in pro-
gram planning— that young people
don’t mind hard work, won’t shirk
responsibility when they know the job
they are doing is important, and when
they are doing something they can take
pride in. Besides, half a million girls
can’t be wrong!

Wouldn’t it be a good idea to look
at what club groups are doing in your
department? Is there some motivation,
some local emphasis or need, that can
be met by really interesting and worth-
while service projects? The Camp Fire
report gives many factors for successful
programs. One is the fact that the girls
had a choice. No single project was

given out as a nationwide effort. Ideas
were collected from local groups all

theatre in Byrd Park, specimens of Vir-
ginia rocks and minerals, and pictures
of native Virginia birds from the nature
and wildlife program were also dis-
played.

To capture the attention of passersby,
the Chesapeake and Potomac Telephone
Company of Virginia furnished and in-
stalled a “message-repeater” in the win-
dow, which repeated a one-minute mes-
sage whenever someone pressed a por-
tion of the glass window labeled “Press
Here.” This message was narrated for
the department by Raymond Schreiner,
announcer for local radio station
WRNL. Reactions to the “Press Here”
sign are amusing. Some persons pressed
it instantly, others hesitated before get-
ting enough courage, some persons re-
fused to press at all.

The Richmond Department of Recre-
ation and Parks felt that both the fixed

'and live demonstrations were excellent

methods of acquainting the public with
its recreation program and encourages
other recreation departments to work
with stores in their own communities.
If they do, they should find their staff
enthusiastic and the public intrigued,
as they put “their best foot forward”
in the cause of public recreation. #

 

MR. MORRIS is coordinator of publicity
and research for the Department of Rec-
reation and Parks in Richmond, V ir-
ginia.

over the country, and any group could
make its own choice. Another factor
is that of planning. Each project was
capable of progression, required indi-
vidual and group action, had a real rea-

son for needing to be done.

Agencies and leaders can learn a
great deal from reports like this—not
only in how to make them interesting
to read and attractive in appearance,
but also, between the lines, how to sat-
isfy the innate need to be useful. “Use-
ful play” is an original (phrase used by<
a five-year old boy—but it’s a fine {ail
phrase for recreation leaders to keep in
mind—VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN, Direc-
tor, National Recreation Association

Program Service.

RECREATION \

 

 

Kenneth Smithee

Parks For Free

Precedent established by an Arizona homebuilder

has tremendous implications for

many communities across the country

OOPERATION between a home
C builder and a local government

is advantageous to both. As
Charles W. Miller, county manager for
Maricopa County, Arizona, states,
“Cities and counties do not always have
money available, but they are most
always willing to operate a park if
someone else will bear the cost of con-
struction.” The homebuilder wants
parks and recreation areas in his resi-
dential developments, but not the re-
sponsibility of maintenance. The solu-
tion is a sharing of responsibility.

As a result of such cooperation, John
F. Long, Arizona’s largest home-builder
and possibly the nation’s largest, has
saved Maricopa County thousands of
dollars in recreation money and pro-
vided outstanding community features

 

MR. SMITIIEE is director of the Mari-
copa County Parks and Recreation De-
partment, Phoenix, Arizona.

OCTOBER 1961

for his residential development. The
county, which has one of the most ag-
gressive land-acquisition programs in
the nation, is cooperating completely,
to the advantage of other builders who
wish to do the same. Mr. Long, who be-
lieves homebuilders and local govern-
ments can work together on recreation
to the mutual benefit of all, was the first
builder to present parklands to Mari-
copa County since the county’s parks
and recreation program was established
in 1953, and also the first builder in the
state to give a county or city a com-
pletely landscaped, fully equipped and
developed, ready-for-use park.

A few years ago Mr. Long gave
twelve acres of land to the county, and
parks and recreation officials were
agreeably surprised when he offered to
sell the swimming pool at his cost. Last
year, when he completed his six-and-a-
half acre Holiday Park in the northwest

Upper left, John F. Long (left) presents the deed and
keys to newly completed Holiday Park to Charles Mil-

ler, county manager for Maric0pa County, Arizona.

ribove, tennis court in foreground and swimming pool
tn background are two of the many diherent types of
facdtttes included in the completed ready—to-use park.

Left, the swimming pool and bathhouse at Holiday Park
serve a large segment of the development. Value of the
county park has been set at approximately $150,000.

Phoenix community of the same name,
it had the works—swimming pool, com-
plete landscaping, community-service
building with equipped kitchen. He pre-
sented it, lock, stock and barrel, to the
county board of supervisors.

About six months later he came
through with an even bigger area, his
eight-acre Starlight Park, which he also
gave to the county, ready to move into.
Meanwhile, he finished an eighteen-hole
municipal golf course, complete with
clubhouse and restaurant facilities,
built at his own expense, and presented
it on a lease-purchase agreement to the
city of Phoenix. In the future he plans
a forty-acre park as well as two or three
smaller ones in Maryvale, his planned
community of fifty thousand persons,
which is already larger than Yuma, the
state’s fourth largest incorporated city.

Mr. Long has sold, leased, and given
away valuable acreage on which a less
civic-minded builder might have been
tempted to build more homes. He be-
lieves it’s worth it. “Parks help sell
homes,” he says, “W hen we built the
park in our Holiday Park addition,
homes sold thirty percent faster than we
anticipated. Everyone wanted a home
as close to the park as possible. We can

419

please the home buyer with our homes
—we have proven that. But today’s
homeowners demand — and deserve —-
community facilities close to their
homes.”

ARICOPA COUNTY has conducted an
intensive program of land acquisi-
tion since 1957, when the National Rec-
reation Association, at the request of
the Community Council, conducted a
county-wide parks and recreation sur-
vey financed by Maricopa County and
the city of Phoenix. Some of the im-
portant survey recommendations which
were made and put into immediate ef-
fect were:

1. A full-time, qualified land-acquisi-
tion agent was employed for the sole
purpose of negotiating for neighbor-
hood, urban, and regional park sites.
As a result, homebuilders became aware
that the county was willing to meet them
halfway on park development. Follow-
ing John Long’s lead, other builders-—
Meredith Construction, John Hall,
Ralph Staggs, Oasis Land Development,
and Lusk Corporation——-each donated
one or more park sites.

2. A full-time landscape architect
was employed to prepare a master plan
of development for each park. His serv-
ices are free to homebuilders who wish
to cooperate in the park program, re-
sulting in a savings in planning time
and costs to the builder and resulting in
more uniformly laid-out parks in his

subdivision, a good selling point.

3. When possible, neighborhood
parks began to be located adjacent to
elementary schools so that established
school facilities, such as lunchrooms,
auditoriums, classrooms, and shops,
could be used not only for school pur-
poses, but for recreation purposes as
well. This eliminated duplicating facili-
ties and thus saved thousands of dollars
in public funds. Use of school facilities
by the county is assured by a written
agreement between the board of super-
visors and each district’s school board.

In order to protect the homebuilder,
Maricopa County ofiicials drew up a
detailed contract whereby the county
agrees to make specific yearly develop-
ments at specified cost on a donated
park, or the site reverts to the nearest
city or town. Homebuilders—who in
most cases install paving, curbs, gutters,
and utilities—appreciate this protection
against a possible eyesore in their com-
munity due to unavailability of public

funds.

MARICOPA COUNTY, the city of Phoe-

nix, and other cities work closely
together to avoid duplication of park-
sites, the locations of which are secret
while in the acquisition stage. The city
often takes over a county park by com-
munity annexation. In this case, park
employees are transferred to the city
payroll with all rights, privileges, sick
leave, and at least equal pay or better,

 

 
 

  
 
 

SOMETHING FREE for you! Don’t miss Page
431, in color, with its Trade Mart listings, telling

how to get free materials.

 

RECREATION

ECONOMIST

forTENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY

TVA's Division of Reservoir Properties hos an opening for a Recreation Economist to
conduct reseorch ond advise on economic aspects of recreation resource development
an TVA reservoirs and shorelonds ond in tributary areos.

The work will involve contacts, discussions ond exchonge of informotian with high-
ronking officials ond staff members of public and private recreotian agencies ond
arganizotians. This position requires training equivalent to groduation in economics
or city or regionol planning from a college or university of recognized standing, plus
odditional groduate level training or research experience in the fields of economics,
public administration, water resources, recreotion, or land management.

Beginning solory of $8,600 or $10,800 (depending upon quolificotions) for a 40 hour
work week. Automotic within grode increases for satisfactory service ond liberal voca-
tion and sick leave, retirement, haspitalizotian and insuronce benefits.

Send resume to EMPLOYMENT BRANCH

TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY
KNOXVILLE. TENNESSEE

—_-—__—_-I—-—_-—_-————

420

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

and the park program continues without
a bitch and no hard feelings.

During the past six years Maricopa
County has given the city of Phoenix
389 acres of leased land for the Squaw
Peak Regional Park, plus twelve other
sites totaling 336 acres of deeded land
valued, with improvements, at more

than $1,200,000.

The Maricopa County Parks and Rec-
reation Department operates programs
in thirty school areas, nine neighbor-
hood parks, two regional parks, includ-
ing a large lake area, a championship
rifle and pistol range, totaling about
nine thousand acres, and is cooperating
on an eighteen-hole golf course being
developed in Estrella Mountain Re-
gional Park, without cost to the county,
by a Golf Course Citizens Advisory
Committee.

The department’s land acquisition
program is not restricted to the urban
area. Serving the ninth largest county
in the nation, . which covers 9,226
square miles with a maximum length
of 160 miles, the department is develop-
ing a parksite at Gila Bend, seventy
miles southwest of Phoenix, and a ten-
acre park near Apache Junction, thirty
miles east near the Pinal County linen

HILE Maricopa County is over-

sized, the budget is not, and the
department continues its program to get
“parks for free,” or at least at minimum
expense to the taxpayer.

How do local parks and recreation
officials get the builders to cooperate?
It is homebuilder John F. Long’s opin-
ion that all they have to do is ask. “I
believe most homebuilders will go all
the way if parks and recreation officials
let them in on enough of their thinking
so that they can do some advance plan-
ning to set aside the needed lands,” he
said recently. With a land-acquisition
agent to contact the builder, a land-
scape architect to help him plan the
parks, and a contract to protect him, the
Maricopa County citizen is doing just
that. Mrs. Ruth A. O’Neil, vice-chair-
man of the Maricopa County Board of
Supervisors, adds, “The total value of
the land and improvements is consider-
able, but the real value can only be
measured in the enjoyment received by
the children and adults who use these

areas.” #

RECREATION

K
I

 
    

RESEARCH
BRIEFS

George D. Butler

State Park Statistics

THE NATIONAL PARK SERVICE has issued two publications

giving detailed information on state parks in the United
States. One of these is the annual inventory entitled State
Park Statistics—1960. This contains information on ex-
penditures by state park agencies, sources of funds, attend-
ance, acreage, personnel, and anticipated 1961 expenditures,
in most cases as of June 30, 1960. The report indicates that
attendances at state parks in 1960 totaled more than 259,-
000,000. By far, the greatest percentage of increase in park
use was in tent and trailer camping, which showed an in-
crease of eighteen percent over the preceding year. Expend-
itures by state park'agencies totaled more than $87,000,000,
which, prorated among the number of visits, represents a
cost per visitor of twenty-two cents for operation and main-
tenance, and twelve cents for capital improvements. The
net cost per visitor for operation and maintenance, however,
is thirteen cents if the amount of revenues from operation
is taken into account.

The other report, entitled State Parks: Areas, Acreages
and Accommodations, 1960, contains data as of January 1,
1960. It lists individual state areas classified under the fol-
lowing headings: Parks, Monuments and Historic Sites,
Recreation Areas, Parkways and Waysides. This publica-
tion brings up to date information last issued five years
previously, and reveals an increase of eight percent in the
total acreage and twenty-eight percent in the total number
of areas. The most striking increase is in the case of in-
dividual camp sites, which number 56,321, or sixty percent

more than 1955.

Local Studies

RECREATION DEPARTMENTS faced with special problems
often seek a solution by conducting studies of policies

and procedures adopted by other cities. Two examples of

such studies follow:

The park commission in Greenwood, Mississippi, made
plans in 1960 to expand its recreation program to include
adult basketball and volleyball, but the only available gym
belonged to the school system. The local school authorities
were of the opinion that no other school system in the state
permitted the city recreation department to use school gyms
for adult recreation: Alfred Elliott, superintendent of parks
and recreation, determined to investigate. A survey was
made which included all Mississippi cities having a year-
round municipal recreation program. The hundred percent
response indicated that school gyms were used extensively
by city recreation departments for both adult and children’s
programs. It revealed that excellent relationships exist be-
tween schools and recreation departments. None of the cit-

OCTOBER 1961

ies reported that permission was refused, and in only one

city (Jackson) was a rental fee made.

As a result of the survey, Greenwood has received per-
mission from the school authorities to use the school gym,
without charge, for both children’s and adult recreation
whenever the gym is not needed for school purposes.

Leonia, New Jersey, is one of the many communities in
which public streets have been set aside for coasting over
the years, but increasing hazards resulting from such use
and the difficulty in providing adequate supervision raised
a question as to the desirability of continuing such activity.
At the request of the Leonia Recreation Commission, its
superintendent, Joseph Bannon, made a study of the prob-
lem in an attempt to learn of the experience of other local
authorities to determine the responsibility of municipalities
and personnel when public streets are used for coasting.

Results of the study have been issued in a forty-six-page
report entitled, Municipal Liability when Coasting on Pub-
lic Streets.* The data are based upon 125 questionnaire
returns submitted by authorities in thirteen states, the opin-
ions of several municipal attorneys who were interviewed,
and an analysis of available cases involving coasting acci-
dents. Among the topics covered in the report are: ordi-
nances for street closing, agencies Sponsoring coasting, types
of supervision, and methods of protecting coasters.

A few of the major findings were:

0 Various authorities are responsible for the street coast-

ing program.

I Coasting on public streets is provided by thirty-six of the

125 cities reporting.

0 Reasons given for not permitting such use were:
Considered too dangerous 35 Cities
Public opinion disapproves the practice 23 ”
City ordinance prohibits it 20 ”
Liability considered too great 14 ”
Others—no reason given 33 ”

0 Of thirty-six municipalities sponsoring a coasting pro-

gram: Only twelve had requested an opinion from their

attorney and only one had received such an opinion in
writing. Only eight had passed legislation regulating the
setting aside of certain streets for coasting.

0 There is evidence of inconsistency in court decisions in

cases involving lawsuits for injuries received while coasting

on reserved public streets.

The findings were a factor that influenced the decision of
the Leonia Recreation Commission to discontinue its street

coasting program.

Pool Finishes

According to the December, 1960 issue of Swimming
Pool Age, “Recent surveys conducted by paint manufac-
turers as to the causes of paint failure on pool finishes found

the following facts: ninety percent of paint failures were

due to improper surface preparation; one percent to struc-
tural defects or improper finish; eight percent to insufficient
paint film; and one percent to the filling of the pool without

alloting sufficient drying time for the paint.”

 

I'Copies are available from the recreation commission for $1.00.

12]

STATE

AND

LOCAL
DEVELOPMENTS

Elvira Delany

 

HAWAII. Honolulu recently dedicated its new pavilion in
Swanzy Park. The pavilion includes a covered lanai for
gatheringsgrestrooms and dressing areas for men and wo-
men, a parkkeeper’s storage rooms, and a recreation equip-
ment room, at a cost of approximately $50,000. Also com-
pleted at the park are two paved volleyball courts, a paved
basketball court, and parking area.

ILLINOIS. In Peoria, the park district and the recreation

department have set up a cooperative “merger” wherein
the park district retains the recreation department to con-
duct programs on park district facilities. Under this ar-
rangement, f0r example, the park district maintains the Det-
weiller Marina on the Illinois River which will be, when
completed, the largest marina on the Illinois River, housing
about six hundred boats.

0 Voters in Glencoe approved a $250,000 bond issue for the
joint acquisition by the Glencoe Board of Education and
the Glencoe Park District of approximately four acres of
residential property adjacent to the village junior high and
elementary school. Each of the agencies submitted separate
bond proposals for $125,000, with the voters having a
choice of casting separate ballots for either one or both
propositions at the same polling places. The additional area
will expand to twelve acres the school’s available physical
education and recreation play space. In addition the voters
approved a half mill additional tax for park district opera-
tions.

0 An undeveloped portion of Northwest Park in Decatur

 

has been renamed Horace B. Garman Memorial Park. The
late Mr. Garman was president of the Playground and Rec-
reation Board for twenty years. The local Lions Club will
provide recreation equipment for this area over the next
three years and the park district will add a pavilion. The
park will have facilities for tennis, horseshoes, softball,
baseball, besides a variety of recreation equipment for small

children.
0 The Chicago Park District will spend $1,000,000 to ex-

pand four Southside small-boat harbors. Improvements in-
clude more parking space and berthing slips in Burnham
Park; dredging the outer and inner harbors of Jackson
Park; building a steel shelling wall from the Chicago Yacht
Club to Convent Point, constructing launching ramps on
the north end of Calumet Park Beach at 95th Street and at
79th Street and the lake.

0 The Cook County Forest Preserve District will construct
a pleasure-boat facility on the south bank of the Little Calu-
met River. The boating center will cost an estimated $80,-
000 and will consist of thirty acres of wooded frontage on
the river. This is the first such facility planned by the For-

est Preserve.

MICHIGAN. The Royal Oak Parks and Recreation Depart-

ment has had considerable cooperation and assistance in
developing nature trails and conserving wild flowers in
a heavily wooded, undeveloped 23-acre park. The local
branch of the National Farm and Garden Club, school-
teachers, and scout troops volunteered to build wood-chip
nature trails, construct an entranceway and fence, make
signs, and mark flowers and trails. They have also solicited
the support of the State Conservation Department, other
garden clubs, and local groups to preserve this area. Now,
many school classes, scout troops, and other groups use and
enjoy this area as an outdoor laboratory to study nature.
Ultimately, plans for the park will provide, in addition to
nature trails, a playground and active recreation area, pic-
nic area, and a training area for fire, police, and civil de-

fense.

0 Pontiac is busy improving and developing park and rec-
reation areas. During 1961, Kiwanis Park will acquire a
baseball diamond, playground apparatus, and more plant

Continued on Page 437

The Climatron, an aluminum and plas-
tic geodesic structure designed for the
Missouri Botanical Garden in St. Louis
won the 196] R. S. Reynolds Memorial
Award of $25,000. This marks the hrst
time the award was given to American
architects, Joseph D. Murphy and 
gene 1. Mackey of the St. Louis archi— In
tectural firm of Murphy and Mackey.
The Climatron is actually a display
greenhouse for tropical plants grown
under simulated tropical conditions.

RECREATION

 

BOWLING FOR EVERYONE

Recreation departments chth up a big score in bowling programs

Junior Bowling

S- JUNIOR BOWLING PROGRAM which

has grown in three years from an

average attendance of fifty boys
and girls to a total enrollment of two
hundred is reported by the Westbury,
New York, Recreation Commission. Its
success is attributed to its being a well-
rounded program including instruction,
competition, and social opportunity at a
minimum expense. Also, it is conducted
in wholesome surroundings under
proper supervision. The latter is, of
course, the prime essential in the suc-
cess of any recreation venture.

The Westbury program is headed by
Frank Dragon, a city-certified instruc-
tor, and Eleanor Sharp, a resident-
certified instructor. These leaders are
ably assisted by a host of qualified vol-
unteers who are either city- or resident-
certified instructors. Consequently, the
youngsters are continually exposed to
outstanding individual as well as group
instruction throughout the entire sea-
son. This instruction covers the funda-
mentals of selection, handling, and de-

OCTOBER 1961

livering the ball, and also stresses bow}-
ing etiquette, which has a definite car-
ryover value and insures proper con-
duct throughout the program from the
first session. Some youngsters in the
program have already bowled two hun-
dred or more games. In the 1959 Na-
tional Christmas Tournament, a West-
bury entrant, Lynn Wood, placed twen-
ty-seventh among 130,000 participants.

The season opens in October, with a
free bowling clinic conducted by a rep-
resentative of the American Junior
Bowling Congress. Following the
clinic, the youngsters roll games to de-
termine their averages and enable the
leaders to place them in their proper
categories with regard to sex, age, and
ability.

Teams are then formed and assigned
to leagues for the season-long competi-
tion. At present the youngsters are
grouped in teams which compose two
male and two female leagues. All the.
boys and girls participating are in
grades seven through ten.

 

Aside from the regular competitions,
two tournaments are held annually, one
at Christmas time and the other at the
conclusion of the March season. Here,
the youngsters compete locally and na-
tionally; on an individual as well as a
team basis.

One of the stimulating features of the
program is the constant formulation of
statistics which not only show how an
individual or a team has performed in
a single game or series, but how the in-
dividual and team are performing ac-
cording to handicaps and averages over
the entire season. Thus. progress can
be determined at once. and faults can be
detected and corrected almost immedi-
ately. Scores range from the. high two-
digit numbers to very respectable three-
digit figures.

At the conclusion of the season. an
annual awards banquet is held and su-
perior bowling recognized. Awards are
made for high scores in tournaments.
for bowling three Consecutive games

123

 

Meeting a Need

WHEN THE Schuylkill Haven, Penn-
sylvania, recreation department
was making plans for the winter pro-
gram, we asked many women if they
would be interested in joining a bowl-
ing league. We received two answers,
“I’d love to, but I don’t know how to
bowl,” or “I sure would, but I can’t get
away during the evening when the chil-
dren are home.” Thinking about these
answers gave us an idea: why not offer
free bowling instruction and then form
a league that would bowl afternoons
while the children were in school?

We got in touch with the local bowl-
ing establishment. Because its alleys
are practically deserted on weekday af-
ternoons, it welcomed the business and
agreed to do everything it could to co-
operate with us. This offer went so
far as to include two-hour instruction
periods, the furnishing of balls, shoes,
instructors, and free games for practice.

A week later we ran an announce-
ment in both local papers. Forty-two
women turned out for the first instruc-
tion period, enough to start a small
league but not as many as we had hoped
for.
power of a woman! After further word
was passed around town, sixty-four wo-
men attended the next two sessions.

Organization —— They elected ofiicers
and picked their own live-man teams.
Twelve teams resulted, and the team
names were submitted to the league sec-
retary. Since the league started playing

424-

Did we ever underestimate the

It’s a strike! Bowling has reached new high in popularity.

with an identical score, for scoring with
a difficult 7-10 split, and so on.

The interest and cooperation of the
proprietors of the Roosevelt Bowler-
ama, where the competitions take place,
is another reason for the program’s suc-
cess. They realized the value of such a
venture when they were approached in
1957, and have made lanes available,
honored A. J. B. C. membership with a
schedule of reduced rates, provided all
necessary bowling shoes free of charge,
and prohibited the sale of liquors or op-
eration of vending machines other than
foodstuffs while the program is in ses-
sion. They have also honored outstand-

at 1:15 PM, we made several rules to
insure that the women would be home
by 3:30 PM to meet their children
coming home from school. We could
allow only two hours for the three
games each team would bowl.

We solved the problem of absentee-
ism by ruling that only four bowlers
from each team would bowl each game,
and that if all five bowlers on a team
showed up, one of them would sit out
each game. If only three bowlers
showed up they could use an “extra”
from another team to bowl with them,
or if they wanted to they could bowl
with just the three and count their op-
ponents’ lowest score as their fourth
score. Since the women were not too
concerned about winning or losing but
just about having an opportunity to
bowl, these rules have worked out very
nicely. A committee composed of the
league officers and the team captains
was set up to review complaints and

protests.
it * * *-

With these few simple rules the
league began bowling the following
week. There were a few high scores (in
the 120’s) and many low ones but the
women were as enthusiastic as ever. As
the weeks went by the women became
more relaxed. They gained confidence
in their ability. True, the scores weren’t
anything to brag about, but they felt at
ease with others of the same ability.

During the first few months the teams

ing achievements with house awards
and have never placed a time limit on

the activity, which is held on Saturday
mornings and sometimes extends to
early afternoon.

The Westbury Recreation Commis-
sion feel that the junior bowling pro-
gram is definitely making its mark on
the community. They wholeheartedly
recommend that this type of program

be initiated elsewhere, to help in the I

providing of wholesome leisure time ac- |

tivities.—N. ARTHUR BLEAU, Superin-

tendent of Recreation, Westbury, New I

York.

 

leveled off until there were three teams
with top standing, and others closely
bunched behind the leaders. The spirit
of these women is not one of keen com-
petition where feelings can get hurt, but
one of friendly competition.

Looking back over the initiation of
this program we made several observa-
tions. First, many of .these women
would probably have not learned to
bowl if we had not formed this league.
Second, the league requires practically
no supervision from the recreation de-
partment. Third, the women are now
bowling with their husbands and chil-
dren, making it an occasion for family
recreation. Fourth, and most impor-
tant, we have come to better understand
that in almost any area of leisure time
activity, be it in card playing, basket-

ball, bowling, or knitting, the person‘

who does not have an opportunity to
learn skills and improve his abilities
will soon give up the activity for some-
thing else. Or, much worse, he may
never try it at alll—WILLIAM H. HOPE,
Recreation Director, Schuylkill Haven,
Pennsylvania.

     

Athletics are not just for the

to the “dub” as well as the skilled in-

dividual, the weak as well as the

strong, the girl as well as the boy.—
CHARLES BUCHER,

New York University.
WW

RECREAI ION

skilled few. They should be geared V

l

i

TheyDo It Themselves

How a one-man recreation department with limited funds

organized a golden-age program

Gordon B. Jaeger

EN AND WOMEN sixty years of
age and older are mature, in-

telligent individuals, capable of
planning and carrying out their own
recreation activities with a minimum
amount of guidance. On this major
premise the recreation department in
Merrill, Wisconsin, organized a golden-
age club about three years ago.

This assumption, and others, had to
be made and proved in order to form
a successful club in this small commu-
nity (population about ten thousand).
A one-man recreation department can-
not possibly devote much time regu-
larly to any one activity. After the de-
partment does the initial spadework,
spending considerable time in planning
and working with the group during its
formative stage, the members must, of
necessity, carry on their own activities.

Since no funds were budgeted for the
purpose, it was necessary to enlist com-
munity support for the program right
from the start, particularly because it
was felt that golden-age activities
should be made available to all citizens
without charging any fees or dues. The
community got behind this project one
hundred per cent. Everyone who was
asked to help did so with enthusiasm.

First, a meeting place had to be avail-
able at least one afternoon each week,
and the Citizen’s American Bank made
its clubroom and facilities available
each Thursday afternoon at no cost.
The city provided free bus rides to and
from meetings. Members who drive to
the meetings are allowed to park free at
certain designated parking meters.

Providing refreshments without
charging a fee threatened to pose a
problem—but a local grocer voluntarily
offered to contribute them on a sched-
uled basis.

 

___-—

MR. JAEGER, currently a graduate stu-
dent at the Indiana University School
of Health, Physical Education. and Rec-
reation, was formerly director of rec-
reation in Merrill, Wisconsin.

OCTOBER 196]

AT THE OUTSET the recreation direc-

tor had to direct activities and plan
for the club. Most of the people did not
know each other; some had not met
since they were children. They did very
little talking; but, gradually, this ten-
sion began to ease; by the fourth meet-
ing the group was ready to adopt a con-
stitution and elect oilicers.

Before this election the group was
asked to select a name for the club. On
a list of about thirty proposed names,
the most popular by far was “Golden
Age Club.” Members were not aware
that the majority of similar clubs in
other cities use this name.

Gradually club members began to as-
sume more of the responsibilities of
running their own organization. Com-
mittees were set up for program, call-
ing, membership, refreshments, and
publicity. Although all committees did
not perform exactly according to the
constitution, active participation on
committees has constantly improved.

During the first year the program
committee had the responsibility of
planning the program for each week’s
meeting and for special events. Now
the latter are handled by separate com-
mittees in order to draw more persons
into the active planning and carrying
out of club projects.

The calling committee phones mem-
bers not attending meetings regularly
in order to find out whether they are
ill. When possible, it visits sick mem-
bers and provides any possible assist-
ance. The club secretary sends greeting
cards to hospitalized members, flowers
for deceased members.

New members are introduced to the
group by the membership committee.
This committee also “talks up” the
Golden Age Club and encourages peo-
ple to become members.

The refreshment committee procures
and serves the luncheons. It is headed
by a chairman and a co-chairman who
see to it that these responsibilities are

 

divided among the members and every-
one has an opportunity to serve. 0n
special occasions, such as birthday par-
ties (celebrated once each month) and
golden-wedding anniversaries, mem-
bers often provide special refreshments
and decorate the serving tables appro~
priately.

IN GENERAL, the entire operation of
the club is now in the hands of its
members, the recreation director serv-
ing only as an advisor. The club is en-
couraged to solve its own problems with
as little help as possible.

A golden-age chorus was formed and
practiced after the close of the weekly
meetings. A local schoolteacher, the
daughter of one of the club members.
voluntarily served as its director. The
highlight for this group was singing at
a summer evening band concert.

Several picnics were conducted dur-
ing the summer months, visits made to
local industrial plants. places which
most of the members had never seen.
Guest speakers were invited to present
special-interest programs. The latter
activity has been worthwhile, although
the interest span of some members is
relatively short and others have. difli-
culty hearing.

While no dues are levied, the club
maintains a substantial treasury. Mem-
bers who can afford it donate a little to
the “sugar bowl” each week. This
money is deposited by the treasurer in
the club’s own checking account and is

Continued on Page-136

425

 

FAMILY
FUN

William Lederer

As A WORKER in

community
recreation, I re-
ceive two main
gripes from par-
ents: one, that our
program does not
completely fill the
needs of the youngsters and the other,
that we offer the kids so many activities
they cannot be kept at home in the eve-
nings or during weekends. It may seem
an anomaly but I give the same advice
to both groups: Develop your family
fun. This will round out the education
and recreation potential of the children
and at the same time provide a home
where it is pleasurable to remain.

 

A quite evident result of our twenti-
eth-century civilization has been the
breakdown of the family unit. Probably
everyone has at some time encountered
the I Remember Mama series that por—
trays a Scandinavian-American family

MR. LEDERER is superintendent of rec-
reation for the Greenburgh Recreation
Commission, White Plains, New Y orlc.

426

at the turn of the century. The series
has enjoyed phenomenal success as a
book, a Broadway play, a movie, and a
regular attraction on TV. Here is a fine
portrayal of a family unit. The entire
life wheels around the family hub.
Common interests, mutual respect and
understanding, the security and confi-
dence generated by this exchange of
confidence and the clichéd but ever-
important sense of belonging all stem
from this finely integrated family unit.
What has caused the breakdown of fam-
ily relations? The automobile and the
resultant disregard for distance; the
airplane and the shrinkage of the entire
world; the development of communica-
tion via radio; the printed word and
TV; the easy availability of entertain-
ment through movies and sporting
events; easier living through many re-
markable household labor-saving de-
vices and better architectural design are
a few contributing factors. There is an
obvious overlapping of all of these
factors.

An obvious omission is the high cost
of living and the difficulties in maintain-
ing and providing for a household. In
many cases both parents work in an ef-
fort to make things easier and better
for the family. As a result, in many
homes the children feel no more affec-
tion for the parents than they do for
a bank teller who doles out an allow-
ance, a roof, clothing, and food. In
turn, the parents groggily feel like a
piggy bank shaken until the last penny
has dropped from the coin slot. We
pamper and indulge our children in the
hope they will have a better life than
we did. Unhappily we only make it
easier for them, not better for them.

Too many people think of family fun
as a dutiful romp with the kids, a bois-
terous, nerve-wracking game session, or
a dull lowering to infantile pastime.
Nothing could be farther from the truth.
Consider finances. Mama’s Bank Ac-
count was the title of one of the Mama
series. The story revolved around a
family finance council. The family bud-
get was a family thing. Each family

‘member knew how expensive it was to

run a house and how much was left for
luxuries and amusements. Everyone
knew of the needs and desires of the
others and learned the necessity of give-
and-take. Here understanding was cre-

ated and the foundation laid for family
fun.

HAT EXACTLY is fun? Is it some-
thing to do? A topic for a
speech? A game? To me, fun is a
feeling deep down inside that, through
sheer exuberance and spontaneity, bub-
bles over. It is a relaxed feeling that
you can be yourself without self-con-
sciousness. It is a feeling of belonging,
whether to a social group, a family, a
country, or even a whole universe and
where else but in a place where there is
affection, mutual respect, and friend-
ship can this feeling be picked up?
Home should be that place.

Must family fun be expensive? This
is an absurd fallacy. Long before archi-
tects realized a cellar should be utilized
for purposes other than housing a fur-
nace, the Rice family had created its
own cellar recreation program. It
started as a rainy-day program with a
checkerboard and a dart game. Soon a
pair of boxing gloves was added. Then,
with the help of a neighbor, a Ping-pong
table was constructed, cleaning, plan-
ning and painting became a boys-club
activity! "As the kids grew up, the
gameroom grew with them. Lifting
weights, a phonograph, a battered pi-
ano all came along with little or no ex-
pense. The Rice children knew their
home was a place where other kids were
welcome. They took pride in their
home and their parents, and the house
was a reflection of their growth and
their personalities. The Rice parents
were smart enough to be handy when
needed but still not buttinskys or harsh
critics.

Behavior was never a great problem
and in most instances the neighborhood
kids settled things among themselves. I
am always reminded of Ted Rey’s car-
toon showing two boys fighting. The
next box shows them complaining at
home. Then the fathers meet in battle
and the final episode shows the kids
happily playing while the fathers are
frigidly separated by a Hatfield-McCoy

vendetta.

ALL FAMILIES do not have the space

for a cellar gameroom. The city
dweller is crowded into a three-room
apartment with a dearth of storage

Continued on Page 434

RECREATION

 

 

SCIENCE and

Earl Ubell

HENEVER I MEET with young people, they re-amaze

W me by their probing and questioning. With youth’s

curiosity, their minds dart in and out of great sci-

entific questions that would quail an Oppenheimer. Once

an eight-year-old at one of my lectures piped up: “What
makes a mosquito bite itch?”

Yet, young people often mix their intellectual insatiety
with a despairing lack of discipline. It is a rare youth who
reads a book with a pencil and paper at his side or who
conceives and carries a large project through alone. For
teachers, parents. and youth workers in our democracy, the
chief problem is how to marry these young, curious minds
to discipline without producing unthinking parrots.

In our day real work in science affords a tremendous op-
portunity to tap the enormous intellectual energies of our
youth and to prepare them for the rigors of adult life.
Equipment lies everywhere at hand or it can be built from
abundant industrial scrap. The tiniest hamlet has a surfeit

of books.

HOW CAN these resources be harnessed? Let’s face the

truth—the average youth worker, the average parent
and average teacher cannot guide bright youths into mean-
ingful scientific projects. However well-intentioned, these
leaders simply do not know enough about science. But a

MR. UBELL is science editor of the New York Herald T rib-

une. This material is digested with permission from The
American Journal of Catholic Youth Work, F all 1960.

OCTOBER 1961

 
  

IIIIIIII
Ill-’7‘:

‘II’ 1-.

'1’ 4--

A...
‘q-l-
(I.

  
  

 
 
 

  
     

      

RECREATION

DIGEST

YOUTH

community’s professionals know: the doctors, pharmacists,
engineers and research scientists. What can they do for
youth? They would be willing to take one or two boys and
girls under their wings for an extra-school science research
project or course of study. Unfortunately for those who
like big programs, science except in big laboratoriesl is
done by ones and twos. A Boy Scout troop is about ten
times too large for meaningful work.

WHAT CAN the youth worker do? He can be the catalyst

to bring the young people together with the profes-
sional. Often the latter feels vaguely he wants to help, but
he doesn’t know how or he thinks that interminable meet-
ings will take too much time. But give him one or two
young people, and he will do a masterful job. One leading
chemist I know takes three of his neighborhood boys and
girls to his lab on Saturday mornings to do advanced chem-
istry. “I’m having the time of my life,” he says.

As a first step then, the youth worker should canvass his
community to determine what talent is available. Next. the
youth worker can do the practical things that give such
projects long-term continuity: finding a place for the boys
and girls to work—an unused corner of a factory. a club-
house or a basement; providing incidental funds for equip-
ment; arranging for special lectures by leading scientists.

Finally, the youth worker should leave the young alone
in their work. He shouldn't look for such tangible results
as a display for a science fair. Too often such exhibits
merely retell a chapter from a science book. If the boys
and girls have achieved anything. the thrill itself will be
(mough. 'l‘hey won‘t need ribbons and medals. 

N127

RECRENHON

' DIGEST

 

LEISURE SPENDING

Consumers spend a twelfth of their total income on recreation activities

sure activities than ever before. Spending connected
with leisure activity has grown steadily. The com-
position of the leisure market has shown striking change as

a. MERICANS ARE DEVOTING more time and money to lei-

Americans plan their time in an increasingly purposeful
way. Behind the rise in leisure markets has been the sub-
stantial increase in the amounts of time and income avail-
able to be spent at the discretion of the individual consumer.
As for time:

0 Employees will take a total of 50,000,000 vacation weeks
over the summer months, and another 32,000,000 weeks
during the rest of the year in addition to some 467,000,000
holidays.

0 Even during ordinary weeks, one-quarter of the average
person’s time is open to choice of activity.

0 Families have more free time together because conven-
iences of modern living have shortened the time needed for
household chores.

To go with this discretionary time, Americans have more
discretionary income. The total has risen nearly sixty per-
cent in the past decade. In 1960, people received $123,-
000,000,000 over and above the income required for essen-
tial food, clothing, shelter, medical care, and fixed com-
mitments. Thus, nearly one-third of all after-tax consumer
income—*an average of $682 per person—~was available for
the consumer to spend as he wished.

Consumers are spending one-third of this discretionary
income—wor twelve percent of their total income—on leisure

activities. So the market for goods and services connected
with recreation has doubled in the past ten years.

The largest single item in the leisure budget is travel.
This year some $12,000,000,000, or three cents out of every
consumer dollar, will go for trips in the U.S. About $3,-
500,000,000 of this is for transportation. The rest is for
lodging, vacation homes, meals, and incidental expenses.
(Estimates which include such things as vacation clothing,
sports equipment and entertainment expenses run to over
$20,000,000,000.)

Spending on travel within the U.S. is twice what it was
a decade ago. This year, domestic travel seems set. to ac-
celerate its growth rate, with bookings at vacation spots re-
ported to be up ten to fifteen percent over 1960. Another
$2,500,000,000 goes for trips abroad.

The figures also show that some marked changes are un-
derway in the pattern of recreation in the U.S. Forms of
recreation involving active participation and the develop-
ment of knowledge or skill are more popular. People Spend
relatively less time as spectators.

Movie admissions are still below their early postwar level;
admissions to spectator sports have increased only one-
fourth as rapidly as total recreation outlays. Television
sales in 1960 were twenty-two percent below the 1955 peak.

In striking contrast, interest in cultural activities is
booming all across the country:

0 Spending for books has risen more than any other type
of recreation expenditure. It is up two-thirds from 1955,

 

ALMOST ALL EMPLOYERS GRANT VACATIONS
AND HOLIDAYS . . .

AND THE MAXIMUM AMOUNT OF TIME-OFF MEANWHILE DISCRETIONARY INCOME IS
IS INCREASING...

UP, SO MORE CAN BE SPENT

We“ ran RECREATION. omens
1 OO _ I 2 5
9'0 
’ . ‘ 
9° to: so:
hos DO'
80 99°. 
%H “w
70 m. n-
. O ’.9
~ 5’6 0 0.
° '3‘ ’0"
w W
5° so: to:
40 3' ’3"
’9 . gr
zz‘ :ozo' -
t c ' , 1
30 9.1 >’O:- " (.49: .
so.” ’0 ' .v.....‘. Q 1 \
20 00 9... n'ooooo‘o’.
 . .  A A A ‘.4.
1 as: :o::: 
o
v o

o
to

'

 

0 90000.
Recreation Ex u enditures
“90.999090

. ’4 90‘-
. .. - r . lob-ma .999;
hourly salaried hourly salaried ‘ ‘ ’ ‘ ' "' ' " ‘ ‘“ ‘
employees employees employees employees
Vacations Holidays

 

% of Companies Granting Paid Maximum Weeks Vacation Granted by Companies

lational Industrial Conference Board, Fortune Magazlne

428 RECREATION

 a! so

 
 

Books, 65%
Foreign travel, 58%

Increase in Expenditures for:

 
  
   
   
  

Increase in Expenditures for:
Sports Participation. 5

Theater, Opera. 49% Durable Sports, Em

ment, Toys. 1
Flowers, Plants, 3

Honourable Sport:
Equipment. Toys, 3

Radio, TV. Records, 29%

Magazines. Papers.

 

0
Movies'14% 255. Spectator Sports,i
1950
and has risen one and a half times over the whole postwar The move to the suburbs has also encouraged interest in
period to a total of $1,500,000,000. What’s more, the ac- sports.
celerating growth of book sales affected all kinds of books: In fact, the most clearly defined pattern in recreation
hardbound and paperback, juveniles, fiction, reference spending is according to residence and occupation. Farmers
works, and serious nonfiction on many subjects. devote the largest share of their recreation budget to TV.
0 Ticket sales for the theater and opera rose fifty percent City people spend half again more than average on theater

over the past five years; one hundred fifteen percent since and other admissions. Suburbanites spend twice the aver-
1946. Theater receipts in 1960 were more than one-third age on sports equipment.
above admissions to all spectator sports. Americans are broadening and deepening their interests.
0 The U.S. has well over half the world’s professional sym- For them, leisure is not idleness. Rather, increasing atten-
phony orchestras, and the number of amateur musicians tion is paid to Benjamin Franklin’s adage: “Do not squan-
has reached 32,000,000,000—-—-up forty percent in ten years. der time, for that is the stuff life is made of.” 
In addition, the number interested in art——-—as measured by
museum attendance—is over 40,000,000. Visitors to the
Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City on a single
Sunday would twice fill the Madison Square Garden sports Courtesy True. The Man's Magazine
arena.

Likewise, active participation in sports has risen to all-

time records:
0 Boating attracts 40,000,000 Americans. The 8,000,000
boats now in use is double the 1950 number. F i
0 Camping is also gaining adherents. About'25,000,000“"r ":7
overnight visits, and ten times as many day visits, were
made to national and state parks last year. Some went to
fish or hunt (26,000,000 and 18,000,000 licenses respec-
tively) , but many just enjoyed the outdoors. 
0 Among other sports, bowling has the most participants ‘
(22,000,000) and is gaining most rapidly. Next come base- 1...
ball (16,000,000 players), basketball (11,000,000), tennis _-f:
(16,500,000), golf (5,500,000), and another fast-growing «.t
sport, archery (5,000,000). r \\
What has sparked this widespread interest in active rec-T
reation? Apparently the pattern of leisure has shifted in
response to other trends in the U.S. Employment has de-
creased on the farm, and, to some extent, in the factory,
while the more sedentary professional, office, and service
jobs have increased. Thus, more people have both the en-

ergy and the need for physical exercise during leisure hours.
M

Digested with permission from Business in Brief #39, pub- , . I ‘ ’ d“ ' "
lished by The Chase Manhattan Bank, New York City. "Dont bother with rt. Yheyrc not c r e.

 
 
       

OCTOBER 1961

     

 NEWS

For further information regarding any of the products
discussed below, simply circle its corresponding key num-
ber on coupon on facing color page and mail to us.

0 A new eight-blade Spartan Fairway Mower is specially
designed to meet the golfer’s demand for low-cut smooth
turf on the fairways. Over the past twenty years, normal
heights of cut on fairways have gone from 1% or 11/;
inches to virtually half those heights; and with the closer
trim have come important changes in fairway grass that
make an eight-blade reel necessary. The new mower pro-
vides a smooth out down to a half inch or less height of cut.

Equipped with sixteen-inch steel wheels, the reel -is cor-
rectly pitched to provide smooth, clean cutting with a mini-
mum of draft. Smaller fourteen-inch wheels are available
for an even greater frequency of clip to give carpet smooth-
ness to thick, vigorous growth. The eight hardened alloy
steel blades are riveted on reinforced malleable spiders for
added strength, shock absorption, and ruggedness.
Equipped with the sixteen-inch wheels, the Spartan gang
mower gives a clip of 0.825 inches, or 0.727 inches with the
fourteen-inch wheels. Special equipment includes sixteen-
inch pneumatic tires and a three-segment rubber roller. The
new Spartan Fairway will fit the following frames: Universal

Non-Convertible; Universal 3, 5 & 7 gang; Master 3, 5 81 7

gang; Roughmaster, and Ford Ferguson and the Hydraulic.

Parkmaster. The manufacturer also produces twelve major
institutional power mowers especially designed for golf
courses, schools and colleges, parks, playgrounds, highway,
cemeteries and airports. For further information, circle

# 100.

0 Fun a la Francaise with old French hoop
game newly available for any locale, any age.
Game set includes four nineteen-inch hard-
wood sticks and two eight-inch-diameter hard-
wood rings, weighs two pounds. During play,
the two participants face each other about
twenty feet apart, each with two sticks. One
serves hoop from crossed sticks by quickly
pulling them apart. Receiver catches the
hoop. Sounds simple, but takes more practice than you
think. For catalog of this and other interesting games, circle

# 101.

 

0 Your youth centers can be carousel bright, your senior
citizen facilities mellow and friendly as old wood. Give
them a face lifting with wall panels, coated with Melamine
plastic, in merry-go-round colors. Wood-grain panels have
warmth of rich wood but won’t warp, fade, or darken. Never
need repainting, refinishing, or wax. For further informa-

tion, circle # 102.

0 New up-and-over game provides rhythmic fun. The J ump-
ing Jack is an unbreakeable plastic, self-propelled windup
toy. It adjusts to fifteen inches in height. The swinging
arms have a four-foot spread and rotate at full speed for
exactly four minutes. The flags on the arms can be manipu-

430

lated to adjust to the speed required. As many as four per-
sons can play or the game can be played solo. For further

information, circle # 103.

0 Walls become three dimensional with plastic wall cover-
ings that resemble brick, fieldstone, bamboo, straw, or pecky
cypress. Panels measure 18”-by-241/2”. Waterproof and
washable, they come with a protective paper backing which
peels away to expose adhesive back. Quick and easy to re-
decorate peeling walls, sad spots, and odd corners. For
more information, circle # 104.

0 Portable putting greens make golf adaptable to indoor
conditions and limited space. A good idea for hospitals,
senior ‘citizen centers, and situations where climatic and
other conditions prevent trips to faroff fairways. Con-

 

structed of plastic-coated lumber with plastic fiber carpet
made to resemble grass, the green comes prefabricated and
is shipped in sections. Available in two types, one rectangu-
lar and one Cloverleaf, models come with cups, hole flags,
putters, balls, decorative fencing, plastic decorative flowers
and plants, trellises, etcetera. For further information, cir-

cle # 105.

0 A new twisting belt was especially designed to teach
twisting movements on various gymnastics apparatus, in-
cluding the trampoline, tumbling mat, rings, parallel and
horizontal bars. Can be used by divers learning twisting
dives and by dancers for learning pirouettes. For further
information, circle # 106.

o A bat boy who never talks back. Portable equipment car-
rier keeps your bats and team equipment clean and in work-
able order, holds bats and balls, helmets, catcher’s equip-
ment. Unit is compact, strong welded-steel construction,
rustproof. Comes in three sizes. For further information,

circle # 107.

o Camper’s food cooler has shelf storage for meat and eggs,
removable ice tray, faucet for ice water. Handles for easy
carrying also permit cooler to be strapped in place. Lining

- is odor-, rust-, and leakproof, stain resistant and seamless;

has rounded corners for easy cleaning. Exterior is alumi-
num waffle grid for light weight and maximum strength.
Station Wagon Cooler has fourteen gallon capacity. For
further information, circle # 108.

RECREATION

 

DEX 0F ADVERTISERS

   
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
    
   
 
  
    
 
 

Page

merican Playground Device -_.__......_____. 393
.r

' American Trampoline ...-....-... Inside Back Cover

‘eIso; Manufacturing Company _____ ____ 391

assified‘Adveriising .._. _______ _____. 433

Cosom Corporation ----._------_..._--__.._____-- 395

oi_-d Halal Products ..---___-_...1---.._.-...._. 391

and=ieaver and Craftsman ........._.......... 435

H 8. R Manufacturing __..--..__---____.__..____. 391

Hillerich and Bradst .............. -.__.___ 396

Holiday Handicrafts --__--__..__n__-_.__.____ 437

arson Crafts __ ___________________ _.__.. 394

" cGregor Company _-.__..._._- Inside Front Cover

MiraEI-e EquipmenI ................ -...... 393

' - r33 Company _. _________________ -_.__._ 416
111-31iqu studios  ____________________ -_____ 416
5% Industries _-_--_.__..___..._____1_-_. 407
aylor Bros. --__.______---_-___.._.__._.__.-......_. 389
LP. Tviardzik .__.._.__. _________________ 1.... 435

n'essee‘Valley Authority -_. ________ -___. 420
Vdgel-Peierson .__._..__ ___________ _-.... 402

of the

- National
; Recreation Association

FT
_ Get the Facts on . . .

F - I\_IRA Life Insurance Plan
. . Circle#l I20n coupontoiherigbt

r 0 NRA Publications
' Circle #| Mon coupon to the right

NRA Personnel Services

Circle  1'1 6 on coupon to the right
. - ' NRA Planning Services
Circle #1 [8 on coupon to the right

 
 
 
  
 
  
    
   
  

  

I

     

‘ OBER 1961

@

FREE AIDS

TRADE MART

 

Here are resources—catalogs, brochures, plats, booklets, services
available, samples, and so on—to help the recreation leader. Circle
the key number following any item about which you want more in-
formation. Cut out the coupon, insert in envelope, and mail.

ARTS AND CRAFTS

HALLOWEEN 15 THE TIME for using Magic
Markers felt-nib applicators. Make a Witcha-
peau, trick-or-treat bag, goblins, or a Sally
from Salem as shown in booklet. Marker ink
dries quickly, is available in eight colors. A
Christmas craft booklet is also available with
details for angels, Santas, reindeers, greeting
cards. For your copies of each, circle #121.

TOOLS or THE TRADE for specialized ceramic
work. Instruments to make flowers, lacy de-
signs, etcetera. Catalog includes instructions
on how to make roses, calla lilies, forget-me-
nots, and violets. For copy, circle #122.

A THIRD DIMENSION for glaze decoration. Bro-
cade glazes do not level or flow but stay put.
Can be applied in drop or bead form and in
other raised shapes and they will stay that
way. Fire to a smooth glossy surface. They
can be applied by dipping a bent Wire or a
brush handle into the glaze and touching to
the piece. Come in basic colors, but can be
mixed with each other to make a complete
palette. For catalog on this and other ceramic
supplies, circle #123.

MAKE YOUR GARDEN CROW with plastic flowers
and lovely greenery. Molds of carnation, pop-
pies, roses, other flowers and plants available.
Fill with plastic and bake. For information
on these products, circle #124.

ONCE THEY KNOW THEIR ABC’s the younger
set can turn their hand to easy nature crafts
including feeders and nesting shelter. Nature
kits are expertly designed, come complete
with precision-cut ponderoso pine parts, nails,
and ABC picture instructions. For catalog in-
cluding these and other helpful handicrafts,

circle #125.
PLEASE NOTE

AUDIO VISUAl

TIPS ON TALL TALES. Storytelling by Sara
Innis Fenwick, professor of library science at
the University of Chicago, is reprinted from
the American Educator Encyclopedia. For
copy, circle #126.

HOW CAN YOUR COMMUNITY pLAN for its
aged? Film strip entitled All the Years de-
picts one community-sponsored senior-citizen
center and how it builds a pattern of produc-
tive and creative living among its golden-
agers. Runs fifteen minutes, black and White.
For literature, circle #127.

WE WANT TO SEE THE WORLD . . . the real
world, we want to cook outside and watch
birds. Girl Scout film includes rooftop camp-
ing in the city, ice skating parties, cookouts.

Nature clubs and youth groups in genenl
will get a lot of tips. For information, circle

#128.

COLOR SLIDES of national parks, Western and
Hawaiian scenes. Available singly or by the
dozen. For interesting listing, circle #129.

MAKE YOUR SPORTS BULLETIN BOARD a real
magnet for news-hungry team members and
interested paSSersby. For booklet describing
bulletin board displays and mobiles, circle

#130.

GAMES AND HOBBIES

WITH A BROCUE. Film shows songs and games
sung and played by Edinburgh children
against a background of streets in that city.
The Singing Street runs eighteen minutes.
For further information, circle #131.

EXPIRATION DATE

RECREATION Magazine. Dept. R861. 8 W. 81h St.. New York 11

This coupon expires December 1. 1961
Please send me more information on circled products.

____________________________—————

101
124
141

10.
123
140

105
122
13!

104
121

103
120
37 138

102
119

114
133
150

115
132
I45

114
131
140

113
130
147

112
123
14.

111
122
145

110
127
144

109
128
143

108
125
142

Title

W

W

Zone State

City

W
R861

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
: 134 135 135 l
|
I
|
|
I
I
I
I
I

431

TO HELP YOU with your shutterbugging, cata-
log lists photography covering subjects from
boat photography and nature shots to lighting
and developing your hlm. Descriptions, photo-
graphs of books, prices. For copy, circle

#132.

SKELLY, a variation of board billiards, is ideal
for camps, playgrounds, senior-citizen centers.
Played with two to four players, game weighs
thirteen pounds, is colorftu decorated, has
reinforced construction, and a hardboard play-
ing area, three feet by three feet. For infor-
mation, circle #133.

RING-A-TAC-TOE, an active version of that old
favorite, tic-tac-toe, appeals to pony-tailers
and senior citizens. Can be adapted to any
setting, from hospital recreation room to play-
ground game hour, can be used standing on
table or floor, hung on wall. Board measures
19"-by-25”. Set contains eighteen rubber
rings, nine of each color. For leaflet, circle

#134.

THE BELLS ARE RINGING—bell choirs are be-
coming widespread among amateur musician
groups. Company oerrs tuned handbells
which are cast and tuned with the same hne
equipment and by the same skilled craftsmen
who tune carillon bells. For interesting leaflet

on the history, workmanship, range and musi-
cal possibilities of handbells, circle #137.

THE PRETTIEST FLOAT in the passing parade.
Learn how to make your own floats for pa-
rades by decorating automobiles, trucks, and
tractors. Pick up many good ideas from this
book. For information on this, cheerleader
tips, and admission tickets, among others,

circle #138.

FREE-WHEELING FUN with gym scooters. Small
sit-on-it-and-go-unit is constructed of well-
hnished plywood mounted on four special
rubber ball-bearing wheels. Will not mark
up gym floors. Can be used and adapted for
many activitiesw—tag, soccer, dodgeball, re-
lays. For further information, circle #139.

N0 TURF DAMAGE with lighter horseshoes.
Horseshoe pitching can now take place on
lawn without destroying turf, is easily set up
at picnic areas, beaches, resorts, playgrounds.
Pony-sized shoes available for tots. For fur-
ther information, circle #140.

SCIENCE AND NATURE

YOU DON’T HAVE TO GO VERY FAR off the beaten
track (in this case a concrete sidewalk) to
learn about rocks. They’re right underfoot,
in forms from agate to fossilized lava to rubies
—-all rocks. For charming booklet, circle

#141.

BRILLIANT COLORS AND DRIFTING PLUMACE
hash through hlm on Birds of a Florida
Marsh, filmed in the Lake Okeechobee region.
Runs 141/2 minutes. For information, on this
and other hlms available on the Florida scene,

circle #144.

HEY, JACK, for better beanstalks get film Bet-
ter Gardens for Better Living. Color, musical
background, runs twenty minutes. Green
thumbs will turn up for this one. For your
garden clubs and nature programs. Circle

#145.

ALL OVER THE WORLD—in the backyard, in the
zoo, meadow, country pond, garden, the won-
ders of nature can be seen. Church-slanted
nature film series is done in color. Each film
runs ten minutes. For further information,

circle #146.

SERMONS FROM SCIENCE FILMS for church pro-
grams. Color hlmstrips, 35MM cover every-
thing from nature to time. For leaflet on these
and other church-oriented hlms, circle #147.

WINTER’S ON THE WING. Six color filmstrips
tell how a particular group of living things—
birds, animals, insects, plants, seeds, people——
prepare for winter. Encourages direct obser-
vation and supplements information obtained
on nature held trips. For further information,

circle #148.

WILDFIRES DESTROY reproduction and standing
timber. New film Fire on the Land places
special emphasis on the need for and essential
steps of hre prevention in connection with
smoking, camphres, and children playing with
fire. Runs twenty-seven minutes. For further
information, circle #149.

THE CYCLE AND SYMMETRY OF NATURE, mag-
nihcently integrated and filmed, provide the
theme for an outstanding nature film. From
dawn on a Swedish farm, the action moves
along to show interdependence of living
things. Good musical background. For in-
formation on this and other films from major
documentary film producer, circle #150.

W11. in. a. Mobile mm
SELECTED PAPERS

presented at the

43rd National Recreation Congress
$3.50 (no discount)

Agencies Can Order Now—Pay Later
( Individuals should send check or money order)

 

[I Send

copies of ’61 Selected Papers

|:| Check or money order enclosed

I] Bill agency

(Be sure to fill in name and address on reverse side.)
No orders accepted after November I

432

LOW-COST AIDS

I

Order these resources and references di- 1

rectly from source given (enclose remittance).

0

AN ANTHOLOGY 0F ARTICLES on Americans
abroad, People to People in Action, is re-
printed from Reader’s Digest. III the intro-
duction, President Kennedy stresses the im-
portance of such non-governmental action—

“the power of people, acting as individuals, '

to respond imaginatively to the world’s need
for peace.” Available for $.25 from Reader’s
Digest Services, Pleasantville, New York.
0

A RESOURCE FOR YOUTH LEADERS, Youth and
the World, shows how to promote international
brotherhood through correspondence, hob-
bies, play and music, cuisine, religion, and
holidays. National organizations promoting
brotherhood are detailed and a full range of
programs listed for school, home, and abroad.
Available for $1.00 from the Camp Fire Girls

Supply Division, 450 Avenue of the Americas,
New York.

0
A 16 MM CATALOG of Films for Human Rela-
tions contains a selected, annotated listing
of more than two hundred films. A useful
reference and program source, the catalog is
available from the American Jewish Commit-
tee, 165 East 56th Street, New York 22, for
$.50 per copy.
0

TO HELP OTHER COUNTRIES develop recreation
for the ill and handicapped, a thirty-two page
booklet, 0n the Mend—~11 Guide to Recrea-
tion in Hospitals, was designed primarily for
areas where recreation for the ill and handi-
capped has not developed to the extent it has
in the US. and in certain European countries.
The booklet is extremely lively in format and
content, has clever illustrations.

International Recreation Association, 345

East 46th Street, New York City 17.

0
AN INSTRUCTION KIT of rules, procedures, and
scoring methods for baton twirling contests
and tOurnaments has been prepared by and
is available for $1.00 from M. Peter Villere,
Amateur Athletic Union of the United States,
National Chairman of the Baton Twirling
Committee, 3027 Paris Avenue, New Orleans
19, Louisiana.

0
THE PROCEEDINGS of the Second National
Health and Physical Education Institute at
the Jewish Community Center, New Haven,
Connecticut, New Dimensions in Health and
Physical Education Programming in the Jew-
ish Community Center, contains articles on
group-exercise programs, physical education
for senior citizens, desirable athletic compe-
tition for children. Administration and the
relationship of these programs to the total
program of Jewish community centers is also
covered. Available from the National Jewish
Welfare Board, 145 East 32nd Street, New
York 16, for $1.00.

0
FOCUS FOR THE ROVING EYE. Striking 62-page
booklet. Better Bulletin Board Displays, is
full of ideas, know-how-and-do-it, illustrations
in color. Eleventh in “Bridges for Ideas” se-
ries available from the Visual Instruction Bu-
reau, Division of Extension, University of

Texas, Austin 12. $1.00.

RECREATION

 

Available _
for $1.00 (plus $.10 mailing cost) from the -

PEOPLE in

NEWLY APPOINT-
ED acting di-
rector of the Wash-
ington State Parks
and Recreation
Commission is Ed-
ward V. Putnam, of
Yakima, who as—
sumed his position on August 1. He re-
places John R. Vanderzicht, who re-
signed this summer after serving twelve
years as director. Mr. Putnam comes
to state parks from the superintendency
of the Yakima MetrOpolitan Park Dis-
trict, a position he has held since J anu-
ary, 1945. As the first full-time person
‘ employed by the district, he reports that
he started the department with a “screw-
driver and a few nuts and bolts.” The
department is now recognized by pro-
fessional park and recreation adminis-
trators as one of the best in the State
of Washington.

At the time the Yakima department
was formed, there were no developed
parks in the city. It was necessary to
acquire sites, design, and develop parks
and playgrounds, irrigation systems,
and do landscaping. In 1956, the city,
by a good margin, approved a $487,000
bond issue for park improvements, its
success attributed to a well~planned
campaign, spearheaded by Mr. Putnam,
and aided by local civic groups and
agencies.

 

During his tenure at Yakima, the
Metropolitan Park District and the Ya-
kima Public Schools negotiated a co-
operative agreement for joint use of
school and park facilities. At present,
the extensive summer program is staffed
by approximately eighty persons, utiliz-
ing all facilities available.

As a professional park and recrea-
tion administrator, Mr. Putnam feels
that both short and long-range planning
are important to any park system. In
taking the Washington State position,

he commented, “In 1956, Charles De-
Turk* did an excellent professional job

* Charles DeTurk was park planner for the
Washington State Park system for 1950-1959,
when he resigned to become chief of the Divi-
sion of Beaches and Parks for the State of Cal-
ifornia. During his service in Washington he
developed a twenty-year plan, projecting de-
velopment needs to 1975, which was adopted
by the State Park Commission in 1956.

OCTOBER 1961

the NEWS

of blueprinting the direction which
Washington state parks should take. In
the five-year period since adoption,
amazing progress has been made. This
indicates the importance of formulating
a direction, and following through with
a professional staff. It is my hope that
this progress toward the 1975 goal can
be continued, even accelerated, with in-
creased emphasis on use of professional
development standards. We must also
be alert to further extension of the plan,
both in the matter of acquisition of ad-
ditional needed areas while still avail-
able, and in the continued development
and expansion of parks already under
commission administration.”

Mr. Putnam is a past-president of the
Washington State Recreation Society.
He served as a member of the Pacific
Northwest District Advisory Committee
of the National Recreation Association
from 1955-1958. He has also been a
member of NRA’s Advisory Commit-
tees on Recreation Administration and
on Areas and Facilities. He is a mem-
ber of the American Institute of Park
Executives, past-president of the Ya-
kima Optimists, and a member of BPOE
No. 318, Yakima. He was chairman of

the Yakima Committee on Aging and

aided in the Washington State Univer-
sity survey on aging, just completed.
He was also a member of the State Com-
mittee on Recreation for the 1960 Presi-
dent’s White House Conference on Chil-
dren and Youth—RUTH PIKE, Super-
visor of Public Information, State Parks

and Recreation Commission, Olympia,
Washington.

Joseph Brown, associate professor of
sculpture in Princeton University’s
School of Architecture and one-time
professional boxer, recently visited Ja-
pan, Taiwan, Indonesia, Thailand, and
Burma, where he delivered art lectures
and conducted boxing clinics. ln nu-
merous spontaneous conversations, Pro-
fessor Brown said, he made use of
sculptures and pugilistic gestures, as
well as of that less novel communica-
tions device, the interpreter.

Samuel J. Massey, a staff member of
Trinity Church-on-the-Creen in New
Haven, Connecticut, has retired after
thirty-five years of directing youth ac-
tivities for the church. He also served
as chairman of the city’s recreation sur-
vey, an exhaustive study of leisure-time
interests and habits, and on the Mayor’s
Commission on Juvenile Delinquency.

 

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING

RATES: Words in regular type $.15 each
Words in boldface type $.25 each
Minimum ad accepted  $3.00

DEADLINES: Copy must be received by
the fifth of the month preceding date of
the issue in which ad is desired.

COPY: Type—or clearly print—your message and the address to which you wish
replies sent. Underline any words you want to appear in boldface type.

Send copy with remittance to:

RECREATION Classified Advertising, 8 West Eighth Strcet, New York 11, New York.

 

HELP WANTED

Therapists for California
State Hospitals. Opportu-
nity to plan and conduct
individual patient recrea-
tion as well as special
group activities; modern
equipment and facilities
available. Positions open to
college graduates with ma-
jor in recreation or recrea-
tion therapy, which includ-
ed supervised field work.
No experience required.
Starting salary $436.00 per
month; promotional oppor-
tunities; liberal employ-
ee benefits. Write State
Personnel Board, 801 Capi-
tol Avenue, Sacramento,
California.

Recent Graduates in
Recreation or Recrea-
tion Therapy. Permanent
position available in small
private psychiatric hospi-
tal. Varied program for in-
dividual and group work.
Modern facilities and Iih-
eral employee benefits. No
experience required. Salary
dependent upon qualifica-
tions. Write Mrs. Bunney,

Chestnut Lodge, Rockville,
Maryland.

Position Open: Executive
Director of Servicemen's
Center, an agency of Com-
munity Chest. Qualifica-
tion: degree in recreation
or related fields with expe-

rience in military recrea-
tion or similar situalion.
Prefer mature woman with
ability to work with volun-
teer organizations. Apply
to Wallace A. Moritz, Pres-
ident, Board of Directors,
Box 1468. Telephone 7887.

San Angelo, Texas.
POSITION WANTED

Recreation: Director in
western Oregon or Wash-
ington. Six years adminis-
trative experience. BA in
Recreation, MS in Physical
Education. Age 30, with
family. Keith B. Roys, Sr...
Director of Recreation. City
of Coronado, P.O. Box 42,

Coronado, California.

The publisher assumes no responsibility for services or item advertised here.

433

Recipes for Family Fun
Continued from Page 426

 

space. However, a card table in the liv-
ing room can be the start of a quiet
game program. The kitchen might be
the center of the arts-and-crafts proj-
ects. A parent must realize, and this is
especially true of those in cramped
quarters, that he must decide between
highly fragile bric-a-brac and nonus-
able furniture and a happy child'that
is comfortable at home. This does not
mean that we need orange-crate furnish-
ings or that a home must be abused. On
the contrary, for happy homelife every-
one must have a share in the responsi-
bility of maintaining and preserving the
household. Briefly, the home should be
functional and liveable: _It should be a
home, not a house, nor a:showplace.
Getting back to the finance council,
is there any reason why ‘ the council
should not decide what color to paint
the kitchen, where to picnic next week,
how to spend the coming vacation, the
curfew hour, or what to serve at the
group-planned party? This does not
necessarily mean a loss of parental au-
thority or the prerogatives of age. The
wise parent will still be able to rule the
roost and yet have the children feel they

are responsible for their share of family ,

planning and activity. Best yet, indi-
vidual rights and individual privacy be-
come more definitely established and
respected than a terse, “Johnny, you’ll
have to stay out of the house this after-
noon as I am having my mah jong
club.”

Family fun must not necessarily be a
twenty-four hour affair, for individual
privacy and endeavor are part of family
fun. A commuting father in my town
told me that the train trip was a god-
send for he has a chance to read his
papers and catch up on extra office
chores; upon arriving home he is ready
to play a bit with his two boys before
dinner is served. This serves as a relief
for mother and leaves her unhampered
in the kitchen. Dad relaxes and forgets
business, the boys get to know both par-

ents, and everyone arrives at the dinner -

table relaxed and friendly.

Here, too, we miss a golden oppor-
tunity. The average meal is over and
done with in less than half an hour,
with perhaps two telephone conversa-

434

tions sandwiched in the time. I know
of one family that keeps the receiver
off the hook during the dinner hour.
Friends know better than to call at such
an hoyrhzand in the two years they have
followed this practice they have suf-
fered not a single financial or social
loss. 

m

At the table, daily experiences._can
be shared, conversation led into inter-
esting channels. Magic tricks and sim-
ple stunts might be shown. In just such
a situation one family was introduced
to charades and anagrams by one of the
children. Fun stunts are picked up at
school, at parties, at the playgrounds,
or even at the corner drugstore.

OF ALL OUR modern inventions, TV

is the only one that has kept the
family at home. However, the room
has been blackened and, the spoken

word prohibited. Our experience in our ,

teen center and gamerooms has been
that except for very Special events, the
TV offers littlecompetition to good ac-
tivities. This is especially true after the
novelty has worn off. Of course, TV
can only give vicarious experience.
Like so much of our recreation, it is
too passive. Our spectatoritis has given
birth to overpaid movie stars, high-sal-
aried athletes, mammoth coliseums, and
has helped sponsor subsidation of foot-
ball players, and basketball scandals.

Our school physical-education cur-
riculums have succumbed to pressure
and present a program dedicated to
championship varsity teams. Only the
major sports are stressed and when the
age of active competition has passed
there is little to do other than become
a spectator.

Therefore, youth, and especially the
adolescent period, 'should be dedicated
to a multitude of activities rather than
specialization in a few with little or no
carryover value. Studies have shown
that hobby activity in adult years in-
variably stems from interest or work
enjoyably participated in during the
formative years.

GETTING BACK to your family fun

program: you will find starting is
the hardest part. Single activities snow-
ball into avalanches and Open unreal-
ized vistas in the hobby world. The fun
need not necessarily be planned; some-

times it just happens. One young father
told me that on rare occasions when he
gets home from work early, his wife
puts whatever is planned for dinneri
into a basket and they drive t9 some
nearby wooded area to cook it picnic:
style. One night, after o'fie of these 
expected cookouts, mothers. got out the
‘fingerpaints and started dabbling.
There was some teasing from Dad and~
the children but before long everyone
was trying. When the paintings were
finished, they had an art exhibit. Par-
ents learn that kid stuff is fun, that they
can learn with their children and dis-
cover brand new ways to enoy life with
their families, that playing with chil-
dren helps the children to see parents
as real people, that pe0ple of all'ages

can play together.

FAMILY FUN can develop sociological

experiences. Another mother told
of the time she and her sister waited
until two in the morning until mother
and dad came home from a party. They
were hard put to explain why the chil-
dren should come home at midnight.
The sisters learned that parents are peo-
ple too and willing to talk things over.
Sharing pleasures and play helps to
promote good relations and often elim-
Feelings are
mighty contagious, especially in fam-
ilies. When there’s play, there’s laugh-
ter; and laughter is something you can’t
give away for it always comes back to
you. The possibilities of family fun are
infinite. There is no limit to what a
family can accomplish if it is earnest
and sincere in its desires. Money is the
cheapest thing you can spend on your
family.

Family fun seems nostalgic these
days because in this modern age we’ve
gone a long way from the home type of
fun and play we used to know. It is
more important for parents to realize
that family fun is ust as vital today as
it ever was. It is very essential if we are
to make growing up a real adventure.
We must always bear in mind that the
basic social unit is the family and thepj“
home; if this breaks down, children lose
their most important source of security.
There are very few problem children
when the family functions as a happy
and contented group. Families that play
together, stay together. #

inates family friction.

\1
RECREATION

 
  

THE QUESTIONS asked by Bob Boyd
on roller skating in gymnasiums
last February in this column have pro-
duced some comments worth sharing.

BOB DELIUS, recreation supervisor,
Tennessee Eastman Recreation Club in
Kingsport wrote to Mr. Boyd as fol-
lows:

“We, too, were confronted with this
problem about four years ago. As a
‘ trial, we worked with the Chicago Sev-
enty-Eight P wheel, and our first ex-
perience was very discouraging, as our

floor was scarred from our first skating .

session. However, with a minimum of
alterations to the skate, we tried it out
on one Of our roughest teenage skaters
and came up with a solution to our par-
ticular problem. We found that most Of
the damage occurred from the front Of
the skate dig-
ging into the
floor. We cut
a piece of poly-
ethylene and
fitted it to their
skates directly
under the front
toe piece and
by using the
heel pad on the rear, they were unable
to scar the floor regardless of the skat-
ers’ actions.

 

“For several years now, we have been
having three-hour skating parties week-
ly. The attendance is very good in the
school year months; however, we dis-
continue this activity during the sum-
mer. All Of our skates are of the clamp-
On type. We do not furnish shoe skates.
However, if any of the participants care
to, they can bring their own shoe skates
providing they are equipped with the
Chicago Seventy-Eight P wheel.”

TED GORDON, supervisor, Youth Serv-
ice Section, Los Angeles City Board of
Education, wrote:

 

 

MR. TODD is assistant executive director
of the National Recreation Association.

OCTOBER 1961

NCERNING  E P

Arthur Todd
“The Los Angeles City Schools Youth

Services Section conducts roller-skating
activities both indoors and outdoors as
part Of its normal program. Indoor ac-
tivities are primarily on gymnasium
floors and in multi-purpose rooms at
the junior-high-school level.

“Although skepticism was voiced
three years ago at the use of such indoor
facilities, current experience as evi-
denced by letters on file from school
administrators is that the skating pro-
gram is highly popular, successful, and
not injurious to floors.

“Our business division reports that
(1) indoor skating is safe on maple
floors with Duryte plastic wheels, (2)
floors are conditioned with penetrating
seal Of a slow-drying nature so not to
create shiny surface susceptible to cuts
and scratches, (3) asphalt tile is mOpped
with the regular types of polymer used
for kitchen floors.

“Our recreation director responsible
for aiding in the program reports: ‘My
experience with the clamp-on type Of
skate when using the wood-floors Of the
gym or the asphalt tile of the multi-
purpose room to safeguard against
damages has been: (1) to see that the
toe Of the shoe extends at least one inch
beyond the skate, (2) that the final in-
spection before a participant enters the
skating area is made by an adult, (3)
that a rolling-stop rather than a toe-stop
is advocated. I believe, furthermore,
that the instruction to the skater should
emphasize rhythm and grace rather
than speed.’

“In support Of such careful prepara-
tion and operation, our staff makes use
Of duplicated program aids, safety
checklists in the boxes of skates, and
precise demonstrations.”

For further information about the
extensive Los Angeles roller-skating
program write: Los Angeles City
Schools, Youth Services Center Branch,
3317 Bellevue Avenue, Los Angeles 26,

California. #

 

Stop wasting time recording inventory casts,
handing out balls and paying top prices for low
quality balls. Install this attractive, cast-cutting
TFT Table Tennis Ball Meter NOWl

leased FREE to responsible agencies an $10.00
deposit subiect to refund. Trouble-free operation
assured—return machine for FREE repair.- Attrac-
tive hard wood and metal cabinet—7V2 x 8% it IS
inches high. Easy to install. Holds I20 bolls—
dispenses each for I0¢. Choice of 3 grades of
top quality balls. Use profit to maintain and re-
place paddles, nets, etc. No risk guarantee. Send
for free folder: "Stop Wasting Their Time."

I'. F. TWARDZIK 8. (0.,

'9‘? "TR"!& 'T"

SHENANDOAH, PENNA.

 

 

 

The magazine
with new weaving ideas
and helpful proiects
in each issue

Four issues a year
A complete file of back issues
will give you a valuable
weaving library

Write for brochure
and prices of back issues

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Iyr.  4 2yrs.- S 7.50
3yrs. .... ..$I0 5yrs., .y..,._$IS

Pan-American 8: foreign rates
$I a year extra
Single cepies $1.25

Please send checks
or money orders to

Handweaver & Craftsman
246 FIFTH AVENUE NEW YORK T

w

435

 

SPOT ANNOUNCEMENTS

N EXPERIMENT with radio spot an-

nouncements has shown what can
be done to heighten interest in recrea-
tion activities generally and in a given
area in particular. The pilot project
was instituted about a year ago by
Wayne C. Kennedy, superintendent of
the St. Louis County, Missouri, De-
partment of Parks and Recreation, in
cooperation with Radio Station KXOK
based in the city of St. Louis. The
Kennedy-KXOK venture, simply stated,
is a series of brief pre-recorded spot
announcements which the station airs
at intervals each week at its discretion
and at available time. The park depart-
ment pays nothing for the station’s
broadcasts.

This project can be duplicated by any
recreation or park executive in any
community; provided, of course, a ra-
dio station as readily cooperative as
KXOK is available. This should by no
means be difficult for good reasons.
Foremost is the acknowledged increas-
ing interest in all forms of recreation
manifest by people in all age brackets,
from the youngster to “golden-age”
groups.

The Kennedy radio format is simple
but effective. On KXOK he succinctly
gives details of current and future rec-
reation outlets and activities with accent
on the future. He tries, in effect, to de-
tail these as they are about to occur so
that interested persons can plan accord-
ingly. Typical of the spots aimed at all
communities within the station’s cover-
age area, always prefaced by the state-
ment: “This is Wayne Kennedy, your
greater St. Louis recreation reporter,”
are these:

“Florissant residents are extremely
fortunate and will be benefiting from
a concentrated effort on the part of city
officials to deve10p a park and recrea-
tion program. Joe Schulte, Board of
Public Works director, has reported re-
newed interest in obtaining more space
and development of a good park system.
Congratulations, Florissant . . . you’re

on your way I ”

Another: “The Clayton Department

436

of Parks and Recreation announces that
a civic choir is being formed at the
Clayton Community Center. The choir
will meet on Wednesday evenings and
all musically inclined persons are in-
vited to come and share their talents.
The group will meet weekly and will
present short programs as the need
occurs. For further information call

PArkview 5-9155.”

WHILE KENNEDY is recreation super-

intendent for the county depart-
ment of which Charles R. Skow is com-
missioner, it should be emphasized his
announcements of current and future
events are not confined to St. Louis
County but include municipalities and
areas within the coverage area of the
radio station and this takes in a lot of
territory. This could be true in the case

of any radio station anywhere if such
voluntary cooperation could be found.
It should not be overlooked that the
KXOK spots which Kennedy airs are
considered by the station to be a public
service. Time for them is given on that
basis alone.

Pre-recording takes only a few min-
utes of an official’s time. Facts are easy
to obtain; they may be gotten by tele-
phone or scanning local newspapers.
Always, Kennedy says, keep an eye to
the future. The spots are kept to a min-
imum of words; essential details only
are important; brevity is imperative.

Results of the Kennedy-KXOK liai-

son have been most convincing: There
has been a sharp increase in a single
year in the number of persons who have
availed themselves of park facilities, not
only in St. Louis County but surround-
ing areas. Interest has been stimulated
all along the line and in every form of
activity.—LES H. FORMAN, Public Re-
lations Director, St. Louis County,
Missouri, Park Department.

I The Wilderness Trail, a 16MM sound
film in color, was filmed in Wyoming
in the Bridger Wilderness and offers
visual evidence of the recreation values
of the wilderness lands of the national
forests. The hlm is available on loan
by organizations or individuals from
the Forest Service, US. Department of
Agriculture, Washington 25, D.C.

 

They Do It Themselves
Continued from Page 425

 

used for special activities, prizes, flow-
ers, get-well cards, etcetera.

To discover the effect this organiza-
tion has had upon the lives of the par-
ticipants it is only necessary to look into
their faces and to ask their opinions of
the club. Smiles have replaced blank
expressions, eyes sparkle; they talk
more and enjoy each other’s company;
participation in club discussions has
increased.

RADUAL CHANGES are still taking
G place. One woman attended club
meetings for two months before she
took her coat off. Another said nothing
at meetings and very little to other club
members. At the recent election meet-
ing she stood up and nominated some-
one for an office, probably the first time
she has spoken publicly. The general
appearance of the club members has
gradually changed since the early meet-
ings. Many men wear suits and most

of them wear ties. The women also like
to dress up a little for the meetings.

Although the club has grown from
seventeen to almost one hundred mem-
bers, a spirit of friendliness still re-
mains. To some members the weekly
golden-age get-togethers have become
one of the most important happenings
in their lives. To illustrate this it is only
necessary to repeat what some of the
members have said about the club. The
following are typical:

“This is the best thing that has ever
been done for the old folks in Merrill.”

“Thursday is the only day of the
week that I get out of the house, to at-
tend the club meetings.”

“I’ve made many new friends since
joining the Golden Age Club.”

“I used to go on dates with some of IL
these girls and haven’t seen them for\
years. Meeting them now is just like I“
being young again.”

Anyone interested may obtain a copy
of the club’s constitution by writing to:
Recreation Department, Merrill, Wis-
consin. #

RECREATION

 

State and Local DeveIOpments
Continued from Page 422

 

material; the old cement courts at Oakland Park will get

an aSphalt surface; playground apparatus will be installed
by North Kiwanis Park. Winter sports facilities have been

greatly improved. The toboggan slide at Murphy Park
which was constructed in 1958 has been improved with the
installation of a complete lighting system for night tobag-
ganning. In addition, the park department personnel de-
veloped a new snow-making machine. Another highlight of

the winter sports area is a new sled slide, made on the east
side of the park. Pontiac is approximately twenty-five miles
from Detroit, scene of the National Recreation Congress—

October 1-6.

MINNESOTA. In Brooklyn Center nine park areas com-

prising ninety acres are in various stages of development.
A comprehensive study of the village’s park needs culmi-
nated in the adoption of a master park plan in the fall of
1957 and successful bond issue referendum for $400,000 at
the end of the same year. Of this, $212,606 was spent for
parkland acquisition and $158,685 for development. The
balance is allocated for development in Triangle Park. One
area, South Creek, is being developed by the Lions Club.

0 In Minneapolis, the park commission is planning two
boat launching sites, one on the East River Flats below the
Washington Avenue Bridge, and the other at North Mis-
sissippi ,Park near the Camden Bridge. At the present time
no such facilities exist within the city limits, except one
inadequate launching spot below the university campus.
An expenditure of approximately $30,000 is contemplated.

e The Parks and Recreation Department in St. Louis Park
is hard—at work stretching park bond fund monies to cover
development of sixteen park sites. Five of the areas are
already well. advanced: Fern Hill, Birchwood, Oak Hill,
Browndale, and Aquila. Preliminary plans are in process
for the next six park sites on which work should start this
summer.

NEVADA. A giant project in the Lake Mead area has been

officially approved by the National Park service calling for
the expenditure of more than a million dollars for the de-
velopment of a modern boat harbor including complete
facilities for all types of boating and other aquatic sports.
The project is scheduled for completion this summer and
will include a floating dock containing four hundred slips
and 160 moorings. Air-conditioned shops, clubrooms, and
other service facilities will be included. This marks the most
important development in the area since the completion of
the Hoover Dam in 1935. This development should attract
thousands of boating enthusiasts from throughout the

Southwest.

NORTH DAKOTA. Latest addition to recreation facili-

ties in Wahpeton is the beautiful new warming house facing

the lagoon in Chahinkapa Park. This $13,000 structure is
forty-by-sixty feet and constructed with steel. The inside is

3|i OCTOBER 1961

Courtesy True, The Man's Magazine

 

finished with knotty pine and has room for skaters, Ping—
pong facilities, modern rest rooms, and an attractive re-
freshment stand. The all-purpose building is the most popu-
lar spot in town and in the summer it serves as the recrea-
tion headquarters.

Wahpeton (pop. 5,875) is located at the head of the Red
River of the North. The Indians that inhabited the park
area called it Chahinkapa, which means the end of the trees.
R. J. Hughes, owner of the property nestled along the Red
River, offered it to the city for a park. The area has picnic
facilities in abundance and several large shelters. A11 island
was created by a man-made lagoon running through the
park. Several approaches make it easily accessible and the
picnic lovers favor the shady secluded area. A zoo and the
swimming pool are both located near the picnic area, which
is a popular spot. Twelve ball diamonds are located in the
park. Two softball leagues play a rugged schedule and one
of the state’s biggest tournaments is held at Hughes Field
during the month of July. Other facilities include four sum-
mer playgrounds, three asphalt tennis courts, and the eight-
een-hole Bois De Siox golf course, open to all youngsters of
high-school age free of charge; two outdoor basketball
courts, and eight horseshoe pits.

FREE CATALOG
of HANDIORAFT ms

IDEAL [OR CLASSROOM. RECREATION. [ONO RAISING
Complete Ready To
Use Easy To Do

Rays of Delight to
light a Rainy Day ‘l'aol

 

COSTS AS llTTlE AS

7%: EACH IN QUANTITIES

KITS CONTAIN EVERYTHING
NEEDED TO MAKE PRACTICAI. OR
DECORATIVE GIFTS WITH
EASY-TO-FOltOW INSTRUCTIONS

0 leather 0 Jewelry 0 Basketry
0 Copper 0 Ceramics 0 Decorations

and Dozens of other
Fascinating Hobby Crafts
Constructive Craft Kits to fit
All. Ages 7 to 70 plusl

Send Today For Frat Cataiog

HOllDAY HANDKRAHS. IIIC..APPlE Hill. WIHSIED 51. (OIIII.

  

Leisure and Recreation in Society,

Zulie Nakhooda. Kitab Mahal, Alla-
hebad 3, India. Pp. 344. $5.00.

Based on the author’s doctoral thesis
at the University of Bombay, this book
has been produced primarily as a source
of help for those in Bombay and in all
of India interested in the potentials of
leisure and recreation as a valuable so-
cial force. Since it is written in English,
it will, however, be of interest, far be-
yond the Indian borders, to serious stu-
dents of the world-wide leisure-time
movement. Exhaustive research has
been done and is well-reported and doc-
umented.

In a long and interesting chapter on
“Recreation and Play,” Dr. Nakhooda
discusses the many aspects of both
terms and demonstrates that it is well-
nigh impossible to give them a simple
definition. “In the deepest source of
motivation,” she says, “play and recrea-
tion have only one meaning and one in-
tent—to enjoy an activity as an end in
itself rather than as a means to some
other activity or goal. The young of all
mammalian species, unless checked,
spend most of their time in sheer ex-
pressive behavior. It is in leisure time
that the opportunity for ‘adult’ play, for
a fresh, vivid and creative orientation
of man, can be provided through bal-
ancing recreation pursuits. Play, rec-
reation and leisure all involve freedom,
spontaneity and choice, and, according
to this thesis, only through play and
recreation for the child and the adult
respectively, can a satisfying and en-
riching use of leisure contribute to-
wards happy and abundant living.” The
book includes a good discussion on the
sociology of recreation and presents the
results of careful research on the history
of leisure and recreation in various civ-
ilizations and nations.———George N esbitt,
National Recreation Association I nter-
national Recreation Service.

Auditoriums and Arenas, Francis R.

Deering, Don Jewell and Lindsley C.'

Lueddeke. Public Administration Serv-
ice, I31 3 East 60th Street, Chicago 37.
Pp. 86, illustrated. $5.00.*

There has long been need for a pub-
lication containing authorative infor-

438

mation with reference to the design,
construction, financing, and operation
of auditoriums and arenas. The Public
Administration Service has rendered a
valuable service in making available
the findings from a survey conducted
by the International Association of Au-
ditorium Managers. The publication
should prove useful to any city that is
considering the construction of such a
facility and to authorities responsible
for the operation of existing buildings.
The report deals with such factors as
administrative responsibility, construc-

tion costs, the site, building facilities, .

financing operations, personnel and re-
lated problems. Many tables give de-
tailed information based upon the re-
turns from eighty-two auditorium man-

a gers.—G.D.B .

Rimbles—A Book of Children's Clas-
sic Games, Rhymes, Songs, and Say-
ings, Patricia Evans, illustrated by
Gioia Fiammenghi. Doubleday and
Company, Garden City, New York.

Pp. 158, illustrated. $2.95.

Remember those delightful little
twenty-five cent booklets on Jump Rope
Rhymes, Hopscotch, Jacks, W ho’s It,
and Sticks and Stones, all written by
Patricia Evans and published by the
Porpoise Press, San Francisco? Here
they all are, plus more, plus wonderful
illustrations, plus a very fine print job.
A really plus job all around.

Mrs. Evans has collected these from
children; they’re not just memories
written secondhand. They are folklore,
to be sure, but Vivid, alive, and flexible
to meet modern interests of modern
children. As Mrs. Evans says, “Chil-
dren are the most conservative of peo-
ple. In their relaxed, unsupervised play
times, they sometimes come out with
phrases or verses dating back hundreds
of years. While they have occasionally
learned these from grandparents, they
have usually learned them from chil-
dren just a few years older. Since a
“generation” of childhood playtime is
scarcely six to eight years in duration,

*Available from National Recreation Asso-
ciation, Recreation Book Center, 8 W. 8th
Street, New York 11.

EW . '
PUBLICATIONS

this transmission is real and direct and
still Vital, with few if any forgotten
words.” The title is taken from the

French word rimailler—to write dog- '

gerel—as opposed to rimer—to write
verse.

If you have read Mrs. ’Arris Goes to
Paris and its illustrations, you’ll know

what amusing, delightful sketches illus-
trate this book.——V.M.

Things to Make for Children. lane
Book Company, Menlo Park, Califor-
nia. Pp. 96, illustrated. $1.75.

Our readers in the eight Western
states who are already familiar with
Lane’s Sunset Books know that they are
always profusely and well illustrated,
that directions are accurate, and the
projects original and practical. This
book is no exception. It is full of ideas
and directions for “toys, togs, party
fun,” meaning dollhouses, kits, pup-
pets, nature crafts, needlework projects,
decorations and the like, for holidays
and just for fun. Supposedly prepared
for parents, most of the projects can be
made by youngsters. We suggest that
the word for in the title be changed to
with.

The Campers‘ Bible, Bill Riviere.
Doubleday and Company, Garden
City, New York. Pp. 176, illustrated.
Paper, $1.95.

Written by a former Maine guide,
this inexpensive book is a complete guide
to outdoor living. Written primarily for
the sportsman and vacationist, its con-
tents are illustrated by more than one
hundred line drawings and photo-
graphs. It discusses the many types of
tents, sleeping bags, fire-making, safety,
cooking, use of tools, the canoe, cloth-
ing, packs and packing—factors that
make the difference between on oyment

and discomfort when camping in thex:
Ill

wilderness or state and national parks
and forests.

Like seed and mail order catalogues,
this is wonderful “dream-about” read-
ing, whether that camping trip comes
true or not. In actual practice, it will
prove invaluable.

RECREATION

{

 

BOOKS 8: PAMPHLETS RECEIVED

. a. 10"-

 

.:.   ~-
AdmInIstrqtlon, Personnel

 

ASSESSMENT OF EMPLOYEE MORALE, THE,
Ronald Paul Yuzuk. Ohio State Univ., 164
W. 19 Ave., Columbus 10. Pp. 67. Paper,
$2.00.

COMPETITION Is PEOPLE, Raymond Dreyfack.
Employee Relations, 19 W. 34th St., New
York 1. Pp. 14. 3.25.

DIMENSIONS OF EXECUTIVE POSITIONS, John
K. Hemphill. Ohio State Univ., 164 W. 19
Ave., Columbus 10. Pp. 103. Paper, $2.00.

EFFECTS OF LEADERSHIP, THE, Hanan C. Sel—
Vin. Free Press, 119 W. Lake St., Chicago
1. Pp. 270. $5.00.

EMPLOYEE PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL RE-Ex-
AMINED, Clifford E. Jurgensen, Felix M.
Lopez, J r., and Kenneth E. Richards. Pub-
lic Personnel Assn., 1313 E. 60th St., Chi-
cago 37. Pp. 29. Paper, $2.50.

LAWS OF PLACES AND PLEASURES, Robert M.
Debevec. Oceana Publ., 80 Park Ave. S.,
New York 3. Pp. 96. Paper, $1.00.

MAN WITH THE STOP WATCH, Raymond Drey-
fack. Employee Relations, 13 E. 53rd St.,
New York 22. Pp. 14. $.25. '

MANAGEMENT TALENT SEARCH: RECRUITING
PROFESSIONAL PERSONNEL, P. W. Maloney.
Amer. Management Assn., 1515 Broadway,
New York 36. Pp. 160. $4.50 ($3.00 to
AMA members).

MANUAL FOR PARK AND RECREATION BOARDS
AND COMMISSIONS, Edward A. Connell.
Ameré'lnst. of Park Executives, Oglebay

. Park,. Wheeling, W.Va. Pp. 40. Paper,
$2.00. ‘-=-:: .

NEW UNDERSTANDINGS OF ADMINISTRATION,
Hafleigh B. Trecker. Association Press, 291

 Broadway, New York 17. Pp. 245. $4.50.
PERSONNEL,ADMINISTRATION (4th ed.), Paul
Pigors and Charles A. Myers. McGraw-
Hill, 330 W. 42nd St., New York 36. Pp.
749. $7.95.

STATE CONSTITUTIONS: THE SHAPE OF THE

 DOCUMENT, Robert B. Dishman, pp. 48,

" paper, $1.50; REAPPORTIONMENT, Gordon
E. Baker, pp. '70,- ‘paper, $2.00; THE GOV-
ERNOR, Bennett M. Rich, pp. 33, paper,
$1.00; THE STRUCTURE OF ADMINISTRATION,
Ferrel Heady, pp. 50, paper, $1.50. Natl.
Municipal League, 47 E. 68th St., New York
21.

SUPERVISION—NEW PATTERNS AND PROCESSES,
Margaret Williamson. Association Press,
291 Broadway, New York 17. Pp. 176.
$4.00.

SUPERVISORS IN ACTION, Joseph J. Famularo.
McGraw-Hill, 330 W. 42nd St., Nev» York
36. Pp. 238. $4.75.

TOP MANAGEMENT HANDBOOK, H. B. May-
nard, Editor. McGraw-Hill, 330 W. 42 St.,
New York 36. Pp. 1236. $17.50.

ENRICHING THE ADDED YEARS. US. Govt.
Printing Office, Washington 25, D.C. Pp.
15. $.10.

GENERAL BIBLIOGRAPHY ON AGING, A. Natl.
Committee on the Aging, 345 E. 46th St.,
New York 17. Pp. 7. Free.

HOMES FOR THE AGED. Welfare Council of
Metropolitan Chicago, 123 W. Madison St.,
Chicago 10. Pp. 68. Paper, $1.00.

HOW To WORK WITH OLDER PEOPLE, Florence
E.- Vickery. Documents Section, State
Printing Office, N. 7th & Richards Blvd.,
Sacramento 14, California. Pp. 59. Paper,
$1.00 (plus $.04 for Calif. addresses). '

INDUSTRY’S INTEREST IN THE OLDER WORKER
AND THE RETIRED EMPLOYEE, Michael T.
Wermel and Geraldine M. Beideman, Edi-
tors. Bookstore, California lnstitute of
Technology, Pasadena, Calif. Pp. 35. Paper,
$1.00.

. LEARNING TO WORK WITH THE AGED, Eileen

Martinson Lavine. William Hodson Com-
munity Center for Older Persons, Old Boro
Hall, Tremont & 3rd Aves., Bronx 57, N. Y.
Pp. 118. Paper, $2.00.

LIVING LONGER. US. Govt. Printing Office,
Washington 25, D.C. Unpaged. $.25.
MAKING THE LATER YEARS COUNT, Austin
App. Bruce Pub., 400 N. Broadway, Mil-

waukee 1. Pp. 177. $3.95.

PRIVATE NURSING HOMES (THEIR ROLE IN
THE CARE OF THE AGED), Ogden Greeley.
Public Affairs Committee, 22 E. 38th St.,
New York 16. Pp. 20. 3.25.

PROGRAMS & RESOURCES FOR OLDER PEOPLE;
US. Govt. Printing Oflice, Washington 25,
D.C. Pp. 83. 3.30.

SPANNING THE GENERATIONS, Dr. Arnold M.
Rose. Natl. Council of Jewish Women, 1
W. 47th St., New York 36. Pp. 32. $1.00.

UTILIZATION OF OLDER PROFESSIONAL AND
SCIENTIFIC WORKERS. Natl. Council on the
Aging, 345 E. 46th St., New York 17. Pp.
20. Free.

YOU’RE OLDER THAN YOU THINK, Leonard

Gernant. Western Michigan Univ., Kala-
mazoo. Pp. 189. $3.50.

Church

BIBLE STORYTELLING PUPPETS, Evelyn Mitch-
ell. Standard Publ., 8100 Hamilton Ave.,
Cincinnati 31. Pp. 47. Paper, $1.00.

CHURCH CAMP PROGRAM, THE, Betty van der
Smissen. Faith and Life Press, Newton,
Kansas. Pp. 79. Paper, $1.50.

0
Courtesy True, The Man's Magazine

DEVOTIONAL PROGRAMS FOR YOUNG ADULTS,
Al Bryant. Zondervan Publ., 1415 Lake
Dr. S.E., Grand Rapids 6, Mich. Pp. 63.
Paper, $1.00.

DEVO'I‘ION, Virginia Ely. Fleming H. Revell,
Booker St., Westwood, N. J. Pp. 126. $2.50.

DEVOTIONS FOR JUNIOR HIGIIs, Helen F.
Courch and Sam S. Bareheld. Abingdon
Press, 201 Eighth Ave. S., Nashville 3, Tenn.
Pp. 111. $1.75.

FAITII FOR MODERNS, A, Robert Gordis.
Bloch Publ., 31 W. 3lst St., New York 1.
Pp. 316. $5.00.

FLORAL DECORATIONS FOR YOUR CIIURCII,
Fern Bowers Hunt. Chilton Co., 56th 81
Chestnut Sts., Philadelphia 39. Pp. 223.
$6.95.

MINISTERING CIIURCII, A, Gaines S. Dobbins.
Broadman Press, 127 9th Ave. N., Nash-
ville 3, Tenn. Pp. 231. $3.95.

NEW LOOK AT FAITII AND LOYALTIES, A, com-
piled by Hether Kay. Sportshelf, P.O. Box
634, New Rochelle, N. Y. Pp. 48. Paper,
$1.50.

NORTHERN PARISII, Joseph B. Schuyler, SJ.
Loyola Univ. Press, 3441 N. Ashland Ave.,
Chicago 13. Pp. 360. $8.00.

NURSERY-KINDERGARTEN WEEKDAY EDUCATION
IN THE CHURCII, Josephine Newbury. John
Knox Press, Box 1176, Richmond 9, Va.
Pp. 203. $3.50.

OBJECT TALKS WITH PAPER AND SCISSORS,
Carol Femtheil. Standard Publ., 8100
Hamilton Ave., Cincinnati 31. Pp. 48. Pa-
per, $1.00.

PRAYERS To LIVE BY, David St. Leger. Em-
ployee Relations, 13 E. 53rd St., New York
22. Pp. 15. 3.25.

So YOU WORK WITH KINDERGARTENERS, Doro-
thy Nicholson. Gospel Trumpet Press, An-
derson, Ind. Pp. 64. $1.00.

So YOU WORK WITH PRIMARIES, Ethel M.
Phillips. Gospel Trumpet Press, Anderson,
Ind. Pp. 64. $1.00.

WORSHIP PROGRAMS FOR JUNIORS, Alice A.
Bays and Elizabeth Jones Oakberg. Abing-
don Press, 201 8th Ave. S., Nashville 3,
Tenn. Pp. 206. $3.00.

YOUTH FELLOWSHIP KIT, Vol. 18, Ralph R.
Sundquist, J r., Editor. Westministcr Press,
Witherspoon Bldg. Philadelphia 7. Pp. 232.
Paper, $3.50.

Civil War

CIVIL WAR, TIIE HOW AND WHY WONDER
BOOK OF TIIE,‘ Earl Schenck Miers. Won-
der Books, 1107 Broadway, New York 10.
Pp. 48. Paper, $.50.

CIVIL WAR TREASURY, A, B. A. Botkin, Editor.
Random House, 457 Madison Ave., New

York 22. Pp. 625. $7.95.
HARPER'S FERRY, Manly Wade Wellman.

McNally of Charlotte, 5308 Monroe Rd.,
Charlotte 5, N. C. Pp. 183. $3.50.
HEROINES OF TIIE BLUE AND GRAY, pp. 14, and
IIEROINES OF TIIE AMERICAN REVOLUTION,
pp. 16. Both by David James llarkness.

Aging

Univ. of Tennessee, Box 8540, Knoxville.

$1.00 each.
STORIES OF CIVIL WAR SONGS, Ernest K. Em-

urian. W. A. Wilde, Natick, Mass. Pp. 96.
$2.50.

 

AGING AND LEISURE, Robert W. Kleemeier,

I Editor. Oxford Univ. Press, 417 5th Ave.,
New York 16. Pp. 447. $5.75.

CASE STUDY OF A SENIOR CITIZENS ASSOCIA-

TION. U.S. Dept. of Health, Education &

Welfare, Washington 25, D.C. Pp. 37.

Free.

' THE ELDERLY: WHAT ARE THEIR OPPORTUNI-
TIES AND PROBLEMS? Center for Informa-
tion on America, Washington, Conn. Pp. 4.

$.35.
OCTOBER 1961

Games and Hobbies

PLAYDAYS, (Science Fun), Francis A. Frey
and Frances W. Kenne. Seahorse Press,

Pelham, N. Y. Pp. 112. Paper, $1.00.
POPULAR DOMINO GAMES, Dominic C. Arman-

439

 

 

“Oh, dear! I know there are two fish
in here somewhere.”

ino. David McKay, 119 W. 40th St., New
York 18. Pp. 56. Spiralbound, $1.95.
POSTMARK COLLECTING, R. K. Forster. Sport-

shelf, Box 634, New Rochelle, N. Y. Pp.

192. $8.00.
RADIO AMATEUR’S HANDBOOK, THE, 38th Edi-

tion-1961. Amer. Radio Relay League,
West Hartford 7, Conn. Pp. 584. Paper,

$3.50.
SECRETS OF CHECKERBOARD STRATEGY, Tom

Wiswell. Simon & Schuster, 630 5th Ave.,
New York 20. Pp. 127. $3.50.

SEWING MADE EASY, Mary Lynch and Dorothy
Sara. Doubleday, 575 Madison Ave., New
York 22. Pp. 403. $3.95.

SHADOW MAGIC, Bill Severn. David McKay,
119 W. 40th St., New York 18. Pp. 179.

$3.00.

International

 

ARCHAEOLOGY OF PALESTINE, THE, F. A]-
bright. Penguin Books, 3300 Clipper Mill
Rd., Baltimore, Md. Pp. 271. $.95.

ARTS OF THAILAND, THE, Theodore Bowie,
Editor. Indiana University Press, Box 47,
Bloomington. Pp. 219. $8.95.

BURRO BENEDICTO, THE,* Folk Tales and Leg-
ends Of Mexico, Phillip D. Jordan. Coward-
McCann, 210 Madison Ave., New York 16.
Pp. 92. $3.50.

CHILDREN’S SONGS FROM JAPAN, Florence
White and Kazuo Akiyama. Edward B.
Marks Music Corp., 136 W. 52nd St., New
York 19. Pp. 92. $4.95.

CHINESE FAIRY TALES,* Peter Pauper Press,
629 McQueston Pkwy., Mt. Vernon, N. Y.
Pp. 60. $1.00.

DRUM AND THE HOE, THE, (Haiti), Harold
Courlander. Univ. of California Press,
Berkeley 4. Pp. 371. $10.00.

EXPLORING THE NEW LATIN AMERICA, Olive
Holmes Blum. National Board of the
YWCA, 600 Lexington Ave., New York 22.
Pp. 61. $.60.

FACES LOOKING UP, Africa, Asia, Europe—at
School, Mina Lewiton. Harper & Bros., 49
E. 33rd St., New York 6. Pp. 153. $2.95.

FAIRY TALES OF INDIA; FAIRY TALES OF
FRANCE; FAIRY TALES OF MEXICO; and
FAIRY TALES OF ENGLAND;* all adapted by
Barbara Ker Wilson. Dutton & Co., 300
Park Ave. S., New York 10. Unpaged.
$1.50 each.

FOLK TALES OF LIBERIA,* J. Luke Creel. T. S.
Denison & Co., 321 5th Ave. S., Minneapolis
15. Pp. 144. $3.50.

HEATHER AND BROOM, Sorche Nic Leodhas.
Holt, Rinehart and Winston, 383 Madison
Ave., New York 17. Pp. 128. $3.25.

INK-SMEARED LADY (Japanese folk plays),
translated by Shio Sakanishi. Charles E.
Tuttle, Rutland, Vt. Pp. 150. $2.95.

JAPANESE INN, Oliver Statler. Random House,
457 Madison Ave., New York 22. Pp. 365.
$6.50.

RICHER BY ASIA (catalog of books on Asia).
American Library Association, 50 E. Huron
St., Chicago 11. Pp. 64. Paper, $1.25.

SESSHU’S LONG SCROLL—A Zen Landscape
Journey, Reiko Chiba, Editor. Charles E.
Tuttle, Rutland, Vt. $2.50.

SOCIAL PROBLEMS AND SOCIAL DISORGANIZA-
TION IN INDIA, Dr. C. B. Mamoria. Kitab
Mahal, Publishers, Allahabad 3, India. Pp.
432. $4.00.

* For younger readers.

440

TALES OF ANCIENT ARABY, and TALES OF AN-
CIENT EGYPT, Charles Mozley. Franklin
Watts, 575 Lexington Ave., New York 22.
Each, pp. 68. $1.95 each.

THIS IS EDINBURGH,* pp. 59, $4.25; THIS IS
MUNICH,* pp. 60, $3.00; both by M. Sasek.
Macmillan Co., 60 5th Ave., New York 11.

TOKYO YOU SHOULD SEE, THE, Charles E. Tut-
tle, Rutland, Vt. Unpaged. Paper, $.85.

TOONTOONY PIE AND OTHER TALES FROM PAK-
ISTAN,* Ashraf Siddiqui and Marilyn Lerch.
World Pub., 2231 W. 110th St., Cleveland
2. Pp. 157. $3.50.

UNITED STATES PUBLIC AND THE UNITED NA-
TIONS, THE. Carnegie Endowment for In-
ternational Peace, 345 E. 46th St., New
York 17. Pp. 52. Free.

Sports and Physical Education

 

KRANZ MANUAL OF KINESIOLOGY (4th ed.),,

Clem W'. Thompson. C. V. Mosby, 3207
Washington Blvd., St. Louis 3, Mo. Pp. 159.
Paper, $3.75.

LET’S ALL GO SWIMMING, Reg Laxton. Sport-
shelf, P. O. Box 634, New Rochelle, N. Y.
Pp. 126. $3.75.

MARKSMANSHIP FOR YOUNG SHOOTERS. AAH-
PER, 1201 16th St., N.W., Washington 6,
D. C. Pp. 22. Paper, $1.00.

NORM VAN BROCKLIN’S FOOTBALL BOOK:
Passing, Punting, Quarterbacking. Ronald
Press, 15 E. 26th St., New York 10. Pp.
115. $3.50.

OFFICIAL BASEBALL RULES (1961 ed.). Spink
Sports Pub., St. Louis 66, Mo. Pp. 86. Pa-
per, $.50.

OFFICIAL NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION
GUIDE, Bill Mokray, Editor. C. C. Spink &
Son, St. Louis 66, Mo. Pp. 234. Paper,
$1.00.

PASSING GAME IN FOOTBALL, THE, Jack C.
Curtice. Ronald Press, 15 E. 26th St., New
York 10. Pp. 117. $3.50.

US. SOCCER FOOTBALL GUIDE, Bill Graham,
Editor. Sportshelf, P.O. Box 634, New Ro-
chelle, N.Y. Pp. 144. Paper, $1.00.

VOLLEYBALL, Robert E. Laveaga. Ronald
Press, 15 E. 26th St., New York 10. Pp.
126. $2.95.

VOLLEYBALL OFFICIAL GUIDE 1961, J. Edmund
Welch, Editor. USVBA Printer, Box 109,
Berne, Ind. Pp. 206. Paper, $1.00.

WRESTLING ILLUSTRATED, Raymond E. Sparks.
Ronald Press, 15 E. 26th St., New York 10.
Pp. 118. $2.95.

 

This seal-skin stencil of a caribou is a
greeting card designed by Pootagook,

a Cape Dorset Eskimo, for the United
Nations Children’s Fund. Leaflet of
UNICEF greeting and Christmas cards -

is available from the U .3. Committee for

UNICEF, United Nations, New Y ork.

 

MAGAZINE ARTICLES

 

THE CAMP FIRE GIRL, September 1961
Youth in a Space Age, Thomas J. Curtin.
Symbolgrams, Ruth Kemp Lattimore.

MENTAL HOSPITALS, July 1961

The Ward Community: A New Route TO-
ward Long-Standing Goals, Carl L. Mc-
Gahee, M.D.

Finding Buried Treasure in the Hospital,
Robert Sommer, Ph.D. and Irene Watson.

Patient Government: Development and Out-
growths, Aladar E. Mako, M .D.

“I Didn’t Know the Person in the Next
Room, but . . .” (dual purpose remotiva-
tion) , Gladys Adams, L.P.N.

MINUTES,* August 1961

The Oak in Prospect Street (Madison,
N. J .)

Tweetsie Railroad

NATIONAL PARKS MAGAZINE, September 1961

A Plan for the Allagash (Maine), Bill
Geagan

A Matter of Life or Death in Africa (wild-
life management), Stewart L. Udall.

PARENTS’, September 1961 ,

You Can Lead a Troop and Like It, Eloise
Engle. '

Just What Is Problem Behavior?
A. W. Stoup‘er, Jr., Ph.D.

PARKS AND RECREATION, July 1961

Parks and Recreation: What will the Fu-
ture Bring??? Garrett G. Eppley.

August 1961

The Threat of ‘Private’ Encroachment, Ed-
ward A. Connell.

St. Louis’ Opulent Forest Park, J. W. Bach-
menu.

The Importance of Good Park Maintenance,

Lynn V. Koons.

Behind the Command Play Ball!
E. Bolinger.
SATURDAY EvENING POST, August 26, 1961
Glamour Treatment for Mentally Ill, Mit'ton
and Margaret Silverman.
Nose Job (Mount Rushmore).
TODAY’S HEALTH, August 1961
Report on the Nation’s Health, Abraham
Ribicog.
Canoeing in the Border Lakes Country,
Michael Frame. »
The Coming Struggle for Clean Water, Ken-
neth N. Anderson.
, September 1961
Preparing for the Harvest Years, John J.
Smith.
Safety on Horseback, Raymond Schuessler.
How to Improve Our Children’s Physical
Fitness, Jack Lentz.
What to Do When You Are Lost (in the
woods), William P. Schramm.
Fabulous Fishing Spots the Tourists Hav-
en’t Discovered, Joe Austell Small.
Play Therapy Helps Handicapped Kids,
Dennis Orphan.
WOMAN’S DAY, September 1961
Science After Hours.
The ABC’s of Raising Money.
Cooking for a Crowd.
Haiku (by 6th grade class in Boulder, Colo-
rado).
Story of American Needlecraft #4: Hook-

ing.

George

 

Charles

*Available from the Nationwide Mutual In-
surance Company, 246 North High Street,

Columbus, Ohio.

RECREATION

 

 

In Your RECREATION PROGRAM
...wit|1 AMERICAN Trampolines

The boom in trampolining can
be a real boon to your recrea-
tion program. Trampolining
has become America’s fastest-
growing sport. Take advan-
tage of this unprecedented
popularity. Schedule trampo—
lining on your program and
watch how fast interest and
excitement mount! But get
the best — specify American
Trampolines! Only American

 

 

Trampounes Offer you triple- N Special skill needed to trampoline
brldged leg $0nStruet10n and all the bays (and girls) can participate!
other exclus1ve features for

longer life . . . better balance
. . . and superior performance.
With American’s newly in-
creased production facilities,
you’ll also get immediate de-
livery. Write today for our
new catalog and prices. Yours
FREE for the asking!

    

American Trampolines fold up easily and
quickly for storage and transportation

FREE—Wall Charts, Lesson Plans and LARRY GRISWOLD “Trampoline
Tumbling" Textbook With each AMERICAN TRAMPOLINE

I]?!

smile

 
 
 
  
 

American Trampolines Meet All
A.A.U. and N.C.A.A. specifications
—Are Guaranteed Highest Quality

  

AMERICAN TRAMPOLINE COMPANY, JEFFERSON 24, IOWA
If if'g an AMERICAN Trampoline. it's #19 FINEQT

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

WE’RE
SINGING. . .

about our pamphlet

MUSIC IS RECREATION

 

The first in a series on The Performing Arts as
Recreation.- Get a copy for each staff member.

AVAILABLE NOW!

11 to 24 copies—$.85 each 0 25 or more—$.75 each I
100 or over—$65 per hundred 0 Single copy—-—$1.00

‘a.

DRAMA IS RECREATION.

The second in the series, HAS BEEN POSTPONED. .

Watch for announcement of new publication date! 
.5“:

f _

.3»

ORDER FROM

THE NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
8 West’Eighth Street _0 New York 11, N. Y. \a

