—_.,

ECREATION

TIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION 0 FEBRUARY 1962 ' 60c

 
         
      

.- 1. " INTERNATIONAL {PROGRAMS
' DRAMA Is RECREATION

GEUDESIC PICNIC SHELTERS

BY GAME-TIME

Ideal for recreational—park—golf course use. Utilizes I
exccptionally strong geodesic engineering principle. I

 

Shelters are available with 23' or 39' clear spans. Can-

opy domes manufactured from all wcather Duraply.

Enclosed buildings also available. ONLY $475.00 F.0.B.
LITCIIFIELD FOR 23' MODEL. Write Bob Wormser, Vicc
Prcsident, for completc information on shelters and . 0 Each holds one year’s issues

Game-timc's complete linc of Imagineercd Park and
Playground Equipment. 0 Opens Hat for changes

GAME-TIME. INC- RECREATION MAGAZINE

6161033325332? Simp'san Milicg‘aieigiym'ch'ga" 8 West Eighth Street. New York II

Manufacturers at Imagineered Playground Equipment

Dated and Unda ted

0 Blue heavy simulated leather stamped in gold

 

Rolls Away

Superior  -  Y _ I  \ in Seconds . 

   _ f  if Roll-A-Way Dolly!

“lb-aw“ - , I

Now you can provide more pool I
tables for more players . . . yet
clear your floor in seconds for
other activities! Superior's FULL
SIZE Folding Pool Tables, with
Roll-A-Way Dolly, make it possible
for you to schedule a flexible and
varied recreation program
without loss of space.

Pick Up Dolly
and Roll Away!

Slip Roll-A-Way Dolly

under Pool Table. _ ' —.._..__._.
' Superlor

Write Dept. 6702 -A for color catalog.

SUPERIOR INDUSTRIES CORPORATION
520 Coster Street, New York 59, N .Y.

Manufacturers of Superior Easi-Fold
Rolling Table Tennis Tables

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

This brand new folk-dance book offers
110 authentic dances from 80 nations
"more. than any other book!

Special Record Albums .’

Professor Kraus has planned, arranged, and
supervised the recording of four albums ex.
pressly designed for users of his book. Each
album includes twelve authentic dances plns

directions for teaching them.

F.D.1. Folk Dance Funfest $1.95
For children and beginncrs
F.D.2. Dancing ’Ronnd the World 54.95

Basic steps of waltz, polka. scltottische,
and two-step for junior and senior high-
school groups' and adult beginners

F.D.3. Folk Dance Festival $4.95
Intermediate dances using same basic
stcps as F.D.2 but at slightly more ad-
vanced level

I".D.4. Dances of Many Lands $4.95
More complcx dances, popular with ex-

perienced folk-dancers, including sev-
era] that are new to this country

Recordings may be ordered from David McKay,
Inc., 119 West 40th Strcet, New York, New

York. Or use thc handy coupon.

FEBRUARY, 1962

 

The newest folk-dance book on the market provides more use-
ful information in less space—and at lower cost—than any other
folk-dance volume. One important way in which the author
achieves this remarkable coverage is by relying for accompani-
ment exclusively on recordings, which are conveniently and

inexpensively available, and omitting long and costly pages of
sheet music.

FOLK DANCING 

A. Guide for Schools, Colleges, and
Recreation. Groups

, By RICHARD o. KRAUS

Columbia University Teachers College

0 each dance clearly outlined in measure-by-measure analysis
of step action

0 carefully classified according to formation, then divided into
sub-groups by necessary skills, levels of difficulty, etc.

0 careful diagrams of dance steps and patterns, plus illustra-
tions showing simple folk-dance costumes

0 some square dances included

0 suitable recordings suggested for each dance, listing of
sources for folk-dance recordings across the country

Information on folk-dance background and values for
leaders

' full analyses of basic steps, formations, and skills

° teaching guides and methods, suggested programs for various
age levels

° survey of physical, social, and intercultural values of folk
dancing

0 full classification tables of dances, up-to-date bibliographies

I‘-—————————FREE TRIAL 0FFER!—————————
THE MACMILLAN COMPANY, 50 Fifth Avenue, New York 11, New York

l’leasc scnd me copies of Folk Dancing on tcn-day free trial. I

may return it within ten days without obligation. Otherwise, Macmillan
will bill me $5.95 per copy plus postage. If I enclose payment with order,
Macmillan pays postage. The same return privilege applies.

In addition, please send me the following recordings at $4.95 each (return
privileges do not apply to recordings) :

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

: _____ F.D.1 Folk Dance Funfest

I ,__._____ F.D.2. Dancing ’Ronnrl the World
I _..___..___ F.D.3. Folk Dance Festival

I ______._.._. F.DA. Dances of Many Lands
I

I

I

I

I

L

Name- - _ W.___-.__ _ _____

Address-

_ _ ——-—.— ---—- .n—u—u-n. _—

City Zone- ,____State.._

 

Dept. Rcl '
_.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. o 53

 

C BEATION

 

FEBRUARY 1962 VOL. LV NO. 2 PRICE 60c
My Philosophy of Recreation (Editorial) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Joseph E. Curtis 59
Flavor the new with the old
Round the World with Recreation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
New developments on the international scene ,
The Abode of Three Loves . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
Miami receives Japanese garden and teahouse as gift ‘
4 Recreation and the Sister City Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Keith A. Macdonald . 64
g A people-to-peOple exchange
g Creative Recreation in Jamaica . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Cracc Walker 65
(9 Leadership workshop [or 4-H Clubs
A Yardstick of Growth . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Mtch E. McCann 66
Parks and Recreation Yearbook delineates expansion in public recreation
Travel with the North Wind . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Roderick MacRac 68
Winter camping offers an exhilarating new experience
Accentuate the Positive . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . May Neal 70
Saskatchewan’s program [or senior citizens
Youth in Command . . . . Mildred Pcndcr Dcaton 72

Cooperation. betwecn airbase and thc community .

Drama ls Recreation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 75
Second snpplczncnt in series on The Performing Arts as Rccreation
5 x .
é 'lhc Travclmg Vegetable and Other Games . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . J. D. McAnlay 91
(D How children play in Latin Amcrica
O C
E Prelndcs to Action . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 100
How to use thc Performing Arts supplements .
Yonr Arts and Crafts Corner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . f . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Edited by Shirley Siibcrt 103
Helpful timesavcrs and waste-nots '
z
9
a State and Local Developments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 95
5.) W isconsin’s $33,000,000 program '
Z A Home for the Range . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 97
5 Converting an abandoned water works into rifle range
Connnnnity Festival . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . John Climer 101
£73 A showcase for cultural activity
(D a O i
— Lookm" at the ‘Vorld Thronfrh Medieval Glasses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I’cari Creenber 102
D :9 t': g
>— Modern techniques in staincd glass
:‘c'
‘2 Letters 56 As \Vc Go To Press 57 Reporter’s Notebook 93 Concerning Upkeep 98 Personnel 99
(:3 Rx for the Ill and Handicapped 105 Market News 106 Trade Mart 107 New Publications 110
RECREATION is published monthly except July and August by the National Recreation Copyright, 1962, by the National 
Association, a service organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 8 West Eighth “ccmti” “memiw' 1"°°'p°m°d  
Street, New York 11, New York, is on file in public libraries and is indexed in the Readers’ {ante Printed in the U.S.A. 

Guide. Subscription $5.00 a year. Canadian and foreign subscription rate 35.75. Re-en-
tered as second-class matter April 25, 1950, at the Post OEce in New York, New York,
under Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided
for in Section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized May 1, 1924. Microfilms of current

issues available from University Microfilms, 313 N. First Street, Ann Arbor, Michigan.

[)UCATIONAL The articles herein
BESS printed are the expres-

SSOCIATION “°" °’ "1° writers and

nat a statement at pollcy
0F at the National Recrea-

A M ERIC A tian Association.

   
 

54 RECREATION

RECREATION

Editor in Chief, JOSEPH PRENDERGAST
Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON

 

Assistant Editor, ELVIRA DELANY
Associate Editors
Administration, GEORGE BUTLER
Program, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

Business Manager
FRANK Rows

Advertising Manager
ESTA GLUCK

 

',_On The Cover

A new dimension in ceramics, free-
- form sculpture, has fired the imagina-
,tions of students in a ceramics workshop
conducted by the Department of Parks,
: Recreation, and Conservation of West—
chester County, New York. Instructor
Albert Jacobson and student Ruth Ber-
cndson show how absorbing this new
' form can be. This issue introduces a
new service to craftsman, our Arts and

Crafts Corner (see Page 103). Photo by
John Cass, Tuckahoe, New York.

Next Month

Our annual Camping Issue will con-
tain many developments on the camping
frontier, from a canoe course: for blind
campers at Camp Lighthouse on Barne-
gat Bay, New Jersey, to a workshop for
camping families in Iowa and a new na-
ture center and program in a New
Hampshire state park. The current em-
phasis on more meaningful science pro-
grams has created the need for “Be-
thinking Camp Science,” in which a
camp science director explains how
campers can learn from the things of
science rather than from books about
science. Another article will discuss
prohlems and trends in the camping
field, including the effect of. family
camping on the organized private and
municipal camp and government legis-
lation and subsidies for camps. Other
subjects include a mountain youth camp
and a playground overnight survival
camping program.

Photo Credits

Page 60, courtesy the World Publish-
ing Company; 62, Miami-Metro News
Bureau; 65, Chidnefi; 68, from Curi-
osities of Animal Life by Maurice Bur-
ton, courtesy of Sterling Publishing
Company; 70-71, Saskatchewan Photo-
graphic Services; 72, Oliicial U.S. Air
Force Photos; 77, Children’s World
Theatre, New York City; 78 (and 82
right), Anita Fowler, Palo Alto, Cali-
fornia; 79, Memphis Commercial Ap-
peal; 88, P. J. Kaufiman, Creensburg.
Pennsylvania; 98, Bill WaIIen, Wilson
Photo Studio, Hazel Park, Michigan.

FEBRUARY, 1962

 

ENCOURAGE PRESERVATION
OF THE WORLD AROUND YOU

with

Indiana University’s Film Production

ADVENTURING IN CONSERVATION

15 min, sd, color, $150, b & w, $75

a Demonstrates responsibilities of campers

o Urges protection of our natural resources
a Portrays the interrelationships of nature
0 Shows young people learning proper procedures

Audiences:

Elementary and Junior High Science
School Camping Programs
Leadership Training Sessions

Drop us a cord today for further information:

AUDIO-VISUAL CENTER
INDIANA UNIVERSITY
BlOOMINGTON, INDIANA

 

THAR SHE BLOWS . . .

“HAVE A WHALE
OF A SUMMER"

That's the theme song
of The |962
PLAYGROUND SUMMER NOTEBOOK

Available May |

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

55

- Low Cost;Growing

Sport Programs for
Both Men and Women

 

W ( views on these a es. Comments
‘W’ P 8

of general interest are always wel
come. — The Editors.

 

Supervised Gokarting year. Our youngest drivers are fourteen

Sirs; years of age but twelve-year-olds are

As the head of a [recreation] depart- Eligible to lOin- Although our OldESt

For oclub, class or team. Requires ment that features gokart racing in its driver may be in his fifties he,” [3“ Y0“

minimum space and equment. program perhaps I can Shed some light he feels like twenty. We have many

Eqécétlngaawi grilétlcagtlégagfgnoé on the situation. The Nationa} Congress families in the club with a fine attitude

[mgr Eatiogal aossociationsh ' [of Parents and Teachers] and the Met- Oof SPOTISIUanShiPs safety, and competi-
Castello uniforms are KADOKAN ropolitan Safety Council (NYC) have “011-

  made for  issued stalelnenls [0 [he effect  We have had NianI‘ aCCidentS, as ill

the taller America” f'gure' gokarting is too dangerous and that it any aCliVilys hilt: as a comparison, one

FENCING T00! we are the breeds bad driving habits. T0 add soccer accident resulted in a higher

largest importers and manufactur- weight to the argument, they cite deaths lllediefd bi” than the total or a“ 01" 50'
ers of fencing equipment in the that occur in this sport. kart bills- HOW many aCCidcnlS (lid “'0
Americas. On July 2, 1961, in a column that I 113‘??? TWO"'l“ “VCIVE “"3th 0f eon"
Write for Free Catalogs write for our local newspaper, I ex- Penlive driVing- _

pressed my concern over improper rc- If these grouPS 00'1"]“13 [0 anaek '-
 porting of facts surrounding gokarting SOkarlmg by “5mg: emotional m3l110d5
Juno/KARATE & FENCING EQUIPMENT by many newspapers and organizations 313‘] by "0‘ analyzmg “"3 fads: Where i
30 Ejloth st" N, y_ 3, N, y, since 1914 . . . a report from Chicago had shown “'1” they {:50 “ex”. Little League base' ‘

thirty-three people fatally injured [dur- ball: the: NRA Junior Rlne Program: or

ing 1960] while riding in karts. sleigh-riding may be next- _

Another story reported that two chil- RENNETH 6- OROWLANDs dime!” 0f

dren crashed in their karts with one recreation: Riverheadt New York-

being killed and the other being severely * * * *

hurt, . . . Cokarts have no place in the ac-
UPON1 investigating both Stories a tivities of children and teenagers. Ad-

peculiar habit was noticed. I" both vocates ofkarting claimiinportantdriv-

items, reporters saw a Story on”, be. er education benefits are to be gained

came of the death of a child'or 001160 therefrom. Educators know this is con-
. , .

tively, children. Both of the stories "my to, the "9”" sliced, daring: and
were truwas far as they went My aggressweness 1n drivnig are too much
main concern is taking facts as just with us today and karting can do noth-
facts without bothering to analyze tlieni. mg 1”" PWmOte more Of these und‘35'r'

In the report from Chicago, did they able qualities. Beyondihe safety aspects
note that twenty-four of the thirty-three 0f,lhe Préblema there “Pertamly some"
deaths happened on public roads? thing basically wrong w1tl1aplnlosophy

was the“, a comparigon to qhow how which sets youngsters competing against
each other in engine-driven vehicles.

man we le were killed while roller- , , ,
  Skatiflgt rig]ng a Heyde, watcpskiing, Let them compete in swnnming, run-

ning, baseball, football, and other such

 

motor-boating, or walking? Did the

Stop wasting time recording inventory casts, story say that the nine remaining fatali- lggswlwgsih15:12?391::d3d0r511‘222‘i
handing out balls and paying top prices for low ties occurred wlnle the activ1ty was r i, e I V 3“ I Y
quality balls. Install this attractive, cost-Cutting supervised or Unsupervised?  exercnse.

DURAND C. YOUNG, Executive Secre-

tary, Sioux Falls Safety Council,
Sioux Falls, South Dakota.

m T°b'°l°""i‘3°"M°'°'N°w' In the second story, information

leased FREE ta responsible agencies an $10.00 glven dlSdOSEd that the two karts h"

depasitsubiectta refund. Trouble-free aperatian head 011.  tl'lai leave any one to.

assured—return machine for FREE repair.-Attrnc- wonder how two karts could be racing . H
tive hard wood and metal cabinet—7% 11 av: x is toward each other? No_ This was Best of its Iunrl

"mm high' 5"” '° immu' "dds ‘20 b‘m‘" another exam is of an unsu crvised ae- Sirs:
dispenses each for 10¢. Choice at 3 grades at p p

mp quality bolls. use pram to maintain and m llVliy that caused the-feelings against a EliECitEATION] Magazine is the best

place paddles, nets, etc. Na risk guarantee. Send " sport Instead of agalnst an adult who of Its kind and I eagerly look forward

for tree folder: "Stop Wasting Their Time.” should have been there. to its arrival each month. You should

The Riverhead Co-Kart Club, which feel proud of accomplishing so much

I. f. IWARDZ|K & (0., " is sponsored, organized, and supervised in such a cormparatively small magazine.

W'WWD by the Riverhead Recreation Depart- ROGER Ix. BROWN, Director of Rec-
SHENANDOAH PENNA- - , _ ment, has been in existence for over a reation, Aiken, South Carolina.

 

56 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. RECREATION

 

 - AS WE GO TO PRESS

‘\

 
  

IF MONEY CAN TALK, now’s the time.
I illions of dollars are going into state
rk deve10pment, two million dollars
" to a pilot study tackling the human
oblems of core cities, nearly seven
illion into fish and wildlife projects,
d a million into a study of juvenile
linqucncy:
1.‘ In New Hampshire, the legislature
l? as appropriated $9,000,000 for state
'1' ' ark deve10pment. Of this, three to five
illion are earmarked for new state
’1 arks. Otherwise top priority will be
"i .iven to income-producing develop-
” .. tents such as state camping areas and
state ski areas.

i' Oakland, California has been se-
ected as the pilot city in a nationwide

k ; ord Foundation program to attack the
“human problgms” of core cities in
rge metropolitan areas. Sharing in
he comprehensive, three-year, multi-
I agency program of community develop-
. cnt, Wlth special emphasis on asstmila-
ion of newcomer populations, is the

   
  
  
   
  
  
  

en.
re ,

.31! I
ll

  
 

It It

the delinquent is a minority.

FEBRUARY, 1962

 

Low Success for a Cool Generation

The Gallup Poll, commissioned by The Saturday Evening Post, recently con-
ducted an exhaustive survey on today’s youth. Over three thousand boys and
girls between the ages of fourteen and twenty-two were interviewed. Dr. George
Gallup and Evan Hill reported their findings in the year-end edition of The Post
(Dec. 23 &: 30) and summed up “the cool generation” as follows (we quote):

No ONE CAN SAY that the American youth is going to hell. He’s not. But he
is a pampcred hothouse plant and likes it that way. The beatnik is a rarity;

Our typical youth will settle for low success rather than risk high failure.

He has little spirit of adventure. He wants to marry early—at twenty-three
or twenty-four—after a college education. He wants two or three children
and a spouse who is “affectionate, sympathetic, considerate and moral”; rarely
does he want a mate with intelligence, curiosity or ambition. He wants a little
ranch house, an inexpensive new car, a
to watch TV each evening after the smiling children are asleep in bed.

He is a reluctant patriot who expects nuclear war in his time and would
rather compromise rather than risk an all-out war. He is highly religious yet
winks at dishonesty. He wants very little because he has so much and is un-
willing to risk what he has. Essentially he is quite conservative and cautious.
He is old before his timc; almost middle-aged in his teens.

While he has respect for education, he is critical of it-—-as he is about reli-
gion—and he is abysmally ignorant about the economic system that has made
him what he is and of the system that threatens it.

In general, the typical American youth shows few symptoms of frustration,
and is most unlikely to rebel or involve himself in crusades of any kind. He
likes himself the way he is, and he likes things the way thcy are.

The United States has bred a generation of nice little boys and girls who are
just what we have asked them to be and what we so frequently say they are not.

They will one day shape the nation. . .

job with a big company, and a chance

Oakland Recreation Department. The
role of ORD will be to promote recrea-
tion activities designed to teach social
and recreation skills which will prepare
individuals to function effectively in
varied groups; provide extended oppor-
tunities which can result in increased
interaction and contact among isolated
groups; and help concerned individuals
and groups prepare, through participa-
tion in grass-root citizen organizations,
for continued residential shifts in the

neighborhoods of Oakland.

0 Distribution of an additional $6,950,-
000 to states for restoration of fish and
wildlife projects for the year ending
June 30, 1962 has been announced by
the U.S. Department of the Interior.
This brings to $19,800,000 the total to
be apportioned, since $12,850,000 was
allotted on a preliminary basis last July
1 for such projects.

0 A million dollar grant from the Vin-

cent Astor Foundation will ftnance a
three-year pilot project to combat ju-

  
    
    
       
   
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
      

* *

venile delinquency at its source. United
Settlement Houses of New York will
conduct the project in eight gang-ridden
neighborhoods in New York City. The
program will attempt to dry up existing
gangs and divert their feeder gangs into
more constructive channels.

It It I' It

) FITNESS FAILURES: About half of the
twenty thousand school children partici-
pating in pilot programs for the Presi-
dent’s Council on Youth Fitness have
failed the minimum test for physical lit-
ness. The pilot programs, conducted
with boys and girls in grades four
through twelve, offer additional proof
American youngsters are not as fit as
they should be. The minimum test in-
cludes three exercises—pullups to mea-
sure arm and shoulder strength, situps
to measure flexibility and abdominal
strength, and squat thrusts to measure
agility. The pilot programs are being
conducted by local school authorities in
Muskogee and Midwest City, Okla-
homa; Belcourt, North Dakota; Spring-
field, Missouri; Savannah, Georgia; in
thirty-eight school districts in Pennsyl-
vania, under the direction of Pennsyl-
vania State University; and in U.S.
Army dependents’ schools in seven
countries and Okinawa.

P THE UNITED STATES TRAVEL SERVICE
will conduct a series of regional semi-
nars in New York, Chicago, San Fran-
cisco, Cheyenne, Charlotte, and Dallas
during February, March, and April to
explain the country’s recently instituted
program to attract foreign visitors and
to show communities how they can co-
operate with and benefit from this pro-
gram.

0 THE CENSUS CLOCK TICKS away stead-
ily in the lobby of the Department of
Commerce building in Washington and
records a new addition to our popula-
tion every ten and a half seconds. Plan-
ners try to keep pace as the clock ticks
on. Of importance to recreation plan-
ners are such facts as:

' The average life span is now about
seventy years.

' The average American’s work expect-
ancy has stretched to 42.3 years.

' There is a continued migration from

57

the large cities to the suburbs and the
farm population continues to dwindle.

- In the next five years the number of
youngsters aged fifteen through eight-
een will increase by about twenty-five
percent to a total of 14,000,000.

' The nineteen to twenty-four group,
Including married couples and college

students, will number 17,000,000 or
more by 1966.

' Older Americans (those over sixty-
five) will number about 19,000,000 by
1966 or twelve percent more than now.

' The labor force will grow by 7,000,-
000 in the next five years.

i A NEW CITY POST, to be known as the
Ofiice of Cultural Executive of the City
of New York, has been established by
Mayor Robert Wagner, who named
Robert W. Dowling, head of the City
Investing Company, to fill the post. The
position will carry no salary. Mr. Dow-
ling is also chairman of the Advisory
Committee on the Arts of the National
Cultural Center and addressed the open—
ing session of the 42nd National Rec-
reation Congress in Washington, D.C.

) TIIE FIFTEENTII AIR FORCE Youth Di-
rectors’ Workshop will be held at Dyess
Air Force Base, Texas, March 13-15,
1962. This is the first workshop of its
kind to be conducted in this command
and in the Strategic Air Connnand.
Dyess has been chosen as the host-
base because of its excellent youth pro-
gram with its attractive facilities, suc-
cessful use of volunteers, youth leader-
ship within the groups, and its strong
base-command support (see Page 72).
Representatives of fifteen Air Force
commands have been invited to attend.

 

A NATIONWIDE personnel and salary
study for the recreation field is
now under way. The study is being con-
ducted by the National Recreation As-
sociation National Advisory Committee
on Placement, in cooperation with the
Association’s District Advisory Com-
mittees and state recreation societies
and associations. This cooperative proj-
ect will make important information
available for use by state recreation so-
cieties and associations, the NRA Dis-
trict Advisory Committees. and the As-
sociation. A standardized salary and
personnel survey card assuring uniform
reporting will make possible state and
district comparisons of important sal-
ary and other personnel data. The sur-
vey card is being distributed to recrea-
tion and park executives by the NRA
district representatives and by rcpre-
sentatives of the state associations. Its
early return to the appropriate repre-

58

as “a furtherance of the cohesion of
the Strategic Air Command youth pro-
gram.”

THINGS YOU SHOULD KNOW

} TENNIS SCHOOL: The Second National
Barta-Leighton Tennis School for
Teachers will stress group methods for
teaching tennis. It will be held at Mary
Baldwin College on June 14-24, 1962.

For further information write to Mrs.
Mary Jane Donnalley, Physical Educa-
tion Department, Mary Baldwin Col-
lege, Staunton, Virginia.

) FOR CAMERA CLUBS ONLY: The Sec-
ond Annual “Anscochrome of the Year"
contest is now open and closes March
15. For contest rules and information
write to James McMillion, Coordinator,
Camera Club Services, Ansco, Bing-
hamton, New York.

} OUR C0:th is the theme of the 16th
Annual Great Lakes Park Training In-
stitute to be held at Potawatomi Inn,
Pokagon State Park. Angola, Indiana.
February 19-23. For further informa-
tion write to Dr. Garrett C. Eppley, De-
partmcnt Of Recreation. UPPER Build-
ing, lndiana University. Bloomington.

k Two RETIREMENTS. Two veteran rec-
reation leaders retired recently:

MR5. WILLIAM BARKER of the Fort
\Vorth, Texas, Recreation Department
retired after thirty-five years service.
Theoretically she was the department’s
ofIice secretary and accountant but ac-
livities “beyond duty’s call” included
organizing and directing baseball, ten-
nis, swimming, football, aml horseshoe
teams; setting up games, picnics, and

NATIONWIDE STUDY

sentatives will be appreciated.

The survey will cover salaries, work-
ing conditions. and related personnel
items. The NRA’s National Advisory
Committee on Placement, formerly
chaired by Frank Evans of Maplewood,
New Jersey, and currently chaired by
Alan Heil, superintendent of recreation
and parks in Montelair, New Jersey, has
been concerned with these problems for
several years. The committee has de-
signed the standardized salary and per-
sonnel survey card which has been
reviewed by research experts, by the
Association’s National and District Ad-
visory Committees and by representa-
tives of state recreation societies and
associations. It has been revised and
refined through many committee mcet-
ings and tested in a pilot study in the
NRA’s Mid-Atlantic District. Copies of
the district report are available upon

parties; working out plans for drama
clubs and choral groups and teaching
various crafts. Her future plans include
volunteer work at a hospital, member-
ship in a garden club, reading, paint,
ing, and helping her church. I

HARLAN S. KENNEDY, director and.
secretary of the Board of Recreation
Commissioners in Summit, New Jersey,
retired on January 1 after twenty—eight
years of service. He was Summit’s first]

director of recreation, appointed by the'
board in 1934.

k U.S. PUBLICIST #1, Edward L. Ber-
nays, a National Recreation Association
Board member, observed his seventieth
birthday recently celebrating the new
edition of his classic volume, C rysta-Ih'e-
I'ng Public Opinion (Liveright).

  

) TIIE 1961 MEDAL AWARD WINNERS of
the American Scenic and Historic Pres- l
ervation Society include many names
well known in the recreation field. The
Gold, Silver, and Bronze Cornelins
Amory Pugsley Medals were given
respectively to Allen T. Edmunds, re-
gional chief, Division of Recreation Re-
sources Planning, National Park Serv-
ice. Philadelphia; Charles Alvin De-
Turk, director, Parks and Recreation
Resources Agency, Sacramento, Cali-
fornia; and Frank Cass Mclnnis, direc-
tor, Detroit Zoological Park. The
George McAneny Historic Preservation
Medal went to Mrs. Fanny Hanna
Moore Of Convent. New Jersey, mother
of National {screation Association
Board Member Paul Moore. .Ir. Mrs.
Arthur Hays Sulzbcrger of New York
City, an NRA honorary member. rc-
ceivcd a citation of merit.

 

request from the National liecreation
Association’s Recreation Personnel
Service.

Much of the credit for the design and
printing of the survey card and the pilot
study goes to Mr. Evans, who coordi-
nated all activities. The New Jersey
Rccreation Association was especially
helpful financially aan otherwise in giv-
ing Mr. Evans and the project full sup- I
port. The Placement Committee and the
Mid-Atlantic District Advisory Com-
mittec were also helpful, and the follow-
ing served as chairmen for their respec-
tive states in collecting information:
William Foley, New York; Donald I
Joyce, New Jersey; Donald Kuntz,
Pennsylvania; Warren G. Leddiek,
Maryland; and James Tyler, Delaware.
Fred R. Marder, director of the student
center at New Jersey State College in
Union. tabulated the statistics.

RECREATION

5

MY PHILOSOPHY
OF RECREATION

’ [oseph E. Curtis

PERIIAPS, as I approach my forties, I
am aging and growing crotchety.
Some will call me “old-fashioned” be-
cause I find that things of the past, the
simple ways of life, the informal, un-
sophisticated'mingling of people which
characterized our society of fifty to sev-
_ _ enty—five years ago, are among the things
:which appeal to me and which I must include in my concept
pf recreation. The development of greater local color in a
pommunity, the stimulation of pride in the hometown, the
:preservation of that which is good from the old, balanced
f\with that which is good from the new, these seem important
to me and appear sound. This may fall short of deserving
the label “philosophy” but it is a deep-seated attitude of
mine, bearing upon and flavoring my every professional
thought and act.

Examples of “oldies” which I consider too precious to
discard are the concert in the park, informal community
singing (Bravo, Mitch Miller!) , the church supper, the cas-
ual stroll by groups of people visiting points of interest, the
“oldfashioned” picnic or cookout, the tug-o-war, cornhusk-
ing bee, bicycle trip, oyster roast, and the atmosphere of
the local political beefsteak party. These events, by the very
fact of their contrast with today’s and tomorrow’s high-
speed, prefab, automated, chrome and fiberglass world, offer
precious relief and a welcome change of pace. It is not so
much the activity but the manner in which it is conducted
that tickles my fancy. A homespun box lunch enjoyed by a
scout group in a grove of trees at dusk, winding up with
stories and songs around the campfire smacks more of Amer-
icana and the “good life” than does a slick, catered supper
for the same group in a glossy restaurant to the tune of
canned jukebox music.

Aren’t there times, too, even in recreation, when the rum-
pled hair, faded blue jeans and the ubiquitous T-shirt are
out of place? Have we forgotten the sparkle added to a
dance, a party, or a songfest by a little girl in starched party
dress and bow in hair or a boy, crisply neat in white shirt,
shiny clean face and wet-combed hair?

 

RECREATION PROGRAM schedules, of course, must realisti-
cally accommodate new and more contemporary in-
terests as well, but not to the exclusion of time-tested and

 

MR. CURTIS is commissioner of recreation in White Plains,
New York. See his earlier plea “Let’s De-Sophisticate,”
RECREATION, September 1959.

FEBRUARY, 1962

“Flavor the new with the Old”

ever-attractive hiking, rowing, mass singing, cheering, and
working together; the designing and building of objects
with rude, spartan materials; the caring for animals; the
hauling of wood; the smell of charcoal; things that conjure
up feelings of warmth, friendship, fun! Carol singing on
cold nights, folk dancing in peasant costumes, the barn
dance, a birthday for an eighty-year old—these make the
world go round!

A recent incident will illustrate how easily old customs
can be warped. Last summer at Lake Luzerne, New York,
I attended an outdoor concert in a classic park bandshell on
a lovely evening. Sadly, the dozens of benches which sur-
rounded the bandshell were almost totally vacant. On the
roads and streets nearby, however, there were some fifty
automobiles parked in which families and elderly people
sat. Each couple or family was insulated from the others
by walls of glass and steel. At the end of each number, in-
stead of hand clapping, the raucous blaring of dozens of
automobile horns signalled the audience’s approval. How
much more natural it would have been for these scores of
peOple to have been seated around the shell, talking, clap-
ping, socializing, and meeting one another?

Travelers from abroad often comment on the difference
between American smalltown streets and those of foreign
countries. Elsewhere in the world, streets are crowded with
people walking singly, in pairs and in groups, talking, watch-
ing the antics of itinerant performers, listening to speeches
and “gawking.” American streets, except for downtown
metropolitan areas, are usually empty of people, and all mov—
ing traHic is on wheels. I would be delighted to see this
trend reversed and am pleased that urban-renewal peOple
are attempting to recreate attractive, walkable and “human”
marketplaces in our American downtown areas.

I SEE NOTHING CONTRADICTORY between this thinking and
our “giant steps” forward in science. We don’t play or
relax with atomic piles, radar screens, rocket ships, or auto-
mated industry. The very earthiness and simplicity of our
old ways and customs will make them sought after increas-
ingly by Americans whose business and professional lives
are already on the escalator of mass production, electronic
computation, and super-eHiciency. I shudder at the plight
of the businessman who, twenty-five years from today, leaves
his air-conditioned, remotevlighted, aluminum-and-fiber-
glass-furnished, electronically-systematized oilice, travels
twenty minutes by air-conditioned, aluminum-and-fiberglass

monorail coach to his home, and then looks forward to six
Continued on Page 100

59

 

Keeping Campfires Burning

In Egypt, the Supreme Council for Youth Welfare operates
camps slanted in various directions. Recreation camps, pub-
lic service camps, social education camps, and leadership
training camps are scattered all over the country. In Baltinl,
an international workeamp is being organized, with youth
from Yugoslavia, Germany, and the United States partici-
pating. It is hoped that an exchange of views and experi-
ences among the young persons will contribute to interna-
tional friendship and understanding.

Camping problems here and abroad seem to be rather
similar, rcports Rea Agnew of the Camping Council. We
can’t see the trees for the tents and can’t watch the fireflies
for the electric lights. While France does not have large na-
tional and other government parks corresponding to ours.
largc campgrounds acconnnodating thousands of campers
have been developed, particularly along the Riviera coast.
Writing editorially in the October 1951 Camping Voyages.
publisher Jean Sussc said regarding French campground
conditions: “. . . This past summer. everywhere. and par-
ticularly on the seacoasts. campers wcre squeezed together
like sardines in a box in the organized campgrounds. By
the opposite token. it has been said that in a number of
places here and there on the Atlantic Coast there were still
vast areas where camping was permitted freely and where
the isolated camper could be perfectly peaceful. Similar con-
ditions obtained on the Mediterranean coast if one remained
at a distance of three or four kilometers from the sea. With
these conditions confronting us. there are even some today
who are considering the creation of immense camps equip-
ped with all sorts of modern contrivances (somewhat along
the lines of the British Butlin camps).

“We do not hold with this point of view. If one quits the
town it is for a bit of relaxation. However. relaxation can-
not take place in campgrounds accomniodating two thou-
sand to ten thousand tent and trailer campers. Moreover.
the creation of such camping areas reduires substantial de-
velopment of lands. water and sanitation systems.

60

Planned with fey imagination and delight and constructet
in indestructible reinforced concrete,

this labyrinth play town in Zurich, Switzerland
enchants children. ( Photograph from

The New Architecture of Europe by G. E. Kidder SrnithJi

“If it is absolutely necessary to create some fully devel-
oped campgrounds on sites with ideal locations, we do not
think the correct solution is to concentrate large numbers
of campers together in one area. We are convinced that the
main effort should be directed toward a decentralization and
dispersion of campers. If hordes of campers gather together
in certain areas it is because these areas are well-known. It
should suffice to publicize intensiver other camping grounds

which are well located amidst desirable recreation oppor-
tunities.”

The Children’s Hour

A Child Hall in Tokyo, Japan, projected by the Metro-
politan Child Hall Construction Committee, is scheduled for
completion in two years. According to the journal of the
Tokyo metropolitan government, the hall will be “the chil-
dren’s palace equipped with all things mobile, sounding.
and beautiful.” Planned in commemoration of Crown Prince
Akihito’s marriage in 1959, it will be a place where young-
sters can play and learn with their friends arid families, can
satisfy their curiosities for science, and can enjoy them-
selves through movies, drama, music, painting. and haml-
eraft. The five-story ball will be built in Mitake Park and
will contain electric and woodworking shops, reference
room for sports. science study room. arts exhibition room.
library, music hall, handcraft room, auditorium. perform-

ance hall. audio visual room. planetarium. and herb stud}
room.

   

  

USSIANS get tense and nervous too. They run for buses
R and the subway, overwork, under-rest, ovcreat, and
are showing a rising rate of heart disease and high blood
pressure. As in the United States, the aim of treatment
is to get the Russian to get more recreation, eat a proper
diet, cut down on fatty foods, and take more protein.
—Da. ZIGMAS YANUSEKEVICIIIUS
Professor of Medicine

Kaunas Medical Institute, Leningrad

    
      
   
   
 
    

 

RECREATIOA

 

0f Alps and Islands

An artificial island to be constructed in Lake Zurich in
Switzerland will become a cultural center with theaters.
entertainment. places, and spacious gardens facing the his-
toric “Old Town." thcels'ffoi fifty thousand people and
parking lots for‘seventeen thousand cars will be contained

within a shopping disgict with two rows of skyscrapers and
shop-lined plazas. Also planned is a hotel town for five
thousand guests. A fogi‘on)ile lake-side promenade for pedes-
-trians only" will girdle ihe island.

a.
7

Getting into the Swim

An exchange rccreatiqii worker. American Angie Erusha,
recently reported from ~S__weden on the extensive nationwide
learn-to-swim program in that country every summer." The
importance of knowing how to swim in a country almost
totally surroundcd by water is obvious. Last summer marked
the twenty-eighth year of the swimming trials for citizens.
Up to now, three’million Swedes have swum their two hun-
dred meters. the distance necessary to earn a citizen’s swim
mark. The program has become almost an institution in
Sweden with two hundred thousand last year alone qualify-
ing for the mark. Anyone who wishes to attempt the two
hundred meter swim can train at any of the areas provided.
Training areas were organized at fifteen hundred different
clubs and private organizations last year. There is no speed
test of any kind and citizens can train as much and as long
as they wish.

Aid to African Parks

The American Conservation Association will give $10,000
in emergency funds to the Republic of the Congo for the
preservation of wildlife and the maintenance of national
parks. The association, a charitable foundation, is sup-
ported by Laurance S. Rockefeller and members of the
Rockefeller family. The conservation group said the grant
would go for the salaries of guards in the park areas. if:

FEBRUARY. 1962

BROTHERHOOD WEEK
February 18-25

 

Roller skaters in. Cairo, Egypt, put in some real practice
as they prepare for the big event.

the national roller skating championship matches.
Recreation is really rolling in the land of the pyramids.

 

Water polo is among the activities sponsored by the
Supreme Council for Youth Welfare in Cairo.

This night game was portal (1 university youth

festival program. The council is involved in many pro jects.

()1

THE AB ODE OF THREE L 0 VE

Miami’s new Japanese garden symbolizes

love of country, fellow man, and work

Left, Mrs. K. Nishioka, wife of a Japanese doctor serving
his residence at a Miami hospital, performed the tea rit-
ual to highlight the dedication. of Miami’s new teahonse.

Belowfivisitors stroll over the zigzag bridge which spans
the thirty-eight-inchlagoon in the Sai-Ai-An Garden. In
the foreground, one of the seven handcarved stone lanterns.

-1‘

- ~ .
y

3" . ‘
I. r "

. I. - ‘ I“ . . \x f, ‘f r-
. . l ‘h‘. 4" q
. i, » J!§:2.  g! 

 

Oriental costumes, occulental hairdos- -stx former resi‘
dents of Japan non living in the Miami area performed a
colorful dance from their native land during the dedication.

 

62 RECREATION

and all three are embodied in the
Japanese garden he recently pre-
--nted to the city of Miami. 0n the
1inted arch of the teahouse in the gar-
den bangs a sign naming it San-Ai-A n,
1" 1e abode of three loves—love of coun-
_ y, fellow man, and work. The name
‘ nbodies Mr. Ichimura’s precept of life.
‘ The garden already is one of the most
[ opular spots in the area as tourists and
iasidents have flooded the new attrac-
-t on. The facility, now open to the pub-
 0 daily from 9AM to 6PM, bridges the
( ultures of East and West and gives vis-
i:ors a good insigbt into the character
if the Japanese people—their love for
~1ature and their desire to get as close
to it as possible. The venture, in the
hadows of Miami’s famous skyline, is
a joint effort of Mr. Ichirnura, a Tokyo
industrialist, and the city of Miami. It
is located in Watson Park, just off the
MacArthur Causeway.

The garden (chi-niwa in Japanese)
has been established on a 175-by-250
foot plot of land in the north end of the
park. Its features are an exquisite tea-
house (chashitsu), an arbor (azumaya) ,
seven beautifully sculptured stone lan-
terns as well as a lagoon and waterfall.

Dismantled materials costing nearly
$40,000, were shipped from Tokyo by
Mr. Ichimura. To assure the garden’s
authenticity, he also sent six carpenters
and three gardeners—all highly re-
spected in J apan—’—to build the garden
in cooperation with the Miami Parks
Department employes. Some one hun-
dred city workers lent their talents to
the project. Kingo Sakamoto, Japan’s
foremost landscape architect, also was
dispatched here. He designed and su-
pervised (to the nth degree) the garden
construction.

Mr. Ichimura’s donations are his way
of showing his gratitude of Miami,
which he visited and “fell in love with”
five years ago. In addition, it is his
fervent prayer that the garden will fur-
ther understanding between the United
States and Japan. In the past five years,
the Japanese industrialist has also pre-
sented to Miami a smaller garden, a
wooden foot bridge, a three-hundred
year old stone lantern, a Shinto gate,

  
  
 
  
    
  
    
  
  
  

I [‘nase LOVES has Kiyoshi lchi1n ura

FEBRUARY, 1962

BROTHERHOOD WEEK - February 18-25

 

and five hundred orchid trees, as well
as an eight-ton, eight-foot-tall granite
statue of Hotei, chubby god of prosper-
ity and longevity, a $6,000 piece of ar-
tistry. The smiling Hotei, with a bag
of gold on his right shoulder, greets
visitors as they prepare to tour the fa-
cility.

At the foot of Hotei is a bronze
plaque, set in granite, with an eleven-
line message from Mr. Ichimura to the
people of Miami. “Japan has many dif-
ferent types of gardens. Miami’s incor-
porates the best of each,” architect Sak-
amoto explained.”

LET’S TOUR the facility: After enter-

ing through a passage, with the
American and Japanese flags flying side
by side, one finds two six-foot stone

lanterns standing guard over the wood- .

en bridge. After traversing it, one en-
counters the majestic arbor, with its
symmetrical lattice work and purple
copper dome, which Mr. Ichimura
hopes will become a retreat for scholars.

One turns rigbt and follows the gravel
path that leads to the zigzag wooden
bridge,‘allowing visitors to cross the la-
goon. The reason, according to the Jap-
anese, for the zigzag bridge is that it
causes one to slow down, pause, and
enjoy the scenery. The patina of age
and antiquity is prized—the reason why
the wood on the span has been charred
(by a torch) to remove its new appear-
ance. Just to the right of the bridge is
a dry stream with more than a thousand
ornate rocks and plants. A graceful,
slightly arched one-piece, stone-slab
bridge spans it.

The rock garden comes next. The ele-
ments here express rhythm as vertical
and horizontal lines are contrasted. The
eighteen inch-deep lagoon contains nu-
merous water plants. More than twenty-
five thousand gallons of water are
pumped in daily. Water flows down the
irregular rocks stacked above the la-

 

There is destiny which makes as
brothers;
None goes his way alone.

EDWIN MARKHAM

 

goon to provide the waterfall. The five-
foot “mountain”—probably the only
one in Miami—is at the brink of the
pond.

The shoreline of the lagoon, with jut-
ting rocks, is shaped roughly in the
form of the Japanese written character
for heart or mind (hokoro The lagoon
and waterfall are to inject a feeling of
life and movement into an otherwise
quiet or passive scene.

We next head south and stroll to the
ceremonial teahouse made of flawless
bamboo, cedar, and pine wood—with
no knots and put together without a
single nail. The ingredients of the roof
are slate and plywood. All the wood
was handpicked. None was painted as
the Japanese do not want to improve
upon nature. They want to be a part
of it!

THE TEAIIOUSE is not a place for mak-

ing merry but a site for detaching
oneself from his everyday problems and
pondering the beauties of art and nature.
Near the entrance to the house is the
waiting area (machia) with a bench,
where one stays until called by the host
to participate in the ceremony. Then
one proceeds to the stone basin (tsuhu-
bai) to rinse one’s hands. This is sym-
bolic of purification.

Then there is a long, narrow path
along a row of stepping stones (tobi-
ishi) to the teahouse. This walk is in-
dicative of detachment from everyday
problems. When he reaches the tea-
house, he removes his shoes on a special
stone. He then stoops low and crawls
into the teahouse through a small open-
ing, showing humility and humbleness
in the presence of the All-Mighty. A
twisted shield of dark brown hemp pre-
vents nonparticipants from seeing the
crawling process. The entire teahouse
area is surrounded by a bamboo fence.

The elegant lanterns are so strategi—
cally located that they bring geometri-
cal lines and proportion to the garden.
Everything in the garden is based on a
triangle—the Japanese way of life. The
triangle represents unity in the lowest
form (earth) to man (next highest) to
the ultimate—Diety—represented by
tall trees. #

63

RECREATION
AND THE
SISTER CITY
PROGRAM

 

Keith Macdonald

Lei] Njornew'h

Recreation, forms a link of brotherhood - -- '- 

Keith A. Macdonald

It seems improbable that we, or any nation or group 0/ na-
tions, wit! attain peace untii each man, in his own mind and
heart, treats ail men. as his brothers—EDDIE CANTOR.

PRUCE TREES and Yo-yo’s, tape recordings and postage
stamps all play a part in furthering the friendship en-
joyed by Vallejo, California, and its sister city, Trond-

heim, Norway. The sister city program now involves T70
U.S. cities and their foreign counterparts.

The sister city idea was started in 1956 by President
Eisenhower at the ,\Vhite House when he called together
approximately fifty leaders in business, education, and mu-
nicipal government to ask their participation in the People
to People Program. Said President Eisenhower, “Greater

understanding among nations on a people to people, as well

as.government to government basis, is a necessary part of
our clTorts to remove the misunderstandings that hinder
disarmament, the building of a safeguarded peace and the
strengthening of freedom.” ,

Mainly through the eiTorts of the American Municipal
Association, the Town Alhliation Program has spread across
the country, so that' by the spring-of 1959, seventy-seven
American cities and many foreign countries had joined in
this program. By December of 1960. 130 American cities
from thirty-three states became active. The latest figures
from the American Municipal Association reveal that nearly
170 cities are taking part today and more will follow as soon
as arrangements can be. made.

A town afliliation comes about when citizens of two com-
munities anywhere in the world decide through representa-
tives to get to know one another by a continuing exchange
of ideas, visits, and correspondence. In the process they will
surely discover what unites is (treater than what separates
the human family.

Some cities have taken a sister city which has the same

 

MR. MACDONALD is executive director of the Greater Vallejo
Recreation District in California.

 

BROTHERHOOD WEEK ° February 18-25

name as theirs: Lodi, California, and Lodi, Italy; Monrovia.

California, and Monrovia, Liberia; Bristol, Connecticut, and

Bristol, England; Versailles, Kentucky, and Versailles.

France; Scarborough, Maine, and Scarborough, England:

Calais, Maine, and Calais, France; Montevideo, Minnesota.

and Montevideo, Uruguay; Cheltenham. Pennsylvania, andI
Cheltenham, England.

In July of 1959, the City Council of Vallejo set into mo-
tion a committee to seek out a sister city for the purpose of
swapping ideas and establishing and maintaining a cultural-
sociological exchange as part of a federally sponsored pro-
gram aimed at developing friendly foreign relations on a
personal-municipal basis. Within less than a year consider-
able correspondence had taken place between the American
Municipal Association; Town Afliliation Committee, and
nine prospective cities which were under consideration. Fol-
lowing a vote by interested citizens of Vallejo, the city of
Trondheim, Norway. was selected. Trondheim accepted. and
the wheels were set in motion for the exchange.

Tms PROGRAM olTers a wide Open, held for reel-eaters and
recreation. Our departments, whether they be city.
county, special districts, townships, regional areas, or states.
fit right into the heart of the program, particularly if your
city is one of the 170 cities which has an active sister city
program.

Your eliorts could well start with a letter and picture ex-
change and could well develop into something far greater
and more meaningful. Richard Oakland, director of Town
Afhliations, has this to say to those in the recreation field.
“A great many cities now exchange results of sporting com-
petitions, such as swimming matches, track and held events.
although one must be very careful to make sure that each
city is using the same measurements and timing.”

The Pittsburgh Pirates helped start a baseball club with
the children in Bilbao, Spain, Pittsburgh’s sister city. York.
Pennsylvania, likewise started a baseball team in Arles.
France. Many cities send recreation equipment so that the

 

R I-ICRt-l.-\TIOI\

nildren in their sister cities can enjoy the same benefits
lrough recreation as their American counterparts.

XS PART OF the Vallejo-Trondheim exchange, I wrote to
a my counterpart, the recreation director in Trondheim,
'orway, to establish communication between our respective
.ties and governing bodies. I followed this with one hun-
red 8” -by-10" glossy photos which showed a good cross-
‘ action of our recreation program and parks; each was prop-
rly labeled with a short description of the activity or scene.
To introduce Trondheim to an American-style contest we
gnt my counterpart in our sister city some Yo-yo’s, instruc-
.l‘on sheets, extra strings, award ribhons, and a sweater for
ie first-place winner. The sweater was a sleeveless white
nit with the word “Trondheim” stitched across the front, a

.' iuncan Yo-yo contest shield award placed beneath the name

,  the city and a red, white, and blue shield with the words.

fVallejO, All-America City” on the right shoulder.

When the Honorable Leif Hjornevik, city manager 01
Trondheim, visited us, I had an opportunity to talk with him
and set into action future exchange of letters, tapes, pictures,
and art and craft items. While in Vallejo, he dedicated a
“Sister City Tree,” a Norway spruce, in pne of the parks.
It is small, but later it will grow into a large and beautiful
shade tree.

In the future we hope that tape recordings of our summer
bands and junior symphony concerts can be forwarded, to-
gether with art and craft items made on our playground.
The Grandma Moses Art Class will contribute one of its best
pictures and the Gem and Mineral Society, Stamp Club, and
Camera Club will also help in fostering the people-to-people
program by instituting an exchange of collector’s items.

For further information on the sister city program, write
Richard Oakland, Director, Town Affiliation, American Mu-

nicipal Association, 1612 K Street, N.W., Washington 6.
DC. if:

Grace Walker, creative recreation
specialist on the National Recreation
Association staji, was loaned to the
' 4-H Clubs for a series of leadership

workshops in. Jamaica. This is her re-
port of the experience.

1

Grace Walker

NOT MANY ex-
periences are
more stimulating
than making a visit
to a foreign coun-
try, especially
when one has the
opportunity to
come in close contact with tllc people of
that country through work and play.
These were the thoughts of Dr. Earl
Jones and myself as we moved among
the people of Jamaica, West Indies.
Our special mission was to conduct
courses for designated personnel work-
ing in a people-to-people program and
situation. Plans for'the program were
in the hands of a special committee
representing the Ministry of Agricul-
ture, the Ministry of the Welfare Board,
and the Cooperative Extension Service.
Each of these ministries has for its ob-
jective intensive and long-range crea-
tive programs for children, youth, and
adults.
High up in the hills within easy

 

FEBRUARY. 1962

 

,. reative Recreation in Jamaica

reach of the Caribbean, we met our
first group of professional 4-H workers
and their officials. It was an articulate
group with many skills, real compe-
tency, and wonderful enthusiasm. How-
ever, as is often the case with those of
us who work closely with people,
greater insight and deeper understand-
ing were needed to heighten our ef-
fectiveness. The course, therefore,
aimed at meeting these people’s needs
and

ideals, the psychological approach to

through human-relation ideas
how we learn and develop. This course
was presented by Dr. Earl Jones, pro-
fessor of psychology and social sciences
at the University of Costa Rica. I pre-
sented a creative recreation course deal-
ing with activity, the doing approach in
a learning, developing program.

These approaches really represent the
two sides,of the same coin: one, the
documented theory; the other, the me-
chanics, skills, methods through illus-
trated and demonstrated activities. Ex-
ploring the what, why, how in both
fields, the courses attempted to point
out the objectives (ends) and the activi-
ties (means) whereby one shapes and
develops one’s program.

Our visit was not all work. Often a
people reveal more of themselves
through their play and art forms than
in any other form of expression. The

morning on which native Jamaican
music was sung and taped was our
learning period. We saw the vigor, en-
thusiasm, freedom with which they
sang of their experiences. Calypso
rhythm, syncopated rhythm like and
unlike ours, strange melodic intervals
suggestive of the East in major and
minor modes, gave a native character
to the music.

It was exciting to see how the people
have built for themselves a community
theater which has caught in architec—
tural forms thc characteristics of Ja-
maica. Pounds and pennies, skilled and
unskilled labor, even the small flower-
ing plant which initiated the landscap-
ing project were gifts, every gift demon-
strating the people’s interest. The com-
munity theater bill presented while we
were there was, I understand, typical-—
2: folk play and the classic Antigone.

The famous native Arts and Crafts
Market is another place where one sees
the flowering of much of this artistic
power. If attracted to rare and beauti-
ful wood and wood carving, one would
be wise to purchase a return ticket be-
fore visiting this market or perhaps one
just would not have the money to get
home.

One came away with the feeling that
the present development of all such cre-
ative programs, hoth special and'gen-
eral, was but a small potential of what
can and will be accomplished by such a
gifted and creative people. #

65

A Yardstick of Growth

Per capita expenditures reflect development of recreation fiel

Muriel E. McGann

r I ‘HE TREMENDOUS GROWTH of pub-

TABLE I TOTAL CURRENT OPERATING EXPENDITURES

Per Capita Expenditures

lic recreation in the United
States since its inception late in

 

 

Population Group No. of
the nineteenth century is a phenomenon Cities Highest Lowest Average Median
familiar to all recreation leaders. Be- Under 5.000 $72-86 5 .62 $8.10 $4.30
ginning as a field of activity concerned 5.000— 9399 14.18 .63 3.57 2.87
primarily with playgrounds and play 10.000— 24.999 21.54 .45 3.24 2.65
leadership for children, the movement 25’000— 49.999 16-16 .45 3.22 2.77
has expanded in the past half century 50.000— 99.999 147 20.51 .33 3.78 3.01
to encompass leisure_time programs for 100,000—249,999 68 14.58 .39 4.11 3.39
all ages and such special groups as the 250.000 8: Over 46 10.13 1.04 4.64 4.46
ill and handicapped, the armed forces, T°t31 1.033 572-36 5 ~33 $3.72 $2.88
and workers in all types of business and
industry.

TABLE 1] NUMBER OF CITIES IN SELECTED PER CAPITA

Through the years, the National
Recreation Association’s Recreation
Yearbook has been one of the most ac-

EXPENDITURE BRACKETS

. $1.00 $1.50 $2.00 $3.00 $4.00 $5.00 $6.00 $7.00 $8.00 $9.00 $10.00
Population Group Under to to to to to to to to

 

 

 

 

 

curate instruments available for meas- $1.00 $1.49 $1.99 $2.99 $3.99 $4.99 $5.99 $6.99 $7.99 $8.99 $9.99 Over
uring this growth. No other publication Under 5.000 1 __2— —T T _—8— _T T _4— _2_ _ “T— “—
affords the continuity or the wealth of 5.000— 9.999 d T — — T V —11_ —11— —9— —2— H

statistical information provided by the 10.000— 24399 21 HF” _ _? _? T T 7 T w — —
Yearbook. The figures it contains, and 25.000— 49.999 s 18 _ — —56_ :7 —26_ T —10— —7— — ——
the studies based on these figures, give 50.000— 99399 15 — ?,_?|—13_—i3—.Tl—5—_——
a clear picture of the progress from the 100300—2493” 6 *— Tl— — — —'—

first community playgrounds to the
modern municipal recreation and park
service.

ln 1911, when the concept of a tax-
supported leisurc-time program for all
the people had occurred to only a fcw
farsighted leaders, the Yearbook mere-
ly gathercd data relating to the number
of playgrounds operated, playground
leaders employed, and expenditures in
connection with playgrounds. Not until
1928 were community swimming pools,
beaches, golf courscs, and other such
facilities provided in sufficient numbers
to warrant their inclusion in the Recrea-
tion Yearbook. Finally, in 1951, the
increasing use of parks for activc rec-
reation and the trend toward integrat-
ing recreation and park administration
resulted in the puhlication of the first

*Available from 1110 NaIional Recrealion As-
socialion, 8 Wesl 81h Streel, New York 11.
$5.50.

MRS. MCCANN is assistant director of
research for the National Recreation
A ssociati on.

66

 

250.000 81: Over ——
Total 67

 

 

——-r

No. of

Population Group
Cities

Under 5.000
5.000— 9.99?—
10.000— 24.999
25.000— 49.999
50.000— 99.999
100.000—249.999
250.000 & Over

Total

Recreation and Park Yearbook, which
included all park acreage, employees,
and expenditures. This expansion in
scope naturally caused an enormous in-
crease in total expcnditures over the
amounts reported in previous years.

I I ‘HE RECENT PUBLICATION of the 1961
Recreation and Park Yearbook‘
Inakes ten-year comparisons possible

 

.I
l
8|

ill“.
.I
l
l
l

t
—————-————————-.———.——————.—

 

 

Average Median
$3.30 $2.34
1.77 1.45
1.36 1.15
1.17 1.03
1.08 .94
1.04 .89
1.16 1.01
$1.40 $1.15

and affords an opportunity for Incasure-
ments of growth over that period. The
yardstick used in the study discussed
here is per capita expenditure for cur-
rent operations (including capital
items) and for leadership salaries and
wages alone. The percentage of increase
in the past ten years in the amount of
money so spent is unmistakable proof
of the growing public demand for rec-

RECREATION

 
  
   
   

'rEation and park serv1ce. Especially
uyteworthy is the fact that in munici-
prllities of one hundred thousand and:
Cher, average per capita spending for
tadership salaries and wages has- more
t1 [an doubled. The largest cities also
r :corded the greatest average increase
i1 per capita expenditures for all cur-
rant recreation and park Operation.

: The 1961 Per Capita Expenditures
ttudy, like its predecessors, is based
1 11 reports received from cities employ-
iag full-time, year-round recreation
laadership, and covers 1,088 munici-
l-alities; counties are not included. A
1ew cities which employed full-time
léadership had to be omitted because
the reporting agency did not give either
ugxpenditures data or a population esti-
tnate, and no offlcial census figures
-;ould be obtained.

Table I shows, for cities in various
population groups, the highest and low-
list per capita expenditures for all rec-
reation and park services, as well as the
average and median for each group and
for the 1,088 cities as a whole. Although
there has been substantial growth in
the amounts spent for recreation and
parks in the past ten years, only in the
population group under five thousand
does the average exceed the amount
which has generally been considered
necessary to provide adequate service.

The lowest per capita expenditures
reported obviously are utterly insuffi-
cient; the fact that these figures were
submitted by cities employing full-time,
year-round leadership is a clear indica-
tion of the need for further education
and “missionary” work by national and
state agencies concerned with all phases
of recreation. On the other hand, the
highest per capita figures provide grati-
fying evidence that cities of any size can
and do allocate sufficient funds to assure
excellent recreation and park ‘service.

In Table II the cities in each popula-
tion group are arranged in ascending
per capita expenditure brackets. As in
1950 and 1955, the $2.00-$2.99 bracket
contains the largest number of cities:
30% in 1950, 25% in 1955 and 23%
in 1960. However, in the last ten years
the majority of cities have shifted from
below this bracket to the ranges above.
In 1950, 42% of the reporting cities
spent less than $2.00 per capita for
recreation and parks; 28% spent $3.00

FEBRUARY, 1962

TABLE IV

NUMBER OF CITIES IN SELECTED PER CAPITA

LEADERSHIP EXPENDITURE BRACKETS

$.50 $.75
Population Group Under to to
$.50
Under 5.000
5.000— 9.999
10.000— 24.999
25.000— 49.999
50.000— 99.999
100.000—249.999
250.000 8: Over

Total

 

$1.00
to - to to to to &

$1.50 $2.00 $2.50 $3.00 $4.00

$1.99 $2.49 $2.99 $3.99

TABLE V PER CAPITA EXPENDITURES, 1950, 1955, 1960

Average Total Current Expenditure

Average Leadership Expenditure

——-——.——_ ————.——-

——————-—n———

Population Group 1950 1955 1960
Under 5.000 $6.30 $5.18 $8.10
5.000— 9.999 3.37 2.79 3.57
10.000— 24.999 2.78 2.24 3.24
25.000— 49.999 2.19 2.07 3.22
50.000— 99.999 2.34 2.69 3.78
100.000—249.999 2.40 I 2.88 4.11
250.000 6: Over 2.64 I 3.26 4.64
Average 2.70 I 2.58 3.72

or more. In 1960, only 29% spent less
than $2.00, while 48% spent $3.00 or
more.

It also should be mentioned that in
1950 only thirty cities, or seven percent
of the total reporting, spent at least
$5.00, and that no breakdown above
this bracket was considered worth
while. In 1960, 225 cities—21 % of the

total—spent at least $5.00, and one
hundred of these, $7.00 or more.

Table III shows the highest, lowest,
average, and median sums per capita
spent for recreation leadership in only
943 cities. (A number of the cities
represented in the Total Expenditures
tables could not be included here be-
cause they did not report leadership ex-
penditures.) As in Table I, the highest
amount reported is rather startling and
not likely to be duplicated by many
Cities in the foreseeable future; the
lowest figures in all population groups
provide unmistakable evidence that
numerous municipalities still are un-
aware of the importance of a compe-
tent, adequately recompensed staff.
Most encouraging, however, is the in-
crease in the over-all average since
1950. In that year, 373 cities spent an

% of % of
Change Change
1950. 1950-
1960 1950 1955 1960 1960
+29 $1.90 $2.65 63.30 +74
+ 6 1.09 110 1.77 +62
+17 .74 97 1.36 +84
+47 63 .83 1.17 +86
+62 .55 I .80 l 1.08 +96
+71 .48 1 .71 , 1.04 +117
+76 .51 I .73 f 1.16 +127
+38 .68 l 1.00 l 1.40 +106

average of $.68 per capita for recreation
leadership; in 1960, the average for all
reporting cities was $1.40.

In Table IV the per capita expendi-
tures for leadership only of cities in
each population group are arranged in
ascending brackets. The largest num-
ber of cities, 29% of the total, fall in
the $1.00-$1.49 bracket, and nearly
17% spent $2.00 per capita. It is in-
teresting to recall that in 1950, the
largest number of reporting cities—
113, or more than thirty percent—spent
between $.25 and $.49 for recreation
leadership. Less than three percent
spent as much as $2.00.

Table V compares average per capita
expenditures for total recreation and
park service and for recreation leader-
ship as shown in the 1950, 1955, and
1960 studies, and shows the percent of
change between 1950 and 1960. In the
Total Expenditures section, the in-
creased Spending in cities over fifty
thousand population is particularly in1-
pressive; in the Leadership section, the
marked growth in expenditures in cities
of all sizes bears witness to the im-
proved status of recreation leadership
as a profession. #

67

 

TRAVEL with the
NORTH WIND

How to plan your winter camping trip

Roderick MacRae

INTER CAMPING can become a
 new and exciting project for
many different groups or in-
dividuals. Somehow, camping in a snow
bank makes a demand that reaches the
soul. The human spirit is gratified by
living beneath the scourge of the winter
winds while remaining comfortable and
secure. There are, of course. many diffi-
culties not encountered in the summer.
Actually, winter camping may be less
of a burden, as the number of camp
chores is reduced, and there is more
time to relax around the fire.

What does one do in winter? True.
winter life lacks some of the ease and
convenience of summer living. The two

MR. MACRAE is a group worker at the
Waite Neighborhood House in Minne-

apolis.

'68

popular activities of swimming and
boating are gone. However, winter
brings us the peace of time to do many
things. Sigurd Olson, the great Minne-
sota naturalist, describes this feeling in
his legendary book The Singing Wilder-
ness. He says: “Now there will be time
for thc multitude of things that werc
denied me during thc feverish moving
ahout of summer and fall, leisure after
the long and constant business. That is
the real meaning of the first snowfall;
not a cessation of effort, but a drawing
of the curtain on so many of the warm
weather activities that consume so much
time.” The simple tasks, firehuilding.
eating, dressing comfortably, take on a
greater meaning. We can now afford to
spend hours vainly poring over our

clothing and get properly dressed for

the relaxed and enjoyable occasion.

There are a variety of new tastes, sen
sations, life forms to explore. Anima
life is particularly evident in winter
They cannot quickly hide themselves it
a glimmering white world. They, too
are hungry and grateful for any hand
out. Literally days can be spent setting
out morsels and watching the Darwin
ian battle amongst the wildlife to see
who gets to carry off the food to his den.
You can watch for hours through bin-
oculars an endless parade of animals far
across the frozen lake, and not in the
slightest aware of your presence. Spend
an afternoon tracking animals and see
where they have been and what they-
have been up to. Particularly fascinat-
ing are the minuscule tracks of mice
and birds in their helter-skelter treks
across the plains of white. Don’t ne-
glect the simple pleasures of playing in
the snow. Build a snowman, have a
snowball fight, burrow in a snowbank.
learn snowshoeing, go skiing, and a
thousand more. '

Above all, be aware'of the sensitive
world about you. There is a stillness of
the primitive snow world heard at no:
other time. The air is clean and crisp
and sounds are placed in their proper
perspective. There is no cacophony
here, only sounds gaunt and alone. The
stillness is an impelling force to be lis-
tened to with respect and appreciation.
Watch a thousand weightless snowflakes
gently place a blanket over the proud
balsam. Gaze upon the vast prairie of
a snowbound lake. Taste of clean air;
drink of cold water; feel the gentle
crunch of snowshoes upon a crusty
hank. All of these, and a thousand more
and unique adventures, are yours for a
trip beyond your warm hearth come the
next snowfall.

IF YOU ARE LUCKY ENOUGH to 0WD {1
summer cabin, you are set to go. All
you need to winterize a cabin is a pot-
hellied stove or a cook-range. If no
cabin is'available, check with the state
parks; they oftcn have public cabins
that are suitable for winter use. If using
a cabin, remember Ben Franklin’s ad-
vice and place your stove in the middle
of the room; a lot of heat can escape up
the chimney. Gas and oil burners sup.
ply an even amount of heat hut not
nearly as much heat as a wood fire. The

RECREATION

1‘ big advantage for gas is that you may
“it leave the cabin all day and have heat
M ghen you return. This procedure is not
“a r commended for woodfires as you may
5- find your cozy home in ashes when you
n return!
Ind. Do not overlook the possibilities of
r E tent. If you do, remember the air mat-
Eh} I 'essethis time. It is no added frill but
: vital necessity. There must be a warm
m  irspace between you and the ground.
in. I tlso, do not shovel away the snow from
far the bottom; it is an added layer of in-
jr :ulation. A handy item you may have
.-.round if you look in the attic is the old
ootwarmer that grandpa used to carry
I 0 church in the sleigh. Fill it with char-
it. :oal, wrap it in flannel, and place under
C oot of the sleeping bag just before you
I. . :limh in. It is also simple to use heated
-ocks for this (be sure they are not the
éind that will explode with heat).

My own dugout shelter is within an
hour of a large city and, yet, within a
fine hardwood forest. lt was inexpen-
sive to build. The dugout was cut from
the side of a hill, has three walls, a floor
of dirt, and a roof. The giant hearth
supplies the heat. While it is only a little
more than ten by fifteen feet and has a
minimum of furniture, eight boys and
two adults can have the time of their
lives there.

563

a
it .

e.

I
I t

When planning a winter camping

 
 
   

Spend an afternoon tracking animals.

. .
t I)
3'4. "
-‘ ‘ -

it
wt.

\2'-
3‘ 1*:
_ ‘2
r

    

\

v

‘

FEBRUARY, 1962

trip, certain basic precautions should bc
observed:

0 Never should a person with a temper-
ature, a cold, any infection (or recently
recovered from these) be on the trail
in winter unless there are excellent
warm cabins to be used.

0 Never start a trip unless you have.
more than enough clothing. Remember.
you can remove that extra sweater!

0 Never stay out long (more than an
hour or two) in extreme weather, un-
less you are an experienced winter ad-
venturer and know your endurance
level. This means temperatures less
than zero and strong winds. Beware of
signs of frostbite.

0 Know your nearest lines of communi-
cation for help. Most natives move to
town for the winter. Be certain that
your car will start.

0 Have a good firebuilder in the group
or have a dependable source of heat,
such as a handwarmer.

0 There must be a great deal more
planning and foresight for you cannot

comfortably forget things as you do in
the summer!

ow LET’S CHECK oven the clothing
list. As with any trip,,the equip-
ment must be geared to the needs of that
particular group. I am usually most
concerned about extra socks and sweat-
ers. Generally, I prefer a light moccasin
over several 'layers of socks for my feet.
I have these moccasins heavily water-
proofed to prevent the snow that collects
on top from melting through. It is also
easy to fit overshoes or rubbers over
these. Another excellent product is the
giant white “mukluk” issued to snow
troops. These are of legging length and
are made of canvas except for the
leather sole. They may be fitted with
felt innersoles. They fit over any shoe
and are unbearably hot. Boots for win-
ter present some problem in that they
are heavy and, if not a perfect fit, may
he chilly. Many a case of frosthite has
occurred from too tight boots. The new
“thermotype” boots issued by the sur-
plus stores are warm but heavy to walk
in. They are excellent for icefishing or
one-spot activities. Also take along an
extra pair of light boots or moccasins
for in-camp wear.
Underclothing is always a major
item. The “fishnet” type (extra wide

llllllll|Illlllll|llllIlHlllllllliilllllllIllllllUlllllllllllllHlllillllllllllllilllilllllllHllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllil'

NOTHING is so precious in the pres-
sure cooker of Twentieth Cen-
tury urban life as a place to forsake
the humdrum of daily bread-winning
for the change of pace of wholesome
play or relaxation in a natural set-
ting—Development Committee for
Greater C olnmbus. Ohio.

llllllllllllllllllllllllllIllIlllllllllllllllllllllllIllIlllllllllllllllllllllllllillll|l|l|lll|lllllllll|l|ll|IllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

weave) has proven excellent to those
who have used it. Its principle is to
provide a dry, stable airmass next to the.
body. It also allows pcrspiration to
evaporate without soaking into the cloth-
ing. Some of the extra-heavy quilted
types are warm but cause too much per-
spiration that clings to the body. In the
line of jackets, I strongly recommend
one that has a hood or big collar. The
furlined hoods are best. Also handy
would be a six-foot muffler so p0pular
on college campuses. This mufiler can
be wrapped endlessly about the face.
neck, and ears. Mittens can cause proh- ‘
lems too. I prefer the double kindlwitll I
a woolen liner. Thus. you haveitwo
pairs, one for warm weather: and one
for cold. I have never had any trouble
with gloves although most campers pre-
fer mittens. Brightly colored clothes“
add zest and come in handy if you he-
'coine lost. '
Following is a suggested clothing list.

This list has served me quite comfort-
ably in the bitter forty degrees below
of the Minnesota-Canadian horder.

1 suit long underwear (fishnet)

1 pair skipants (any tightknit weave will
do. also flannel)

1 sweat suit (both pants and shirt) needed
for sleeping

1 wool shirt (or any warm shirt to wear
next to body)

1 heavy sweater (should button up the front
to be opened to expel body heat occasion-

ally)
I outer parka, or jacket, with hood
1 hat, long scarf. ear protectors

5 pairs heavy socks fallow plcnly for
changes)

1 pair moccasins: hoots, rnhbcrs for outside.
wear

1 pair gloves or mittens

1 cotton neck sash (a bright red sash will do
wonders to keep the wind off the Adam’s
apple)

1 double sleeping bag, down-filled (do not
depend upon the so-called “winter” bags;
have a double layer of any bags).

69'

 

Saskatchewan’ s nursing home program

Always time for a tune! Robert Bell and his accordion
provide music at Provincial Geriatric and Rehabilitation Centre, Regina.

Accentuate
the Positive

for senior citizens includes recreation activities and projects

to make the later years more meaningful

 

W”-
[I '1'

Merry Cerries Choir harmonizes under direction of Carolyn Kolirynski.

May Neal

ECREATtos plays a very positive
R part in the program devised for
homes for senior citizens by the
Province of Saskatchewan in western
Canada. The province has found that
recreation, in its full and rewarding
concept, is something far more than a
means to while away the hours. It is a
means of self-expression, of developing
and strengthening friendships, of stim-
ulating new interests. and of building
status. While it is important that older
people feel loved and wanted, Saskatch-
ewan’s experience shows that by no
means do they want everything done for
them, They like to be in on the plans,

 

MISS NEAL is staff writer for the Sas-
katchewan, Canada, Department of So-
cial Welfare and Rehabilitation.

70

and to pay their own way within the
limits of their means.

There are over sixty housing and
nursing home projects, collectively ac-
commodating about four thousand per-
sons, located in some forty cities and
towns throughout the province. The
four geriatric centers, strategically lo-
cated throughout the province accom-
modate 658 persons. A fifth, in the
planning stage, will accommodate a fur-
ther 120 persons. There are approxi-
mately 85,000 persons in Saskatchewan
who are sixty-five years of age and over,
in a total population of 913,000.

Some half a dozen homes under reli-
gious sponsorship have been in opera:
tion in the province for several decades,
but the impetus in the program and its

broadening to include low-rental hous-
ing came by means of the Saskatchewan
Housing Act of 1953. Except for the
physical structure of one of the geriatric
centers which have been a provincially
operated institution for the aged and
infirm since 1923, the nucleus of the
present geriatric program went into op-
eration in 1947. Three of the geriatric
centers are under the Saskatchewan
Hospital Services Plan and, as such, are
geriatric hospitals. However, they dif-
fer from general hospitals in that they
provide care, on a long-term basis, for
elderly patients in whom recovery and
discharge is not anticipated in a week
or a month. Because of the‘long stay in
geriatric centers every effort is made to
create in them a homelike atmosphere.

A SCARCITY of local “know-how” in
the operation of homes for the

aged was one of the needs that prompted
the organization of the Saskatchewan
Association of Housing and Nursing
Homes in 1958. This brought sponsors
and operators of projects together for
lectures and demonstrations, group dis-
cussions, and a better understanding of
what gI'OUp living for senior citizens
involves.

Today, a look at the province’s estab-
lished programs for the care of the aged
shows financial assistance, health serv-
ice, and extensive development in the
areas of low-rental housing and nursing
homes which are Sponsored by munici-
pal, religious, and fraternal groups, and

RECREATION

 

‘- bedridden guest in Saskatoon Pro-
incial Geriatric Centre knits Siwash
weaters, often finishes one a week.

perated on a nonprofit basis. Ap-
roved projects are given financial sup-
rt and technical assistance by govern-
u nt. There are also the geriatric cen-
ers owed by the provincial govern-
«t- and operated by its Department
f Social Welfare and Rehabilitation.
Collectively, housing accommodation
anges from self-contained units for
uples who can keep house and look
fter themselves, through hostels and
odges for single persons where meals
re served and a “watchful eye” type
care is given, to nursing homes which
9 ovide the service the name implies,
.-nd the geriatric centers. At the present
. age in the development of the Sas-
atchewan Housing and Nursing Home
rogram, recreation is an aspect of
roup living that rests almost entirely
vith the matron. More assistance in this
rea may soon be made available, but
or the present each project is more or
ess on its own. .
‘ N EVENING SESSION of the 1960 Sas-
katchewan Association of Housing
nd Nursing Homes conference was de-
oted to recreation. Keyed off by re-
)orts from matrons and managers of
rojects more actively engaged in rec-
'eation, it opened up into a lively “buzz
session” of ideas on the subject.

EBRUARY. 1962

 

 
 
  
    
   

Guests who are very capable have
been put to good use in many homes,
where they have organized a guest coun-
cil along lines similar to those of a stu-
dent council in a college. Such a coun-
cil functions in the Wolseley Geriatric
Centre, for instance. A highlight of its
1960 activity was an open house pre-
ceded by weeks of organization and
preparation. This proved to be a big
and rewarding affair.

The value of organizing toward some
particular function was brought out by
the matron of St. Paul’s Lutheran Home
at Melville when a visitor commented
to her in October, “You already seem
to have Christmas plans bursting out all
over.” The matron’s philos0phical re-
ply was, “And why not? Our guests
are not nearly as apt to become ill when
there is something interesting in the
wind.”

This same matron has evolved the in-
teresting theory that, “You don’t ask
older people if they want to do some-
thing, you expose them to it.” For in-
stance, someone gave St. Paul’s Home
an old dismantled loom. It wasn’t long
before guests began looking it over.
Putting it together was obviously a chal-
lenge. The matron says that now she
finds oldsters up at five in the morning
to get first chance at the loom.

AMONG ONE GROUP of older people
Who were asked if they’d like to
square dance the general attitude was
a blank refusal, “What, me square
dance?” But in a similar group, when
square dancers came to entertain, the
oldsters themselves approached the
dancers and asked if they would come
and teach them. In the Swift Current
Prairie Pioneer Lodge they hold a
weekly square dance and dance to their
own orchestra. It consists of three vio-
lins, piano, mouth organ and accordian,
and the players are all between seventy-
five and eighty-seven years of age. The
matron comments, “It’s amazing the
number of canes that are hanging in a
storeroom since the guests became in-
terested in square dancing.”
In the Swift Current Pioneer Lodge,

BROTHERHOOD WEEK
February 18-25

 

the guests enter a float in the city’s an-
nual Dominion Day parade. They de-
sign and construct it themselves. Their
first effort rewarded them with second
prize; the following year they won the
first.

They also have a choir. The ages of
the singers range from seventy-four to
eighty-eight—and the choir leader and
pianist are also guests in the lodge.
They have appeared on TV and been in-
vited, as a choir, to sing in city churches.
Guests put on a variety show for the
public twice a year, and the winners ap-
pear on TV. Group singing, informally
or under a director in a choir or choral
group, is generally enjoyed. In the Re-
gina Geriatric Centre, the appropriately
named “Merry Gerries” are a choral
group of elderly ladies, mostly in wheel-
chairs. The group is under the direction
of a former professional musician, Car-
olyn Hoglund Kobrynski.

IN THE MAJORITY of localities auxil-
iary organizations bring organized
entertainment and refreshments into the
home one evening a week. Most auxil-
iaries are made up of representatives of
organized community groups. Variety
concert nights are considered tops in
many of the homes, while others prefer
bingo and similar game nights. Films
are popular, particularly travelogues.
In some of the homes, the Regina
Geriatric Centre for one, the guests
have entertained the auxiliary at an af-
ternoon tea as a reciprocal gesture.
Weeks of planning and preparation pre-
ceded the occasion. They wrote to
daughters and former friends for rec-
ipes, had the use of the kitchen, after-
noons, for some days before the func-
tion. The lace-tea-cloth, silver-tea-serv-
ice occasion was fully enjoyed.
Auxiliaries are a liaison between the
home for the aged and the community
and vice versa. They make the people
in the house feel they are part of the
community, and they make the people
in the community realize the term “old
folks’ home,” as it was once understood,

Continued on Page 104

71

An air base youth program
shows topnotch relationship with

volunteers, top participation.

YOUTH in COMMAND

Mildred Pender Dealon

 

I
4! Christmas time. instead of exchanging gifts, Dyess That’s where the money went . . . for new sidewalks and
youth bring gifts of used ctotht'ng for needy of Ahitene. patio/ortheyouth (renter. The-youthraised$l84~5forprojee

 

u ' (1*

Youngsters put on adaptation of Crimm’s‘q'he Crying [’rin- Etection time. Each 0/ the base’s [our teen ctuhs etect
cess and the Cotden Goose.” They make the ptay the thing. its own o§icers, and governs itself with. its own bylaw;

72 RECREATIO

: YESS AIR FORCE BASE is known as
a “choice assignment.” A major
reason is the rapport it enjoys

iith the citizens of Abilene, who, in

,1 rue Texas style, have cooperated to

stablish a community-base relation-

hip that is high, wide, and handsome
ndeed. Good community-base relation-

I hip? You would think Abilene-Dyess

nvented the term! This has been par-

_icularly fortuitous for the youngsters

m the base. Dyess youth are invited to

' oin downtown dance clubs and the base

een clubs schedule “Towne Nites” to

{vhich they invite their Abilene friends.

i The base youth programs use the re-

sources of both the military community

'ind the civilian community of Abilene.

The drama director of Abilene High

School directed the base children’s

theater production year before last;

 

this past summer the director was a
captain who is a former president of
Dyess Playhouse, the base’s little
theater group. The Abilene Community
Theatre has provided adult advisors for
the base teen committees. A prominent
Abilene doctor came out to the base to
make an excellent speech to the older
teenagers on the problems of early mar-
riage. Abilene city schools cooperate
in programing to avoid confiicts, and
one school principal serves on the base’s
adult Advisory Council.

Dyess makes no attempt to compete
with the very excellent city recreation
summer programi but encourages mili-
tary youth to take part. The local telc-
phone company was most gracious in
sending a speaker and a film on tele-
phone manners for the base “School for
Baby Sitters.” Dyess could not operate
the tremendously successful food stands
on Armed Forces Day and Kids Day
without the “above-and-beyond” coop-
eration of an outstanding Abilene
bakery and the hottled drink companies,
or for that matter, the wonderful help
of the hase commissary staff, the civil
engineering personnel, ad infinitum!

 

 

MRS. DEATON is youth director for Dy-
ess Air Force Base, Texas. Her program
has been rated one of the best in the
service for her skillful use of base-
mmmunity resources.

FEBRUARY, 1962

That same bakery gives the base’s
boys and girls the opportunity to sell
world-renowned fruitcakes at a profit
for their club. An Abilene service or-
ganization allows the base’s Scouts to
sell its Christmas tree coupons with a
percentage profit for the troops. The
local United Fund took in the base
Youth Activities as an agency last year,
and it now receives a nominal sum from
that source. This year, feeling other
agencies had a more valid need, the
hase authorities requested the United
Fund to reduce this budget as they be-
lieve Dyess youth can and will earn a
good portion of their needs.

THE BASE wrvss’ CLUBS are generous
in their support, one club donating
$35 a month to support the youth
program, another donating various
amount§~'as it “is able. The Officers
Wives Club has also bought ‘the.young-
sters two hotdog machines and a Sno-
cone machine with which they earn
their own funds. Recently completed at
the base Youth Center were new side-
walks and a patio costing $1845. This
money was raised by the youth, all ac-
tivities cooperating in the past two
years on Armed Forces Day and Kids
Day.

The Dyess Youth Activities Fund,
used for the benefit of all youth activi-
ties, also receives a percentage from the
sale of automobile decals on the base.
In over three years, it has not been nec-
essary to request a single penny from
the base Welfare Fund, although grants
from the Strategic Air Command
helped build the youth center, now two
years old.

The youth director of Dyess acts
under the guidance and supervision of
the base recreation director and is
responsible to the base commander
through the deputy commander for
services. Operational ledgers are kept
by the youth director on each activity
which generates and expends funds, ex-
cept those which are nationally affili-
ated. The youth director also has the
assistance of a volunteer who acts as
the “teen club coordinator,” aiding,
assisting. and supporting the youth di-

rector with all phases of teen club work.
She serves as a voting member of the
Youth Activities Advisory Council and
on the board of the Officers Wives Club.
Her principal function is liaison with
the parents. Her term of office in nor-
mally one year and she is appointed by
the hase commander.

In addition to four teen clubs, the
youth program at Dyess consists of two
Boy Scout tr00ps, one club pack, one
Explorer post, Little League, Brownies,
Girl Scouts, TOPS (Teens Organization
for Public Service), a youth committee,
teen newspaper, Youth Activities Ad-
visory Council, and many special sum-
mer activities: learn-to-swim sessions,

- fencing, chess and bridge lessons, dance

classes, a Children’s Theatre production
and the Youth Center, which has Open
house for dependents in the seventh
grade or above each afternoon from 1
to 5:30. The Youth Center is closed
Sundays and qudays, and one iron-
clad rule is: if you’re are too sick to go

to school, you’re too sick to come to
the Youth Center.

ALL GROUPS use the Youth Center for

general meetings, committee meet-
ings, parent meetings, etcetera. Brown-
ies, Girl Scout, and Cub den meetings
crowd the afternoon calendar. The
Youth Center is never—repeat never——
open at night as a “hangout.” Nights
are taken up with scheduled and super-
vised meetings for Boy Scouts, Ex-
plorers, TOPS, youth committee, et-
cetera. Sub-Teens and Twix-Teens al-
ternate Friday nights; Junior-Teens
and Senior-Teens alternate Saturday
nights. Any free nights, such as a fifth
Friday or Saturday, are available for
private parties on a first-come, first-
served basis—as long as the activity is
for youth and the policies on chaper-
ones and rules are followed.

Each of the base’s four teen clubs
(average membership in each is 75-90l
elects its own officers every six months.
governs itself with its own bylaws, and
is self-supporting through dues and
money-raising projects. Each Club also
elects five adults advisors who serve one
year. They are elected twice a year to

" 73

 

establish overlapping terms and con.
tinuity on the committee. Regularly
scheduled advisors’ meetings are held
for each club once a month.

The chairman and co-chairman of
advisors work with the executive com-
mittee of the club and the board of
governors or court of honor of the
club. Two other advisors work with

the teen program committee. planning
programs three months in advance;
scheduling parents as sponsors (one
adult—one father is worth two mothers
—-—for each ten boys and girls participat-

Yes, hundreds of park and rec-
reation departments are iump-

ing on the refreshment band-
wagon. You’ll add 10% to 20%

to your available operating

funds.

All Gold Medal Equipment can
pay for itself out of Profits!

 

 

Write t_o_d_a,y [gr Egg 1961 cata-
log and detailed book on re-
freshments. We have everything
you need for HOT DOGS, POP-
CORN, SNO-KONES, COTTON
CANDY AND ALL OTHER RE-
FRESHMENT ITEMS.

 

    
  
 

The most trusted name in Refreshments Today! '

74 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

 

 

 

DAL PllllllllBTS BUMPAN

1021.” Freeman Avenue, Cincinnati 14. Ohio

ing); and aid in seeing that details.
of decorating, refreshments, games,
prizes, etcetera are carried out. The
fifth advisor acts as paper-drive chair-
man in the older clubs and as adult
treasurer in the younger ones.

All advisors are familiar with the
work of the others through the monthly
meetings (new advisors are more or
less “in training”); and each takes a
turn being “advisor-in-charge” at club
functions. To obtain advisors, the youth
director calls from a list of names sug-
gested by other advisors, the youth or

  
  

 

8c profit per 10c
sole. Equlpment and
supplies cost under

$300.00. Over 50%
of your potrons wlll

    
 
  

Almost 9: profit per
10: sole. Equipment
ond supplies $300.00.
Extremely popular
with all Children un-
der l6.

SNO-KONES

81: profit per 10:.
Equipment and sup-
plies costs under
$225.00. Equipment
only 149.50. Every-
body loves Sno-Kones
—the most refreshing
drink you can eat.

r-_--—------------‘

  

   

  

I Send more information on I
: REFRESHMENT PROFITS to: :
I

Name I
Address.._________._____._. :

' I

I City I
Stat¢_________________ I

- - - - - _ _ _ - _ - - - - - I J

 

on application blanks, and asks if tl
mother is willing to serve if elected.

list of those willing is then placed 0
the mimeographed ballot, usually git
ing the youth a choice of three out c

live.

FOR A YOUTH to join a teen club (lift:
and sixth grade, Sub-Teens; set
enth grade, Twix-Teens; eighth an:
ninth grade, Junior-Teens; tenth tr
twelfth grades, Senior-Teens), it i
necessary for one parent to sign an ap
plication blank for membership. In sr
signing, the parent indicates in whicl
capacity he or she would like most to b
of assistance: advisory, entertainment
chaperone. Parents take turns actiu
as Sponsors (chaperones), and it ie‘
stressed that the base youth program'-
cannot operate without parents’ help
The dads also help on paper drives.
three driving trucks and three riding in
back as chaperoues. A paper drive
usually lasts from 9-12 once a month
on the first Saturday (Junior- and
Senior-Teens alternate), with the teen
club netting $16 to $30.

In a youth program such as this, the
use of volunteers is a must. A youth
program is only as good as the number
and quality of the adults involved.

How do you get high-caliber volun-
tecrs? At Dycss, the youth program
personnel solicits aid from the other
recreation facilities on base and the
other basc organizations;
spcechcs at family services orientation
for the wives and organization coffces;
secures coopcration of the spotters com-
mittees in presenting the youth story
and youth activities preference cards to
newcomers. Dycss is tecming with tal-
ented hobbyists who are willing to help
others. Just advertise for a spccial some-
one and therc he is!

Find volunteers? First visualize what
the kids want, what you think they need
and would enjoy. Thcn go find some-

makes

one to help you make it exciting, won-
derful fun! We cannot go to too much
“intelligent trouble” for our youth—
particularly our military youth. “Intel-
ligent trouble” means helping youth.
not doing for them. Volunteers usuall}
find base youth work the most stimulat-
ing, worthwhile work they have ever at-
tempted. Dyess offers limitless oppor-
tunity for “intelligent trouble”! #

RECREATIOh

7715 PmWA/mm K501542927!
I. mm mm 11.1mm 78mm

cAAm/t'MMMA (WW/Dir

 

A Report on Drama in Public Recreation
Prepared by the Program Department
of the National Recreation Association

Virginia Musselman
Siebolt H. Frieswyk

0n the curtain of Ford’s Opera House, Baltimore, Maryland

"God conceived the world, that was poetry;
He formed it, that was sculpture,
He colored it, that was painting,
He peoPZed it with living beings;

that was the grand, divine, eternal drama.”

-—CHARLOTTE CUSHMAN (1816-1876)

 Published by
National Recreation Association 0 8 West Eighth Street 0 New York 11, N. Y.

Joseph Prendergast, Executive Director
Affiliated with The National Cultural Center, Washington, D. C.

DRAMA

1i!

__ I}



' my

 

IS RECREATION

Drama transports us
to the world of

high adventure where

anything is possible

HE IIOPEFUL, visionary, and ex-
T perimental projects in com-

munity drama initiated at the
[urn of the century have grown into
dynamic, vital, purposeful artistic chan-
nels merging into a major force in
American life. There are now approxi-
mately three thousand amateur com-
munity theater groups in existence,
many of which are associated with pub-
lic recreation departments. Some 120,-
000 nonprofessional stage productions
are put on annually.

A beautiful outdoor theater with
stage lighting equipment, dressing
rooms and storage rooms has recently
been constructed in Byrd Park in Rich-
mond, Virginia. Within the past two
years an exceptionally fine arena theater
has been built in Fairmount Park,

Philadelphia. The handsome cultural
center in Charlotte, North Carolina,
and the children’s theater in Oakland,
California, offer two more examples of
what is being done by local govern-

ments in providing more adequate fa- '

cilities for the performing arts. The
gymnasium with a small stage which
has been used so often for all kinds of
theatrical presentations is gradually
giving way to facilities which are de-
signed specifically for drama purposes.

Responses to the recent questionnaire
sent out by the National Recreation As-
sociation to its Affiliates and Associates
show that most of the recreation agen-
cies in the country include some form
of drama activity in their programs.
Much attention is being paid to creative
drama for children, formal children’s

Youngsters working on costume workshop
class projects for the Palo Alto Division of
Children’s Theatre prepare for a production.
The workshop is under the direction of the
costume director of the theater, which puts
on ten to twelve major productions each. year.

 

 

Volunteer stagecraft worlrers in. the Palo Alto Community Theatre prepare an originally designed curtain.

dramatics, drama for teenagers and to
providing more adequate facilities for
all types of drama activity, both indoor
and outdoor.

Adult performances of plays for chil-
dren are also becoming more numerous.
The Association of the Junior Leagues
of America alone sponsored 1903 per-
formances which reached almost a mil-
lion children in 1958. The drama activi-
ties reported in the questionnaire also
are valuable assets to programs for spe-
cial groups. such as senior citizens, the
ill and handicapped. delinquents, and

armed-service personnel and their
families.

All this dramatic activity owes a debt
of honor to the pioneers of community
drama who worked at Chicago’s Hull
House, New York City’s Henry Street
Settlement, and the_ drama centers in
Evanston, Illinois; Madison, Wiscon-
sin; and Chapel Hill, North Carolina.
Joseph Lee’s concepts of the “dramatic

99'

age, 1n his classic Play In Education
(1915), are now reaching their great-
est fullfillment.

Geraldine Siks, in Creative Dra-

matics ("1958), rcgards creative drama
as a means of fostering spiritual and
cmotional growth, and of contributing
toward a philosOphy of living and crea-
tive imagination. Frances Durland, in
Creative Dramatics for Children
(1956), observes that creative dra-
matics is a “unique opportunity for
creative living.” Winifred Ward, in
Playmahing with Children {1947).
recognizes the educational and recrea-
tional values of drama and has set pat-
terns of excellence in her work at

Northwestern University which have

)een enthusiastically adopted by other
eaders in education and recreation.
Variety is the allspice of drama, ac-
:ording to the questionnaire returns.
The variety of forms which drama takes
in recreation programs is spotlighted
I in the following list which includes all
the forms reported in the questionnaire.

Arena Productions

Audience Participation Dramas
Bible Readings

Blackouts

Camp Dramatics

Ceremonials
Charades and other Dramatic Games

Children’s Theater Productions

Children’s Theatcr Workshops

Choral Speech

Christmas Readings

Clown Clubs

Community Theaters

Community Theater Workshops

Competition in Playwriting and Performing

Creative Dramatics

Children’s Theater Productions by Adult
Amateur and Professional Players

Dramatic Leadership Training and
Workshops

Dramatic Readings

Dramatizing Stories and Ballads

Festivals

Improvisations

Impersonations

Informal Dramatics

Listening

Mobile Theaters and Show-Wagons

Monodrama and Monologues

Pantomime

Pageants

Peep Box

Playground Dramatics

Puppets and Marionettes

Radio and Television Broadcasts

Recitals

Revues

Shadow Plays
Skits ,

Sociodrama

Story Plays for Children
Storytelling

Study Courses
Tableaux

Talent or Variety Shows
Teen Shows

Basic Concepts

CONSIDERABLY more important than
the element of variety, however.
are the basic concepts underlying the
more developed community drama
recreation programs. These concepts
may be identified as follows:
0 Comprehensive planning
0 Excellence
0 Creativity

Comprehensive program planning
consists of more than merely the pro-

 

7"»

Watching the Wizard of 02 at the Memphis, Tennessee, Children’s Theatre.

vision for variety in types of drama ac-
tivities. It provides a continuity of
progressive development of such activi-
ties from childhood to adulthood. It
starts with the finger plays, action
songs, imitative rhythms, storytelling,
and the “play-like” activities of the pre-
school and early elementary-age young-
ster. Informal dramatics, dramatic
games, pantomime, improvisations, all
cncourage individual participation and
individual creativity. This is a short
step for youngsters eager and ready to
enlarge their skills, knowledge. and ap-
preciation of the thcater in all its phases,
including actinv, directing, voice train-
ing, set and scene design and construc-
tiou, lighting, costumes, and the like.
Formal drama, with all its techniques
and variations, continues through high
school and adulthood. There is a place
in the theater arts for every type and
degree of skill and interest.

While this kind of participation goes
on, children also have the opportunity

DRAMA IS RECREATION

 

  
   
 

b

,g n: v 

     

to attend children’s theater perform-
ances by adults and to gain firsthand
cxperience with puppets and marion-
ettes. A comprehensive program also
relates drama to other arts as well.
Excellence in drama consists of the
right blending of originality of concept
—creative, imaginative, and effective
expression of ideas, thoughts, and feel-
ings about life and human experience.

The various media of the stage are em- '

ployed skillfully and purposefully to
gain a sense of beauty and strength
arising from the expression of valid
emotions, thoughts and ideas about
human experience. The qualities which
make drama itself excellent apply to
all phases of an excellent drama pro-
gram: to the building, the rehearsal,
the planning, organization, the leader,
teacher, director, the spirit of the
program.

Excellence is not possible in a rou-
tine, average program. The measure of
excellence does not direct itself'toward

  

“‘1'—
Iu—-—u——-——-—-——.-—.-..

’ I
U

Torrance, California, offers a year-round children’s puppet class.

the perfection of performance, but
rather to the qualities of growth made
possible through drama experience. Ex-
cellence in drama begins with children.
The drama programs conducted in
secondary schools, both public and
private, emphasize quality. The newly
formed Division of Drama in Sec-
ondary Schools of AETA is seeking con-
stantly to upgrade the selection of plays,
their direction and performance. This
will be reflected more and more in the
irama programs for teenagers.
Creativity through drama activity
should be a process of new discovery

and fresh insight and appreciation and
serve not only as a means of personal
growth but as a prime motivating force
in the whole drama program. Creativity
may be applied to set and stage design-
ing, architecture, playwriting, direct-
ing, lighting, costuming, as well as to
rehearsal and performance.

Creative thought and action can be
applied to planning by the staff and by
committees, as well as to studies which
bring together the necessary informa-
tion and material from which plans can
be made. In this respect, creativity is
not a one-man job or, in any sense, im-
practical. The exposition and discus-
sion of the whole field of drama as
recreation and the possibilities which

‘cl
‘1:

 

present themselves with reference to
studies are part of the creative method.
The architect who designs the new
drama facility must rely upon informa-
tion from (liilerent sources in order to
arrive at a basic concept, purpose, use,
style, and fitness with regard to struc-
ture. Original thinking can go into the
selection of the creative drama leader,
or an announcement of a drama pro-
gram, the type of drama festival to be
sponsored, the making of costumes and
scenery.

Creative interpretations and produc-
tions of plays are expected of a quali-
fied leader or director, and the plays
selected should lend themselves to crea-
tive treatment. A most important task
of the director and playreading group
is to make every effort possible to pre-
sent plays worth doing.

Playwriting and the performance of
new plays should hecome part of the
drama program and serve as an im-
portant means for encouraging talent
and gaining experience. Combining the
talents and resources of the drama pro-
gram with those of the music, drama,
crafts, athletic and sports, publicity and
other programs create limitless oppor-
tunities for the expression of new
ideas, new combinations. fresh ap-
proaches to central and basic themes.

AN ANALYSIS of the recreation depart-

ment drama pr0grams in cities of
various sizes and geographic locations
will reveal some secrets of success.
Methods of organization, types of spon-

sorship, scope of program, and even '

philosophy regarding drama may vary,
but the underlying foundation of the
successful drama program in public
recreation is based upon the following
fundamental cornerstones:

o A recreation executive who believes
in the importance of drama as an im-
portant cultural art and as a creativc
outlet for all age levels.

0 A trained drama specialist on the
administrative staff.

0 A special, official division within the
administrative framework of the de-
partment for the promotion and con-
ducting of drama, either as a separate
department or as part of an overall
division of cultural arts.

0 Recreation leaders for playgrounds,
camps, or indoor centers selected for
their interest and training in drama.
Interest and some training makes it
possible for the drama supervisor to
orient and train these leaders for their
part of the drama program.

0 A plan. Staff leaders must have vi-
sion, understand the scope possible for
drama and the. steps necessary to attain
objectives.

A successful drama
program is not a simple summer pag-
eant, annual play, a puppet show, talent
night, storyhour, or other one-shot af-
fair. It must offer opportunities that

o Progression.

may vary seasonally but continue
throughout the year. These must pro-
vide for varying degrees of skill and
interest and be appropriate to varying
age levels, from the preschool child
through adults and older adults.

0 Cooperative action. The greater thc
depth and breadth of the successful
drama program, the more cooperation
lies behind it. This cooperation usually
involves the board of education, drama
departments of local colleges and uni-
versities, national groups like the
American Educational Theatre Associa-
tion and the Children’s Theatre Confer-
ence, local civic, social, and youth-
serving agencies.

 

1
1
l.

0 Adequate facilities. Departments
vith successful drama programs know
.hat a center for the performing arts or
1 recreation arts building gives prestige
to the program, as well as making it
possible to provide more effective op-
portunities and leadership. In plan-
ning new parks, playgrounds, and in-
door centers, the needs of community
drama should have the same careful
consideration given to sports areas or
the swimming pool. Adequate work and
storage space open up new interests for
stage design, costuming, and set con-
struction. With the increasing use of mo-
bile units, such as show wagons, travel-
ing theaters, portable puppet shows, and
the like, Opportunities to enjoy drama
and to take part in it can be widespread
throughout the community.

Below, Jack follows his beanstalh up
a convenient hillside during a summer

playground drama production put on
by the dynamic Department of Public
Recreation in South Bend, Indiana.

 

Inasmuch as an effective drama pro-
gram depends so largely upon adequate
facilities, equipment, and supplies, im-
mediate plans should be made for their
acquisition, care, storage, and use. A
drama library should be collected. A
worksh0p with tools for making
scenery, costumes, props, puppets,
marionettes, and sound equipment are
basic for many types of performances.
Office equipment in addition to what
the department already has is often
necessary.

Ownership of all supplies and equip-
ment, and control of their purchase and
use must be established at the start.
Careful inventory must be made from
time to time. Regular and well-under-
stood procedures for the use of all facil-
ities and properties will do much to pre-

 

Above, those beloved critters,
the three little pigs, squeal
out their troubles to delighted
small fry during a summer
playground puppet show put
on in Livingston, New Jersey.

Right, a drama spccialist in
the Dayton, Ohio, Bureau of
Recreation makes up “Mrs.
Clock” for a Junior Draniatic
Spring-Surrimer Festival play.

DRAMA IS RECREATION

 

vent lnisuse, damage or theft. A quali-
fled drama leader or director will see to
it that the “business” of rehearsing and
producing plays is done in a business-
like manner.

0 Standards of performance. The train-
ing of professional actors is not the ob-
jective of recreational drama. Drama.
however, is a performing art, and, in
most of its forms, requires an audience.
The higher the standards of perform-
ance the greater the appreciation and
support of the community, and the
greater the satisfaction of the performer.
o The recreation drama must “gener-

ate its own steam.” It must keep ave-

nues open for new and additional proj-
ects that may rise spontaneously out of
any group. The elements of freshness
and flexibility are essential. The suc-

 

 

Among other theater skills, youngsters learn the art of scen-
ery, costumes, makeup, speech, and acting. Here a group
in Reading, Pennsylvania, learn. what greasepaint means.

cessfnl drama program in public recre-
ation must seem to be ever changing,
ever adapting itself to present needs.
and expanding to meet new needs and
interests as they arise.

EVERYONE wants to get into the act
but. not everyone has the knack.
How do you produce a drama pro-
gram? As a first step, discussions with
staff, interested laymen, and a guest
drama specialist would be in order. The
purpose of this discussion should be to
explore the terrain, so to speak—the
whole range of activity and values and
purposes of each type of drama. These
discussions should be general and in-
formal and should be held without ref-
erence to what is happening locally or
to a specific project.
information about resources, oppor-
tunities, and needs for amateur partici-
pation existing locally. in the state, and
nationally, but particularly locally is a
prerequisite to any plan of action. Staff
members with assistance of a volunteer

study committee may gather informa-
tion for the recreation agency and pre-
sent it in the form of a brief report. A
study of this kind could be made on a
district-by-district basis in larger cities
("population of 100,000 or more], and
as a single study for cities. towns, and
counties of less than 100,000. Answers
to the following questions would he
helpful:

0 What are the schools, churches, clubs,
youth agencies doing in drama?

0 What amateur community drama
groups are already active and what do
they do?

0 Where is drama leadership being
trained and where is it available?

0 Are facilities such as stages, indoor
and outdoor. and equipment, such as
lighting. sound. and costumes avail-
ahle?

0 Who are the people who are most ac-
tive in drama and drama production:
the stagehands, the electricians, the
projectionists, the performers, direc-
tors, supporters?

With a frame of reference and a brief
study at hand, a small advisory commit-
tee, consisting of impartial, knowledge-
able, and civic-minded citizcns, should
be formed and called upon to consider
the brief study in relation to various
possibilitics offercd and for recommen-
dations for further action. Whatever
recommendations are made or course of
action taken, it is essential to think in
terms of a developing program capable
of progression rather than an isolated,
spasmodic, or occasional activity or
event. Each drama activity developed
will possess real value and purpose only
if it fits into the larger picture of drama
in the department’s program and that
of the comn'lunity.

There are direct and immediate ways
of beginning drama activity in the agen-

g

cys program. For example, paid or
volunteer recreation leaders in centers
and on playgrounds can be trained in
the simpler forms of drama. Leaders
with a background of training in drama

can he employed and called upon to do

 

Teenage backstage workers in Palo Alto, California, build, a
paint, and light their own summer production of Meet Me in
St. Louis. The program provides a wide range of activities.

Once upon a tirne every parade featured a collection of horribles or grotesqueries. Now these creatures from the European
mystery plays and festivals are to be seen in Thanksgiving and Mardi Cras processions. Here they appear in a pageant put
on by the San Francisco Recreation and Park Department. Mask making is an ancient art currently enjoying a revival.

what they are best capable of doing in
the community center and playground
program. A drama workshop for the
community at large may be organized
under expert leadership. However, di-
l'ect and immediate ways of initiating
a drama program are often improvisa-
tional and temporary if undertaken
without reference to a larger, more com-
prehensive, and long-range program
toward which the dcpartment and its

advisory committee or council must
work.

THE ORGANIZATION and development
of more formal and advanced
drama groups logically follows from in-
formal activities. Formal drama by
children, children’s theater (theater for
and by children, or children’s theater
by adults for children) necessitate more
formal organization and procedure. A
need must be established, expert leader-
ship obtained, and a budget provided
specifically for the purpose for all the
more advanced forms of drama activity.

Performances in most cases means
“going into business,” a business which
is politely called nonprobt. More often
than not formal productions involve a
debcit. For this reason it is absolutely
essential for a recreation agency to
know exactly what it is committed to
financially. Agencies are not in a posi-
tion to take financial risks. For this
reason, and others, it is necessary to
organize producing groups as nonprofit
organizations with tax-exempt privi-
leges, controlled by a committee or
board which assumes final responsibil-
ity for management and budget control
of the group.

Formal organizations of this kind
should be required of children’s theater
groups, teenage theater groups, and
community theater groups. Adult
groups performing for children should
be expected to assume responsibility for
their own finances as agreed upon with
the department. This does not mean that
nonprofit drama groups must act cn-
tirely independently or without direct

DRAMA IS RECREATION

sponsorship of the department. The de-
partment may retain sponsorship by
agreement with producing groups and
may assume a specified degree of man-
agerial and bnancial control and re-
sponsibility. However, the relationships
should be incorporated in the constitu-
tion of the organizations Sponsored or
stated in written agreements.

PLAYGROUND or community center

productions which do not involve -

any serious financial risk require a
more lenient relationship with the
agency and in most cases would come
under direct control of the department.
Nevertheless, sponsoring committees
made up of parents and neighbors are
usually helpful. Financial assistance to
nonprofit performing groups usually
are limited to “fixed charges” which the
department can estimate accurately and
to services. Departments commonly pay
for leadership, provide facilities, pur-
chase equipment and drama parapher-
nalia. Departments often provide office

 

DRAMA IS RECREATION

 

assistance, promotional aid, and other
forms of service which help make possi-
ble the impossible. Departments can
take a ma or role in the sponsorship and
organization of workshOps, conferences,
festivals, tournaments, outdoor theater
productions, and other occasional
events. If, however, these undertakings
are of large pr0portions, the assistance
of citizens, civic organizations, and as-
sociations or committees will be neces-
sary. In many cases, such wide spon-

sorship has great interest and promo-
tional value.

EXpert drama leadership for the spe-
cialized forms of drama activity pro-
vides the mainspring for successful op-
eration of the drama program. Long-
standing and outstanding programs in
municipally sponsored programs not
only utilize leadership from the “out-
side,” but over the years have developed
their own leadership from within their
group.

The selection of a drama specialist
depends on the job to be done. Creative
drama requires a creative-drama Spe-
cialist. The community theater director
should be a specialist in his own right.
A drama leader with skill and training
for working with children and teenagers
will be the most effective choice for
these age groups.

r-l-‘HE ADVICE of a drama advisory com-

mittee, council, or board is indis-
pensable, not only in recommending the
kind of drama activity to be conducted
but also in deciding upon the kind of
leadership best suited to do the job.
Consultation with such an advisory
committee, council, or board will be
helpful not only to recreation depart-
ments with experienced drama staff but
also to departments planning to employ
new drama specialists for the first time.

John A. Walker, former executive
secretary of the American Educational
Theatre Association, estimates that at
least 250 colleges and universities offer
training applicable to children’s theater
work and community theater. He also
estimates that approximately ten thou-
sand students are currently enrolled as
drama majors in colleges and universi-

ties in this country. At least half the
number of drama majors who graduate
become associated with noncommercial
drama activity. Drama training is also
available in some college and university
extension programs and summer work-
shops. Both the Children’s Theatre and
the Community Theatre Divisions of the
American Educational Theatre Associ-
ation are actively interested, and, in
many cases, directly involved in drama
programs sponsored by public recrea-
tion agencies. Contact with drama de-
partments in colleges and universities,
and, whenever possible, with AETA
within the respective states will widen
the possibilities of obtaining the right
kind of leadership. The personnel serv-
ice of AETA may also be helpful, espe-
cially in the selection of.career drama
specialists.

W. R. Hutchison, executive director
of the Boys Club of Richmond, Virginia,
in his introduction to Stagecraft for
Boys Clubs, observes, “Drama directors
in boys clubs sometimes bemoan the
fact that the ‘older boy’ is not interested
enough in dramatics to participate ac-
tively. Why not try stimulating his in-
terest through stagecraft? It is surely
easier for the director to interest these
older boys in building scenery, lIan-
dling lighting and sound equipment
than it is to hand them several pages of
words to memorize. After working
backstage, these older boys usually want
to have an acting role in the produc-
tion.”

This is the key to a drama program.
Instead of “bemoaning,” a way is found
to engage the participant and to develop
his interest and enthusiasm. The drama
leader must have the ability to attract
and direct talents, however small or
great, into the pr0gram and into suit-
able channels. Drama activity, perhaps
more than any other art, affords oppor-
tunities for the individual to find a place
in the scheme of things and at the same
time develop as an individual.

PARTICIPATION IN DRAMA is a highly

personal thing. In drama it is not
possible to hide among a hundred in-
struments, a corps of dancers, or theo-
ries of creative painting. Few peeple in

the theater remain anonymous for long.”
The participant must speak, move, ges4:
ture, express mood and character. He‘
must think, understand, interpret, cre-
ate. In short, he must perform.
Knowing oneself and associates,
learning to control emotions, becoming
adept in the skills of the trade, acquir-
ing a sense of taste and discernment.
deve10ping a respect for discipline and
responsibility, gaining a life-long inter-
est and love for theater, and bringing
pleasure to others are all wound up to-l
gether for the participant in a first-class
drama pr0gram. Drama of this caliber‘
is recreation at its best, and a valuable‘
asset to the department, the community.
and the participant. ‘

Now LET us LOOK at some of the com-l

munity drama programs across the
country: In Oakland, California, drama
starts early. Playground directors are
trained to include a widervariety of dra- '
matic activities and games in their ev-
eryday program. Teen, young adult,
and adult groups are encouraged to de-
velop dramatic activities of all kinds, in-
cluding play productions where leader~
ship and facilities warrant. In Oak-
land’s two outdoor theaters, children’s
plays are presented weekly during the
summer. These performances are the
natural outlets for the plays developed
in the centers and on the playgrounds
with the help of a full-time drama spe-
cialist.

This specialist's work is now expand-
ing to include a Central Youth Theatrc
and Junior Theatre organizations. The
Youth Theatre stages a production in
January of each year, the Junior Thea-
tre in April, and the two combine efforts
for a summer production. These pro-
grams provide instruction in stage
movement, design (scenery, costumes,
lights), sound and music, construction
of pr0perties and sets, voice develop-
ment and acting.

Three skilled puppeteers Operate a
Vagabond Puppet Trailer during the
summer. In addition to scheduling three
puppet shows every afternoon during
the summer, the puppet staff conducts
concentrated instructions in puppetry,
similar to a worksh0p, reporting to the

 

i‘ 32 me center or playground for five con-
swutive mornings and working inten-
" si ver with the same group of children
0 ' youth.

The Bay area is fortunate in having
: 11 any active amateur and semi-profes-
' s onal drama groups. The Oakland Rec-
I raation Department, in expanding its
P ians for drama, is making every effort
t I avoid duplication of services. What
i.. even more important, it is making
6 very effort to provide meaningful, var-
izd drama opportunities for all age
groups, and at all stages of skill pro-
gression. It is also making every effort
t) provide young and old with new ex-
jeriences in coordinating drama with
the other cultural arts.

Drama and dance in San Francisco,
California, have headquarters in the
Recreational Arts Building and the rec-
reation and park department includes a
drama division. The first step in drama
on playgrounds is storytelling. The
Golden Gate Story League and the Sto-
ryland Story League, each sponsored by
the department, provide a constant flow
of trained storytellers. They are cos-
tumed by the department when they are
assigned, as a public service, to tell sto-
ries in hospitals, orphanages, and for
the handicapped. Story play, or creative
drama, is a natural outgrowth of story-
telling. It culminates in the annual
Story Play Festival and Contest held at
Sigmund Stern Grove in late August.
To encourage naturalness and creativ-
ity, no props or costumes are allowed.

Junior drama groups are conducted
on playground units in various neigh-
borhoods, the type of drama depending
upon ages and skill level. For those
youngsters with great interest, a junior
drama group, organized 011 a city-wide
level, meets in the Recreational Arts
Building. Ages range from six to twelve,
and no fee is charged. Creative drama,
stage terminology, voice projection,
play reading, set designing and costum-
ing are included. For teenagers and
adults with a deep interest in drama as
a performing art, the recreation and
park department provides opportunities

for participation at the Recreational
Arts Building.

 

The youngest group in the Junior Theatre operated by San Diego, California, holrl
an informal rehearsal and tackle the script of Bobino with professionaleclat.

’ I ‘HE CHILDREN’S THEATRE of Wash-

ington, D.C., is governed by a vol-
untary and nonprofit executive board
operating under the auspices of the Dis-
trict of Columbia Department of Rec-
reation. This board is in its sixteenth
year of operation and is expanding to
service the entire city. The belief that
children must be exposed to the theater
and to experiences in the various forms
of art before they can appreciate the
arts has been the guiding light in the
development of the children’s theater
program.

Productions are staged in a central
auditorium from October through May.
The projects of this group have resulted
in a fourfold program. Each season at
least three professional productions are

presented for the young audience. The
executive board selects the best of the
professional companies which design
and enact plays for children only. This

is Phase One.

Phase Two is carried out in conjunc-
tion with the various recreation centers
throughout the city. An opportunity is
provided for the children of these cen-
ters to volunteer for participation in two
other productions for live audiences.
Members of the staff of the recreation
department organize and direct these
productions.

An annual “WorkshOp for Children’s
Theatre” is Phase Three of the program
and is provided to increase the “know-
how” of the directors and leaders of the
recreation centers. The workshop is

“V __ -4 . ( I Q

'  _ ~-; ti a...“ " ~ ._.  A. ‘ .7 ,. i. r *‘u
Tom Sawyer tries out his tricky fence-pai ntin g maneuver on his friends during

a summer drania production on one of the thirty-one supervised playgrounds
and parks of the South Bend, Indiana, Department of Public Recreation.

  

The children’s theater adjacent to the Arroyo Viejo Recreation Center in
Oakland, California, is an ideal site for outdoor presentations. Here a full
house enjoys a surnzner production of that all-time favorite Peter Pan.

Au

   
     

conducted by qualified professional
people in the creative arts field. An at-q
tempt is made to provide the partici-'
pants with skill and knowledge in.
speech, movement, staging, lighting,
makeup, and direction of plays.

The last phase of the program is the
annual One-Act Play Festival which.
provides the opportunity for those per-
sons attending the annual workshop to
culminate their study and activity by
directing a one-act play. Each play is
produced for a live audience and the

best directed play receives the Sibyl
Baker Award.

IN MEMPHIS, TENNESSEE, the drama

program of the recreation depart-
want is child-centered. Its children’s
theater program, eight years old, has
finally acquired its own building. Any
child from public, private, or parochial
school, first grade through twelfth, is
welcome as a member. With a trained
drama specialist in charge, the children
run the Children’s Theatre. They elect
their own oHicers, choose their own
plays, form their own committees for
casting, handle their own publicity and
ticket sales. They not only do all the
acting, but also all the backstage work.

Before a youngster joins the Chil-
dren’s Theatre, he or she probably has
had a taste of drama on the playground.
Classcs in creative dramatics give prac-
lice in working out plots, and character-
izations lead to the selection of a story
that the children decide to deve10p into
a pageant. The pageant marks thc end
of the playground season, and is one of
[he big events of the year. An orchestra,
chorus and dancers are added. Usually
around five hundred childrcn take part,
and they play to an audience of four
thousand. Informal dramatics form
part of the day camp and playground
program. Dramatic games like cha-
rades are used purposcly to arouse in-
terest in drama, and to encourage pan-
tomime and improvisation.

ONE CHARACTERISTIC of the cultural

arts program of the Bureau of
Parks and Public Recreation in Port-
land, Oregon, is the interlocking of
drama, dance, and music. Drama in

Pthland is provided for different age
g 'oups and for varying degrees of skill
a 1d interest. On the neighborhood level,
0 lildren, youth and adults have the op-
]thunity to meet as special intercst
groups, and work on various types of
( rama, such as one-act plays, improvisa-
l ons, three-act plays, and the like.

Teenagers with special talent or in-
t:rest who wish to explore the theater
: rts more deeply are encouraged to en-
lOll in Portland’s Theatre Workshop, a
training and production center. Each
joungster appears before a group of
Ivaluators, and on an individual, con-
:ultant basis, is sent to classes in the
workshop for additional assistance in
'nusic, dance, and voice.

The Theatre Workshop is under a
trained director whose assistant is a spe-
cialist in music. One of its responsibili-
ties has been the monthly half-hour, live
TV show in color. In addition to such

productions as Carousel and My Fair

Lady, the workshop has developed
scripts, choreography, costumes, and
stage designs for five original produc-
tions.

In addition to the TV shows, this
group of teenagers is available to the
Portland Civic Theatre and to civic or-
ganizations who desire
small units, or complete shows. Teen-

age bands and choruses are also part of
the Theatre Workshop.

The Young Adult Players and the

Adult Players are a group of high
school and college students with previ-
ous drama experience. They have pro-
duced such plays as Blithe Spirit (eighty
hours rehearsal time), and Time Out
F or Ginger (forty hours rehearsal
time). With these two groups as nu-
cleus, the bureau of parks and public
recreation hopes to form a praiseworthy
and popular acting group for the bene-
fit of the community.

individuals,

For children around nine to ten years
old, the after-school puppet program at
Atkinson Community Center provides a
creative outlet for drama and handcraft.
Each child who starts classes in October
completes at least one stocking and one
glove puppet before beginning his hand
puppet to be used in the annual Christ-
mas puppet show. Imagination and cre-

ativity ale stressed. The stage itself is
constructed from a spinet piano box;
footlights are Christmas tree lights; cur-
tain and drapes are red-and-white flan-
nelette trimmed with white and silver

foil.

GREENSBURG, PENNSYLVANIA, with a
population of about twenty thou-
sand, has a Civic Theatre for adults
that is incorporated and self-supporting
with its own board of directors, but
sponsored by the recreation board. This
Civic Theatre is now five years old and
offers four types of membership—ac-
tive, (for those who wish to take an
active part in the preparation and pres-
entation of productions, $4) ; social,
(for those who wish to enjoy the pro-
ductions and the social activities of the
group, 354) ; patron, (for those who wish
to aid in the financial support and who
get two tickets for each production,
$10) ; and Sponsor (for business estab-
lishments who wish to help support the
Civic Theatre, $12; these get two tickets
to each production and are listed on the
program of each production.)

Drama for children, unlike the Civic
Theatre, is a summer program only. It
consists of a seven-week program for
youngsters hetween ten and thirteen
and is under the leadership of a leader
trained in speech, children’s theater,
and creative dramatics.

The program is twofold. At each of
the three playgrounds where classes are
conducted, a production club is formed,
the youngsters choosing their own name
for it. The first three weeks of the proj-
ect are devoted to creative dramatics.
The fourth week, the youngsters are in-
troduced to a more formal drama pro-
gram of simple acting and stage tech-
niques, using scripts. During that week
there are tryouts for three plays to be
produced on the traveling show wagon
during the last week of the playground
season. Each production club takes over
one of the plays, with members of that
group working as cast, stage crew, set
designers, makeup artists and costume
makers. The production clubs are Open
to all youngsters who wish to register.
The project comes to a climax with an
operetta.

DRAMA IS RECREATION

 

On January 1, 1959, the position of
supervisor of drama was creatcd in the.
Bureau of Recreation, Division of Parks
and Recreation of the Department of
Public Welfare, Dayton, Ohio. Up to
that time, drama activities had been a
part-time, hit-or-miss program. Under
full-time, professional leadership the
drama program has expanded. It now
includes the Dayton Community Thea-
tre, the Stoecklein Players, a Junior
Dramatic Theatre, a summer variety
show, TV programs of children’s plays
during the summer, storytelling, story
plays, festivals, and creative dramatics
for children. Properties for the drama
program now require an entire build-
ing, and it is bulging at the seams.

The Dayton Community Theatre is
primarily an adult group concerned
with all phases of play production—
acting, directing, scene design, set con-
struction and painting, publicity, prop-
erties, ticket sales and social functions.
It has its own board of directors elected
by its members. It has two types of
membership: active, for those over 21,
and junior for those 13-21. Fees are $5
and $2 respectively. The Stoecklein
Players is the oldest of four teenage
drama groups called the Day-Teen Play-
ers. Each of the four groups meets in
its “home” recreation center one or two
evenings a week for about two hours.

The bureau, analyzing the value of
drama to such teenage groups, says:
“. . . one of the primary benefits of such
a program is the appreciation that these
young men and women develop for the
skills and efforts of others in similar
endeavors. This carryover value will be
theirs for life, even if they themselves -
never pursue the performing arts. Our
theory is: one learns to appreciate more
in others when one has tried it himself
“whether in drama, music, athletics,
dance, cooking, or other activity.”

The goal of the summer drama pro-
gram in South Bend, Indiana, is “par-
ticipation, not perfection.” The depart-
ment of public recreation operates
thirty-one supervised parks and play-
grounds. Each presents a play during
the summer season. These are played
in the natural settings of the parks, usu-
ally start at 7:15PM, and take about

DRAMA IS RECREATION

 

 

Show wagon in Creensburg, Pennsylvania, is complete with thirty-foot folding
stage and electrical system. I t tours the playgrounds. More and more communi-
ties are acquiring such mobile equipment (see RECREATION, September 1960).

twenty minutes. Any child who wants
to participate in the play is given a part,
and many times parts are created or
added so as to include all who wish to
be in the cast.

ln Cincinnati, Ohio, the public rec-
reation commission operates sixty play-
grounds. Although facilities for drama
are limited, and are different in each
playground, almost all of them produce
some type of play or pageant as the cli-
max of the summer season. The ingenu-
ity and originality of both youngsters
and recreation leaders result in fine pro-
ductions that prove that a lot can be
done with very little. The fact that a
special supervisor is in charge of this
program is also an asset.
The emphasis is on enjoyment.
“Much can be done on playgrounds to
make dramatics fun and you need not
have a stage, elaborate costume or ex-
pert coaches to give the children this
wonderful type of activity.” Everyone
“gets into the act.” The youngsters
paint brown paper scenery, the older
boys are kept interested by using them
as stagehands. Mothers provide sheets
and blankets that become the curtains.
Extras become costume changers, ush-

ers, announcers, etcetcra. A lighted

baseball diamond makes a fine stage for

a Greek pageant. Togas are easy to
make. A basketball makes a “world”

for Atlas to carry on his shoulders.
Creek shields and spears add glamour
that attracts boys into the cast.

The Community Theatre in Palo Alto,
California, claims to be the only com-
munity theater in the United States that
is wholly tax-supported under a munici-
pality. As such, it accepts a dual re-
sponsibility; to provide quality enter-
tainment for a theater-going public
while offering creative eXpression and
social participation for all citizens. Its
success in its thirty years’ experience
has been outstanding, and an example
of the tremendous possibilities in drama
as recreation.

It is a division of the recreation de-
partment, governed by the citizens
through their elected members of the
city council, the city manager, and the
superintendent of recreation. An annual
budget of over $26,000 covers produc-
tion costs, maintenance, capital im-
provements, and the salaries of four em-
ployees, three full-time and one half-
time. In some years over $23,000 has
been returned to the city in revenues
from the theater’s own productions, and

from rentals of the facilities to other
organizations.

Such success did not arrive over-
night. It is the result of years of loving
effort. As far back as 1931, a group
called the Community Players produced
plays in an old frame building by the
railroad tracks. Their valiant eflorts
came to the attention of Mrs. Lucie
Stern, and, as a reward, she provided
the funds for the present theatre build-
ing, constructed as the first unit of Palo
Alto’s unique Community Center, on
parkland provided by the City.

The Community Players is the thea-
ter’s organization of volunteers who
elect nine members to an executive
board. This board assists the profes-
sional staff employed by the city in su-
pervising the participants in the thea-
tre’s many activities. Special commit-
tees encourage and stimulate wide par-
ticipation.

Physical facilities are excellent. They
include a lobby large enough to be used
as an exhibit gallery; an auditorium
with 418 comfortable, upholstered thea-
ter seats; a proscenium arch 26-by-14
feet; a stage 60-by-36 feet; twenty-four
llylines, nine of which are counter-
weighted, which run to a gridiron forty
feet above the stage floor.

The Community Theatre keeps itself
fresh and young by encouraging not
only adult participation but by offering
opportunities to young pe0ple. The Palo
Alto Teen Players, organized in 1948,
operate each summer under the super-
vision of the adult professional stall to
produce a full-length play. All phases
of the production are handled by the
teenagers.

The Palo Alto Children’s Theatre is a
theater by, with, and for children. The
program provides a wide range of
drama activities for youngsters five to
fifteen, including ten to twclve produc-
tions each year, including two or three
musical productions. The stage of the
Children’s Theatre is well-equipped with
lighting and staging facilities; the audi-
torium seats 208, and there are other
rooms for class activities, costumes, re-
hearsing and oflices.

ln community drama, everyone can
get into the act and sure is! #

Drama Is Recreation is based on infor-
mation and photographs supplied by
many individuals and agencies in the
field of recreation._ Grateful acknowl-
edgement is hereby extended to them
for their generous, helpful assistance.

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
COMMITTEE ON DRAMA

IN COMMUNITY RECREATION

(Liaison with American Educational
Theatre Association)

DAVID C. BRYANT
Director
Community Players and Civic Orchestra
Department of Public Recreation

Sheboygan, Wisconsin

RITA CRISTE
Director

Children’s Theatre of Evanston
The School of Speech

Northwestern University
Evanston, Illinois

DIANA R. DUNN
Acting Supervisor of Drama
Department of Public Welfare
Division of Parks and Recreation
Dayton, Ohio

MRs. MARGARET EDDINGTON
Drama Director
Department of Parks and Recreation
Richmond, Virginia

JOHN F. HAVENS
Jericho, New York
(Liaison-AETA)

MRs. LOTTIE LEWIS HOOK
President
The Children’s Theatre of Washington
Washington, D. C.

SISTER MARY IMMACULATE
Executive Secretary-Treasurer
National Catholic Theatre C onfererwe

Washington, D. C.

MRs. DOROTHY THAMES SCHWARTZ

Director
C hildren’s Theatre Conference
Birmingham, Alabama

WALLACE SMITH
Director of Auditorium Activities

Evanston Township High School
Evanston, Illinois

GRACE M. STANISTREET

Director
C hildren’s Center for Creative Arts

Adelphi College
Garden City, New York

ADELE THANE
Director

Boston Children’s Theatre
Boston, Massachusetts

Secretary

SIEBOLT FRIESWYK
C onsultant—Performing Arts
National Recreation Association

New York, New York

u
.—

Pamphlet Series—The Performing Arts as Recreation

Now is the time
to CULTIVATE

your

PERFORMING
ARTS
PROGRAM

Order in QUANTITY LOTS

No. I—— MUSIC IS RECREATION
No. II—DRAMA IS RECREATION

—- The Right Tools for the Job —

 

Use with
Your staff Your board or commission
Advisory Committees Citizen- committees
Clubs Planning groups
And for
Fundraising Promotion of bond issues
Publicity Selling recreation
Education Training of volunteers
Program Planning Telling your story

Current prices as applied to each title

Single copies—$1.00 each—OR

II to 24 copies of the same title—$.85 each 0 25 or more—$.75 each
100 or over of the same title—$65 per hundred 0 Single copy—$1.00

Order from

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION 8 ‘V est Eighth Street, New York 11, N.Y.

@PROGRAM

 

The TRAVELING VEGETABLE

 

and OTHER
GAMES

“Latin American children play variations on games beloved the world over

J. D. McAulay
E S CHOOL CHILDREN in Latin America

play many of the same games as

children in the United States as
well as many indigenous ones. Some
games are found only in a particular
country; others are common to many
South American countries. Children
might wish to learn to play some of
these games when they study Central
and South America. Recreation leaders
can use them to add some international
flavor to their regular game programs
or special festivals and pageants.

One of the favorite games of children
in Costa Rica is Drop the Handkerchief.
It is played exactly as children in the
United States play it, except it is called
El Salero. Another favorite Costa Rican
game is La Legumie Via jera (The Trav-
elling Vegetable). It is a relay game.
The children are divided into teams. A
chair is placed at the head of each
team’s line and a pile of beans at the
other end. The players on each team
hold hands. The child at the end of the
line picks up a bean and without letting
go of hands, passes it to the next child.
If a bean is dropped, it must be picked
up by the person who dropped it. He
must continue to hold hands with the
child on each side of him. If any child
unclasps hands, the bean must be re-
turned to the pile and repassed. The
winning team first has all the beans
piled on the chair.

Another game often played in Costa
Rica is La Carréra del Padre de Familia,
(The Father’s Race). The playground

DR. MCAULAY is associate professor of

education at Pennsylvania State U ni-
versity in University Park.

FEBRUARY, 1962

is divided into several areas or sections
and the children divided into an equal
number for each area. The team that
picks up the potatoes in its area first
wins the game.

In Nicaragua beisbol (baseball) is a
favorite. The children select “a word.”
It may be the capital of a country, a
product of the nation, or the name of a
world statesman. The leader of the
game throws a ball to a player. As the
child catches the ball, he must name a
capital, a product, a statesman, or “the
word” that has been chosen. If he fails
to do so or gives a word another child
has already given, he is out of the game.
The child who remains in the game
longest becomes the next leader. An-
other game children play in this small
country is El Zorrillo (The Skunk). The
children form a circle. Each child holds
up one leg with one hand and his nose
with the other. One child, the skunk,
stands in the center of the circle. The
children keep repeating U f que mal
hirele el Zorrollo (how the skunk
smells). If any child drops a foot or
does not continue to hold his nose, he
can be tagged by the skunk and must
trade places with him.

HE CHILDREN of Colombia like to
play Pelota Envenenoda (Poison
Ball). This game is very popular in all
Latin American countries. Two teams
are formed, the children of one team

 

 

BROTHERHOOD WEEK
February 18-25

 

make a circle, the children of the second
team enter the circle. The children in
the circle throw a ball back and forth,
attempting to touch a child within the
circle with the ball. When all the chil-
dren in the circle have been tagged the
teams change places. Another favorite
is La Mantequilla (The Butter). The
children, called storekeepers, stand on
bases. One child is the shopper. He
moves from base to base asking Tiene
usted mantequilla? (Have you any but-
ter) . At each base he is denied. Mean-
time the storekeepers keep changing
bases. If, in the change, the buyer can
occupy a base, the storekeeper of that
base becomes a buyer.

El Gavilan y los Pollitos (The Eagle
and the Chicken) is played by the chil-
dren of Ecuador. One child is the old
mother hen, another child is the eagle.
The remainder of the children repre-
senting the chickens line up behind the
mother hen clasping their arms around
each others waists. The eagle must re-
main constantly in front of the hen. The
mother hen holds out her arms to pro-
tect the chickens as the eagle attempts
to touch them. The line of chickens
keeps moving back and forth to keep
out of the reach of the eagle. If a
chicken is touched he moves behind the
eagle. The last chicken tagged becomes
the eagle.

Another game the children of Ecua-
dor like is El Zorro y el Cone (The Fox
and the Rabbit). The children form a
circle. The game requires two balls.
The large ball represents the fox, the
small ball the rabbit. The balls are
passed from person to person. The
child who allows one ball to catch up

9]

with the other must leave the circle and

receive a penalty decided upon by the
children.

PRIMARY-GRADE CHILDREN in Hon-
duras often play Las Bandaras
Revoluten Ya (The Waving Flags) . The
children are divided into two equal
teams. The first child of each team has
a flag. He must move in and out of
each member of his team, down the line
and back to his original position, con-
tinually waving the flag. As the flag
waves, all the children chant Las Ban-
daras Revolaten Ya. Once the child with
the flag has returned to his place he
passes it to the next child who in turn
moves in and out, hack and forth be-
tween the children. The team wins the
game which first has every child carry
the flag.

Desconectos (Disconnected) is an-
other popular game not only in Hon-
duras but also in Argentina where it is
called Bandoleros y Policias (Bandits
and Policeman). Two teams are organ-
ized. The children on one team. the
bandits. take cover and the children on
the second team, the policemen, attempt
to catch them. Once a bandit is cap-
tured he is placed in a jail. A guard
from the policeman’s team protects the
jail. If a bandit can successfully touch
one of the prisoners saying Desconectos
without himself being touched by the
guard, everyone in the jail is freed. The
game continues until all the bandits are
in jail, then the teams change places.

In Guatemala. boys like to play Pele-
ade Callos (The Rooster Fight). Two
hoys enter a circle which has heen
traced on the ground. Each boy clasps
his hands ahout his knees and attempts
to push his opponent out of the circle.
However. if the hey who has been
pushed out of the circle quickly calls
out a product or an animal of the area
such as C hoclo or Queso he may re-enter
the circle and continue Peleatle Callas
without penalty.

ANOTHER GAME boys in Guatemala
and in all of Latin America like
to play is La Lata (The Can). which is
very similar to Hide-and-Seek as chil-
dren of the United States play it. One
boy who is It stands in front of a can
and shuts his eyes. He counts to a hun-

92

dred while the other boys hide. He then
searches for them. A player reaches
home base if he can pound the can and
shout La Econdida golpeo la lata (1
pound the Can) without being tagged.
The boy who is safe may throw the can
away and rehide if the child who is It
has left the can unprotected. This game
is played in the evening when children
may more easily hide in the shadows.

The children of Panama often play
Cato y Raton (The Cat and the Mouse).
A circle is formed with the children
holding hands. One child, the mouse,
is inside the circle. A second child, the
cat, is outside the circle. The cat at-
tempts to hreak through the circle to
catch the mouse. The mouse may move

 

outside the circle and stand behind (or
in front of ) any child who then hccomes
the mouse. If the mouse is tagged by
the cat, hoth change places. This game
can be traced directly to Spain. In Pa ra-
guay this game is called La Mosca y la
Alana (The Fly and the Spider).

Another game played in Panama is
Callina Ciega (The Blind Chicken). It
is very much like Blind Man's Bluff.
One child is hlindfolded. He then
reaches out and if he touches another
child asks que animales Hence en su
chacra? (what animals do you have on
your farm). The child who has been
tagged must then na1ne several animals.
If the blindfolded child names the
tagged child correctly. the two change
places.

' I ‘HE CHILDREN of Central and South

America often play their games in
the great public squares of the town.
Many games are associated with partic-
ular seasons or holidays. A favorite chil-

 

dren’s game on All Saints Day (Novem-
ber First) is El luego de Cocos (Game.
of Coconuts) . This is the beginning of
spring and the game is much like mar-
bles. A large circle is traced on the
ground. Several coconuts are placed
within the circle. Each player, in turn,
stands on a line some distance from the
circle. Using a coconut, much as one
would use a bowling ball, the child at-
tempts to knock as many coconuts as
possible out of the circle. If the thrown
coconut remains in the circle the player
is out of the game.

Another game played in the spring is
Agitando las Nueces (Shaking Nuts).
Two persons play. One says Cuantos

debo agregar? (how many must you
add). The second child listens to the

shaking nuts and answers Ud tiene un
numero par (you have an even num-
ber) . The palm is opened and if the
number of nuts is even the second child
takes all the nuts. But if the numher is
odd, he must pay the number of nuts -
that were in his Opponent’s hand.

Perinola (The Top) is a game often
played by Latin American children in
the public squares. A large pine cone
is used as a top. On one side of the
cone is printed the letter D for (leje
(leave) ; on the second side P for ponga
(put); on the third side, S for tome
(anms como puso (take as many as you
put in) ; and on the fourth side, T for
tome todo (take everything). Each
player places the same number of nuts
in a common pile and takes a turn in
spinning the cone. The letter displayed
by the cone when it stops spinning in-
dicates what action the player must
follow.

A native Indian game called Tzucuyu
is popular from Mexico to Chile. Chil-
dren locate the stnmp of a small tree.
The strong limb of a tree is located. A
hole is bored in its center and placed
over the stump. A boy sits on each end
of the limb. Each boy pushes his feet
against the ground and rotates the limb.
like a propellor, as fast as possible.

All Latin American boys play soccer
football. It is the national game of most
countries in Central and South Amer-
ica. And the people are most enthusi-
astic ahout it. But many of the games
played by the children are very similar

to those played by children in North
America. 1,4:

R ECREATION

 

   
   
 

1

It’s in the Bag, Dad

If that clown“ looks
like an old bag.
that’s just what he
is —— a paper gar-
ment bag from the
dry cleaners. Rec-
. reation leaders can
take a cue from the
Paper Bag Players,
a New York City
troupe, which cre-
ates a world of fantasy from a variety
of ordinary materials youngsters use in
everyday play. The players, who mime
a great deal in acting out their original
plays, feel that simple props and un-
cluttered scenery are the best devices
for captivating youngsters. Around this
idea is built a variety of short plays,
bagatelles based upon children’s jokes.
stories, paintings, and dances. A lace
(real or paper) tablecloth becomes a
gown for a princess: a large carton,
armor for a knight; paper bags can be
used as shoes, helmets, or masks; the
Sunday comics are a dancer’s skirt. Thc
performances are set up so that children
in the audience, can participate and be

wafted oil to Bagdad.

 

Turkish Delights

While a national park system has ex-
isted in Turkey for only two years, the
country now has twenty-five national
recreation areas. Hundreds of local
parks also provide greenery and refuge
from bustling cities, and two national
forest parks and a bird paradise offer
rural beauty to citizens and tourists.
The Turkish National Park Service has
developed one national historical park
and expects to organize about twenty-
five more within the next ten years.
Zekei Bayer, head of Turkey’s park
service, is currently a park management
student in Michigan State University’s

FEBRUARY, 5 '1962

/ A REPORTER’S

NOTEBOOK

Department of Resource Development.
His one-year stay is sponsored by the
European Productivity Agency.

Vacation Therapy

In Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, six-
teen mental hospital patients were given
vacations at a resort this past summer
to test an idea for speeding their recov-
ery. The patients were taken to a resort
near the hospital and were cared for by
four staff nurses and eleven Mental
Health Association volunteers. The pa-
tients enjoyed living among nonpa-
tients, wearing resort clothing, and par-
ticipating in outdoor activities. They
played ball and badminton. pitched
horseshoes. Some received Red Cross
beginners’ swimming certificates. Simi-
lar camps in Texas have shortened treat-
ment periods for some types of mental
patients.

Something Healthy
from Denmark

 

Danish gymnasts start (our in Greece.

A Danish gym team of sixteen col-
lege-age boys and sixteen girls is cur-
rently on tour in the United States. They
started in Athens, Greece, in September,
following with a series of performances
in Europe. The United States itinerary
includes Florida, Texas, Louisiana.

North and South Carolina. Ohio. Illi-

nois, Indiana, Wisconsin, Minnesota,
North and South Dakota, and Montana.
For information and bookings write to
the team’s director, Erik Flensted-Jen-

sen,  the Danish Information Oliice,
588 Fifth Avenue, New York 36.

Rocky Roundup

Each year over fifty thousand visitors
looking for rocks, fossils, and minerals
head for Prineville, Oregon, where a
program sponsored by the Prineville
Chamber of Commerce attracts rock-
hounds from all over the West. The
chamber owns twenty-six sites available
free of charge to rock collectors for
happy rock gathering.

Wishbones and Sugarplums
A wishbone tree created by thirty-

eight blind workers won acclaim in the
11th annual Festival of Christmas Trees
sponsored by Children’s Hospital of the
East Bay, Oakland. California. These
blind workers had collected wishbones
throughout the year, sprayed them with.
silver, and learned how to make tiny'
h00ps of red ribbon to put on the tree.
The workers used small manzanita
branches for their trees, making a base
of silver-sprayed plaster of Paris mold-
ed in a coffee-can shape.

Sing a Song of Litter
In Seattle. Washington. a recreation

center for retired persons recently con-
cocted a “Litter Tune” for the city coun-
cil. Members of the Hamilton House
intend the song to promote a general
sweep-up for the World’s Fair. Mrs.
Ethel Hartwick wrote the lyrics to the
tune.

Prettiest Train Ever Seen
In Kentucky, an arts-and-crafts train

of two remodeled cars chock full of
paintings. sculptnre. wood. and metal

{)3

work, pottery, weaving, and other of parks and recreation for quite a

crafts takes art to people who otherwise
might never see it. The train is wend-
ing its way through the state on a year-
long cultural odyssey. Kentucky, inci-
dentally, has created a Division of Arts
and Crafts and is allocating $20,000 for

the first year’s expenses.

Service for Seniors

0 In New York City, District 65 of the
Retail, Wholesale and Department Store
Union sponsored a course on retire-
ment which included information on
aging, what to retire to, pension plans,
mental health, and family relationships
in retirement, housing, and facts and
fiction about aging and health. Nearly
one hundred members enrolled in the
eight-week course.

0 Camping for Idaho senior citizens is
provided by the Lutheran Laymen’s
League which constructed a camp on a
volunteer basis. Camp activities in-
clude programs on aging, fishing, cook-
ing, and group games.

0 A rural bookmobile that specializes
in reading matter for senior citizens is
run by the Texas Rural Library Serv-
ice. This bookmobile service also in-
cludes loan recordings—popular, clas-
sical, religious, folk, and language.

PEOPLE IN THE NEWS

Dorothy Stearns, senior recreation
specialist for Los Angeles County, Cal-
ifornia, sets recreation events off with
a bang. Dorothy had been handling
fireworks for the county’s department

I

a»! h l
-g“  .
- ‘- L-
a
. .4
I ‘»

 

The lady is licensed for fireworks!
94

  

while, but the state recently decided all
persons in her profession must be ex-
amined and licensed for the work. She
passed with a blaze of glory and was
issued California State Pyrotechnic 0p-
erator License No. 1. She is the only
woman licensed to set off fireworks.

Dr. Sal J. Prezi-
oso, superintend-
ent of the West-
chester County,
New York, Recrea-
tion Commission,
was appointed to
the new post of ex-
ecutive officer for the county. Dr. Prezi-
oso will become an “alter ego” to
County Executive Edwin C. Michaelian
in managing departments, drafting pro-
grams, expanding parks, and making
speeches. Dr. Prezioso headed the
Scarsdale, New York, Recreation De-
partment from 1948 to 1955 when he
assumed the Westchester County post.

On January first the Westchester
Recreation and Park Commissions went
out of existence and their functions
were merged in a new Department of
Parks, Recreation and Conservation.
The acting commissioner of the new (le-
partment is Charles E. Pound, formerly
superintendent of the park commission.

 

George W'ard, di-
rector of the Saska-
toon Playgrounds
Association in Sas-
katchewan, Cana-
da, since 1930, was
recently named
Saskatoon’s new
parks and recrcation director. The post
was created in December when the city
council agreed to amalgamate the parks
department and playgrounds associa-
tion. A city commissioner called Mr.
Ward “one of the outstanding men in
Canada in his fielt .”

 

h

Who is the greatest recreation director
in the world? Crater is the greatest!
Thomas P. Grater of Ephrata, Penn-
sylvania! Recently the boys and girls
of Ephrata presented Tom with a plaque
inscribed, “To the Greatest Recreation

Director in the World.” The tribute

 

Crater the Great (right) receives his
plaque from Tony Kilkuskie (left).
president of the Ephrata Youth Council.

took place at the tenth anniversary cele-
bration of the Ephrata Recreation Com-
mission.

Dorothy Brockmon recently received
the Woman of the Year award given by
the Greenville, South Carolina, Chapter
of Links, Inc. Miss Brockmon was hon-
ored for her work in organizing Happy
Hearts Park and her activities with
other city parks.

Eivilul T. Scoyen, retired as associate
director of the National Park Service in
January after forty-six years of gov-
crnment service, most of it with the
National Park Service. Conrad L.
Wirth, director of the National Park
Service, in lauding Mr. Scoyen, de-
clared, “Through his devotion to the
cause of park conservation, [he] has
contributed significantly to the wise use
of America’s human and natural re-
sources. Among the national leaders in
the field of park management and con-
servation, he is almost unique in having
spent his entire lifetime in national
parks and related federal reservations.”

IN MEMORIAM

o WALTER B. DAIILBERC, director of
public relations for the Minneapolis
Park Board, died in December at the
age of fifty-one. He had been active in
athletic and recreation activities for
over thirty years.

0 MRS. EDITH BOLLINC GALT WILSON.
widow of President Woodrow Wilson.
died recently in Washington at the age
of eighty-nine. She had been a regular
contributor to the National Rccreatiou
Association since 1912.

RECREATION

 

IIOIIOOOIIOIOIIOIIIOII.

ADMINISTRATION

IIIIIOIOCOO

STATE and LOCAL DEVELOPMENTS

Elvira Delany

NEW JERSEY. The first federal laboratory for research
into sport fishing has been set up in a former base hospital
at Fort Hancock about midway down the long arm of the
Sandy Hook peninsula. It is the result of a Congressional
appropriation for study of the kinds of fish that are pursued
and sometimes caught by recreational fishermen. The lab
is operated by the Bureau of Sport Fisheries and Wildlife of
the Department of the Interior.

Intensive fishing for sport goes on all around this area.
There also are boat docks near by and many universities,
libraries and scientific facilities within easy reach. Director
of the new laboratory is the marine biologist Dr. Lionel A.
\Valford, well known among oceanographers as author of
the basic survey book Living Resources of the Sea. Dr.
Walford wants the laboratory to evolve into a center for
research into game fish where, not only government, but
university and foreign scientists can work together.

N E\V YORK. The-six-acre park to be completed this spring
by the North Hempstead Town Board in New Cassel will in-
clude a baseball field, picnic area, basketball courts, tennis
courts, a rink for roller and ice skating, wading pool, and
play area for young children. The town also plans to enlarge
its Bar Beach with more picnic, recreation, and parking
areas on fifty additional acres. It is also planning a swim-
ming pool and other facilities for Manorhaven Beach.

0 A new night-into-day exhibit in New York City’s Bronx

FEBRUARY, 1962

Zoo dramatically shows nocturnal mammals in full activity.
During daytime visiting hours, the cages of such night-
living mammals as pottos and galagos are suffused with red
light, which makes them believe it’s night and time to be
stirring. It is a great treat to see nocturnal mammals like
flying squirrels take long graceful leaps.

o The Associated Y.M.-Y.W.H.A. of Greater New York has

completed the first two of fifteen community centers in a
$12,000,000 program in the metr0politan area. Two other
centers are under construction, another will be started this
winter, three sites have been acquired, and seven additional
sites are being sought. At present, there are thirtyvone Y.M.-
Y.W.H.A.’s in metropolitan New York City, of which fifteen
are members of the Associated Y. The group has received _
donations of $3,000,000 for the construction program, and
is conducting a drive for the remaining $9,000,000 through
the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies.

The Y conducts programs for groups ranging in age from
nursery school up. The centers are open day and evening,
although usually they are closed from sundown Friday until
sundown Saturday in observance of the Jewish Sabbath.
Persons of all races and creeds can attend.

Average construction cost for a Y is $600,000. Total cost.
including land, equipment and various incidental expenses,
is about $830,000. Many of the services needed to accom-
plish construction—such as legal counsel, work supervision

and contract negotiations—are donated to the Y.
While the basic design of all the new Y’s is the same, some

95

variation is necessary to meet differing site requirements
and differing needs of the people served by the individual
Y’s. Most interior spaces are designed to serve more than
one purpose. A gymnasium doubles as an auditorium. An
exercise room serves as a dance studio. Craft rooms can be
used for several activities—woodworking, painting, and
pottery. The same room can be used by widely differing
age groups at different times of the day.

Building materials used in the Y’s are not elaborate.
Acoustic tile is used without plaster --backing. Painted
cinder hlocks form walls. While interior layouts of the vari-
ous Y’s are similar, the exteriors vary considerably. The
outside of each building is designed to blend with other
structures in its neighborhood.

OHIO. The Winton Woods Archery Center of the Hamil-
ton County Park District is now a thing of the past. After
watching steadily declining patronage year by year at the
Archery Center. which saw the 1961 attendance less than
half that of 1960, the district’s board of park commissioners
decided not to continue subsidizing this activity and elimi-
nated the facility from the park. With the reduced funds
available to the district after the defeat of levies in 1960 and
1961, the hoard has been studying the facilities, operations.
and programs provided by the park district in an effort to
make savings wherever possible.

The Winton Woods Archery Center was established dur-
ing World \Var II and enjoyed heavy patronage immedi-
ately following the war years. However, after this initial
surge of play, the sport has seen a steadily declining attend-
ance. The center has been the home shooting grounds for
many champion archers of local. state, national, and even
international fame. For the time being, the board of park
commissionch has stated that next spring the area will
probably be converted into some reservable picnic areas.
which have proved so popular since their inauguration.

TEXAS. Thé giant McGee Bend Dam project near Jasper
will include twenty-eight recreation areas from fifty to fifteen
hundred acres. The first clearing phase is already under way
on what will eventually be the largest dam and reservoir
within the borders of the Lone Star state. Its cost has been
estimated at $61,000,000. Construction on tho multi-
purpose project is about thirty-seven percent complete, with
$8,900,000 scheduled to be spent for dam and reservoir
work this fiscal year. Involved in this phase of the job are
six thousand acres of pineland and brush, which has been
divided into four sections for an “experiment.”

The McGee Bend project, which will halt almost all flood-
ing on the Angelina River, is expected to be completed by
March, 1965. The building of the dam ten miles northwest
of Jasper and forty-eight miles southeast of Lufkin will back
up water over 114,500 acres of what once was forests. Large
recreation facilities, including fishing, boating, picnicking.
swimming, and hunting will be opened up by the completion
of the huge dam-reservoir.

WEST VIRGINIA. Taking what one nature recreation

specialist termed “a hard. realistic look” at the development

96

potential of state forest lands, a variegated group of West
Virginians recently set out to assess the problems facing
their state’s forest lands. The occasion was West Virginia’s
“First Forestry Forum,” held on the campus of West Vir- '
ginia University in Morgantown. George H. Breiding, na-
ture education director of Oglebay Institute, Wheeling, led
a special workshop session on “Recreation and Its Relation-
ship to Forest Lands.” Participating in workshop discus-
sions were representatives of the state government, public
utilities. civic organizationsrthe'federal government and
private institutions.

The workshop session formulated a set of seven recom-
mendations through the use of which West Virginia—and.
her sister states—can more fully realize the forestry recrea-
tion potential. These recommendations include:

1. Interest private capital in investing in recreational
areas and facilities in areas where it is not possible for gov-
crnment agencies to do so.

2. The services of certain public agencies such as divi-
sion of state parks. and the recreation department of West
Virginia University must be made available on a consulting
and assisting basis to agencies and individuals desirous of
such help.

3‘. Establishment of a state-wide interagency recreation
council of agencies and individuals to coordinate and make
long-range plans.

4. Make the public more recreation conscious in order
that they will influencc legislators to provide funds and
means for promoting recreation.

5. Provide access roads in major recreation areas and
build passing lanes and parking areas on grades through
scenic sections of the state.

6. Local chamber of commerce and board of trade organ-
izations should help plan for adcquate lodging and suitable
eating places in each community.

7. Work for a more equitable distribution of recreation
facilities in the state.

\VISCONSIN. The first major land acquisition in the

cigarette-tax recreation program. a 1.600-acre site on the
White River near Ashfand, has been approved by Governor
Nelson. The White River headwaters area, purchased at a
eost of $144,000 is intended for recreation and research. It
contains a trout fishery, springs that flow 30.000 gallons per
minute, and resort buildings which may be used as a train-
ing center.

The bill, called by Governor Nelson “the most important
single act by the Wisconsin Legislature in the past quarter
century” earmarks $50,000,000 for outdoor recreation re-
sources in the next ten years. The program is financed by a

one-cent-per-pack cigarette tax increase.

The Wisconsin law provides $33,000,000 for park and
wildlife habitat and $2,500,000 for youth conservation
camps. In the bill are monies for the preservation of scenic
beauty, the creation of new lakes in southwestcrn Wisconsin.
$1,000,000 for new city parks, and funds for tourist infor-
mation centers. In addition, recreation facilities in forest
crop lands, funds for planning, and a survey of the Lake
Superior area’s recreation potential are included.

RECRE’A'rloV

II
|

 

A HOME
FOR THE RANGE

[INTER SAFETY TRAINING programs are carried on by
H many organizations throughout the country. Leaders
in this field teach gun safety, sportsmanship in hunt-
ing, respect for property, and other rules of the hunting
sport. The result saves lives and makes hunting a more en-
joyable recreation activity to all who participate. In St.
Cloud, Minnesota, the Tri-County Rifle Club and the Vet-
erans of Foreign Wars are extremely active in this regard.
The former actually teaches the firing of rifles and for the
past few years has used an old armory for its classes. With
the advent of increased reserve training, the club was held
to a minimum use of the facility. This resulted in many
problems and for a while the training program was in dan-
ger of being dropped.

Problems always bring about investigating committees
and this was done. In searching for a new and permanent
site, the committee found the possibility of using an under-
ground water basin in the old city water plant. In 1957, a
new water plant had been constructed in St. Cloud, leaving
the old plant to be used as a garage and for storage. The
basement of this plant, which contained some eight com-
partments for settling water, was converted into storage
areas. With the cooperation of the water superintendent,
Fred Theilman. the committee saw the possibility of a fifty-
foot range with a ten-foot firing line as well as a 25'-by-20’
classroom. The old plant is located on the Mississippi River
somc eight blocks from the business district.

With this area in mind, the committee made up a list con-
taining information on their training program, the amount
of local interest, the future needs of such a program, how
the program would operate under the recreation department
and the need for such a facility in St. Cloud. Included in
the need of such a facility was the fact that the police de—
partment had just lost its outdoor range to a sanitary fill
project. Thus, the establishment of a range would not only
be of recreation value, but would also provide a practice
site for law enforcement agencies. The list was presented
to the city council on April 9, 1959. The council referred
it to the park and recreation board which accepted the plan
but stated that there were no public funds available to assist
the club. With the board’s approval, thc city council allowed
the request. At this point, Mr. Theilman explained that some
of the concrete work necessary for deve10ping a garage
would also aid in developing the range. This was also ap-
proved.

Thc committee realized that this project was going to be
a big one and it needed help. On March 21, 1960. a meet-

FEBRUARY, 1962

@ADMINIS TRATI ON

 

;

3......
c l

D
- '\
u. .
g-
1..
O

 

.» _ o i’ _ J ‘ "
-  s. -. a
P ' I  '-  -. 1 .-r...  I ‘- II

nos

Underground water basin in an unused city water plant gets
converted into rier range for recreation and police use.

 

Everyone pitched in to make project a success. Rifle range
was community effort. Labor and equipment were donated.

ing was held with representatives from the recreation de‘
partment, police department, local division of the State

Highway Patrol, the Wildlife Club and the Tri-County Rifle
Club present. The following month, the East Side VFW Post
4847 joined the ranks and work began on a full-time basis.

A wall (including observation windows) and a door was
put in by members of the Tri—County Club. Scraping down
walls and painting was also taken on by the club. Lighting
was put in by a member of the Wildlife Club. The St. Regis
Paper Company donated some 3,900 square feet of dryer
felt which was installed as an acoustical material by the East
Side VFW. The custom-Inade backstops were made and in-
stalled in cooperation with the local Trojan Playground
Manufacturing Company. Chairs, light fixtures and other
furniture was acquired from the St. Cloud School Board. An
8’-by-10'-by-25' concrete floor was laid by the East Side
VFW to level off the firing line. Another door was installed
by the Rifle Club. Policemen rehabilitatcd old lockers. The
Wildlife Club and Rifle Club installed two gas heaters—and
the job was done! #

97

 

I From the Oregon Recreation and
Parks Annual Conference held in Port-
land last fall have come several good
ideas worth passing along. J. C. Toman,
chief of the recreation section at the
Roseburg, Oregon, Veterans Adminis-
tration Hospital, is to be thanked for the
following:

Archery Backstop—A backstop for
archery has been constructed to hold
bales of cedar tow eight feet high and
twenty feet long. Chicken wire covers
the front of the bales. Individual tar-
gets, or a large piece of canvas with
three painted targets, make an excel-
lent range. The bales have been in use
five years with a minimum of upkeep.

Batter’s Boxes—Permanent batter’s
boxes have been constructed out of one-
by-threes and strips of old inner tubes.
The one-by-threes are treated with paint
or preservative. Three strips of inner
tubes four inches wide are cut from the
center section of an inner tube.

Small staples are used to fasten the
inner tube to the one-by-threes. A length
of half-inch dowel is placed on the edge
of a one-by-three. The strip of inner
tube is placed over the dowel and sta-
pled securely at one end. This raises the
inner tube slightly above the edge of
the board.

Stretch the inner tube the length of
the one-by-three and staple the other
end in the same manner. Then staple
the inner tube as you move the dowel
along the edge of the board. When fin-
ished, the rubber can be painted with
white sidewall-tire paint. The batter’s
box is then nailed together and set in
the ground with the top of the rubber
level with the ground. These hoxes can
be used an entire season without re-
painting.

Marking Foul Lines—To make the
foul lines, two-by-fours or lengths of old
garden hose painted white can be set
in the ground. If the garden hose is

used, it may be fastened down with
large wire staples.

Carnival Booths—To construct
booths for carnivals, stretch a wire the
length of the auditorium eight feet high
and eight or ten feet from the wall; also,

MR. TODD is assistant field director
0/ the National Recreation Association.

98

Arthur Todd

stretch another wire along the wall.
Strings can be tied to the wires to make
the outline for the booths. Crepe-paper
streanlers and decorations can be fas-
tened to the wire and strings to decorate

the booths.

Party Boxes—To prepare for parties.
plywood boxes have been constructed
and equipped with the necessary games
and supplies. For example, for a bridge
party the box contains bridge decks,
pencils, score cards and bridge tips.
Boxes have been made for fly tying,
Monte Carlo, cribbage, chess and check-
ers, quiz programs, table games, Speech-
crafters Club and for various other so-
cial activities.

I Gordon Hunsaker, superintendent of
parks, recreation, and forestry in Hazel
Park, Michigan, has written us about a
“Bucking Horse” which he and his staff
developed: “Our department needed a
‘Highlite’ for its summer playground
program culminating activity. As our
playground supervisor, Rick Croteau,
and l were walking through our largest
park we spotted an oil drum leaning
against a storage building. Onc gleam
in the eye led to another—and on a
scrap of paper we drew rough plans.

“The oil drum was to be suspendcd,
about one foot off the ground, with
metal cables attached to four steel posts
cemented into the ground. The drum
and cahles would be heavily padded.
A real Wcstern-type saddle would he
placed on the drum. A child would
mount the horse and a playground
leader would be stationed at each cablc.
As the leaders would shake the cable up
and down and sideways, the “horse”
would buck and weave.

“With the parks crew doing the in-
stalling, the ‘horse’ was ready for test-
ing in two days. Light sand was scat-
tered around and under the ‘horsc’ to
take up the shock for those bucked off.
Rick climbed aboard, took the bridle
reins in hand, anchored his feet in the
stirrups, took off his cap, and rodc!
With four persons tugging and pulling
on the cables he was given a truly wild
but safe fun ride.

“The bucking horse held up under
the riding of over four hundred young-
sters under supervision during our cul-

minating activity and is still in top con-
dition after many weeks of unsuper-
vised activity.

“We feel that we have developed a
piece of equipment which is durable,
imaginative and inexpensive. We are
now installing them in all of our thir-
teen play areas.” #-

 

An oil drum and a gleam in the eye led
to the development 0/ this “Bucking
Horse” [or the Hazel Park playgrounds.

 

Ready [or testing. Heavily padded oil
drum is attached with metal cables to
[our steel posts cemented in ground.

 U 9 g ,

Ride ’im, cowboy! During playground
“rodeo,” the winner stayed on exactly
nine seconds. A wild but safe [an ride.

RECREATION

 

 

PERSONNEL

 

W. C. Sutherland

SEVENTH NATIONAL INSTITUTE

THE Seventh National Institute for
public recreation and park admin-
istration will be of special interest to
.those executives in small and large de-
partments who desire to prepare for
larger executive positions or who wish
to improve the environment and elli-
ciency of their present offices in the city
hall and community center buildings.
The Institute, sponsored by the Na-
lional Recreation Association, will be
held September 29 and 30, 1962 in Phil-
adelphia, prior to the 44th National
Recreation Congress. The theme this
year will be “Oilice Administration,
Management, and Procedures.”

Planning for the Institute is being
done with the full cooperation of the
National Ollice Management Associa-
tion. William H. Latham, NOMA’s ad-
ministrator of technical and program
service, will serve as the Institute con-
sultant, and NOMA’s executive direc-
tor, William T. Cavanaugh, will be the
opening speaker.

One of the important sessions will
deal with the physical planning and lay-
out of oHice space, with special attention
to space standards (for various types
of oHice personnel); office furniture
(types and arrangements, movable par-
titions, sliding closet doors, recessed fil-
ing cabinets and other space savers);
also with the reception area, decorating
schemes, maintenance factors, lighting,
heating, air conditioning, music, dirt,
noise, etcetera. It will discuss the re-
search that h’as been done regard-
ing these and other factors affecting
the performance and efficiency of em-
ployees.

Kenneth Ripnen, of the Ripnen Com-
pany, Inc., New York City, will handle
the session on oflice space planning. He
is one of the outstanding men in the
ficld with his own company and staff of
architects. He organized and adminis-
tered the space-control operations for
the War Department which involved
125 organizations, 64,000 pe0ple in 60
buildings, including the Pentagon. His
book, Office Building and 0§ice Layout
Planning and his popularity as a
speaker distinguish him as one of the
foremost leaders in his field.

The National Institute will also fea-

MR. SUTHERLAND is director of the Na-
tional Recreation Association Recrea-
tion Personnel Service.

FEBRUARY, 1962

ture Mona Sheppard, author of Plain
Letters and vice-president of Lehigh
and Company, Inc., management con-
sultants. Her systems and methods for
better letter programs are reported to
be making great savings to important
organizations. At the Institute, she will
deal with “Correspondence Manage-
ment,” including such topics as tech-
niques of dictating, developing personal
letters, and the use and control of form
letters.

Other important subjects and person-
nel will include: “OHice Equipment”
(advantages and disadvantages of vari-
ous types of equipment) by Albert Pri-
oletta of the New York Port Authority;
“Systems and Procedures” by Jack R.
Crowley of the Reuben H. Donnelley
Corporation; “Design and Control of
Forms” by Gibbs Myers of General Pre-
cision, Inc.; “Personnel Management”
by Robert J. Erler of Air France; “How
the Oiiice Management Function Aids
the Recreation Function” by Robert
Crawford, commissioner of recreation
in Philadelphia. Personnel for other
subjects, such as “Mailing Procedures”
and “Records Management and Filing
Systems,” are still under consideration.

A later issue of RECREATION will
carry a more complete report on the
total program and its personnel.

NEW PERSONNEL SERVICE

The National Recreation Association
now offers a special personnel listing
for Associates who would like to take
advantage of its job placement service.
For a $5.00 annual fee (in addition to
the regular Associate membership fee)
Associates will be listed for “active per-
sonnel service.” This means a conl'i-
dential professional record will be
maintained with the NRA Recreation
Personncl Service when the Associate
completes apprOpriate forms and his
credentials are reviewed and summar-
ized. He will then personally receive
notices of vacancies which comply with
his specific interests and qualifications.

The Associate then applies directly
to the agency involved indicating that
he is doing so at NRA’s suggestion and
that his credentials are available at
NRA. For detailed information and
forms, write to the Recreation Person-
nel Service, NRA, 8 West Eighth Street,
New York 11. New York.

You can raise $500
or more in 6 days
this easy way

 

Sell famous llIason

Candies and in 4 to 15 days
your group can make

$300 to $2,500

For complete information fill in and mail
us the coupon shown. If you decide to go
ahead you don’t risk a cent,—you pay noth-
ing in advance. We supply on consignment
your choice of THREE VARIETIES of famous
Mason -Candy. At no extra charge each
package is wrapped with a band printed
with your organization's name and picture.
You pay after you have sold the candy and
return what you don’i sell. Candy is sold
at less than regular retail price. You make
$12.00 on every 30 sales of our $1.00 box
(66%% profit to you on cost). There's no
risk! You can’t lose. Mail in coupon today

for information about MASON’S PROTECTED
FUND RAISING DRIVES. '

I. ______________ __
Mr. GEORGE Rsuscn, Dept. RM-2 1

Mason, Box 549, Minedla, N .Y.

Gentlemen: Please send me, without
obligation, information on your Fund
Raising Plan.

Name

I
I
l
l
I
l
l
I Age if under 21
l
l
l
l
l
L

 

Address
Organization
Phone

 

 

l

Mason Candies, Inc., Mineola, L. 1., N.Y.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 99

PREL UDE S to A C TI 0N

—Or a few words on how to make the new series of pamphlets
on The Performing Arts as Recreation work for you

“There’s nothing in the world, but thinking makes it so”
(with apologies to William Shakespeare).

Are you, members of your board and committees, staff.
and the people in your community thinking about music and
drama in the recreation program? Have you been concerned
about recreation’s responsibility for promoting satisfying
interests for the new leisure time?

If you want to include the performing arts in your ex-
panding program, the two new pamphlets published by the
National Recreation Association, Music Is Recreation and
Drama Is Recreation ( see Page 75), are especially designed
to help you and to stimulate action. They will provide you
with up-to-date information about what other recreation de-
partments are doing in these fields and outline the first steps
to get your own ideas under way. Why not put these pam-
phlets’ into the hands, hearts, and minds of your community
planners and leaders and see how helpful they can be?

USE THEM TO:

0 Explain what you would like to do in your community.
0 Raise funds for your proposed program.
0 Act as springboards for discussions. radio and TV pro-
grams, and news items.
0 Interest new people in your recreation program.
0 Interest other local organizations in doing a cooperative
program.
0 Show what a recreation department can do along these
lines.
o Illustrate the full range of recreation activities.

Most important of all. Music Is Recreation and Drama Is

“~— _--—--‘-—«-—-- -—--—-——-—--v -———-r—--rw—‘ +—-_—-—v-—-—~—— '-

‘Appeart-d in the May 1961 aml lit-lunar) l9b2 issues of Rscnunos
as a bonus to magazine subscribers. Now available separately at $1.00
each.

THEATRICAL SUPPLIES

Theatrical Make-up
Stage Hardware
Lighting Equipment
Wigs

Scenic Fabrics
Scenic Paint

Prefabricated Scenery
Sound Effect Records

Film Strips - Books

Doorman/LL

THEATRICAL SUPPLIES

32 W. 20th Street New York 11, N. Y.

free Catalog

‘100 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

Recreation offer student, teenager, senior citizen groups and
other men’s and women’s organizations a fresh look at what
is going on today and an opportunity to enlarge their pro-
gram horizons. They will discover in their discussions of
these pamphlets an inspiring recreation philosophy, the full
scope of what is being done and can be done, and a host of
new ideas which can lead into positive action.

TO START:

0 Suppose you want to initiate a music project. Is there any
reason why you should not start something new and ask the
community and its leaders for their support? The music
pamphlet will serve immediately as a means -of orientation
for potential supporters and acquaint them with the benefits
of such activities to the community.

0 Perhaps you have a big project in mind—a performing
arts center, an outdoor theatre, a bandshell, or new lighting,
sound, or other major equipment accessories. Maybe the
only way to get these necessities is by means of gifts or a
bond issue. The needs must be interpreted, as you know,
and these pamphlets are designed to help you do the job.

* * * '.'
Be up-to-date. Make Music Is Recreation and Drama Is
Recreation. serve a practical purpose for you. Don’t let the
opportunity to use them constructively slip by. Let them

provide a real PRELUDE TO ACTION! it

———-—--—-’—u——-——-_—-—

My Philosophy of Recreation

Continued from Page 59

 

lull evening hours in his air-conditioned, remote-lighted.
electronically engineered living room, furnished in stunning
late 20th century aluminum and fiberglass! Such a situation
shrieks for some taste of the old, some comfortable contrast
to the coldly efficient, brassily chic setting of his place of
husincss.

I make no pretense at being an historian, and I am not
espousing all of history as being worth emulating. But, as I
said earlier, the turn of the 19th-20th century and shortly
thereafter saw, in this country in particular, an uns0phisti-
cated and outgoing public attitude wherein the stroll, the
picnic, the concert-in-the-park, and the barbershop quartet
hit as they never hit before or after. A recapturing of this
spirit and taste for simple, unfettered recreation is a goal
toward which I shall strive, and I would hope. other pro-
fessionals would too. When mixing that “potpourri” that
becomes the local, year-round public recreation program,

flavor the new with a liberal salting of the old. The resulting
“Mulligan” can be delicious. #

RECREATION

 

CIOCOOOOOOOOIOOOIOIIIIIO

  
   
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
    
   
    
  

 
  
 
 

«:EEE

.4I.‘=§:
:::: . :

III-III-
IIII 7 I

1"! .:

9 All

JIII:
‘IIII

 
 
     
 
 

   
 
 
  
 
 

 
   
    
     
 
  

I
E}

 
 
      
 

  

I.

I.“
IIIL
‘II II'

Qlilllif(ClClilJliizélCIFUIW(:)JPUF

DIGEST

 

The Community Festival

John Climer

ANY ONTARIO COMMUNITIES have
M held music and drama festivals
or art-and-crafts shows for a
number of years. The community festi-
val that serves as a showcase for a wide
range of cultural activities is a relatively
new development. This new kind of co-
ordinated festival program has sprung
from the need to create a larger; and
more appreciative audience for the
work of many minority interests. It can
provide for the maturing of promising
performers, through the provision of
professional leadership, and lack of fi-
nancial concern.

The Ottawa Department of Recrea-
tion and Parks has sponsored a comm u-
nity festival during July and August for
the past three years. During those years
the festival has grown into an important
event with an ever-growing audience

MR. CLIMER is supervisor of city-wide
activities, Department of Recreation
and Parks, Ottawa, and has been closely
connected with the Ottawa Municipal
Art Centre. Digested with permission
from, the Community Courier. April-

M ay-] ane, 1961.

FEBRUARY, 1962

A showcase for a 'wide range of cultural activities

and a notable improvement in standards
of quality.

Lakeside Gardens, where Ottawa’s
community festival is held, is a new rec-
reation hall on the shore of Lake Des-
chenes. The new building opened in
1958 and the first community festival
was held that year.

The first program was presented after
a great deal of discussion but without
too much actual preparation. There was
a group of musical events, orchestral
concerts, recitals and jazz concerts.
These were offered free to the public
through the use of a trust fund avail-
able to the Musicians’ Union and pro-
vided by the recording industry. Un-
usual and award-winning films were al-
so shown, and the work of well-known
Ottawa artists was shown in several ex-
hibits. Puppet shows for children were
performed weekly in thc building. The
Westboro Kiwanis Club operated a se-
ries of dances that featured a local or-
chestra. The following year” it was de-
cided to charge a small admission fee
in the hope of securing a revolving ac-
count that would allow for enlargement

1.

l

l

of the program and for raising its stand-
ards. _

In the summer of 1959 the festival
presented programs of outstanding Ca-
nadian musical artists as well as the best
local musicians. The drama groups of
the district became interested and eight
of the foreign embassies in Ottawa of-
fered intercsting films. This festival
had a season of eight weeks. It involved
more than two hundred artists and be-
came one of the most notable artistic
successcs ever promoted in the area.

In 1960 a revolving budget of $2500
was established. By this time many art-
ists were coming to us for assistance
and many local groups were showing a
continuous interest. We concentrated
on the work of local artists and, because
of the artistic success of the 1959 pro-
gram, we insisted on maintaining the
highest standards. In each division 8
definition of the festival’s standards was
made and the result was in direct op-
position to what might be termed “mass
appeal.”

Summer art classes were established

Continued on Page NM

101

Looking at the World . . .
THROUGH MEDIEVAL GLASSES

 

,—._

Stained glass panels oger a whole nea realm [or c reatit'ity. Brilliant colors excite children’s imaginations.

Pearl Greenherg

HE STUDY OF medieval times pre-

T sents many stimulating possibili-

ties for art correlation. Among

these are mosaics, frescoes, and stained
glass.-

What excitement the children dis-
played when we first discussed stained
glass! We had the glass pieces I donated
by a stained glass designer). clear glass
panels to work on, a glass cutter, rubbcr
mallet, newspapers, Soho. and brushes
for gluing.

W e had visited the Metropolitan Mu-
seum and the Crafts Museum in New
York City and seen the many stained
glass panels on tie“. and we had some

~—-.——— -._'.

“as. GREENBERG is art instructor at
the Downtown Community School, .'\ eu'
York City. This material is digested
with permission from Arts and Activi-

ties, September 1959.

 

102

idea of how they haw. been nladc in the
one thousand years this art has existed.

we realized that we were not equip-
ped to work in this manner in our art
room, and so a new method, suited to
our own equipment, evolved. We de-

(ylaas fragments were
laid on, clear glass panel,
glued, filled in. with
black aquarium cement
to simulate the leading
used in authentic stain-
ed glass panels. Tools
are simple and the re-
mlts quite remarkable.

t ided to use clear glass panels for bases
and we had them available in 10"-l)_\'-
12” and ].4”-by-16” sizes.

After deciding on our topic and do-
ing some sketches, we were rcady to cut
the glass shapes. These were to be glued

 

' RECREATION

lo the clear glass with Sobo. Our aim,
:imilar to that of the old-time and c011-
lemporary stained-glass craftsmen, was
0 have a combination of transparent,
ranslucent, and opaque areas. Thin
ayers of Sobo left the glass transparent,
1eavier layers left it translucent, and
Ive had opaque glass bits in our supply
)ox.

We left the space between the pieces
of glass (as in designing a mosaic) to
be filled in later to get the effect of the
leading used in professional stained-
glass panels. As areas were completed
we held them up to the light to get the

full effect of the sun on the beautiful
colors.

As each design in glass was com-
pleted we used aquarium cement (black)
to fill in the spaces between shapes.
With the black lines added to the colors

they shone like jewels in the sunshine.
The children were overjoyed.

HOW DlD we get the shapes we want-
ed? Well, the glass cutter was
available for those who had specific
shapes in mind. Others placed small
sheets of the stained glass between folds
of newspaper and gently tapped them

with the mallet. Everyone realized that
we had to exercise extreme care when
working with this glass. Thc pieces of
glass broken “en masse” gave us a vari-
ety of wonderful shapes so that each
child could put together the large areas
he was working on with these “found”
shapes.

When our children pass a church or
synagogue, the stained glass has much
more interest for them than ever before
—and the pleasure of investigating a
completely new medium provided a new
art challenge for the children and the

teacher! #

 

Arts and

Vrafts Corner

Edited by Shirley Silbert

This column of aids for the arts-and-craftsman is con-
tributed by the Arts and Crafts Subcommittee of the National
Advisory Committee on Recreation Programs and Activities
of the National Recreation Association and will appear
monthly. Miss Silbert is chairman of the subcommittee and
director of recreation and camping, Department for the
Handicapped, Brooklyn Bureau of Social Service and Chil-
dren’s Aid Bureau in Brooklyn, New York.

Identifying Shears and Scissors—Each type of shears and
scissors has its own individual function. To distinguish be-
tween them, scissors are made with ring handles of equal
size, and range in length from three to six inches. They
should be used only for lighter cutting tasks. Shears have
one handle larger than the other for better leverage and
generally come in sizes from six to fourteen inches in length.
They are made to do the heavier cutting jobs. For further
information about scissors and shears, you can write to J.
Wiss 8.! Sons Company, Education Department, Newark 7,
New Jersey, and ask for your free copy of The Wiss Story
of Shears & Scissors.—SHIRLEY SILBERT, New York.

Extending Usability of Tools—A broken hacksaw blade can
be turned into a fine-pointed keyhole saw for getting into
small holes. Grind the back edge of the broken end down
to a taper. Slip the other end into a slotted wood dowel for
a handle and wrap it with wire. You get a bonus too! When
the teeth are worn down, grind a cutting edge on the blade
and you have a sharp knife.

When a shop tool such as a try square becomes so rusty
that you can’t read the engraved marking, you can refinish
it by scouring off the rust and cleaning with fine steel wool.
Wipe dry. Then coat with aluminum paint and wipe the sur-
face immediately, leaving the paint in the lines. They will
show up like new—DOROTHY J. SCHMID, First U.S. Army,
Governors Island, New York.

Straw Sippers—Fun and Festive—You will need cork balls
with holes in the center (may be purchased at the dime

FEBRUARY, 1962

store), colored or natural straws, all-purpose glue (Elmer’s
Clue-All works well), assorted odds and ends as face decora-
tions. Place the cork ball with a hole through it over the
straw. Then glue on any type of face, such as a clown, a
bunny for Easter, Santa for Christmas, etcetera. These
straws make gay party favors or add a note of cheer to a

hospital tray—CATHERINE SIMPSON, Oklahoma City, Okla-;

homa.

Aids to Needle Threading—There are quite a number of de»

vices on the market, but two most commonly used are:

Needle Threader. A metal tab with wire loop that passes
through the eye of a larger-sized needle so that the thread

can be placed in the loop and drawn through the eye of the

needle.

Self-threading Needle. This needle has a slit eye, and the
thread is stretched across the slot at the end of the needle,
then pulled into the eye. While these are known aids for
blind people, anyone who has trouble threading a sewing

needle can make good use of them. Try a local shop or an‘
agency for the blind. If not available, you can write to the,

American Foundation for the Blind, 15 West 16th Street,
New York 11. A catalog showing these and other devices
is free.—SHIRLEY SILBERT, New York City.

Mixing Plaster of Paris—Always start with water. The.
amount is determined by the batch needed. Take handfuls
of plaster and sift through the fingers until the plaster builds
up above the surface of the water. Now, let this set for about

a minute, then mix well using an old spoon or a tongue de- _

pressor. Once the plaster has been mixed, more plaster or
water should not be added: a separate batch must be made.
If your mixture has a heavy creamy appearance it is on its
way to being set. Use it as soon as possible. For small
quantities of plaster, use old milk containers or other car-
tons. These can be discarded. Clean all plaster with waste
paper before it hardens. Do not put plaster in the sink. It
hardens and clogs the pipeS.—CHARLOTTE E. KIZEB, White

Plains, New York.

Care of Soldering I ron—If your soldering iron has a screw-
on tip or a setscrew that holds the tip in place, check it oc-
casionally to make sure oxidation has not frozen it tightly
in place. If it has, do not try to loosen it with pliers—you
may damage the tip. Instead, take a cotton swab or brush,
dip it in ammonia and apply it to the tip of its base. This
will unfreeze the tip in a matter of minutes—DOROTHY J.
SCIIMID, First U .S. Army, Governors Island, New York.

103

ll

 

GET THE GUS
TO VOCALIZE

WITH
NATIDNAL'S DANDY

“SING-ALONG SONG SLIDES"!!

Meetings that begin or end Wlll'l sing-along sessions
are successful meetings! Watch your gang warm up
tast with a lusty grouo sing! Send for National‘s
lantastic free catalog of more than 850 all-tlme hit
songs. available in slide form for as low as 50c a
tune! Need a oroiector‘! Let us know . . . we'll save
you real dough! Write today to:

NATIONAL STUDIOS
as West 48th Street. N. v. as. N. v.

4‘

TABLE AND ‘ “
CHAIR mucus

Wrommc .
PEDESTAL TABLES

Dlrect from foctory sov-

u  Ing to Churches. Schools,

"1 Clubs. lodges ond oll orgonl-

 zotlons. MONROE 1962

« '- Folding Bouquet Tables are

unmotched for quoliry, dura-

blllry, convenlence ond hand-

some oppeoronce. 94 models ond slxes for
every use. erte for prices, catalog.

FREE— BIG 1962 CATALOG

Coior pictures. Fuii iirre MONROE tabiu. chairs.
tabie and chair trucks. piatform-risere. port-
able partitions. Write todlyi

THE MONROE 60.. 181 Church St.. Collar. Iowa '

THEATRE

FOR CHILDREN
PLAYS DANCE
Booking ’62-’63 TOURS Now

Contact
FRANCES SCHRAM

‘BRIGGS MANAGEMENT

l 1475 Broadway, Neyv York 36, N. Y.

Bryant 9-6780

104

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

Accentuate the Positive
Continued from Page 7]

 

does not apply to Saskatchewan homes
for the aged.

At Mount Royal Lodge, Saskatoon.
boxes and other containers are made
from used Christmas cards. Money de-
rived from their sale is donated to char-
ity. Other groups of women have re-
vived the skill of their younger quilting
bee days and made handsome quilts,
raffled them off, and sent the proceeds
to needy children in Korea. The women
in one of these have written to find out
if they can adopt two or three Korean
orphans. This would mean paying a
certain sum monthly for the care and
education of each child.

A bazaar is an annual function in
many homes, and the making of bazaar
articles goes on throughout the year.
From their sales. more materials are
purchased for the next bazaar and its
profits will again go to some worthy
cause. Guests in the Lutheran Home in
Melville made enough money through
their bazaar and other activities to send
an African missionary, whom they look
011 with pride as their missionary, the
down-payment on a jeep. An arts-antl-

The Community Festival
Continued from Page 101

 

by the Ottawa Municipal Art Centre
and the same organization sponsored
the display of seven exhibits prepared
by the Art Institute of Ontario. The
Canadian Publishers’ Association set
up an exhibit of Canadian books. Local
writers and the Ottawa Public Library
cooperated in presenting pictures and
short biographies of many of the local
members of the Canadian Authors As-
sociation. Thc Ottawa Community
Players underwrote the expenscs of a
newly formed Festival Drama Group
and six plays were given. Two of the
plays were presented in both English
and French versions.

For the 1960 community festival
forty-two events were planned and the
highest standards were again main-
tained———in music, drama, films and art.
Another feature that was a remarkable

crafts display of articles made by guests
in the houses is an annual feature of the
Association Conference.

However, the Saskatchewan houses
do have their share of guests who just
want to sit and watch the world go by
on TV. Dr. Borys Kobrynski, a geria-
tric doctor for the Department of So-
cial Welfare, spoke of this in addressing
the 1960 conference. He said, “Many
oldsters bask in the entrenched idea that
they should be excused from activity ,
and that they have earned a well-de- ;
served rest. Before too long such inac-
tivity becomes a habit. Psychologists
tell us that continued inactivity is harm-
ful because it breeds depression and
loneliness. In the long run, it results in
deterioration of one’s mental and physi-
cal state.

“Older people need encouragement
and the choice of enjoyable occupa-
tions. Like people of all ages, they need
work and play that will give them a
sense of achievement. But we should
not regiment them or force them to do
things because we think it is good for
them. We should provide them with a
large variety of activities so every one
can select an activity thatgsuits his tastes

and his ability." if:

success was the competitive show of
photographs, which attracted work from
all over Ontario.

The festivals have earned for the De-
partment of Recreation and Parks the
reSpect of many cultural groups work-
ing in the area, and many have ex-
pressed a willingness to cooperate with
us in the future and to aid in community
centre activities. We have found new
friends. We have even partially
achieved the aim of making the festival
self-supporting. Attendance has been
good, critical acclaim enthusiastic.

We are looking forward to the day
when programs like our summer festi-
vals will raise the standards of art in-
terest in our community to the point
where private enterprise will be suffi-
ciently interested to promote programs
of a higher calibre. In the meantime
it must remain our job to help bring the
artist and his public closer to a common
understanding and appreciation. #

RECREATION

' FOR THE ILL
. AND HANDICAPPED

This column is dedicated to those
1 'orhing in recreation media dealing
with the ill and handicapped. The Na-
I‘onal Recreation Association invites
gencies, institutions, hospitals, and in-
g'ividuals interested in this area of rec-
reation to send in reports, research,
.esults, program ideas, and other inter-
:sting information which can, through
.his column, be brought to the attention
if others nationally.

l- l- l' l-

"I‘ The National Association of Recrea-
ional Therapists is holding its 10th
innual Conference from March 26-30
it the Benjamin Franklin Hotel in Phil-
ldclphia. Featured speakers include
Iohn E. Davis, M.D., commissioner of
mental health for Pennsylvania; Mau-
“rice E. Linden, M.D., director of mental
health, Philadelphia; Mrs. Beatrice H.
Hill, director, Comeback, Inc.; R. Roy
Rusk, chapter program consultant, The
Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation;
and Dr. Morton Thompson, acting di-
rector, National Recreation Association
Consulting Service on Recreation for
the Ill and Handicapped.

* The conference will include live dem-
onstrations with mentally ill, mentally
retarded, aged, and handicapped chil-
dren. An outstanding session on re-
search is being set up by Dr. Roscoe
Brown of New York University. For
further information write Philip Walsh,
Conference Chairman, Office of the Ag-
ing, Department of Welfare, Harris-
hurg, Pennsylvania.

+ In N0vember,’a meeting held at Na-
tional Recreation Association head-
quarters involving seven national
health agencies, one state health agency.
and NRA, explored these agencies’
needs and problems in recreation and
the way NRA’s Consulting Service on
Recreation for the Ill and Handicapped
could assist in meeting those necds. As
a result of the meeting a committee will
be formed to develop a workahle philos-
ophy of recreation and plans for coop-
erative efforts in this field.

Attending the meeting were R. Roy
Rusk, Arthritis and Rheumatism Foun-
dation; Margaret Ryan, National In-
fantile Paralysis Foundation; Ernest
Weinrich. United Cerebral Palsy Asso-
ciation; Curtis Krishef, National Asso-
ciation for Retarded Children; Dr. .lo-
seph Kadish, National Association for
Mental Health; H. Kenneth Fitzgerald,

American Foundation for the Blind:

FEBRUARY, 1962

 

John R. McKillop, National Multiple
Sclerosis Society; Edward F. Kilbane,
United Cerebral Palsy of New York;
Joseph Prendergast, NRA executive di-
rector; Arthur Williams, NRA associ-
ate executive director; and Dr. Morton
Thompson, Mary B. Cummings, Mari-
lyn Heischober, and Sheldon Reid, all
of the NRA Consulting Service.

+ The National Recreation Associa-
tion recently conducted a live-week
training course for volunteers and pro-
fessionals in working with the aged, ill,
and handicapped in Nassau and Suffolk
Counties, New York. The course was
sponsored by the Nassau County Ameri-
can Red Cross. Subjects: Philosophy;
Recruitment of Volunteers; Adaptation
of Activities; Music and Square Danc-
ing; Transportation; Arts and Crafts;
Bedside Activities; Games; Parties and
Special Events. NRA staff members
teaching sections of the workshop in-
cluded Dr. Morton Thompson, Marilyn
Heischober, Mary B. Cummings, Shel-
don Reid and Siebolt Frieswyk. Other
lecturers were square dance specialist
Cy Grossman and Lou Goldberg, presi-
dent of Transportation for the Handi-
capped.

+ Two years ago, in New York City,
Metropolitan and Flower Fifth Avenue
Hospitals emharked on a treatment pro-
gram that includes detoxification and
psychiatric, vocational, and recreation
services to narcotics addicts. The
Flower Fifth Avenue Medical School
provides medical staff and psychiatric
services, while Metropolitan furnishes
facilities, vocational guidance, and all
non-medical staff.

The rehahilitation process hegins
when the patient is admitted to Metro-
politan Hospital for detoxification.
Once off medication, the patient is
transferred to a continued treatment
unit for a minimum of two weeks.
While on the continued treatment unit,
the patient is involved in crafts, games,
music, and one-hour discussion periods
moderated by recreation therapists.
Discussions range from current world
t0pics to the problems facing patients
as they attcmpt a social comeback. The
program uses volunteer recreation
workers during the evening. Supportive
services, such as psychiatric help with
family and social prohlems. vocational
guidance, and recreation therapy, are
provided for as long as the need exists
following the patient’s discharge.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

+ A group of handicapped people in
Great Barrington, Massachusetts, are
embarked on a drive to interest their
community in the recreation needs of
the handicapped. Spearheading the
drive is Michael L. Rose, a former pub-
lic relations director who, as a result of
a serious accident, is now a paraplegic.
Comeback, Inc. has acted as consultant
for the campaign.

Despite a lack of recreation facilities
at local and state levels, and absence
of community recreation programs for
the handicapped, this resourceful group
is on its way to achieving one of its
goals—getting its community to pro-
vide recreation facilities and programs
for eight hundred handicapped children
and adults.

+ Build up your resource library with
free and inexpensive materials available
from the National Recreation Associa-
tion Consulting Service on Recreation
for the Ill and Handicapped, 8 West 8th
Street, New York 11. Free, mimeo-
graphed material includes information
on leadership and free sources of in-
formation on rehabilitation and recrea-
tion, Arts and Crafts for the Ill and
Handicapped, Recreation Programming
for the Mentally Retarded, Games for
the Ill and Handicapped, Camping for
the Handicapped, Homebound Recrea-
tion, Cerebral-Palsy Day Camp, Devel-
opment of Recreation Programs for
Handicapped Children, and a bibliogra-
phy of recreation information for the
handicapped.

Inexpensive pamphlets* available
from the Consulting Service include
Recreation and Psychiatry ($1.25) ;
Starting a Recreation Program in In-
stitutions for the Ill and Handicapped
Aged ($1.25) ; Suggestions for Recrea-
tion Activities for the Aged ($.25) ; De-
veloping Volunteers for Service in Rec-
reation Programs ($2.00); and a re-
print of five articles on therapeutic rec-
reation which appeared in Hospital

Management ($.25).
* Please include remittance with order.
One Source

 for All Needs!

ART ACTIVITIES
HANDCRAFT PROJECTS

Top Quality—Fast Service—Big Discounts

Dependable nationwide Ieathercraft supplier

since 1935 now offers a full line of all art sup-
plies (temperas. chalk. clays. etc.) . . . hand»
craft materials (wood. mosaics. candles. che-
nille, metal. etc.) . . . leather supplies. Com-
plete project kits or bulk. Many new ideas.
all the old “stand-by's." Same day service.

Low prices. high discounts. Satisfaction
guaranteed.

Catalog FREE on Request!
.I. C. LARSON CO., INC.

Dept. 1605 820 S. Tripp Chicago 24, III.

 

105

 

 

For further information regarding any of the products
discussed below, simply circle its corresponding key num-
ber on coupon on facing color page and mail to as.

0 Three styles of padded exercise mats designed for use by
patients undergoing physical rehabilitation can be used for
camping, hack rests for spectator sports, and fitness activi-
ties. Because they were originally designed for hospital and
clinical uses, these multi-purpose mats provide better body
support than ordinary mats. Made of one-piece, five-section
foam plastic, the mats are six feet long, can be folded into a
compact, lightweight package for storage. The mats are cov-
ered with durable vinyl of forest green with white piping that
can be cleaned with a cloth dampened in water or a mild
antiseptic solution. One model is fillcd with cellulose ace-
tate fibers. These mats can be used as sleeping mats for
campers, as back support for spectators, as a comfortable
hase for fitness exercises, in addition to uses in therapeutic
rehabilitation. For further information, circle #100.

o Fiberglass picnic tables eliminate costly refinishing. A
pressure-laminated fiberglass shell is bonded to a lumber
core for these tablcs. Table top and seats are complctely
weather sealed to withstand years of outdoor service. Fiber-
glass surface minimizes damage from vandalism. Tables
are eight feet long and have steel legs braced with angle and
channel iron. For further information, circle #101. 'i

o _ First came the caddy. Now, with
automation hitting the golf links,
golf buggcys have come into vogue.
To protect golf cart drivers from
wild golf balls and cold winter
winds, a manufacturer has deviscd
a protective shield for golf huggeys.
The shield completely closes in the
cart and has a door on each side. It is available now for the
Cushman Colfster and will soon be ready for other makes
and models. It can be thirty degrees warmer inside this
shield, depending on the sun’s heat. The shield has a wind-
shield of polished heavy plastic of the type used in rear Win-
dows of convertiblc autos. Back and side curtains and tabs
for snaps are heavy-gauge, clear Elastomeric plastic film.
The shield is made without doors, too, but this model does
not afford the warmth of the one with doors. A do-it-yourself
kit of the plastics themselves and instructions will benefit
the modest budget. The shields are easy to remove and store
for the summer. For further information, circlc #102.

 

o Youngsters can have a fine time building pint-sized vil-
lages from multi-functional, corrugated cardboard panels
designed to permit a variety of constructions—playhouses,
teahouses, dollhouses, miniature castles, circus tents, pago-
das. Children and adults on a playground in Hilltop, a com-
munity near Bellevue, Washington, built a whole village of

106

these cardboard structures, then proceeded to camp out in
them for a week. The constructions are large enough for
children to enter and can provide a practically limitless vari- l
ety of play structures. The colorful striped or solid panels
can he assembled into houses with elastic bands. They’re
easily disassembled and are perfect for summery shade Spots,
tea parties, and fortresses. (But take them in when the rains
come!) Fine, too, for engaging indoor rainy day activity.

 

Here is maximum creativity for a minimum budget. For
more information, circle #105.

0 New power sprayer can handle fungicides, wecdkiller,
herbicidcs, and liquid and dry chemical fertilizers. From
one standing position the operator can completely spray an
area one hundred feet or more in diameter. It is so designed
that no chemical passcs through the watcr pump, thus pro-
tecting vital parts from wear. This sprayer can also be used
for cleaning exteriors of buildings, driveways, and equip-
ment. It efficiently rcmoves grease residues and grit using
only cold water with detergents or cleaning compounds. It
eliminates the usual premixing of chemical with large
amounts of water. The water for the mixed solution is drawn
in from a faucet or other cxternal water source as needed
and automatically mixed and proportioned in the exact ratio
specified by the chcmical manufacturer. Applies ten gallons
of mixed spray material per minute at gauge pressure of
five hundred pounds per square inch. It is capable of deliv-
ering three hundred gallons of spray solution with each full
loading of chemical in the twelve-gallon concentrate tank.
Can be used to spray as little as fifty gallons. Adjustahle
nozzle. Spraycr has seven horsepower engine, stainless steel
parts wherever chemical comes in contact, brass valves
chrome plated, a heavy steel chassis with semi-pncumatic
wheels. Maneuverable by hand pull bar. Dimensions are
60”-by-36”-by-30" and weight is approximately 425 pounds.
Other standard models are available as well as custom
models. For information. circle #106.

RECREATION

  

l'

I

I Page
1 rican Playground Device s Inside Back Cover
I

 

‘r gs Management _ ....................... -- 104
1 tello Fencing, Judo 8. Karate “we”- 56
ll " rydale Farms Confections  Back Cover
..
I 1, Icago Roller Skating .................... -__. 111
r ssitied - ............ _. __--__ -_ 112

    
   
  
    
   
 
 
    
  
  
  
  
   
 
  

I)

I

, m-Time  Inside Front Cover
1
I dMedaI Products __ ________________ m” 74

r h
I

‘ ' iana University ____.__-s_.----_-_.-.---------_ 55

. Larson Company H-____________...--..s---___._ 105

acmiIIan Company  53
ason Candies. _ d.   99
nroe Company - - .- 104
ational Studios __-__.__-______._.__-_._.-.-___. 104
I
R11 Press ._-_---_---u_____-____-_-c-_-_---_  110
1 aramount Theatrical Supplies” ......... ._- 100
'ayground Summer Notebook mums- 55
1 'co Manufacturing .--.- -m- Inside Back Cover

uperior Industries _ -_.-_ Inside Front Cover

.F. Twardzik _. ............... -.  56

REJUVENATE I

Are your programs suffering from
Hardening of the Arteries?

REll’IEDY
Send for the free list of NRA

ublications and your free copy of
Guide to Books on Recreation.
Just circle #110 on coupon.

EBRUARY, 1962

 

"‘ @ TRADE MART a

 

FREE AIDS

Here are resources—catalogs, brochures, films, booklets, services
available, samples, and so on—to help the recreation leader. Circle
the key number following any item about which you want more in-
formation. Cut out the coupon, insert in envelope, and mail.

DRAMA

FAIN‘I' mmr ne’er: won FAIR came. For vivid,
professional background color, use eyetingling
casein fresco colors for scenery and back-
drops. Fast~to-light, true to tone, of great
tinting strength. Packed in quarts, gallons,
and five-gallon pails. Wonderful range of
colors in this series and in company’s other

scenic and theatrical colors. For color sam-
ples, circle #120.

THE FULL GAMUT. CatalOgue describing one-
act plays for youngsters includes holiday
plays, fairy tales, folk tales, melodramas and
farces, mysteries, comedies, and adaptations
of classics. For copy, circle #121.

SCENERY DUCK AND MUSLIN for backdrOps.
Flameproof fabrics available in various widths
in bolts of fifty to sixty yards. For samples
and information, circle #122.

BLUEPRINT FOR cosrumas. Illustrated bro-
chure shows all characters with complete cos-
tume changes. Theater service offers costumes
which are authentic, altered to fit perfectly,
cleaned, and get to you on time. Everything
included except wigs and hairpieces. One full
week of rehearsal time with the actual cos-
tumes carries no extra charge. This service is
designed for schools, little theaters, church
groups, and other nonprofessionals. For in-
formation, circle #123.

IN THE srormeurs AND FOOTLIGHTS of your
drama program, thespians of all ages appre-
ciate the confidence good makeup and back-

ground can give. Whether you need a wig
blocker, hlack-tooth wax, nose putty, wigs of
all sorts, sound effects, stage lighting equip-
ment and hardware, or prefahricated flats, you
can take your cue from a catalog listing a full
array of theatrical supplies. For your copy,

circle #124.

Tumrnrcar. HARDWARE—Cleats, hinges, bolts,
saws, helt dressing, hammer tackcr, etcetera.
For catalogue of these indispensable items,

circle #125.

WHAMMOI WIIEEEII Sound eliects for your
productions, from female giggles to the whis-
tle of a train and the grinding of the hurdy—
gurdy. Also mood music for background
theming. For information, circle #126.

How DOES roua PLAY LOOK through rose-col-
ored glasses? Gelatine sheets give latitude in
lighting effects, come in myriad of colors from
chocolate to light magenta and azure blue.
Non-fade sheets remain pliable and may be
cut to size without crumbling or tearing. For

leaflet, circle #127.

Sranrunc on LIFELIKE MASKS, theatrical sets,
statuary can be produced with three art mate-
rials having diverse applieations. Art works,
skeletons of animals, surfaces and friezes on
building, faces, hands, all can be reproduced
in mold form and cast into positive shapes.
Used by museums to reconstruct animal
frames, by crime-detecting agencies to clarify

evidence. For booklet on materials for moul-
age, circle #128.

PLEASE NOTE EXPIRATION DATE

Clip and mail today. to

RECREATION Magazine. Dept. 3262. 8 W. 81h St.. New York 11

This coupon expires April 1. 1962
Please send me more information on circled products.

100 101 102 108 104 105 106 107
117 118 119 120 121 122 128 124
184 185 186 187 188 139 140 141

 

108 109 110 111 112 118 114 115 118
125 126 127 128 129 180 181 182 188
142 148 144 145 146 147 148 149 150

 

 

 

 

Name Title
Organization
Address City Zone State
11262
107

FANCY SPANCLEs and other glittery trifies
make theatrical costumes and craft projects
sparkle. Mardi-gras, dance, and holiday dec-
orating will be a dazzler witb headings and
jewels. For information, circle #129.

THE PLAY’s THE THING . . . to focus interest on
a community problem and perhaps suggest
some solution. Tailor-made scripts available
on parent-teenage relationships, juvenile (le-
linquency, retirement, people on relief, family
counseling, etcetera. Within a fifty-mile radius
of New York City a professional cast is also
available to present these “plays for living.”
Outside of tbat area the scripts are available
for local amateurs and professionals. For
booklet describing plays (you can have one
custom tailored for your community’s situa-
tion), giving tips on recruiting local talent,
and purchasing scripts, circle #130.

WE COT RHYTHM. Parade sounds, noises of
drum major, ringmaster, merry-go-round, ele-
pbants, jugglers, ponies, lions make up some
of the rhythmic activities recorded on a circus
fun disc. Other rhythms for little folk include
a toy-shOp sequence and a series of let’s-have-
fun dancing. For information, circle #131.

l’r’s MAGIC! Tricks and supplies, sometimes
complete with entertaining patter, run the
gamut of bewitchery from producing things,
cigarettes, flowers, rabbits out of nowhere to
producing smoke from your finger tips. You
can do card tricks, multiply eggs, change
spongcs into rabbits. Variety shows, minstrel
shows, fund-raising gimmicks, hospital rec-
reation entertainments, all can benefit from
the hilarity and wonder of magic acts. For
catalogue containing full listing of tricks and
equipment, circle #132.

NAME YOUR PLAY. Colorful, authentically de-
tailed costumes designed by professionals will
add visual appeal to your productions. One
of the largest and most famous theatrical cos-
tumers in the country, costuming Broadway
hows, schools, Colleges, little theater groups,
rents costumes and includes all accessories
except wigs, footwear, sidearnts or preps,
which are available separately. For informa-
tion, circle #133.

ARTS All-D (RAHS

IT WILL TURN TO STONE. New art media mixcd
with water creates bard cast-stone material
easy to sculpt and carvc. Weathcr-proof, fire-

I."

 

  

$1.00 each 0 11-24 copies same title—8.85 each

25 or more same title—$.75 each 0 100 or over same title—S65 per hundred

E] Send
[:I Send

 

 

(Be sure to fill in name and address on reverse side.)

108

 

antenna/t. phoqhwna, [OzoanedWi’Uhde/L
MUSIC IS RECREATION
DRAMA IS RECREATION

First two in the series on The Performing Arts as Recreation

copies of Music Is Recreation
capies of Drama Is Recreation
E] Check or money order enclosed

 

proof, water-resistant, requires no beating or

complicated tools. For information, circle
#134.

FIRE AWAY! Kilns have heat-resistant glass
window so you can see what’s cooking. Infra-
red heating enables you to fire almost im-
mediately—from three to five minutes after
plugging in. Three-heat range switch, light
weight will deligbt tbe ceramicist. For in-
formation, circle #135.

PEACOCKS, ROSES, BUTTERFLIES—Colorful pat-
terns for beaded evening bags, an exciting
craft for any group of women. Company also
sells clasp tops for purses, patterns for dress
and hat ornaments, and a widc, wonderful
selection of beads in an extravagant range of
hues, for anything and everything. For infor-
mation, circle #136.

FOR LEFTIES. Scissors for left-handed people
make for easier cutting. Come in all styles,
blunt, cushion grip with clip point, regular
point, bent trimmer, teacher shears. For book-
let of scissor styles and tips for left-handed
cutters, circle #137.

NINI: DIFFERENT CLAYS for making earthen-
ware, stoneware, and porcelain. A series of
twenty unusual glazes have soft, dull textures
and antique finishes. For these and other

ccramic products in beautifully prepared cata-
logue, circle #138.

PROGRAM AIDS

BRINC Tilt: OUTDOORS INDOORs. Sea sbells,
butterflics and moths, rocks and minerals are
illustratcd in color and described on versatile
Ed-U-Cards. Use them before and after field
trips with your nature clubs; coordinate party
gucssing games around them. For further in-
formation on these and other Children’s card
games, circle #141.

WHAT Is A PARTY without refreshments? To
make your parties go over big, dairy company
offers party menus and recipes to make the
refreshment committee's lot a happier one. For
menu magic pampblets, circlc #145.

BRONZE ANn ALUMINUM PLAQUES and me-
morial tablets—rich and durable, with clean
harp lettcring—come in wide variety of de-
signs. Folder presents a few examples of
craftsmanship along with standard style let-
ters and suggestions for short cuts in plaque
designing. For leaflet, circle #146.

 

"I..- ----------

 

[3 Bill agency

LOW-COST AIDS

Order these resources and references
rectly from source given ( enclose remittance

  
    
 
  
    
 
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
   
   
   
  
  

TO GET YOU LAUNCHED, Reprints as Blueprin
to Help You Plan Boating Facilities contai
a series of outstanding articles on developme
of boating facilities. The ten articles contai
material on land storage of boats, buildi
portable docks and piers, the advantages
certain types of wood construction for mar
nas, a breakdown of berth and storage charge
at one successful marina. The illustrated br
chure is available from the Outboard Boa-tin
Club of America, 307 North Michigan Av
nue, Chicago 1. Single copies are free. Oth
publications in the facilitics series includ
Launching Ramps and Piers, Directory

Architects and Engineers, Boating F aciliti
for Your Community, and Outboard Marina

A REAL BOON to the senior Citizcn, the hand
capped, and those with either a limitcd bu:
get or limited energies, Low Cost Meals The
Please contains tasty, balanced meals wlIic
are simple to make and low in cost. When w
eat well we havc more cnergy to cnjoy lif
Available from the National Dairy Counci
11] North Canal Street, Chicago 6, for $.1

MORE ON THE BOUNCE. The Mini-Trrmtp Fo
Rebound Tumbling by Rich Harris is the firs
completc instructional manual for thc minia
ture trampoline. The author presents basi
teaching techniqucs in a simple manner. Basi
stunts, as well as somersanlts, are thorough]
described and illustrated with photograph
and skctches to show each phase of thc stunt.
There is an extensive chapter on exhibitiou‘
and exhibition tumbling teams. Detailed les-
son plans of a two-wcck instructional unit for

beginning physical education classes are in‘
cluded. Available for $1.00 from Nissen

Teaching Aids, 930 27th Avenue S.W., Ceda
Rapids, lowa.

PICNIC KNOW-HOW. While the 1962 edition 0
Let's Have a Picnic is primarily directed to
wards largc industrial picnics, the booklet i
a valuable point of departure for successful
church. recreation department, and club pic-
nics. It details preplanning thc picnic, con

sidcrations in selccting thC sitc and date, how.

to finance the picnic, and neccssitics for I]

picnic grounds and how to make the best O
them, including Ihc PA system, transportation.
program, entertainers, food, gamcs, prizes.
Also included are helpful hints on the prob-
lem of lost children, a checklist for picnic
duties, form letters for testimonial presenta-
tions. Available from Organization Services,

Inc., 8259 Livernois, Dctroit 4, Michigan, at
$1.00.

OUT 01“ rows? Photography Without Fear
is an amusing and well-illustrated booklet full
of common sense tips for the amateur photog-
rapher. It is essentially a nontecltnical booklet
dealing mostly with the why-didn’t-l-think-of-l
that? approach to flashbulbs, shooting angles.
distance, perspective. etcetera. Available for

$.25 from AGFA incorporated, 516 West 31th
Street, New York 1.

RECREATION

 

    

CREATIVE DRAMATICS .

“Creative dramatics is a group art
for children,” writes Winifred Ward in
'the foreword to the bulletin Creative
Dramatics ($.75), just published by the
‘Association for Childhood Education
International. “The term includes all
forms of improvised drama,” she con-
tinues, and “it begins with imaginative
play of the young child.” The bulletin
includes articles by other leaders of this
art. This is but one of a number of

recent publications on this subject.
‘l' * ‘l' *

Another publication worthy of note
and strongly recommended to those who
want to be more familiar with this
rapidly growing field is Children’s
Theatre and Creative Dramatics, edited
by Geraldine Brain Siks and Hazel
Brain Dunnington. This collection of
articles was developed under the aus-
pices of the American Educational
Theatre Association, with the coopera-
tion of its Children’s Theatre Confer-
ence Division, and was published by
the University of Washington Press
($5.00) . It is a basic, definitive study of
educational dramatics for children, and
covers background history of today’s
dcvelopments in this field as well as
current children’s theatre activities of
all types and in a wide variety of set-
tings. It also «covers recommended
training for leadership.

Its contributing authors are many
and include such well-known names as
Winifred Ward, founder and honorary
director of the Children’s Theatre Con-
ference; Agnes Haaga, CTC director
for 1961-1963; Dorothy Thames
Schwartz, CTC director from 1959-
1961; Sara Spencer, founder-editor of
the Children’s Theatre Press; Nellie
McCaslin of Mills College, New York
City, author of children’s books and
plays; Isabel B. Burger, founder of the
Baltimore Children’s Theatre Associa-
tion; and many others who are active in
children’s theatre leadership. A chapter
on “Creative Dramatics in Recreation
Programs,” contributed by Virginia
Musselman, director of the National
Recreation Association Program Serv-
ice, delineates the development of a
major emphasis on creative dramatics
in public recreation which has been

FEBRUARY, 1962

EW
PUBLICATIONS

spearheaded by the Association; while
Margaret S. Woods, vice-president of
the advisory board for the kindergarten
and primary department of the National
Education Association, discusses the
“Creative Dramatics and Community
Programs” that exist under other com-
munity auspices.

Conspicuously missing from this
volume, however, is a chapter by Grace
Stanistreet, founder and director of the
Children’s Center for Creative Arts at
Adelphi College, Garden City, New
York, and recently appointed director
of the CTC Creative Dramatics Section,
who is doing such outstanding work in
the relating of all of the arts to chil-
dren’s theater, and especially to creative
dramatics, and in relating the latter to
education for living. The omission of
her story was an unfortunate oversight
in such a collection.—D.D.

New Understanding of Administra-
tion, Harleigh B. Trecker. Association
Press, 291 Broadway, New York 7. Pp.
245. $4.50.

The author defines and discusses ad-
ministration from the more modern
concepts of leadership and relation-
ships. He has a people-centered point
of view with means and ends compat-
ible and inseparable. He defines what
administrators of service agencies need
to know and tells what well-organized
and productive executives do. Princi-
ples for structure and organization of
agencies are identified. Attention is
given to the qualities needed by admin-
istrative leaders. Mr. Trecker advises
that administrative leadership is not so
much the providing of directives as the
establishing of effective working rela-
tionships with and between people. Ba-
sically, it is a matter of motivating
workers to their finest and highest levels
of achievement.

The author emphasizes the fact that
the leader’s effectiveness is not mea-
surcd in terms of the leadership he ex-
ercises, but in terms of the leadership
he evokes in others. Leadership should
be measured in terms of the power it
releases in others. This type of leader-
ship, it is emphasized, gets more think-
ing, more action and more work done.
Also, it aids the growth of workers, in-

creases their competence, and enhances
human values.

General criteria for assessing the ef-
fectiveness of administrative leadership
are listed and the importance of contin-
uous appraisal is emphasized. Not only
the staff, but also the executive needs to
establish growth objectives and pro-
grams for himself. When the executive
continually appraises his own adminis-
trative and leadership strength, he sets
the tone for evaluation elsewhere in the
organization—W. C. Sutherland, Na-
tional Recreation Association Recrea-
tion Personnel Service.

IN BRIEF

PLAYS FOR MODERN YOUTH, selected
and edited by Marcus Konick. Globe
Book Company, 175 Fifth Avenue, New
York 10. Pp. 438. $3.00. These thir-
leen short plays were selected for read-
ing and for acting, and have been tried
out successfully in classroom and on
stage. They include the fantastic Inside
a Kid’s Head, the Western Elisha and
the Long Knife, the courtroom drama
Survival, and others, all chosen for their
interest and appeal. A good collection.
Most are royalty plays. They may be
read or used for classroom drama teach-
ing, but require special permission for
producing. They are modern, interest-
ing, and worth the royalty for produc-
tion by teenagers.

SUCCESSFUL PARTIES AND How TO GIVE
THEM, Marjorie Wackerbarth and Lil-
lian S. Graham. T. S. Denison, 321 _
F ifth Avenue South, Minneapolis, M in-
nesota. Pp. 294. $3.95. Here is a col-
lection of party ideas, some for holi-
days, some for special age groups, many
on special themes. Many of these have
been published separately in magazines
such as American Home, McCall’s,
Farm Journal, and others. They are
written in an informal style especially

.for use by parents planning home par«

ties.

SCRAP W001) FUN FOR KIDS, Robert F.
Endicott. Association Press, 291 Broad-
way, New York 17. Pp. 224, illustrated.
$4.95. The author, in ten years of work
at camps and day camps. has collected
one hundred simple wood projects that

109

Make the Most
of February

For parties and

community events

*

A LOG CABIN PARTY FOR
LINCOLN’S BIRTHDAY
(P31) NRA Press, $.20

A eelebration on February 12
needn’t be a budget-breaker to
be a suecess—here are dozens of
suggestions for inexpensive
party fun, using sueh household
items as brown paper, onions,
and empty milk bottles for dec-
orations and games material.

£53?

ST. VALENTINE’S DAY:
TWO PARTY PLANS (P257)
NRA Press, $.35

As a contrast to the homey at-
mosphere of a Log Cabin Party,
this booklet is paeked with ideas
for decorating the eenter to look
like an outsize Valentine itself,
for gay and pretty refreshments
-—even ideas for special home-
made invitations.

%

PLANNING FOR PATRI-
OTIC HOLIDAYS (P231)
NRA Press, $.65

\Vhen planning your eommunity
eelebration for \Vashington’s
Birthday, you’ll need this book-
let with its suggestions for games,
activities, and special events.
Have a ccremony honoring new
eitizcns, with the mayor intro-
ducing all those who have be-
come American eitizcns during
the previous year. The new citi-
zens would probably enjoy
learning American games such
as “Ringing the Liberty Bell”
and others deseribed here.

To order the above booklets, write:
Order Department

NATIONAL
RECREATION
ASSOCIATION

8 West Eighth Street
New York 11, N. Y.

110

have appealed to boys and girls of
elementary-school age. They range
from simple cutout projects and simple
nailing projects to slightly more diffi-
cult ones. Some are fairly usual, such
as wooden beach sandals and bird and
fish letter-openers. Others are more ori-
ginal and ingenious, such as a simple
sundial, wooden finger puppets, Ka-
china doll, submarine, and helicopter.

HOW LIFE GOES ON, Irving Zeiclmer.
Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cligs, New
Jersey. Pp. 122, illustrated. $2.95. An
extremely engrossing bOOk on repro-
duction in plants and animals, well and
clearly illustrated. Chapter subtitles
lead the reader “through the potatO’s
‘eye’,” and “under the friendly fronds”
of the ferns, to learn about the cycle Of
life in “ten-headed monsters” (pla-
naria) , starfish, humans, flowers, lima
beans, and on and on. Written simply
and lucidly, the book does not set biO-
logical science up as an abstract world
apart nor does it sugarcoat it to make
it palatable to thc young mind. It pre-
sents the reproductive cycle in nature as
a fascinating new region to explore and
understand.

HYMN FESTIVALS, Ernest K. Emart'an.
W. A. Wilde Company, 10 Huron Drive,
Naticlc, Massachusetts. Pp. 126. $2.95.
The singing of gospel hymns has be-
come a lasting part Of the American
Protestant church music tradition. One
of America’s great modern composers,
Charles lch, incorporated these tra-
ditional gospel hymns into a variety
of programs providing introductory
notcs for each of the tuncs to be sung.
These historical notes provide an inter-
esting and fitting background for thc
thematic programs. Music is not in-
cluded, but most, if not all, Of the words
and music are tO be found in the stand-
ard hymnals.

lNVITATION To MUSIC, Elie Siegrneistcr.
Harvey House, lrvington-on-Hndson,
N. Y. Pp. 193. $4.95. In contrast to
many dry and nonsensical books on
music appreciation, Mr. Siegmeistcr’s
prcscntation is attractive, pleasant, and,
at the same time, rich in musical under-
standing. This “invitation” is an cspe-
cially welcome one for the serious be-
ginner.

SINGING JUNIORS { enlarged edition),
Lilla Belle Pitts, M abelle Glenn, Lorrain
E. W atters, and Louis C. W ersen. Ginn
and Company, Statler Building, Boston
I 7. Pp. 272. $3.68. This collection has
an unmistakable recreation touch. The
accent is on fun and thc enjoyment of
singing many familiar songs in effective
arrangements.

 

 

BOOKS a. PAMPHLETS RECEIVED 1,
i

Aging 1

 

SOCIAL WORKER AND TIIE COMMUNITY, TIIE,i
Morton Leeds, Ph.D. Howard Allen, P.O..
Box 1810, Cleveland 6, Ohio. Pp. 114. $2.75.

AGING: PROGRESSIVE PROGRAMMING. Ameri-
can Public Welfare Assoc., 1313 E. 60th
Street, Chicago 37. Pp. 41. Paper, $1.25.

To BRIGHTEN THE LATER YEARS. Health and
Welfare Council, 1617 Pennsylvania Blvd.,
Philadelphia 3. Pp. 27. Paper, $1.00.

TOWARD BETTER SOCIAL WORK SERVICES FOR
THE AGING. School of Social Work, 400
Comstock Ave., Syracuse 10, N. Y. Pp. 62.
Paper, free.

WAKE UP YOUNGER, Samuel Gertman, MD.
and Helen Alpert. Citadel Press, 222 Park
Ave. S., New York 3. Pp. 256. $4.95.

Audio-Visual

BETTER BULLETIN BOARD DISPLAYS. Univ. of
Texas, Austin 12. Pp. 62. Paper, $1.00.
EDUCATORS GUIDE TO FREE FILMSTRIPS 1960
(12th ed.), Mary Foley Horkhcimer and
John W. Difior, Editors, pp. 163, paper,
$6.00; EDUCATORS GUIDE TO FREE FILMS
(20th ed.), Mary Foley llorkheimer and
John W. Difior, Editors, pp. 639, papcr,
$9.00; EDUCATORS GUIDE TO FREE SCIENCE
MATERIALS (2nd annual ed., 1961), pp. 315,
paper, $6.25; EDUCATORS GUIDE TO FREE SO-
CIAL STUDIES MATERIAL (lst annual ed.,
1961), pp. 427, paper, $6.75; EDUCATORS
GUIDE TO FREE TAPES, SCRIPTS AND TRAN-
SCRIPTIONS (6th ed., 1960), Walter A. Wit-
tich, Ph.D. and Gertie llanson Halsted, Edi-
Iors, pp. 225, paper, $5.75; ELEMENTARY
TEACIIERS GUIDE TO FREE CURRICULUM MA-
TERIALS, 1961, pp. 312, paper, $7.50. All
published by Educators Progress Service,

Randolph, Wis.

4D BULLETIN BOARDS TIIAT TEACII, Doris
Ruby. Fearon Publishers, 828 Valencia St.,
San Francisco 10. Pp. 44. Papcr, $1.50.

INTERACTION: Television Public Affairs Pro-
gramming . . . at the Community Level.
Television Information Ofiice, 666 5th Ave.,
New York 19. Pp. 287. Paper, $3.00.

OPAQUE PROJECTOR, TIIE, Kenneth L. Bowers.
Visual Instruction Bureau, Univ. of Tcxas,
Austin 12. Pp. 42. Paper, $2.00.

TELEVISION IN TIIE PUBLIC INTEREST, A. Wm.
Blnem, John F. Cox, and Gene McPherson.
Hastings House, 151 E. 50th St., New York
22. Pp. 192. $6.95.

USES OF TELEVISION IN EDUCATION, TIIE.
North Ccntral Assoc, Univ. of Chicago,
5835 Kimbark Ave., Chicago 37. Pp. 32.
Free.

WIIAT GOES ON YOUR BULLETIN BOARD? Asa
Zadel Hall. Moody Press, 820 N.‘ LaSalle
St., Chicago 10. Pp. 80. Paper, $1.00.

Culinary Arts

 

COMPLETE BOOK OF OUTDOOR COOKERY, TIIE,
James A. Beard and Helen Evans Brown.
Pyramid Books, 44 Madison Avc., New
York 22. Pp. 286. $.50.

COOKING FUN, Barbara Guthric McDonald.

Henry Z. Walck, 101 5th Ave., New York 3.
Pp. 72. $3.00.

COOKING WITII lIOUCEN, Richard T. Hougen.
Abingdon Press, 201 8th Avc. 8., Nashville
2, Term. Pp. 256. $2.95.

DELICIOUS AND NUTRITIOUS. William-Freder-

RECREATION

 

ick Press, 391 E. 149th St., New York 55.
Pp. 15. Paper, $.25.

Press, Ames. Pp. 192. $3.50.

J‘AVORITE HAMBURCER AND HOT DOC RECIPES,
Christine Pines. Employee Relations, 13 E.
53rd St., New York 22. Pp. 11. $.25.

IORS D’OEUVRES (favorite recipes from em-
bassy kitchens), Shom Atkin Edmond, Ed-
itor. Charlcs E. Tuttle, Rutland Vt. Pp.
104. Spiralbound, $2.00.

IIENUS FOR ENTERTAINING, Juliette Elkon and
Elaine Ross. Hastings House, 151 E. 50th
St., New York 22. Pp. 288. $6.95.

\le SMORCASEORD COOKBOOK, TIIE, Anna
Olsson CoombS. Hill and Wang, 104 5th
Ave., New York 11. Pp. 288. $3.50.

SECRETS OF CIIINESE COOKINC, Tsuifeng and
Hsiangju Lin. . Prentice-Hall, Englewood
Cliffs, N. J. Pp. 238. $3.95.

SPECIALITIES OF TIIE HOUSE, Elizabeth H.
Grossman. Simon & Schuster, 630 5th Ave.,
New York. Pp. 96. $2.50.

SPICE WIIEEL, Frederick S. Wildman, Jr. M.
Barrows, 425 Park Ave. S., New York 16.
Pp. 15. $1.25.

Drama

AMATEUR ACTING & STAGE ENCYCLOPEDIA, D.
J. Smith. Philosophical Library, 15 E. 40th
St., New York 16. Pp. 188. $4.75.

BEST REMAININC SEATS, THE, Ben M. Hall.
Clarkson N. Potter, 56 E. 66th St., New
York 21. Pp. 266. $15.00.

CHILDREN’S TIIEA'IRE, Jed H. Davis and Mary
Jane Watkins. Harper & Bros., 49 E. 33rd
St., New York 16. Pp. 416. $6.00.

MAJOR PLAYS 0F CHIKAMATSU, translated by
Donald Keene. Columbia Univ. Press, 2960
Broadway, New York 27. Pp. 485. $8.50.

MAKINC A START WITH MARIONETTES, Eric
Bramall. Sportshelf, P.0. Box 634, New
Rochelle, N. Y. Pp. 111. $3.75.

MY MERRY MARIONETTES, Mary Garner White.
Exposition Press, 386 Park Ave. S., New
York 16. Pp. 79. $3.50.

ONE-ACT PLAYS FOR TEEN-ACERS, Earl J. Dias.
Plays, 1nc., 8 Arlington St., Boston 16. Pp.
339. $5.00.

PINPOINT PLAYS. Friendship Press, 475 River-
side Dr., Ncw York 27. Pp. 48. Paper, $.75.

PLAY-MAKINC, William Archer. Dover Publ.,
180 Varick St., New York. Pp. 277. $1.75.

PLAYS AND CREATIVE WAYS WITH CHILDREN,
Gertrude Kennan. Harvey House, lrvington-
on-Hudson, N. Y. Pp. 289. $6.95.

PLAYS FOR MODERN YOUTH, Marcus Konick.
Globe Book Co., 175 5th Ave., New York
10. Pp. 429. $3.00.

PUPPET PLAYS AND PLAYWRITING, Eric Bram-
all. Sportshelf, P.0. Box 634, New Rochelle,
N. Y. Pp. 154. $4.25.

RADIO PLAYS FOR YOUNC PEOPLE TO ACT,
Rose Schneideman. E. P. Button, 300 Park
Ave. S., New York 10. Pp. 218. $3.95.

ROUND-THE-WORLD PLAYS FOR YOUNC PEOPLE,
Paul T. Nolan. Plays, 1nc., 8 Arlington St.,
Boston 16. Pp. 285. $5.00.

SHORT PLAYS FROM THE GREAT CLASSICS, Ver-
non Howard. Sterling Publishing, 419 Park
Ave. S., New York 16. Pp. 123. $2.50.

STORY OF AMERICA’S MUSICAL THEATRE, THE,
David Ewen. Chilton Books, Chestnut at
56th Sts., Philadelphia 39. Pp. 268. $3.50.

TIIEATRE, THE, Helen and Richard Leacroft.

'Roy Publ., 30 E. 74th St., New York 21.
Pp. 74. $3.25.

 

FEBRUARY, 1962

 

ROB-ER SKATING

does more for

f more people in less space!

For maximum gym use many schools,

churches and recreation centers have

 
 
 
  
  
  
 

Social and Political

AMERICA IN THE MODERN WORLD, D. W.
Brogan, LL.D., Rutgers Univ. Press, 30 Col-
lege Avenue, New Brunswick, N. J. Pp.
117. $3.00.

AMERICAN CITIZENS HANDBOOK, THE (5th
ed.), Senior Citizens of America, 1129 Ver-
mont Ave., N.W., Washington 5. Pp. 603.
$5.00.

AMERICAN SOCIAL STRUCTURE, Don Martin-
dale. Appleton-Century-Crofts, 35 W. 32nd
St., New York 1. Pp. 521. $6.00.

AMERICAN WELFARE, Alfred deGrazia and
Ted Gurr. New York Univ. Press, Wash-
ington Sq., New York 3. Pp. 470. $6.50.

BILL OF RICHTS. Boy Scouts of America,
New Brunswick, N. J. Unpaged. $.20.

COMMUNITY STRUCTURE AND CHANCE, Low-

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

roller skating programs. Everyone

can participate, little supervision

is needed, and if desired, it can be
a profit-making activity. Write today for

free information.

Durer Plastic Wheels
Do Not Mar Floors

 

ry Nelson, Ph.D., Charles E. Ramsey, Ph.D.
and Coolie Verner, Ed.D. Macmillan Co.,
60 5th Ave., New York 11. Pp. 464.
$6.50.

CULTURAL FOUNDATIONS OF INDUSTRIAL CIVI-
LIZATION, John U. Nef. Harper & Bros.,

49 E. 33rd St., New York. Pp. 164. Paper,
$1.25.

DEVELOPMENT OF SOCIAL THOUGHT, THE, Emo~
ry S. Bogardus. Longmans, Green, 119 W.
40th St., New York 18. Pp. 689. $5.50.

DICTIONARY OF AMERICAN FOLKLORE, Marjo-
rie Tallman. PhiJOSOphical Library, 15 E.
40th St., New York 16. Pp. 324. $5.00.

EDUCATION FOR PUBLIC RESPONSIBILITY, C.

Scott Fletcher, Editor. W. W. Norton, 55
5th Ave., Ncw York 3. Pp. 192. $4.50.
EVOLUTION AND CULTURE, Marshall D. SahlinS

and Elman R. Service, Editors. Univ. of

111

Michigan Press, Ann Arbor, Mich. Pp.
131. $3.75.

FAITH, CULTS AND SECTS OF AMERICA, Rich-
ard Mathison. Bobbs-Merrill, 1720 E. 38th
St., Indianapolis 6. Pp. 384. $5.00.

FILIAL RESPONSIBILITY IN THE MODERN
AMERICAN FAMILY, Alvin L. Sehorr. U. S.
Govt. Printing OiIiee, Washington 25. Pp.
45. $.25.

GOALS FOR AMERICANS. Prentice-Hall, Engle-
wood Cliffs, N. J. Pp. 372. $3.50.

HISTORY OF THE CIRCUS IN AMERICA, A,
George L. Chindahl. Caxton Printers,
Caldwell, Idabo. Pp. 279. $5.00.

lMAcE OF TIIE CITY, THE, Kevin Lynch. Har-
vard Univ. Press, Cambridge, Mass. Pp.
194. $5.50.

INTRODUCTION TO SOCIAL WELFARE (2nd ed.) ,
Walter A. Friedlander. Prentice-Hall, En-
glewood Cliffs, N. J. Pp. 589. $7.50.

NEICHBORHOOD CENTERS TODAY. Natl. Fed.
of settlements and Neighborhood Centers,
226 W. 47th St., New York 36. Pp. 239.
Paper. $1.50 (plus $.20 postage).

OUR COMMUNITY, Dorothy and Curtis Mial,
Editors. N. Y. Univ. Press, Washington
Sq., New York 3. Pp. 269. $5.00.

POPULATION AND SOCIETY, Maurice Halb-
waehs. Free Press, 119 W. Lake St., Chi-
cago 1. Pp. 207. $4.50.

RECRUITINc FOR SOCIAL WORK, Elizabeth R.
Jacobs. Natl. Assoc. of Social Workers,
95 Madison Ave., New York 16. Pp. 72.
Paper, $1.25.

SERvICE DIRECTORY OF NATIONAL ORGANIZA-
TIONS 1961. National Social Welfare As-
sembly, 345 E. 46th St., New York 17. Pp.
113. Paper, $2.00.

SOCIAL PROBLEMS IN OUR TIME, S. Kirson
Weinberg. Prentice-Hall, Englewood ClifIs,
N. J. Pp. 600. $6.75.

SOCIAL SECURITY AND VOLUNTARY SOCIAL
WELFARE, Elizabeth Wiekenden. National
Social Welfare Assembly, 315 E. 46th St.,
New York 17. Pp. 106. $10.00.

SOCIAL STATUS AND LEADERSIIIP, Melvin See-
man. College of Education, Ohio State
University, Columbus 10. Pp. 156. Paper,
$3.00. Cloth, $4.00.

VOLUNTEER GROUP ADvISORs IN A NATIONAL
SOCIAL GROUP WORK AGENCY, Daniel

Thursz, MSW. Catholic Univ. of America
Press, 620 Michigan Ave. N.E., Washing-
ton 17, D.C. Pp. 385. $6.00.

WELFARE IN AMERICA, Vaughn Davis Bornet.
Univ. of Oklahoma Press, Norman. Pp. 318.
$4.95.

WORKING WITH GROUPS, Walter M. Lifton.
John Wiley, 440 Park Ave. S., New York
16. Pp. 238. $6.00.

YOUR COUNTRY AND MINE (rev. ed), Gertrude
Stephens Brown. Ginn & Co., Statler Bldg,
Boston 17. Pp. 516. $4.68.

YOUR FLAc AND MINE, Alice Curtis Desmond.
Macmillan Co., 60 5th Ave., New York 11.
Pp. 132. $3.50. i"

Storybooks

BORRY’S NEIcIIROR, Joyee Boyle. Abingdon
Press, 201 8th Ave., 5., Nashville, Tenn.
Pp. 96. $2.00.

BOY WHO DREW BIRDS, TIIE, Polly Cameron.
Coward-MeCann, 210 Madison Ave., New
York 16. Unpaged. $2.50.

CLIFF DWELLERS OF WALNUT CANYON, Carroll
Lane Fenton and Alice Epstein. John Day,
62 W. 45th St., New York 36. Pp. 63. $2.75.

COOK. MY DARLING DAUcIITER. Mildred O.
Knopf. Alfred A. Knopf, 501 Madison Ave.,
New York 22. Pp. 617. $4.95.

DRAG STRIP, William Campbell Gault. E. P.
Dutton, 300 4th Ave., New York 10. Pp.
185. $2.75.

ELEANOR FARJEON’S BOOK. Penguin Books,
3300 Clipper Mill Rd., Baltimore 11, Md.
Pp. 207. Paper, $.85.

ELvEs AND ELLEFOLK: Tales of the Little Peo-
ple. Natalia M. Belting. llolt, Rinehart &
Winston, 383 Madison Ave., New York 17.
Pp. 94. $3.00.

EMILY, Emma Smith. Astor Books, 219 E. 61st
St., New York 21. Pp. 76. $2.75.

FILLY FOR JOAN, A, C. W. Anderson. Macmil-
lan Co., 60 5th Ave., New York 11. Pp. 104.
$3.00.

FLICKA, RICKA, DICKA AND TIIE BIG RED llEN,
Maj Lindman. Albert Whitman Co., 560 W.
Lake St., Chicago 6. Unpaged. $1.50.

FROGS MERRY, Juliet Kepcs. Pantheon Books,
333 Sixth Ave., New York 14. Unpaged.
$2.95.

FROM THIS To TIIAT, Keith W. Jennison.

 

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING

RATES: Words in regular type $.15 each
Words in boldface type $.25 each

Minimum ad accepted . . . . $3.00

DEADLINES: Copy must be received by

the fifth of the month preceding date of
the issue in which ad is desired.

COPY: Type—or clearly print—your message and the address to which you wish
replies sent. Underline any words you want to appear in boldface type.

Send copy with remittance to:

RECREATION Classified Advertising, 8 West Eighth Street, New York 11, New York.

HELP WANTED

Therapists for California
State Hospitals. Opportu-
nity to plan and conduct
individual patient recrea-
tion as well as special

tunities;

No experience required. ter.
Starting salary $436.00 per
month; promotional Oppor-
liberal employ-
ee benefits. Write State

$6,000,000 expansion
under way to 500 beds. Du-

ties encompass all phases
of child and adult recrea-
tion. Forty-hour week, good

group activities; modern
equi ment and facilities
avai able. Positions open to
college graduates with ma-
jor in recreation or recrea-
tion therapy, which includ-
ed supervised field work.

Personnel Board, 801 Capi-
tol Avenue, Sacramento,
California.

Recreational Worker for
321-bed aeute general teach-
ing hospital in medical cen-

salary. Graduate with rec-
reation major preferred.

Send complete resume to
Personnel Director, Monte-
fiore Hospital, Pittsburgh

13, Pennsylvania.

The publisher assumes no reapo'naibility for services or items advertised here.

112

David MeKay, 119 W. 40th St., New York
18. Unpaged. $2.95.

GAGGLE OF GEESE, A, Eve Merriam and Paul
Galdone. Alfred A. Knopf, 501 Madison
Ave., New York 22. Unpaged. $2.95.

MERRY ANIMAL TALES (rev. ed.), Madge A.

Bigham. Little, Brown, 64 Beacon St., Bos-
ton 6. Pp. 91. $2.50.

MONKEY SEE, MONKEY DO, 1nez Hogan. E. P.
Dutton, 300 Park Ave. S., New York 10. Un-
paged. $2.50.

MOOMINSUMMER MADNESS, Tove Jansson.

Henry Z. Walek, 101 5th Ave., New York 3.
Pp. 163. $2.75.

NAUcIITY BADcER, TIIE. Charles E. Tnttle,
Rutland, Vt. Unpaged. Paper, $1.00.

ONCE UPON A TIME STORIES, translated and
adapted by Marie Ponset. Grosset and Dun-
lap, 1107 Broadway, New York 10. Un-
paged. $1.95.

PEOPLE OF TIIE WORLD, Vol. 1 (Zulus, Sherpas,
Maoris, Decean Indians), Agnes Jackson
and others. Henry Z. Walek, 101 5th Ave.,
New York 3. Pp. 32. $2.50.

PITIDOE TIIE COLOR MAKER, Glen Dines. Mae-
millan, 60 5th Ave., New York 11. Un-
paged. $3.00.

TWO LITTLE BIRDS AND THREE, Juliet Kepes.
Houghton Milllin, 2 Park St., Boston 7. Pp.
. 62. $2.50.

VILLAcE OF HIDDEN WISIIES, TIIE, David
Fletcher. Pantheon Books, 333 6th Ave.,
New York 14. Pp. 157. $3.00.

WIIO WOKE TIIE SUN? M. S. Scidman. Mac-
millan Co., 60 5th Avc., New York 11. Un-
paged. $1.95.

WILL SPRINc BE EARLY? OR WILL SPRINc BF.

LATE? Crockett Johnson. Thomas Y. Crow-
ell, 432 Park Ave. S., New York 16. Pp.
48. $2.75.

ZOO BREAKS OUT, Mira Lobe. A. S. Barnes, '

11 E. 36th St., New York 16. Pp. 128.
$2.50.

MAGAZINE ARTICLES

CIIALLENcE, January 196}
Planners Say ‘Yes.’ Voters Say ‘N o,’ Werner
Z. Hirsch.
JOPHER, December 1961
18 Social Recreation Postulates, William D.
Ross.
LIFE, December 22, 196l
Special Issue: Our Splendid Outdoors.
NEW YORKER, December 23, 1961
Who You Are and What You Think You’re
Doing (New York City Youth Board).

OUTDOOR BOATING, N ovem ber-Decentber 196i

Houseboat Boating, Roy B. Ripley.
Scuba Diving from Outboards, II. B. Johnn-
sen.
SAFETY EDUCATION, January 1962
Toys Teach Safcty, Lois Lewis
Unauthorized Play Spaees.

SATURDAY EvENING POST, December 23 & 30,
1961
Youth: The Cool Generation, George Gal-
lup and Evan Hill.

SENIOR CITIZEN, Janaary1962
The Basic Needs of Older People, Wilbur
J. Cohen.
WOMAN’S DAY, January 1962
The Story of American Needlework #8:
Quilting, Rose Wilder Lane.

RECREATION

You [it  - - - °  ALL-AMERICAN HEAVY-DUTY

roll it out . . .TUCK IT AWAY
PICNIC _ GRILLS

  

Features Not Found
In Any Other Grill

Built just like a Small, com-
plete cooking range. Posilive

   
      
 
    
  
  
  

Stationary Portable 6-way draft control gives faster,
Style for MOdelas easier kindling saves fuel in-
permanent . Illustrated, ” P’ , , , ’

installation - __ _ commete surcs tenderer, JlllCleI‘ steaks,

s  . 8 5 chops, barbecues. Cooks, bakes,

warms-——burns charcoal, wood

$43.70 ‘ :

Weight 180 lbs.

PATENT

We'ghtzos'bs' or coal. Grill revolves to per-

PEND'NG mit cooking to windward. Cast

 

of heavy stove iron with steel

Any room can become a game room in seconds with the Sieo
TUCK-AWAY. It rolls and unfolds quickly, safely. Exclusive
“Floating Fold” enables one person to open or close the

pipe support, for lifetime serv-
ice. Shipped fully assembled.

table in 3 seconds. Full regulation size—yet folds to only * _. -- a")
18” x 60” for storlng. USTTA approved for ofEcial tourna- * Write for Literature on All-Amcrican Picnic Grills, Heavy-
ment PlaY- The TUCK-AWAY PrOVIdeS an efHCient SOlution Duty Picnic Tables, Park Benches and Chain Link Tennis Nets

to the need for leisure time relaxationw—in industry, hotels,

schools, hospitals, and other institutions. Get complete
information on the TUCK-AWAY by writing. A M E R I c A N

 PLAYGROUND DEVICE (0., ANDERSON, IND.
MANUFACTURING COMPANY, INC. WORLD'S LARGEST MANUFACTURERS or FINE PARK. PICNIC.
5215 Eden Ave, $0,, Minneapolis, Minn" Dept405. PLAYGROUND. swuuMING POOL AND DRESSING ROOM EQUIPMENT

 

 

 

1962 National Recreation Association District Conferences

DISTRICT DATES LOCATION HOTEL

I4th Annual Feb. I I-I4 Berkeley. Calif. Claremont Hotel
California and
Pacific Southwest
Recreation and
Park Co/nference

Joint Virginia Recreation March 26-28 Charlottesville, Va. Monticello Hotel
Society and Mid-South
District Executives

 

Conference
Great Lakes April l-4 Chicago, Ill. Hotel Congress
Southern April I0-I2 Jekyll Island, Ga. Wanderer Motel
Southeastern Section
Southwest April IO-I3 Santa Fe. NM. La Fonda Hotel
Midwest , April I7-20 Wichita. Kan. Hotel Broadview
Pacific Northwest April 29-May 2 Vancouver. B.C.. Canada Hotel Vancouver
District Recreation
and Parks Conference
4lst Annual New York May 6-9 Grossinger. N.Y. Grossinger’s Country Club
State and Middle
Atlantic District
Recreation Conference
New England May l3-l6 Wentworth, NH. Hotel Wentworth-by-the-Sea

W

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

  

Festive, Delicious

 ' n I I; _ In' I i H“  lfhtllandZIDI

sizes and boxes

5, I :  . 1.,  £ ) I I of 21 eggs in
1 M, t a." _ g _   tempting. as-
I.   i ,1 :  . " ‘ L . sorted flavors.

 
  

for top
holiday sales

SURE-EASY FUND RAISING PROFITS

THE PROVEN CHERRYDALE WAY!

Give a lift to fund raising campaigns for

equipment and other expenses easin and . .
quickly by selling dairy fresh , , . Qualzty ' Varzety

(Z2 Via/é gar/m4

qualify confections

  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 

Tempting. best-selling Easter specialties —
plus more than a dozen beautifully pack-
aged varieties of irresistible, old-fashioned
candies available the year-round, that really , .
sell themselves, and give your organization Proven Populamty
big profits. Recreation Directors: Write, Since 1907

stating affiliation and title, to receive .. .

 

  
  

 
  

  

Enclose llm cmpan m an ran-hp, 0"! M04 In DEP'I’. R
E. CHERRY SONS I (30., INC... .5730 Baltimore Ave.

 
 

Philadelphia 4 3, Po.

Glnfltmtn
Plus“ and my FREE candy samplers. wrfh full default

     
   
  
  

  

FREE CANDY SAMPLES ° FUND RAISING BROCHURE
CHERRYDALE FARMS. DE” B 5230 summon: AVE. 

PHILADELPHIA 43, PA. Wm

Cify ,_ .

  

 
   
   
 

 

