 

roll it in . . . . PLAY
roll it out . . .TUCK IT AWAY

‘1l

 

Any room can become a game room in seconds with the Sico
TUCK-AWAY. It rolls and unfolds quickly, safely. Exclusive
“Floating Fold” enables one person to Open or close the
table in 3 seconds. Full regulation size—yet folds tO only
18” x 60” for storing. USTTA approved for Ofiicial tourna-
ment play. The TUCK-AWAY provides an efficient solution
to the need for leisure time relaxation—in industry, hotels,
schools, hospitals, and other institutions. Get complete
information on the TUCK-AWAY by writing.

00 MANUFACTURING COMPANY, me.

5215 Eden Ave. 80., Minneapolis, Minn., Dept. 405.

RE- BOUND-NET

A huge, tensioned, rebound surface -— Obsoletes all

backboards . . . perfect for hit, catch and throw —
tennis, volleyball, lacrosse, baseball, softball . . . “The
Timing is Right”, a natural game interval. The net
actually soaks up time —- before the ball zings back . . .

allows a get-ready pause — even a novice can stroke.

BALL-BOY CO. , INC.

 

  

 
  

   

 

 
  
 

 
  
 

26 Milburn Street, Bronxville. N. Y.

  

Hundreds of Recreational Opportunities

GUIDE TO SUMMER CAMPS
AND SUMMER SCHOOLS

1962, 13th ed., 320 pp._. cloth $34.40, paper $2.20

Private resident camps, tours, unusual Opportunities.
academic sessions, and programs for the handicapped
and maladjusted are informativer presented to aid in
the selection of an exciting summer experience.

location and enrollment
___.__ director‘s winter address

fees and length Of camping period

 

featured activities

unique programs and facilities

Order from

PORTER SARGENT

IloBeacon Street Boston 8, Mass.

Pubiisher of
THE HANDBOOK OF PRIVATE SCHOOLS

DIRECTORY FOR EXCEPTIONAL
CHILDREN

JUNIOR COLLEGE GUIDE

 

 

- - - Tennis Without a Court

Simply tilt the frame-to change height or distance of
rebound —- increase net tension for extra speed . . .
Use indoors (it’s silent), outdoors — any area, large
or small. Play as close as 8' or as far as 40' from net

. . . Rustproof, light, portable, folds flat, telescopes
from 10' to 6' high -— 10' or 20' long units.

Let us send details.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

   
   
      
 

 

    
 

      
 
 

 
  
      
 

 
  
 

 

    

   
    
   
 
 

HOPPY - TAW
the only official

taw to play

      
    

HOPPY TAW

S ENC". BOARD
fiver Mofficial size
SC TCH COURTS

 

   
      
  

   
 
 

9

 V Do it yourself
:12. /

  

Stencils fast 8. easy

One board 3' x 3'
does it all

Schools - Recreation Centers shouldn’t be without

'0' healthy, lively MAIL ORDER HOPPY-TAW CORPORATION

activities !

301 East 17th So. ' Salt Lake City 15, Utah

Please send stencil agrd unit checked below:

E] Standard Court Stencil 30" x I: Hoppy Taw Maqic Stencil Kit

3?" SlUFdY hardboard—lo Slen' [Stencil paper]. Includes Magic
Cll numbers. (complete court d

size 5* x I3') . . . . . . . . ..$15.oo Sienc” an
Sienc”. tour color cups O‘F paint.

numbers. Roller

E] Sigior Standard Court Stencil chalk and HoppyJ-aw. AvaiL
I

x 24” sturdy hardboard— _ _ o
0 stencil numbers. [complete able “1 bOll‘ 5'195- El Semo"

l court size 4' x IO') ....$l0.00 El Junior ......$2.98

HOPPY-TAW CORPORATION
301 East 17th 50., Salt lake City, Utah

JUNE I962

GENERAL

ADMINISTRATION

PROGRAM

MONTHLY DIGEST

276

VOL. LV NO. 6

water for Recreation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Robert Hutchings
Aquamania makes water a key element in outdoor recreation

Today’s Philadelphia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

The story of a. twentieth-century renaissance city

Recreation Up The Creek . .
Small town makes a big splash

Philadelphia’s Garden Blocks and 4-H Clubs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Louise Bush-Brown

Community pride bursts into bloom

Safety First—Fore and Aft . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Reminders for boating safety ashore and afloat

Recreation Demands on Public Water Supplies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Charles H. W. Foster
Reappraisal of reservoir legislation is in order

The World of the Swimming Pool . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .‘ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Robert A. Dentler

Age-level considerations and planning
We Must Preserve Campground Habitat . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Arthur W. Magil

How to countermand over-use and abuse

Outdoor Recreation and the Delaware River Basin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Frank W. Dressler
Development of a “megalopolitan” area

Notes for the Administrator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

E ffect of fees on playground attendance

Competitive Examination for Hiring Lifeguards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Franklin A. Lindeburg
Eliminate haphazard judgment in choosing personnel

Quick Action Pays Oil . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Kenneth Smithee
Maricopa County, Arizona, acquires large regional park system

Flood-Plain Zoning Provides Recreation Areas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Limited development of low-lying areas serves recreation needs

Across the River . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Harry Hollands and Stanley Steneh
International swim competition

Sailing in Quincy Bay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Lawrence P. Creedon
An organized instruction program

Your Minor League . .

Ben M a ggio

A place for Little League rejects

Music Under the Redwoods . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Matt C. Thiltgen
Camp program supplements summer playground activity

Turning Dust into Spray . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Doyle W. Henry
Water sports in the Texas Panhandle

Reporter’s Notebook 278 Letters 282 As We Go To Press 283 Market News

Trade Mart 317 Rx for the III and Handicapped 319 Personnel 320 New Publications

RECREATION is published monthly except July and August by the National Recreation
Association, a service organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 8 West Eighth
Street, New York 11, New York, is on file in public libraries and is indexed in the Readers'
Guide. Subscription $5.00 a year. Canadian and foreign subscription rate 35.75. Re-en-
tered as second-class matter April 25, 1950, at the Post Oihce in New York, New York,
under Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided
for in Section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized May 1, 1924. Microfilms of current
issues available from University Microfilms, 313 N. First Street, Ann Arbor, Michigan.

Copyright. 1962. by the National

Printed in the U.S.A.

   
 

DUCATIONAL
BESS

SSOCIATION
OF
AMERICA

tion Association.

Recreatioo Association, Incorporated g

 

PRICE 60c

280

286

288

289

291

292

294

297

301

302

303

305

307

308

309

311

312

313

316
323

The orticles herein
printed ore the expres-
sion of the writers one
not 0 stotement of policy
of the Notional Recrea-

RECREATION

RECREATION

 

Editor in Chief, JOSEPH PRENDERGAST
Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON

Assistant Editor, ELVIRA DELANY

Associate Editors
Administration, GEORGE BUTLER
Program, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

Business Manager

FRANK ROWE

A d vertising Manager
ESTA GLUCK

On the Cover
FUN IN THE SURF. A $400 Grand

Award in the Senior Division of the
1960 Kodak High School Photo Contest
went to Charles H. Fretzin of Lane
Technical High School, Chicago, for
this picture taken while on vacation at
Malibu Beach, California. He says it
was taken from a pier and was com-
pletely unposed. It pays to take a cam-
era along on your vacation trip!

Next Issue

As we sign off for the summer
months, our September Issue is already
well under way. It will, of course,
carry last minute news of the 44th Na-
tional Recreation Congress. A special
article by Bud Wilkinson will discuss
the role of recreation departments in
our country’s physical fitness program
as set up by the President’s Council on
Youth Fitness. A supplemcntary article
will cover unusual fitness programs be-
ing offered by recreation departments.

Photo Credits

Page 280, U.S. Department of Agri-
culture; 292, Fabian Bachrach; 293
(and 301, center and lower), Leo
Trachtenberg, Harvest Films, New York
City; 294, Lester Williams, Amarillo
(Texas) Times; 295, (upper right) Sal-
vation Army, (upper left) courtesy Ful-
vacin (antibiotic for athlete’s foot),
(lower left) Max Tharpe, Statesville,
North Carolina; 299, Maurice Robbins,
Philadelphia; 309, Nancy Lee Studios,
South Braintree, Massachusetts; 311,
Bennett Studio; 314, (left) Mike Stru-

ber, Amarillo, Texas.

JUNE, 1962

Yes, hundreds of park and rec-
reation departments are iump-
ing on the refreshment band-

wagon. You’ll add 10% to 20%
to your available operating

funds.

All Gold Medal Equipment can
pay for itself out of Profits!

 

 

M 12197 L0; '32:? 1961 CG?“-
log and detailed book on re-
freshments. We have everything
you need for HOT DOGS, POP-
CORN, SNO-KONES, COTTON
CANDY AND ALL OTHER RE-
FRESHMENT ITEMS.

 
  
   
   

THEATRE

FOR CHILDREN
PLAYS DANCE

Booking ’62-’63 TOURS Now

Cantact
FRANCES SCHRAM

BRIGGS MANAGEMENT

1475 Broadway, New York 36, N. Y.
Bryant 9-6780

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

Refreshment Supply Division

DAL PRllDllBTS BUMPANY

1821-31 Freeman Avenue, Cincinnati 14, Ohio

 
 
 

  
     
  
    
 
 

 

v 3 ‘_
POPC'OR 
a . ”

u g .. g n", POPCORN

’ztt'!

I
.3-

  

 

8c profit per 10c
sole. Equipment and
supplies cost under
$300.00. Over 50%
of your potrons will
buy a bag.

‘1.

“in

COTTON CAN DY

Almost 9c profit per

10c sole. Equipment
ond supplies $300.00.

Extremely popular
with oil Children un-

der 16.

  

SNO-KONES

8c profit per 101:.
Equipment ond sup-
plies costs I: n d e r
$225.00. Equipment
only 149.50. Every-
body loves Sno-Kones
—the most refreshing
drink you can eot.

r-----------------1

I Send more information on
: REFRESHMENT moms to:

   

Nome

Address
City
State

L----------------

I
The most trusted name in Refreshments Today! '

 

‘VOBLB WIDE GAMES

Delaware, Ohio

Enioyed by Adults and Children
Sturdily built for rugged use

Skill games and table games

Equipment games and puzzles

Manufactured and sold by
Warren and Mary Lee Bailey

I Write for Free Catalog

 

277

 
  

Jet-Age Swimming

The old swimming hole may have
been good enough for grandpa, but the
jet-age city needs more and better holes
than grandpa ever had to assure the
new generation can swim like a fish
and dive like a rock. Tom Lantz, su-
perintendent of public recreation for
the Metropolitan Park District in Ta-
coma, Washington, reports huge suc-
cess with modern instruction techniques
which teach children to swim in three
weeks. The classes are divided into
eight grades, with a “graduation exam”
at the end of each. In Tacoma children
are taught the crawl stroke from the
first, no intermediate dog paddle. The
three-week graduates demonstrate their
ability to swim three hundred yards of
the crawl, one hundred yards breast-
stroke. and seventy-five feet butterfly
stroke. Youngsters must be able to com-
plete thirty minutes of a survival swim
or survival float. They are given Red
Cross swimming certificates. There is
a continuing program for the graduates
-—diving. life-saving, and competitive
swimming classes go on all summer
long. For morning classes. the pools
are roped off in class sections with all
beginners at one end. When they reach
the other end of that pool, they can
swim.

Astronaut Day

When the countdown was over in
Cleveland, Ohio. a myriad of jewel col-
ors filled the air . . . Astronaut Day was
well in progress. The brightly colored
balloons which rose in the air over the
city were filled with helium and had
messages attached. The contest. spon-
sored by thc Cleveland Recreation De-
partmcnt, the Pick-n-Pay supermarket
chain, and Radio Station WJW. was a
resounding success. Responses to the
attached cards came from Pennsyl-
vania; Long lsland. New York; and

278

Martha’s Vineyard, Massachusetts.
Seven balloons reached Long Island
cities. One man went to his local Cham-
ber of Commerce to certify that he
found the balloon. The winning prize,
a two hundred-dollar merchandise
award, went to an eight-year-old from
Southampton, New York. Youngsters
picked up entry blanks at the super-
markets. There was good radio, TV,
and newspaper coverage“ Fifty thou-
sand balloons were released. Over five
thousand returns came in. Cleveland
Mayor Celebrezze broadcast the count-
down at Radio Station WJW. As the
balloons disappeared, they carried
youngsters’ h0pes of winning one of the
fifty prizes to be awarded to the bal-
loons traveling the farthest distance.
The cards attached to the balloons were
actually business reply cards. They
contained space for the finders to write
their name and address. Awarding
prizes to the finders as well as thc racers
assured that the cards would he re-
turned.

Out of this \Vorld

Minot, North Dakota. is sitting on
top of the world. The city used a play-
ground display layout of a rocket on
launching pad. a moon. and the world
as a promotional gimmick for an in-
creased mill levy. lt worked—the bud-
get was doubled. The moon and the
world are hollow domes which have a

 

A REPORTER’S
NOTEBOOK

  

door and two windows along with cir-
cular seats fourteen inches wide. They
seat five adults or eight children. There
are three other domes in addition to
the earth and moon-—-a pumpkin,
Humpty Dumpty, and igloo—used in
the playgrounds of Minot. Adults sit
and visit, sew, read in them and chil-
dren rest and use them as shelter on
windy or rainy days. The maintenance
crew constructed the domes using a
welded rod frame covered with metal
lathe and coated with stucco.

The Pennants Fly

The Garden Club of Illinois puts on
an Arhor Week flag-waving campaign
to get more trees planted. Since the
Plant Illinois project began five years
ago, garden clubs have reported 57,580
new trees. White pennants, the symbol
of the campaign, are to be found on
trees of all descriptions. This year the
clubs labored to help replace thousands
of trees wiped out hy Dutch elm disease.

Attention, Snrfhoarders

Surfboarding will he on a restricted
basis this summer at Bolsa Chica and
Huntington Beach State Parks, Cali-
fornia. At Bolsa Chica, the sport will
he confined to the southerly quarter-
mile of the beach from June 1 to Octo-
her 1. At Huntington Bcach, surfhoard-
ing will be prohibited or restricted to
certain areas depending upon how large
a crowd is using the park. The restric-
tion is heing imposed to protect non-
surfboard visitors who far outnumber
the surfboarders. This restriction will
apply during the full year at this heavily
used park.

Operation Youth

Camp Kilmer in Edison, New Jersey,
where several million boys, hardly out
of their teens, prepared for shipment to
faraway places and battlefields during

RECREATION

‘Vorld War II, is, for the fifth consecu-
live year, opening its gates—and arms
—-to thousands of boys and girls from
lozens of communities, as near as Edi-
ion and as far as Jamaica, New York,
1nd Philadelphia. This is “Operation
Youth.”

The program offers the facilities of
the camp to sponsored youth groups in
the h0pe of teaching these youngsters
self-discipline and group living and to
provide healthy recreation. While
Camp Kihner sets up a few rules and
regulations as a guide, the young vis-
itors are under the control of their own
leaders who plan their daily program.

Operation Youth, conducted through
June, July, and August, has already
scheduled visits by Sea Scouts, day
camps, Cub Scouts, community cen-
ters, Brownies, Boy Scouts and Junior
Cadets. During these months,_it is ex-
pected that Camp Kilmer will have been
host to some three thousand boys and
girls. Two barracks, each accommodat-
ing sixty boys and girls, have been set
aside in diiferent areas just for this
program.

The youngsters have the privilege of
eating at the post cafeteria or preparing
their own meals at cookouts. Most of
them, of course, prefer the adventure
of preparing their own meals (no re-
flection on Army cooking, of course),
bringing most of the food from home.
They make their own beds, too, and
clean their quarters during their stay
and prior to departure. They police
their area. Although to many a soldier
this represents work,'to the kids this is
just another type of fun. They use the
post’s indoor swimming pool, baseball
diamond, picnic areas, and movies. The
camp also has a chapel for Sunday
service, and a dispensary is ready for
those scratches and bruises that young-
sters are very likely to pick up while
playing.

PEOPLE IN THE NEWS
Charles H. W. Foster, Massachusetts

commissioner of natural resources,* was
recently appointed chairman of the ten-
man Cape Cod National Seashore Ad-
visory Commission. Vice-chairman of
the commission is Joshua A. Nicker-
son, an Orleans, Massachusetts, busi-

"' See Mr. Foster’s article, “Recreation De-
mands on Public Water Supplies,” Page 292.

JUNE, 1962

nessinan and civic leader. Robert A.
McNeeee, a town selectman of Chat-
ham, Massachusetts, was named com-
mission secretary, and Leo Diehl, head
of the Massachusetts Excise Tax Divi-
sion, represents Secretary of the lnte-
rior Stewart Udall on the commission.
Land-acquisition activities of the new
national seashore are being directed by
George H. Thompson, whose office
is in the former U.S. Coast Guard Life-
boat Station in the town of Eastham.

Robert F. Gibbs has been named
superintendent of the Cape Cod Na-
tional Seashore Project. He was form-
erly superintendent of Cape Hatteras
National Seashore Recreation Area and
Fort Raleigh National Historic Site in
North Carolina.

Constance Skid-
more, a recrea-
tion major at Indi-
ana University, was
honored as the
most outstanding

l 1962 senior in the
‘ School of Health,
Physical Education, and Recreation at
the school’s Senior Banquet. Miss Skid-
more came to Indiana University on a
scholarship awarded by the Youth Rec-
reation Association of the Evansville,
Indiana, Department of Public Recrea-

 

tion.

lt’s bouquet throw-
ing time in West-
chester County,
New York. Dr.
Sal J. Prezioso,
executive oflicer to
the county execu-
tive in White

 

Plains, New York, recently received an

Award for Merit from the Westchester
County Recreation Society in recogni-
tion of his dedicated service to the field
of public recreation over a period of
twenty-five years. A public-service
award was presented to Ed Riley,
president of the Westchester County
Swimming Association.

William Penn Mott, Jr., superin-
tendent of the Oakland, California Park
Dcpartment since 1946, has been ap-
pointed manager of the East Bay Re-

Continued on. Page 322

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

“my grandfather makes the
best playground equipment

in the whole world ...because
he loves little people like me! he makes

slides and swings and see-saws and; all
kinds of things. they're real strongl'andg.
they're very safe. if you’re going to buy
playground things you better talk to .my
grandfather or my father first. they’re bdth
named mr. burke.”

I I O I I I I I I I o I I I o I I I I I I I I o o I I I O I I I I I I O I a a I a I I O I I I I I I O O O I.

Send me your playground planningand specification file.

J. E. BURKE COMPANY

P. 0. Box 986 Dept. 55 P. 0. Box 549 Dept. 55

 

 

New Brunswick. Fond du Lac.
New Jersey 0R Wisconsin
Sec.F
Name:
Street:
City: State:
279

WATER

FOR
RECREATION

OUR COUNTRY is now in the grip of

what some call “aquamania.” Mil-
lions of people—and most of them to-
day live in metropolitan areas—enjoy
the water as part of their total commu-
nity environment. They are people who
picnic or swim, who like to beachcomb,
birdwatch, or simply walk along the
shore. If they are able to, they like to build their houses
close to water and, if the water quality is suitable, they like
their parks to border the water. They enjoy its scenic values
and are enthusiastic about sailing, power boating, canoeing.
Desirability of water areas is further illustrated, in many

 

cases, by the fantastic increases in value of waterfront real
estate.

Water is a key element in outdoor recreation. The Out-
door Recreation Resources Review Commission found that

MR. HUTCHINGS, a member of the Division of Water Supply
and Pollution Control of the U. 5. Public Health Service, was

for a number of years a volunteer staff member in public re-
lations for the National Recreation Association.

280

1

  

IM—PACT! A raindrop falls in shallow, muddy water on soil.

Robert Hutcllings

forty-four percent of the population prefer water-based rec-
reation activities over any others. Water is a prime factor
in most outdoor recreation activities and also enhances rec-
reation on land. Recreation on the water is increasing and
this trend is likely to continue. In fact, ORRRC studies in-
dicate that by the year 2000 swimming will be the most pop-
ular single outdoor recreation activity. The trend will be
greatly accelerated if pollution-control programs are suc-
cessful in cleaning up streams, lakes, and seashores. The
problems stemming from pressure on water resources are
considered among the most difficult in the entire outdoor
recreation field. “As with land, the usefulncss of water for
outdoor recreation hinges on three factors: proximity to
population; physical and legal accessibility; and suitability
for recreation purposes.”*

AGGRESSIVE EFFORT to control water pollution is the only

economical way of incrcasing play areas in many ur-
ban areas. By making more water acreage available for
water sports and by making river, lake, and ocean beaches

"‘ For summary of ORRRC report see RECREATION, March and April
1962.

RECREATION

 

lln economical way to increase your water recreation acreage

suitable for play, a city or state park system can materially
increase its total recreation facilities where acquisition of
already developed land should be impossible. By the same
token, the recovery of water recreation resources can add
thousands of acres of usable play space to land areas which
are now useless because of sight or odor nuisances or health
hazards.

The need for these water-orientated parks and recreation
areas is pressing. Our mushrooming towns and cities are
said to have 750,000 acres in parks close enough to popula-
tion centers to be used after school or work, against an esti-
mated need for two million acres. A similar disparity exists
between present supply and demand in the case of recreation
areas (mostly state parks) which are within a couple of
hours in travel time from population centers and which can
be used for all-day or weekend recreation.

The recreation leader can play a very powerful role in
helping his own community develop an adequate clean water
program. Expertly prepared economic analyses are in exist-
ence which attempt to measure the money value of recrea-
tion and the economic loss which occurs when water pollu-
tion destroys these values. This is useful information to
bring before a city council but it pales in significance to the
firsthand evidence which a recreation or youth leader can
present of the losses in human values which occur when a
beach or park must be closed.

Pollution drives fish and wildlife away from the water
as well as people. The United States Fish and Wildlife Serv-
ice has said that we lose more fish and wildlife habitat each
year to pollution than we gain back through stocking and
wildlife restoration programs. This is not an upstream or
a national park problem, comfortably distant from the city
or suburban recreation department, but a loss in recreation
values which is occurring in city rivers and streams and city
estuaries. Along the west bank of the Hudson, people fish
endlessly in polluted waters, dutifully throwing back their
pathetic catches hecause the fish are too dangerous or too
tainted to eat.

Name your poison and it adds up to fifteen million dead
fish each year, according to 1961 estimates of the Division
of Water Supply and Pollution Control of the US. Public
Health Service. 'The tabulation of toxic materials shows
that agricultural chemicals lead the list of killers, followed
by industrial wastes. Last year, forty-five states reported
significant poisoning. Only five could say they did not suf-
fer from such aHiction or, if they did, it was not in any
significant amount. The total mileage affected was 1,700
miles of rivers, fifty miles of lake and bay shore lines,
and six thousands acres of lakes, reservoirs, and bays.

The Public Health Servicc reports show that every day
numerous small “slugs” of toxic pollution are shot into

JUNE, 1962

countless Howages, killing relatively few fish and passing
unnoticed into water used by people for drinking, cooking,
and washing. Fortunately, human beings have a higher tol-
erance for poison than fish. Tests have shown that agricul-
tural chemicals are so potent, and are such an unknown fac-
tor in the ecology of the land, that the time is past for strong
control on what is dumped into the land and in the waters.

Last fall, a stretch of the Susquehanna River was poisoned
so thoroughly that hundreds of thousands of fish floated
belly up. The state of Pennsylvania said it was caused by
acid mine wastes pumped into the river and sent a bill for
$58,000 to the responsible company. The state has yet to
collect.

ABOUT FORTY YEARS AGO our friends of the Izaak Walton

League began an organized campaign to fight water
pollution. They began this campaign hy passing a resolu-
tion that a “civilized community is morally bound to take
care of its waste in a decent and civilized manner.” They
have held to this eminently sensible opinion ever since. The
Izaak Walton League is by no means alone any more in its
fight against water pollution. One by one, other groups have
joined the battle and are fighting it at national level, within
their own states, and perhaps most important, in their own
communities. It is not surprising that in the forefront of
many of these campaigns have been men and women whose
primary interest has been recreation.

There are two things which one can say at the outset
about the relationship between water pollution and recrea-
tion. The first is that water pollution is not necessary and
that something can be done to prevent it. The second is that
something must be done.

A sympathetic observer not long ago told a conservation
group to adopt a three-point criteria of water quality and
complain accordingly as the waters in their own communi-
ties fail to live up to these criteria. They are exactly as ap-
plicable to recreation people as to conservationists.

The three questions are: can you swim in your river or
lake, can you fish in it, and can you enjoy being on the
water or along its shores? If the answer to any one of these
questions is NO, water pollution is robbing your recreation
program and the people in your community of a priceless

possession. if:

0 Water for recreation offers a problem with myriad
complexities and perplexities. Some aspects af its Hy-
dra-headed challenge are covered in articles that fal-
Iaw: "Recreation Demands on Public Water Supplies,"
Pages 292-3; “Outdoor Recreation and the Delaware
River Basin," Pages 299-301; “Flaod-Plain Zoning Pra-
vides Recreatian Areas," Page 307; and "Dust lnta
Spray," Pages 3i3-4.—Ed.

281

Leased FREE!

Stop wasting time recording inventory costs,
handing out bolls ond paying I’Op prices for low
quality bolls. Instoll this ottroctive, cost-cutting
TFT Table Tennis Boll Meter NOWI

 

leosed FREE to responsible ogencies on $10.00
deposit su biect to refund. Trouble-free Operotion
ossured—return mochine for FREE repoir.- Attroc-
tive hard wood and metol cabinet—7V2 x 8V2 x 15
inches high. Eosy to install. Holds 120 balls—
dispenses eoch for 10¢. Choice of 3 grodes of
t0p quolity bolls. Use profit to mointoin and re-
ploce poddIes, nets, etc. No risk guorontee. Send
for free folder: “Stop Wosting Their Time."

T. r. TWARDZIK 8. (0., 0' '

INCOIFOIATED

SHENANDOAH, PENNA.

 

    

GET THE GUS
T0 VOCALIZE

WITH .
NATIONAL’S DANDY

"SING-ALONG sous suntan!

Meetings that begin or end with sing-along sessions
are successful meetings! Watch your gang warm up
fast with a lusty group sing! Send for National's
fantastic free catalog of more than 850 all-time hit
songs. available in slide form for as low as 50c a
tune! Need a projector? Let us know . . . we'll save
you real dough! Write today to:

NATIONAL STUDIOS
46 West 48th street. N. Y. 36. N. Y.

 

GIFT BOOK OF PERSONAI. IDEAS by MARY M. SCOTT

Here is an excellent sampling of the best home-
town recipes. Whether you're a tyre in the kitchen
or a cordon bleu chef, you’ll revel in the revela-
tions of an experienced cook whose delicious
dishes are fun to make. Only $2.50 postpaid.

GREENWIEH BOOK PUBLISHERS. INC.
282 SEVENTH AVENUE NEW YORK on

book manuscripts wanted

282

  
 
 
 
 

Drama Given Free Play

Sirs:

It took a long time for the idea to
“take root” but you would be thrilled
and amazed to see how creative drama
has come into its own with some of the
men prescribed daily to my recreational
guidance at a Topeka hospital.

Following the annual “kick-off” for
our Creative Writing Contest, a patient
said he wanted help in producing a
movie-musical and that his motivation
had come from assistance given by a
volunteer from Kansas University (an
English instructor) who directed our
creative writers’ workshop for psychotic
men.

Permission was obtained for such an
activity (for clinical purposes only),
8MM movie films were ordered, a nurs-
ing assistant brought his movie Kodak,
and we were in the business! The men
chose songs first, then decided how the
songs would fit into a plot. We blocked
out the scenes on the blackboard by
writing dialogue and action suggested
by various members. Whenever thcre
was a clash of opinion about what went
into the final script, we took a vote.

Members designcd stage sets, con-
structing them of wrapping paper (we
can’t be extravagant with taxpayers’
money). Some supports were made of
strips of plywood. Each man decided
which part of the work he would assume
on the production staff. A female pa-
tient ( John Powers-trained, with eXPeri-
ence at Bonwit Teller and N eiman-Mar-
cus) was our leading lady—most attrac-
tive and c00perative.

We used a tape recorder for our
audio and synchronized it with the
films. Volunteers assisted as pianists,
actors, actresses, projectionists, makeup
artists, and wardrobe mistresses. An in-
dustrial therapy patient did the record-
ing. Our choreography was done by our
corrective therapist who was thrilled to
work in a free play situation.

The chief psychiatrist of our section
came a number of times to observe rc-
hearsals. He likes this method of pro-
cedure better than psychodrama be-
cause the patients have to think, make
choices, plan, work together, practice,
and then see what they’ve accomplished.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

LETTERS

Readers are invited to share their
views on these pages. Comments
of general interest are always wel-

come. —- The Editors.

 
 

We held a cast party, a premiere
showing (invitation only), and awarded
Oscars (made in ceramics). A second
group of patients has just begun on a
script; even so they have completed the
first act.

Mas. ELIZABETH HEINZ.

Kansas.

Tapeka,

Bowling in College

Sirs:

Football, baseball, basketball, and
track have long been a part of the Amer-
ican college scene, but thc scene is shift-
ing and broadening, and competitive
intercollegiate bowling is increasing in
favor and acceptance-as facilities are
being added on campus after campus.

In the Midwest, howling is included
in the program at Notre Dame, South-
ern Methodist, and Minnesota. Out on
the West Coast, keglers are a part of the
picture at UCLA, Stanford, California.
and Oregon. The latter holds the dis-
tinction of being the first university to
award lctters in bowling.

It is easy to see why this coeduca-
tional sport is so popular on campus.
Not only is it a fine competitive team
sport, but a fine “date” activity as well,
and a splendid all-round coeducational
activity at any level. Of coursc, it will
never take the place of the p0pular spec-
tator sports liecausc, even under the best
conditions and circumstances, the pos-
sible number of spectators is restrictcd.

Nor is competition an unorganized
hit-and-miss affair. Bcsides tourna-
ments at intramural and conference
level, there is an annual national cham-
pionship known as the Intercollegiate
Tournament of the Association of Col-
lege Unions, or lTACU for short. in
1961 it drew seven thousand partici-
pants.

Fifty colleges now have bowling cen-
ters, but the number is bound to in-
crease. ln fact, just recently Lou Belli-
simo, a bowling coach, and mainspring
of the sport at Oregon, bumped into
former Webfoot John McKay, currently
coaching football at USC. Out of their
exchange came the feeling that the day
may well come when Oregon and USC
will be matched in bowling competition.

JAN S. PAUL, Bakersdeld, California.

RECREATION

.. AS WE GO TO PRESS

 

b A NATIONAL RECREATION RESEARCH
, lCENTER PROJECT has been initiated by
' the National Recreation Association.
The need for a national center of rec-
reation research has long been recog-
' nized by leaders in the field and the
, need has become increasingly apparent
in recent years. The center project in-
volves a special study being conducted
by the State University of Iowa for the
, Association under the direction of Dr.
' Betty van der Smissen. She is giving
part time to the project during the
' the spring semester and will devote full
time to it during the summer months.
. Dr. van der Smissen, assistant professor
in the department of physical education
for women at the university, holds both
a law degree and a doctorate in recrea-
tion.

> THE MEDIAN SALARY for recreation
executives placed by the National Rec-
reation Association in 1961 was 37.82].
This is a thirty percent increase over
the median salary for executive posi-

tions fillcd in 1960 and a fifty-three per-
cent increase over those filled in 1953.

} SUMMERTIME IS LITTERTIME. A Walt
Disney cartoon short, The Litterbug,
starring Donald Duck, was released last
year and is currently being Shown in
first-run theaters throughout the coun-
try. On July 1, 16MM prints will be
available for organizations. Like all
Disney films. prints are not sold out-
right but are leased for six years which
is the normal “life” of the film. For
further information, write to Keep
America Beautiful, 99 Park Avenue,

'New York 16.

RECENT AWARDS
AND APPOINTMENTS

} CARL J. BENKERT, vice-president of
Hillerich and Bradsby Company, Louis-
ville, Kentucky, was elected president
of the National Golf Foundation.

> THE THOMAS L. STOKES AWARDS for
articles on conservation were given to:
o Katharyn Dufi, assistant editor of
the Abilene, Texas, Reporter-News, for
“revealing the alarming extent of salt-
water pollution of fresh water supplies
resulting from oil exploration and pro-

JUNE, 1962

duction in the Texas oil fields.”

0 Helen Monberg of the Congressional
Quarterly and the Grand Junction, Col-
orado, Daily Sentinel for articles 011
power problems and natural resources.
0 Harry Farrell and Howard Watkins
of the San Jose, California, Mercury
and News, for a series on water short-
age in Santa Clara County.

0 Bill Becker of The New York Times
Los Angeles bureau for a series on wa-
ter and power problems in the West.
0 Bert Hanna of the Denver Post for
coverage of energy and other natural
resources.

0 Nat Caldwell of the Nashville Tea-
aessean for articles on the Tennessee
Valley Authority.

} NEW ADDRESS of the National Recre-
ation Association’s Midwest District

Oflice is Room 600, 1020 McGee Street,
Kansas City 6, Missouri.

> CONSERVATION DO.\°ATIO.\': The Amer-
ican Conservation Association h a s
given a $15,000 grant to the Conserva-
tion Library Center in Denver to help
finance a first-year program for devel-
oping a centralized library of materials
pertaining to the conservation of natu-
ral resources in America. The collec-
tion will be the first of its kind in the
United States and, probably, in the
world. The ACA also has pledged an

additional $10,000 to continue organ-
izational work for the special library

in 1963.

THINGS YOU SHOULD KNOW

D THE TENTH ANNUAL Industrial and In-
stitutional Landscaping Awards of the
American Association of Nurserymen
will be given for the landscaping and
beautification of institutions, industrial
plants, communities, downtown areas,
and so on. Entries must be received by
September 1, 1962. For a folder de-
scribing awards and entry procedures,
write to Curtis H. Porterfield, Execu-
tive Vice-President, American Associa-

tion of Nurserymen, 835 Southern
Building. W'ashingtou 5. DC.

> THE STRATEGIC AIR COMMAND has es-
tablished a Command Arts and Crafts
Achievement Award to be presented to
the winning SAC base in December. Jo-
seph D. Owens, SAC Command recrea-
tion director, hopes the award will en-
courage each base to provide adequate
facilities, tools, equipment, supplies,
and personnel necessary for a well-bal-
anced arts and crafts program.

> A SPECIAL COAST GUARD STUDY of ac-
cidents on navigable waterways of the
United States during the eighteen-
month period from July 1, 1960 to De-
ceInber 31, 1962 reveals that life pre-

MANIACS ON WHEELS

0. D. Sliipley, Pennsylvania’s Commissioner of Tra§ic Safety, expressed his
forceful views on drag strips in the Saturday Evening Post of May 12. 1962.

He said in part—

“A lot of nonsense has been published about the great value of ‘letting young
fellows get the speed bug safely out of their systems on drag strips,’ and about
the educational advantage of permitting teenagers to soup up ancient clunkers
until they can challenge any car on the road. You hear a lot. too, about the

great sport of letting anyone from five-year-olds to their grandfathers careen
around a paved lot in a tiny racer called a kart. . . . Check with a few police
and traffic-safety experts. Some years ago. when hot rod and drag races on
the open highways became a menace, a number of oflicials did go to the trouble

of setting up off-highway drag strips . .

. it was a happy thought. . . . Law-

enforcement ofiicials were reluctant to admit they’d been wrong, but the ma-
jority of them have now soured on the plan. and most of the ‘approved’ strips

have been closed down.”

 

283

servers Here not wont by the over-
whelming majority of those whe per-
ished in the water. This echoes similar
findings in a 1960 report. ( F or further
aspects of boating safety, see Page 291.)

P FEDERAL AID for fish and wildlife res-
toration, totaling $12,350,000, will be
made available to states on July 1. This
is a preliminary apportionment for the
fiscal year starting July 1. The balance
of aid funds for the year will be appor-
tioned in the fall. The comparable pre-
liminary apportionment for the current

fiscal year was $12.850,000.

? A TWO-AND-A-HALP YEAR STIva of
the impact of millions of visitors on the
wildlife and vegetation of our national
parks will be undertaken by the Con-
servation Foundation of New York un-
der a grant from the Old Dominion
Foundation. In 1961 the national parks
reported an attendance of 80,000,000.
The figures will certainly be higher in
1962, and higher still each succeeding
year. A decade ago no one conceived
that our national parks would be sub-
jected to this kind of pressure. (For
the impact of campers on our national
forests, see Page 297.)

b WITH A CHARTER REVISION looming
on the horizon, hOpe is revived in New
York City for a long overdue reorgan-
ization of recreation services, possibly
through the establishment of a depart-
ment of recreation and community serv-
ices to achieve effective coordination,
improved quality, and more equitable
distribution of facilities and services.

) WANT TO ATTRACT TOURISTS? Pro-
vide animals and culture. The New
York State Department of Commerce
finds that animals and culture share
equal honors as tOp drawing cards
among the attractions in the Empire
State. New York City’s zoological park.
popularly known as the “Bronx Zoo,”
was visited by 2,500,000 people last
year. The Metropolitan Museum of Art
and American Museum of Natural His-
tory, both in New York City, each re-
ported slightly over two million visitors.

} FREE REPRINTS available from Re-
sources for the Future. Inc.. 1775 Mas-
sachusetts Avenue, N.W., Washington
6, D.C., now include Natural Resources
Projections and their Contribution to
Technological Planning, and Reason in
Water Management.

COURSES, CAMPS
AND WORKSHOPS

} THE SECOND ANNUAL SEMINAR on
“The Arts, Education, and Modern
Life,” will be held August 19 to Sep-
tember 1 at the Stoekbridge School, In-

284

terlaken, Massachusetts. A full [\10-
week prOgram is planned, with time for
swimming, music and leisure-time ac-
tivities in addition to lectures and work-
shOps. Discussions include sessions on
art and education, painting, eurythmy,
bamboo recorder making, stained glass,
and architecture. For further informa-
tion, write to Rudolf Steiner Exhibi-
tions, 25 Pershing Road, Englewood,
New Jersey.

> THE 17TH GEORGIA YOUTH WORK-
SHOP will convene on the campus of
South Georgia College in Douglas July
30-August 3. Sponsored by the Georgia
Recreation Society, the worksh0p is the
oldest such event for young people in
the United States, and similar work-
shops now being held throughout the
country have been patterned after it.
South Georgia College and the city of
Douglas Parks and Recreation Depart-
ment will host the five-day event. Dr.
Janet Mac Lean, assistant professor of
recreation at Indiana University, will
head the workshop faculty.

) THE THIRD OHIO WORKSHOP on
School Camping and Outdoor Educa-
tion will be held June 17 to July 21 at
the Antioch Outdoor Education Center
and School Camp in Yellow Springs. It
is cosponsored by Antioch College and
Miami University. For information
write to Jean R. Sanford, Director, An-
tioch Outdoor Education Center, Yel-
low Springs, Ohio.

} DANCES AND MUSIC of America and
England will be covered in a series of
weeklong sessions at Pinewoods Camp,
Buzzards Bay, Massachusetts. The
workshops, sponsored by the Country
Dance Society of America, include
Chamber Music Week, August 5-12;
First Dance Week, August 12-19:
Second Dance Week, August 19-26; and
Folk Music Week, August 26-Septem-
ber 2. For further details, write to the
society at 55 Christopher Street, New
York 14.

) WORKSHOPS FOR ARCHERY instructors
will be held in Michigan, Vermont, and
Maryland. These include the Michigan
Archery Workshop to be held at Twin
Springs Camp. Berrien Springs, June
18-21; Teela-Wooket WorkshOp, Rox-
bury, Vermont. June 18-22; Teela-
Wooket Fall Workshop, August 29-
September 2. The Maryland workshop
will be held in June. date to be an-
nounced. For information about any of
these workshops. write to Julian W.

Smith. 403 College of Education. Mich-
igan State University. East Lansing.

) MORE THAN Two THOUSAND families
are expected at the national convention
of the National Campers and Hikers

Association at Indian Falls Lake near
Batavia, New York, July 7-14. For fur-
ther information, write the association
at Box 452, Orange, New Jersey.

> AN UNUSUAL WEEKEND symposium,
“The Uncertain Quest: The Teen -Ager’s
World,” will be presented at the Uni-
versity of California Medical Center in
San Francisco, June 16-17. It will ex-
plore the roles of study, work, and ath-
letics in teenage society. Sessions in-
clude: “The Need for Acceptance,”
“Accepting and Resisting Activity,”
“Different Cultures, Different Genera-
tions,” and “Expression of Creativity.”

F GEORGE WILLIAMS COLLEGE, Chi-
cago, will inaugurate a graduate pro-
gram in camping and outdoor educa-
tion this fall. The program will lead
toward a Master of Science degree.
One-third of the new master’s program
will be related to group work, guidance
and counseling, group dynamics, and
research. Another third will be related
to administration of outdoor educatioh
and camping programs. The final third
will be a nature-recreation education
sequence, designed specifically for use
in informal education programing.
Candid-ates for degrees will be required
to complete field work requirements in
museums, forest preserves, and com-
munity centers. This field work will in-
volve group leadership, nature-recrea-
tion education, camp leadership, and
school camping programs.

> FOURTEEN EXPEDITIONS into wilder-
ness areas of the West will be con-ducted
this summer by the American Forestry
Association of Washington, DC. Ad-
venturers from all OVBI‘ the United
States will meet at rallying points iii
Utah, Montana, Colorado, Wyoming,
California, and New Mcxico to mk out
on horseback into little-known but va's't
expanses of wild, roadless country. Two
parties will take to canoes. For further
information, write to the association at

919 17th Street, N.W., Washirqton,
D.C.

) AUDUBON CAMPS for teachers, youth
leaders, and all adults interested in the
world of nature will he held in June,
July and August in California, Conneet-
icut, Maine, and Wisconsin. For infor-
mation about the California camp in
the Sierra Nevadas (Sugar Bowl Lodge,
a resort near Donner Pass and Lake Ta-
hoe), write to Auduhon Camp of Cal-
ifornia, 1000 North Durfce Avenuc. 
Monte, California. For the camps ncar
Greenwich, ConnectictTt, the Todd Wild-
life Sanctuary, an island off the coast of
Maine, and the camp near Sarona, Wis-

consin. write to Auduhon Camps. 113-0
Fifth Avenue, New York 28.

RECREATION

RE CREATION: AN EVER - WIDENIN G SPHERE

Leaders from many fields to address 44th National Recreation Congress

HE EVER-WIDENING sphere of recreation is well exem-
plified by four of the topnotch leaders who will ad-
dress the 44th National Recreation Congress in Phil-

adelphia September 30-October 5. They represent the fields
of anthr0pology, public administration, physical rehabilita-
tion, and forest economics.

Dr. Luther Halsey Gulick, chairman
of the board of the Institute of Public
Administration in New York, vice-pres-
ident of the National Recreation Asso-
ciation, and generally regarded as “the
dean of American public administra-
tion,” will address the Congress Octo-
ber 1 on “The Challenge of Recreation.”
This will be part of a day-in-depth program on “The Recre-
ation Participant.”

Dr. Gulick was Eaton Professor of Municipal Science and
Administration at Columbia University from 1931 to 1942.
Both before and after this assignment, he served as consult-
ant to various government and research agencies in the
United States and abroad and has lectured at many univer-
sities and congresses. From 1954 to 1956, Dr. Gulick was
city administrator of New York City. He is the author of
The Metropolitan Problem and American Ideas just pub-

lished by Alfred Knopf. His other numerous works include

Administrative Reflections from World War II (1951) ,
Modern Management for the City of New York (1953), and
Metro: Changing Problems and Lines of Attack (1957) .

 

Professor Ethel J. Alpenfels of the
New York University School of Educa-

tion, a nationally recognized authority
on anthropology and social behavior,
will address the Congress October 1 on
“Man—His Nature as an Individual
Today.” This is also part of the day-in-
depth program. Dr. Alpenfels was
named “Teacher' of the Year” by the American Women’s
Association in 1956. She has done research among the Mo-
doc Indians under a Rockefeller Foundation grant and has
made a study of the life of the Haida Indians of Queen Char-
lotte Island, British Columbia. She is the author of books
used extensively by church-study groups. She writes fre-
quently for anthrOpological journals, and her monograph
The Human Hand has received world-wide circulation. She
edited the one million words on anthropology for the En-
cyclopedia Britannica of 1944-45; in 1957 she wrote the

 

JUNE, 1962 .

anthrOpology section for Junior Britannica; and she has
contributed to many scientific and professional journals.

Dr. Howard A. Rusk is the director
of the Institute of Physical Medicine
and Rehabilitation at the New York
University Medical Center, and is asso-
ciate editor of The New York Times. He
will address the Congress October 2 on
the significance of hospital recreation to
the community. During World War II,
as a colonel in the Medical Corps of the Army Air Force,
Dr. Rusk originated and directed the AAF convalescent-
rehabilitation training program for which he was awarded
the Distinguished Service Medal.

In addition to his numerous contributions to professional
journals and books, encyclopedias, and general periodicals,
he is co-author with Eugene J. Taylor of New Hope for the
Handicapped (1949) and Living with a Disability (1953),
co-author with Drs. Paul Dudley White, Philip R. Lee, and
Bryan Williams of Rehabilitation of the Cardiovascular Pa-
tient (1957) and Cardiovascular Rehabilitation (1957) ;

and senior author with thirty-four colleagues of Rehabilita-

tion Medicine (1958).

 

Dr. Edward C. Crafts, director of the
recently created federal Bureau of Out-
door Recreation, will address the clos-
ing general session of the Congress Oc-
tober 4 on the s00pe and significance of
this new agency. A forester with twenty
years of federal service, he began his
career in forest and range research in
California. During World War II, he moved to Washington
to become coordinator of Forest Service projects in timber
requirements and supplies for the War Production Board,
Office of Price Administration, and other defense agencies.
Later he became director of forest economics research ac-
tivities of the Forest Service.

In 1950, he was appointed assistant chief of the Forest
Service in charge of long-range program development, legis-
lation, and Congressional relations.

Dr. Crafts is author of a number of articles, research and
technical notes. He directed the five-year review of timber
resources in the United States published in 1958 as Timber
Resources for America’s Future. He received the Distin-
Service Award of the Department of Agriculture in 1960.

 

285

1962 NATIONAL CONGRESS CITY

 

 

 

TODA Y’S PHILADELPHIA

The story of an exciting
Twentieth Century renaissance

and a new city within a city

The bold and visionary plans for restoration or

renewal of the city’s business and historic areas have
made it a focal point for architects, city planners, and urban
developers all over America. The eyes of business and in-
dustrial America are upon that section of mid-town Phila-
delphia now known as Penn Center. It forms, with the
historical development and restoration of the Independence
Hall area, the key to Philadelphia’s future as well as
evidence of its past.

Until April 27, 1952, when the last train ran from Broad
Street Station, the Penn Center area was dominated by the
redstone station building and the “Chinese Wall,” which
carried the Pennsylvania Railroad tracks to the banks of
the Schuylkill River and beyond. For two generations the
area had become an increasing eyesore to civic-minded
Philadelphians.

When the modern 30th Street Station was erected and
enlightened leaders of the Pennsylvania Railroad de-
termined to raze the old Broad Street station, it was also
decided in the railroad’s exccutive ofiices that the land
should be part of a unified development. The City Planning
Commission, which had long hoped for such a reality,
worked closely with the railroad personnel to keep land
speculators at bay.

Never before in the history of a modern American me-
tropolis had such an area become available for creating
a city-within-a-city. The ribbon of cleared land stretched
from City Hall, the radial hub of Philadelphia city life,
west to the Schuylkill .River. The city responded to the
challenge and now one of the most dramatic urban develop-

PHILADELPHIA is a twentieth-century renaissance city.

ments in the nation is rising in the shadow of midtown
Philadelphia. Progressive city planning has come of age
in Philadelphia at an estimated cost of $150,000,000.

A wide boulevard, reminiscent of those broad European
thoroughfares, now stretches to the river. A new bridge
connects it to the railroad’s magnificent station at 30th
Street. And, bordering this expanse of Philadelphia Boule-
vard and the equally important Market Street, a new city,
facing Penn Center, is rising. The gauntlet has been cast
down and local business firms have shown their faith and

286

 

courage by planning new structures on the periphery of
Penn Center. A new city of functional architecture has

sprung to lifc in the heart of Philadelphia.

NUMBER 3 Penn Center, a twenty-story glass and stecl
office building opened the city’s eyes to the fact that

Penn Center was a reality and not just an idea on the
drawing board. Since the opening of Number 3, the Trans-
portation Center, a city-block square, has reached comple-
tion. This houses the center city offices of the Pcn11sylvania
Railroad and the new Greyhound Bus Terminal. Under-
ground ramps carry the buscs from the crowded city streets
to the spacious unloading zones below. A thousand-car
garage, restaurant, and waiting room facilities and an
eightcen-story ofiice building are part of the entity that is
now the Transportation Center.

Facing the terminal is the splendid new twcnty-one-story
Sheraton Hotcl, headquarters for the 44th National Recre-
ation, Congress, which contains a thousand rooms and
suites and a thousand-car garage. The new multi-million-
dollar hostelry houses the city’s largest and newest ball-
room and banqueting and dining facilities beyond thc staid
Philadelphian’s fondest dreams. Plans arc being dcveloped
for additional buildings to he erected 011 the site during
the next several years. Number 2, now finished, harmonizes
completely with Number 3 and with other structures already
built or planned for the center.

The Penn Center development is Philadelphia’s answer
to New York’s Radio City. Tree-dotted esplanades run he-
tween those buildings already erected, giving thc walker

RECREATION

 

‘ .1!

Philadelphia combines a historic past with an ultra-modern
future. Left, the Hospitality Center of the Philadelphia
Convention and Visitors Bureau at 16th and Pennsylvania
Boulevard, serves as a reception and information center.
Above, the Betsy Ross House, birthplace of the first Amer-
ican flag. Right, the Number 1 urban redevelopment project
in the heart of the center city replaces a railroad station
and the “Chinese Wall” of train tracks bisecting the city.

in this locale the feeling of a promenade or of the old
Regency parade. Fine examples of contemporary sculpture
interestingly accent the open area and a large sunken
skating rink gives a sophisticated flavor to the scene.

Below the surface of the street a concourse is being
readied. This arcade, housing shops, restaurants, and an
equally spacious walking area, is expected to accommodate
between thirty thousand and fifty thousand people a day.
The railroad also has installed foundations capable of sup-
porting two «twenty-story buildings above this area. A
circular, underground ramp will speed trucks to strategi-
cally located unloading docks. Entrances from the shopping
concourse connect Suburban Station, the Sheraton Hotel,
the Transportation Center, and all other buildings in Penn
Center proper.

Open wells with staircases descending to the landscaped
courts on the lower level are a feature of the plaza. Air
and sunlight find their way to the maze of shops below
and the effect above ground is that of a Continental square
with an airy, spacious vitality all its own. Here visitors
and Philadelphians alike find the dream has become a
reality and a glistening world of steel, glass and concrete
has risen to become a symbol of the Philadelphia of to«
morrow.

IN THE HEART of old Philadelphia, more than elsewhere
in America, is the greatest concentration of physical
reminders of the American Revolution and the establish-
ment of the Unitcd States as a free nation. Familiar to

JUNE, 1962

 

everyone are the three venerable buildings on Independence
Square—Independence Hall, Congress Hall, and the Su-
preme Court Building—and Carpenters’ Hall, but there
are other reminders of our national beginnings: the First
Bank of the United States, the BishOp White House, the
Dilworth-Todd-Moylan House, and the sites of City Tavern
and Franklin’s home. I

Urban blight unfortunately transformed this once at-
tractive neighborhood of America’s most historic mile into
a jungle of fire-trap buildings, parking lots, and rundown
commercial establishments. To revive the neighborhood
and, above all, to rescue the irreplaceable shrines of our
past, a group of distinguished civic leaders, headed by
Judge Edwin 0. Lewis, formed the Independence Hall
Association in 1942. Through tireless effort this group
stimulated the city, state, and the federal governments into
action, resulting in two major projects: the Independence
Mall and Independence National Historical Park. The mall
project is sponsored jointly by the city and state; the park
project is under the direction of the National Park Service.
Together they form one of the most important historical
projects in the United States and to complete the projects
within the next two years will cost in excess of $20,000,000.

These projects involved nothing less than the demolition
of all non-historic buildings in an area approximately seven
city blocks and the landscaping of the resulting space. In
the federal area, morcover, the National Park Service will
substantially restore all historic buildings and features to
their appearance in the 1774-1800 period, and reconstruct

287

Ctr Tami"; and New Hall. The latter has been completed
a ad is :: inn administered in cooperation with the Marine
t . rps 1: a memorial museum. Historic Library Hall has
l M“ w mtrut ted and is being used by the American Phi-
l '.-r' ya real Society to house its historic library collections.

9.) tending eastward from Independence Square lies the
federal “Park’ project, embracing about four city blocks.
Designated by Act of Congress in 1948 as the Independence
National Historical Park Project, the development of this
area is well under way. In excess of one hundred buildings
have been cleared in this area to deve10p the park.

Comprising the principal area are the three blocks east
of Independence Square. Subsidiary'areas lie on either
side, the site of Franklin’s home and a strip of ground
adjoining Christ Church to the north, and a section bound-
ing several historic churches and features to the south. In
the principal area lies Carpenters’ Hall, scene of the meeting
of the First Continental Congress in 1774. In this area
stood. also, America’s foremost hostel, the City Tavern,
where in 1775 Paul Revere arrived with the news of the
closing of Boston port by the British, and where delegates
to the First Continental Congress first gathered. Nearby
still stands the imposing first Bank of the United States
built in 1795 to house the Federal Bank conceived by

Alexander Hamilton.

The court which marks the site of Benjamin Franklin’s
home, where the sage died in 1790, will be deve10ped as
a memorial area. Christ Church, a short distance away,
where George Washington, Robert Morris, and Benjamin

RECRETION UP THE CREEK

 

An organized recreation program deveZOped stroke by stroke.

 

Franklin worshipped, will be closely associated with the
park. In its churchyard lie seven signers of the Declaration
of Independence.

Most important by far is the Independence Hall group
of buildings transferred to the National Park Service by
the city in 1951 for administration, restoration, and in-
terpretation. The Assembly Room of Independence Hall
is truly the birthplace of our nation, and the immortal
Declaration of Independence adopted in this room has as
much meaning for us today as it did in 1776. The room
has been restored and substantially refurnished by the
National Park Service (thanks to the generous contribu-
tion of funds by the General Federation of Women’s Clubs)
marking the first step in the restoration and refurnishing
of the entire building—and eventually of all the buildings
on the square.

Plans for the Independence National Historical Park
also include adequate public facilities, such as a parking
area and visitor center to accommodate the more than a
million and a half visitors annually. The interpretive
program will include museums, auditorioums for film and
other presentations, special events, literature, markers,
self-guiding tour routes, as well as guides to lead visitors
along the streets and paths from the reconstructed City
Tavern, where the story of American independence began,
to Carpenters’ Hall, where the first steps toward inde-
pendence were taken, to Independence Hall, where the die
was cast. Thus, in the completed historical park the visitor
will gain a feeling of familiarity with the events com-
memorated and derive spiritual and patriotic inspiration. #

He had a goal in mind: that every
youngster in the area learn to swim.
As instructor, he now has a right to

beam with pride because he is well on
the way to achieving his goal.

The swimming program was the first
glimpse the community had of what a
good thing organized recreation could
be. After the swimming classes, a teen-
age night was held once a week (with
an attendance of over seventy), and an
adult night weekly. The community
baseball league hegun last year gives
youngsters of varying ages a chance to
play. Later, the town hopes to affiliate

ALLADEGA SPRINGS, Alabama,
T never had a recreation program

until a youngster drowned and
local coach vowed not only to put on a
swimming program but introduce other
activities as well. Last summer the
town went in for recreation in a big
splash. Organized recreation made its
debut in the town when Winford Alford,
coach of Fayetteville School, realized
that practically none of the children in

the area could swim. He consulted

288

Charles Pitts, mayor of Talladega
Springs, and, between them, they out-
lined the shape of recreation to come.
There wasn’t a hig swimming pool in
the vicinity, but there was a creek.
Coach Alford took a Red Cross swim-
ming course, graduated with honors,
and started rounding up his swimming
class. Over ninety persons, represent-
ing families from the five surrounding
communities, turned out for the tri-
weekly classes in this wooded stream.

with Little League when enough young-
sters reach the pr0per age.

Practically all ahle adults in the area
worked on the program during the sum-
mer months in a community chort. The
way in which the program was organ-
ized was a larger factor in its success.
The community, about eight miles wide
hy nearly ten miles long, was divided
into five areas according to population

Continued on Page 322

RECREATION

Philadelphia’s

Garden Blocks and

4-H Clubs

They bring more than beauty to a neighborhood . . .

Louise Bush-Brown

HILADELPHIA’S Garden Block Pro-
gram has proved such a unique
and vital force in neighborhood
conservation and has had such an im-
pact upon the lives of people that it has
received wide recognition. Visitors
have come to Philadelphia from many
sections of the United States and from
several foreign countries to see and
learn about this program initiated by
the Neighborhood Garden Association.
Similar projects have been started in
Wilmington, Washington, D.C., Boston,
and a number of other cities.

The Neighborhood Garden Associa-
tion of Philadelphia was founded in
1953, its purpose being to encourage
and foster an interest in gardening and
. flowers in the blighted areas of the city
and to awaken a sense of civic pride
and fellowship through the organiza-
tion of constructive garden projects for
adult and youth groups. The work of
the association has been carried on as
a cooperative endeavor by the settle-
ment houses, the garden clubs, other
sponsoring groups, and the residents
on the blocks.

From a modest beginning in the
spring of 1953 with the development of
seven pilot garden blocks, each year
has brought the association new Oppor-
tunities for service, and its areas of en-
deavor and its influence are being con-
stantly extended. At the close of 1961
the records showed the following ac-
complishments.

MRS. BUSH-BROWN is president of the
Neighborhood Garden Association of
Philadelphia.

JUNE, 1962

° 301 Garden Blocks

° 15 Vacant Lot Gardens

° 12 Play Areas on Vacant Lots

° 122 4-H Club Individual Project
Gardens

° 1200 Dooryard Gardens in Low-
rent Housing Projects.

A TYPICAL GARDEN BLOCK, during its
two years of sponsorship, is trans-
formed from a shabby, litter-strewn
street into a block in which the resi-
dents may take very justifiable pride.
There are flower boxes at the windows,
gay with petunias and geraniums, and
in the little brick bays against the house
climbing roses or other flowers have
been planted. Trash-filled vacant lots
have been cleared and made into flower
gardens or, in some cases, into totlots
for younger children. House fronts
have been painted and the street and
sidewalks are kept clean and free of
litter.

Equally important as the change in
the appearance of the block is the
change in the attitude of the people
living there. The window boxes and
flower bays on these garden blocks have
offered much more than beauty for the
eye to enjoy; they have created a new
vision for the mind to grasp; they have
been as a torch to the spirit, kindling
in the hearts of the people a striving
for a better way of life. Where nothing
but apathy had existed before, neigh-
bors, under the guidance of NGA, have
learned to work together to improve
their community; teenagers have
learned to use their energies construc-
tively instead of destructively; and

 

adult and youth leaders have emerged

where no opportunities for leadership
had existed before.

ARDEN BLOCKS are pleasant places
G upon which to live, they are happy
places for children to grow up, they
are blocks where neighborliness and
goodwill dwell. They are blocks where
the residents not only have a feeling
of dignity and pride, but where they
also acquire a growing awareness of
their responsibilities as citizens in a
wider community. The flowers touch
the hearts of all, from the very young
to the very old, as is evidenced by the
little girl who wrote. “To me they were
the most beautiful flowers in the world
because I was part of them being
there.” An aged grandmother sitting
on her doorstep on planting day re-
marked, “It gives a lift to the heart just
to look at it.”

In developing the garden blocks
every effort is made to have as much
initiative as possible come from the
people themselves and certain obliga-
tions that they must meet. Application
must be made through the settlement
house or other welfare agency serving
the area. Exceptions are made in areas
where no such agency exists. There
must be a good block leader, who is
usually the person who takes the initia-
tive in making the application, and
there must be a high percentage of par-
ticipation within the block. Each per-
son must pay for the lumber for his
own box, and, whenever possible, the
boxes must be made by the men and

289

boys who live on the block concerned.

After the block has been organized,
the NCA makes arrangements for its
sponsorship by a garden club or some
other participating group. On a desig-
nated day, known as Planting Day, the
flowers, provided by the sponsors, are
brought in and the people on the block
are shown how to plant their window
boxes and are given instructions for
their care. At the annual dinner in the
autumn, awards of merit are presented
to blocks which have maintained a
high standard of excellence. After two
years of sponsorship, the block becomes
an independent block and from that
time on it is responsible for the pur-
chase of its own flowers. Independent
blocks have the privilege of ordering
their plants through the association at
wholesale rates. They also have repre-
sentation at the annual dinner and are
eligible for awards.

Through the years there have been
an increasing number of requests to
work with youth groups and, in the au-
tumn of 1960, the NCA suggested to
the State Extension Service in Philadel-
phia that it would be glad to cooperate
in organizing some horticultural 4-H
clubs. It has been extremely difficult to
organize urban 4-H clubs because of
the lack of local leadership and, as ev-
eryone familiar with 4-H club work
knows, 4-H clubs are very dependent
upon good, local adult leaders. How-
ever, on the association’s garden blocks
there were many potentially fine adult
leaders and, in cooperation with the Ex-
tension Service, a pilot 4-H club was
organized in November, 1960. This
Oasis Green Thumb 4-H Club proved

so successful that fourteen additional

clubs were organized during 1961, with
a total membership of 220 boys and
girls, ranging in age from ten to nine-
teen. Fifteen new clubs are being or-
ganized in the Spring of 1962.

Adult leaders’ workshOps are held
once a month throughout the year and
are of inestimable value. At these meet-
ings the program for the coming month
is discussed, demonstrations are given
on such things as seed sowing, the mak-
ing of cuttings, and planting dish gar-
dens, and special events are planned.

The project undertaken by all the
clubs organized in the Spring of 1961
was Unit 1 in the 4-H “Plan and Plant

for Beauty Series,” being a garden of

 

annual flowers, starting with plants.
Each club garden was planned as a
whole, each member having his or her
own section to plant and care for. The
pilot Oasis Green Thumb 4-H Club un-
dertook as a community project the
planting and maintenance of a 150-foot
flower border in City Hall courtyard,
for which'it received a citation. Each
member of the club had a ten-foot sec-
tion of the border to plant and care for.

 

In August, a 4-H “round-up” was
held, being a bus trip which made it
possible for the members to visit each
other’s gardens and enjoy a jolly pic-
nic together. A prize essay contest was
also conducted, the awards being made
at the annual dinner. In September all
the individual gardens were judged,
and on Achievement Night, which is a
very important event in the life of any
4-H club member, certificates were pre-
sented for the completion of the proj-
ect, and ribbons were awarded for ex-
cellence. The incredible success of the
4-H club gardens deve10ped on vacant
lots in widely scattered sections of the
city, and the eagerness and enthusiasm
of the members are convincing evi-
dence of the tremendous potentials of
horticultural 4-H clubs for city boys
and girls.

Winter projects included dish gar-
dens, house plants, forcing bulbs for
indoor bloom, and Christmas work-
sh0ps. The members of the pilot club
took orders for dish gardens for Christ-
mas and Valentine’s Day and were very
successful in this initial venture. Other
clubs plan to do the same next year in
their neighborhoods.

In the spring of 1962 a new program
was set up, known as the 4-H Neighbor-
hood lmprovemeut Program. This pro-
gram is cosponsored by the NCA and
the Agricultural Extension Service of
the Pennsylvania State University un-
der a grant of the Sears-Roebuck Foun-
dation. Through this program a club
will be eligible for a nominal grant to
be used in carrying out its own neigh-
borhood improvement project. This is
the first program of its kind in this

country. :11:

Conservation Bravos!

0 The Wisconsin Resources Develop-
ment Act, which put into action a one-
cent tax on cigarettes, amassed over

$417,000 in the flI‘SI six weeks after the
tax went into effect on February 1. This

is far in advance of the anticipated
amount and will enable accelerated pur-

chase of open space, water rights, wild-
life refuges, and highway easements for
picnic spots and rest stops. Thirty-six
miles of water frontage have already

290

been purchased, and 173 land parcels
and miles of stream and lake easements
have been leased for later development.
Wisconsin’s slogan is “Purchase now,
develop later.”

a In the state of Washington, action is
being taken to acquire additional beach
and shoreline arcas. An 821/3-acre tract
of land on Orcas Island was set aside as
a public recreation area. The land, in—
cluding about a half mile of water front-

age, is being turned over to the state
Parks and Recreation Commission.

0 Sixty-two of Iowa’s ninety-nine coun-
ties have organized conservation boards
and have acquired more than eleven
thousand acres of locally hnanced
county parks and recreation areas. This
program, authorized by legislation in
1955, is headed by Wilbur Rush, for-
mer director of the Iowa State Conser-
vation Commission.

RECREATION

SAFETY FIRST -——- FORE and AFT

summer in everything from a kayak to a ketch, but

mostly in motorboats. Park and recreation depart-
ments offering family boating courses or sponsoring family
boating clubs should see that safety rules for both ashore
and afloat are prominently posted, distributed widely, and
stressed constantly. Departments administering marinas
should sec that rules are prominently displayed—and
obeyed.

The National Fire Protection Association offers remind-

ers which, heeded now, may later save boats—-and even
lives.
0 Observe a strict “No Smoking” rule and extinguish all
open flames when refueling. Wipe up any spills from fuel-
ing operation immediately. Portable fuel tanks used with
outboards should be removed from the boat for filling.

MILLIONS OF AMERICANS will take to the open water this

 

0 Use only approved stoves labelled for marine use. Never
use gasoline fueled stoves aboard ship.

0 Never take portable heaters of any type on board.

0 Use your nose before you turn on the ignition switch
to start engine. Ventilate the engine compartment and
check for gasoline vapors before you try a start.

0 Because of the fire and explosion hazards from leaking
fuel in boats, it is essential that the materials used, the
design, the construction and the installation of all parts of
the fuel system conform to the highest standards. NFPA
Standard No. 302 contains detailed recommendations to
follow. (Available at $.50 a copy from, the NFPA, 60
Batterymarch Street, Boston 10, Massachusetts.)

0‘ A fire protection must for any motorboat over sixteen
feet is a bucket with lanyard attached. Smaller motor craft
should follow suit.

0 Every motorboat should havc at least one (larger boats,
several) approve_d extinquisher designed for use on flam-
mable liquid (Class B) fires.

Preparing boats for the summer fun ahead also involves
certain fire risks, warns the NFPA, whether the craft is
berthed in backyard, garage, or in the boatyard. The most
common fire dangers occur during paint removal, painting
and finishing, and welding or cutting. NFPA stresses the
following pointers to help pleasure boaters come through
unscorched:

0 Good housekeeping is the first line of fire defense here
as anywhere. So don’t let oily rags accumulate and remove

JUNE, 1962

sawdust and wood shavings promptly to avoid trouble.

0 For getting off the old paint, scraping, hand and ma-
chine sanding, wire brushing, and use of nonflammable re-
movers are safest. If flammable liquids must be used, work
should be done to the open air.

0 While painting boat interiors or working in an enclosed
area, provide good ventilation, do not operate any spark-
producing equipment, or allow any open flames, and observe
strict “No Smoking” rule.

0 Get professional help for all welding, brazing, solder-
ing, or cutting operations and insist on the highest pro-
fessional standards for safety during such work.

Further caution for boat owners comes from the Uni-
versity of Rochester Department of Pharmacology. The
department, a nationally known center for research on
poisons, notes that boating hobbyists are apt to expose
themselves to serious health hazards, especially in the spring
when they ready their craft for the season. Some tips from
the University of Rochester group to reduce such hazards:
0 Never use a blow torch to burn old paint. This can
result in vaporizing mercury or arsenic compounds in the
paint—with considerable discomfort (or, perhaps, even
fatal poisoning) for you.

0 Handle turpentine with care—it is not only flammable
but toxic as well. Prolonged exposure to “turp” has been
known to produce a serious kidney ailment. Even mild
exposure can cause dizziness and other accident-predis-
posing symptoms.

0 In tuning up outboard motor indoors, the room should
be well ventilated to avoid exposure to carbon monoxide.
Even when it does not have an immediately apparent effect,
inhaling carbon monoxide can produce accident-causing
dizziness or blurred vision afterwards. Some puzzling ac-
cidents in which skilled boatsmen have inexplicably fallen
out of boats and drowned are believed to have been caused
by dizziness due to previous carbon monoxide exposure.

0 In removing motor sludge, be careful of solvents which
contain naphtha or naphtha derivatives. When vaporized,
these can produce symptoms similar to acute alcoholism.
Prolonged heavy exposure can cause serious internal injury.
0 When using a plastic coating in boat building or repair,
note whether the coating contains “methyl ethyl ketone
peroxide,” a hardener. In addition to being sold as cata-
lysts, products containing this substance are sometimes
supplied in home boat-building kits. Although the resins
and the fiberglass components of such products are con-
sidered nontoxic, “MEK” should be handled with care.
It can produce chemical burns through contact with the
skin, is poisonous if swallowed, and is flammable as well!
0 If boating activities involve any toxic materials, it is
a good idea to keep the workroom well-ventilated, to wear
rubber gloves while working, and to clean utensils and
work areas when finished. And, of course, keep toxic sub-
stances tightly closed when not in use and store them where
small fry cannot reach them. #

291

RECREATION
DEMANDS ON
PUBLIC WATER
SUPPLIES

The demand for water recreation

necessitates a reappraisal of legislation

Charles H. W. Foster
 A NUMBER or TRENDS contribute to

the growing demand of the public
for water recreation. Total population
growth is an obvious factor, but equally
important has been the movement away
from urban centers to the suburbs,
thereby exposing more people to the at-
tractions of outdoor pursuits. A rising
standard of living has produced a shorter work week,
higher per capita income, and a greater proportion of in-
come available for recreation activities. Personal prefer-
ences have also swung noticeably to the outdoors and the
boom in boating and camping nationally are examples of
this trend.

Among all the factors responsible for an explosive inter-
est in outdoor recreation, none can match the astonishing
mobility of the American people. Thanks to an expanding
system of new highways, and the automotive convenience
now standard in the American home, outdoor recreation
is within reach of any family today. The demand for water
recreation necessitates a realistic reappraisal of the rec-
reation use of water supply reservoir and other water areas.

Let’s use Massachusetts as an example. Water must
certainly be classified as one of the region’s most abundant
assets. With 1,215 great ponds, eleven water bodies over
one thousand acres in size, 4,230 miles of river and stream,
and some three per cent of its land area in surface water,
Massachusetts is considerably more fortunate than the

  

contribute still further to what would appear to be an area
of plenty.

Yet the future promises to hold its share of troubles.

K

MR. FOSTER is commissioner of the Massachusetts Depart-
ment of Natural Resources. This material is adapted from

a paper presented at a meeting of the New England Water
Works Association last year.

292

According to a report prepared in 1957 by the Legislative
Research Bureau, the state must face a projected rise in
population of nearly seventeen per cent by the year 1970,
and the per capita consumption of water in Massachusetts
is expected to jump from the present 250 GPD to an esti-
mated 350 CPD by the turn of the century. In short,
Massachusetts cities and towns must take steps now to meet
an anticipated forty-sixty percent increase in total water
use by the year 2000.

The most recent analysis of the state’s recreation re-
sources also took place in 1957 with the filing of legislative
recommendations by the Department of Natural Resources
based upon a comprehensive study by outside consulting
engineers. The report itemized a number of trends con-
tributing to the growing needs of the public for outdoor
recreation, pointing out that Massachusetts is now within
a day’s drive of fifty million people!

The answer seemed to be an accelerated program of
acquisition and development at the state level to provide
needed public recreation facilities. Also stressed was the
need for multiple use of all existing areas in order to meet
thesedemands within the limited framework of a small and
already densely populated state.

In Massachusetts, Chapter III of the General Laws states
categorically that bathing shall not be permitted in sources
of water used for domestic water supply purposes. Relative
to other types of recreation usage, the Department of
Public Health, by rule and regulation, delegates its au-
thority to local boards of water commissioners who are
legally responsible for the safety of their water supplies.

Thus, a general law, placed on the statute books in 1884
at a time when few sources of supply were treated, still
offers broad prohibitions when all but six surface sources

of supply in the state now receive some form of treatment
prior to consumption.

Of the state’s sixty-one natural ponds used as watcr
supply sources listed in the 1957 report, half are closed
entirely to any form of recreation use. The record of
artificially constructed reservoirs is even more severe, with
97 out of 150 closed entirely to recreation. Even where
filtration is provided, half of the ponds or reservoirs are
still restricted from any usage for recreation purposes.

Even where some forms of recreation are pcrmitted, the
record is, to say the least, arbitrary. Local regulations
range from no use to full use; all uses of the watershed
to none at all. Recreation may be permitted year round,
restricted to a season, confined to a two-week period each
year, or in one instance limited to Saturdays only. A com-
mon practice is to restrict use to residents only, to require
a written permit, and, in a few instances, the privilege of
fishing is reduced to the level of political patronage.

There are cases where water from a river system heavily
used for recreation purposes bccomes inviolable when im-

policy prevents the use of ponds within a watershed for
bathing despite the fact that the source cannot be used by

law for water supply purposes during the summer months.
Perhaps the ultimate occurs in the case of an interstate

l? crop urmn

water body where the portion in one state can be used for
bathing, but the other half cannot!

In Massachusetts, only ten percent of the natural ponds
over ten acres in size are reserved for water supply pur-
poses and since 1940 not a single great pond has been
taken by any municipality for such purposes. Yet, by
virtue of current restriction, municipalities have removed
some twenty—six percent of the state’s natural surface water
(ponds) from recreation usage. In the case of one county
(Essex) this total reaches fifty-eight percent.

Recreation administrators know that pond and lake
fishing can offer one of the most efficient types of recre-
atiori opportunity. Small ponds in urban areas, for example,

can support one thousand hours of fishing per acre per
year, far in excess of their rural counterparts. Comet Pond
in Hubbardston, some sixty-five miles from the Boston
area, produced two hundred to three hundred hours of
fishing per acre in 1960. Quabbin Reservoir recorded over

 

n... ., .r—Y ~- ., -~ .> " v' I; v .. - .,.-,--a-  ,r

oaters on Lake Wallenpaupak in the Pennsylvania Poconos.
The lake was developed by the Pennsylvania Power and Light
Company for the purpose of generating hydroelectric power.

ninety thousand angler trips this past season but only
eighteen hours per acre of fishing pressure.

For other types of recreation, water is almost invariably
the prime requirement. Reservoirs are usually surrounded
by attractive wooded areas, located within easy reach of
populations, of suflicient size for efficient development, and
exhibit the type of previous care and maintenance which
would make them of prime recreation value.

Springfield, Illinois, was faced with the need for an
additional surface source. Water works officials carefully
planned the location and costs of the proposed reservoir.
When the proposal was placed hefore the voters, it con-
tained alternate cost estimates based upon full or limited
recreation usage. Fuller usage, though more expensive, won

out at voting time . . . the voters knew what they wanted!

JUNE, 1962

The present restrictive policies governing broader usage
of water supply sources frequently constitute a shocking
waste of a valuable resource, in many instances to the
direct economic disadvantages of a municipality. In a
densely urbanized state such as Massachusetts, multiple use,
where feasible, must be a basic principle of land and water
management.

Over 150,000 acres of forest land are presently held for
watershed protection purposes in Massachusetts, land fully
capable of sustained production of wood products. Yet less
than a fifth of this acreage is estimated to be under adequate
forest management at the present time. Given the same
degree of professional service afforded the rest of the
water supply system, these watersheds could he returning
upwards of three-quarters of a million dollars in annual
income to their respective municipalities.

Would water yields suffer under intensive forest manage-
ment? Recent studies indicate to the contrary. Specialized
practices have been developed for water supply watersheds
which include species changes, strip cutting to encourage
snow storage, and thinnings to reduce interception and
transpiration. Such programs can be undertaken com-
mercially with valuable returns in both water and wood
products.

Also on the economic side, it is perfectly feasible to
anticipate recreation usage which will, at the least, pay
for itself. Voters do not object to paying for facilities
which are provided for their comfort and convenience, and
it might well be that the municipality could reap a modest
income from the operation of certain recreation facilities.
It is my understanding, for example, that the facilities for
fishermen at Quabbin Reservoir are now being Operated
at an annual profit to the water users of metropolitan
Boston.

Where recreation functions are given proper recognition,
rather than permitted to flourish surreptitiously, the water
user may actually receive better sanitary protection at the
source under multiple use. A basic principle of any recre-
ation development is to limit entrance and exit points in
order to gain effective control of recreation users. A logic-
al rule of thumh might be to open those reservoirs and
drainage areas to controlled recreation where proper stand-
ards cannot now be effectively enforced.

Also on the side of an economic asset are the problems
being faced by the communities in providing adequate
recreation facilities for their own citizens. There is an
astonishing degree of interest to this end in Massachusetts
through the efforts of newly authorized city and town con-
servation commissions.

Where such facilities can be provided at water supply
reservoirs, the municipality may be relieved of substantial
added financial burdens. In fact, the cost of providing
additional treatment to permit multiple use may be well

below that of acquiring and developing a new area for
recreation purposes alone.

In some urban communities, the reservoirs and protected
watershed constitute the only sizeable green space remain-
ing! In terms of increased property values, sound future

Continued on Page 306

293

The World of the

Swimming Pool

It should be a place of learning and growth

for our children and youth

Robert A. IDentler

swimming pool is a special world

indeed! The world of the pool
or beach offers valuable opportunities
with a scope and variety potentiality
that cannot be duplicated in park rec-
reation, in school, or in neighborhood
play. Pool Operators and managers are
engaged in an extremely serious busi-
ness as far as the well being of children
is concerned. For child’s play is seri-
ous, and swimming is one of the very
best kinds of play.

In the world of the child, play is of-
ten the most important thing there is.
It is what you plan to do, dream about,
scheme toward, and, most of all, spend
your waking hours on. Psychologist
Roger Barker has pointed out that good
play entails risks. It involves a balance
of drama, danger, and challenge. The
child finds all of this in the special
world he finds at beach or pool.

Learning to swim has very high pri-
ority on any list of elementary school
age children’s interests. This is clear
from a variety of studies of play prefer-
ences. It is also clear from the record
of what happens whenever a commu-
nity sets up a well-planned swimming
program. To understand what makes
swimming such a good form of child’s
play, let us consider the different values
it offers children at their various stages

of growth.

The Preschooler: How four- and five-
year-olds will respond to water play de-

F on ALL CHILDREN, the world of the

DR. DENTLER, formerly assistant di-
rector, Bureau of Child Research, U ni-
versity of Kansas, is now assistant
professor of sociology and anthropo-
logy at Dartmouth. This paper was
presented at the 1961 Annual Meeting
of the Kansas Swimming Pool Associa-
tion and provoked much comment.

294

pends largely on how their parents han-
dled bathing and water toddling when
the child was one, two, and three years
old. Behavior of four- and five-year
olds is important because functions
such as running and swimming cannot
be exercised heavily before four.

Part of the motor development of
four-year-olds is intrinsic'or matura—
tional; that is, it depends upon what
happens genetically from within the
child. Most research on motor deve10p-
ment, however, emphasizes the external
factor of learning. By age four most
children have the stamina, the muscula-
ture, and the bone structure necessary
for sustained swimming activity.
Whether they will swim depends chiefly
upon whether they have a chance to
learn.

Learning to swim depends first upon
proper motivation. There are three
fundamental reasons why swimming
provides an ideal motivating condition
for the motor development of the ad-
vanced preschooler. First, the four- or
five-year-old is psychologically most
concerned with the problem of personal
initiative. If he has developed soundly
as a two- and three-year-old, he has be-
gun to solve two earlier psychological
problems, those of trust and autonomy.

Trust is a matter of the younger
child’s realizing that his parents and,
indeed, the world around him as a
whole are there to stay; that they hold
no threat of withdrawing support; and
of sensing that one can trust one’s own
responses to this world. Water play is
important to this development problem
because it involves risks and danger in
the mind of the child. Through experi-
mentation one more area of threat sur-
renders to a sense of trust. Part of the
motivation of the four-year-old toward

 

water play and swimming comes from
a reliving of the achievement of trust.

The key psychological problem for
most two- and tllree-year-olds might be
said to be that of autonomy, the prob-
lem of whether thc child can realize he

is someone set apart, independent of
parents and other peoplc and things
generally. Autonomy involves also the
challenge of control, for it is hard to
be somebody apart from others until
you can make your body behave as you
wish.

One often sees one- and two-year-old
children having more fun in a pool than
three-year-olds. Three-year-olds are
more fearful and more frustrated. They
are coping with the question of whether

they can “handle themselves” safely

RECREATION

 

and successfully in the water, a ques-
tion that seldom occurs to the two-year-
old. Part of the motivation toward
swimming for the four-year-old, then,
is a reliving of his sense of being some-
body set independently apart from
adults.

For the five-year-old who has
achieved a sense of trust and a sense of
autonomy, the prime challenge is one
of active initiative. The four-year-old
is self-activated. He has a high surplus
of energy to pour into play. He can
forget failures quickly, and he can aiIn
his efforts at mastery of skills. Play be-
comes less and less random for him.
Activity gets focused and disciplined.
Splashing and running in the water. for
example, are transformed into efforts

JUNE, 1962

The world of the swimming pool is a special world indeed!

Opposite page: Good play entails risks, involves a bal-
ance'of drama, danger, and challenge . . . under supervision.

Above left: The adolescent is busy showing himself of} and
watching others show themselves of}. Life around the pool
is apt to achieve its silliest level among teenagers.

Left: Programs of instruction, supervision, transportation,
and water play should reveal to children possibilities for
fun and learning, are a necessary part of pool operation.

Above: Where organized competition is de-emphasized,
swimming takes on a novelty and uniqueness not shared by
other child activities. Swimming and water play should pro-
vide a learning experience, increase child’s confidence.

to hold one’s breath under water, to go
out where it is deeper, to dog-paddle
and, most of all, to swim like the bigger
children.

The preschooler of five knows he can
walk and run effectively; indeed, he is
interested in what else he can do with
his arms and legs. Swimming for this
child is more novel than any other leg
or arm exercise. It seems like another
sort of basic achievement, a way of get-
ting your body to do what you want
under completely changed conditions.
As a challenge for the child wrapped
up in the question of initative, it is
ideaL
The Young School-Age Child: The

limitation on the five-year-old is that he
tires quickly of sustained effort. He

likes to initiate but he seldom follows
through. If the chance at trying to
swim or trying to water slide is missed
during this period, it becomes that
much harder later on, for no confidence
has been built up. It is an untried thing,
and the fourth and fifth are the best
years for trying. They are not the best
for motor learning, however. Fatigue,
boredom, and distraction are quick
prohibitors. Concentration is short,
and the child turns quickly toward
distractions.

Water play for the preschool child is
not merely a siphon for excess energy.
It is a road toward mastery of the self,
the body, and the world through ex—
perimenting, sharing, and trying out
the body. For the eight-year-old, it is

295

all these things too. Water play and
swimmingr are not merely exercises to-
ward mastery for the eight-year-old;
rather they are ways of becoming part
of the adult world.

Th: child from seven through twelve
sees the swimming pool as a miniature
world. socially as well as physically.
Everything about the pool area and its
operation becomes important. Life-
guards are men and women to be iden-
tified with. Lockerroom transactions,
dressing, undressing, showering, being
inspected are significant procedures for
the school-age child, procedures he sees
as part of the industrious, busy world
of rules, skills, and achievements.

The big danger in this elementary-
school period is the psychological dan-
ger of inferiority. Learning to swim
and to do it well, learning to dive, to
stay under water, to play complicated
games of tag and water-hide are vital
resources for achieving a sense of phys-
ical and social adequacy. If the child
has had a chance at the water before
he is seven or eight, this adequacy and
the confidence it brings are easier to
achieve.

School-age children are the hardest
hit group when pool administrators
place sharp restrictions on the games
and forms of play that are permitted in
the swimming area. These rules are of-
ten necessary; usually they are for
safety. Often they result from poor de-
sign of the plant. Where conditions are
ideal—where the diving area is widely
separated from other sections, where a
sloping wading section is available,
where the decks are thirty feet wide or
wider—rules against diverse play can
be held to a minimum and younger chil-
dren can become skilled in rapid order.

Programs of instruction, supervi-
sion, transportation, and water play
that reveal to children the possibilities
for fun and learning, are a necessary
part of pool and beach operations.
However, it is doubtful whether com-
petitive swimming and diving are
sound features of such pool program-
ing for school-age children. First,
American school-age children are ex-
posed year round, at home, at school,
and in their peer groups to competition.
Research investigations suggest that
eight- and nine-year-old children have
learned to be more competitively ori-

296

ented than cooperative. They will work
harder to make a good individual or
team showing than to cooperate with
others. Competitive swimming of the
organized sort simply adds to this ex-
aggerated condition. When overdone,
organized competition can become just
one more among dozens of competitive
situations confronting the child. Where
organized competition is de-empha-
sized, swimming takes on a novelty and
uniqueness not shared by other child
activities.

Secondly, competition strikes deep
at the key function of swimming and
water play for the school-age child: to
provide a learning experience that in-
crcases the sense of adequacy. In com-
petition, few are good enough to even
get into the running—and they are al-
ways the least inferior among the chil-
dren. Most children must, find them-
selves too inferior to even “get in the
swim” in organized competition. Com-
petitive swimming puts most of the
children out of the pool and on the

deck, where they do not really want to

be.

Adolescents: Competitive swimming
for teenagers is an entirely different
matter. Psychologically the concern of
the adolescent is aimed not at answer-
ing the problem of learning skills and
adequacy, but at estimating identity.
The question for the sixteen-year-old is,

“Who Am I?” and, “What do they

think about me?” Much fear of inferi-

 

ority may be built into the asking of
this question for youth who did not
gain enough confidence earlier. But the
distinctive interest is centered on the
question, “How do I look—to others
and to myself?”

Pool life for the teenager becomes a
blend of self-display and spectatorship.
The fifteen-year-old is showing himself
off and is watching others show them-
selves off. Organized competition is
one ideal vehicle for constructive chan-
neling of these impulses. It gives the
teenagers a chance to work toward a
good display of self under fair, or adult-
supervised, conditions, and it gives
them a chance to watch, review, and ap-
preciate each other as audiences.

Life around the pool is apt to move
toward its silliest level among teenage
youth. In trying to give the world of
the pool the appearance of glamour, ex-
citement—in trying to build up a set-
ting in which they can “see tllcmselves”
and others most impressively—adoles-
cents are very apt to settle for suntan
lotions, cokes, and nervous flirting,
combined with blaring radio or phono-
graph music. These features are essen—
tial to this world———-in proper degrec;
but if this is all the pool has to offer, it
gives nothing lllOI'C than the roller rink,
lhe sock hop or the drive-in and them-
fore becomes a bore.

Three techniques which will fulfill
adolescent nceds constructivcly in the
world of the pool or beach may be these:
0 Teenagers should have a part in the
opcrating of the plant, as lifeguards or
other employees or helpers. This tells
thcm as an age group that the world
of the pool is partly theirs. Since the
best youth may be chosen as workers.
models are provided for the big watch-
ing activity that is part of the search
for idcntity.

0 Organized competition is ideal for
teenagers.

0 Some tolerance for the junk of their
special world must be accepted—-the
loud music, the sex byplay, the lounge-
lizardry of lazy kids—to prove that the
pool is a place where they can find
themselves. But this feature must bc
limited. If the pool becomes only for
them, it offers nothing of special value.
It must be controlled and supervised

by adults and Operated for little as well
as big children. #

RECREATION

@ADMINISTRATION

 

We Must Preserve Campground Habitat

Arthur W. Magill

HE NUMBER of camping families
in the United States has reached

four million a year as G. T. Wil-
son recently pointed out in RECREATION
(June 1961). Through Operation Out-
doors, the US. Forest Service is busy
working to take care of this growing
recreation activity by rehabilitating
worn-out facilities and developing new
ones. Other federal agencies and state
and local governments have similar pro-
grams. Yet, despite herculean efforts
of all agencies, new facilities have not
kept pace with the rising demand for
campgrounds, picnic areas, and other
improvements. Consequently, soil and
vegetation on many outdoor recreation
sites are deteriorating faster than na-
ture can rebuild them.

For evidence of this trend, you need
only look around at some heavily used
areas in the West. Take Billy Creek
Campground in the Sierra National
Forest in California. At its edge you’ll
see, as Forest Service researchers have,
a thirty-eight-year-old white fir less
than two feet tall. If this “dwarf” had
grown normally it would be about sev-
enty-five feet tall at this age, but now it
has little chance to mature and help
maintain the forest scene at Billy Creek.

This tree is only one of many symp-
toms of campground deterioration re-
corded in a survey of 137 campgrounds
on fourteen national forests in Califor-
nia during 1960. The survey is part of
a two-pronged research program started
by the Pacific Southwest Forest and
Range Experiment Station of the US.
Forest Service to seek solutions for
problems created by the impact of rec-
reation use.

One phase of the program is looking
into economic factors: What patterns of
forest recreation do people ‘prefer?
How should we measure use of recrea-

 

MR. MAGILL is a research forester for
the Paci 15c Southwest Forest and Range
Experiment Station of the U. S. Forest
Service in Berkeley, California.

JUNE, 1962

What
are
the

results
of
overuse

of
campgrounds?

tion areas to get consistent, accurate
data for recreation planners?

The other phase, with which we are
concerned here, is looking into ecologi-
cal factors: What is the capacity of a
particular site to provide pleasant, suit-
able surroundings for outdoor recrea-
tion? What is the result of overuse on
campgrounds and picnic areas? The
aim of this research is to develop knowl-
edge of ecological factors upon which
to base capacity estimates. Such esti-
mates will help land managers select the
best campground sites and manage them
for sustained high production.

THE 1960 SURVEY was a first step. Its
goal was to identify more clearly
the problems that must be studied if we
are to evaluate how soil and vegetation
on recreation areas react to human use
and to other factors of the environment.

Chances are you have seen many of
these problems yourself—perhaps un-
knowingly helped to create them-——if
you were one of the ninety-two million
visitors to national forests in 1960.
Here are some of the conditions found
in the 137 campgrounds surveyed in
California:

Half of them did not have enough
young trees to replace those which will
succumb to old age and natural enemies

in the years ahead. More than half of

 

the campgrounds in ponderosa pine for-
ests lacked shrubs and young trees
needed to screen individual campsites
and preserve the forest scene. Seventy
percent of the campgrounds lacked a
normal accumulation of dead twigs and
leaves on the forest floor. This accumu-
lated litter plays an important role in
the development of a forest. As it de-
cays, it feeds nutrients to plant roots.
It aids movement of water into the soil
and it protects soil from compaction
and erosion. 0n three-fifths of the
campgrounds, so little of it was left that
the trampled soil resembled paved sur-
faces. The net result is that many camp-
grounds look like outdoor ballrooms———
with scattered columns of old trees sup-
porting a roof of green above a dusty
floor. ‘

HOW have these conditions come
about? Increased camping pres-
sure must take much of the blame.
Trampling feet and auto traflic grind
the litter to dust and crush shrub and
tree seedlings. Campers chop off tree
limbs and saplings to make tent poles,
stakes, and bough beds. Not even ma-
ture trees escape injury—many have
open wounds where cars buInp them or
campers carve and chop at the trunk.
All of this damage makes camp-
ground plants easy prey for natural

297

Broken, stunted plants are too
resist insects and diseases.

('[l."l:al" .
seats
OPU‘. V'1uIIdS are entry ports for air-
borne spores of wood-decaying fungi
that at .ack liVing trees. New growth on
dwarfed trees stays within reach of deer
which browse off the succulent young
twigs each year. Even the dust from
bare campsites contributes to the dam-
age; it reduces plant growth by sealing
the pores through which plants absorb
or release air and water vapor.
Foresters have learned to cope with
most forest pests, but losses which are
considered tolerable on commercial
timberland cannot be tolerated on rec-
reation areas. Here, every young tree,
each screening shrub, has a vital role
in maintaining the aesthetic complex.
An entirely different approach must be
worked out for sites in which the wear
and tear of camping and picnicking is
superimposed on the normal attrition

caused by insects, disease, and animals.

How can ecological research help the
recreation planner overcome these dif-
ficulties? Judging from their survey of
National Forest campgrounds in Cal-
ifornia, Forest Service researchers be-
lieve that the necessary new approach
can be developed to determine:

0 The level of recreation pressure un-
der which established plants are able to
survive and reproduce.

o The effects of soil compaction and
other soil disturbances on recreation

areas.

0 The amount of use that different
kinds of soil can absorb without inhib-
iting plant growth.

0 The importance of accumulated nat-
ural litter to soil protection, seedling
establishment, plant growth, root pro-
tection, and dust control, and the kind
of use that litter can withstand.

 

Conservation Awards

The Ninth Annual American Motors
Conservation Awards resulted in hon-
ors for twenty individuals and two
groups. Each winner received an en-
graved bronze-and-walnut plaque. In
the professional category, each recipi-
ent was awarded $500. The awards
honored accomplishments in virtually
all aspects of conservation, including
water resources, pollution control, for-
estry, soil, range management, and
wildlife.

In the professional category, winners
were 0. N. “Pop” Harrington, Arizona
Game and Fish Department; Charles E.
Baker, New York State Conservation
Department; Robert C. Baum, Oregon

State Soil Conservation Committee;
Gabriel Epstein, USDA Soil Conserva-
tion Service, Redlands, California;
Harry R. Gaines (retired), Michigan
United Conservation Clubs; Charles H.
McDonald, U.S. Forest Service, Stev-
ensville, Montana; Werner O. Nagel,
Missouri Conservation Commission;

Richard Pough, Natural Area Council,
Inc., Pelham, New York; Frederick G.
Renner, U. S. Soil Conservation Serv-
ice, Washington, D.C.; and Laurel Van
Camp, Ohio Division of Wildlife.

Ten winners who were not profes-
sional conservationists but who were
honored for notable contributions were
Louis H. Barkhausen, Chicago, past-

 

 

Healthful fun for every age group!
DIMCO SHUFFLEBOARD

  

298

Children. young people. adults . .
Dimco Shuffleboard for excitement. relaxation and
wholesome exercisel Court diagram can easily be laid.
indoors or outdoors. Famous Dimco equipment. in
low-price "Sunlife'I or premium-quality "Free-Glide"
lines. comes in sturdy Regulation Sets or Junior Sets
(2/3 regulation size).

. everyone enioys

FREE . . . Court layout plans. game rules. catalog of
Dimco shuffleboarcl sets. Write today to:

DIMCO-GRAY.r 205 E. Sixth St... Dayton 2, Ohlo
M

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

o The degree to which recreation use
accelerates damage to plants by insects,
disease, and animals.

STUDIES seeking such information
were started by the Pacific South-
west Forest and Range Experiment Sta-
tion in 1961. From these studies will
come guidelines to help planners select
potential campsites with high ability to
withstand the impact of recreation use.

Thus, through research, the Forest
Service is striving to make sure that
future camping facilities will find the
scenic appeal and back-country atmos-
phere they expect in National Forest
campgrounds. Better knowledge of
plant and soil behavior under stress will
permit management for high “sustained
yield” of recreation values, just as tim-
ber and range lands are managed for
continuous production of wood and

meat. #

president of Ducks Unlimited; Bruce
Bowler, Boise, Idaho, a lawyer who bat-
tled for conservation; Mrs. James Bu-
ell, Gary, Indiana, crusader to save the
Indiana Dunes; David B. Charlton,
Portland, Oregon, bacteriologist fight-
ing water pollution; Harvey Flint,
Providence, Rhode Island, another
fighter against water pollution; Arthur
B. Johnson, West Covina, California,
leader of the fight to preserve Rainbow
Bridge National Monument in Utah;
Charles F. Lewis, Pittsburgh, the un-
salaried president of the Western Penn-
sylvania Conservancy; Ernest Linford,

Salt Lake City, Utah, editorial writer
and advocate of sound conservation
practices; Earl S. Mensch, Boyertown,
Pennsylvania, director of the Soil Con-
servation District of Berks County; and
Howard E. Nelson, Vancouver, Wash-
ington, promoter of National Wildlife
Week.

The group winners were the Commit-
tee to Save the Glen, Yellow Springs,
Ohio, which fought right to the state
house to preserve a one thousand-acre
tract belonging to Antioch College, and
the League of Women Voters, with
headquarters in Washington, D.C., who
have been working as influences on fed-
eral, state, and local legislation on
water resources and pollution control.

RECREATION

@ADMINISTRATION

 

Outdoor
Recreation

and the
Delaware River
Basin

Frank W. Dressler
GLANCE AT A

A MAP showing

the population
concentration of
the United States
reveals a virtually
continuous urban

area on the East-
ern Coast that stretches from Portland,

Maine, to Norfolk, Virginia. Dr. Jean
Cottmann, the eminent French geogra—
pher, has dubbed this urban sprawl phe-
nomenon “megalopolis” and in his
brilliant book of that name has ana-
lyzed the problems and reactions of ur-
ban, suburban, and exurban areas as
one spills into the other. ( See Page 323
for a review of Megalopolis.)

Two of the major problems of “meg-

 

alopolis” are its need for vast quantities
of free water and its equally great need
for water sites that can be used for rec-

MR. DRESSLER is executive director of
the Water Resources Association of the
Delaware River Basin in Philadelphia.
The association is a nonprofit, im-
partial federation of over 450 organi-
zations and individuals in the basin
area and was established in the belief
that citizen interest, understanding, and
participation are essential for the order-
ly development of the Delaware’s water
resources to service four states.

JUNE, 1962

 

Proposed Tacks Island National Recreation Area would be
created by constructing dam across northern end of the is-
land ( view is looking upstream) with a reservoir extending
upriver thirty-seven miles north to Port Jervis, New Y ork.

A comprehensive water plan

will mean expanding recreation areas

reation purposes; two of its major
characteristics are its continuing reach
into the lightly populated, water-rich
hinterlands for the needed supplies of
water and the periodic migration of
its population to the same areas for
water-based recreation activities.

Lying at about the heart of “megalo-
polis” is the 12,750-square-mile Dela-
ware River Basin, a midget in compari-
son with many American river basins
but a giant from the point of view of
the service its water resources render.
The p0pulation of the Delaware Basin
is, about seven million, mostly concen-
trated along the navigable estuary from
Trenton to the Delaware Bay. The ba-
sin’s upper two-thirds is lightly popu-
lated, largely wooded . . . and water-
rich.

In 1920, long before “megalopolis”
emerged, New York City began looking
at the headwaters of the Delaware as a
potential source of potable supplies of
water. New York’s covetous glances
alarmed Pennsylvania and New Jersey
and, intermittently between 1920 and
1955, the three parties litigated their
“rights” to the waters of the Delaware.
However, the incipient “megalopolis”
had to be served. In 1931, the U. S.
Supreme Court permitted New York
City to divert water from the Delaware

to slake its expanding thirst; in 1954-
the Supreme Court permitted New
York City to increase its Delaware di-
version to a daily total of 800,000,000
gallons and also permitted New Jersey
to divert another 100,000,000 gallons
per day to its thirsty industrial heart-
land. As a result of these diversions,
the “midget” Delaware Basin daily sup-
plies all or part of the water needs of
a service area with a population of

23,000,000.

AFTER the devastating floods that
followed in the wake of hurricanes
Connie and Diane in August of 1955,
the Delaware Basin states, New York,
Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Dela-
ware, acted quickly to resolve their a]-
location dispute and thus get under way
a badly needed program of both water
control and deveIOpment in the basin.
The urgent need for development be-
came dramatically apparent about two
years ago when the Army Engineers an-
nounced that Philadelphia would feel
the “water pinch” by 1970 if a program
of development was not undcrtaken al-
most immediately. Two water-resource
programs were initiated in 1956 by the
federal government and the Delaware
Basin states that should have the pro-
foundest effect on the development of

299

EEA DAIINIS TRATION

 

outdoor recreation resources in the
basin.

The first program was started in late
1955 when the U. S. Congress directed
the Army Corps of Engineers to com-
prehensively survey the water problems
and needs of the basin and, once the
survey was completed, to design a com-
prehensive physical plan to solve the
problems and meet the needs as pro-
jected for the years from 1960 to 2010.
Significantly, the Corps of Engineers
was directed to include outdoor recrea-
tion as a prime consideration in both

the survey and the plan.

By the end of 1956 the Army Engi-
neers had contracted with the National
Park Service to:

0 Inventory existing outdoor recrea-
tion resources in the area served by the
Delaware.

0 Estimate the outdoor recreation de-
mands for the years from 1960 through
2010.

o In conjunction with the Engineers,
submit plans to develOp the outdoor
recreation potential of every reservoir
that the Engineers included in the final
comprehensive plan.

THE National Park Service’s findings
and recommendations became pub-
licly available about a year ago and
boil down, in essence, to five major
points:

0 The Park Service concluded that to-
tal outdoor recreation demand in the
area served by the Delaware would in-
crease by more than six and a half times
between the years 1955 and 2010.

o The Park Service concluded that the
recreation products of multiple-purpose
dam and reservoir projects should be
developed to satisfy one-day outings
since this will be the major recreation
need in the next several decades. Spe-
eifieally, the Park Service recommends
that all proposed reservoirs be devel-
oped to provide the type of activities
usually found at state parks.

0 The Park Service estimated that in
1955 there was need but no facilities or
parks to support visits by 15,680,000
pe0ple. This is hardly news to anyone
that has gone to a state park or even a

300

privately developed outdoor recreation
establishment lately. In too many state
parks in the Delaware Basin fifty thou-
sand people are jammed into areas de-
signed to support or accommodate
twenty thousand. In short, overcrowd-
ing is now and for too many years has
been the order of the day in most out-
door recreation developments, whether
public or private.

0 The Park Service estimates that total
annual visitation to state-park-type es-
tablishments, the type of establishment
featuring water and water-related ac-

tivities, will reach 55,700,000 by 1965,
98,700,000 by 1980, and 227,000,000
by the year 2010.

o The Park Service estimates that by
developing the recreation potential of
all the fifty-eight proposed reservoirs
in the Corps of Engineers’ plan for the
Delaware for one-day outings they
could be made to support about 38,-
000,000 visitors annually.

These National Park estimates mean,
in conclusion, that with present private
and state park facilities in the Delaware
the fifty-eight reservoirs are devel-
oped for recreation purposes—that the
Delaware Basin will still face a defi-
cit of outdoor recreation Spaces and fa-
cilities to support at least 144,000,000
visits a year. Reduced to an annual
basis, this means that each and every
year for the next fifty years, Space and
facilities should be acquired and devel-
oped in the service area to accommo-

date close to 3,000,000 visits.

HAT WILL as DONE ahout this cri-
sis in outdoor recreation in the
Delaware Basin?

A major part of what will be done
stems from the second water resource
program initiated by the Delaware Ba-
sin states in 1956. Experience as recent
as 1953 taught the basin states that
comprehensive plans for devc10ping
and controlling water resources can be
valueless without an agency of govern-
ment whose major concern is the com-
prehensive plan and its execution. The
size of the coordination function enk
hraced within a comprehensive water
plan alone staggers the imagination. In
the basin today, there are nineteen fed-
eral, forty-three state, and fourteen in-
terstate agencies with water programs,

as well as over two hundred and fifty
private or public water utilities.

The upshot of this realization was
the drafting and legislative passage of
a unique interstate-federal compact for
the Delaware Basin. Signed into law
by President Kennedy only last Septem-
ber, the compact provides for the crea-
tion of the Delaware River Basin Com-
mission, a truly regional agency of gov-
ernment with vast powers for develop-
ing and controlling the waters of the
entire Delaware Basin. The new com-
mission is the first instance in this coun-
try in which the states and the federal
government have become equal part-
ners in an Operating agency of govern-
ment.

Since last September the Delaware
River Basin Commission has met sev-
eral occasions, most recently on Febru-
ary 28, at which time a public hearing
was held 011 its first plan. Not surpris-
ingly, the commission’s first plan is
largely the one developed hy the Corps
of Engineers. The commission’s first
plan, like the Army’s, calls for the de-
velopment of outdoor recreation poten-
tial of all proposed reservoirs. Most
significantly, however, the commis-
sion’s first plan calls for the develop-
ment of the proposed Toeks Island Res-
ervoir as a National Recreation Area
by the National Park Service.

THE PROPOSED Toeks lsland (lam
would be located on the Delaware
River about six miles above the Dela-
ware Water Gap. The reservoir created
behind the dam would extend about
thirty-seven miles from Tocks Island to
Port Jervis, New York, with a second-
ary reservoir running about eight miles
up Flat Brook in New Jersey. The en-
tire reservoir would have over a bun-
dred miles of shoreline.

In recommending that the first Na-
tional Recreation Area in the Eastern
United States he created at Tocks Is-
land, the National Park Service pointed
out that 20,000,000 people live Within
seventy-five miles of the project, and
30,000,000 within a hundred miles of
the project. The Park Service also ree-
ommcnded that the approximately 62.-
000 acres involved with the project-—
14.000 acres of water surface, and 4-8,-
000 acres of land surface-——bc devel-
oped into ten integrated recreation

RECREATon

areas that would afford an estimated
7,000,000 visitors annually a choice of
everything from camping, fishing and
hunting to swimming and hiking.
The proposed Tocks Island National
Recreation Area has generated such in-
terest that Congressman Francis W’.
Walter, whose district embraces the
Pennsylvania portion of the project, has
taken the extraordinary step of intro-
ducing a bill to authorize the National
Recreation Area (HR. 10522) even be-
fore the dam and reservoir project have
been authorized by the Congress. There
seems little doubt, however, that the
current Congress will authorize the con-
struction of the Tocks Island Dam. It
is hoped that the reservoir and the Na-
tional Recreation Area will be in opera-
tion no later than 1975 and perhaps as

early as 1970.

To quote the report of the Outdoor
Recreation Resources Review Commis-
sion, the problem of outdoor recreation
resources “is not one of number of
acres but of effective acres—acres of
land and water available to public and
usable for specific types of recreation.
. . .” ( F or further details on the ORR-
RC report, see RECREATION, March and
April 1962).

THE SIGNIFICANCE of the long-range,
well-planned program of the Dela-
ware River Basin Commission is that it
will be developing the most highly ef-
fective of all recreation acres, acres cen-
tering upon water. Moreover, by di-
rectly involving the federal government
in a huge undertaking like Tocks Is-
land, the commission helps to release
state dollars for the purchase of addi-
tional effective acres. New Jersey, for
example, will use some of the money

from its $60,000,000 “Green Acres”

program not at Tocks Island but at
Hackettstown, a reservoir site which

the National Park Service calls one of

the best nonurban recreation areas in
the East.

Obviously, the outdoor recreation
“crisis” in the Delaware Basin, as in
other basins, will be met only through
the separate actions of both government
and private enterprise. Private enter-
prise, however, cannot create the vast
impoundments needed to slake the

thirst of cities and industries and meet

JUNE, 1962

 

Neversinlc Dam on a Delaware tributary is typical of the nine large multi-
purpose dams to be built in the Delaware Basin in the next thirty years.

Canoeists enjoy a plac-
id reach along the Del-
aware near the historic
picturesque town of
New Hope, Pennsyl-

vania.

 

the daily recreation needs of hundreds

of thousands of urban residents. Pri-
vate enterprise, can, however, meet the
needs of those groups—groups that will
grow ever larger as the workday short-
ens and per-capita income rises—that
seek outdoor recreation in the some-
what more tranquil privately owned
areas away from the urban crowds.
The significance of the Delaware
River Basin Commission to the rest of
“megalopolis” is that the commission

 

Last one in is a . . . . This trio
leaps into a privately owned
pond, one of the many dotting
the upstream area of the river.

will seek to reserve and develop, in the
near future, reservoir (and hence out-
door recreation) sites that lie within
easy driving distance of the heart of
“mega10polis” itself. These publicly
developed projects should stimulate
numerous (and profitable) private de-
velopments also within easy reach of
the heart of “megalopolis.” Together,
these effectively developed acres should
go far toward meeting the basin’s out-
door recreation crisis. if:

301

 

Fees Backfire

Evolution of a summer playground in an Illinois park
district of approximately fifteen thousand pe0ple was re-
corded in a statistical report covering a five-year study of
attendance. During the fifth year, when the district intro-
duced a participant fee, attendance dropped off a third.

The first year of operation, involving a ten-week period
of morning sessions, had a registration of 1,313 and a total
attendance of 18,807 participants. The second year, the pro-
gram was conducted afternoons for an eight-week period.
Arts and crafts were added and registrations, including
archery, tennis, and basketball, totaled 2,123. Total attend-
ance was 27,356. The third year, nature, dramatics, music,
junior Olympics track and swimming competition were
added. During the eight-week period of afternoon Opera-
tion, registration was 2,667 and attendance totaled 32,340.
The fourth year, there were no changes in schedule but both
Iegistration and attendance increased to 3,104 and 39,648,
respectively.

The fifth year, the program was again conducted after-
noons for eight weeks, but bowling and baseball were added
as morning activities. A $1.00 fee was assessed each par-
ticipant for the period, although no excessive pressure was
placed on a participant for not paying the fee. Registrations
.dr0pped to 2,078 and attendance to 22,874, or less than two-
thirds the number recorded the previous summer.

* * l- *

Late in 1960, following a comprehensive study of the local
situation, a parks and recreation department in a Western
city ad0pted a schedule of fees and charges designed to bring
in approximately $44,000 during 1961, or one half the rec-
reation division budget. The schedule included a wide range
of activities, some of which had previously been free, and
increased charges for many other program features.

By the first of September income from fees and charges
totaled only $17,000, or less than half the anticipated
amount. Players and team managers in several leagues re-
fused to play because of the fees and charges schedule; in
other leagues, the enrollment was curtailed markedly. A
baseball program for older boys was transferred to diamonds
outside the city limits, and basketball leagues decided to play
outside the department’s jurisidiction. A proposal to charge
,a fee for enrollment in elementary-school activities was
dr0pped because of failure to reach agreement with the
school officials. In four locations, it proved impossible to
.sell craft cards for a fee of $1.00 to participants in the play-
ground program. On the other hand, there was little objec-
tion on the part of boat operators to a fee for a boat permit
or to charges for older children at the swimming pool. Many
_groups did not use a picnic center because of the charge.

One comment on the results of the fees~and-charges sched-

.302

ule indicated that its failure was due in part to a lack of
pr0per interpretation and preliminary discussion with par-
ticipating groups and too drastic an increase at one time.

Cooperative Culture

Tacoma, Washington, has joined the ranks of the cities
that have entered into COOperative agreements with agencies
serving the cultural interests of their pe0ple. Tacoma has
made an agreement with Allied Arts of Tacoma, a non-
profit corporation, for a fifteen-year lease of the city’s public-
safety building at $1 per year. The agreement provides that
Allied Arts shall make necessary repairs and modifications
to the structure, shall not permit any activities in the build-
ing for the private profit of any group other than Allied Arts,
and will acquire appr0priate liability and property damage
insurance. The city will contribute $3,000 per year toward
maintenance of the building. All branches of fine and ap-
plied arts will be sponsored for the benefit of the public, and
facilities will include offices, workshops, exhibit spaces, and

a public auditorium.

Mandatory Referral

According to the December 1961 issue of Public Manage-
ment, a new Illinois law provides mandatory referral to the
Chicago Plan Commission for all public improvement proj-
ects within the city pr0posed by the Chicago Board of Edu-
cation, the Chicago Park District, Cook County, and other
governments. Previously only city departments and urban
renewal agencies were required to refer proposed projects
to the commission. The mandatory referral applies to ac-
quisition and sale of land, change of use of land already
held by the government agency, and location of any new
public improvement. If the plan commission objects to any
pr0posal, it can file a written report, but this action is not
binding upon the agency proposing the action.

Aquatic Zoning

The increased p0pularity of aquatic activities and the re-
sulting hazards due to the unregulated recreation use of
water areas have caused some localities to extend the princi-
ples of zoning to such areas. The National Safety Council
reports that the Louisiana Wild Life and Fisheries Commis-
sion has given the New Orleans City Council the authority
to set aside areas in Lake Pontchartrain for particular boat-
ing activities and to pass an ordinance providing places for
water skiers, armed scuba divers, swimmers, bathers, and
boaters. An ordinance passed unanimously by the council
included the following: “Scuba diving without weapons, fish-
ing, swimming, and bathing shall be lawful in all other
areas of the lake not prohibited by the ordinance or other
provision of the safety code.”

RECREATION

 

Competitive Examination

Franklin A. Lindelmrg
THE HIRING of competent pool lifeguards and swimming

instructors can be a haphazard process relying en-

tirely upon subjective judgments unless some meth-
od or technique is utilized which objectively differentiates
between applicants of varying abilities and experiences. The
following competitive examination was developed to obtain
an indication of the ability of each applicant compared to
other applicants; to obtain judgments as to character and
personality; and to discover abilities to teach. This com-
petitive examination was specifically designed to rank ac-
cording to ability, as demonstrated by the test pool life-
guards and swimming instructors. After administering the
test, there is no doubt as to the varying degrees of ability of
the individual applicant and hiring becomes a positive act
with little or no subjective judgments involved.

Minimum Requirements. Certain minimum require-
ments are necessary so that high standards are maintained:
(1) minimum of eighteen years of age, (2) current lifesav-
ing certificate, (3) current water safety instructor’s certifi-
cate, and (4) pass the competitive examination and be in
the top three to be considered for each opening.

If swimming lessons are not taught and lifeguards only
are being employed, Item Three as well as Phase Three of
the test may be eliminated, Retaining these two items will,
of course, raise the standards. In selecting one out of the
top three on the qualified test, leeway is given so that par-

_________________________________._.._.——-—————-—-—

DR. LINDEBURG is assistant professor of physical education
at the University of California in Riverside and summer
aquatic director for the city of Riverside.

JUNE. 1962

for Hiring Lifeguards

ticular traits in a person can be selected. These could be
maturity, strong lifeguard, best teacher, etcetera.

The Test. The test is composed of four separate parts, each
with specific points to be checked plus a character and per-
sonality rating.

1. RESCUE OF A VIOLENT VICTIM. The rescuer “saves” a
violent victim by entering the water, approaching, placing
the victim in a carry and then assisting the now “uncon-
scious” victim out of the pool. The rescuers are graded on
proper entry into the water, proper and effective approach,
effectiveness of carry and ability to lift an unconscious vic-
tim out of the pool.

2. DEMONSTRATION or SWIMMING ABILITY. The applicant
is tested on the ability to swim the following strokes in good
form: crawl, elementary back, side and breast.

3. TEACH A SKILL. Each person taking the test selects a
skill which is normally taught at the beginner level and
teaches that skill to the other testees in the group. Points to
be checked include knowledge of subject, teaching ability,
organization of class, and leadership qualities.

4. PERFORM SPECIFIC SKILLS. Each applicant demon-
strates his ability to apply artificial respiration, execute a
shallow water jump from a five-foot high chair, surface dive
and swim thirty feet under water, and make an accurate toss
of a ring buoy.

5. In addition to being checked on specific items at each
station, the applicant is rated at each station by each ex-
aminer on general personality and character traits. Thus,
four subjective ratings are compiled on each applicant 011

303

 

TEST 1
RESCUE TEST
_— Above Below .
Name: Outstanding Average Average Average Failure Total
."JHN DOE (5 pts.) (4 pts.) (3 pts.) (2 pts.) (1 pts.) Pomts

—__..—-——n_
_—._—.—_——._————
—_‘

 

Carry I i __
Lift Out of the Pool l
Character 8. Personality ,'

TOTAL POINTS

TEST 2
SWIMMING ABILITY

Name: Outstanding Average Average Average Failure Total
JOHN DOE (4 pts.) (3 pts.) (2 pts.) (1 pts.) Points

—-——.—-—-—--——_._--——

Crawl __ _ __ _ __
Elementary Back
Side Stroke
Breast Stroke

Character 8. Personality

-—-———_———_———-———

_——.———-———-————n—————

 

TOTAL POINTS

TEST 3
TEACHING ABILITY

Above Below
Name: Outstanding Average l-verage Average Failure Total
JOHN DOE (5 pts.) (4 pts.) (3 pts.) (2 pts.) (1 pts.) Polnts

Knowledge of Subject
Teaching Ability

Organization

_———._____——_-—_——-II—-I—
-.———-—_————.._—._

_— ————_——_—

Leadership

w—_—— __—-——————

Character 8. Personality
« TOTAL POINTS

this important category. It is in this area that a purely sub-
jective rating is made, but because the same rating is ac-
complished by four different individuals the results are cer-
tainly more reliable than when rated by one person. Person-
ality and character traits considered are those which can be
observed by an examiner and which are desired in life-
guards and swimming instructors. These would include the
personal appearance (height and weight in proportion,
strong in appearance, and well groomed), actions and man-
ner (a sense of confidence expressed by firmness in voice
and actions).

Administration of the Test. Four stations are set up
with an examiner at each. The individuals to be tested are
divided into four groups and one group is assigned to each
testing station. As the group finishes at one area it pro-
gresses to the next station going from one, to two, to three,
to four and to one. Diagram 1 indicates how a pool may
be divided and how the individuals progress clockwise
around the pool. If four examiners are not available, one,
two, or three can run the test and then the number of groups
are reduced accordingly.

The examiner rates each applicant on the items to be con-
sidered at his station on a five-point basis: 5 is outstanding;

304

 

 

L Station 1 .

TEST 4
SKILL TEST

Above Below
Name: Outstanding Average Average Average Fallure Total
(4 pts.) (3 pts.) (2 pts.) (1 pts.) Polnts

JOHN DOE (5 pts.)

Surface Dive and
Under Water Swim

Ring Buoy Toss |'

Character 8. Personality I
TOTAL POINTS

Total Score Out of a Possible tOO

John Doe Test 1 (8 points
Test 2 18 points
Test 3 24 pOlnts
Test 4 20 points

80 TOTAL
POINTS

Statlon 3. 1

deep end

shallow end

(— Station 4.

Diagram l. Swimmlng pool with stations. areas and routes Indicated
for the administration of the test.

4, above average; 3, average; 2, below average; and 1,
failure. With four items to be considered at each station,
plus the personality and character traits an individual could
obtain a perfect score of 25 at cach of four stations for a
total of one hundred points. A checksheet is used at each
station which makes the rating simple and efEcient as only
a checknlark is necessary to indicate the degree of perform-
ance on each item to be considered. Above are the four
test sheets with the checks to be made on one person’s abil-
ity during a test.

In conclusion, it can be stated that the use of a competitive
examination such as the above will insure the hiring of the
best personnel from among those who apply. This test is
easy to administer in a relatively short period of time. The
people who take the test can be appraised of their strengths
and weaknesses. The test meets the requirements of city
personnel departments in that the applicants must meet spe-
cific requirements in order to qualify for the examination
and the hiring is based on a competitive test. In addition
to the above, and one of the most important items to be con-
sidered, is the fact that an orderly procedure is set up which
provides specific machinery for the employment of the best
qualified people. #

RECREATION

o UICK

ACTION
PAYS OFF

Maricopa County, Arizona, acquires
large regional park system

Kenneth Smithee

Washington—Interior Secretary Stewart L. Udall is at
work on what is potentially the most notable as well as the
most extensive e§ort of the Kennedy administration in the
field of conservation.

And he indicated yesterday the regional parh plan of
Maricopa County [Arizona] may have a strong influence
on some of the recommendations he will make to President
Kennedy concerning outdoor recreation.

The President will send Congress a message February 21
[later postponed to March 1] setting out the objectives of
a long-range plan for outdoor recreation for Americans.—

The Arizona Republic, Feb. 4, 1962.

HE COMMUNITY COUNCIL of Phoenix, Arizona, a non-
T profit, nonpolitical community-supported service
agency, met with officials of Maricopa County and the
city of Phoenix in 1957 to discuss the need for a county-
wide park and recreation survey in order that recreation
lands, facilities, and programs could be evaluated in terms
of existing and projected needs. Since Maricopa County’s
population is among the fastest growing in the United States,
the need for such a survey was apparent. As a result of these
discussions, the,National Recreation Association was selected
by the Community Council to conduct the survey on a con-
tractual basis, with the cost being defrayed by Maricopa
County and the city of Phoenix.

Subsequently, a NRA survey team—composed of G. Leslie
Lynch, recreation planner; John J. Collier, Pacific South-
west District representative; and Marion Preece, program
specialist—in cooperation with the Community Council, es-
tablished the administrative plan for implementing the sur-
vey which involved over five hundred people serving on vari-
ous committees and subcommittees in areas concerned with
program, financing, planning, and so on. As a result of the
intense and diligent work put forth by these committees,
several major objectives were outlined in the survey.

The Land Sites Committee recommended that top priority
immediately be given to the acquisition of urban and non-
urban park lands, especially those lands which could be ac-
quired by lease from the federal and state governments. The

__________—___________.___—._..—...—-—-—--——--

MR. SMITIIEE is director of the Maricopa County, Arizona,
Parks and Recreation Department.

JUNE, 1962

committee recommended also that the full-time position of
land acquisition agent be established by the county, so that
the land-acquisition program could be coordinated under
one person.

When the survey was completed in February 1958, the
Maricopa County Parks and Recreation Commission unani-
moust recommended that the board of supervisors immedi-
ately file applications on four regional park sites, composed
of desert and mountainous terrain, surrounding the proj-
ected urban area and totaling some sixty-eight thousand
acres. Subsequently, within the year, two additional large
regional park sites were recommended to be acquired. Again
the board of supervisors, being aware of the acute need of
preserving these large sites, immediately filed the necessary
applications. Five of the six sites applied for were located
within a twenty-eight mile radium of downtown Phoenix.

“L

Secretary of the Interior Stewart L. Udall (right) points
to McDowell Mountain Regional Park recently leased to
Maricopa County by the U.S. Bureau of Land Management.
Looking on, left to right, are Fred J. Weiler, Arizona State
Director of the BLM; Arthur B. Schellenberg, a member of

the county Parks and Recreation Commission; and Mrs.
Ruth O’Neil, chairman of County Board of Supervisors.

 

Because the policy of the US. Bureau of Land Manage-
ment at that time required government agencies to pay a
leasing fee based on the value of the land, the leases on the
county regional park applications, if issued, would have re-
sulted in a prohibitive leasing fee. The county contacted
Bureau of Land Management ofIicials, both personally and
through written correspondence, urging that action be taken
which would permit the leasing of federal lands for public
park and recreation purposes at a reasonable fee, and thus
allow government agencies to expend more funds on the ac-
tual development of the parks.

Subsequently, when Stewart L. Udall became Secretary
of the Interior, one of his first actions was to issue an ad-
ministrative order which allows government agencies to pur-
chase federal lands for park and recreation purposes for

305

     
  
  

a" RIVER
(Lust amount

2. mu: litmus rnou
Downtown mama)

'HITE INK HTS-

'- 01733“.

CHANDLER

 

 

EST“ LA HTS-
“ KEY

REGIONAL PARK AREAS-LEASE! ISSUED I?
= 0.5 IUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT

EXISTING COUNTY REGIONAL PARKS-

m m1: LEAIED LAID

'6! L! IN NILE!

muer mm runs a u u- 1.): most: at". a F

The M aricopa C oanty Regional Park system currently totals
83,185 acres of parkland for a rapidly expanding population.

$2.50 an acre, or to lease lands at 3.25 per acre per year
( see RECREATION, September 1961, Page 385 ). Very shortly
after this order was issued, the county received leases from
the Arizona oflice of the Bureau of Land Management on the
McDowell Mountain Regional Park site, a 17,648-acre site,
located fifteen miles northeast of Scottsdale, and on the 28,-
194 acres on the White Tank Mountain Regional Park, lo-
cated fifteen miles due west of Peoria. Soon thereafter, ad-
ditional leases were issued on the Estrella Mountain Regional
Park, an 18,574-acre site located twenty miles southwest of
Phoenix, and on the Usery Mountain Regional Park, a 3,048-
acre site, located fifteen miles northeast of Mesa; also 1,326
acres of federal land were leased to the county for the Lake
Pleasant Regional Park.

In addition, during 1961, the county acquired a 340-acre
urban park site in rapidly expanding Paradise Valley on a
lease from the state of Arizona, and also a 1,320-acre shoot-
ing range and recreation area, subleased from the Arizona
Game and Fish Department which holds leases on the area
from both the federal and state governments. This acreage,
coupled with 442 acres of county-owned lands, totals 83,185
acres of parklands currently within the Maricopa County

Regional Park system. Since the county has taken advantage
of the federal government’s policy of making such lands
available for recreation purposes, the present and future
citizens of Maricopa County are assured of one of the finest
regional park systems in the country. The board of super-
visors in cooperation with the Bureau of Land Management,
as a matter of policy, has continued hunting and fishing,
grazing, and other compatable supervised uses to the benefit
of all concerned. '

As might be expected, Maricopa County is purchasing a
section of federal land each year with the intention of even-
tually acquiring all the present leased lands in this manner.
Under present regulations, a fee of $1.00 per acre per year
is charged to all government agencies leasing state lands for
public purposes. Purchase of state lands by government
agencies is prohibitive since, under present rules, the lands
are sold at public auction to the highest bidder. At present
Maricopa County expends $14,137 per year for leasing state
lands, and $16,931 on federal lands, making a total of $31,-
068 spent annually on leasing fees. With Maricopa County’s
current population of seven hundred thousand expected to
reach two million by 1980, the importance of acquiring park
land now is obvious.

FIVE INGREDIENTS have been necessary which have allowed
the county to acquire the regional park system it has

today:

0 The preparation of a sound, comprehensive long-range

plan by a qualified agency such as the National Recreation

Association.

0 The involvement of lay citizens and community leaders

in the actual preparation of the plan.

0 A dedicated interest by thc Maricopa County Parks and

Recreation Commission in actively soliciting support for

implementing the final survey recommendations.

0 An awareness by the county board of supervisors of the

need for taking prompt action in filing applications on the

recommended federal and state sites.

0 Involvement of Bureau of Land Management oflicials in

an advisory capacity in the survey’s preparation, resulting

in their undertaking of the plan’s objectives, and thus, how

they could assist the local community in implementing the

survey recommendations. 

-———.“_

Recreation Demands on Public Water Supplies
Continued from Page 293

 

development of the community, and supplemental services,
these values may even outweigh the primary function as
a water supply source.

Many municipal water departments have difficulty selling
the need for improvements to their systems because people
come to expect good water at a price ridiculous to mention.
By narrowing their functions to just those of water supply,
these oflicials tend to isolate themselves from general
public support. From just a socio-political point of view,
the recreation use of reservoir properties could serve as

306

a valuable source of public relations and contribute to a
better understanding of total water problems by people
within a given community.

I recommend a realistic reappraisal by the water works
profession itself of the technological advances in its field
as they pertain to recreation uses. This serious study should
be undertaken in a fashion to reflect present trends through-
out the country, not just to echo the thinking in fashion
several decades ago. Unless the water works profession be-
comes more aware of the inconsistencies in its present poli-
cies and takes voluntary corrective action, it may shortly
face unilateral action which could swing the pendulum
towards a type of under-protection none of us would like

to see. #

RECREATION

F lood-Pl'ain Zoning

Provides Recreation Areas

that have been developed for housing, industry, and

commercial establishments have stimulated a nation-
wide interest in zoning of such areas against intensive de-
velopment. The need for such action was considered by the
Outdoor Recreation Resources Review Commission which
made the following recommendation in its recent report:
“Flood-plain zoning should be used‘whenever possible as
a method to preserve attractive reaches of rivers and streams
for public recreation.” In addition to the other benefits
from such zoning, the commission pointed out that Hood-
plain zoning can protect valleys from unsafe developments

P ROBLEMS resulting from the flooding of low-lying areas

and preserve natural areas; also that in many cases it may
be more economical and efficient from a public point of view
to restrict Hood-plain areas to purposes like outdoor recrea-
tion which require only limited development and which are
not frustrated by periodic floods.

The commission referred to the fact that several states
have recently urged the adoption of Hood-plain zoning in
high-Hood-risk areas along water courses in or near large
population centers. It cited the action of the state of Connect-
icut which has employed such zoning principles in redevelop-
ing areas devastated by the 1955 floods, some of which are
now used for various forms of outdoor recreation. Reference
was also made to studies of Hood-plain zoning undertaken
by the Tennessee Valley Authority and the University of
Chicago, which indicate that this regulatory mechanism
provides great potential for wider use of water courses and
their adjacent lands.

In a paper presented by Paul Oppermann at the 1962 Great
Lakes Recreation Conference, reference was made to the
Northeastern Illinois Flood Hazard Mapping Project initi-
ated by the Northeastern Illinois Metropolitan Area Plan-
ning Commission. Under this project, six metr0politan
counties and the US. Geological Survey are cooperating
in a five-year program of identifying and delineating the
lands subject to periodic Hoods in the metropolitan area.
The purpose of the project is to guide counties and munici-
palities in planning so that obstructive and vulnerable de-
velopments are not placed in the natural pathways of Hood-
ing streams. Much of the land within the Hood plains will
be made available for recreation.

THE Charlotte-Mecklenburg, North Carolina, Planning
Commission has adopted a proposal designed to fore-
stall Hood problems along the creeks in the city and county.
Unplanned deve10pment along two of the creeks has given

rise to problems which prompted the commission to take a
constructive step to forestall the creation of similar Hood

problems along other streams as intensive development ex-
tends out into the county. The commission believes that

its proposal is worthy of consideration by the city and

JUNE, 1962

county authorities as a matter that with further study might
prove to be a creative, workable, and effective policy. The
commission has outlined its significant pr0posal as follows:

“Studies would be made to outline on maps the lands
along the streams that are subject to Hooding. These studies
would be limited to those sections of the city and county that
are expected to develop into residential areas. It would be-
come the policy of the city and county that these lands should
remain open and undeve10ped. The policy would be carried
out in two ways. Through subdivision regulations, controls
would be adopted which would prevent the subdivision of
these lands for residential purposes. When a subdivision
involving any mapped Hood plain lands was presented for
approval, the portions of the subdivision involving Hood
lands would not be approved. The city or county would pur-
chase the Hood land to retain it in public ownership.

“Such a program would have many desirable results:
0 Flood plains along the streams are areas created by na-
ture for the storage of Hood water. It would preserve these
areas for their natural use.
0 It would eliminate the necessity for future flood control
projects.
0 It would avoid the random development of Hood lands
along the streams which results in some people needing
Hood protection while others do not. Where divergent in-
terests in Hood protection along a stream exist, it becomes
difficult or impossible to take any action that will meet the
conHicting needs and interests of streamside deve10pments.
0 It would create a tremendous community asset in the
form of publicly owned land that could be used for parks,
playgrounds, and open space.
0 Since the land would be purchased as the area about it
was being deve10ped with homes, park and playground areas
would be secured about at the rate that the growth of the
community created a need for them.
0 A substantial amount of Hood plain land has in the past
been given to the community for park purposes. If it be-
came a consistent policy of the governments to secure and
develop these lands for park purposes additional donations
of land might be encouraged.
0 Federal financial assistance in the cost of acquiring the
land would probably be available if the governing bodies
would prefer to have such assistance. Recent legislation by
Congress authorizes a thirty percent contribution to the cost
of acquiring land for local parks and open space.

“A major question, of course, is the probable cost of such
a program. While no dollar figures are available there are
available figures on the amount of land that might be in-
volved on an annual basis. During the last three years the
planning commission has approved subdivisions inside the
city that involved twenty-nine acres of Hood plain land. In
the same period of time it has approved subdivisions in the

307

(tulluh tl'ul inwlved fifty-one acres of flood plain land.
'1 has. 1‘ mr program outlined here had been in effect during
the last th] cc years, the city would have had to purchase
gln at t! 1 ac ‘es uf land a year and the county would have
'- ad -'0 purchase about seventeen acres a year.

“Such a program would help to keep the community a-
breast of its increasing need for park and recreation space
as new areas develop and the population increases. Stand-
ards of the National Recreation Association suggest that a
community should have ten acres of park and recreation

land for every one thousand people. On this basis the city
alone should have twenty-one hundred acres, whereas our
actual inventory is now 873 acres. According to planning
commission estimates, it is expected that there will be 216,-
000 additional people in the urban area of the county by
1980—creating a need for an additional 2,160 acres of park
and recreation areas. The acquisition and use of flood plains
for this purpose would not only enhance the community but

also help forestall difiicult problems that would be solved
only at substantial expense, if they could be solved at all.” if:

 

Across the River

Swim competition fosters international bonds

Harry Hollands and Stanley Stenek

L OCATED on opposite sides of the beautiful St. Clair
River, one of the connecting waterways of the St. Law-
rence Seaway, lie the cities of Port Huron, Michigan, and
Sarnia, Ontario. Seven years ago the Sarnia Jaycees con-
ceived the idea of a Cross River Swim competition. The
first few years the swim was sponsored by the originating
groups, with the help of the Sarnia merchants and the Sarnia
Recreation Department, but the main responsibility was in
the hands of the Sarnia Jaycees. Interest kept growing, in-
vitations were extended to cosponsor the annual event in
1958.

As the International Cross River Swim gained momen-
tum, the sponsors’ problems increased in proportion. Ama-
teur athletic codes, high school athletic codes, United States
and Canadian amateur standings, all had to be protected
so as not to innocently jeopardize some youngster’s amateur
standing. There were also those who were classified profes-
sionals and were interested only in cash awards. To accom-
modate both groups it was necessary to run two separate
races, with as many as five heats in some divisions. The
swim committees worked untiringly to solve these many
problems and to supply fifty escort and ofiicial boats. Any
person may take part, as long as he or she signs up before
the deadline and can show proof of a recent medical exam-
ination by his family physician or will consent to arrange-
ment being made for a physical. All swimmers must abide
by the age restriction rule; that is, being placed in the
proper division. Although it is not mandatory, swimmers
are asked to secure their own boat, coach, and indicate the
boat is provided with life jackets and safety equipment.

The swim event is held late in August usually, and both
sides of the St. Clair River are crowded with spectators.
Dignitaries from both countries are on hand in boats of
various sizes not only to give the event their ofiicial blessings
but to pull for their countrymen. The race starts from the

MR. HOLLANDS is director of youth activities for the Sarnia,

Ontario, Ianior Chamber of Commerce. MR. STENEK is sn-
perintendent of recreation in Port H aron, Michigan.

308

United States side (Port Huron) and terminates at Sarnia,
Ontario, a distance of about a mile and a half across the
international waterway. To add to the above problems,
shipping trach cannot be halted and heats must be run
during the intervals between ships, posing a difficult feat on
the world’s busiest waterway. Cooperation of the Coast
Guard, sheriff department, state police, immigration and cus-
tom authorities must be secured before the swim is finalized.

These many obstacles would perhaps write a quick finale
to such an event; but the wholehearted cooperation of thc
Sarnia J aycecs, Port Huron Recreation Department, and the
many citizens of the two countries has made this an annual
affair for the past seven years.

L AST YEAR, some six thousand spectators lined the banks
of the starting point and finishing line as some forty-
two swimmers from Sarnia, Port Huron, and other Michi-
gan and Ontario cities pitted their skill against the strong
five-mile-per-hour current. It is only through observance of
all safety measures and maximum control of swimmers and
escort boats that there have been no accidents to date.

The event has gained so much interest and attention that
it is climaxcd with an awards banquet of the day of the
swim. The mayors from both cities are represented along
with heads of federal governments from both the United
States and Canada. They are there not only to praise their
contestants and the event but to present the ofiicial awards.
As a result of the wide interest, both mayors have pledged
to establish an international trophy to be held each year by
the country holding the most points. The trophy is designed
with the famous Blue Water Bridge which connects the two
countries. The awards dinner is alternated between the two
countries.

Both Sarnia and Port Huron are proud of the Interna-
tional Cross River Swim, not only as a great sporting event,
but because it exemplifies the splendid cooperation of inter-
national neighbors in solving many problems that could not

be resolved alone. #

RECREATION

 

Sailing in Quincy Bay

An aquatic recreation program of life-long value

Lawrence P. Creedon

THE FIRST MEN-
TION of Mer-
rymount in Ameri-
can history con-
cerned a group of
riotous and adven-
turous men who
used the saltwater
inlet, located in the bay of Quincy,
Massachusetts,’ as the scene of merry-
making. These pleasure seekers so in-
curred the wrath of settlers in nearby
Plymouth colony that Captain Myles
Standish was dispatched with a group
of soldiers to suppress the frolicking.
Three hundred years have passed,

but Merrymount still exists and still
connotates what its name implies: a

 

place of enjoyment. However, soldiers
are no longer needed to keep order as

 

MR. CREEDON, a Quincy, Massachusetts
school teacher, is a lieutenant (senior-

grade) in the Naval Reserve and has

been employed part-time and seasonally
by the Quincy Recreation Commission

in various capacities since 1948. He
has been the department’s supervisor

of boating and sailing since 1959.
JUNE, 1962

the riotous times of the past have been
replaced by an aquatic recreation pro-
gram of life-long value.

The boating and sailing program of
the Quincy Recreation Commission is
located on the shores of Merrymount
and it is here that Quincy youngsters
between the ages of eight and sixteen
are rendered an opportunity during the
spring and summer months to become
proficient in the skills of boating, sail-
ing, and seamanship.

Quincy is a city with twenty-seven
miles of shoreline and its ninety thou-
sand inhabitants have always been en-
thusiastic for the water. In recognition
of the natural environment, the recrea-
tion commission provides, in addition
to the sailing program, swimming in-
struction for beginners through senior
life-saving at eleven beach locations
and water-skiing instruction to those
holding a Red Cross Junior Life Saving
Certificate. Chairman of the commis-
sion is Fred Foye, sports editor of the
Boston Traveler.

In 1950, the boating and sailing pro-
gram was inaugurated by the recrea-
tion commission and was placed under

the guidance of former Recreation Su-
pervisor General William Boyer. At
that time, it consisted of but two sail-
boats, one instructor, and a few score
youngsters. During the decade of the
fifties the commission, with the coop-
eration of Mayor Amelio Della Chiesa,
developed the program until it now
comprises a fleet of twenty-eight boats,
a staff of seven, and more than four
hundred young sailors under instruc-
tion.

As visualized by Director of Recrea-
tion William F. Ryan, the boating and
sailing program is aimed at introduc-
ing youngsters to boating, thoroughly
acquainting them with safety proce-
dures afloat, and making them profi-
cient in elementary sailing skills. It is
not intended that accomplished and
polished sailors will graduate from the
program, but rather that interest will
be stimulated and basic skills mastered,
along with widening the horizon of
leisure-time activity.

THE INSTRUCTION PHASE of the pro-
gram is divided into four levels:
Basic Seaman, Beginner Sailor, Inter-

309

mediato Sailor, and Junior Leader.

efr “e a youngster is admitted to the
pro; am he must pass a qualifying
swimming test given by a recreation
commission swimming instructor. The
swimming instructors are all certified
by the Red Cross.

The program from Basic Seaman
through Junior Leader is designed to
take three summers for completion;
however, a youngster may enter any
phase of the program if he shows pro-
ficiency in prerequisite skills. A Red
Cross certificate of satisfactory comple-
tion is awarded at the successful con-
clusion of each portion of the program.

The Basic Seaman phase is designed
to familiarize youngsters who have had
no prior boating experience with safety
precautions afloat, with proper han-
dling of a rowboat and with necessary
knot-tying skills. Classes at this level
are limited to twenty-five and are held
three times a week for ninety-minute
sessions. The period of instruction is
divided between lectures and demon-
strations given on the beach, and prac-
tical application afloat. After comple-
tion of twelve hours of instruction the
basic seaman is given a written and
practical evaluation and then moves on
to Beginner Sailor.

In Beginner Sailor, the young en—
thusiast is introduced to the sailboat
where all instruction is given in a four-
teen-boat fleet of ten-foot Turnabouts.
Classes of twenty-five meet three times
a week for periods of two hours dura—
tion. Again, the class time is split be-
tween discussion ashore and sailing. At
this level the youngster becomes famil-
iar with boat nomenclature, proper care
of equipment, and rules of the nautical
road. Basic sailing skills such as tack-
ing, running, and reaching are also in-
troduced along with mooring and dock-
ing procedures. Naturally, emphasis on
safety afloat continues at this and all
levels.

FOR THE FIRST several times afloat

the new sailor is accompanied by
a more experienced Junior Leader, but
as the novice gains in proficiency he
begins to function as skipper with class-
mates serving as crew. At no time are
beginners allowed to sail alone and, at
all times and at every level, each person
in a boat must wear a US. Coast Guard

310

approved life preserver or not go out.

As a Beginner Sailor, the youngster
is allowed to sail and practice his skills
for as long as he likes. There is no max-
imum time limit set on when he must
move out of the beginner category. In
practice, most youngsters are ready to
move into an intermediate group by the
end of the first summer. At the end of
the beginner phase many youngsters
terminate their association with the pro-
gram and orientate their interests to-
ward one of Quincy’s six yacht clubs,
the family boat, and the summer racing
season in Quincy Bay.

However, a large number of gradu-
ate beginners move into the intermedi-

 

ate category where the emphasis can
follow one of three avenues depending
upon the participant’s interest. Oppor-
tunity is provided for pleasure sailing,
for further mastery in the skills, for
further mastery in the skills, or an in-
troduction to sailboat racing.

Intermediates meet for an hour and
a half each day and the program is or-
ganized to last one full summer. Dur-
ing the experience the now somewhat
skillful sailor is encouraged to indicate
an interest in the Junior Leader pro-
gram. This is a small group of mature,
responsible teenagers who have demon-
strated a deep interest in the program
and participate daily. Exceptional in-
termediates are recommended for J un-
ior Leader consideration by the instruc-
tional staff.

JUNIOR LEADER in training is as-
signed to an instructor and he is
expected to aid the staff member with

beginner instruction. The prOSpective
Junior Leader is also assigned a Turn-
about for which he is responsible as to
its cleanliness and seaworthiness. This
is his boat and it is entered in weekly
competition for seaworthiness with the
boats of other Junior Leaders. Along
with these duties, the Junior Leader at-
tends class for one hour per day where
advanced racing techniques are dis-
cussed. One afternoon a week is set
aside for the Junior Leaders to race the
recreation commission fleet and engage
in intra-program competition. The cul-
minating activity for the Junior Leader
is the opportunity to represent the com-
mission in the annual Quincy Bay Race
Week and to compete with young skip-
pers from other New England yacht
clubs that are members of the Quincy
Bay and National Turnabout Associa-
tions.

At present, the recreation commis-
sion maintains an instruction staff of
seven to operate the boating and sailing
program. One week prior to the open-
ing of the season, the staff meets for a
pre-season workshOp in order to assure
the success of the program and that the
aims are understood by all concerned.
Several of the instructors received their
early training as participants, went on
to become outstanding sailors, and have
returned to work in the program while
completing college studies. Both men
and women are on the staff. In recent
years, two instructors, Ronald Geddes
and Kerry Foye, have distinguished
themselves as National and State Turn-
about Champions. Several other in-
structors are graduates of the Red
Cross Small Craft School. Tuition and
expenses involved in enrolling in the
course have been met by the Quincy
Chapter of the American National Red
Cross and the Quincy Lodge of Elks.

The curriculum used in all levels of
the program has been developed by
Senior Instructor Isabel Howe, Mr.
Ryan, and the author. In order to main-
tain a logical sequence in the presenta-
tion of skills, detailed lesson plans have
been made available to each instructor.
In that way, skill development follows
a progressive pattern, yet each class
within each level is free to develop and
master the skills at differing rates of
speed and set its own pace.

Continued on. Page 314

RECREATION

@PROGRAM

 

Ben Maggio

AN EXPERIMENT
in baseball in-
struction for the
young inexperi-
enced beginner
has led to a series
of innovations and
a new Minor
hague setup in Bound Brook, New
Jersey. The experiment, approved at a
meeting of the director and coaches,
was begun among the youngest group
of players, boys aged eight to twelve.

 

Basically, it places the young boys in
a lower league classification, with em-
phasis on instruction, removing many
of the impossible situations that con-
front an eight- or nine-year-old in an
official game of baseball.

Following the registration of players
a tryout period involving all players
and managers went into operation for
a week. The main purpose of the try-
out was to rate and classify the boys
according to ability and experience.
At the conclusion of the tryouts, a meet-
ing of all managers was held, and the
boys were individually assigned either
to the A or B League. The A League
was comprised of boys who rated
higher in ability, consisting primarily
of the ten-, eleven-, and twelve-year-
olds. Boys who did not rate very high
were assigned to the B League, were
eight- and nine-year-olds.

The A League consisted of four teams
and played a regular schedule. The B
League operated primarily as a league
clinic and utilized a set of special rules
designed to promote learning. The
greatest change is the use of the team
managers as the pitchers. Each coach
pitches to his own boys and does his
best to allow them to hit. Knowing the
ability of each of his players, the coach
can vary his pitching accordingly.

The rules provide for no base on

MR. MAGGIO is director of recreation in
Bound Brook, New Jersey.

JUNE, 1962

A way to bring baseball fun

   to Little League rejects

balls or called strikes. A boy has to go
up to swing and is allowed three swing-
ing strikes. Experience in previous sea-
sons had shown that a small boy, who
could hardly hold a bat, facing a big
twelve-year-old pitcher who could throw
hard, would just stand at the plate and
hope for a base on balls, knowing that
was the only way me could h0pe to get
on base. No walks plus pitching de-
signed to be hit has removed this situa-
tion from the B League.

The problem arose as to whether the
adult pitcher should field balls hit back
to him. This was solved by adding a
new position to the team in the field—
a fielding pitcher. This is filled by a

 

youngstcr who stations himself next to
the pitcher and fields anything that
comes his way.

The Spirit of instruction rather than
competition prevails in the B loop. The
league is primarily a clinic for the
teaching of the game. Coaches are sta-
tioned throughout the field and on the
benches to explain the proper move in
each play which arises during the
game. The instruction is given such
emphasis that coaches switch teams and

give help wherever it may be needed.

No coach is permanently attached to
a given team. He has a team assigned
to him only for organizational and con-
tacting purposes. The coaches are as-
signed to a designated field. The teams
report for play and are with that coach
only for that day. The advantages of
this procedure is that the coaches get
to know and work with all the boys,
and, by not being permanently attached
to one given team, they are less apt to
build up any false values and make win-
ning games the prime objective.

During the course of the season,
coaches from both leagues meet to eval-
uate the progress of the boys. If a boy
has improved sufficiently to warrant
transfer to the A League, he is then
moved up. On the other hand, a boy
in the A League can be sent to the B
League if it is felt he needs more in-
struction and individual help.

The recreation committee’s Minor
League baseball is comprised of young-
sters rejected by the Little League and
others who choose the lower classifica-
tions. In both divisions all players on
the fifteen-man squads get into the
game an equal amount of time. The
program this year had one hundred and
twenty boys participating with sixty in
each division. The coaches have noted
very little apathy and absenteeism, cred-
iting the innovations with the intereSt
being shown by the players.

The informality of the program has
stimulated the volunteering of men who
have the ability, personality, and pa-
tience to handle youngsters but would
hesitate to work in a highly competitive
program. The youngsters have shown
a great deal of improvement. They are
playing under a system that reduces the
tensions and anxieties built up under a
highly competitive program, and they
are playing in a program where instruc-
tion and learning is more important
than winning games. #

311

@ PROGRAM

 

MUSIC UNDER
THE REDWOODS

San Mateo, California, is successful

Matt C. Thiltgen
“" FOR A NUMBER

OF YEARS the
recreation depart-
ment in San Ma-
teo, California, felt
that its
program activities
needed expansion
and sought an “extra something” to
make them more appealing to a larger
group of possible participants than the
customary dance, art, or music activi-
ties. The idea of combining music and
camping seemed to offer a possible an-
swer, but how could a municipal de-
partment undertake such an ambitious
venture involving many cost commit-
ments without assurance of the neces-
sary number of registrations?

  

cultural

After three or four years of consider-
ing and analyzing the idea, but repeat-
edly sidetracking it because of the risks
involved, the music coordinator for the
high school district, who was whole-
heartedly in support of the scheme, and
the recreation superintendent, who had
advanced it, decided that “nothing ven-
tured, nothing gained” and took steps
to inaugurate a music camp program
during the summer of 1960. The music
camp program in no way replaces a
playground program nor the general
music program held during the summer
within our city.

For this initial venture the program
was limited to high-school students and
to one week. Professional staff for the
activity proved to be the simplest prob-
lem as enthusiasm for the project was
so high among the high-school music
teachers that eight offered to serve for
a minimum stipend, or even gratis if

 

MR. THILTGEN is superintendent of rec-
reation in San Mateo, California.

312

in establishing a music camp

necessary, to get the program started.

Finding a suitable site appeared to
be a bit more difficult, but even that
proved to be relatively simple after a
few inquiries. The San Francisco
YMCA became equally enthusiastic
over the prospects of such a program
and offered on a bare-cost basis the
facilities of its permanent mountain
camp located at La Honda in the heart
of the Santa Cruz Mountains and the

famous California redwoods, just
thirty-five miles from San Mateo. The
board of trustees of the high-school dis-
trict made available instruments, mu-
sic, and similar equipment free of
charge and buses were provided at cost.

RESPONSE to the program was imme-
diate and heavy. A local organi-
zation of patrons offered a number of
“camperships” and the music depart-
ments of several of the schools did
likewise, with the result that the first
music camp opened with an enrollment
of 111 high-school students. In addi-
tion to the professional music staff of
eight, three professional recreation
leaders were also assigned to the pro-
gram.

Each day was divided into two parts,
with the musical activities in the morn-
ings and recreation programs in the
afternoons. The evenings provided a
combination with such features as im-
promptu parties, dancing, group sing-
ing, musical games, and popular music
ensemble presentations. The more for-
mal aspects of the music program in-
cluded band, orchestra, chorus, har-
mony, conducting, dance band, indi-
vidual instrument study, and section
clinics.

The recreation program offered
swimming, volleyball, softball, table

tennis, crafts, table games, and social
recreation. The highlight of the week’s
activities occurred on the closing day,
Sunday, when parents and friends of
the campers, numbering more than
four hundred, attended a barbecue
luncheon and then enjoyed an open-
air program consisting of band and
orchestra numbers, a group of choral
presentations, and an original operetta.

WITH THE success of this “first”
stimulating us to a “bigger and
better” camp, plans were laid for the
1961 season. It was decided that the
second season should also be available
to seventh- and eighth-graders, but that
they should be served independently.
So a two-week program was planned
for 1961, the first week being given
over to the younger group and the sec-
ond weck again being restricted to
high-school students.

The cost to the participant is $35.00
per week, which includes all meals,
housing, insurance, musical instruc-
tion, recreation activities, transporta-
tion to the camp, and all supplies and
materials. The patrons’ group in-
creased the number of its “camper-
ships” so that one was available to
every high-school and intermediate
school in the area, plus three for the
discretionary use of the music director
—a total of seventeen in all!

Once again, the response was tre-
mendous, with one hundred signing up
for the first weck and one hundred and
seventy enrolling for the high-school
session. Most of the first year’s partici-
pants returned for the second year and
the entire professional music staff re-
turned of its own volition. The Y ad-
ministration immediately askcd about

our plans for 1962 and future years and
is now considering the ercction of a
permanent stage and bandshell and
seating for approximately one thousand
under the trees.

The San Mateo Department makes
no claim to originality in this program
and knows that others exist, but it is
one not too many municipal depart-
ments offer. On the basis of the experi-
ence of two seasons, “La Honda Music
Camp” as it has been named, bids well
to become a widely recognized program
in the field of youth music. #-

RECREATION

        

   

JIIIII
IIIIIIII

   

TURNING DUST IN TO SPRA Y

the Texas Panhandle is becoming the heart

Doyle W. Henry

ACK IN THE EARLY TIIIRTIES—
B water-sport enthusiasts would
say —- unenthusiastically —-— that
Amarillo, Texas, in the heart of the
Panhandle, had some of the finest boat-
ing in the nation. “Just drive one thou-
sand miles in any direction” was the
satirical punch line.

Thirty years ago it was inconceivable
to most people in the Panhandle of
Texas that the perennial dust in their
eyes could ever be replaced by the spray
from an outboard motor. Before the
War Between the States, an army cap-
tain touring the Panhandle declared
that man could not survive in this arid
region. Today, it is one of the wealth-
iest sections of one of our wealthiest
states. . . .

What was lacking in the dust bowl
days of the past is now present in
abundance—namely, water. It can be
found in literally thousands of irriga-

Digested from Outboard Boating, Sep-
tember-October 1961.

JUNE, 1962

RECREATION

DIGEST

Once surrounded by prairie wilderness,

of a waterways paradise for boaters

tion wells and dozens of lakes which dot
the Golden Spread. With an average
temperature of fifty-eight degrees in the
area, the Panhandle boating and fish-
ing season is almost ten months long.
Even in January such events as mara-
thon boat racing and skiing contests are
held. Moderate climate, with cool eve-
nings even in the hottest summer
months, has proved irresistible to thou-
sands of visitors, many of whom be-
come residents. Amarillo now boasts a
population of over 137,000.

The Panhandle of Texas is a long
strip of land between New Mexico on
the west and Oklahoma on the north
and west. The wide well-paved high-
ways that crisscross these plains can
take the boating family quickly to Lake
Conchas, New Mexico, 150 miles due
west, or to Lake Altus, Oklahoma, 180

miles due east. Perhaps to some East-
erners these distances may seem unusu-
ally long to travel for a weekend of
water sport, but most boaters of the
Plains feel it is easier to drive five hun-

dred miles in the Panhandle than to
edge along a hundred miles in more
densely populated states.

For instance, last year Lake Conchas
attracted more than four hundred thou-
sand visitors—most of them from the
sprawling Panhandle. Visiting anglers
brought home walleye, black bass,
crappie, blue gill, and catfish. Skiers
brought back golden tans and memo-
ries of an exhilarating sport and an ea-
gerness to return as soon as possible. i

All this occurred in an area that was
once arid wilderness. In the thirties the
Conchas Dam was built on the Cana-
dian River, forming a reservoir which
is now referred to as Lake Conchas. It
is located thirty miles west of Tucum-
cari, New Mexico.

The natural beauty of the surround-
ing terrain and the precipitous cliffs
that enclose the cool, clear waters of
Conchas make it on outboarder’s uto-
pia. The number of boats moored there
011 one weekend is no doubt greater
than any caravan of covered wagons

313

 :..~.- I-: —  _ \

Palo Duro Canyon, a paleontological wonderland, was cre-
ated by water erosion forming the earth into fantastic shapes.

that rolled by this once desolate land.
Many families leave their boats moored
on Conchas so that they merely have to
drive to and from the lake. However,
thousands of other boaters trail their
outboard runabouts or cruisers to and
from the reservoir a half dozen times
a year or more.

This boating activity is being re-
peated on lakes and man-made reser-
voirs in and around the Texas Panhan-
dle. Even fewer trailer miles are needed
to travel from Amarillo to reach popu-
lar Lake Buffalo thirty miles southwest
of the city, or Lake McClellan, sixty
miles to the east, or Lake Rita Blanca,
near the northern tip of the state.

Just ten minutes drive southeast from
Amarillo is scenic Palo Duro Canyon.

Sailing in Quincy Bay

Continued from Page 310

 

AS A RESULT of popular interest in
sailing, a parent class was begun a
few years ago and continues to grow
each year. The parents, predominately
young mothers, come one afternoon a
week. The same entrance requirements
are placed on them as on the young-
sters. The adults must pass the swim-
ming test and must wear a life preserver
whenever afloat. Much of the instruc-
tion is rendered on an individual basis
and the parent frequently finds herself

314

 

The route follows a Hat endless plain
that stretches out interminably, until it
suddenly turns into a wonderland for
paleontology, the study of prehistoric
forms of life by means of plant and ani-
mal fossils. Of more interest to modern
water sport enthusiasts is the fact that
the Palo Duro Canyon is being devel-
Oped for more boating and fishing ac-
tivities. Plans call for extensive moor-
ings and launching facilities.

Future boating in the Panhandle will
be even better with the completion in
1966 of a giant man-made lake on the
Canadian River. Envisioned for over
four decades, it will
through an aqueduct system to eleven

furnish watcr

cities, some nearly two hundred miles
away. Construction cost will exceed

taking lessons from her Junior Leader
son or daughter. Periodically through-
out the season, parent-child races are
held with the younger member of the
family usually serving as skipper.
Nautical Day, held each year just
prior to Labor Day, concludes the sum-
mer season. All participants take part
in a variety of racing events and dem-
onstrations of newly acquired skills.
Rowing and sailing races, parent-child
races, knot-tying exhibitions, rigging
drills, mooring exercises, and forma-
tion sailing are some of the events that
round out the day’s program. Red

 

Popular Lake Buffalo, thirty miles southwest of Amarillo,
attracts thousands of boaters with runabouts and cruisers.

$100,000,000 and will pay for itself
with the sale of water to participating
cities. The dam will be sixty-five hun-
dred feet long and will back up water
to within twenty miles of Amarillo. The
lake itself will be more than thirty miles
long. When full, its capacity will be
more than one million acre feet. Fish-
ery biologists and geologists claim this
new lake will offer fishing equal to the
best in the country.

When this forty-year-old dream lake
faced the realistic light of day as a vet-
ing issue, it was passed by an over-
whelming majority of twenty-eight to
one. This illustratcs the keen interest
in reservoirs and eager enthusiasm for

water sport by the people of the Golden
Spread. #

Cross certificates of satisfactory com-
pletion are awarded to all qualifying
youngsters, and Junior Teacher awards
are made to those outstanding youths
who complete the requirements.

After Nautical Day has passed and
the youngsters have had an opportunity
to demonstrate their agility to family
and friends, they return to one final
lesson in boat care. Sails are hauled
down for the last time, all boats are
carefully lifted from the sea, thorough-
ly washed in fresh water, scrapcd free
of marine life and stored for the winter

months. if:

RECREATION

 

I When it comes to men and tools,
Charles S. Collins, park supervisor in
the Douglas County, Oregon, Parks De-
partment had the following to offer fel-
low park men at a county park confer-
ence (Mr. Collins is also president of
the County Parks Association of Ore-
gon):

“You are lucky to be in the park field
because men like to work on parks. We
personally like older men, from 45 to
70, especially for hand work. Younger
men are better machine operators. Pick
them with broad experience in the me-
chanical fields. Farmers, garage me-
chanics, service-station hands, and car-
penters are all good. It is real handy to
have each man with a special skill. For
instance, Tom is a good gardener, Kirk
a good auto mechanic, and Ralph is
skilled at timber felling, trimming, et-
cetera. It is probably better to have
your crew on an hourly basis. All of
these “mechanically minded” men in-
variably have homes or outside projects
and we give them the time off they need
———at no cost to the county, of course.

“Don’t tell them how to clean a table
or toilet—-—show them. Check on their
work once in a while, but don’t call
them on the carpet for correction of a
list of minor deficiencies—go work with
them for a day. We use a maintenance
checklist. It will help you to promptly
correct deficiencies and save you a lot
of park inspection travel.

“We should say a word about tools.
Remember, labor is the most costly sin-
gle item in park maintenance. Cood
tools can go a long way toward cutting
down this cost. The following tools are
required for regular cleaning of tables,
stoves, and toilets which probably con-
sumes about half of total maintenance:
F or tables: three-gallon bucket, water
and disinfectant cleaner, dairy brush,
and squeegee.

For toilets: three-gallon bucket (not the
same bucket as for tables), water and
disinfectant, O-Cedar sponge mop,
dairy brush, and broom.

F or stoves: broom, square-point shovel,
and lawn broom.

F or trash cans: spray of insecticide.

 

MR. TODD is acting field director of the
National Recreation Association.

J UNE, 1962

Arthur Todd

For general grounds cleanup: pick-up
stick, shoulder bag, and lawn broom.”

I Big Cain———Less Strain: The city of
Fredericksburg, Virginia, expects to
save considerably in the cost of refuse
collection and disposal with paper gar-
bage bags. The bags eliminate the car-
rying of the cans to the curl) and return-
ing them to their place. The bags are
pulled out of the can, a new bag is put
in, and the old, garbage-filled bag is
carried to the truck for disposal. The
savings are expected to result from
speeding up collections and reducing
manpower. Since the collection crews
will no longer handle metal cans, it is
expected that the work will be less fa-
tiguing and will result in fewer injuries
to crew members. The duplex garbage
bags, measuring 22”-by-22”~by-8”, are
made of wet-strength, water-repellent
paper. It is hoped that the system also
will result in fewer odors, be more san-
itary, and be far less sloppy.

I In the early years of a tree’s life,
great restraint in pruning is advised by
V. T. Stoutemyer of the Department of
Floriculture and Ornamental Horticul-
ture at the University of California,
writing in Park Maintenance (Febru-
ary 1962). He has seen overpruning of
young trees greatly delay their develop-
ment. With many trees tending to weak
trunks, he has eliminated the need of
staking by permitting growth virtually
as a bush—for a time. Many troubles
observed by Dr. Stoutemyer resulted
from premature pruning of lower
branches. It was necessary to head back
those not intended as permanent frame-
work branches.

Some trees normally deep rooting or
tap rooted tended to develop shallow
root systems when grown near greens,
tees, or other turfgrass with frequent
watering. Thus, the trees competed with
the grass for nutrients and water. the
result being the constant expense of me-
chanical or chemical root pruning.
Other tree planting which earned the
rating of mistakes were those suscepti-
ble to iron chlorosis in locations of alka—
line soils or with irrigation waters of
undesirable qualities. By cruising a
local area and talking with experienced
tree-men, the choice of chlorosis-sus-
ceptible trees could be avoided. if:

 

   
  
 
  

; SUperi r Design,
' » Cons uction and
PERFORMANCE

'far greater
" strength and
S A F E T Y !

PLAYG R0 U N D
AND SWIMMING

POOL EQUIPMENT

The wise choice of experienced
buyers for nearly half a century.

WRITE FOR LITERATURE
- _. .JF‘_-—_.. .

éAN

“um... 1;- mm»..-

AME I

PLAYGROUND DEVICE CD.
ANDERSON, INDIANA, U.S.A.

won-0's moss! manurac‘rueerzs or me
PARK, F‘tNIC. PtAYGROUND, wmmwe
Poor. mo oarssmc noon EQUIPMEN

 
  
    
 
   
       
   
       
   
         
     

 
 

- Low Cost/Growing
Sport Programs for
Both Men and Women

 
 

For club, class or team. Requires
minimum space and equipment.
Exciting and practical for few or
many participants. National and
International associations.
Castello uniforms are KADOKAN
APPROVED. Specially made for
the taller American figure.

FENClNG TOO! We are the

largest importers and manufactur-
ers of fencing equipment in the
Americas.

Write for Free Catalogs

CASTELLO

JUDO/KARATE 8. FENCING EQUIPMENT
30 E. 10th St., N. Y. 3, N. Y. since 1914

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 315

  

For further information regarding any of the products
discussed below, simply circle its corresponding key num-
ber on coupon on facing color page and mail to us.

0 A new multi-purpose service building can be used at the
entrance of parks, swimming pools, or other facilities where
tickets are collected or participants check through. Can also
serve as information booths or toll stations. The unit would
also make an interesting rainy-day shelter on the play-
ground. Available in three sizes and a host of weatherproof
enameled colors, the house features a laminated wall sys-
tem with 16-gauge, porcelain-enameled steel panels bonded
to quarter-inch plywood. Colors for the new shelter house
include ten exterior porcelain hues and three shades of vinyl
for the interior. Available in three sizes 4’-by-4~’, 4’-by-6’
and 4’-by-8’. Sliding doors are standard on all but the small-
est model, sliding windows are featured. Electrical wiring,
interior lighting, and an electrical plug-in strip around the
interior perimeter are included. For further information,

circle #100.

O Diamond-engraving 011 glass is
a rich art that now can be enjoyed
by even the very young or artisti-
cally inexperienced. No chemicals
or electricity are required; the
tools and materials are uncompli-
cated and inexpensive; and the re-
sults can be original and sometimes
breathtaking. Glasses, ashtrays,
decanters, vases can be engraved
with an inexpensive diamond tool
that looks like a ballpoint pen. More
exoerienced artists can create in-
tricate sketches on plate glass which can be mounted and
effectively illuminated with indirect lighting. The engrav-
ing tool has an aluminum shank with a small diamond as
the point. The diamond point cuts the design into the glass
surface. Printed pictures and printed lettering can also
be used as patterns. Paint or gilt can be rubhed into the
scribe lines for color. The diamond in the tool is shaped
so that either thick or thin lines can be obtained. For
further information, circle #101.

 

0 No tokens or wooden nickels are forthcoming from a
vending machine which can be preset to vend any of six
combinations of change for a dollar bill. An electronic
bill selector provides protection against counterfeit bills
or printed matter other than legitimate United States cur-
rency. The machine operates on a standard 100 to 125
volts AC 60-cycle current. It scans the bill and returns the
change within three to four seconds. Quadruple locks and
a built-in burglar alarm provide protection against van-
dalism. An optional insurance policy is also available on
the machine and up to $250 in money content. The ma-
chine may be mounted on a wall, stand, or post or recessed

316

  

into a wall or custom enclosure. For further information,
circle #102.

0 An international treasure trove.

Are you looking for party decora- U;- W
tions and accessories, program 23 WW
aids, activities with an internation-  t“;
al zest? Africa, Latin America, In- Q3!” ‘
dia, Pakistan, Ceylon, Japan, and » guy
the Middle East are among the re- ’l l“
gions whose culture and art set the "WW
tone for puzzlemats, lovely minia- a,
ture. flags, brilliant cutout, foldout a \u
. . . (.m/
anlmals, mobiles, napklns, party hut/9:"

favors, notepaper, moccasin wear-
ing ceremony, making of Indian
friendship bracelets, invitations, program covers. Cata-
logues and leaflets describe these exciting, multi-use aids.
For further information, circle #103.

0 Have a Chic-nic picnic. Grade A frying chicken, fully
cooked and cured like ham, resembles ham and tastes like
either ham or smoked fish. This delicious food product is
packaged in polyethylene printed bags for camps, trips,
picnics, etcetera. An excellent addition to fisherman’s or
hunter’s meals, it keeps well for a reasonable time without
refrigeration. An instruction sheet accompanies your or-
der to tell the most flavorful ways to prepare Chic-nic. For
more information, circle #104.

0 Serious erosion problems
can be solved by installation
of a sheet piling drywall. 111
a Michigan camp, the dry-
wall replaced an older
method of placing logs at
short intervals on the eroding
slope, which was sand. Sheet-
. metal piling was driven into
 I , .- the hillside with a portahle
 ' " air hammer, leaving a pro-

"- jection of four to live feet.
Dead manned to logs driven into the sand about six feet
behind the piling, the wall was capped with 2”-by-8” oak
planks and backlilled. This particular piling was installed
manually by the camp director and a local contractor. After
six years the piling has controlled the soil shifting almost
100 percent even after the hill has been used as an im-
promptu sliding pond by camp youngsters. For further in-
formation on dry walls to solve your erosion problems, cir-

cle #105.

 

o A barometer with no mercury is a safe aid in nature and
science programs. It utilizes a harmless chemical formula
instead of mercury. Kit includes barometer and holder,
barometric scale, indicator liquid, dropper, and six-page
folder on weather. For further information circle #106.

RECREATION

 

yMDEX 0F ADVERTISERS

   

Page

 I. Root -- - 320

I“ émerican Playground Device - 315
Blall-Boy -. - Inside Front Cover

' B:liggs Management _- 277
I Burgess Publishing 321
éaslello Fencing. Judo 8. Karate _ 315
lllassified Advertising _. _ ___- _.-_ 326
{Jimco-Gray - - ...........  298
.‘Emblem and Badge --._______ Inside Back Cover
I'liarm Vacations     -  __ 319
Galloway Friendship Tours ..-._--__ 3245
Gold Medal Products  277
Greenwich Book Publishers -_-__.1.-.__-__.- 282
Gregory Kilns  322
Hillerich & Bradsby  -- Inside Back Cover
Honda Associates  320
Hoppy-Taw ................................ ._.. 275
.1. E. Burke --.__._.---_-.---_--__-___--_.m-.._..__ 279
Kemper Tools .. ....................... _._ 320
Maintenance, Inc.  321
Monroe Company __---_____._._.____--..._1-__--- 319
National Federation of Music Clubs ....... -- 319
National Studios  282. 320
Porter Sargent  Inside Front Cover
8A5  321
Sico Products  Inside Front Cover
T. F. Twardzik -_    282
World Wide Games _ ................ --  277

@

TRADE MART®

 

FREE AIDS

Here are catalogues, brochures, films, booklets, services available,
samples, and so on to help the recreation leader. Circle on the cou-
pon the number of any item about which you. want more information.

 

EQUIPMENT AND MAINTENANCE

Foe MERMAIDS AND manners. Scuba and skin-
diving equipment——non-tear exposure suits,
foot fins, face masks, oxygen tanks, spear
guns, weight belts, cmcrgency floats, etcetera.
For full catalogue of cquipment, circle 11515110.

USE IT FIFTEEN WAYS. Florida pier-boat is a
4’-hy-8' plywood platform mountcd on two fi»
herglass pontoons. By using various piping,
aluminum channel stock, motor, etcetera, it
can he used as a single boat for fishing, hunt-
ing, or heating. With two or more units at-
tached together, it serves as a diving platform,
transport barge, and floating stage. It can also
be converted into a sailboat or bicycle hoat.
On land it can he used as a trailer, a sleeper,
picnic table, Ping-pong tahle, and workhench.
Add runners and use it as a sleigh or ice boat.
For further information, circle #111.

SWIMULATOR. New device supplements actual
swimming lessons. Out-of-water swim aid
strengthens those parts of the hody which are
most important for incrcasing swimmer's per-
formance in the water. Pulling forces in ma-
chine are constant just as in water. Loading
chart of recommended weights proportioned
to swinnner’s weight. Water-pulling require-
mcnts included with each unit along with
recommended workout schedule to supple-
ment pool training. For further information,

circle #112.

Unosnwarsa oassnvsnon wmnows are fea-
tured, in addition to other pool cquipment and
accessories, in illustrated thirty-two-page cat-
alogue. Concrete diving towers and a new fam-
ily of watcr conditioners are also highlighted.
For cepy, circle #113.

Cosrs LESS PER YEAR than any other pool, say
the manufacturers of all-aluminum swimming
pool. Warranted to end rust, cracks, and
leaks. Good for indoor installation bccause of
lightweight and leakproof construction. For
details, circle #114.

FOR SWIMMING POOL sarsrvma new-type re-
suscitator comes equipped with a non-re-
hreathing valve and self-inflating bag for air.
It is also availahle for oxygcn-air mixture.
Simple to use . . . saves vital seconds that of-
ten mean the ditiercnce between life and
death. No assemhly or connections to clectric-
ity or compressed gases. For complete infor-
mation, circle #115.

END POOL ALGAE PROBLEMS with chcmical
compound for use in hoth filtered and unfil-
tered pools, indoors or out. For maximum
efiectiveness, use in conjunction with chlorine
or hromine. This chemical is odorless, taste-
less, harmless. No eye irritation or suit dis-
coloration. For information on this and other
swimming pool aids, circle #116.

REVISED LIST of floor finishing products, lab-
oratory tested and approved, includes hoth
penetrating-sealer and hakelite-varnish type
floor finishes, together with a numher of prod-
ucts tested under the epoxy and high-solids,
high-viscosity provisions of the current speci-
fication. For listing, along with a folder on
finishing Northern hard maple, circle #117.

BOATING vacuums for your community are
outlined in comprehensive booklet which
covers city launching ramps, fishing sites, cre-
ating new lakes, municipal dockage, picrs, and
marinas. For cOpy, circle #118.

H

PLEASE NOTE EXPIRATION DATE

Clip and mail today. to

100 101 102 103 104 105 100 107
117 113 119 120 121 122 122 124
134 135 138 137 130 132 140 141

RECREATION Magazine. Dept. 11662. 8 W. 8th St.. New York 11

This coupon expire: August 1. 19-62
Please send me more information on circled products.

 

100 103 110 111 112 113 114 115 110
125 125 127 120 120 130 131 132 133
142 143 144 145 140 147 140 143 150

 

 

 

Name Tstle
Organization
Address City Zone State

 

aeez
317

FREE voua FISIIPOIVDS and swimming areas of
weeds. Herbicide destroys underwater weeds,
floating weeds, and algae by contact action.
Will not harm fish when applied at recom-
mended dosages. Residue disappears within
several days. For information on product and
bow to determine dosage rates, water surface
area, and depth, circle #119.

SAMPLE of pool-cover material included in
company’s literature. Pool covers available in
forest green or aqua. For information. circle

#120.

VINYL PLASTIC SWIMMING POOL ENCLOSURE
keeps out dust and bugs in summer and, if
you decide to install heating, your pool will
be useful year-round. Comes in three sizes.
22', 27’ and 32' wide. Curved ribbed frame
can be covered with one of three plastics.
glass clear, translucent, or aqua. For further
information concerning this product, circle

#121.

THE PLAYGROUND can be a music teacher. No
previous musical training is required to lead
children in 145 games played on a musical
staff marked on the surfacing. Johnnie can
be a half note and Tillie, a rest. Children can
learn the basic elements in musical composi-
tion, correlate sormd to symbol. For further
information on these games, circle #1212.

AT cournanncns, congresses, club and com-
mittee meetings, a tablet arm chair becomes
indispensable. Folding chair with tablet arm
for writing is practically indestructible.
Comes in plywood or upholstered in a variety
of decorator materials and colors. For further
information, circle #123.

THE TWIST. Lightweight twisting belt for
gymnastics simplifies coaching and allows per-
former to experience difficult stunts while still
under control of leader. lnner belt is made of
extruded plastic with chrome-plated channel-
groove facing that provides slippery track for
plastic outer belt to rotate. Excellent for class
instruction in tumbling, apparatus activities,
and rebound tumbling. Comes in two sizes.
For further information, circle #124.

You can TAKE IT WITH YOU. Portable bicycle
suits all ages from the young cycler to the
adult. 1s compact, collapsible, can be taken
camping, hosteling, can be used with attach-
ment for indoor exerciser. Folds for easy

storage. For more information on Portacycle,
circle #125.

SPARKY NEWS for fire prevention. If you want
to keep up-to-date on fire safety news. circle

#126 for free bulletin.

WHAT ARE can.” sms MADE or? Booklet,
Great Skis for Great Skiing, tells of change
from wooden to metal skis. Company offers
skis designed of metal, wood, plastic; skis for
every type of skiing surface and every kind
of skier. Great skis deserve great ski poles—-
strong, lightweight, well balanced, of special
aluminum alloy with scratch-resistant alumi-
num oxide finish. For booklet. circle #127.

SAILING 0N ICE. Iceboat uses any of several
sails and masts that summertime sailors use.
is portable, accommodates two people. Rear
steering provides freedom from cartwheeling.
All steel frame, plywood bunk. steel runners.
For further information, circle #128.

SHORT on WORK-TABLE SPACE? Detachable
table and bench unit may be rolled to any
position and used separately. Fold to store.
Edges trimmed with top-quality butyrate
molding. For information on these and other
folding tables, circle #130.

ON, ssv, can YOU see? Standard flag poles
are heavily constructed of full-weight, hot-
galvanized steel pipe, built to withstand se-
vere weather conditions. Sturdy, permanent,
but inexpensive. For information on this and
other steel products, circle #131.

AN AMERICAVIZED TWIST to the Maori stick
game Ti Ralcau can be played by two, four.
or more players, includes moving the hard-
wood sticks to the rhythm or beat of a chant.

For further information on Lummi sticks,
circle #129.

INSTITUTIONAL TAaLE 'I‘EN‘SIS TABLES for rec-
reation centers, parks, playgrounds. hospitals,
schools, churches feature particle-board tops
with uniform density throughout. completely
eliminating dead spots and “bad ball bounce"
inherent in ordinary tops. No plugs. checking,
cracks, or warpage. For further information
circle #132.
i i i t

COBBEC’IION: Item #135 in February should
have read “will delight the euamelist" not
"ceramicist" as stated. Apology to Gregory

Kilns.

 

Just off the press . . . 1962 revision of Recreation for the Aging

For leaders in every setting
Recreation in the
Senior Years

252 pages of know-how in planning sound programs
By Arthur IVilliams
Associate Executive Director, National Recreation Association

$3.95 (10% discount to N.R.A. members)
copies of Recreation in the Senior Years (#10)

E] Bill agency 

1:] Send

 

El Check or money order enclosed

 

318

Low-con MOS

Order these resources and references di-
rectly from source given (enclose remittance).

A COMPLETELY encaossmc aoox on skin and
scuba diving will fascinate both the neophyte
and veteran diver. The author, Charles Fran-
cis Allyn, details the history of man’s under-
water effort from the time of Leonardo da
Vinci. Well-written and informative chapters
on equipment, diving medicine, spearhshing.
decompression chart, and safety underwater
are not the usual pedantic narrative. The
chapters on treasures and treasure hunting
are historically and romantically intriguing.
Other information includes underwater hand
signals, types of sharks and other harmful
marine life, underwater pbotograpby, forming
a club, and a sample constitution and bylaws.
A paperbacked book, The Great Outdoors
Book of Skin and Scuba Diving, is available
for $1.00 from Great Outdoors, 4747 28th
Street North, St. Petersburg 14. Florida.

Fannwnnauwc IDEAS for fun on the road.
Travel Gamesis a booklet of games for people
on wheels that will charm and lull restless
youngsters and help people who have a tend-
ency to become carsick keep well and occu-
pied. Some of the games may even make
parents realize that somc of their progeny
might need glasses. These. however, are
fringe benefits. Alphabet games. licenseplate.
games, descriptive word games. identifying
roofs, windows, fences by categories, nature
words, rccreation activities, antiques, and
other games are the meat of this valuable
booklet. Available from The Beavers, Spring
Grove, Minnesota. Four copies for' $1.00 (the
minimum order accepted).

UN DAY, October 24th, offers limitless possi-
bilities for original, exciting international
celebrations and programs. The U.S. Con’t-
mittee for the United Nations offers a book-
let, Leaders Guide for Individual and Com-
munity Action, to help you in organizing a
local UN Day committee. community-wide
programs, religious programs, displays, ex-
hibits, youth progfams. Many appealing ac-
tivities are suggested, covering a wide range
and suiting various settings and age catc
gories. Recommended program aids are in-
cluded. Single copies are free, additional
copies are $.10 each. Available from the [1.5.
Committee for thc United Nations, 375 Park
Avenue, New York 22.

.

PIIOTOFILLED REPRINTS containing stuuning‘
photographs of even more stunning play
ground equipment, toys, puppets, and other
ingenious and lovely creations to delight and
instruct children are available from Switzer-
land for four Swiss francs ($.92). Murals,
marionettcs, exciting play areas and play
sculptures are some of the pleasant surprises
in this reprint. The philosophy in the tri-
lingual tcxt is almost too good to be true; it
aims at excellence early in a child’s life, main-
taining that this rich basis will stand the child
in good stead in later life. First come, first
served, though; there’s a limited supply.
Available from Ken Baynes, Amstutz and Her-
deg, Graphis Press, 45 Nuschelerstrasse, Zur-
ich 1, Switzerland. 1.

Races-v

FOR THE ILL
AND HANDICAPPED

 

'i‘ Representatives of eight national
health agencies met at National Recrea-
tion Association headquarters on May
1 to form a National Inter-Health
Agency Committee on Recreation. This
committee is the result of a previous
meeting of this group when all agreed
that common problems and needs in
recreation for their agencies could best
be served by joint action.

Dr. Morton Thompson, acting direc-
tor of the NRA Consulting Service on
Recreation for the Ill and Handicapped,
is responsible for the administration of
the committee’s needs and is NRA’s
representative on this committee. The
committee will attack problems such as
philosophy of recreation for national
health agencies; recreation program-
ing for the handicapped in a commu-
nity setting; recruitment and student
training; standardization of terminol-
ogy in recreation for the handicapped;
workshops for community recreation
personnel; informing the handicapped
and mentally ill of resources in the com-
nlunity.

The national health agencies were
represented by Dr. Joseph Kadish, Na-
tional Association of Mental Health;
R. Roy Rusk, Arthritis and Rheuma-
tism Foundation; Ernest Weinrich,
United Cerebral Palsy Association; H.
Kenneth Fitzgerald, American Founda-
tion for the Blind; Curtis Krishef, Na-
tional Association for Retarded Chil-
'dren; Jack Brauntuch, National Multi-
ple Sclerosis Society; Mrs. Elizabeth
Wagner, National Society for Crippled
Children and Adults; Miss Jean Dorf-

man, The National Foundation.

+ James P. Lang, superintendent of
recreation in San Francisco, writes us
about the recreation and park depart-
ment’s three-year study on the problem
of recreation for the handicapped in
San Francisco. The survey concerned
the following areas of need: determina-
tion of the type of programs existing in
San Francisco for handicapped per-
sons; the type of programs needed both
for short-range and long-range plan-
ning; how best to meet the program
needs. The report and its findings are
very comprehensive and interesting,

DH. THOMPSON is acting director of the
National Recreation Association Con-
sulting Service on Recreation for the Ill
and Handicapped.

JUNE. 1962

Morton Thompson, Ed.D.

and the plans of this city to coordinate
all recreation services for their handi-
capped is outstanding and will have far-
reaching effects upon all communities
in the United States.

+ The March issue of the Easter Seal
Bulletin states that the United States
Office of Vocational Rehabilitation has
awarded a $12,000 grant to the Na-
tional Society for Crippled Children
and Adults to help translate into action
the already developed blueprint for
eliminating architectural barriers for
the handicapped in buildings used by
the public. The society will also pre-
pare printed or audio-visual material
which will be available free or at cost.

(See “Barriers to Service”, RECREA-
TION, May 1962.)

+ Gus C. Zaso, recreation director of
the Mt. Pleasant State Home and Train-
ing School in Mt. Pleasant, Michigan,
reports on equipment he has improvised
for retarded cases who spend many idle
hours deteriorating in a crib. He has
designed a “crib-bike” to assist in de-
veloping and maintaining muscle tone
for many of the patients. Construction
was very simple. The front wheel was
removed from a tricycle and plastic
roller-skate bottoms without wheels
were substituted for the tricycle pedals.
The contraption was then attached to a
wooden frame with clamps to fasten the
frame to the inside of the crib. Thus,
the patient is able to cycle while lying

on his back.

+ The 1962 Eastern Cooperative Rec-
reation School will include a session on
recreation for the ill and handicapped.
Personnel and volunteers in hospitals
and schools can benefit from such a
workshop experience while enjoying an
informal camp atmosphere. The class
in recreation for the ill and handi-
capped will discuss the material and
ideas presented in other classes, as these
can be used and adapted for hospital
recreation. Field trips to nearby insti-
tutions are being planned.

The 1962 ECR school will be held at
the new New York University Camp at
Holmes, New York, August 18-26. Cost
of tuition, room, and board is $95. For
further information write Edward Mov-
er, Director of Recreation, Laurelton
State School and Hospital, Laurelton,
Pennsylvania. #

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 
    
    
    

  

Need Music Helps?
We Have Them!

Let's Have a Folk Festival, 16-poge
booklet b! Mrs. Mortan Hull Starr.
Practicol uggestions on how ta or-
ganize, stoge, publicize. Each 50¢.

 
 

         
   
          
 

I 1-11 List of International Music Titles for

International Music Programs. Each
contains Key ta Publishers.

l-l Belgian, 4 pages, each 20¢.
Dutch, 11 pages, each 30¢.
English, 10 pages, each 30¢.
French, 13 pages, each 30¢.
German, 11 pages, each 30¢.
Italian, 8 pages, each 25¢.

Latin American, 8 pages,
each 25¢.

Middle Eurapeon, 9 pages,
each 25¢.

Russian, 12 pages, each 30¢.

Scandinavian, 9 pages,
each 25¢.

Complete sets at 10 Lists, 95
pages, each set $2.50.

JhU-JN

"'0 (I! «JChUI

O

   
      
  
    
     
     
     
     
     
     
  
 
    
   

l-ll

 
 

Healing with Music, 16-poge Com-
prehensive Handbaak for Music in
Hospitals Valunteers, compiled by
Mrs. Dorotho E. Burrell. Eoch 40¢.

   

  

Facts about the National Federation
of Music Clubs. Eoch 5¢; 50¢ per
dazen.

Free Literature List Available

National Federation of Music Clubs

Sponsors at National Music Week and
American Music Manth

Suite 1215, 600 S. Michigan Ave.
Chicago 5, lllinais.

 FOLDING
,. PEDESTAL TABLES

 

      
       
   
     
   
   
 
   
   
   
   
     
     
     
   
  
     
    
  

Direct from factory sav-
lng to Churches, Schools,
Clubs, lodges and all organi-
‘ zations. MONROE 1962
 Folding Banquet Tables are
unmatched for quality, dura-
bility, convenlence and hand-
some appearance. 94 models and sizes for
every use. Write for prices, catalag.

FREE-BIG 1962 CATALOG

Color pictures. Full line MONROE tables, chairs,
table and chair trucks, platform-risers, part-
nble partitions. Write today!

THE MONROE 00.. 181 Church St., Colfax, Iowa

 
 

COAST TO COAST & CANADA

HOW ABOUT
A REAL
VACATION
ON A FARM?

New directory
describes farms.
ranches, rural
Inns . . . coast to
coast &. Canada.
Average weekly
rates wlth
country-slzed
” meals: adults 540.
1J( chlldrcn $25. The
warmest hospi-

FARM VACATIONS
Dept 'l 500 5th Ave. New York 36

 
   
   

  
 

 

   

319

    

GET THE GUYS
To VOCALIZE

WITH
NATIONAL'S DANDY

“SING-ALONG SONG SLIOES"!!

Meetings that begin or end with sing-along sessions
are successful meetings! Watch your gang warm up
fast with a lusty group sing! Send tor National's
tantastic tree catalog of more than 850 all-time hit
songs. available in slide form for as low as 50c a
tune! Need a projector? Let us know . . . we'll save
you real dough! Write today to:

NATIONAL STUDIOS
46 West 48th Street. N. Y. 36. N. Y.

 

 

     
 

KEMPER TOOLS FOR OERAMIOS

Clean-up. sqratitto. texturing tools and flower
cutters in many patterns and sizes. Instruc-

tion included with some.
For these and other ceramic tools. write for

FREE catalogue to:

KEMPER TOOLS. P.O. Box 545
cnmo. CALIFORNIA

 
   
       
 
     

"LION BRAND"

gubo and
kataie

MO SIIITS e KARATE SIITS

Best Oualily—Lowesl Prlces—Prompl Delivery

Importers and Distributors

Honda Associates, Inc.

66 West 47th Street
New York 36, New York
Tel: PLaza 7-6953. 56

managed by
KODOKAN BLACK BELT 3RD DAN

Write for Free Catalog

'How Ieel ToIk' and delcriplive
literature on the new. complete. It»!

-.  con honeybee Hobby Hive.

, J ..
THE A. l. ROOT CO. MEDINA. OHIO
SEND INQUIRY ro DEPT. R

 

320

 

PERSONNEL

 

NEW FORMULA FOR RECRUITMENT

Mary J 0 Schroder

SCHOOL SYSTEMS
frequently con-
duct career days
and conferences.
The effectiveness
of these career pro-

 

grams vary in many
respects. As recre-
ation executives, we should be more
than casually interested in the practical
promotion of “recreation careers and
recruitment.” Has your recreation de-
partment sponsored such.a program?
What form did your career conference
take? How eiiective was your plan?
The National Council of the Girl
Scouts of the U.S.A. experimented with
a new approach to careers last summer
when it sponsored a two-week All-States
Career Conference in a camp setting to
explore outdoor vocations and avoca-
tions. The career areas included recre-
ation, camping, and earth sciences.
The purpose of the career conference
was:
' To give Senior Girl Scouts the chance
to explore vocations in the out-of-doors
in the areas of recreation—city, state,
federal government and private agency;
camping—private, organization, school
and church; and the earth sciences—as-
tronomy, geology, botany, biology, and
meteorology.
' To offer Senior Girl Scouts the oppor-
tunity to utilize what they have learned
in Girl Scouting as background for this
eXploration: camping experiences, abil-
ity to get along with others, leadership,
and use of the patrol system.
' To demonstrate how to use commu-
nity resources for these vocational pur-
suits so that local Girl Scout councils
may increase their awareness of other
resources for wider opportunities for
Senior Girl Scouts: lectures in three
areas, resource list, field visits, and vis-

 

MISS SCIIRODER is supervisor of recrea-
tion for the recreation department in
Cincinnati, Ohio.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

its from professional women in the field.

The conference was held at Camp
Ross Trails, Ross, Ohio, the camp
owned and operated by the Greater Cin-
cinnati Girl Scout Council, Inc. This
camp has 304 acres of land, terrain con-
sisting of valleys, woods, meadows, and
lake. Approximately one hundred girls
attended, two from each state and U. S.
possessions. There were approximately
fifteen staii members.

The conference was so planned that,
in the orientation period, each camper
could obtain an overall picture of all
three fields of interest and then later
specialize, so to speak, in her chosen
field. The orientation program was
given by three outstanding women in
each of the respective fields. Each
speaker endeavored to expand the think-
ing in the following general topics:

' Need for personnel.
' Qualifications necessary.

' Training institutions available for
formal education.

' Opportunities available for women
in various positions.

' Salary ranges in specific jobs.

' Specific listing of positions under
each career field.

' Recruitment of women.

A question-and-answer period fol-
lowed each speaker or panel. The girls
then used the time afforded them to
speak speciIically and informally with
the experts in the various fields.

FOLLOWING the orientation days, one
week was devoted to spccific con-
centration of recreation at various
levels—city, state, federal government,
and private agency. The first day was
a field trip to:
' The campus of Indiana University
where a recreation staii membcr showcd
the group the outstanding facilities of
the recreation dcpartment and ex-
plained the educational requirements
for major and graduate work.

RECREATION

' Bradford Woods which has a unique
setup of several established camps with-
in its area. The group visited the adult
:erebral-palsy camp which was in ses-
sion. The camp director explained how
recreation is the same in general for all
groups, but modified accordingly to
meet the needs of the handicapped. The
group also spent some time at the Amer-
ican Camping Association ofiice, lo-

cated in Bradford Woods.

On the second day at camp, two ses-
sions of practical training included
techniques of game leadership; sample
games for all ages—youth, adult, and
senior citizens; puppetry—potato pup-
pets, head puppets, and newspaper pup-
pets; action stories; dances—social
mixers, square, and folk; and sources
of materials.

The next day was spent with com-
plete concentration on hospital recrea-
tion. Marilyn Remmers, program di-
rector for hospital recreation of the
Kentucky Department of Health, pre-
sented two movies, followed by discus-
sion and a question-and-answer period.

On the fourth day a tour of Cincin-
nati was arranged. The recreation ca-
reer participants observed a playground
in session, a day-camp program and its
operation, a recreation playfield and
its facilities, a recreation community
center program, a senior-citizens center
program, and industrial recreation at
the Milling Machine Company.

The last morning included an arts-
and-crafts program led by a specialist
from the Cincinnati Recreation Depart-
ment. The afternoon program consisted
of a panel of girls from the recreation
career group, led by the program direc-
tor. This included a question-and-an-
swer period, resources in local commu-
nities, discussion of how the work of
“career concentration” in recreation
could and should be related and inter-
preted to participant, and evaluation.

The girls in the recreation section,
as a climax to their training program,
organized, planned and conducted an
all-camp evening program of recreation.
All thirty-eight girls shared the con-
gratulations for a most successful job.

Many agencies cooperated in this
conference. The University of Cincin-
nati assigned Mary Wolverton, assist-
ant professor in the department of phys-
ical and health education, to the proj-

JUNE. 1962

 

Just Published

and Special Events.

order from :

426 South 6th St. a

BURGESS

A New, Outstanding Collection of Social Activities for Schools,
Clubs, Churches and Organizations

FILE 0' FUN

CARD FILE FOR SOCIAL RECREATION
by J ANE HARRIS, Washington State University

Organized for the convenience of the social recreation leader, this handy card file
can be used wherever people get together for fun and fellowship—4m occasions at
any age level, for any number of people and for any length of time. A separate
pamphlet in the wallet helps the social leader develop leadership techniques in work-
ing with people and in planning program activities for the enjoyment of all.
The 166 4 x 6” cards cover: Pro-party Activities, Defrosters, Stunts, Get ac-
quainted Activities, Mixers, Patio and Game Room Activities, Table and Card
Games, Party Relays, Tricks and Puzzles, Inactive and Active Games, Skits

The fiber wallet also contains eight folded game diagrams. Each leader may add
successful activities of his own as he wishes. $3.00

PUBLISHING
COMPANY

Minneapolis 15, Minn.

BlacktOp pavements don’t have to be black . . .

 

Vynatexiii23

This new polymer coating for asphalt pavements provides

the charm, beauty, attractiveness of distinctive colors.

0 Grass Green

Color-fast, durable . .

 

 

Do It Now!

Make your reservations for
the 44th

National Recreation Congress
Philadelphia. Sept. 30-Oct. 5

 

- Concrete Gray
. easy to keep clean.

a Brick Red

Now— fly SAS to Europe
As Iowas 3285 round trip!

Qualified groups of 25 persons or more fly
to Europe for as little as $285 per person,
round trip, with SAS Jet economy Group
fares! For details see your SAS travel agent
or write

JCJ/VDI/VJVI/I/V llklI/VII J'I’J'IE”
Dept. 011, 638 Fifth Avenue, New York 20, New York

 

ect. She obtained and coordinated the
consultants in the various vocational
fields and assisted them in obtaining
specialists for field work in their areas.
The Cincinnati Recreation Department
“loaned” Mary Jo Schroder, supervisor
of recreation, who headed the recreation
section of the conference. The Colum-
bus Girl Scout Council released its exec-
utive director, Ruth Schollenberger, to
organize the camping section. The Jew-
ish Hospital and the Cincinnati Board
of Education permitted Winsome M.
Bacon, a candidate for a Master of Sci-
ence in teaching biological science, to

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

head the science section. Approximately
forty other highly trained and qualified
individuals, representing industry, sci-
ence, teaching, recreation fields, depart-
ment of interior, hospitals, etcetera,
completed the adult consultants. In gen-
eral, all members of the camp staff and
consultants donated their services.

Recreation administrators, this All-
States Career Conference was a highly
successful experiment. Are you satis-
fied ust to read and accept this article
or will it be a challenge for you to con-
duct an effective program of rccreation
recruitment? if:

321

Reporter’s Notebook
Continued from, Page 279

 

gional Park District, which embraces
nearly ten thousand acres of essentially
undeveloped land atop the coastal range
immediately behind Oakland and its
neighboring East Bay communities. De-
velopment of facilities and programs
that will add to the outdoor experience
of this setting will be the new manager’s
first concern.

Dr. Frank Harnett, associate director
of the Long Beach, California, Recrea-
tion Commission, will retire at the end
of June. Dr. Harnett began his recrea-
tion career as director of Recreation
Park in 1929. Duane George will step
into the spot left vacant by Dr. Harnett’s
retirement, and Robert Van Antwerp
will take over as assistant director.

Dr. E. A. (Swede) Scholer, assistant

professor of recreation at the State Uni-
versity of Iowa in Iowa City, was re-
cently appointed to the national advi-
sory board of the Camping Council for
Travel and Wilderness Campers Inc.
He will serve as recreation consultant.

 

NEW CONCEPT
IN ENAELING

  

PATENTED

o SILVER 0 SOLDERIIIG o JEWELRY
o ALUMINUM o GLASS 0 DEK-AL

with a flick of the switch . . .

INSTANT HEAT

Kilns for Campsl Schools
Hobbyists and Professionals

FREE LITERATURE ON REQUEST

  21570 EdgeclittDr.

Euclid 23. Ohlo
MANUFACTURER AND DISTRIBUTOR

M
322

 

 

A $150,000,000 mouthful. Kenneth
MacRae (right), district administrator
for the West Side Recreation and Park

District in Taft, California, discusses
the state’s proposed $150,000,000 bond
issue for park and recreation develop-

ment with Governor Edmund Brown
during the California and Pacific South-
west Recreation and Park Conference.

Two professors from the University of
Louisville’s Department of Health,
Physical Education, and Recreation
have been invited by the United States
Army to hold a series of intramural
sports clinics in the Far East. Jolm
Heldman, Jr. head of the HPER de-
partment, and Ellis J. Mendelsolm,
assistant professor in the department
and director of intramural sports at the
university, will leave June 15 to begin
the series of four clinics in Hawaii,
Okinawa, Korea, and Japan.

Thousands of paintings were entered in
the 1961 International Children’s Paint-
ing Exhibition held recently in Paki-
stan. Robert Bodcnhageu, a high-

school student who lives near Catawba,
Wisconsin, won the contest with a pic-

ture titled “A Plaée Where My Father
and I Go Duck Hunting.” The paint-
ings were entered through the Red Cross
International School Art Program.

Ralph Van Fleet, Southern District
field representative of the National Rec-
reation Association, was invited to Fort
Pierce, Florida, recently by the parks
and recreation subcommittee of the Citi-
zens Advisory Committee to review the
city’s recreation facilities and needs.
While there, Mr. Van Fleet addressed
the South Fort Pierce Kiwanis Club, the
Fort Pierce Kiwanis Club, a group at
the Lincoln Park Recreation Center,
and the Fort Pierce Lions Club, and
was interviewed on two radio programs,
filling listeners in on the recreation sit-
uation. According to Woodrow W.
Dukes, recreation director of St. Lucie
County, Mr. Van Fleet’s visit “did rec-
reation in Fort Pierce a world of good.”

STATE SOCIETY NEWS

The Mississippi Recreation Associa-
tion is fighting for adoption of a state
Certification-Registration Plan and a
scholarship plan in the state. Each year
the association sponsors a Teenage
Workshop, Swimming Workshop, and
a Playground Leaders Workshop. Offi-
cers of the‘ Association are: President,
Willis Terry, Jackson; Vice-president,
John Tidwcll, Tupelo; and Secretary,
Merle Johnson, Jackson. At the present
time, the state has fifteen full-time city
recreation programs.

 

Recreation Up the Creek

Continued from Page 288

 

and location. A person was selected
from each division to serve on the Rec-
reation Planning Committee. Mayor
Pitts comments, “The method of organ-
ization and the splendid cooperation of
the pe0ple in the community, parents
and others, contributed to a very suc-
cessful community recreation program
—one which any community could
carry out, if the people are willing to do

a little planning and a lot of work.” if:
‘I- * I‘ *

Beth Yates, superintendent of rec-
reation in neighboring Sylacouga

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

writes, “Sylacauga was host to a

party for a group from Talladega
Springs at the end of the summer.

The coach brought fifty-seven
swimmers plus parents, etcetera.
There were free swims at our mu-
nicipal pool and a picnic. After
the picnic, the visitors were invited
back to the pool area aml the Sylu-
cauga swim team did some exhibi-
tion competitive swimming and
diving. Four costumed numbers
front our water show were then
presented and this ended our first
intercommunity party. I think it
was a real good thing for both
groups—I’m sure we enjoyed it.”

_E(lc

RECREATION

  

Megalopolis, Jean Gottmann. Twen-
tieth Century Fund, 41 East 70th Street,
New York 21. Pp. 810. $10.00.

This author opens his preface with
the statement, “This book is the result
of twenty years of study.” The truth of
this statement can hardly be doubted
when one begins to wade through a
really fantastic accumulation of facts,
charts, graphs, and tons of information.
Megalopolis is a late-model encyclope-
dic source book for planners, park and
recreation executives, alert politicians,
and public administrators in general.
It is a most scholarly work and not easy
reading; however, it covers the subject
of the vast urban sprawl ranging from
lower Maine to upper Virginia along the
eastern seaboard in a fashion such as no
other book has to date. It attacks and
attempts to digest the myriad problems,
such as race, traffic, recreation, educa-
tion, employment, and other significant
influences and is not without sizeable
chunks of the author’s philosophy on
matters at hand. Enormous amounts of
usable information are available in it
and it should become a major resource
work. Maps and graphic work are ex-
cellent—Joseph E. Curtis, Commis-
sioner, Department of Recreation and

Parks, White Plains, New York.

Leisure and ,the Schools. American
Association for Health, Physical Edu-
cation and Recreation, 1201 16th
Street, N.W., Washington 6, D.C. Pp.
186. $3.75.

This book belongs on the reference
shelf of every recreation leader or edu-
cator, whether he is afliliated with the
board of cducation, local recreation
commission, a private agency, or what-
have-you. It was prepared jointly by
educators and recreation leaders as the
annual yearbook of the American Asso-
ciation of Health, Physical Education
and Recreation and is an excellent state-
ment on the importance of education
for leisurc in this day and age. It not
only points up the steps for the integra-
tion of education for leisure with the
school program but discusses the place.
qualifications. and responsibilities of
the recreation leader as a teacher as well
as the teacher as a recreation leader. It

JUNE, 1962

also emphasizes the obligation of all for
the recruitment of young people to this
field. Its treatment of the why of recre-
ation in our new leisure is execellent.
The ten contributors include John L.
Hutchinson, Edward E. Bignell, Thom-
as W. Dodson, Harold K. Jack, John H.
Jenny, G. Robert Koopman, Louis E.
Means, Norman P. Miller, Julian W.
Smith, and Harry C. Thompson.

“Preparation for citizenship must in-
volve the development of an attitude
toward and an understanding of leisure
and its use,” say the authors. “The de-
velopment of skills and techniques and
attitudes for the use of leisure should
challenge all teachers. . . . Opportunity
for education for leisure exists wherever
there are opportunities for leisuretime
experience, for interests to be aroused
and explored.”

Lisa and David, Theodore lsaac Ru-

bin, M.D. Macmillan Company, 60
Fifth Avenue, New York. Pp. 79. $2.95.

This is an absorbing account of the
relationship between two disturbed
adolescent patients. David, who is bril-
liant, cannot stand to be physically
touched. His dreams, as well as most
of his waking hours, are preoccupied
with visions of clocks and their precise
mechanisms. Lisa, who sometimes be-
comes a personality identified as
Muriel, will speak only in rhyme and
she insists that David respond to her in
the same manner.

This small volume takes you through
various episodes in a growing period
for these two youngsters, their rebel-
lions against authority, their fears, and
their triumphs. The book is an excel-
lent presentation of two clinical cases;
it is of value to the recreation leader, as
well as to the lay person who has con-
tact in dealing with disturbed adoles-
cents—Sheldon 1. Reid, National Rec-
reation Association Consulting Service
on Rccreation for the HI and Handi-

capped.

Complete Book of Camping, Leon-
ard Miracle with Maurice Decker. Har-
per and Brothers, 49 East 33rd Street,

New York 16. Pp. 594. $4.95.

Here is a comprehensive guide to the
various phases of trip and tent camping,

Ew
PUBLICATIONS

including planning the camping trip
and packing, equipment to take (dis-
cussion and illustration of new and
modern types of tents, for instance),
clothing, personal items, grub list, auto
camping, packboards, canoe handling,
pack and saddle trips, wilderness skills,
pitching camp, cooking, axmanship, get-
ting lost and living off the land, pests
and insects, and first aid. It also offers
a campground guide and index.

The authors are both experienced
campers. Mr. Miracle, associate editor
of Outdoor Life, was at one time with
U. S. Forest Service, working in wilder-
ness areas, while Mr. Decker, former
camping editor of Outdoor Life, is es-
teemed as one of today’s leading experts
on camping and woodcraft. Attractively
presented, with many illustrations and
easy-to-read type, this book will indeed
prove helpful to the many modern out-
doorsmen who are just waiting for the
first breath of summer, to “pack up
their tents like the Arabs and silently
steal away.”

BOOKS ON NATURE

The Forest, Peter Farb and the Edi-
tors of Life. Time, Incorporated, Rocke-
feller Center, New York 19. Pp. 192.
$3.95.

One of the Lifc Nature Library Se-

ries, this book, with its interesting read-
ing matter and beautiful colorplates,
conveys to the reader the cathedral bush
and beauty of the great forest and a
sense of man’s relation to it. We visit
the forest in each season of the year, in
different parts of the world, delve into
ancient landscapes—tracing the evolu-
tion of the woodland, its plants. trees,
and creatures, learning to read the fos-
sil record, penetrating the deepest thick-
ets of the jungle. A chapter traces the
rise and fall of the wilderness. another
the ravaging of the forests. and a third
the return of the forests through con-
servation and modern methods of man-
aaement by commercial timber inter-

ests.

The Wonderful World of Nature.
Viking Press, 625 Madison Avenue,
New York 22. Pp. 213. $7.50.

This time, the story of nature and the
“tonic of the wilderness” is brought to

323

the reader largely through the superb
photographs of sixty famous photogra-
phcrs. The text is brief, the detalls of
animal, insect, bird, reptile life being
revealed in the series of pictures. The
camera’s eye has captured moments of
drama and of beauty, with no need to
glamorize nature or the eternal struggle
for survival. As Edwin Way Teale says
in his introduction, “In a manner un-
known to Tlloreau’s time, photography
is now able to carry us into the very
heart of the natural world with all its
variety and color and interest.” The
book provides a field trip—an expedi-
tion that would take years of walking
and concentrated observation.

 
 

“Come join us
on our
gay and enriching

1962
Friendship Tour”

We hope you will come join us on
our I962 Friendship Tour. Last year's
tour proved a wonderful. gay. re-
warding experience. So this year we

have planned another fine cruise
and tour to provide the some rich

experience tor you.
That's the personal message from
Mary and Howard Galloway. (right)

who sponsored and conducted last
year's tour group. The Galloway's.

editors and publishers ot Camping
Magazine. will again add to this
year's itinerary opportunities to meet
your I'opposite numbers" in the coun-
tries you visit.

You will enjoy a restful Fall cruise
through the beautiful Mediterranean.
Then a not-usually-included visit to
tascinating Greece. Followed by hap-
py days in Italy. Austria. Germany.
Switzerland. England and France.

It's a great opportunity to swap ideas
on youth leadership. To get to know

324

IN BRIEF

A SUMMARY OF SELECTED FEATURES OF

THE INDOOR SWIMMING POOL ( revised ),
Frederick W. Kahms, Jr. Purdue Uni-
versity, Lafayette, Indiana. Pp. 42.

$3.00. The material in this publication
is based in part on a study conducted by

Dr. Kahns as chairman of a N .C.A.A.
Committee on Swimming Pool Stand-
ardization. Its purpose was to deter-
mine the opinions of college swimming
coaches with reference to the design and
equipment of indoor pools. N o attempt
was made to consider technical and me-
chanical phases of pool construction.
Among the tOpics considered are pool

 
   
 
       
 

 

on a personal basis the people of
other countries.

The I962 Friendship Tour will be in-
expensive. too. Five and a half won-
dertul weeks for about $|250. ln-
cludes travel trom New York or Bos-
ton and return. Hotels. meals. special

courier through Europe. too.

Get full information. Write
Mary and Howard Galloway.

Room R5. l||4 South Avenue.
Plaintield. N. J.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

4‘

location, swimming lanes, diving facili-
ties, starting blocks, pool deck area,
lighting, and other equipment. Al-
though the study concerns itself with in-
door pools, much of the information

would be applicable to outdoor pools
as well.-——G.D.B.

SING ALONG WITH MITCH, songs ar-
ranged by Jimmy Carroll. Bernard
Geis, 130 East 56th Street, New York
22. Pp. 140. $5.95. Forty old-time fa-
vorite songs which everyone knows——
from great grandfather down to the
newest teenagerm—reappear in this col-
lection in a most inviting form. The
treatment, illustrations, piano accom-
paniments with choral signs, barber-
shop obligatos, notes on the composers
and lyrics, six extra copies of the words
are strictly “pro.” All of it is intended,
however, for the amateur. The songs
can be sung, of course, without accom-
paniment, but even a moderately good
piano or fretted instrument accompani-
ment will enhance the flavor of these
songs which ring thrice over with
memories.

MUSIC FOR THE MODERN DANCE, Pia
Gilbert and Aileene Lock/tart. William
C. Brown. Company, 135 South Locust
Street, Dubuque, Iowa. Pp. 120, illus-
trated. $4.50. The main purpose of this
book is to clarify and disentangle an
area of great concern to choreogra-
phers, accompanists, teachers, perform-
ers, and students of the dance: “The
Music.” It fulfills this purpose in a
highly adequate and competent manner.
The treatment of the various aspects Of
the subject is concise, practical, au-
thoritative, and a wealth of references
and suggestions is provided. The ele-
ments of music for dance, principles of
accompaniment, percussion instru-
ments, sources of music, and other re—
lated subjects are described and ana-
lysed in detail. Pia Gilbert composed
the more than thirty basic dance pieces
(piano) in a skillful, effective, contem-
porary style.

A BOOK OF NONSENSE SONGS, Norman
Cazden, Editor. Crown Publishers, 419
Park Avenue South, New York 16, New
York. Pp. 106. Paper, $1.95. The edi-
tor of this collection takes the position
that folk songs undergo change and edi-
tors are free to contribute toward their
change. The result is a variety of tradi-
tional nonsense songs presented with
new words and musical arrangements
by Norman Cazden. Degustibus non est
disputandum. These nonsense songs
perhaps will best suit the experienced
folk song devotees. However, the col-
lection contains a number of tunes
which the recreation leader may wish to
select for the younger set’s enjoyment.

RECREATION

 

BOOKS & PAMPHLETS RECEIVED

 

Ill and HondicaEEed

LAUGHTER IN THE LONELY NIGHT, A, Henry
Viscardi, Jr. Paul S. Eriksson, 119 W. 57
St., New York 19. Pp. 338. $5.00.

AMERICANS VIEW THEIR MENTAL HEALTH,
Gerald Gurin, Joseph Veroff and Sheila
Feld. Basic Books, 59 Park Ave. S., New
York 3. Pp. 444. $7.50.

ARTHRITIS. John Hancock Mutual Life In-
surance Co., Boston, Mass. Pp. 18. Free.

BETTER HOMES AND GARDENS FIRST AID FOR
YOUR FAMILY. Meredith Publishing, 1716
Locust St., Des Moines, Iowa. Pp. 118.
Illustrated. $1.10.

BLIND CHILDREN IN FAMILY AND COMMUNITY,
Marietta B. Spencer. Univ. of Minnesota
Press, 2037 Univ. Ave., SE, Minneapolis
14. Pp. 142. Photographs. $4.25.

CHECK-UPS: SAEEGUARDING YOUR HEALTH,
Michael H. K. Irwin. Public Affairs Com-
mittee, 22 E. 38th St., New York 16. Pp.
18. Paper, $.25.

COMMUNITY RESOURCES IN MENTAL HEALTH,
Reginald Robinson, David F. deMarche,
and Mildred K. Wagle. Basic Books, 59
Park Ave. S., New York 3. Pp. 435. $8.50.

CONQUEST 0F UNPLEASANT BREATH, THE,
Harold Rajnauth. Exposition Press, 386
Park Ave. S., New York 16. Pp. 29. Paper,
$1.00.

COUNSELING YOUR FRIENDS, Louis J. and Lu-
cile Cantoni. William-Frederick Press, 55
E. 86th St., New York 28. Pp. 105. Paper,
$1.05.

DIABETICS UNKNOWN, Groff Conklin. Public
Affairs Committee, 22 E. 38th St., New
York 16. Pp. 27. $.25.

EDUCATION OF THE SEVERELY RETARDED CHILD,
Harold M. Williams. US. Govt. Printing
Office, Washington 25, D. C. Pp. 82. $.45.

EMOTIONAL PROBLEMS AND WHAT YOU CAN
DO ABOUT THEM, William B. Terhune.
Wm. Morrow, 425 Park Ave. S., New York
16. Pp. 190. Paper, $1.25.

FAREWELL TO FEAR, Tomi Keitlen with Nor-
man M. Lobsenz. Bernard Geis Associates,

130 E. 56th St., New York 22. Pp. 286.
$3.95. ’

FIRST AID, A. C. White Knox and J. E. F.
Gueritz. Penguin Books, 3300 Clipper Mill
Rd., Baltimore 11. Pp. 128. Paper, $.95.

FRONTIERS IN GENERAL HOSPITAL PSYCHIA-
TRY, Louis Linn, M.D. International Uni-
versities Press, 227 W. 13th St., New York
11. Pp. 483. $10.00.

GROUP PSYCIIOTHERAPY WITH CHILDREN, Haim
G. Ginott. McGraw-Hill, 330 W. 42nd St.,
New York 36. Pp. 208. $5.95.

GROWING UP, (cerebral palsied children),
Mildred Shriner. National Soc. for Crip-
pled Children and‘Adults, 2023 W. Ogden
Ave., Chicago 12. Pp. 24. $.25. .

HANDBOOK OF EMOTIONAL ILLNESS AND
TREATMENT, A, Richard C. Robertiello.
Citadel Press, 222 Park Ave. S., New York
3. Pp. 159. $3.95.

HEALING POWER OF POETRY, THE, Smiley
Blanton, MD. Thomas Y. Crowell, 432
Park Ave. S., New York 16. Pp. 202.
$3.95. '

HELPING THE TRAINARLE MENTALLY RETARDED
CHILD, Bernice B. Baumgartner. Bureau of
Publications, Teachers College, Columbia

JUNE, 1962

Univ., 525 W. 120th St., New York 27. Pp.
71. Paper, $1.00.

HYPOKINETIC DISEASE, Hans Kraus and Wil-
helm Raab. Charles C. Thomas, 301-327 E.

Lawrence Ave., Springfield, Illinois. Pp.
193. $7.50.

INDUSTRIAL ARTS FOR BLIND STUDENTS, Re-
port of a Conference on Principles and
Standards. American Foundation for the
Blind, 15 W. 16th St., New York 11. Pp.
80. Paper, $1.00.

MENTAL AFTERCARE—Assignment for the Six-
ties, Emma Harrison. Public AfIairs Pam-
phlets, 22 E. 38th St., New York 16. Pp.
28. $.25.

MENTAL HEALTH OR MENTAL ILLNESS? Wil-
liam Glasser, M.D. Harper & Bros., 49 E.
33rd St., New York 16. Pp. 208. $3.75.

MENTAL RETARDATION, Jerome H. Rothstein.

Holt, Rinehart and Winston, 383 Madison
Ave., New York 17. Pp. 628. $6.75.

MIND IN HEALING, THE, Rolf Alexander, M.D.
Dutton & Co., 300 Park Ave. S., New York
10. Pp. 191. $3.00.

NURSING HOME ADMINISTRATION, John D.
Gerletti, C. C. Crawford, and Donovan J.
Perkins. Attending Staff Assoc., 7601 E.
Imperial Hwy” Downey, Calif. Pp. 472.
$6.50.

PAGEANT OF MEDICINE, THE, Felix Marti-
Ibanez, Editor. Farrar, Straus and Cudahy,
101 5th Ave., New York 3. Pp. 360. $6.00.

PARAPLEGIA: A Head, a Heart, and Two Big
Wheels, Jules Saltman. Public Affairs
Committee, 22 E. 38th St., New York 16.
Pp. 28. $.25.

PHYSICAL DISABILITY—A Psychological Ap-
proach, Beatrice A. Wright, Ph.D. Harper

———'_—'————-_I—I—_————__—_

JOIN THE FALL 1962 FRIENDSHIP TOUR

 

 

Austria. Germany. Switzerland. All
with a congenial group and at bud-
get prices. To find out how. mail the

coupon.

To Mary and Howard Galloway

information.

r__________________

When writing to our advertisers plcase mention RECREATION.

Room R5, |||4 South Avenue. Plainfield, N. J.

I am considering joining the I962 Friendship Tour. Please send me
without obligation color brochures, itinerary details, date and cost

o o o o o I o I I I o o o I I o o o o I o o o o I n o o .

..Zone.....5tate . . . . . . . . . ..

Name . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . .
Street 3: No. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Profession or Occupation . . . . . . .

Join the happy couple at left. com-
paring notes by a Paris fountain.
Stroll in London's Picadilly Circus.
below. Visit fascinating Greece. Italy.

 

|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
l
|
l
l
l
-I

81 Bros, 49 E. 33rd St., New York 16. Pp.
408. $6.00.

PLAY FOR CONVALESCENT CHILDREN (rev.
ed.), Anne Marie Smith. A. S. Barnes, 11
E. 36th St., New York 16. Pp. 182. $4.50.

POTENTIALITIES AND GROWTH OF THE CERE-
BRAL PALSIED IN ART, THE, T. Daniel
Scheerer. Cerebral Palsy Assoc. of West-
ern New York, 309 North St., Buffalo 1.
Pp. 16. Spiralbound, $1.25.

QUESTIONS ON ARTHRITIS. Arthritis 8: Rheu-
matism Foundation, 432 Park Ave. S., New
York 16. Pp. 16. Free.

READING METHODS AND GAMES FOR TEACHING
THE RETARDED CHILD, Helene L. Hunter.
Know Publ., 799 Broadway, New York 3.
Pp. 64. Paper, $2.95.

RECREATIONAL ACTIVITY DEVELOPMENT FOR
THE AGING IN HOMES, HOSPITALS AND NURS-
ING HOMES, Carol Lucas, Ed.D. Charles C.
Thomas, 301-327 E. Lawrence Ave., Spring-
field, Ill. Pp. 59. $4.25.

SOCIAL CASEWORK AND BLINDNESS, Samuel
Finestone, Martin Whiteman, Fern Lowry

and Irving Lukoff. American Foundation
for the Blind, 15 W. 16th St., New York

11. Pp. 157. Paper, $1.50. (hard cover.
$2.75.)

SPECIAL EDUCATION OF PHYSICALLY HANDI-
CAPPED CHILDREN IN WESTERN EUROPE,
Wallace W. and Isabelle Wagner Taylor.
International Society for the Welfare of
Cripples, 701 lst Ave., New York 17. Pp.
497. $3.50.

TEACHING METHOD FOR BRAIN-INJURED AND
HYPERACTIVE CHILDREN, A, William M.
Cruickshank, Frances A. Bentzen, Freder-
ick H. Ratzeburg and Miriam T. Tann-
hauser. Syracuse University Press, Syra-
cuse 10. Pp. 576. $7.95.

THERAPY THROUGH HORTICULTURE, Donald P.
Watson and Alice W. Burlingame. Mac-

millan Co., 60 5th Ave., New York 11. Pp.
134. $4.95.

USE OF GROUPS IN TIIE PSYCHIATRIC SETTING.
National Assoc. of Social Workers, 95 Mad-
ison Ave., New York 16. Pp. 158. Paper,
$2.50.

VOLUNTEER SERVICES IN MENTAL HOSPITALS.
National Association for Mental Health, 10
Columbus Circle, New York 10. Pp. 255.
Paper, $1.00.

WHEN CHILDREN NEED SPECIAL HELP WITH
EMOTIONAL PROBLEMS, Greta Mayer and
Mary Hoover. Child Study Assoc. of Amer-
ica, 9 E. 89th St., New York 28. Pp. 29.

$.40.
YOU AND YOUR HEARING, Norton Canfield.

Public Affairs Pamphlets, 22 E. 38th St.,

New York 16. Pp. 20. $.25.
YOUR NURSING SERVICES TODAY AND TOMOR-

ROW, Elizabeth Ogg. Public Affairs Com-
mittee, 22 E. 38th St.. New York 16. Pp.
27. 3.25.

Sports and Physical Education

 

AMERICAN SAIL, Alexander Laing. E. P. Dut-
ton, 300 Park Ave. S., New York 10. Pp.
346. $15.00.

ARCHERY (3rd ed.) , Natalie Reichart and Gil-
man Keasey. Ronald Press, 15 E. 26th St.,
New York 10. Pp. 78. $3.50.

ARNOLD PALMER’S GOLF BOOK—“HIT IT
HARD.” Ronald Press, 15 E.’ 26th St., New
York 10. Pp. 142. $5.00.

BASEBALL, George “Specs” Toporcer. Ster-
Iing Publ., 419 Park Ave. S., New York 16.
Pp. 160. Paper, $1.00.

BASERALL GUIDE AND RECORD BOOK 1961.
Charles C. Spink, 2018 Washington Ave.,
St. Louis 66. Pp. 464. Paper, $1.00.

BASEBALL IN AMERICA, Robert Smith. Holt,
Rinehart and Winston, 383 Madison Ave.,
New York 17. Pp. 278. $10.00.

BASEBALL REGISTER (1961 ed.). C. C. Spink.
St. Louis 66. Pp. 340. Paper, $5.00.

CHIPPING AND PUTTING (golf around the
green), Bill Casper. Jr. with Don Collett.

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING

RATES: Words in regular type $.15 each
Words in boldface type $.25 each
Minimum ad accepted . . .. $3.00

DEADLINES: Copy must be received by

the fifth of the month preceding date of
the issue in which ad is desired.

COPY: Type-—or clearly print—your message and the address to which you wish
replies sent. Underline any words you want to appear in boldface type.

Send copy with remittance to:
RECREATION Classified Advertising, 8 West Eighth Street, New York 11, New York.

HELP WANTED

Therapists for California
State Hospitals. Opportu-
nity to plan and conduct
individual patient recrea-
tion as well as special
group activities; modern
equipment and facilities
available. Positions open to
college graduates with ma-
jor in recreation or recrea-
tion therapy, which includ-
ed supervised field work.
No experience required.
Starting salary $463.00 pcr
month; promotional oppor-
tunities; liheral employee
benefits. Write State Per-
sonnel Board, 801 Capitol

Avenue, Sacramento, Cali-
f ornia.

Interagency Project Re-
search Director—($14,-
000). Master’s Degree or
Doctorate desirable. Docu-
mented experience in fields
emphasizing seminar lead-
ership, project direction or
research and data analysis.
Complete resume by June
8, 1962, to: Personnel Di-
rector, Room 100, City
Hall, Oakland 12, Califor-

nia.

Regional Park Director
—-For young agency serv-
ing 2,000-square mile area
jointly supported by the

capital city of Salem, Ore-
gon (50,000 popJ, Marion
County (128,000 pop.) , and

. Polk County (27,000 pop.).

Carrying this program to
its full potential will pre-
sent a challenging oppor-
tunity to a highly qualified
parks administrator. Work
closely with an established
regional council of govcrn-
ments and regional plan-
ning and port agencies.
Starting salary —- up to
$9600. Send application to
Robert Van Ilorn, Execu-
tive Secretary, Intergovern-
mental Cooperation Coun-
cil, Marion County Court-
house, Salem, Oregon.

The publisher assumes no responsibility for services or items advertised here.

326

 

Ronald Press, 15 E. 26th St., New York 10.
Pp. 114. $5.00.

DAGUERRO TYPES OF GREAT STARS OF BASE-
BALL. Sporting News, 2018 Washington
Ave., St. Louis 66. Pp. 255. Paper, $3.00.

DICTIONARY OF SAILING, F. H. Burgess. Pen-
guin Books, 3300 Clipper Mill Rd., Balti—
more 11. Pp. 237. Paper, $.95.

EASY STEPS TO SAFE SWIMMING (3rd ed.).
Evelyn Ditton McAllister. Artcraft Press,
Cortland, N. Y. Pp. 88. $4.50.

FAMOUS SPEEDDOATS OF THE WORLD, D.
Phillips-Birt. St. Martin’s Press, 175 5th
Ave., New York 10. Pp. 141. $4.00.

FIRST STROKES IN SWIMMING, Gerald Fors-
berg. Sportshelf, P. O. Box 634, New Ro-
chelle, N. Y. Pp. 131. $3.75.

HOW YOU CAN BOWL BETTER USING SELF-
HYPNOSIS, Jack Heise. Wilshire Book Co.,
8721 Sunset Blvd., Hollywood 46, Calif.
Pp. 120. Paper, $2.00.

INSTANT SKIING ON SHORT, Short SKIS, Cliff
Taylor. Stephen Greene Press, 120 Main
St., Brattlcboro, Vt. Pp. 80. Paper, $1.95.

101 THINGS TO DO WITII A BIKE, Lillian and
Godfrey Frankel. Sterling Publ., 419 Park
Ave. S., New York 16. Pp. 128. $2.50.

OUTBOARD BOATING HANDROOK, Hank Bow-
man. Fawcett Publications, 67 W. 44th
St., New York 35. Pp. 144. $.75.

 

MAGAZINE ARTICLES

 

CHALLENGE, May 1962
The Impact of Automation
TV Can Be Bctter, Harvey J. Levin.
JOHPER, February 1962
Special Issue on Teaching Tennis.
April 1962
Focus on Facilities: Planning Space for
Physical Activity.
Re-Creation Unlimited, Margaret L. Cor-
mack.
THE MUNICIPALITY, May 1962
Park and Recreation Planning for the Six-
ties, Malcolm Drummond.
NATIONAL PARKS MAGAZINE, May 1962
Iicre Corne the Rough Riders (motor scoot-
ers on forest trails), Frederick Eissfer.
NEA JOURNAL, May 1962
School Dropouts
OUR PURLIC LANDS,‘ April 1962
Outdoor Recreation Resources
SATURDAY EVENING POST, April 7, 14, 21, 28,
1962
The Menningers of Kansas
Steven M. Spencer.

 

(4 parts),

___.._.____.___, May 12, 1962

Maniacs on Wheels (drag strips), 0. D.
Shipley.

SIIORE AND BEACH,” April 1962

Long Beach Marina, Lawrence 17. Mc-
Dowell.

New Methods of Conserving Beach Sand,
William .1. Herron, Jr. and Robert L.
Harris.

WOMAN’S DAY, May 1962

The Story of American Needlework #12:

Candlewick, Rose Wiider Lane.

* Published quarterly hy the U.S. Bureau of
Land Management. Available from U.S. Su-
pcrintendent of Documents, Washingmn 25,
DC. $.15 per copy, $.60 annually.

** Published semi-annually by American
Shore and Beach Preservation Association,
810 18th St., N.W., Washington 6, DC. $4.00
annually.

RECREATION

Announcing . . . H
nee upon a time E there was a

’
NRA S ohairmanVHegiymr she@)was respons-
Life Insurance Plan ihle for ohtaig trophies “g7 awards
The National Recreation Association is and badges for Club events! sanmBn’s
Pleased to announce that a special low-cost COHlBSlS and tournaments  The
group life insurance coverage is now avail- chairman wrote % fof the Emblem and
able to all NRA Service Associates who are Badge catalog which saved‘fg‘gg  

either full- or part-time recreation em- . . All. To... .
s off Irst price. Everyone 3. 

plovees, volunteers, or college students

 
 
 

 

majoring in recreation. pleased  the awards“! M I, /
For details and application write to: hlm hls very own trophy :,// \{T from
F k R
ran owe Emblem & Badge Mfg. Co.
NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION . .
8 West 8th Street, New York 11, N.Y.  Plne Street! PrOVIdencer R' L

 

 
 
    
     

The signatures of these great sluggers appear only on the
barrel end of Famous Louisville Slugger Bats. Send for full
color catalog—address Dept. R.6.

HILLERICH & BRADSBY 00.

lOUISVIllE 2, KENTUCKY

When writing to our advertisers please. mention RECREATION.

HOW to give him an education
and the freedom to use it

Most current articles you read
about education are concerned
with the rising costs. But
chances are you’re more con-
cerned these days about the
kind of world your youngster
will graduate into.

U. S. Savings Bonds can help
make sure it’s a better and
safer one.

You see, the money you put
into Bonds does even more than
grow into a sizable fund for
his books and tuition. It helps
make sure he can study what
he wants, Where he wants. And
it helps Uncle Sam keep our
economy strong and free-——the
kind of an America you’d Want
your children to graduate into.

Why not start a college fund
with Savings Bonds? There’s
no better way to help your
country today and your young-
ster tomorrow.

 

Five Good Things You Get
with U.S. Savings Bonds

1. The U.S. Government guaran-
tees your investment.

2. You get 33/4% interest to matu-
rity.
3. Your Bonds are replaced free

   

; ' ‘ ‘ Fully mature—and still

The Communists covet the world. growing. Remember the big 1f IOSt'

Today they dominate 1,321; billion Bonds issued in the ’409? 4, You can get your money any-
people and 16 nations—one of them The earliest ones are now t' d 't

at our front door. One of the best worth 80% more than they lme you nee 1 '

ways we can oppose them is to keep cost, and are still growing 5- YOU can save aUtomatically
iinanmally strong individually and as in value. where you work.

a nation.

Buy an _eLtr_a Bond during the Freedom Bond Drive
f.“

{5 Keep freedom in your future with

This advertising is donated by 
The Advertising Council and this magazine. 0 o

