Henry Pfeit'fer Library g
Mac Murray College 1

  - Jacksonville. Illinois

1
NOV. 1 21952 I"

 

SERVING YOUTH
ROMUTING THE ARTS

 

 

-:~rll a: m . . . . PLAY
roll at out . . .TUCK IT AWAY

J"
.2

 

g“ in,

   
    

Any room can become a game room in seconds with the Sico
TUCK—AWAY. It rolls and unfolds quickly, safely. Exclusive
“Floating Fold” enables one person to open or close the
table in 3 seconds. Full regulation size—yet folds to only
18” x 60” for storing. US'I‘TA approved for official tourna-
ment play. The TUCK-AWAY provides an efficient solution
to the need for leisure time relaxation—in industry, hotels,
schools, hospitals, and other institutions. Get complete
information on the TUCK-AWAY by writing.

 MANUFACTURING COMPANY, INC.

5215 Eden Ave. 80., Minneapolis, Minn., Dept. 405.

 

nce upon a time  there was a

 

and badges for club events, salesmen’s
I

«’59-; ~ ’
contests and\ tournaments  The
chairman wrote __ an tor the Emblem and

Badge catalogwhich save him 50%

 

ego“ list price. Everyone-V;

pleased with the awards that they gave

~>—\ I -/:/,.._/

him his very own trophy 1- from

Emblem & Badge Mfg. Co.
68 Pine Street, Providence, R. I.

 

   
 

Dated and Undated

 

a Blue heavy simulated leather stamped in gold

0 Each holds one year’s issues

0 Opens flat for changes

RECREATION MAGAZINE

8 West Eighth Street, New York II

POWERFUL PATENTED PLUNGER CLEARS

0 Double cup, double-pressure
e Tapered tail gives air-tight fit
0 Designed to flex at any angle
0 Centers, can’t skid around

AVAILABLE AT YOUR HARDWARE SUPPLIER

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

Clear messy, stuffed toilets
But maintenance costs with

Ordinary plungers don’t seat
properly. They permit com-
pressed air and water to splash
back. Thus you not only have
a mess, but you lose the very
pressure you need to clear the
obstruction.

With “TOILAFLEX”, ex-
pressly designed for toilets, no
air or water can escape. The
full pressure plows through the
clogging mass and swishes it
down. Can’t missI

Get a “‘l’OllAFlEX“ far your home tea.
Pasitive insurance against stuffed tarIet.

$265

Higher in Canada

 

 

FUND RAISING

"Jim, .Swrzrzt and. (fang. 01am"

 

$240 to $20,000 can be raised by your group during your Fund

Raising Campaign using “The Sweet and Easy Way" to fund raising.

Give
Your Group

A Lift
Selling

Dutch Maid
Party Time Assortment

 

From Dutch Maid's spotless confection kitchens we bring you one
full pound of mouth-watering goodness, an assortment of delectable

milk chocolate-enrobed confections designed for and sold by fund

raising groups exclusively. NEVER SOLD IN STORES.

 

—————————————————————————— ——1
' I
   | Mr. Philip Emaus :
: Dutch Maid Quality Confection Kitchens I
60 Clii on Blvd.
I for : Cliftont. N. I. I
. I
Complete Informatlon I Name ...................................................................................................... .. :
on : Address ...................................................................................................  :
' I
[I I; I 1 ...................................................................... .. C! e ...................... ..
jha§wmtan¢£m Way. :CW SH i
Organization .......................................................................................... .. I
I
to : Phone ..................................................................................................... .. i
  : Age—if under 21 ...................................................................................  I

r
DOVEMBER: 1962 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 431

   
 

 

NOVEMBER 1962 VOL. LV NO. 9 PRICE 60c
Camera Highlights of the 44th National Recreation Congress . .......................................................... .. 4-36
People and events at a record-breaking meeting
Carpe Diem (Editorial) ............................................................................................................ .. Siebolt Frieswyk 441
Don’t include yourself out of the cultural life around you
The Human Values of Recreation ............................................................................................... .. Ruth Norris 4-4-2
Sound recreation breaks down barriers among people
A Community Calendar ........................................................................................................ .. Herbert L. Foster 44-4-
24 How to avoid duplication of dates and activities
a: .
% Ripe for Trouble .............................................................................................................................. .. John S. Nagy 445
3 Reversing the drift to delinquency '
Reservoirs for Recreation .......................................................  ...................................... ..  Eugene W. Weber 447
New policies for water-resource projects
The NRA District Advisory Committee Chairmen ...................................................................................... .. 451
They perform national as well as local recreation service
Our Forty-Fourth National Seashore ................................................................................. .. . ...................... .. 470
Padre Island is saved for posterity
2 Youth Serves the Community .................................................................................................. .. John Larnbrosa 453
g Teen board of directors promotes recreation activities
(D . .
2 The Church and Recreation ............................................................................................ .. . William R. Fortner 455
‘L The relation of church-sponsored and community recreation agencies
Discovering Primitive Artists .............................................................................................  ........ .. E. H. Regnier 4-56
Helping in the exciting development of self-taught painters
z
2 Recreation Administration in Metropolitan Areas (Part III) .......................................... .. George Butler 4-60
é Examples 0/ regional agencies '
U)
E State and Local Developments ........................................................................................... .. Elvira Delany 464
E, 0/ ski li/ts in New Hampshire, new cities in Virginia, and wildlife in Florida
<
E) Government and the Arts .......................................................................................... .. August Heckscher 467
g The arts as well as arms are necessary to a healthy society
5 Lettcrs 434 As We Go To Press 439 Arts and Crafts Corncr 458 Rcsearch Bricfs 4-63
E Rx for the Ill and Handicapped 471 Markct Ncws 472 Tradc Mart 473
g Reporter’s Notebook 475 ' New Publications 479
RECREATION is published monthly except July and August by the National Recreation Copyright. 1962. by the National _...
Association, a service organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 8 West Eightb “mew” A"°ci"i°”' I°°°'P°”'°d 
Street, New York 11, New York, is on file in public libraries and is indexed in the Readers’ Prioted in the U.S.A. "v".
Guide. Subscription $5.00 a year. Canadian and foreign subscription rate $5.75. Re-en-
tered as second-class matter April 25, 1950, at the Post 0$ce in New York, New York, DU CATIONAI. TI!- onlclu heroin
under Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided  ATION 5112'?  $51.71"???
for in Section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, autborized May 1, 1924. Microfilms of current 0F 27',§."‘;I:;?:,“§.°'..§;'.'2
issues available from University Microfilms, 313 N. First Street, Ann Arbor, Michigan. AMERICA m" M'w‘mu'
432 RECREATION

RECREATION .

. indispensable guide to systematic vacation programs.”

 

- Family Life
I'ditor in Chief, JOSEPH PRENDERGAST
Editor, DOROTHY DONALDSON G U I D E T O S U M M E R C A M P S
Assistant Editor, ELVIRA DELANY A N D S U M M E R S C H 0 O L S
ASSOCiate Editors Data and descriptions, including location, director’s name and winter ad-
Administration, GEORGE BUTLER dress, enrollment and fees, facilities and featured activities, are presented

for private resident camps, tours, unusual opportunities, academic sessions
and programs for the handicapped and maladjusted.

1962, 13th ed., 320 pp., cloth $4.40, paper $2.20

Program, VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

Business Manager

FRANK ROWE
Order from

Advertising Manager
PORTER SARGENT 11 Beacon St., Boston 8, Mass.

ESTA GLUCK

 

On a. co...- WHULESALE SPORTS CATALOG

What greater thrill? The joys of tish- 64'Page Elghi'COIOV caialc’g Wiih
ing, of dreaming and watching under a Hundreds of Athletic Equipment

blue Skye 0f landing a big ’un are avail' Items, Games and Sports Films.

able to more pe0ple today than ever Over 30 000 schools Use our

before (see Page 447) and this sport
holds a prominent place in the national Pmduds' s°f+bau5 ' 65°? Tum'

outdoor recreation scene. This photo- but“! Mai-“"9335: Si°Pwa+°hes'
graph, taken on one of the pine-fringed $5.99; etc.

lakes of Maine made available for pub-
lic use by a paper company, is used
through courtesy of the International
Paper Company, New York.

Send 10: for Postage, Matting

JUDO SUITS ° KARATE SUITS
Best Quality — Lowest Prlces

Honda Associates, Inc.

66 West 47th St.. New York 36. N. Y.
Write for Free Catalog

Next Month IIIHumIIIIIIIIIIIIIII-mmlmluumlnummull

Watch for the report of the 44th Na-

tional Recreation Congress in Phila-
delphia, more Congress pictures (see  B E

Page 436), excerpts from some of the

speeches—especiallythatofDr. Ethel     

Alpenfels on “Man—His Nature as an
IndIVIdual” and Dr. Luther Gulick on      
“The Challenge to Recreation Today.”
Other solid feature articles of current
interest will cover “The County’s Role
in Recreation,” “Unincorporated Ar-
eas,” and “More Recreation on Less
Land” (multiple-use policy for Bureau
of Reclamation areas), and an analysis
of current trends in population expan-
sion and acquisition of local park acre-
age. “Getting Community Support for a
Park Plan” will be helpful to many
small communities faced with this and
similar problems. There will also be

ideas for Christmas parties and winter
activities.

To:
WOLVERINE SPORTS SUPPLY

3666 South State Street
Ann Arbor, Michigan

 

o Acoustically balanced polycylindrical
taces achieve rich, tull and blended
concert lones.

o Integral four toot self-supporting ceil-
ing requires no rigging or special
lines.

o Light-weight nesting segments are
readily stored, transported and
erected.

For further information write

area; FITniE. tie-nit
t DIV. 6-A
I 25 Belden Ave.. Norwallr. term.

I N a m e -----H.----—u—--_-‘~-.—-¢ .lvbvvuut“—*"m

Photo Credits

Page 447, National Park Service;
451, (Bird) George Moody, News-Free
Press, Chattanooga, Tennessee; 452,

(Smith) Whitefoot Studio, Vancouver, Organization . "h--- .-_

 

British Columbia; (Dukes) Studio IAddress  ._-..- ..

Charles, Fort Pierce, Florida; (Hamil- i , ,  I

[011) John Rose Portraits, San Antonio, Eneolee Slagecratl portable outdoor shell at Goucher  " ' ion?” Tia—1'.”

Texas; 475, Arthur Leipzig, East Mead- College. Towson. Maryland. '- ---------- —-—-

ow, New York.

NOVEMBER, 1962 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 433

 

Beautiful Taal Lake in the Philippines

For your life’s most
rewarding experience

join the 1963
Reund-the-World tour

Now you can travel completely around the
world with a group of people who will share
your interests and fun—people you'll really
like. You'll share the excitement of traveling
on a fine cruise ship, reserved dcluxe buses.
modern tet plan‘s. You can enjoy mee‘ing
with other youth workers in foreign lands,
see important people and places on five con-
tinents. Best of all, you can do all this at

a price far below usual for a tour this ex—
tensive.

You can sail either late-June or mid-Scptem-
ber from America’s West Coast and, as you
enjoy the sunny days at sea, look forward to
Honolulu. Japan, Hong Kong, Australia. Egypt
and many other wonderful lands. When you
arrive in Europe. your own bus and courier
will be waiting to take you through the beau-
tiful countryside to many famous cities. In
November, your final adventure will be a jet
flight across the Atlantic to New York. Col-

lege credit may be earned during summer
tour.

How can these tours offer all this at a far»
below-usual cost? (Minimum tour cost about
$1,400.) We do it by traveling outside the busy
tourist season, when prices are lower. We
take advantage of lower rates to groups. We
work with expert travel planners, who know
how to save your money and still obtain
quality in transportation and accommoda-
tions.

Your place on the 1963 Round-the-World tour
is waiting. It can be the trip you've dreamed
of—fun, new friends. time to sightsee and
learn. to rest and to play.

Write Now For Free Tour Brochure

Mary & Howard Galloway
Dept. R, Camping Magazine
1114 South Ave.. Plaintield, N. J.

Please send Round-the-World Tour
data, without obligation.

Name . .

City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
{tine Sailing I]

Sept. Sailing [1 I

'434

  
 
 
 
   
 

“Shopping Centers”

Sirs:

New concepts in family livinguprod-
ucts of more than just increased leisure
time—have been blossoming through-
out the country in the past few years
under the banners of commercial proj-
ects, public supervised programs, and
family ingenuity. The tremendously in-
creased sales of camping equipment,
boats and boating accessories. leisure
attire, etcetera reflect the marked in-
crease in family activity.

To meet the growing demand for fa-
cilities, equipment, and areas for this
family use of increasing leisure time, I
believe one facet of recreation is being
expanded throughout the country with-
out iust notice in the “Rccreation
Field.” This is in private and semi-
private family clubs—bringing the
country club down to the middle-income
level—placcs where the family can ei-
ther participate in activities together or
scparately, all within the confines of onc
area.

The idea is currently lifting its head
in commercial public recreation areas
also: dining, bar, and nursery programs
in bowling alleys; ice-skating rinks in
shopping ccntcrs; community centers
with swimming pools and ice rinks;
motel spas; packaged resort wcekcnds;
etcetera. But I would like to bring out
the private aspects of this situation. Cer-
tainly desegregation. crowded puhlic
facilities, the search for prestige and
security bring families to search for the
private areas that can mcet thcir rec-
reation needs—just as the key club is
attractive to the single person.

Now, what do We have in the nature
of private areas? Clubs, certainly. How-
ever, most cluhs are .operated to meet
specific desircs—to play golf. to enter-
tain business associatcs, to swim, to fish,
etcetera. Now increased leisure time,
increased communications, and in-
creased transportation facilities come
into the picture. Why not combine all
of these into one single area, minimizing
time, complexity, transportation costs,
etcetera, and make it available to more
than simply the wealthy!

Through bond issues. incorporation,

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

LETTERSI

Readers are invited to share their

views on these pages. Comments
of general interest are always wel-

come. -——- The Editors.

and private capital, these places are now
pepping up here and there—places like
the Dorchester Club in Bolton, Illinois,
where there is a year-round program of
activities for all ages—for only $10.00
per family pcr month (plus a nominal
initial membership fee payable once
only) . Certainly this broadens the scope
of families that can afford it—an inex-
pensive price for private facilities.
(With proper layout, proper furnishings
and proper managcment, it can also be
made magnificent—attractive to the
upper-bracket families also) .

At a club such as this, a Sunday may
see the family come out around noon-
time, and, intermingled with a day of
swimming, sunning, and splash fun,
Dad will play a rollicking game of soft-
ball with his friends while the kids par-
ticipate in games and crafts. They will
adjourn to the dining room for a family
dinner, after which Mom and the kids
will watch the club’s feature movie,
while Dad plays cards—thus complet-
ing a full day of leisure-time activity
among fricnds, without thc interference
of daily routine. This type of family
day can he repeatcd seven days a week.

It is also dcsirablc for an area of this
typc to be located completely out of the
congestion of city living—out in the
open country for fresh air and an escape
from reality—away from the normal en-
vironment and routine of the day.

So now we have a new conccpt in pri-
vate recreation, a step let-tween the coun-
try club and the YMCA, the important
step that community centers do not nor-
mally reacb—thc upper-middle and up-
per-income family that wants privacy
and a little prestige, without sacrificing
enioyment and scope of program. This
is the “Recreation Shopping Centcr”—
an idea that will explode throughout the
country, givcn tirnc. capital. proper
management, and an understanding of
changing family needs and desires.

RICK LAMBAKIS, Assistant Manager.

The Dorchester Club, Dalton, Illinois.
0 We would appreciate our readers‘
reactions to the views expressed above.

-—-Ed. .

Dishonest Use

Sirs:
“Creative” is an honest word that suf-

RECREATION

f grs from dishonest use. There is no law
t) protect it from the exploiter who sells
lis “busy work projects” under the
guise of the “creative” stamp. Justice
it this case can only be done by teaching
: 11r leaders to judge the true quality of
creative program. When our leaders
i'iscriminate between “falsely labeled
irojects” and those that develop the aes-
hetic sense the public confusion over
he word will fade.
GLADYS CONNER, Acting Supervisor
of Arts and Crafts, Bureau of Recrea-
tion, Dayton, Ohio.

The Right to Have Fun
Sirs:

The right to have fun is the gift of
God to every child. For our own chil-
dren this is accepted as basic truth for
which we demonstrate the greatest en-
thusiasm. At home, nursery school,
playground, swimming pool, and camp,
with the Girl Scouts, Boy Scouts and
Little Leaguers, the opportunities pro-
.Vided for voluntary and supervised rec-
reation are virtually unlimited. How-
ever, this is not the happy situation for
all the children of America. The fact
may seem incredible, but it is true, nev-
ertheless, that today we are denying the
enjoyment of play to more than a bun-
dred thousand of our children, the OE-
spring of the migrant farm laborers
whom the U.S. Children’s Bureau has

named as our most neglected class of
children.

From‘ New York to California and
Michigan to Texas, in a total of thirty-
five states where migrant families seek
work, the same sordid picture is pre-
sented: that of throngs of children bare-
ly existing in labor camps. In such places
they do not have swings, slides. picture
books, Flowers, trees, green grass, and
other conceivable objects of beauty con-
sidered essential to a good life. An eter-

nal environment of dust, rocks and
sticks is their lot.

These are the disinherited children of
America—and they live so close to our
comfortable homes. Sometimes they are
called “Forgotten Children,” but when
did the American people ever remember
them? Their neglect is so thoughtless
and so reprehensible!

These judgments on society may seem
strong, but they are well considered, af-
ter ten years of my life devoted to the
welfare of migrant children. Every
summer I have visited dozens of camps
housing migrant families and received
Heports on many others over the nation:
yet, in very few instances have 1 learned
of any form of recreation bcing pro-
vided for the children. In such emer-
gency of total neglect, society must take
over. This means, in effect, that the
churches, youth groups, and concerned

NOVEMBER. 1962

individuals of the nearest community
must care for these children in the name
of humanity.

The migrant labor camps everywhere
I find so unnecessarily ugly and joyless.
Most recently I visited one in a commu-
nity that prides itself on giving its own
children everything. As I entered the
grounds, children ran out to greet me.
The grounds, covering perhaps half an
acre, were bare of grass, except for one
small spot under a scraggly tree in the
far corner. The children were playing
with rocks and sticks in the dust because
they had no toys.

So much could be done with so little
initiative. All that was needed was for
someone to lay out a playground of
about ten feet square in the grassy cor-

ner of the grounds and set up a sandbox,
together 'with a combination swing and

slide set. Anyone can make a sandbox
at a cost of a dollar, while swings and
slide would cost no more than $25. This
small amount could be raised through
a church dinner or from a special church
collection for this purpose.

This was a typical migrant camp I
visited. There are thousands of its kind
over the United States; one will be with-
in easy reach of your home. Do you
know of anyone, with about $25 in his
pocket, who is looking for a growth in-
vestment in human happiness paying
the biggest dividends imaginable? If
you do, tell him or her what a wonderful
blessing a playground can be to the
children of a migrant camp.

‘Ci’RUS KARRAKER, President, Penn-
sylvania Citizens” Committee on Mt-

grant Labor, I no, 1137 Market Street,

Lewisburg, Pennsylvania.

 

R. LLER
S KAT IN re

recreation t/ont entertains more people

 
   
 
  
  

New Rubber-Plastic Wheels are kind to gym flours

Not only do these new Duryte rubbcr- plastic wheels
outwear orhcrs, they give the skater more traction
and smoother rolling. They are guaranteed nor to
mar or scratch the floors. Write for free details on
roller skating programs and skating equipment.

in [en space. . .

Roller skating is a Sport enjoyed by the
young in heart. A gym, hall or any other
smooth surface makes a fine skating area,
and there 15 no damage to the floor if
proper skates are used Little equipment IS
needed . . little supervnston 15 required
That's why more and more schools and
churches have roller skating programs—
and many offbeat make money by charging a
nominal fee for skating. Write today for
free information.

     

 

West Loke, Chicago 24, Illinois

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

435

      
             
   
 

CAMERA HIGHLIGHTS  ,

of the 44th National Recreation Congress wk.  ; l
Philadelphia - 1962

V.“  _  f,» w _.

Exceptional Service. Helen Dauncey,
retired social recreation specialist of
the National Recreation Association, re-
ceives the Air Force Exceptional Serv-
, ices Award from Colonel Guy N. Blair,
‘ chief of the Air Force Special Services.

Awards. Donors and receivers of awards at the NRA Lunch-eon. From left K now—"me. William T, Cavanaugh,
to right: Colonel Guy N. Blair and Helen Dauncey (see above); Mrs. Forrest executive director, secretary, and (reds.
I rwin presented Girl Scout award to NRA, accepted by Susan Lee; Mrs. Les- mer of the National Ohice Management
sing A. Rosenwald and Mr. Rosenwald, honored by NRA for their gift of Association, addresses the 7th National
Alverthorpe Park to Abingdon Township, Pennsylvania; Sam Daroff gave Institute for Public Recreation Execu.

Pep Warner award to Bob Crawford, who gave A RS award to George Hjeltc. tives which preceded the Congress.

National Recreation Association Board Meeting. dent Dr. Luther Gulick, and Mrs. Richard E. Ricgel. Rcar
Front row, left to right, Mrs. Paul Gallagher, Vice-President row, left to right: Sanger Robinson, George H jelte, .lamcs
Susan Lee, Chairman of the Board James Evans, Vice-Presi- Hudnall, Joseph Prcndergast, Carl Loeb, Bob Crawford.

I ,4
w Ii

'

l l} 

.' l; 

Music. Delegates thronged Convention Hall to hear a stir-
ring concert by the Robin Hood Dell Orchestra conducted by
Johnny Green with Met star Robert Merrill as soloist.

Encore! Three gentlemen from Canada express their delight

at the Robin Hood Dell Orchestra Concert. From left to
right, William A. Reid, George Ward, and I. A. Dulude.

American. Recreation. Society Board Meeting. Front
row, left to right: Lillian Summers, Edward Thacher, out-
going president William Frederickson, In, new'President

a.
3' ' “"4

‘5? \

V

M ummery. M u-‘sical presentations by the H egeman String
Band, prize-winning group from Philadelphia’s New Y ear’s
Day M unzniers Parade, added gala note to opening session.

NRA Luncheon. The Congress included many breakfast
meetings, luncheons, dinners, and the All-C ongress Banquet.

Lady with the polka-dot bow is ARS President Edith Ball.

‘-ml

Edith Ball, Executive Director Ray Butler, Lou'is Twardzik.
Rear row, left to right, Stewart Case, Beverly Sheffield,
Henry Swan, Oka Hester, Jesse Reynolds, Graham Shea.

 

 

438

Team Spirit can Soar

Make way for merriment. Your

Brunswick sports equipment has just

arrived. Talk about team spirit soar- stand by for flying action.

ing, this is it: the sports equipment
better teams are made of. Brunswick
sports equipment, of course. Includes
the complete MacGregor, Union

SPORTS

MacGregor, Red Head, Union Hardware
623 S. Wabash Ave... Chicago 5. Illinois

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

Baumka .

ED

Hardware and Red Head lines, too.
Try Brunswick sports equipment and

D I

RECREATION

 

 

REPORT ON ABS-NRA RELATIONSHIPS STUDY

A committee was appointed at a meeting of the joint boards of the National Rec-
reation Association and American Recreation Society on January 24, 1962 to ex-
pIore areas of cooperation between the two organizations. H ere are the findings
and actions of the committee as of October 2, 1962:

'1‘ THE National Recreation Associa-
A tion’s luncheon at the 1961 Na-
tional Recreation Congress, the chair-
man of the Association’s Board of
Directors took advantage of the pres-
ence of the president of the American
Recreation Society as a guest to extend
through him the invitation of the Asso-
ciation’s board for a joint meeting with
the Society’s board, at some mutually
convenient time “to explore the areas of
cooperation between the Society and the
Association to the end that the com-
bined strength of both can be used most
effectively for the good of the national
recreation movement.”

The following day, the incoming pres-
ident of the Society, at the Society’s an-
nual luncheon, referred to the existing
fragmentation in the recreation field,
saying: “We have not yet developed
working relationships based on mutual
trust and confidence among our organ-
izations and a sense of common cause.
This it will be my purpose to foster.”

The oint meeting of the boards was
held at the Association’s headquarters
in New York on January 24, 1962. The
luncheon, at which the NRA directors
acted as hosts, and the meeting which
followed, were attended by thirteen
members of the Association’s board and
nine members of the Society’s board.

The meeting was characterized by
frank, vigorous discussion in which all
participated. There was a gcneral con-
sensus that the recreation movement
stands on the threshold of tremendous
developments and that, if the challenges
of the future are to be met successfully,
all concerned must work closely to-
gether without confusion or conflict.

At the conclusion of the meeting, it
was unanimously voted that a commit-
tee be appointed consisting of three
members named by the American Rec-
reation Society and three members
named by the National Recreation Asso-
ciation plus the executive director of
each organization ex oflicio. The presiv
dent of the Society named Dr. Edith
Ball. Mr. Edward Thackcr, and Mr.
Graham Skea, and the board chairman
of the Association named Dr. Luther

NOVEMBER, 1962

Gulick, Miss Susan Lee, and Mr. Robert
Crawford. The committee was directed
to consider the area of cooperation to be
developed; to be independent in its
study, thinking, and recommendations;
and to report back to the joint commit-
tee composed of the two boards at the
1962 National Recreation Congress.

The committee had its first mecting
in Philadelphia on February 23, 1962.
Dr. Gulick was elected chairman; Dr.
Ball, vice-chairman; and Mr. Skea, sec-
retary. A general discussion was held
of all possible forms of relationship bc-
tween the two organizations and the
groups they represent, and certain spe-
cific suggestions were considered.

The committee concluded that its first
step should be to get the general views
and comments on this matter of all per-
sons and agencies interested in or sup-
porting either or both organizations. An
opinionnaire was developed, and some
10,250 opinionnaires were mailed out
on March 31, 1962 to all individual
members and chapters of the Society
and all service associates and affiliates
of the Association.

Less than two percent of the 2,837
opinionnaires returned were in favor of
entirely separate and independent or-
ganizations; some six percent were in
favor of the present relationships which
are based on specific agreements be-
tween the two organizations. such as
the Congress agreement: twenty-four
pcrcent were in favor of some sort of

federation of the two organizations;
and over sixty-six percent were in favor
of a complete merger and unification of
the two organizations.

A recap of the opinionnaire mailed
March 31 shows the percent of members
of each organization only, of both or-
ganizations, and of unspecified affilia-
tion who voted for each alternative list-
ed in the opinionnaire. Those alterna-
tives were:

A. A complete merger and unification
of both organizations and groups into
a single organization in which the rec-
reation professional and lay intercsts
of the country would have appropriate
representation at both the policy and
operating levels.

B. A formal and permanent structural
relationship between the two organiza-
tions, perhaps through a joint coordin-
ating board and joint committees work-
ing together on certain specific projects
with full freedom for each organization
to act independently on other matters.
C. A continuation of the present rela-
tionships between the two organizations
as set out in the October, 1950 Joint
Membership Statement implemented by
specific agreements, such as the October
22, 1958 agreement with reference to
the National Recreation Congresses for
the years 1959 through 1963. (See NRA
RECREATION. February 1951 or ARS
BULLETIN. February 15, 1951.)

D. Two separate and independent or-
ganizations which would go their sep-
arate and independent ways.

E. Other: (Please explain)

On July 27, 1962. a meeting of the
committee was held in New York. Two
members of the committee were not
able to be present. In light of the over-
whelming preference expressed in the

PERCENT OF EACH GROUP FOR EACH ALTERNATIVE

ARS ONLY
N0. Percent

NRA ONLY

ALTERNATIVE
N0. Percent

67.6

23.5
6.0
1.6 
1.3 t

A. Merger 729

214
45
19
27

70.5
20.7
4.4
1.8
2.6

B. Federation

C. Agreements

D. Separate
E. Other

1

It

i
MEMBERS 0r BorHl unsnrunrn
N0. Percent. N0. Percent

718
329
78
24
22

51

10
6.7 13
2.0 ' 3
1.9 | 2

61.3 |'
28.1 .

1

100.0 1; 1.034

100.0 n 1,171

 

100.0 H 19

opinionnaire for a complete merger, as
stated above, the committee unanimous-
ly voted that “the committee was duty
bound to explore ways and means of
implementing a merger.”

After further discussion, Dr. Guliek
and Dr. Ball were named to prepare
a recommended structure for presenta-
tion at the next meeting, and Mr. Butler
and Mr. Prendergast were to be avail-
able to them to assist on technical mat-
ters. Mr. Skea was asked to look into
the structures of a number of other or-
ganizations, and Mr. Thacker was re-
quested to present a statement of pur-
pose for consideration at the next meet-
ing.

A full meeting of the committee was
held in New York on September 14. Mr.
Thacker’s draft statement of purpose
was presented and discussed. Dr. Ball
reported on the material from other or-
ganizations which Mr. Skea had eolleet-
ed. The committee then unanimously
reaffirmed the resolution quoted above
which had been adopted at the July 27
meeting.

The committee defined the term mer-
ger as it relates to the closer relation-
ship of the Society and the Association
of the opinionnaire as follows:

“The complete merger and unification
of both organizations and groups into a
single organization in which the recrea-
tion professional and lay interests of the
country would have appropriate repre-
sentation at both the policy and operat-
ing levels.” This means that:

A. There would be a complete merger
and unification of both organizations
(the NRA and ARS) into a single or-
ganization.

B. There should be a complete merger
and unification of both groups (the
members and chapters of the Society
and the service associates and afiiliates
of the Association) into a single organ-
ization.

C. In the single organization, the rec-
reation profession should have appro-
priate representation at both the policy
and Operating levels.

D. In the single organization, the lay
interests of the country should have ap-
propriate representation at both the
policy and operating levels.

The committee in its deliberations
discussed some possible ways in which
a merger might be effected, but made
no attempt to spell out the details. It
was thought that the details will entail
long exploration and may not be com-
pleted for some time.

In the light of the findings to date,
the committee recommended the follow-
ing:

1. That a merger of some type be con-
sidered by the boards of the NRA and
ARS.

2. That, to save undue duplication of
effort and thinking. the same commit-

440

tce as now constituted be continued to
explore the ways and means of a merger
plan.

At the joint meeting of the Boards of
the Society and the Association held in
Philadelphia on October 1, 1962, during
the National Recreation Congress, it was
unanimously voted to accept and ap-
prove the committee’s report with the
following amendment to the committee’s
second recommendation set out above:
“That, to save undue duplication of ef-
fort and thinking, the same committee as
now constituted be continued and di-
rected to work out a plan to implement
a merger; said plan to be prepared with
a view to its submission to the respective
boards upon their separate convoca-
tions one year hence.”

Immediately after the joint meeting,
the Board of Directors of the Associa-
tion held a meeting at which it was unan-
imously voted “to approve the report of
the committee appointed at the January
24», 1962 meeting of the joint boards of
the American Recreation Society and the
National Recreation Association as pre-
sented to and amended at the meeting of
the joint boards on October 1. 1962.”

The President of the Society pre-
sented the Report of the Committee at
the Annual Meeting of the Society on
Tuesday, October 2. 1962. In present-
ing it he indicated that this was merely
a progress report and that the Commit-
tee was now charged with the responsi-
bility of developing a merger plan that
could he presented to the membership of
both organizations. In the discussion
that followed, it was clearly indicated
that the membership of the Society was
keenly interested and wanted to he kept
infor1ncd and have a part in the develop-
ment of the merger plan. In this meet-
ing, as in the meeting of the Joint
Boards. the need for a slow. deliberate
process was emphasized.

THINGS YOU' SHOULD KNOW

P TIIREE NATIONAL INSTITUTES pat-
terned after the National Institutes for
Public Recreation Executives conducted
by W. C. Sutherland for the National
Recreation Association are reported by
Henry McFarland of the New York
State Civil Service. The International
Firemen’s Association is organizing the
institutes.

t RECREATION AND PARK MERGER. The
Peoria. Illinois, Playground and Recre-
ation Board with the Peoria Park Dis-
triet. The superintendent of recreation
assumes the post of assistant director of
parks, in charge of recreation.

b END OF TnAvEL TAX. At midnight,
November 15, the ten percent transpor-
tation tax on rail, bus, and water travel
will end and the tax on air travel will be
reduced to five percent on purcly do-

mestic flights. On air travel begun or
completed outside the United States, the
domestic portion will be tax exempt un-

less a stopover of more than six hours
is made.

> NATIONAL CULTURAL CENTER WEEK.
President Kennedy has designated No-
vember 26 through December 2 as a
week during which organizations and
government agencies involved in foster-
ing the performing arts can join the
fund-raising campaign for the National
Cultural Center, planned for our na-
tion’s capital. Symphony orchestras,
universities, theaters, fraternal groups,
museums, publications, civic associa-
tions, and other organizations have
formed loeal committees to eo-sponsor
“An American Pageant of the Arts.” a
two—hour closed circuit telecast to be
seen at dinners and theatrical showings

in cities from coast to coast on Thurs-
day. November 29.

} SCHOOL RECREATION. The American
Association for Health, Physical Educa-
tion. and Recreation will hold its Second
National Conference on School Recrea-
tion at the NEA Center in Washington,
DC. from November 7-9. Approxi-
mately twenty national professional so-
cieties and agencies have been invited
to cooperate with AAHPER in this con-
ference. Representing the National Rec-
reation Association among the confer-
enee participants will be Joseph Pren-
dcrgast and George Butler.

t CAMPS FOR THE IIANDICAPPEI). The
National Society for Crippled Children
and Adults is seeking information on
camps which accept children or adults
with physical or mental handicaps. The
society, the American Academy of Pedi-
atrics, and the American Camping Asso-
ciation are now busily revising, for the
fourth time, the Directory of Camps for
the Handicapped and want to include as
many camps and as much up-to-date in-
formation as possible. If you know of
any camps that should appear in the
Directory and have not been listed up
to now, please write Mrs. Eveline E.
Jacobs, Camping Adviser, National So-

ciety for Crippled Children and Adults,
2023 West Ogden Avenue, Chicago 12.

> NEW FRONTIERS IN RECREATION is the
theme of the Third Annual Meeting of
the European Recreation Society to he
held in Berchtesgaden, Germany, No-

vember 16-18.

> THE CLOBBER SITUATION. Senator Hu-
hert H. Humphrey of Minnesota is urg-
ing American sports and civic leaders
to set up a private “United States Olym—
pie Foundation” to help prevent the
US. from “getting elohbered” in the
next Olympics.

Continued on Page 469

RECREATION

 

NOVEMBER, 1962

 

EDITORIAL

"CARPE DIEM"

HE ESTABLISHMENT of the new creative drama center by the Los Angeles
Recreation and Park Department represents one of the most important
advances ever made in the field of community recreation. It is a great

and magnificent accomplishment whose meaning and portent will not escape the
attention of those leaders who are seriously responding to modern concepts of
recreation. The center will i11Spire, challenge, and spur such forward thinkers

Siebolt Frieswyk

on to renewed thought, action, and enthusiasm.

On the other hand, in other instances it is distressing to see the construction
of a beautiful new civic center with every facility for enriching the recreation
program in which local recreation authorities have had little or no part. Liter-
ally scores of these new civic centers have come and are coming into being at the
present time. It is imperative that the recreation profession voluntarily eXpress
its full and complete interest in these projects, assist in planning, and see to it
that recreation, as Sam Goldwyn would put it, “is not included out.”

It is also distressing to see the spectacular expansion of cultural facilities and
training in our schools, colleges, and universities without evidence of these ex-
panded resources being reflected in the local community recreation programs.
If the modern concept of recreation is to be fully realized, new sources of lead-
ership simply must be cultivated and brought into the profession.

More than seventy arts councils have been created in the United States within
several years and the number is constantly growing. As has been demonstrated
in Waterloo, Iowa, and Richmond, Virginia, recreation can become a vital par-
ticipant in the arts council movement and should in every instance.

Seeing to it that recreation becomes involved in these new developments is
definitely not a matter of climbing aboard a bandwagon. Recreation has the
great task of bringing these new resources and all the people of the community
together for their mutual benefit.

Recreation does not recognize a “cultural elite” as the true end of American
democracy. Neither does it regard a “proliferation of mediocrity in the arts”
as its main purpose. Recreation today, as heretofore, seeks to provide all the
people with opportunities for each individual and society to experience new in-
terests and to live as creatively as possible.

The great new creative drama center of the Los Angeles Recreation and Park
Department is a stirring realization of a modern concept of recreation. We know
that many recreation leaders and programs are “included in.” Let it not be said
again that recreation has been “included out.” Carpe Diem! #

MR. FRIESWYK is consultant on the performing arts for the National Recreation Association.

441

m av absorb m our play are carried over into

The HUMAN
VALUES In
RECREATION

' t. .11.; of our lives

Ruth \Urris

 

5‘ BY, LOOKITl” called the littlc girl

H as she and a playmate were lean-
ing against a chain stretched across the
entrance to a New York City alley, “Me
and Gracie are in a institution . . . and
you gotta come see us!” It seems to be
common knowledge on this block that
some people get put in institutions and
other people come to see them. Thus. the children’s game
tells us something about the neighborhood, its people, and

 

 

 

MRS. NORRIS is on the stat} of the Eastern Cooperative Rec-
reation School, a part-time faculty member at the New York

School 0/ Social W ork, Columbia University, and has been

a consultant in. youth leadership training for the US. State
Department in Germany.

442

their patterns of behavior; but children’s galncs are not the
only kind that indicate social patterns. All play and art re-
flect the values of the civilization that gave thc1n birth; and
they go further; thc values we absorh in our games are car-
ried into other areas of our lives and form the bases of our
other relationships. Thus, play not only reflects our values;
it also helps to form them.

Recreation can he an important aid in estahlishing sound
human values. It can offer play activities that stimulate a
person’s energy, initiative, and the use of his total self. It
can teach him to laugh and be joyful in thc use of his mus-
cles, rhythms, and those feelings that too often go unex-
pressed in the seriousness of everyday life. It can help him
to be himself, to achieve self-realization and self-exprcssion.

RECREATION

Each personality is a growing thing, nourished by respect
and love. In terms of recreation, each person moves at his
own pace toward self-expression and diverse play forms,
and sometimes the individual’s self-realization and release
are helped best by activities that are essentially individual,
such as crafts, painting and hobbies, for example. Some-
times they are encouraged by activities that demand inter-
action with other people, such as dramatics or folk dancing.
But whichever, the individual should be “comfortable” in
his recreation environment; it will support him—provided
the group leader is concerned with basic human values.

In such a group—in folk dancing, for instance—the ac-
cent is on enjoyment of the medium itself, on learning the
steps as an aid in making the total group as much fun as pos-
,sible. The positive is stressed; the leader does not penalize
an awkward dancer by pointing out his missteps; instead,
the leader continually points out the right steps, in order to
help the dancer correct himself. The tense person finds that
nothing “bad” happens to him when he makes a mistake.
The dances themselves are chosen so as to provide the op-
portunity for learning self-confidence and poise and the
ability to “unbend.” Thus, the group activity becomes hoth
a means and an end. The group promotes individual growth
—and as the individual grows and improves in his skill, the
group activity itself becomes more valid and meaningful.

What kinds of recreation materials are most conducive
to these ends? Folk materials are the first resource to be
tapped. Dances that are a spontaneous expression of the
gaiety of neighbors who like each other are a heritage from
many peoples. These dances provide a release within a
rhythmic social pattern. Folk songs. too, well up from peo-

ple and should be included.

Some feel that any game that makes a group laugh is a
good game. So, without thinking, they use as icebreakers
games which make a person or a small group the butt of
ridicule; that intensify the unbearablc isolation that shy
pe0ple experience when the spotlight is turned on then}; that
provide opportunities for the showoff to set himself even
further apart from the group—games that are thoroughly
divisive in spite of the fact that they make people laugh.

Sound recreation helps break down the barriers between
people—-——barriers that may be individual problems like shy-
ness or exhibitionism, or barriers that are racial, economic,
or religious. To unify a group, we might choose a game

like Name Six:

In this game, the players sit in a circle while a ball or any
other object is passed from hand to hand. One person plays
the. piano or sings, and suddenly stops. Whoever has the
ball at this moment is “It.” The musician (or another
player previously selected) says “Name six objects begin-
ning with the letter-D.” “It” then starts the ball around the
circle, and those in the circle pass it around as quickly as
possible. Before the ball returns to “It,” he has to name
any six objects beginning with the letter D.

The fun of Name Six comes from many factors: the ab-
surd words that pop into people’s minds; the realization that
you can usually think of words when you are not “It” but
cannot when you are; and the whole group’s delight—often
expressed in applause—~whenever “It” does get his words

NOVEMBER, 1962

out on time. The key to the fun is, of course, that the players
are trying to beat a situation and not each other.

Competitive games should not be ruled out; but when they
have unfortunate effects on attitudes and behavior, the fault
usually lies in how and why they were played, and not in the
games themselves. A successful recreation leader will help
the participants play with everything they have and enable
them to accept defeat without rancor and victory without
arrogance.

ANDCRAFTS can also start the ball rolling. The satisfac-
H tion of making something ourselves and our pride in our
own good workmanship are largely denied us in these days of
machinery and automation. It is not possible nor desirable,
of course, to turn the clock back to the days of hand-pegged
houses and handwoven clothes; but we still need and enjoy
the sense of achievement that comes from hammering a piece
of copper into a pleasing shape or tooling a design in leather.
In the process, we develop the freedom that comes with con-
fidence; an awareness of simple line and color; the apprecia-
tion of beauty in familiar objects; “good taste.” This taste
is not always apparent with the first ring of mallet on pewter,
and we often shudder at the initial crude results; but an ex-
amination of peasant crafts teaches us that people develop
a style of their own-—-—a style which never could have come
into being if they had set out to copy other people’s designs.

The social values of crafts are not as apparent as those of
folk dancing and singing, and probably are not as great.
Crafts require less social integration and do not unify a
group as much as other recreation activities. Still, they
reach people who might not be reached other ways and are
an avenue to the more shy and isolated ones.

Dramatics demand and return the most social integration.
It is obvious that the absence of one cast member can ruin
an entire rehearsal—but the interdependence of people put-
ting on a play is far more fundamental than this. A play is
not the sum of individual performances; it is an organic
whole which grows out of the impact of the actors on each

Continued on Page 478

 

Over a million guitars were sold last year, evidence of the
revival of interest in follc music sweeping over the country.

443

A COMMUNITY CALENDAR

Compiled and published by the Sloatsburg Recreation Commission,

this has saved many programs from becoming a “flop”

Herbert L. Foster

The PA system was hooked up,
records stacked alongside; the refresh-
ment table was decoratively arranged.
A square dance was scheduled. Three
men stood in a corner and communi-
cated in hushed tones. Two women sat,
heads leaning listlessly on their hands,
waiting. One of the men gazed at the
9:45 showing on the clock. Disgusted,
he said, “We’ll wait ’til ten. If no one
else shows, we’ll close up.” At 10:01
they acknowledged defeat, put every-
thing away, and left. . . .

On another, more successful evening,
an overflow crowd of more than three
thousand children and parents showed
off their costumes, laughed and enjoyed
refreshments at the recreation commis-

sion’s annual Halloween Party. What
made the difference?

'I- 'l- I- *-

THESE TWO EVENTS took place in the
village of Sloatsburg, New York, within
a six-month period. The year before,
the Sloatsburg Recreation Commission
had sponsored a similar square dance
that was successful. “Why then the
failure this year?” The answer was
simple . . other village and area or-
ganizations with definite membership
had held activities the same evening.

This left few village residents available
to attend the square dance.

The village of Sloatsburg has a popu-
lation of approximately twenty-seven
hundred. For the past six or seven
years, the village has undergone a popu-
lation increase hringing about the usual
“new” and “old” divisions. Physically,
Sloatsburg is divided almost in half by
a well-traveled major state highway.
One weekly and two daily newspapers
serve the general area; hut none serves
the village exclusively.

Churches, a volunteer fire depart-

————.___.___________________
MR. FOSTER is chairman of the recrea-

tion commission in Sloatsburg, N. Y.

444

 

1nent, volunteer ambulance corps, Cub
and Boy Scouts, Brownies and Girl
Scouts, and the recreation commission
are among the organizations providing
activities for village residents. The
commission learned that established
clubs and organizations were not at-
tracting new residents as members.
Many of the “new” residents were not
aware of these organized groups, their
“city frame of reference” having ill-

   

  

g_‘-W* " f-
“ ' wuu mm: 

-—-—‘-_

._. -"' “-‘F' 7'
‘mmmmmm j

I_aII-I
lanaiwi
Iiamiai
aiaiiwi
HIE-I-l'

The Sloatsburg Community Calendar is
press board mounted in a wooden frame.
The lines are drawn with a markin g pen.

  
   

    

 

prepared them for the desirability or
need of these community organizations.
Occasionally, good, well-attended pro-
grams fell apart when new activities
were started for age groups already
saturated with organized
programs.

On two occasions, two organizations
attempted to hold fund-raising affairs

recreation

on the same evening, neither aware of
the other’s activity until too late. This
happened in other areas of program,
too. and created problems since there
just were not enough interested people
to support two events at once and, as
usual. some residents belonged to both
sponsoring organizations.

In an attempt to remedy some of
these situations, the recreation commis-
sion set up a Community Calendar.
Specifically, the calendar was devised
to help prevent a duplication of activi-

ties by listing and publishing all the
different community activities and
events. Village organizations were re-
quested (via a letter to all organiza-
tions) to notify the recreation commis-
sion’s executive secretary by the third
Monday of every month of planned ac-
tivities (including regular meetings)
for the following month or months.

This data, listing the name of the
organizations, the activity, where the
activity is being held, time, possible
cost, possible guest speaker, etcetera,
is now compiled and published through
a monthly mimeographed flyer. In ad-
dition, it is posted on a large Commu-
nity Calendar located in the window of
the Village Office where it remains for
the month.

Copies of the mirneographed calen-
dar are mailed to all local organizations
and newspapers. Quantities are placed
on the counters of village stores and a
supply sent to the village elementary
school for distribution to the children.

The Community Calendar is a big
success, no question about it. A great
many residents now actually look for-
ward to its issuance and more people
than ever before are aware of and are
taking an active part in the many vil-
lage activities. As residents meet and
work through these organizations, the
feeling that this is our village is slowly
replacing the old and new antagonisms.

Anyone wishing to reproduce a simi-
lar calendar should note the following:
The calendar is made of press hoard
mounted in a wooden frame. Lines on
the hoard are drawn with a marking
pen. Month, year, and dates slide in
and out of metal (tinplate) holders.
The holders are made by bending over
the top and bottom one-fourth inch of
a piece of tin plate and glueing and
nailing them to the press hoard. Hasps
are used to affix the Community Calen-
dar to the window studs. #

RECREATION

Unaffiliated youth

pat recreation skills
to the test . . .

John S. Nagy

(I‘m; Bureau of

Specialized
Services is one of
the most important
in Cleveland, Ohio,
Division of Recrea-
tion. Through this

bureau, the tools of
recreation—sports, crafts, learning, en-

 

tertainment—are used in the commu-
nity’s struggle to solve the problems of

youth which are present in Cleveland as
in every large city. The bureau attempts

to find and identify groups classified as
“unaffiliated,” the boys and girls who

 

MR. NAGY is commissioner of recreation

in Cleveland, Ohio.

RIPE F OR TROUBLE

g

are “loners,’ who may grOUp in a
small way without direction or purpose,
who may then combine with similar
groups into gangs that act under hys-
teria. They are the youngsters who ig-
nore the YMCA, YWCA, the recreation
center, the church, the social club; they
don’t join any organized athletics or so-
cial activity; they are without direction,
purpose, or interest and so are easily
led or passively slip into trouble.

Once these youngsters are located,
the bureau staff, through personal con-
tact, attempts to use recreation skills to
maintain contact and persuade them to
share in some leisure-type activity, to
throw a baseball or football instead of
a rock or knife. The bureau’s work has

The tough job is to break the ice, to find the right approach to “toners” without direction, purpose, or identifiable interests.

 

O

\p‘w

II-II I.

15'! -

_-——-

0

NOVEMBER, 1962

 inevitably, on a trial-and-error

goal is many years old but its

( '1 is new and continues to build

: l  it-nee. Since its installation in

h it has been guided by Mrs. Flor-

 3. Fairfax, one of the outstanding

l» (utters in recreation work in this coun-

t1), for whom one of Cleveland’s mil-

lion-dollar recreation centers has been
named.

HE START was in 1951 when Cleve-
land became concerned about un-
afliliated youth and the Cleveland
Young Adult Council came into being,
a volunteer group with a good cross-
section of interested persons. As super-
intendent of recreation centers for the
recreation division, Mrs. Fairfax was
immediately attached to the program
and its purpose although on a voluntary
basis. She soon realized a more direct
and forceful approach was necessary.
Hence the bureau.

Mrs. Fairfax, working out ideas with
the recreation commissioner, realized
the value of names. Youngsters tend to
hero-worship. She determined that peo-
ple who were to reach the youngsters
had to be leaders. Among her early re-
cruits were some famous professional
football players living in Cleveland: Bill
Willis of the Cleveland Browns, Chet
Mutryn of the Buffalo Bills, Don Mc-
Cafferty of the New York Giants. All

had been college stars and pro players;
the youngsters knew who they were.
This was an avenue of approach, the
first step in reaching the target but the
hardest.

The bureau now has a staff of fifteen
or sixteen, most of them working in the
field. They are required to have skills
to pass on—sports, crafts, or whatever;
they must hold current first-aid and life-
saving cards. The bureau, as part of the
Division of Recreation, has no distinct
budget but it runs close to $50,000 a
year. Incidentally, the budget includes
such equipment as boxing gloves, tennis
rackets, tools to be used in making the
contacts.

was Tue YEARS various techniques
have evolved. A bureau staff mem-
ber approaching two or three young-
sters hanging around a corner and sug-
gesting they go to a center to join a
group or to organize a team gets short
shrift. liut, if he has boxing gloves in
view, or his portable radio is playing
youngsters’ music. or he has craft items
to be seen——-anything to attract attention
and interest——he has a chance to become
a friend.

The first step is to get the boys and
girls interested in doing something on
the wholesome side. Once they have
sampled, thd’next step is to “refer” them
into an organized activity. The bureau’s

 

— INDOORS OR
OUTDOORS WITH

 

Rainy Day
Fun for Kids

by Claire Cox

595 fun and easy ways to keep
kids of any age happily busy
Indoors: things to make out
ofowhat you have on hand.
quizzes to make them think.
games to use up their surplus
energy. skits and stunts for a
party. and a lot more. Initial
sections list them for easy
picking according to where
you are, the group on hand.
and the materials available.

There's even fun for a sick
child. $3.95

at bookstores or from

The Book of
Outdoor Winter
Activities

by Gunnar Peterson 8.
Harry Edgren

Recommended by Recreation
as “a key resource for your
library", this big new pack-
age of winter fun brings you:
new games for skaters. skiers,
hikers. coasters. or ball play-
ers: new program ideas for
your winter carnival, hobby
projects and much more, with
expert advice on safety. plan-
ning and equipment. $4.50

ASSOCIATION PRESS

446

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

Fun with Brand-

New Games

by Allan 8.
Paulette Macfarlan

Any recreation planner can
quickly organize fun-sparking
entertainment from this
wealth of original. all-occa-
sion games. Whether you need
fun for 5-year-olds. tccns. or
adults. for a day outdoors or
an indoor evening—it’s all
here. “Any group leader will
welcome the freshening effect
this book provides.”—-Jourmzl
of Physical Education $3.50.

291 Broadway,
New York 7, N. Y.

 

last annual report (1960) suggests what
is being accomplished through this type
of program.

Little Celtics Basketball: Twenty-one
teams, 257 players. Three teams joined
centers. The champion team saved
enough money to buy its own uniforms,
bright red and white, and is now in the
Muny Baskethall League.

Little Indians Softball: Nineteen groups,
233 boys in one section, 26 groups and
368 boys (plus 22 girls) in another sec-
tion. Seven of the groups (teams) ad-
vanced to the Cleveland Softball League
program.

Toueli Football: Fifteen groups played
informal but regular games. Of these
twelve joined agencies or centers.
CrHafts: Four groups, 121 boys and girls,
were reached through enameling on
metal and wire work.

Special Activities: Visits to a new arti-
ficial ice-skating rink, trcasurc hunts in
parks, basketball clinics and foul-shoot-
ing contests, talk on “hotrods,” spring
cookout, outings in parks, hikes, free
tickets to Cleveland Barons hockey
game.

The total boys and girls reached
through the year was 2,809, of whom
more than ninety percent were eventu-
ally related to a recreation facility.
These are boys and girls who had heen
ripe for trouble. All this does not guar-
antee that a boy or girl in a center or
church won’t get into trouble. But a
gain and a hyproduct is uncovering
leadership within the unaffiliated group,
what Mrs. Fairfax calls the alumni. She
has a story about one, a graduate of a
juvenile gang. He called her to obiect
to a teenage dance a nephew was sched-
ulcd to attend. He was indignant—the
group. age twclve to eighteen, was to
be in swcaters and jeans, there wasn’t
enough adult supervision, some kids
smoked. That’s dangerous, he com-
plained—this from one who had himself
roamed wild over Cleveland streets.

The problem is great, in Cleveland as
in other cities; at times. it appears as
impossihlc as bailing out the Pacific
Ocean; but, here and there, a youngster
is gained, then another. It’s a fight. but
the progress, minute as it may he, is
there; and, very important, it’s an ef-
fort. As we must fight to keep our liber-
ties, we must fight to keep our people

decent. #

RECREATION

  

 

Shadow Mountain National Recreation Area, Colorado.

RESER VOIRS fo r RECREA TION

New eddies in water resource development

Eugene W. Weber

‘7‘. RESERVOIRS constructed primarily for
h Hood control, power development,
navigation, irrigation, water supply,
and similar purposes have become an
important recreation resource. The fed-
eral reservoirs constructed hy the Corps
of Engineers, the Bureau of Reclama-
tion, and the Tennessee Valley Authori-
ty currently experience a greater volume of recreation use
than the National Parks and National Forests combined.
Moreover, the demand for water-based recreation is in-
creasing rapidly. It has been estimated that by the year
2000 the recreation use of federal reservoirs may be scvcn
times greater than it was in 1960.

The rapid growth in, use and demand for recreation at
fcderal reservoirs has created important new prohlems in
policies, planning procedures, economic evaluation, and
cost sharing. While relatively definite statements of Con-
gressional and administrative policy became available with
the growth of federal activity in such aspects of water
resource development as navigation, flood control. irriga-
tion, hydropower and water supply, the definition of federal
policies on recreation as a purpose of water-resource pro-
jects has not been commensurate with the significance that
recreation use has suddenly assumed. ( See special articles
on water for recreation, RECREATION, Jane, 1962.)

MR. WEBER is chief of the Planning Division, Civil Works,

Corps of Engineers, Department of the A rniy, Washington,
D.C. This rnaterial was presented at the First American So-

ciety of Civil Engineers Water Resource Engineering C onjer-
ence in Omaha, Nebraska. Parts of this material also ap-
peared in Civil Engineering, September 1962.

NOVEMBER, 1962

In little more than a decade, the use made of multiple-
purpose restirvoirs for recreation has shown that there is
a growing demand for water-related outdoor recreation and
that water-resource deveIOpment projects have a great po-
tential for meeting this demand. Under the legislative
authorities and administrative policies applicable to 1960,
the Corps of Engineers was able to provide reasonably for
public recreation use of projects then in operation at a
very low cost but it became apparent that changes in poli-
cies were necessary to meet the growing need for water-
related recreation and to realize the full potential of water
resource projects to supply that need.

Recent developments toward the establishmcnt of public
policy in this field have served to define recreation policy
and objectives more clearly and to indicate that full con-
sideration should be given to recreation as a purpose of
federally financed water resource improvements. In water
resource project planning, recreation can now be treated

on the same basis as other project purposes. This requires
that: '

0 Projection of future needs should include estimates of
the prohable demand for recreation.
0 Projects should be designed to minimize loss of existing
and inherent recreation values.
0 Projects should be designed to permit realization of
their recreation potential to the-full extent justified by
the prospective demand.
0 Recreation should be evaluated on a basis comparable
to that used for other project purposes to insure that net
benefits, tangible and intangible, for all purposes are
maximized.

Prior to the enactment of the first general Flood Control

447

'. ‘ "‘30, t he federal government had constructed only
.v..irs. Construction of such projects on a large

--\ .m. in the late thirties but was at a standstill

: wrlul \Var II. After the war, the programs of the
_,— f " Jginecrs, the Bureau of Reclamation, and the

l\ ‘\ mun: greatly accelerated. During the late forties and
c 4r]; limes, major reservoirs were brought into operation
at markedlj increased rates. In these same postwar years
greater numbers of the nation’s citizens found themselves
with more leisure, with a greater margin of income over
the cost of subsistence, and with a means—the automobile
—-—of quickly reaching points at considerable distance from
their homes. All these develOpments combined to greatly
increase use of federal reservoirs for recreation. Recreation
use of projects constructed by the Corps of Engineers in-
creased nearly twenty-two times in a period of only four-
teen years. During 1960 federal reservoirs provided about
175,000,000 person-days of recreation. In the same year,
the visitation at the National Park system totaled about
72,000,000 and the visitation at National Forests, about

93,000,000.

THE MAGNITUDE 0F the recreation potential and use of
federal reservoirs was not foreseen and probably could
not have been fully anticipated by the planning and con-
struction agencies when, in the early thirties, the federal
government initiated the programs which brought most of
today’s projects into being. There was, at that time, no
basis for predicting that in the postwar period the personal
incomes and the leisure time of the American people would
rise so sharply or that these factors, in combination with
the increasing availability of the automobile and ease of
travel by all modes, would lead to such a demand for water-
based recreation. Furthermore, there was little indication
that the people and their representatives in Congress would
want the federal government to assume sucll responsibility
for providing for recreation use at federal reservoirs. It is
not surprising, therefore, that recreation was not one of
the purposes for which these reservoirs were authorized by
the Congress and that adequate provisions were not made
in the original plans for the facilities required to care for
the tremendous recreation pressure soon to be experienced.
This does not mean that no recreation use was anticipatcd.
It has been demonstrated at reservoirs, such as the Lake
on the Ozarks, created by a power dam constructed by a
public utility in 1931, that the recreationist would be
strongly attracted.

The Bureau of Reclamation realized when it began the
construction of Hoover Dam in 1931 that many Americans
would wish to visit both the dam and Lake Meade above
it and made arrangements with the National Park Service
to develop facilities. The TVA, constructing its reservoirs
in an area famed for its scenic beauty, foresaw a demand
for recreation facilities. However, the potential magnitude
of the public interest in reservoirs constructed in the prairies
and the plains for such prosaic purposes as flood control
was not immediately clear. Projects such as the Denison
Dam, built hy the Corps of Engineers in 1942 on the Red

River between Texas and Oklahoma, soon demonstrated

4-48

that this public interest was to be many times greater than
had previously been thought.

As the Corps of Engineers accumulated data to illustrate
the emerging situation it was brought to the attention of
Congress. This resulted in an important expression of Con-
gressional policy in Section 4— of the Flood Control Act of
1944 (Public Law 534-78th Congress) . This act, as amended
in 1946 and 1954, provided:

1. Authority for recreation deveIOpment of Corps of
Engineers reservoirs:

0 To construct, maintain, and operate public park and rec-
rcation facilities.

0 To permit the construction, maintenance, and Operation
of such facilities by others.

0 To grant licenses of lands for such purposes.

0 To grant licenses to nonprofit organizations at reduced
or nominal charges in recognition of public service rendered.
0 To grant preference to governmental agencies.

0 To grant licenses to government agencies without charge

 

Thc Eisenhower Marina at Lake Tcxoma, created by the Den-
isori Dam buiit by the Corps of Engineers on the Red River
between Texas and Okiahoma, is one of the ninety-scvea
improved public access points dcveiopcd for recreation use.

for use of all or any part of a reservoir for any public
purpose.

2. Mandatory provisions for recreation develOpment and
public use:
0 That water areas of all reservoirs shall he Open to public
use generally, without charge, for recreation purposes.
0 That ready access to the water area along the shores
shall he maintained for general public use.
0 That no use shall he permitted contrary to applicable
state fish and game laws.

THE AUTHORITIES provided by this legislation gave the De-
partment of the Army considerable latitude for possible
federal activity in planning and devclOpmcnt of recreation
at reservoirs. However, the Bureau of the Budget, acting
for the Executive Branch, and the Appropriations Conmlit-
tees of the Congress tended to hold to a minimum the
responsibility to be assumed by the federal government in
deveIOping the recreation potential of corps’ reservoirs.
The 1950 report of the President’s Water Resources
Policy Commission recognized the growing need for pre-

RECREATION

serving and utilizing the recreation potential of federal
water projects. The report included these conclusions and
recommendations concerning recreation:

1. Recreation should be fully considered in the plan-
ning of water resource programs and be fully evaluated in
all decisions to construct water-resource projects.

2. Planning for recreation in water-resources programs
should be coordinated with local, state, regional, and na-
tional recreation programs.

3. Suitable lands should be made available at all federal
reservoirs for public recreation use.

4. Major water impoundment should be constructed and
operated to insure full realization of their recreation po-
tential compatible with other uses.

5. The effects of all water projects on recreation re-
sources should be appraised realistically and throroughly
and measures provided to correct any damages.

6. Irreplaceable recreation resources should not be dam-
aged by water-resource programs unless the benefits to the
nation outweigh the loss of recreation value.

7. Puhlic hearings should be held to permit expression
of conflicting interests in water-resource development
projects.

8. Public recreation Opportunities should be expanded
in connection with shore protection programs along sea»
shores and the Great Lakes.

After review of the 1950 report, however, the Bureau of
the Budget issued Circular A-47 on December 31, 1952,
which included these provisions with respect to recreation:

1. Recreation should be considered in project plans.

2. Evaluation of a project or program shall include
estimates of increase in value of recreation and fish and
wildlife resources expected.

3. Recreation costs and benefits should be considered
apart from other project costs and benefits.

4. Only the incremental costs of recreation should be
allocated to recreation.

5. Costs of “minimum basic recreation facilities” and
measures to prevent damage to recreation resources shall
be allocated to “major” purposes of the project (flood
control, navigation, power, irrigation, etcetera).

6. The cost of public access facilities shall be borne by
the federal government only when the recreation provided
has “national significance” and the apprOpriation of funds
is specifically authorized by Congress or is provided through
appropriations for regular national park or national forest
programs.

7. Cost of lands required specifically for recreation may
be borne by the federal government if state or local govern-
ments are unwilling or unable to protect such values but
ordinarily acquisition of recreation lands shall he limited
to requirements for public access and such lands shall be
turned over to state or local governments if not of national
significance.

UNDER THESE GUIDELINES recreation could be provided for
in federal projects to a limited extent but could not be
considered as a full project purpose on a basis comparable
with other purposes. The principal objective of the restric-

NOVEMBER, 1962

 

vation, May 24-25, 1962, Secretary of the In-

terior Stewart L. Udall enumerated the signifi-
cant conservation decisions of the last hundred years.
These decisive turning points include:

D URING THE White House Conference on Conser-

The Homestead Act of 1862—which has become the
classic American contribution to land reform.

The Yellowstone Park Act of 1872—which was the be-
ginning of the idea that the most superb of our scenic
lands should become parks for all of the people.

The Forest Reservation Act of 1891—which enabled
Harrison, Cleveland, and Theodore Roosevelt to estab-
lish our national forest reserves.

The Reclamation Act of 1902—which meant that water
would be conserved and its benefits widely shared in
the arid regions of the West.

The A ntiquities Act of 1906—which gave presidents the
power to establish national monuments.

The Weeks Act of 1911—which established the system
of national forests in the eastern United States.

The Mineral Leasing Act of 1920—which set up an or-
derly plan for the deve10pment of our mineral wealth.

The Soil Conservation Act of 1935—which started a
nationwide program of soil and moisture conservation.

The Taylor Grazing Act of 1935—which closed the
public domain and put our grasslands under sound man—
agement.

tions on inclusion of recreation was to hold to a minimum
the federal participation in assuming costs for recreation de-
velopment. This was evidenced in comments of the Bureau
of the Budget on proposed legislation which would have
made evaluation of recreation and fish and wildlife benefits
an integral part of project planning and would have in-
creased federal activities in this field (Senate Bills S. 1164
and 1221, 855k Congress). In its comments the Bureau of
the Budget expressed its view that the federal government
should bear the full cost of recreation developments associ-
ated with the use of federally financed reservoirs only in
those instances where the recreation benefits are determined
to be of national significance and that when the benefits are
largely of a local nature, the federal government would be
justified in sharing to some extent in the costs of making the
recreation benefits available to the public, but the major
share of these costs should be borne by state, county, or
local interests.

In 1953, the Departments of the Interior and the Army
adopted a joint land-acquisition policy which changed the
previous practice of acquiring fec title to all lands required
for flood control as well as permanent pools plus a small rim
area to a policy of acquiring easements for areas flooded
less frequently than once in five years. Fee title was permit-
ted for permanent pool areas plus a narrow rim for perma-
nent structures and for the limited access and public use then
authorized. This policy also tended to discourage full pro-
vision for the recreation potential of reservoirs. It placed
a heavy burden of proof on definition of future recreation
needs and, together with the limited benefit and cost evalua-

449

tic. i _ *‘utices permissable under Circular A47, resulted in
to. itions at reservoirs which were to prove inade-

v Jubsequent recreation demands.
:. it t. Congress enacted the Fish and Wildlife Coordinau
1.1 u l which provided for equal consideration of fish and
:1 white (unsvrvation along with other purposes of water
resonn e developments. Because of the interrelation of the
fishing and hunting aspects of fish and wildlife conservation
with the general outdoor recreation potential of federal
reservoirs, this act provided some additional Opportunity
to provide for recreation in reservoir planning and devel-

opment.

NDER the available authorities for recreation develop-
U ment and use of reservoir areas through the fifties, the
Corps of Engineers, with the cooperation of other interested
federal, state, and local agencies, prepared master plans for
each project as a framework for present and future develop-
ment, administration and use of project resources. Such
master plans indicated:

1. Areas needed for various types of recreation and pub-
lic use.

2. Plans for develOpment by Corps of Engineers, other
federal agencies, state or other non-federal agencies, private
agencies, and concessionaires.

3. Policies and procedures governing all develOpment.

The experience in preparing and carrying out such nias-
ter plans during the fifties demonstrated the need for im-
provement in the definition of policies for developing the
recreation potential at corps’ reservoirs. Accordingly, the
corps issued a manual for guidance in project planning.

In the period prior to 1960, the available authorities and
applicable policies permitted the Corps of Engineers to pro-
vide a limited amount of basic facilities for access and public
use at the 250 impoundments placed in Operation during that
period. The federal costs for such facilities were approxi-
mately $15,000,000, a small fraction of the total cost of the
multiple-purpose projects involved. Arrangements were
made for additional facilities at a cost of approximatcly
$26,000,000 to state and local govermnents and $110,000.-
000 were invested by concessionaires or by non-federal in-
terests on private lands adjoining the project areas. These
facilities provided reasonably for the more than a hundred
million visits made annually by 1960 but it was evident that
the capacity of facilities at most projects was not equal to
the growing demand, that the full potential for recreation
at most projects was not developed and changes in policies
were necessary and desirable. Such changes developed rap-
idly beginning in 1960.

In December 1960, the Senate’s Select Committee on Na-
tional Water Resources, under the chairmanship of Senator
Robert Kerr, published its comprehensive appraisal of the
nation’s water resources and needs for their conservation
and development. (Sec editorial by Senator Kerr, REC-
REATION, October 1960.) Its findings and recommendations
provide a valuable framework for current’planning and de-
velopment of water resource projects, including their rec-
reation aspects. The Select Committee Report recognized
that a major portion of the outdoor recreation potential is

450

associated with water areas. Among other things, it recom-
mended adoption of a policy that the recreation potentialities
of all federal reservoirs be developed for public use.

In his special message to the Congress on natural re-
sources which followed on February 23, 1961, President
Kennedy urged Congress to enact legislation to protect the
nation’s remaining wilderness and shoreline areas in the
public interest. In this initial message on natural resources
the President also accepted as the policy of his administra-
tion the goal urged by the Senate Select Committee to de-
velop comprehensive river-basin plans by 1970. Outstanding
among the steps initiated by the President to achieve that
goal was his instruction to the budgct director to reevaluate
current standards for appraising the feasibility of water-
resource projects.

WHILE the federal agencies undertook the various actions

necessary to carry out the President’s program, the
Outdoor Recreation Resources Review Commission was
completing its three-year study of all aspects of the nation’s
needs and potential for outdoor recreation (see RECREATION,
March and April 1962). Its report to the President and
the Congress on January 31, 1962 recommended a national
recreation policy with guidelines for management, proce-
dures for expansion, modification, and intensification of
present programs, and steps that should be taken in a con-
certed effort by the government to fulfill the outdoor rec-
reation needs of the nation. One of its outstanding rec-
ommendations was that recreation should be given full
consideration in the planning, design, and construction of
water resource projects. Another was that public agencies
(federal, state, and local) should assure adequate access to
such projects by the acquisition of access areas and ease-
ments across private lands, zoning of shorelines, and con-
sideration of recreation values in road design and construc—
tion. Meanwhile, the Departments of the Interior and the
Army had complctcd their review of land-acquisition policies
at their reservoir projects and adopted, on February 16 and
19, 1962, respectively, a revised policy to accomplish the
Objective of the President that “land acquired for the con-
struction of federally financed reservoirs is sufficient to per-
mit future development for recreation purposes."

On March 1, 1962, the President transmitted to Congress
his Message on Conservation (sec RECREATION. April 1962)
which recognized the increasing importance of outdoor rec-
reation as brought out in the Senate Select Committee Report

of 1960 and the report of the ORRRC. This message an-

nounced the President's intentions to take administrative
action and initiate legislative proposals as follows:

1. To appoint a Recreation Advisory Council made up of
the heads of departments and agencies principally concerned
with recreation. (The council held its grst meeting July

12, 1962.)

2. To create within the Department of the Interior a Bu-
reau of Outdoor Recreation. ( Established April 2, 1962.)

3. To establish a program of matching grants for the de-

Continued on Page 470

RECREATION

Introducing.. . the 
DISTRICT ADVISORY CHAIRMEN

WE ARE PROUD to present the men and women who arc
serving as chairmen of the National Recreation Asso-
ciation’s District Advisory Committees for 1962-63.

When the executive director of the National Recreation
Association appointed an advisory committee in each of the
Association’s eight geographical districts in 1951, a new
resource was created which has been of great benefit to the
recreation movement. The committees have accomplished
their purpose of advising NRA’s district representatives re-
garding recreation problems and needs within the districts
and suggesting how the resources of NRA could be utilized
most effectively in meeting them. They have done much more
than that. Since committee members include representatives
of state societies as well as outstanding leaders appointed by

NRA, the committees have inevitably become a coordinating
force in each district and a means of communication between
organizations and groups.

One important task of each committee is the planning of the
Association’s district conferences. Through their efforts these
conferences have continuously improved and grown. Other
projects undertaken by these committees include recruitment
promotions, training programs, assistance with NRA fi-
nancing, campaigns to fight encroachment, salary surveys,
special studies on program evaluation, and many others.

The National Recreation Association is grateful for the
loyalty and service of all members, past and present, of its
District Advisory Committees—ARTHUR TODD, Director,
N ational Recreation Association Field Department.

Clement Lemire
New England

Robert Reis
Middle Atlantic

Ruth Bird
M I'd-South

NOVEMBER, 1962

 

 

 

Clement M. Lemire, chairman of the New England District Advisory
Committee, has been superintendent of parks and recreation in N ewing-
ton, Connecticut, for the past six years and is currently president of the
Connecticut Recreation Society. Previously he served as superintendent
of parks and recreation in Franklin, New Hampshire, for eight years.
He has served three three-year terms on the New England District Com-
mittee, on the Governor’s Committee for Open Spaces, and is a member
of the NRA National Advisory Committees on Recrcation Administra-
tion and Publication of Recreation Materials. An able photographer.

Robert A. Reis, chairman of the Middle Atlantic District Advisory
Committee, is an area superintendent of recreation and parks for the
Baltimore County, Maryland, Departmcnt of Recreation and Parks. He
has served as both vice-president and treasurer of the Maryland Recre-
ation and Park Society. He was director of recreation in Pottstown,
Pennsylvania, for nearly six years. He served in World War 11 as an
Air Force pilot and at present is a captain in the Air Force Reserves.
Until five years ago he was still playing basehall and basketball but
has now switched over to golf and bowling as less strenuous pursuits.

Mrs. Ruth H. Bird, chairman of the Mid-South District Advisory Com-
mittee, has been superintendent of recreation in Chattanooga, Tennes-
see, since 1959. She majored in physical education at Middle Tennessee
State College and started her career as a teacher in the Chattanooga
Public Schools. After a temporary summer ob in 1943 as a substitute
for a center director, the Chattanooga Recreation Department asked
her to stay on as general supervisor of centers and playgrounds, and
she served in this capacity until appointcd as superintendent. She re-
ports that she swims, fishes (the big ones always get away 1 ) , and paints.

4-51

4-52

Woodrow Dukes
Southeastern

Harry Feldman
Great Lakes

Betty Miller
Midwest

Lou Hamilton
Southwest

Marshal Smith

Pacific Northwest

Herman Riese
Pacihc Southwest

 

 

 

 

Woodrow W. Dukes, chairman of the Southern District Advisory
Committee—Southeastern Section, is superintendent of recreation
for St. Lucie County, Florida. His first employment in the field of
recreation came when he was still in the ninth grade and was employed
in the recreation office to answer the telephone and check out equip-
ment. This later led to work on the playgrounds during summer va-
cations. His interest in sports, drama, and music further deveIOped
his interest in recreation as a career. Before entering the US. Army in

World War II, he worked in the WPA State Recreation Program.

Harry H. Feldman, chairman of the Great Lakes District Advisory
Committee, is recreation consultant and director of recreation plan-
ning for the United Community Council of Columbus and Franklin
County, Ohio. He helps smaller communities develop tax-supported
park and recreation programs, as well as working with planning offi-
cials, state legislators, pursuing surveys, assisting in leadership train-
ing, and doing research for the Governor’s Commission on the Aging.
One of his major pilot projects, now in its third year of operation,
is an eighteen hundred-acre community camp, a cooperative effort.

Betty Miller, chairman of the Midwest District Advisory Commit-
tee, has been director of recreation in Springfield, Missouri, since
1959. Currently, she is on a year’s leave of absence to pursue her mas-
ter’s degree in recreation at the University of Illinois where she is
also teaching in the women’s physical education department on an as-
sistantship. She began her recreation career as teenage program di-
rector for the YWCA in Topeka, Kansas. She is a member of the
board of directors of the Springfield Planning Council, a member
of the Camp Fire Girls Personnel Committee, and other agencies.

Lon Hamilton, chairman of the Southwest District Advisory Com-
mittee, has been superintendent of recrcation in San Antonio, Texas,
since 1941. She is also a member of the NRA Advisory Committees
for the International Services and Defense Related Services. Shc
chairs the National Women’s and Girls’ Committee of the Amateur
Softball Association. A past-prcsidcnt of the Texas Recreation So-
ciety, she is now a member of this group’s hoard of directors. She
is also past-president of the Texas Amateur Athletic cheration. She
relaxes by hunting, fishing, and swimming, is active in conservation.

Marshal Smith, chairman of the Pacific Northwest District Advisory
Committee, is supervisor of community centers and playgrounds for
the Vancouver, British Columbia, Board of Parks and Public Recrea-
tion. He is the first Canadian ever elected chairman of an NRA dis-
trict advisory committee. (The district includes the statcs of Wash-
ington, Oregon, Idaho, Montana, and Alaska. and the Canadian Prov-
inces of Alberta, Saskatchewan, and British Columbia). He super-
vises programs in six bustling community centers and is currently
helping architects plan three new ones worth a total of $2,200,000.

Herman \V. Riese, chairman of the Pacific Southwest District Ad-
visory Committee, is director of recreation in Bakersfield, California.
He and his committee have been active in many areas, including the
promotion of workshops or institutes for the training of board and
commission members; preparing a much-needed handbook for hoard
and commission members; in the establishment of goals and priori-
ties for the development of college and university training programs
and in interpreting the recreation movement to college and university
personnel, students, and administration with regard to curriculum.

RECREATION

IIIJOIIIIIIIIOOOIIIIII

Youth
Serves the
Community

A junior board of directors

promotes teenage recreation

I in M anistee County, Michigan

John Lambrosa

NOVEMBER, 1962

 

    

L'ITE OFTEN
recreation di-

rectors in smaller

communities face
the age-old prob-
lem of finding ad-
equate funds to run
their programs. In
Manistee County, Michigan, the Manis-
tee Recreation Association Junior
Board of Directors is helping to solve
this problem. Now in its fourth year of
operation, the MBA Junior Board was
formed to foster and promote social and
recreation activities for the youngsters
of the county and to elevate social stan-
dards for dances and activities spon-
sored by this group. The board is re-
sponsible to the MBA Senior Board
for any expenditures exceeding $50 and
is under the guidance of two members
of the senior board.

All funds in the junior board’s ac-
count are realized from the thirty-five-
cent admission charged the teenagers to
attend the weekly dances held at the
MBA. During the ten-month period,
from September through June, the week-
ly dances are held on Saturday evenings,
then are switched to Tuesday evenings

MR. LAMBROSA is director of parks and
recreation and assistant to the city man-
ager in Manistee County, Michigan.

during the summer so as not to conflict
with the summer theater performances
held on Saturday.

The fourteen-member board repre-
sents the various high schools in the
area, with each high school contribu-
ting members according to its total en-
rollment. The youngsters are elected for
one year but may remain members
while they are still in high school if
they prove to be assets to the organiza-
tion and contribute their talents and
time as needed. Each year, approxi-
mately four seniors graduate and are
replaced by four members of the fresh-
man and soPllomore classes, thus insur-
ing new members to go along with the
experienced members remaining from
the previous year.

Supervision is provided for all dances
by MBA part-time supervisors who
maintain discipline at the dances. A
recent ruling that no one who has
reached their twentieth birthday will be
allowed at the dances insures that the
teen dances are strictly for teens. Pro-
per dress and behavior is encouraged
and emphasized by the youngsters them-
selves. Parents and visitors are we]-
comcd and encouraged to come to the
dances. The youngsters and the staff
of the MBA as well as the senior board
of directors are proud of the behavior
there but always welcome constructive

453

 

Mason’s fund
raising plan
offers $500

or more profit!

 

Thousands of groups throughout the
country have successfully conducted fa-
mous MASON PROTECTED FUND-RAISING
DRIVES, raising money quickly and com-
pleter without risk or investment. We
supply a choice of tOp-quality MASON
candies, beautifully boxed. At no charge
to you, each packagc has an attractivc,
printcd band, bearing your organization's
name, picture and slogan. ‘We cven PRE-
PAY shipping chargcs! You make a big
NET PROFIT of 66% % (40¢ on every box
that costs you 60¢) and you pay NOTHING
until AFTER your drive is ovcr. Anything
remaining unsold may be returned for
full credit. For mpg-Le information
without obligation, write us or fill in the
coupon below.

 

.- ——————————— ——-1
I Mr. GEORGE RAUSCII, Dept. 756 I
I Mason, Box 549, Mineola, N. Y. I
I Gentlemen: Piease send me, without obliga- I
I tion, information on your Fund Raising Plan. I
I Age l
I Name_(lf under 21 )_ I
I Organization—_.________ I
I Street AddreSS—_______ I
I City State I
| |

How many members

L ___________ .._..__|

Mason Candies, Inc., Mineola, L. 1., N. Y.

 

454

criticism and new ideas tO improve the
program.

MEETINGS are usually very calm and
businesslike, although once in a
while the independence that marks tO-
day’s younger generation is very much
in evidence. Individual thinking is en-
couraged and, while all parties may not
agree in every instance, the majority
rule prevails.

TO provide teen-age recreation for
the youngsters Of the city and county
Of Manistee does not necessarily mean
that the board will attempt tO operate
all its dances with the idea that it must
realize a profit. The Jimmy and Tom-
my Dorsey band was sponsored by the
group in the summer Of 1959 and rock
’n’ roll stars Ray Smith and Frankie
Ford were another sponsored project.
Tiny Piper and his fine danceband have
been the holiday favorites during the
past two years along with guest bands
on special occasions. Prices for the
special dances are geared to the teen-
ager’s pocketbook rather than a profit
price.

The Civic Center building has under-
gone a great deal Of improvement dur-
ing the past three years, thanks to the
financial assistance Of the MBA Junior
Board. During the past twO years alone
the total amount of moncy spent by the
hoard in the MBA for programs, equip-
ment, etcetera was $3,392. It fell into

the following categorics:

Equipment purchased (including
ing lighting fixtures, drapes,

doors, shades, etc.) ............  $1,419.52
Equipment repair ........................ .. 133.57
Athletic equipment (purchased) 538.68
Activities (including playground

equipment and salaries) ........ .. 390.00
Paint and labor in dairy bar and

lounge ........................................ .. 284.00
Part-time supervision .................. .. 209.00
Office supplies .............................. .. 242.10
Miscellaneous (holiday decora-

tion, furniture, fixtures, ctc.) .. 175.13

Total .......... .. $3,392 .00

The above list is by no means com-
plete. It is estimatcd that the total ex-
penditures during the last threc and a
half years in meeting their purpose and
aims exceeds $55,500.

Two YEARS AGO Parents’ Magazine
awarded the junior board a certifi-
cate Of merit for community scrvice.
The group was one of four so honored
in the state of Michigan. Never content
tO remain dormant, the junior board

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

has many plans for the future. TO be
identified as a member Of this group is
an honor and the youngsters have felt
that there should be a means Of associ-
ating them with their board. Inexpen-
sive but attractive pins have been de-
signed for the members. Each member
must earn one by good attendance, par-
ticipation in committee meetings and
special activities, and proper behavior
displayed not only during but also away
from meetings.

The MBA building, while showing
physical improvement, nevertheless
needs further improvements, including
a boy’s lounging room complete with a
sports library, TV, radio, easy chairs,
and pictures Of athletes in action. The
gym needs paint and new lighting as
does the balcony atOp the gym entrance.
Ncw window shields and a scoreboard
are luxuries that may get consideration
once the necessities have been pur-
chased.

This past year the junior board has
helped in setting up a $200 recreation
scholarship tO be awarded tO an indi-
vidual from Manistee County who will
major in recreation at a Michigan col-
legc or university. The individual who
is awarded the scholarship must agree
tO work in the summer playground pro-
gram during his 01' her vacation. This
scholarship is awarded on thc basis Of
recreation aptitude, scholastic ability,
and financial necd. Within one month
after the scholarship plan was an-
nounced, two applications wcre re-
ceived. The board is also considering
establishing a student loan fund for its
past mcmhers as well as thc future mcm-
will attcnd

hers of thc hoard who

schools of higher education.

The never-ending quest for cquip-
ment and Office supplies takcs priority
as the months progress. Special dances
for the United Fund and other worthy
causcs in cfiect emphasize their contri-
bution to local civic drives, another
never-ending necessity.

Working with the senior adviscrs and
their own constitution enahlcs all thc
membcrs to prepare for thc road ahead
in self-government and independent
thinking. This group has been and will
continue tO he a valuable asset tO the
entire area. #

RECREATION

CHURCH
RECREATION

 

The CHURCH
and RECREATION:

\Villiam R. Fortner

THE RELATIONSHIP of recreation and

the church has always been a
friendly one, centering chiefly in the
past on the functional question, “How
can the skills of recreation be utilized
in the church?” This antiquated query
has fortunately given way to a more en-
lightened viewpoint: the realization that
the church must encourage recreation not only in the church
but wholesome recreation outside the church as well. The
planned and constructive use of leisure time is essential, if
our young people and adults with increasing amounts of time
on their hands are to be kept from an amoral, if not immoral,
pursuit of the sensual and adventuresome. Modern con-

 

siderations now press upon us to grow in our perspective
and move to a more progressive relationship of the church
to community recreation agencies. It is a simple fact that
much of the usc of leisure time through recreation outlets
must be supplied outside of the church with the full blessing
of the church, not only bccause it may theoretically help
prevent crime, or develop character, but because it frees the
church from a false economy which calls it, foolishly, to try
to be “all things to all peOple.”

In the past the church has asked, “What can recreation
mean to us?” Youth groups needed recreation, camping
found increasipg value in the program of the church, parlor
games were a means of developing fellowship. These activi-
ties assisted the church in developing and appealing to all
age groups. Because of the limited time available for reli-
gious, cultural, and recreation activities, it was the only
concept practical. Recreation was something to be used by
existing groups; few recognized it as a future institution in
its own right. Thus, the question of self-interest was natural
and well meaning. The larger current question now is, “What
can the church do for recreation and how can these two work
together?” ,

The interest of the church is one of altruisitic concern
for the community. There is a growing amount of leisure
time; provision must be made for its constructive use. The
church is interested in this new grant of “free time” and,
of course, in seeing that there are wholesome activities avail-

THE REV. FORTNER is minister of education for the Epworth-
Euclid Methodist Church in. Cleveland, Ohio, and a former

stafjt member of the recreation department in. Euclid, Ohio.

NOVEMBER, 1962

The church and community recreation
agencies must establish a mutually con-
tributing relationship. Do you agree with
the approach expressed by the author?
If not, let us hear from you.

able to the public. Sectarian interests and programs must
here give way to a total community view.

THE CHURCH has encouraged the development of the indi-

vidual man. It has assisted in the campaign for shorter
hours, better working conditions, more time to do more
things. It cannot, therefore, abdicate its responsibility once
this original goal has been won. Religious groups must be
instrumental in not only providing the leisure time but in
suggesting ways for its use. This interest must become in-
creasingly tangible.

This interest of the church must find an expression in a
community program of support for public recreation and pri-
vate recreation agencies. The taxing powers must be studied
so that needed money is available to the municipal agency;
quality leadership must be provided for all groups; citizens
must be “sold” on a broad program of community recrea-
tion. The church ought to lend a hand in cultivating aware-
ness; clergymen should focus attention on the need and ad-
dress themselves to its solution in their community. In so
doing, the church will aid the recreation agencies and also

find benefit for itself.

Institutions of varied character and program have recog-
nized of late an inner tension which pulls in opposing direc-
tions. The church is high on the list of those organized
groups which are conscious of these forces which pull apart,
rather than draw together. Simply stated, these forcesrare
the pressures from manifold human needs of every variety.
The demands are greater than the resources and energies
available. It is well, therefore, to keep in mind the observa-
tion of Disraeli, made some one hundred years ago when
he commented, “The secret of success is constancy to pur-
pose.” This statement has especial meaning in this instance.
In a genuine program of mutual c00peration, the church,
torn asunder by a feeling of responsibility in countless areas,
can look to its own unique role in our society and attempt
to fulfill it while allowing others to carry their own unique
responsibilities and positions in society. Their full attention
can be directed to their specific missions.

f I ‘HE CHURCH is a divine institution; however, history has
shown that even it can achieve only a limited amount

Continued on Page 478

455

J. Mac thin

 

Discovering Primitive Artists

Town and country art shows in Illinois

prove to be source of “primitive” paintings

 

Portrait of two artists. This photo-

graphic study of .lennie Cell and Rome
M cCahan was taken by Shirley Tremble.

456

E. II. (Duke) Regnier

ACH YEAR more than two
E thousand amateur artists
bring paintings, sculptured
items. and craft work to an Illi-
nois county or district show. From
twenty to twenty-five county ex-
tension agents arrange for thc
showings and a member of the
University of Illinois Department
of Art selects representative items,
conducts a critique 011 all entries,
and visits with the exhibitors and
guests about art and artistic pur-
suits.

One of the pleasing and stimu-
lating experiences of these shows
is the occasional appearance of a
genuine example of primitive art,
a painting usually in oil, portray-
ing not a scene painted from ob-
servation but some remembered
experience of a lifetime. As a rule,

 

MR. REGNIER is extension recrea-
tionist for the University of Illi-
nois.

 

Self portrait. Photographer Shirley
Tremble poses with a mobile construc-
tion ofadangling rat trapanddoor knob.

RECREATION

 

“Pruning Time in the Orchard” by Jennie Cell who plunged into
the field of art by doing four paintings with different colors of shoe
polish . . . it never occurred to her to buy paint. Subject and treat-

ment are typical of the work of the self-taught indigenous artist.

these incidents are crowded onto the
canvas to portray a story, event, char-
acter, or a series of experiences. A true
primitive is devoid of shades and shad-
ows and appears Hat. It is childlike in
its realism and mechanical in perspec-
tive.

Almost without exception, the effort
of the primitive artist is not appreciated
by his neighbors or those dwelling in
the same community. Therefore, many
such artists undoubtedly remain dor-
mant or lack courage to show their ef-
forts; and the discovery of primitive
artists like Grandma Moses is made
quite by accident.

Such is the story of Miss Jennie Cell
and her uncle, Jerome McGahan. Jen-
nie keeps house for Mr. McGahan. Shir-
ley Tremble, who stipplied the photo-
graphs for this article, himself a photo-
graphic artist, tells us that Jennie did
her first four paintings with different
colors of shoe polish; it never occurred
to her to buy paint. Jerome, who is a
carpenter, cabinetmaker, and farmer,
had made frames for artist friends for
their paintings and was teased upon one
occasion “Why don’t you paint a pic-
ture sometime, Rome?” When Coles
County extension representatives an-
nounced they were participating in the
Town and Country Art Show and would
invite any and all amateurs to bring
articles for exhibit, Jennie and Rome
brought paintings. The painting Mr.
McGahan brought was his first. That
was four years ago. He was seventy-five
then—he still milks three cows.

NOVEMBER, 1962

-1!

Ti!
' _1

The committee hanging the paintings
and pedestaling the sculptured pieces
was obviously avoiding and leaving to
the last Rome McGahan’s painting,
“The Fishpond.” You could tell for
sure it was a fishpond with its fisherman
sitting on a stump, obviously holding a
fishing pole, fishing in blue, blue water
which represented the lake surrounded
by green, green grass. To be sure there
was no mistake, Rome had included a
sign in the painting which bore the
message “F ishpond.”

It began to look as though “The Fish-
pond” was not going to be placed on
the wall for the judge to study, but the
judge, Professor Doolittle of the Uni-
versity of lllinois Art Department, had
appeared early and was casing the show.
In walking about, he would glance no-
ticeably over his shoulder at the Mc-
Gahan painting as it leaned against the
wall awaiting attention of the gallery
committee. Finally the professor ap-
proached the painting and hunkered
down to study it more closely. “This is
interesting,” he said, “this comes as a
true primitive expression.” Meanwhile,
two other people had gathered and one
remarked, “You mean we had better
hang it on the wall?”

“By all means,” said Professor Doo-
little, and so “The Fishpond” along with
the painting that Jennie Cell submitted,
plus seven or eight other more contem-
porary and modern works of art, was
selected to represent Coles County at
an exhibition of the Farm and Home

Festival on thc University of Illinois
campus.

THIS IS ONLY a beginning of the story

which has several episodes. A par-
ticularly interesting one to follow was
the time when Rome McGahan, after
the inspiration and stimulation of Pro-
fessor Doolittle, took one of several
paintings to the Illinois State Fair to
cnter the amateur artists’ display there.
Not being too well acquainted with
where things were and where to go, he
was directed to the art show but it hap-
pened to be the professional art show
and without knowledge of doing so, his
entry was made in the professional
show. To the dismay of his neighbors,
and undoubtedly with quite substantial
surprise to himself, his entry made the
screening and was awarded a $75 hon-
orahle-mention prize. This is fine but
it has some problems. Being accepted
by a professional show recognized by
Artist’s Equity in the eyes of most peo-
plc makes Rome a professional artist.
“But I don’t want to be a professional
artist. I want to paint with my friends.
I want to exhihit with them in the Town
and Country Art Show.”

“But,” he was advised, “The Town

and Country Art Show is an amateur
show and you have been recognized by
professionals.” 50 it looked as though
Jerome’s success and achievement with
the amateur group was at an end. A
local resourceful gallery committee,
however, capitalized on the recent suc-
cesses of this avid artist. He was in-
cluded at the amateur art show as a spe-
cial gallery feature. displaying his
honors, a special panel of six McGahan
paintings along with some newspaper
clippings and stories of his triumphs

and reactions.

Mr. McCalian has encouraged others
of his ncighhors to try the hrush and
palette and the latest report is that five
or six fellows meet fairly regularly to
paint. They range in age from fifty-two
to eighty. A recent one-man show was
arranged for McGahan in the Coles

County Public Library and included
“The Mouser,” “Milking Time,” “Busy

Times,” “Watermelon Time,” “Snap
Judgmcnt,” “Pheasant Hunting,” and
“In 1849.” #

457

 bets and

” ."-'. ' 1:5:

 "rafts Corner

f.
‘4
)

Edited by Shirley Silbert

Batter Up For Christmas

I I sat Is .\ USE for those old cracked bats you have been
saving since baseball season, knowing they were too
good to throw away. Branched with evergreen, they make

sturdy trunks for Christmas trees.

Direetions

1. Flatten the rounded thick end of the hat by cutting of}
tip. This end, later fastened to a stand, becomes the base of
the trunk.

2. Drill four large holes, equally spaced around the bat,
two or three inches from the base. These holes should be
slanted downward so that the evergreen branches ( to be

inserted later) will not fall out.
3. Drill another ring of three or four holes a few inches

higher up the bat, then more rings up the entire length of
the hat. The holes should be smaller near the t0p, for stnallcr

branches.
4. Drill a ring of eight even smaller holes around the side

of the bat butt and a hole at the top large enough to hold a
three- or four-inch length of doweling. The doweling will

support a tree-t0p decoration.
5. Cut a thin piece of wood into a twelve-inch equilateral

triangle for the stand. Clue and nail it onto the base of the
bat, centering the bat onto the stand.

6. Glue the doweling into the top hole.

7. When glue is dry, paint your creation green or brown.

8. Prune small expendable branches from an evergreen
tree and fit these into the holes in the bat. Wedge each
branch in snugly. If it is too slender, wrap it with a strip of
rag or paper; if too thick, pare with a knife.

9. If the tree is to be used indoors, spray with lireproofing
solution.

 

458

 

10. Now your tree is ready to trim.
11. After Christmas remove decorations and branches
and store for future holidays.
——ROCER M. ECKCREN, Los Angeles, California

Hollybabies

Hollybaby placecards for a holiday party are easy to make
and easy on the budget. Each
hollybaby calls for one Kurly
Kate potcleaner, one Ping-pong
ball, a sprig of holly, glue, and a
namecard. Spread and loosen
the Kurly Kate slightly to give
the bird an irregular shape.
Draw a happy face on the Ping-
pong ball (an ordinary ballpoint
pen or felt marker does the job)
and glue on tiny spiral of Kurly
Kate as a topknot. Clue the Ping-pong ball in the center of
the potcleaner, glue on a sprig of holly, and attach a name-
card.

‘

Artyfacts

0 When sandpaper fails to reach bits of glue in scars and
scratches on a wood surface being refinished, try a plain
rubber eraser. lt cannot mar the wood and works particu-
larly well on old contact cement.

0 A piece of Cclotex placed under model airplane plans
makes it easy to insert the straight pins used to hold thc parts
in place until the cement is dry.

I lnstead of dirtyng a paintbrush for a small tonchup job,
try using the end of a piece of clothesline or other tightly
woven rope. When the job is done, simply cut off the rope
end and throw it away.

0 A bottle of nail polish relnovcr kept handy in the tool kit
is valuable for small cleaning jobs where grease or paint
must be removed.

0 lf you wish to hammer a nail into thc wall for picture
hanging, place a piece of adhesive tape or ccllophane tape
on the spot prior to driving the nail into the wall. This will
avoid chipping wall plaster.——DOROTHY J. SCHMID, First.
U .5. Army, Governors Island, New York.

From Aglcts to Zippers

The need for adequate clothes fasteners was just as kcenly
felt by the caveman as it is by modern man. Twenty thou-
sand years ago, the primitive pin solved the problem for the
caveman; today, the streamlined zipper meets the changing
and complex dcmands of modern life. Talon Educational
Service, 41 East Sl st Strcet, New York 22, has a delightful
leaflet entitled History of Clothing Fasteners, illustrating the
development of such devices as brooches, buckles, hooks and
eyes, lacings and buttons, and leading up to the simplest and
most efficient of closures, the zipper. The ideas are quite
interesting and adaptable. The leaflet is free—SHIRLEY SIL-
BERT, New York.

RECREATION

 

RECREATION ADMINISTRATION
IN METROPOLITAN AREAS

Part III

Servicing the greater metropolis—

methods that have been developed in several areas

Geo rge D. Butler

Parts I and I] of this article, in the September and October
issues of RECREATION, described conditions affecting recrea-
tion service in rnetrOpolitan areas, aspccts of the recreation
function, factors influencing the allocation of responsibility
for recreation, and possible arrangements for administering
recrcation in metr0politan areas. In Part 11] Mr. Butler
describes methods developed in scveral metropolitan areas
to provide aspects of thc recreation function serving the
entire area or portions of its population. Most of thc agen-
cies discussed have not been creatcd to administer the total
recreation function for the metropolitan area. but illustratc
various ways of dealing with aspects of the problem.

’ at» at» at» 4+
SINGLE AGENCY to provide recreation service for the
A central city and the entire county has been created in
at least three metropolitan areas: Atlanta, Georgia;
Baton Rouge, Louisiana; and Indianapolis, Indiana.
Atlanta-Fulton County, Georgia. 'nder an act of the
Georgia General Assembly entitled Fulton County Parks

 

MR. BUTLER is director of the National Recreation Associa-
tion Research Department.

NOVEMBER, 1962

System, approved February 21, 1951, county authorities
were forbidden to “maintain, operate, or continue in exist-
ence any parks and recreational system or any department
or agency with any of the functions of such a system, except
under contract with the city of Atlanta.” According to the
act the legal title to all county-owned park and recreation
property was to pass to the municipality in which it was
located. The city of Atlanta was authorized on request of
the county authorities to furnish recreation facilities, per-
sonnel, and services and to acquire and operate a park and
recreation system in the unincorporated areas of the county
under a contract setting forth the compensation to be paid
the city for this service. Another act passed on February 22,
1951 abolished the county parks and recreation commission
in Fulton County.

Since 1952, the city of Atlanta has furnished the total
public recreation service in the county except for the pro-
grams provided in two incorporated cities and it holds title
to properties formerly owned by the county. The entire cost
of the service has been met by the city, since the county has
not contracted for the operation of any areas. The managing

4‘59

 

1%,

. ., _, 4...“, 1—.

The H urou-C lintou Metropolitan Authority represents the cooperative action
of five Michigan counties. Its extensive nature program includes apiary lore.

authority is the Atlanta Department of Parks, which is under
a policy-making aldermanic committee, the members of
which are designated to the committee by the mayor. There
is no county representation.

It is estimated that about half of the participation in the
park and recreation program is by city residents and half
by persons living in outside areas. The Atlanta Departmcnt
of Parks is not an area-wide agency, however, because its
services are limited to Fulton County. This is only onc of
five counties comprising the Atlanta metropolitan area, al-
though it does contain approximately fifty-five perccnt of
the population of the area. The city-county plan has hecn
considered efiective, but its application has been limited be-
cause of the lack of county financial support.

Baton Rouge-East Baton Rouge Parish, Louisiana.
The Recreation and Park Commission for East Baton Rouge
Parish, created in 1952, is a true metropolitan area agency
since the Baton Rouge area consists of only one parish
(county). The situation is unusual in that under the city-
parish charter there is only one city-parish governing body.
The recreation and park commission is a separate organiza-
tion and under the charter it has “exclusive responsibility
for the provision of park and recreation facilities” in the
parish. Six of the nine members of the commission are ap-
pointed by the parish council; the others are the mayor-
president or a representative, a member of the city-parish
school hoard, and a member of the planning commission.
The commission, when created, was made responsible for the
maintenance, management, and control of all the recreation
areas belonging to both the city and the parish, and it pro-

460

-f‘»

.. - .‘pn.-.’ -- ‘=~ -'- ’-_._-._-_.;W a. .

D v .: -

 

 

John [1. Wanneley, HCMA chairman,
tees of] to open new IB-hole course.

vides programs in many communities throughout the parish.

Two~thirds of the commission’s funds come from prop-
erty taxes throughout the parish, the balancc from fecs and
charges. One of the towns in the parish has a recreation
department which works with the commission and appropri-
ates funds toward thc cost of the local program ofTered hy the
commission. A capital budget is submittcd each year to thc
planning commission, but bonds may not be issued and
money may not he spent by the commission for land purchasc
or improvemcnts unless the project has been approved by
the planning commission and included in the capital hudget,
or unless it is authorizcd by a vote of at least six mcmbcrs
of the recreation and park commission.

Indianapolis-Marion County, Indiana. A unified park
and recreation service for the Indianapolis metropolitan
area, which comprises Marion County, has hecn made pos-
sible by enlarging the powers of the Indianapolis Board of
Park Commissioners. In 1961 the Statc of Indiana enacted
lcgislation (Chapter 279, Acts of 1961) providing that thc
territory within a park district of a city of the first class and
the jurisdiction of its department of public parks and hoard
of park commissioners “shall he extended to cover all of the
area within the county” in which it is located. Upon the ex-
tension of the boundaries of any city park district pursuant
to this act the board of park commissioners is to consist of
five members, three to be appointed by the mayor of the city
and two by the county council. The members named by the
county council must be residents of the park district lying
outside the city boundaries.

All the territory within thc city of the first class and all

RECREATION

-‘J

 

-‘.-

Regional park and recreation agencies provide an assort-
ment of larger facilities such as beaches and bridle paths.

the rest of the county area constitute a taxing district for
the purpose of levying special benefit taxes for park pur-
poses. This term covers the estahlishment, equipment, and
operation of parks, recreation centers, and a variety of rec-
reation areas and facilities. The board of park commis-
sioners is given the exclusive government, management, and
control of all parks, playgrounds, recreation centers, and
other recreation facilities within or outside the city except
as otherwise provided by the act.

Any city or town in the county that becomes a park dis-
trict may at any time establish and operate parks and other
recreation facilities and may continue to maintain and oper-
ate existing ,parks and facilities, completely separate and
apart from the jurisdiction of the board of park commis-
sioners. However, the governing body of such a city or town
may elect by adopting a resolution or ordinance to transfer
control and jurisdiction of its parks or other recreation facil-
ities to the board of the park district. Operation of separate
parks or recreation facilities by a city or town does not re-
lieve it of the obligation to pay all taxes imposed on property
within the park district.

Since live percent or more of the registered voters of the
county did not; file remonstrances by January 1, 1962, as
permitted in the act, the Indianapolis Board of Park Com-
missioners has been enlarged to become the district board.
As provided by the act, it has the possibility of becoming
an authority that can provide park and recreation service
for the entire metropolitan area (Marion County). After
the Indianapolis-Marion County Board has been in opera-
tion for a period, its experience should afford a basis for
evaluating this type of organization for providing recrea-
tion for a metropolitan area.

NOVEMBER, 1962

@ADMINISTRATION

 

 

These Open and natural areas, administered on a regional
basis, afford opportunities for outdoor sports and games.

SEVERAL AGENCIES have been created to acquire, develop,
and operate a system of regional parks that serve the
residents of one or more metropolitan areas. They do not
provide the types of neighborhood and community service
normally provided by municipal recreation agencies but
rather supplement municipal recreation areas, facilities, and
programs. Examples of regional park agencies are the East
Bay Regional Park District in California, the Huron-Clinton
Metropolitan Authority in Michigan, and the Metropolitan
District Commission in Massachusetts which pioneered the
regional park system setup.

East Bay Regional Park District. This district was
formed in 1934 by vote of the citizens of Oakland, Berkeley,
Alameda, San Leandro, Emeryville, Albany, and Piedmont
—California cities comprising a part of the San Francisco-
Oakland metropolitan area. Since 1928, citizens and organ—
izations in the East Bay area had worked for the acquisition
of some ten thousand acres held by the East Bay Municipal
Utility District in the hilly lands behind East Bay, for de-
velopment as a natural park and recreation area. Passage
of a regional park enahling act as an addition to the Public
Resources Code provided the legal means for establishing
the park district. A board of directors of five members was
elected to serve the new district.

A maximum tax of live cents on the $100 assessed valua-
tion was set in the regional park act and yields nearly $600,-'
000 per year. The five parks comprising eighty-three hun-
dred acres at the end of 1960 have been purchased from tax
funds at a cost of more than $1,500,000. Many recreation
facilities have been constructed in the parks, among them
two bathing beaches, a golf course, swimming pool, one

461

 " 1 miles of bridle trails, camps, clubhouses, picnic
' .' "Id 1 seven-hundred acre nature center with trails
arm of natural history. A constantly increasing

- ' ' a 4891‘s attests the value of these attractive regional

'I ht Huron-Clinton Metropolitan Authority. This au-
thoritv, which operates a system of outlying parks in the
Detroit and Ann Arbor metropolitan areas, affords an ex-
ample of cooperative action by the authorities of five coun-
ties. Its legal basis rests upon a 1939 state act which was
subsequently ratified by vote of the people of the five coun-
ties. Under the provisions of the act, the counties of Liv-
ingston, Macomb, Oakland, Washtenaw, and Wayne joined
a metropolitan district for planning, promoting, acquiring,
constructing, developing, maintaining, and operating parks,
connecting drives, and limited access highways.

The governing body of the authority, under the act, is a
board of commissioners consisting of one member elected
by the board of supervisors of each county and two members

.- .

appointed by the governor. Its purposes can be carried out
by the authority acting alone or in cooperation with the
state department of conservation or highway department
or any board of county road commissioners ( who serve as
the park authority in Michigan counties), or any federal or
other state or local body having authority to construct and
maintain parks and parkways.

The role of the authority is not to SUpplant the responsi-
bilities of local governing units to provide municipal and
county areas and facilities or of state and federal agencies
to acquire large tracts for the preservation of natural features
with little or no development. Its endeavor is to supplement
all other efforts by acquiring and preserving not too distant
land in anticipation of urban trends and to create and Oper-
ate new recreation areas where large numbers of people can
relax and enjoy their leisure time in the environment of
“open country.”

The maximum levy of one quarter mill on the total as-
sessed valuation of the district yields approximately $3,000,-
000 per year. By the end of 1960 the authority had acquired
six properties totaling 14,530 acres and was in the process
of acquiring another large area.

The Metropolitan District Commission, Boston. The
Boston metropolitan area was the first in this country to
take steps to provide a system of open spaces when, in 1892.
a group of civic leaders pioneered a metropolitan parks sys-
tem. The state legislature in 1893 passed legislation estab-
lishing a metropolitan parks commission to be appointed
by the governor and a parks district comprising thirty-eight
cities and towns in the Boston metropolitan area. The ob-
jective was to acquire. develop, and maintain certain park
lands and recreation areas on a regional basis. In 1919 the
functions of the commission and the Metropolitan Water
and Sewerage Board were combined under a metropolitan
district commission which operates the park system through
a parks division.

The commission has acquired a ring of inland and river

462

In June 1962, the voters of Davison County and
Nashville, Tennessee, approved, by a vote of 36,978 to
28,1 13, a merger of city and county governments under
a consolidated metropolitan government. Under the

terms of the charter, the new government will begin
Operations in the spring of 1963 under a metr0politan
council which will assume the legislative functions of
the present city council and county court. Parks and
recreation are among the area-wide functions, as con—
trasted with the urban services, which will be provided
within the city boundaries.

The charter provides for a board of parks and recrea-
tion of seven members. One will be a member of the
board of education, selected by that body; another a
member of the planning commission, selected by that
body; thc other five will be appointed -by the metro-
politan mayor and confirmed by a majority of the metro-
politan council.

The constitutionality of the new charter has bcen
questioned and the case will doubtless be appealed to
the State Supreme Court. If upheld, the charter will
make possible a coordinated city-county park and rec-
reation system and program.

 

valley reservations, several of them connected by parkways,
and major ocean beaches, which at the end of 1960 con“-
prised sixteen thousand acres. Many of its properties over-
lap municipal boundaries and its ocean beaches attract resi-
dents of the entire metropolitan area. During the five year
period 1955-1960 the commission spent $10,000,000 in bond
funds for the acquisition of new areas and for facility devel-
opment. Its current expenses are met primarily through a
levy on the cities and towns in the district, the amount de-
termined 011 the basis of their population and property
evaluation.

In recent years the commission, in response to a growing
public demand, has installed on its properties an increasing
number and variety of recreation facilities, somc of which
are normally provided by local authorities. Among these
facilities are golf courses, swimming pools, bridle trails,
boating centers, bathing bcachcs, picnic centers, artificial
ice skating rinks, camps, balllields, and game courts. The
commission has also turned over to local governments por-
tions of its lands for the purpose of establishing playgrounds
and other units designed primarily for the use of local resi-
dents. The mctropolitan system supplements local park and
recreation areas and facilities by making available to the
entire population of the region properties of a size. type, and
diversity that few of the local communities can provide.

Because of its experience, properties, and financial re-
sources, the commission is in a position to help coordinate
an overall plan for a well-balanced and integrated program
to be provided in cooperation with other public authorities
and private agencies in the district. Recommendations for
c00perative planning and coordination were included in a
comprehensive long-range report prepared for the commis-

sion in 1956. if:

I This is the last of a series of three articles. Parts I and II
appeared in September and October, 1962.

RECREATION

RESEARCH
BRIEFS

 

 

I;

George D. Butler

Profile for Planning

A unique approach to measuring the need for leisure-time
services in a metropolitan area is presented in Pronle for
Planning, issued by the United Community Services of Met-
ropolitan Boston. It records the results of a survey designed
to determine the factors that influence need for leisure-time
services, appraises the adequacy of existing services and de-
termines the relationship between needs and services in
thirty-eight social-planning districts in the region. In com-
paring the extent and urgency of need among the thirty-
eight social-planning segments, thirteen factors were taken
into account. Three of these are selected population factors,
seven are selected social characteristics, and three deal with
the percent of dwelling units which are in public housing
developments, the percent of foreign-born white population,
and the percent sixty-five years of age and over. A system
of scoring need was devised in which special weight was
given to the socio-economic factors.

In the appraisal of existing services and facilities; use was
made of jury judgments based on facilities, leadership, pro-
gram activities, use-participation, and finances-costs. These
were judged according to standards and criteria, many
developed by the National Recreation Association, and a
scoring plan was utilized for each factor. The results are
presented in two ways: one is a scattergram which, in a single
chart, indicates the relative need for service in the various
planning segments; the other consists of a set of profiles for
each segment indicating the relationship between needs and
services and comparing the situation in the segment with
that in the otheriplanning units. Profile for Planning will be
of interest to all who are concerned with the evaluation of
community recreation services. A copy may be secured for
$3.00 from United Community Services of Metropolitan
Boston, 14 Summer Street, Boston 8.

Anditorilnn Facilities

The city of_Saginaw, Michigan has issued a report en-
titled A Study of Saginaw’s Existing Auditorium Facilities
and Future Needs. It records a study designed to determine
the nature of the facilities that should be provided for the
city, their location, and the means of financing them. Among
the topics covered are the type and size of the facilities
needed, parking facilities, size of site, estimated cost for site
improvements, and feasibility of phase construction. Tahles
illustrate the potential uses of such facilities as the arena,
meeting-room hall, and music hall-theater. Various methods

NOVEMBER, 1962

of financing the proposals are considered, with recommenda-
tions in order of priority. This study should be of value to all
cities considering the development of auditorium facilities.

In Comparison

The question is often asked as to the relationship between
the amount spent for recreation by private or voluntary
agencies and by local government. A publication entitled
Total Expenditure Study 1959 issued by the Health and We]-
fare Council, Inc. records the expenditures for health, wel-
fare, and recreation services in five counties of southeastern
Pennsylvania. Included are expenditures for recreation hy
such agencies as the YMCA and YWCA, boys’ and girls’
clubs, settlements, scouting, resident camps, and puhlic rec-
reation agencies. Services rendered by private agencies do
not include dormitories, cafeterias, and formal education
activities. Public recreation services cover program costs
and the amount spent for maintaining areas used for organ-
ized and active rccreation, but do not include the mainte-
nance of general park areas and special facilities such as
museums, libraries, zoos, and botanical gardens. Resident
camp programs of both public and private agencies are re-
ported under a separate heading.

Total recreation expenditures in the five counties in 1959
were $16,658,655. This amount represented an average per
capita expenditure of $4.64 and 5.9 percent of the total
amount spent for health, welfare, recreation, and central
services. 0f the amount spent for recreation, 55.3 percent
was spent by private agencies, 44.7 percent by government
agencies. The sources of recreation funds were: govern-
ment, 43.6 percent; fees, 17.9 percent; voluntary contribu-
tion, 31.2 percent; all other agencies, 7.3 percent. A copy
of the report may be secured from the Health and Welfare
Council, Inc., 1617 Pennsylvania Boulevard, Philadelphia 3,
for $2.00.

Contribution of Volunteers

To find an answer to the repeatedly asked question as to
the extent to which volunteers contribute to the local recrea-
tion program, the Austin, Texas, Recreation Department
made a study of volunteers. The results afforded evidence
of the significant contribution made by individuals 'who
contributed their service to the department in various ways.
In making the study, the contributions of volunteers were
classified as follows: (1) administrative or advisory—per-
sons who serve on boards or as officers of sponsored activi-
ties; (2) activity or group Ieaderslripwpersons who give
regular and direct leadership or instruction to an activity;
non-Ieadership—this type of volunteer contributes many
services (clerical, maintenance, publicity, transportation,
preparing party meals, scorekecping, refereeing, fund rais-
ing, librarian, judges, etcetera); and (41) cooperating or-
ganizations—these include organizations which cooperate
with the Austin Recreation Department on a regular or

Continued on Page 466

463

 “ATE

.J a 11D

LOCAL
DEVELOPMENTS

Elvira Delany

 

CALIFORNIA. With the installation of a recirculating sys-
tem, the newly established stream in the native plant section
of Descanso Gardens at La Canada is now flowing on a year-
round basis. The new stream will simulate natural condi-
tions as it flows through the native plant section. At the
source are water-loving ferns and plants, native California
bleeding hearts and columbines. Further downstream are
many native dogwood and Catalina ironwood trees as well
as bay, alder, and maple trees. The garden is a facility of
the Los Angeles County Department of Arboreta and Botanic
Gardens.

0 In its continuous quest to meet future public recreation
needs, Los Angeles County Parks and Recreation Depart-
ment has, to date, acquired 4,087 acres in Antelope Valley

and north county regions. Gradually the county is obtaining
and developing new recreation areas, such as El Dorado Park
at Lancaster and Lane Park at Quartz Hill, dedicated in the
late spring. Much of the park-recreation acquisition pro-
gram in the north area of the county has taken place within
the past six years as the population surge heads without
pause toward the northern and northeastern boundaries of
upper Los Angeles County. The first county park in Antc-
lope Valley was acquired in 1900.

Looking ahead to 1970, the Los Angeles County depart-
ment anticipates a county-wide population of nine million.
It estimates that thirteen thousand additional acres will he
needed, on a county-wide basis, to provide recreation park
space for the needs of these ninc million within the next
eight years.

Methods of acquiring the existing 4,087 acres in north
Los Angeles County were as follows: from the general county
fund, 175.85 acres; from some other public use, 412.66
acres; tax deeded land transferred to park and recreation
purposes, 1,650.26 acres; leased from the California State
Division of Beaches and Parks, 341.12 acres; grant deeds
from individuals or corporations, 237.37 acres; use permits
from the US. Forest Service, 1,270.25 acres.

0 Two citizens of Salinas, Herman Agnes and Andrew
Marks, have given a ninety-six hundred-acre forest tract

worth $4,000,000 to the state for a park.

FLORIDA. Three vast wildlife areas in the southeastern
portion of the state have been opened to the general public.
Until recently they have been accessible only by airboat but

464

access roads for motorists are now being provided. The con-
servation areas, totaling 867,000 acres (larger than the en-
tire state of Rhode Island) , have been created in the Central
and Southern Florida Flood Control District, a joint federal-
state project begun twelve years ago. To date the program
has cost about $90,000,000; total expected cost when com-
pl eted is $300,000,000.

Several federal and state agencies are involved in making
these areas accessible for fishing, hunting, boating, picnick-
ing, and other outdoor activities. They are the US. Fish and
Wildlife Service, the Florida Game and Fresh Water Fish

Commission, and the Florida Development Commission.

GEORGIA. During the past few years, Douglas has devel-
oped some fine recreation facilities. It now has two new
pools and a new community center, four good playgrounds,
and a lighted ballpark. The teen center is being rehabilitated
also. Just outside the city, the county owns a fine park site
of 122 acres. During the past two years, it has built a foot-
ball stadium and lighted it, built roads, and created two lakes.
Plans call for a full line of new facilities, including a com-
munity center building. a pool, tennis courts, picnic areas,
a riding stable, etcetera.

0 Things couldn’t be better in Valdosta, which is ready at
last to establish a recreation program. It has passed a $4.60,-
000 bond issue for new facilities and a two-mills tax for oper-
ation of the program. It plans to go right ahead and develop
a full-time citywide recrcation department.

0 In Atlanta, the Mead Packaging Corporation has given
land worth $100,000, including a lodge, fishing boats, play-
grounds, and a sightseeing barge to the Metropolitan Atlanta

Boys’ Club.

INDIANA. The city of Muncie is developing its Prairie

Creek Recreation Area on a beautiful new grass farm of ap-
proximatcly 1,081 acres situatcd in an activc waterworks
company reservoir. The land has been leased by the city
for park purposes to the board of park commissioners. The
lease is for a term of sixty years and is renewable. Thc reser-
voir was complcted in 1959 and contains 1,252 acres of
water. The land lcascd to the city borders this body of water,
completely cncircling it. It varies from flve hundred to two
thousand fect in width and, when completed, is expcctcd to
serve the counties within fifty miles of the recreation area
fa pOpulation of 2,500,000 peOple) . The lcase specifically
states that the land is to be used solely for rccreation facilities
for the public of the city of Muncie and its surrounding
areas. The Muncie Waterworks Company must approve the
exact location of each recreation facility bcfore it is con-
structed.

The plans call for many varied types of recrcation areas,
including motorboat facilities, sailboat launching site, park-
ing areas, two swimming arcas, courts for tcnnis, basketball,
volleyball, and softball, several picnic sites, and a camping
area that will provide three hundred sites. Also a bandshcll,
playground sites and apparatus, an eighteen-hole golf course,
archery range, botanical garden, a children’s miniature farm
for 2.00) , an Indian village, and a wilderness area for con-
ducting wildlife experiments and outdoor projects.

RECREATION

MAINE. With the dedication of Lily Bay State Park on
Moosehead Lake this summer Maine now has tWelve state
parks. The newest addition lies a third of the way up Moose-
head’s eastern shore and offers camping facilities, picnic
areas, some of the bcst fishing in the state, swimming, and
boating in an area of heavy woods and mountains.

NEW HAMPSHIRE. They literally “took to the air” in
New Hampshirc this fall to erect four major uphill lifts at the
two state-operated ski centers. The airlift was employed to
erect eighty steel towers for four double chairlifts at Cannon
Mountain in Franconz'a and at Mt. Sunapee in Newbury.
Flying five hours daily, a heavy-duty helicopter made nearly
125 round-trip flights on 4,100-foot Cannon Mountain and
2.700-foot Mt. Sunapee to hoist an estimated 185 tons of
steel towers and their assemblies to their predesignated
places. The work was performed for the New Hampshire
Division of Parks and was under the technical supervision
of the State Public Works and Highways Department. The
O. D. Hopkins Company of Contoocook, New Hampshire,
was responsible for the lift erection on both mountains. All
were designed and manufactured by John A. Roehling 8;
Sons of Trenton, New Jersey.

The conventional, time-consuming method of lift erection
includes hauling the heavy steel up a mountain by sled and
hoisting each tower to correct position by gin poles and
winches. Under the plan conceived by Mr. Hopkins, the
steelwork was laid out at each mountain base according to
its planned position on the mountain and painted. In most
cases, complete tower assemblies were flown by the helicop-
ter, capable of carrying maximum loads of four thousand
pounds, to previously poured concrete footings. While the
chopper hovered overhead. workmen helow eased the tuhular
steel towers onto A-bolts in each foundation, set the tower at
the correct angle and tightened the bolts into place. The heli-
copter was not loaded to its capacity at any time, but was
able on each trip to carry the towers, most of which vary in
length from twenty to thirty-five feet, and their component
parts. (Each tower, its crossbeams, and sheaves bear the
weight of the carrying cables and chairs which transport
skiers.) .The exceptions were the upper tension terminals
for all four lifts which, because of their weight, required
four flights per terminal. Three tension terminals included
bull wheels ten feet in diameter.

Forty-eight trips alone were required to set twenty-seven

‘ EPIGRAPH |

(After John Donne)

N0 MAN is an island unto himself, every man is a
piece of the living continent; if a clod be washed
away from the continent to the sea, every man is the
less; any living thing’s death diminishes me because
I am involved in the living community entire, and
therefore never need to know for whom the bulldozer
roars; it roars for thee.—-C. J. S. DURHAM in The Na—
ture Conservancy News, October—December 1961.

NOVEMBER, 1962

line toners and two extra-strong towers (one, fifty feet; the
other, forty feet high) to give added strength to the 6,800-
foot multi-purpose chairlift gondola where it crosses over
the converted double chairlift at Mt. Sunapce. (The lift will
carry gondolas in summer only.) A separate trip was re-
quired for the bull wheel of this lift, which measures eleven
feet in diameter and weighs 2,940 pounds.

NEW’ JERSEY. The Sportsmen’s Development Corpora-

tion of New Jersey has been franchised by the Winchester-
Western Division of the Olin Mathieson Chemical Corpora-
tion to build and maintain an experimental public shooting
grounds. Called the Winchester Gun Club, the new facilities
at Ringwood offer the New York City metropolitan area’s
shooting public day or night shooting on two skeet fields,
two trap fields, and one practice range. Also included are a
modern clubhouse and a parking area. The new club may
be reserved for special shoots by industrial, social, and sport-
ing organizations.

0 One of the most exciting projects ever to be undertaken
by the Essex County Park Commission is the new zoo sched-
uled to open in the late spring of 1963 on South Mountain
Reservation. The $400,000 for the zoo was obtained by the
sale of parkland for highway purposes. The area will consist
of approximately fifteen acres including a one—and-a-half-
acre children’s zoo. The new facility will be adjacent to the
commission’s skating rink on South Mountain and will util-
ize the rink’s parking area, thus avoiding cutting down any
more trees than necessary. Guarding the entrance to the chil-
dren’s zoo will be the tentacles of an octopus sculpture. Plans
for the miniature area call for tropical fish, a bear cub pit,
a prairie dog castle, anthill, slab of Swiss cheese housing
mice, a miniature 1865 railroad, an animal feeding area with
lamas, sheep, and goats, and paddocks with bison and elk.
A barn and silo will house the maintenance department, an
infirmary, and supplies. The administration building will
be in Old English Tudor style with turrets.

NEW YORK. The Westchester County Department of
Parks, Recreation and Conservation recently opened a new
thirty-acre picnic grove at Ward Pound Ridge Reservation
at Cross River. About a hundred picnic tables and benches
and fifty charcoal fireplaces, as well as drinking fountains
and toilet facilities, are available. There are open playfields
adjoining and playground equipment will be added. The
reservation was originally a series of farms that were ac-
quired and brought together to make up the recreation area.
0 A new five hundred-acre wildlife sanctuary is being de-
veloped by the town of Oyster Bay near Jones Beach on Long
Island. The sanctuary is on the site of an old private hunting
preserve. The state conservation department has helped pre-
pare the area for public use with a paved access road, paved
parking lot, a twenty-five-foot observation tower, and two
miles of nature trails.

OHIO. In Cincinnati, the city council recently passed an
ordinance authorizing the recreation commission to expend
$125,000 from its permanent improvement fund for the de-
velopment of Walter S. Schmidt Playfield along the river-
front. The council also passed an ordinance authorizing the

465

*1.

' . no of $35,000 for rehabilitation and recreation de-
of various areas. \ third srdinance authorized
liture of $70,000 from .1 .'

ml for acquiring and des'e-l: I .45; ltiverside Playfield

. 111's; . n western riverfront.

’ 1

3t rmanent improve-

VIRGINIA. \n eleven-square-mile community ncar Wash-
ington that will eventually have a population of 75,000 is
being planned as a self-contained economic unit. It will have
homes, light industry, shopping centers, and recreation
facilities.

The community will be called Restart. The site is eighteen
miles from downtown Washington and four miles from the
new Dulles International Airport. Groundbreaking for the
initial phase of the community, an industrial park section, is
expected to take place next year. About fifteen years will
be required to finish the project. The total cost is estimated
at $500,000,000.

Several individual residential neighborhoods will be built.
Each neighborhood will have single-family houses, town
houses, and apartment buildings. Some of the units will be
designed specifically for elderly people. Each neighborhood
will have shopping facilities, an elementary school, a house
of worship and recreation facilities, such as tennis courts,
swimming pool, and a play area for children. The single-
family houses will be built in clusters, with each group of
homes sharing open space. These neighborhood recreation
facilities will be supplemented by three golf courses. two

Research Briefs
Continued from Page 459

 

yearly basis to promote individual or sustaining programs.

An analysis was made of the extent to which the various
types of volunteers were used in each program division. It
was possible to record accurately the services of “activity or
group leaders,” but in the other categories it was necessary
to estimate the number of individuals and the hours con-
tributed. A summary of the i'esults follows:

Program Activity ,| Administrative Non- ' (ooperating
Divisions leadership A Advisory leadership Organizations
lndivi- Hrs. per
duals year
Administration — — 15 -—- -—-—
Recreation
Centers 146 7376 85 402 21
Natural Science 127 744 37 120 8
Sports 182 9258 30 83 4
Playgrounds . 22 610 40 150 1
Community
Recreation“ ‘ 35 2923 164 170 16
TOTALS ‘ 512 20911 371 925 50

*Special areas of interest organized on city-wide basis; for example.
gardening, nature, dance, music, special events.

Visitor Fatalities

A report of visitor fatalities in the National Park Service
covering the ten-year period 1952-1961 has been prepared
by its Chief Safety Officer Nathan C. Baker. Only accident

466

lakes, and horseback riding clubs which will serve the entire
development.

c On January 1, 1963, the state will have two new cities
when Virginia Beach and Chesapeake will become legal mu-
nicipalities, according to Noveles, newsletter of the Virginia
Recreation Society. The new city of Virginia Beach will in-
clude both the current city of Virginia Beach and all of Prin-
cess Anne County. Chesapeake will result from the merger
of South Norfolk and Norfolk County. The city of South
Norfolk is the only division of either merger which boasts
a recreation department. Norfolk County has operated a
summer program under the direction of the schools employ-
ing the high-school coaches. Princess Anne County once had
a department, but abandoned it and turned over the job to
the public schools. Virginia Beach has operated a summer
program. At the present time, Princess Anne County is hav-
ing a pilot study made regarding recreation and will pro-
ceed according to the study’s recommendations.

Municipal recreation will be a difficult task in either case,
according to Noveles, because of‘the number of isolated ur-
ban communities and the high degree of farmland in both
cities. In neither case has there been much planning for com-
munity recreation facilities except in some of the Norfolk
County schools. Subdivisions have multiplied in both Nor-
folk and Princess Anne Counties with not even playgrounds
being provided by the builders. The government bodies have
not required such a provision even after it was recom-
mended by the Southeastern Virginia Regional Planning
Commission.

fatalities are included. In 1952, forty-four fatalities were
reported among the 42,229,836 visitors, or 1.041 fatalities per
million. These figures compare with the 1961 record of
sixty-four fatalities among 79,040,000 visitors, or .80 fatali-
ties per million visitors. Causes of the fatalities over the
year were: drowning, 206; motor vehicles, 191; falls, 64;
and all others, 223. Although the rate of fatalities over the
decade has declined, the National Park Service is concerned
that there should be a further reduction in the years ahead.

Recreation Salaries

A comparison of the salaries paid the heads of rccreation
departments in North Carolina cities with salaries paid beads
of other city departments was made by John R. Brady, a
student at North Carolina State College. The results of the
study were issued by the North Carolina Recreation Com-
mission. The salary data included the amounts paid heads
of engineering, fire, police, public works and utilities, and
water and sewer departments.

In three of the six population groups the salaries of rec-
reation department heads are lowest. This is true in cities
of 60,000 and over, 30,000-60,000, and 10,000-15,000. In
three other population categories, recreation executives’
salaries rank third, fourth, and fifth lowest, respectively. Of
the personnel whose salaries are surpassed by the mean rcc-
reation salary, the fire department ranks lower three times,
the water and sewer department two times, and the police
department only once.

RECREATION

 

 

  

 
    

III III.

7
’1

REEF-5'! PEP-E:

RECREATION

  

DIGEST

GOVERNMENT and the ARTS

What should be the precise relationship between govern-
ment and the arts in a free society? In order to answer this
question, President Kennedy recently appointed August
Hechscher, director of the Twentieth Century Fund, as his
Special Consultant on the Arts. Mr. Hechscher’s principal
task is to systematically examine this complex problem and
attempt to come up with a workable answer. Here he divulges
his approach to this comprehensive assignment.

August Heekscher

WHEN PRESIDENT KENNEDY first
asked me to serve as his Special
Consultant on the Arts, he said that the
administration has a deep interest in the
role of the arts in American life. He was
not speaking only of the government’s
interest in international cultural ex-
change programs which arc being car-
ried out. and carried out well. What government hasn’t con-

 

cerned itself with heretofore is encouragement of the arts
within the United States. A separation between government
and the arts has existed almost as if there was a constitut-
ional injunction—something akin to the separation of
church and state—and it is with this relationship that the
President is now concerned. He told me that, thus far, the

This material is condensed from Challenge, the Magazine of
Economic A hairs, published by the Institute of Economic
A fiairs, New York University.

NOVEMBER, 1962

administration has demonstrated its interest in the arts by
inviting distinguished artists and intellectuals to the White
House or through the commemoration of significant occa-
sions. Now, however, the President believes that the time
has come when we ought to examine the relationship be-
tween government and the arts somewhat systematically and
see what is involved in terms of a continuing policy. This,
in essence, is my task. Since the position is a newly created
one, the exact nature of its duties are still in an evolutionary
stage.

I have long believed that the government has a limited
but significant role to play in relation to the world of art.
During my brief experience as White House consultant,
this belief has been confirmed. It has been confirmed in the
sense that the more deeply I examined these things,_the
more fully aware I became of what previously might have
been mere impressions. It has also been confirmed as a
result of the substantial evidence of popular interest in this
field. I have been impressed by the reception which the
press, private organizations concerned with the arts, and
individual members of the artistic community have given
to the White House appointment. While recognizcd as a
tentative and modest beginning, it is generally seen as a step
in the right direction. The President was very anxious that
the work should begin modestly. Perhaps we were afraid
of hearing charges that the administration is going to
“socialize” art or start a boondoggling program. All the
old chiches of that sort might have been used. But, surpris-
ingly enough, they were not. The press has been widely in-

4467

r" "d and almost uniformly favorable to the idea. Of
as we go ahead and try to implement our ideas, we

ll;- rxpect some reactions of a different kind. But

. all) favorable public reaction is one of the things
i. . . a - (on inced me that people look to their government

r... _ n itself with the state of the arts.

1‘1, ,.~.T m ALL. there should never be a complete separation

of gm ernment and art. Institutions, laws. and methods
of encouraging the arts are, of course, open to wide varia-
tions and changes from one country to another; but in all
countries the relationship between government and art ought
to be a vital one. Art is perhaps the supreme way in which
a nation can express its values and ideals visually and articu-
lately. After all, what is politics but the means through which
people translate into reality the kind of society they want to
live in? It is their principal means of bringing the exterior
world closer to the values and images they keep within them-
selves. So, in a sense, the cities we live in are outward man-
ifestations of the inner tendencies and desires of the people.
Once you accept that, then it seems to me you have to accept
the idea that art, taken in the broader sense, is also a reflec-
tion of the people’s ideals. There have been periods when
the artist was thought of as being alienated from society and
having no relationship to the ordinary life of his times. And
there have also been periods, such as the Middle Ages, when
the artist was very closely involved with the life of the peo-
ple, when art enhanced their everyday existence, the houses
they lived in. the flags they carried into hattle, the instru-
ments they used in their religious worship. and so forth. The
great churches and temples of the past were, of course, all
ennohled through art.

Today, we are again in a period when the artist is not out
on a limb by himself. He is not merely creating art for art’s
sake; he is once again giving his own expression to the kind
of insights and prophecies which the physicist is finding in
his research, which the psychologist is discovering within
the human mind, which the explorers of space are beginning
to sense within themselves.

The government, without being fully aware of it, has al-
ready played a significant role in relation to the arts. This
is not to say that it couldn’t have done more or done better;
but it has been touching the cultural life in a hundred ways.
Since government is directly concerned with the construction
of many public buildings, it should build with beauty, as
well as utility, in mind. Government purchases and commis-
sions a great deal of art. It therefore has a public obligation
to make certain that the art it acquires is marked by excel-
lence. It is obligated to see that it is kept in the best possible
condition and effectively displayed and made available to
the public. The government is both a printer and a coiner
on a very large scale. Shall it merely provide these services
on a utilitarian basis or should it not examine the possibili-
ties which reside in these functions to ensure that the quality

of the products befits the government of a culturally ambi-
tious people?

YOU CERTAINLY FIND a much greater hospitality toward
the arts in Congress than you would have found only

468

five years ago. This, in my opinion, is a direct result of the
increased public interest. Most congressmen are no longer
worried about a hostile reaction from their constituents if
they do something to help the arts. In fact, representatives
from urban areas feel that it is definitely to their advantage
to take an interest in cultural matters, since a significant per-
centage of city dwellers are vitally interested in this field.
Nevertheless, Congress is very cautious and prudent in this
area, and it naturally tends to think in terms of priorities.
National defense comes first. That is the supreme priority.
And art, perhaps, comes last. It is usually considered a sort
of luxury. Consequently, where there is just so much money
to go around, art is usually the easiest to neglect. My own
view is that it is misleading to think rigidly and exclusively
in terms of such priorities. Arms and the arts are, in fact,
both necessary to the healthy society.

Actually, government is already subsidizing [cultural]
institutions by considering donations to them as tax exempt
in cases where they are nonprofit. That should not be over-
looked. In other ways, different levels of the government
are supporting the arts directly or indirectly. Municipal
governments are doing it—although not on as large a scale
as I think they should. The city of New York, for example.
pays for the maintenance and running (the guards, and so
on) of the building which houses the Metropolitan Museum
of Art. The museum’s board, however, has complete control
over its policies, exhibitions and acquisitions.

GREAT GOVERNMENTS and great art have always gone hand

in hand. All the important nations and empires of the
past distinguished themselves through notable cultural and
artistic achievments. Great nations have always been char-
acterized by great art. This kind of achievement is some-
thing which, by its very nature, is a public responsibility. It
falls to the citizen; it may ultimately fall to the taxpayer.
Institutions of art have never becn self-supporting, any more
than have schools and hospitals. This is something that must
be acccpted as a fact of life.

The first decades of our [country’s] history saw a close
relationship between government and the arts. Our early
presidents—Washington, Adams, and Jefferson—were taken
with the idea that a government aiming at distinction and
greatness should surround itself with noble works. As a con-
sequence, the public buildings of that period were conceived
on the grand scale. The founding fathers liked to dream
about an Athens in the wildcrness.

The arts appeared to be less important as the nation be-
came preoccupied with westward expansion and the conquest
of a wilderness. Now, we are gradually returning to our
early tradition. Actually, we are only doing what practically
every other government has done sincc ancient times. There
isn’t a European government today that doesn’t support the
arts and look upon them as a measure of its national attain-
ment.

Private support of the arts is uniquely important in the
American cultural scene. Nothing like it exists in any other
country. In any measures of support which may come from
government at various levels in the years ahead, we must

RECREATION

«be exceedingly careful not to set back the cause of private
giving. 011 this hasis we have built up symphony orchestras
which are generally considered the best in the world; wc
have created a varied, livcly, and inventive cultural lifc. To
jeopardize the existing channcls of support would be folly.
0n the other hand, it is well for those who have the great
institutions of art in their trust to look ahead and to make
practicable plans for the future. Today, the costs of all our
cultural institutions are increasing; building and mainte-
nance are higher than ever before; the salaries paid our per-
forming artists are rising, and must rise commensurate with
what we pay others in our society. The very enthusiasm of
the public, the demands which the mass audience is making
upon our museums and other cultural centers, is causing

these institutions to undertake fresh burdens. Many are in
difliculty, not because of public neglect, but because of con-
stantly increasing public demands. In these circumstances,
we must all be alert to the need for new sources of revenue.
Some of this can certainly be met from the private sector.
The foundations may well be giving, over the next decade,
a considerably larger share to the arts than the present three
percent of their total gifts. The corporations are realizing
that money given for the arts in the communities where they
have employees is an assurance of a higher quality and more
stable labor force. But, when all is said and done, the public
sector will surely be called on for a larger share in support
of the arts. It is not too soon to begin now to think about

ways and means. #

 

As We Go To Press

Continued from Page 440

 

t TIIE 87TH CONGRESS “has provided
America with an unprecedented incre-
ment in new national parks and other
outdoor recreation facilities,” Secretary
of the Interior Stewart L. Udall said in
releasing a review of conservation mea-
sures enacted during the recently ad-
journed session.

“This nation is conscious as never
before of the need for adequate open
spaces to meet not only today’s growing
needs but those of future generations,”
says Secretary Udall. The report to Con-
gress cited the following highlights in
outdoor recreation:

1. In mounting tempo, America’s
technological progress and population
growth have threatened to engulf the
very resource that shaped our character
as a nation—the outdoor. To meet this
threat to fish and wildlife, forest, lake
and seashore, and to make Open spaces
available for outdoor recreation needs
to come, the 87th Congress acted with
unprecedented vigor.

With only 336 miles of the Atlantic
coast and 296 miles of the Pacific shore-
lines previously available as public
lands, the 87th Congress established
three new national seashores at Cape
Cod, Massachusetts, Point Reyes, Cali-
fornia, and Padre Island, Texas, ( see
Page 470), adding 285 miles of un-
spoiled seacoast to our National Park

System that this year will have accom-
modated more than 85,000,000 visitors.

2. Additionally, the National Park

System was further enriched with es-
tablishment of Haleakala National Park
in Hawaii; City of Refuge National
Historic Site, also in Hawaii; Buck ls-
land Reef National Memorial near St.
Croix, Virgin Islands; and Theodore

NOVEMBER, 1962

 

Roosevelt Birthplace and Sagamore Hill
National Historic Sites, and Alexander
Hamilton Grange National Memorial,

all in New York.

3. Expanding demands for outdoor
recreation also were met by passage of
legislation under which the Department
of the Interior will provide facilities at
almost two hundred federally operated '
wildlife refuges and fish hatcheries and
in departmental action that expanded
recreation use of public lands by mak-
ing them available to state and local
governments at the nominal fee of $2.50

per acrc. ( See RECREATION, September
1961, Page 385.)

4. Pursuant to the recommendation
of the Outdoor Recreation Resources
Review Commission (ORRRC) , the Ad-
ministration established a Bureau of
Outdoor Recreation. It has also recom-
mended sweeping new programs to as-
sist the states in planning farsighted out-
door recreation programs, and legisla-
tion to establish a Land Conservation
Fund to meet the growing need for out-
door recreation opportunities. (For di-
gest of ORRRC report see RECREATION,
March and April 1962.)

“These standout conservation accom-

plishnients have their duplicates in vir-
tually every other field of conservation,
resulting in unprecedented gains in wa-
ter resource devclopment, minerals uti-
lization, soil and forest management,
and development of power resources,”
Secretary Udall declares.

 
  
      
   
      

¢_

TABLE AND
CHAIR TRUCKS

   

  

itommc
PEDESTAL TABLES

Direct from foctory sov-
ing to Churches, Schools,
Clubs, lodges ond oll orgoni-
, zotions. MONROE 1963
.  _ Folding Bonquet Tobles ore
unmotched for quolity, duro-
bility, convenience ond hond-
some oppeoronce. 94 models and sizes for
every use. Write for prices, cotolog.

FREE-BIG 1963 CATALOG

Cotorptctures. FUN Hne MONROE tables. chairs,
table and chair trucks, platform-risers. port-
able partitions. Write todaylr

THE MONROE 00.. 181 Church St, Colfax, |o_wa

  

    
       
   
   
   
       

  

Partitions

   

 

MILTON HOOD WARD

& CO.

Hotel Plaza, New York l9. N. Y. o

, INC.

PLaza 3-7680

Capital and budget campaigns for:

Y’s Theatre Groups Pools

Community Centers Symphony Orchestras Libraries
In!“ Parks

@2 Complimentary conference on request

. a

Tamed? Member Firm, American Association of Fami Raising Counsel.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

469

OUR FOURTH NA TI ONAL SEASHORE

If.»an IsLA‘ND Nation: a. .Ishorv in

‘exas, establish. d r- . Con, ross l: ,te
in September. joins Point 11: ws in Can-
forum (1"62l. Cape Cod in .Ilassachn-
Stts 1 Hull. anal k ape Hatteras in
North Carolina 110.331 as a recreation
area of outstanding beauty preserved
for the inspiration of this and future
generations. Says Secretary of the In-
terior Stewart L. Tidal], “The establish-
ment of three national seashores in one
[Congressional] session is an historic
feat in the history of conservation. The
people of the United States and the gen-
erations to come now have a total of
about 285 miles of new shoreline for
their enjoyment. . . .”

Padre Island National Seashore on
the southern Texas coast, between Cor-
pus Christi and Port Isabel, embraces
the longest undeveloped segment of sea-
shore in the United States’ portion of

the Gulf of Mexico and will be adminis-

tered by the National Park Service. Lo-
cated on an offshore bar—117 miles in
length, of which eighty miles are in.
cluded in the national seashore——-—Padre
Island varies in width from less than an
eighth of a mile to about three miles.
The island is subtropical, hounded on
the west by the warm water of Laguna
Madre with its exceptional waterfowl
and fish habitat and on the east by the
clean, temperate waters of the Gulf of
Mexico. It has light-colored sand of a
fine texture and dunes—not entirely
stahilized in portions of the island—
varying from small mounds to hills
forty feet high. It is a classical example
of an offshore bar and presents an ex-
cellent opportunity to witness and study
the forces of sea deposition and erosion
at work. Its great size and remote char-
acter, its unbroken sweep of surf, sand.
grass-covered dunes. and marshes give
the island a wild spaciousness.

Padre Island is closer to interior
areas of the country than any point on
the Atlantic and Pacific coasts. For ex-
ample, people from as far north as
Minnesota, South Dakota, and North
Dakota will find Padre closer to their
homes than any place along the Atlantic
or Pacific seaboards. The island is dis-
tinctively different from Cape Cod and
Point Reyes. Cape Cod is, for the most
part, a fairly closely settled area with
centuries of history behind it; Point
Reyes is primarily a lush coastal area
with mountains and forests.

Padre, though it does not lie on the
very edge of great metrOpolitan areas
as do Point Reyes and Cape Cod, has a
substantial population within a five hun-
dred mile radius. New Orleans, Baton
Rouge. Shreveport, Oklahoma City.
Dallas, Fort Worth, San Antonio, Aus-
tin, Houston, Galveston, and Corpus
Christi all lie within this distance. if:

Reservoirs for Recreation
Conlirmed from Page 450

 

velopment of state plans for outdoor recreation programs.
(Public Law 87-70, signed inlo law Jufy 20, 1962.)

4. To estahlish an affirmative program of land acquisition
for recreation purposes. (Eight-year program submr'lled to
Congress A pril 4, 1962.)

5. To enable the states and local governments to acquire
surplus federal lands for park. recreation, or wildlife uses

on more liberal terms. (8. 2724, HJ’. 10429.)
6. To authorize a study of shorelines of the nation to

 

poptom vended for a dime! m1; means mo_re
mi" I2! my! 0.093 die!!! Eats an): tor
free details!

     

Also your for Cotton

headquarters Sno-Kones,
Candy, Papcorn Poppers, Hot Dogs etc!!

GOLD MEDAL PRODUUS (0.

1835 FREEMAN AVENUE, CINCINNATI 14, OHIO

        

develop a fcderal-Statc shoreline prescrvation program.

(S. 543).

i i I *

At the recent White House Conference on Conservation,
May 24-25. 1962, Secretary of the Interior Stewart L. Udall
summarized the Kennedy Administration’s conservation
goals and purposcs as follows:

0 Exploit science to “create” new resourccs and enlarge the
use of existing resourccs.

0 Give new vigor to traditional programs.

0 Unlock the resources of the sea.

0 Reserve for their high human uses the remnants of the
American wilderness.

o Wage an all-out attack on water and air pollution.

0 Help cities save open space and plan their growth.

0 Grow adequate tinihcr supplies for futurc needs.

0 Save the remaining shorelines for public use.

0 Learn to husband fresh water, and seek the means of ex-
tracting it from the sea.

0 Plan now the water development of all river basins.

o Preserve a viable hahitat for waterfowl and wildlife.

0 Mount a vigorous campaign—with invigorated state and
local participation—to enlarge the opportunities for outdoor
recreation.

0 Earniark military reservation lands as an ultimate con-
servation reserve for federal, state and local governments.
0 Estahlish a Youth Conservation Corps.

0 Share our conservation know-how and conservation ethic
with men everywhere. #1:

RECREATION

FOR THE ILL
AND HANDICAPPED

 

+ A program of recreation has been
organized for the blind senior citizens
of lowcr Westchester County, New York.
There are presently twenty-five mem-
bers in the program which has become
an integral part of the Mount Vernon
Senior Citizens’ Center. The group
meets regularly on Tuesday and on sev-
eral other mornings. Discussions of the
daily news, listening to readers provided
by the puhlic library and arts-and-crafts
sessions are some of the activities sched-
uled.

Luncheons for the weekly gatherings
are provided throughout the year by the
Lions Club. Volunteers assist in the pro-
gram, transportation and meals. The
\Vestchester County Department of
Parks, Recreation, and Conservation
provides the services of Mrs. Margaret
Yoder, arts and crafts instructor.

+ New Jersey’s Division on Aging for
the past three years has carried on a
program of small grants-in-aid to stim-
ulate and improve services to the elder-
ly. Development of restorative and
other rehabilitative services created a
need for recreation in the chronic ill-
ness institutions where patients wcre
improved to the point of “time on their
hands.” A grant for a trained recrea-
tion director to train and coordinate
volunteers is under way with a widen-
ing involvement of local government,
organizations and individuals.

Since only a small percentage of
Older people are ill or need welfare
assistance, programs for the aging well
person are also being evolved. A com-
munity-based employment program to
help retirees find suitable work was in-
itiated early in the grant program.
Funds for helping stall multi-service
community centcrs have been commit-
ted. Once under way with a rounded
program of recreation, counseling. re-
ferral to community resources and in-
teraction with the larger community, it
is helieved that such centers will be rec-
ognized as indispensable parts of a com-
plete community—From Added Years,
Newsletter of the New Jersey State Di-
vision on Aging, Aug. 1962.

DR. THOMPSON is acting director of the
National Recreation Association Con-
sulting Service on Recreation for the

Ill and Handicapped.

NOVEMBER, 1962

Morton Thompson, Ed.D.

+ The first of a series of regional insti-
tutes on socio-recreative programing for
the mentally retarded child living in the
community will be held in cooperation
with Teachers College, Columhia Uni-
versity, New York City, on Noveniher
8-10. This institute will be cO-chaired
by Mrs. R. Sargent Shriver, Jr., con-
sultant to the President’s Panel on Men-
tal Retardation, and Mrs. Katherine B.
Oettinger, chief of the US. Children’s
Bureau. It is jointly sponsored by the
National Association for Retarded Chil-
dren and Comeback, Inc.
Approximately 150 persons responsi-
ble for policy and administrative deci-
sions regarding service to retarded chil-
dren throughout the northeast region of
the United States are expected to attend
this first institute. Similar institutes will
be held in other regions throughout the
country during this next year. A plan
for providing socio-recreative services
for retarded children in local communi-
ties will be presented at these institutes.
Services will be designed to cnhance the
school-age retarded child’s vocational
potential, to prepare him as a retarded
teenager and young adult to make more

successful social and vocational adust-
ments.

+ The United Community Funds and
Councils of America, 345 East 44th
Street, New York City, has published a
bibliography of Health and Welfare Re-
search Projects in Local Communities.
This list, which costs $.75. includes
study reports on recreation for the
handicapped, camping, and rehabilita-
tion.

+ Lucy F. Fairbank, acting chief of
activity therapies for the Illinois De-
partment of Mental Health, reports an
annual series of training institutes for
employees in state hosiptals. The pro-
gram includes workshops, demonstra-
tions, study courses, and institutional
visits.

+ The Governor’s Council on Aging in
Olympia, Washington. has published a
pamphlet on Games and Folk Dances for
Seniors. The pamphlet was compiled hy
the Spokane County Park and Recrea-
tion Department. The contents inclnrlc
ice breakers, quiet games, active games.
paper and pencil games, table g'mies.
dice games, musical games, dance
games, and a variety of folk dances.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

   
   
  
   
   
   
   
     
   

A CHILD'S INTRODUCTION
TO SQUARE DANCING =~

Piute Pete and his famous Freedomland Band

 

AGES 4 T0 7

(Preschool to Grades 1 and 2)
The only album with seven play par-
ties (and one square dance) designed
especially for children aged 4 to 7.
Includes illustrated instruction manual

CONTENTS

Looby Lou; Shoo Fly; Climbing Up the
Mountain; Bingo; Take a Peek; Bow Be-
linda; Brown Eyed Mary; Come My Love

Twelve-inch LP, 33%rpm, $3.25
Order from

VILLAGE

RECREATION SERVICE
55 Wesl 81h Sireel New York 11. N. Y.

 

 

I"

GET THE GUS
TO VOCALIZE

WITH
NATIDNAL'S DANDY

"SING-ALONG SONG SLIDES”!!

Meetings that begin or end with sing-along sessions
are successful meetings! Watch your gang warm up
fast with a lusty group sing! Send for National's
fantastic free catalog of more than 850 all-time hit
songs. available in slide form for as low as 50c a
tune'. Need a projector? Let us know . . . we'll save
you real dough! Write today to:

NATIONAL STUDIOS
46 West 48th Street. N. Y. 36. N. Y.

 

 

ThePLAYGROUND
asMUSIC TEACHER

by CARABO-CONE

Available from

REIIREATION
BOOK [ENTER
8 Wesl 81h Slreel
New York I I
at $5.

 

Endorsed by Univ. psychologists.
Develops child's reading 8. rhythmic co-
ordination. Lecturesl consultations avail-
able. For introductory material plus
Keyboard Reading Chart send $1 to
Cone, Box 356, Scarsdale,_ N. Y.

m

471

 
   

For further information regarding any of the products
discussed below, simply circle its corresponding key num-
ber on coupon on facing color page and mail to us.

«- Expanded polystyrene foam material which has had many
industrial applications has found its way into the art field.
Utilized in flotation, packaging, and insulation, it is now
being used by sculptors to create art works up to nine feet
in height. The material is rather difficult for younger
children to use, but is an excellent media for teenagers and
adults or anyone who has suf’ricient artistic media training
to handle it. A carving knife and the foam are the only
materials necessary. However, the material can be sanded,
painted with a water-base paint, and can be cemented with
epoxy cements, or water-base glue. For further information,

circle #100.

. A high-impact fiberglass
marking buoy can be used as a
marine marking device for swim-
ming areas, specd zones, danger,
and waterski areas. The marker
is easily launched from small
boats by one man. It weighs ap-
proximately twcnty-five pounds
and will withstand any severe
impact or vandal action. It will
never rust and needs no mainte-
nance. The 5herglass base is
foamed with a closed cell-type
polyurethane that prevents any
water seepagc or absorption into
the huoy. Supplied with fittings,
the buoy is designed to accept a
sixteen-pound rigidly mounted
counter-weight, and an anchor of about forty pounds. Avail-
ahle in either two- or three-piece versions. For further in-
formation, circle #101.

 

«- Be a maintenance magician. You can turn browned-out
grass and foliage to a healthy green with a turf colorant
which is sprayed onto lawns and shrubbery. Fall and early
spring are the usual application seasons for tinting, although
summer lawns are often sprayed to correct drought, disease,
and animal damage. The colorant was proved to be durable
and harmless to growing grass, without ill effects on children
and animals. A variety of equipment and application tech-
niques may he employed—hand Sprayer, powered boom
sprayers, or conventional weed spraying equipment is ap-
plicahle. One gallon of colorant with eight to ten gallons
of water is usually sufficient to cover three thousand square
feet. For further information circle #102.

0 Do monotonous chainlink fences give a dreary look
around your areas and facilities? Add a flowery touch of
color with a device which makes it possible to attach flower-
pots to chainlink fences. The device resembles a horseshoe,
is painted black. It comes in various diameters—three, four.

472

MARKET NEWS

five, and six inch. Can be used to flank gateways or at ran-
dom intervals to provide decoration for fences around com-
munity centers, schools, hOSpitals, parks, and other munici-
pal facilities. For further information, circle #103.

0 Park department rowboats have to take quite a heating.
The New York City Department of Parks has selected alumi-
num boats for its rental concession at Brooklyn’s Prospect

 

The oarsrnan is New Y or}: Paris Conunissioner Newboltl
Morris.

Park Lakc. The boats are thirtcen and a half feet long and
weigh 175 pounds. For further information, circlc #104.

o A fihrous, fillcd, asphalt mastic solves thc problcms causcd
by spiked shoes on concretc. “Crasstex” is the same material
used in the construction of all-wcather tracks and runways
for track and field events. In this type of service, it has heen
used for years without serious deterioration. For further
information, circle #105.

0 It’s a long, funny story—but if you’re interested in cos-
tumes, flags, or convention banners, read on! In 1919 thcre
was a big pigeon coop in Collegcville, Pcnnsylvania, and
one day sonic people shooed the pigeons out and set up a flag
factory in it. The flag business was a thriving one, and soon
the company found itself with bags of scrap materials. So
what? So it made costumes, of coursc, mostly for Halloween,
but sometimes for Christmas: sometimes sticking in a few
wigs and masks and acccssories. So, if you are looking for
United States flags, accessories, costumcs, or convention ban-
ners, send up a carrier pigeon or circle #106.

o A fountaisian world. The play of light and water through
fountains in puhlic gardens and parks creates a fantasy of
pattern and movement. A California company creates a com-
pletc fountain design, utilizing (when desired) custom sculp-
turing, water patterns, pumps. valves and timing deviccs,
and fountain accessories. Duplications of natural stone wa-
terfalls cascade waters from one rock ledge to another, pro-
ducing soothing echoes. Exceptionally tasteful wall foun-
tains, pedestal planters, reflecting pools, and unusual, lovely
decorative accessories are also descrihed in the company’s
catalogue. For copy, circle #107.

RECREATION

 

Page
limerican Playground Device  477
Association Press ... ___...__---   446
Brunswick Sports    _ - 438
Burgess Publishing _..._ . 481
Carabo-Cone __--_---_._ ..  471
Castello Fencing & Judo _ ..... -- 477
Chicago RollerSkating   _ -- 43S
Classified Advertising -__  _ __ _. 482
Creative Crafts ........ -- -.__  480
Dutch Maid _-_.__-.___.._-_ -_ "a..- .  _ 431

Emblem and Badge   lnside Front Cover

Gold Medal  470
Handweaver and Craftsman _..-. 476
Honda Associates _- . ___... _ 433
Mason Candies- _ _ 454
Monroe Company _-.. 469
National Studios --_._ 471
1963 Round-The-World-Tour .-._ 434
Porter Sargent __-_____q_.___._..-_-_.__ ......___. 433

Sico Products  __  -._.. lnside Front Cover

Stagecrafl ____ ___.   __.._.-___- 480
Superior lndustries ..H_____.-   -m- 480
Toilaflex ..................... -_ lnside Front Cover
Village Recreation Service -_...._.---._.__ 471
Vogel-Peterson E-_-..--_-..-_--___--....__- _ 476
Ward & Co. _.._..__---_____-__..-_-_..._._.__...._ 469
Wolverine Sports ..-_-___-- m.-. .....--..--___-__- 433
World Wide Games .._-_._....-___--_------..._-_.. 373

..   n u .r umuuumuumnnuuuummun

 

| NOVEMBER, 1962

®

FREE AIDS

TRADE MART

 

Here are catalogues, brochures, films, booklets, services available,
samples, and so on to help the recreation leader. Circle on the con-
pon the number of any item about which you. want more in formation.

41215 All!) CRAFTS

MARBLEOUS CRAFT MATERIAL contains seventy-
two percent finely pulverized marble which,
combined with other white materials, makes it
the whitest of whites. Can be used for free-
form (and not so free) sculptures and other
craft projects. It is clean and stainless, re-
mains plastic indefinitely so that it can be used
over and over again. It shapes and molds eas-
ily, will not dry out and flake as many mate-
rials do. For further information, circle #120.

TOOLS, METALS, FINDINGS for workers in silver-
smithing and jewelrymaking. Crafts company
offers soldering equipment, polishing com-
pounds, plating tools, chasing and matting
tools, hardwoods for combining with metal
jewelry. Also included is an enameling cata-
logue and a list of supplies and tools for work-

ing with stained glass. For further informa-
tion,circle #121.

CLAYS OF ALL COLORS and firing ranges lend
themselves to various aspects of the potter’s
craft. Glazes, frits, gold and platinum lusters
for glass and china. glass colors for decorating
glass, tableware, vases, lampshades, cigarette
boxes, etc. are some of the items included in
catalogue of ceramic supplies. For further in-
formation, circle #122.

PLASTIC LACINoS FOR ARTS AND CRAFTS come in
more than twenty different colors or two-tone
combinations Braidette or cordette comes in

gold or silver. For leaflet containing samples,
circle #123.

CAsT IN THE RIGHT MOLD. Here are molds for
planters, dishes, figurines, tumblers, jugs, etc.
Company also offers Pennsylvania Dutch de-
signs for greenware, sgrafiito knives for drill-
ing wire and pipe holes in greenware, pcarl-

escent and other glazes. For catalogue of cc-
ramic supplies, circle #124.

G001) TIFS. Metal tips attach to end of laces,
can be applied quickly with special pliers.
They are disposable. Leathcrcraft is more en-
joyable than ever when you don’t have to
spend time looking for lacing needles that slip
off. For free sample of lacing with needle,

circle #125.
AUDIO VISUAI.

INTERNATIONAL INTEREST. Films on Japanese
manners and customs can be used to theme
international program material. Fine-arts films
on Japanese arts also available . . . sculpture,
pottery, ceramics, the art of the swordsmith,
architecture, music, dance, floral arts. For
catalogue crammed with descriptions of 16MM

sound films, circle #126.

THE WATER’S FINE. Films of the water world,
boat coustruction, cruising and camping, fish-
ing, lifesaving and swimming, navigation and
weather, racing, safety and maintenance, sail-
ing, water sports are some of the categories
available. For catalogue, circle #127.

ENCHANTING FILMS FROM JAPAN will delight
both nature club members and people who
are entranced with the natural world. Life of
the Water Birds, A Study of Snow Crystals,
Community Life of the Ant, Life of the Hunter
Bee, The Praying Mantis and other nature
films are available. For further information,

circle # 128.

THE NOCTURNAL WORLD OF NATURE blooms and
chirps. A film, A Night Out With Mr. Toad,
presents closeup studies of bugs, snails, moths,
millipedes, with background of flowers clos-
ing, sunset, twilight, rising of the moon, forma-

PLEASE NOTE EXPIRATION DATE

100 101 102 103 104 105 108 107
117 118 119 120 121 122 123 124
134 135 138 137 138 139 140 141

Clip and mall today. to
RECREATION Magazine. Dept. R962. 8 W. 8th St.. New York 11

This coupon expires January 1. 1963
Please send me more information on circled products.

 

108 109 110 111 112 113 114 115 118
125 128 127 128 129 130 131 132 133
142 143 144 145 148 147 148 149 150

 

 

 

Name Title
Organization
Address City Zone State
3962

473

tion of dew, and growth of mushrooms. The

film makes use of time-lapse photography to
show the c10sing of flowers, the forming of

dew, and mushrooms growing. Other films in.
clude one on the black widow spider and one
on how nature controls insect pests. For fur-
ther information, circle #129.

FILMS or THE WORLD ouvoooas range from
camera hunting to fishing and hunting in
various parts of the Northern Hemisphere. For

list, eil‘ele #130.

Tasssuar: now. Looking through this film
catalogue is like opening a wealthy dowager’s
jewel box. Here's an exciting collection of
art, recreation, craft, drama, danec and thea-
ter, music, science, and world and community
affairs films, in addition to a selection of shorts
hy the extremely talented Canadian film artist
Norman McLaren. For copy, circle #131.

Ox TRACK. The Wonderful World of Trains
contbiues fantasy and realism. replete with
puppets and model trains. “Professor Hotbox"
and “Algernon Caboose” help lead a small boy
through a dream world of adventure in which
train wrecks are avoided just at the nick of
time. Another film on trains and one on the
high spots and excitement of New York, the
world’s biggest city, are available. among
others. For further information, circle #132.

EQUIPMENT

KEEP FAMILY CAMPERS and pienickers posted.
Good-looking barbecue equipment includes
rotary accessories, skewers, broilers, kebabers,
portable stoves (campers, take note), fire
starters, and other outdoor cooking equipment.
For catalogue, circle # 133.

FREE cousuntae SERVICE to assist mainte-
nance departments in solving difiicult ice and
snow removal problems has been announced
by a manufacturer of de-icing equipment. The
company offers facilities for testing and “trial
runs” under practically all conditions-—cx-
treme temperature variations, different meth-
ods of application, protection of concretc,
asphalt, interior floors and various floor cover~
ings, and special conditions requiring mix-
tures with sand, slag, salt, etcetera. For further
information, circle #134.

STIR UP an interesting potpourri of tennis,
handball, Ping-pong, and badminton and you

cook up a sport called aerial tennis. Wooden
paddles and a birdie are used in this indoor-

outdoor game. In an illustrated leaflet, the

manufacturer gives rules of the game and de-
scribes equipment. For copy, circle #135.

ENGINEERED EXCELLENCE for your swimming
pool. Filters of various types—stainless steel
spin filters, bronze spin filters, pressure tube
type filters, “diatom” filters—and conunercial
deck equipment are attractively presented in
this company’s literature. For your c0py, cir-

cle # 136.

WHO WE ARE. Your athletic teams and clubs
of all varieties will like the special identifica-
tion that emblems afford. Catalogue contains
illustrated descriptions of spanking bright
jackets and sweatshirts, caps, etnblems and
stuffed mascots. Also fluorescent caps, mittens,
arntbands, and diekeys will be of interest to
campers, cyclists and construction workers.
For c0py, circle #137.

TRAPPED! Have a heart when trapping ani-
mals and birds for nature study. This cont-
pany’s traps come highly recommended by en-
thusiastic users all over the country. It makes
traps for practically any use you can conceive.
Booklet contains general instructions on how
to use traps and what bait has proven to be
best for trapping variOus animals. (Be aware
of your state’s trapping laws. They may affect
your cateh.) For further information. circle

#138.

Gum-:5 THROUGH THE warm with the greatest
of ease. Dry additive to boat paint cuts down
markedly on water friction. Contains no pe-
troleum products. Mixed with paint or var-
nish, it will brush smoothly on. After the coat
has dried, the painted surface becomes Slip-
pet-y. The moment the boat is put into water,
this lubrication increases boat speed, saves
gas. For further information, circle #140.

SPRAY AWAY ATuLETa's roor. A skin-toughen-
ing solution treats and prevents this fungus
trouble. Six-onnec spray bottles give team
members or swimmers personal protection. 1’0
eapital investment necessary for purchase of
foot-sprayers or footmats. Squeeze bottles are
refillable from gallon containers at bulk prices.
For further information, circle #141.

Sxmxs! A multipurpose boat, the sea snark
weighs less than thirty pounds. Can be stored
upright in twelve inches of floor space, needs
no painting or preservatives. The boat is
molded in one piece of expanded Polystyrene.
Put a sail on it, paddle it, fish from it, swim
from it. For further iufromation, circle #142.

IOIN and USE
ALL

National Recreation Association services

RECREATION Magazine is only one of many benefits the National Recreation Assceia-
tion offers its service affiliates and associates. For more than fifty years, professional
specialists on the NRA staff have served the recreation field through the Association's
many departments, with on—the-spot advice, through correspondence and consultation,
with program information, at annual district conferences, and at National Recreation

Congresses.

The NRA is your service agency. Know it and use it.

For complete information on
including insurance plans, person-

nel services, planning service, and book center. circle #150 on coupon on reverse aide.

 

4.74

[OW-COST AIDS

Order these resources and references di-
rectly from source given ( en close remittance).

VALUABLE ANALYSIS. Guides to Baseball Um-
piring, a sixty-five page, softbound book covers
the fundamental principles, practical applica-
tion, and sound philos0phy of athletic officiat-
ing: attitudes, opinions, and feelings of
coaches and officials for one another; officiat-
ing as a vocation and avocation; stances and
positions; ejecting players from the game;
cartoons, examinations and knotty problems.
Available for $1.00 from the Instructional Cen-
ter, 222 Kearny Avenue, Perth Amboy, New
Jersey.

FREE LURE. Tbree beautiful, illustrated, and
photo~packed booklets are available from Phil-
lips Petroleum Company: Camping by Car
and Boat; Guide to Your National Forests,
Parks, Monuments and Historic Sites; and
Your Mission 66 and the National Parks: A
Passport to Adventure. The first-mentioned
booklet contains chapters on family camping,
equipment. cross-country camping, coaches,
trailers, wagons and tents, camping abroad,
etcetera. The second contains maps showing
the locations of national parks and listings of
parks and their addresses. The third booklet
gives some historical background on national
parks and Mission 66. All are available free
from the Public Relations Department, Phil-
lips Petroleum Company, Bartlesville, Okla-
honta.

llmmcseesn PATTERN. A very interesting
study and report on the problems concerned
with reaching and integrating handicapped
children into normal community recreation
programs has been issued by the Associated
YM-YWHAS of Greater New York. In Social
and Recreational Patterns of Orthopedieally
Handicapped Children, Arthur Schwartz finds
the major problems are locating recreation
facilities, transportation, and parent~child
tensions. Most of the handicapped children
are able to negotiate the steps to get to the
second floor of the center. It was also dis-
covered that many of the siblings of the handi-
capped children were not being served in com-
niunity centers.

During the first seven months of the study
over twenty orth0pedically handicapped chil-
dren were absorbed into groups of nonhandi-
capped children. They participated in the full
range of center activities from club groups and
special interest activities to trips, athletics,
and mass activities. Their dropout rate was
significantly below that of the nonbandicapped
members of the center. The forty-eight page
report is available for $1.25 from the Associ-
ated YM-YWllAs, 33 West 60th Street, New
York 32.—-.’lforton Thompson.

CAMPIXC Passcatp'rtox. A thirty-one page
booklet, Camping for Emotionally Disturbed
Boys, describes various kinds of camps; the
value of camp setting as therapy; identifying,
screening, and selecting campers; staff; guid-
ance; followup; and research. Available for

3.75 from the American Camping Association,
Bradford Woods, Martinsville, Indiana.

RECREATION

   

Down on the Farm

The Immanuel Baptist Church in Lex-
ington, Kentucky, recently acquired a
twenty-two-acre site for the construction
of its new church plant. On the pr0p-
erty there was a well-built, empty barn.
The young people of the church under
the leadership of the associate pastor de-
cided to turn the barn into a recreation
center. Where cattle stalls and cobwebs
had been, there were youngsters and fa-
thers sweeping, hammering, and saw-
ing. Many members of the congrega-
tion donated furnishings.

The hayloft floor was rejuvenated
with a layer of linoleum; a walkway
bridge was built across the barn so that
youngsters could walk from one hayloft
to another. In one loft, a TV room and
Ping-pong room were set up, while in
the other a restaurant and gameroom
were laid out. The barn was painted
blue, yellow and flamingo pink. Picnic
tables were built from lumber salvaged
from the stalls and doors, a stone floor
was laid, water and electricity brought
in. A basketball goal was placed at one
end of the barn; at the other an indoor
volleyball court was constructed.

Harvest Picnic

Recreation activities, typical of those
cnjoyed down on the farm, were fea-
tured at the Senior Citizens’ Harvest
Time Picnic recently conducted for sen-
iors of San Gabriel Valley, California,
at Arcadia County Park. The Arcadia
City Recreation Department and the
County of Los Angeles Department of
Parks and Recreation were joint co-
sponsors of the picnic.

Prizes were awarded for such com-
petitive cvents as: ladies’ (over 60)
hfty-yard walking race; men’s (over
65) walking race, fifty yards; potato-
tossing contest for men; egg-carrying
contest for women; water-carrying c011-
test for men and women; kicking shoe
off the farthest, for women; oldest man

NOVEMBER, 1962

present; oldest woman present; most
living grandchildrcn; best costume de-
picting harvest time. I

No Deadbeats

Youngsters who would otherwise put
thumbs down on organized recreation
can be drawn into the total program if
an activity they’re interested in takes
them away from the street corner to the
recreation center and settlement house.
On New York City’s Lower East Side,
the Educational Alliance, a seventy-
year-old settlement house, began a steel-
drum band about two years ago. Now,

 

there are at least twelve bands at the
agency. The first group consisted of
nine teenagers. They appeared on TV
and, less than a year after they began
syncopating, decided to drop their ama-
teur standing and join the Musician’s
Union. The other bands grew rapidly af-
ter the success of this first. About eight
to ten youngsters belong to each group;
they range in age from eleven to eight-
een. The teenagers in these groups are
normally friends; they didn’t band to-
gether because of any special musical
interest. They’re part of Operation
Street Corner and the steel-drum bands
they belong to are viewed as very im-
portant in juvenile delinquency preven-
tion.

Steel drums originate in the West In-
dies. Made from metal containers used
for shipping liquids, they must be cut
down for range and the heads ham-
mered down to produce various notes.
An exchange student, Rupert Sterling,

NOTEBOOK

from Antigua, British West Indies.
teaches bands and makes the drums.
He was a leading member of one of the
best steel-drum bands in his
home.

island

Looseleaf Organization

Robert Ledger, Bris‘tol, New Hamp-
shire, recreation director, furnishes
members of his advisory council with
their own personal looseleaf notebooks
containing the following information:
names of council members, terms of of-
lice and committee assignments, dates
of meetings and special events for en-
suing year, council constitution and by-
laws, receipts and expenditures for
previous year, budget for current year,
resume of insurance coverage, agree-
ments governing use of all areas, and
New Hampshire law governing public
recreation programs. Council members
reccive written minutes of all meetings
which they are urged to place in their
notebooks.

Two New Hampshire directors con-
duct an annual tour of all recreation
areas for city council members. Mem-
bers ask questions, make suggestions
and become better acquainted with
areas and facilities under the supervi-

sion of the recreation director.

Party Students

Students in Dr. E. A. Scholcr’s class

in social recreation at the State Univer-
sity of Iowa are no wallliowers when it
comes to giving parties. Part of thcir
classroom assignment is party planning
from invitations right on down. The
invitations themselves are lots of fun
. . . a crepe-paper mitten holding a card
invites you to a sliding party; the doors
and loft windows of a red barn an-
nounce a square dance party; a paper
canoe holds a wooden icc crealn spoon
(they resemble oars) with the invita-

475

 

. Portable
Hat and Coat Racks

These multi-purpose wardrobe. racks .go
wherever needed or store away like foldlng
chairs when not in use. They come in 3 ft.
or 4 ft. lengths. have two hat shelves and
1 or 2 full length hanger bars for coat
hangers or coat hooks. (Two sided hooks
snap over and straddle the bar. see detail).
Standard units come on glides or casters;
stand rigidly under a full load. CHECKER-
ETTES are also available in two sided units
(double capacity): add-on units for making
long continuous racks. and matching wall
mount units.

Write for Catalog.

VOGEL-PETERSON C0.
'. i2? West 37th Street 0 Chicago 9, "lino...

 

The quarterly magazine with new
weaving ideas in each issue

A complete file of back issues will give you
a valuable weaving library

Write {or brochure
and prices of back issues

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

1 yr.  $5 2 yrs ........... -. $9
3 yrs .............. -_$‘l2

Pan-American 8: Foreign rates $1 a year
extra. Single copies $1.35

Handweaver 8. Craftsman
246 FIFTH AVENUE NEW YORK ‘l

476

tion to a boating party written on it; a
paper paintbrush whose handle insists
“your hand will fit” announces a paint-
ing party. The class planned a New
Year’s Eve backward party for ten-
to twelve-year-olds. Everything had a
touch of unreality. The decorations
were mainly of the four seasons, one
season in each corner. The seasons were
a bit confused, however: winter had a
background of waterskiers Heating over
snow drifts; summer had an ocean with
snowmen and Christmas trees on the
beach. The social recreation class dem-
onstrated the party. They were given
newspaper and some paperclips and told
to make their own creative costumes for
a masquerade. They played “My Hat,
It Has Three Corners”-—singing the
words backwards. The group played
active and quiet games—newspaper re-
lays, quick whistle relay, reverse soccer
relay (played walking backwards kick-
ing a balloon), and shouting proverhs.
The class also planned a Mad Party
which was just that.

Clean Water

A drop in the bucket may be one too
many when an area is stricken with a
water shortage. Where water pollution
clouds and befouls past or potential
recreation areas, residents welcome the
sight of clean water. By working to-
gether, industry and conservation
groups can begin to eliminate the prob-
lems which arise from water shortage
and pollution. An exciting break-
through in these problems developed
with a six-tank water reclaiming unit
which recirculates, filters, purifies and
clarifies a basic reservoir of water.
Units have been developed for laundro-
mats and car-wash installations. Mod-
ern detergents used in industry of this
sort pose a major problem in water pol-
lution. They contain alkyl henzcnc sul-
fonates which cannot be removed by
sewage disposal plants. As a result, huge
quantities of detergent chemicals are be-
ing discharged into America’s lakes,
streams, and other water resources. The
manufacturer, Niagara Systems Com-
pany of Buffalo, New York, anticipates
a vast potential for manufacturing in-
dustries and for commercial and home
use where large volumes of water and
detergents are used. The unit can be
constructed to any specifications, mak-

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

ing it possible for large industry to make
use of it. Other applications include
military installations in remote areas,
use on naval vessels, in arid regions of
the world, in underdeveloped countries,
and in the many areas of the United
States which lack sewer systems.

Dropouts

A new program for school dropouts
begun in New York City by the Police
Athletic League combines counseling,
remedial reading, arithmetic, psycho-
logical testing, together with paid work
experience. After graduation from the
program, the youngster will be referred
to PAL’s' placement service. The youth
service is financed by the New York
State Division for Youth through a con-
tract with the New York City Youth
Board and by PAL funds.

p

No Strings

ls puppetry as a folk art dying? Mel-
vyn Helstien, assistant professor of thea-
ter arts at the University of California
at Los Angeles, thinks it is. The reasons
for this decline in China, the East In-
dies, and Turkey may be the competition
from mechanized entertainment or per-
haps from the attraction of better pay-
ing occupations. (Puppeteers are tra-
ditionally poor.)

Information Please

The International Sports Exhibition
to be held in Dortmund, West Germany,
on April 19-28, 1962, will have indoor
and outdoor space available for an ex-
tensive sports program exhibit. A turn-
out of 250,000-400,000 is expected. An
exhibit of sports buildings and pools is
planned. The Sports Field Advisory
Board would appreciate receiving in-
formation from any departments in the
United States who have scale models
and large photo prints of sports build-
ings and pools. The board would like
to make arrangements to borrow these
items from those who can make them
available. For further correspondence,
address the Ucbungsstaettcn-Bera-
tungsstelle des Deutschen Sportbundcs,
Zentrale Beratungsstelle fuer den Kom-
munalen Sportsstaettenbau, 5 Koeln-
Muengersdorf, West Germany.

RECREATION

Morale Builders

A float entered in the local Christmas
parade last year by the Roanoke, Vir-
ginia, Department of Parks and Recrea-
tion came off with first-place honors.

 

Everyone in the department helped with
the project which was titled “Santa’s
Mail Box and Helpers.” Secretaries and
supervisors wore bright red outfits and
rode the float. Maintenance men built
the igloo and sled. The float was a
kickoff for Santa’s Mail Box. Children
mailed their letters with telephone
number included to Santa, North Pole.
The department had Santa call each
child. A local TV station contributed
time to the venture. Department per-
sonnel got a big kick out of helping
Santa that Christmas.

Come Home Alas

Each year the Pennsylvania Depart-
ment of Commerce receives about fifty
thousand requests from children, re-
questing information. Have a peek at
the correspondence: “We Spent two
weks in Pensylvania this summer. We
swam and saw Niagr Falls. I saw 18
dears and a gray bear but I had to come
home alas.’:‘ ‘

“I have a cat. He had his tail cut off.
He has three legs. His name is Benja-
min Franklin because he is shaped like
the state of Pennsylvania. We are going

to Hairsburg next spring. Is it big?
Thank you.”

Training Church Leaders
The Dade County, Florida, Parks and

Recreation Department recently COD]-
pleted its third annual series of recrea-
tion workshops for leaders of church-
centered programs. The Greater Miami
Council of Churches cooperates with
the department through the mailing of
workshop notices to churches in the

NOVEMBER, 1962

area. Staff members of the recreation
division coordinate the program in two
districts of the county. This year 137
people involved in some phase of church
activity participated; total attendance
amounted to 189.

Vandalism in NYC Parks

Vandalism in New York City parks
cost the city $375,000 last year. Park
structures have, in many cases, been
completely destroyed by fires started by
vandals. Damage to trees, shrubs, and
benches, while individually less costly,
adds up to a large portion of the total
cost of the vandalism damage.

STATE SOCIETY NEWS

OHIO

The Ohio Recreation Association will
hold its annual conference in Spring-
field, Ohio, on November 7-9. Over 250
park and recreation department person-
nel are expected to attend. The three-
day conference will feature meetings
and panel sessions on facilities and pro-

grams, plus tours, exhibits, and enter-
tainment.

ONTARIO

The Society of Directors of Municipal
Recreation of Ontario, Canada, will
hold its sixth training institute along
with the society’s sixteenth annual
meeting on November 10. Theme of the
training sessions will be “Recreation
in Community Planning.” A manual of
Definitions and Standards for Parks
and Recreation Facilities will be pre-
sented for discussion at the institute in
Peterborough.

 

IN MEMORIAM

 

o HUGH COMER, board chairman of
Avondale Mills and a member of the
Boy Scouts National Executive Board
since 1950, died recently in Birming-
ham, Alabama, at the age of seventy.
Mr. Comer received several of scout-
ing’s highest awards for service to boy-
hood. He was president of the Scout’s
Choccolocco Council at Anniston, Ala-
bama. He was a past vice-president of
the National Association of Manufac—
turers and had been active in the Ameri-

can Red Cross, the Crippled Childrens

Association, and the Community Chest.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

Only, The Best
EQUIPMENT
ls Goad Enough

 

AMERICAN
VAPPROVED“

PARK and PICNIC.
P LAYG R0 U N D

AND SWIMMING
POOL EQUIPMENT

The wise choice of experienced
buyers for more than half a century.
Write for comprehe nsive literature.

AMERICAN

PLAYGROUND DEVICE CO.
ANDERSON, INDIANA, U. S. A.

WORLO'S LARGEST MANUFACTURERS OF FINE
PARK. PICNIC. PLAYGROUNO. SWIMMING
POOL AND DRESSING ROOM EOUIIPMENT

- Low Cost/Growing
Sport Programs for
Both Men and Women

PM

For club, class or team. Requires
minimum space and equment.‘
Exciting and practical for few or
many participants. National and
International assoc1atlons.
Castello produces championship
equipment and specnally deSIgned
equipment for class use. All
modestly priced.

JUDO and KARATE T00!

Kodokan approved uniforms spe-
cially designed for the taller
American figure.

Write for Free Catalogs

CASTELLO

FENCING/Juno 8. KARATE EQUIPMENT
30 E. 10th St... N. Y. 3. N. Y. since 1914

 

477

"var-an Values in Recreation
Continued from Page 443

W
is. a play can be such an organic whole; too

. v . . T, we start with tryouts, select our showoffs and
r v. _a -md leaw out the slow and the sensitive—the
] - 1  vh- nmad the experience more than the others. We
llwn l} precast our actors: The most popular girl becomes the
ingcnuc: the plain one becomes the old maid aunt; the shy
ho) is the shy boy. The results can be tragic.

Another common blunder is to choose as a director a per-
son who may or may not know anything about the theater
but who knows nothing about people and what is happening
to them during rehearsals. Such a director then directs: he
tells the actors where to go, how to stand, how to read lines,
what gestures to make—thus eliminating any chance for the
actors’ creative interaction. This type of rehearsal only
drives deeper existing attitudes and behaviors. But a play
that is picked to suit the people who want to be in it; is cast
enough against type, so that everyone gets a chance to be
someone other than himself; and is worked out by the group
(with someone sitting as audience representative) so that the
play will be effective to the larger group that sees it—such
a play can be a powerful tool for building sound social
patterns. '

In creative dramatics, there is constant interplay among
the actors, the director, and the audience. One cannot, as in
real life, take a vacation from total involvement and partici-
pation; the very nature of the medium forbids it, for indi-
vidual fulfillment depends on the group's success. That suc-

cess, that potential masterpiece of creation, draws the group
together, and inspires and nourishes each member.

A successful dramatic performance moves and involves
the audience; each living part of a theatrical canvas supports
every other living part in balance and harmony; the whole
becomes greater than the sum of its parts. The audience gets
a sense of natural organic reality, and is emotionally in-
volved because the action on stage is purposive, meaningful,
authentic, condensed.

Not every amateur play answers this lyrical description;
not every dance group provides a joyful experience for some-
one other than the “expert.” To put on a play, to dance, to
sing, to do metal work, does not guarantee that we will
achieve what we’re working for. Much depends on the lead-
ership and the kind of understanding that it brings to the

. . :‘éf-f‘t"...
act1v1ty. 4%;

Good leaders do not grow on trees; they are seldom “na-
turals”; they must be trained. Fortunately, more and more
colleges are offering curriculums and courses in recreation
and every year sees additional workshops, institutes, and
training sessions (both formal and informal) in this vital
area. The general public is becoming more and more aware
of the value of leisure-time activities and increasingly is de-
manding more areas, facilities, and program activities and is
expecting a high standard in leadership and administration.

Recreation is a living tool with which we can mold human
values. To do this, we select our materials carefully, and
train the kind of leadership we want. But recreation has per-
haps a more important aspect: to put it simply, recreation

is fun! #

 

The Church and Recreation
Continued from Page 455

 

in a given period of time. Its raison d’etrc is to be a spiritual
force. If it expends its energies in tangent enterprises, it will
have little resource left to spend on behalf of this spiritual
purpose. The void which is created by a malfunctioning
religious hody will not be suitably met by the recreation de-
partment or the YMCA or the rod-and-gun club of the com-
munity. The churches and synagogues of America, must, of
necessity, first be themselves.

The result of this mutual cooperation will be an integrated
program of community recreation. Recreation will not be
abandoned by the church. To the contrary, the church will
continue to find more creative uses for recreation and fur-
ther enhance its own attraction, especially to youth; likewise
the public sector will not expand its program to the detri-
ment of private recreation agencies; rather, they will work
together that each can provide some recreation service the
others cannot. There is no one set amount of recreation to
be divided equally among interested parties. It will take the
maximum effort of all groups to provide enough varied rec-
reation experiences for our people, but emphasis falls par-
ticularly on the specialized community agencies whose pro-
gram is devoted exclusively to recreation.

478

The church does not serve a total community directly,
but it is interested deeply in the total community, even those

who do not come wilhin its walls. It can bc morc assured
that a need of real importance is being met if there are insti-
tutions concentrating on its solution. The larger aims of
religious bodies can thus be fulfillcd and their societal rc-
sponsibilitics met through other groups. The church, its
clergy and laity can provide the impetus for an adequate
answer to the need for leadership, funds, facilities, and un-
derstanding which comprise a sound recreation program.

The church and other institutions in the community have
grown in the manner of people. At their conception they

were dependent on others; independent in thcir adolesccncc
as they attempted to exist on their own and be everything

to everyone. They must now conceive of growing to the
maturity of interdependence where useful cooperation fos-

ters effective service.

The philosophy of recreation is consonant with thc pur-
poses of religious institutions. They can be joint laborers

in community endeavor and helpful to one another. From
their realization that they each perform a unique function

can come a more efficient expenditure of the efforts of both.
This will allow the church to be the church, to find a new

success in its own rediscovery of a “constancy to purpose.”#

RECREATION

 

Preparation for Art, June King Mc-

Fee. Wadsworth Publishing Company, -

Belmont, California. Pp. 341. $9.00.

This book. although written for the
classroom teacher, is a must for any
teacher and prospective teacher (and
would be especially helpful for leaders
in recreation) who wishes to learn more
about the children they are guiding in
their experiences in art—in school, in
recreation, camps, centers, and homes
——-and creating situations that are con—
ducive to creativity.

It is written also for “the teacher who
is never through learning.” The au-
thor says. “Art is a form of language
necessary for the progrcss of humanity
and the maintenance of civilization . . .
we must understand the behavior of
children in art.”

This book should give recreation
leaders the opportunity to improve
their work with their children and ob-
tain a higher work standard. The chap-
ter on “The Creative Process” is espe-
cially informative and helpful. It is

highly recommended—Mary B. Cum-
nu'ngs.

Amphibians and Their Ways, H.
Rucker Smyth. Macmillan Company,
60 Fifth Avenue, New York ll. Pp.
292. $6.50.”

Did you ever see a Northern spring
peeper or Southern cricket frog? Surely
you have heard them both, especially
[be sweet peep, peep, peep of the former
which assures us that summer will soon
he here. This is a nontechnical account
of the private lives of these and others
of our neighbors in fields, woods, and
swamps—toads, salamanders, frogs,
and so on. The details of their court-
ships, mating, maturing, daily habits,
and so on are revealed in interesting
narratlve.

The author, with her husband and
young daughter, has done much per-
sonal observation and uncovered inter—
esting facts. She includes instructions
for others who likewise may be inter-
ested'in‘ doing some “watching.” This
is entertaining and informative reading
for nature lovers, especially those who

NOVEMBER, 1962

have a home in the country or for na-
ture or hiking groups in the recreation
center or in summer camp.

This Is Rhythm, Ella Jenkins. Oak
Publications, 12] West 47th Street,
New York 36. Pp. 96, illustrated. Spi-
ralbound, $2.95.

Recreation leaders who attended the
1959 National Recreation Congress in
Chicago will remember the demonstra-
tion and the evening program of folk
singing and rhythms by Ella Jenkins.
Her dynamic personality and charm are
not easily forgotten.

This book of hers is a child’s picture
book—not only for the delight of chil-
dren but of their parents and leaders. it
has large letters—for children with bad
eyesight—and bright red and blue pic-
tures to show just what and how.

Rhythm is fun. it is part of every-
one’s world. It’s easy. This book proves
It.

The Art of Flower Preservation,

Geneal Condon. Lane Book Company,
Menlo Park, California, Pp. 64, illus-
trated. Paper,$l.95.

Many readers are familiar with some
of the Sunset books, such as the Famzly
Camping Boo/c, “rings to Make for
Children, and many others. Those
readers will know that these inexpensive
Sunset books on gardening, hobby,
building, and travel are soit covered,
bound 101/2”-by-8” in size, and have
more than adequate illustrations. In
short, they are always bargains! .

This one is no exception. It is, of
course, a hobby book, but on a hobby
that is growing rapidly in popularity.
Preservation (not drying, please!) of

 

BOOK WEEK

.»

 

NOVEMBER ll-l7

flowers takes time and patience if the
results are to be usable and beautiful.

The author is an internationally
known specialist. She writes frankly
and clearly, and this hook is the basis
of the many classes in this art.

Fun with Next to Nothing, Wesley
F. Arnold and Wayne C. Cardy. Har-
per and Brothers, 49 East 33rd Street,
New York 16. Pp. 78, illustrated.
$2.75.

A principal of an elementary school
and a supervisor of elementary art have
combined forces in writing and illus-
trating this attractive book. It is really
a child’s book, but the projects in it are
the sort that playground and recreation
leaders find very useful. While projects
are improvised out of the simplest of
materials ——- boxes, cardboard, twigs,
pebbles, etcetera—they are constructive
and imaginative. A series, for example,
on shelters give instructions for making
miniature teepee, igloo, grass hut,
adobe house, log cabin, and tent.
Another series is a castle and village of
medieval times; still others on space
ships and moon base, transportation,
early man, Vikings, and ancient Rome.
Directions are simple and leave ample
opportunity for individual adaptation.

SCIENCE AND RECREATION

A bumper crop of books planned for
those who take their science activities
seriously or who are introducing groups
into some of the scientific mysteries of
nature has flowered through the spring
and summer of 1962. Many of them
are excellent.

DISCOVERING SCIENCE ON YOUR OWN,
Illa Podendorf. Children’s Press, Jack-
son Boulevard and Racine Avenue, Chi-
cago 7. Pp. 157, illustrated. $4.50. An
attractive collection of “simple, safe and
interesting activities which demonstrate
basic principles of science” which is il-
lustrated with line drawings. This is a
companion volume to 101 Science Ex-
periments. Each science discovery in the
book begins with a question: How are
crystals formed? How do they grow?
What is a geyser? How can the moon

479

Oldcial 35”): 50”
size. Model 250 —

°"" 72.00

Exciting action game that attracts players
of all ages! Folds easily in a jiffy and is
completely portable. Amazingly low priced.
Write for Superior Catalog No. 6752.

A Quality Product of the World's
Largest Pool Table Manufacturer:

SUPERIOR INDUSTRIES CORPORATION
520 Ooster Street, New York 59, N.Y.

 

your

knowledge
of all

crafts

 

Read

CREATIVE
CRAFTS

the new magazine
that explores the
best in contemporary
and historical crafts

SUBSCRIBE

6 issues yearly

$5.00

CREATIVE

CRAFTS

6015 Santa Monica Blvd.
Los Angeles 38, Calif.

480

 

block out the sun and so on? Illa Poden-
dorf teaches science to children at the
Laboratory School, University Of Chi-
cago. She says, “To discover for our-
selves is an exciting way to learn . . .”
She offers suggestions for the making of
such discoveries.

YOUNG PEOPLE’S SCIENCE ENCYCLO-
PEDIA, Childrens Press, Jackson
Boulevard and Racine Avenue, Chicago
7. Twenty volumes, $44.95. Devoted to
all physical and natural sciences, these
colorful volumes include a complete in-
dex, bibliography, and parents’ and
teachers’ study guide. Although planned
for school use, the set would make an
excellent addition to the library of a
recreation center or a science leader.

THE HOW AND WHY WONDER BOOK OF
SOUND, Martin L. Keen. Crosset & Dun-
lap, 1107 Broadway, New York 10. Pp.
48, illustrated. $1.00. Do you know
how to make a water-trombone? Or a
nail-piano? Or a guitar? All eXperi-
ments and investigating in this book il-
lustrate the basic ideas about sound.
This, like the other books in the “how
and why” series is a valuable and en-
tertaining source of information for
youngsters, parents, teachers, leaders.
Among other titles in this series are
Atomic Energy; Rocks and Minerals;
Electricity; Rockets and Missiles; Our
Earth; The Human Body; Birds; Rep-

tiles and Amphibians; Insects; Stars;

and Sea Shells.

EXPLORING SCIENCE FOR THE SPACE
AGE, Victor C. Smith. J. B. Lippincott
Company, East Washington Square,
Philadelphia 5. Pp. 422, illustrated.
$3.96. This is a beautiful book for this
price. Although planned as a text-book
for ninth grade or high-school students,
its fascinating text and suggested ex-
periments should provide interesting
reading and reference for youngsters
and adults alike. The author is specialist
in science education in Monmouth, Ore-
gon. A must for your science bookshelf.

HOW TO EXPLORE THE SECRET WORLD
OF NATURE, Vinson Brown. Little,
Brown & Company, 34 Beacon Street,
Boston 6. Pp. 170, illustrated. 33.50.
“What is a secret world? It is an area
of knowledge little known or penetrated
by man. It may hide within it all kinds
of marvelous surprises.” So writes Vin-
son Brown, explorer, naturalist, and
author, in this small book about house
spiders, owls, ants, pond water life, your
own backyard, city parks, fossils, and
so on, for the young naturalist. Inter-
esting whether you live in the city or
the country. Among other books by Mr.
Brown are The Amateur Naturalist’s
Handbook; How to Make a Home Na-

ture Museum; How to Understand A ni-

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

mal Talk; and How to Make a Minia-

ture Zoo.

FOSSILS, AN INTRODUCTION TO PRE-
HISTORIC LIFE, William H. Matthews
Ill. Barnes & Noble, 105 Fifth Avenue,
New York. Pp. 337, illustrated. $5.75
(paper, $2.25). Designed as an ama-
teur collector’s handbook, this deals
with the origin and preservation of fos-
sils, their collection, preparation, dis-
play, and a resume of geologic history,
paleontology, and evolution. Biblio-
graphy and other information sources
are included. The 180 illustrations in-

clude photographs, charts and line
drawings.

GEMSTONEs AND MINERALs—HOW AND
WHERE TO FIND THEM, John Sinkansas.
D. Van Nostrand Company, 120 Alex-
ander Street, Princeton, New Jersey.
Pp. 387, illustrated. $8.95. The prob-
lems facing the collector, and the infor-
mation that he needs about how and
why minerals form is included in this
excellent book which came out last year
but which we have not previously re-
viewed. Practical tips about a host of
subjects—from planning trips, tools
and equipment, to where to look, and
actual digging methods that are usually
learned only through experience—make
this an especially valuable book for
those who take their collecting serious-
ly. The photographs will help the
reader in recognizing terrain and the
rocks themselves.

THE BOOK OF TREES (revised), William
C. Grimm. Stackpole Company, Tele-
graph Press Building, Cameron & Kel-
ker Streets, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.
Pp. 407, illustrated. $10.00. What tree
is that? What is the favorite food of the
beaver? What is the difference between
the mid-western “buckeye” and the
common horse-chestnut tree, if any?
This is a beautiful reference book, il-
lustrated with excellent line drawings
for purposes of identification. This is
for the serious naturalist, campers, and
hikers, or anyone who loves trecs. It
furnishes a myriad of detail and an-
swers questions about our native and
more commonly known trees of the
United States. Mr. Grimm is also author

of The Book of Shrubs.

TURTLES, Lois and Louis Darling. Wil-
liam Morrow and Company, 425 Park
Avenue South, New York 16. Pp. 64,
illustrated. $2.75. This subject is dis-
cussed with enthusiasm and in lively
story form. The soft black-and-white
pictures were done by the authors—who
have also written Seals and Walruses,
Kangaroos, and Penguins, among other

books.

RECREATION

 

BOOKS & PAMPHLETS RECEIVED

 

Dance, Drama, Music

ACCORDION, TIIE, Carl Fortina. Holly-Pix Mu-
sic Publ., North Hollywood, Calif. Pp. 51.

$4.50.

AMATEUR TIIEATRECRAFT, Percy Corry. Pit-
man Publ., 2 W. 45th St., New York 36. Pp.
156. $3.95.

AMERICAN BALLET, THE, Olga Maynard. Mac-
rae Smith, 225 S. I5th St., Philadelphia 2.
Pp. 353. $7.50.

AMERICAN JAzz MASS FOR MIXED VOICES,
Frank P. Tirro. Summy-Birchard Co., 1834
Ridge Ave., Evanston, Ill. Pp. 24. Paper,
$1.25.

“ANYWHERE” SONGS, Paul Beckwith, Editor.
Inter-Varsity Press, 1519 N. Astor, Chicago
10, Unpaged (112 songs). Paper, $1.00.

ART OF HANDEELL RINGING, THE, Nancy Poore
Tufts. Abingdon Press, 201 8th Ave. 5.,
Nashville 3. Pp. 109. $3.00.

ART OF MUSIC, THE, Beekman C. Cannon, Al-
Vin H. Johnson and William J. Waite.
Thomas Crowell, 432 Park Ave. S., New
York 16. Pp. 484. $8.50.

BALLET BOOK, THE, Ginny Liriville Winter.
Ivan Oblensky, 219 E. 6lst St., New York
21. Pp. 47. $2.50.

BALLROOM DANCE RHYTIIMS, Alma and Israel
Heaton. Wm. C. Brown, 135 S. Locust St.,
Dubuque, Iowa. Pp. 197. Spiralbound, $3.50.

BASIC MOVEMENT, Marjorie Randall. Sport-
shelf, PO. Box 634, New Rochelle, N. Y.
Pp. I05. $3.00.

BASIC PRINCIPLES OF SINGING,William C. Rice.
Abingdon Press, 201 8th Ave. S., Nashville
3. Pp. 77. Paper, $1.25.

BAWDY SONGS AND BACKROOM BALLADS, Com-
piled by Oscar Brand. Grove Press, 64 Uni-
versity Pl., New York 3. Pp. 93. $6.95.

BOOK OF NONSENSE SONGS, A, Norman Caz-
den, Editor. Crown Publ., 419 Park Ave. S.,
New York 16. Pp. 106. $1.95.

DEvELOPING TEACHING SKILLS IN MUSIC, Rich-
ard H. Werder, Ed.D., Editor. Catholic
Univ. of Amer. Press, 620 Michigan Ave.
N.E., Washington I7, D. C. Pp. 126. Paper,
$2.00.

EVERYBODY’S GUIDE TO MUSIC, William Hugh
Miller, Chilton Co., 56th 81 Chestnut Sts.,
Philadelphia 39. Pp. 329. $7.50.

FOLK DANCES FOR ALL, Michael Herman.
Barnes 81 Noble, 105 5th Ave., New York 3.
Pp. 99. $2.50.

FOLK DANCING, Richard G. Kraus. Macmillan,
60 5th Ave., New York 11. Pp. 219. $5.95.

FOLK DANCE GUIDE, I961 (11th ed.), Paul
Schwartz, Editor. Paul Schwartz, Box 343,
CooDer Station, New York 3. Pp. 40. Paper,
$1.00.

FOLKSONGS FOR FUN, Oscar Brand, Editor.
Berkley Publ., 10I 5th Ave., New York 3.
Pp. 192. Paper, $.60.

FRED ASTAIRE DANCE BOOK, TIIE, Lyle Kenyon
Engel, Editor. Cornerstone Library, 630 5th
Ave., New York 20. Pp. 183. $4.95.

FUNDAMENTALS OF MOVEMENT, Anna Scott
Hoye. National Press, 850 Hansen Way,
Palo Alto, Calif. Pp. 57. Paper, $2.00.

INTRODUCTION TO FOLK MUSIC IN THE UNITED
STATES, AN, Bruno Nettl. Wayne State Univ.
Press, Detroit 2, Mich. Pp. I22. Paper,
$2.50.

INVITATION To MADRIGALS: I FOR SAB, Thur-
ston Dart. Galaxy Music Corp., 2121 Broad-
way, New York 23. Pp. 58. Paper, $.10.

NOVEMBER, 1962

INvITATION To MUSIC, Elie Sicgmeister. Har-
vey House, Irvington-on-Hudson, N. Y. Pp.
193. $4.95.

MODERN COMEDIES FOR TEEN-AGERS, Paul S.
McCoy. Plays, 8 Arlington St., Boston I6.
Pp. 382. $5.00.

MODERN MONOLOGUES FOR YOUNG PEOPLE,
John Murray. Plays, Inc., 8 Arlington St.,
Boston 16. Pp. 146. $3.95.

MORE SINGING FUN, Lucille F. Wood. Webster
Publishing Co., 1154 Reco St., St. Louis 26.
Pp. 77. $1.63.

MORE TRADITIONAL BALLADS OF VIRGINIA, Ar-
thur Kyle Davis, Jr.. Univ. of North Caro-
lina Press, Chapel Hill. Pp. 371. $7.50.

MUSIC CONSULTANT AT WORK, THE, Lorene
Marvel. Bureau of Publications, Teachers

College, ColuInhia University. 525 W. 120th
St., New York 27. Pp. 71. Paper, $I.75.

MUSIC DICTIONARY (Indexed). Ottenheimer
Publishers, Inc., 4805 Nelson Ave., Balti-
more 15. Pp. 186. $1.00.

MUSIC ESSENTIALS FOR CLASSROOM TEACHERS,
Robert Pace. Wadsworth Publ., 431 Clay
St., San Francisco 11. Pp. 116. Spiralbound,
$2.95.

MUSIC FOR THE MODERN DANCE, Pia Gilbert
and Aileene Lockhart. Wm. C. Brown, 135
S. Locust St., Dubuque, Iowa. Pp. 120. $4.50.

MUSIC FOR YOUNG AMERICANS, The ABC Mu-
sic Series—Book I, 3, 5, 81 7, Berg. Hooley,
Wolverton, and Burns. American Book Co.,
55 5th Ave., New York 3. Book 1—-—Pp. 198,
$5.20. Book 3—Pp. I99, $2.48. Book 5—
Pp. 208, $2.64. Book 7—Pp. 232, $3.32.

PLAYING THE PIANO FOR PLEASURE, Charles

Cooke. Simon and Schuster, 630 5th Ave.,
New York 20. Pp. 186. Paper, $1.45.

PLAYS ABOUT OUR NATION’S SONGS, Aileen
Fisher. Plays, Inc., 8 Arlington St., Boston
16. Pp. 188. $4.00.

PRELUDE TO BRASS PLAYING, Rafael Mendez.
Carl Fischer, 62 Cooper Sq., New York 3.
Pp. 123. $6.00.

PRIZE CONTEST PLAYS FOR YOUNG PEOPLE,
A. S. Burack, Editor. Plays Inc., 8 Arling-
ton St., Boston 16. Pp. 342. $5.00.

PUPPET AND PANTOMIME PLAYS, Vernon How-
ard. Sterling Publ., 419 Park Ave. S., New
York 16. Pp. 108. $2.50.

REPRINTS FROM THE PEOPLE’S SONGS BULLETIN
1946-1949. Oak Publications, I21 W. 47th
St., New York 36. Pp. 96. Paper, $1.95.

RHYTIIMIC ACTIvITIES, Series III, Frances R.
Stuart and Virginia L. Gibson. Burgess Pub-
lishing, 426 S. 6th St., Minneapolis 15. Port-
folio of 78 indexed cards, $2.50.

SCIENCE AND MUSIC FROM TOM-TOM TO HI-FI,
Melvin Berger and Frank Clark. McGraw-
Hill, 330 W. 42nd St., New York 36. Pp.
176. $3.75.

SING ALONG WITH MITCH. Bernard Geis Assoc.,
130 E. 56th St., New York 22. Pp. 117. $5.95.

SING FOR JOY, Norman and Margaret Mealy.
Seabury Press, 1 Fawcett Pl., Greenwich,
Conn. Pp. 138. $5.00.

SINGING SIXTIES, THE, Willard A. and Porter
W. Heaps. Univ. of Oklahoma Press, Nor-
man. Pp. 423. $8.95.

SO YOU WANT To BE A BALLET DANCER,
Thalia Mara. Pitman Publishing, 2 W. 45th
St., New York 36. Pp. 166. $3.95.

Storybooks

BUT CHARLIE WASN’T LISTENING, Tatiana Bal-
koft Drowne. Pantheon Books, 333 6th Ave.,
New York 14. Pp. 30. $3.25.

DAVY GOES PLACES, Lois Lenski. Henry Z.
Walck, 101 5th Ave., New York 3. Pp. 46.
$1.75.

DONALD DUCK TREASURY. Golden Press, 630
5th Ave., New York 20. Pp. 116. $1.95.
DRAGON WHO LIKED To SPIT FIRE, THE, Judy
Varga. Morrow 81 Co., 425 Park Ave. S.,

New York 16. Unpaged. $2.75.

GREEN FAIRY BOOK, THE, Andrew Lang, Edi-
tor. Random House, 457 Madison Ave., New
York 22. Pp. 470. $1.95.

GUARDS FOR MATT (basketball). Henry Z.
Walck, 101 5th Ave., New York 3. Pp. 64.
$2.75.

HANDFUL OF SURPRISES, A, Anne Heathers and
Esteban Frances. Harcourt, Brace, 750 3rd
Ave., New York 17. Unpaged. $2.95.

HOORAY FOR CHOCOLATE, Lucia and James L.
Hymes, Jr. William R. Scott, 8 W. 13th St.,
New York 11. Unpaged. $2.50.

 

revised editions due Winter 1962

RHYTHMIC ACTIVITIES.

Series I and II

Frances R. Stuart, Supervisor of Physical Education,

New York State Department of Education

John S. ludlom, Supervisor of Physical Education,

Moywaod, Illinois

In these revised editions, the recording listings have been brought up-to-date, new
dances and rhythms have been added and others deleted. They are designed as
useful guides for the teacher or recreation leader who is interested in providing
opportunities for children to have fun througb rhythm. The material is presented
in indexed wallet form. Each packet contains about 50 group folk dances on 4% x
5%” cards with simple musical scores by Earl Juhas. Series I is suitable for Kin-
dergarten through third grade and Series 11, third grade through sixth grade.

(I new book—just published

CONSERVATION FOR CAMP AND CLASSROOM

R. O. Bale, Program Director, Elmiro Neighborhood House,

Elmira, New York

This book is designed to show the teacher and the camp nature instructor how they
can lead young people through a well organized series of group and individual
activities designed to help them live conservation by making it a part of their
daily way of life. Its experiments and demonstration activities have as a basis
the teaching of an understanding of the relationships involved in nature, and the

place of man in these relationships.
order from

$3.00

BURGESS PUBLISHING COMPANY

426 South Sixth Street 0

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

Minneapolis 15, Minnesota

481

I: "t'NII Doc's BONE, Catherine Barr. Henry
*3 Wilck. 101 3th Axes New York 3. Pp.
.5. - 125.

I? ‘1 - I‘HAT J .tf‘R Bi u. I. THE. \IcGraw-Hill,
LEI W. 42nd ."~t_ \ew York 36. P1). 32.
s i {.

HORSE OF "Hr. SI . THE, Oriel Mallet. G. P.
Putnam and 5m —, 31C: \Iarlislln Ave., 36W
York 15. Pp. 235. $53.95.

.11- E\".uo0m DID, Jo \nn Stover. David Mc-
1\.13 119 W. 10th 3.1., New York 18. UH-
pagl d. 532.95. ,

JAcL l'flf. t‘rIaNT-MLLER, retold by Jean Lee
Iatham. Bobbs-Merrill, 1720 E. 38th St.,
Indianapolis 6. Unpaged. $1.95.

JOHNNY THI'. CLUCKMAKBH, Edward Ardizzone.
I-Ieury Z. Walck. 101 5th Ave., New York 3.
Unpaged. $3.00.

101411?le WITH GRANDMOTHER, THE, Edith Un-
nerstad. Macmillan CO., 60 5th Ave., New
York 11. Pp. 197. $3.00.

JUMBO, KING OF ELEPIIANTs, Edmund Lindop.
Little, Brown, 34 Beacon St., Boston 6. Pp.
30. $2.75.

KAI’ THE KAPPA, Betty Jean Lifton. Wm. Mor-
row, 425 Park Ave. S., New York 16. Un-
paged. $2.75.

LOOKING GLASS BOOK OE STORIES, THE, Hart
Day Leavitt, Editor. Random House, 457
Madison Ave., New York 22. Pp. 510. $1.50.

MAGIC JEWEL, THE, Roderich Thun. Viking
Press, 625 Madison Ave., New York 22. Pp.
47. $2.75.

MAGIC SEA SHELL, THE, Margaret J. Baker.
Holt, Rinehart 8: Winston, 383 Madison
Ave., New York 17. Pp. 122. $3.00.

MAN WHO WALKED AROUND THE WORLD, THE,
Benjamin Elkin. Childrens Press, Jackson
Blvd. 8: Racine Ave., Chicago 7. Pp. 29.
$2.50.

OLD MOTHER HUBBARD AND HER DOG, illus-
trated by Paul Galdone. Whittlescy llouse,
330 W. 42 St., New York 36. Pp. 32. $2.25.

ONE DAY AT THE ZOO, Dick Snyder. Charles
Scribner’s Sons, 597 5th Ave., New York 17.
Unpaged. $2.95.

OPEN HOUSE FOR BUTTERELIES, Ruth Krauss.
Harper 8: Brothers, 49 E. 33rd St., New
York 16. Unpaged. $1.50.

PANCAKES AND THE MERRY-GO ROUND, Emma
L. Brock. Alfred A. KnOpf, 501 Madison
Ave., New York 22. Pp. 77. $2.50.

PERFECT PANCAKE, Virginia KalIl. Scribner’s
Sons, 597 5th Ave., New York 17. Unpaged.
$2.75.

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING

RATES: Words in regular type $.15 each
Words in boldface type 8.25 each

DEADLINES: Copy must be received by
the fifth of the month preceding date of

Minimum ad accepted

$3.00

the issue in which ad is desired.

COPY: Type—or clearly print—your message and the address to which you wish
replies sent. Underline any words you want to appear In boldface type.

Send copy with remittance to:
RECREATION Classified Advertising, 8 West Eighth Street, New York II, New York.

HELP WANTED

Park Planner with com-
plete training in landscape
design and construction tO
conduct and execute coun-

ty-wide survey and master
plan, etcetcra. Salary Opcn.
Contact Paul R. Beistel,
Superintendent of Parks
and Recreation, Lane Coun-
ty - Courthouse, Eugene,
Oregon.

Director of Senior Cen-
ter. Master of Social Work
or Rccreation major with
group work experience pre-
ferred. Excellent hours,
benefits. Starts $5,700-
$7,300. Write, United Auto
Workers Retiree Centers,
8000 E. Jefferson, Detroit
14, Michigan.

Patient Programs Assist-
ant (Male or Female). Los
Angeles County, RanchO
Los Amigos Hospital,
Downey, California. Salary:
$432-$534. Civil Service
benefits. Responsible for
recruiting, training, and c0-
ordinating volunteers tO
provide diversional activi-
ties and personal services
for rehabilitation and con-

valcsccnt patients. College
graduation and one year’s
paid or unpaid experience
in a hospital volunteer pro-
gram or in a supervisory
capacity in recreation. One
additional year of experi-
encc may he substituted for
each year of college. Apply
Personnel Office, RanchO
Los Amigos Hospital,
Downey, California, before
November 30, 1962.

Superintendent of Parks
and Forestry —— Adminis-
trative responsibility super-
vising twenty-employee stafI
in planning. development,
and maintenance Of 300
acres Of park area. includ-
ing ninc-hole golf course
and artificial ice rink. De-
partment responsihle for
care Of 25,000 trees on city-
owned property. chr‘ce'in
park management or related
subject, plus at least five
years echrience in super-
visory position involving
construction, maintenance,
and Operation Of park and
recreation facilities. Salary
$7,000-38.500. Contact Per-
sonnel Office, Municipal
Building, Birmingham,
Michigan.

Directors — Two lioys’
Cmnps -—— Herald Tribune
Fresh Air Fund own prop-
erty, Sharpe Reservation,
Fishkill, Ncw York. Em-
phasis on all out-door living
activities. Camp Pioneer:
capacity 80. 14-16 yrs.
Camp Hayden: capacity
108, 11-I3 yrs. Salary
$1,000-$l.300. Season: 6/19
tO 8/29/63. Write: Lau-
rence Mickolic, Associate
Dircctor, 230 West 41st
Street, New York 36.

Therapists for California
State Hospitals. Opportu-
nity to plan and conduct
individual patient recrea-
tion as well as spccial
group activities; modern
eQIIipment and facilities
available. Positions open to
college graduates with ma-
jor in recreation or recrea-
tion therapy, which includ-
ed supervised field work.
No experience required.
Starting salary $463.00 pcr
month; promotional Oppor-
tunities; liheral employee
henefits. Write State Per-

sonnel Board, 801 Capitol

Avenue, Sacramento, Cali-
fornia.

The publisher assumes no responsibility for services or items advertised here.

482

When writing tO our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

RAILWAY CHILDREN, THE, E. Nes‘oit. Penguin
Books, 3300 Clipper Mill R(l., Baltimore 11,
Md. Pp. 239. Paper, $.95.

SANDPIPERS, Edith Thacher H nrd. Thomas Y.
Crowell, 432 Park Ave. S., New York 16.
Unpaged. $2.35.

SECOND TREASURE CHEST or TALES, THE. Mc-
Dowell, Oblensky, 219 E. 61st St., New York
21. Pp. 573. $4.95.

SERAEINA THE GIRAFFE, Laurent de Brunhoff.
2231 W. 110th St., Cleveland 2, Ohio. Un-
paged. $3.00.

SEVEN LITTLE FIELD MICE, Mary C. Montgom-
ery. Exposition Press, 386 Park Ave. S.,
New York 16. Pp. 32. $2.25.

SEVEN SIMEONS (new ed., 1961) . Boris Artzy-
basheff. Viking Press, 625 Madison Ave.,
New York 22. Unpaged. $3.50.

SHADOW BOOK, THE, Beatrice Shenk de Reg-
niers. Harcourt, Brace, 750 3rd Ave., Ncw
York 17. Unpaged. $2.75.

SHELLS ARE WHERE YOU FIND THEM. Eliza-
beth Clemons. Alfred Knopf, 501 Madison
Ave., New York 22. Pp. 86. $2.75.

SNOW QUEEN AND OTHER TALES, THE (Rus-
sian). Golden Press, 630 5th Ave., New
York 20. Pp. 136. $3.95.

SOMETHING FOR YOU, SOMETHING FOR ME, Ma-
hel Watts. Abelard-Schuman, 6  57th
St., New York 19. Unpaged. $2.75.

STOP THAT BALL! Mike McClintock. Ran-
dom House, 457 Madison Ave., New York
22. Pp. 64. $1.95.

WONDERFUL WIZARD 0F 07., TIIE, L. Frank
Baum. Dover Publ., 180 Varick St., New
York. Pp. 268. Paper, $1.45.

MAGAZINE ARTICLES

ADULT LEADERSHIP, September 1962
Our Senior Citizens Assume Responsibility,
l. Glouberman.
BETTER CAMPIVG, September-October 1962
Backpacking: New World Of Adventnrc,
Bob and Wilma Knox.
lf All Parks Look Like This (The Casc for
\Vilderness Protection), George Tltontp-
son.
Let Your Canoc Carry You, James R. Gregg.
CAMPING lLLUSTRATI‘.D,* August 1962
New York State’s Gorgeous Gorge (Watkins
Glen). Ruth Douglterty.
Folding a Tent the Easy Way, Marv Lind-
berg.
I’ARENTS’ MAGAZINE. September 1962
It’s Tough TO Be a Teen-Ager, Joseph F.
l’helan, Jr., (as told to Ralph Lec Smitlt).
Givc Then] a ClIanee tO Dancc, Melissa llay-
den.
PLANNING AND CIvIC COMMENT, September
1962
Look How Open Space Can IlOld Down
Your Taxes, Ratlt Rttsch.
TIIE PTA MAGAZINE, October 1962
Adolescent Apathy, llelen Steers Burgess.
Developing the Sixth Scnse—Thc Sense Of
Community, Richard K. Kerckhofl anrl
Flo Gould.
SENIOR CITIZEN, October 1962
Retirement Counseling Service, F. 7:. Youn-

ker, lll.D.

* Puhlished monthly by Charlcs Taliaferro,
Sr., 1122 Fourth Avenue, San Diego 1, Califor-
nia. 3.35 a cOpy, $3.50 annually.

RECREATION

 

Pamphlet Series—The Performing Arts as Recreation

Now is the time

PERFORMING
ARTS
PROGRAMS

 

Order in QUANTITY LOTS

No. I — MUSIC IS RECREATION
No. II—DRAMA IS RECREATION

— The Right Tools for the Job ——-—-

Use with
Your staff Your board or commission
Advisory Committees Citizen committees
Clubs Planning groups
And for
Fundraising Promotion of bond issues,
Publicity Selling recreation;
Education Trainiig of volunteers
Program Planning Telling your story.

Current prices as applied to each title
Single copies—$1.00 each—OR

11 to 24 copies of the same title—$.85 each 0 25 or more—$.75 each
100 or over of the same title—$65 per hundred 0 Single copy—$1 .00

Order from

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION 8 West Eighth Street, New York 11, N.Y.

'3 '_ sings that most of us take for granted are agonizingly out of reach
- .. ‘y people. The aged who sit alone and wait. Teen-agers desperately
_. "d of reassurance and advice. Families breaking up. Children lost in
I ; lur of their own troubled minds. The homeless, the handicapped, the
ck. But there is hope. You can bring a better life within their reach.
-Your generous contribution to your United Way campaign will narrow
the gap between sorrow and happiness for so many'. Give the United Way

3' III”
, Ill
. HEAEH  -

 

