OCTOBER 1963

I F!

 

ANNOUNCING THE All NEW ’64

       
 

lOUISVlllE ‘
SlUGGER

 
 

 LOUISVILLE
and
£19; My LOUISVILLE

HILLERICH & BRADSBY 00., LOUISVILLE, KY.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

Build your
autumn activity

program around
the Third Annual

Ford Dealers—

National Football

League

Q< u‘ I


a. .

     

\ NUJTU‘D’UTIXBII

‘ °Rujmllmwelm

PUNT, PASS a melt 0MPET|T|0N

Free for all boys 8 thru 11! Regis-
tration September 3 to October 11!

Now’s the time to alert your boys
to sign-up dates for
Ford's third annual
Punt, Pass & Kick
Competition! Recrea-
tion leaders across the
country endorse PP&K as an excel-
lent autumn activity. lt’s educational,
competitive, safe . . . and fun. It’s
commended by parents, men’s
service clubs, national youth organ-
izations . . .and the President of the
United States. Your Ford Dealer will
give you full details on how you can
make PP&K an important part of
your own recreation program.

 

OCTOBER. 1963

Local Play-offs and Prizes! Each
boy competes in punting, passing
and place-kicking only against boys
his own age. (There’s no body con-
tact.) Local competitions are sched-
uled to begin on or about October
12. There are three prizes for each
age grOUp . . . a warm-up jacket,
helmet, and official-size, auto-
graphed NFL football! (Trophies
awarded in lieu of merchandise in
Missouri, Montana, New Mexico and
Wyoming.) Other prizes for regional,
state and area winners! Eight na-
tional winners and their parents will
go on a “Tour of Champions” to the
White House in Washington, 0.0.,
to Dearborn, Michigan, and to the
NFL Championship game!

Free Gift for Registering! Boys must
be accompanied by a parent or legal
guardian when they register. While
at their Ford Dealer's, all boys get
these useful gifts:

I The Punt, Pass & Kick folder with
tips compiled by three top NFL
players

I An attractive “Action-Picture"
ring
I The Ford Tele-Viewer—a spotter

book that helps boys and dads
follow the NFL games on TV

For complete details and rules see your
Ford Dealer displaying the PP&K sign

me so YEARS THE SYMBOL or DEPENDABLE PRODUCTS
“W

morok‘oénnnr

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 34.9

RECREATION

 

 

OCTOBER 1963 VOL. lVI NO. 8 PRICE 60c
THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT
GENERAL
Rural Recreation . . . . . . l . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 352
Report of the 2nd National Seminar on Rural Family Recreation
Recreation as a Power for Peaee (Editorial) . . . . . . . C. 0tt Romney 355

T ranscending language barriers and diplomatic schisms

BroadHorizons  RuthScluunm 356
Peace Corps volunteers develop new frontiers in recreation

Obsolete Assumptions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Stewart L. Udall 359
Don’t make plans for a world that no longer exists

Outdoor Recreation in America 361
T wenty-seven supplementary reports augment ORRRC findings

Providence Takes a Hand . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Evelyn D. Baldoni 364
Searchlight on the twilight zone of delinquency

Drama in San Quentin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . John N. Apostol 366

A thcater workshop dourishes behind bars

PROGRAM

 

.lames Hull Millcr 370

F oldaway Theater . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
New dimensions for your multi-purpose room

Military Recreation: A Family Affair . . . . . . . .. Edward L. Ericson 373
Planned program for Air Force personnel living abroad

Changing Silhouettes in Sport . . Thomas A. Petcrson and C. A. Schmidt 375
Adaptations in soft-ball and miniature golf

ADMINISTRATION

 

Ice Rinks: Construction and Operation
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Don A. l’arhhurst and Harold Van Cott 377

The potential rink operator must make many complcx decisions

Creative Tank Town . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . William Rawls, Jr. 380
Railroad watcrtank becomes a cultural fount

Notes for the Administrator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 382
County recreation responsibilities

DIGEST f

 

How to Sell the Voter . . . . . . . . t’lfaxwell Nathan 383

Tax and bond issues must be merchandiscd

MONTHLY ‘

Letters 351 As \Ve Go To Press 353 Reporter’s Notebook 368
Personnel 385 Market News 386 Resource Guide 387
Rx for the Ill and Ilandieapped 389 New Publications 390

 

 

RECREATION is published monthly except July and August by the National Recreation Association.
a service organization supported by voluntary contrlbutions. at 8 West Eighth Street. New York 11.
New York. is on file in public libraries and is indexed in the Readers' Gulde. Subscription $5.00 a
year. Canadian and foreign subscription rate $5.75. Re-entered as second-class matter April 25.
1950. at the Post Office in New York. New York. under Act of March 3. 1879. Acceptance for mailing
at special rate of postage provided for in Section 1103. Act of October 3. 1917. authorized May 1.
1924. Microfilms of current issues available from University Microfilms. 313 N. First Street. Ann
Arbor. Michigan.

DUCATIONAL The articles herein printed are Copyright. 1963. by the

R E S S the expression of the writers and National Recreation Association.
5 5 0C] AT'ON not a statement of policy of the

A M BR I  National Recreation Association.

  
 
 

tnc0rporated
Printed in the U.S.A.

 

350

 

Editor in Chief
JOSEPH PRENDERGAST

Editor
DOROTHY DONALDSON

Assistant Editor
ELVIRA DELANY

Associate Editor for Program
VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

Business Manager
FRANK ROWE

Advertising Manager

ESTA GLUCK
W

On the Cover

A Peace Corps worker in Bangkok
(left) works with a native aspirant
for the 1964 Olympics. The Peace
Corps assignment demands all the
technical, recreational, and social
skills at his command. The Na-
tional Recreation Association is as-
sisting the New York School of So-
cial Work in training a new con-
tingent of Peace Corps volunteers
during October and November { see
Page 353 ). Recreation assignments
undertaken by the Peace Corps are
described in “Broad Horizons,”

Page 356.
Next Month

Elsie is quite a gal as you will dis-
cover when you read "What ls Cy-
bernetics?” Elsie, more formally
known as “Electro-Light-Sensitive-
Internal-External,” is a primitive
general-purpose robot who is driv-
ing scientists, labor leaders, social
critics, military and industrial lcad-
ers into a frenzy of conjecture.
And, as if Elsie were not enough
all by herself, the further impact of
automation and expanding leisure
will be explored in "Our New Auto-
Inated World.” In “Can Commu-
nity Recreation Meet the Needs of
Youth?” Dr. James A. Wylie of
Boston University gives ways to at-
tract nonconforming youngsters;
while another piece explores the
nature of state services and agen-
cies in recreation. Several articles
on facilities and maintenance in-
clude a picture story on the new
aquatorium in Commerce, Califor-
nia, and a discussion of swimming
pool filters. “The Magic of Christ-
mas” tells about a successful twelve-
day international program in Day-

ton, Ohio.

Photo Credits

Page 356, Phil Conklin; 357, John
and Bini Ross, Black Star; 359,
U.S. Forest Service.

RECREATION

LETTERS .

 

Knowing What to Expect
Sirs:

In providing entertainment as recre-
ation for the retarded adolescent and
young adult, little or nothing should be
taken for granted as far as the experi-
ence is concerned. Too often this group
is taken into what is meant to be a rec-
* reation entertainment experience con-
fused as to what to expect or expecting
one thing and receiving another.

These experiences are not good in
two respects. First, in many cases, not
having enough previous experiences,
the retarded adolescent and young
adult finds it difficult to know how to
respond; that is, respond properly to a
given situation. And, second, if this
activity is carried on among normal
adolescents and young adults, the re-
tarded group, with its inapprOpriate
actions and responses, becomes quite
conspicuous. What could normally be
an enjoyable experience, could become
a humiliating experience for both
groups.

Many times, after taking a group out
to a concert, or parade, or ballet, et
cetera, we come back saying, “I don’t
know if they got anything out of it or
not.” This is because the retarded per-
son did not know what he was supposed
to have gotten out of it (the entertain-
ment) . The first thing we, as recreation
leaders, should do is define the activity.
Do not take for granted that this is
known. Even with normal people, the
words theater, carnival and show take
on different meanings and suggest dif-
ferent meanings and suggest different
experiences. The retarded person
should know the expected experience
and be led to believe, if this is the case,
that he can receive the same or similar
experiences from the entertainment.

Anticipating the experience is not a
new device in education-—and that’s
what it is, educating. Athletic coaches
have been doing it for years. In foot-
ball, while preparing for “the big
game,” the coach shows movies of the
other team, runs their plays, and often
teaches the movements of each player
on the opponent’s starting team. This
education allows the player to know
what to expect from the other team
when they meet on the gridiron. Boxers
do the same thing by sparring with a
partner who has the same or similar
movcments, size, style. et cetera, as
their Opponents. In a similar way, we.
in recreation, can prepare the retarded
adolescent and young adult so he will
enjoy the entertainment engaged in and

OCTOBER, 1963

it will be a true, wholesome recreation
experience.
CHARLES \V. \‘i-"ILIJAMS, Recreation
Instructor, Willoivbroolc State School,
Staten Island, New York.

Yonth Baseball
Sirs:

here at George Air Force Base, we
read the article on youth baseball by
Mrs. Jeanette Hunt of Coral Gables,
Florida, in the May issue of RECREA-
TION Wltl] a great deal of interest. rl he
article was certainly timely for us be-
cause we have initiated somewhat the
same program here. It took a lot of de-
bating and arguing to convince the
powers here that this type of program
Is best for our operation. We were not
sure that everyone was convinced that
we were making the right move but
Mrs. Hunt’s article did the trick.

SMSGT. MICHAEL PAOLETTI, 831st

Combat Support Group (TAG),

George Air force Base, California.

Permission to Reprint
Sirs:

Your permission is requested to re-
print the following articles which have
appeared in RECREATION Magazine:
"Uutdoor Recreation Areas for Hous-
ing Projects” (May 1962),- “From
Wing-Ding to Hinky-Dink” (May
1962),- “"1 he Varied Faces of Recrea-
tion in Housing Projects” (May 1960);
and “Study for the Development of
a Neighborhood Playground” (April
1948).

These publications will be utilized
particularly by Miss Dorothy Jones,
community facilities officer in our At-
lanta regional office, but we feel they
would be useful in our other regional
offices as well.

HAROLD CADEN, Director, General

Management Branch, Public Hous-

ing Administration, Washington,
D.C.

Material on America

Sirs:

if he people in our town admire Amer-
ica very much and have a great intercst
in American magazines and papers of
which our public library has very few.
We would like to ask your readers if
they would send us some American
magazines and papers. With kind re-
gards and best wishes to you and the
people of America.

MICIIDAR S. AHMAD, Chief, Pare-Pare

Public Library, 94 Ban Massepe

Street, Pare-Pare, South Sal, Indo-

nesia.

BURKE
BETTER
BUILL

Playground,
Sports and
Recreation
Equipment

Quality construction...
Engineered for Safety,

Performance and Low-
est Maintenance.

Creative products...
Designed for happy
playtime activity and
leisure.

Never

a compromise _
with quality when
YOU BUY BURKE

write for 1963 catalog

the I. E. 

company

Fond Du Lac,
Wisconsin

URA’E

New Brunswick,
New Jersey

4222/;
Built

 

OBUQKF- 19F J

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 351

RURAL
RECREATION

Report of the 2nd National Seminar on

Rural Family Recreation, Huntley, Illinois

National Seminar on Rural Family Recreation, Thor
Research Center for Better Farm Living, Huntley,
Illinois, was brought by Tom N orthey, three years old! The
seminar, called. as “a result of studies devel0ped by the U.S.
Department of Agriculture, National Recreation Associa-
tion, American Recreation Society, and The Athletic Insti-
tute,” was attended by more than one hundred representa-
tives from these organizations to further examine the possi-
bilities of expansion of recreation services for farm families
in a rapidly changing rural scene. Again host to the seminar
was Neil C. Hurley, Jr., chairman of the board and presi-
dent, Thor Power Tool Company, Aurora, Illinois, and
originator of the Thor Center. The seminar was chaired by
Stewart C. Case, community developmcnt specialist, Colo-
rado State University, and special arrangements wcre made
by Maynard Coe, dircctor of the Thor Center.
An important part of the first day’s program was a morn-

THE BALE 0F GRASS on the conference floor, at the 2nd

ing presentation, in the form of “living case histories,” by
farm families who gave warmly candid accounts of their
farm recreation activities. Some had opened their farm-
lands for recreation purposes, taking advantage of the new
legislation allowing loans for resourcc developmcnt,’ but
the limelight was usurped by thc seven-memhcr Richard
Northey family which gave details of its own recreation, of
mixing family fun with the daily farming activitics on its
150 acres of stony farmland in Wisconsin. 0f four girls in
the family, Alice the eldest is 16; Tom, mentoned above, is
the only boy.

Tom was allowed to feed grass to an elephant, once, when
the family went to the zoo, and now his hobhy is to collect
grass to have on hand next time he meets one. Members of
the family respect his “collecting,” and takc the grass along
on all trips, even package it in the farm “baler.” This illus-
trates the worth and dignity accorded to the intercsts of cach
family member by the others.

The Northey family creates its own recreation out of the
very stuff of life, makes it an integral part of daily farm
living. For example, sewing is not a chore but cxciting fun
for the older girls as they plan clothing for themselch and
the younger children and see the results of their efforts being
worn, enjoyed, and admired by the rest of the family and
their friends. Refinishing old furniture to replace that which
is shabby has become a fun project of Alice’s and is exciting
the whole family with its possibilities and the beauty of the

*See “Recreation Use of Farm Lands,” RECREATION Magazine, Dc-
cember 1962.

352

 

“at M.

F rose-wheeling jmrticipants at the Rural Recreation Seminar
include, left to right, Dr. George Dow, University of Maine;
Professor Richard B. Tomkinson, Kansas State University;

Mrs. Theresa S. Brungardt, State of Vermont; Professor Rea-
gan B. Brown, Texas A&'M ; Dr. John 13. Mitchell, Ohio State
College; Dr. E. A. (Swede) Scholer, State University of Iowa.

finished pieccs. The family group entertains a very genuine
admiration for the varying interests and growing skills of
cach individual member and draws upon them whcn group
projects are underway. Mr. and Mrs. N orthey are both ac-
tive in the community as well, making one of their groves
available to community groups, and the family draws upon
community resources whenevcr such can help with thcir
recreation plans.

The assembled delegates were so favorably impresscd by
the Northey’s activities, which illustrate so well what recrca-
tion lcaders mean when they speak of “family recrcation,”
that Mrs. Northey’s closing remark was adoptcd as thc theme
of most of the afternoon discussion scssions. Her words
werc: “Let’s have fun with what wc havc at hand, whcn
we have it, and wherc we have it!”

The keynote address of the seminar was given in the after-
noon by Dr. George F. Dow, University of Maine. Hc re-
ferrcd to the urgent need to inventory our natural resourccs
in this day of CXplOditlg population, land shortages, and the
growing popularity of outdoor recreation, and stath that
state surveys are an important step in that direction. Such a
step is just getting under way in Maine. I‘lc dcclared that
the necd for zoning and allocation of resourccs may call for
an educational program to acquaint local citizens with its
advantages. He stressed the necd for rescarch and extcnsion
assistance. “Our universities. state and federal agcncies,”
he said, “can and must provide such assistancc, if we are to
avoid many costly errors.”

The afternoon workShOp sessions were on: “Thc Rural
Family at Home and in thc Community,” chaired by Theresa
5. Brungardt, director of recreation, Vermont; “Rccreation
Land Use,” chaired by Joe R. Cardenuto, recreation special-
ist, Pennsylvania State University; “Rural Recreation and
Resource Development,” chaired by Arthur F. Wilcden,
rural sociologist, University of Wisconsin; “Leadership and
Program Development,” chaired by Bernice M. Scott, ex-
tension recrcation specialist, Cornell University. chorts
were given and discusscd next day and a summing up pre-
sented by Dr. Harry C. Edgren of Purdue. An overall report
will be released by the seminar committee at a future date. 

RECREATION

AS WE GO TO PRESS

 

D RESOLUTIONS of the National Asso-
ciation of Counties for 1963 cover,
briefly: Outdoor Recreation, endorsing
the basic findings of the Outdoor Rec-
reation Resources Review Commission
as they apply to state and local govern-
ments, and supporting a program of
federal grants-in-aid to help states and
local governments plan, acquire lands,
and develop facilities.

Recreation User Fees, voicing the belief
that users of public outdoor recreation
resources should assist in paying for
the cost of maintenance and operation
through user fees. “In general,” the
resolution states, “fees should be related
to the use of facilities provided at pub-
lic expense, as contrasted with admis-
sion fees or general licenses required
for the use of public properties. Rev-
enues from fees should be applied to-
ward improving and expanding outdoor
recreation opportunities.”

Federal Parks and Recreation Areas,
recognizing that public interest is
served by the acquisition and manage-
ment of areas, by the federal govern-
ment, “which provide genuine national
scenic, scientific, historic, or recrea-
tional significance.” They strongly
recommend to federal agencies that in
all studies of possible new areas, or ex-
pansions of existing areas, the county
governing boards representing the areas
be consulted and participate in these
studies and deliberations.

D CHARLES MILO CHRISTIANSEN of the
Denver, Colorado, Recreation and
Parks Department, becomes a member
of the National Recreation Association
staff on September 23, to assist Charles
Hartsoe, National Recreation Congress
secretary, with the 1963 Congress in St.
Louis. On December first, Mr. Chris-
tiansen moves into the position of Con-
gress secretary to replace Mr. Hartsoe
who is being transferred to the office of
the executive director of the National
Recreation Association, Joseph Pren-
dergast, to assist with budget and ad-
ministrative matters. Mr. Hartsoe came
to the Association from the Philadel-
phia recreation department.

D THREE SPECIAL SESSIONS on recrea-
tion principles and skills will be in-
cluded in the training of a new con-
tingent of Peace Corps volunteers this
fall. The National Recreation Associa-
tion will assist the New York School of
Social Work, Columbia University, with
this phase of the group’s indoctrination.
The three training sessions will be held
October 9 and 16, and November 22.
Virginia Musselman, director of the

OCTOBER, '1963

NRA Program Service, will present the
basic principles, philosophy, values, and

oals of recreation. Helen Dauncey,
KIRA training specialist, will hold two
workshops on recreation skills. This
contingent is scheduled for an urban
community development project in Co-
lombia, South America. (For more on

the Peace Corps and recreation, see
Pages 356-8 and the cover.)

D IN OMAHA, NEBRASKA, Mrs. Paul Gal-
lagher, board member of the National
Recreation Association, has just been
reappointed to the Park and Recreation
Commission.

D THE SEVENTEENTH annual meeting of
the National Trust for Historic Preser-
vation will be held in Washington,
D.C., October 17-20, at the Shoreham
Hotel. Address of the Trust is 815 17th
Street, N .W., Washington 6, DC.

D TRICK OR TREAT for UNICEF. Any-

one can spark interest in this, a parent,
teacher, religious leader, teenager. For

groups of thirty-five young people or

over, the UNICEF Halloween Kit is now
available at $1.00 each. It includes
thirty-five identification stickers, post-
ers, sample brochures, planning manual
and publicity suggestions. Send imme-

diately to U.S. Committee for UNICEF,
P.O. Box 1618, Church Street Station,
New York, N. Y. 10008.

D THE Midwest Recreation Executive’s
School will be held February 16-21,
1964-, at the University of Kansas.
(There has been some confusion about
this because it was not held last year.)
It is sponsored by the National Recrea-
tion Association, The University of
Kansas, and the National Recreation
Association Midwest District Advisory
Committee. Subjects and faculty will
be announced later.

D WITH ONE EXCEPTION, the status of a
number of recreation and conservation
bills pending before Congress remains
the same as reported in our June and
September issues. The Senate has passed

the National Services Corps Bill (H.R.
5625, S. 1321) which provides a domes-

tic service corps to strengthen commu-
nity service programs in the United
States. No further action has been taken
by the House.

D LET’S NOT PUSSYFOOT on the issue of
air pollution, Senator Harrison A. Wil-
liams recently told Congress. Said the
Senator, “It used to be a romantic no-
tion of ours that fog came on little cat
feet, sat looking over harbor and city
on silent haunches and then moved on.

It comes on little cat feet and sits on
silent haunches all right, but it isn’t fog,
it’s smog, and it sits far too long before
it moves on. The result is a silent creep-
ing menace to our health, a multi-billion
dollar cost to industry and agriculture,
and a general blight that mocks our
efforts to provide a good life for all the
Americans who live in our cities and
suburbs.” The corrosive damage of air
pollution to industry and agriculture
has been estimated at between 37,000,-
000,000 and $11,000,000,000 a year.

D INTERNATIONAL, FLASH! On August
11, 1963, the International Senior Citi-
zen Association was born in Copenha-
gen, reports Mrs. Marjorie Borchardt,
member of the Los Angeles Mayor’s
Committee for Senior Citizens and
member of the California Governor’s
Committee on Aging.

D THE Eleanor Roosevelt Memorial
Foundation has designated the period
from October 11, the 79th anniversary
of her birth, to November 7, the first
anniversary of her death, as a special
commemorative period in which to
honor the memory of “The First Lady
of the World.” Some organizations are
arranging special programs for this pe-
riod; if you wish to be among these,
write the foundation at Empire State
Building, New York, N. Y. 10001, so
that they may be of help.

At a recent press conference which
attracted national attention, foundation
chairman, Adlai E. Stevenson, an-
nounced the decision of the founda-
tion’s board of trustees to develop a
program in human rights and race re-
lations “as an appropriate and endur-
ing memorial to Mrs. Roosevelt.” On
October 11, a commemorative stamp
ceremony will take place at the White
House, with President Kennedy and
other dignitaries taking part; and an in-

ternational tribute on October 21 will
be held at Lincoln Center in New York.

D NEW HANDBOOKS AND PROGRAMS were
announced by the Girl Scouts of Amer-
ica on September 9, at a reception given
at their headquarters at 830 Third Ave-
nue in New York City. The organiza-
tion enters its second half century of
service with a new design for program
at four age levels: Brownies, ages seven
and eight; Juniors, ages nine, ten, and
eleven; Cadettes, ages twelve, thirteen,
and fourteen; and Seniors, ages fifteen,
sixteen, and seventeen. A new hand;
book. for each age level, illustrated in
color, and filled with things to learn and
do, is now available at local Scout head-
quarters fOr $1.00 each.

353'

THINGS YOU SHOULD KNOW

} APPROVAL of $3,874,000 in Acceler-
ated Public Works Projects was an-
nounced recently by Secretary of the
Interior Stewart L. Udall (see also Page
359). Of this, $2,022,000 is earmarked
for a variety of forest improvements in
Alabama, California, Florida, and Ken-
tucky, providing approximately 170
man-years of on-site employment. The
projects include betterments to public
lands, national parks, national monu-
ments, and wildlife refuges. They will
improve facilities used by millions of
hikers, picnickers, and campers; help
promote tourism; and conserve the na-
tion’s timber and water resources, in
addition to providing much-needed em-

ployment.
An additional $1,852,000 in APW

projects will be invested in a wide range
of forest conservation activities in nine-
teen other states. Most of the work is
scheduled to begin within a month. The
projects will provide approximately
4,200 man-months of on-site employ-
ment and generate additional jobs by
creating a demand for goods and ser-
vices. They Cover improvements to pub-
lic lands, national parks, national mon-
uments, wildlife refuges, and Indian
reservations.

} AN EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION has
been organized to promote and stimu-
late a growing interest in folk dancing
throughout the world. Titled The In-
ternational Folk Dance Foundation,
Inc., the nonprofit organization will
have headquarters in New York City.
For further information write the foun-

dation at 300 West End Avenue, New
York, N. Y. 10023.

) STUDIES completed by the National
Recreation Association in 1962 and

1963 are:

Major: El Paso, Texas, Recreation
Areas and Facilities, 1962; Kansas
City, Missouri, Recreation Program
and Personnel, 1962; Cambridge, Mas-
sachusetts, Public Recreation in Cam-
bridge, 1962; Fox Hills, California,
Open Space Study, 1962; East Grand
Rapids, Michigan, Recreation and
Parks, 1963; Amherst, New York, Rec-
reation and Parks, 1963; St. Louis
County, Missouri, Recreation Land
Needs, 1963; Hutchinson, Kansas,
1963.

Minor: West Orange, New Jersey, Rec-
reation Areas and Facilities, 1963;
Forks Township, Pennsylvania, Recrea-
tion Areas and Facilities, 1963; Harri-
sonburg, Virginia, Recreation Areas
and Facilities, 1963; Morris County,
New Jersey, Recreation Areas and F a-
cilities, 1963; Williston, North Dakota,
Brief Area and Facility Study, 1963;
Auburn, New York, Recreation Areas

354

and Facilities, 1963; Brevard County,
Florida, Recreation Area and Facility
Needs in Districts 1 and 4, 1962; St.
Charles, Illinois, Evaluation Study of
Parks and Recreation, 1962; Peacedale,
Rhode Island, Survey for Neighbor-
hood Guild, 1963; Augusta and Rich-
mond County, Georgia, Preliminary
Study of Areas and Facilities, 1963.

) AN INTERNATIONAL CENTER for the
Study of Leisure Time has been estab-
lished in Paris at 179 Boulevard Hauss-
mann. This association, a branch of the
National Center for the Association of
Engineers, Technicians, Industrialists,
Teachers and Research Workers, aims
to influence public opinion to take more
interest in problems arising from the
fact that workers have more leisure
time than ever before and from the fact
that the retirement age of workers has
been advanced. It also proposes to en-
courage the extension of cultural activ-
ity to the level of mass leisure time.

> THE 7TH National Catholic Youth Or-
ganization Convention will be held No-
vember 14-17, 1963 at the New York
Hilton Hotel. Ten thousand leaders and
youth are expected.

} MORE THAN eighty thousand pleasure
and business visitors came to the United
States from overseas points during July
1963, according to the United States
Department of Commerce. This brings
the seven-month total of overseas visi-
tors to 412,000, which represents a 21
percent increase over the J anuary-J uly
period of 1962. Thus, with over half
of the year taken into account, we are
realizing our objective of a 20 percent
increase for the entire year. It is an

increase over the first seven months of
1961 of 47.6 percent.

} ONE OR MORE income-producing rec-
reation enterprises were established by
9,816 land owners and operators coop-
erating with their locally managed soil
and water conservation districts during
fiscal year 1963. The US Department
of Agriculture announces that an addi-
tional 9,075 district cooperators intend
to establish one or more recreation en-
terprises. In all, 39,685 district cooper-
ators considered including recreation
for profit in their operations in the
course of receiving technical help from
the USDA’s Soil Conservation Service
during the fiscal year. ( See “Recreation
Use of Farm Lands, RECREATION, De-
cember 1962.)

A total of 945 district cooperators
switched from livestock, dairy, crops,
fruits, and similar farming activities to
recreation enterprises as a primary
source of income. This involved 237,-

691 acres of land. Another 1,562 coop-
erators said they will convert 511,780

acres of land from present livestock and
cropping patterns to recreation as a pri-
mary source of income.

The income-producing recreation en-
terprises established and planned in-
clude vacation farms, picnic and sports
centers, fishing waters, camping and na-
ture recreation areas, hunting areas,
and shooting preserves.

) THE “ACTIVE RETIREMENT” industry
in California is growing at such a rate
that more than three hundred major fa-
cilities now exist or are being developed
for dynamic living on the part of active
senior citizens. Facilities in existence
or scheduled for ground-breaking dur-
ing 1963 in California represent a
builder investment of well over $1,000,-
000,000, according to a survey just
completed by International Data Corpo-
ration. The study shows there are
eighty-four major communities for re-
tirement which have independent living
facilities built around common centers
where recreation and social attractions
are shared by all residents. A total of
twenty-nine facilities offer apartment
dwelling with community-shared work-
shops and meeting rooms. There are
fifty major mobile home communities
in California appealing to the retired
or semi-retired while fifty-eight facili-
ties offer large-scale lodging with board,
and forty-three ma or hotels in the state
have been converted to the exclusive use
of senior Citizens. The information
gathered in the survey is being pub-
lished in the California Retirement F a-
cilities Register by the Active Retire-
ment Executives Association, 6043 Hol-
lywood Boulevard, Los Angeles 28, Cal-
ifornia, and is available for $3.00.

) TAKING SHAPE. The New York
World’s Fair site today looks, at first
glance, like Cape Canaveral. Angular
towers, looking like missile gantrys,
reach up toward the sky. The lower
structures are strange and different, too,
and bulge with uncovered sinews of raw
steel. Bulky construction machines and
cranes, manned by helmeted workers,
trundle about the site. The newness and
the size of everything suggests the space
age. Pervading all is an air of urgency
and excitement. The fair will be open

from April 22-October 18, 1964 and
April 21-October 17, 1965. Admission
will be $2 for adults and $1 for Children.
Children under two will be admitted
free. Advance tickets may be purchased
before February 29, 1964 at $1.80 for
adults and $.90 for children. A book
of twenty adult admissions will sell for
$30 (advance $27); a child’s twenty-
admission book will be $15 ($13.50 ad-
vance) . You may order advance tickets
now from the World’s Fair Ticket Of-
fice, 4029 Time-Life Building, New
York, N. Y. 10020.

RECREATION

EDITORIAL

 

G. OTT ROMN EY

RECREATION is an international lan-
guage because it is a universal
language. Since recreation is a segment
of the living process and thus a part of
everyone’s life, it finds understanding
and response in whatever form and
wherever it is practiced. For recreation
is not a matter of the motions but rather
of the emotions. It is not a list of activities. It is expression
of the creative spirit, release of energy in chosen free-time
pursuits, satisfaction of demanding appetites—of social
hungers. It is, in a very real sense, a way of life.

In its full meaning, it is not active or passive. It is always
active, for what many insist on calling “passive” involves
exercise of the mind and of the emotions by way of appre-
ciation and response to music and art and sports.

Curtains of whatever material and texture can neither
hide recreation nor shut it out nor shut it in. People every-
where have some free time and exercise some freedom of
choice, however limited, in how they occupy it. Every nation
has its songs and musical instruments, its forms of drama,
its dances, its crafts, its art, its social activities, its nature
lures, and its sports.

Always the migration of people from nation to nation and
from one section of a country to another has added to the
recreation menu of each and has brought peoples more
closely together. Understanding and acceptance are pro-
moted through sharing recreation satisfactions and enjoy-
ment. Indulging-in recreation, the participant is genuine,
obvious, self-revealing, disarmed, and disarming. By very
definition, fellow recreation participants get along with each
other and deveIOp a mutual respect.

 

' I ‘IIE ATTITUDE OF A NATION toward recreation—the popu-
lar forms and emphases it takes and the opportunities
provided for the doer and the appreciator reflect a “culture”

DR. ROMNEY is specialist in, tourism and recreation for the
Area Development Administration, U .S. Department of
Commerce, Washington, D.C.

OCTOBER, 1963

 

RECREATION
AS A POWER
FOR PEACE!

 

I a a 0 9,
“Recreatwn is an mternatzonal language

—are a decidedly important element in its “culture.” It must
be remembered that to speak of “recreation and the cultural
activities” as if they are separate areas is to confuse, contra-
dict, and mislead. “Cultural activities,” like all other activi-
ties, are recreation when they are chosen by the individual
in his own free time for the gratification of the doing which
includes developing appreciation by cognizant listening and
viewing.

In a world which the magic of science has shrunk until
all areas are readily accessible and constantly informed
about each other, the interchange of people and the con-
comitant exposure to different recreation outlets have mul-
tiplied. Peoples are getting to know each other better—and
you can’t dislike people you know very well.

Communication between persons frequently is not easy.
Words can be inaccurate and ineffective tools. It is easy
for persons to talk right by each other while nodding in
what they believe is agreement. Between nations the art of
communication can be extremely difficult. Words of fickle
meaning result in double talk or obfuscation. Multiplica-
tion of the media of expression as often as not tends toward
confusion rather than clarity. But “action speaks louder
than words.” Attitudes aid greatly in interpretation.

RECREATION is self expression. It brings forth honest and
obvious emotional response. It knows no guile. The
participant discards all disguises. Communication is loud
and clear—without words. Recreation and play, in the
philosophical sense, are synonymous. The garden, the li-
brary, the forum, the studio and the laboratory may be
(and often are) “playgrounds.”

People who play together are relaxed and understandinr'.
They exude a warmth of fellowship. Even though they speak
different languages and have different customs, they com-
municate effectively via recreation. And they get along with
each other.

Recreation can be a “power for peace,” just one factor
among many, but an important one. It helps bring peoples
together in mutual understanding and respect. #

355

 

Peace. Corps t-olunteer Taeko Wong, aged jorty-mnt-, hails jrorn Honolulu
and serves with her It usbantl as a teacher-trainer in southern British Honduras.

BROAD
HORIZONS

Peace Corps recreation workers give

underdeveloped countries a glimpse of new frontiers

356

RUTH SCH UMM

HE EFFORTS of recreation workers
in the Peace Corps to help the
pe0ple of developing nations ap-

preciate the value of physical condition-
ing, teamwork, self-reliance and self-
discipline have evoked a warm response
from the host countries. Requests for
volunteers with recreation skills have
more than doubled this year. Recrea-
tion activities have great potential value
in helping to widen horizons and build
a healthier foundation for the improved
standards of living which volunteers
with other technical skills are trying to
promote.

Volunteer Jared Dorburg of St. Louis
expressed the fceling of many Peace
Corps recreation workers when he wrote
recently from Nigeria: “Our activities
at the school are enormous . . . the kids
are interested in any outside activity
which a volunteer might begin—pho-
tography, scouting, art, nature study,
dramatics, music, debate—anything
which can give them a glimpse of some-
thing beyond their limited sphere.”

Among the countries making the
most use of volunteers skilled in recre-
ation work is Peru. The Peruvian Foun-
dation for Art and Education, a private
organization, has asked the Peace Corps
to assist in a program of art and tech-
nological education combined with com-
munity development. Voluntccrs work
in two settlements in the city of Lima
and in two locations in the Peruvian
highlands. The program includes in-
struction in weaving, sewing. metal
working, wood carving, painting, draw-
ing, jewelry making, ceramics, carpen-
try. simplc construction, and some
teaching of basic English. The volun-
teers work in cooperation with three in-
dustrial designers who study local prac-
tices. and they have started a workshop
in thc use of new and old materials and
the development of products for local
and outside use.

Mlss SCHUMM, a rncmber of the Peace
Corps stag in. Washington, D.C., is a
former assistant to Vice-Prcsident Lyn-
don B. Johnson ( who is chairman of the
l’cace Corps Advisory Council), and a

formcr communications analyst for the
Unith Nations Relief and Rehabilita-

tion Agency (UN/{RA}.

RECREATION

05 0 children in Tanganyika show
c ' Corps volunteer Peter Wright
of Kane, Pennsylvania, how to
play the :eze, a primitive violin.
'ight is serving as a geologist,
if g the Tanganyikan government
prepare a geological map of

the entire country. I n his spare
time he often participates in
recreation activities like this one.

Margaret Hawxhurst, Peace Corps
volunteer from Fort Collins, Colorado,
who is assigned to the Lima, Peru, sub-
urb of Chimbote, describes some of
their work and problems this way: “We
girls have been setting up recreation
programs in a couple of barriadas
(marginal slum areas) surrounding the
city. The people here love soccer and
volleyball, and a woman’s service club
in Chimbote has raised funds for ce-
ment courts and playgrounds in several
barriadas. . . . At first everything is new,
fascinating, interesting and easy to ac-
cept. Then the novelty wears off and
it is all too tempting to cast fond glances
at ‘the way things are done in the
states': the constant language struggle
becomes tiresome instead of fun, the ab-
sence of electricity and running water
in our living quarters becomes a nui-
sance instead of a challenge, and the
volunteer has reached the critical stage
of whether or not he will be able to
adapL

"Fortunately, most adapt and are
able to glimpse the rewards of life in
the Peace Corps: A thankful smile on
a mother’s face, a sudden flickering of
mutual understanding at a group meet-
ing, the initative shown by a group of
men in organizing a volunteer fire de-
partment can make all of thc problems
seem insignificant.”

\NY OTHER COUNTRIES are making:
full use of the recreation skills of-
fered by Peace Corps workers. and a

OCTOBER, 1963

number of volunteers are helping with
arts-and-crafts projects. Jim Portman,
of Corapolis, Pennsylvania, working in
El Salvador, has developed a do-it-your-

cc , a:
self rag-1 ug

kit following an old
Pennsylvania Mennonite pattern. He
has distributed it on a nationwide basis
to hospitals and sanatoriums for use in
occupational therapy. Russ Studebaker
of Pampa, Texas, is teaching weaving
to the young people in the El Salvador
village where he is assigned, and he
hopes eventually they will be able to
turn this recreation activity into a prof-
itable occupation.

Some of the problems encountered
in arts-and-crafts work have been de-
scrihed by John Coyne of Midlothian,
Illinois, who wrote from his post in
Ethiopia concerning the handcraft class
which he directs: “We have run into
the usual problem that everyone experi-
ences here—the students want to start
at the tOp without any concept of what
they are doing. One suggested to me
that we build a table when he hadn’t the
vaguest idea of what a hammer was.
Since they have had little opportunity
as children to play with toys, simple
manipulation of their fingers is difficult.
I sometimes feel that a few years of
Tinker toys would benefit them more.”
Peace Corps officials who know John
Coyne feel confident that when his tour
of duty is over, the youngsters he is
working with will be able to do much
more than hammer, but his experience
is indicative of the kinds of challenges

 

and opportunities facing Peace Corps
recreation workers which they probably
would never encounter in more highly
developed areas.

Joan Hero of Westboro, Massachu-
setts, Peace Corps volunteer in Sierra
Leone, is learning along with her stu-
dents on some of the handcrafts she
teaches. “The first term we did raflia
work,” she reported. “Now, raffia prod-
ucts are very common here, and I was
amazed to discover that the girls knew
as little about it as I did. So I got a
book, experimented, and proceeded to
teach thirty-six girls how to do it . . .
With good results I might add.”

a. MONG the most rewarding assign-
ments for Peace Corps recreation
workers are the children’s villages of

Tunisia. When Tunisia gained inde-
pendence in 1956, President Habib
Bourguiba, using buildings vacated by
the French Army, established a series
of villages throughout the country to
care for and educate the orphaned and
the extremely poor. The villages range
in size from two hundred to six hundred
children from six to twenty years of
age. They offer specialized trade and
craft training in addition to the normal
primary education. The curriculum at
each village differs, some stressing ag-
riculture and mechanics, others provid-
ing training in pottery, leatherwork,
basketry, and similar crafts.

The nineteen Peace Corps volunteers

35?

-——fiftee11 men and four women—who
are doing recreation work with these
children are scattered throughout the
Country in nine villages. With the
jounger children, volunteers have in-
troduced football and baseball. “fith
the older boys, sports are taught which
will prepare them for competition in
the several Tunisian sports leagues. Vol-
unteer John Murphy of New London,
Connecticut, who has been assigned to
the village of HaHouz in north-central
Tunisia, reports that the Tunisian Min-
istry of Sports runs nationwide leagues
of competition for both interscholastic
and civilian teams, licenses all players,
and divides the levels of competition ac-
cording to age group.

“The cross-country, volleyball, hand-
ball and basketball seasons run concur-
rently from early November to mid-
March,” says Mr. Murphy. “For our
games away from home, we often crowd
eighteen or twenty players of two or
three teams into one small pickup truck
and travel distances of fifty to one hun-
dred and twenty miles. We need not
think about taking along substitute
players; there is no room for them. De-
spite the cramped ride in the truck,
which leaves them stiff, the boys (it al-
ways seems odd to call them ‘boys’——
one shaved off his mustache in order to
compete with fifteen- and sixteen-year-
olds) seem to enjoy these games and
do surprisingly well in competition.

“During the Christmas vacation,
eleven of us travelled six hundred miles
on a barnstorrning tour in two cars to
demonstrate basketball techniques in
six children’s villages. We described
shooting, passing, dribbling, and basic
defenses, then divided ourselves into
two teams for a game. For many of the
boys in the villages, this was their first
basketball game. We had a time decid-
ing how we should divide ourselves.
One group suggested that the good men
should play on one team in order to
give the students an idea of what a good
team could do. The other group wanted
to divide the talent, on the grounds that
what the boys really wanted to see was
a closely matched game.

“The division of talent idea predom-
inated, and its advocates had reason
to be proud. Bob Butts of Huntington
Station, New York, was clipped in the
mouth, Dave Noaek of Arlington, Min-

358

nesota, twisted his ankle, and Jerry Fite
of Dadeville, Missouri, broke his nose.
The kids loved it. Someone suggested
that we call ourselves ‘the Peace Trot-
ters,’ but our violence betrayed us.”
Moore’s volunteer partner, Lee Jen-
nings of Frankfort, Indiana, takes stu-
dents disqualified by the physician from
heavy exercise and gives them light cor-
rective movements and games, while
Moore works in the same classes with
the Tunisian monitor of sports. He also
coaches three village basketball teams.

T El Oudiene, the largest of the chil-
dren’s villages, three Peace Corps
recreation leaders—Dave Noaek, Ira
Tannenbaum of Teaneek, New Jersey,
and Charlie Cohen of Dallas, with the
aid of two volunteers working as build-
ing supervisors, Lowell Sykes of Idaho
Falls, Idaho, and Al Jones of Daytona,
Florida—have converted an old mining
plant into a gymnasium.

Until the volunteers went to work,
huge reinforced concrete slabs planted
in the floor prevented the building from
heing used for gym classes during bad
weather. Then Sykes and Jones talked
an American construction firm which
was working on jet runways in Tunis
into lending them a compressor and a
pneumatic drill. They cleared the room
of protruding slabs in four days of
heavy work.

Not all of the problems of Tunisian
recreation leaders are with their stu-
dents. Dave N oaek was unahle to con-
vinee the village director that in order
to teach basketball he needed baskets
and backboards. His team dropped its
first game, 82 to 6. Now he has his
baskets.

Volunteers Kurt Liske of Kent, Ohio,
and Ross Burkhardt of Central Valley,
New York, have begun an intensive in-
tramural program at Zaghouan village

 

Heav’n forming each on other to

depend,
A master, or a servant, or a friend,
Bids each on other for assistance call,

Till one man’s weakness grows the
strength of all.

—-ALEXAI\’DER POPE

 

in handball, basketball, volleyball and
table tennis; and John Kern of Iowa
City, Iowa, has developed in a very
short time what some observers feel is
a remarkably strong team of cross-
country runners at Le Kef.

THESE VOLUNTEERS are among nearly
one hundred Peace Corps workers
actively engaged in recreation and phys-
ical education projects around the
world. So impressive have been their
accomplishments that eleven countries
have requested two hundred more men
and women with recreation skills.

Jules Pagano, director of the Peace
Corps’ Professional and Technical Di-
vision, pointed out the following oppor-
tunities for potential volunteers in this
field and urged those interested to apply
as soon as possible for the new projects:
Opportunities to develop physical edu-
cation and recreation programs from
fundamentals to highly detailed
courses; to work with people who are
eager for instruction and want to be
helped and guided; to do research that
may lead to a master’s degree in the
volunteer’s chosen field; to demonstrate
the principles and philosophy of Amer-
ican sports through the estahlishlnent of
well-rounded, well-organized, and well-
administered physical education or ree-
reation programs; to learn about other
countries—the people, the language,
and culture—and to show them how
Americans think, work and learn; to
work with Olympic teams in some of
these countries; and to achieve solid ex-
perience which will be of great value to
the volunteer as he plans his future
career.

Volunteers must be American citi-
zens over eighteen. There is no maxi-
mum age limit. Married couples are
eligible if both can do needed johs and
they have no dependents under eight-
een. A volunteer receives 375 a month
readjustment allowance. The total, $1,-
800, is paid at the end of the two-year
tour of duty. He also receives allow-
anees to cover food, housing, clothing,
and Transportation and
medical care are provided.

ineidentals.

Additional information and Volun-
teer applications are available hy writ-
ing to Jules Pagano, Professional and

Technical Division, Peace Corps. \Vash-
ington 25, D.C. if:

RECREATION

Obsolete is the assumption

that “man must destroy nature in
order to conquer it.” Too often
our plans for progress mean that

STEWART l. UDALL

T00 OFTEN we make our plans for a
world that no longer exists. Obso-
lete assumptions persist, cluttering our
thinking, paralyzing action. Some in-
clude the assumptions:

That man must destroy nature in
order to “conquer” it. In the 19th
century this assumption was held as a
matter of course by nearly all Americans. “Conquering na-
ture” usually meant levelling the forests, gutting the land
for minerals, plowing up the soil in such a way that it could
be blown away by the winds, wastefully stripping our re-
sources, and obliterating the natural landscape. Although
nowadays we all consider ourselves conservationists, too
often we indulge in this same fallacious assumption. Too
often our plans for development still mean that nature must
be obliterated. The symbols of our relation to the land are
the bulldozer and the steam shovel.

Implicit in this 19th century philosOphy of “conquering
nature” is the assumption that man is something separate
from nature. We are learning increasingly nowadays from
psychology and biology that man is part of nature. His roots
are in the natural world and he separates himself from it
_ at his peril. The unnatural environment of our cities and

 

MR. UDALL is U .5. Secretary of the Interior. This material
is from his address to the Eighth Biennial Wilderness Con-

ference, March 1963.
OCTbBER, 1963

 

OBSOLETE
ASSUMPTIONS

How much “living space” do human beings really need

for best functioning?

pace of modern life accelerated the “civilized” diseases so
familiar to us all. Physicians increasingly urge patients
caught up in the urban “rat race” to get more relaxation.
For many people the best kind of refreshment and renewal
comes among trees and fields, along uncrowded seashores,
or high on mountain streams. We have in many respects
become a nation of vacation seekers in search of temporary
surcease from the abnormal strains of a fast-moving society.
Above all, modern man, perplexed and beleagured in mind
and body, needs the wholeness and serenity that come from
leisurely association with natural surroundings, particularly
with nature in its pure, unadulterated state—true wilder-
ness.

That scicnce alone can solve all of our problems. If
the assumption that man must “conquer” nature was the
dominant fallacy of the 19th century (and to some degree
of our own) the assumption that “we can leave everything
to science” is a dominant fallacy of the 20th century. Faith
in science has been a basis of our fabulous American pro-
ductivity. Science can achieve “miracles”—and does so
every day. However, as we take a long look into the future
it is time we recognized there are some things that science
cannot do.

We can expect that as the world population increases, each
person’s share of the earth’s resources will (lwindle despite
all that science can do. It is true that there are vast reserves
of such resources as fossil fuels, but as time goes 011 these

359

supplies will be of lower grade and progressively more diffi-
cult to extract. As increasing populations occupy greater
areas of cropland, we can find new food resources by better
use of these cultivated lands and by harvesting the waters
of the oceans but an herculean effort will be necessary to
keep a burgeoning population from overtaking food sup-
plies. Se far as we can see into the future, our water re-
sources nill become more expensive as we resort to desalini-
zation and transportation of water over great distances to
supply arid but popular regions, and as, we face the enor-
mous costly prospect of desilting our reservoirs.

There is one resource, however, that science cannot pro-
vide or replace at any price. That resource is true wilder-
ness. It is here that the limitations of science are most ap-
parent. It is here that our assumption that science can in-
definitely provide for a proliferating population founders

completely. None of our resources is infinite, but wilderness
is the most finite of all. It is the most expendable of our

basic resources. As a culture develops, wilderness is the last
resource to acquire value. As a culture feels the pressure
of population, wilderness will be the first to be consumed.
_ Let there be no doubt about this: If there is an irrecon-
cilable conflict between wilderness and water, a people feel-

ing the ominous pressure of population will sacrifice the
wilderness to get water. The same is true of other resources

—-—our parks and wilderness areas are, by a ratio that is
arithmetical, threatened by each incremental increase in

population. The conflict need not even be real. All that is
necessary is that enough people believe there is a conflict

between wilderness and water, or between wilderness and
lumber. and the demands to sacrifice the wilderness will be-
come irresistible.

That the population explosion is inevitable. To ques-
tion this assumption is possibly the greatest heresy of all.
Government planners operate in a sort of bureaucratic trance
when it comes to projections which indicate that the U.S.
population will almost double in forty years; and it seems
to be a corollary of this assumption that the good, the true,
and the beautiful will go hand in hand with a more p0pu-
lous nation. Is it not time that we seriously question the
bases of these assumptions?

Is it not time to give serious consideration to the “ecology
of 111an”-~—the relation of human population to its environ-
ment? Is it not time to ask whether man, as part of nature,
is subject to the laws that govern other species, particularly
the law that for every species in a particular environment

there is an optimum p0pulation? When a species expands
beyond its optimum p0pulation, it puts pressure on its re-

sources until there are not enough to go around, and the
individual fails to achieve his full growth. Although this
is most obviously true of food resources, it is also true of
the resource of living space. Biologists find that for some
species, as the amount of living space decreases beyond a
certain point, neurotic strains are set up in the individual

and his higher faculties atrophy.
How does this apply to humans? What is the proper man-

land ratio? How much “living space” do humans need for
best functioning? These are questions that are almost
wholly ignored, but that are vital to our future. Although
there is an urgent need for research on this subject, certain

360

l

aspects of the problem are already evident. They are par-
ticularly evident in California, where population growth is
seemingly a public business of considerable pride. The San
Francisco Bay area is a prime example. Studies by the U.S.
Department of Commerce indicate that the population of
this region will not merely double but almost quadruple
within sixty years. For every person presently living in this
area, according to the statiticians, there will be three others
alongside him. Will there be four times as many automo-
biles on the freeways or will there be four times as many
freeways? If so, where will they be built, if we also need
four times as many subdivisions to house the quadrupled
population?

0f one thing we can be absolutely certain; there will not
be four times as much open space available to the residents
of this region. There will not be four times as many parks.
There will not be four times as much wilderness. Indeed,
if we define wilderness, in human terms, by its correlation
with solitude, there may be very few wildlands left at all.

THE MATHEMATICS OF increasing population can lead to

some entertaining speculation. To take a hypothetical
example, suppose that an area in which four million people
live has available four million acres of open space—one acre
per person. (I would include, in open space, parks and wil-
derness as well as other undeveloped lands) . When the popu-
lation doubles to eight million pe0ple, you might expect that
there would remain huff as much open space per person, or
half an acre each. A little reflection will show that this does
not normally happen. 0f the original four million acres of
open space, a great many acres have been occupied by the
four million new people. Say, for example, that those four
million new peOple (plus their houses, roads, schools, park-
ing lots, stores, and factories) occupy two million of the
original four million acres of open space, or a quarter acre
of open space per person.

Presumably the two million remaining acres of Open space
will include the parks and wilderness regions, since the first
to be occupied will be farmlands and other nearby open
areas; but as the population continues to increase, there is
irresistible pressure on even these dedicated lands. Long
before the population doubles again, most of them will dis-
appear.

We might formulate a law governing population and open
space: The amount of open space avaifabfe per person wiii
tend to decrease at a faster rate than. the population. in-
creases. The law has a corollary: Unlimited population in-
creases will ultimately reduce the amount of open space per
person to zero.

Subsequently it will become a minus quantity-——by con-
tinued increase in the density of population. In other words,
pe0ple are piled on top of each other. The finest example
of this situation is, of course, Manhattan Island. However,
those of us who love the wide-open spaces need not despair.
There will always be the ocean—presumably.

WITH INCREASED LEISURE, rising incomes, and the grow-
ing poPularity of outdoor recreation, it has been esti-
mated that the demand for open Space, for parks, for wilder-

RECREATION

 

ness in the US. as a whole, wilh a doubled population, is ill
increase by at least three and some estimates range as high
as ten. If these figures were to be applied to the San Fran-
cisco Bay Area, we can consider the possibility that a
quadrupled population will demand at least nine times as
much outdoor recreatioanine times as much wilderness
for hiking, fishing, camping, and ironically, for “solitude.”

Under these conditions, for every person who now hopes
to camp in the summertime on the fioor of Yosemite Valley,
there will be an eventual nine. For every present hiker down
the John Muir Trail along the spine of the Sierra, there will
be nine. For every tin can and bottle and carton that now
litters park and wilderness trails, there will he nine. Here
we have, in dramatic and depressing terms, the geography
of rising population.

It is ohvious that land acquisition for parks and wilder-
ness cannot keep up with an indefinitely expanding popula-
tion. All open spaces will, by the ineluctable force of
economics, be filled with subdivisions, office buildings, fac-
tories, freeways, parking lots. The public purse cannot com-
pete with overweening private demands.

Even assuming that some parcels of wilderness can be
held against the pressures of increasing numbers of people,
the only way of preserving them would be to do what we do
with any commodity in short supply—ration it. A wilder-
ness trampled by thousands of refugees from the city is no
longer a wilderness, and the only way it can be maintained
in its natural state as the population increases is to keep
people out—to limit access. You would make reservations
and wait your turn, it would be as simple as that.

PARK AND WILDERNESS rationing in this country is not
merely a prospect for the remote future but could con-
ceivahly become necessary in the years or decades immedi-
ately ahead. To get in the car when the mood strikes you
and find natural sanctuary from the pressures of modern

life—as we do at present———may become a privilege to look
back on, in the years to come, as we customarily look back
on golden ages of the past.

What will happen to the qualitypf life as we approach
the point where the available natural areas of the continent
offer standing room only? As population crowds in on us,
it will surely be the quality experience that is sacrificed
first———the kind of unique experience offered by wilderness.
There will still be available the kind of outdoor experience
that can be enjoyed today at amusement parks on the Fourth
of July, and this may, indeed, he the only kind of outdoor
eXperience available if we race blindly ahead down the road
of “growth and progress.”

WE CAN ONLY GUESS what will happen to the individual
as the pressures of overcrowding increasingly bear
down on him, as the subtle diseases of overcivilization take
their toll on his mind and body. It may he that in the long
run over-pOpulation of our own country will be a grave
threat to the most important freedom of all—the freedom
each person must have to maintain his own integrity, to be
true to his natural self.

Unlike many countries of Europe and Asia that have used
up all their vacant lands, we still have an option in America.
We still have open space and wildlands to preserve—mlands
that still exist in their pristine splendor—wor something
close to it. Let us then make the choice intelligently as free
men considering the welfare of future generations.

I am suggesting that the United States set an example

of how to plan the best relationship of human beings to
their environment, that we give solemn attention to the mat-

ter of developing the optimum man-land ratio—the ratio
which would result not only in the “highest and hest use”
of the land hut the highest and best development of free

men. #

 

Outdoor

Recreation
for
' America

ITERATURE on the subject of outdoor recreation has
L been vastly expanded since the publication early in
1962 of the report of the Outdoor Recreation Re-
sources Review Commission (see RECREATION, March and
April 1962) . The twenty-seven supplementary reports, most
of them based on research conducted by federal agencies,
universities, or private organizations, contain a great fund
of information on many subjects which have previously

OCTOBER, 1963

had little intensive study. They cover a wide range of topics,
such as the number, type, location, and development of rec-
reation areas; user and participant satisfactions; economic
and financial aspects; shoreline and wilderness; hunting
and fishing; and metropolitan problems. Most of them con-
tain much statistical data. Only one or two of them repre-
sent opinions of the authors with respect to various recre-
ation developments and factors. C0pies of these publica-
tions, which would be a valuahle addition to the library of
every recreation and park department, are for sale at the
prices indicated by the Superintendent of Documents, U. S.
Government Printing Office, Washington 25, D. C. Follow-
ing is a brief description of the various publications.

Public Outdoor Recreation Areas—Acreage, Use, Potential.
A description and analysis of all nonurban public designated recrea-
tion areas in the fifty states, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands.
Nearly ten thousand named areas and an additional fifteen thousand
small areas are included, with pertinent data on their acreage, loca-
tion, and management agency. Areas containing more than forty
acres are evaluated and analyzed in terms of visits, use pressures,
major activities, facilities, number of employees, and future expan-

sion potential. Pp. 204. $1.00. (ORRRC Report #1) —>

361

List of Public Outdoor Recreation Areas—1960. Contains the
names of approximately ten thousand recreation areas, grouped by
state and managing agency, and provides data on their acreage and
county location. Additional aggregate data for minor recreation areas,
such as waysides and picnic areas, are included. Pp. 173. $1.00.
(ORRRC Report #2)

Wilderness and Recreation—A Report on Resources, Values,
and Problem. A comprehensive discussion and analysis of wilder-
ness preservation, which contains an inventory of sixty-four areas of
approximately twenty-eight million acres. It discusses traditional
concepts of wilderness, basic legal and administrative considerations
and problems, and an evaluation of the commercial potential of ex-
isting wilderness areas. An analysis of the social and economic char-

aeteristics of wilderness users is based upon a sample survey carried
out in three specified areas. Pp. 352. $1.75. (ORRRC Report #3)

Shoreline Recreation Resources of the United States. Contains
an analysis of the Great Lakes and ocean shoreline of the contiguous
states, and presents a detailed state-by-state summary of quantitative
and qualitative factors affecting their recreation use. It includes a
classification of national shoreline resources, a discussion of prob-
lems of private ownership, and recommendation. Pp. 156. $.75.

(ORRRC Report #4)

The Quality of Outdoor Recreation: As Evideneed by User
Satisfaction. Presents the findings of a study designed to test the
usefulness of user satisfaction as a measure of area quality, based in
part upon a user survey of twenty-four federal, state, and local recre-
ation areas. Data from the survey is summarized and evaluated in
terms of soeio-economic characteristics and activities engaged in.
Field appraisals of various elements which effect quality provide a
framework for relating and assessing the findings. An analysis is
made of the validity of employing expressions of user satisfaction as
a measure of area quality, and the resulting implications for public

policy are discussed. Pp. 95. $.55. (ORRRC Report #5)

Hunting in the United States—Its Present and Future Role.
Examines the forces affecting game sUpply and summarizes a state-
by-state survey of factors influencing hunting in the forty-eight con-
tiguous states. Attention is given to wildlife regulations, limitation of
hunting access, public hunting areas, fee hunting, and shooting
preserves. Prohlems affecting state game agencies are analyzed and

suggested solutions are offered. Pp. 117. $.60. (ORRRC Report #6)

Sport Fishing—Today and Tomorrow. Presents an appraisal of
fishing as a form of recreation in the United States and includes a
state-by-state survey of the problems of supply, status of fishing wa-
ters, and management policies and responsibilities. Pp. 130. $.65.

(ORRRC Report #7)

Potential New Sites for Outdoor Recreation in the Northenst.
Presents the findings of a study designed to determine the existenCe
of potential recreation sites of thirty acres or more, currently in pri-
vate ownership and located in the ten densely populated Northeastern
states. Site potentiality is determined according to land type, recre-
ation suitability, and proximity to major metr0politan concentrations.
Case studies are utilized to illustrate ownership patterns, problems,
history of land transfer, current land use, and availability for public
purchase. The report describes procedures used by and available

to state agencies for land acquisition and developmcnt. Pp. 132. $.65.
(ORRRC Report #8)

Alaska Outdoor Recreation Potential. Appraises the major fac-
tors affecting the deve10pment of Alaska's recreation potential. It
evaluates the present status of recreation, examines the essentials of
sound recreation planning, and concludes with a summary of current
problems and recommendations for future development. Pp. 63. $.40.

(ORRRC Report #9)

Water for Recreation—Values and Opportunities. An analysis
of future water-based recreation in the United States. It relates recre-
ation uses of water to other types of water devel0pment and discusses
the importance of including recreation in the planning of water re-
source projects. The problem of access is discussed, and the effects
of such factors as water quality and reservoir management upon rec-

reation use are analyzed. Pp. 73. $.45. (ORRRC Report #10)

Private Outdoor Recreation Facilities. The first part reports on a
mail survey of private owners of recreation facilities, such as resorts,
dude ranches, campgrounds, ski areas, vacation farms, and resort
hotels, and includes a partial inventory from secondary sources of in-
dustrial recreation areas, including large commercial timber holdings.
The second phase is a qualitative appraisal of sixty-six cases repre-
senting various types of private recreation facilities. Included is a
discussion of such factors as type of specific activities provided,

362

amount of land used, number of visitors, fees charged, problems en-
countered, and plans for expansion. Pp. 154. $1.00. (ORRRC Re-

port #11)

Paying for Recreation Facilities. An analysis of the difficulties
involved in obtaining long-term financing for recreation facilities. The
role of concessionnaires is the principal focus with particular em-
phasis on factors such as federal policy, short season, contract provi-
sion, and general philos0phy. Some consideration is given to state
policies. lncludes eighteen case studies of concession operations 0n
federal lands and the approach of seven selected states. Pp. 93. $.55.

(ORRRC Report #12)

Federal Agencies and Outdoor Recreation. A descriptive analy-
sis of the organizational and administrative structure of federal agen-
cies concerned with outdoor recreation. The study is focused upon
recreation program objectives and policies of the agencies. lmportant
problems encountered are analyzed and Opportunities for more effec-

tive program coordination and cooperation are identified. Pp. 80. $.50.
(ORRRC Report #13)

Directory of State Outdoor Recreation Administration. Pre-
sents a state-by-state description of recreation administration. It is
designed to serve as a directory of state agencies concerned with out-

door recreation, together with a brief description of agency authority,
organization, and programs. Pp. 146. $.75. (ORRRC Report #14)

Open Space Action. Deals with ways and means of acquiring open
space in the fast developing areas of this country. Includes a brief
history of significant federal, state, and local developments in Open
space action, observations and guidelines for Open-space action pro-
grams, and specific recommendations for action by all levels of govern-
ment. An appendix contains examples of federal and state legisla-
tion, tax-abatement measures, easement forms and costs, and plan in-
corporating new devices such as cluster deve10puient. Pp. 119. $.65.

(ORRRC Report #15)

Land Acquisition for Outdoor Recreation—Analysis of Select-
ed Legal Problems. Reviews the constitutional power of state and
local governments to acquire land by purchase or condemnation for
recreation purposes and for related Open space, and the constitutional
power of the federal government to condemn land for such purposes.
The study also examines legal problems involved in acquiring ease-
ments and other less-than-fee rights in land for recreation and Open

Space. Pp. 67. $.45. (ORRRC Report #16)

Multiple-Use of Land nud Water Areas. Discusses multiple-use
both in a statutory and in a management sense and analyzes the re-
lationship of recreation to other uses of land and water. It reviews the
multiple-use concepts of the land-management agencies of the fed-
eral government and includes sections on multiple-use at the state
level, on private land, on multiple-use criteria, and suggestions for
multiple-use management of puhlic lands. Pp. 41. $.35. (ORRRC

Report #17)

A Look Abroad: The Effect of Foreign Travel on Domestic
Outdoor Recreation and A Brief Survey of Ontrloor Recrea-
tion in Six Comttries. Discusses the effect of Americans going
abroad as a suhstitute for major outdoor recreation trips in this coun-
try and the impact upon our own outdoor recreation resources of
foreign travelers coming to this country. It presents travel projections
to the years 1976 and 2000. A second part contains a brief review of

outdoor recreation programs in Great Britain, France, West Germany,
Denmark, The Netherlands, and Japan. Pp. 82. $.50. (ORRRC

Report #18)

National Recreation Survey. Contains the tabular results and
analysis of a nation-wide survey of the outdoor recreation hahits and
preferences of the American pe0ple twelve years of age and over. This
data is derived from four separate samples, each involving approxi-
mately four thousand interviews. Tables show various participation
rates by activity and region, according to age, sex, place of residence,
education, occupation, and race. Estimates are made of expenditures,
proportion of leisure time devoted to outdoor recreation, and other
factors. Descriptive analyses include socio-eeonomic factors associ-
ated with participation in seventeen specified outdoor activities. Pp.

300. $2.00. (ORRRC Report #19)

Participation in Outdoor Recreation: Factors Affecting De-
moml Among American Atlults. Discusses the effect upon par-
ticipation of income, education, occupation, paid vacations, place of
residence, region, sex, age, life cycle, and race. Included are dis-
cussions of outdoor recreation in relation to leisure-time use, vaca-
tion and weekend trips, parks and recreation areas, and a chapter on

camping. The study is based upon 2,759 interviews with a representa-
tive sample of US adults. Pp. 94. $.50. (ORRRC Report #20)

RECREATION

The Future of Outdoor Reereation in Metropolitan Regions of
the United States. One part describes the general characteristics of
outdoor recreation activities and particular problems of metropolitan
residents, including the problem of access. It contrasts present and
future outdoor recreation opportunities against the backdr0p of ex-
panding urbanization. It contains separate studies of five selected
metropolitan regions: New York-New Jersey-Philadelphia, Atlanta,
St. Louis, Chicago, and Los Angeles. The central t0pic in each study
is an analysis of the supply-and-demand aspects of outdoor recrea-

tion. In three volumes: Vol. I, pp. 286, $1.50; Vol. II, pp. 161, $1.75;
Vol. III, pp. 119, $1.00. (ORRRC Report #21)

Trends in Ameriean Living and Outdoor Beer-cation. Contains
a group of essays dealing with the effects of Current social and cul-
tural trends upon future needs and preferences for outdoor recreation.
These essays are focused upon the following t0pics as they relate to
outdoor recreation: historical development, cultural change, demo-
graphic factors, the family, mass communication, physical and mental

health, education, voluntary groups, political institutions, urban
growth, and the planning process. Pp. 257. $1.25. (ORRRC Report

#22)
Projections to the Years 1976 and 2000: Economic Growth,
Population, Labor Forces and Leisure, and Transportation.

Contains a set of four fundamental studies which project the size,

distribution, income, leisure, and mobility of the American popula-.

tion to 1976 and 2000. In addition to national aggregates, attention
is directed to regional and state characteristics. Pp. 510. $2.00.
(ORRRC Report #23)

Eeonomie Studies of Outdoor Reereation. Contains a group of
essays dealing with various economic aspects of outdoor recreation.
Both theoretical and practical approaches are taken to some basic
economic Problems of recreation deve10pment, including those of in-
vestment, pricing, timing, benefit-cost evaluation, public-private re-
lationships, and economic impact. Methods of economic analysis and
evaluation utilized by various federal resource development agencies

are discussed. Pp. 166. $1.00. (ORRRC Report #24)

Public Expenditures for Outdoor Beer-cation. Indicates the total
direct expenditures made hy federal, state, and local governments for
providing outdoor recreation opportunities, facilities, and services dur-
ing the period 1951-60. An analysis is made of the relative amounts
spent within each state and each major census region, as well as
among the agencies concerned, for land acquisition, development,
construction, operation, and maintenance. Appendix tables show de-
tailed data on annual expenditures by level of government, by agency,
and by ohjective. Pp. 161. $1.00. (ORRRC Report #25)
Prospective Demand for Outdoor Reereation. Measures the
needs and preferences of the American pe0ple for a number of out-
door recreation activities. This comprehensive analysis is based on
data obtained from the National Recreation Survey, the commission

inventory, the metr0politan studies, and the essays concerned with
trends and patterns of American life. Pp. 61. $.40. (ORRRC Report

#26)

Outdoor Reereatiou Literature: A Survey. Discusses the prob-
lems of preparing a bibliography on outdoor recreation—the diversity
and relationships of the field—and includes a listing, description,
and assessment of some of the more important references. Two ap-
pendixes contain separate bibliographies on leisure and intergovern-

mental problems. Pp. 137. $.70. (ORRRC Report #27) #
* * * *

WE HAVE INDEED made stupendous progress in
physical equipment to overcome the mysteries
of hsh. We have moved upward from the rude social
level of the willow pole with a butcher-strong line, fixed
with hooks ten for a dime, whose compelling lure was
one segment of an angleworm and whose incantation
was spitting on the bait. Now we have arrived at the
high state of a tackle assembled from the steel of Da-
mascus, the bamboos of Siam, the silk of Japan, the
lacquer of China, the tin of Bangkok, the nickel of Can-
ada, the feathers of Brazil, and the silver of Colorado—
all compounded by mass production at Chicago, Ill-
inois, and Akron, Ohio . . . And I ask you, in the face
of all this overwhelming equipment and progress, is
there any less time between bites?——HERBERT HOOVER

in Fishing for Fun and T0 Wash Your Soul (Random

House) .
:i: =1: * *

OCTOBER. 1963

l
I

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

Ends Bicycle Parking Problems
Permanently and at Low Cost

 
 
  

Orderly, efficient, safe :' 'i ’ "j

parkingin minimumof , i    f 
space. Ends confusion ,‘ "7" g ' ‘ ,
I a ' - ,. .
' «i ‘- . . 51

of haphazard parking. 

AMERICAN APPROVED HEAVY DUTY
ALL-STEEL BICYCLE RACKS

Massively constructed to last a lifetime. Frames are heavy 1%"
new structural steel pipe rigidly locked with Certified Malleable
Fittings through-bolting all members. Spacers are %" steel plpe
snugly fitted in drilled sockets and heavily riveted to the center
mains. Hot-Dip Galvanized throughoutfor permanent rustproofing.
Sizes from 5-ft. to 30-ft. long, single or double face, capacity from
5 to 66 bikes. Bases, portable or for permanent concrete setting.

WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED llTERATURE AND PRICES

AMERICAN

PLAYGROUND DEVICE (0., ANDERSON, IND.

WORLD'S LARGEST MANUFACTURERS OF FINE PARK. PICNIC.
PLAYGROUND, SWIMMING POOL AND DRESSING ROOM EQUIPMENT

HERE’S A BRAND-NEW
INDOOR SPORT THAT
EVERYONE CAN ENJOY!

America’s National Pastime

 

Brought to life indoors—with all
the thrills and excitement of the big
league. As much fun to watch as it
is to play.

  

Here's real, authentic baseball! Players choose up sides
. . . Visitor and Home teams are established . . . an
umpire is selected . . . players determine rotating pitch-
ing and batting order . . . score is kept. Spectators,
and players alike, root their teams on to victory. Just
like being in the ball park!

For complete information, write:

ANDERSON MANUFACTURING COMPANY
NORWAY, MICHIGAN

363

PROVIDENCE TAKES A HAND

EVELYN D. BALDONI

TRAIL-BLAZING delinquency pro-
A gram, pioneered by the Provi-

dence, Rhode Island, Recreation
Department, has resulted in a federal
grant of $136,024 to help the city map
out preventive methods, both educa-
tional and recreational. An additional
allocation to extend the study another
six months may be made after a review
of the first year’s work. John P. Cronin,
director of recreation and 'aia‘rihé‘f'bi
the Providence Youth Progress Board,
to which the allocation was made, says
the principal purpose of the study will
be to develop a plan to meet situations
existing in South Providence.

With the enactment of the federal
Juvenile Delinquency .Bill (Juvenile
Delinquency and Youth 0§enses Act 7,
1961, Public Law 87-274), Rhode Is-
land Congressman John F ogarty felt
that the city would definitely be eligible
for federal funds. The act has an an-
nual ten million-dollar appr0priation.

Beginning in 1945, the Providence
Recreation Department has operated the
Providence Junior Police Camp in Point
Judith, Rhode Island. The camp site
was made possible by ex-Covernor Den-
nis J. Roberts during his tenure as
mayor of Providence. The recreation
department has worked closely with the
Junior Police officers, the Family Court,
the Rhode Island Boys Training School,
and the Probation Department. Most
of the boys who attend the camp are in
lower economic circumferences, in the
so-called “twilight zone of dclinquen-
cy,” and are, or have heen, on proba-
tlon.

Junior Police officers and the camp
director and staff give special attention
to youngsters who have been under their
guidance in the city. Thus begins a
process of rehabilitation which is con-
tinued in the Providence recreation
centers by the field worker system estab-

lished in 1954. There are five field

 

MISS BALDONI is assistant director of
recreation in Providence, Rhode Island.

364

workers with special abilities and back-
ground in youth work. They encourage
boys reluctant to take part in organized
recreation to come into the recreation
centers, under the guidance of the rec-
reation staff. The field workers are on
duty in the evening in areas wherc in-
dices of juvenile delinquency are high-
est. They keep in constant touch with
youngsters under their guidancc and
also visit their homes in an effort to
assist parents who have difficulty in con-
trolling their children.

In 1959, Cleo LaChapelle, a recrea-
tion field worker and a prevention co-
ordinator for the Rhode Island Family
Court, began a program which went one
step further. Members of the Family
Court and the Providence Recreation
Department had long believed that
many children need not appear before
the court if they receive guidance at a
younger age. Therefore, Mr. LaCha-
pelle, in cooperation with Chief Judge
Francis McCabe of the Family Court
and Recreation Director John Cronin,
organized a pre-delinquency program,
the South Side Project.

ACH WEEK, Mr. LaChapelle checks
with the director of the Juvenile
Bureau. Lieutenant William E. May,
who gives him the names of all hoys and
girls from South Providcnce hrought
to the station during the week. These
youngsters are told to report to Mr. La-
Chapelle at the Plain Street Recreation
Center. Through conferences with these
children, their parents, social agencies.
and the recreation center directors, Mr.
LaChapelle begins weekly counselling
and possible rehabilitation for these
boys and girls in the “twilight zone of
delinquency.”

In 1960, the Brown University Youth
Council began working with Mr. La-
Chapelle in South Providence. Each
week, the Youth Council members.
Brown and Pembroke students, meet
with boys and girls who are in the pre-
delinquency stage by virtue of minor

offenses. These meetings can be visits
to the recreation centers or activities
away from the centers such as trips to
professional and college ball games,
movies, bowling, and educational tours.

In July, 1961 the South Providence
Youth Board was created and immedi-
ately began serving this neighborhood’s
youthful population. This board investi-
gates, evaluates, and services problem
children. By regular weekly meetings,
hoard members share their knowledge
of multi-problem families, individual
cases and circumstances indigenous to
the neighborhood. The board convenes
weekly at the Plain Street Recreation
Center and is composed of Mr. LaCha-
pelle and representatives from thc
Providence Police Juvenile Bureau,
State Division of Probation and Parole,
State Division of Vocational Rehabili-
tation, South Side Boys Club, Provi-
dence School Department, State Divi-
sion of Public Assistance, Providence
Fire Department Prevention Bureau,
Parent Council, Plain Street Recreation
Center, Brown University Youth Guid-
ance, and Bernadette Plunnner, board
secretary.

The board met forty-eight times and
processed 116 cases during the period
from July 1, 1961 to June 30, 1962. Dur-
ing this time, the Rhode Island Family
Court reports that fifty-two South Provi-
dence children werc
found to he wayward or delinqucnt for
a rate of 13.1 per onc thousand children,
eight to seventeen years of age inclusive.
Iliisareprcsents a sharp decline of
thirty-nine cases over the previous ycar
when the court rcportcd ninety-one ad-
judications for a rate of 21.9 per one
thousand children.

neighborhood

PROVIDENCE has also embarked upon
the deve10p1nent of a fiftecn-year
master plan for the social, economic
and physical development and renewal
of the city. The basis for the program
is being prepared through contracts let
by the city for the Study of the Social

RECREATION

Federal grant helps city explore
the twilight zone of delinquency

Foundations of Urban Renewal being
carried out by the RhOde Island Council
Of Community Services, the Economic
Foundations of Urban Renewal being
conducted by the Economics Depart-
ment Of Brown University; and the co-
ordination Of these studies with physical
planning studies being developed by
Blair-Stein Associates, a city and
regional planning firm. The entire proj-
ect is the responsibility of the city’s
urban-renewal coordinator, located in
the office of the mayor. The community
renewal program will provide much in-
formation which can be used in a youth
development demonstration. It also
provides a dynamic force which will
help to assure the success Of such a
demonstration.

Providence has many problems com-
mon tO metropolitan areas across the
nation. A demonstration in Providence
would likely be Of interest tO cities of
approximately the same size. Indeed,
there are many more cities in the United
States the size of Providence than there
are extremely large cities. While geo-
graphically compact, Providence has an
abundance of national and ethnic
groups which are reproduced elsewhere
in Rhode Island and the country. In
contrast with, this heterogeneity, there
is stability in RhOde Island’s pOpula-
Over half of the babies born in
Rhode Island are born in one hospital,
Providence Lying In Hospital, world’s
largest private maternity hospital.
RhOde Island provides a natural social
laboratory setting. Many research per-
sonnel and facilities exist in Providence
in community planning settings and in
the area’s several colleges and universi-

tion.

ties, including Brown, mentioned above.

Representatives of the following
services have indicated their interest in
the delinquency prevention project: the
employment and training services of the
Rhode Island Department of Labor; the
special educational services of the
Rhode Island Board Of Education and
of the Providence School Department;
the income maintenance and family
counseling services of the RhOde Island
Department of Social Welfare; the
family-counseling service Of family-
service agencies; public and voluntary
child welfare and adoption services;

 

public and private psychiatric services;
special group work and recreation
services of the Providence Department
Of Recreation and of the many private
agencies Operating at the neighborhood
level in Providence; the services of the
Family Court; the services Of public and
private physical and mental health agen-
cies including the Rhode Island Depart-
ment Of Health, the Providence Depart-
ment of Health; the Providence District
Nursing Association, and others; the
services of the state and local police
departments and correctional agencies.

* t i *

LCH DATA has been gathered which
documents the incidence and
prevalence Of problems facing Provi-
dence’s young people. In addition to
regular statistical reporting undertaken
by the local police department, and state
and local departments Of health, recrea-
tion, education, employment, labor, and
social welfare, documentation has been
carried out by the RhOde Island Council
Of Community Services as part Of
Providence’s comprehensive community
renewal program. Some seventy prob-
lem entities manifested by families and
individuals have provided the basis for
the social pathology index. These
problems are grouped as problems Of
health, provision, family
maintenance and child care, education
and recreation, behavior and conduct.
While the city’s established and
experimental youth services indicate
Providence’s widespread community in-
terest in youth problems, it is evident
that such problems persist and multiply
in the urban area. The nature of these
problems requires that new ways need tO
be found to integrate service programs
for effective intervention. New ways
need to be found to unravel the knotty
problem Of youth entangled in the cul-
ture of dependency. New designs are
needed which will get at basic societal
prohlems contributing to the lack of Op-
portunity faced by many young people.
New ways Of intervening in the basic
value framework of the “gray areas”
need to be found. A restructuring Of ex-
isting community institutions may be
called for. The development Of new
community institutions may be needed.
The federal grant will help Providence
blaze further trails. # ‘

material

URS IS THE CHOICE: Either we shall be complacent or we shall take action, knowing that delinquency
O is a social cancer which can destroy the fabric of our society. Either we say this problem does not con-
cern us or it is of utmost importance to our family, to our children, to our community, and to the future of
our nation. Either we shall be concerned with the superficial symptoms of delinquency or with its basic
causes. The answer which we shall give will have a decisive impact not only upon today but upon tomor-
row and the day after tomorrow, to a great extent will determine both the structure and the content of
American civilization in the years to come. FREDERICK MAYER in Our Troubled Youth (Basic Books).

OCTOBER, 1963

365

ITHIN the desert buff walls of
California’s largest penitenti-
ary, on the third floor of what

is called the “old industrial building”
but which also houses the gymnasium,
there is a dramatic workshop recently
acclaimed one of the finest in the coun-
try. San Quentin Prison is situated on
Point San Quentin, eighteen miles north
of San Francisco. Although it is one of
the nation’s oldest and largest prisons,
San Quentin has one of the most mod-
ern correctional programs in the coun—
try. It offers constructive training, aca-
demic, and guidance programs—and
an extensive schedule of organized rec-
reation.

The San Quentin Drama Workshop
operates under the general direction of
the prison recreation department, yet
all of its productions are completely in-
mate handled. The core of the group
consists of several inmates who are
serving life terms. These men alternate
in directional and acting chores. The
group has been in operation since 1957.
It has produced such plays as Twelve
Angry Men, The Caine Mutiny Court
Martial, Mister Roberts, Waiting F or

Godot, Inherit The Wind and People
Need People. The last named was an
original three-act play adapted from a
telefilm by Henry F. Greenberg. The

 

MR. APOSTOL has been supervisor of
recreation at San Quentin Prison, San
Quentin, California, for the past four-
teen years.

 

play was adapted and directed by in-
mate Cary J. Johannesson and featured
inmates Rick Cluchey and Stan McGin-
nis in the principle roles. All three men
are serving lifeterms and have been
with the group since its inception.

The inmates are completely in charge
of all technical aspects of all plays. They
receive help from the maintenance and
educational departments of the institu-
tion, and all publicity is handled by the
local prison paper. The institution
maintains control over the group, but
takes an active part only in an advisory
capacity.

HIS DRAMA GROUP serves a twofold
T purpose. Not only does it provide
an excellent creative outlet for the men,
along with serving as a leisure-time ac-
tivity, but the group has proved to be a
splendid emotional outlet with marked
therapeutic values. The men learn to
work together and accept a responsibil-
ity toward the show they are doing and
toward one another.

Plays are chosen by the entire inmate
body of the group. Women are not al-
lowed to participate, nor are the in-
mates allowed to impersonate, which
presents a great limitation on the selec-
tion of material. Plays that are easily
adapted to all male casts, such as Of
Mice and Men and Room Service, are
given first consideration over the stand-
ard all-male cast plays.

Once a play has been decided upon,
two alternates are picked, and the three

I M

plays are presented to the warden’s staff
meeting for production consideration.
The warden’s staff consists of the vari-
ous free personnel department heads
and the prison’s three associate ward-
ens. After the warden’s staff has ap-
proved the plays, the group swings into
action. The director and production
manager, who have been previously
picked, select their assistants before
holding cast call. A poster is drawn up
and placed on the recreation yard or
“big yard” announcing a cast call sign-
up. Response is immediate, and sign-
ups are accepted for all jobs ranging
from actors to ushers. The cast call is
open to all men in the prison except
those with a maximum or close custody
classification.

After the play has been cast by the
director and his assistant, rehearsals

get under way. The plays are rehearsed
four nights a week from 6:20PM to

9:20PM in the gymnasium. All mem-
bers of the cast are placed on the eve-
ning recreation list, and for this activity
they must have full possession of their
privileges. In other words, any inmate
who is found guilty of any infraction of
a prison rule, and which results in the
loss of his privilege card, is withdrawn
from the production immediately.
Weekends are reserved for building
sets, which are constructed and painted
in the rehearsal area. The stage crew
consists of six or seven inmates, which

includes the stage manager and scenic
designer.

Prison, rehabilitation.
program offers a
theater workshop

SAN QUENTIN

JOHN N. APOSTOL

366

RECREATION

HE PLAYS are staged in the prison’s

north dining hall, which houses
'the only stage. They are presented on
Thursday and Friday evenings, and
Saturday mornings of any given week.
'Thursday night, the prison’s seven-day
workers along with the men who live
in the North Honor Block attend the
play. On Friday night, the employees
and their families attend along with
specially invited members of the Bay
Area press. The men who live in the
West Honor Block attend on this eve-
ning also. Saturday morning, closing
day, is reserved for the entire inmate
population. All in all, over the three-
day period, the play is viewed by over
twenty-five hundred inmates and three
hundred employees and guests.

The drama workshop does not stop
functioning after a play has closed. It
is cut down to a core of not more than
twenty inmates and a workshop pro-
gram is 0'otten under way. The more
experienced actors and technical men
conduct classes in the various phases of
stagecraft from directing to set con-
struction. In this way, new actors and
men interested in the technical aSpects
of the production are found and
groomed for a spot on the drama work-

shop’s production staff.

During the workshop period, inmate-
written plays are read and rehearsed
along with the more difficult modern
plays such as Waiting For Godot and
Krapp’s Last Tape, et cetera. This exper-

   
    

‘—

OCTOBER, 1963

Mm

In true 0§-Broadway tradition, the San Quentin Drama
WorkshOp players experiment with far-out avant-garde ma-
terial. A bone left, actor and tape recorder perform. Krapp’s

imentation widens the scope of the work-
shop to cover every aspect of the
theater from the actual writing of the
script to its performance. In this way,
the inmate makes good use of his leisure
time and is able to form leisure activity
habits that will greatly help in his re-
adjustment to the free world. Occa-
sionally, workshop plays are shown to
various interested groups within the
prison, such as the high-school classes of
the education department and the men
in the vocational training courses.
Through this, the men in the drama
workshop program not only spend en-
joyable leisure hours but form a basic
knowledge of the art, and, upon their
return to society, are prepared to be-
come valuable additions to any local
theater, either professional or non-
professional.

ONLY RECENTLY has the group come
to be known on a larger than
statewide scale. There are several
prisons in the state of California with
drama groups. What sets the San Quen-
tin group apart is its lack of active as-
sistance by free personnel. Various dig-
nitaries in the entertainment world
would have volunteered their assistance
on a technical level, but the group has
wisely turned it down saying, “This is
our originality. This is what makes us
different. Why destroy it?”

Recently motion-picture and TV

actor Lee Marvin came to the prison

- ' m

with writers Henry F. Greenberg and
Dr. Harry A. Wilmer“ to view the cast
call for Mr. Greenberg’s television
drama People Need People. Mr. Marvin
starred in the TV version which was a
strong Emmy contender last year. After
viewing the cast call, and then returning
later in the month to view a full-fledged
rehearsal, he had this to say about
prison dramatics at San Quentin, “It’s a
highly creative workshop and the fellas
go at it like a bunch of pros.”

The drama workshop has yet another
important function. All of the men who
participate in the group are active in a
rehabilitation program. They all attend
regular therapy sessions, and many of
the men participate in extra-vocational
and educational programs, not to men-
tion their regular prison work assign-
ment. The group greatly helps them
adjust to the responsibilities and ob-
ligations they will face upon their re-
turn to a free society. Drama at San
Quentin has always been, and will con-
tinue to be, a very worthwhile and con-
structive recreation activity. #

*Dr. Harry A. Wilmer wrote the book Social
Psychiatry in Action from which the teleplay
People Need People was adapted. He also
works at the prison on a part-time basis.

0 See also "Drama ls Recreation,"
special supplement, Recreation, Feb—
ruary 1962 and “The Theater as
Teacher," Recreation, December 1961.

—Ed.

n-

- I»

Last Tape. Center, it is di§icult to “upstage” anyone when
you’re confined in a trash barrel as demanded in Endgame.
Right,men had the courtroom experience for Inherit the Wind.

36'?

A REPORTER’S NOTEBOOK

 

Cmmnunity Bewitched
WHEN Shakespeare said, “I can call

spirits from the vasty deep” he
had nothing on the sponsors of the an-
nual Halloween Window Painting Pro-
ject in Evansville, Indiana. Each year
weird demons, spirits, boogymen, and
hobgoblins are called forth in a tradi-
tional Halloween Window Painting
Program that is a blend of community
harmony and cooperation. The pub-
lic school art department, the Parent-
Teacher Association, and the Public
Recreation Commission work with five
different shopping centers to coordinate
and plan this fall festival. Each co-
sponsor has specific responsibilities that
contribute to the success of the pro-
gram. The project is not promoted as
a contest. No prizes are awarded and
the pictures are not judged. Each par-
ticipant (almost five hundred in 1962) ,
ranging from grades six through twelve,
receives a certificate of appreciation
for his participation.

In addition to furnishing the win-
dows for painting, each merchant
shares in the cost of materials used
in the project. The cost for paint ma-
terials, cups, and certificates awarded
is pro-rated according to the number
of windows painted in each sh0pping
center. The total cost per team (from
one to three members) is approximate-
ly $.65 per picture. The recreation
commission serves as general coordina-
tor for the project. It duplicates all
rules and regulations, contacts the mer-
chants associations, sets up a central
paint station at each area, marks and
numbers each window to be painted,
and, in general, supervises the entire
project.

The paint formula used has heen re-
vised several times. To make three gal-
lons of paint, start with a half gallon of
water and a gallon of liquid starch, mix
in four pounds of dry tempera, blend
in ten l4-ounce boxes of Bon Ami, then
add four 12-ounce packages of pow-
dered starch. This makes a rather
thick pasty substance easily poured
into small six-ounce cups for distribu-

368

tion to the painters who use ice cream
sticks for further mixing and blending
by the students. In addition to the basic
colors such as red, green, blue, and

 

yellow, use ample quantities of black,
orange, violet, brown, and white. One
gallon each of black, orange, and
brown plus one half gallon of the other
colors will paint approximately thirty
pictures 36-by-48 inches in size. The
paint will chip or flake from windows
that have a film or residue left on them
after cleaning. To avoid this, windows
may be wiped with vinegar watcr.
During the four years the program
has operated, many other refinements
have been made regarding supervision,
size of pictures, the maximum numhers
of painters per team, time schedules,
transportation, the safety of painters
and protection of merchants property.
A complete set of rules and regulations
will be mailed upon request—JAMES
A. PETERSON, Superintendent of Rec-
reation, Public Recreation Commission,

2 S. E. 8th Street, Evansville, Indiana.

Photo Exchange

A photography display entitled “This
is Los Angeles” was presented to Ki-
yoshi Sugito, mayor of Nagoya, Japan,
and Tetsujiro Matsuno, vice-chairman
of the Nagoya City Assembly, during
the first annual photo exchange between
Los Angeles and her sister-city, Na-
goya. The photographs presented to
the Japanese representatives tell the
story of the Los Angeles Photography
Center and Camera Days. The city of
Nagoya is trying to establish a photo
recreation program similar to the one

at the Los Angeles Photo Center. Clar-
ence Inman, director of the center, said
a photo exhibit presented by the Japa-
nese representatives to Los Angeles in-
cludes thirty-six large prints of scenes
taken in Nagoya.

New Directions
SENIOR CITIZENS of the Red Hook Day
Center, Brooklyn, New York, serv-
ing Red Hook Houses, a low-rent pub-
lic housing development of the New
York City Housing Authority, are ex-
perimenting with arts and crafts and
some of the results are noteworthy in-
deed. The center is a mecca for older
persons residing in the develOpment.
Ages range from 58 to 106! The cen-
ter is staffed and directed by the’ New
York City Department of Welfare.

The majority of the center’s artists.
according to Executive Dircctor Mrs.
Nancy E. Rubinstein, had never touched
a paint brush until their introduction to
the art class; others had previously dab-
bled in painting and now have the lei-
sure time to enjoy painting at greater
length. Much of their work reflects
their backgrounds and their personal
memories and reactions to things
around thcm.

An eighty-six-year-old participant
has introduced a new craft to the cen-
ter—decorating bottles with plastiline
and shells. A husband-and-wife team
are daily workers in the crafts room.
He works on masks and ceramics. while
she has learned handloom weaving at
the center and leads other women in
adding to their newly acquired skills.

A former painter, aged eighty-four,
has transfcrred his skills to leather
work and has created many novel pieces
in leather purses and other novelties.
Another prize pupil, aged seventy-six,
though severely incapacitated by arth-
ritis, manages to hammer out fascinat-
ing original designs in c0ppcr tooling
and shellcraft work. She also designs
and makes novel jewelry.

Several of the regular attendants at
the center sewing classes, who have
spent many years as sewing-machine

RECP-EATION

operators, 110w make attractive aprons,
shopping bags, and other items. Others
include a semi-retired nurse, with a
_ natural hent for painting, who does
portraits and landscapes; a former do-
mestic and factory worker, who despite
an eye ailment, works in ceramics, tile,
and painting; a former barber who be-
gan with primitives but, after visiting
the Museum of Modern Art and the
Guggenheim Museum under guidance
from the center, now does abstracts;
and a seventy-two-year-old, a native of
Mexico. who participates in the work
of the gardening and hospital commit-
tees. does outstanding work in weav-
ing handmade rugs, and also works in
leather.

Birthday Gift

A plaque commemorating the found-
ing of the city of Los Angeles was
placed at the base of the statue of Felipe
de Neve in Plaza Park in celebration
of the 182nd birthday of the city on
September 4». The plaque is a gift from
the peOple of Chihuahua, Mexico, in
remembrance of de Neve, who is buried
in that city. De Neve and a group of
settlers marched from the mission at
San Gabriel on September 4», 1781,
across the sage to a river where they
established El Pueblo de Nuestra Sen-
ora la Reina de Los Angeles de Porciun-
cula—the village which is now the third

largest city in the United States.

Notes Off the Cuff

0 Awards for, imaginative designs in
steel structures were recently given to
two recreation facilities by the Ameri-
can lnstitute of Steel Construction. The
gibbon cage at the Oakland, California,
zoo was cited for its “playful design.”
Also honored was the Aldrich Recrea-
tion Arena in Ramsey County, Minne-
sota.

0 Ever been on a raw fish committee?
At the annual luau of the Recreation
Association of Hawaii the following
committees were established for the
festivity: Pig and Potato, Chicken,
Poi, Lomi Salmon, and one to take
charge of Raw Fish and Et Ceteras.

o A "do-it-yourself” project has been
initiated for the deer, buffalo, and other
animals at the Griffith Park Zoo in Los
Angeles hy setting up “curry combs”
for them to groom themselves against

OCTOBER, 1963

—telephone poles wrapped with yards
of rope. The animals can rub and
scratch to their hearts’ content, thereby
removing loose hair when they are
shedding, and even applying their own
insect repellent and medication which
has heen poured on the ropes.

o A han on spike heels is in effect in
numerous business places bccause main-
tenance men cannnot cope with the dam-
age done to floors by the knife-like
edges of the super-slim heels now so
fashionable. Airlines report that the
heels also “wafHe” the aluminum floor
panels of jet liners.

0 La Roulette, the Montreal Parks De-
partment’s itinerant theatre-on-wheels,

presented during its summer program a
Renard fabliau or fable in verse from

the Middle Ages inspired by illustra-
tions in the Duc de Berry’s famous
prayerbook.

PEOPLE IN THE NEWS

In Georgia, a ten-member recreation
commission has been appointed by
Governor Carl E. Sanders 'in accord-
ance with the establishment of the com-
mission by the 1963 General Assembly.
Commission members are: Mrs. W. A.
Bowen, member, Statesboro Recrea-
tion Board; Charles C. Perry, Tifton,
a retired Georgia Power Company of-
ficial; J. W. (Bud) Stone, Crisp
County recreation director; the Rev-
erend Bobby Baggott, pastor of the
First Baptist Church, Newnan; Tom
Shirley, director of recreation, Deca-
tur; Jim Abbott, Louisville attorney
and member, Jefferson County Board
of Education; Frank Hohgood, Cal-
houn investment broker; Verne Pick-
ren, Folkston; Luke L. Rustom, Sr.,
head coach and athletic director, Young

Harris College; and William R.

Tiller, Lincolnton businessman and

farmer.

Reynold Carl-
son, professor of

and

chairman of the de-

recreation

partment of recrea-
tion at Indiana
University, was the
1963 recipient of

the Frederick Bachman Lieber Award
for excellence in teaching. The award

 

is given each year to an Indiana Uni-

t-ersity faculty member for inspired,
competent, stimulating teaching. Only
nine others in the university have been
so honored and Mr. Carlson is the first
in the field of recreation. Chairman of
the National Recreation Association
National Advisory Committee on Rec-
reation Research, Mr. Carlson is the co-
author of two recent books, Outdoor
Education and Recreation in American

Life (see RECREATION, June 1963).

The Reverend R. Harold Hipps is
the first direct0r of fellowship and rec-
reational life and chairman of the re-
source staff for recreation and the arts
in Christian education for the Board
of Education of the Methodist Church,
with headquarters in Nashville, Ten-
nessee. The resource staff will include
specialists in recreation, art, architec-
ture, crafts, camping, dance, drama,
and music. Mr. Hipps will give direc-
tion to this special area of the church’s
ministry for the whole of Methodism
around the world. Before assuming his

new duties on September 1, Mr. Hipps
had served as minister of education of

the West Market Street Methodist
Church in Greensboro, North Carolina,
for fourteen years.

Dr. Max Kaplan has been named aca-
demic dean of Bennett College, Mill-
brook, New York. Dr. Kaplan came to
Bennett from Boston University where
he had been director of the Arts Center
of the School of Fine and Applied Arts
since 1957. Dr. Kaplan is the author
of numerous articles and nine books,

many of them on music and leisure, in-
cluding Leisure in America.

 

IN MEMORIAM

 

0 DR. GOLDEN ROMNEY, dean of the
College of Physical Education and Rec-
reation at Washington State University
in Pullman, died in August at the age
of sixty. Dr. Romney had been dean at
the university since 1950, when he left
a similar post at Oswego State College,
New York.

0 JOHNSON D. MCMAHON, an attorney,
died in Rome, New York, recently. Mr.
McMahon was a sponsor of the Na-
tional Recreation

1946-62.

Association from

369’

TRANSLUC ENT PANE L5

2%?

I

     
    
 
       
   

I.
.
.ll

' . 3!: t'_

   

.‘t'

 

-%

-09.“. .

FOLDAWAY THEATER

OVERALL COVER
DETAIL 0F FABRIC STAPLEO

/ EOGING STRIP ...,.--.;‘ ‘  7.
(From overoII       ‘
r cover fabric) 2 _‘;-¢_..'.'" ¢  -‘-'":'-   .
. gyaighgavlu;gh§gg;
STAPLES , =E’iiu‘?f%piw€"“iTHTa
  .335» ‘:'~"."';'1v:'-t‘~."  -. ‘ -.‘.’”-‘  ' ;
. J  -. - 419w. m?“3=z.«-- ,5? .. .. -' '
H ‘ a.  “.61. 55;. {in 4:14.313}: ‘1‘. yhh‘ . r
.. '.~ 332-” .'-..'2-...~"*“"-“‘$"->"W§I'I' 5315;:  I;
-r ' Vu?:uxdyggaaar.waf,fsij ERR} f?
[I ‘- .f I  “it  a I . z-g; ‘_   2‘:::_.-‘.__’.I .
I -M*FV?‘LJ?.1mw“Wy5.. ' unwra‘l
' n .  “~33. . 4‘” I. ..‘_ I." I. ‘ .‘ " I‘ “Y.
I ".‘h :5; ‘. ‘ ‘ Idiiz: :1 ~ J" ‘ . u . . I". , ‘ ‘ '
o : ~I f '1 . t
’r . .‘1 ‘9'?) ' . m .0 .0
i H

  

      
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
 
 
   

   
 
 
   
   

  
   

FRAME
CONSTRUCTED
0F1"x2"

BATTENS

HINGE STRIPS 0F

OVERALL COVER

FABRIC ATTACHED

TO EITHER SIDE
OF FRAME

A = UNDE RSIOE

\q;

KRAFT PAPER
STAPLEO T0 EOGE
cover fabric}

\ \ DETAIL 0F
HINGING

370 IIECREATTON

       
        

EDGING STRIPS

{From ovemll

 
 

 

JAMES HULL MILLER

screens can serve as wing pieces, defining the play-
ing area and forming sheltered areas to the sides,
and as a background piece, with translucent panels, creating
stage decor by luminous color washes. The screens are self-
supporting by virtue of their angular deployment. With
several varieties of screens, it is possible to represent room
interiors, building exteriors, arcades and pavilions, the lat-
ter a most useful three-dimensional unit of great stability.
The screens are not difficult to construct; the materials
are inexpensive. The joining and covering of the screens
are parts of a single process, the covering fabric being used
also for the mechanics of the double-folding action, in the
manner of Japanese folding screens. In constructing a
screen, the object is to create a frame of uniform thickness,
so it is necessary to miter the corners and employ the narrow
seating strips for the internal framing members. It takes
a little practice to assemble the frames neatly and accurately
and I recommend that someone familiar with woodworking
and shop equipment assist with the initial project. I use 3,4”-
by-1%” pine or spruce battens and eight-penny, very thin
resin-coated box nails. The frame should then be covered
with opaque cloth or paper. I use a seventy-pound Kraft
paper, purchased'by the roll, thirty-six inches wide.
The best covering material for all around use is dyed

S THEATER can be created with folding screen sets. The

MR. MILLER is a theater design consultant in Shreveport,
Louisiana. He has worked in both the professional and ed-
ucational phases of theater since 1936. He is interested in
the development of new theater styles and new forms in thea-
ter architecture. The illustrations are taken from Little
Theatres fron1 Modest Spaces (Bulletin 107) with permis-
sion of the Hub Electric Company, 2255 West Grand Ave-
nue, Chicago 12. Copies of this bulletin are available free
upon request from Hub Electric.

OCTOBER, 1963

KRAFT PAPER “‘
STAPLED ‘
T0 EDGES

STRIPPING T0

BOTH EDGES 4" x 10" CLOTH

- STRIPS AS HINGES

0".-

DETAIL OF TIMBER JOINT

Drama is another
activity for your
multi-purpose room!

3

   

:—

I

FINAL
COVER
FABRIC

STAPLED

 T0 EDGE

1

burlap. which may he purchased for around $.35 per yard
wholesale in bolts from twenty-five to fifty yards. My own
source of supply is L. Richard 8* Company, 418 North Lea-
vitt Street, Chicago 12. Burlap has several advantages over
other fabrics: its rough texture looks well under lights, sta-
ples bury themselves in the texture, and the mechanics of
hinging seem less obvious. Another material is denim, now
available in many colors and patterns. I would recommend
using no materials of a weave and weight lighter than Indian

Head.

An opaque folding screen set consists of a series of light
frames covered with textured fabric, and jointed with cloth
flaps of the same fabric in the manner of the Japanese fold-
ing screen. Three-inch strips of the covering material seal
the vertical edges of the frames. Then nine- or ten-inch-long
hinging flaps are cut from four-inch strips of the covering
material. Place the frames side by side, lay out the hinging
pieces and staple them alternately, the flap to one frame,
the next to the other, and so on. Then turn the frames over,
pull Up the flaps through the common joining crack, and
repeat the stapling-down process.

The folding joint is now complete, and all that remains
is to staple down the overall covering material. Preferably,
start with the selvage edge along one long side, then staple
the opposite long side, starting from the center and working
out, turning a small amount of excess width under as you
go. After the perimeter of the fabric is secured in this fash-
ion, the burlap can he neatly creased by passing a smooth
object along the edge. Never take the overall covering fabric
around an edge, unless it be the vertical leading edge of a
folding screen set. Obviously the t0p and bottom edges of
the screens should have no fahric covering. I have found
the Swingline #101 staple gun ideal for this work. lt does
not cost very much ($4.95) and it does not last very long,
but the staples (5/16" recommended) are thin and the
handle of the gun does not blister the hand.

If one desires to change the color, or use plain burlap,
the screens may be sprayed without destroying the texture.
My favorite paint is a masonry paint, available in many
rich earth colors. ln the South, the reader is probably fa-
miliar with MoPaCote, an acrylic product of the Mobile
Paint Company. This paint dries very fast and equipment
can be cleaned in warm water. Application of color by spray
is particularly useful when adding detail. For example, takc
a berry bush. A trunk is cut into one stencil sheet, several
gnarled limbs into another, a cluster of leaves, another, and
the berries themselves into yet another. With these simple
stencils a whole forest of berry bushes can he applied to a
set of screens (even by children). I have also seen some
very clever detail brushwork on dyed hurlap.

NOW AM) THEN one may wish to use wallpaper itself ap-
- plied directly to the screen. This requires a slightly
different technique in preparing the frame and assembling
the screen. Most wallpaper comes in rolls eighteen inches
wide, so assuming a total screen width of thirty—six inches,
additional framing pieces must be added down the center of
the frame to receive the staples along the vertical mid-joint.

372

The wallpaper is applied over the Kraft paper and prior to
the placing of the edging strips. Care must be taken with
the edging strip, the raw edge must be turned under, and a
straight guide line followed. The hinges must also be stapled
down carefully, with the raw edges turned under and folded
flush with the edging strip below them.

The framing of the screens is somewhat different for those
carrying translucent cloth panels. ln order to obtain rigid-
ity l frequently insert quarter-inch solid plyboard panels
into the lower part of the frame, although this area can be
braced and covered in the regular manner. The purpose
of the bottom panel is to screen the light source from the
viewer. For the translucent panel material I prefer a good
quality fine-cotton dress fabric, such as the Bates line, in
an off-white tint. Fruit of the Loom and Cotton d’Oro are
more inexpensive substitutes. Since this cloth must be
stretched rather taut it is esscntial to avoid synthetics such
as nylon and rayon which have a tendency to rip under con-
tinued tension. Color is applied by floodlights from the
rear. By brushing the cheaper translucent cloths with lamp
dips, lacquer, and other dyes, it is possible to achieve somc
very beautiful backgrounds of a luminous quality. (In the
October 1962 issue of RECREATION an article describes how
patterns can be projected onto the translucent cloths, thus
adding even more versatility to these sets of screens.)

ONE OF THE MOST USEFUL screens is the arch unit. The

most diHicult part of the assembly is the application of
the ovcrall covering fabric in the area of the arch itself.
Of necessity, a great deal of stapling will be done about the
perimctcr of the arch curve and the method of construction
uses thc same soft battens as employed in constructing the
framc itself. ln applying the covering fahric, stretch a
rectangular piece over the entirc arch and upper area, tem-
porarily securing it also near the perimeter of the arch. Cut
the excess material away, leaving about an inch from the
arch perimeter, snip this at several points, then luck the
raw edge under as you staple down onto the arch edge. lt
is very easy to accumulate unwanted slack, and it may take
a little time to dcvelop a knack for covering these arch units.
Where a numbcr of folding screen units must be joined
together or single pieces inserted between sets, use %"-by-
2” narrow butt hinges with pins removed and nails inserted
for temporary attachments.

With these amazingly flexible folding screens one needs
only a flat floor to create an environment suitable for cven
the most dramatic programs. These screens are both the
theatre itself and the elements of stage decor necessary for
a particular play. The screens are self-supporting by virtue
of their angular deployment. The sizes most useful for youth
programs range from 2’-by-7’, 23/;’-by-7’, 3’-by-8’, to til/2’-
by-9'. However, 1 have many folding screen sets made up
of 3’-l_)y-12’ panels for neutral backgrounds beyond the more
particular sort of set pieces in the foreground. #

o For another approach to inexpensive scenery, see Mr.
Miller's article, “Scenery by Projection," Recreation, Octa-
ber 1962. For drama activities Sponsared by recreatian de-
partments acrass the country, see “Drama ls Recreatian,"

special supplement in Recreation, February l962.———Ed.

RECREATION

i

MILITARY RECREATION:
A FAMILY AFFAIR

EDWARD L. ERICSON

E SO OFTEN
W READ of the
recreation pro-
grams for unmar-
ried military serv-
ice personnel, an
important phase of
any base program,
but what of recreation opportunities for
family groups? Are the constant moves
from one station to another weakening
family ties? What is being done to pro-
vide ample leisure-time recreation ac-
tivities for this group? These are some
of the questions asked by persons un-
familiar with military life. Those in
the service know there is little difference
between the military and civilian com-
munity way of living.

The challenge to originate and ad-
minister a program of leisure-time op-
portunities for servicemen and their
families is being met by the Recreation
Management Plan. Under this plan,
trained, civilian professional adminis-
trators assist the military families to
help themselves in their pursuit of lei-
sure-time activities.

At Aviano Air Base in Italy, the pro-

 

 

MR. ERICSON is recreation director [or
the Travellers Insurance Company in
Hartford, Connecticut. Previously lie
was recreation director at United States
Air Force bases at Toul-Rosieres,
France, and Aviano, Italy.

OCTOBER, 1963

grain encompasses activities for all per-
sonnel. The natural surroundings of
this portion of Italy are conducive to a
variety of recreation opportunities. Avi-
ano is situated at the base of the Dolo-
mites range, between the cities of Ven-
ice and Udine. To the north lies the
beckoning ski slopes of Nevegal, Cor-

 

1.!" x wr . a «.4

When it’s ski time in Aviano, Air Force
families borrow ski equipment and take
o5 for the nearby Dolomites sl0pes.

tina, and Austria, while an hour’s drive
southward places the family on the
sandy beaches of the Adriatic. The base
Recreation Section publishes informa-
tive booklets explaining to personnel
the unlimited opportunities available
and how to best take advantage of them.

 

PROGRAM

The Recreation
thagement Plan for
Air Force personnel
stationed abroad

Opportunities for a multiplicity of
outdoor activities for individuals and
family groups are provided by the issu-
ance of equipment through the base
Recreation Section. Funds for the pur-
chase of equipment for everyone’s use
were obtained from the Central Non-
Appropriated Welfare Fund. These
funds are actually a return 011 the per-
sonnel’s own money, derived from the
profits of the post exchange and other
military service stores. With these
funds, equip1nent unavailable through
appropriated sources, but required for
a fully diversified program, is pur-
chased. One example of items purchased
is ski equipment. For most families, the
cost of ski equipment for every mem-
ber of the family is prohibitive. Family
groups may check out, for limited per-
sonal use, skis, poles, and boots. This
provides an opportunity for these
groups to take advantage of the many
natural ski areas so predominant in
northern Italy. In addition to the basic
equipment, the base recreation touring
service has published an informative
booklet called It’s Ski Time Around
Aviano, stating road conditions and dis-
tances, ski slopes, ski tows and ratcs,
special hotel rates, and other pertinent
information of ski areas within one
hundred miles of the base. Ski-lift tick-
ets at the nearby area of Nevegal have

373

374

Three Instructional Guides
For Your Sports library

Qualified recreation leaders and
interested parents alike will ben-
efit from these manuals prepared
by experts to teach the novice.
Much of the content has re-

sulted from problem-solving ex-
periences in AAHPER Outdoor

Education WorkshOps. All three
books are beautifully designed
with diagrams, charts, and car-
toons. All are a matching 8% x
11 inches.

Shooting and Hunting
96 pp. $2.00
Makes it easy to teach others
to enjoy the art of shooting.
Explains in detail how to
handle a gun safely, with
helpful suggestions on equip-
ment and other teaching
tools.

Marksmanship for Young
Shooters 24 pp. $1.00

Especially prepared to show
how the teaching of the
spring-type air rifle can be
incorporated into school,
community, and agency rec-
reation programs.

Casting and Angling 52 pp. $2.00

Covers equipment and
techniques for fly-casting,
spinning, spincasting, surf
casting, and surf spinning.
Includes a games section, of-
ticial rules for casting events,
book, and film references.

AAHPER Standing Order Plan

Enroll now in the AAHPER
Standing Order Plan, a simple
method by which recreation lead-
ers and teachers, agencies and
groups, may receive all AAHPER
publications as they come off the
press. Each new publication is
mailed automatically without re-
quest or notice. Cost varies from
year to year according to pub-
lications. A typical annual cost
is $30 to $35. Enroll any time—
the first publication after the
date of enrollment is the first one
to be sent. Write for further in-
formation and publications list.

American Association for Health,
Physical Education,
and Recreation
1201 Sixteenth Street, N.W.,
Washington, D.C., 20036

 

been made available through negotia-
tion with the local touring area promo-
tion boards. 'Many complimentary
passes are distributed to groups, and
military reduction for lift tickets pro-
vide ample opportunity for all those
who desired to participate to do so.

URING THE SUMMER MONTHS, the
D open road, majestic mountains,
and sandy beaches beckon base groups.
Camping tents, air mattresses, sleeping
bags, and other camping essentials are
available for use. This equipment puts
a weekend or leave trip within the finan-
cial grasp of any personnel or group
who desire to take advantage of the op-
portunity. The Recreation Section has
published a booklet, Camping on the
Austrian and Italian Borders, to assist
families in selecting clean, safe, and in-
expensive camping areas; It suggests
the best roads to travel with a minimum
of traffic encountered. To aid personnel
in their proposed trips, the section pro-
vides touring assistance. Many inform-
ative pamphlets of every country in Eu-
rope and the Mediterranean area are at
the disposal of everyone. The section
will assist personnel in planning vaca-
tions and trips so they may receive max-
imum satisfaction with minimum of
expense.

In addition to equipment, the base
Recreation Section also provides serv-
ices for use by all personnel. Picnic
kits, with suggested family games, mi-
nor competitive sports and basic play-
ing equipment, are providcd for in-
creased participation and enjoyment.
A party service is also available. Pre-
planned birthday, theme, holiday, and
general party plans are available upon
request. In this manner, families can
enjoy the leisure hours within their own
home.

A TEEN CLUB, supervised by parent
volunteers, provides an active year-
round program for teenagers on the
base. A series of volunteer supervisors’
clinic sessions are held periodically to
train teen cluh supervisors. Those ses-
sions assist them in making their even-
ing of teen supervision an enjoyable
and rewarding experience. In this man-
ner, both youth and parents enjoy an
activity which provides a closer family
Their activities

relationship. range

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

from dances and base-centered pro-
grams to tours of major cities and inter-
est points in surrounding countries.

The Oflicers and NCO Clubs assist the

youngsters in banquets and special par-
ties.

The Recreation Section also provides
a teen summer employment service.
Youngsters have opportunities to earn

money for their personal needs and also
contribute to the operation of many
affiliated base functions. The younger
set can join active Boy or Girl Scout
troops or participate in sports and edu-
cation programs. Cooperative story-
telling hours are offered, using volun-

teer parents as a source of leadership.

Many base-wide special events, such
as Halloween parties, Christmas carol
sings, Easter egghunts, and others, are
offered to youth and family groups. The
new community center has programed
music lessons, art and cultural activity
instruction, crafts, square-dance club,
and many other activities for all mem-
bers of the family. Special-interest
groups in archery, golf, skiing, choral
singing, musical quartets, and others
have been formed to provide a well-
roundcd Opportunity for participation.
One of the outstanding examples of
family special-interest activities was a

“Ski and Square \Veekend.” Families

were billetcd at one hotel, where spe-

cial rates had been negotiated. The days
were filled with skiing and Saturday

evening featured square dancing.

The average military family has
many doors opened to the vast horizons

of opportunity for intelligent use of its
leisure time. Whether it be high in
the Tyrolean Alps, on the sunny beaches
of the Adriatic, or on-base facilities. we
find families sharing a common experi-
ence which has been offered by sound
planning to meet the needs of their ex-
panding leisure time. Family ties are
most definitely strengthened by the op-
portunities for intelligent use of leisure
time being planned by the military. #

o For other articles on recreation for
military personnel and their depend-
ents, see “Leathernecks at leisure,"
Recreation, January 1963; “Command
Performance," May 1962; “Youth in
Command," February 1962; and "Rec-
reation for Today's Military Man,"
January l962.—Ed.

RECREATION

THE CHANGING SILHOUETTES 0F SPORT

PART 2

SLO W PITCH BOOM

COMMONLY known as “slow pitch,”
sixteen-inch softball is currently a
booming recreation activity in the Mid-
west. During the 1959 Pan American
games in Chicago, it was estimated that
approximately six thousand teams
_would participate in the slow-pitching
game. Present-day rules are a result of
Chicago‘s vast program; however,
softball players played the game in the
period 1910 to 1919 but it was called
“mush ball,” and after World War I it
was called “playground ball.”

Although very popular in the Mid-
west, sixteen-inch is just beginning to
make its appearance on the West Coast.
Its particular attraction to adult groups
seeking fun and exercise with little
chance of injury promises to make it a
popular sport in this area also.

One of the first supporters to launch
a sixteen-inch softball program in
Southern California was Elmer S.
Moon, director of athletics for the city
of Torrance Recreation Department.
Mr. Moon first learned of the game in
1947 while reading the softball guide
book for that year. A very short de-
scription of the game was included in
the article on the slowed-clown version
of softball as played in the Chicago
area. It stated that two men ninety
years of age, and a complete team con-
sisting of players sixty years of age or
oldcr were competing in Chicago. Here
was a wonderful medium for persons in
the average age bracket of service clubs,
lodges, and church groups to express
their dormant talents in a game they
enjoy, without the embarrassment or
physical discomforts usually attendant
when they attempt to participate in the
standard competitive softball game. A
crowded program on one lighted field
restricted Mr. Moon in his desire to try
out the game, until 1952. At that time
Mr. Moon drew up a set of rules and
presented them to various service or-

OCTOBER, 1963

ganizations in his area with emphasis
placed on the play-for-relaxation theory
and it was accepted, resulting in an
eight-team league.

Through Mr. Moon’s leadership,
other agencies in the Southern Califor-
nia area started to have sixteen-inch
softball as a part of their sports pro-
gram. Eventually, the Southern Cali-
fornia Municipal Athletic Federation
accepted the activity as one of its many
conducted tournaments. The Southern
California Municipal Athletic Federa-
tion conducted its first sixteen-inch
tournament in Torrance in 1958 and
has held one each year with participa-
tion figures increasing as it goes.

Knowing that to offer an activity
completely different from one already
enjoyed would be difficult, the Southern
California Municipal Athletic Federa-
tion Softball Rules Committee adapted
its rules so that they would not conflict
too much with the regular softball, the
purpose being to eliminate as much
confusion as possible so that partici-
pants could adapt themselves much eas-
ier. Essentially, it is the same as twelve-
inch softball with two major exceptions.
First, the ball is sixteen inches in cir-
cumference, compared to twelve inches
for the regulation softball. This means
that gloves are not needed, that it is
easier to hit and catch, and that it does
not travel as far or as fast as the smaller
ball.

The second distinction is that in
“slow-pitch” that is exactly what hap-
pens. The game is taken away from the
pitcher and returned to the hitters and
fielders. Rules on pitching, which vary
slightly depending on the individual
preference, generally require the ball to
prescribe an arc between the time it
leaves the pitcher’s hand and reaches
the batter. In most cases, this is inter-
preted to mean that the ball must reach
a point above the batter’s head some-

 

time before it crosses the plate.

Also, one more player is added to
the team, giving an opportunity for
more participation. This player is
termed the short centerfielder. He usu-
ally assumes his position somewhere be-

tween the left and right fielder and be-
tween the centerfielder and second base.
On double play situations, this player
is moved in to second base and acts as
the pivot man.

One of the most attractive factors of
slow pitch is the speed in which games
are played. Because of the few walks
and few pitches the average game is
slightly more than an hour to play. Due

to the crowded use of facilities and lack
of proper lighting, this is an important
factor to most agencies.

There are various methods of pre-
senting this game to your participants
but the one most successful is to get
them out and play. The game will take
care of itself. If you have some groups
who have played the game or would like
to play, set up an exhibition game with
proper publicity to draw out spectators
so that they too may see the game in ac-
tion. At the conclusion of the game,
having the spectators come onto the
field and take part in batting practice
giving them the opportunity to pitch-
and field the ball as well as hit. Once
they participate, they will experience
the enjoyment and thus the desire will
be created.--——TIIOMAS A. PETERSON,
Senior Director, Municipal Sports Di-
rector, Recreation and Parks Depart-
ment, Los Angeles, California.

(Continued on next Page)

0 Far other material an softball, see
"The Return of Softball" and “Fast-
Rising Slow Pitch League," bath in
Recreation, May 1960. For modifica-
tions in baseball for older participants,
see “Seniar Adult Basketball," May
1962 (Page 228) and "Pot-Bellied
Basketball," September l963.—Ed.

375

' Low Cost/Growing
Sport Programs for
Both Men and Women

PM

For club, class or team. Requires
minimum space and equupment.
Exciting and practical for few or
many participants. National and
International associations.

Castello produces championship
equipment and speelally designed
equupment for class use. All

modestly priced.

JUDO and KARATE T00!

Kodokan approved uniforms spe-
cially designed for the taller

American figure.
Write for Free Catalogs

CASTELLO

memo/Juno I KARATE EQUIPMENT
so E. 10th St., N. v. 3, N. v. since 1914

WITH [HALO-MAGIC CONTROL

The SCOREBRAIN is as easy to
operate as dialing your own tele-
phone. ONLY ELECTRO -MECH
brings you this exciting new seore-
board and control system. And,
model for model, SCOREBRAINS
cost far less than others.

FOOTBALL SCOREBOARDS

Model 321M — 3’8”xl4’ -— $ 595.00
Model 321 -— 7’4”xl4’ -— $1375.00
Model 324 -— 7’4”x18’ — $1575.00
Model 330 — 9’4"x24’ -— $2600.00

THERE ARE NO HIDDEN COSTS

 

electro-mech corp.

on NI“! STREET I MACON, GEOIGIA
PHONE 742-2336 0 AIEA CODE "2

 

376

 

STAKE GOLF

A NEW FORM of miniature golf is
especially adapted for limited
areas such as lawns and areas around
institutions, rest and nursing homes,
eamps,“‘and private yards. Stake golf
can be played on any lawn suitable for
croquet. It differs from croquet in that
it is played with golf putters and golf
balls. Stake golf is entirely 3 putting
game. With regular golf putters, a golf
ball is patted in and out around stakes
placed at varying distances around the
lawn and finally into a cup.

The accompanying sketch shows the
simple and practical layout of a possible
course. Here are suggested rules:

1. The game may be started at either
end of the course. The first ball must
be put in play in back of the cup and
to the left of it if the ball is to pass the
first stake on the right and vice versa.

2. The ball must travel in and out
around the stakes.

3. If a ball passes a stake on the
wrong side, it has to be putted back and
pass the stake on the right side, eount-
ing each stroke.

4. If a ball goes into the rough, the
player has a choice of playing it exactly
as it lies or moving it not more than two
feet straight out into the fairway at the
point where it entered the rough. The
penalty for this is one stroke.

5. If a ball hits a stone wall or other
obstacle, the penalty is also one stroke;
and the ball must be put in play not
more than two feet straight out from
the point of contact.

6. If the ball is in the fairway but
so close to the stone wall or other ob-
stacle that the player cannot take a free
swing at it, it may be moved straight
out, not more than two feet, without a
penalty stroke.

Every course will have its own par-
ticular layout and a set of rules best
adapted to the individual situation.
There is no limit to possible arrange-
ments and rules. Equipment is simple;
all you need are some putters and old
golf balls. Stakes can be sawed-off
broom handles. With a drawknife put a
very long point on the sawed-oftr end so
the stakes can be pressed into the turf.

To avoid digging holes in the lawn
and to avoid a lot of steeping, use the

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

 

regular metal practice putt eups eon]-
nlonly used in indoor practice putting.
These are cirCular lnetal plates with
hinged flaps around the center. When a
golf ball rolls up on a flap, it trips and
deposits the ball in the center which acts
as a cup. Have a hole in the center of
the cup. By pressing a large nail into
the turf through the hole, the cup is held
snugly in place. In hot, sunny weather
the metal can be removed from the lawn
when no golf is being played to avoid
injury to the grass beneath.

Behind each eup have a Hag pole or
pin, primarily to mark location of the
cup. This pin is a regular stake with a
seven-hy-nine-ineh, red-colored, triang-
ular plastic cloth tied to the top with
very thin copper wire. The plastic eloth
serves as a flag. To hold the flag in
place, a small hole was drilled near the
top. The pin is moved when it interferes
with a ball traveling in a direct line to
the cup.

The painted stakes and pins with
their little red flags show up exception-
ally well. To further “doll up” the
course, tie small, plastic eloth flags of
varying colors to the other stakes. This
adds attractiveness. Making and paint-
ing the stakes and pins can be an inter-
esting “do-it-yourself” project—G. A.
SCHMIDT, Fort Collins, Colorado.

RECREATION

 

ADMINISTRATION .

ICE RINKS: CONSTRUCTION AND OPERATION

CHOICE AND PROBLEMS IN CONSTRUCTION

DON A. PARKHURST

HEN IT COMES to original cost and Operating cost

w the prospective ice-rink owner has a number of

choices. In other respects, he has no choices. The
site must be carefully selected with respect to population,
traflic, local codes, parking, size, et cetera. It must have suit-
able drainage and soil. For instance, a site on a river side,
where the soil is swampy and drainage is a major problem,
should be rejected on technical grounds, however suitable
it might be with respect to price, traffic, population, and the
like. This applies most particularly to municipalities which
sometimes allocate land to the new ice skating rink because
it is otherwise unusable, although it is technically wrong for
an ice rink.

The size of the rink is dictated by its anticipated use.
Rinks for public skating must and should be 85’-by-185’
minimum, so as to be suitable for junior and senior hockey
during “off” hours. Without exception, those who have
built smaller rinks of this classification have regretted not
deciding on the standard. On the other hand, studio rink
owners are by way of agreeing that forty feet by eighty feet
is the optimum size. Building and facilities must be pro-
vided to support the ice rink operation. Skating fees are
not the only source of revenue. Purely recreation rinks,
such as in motels and clubs, might vary from the above, but
they knowingly forego certain income in so doing.

To insure competent guidance as to the site, size, build-
ing, et cetera, the services of a qualified architect-and-engi-
neer are fully as important as is a minister or priest for a
wedding. The venture can be consummated without his
services, but with them its chances of success are about
ninety-nine percent improved! Please note that a qualified

MR. PARKHURST is from. Park Ridge, Illinois, and has had a

broad experience in design and construction of many arti-
ficial. ice rinks.

OCTOBER, 1963

 

man is indicated—one who has had prior experience and
is otherwise reliable. There are many qualified architects
and engineers willing to try something new to them. Ice-
rink engineering is not for the uninitiated. There are too
many problems that have no parallel in other areas of en-
gineering, and technical literature on the subject is very
limited.

Now for the choices affecting original cost. Obviously,
the larger the ice sheet, the greater the cost, but the price
will be lower per square foot of ice surface. As to type of
floor, the following list is offered with the type with the
highest cost given first: (1) steel pipe in post-stressed con-
crete, (2) steel pipe in reinforced concrete, (3) steel pipe
in sand, and (4) plastic tubing in sand.

Thc recently developed steel pipe in post-stressed con-
crete floor is the most costly, but the least likely to deve10p
cracks or heaving. It is reliably calculated that a post-
stressed floor can endure, if necessary, at least twice as
much frost heaving as a conventional reinforced concrete 0
floor. But let us speak no more of frost heaving! We have
already agreed that we will hire a qualified engineer to pass
on site, sample the soil, and design the job so that this
worrisome trouble does not occur.

Should you buy new refrigerating equipment? If you
customarily purchase used cars and have consistent good
luck with them, perhaps you should depend on your luck
some more. If not, or if you think there is too great a
gamble in the present instance, then, by all means, secure

your equipment from a reliable contractor who can and
will fully guarantee it for a year.

MACHINES may be automatic or manually operated. Au-
tomatic safety devices are required by code. The slight
additional cost for fully automatic operation will be amor-

377

tized within weeks. It is not economical to ask your con-
tractor to eliminate automatic controls and safety devices.
Let it be said here that cleanliness, good housekeeping, and
proper maintenance of the machines are not “automatic.”
No “lick and promise” care will do!

As to choice of refrigerant, Freon is indicated over am-
monia on moral grounds. lt is morally wrong to use am-
monia where small children are likely to be present. Am-
monia has a very definite place in refrigerating systems in
packing plants, cold storage warehouses, and the like, but

not on an ice rink.
There is now a choice of brines. Formerly, the only brine

reasonably available was calcium, which is corrosive. The
new glycol-type brines are almost noncorrosive. Although
they are somewhat more expensive, the added cost is a wise
expense. Two brine pumps are recommended for all ice
rinks, each one capable of full load.

“Packaged” machine rooms are almost universal. Re-
mote or “site-built” machine assemblies are almost out of
the picture from a price standpoint. Operating cost choices
involve (1) power and water and (2) maintenance. Recent-
ly the gas companies have been making a play for the use
of gas-engine drive in place of electric motors. In some
cases, use of gas-engine drive can result in a rather sub-
stantial saving in power cost. There is no categorical an-
swer. Each job must be calculated on the basis of gas vs.
electric rates. However, do not make the mistake of accept-
ing published electric rates. Discuss the problems with your
local power company as well as the gas company. In some
cases, the company will actually establish a special rate in
order to retain the desirable demand. In other cases, they
seem to prefer the switch to gas competition. In some cases,
the same company furnishes both electricity and gas.

Cooling towers and evaporative condensers are water-
conserving devices that no self-respecting ice rink should
be without. An engineer or contractor who offers rcfrig-
crating equipment that is to use city watcr alone is not
qualified. This is a categorical premisc.

THE BEST INSURANCE against high maintenance and rcpair
costs is the selection of first quality equipment and its
installation by a reliable contractor who will provide a year’s
warranty to back up his equipment. The ice rink owner
who pays the most for repairs is the one who has a dirty
machine room with cartons and trash piled around the equip-
ment. Automobile owners provide a parallel. The owner
who faithfully has his car washed, greased, oil changed,
brakes adjusted, Spark plugs renewed, et cetera, enjoys im-
measurably less trouble than the owner who is so oblivious
to the needs of his car that he frequently runs out of gas——
and then complains bitterly about having to walk a distance
for it.

One of the persistent troubles with indoor ice rinks is the
matter of condensation and dripping. Recently a solution
to this problem has appeared. It is an industrial-size, self-
contained, uncomplicated dehumidifier that is within rea-
son from a cost as well as a technical standpoint. Technical
Paper No. 102, published by the Ice Skating Institute of

America in 1961, contains further maintenance tips. 

378

THE THREE “R’s” OF
OPERATION

HAROLD J. VAN COTT

HE THREE “R’s” of ice rink operation involve general
areas so basic to the total picture that inadequate or
poorly conceived planning in any one of the three “R’s”
can only result in less than satisfactory Operational levels.
All of the three “R’s” appear to be obvious; however, it is
astonishing how often the obvious escapes us. As a matter
of fact, all too often, expediency becomes the governing
factor in the establishment and operation of a facility.

The first “R” of ice rink operation is the selection of per-
sonnel to operate the rink well in advance of opening day.
These people must not be selected solely on the basis of
their inerely being available at that particular time of the
year even though the temptation to do so may be great.
Skilled people with specific experience in ice rink operation
should be recruited to fill the key obs. Securing the serv-
ices of an individual who has had the responsibility for the
operation and maintenance of an ice plant and who knows
ice is basic. If the rink is an outdoor facility, this man will
be all the more important, for weather is a factor that can
present a real challenge. This person should be very familiar
with the different types of ice required by various skating
activities—hockey, figure skating, speed skating, and gen-
eral sessions. He should bc well aware that the ice enjoyed
by couples at a night session may not be suitable for young-
sters at a crowdcd matinee.

A well-planncd maintenance setup will mean efficient op-
eration. It will save utility costs, and electric bills can
amount to a substantial portion of operating costs. Skilled
individuals can plan and conduct a comprehensive mainte-
nance schedule which will result in minimizing loss of time
due to mechanical failure and also will prolong the life of
expensive refrigeration equipment.

The individual or individuals responsible for the admin-
istration of thc facility likewise should be selected on the
basis of actual experience, if it is your goal to conduct
a comprehensive skating program. Operation of a skating
rink includes many responsibilities other than merely over-
sceing a public skating session. Your rink manager should
have a flare for public relations. He should be skilled in the
selection and training of personnel employed at the rink.
Development of a skating program that utilizes every pos-
sible hour of icc time is another important responsibility.

f I \IIE SECOND of the thrce “R’s” concerns itself with ade-
quacy of the services to be offered at the facility. Eat-
ing goes with skating, and a snack bar setup adds to the at-

MR. VAN COTT is superintendent of reereation in Essex
County, New Jersey. He (fiseussed the construction and
operation of an indoor and outdoor rink in Essex County

in two artieies whieh appeared in RECREATION, 0etober and
November, 1959.

RECREATION

:ractiveness of the rink as well as being an important source
of income. There are numerous pros and cons as to whether
a public agency should operate its own specialized facilities
such as a snack bar. However, there can be no argument
that the manager has a definite responsibility to make cer-
tain that food items offered to the public are of the highest
quality. Whether a public agency operates a luncheonette
or a concessionaire does, it is vital that personnel handling
' food present a clean and sparkling appearance.

Another key to successful operation is a skate sh0p. The
availability of rental skates will make it possible for many
persons to try the rink out. Pe0ple utilizing skate rentals
may account for as much as a fourth of the total using an

 

ice rink during its first year of operation. This percentage
will taper off somewhat, but will always represent an im-
portant segment of the total number of skaters.

Skate sharpening, often thought of as a ob for the local
hardware store, is a highly skilled process. The better
skaters—whether they be speed skaters, hockey players,
figure skaters—demand proper skate maintenance, and the
number of better skaters grows in leaps and bounds follow-
ing the construction of an artificial ice rink. Selection of
a man with a background in skate sh0p work and the in-
stallation of proper equipment with which he can do the
job can mean a great deal to your total Operation.

The sale of accessories such as skate guards, laces, hooks,
et cetera, should be considered. If a man of sufiicient ex-
perience can be found, then careful thought should also be
given to the sale of skates and skating outfits. If you were
to conduct a survey of those stores in your community, be
it large or small, which offer skates for sale, you would
find few, if any, that carry a quality line of merchandise
and have the personnel on hand who can properly fit these
skates.

One last thought on the second “R” of ice rink operation
is the adequacy of the sound system and the music offered.
It would seem that few ice rink operators are satisfied with
their sound system, and changes which involve additional
speakers are frequent. Sound systems can be both complex
and costly; hence, expert advice should be sought before
any final decisions are made. A change in pace of music
will add to your skating program and will also greatly please

OCTOBER, 1963

@ADMINIS TRATI ON

 

rink employees, who may tire of hearing the same skating
tunes over and over again. It is not at all necessary to stick
to the run-of-the-mill skating music; for instance, you will
find that women attending weekday morning sessions will
enjoy a bit of Hawaiian music on occasion.

A THIRD “R” in ice rink operation is the planning of an

accident prevention program. More and more pe0ple
are displaying an urge to sue whenever and whomever they
can. Public agencies are by no means isolated from the
threat, particularly where revenue-producing units are con-
cerned. It is true that most of these cases become mere nui-
sance claims; however, there is always the definite possibil-

 

ity that one case might hit the jackpot as far as the claim-
ant is concerned. It is almost impossible to guard against
every conceivable situation which might be termed negli-
gent. A well-conceived program will certainly attempt to
minimize the possibility of injury through negligence; how-
ever, it cannot eliminate that possibility entirely. Whether
a public agency desires to carry insurance or to be self-
insured is not as important as that it consider carefully all
the ramifications of its decision.

If an individual decides to institute suit against your pub-
lic agency, the chances are that considerable time will elapse
from the date of the alleged injury before the suit is pre-
sented in court. This makes it imperative that accurate and
complete records be maintained on all accidents even though
they appear minor. Likewise, records should be kept on
the daily operation of the rink, including the resurfacing
time of ice, the number of people skating, and those em-
ployees on duty at every period of the day.

Skate guards should be trained so as to create a favorable
impression in the minds of the public. This includes a will-
ingness to assist the rank novice or to advise the youngster
on the pr0per way to lace skates. Guards should also be
well schooled in the tactful handling of accident cases and
certainly should have some understanding of first aid. The
training given to guards should be documented with a copy

given to each individual. If one of your guards is called
to testify in a hearing, you will find this special training

to be invaluable. #

379

CREATIVE TANK TOWN

Rail road waterlank pumps

new life into Rocky Mount, North Carolina,

WILLIAM A. RAWLS, JR.

HE “tank” in the city of Rocky

Mount, North Carolina doesn’t

hold prisoners or lobsters . . .
just art lovers! The new Rocky Mount
Arts and Crafts Center is unique in
many ways, but two of the most unusual
features of this art gallery in a reno-
vated watertank are its physical appear-
ance and its history. This old railroad
pumping station which. once supplied
passing engines with water now re-

freshes the passerby with a creative flow
of cultural inspiration.

In the early fall of 1957, a handful of

citizens interested in advancing the orc-
ative arts in this eastern North Carolina
community formed The Rocky Mount
Arts Center, a nonprofit and tax-
deductible organization. There were a
few initial “angels” among the backers,
but the greater part of the financing
came from voluntary contributions of
$3 to $10 each. Contributions brought
no other privilege than being a part of
the financial support of an idea. Activi-
ties were open to all, contributor or not.

The organization rented a large house
in a central residential area and the
advisory board painted and redecorated
it themselves. With the able assistance

MR. RAWLS is president of the Arts
Council, Rocky M onnt, N orth Carolina.

380

cultural program

of the local newspaper, the Arts Center
opened its doors. Classes in drawing,
painting, ballct, music and art appreciar
tion were taught by qualified instructors
from neighboring colleges. Activities
included lectures, exhibits, sidewalk
art shows, concerts, ballets, and theatri-
eals. Additional courses were added
whenever a demand for same was ex-
pressed. The public’s response was
overwllchning. At the end of the first
year it became necessary to hirc a full-
time executive secretary to handle the
activities. Needless to say, the center

outgrew its quarters.

'I‘ THE :30 of three years of success-

ful operation. the city recreation
department, under the guidance of Mrs.
Fairy Randy and with the approval of
the city manager, proposed a joint ar-
rangement between the Arts Ccnter and
the recreation department. The city had
recently purchased an old “pumping-
station” from the Atlantic Coast Line
Railroad. The riverside location was
ideal for a nature park and the brick
building that had served as the “pump-
ing-station” could be renovated to house
the center’s activities. The adjacent
“water tank” was to be sold and dis-

mantled so that additional construction

could eventually be added to the origi-
nal building. The city also proposed to
pay half of the salary of the center’s ex-
ecutive secrctary as well as providing
funds for other items on the growing
budgct. This would allow an expansion
of a much-needed craft program. The
joint arrangement was entered upon
and the move to the “pumping station”
was made following renovations. Dur-
ing the past year the city has assumed
the center’s support of the full budget,
and thc Arts Center, Incorporated. the
original organization, uses its funds as
flexible support to underwrite new ac-
tivities as they arise.

EANWIIILE, the adjacent tank was
M not sold and plans for its me as
part of the center was suggested. A
local architect was assigned the difficult
task of converting this “stccl barrel”
with its top open to the sky into a func-
tional and attractive building. The re-
sult is astonishing. The finished build-
ing will consist of three floors. The first.
already completed, houses a circular
gallery, two ofiices, and public rest-
rooms. The circular wall of the gallery
is finished with pegboard painted an
off-white color. This gives an unbroken
area that is ideal for exhibitions. The

RECREATIOX

ADMINISTRATION

  

surface lends itself to facility in the
hanging of paintings as well as adapt-
ability in providing the support for
brackets and shelves when needed for
exhibitions of crafts and other three-
dimensional work.
g h CQQFTQ CCMTEQ Makmgacmmog égaasmm The second floor of the new structure
cum-r. M-Ct ‘QQW‘TWGT‘E "EMB'MEEWB: will consist of a large “all-purpose”
auditorium suitable for theatricals, lec-
tures, film showings, and many other
activities, as well as dressing rooms.
Theatrical productions will be staged in
semi-arena fashion with the audience
surrounding three sides of the players.
The third-floor plans call for several
painting studios and classrooms as well
as a darkroom for photography. There
is not a window in the entire building,
but plexiglass domes are planned for
the ceiling of the top floor. Access to
the tank is through a lobby of brick and
plate glass that extcnds to the top floor,
providing a stairwell that seems to open
itself to the wooded area that surrounds
the entire building. Rocky Mount has
given a new status to “tank towns.” 

0 Other abandoned buildings that
have been made over into arts-and-
crafts centers include a firehouse and

 

IL - an old mill. See “Five-Alarm Arts and
' Crafts," Recreation, October 1962 and
Art has found wall space in caves and in palaces, chapels and coffeehouses but “Creative Grist for an Old Mill," Rec-

now has found a new home in a renovated railroad water tank! reation, May 196] .-—Ed.

OCTOBER, 1963 ' 381

NOTES FOR THE ADMINISTRATOR

 

County Policy

THE County Supervisors Association of California has
adopted an overall recreation policy designed to serve
as a guide for individual counties. The policy not only
sets forth responsibilities for the county but suggests the
roles and responsibilities of local, state, and federal gov-
ernment for recreation planning, acquisition, deve10pment,
and management of recreation areas. The adoption of this
policy is a significant step to further the cause of public
recreation, and its example might profitably be followed
by organizations of county officials in other states. The
report as officially adopted follows:
County Recreation Responsibilities

1. Counties should encourage, through planning, consul-
tation, and other services as may be requested by local
agencies, the provision of neighborhood and community
recreation facilities and activities.

2. Counties should take the initiative to encourage and
assist in providing unsatisfied community and neighbor-
hood recreation and park needs, and to correspondingly
recommend the means of financing such programing from
the area to be served.

3. County government should be the primary supplier
of day-use regional recreation facilities within the county,
when such facilities are intended for use throughout the
county.

4. Counties should investigate the feasibility of utilizing
the “user-pay” concept in meeting public demands for ree-
reation.

5. Counties should not ofier property tax inducements to
private recreation suppliers.

6. When day-use recreation demand crosses county
houndaries, voluntary inter-county cooperative agreements
are strongly recommended. Legislation designed to force
the formation of inter-county regional recreation adminis-
tration is both detrimental to home rule and further con-
trihutes to the fragmentation of local government.

7. In the event creation of a new unit of government is
necessary to the effective and economical solution of re-
gional recreation problems, the responsibility for govern-
ment and administration rightfully vests in the elected coun-
ty supervisors therein.

8. Counties envision the state’s role as a planner and
coordinator of recreation to consist of making studies and
surveys and long-range plans of recreation facilities; recom-
mending a comprehensive recreation policy for the state;
and participating with federal, state, county, and local gov-
ernmental agencies in advance planning with respect to the
development and coordination of recreation facilities and
programs.

9. Local agencies requesting recreation services for un-
satisfied community and neighborhood recreation and park
needs should, first, make such requests to the county. In the
event of inahility to provide said services, the county shall
forward the request to the state division of recreation. All

382

such requests should, in any event, be restricted to those
agencies lacking resources to provide requested services
on their own behalf.

10. When the character of state and federally operated
recreation areas changes to day-use largely by residents of
a given county, the state and federal governments should
give consideration to offering such areas to county govern-
ments for operation.

11. The federal government has responsibility for the
preservation and development of areas that have nation-
wide natural or historical values, regardless of their location.

12. The federal government should continue its coopera-
tive planning with states and local governments for provid-
ing areas and services primarily for persons on overnight
or longer trips.

13. All federal land-holding agencies should establish
general land-use plans, in cooperation with state and local
governments, to determine future long-range recreation
uses and needs prior to making disposals or establishing
irrevocable withdrawals or developments of puhlic lands.

A Say in the Matter

In a number of cities, notably Philadelphia, recreation
authorities in recent years have provided residents of play-
ground neighborhoods the opportunity to review and com-
ment on proposed plans for the development of neighbor-
hood recreation areas. Meetings at which plans have been
presented and discussed have proved an effective means of
securing neighborhood understanding and support.

This practice has not been followed in New York City,
but aroused neighborhood groups are changing the situa-
tion. A group of citizens called “The Committee for the
Preservation of Tompkins Square Park” has been assured
by the city department of parks that recommendations for
the development of the park will be given consideration by
the department. The original plan for the park proposed
several months earlier had met with strong opposition from
the community and resultcd in proposals for a design more
acceptable to the people of the surrounding area.

In the Greenwich Village area of the city, the develop-
ment of Washington Square Park has long been a subject
of heated controversy. In June, 1962, however, an $800,000
redevelopment of the park moved nearer realization as plans
were made for a committee of landscape architects to submit
designs for the area. Proposals for the park have been made
by the Creenwieli Village Community Board which held
meetings attended by representatives of local civic, political,
and religious organizations. The board has been assured
that no official action would be taken in renovating the park
until Village residents had completed their proposals.

Increasingly, recreation authorities recognize that people
are taking a greater interest in the development of recrea-
tion areas provided for their use and they are giving neigh-
borhood and community groups more opportunity to indi-
cate the facilities they desire in the areas.

RECREATION

 

MAXWELL NATHAN

INNING a campaign for a tax or
w bond issue requires having
something worthwhile to sell,
backed up by a determination to put in
all the time, effort and resources re-
quired to complete the sale. From my
own experience and from the experience
of others who have worked on successful
campaigns in Ohio, I have yet to find
a simple formula insuring success at the
polls. Each campaign situation must be
evaluated by itself. A campaign that
works wonders in one community can
fall flat in another; and the same cam-
paign plan will not necessarily bring
victory again in the same community.
What is even worse——sometimes, good
old-fashioned hard work can be just so
much wasted effort when the votes are
tallied.
There is no formula that guarantees
success, but there are factors that are
important:

 

MR. NATHAN is former information and
research assistant for the city of Day-
ton, Ohio, and a former regional vice-
president of the Government Public Re-
lations Association. Currently, he is
head of the public and community re-
lations firm of Maxwell Nathan and As-
sociates, Dayton. This material is di-
gested from the January 1963 issue of
Ohio Cities and Villages.

OCTOBER, 1963

I

L

II III-I
---- III...-
II ‘IIII

III' AI II. ‘III
“Ir All III. ‘I'

l'
‘
‘
I
I
I
I
V

,‘II III...
(I... III-0
‘III ""
‘I-h ‘I I' All.
-.-... .I.....
III. IIIL
‘.III III"
“I. I”

III...
I...’

Q
.IL

 

RECREATION ;

Tax Issues Must Be Merchandised.
Merchandising is required for every-
thing that needs to be sold to the public
in our free society. In some ways a
tax issue is more difficult to sell to people
than a recognized necessity they need
. . . like gasoline, or a loaf of bread, or
a new pair of shoes. For the question
before the voter will not be which brand
to buy, but whether to vote “For” or
“Against” the issue. A voter on the
fence may be expected to vote against,
since that is his way of saying, “Not
today.” Voters are agreeable to voting
for improvements in facilities or serv-
ices or in keeping existing programs,
but please don’t expect people in their
right minds to vote just for higher taxes.
A bond issue or tax levy is merely the
means whereby the improvements can
be paid for. Issues must be merchan-
dised so that the great majority of
voters will believe that what the issue
represents is desirable, is worth the
money . . . and can be delayed no longer.

Confidence Requires Competence.
No matter how great the city’s needs,
the public is not going to vote more
money to an organization that appears
to go about its business with ineptness
or indifference—from the citizen’s
viewpoint. Take a good look at city hall

DIGEST

HOW TO SELL THE VOTER

Tax and bond issues

must be m erchandised

well before the campaign is publicly
announced. Place yourself in the shoes
of any one of the citizens who might
come in between now and election day.
Will he feel that his interview is con-
ducted in an efficient and courteous
manner? Don’t expect him to “under-
stand” city hall’s problems. When he
is marking his ballot he is thinking
about how well city hall “understands”
his problems.

Start Early. Sometimes a proposal
can be partially sold even before the
public is aware it will be up for vote.
Municipal officials and others can urge
the needed improvements whenever they
speak before local groups or whenever
an opening presents itself in a council
meeting that is being covered by the
press. interested citizen
groups can even be encouraged to pub-
licly urge an early vote on grounds that
the improvements can be put off no
longer.

Sometimes

However, beware of premature an-
nouncement that the council plans to
place a new tax issue 011 the ballot with-
out first making sure that the public is
already familiar with the needs behind
this action. Otherwise, you can sudden-
ly mobilize a strong anti-tax opposition.

If, after having sent up trial balloons,

383

you see that public response continues
to be indifferent or even negative, you
can avoid going ahead with What likely
will be a defeat at the polls. Take time
to have another look at the program to
see why it lacks appeal.
Citizens Committee. There is in-
creasing use of a citizens committee,
other than city officials, to wage cam-
paigns for public issues. A properly
representative citizens committee serves
the voter as an “unbiased research or-
ganization” of fellow taxpayers who
find the issue definitely deserving of
support by all. A citizens committee
can raise campaign funds from many
sources without compromising the city.
Assistance Is Vital. With all the COD]-
petition for the taxpayers’ dollar, it is
important that any serious campaign
for a public issue be well-planned, well-
timed, and well-executed. Someone
must take the time and responsibility
to see that everything clicks. Even with-
out organized opposition, you can be
faced with an even more deadly foe of
civic progress—public apathy.

The citizens committee needs an ex-
ecutive or a secretary whose job is to
see that everything planned is carried

—.—_u..__..__....__._..__...___.._.._.-—_.

Clear messy, stuffed toilets
Cut maintenance costs with

out and that decisions are reached in
time to do something about them. This
person may be loaned by one of the
major industries of the community or
perhaps he can be a volunteer or a per-
son employed for the position, but he
must have initiative, imagination, and
tact. He must be a perfectionist as to
details but a realist as to time and in
working with people. Some communi-
ties arrange for a professional consult-
ant or other experienced person to work
with the citizens committee who can
contribute more know-how than might
normally be found in that community.
Goals Guide You. A campaign is like
any other kind of large-scale competi-
tion involving people. Mobilize those
you believe are favorable and make cer-
tain they do vote. Concentrate much of
your campaign effort in winning those
still disinterested or who have not as
yet decided how to vote. Don’t worry
ahout converting the out-and-out oppo-
sition during the few weeks available
during a campaign. The opposition
will either ignore or discount anything
you do or say, and the Opposition will
vote “No.” Just make certain you are
generating a far greater “Yes” vote.

 

Pace the Campaign. Don’t shoot
your wad the opening weeks of the cam-
paign. Keep up the offensive, with new
points and new arguments for the issuc.
Be sure to keep new campaign ammu-
nition ready for the last week and days.
Public Relations. Don’t confuse the
tools of public relations with the cam-
paign itself. The tools are campaign
literature, speeches, publicity, house-to-
house canvassing, and advertising. Keep
your eyes and ears open for “feedback”
from the public in terms of letters to the
editor and public expressions about the
campaign. Give greater value to what
is said by those whose minds were
formerly “open” than to what is said by
the anticipated “aginners.”

Luck Is a Factor. Even the best pre-
pared and best conducted campaign can
sometimes be lost through no fault of
the campaign leadership and organiza-
tion. World events, national events,
changing economic conditions, and to-
day’s main news storics all have their
effect on the feelings and spirit of people
in every community in America. One
thing is certain, however! You don’t
have a chance of winning without put-
ting up some kind of a campaign.

 

Ordinary plungers don't seat
properly. They permit com-
pressed air and water to splash
back. Thus you not only have
a mess, but you lose the very
pressure you need to clear the
obstruction.

With “TOILAFLEX”, ex-
pressly designed for toilets, no
air or water can escape. The
full pressure plows through the
clogging mass and swishes it
down. Can’t miss!

Dated and Undated

0 Blue heavy simulated leather stamped in gold

0 Each holds one year’s issues

0 Opens Flat for changes

RECREATION MAGAZINE
8 West Eighth Street, New York II

a Double cup, double-pressure Get a "IOllAFtEX" for your home no.

Positive insurance against stuffed toilet.

o Tapered tail gives air-tight tit
0 Designed to flex at any angle  65
0 Centers, can't skirt around Higher in canada

AVAILABLE AT YOUR HARDWARE SUPPLIER

 

384-

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. RECREATION .

PERSONNEL

 

NEW NATIONAL COMMITTEE CHAIRMEN

HE National Recreation Associa-
l tion’s National Advisory Com-
mittee on Recruitment, Training
and Placement has one hundred mem-
bers and five major subdivisions which
include recruitment, inservice training,
undergraduate education, graduate
education, and placement. The work of
these committees is coordinated by an
executive committee composed of the
five chairmen of the subcommittee, the
overall general chairman, and the sec-
retary. Duplication and overlapping is
eliminated by the executive committee
as the subcommittees work on various
problems and projects appropriate to
their respective areas of concern.
The purpose of the committee is to:
o Advise NRA on matters related to
personnel.
0 Recommend, initiate, promote, de-
velop and conduct projects that will
serve the recreation movement and en-
hance the profession.
0 Develop material for publication on
apprOpriate personnel subjects.
0 Assist in the planning and conduct
of personnel sessions at the National
Congresses and district conferences.
The areas of concern are: recruit-
ment, training, and placement. The
objectives are to:
o Assure an adequate flow of promis-
ing young people into the professional
recreation curricula and subsequently
into the recreation movement.
0 Improve and expand professional
recreation education assuring adequate
preparation for recreation leadership.
0 Aid in the personal growth and pro-
fessional development of recreation
workers now on the job.
0 Raise personnel standards.
0 Improve salaries and working condi-
tions under which workers must serve.
Encourage better personnel adminis-
tration and up-to-date personnel policies
and practices.

HE COMMITTEE, representing all the

NRA field .districts, thirty-four
states, Canada, and the District of Co—
lumhia, is much more than advisory. In
most instances, the sub-divisions have
wanted action with something tangible
resulting from their efforts. Conse-

Ma. SUTHERLAND is director of the
National Recreation Association Rec-
reation Personnel Service and sccretary

of the NRA National Advisory Com-

mittee on Recruitment, Training and
Placement of Recreation Personnel.

OCTOBER, 1963

quently, they have initiated and car-
ried out important projects. For ex-
ample, the committees have produced
publications and promotional picces.
They have conducted personnel and
salary studies, student inventories, and
curriculum studies. They have revised
the publication Personnel Standards in
Community Recreation Leadership
($2.00) and established the National
Institute for Recreation Executives. Re-
ports of the last five institutes have been
published and have had a wide distri-
bution. The publication, Forceful Com-
munications Throuin Visual Resources,
prepared for the Eighth National Insti-
tute, has ust been published and is now
available.

The work of the Recruitment Com-
mittee is well known, and the recruit-
ing brochure The Future is Yours and
the list of colleges reporting major rec-
reation curricula are in great demand.
Current projects include a survey of
state recruiting programs and a set of
slides with script for presenting recre-
ation leadership as a career field. The
script and slides may be purchased
from the Association. Additional slides
showing local activities may be added
if desired.

The Inservice Training Committee
produced the series of training booklets
for the training of playground leaders.
center directors, and volunteers. A cur-
rent booklet on supervision is now in
preparation. The National Internship
Program established by the committee
has given training to forty young men
and women since the spring of 1956,
with cash expenditure by the intern
cities of over $160,000.

The major project of the Placement
Committee this past year was the per-
sonnel and salary study which has been
puhlished and is now available in two
parts: Part I, Professional Salaries in
Local Public Recreation Agencies
($1.50), and Part ll, Fringe Bcnefits
and Personnel Practices in Local Public
Recreation. Agencies. ( $1.50) .

New Chairmen

EWLY APPOINT-
N ED chairmen
for three-year
terms, 1963‘1966,
are: General Chair-
man, Dr. Theodore
Deppe, associate
professor of recre-

ation, Indiana Uni-
versity; Recruitment Chairman, Robert

 

Dr. Deppe

       

, I 
Mr. T nelson Mr. Guetzlad
F. Toalson, assistant director, Play-
ground and Recreation Board, Oak
Park, Illinois; lnservice Training
Chairman, Gordon J. Guetzlaff, execu-
tive director of program, Recreation
Department, Oakland, California; Un-
dergraduate Education Chairman, H.
Douglas Sessoms, chairman, recreation
curriculum. University of North Caro-
lina; Graduate Education Chairman,

 

Dr. van der Smissen Dr. Sessoms
Dr. Betty van der Smissen, associate
professor of recreation, State Univer-
sity of Iowa; Placement Chairman,
Joseph Curtis, Commissioner of Rec-
reation, White Plains, New York; and
Placement Vice-Chairman, William
Lederer, superintendent of recreation,

Greenburgh, New York.

      

.llr. Lederer

M r. Curtis

Outgoing chairmen who have served
for three years are: General Chairman,
Vernon F . Hernlund, director of rec-
reation, Chicago Park District: Recruit-
ment Chairman, Janet R. MacLean,
assistant professor of recreation. Indi-
ana State University; Inservice Train-
ing Chairman, Forest V. Gustafson,
director of recreation, Montgomery
County, Maryland; Undergraduate
Education Chairman, Warren M. Barth-
olomew, head, recreation curriculum,
Temple University; Graduate Educa-
tion Chairman, H. C. Hutchins, coordi-
nator of recreation curriculum, Uni-
versity of Wisconsin; and Placement
Chairman. Alan L. Heil, superintendent
of recreation and parks, Montclair. New

Jersey. #
385

MARKET NEWS

 

o Floating action. A new floor installation which “floats”
on steel springs provides cushioned resilience for such
buildings as gymnasiums, multi-purpose rooms, recreation
areas, ballrooms, and other buildings where the floor is an
important feature. The floor system consists of an active
floor separated from a concrete base by spring steel leaves
of controlled flexibility. The leaves give the floor a resilient
quality, eliminate maintenance, and assure a long life. The
cushioning means greater safety for athletes by virtually
eliminating “shin splints” and reducing torn ligaments,
pulled muscles, and dislocations. The resilience reduces
the transmission of shock to the individual and as a result,
athletes, dancers, and others using the floor do not tire as
easily.

For longer life, Springaire Floors feature four and one-
half inches of open ventilating space between the wood
floor and the concrete slab. This space insulates the floor
and retards rot and deterioration due to moisture and poor
ventilation. Neither the floor or its support is rigidly con-
nected to the building. A lateral cushioning spring provides
the contact between the floor and the wall. The floating
characteristics resulting from the entire floor being free of
the concrete slah tends to equalize and accommodate a
maple floor’s normal expansion and contraction while re-
taining overall dimensional stability. This also eliminates
huckling, cupping, squeaking and the need for any mainte-
nance whatsoever. Continuous angles placed one-eighth to
one-quarter inch from the perimeter of the floor allow for
circulation of air under the floor.

The numerous spring leaves distribute the dead weight
of the floor and active loads over a wide area. The re-
siliency and firmness of the floor is the same over its entire
span. There are no hard, hollow, or dead spots. This re-
siliency plus a deadening layer of felt under each spring
leaf reduces the transmission and reflection of sound. Due
to its flexibility and adaptability, the Springaire Floor easily
accommodates electric outlets in the floor, floor inserts,
light or heavy gymnastic equipment, folding doors, bleach-
ers, and other equipment. Complete information can be
obtained by writing to Springaire Floors, 9716 Conner,
Detroit 13, Michigan.

0 Shuttling along. A new miniature weaving loom develops
handcraft skills in youngsters, offers senior citizens gratify-
ing recreation, and has therapeutic value for the handi-
capped. The Handy Loom rewards users with beautifully
woven clothing or housewares. Devised originally for chil-
dren, the Handy Loom also has practical application in phys-
ical therapy as it increases eye-to-hand coordination and
develops confidence. The loom’s versatility challenges the
imagination and offers a wide variety of patterns and prod-
ucts. It enables users to fabricate woven articles up to fifteen
feet long and nine inches wide, creating handbags, shopping
bags, doll’s clothing, home furnishings, place mats, pillow
cases, hats. scarfs, and a host of other articles.

Made of high-impact, durable red and yellow Styrene, the
Handy Loom is eleven inches wide, eighteen and a half
inches long, nine and a half inches high and is easily asscm-
bled. The boxed loorn weighs one and a half pounds and in-
cludes two booms, three ends, two sides, six wedges, a heddle,
two shuttles, a needle threader, and two skeins of yarn. For

  
 
  

further information write to Benefit Play, Inc., 99 Coleman
Road, West Haven, Connecticut.

0 Foolproof displays.
Even someone who has
never put together an
exhibit before can cre-
ate a striking display
in a matter of minutes
with a new low-cost
patented exhibit device
that can be assembled
’ as easily as a Tinker
 Toy. Recreation direc-
if tors who so frequently
need to set up a quick display for a special event, conference,
club meeting, budget hearing, state or local fair, and many
one-shot affairs, should find endless uses for it. The Ex}! ibis-
kit, result of years of interest and research in visual aids for
the amateur, is a complete modular exhibit set packaged in
a hand-luggage carrying case. The kit contains a dozen light-
weight two foot-square panels, a set of patented, slotted plas-
tic cogs called Panelocks, dimensional letters, and other
graphic materials to help make a do-it-yourself display or
exhibit look like a professional job.

The featherweight yet sturdy Fome-Cor panels can be
locked together in a variety of arrangements by the easily
attached Panelock cogs. The color-coordinated panels can
extend an exhibit vertically up to eight feet or horizontally
across a ten-foot booth. An Exhibitkit display can be set up
on a table top or on the floor. The complete kit in its 25”-by-
25”-by-4” carrying case weighs only twenty-one pounds, just
right for carrying to the station wagon or the airport as lug-
gage. A free illustrated twenty-page brochure is available

on request from Hayett Display Company, 207 West 25th
Street, New York 1.

0 Instant heat. A leak-proof, spill-proof and explosion-
proof heater stove, made in Sweden, has been designed to
keep tents, camping trailer, cahins, station wagons, and boats
comfortably warm with a maximum amount of heat (it has
an output of 3,600 BTU per hour). There is a complete
range from low-low to intense high heat. In addition, it
doubles as a top-quality cook stove. The Heat-Pal stovc has
a steel body with a red lacquered finish (the upper portion
is made of heavy-duty spun aluminum) and is equipped with
the proper numher of specially designed and placed vents.

Heat-Pal uses safe, inexpensive denatured alcohol (alco-
hol solvent) and gives up to twenty hours of hcat with a pint
and a half of fuel. The lower portion of the unit stays cool
and it can safely be used on dry grass or in a tent. The
secret of the Heat-Pal is the patented burner unit, scien-
tifically handpacked with noninflammable absorbent that
“soaks-up” the alcohol, then releases it as dcsired for hcating
or cooking in a series of gaslike flames. In tents, Heat-Pal
provides instant, safe, comfortable heat. For cooking out-
doors or indoors, it offers steady, regulated heat. It is 9”-
hy-9” when folded, 9”-by-111/2” when extended as a heater
and weighs six pounds. For further information write to

Gloy’s Import Company, 1 1 Addison Street, Larchmont, New
York.

For further information, please write directly to source given and mention RECREATION Magazine.

386

RECREATION

RESOURCE GUIDE

 

   

INEX ro ADVERTISERS

 

 

 

 

 

Page

AAPHER _______.______._______ 374
American Playground Devlce ____.._.._._.._ 363
Anderson Manufacturing ___....... _.. 363
Brunswick Sports _.. Inside Back Cover
' Castello Combative Sports 376
Classified Advertising _..-_.._._.____..___ 392
EIectro-Mech _-................___.._____._ 376
Ford Motor Company _____ _............ 349
Hanna Bats _______._..........._...._...___..__... 392
Hillerlch and Bradsby ......__ Inside Front Cover
J. E. Burke _...__._.________._._._....._.____.. 351
Kwikbilt -____________.___-.._....__.___.__..__. 389
Mexico Forge ____ WW... Back Cover
Monroe Company m ______. 392
Overseas Magazine ____ gm..." 387
Tandy leather _.. _____ __._.____._....._... 389
Toilatlex _______ ____.._..,_...___..- 384
Trophy World _____..__._.-_.._..._______ 389

 

OVERSEAS

THE MAGAIINE OF EDUCATIONAL
EXCHANGE

. Essential for the student, American

- or foreign, and for the individual
who seeks an understanding of in-
ternational educational and cul-
tural exchange. An authoritative
magazine for anyone who wishes
to study abroad. Monthly news on
programs, scholarships, iob op-

portunities, travel grants. Infor-

mation on all aspects of interna-

tional exchange. Single copies
35¢ each.

Annual Subscription: $2.00

OVERSEAS

Institute of International Education

800 Second Avenue. New York 17,
New York

OCTOBER, 1963

F AIDS—Please Write Directly To Sources Given

ARTS AND CRAFTS

FELT FANCIES. Now’s the time to start think-
ing of Christmas projects for your sewing
groups. Four-page leaflet on felt craft gives
step-hy-step cutting and sewing directions for
table runners, felt aprons, desk sets, and
hats. Felt angels, Christmas stockings, and
tree skirts are also illustrated. And if you are
curious about the origins and manufacture of
wool felt, the company will also send you an
attractive booklet on The Story of F eit. Write

to the American Felt Company, Glenville,
Connecticut.

GOOD CLEAN FUN. Did you ever consider liquid
laundry starch as a versatile art medium?
How to mix liquid starch with powdered tem-
pera for dripless easel painting, simulated
oil painting, and other imaginative projects
is described in a colorful sixteen-page hook-
let, F cm with Sta-Flo Liquid Starch, Art Ideas
for All Ages. Balloons become the working
forms for papier-maché props, masks, and
animated figures, mailing tubes hecome pup-
pets, and the kitchen sponge becomes a paint
applicator for striking posters, exhibits, wall
hangings, and draperies. And while you’re
raiding the kitchen cuphoard, try table salt,
cornstarch, and water for “magic modeling
goop” without mess. For booklet and instruc-
tion leaflet on “goop” write to the A. E.

Staley Manufacturing Company, Decatur,
Illinois.

AUDIO-VISUAL

RIGHT ON THE BUTTON. A set of Title Spots,
originally designed for movie-titling, is an
easy and rapid means of making perfectly
aligned, readable, and attractive displays, ex-
hibits, and flashcards. The set consists of four
10”-hy-13’7§" hackhoards, supported by formed
wire easels, and 448 upper- and lower-case
letters, figures, and symbols screened in red,
gold, blue, and black on white buttons. The
colorful buttons pop easily in or out of the
perforated boards and may he arranged in
any manner. Words and letters are perfectly
aligned automatically, no artistic ability is
required. The hackhoard also serves as a
convenient mounting for props, such as small
statuary, flowers, decorative cutouts, or any-
thing else the designer may conceive. For
further information write to the A/V Indus-
trial Division, Hudson Photographic Indus-
tries, Inc., Irvington-on-Hudson, New York.

ANY WAY YOU SPLICE IT. A new BMM movie
film splicer allows the user to preselect the
cutting angle when splicing or repairing SMM
film. The Adjusta-Cnt Spiicer has a control
knob with which the angle of the cutting blade
may be easily changed at the users’ discretion
to either a ninety-degree cut or a forty-degree
cut. By selecting the ninety-degree angle of
cut, the film is trimmed and joined exactly on
the frame line which provides a “no-show”
splice not visible during projection. The forty-

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

degree angle of cut is provided when the
movie projector shows a tendency to chatter
or lose its £le loop. The splicer has a per-
manent, Korona-steel cutting blade and a
built-in storage compartment for splicing tape.
For more information, write to Hudson Pho-
tographic Industries, Inc., Irvington-on-Hud-
son, New York.

EQUIPMENT

JET ACTION. Nylon rollers eliminate problems
of abrasive wear, swelling, marking, and cor-
rosion in a new swimming-pool cleaner head.
It does not disturb sediment adjacent to the
head when the pool is being cleaned. In the
Turbo-Vac, water enters the head in a down-
ward motion through orifices in the head.
The jets of water loosen and agitate debris
directly under the head. This sediment is
pulled directly into the filtering system with-
out escaping into the surrounding water. For

'further information write to C. H. Busch,

The Polymer Corporation, 2120 Fairmont Ave-
nue, Reading, Pennsylvania.

EASY MANEUVERS. Turning and maneuver-
ing to align are a time-consuming part of
line marking play and sport areas, parking
lots, safety guides, and in material handling.
Lines are relatively short and many turns
require ISO-degree swings. Usually two hun-
dred lines require two hundred turns and
realignments. The use of conventional heavy
equipment means the operator must lift part
of the machine to turn it, takes time and spe-
cial accuracy to align. A new fast-turning
mechanism that makes turning and alignment
speedy and automatic is the latest major im-
provement on Fiorline Marking Machines.
With the new turning mechanism, slight pres-
sure on the control handle raises the carriage
so the machine pivots on a free-swinging
right or left swivel wheel as desired. This
shortcuts the common oft-repeated Operations
between lines. In addition the control handle
permits convenient two-hand guidance of the
machine. The new fast-turning mechanism is
optional on all 2’75- and 5-gallon Florline
gravity-feed machines and is standard equip-
ment at no extra cost on the Combination
‘2 or 1’ machine. For further information,

write to the H. C. Sweet Company, New
Hudson, Michigan.

DON’T BLOW A GASKET. A new 36-page manual,
covering the whole field of gasket installation
in cars, trucks, tractors, marine and small
engines, contains time and money-saving tips
on gasketing procedures, importance of ade-
quate and proper preparation, and step-hy-
step procedures for head gaskets, valve and
push-cover gaskets, oil pan, manifold, pump
and rear-end gaskets, and rear main hearing
seals. All of the instructions are clearly illus-
trated with photographs and technical draw-
ings. In addition, the manual contains in-
structions for proper storage and handling;

387

explains the merits of the various types of
materials and designs; their applications to
modern sealing practice. Tells what to look
for when installing manifold gaskets, what
new materials and methods are now available
for rocker arm covers, how to use metal shim
gaskets and when to replace, what are the
time-saving steps in oil pan gasket installa-
tion, et cetera. Requests for the manual should
be addressed to Fel-Pro, Inc., Engineering
Department, 7450 North McCormick Boule-
vard, Skokie, Illinois.

PROGRAM AIDS

AND AWAY we co! A selected group of 16MM
travel and sports motion pictures are avail-
able for free-loan use to sports clubs, travel
and church groups, adult and business or-
ganizations. The films feature round-the-
world travel in such faraway places as Austria,
Italy, Germany, Iran, India, Thailand, Greece,
and Mexico. The charm of Colonial Williams-
burg; the quaintness of Plymouth and Stur-
bridge; the natural and native attractions of
the Great Smoky Mountain National Park;
the Finger Lakes; Washington, D.C.; the
sights and sounds of New York City and the
Green Mountain State, Vermont, are some of
the vacation areas of the United States visited
in the films. The sports section of the series
highlights memorable moments from the
America’s Cup Races, 1958 and 1962; landing
game fish in the warm waters of Acapulco;
fishing with Ted Williams off the Florida
keys; skiing down the slopes at Aspen, Colo-
rado; and hunting and boating in New Zea-
land. For further information write to Asso-
ciation Films, Inc., 347 Madison Avenue, New
York 17, N.Y. ( The Ted Williams film was
the award-winner in the sports and recreation
category at the 5th American Film Festival

for educational films.)

DON’T PUSH THE PANIC BUTTON! A colorful,
eight-page fire-safety booklet, Are You Ready
for a Fire? uses a series of dramatic photo-
graphs and sketches to point out the 1, 2, 3
steps to life safety in such situations as
escaping from a smoke-filled room, a stove
fire, clothing fire, public building fire, fire
fighting, et cetera. These emergencies leave
little time to think; it is imperative to plan
what we would do now . . . to replace panic
with knowledge. The booklet is designed for
handout or mailing use by fire departments,
safety directors, employee programs, civic
groups, insurance companies, and interested
organizations. A free sample and quantity
prices are available from Dray Publications,

Fire and Accident Division, Deerfield, Mas-
sachusetts.

SPLIT-SECOND DECISIONS. A new driving-
safety booklet, W hat Would You Have Done?
illustrates with true-to-life sketches emergen-
cies that drivers must be prepared to face,
such as, loss of brakes, blowout in trafiic,
blinded by oncoming lights, caught in a
slippery curve, an accident ahead, et cetera.
The booklet gives the specific action steps to
save lives in those all-too common situations.
The booklet is designed for handout or mail-
ing use by safety directors, employee pro-
grams, civic groups, insurance companiea and
interested organizations. A free sample and
quantity prices are available from Dray Pub-
lications, F ire' and Accident Division, Deer-
field, Massachusetts.

388

[OW-008T AIDS “"—

0rder these resources and references di-
rectly from source give ( enclose remittance).

LONG-TERM PUBLIC BENEFIT. The federal gov-
ernment encourages stateS and local govern-
ments to lease or purchase suitable tracts of
public domain lands and to develop them for
public outdoor recreation purposes. In 1954
Congress enacted the Recreation and Public
Purposes Act as a complete revision of the
Recreation Act of 1926. The U.S. Department
of the Interior has now issued a forty-page
pamphlet, Community Recreation and the
Public Domain, which explains the 1954 act
and other related laws. Available for $.25
from the U.S. Government Printing OEce,
Washington 25, D.C.

WHY DOES THE MOON LOOK BIGGER when it
rises? The How and Why Wonder Books of
science provide valuable resource material
for science projects for playground, camp,
and other activity groups. Latest in the se-
ries are Robots and Electric Brains by Robert
Scharff and Light and Color by Harold Joseph
Highland. The text and illustrations for this
series are checked by Oakes A. White of the
Brooklyn, New York, Children’s Museum,
and the series is edited under the supervision
of Dr. Paul E. Blackwood of the U.S. Ofiicc
of Education. This profusely illustrated (in

color) series is available for $1.00 from Gros-
set and Dunlap, 1107 Broadway, New York 10.

Zoo IN TIIE GROOVE. Youngsters can now visit
Miami’s Crandon Park Children’s Zoo by just
sitting in their living rooms. A two-sided
331/53th recording has been produced by the
Dade County Parks Department, with a jolly
clown giving two children a guided tour of
the four-acre facility. One hears the sounds
of the animals as well as a description of
them and their history. This recording is
believed to be the first to be recorded live at
a zoo in the United States. The script and
photography for the record’s cover are by Jack
Stark, information director for the county
parks department. The recording, which sells
for 31 (including tax and postage), may be
purchased at the 200 or by writing the Dade
County Parks Department, 50 SW 32nd Road,
Miami, Florida.

BEGINNING OF A NEw WORLD. Thomas Edison
invented the first industrial rescarch labora-
tory; his was the first one of the four thou-
sand in America today. From these research
laboratories and others that will be' founded
in the future, a whole new world of science
and technology is emerging. To give young
peOple a taste of the crucial importance of
thorough experimental work, some of the ex-
periments Edison and his men performed on
the electric light and other inventions have
been adapted and presented in a booklet
Edison Experiments You Can Do. These will
fascinate youngsters of scientific hent and will
provide exciting hours of experiment. The
materials required are simple: paperclips,
birthday cake candles, Christmas tree lights,

. glass tubes, et cetera. The booklet, prepared

by the Science Service of the Institution for
the Popularization of Science, is available for

3.25 from the Thomas Alva Edison Founda-
tion, 8 West 40th Street, New York 18.

FOUNDATION FOR A LIFETIME. Millions of
young Americans, in and out of school, are
today seeking to define their role in life and
to find meaningful and gainful employment in
an occupational revolution. Design for Com-
munity Action (Bulletin 248), a 36-page
pamphlet, prepared by the staff of the Di-
vision of Youth Services and Employment
Standards of the Bureau of Labor Standards,
U.S. Labor Department of Labor, tells how to
mobilize community resources to help youth
enter the world of work. Part I notes the
radically changing requirements of today’s
job market, analyzes the current youth labor
market, and makes a projection of it to 1970.
Part II details the experiences of communities
in meeting the needs of their youth and offers
ideas for programs, general and Specific.
Available for $.20 from the Superintendent

of Documents, U.S. Government Printing 0f-
fice, Washington 25, D.C.

THE KEY TO A RICHER LIFE. A brochure re-
cently issued by the Bureau of Labor Stand-
ards, U.S. Department of Labor, is addressed
to the parents of potential school “drOpouts”
and contains hints on how to keep children in
school. Recreation workers, also deeply con-
cerned with this problem, should see that the
leaflet, Keep Them in School, is known and
distributed in their communities. Available
for 3.10 from the U.S. Govcrnment Printing
thce, Washington 25, D.C.
0

MORE ON TIII: IIORIZON. The second edition
of the Graflex Audio Visual Digest contains
valuable information for the recreation field
on the use of new developments in audio-
visual technology. The 48-page pahphlet con-
tains material on “Ideas on Overhead Projec-
tion” by W. R. Crosby, machine-design in-
structor at Edison Technical High School,
Rochester, New York; “The PTOgress of Visio-
mark” (white chalkboard screen) by Alfred
H. Marks, associate professor at Ball State
Teachers College, Muncie, Indiana; and
similar material. Available for $1.00 from

Grafiex, Inc., 3750 Monroe Avenue, Rochester
3, New York.

NEARLY EICIITEEN MILLION of our fellow citi-
zens are over sixty-five years old. President
Kennedy’s Council on Aging has presented
us with an excellent analysis of this segment
of the population in The Older American, a
fact-laden 73-page report. It covers such
faccts as income, health, employment, hous-
ing, retirement planning and counseling, cre-
ative activity and recreation et cetera and also
provides a valuable appendix of source ma-
terials, tables, and charts. Available for 3.50
from the U.S. Government Printing Office,
Washington 25, D.C.

THE SUN DOES NOT RISE OR SET. It only looks
thataway. A series for neophyte readers, J uno
ior Science Books provide a fascinating intro-
duction for younger nature study groups.
Latest in the series are Magnets by Rocco V.
F eravolo and Stars by Phoebe Crosby. Avail-
able for $1.00 each from Grosset 8: Dunlap,
1107 Broadway, New York 10.

RECREATION

 

R FOR THE ILL 86 HANDICAPPED

 

+ Almost eight hundred blind men,

women, and children in New York City
'1 are enjoying the recreation programs
at The Lighthouse this year. Summer
activities were provided for six hundred
participants at the five camps operated
by The Lighthouse, an agency of the
New York Association for the Blind.
Maurice Case, Lighthouse recreation
director, claims The Lighthouse has the
largest organized recreation program
for blind peOple in the world. The costs
of the program exceeds $100,000, with
almost two-fifths spent on transporting
people to and from their homes. The
camping program costs an additional

$575,000.

For some blind people recreation is
the first step towards rehabilitation.
Pursuits for the blind range from roller-
skating to presenting plays, and include
sports and games, arts and crafts, music,
dramatics, dancing, social events, lec-
tures, reading groups, and typing
classes. The program also includes
tours, forums, folksinging, guitar les-
sons, and a college club for students

and graduates.

The Lighthouse has a new building
scheduled to open in 1.964. lt will offer
expanded recreation activities and will
house bowling and swimming facilities
and a completely equipped exercise
room. Recreation activities are part of
the twenty-nine free specialized services
provided by The Lighthouse to meet the
needs of six thousand blind men, wo-
men, and children in New York each
year.

+ A project of the Brooklyn, New

York, Section of the National Council
of Jewish Women, the Council Center
for Senior Citizens has put into effect
a new plan to extend the role of the
older adult into the community in the
form of a Volunteer Senior Service
Corps. On January 18, 1963, the pro-
gram was launched when fifteen Girl
Scouts came to the center and attended
the first of a four-session course in
crafts taught by qualified senior-citizen
center members. The course is being
given in four one-hour sessions, with
two sessions devoted to clay craft and
two to copper art. A new group of
Scouts will start the course every fifth
Friday until a total of three hundred
girls in the Wingate neighborhood of
Brooklyn will have participated.

 

DR. THOMPSON is director, National
Recreation Association Consulting,r Serv-

ice on Recreation for the III and Handi-
capped.

OCTOBER, 1963

MORTON THOMPSON, Ed.D.

Another activity of the corps is also
getting under way—enrichment of a
public-school program by senior-citi-
zen volunteers. Under the supervision
of the teaching staff of P. S. 197, vol-
unteers will help in the reading pro-
gram, sew costumes and graduation
gowns, assist in publishing the school
newspaper, participate in judging art
and science exhibits, and provide en-
tertainment for auditorium programs.

The purpose of the Volunteer Senior
Service Corps project is to open up to
the community a source of skilled man-
power to fill the volunteer jobs not
now getting done. This new Senior
Service Corps will encourage the in-
dividual to use skills and experience
acquired during his lifetime, give him
the satisfaction of meaningful activity,
and at the same time help enrich the life
of the children in the community. For
information, write to Leo Laks, Direc-
tor, Council Center for Senior Citizens,
1207 Kings Highway, Brooklyn 29,
New York—From Aging, published by
the U.S. Department of Health, Educa-

tion, and Welfare.

+ The recreation department in Aus-
tin, Texas, reports that one of its super-
visors represented the department in a
program of rehabilitation and recrea-
tion extended into Austin-area nursing
homes through an Austin-Travis County
health unit project. The week-after-
week program required much planning
and work with patients of the widest
range of capabilities and inabilities.
During the first few visits, the super-
visor discerned that a library service
would be the most generally appreciated
service for all of Austin’s nursing-home
convalescents. ln addition to hundreds
of recreation suggestions and instruc-
tions, the supervisor requested the book-
mobile service from Austin Public Li-
brary—a request readily granted. The
“Books Are Here” call is now a wel-
come break in routine for both patients
and staff.

+ Federal grants from the U.S. Chil-
dren’s Bureau, totaling $600,484, will

support seventeen research and demon-
stration projects in the field of child wel-
fare this year. Two of the grants are
aimed at helping mildly retarded chil-
dren, who far outnumber those with
severe mental retardation and who have
until now been more seriously neglected
in research. #

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

   

 

    

DISCOVER THE
ADVANTAGES OF

BRAIDING an
LACING for FUN

Your group can make hundreds of
fascinating items with Tandy’s Dura-
Flex Lacing. Lanyards, Key Chains,
Bracelets, Coat Hangers, Belts, etc.

d

 
 

 

Get Tandy’s big 32 poge book . . . Broid-
ing and Lacing . . . with 160 eosy-to-follow
step by step instructions, only 50c pp.

All these items are

easily made with
Tondyk

DU RA-FLEX

LACE

Reinforced for extro
strength, feotures, sturdy
fobric tape center covered with flame re-
sistant plostic—will not stretch or peol—23
colors, 100 yard spool, 1.25. Quontity dis-
count to scout groups.

FREE 112 PAGE CATALOG

Crommed full of kits and low-cost sup-
plies, plus discounts for grOUps.

“ 1'? A-

  
  

1ANDY LEATHER COMPANY
P. O. Box 791-XS Fort Worth, Texas

 

    

.. at satin
' ‘ LROSHYWORLD. he.
._ * . LOW FACTORY-DIRECT parcss

"  smesrsom wmrED '0

7-3,- ssu our: TROPHIES mow
.    SALE IN YOUR cm: FOR IN-
. "3an LS rommou wane ATTEN-

‘ non passrosm. - -

    
    
     
  

 
 
 
 

  

  

 

    
  

'lHE PERFECT PACKAGED SHElTER!



    

389

NEW PUBLICATIONS

 

Physical Education in the Elementary
School Curriculum (second edition],
Arthur G. Miller and Virginia Whit-
comb. Prentice-Hall, lnc., Englewood
Cliffs, New Jersey. Pp. 340, illustrated.
$5.95.

The title of this book may not arouse
interest in the recreation leader or the
recreation executive of a public recre-
ation or youth-serving agency. It is re-
viewed here for that specific reason. It
is a book that should interest those in
recreation because it has a tremendous
amount of very valuable material in it.
For example, it has an excellent section
on low-organized games, chosen care-
fully for their usefulness in developing
specifie physical skills. An excellent
section on team sports places emphasis,
as it should he, on lead-up games and
skill drills. Chapters on stunts, tumbling
and apparatus, individual and group
activities, such as tennis, horseshoes,
tetherball, et cetera, and on dance activi-
ties are detailed, carefully chosen, and
well organized.

What makes this book different from
the usual physical activity manual or
game book is its Part 3——-on integration.
The authors make no bones about the
value per se of physical education. and
they do not want to see it diluted too
much by over-integration into other
parts of the curriculum. They have
worked out, however, many excellent
ideas and suggestions for the integra-
tion of physical, social, dramatic. and
musical activities through many kinds
of themes—the circus, the various holi-
days. and such over-all themes as the
Eskimos, the Dutch. the home, the farm,
the community, Mexico, and many
others. In other words, activities must
be meaningful if they are to be of any
real and lasting value. They must be
chosen carefully with the whole child
in mind. not just his muscles. A creative
approach is necessary to a creative

program—and this book is a valuable
resource—V. ill.

A Dynamic Concept of Physical Edu-
cation for Secondary Schools, Arthur
G. Miller and M. Dorothy Massey.
Prentice-Hall, lnc., Englewood Cliffs,

New Jersey, 1963. Pp. 284, illustrated.
$6.75.

This hook does for the junior and
senior high-school physical education
program what the book above does for
the elementary school program. It em-

390

phasizes physical, social-emotional, and
intellectual objectives. It stresses prin-
ciples of learning (and recreation lead-
ers would do well to study these), goals,
flexibility for dealing with individual
differences, opportunities for both
group and individual activities, devel-
oping and maintaining interest, provid-
ing freedom of selection, and opportuni-
ties for leadership, plus ways of inte-
grating physical education activities
with other subjects. Evaluation and use
make up the other principles of teach-
ing—or leading—physical activities.

More technical, more school-oriented
than Physical Education. in the Eleuieu-
tary School Curriculum, this book
nevertheless can be a very Useful one to
leaders of youth groups in sports pro-
grams.

An Experiment in Training Volun-
teers, A Manual Based on the Sargent
House Project. Department of Social
Relations, Episcopal Diocese of Wash-
ington, Mount Saint Alban, Washing-
ton 16, D.C. Pp. 66. Paper, $1.00.

Here is an account of a research
project designed to find out whether a
daytime activity center for older people
can be operated successfully by volun-
teers if they are given training in pro-
viding such service. Begun in 195‘),
with a $30,000 grant, the project has
proved a big YES, even though it is not
yet over. The most satisfying result of
this program is the proof that older
peOple have not only time but great
skills in living to contribute, are eager
to be of service, and welcome the oppor-
tunity for training.

The Inanual’s style is easy and in-
formal, thc material heartwarming. Spe-
cifics on budget, qualifications for
leaders, application blanks, agenda for
training sessions, schedule, et cetera are
provided in the appendix.

Build-lt-Yourself Science Labora-
tory, Raymond E. Barrett. Doubleday
and Company, 575 Madison Avenue,
New York 22. Pp. 340. $4.50.

Here is a good project source book
for those interested in updating their
recreation programs to include the new
technical and science phases of recrea-
tion. The very interesting low- or no-
cost projects, using readily available
materials, are clearly illustrated and ex-
plained. A small number of the proj-
ects are dangerous if the listed safety

precautions are not followed; however,
they are no more lethal or injurious
than other recreation activities when
properly supervised. The preface and
first chapter lay the groundwork on
how to set up this type of program for
schools——-it should be more liberal in
recreation centers. The few questions
at the end of each subject are good. The
numerous questions at the end of each
section will hold the attention of only
a minority of the youngsters, but are
fine for broadening the know-how of
the leaders working on the projects.
The book contains excellent material
for day camps, particularly for rainy
days—W. A. Taylor, Resdel Corpora-
tion, W ilrlwood, New Jersey.

Food-n-Fun Craft, Eleanor Doan and
Gladys McElroy. Zondervan Publish-
ing House, 1415 Lake Drive, S.E.,
Grand Rapids 6, Michigan. Pp. 66, il-
lustrated. Paper, $1.95.

Here is a collection not of recipes,
but of unusual ways to fix and serve
food. As the authors point out, food is
fun to fix, fun to serve, fun to eat, and
fun to talk about. They organize their
ideas around types of food—cakes,
cookies, ice cream, candy, wicncrs,
gumdrops, fruit, and many others and
suggest a numher of ways of decorating
or serving them in terms of themes.
such as foreign motifs, holidays, ani-
mals, et cetera. The ideas used are all
simple and require no expensive “trim-
mings.” They may be just the thing to
intriguc a sick child. add interest to a
lunchbox, provide color and decoration
for a party, picnic, or social. They
might also be just the thing to interest
a youngster in the preparation of food.

IN BRIEF

ItéINHOLD DRAWING AND PAINTING
BOOK, Bodo W. Jaxtheiuzcr. Reinhold
Publishing Corporation, 430 Park Ave-
nue, New York 22. Pp. 407, illustrated.
$10.95. There are two parts to this hook.
Part I is a complete course of instruc-
tion in drawing, covering all techniques.
anatomy, architecture, plants, et cctcra.
Part II is a complete course in painting
with all of its techniques. Well illus-
trated in color and hlack-and-white,
hch is a real fund of knowledge for any-
one working in the field of art, and a
helpful book for any teacher or leader
in recreation. It is also a good refer-

RECREATION

   
  
  
    
  
  
  
   
 
  
   
  
  
  
    
 
   
  
  
  
 
   
  

ence guide for libraries.——-—M. B. Carn-
mings.

TIIE LENGTH AND DEPTH 0F ACTING,
Edwin Daerr. Holt, Rinehart and Win-

ston, 383 Madison Avenue, New York
' 7’. Pp. 590. $10.00. Theater aflicion-
ados and students of acting will find
this comprehensive history of the ac-
tor’s art particularly instructive and es-
pecially well documented. An extensive
list of sources for each chapter and list
of important writings on acting related
to each historical period make this “first
history of the world’s acting” thorough-
ly authentic and useful.

CROWELL’S HANDBOOK OF GILBERT AND
SULLIVAN, compiled by F ranlc Ledlie
Moore. Thomas Y. Crowell, 432 Park
Avenue South, New York 16. Pp. 264.
$4.95. This encyclOpedic guide com-
prises synopses of libretti, casts, biog-
raphies of Gilbert and Sullivan, selected
words and music of famous excerpts.
This is a handy volume for the Gilbert-
and-Sullivan producer, program anno-
tator. and enthusiast. Unfortunately, the
Handbook calls the incomparable works
operettas. They were composed as op-
eras by their authors and should be so
named.

ECHOEs OF AFRICA IN FOLK SONGS OF
THE AMERICAS, Beatrice Landeclc. Da-
vid McKay Company, 119 West 40th
Street, New York. Pp. 184. $5.95. This
collection contains folksongs of Africa,
South America, and the U.S. The ac-
companiment for percussion instru-
ments and piano are perfectly suited to
the tunes. \Vhat makes this collection
exceptionally valuable is that all the
Wonderful son’gs can be learned and
performed by young and old, and they
lend themselves to unusual and exciting
program possibilities. The songs are
educational in the sense that they are
full of characleristic rhythms and mel-
Ody and purely musical. This is a col-
lection which is out of the rich past, but
is strictly contemporaneous at the same
time.

A HISTORY OF MODERN MUSIC, Paul
Collaer. World Publishing Contpany,
2231 West 110th Street, Cleveland 2.
Pp. 413. Illustrated, $4.50. The author

warns the reader in his introduction
that he is neilher musicologist nor mu-
sic critic. Commentary on leading com-
posers and their music, allhough tech-
nical to an extent, is presented mainly
in the spirit of a expert musical layman.
This should be encouraging to the aver-
age concert—goer who wants tO gain a
deeper perspective of modcrn music.

OCTOBER, 1963

M

BOOKS & PAMPHLETS RECEIVED

M

ARTS and CRAFTS

Designs for Craftsmen, Walter Miles. Doubleday,
gg5gsMadisan Ave., New York 22. Pp. 224.

Dorset Feother Stitchery, Olivia Poss. Toplinger
 119 W. 57th St., New York 19. Pp. 85.

Drawing and Sketching: A Step-bg-Step Book,
Guy R. Williams. Spartshelf, P.O. ox 634, New
Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 103. $4.50.

Fiber Glass Proiects and Procedures, Gerald L.
Steele. McKnight £1 McKnight, Bloomington, III.
Pp. 159. $4.0 .

Faod'n'Fun Croft, Eleanor L. Dean and Gladys
McElroy. Zandervan Publ., Grand Rapids, Mich.
Pp. 66. Paper, $1.95.

Fun I: Play All the Way, Annie Blaine. Hart Publ.,
$11056h Ave., New York 11. Pp. 128. Paper,

Fun with o Sow, R. J. DeCristofora. McGrow—Hill,
330 W. 42nd St., New York 36. Pp. 204. $5.95.

Fun with Next to Nothing, Wesley F. Arnold and
Wayne C. Card . Harper (1 Row, 49 E. 33rd St.,
New York 16. p. 78. $2.95.

Furniture You Can Build. Lane Books, Menla Park,
.COIIT. Pp. 128. Paper, $1.95.

Gifts from the Land, Virginia Whitman. Muhlen-
berg Press, 2900 Queen La., Philadelphia 29.
Pp. 164. $5.95.

Gloss Croft, Kay Kinney. Chilton Baaks, Chestnut
at 56th Sts., Philadelphia 39. Pp. 179. $7.50.
Grade School Scropcrofts, F. Augustine and G.
Neary. Instructional Center, 222 Kearny Ave.,

Perth Ambay, N.J. Pp. 60. Paper, $1.25.

Graphic Arts Crafts (2nd ed.), Desire Kauffmann.
D. Van Nostrond, 120 Alexander St., Princeton,
N.J. Pp. 260. $5.95.

Hand Bookbinding: A Manual of Instruction,
Aldren A. Watson. Reinhold Publ., 430 Park
Ave., New York 22. Pp. 93. $6.00.

Hondwrought Jewelry, Lois E. Franke. McKnight
Publ., Bloomington, III. Pp. 222. $7.96.

How to Make Children's Furniture and Play
Equipment, Morio Dal Fabbra. McGraw-—Hi||,
330 W. 42nd St., New York 36. Pp. 192. $6.50.

Interior Art and Decoration: Craft Projects and
Decorating Ideas. Sunset Books, Menlo Park,
Calif. Pp. 96. Paper, $1.75.

Mode in the Renaissance: Arts and Crafts of the
Age of Exploration, Christine Price. E. P. Dut-
t$c5n_,5201 Park Ave. S., New York 3. Pp. 120.

Meaning of Modern Sculpture, The, R. H. Wilen-
ski. Beacon Press, 25 Beacon St., Boston 8. Pp.
171. Paper, $1.95.

Metal Art Crofts (2nd ed.), John G. Miller. D.
Van Nastrand, 120 Alexander St., Princeton,
N,J. Pp. 165. $2.50.

Mosoics: Design Construction and Assembly, Rob-
ert Williamson. Hearthside Press, 118 E. 28th
St., New York 16. Pp. 103. $6.95.

One Hundred and One Patchwork Potterns, Ruby
Short McKim. Dover Publ., 180 Varick St., New
York 14. Pp. 124. Paper, $1.85.

One Hundred and One Things a Boy Can Do
Around the House, Arthur Symons. Sterling
 419 Park Ave. S., New York 16. Pp. 128.

One Hundred and One Ways to Improve Your
Knitting, Barbara Abbey. Viking Press, 625
Madison Ave., New York 22. Pp. 61. $2.00.

Reinhold Drawing and Painting Boak, Bada W.
Jaxtheimer. Reinhold Publ. 430 Park Ave.,
New York 22. Pp. 408. $10.95.

Rug Hooking, The Complete Book of Barbara J.
Zarbock. D. Van Nostrand, 120 Alexander St.,
Princeton, NJ. Pp. 120. $6.75.

Secret of Finger Pointing, The, Roy Miller. Bruce
Miller Publ. Box 369, Riverside, Calif., Pp. 25.
Paper, $1.00.

Seeing with Pencil and Brush, Arthur Zoidenberg.
Harper Bras., 49 E. 33rd St., New York 16. Pp.
171. $4.95.

Sew for Your Children, Mary Jahnsan. E. P. Dut-
51,5800 Park Ave. S., New York 10. Pp. 238.

Ship Model Building 13rd ed.l, Gene Johnson.
Cornell Maritime Press, Cambridge, Md. Pp.
301. $4.00.

Singer Home Decorations Sewing Baak. Grasset
£1 Dunlap, 1107 Broadway, New York 10. Pp.
128. $4.95.

Singer Sewing Book, Mor Brooks Picken. Grasset
C1 Dunlap, 1107 Broo way, New York 10. Pp.
260. $4.95.

Slate Sculpturing, Mickey Klar Marks. Dial Junior
gookss, 461 Park Ave S., New York 16. Pp. 44.

2.7 .

COOKBOOKS, FOOD

Contemporary French Cooking,Waver|ey Root and
Richard de Rachemont. Random House, 457
Madison Ave., New York 22. Pp. 211. $4.95.

Caok Until Dane, George Bradshaw and Ruth Nar—
man. M. Barrows, 425 Park Ave. S., New York

16. Pp. 181. $4.50.
Coak As the Romans Do, Myra Wolda. P. F. Col-

iier, 640 5th Ave., New York 19. Pp. 178. Pa—
per, $.95.

Cookbook of Fabulous Foods, The, Caralyn Cag-
gins. Pyramid Books, 444 Madison Ave., New
York 22. Pp. 314. $.60. .

Cooking, Philip Harben. Penguin Books, 3300 Clip-
peésMill Rd., Baltimore 11. Pp. 282. Paper,

Fomily Cook Book, The Sunday News, Alice Peter—
sen and Ella Elvin. Rawman and Littlefield, 84
5th Ave., New York 11. Pp. 319. $5.95.

Fine Art of Chinese Cooking, The, Dr. Lee Su Jan.
Egngs-Merrill, Box 558, Indianapolis 6. Pp. 246.

Food Hints for Mature People, Charles Glen Kin
with George Britt. Public Affairs Pamphlets, 2
E. 38th St., New York 16. Pp. 28. $.25.

Galden Bonquet Book, The, Marietta Abel and
Agnes J. Anderson. T. S. Denisen (1 Ca., 321
5th Ave. S., Minneapolis 15, Minn. Pp. 432.

$3.95.
Gourmet Cooking with o Floir, David Wade.
Pp. 188.

5li’rlregicgice-Hall, Englewaod Cliffs, N. J.

Great Recipes from Great Restouronts, Myra
Woldo. Collier Books, 60 5th Ave., New York
11. Pp. 256. Paper, $.95.

Home Book of Italian Cooking, The, Angela Cat-
anzoro. Fowcett Publ., Greenwich, Conn. Pp.
224. $.50.

James Beard Cookbook, The. E. P. Duttan, 300
Park Ave. S., New York 10. Pp. 544. $4.95.
Lauisiano Cookery, Mary Land. Louisiana State
Univ. Press, Baton Rouge 3. Pp. 376. $5.00.
Luncheon Cookbook, The, Ruth Langland Halberg.
Thomos Y. Crowell, 432 Park Ave. S., New York

16. Pp. 198. $3.95.

Much Depends on Dinner, Peter J. Rabotti. Foun-
tainhead Publ., 475 5th Ave., New York 17.
Pp. 306. $8.50 (deluxe-boxed $10.00}.

Nick Monero's Cook-Out Barbecue Book. Fowcett
Books, Greenwich, Conn. Pp. 144. $.75.

Na Cooking Cookbook, The, Lilian Langseth-
Christensen. Coword-McCann, 200 Madison
Ave., New York 16. Pp. 255. $4.95.

Toll House Cookbook, Ruth Wakefield. Popular Li-
brory, 355 Lexington Ave., New York 17. Pp.
376. $.75.

Too Many Cooks, William Wiesner. J. B. Lippin-
cott, E. Washington Sq., Philadelphia 5. Un-
paged. $2.75.

Vogue's French Cookery Book, "Francine." St.
Martin's Press, 175 5th Ave., New York IO. Pp.
200. $4.95. .

Wide World Cookbook, Rebecca Shapiro. Little,
Brown, 34 Beacon St., Boston 6. Pp. 58. $2.95.

Wonder of Food, The, K. Cyrus Melikion and Lloyd
K. Rudd. Appleton-Century-Crafts, 35 W. 32nd
St., New York 1. Pp. 246. $5.00.

GAMES, HOBBIES, PARTIES

Beat the Dealer, Edward O. Tharp. Random
House, 457 Madison Ave., New York 22. Pp.
236. $4.95. .

Book of Magic, John Mulholland. Charles Scrib-
ner’s Sons, 597 5th Ave., New York 17. Pp.
329. $6.50.

City Street Games, Jocelyn and Lee Ames. Holt,
Rinehart and Winston, 383 Madison Ave., New
Yark17. Unpa ed. $1.95.

Complete Book 0 Entertaining, The, Nata Lee.
Hawthorn Books, 70 5th Ave., New York 11.
Pp. 349. $5.95.

Esquire's Book of Gambling, David Newman, Edi-
tor. Har er (1 Row, 49 E. 33rd St., New York
16. Pp. 33. $5.95.

Fun with Brand-New Gomes, Allan and Paulette
Macfarlan. Association Press, 291 Broadway,
New York 17. Pp. 255. $3.50.

Games and Activities (2nd ed.), Joseph Edmund-
san. Spartshelf, P.0. Box 634, New Rochelle.
Pp. 142. $3.75.

Games for Grownups, Marguerite Kahl and Fred-
erico Young. Cornerstone Library, 630 5th Ave.,
New York 20. Pp. 176. Paper, $1.00.

Gay Parties for All Occasions, E. O. Harbin.
Abington Press, 201 8th Ave., Nashville 3,
Tenn. Pp. 351. Paper, $1.75.

Heads I Win, Tales You Lose, Charlotte Olmsted.
gallaggillan, 60 5th Ave., New York 1 1. Pp. 277.

Humoraus Acts far Stunt Programs, Louis J. Huber.
T. S. Denisan, 32! 5th Ave. S., Minneapolis 15,
Minn. Pp. 377. $3.95.

Play Mathematics, Harry Langman, Ph.D. Hofner
 31 E. 10th St., New York 3. Pp. 216.

Solitaire Chess, T. A. Horowitz, Editor. G. P. Put-
nam's Sons, 200 Madison Ave., New York. Un-
paged. Paper, $2.50.

Stamp Collecting: How to Go About It, S. C.
Johnson. Spartshelf, P.O. Box 634, New Ra—
chelle, N.Y. Pp. 64. Paper, $.75.

SPORTS, PHYSICAL EDUCATION

Administration of School Health and Physical Ed-
ucation Programs (3rd ed.), Charles A. Bucher.
C. V. Masby, 3207 Washington Blvd., St. Louis
3. Pp. 498. $6.25.

Basic Skills in Sports for Men and Women l3rd
ed.l, Armbruster, Irwin and Musker. C. V.
Masby, 3207 Washington Blvd., St. Louis 3.

391

392

._ I

.3 -
ATHS’IIB.’13

HANNA

BAT ITF

<
Z
Z
<
I

N.
3.

Tape, cork or fiber-
glass grips give non-
slip swings . . . bring

in more wins!

 

lip 9&08 lplus 45—poge Test Monuoll. Paper.

4. .

Bench Weight Training, Petros Elio. Sportshelf,
$P‘.¢)_O_‘;SBo>< 634, New Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 104.

Body Building (Group Method), Chorles A. Peose.
Ronold Press, 15 E. 26th St., New York 10.
Pp. 211. $4.25.

Book of Rugby Football #2, The, Bryn Thomos,
Editor. Sportshelf, P.O. Box 634, New Rochelle,
N.Y. Pp. 125. $4.25.

Centre Half, Wolter Winterbottom. Sportshelf,
P.0. Box 634, New Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 32.
Poper, $1.00.

Dawn of Swimming, The, Ken Knox. Sportshelf,
P.O. Box 634, New Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 240.
$5.00.

Defensive Football, Som Huff. Ronold Press, 15
Eost 26th St., New York 10. Pp. 117. $4.00.

Drownproofing: A New Technique for Woter
Sofety, Fred Lonoue. Prentice-Hall, Englewood
Cliffs, N.J. Pp. 112. $3.95.

Dynamic Concept of Physical Education, A, Ar-
thur G. Miller, Ed. D. Cr M. Dorothy Mossey,
Ed. D. Prentice-Holl, Englewood Cliffs, N.J.
Pp. 284. $6.75.

Field Hockey: An International Teom Sport, Helen
T. Mockey. Prentice-Holt, Englewood Cliffs,
N.J. Pp. 174. $6.60.

Griff Boresan's Korting Handbook. Arco Publ.,
480 Lexington Ave., New York I7. Pp. 145.
$2.50.

Heavyweight Champions, The, John Duront. Host-
ings House, 151 E. 50th St., New York 22. Pp.
150. $3.75.

High School Basketball, Coaching, Managing,
Administering, Williom A. Heoley. interstate
Printers ond Publ., 19-27 N. Jockson St., Don-
ville, lll. Pp. 537. $6.00. '

History of the World's Sports Cars, A, Richord
Hough. Horper Bros., 49 E. 33rd St., New York
16. Pp.214. $I2.50.

Hover Craft, A. Croome. lvon Oblensky, 219 E.
61 st St., New YOrk 21. Pp. 72. $2.95.

How to Master the Irons, Gene Littler. Ronold
Press, I5 E. 26th St., New York. Pp. 1 18. $5.00.

How to Succeed ot Touch Football, Frederic A.

Birmingham. Mocmillon, 60 5th Ave., New .

York I I. Pp. 156. $2.95.

Physical Education Activities Handbook, D. K.
Stanley, 1. F. Woglow. Allyn ond Bocon, 150
Tremont St., Boston 11. Pp. 270. Paper, $5.25.

Physical Educotion ond Rebound Tumbling, Rich
Horris. Bornes Publ., 106 Ist St. S.W., Cedar
Rapids, lowo. Pp. 48. Poper, $1.50.

Tackle Ski-ing This Way, Robert Skepper. Sport-
shelf, P.0. Box 634, New Rochelle, N. Y. Pp.
128. $3.75.

Young Sportsman's Guide to Diving, The, Robert
Clotworthy. Thomas Nelson, 18 E. 4Ist St., New
York 17. Pp. 95. $2.50.

 manna:
mice; 1

TABLE AND “W
CHAIR raucxs

 

     
    
  

  

“FOLDING
PEDESTAL TABLES

Direct from factory sav-
ing to Churches, Schools,
" ‘- Clubs, lodges and all organi-
 zatians. MONROE I963

      
   

 
        

Folding Banquet Tables are
unmatched for quality, dura-
'°""'°"‘ bility, convenience and hand-
some appearance. 94 models and sizes for
every use. Write for prices, catalog.

FREE-BIG 1963 CATALOG

Calar pictures. Full line MONROE tables, chairs,
table and chair trucks, platform-risers, part-
abte partitions. Write today!

THE MONROE 00., 181 Church St., Colfax, Ia_wa

    
      
   
   
     

 

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING

RATES: Words in regular type $.15 each
Words in boldface type $.25 each
Minimum ad accepted . $3.00

DEADLINES: Copy must be received by
the fifth of the month preceding date of
the issue in which ad is desired.

COPY: Type—or cieariy print—your message and the address to which you wish
repiies sent. Underline any words you want to appear in boldface type.

Send copy with remittance to:

 

mlici
manna" "

along ’31!!— .-

3:3

~—

RECREATION Classified Advertising, 8 West Eighth Street, New York 11, New York.

 

"ELI" \VAN'I‘ED
Recreation Director, Fe-
male; plan and supervise
program for 200 adolescent
girls in state correctional
school; full-lime assistant.
(livil Service. salary range
$487-$592. Require RA plus
experience. Send full in—
formation to Robert .1.
llartford, Sliperintcndent.
llome School for Girls,
Saul: Centre, .\linnesota.

Recreation Assistant Di-
rector: Three positions to
be filled, 80010-88300. Kc)"
professional, administra-
live, and supervisory posi-
tions in large city depart-
ment currently being re-
organized. Minimum re-
quirement: college degree
and four years professional
and supervisor) experience.
\falr' or Female. Submit
brief resume of education
and experience when writ-
ing for application. Abso-
lute deadline for filing:
October 17. Seattle Civil
Service, Seattle \lunicipal

Building, 600 Fourth Ase-

nue, Seattle, Washington.
Write immediately. (Bill
Sltnmard, Seattle's Direc-
tor of Recreation, will at-
tend National Recreation
( .ongress.)

Planning Associate: Re-
quired to stall Recreation-
lnfurmal Education Section
and other duties according
to interest and abilities.
--\ction-oriented community
planning council in metro-
politan city fpopulalion
1.345.000) fifty miles from
Gulf Coast. Excellent rec-
reational, cultural, educa-
tional, and other attrac-
tions. Good personnel plan,
professional benefits, etc.
Qualifications: Consider-
able experience in leisure-
timc. services ilt'lil; demon-
strated consultant abilities
with voluntarily financed
and tax-supported agen-
cies; knowledge of commu-
nity organization; personal
references, etc. Salary
range $8,208-310,992. Send
resume to Myles MacDon-
ald, Director of Planning

.\clivilies, Community

Council, 215 Main Street.
Houston, Texas 77002.

\Vanterl: Director for com-
munity recreation center
and recreation program for
youth, adults, and senior
citizens. B.S. degree and
experience in recreation re-
quired. References. Com-
munity Recreation Com-
mittec, 76 State Street, Sen-
cca Falls, New York. Tel.
508-6933. Area code, 315.

Therapists for California
State Hospitals. Opportu-
nity to plan and conduct
individual patient recrea-
tion as well as special
group activities; modern
equipment and facilities
available. Positions open to
college graduates with nm-
for in recreation or recrea-
tion therapy, which includ-
ed supervised field work.
No experience required.
Starting salary $463.00 per
month; liberal employee
benefits. Write State Per-
sonnel Board, 801 Capitol
Avenue, Sacramento, Cali-
fornia.

The publisher assumes no responsibility for services or items advertised here.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

RECREATION

 

Want to put new life in the old team?

Here’s how. Get Brunswick sports equip- feel. Brunswick equipment can make any
ment for your teams. Better sports equip- team enthusiastic. Try it and see what won-
ment just naturally makes for a better game. derful things happen.

And the best equipment comes from .

Brunswick, including the quality lines of  D

MacGregor, Red Head and Union Hard- 8 P O R T S D
MacGregor, Red Head. Union Hardware

 

ware. Teams are only as enthusiastic as they 623 s. Wabash Ave.. Chicago 5, Illinois

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. ,

  
 
 
 

MORE IMAGINATION!
MORE SAFETY!
MORE DURABILITY!

MORE FUN I

 
    

\\

TOMORROW’S PLAYGROUNDS TODAY I'

Imaginative quality and long life are built into every piece pro- Mott this coupon today to: Mr. William Kennedy

duced by the famed creative craftsmen of Mexico Forge. Here are ""5 MEX'CO FORGE: 'NC-
a few reasons why this playground equipment is acclaimed by chil- “'0' #" Re‘idMH‘i' P°""°'
dren and adults alike: Colorful beauty, durability, practicality,

Please send me further informotion on:

safety, fun . . . all are merged to give today's playgrounds ingen- a COWbOY Climber f5tagec°°ch Climber
UOUS excitement. b lookout Slide 9 Doddy-long-legs Climber

c Fire Engine Climber h All-Steel Park Stove
More than that, Mexico Forge makes the most easily assembled and d Mushroom Slide iHeGVY*DutY Picnic Table
maintained equipment in the quality playground field. Ask anyone ° Bum” 3mm and BenChes
who has used some. Mexico Forge also supplies a full line of hand- Please send me full information on the Mexico Forge line A
some, sturdy equipment for park and patio. A small sampling is N

.e. ame

shown above. May we show and tell you more?

THE MEXICO FORGE, INC. .&

Company Nome

Q
-_“_—___

Address

