 

ECRETION

IONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION NOVEMBER 1963

Henry Pfeiffer Librar
Mac Murray College

Jacksontillea. {11,180.19

"0V6 1953-

 

 

 

KEEP KIDS SAFE & HAPPY—HOUR AFTER HOUR

u%\lc\v“ 

ESPECIALLY DESIGNED FOR

PARKS, PLAYGROUNDS Gt RECREATION AREAS

A “Buek ’n Bounee” Playground is the easiest, least expensive way to attraet and entertain kids—
for hours on end! Any eomhination of these delightful, eolorfnl, liouney Animals, Jet-Away
Swings, Roto-Tots and Cirens-Go-Rouuds is possible in a eomparatively small area. All are rugged,
,safe. self-propelled: need no attendant—no maintenanee. Every pieee of equipment has been
' ehild-tested for extended periods and been proven to attraet ehildren for hours on end—day after
day. “Bnek ’n Bonnee” Playground equipment eontbines healthful aetivity with enduring pleasure,
whieh assures you of inereasiug attendance and the full cooperation and approval of all parents.

30””‘3‘! BUCK ’n BOUNCE PRODUCTS by Fun In The Sun of Florida, Inc.

swmo! , s
SWAy. "" - “" WEST WATER STREET ' ROCKLAND 4, MASS. Phone 878-2920
' W

1964 National Recreation Association District Conferences

DISTRICT DATES lOCATION HOTEL

l6th Annual California and February 22-26 Anaheim. California Disneyland Hotel
Pacific Southwest

Recreation and Pa rk
Conference

Southern March 3l-April 2 Columbia, South Carolina Wade Hampton
Southeastern Section

Southwest March 3I-April 3 Dallas, Texas Statler Hilton

Great Lakes April I-3 Milwaukee, Wisconsin Schroeder

Pacific Northwest April I2-I5 Billings, Montana Northern

Midwest April I4—I7 Colorado Springs, Colorado Antlers
Middle Atlantic May l0-l3 Baltimore, Maryland Lord Baltimore

New England May l7-20 Groton. Connecticut Griswold Hotel
and Country Club

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

Team Spirit can Soar

Make way for merriment. Your Hardware and Red Head lines, too.
Brunswick sports equipment has just Try Brunswick sports equipment and
arrived. Talk about team spirit soar- stand by for flying action.

ing, this is it: the sports equipment

better teams are made of. Brunswick  {9
sports equipment, of course. Includes 8 P O R T S

- MacGregor, Red Head, Union Hardware D
the Complete MaCGregora UHIOn 623 S. Wabash Ave. Chicago 5. Illinois

 

AMEMBEH, 1963 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 395

RECREATION

 

NOVEMBER 1963 VOL. LVI NO. 9 PRICE 60c
THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

GENERAL ____.____.___._____.__—____._—

Tested Ideas for Recreation Month . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 396

November is the time to lay the groundwork for a successful observance
Have You a Recreation Philosophy? (Editorial) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

“The unexaniined life is not worth living” . . . . . . Earl F. Zeigler, Ph.D. 399

F amily Fun with Card Games . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . loan H. Wood 400
W hat other recreation activity can boast as many participants?

Our New Antomated World . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . David Gray 401
Its implications for recreation are enormously complex

Pioneering Legislation for Handicapped .............. .. Frank M. Robinson 403
Trail-blazing program in Massachusetts adds to community services

State Recreation Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ralph .l. Andrews 404

Proper recognition of recreation’s role demands a separate agency

PROGRAM

 

Can Community Recreation Meet the Needs of Youth ? . . . .
M isused leisure can warp the individual and injure society

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. James A. Wylie 406

 

Cornfield Chemical Clnl) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Joellen Castle 409
A do-itoonrselves eniployee project

The Magic of Christmas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Gordon ]. Cuetzla§ 411
An unusual program cements new friendships; builds new undcrstanding

Santa’s Safety List . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 412
Keep the spirit in Christmas burning but fireproof

ADMINISTRATION

New Aqnatorium “On Target” .................................... .. Arnold]. Robles 413
A new concept makes a big splash

Notes for the Administrator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 417
Effective record keeping and planning

Swinnning Pool Filtcrs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Stan Hedwell 418
The answer to public health hazards

State and Local Developments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Elvira Dclany 420
Thirtyothree clocks sprinkle Phoenix golf course

DIGEST

Recreation and Family Needs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ruth S. chferteller 423
A new dimension in programing

What Is Cylicrnctics? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jack J. Honomichl 425

The impact of a revolutionary ncw scientific develOpment

MONTHLY

Letters 395
Handicapped 427
Resource Guide 431

As \Ve Go To Press 397
Reporter’s Notebook 428
Personnel 433

Rx for the III and
Market News 430
New Publications 434

 

RECREATION is published monthty except July and August by the National Recreation Association,
a service organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 8 West Eighth Street, New York 11,
New York, is on file in public libraries and is indexed in the Readers’ Guide. Subscription $5.00 a
year. Canadian and foreign subscription rate $5.75. Re-entered as second-class matter April 25.
1950, at the Post Office in New York. New York. under Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing
at special rate of postage provided for in Section 1103. Act of October 3, 1917. authorized May 1.
1924. Microfiims of current issues available from University Microfiims, 313 N. First Street, Ann
Arbor, Michigan.

   
  

DUCATIONAL The articles herein printed are Copyright. 1963, by the ‘m.

R E S S the expression of the writers and National Recreation Association. .‘i '3
5 5 0 c I ATION not a statement of policy of the . .O'

O F . _ o -
AM ER I CA National Recreation Association.

Incorporated .

a

Printed in the U.S.A. 

394

 

 

Editor in Chief
JOSEPH PRENDERCAST

Editor
DOROTHY DONALDSON

Assistant Editor
ELVIRA DELANY

Associate Editor for Program
VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

Business Manager
FRANK ROWE

Advertising Manager
ESTA GLUCK

 

On the Cover
TAKEOFF. The flash of irides-

cent color and the sound of wings
makes one think of November. Who
has not thrilled to a glimpse of
swift flight, of wild ducks against
the sky? This photo is unusual for
its feeling of action and clear move-
ment against the mist of a lagoon
near Lake Michigan. Taken by Wil-
liam l... Carpenter, aged seventeen,
it won a special award in one of the

Eastman Kodak High School Photo

Contests.

Next Month

Jingle bells, falling snow, and
Christmas! The report of the Saint
Louis National Recreation Con-
gress will he included in the De-
cember issue, as usual, and pictures
of highlights of that week of meet-
ings. lneluded will he the report
delivered in a general session by
Dr. Edith Ball, president of the
American Recreation Society, on
the progress of the ABS-NRA Re-
lationships Study Committee, as of
September 20, 1963. and the action
of the AIPE Board, presented hy
Alfred LaCasse, executive director
of the American Institute of Park
Executives, among the other arti-
cles will he a symposium “0n Rec-
reation Literacy” and a timely arti-
cle on “Urban-Oriented Recrea-
tion,” by Louis Twardzig of Michio
gan State University.

Why not give each member of
your staff and board of commission
his own subscription to RECREA-
TION for Christmas? You will he
doing yourself a favor as well, for
RECREATION Magazine will speak
for you, interpret your concepts,
projects, help with your staff train-
ing, keep everyone informed.

Photo Credits

Page 404, Barbara Kelley; 407,
Chicago Park District; 414-15,
Robert C. Cleveland, Pacific Pali-

sades, California.

RECREATION

LETTERS

 

Tiled Playgrounds
Sirs:

In your April 1963 issue I found a
description about safe surfacing for
children’s playgrounds which was of
particular interest to me as director of
the Municipal Board of Physical Edu-
cation and Sport in Amsterdam [The
Netherlands]. We have approximately
four hundred playgrounds. We use tiled
pavement under the apparatus. Tiles
are not the best surfacing material be-
cause of the hardness which cannot
eliminate accidents, especially head in-
juries. I am looking for various kinds
of playground surfacing which are both
cushioning and durable. Maybe the
molded rubber mats of the interlocking
type are the answer. Could you tell me
the name of the manufacturer of this
product and the ingredients of the rub-
ber? Has this playground surfacing al-
ready been introduced in Europe?

E. KUPERS, Ja., Director of the Ma-

nicipal Board of Physical Education

and Sport, Amsterdam, T he Nether-
lands.

Wheelchair Sports
Sirs:

I noted your brief article “Wheel-
chair Bowling” (September) with mixed
feelings. I am, naturally, pleased that
such programs for the handicapped are
being developed throughout the coun—
try. It is encouraging to know that rec-
reation professionals, agencies, and de-
pa rtments are aware of the needs of the
handicapped and are making progress
in providing recreation opportunities
for them.

I question, hawever, the methods em-
played in this and, no doubt, other pro-
grams for the handicapped; specifically,
the use of special apparatus, such as
“slides for ball delivery.” In this in-
stance, the sport of bowling has been
reduced to merely aiming the slide;
“bowling” is thus a misnomer. With the
use of such devices, score of “well over
100” indicates very little about mastery
of the sport, and to the extent that par-
ticipants become dependent on these
devices, our goals' (and the satisfaction
of their needs) are undermined, for to
be independent seems a more worthy
objective than a high score.

People in wheclchairs should be given
the confidence and opportunity to bowl
at any establishment, alone or with
friends, without the assistance, of friends
or devices. The desire and ability to do
so is inherent. ,

In adapting sports and rccreation ac-
tivities for wheelchair participants,
changes should bc made only when es-

NOVEMBER, 1963

sential to accommodate the wheelchair
or insure the safety of the individual.
For example, in wheelchair basketball,
the dribbling rule is modified but the
basket remains ten feet from the floor.

There is a four team bowling league
in Champaign, Illinois, comprised en-
tirely of wheelchair bowlers. They howl
once a week during the bowling season
with no human or mechanical assistance
whatsoever. The league is sanctioned
by the American Bowling Congress. Ex-
cepting the wheelchair itself, it is no

different from other handicap (scoring)
leagues.

These bowlers would he the first to
admit that their averages are terrible
(around 100) . A 400 series is a source
of pride, because it is hard earned. I
hope the wheelchair bowlers of Colu-
rado Springs may someday earn the
same pride, from the same accomplish-
ment.

THOMAS L. GOODALE, Champaign,

Illinois.

0 For other news about recreation for
the handicapped see "Pioneering Leg-
islation Provides Recreation for Handi-
capped,” Page 403 and “Rx for the III
and Handicapped," Page 427.—Ed.

COIN—LOK I
 "  Preferred ijn' PittSPurgh. 

Allegheny
County

ah! i

 

Pittsburgh's spectacular new all-weather Civic Arena features a huge
retractable dome roof of stainless steel for weather-proof, corrosion re-
sistant, self-cleaning longevity. Similarly, the designers specified Coin-
Lok Stainless Steel Coin-Operated Lockers—250 of them—for these
same durability characteristics, plus improved efficiencies and labor
savings. The Arena is jointly owned by the Public Auditorium Authority
of Pittsburgh, and Allegheny County.

Elsewhere in Allegheny County, recreation officials enjoy two-season
Coin-Lok use by moving lockers from their North and South Park swim-
ming pools to nearby ice skating rinks. The County utilizes more than
800 Coin-Lok Lockers at these and other locations.

 
 

COIN-LOK SYSTEMS, INC.
Dept. 115, 211 Congress Street
Boston 10, Mass.

Please send, without obligation, com-
plete information and specifications
of New Coin-Lok* Locks and Lockers.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

   
   
 
 

For further information contact:

COIN-LOK* SYSTEMS, INC.

A Subsidiary of
AMERICAN LOCKER 00., INC.

*T. M. American Locker Co., Inc.

nus,

Oldest and Largest
Coin Lock Manufacturers

Name . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

 

395

 

WITH nIll-O-chlc CONTROL

The SCOREBRAIN is as easy to
operate as dialing your own tele-
phone. ONLY ELECTRO -MECH
brings you this exciting new score-

board and control system. And,
model for model, SCOREBRAINS

cost far less than others.
BASKETBALL SCOREBOAHDS

Model 2145 - 96”x31”x8” $495.00
Model 2185 ~144”x36”x8” $895.00
Model 214SF- 96”x62”x8” $940.00
Model 2185F-144”x72”x8"$1540.00

      
  
   
  

THERE ARE NO HIDDEN COSTS

“M \\\\_I"

electro-mech corp.

:24 NEW SHEET 0 MACON, GEORGIA
r” mom mam o AREA coo: n2

FEE

DIRECT PRICE /. _ _
CATALOG --// 

II" I
. If
,P
\ /i 
‘ - I
,, A  I

Excluswe
QUALITY '

  all/‘0?

Arch—noloot
FOLDING TABLES

or knee x4
Thousands of parksI schools, clubs. churches

  
 

  
   

  
  
 
    
  

Interlerence
and other organizations save money with our
direct factory prices on folding tables, chairs.
risers. etc. Send today for. FREE color catalog
on all our rugged. institutIonal equrpment.

   
      
   
 

Folding and
Stacking
Chairs

hole and Chair
Storm Truth .5

" Portable In. Partitions

   

Round and Square tables

i
l 181 Church Street
Colfax, lowa

396

THE MONROE CO.

TESTED'IDEAS FUR RECREATION MONTH

Now is the time to start organising for a BIG observance

NOVEMBER is the time to organize
your city-wide committees for
June ls National Recreation Month
events and start sketching the outlines
of your observance of Recreation Sun-
day . . . Recreation Sahhath . . . Youth
Fitness Week . . . Family Recreation
Week . . Recreation and the Arts
Week . . . and Recreation Through
Service Week! Your observance should
tell the story of the why as well as the
what of recreation today —— and that
means involving the whole community.

The theme of “Free Time: A Challenge
to Free Men” will be continued in 1964.
Build on the good Work begun this
year and on the following battery of
tested ideas:
0 In Dallas, Texas. L. B. Houston, di-
rector of parks and recreation and
member of the National- Recreation
Association Board of Trustees, devel-
oped a special program manual supple-
ment on June, National Recreation
Month, outlining special events for each
of the above weeks. Youth Fitness Week
introduced a physical fitness program
organizing walking clubs, giving swim-
ming tests. Famin Recreation Week
featured a family game night, family
picnics, barbecues. swims, parent-child
games and tournaments. Recreation
and the Arts Week called for displays of
arts and crafts and books and pictures
on the arts, a poster-making contest, a
talent show. a costumed story hour,
tryouts for a one-act play, community
singing and concerts. Recreation
Through Service Week staged a grand
finale. with adult and junior volunteers
receiving special recognition and a
community program honoring the play-
ground council.
0 From Lubbock. Texas, Mrs. Lou
Keay. l'nited Fund public relations di-
rector, sends a detailed report showing
what imagination and organization can
do with the NRA Recreation Month kit
materials. Mrs. Keay recognized that
the theme is made to order for the re-
cruitment of volunteers and she built
her campaign around this.

The United Fund Poster News for
May headlined the coming observance
to some five hundred businesses,
churches. and schools. The Vohuiteer
Newsfetter, reaching eight hundred
registered volunteers and the agencies
that call upon the Volunteer Bureau,
urged, “Exchange a little leisure for a
lot of satisfaction.” A news release an-
nounced the ohservanee and stressed
that the National Recreation Associa-
tion is a United Fund agency serving
the entire community.

Adaptations of radio spots from the

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

NRA kit were sent to eight local sta-
tions. TV scripts on the theme, “Free
Time: A Challenge to Free Men,” in-
cluded presentations of the services of
the Girl Scouts, Candy-Stripers (hospi-
tal aides), Red Cross, Camp Fire Girls,
YW and YMCA, Volunteer Bureau, and
a neighborhood center.

0 1n Cedar Rapids, Iowa, J. Nevin
Nichols, superintendent of recreation,
made Recreation Month and “Free
Time: A Challenge to Free Men" the
theme of his department’s Fun Time
Directory—designed to be posted on
every home bulletin board.

0 Greensboro, North Carolina, under
the guidance of Oka T. Hester, launched
the observance of “Recreation Week"
with a proclamation by Mayor David
Schenck and a week of special events.
Clubs and organizations, especially
youth-serving agencies, were invited to
join in the observance. Newspapers.
radio, and TV carried stories or special
shows throughout the week, posters
were distributed all over town and the
civic hulletin hoards were reserved for
special displays.

0 Decatur, Illinois, used auto stickers.
special staff and board meetings, and
daily programs and news coverage . . .
In New York City, Park Commissioner
Newbold Morris announced a month-
long city-wide series of events keyed to
the four weeks. . . . Richard \Vilsman of
Eau Claire, Wisconsin, used Recreation
Month to kick off all summer events. . . .
St. Vincent's Hospital in St. Louis used
the month to highlight and explain the.
purpose of its total recreation program.
0 Don’t overlook the industries in your
connnunity as you plan for Recreation
Month. Business leaders have a big
stake in effective recreation for every-
body, not just employe recreation. Be
sure they’re represented on your plan-
ning committee. Interchange, the bulle-
tin of the New York Association of In-
dustrial Communicators, reminded all

Company editors to suggest Recreation
Month activities to plant cmployes and
urge employes to support their home
community's Recreation Month pro-
grams. ,_

Labor leaders, too, urge observance
of Recreation Month. The AFli-CIO
Community Service Activities depart-
ment put out a special reminder this
year on the importance of supporting
sueh community efforts toward im-
proved recreation-—-hoth public and pri-
vate.

Let National Recreation Month work
for you! This will be most successful if
you start to plan NOW.

RECREATION

AS WE GO TO PRESS

 

) A LIST OF RESEARCH REPORTS relating
to recreation is now being compiled by
the National Recreation Association. If
you, or your organization, have con-
.ducted any studies that were completed
in 1963, please forward any such studies

to the NRA Library, 8 West 8th Street,
New York 10011, as soon as possible
for listing in the Research Completed in

1963 to be published early next year.
Thank you very much!

> CONCESSIONAIRES in public parks will
take part in the 1963 Economic Cen-
suses, covering manufacturers, mineral
industries, business and transportation,
according to the US. Bureau of Census.
The censuses are taken every five years,
and reply is mandatory. The censuses
will be conducted entirely by mail, with
forms going to large multi-unit firms in
mid-November; the bulk of the forms
being mailed about mid-January. Dead-
line for filling out and returning the
forms is February 29, 1964. Census
Bureau officials indicate that they pre-
fer forms to be returned promptly, even
if it is necessary to use some estimates
rather than delay the forms past the
deadline, to permit auditing. This pol-
icy is designed to reduce the burden on
all firms and to speed up publication of
reports.

Those that operate amusement con-
cessions at public parks will receive
Form CIR-793, Amusement and Recrea-
tion Services. This form seeks a specific
title of the business operated from
among some thirty titles under the gen-
eral headings of “Recrcational Amuse-
ments,” “Coin-operated Machine Busi-
nesses,” and “Spectator Amusements.”
Under the first of these are listed amuse-
ment parks, kiddie parks, theme parks;
bathing beach; boat and canoe rental;
carnivals; circuses; golf pitch-and-putt
course; golf professional; membership
golf or country club; et cetera. Under
“Spectator Amusements” are listed
horse or dog track; baseball, basketball,
football, or hockey clubs; promoters of
sports events; managers of such sports
events.

D CHRISTMAS CUSTOMS around the
world provide the theme of a special
cartoon page appearing in the Decem-
ber issues of the Superman-DC Comics
Group of National Periodical Publica-
tions. The magazines are now on sale at
newsstands. The one-page cartoon strip,
titled “Binlcy’s Special Christmas Quiz
—Christmas in Many Lands!” invites
the reader to guess the country in which

various Yuletime customs are observed.

NOVEMBER, 1963

P FUNDS released by the Department of
the Interior, in final Accelerated Pub-
lic Works projects to stimulate employ-
ment, now total $1,988,000. Since the
start of the work-generating program,
the department has launched 512 fed-
eral proects and provided grants-in-aid
to about 440 additional state fish and
wildlife projects. The entire program
will create 105,000 man-months of em-
ployment in a wide range of improve-
ments touching many phases of con-
servation and benefiting most states.
The first allotment to the department,
made in October 1962, totaled $38,000,-
000. The second, approved May 28,
1963, was for $25,000,000, thus making
the total available $63,000,000.

“These funds have been invested
wisely and have resulted in immediate
as well as long-term benefits,” says Sec-
retary of the Interior Stewart L. Udall.
“Their immediate benefit has been the
creation of thousands of new jobs at
the site of work and many other thou-
sands in providing goods and services.
The longer-range benefits now are be-
ing realized. Our rangelands, our na-
tional parks, our fish and wildlife ref-
uges, our roads, our Indian reservations
have been improved. Fire hazards in
timbered areas have been curbed,
streams have been cleared, new trails
have been built. Costly soil erosion has
been lessened. Also, we now have many
new campgrounds, more parking areas,
additional boat-launching facilities,
more swimming and picnicking areas.

“Many of these projects normally
would have been years in developing.
Today they are completed and the pub-
lic is using them.”

D WILD RIVERS STUDY. A government
study team appointed to investigate the
nation’s need to protect recreation val-
ues of a share of its remaining natural
and free-flowing rivers has selected
sixty-four rivers or segments of rivers
for consideration. Edward C. Crafts,
chairman of the wild river study team
appointed jointly by the Secretaries of
the Interior and Agriculture, listed for
initial study eleven rivers in the South-
east, eleven in the Northeast, nine in the
Lake Central States, eleven in the Mid-
Continent area, seven in the Pacific
Southwest, and fifteen in the Pacific
Northwest.

Included for study are one or more
rivers in thirty-live of the states. The
advice and assistance of the governors
of these states is being sought. The
rivers included were selected on the
basis of their quality and variety, as
well as to realize broad geographical
distribution. The study grew out of

recommendations by the Outdoor Rec-
reation Resources Review Commission
and the Senate Select Committee on
National Water Resources. The Senate
committee suggested that “certain
streams be preserved in their free flow-
ing condition because their natural
scenic, scientific, esthetic, and recrea-
tional values outweigh their value for

water development and control purposes
now and in the future.”

D THE NEW Recreation Service of the
Homebound, a project being sponsored
in Chicago by the Chicago Women’s
Committee of the National Recreation
Association, has appointed Marjorie
Bishop as director. Miss Bishop brings
with her years of eXperience as 3 rec-
reation worker in the United States and
overseas and has a master’s degree from
Columbia University. She will work
closely with Mrs. Conway Ohnsted,
chairman of the NRA Chicago Women’s
Committee.

The exciting project will provide vol-
unteer recreation service in the homes
of handicapped homebound adults. The
Chicago Arthritis and Rheumatism
Foundation and the Multiple Sclerosis
Society will furnish the first group of
homebound referrals. The Chicago In-
stitute of Rehabilitation will also be an
early participant.

It is expected that other agencies and
hospitals will become affiliated with the
programs as the project develops. The
Welfare Council of Chicago and the
Chicago Recreation and Park Depart-
ment have been involved in the original
planning.

) AUTOMATION claims another job, as
the first Univac is retired to the mu-
seum, according to reporter Nan Rob-
ertson in The New Y or]: Times of Oc-
tober 3, 1963. On that date, good old
Univac I typed out its final message to
humanity and then obediently turned
itself off, forever. As the world’s first
data-processing computer, it has been
working twenty-four hours a day for the
Bureau of Census since 1951. “But now
it is a giant moron in comparison with
later, more sophisticated brains,” she
states. And so Univac I comes to rest,
the property of The Smithsonian Insti-
tution, in Washington’s new Museum
of History and Technology. The young-
est of its descendants, just installed in
the Census Bureau, records and counts
a hundred times faster than the pioneer
machine and a million times faster than

a human clerk. (See, “W hat Is Cyber-
netics,” Page 425.)

Automation is called the major cause
in the loss of forty thousand jobs a
week, according to another Times re-

397

port by John Pomfret. John L. Snyder
Jr., chairman and president of U. S. In-
dustries, has just reported to Congress
that the contention that automation will
not eliminate many jobs is “the most
seductive of [the] myths” about auto-
mation. The industrialist maintains
that equipment is being developed that
“works miracles.” However, he con-
tinued, “as is too often the case in this
age of the widening gap between scien-
tific progress and man’s ability to cope
with it, we have failed to keep pace.”

Mr. Snyder said another “myth” is
that automation will create jobs for
workers, not only in running the ma-
chines, but also in maintaining and
building them. “The hard truth,” he
said, “is that modern automated equip-
ment requires very little maintenance.
If it did not, it would not pay to operate

it.” (See also “Our New Automated
World,” Page 401.)

) DR. PAUL DUDLEY WHITE, eminent
heart specialist, was one of the top
award winners in the third annual
“AMF Awards Program for Outstand-
ing Reporting in the Field of Physical
Recreation,” as announced jointly by
Richard J. Sargent, vice-president of
the American Machine 8: Foundry Com-
pany, and Joseph Prendergast, execu-
tive director of the National Recreation
Association. The two organizations co-
sponsor the program.

Dr. White won his AMF-NRA award
for an article entitled “The Soft Life Is
Bad Medicine,” published in Family
Weekly Magazine. In recognition of the
honor, Dr. White received a citation
and $1,000 at a luncheon in the State
House in Boston, October 16. Also hon-
ored was Curtis Mitchell who actually
wrote the article in question—“by Paul

Dnuflley White as told to Curtis Mitch-
e . ’

Additional awards of $1,000 and cita-
tions were awarded by AMF-NRA for
authors and media in the newspaper,
television and radio categories for the
calendar year 1962:

0 1n the newspaper category, a citation
award and $1,000 went to reporter
Henry J. Dolecki of the Oil City Der-
rick, Oil City, Pennsylvania, for a series
of eleven articles dealing with physical
recreation opportunities in Oil City and
how they could be improved.

o The staff of Radio Station WSB, At-
lanta, Georgia, won the award in the
radio category for a series of interviews
with various recreation and sports lead-

ers appearing on the WSB program,
“Recreation Day.”

0 For the television category, the top
honor was awardcd posthumously to

Robert Pelgram, KNBC-TV, Los An-
geles, for his “Just For Fun” TV pro-
gram which featured local children’s
and adult recreation programs.

398

I A BILLION-DOLLAR outdoor recreation
program was endorsed by the House
Interior Committee when it approved
the Land and Water Conservation Bill
(H.R. 3846, S. 859) on October 9. The
bill would authorize federal grants of
$480,000,000 in the next eight years.
This would be matched by state funds

for planning, acquiring, and developing
outdoor recreation facilities. The pro-
gram would be financed later by rev-
enues from entrance and user fees col-
lected at improved federal recreation
areas, sales of federal surplus proper-
ties, and an existing four-cent-a-gallon
tax on gasoline and special motorboat
fuels.

Sixty percent of the proposed Federal
Land Conservation fund would go to the
states. Half of the remaining forty per-
cent would be used for land acquisition,
and the rest retained in the Treasury to
offset the write-off of recreation facility
costs at federal water projects.

} A NEW LAW in Massachusetts, just
signed by Governor Endicott Peabody,
creates a new Statc Division of Con-
servation Services, which may obtain

$2,000,000 to $3,000,000 from the fed-

eral government for conservation work.

COMING EVENTS

National Audubon Society Annual
Convention, November 9-13, Everglades
Hotel, Miami, Florida. Write to National
Audubon Society, 1130 Fifth Avenue, New
York 10028.

24th Annual Women’s National
Aquatic Forum, December 23-30, Sea
Garden Hotel and Motor Lodge, Pom-
pano Beach, Florida. For information
write to Mrs. Theresa Anderson, Women’s
National Aquatic Forum, 2109 Forticth
Street, Des Moines 10, Iowa.

Children’s Art Month, March 1964.
Sponsored by The Crayon, Water Color
and Craft Institute Inc., 420 Lexington
Avenue, New York 10017.

American Camping Association 1964
National Convention, March 17-21,
Pittsburgh Hilton Hotel, Pittsburgh, Penn-

sylvania. Write to the ACA at Bradford
Woods, Martinsvilie, Indiana.

6lst Annual National Catholic Educa-
tional Association Convention, March
31-April 3, 1964, Convention Hall, Atlan-
tic City, New Jersey. Write to the asso-

ciation at 1785 Massachusetts Avenue,
N.W., Washington, D. C. 20036.

American Association of Health,
Physical Education and Recreation
National Convention, May 8-12, 1964,
Sheraton Park Hotel, Washington, D. C.
Write to AAHPER, 1201 16th Street, N .W.,
Washington, D. C. 20036.

Third Biennial Public Relations In-
stitute on New Trends and Techniques,
June 7-9, 1964 Hotel Commodore, New

York City. Write to National Public Re-
lations Council, 257 Park Avenue South,
New York 10010.

International Recreation Association
World Congress, October 2-7, 1964, Osa-
ka and Kyoto, Japan. For information
write to International Recreation Asso-
ciation, 345 East 46th Street, New York
10017.

Established within the State Natural Re-
sources Department, the new division
replaces the State Division of Soil Con-
servation, which was removed from the
State Agricultural Department. Says
Governor Peabody, “This legislation
. . . will enable us to construct multi-
purpose reservoirs for recreation as well
as flood-control purposes.” (See also
“Reservoirs for Recreation,” RECREA-
TION, December 1962, and “Recreation

Demands on Public Water Supplies,”
June1962.)

) A THIRTY-FIVE-YEAR improvement
program for Texas state parks has been
submitted to Governor John B. Con-
nally by Elo J. Urbanovsky, head of the
Texas Tech College Department of
Parks. The plan, the result of a $70,000
study authorized by the state legislature
in 1960, declares the most acute need
for state parks exists in the Houston and
Dallas-Fort Worth areas. Tentative
steps Were taken by the state lcgislature
to meet this situation by providing ap-
propriations over the next two years to
“Dam B,” a new state park near Jasper
where the Angeline and Neches Rivers
converge, and to one at Lake Whitney.
A third park, Lake Falcon on the lower
Rio Grande, is also receiving special
funds from tho state legislature.

IN MEMORIAM

) Two LEADERS in the parks and rec-
reation field have just died.

0 Dr. Gerald B. Fitzgerald, lecturer
and director of the recreation leader-
ship training program at the University
of Minnesota School of Physical Edu-
cation, died in Richfield, Minnesota, at
the age of fifty-four. A university facul-
ty member for seventeen years, “Fitz”
held several national oflices in profes-
sional organizations and had written
more than fifty articles, several pamph-
lets, and two books on recreation. The
latter include Leadership in Recreation
(Ronald Press, 1951) and Community
Organization for Recreation (Barnes,
1948).

- Chauncey J. Hamlin, founder and
former president of the International
Council of Museums, died in Carmel,
California, at the age of eighty-two. A
native and for many years a resident of
Buffalo, New York, Mr. Hamlin was,
according to The New York Times, “en-
dowed with an overpowering drive for
civic betterment.” A long-time finan-
cial contributor to the National Recrea-
tion Association, Mr. Hamlin had been
a member of the New York State Coun-
oil of Parks and had served as chair-
man of the Allegany State Park Com-
mission. He was credited with much
of the original work that led to the
creation of Allegany State Park. He
was also a former chairman of the Na-
tional Conference on Outdoor Recrea-
tion.

 

 

RECREATION

EDITORIAL

HAVE You A
RECREATION
PHILosorAt ..-_

‘

The truth and high purpose are reached through reflective thinking

EARtE F. ZIEGLER, Ph.D.

M

WHEN YOU ASSUME the role of lead-
ership in community recreation,
whether as a volunteer, part-time, or
professional leader, you areiimplying
you have a life purpose! Yet, strangely
enough, most recreation leaders become
hazy when they are asked to state their
philosophy of recreation. It is a little
like saying, “I’m for good and against sin!” The difiiculty
comes when we are asked to define what’s “good” and what’s
“bad.”

Where does recreation fit into life’s picture today? What
is it? Why is it needed? What does it do to a boy or girl,
or to a man or woman? How can we prove that it does
what we say it does? What is its future? We have only to
look at present programs with their shifting emphases to
realize that we are, to a degree, vacillating practitioners.

 

This is true not only of recreation, but is also apparent when
we look at physical education, or the entire field of educa-
tion. for that matter.

A person striving to function intelligently in society needs
a philosophy of life. A recreation educator should have a
philosophy of education, too, and both should be in har-
mony, and, of gourse, his philosophy of recreation should
not clash with his other beliefs ahout life and education.
Their development into one philosophy might well become
a lifelong task.

Some may ask immediately whether science will not
achieve this for us; but we should understand the relation
between philosophy and science. Both are most interested
in knowledge; they ask questions; want answers. Scientific
investigators turn in facts; the philosopher must be cog-
nizant of current advances; but actually, philosophy starts
where science leaves off, by attcmpting to synthesize. What
do these facts mean? When you become concerned about
their ultimate meaning you are philosophizing in the best
sense.

A great many people have philosophical beliefs but are
vague about them. Unfortunately, the man in the street

 

DR. ZEIGLER is professor of physical education at the U ni-
versity of Illinois in Champaign-Urbana. His work is in
the graduate program relating to teaching, research, and
thesis advisement in history, philosophy, and theory of ad-
ministration of physical, health, and recreation education.

NOVEMBER, 1963

still thinks of philosophy as something beyond him—a most
difiicult intellectual activity. So, he makes decisions based
on what he thinks is common sense. The development of a
personal philosophy would help him fashion a better world
for the future based 011 the past and the scientific discoveries
of the present. Without philosophy we can never know if
we have the correct goals in life.

Relate this need to the matter of leadership. What type
of leader should we prepare and how do we develop him
specifically? We need to determine what personal quali-
fications are essential. Some of the desirable qualifications
for recreation leaders, recommended by the Jackson’s Mill
Report in 1948 were: faith in the worth of teaching and
leadership, personal concern for the welfare of people, re-
spect for individual personality, understanding children,
youth, and adults, social understanding, above average in-
telligence and common sense, good health—energy and en-
thusiasm, effective usc of language combined with intelli-
gent use of voice, and a sense of humor.

Over and above certain personal qualifications we would
hope to include some competencies necessary for leadership.
Some of these are:

0 Mastery of many of the “knowledges” in the program area
involved.

0 Ability to use a variety of teaching techniques.

0 A reasonably good proficiency in performing the various
skills to be learned or used.

0 Ability to devise ways and means of measuring to deter-
mine to what extent we are achieving our objectives.

0 Ability to work cooperatively with others and to help
them arrive at group decisions.

D ESPITE lists of this kind, however, our method of pre-

paring leaders and administrators should be improved.
We should give these people an opportunity to solve real
problems at various levels in actual situations involving hu-
man interrelationships.

Recreation philosophy is “duelling our critics with blunt-
ed foils” unless we have a clear picture of thc role of recrea-
tion in the scheme of things. Where does it fit into your
philosophy of life, into your philosophy of education?

Sound recreation leadership can help our country with
the difficulties it faces. For example, Organization Man by
William Whyte outlines clearly and holdly man’s fate in a

399

society that demands conformity and acceptance right down
the lit 6. Certainly, we need conformity to a degree, but let
us not destroy individuality to such an extent that everyone
fits i" a mold. Organized recreation programs may in some
has be fostering this concept of “organization man.” We
should watch this trend carefully.

In similar vein, John Keats, in The Crack In The Picture
Window, complains about mushrooming of housing devel-
0pments after the war. “For practically nothing down and
a promise to pay for the rest of your life,” he says, “You
too can own a box in one of the fresh-air slums we’re build-
ing around our cities.” He ridicules the recreation in these
places, where “Look-alike people act alike in look-alike
houses, and they all go burbling off together down their
peculiar roads to inanity. A neighborhood, yes. But a com-
munity? No. Never.” Fine recreation leadership might
help to alleviate this mammoth problem.

In your recreation programs, give your young men and
women the opportunity to develop beautiful, strong bodies
through strenuous physical recreation, to express beauty

through the creative arts, to learn to enjoy many wholesome,
social recreation activities.

UR CITIZENS, both young and old, need wise guidance
from professional, lay, and part-time leaders in recrea-
tion, but, further, they need the Opportunity to evaluate
their own status and to make decisions accordingly. This
is vital to vigorous democracy. We should ask the question
“How do you rate yourself recreationally?” To facilitate
this process, simple self-evaluation tests should be devised.
We should measure the breadth and depth of the individual’s
recreational status. Certainly this is one technique that
should be used to assess our programs. In reaching his own
philosOphy, the leader should seek the truth through reflec-
tive thinking at its highest level.
Many centuries ago, Socrates took a stand when he said

‘3

that “the unexamined life is not worth living.‘ Recreation
leaders must have purpose which has been thought through
very carefully. They should help others seek the truth of

“the good life” for themselves. #

 

FAMILY  !
FUN ~
WITH
CARD
GAMES

JOAN H. WOOD

M.

I never let anyone graduate from. my recreation classes
without being able to play [oar card games. They always
come in handy and you never know when you will be called
upon. to teach them.—l)n. EDITH BALL. Professor of Rec-
reation, New York University.

5 A PARTICIPATION SPORT, card playing is tops. Today
A there are 132,000,000 card players in the United
States, of whom forty million are bridge players.
What other recreation activity can boast as many partici-
pants? You will find them in the ski lodges, at home on a
drizzly evening. or the center of fun at a party. And, what
pinochle player hasn’t reveled in rolling up his sleeves at
lunchtime and out-melding the card players at the plant?
What child doesn’t have a hard time learning to be a good
sport and good loser, as well as to resist too much grinning
when he wins all the cards at War?

The importance of bringing children and adults together
in a common interest or enjoyable activity, on a more or
less “equal” basis, has long been recognized by child psy-
chologists. Card games accomplish this easily, and Johnny
can start with the more simple games by the time he is six.

Bridge ranks as our most popular card game for adults,

400

 
 

followed by canasta, poker, pinochle, and solitaire. ln ad-
dition therc are many other games that young and old can
enjoy together. Six are described in Family Fun with Card
Games, a clever little book published by American Playing
Card Manufacturers, 420 Lexington Avenue. New York
10017, (33.10). The gamcs are fan-tan, 0h Phsaw. Michigan
(or boodle), concentration, red dog, and hearts. All can
be enjoyed equally by beginning and experienced players
for whom thcy can be a pleasant refresher after the better-
known bridge or poker.

For adults, the booklet’s foreword will bring back many
memories: the wonderful days of childhood when the whole
family would gather ’round the dining room table and play
. Dad would pop a (lishpanful of corn, hot
and buttered; aunts, uncles, grandparents, and cousins——

card games . .

not too old or young to enjoy walloping the daylights out
of a sleepy-eycd player—~were there. Why not introduce
your children today to some of that old-fashioned family
fun? Thcsc days a child can learn a new card game at a
recreation center, then take it home to the family!

Remember also that card tricks go over big in family
fun and in almost any group, for that matter. for they call
upon the decply human love of a mystery. These. too. should
bc a part of the equipment of a good recreation leader who
is ready to mect all contingencies—from a sudden shower
to a rainy week in camp. Sometimes the simplcst tricks arc
the most effective and can be picked up easily. Any local
librarian will have books on the subjcct. Blackstone’s Morl-
ern Card Tricks (Garden City Books, 1958). by thc world-
famous magician, for instance, not only gives a selection
of tricks but eXplains their proper presentation. John Mul-
holland’s more recent Book of Magic (see Page 434) gives
other simple tricks that can be learned in a few minutes and
still be mystifying. Says Mr. Mulholland, “Magic is superb
entertainment for it combines the challenge of a puzzle, the
thrill of a detective story, the amusement of a comedy, and
the charming fantasy of a fairy tale.” #

RECREATION

OUR NEW
AUTOMATED

WORLD

 

Can man survive in a punchcard civilization?

DAVID GRAY

SAMUEL JOHNSON once said, “If we
were idle there would be no grow-
ing weary; we should all entertain one
another.” Our society may be the first
to test that hypothesis on a mass scale.
The changes taking place which may
make this possible—and necessary—are
usually summed up under the heading
of “automation.” The term has been used and misused until
it has great currency in the United States but no general un-
derstanding of what it means. A definition appears useful.

Some years ago John Diebold, a graduate student in the
Harvard Business School, was writing a report on self-
regulating machines. Consulting the dictionary he found the
word appropriate to his meaning to be “automatization”.
He dismissed it as clumsy, coined a new one, and the word

 

“automation” was created. Automation is frequently con-
fused with mechanization but the two are not the same.
When machines do man’s work that is mechanization but
when they do inan’s work and control their own Operation
that is automation. In essence, automation means completely
automatic control of a process. It means machines that can
adjust to changing conditions of production, correct their
own mistakes. inspect the product they create, and even
replace their own worn parts.

Automation isn’t something in the future; it’s here now.
For example, in the Ford Motor Company’s Cleveland plant
rough engine blocks enter an assembly line and go through
530 automatic operations to emerge 14.6 minutes later as
finished engines.’ Bell Telephone Laboratories have devel-
oped a system which records billing data for all calls, assigns
them to the correct subscriber, times calls, computes the cost,
and prints the information. In Labrador City, Newfound-
land, a diesel train, picking up coded signals from the tracks,
can haul twenty million tons of iron ore over 5.2 miles of
track, automatically speeding up for grades, slowing for

 

DR. GRAY is associate professor of the Division of Health,
Physical Education and Recreation and coordinator of the

recreation curriculum at Long Beach State College, Cali-
fornia.

NOVEMBER, 1963

curves, stopping for loading or dumping, and inching the
cars into both ends of the track without a crew.

These are random examples of automation already at
work. They could be replicated thousands of times in other
applications of the principles of automation. Such princi-
ples are not limited to industrial and commercial technology.
Important applications have been made in medicine and are
on the way in education. No one knows where the bound-
aries of application may be——if there are any boundaries.

In recent years, the tempo of installation of automated
systems has been increasing exponentially. When one com-
pany in an industry automates, competitors are forced to
follow. The radical cut in costs and the radical increase in
productivity creates a new competitive situation. Under
automation fewer workers produce more goods and the
product is uniformly better.

AT THE HEART of most sephisticated automated systems
lies a computer. These machines are capable of feats
so prodigious they have been called “mechanical brains.”
The term, although not strictly accurate, does not always
err on the side of magnanimity. Some computers, taught
to play checkers, are known to be better players than the
men who programed them. Some high-speed electronic com-
puters can calculate 250,000 additions per second and print
out the results at the rate of five hundred lines per minute.
Current estimates foresee that about ten thousand computers
will be installed in the United States during 1963; a further
estimate indicates that each computer will displace about
forty-four workers. It is this aspect of automation that
causes many observers concern.

Automation is taking over jobs of American workers at
an ever-increasing pace. If this process continues, its ulti-
mate effect will be to severely limit the work available to
most people. Stuart Chase asked many years ago, “Are we
capable of deve10ping a society that does not depend on
work to give it meaning?” It’s a diflicult question but one
we may have to answer.

The precise effects of advancing automation are not clear
but some aspects of imminent change are becoming appar-

401

cnl. ll lhe plot/1. l. of automation are right. the traditions
of .\me.ica must 1m- reconsidered—the traditional economic
terms. ihc tmdithmd social terms, even the traditional hu-
u t.‘ . -r'n.- are srhjxi't to change. Obviously due for alter-
alu‘ln an our lllt‘:l:~ on the causes and cure of employment
and unemployment. the social duty to work, the social right
I“ \n rk. the right to the fruits of one’s labor, the character
of human incentive, the use of leisure, the role of recreation
111 American life.

In the beginning of major sociological changes like auto-
mation more questions than answers frequently arise. An-
tomation undoubtedly will cause a social revolution as well
as an economic one. What form will social changes take
and how rapidly will they occur? Norbert Wiener, an emi-
nent scientist in this field, has said, “Automation is bound
to devalue the human brain.” just as the industrial revolu-
tion devalued the human arm. What is the psychological
damage to people forced to the conclusion they are intellec-
tually inferior to a computer? It is clear that work may not
hold the place in the lives of many young people leaving high
school today, that it holds in the lives of people who gradu-
ated twenty-live years ago. What will replace it? Will man
have a sense of place in society? Perhaps he needs to be
creative, perhaps not; but he certainly needs to feel needed
and wanted. He must be related to others in a meaningful
way; he needs to achieve something. Where and how will
he receive assurance of his worth? How is our work force
to be shrunk, how selected, how deployed? What are the
incentives to contribute to a society in which material gain
is irrelevant? Will men ever work as vigorously for the
common good as they do for private gain? What will hap-

 

402

pen when automation produces a situation in which, for the
lirst time in history, people will be spending more of their
lives in leisure than in work? Many other questions could
be raised but these are representative.

Not everything to do with automation is questionable.
There are some positive aspects already discernible. Man
will have the opportunity to live creatively. The engine of
necessity will no longer be necessary to make life go. What
he does will depend on what he thinks of himself, of his life.
and its purpose. Robert Theobald in the Challenge of A ban-
(lance says “. . . in the past society has claimed that its mem-
bers were entitled to a living only if they carricd out a task
society defined as valuable and for which it was willing to
pay. The creation of a society of abundance will make it
possible to relax this requirement. We will be able to allow
people to follow an interest they found vital but that society
would not support through the price mechanism.

T HE IMPLICATIONS of automation for recreation are enor-
mous. To the puritanical view, life is a serious business
with emphasis on both serious and business. This view can-
not survive in an automated world. In its place a new leisure
theory must become the center of personality development
and the center of pcrsonal planning. High moral and civic
responsibility will be attached to those who provide and in-
directly control the leisure activities of our people.
Recreation, as we now know it, howevcr well it servcs as
a supplemcnt to work, is clearly inadequate to serve as the
central theme of living. This is the challengc of automation
to the recreation movement. #

TEN LITTLE HUNTERS

10 little hunters. feeling fit and fine . . .
One forgot his safety catch, and then there were .9.

.9 little hunters, flirting with their fate . . .
One started clowning, and then there were 8.

8 little hunters, in a shooters’ heaven . . .
One was “triggered” by a fence, and then there were 7.

7 little hunters, wise to feathered tricks . . .
One used a faulty gun, and then there were 6.

6 little hunters, glad to be alive . . .
One looked down a gun barrel, and then there were 5.

5 little hunters, skilled in woodland lore . . .
One took to drinking, and then there were 4.

.5 little hunters, feeling mighty free . . .
One had an “empty” gun, and then there were 3.

3 little hunters, trampin g through the dew . . .
One shot a shadow, and then there were 2.

2 little hunters, shooting on the run . . .
One tripped upon a rock, and then there was 1.

But one little hunter is still alive to tell
That following sound safety rules guards a hunter well!

Izaac Walton League

RECREATION

PIONEERING
LEGISLATION

PROVIDES RECREATION

FOR HANDICAPPED

712.13 state program of financial reimbursement to the community is a milestone in the progress of recreation

' FRANK M. ROBINSON

FIVE YEARS AGO

o n l y t w 0
known recreation
programs for men-
tally retarded chil-
dren existed in the
state of Massa-

At that

time, excellent trail-blazing efforts were

 

ch usetts.

being made in Boston and Fitchburg.
Other cities and towns had either failed
to recognize the dire needs of this spe-
cial group for recreation or were un-
able to provide such services.

The seriousness of the problem had
not gone unnoticed at the state level.
In 1952, a law was passed establishing
a special commission to investigate and
study the training facilities available
for retarded children. This positive ac-
tion was taken at a time when the rest
of the world was also concerned with
the problem. This was evidenced by the
report of the Joint Expert Committee on

the Mentally Subnormal Child of the
World Health Organization (WHO).

The progress of the special commis-
sion took the form of endless meetings,
conferences, and study which resulted
in laying the foundation stones of in-
formation from which sound action
could be taken. The history of the prob-
lem, the present status of the mentally
retarded child in the institution, the
school, and the community, was care-
fully surveyed and evaluated. Such
concentrated effort brought into proper
focus the distinct and acute needs of the

handicapped. Recommendations were

 

MR. ROBINSON is superintendent of
recreation in Natick, Massachusetts.

NOVEMBER, 1963

proposed for the development of recrea-
tion services for both mentally and
physically handicapped children on a
broad scale throughout the state.

The law which established financial
reimbursement to cities and towns for
the education of mentally and physical-
ly handicapped children had increased
special classes and services to such an
extent that, in 1958, similar legislation
was passed to promote and foster rec-
reation. As with education, this pro-
gram of supervision and reimbursement
for recreation does not envisage a wel-
fare state—quite the opposite—because
it places responsibility for these chil-
dren directly upon the local community,
where it rightfully belongs. This team
approach calls for the cooperation of
state and local organizations to best
serve the needs of the handicapped.

During 1959, the first year that the
new legislation was in effect, the two
original programs jumped to nineteen,
serving 431 handicapped children. Each
succeeding year the recreation services
increased considerably. In 1962, a
peak number of forty-eight communi-

ties participated and 1,093 handicapped
children henefited.

T HE MAJORITY of programs are con-

ducted for mentally retarded chil-
dren and the blind. The programs es-
tablished for the physically handi-
capped serve children with nearly every
type of disability. Efforts have been
expanded to include the integration of
selected children into so-called “nor-
mal” programs in their hometown. 0p-
portunities for integrating those chil-
dren who are ready is simplified under

municipal programs, as the resources
can all be coordinated locally.

Sponsors are, with few exceptions, the
recreation or park department within
the framework of the municipal govern-
ment. During 1962, fifty percent reim-
bursement to towns and cities totaled
$39,761.81. This expenditure included
salaries for leaders or counselors con-
ducting the programs, consumable ma-
terial and supplies, and transportation.
Day camping, swimming, and various
adapted indoor recreation activities are
the types of programs being conducted.

Communities throughout the state
are recognizing the strong impact of
this legislation. To initiate, foster, and
guide a broad program of this special-
ized nature could not be accomplished
without such an act of law and the
financial support it provides. Ad-
ministration, supervision, and financ-
ing of this program is under the control
of Dr. Philip G. Cashman, director of
special education. State Department of
Education. Dr. Cashman is also a mem- .
ber of the special commission which
initiated this project.

L EGISLATION passed under the Gen-
eral Laws ( Chapter 69. Section
29D of the Resolves 0f1958) states that,
“The department is hereby authorized
to cooperate with cities and towns
which establish recreation programs
for physically handicapped and men-
tally retarded persons. Such programs
shall be under the direction and ap-
proval of the division of special educa—
tion, and the department shall reim-

Continued on Page 410

403

 

STATE RECREATION SERVICES

 

RALPH J. ANDREWS

STATE RECREATION services are a rap-
idly developing aspect of state gov-
ernment and fall into the following four
categories.
0 A recreation consultant in an educa-
tion, development, agriculture, welfare,
health, park, or other state agency, who
devotes part or all his time to some as-
pect or aspects of recreation.

 

0 An inter-agency committee of representatives who, basi-
cally, represent their own agencies, each having phases of
recreation interests coordinated with those existing in other
state agencies.

0 The traditional statewide services, such as the operation
of state park systems, recreation therapy and rehahilitation
programs in state mental hospitals and correctional institu-
tions, of consultation services to schools, et cetera.

0 The government recreation agency which gives its full
time to the advancement of recreation and whose basic pur-
pose, defined by statute, is to render direct public, private,
and connnercial community recreation services, and to assist
and coordinate the recreation efforts of other state agencies.
The responsibilities of this agency are to serve the best rec-
reation purposes, and needs, of all the people in its state,
because these purposes and neer arc rccreation in nature.

Thus, it is obvious that the state recreation agency places
primary emphasis upon recreation-for-people rather than on
recreation-resourec-conservation, recreation-for-education,
recreation-in-agriculture, et cetera. It establishes a state
recreation service as a worthy field of government responsi-
bility rather than only a technique, a means to some other-
than-recreation end, or as a secondary or tertiary purpose
of a department or agency which was created for nonrecrea-
tion purposes.

Recreation services by nonreereation agencies are impor-
tant and merit uninterrupted support. However, an agency,
nonrecreation in purpose, maybe unable for legal and other
reasons to allocate department money or personnel to rec-
reation services despite their value.

COORDINATION and cooperation of all existing state rec-

reation services is, of course, important and should be
striven for in the interest of economy and of service effective-

 

MR. ANDREWS is director of the North Carolina Recreation
Commission.

404

ness. However, state recreation services in other than state
recreation agencies are peripheral (or fringe) in nature to
those areas of responsibility which are basic to that depart-
ment’s reason for existence. Such state agency recreation
services are techniques, or administrative vehicles, used to
further the department’s proper, legally assigned, basic pur-
poses but purposes not necessarily, nor primarily, recreation.
in. nature. Thus, it becomes convenient and proper, in such
an agency, to pervert recreation services, to allocate only
what can be spared from department funds after the basic
program area is provided for, to discontinue the secondary
activities or to otherwise condition them for reasons not
recreation based.

An equally important factor to consider is that, even
though an agriculture or education department has impor-
tant recreation functions, it does not have an overall respon-
sibility to act to fill gaps in recreation services or to seek out
areas of citizen need in recreation not being served. The
principal job of an agriculture department is agricultural
in nature; that of an education department is educational.
Recreation is secondary, at best, in each case, except where
recreation helps as a technique to serve the department's
basic reason for existence.

Is second or third place good enough for recreation? Are
we, as recreators and lay users of recreation services, willing
to accept a limited and secondary or tertiary role for rec-
reation, this great, new, important aspect of modern living?
Would we be willing to see education parcelled out to agri-
culture, welfare, conservation, and deve|0p1nent and treated
as a stepchild, however welcome, in the family of state agen-
cics? This would he ridiculous, even though each of these
departments has certain important educational services. Yet
such very often has been proposed as the “ultimate” in state
recreation services when the inter-agency committee or
council is suggested as the complete state recreation service.
This is despite the fact that efficiency is lessened, initiative
is adversely affected, and costs are greater, per unit of ser-
vice rendered, when an attempt is made to combine separate
services in one department.

It is obvious that state recreation inter-agency coordina-
tion and cooperation in recreation is important and that not
to coordinate and not to cooperate would be foolish and
wasteful. Thus, such interagency recreation efforts consti-
tute a sound and basic first step toward proper and adequate
state-level recreation services. It is basic to coordinate but
such is unfortunate, and even tragic, if we coordinate so

RECREATION 

\

hard that we lose our goals of recreation purpose, and of
progress in recreation.

These goals, it becomes obvious, will best be achieved
through the establishment of a state recreation agency,
.whether a bureau, commission, department, or some other
form, whose basic function and reason for existence is to
render recreation services, just as was done when depart-
ments were created in agriculture, health, education, et
cetera.

A PHASE of a state recreation agency’s responsibility is to
help in the coordination and c00peration of recreation
efforts in all other state services. lt is, also, to render a sim-
ilar service in the fields of industrial recreation, religious
recreation, private-agency and commercial recreation, in in-
stitutional and municipal recreation, in rural recreation,
with vacation travel, and wherever else recreation activities
develop. These areas are, often, aspects of societal need for
recreation help and guidance which require more than “co-
ordination” of existing or planned state agency recreation
services. Coordination is not a purpose. It is only one of the
ways to achieve similar or related ends.

The independent state recreation agency acquires the
broad perspective of the whole, rapidly develOping field of
recreation for all pe0ple, in all aspects of our society, and
in all areas of recreation needs and interests. It is concerned
with the historical fact that “how a nation uses its leisure
conditions its future.” It is aware that recreation, as rec-
reation, is important to the souls of men as well as to their
economic future. lt works with recreation and for recrea-
tion purposes, as well as with recreation for agriculture, for
education, for welfare, et cetera. In 1952 the State Services
(now State and Recreation Services) Section of the Ameri-
can Recreation Society established goals for state recreation
agencies, endorsing the concepts outlined above.

It has been argued that an intcr-agency recreation service
is less expensive than an independent state recreation ser-
vice. The same argument is equally applicable in opposition
to any state service. We must say it another way, “A little of
service is less expensive, budget-figure wise, than is a greater
amount of service.” We could say, also, that budget dollars
can be saved if we do away with the highway patrol but we
know the economic and human losses, on the societal ledger,
would be enormous as compared to the budget dollar saved.
It is an accepted fact, now, that even budget dollars are lost

(not saved) if different services with difierent philosophies

NOVEMBER, 1963

and operational procedures are combined in one department.

RECREATION has served a multitude of masters and should,
properly, continue to be an able servant to many
worthy, but nonrecreation, agencies in the accomplishment
of their own, several, basic purposes. Within this variety
of application lies witness to its commonalty of interest and
of its values, both as a factor of economic concern and as to
its effect upon the souls of men. These uses of recreation are
recognized to be of such value that they should be continued,
refined, and expanded. The purposes served in these ways,
by recreation, are often worthy ones; but here recreation
is secondary to thc basic, other purposes of_ the agency. It
is a technique used, primarily, for nonrecreation purposes
and can be discarded, no matter how worthy, when they
have been served.

Those who have studied recreation, however, feel that
its concomitant values, or its value as a vehicle, should not
be fashioned into bonds for its own future. Such a condition
prevents its recognition as a field of fully accepted, and sup-
ported, professional endeavor. On the other hand, it is real-
ized that recreation’s full develOpment, in its own right, will
bring about refinements in recreation which can be chan-
neled back into application in the many recreation-associ-
ated and recreation-as-a-technique areas of use.

This fact, that professional growth in a field contributed
many values to related and associated disciplines, is not a
new one just now being discovered by the recreation field.
It is the precept accepted by other fields of economic and
and societal worth as realistic, by every state government-
in our country. Examples are to be observed in the depart-
ments and agencies of state government which have been
set up as the best way in which to bring areas of human ser-
vice potential into prOper focus and to apply them to the
satisfaction of citizen needs of the state. Thus, in supporting
recreation services through a separate state agency, recrea-
tion will profit by the multiplied organization experience
of other, older, well-organized disciplines in state govern-
ment and will be allowed to continue to progress towards
the application of these other successful statc service pat-
terns to its own state-level recreation agency. #

o For other examples of state recreation action, see Page
403 and also “New York Land Acquisition Program" and
"Awakening in Massachusetts," Recreation, June 1963.
——-Ed.

405

 

PROGRAM

CAN COMMUNITY RECREATION
MEET THE NEEDS OF YOUTH?

Misused leisure can warp the individual and injure society

JAMES A. WYLIE

9

ECREATION LEADERS are the first
R to state that recreation is not
planned for the purpose of re-
ducing delinquency. However, if recre-
ation does meet its chief objective; that
is, the wise use of leisure, then there is
significant opportunity for well-planned
recreation programs to appeal to poten-
tial delinquents. An individual who is
unahle, through his own initiative, atti-
tude, or family problems, to enjoy lei-
sure or to put it to good use, and to
benefit from its fruits, is almost invari-
ably an unhappy individual. Time
hangs heavily, disillusionment comes
easily, life is unpredictable and studded
with high hopes and many perils.
Leisure misused and perverted be-
comes the weapon of the criminal. Boys
and girls “hen apprehended for the
commission of an offense will often say,
“I didn’t have anything else to do” or
“I had to do something.” They use lei-
sure as protective covering for their
misdeeds. If only their talents and en-
ergies were redirected into channels of
worthwhile productive efforts!
The delinquent is faced with a youth-
adult chasm growing larger and sharper
all the time, by every type of situation

 

DR. WYLIE is professor of education at
Boston University.

406

where a youth comes into contact with
an adult. More often than not, the adult
has the last word, the youth resents it,
and the relationship between the two is
strained. Whenever possihle. thc youth
will select the path, or activity, away
from the desires or interests of the adult
in order to make a decision hc can call
his own. This often carries over into
almost all activities including his lei-
sure-time pursuits.

Leisure, in itself, is not always con-
ducive to norm-acceptable behavior or
activity. Time and time again. we may
see leisure used as a springboard for
crime, tragedy, and despair. The extra
hours of free time, aftcr coming home
from school or work, on “days ofi,” and
during vacations have often been spent
conniving and perpetrating crime. Lei-
sure misused in this fashion becomes
the highroad for warping the individual
and injuring society.

Sheldon and Eleanor Clucck state
that delinquents have niarkcdly differ-
ent interests for leisure than do non-
delinquents, as indicated in the chart
below. This specific preference of de-
linquents for adventuresome, exciting
forms of activity is most significant
since it is the one area in recreation pro-

grams often completely ignored! The

usual substitution for adventure is a
heavy emphasis upon competitive games
and sports. These require obedience to
specific rules and regulations, and it is
this very demand for obediencc to rules
that divides the delinquent from adults
and their preconceived regulations. it
it, therefore, not in the least surprising
that the delinquent wants little or no
part of organized athletics and it is very
likely that he will quickly adopt a con-
temptuous attitude toward them thcreb y
increasing the problem greatly. The
Cluecks state that delinquents are:
0 To a grcater degree more socially as-
sertive, defiant, and ambivalent to au-
thority than nondelinquents.

o More resentful of others, far more
hostile, suspicious. and destructive.

0 More impulsive, vicarious and de-
cidedly more cxtroversive in behavior.
0 Less cooperative and dependent upon
others.

0 Less conventional in ideas, feelings,
and behavior.

These should have significant hearing
on the recreation programs that are
planned for this entire group. Activi-
ties should be handpicked to eliminate
an opportunity to further develop these
characteristics.

From the standpoint of temperament,

RECREATIONa

delinquents are less conscientious in

achieving goals regardless of who sets
them. They are seldom critical of them-
selves and are much more self-centered
than nondelinquents. The delinquents
react to stress situations and the result-
ing tension by extroversive expression.
This constellation of norm-violation
quickly brings attention to them as a

group.

PUBLIC RECREATION programs fail the
delinquent and potential delin-

quent because:

0 They are essentially competitive and

are, more often than not, of a team na-

ture: baseball. basketball, volleyball,

softball, football, badminton, and tlle

like.

0 The majority involve money for par-

ticipation or necessary equipment.

0 0pportunities.to actually participate

are far less frequent than one would

commonly believe.

0 They lean more to spectator and pas-

sive activities than to active ones.

0 The activities usually require a Spe-

cialized skill that demands more or less

constant training and perfection of de-

tail which is not common to many chil-

dren in this classification.

0 There is little or no opportunity for

NOVEMBER, 1963

 

youth to plan and direct their UV”! op-
portunities in a manner they would like.
0 Adults too often monopolize the ac-
tivities in an effort to gain personal sat-
isfaction from the leadership as well as
the vicarious participation.

0 The major portion of the program is
boy slanted, leaving little participation
for girls.

0 The program fails to provide a wide
range of choice in activities.

0 Family recreation is usually ignored
or very inadequately conducted.

0 Programs fail to provide activities
progressive in nature so there is a con-
tinuing challenge to the participants.

0 Programs fail to provide recreation
opportunities during the entire year
with special attention to vacations,
weekends, and holidays when leisure is
most abundant.

0 Programs have little or no continuity.
o The leaders, though sincere and well-
intentioned, are often inadequater
trained and do not understand youth.
0 Inadequate teaching or coaching are.
given the youth when new activities are

introduced.

B ECAUSE public and semi-private pro-
grams fail to meet the needs of
youth, many problems develop to en-

To attract norm-idoluting 9 oat/I,
recreation activities need more. bounce,
glamor, drama, danger and prestige.
Programs must be progressive,
challenging, and have continuity.

courage delinquent acts. Once. a young-
ster’s in trouble it is not an easy task
to return him to purposeful living ap-
proved by society. It is not only diffi-
cult, but very costly and often too late.
The results of poor programs can be
evaluated when one views delinquency
and recreation at the adult level. A
study of prison inmates by Henry Pre-

yite indicated the following:

0 There were no activities reported, with fre-
quency, that were used during his childhood
by the inmale’s family.

0 Family members seldom engaged in watch-
ing spectator sporls.

0 Radio and motion pictures were lhe most
commonly engaged in activilies. [These re-
quired little or no preparation before partici-
pation.) '
0 Card games were lhe most frequently used
activin in the area of social activities.
0 No arts-and-crafts activilies were
lioned as being used by the family.

0 No use of collections of items was made
by the families of the inmates studies.

0 The group sludied fell that the reason they
(lid not participate in family recreation activi-
ties was because they did not learn skills early
enough in life.

0 Sports activities were seldom reported as
in use as family recreation activities.

0 The only nature and outing activities used
were those that were. related to the family au-
tomobile: riding and picnics.

0 Participation of the inmate group in sev-
enty-six recreation activities was indicatcd to
be significantly different, as the five percent
level, when compared to a control group of the

population. __)
407

111E311-

THE saoarcomvcs of the average
communit} recreation program in
attracting norm-V rotating youth can be
overcome when activities are reviewed
from the following points of view:

Sports. Before sports are included
in any program, every attempt should
be made to place the youth in contact
with professionals in the sport. Prestige
“rubs off” quickly with this group. This
should be followed, in season. with care-
ful, thorough, and deliberate training
and education in the basic skills. It
must be recognized, however, that only
a small percentage of the group will be
interested and become skilled in any
particular activity. Also, if any indi-
vidual is not interested or successful
that this is a perfectly normal thing.
Once this is recognized by the entire
group, there will be no need for “face-
saving.” This will solve one significant
problem of delinquents usually involved
in non-success situations.

For the non-success group, another
activity must be supplied. If possible.
the first group should be encouraged to
stay with its success activity. This will
allow the less skilled freer rein to sue-
ceed in the second program activity. In
all of this process, Spectator participa-
tion should be eliminated as much as
possible. This should be left for non-
peer groups only, preferably those de-
voted to a level of performance consid-
erably higher than their own so they
have a standard by which to measure
their own performance and a degree of
skill to try to emulate. Some youths will
"wash out” of this program. It is wise
to try to keep them in, if possible, or
immediately find a replacement activity.
Most obvious in this approach is the
need for skilled leadership; this cannot
be secured through volunteers or low-
paid help!

Select for the
group glamor activities, those that re-
ceive considerable publicity and have
thrill potential: skindiving, water ski-
ing, deep-sea fishing, mountain climb-
ing. skiing. exploration hikes. trips to
ships, submarines, and airfields. Spe-
cial attention should be paid to evalua-
tion. the youths” own or what they have
How effective was it? What
could have been done better? Was it
really worthwhile? The adult should
stay out of this if at all possible.

Glamor Activities.

done.

408

I

Special-interest clubs should evolve
from these trips and experience. Of
course, the immediate reaction is that
these small group activities are expen-
sive. Both of these criticisms are true,
but good planning will make these pos-
sible the first time around and a way
can be developed thereafter! The size
problem is difficult. Many of these ac-
tivities have preliminary requirements
such as skills (swimming for example) ,
or ability. strength, age, desire to par-
ticipate. These prerequisites can make
the activity even more valuable because
of the need for meeting them by means
of preliminary training and education.

Leadership. Opportunities for lead-
crship of the younger boys and girls
should come as a special privilege and
be recognized through special invita-
tion to membership in a leaders club.

Arts and Crafts. Specific and pres-
tige-producing arts-and-cra fts programs
should be encouraged. Ceramics. where

The

projects must be significant enough to
attract attention. The same holds true
of the wood-working, leather, model

all make ashtrays, is valueless.

building, painting, and other activities.

Spectaculnrs. Dramatics must in-
clude “earth-shaking” presentation.
They cannot afford to be unknown, in-
significant productions. They 1nust be
of quality, well-produced, and well-pub-
licized, with participants assuming real
responsibility for the production. Par-
ticipants only suffer status difficulty if

they ‘engage in a “low-level” show.

High Notes. Music should be devel-
oped so participants can use it in ren-
dering service to the community. Clee
cluhs, quartets, dance groups, to be ef-
fective, must have audiences that are
appreciative. PTA’s, clubs, and service
organizations should be encouraged to
call upon the young people for their
services. Small donations to their trea-
sury will help them with music and
other needs.

Standard Fare. In addition to the
preceding, there can be a background
of “meat-and-potato” events not so
glamorous. These include weightlifting
programs; dance instruction for new
steps, using only really good instruc-
wrestling; use of library; table

games; special-interest clubs; hotrod

tors;

clubs. with emphasis on automobile me-

chanics; dinner clubs and coffeehouses
for boys and girls; a house organization
that is concerned with special events;
and activities as indicated by the youth
themselves.

On-Tap Activities. These are for the
younger and less mature, the specialties
of the center: the gymnasium program,
movies, gamerooms, storyhours, limited
TV, playground or day-camp activities,
simple crafts, et cetera. It should be
clear, however, that a child should not
be restricted to a program of his age
level if he has special abilities or com-
prehensive interests. This practice will
quickly create problem children.

Parent Participation. Every effort
should be made to interest parents in
the activities of their children so there
is a tie between the recreation program
and the home. Very often this can be
developed by general recreation clubs
for the parents. In areas where there
are several nationalities, this might take
the form of “national nights.” These
could be developed so the Irish, Italians,
Creeks, French, Spanish, or any other
nationality serve a dinner on special
nights traditional to their national ex-
traction. For entertaimnent, they may
have music, dancing, and games com-
mon to their “native” country (see also
Page 411). One does not have to be a
first- or even second-generation Ameri—
can to enjoy the traditions of grandpar-
ents or other forebears! Oftentimes,
they can take the form of special-inter-
est programs for men and women. The
type of activity is not so important as
the fact that the child will see his par-
ents participating in and enjoying a
leisure pursuit. This will give such ac-
tivity new and significant meaning.

Fl‘ne PRODUCTIVE use of leisure broad-

ens the individual, expands his in-
tcrests. matures his attitudes, and
strengthens his skills to meet the prob-
lems of life. He becomes a man, who
through reason and intelligence, merits
a place in our society. He learns.
through leisure, not only to enjoy life
from a personal viewpoint, but to con-
tribute a share toward the happiness of
others, to become an alert, intelligent,
resolute citizen who will help build a
better society and a more understand-

ing America. ii:

RECREATION

CORNFIELD CHEMICALS CLUB

Industrial employees plan and share
activities in an area and

plant otherwise devoid of recreation

JOELLEN CASTLE

HEATED to”fill a recreation void in
C the area, the Cornfield Chemicals
Club, most of whose members

are employees of United States Industry
chemical plant in Tuscola, Illinois, has
a successful recreation program inde-
pendent of direct plant sponsorship.
According to the recreation director,
“The main objective behind the recrea-
tion club is to provide activities for the
workers of the plailt and their families;
there is not really much in the way of
recreation activities around the area.”
Membership in the club is optional.
New employees of the plant may fill out
an application form for membership

when they arrive. “Of approximately

—.

 

MRS. CASTLE attends Eastern Illinois
University in Charleston where she is
majoring in English and journalism.

NOVEMBER, 1963

twelve hundred employees at ['51,
about a thousand belong to the club,”
Recreation Director Don
Lashmet, who is employed on a full-
time basis by the club members. “Most
of those who don’t belong are those who
commute from quite a distance and
would get little benth from the various
activities.”

estimates

Some membership is allowed outside
of the ['5] plant. The fifty or sixty
personnel of Panhandle Eastern Pipe-
line Company, a gas company located
near [’31, are allowed to become regu-
lar members since they have no recrea-
tion program of their own. A small
nearby water plant is also allowed to
contribute ten members, out of their
twelve-man work force, as members.

“Interest in the club really picked up

 

after the swimming pool was construct-
ed,” says Mr. Lashmet. “The pool is
located about three miles northwest of
the plant and was constructed mostly
by the volunteer labor of the club menu
bers. Some guys would work at the
plant for eight hours, then go out there
and work on the pool for eight hours."
They really threw themselves into the
swim.

Members of the employee’s families
are automatically admitted to and in-
cluded in the club’s activities. Guests of
members may also be included in most
activities. Some special functions, such
as the annual club-sponsored Christ-
mas party, are geared directly to the
children.

The Hnancing of the nonproht club
is through small admission charges

409

l-"‘ierl at some club functions, by dues
Lu. n from the members’ paychecks

a...» per year, or fifty cents a month,
h I ending on how the member wishes
 p.13" , and plant subsidization which
helps Wlth the maintenance of the swim-
ming pool. “The plant paid for having
the pool painted; it would have cost too
much for the club to have had it done,”
points out Don Lashmet. The plant also
pays for the water used to operate the
pool, since this is the biggest cost.

THE ADMINISTRATION of the recrea-
tion club includes a board of direc-
tors and a recreation director. The
board members are elected by their
fellow workers to serve a two-year term.
Each member serves as the head of a
recreation committee. There is a com-
mittee set up for each separate activity
offered by the club.

An ex-officio member of the board is
chosen by the plant manager to sit on
the board. The ex-ollicio member acts
as the only link between the manage-
ment of the plant and the board of direc-
tors. He has no vote on the board, but
takes any problems that arise, on the
board or in the club, to the plant man-
ager. If the club asks for help from the
management. the ex-oificio member is
the person to make the request. The
manager then decides whether to ap-
prove the club’s action and support it
or turn it down by refusing financial
support and aid. The board of direc-
tors decides how the club’s annual
budget will be spent. “The club op-
erates on a budget of from $40,000 to
$50,000 a year,” estimates Mr. Lash-
met.
Founded in the spring of 1958. when

two local industries combined their
plant operations, the present club is the
result of the combination of the two
recreation clubs. At first an employee
of the plant served as the recreation
director on a part-time basis. As the
club grew, .the members and the club's
board of directors found that they
needed a full-time director to plan and

schedule the various activities.

Twenty-eight-year-old Don Lashmet
has the job of scheduling and planning
club activities so that they will least in-
terfere with the plant’s shift schedule.
He must try to include everyone in at
least some of the activities. He has to
keep the four different shifts of workers

in mind and.also.the regular hours of

the straight day workers.

MOST POPULAR of any_of the club’s

facilities is the swimming pool. It
opens on Memorial Day each year, and
is open every day from 1 PM to 9 PM.
The pool had a total attendance last
year of about sixteen hundred bathers.
A hundred and fifty children of mem-
bers were given free swimming lessons
last year by the three lifeguards em-
ployed by the club. Under the pool's
operating procedure, a famin season
ticket may be purchased for $5.00; in-
dividual rates are 3.25 for an adult
member, $5.15 for a child member, and
3.50 for any guest. The pool area has
been used by adults for pool parties
after the regular closing time. The L-
shaped pool has a large bathhouse and
an enclosed concession area adjoining
it. A children’s wading pool is near the
main pool.

Other club-sponsored activities in-

clude the annual summer picnic. “The
picnic, free to members, costs the club
about $4,000,” says Mr. Lashmet.
Games are played, prizes are given
away, and carnival rides are available
for the children at the annual function.
Each year the club sponsors a Christ-
mas party for the children of members.
At the party each child is presented with
a silver dollar as a gift.

Stags and “stagettes” (stags for
women) are held at various times
throughout the year. They are usually
held at Moose or Elks’ clubs in nearby
towns wherever the club can get the best
price. Adult games. including bingo,
bowling, and basketball, are also on the
club’s program. “We try to offer ac-
tivities in which everyone can partici-
pate,” explains Mr. Lashmet. “The
variety of interests represented in the
club makes this point important to the
success of the organization.” The
gymnasium and bowling alley in area

towns are rented for the activities.

EIGHT DANCES a year are sponsored

by the recreation club. Music is
provided by area bands, and club mem-
bers are usually charged $2.00 per
couplc. if it were not for these dances,
people would have to go to Champaign,
about twenty-fivc miles from the plant,
if they wanted to dance.

“As for the future of the club," says
Mr. Lashmet, “there is additional land
at the pool site. We would like to build
some tennis courts, and perhaps an all-
purpose activity building with a gym-
nasium.‘ He concludes that a recrea-

tion club is just what the members

make it. #

 

Pioneering legislation
Continued from Page 403

 

burse said cities and towns by paying
to them one half the cost thereof, in-
cluding transportation of such persons
to and from the site of such program on
each day it is held. Said reimburse-
ments shall be paid out of the proceeds
of the tax on income.”

This law does not include the private
and voluntary organizations serving
the handicapped. \Vhile one cannot
help but applaud the tremendous gains

4-10

of the private rehabilitation agencies
throughout the statc, it is evident that
the needs of the handicapped are so
great that they require hoth private and
municipal services.

Private organizations might consider
cooperating with municipal depart-
ments, such as is the case in Natick. a
town of twenty-nine thousand. The Bay

State Society for Crippled Children as-
sists with leadership training, the Am-
putee Veterans Association of America
contributes free use of facilities. many

private and voluntary groups refer

campers and others help in various
ways. A“ key to Natick’s successful
year-round
been the involvement of many interest-

recreation program has

ed persons and organizations. This has
created a strong public awareness of the
valuc of these services and a far-rcach-
ing spirit of cooperation which benefits
cveryonc concerned.

Are the recreation needs of thc handi-
cappcd child in your community and
state being adequately met? Perhaps
the pioneering legislation enacted in the
Bay State will help you meet this chal-

lenge. 

RECREATION

it” THE MA GIC OF CHRISTMAS are

An unusual program using the magic of the season of
“peace on earth, good will to men”

to cement new friendships and build new understanding

.‘

f“

 

.2? -.”‘:t

y — an.

Dayton’s many-splendored Christmas celebration was the fusion of the folklore of many lands and many peoples.

GORDON J. GUETZLAFF

DID YOU EVER
WISH that
Christmas was

longer than a day?
With all that hustle
and busHe and
weeks of prepara-

 

tion and anticipa-
tion. it always seems the day itself is
over all too soon; so the staff of Bom-
berger Center in'Dayton, Ohio, decided
to prolong that day by having “Twelve
Days of Christmas,” with a different
foreign Christmas represented for each
of the twelve days.

 

MR. GUETZLAFF, former head of the
recreation bureau, in Dayton, Ohio,
recently became ,execntive director of
program for the Oakland, California,
Recreation Department.

NOVEMBER, 1963

Nationality groups in Dayton agreed
to participate in this festival of Christ-
mases. Each, in turn, chose one of the
days to present their Christmas, featur-
ing folk dancing, traditional carols,
holiday food, costumes, and talks on ap-
propriate customs. The groups usually
gave the audience free tastes of their
expensive pastries and then sold them,
doing a land-office business. Each
night’s program was special unto itself.
The Hungarians added the decorating
of a Christmas tree with homemade
cookies and painted nuts. The Japanese
played on ancient string instruments
and' had a Christian minister narrate.
The Poles set table for Christmas Eve
dinner with straw under the tablecloth
and pulled out the longcst straw for the
predicted best fortune of the coming

year, and the head of the family passed
a communion-shaped wafer around to
each member at the table. The Ger-
mans happened to be fortunate enough
to have one of the finest choral groups
in town. The Hawaiians from the Uni-
versity of Dayton held limbo and hula
contests. Besides the terrific Hibernian
Irish dancers, their narrator recited
beautiful Irish poetry. The Scotch and
English had a bagpipc player. The
Greeks had tiny boys in costume recit-
ing in Greek. Seeing the Lithuanian
tecnagers dance folk dances instead of
rock ’n’ roll was rewarding. The pinata
added the Puerto Rican touch. Spu-
lnoni, cicillini, and connoli only con-
firmed that the Italians are fabulous
cooks.

All of the Christmases were held in

L1]

a large rorm c-spable of holding ap-
proximately ‘50 people with a huge,
beautifully 'trorated tree. The groups
were then P\ .mitted to add to the deco-
ratlons, mak their program as long or
short a s fl 03’ pleased, and perform more
or less in the center of the room with
the audience all around'the room in
circular fashion similar to a theater in
the round. All groups were asked to
have audience-participation activities,
such as teaching folk dances or joining
in English after Silent Night was sung
in their native tongue.

THE CLIMAX came the last evening
with our American Christmas. It
was held in the gym with five hundred
or so in attendance. Synlbolizing that
America is the melting pot of all na-
tionalities, the American Christmas
embraced one member of each group

into its program. Each, in turn, lit a
candle on the equator of the modernis-
tic, wire world until, at last, the world
was lit up ushering in the Light of the
W'orld . . . the Birth of Christ. It cul-
minated with a Nativity scene, with one
member of each group playing a part
in his native costume instead of the
traditional costumes. We had a Jap-
anese Mary, a Polish Joseph, Irish
angels, a live American baby, et cetera.

We even tied in Santa Claus, the
rather commercial side of Christmas,
to this religious scene. This has always
posed a problem. After the Christ Child
was born, and while the Nativity Scene
was still on stage, a narrator read and a
touching story of old man Klaus and
the magic of his flying reindeer was
acted out. It seems his gift to the Christ
Child, accomplished by his tremendous
love and the efforts of his reindeer, was

rewarded by an angel. As a result, one
day out of every year, on Christmas
Eve, reindeer would fly, enabling old
man Klaus to give gifts to children all
around the world After acting out this
story, Santa Claus rose from his bend-
ed knees in front of the Babe and turned
and came down off the stage into the
audience distributing candy to all chil-
dren in his fairyland throne room.

Our neighborhood people learned
valuable lessons from the program.
They learned that the families with Old
World 'ties stay and play together.
When groups performed, whole rela-
tionships came and joined in the festivi-
ties. Besides being obviously enter-
tained by costumes, customs, foods,
dances, songs, and literature, unbe-
known to them in an area where some-
times tolerance is lacking, they learned

a lot about the hrothcrhood of man. :5:

 

 

EVERAL years ago, RECREATION suggested safety rules
for Halloween. Many recreation departments reprint-
ed these rules and distributed them as a public service.

These safety suggestions for Christmas may be used the
same way. Perhaps your department can distribute these
suggestions with the coopcration of the schools, the light,
power or telephone company, a local dairy, the newspapcr,
a bank, or some other local means.

DRIVE CAREFULLY. not only in the streets but in your
own driveway. Children will be home for the holidays. Their
minds will be on Santa, not safety.

DON’T change hulhs on outdoor lighting displays until
you turn off the current. Wet hands, wet snow—and BANG,
you’re the go-hetween in a short circuit.

BE‘VARE of fire hazards. Evergreens dry up and, as they
dry, they get more and more dangerous. Those wreaths.
ropes and swags of holly, trailing cedar, princess pine. and
other greens look pretty, even after they have lost their
freshness; but DON’T put lighted candles near them.
NEVER put a lighted candle in a window—unless it's an

412

electric candle. Even then. turn it off when you leave the
house or go to hed.

NEVER hurn those greens, or branches from the Christmas
tree, in your fireplace. They burn too fast. too hot.
FIREPROOF your indoor Christmas trces. Even then, cut
the base at an angle, and keep it standing in water.
CHECK all Christmas trec lights for worn placcs in the
cord, loose connections, or broken sockets. Don’t put tinsel
near the light sockets. In conducts electricity.

NEVER use electric lights on aluminum trees. They con-
duct electricity.

NEVER leavc the lights of the Christmas tree on whcn no
one is in the room and NEVER leave them on all night.
AL‘VAYS put your tree in the coolcst place in the room—
AW’AY from radiators, fireplaces, and TV sets. Heat dries
it and makes it a fire menace.

PROVIDE a big box for the discarded wrapping paper,
string, ribbon, et cetera wherever and whenever your family
unwraps its gifts. DON’T toss them into the fireplace or
leave them lying around.

DISCONNECT that electric train set and any other elec-
trical toy before leaving the room or going to bed. DON'T
run electric trains under the Christmas tree.

KEEP toys OFF the stairs and away from main traffic lanes
in rooms. A nasty fall is a sure way to lose that Christmas
spirit!

SCREEN your open fireplace at all timcs and DON‘T use
it as an incinerator.

CHECK that firc extinguisher. Is it charged? 111 good
working order? Do you know where it is—and how to use
it?

KEEP the spirit of Christmas in your heart all year but DO

take down Hammahle decorations by New Year’s. #

RECREATION

 

.' ADMINISTRATION 3

NEW AQUATORIUM “ON TARGET”

Outstanding features of this beautiful facility
are an underwater observation room for one of two pools
and other advanced engineering used in construction

ARNOLD J. ROBLES

N UNUSUAL swimming pavilion in
A Commerce, California, not only
was planned to provide facilities
for the community recreation program,
but was aimed at making the new city
known throughout the nation for an
outstanding aquatic program, produc-
ing championship swimming, diving,
and water-polo teams. Proof that the
aim came true was established last fall
when the Commerce water-polo team
nabbed the national championship in
competition at Palo Alto, California
and won the honor of representing the
United States in the 1963 Pan American
games in Brazil.

In retrospect. the planning that led
up to the championship and the remark-
ably active aquatic program revolves
around a simple requirement to add a
swimming pool to the recreation facili-
ties of the city. Commerce has a resi-
dential population of ten thousand and
a daytime population of fifty-five thou-
sand, including employees of sixty-eight
of the nation’s top hundred industrial
firms.

Rosewood Park, located in the geo-
graphical center of town, is the primary
recreation facility, with five acres de-
voted to baseball diamonds, children’s

MR. ROBLES is director of recreation
and parks in Commerce, California.

NOVEMBER, 1963

playground, and picnic area. However.
summertime temperatures in Commerce
often reach one hundred degrees and
better, so, when the city was incorpo-
rated three years ago, plans were imme-
diately launched to add a swimming
pool to the park program. Mayor Mau-
rice H. Quigley and the original city
councilmen, together with the recrea-
tion and parks staff, asked the Los An-
geles architectural firm of Hunter and
Benedict, members of the American In-
stitute of Architects, to prepare the re-
quired plans.

It quickly became evident that a
swimming pool alone was not sufiicient
to meet the city’s initial needs—and the
concept of an “aquatorium” was born.
The aquatorium now is the focal point
of community life in Commerce. Not
only is it a center for aquatic activity.
but it provides facilities for community
meetings and dinners, as well. The U.S.
Olympic Committee chose the aquator-
ium for the 1963 Pan American syn-
chronized swimming trials.

THE PROJECT is actually a unified

complex of three buildings placed
at one corner of Rosewood Park. The
central building containing not just one
but two swimming pools is 27 feet high,

14-0 feet wide, and 180 feet long, and

has offices, a meeting room for 250 per-
sons, and a fully equipped kitchen. Ad-
joining the central building is a locker-,
shower-, and dressing-room building, a
physical-conditioning pavilion, and
large patios with food facilities to serve
both the new complex and other areas

of the park.

Opened early in 1962, swimming ad-
missions ran more than a thousand per
day in the summer months and passed
a hundred thousand in the first eight
months of operation. As many as thirty-
seven hundred pe0ple have gathered for
civic events—testifying to the availahil-
ity of the aquatorium as a 365-day-per-
year, sixteen-hour-per-day operation.
Portable bleachers can seat twelVe hun-
dred in the main building with comfort.

The aquatics program centers on the
two pools—one 60-by-75 feet, equipped
with one-metre and three-metre diving
boards and containing 220,000 gallons
of water. At the twelve-foot end, an
underwater observation room provides
an intricate sound system that enahles
instructors to speak directly to swim-
mers and divers while they are under-
water. This system helps greatly in
teaching and has proven to be the most
reliable yet developed for the training
of skin divers, scuba instruction, and
swimming form for racing turns and

413

 

GYM ACTIVITIES. Interior of gymnasium shows full physical conditioning equipment. steam
cabinets. Noontime program provides exercise. swim. and luncheon.

BUSY WATERS. Main pavilion of aquatorium shows training pool in foreground and Olympic
pool in background. Sliding skylights admit bright California sunshine.

 

w

\/

OUTDOOR IS INDOOR. Two glass walls of aquatorium open to admit the outdoors on warm
and bright days. Patio in foreground then becomes ideal sunbathing area.

 

GYM-SIZED GYM. Architects planned aquatorium arour
folded concrete roofed building in foreground for Optir

 

COMMERCE AQUATORIUM. Front elevation of huge re
at left. main pavilion enclosing two swimming pools. and

recovery from dives. The second pool
measures 36-hy-60 feet and contains
seventy thousand gallons of water that
can be quickly released to lower the
water level for specific needs of swim-
ming instruction.

AMONG the special features of the

aquatorium that have contributed
to the success of the city recreation
program are the engineering advances
planned by the architects. The aqua-
torium is perhaps the most comfortable
huilding ever designed for swimming
use. Special systems keep windows from

RECREATION

PLANNERS. Paul Robinson Hunter, FAIA
(eft) and Walter F. Benedict. AIA pre-
pared the unusual plan for the city of
( ommerce aquatorium complex.

 

in facility shows offices and meeting area
asium far right.

 

ntial use factors. producing the octagonal,
Kercise gymnasium.

fogging, metal from corroding, sound
from reverberating. To keep windows
from fogging, the architects designed
a stainless-steel perimeter ventilation
system around the blue acoustic ceiling
to clear the room of damp, chlorine-
laden air. Fresh air from the system
continually moves downward over the
glass walls and is exhausted at floor
level.

To keep metal from corroding, cor-
rosion-resistant materials were adopted
throughout the main building. Con-
crete, aluminum, and stainless steel,
coupled with the active ventilation sys-

NOVEMBER, 1963

ten], have yet to show signs of corrosion.

Noise level is controlled by the auto-
matic ceiling and other special dcsign
features of the room itself. A seventy-
piece band has held a concert in the
room with results that can match a
carefully planncd auditorium.

Simply housing the pools in a swim-
ming room measuring lOO-by-lSO fect
does not exclude the wonderful Califor-
nia concept of outdoor living, either.
Four skylights, each 20-by-4O feet, slide
open to let the sunshine pour in. Huge
counter-balanced glass walls on two
sides slidc upward to open the room to

 

UNDERWATER INSTRUCTION. Paul J. McCormack, aquatics instructor. coaches underwater swimmers from
below-decks observation room. Pool sound system transmits audible instructions below surface.

 

TOT POOL. Rear elevation of aquatorium shows the dressing-room building at left and main pavilion. This
area abuts Rosewood Park with baseball diamonds and other recreation facilities.

the outdoors and adjoining patio areas.

FROM five in the morning until nearly

midnight, the aquatorium’s waters
are virtually in constant use. Compcti-
tive teams take the early morning and
late evening hours, while gcneral swim-
ming instruction occupies normal morn-
ing hours and the afternoons and early
evenings are dcvoted to recreation
swimming. Swimming classes are con-
ducted for babies of just six months to
three years, “peewee beginners" be-
tween the ages of three and five years.
with older children at least four feet tall

415

nth. ...l I. < liners. adtancetl begin-
Iuite. swimmer, junior-
new 1 i. “ting. and diving classes.

\.*11't.. t e pronded with swimming
It-eeut'e as Is. ,. inners, intermediate, sen-
tor lift sax ing, or the classic “Swimmin’
Vt omen “later Ballet." Certified in-
structors teach skin diving and scuba
classes. A special program for “aquatic
youth" activities includes novice com-
petitive'teams ranging in age from six
to seienteen years. bcginning water
polo for ages twelve to eighteen, begin-
ning synchronized swimming for girls,
and the junior synchronized swim team
for girls.

A popular noontime program has
been offered to local employees to use
the physical-conditioning pavilion, fol-
lowed by a swim and a balanced low-
calorie lunch. The beauty and comfort
of the aquatorium has literally turned it
into a private club for such employees.

The physical-conditioning pavilion,
an octagonal structure adjacent to the
locker- and shower-building, is equip-
ped with electric-powered massage
belts. vibrating tables and rollers, re-
ducing cabinets, and body-building

equipment. It is appropriately sized
40-by-40 feet for optimum space utiliza-
tion, reversing the traditional pattern
in which a swimming pool is only an
auxiliary to a little-used but large gym-
nasium.

THE summertime aquatorium staff Of
forty-three, including part-time
employees, is cut to less than twenty
during the winter—a small staff to ban-
dle such a large and diverse program of
activities. Paul McComack supervises
the entire aquatics program and has as-
sem bled an excellent and proficient staff
Of specialists. Diving coach Jack Roth
is chairman Of the AAU Diving Com-
mittee, with broad experience in major
competition. Swimming team coach
Paul Cerards has developed a number
of national record holders, while it was
Jim Schultz who coached the Commerce
water-polo team to the national chant-
pionship at Palo Alto. Liz Keen, who
handles the sychronized-swimming
team, has turned out professional-cali-
bre teams since 1948.

A note about admission prices can

perhaps cap the success story of the

During the
early months Of Operation, admissions

Commerce Aquatorium.

were: adults, forty cents; juniors,
twenty cents; children, ten cents. Re-
search showed that families were spend-
ing up to four dollars per week on ad-
missions alone——-—which city Officials and
the recreation and parks department
felt was unjust for a city facility. An
adjustment in admission prices to ten
cents for all quickly resulted in I1)
more attendance by adults and (2) in-
creased use by juniors, who had per-
haps been turning elsewhere for their
recreation.

The secret of the aquatorium is ac-
tually no secret at all and it could well
become a prototype for cities Of all sizes
to follow. City Ollicials did not plunge
headlong into a building program. but
carefully compiled their needs, pre-
sented them to a capable architectural
firm that consulted with the officials
from the outset and was unhampered
by preconceived ideas of requirements.
With such careful planning, thc result
could hardly miss the target! The aqua-
torium has squarely met the standards

set for it by the city Ollicials. #

 

HERE’S A BRAND—NEW
INDOOR SPORT THAT
EVERYONE CAN ENJOY!

America’s National Pastime

Brought to life indoors—with all
the thrills and excitement of the big
league. As much fun to watch as it

is to play.

  

Here's real, authentic baseball! Players choose up sides

. Visitor and Home teams are established . . . an
umpire is seleeted . . . players determine rotating pitch-

ing and batting order

. some is kept. Spectators,

and players alike, root their teams on to victory. Just

like being in the ball park!

 

Dated and Undated

0 Blue heavy simulated leather stamped in gold

0 Each holds one year’s issues

0 Opens flat for changes

RECREATION MAGAZINE

For complete infOrrnotion, write:

ANDERSON MANUFACTURING COMPANY

NORWAY, MICHIGAN

416

8 West Eighth Street. New York Il

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

RECREATION

NOTES FOR THE ADMINISTRATOR

 

3n Record

Establishment and management of a record system are an
:ssential function of every agency of government. Public
i’ecords Management by Philip C. Brooks, issued by the Pub-
ic Administration Service, affords a practical guide and
should be of value to recreation and park departments. As
pointed out in the publication, “Records are a means by
which public officials in a democracy are accountable to the
people. They are tools of administration, the memory of
an organization, the embodiment of experience, protectors
of legal rights, and sources of many kinds of information.”

Five phases of good records management are listed as
follows: control of creation of records; effective handling
while they are in current use; wise selection for retention
and disposal; retirement by transfer to intermediate stor-
age, transfer to an archives, or disposal; and effective archi-
val administration of those that should be retained. The fol-
lowing specific steps are proposed for any public official
responsible for record keeping:

0 Learn the law and regulations governing records, creation,
handling, use, disposal, and preservation.
0 Get acquainted with the officials of the archives or pub-
lic records office of the government, or, in lieu thereof,
with an historical society or library that will take an interest
in public records.
0 See that receipts for records are given to the predecessor
when a new official takes over, in exchange for a descriptive
list of the files of the office.
0 Appraise the personnel handling records, and see that
they are adequate as regards both competence and number.
0 Learn the general character of the files and the part they
play in procedure.
0 Make or have made at least every two years, or better, on
a continuous inventory basis, a detailed survey of records
on hand.
0 Effect improvements in procedures, if necessary, for econ-
omy, protection, ease of use of records, or effective records
retirement.
0 Provide a detailed manual of operating instructions.
0 Evaluate records on hand and in process of accumulation
and consult with legal and archival authorities on disposal
or transfer.

C0pies of this useful publication are obtainable from the
Public Administration Service, 1313 East Sixtieth Street,
Chicago 37, for $2.00.

Effective Planning
The United Community Funds and Councils of America

has issued a pamphlet entitled Essentials for E fiective Plan-
ning which deals with some of the key questions facing com-
munity health and welfare councils. Among these questions
are leadership, structure, problem-centered approach, bud-
geting and allocations, priorities and determining commu-
nity needs, long-range planning, voluntary-public relation-
ships, area-wide planning, social and physical planning, lo.

NOVEMBER, 1963

cal and national planning, the public image of councils,
council finarices and staff. Most of these questions are of
equal interest and significance to recreation authorities. In
presenting a number of guide lines for effective operation,
the pamphlet suggests the following factors as important to
a strong, vigorous, and protective council:

0 Involve top-flight community leadership.

0 Foster simplicity in council structure.

0 Make community planning “problem-centered.”

o Recognize the concept of citizen-agency partnership.

0 Base courageous decisions upon facts and honest convic-
tion.

0 Make planning efforts more productive and meaningful
to budget and finance committees.

0 Project for the year ahead.

0 Concern the council with both tax-supported and volun-
tary programs.

0 Integrate local planning with area, state, and national
planning.

0 Relate social planning to physical planning.

0 Carry out a continuous program of public interpretation.
0 Provide adequate council budget and staff.

Housing Design
Interesting proposals for the design of large housing

projects with a view to making them better places in which
to live are offered by Elizabeth Wood in Housing Design:
A Social Theory, issued by the Citizens’ Housing and Plan-

ning Council of New York (available for $1.00 from the
Council, 20 West 40th Street, New York 18.)

As Miss Wood points out, early proponents of public hous-
ing expressed the hope that by designing larger scale units
they could bring to city people a richer and more fulfilling
environment than was possible in ordinary city blocks.
Planning of these projects was expected to bring to their
doorsteps safe places for children to play, more kinds of
play. and pleasant sitting areas, all in a park-like setting.

According to Miss Wood, the hope shriveled, and with
the advocacy of scattered buildings and individual houses
it died. She adds, “The social barrenness that one finds in.
public housing exists in much private high-rise urban hous-
ing. The provision of recreation for children older than tots
is skimpy. There is little or none for adults or teenagers.”

Housing Design presents a rationale as to why it is both
good and safe to design buildings and neighhorhoods so they
richly fulfill people’s needs and desires. In accomplishing
this, Miss Wood discusses the social theory of housing de-
sign, the needs of people, and specific methods of achieving
a social fabric in housing developments. She makes specific
methods of achieving a social fabric in housing develop-
ments. She makes specific suggestions for serving the needs
of various age groups through site design and development.
Line drawings illustrating the application of these propo-
sals add to the attractiveness of the booklet and increase its
usefulness to recreation workers.

41?

SWiMMiNG
FiLTEKS

The answer to public health hazards
in your swimming pool

 

 

 

 

 

 

2““— ---- —_..__
:_—_.__=____:_ ‘ If
'  (_ _‘ .. H...-
W
m
M
w &-—")
W ‘M-‘w __——_-——'
M W:
""'"‘"""""' M M
...--¢._..-4..._..A...—0 M
M M

STAN HEDWALL

HE “HEART” of any swimming pool, small or large, is
its filtration system. Pools, like many human beings,

have or may have “heart trouble.” A good pool-
filter operator is the MD of the boiler room. He must be
sure everything is running “normal,” and be alert and well
trained for his job. Like any general practitioner, he must
be able to diagnose the “patient’s trouble” (in this case, the
pool filter) whenever called upon. The circulating “pump”
must be in tipt0p shape as it is most important to the filter
and requires frequent “checkups.” Accurate records must
be kept on a chart, showing all “operations.”

Some may ask, “What is a pool filter and why is it neces-
sary?” A filter is a structure used primarily for removing
solid or colloidal material in the water. The water is passed
through a filtering medium, which may consist of a granu-
lar material, such as sand, anthracite, diatomaceous earth.
ct cetera. The primary purpose of a filter is to remove dirt.
bacteria, slime, and algae. It should be operated twenty-
four hours a day to maintain clean, safe pool water.

Several types of filters are used for a recirculation typc
of pool. Each of the types attempt to perform the same pur-
pose; that is, to remove color, turbidity, and bacteria. The
efficiency of each type of filter is to a great extent dependent
on'the ability of the “operator” to make the equipment do
what it is dcsigned to do.

The pressure sand-and-gravel type of filter must be kept
clean, loosc, and free of mudballs. In pressure filters, back-
washing of the filter medium cannot be observed and, con-
sequently, a great deal of care and thoroughness must be
exercised during thc periodic inspcctions. The condition
of the gravel bed is important. Backwashing a pressure filter
at too high a rate may result in an upset of broken gravel
bed. Inspection of the gravel bed of the pressure filter is
difficult, because sand must be removed from the gravel.
\Vhen condition of sandbed shows that wash-water distribu-
tion is not uniform, or when sand is found in filter effluent,
complcte removal and replacement of filtering medium is
usually advisable. Coagulants, principally alum, are used
with sand and anthrafilt filtcrs of thc pressure or gravity
type. When alum is mixed with pool water, it forms a white
gelatinous floc, that is retained on the surface of the sand
filter, forming a mat that will catch and hold fine particles
of turbidity that ordinarily might pass through the filter. A
similar type of operation is uscd in pressure type. gravity
type, and anthrafilt filters. This type filter is backwashed
normally on a routine schedule, being based on maintaining
the desired turnover.

In the early 1930’s a new filter medium known as “dia-
tomaceous earth” was developed. It was first uscd in the
movie industry to filter water so as to pcrmit clean, sharp
underwater motion pictures. In 1938 the first diatomite fil-
ter was used on a regular swimming pool, but it is since
1945 that diatomite filters and filter aids have been further

MR. HEDWALL is superintendent of parks in Chehalis, W ash-
ington. This material was delivered at a recreation leader-

ship workshop held in Chehah's in March, 1963.

RECREATION

developed and adapted for swimming pool use. It is now
widely accepted that a properly designed and operated dia-
tomite filter installation will give a sparkling and clean pool.
Over sixty percent of all swimming pools huilt today use
diatomite filtration. Because it is so fine, chlorine usage is
drastically reduced and the need of a flocculating chemical
is eliminated, as it produces the same water quality results
as the other types of media.

Just what is this fine white powder called “diatomaceous
earth”? It is composed of fossil-like skeletons of micro-
scopic water plants called diatoms. Under favorahle condi-
tions these plants grow in great profusion, and many deposits
of these plant skeletons were built up in different areas of
the earth. Each skeleton is an extremely porons framework
of nearly pure silica. The world’s largest and purest deposit
is at Lompoc. California. The product is manufactured into
a very porous powder, and made in several grades for vari-
ous types of filters.

ANYTHING NEW in “filter aids?” Yes, a new type material
known as “Perlite” has entered the market. While
“Perlite” filter aids are newer than diatomites, they have
been used for a number of years on commercial applications.
Their use parallels that of diatomite products. The process
of “Perlite” consists of heating crushed ore to 1500 degrees
F., so that the water entrained in the ore causes it to hloat,
in a fashion similar to popcorn. Called “expanded Perlite”
this creates a less dense, more bulky form, which is then
ground to various sizes for specific purposes. Perlite filter
aids are priced about ten percent below equal grades of
competitive materials, the cost advantage is found in the
lighter density of the filter aid itself, which is about twenty
percent lighter than the diatomite grades. Perlite filter aids
are used in the same manner as diatomite powders and may
be used in both pressure and vacuum filtering systems.
There are numerous types of diatomaceous earth filters, hut
hasically there are two types, vacuum and pressure. They
all use the same principal component parts, septum to hold
the diatomite and the shell to house the septa. The vacuum
diatomite filter uses an open-top tank and draws the filtered
water through the septum by a vacuum produced by pump
suction. Backwashing, addition of precoat and body coat
of diatomite is similar to the pressure system.

THE “pressure type” diatomite filters are perhaps the most
universally ,used in the pool industry. The principle
of the diatomaceous earth filter has been used for many
years. A hollow cylinder of wire mesh or porous stone is
used to support the diatomaceous earth filter medium, called
the filter cake or precoat. The pool water is recirculated
through this precoat, chlorinated, and at times adjusted for
PH to provide water of the finest clarity. Diatomite in no
way changes the chemical composition of thc water. In the
case of many pools, the pool filter consists of a cylindrical
steel tank with dished heads, separated into two compart-
ments by a tube of shect steel that is welded to the lower

NOVEMBER. 1963

 

compartment. The filter elements are inserted into the tube
sheet and all held down by the top or hold down plate. Each
filter element has a gasket to completely seal off the two
compartments.

During the filtering operation, water leaves the main
drain and is drawn through the haircatcher into the re-
circulating pump, then enters the bottom of the filter tank,
passes through the diatomaceous earth precoat, up the filter
elements, through the tuhe sheet to the top compartment and
then out through the piping to thc pool inlets. Pressure
gauges located in the top and bottom compartments indi-
cate how clogged or dirty the filter medium is by showing
a pressure difference or dr0p across the filter elements.
More and more pressure is lost as dirt, slime, et cetera build
up on the filter cake or precoat. The backwash cycle is usu-
ally started when the difference in pressure between the inlet
and outlet gauge on the filter equals twenty pounds per
square inch, plus the difference in pressure at the start of
the filtering cycle.

The filter must be cleaned or backwashed. To accomplish
this, the filter is drained, then full pump pressure is applied
to the bottom of the filter. Air is trapped in the upper com-
partment to provide an instantaneous high flow rate when
the quick opening valve is jerked open. This procedure is
repeated several times. The filter is then ready for precoat.
Diatomaceous earth, equivalent to approximately a tenth
of a pound per square foot of filter area, is added to the
precoat pot. The filter elements are then precoated, allow-
ing the water to run to waste until clear. It is absolutely
essential that once the precoat operation is started, that a
flow of water is maintained until the filter is back in service.
When more than one filter is used, precoat all filters simul-
taneously and establish the service flow before turning off
the precoat pot. To provide efficient and economical service
runs, a small amount of diatomaceous earth is fed continu-
ously to keep the precoat porous. This is accomplished by
the means of an ejector or hy positive displacement pump.

As the precoat hecomes fouled with dirt and slime, it
becomes increasingly difficult to hackwash clean. If the
service flow is stopped for any reason, it is recommended
that the unit he backwashed and a new precoat applied to
the filter. During the past few years many new types of
filters and filter elements have been put on the market. Some
have plastic- or dacron-covered discs. some are known as the
“leaf type.” Others have disposable filter cloth elements.
Many have simplified “spin cleaning”
discs clean. Others can be opened up and filter discs or ele-
ments flushed with a hose. Some are of the visible operation

to swish the filter

type, which take the “mystery” out of water filtration. Most
of the above types use diatomite media and are made hori-
zontally, vertically, and even sphere shaped.

The recirculating-type pool, which seems to be the modern
trend, is equipped essentially with a pump. haircatcher,
chemical and diatomite feeder, filter and chlorinator. The
circulating pump serves a twofold purpose; first. to recir-

419

culate the pool water and, second, to backwash the filters.
 '1' u" up must be capable of pumping the entire pool vol—
1...“ Li ough the filters in not more than three hours for
\ '1] w. IIC'UIS and not more than twelve hours for semi-public
j.« r 3. Similarly, a pump must be capable of backwashing
filters at a rate that will expend the sand and remove the
filter mat. This may require that filters be backwashed one
at a time where pool has two or more filters.

WHAT is meant by “pool turnover”? Every time an
amount of water equal to the total pool volume is
filtered, the pool is “turned over” once. The “turnover” rate
is the number of times the pool is turned over every twenty-
four hours. Thus, with a 100,000 gallon pool, if 300,000
gallons a day are filtered, the “turnover rate” is three. This
is frequently expressed as an eight-hour turnover. Similarly,
a six-hour turnover would give the “turnover” rate of four.

It is important to recognize, however, that all pool water
is not filtered in a single turnover. When filtering begins,
the first portion will be all dirty water, but shortly the dirty
pool water will be diluted by the returning filtered water.

For that reason, the pool purification is accomplished by
what engineers call consecutive dilution. For example, in
a pool containing a given amount of dirt, about 67 percent
will be removed on the first turnover, 86 percent after the
second, et cetera. Under ideal conditions of circulation,
seven turnovers are required to remove 99.9 percent of the
original dirt in the pool. In actual operation, though, the
pool will be in use while the water is being filtered and dirt
will, therefore, be added continuously, and filtered out. So,
after a period, the dirt content of the pool will reach equil-
ibrium and remain relatively constant, subject to the usual
bather load fluctuations.

Crystal clear water is also necessary for lifeguards to see
swimmers under water at all times. The health of the swim-
mer is at stake whenever the pool is operated haphazardly
and not well maintained. Unquestionably, a swimming pool
can be a potential public-health hazard. It places a burden
upon the filter operator to use all the preventive measures
available to protect the patrons that use the pool. The old
saying, “An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure,”

holds true. #

 

STATE

AND

LOCAL
DEVELOPMENTS

ELVIRA DELANY

 

ARIZONA. Thirty - three clocks control the automatic
sprinkling system at the new golf course in Phoenix. Papago
Park Golf Course opened in September, giving the city a
total of three l8-hole and one 9-hole municipal courses. The
new course, which covers 205 acres in the western portion of
Papago Park, is 6,690 yards in length. Greens are Penn-
cross Bent, a hardy, disease-resistant grass that remains green
all year round. Collars are Seaside Bent; tees, common
Bermuda and #328 Tifgreen, a highly refined Bermuda:
and the fairways, common Bermuda grass. Watering will
be accomplished by a fully automatic electric system time-
COntrolled by thirty-three clocks at three stations. The clocks
can be set by the minute, hour, day, or month to adjust the
watering schedule according to weather conditions.

The golf clubhouse, with a floor area of 5,893 square feet,
accommodates a pro shop; office, storage, and workshop;
cart storage; lockers and restrooms; and a coffee shop seat-
ing forty-five. The clubhouse is built on a mound and the
course can be viewed from expanses of glass in the restau-
rant and pro shop. A paved parking lot, near the clubhouse,
will have spaces for 249 cars.

420

ILLINOIS. The Forest Park Foundation has given a
$50,000 grant for construction of a nature center in the
five hundred-acre Forest Park area that is being preserved
as a woodland and wildlife refuge. The center will be known
as “Sommer House” in honor of the late Mr. and Mrs. Wil-
liam H. Somlner of San Jose, California. Mr. Sommer
was principal founder of the Forcst Park Foundation. By
terms of the agreement under which Forest Park Founda-
tion donated the wilderness land in January 1961, owner-
ship of the land is retained by Forest Park Foundation
with the Peoria Park District coordinating and controlling
the program to be carried out.

The nature center now being planned will providc class-
room spacc, display areas for specimens. and craft areas
for nature study. It is hoped that the center will be com-
pleted in time for some programing in 1963. As originally
specified, there will bc no picknicking, no horscback riding.
and no camping in the park. lt will remain a hiking and
nature study area.

Sincc the original grant of 391 acres two years ago. the
foundation has acquired additional woodland acreage in-
cluding sixty-five acres of wooded hills which were part
of the Dr. George Mitchell estate purchamd by the foun-
dation last spring for $125,000. With other small acreages
that have been addcd, Forest Park now constitutcs a total
of 490 acres. Only Detwciller Park with 756 acres is larger
in the Peoria park system.

LOUISIANA. Flowers—thousands of them. wherever the

eye falls, in every season of the year! Scene of this floral cx-
travaganza is Hodges Gardens, set in the rejuvenated wood-
lands of western Louisiana in the land of El Camino Real
near the town of Many, which was named for a colonel in
charge of the important American frontier post of Fort .lcsup
in the early 1800’s. El Camino Heal, the King’s Highway,
is rich in legend and lore reaching back five centuries. It
was roamed first by Caddo lndians over trails beat out by
liisons’ feet; traveled by French explorers to Old Mexico
from Natchitoches, Louisiana; by Spanish friars from Mex-
ico to East Texas; and hy American settlers in the westward
expansion. _

Founder of the gardens is A. J. Hodges, oil and timber

RECREATION

ousmessman, who has contributed much to the revitaliza-
tion of this historical but poverty-strickened area that had
been denuded and depleted of its longleaf virgin pine forests
since the turn of the twentieth century. In fact, the acreage
which encompasses the garden was originally purchased by
Mr. Hodges in 1937 to experiment in growing and cultivat-
ing pine trees, a reforestation project, which now covers
more than thirty-seven thousand acres of pine plantations.

A garden in the forest was not in the original plans until
an abandoned stone quarry with a singular charm all its
own was discovered on the land. Native dogwood and wild-
flowers amidst stately columns of pines rising from lichen-
covered rocks in the cathedral quiet of the quarry suggested
the planting of a few annuals. One planting led to another,
and soon visitors began to come. A 225-acre lake was built,
and in 1951 the natural and picturesque parkland was
Opened to the public as the Hodges Gardens.

Gardeners and landscape artists mapping the development
Of Hodges Gardens, found the quarry’s mounds of stone,
hummocks, and sugarloafs a perfect framework for colorful
plantations of flowers, waterfalls, and many pools. They
laced three levels of the quarry with ledgestone walks, leav-
ing large rocks stained and mellowed by half a century of
exposure as they were. Actually, the result of their work
combined with natural scenic heauty is several gardens
within a garden. Each is a separate entity, with a different
background, different plant materials, and a separate land-
scaping concept.

Besides its floral fantasies, Hodges Gardens is a wildlife
refuge where elk and deer graze on a twenty-five hundred-
acre pasture and ducks and geese arrive by the hundreds to
spend the winter. In addition, a holly research project in
the gardens arboretum is being conducted under the super-
vision of Southwest Louisiana Institute in Lafayette.

The garden’s fine-arts season Opens with the annual Eas-
ter sunrise service, which combines the voices of Centenary
College of Shreveport and church choirs of the El Camino
lieal area. This is followed by scheduled twilight concerts
and other fine-arts programs on the lakeshore stage of the
unique open-air bandshell through the spring and summer
months. In May when the roses in the gardens are in their
peak blooming season, the Louisiana Garden Club Federa-

 

Tochs Island Development. Secretary of the Interior Stewart
L. Udall (right) points out to John E. Calhoun, executive
secretary, Pocono Mountains Vacation. Bureau, and William
Altier, president of the bureau, the twcnty-seven-rnile rec-
reation area to be created by the proposed $130,000,000
Techs Island dam project to be located on the Delaware
River seven miles northeast of Stroudsburg, Pennsylvania.
Hub of the project is a I60-foot-high dam which, in addi-
tion. to forming a lake for ‘hshing, swimming. and boating,
will be used for water supply. flood control, and power.

NOVEMBER, 1963

 

The new Druid Hill Park Children’s Zoo in Baltimore, M ary-
land has a hundred-bell Schuhnerich “Americana” carillon.
Daily concerts are given on this specially designed carillon
to the delight of the zoo’s young visitors. Designed to edu-
cate, as well as entertain, the new zoo gives children hrst-
hand experiences with domestic animals and even has a
real dairy barn where the cows are milked twice daily.

w

tion sponsors a two-day Louisiana Festival of Roses with
participants from all over the state vying for trophies in
horticulture and design. An annual arts-and-crafts festival,
also a two-day event, is held in June, and all indications are
that it will become one of the largest of the outdoor exhibits
and sales festivals in the country.

MICHIGAN. Two of the three major parks of the Huron-

Clinton Metropolitan Authority reported record-breaking at-
tendance for 1962. Kensington Metropolitan Park, a forty-
five hundred-acre site southeast of Brighton, reported at-
tendance at 1,978,000, the highest annual total since the park
opened in 1948. Metropolitan Beach, a 550-acre recreation
site along Lake St. Clair near Mt. Clemens, bit record-break-
ing attendance with over 1,433,000 persons visiting in 1962.

MONTANA. The city of Billings has passed a $371,000
swimming pool bond issue, of which $111,316.50 is for thc
renovation of two existing pools and the remaining $260,211
for construction of a new pool. The new pool will be T-
shaped with underwater lighting and equipped with a heat-
ing system. It will be designed for use at AAU swimming
meets. The bathhouse will have coin-operated lockers. Plans
are to enclose the new pool at a later date. Final returns
showed 6,996 taxpayers favoring the bond issue and 6.487
against it.

NE\V HAMPSHIRE. Private business interests have been
asked to bid on food and souvenir concessions which grossed
nearly $500,000 last year at three major New Hampshire
state parks. This development, resulting from the issuance
of an executive order last spring hy Governor John W. King
provides for the leasing of sales operations at Franconia
Notch, Crawford Notch, and Mt. Sunapec State Park, be-
ginning this winter.

Invitations to bid on merchandising operations, which
last year grossed $467,819 (before deductions for cost,of
sales, et cetera). is the first step toward leasing similar sales
Operations at all stores in New Hampshire’s state park sys-

421

two. \L‘xt spring, bids will be solicited from private busi-
: s.- t' operate all other state park concessions selling sou-
\ t n- n - .md refreshments on a lease basis.

Ht «ontly affected are ten stores in the three state parks,
.. on of them in Franconia Notch. Their gross income of
: 16 i' .519 represents about 79 percent of the total gross in-
(omc of $601,779 (before deductions) from sales in all
state park souvenir stores and vending stands in the last
fiscal year. Effective this winter, all sales of ski accessorles
in ski shops at Cannon Mountain in Franconia and Mt. Sun-
apee in Newbury will be turned over to bidders who must
meet rigid qualifications imposed by the state. The parks
division will continue to offer rentals of equipment and re-
pairs in both ski shops.

Operation of state park stores by private business has
been conducted experimentally on a small scale at some
parks, but leasing of all stores in the park system will end
a system which started with the Reorganization Act of 1950.
That act placed such major state parks as Crawford, Fran-
conia, Sunapee, and many others under administration of
the State Division of Parks (formerly the New Hampshire
Recreation Division) and established the merchandising
section of Franconia Notch. Subsequent sessions of the
legislature imposed the so-called “pay-as-you-go” require-
ment upon the parks division, resulting in increased depend-
ence on the merchandising function to meet legislative de-
mands for increased income. The merchandising section as
a unit of the division was virtually abolished by the Re-
organization Act of 1961, which became effective 011 July
1,1962.

Merchandising operations last year accounted for 37 per-
cent of overall gross income from all state park operations.
A master plan—containing a proposal for bidders, an eight-
page prospectus with a complete listing of concession equip-
ment available in the ten storcs affected, contract forms and
specifications—was prepared by Richard N. Peale, director
of the Division of Purchase and Property, following three
and a half months of study and conferences with other state

officials.

NEW JERSEY. The town of Secaucus now has its first

park and recreation center. The population of this formerly
agricultural community has increased by more than twenty-
five percent in the last ten years, counter to the trend in the
rest of Hudson County. Located in the center of the town.
adjacent to the existing public library, the park is expected
to serve as a focal point for the expanding community. Con-
struction of the park was largely made possible by Albert
Buchmuller, a local businessman whose eontrihutions paid
for the major construction costs. Land for the project was
donated by the municipality while the enthusiastic partici-
pation of local civic and religious leaders insured its com-
pletion.

The park provides for intensive, diversified use of its
space. The various facilities are connected by a central
theme as the harlequin design of the fieldhouse roof is
suggested intermittently throughout the park. Many of the
facilities are dual-purpose. A sunken ice-skating rink has
been designed to allow roller-skating in warm weather.
Twin basketball courts have been laid out for field hockey
and the circular sandbox with its louvered roof in the chil-
dren’s play area has been surrounded with benches and
shrubs to allow comfortahle picknicking. Other facilities
include tennis courts with all-weather surfacing; an open
mall for outdoor dances and gatherings with a fountain as
background; a Little League baseball field with cantilevered
concrete bleachers, built-in dugouts, a public-address system
and electric seorehoard; a fieldhouse arranged in hays to
allow for arts and crafts exhihits, chess and checker pavil-
ions, and other forms of passive recreation. Areas for dif-

422

ferent age groups throughout the park are separated by
walks and landscaping. A seating plaza has been provided
outside the skating rink to accommodate shoppers from the
nearby shopping area. Throughout the park, there are
drinking fountains, waiting areas, landscaping and shrubs.
A piece of abstract aluminum sculpture by Pierre Pezzella
is mounted behind the handball courts.

NE\V YORK. A valuable fifty-acre beach and harbor area

known as the Sand Hole at Lloyd Neck, near Huntington,
Suffolk County, Long island, has been given by Sherman
M. Fairehild, industrialist and aviation pioneer, to the Long
Island State Park Commission as an addition to Caumsett
State Park. The donated property is part of one of the few
remaining large private harbors on the island’s north shore.
Together with over 1,426 acres of Caumsett State Park re-
cently purchased by the commission from Mrs. Marshall
Field and the Field Foundation, it will provide space for
a wildlife sanctuary, boating, and other outdoor recreation.
Ultimately, Caumsett State Park will be developed with golf
courses, nature trails, bridle paths. picnic and conservation
areas, but the park improvements are not expected to be
completed and opened for public use for several years.

TENNESSEE. The Memphis Park Commission recently
voted to name one of the city’s largest and newest parks in
honor of the late Mr. and Mrs. Harvey S. Firestone. Plans
are now under way to develop the 316-acre tract of land,
which, when completed, will contain baseball diamonds, a
nine-hole golf course, and picnic area with shclter house.
Mr. Firestone is a former member of the Memphis Park
Connuission board. He and his family lived in the city from
1937 until 1949 while he served as president of the Firestone
Tire and Rubber Company of Tennessee. Now mostly un-
developed farmland, the park area is located approximately
six miles north of the Firestone plant in Memphis. and is
said to have “tremendous possibilities.”

CANADA

QUEBEC. Beauty can be inexpensive, says Montreal Parks
Director Andre Champagne in giving a progress report on
the city's program of transforming vacant and often neg
spaces into “quiet corners.” He reports that, through the
joint effort of the parks, roads, planning and public works
departments, quiet corners have been established at sixteen
locations in vacant lots. The corners have been cleared,
levelled and furnished with park benches, trees. shrubs and
fiowers in tubs, saucers, and flower boxes. In some places,
an expanse of concrete has been transformed into a beauty
spot with greenery, color, and benches in the heart of a
bustling midtown apartment area. Elsewhere, ugly back-
yards are screened off with attractively Colored panels and
fences to form the background for narrow strips of rest spots.
Sometimes, a blank wall is repainted to form a suitable back-
drop for the quiet corner.

First steps in the program were taken during the planning
for the 1962 Beautification Week, which falls under the juris-
diction of the road department, when the planning depart-
ment was given the job of tackling the first corners. The
parks and public works departments were drawn into the
program to supply the construction and plants. In each case,
Mr. Champagne explains, the work was done with materials
at hand and at little cost. Several of the projects were done
in a matter of hours. The quiet corners are in addition to
the parks department’s street beautification program which
this year featured the placing of 170 trees. mostly Chinese
elms, in tubs along Sherbrooke and St. Catherine Streets
and Dorehester Boulevard, and placing 186 flower haskets
on light standards along busy midtown streets.

RECREATION

I”!

0‘
I
I
‘
L
I
I
r

II. as non
III-- III...-
IIIII III-III
II' II ‘IIII

 

RECREATION

DIGEST

M   Are we giving families

an opportunity

FAMILY NEEDS

RUTH S. TEFFERTELLER

RGANIZATION of group work and
O recreation services in such a
way as to provide opportunities
for more family activities—giving fam-
ilies a chance to perform as families, to
mingle with. and learn from, other fam-
ilies—should be one of the primary ob—
jectives of social work agencies. For it
is well known to the profession that
many families fall short of their fulfill-
ment and increasingly need the chance
to find their strengths, to exercise their
family identity, and to feel their family
vitality through special kinds of experi-
ences.

The fields of group work and recrea-
tion, with their special skills for devel-
oping programs and techniques which
build group strength and solidarity,
seem peculiarly well qualified to lend a
hand in designing new types of family-
oriented programs which could help to
strengthen family life. Our tendency to
oversegregate the ages. together with
the numerous problems that arise from
weak family life, suggest that there
should be a sharper focus on services

 

MRS. T EFFERTELLER is program direc-
tor of the Henry Street Settlement on,
New Y or]: City’s Lower East Side. This
materiai is digested and used with per-
mission from Helping the Family in Ur-
ban Society, edited by Fred DeiliQaadi
(Cohan bia University Press, New Y ork
City, 1963

NOVEMBER, 1963

which will strengthen parents and aid
the family as a whole.

Our group work and recreation agen-
cies report that, increasingly, the major
responsibility for managing and con-
ducting their well designed programs
for children has fallen almost com-
pletely to professional leadership, with
a staggering diminution of parental in-
volvement in their children’s social life.
Parent meetings are poorly attended,
and adults who join clubs and classes

are less and less those who are related.

to the children and young people in the
agency’s junior divisions.

Should we not be asking ourselves
whether our recreation planning has
become so child-centered that adults see
no role for themselves, except when
their children receive awards or take
part in performances? A mournful la-
ment pervades most of our agencies:
“How can we get the parents?” Have
we also wondered whether we are prop-
erly set up to attract them? Would pro—
grams which aim specifically at encour-
aging and inviting the family, as such,
possibly be more meaningful, even
more convenient, for the parents? Com-
mitted though the whole social work
profession is to the basic worth and im-
portance of the family, it is also true
that much of what has resulted from our
efforts to meet individual and age group
needs has tended to exclude the family.
Yet one of the greatest potentials for in-

to perform as families?

volving adults with childrcn lics in play
and recreation.

THE INCREASE in misdemeanors and

delinquency among children in the
seven- to twelve-year-age bracket is
forcing us to recognize not only the
breakdown of parental control but the
need for parents to remain close to their
children. The problem poses questions
as to how our programs can more spe-
cifically contribute toward revitalizing
parent-child relationships and in what
areas of life our particular skills can
help shore up family relationships. In
New York City, the Henry Street Settle-
ment’s six-year demonstration project
in delinquency prevention among pre-
adolescent children in antisocial groups,
vividly and poignantly reveals how
much more effective preventive work
became as the settlement stepped up its
efforts to take the parents of these chil-
dren into a friendly partnership.

The most effective tools we discov-
ered for overcoming the defensiveness
and superficial apathy often encoun-
tered when parents are approached in-
dividually were the family meetings and
gatherings. Here, recreation and socia-
bility helped to draw all of us into more
positive relationships. Arousing paren-
tal interest in the children’s activities
through mutual participation in dances,
outings, and parties helped to build a
community of parents and families

423

1:112. uni rliese children. This has con-
*‘Hutr enormously to the improved
an no: of the individual children and
f .tteir groups. Parents are function-

...g with more confidence and energy.
They are using their natural authority
more consistently. The children and
their friends. once the unior followers
of teen-age gangs, are thoroughly en-
joying the attention and concern of
their parents; the parents, in turn, seem
grateful for all that the agency has done
to help strengthen their position in the
eyes of their youngsters.

The inherent and natural opportuni-
ties for family functioning in contem-
porary society in and of themselves are
constantly changing. Functions are
changing and do not altogether promote
the kind of solidarity we used to take
for granted. Joint and mutual activity,
considered valuable in making the fam-
ily a unit and useful for relieving ten-
sions and difficulties, now require more
conscious planning and scheduling on
the part of everyone. The gradual dis-
appearance of many of the creative
tasks performed in the home has less-
ened the opportunity for parents and
children to work together.

The family-centered workshops in
many of our settlements, pioneered at
Henry Street twenty years ago, have
met with enormous success. Fathers
and sons repair and build furniture to-
gether. Mothers and daughters make
dresses for themselves. A parent and
child replace soles and lifts on shoes
for the whole family. These Open-door
programs are not graded on an age
basis and have a strong tendency to in-
duce family participation in a meaning-
ful way. Needless to say, they meet with
added success because crowded city
apartments prohibit carrying on such
projects in the home. We must also re-
alize that many of our adults could not
undertake these enterprises without the
help of special instructors and programs

which provide for learning and achieve-
ment.

THOUGH PLANNING and selecting pro-

grams which we can confidently
say will strengthen family life is difficult
and complicated, we can never over-
look the rich potential within the f rame-
work of group work and recreation
which are replete with ideas and goals

424

for group participation. The very core
of our daily professional tasks deals
with the scheduling of services which
build and strengthen character and so-
cial relationships. They constantly fo-
cus on giving groups a chance to de-
velop good team spirit, to play and work
together, to plan and create together,
to participate without pressure, to gain
strength through unity, to interact
wholesomely with other groups. We
need to carry some of this idealism into

special programing for families.
WE MUST also recognize that the

budgets of many make family
recreation almost prohibitive. If such
experiences are valid and essential, if
organized efforts are needed to promote
joint family experiences, then recrea-
tion and group work agencies, puhlic
and voluntary, must make'fuller pro-
vision for appropriate family services,
as well as subsidizing recreation and
group activities for the different age
groups.

The Henry Strect Settlement felt
strongly enough on this suhject to con-
vert its country property, which had
been operated for over fifty ycars as a
residential camp for girls, into a family
day camp. Entire families-parents,
grandparents. children—went off on
outings togethcr. Participation far sur-
passed even expectations. and with a
quality of enthusiasm that obviously
represented their appreciation for a
chance to get away as a family.

A whole new dimension was added
to regular summer programs. More
fathers played hall with their sons than
ever hefore; more mothers got out of
the kitchen to gather their families
around tables under the trees: and more
neighbors learned to know each othcr
hetter under pleasant circumstances and

discovered common interests. None of
these families. all living on the lower

* * *

The deep, underlying cause of de-
linquent children is simply delinquent
adults. There are many contributing
causes of delinquence, but only one
that is profoundly difiicult to cure: the
immaturity, the indifference, the lack
of moral values on the part of adults
delinquent children see every day of
their lives. —ELEANOR H. LAKE in
the Junior Leagae Magazine.

East Side of Manhattan could have af-
forded family vacations or trips, had
the country day program not been avail-
able—seven days a week—at very nom-
inal fees.

The family day-camp program also
made it possible to attract to the settle-
ment, through a single service, whole
families, many of thcm new in the
neighborhood. In a fast-changing com-
munity it is certainly more expedient
and more productive to reach the whole
family at once than to contact one mem-
ber at a time. The family day camp was
no more costly than the resident camp,
yet it served 550 families, or almost
three thousand people, rather than 240
individual girls. Though Henry Street
still heartily endorses residential camp-
ing for girls and may eventually resume
that program. our assessment of family
needs in the light of the present com-
munity situation led us to give higher
priority to a different pattern of service.

ALL our social agencies and institu-
tions urgently need to find new
ways to reestablish the authority and
importance of the family. To some of
us it has seemed at timcs that we were
becoming addicted to a kind of nega-
tive thinking, charging the family with
being “thc root of all evil,” without ex-
amining closely enough the conditions
which create the evil. How far, indeed,
can we go in recommending rccreation
programs to fit the nceds of thc modern
family, if, as in some sections of this
country, we arc still engaged in proving
that economic assistance programs are
not undermining the stahility of the
American family? It is not enough to
talk ahout gearing recreation to fit fam-
ily and individual needs. It is thc pro-
gram we work for and support that will
finally demonstrate thc philosophy we
represent—if, indeed, we have one.
Recrcation and group work agencies,
as community institutions, are in a sen-
sitive position to translate the commu-
nity’s attitude toward fatnin life as well
as publicize any special values which
the community chooses to emphasize.
Our recreation and group work services
can he designed and tailored to stimu-
late family functioning, promote family
and community relationships, and con-
tribute toward strengthening family life
for a free society and its children. 

RECREATION

WHAT IS CYBERNETICS?

While the science of cybernetics is unfamiliar to the great majority of
Americans, it may revolutionize everyday life in. the United States

in the foreseeable future

JACK J. HONOMICHL

HAT was the matter with Elsie?
She “seemed anxious . . . she

was obviously looking for some-
thing. I knew what it was: a light. . . .
Grey \Valter switched on a lamp and
immediately Elsie . . . caught sight of it.
Now Elsie knew where she wanted to go

. no, she hesitated a moment, contin-
uing her exploration.”

This description of Elsie’s behavior
might have been written about any ani-
mal looking for something. But when
written about Elsie, it sparks the imag-
ination of scientists the world over,
alarms labor leaders, disturbs social
critics and intrigues military and in-
dustrial leaders.
made animal.

Formally christened “Electro-Light-
Sensitive-Internal-External” by her cre-
ator, Dr. W. Grey Walter, Elsie is one
primitive step toward an ultimate goal
of duplicating human behavior in ma-
chines. Spawned by the fledgling field
of science known as cybernetics, mech-
anisms akin to Elsie have already made
possible such technological feats as

For Elsie is a man-

missiles, submarine
cruises under the North Pole, and auto-
mated factories.

Dr. Claude E. Shannon, a prominent
cyberneticist at the Massachusetts In-
stitute of Technology, has suggested
that “in ten or fifteen years we will see
machines doing complex intellectual
tasks—*writing theorems of interest to
mathematicians, turning in good trans-

intercontinental

 

M R. HONOMICHL is vice-president of the
M arket Research Corporation of Amer-
ica. This material is digested and re-
printed frozn Challenge, The Magazine
of Economic A jjairs, published by the
Institute of Economic A gairs, New
York University.

NOVEMBER, 1963

lations, understanding their environ-
ment. After that, we can expect the
general-purpose robot.” Other cyber-
neticists .foresee artificial limbs that will
enable amputees to perceive many of
the feelings and sensations we per-
ceive from our own limbs. Another de-

lvice may make it possible for the blind

to “read” by assigning sounds to printed
The blind would then be

able to read by listening to the noises

characters.

 

DIGEST

0 Connnunications and controls are
closely related.

I A better understanding of machines
will help man to better understand or-
ganic life; or, conversely, man can im-
prove machines by imitating life proc-
esses.

MAN’S DESIRE to construct lifelike
machines is an old one. In 1640,
Descartes proved, at least to his satis-

 

a page makes when scanned by the
device.

However, much of the future impact
of cybernetics will be focused on indus-
try. While there are now a few manu-
facturing processes which are almost
completely automated, there are many
more where management has yet to hear
of cybernetics.

To appreciate what cybernetics are
working toward, and how it will affect
our lives, we must take a brief look at
their history and theories. Cybernetics
is basically the study of control and
communication in both animals and
machines, under three guiding princi-
ples:

0 Organic life can be approximated (if
not explained) by mathematical rea-
soning.

faction, that they could be built. Many
men have since shared Descartes” fas-
cination with the idea, and working
mechanical animals have been dis-
played as objects of curiosity at techni-
cal conventions regularly since the late
1920's.

One of the most renowned synthetic
animal builders is W. Grey Walter, a
British neurophysiologist equally well
versed in electronics. His goal was to
create mechanical models of instinctive
behavior to prove that it takes only a
small number of elements to organize
a complex mode of activity, thereby
proving that the functions of living
nerve cells are far more simple than is
generally supposed. He therefore de-
veloped Elsie.

Attempts to build calculating ma-

425

chi“... in do mathematical problems
‘. ‘ H 'x n traced back to the early 17th
One of the most famous at-

,m— was made by Charles Babbage,
Em 131.5. lishman and professor of mathe-
malics at Oxford University. In the
early 1300’s he reportedly spent twenty-
iive years of his life and 250,000 pounds
trying to build an analytical machine
which would be governed by a perfo-
rated program belt similar to the tapes
used to feed data to modern computers.

i'dl‘.

COMPUTERS are mainly designed for
two types of work: to do mathe-
matical problems and to do paper work.
An example of the latter is the US.
Army’s BIZMAC, reputedly one of the
largest systems of its kind. It consists
of ninety-seven units and covers twenty
thousand square feet of Floor space.
There are twenty-five electric type-
writers attached to BIZMAC. If an in-
ventory is needed to determine, for ex-
ample, how many 20MM shells there are
in twelve ordnance depots. the infor-
mation spews forth in less than three
minutes at the rate of six hundred lines
per minute.

It is natural that such prodigious
machines get headlines in the press and
are subject to the popular misconcep-
tion that they are cybernetic machines
and able to think for themselves. Ac-
tually, electronic computers have rela-
tively low status in the hierarchy of
mechanisms which include Elsie. Their
actions are rigidly determined in ad-
vance. They possess no margin of lih-
erty, no possibility of initiative.

One thing which leads peOple to com-
pare the workings of computers with
those of the human brain is their ability
to retain tremendous amounts of infor-
mation to be drawn upon at a later time.
Norbert Wiener contends that digital
computers, utilizing the binary num-
bering system, in fact duplicate the
brain’s pattern of thinking. He has also
suggested that “mental breakdowns”
suffered by computers when fed con-
flicting data are like mental illness in
humans.

The strongest supporters of this line
usually end their argument by conced-
ing that the computer’s intelligence has
“an elusive, unnatural quality.” Those
against tend to he as blunt as Harvard
University cyberneticist Howard Aiken,

426

“They can’t think any more than a
stone.”

This is not to belittle the feats of
computers. From a cyberneticist’s point
of view, they can be extremely valuable
as an integral part of a complete cyber-
netic system. Standing alone, some ad-
vanced models can make up to 250,000
calculations per second. Doctors hope
that the diagnosis of illness can one day
be facilitated by loading computers
with the total knowledge of medical sci-
ence on given diseases.

There are now machines which can
translate a foreign language into Eng—
lish at the rate of eighteen hundred

 

words per minute, while human trans-
lators average ahout twenty-six hundred
words per day. Improvements in these
machines will mean that scientific and
medical writings puhlished in other
languages will be readily available to
us, albeit good literature would be
hacked to pieces.

THE IMPACT of cybernetics is hasten-

ing the day when many more in-
dustries will he as automated as the
chemicals. petroleum refining, and tel-
ephone industries are now, and this
brings problems. The public-relations
director of a large electronics manufac-
turer told me of-the dilemma he faced
because his company had just finished
building a new factory. On such occa-
sions it was established practice for the
company to hold an open house at the
new installation for employees and their
families from other plants. This time
they weren’t sure it was a good idea. it

would have been demoralizing for them
to be shown machines performing much
their own kind of work.

Other managers will be facing this
situation as cybernetic devices hecome
more sophisticated, more dependable.
and less costly. More and more indus-
trial production will be entrusted to
truly automatic factories consisting of
machines taking their orders from giant
computers and sending back progress
reports to serve as the basis for new
instructions.

Businessmen can’t help but be in-
trigued at how computers can maximize
profits. Where petroleum refineries use
computers to plan production. in less
than fifteen minutes they can tell how
to get the most profit from a day’s crude
oil production relative to the market
demand for hundreds of possible re-
finery end products whose prices fluc-
tuate daily.

Cybernetics is also an important
weapon in our economic cold war with
the Communist bloc. “The U.S.S.R. is
making an all-out effort to cybernate as
much of its planning-economic-indus-
trial operation as it can,” according to
the Fund for the Republic. And for the
military, cybernetic devices have made
possible SOphisticated weaponry such as
the “black hox” inertial navigator
which guides man or missile without
stars, radar or human help. It will also
tell you exactly where you are at any
given time.

It is such “black boxes” which have
made possible the polar crossings by
submarine the intercontinental
missile. A sixth of the huge Redstone
missile is used to house its guidance
system. And when man gocs to the
moon, cybernetic devices will go with
him to make decisions and give orders
to other mechanisms. (See also “Our
New Automated World,” Page 401.)

With the fertile imaginations of men
like Wiener and \Valter, coupled with
huge expenditures of government and
industry, the field of cyhernetics should
produce astounding changes in the
years ahead. indeed, one of the few

and

areas which will rcmain untouched is

the arts. As Claude Shannon puts it
“. . . poetry. art, music, novels . . . they
are several magnitudes beyond the ma-
chine since they involve emotional re-

lationships.” Butmaybe someday.. . ?

RECREATION

3 FOR THE ILL €55 HANDICAPPED

 

'l‘ The Federal Public Health Service

Project on Recreation for Arthritics
began operation on September 16, 1963
in Philadelphia. Jerry \Vargo, formerly
recreation director of the United Cere-
bral Palsy Association of Philadelphia,
is the project recreation supervisor, and
' Rodney Valentine, who came from the
Children’s Hospital, Newington, Con-
necticut, is assistant recreation super-
visor for the project. The staff is cur-
rently selecting fifteen arthritics for a
,‘pilot study and, with the physicians,
are evaluating them physically, socially,
and emotionally.

These arthritics will be referred
through the Philadelphia Recreation
Department to ongoing recreation pro-
grams in city recreation and other
agency centers near their homes for ac-
tivity and socialization. The cases will
be evaluated periodically to check prog-
ress in the various categories being
studied. The project’s goal is to assim-
ilate a hundred arthritics into various
center programs in the community with
the programs meeting specific special
needs of those persons needing such
assistance.

+ The recreation program of the Uni-
versity of \Vashington Hospital in Seat-
tle was recently awarded first place in a
national hospital patient public-rela-
tions and recreation contest sponsored
by the Edison Chemical Company. Joan
Nielson, recreation director of the hos-
pital, explains that the University of
Washington Hospital placed first for
hospitals of 141 to 225 beds for general
patient groups“ including psychiatric,
surgical and pediatrics. The award in-
cluded a trophy, plaque, and cash. Over
five hundred hospitals were entered in
the national contest.

0 The Seattle Handicapped Club, a
nonprofit organization, received a cita-
tion this fall from the National Recrea-
tion Association for providing outstand-
ing social benefits for the welfare of
physically handicapped adults. Charles
H. Odegaard, NR'A district representa-
tive, presented the citation which was
recommended by the Seattle Park De-
partment. The club uses facilities pro-
vided by the park department.

The organization is not sponsored by
any group or agency and is financed
solely by membership fees and its pub-

 

DR. THOMPSON is director of the Na-
tional Recreation. Association Consult-
ing Service on Recreation for the Ill
and Handicapped.

NOVEMBER, 1963

MORTON THOMPSON, Ed.D.

lication, The Good Samaritan. Other in-
come activities are being developed in
order to expand the program and to
build a residence home for the comfort
and convenience of the disabled. The
Handicapped Club, an affiliate of the
NRA, provides members with club
cards, which entitle members to dis-
counts on equipment, such as wheel-
chairs, and admits memhers to many
special events in the community includ-
ing special parking areas. The handi-
capped members operate the club and
do most of the work themselves. This
is an outstanding achievement.

+ A new catalogue of aids and appli-
ances for the visually handicapped is
now aVailable from the American
Foundation for the Blind, 15 West 16th
Street, New York 11, in both ink print
and Braille editions. It lists hundreds
of interesting gifts suitahle for the vis-
ually handicapped person. All can be
purchased at cost.. There are, for ex-
ample, a pictureless television set, writ-
ing and drawing aids, tools and instru-
ments, a large selection of Braille
watches and clocks, many kitchen aids,
games of all sorts, and medical aids.

+ A letter to the editor. in the Fehru-
ary 1, 1963 issue of Medical World
News, written by Kurt Unger, M.D.,
tells of arrangements he has made for
tours of the Continent by groups of
chronically ill patients. The pleasure
trips will last several weeks, with the
travelers remaining under medical care.
Registered nurses. hriefed on the con-
dition of each, will accompany the
patients on a specially prepared slow-
moving itinerary. English-speaking
physicians will take care of patient
needs all along the route. Record
charts, internationally understood and
prepared with the patient’s own doctors
c00perating, are to be taken along. A
New York travel agency is handling
details and the cost should not exceed
the customary cost of better-class ar-
rangements. Further information can
be ohtained by writing Dr. Unger at
33-15 34th Avenue, Astoria 6, New
York.

+ The first National Institute for Half-
way Houses will be held in Chicago.
Decemher 2-4 at the Pick-Congress Ho-
tel. The institute’s program will be di-
rected to the expansion and improve-
ment of rehabilitation services for
persons with neuropsychiatric disabili-
ties. Halfway houses arc relatively new,

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

not highly structured or stabilized, and
struggling with the question of how to
establish the best possible program for
the treatment of the post-hospital pa-
tient.

’3‘ Arizona State University provides a
special service to sports fans physically
unable to climb the ramps to their seals
in the stadium. The Blanchard Com-
pany, local Coca-Cola distributors. do-
nated four Cushman electric-powercd
vehicles which transport disabled per-
sons up the ISO-foot ramps to their

seats. #

 

Make Hundreds
of items with TANDY’S

 

Reinforced far extra strength,

. features.
fabric tape center covered with flame resistant
plastic—will not stretch ar peel—23 calars.

sturdy

[00 yard spaal, 1.25.

ngIUpS.

BRAIDING 8: [AGING

Quantity discount to

 

Bracelets, Belts,
Caat Hangers, many others. all easy ta make
with Dora-Flex. /'

new 112 PAGE
' CATALOG

i222 money-making, money-
saving ideas. AII easy-ta-make and save up to

50%.. kits, taals, patterns, etc.

     

TANDV LEATHEH COMPANY
P. 0. Box 791 -AQ Fort Worth, Texas

427

 REPORTER’S NOTEBOOK

 

Service Club Winners
Two service clubs from Fifth Army

and one from United States Army
Japan won first prizes of $500 each in
the fifth All-Army contest, “Operation
Service Club,” judged in Washington,
D. C., in September. The Open Door
Service Club of Camp Zama, Japan,
took first place in Category 1; Peak
Service Club of Ft. Carson, Colorado,
in Category II; and Fitzsimons Service
Club of Denver, Colorado, in Category
II]. There were forty-four entries from
the three categories in the final judging.
A preliminary final judging in August
had reduced the list from seventy. Origi-
nally, 235 of the 291 service clubs had
taken part in the project.

The Open Door Service Club won
over sixteen other rivals in Category 1,
which involves a complete program over
a period of one month. The winning
project included four programs—so-
cial. competitive, creative, and intellec-
tual—and represented an eXpansion of
programs which were tried earlier and
were successful. Club director Dolores
D. Beckmann, program director Mrs.
Ruth G. Grant, and the Enlisted Ad-
visory Council decided that the club
would benth more from a new twist
added to old ideas then they would
from something “way out.” The pro-
gram. which took place in February,
included a Kanto Plains Valentine
Square Dance Jamboree, King for a
Night Contest. Contemporary Japanese
Art Exhibition and Classic Japanese
Painting Demonstration, and an Em-
bassy Night featuring Hong Kong.

Peak Service Club was voted Number
One among twenty candidates in Cate-
gory II, which was made up of a theme
program and a special interest or hobby
project. The theme project was the
Pikes Peak Jazz Festival. Three con-
certs were presented on a Sunday in
December 1962. The special interest
project was The Roaring 20‘s Revue in
September 1962. The program was
planned and conducted with the assist-
ance of the Peak Service Club’s En-
listed Advisory Council by club direc-
tor Anne L. Lewis, assistant director

428

Mrs. Sara Murphy, and program direc-
tor Mrs. Rosemary D. Eaklor.
Fitzsimons Service Club won over six
other entries in Category III, which was
a four-part program over a period of
one year. The winning entry consisted

of a “Thank You, USO!” dinner dance
(social), “What’s My MOS” panel
show (intellectual), “Bus Stop” play
(creative), and Christmas Eve Party
(competitive). Club director for Fitz-
simons is Jane A. Morrison. She was
assisted by Entertainment NCO Sp4-
Anthony J. Mendez.

Judges for the contest, who were
honored at a luncheon at Ft. Lesley J.
McNair, included Virginia Musselman,
director of the National Recreation As-
sociation Program Service; Dr. Grace
Hewell, program coordination officer,
Department of Health, Education and
Welfare, Washington, D. C.; S. Key
Dickinson. executive secretary, Depart-
ment of the Army Board of U. S. Civil
Service Examiners, Washington. D. C.;
Dr. Fred Coombs, chairman of Rccrea-
tion. Education Curriculum. Dcpart-
ment of Physical Education, Pennsyl-
State University, University
Park; Ralph Wilson. director of recrea-

vania

tion and parks, Arlington County De-
partment of Recreation and Parks. Ar-
lington; Virginia; Katherinc M. Caul.
director of Neighborhood Centers Divi-
sion. District of Columbia Recreation
Department, Washington, D. C.; Justin
G. Doyle, (Colonel. USA Ret.), com-
mandant of cadets, Peekskill Military
Academy, Peekskill, New York; Leota
A. Kelly, assistant national director,
Supplemental Recreation Activities
Overseas, American Red Cross. Wash-
ington. D. C.; Dr. Earl Kauffman.
chairman, Division of Recreation, Uni-
versity of Kentucky, Lexington. Ken-
tucky; James S. Stevens, J r., associate
director, North Carolina Recreation
Commission. Raleigh; Lillian Sum-
mers, assistant national director, Serv-
ices in Military and Veterans Hospitals-
Recreation, American Red Cross, Wash-
ington, D.C.; and Theresa S. Brungardt,
Vermont director of recreation, State
Board of Recreation, Montpelier.

Teenage Conference

Teenagers, fourteen to eighteen years
of age, from the thirteen recreation
centers that comprise the south Los
Angeles district of municipal recrea-
tion centers recently participated in a
youth conference to discuss current top-
ies and issues, to learn conference pro-
cedures and techniques; and to foster
co-recreational teenage club ideas in
the district. Following a speech by Lee
Giroux, TV personality and newsman,
delegates separated into six 45-minute
“buzz sessions” to discuss dances and
parties, program planning, public re-
lations, youth and parent relationships,
problems of delinquency and youth em-
ployment. The “buzz session” topics
were compiled from suggestions sub-
mitted by teenage clubs at the south Los
Angeles City recreation centers, accord-
ing to Clora L. Wright, conference
chairman. At the conclusion of the
“buzz sessions,” group leaders sum-
marized the issues discusscd hy their
individual groups.

PEOPLE IN THE NEWS

George Hjelte,
who has been act-
ing as part-time
consultant with the
Los Angeles City
Recreation and
Parks Department

since his

 

retire-
ment as general manager last year, will
devote full time to rendering profes-
sional expert and technical advice in
the planning, construction, and organi-
zation of the ncw Greater Los Angeles
Zoo. Mr. Hjelte, a member of the Na-
tional Recreation Association Board of
Trustees, is also the co-author of the
recently published Public Administra-
tion 0/ Park and Recreational Services

(see Page 434).

Jed H. Davis of the University of Kan-

sas in Lawrence is the new director of
the Children’s Theatre Conference. He
succeeds Agnes Haaga. Mr. Davis is co-

RECREATION

iuthor of Children’s Theatre: Play Pro-
duction for the Child Audience (Har-
per, 1960).

Anne C. Ford is the new field-service
director of Girls Club of America. In
her new post, Mrs. Ford will serve as
liaison between the national youth or-
ganization and member clubs through-
out the United States and in Canada.
GCA serves more than fifty thousand
girls from six through high-school age.
Before joining GCA, Mrs. Ford was an
executive with Girl Scouts of the USA
for eighteen years, serving as liaison
with government agencies in Washing-
ton, D.C., and as school-relations ad-
visor. An expert in camping activities,
Mrs. Ford has directed and coordinated
courses for Girl Scout camp directors.

Loyd B. Hatha-

way, pioneer rec-
reation leader in
North Carolina
and the nation, has
retired as recrea-
tion director for
the city of Win-
ston-Salem after forty-two years of
service with the city. A scholarly man
with a deep-seated devotion to athletics
and the literary arts, Mr. Hathaway
started his career in physical education
and recreation, as instructor in the
Winston-Salem public schools and has
piloted the city’s recreation program

 

from its first tentative beginnings to the
full-scale operation it enjoys today. He
is succeeded by Joe W'hite, formerly
assistant director.

Arthur Todd, di-
rector of the Na-
tional Recreation
Association Field
Service, will visit
some fifteen Air
Force bases in Ger-
many, France, and
England beginning October 28 to do an

 

evaluation of the Air Force Service
Club program, in order to determine
whether the program is meeting pres-
ent-day leisure-time needs of Air Force
personnel. Mr. Todd will also address
the annual conference of the European
Recreation Society in Berchtesgaden,

NOVEMBER, 1963

Germany. November 8-10. Mr. Todd
helped establish the ERS in 1959 when
he was recreation management consult-
ant to Headquarters USAFE in Wies-
baden, Germany.

Loy Morrow, city of Miami parks su-
perintendent, has been appointed as-
sistant to James W. Hilton, director of
parks and recreation. Mr. Morrow
started with the parks department in
1937 as a laborer. In his new post, he
will be responsible for high-level mas-
ter-plan projects, such as land acquisi-
tion, and will work with the newly ap-
pointed citizen’s advisory committee on
recreation needs—with particular em-
phasis on adult and senior-citizen pro-
grams.

 

IN MEMORIAM

 

M. ESTHYR FITZGERALD, director of rec-
reation in Utica, New York, for thirty-
eight years, died recently at the age of
sixty-six. Miss Fitzgerald joined the
city’s recreation department in 1919.,
was named superintendent in 1922, and
served in that capacity until 1956 when
a department of parks and recreation
was established and her title became
director of recreation. During her years
of recreation service, Miss Fitzgerald
was instrumental in developing the
city’s recreation facilities from the op-
eration of five areas to a modern system
of twenty-two playgrounds, plus swim-
ming and wading pools, fully equipped
and staffed with instructors and direc-
tors. She also developed an extended
system of community center activities,
many held in school buildings during
winter evenings. She retired in 1960.

1. ROBERT M. SHULTZ, superintendent
of recreation in Bridgeport, Connecti-
cut for thirteen years, died in Septem-
her at the age of fifty-seven. Mr. Shultz
was noted for his level-headed approach
to problems and for his fount of imagi—
nation. He served with distinction 011
a number of the National Recreation
Association’s National Advisory Com-
mittees and at the time of his death was
a member of the NRA National Advis-
ory Committee for International Serv-
ices. He was also a member of the
National Committee 011 Recreation

Standards.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

Only The Best
E (1 U l P M E N T
Is Good Enough

 

AMERICAN
"APPROVED"—

PARK and PICNIC,
PLAYG R0 U N D

AND SWIMMING
POOL EQUIPMENT

The wise choice of experienced
buyers for more than half a century.
Write for comprehensive literature.

AMERICAN

PLAYGROUND DEVICE co.
ANDERSON, INDIANA, U.S_.A.

WORLD'S LARGEST MANUFACTURERS. or run:
max. PICNIC. PLAYGROUND. swmums
POOL AND onessmc new EQUIPMENT

LARGEST IMPORTER

of Judo and Karate Equipment

Husky. long-wearing “Lion Brand"
and “Victory Cup Brand" Judo and
Karate suits. Liberal discounts for
quantity orders. Complete library of
Judo, Karate and Aikido books. Also
emblems and jewelry.

Write for complete price list folder.



Dept. R, 50 West 47th Street ..
N.Y., N.Y. 10036/Clrcle 5-0365

 

429

UARKET NEWS

 

0 Sound system. A twenty-page catalogue, which describes
amplifiers and systems for industrial application was de-
signed as a technical “how-to” manual and reference work
for buyers of commercial sound components. It shows how
to evaluate amplifiers and how to design and use a com-
mercial sound system, points out the pitfalls of loosely de-
fined specifications, fully details the features a prospective
buyer should insist on before he chooses a PA amplifier, and
discusses the importance of certified power output ratings to
assure optimum speaker performance, frequency response,
and how to evaluate the true response rating of an amplifier.
It also discusses the considerations that determine an am-
plifier’s flexibility—its ability to “grow” with the user’s re-
quirements. The catalogue contains a sound-system design
chart. to help determine the audio power required for typical
applications such as in auditoriums. For your cOpy of
Sound, write to Harmon-Kardon, Inc., 55 Ames Court,
Plainview, New York.

0 Skidproofing. A new non-slip floor enamel comes in seven
attractive colors and may be applied with a hrush, roller, or
spray gun. It provides perfect adhesion to wood, metal. tile,
concrete, mosaic, and masonry. May be used on damp or
continually wct surfaces, where acid, alkali, or chemical
exposures exist, on uncured concrete, exposure to salt water,
steam, et cetera. Its manufacturer claims it to he the tough-
est and most durable coating ever formulated, outwearing
conventional floor paints eight to one. Completc information
may be obtained by writing to Albert W. Pendergast, Safety
Equipment Company, Tulip and Longshore Strects, Phila-

delphia 35.

0 Solid bond. An all-purpose Epoxy adhesivc, long used by
industry for applications ranging from maintenance to mis-
siles, is now available in two additional formulations . . .
aluminum-filled and iron-filled. All three th'HWelds offer
50/50 measuring. controllable curing (from fivc minutes
to five hoursl, positive mixing through color change and a
complete range of sizes (from 1%: ounces) to fit every ap-
plication. The two new formulations are designed for metal
to metal bonding, but are equally effective when used to
bond glass to glass, metal to wood, wood to wood, plastic
laminate to fiberglass, et cetera. Samples of all three types——
all-purpose, aluminum-filled, and iron-filled—are available
upon request from FyhrClas Industries, 3010 West Montrose
Avenue, Chicago 18. -

o On cue. New fiberglass pool cues, in a variety of harmon-
izing colors, represent a breakthrough in the manufacture of
pool and billiard cues. The woven fiberglass fabric, impreg-
nated with phenolic resins and high-melting clastomers.
cured and compressed under heat and pressure on a tapered
stcel mandrel, produces an improved, perfectly balanced cue
that will remain straight and true forever. The hollow center
is filled with micro-cell urethane foam for increased impact
resistance. In this same process, the balancing weights are
foamed into position within the cue’s middle and butt hous-
ing. The cue also utilizes a replaceable screw-on tip. The
manufacturer maintains that the new cue cannot splintcr,
warp, or rot, is impervious to moisture and temperature. It
comes in a variety of colors: pastel blue, dark blue, forest
green, black, tangerine, and others. For further informa-
tion write to Donald A. Adler, St. Croix Corporation, Park

Falls, Wisconsin. (The St. Croix Corporation is one of the
largest manufacturers of tubular fiberglass fishing rods in
the world. Major products of the company include rods,
nets, jointed bamboo poles, gaff hooks, line and reels.)

0 Be seated! A new telescoping chair riser, operating on
the same principle as the telescoping gym seat, is heavy-
duty welded-steel construction and available in sections from
two to twenty-five rows high. The entire assembly extends
only four feet when nested. Sections can be permanently
attached to the wall or can be portable for removal and stor-
age after use. The chairs, whether attached or unattached,
can be folded in place and stored on the nested platform,
saving both space and time. In addition to providing safe
seating for auditoriums, arenas, gymnasiums, et cetera, the
new unit can also be used as orchestra and choral risers.

 

For further information writc to Safway Steel Products.

lnc.. 6228 West State Street, Milwaukce, Wisconsin.

0 No cracks, please! A urethane-foam joint filler, dcsigned
to fill expansion joints required in concrete construction, is
a versatile water-resistant product which fulfills a variety of
stringent requiremcnts as an expansion joint filler. Expan-
sion joints are used in concrctc highway pavemcnts, airports,
sidewalks, curbs, industrial flooring, retaining walls, and
wherever concrete mects other concrete or any hard sub-
stance. This new joint filler is dcsigncd to mcet specifica-
tions of AASHO M-153 Typc Ill and Federal Specification
HH-F-Btll-Type I, Class B. It currcntly has been approved
for usc in Minnesota, Ncbraska, Kansas, Missouri, North
Dakota, Indiana, Ohio, Virginia, and North Carolina. Ap-
proval is pcnding in other states, and it also has been ap-
proved for use by the U.S. Corps of Engineers.

A variety of thicknesscs is available ranging from a quar-
ter-inch to an inch in widths that vary from four to twcnty-
four inchcs. The matcrial is made in five- and tcn-foot lengths
with lengths up to sixteen feet availablc. Among the advan-
tages of the new Iightwcight product are its ability to bond
to concrete: cxcellent compression recovery ranging from
seventy-five to nincty percent of original thickness and a
flexibility which enables it to be formed between curved or
irregular surfaces. In addition, it is compatible with the ncw
polysulfide sealers coming into widc usc in conjunction with
joint fillers; as such, it does not require protective stripping.
It also will not spall adjacent concrete if small pcbbles or
other incompressible material fall into the joint. As it has
a closed cell structure, the filler retains its waterproof prop-
erties even after repeated stressing. It can he cut and shapcd
with conventional tools. For information, write to Barrett

Building Products Division, Allied Chemical Corporation,
40 Rector Street, New York 6. v

For further information, please write directly to source given and mention RECREATION Magazine.

430

RECREATION

RESOURCE GUIDE

 

 

  a ‘  -‘   

   

INDEX TO ADVERTISERS

 

 

Page
AAHPER _-._-_.__---..._......______...__.___ 435
American locker _.___.-...._...._____.___.._. 395
American Playground Device __-___.....__._. 429
Anderson Manufacturing __..._.__.--_______ 4l6
Brunswick Sports ....-..._--..._-_...-__.._... 393
Classified Advertising _____-__..__.l_..__.._. 436
Electro-Moch ______________ -_._..._. 396
Fun in the Sun of Florida -_.._. inside Front Cover
Handweaver a Craftsman ,___--_.._-..__-___ 431
Honda Associates _______ -________ 429
Kwikbilt ...w..--....-....-..».........-.............. 433
Monroe Company .... ._..._.._____. 396
Par-Buster -_-___...-_--._._....._..._..--.-----._.-.... 433
Recreation Magazine Binders __........__.._. 4l6
Tandy Leather ____--_-._-_.____-________-__-- 427
Trophy World _...._-____-_..____-._-._._ 433
United Fund __-._._--___.______._”-__ Back Cover
U.S. Special Services WWWWW _..._..._. 435

 

Handweaver
8- raftsman

    

The quarterly magazine with new
weaving ideas in each issue

Write for brachure

listing previous issues at special interest
tar weaving classes in recreation proiecls.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

1 yr. ----.---.--..-..$5 2 yrs ..---.--.--..-.. $9
3 yrs ............. --.$'l2

Pan-American 81 Foreign rates 81 a year
extra. Single copies $1.35

Handweaver & Craftsman
246 FIFTH AVENUE NEW YORK 1

NOVEMBER, 1963

 AIDS—Please Write Directly To Sources Given

ARTS AND CRAFTS

BONDED STOCK. A new art material which
enables the artist to actually paint into its
surface is neither a paper nor cloth but a
combination of bonded textile fibers that
allows color to penetrate giving a prism-like
effect to the artist’s work when working with
watercolors and inks. The fabric encourages
vertical absorption of painting media giving
subtle, optical colors-in-depth. The new “3111"
Brand Art Fabric #8400 can be used with
tran5parent and Opaque watercolors, design-
ers’ colors, acrylics, tempera, gouache, casein,
India and colored inks, felt-tipped pens and
textile colors. It also can be used for etching,
silk screen, woodcuts, linoleum block print-
ing, and lithographs.

The material comes ready to paint, needs
no preliminary mounting or stretching. Any
minor wrinkles or accidental folds or creases
can be smoothed out by pressing the fabric
with a warm iron after the painting is com
pletely dry. Art fabric has a high-tear strength
and can be folded many more times than paper
without damage. The material is made in two
sizes, 15"-by-l9" and 19”-by-231;é" in light
and medium weights in a four-sheet introduc-
tory offer and ten-sheet packets. It can be
obtained in l9”-by-23‘;é" and 30"-by-40"
sizes in light, medium, and heavy weights in
fifty-sheet bundles. For additional informa-
tion and a sample of the fabric write Art
Fabric, Dept. B-3-220, 3M Co., 2501 Hudson
Road., St. Paul 19, Minnesota.

PAPER WITH PERSONALITY. Construction paper,
in rolls twenty yards long, is available in
sixteen different colors for murals and friezes,
paper-sculpture projects, block printing, and
for booklets and program covers. These rolls
can be cut to desired size for any work with-
out waste. Totem construction and poster
paper, in standard sizes ranging from 9”-hy-
12" to jumbo 24"-by-36" sheets, is available
in a kaleidosc0pio range of thirty-two colors,
including a apatter rainbow effect, and is co-
ordinated to insure harmonious results when
combining the heavy and lightweight sheets.
Construction paper can be ordered in packs
of fifty and a hundred sheets, poster paper in
packs of a hundred sheets, either in one color
or a standard assortment. For samples or the
name of your nearest distributor, write to the
Anchor Converting Company, 2542 West
Ogden Avenue, Chicago 8, Illinois.

TOUCHUPS. To meet the need of the four
million Polaroid Land camera owners who
will soon he snapping color prints, a new kit
of liquid colors for retouching, spotting, and
correcting Polacolor prints is now available.
These special colors can also be used on
Ektacoler prints, Printons, Kodachromes,
tranSparencies, lantern slides, film, and nearly
all glossy and matte surfaces. They can be
applied with a brush, pen, cotton swab, or
an airbrush. They are carefully produced
under quality control and prepared with per-

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

manent dyes dissolved in a special filtered
aqueous base. An informative brochure which
includes other retouch colors available can
be obtained by writing to the John C.
Marshall Manufacturing Company, 167 North
Ninth Street, Dept. R. T., Brooklyn 11, New
York.

STEADY as YOU PAINT. Designed to make
even a lightweight sketching easel a more
rigid and sturdier unit, the Berkshire Stabi-
lizer-Sketch Box Rest consists of two sections.
One part is clamped across the two front
legs, while the other is clamped to the rear
leg of any standard tripod easel. The rear
section hooks into the front brace, making
the easel remarkany stable. In addition to
stabilizing the easel, the Berkshire Rest can
support a large oil sketch box. Assemth or
disassembly requires no tools and is accom-
plished in a minute with only wing nuts and

screws. For further information, write to
Anco Wood Specialties, Inc., 71-08 80th
Street, Glendale 2?, New York.

SHINY SUCCESS. Decorative foils in a wide
range of colors, patterns, and sizes can be
easily cut and shaped to any desired size or
form for holiday ornaments, gift wrappings,
mobiles, and creative designs. EXpanded
aluminum foil is machine slit and expanded
into a mesh for special effects (fish scales,
spider webs, et cetera). Write for samples to
Research Products Corporation, Madison 1,
Wisconsin.

to

BUBBLE TREES grow from crystals that “pep
when placed in hot water. Craft house also
offers plastic mold for casting a horse, a mer-
maid, even Red Riding Hood and the wolf;
shells for decorating almost everything; and
hundreds of other ideas and materials. For
abundantly illustrated catalogue, write to
Hazel Pearson Handicrafts, Box 193, Temple
City, California.

EQUIPMENT

ATHLETICS AND MEAsUREMENT go hand-in-hand
and a Wheel-N-Measure Meter is a vital help.
The measurement is in feet, anything up to
99,999 feet. Useful anywhere around the ath-
letic field with special emphasis on track and
field for measuring the track staggers. Also
excellent for securing accurate measurement
of a cross-country course. By actual tests one
man with a Wheel-N-Measure Meter will
measure a field faster and more accurately
than two men using tape. For further infor-

mation write to B. C. Reilly Company, P.0.
Box 231, North Scituate, Rhode Island.

LAWN MANAGEMENT. A new sprayer solves
the problem of weed control on large areas
of fine turf where heavy motorized sprayers
cannot be used. It can be used also for spray-
ing insecticides, liquid fertilizers, et cetera.
Hand propelled, the lightweight sprayer can

43 l

spray thousands of square yards in a few
hours. It is light enough to be pushed on fine
turf, yet has the capacity for acreage Spraying.
The new Sprayer fills the gap between hand-
operated sprayers and tractor sprayers. Bal-
anced on a one-wheel aluminum frame, the
sprayer operates from compressed air carried
in stainless steel tanks. There is no compres-
sor to carry, no moving parts to wear. Quick-
connect fittings permit rapid filling from any
compressor unit, service station, et cetera.
Handgrip levers at the handle bars provide
automatic control of spray and air. The bal-
ance and structure of the Sprayer makes it
usable on the roughest terrain as well as fine
turf. The new sprayer was developed origi-
nally by the Farm Crops Department of
Oregon State University for plot spraying.
For further information write to the Mater
Machine Works, P.0. Box 410, Corvallis,

Oregon.

PROGRAM AIDS

Ann snowmausmp to your bulletins and dis-
plays with multi-color “idea” letterheads to
spark your programs, special events, fund-
raising carnpaigns, house organs and other
announcements. Catalogue shows samples in
full color of idea art with such catch lines
as “Get Set for a Bang-Up Event" and “Let’s
Celebrate.” Many of the letterhead ideas are
also available on jumbo postcards and “whiz”
cards. For catalogue, write to Idca Art, 30

East 10th Street, New York 3.

FILMS

Lasrmc PATTERNS. A new series of golf
instruction films—combining for the first time
the teaching skills of leading golf profession-
als and physical education consultants—has
been released by the National Golf Founda-
tion. Included is a complete golf-instruction
program in four full-color 16MM motion pic-
tures with sound. More than fifteen years of
research and many months of concentrated
study were spent in selecting the most effective
teaching methods and motion picture tech-
niques. The result is a skillfully produced
golf-instruction series which develops interest
quickly and produces long-lasting patterns of
learning.

The four-unit, 16MM motion picture series
in full color with sound, takes advantage of
many movie techniques to explain difficult
and often misunderstood golf movements in
slow motion, full stop, and superimposed ani-
mation. The series includes:

Unit I, a thirteen-minute film that expertly
motivates the student to want to play, shows
him how to learn, and helps him understand
the golf course, the game, and equipment.
Unit 2, a twenty-seven-minute, three-reel movie
which shows how the swing is developed. The
student starts with the whole swing and then
is taught each control factor separatcly—in-
cluding grip, address, posture, rhythm, bal-
ance, et cetera, until he has learned the entire
swing correctly.

Unit 3, a twelve-minute film which demon-
strates the fundamentals of pitch shots and
explosion shots out of sand traps. Careful
attention is given to the important differences
in the arm and wrist action of each of these
approach shots.

Unit 4, a ten-minute reel which describes

 

43?.

several approved techniques including wrist
and firm wrist swings and tap and stroke
methods of applying momentum to the ball.
The film also diagrams how to play uneven

greens.
The series may be purchased or rented.

Purchase rates for Units One, Three, and F our
are $65.00 each; and for Unit Two, $135.00.
Rental rates and rental-purchase plan details
may be secured by writing the National Golf
Foundation, 804 Merchandise Mart, Chicago
54.

1.0815 OF THE DEEP. Boating club program di-
rectors and entertainment chairmen, who are
planning late fall and winter club activities,
should get acquainted with the Water World
film series sponsored by the National Associa-
tion of Engine and Boat Manufacturers. The
films are all 1651M, sound, and color produc-
tions, available on free loan from NAEBM.
Water World films cover cruising, fishing, va-
cationing afloat, boating education, outboard-
ing, and water skiing. A complete description
of each is published in NAEBM’s catalogue
of boating films.

The free catalogue lists 364 boating films,
most of which are available on free loan from
various sources for group or TV showings.
Most of the films have sound and are in color.

°‘ Fall
Harvest

’ a

Dig into back issues of RECREATION and
pick a peck of ripe ideas. Every article is
new until you have read it! Increase your
resource material by ordering these fall
issues while they are still available and at

BARGAIN PRICES.

[:1 November 1962 No. of copies

The Church and Recreation
Discovering Primitive Artists
Human Values of Recreation
A Commnnily Calendar

[:1 October 1962 No. of copies

After School Arts and Sciences
Puppetry and Children
Five-Alarm Arts and Crafts
Scenery hy Projection

[:1 November 1960 No. of copies

The Youngsters Take the Stage
Teenage Motives

Nn Recreation Director Is an Island
Christmas Craft-O-Rama

Extending Your Service

[I] October 1958 No. of copies

What Do You Know About Modern Dance?
Public Relations and Halloween

Recreation Activities from Other Lands
Community Halloween at Low Cost

 

 

 

 

Single copies ............................ .- $ .50
Five or more, each .................... -- $ .30

Order from

HAIIOHAL RECREAIION ASSOEIMION
a w. am Street, New York, N. v. 10011

Films listed in the catalogue cover a great
variety of subjects, including fishing, boating
education, cruising, boat handling, navigation,
safety, boat maintenance, sailing, power boat-
ing, water skiing, racing, weather lore, r0pe
work, marine engines, adventure trips, and
hull design, among others. NAEBM advises
that bookings for the ten films in its Water
World series, as well as films from other
sources, should be made eight to ten weeks

in advance of showing. The catalogue is
available by writing to NAEBM, 420 Lexing-
ton Avenue, New York, N. Y. 10017.

FIFTY MILES AND NO BLISTERS. A new four-
and-a-half-minute film, Swim and Stay Fit,
has been released by the American Red Cross
to promote participation in its fifty-mile swim
program. This short, sound film has been
cleared for television and is available in both
color and black and white. Fcaturing the
Red Cross “Swim and Stay Fit” project, in-
augurated in September 1961, the film shows
persons, ranging in age from four to eighty,
swimming for recreation and improved health.
Under the program, participants are askcd to
swim a minimum of fifty miles in segments of
440 yards, keeping records of their achieve-
ments on wall charts posted at swimming
facilities and on wallet-size individual fac-
similies. While many persons have already
swum fifty miles and hundreds are now well
into their second fifty, there is no time limit
to reach the fifty-mile goal. Certificates are
awarded to participants for every ten miles
they complete, and an emblem is awarded at
the end of fifty miles.

The film features Charles B. (Bud) Wilkin-
son, special consultant to President Kennedy
on physical fitness and University of Okla-
homa football coach. He endorses the Red
Cross project, recommending swimming as a
means to better health. The motion picture’s
production costs were financcd as a public
service by the Sun Life Assurance Company
of Canada.

TV stations, local clubs, schools, and organi-
zations interested in booking loan prints of
the film should get in touch with their local
Red Cross chapters or one of the following
Red Cross area offices: Eastern Area, 615
North St. Asaph Street, Alexandria, Virginia;
Southeastern Area, 1955 Monroe Drive, N.E.,
Atlanta, Georgia: Midwestern Area, 4050 Lin-
dell Boulevard, St. Louis; and Western Area,
1550 Sutter Street, San Francisco.

HOT NEWS. A new free-loan lilmstrip on fire
extinguishing systems entitled On Guard
discusses the two types of high-pressure
carbon-dioxide fire-extinguishing systems and
how they are designed to detect, isolate, and
extinguish fires at the first flick of a flame.
The filmstrip, in full color with a fifteen-
minute rccording, is available for use on
automatic or manual 35MM strip film sound
projectors or manual silent projector. Quanti-
ties of a booklet giving a frame-by-frame ex-
planation of the filmstrip are also available
for distribution to the audience at the end
of the showing. The film can be obtained
from Walter Kidde and Company regional
ofiices in Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Dallas,
Detroit, Los Angeles, New York, and Phila-
delphia, or from the Industrial and Marine
Division of Walter Kidde & Company, Belle-
ville, New Jersey.

RECREATION

PERSONNEL

 

NOT KEEPING PACE

H. DOUGLAS SESSOMS

r 111:: National

Recreation As-
sociation has peri-
odically surveyed
the recreation pro-
gram conducted by
the major colleges
and universities
throughout the na-
tion. It has been particularly interested
in the number of students enrolled with
a major in recreation and the numher
who graduate with recrcation degrees.
From these surveys it has prepared up-
to-date listings of colleges offering a
professional rccreation education pro-
gram. Similar surveys and lists have
been compiled by other service and pro-
fessional groups. These multiple list-
ings and reports have in some instances
resulted in confusion as to the current
status of recreation education.

Three years ago the professional ed-
ncation section of the American Rec-
reation Society conducted its first can-
vas of the recreation education pro-
grams. According to its findings, sixty-
two schools were offering a recreation
degree and had a total enrollment of
2,673 majors. lt also reported that
these institutions employed 136 faculty
mcmbers to instruct recreation courses
and that over one-half of these instruc-
tors held ranks of associate or full pro-
fessor. This is believed to be the first
major study conducted by a profession-
al recreation society of its academic
segment. ’

In order to eliminate some of the con-
fusion which exists concerning the
status of recreation education; that is,
who oflers a program and how many
students are recreation majors, the Na-
tional Recreation Association and the
American Recreation Society decided

 

last September to conduct this year’s
survey jointly and to develop a uniform
list of instructions that have a recrea-
tion education program. With one ex-
ception every institution queried re-
plied to its questionnaire. Sixty-five
reported offering a major; the one not
responding was known to have a major
and was included in the final listing.
These sixty-five schools reported having
2,834 recreation majors, 758 of which
were to graduate during 1963.

The eighteen schools in the Mid-
West region reported the highest num-
her of majors, 658 undergraduates and
168 graduates. The far Southwest with
fourteen institutions and the Southeast
with twelve schools ranked second and
third respectively in the number of ma-
jors. The Southeast region reported a
total of 518 undergraduates with thirty-
seven graduates. The far Southwest
had fourteen less undergraduates than
the South but reported 148 graduate

students.
When questioned as to the number

and rank of faculty members who teach
at least six hours of recreation courses
per semester, the institutions reported a
slight increase (less than one percent)
in faculty size over the 1961 findings.
The average faculty contains 2.5 pro-
fessors. of which f orty-seven percent had
degrees beyond the master’s level and
ninety-five have senior staff rank (as-
sociate or full professorshipsl. Sixty-
seven of the 165 recreation faculty
members did their major study in rec-
reation when earning their highest
graduate degree.

0f the sixty-five schools responding,
fifty-five were public institutions. Six-
ty-three of them stated their program
Was either a department, division, or
cUrriculum; thirty-two of these were

NUMBER OF RECREATION MAJORS AND STUDENTS GRADUATING IN RECREATION
DURING 1963 BY GEOGRAPHIC REGION

BACHELOR

Total Males Females
Cand. Grad. Grad.

191 ' 23 20

I63 20 16
Southeast 12 518 81 51
East Central 18 658 58
West Central 1 25 4 2
South Central 5 45 5 1
Northwest 5 209 19 11
Southwest 14 504 67 47

"—ij—"r 213

TOTALS 65 2319 330

Region Majors

_...- -—-—-—-——_—.

Northeast 5
Mid-Atlantic 5

NOVEMBER, 1963

Total
Cand.

MASTER’S DOCTORATE

Females
Grad.

Mates
Grad.

Tota!
Cand.

Males Females
Grad. Grad.

6 I I
98 26 29
37 10 10
147 69 20

5 O

I l

6
129

429 l—

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

'within the general structure of physical
education. Seventeen were in the col-
lege of arts and sciences or an inter-
departmental program; seventecn were
within schools or departments of edu-
cation.

Considering the increasing enroll-
ment of college studcnts throughout the
nation, the increase in recreation educa-
tion is not significant. In fact, there are
fewer recreation majors in proportion
to the total college enrollment today
than there were in 1961. Twenty-three
of the sixty-three schools reporting
undergraduate majors had less than
fifteen students enrolled in the program.
One institution reported only two ma-
jors. The largest enrollment was 137
majors. Twelve of the thirty-three grad-
uate schools had less than five candi-
dates. Five, on the other hand, had
thirty-one or more students pursuing
advanced degrees. The trend would
suggest a possible consolidation of
graduate education in selected institu-
tions.

In summary, it appcars that recrea-
tion education is not keeping pace with
the rapid advances in leisure and the
demand for leisure specialists. Of the
undergraduates currently majoring in
recreation, over 65 percent were juniors
or graduating seniors. Unless there is
an increase in next year’s lower college
classes, the recreation picture will be
even more discouraging. The need for
an active recruitment program at the
undergraduate level is apparent. it:

DR. SESSOMS is chairman of thc recrea-
tion curriculum at the University of
North Carolina and chairman of the Na-
tional Recreation Association’s Under-
graduate Education Subconimittee o]
the National Advisory Committee on. the
Recruitment, Training and Placement of
Recrcation Personnel.

 

Professional GOLF NETS

and training cages with patented
adjustable target with settings 
far each club. 4 madels pius ~"i.’7‘-'.':'13::.

R.“ "o !

  
 
      
       
    

cages. Campact, light- indaar- 'lgizigi;.’;:5
'P‘.‘qoa’
Outdoor. $39.50 up. ’--.--.

FREE catalog. PA R -BUSTE R
one-A eost 26th Pl. Tulsa, Okla.

R%S%YWORLD. Inc.

 LOW FACTORY-DIRECT PRICES

' EOTMPHIES
','~>uPLl UES

 

 
 

 
    

5ALESI’EOPLE WANTED TO
SEll. OUR TROPHIES WHOCE'

' ., é SALE mvoun cm. roam-
:  ronumon wens ATTEN-
--  non PRESIDENT. ' - '

. Dept: R68 1918 mitt!!!“ Iialeah, Florida 3310

 

 
  

 

KWlK-BILT, lNé.-Bx 6834, Dallas 19, Tex.

433

755W PUBLICATIONS

 

Public Administration of Park and
Recreational Services, George Hielte
and Jay 5. Shivers. Macmillan Com-
pany, 60 Fifth Avenue, New York ll.

Pp. 357. $7.50.

“Basically, the book is an attempt to
approach the science and art of public
administration in the field of park prac-
tice and recreational service with logic
and sound data and to supply concepts
that will be of use to administrators
every day on the job.” It is also in-
tended “to provide in one volume a
text for use in universities offering pro-
fessional courses for the preparation of
public park and recreation executives.”

These objectives, quoted from the
preface, have been accomplished re-
markably well by the authors. Cer-
tainly, the college student who has stud-
ied this material will have an excellent
book knowledge of park and recreation
administration and it is highly probable
that when he becomes an executive he
will keep it handy and refer to it often.
To the more experienced executive, it
will be a source of constant help with
problems of administrative policies and
procedures. He will find authoritative
answers to the questions he must answer
as an administrator.

The book is extremely useful as a
reference. It covers all of the elements
of administration. Technical and legal
terms are always defined. ‘Vhen the
authors discuss diflerent types of ad-
ministrative settings or departmental
organization, they use charts to illus-
trate. The chapter on records, reports,
and filing procedures contains a large
number of sample forms. The chapter
on personnel management has a de-
tailed description of the requirements
and duties of positions ranging from
superintendent to custodian. Anyone
preparing or revising an administrative
manual will find this book an invaluable
guide.

The book is much more than a man-
ual of procedures or encyclopedia of
administrative subjects, howevcr. Prin-
ciples as well as practice are set forth.
The reader is never allowed to forget
that the purpose of a public recreation
agency is to provide recreational ser-
vices in the form of program and that
this determines the structure of the
agency. “The organization of recrea-
tional services refers to community re-
sources as well as agency estahlishment.
The process which directs and channels
such resources and structure is admin-
istration.” Here is a valuable contribu-
tion to the literature of the field.—

Arthur Todd, Director, National Rec-

reation Association Field Department.

434

Book of Magic, John Mulholland.
Charles Scribner's Sons, 597 Fifth Ave-
nue,r New York 17. Pp. 330, illustrated.
$6.50.

“Magic,” Mr. Mulholland says, “is
the pretended performance of those
things which cannot be done.” Any-
one who has watched him on stage or
in an informal group, will disagree. He
does those things that cannot be done—
and does them so divertingly, so charm-
ingly, that his audiences remember him
as much as they remember his tricks.

John Mulholland. the only magician
included in Who’s Who in America, is
that rare person—an entertainer who
can write as well as he can talk. “Magic
is superb entertainment for it combines
the challenge of a puzzle, the thrill of a
detective story, the amusement of a
comedy, and the charming fantasy of
a fairy tale . . . The hand is not quicker
than the eye, but the eyes see a great
many things of which the mind takes
no notice. Those details which pass un-
noticed are the extra ones that make the
trick possible.” His new book takes into
account that “magic really exists only
during its performance.” It does not
try to mystify, hut to point out details
which the eye can see but not pass
along to the mind.

The “magics” described in this book
are all possible to be learned hy ama-
tcurs and require no highly specialized
apparatus. Many are so-called casy
feats that stress laughter and surprise.
Some are especially useful to “the ex-
acting requirements of the reasoning
of childhood.” Some are based seem-
ineg on extra-sensory perception.
Whatever the tricks, and however they
are organized. their descriptions are
clear, with emphasis on the technique
of the performer. They are also very
readable. As in his other books, a great
performer has shared his secrets good-
naturedly——and by doing so, has made
them ever more interesting—V. M.

IN BRIEF

CREATIVE CLAY DESIGN, Ernst Rottger.
Reinhold Publishing Corporation, 430
Park Avenue, New York 22. Pp. 95, il-
lustrated. $4.95. This is a book in a
series of crafts by this author. While
the photographs are very interesting,
there’s not much new material that has
not already been covered in other
books, but it is another good reference
book for teachers and recreation lead-
ers as it covers the craft well.—M. B.
Cummings.

JONGLEUR SONGS OF OLD QUEBEC, Mar-
ius Barbeau. Rutgers University Press,
New Brunswick, New Jersey. Pp. 202.
$7.50. A jongleur is a strolling per-
former of the Middle Ages whose reper-
toire included juggling, acrobatics,sing—
ing, and playing instruments. Marius
Barbeau’s collection consists of forty-
two folksongs with commentary repre-
senting extensive research. Excellent
English translations are provided for
the French texts. The famous “Alou-
ette” and “Where Are You Going Little
Boy?” are included. Most of the songs
have to do with love and marriage, some
are laments, others are humorous. All
are easily singable and enjoyable songs,
which are still sung, mostly in the pro-
vince of Quebec but are also well known
to emigrant French Canadiens through-
out New England, Northern Michigan,
and Louisiana.

NELSON’S ENCYCLOPEDIA OF CAMPING,
E. C. Janes. Thomas Nelson and Sons,
18 East 41st Street, New York 17. Pp.
682. $7.50. An alphabetically arranged
series of articles on tepics related to
camping and the out-of-doors, starting
with “A” for American Camping Asso-
ciation, angling, animals, et cetera, to
vandalism, weather, winter camping,
and, finally, YMCA. Since no one topic
can he covered in detail, such a collec-
tion’s main value will he to stimulate
interest, givc broad outlines, and en-
courage further study on the part of
the reader. A listing of national and
state parks, with information as to lo-
cation and special facilities (boats,
caves, fishing, mountain climhing, pack
trips, riding, swimming, and trails) is
a valuable section (we wish it had also
included information about camping
facilities).

THE AMERICAN MUSICAL STAGE BEFORE
1800, Julian Mates. Rutgers University
Press, New Brunswick, New Jersey. Pp.
331. $6.00. The quantity and variety
of musical theater recorded in this his-
tory is little short of amazing. Musical
theater of today, the star system, the
circus, the spectaculars, variety shows
mixed together in every possible way
are traceable to similar theatrical go-
ings-on in the American musical stage
before 1800. There is no show business
quite like the exciting, rough-and-
tulnble show business of colonial times.
Serious music theater performances im-
ported from Europe were also the fore-
runners of our great performances to-
day. Recreation leaders looking for
new ideas will find them in this record
of the American Musical Stage Before

1 800.

RECREATION

NOVEMBER, 1963

Three Instructional Guides
For Your Sports library

Qualified recreation leaders and
interested parents alike will ben-
efit from these manuals prepared
by experts to teach the novice.
Much of the content has re-
sulted from problem-solving ex-
periences in AAHPER Outdoor
Education Workshops. All three
books are beautifully designed
with diagrams, charts, and car-
toons. All are a matching 8% x
11 inches.

Shooting and Hunting
96 pp. $2.00
Makes it easy to teach others
to enjoy the art of shooting.
Explains in detail how to
handle a gun safely, with
helpful suggestions on equip-
ment and other teaching
tools.

Marksmanship for Young
Shooters 24 pp. $1.00

Especially prepared to show
how the teaching of the
spring-type air riiie can be
incorporated into school,
community, and agency rec-
reation programs.

Casting and Angling 52 pp. $2.00

Covers equipment and
techniques for iiy-casting,
spinning, spincasting, surf
casting, and surf spinning.
Includes a games section, of-
iicial rules for casting events,
book, and film references.

AAHPER Standing Order Plan

Enroll now in the AAHPER
Standing Order Plan, a simple
method by which recreation lead-
ers and teachers, agencies and
groups, may receive all AAHPER
publications as they come OK the
press. Each new publication is
mailed automatically without re-
quest or notice. Cost varies from
year to year according to pub-
lications. A typical annual cost
is $30 to $35. Enroll any time-—
the first publication after the
date of enrollment is the first one
to be sent. Write for further in-
formation and publications list.

American Association for Health,
Physical Education,
and Recreation
1201 Sixteenth Street, N.W.,
Washington, D.C., 20036

 

BOOKS 8. PAMPHLETS RECEIVED

DANCE, DRAMA, MUSIC

Action Songs and Rhythms for Children, Lais Lunt
Metz_. T. 5. Denison, 321 5th Ave. 5., Minne-
apalis 15. Pp. 110. $4.95.

America's Greatest Hit Songs, Lyle Kenyan Engel,
Editor. Grasset Cr Dunlap 1107 Broadway, New
York 10. Pp. 191. $6.9 .

Bollad Mongers, The (modern folk sang), Oscor
Brand. Funk Cr Wognalls, 360 Lexington Ave.,
New Y0rk 17. Pp. 240. $4.50.

Ballroom Dancing, Mourice Jay. Sportshelf P.O.
Bax 634 New Rachelle, N.Y. Pp. 112. $1.50.

Beer Bust ongbook, The (Or Pictures to Look at
Whlle Others Are Singing), Frank Lynn. Fearan
Publ., B28 Valencia St., San Francisco 10. Pp.
64. Paper, $1.25.

Big Puppet Mix-Up, The, Henny Wenkart. Henny
Wenkart 4 Shady Hill Sq., Cambridge 33, Mass.
Pp. 24. Paper, $.B5.

Broodside Ballod, The, Leslie Shepard. Folklare
Associates 12 Meetinghouse Rd., Hatbora, Pa.
Pp. 205. $7.50.

Chord Dictionary, Kenneth Lisban. Kenyon Pub.,
éIB4510Broadway, New York 23. Pp. 41. Paper,

Complete Book of Light Opera, The, Mark Lub—
back. Appleton-Century-Crofts, 34 W. 33rd
St., New York 1. Pp. 913. $12.95.

Crowell's Handbook of Gilbert and Sullivan. Thas.
Crowell, 432 Park Ave. 5., New York 16. Pp.
264. $4.95.

Dance in Elementary Education: A Program for
Bays and Girls (2nd ed.) Ruth Lavell Murray.
Harper ond Raw, 49 E. 33rd St., New York 16.
Pp. 451. $6.90.

Dromo Reader, The, 5. Perry Cangdon, 11. Odyssey

Press, 55 5th Ave., New York 3. Pp. 418. $3.00.

Drums, Rattles, ond Bells, Larry Kettelkamp. Wm.
Marraw, 425 Park Ave. 5., New York 16. Pp.
47. $2.75.

Flutes, Whistles, and Reeds, Larry Kettelkamp.
Wm. Marraw, 425 Park Ave. 5., New York 16.
Pp. 48. $2.75.

Folk Music USA, Haward Grofman and B. T. Man-
nin . Citadel Press, 222 Park Ave. 5., New
Yar 3. Pp. 144. Paper, $2.25.

Folk Songs of Old New England, Eloise Hubbard
Linscatt, Editar. Shae String Press, 965 Dix-
well Ave., Hamden 14, Conn. Pp. 344. $7.00.

Gift To Be Simple, The (songs, dances, and rituals
of the Shakers), Edward D. Andrews. Daver
Publ., iBO Vorick St., New York 14. Pp. 170.
Paper, $1.50.

Golden Treasury of Best Songs and Lyrical Poems,
Oscor Williams, Editor. New American Library,
501 Madison Ave., New York 22. Pp. 564.
Paper, 5.95.

High School Band Director‘s Handbook, W. Clyde
Duvall. Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, N.J.
Pp. 209. $6.00.

History of Popular Music, Dovid Ewen. Barnes Er
Noble, 105 5th Ave., New York 3. Pp. 229.
Paper, $1.50.

History of Modern Music, A, Paul Callaer. World
gublb, 2231 W. 110th St., Cleveland 2. Pp. 413.

7.5 .

Humorous Monologues for Teenagers, Rabert Fan-
taine. Plays, lnc., 8 Arlington St., Boston 16.
Pp. 127. $3.95.

Improving the School String Section, Trumon Hut-
tan. Carl Fischer, 62 C00per 5a., New York 3.
Pp. B2. $3.00.

Improvisation tor the Theater: A Handbook of
Teaching and Directing Techniques, Viala Spa—
lin. Northwestern University Press, 1840 Sheri-
dan Rd., Evanston, Ill. Pp. 399. $6.95.

.longleur Songs of Old Quebec, Marius Barbeau.
Rutgers Univ. Press, New Brunswick, NJ. Pp.
202. $7.50.

Jump the Rope Jingles, Emmo V. Worstell. Mac—
millon Co., 60 5th Ave., New York 11. Pp. 55.
$2.75.

Kimo Mokes Music, Vivian L. Thompson. Golden
Gate Junior Books, San Carlos, Calif. Pp. 32.

2.75.

Leggth and Depth of Acting, Edwin Duerr. Holt,
Rinehart and Winston, 3B3 Madison Ave., New
York 17. Pp. 590. $10.00. .

Lollipop Songs, The, Rene G. Varlay. Halt, Rine-
hart and Winston, 3B3 Madison Avenue, New
York 17. Unpaged. $4.50. (33 1/3rpm recard
included.) _

Lullaby Book, The, Leslie Daiken. Dufour Edi-
tians Chester Springs, Pa. Pp. 64. $2.75.

Ewan MocCoIl, Peggy Seeger Songbook. Oak
Publ., 121 W. 47th St., New York. Pp. 96.
Paper, $1.95. _ .

Materials of Dance as a Creative Art Actrvrty,
Barbara Mettler. Mettler Studios 242 Newbury
St., Boston 16. Pp. 413. Spiralbound, $7.50.

Medievol Mystery Ploys, Morality Plays and In-
terludes, Vincent F. Happer ond Gerald B. La-
hey, Editars. Barron's Educational Series, 343
Greta Neck Rd., Great Neck, N. Y. Pp. 299.
Paper, $1.25 (hardbound, $2.50.)

Music A—Z, Jock Socher, Editor. Grosset Cr Dun-
lap, 1107 Broadway, New York 10. Pp. 432.
Paper, $2.50.

My Love Affair with Music, Lloyd Alexonder.
Thos. Y. Crawell, 432 Park Ave. 5., New York
16. Pp. 274. $3.95.

National Directory Square and Folk Dance CoIIers,

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 
  
 
 
    
 
   
 
  
   

Hi there, Mics Barron . . .
Welcome to Army
Special Services

 
 

ARMY SPECIAL SERVICES
CIVILIAN JOBS HAVE
MANY ADVANTAGES

 

0 International Travel
0 Living Overseas

0 New Friends

0 Career Development

Non-routine jobs that appeal
to the active girl with a flair
for working with people. If
you have the appropriate
background and experience
plus the imagination to plan
leisure hour activities for
others . . then a ‘civilian
career with Army Special Serv-
ices is right for you.

Professional jobs in the fields
of Recreation Leadership and
Librarianship are a open to
single girls, minimum age 21.
College degree or equivalent
in specialized experience are
basic requirements.

 
 
 

   
   
 
   

FOR INFORMATIONAL BROCHURE WRITE:

  

Special Services Recruitment
Seetion, IRCB
Department of The Arm

y
\Vashington 25, D. C. p (0-73)

 
 

   

 

435

Teachers and Leaders (1963), Fred Hanerkamp,
E‘J-i'r: \tzitl. Dr "cers Service, 5808 Lansdowne

2' . ’ Louis Pp. 128. Paper, $2.00..
Nee io-rz Book, The, Joachim Berendt. Hill Er
' ' i1 5th Ave. New York 10. Pp. 314.

line Act Dramas and Contest Plays, Lawrence M.
.“ W :s. T. S. Denison, 321 5th Ave. S., Minne—
. us 27. Pp. 319. $3.95. .
Revised Techniques of Ballroom Dancing, The
"th ed.i, Alex Moore. Spartshelf, P.O. Box
:34, New Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 112. Paper, $3.75.
Sailor’s Hornpipe, The, Stage Dance CounCIl.
Spartshelf, PO. Box 634, New Rochelle. Pp. 16.
Paper, $1.00. ' '
Sacial Dance, Beverly H. Yerringtan and TreSSie
A. Outland. National Press, 850 Hansen Way,
Pola Alto, Calif. Pp. 68. Spiralbound, $2.75.
Songs for a Small Guitar, AI Graham. Duell, Sloan
and Pearce, 124 E. 30th St., New York 16. Pp.

59. $2.50. 0 I '
Tackle Ballroom Dancing This Way, Leslie Collin-

san. Spartshelf, PO. Box 634, New Rochelle.

Pp. 118. $3.75. ' '
Teenage Comedies, W. F. Miksch. T. S. Deni50n,

321 5th Ave. S., Minneapolis 15. Pp. 409. $3.95.
Voices of Mass and Capital A, James Schevill.

Friendship Press, 475 Riverside Dr., New YOrk

27. Pp. 40. Paper, $.75. _
Wonderful New Book of Ballet, The, Edwina Haz-

ard Glen. Rand McNally, 405 Park Ave., New

York 22. Pp. 95. $2.95. _
World of Carnegie Hall, The, Richard Schickel.

Julian Messner, 8 W. 40th St., New York 16.

Pp. 438. $6.95.
World Tales for Creative Dramatics and Story-

telling, Burdette S. Fitzgerald. Prentice—Hall,
Englewood Cliffs. Pp. 332. $7.00.

STORYBOOKS

About Cowboys Around the World, Les Landin.
Melmont Publ., Jackson Blvd., Cr Racine Ave.,
Chicago 7. Pp'. 47. $2.50.

About Pioneers: Yesterday, Today, and Tomor-
row, Wilma and John Simpson. Melmont Publ.,
Jackson Blvd. C1 Racine Ave., Chicago 7. Pp.
63. $2.50.

Aeneid for Boys and Girls, The, retold by Alfred
J. Church. Macmillan, 60 5th Ave., New York
11. Pp. 172. $2.95.

American Indian os Farmer, The, Loverne Morris.
Melmont Publ., Jackson 8|vd. C1 Racine Ave.,
Chicago 7. Pp. 47. $2.50.

America's First Army, Burke Davis. Holt, Rine-
hart ond Winston, 383 Madison Ave., New
York 17. Unpaged. $3.00.

American Revolution, The, Felix Sutton. Grosset
Cr Dunlap, 1107 Broadway, New York 10. Pp.

48. $1.00.
W. W.

Angry Book, The, Robin King. Norton,

55 5th Ave., New Yark 3. Unpaged. $2.75
Apple Orchard,

Walck, 101

$3.00.

Irmengarde Eberle. Henry Z.
5th Ave., New York 3. Pp. 48.

 

At Home on the Ice, Patricia K. Miller and Iron
L. Seligman. Holt, Rinehart and Winston, 383
Madison Ave., New York 17. Unpaged. $1.95.

Bad Child's Book of Beasts, The, Hiloire Belloc.
Dover Publ., 180 Varick St., New York. Pp. 157.
Paper, $1.00.

Golden Zoo Book. Golden Press, 850 3rd Ave.,
New York. Unpaged. $1.49.

Gold Rush Adventures, Edith McCall. Childrens
Press, Jackson Blvd. C1 Racine Ave., Chicago 7.
Pp. 127. $2.50.

Good Night, Mr. Beetle, Leland B. Jacobs. Holt,
Rinehart and Winston, 383 Madison Ave., New
York 17. Unpaged. $1.95.

Great Circus Parade, The, Evelyn Malone Curro.
Holt, Rinehart and Winston, 383 Madison Ave.,
New York 17. Unpaged. $1.95.

Great Moments of Rescue, Ronald Clark. Ray
 30 E. 74th St., New York 21. Pp. 128.

Great Rebellion, The, Mary Stolz. Harper Bros.,
49 E. 33rd St., New York 16. Pp. 63. $2.50.

Griffin and the Minor Canon, The, Frank R. Stock-
ton. Holt, Rinehart and Winston, 383 Madison
Ave., New York 17. Pp. 56. $3.50.

Happy Birthday Present, The, Jaan Heilbroner.
Harper and Row, 49 E. 33rd St., New York 16.
Pp. 62. $1.95.

Here Comes Jimmy! Here Comes Jimmy's Dog,
Harry Randolph Wayne. Holt, Rinehart and
Winston, 383 Madison Ave., New York 17.
Unpaged. $1.95.

Old Wind and Liu Ll-Son, Aline Glasgow. Harvey
Eggse, Irvington-on-Hudsan, N.Y. Unpaged.

. 5.

Once on a Time, A. A. Milne. N.Y. Graph
ety, Greenwich, Conn. Pp. 242. $3.95.
Once Upon a Totem, Christie Harris. Atheneum
gigblis 162 E. 38th St., New York 16. Pp 148.

.5 I

Over the Mormon Trail, Helen Hinckley Jones.
Childrens Press, Jackson 8lvd. Er Racine Ave.,
Chicago 7. Pp. 126. $2.50. '

Parade Book, The, Ed Emberley. Little, Brown,
34 Beacon St., Boston 6. Pp. 28. $2.95.

Pixle Pie, Grace H. Gardner. William-Frederick
Press, 55 E. 86th St., New York 28. Pp. 163.

$3.75.
Playmate for Puno, A, Terry Shannon. Melmont

Publ., Jackson Blvd. Cr Racine Ave., Chicago 7.
Pp. 31. $2.50.

Puppy Pie, Jay Williams. CroweII-Collier, 640
5th Ave., New York 19. Unpaged. $1.95.
Reall Not Really, Lesley Frost. Channel Press,
ggégommunity Drive, Manhosset, N.Y. Pp. 61.
Robots and Electronic Brains, Robert Scharff.
Grossct Cr Dunlap, 1107 Broadway, New York

10. Pp. 48. $1.00.

Very Little Bay, The, Phyllis Krasilovsky. Double-
day, 575 Madison Ave., New York 22. Un—
paged. $1.95.

We lee in the City, Bert Ray. Childrens Press,
Jackson Blvd. Cr Racine Ave., Chicago 7. Un—

pOged. $2.50.

ic Soci-

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING

RATES: Wards in regular type $.15 each
Words in hotdface type $.25 each
Minimum ad accepted  $3.00

DEADLINES: Copy must be received by
the fifth at the month preceding date at
the issue in which ad is desired.

COPY: Type—or clearly print—yaur message and the address to which you wish
replies sent. Underline any words you want to appear in boldface type.

Send copy with remittance to:

RECREATION Classified Advertising, 8 West Eighth Street, New York 1], New York.

 

Graduate

llElJ’ \VANTED

Dircelor of Parks and
Recreation: Over 77,000
acres of parks in magnifi-
ccnt Pacific Northwest in-
clude camping, fishing,

recreational
specialisl will! large geri-
alric institution.
View. contact Mr. A. Podcll,
Administrator.
llelirew Home and Hospi-

TION Magazine, 8 West 8111
51 reel. New York 100]].

For inter-
'l licrapists lor California

Stale llospilals. Opportu-
nity to plan and conduct

Brooklyn

boating, .n19rinast hiking tal. 813 Howard Avenue. individual patient recrea-
trails! p10“? areas, Etc: Brooklyn, Y, lion as Wt‘ll as special
Plan and, Elite“ Program group activities; niodcrn
for acquisition, (levelop- Saksmml. Largest mam]. equipmem and facilities

ment, and improvement of
park system; maintain a
consulting recreation serv-
ice for cities and counties;
review new Youth Con-
servation Development
Corps program. $12,000 a
year, licadquartcrs in beau-
tiful Olympia. Contact De-
partment of Personnel, 110
General Administration
Building, Olympia, Wash-

ington.

436

facturer and distributor of
arts and crafts materials in
the East is looking for part-
linie salesmen for Southern.
Midwestern, a n d W e s t
Coast slales to call on rec-
reation facilities and
camps. Commission basis.
Selected territories are
available. Must have ex-
perience. Please scnd de-

tails to Box N63, RECREA-

The publisher assumes no responsibiIi'ty for services ar items advertised here.

available. Positions open to
coiiege graduates with ma-
jor in recreation or recrea-
tion therapy, which inciuri-
ed supervised fieid work.
No experience required.
Starting salary $463.00 per
month; liberal employee
benelils. Write State Per-
sonnel Board, 801 Capitol
Avenue, Sacramento, Cali-
iornia.

 

What Did I See?, William Jay Smith. Crowell-
gplggr, 640 5th Ave., New York 19. Unpaged.

Winning of the West, Felix Sutton. Grasset Er
gprggp, 1107 Broadway, New York 10. Pp. 48.

Wish-Tree, The, John Ciardi. Crowell-Callier, 640
5th Ave., New York 19. Unpaged. $1.95.

Wonderful Merry Go Round, The, Lola F. Tague.
Lathrap, Lee C1 Shepard, 419 Park Ave. S., New
York 16. Pp. 46. $2.95.

Your Changing Earth, Hy Ruchlis. Harvey House
Publ., lrvingtan-on-Hudsan, N.Y. Pp. 40. $2.50.

SPORTS, PHYSICAL EDUCATION

Fighting Southpaw, The, Edward "Whitey" Ford
and Jack Lang. J. Lawell Pratt, 137 E. 57 St.,
New York 22. Pp. 152. $.50.

Final Whistle, The, Arthur Ellis with Steve Rich-
ards. Spartshelf, PO. Box 634, New Rochelle,

ON..Y. Pp. 174. $5.75.

Fishing for Fun—and Ta Wash Your Soul, Herbert
Hoover. Random House, 457 Madison Ave.,
New York 22. Pp. 86. $3.00.

Free Exercises and Weight Training for Women,
Reg Park. Spartshelf, P.O. Box 634, New Ra-
chelle, N.Y. Pp. 25. Pa er, $3.00.

Handbook of Judo, The, ene LeBelle and L. C.
Caughran. Thas. Nelson, 18 E. 4lst St., New
York 17. Pp. 186. $3.95.

How to Play and Teach Basketball, Franklin Al-
fred Lindeburg. Association Press, 291 Broad-
way, New York 17. Pp. 268. $5.95.

If You'Can Walk You Can Ski, Frank Do .Crowell—
Collier, 1 1 1 Park Ave. S., New York . Pp. 128.

$3.95.

In Pursuit of Archery, C. B. Edwards and E. G.
Heath. Spartshelf, P.O. 80x 634, New Rochelle,
N.Y. Pp. 111. $5.00.

Intramurals': Their Organization and Administra-
tion, Louis E. Means. Prentice-Hall, Englewood
Cliffs, NJ. Pp. 403. $5.95.

Lawn Tennis: How to Discover and Correct Faults
(5th ed.), Maiar T. Moss. Spartshelf, P.O. Box
634, .New Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 47. $1.00.

My Waiting Game, Angelo Mortimer. Spartshelf,
gsoéoBox 634, New Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 196.

Physicol'Educotion as a Career, George K. Ma—
kechnie. Bellman Publ. PO. Box 172, Cam-
bridge 38, Mass. Pp. 30. Paper, $1 .00.

Physical Education for Girls and Women l2nd
ed.l, E. Andrews, H. Smith, M. S uance, M.
Russell. Prentice—Hall, Englewood lifts, N.J.
Pp. 263. Paper, $4.95.

PHYOSICBI Education in the Elementary School Cur-
riculum, Arthur G. Miller, Ed. D. Er Virginia
whitcomb, Ed. D. Prentice-Hall, Englewood
Cliffs NJ. Pp. 340. $5.95.

Rugby Skills, Training and Tactics, Les Williams.
Spartshelf, PO. Box 634, New Rochelle, N.Y.
.Pp. 192. $5.75.

Science of Judo, The, A. P. Harrington. Emerson
Books, 251 W. 19 St., New York. Pp. 160. $3.95.

Seven Years in Little League Baseball, Robert B.
Starling. Reel and Starling, Grcenville, N.C.
Pp. 11 . $3.60.

Slugger ln Right, Roger Maris and Jim Ogle.
gizrggosnaut Books, Larchmont, N.Y. Pp. 190.

Soccer Annual 1962-1963, William Graham, Edi-
tor. Sgortshelf, P.O. Box 634, New Rochelle,
N.Y. p. 144. Paper, $1.25.

Saccer with the Stars, Billy Bingham. Spartshclf,
PO. Box 634, New Rochelle, N. Y. Pp. 192.
$5.00.

Sports Car Rally Handbook, The, Gene Hammond.
Sterling Publ., 419 Park Ave. S., New York
16. Pp. 144. Paper, $1.00.

Sport, Sport, Sport: True Staries of Grcat Athletes
and Great Human 8eings, John Lowell Pratt,
Editor. J. Lowell Prott and Co., 137 E. 57th St.,
New York 22. Pp. 183. $.50.

Swimmlng: A Stcp-by-Ste Book, J. G. Gorstang.
Spartshelf, P.O. Box 6 4, New Rochelle, N.Y.
Pp. 95. $3.75.

Table Tennis Today, Victor Barno. Spartshelf,
PO. Box 634, New Rochelle. Pp. 127. $4.75.

Young Athlete's Companion, The, John Dislcy.
Spartshelf, PO. Box 634, New Rochclle, N.Y.
Pp. 142. $4.25.

 

MAGAZINE ARTICLES

 

AMERICAN CITY, October 1963
Concrete Trees for the Beach, Poul Fortune Losi
and John G. Woods.
A Lift-Dame Auditorium, John Clary.
PARENTS' Magozlne, October 1963
Fun for a Yaung Convalescent, Pauline L. Jen—
sen.
Accidents Don't Just Happen, Harriet H. Gib-
ney.
RINK-ARENA and Recreation Complex, Septem-
ber-October 1963
Detroit and Toronto Render Valuable Commu-
nity Service with their Ice Rinks.
WOMAN'S DAY, October 1963
The Dimensions af Creativity, Hilda Cales Espy.
A Cavalcade of Costumes.
YWCA Magazine, October 1963
Bringing Visitors from Abroad into American
Life, Mabel Alice Tuggle.

RECREATION

Pamphlet Series“- - The. Performing \rts as Recreation

Wow [:5 [A42 [5mg {0

Grace [9 Magic

wifA

pet/owning
./4 '[d

p'ogramd

 

Order in QUANTITY LOTS

No.1 — MUSIC IS RECREATION
' No. II — DRAMA IS RECREATION
No. III —— DANCE IS RECREATION

The Right Tools for the .101)

Use with

Your staff .. Your board or commission
Advisory Committees Citizen conunittees
Cluhs Planning groups
And for
Fundraising Promotion of bond issues
Publicity Selling recreation
Education Training of volunteers
Program Planning Telling your story

Current prices as applied to each title
Single copies—$1.00 each Set of three titlcs—$2.50

11 to 24 copies of the same title—$.85 each 0 25 or more—$.75 each
100 or over of the same title-——$65 per hundred 0 Single copy—$1.00

Order from

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION 8 1V est 8th Street, New York, N.Y. 10011

l

-w- .9 2

   MANY  Just as one boy-sized puff scatters these seeds far and wide, the
one adult-sized pledge you made last year to the United Com-

munity Campaign sowed uncountable seeds of help and hope. A

handicapped little boy learned to walk again, a sick girl became

well, a puzzled teen-ager chose the right road, a broken family

was reunited. That's what United Way giving is based on -—-one

gift working many wonders. N 0 other contribution you make does
so much good for so many people—every single day of the year.

 

