{ECRETION

l'lONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION FEBRUARY 1963

 

‘ pplement Bonus:
I NOE

| .

H CREATION!

 

roll it in . . . . PLAY
roll it out . . .TUCK IT AWAY

1‘

 

 

Any room can become a game room in seconds with the Sico
TUCK-AWAY. It talks and unfolds quickly, safely. Exclusive
“Floating Fold” enables one person to open or close the
table in 3 seconds. Full regulation size—yet folds to only
18” x 60” for storing. USTTA approved for official tourna-
rnent play. The TUCK-AWAY provides an efficient solution
to the need for leisure time relaxation——in industry, hotels,

schools, hospitals, and other institutions. Get complete
Information on the 'I‘UCK-AWAY by writing.

 MANUFACTURING COMPANY, INC.

5215 Eden Ave. 80., Minneapolis, Minn., Dept.

 
 

POWERFUL ATNTED PLUNGER CLEARS

TOILETS

 
   
  

Clear messy, stuffed toilets
Cut maintenance costs with

‘TOILAF LIX;

Toilet Plunger

Ordinary plungers don’t seat
properly. They permit com- -
pressed air and water to splash
back. Thus you not only have
a mess, but you lose the very
pressure you need to clear the
obstruction.

With “TOILAFLEX”, ex-
pressly designed for toilets, no
air or water can escape. The
full pressure plows through the
clogging mass and swishes it
down. Can't miss!

      
   
    
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
     
  

  
   
     
   

0 Double cup, double-pressure
0 Tapered tail gives air-tight III
0 Designed to flex at any angle  65

0 Centers, can't skid around Higher in Canada

AVAILABLE AT YOUR HARDWARE SUPPLIER

Get a "TOILAFLEX" for your home too.
Positive insurance ogoinst stutted toilet.

 

STAGECRAFT PORTABLE OUTDOOR SHELL

Symphony and Band Enclosure for Park and Beach Locations

" ‘ 'o  
EEI"lpltni

OUR 1 "UV OF I IIIHNII '.

‘--‘

Photograph, courtesy of the Philodelphio Orchestra Associotion.

THE PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA REHEARSING IN A STAGECRAFT PORTABLE OUT-
DOOR SYMPHONY SHELL ERECTED FOR A SPECIAL CONCERT AT GARDEN STATE

PARK, CAMDEN, NEW JERSEY.

 

DEVELOPED BY STAGECRAFT

Designers and Consultants in the field
of Musical Acoustics.

0 Portable Outdoor Shells

0 Indoor Symphony Enclosures

0 Touring Recital Shells

0 Sound Reinforcement Systems

0 Musical Acoustic Consulting Services

For further information write:

STAGECRAFT CORP. Div. 6—8

25 Belden Avenue, Norwalk, Connecticut

Home

Organization

Address

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

. FUND RAISING?

“Jim, 5am. m gm Way,"

$240 to $20,000 or more can be raised by your group during your Fund

 

Raising Campaign using “The Sweet and Easy Way" to fund raising.

 

 

Give Your Group a Lift

Selling
Dutch Maid

Party Time Assortment

‘k For TOP Quality * TOP Value
and * TOP Profit

 

From Dutch Maid’s spotless confection kitchens we bring you one
full pound of mouth-watering goodness, an assortment of delectable
milk chocolate-enrobed confections designed for and sold by fund
raising groups exclusively. NEVER SOLD IN STORES.

I

 

‘l
I
I
|
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
|
I
I
I
I
I
a]

' |
Ma1l In Coupon I mummy. I
I Dutch Maid Quality COnfection Kitchens I
I 50 cm on Blvd.

for : Cliftont. N. I. i
Complete Information I Name ..................................................................................................... .. :
I Address .................................................................................................... .. I
011 I :

u H | Ci .................................................. .. .. . . . . . ..  State ...................... ..
Jim 5mm amt (fang, Way. : w I
Organization .......................................................................................... .. |
' I
to : Phone ...................................................................................................... .. :
  : Age—if under 21 .................................................................................... .. :
I. __________________________ _..,

FEBRUARY, 1963 When writing to our advertisers nlease mention RECREATION. 53

HE C REMION

 

  
  
 

 

I
FEBRUARY 1963 VOL. LVl, NO. 2 PRICE 60c
My Philosophy of Recreation (Editorial) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . H. D. Edgren. 59
The variety of recreation experience
Public Gifts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Joseph E. Curtis 61
A third of local park and recreation acreage has been donated
A Dream of Spring . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ann Black 62
_l Community cooperation flowers into a' festival
(3 The Key to Nature . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Reynold E. Carlson 64
3 A new dimension to learning about the out-of-doors '
Ten Basic Concepts of Aging . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
Popular misconceptions about our senior citizens
I
Let There Bc Music . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . William Bergmann 68
Planning, preparation, promotion. and presentation of community concerts I
Staff Relations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ralph Andrews 70!
The importance of individual, creative job expression I
I
E DANCE IS RECREATION Virginia M ussclman and Siebolt Fricswylc 71 I
g This month’s bonus to subscribers:
2 Third in the pamphlet series on The Performing Arts as Recreation
n.
2 Good Recreation Mauagcmettt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hugh Hines 88
Q A city manager examines the problems of administration
.—
<
95 Notes for tltc Administrator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 91
g Concepts of cooperative planning
2
((3 Recreation Site Findcrs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .’ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Lester Fox 92
Soils conservation maps uncover important information
.—
3 Finding Buried Treasure in the Hospital . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Robert Sornmer and Irene Watson 94
a An inventory of patients’ interests, shills, and talents
1'.
35 Letters 56 As \Ve Go To Prcss 57 Reportcr’s Notebook 87 Market News 98
g Rcsourcc Guidc 99 Rx for the III and Handicapped 102 New Publications 103
E
RECREATION is published monthly except July and August by the National Recreation Copyright, 1963. by the National ....._
Association, a service organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 8 West Eighth memm “’“mhm I"°°”’°"‘°d 
Street, New York 11, New York, is on tile in public libraries and is indexed in the Readers’ Printed in the U.S.A. “3"”
Guide. Subscription $5.00 a year. Canadian and foreign subscription rate $5.75. Re-en-
tered as second-class matter April 25, 1950, at the Post Oflice in New York, New York. DU CATIONAL Tl:- grtlclol: heroin
l .
under Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided  ATION fin: .of  1.5..1f’212
for in Section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized May 1, 1924. Microfilms of current AM ERIE: ;?'1:9"3:3;:;|°f323§2
issues available from University Microfilms, 313 N. First Street. Ann Arbor, Michigan. "on Amm'wn’
54 RECREATION

l

RECREATION

 

Editor in Chief, JOSEPH PRENDERGAST

Editor, DOROTHY DONALOSON

Assistant Editor, ELVIRA DELANY

Associate Editor for Program
VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

Business Manager
FRANK ROWE

Advertising Manager
ESTA CLUCK

 

On the Cover

Here comes February . . . this time a
little girl on skis. Getting straightened
out on skiing problems is fun in a win-
ter world of sparkling snow. Classes for
children under twelve, as well as for
older boys and girls, are now being con-
ducted throughout the Northland. In
this photo, courtesy the Canadian Cdv-
ernment Travel Bureau, a young miss
at the Chalet Cochand in the Laurentian
Mountains of Quebec, tries to get every-
thing coordinated. ( F or further in.-
formation about recreation in Canada

see Pages 87, 94, and 96. )

Next Month

Outdoor camping will be the empha-
sis for our March issue again this year.
There will be several solid articles on
day camping, some on camping facili-
ties, program, long hikes, camping for
the handicapped and aged, off-season
camping in national parks. “Art Ex—
periences in Camping” by Dr. Roy Dod-
son contains excellent suggestions on re-
lating the camp art program to the
camping area. Articles on other topics
will include “Supply and Demand for
Parklands” by George Butler, “Recrea-
tion Promotes Health” by Dr. Howard
Rusk, and “Outdoor Recreation Re-
sources,” a listing of publications on
outdoor recreation, based on research
conducted by federal agencies, universi-
ties, or private organizations, covering
a wide range of subjects, many of which

have had little intensive study previ-
ously.

Photo Credits

Page 62, Thompsons, Knoxville, Ten-
nessee; 64, (top) U.S. Department of
Agriculture; 68 (top) Fred C. Walter,
Chicago. ( C redits for the supplement on
“Dance Is Recreation,” Pages 71-86,
are listed in that section.)

FEBRUARY, 1963

 

 

Announcing

two new books

THE LEISURE AGE: Its Challenge to Recreation

by Normon P. Miller, University of Colifornio, los Angeles, and Duane

Robinson, George Williams College. One of the finest texts on recre-
ation in the field, this book presents the first organized synthesis of

its foundations. Tracing the forces and concepts that hove shaped
recreation up to the present through history, philosOphy, sociology,
psychology and economics, the authors relate this enhanced picture
of recreation to the American concept of "leisure." The need for 0

professional methodology is also discussed. $6.95. SI 2 pages.

RECREATION IN AMERICAN LIFE

by Reynold Carlson, Theodore R. Deppe and Janet R. Macleon, Indi-
ono University. Clearly written, this comprehensive text gives a bol-
anced picture of American recreation today, covering local, state
and national programs; individual forms of recreation; and the pro-
groms of voluntary, private, and commerciol organizations. The im-
portance of quolified leadership is stressed as one of the means by
which society can combat the problems stemming from the increosing
recreational needs of the notion. $7.50. 512 poges.

Wadsworth
Publishing Company
Belmont, California

Healthful fun for every age group!
DIMCO SHUFFLEBOARD

ChildrenI young people, adults . . . everyone enioys
Dimco Shuffleboard for excitement, relaxation and
wholesome exercise! Court diagram can easily be laid,
indoors or outdoors. Famous Dimco equipment, in
low-price "Sunlife" or premium-quality "Free-Glide"
lines, comes in sturdy Regulation Sets or Junior Sets
[2/3 regulation size].

FREE . . . Court layout plans. game rules. catalog of
Dimco shuffleboard sets. Write today to:

DIMCO-GRAY, 205 E. Sixth St., Dayton 2, Ohio

 

 

 

 
  
  
  
 

“MUSIC TEACHER
by CARABO-CONE

Available from

RECREATION
BOOK (ENTER
8Wesl81h Street
New York I I
al $5.

Endorsed by Univ. psychologists.
Develops child‘s reading & rhylhmic co-
ordinotion. Published by Horper 8. Row.
Leclures, consultalions availoble. For in-
Iroductory molerlol plus Keyboard Read-
ing Chart send $1 to Cone, Box 356,
Scarsdole, N. Y.

         

KARATE SUITS
Best Quality — Lowest Prlces

Honda Associates, Inc.

50 West 47th St., New York 36. N. Y.
Write for Free Catalog

 
 

JUDO SUITS '

    
    

   

  

ThePl-AYGROUND

 

When writing to our advertisers nleaso mention RECREATION. 55

56

WE’VE GUT
TRUPHIES
ON THE BRAIN

. . . fifty thousand possible combi-
nations of trophies for every con-
ceivable use .. . probably the
largest selection of trophies and
awards anywhere. Write for your
FREE catalog now. SAVE 50% dis-
count from list price . . . and the
engraving is FREE.

EMBLEM 8: BABE ii?

859 North Main Street
Providence 4, R. I. DE 1-5444

 

  
   
 
   

437

GO

Add us to your staff
by renting films from

SWANK’S

Write for our latest list of new releases
of wholesome. entertaining movies.

KEEP POSTED on what's new in movies.
Mail this coopon today.

El send list of new movie releases
El add my name to your mailing list

Name

Address

 

City___________8tate

SWANK Motion Pictures, Inc.

621 North Skinker, St. Louis 30. Missouri
PArkview 6-3333

/L§

LETTERS

 

The Good and the Bad

Sirs:

This is in reply to Sidney Lutzin’s
article, entitled “The Squeeze Out,” in
the October issue. The statements con-
tained herein are intended as my per-
sonal opinions only and are in no way
to be construed as reflecting the opinion
of the department by which I am em-
ployed or the opinions of those with
whom I am associated.

Frankly, I am surprised and disap-
pointed to read such a lot of controver-
sial gohbledegook written by an eminent
administrator in the field of public rec-
reation. Surely, Mr. Lutzin must be
misinformed when he says that problem
youngsters and those already enmeshed
in unlawful acts receive but the shallow-
est token of services from organized rec-
reation in their neighborhoods . . . that
in [not] serving the confused. the
abused. and the misused victims of our
complex society . . . we abdicate our
responsibilities. . . .

If Mr. Lutzin would come with me
to the recreation centers of the Western
states; yes, if he would visit the recrea-
tion centers of the Sprawling metropolis
of Los Angeles, he would see firsthand
that our services are available to all-—
the rich and the poor plus those in be-
tween, regardless of age, color, creed,
or economic station in life. Here are
welcomed the “misfits.” the prohlern
youngsters, and those who have been
enmeshed with the law. All these are
welcome, so long as they will conform
to acceptable standards 0/ conduct, par-
ticipating in activities with a wholesome
and friendly attitude and respecting the
rights of others.

If anyone here receives but the shal-
lowest token of services from organized
recreation you may he sure that this is
the way he wants it . . .! Here on the
West Coast participation in organized
public recreation is still a voluntary
privilege. without the need for compul-
slon.

And why does Mr. Lutzin accuse rec-
reation of ahdicating its responsibilities
in [not] serving the abused. and the
misused victims of our complex society?
Apparently, he is crusading to have pub-
lic playgrounds converted into rehabili-
tation centers, where these unfortunates
may he trained and restored to become
“good boys”? Such a philosophy would
in eflect transform the neighborhood
playground into a neighborhood reform
school and would therehy defeat the
very purpose for which it was con-

structed! I
I’ll admit that I’m not young enough

. to know everything. but of this one

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

thing I am certain: “Ont goes the Good
patron, when In comes the Bad.” In
other words, whenever a public play-
ground becomes a rehabilitation center
to reform delinquents, it is quickly
shunned by the good patrons. Would
you permit your son or daughter to fre-
quent such a hypothetical playground?
Neither would I.

And who would do such a task of re-
habilitation? Locally, our recreation
directors are trained to be what I like
to call “Engineers of Human Happi-
ness.” They are not trained or hired to
be social caseworkers or doctors of de-
linquency.

Of course, there are other depart-
ments or agencies whose functions in-
volve such techniques of rehabilitation.
These are stalled hy experts, trained
specifically for such work. And they
are, indeed, doing a splendid job. But
please let’s NOT bring this business onto
our public playgrounds .’

When first 1 read these explosive in-
dictments of public recreation. 1 won-
dered why Mr. Lutzin was so upset.
Somehow, his skilled but savage use of
the Queen's English reminded me of the
bottom half of a double-boiler, which
can get all steamed up but doesn‘t know
what’s cookin’.

liut then it dawned on me that the
author might in reality be correctly
describing conditions as they exist today
in New York State. Could this be so?
After all, the methods and techniques
by which public recreation is dispensed
do vary greatly among the cities and
states throughout the nation. In that
case it would be I who am sounding like
the bottom half of a double-boiler. not
M r. Lutzin.

Furthermore, while the author’s
“chip-on-the-sboulder” invectives failed
to sell me his hill of goods, 1 must admit
that he really (lid me a very fine favor.
That’s right! His dramatic article
strongly motivated me to ponder the
trends of techniques and services in pub-
lic recreation in an attempt to visualize
the future of this profession.

And for this 1 am truly grateful to
Mr. Lutzin.

ERNEST B. EHRKE, Director, Harbor
District, Los Angeles Department 0/
Recreation and Parks, Wilmington.

California.

Turbid \Vater

Sirs:

We are anxious to retain the natural
sand-stone hottom in our ninety million-
square-feet, three-and-a-half million-
gallon Memorial Park swimming area.

Continued on Page 101

RECREATION

 

AS WE GO TO PRESS

F PROPOSED LEGISLATION to promote
effective coordination and development
of federal and state outdoor recreation
programs has been submitted to Con-
gress, according to an announcement by
Secretary of the Interior Stewart L.
Udall on January 11. The bill outlines
the responsibilities of the department’s
new Bureau of Outdoor Recreation in
providing assistance and counsel relat-
ing to the outdoor recreation activities
of some twenty federal agencies. It also
provides for cooperation with states,
local governments, and non-profit or-
ganizations in establishing outdoor rec-
reation programs. Secretary Udall
pointed out, in addition, that passage of
such organic legislation would be a ma-
j or step in making effective the recom-
mendations of the Outdoor Recreation
Resources Review Commission, the
body created by Congress in 1958. ( F or
report of this commission, see RECREA-
TION, March and April, 1962.)

F FROM President Kennedy’s State of
the Union Message: “Our already over-
crowded national parks and recreation
areas will have twice as many visitors
ten years from now. If we do not plan
today for the future growth of these and
other great natural assets—not only
parks and forests but wildlife and wild-
erness preserves, and water projects of
all kinds—our children and their chil-
dren will be poorer in every sense of
the word.”

F THE “PARKS IN CITIES” bill of Sena-
tor Harrison A. Williams of New Jersey
has received Warm endorsement from
some of the nation’s leading authorities
on urban recreation needs. This bill
would give cities additional help in ac-
quiring open space in urban renewal
areas for park, playground, and other
public recreation purposes. It would
permit the federal government to as-
sume the entire cost of acquiring land
planned for such purposes. At present,
cities must generally bear a third of the
cost.

“The response thus far indicates that
our urban planners and elected ofiicials
feel a clear need for the bill,” says Sen-
ator Williams. “They recognize that
parks are often forgotten or abandoned
in the final planning of urban redevel-
opment projects because the pressures
for tax-producing buildings are too
great. This bill would help them, and it
would help create new neighborhoods
with open space for play and quiet en-
joyment.”

In making this announcement, the
senator said he was especially impressed
with the analysis made by Milo F.

FEBRUARY, 1963

Christiansen, superintendent of recrea-
tion in Washington, D.C., and president
of the Federation of the National Pro-
fessional Organizations for Recreation.
Mr. Christiansen said in part: “With
three-quarters of the nation’s popula-
tion living in urban areas, it is exceed-
ingly important that there be recreation
facilities near at hand for their enjoy-
ment. Children have free time every
day. Therefore, they need neighbor-
hood recreation areas to which they can
easily walk after school, on holidays,
and during summer vacations.

“Adults, likewise, want tennis courts,
balliields and swimming pools near
their homes so that they may find relax-
ation after a day of toil. Others seek
recreation centers where they may learn
leisure skills and spend their free time
with neighbors and friends.

“No one should be denied the oppor-
tunity to enjoy his leisure simply be-
cause he has no automobile or because
public transportation is not available.
State and regional parks, forests, and
rivers are certainly necessary elements
in a total recreation plan. However,
these facilities are visited on more or
less special occasions—a once-a-month
picnic, a weekend hike, or a once-a-year
vacation. They do not meet the day-to-
day needs of our children, their parents,
the retired, or the aged.

“The empty lot where once we played
baseball now contains an apartment
building; the ‘old swimming hole’ is
now a polluted storm sewer. The edge
of town was once just a few minutes
walk from home and then we could en-
joy a pleasant hike through woods and
dale. Now the edge of one town meets
that of another and we ‘hike’ danger-
ously over miles of concrete ribbons
called highways before we can find even
a grove of trees.”

F THE NATION’S LARGEST Wilderness
Area was established in the National
Forest System on January 11. An eighty-
mile-long stretch of wild mountain
country along the Bitterroot Divide be-
tween Idaho and Montana and some
forty-five miles of the free flowing Sel-
way River have been formally changed
from Primitive Area to Wilderness
Area, according to an announcement of
Secretary of Agriculture Orville L.
Freeman. “This new Wilderness Area,
comprising 1,239,800 acres in four Na-
tional Forests in Idaho and Montana,
is the largest formally proclaimed Wild-
erness Area in the National Forest Sys-
lem.”

F “SKIDOOS” BANNED IN PARKS. A pro-
hibition against the use of mechanical

m“

 

sleds (skidoos) in Montrcal parks was
invokcd by Parks Director Andre Cham-
pagne recently. He stated that the safety
of children and protection of shrubs
were involved, and that authorities
would deal severely with Offenders. The
ban was based on a 1948 bylaw con-
cerning riding vehicles in the parks.

F THE BUSINESS OUTLOOK for 1963, as
economists in both government and in-
dustry see it, looks like this: The new
year will be another good one—much
like 1962 over-all, though the quarterly
pattern is likely to be a bit different.
These conclusions are still tentative be-
cause the experts are still not sure how
they should appraise the latest business
statistics, the new feelings of optimism,
and the proposed tax cuts. These could
produce a surge; indeed, a handful of
analysts are now predicting a boom.
Clearly, forccasters are more hopeful
than they were a few months ago. Prices
are expected to move only moderately;
that is, to continue the near-stability of
the last few years. Despite the quick-
ening pace of business, there is still
plenty of slack in the economy and thus
plenty of competition.

F A STUDY COMMISSION has just been
appointed in Courtenay, British Colum-
bia, Canada, to look into the possibility
of forming a recreation district in the
Courtenay area, on the east coast of
Vancouver Island, about one hundred
miles north of Victoria, the capital of
the province. Alderman F. S. Williams,
recreation commission chairman, said
the provincial government will be
watching the project with great inter-
est, “Results of the study commission
on recreation may serve as a pilot for
other sections of the province.”

THINGS YOU SHOULD KNOW

F WANTED: Good, meaty articles for
RECREATION Magazine on the following
topics:

Family recreation programs

Church-sponsored recreation

Use of volunteers in recreation

Military service club programs

Seasonal programs, special events

Books, libraries, reading

Leadership and personnel

Unique university programs

F QUICK ACTION is needed on youth un-
employment, according to Senator Hu-
bert H. Humphrey of Minnesota. He
points out that the sharp increase in un-
employment among teenagers in the
past months emphasizcs the need for
passage of the Youth Employment Op-

portunities Act now before Congress.

57

tmmntmnmtltumnm

This act, as it stands now, has two prin-
cipal parts: the Youth Conservation
Corps and the Public Service Corps. “I
believe in this legislation,” the senator
said, “I intend to fight for it. I predict
that before the first session of the 88th
Congress is completed, it will be signed
into law.”

} A NEW EMBLEM has been adopted by
the US. Bureau of Sport Fisheries and
Wildlife. It is in the form of a shield,
with “U.S. Department of the Interior”
across the top and “Fish and Wildlife”
across the bottom. The central part of
the shield is a circle with “Bureau of
Sport Fisheries and Wildlife” printed
around the rim. The inside of the circle
depicts a marsh scene, with a fish leap-
ing from the water, symbolizing the bu-
reau’s sport fisheries activities. Over-
head is the familiar flying goose sym-
bolizing its wildlife work.

D THE REGIONAL PLANNING Assocm-
TION is asking citizens for help in plan-
ning for the twenty-two county metro-
politan area in New York, which it says
will have a six million population
growth in the next quarter century.
Some ten thousand invitations will be
sent to organizations all over the region
to participate in reading and discussion
programs, with TV shows scheduled for
this spring. The RPA is anxious to learn
what future present-day dwellers want.

P THE ENTIRE MOUNTAIN-PLAINS REGION
of the United States faces the challenge
of developing a recreation area for the
whole nation, announces the Colorado
College Civic Design Study Commis-
sion. An eighty-page report is the result
of a year-long study conducted by a
grant from the Rockefeller Foundation.
It points out that recreation may be the
best hope of this region for the future.
It stresses the importance of conccntrat-
ing upon natural regional advantages
and recommends that “the area should
serve as a model for the advancement of
other semi-arid regions of the world and
as a laboratory for experiments in liv-
ing designs for these other regions.”
Among other suggestions for develop-
ment of the area are: the establishment
of wholly new cities to help take care of
population explosion, advanced scienti-
fic research centers, new educational
institutions and fine-arts programs, a
center for language and cultural under-
standing, and a national recreation area.

D How T0 INTERVIEW. The Highlights
of the 1962 Seminar on How to Inter-
view will be sent free to anyone who will
enclose a stamped return envelope and
mention this magazine. Address the In-
stitute of Occupational Research, 104

Webster Avenue, Manhasset, New York.

V PEAK INTEREST IN SCIENCE occurs at
the age of twelve, according to the Sep-

58

C. Gernon Brown, executive assist-
ant director of the New Orleans Rec-
reation Department and long an in-
tegral part of that city’s recreation
affairs, died suddenly on January 22
at the age of sixty-two. Mr. Brown
was one of the eight advisors who

planned the New Orleans Junior
Sports Association, forerunner of the
city’s recreation department estab-
lished in 1946. Before becoming ex-
ecutive assistant director of the de-
partment in 1954, Mr. Brown had
served as program coordinator. A

 

tember 15, 1962 issue of Science News
Letter. “At that age, when boys and
girls are exploring the new intellectual,
emotional, and physical challenges of
junior high school, the remarkable con-
tagion of twentieth-century science par-
ticularly affects them,” it states in an
article on the subject, “and great num-
bers are apt to discover a personal in-
clination for science.” Other peak ages
of original science-mindedness reported
in a Science Service study of the 387
students who were finalists at the 13th
National Science Fair-International at
Seattle last May include ten-year-olds,

indicated by 12.5 percent of the final-
ists; and eleven- and thirteen-year-olds,

each responsible for ten percent of these
high-ability future scientists.

CALENDAR

World Theatre Day, March 27. Theatre-
minded communities will want to celebrate
this. Remember that Drama Is Recreation
(see back cover of supplement, Page 86).
For program suggestions, write Ruth R.
Mayleas, U.S. Institute for Theatre Tech-
nology, Inc., Box 291, Cathedral Station,
New York 25.

Annual Convention of the American
Association of Health, Physical Edu-
cation and Recreation, May 3-7, Minn-
neapolis, Minnesota.

The 1963 Annual National Archery
Tournament, July 29-August 2, at the
University of California, Los Angeles
Campus. Pre-registration is requested and
should be made as soon as possible. Write
the NAA Secretary, 23 East Jackson Boule-
vard, Chicago 4, or James D. Easton,
Tournament Director, NAA, 5110 Encino
Avenue, Encino, California.

National Library Week, April 21 to 27.
This is sponsored by the National Book
Committee, but for help and materials
write to the American Library Association,
50 East Huron Street, Chicago.

National Music Week, May 5-12. The
fortieth observance of this week. Until very
recently, it was under the Sponsorship of
the National Recreation Association, but
it is now sponsored by the National Fed-
eration of Music Clubs. It always begins
on the first Sunday in May. The 1963
theme is “Let the World Rejoice with
Music.” A suggested plan for its observa-
tion can be obtained from National Fed-

graduate of the Loyola University
Law School, he spent twenty years at
Jesuit High School as a mathematics
teacher, football coach, and director
of dramatics and also taught math at
the Louisiana State University Med-
ical School. On the day before his
deatr, Mr. Brown had visited Na-

tional Recreation Association head-
quarters in New York City to discuss
plans for the Association’s National
Advisory Committee on Recreation
Programs and Activities, of which he
was the new chairman.

D BALINESE AND JAVANESE DANCES will
be taught at the University of California
this spring in what is believed to be the
only such course in the country offered
at a university level, it has been an-

nounced by Dr. Alma Hawkins, chair-
man of the UCLA dance department.
The course Will be taught by dancer
Hazel Chung, a J uilliard graduate who
left Broadway to study for three years
in Java and Bali, where her mastery of
Indonesian dances Won the praise of
President Sukarno. This type of the
dance is interwoven with the island-re-
public’s mythology, religion, history,
and philosophy, and the university’s
idea is that it will be of benefit not only
to dance majors but to students in an-
thropology, folklore, music, education,

and other fields.

OF EVENTS

eration headquarters, Suite 1215, 600 S.
Michigan Avenue, Chicago 5, Illinois.

The 12th National Square Dance Con-
vention, June 20-22, St. Paul, Minnesota,
will be held in the Municipal Auditorium.
The building, with six halls, many wooden
floors, and a theater, provides ample space

for dancers. Panels, workshops and clinics
will be featured. Write to the 12th Na-

tional Square Dance Convention, Box 3330,
St. Paul, Minnesota, for registration blanks
and information.

Children’s Art Month, March, will fea-
ture the theme “Art Is Everywhere.” Aids
available from The Crayon, Water Color
and Craft Institute, Inc., 420 Lexington
Avenue, New York 17, are: Suggestions
for Community C00peration; Planning a
Successful Art Exhibit; Statements and
Proclamations by State Governors; How
to Publicize Children’s Art in Your Com-
munity; Suggested Radio and Television
Spots and Newspaper Fillers; Quotations
on Children’s Art by Famous Peeplc.”

64th Annual Meeting, The American
Society of Architects, Jame 23 to 26,
Penn-Sheraton Hotel, Pittsburgh, Pennsyl-
vania. For additional'information, write
the society at 2000 K. Street, N.W., Wash-
ington 6, D.C.

60th Annual Convention, National
Catholic Educational Association,
April 16 to 19, in St. Louis. The associa-
tion’s address is 1785 Massachusetts Ave-
nue, N.W., Washington 6, D.C.

RECREATION

—‘l-P .P_—

 

PHIL.

 

MY

.r\._.  ....

GUEST EDITORIAL

 

“New concepts are a must”

H. D. EDGREN

A PROFESSIONAL PHILOSOPHY should

be concerned with heliefs and
ways of functioning based on values,
needs of people, and the use of basic
principles. My philosophy of recrea-
tion revolves around two basic concepts:
the supreme importance of the individ-
ual and the contribution that recreation
can make to the enrichment of human life.

I use the term recreation to apply to all these voluntarily
chosen experiences and activities in the leisure of people.
Organized recreation is identified with purposeful goals
that lead to life enrichment, unity of life, and quality of liv-
ing which includes thc programs of public and voluntary
agencies, school, and religious groups wherever experiences
take place in the leisure life of the individual. We can no
longer accept the concept that public recreation deals with
the mass and therefore quantity is the goal or that voluntary
agencies deal with small groups and therefore quality is
achieved. A study of public and voluntary agencies revealed
that quality will be achieved in any agency when leadership
is adequate and effective.

Recreation today has become an important segment of
American life. Further automation in the years ahead will
make leisure of even greater significance to the people of
our country. For many, work will only be the means of se-
curing in leisure those experiences that make life meaning-
ful. Recreation has become a significant function in our
society and like other functions. such as health, education,
and government, must have well-qualified professional
leadership.

A professional will need to be more specific in the ob-
jectives and goals of recreation in terms of the values to
the participant. The objectives should focus on the indi-

DR. EDGREN is professor of recreation leadership at Purdue
University, West Lafayette, Indiana.

FEBRUARY, 1963

vidual and the range should include all those values that
contribute to the good life of the individual. General pur-
poses, such as fun and happiness, are not enough. “Fun”
may well be the goal of the participant, but it is not the pro-
fessional objective. Fun is a result of the kind of experiences
individuals may have had that have met their needs. Many
recreation leaders have been too long content with claiming
they have the “know-how.” They have been experts in know-
ing what to do and how to do it, but have been unable to
identify why they do it. The well-qualified professional rec-
reation director will know the what, how, and why of his
program.

TODAY, it is accepted that adequate and effective leader-
ship is the key to successful program and administra-
tion. Recent studies cause one to question whether quali-
fications and traits are the same for all leaders. Ross and
Hendry in New Understandings of Leadership gives con-
siderable evidence that the situation and needs of thc group
determine the leader. What is needed at a particular time
in the life of a group has a big effect on the type of leader
who will be needed. This should prompt us to recognize'
that many individuals have qualifications for leadership and
can serve in the role of leader at various times in the life
of a group. It supports the belief that, “Leaders are made
and not born.” We have too long magnified and bclabored
the need for motor and activity skills as a requirement of the
recreation professional and have failed to magnify the need
for the skills of the creator, the stimulator, the organizcr,
the promoter, the cooperator, the evaluator, and the skills
which make for the successful executive who will help the
public to recognize and accept organized recreation with
professional leadership.

We must move from a belief that volunteers are only poor
substitutes for paid workers to a conccpt that “being a vol-
unteer” is “program” for the voluntcer. Using them is jus-

59

tified for the value that comes to the volunteer as well as to
the leadership of the department. Being related to some
cause like organized recreation is a way of giving Iife, mean-
ing, and significance to the volunteer.

Variety of recreation experiences is recognized as a
worthy principle of programing in recreation. However,
all too often, we magnify these activities as ends in them-
selves rather than means to an end. The end should be the
growth and deveIOpment of the individual. Variety in activi-
ties then increases the potential of reaching more people and
meeting the needs of a greater number of participants, for
all activities vary in their possible contributions. Activities
by themselves are neither good or bad, for it is the mean-
ing of the activity to the individual that makes it significant.
It is the professional’s task to so conduct an activity that it
becomes significant to the participant.

OUR LIFE EXPECTANCY is greater; we are healthier; we
have more money and many more hours of leisure
time than ever before. However, the world is for many people
one of neurosis and frustration. In our life today of speed,
tension, and fear of war, some objectives of recreation might
well be that of learning to live relaxed and leisurely with-
out compulsion. In achieving this, we might well team up
with religion, for recreation and religion have much in com-
mon. They both function in the leisure of people, and they
both strive to contribute to the good life of the individual.
Recreation in the days ahead will need to magnify the im-

Interservice Showcase

portance of meditation, contemplation, and relaxed living.
Charles Brightbill in Man and Leisure discusses the similar
objectives of recreation and religion and says, “If there is
a single umbrella of common interest and potential in these
two important aspects of living, it is perhaps in the endless
opportunity they both offer for helping to integrate the total
personality, for helping to develop the wholeness of the in-
dividual, for helping to relate the wholeness of one person
to the wholeness of the universe, and for helping attain a
harmony between an internal satisfaction and an external
pressure.” A professional who believes that objectives de-
termine program also accepts evaluation as a part of his phil-
osophy. All too often the number of participants has been
our only criterion of evaluation. We count numbers—and
after a while only numbers count.

Some leaders refer to other values as the “intangibles”
of our program and they are thus relieved of considering
them further. This has served as a screen to excuse leaders
from pursuing evaluation. In reality, it must be the objec-
tives and goals in the life of the participant that must become
the basis for evaluation of any program. As a significant
fact of administration, we need to rcmind ourselves that
“whatever exists at all, exists in amount—and anything that
exists in amount can be measured.” Adequate tests and tech-
niques are available for evaluating the many objectives of
recreation. Frequent cvaluation should become the basis of
modifying, refining, and upgrading our programs and ad-
ministrative practices. #

Suitable acts from the show will be taken
to the Red Cross and the hospital area

An Inter-Service Recreation Athletic
Council (ISRAC) was formed in the
San Antonio, Texas, area in 1956. The
organization includes Brooks, Kelly,
Lackland, and Randolph Air Force
Bases, Fort Sam Houston, Brooke Army
Medical Center, American lied Cross
hospital recreation workers from
Brooks and Lackland Air Force Base
hospitals, and the city recreation de-
partment.

The Inter-Service Recreation Athletic
Council was created to promote coop-
eration among agencies and recreation
activities for the general public, for mil-
itary personnel, and military depend-
ents. One of the areas the ISRAC Coun-
cil concerns itself with is that of service-
club recreation and entertainment.

This year the decision was made to
hold a talent contest among all the
ISRAC installations in the area each
quarter. The contest was established
to help promote recreation and enter-
tainment among military personnel and
to stimulate a wholesome entertaining

60

activity which would benefit both the
participants, military audiences and
their dependents. The classes of Compe-
tition in the talent contcst are vocal solo-
ist, instrumental soloist, specialty or
novelty acts, vocal groups, and instru-
mental groups.

One show, hosted by Fort Sam Hous-
ton, turned out to be such a success that
it gave impetus to the idea of an ISRAC
touring variety show to be called the
“ISRAC Showcase.” After each of the
contests, William Larsen, entertainment
director at Fort Sam Houston, will pro-
duce the “Showcase” around the partici-

pating contestants to tour the local area.

    

Sectional folding set for showcase.

for ambulatory patients. Many of the
acts will also make tours of the hospital
wards. Mr. Larsen designed an unusual
travelling set for the first ISRAC Show-
case. The set can be folded into a pack-
age of four-foot scctions and can be eas-
ily stored or carried.

The lSRAC show reaches out to a
vast audience. By holding contests, re-
hearsals, and performances during nor-
mal oil-duty time, military personnel are
able to participate in an activity usually
not available to them. The show helps
to increase the morale of thc partici-
pants and of those who see the shows.
Patients of Lackland and Brooke Gen-
eral l‘lospitals, through the Red Cross,
are provided with four high-level shows
each year and incidental acts on the
wards for bed patients. 111 addition to
the hospital performances, two pcrform-
ances of each “Showcase” will be pre-
sented in San Antonio for prominent lo-
cal charity agency benefit drives, pro-
viding an excellent media for military-
civilian relationships.

RECREATION

 

 

 

PUBLIC GIFTS

that these seldom “walk” Into one’s ogice . . .

JOSEPH E. CURTIS
MANY MUNICI-
PALITIES face
major changes and
improvements dur-
ing the coming dec-
ade. Most com-
munities hope to
achieve new levels
of attractiveness and efficiency. Urban
renewal, modern industrial deve10p-
ment, business and retail expansion, and
extensive home-building are elements in
this metropolitan rebirth. Recreation
and park facilities should certainly play
a significant role in this improvement
program. Green parks and attractive
play areas bring delight to urban and
suburban dwellers of all ages and can

brighten the most highly developed sec-
tions. Aware of this, most municipali-

 

ties are moving to purchase and develop
a variety of new areas and facilities.

111 the long-range plans for play-
grounds, however, the possibility of
public gifts presented to the munici-
pality by interested citizens and organi-
zations could extend the number and
size of improvements considerably.
These gifts might take the form of small
pieces of land in’highly developed areas,
large tracts of undevelOped pr0perty, or
they might be gifts of specific pieces of
equipment or of work projects. Ex-
amples might be a roof for an ice-
skating rink, a set of new playground
equipment on a local totlot, a unit such
as a shelter building or service building
in a local park or recreation area. Such
gifts of land or improvements may be
made with complete confidence that they
will be available to, and used by, all the
pcople. In fact, some donors frequently
designate specific locations for the ap-
plication of their gifts. Throughout the
country, many fine city parks and facili-

 

MR. CURTIS is commissioner of the de-
partment of recreation and parks in

White Piains, New York.

FEBRUARY. 1963

ties have been the result of such gifts.
Motives behind them include:

0 Memorials to members of old fami-
lies.

0 Perpetuation of the wooded or rustic
atmosphere of some portion of the com-
munity.

o A tangible “Thank You” to city or
community for a happy youth or satis-
fying life time.

o Genuine love for mankind.

o Disposal of rugged or hilly pieces of
pr0perty, useless for other development.
0 Tax deduction under Internal Reve-
nue laws.

A NEW PARK may bring reflected ben-

efits on adjoining property result-
ing in greater beauty and higher real es-
tate values. This has been a motivation
in the donation of many parks in the
past. The cash value of such gifts is
deductible from taxable annual gross
revenues. To distribute the tax benefit,
parts of a given parcel are often donated
in different years. The inheritance tax
operates to encourage liquidation by
public donations of properties before
the death of estate-builders.

One of the country’s finest park sys-
tems is in Minneapolis, where twenty-
two complete parks and a substantial
portion of other parks were gifts. Prob-
ably no other city service rendered is
supported to this extent by gifts from
citizens. The city of Los Angeles, with
a total park acreage of 12,820 acres,
may be cited as another example. It has
169 parks and playgrounds, not includ-
ing off-street parkways and triangles.
Of this number, forty-one were gifts,
totalling 3,474 acres. The largest single
gift was thirty-two hundred acres,
Grifiith Park, added to by purchases and
now totalling 4,254 acres. The donation
of land was followed by a gift of a
miilion-doiiar trust fund to provide cul-
turai faciiities in the park. Other dona-

It is well to remember

tions have included two miles of extra-
ordinarily fine public beach pr0pcrty, a
playground of thirty acres next to a
school property. According to esti-
mates, 3 third of the local park and
recreation acreage in the United States
has been acquired through gifts.

SUCH GIFTS rarely walk into one’s of-
fice. Positive steps must be taken
to create an atmosphere or climate for
such gifts. News stories, statements by
municipal officials, both elected and ap-
pointed, working policies, department
literature and spceches before local or-
ganizations should make clear to the
public that such gifts are welcome. They
must point out the advantages accruing
to the donor, as described above. Above
all, they must generate a real desire to
give, to build, to establish something
lasting and good. When the donor
comes forward, in his opening gesture,
he must be met by the appreciative but
mature reception he logically antici-
pales.

Similarly, public officials must exer-
cise discretion in accepting gifts which
may become public liabilities. A bot-
tomless swamp, a minute piece of real
estate, a dangerous piece of equipment,
these and others of their kind must be
avoided even at the declining of an out-
right gift. The motives of the donor
may be unimpeachable but the munici-
pality must not be saddled with a pub-
lic menace or a “money-gobbler” simply
because it is offered. Competent public
oflicials should be adequate to any such
situation.

One successful “gift” project, com-
pleted and tastefully publicized locally,
can trigger a chain of such gifts over
the years. Through such gifts, long-
range plans for park and recreation im-
provements can be greatly accelerated,
and cost to the individual taxpayer can
he kept within reasonable limits. #-

61

 

A city and nature cooperate in the production

of a full-blown festival combining

local flowers and arts at dogwood time

ANN BLACK

Knoxville, Tennessee, huddled behind storm win-
dows and dreamed of spring. Now three years later

0 E\ A COLD, bleak day in midwinter a small group in

9
the idea conceived that day has flowered into full-grown,

joyous reality as the Dogwood Arts Festival heralding the
hlossoming of Spring with beauty and fun for peOple of
every age and interest.

Climate and soil have combined to rank Knoxville with
Atlanta and Gettysburg as one of the best natural dogwood
areas in the country. Scattered through residential districts,
wooded areas. and hillsides. this breathtaking diSplay of
lacy white blossoms is unbelievably beautiful. For years.
hordes of dazzled Knoxvillians have driven through the most
heavily endowed sections in informal caravans during each
dogwood season. I'nhappily, this quest for beauty more
often than not ended in irritating traffic jams with hopeless~
ly lost siglltseers trying to find their way out of the maze
of meandering suburban streets. 50 the residents of these
dogwood areas began to mark the roads for visitors to fol-
low and the dogwood trail was born. 111 1955, it became an
official annual project of the Chamber of Commerce, a co-
operative effort between the city and its residents. and every
\ear thousands of new dogwoods have been planted.

This much was already history on that wintry day when
the small group members of the Chamber of Commerce,
the Junior League of Knoxville, and city officials were
brought together by their dream. The question they pon-
dered was how could they share this magnificent time of
beauty with others from all over the country, at the same
time encouraging civic pride and a spirit of cooperation
among their fellow residents?

Their answer was an arts festival. to be held during the
dogwood season. The latter part of the question answered
itself. No sooner had they presented their idea to the town
than they were engulfed by a wave of support. Merchants
and businesses donated space. materials. and volunteers:
television and radio stations gave free publicity and cover-
age; the city spruced up its streets and parks and set out
thousands of new trees; and a department store arranged
for free hus tours through the five existing dogwood trails.
The first Dogwood Arts Festival. hehl in 196l, was a huge
success.

The 1902 festival was bigger and better in every wa).
-\ second week was added to include the new organizations
wanting to take part. An intensive sixteen-day program.
crammed with hundreds of events, the 1902 festival hcgan
with an Easter sunrise service and ended with a jazz con-
cert in the newly completed civic auditorium-coliseum. The
1963 festival will be held April 1111-27.

It is a festival for everyone. Festival programs have of-
l'ered music lovers a concert by the Knoxville Symphony
Orchestra. a choral festival. band concerts given by local
high school bands and the University of Tennessee “l’ride
of the Southland” band. and the Dick Jones Civic Concert.
.-.1 group sponsored by the Bureau of Recreation. The ['ni-
\ersity of Tennessee Men’s Glee Club. the Knoxville College

RECREATION

Choir. and the Knoxville Choral Society have performed by

moonlight on the Mall, a lovely park in the heart of the
downtown shOpping area. Jazz concerts feature big-name
artists (Chris Conner and Al Hirt werethe 1961 performers).
The barbershop quartet fan has enjoyed the regional contest
and convention of SPEBSQSA.

The Carousel Theater, the theater-in-the-round on the.
campus of the University of Tennessce, has presented the
winning plays in its annual statewide playwriting contest.
Dance events have included performances by the Knoxville
Ballet Society and the Knoxville Square Dance Association,
which, led by a nationally recognized caller, held a contest
in the city coliseum. Other nights during the festival there
will be dancing on the mall.

Sports fans have enjoyed the Knoxville Horse and Rid-
ing Club and the Tennessee Valley Kennel Club shows. The
Knoxville Gun Club has sponsored an invitational clay tar-
get championship and the Blue Grass Yacht Club, a water
parade. Hundreds of pleasure craft, decorated by their
owners, have joined the harges carrying the University of
Tennessee band and the Knoxville Women’s Chorus in a
colorful caravan moving down Fort Loudon Lake, which
flows through Knoxville.

Knoxville children have contributed in many ways to the
Festival. Both Girl Scouts, Boy Scouts, and school students
have prepared displays in the store windows lining the
Promenade. Costumes used in past plays presented by the
Children’s Carousel have been displayed on the Promen-
ade. Many of the schools hold open house during the fes-
tival and have set up children’s art exhibits showing the art
work of the city elementary school students, the county ele-
mentary schools. city junior- and senior-high schools. The
Mall has been transformed into a carnival-like paradise, with
merry-go-rounds. balloons. monkeys. clowns, jugglers, and

puppet shows.

ON THE AESTHETIC SIDE. there is always the magnificent
backdrop of the spcctacular dogwood, which must be
seen to be believed. There are five marked trails, each sev-
eral miles long, through lovely residential areas. Several of
the trails are lighted each evening, with floodlights directed

Folk Dances for Today

at masses of bloom and at the colorful azaleas beneath tln
trees. The blossoms appear to be suspendcd against the dark
sky. a breathtaking sight. A number of private gardens arc
opened for walking tours. showing varieties of tulips. daf-
fodils. azaleas. and wildflowers nestling under the lacy can-
opy of the dogwood. Also open for walking tours arc the
gardens of thc Knoxville Iron Company, boasting thousands
and thousands of tulips and daffodils.

The Frank H. McClung Museum and the Dulin Art Gal-

lery have sponsored festival shows and the art classes from
the University of Tennessee were transferred outdoors to
the Mall during the festival. Spectators and shoppers have
even Spotted themselves in some of the paintings!

The Southern Highland Handicraft Guild, composed of
Tennesseans as well as residents of four or five surround-
ing states, has presented the arts, crafts, furniture, dolls and
fabrics that members have designed and made themselves.
Store windows on the Promenade have put on displays of

Knoxville authors, coin and doll collections. Foreign ex-
change students dancing and singing in their native cos-
tumes have made International Day on the Mall a colorful
affair.

Three historical attractions are also part of the festival
scene. Blount Mansion, built in 1790 for the governor of
the territory south of the Ohio River. is a lovely white
frame home authentically restored and furnished. Bleak
House. the Confederate Memorial Hall, is a striking fifteen-
room antebellum mansion, headquarters for General James
Longstreet during the “Siege of Knoxville,” November 1863.
Ramsey House, built in 1797 by English architect Thomas
Hope. has also been completely restored and authentically
furnished.

The city of Knoxville is nestled in the rich Tennessee Val-
ley with its many lakes. The valley has always been a play-
ground for tourists. as has the neighboring Great Smoky
Mountain National Park, the most visited National Park
in 1961. The people of Knoxville are proud of their city,
their community. and their arts festival and hope to receive
visitors from every state at the time when Knoxvillc has
donned her loveliest dress. 

 

Pact-Home, fishermen rowing their

-JO0Nc KIM, director of the Na-

tional Recreation Association of
Korea, reports a project to update the
country’s ancient folk dances which the
association felt had become separated
from the life of the ordinary pe0ple.
The association decided to revise the
traditional dances, hoping that they
would be closer to the life of people
today. The music was taken from folk-

FEBRUARY, 1963

songs and traditional tunes and dances
were revised that could be danced by
all age groups. The thirteen revised
dances were presented to an audience
of four thousand last summer. Thesc
included:

Pori T’ajak, representing the barley
harvest.

Y'aranszi, fitted to a folk song about a
squirrel popular with Korean children.

boat.

7"aep’yong-ga, symbolizing world
peace.

Uakto-ga, based on a studcnts’ rebcl
song popular during the resistance
against Japan 1905-45.

Nongak, a new version of an ancient
dance enjoyed by Korean farmers for
many years.

63

 

.4 “sense of wonder at the turn of the seasons and the miracle of life.”

REYNOLD E. CARLSON
LITTLE LESS

A than a hun-

drcd years ago the
United States real-
ized for the first
time that some of
its outdoor re-
sources should be
preserved and the national park idea
was born. As far as we know, our nation
was the first in history to set aside out-
standing scenic, scientific, and historical
treasures for the enjoyment and inspira-
tion of all its people. This idea, since
adopted by many other countries, should
rank high among America’s contribu-
tions to the world. Today, millions of
Americans seek the out-of-doors for rec-
reation. Our high income, no doubt, has
influenced this surge to natural lands.

 

 

MR. CARLSON is professor of recreation
at Indiana University. This material is
adapted from a speech delivered at the
National Rural Family Recreation Sem-
inar at the Thor Research Center for

Better Farm Living at Huntley, Illinois,
dugust I962.

64

It has been said that not until man was
sccure from hunger could he turn to the
out-of-doors for reasons other than sur-
vival.

Although far more study of the rec-
reation pursuits of rural dwellers is nec-
essary to give us an understanding of
their recreation patterns, we have gen-
crally assumed that, for the farm resi-
dent. opportunities for the enjoyment of
nature have always been available. This
assumption is not necessarily true. The
very closcness of natural environment
and the hard work associated with it
may alter or dull the sense of apprecia-
tion. You may recall the classic story
of the city visitors who were enjoying
a beautiful view across a field. One of
them remarked to a farmer cutting his
hay how fortunate he was to have such
beauty always at hand. The farmer’s
reply was, “If you had to work from
dawn to dark fighting the weeds and in-
sects. and if you had your hay ruined
by rain at the wrong time or lost your
crops because of drought, you might not
see anything beautiful in the field.”

 

We know that this point of view,
though not unusual, is not the opinion
of all rural dwellers. We find also the
man who works the soil appreciatively
and who loves the land with an intensity
and depth of feeling undreamed of by
city visitors. His appreciation, however,
is apt to be in a different category from
that of his city cousin. To him, a pro-
ductive well-cultivated field may be the
most beautiful view imaginable. He may
look at the Grand Canyon not as a mag-
nificent revelation of eons of action by
earth’s gigantic and awe-inspiring forces
but as a horrible example of land laid
waste by erosion. He may see wilder-
ness not as a place for enjoyment and
renewal of the human spirit but either
as unproductive land or as an enemy to
be conquered, just as the pioneers con-
quered the vast lands of the frontier,
turning them into farms. This attitude,
appropriate to a time in history when
land was ahundant and when seemingly
interminable wildlands stretched to the
west, is dangerous today. Few wilder-
ness lands remain; and all Americans,
rural and urban, must be made to real-
ize their value and their fragility.

Second, a man who lives on a farm
does not necessarily have opportunities
for enjoyment of natural areas. Wild-
life and native trees and plants are some-
times well nigh eliminated in the culti-
vated fields. Too often no provision has
heen made in rural arcas for the preser-
vation of wildlife habitats, woods, and,
streams; or, if there are oases of natural
lands among the cultivated fields, they
may be valued for their potential timber
rather than for enjoyment. Commercial
timberlands, however, may also serve
as recreation resources, a fact which the
United States Forest Service has demon-
strated in its management of forest land.
The multiple-use concept, to which the
Forest Service adheres, holds that sev-
eral types of use, such as timber man-
agement, watershed protection, wildlife
management, and recreation, may take
place on the same piece of land.

It would seem then, that there are two
difficulties which sometimes lie in the
way of nature recreation among rural
dwellers: first. the attitude of the rural
people themselves and, second, the lack

RECREATION

nf accessible natural areas. What can be
lone to resolve these difficulties?

In our concern for the development
if an attitude favorable toward nature
'ecreation, we are interested in the ways
n which the lives of rural people can
)e enriched through the enjoyment of
1ature. I believe that most of us are
oorn with interest in and curiosity about
)ur natural world. Observe young chil-
dren in their avid pursuit of frogs or
insects and notice their quickness to ob-
serve and their urge to collect. Unfor-
tunately, we adults often do little to en-
courage and nurture this interest. Too
frequently, our own natural interest has
been dulledrby the passing years. We

have been conditioned as we grow older
to perceive and enjoy certain aspects of
life to the exclusion of other aspects.
This variability in sensitivity applies to
music and the arts as well as to nature.

HOW DO perccptive ability and aes-
thetic appreciations develop? \Vhy
do some peOple look at the world with
an artist’s eye and others with the eye
of the scientist? Why do some pe0ple
attain a sense of oneness with nature,
purpose, order, and beauty that reflect
the face of God? Certainly the rural
dweller, particularly he who works with
the production of the world’s food, must
have some sense of wonder and awe at

——"l

the turn of the seasons and the miratl‘r
oflifc.

We know that perception can be de~
veloperl. Have you noticed the growth
of perceptive ability in a person who be-
gins photographing in color or tries to
paint? Suddcnly color takes on a new
meaning. A clcar day with white cum-
ulus clouds stirs him to enthusiasm. He
noticcs the shapes and patterns of nat-
ural things and attempts to catch on film
a composition that will epitomize the
beauty of tllc world about him. By be-
coming aware of beauty, he adds greatly
to the satisfaction he attains from the
out-of-doors. Simple experiences, sim-
ple things, small items of rural enjoy-

THE KEY TO NATURE

Perception adds a new dimension to learning about the out-of—doors . . .

sensitivity to the simple things in,

and the beauty of, nature adds richness to living . . .

I—ummw

Hm

 

ment shows perceptivity—frost on the
window pane, the smell of earth after
rain—show the sensitivity which is a
key to enjoyment of the outdoors.

Perception is also related to knowl-
edge and understanding. To be able to
recognize the common trees, mammals,
hirds. and constellations gives us a
sense of heing at home in our environ-
ment. of being surrounded hy friends.
Mere recognition, however, important
as it may be. is not enough—just as it
is not enough to know nothing about
people you meet except their names.

The unending quest to understand life
processes and the interrelatedness of the
living and the nonliving adds a new di-
mension to outdoor knowledge. When
we hecome aware of the ecological rela-
tions of living things to each other and
to soil. climate, and moisture we see
life as a complicated web of relation-
ships. The processes of growth and de-
velopment. viewed historically through
the centuries. also provide a study which
opens up new understandings of life.
Books. such as Bates’ The Forest and
(lie Sea and Watts’ Reading (lie Lami-
scapc, present this point of view. 0h-
scrvation in the out-of-doors with the
help of the many good books today
makes possible self-instruction by any-
one with suflicient interest.

FOR THOSE OF US who are concerned
with recreation. there is another
approach to the development of percep-
tion. This hinges on outdoor-related
skills and proficicncies. l have for some
years been interested in gem polishing.
This interest has led me on rockhound
trips to many parts of America. The
hobhy has not only given me. the satis-
faction of finding materials but has
deepened my interest in the whole field
of geology and. in a limited way. in
chemistry. My enjoyment and apprc-
ciation of my findings has been tremen-
dously heightened through my attempts
to polish some of the stones. Creating a
gem with luster and beauty from a piece
of raw material gives one a new respect
for his mcdium.

An appreciation of wood-wits hard-
ness, grain, and color—is impressed
upon those who carve a thing of beauty.
If you hand rub a piece of carved wood.
you have a sense of its beauty you can-
not gain in any other way. Just as one

66

who plays the violin generally has a
greater enjoyment and understanding
of violin music, one who works with the
materials of nature has a keener appre-
ciation. It follows that one of the ave-
nues to nature enjoyment involves the
development of skills in handling natur-
al materials—using native clay in ce-
ramics or wild honeysuckle in basket-
making; making collections and dis-
plays; painting. sketching, and model-
ing the objects and scenes in a natural
area; making and maintaining aquaria.
terraria, and vivaria; keeping note-
books of one's observations; making
star charts; and a thousand other ac-
tivities related to nature.

We must recognize that enjoyment of
the natural environment is dependent
upon the availability of resources with
variety and beauty. Most of our natural
lands, particularly those that are fed-
erally owned. are in the \Vest; and the
dense populations of other sections of
the country have little access to such
lands. Because of the great upsurge
in interest in outdoor recreation. the
lands near concentrations of population
are being greatly overused. We need
more woodlands, beaches. parks. sanc-
tuaries, lakes. and streams set aside for
public use. Farmers know that over-
grazing land can destroy it; overusing a
campground or picnic spot can be equal-
ly destructive. The importance of set-
ting aside natural lands now, before our
fast—growing population causes their
cannot he
stressed too strongly or too often. The
rural resident needs these lands just as
much as the city resident.

complete disappearance,

County. state. and federal units of
govermnent can accomplish a great deal
in providing land. There is much, too,
that private landholders can do. Larger
lumber companies have helped to allevi-
ate the shortage of recreation lands by
opening their holdings to public use.
lmlivirlual farmers can also help. Suh-
marginal lands can be returned to their
natural condition. Odd corners can be
left unplowed. Shrubs can be planted
to attract birds and other wildlife. Ponds
can be built to serve not only farm pur-
poses but also to provide fishing and
attract migratory wildfowl. Farm own-
crs who open such lands to the puhlic
sometimes find that they can make more

money through modest charges than

they could have made had they at-
tempted to cultivate the land. (See
RECREATION, December I962.)

To HELP rural families enjoy nature

opportunities. park authoritieG
should make special efforts to reach
rural groups and to encourage them to
participate in interpretive programs.
There should be opportunities to visit
museums, to walk on self-guiding nature
trails. to go on field trips led by ex-
perienced naturalists. and to see trail-
side interpretive exhibits.

The many clubs and associations re-
lated to the out-of-doors can contribute
to rural life by encouraging member-
ship among rural families. A great deal
can be done hy youth-serving agencies.
particularly 4-H. in developing a con-
sciousness of the value of the natural en-
vironment. Although some of the em-
phasis in youth programs is on projects
of economic value, there is ample room
for learning about natural phenomena
without regard for its relevance to earn-
ing a living. Schools. especially in their
outdoor education programs, can also
make significant coutrihntions llcre.

Every rural dweller is concerned with
the conservation of natural resources.
Upon wise use depends our very exist-
ence as a nation. Although the produc-
tion of food must have priority in any
plan of land use, any adequate concept
of conServation must also include the
use related to recreation. The great
masses of people using our land re-
sources create serious problems of mis-
use. vandalism. and litter—-—all evidences
of lack of respect for natural resources.
Is there any answer to these problems
more effective than the development of
an understanding and appreciation of
the natural environment on the part of
the users of recreation lands? Whether
we approach conservation from the
economic or the social point of view, we
know that understanding of life princi-
plcs is basic to conservation practices.
With increased understanding, we can
expect increased participation in those
types of outdoor recreation that will
place least strain upon our resources.

WHAT MAY we do to enhance the
satisfactions of rural people

through nature recreation? we should:
Continued on Page 10;l

RECREATION

   

BASIC

CONCEPTS 0F AGING

Society’s attitudes are reflecth in
stereotyped phrases which deveIOp and
are passed on. from one person to an-
other. All of us are familiar with “old
people are just like children,” “you can’t
tcach an old dog new tricks,” “the old
boy is slowing up,” “cute little old lady.”
From gerontological knowiedge and re-
search the following ideas and concepts
hare emerged:

Aging is universal. It is common
° to every person and not peculiar
to a small portion of the population.

2.

"growing old” is spoken of with fear.

Aging is normal. “Growing up”
is spoken of with respect while

This fear develops from a picture of ag-
ing which involves physical illness, loss
of faculties, living in the past.

Aging is variable. The way in

° which each person ages is unique.

It is now known that the state of a per-
son’s well-being in the later years de-
velops from his personal life pattern of
work or activity, rest, human associa-
tion, diet, exercise, and mental attitude.
People’s reaction to life’s experiences
vary. lt is necessary to recognize that
most people draw their picture of the
aging process or being aged from those
persons who live around them, without
realizing that aging is variable and no
two persons will react physically, so-
cially, or emotionally in the same way.

4 Dying is normal and inevitable.
° As a society, it has been difficult
to accept dying as a normal part of life
as birth is accepted as a normal part of
life. The idea that a full and satisfying
life can be lived, death can be antiei-

 

Reprinted with permission from Centers
for Older People, a report of the Na-
tional Council on the Aging, 1962.

FEBRUARY, 1963

pated and prepared for so that it ean
become a meaningful closure of life, is
a new idea difficult for many persons to
accept.

Aging and illness are not neces-
° sarily coincidental. Many per-
sons including some of the medical pro-
fession have accepted the stereotype that
ailments and ills are the natural accom-
paniment of old age. A new concept is
being recognized now which points up
the difference between the physical con-
sequences of age per se and illness. This
imposes greater individual responsibil-
ity to prepare for a healthy old age
through improved living habits in the
early and middle years.

6 Older people represent three gen-
. erations. The age group known as
“aging” covers from 65 years to 112
years. ln no other stage of life is a forty-
year age span lumped into one age cate-
gory. This group really represents at
least two. and frequently three, genera-
tions. Therefore. it is necessary to rec-
ognize that the characteristics of the
younger-older groups may be different
from the middle-older or the older-older
groups. More work needs to be done
to identify the variable factors between
these three stages of aging. Such iden-
tification of group characteristics at
each stage does not nullify the individ-
ual variations in aging. There will al-
ways be some vigorous, mature. serene,
active persons of ninety-four years as
well as some physically frail, emotion-
ally depressed, socially inactive persons
of sixty-five years.

Older people can and do learn.

° The modern literature in geron-
tology makes clear that the capacity of
older people to learn is not necessarily
diminished. The learning patterns may
change and differ from the learning pat-

terns of children. The speed of learning
may be slowed but the learning may
have a deeper value. The capacity to
learn new things and to relearn old
things is still great and vital.

8 Older people can and do change.
° One of the existing stereotypes is
that older people will not change. This
persists despite the frequent demand for
readjustment from older people in giv-
ing up a job, physical environment and
way of life of many years’ standing. A
transfer into a smaller house, a different
community, a home for the aged or the
home of a daughter or son demands
great capacity for adjustment.

9 Older people want to remain self-
. directing. Expressions such as
“older people are just like children. they
never want to decide anything for them-
selves” indicate miseonceptions about
older people. On the contrary. main-
taining self-direction as long as possible
is usually their chief desire and a major
factor in continuing self-respect. It is
now understood than any sound plan for
change in the life of the older person
must be kept insofar as possible under
his own control. Even when complete
control of decisions about his life is not
possible. his maximum participation in
decision-making should be sought.

1 .

persons is often colored by misconcep-
tions. which affects the response. One
common tendency is to assume that
physical limitations and handicaps im-
ply total inadequacy. It needs to be
recognized that the requirement for
physical help to cross the street does not
imply that the person does not know
where he is going. Where it is appre-
ciated that each older person is a living,
vital, interesting being with whom asso-

Older people are vital human
beings. The approach to older

ciation can be rewarding and beneficial,
irrespective of the state of physical be-
ing or life circumstances. a positive re-
sponse can be anticipated. Clarity of
mind is aided by the constant use of the
mental faculties in learning new things
and in maintaining social relationships
with others. Where there is a vital life
in the present, there is small need to live
in the past. #

67

“You GOTTA
accentuate
the positive, elimi-
nate the negative,
latch on to the
affirmative, and
don’t mess with
Mr. In-Between.”
So go the lyrics of a ballad popular a
few seasons back. So, also, goes the
thought in the planning, preparation,
promotion, and presentation for one or
a whole series of community concerts.
It becomes sort of a do-it-yourself proj-
ect for those undertaking this program.

 

But, where to begin? Someone, some-
where, once said there are a million be-
ginningsu-a million starts—and every
one wrong. How true this is with con-
cert giving! Yet, when the show is on
the road, the headaches and the heart-
aches, the frustrations and difficulties
with the above Four P’s become the
foundation and basis of achievement
and success.

First off, why worry through the or-
deal of presenting community concert
programs at all? Let those who will,
challcnge the verhiage here. Aftcr over
twenty years of giving free public con-

 

DR. BERGMANN is director of music [or
the Chicago Park District.

certs in Chicago, a city claiming a pop-
ulation of nearly four million pe0ple,
the words “worry through the ordeal”
still aptly describe the process from
planning through presentation. In the
Chicago Park District, the objective is
to spread the talents of the available
professional and trained amateur Inu-
sicians over a vast area in order that as
many people as possible will benefit
therefrom. These concert programs do
not include those presented each sum-
mer at the bandshell in Grant Park
where a recognized symphony orches-

tra, the Grant Park Symphony Orches-
tra, is maintained, and only the finest
artists are privileged to appear. The
concerts discussed here are those pre-
sented in local areas and before strictly
community audiences.

The location, or site, for a public out-
door concert program must he recog-
nized as an important consideration. Is
the location easily accessible to public
transportation? Is electric current avail-
able for lighting and amplification if

necessary? Are toilct facilities close
by? Arc drinking fountains near? Even
though there is no admission charge,
every thought must be directed toward
the listeners’ comfort and pleasure. Con-
cert locations should always be kept as

clean as the vicissitudes of nature per-
mit. In the selection of a site, some
thought also should be given to the pro-
tection of the musicians, their instru-
ments, and the listeners in case of
rain. Of course, the selection of a con-
cert site must include an audience, with-
out which even the finest talent goes
begging. It is unfair and downright
thoughtless to ask musicians, either pro-
fessional or amateur, to perform before
only a handful of persons. By virtue of
their desire to give of themselves and
their talent, the musicians are entitled
to the best audience a community can

muster.

With the selection of a location out
of the way, the next consideration is thc
kind of music talent available and the
number of programs to be presented.
In Chicago’s summer series of outdoor
concert programs, we plan one program
for a specific day and time each week
for eight wecks. By an arrangement
with thc Musician’s Union, the Chicago
Park District is able to prcscnt many
band concerts. Usually each hand con-
sists of twenty-nine playcrs and a con-
doctor. The program content may range
from contcmporary through modern,
jazz, 0pcra, romantic, and classical com-
positions, depending upon the tastes of

LET THERE BE MUSIC

How to plan, prepare,
promote, and present a
community concert

WILLIAM BERGMANN

 

Aeolian Choral Association presents a mid-summer’s night concert.

RECREATION

the various conductors, and often upon
the predominant nationalities of those
living in a given community.

These band concerts are provided by
the Musicians’ Union through a grant
from the Performance Trust Funds of
the American phonograph industry,
which is an extension of public service
originatcd by the American Federation
of Musicians through its Recording and
Transportation Funds. The bandsmen
furnished by the union are professional
people who are paid for their services
through thc union from the Perform-
ance Trust Fund. These programs are
usually of two hours in duration with an
intermission about half way through.

The variety and choral-type program
is another phase of the park district’s
concert presentation. Usually, those
participating in these programs are not
professional musicians in the full sense
of the word. They are, rather, extremely
talented nonprofessionals, with a strong
desire to render a public service. Many
months before the concert season, a let-
ter is sent to the chorus groups in indus-
try and transportation, the outstanding
church choirs, to the music schools, and
to various groups which have no busi-
ness or religious afiiliation per se, but
exist merely because of an innate urge
and desire to sing together. Of course,
all the groups addressed do not respond
and some are not able to participate.
However, the groups which do not par-
ticipate are not necessarily disinter-
ested. More particularly, many choral
organizations disband for the summer
and activity must, therefore, be sched-
uled only from September through June.
Without a doubt this is true throughout
the country. However, there are usually
a sufficient number of groups available
to make the vocal feature of summer
concerts a valued asset and addition.

The choral people come of their own
volition. They like to sing and are sin-
cerely interested in rendering a service.
They receive no remuneration, although
some industrial choruses appear with
the sanction and blessing of the com-
panies they represent, which often pro
vide bus transportation from company
headquarters to the concert location and
return. This, indeed, is cooperation of
the highest order.

In the Chicago Park District, the Out-
door Community Concerts are present-

FEBRUARY, 1963

ed on Sunday, Tuesday, Wednesday,
Thursday, and Friday nights during
July and August. On Wednesday and
Friday evenings a separate program is
presented at each of two locations, mak-
ing a total number of seven different
programs each week. Generally, there
are about ten additional programs
scheduled for what, in theater parlance,

is called one-night stands. These may
be either choral or instrumental.

UBLICITY spotlights the entire series.
This takes the form of advance 110-
tices to the daily and community papers
on each program in the entire series.
The park district’s public-relations de-
partment prepares and handles distribu-
tion of press releases. However, the de-
tails concerning what, who, when,
where, and items on any soloist who is
to appear must be prepared before any
releases are possible. Most papers are
interested in the program content for
each concert and many will publish this
in their columns, often with pictures.

For many years nothing was distrib-
uted to the local audiences, but in the
summer of 1961 programs were pre-
pared for each concert and handed out.
Such keen interest and delight was ex-
hibited that this became a regular fea-
ture in all future concert programs.
This, naturally, increases the many
problems to be resolved when preparing
for the 'concerts, but the results are
worth the additional effort.

Posters and brochures, too, must also
be prepared and readied for distribu-
tion at least several weeks in advance of
the first concert date. These should be
kept simple, yet attractive as possible,
printed, mimeographed, or done by
hand. At a glance, John  Public must
become aware an event will take place
in a designated area, on a certain date,
and at a specific time.

‘This leaves the last of the Four P's,
presentation, to be considered. Let’s
check to assure ourselves nothing has
been left undone in our planning, prep-
aration, and promotion. The jumbled
ideas have been gathered and harnessed
H—planning. Paperwork, programs,
posters, news items, booking the musi-
cians—-—preparation. The community is
alerted—promotion.

Now, wait just one cotton-picking
moment. Have all the details been con-

HROUGH MUSIC a child enters
into a world of beauty, ex-
presses his inmost self, tastes the
joy of creating, widens his sympa-

thies, develops his mind, soothes

and refines his spirit, and adds grace
to his body—National Child Wel-
fare Association.

 

sidered, assenlbled, worked out to the
most minute detail? Is the stage, port-
able or natural, up and ready? Has the
PA equipment bcen rechecked to assure
no last-minute sound problem? Are the
lights-—floods, tower lights, or overhead
-—-ready? Band and choral people re-
quire this if the program continues af-
ter dark, and too much strcss cannot be
placed upon an adequate lighting setup.
Is a piano available, and, what’s more,
in tune? Will you require any assist-
ance from the local police?

If you use an MC, or announcer, to
adequately enhance the program, has
he becn alerted? Is he prepared; that
is, has there been any research in con-
nection with the various compositions
and composers which make up the pro-
gram? Outdoor community audiences,
unlike the more devoted concert-hall
habitues, are not too much concerned
with acadcmic detail. Their interest
should be aroused and consequently re-
tained by short, intimate anecdotes,
such as the one about Brahms being un-
married, yet giving the world a lullaby
to which most babies have been cra-
dled; or the item on Gershwin, who up
to the age of sixteen, like many teen-
agers today, considered music to be for
“Sissies”; or pcrhaps Wagner, who
never learned to play any instrument,
or his political rebellion and subsequent
exile; and so on. It is not a question of
talking down to a community audience;'
rather, it is a calculated effort toward
wresting attention in an outdoor area
from a current heat wave, a determined
mosquito, the desecrations of a feath-
ered “music lover,” or even noisy
youngsters and centering it upon the
music which the musicans are about to
render.

This, then, is presentation. This, then,
becomes the result of all the headaches,
heartaches, frustrations, and difliculties
which have been constant and dogmatic
companions and bedfellows from plan-
ning through presentation. #

69

RALPH ANDREWS

STAFF RELATIONS

0 SAY, or even to imply, that the
T way to bring about desirable staff
relationships is through direct
application of administrative force or
influence is an admission of lack of faith
in oue’s associates and of failure in the
usage of good psychological and human
relations skills and techniques. It re-
flects a surrender of reason, of moral
suasion. and of certain of the higher
qualities of leadership. We must he
fully committed to the rules of reason,
the laws of logic, an earnest concern for
the needs of others, and to the practice
of helping to identify the needs and
wishes of the individual staff person
with those of the group. the community.
and the state.

Civen administrative power, it may
be possible to cow the employee or, by
a selective and climinative process, to
gather in an agency only those who will,
more or less willingly. submit to a plan
of operation dictated by higher author-
ity. It is not difficult to instruct or to
direct, by rote, the assignment of speci-
fic detail and to govern by fear when the
fear of job tenure is used as a club. How-
ever, in this way, the degree and amount
of job achievement will he undesirahly
limited. Joh fear should be employed
only as a last resort, if at all.

The North Carolina Recreation Com-
mission tries to operate under the sin-
cere and wholly defendahle assumption:
that one of the supreme arts of the ad-
ministrator is to help every staff member
to enjoy the opportunity for individual.
creative. job eXpression, while on the
job. When this is accomplished, pro-
duction is increased, progress is more
nearly assured and is interrupted with
less plateaus and recessions.

ARBITRARY administrative controls
can only breed frustration and
hate. They make it difficult for staff per-

sonnel, working under such a plan, to
he loyal to the administrator and even
to the purposes of the agency. They only
create a situation in which might makes
right and the perspective of true justice
tends to be lost. It becomes a process of
restraint, rather than of guidance or of
inspiration to do more than is required.
It may break but cannot uplift the mor-
ale and spirit of a staff. It implies that
force is the factor that must be depended
upon when, at the same time, it is obvi-
ous that such an attitude in recreation
field work would ruin the effectiveness
of advisory or operational personnel.

ln the end. a policy of administra-
tion by regulation and by force. or a
practice of trying to impose a specific
type of staff relationship, not only un-
naturally and undesirably conditions
the staff personnel but it also has a
direct and unfortunate effect upon the
personal. creative potential of the ad-
ministrator who attempts to use it.

The only conclusion to he reached,
therefore. is as simple as this: The best
policy (whether in or out of an adminis-
trative situation) when dealing with
human beings is to he humane, to allow
each staff member the dignity and op-
portunities of creative expression right
in his job, to lead rather than to drive.
to inspire with ambition and the urge
to achieve common purposes rather
than to control or to direct by fear or
fiat. We must credit others with all of
the human, creative urges for accom-
plislnnent with which we ourselves wish
to be credited. We must do unto others
as we would have them do unto us. \Ve
must use all of the human drives and
purposes on the job. for the job of
service to our fellows. #

 

MR. ANDREWS is director of the North
Carolina Recreation Commission. This
materiai evolved from. a discussion at
a stag meeting of the commission.

RECREATION

 

. Io ‘{ .— 
'l _

"1.

Icmce [SrRec‘rem/‘io

o

J 1

2. Drama Is Recreation
3. Dance Is Recreation

. Music Is Recreation -

 

n.

 
 

A Report on Dance in Public Recreation
Prepared by the Program Department
of the National Recreation Association
Virginia Musselman
Siebolt H. Frieswyk

The Art of Dancing . . . is a commendable and rare
Quality fit for young Gentlemen, if opportunely and civ-
illy used. . . . This Art has been anciently handled . . .
and much commends it to be Excellent for Recreation
. . . making the body active and strong, graceful in de-

portment, and a quality very much beseeming a Gentle-

man.

JOHN PLAYFORD
The English Dancing Master, 1651

 

Let us dance more. but let us win more beauty in. our
dancing as in our lives——for it is by the substitution of
beauty for ugliness, in the intangible things as well as
the visible, that we dance a little nearer to happiness and

per fectiou.

ANNA PAVLOVA

Published by
National Recreation Association 0 8 West Eighth Street 0 New York 11, N. Y.

Joseph Prendergast, Executive Director
Affiliated with The National Cultural Center, Washington, D. C.

DANCE IS RECREATION

HAT IS the picture of dance in
W community recreation pro-

grams today? The results of
several recent inquiries are as challeng-
ing and perplexing as the first viewing
of a modern abstract painting. Much is
to be desired; at the same time, a chal-
lenge is inescapable. However, one fact
is clear. Dance continues to hold its
leading position as one of the most po-
tent participant attractions in the whole
gamut of recreational activities.

The 196] Recreation and Park Year-
book, published by the National Recrea-
tion Association, shows that the number
of public recreation agencies reporting

participation in various dance activities
has doubled or trebled since the 1956
Yearbook. This estimate is based prac-
tically on the same number of returns
for both Yearbooks. There were no de-
creases indicated. Creative rhythms,
ballet, and modern dance have reached
new dimensions; square dancing is on
the upswing; and national folk dances
have become a more vital part of recrea-
tion programs during the past decade.
The ever-present and on-going social
forms of dance activity are also more
prevalent than ever before.

Perhaps the most important trend is
the growing emphasis upon the dance

Dance activities in public recreation agencies more than doubled since 1956. Below, modern dance class, Oakland, California.

 

as a form of art, and the accompanying
formation of “structured” programing;
for example, provision for progressive
opportunities to participate in dance at
various levels and on a scheduled basis.
This new and enlarged concept of the
role in recreation has already been put
into effect in a number of thc larger
recreation systems and is beginning
to take root in departments serving
medium-sized p0pulation areas. The
larger departments offer Opportunities
to participate in several difl'erent types
of dance activities: social, square, folk,
creative rhythms, modern dance, ballet,
tap. elog. character dances, dance com-
bined with other performing arts. and
dance festivals.

It is characteristic of smaller depart-
ments, however, to emphasize combina-
tions of certain types of dance: for ex-
ample. square and ballroom. folk and
square, or other possible combinations.
Recreation agencies serving ponulations
of twenty thousand or lcss usually pro-
vide limited opportunities because of a
lack of available leadership.

7 I ‘IIE RETURNS of the National Cultural

Center questionnaire returned by
NRAis Associates and Afliliates show
the range of possible combinations.

Ballet Square
Ballroom or Social Social
Block Dances Novelty
Children’s Rhythmic Old-time
Cannes Pageants
Clog Playground Dancing
Contests and Festivals

Precision Marching
and Dancing Chorus

Interpretative Jazz
Latin-A merican

Mixers Recitals

Modern liecord Hops

Creative Rhythms Revues

Films (dance) Study of Dance

Folk Talent or

Folk-Dance Camps Variety Shows
Hawaiian Tap

Indian Dance Activities
Interpretative for the Handicapped
Round

In addition to recognized dance
forms, a growing number of rclated
physical activities are hased on free and
patterned responsc to music. A former
All-American football star now a recre-
ation director calls his program for

housewives “rhythmical relaxation.”

Such programs, of course, are as old as
recreation itself. The more experienced
and imaginative rhythmic-exercise pro-
grams include dance, as well, in the
stricter sense of the term. The combina-
tion of conditioning and dance move-
ment is natural and serves the purpose
of making the experience more enjoy-
ahle, imaginative, and useful.

A SELECTED NUMBER of dance and rec-
reation lcaders were requested by
the NRA to present their views on the
“Role of Dance in Community Recrea-
tion Programs” with Specific reference
to (1) aims and objectives, (2) kinds
of services. (3) leadership, and (4)
facilities and cquipment. Although dif-
ferent opinions were expressed regard-
ing certain aspects of these topics, the
major portion of the responses were in
agreement. A digest of them follows:
AIMS AND OBJECTIVES. The aims and
ohiectives of the recreation dance pro-
grams reported were to provide partici-
pants with opportunities to:
0 Experience a wholesome, construc-
tive, and creative dance activity.
0 Learn group cooperation and indi-
vidual responsibility.
0 Reach an incrcased understanding of
the eulturcs of many people and nations.
0 Move in space—walk, run, leap. hop.
jump. et cetera.
0 Develop poise. skill, strength. and
agility.
0 Learn and practice etiquette and so-
cially acceptahlc behavior.
0 Appreciate more fully music and
dance forms and styles as works of art.
Aims and objectives of leaders in-
cluded opportunities to:
o Relate the (lance program to other
arts including the folk crafts and physi-
cal activities and Sports where appropri-
ate.
0 Arrange for participation in commu-
nity celehrations, festivals, and other
observations, thereby contributing to
better communities and neighborhoods.
0 Discover and guide talented individ-
uals into proper channels.
0 Train. leaders through cooperative

workshops, conferences, and demonstra-
tions.

0 Raise the standard of public taste and
knowledge of dance as a social activity
and art form in recreation.

o Acquire more adequate equipment
and facilities resources for both indoor
and outdoor dance programs.

I Utilize individual and group talents
in constructive and suitable ways.
relationships
with other groups and individuals con-

0 Develop cooperative

cerned with the development of the
dance program on a community-wide
basis.

The question rcgarding the kinds of
services and opportunities drew a wide
range of responses. Conflicting opin-
ions centered mainly about the peren-
nial question of the propriety or im-
propriety of dance instruction in recrea-
tion programs. Strong opposition was
expressed cspecially if or when dance
instruction under public auspices com-
petes unfairly with the private teacher
and studio. Several recreators sup-
ported the de-emphasis of instruction;
several private dance teachers sup-
ported a broad public program of dance
instruction and activity. It was rccog-
nized that the problem of dance instruc-
tion is not confined to public recreation
agency programs but involves educa-
tional, voluntary, and other agencies as
well. In the main, respondents were
willing and eager to have rccreation

agencies include among their services:
I The enriclnnent of community life
and increase of dance appreciation
through participation in civic events,
festivals. conferences, programs for the
ill and handicapped, senior citizens, and
so on.

0 Assistance in interpreting dance to
the community by means of demonstra-
tions, publicity resources available to
recreation agencies, and the presenta-
tion of dance programs of publicly and
privately sponsored individual and
group performances under proper cir-
cumstances at public park and recrea-
tion facilities.

0 Coordination, planning, advice and

provision of information services a hen-
cver possible, and where needs exist.
Those respondents who consider the
learning of dance skills a vital part of
recreation present a graduated and var-
ied program. A composite sample of
the inclusive type of program follows:
0 Free creative dance for boys and
girls, age four to seven years.
0 Introductory folk and simple square
dancing.
0 Introductory modern and ballet for
those especially interested, age seven to
ten years.
0 Emphasis on social forms of music

An important trend is today’s
emphasis on the dance as form of art.
The learning of dance skills

plays an important role in a

child’ s development and is a vital

part of modern recreation programs.

and dance. age elmen to thirteen \f:'dl':-.
0 Social dance. square dancing for
adolescents and young adults.

0 Ballet and modern dance for those
especially interested. age thirteen to
eighteen years.

0 Social, square, and folk. Modern
dance for women. young adults and
adults.

0 Social and square, senior citizens.

RUFESSOR Juana de Laban of Baylor
University stated, "There are sev-

eral levels of growth involved. Children
should have the ‘creative action’ motiva-

 

DANCE IS RECREATION

 

tion. To hit, pull, push, stamp, etcetera.
is basic motion, hence tom-tum and.
rhythm instruments of all sorts will pro-
vide a fine outlet for energy and fan-
tasy. You can instill the rudiments of
music as well by both producing sounds
and pitches, timhers, and rhythmic
skills which satisfy the ‘doer‘ and the
‘listener.’

“Boys and girls have their favorite
music according to their dain life ex-
periences. It should be noted here that
they need careful guidance. It is the

youngster who will guide us in thc
choice of music, and then we must find

Requirements of folks of all ages are most often
satisfied by square and social dancing.
In Los Angeles, more than 150 square dances

are held weekly at the recreation centers.

 

Children should have the opportunity
to experience free creative rhythms. They
discover for themselves, by creative

and spontaneous movement, a feeling for the

 

dance and an understanding and appreciation of it.

Native folk dances help in the '
understanding of other peoples and ‘
their cultures. This Creek folk dancJ
is performed by a Boy Scout

troop in Tarpon Springs, Florida. |

 

a way to enlarge his love of music and
movement by departing from what is
familiar to him and leading him slowly
toward unknown horizons. This is not
easy and continually varies with differ-
ent groups of youngsters. The leaders
may find that every new course needs
a new approach; at least, it will be var-
ied in progression and content proce-
dure. Music may be identical as to se-
lections used, but the sequence in prac-
tice for experimentation might have to
be changed.

“Finally there are the older groups
who have listened and heard more mu-
sic in their daily life. Their require-
ments are based not necessarily on
actual experience with music, but in
stimulating them to try new avenues or
departing from the generally known.
This represents other problems. How-
ever, music is unique and universal and
is always an invitation for moving.
Here is the real challenge to encourage
groups to move with imagination. Mu-
sic surely aids in overcoming shyness,
tensions, or other difliculties. The group
present will determine the kind of mu-
sic. The leader should observe for the
‘when’ and ‘how’ of a chance to broaden
the interest in -music and dance. It is a
matter of constant awareness and ob-
servation on the part of the leader that
can bring to his groups new stimuli.
The broad experience of a leader is
necessary to guide any group. Some-
times when called upon, a member of a
group can make a unique contribution.”

In addition, several areas of special
need were mentioned; namely, the need
for dance activities which would have
a special appeal for girls; for more co-
recreational dance activities; and for
more dance activities for ill and handi-
capped and senior citizens.

LEADERSHIP in the minds of the re-
spondents to the questionnaire oc-
cupies a most crucial position in the
dance program because the success of
the program depends upon it. The re-

quirements for effective leadership as
described in the returns were consist-
ently high in all respects. The state-
ments of requirements were emphatic,
and reflected strong feelings on the sub-
ject. A number of the statements which
follow are verbatim quotes.

0 If the dance program is to have qual-
ity, it must have leaders specifically
trained to teach dance, who understand
dance production problems.

0 The function is to lead, not merely
to comply with public demands.

0 More qualified male dance leaders
would be a great boon to recreation.

0 Only professionally trained and ex-
perienced leadership is satisfactory.

0 We need more young people who are
trained as dance leaders.

0 Leaders should be qualified in meth-
ods of instruction, capable of demon-
strating techniques, be able to control
groups and establish continuity of par-
ticipation and program.

0 The dance supervisor should be an
enabler, coordinator, and consultant for
over-all programs of dance activities.
0 Dance specialists in the program
should be required to attend authorized
and accredited training classes where
new techniques and materials are made
available to them.

0 All dance leaders in the recreation
program should be cultured and skill-
ful. An eHicient, conscientious and ded-
icated leader will produce, stimulate
and create an entire new world of ex-
perience. Leaders must be aware of
the over-all community good, and plan
for it. Leadership must be firm and
friendly.

«- Leaders must have the personality
and ability to promote and create an
atmosphere of fun and a desire to par-
ticipate.

«- It is particularly important to have
experienced and qualified leaders for
ballet and modern dance, for here seri-
ous harm can be done to the participant
if wrong instruction methods are used.

DANCE IS RECREATION

 

o The leader must be skilled in, and
have a thorough knowledge of, the fun-
damentals of the dance form engaged
in; experience in recreation situations;
preferably training at the college or uni-
versity level or professional school; an
attitude based on a love for the dance
and people.

Briefly summarized, the foregoing
requirements would indicate in the
words of one respondent that “ust any-
body will not do.”

ANCE in the recreation program, as
Hendrick Van Loon said of the
weather, is, after all, a local affair; but
it is not quite as local as it used to be.
Regional and local traditions, attitudes,
customs, and conditions still determinc
the nature of the community recreation
dance program to a large extent. How-
ever, the exposure of millions of Ameri~
cans to the full spectrum of dance on
film and TV and to a wide variety of
dance records has produced a generally
more knowledgable, receptive, and ap-
preciative public. Borrowing.the ide-
scriptive terms of David Heisman in
The Lonely Crowd, the field of recrea-
tion stands full face before all forms of
dance—“tradition directed” folk and
square ’dan'ce“; "‘“inner-directed” crea-
tive rhythms and modern dance; and
“outer-directed” rock ’n’ roll, the twist,
the Bossa Nova, and what-comes-next.
Administrators and supervisors are
expected, of course, to assist dance
leaders in planning, setting high stand-
ards, and making dance programs a
valuable recreation experience for the
participants. Anything less would rele-
gate the recreation dance program to
a minor and negative role. The sources
of specialized leadership exist mostly
among professional dance teachers,
physical—education teachers who have
had training and experience in dance.
supplemental sources developed
through training and leadership out of
group participation, workshops and the
like, and among school teachers, part of

whose preparation has included train-
ing in simple forms of dances and
rhythms.

ONE DIFFICULT PROBLEM of dance
in recreation arises when dance
instruction under recreation auspices
competes with private instruction. Rec-
reators are particularly conscious of so-
cial needs which dance programs can
assist in meeting; they are also con-
scious of the fact that fuller enjoyment
of an activity requires skills. Private
dance teachers must of necessity regard
dance instruction as a means of liveli-
hood and as a profession. To expect
recreation programs to eliminate in-
struction entirely, however justifiable in
principle, would appear to he both un-
desirable and unrealistic. The freedom
to dance, although not specifically men-
tioned in the Bill of Rights, as likewise
the freedom to sing, play, act, or other-
wise pursue happiness, is comparable to
the freedom of speech, assembly, free-
dom of worship, and the other free-
doms. Perhaps the most bothersome
interpretation and practice of the free-
doms is to provide free lessons. Private
dance teachers frequently offer volun-

 

teer services where there is a recognized
economic need. They object, however,
to extending the free privileges to those
who can afford to pay. There can he no
question that thc interests of private
professional dance teachers who depend
on their instruction activities for a live-
lihood should be respected. There also
can be no question that the private
teachers are not in a position to serve
large areas of need where the construc-
tive social influences of a recreation
dance program are requisite.

The best solution to be sought would
be a mutually advantageous one. The
professional dance educators represent
know-how, talent, and standards. Com-
munity recreation agencies have the re-
sponsibility of providing constructive
opportunities for recreation participa-
tion. Perhaps a niodas vivcndi or a
modus operandi where the problem ex-
ists or where it might occur can be ar-
rived at by the following procedure:
0 Discussing plans for recreation dance
activities with representative leaders in
the dance field, to determine, if possible,
the kind of dance program that would
be mutually helpful.

0 Expanding the “community service”

Social dancing for teenagers ranks high
among the many types of dance
programs sponsored by recreation
departments. Here, an outdoor dance
“under the stars” in

Mount Vernon, New York.

functions already mentioned and which
are apparently non-controversial.

0 Emphasizing certain types of dance
instruction which are not seriously
competitive with private studios.

0 Concentrating on areas of need for
dance activities which are not met by
private teachers or commercial dance
enterprises.

0 Developing a program which raises
the whole level of dance appreciation
in the community by wider participa-
tion and awareness of dance as part of
the cultural life of the community.
There should be ample and attractive
opportunities for all dance groups to
participate in community programs—
such as festivals, pageants and commu-
nity center programs.

A modus vivendi or modas operandi
does, in fact, exist in a number of com-
munities and it would seem likely that
satisfactory solutions can also be found
where they are needed and reasonably
sought. Local conditions will determine
the nature of such arrangements.

SCARCITY 0F LEADERS poses another
problem. How can more qualified
leaders, especially male leaders, be oh-

:ained? Few dance departments, as
compared with drama and music de-
partments, exist in American colleges
and universities. In most instances,
dance is part of physical-education
training. Furthermore, dance does not
occupy the same position as music, art,
and drama in the nation’s secondary
schools; dance performances do not oc-
cupy as strong a position as musical and
'dramatic performances in the concert
world. These conditions contribute to
the comparative scarcity of qualified
dance leadership personnel.

As pointed out by several contribu-
tors to the excellent publication Focus
on Dance 1—4960, prepared by the Na-
tional Section on Dance for the Ameri-
can Association for Health, Physical
Education and Recreation, more train-
ing of leaders is generally needed in
folk, square, creative, and other forms
of dance. Attention is also called in this
useful publication to the lack of oppor-
tunities for beginners to learn dancing.
The more advanced group does not wel-
come beginners, and perhaps under-
standably so. More male teachers would
attract greater participation among
males in the dance. Attention is called
to the many fine opportunities for
leadership training in Focus 1. The
AAHPER has issued several other pub-
lications of great value to recreation

leaders; namely, Focus on Dance 11
(1962); Materials for Teaching Dance:
Volume 1, Modern Dance and Chil-

dren’s Dance and Volume 111, Selected

Visual Aids for Dance.

Would it not be helpful if recreation
agencies organized more basic training

classes under qualified instructors for
the purpose of developing more dance
leaders? For example, leadership train-
ing classes might well be offered in cre—
ative dance, folk dance, square dance,
round dance, or other types of dance.
Qualified staff for these training classes
might be drawn from the private, edu-
cational, or professional dance fields.

Since music is almost always indis-
pensable to dance, the training classes
might well include instruction in music
as it relates to the (lance. Music for
creative rhythmic activity, folk music,
music suitablc for modern dance, classi-
cal music for certain traditional dances
and ballet, popular music and' jazz
would offer limitless areas in which to
explore the relations of musical forms
and styles to dance forms and styles.
The training might also show how dance
may proceed from the simpler forms to
the more complex. However, emphasis
would be placed upon fundamentals.
These fundamentals would relate not
only to dance forms per se, but would
also relate to mental, emotional, and
physical fitness of the participants.

Would it not be possible to select
potential leaders and finance their at-
tendance at already established dance
workshops in order to obtain dance
leadership for the recreation program?
Certainly most recreation dance pro-
grams can be improved and expanded
by developing greater leadership re-
sources.

THE ESSENTIAL FACILITIES and equip-
ment for dance training and ill-
struction referred to in the question-
naire returns are relatively simple. They
included:

0 A room large enough to accommo-
date the participating group comfort-
ably; wood flooring without splinters;
no concrete floors. The room should be
lighted and well ventilated. Community
centers and school rooms are most gen-
erally used for indoors. Gymnasiums
are usually adequate for most dance ac-
tivities. Exercise bars and mirrors are
needed for ballet.
turfed and hard surface, serve as facili-

Play areas, both

ties for an outdoor dance program of
social, square, and folk dancing activi-
ties. Facilities required for dance per-
formances depend on the type and size
of the production. School auditoriums

DANCE IS RECREATION

 

are most frequently used for dance pro-
ductions. Outdoor park and recreation
amphitheaters are also commonly uscd.
Sanitary facilities, storage for costume
scenery and equipment are necessary
for ccrtain dances.

Musical equipment rcgularly men-
tioned in the returns were a piano, a
variable speed record-player, record-
ings, drums and other percussion in-
struments. A dance library of films,
dance literature, and recordings is de-
sirable. Responsibility for record play-
er and recordings was placed upon thc
dance leader. Sound equipment should
be adequate for voice and musical ani-
plification. It was reported that many
amplification systems being used for
dance music are often woefully inade-
quate.

MANY TYPES of dance performances
take place during the year in rec-
reation programs throughout the coun-
try. These types include folk festivals,
modern and ballet dance recitals, dance
demonstrations and exhibitions, waltz
and square-dance presentations, per-
formances which are part of musical
theater in which dance is used.

What goes into the composition of a
dance program which affords the par-
ticipant and the viewer the fullest possi-
ble satisfaction and enjoyment? What
are the points to keep in mind and to
look for in planning a dance perform-
ance? Perhaps foremost of all the re-'
quirements is that the dances themselves
capture the interest and enthusiasm of
the dancers. The dances and their exe-
cution should present challenges in per-
formances which are not insurmount-

able.

easy and routine fail to keep the per-

Dance selections which are too

formers interested; dances which are
too difficult discourage the participants.

Basic unities and contrasts can be
sought in the dances selected or created.
Each dance should have its own mood
and character, sometimes based on

DANCE IS RECREATION

 

themes of stories. Variations in tempo,
the number of dancers required for each
selection, patterns of movement, dy—
namics, and sundry other elements can
all be used to build an exciting perform-
ance both varied and unified. Unity
should not be based on “mere same-
Tedious repetition should he
avoided. Dance programs all too often

ness.”

are too long and monotonous. Careful
timing of the dance numbers is an es-
sential means of securing unity. Too
many slow or fast dances, too many
short or long dances, too many large or
small group dances tend to break down
continuity in the program and become
monotonous. Plan for variety and
change of pace. Moreover, since dance
is movement in space and since spacc
is a curve, larger movements and pat-
terns should be balanced with smaller
movements in space.

Since dance creates images and in-
volves visual perception to a high de-
gree, much can be done to unify the ef-
fects of a dance by clear characteriza-
tions of the dances and pr0per lighting.
In a swan dance, the dancer must l)c a
swan; in a Cossack dance, a Cossack:
and in an American pioneer dance. a
pioneer. A sense of theater is impor-
tant.

Music as a unifying force can set the
mood, the spirit and pattern of move-
mcnt or rhythm and style. A Dutch.
Indian, Mexican, or any other type of
dance should be distinctively and char-
acteristically presented. Not only will
the individual dance possess character.
but the program as a whole will acquire
distinction, also. If the program con-
sists entirely of a demonstration or ex-
hibition of social types of dance, the
same elements of contrast and unity ap-
ply. Such programs have their own ar-
listic and dramatic possibilities.

HE POSSIBILITIES of programs for
dance are limitless and offer bound-
less opportunities for creative activity.

Dance does not have to be limited to
repetitious patterns. For centuries in
most countries throughout the world,
dance has been and is practiced as an
art in which the human body becomes
an instrument of artistic expression.
The trend in recreation programs to-
ward dance as an art, as previously
noted, is most encouraging and deserves
to be cultivated to the fullest extent
possible.

Extensive dance programs in the
recreation program do not happen by
chance. They are the result of interest
and appreciation of dance as a perform-
ing art on the part of the top adminis-
tration of local public and privatc agen-
cies, with the resulting willingness to
provide budget and leadcrship for such
programs. They also depcnd, liowevcr,
upon the degree of puhlic information
and cducation on the dance as an art
medium, with a resulting public support
or lack of support for such programs.
Thc lcvel of public interest and appreci-
atiou can vary, not only in extent but in
degree. No two communities arc exact-
ly alike in their nceds, resourccs, and
levels of cultural interests. This is re-
Hected in the numbcr and typcs of op-
portunities provided for participation
in the dance. (The one common de-
nominator, the one single type of dance
sponsored and conducted in almost ev-
ery community, is the social or ball-
room dance. As a social event rather
than as a dance form, such dance par-
ties might bctter be classified under so-
cial recreation, rather than the perform-
ing arts.)

A BRIEF SYNOPSIS of a fcw reports
will illustrate the scope and di-
versity of dance programs, as well as
the difference in emphasis and points
of view.

Peoria, Illinois. The park and recrea-
tion department places its major dance
emphasis on the teaching of fundamen-
tal skills in ballet and in tap to children

from five to fifteen years old. Classes
meet a half hour a week for twenty-four
weeks, are conducted in four centers
equally distributed throughout the city,
and are limited to six classes per center,
with not more than twenty-five pupils
in any class. Progression in skills in
these two types is provided through a
dance club that meets once a week
throughout the year. Those youngsters
who are ready for and interested in
more advanced classes may enroll in
this club and receive instruction in ad-
vanced ballet, tap, acrobatic, character,
crcative, modern jazz, and other dance
forms. Instruction is free. An annual
dance festival provides a demonstration
for community education and enjoy-

ment, as well as an outlet for self-ex-
pression for the young dancers.

Waukesha, \Viseonsin. The parks
and recreation department builds its
dance program along age interests and
uses school buildings for its classes. It
offers ten scssions of children’s ballet
and tap, on Saturday mornings, with a
fee of $3 for residents, $5 for non-resi-
dcnts. Boys and girls in the fourth,
fifth, and sixth grades may learn square
dancing from 7-8PM every Friday from
the cnd of January to mid-April. Resi-
dents pay $1.50, plus $.10 per session;
non-residcnts $3, plus $.10 per session.
Boys and girls in the seventh, eighth,
and ninth grades may learn social (ball-
room) dancing from 2-3 :30 on Satur-
days for $1.50, plus 3.25 per session for
residents, 33 plus $.25 per session for
non-residents, for a tcn-session course.
They can use their instruction in a re-
cord hop held in a school cafeteria from
7:15-9:15 Friday nights for only $.50
per year. Social dance sessions for
adults run once a week for fifteen weeks,

from 8:30-10PM.

San Diego, California. The park and
recreation department emphasizes bal-
let and folk dancing on an almost pro-
fessional level. lts Junior Civic Ballet

 

 

 

The dance as a performing art cannot reach its full scope if regarded as pri-
marily for females. Hunter College, New York C ity, requires male students
majoring in physical education to take a dance course “for men only.”

is active the year-round and its stand-
ards of training and performance are
high. This group presents many pro-
grams to the public. Its dramatic pres-
cntations are based on fairy tales.

Climate and beautiful outdoor areas
and facilities, plus high standards in
performance and production provide
the people of San Diego with a rich op-
portunity to participate in, or to enjoy
watching, dance programs the year-
round.

Folk dancing is taught on all play-
grounds, and a number of folk dance
organizations and ethnic groups teach
and participate in folk dancing. The
San Diego Folk Dancers give an exhibi-
tion every Sunday in Balboa Park. A
big annual Folk Dance Festival is spon-
sored by the San Diego Elks Club and
all of the public and private folk dance
groups take part in this city-wide festi-
val in Westgate Park. Needless to say,
social dancing is. part of the depart-
ment program but is regarded more as

social recreation than a performing art.
Mount Vernon, Ncw York. The
dance program operated by the depart-
ment of recreation reflects the interests
of the Westchester County community,
a sophisticated suburb of New York.
Classes in ballroom and Latin-Ameri-

can dances are provided for adult
couples. Adult women can enroll in
classes in modern, creative dance;
girls can enroll in modern ballet and
tap classes that operate daily in the
summer and on Saturdays during the
school year. The public is invited to
square dance at City Halli Plaza dur-
ing the summer months. Social dancing
for teenagers goes on at several teen
centers every afternoon after school and
on three evenings a week. Dancing is
also part of the program for a mentally
retarded group that meets monthly. Out-
lets for dance exhibitions and perform-
ances are provided through talent pro-
grams in which junior dance groups
can participate.

Worcester, Massachusetts. The city
encourages its nationality and ethnic
groups to put on city-wide, elaborate,
well-organized folk festivals that are not
only educational, but dramatic and
beautiful as well. The parks and recre-
ation department serves as coordinator
for such festivals, and the city permits
each group to use its big municipal aud-
ilorium for a four-hour period without
charge. The various festivals that may
be provided during a year (Italian,
Polish, Greek, Armenian and Swedish
groups have all participated) include

the particular group’s art, hands-rafts,
food, history, famous people, literature,
and other contributions to our culture,
but folk dancing is always the most
spectacular part of the festival. The
final four-hour production is the annual
showpiece for many organizations,
clubs, classes, and individuals who work
on it for the entire year. Children and
adults are equally involved; a fact that
helps each nationality group preserve
its cultural heritage without antagoniz-
ing or losing the interest of its younger
generations. Tapes and color slides
have been made of the various events
and used not only in the production but
also in promotion of coming festivals.

San Francisco, California. The rec-
reation and park department operates
its expansive dance program through
a special drama and dance division
with its own headquarters. Like San
Diego, it offers excellent dance oppor-
tunities in ballet and conducts two city-
wide classes in ballet, one for juniors
from nine to fourteen years old, one for
seniors fourteen years old and up. In
each age group, the youngsters must
have had sufficient basic training to be
able to keep up with the group. These
classes meet weekly and are free. The
climax of work is an annual city-wide
“Carnival” held in Sigmund Stern
Grove each June. Dancing starts early
in San Francisco. Children’s rhythmic
games are conducted on all the play;
grounds for preschool age youngsters.
Singing games lead naturally into folk
dancing as the child reaches school age.
These young children have an oppor-
tunity to join in a big annual Joseph
Lee program in Golden Gate Park the
last Thursday in June.

Like Worcester, San Francisco is
very folk dance-minded. Classes in folk
dancing are conducted on all units
throughout the city, wherever facilities
permit. The city’s children are used to
folk dancing and enjoy giving special
programs as a civic service. The many

playground groups all combine to dance
in the annual “Carnival” pageant, gayly
costumed through the special costume
division of the department.

The department supplies part-time
teachers for adult classes in folk,
square, and round dances, conducted
weekly on the playgrounds and attended
by the people of the neighborhood.
There is no charge, although donations
to cover refreshments and new records
are collected from time to time. The
adult folk dance groups take part not
only in the “Carnival,” but in the Col-
umbus Day pageant and state-wide and
regional festivals. They also give spe-
cial dance programs in hospitals, for
PTA groups, for senior-citizen groups,
and for other civic agencies.

An unusual folk dance group is an
adult Chinese group that meets weekly

 

at the Chinese Recreation Center to
study authentic Chinese folk dances.
This group adds color and interest to
the annual pageant and the annual Chi-
nese May Day Festival. May Day festi-
extend from individual play-
grounds to a big city-wide May Day
Festival in Golden Gate Park, where
eightcen large Maypoles of twenty-four
streamers each are wound simultane-
ously in a spectacular and colorful
dance learned on thc playgrounds.
The department conducts a social and

vals

ballroom workshOp for adults. on a city-
wide basis, in the recreation arts build-
ing. Instruction includes not only the
many different steps, but ctiquette, pos-
ture, correct attire, accepted social man-
ners, attitude, and the like. It is inter-
esting to know that thcse classes are
taught in a mirrored roonl. Occasional

parties highlight such instruction. Sen-
ior citizens may join in such dances, to
participate, watch, or just socialize.
While the department prefers to en-
courage its dance classes on the play-
ground and center level, it realizes the
appcal of revues, especially for teen-
agers. Such revues permit several neigh-
borhood groups to present a district
program. Each local group may re-
hearse separately, but with an overall
plan into which each local group must
fit. Similar, but for younger children
and on a neighborhood, not a regional
basis, talent or variety shows are prc-
sented both formally and informally
throughout the year. These are, of
course, very popular with parents and
serve as outlets for playground classes.
They also have real promotion value.

The handicapped. whcther young or

Dance activities in, recreation
inciude baiiet, of course.

Dance programs offer boundless
opportunities to practice .

the dance as an art medium.

 

old, are invited to take part in any dance
program within their physical limita-
I tions.

Portland, Oregon. Largely because
of the leadership and interest at the ad-
ministrative level, the city conducts an
unusually extensive dance program,
.with a rare degree of emphasis on mod-
_ern dance. The Portland Bureau of
Parks and Recreation has analyzed its
dance groups and finds that very clearly
defined preferences are apparent at dif-
ferent age and maturity levels. Young-
sters up to around the seventh grade like
every type of rhythmic activity they can
get, but hoys begin dropping out around
the third grade, and girls outnumher the
boys at all levels. The junior and senior
high school youngsters take part in so-
cial dancing to the exclusion of almost
all other forms. A few advanced stu-
dents continue their interest in ballet
and modern dance. Both boys and girls
are interested in modern jazz. The col-
lege-age and the young adults continue
mostly with social dance. A few enjoy
square, hallet, and modern. Adults are
mostly interested in social and square
but some enter modern and ballet
groups. Oldsters enjoy social, old-time
and square dances.

Modern dance, in Portland, is avail-
able to students in their own high school
and college curricula. In the recreation
modern dance classes, public response
has been analyzed and the results should

be helpful to other_public departments.
It was found that primary and inter-
mediate youngsters participate in large
numbers, are eager, industrious, and ex-
uberantly creative along dramatic or
story lines. Seventh- and eighth-graders
are few in number, irregular in attend-
ance, interested in social values, hard
to motivate, and unrealistic about their
abilities. Those of high-school or young-

adult age are moderate in number,
hard-working, interested in self-devel-
opment, capable of original and crea-
tive production under the right leader-
ship. Adults are moderate in number,
interested in artistic values, aware of
ahstract concepts and creatively produc-
tive along those lines. Experience here,
as elsewhere, indicates the value of
early exposure of children to creative
movement. It also indicates the need

for more emphasis on dance motiva-
tions for boys and men.

THE DANCE as a performing art can-
not reach its full scepe if it is ac-
cepted and regarded primarily as fem-
inine. The preponderance of women as
teachers of the dance is a contributing
factor. Hunter College of the City Uni-
versity of New York has attempted to
mitigate this situation. Male students
majoring in physical education are re-
quired to take a course, for men only,
entitled “Theory and Practice of Rec-
reational Dance Forms.” It is con-
ducted for two periods per week for one
credit and is taught by Olga Kulbitsky.
well-known in the dance field. This
course involves the practice and study
of folk, square, and ballroom dancing
and is designed to provide men with the
dance skills and techniques necessary
for teaching recreation dance. Special
emphasis and attention is given to meth-
ods and materials that will prepare them

to teach atypical groups, such as all-

Photo Credits

Lincoln Farm Work Camp, Ros-
coe, New York (cover) ; Patricia
Jean Moore; Ted Streshinsky,

Berkeley, California; Robert
Leahey, St. Petersburg, Florida;
Michael Teres; YWCA of the
USA; Mt. Vernon, New York,

Daily Argus.

 

DANCE IS RECREATION

 

male or groups with uneven division of
sexcs.

Dr. Jack Begelman, the chairman of
the department of physical education,
believes firmly that dancing is a man’s
activity, and that men are natural lead-
ers in the dance. It is because of this
conviction that the dance course is a re-
quirement in the professional prepara-
tion of all physical education majors.
A dramatic and spectacular presenta-
tion of dance as a man’s activity was

presented by Gene Kelly on the Omni-
bus TV program of December 31, 1958.

Entitled “Dancing—A Man’s Came,” it
analyzed the most characteristic move-
ments demonstrated by experts in many
sports, including baseball, baskethall,
golf, and tennis, and showed how all of
these movements were essentially dance.

CERTAIN CONCEPTS seem apparent, in
the light of the theory, philosophy,
and factual information given above.
Communities with outstanding dance
programs seem to subscribe to all or
most of the following premises as basic

to success.
0 The conviction that the dance is wor-

thy of acceptance as one of the perform-
ing arts, not to be overshadawed by, or
hidden in, the department programs of
drama, music, and social recreation;
hut an integral part of the community
recreation program.

0 That dance, like music and drama,
involves many different forms and
therefore has special appeals and values
for different ages, degrees of skill, and
types of interest.

0 That standards of excellence act as
incentives to learning and participation.
0 That community exposure to the
dance through many large and small
performances of various kinds is nec-
essary for connnunity understanding

and backing.

DANCE IS RECREATION

In structuring a comprehensive dance

program upon these concepts, a num-
ber of conclusions can be drawn:

0 The recreation dance program to be
truly effective must cut across age and
skill barriers, yet meet the needs of
both. Its two chief characteristics
should be flexibility and continuity of
growth.

0 The ohjective of a dance program is
two-pronged: to teach the skills and to
develop appreciation. It should foster
enjoyment of dancing and a love of the
dance as an art form.

0 Interest in any dance form is in di-
rect ratio to skill in it. Instruction at
several levels of skill is necessary to sus-
tain interest throughout the learning
period. Opportunities to practice the
skills under pleasant physical and social
conditions are necessary to maintain
interest.

0 As knowledge increases, so does ap-
preciation. Through a good community
dance program, an audience of appreci-
ative amateurs can be built up to sup-
port the professionals in the dance.

I The playground, with its informal
setting and program, can introduce
youngsters to the types of dancing best
suited to their ages and skills, and pro-
vide a “showcase” of demonstrations to
arouse community interest and support.
0 Creative rhythmic movement is a
“natural” for young children. This is
an ideal combination of dance, music,
and drama, highly enjoyable to the
child and highly important as a means
of providing a first and favorable dance
experience.

0 Creative rhythms lead to singing
games and these to folk dances; folk
dances to specialized ethnic groups,
folk dance festivals, and to folk dancing
as a hobby and service project. Each
step in the progression is capable of in-
finite variety and expansion.

0 The difficult pre-adolescent period re-
quires careful planning in the field of
dance. Simple dance mixers, informal
afternoon dances, and participation in
talent and amateur shows, festivals, and
other community-wide events all help

to establish self-confidence and develop
social skills.

0 Modern dance provides an important
creative outlet and deserves more atten-
tion in the recreation program.

THE ART OF DANCING

THE ART OF DANCING stands at
the source of all the arts that

express themselves first in the
human person. The art of build—
ing or architecture is the begin-
ning of all the arts that lie outside
the person; and in the end they
unite. Dancing is the lofticst, the
most moving, the most beautiful
of the arts, because it is no mere
translation or abstraction from
life, it is life itself. For the artist
life is always a discipline and no
discipline can be without pain.
That is so even of dancing, which
of all arts is most associated with
pleasure. To learn to dance is
the most austere of disciplines.
Dancing provides a dual means
of satisfying the longing for a
sense of group fellowship, and
the wish of the individual to dis-
play himself to fullest advantage.
Dancing as an art, we may be
sure cannot die out, but will al-
ways be undergoing rebirth. Not
merely as an art but also as a
social custom, it perpetually
emerges afresh from the soul of
the people ——- HAVELOCK ELLIS.

0 Instruction in such dance forms as
ballet and modern creative should be
given by trained, qualified leaders, and
should be geared carefully to the physi-
cal and emotional development of the
participants.

0 Modern, hallet, and other dance
forms are far too limited as far as male
participation and male leadership is
concerned.

0 During the pre-adolescent and ado-
lescent years, early interests developed
in ballet or other dance forms will con-
tinue in some children. For the major-
ity, however, dance interest will concen-
trate upon social dancing, and in those
dance events which involve boy-meets-
girl situations.

0 Instruction in social and ballroom
dancing should lead into opportunities
for use of such instruction, through par-
ties, dances, balls and other events fea-
turing social dancing.

dances as social events
should be anticipated by social dance
instruction, including not only the

o Ballroom

dance steps, but dance etiquettc apply-
ing to attire, hchavior, and gracious
manners.

0 Nationality dance groups can stintu-
late ethnic pride, provide social oppor-
tunitics, and encourage community-
wide participation.

0 The square-dance programs that ap-
peal to teenagers seem to be those that
expect the most, putting a premium
upon performance. Such programs bal-
ance their selectivity by offering attrac-
tive opportunities to show off their
skills. (The Silver Spurs Western dance
group of Spokane, with its repertoire
of 250 dances and its thousands of miles
of travel is a classic example.)

THE DANCE as a performing art, and
as an integral part of the commu-

nity recreation program, is on its way

0 its own place in the sun of public
acceptance. It has not yet reached the
.tage where it is in active demand. This
neans that those departments believing
11 its value and importance must do a
Jetter job of promotion and public edu-
:ation. Now that dance as an art form
ls more visible, owing to television and
to professional efforts, such promotion
will become easier. As demand in-
creases, colleges will be willing to give
more attention to dance curricula. As
trained leadership becomes more read-
ily available, more opportunities will
open up. As opportunities expand, bet-
ter facilities will be developed and the
dance program will become an active
force in the cultural life of the commu-
nity. The pendulum is swingincr. The
time is ripe. if:

Playgrounds often feature a
Maypole dance on Mayday.
Scene from, the

annual Carnival Pageant, held in

Stern Grove, San Francisco.

 

The possibilities of dance programs are limitless and, if
performances are creative, they need never be repetitious.
Peoria, Illinois, holds a gala annual dance festival.

 

Pamphlet Series—~The Performing Arts as Recreation ‘

it is
out of

the shell

 

DANCE IS RECREATION

This new pamphlet, appearing as a surprise bonus in the February 1963 issue of REC- l

REATION, is third in the above series and now available as a separate publication.

Order in QUANTITY LOTS

No. I ———MUSIC IS RECREATION
No. II -———DRAMA IS RECREATION
No. [IL—DANCE IS RECREATION

 

Use with
Your staff Your board or commission
Advisory committees Citizen committees
Clubs Planning groups
And for

Fund raising " Promotion of bond issues

Publicity

Education

Selling recreation
Training of volunteers

Program Planning Telling your story

Current prices

Single copies—-——$I.00 Set of three titles—$2.50

I 1 to 24 copies of same title—~—$.85 each 0 25 or more—~$.75
100 or over of same titlc———$65 per hundred

Order from

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION 8 West Eighth Street, New York 11, N. Y.

A REPORTER’S NOTEBOOK

 

«As we approach Brotherhood Week, February 17-24, we cast a reporte-
‘ial eye at recreation in various parts of the world. (See also Page 63

l’lonntain Climbing
I la Francois

Guido Magnone, one of France’s lead-
ng mountain climbers and director of
he French National Union of Moun-
aineering Centers (Union Nationale de
:entres de Montague) , was the featured
guest at a Seattle World’s Fair luncheon
organized by the National Recreation
Association and the Washington State
Recreation Society. At the luncheon,
Washington recreation leaders learned
that M. Magnone has a yearly attend-
ance at the union’s training institute of
several thousand people between the
ages of sixteen and twenty-five. Jean
Couret, another noted French climber
and instructor, was also at the luncheon.
Later M. Couret was taken to Camp
Long, a Seattle Park Department facil-
ity, which contains a man-made moun-
tain used to instruct in'mountain climb-

ing. Here, he donned his climbing shoes
and demonstrated his skill.

The T\ational Union of Mountaineer-
ing Centers was created in 1944 by the
youth organizations of France and de-
veloped with the support of the High
Commission for Youth and Sports. lts
aim is to devel0p among young people a
love for mountaineering and skiing. All
people coming to the UNCM
through affiliated youth organizations

young

or as individuals can enroll for training
periods of seven or fourteen days. The
union has eighteen centers, spread
through the Alps and Pyrenees. For a
modest price, young people have access
to the mountains where they have at
their disposal fully furnished cabins.
trained instructors, and equipment. Liv-
ing conditions are simple and require
a certain amount of “roughing it.” The
UNCM creates a sort of communal liv~

 

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

FEBRUARY, 1963

In Egypt, the Supreme Council for
Youth Welfare operates many facilities,
particularly a great variety of camps.
Left, a youngster is engrossed in a game
of what the Egyptians call “beach ball".
Below, an extremely modern beachfront
facility is a youth center and sport cen—
ter combined. Recreation is really roll-
ing in the land of the pyramids where
national roller-skating championship
matches engender much enthusiasm and
water polo is popular. The Supreme
Council is involved in many sports and
recreation projects for Egyptian youth.

ing with physical discipline, contact
with young people of one's own age and
with nature. The UNCM has enabled
several thousand young people to learn
mountain climbing. It offers a rare op-
portunity for a fuller development of the
personality through discipline and ca-
maraderic.

The Icy Broom

Broomball is going full sweep ahead
in Canada, where folks like sports hoth
rugger and rugged. Usually, broomball
is played on a rectangular field with
brooms thirty-one inches long and an
inflated rubber ball five inches in dia-
meter. The variation of this gentle sport
favored in Canada (called ballon-balai
among the Frcnch Canadiens) is played
on a normal ice-hockey skating rink
with a volleyball and brooms that have
been shortened by cutting off some of
the bristles in order to make a flat or
hlade surface.

Jac A. Cropley, recreation director
in Deep River, Ontario, reports, “In the
more rugged leagues, the brooms are
sometimes dampened in water and fro-
zen l they then can bccome lethal instru-
ments) . There is no offside to the game
and the principle is that a group of nine,
twelve, or sixteen players per side, ‘in
rubbers or moccasins, attempts to bat
the volleyball into the goal, usually a
hockey goal net. it is an extremcly good
game for age groups up to about fifty;
however, beyond this age, when bones
become more brittle, it might be dan-
gerous, due to the rigorous nature of
the sport and the possibilities of slip-
ping and falling.”

Recreation Is the Issue

The Bombay Civic Journal recently
devoted a complete issue to the subject
of recreation. Various articles (in Eng-
lish) covercd standards for recreation
facilities, parks, gardens, beaches, for-
ests. playgrounds, and the philosophy of
recreation. Dr. Zulie Nakhooda (see
“Balkan-li-Bari for the Children of In-
tlia,” RECREATION, October 1961) con-
“Education

tributed an article on

th rough Recreation.”

Continued on Page 96

87

 

ADMINISTRATION -

GOOD RECREATION

MANAGEMENT

A city manager examines

municipal recreation administration

HUGH HINES

ITY GOVERNMENT is limited by the laws of the state in
C what it can do, but its true function is, or should be,
to provide whatever service or regulation the people
of the community wish it to provide when that service can-
not be properly provided by some other agency within the
community. This is a far cry from the earlier concepts of city
government. Sometimes we speak glibly of necessary func-
tions of government using that phrase as a means of enabling
the governing body to avoid its proper civic responsibilities.
The complexity of city government now, however, is in-
creasing greatly as is illustrated by the difference between
the night watch of the early nineteenth century on the streets
of Boston and the modern twentieth century police force
in its duties providing for the safety and regulation of the
public. The contrast between the village well of the nine-
teenth century and the present water and sewer systems of
the modern metropolis is equally remarkable.

Consider some of the new functions of government which
have been accepted during the recent decades: urban re-
newal, preventive mental health, inspection of swimming
pools, infant welfare services, dental health programs, clinics
for prenatal care, homemaker services, community centers,
playgrounds, golf courses, skating rinks, swimming pools,
airports, heliports, snow removal, incineration of rubbish,
fluoridation of water, expressways, air pollution control, and

 

MR. HINES was city l'nanager of Greensboro, North Carolina,
until his recent death. This material is adapted from a speech
delivered at the Joint Virginia Recreation Society and the
National Recreation Association Mid-South District Execu-
tives Conference I 962.

88

many others. All of these have been brought on by those
needs of people which could best be met by all of the people
within the community working together. We must see, then,
that city government is an organization interested in the
total community in all of its facets, one of the most important
of which is recreation.

In this light, recreation must not be thought of as simply
another activity, or an activity to take up spare time, or an
activity to keep delinquent children off the streets, or an
activity to keep old people from dying of boredom, but must
be thought of as one of the vital processes of community life,
essential to good mental and physical health and to provide
[or a well rounded community life. lt is necessary then that
the governing body of a city provide a recreation program
coordinated and integrated with the other activities of the
city, and oriented toward the total community in contrast
to the recreation programs provided by specific interest
groups. It seems unfortunate that so many governing bodies
have been reluctant in admitting that recreation is impor-
tant to the community and have supported the recreation
program only half-heartedly. Sometimes, government washes
its hands of any responsibility for it by turning it over to
a separate commission to administer. This is evasion of a
real responsibility.

WHAT 15 good management, then, from the standpoint of
a city recreation department? What should he the

goals of the management of the recreation department? As

all the other departments, it should become an instrument

'of community policy, and to be its most effective, it should

RECREATION

b a part of the team with the same goals, rights, duties, and
re Sponsibilities, sharing in the successes and failures of the
city government as a whole.

In North Carolina the city recreation functions under
tlree types of organizational setup. One is the separate
0 )mmission appointed by the governing body, given an
a lowance, probably based on a special tax or maybe just
a budget appropriation and let to work independently of the
c ty government in providing a community recreation pro-
5 ram. The second, and probably more commonly preferred
1y city managers and by some recreation directors, is a
( epartrnent of the city government organized under the chief
f xecutive, whether he is manager or mayor, to function as
; department, but with the aid of an advisory commission
1 _) assist in designing programs and activities to fit the needs
(f the community. Preferred by a few, but a less common
organization, is simply a department of government oper-
:.ting under the supervision of the chief executive.

One of the important functions of the recreation executive
should be to see that his organization is closely identified
with the rest of the city government, becoming a part of
lhe team to accomplish a common goal. The advantages are
many. It reduces the tendency of the council to set recre-
ation aside as an unrelated function, limiting its revenues
more than it would normally limit the appropriation for
other agencies and departments. Too often council members
say, “I’m for this improvement provided it comes out of
the recreation budget,” when the same councilman would
readily vote for additional appropriations for improvements
for the other activities of the city.

‘\

ANOTHER very important function in the administration

of a recreation department is the cooperation with other
departments and agencies of a city government. This is hard
for some of the recreation directors of the smaller cities,
where the program is new, because there is a tendency on
the part of the older department heads to consider recreation
unessential and therefore less important than their own de-
partment activities. Establishing a line of communication
between the recreation department and the other operating
departments, of course, will open the avenue for a great
deal of assistance which would not be availaB‘le to recreation,
without a considerable cost, if the cooperation does not
exist. Certainly it is good management to use the staff
agencies available to other departments to help the recre-
ation director in his management activities, specifically such
functions as purchasing and finance. The problems of
budgeting, purchasing, and accounting are certainly major
problems of management and a recreation director who
fails to use these facilities of the city when they are available
is certainly missing the boat. Unfortunately, where there is
a separate operating commission, it is not always easy to
use those facilities, but certainly you should try.

Another very important aSpect of interdepartment co-
operation to the benefit of the recreation department is the
use of the city planning staff. Strange as it may seem, the
city planning staff is as much interested in recreation as a
factor of government, as it is in any other activity, and can

FEBRUARY, 1963

be of great assistance to the recreation director. It can help
determine population characteristics, locate needed park
facilities, and, in many cases, through its contacts with the
real estate developers, help acquire park and playground
sites. The planning department should be a great source of
information and assistance to recreation directors from the
standpoint of everyday activities as well as long-range plan-
ning for community programs. The personnel department,
the legal staff, and the public information agencies, all can
assist in accomplishing your programs if you maintain the

"lunar
an in"!

In.-
'2’35‘
.4- .- J h

l-

 

proper liaison with them. The same would apply to the use
of police and firemen in program activitics.

Still another very important factor in the good manage-
ment of a recreation program is the image the director of
that program presents to the council, to the manager, to the
general public, to the department heads, and to the inde-
pendent agencies of the city as well as to his staff and ad-
visory commission. Too many times recreation directors
have been forced to spend more of their time in programs
and activities than in management and planning, resulting
in their being looked upon as sportsmen or playboys or
playground supervisors or athletic directors rather than
executives of an important branch of the city government.
Too often. recreation executives have failed to impress gov-
erning bodies with their business and executive ability to
the detriment of the program itself. This is very often the
case in small cities and towns because the recreation depart-
ment has insufficient staff and the director must devote all '
of his time to actually supervising programs and doing
routine clerical and janitorial work. The whole program
suffers, however, when this happens, because the governing
body builds up an apprehensiveness about the director’s
business ability and thereby hesitates to increase revenues
for the departmcnt activities. The recreation director is a
skilled executive with the broad knowledgc of the needs of
the community and with a peculiar knowledge of recreation
and should be identified in the minds of the people as a
professional man and not as a playground supervisor.

ONE of the big problems with thc director of the recrea-
tion program is the proper use of boards and com-
missions, both policy-making and advisory. The chances are

89

you cannot help the structure of the government you are
working for; it may be that you are stuck with a less
desirable organization. You should make an effort, however,
to gain a firm position with your board or commission as
well as with the chief administrator of the city, and the
governing body. If you are serving under an operating
commission, of course you must continue to do so until such
commission is changed. This does not prevent you, however,
from establishing close liaison with a city government. the
city manager, and the governing body and endeavoring to
work out lines of communications with those agencies and
methods of cooperation to make your program a part of the
city program.

On the other harid, it takes an unusually good man to
work with any type of a board where he has responsibilities
to the chief executive. There is a tendency sometimes to
use an advisory commission as a prop or a crutch for the
recreation director to avoid taking responsibility for the
development of programs and activities. This sometimes
works as a disadvantage to the director by placing him in
between the advisory commission and the city manager.
who may at times he working at cross purposes. Although
there are many variations of commissions and boards. as
well as relationships between the city manager and the
recreation director, the successful recreation director will
maintain the control of his department using the commission
as directed by the city charter. and working closely with
the chief executive of the city to accomplish his program.

A

very sensitive about the budget. both about its accuracy

MAJOR PROBLEM of concern with city managers is the
annual Operating budget. The manager is generally

and the degree of attention the department heads and staff
agencies give to their effortsWo operate within the budget.
The budget is a plan for the operation of the city during
a fixed period of time: it is the authorization from the gov-
erning body to spend the amount of money necessary. in
the eyes of the governing body. to accomplish that plan.
The budget is generally prepared by the manager with the
assistance of the department heads. ll should be realistically
prepared. based on aecuratc data and on sound programs;
it is supposed to present a true picture of the activities
proposed and the cost of those activities to the city. The
recreation department budget should be presented to the
council as a part of the city’s operating budget on equal
standing with any other department or agency and should
be justified by recognized community needs. it should not
be presented with an apology or in the manner of requesting
a favor, but should be documented and thoroughly ex-
plained.

Once the budget is adopted. it should then be closely
adhered to. Nothing indicates lack of planning more than
a department budget where expenditures have little relation
to budget estimates. Even though the overall cost of the
departmental operation may be kept within the limits of the

appropriations, it still indicates both poor management and
poor planning.

90

A GOOD ADMINISTRATOR is a person who tries to accomplish

things, not only through his own effort, but also
through the efforts of a group or team, and the major part
of his decisions and activities will be directed toward leading
his associates in effectively accomplishing the desired pro-
gram. He must know more than just management; he must
know how to manage the particular type of organization for
which he is responsible. A recreation executive needs in
addition to knowing the art of management, to be thoroughly
grounded in the science and arts of recreation.

There are four major elements in the management pro-
cess. The manager must plan his operation. This includes
not only planning to attain long-range goals for programs
and activities, but it also includes planning how these pro-
grams and activities may be actively accomplished with a
minimum of effort and expense.

The second element is that of organization to accomplish
the plan that has been devised. The manager must develop
the necessary organization. This not only includes the basic
overall organization of the staff. but also means the organi-
zation of special agencies and groups to accomplish particu-
lar functions which may not be repetitive in nature. Each
plan requires a specific organization whether it is a plan for
single activity on a single afternOon or whether it is a
continuous and long-range operation. requiring a perma—
nent organization.

The third element of the management process is the ele-
ment of direction. This might be further broken down as
requiring command, control, and coordination. Command
is simply the issuance of orders necessary for the eigccution
of plans. This may apply to specific orders, but also may
apply to standing Operating procedures. rules. and regula-
tions. Control, also a phase of direction. is a function of
administration that is continuous in its use of guide lines,
standards, reporting, inspections. and many other techniques
in order that the activities are oriented on their objectives.

The third part of direction, of course, is coordination:
that is, welding the efforts of all the various groups and in-
div iduals of the organization into an effective operating tool
to accomplish the plan. The function of direction is the one
which requires the most leadership on the part of the man-
ager, for he must take into consideration human nature in
planning and lmilding an organization. He may deal closely
and intimately with many individuals in the function of
direction.

The fourth management function is that of acting as
chief representative for the organization. lf there is no one
to act as a chief representative of an organization. it soon
deteriorates. The organization: is identified with the charac-
ter, ability, and personality of the chief representative. Some-
times. of course, the head of the department is not its chief
representative. We have all seen weak exeeutives whosc sub-
ordinates were forccd to assume leadership and. in effect,
take their places as the chief representatives of their organi-
zations. This is the chief administrator’s function and unless
he is able to do it, his program will suffer. The chief repre-
sentative is not only the man who furnishes direction. but

Continued on Page I02

RECREATION

NOTES FOR THE ADMINISTRATOR

 

[‘wo-‘Vay Street

Cooperative planning in East Orange, New Jersey, was
lescribed by Graham M. Skea, the city superintendent of
recreation. in a talk before a meeting of the New Jersey
League of Municipalities. He stressed that preparation of
a master plan for the city means the elimination of personal
“empire builders.” it means to the recreation officials that
they must be prepared to consider total community needs
in relation to school and library facilities. He stated: “In
East Orange we have eliminated selfishness and personal
gain in our joint-planning of school, library, and recreation
facilities. When a new school building is being planned,
the recreation board and staff are immediately invited to
. ' assist the school superintendent and architect in developing
the building for maximum community, as well as school,
needs.

“This concept has been successfully applied in four new
school additions and will soon be undertaken again in a
fifth public school addition.

"Why . . .? It makes sense dollars-wise, as well as benefit-
wise. it seems that little can be accomplished in building
schools for less than two million dollars, but it is a little
more palatable to the public if they know that this new
facility can be used sixteen, instead of just eight, hours per
day and even twelve months per year. it would amaze you
how much can be saved in building, beating, supervision
and maintenance costs if a building is planned for joint use
in the very beginning.

“Our recreation board attempts to utilize school facilities
to the very maximum in order to avoid expensive duplication
of buildings. The recreation board, in turn, aims to locate
its new outdoor facilities as close as possible to the schools.
This we have accomplished in our three newest public play-
grounds witb gratifying results. The facilities are used day-
long by the school and public and after school and in the
summer by everyone.

"With only four square miles and some eigbty thousand
people. we are obliged to utilize our Open space to a maxi-
mum . . . and maximum use we get. Planning the play-
grounds also means calling in the school people and con-
sidering their problems and needs. The two concepts vary
in building plans. as well as outdoor facilities. Compromise
is always needed, but, perhaps, the greatest~asset is in the
personalities of the individuals involved. They must have a
sympathetic understanding of each otber’s problems and a
genuine desire to do what is best for the community.

“East Orange has met these challenges and erased per-

sonalities in the interests of the public."

Local Board and Commission

in his book Governing Urban America chGraw-Hilll.
Charles R. Adrian discusses the plans of boards and commis-
sions in local government and reports on a study of advisory

FEBRUARY, 1963

and policy-making boards in Pennsylvania. The following
findings were reported:
0 Boards “study complex problems to which the elected
body cannot devote enough time.”
0 They insulate the legislative body and executive from
certain types of political pressures. Since the members are
t usually) non-elective, they can more easily do things that
are thought necessary and desirable but which. in the short
run at least, might be politically unpopular.
0 They do not “take politics out of important areas” of
government.
o The effectiveness of the boards depends upon the quality
of the members “and not upon the advisory commission de-
vice itself."
0 They provide, especially at the local level. a great amount
of staff work which, if paid for. would be very expensive.
They, in other words, serve to socialize some of the cost of
government.
0 Members perceive their jobs ratber narrowly, tending to
avoid performing a function about which they are in doubt.
That is, they do not engage in “empire building."
0 Members often feel that they are not consulted frcquently
enough, that their advice is too frequently ignored, and that
they are not informed of the disposition made of their rec-
ommendations.
o For things requiring decisive action and, outside of the
work done by boards of adjustments, civil service commis-
sions, and planning commissions, the professional adminis-
trative staff of a department works more “efficiently” than
can boards.
0 “Citizen board and commissions can still offer effective
and useful aid to officials and the community.”

Recreation and park boards might well consider the ex-
tent to which the findings in the study are applicable to

them selves.

Raising a Question

The March 1962 issue of the bulletin distributed by the
New Jersey Recreation and Parks Socicty raises a question
as to the validity of the long-standing status in New Jersey
of recreation as a government function. In Cliffside Park:
a county court judge awarded $950 to a local elevcn-ycar-
old girl for injuries received when she fell in a public park.
She was injured July 1. 1959 when thrown from her bicycle
in North Park as it allegedly struck a defect in the park
sidewalk. The other case involved a ruling by the New Jersey
Appellate Court that the city of Newark must pay $2,800
to a thirteen-year-old girl injured when a five-year-old boy
ran into her with a tricycle in thc lockerroom of a city swim-
ming pool. She suffered a severed ankle tendon on September
1. 1960. The city contended that the lockerroom attendant
was negligent in allowing the boy to ride a tricycle. The
court ruled the city be held responsible and if the attendant
was negligent Newark can sue to try to recover damages
from her.

91

ADMINISTRATION

‘
:3"

 

Important information revealed
by soil conservation maps
saves dollars and averts headaches

 

A soil scientist
checks soil type
at a site for a

school in Bethel,

Connecticut.

RECREA TI ON SITE F INDERS

LESTER FOX

able in the selection of sites for
outdoor recreation. Private devel-
opers as well as units of government,
such as cities, counties, and townships,

E 30115 MAPS are proving indispens-

are depending on soils maps morc than
ever before in deciding the purposes for

which land should be used. They obtain
the maps from the Soil Conservation

Service, US. Department of Agricul-
ture.

How these soils maps can serve the
public was demonstrated in Stamford,
Connecticut. Thc city owned a thirty-
acre swamp it decided to make into a
dump. People who had built ncw homes
close to the swamp were alarmed. They
saw their investments in homes hitting
the skids. One of the alarmed rcsidents
knew Phil Barske, chairman of the
board of supervisors of the Fairfield
County Soil Conservation District. He
asked Mr. Barskc if the city fathers
could not be persuaded to make some
other use of the swamp. The city ofii-
cials were willing, but what else was the
swamp good for? Everybody agreed to
find out and thc soil conservation dis-
trict supervisors asked the Soil Conser-
vation Service to take a look. Al Newby,
in charge of SCS work in the district,

MR. FOX is a member of the Field
Information Unit of the U.S. Soil Con-

servation Service in Upper Darby,
Pennsylvania.

92

and soil scientist Dave Thompson made
a study of the swamp.

Mr. Thompson’s soils map showed
that the land was too valuable to be used
as a dump. His survey revealed that the
swamp was suitable for a much-needed
recreation area. The city oHicials were
delighted with this turn of evcnts for
they were under pressure to provide
more outdoor recreation facilities. The
residents near the swamp breathed a
deep sigh of relief.

The SCS men made a location map
for wildlife ponds and designed a drain-
age ditch to drop the water level two
feet so that people could walk around
the area with dry feet. The Stamford
Park Department contracted the build-
ing of three ponds three to four feet deep
and a half to thrce-quarters of an acre
in surface area. The ponds were stocked
with bass.

For a developmcnt outlay of only
$4,500, the city provided its people with
a thirty-acre recreation center. Without
charge, the people use it for fishing and
skating, contemplative walking, or ust
relaxing, watching the wildlife that uses
the ponds. “Black Swamp,” once des-
tined to become a dump, now has a new
name: “Sleepy Hollow Park,” an attrac-
tive, natural place for relaxation. These
developments help not only to satisfy
the exploding demand that has built up
for outdoor recreation facilities. They
create employment for trained recrea-

tion directors, counselors, attendants,
and a number of other local people.

THE SOILS SURVEY tells a great deal
about Mother Earth, especially
what’s under the surface. It reveals the
kinds of soil—and there are many kinds
—in the area. lt tells whether a pond
will hold water and whether the water-
shed is too small or too large for the size
of the proposed pond. Builders study
soils maps to find out whether the in-
stallation of tile drainage is needed to
kcep water out of the homes to be built.
Before planning commissions or zoning
boards approve a housing development,
they consult the soils maps to learn
whether, in the absence of sewer lines,
the soil is suitable for septic tanks. These
and many other things are revealed by
thc soils maps. Use of the maps can save
many a dollar and avert many a head-
ache for everyone concerned, especially
the people who arc going to use the land.

An extra bonus for these recreation
developments is that they often create
or strengthen a genuine community
spirit. In the town of Wilton, Connecti-
cut, the owner of twenty-two acres plan-
ned to develop the site to housing. Be-
fore he started, however, the Norwalk
River flooded the area. Because of flood-
ing danger, the Town Planning Commis-
sion would not issue a permit for the
housing development. At that point the
Kiwanis club, aware of the urgent need

RECREATION

of outdoor recreation opportunities,
asked the Soil Conservation Service if
the land was suitable for recreation.

The soil scientist checked his general
map and made a more detailed study on
the site. Drilling showed, curiously
enough, that the water table was six
inches higher than the adjacent level of
the Norwalk River. That meant that a
pond could be built that would not draw
water from the river which at that point
was contaminated with iron oxide. The
pond, the study showed, would be fed
by underground springs. The verdict:
the site was OK for recreation.

The Kiwanis Club bought the land
for $22,000 and turned it over to the
town. It raised the money through raf-
Hes, solicitation, and any other means
it could think of, all of which made the
pe0ple aware of their community inter-
est and gave them the feeling that they
themselves had created their own recre-
ation center.

The people in Wilton now have an
attractive sandy-beach pond for swim-
ming and skating.'The area also has a
clubhouse, snack bar, swings, slides, and
other play equipment for children and
a baseball field for the junior league.
A day-camp program is part of the rec-
reation services. The town operates and
maintains the center through its recrea-
tion department. Without this center the
people of Wilton would have to go miles
to the already overcrowded playlands

FEBRUARY, 1963

I M: *1" V'J-sa “"

*9. ..

EX" 2‘s?“ «3* as. ‘
. I‘m‘-\ a gm”, 3%; ‘i ~ ‘

 

Citizens of W ilton,
Connecticut, now
have a sandy-beach
pond for a recrea-
tion area as a result
of soil survey.

“is? ..
4h an, M

' “iii”;- 'ss*¢5..++ -' .. i“
' a. mew-5‘s" WM!“ ram“ w - -T 

on Long Island Sound. In another
planned Wilton recreation deve10pment,
the SCS soil survey showed gravel under
the surface. That was almost like find-
ing gold, for the gravel could be sold to
help pay for the development.

NOT ONLY are cities, towns, and coun-
ties using soils maps in locating
suitable recreation sites but individuals
like Joe De Deo are doing likewise. Mr.
De Deo is a contractor who has done
much work on farms in the Middlesex
Soil Conservation District, Massachu-
setts. Noting the need of outdoor rec-
reation facilities in his area and the
overcrowded condition of the beaches
around Boston, he picked a site of
twenty-five acres on State Highway 20
f the old Boston Post Road) and asked
the Soil Conservation Service if it was
suitable for a pond. The soils map re-
vealed that it was an ideal site for rec-

WITH ALL the wonderful things
that will be built and enrich
our lives, there is one precious com-
modity that could suffer, be torn
apart, and ruined by rapid growth
expansion --the land and those

things upon it that make it a won-
drous beauty.-—-—WILI.IAM J. JOHN-
SON, Associate Professor of Land-
scape Architecture, University of
Michigan.

 

reation. Not only that, it disclosed a
three- to six-foot layer of muck on top
of a good base for a pond. The money
that the muck brought paid for the sand
that went into beaches.

Mr. De Deo built a five-acre, semi-
circular pond. The land juts out into
the middle of the pond like a peninsula.
At the point of the peninsula, the water
is shallow for the benefit of small chil-
dren. From each side of the shallow area
the pond widens to deep water. A soft-
ball field may be used by either young-
sters or adults. 0n the peninsula Mr.
De Deo wisely left the trees that were
there. They now provide shade for pic-
nic tables and the spacious clubhouse
that contains a snack bar, big fireplace,
lockers, dressing rooms, showers, and
toilets.

When the Marlboro city officials.
heard that Mr. De Deo was thinking of
building the recreation center, they
urged him to proceed with all possible
haste, assuring him they would grant the
necessary permit. They had been under
great public pressure to provide such a
recreation center.

All of these developments, of course,
have to be approved by the proper au-
thorities as to the purity of the water
and the adequacy of sanitary facilities.
The first step, however, is to consult the
Soil Conservation Service to see whether
the proposed site is suitable for recrea-

ti on. #
93

1-.
I I ll...

III-ill III-Il-
I I ‘IIII

JII Ilh ‘l’

‘I. .I"

All. III;
‘IIII IIII’

IIIIIII III-III
II,’ AI IL ‘III
'I

III-7

I
I
I
u
I.
I
I
7
A
I
I
‘

 

‘ RECREATION

DIGEST

Finding Buried Treasure
in the Hospital

Take an inventory of patients’ talents and skills

ROBERT SOMMER and IRENE WATSON

UR WARDS were filled with hidden
0 treasures, but until recently the

annual hospital inventory pro-
ceeded too conventionally to uncover
them. We knew precisely the number
and nature of our physical plant’s facili-
ties and equipment. However, we had
never inventoried the most precious of
all our resources--—the talents and skills
of our patients.

A ward nurse or an activity therapist
interviewed. individually. 307 middle-
aged and older patients on male geri-
atric wards. The questions they asked
covered the patients’ past interests
IWhat hohhies have you had at any
time? What games or instruments have.
you ever enjoyed playing?) : their pres-
ent activities {What do you now do
when you are on the ward? How do you
spend your time?) ; and activities they
would like to engage in (Would you like

 

DR. SUMMER is assistant professor of
psychology at the University of Alberta,
Edmonton, Canada. MISS WATSON is
director of ward activities at the Sas-
katchewan Hospital in Weyburn, Can-
ada. Reprinted with permission from

Mental Hospitals Journal. July 1961.
94

to play checkers. Ping-pong. go to
movies, etcetera ?l

We found that 214 patients of the.
total sample were able to answer at least
some of the questions. We do not know
how many of the ninety-three patients
were unable to he interviewed
would have responded if we had used
more experienced intcrvicwers. How-

ever, the communicative patients made

who

it possible for the activity nurses to esti-
mate the amount of participation they
could expect from these patients.

Our survey list included thirty-six
different items. The most useful infor-
mation came from responses to ques.
tions pertaining to the patients’ cnjoy-
ment of and interest in specific activi-
ties. Most patients preferred listening
to music. taking walks. watching movies
or TV, and reading. The most unpopu-
lar activities were copperwork; flower-
making; and active sports such as golf,
volleyball, badminton, and tennis. We
understood the lack of enthusiasm for
sports, since the patients were older men
and some of them were bedridden. Es-
scntially, they preferred activities of the
passive, spectator variety which involve

no pressure to mix with others, permit
them to participate or withdraw un-
observed.

The largest numher of patients——
ninety percent of those who were able
to he intcrvicwedu—prcfcrred listening
to music. Their most common response
to questions about the types of music
they liked was “Any kind”; fifty-three
patients gave this answer. Twenty-one
patients liked Western music; sixteen.
old-time music; tcn, hymns, nine, popu-
lar music; and nine, band music. A
sprinkling of them chose polkas. waltzes,
classical music, carols, ctcctera.

We also asked the patients whether or
not they liked to take part in “sing-
songs” on the wards. Eighty-three an-
swercd affirmatively. Not many patients
were able to state specifically the kinds
of songs they liked to sing, but eighteen
named religious songs; thirteen, old-
time songs; seven, popular songs; and
six, Western songs. The others chose
miscellaneous categories.

Ninety-four patients answered that
that at one time or another they had
played a musical instrument; of this
group, thirty-seven had played the vio-

RECREATION

in; sixteen, the mouth organ; fourteen,
the guitar; eleven, the piano; six, the
:ornet; five, the banjo or mandolin;
1nd four each, the trumpet or accordion.
Several others had played the trom-
bone, organ, saxOphone, or drums.
Sixty-nine patients indicated that they
would like to play a musical instrument
again.

The patients enjoyed reading, even
though many complained that their eyes
were bad or that they did not have
Fifty-two preferred newspa-
pers; thirty-two, books of various
types; twenty-seven, magazines; elevcn,
Westerns; and eight, religious books.
Comics and detective stories received
six votes each, and sports and love

glasses.

stories, four each.

Tins SURVEY has shown what our
older patients like to do. There is
no guarantee that the preferred activi-
ties are therapeutic, or that the patients
are in any physical condition to carry
them out for an extended period of time.
The occupational therapist, recreational
therapist, or nurse must decide the ex-
tent of the activities’ therapeutic value,
but in making this decision they should
consider the patients’ likes and dislikes.
This is important because many thera-
pists are considerably younger than
their patients and do not share their
social backgrounds.

Often, survey data are hidden in
manila folders or laid to rest in the hos-
pital magazine. To avoid the same fate
for our survey, we placed our informa-
tion in the hands of the ward staff. We
believed it was’not sufficient to tell a
ward supervisor that eighteen patients
liked to play checkers, ten liked to play
Ping-pong, or that fifteen wanted to

weave rugs. This would not indicate a I

 

FEBRUARY, 1963

gix en path-entir- partnulal Interests and
might sugars-u a polim of scheduling ac-
tivities favored. by the majority. This
policy would he a mistake; even if only
three patients want to weave rugs, com-
pared with twenty who want to bowl,
weaving rugs might still be beneficial
and therapeutic for these three. There-
fore, we compiled a list of the patients
on each ward who were interested in the
various activities. The list. accom-
panied by a brief note to the supervisor.
read, “These are the patients on your
ward who like to do woodwork. . . .
These are the patients on your ward who
like to play cards. . . .”

The value of the survey to individual
patients was dramatized when a bed-
patient told the interviewer that he used
to play the violin. Although the ward
supervisor and his staff were somewhat
skeptical, the activity nurse borrowed
a violin from the music therapy depart-
ment and gave it to the patient. To
everyhody’s surprise, he played well.
Here was a patient whose talents had

been hidden

years! Such well-learned but dormant

and wasted for twelve

skills are of especial value to schizo-
phrenic patients who have difficulty in
learning anything new. Because several
other patients expressed interest in the
violin, extra instruments have been
purchased and are being used regularly.
For another patient who expressed in-
terest in playing the drums, we found a
set that could remain on the ward.
When we noted that reading was a
popular activity, we formed several
reading groups, and a current affairs
discussion group for a group of patients
with bad eyesight. At least four patients
told the interviewer that they did not
read English. and now several foreign-
language newspapers have been donated

for the benefit of these people.

THE GREAT VALUE of the survey has
been to convey to everybody the
idea that our patients have a wide range
of interests. Before the survey, we were
unaware of the likes and dislikes of
many individuals. and found it frustrat-
ing to work with a large number of in-
different
W here previously one general activity

and uninterested patients.

would be scheduled for all patients on a
ward. we now attempt to work with

smaller groups on different activities. 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

Your Group can raise
$100 to $2500 in 4

to 15 Days without
Risk or Investment

through Mason’s

Protected Fund
Raising Plan

       
   
       
     

' Your Low!
Orwhnulm ‘

ti .

- ' "£533
' ‘ ALN‘KIIID ,, °
m'n‘m" Molhl

w ‘ luv-uh-

{n.wf);

A‘- _
. -—' -‘_~I—--,dI—-'Ln-

Thousands of groups throughout the
country have successfully conducted fa-
mous LIASON PROTECTED FUND-RAISING
DRIVES, raising money quickly and com-
pietefy without risk or investment . We
supply a choice of top-quality MASON
candies, beautifully boxed. At no charge
to you, each package has 'an attractive,
printed band, bearing your organization’s
name, picture and slogan. \Ve even PRE-
PAY shipping charges! You make a big
NET PROFIT of 66%% (40¢ on every box
that costs you 60¢) and you pay NOTHING
until AFTER your drive is over. Anything
remaining unsoid may be returned for
fut! eredit. For mplgtg information
withoat obligation, write us or fill in the
coupon below.

r——_——____—————-I

l MR. GEORGE quscn. Dept. 756
I Mason. Box 800, Mineola. N. Y.

I Gentlemen: Piense send me, without obliga-
l tion, information on your Fund Raising Plan.

I Age
I Name (If under 21 )___._

 

State

 

 

I Organization__________._.—— - I

How many rm-mbersw . Phone-.—

__________ ...._.__|

Mason Candies, Inc., Mineola, L. 1., N. Y.

: City-
I
l

95

A Reporter’s Notebook

Continued from Page 87

 

0 1“

As for playgrounds, the special issue
of the Bombay Journal stated, “The
playground is a bit of land seized from
the builders’aclutch and set apart for
children, consecrated to their use to
help them keep their soul pure though
they soil their hands.”

Added Attractions

The Montreal Parks Department con-
tinued to expand its facilities in 1962,
adding three new recreation centers,
eleven swimming pools, nine wading
pools, sixteen outdoor rinks, and two

indoor ice arenas. New picnic grounds,
ballfields, and a charming miniature
train made their debut in the city, too.

Sporty Art

The National Art Museum of Sport,
lnc., which exhibited a collection of
fifty-five art works in New York City
recently, is planning to amass various
exhibits for showings in other cities. As
yet no schedule is available from the
lBM Gallery, who sponsored the first
exhibit. In the New York exhibit, team,
individual, competitive and recreation
sports were depicted in paintings by
Rembrandt, Rubens, Renoir, Monet,
Sargent, Homer, Eakins, Ben Shahn,

LLER
S KAT ll\l we

recreation t/eat entertain: more people

   
  
 
 
 
   
    

New Rubber-Plastic Wheels are kind to gym floors

Not only do these new Duryte rubber-plastic wheels
omwear others. they give the slum more traction
and smoother rolling. They are guaranteed not to
out or scratch the doom. Write for free details on
roller skating programs and skating equipment.

in less“ space. . .

Roller skating is a sport enjoyed by the
young in heart. A gym. hall or any orher
sm00th surface makes a fine skating area.
and there rs no damage to the floor If
proper skates are used Little equipment rs
needed . . little supervrsron rs required
That's why more and more schools and
churches have roller skating programs—
snd are») ofrbm malr money by charging a
nominal fee for skating Write today for
free information.

 

West Lake, Chicogo 24, Illinois

96 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

and other painters. American folk art
was represented by a life-size wood
sculpture “The Skater,” attributed to the
Skillen family, eighteenth-century ship
figurehead carvers of Boston and Salem,
Massachusetts.

Dutch Treat

“Come on over to Lancaster County
and we’ll show you the Pennsylvania
Dutch country.” That’s how it all began
when the Golden Years Club in Ephrata,
Pennsylvania, invited the Senior Citi-
zens Club from Wilkes-Barre to visit
them. The visiting oldsters were taken
on a tour of the famous Ephrata Clois-
ters. Later, they joined the Ephrata sen-
ior citizens for luncheon. In the after-
noon, the guests toured a one-room
schoolhouse, a grist mill, and shops
of blacksmiths and carriage makcrs.
Charles H. Ruth, president of the
Ephrata club, is a professional tour
guide and conductcd the sightseeing.

Picnic Pcrkup

Summertime rolls around and people
start packing up their picnic haskets
and heading for the parks to nibble
on fried chicken and charcoal-broilcd
steaks. But all too often, the gaiety dis-
appears with the last bit of edibles. Ac-
cording to the recreation department in
Reading, Pennsylvania, experience has
shown the wcll-organized picnic to hc
the best picnic. The department pub-
lishcs a yearly bulletin whosc sole pur-
pose is to hclp citizcns organize success-
ful picnics. Sclection of picnic sitcs.
services of the rccreation department in

'connection with picnics, and planning

the game program arc chapter headings
listed in the bulletin.

Birds of All Feathers

An all-bird show in Los Angelcs
County, California, attracted a flock of
budgies, canaries, and cxotic foreign
birds. The show was sponsorcd hy Los
Angeles County Dcpartmcnt of Parks
and Recreation. The non-compctitivc
show was open to thc public.

A Southern Bcllc Recast

The forty-eight-year-old Belle of Lou-
isville, a passenger steamboat from the
golden age of riverhoating, was refur-
bished recently by the citizens of Jeffer-
son County, Kentucky, who arc her new
owners. The county bought the craft

RECREATION

at a bankruptcy auction in Cincinnati.
The Belle made her debut as a showboat
vith a performance of the Gilbert and
Sullivan operetta The Gondoliers per-
Formed by a group of local actors late
an November. The county’s governing
unit has created a joint recreation
agency to operate the Belle. Art exhib-
its, a floating museum, excursions, con-
vention meetings are planned for the
future.

Recreation and Industry

In Port Huron, Michigan, a report of
‘the recreation facilities of the area was
'compiled for study by US. Internal
Revenue Service officials for a site for
a new data processing center. It was
brought out that good recreation facili-
ties are one of the needs cited by the
Internal Revenue Service in locating a
center. The same holds true for other
government units and industries.

STATE SOCIETY NEWS

NEW JERSEY. New officers of the New
Jersey Recreation and Parks Society
are: President, Donald V. Joyce, Tena-
lly; Vice-President, Ralph Cryder, Red
Bank; 2nd Vice-President, Joseph J.
Bannon, Leonia; Secretary, Harry W.
Ash, South Orange; and Treasurer,
Robert D. Leisher, Summit.

PEOPLE IN THE NEWS

\Villiam S. Hart was sworn in on De-
cember 20, 1962 as executive director
of the New Jersey Youth Commission.
Previously, Mr, Hart had been execu-
tive assistant to Governor Hughes. Mr.
Hart’s background includes service in
the Elizabeth, New Jersey, school system
as a guidance counselor.

Mrs. Ruth A. O’Neil, chairman of the

Maricopa County, Arizona, Board of
Supervisors, has been appointed chair-
man of the National Association of
County Officials Recreation Committee.

\Villiam Gould (Cap’n Bill) Vina],
who has worked persistently to preserve
a floating bog in eastern Massachusetts,
was rewarded handsomely for his efforts
when the bog and surrounding swamp-

land were set aside and dedicated as the
William Gould Vinal Nature Reserva-

FEBRUARY, 1963

tion. The quaking bog, part of a fifty-
five-acre area, supports pitcher plants,
sedges, cranberry, heath, and cotton
plants.

Louis F. T wardzik, assistant profes-
sor of resource development at Michi-
gan State University, has been named a
fellow of the Recreation Association of
Michigan. This annual award is pre-
sented to persons who have made out-
standing contributions to the recreation
field. Before coming to Michigan, Mr.
Twardzik was a state parks administra-

tor and recreation consultant in Tennes-
see.

IN MEMORIAM

0 CHARLES M. (CHUCK) HEYER, direc-
tor of the Waukesha, Wisconsin, Parks-
Recreation Department, died in Decem-
ber at the age of forty-eight. After
graduation from the University of Wis-
consin, Mr. Heyer played professional
baseball for three years with the Boston
Red Sox, later was a coach at Central
State College in Stevens Point, Wiscon-
sin. After receiving his master’s degree
in physical education, he became track
and cross-country coach and assistant
coach in football and basketball at Car-
roll College in Waukesha. When the
Waukesha Common Council combined
the park and recreation departments in

1955, Mr. Heyer was hired as the de-

partment’s first full-time director.

«- CARL DIEM, an internationally known
figure in the sports and recreation
world, died recently in Germany at the
age of eighty. A scholarly German
sportsman, his love of the classics led
him to revive the ancient Greek tradi-
tion of relaying a torch from Mount
Olympus to the far-flung sites of the
modern Olympic games, starting with
the 1936 Olympics in Berlin, where he
successfully resisted Nazi efforts to bar
Jewish athletes. He attended the first
International Recreation Congress in
Los Angeles in 1932. His wife, Liselott
Diem, is also well known in the recrea-
tion field here and abroad.

0 GEORGE BUCKLEY, superintendent of
recreation and parks in Morgan City,
Louisiana, died recently. Mr. Buckley
was a member of thc Southwest District
Advisory Committee of the NRA.

only“ The ' 3.5a; "
E 0 MP M EN “[33
Is Good Enough 

I
.0

\

 

AMERICAN

""APPROVED"

PARK and PICNIC,
PLAYG ROU N D

AN D SWIM MING
POOL EQUIPMENT

The wise choice of experienced
buyers for more than half a century.
Write for comprehensive literature.

AMERICAN

PLAYGROUND DEVICE CO.
ANDERSON, INDIANA, U. S. A.

WORLD'S LARGEST MANUFACTURERS OF FINE
PARK. PICNIC. PLAYGROUND, SWIMMING
POOL AND DRESSING ROOM EQUIPMENT

- Low Cost/Growing
Sport Programs for
Both Men and Women

PM

For club, class or team. Requires
minimum space and equnpment.
Exciting and practical for few or
many participants. National and

International associations.
Castello produces championship
equipment and specially desugned
equipment for class use. All
modestly priced.

JUDO and KARATE T00!

Kodokan approved uniforms spe-
cially designed for the taller
American figure.

Write for Free Catalogs

CASTELLO

FENCING/JUDO & KARATE EQUIPMENT
30 E. 10th St.. N. Y. 3. N. Y. since 1914

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

97

MARKET NEWS

 

For further information, please write directly to source given.

0 Shimmer shower. Patented rotating pendulum-action
fountain nozzles create dazzling water-sculpture displays.
This type of fountain nozzle has been termed the first basic
improvement in fountains in four thousand years. These
are the only fountains to discharge droplets (more shim-
mer) ; all others discharge steady streams of water. Several
different mouth-watering patterns in water can be obtained.
For further information, write to Rain Jet Corporation, 301
South Flower Street, Burbank. California.

0 Travel with the times. Open-road camper trailer fea-
tures an entire rear wall of sliding glass doors and screens
and a marvelous pull-out patio sundeck, apartment size stove,
refrigerator, water tank with electric pump, hot water (in-
stantly), a forty-gallon septic tank, a full-length room di-
vider. For further information, write to Farnell and Polk
Advertising, Inc.. 8733 Sunset Boulevard, Los Angeles 69,

California.

0 Take the next stage. A new proscenium was designed
specifically for use in multi-purpose rooms, community cen-
ters, ofiices, churches, and banquet halls. The superstructure,
housing curtains and lights, consists of tubular-steel frame-
work over a portable stage. The design accommodates hang-
ing curtains which can be opened or closed. Side and back
curtains can he hung and the design can be adapted to ac-
commodate as many wing curtains as desired. The supcr-
structure has facilities for hanging lights from the top. The
entire unit is formed for speedy and simple assembly, is com-
pact, and can be stored in a minimum of space. For further
information. write to Proscenium, Sico Inc., 5215 Eden
Avenue South. Minneapolis 24., Minnesota.

0 From book to film and how it happened. Here's the story
behind Weston Woods Studios, where well-known children’s
books are transformed into enchanting films through the
iconographic technique. Get acquainted with the story be-
hind Lentil and The Little Red Lighthouse, Stone Soup and
The Story About Ping. For a free copy of this new pamphlct
write to Weston Woods, Weston, Connecticut.

0 Hail to The Chief.
The only Apache chief
at Apache Junction,
Arizona, is a Jacobsen
Chief, according to its
manufacturer. The Ja-
, , _ _ . cobsen tractor is on

— ~ ._ ‘ duty at Geronimo
Park, spring-training basc for the Houston Colt .455, where
it cuts grass, smooths base lines, hauls sod, and moves batting
cages. The versatile machine has a seven-horsepower air-
cooled engine. For further information, write to William L.
Collins, Director of Public Relations and Advertising, Kohler
Company, Kohler, Wisconsin.

  

0 A fresh concept of stage lighting and electrical control
equipment, Little Theaters from Modest Spaces, is based on
the design practices of James Hull Miller (see RECREATION,
October 1962). The bulletin discusses turning space into
small theaters, gives an example of a small community drama
center, and in a chapter called “Stagecraft Notes” discusses

(.

98

the advisability of using folding screens on stage. To obtain

your copy, write to the Hub Electric Company, Inc., Bulletin
No. 107, 2255 West Grand Avenue, Chicago 12, Illinois.

0 To get from here to there, 1963 style. A ninety-six-pound
Campus Bike with a four-cycle engine goes nearly sixty
miles on a gallon of gas, can be easily stored in the trunk
of a car. For rugged use, off the beaten track, by campers.
sportsmen, loggers, parkkeepers, and maintenance men. For
further information, write to Fox, Box 797 N 6, Janesville.
Wisconsin.

0 For exhibitionists only. People with programs and proj-
ects they’re proud to show off can display them dashineg
with Exhihiteer panels. This multiple-use device, originally
designed for the Army Special Services program in Europe,
has been used for recreation, athletics, service-cluh, photo,
crafts, and entertainment exhibits. Here’s a flexible and in-
genious exhihit design at reasonable cost. Panel surfaces
are aluminum or cadmium coated and will not chip or peel.

 

licverse tactics with pebble-gray surface on one side of the
panels and autumn tan on the other. For further information
about this system. write to Exhibitecr. P.O. Box 3071, Lake-
land, Florida.

0 See how! Manufacturer of overhead projectors now of-
fers a special “see-bow” presentation on the overhead pro-
jector. This prcsentation visually dcmonstrates, suhjcct by
subject, just how thc overhead projector advances teaching
and coaching efforts. Starting with a demonstration of the
workings of an overhead projector, the presentation moves
into the unique communication advantages of this method
of projection. Next. the various projection tcclmiques uti-
lized with the overhead projector and the instruction ad-
vantages of tl1cse techniques are explained. The prcsentation
then gocs on to show specific applications of the overhead
projcction system in the teaching of acadcmic subjects, the
coaching of sports, and other audio-visual uses. The pres-
entation is concluded with a dcmonstration of the prepara-
tion of transparencies and the various “easy-to-work-with"
materials that are available. The presentation is made “live”
by an audio-visual specialist and is done entirely with a
Vu-Graph Ovcrhead Projector. Leaders wishing to have
this "see-bow” presentation on the overhead projector made
in school or center may arrange for it by writing to the
Charles Bescler Company, 219 South 18th Street. East 01'-

ange, New Jersey.

RECREATION

 

RESOURCE GUIDE

 

INDEX TO ADVERTISERS

Page
American Playground Device _______._HL._ 97
Castello Fencing and .ludo __.___.___._______.__ 97
Carabo-Cone --___-_-___.---___.____..-..___.. 55
Cherrydale Farms “MW... Inside Back Cover
Chicago Roller Skates _.-_.____._-..._s.___.___-_. 96
Classified Advertising ._.._..-_-..._,..___,__..__ 104
iJimco-Gray .._.____---_.s.....__...___...-__._s.-- 55
Dutch Maid .-_____n__________..“mum” 53
Emblem and Badge __-._..,-__-__...-_-__________ 56
Gold Medal ___.._.--_..._.._-.__._...________ 102
Hanna Manufacturing Company was...“ 101
Honda Associates -_.____-.__-_--______-._______- 55
Mason Candies __--____-__--...__-_.__....._....._. 95
Miracle Equipment ._---_______.---...__-__ Back Cover
Monroe Company --.__-...__-_.._.._s.--___._..- 101
National Studios -____.-........*,.._L...._.______ 101

Sico Manufacturing Company
-_____-___.._._....___ lnside Front Cover

—-——-.--_.'—__-.-_ _

Stagecraft ________-_-_____..__., Inside Front Cover
Swank Motion Pictures _________________ __. 56
Toilaflex _____________ --..s. Inside Front Cover
Wadsworth Publishing _.__-___,_,_____.__..._ 55

BASEBALL
SOFTBALL

Each spring, the National Rec-
reation Association extends its
baseball—softball team accident
insurance program to provide
coverage for the teams participat-
ing in the programs of NRA-affili-
ated recreation agencies.

The 1963 rates are the same as
last year. THERE HAS BEEN NO

PREMIUM INCREASE.

For additional information and
a brochure-application, write to
Frank Rowe, National Recreation
Association, 8 West fith Street,
New York 11.

 

FEBRUARY, 1963

 AIDS—Please Write Directly To Sources Given

DRAMA

HINTS 0N TIIE ART or MAKE-UP. Cosmetic firm
has booklets which would be extremely help-
ful to community-theater makeup artists.
Learn how to make up youngsters as oldcr
characters, how to create the character of fa-
mous types—Shakespearean, fictional, popular
stage types. Booklets detail the cosmetics nec-
essary to create effect. For further informa-

tion, write to Max Factor Make-Up Studio,
Hollywood, California.

THE PLAY’S THE THING. A readable catalogue,
which combines photographs and text, de-
scribes the many plays available from Chicago
publisher. Royalty and nonroyalty plays are
included *- musicals, one-acters, plays for
women and girls, Christmas dramas. For copy
of catalogue, write to The Dramatic Publislt-
ing Company, 179 North Michigan Avenue,
Chicago 1.

THEATER FOR CHILDREN. You can have profes-
sionally trained players come to your town to
present productions—and, indirectly, open up
citizen interest in the drama. Package plays
done up right are produced by various drama-
tic troupes. Tom Sawyer, Pass in Boots, Nic-
colo and Nicollette, and other plays and skits
are available. For further information on
booking plays, write to Frances Schram,

Briggs Management, 1475 Broadway, New
York 36.

NON-ROYALTY ONE-ACT PLAYS for the asking.
Drama service provides one-acters for work-
shops, drama festivals, club, or church produc-
tions. Productions concentrate on one simple
set to eliminate hammer and hrushwork. The
Popcorn Pete Children’s Theatre Series is de-
signed to he produced by adults for young-
sters. For catalogue, write to Pioneer Drama
Service, Cody, Wyoming.

COSTUMES dripping with sparkle, glitter,
shiny with fringes, foamy with tulle for vari-
ety shows, dance revues, and Specialty acts.
Here are many-hued leotards and tights of tra-
ditional and offbeat design, costumes to glad-
den a wardrobe mistress’ heart. Catalogue
portrays the costumes and leotards in glorious
technicolor. For your copy, write to Dazian’s,

142 West 44th Street, New York 36.

READY-MADE PLAYS with a custom-tailored
touch—long low-budget plays, dramatic mate-
rial for younger groups, one-acters, three-act-
ers, Christmas plays, and plays for churches.
Posters to advertise your play are available,
too. For catalogue of plays available, write to
Row, Peterson and Company, Evanston, Ill-
mots.

FAIRY TALES AND FANTASIES, gumdrops and sil-
ver skates, Indians and wizards abound in fan-
ciful, fascinating children’s plays. Full-length
plays include dramatizations of popular sto-
ries like A Christmas Carol, Five Little Pep-

pers, Robin Hood, Treasure Island, and oth-
ers. Historical plays about Marco Polo, Rip
Van Winkle, Daniel Boone, and modern plays,
including Mr. Popper’s Penguins, along with
textbooks on the theater round out the roster
of matcrials available. For further informa-
tion, write to The Children’s Theatre Press,
Cloverlot, Anchorage, Kentucky.

EQUIPMENT

POOLSIDE PROPS, including stanchions, plat-
forms, umbrella holders, handrails, ladder
treads, a lifeguard chair, wall ladders, and
supports for concrete diving towers are among
the accessories described and illustrated in
catalogue. For your copy, write to Swan Man-
ufacturing Corporation, 164 Franklin Avcnue,
Rockaway, New Jersey.

GAY BLADES. An egg-shaped metal skate sharp-
ener keeps hockey and figure skates in top
condition, is made of cemented carbide, sec-
ond only to the diamond in hardness. A half
dozen strokes sharpens skates. Rustproof,
heavily chromed sharpener is pocket sized.
For further information, write R. W. Quar-

tetti, General Electric News Bureau, Schenec-
tady 5, New York.

WHICH WALL has the marble? Striking ersatz
marble is actually predecorated Marlite plas-
tic-finished bardhoard paneling. Highly resist-
ant to abrasions and stains, the paneling can
be damp-wiped clean and never needs refin-
ishing. It can be installed with adhesive right
over old walls or to any solid hacking and
comes in five marble patterns as well as wood-
grain and other decorator patterns. For fur-
ther information, write to Marsh Wall Prod-
ucts, Inc., Dover, Ohio.

CHECK IT before it can spread. Are you pro-
tected against fires in your facilities? Here
are extinguishers for all manner of conflagra-
tions—for paper, wood, and textiles, for fires
in flammable liquids, electrical equipment,
and combustible metals. Different treatment
for different agents is necessary. For fire ex-
tinguishers of all sorts, write for the booklet
Complete Protection Against All Classes 0/

Fires. Available from Walter Kidde and Com-
pany, Inc., Belleville, New Jersey.

CONCRETE ADVICE. Rubberized caulking sealer
for filling cracks in asphalt and concrete can
be applied with any standard caulking gun.
In addition to pavement use, it is recom-
mended for sealing floors and parking decks
against crack leakage. For further informa-
tion on Lastek 34, write to Maintenance, Inc.,

Wooster, Ohio.

MATTER or LIFE AND DEATH. A clear plastic
airway made for mouth-to-mouth rcsuscitation
eliminates oral contact with victim’s mouth or
nose, overcomes obstruction to air entry or
exit that may be due to the lips, teeth, jaws,
or nose. The flexible neck permits resuscita-
tion evcn when the victim cannot be ideally

99

positioned. For further information, write to
Brook Airway Associates, Inc., Marcus Whit-
man Hotel Building, P.0. Box 196, Walla

Walla, Washington.

GOING ON A PICNIC? Here are Vinyl picnic
bags—completely washable, durable, in a vari-
ety of colors and patterns. Fiberglass-insulated
bags are fine for door prizes and gifts, too.
For further information, write to Prepac, Inc.,
188 West 230th Street, New York 63.

INTERNATIONAL PLAYTIME. Equipment for
French, Dutch, Japanese, Chinese, and Mexi-
can games is extremely well made. Intriguing
line of games includes some new selections—
Tantalizer, Booby Trap, and Jack Straws. To
find out more, write to World Wide Games,

Delaware, Ohio.

PROGRAM AIDS

DOLLMAKINC IS FUN IN ITSELr. In addition, it
can be used to learn about other eras and
other cultures. China dolls recapture a van-
ished era. They can be dressed in costumes
of various cras to illustrate the styles of thosc
times. Character dolls, baby dolls, KeWpie
dolls, together with rag dolls, replicas of an
early American Wooden Penny doll, Japanese,
German, Dutch, Swiss, Portuguese, Greek, Is-
raeli, Spanish and other international dolls,
along with their houses and furniture, books
on dolls create a fascinating world. For fur-
ther information on dolls and supplies, write
to the Mark Farmer Company, 11427 San
Pablo Avenue, El Cerrito 6, California.

AN INEXPENSIvE PATH to seeing famous paint-
ings. Collections of 5%"-by-8” prints include
painting, architecture, sculpture, and minor
arts. A catalogue of all subjects is available
at a small charge and sample prints are avail-
able free. For further information, write to
The University Prints, 15 Brattle Street, Har-
vard Square, Cambridge 38, Massachusetts.

THE NARCOTICS PROBLEM. A pamphlet, pre-
pared by the American Social Health Associa-
tion, is aimed at professionals whose work
may bring thcm into contact with narcotic ad-
dicts or their families or those who may bc
working with young people. For a free copy,
write to the American Social Health Associa-
tion, 1790 Broadway, New York 19.

FILMS

THE DDT’S. An hour-long film, Poisons, Pests
and People, examines the effects of chemical
insecticides both on insects and warm-blooded
creatures, including man. The film is suitable
for many audiences, including high-school and
university levels and consumer and health or-
ganizations. For further information, write
to the National Film Board of Canada, 680
Fifth Avenue, New York 19.

FILM-FOGGY? Here’s something to help you
clear the mist. An eight-page booklet called
How to Stage a Film Program gives pointers
on where to find topics, how to prepare for a
smooth show, and how to introduce your pro-
gram. It’s free. Just write to Modern Talking
Picture Service, 3 East 54th Street, New York

22.

SEAWORTHY. An eleven-minute, 16mm sound
film, We Explore Ocean Life, dives into the

100

deep with underwater photography to show
how underwater plants and animals get food,
move, and protect themselves. This is one of
a series which includes the beach, the stream,
the woodland, and the field and meadow. For
further information, write to Coronet Instruc-
tional Films, 65 East South Water Street,
Chicago 1.

BOATING FILMS. A directory of films available
to the public from various sources lists a total
of 364 films on boating and allied subjects,
such as boat construction, racing, navigation,
cruising, camping, engine work, and water
sports spectacles. Most of the films listed are
available free of charge. For a copy of Boat-
ing Films, write to the National Association of
Engine and Boat Manufacturers, 420 Lexing-
ton Avenue, New York 17.

PUBLIC NUISANCE #1. Following its very suc-
cessful run in theaters, Walt Disney’s latest
technicolor short, The Litterbug is now avail-
able in 16MM for use by community groups
and schools of all types. Using animation,
music and color, Disney takes a long satirical
look at that contemptible, yet skillful, pest,
the litterbug, who so eEectively manages to
defile our beaches, mountains, cities, and
countrysides. Donald Duck stars as this un-
inhibited Public Nuisance # One. The film
runs seven minutes and is available under

long-term lease through the 16mm Division of
Walt Disney Productions, Burbank, California.

RECORDIIGS

SONGS FOR SINGING, for social studies, for
rhythm. North American Indian songs are
singable anywhere, but are especially good
around the campfire. Pennsylvania Dutch
chorales and folk songs of various countries
can be used appropriately during Brotherhood
Week ( February 17-24). An eleven-album in-
troduction to symphonic music contains 134
compositions, in addition to charted themes
and notcs. For further information on these
records, send for the cataIOguc of Stanley

Bowmar Company, 12 Cleveland Street, Val-
halla, New York.

FOLKLYRICAL . . . from Negro prison laments
to Louisiana folksongs and Irish and English
ballads, this company’s recordings are sure to
be anything but run-of-the-mill. Many are re-
corded in the field, all are authentic folk ex-
pression. For leaflet describing these releases,
write to Folk-Lyric Records, 1945 Bay Strect,
Baton Rouge 2, Louisiana.

SONGS FOR CHILDREN with special needs. Re-
cordings, especially suited for use with deaf,
mentally retarded, cerebral-palsied children,
stress slower tempos, lower pitches, clear ar-
ticulation. For more information on these and
other recordings, write to Children’s Music
Center, 5373 West Pico Boulevard, Los An-
geles l9.

RECORDINGS TELL THE STORY. Young people’s
records on music———Mozart Country Dances,
Wonderful Violin; adventure and pioneering
—Going West, Chisholm Trail; and who-
knows-what . . . all add a new dintension to
recordings Singing, quiet listening, rhythmic
play records are also described. For cata-
logue, wirte to Lyons, 223 West Lake Street,
Chicago 6.

LOW-COST AIDS

Order these resources and references di-
rectly from source given ( enclose remittance).

PROBLEM CHILDREN. A new booklet on police
work with children is designed to spell out the
role of the juvenile specialist in dealing with
youngsters’ problems. Police Work With Chil-
dren: Perspectives and Principles raises some
questions in regard to police roles in taking
children into custody, keeping them in deten-
tion, and interviewing them. It also discusses
the admissability of evidence of youth offenses
obtained from the child or youth involved.
Single copies of the publication can be pur-
chased for $.35 from the Superintendent of

Documents, US. Government Printing Oflice,
Washington 25.

TRIGGERs FOR DISCUSSION. Booklets to add a
fipr to your discussion groups, crafts work-
shops, and a myriad other spots in your pro-
grams include Timely Tricks for Solving Daily
Problems, Seat Belts——The Big Plus, Starting
a Home Reference Library, How to Repair
and Refinish Wood Furniture, and Trees for
Shade and Beauty. The series includes 115
booklets on self-improvement, recreation,
sports, safety, national affairs, business. Sin-
gle copies are $.25. Available from Employee
Relations, Inc., 19 West 34th Strect, New

York 1.
O

A BOON rOR STYMIED STORvTELLsRs. A Bibli-
ography of Books for Children is a listing of
rccommended children’s books defined by sub-
ject matter. Each listing contains a short
writeup, the publisher’s name, book’s price,
reader ages. This bibliography ends the puz-
zlement element in selecting children’s books.
Art, folklore, foreign languages, music, plays,
poetry, religion, science, nature, social studies,
and fiction are categorized. Available for $1.50
from the Association for Childhood Education
International, 3615 Wisconsin Avenue, N.W.,
Washington 16, DC.

THIRTEENTII EDITION. The extensive survey of
folk and ethnic dance continued in Folk
Dance Guide—1963 examines folk dance in
the United States and dance through the ages,
gives a national directory of instruction
groups, a calendar of annual evcnts, and a list
of folk-dance community organizations. The
bibliography lists textbooks, masters’ theses
and doctoral dissertations, special articles,
current periodicals. The forty-six-page, paper-
bound guide at $1.00 a copy is available from
Paul Schwartz, P.0. Box 342, Cooper Station,
95 Fourth Avenue, New York 3, New York.

BLOWING YOUR OWN HORN isn’t a bad idea
when you’re doing it to announce new recrea-
tion facilities. In Flint, Michigan, the recrea-
tion and park board publishes a descriptive
leaflet complete with photographs every time
it opens a new facility. If you’d like to take
a look at the sort of thing being done in Flint,
send a stamped, self-addressed envelope along
with your request to Donald F. Sinn, Super-
intendent, Recreation and Park Board, City
Hall, Room 301, Flint, Michigan.

RECREATION

letters

Continued from Page 56

W

.but need to improve a turbid water con-
dition that results in a dangerous lack
of clarity. This apparently results from
“fines” in suspension, when the water is
agitated by bathers, that have washed in
from surface drainage over a period of
years. and lay on the shallow water
beaches.

The community is willing to under-
take an extensive program to eliminate
this condition, but our chief question
is whether or not a filter is practical. If
you are familiar with any such filter
use, will you let me know?

MONTE WEED, Superintendent of
Recreation, Fair Lawn, New Jersey.

Recreation Majors Club
Sirs:

The La Crosse [Wisconsin] State Col-
lege Recreation Majors Club consists of
SOphomores, juniors. and seniors in the
field of recreation. One of the recrea-
tion instructors at the college is the ad-
visor. The club this year has a member-

    

GET THE GUS
TO VOCALIZE

WITH
NATIONAL'S DANDY

“SING-ALONG SDNG SLIDES"!!

Meetings that begin or end with sing-along sessions
are successful meetings! Watch your gang warm up
fast with a lusty group sing! Send for National's
fantastic free catalog of more than 850 all-time hit
songs, available in slide form for as low as 506 a
lune! Need a projector? Let us know . . . we'll save
y0u real dough! Write today to.-

NATIONAL STUDIOS
42 West 48th Street, N. Y. 36, N. Y.

 

   

N0. [-3 TIBLE
rirLL-riiiisurn
msnmrt for.
smursmm

 
       
    
   

FOLDING

CHM“ PEDESTAL 'l' BLES
_ DIRECT‘FROM-FACTORY snvmcs

° j, to Churches. Schools. Clubs. etc.
Famous MONROE folding banquet
. tables. Automatic locking. Easily

" PARTITION!" seats 10 people. 94 models and
sizes. FREEHNEW 1963 CATALOG. Color pictures
on full tine—wtolding tables. chairs. table and chair
trucks. risers. portable partitions. Our 55th year.

THE MONROE 00., 181 Church St., Colfax,

  
 

   
  

     
      
     

Iowa

  

 

FEBRUARY. 1963

ship of abour tuft) -Ihr.:t . It holds meet-
ings on the first Wednesday of each
month with the board members usually
meeting on the third Wednesday of each
month. Officers are elected at the be-
ginning of the second semester of each
year, so that when the club begins in the
fall it is very well organized. The meet-
ing each month usually lasts about an
hour and a half and consists of profes-
sionals in the field discussing their cx-
periences or giving information valu-
able to the members, discussions among
the members, and talks by individual
members of the club when someone has
a good eXperience to share.

The junior recrcation class works
very closely with the Recreation Club
and plans many of the parties and so-
cials that are carried on in the year. For
example, ust recently, the junior pro-
gram-planning class planned and car-
ried out the annual fall social for the
club. The theme centered around the
lumberjack days, with many members
dressed to fit the idea. A class just like
this one was the group that got the club
going in the first place. All of this work
is good practical experience for the
members.

The first meeting this year consisted
of slides and a talk by one of the mem-
bers who had worked in a Girl Scout
camp in Hawaii during the summer. At
this meeting many of the plans for the
Wisconsin Recreation Association con-
vention were discussed. Around thirty
of our members did go to the convention
in November at Milwaukee, stopping at
Madison on the way to go through its
recreation center. The La Crosse Rec-
reation Club was the first student or-
ganization to be responsihle for having
a session at the Milwaukee convention.
It was planned strictly by our members

.and carried out by them. Our session

consisted of a panel discussion with the
theme being “Probe the Pros.” It in-
cluded five of our students, two students
from Madison, and one from Milwau-
kee, with some help from some recent
graduates in recreation and some mel-
lowed “pros.” It was very enlightening
and was handled very well. Many favor-
able comments were heard about it.
This was good experience for the club
and especially for the members who di-
rectly participated.

The club still has much work left to
do this year in getting plans ready for
good programs for each meeting left.
working in outside projects to earn ex-
tra money for the club, and in getting
ready for the annual songfest which the
club sponsors each April. The club. al-
though only organized for a few years,
is taking an active part at the college in
La Crosse.

JUDITH CIIRISTENSON.
La C rosse State College,

Wisconsin.

When writing to our advertisers please mention Recaesrron.

 

SLOW PITCH

Honno Botrite softboll
bots otter the latest
bot improvements with
a wide selection thot
gives you the right
but for your needs.

Write for
illustrated
catalog today.

 

HANNA

MANUFACTURING CO.

PLANT AND OFFICE - ATHENS. GEORGIA

101

R FOR THE ILL €99 HANDICAPPED

 

+ Residents and day-center members
of the Menorah Home and Hospital for
the Aged and Infirm in Brooklyn, New
York, will enjoy a new two thousand-
square-foot park and outdoor “cabaret”
come spring. To be located in the rear
of the main buildings, the park will con-
tain trees, flower heds, fountains, tables
for the cabaret, and gardens to be plant-
ed by members of the home’s garden
elub. Provisions also will be made to
accommodate art and ceramic exhibi-
tions. (For a moving story of Men-
orah’s drama program, see “Drama Is

Ageless,” RECREATION, May 1960.)

+ The Rainier School for Mentally Re-
tarded in Buckley, Washington, reports
an extensive recreation program for its
resident students, both within the insti-
tution and in the community. The pro-

DR. THOMPSON is acting director of the
National Recreation Association Con-
sulting Service on. Recreation for the III
and Handicapped.

MORTON THOMPSON, Ed.D.

gram includes games, music, stories,
rhythm, folk dance, exercise, and mov-
ies. A full-time sports program includes
basketball, volleyball, softball, track,
swimming, archery, and tumbling. The
social program includes social clubs,
hobby elubs, dancing, trips, bus rides,
scouting, and 4-H club programs.

+ At a very unusual meeting held re-
cently in Detroit over a thousand folks
attended a reunion of former and pres-
ent patients of the Rehabilitation Insti-
tute of Detroit. The entire program was
arranged by patients and ex-patients.
The program included a tour of the in-
stitute, a social hour, refreshments. and
four hours of entertainment. Pictures
and a detailed writeup of the reunion
will appear in this column next month.

*i' After ten years of experience with
a well organized art committee, the

United Hospital Fund of New York has

puhlished its “know-how” in a manual

called Planning a Picture Program for
Your Hospital. Prepared by the Com-
mittee on Art for Hospitals, a volunteer
group, it includes how to establish the
committee, how to acquire and select
pictures, where best to distribute them
around the hospital, what records to
keep, how to hang pictures properly,
manage loan collections, and even how
to set up an “art cart” program to travel
through a hospital.-—Squibb Nurse
Notes.

0 This material can be useful in set-
ting up similar programs in institutions
other than hospitals, such as nursing
homes, day centers, residences for the
aged, and other large areas where
people congregate or reside—Ed.

+ Theodore T. Asher, a recreation in-
struetor at Central Islip State Hospital
in New York reports on a game he de-
vised for wheelchair patients. He has
designed a shufileboard game 20'-by-6'
out of Masonite or plywood with furring
strips around the sides to prevent the
disk from falling off of the game sur-
face.

Good Recreation Management
Continued front Page 90

 

he is a channel of communication between his organization
and the organization or individual to which his organization
is responsible. He is also the channel of communication with
the public and to the groups or agencies which reflect them-
selves in his program.

Now what are the things that a city manager expects of
the department head? Of course, one of the first is that
he expects the department head to function as a manager
in the manner just outlined. He expects sound personnel
management, sound fiscal management, and due regards to

 

more than 7c 99;; piggy on every bag of . _
popcorn vendor! [or a dime! mi; means Mg

pan tar r22" 0.09} my?! Erie w. for

tree detailsl

     
 

     

Also your headquarters for Sno-Kones, Cotton

Candy, Popcorn Poppers, Hot Dogs etc!!

GOLD MEDAL PRODUUS (0.

1835 FREEMAN AVENUE, CINCINNATI 14, OHIO

102

  

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

the legal limits applied by the state law and the city charter.
Although a city rcereation department is not a business and
cannot be operated like a private business, regardless of
what some may say, it should use, inasmuch as is possible,
business-like methods. The city manager expects loyalty
from the department heads. He expects compliance with his
policies and probably more than anything else, expects in-
tellectual honesty. A good city manager expcets differences
of opinions to develop in his departments. He does not ex-
pect the department head to always agree that his idea is
best. If the manager is on his toes, he will encourage depart-
ment heads to express any disagreement while administra-
tive policies and directions are in the formulativc stages
because, after all, the department head generally knows
more about the specific problem involved than does the city
manager. The manager expects the department head to main
tain a high standard of professionalization, to attend eon-
ferences and schools, to preserve his health and disposition.
and to occasionally get off by himself and think construe-
tively and objectively ahout the overall problem of his joh.

1 should like to encourage you to develop the recreation
profession, to constantly and rapidly raise its standards in
the eyes of municipal administrators, eouneihncn, and the
public. Your position as a professional should be second to
none of the professions heeause what you are trying to
accomplish is broader in scope, and reaches more peeple
in all walks of life, than do most of the professions that are
dedicated to the process of developing a better life for our

people. #

RECREATION

NEW PUBLICATIONS

 

Planning and Operating Facilities
for Crippled Children, W. B. Schoen-
bohm. Charles C. Thomas, 301-27 East

lawrence Avenue, Springfield, Illinois.
Pp. 311. $11.50.

Here is a practical guide for planning
and operating facilities for the handi-
capped, such as hospital schools, non-
residential schools, and treatment cen-
‘ ters and camps. The information has
been gathered from actual facility and
program situations. Plans, definition Of
terms, methods of construction, illus-
strations and resources are included.
( See “Barriers to Service,” by Mr.

Schoenbohm and Robert W. Schwanke,
RECREATION, May 1962.)

The second section of the book re-
views step-by-step the operation of a
facility and discusses personnel, stand-
ards, leadership, policies, and over-all
administration of a program. Planning
and operating facilities for crippled
children should be a welcome addition
to the libraries of all persons and agen-
cies concerned with the handicapped.—

Morton Thompson, Ed.D.

101 Hand Puppets, Richard Cum-
mings. David McKay Company, 119
West 40th Street, New York 18. Pp.
147, illustrated. $3.50.

The author will be known to many
on the West Coast for his weekly TV

series with puppets. In this book his
puppets range from the very simplest
finger and hand puppets, using paper-
bags, boxes, balls, and other objects to
shadow puppets and various novelties.
Instructions are brief, terse, and just
enough to give the idea. Information
on making heads of plasticene and
papier-mz’iché and for making various
stages for puppet shows are included.
A very valuable addition, too, includes
three puppet scripts.

This is a gay, useful and happy little
book. Playground and camp leaders,
put it on your list!

IN BRIEF

PRIZE CONTEST PLAYS FOR YOUNG PEO-
PLE. A. S. Burack. Plays, I nc., 8 A rling-
ton Street, Boston 16. Pp. 342. $5.00.
Here is a collection of fifteen non-roy-
alty, one-act plays for teenage and
young adult casts. Three of them are
all-girl, the others are for mixed casts.
Each has a special production note. The
plays include comedies and melo-
dramas; they require only simple sets,
and are not difiicult to produce. One of

FEBRUARY, 1963

them, Cry Witch, is a tense tale of Salem
witchcraft days; another has a science-
fiction plot; still another is based on
young romance. Each, according to the
editor, has been produced successfully.

LET THEM WRITE POETRY. Nina Willis
Walter. Holt Rinehart and Winston, 383
Madison Avenue. New York 17. Pp.
I 79. Paper, $1.95. This handbook deals
with the development of the creative im-
pulse in children and with their appre-
ciation of poetry through the writing
thereof. Both facets of growth are
treated by the author with a rich under-
standing of children and of poetry. This
volume is obviously the result of a life-
time of experience with children in this
field. The wavs of growing. the many
poems by children, the additional lists
of poems for children, and extensive
bibliographies make this book excep-

tionally valuable for recreation leaders.
--Siebolt Frieswyk.

SCULPTURE AT YOUR FINGER TIPS, Fred
Press. Reinhold Publishing Corpora-
tion, 430 Park Avenue, New York 22.
Pp. 60, illustrated. $3.95. There is a
mine of information in these sixty pages
of finely printed matter. The book is
full Of good photographs of actual
work, showing the various steps in
building a piece of sculpture. One could
really take this book and create a piece
of sculpture. it would make a splendid
gift for a teacher, a recreation leader or
a craftsman—whether beginner or ad-
vanced—Mary B. Cummings.

STICKS, SPOOLS AND FEATIIERS, Harvey
Weiss. Young Scott Books, 8 West 13th
Street, New York 11 . Pp. 64, ill. $3.75.
Here is a most unusual book in which
art and craft projects are used to illus-
trate various principles. For example,
freehand, three-dimensional figures
made by gluing toothpicks together are
used to illustrate building and architec-
tural principles involved in the con-
struction of skyscrapers, Oil towers. ra-
dar antenna, et cetera and with this, the
creation of an interesting, artistic proj-
ect is not minimized. The same process
is used in weaving, in making wonderful
objects out of spools, designing really
“zany” party hats, making a collage,
and making a simple electric motor that
really works. For art and craft leaders
interested in a most original and imag-
inative approach without sacrificing
quality, this book, although not large,
will come as a hreath of fresh air.

SONGBOOKS

THE TRADITIONAL TUNES OF THE CHILD
BALLADS, Volume II. Bertrand Harris
Bronson. Princeton University Press,
Princeton, New Jersey. Pp. 565. $25 .00.
Volume I of Mr. Bronson’s work cov-
ered the first fifty-three English and
Scottish popular ballads originally col-
lected by Francis James Child and in-
cluded the tunes and their variants not
provided in the original collections.
Volume ll contains the texts and over
a thousand variant tunes for Ballads
54-113 of the Child collection. For ex-
ample, Volume ll contains 198 variants
of Barbara Allen, the tune of which
most peOple think they know. Recrea-
tion leaders who are enthusiastic about
folk songs will be proud to add this
great treasury of folk music to their
collection.

A TREASURY 0F SONCS FOR LITTLE
CHILDREN, Esther Botwin, Hart Pub-
lishing Company, 74 Fifth Avenue, New
York. Pp. 90. $2.95. Fifty-four well-
known songs are included in this col-
lection. The imaginative illustrations
and simple piano acompaniments, how-
ever, make this treasury distinctive and
useful, especially for young children.
It gives them a chance to “pick out their
favorite song” with pleasure.

CHANTEYINC ABOARD AMERICAN SHIPS.
Frederick Pease Harlow. Barre Gazette
Publishers. South Street. Barre, Massa-
chusetts. Pp. 250. $8.50. One section
of this book appeared as an article in
the American Neptune in 1948. The
present completed work was published
posthumously. The collector and au-
thor learned and sang these chanteys.
Narrative accounts of them make this
collection especially rich in lore and
flavor. The songs have muscle in them,
every one is singable and exhilarating.
Especially suitable for men and boys
who like their music virile.

A TREASURY OF AMERICAN SONC (sec-
ond edition ), text by Olin Downes and
Elie Siegmeister, ntusic arranged by

Elie Siegmeister. Alfred A. Knopf, 501
Madison Avenue, New York 22. Pp.
410. $10.00. This handsome “treasury”
has been revised and enlarged. The
historical and interpretive notes greatly
enhance the usefulness of the collection.
Many of the two hundred songs are fa-
miliar; all are beautifully arranged and
can be sung by everybody. Here are
songs for special programs and occa-
sions.

103

 

BOOKS 8. PAMPHLETS RECEIVED

 

FLO WERS, GARDENS, PLANTS

Art of Table Setting and Flower Arrangement,
The, Sylvia Hirsch. Thos Y. Crowell, 432 Park
Ave. S., New York 16. Pp. l52. $7.95.

Art of Training Plants, The, Ernesto Drinker Bol-

lard. Harper 6' Bros., 49 E. 33 St., New Y0rk 16.
Pp. 128. $4.75.

Gorden Art and Decoration. Sunset Books, Menlo
Park, Colif. Pp. 96. Paper, $1.75.

Green Thumb Garden Handbook, George Abraham.

Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, N.J. Pp. 344.
$4.95.

How to Grow African Violets, Carolyn K. Rector.
ggnfgt Books, Menlo Park, Calif. Pp. 64. Paper,

How to Grow and Use Annuals. Lone Books, Menlo
Park, Calif. Pp. 80. Paper, $1.95.

How to Grow and Use Bulbs. Lone Books, Menlo
Park, Colif. Pp. I 18. Paper, $1.95.

How to Grow and Use CameIIias. Lone Books,
Menlo Park, Colif. Pp. 86. Paper, $1.95.

Ikebana, Hiroshi Obchi. Hostings House, 151 E.
50th St., New York 22. Pp. 124. $5.95.

Manual of Aquarium Plants, A. House of Hen—

show, P.0. Box 8462, Washington 27, D.C.
Pp. 65. $2.00.

Meet Flora Mexicana, M. Wolter Pesman. Dole

Stuort Kin , Six Shooter Conyon, Globe, Arizona.
Pp. 278. $ .00.

Miniature Trees and Shrubs, Anne Ashberry. Du—

four Editions, Chester Springs, Pa. Pp. 158.
$5.00.

New Horizons in Flower Arrangement, Myro J.
Brooks Witt, Mary Alice and John P. Roche.

M. Barrows, 425 Park Ave. S., New York 16.
Pp. 192. $10.00.

Pictorial Guide to American Gardens, Louis H.
Frohman and Jean Elliot. Crown 'Publishers, 419
Park Ave. S., New York 16. Pp. 364. $5.95.

Pressed Flower Pictures and Citrus-Skin Decora-
tions, Ruth Voorhees Booke, D. Van Nostrand,

120 Alexander St., Princeton, N.J. P . 228.
$6.95. p

Saturday Morning Gardener, The, Donald Wyman.

Macmillan, 5th Ave., New York 1|. P . 236.
$7.50. p

Treasury of Driftwood Arrangements, A, Tatsuo

lshimoto. Crown Publ., 419 Park Ave. S., New
Y0rk 16. Pp. 124. $2.95.

Young America‘s Garden Book, Louise Bush-
Brown. Charles Scribner’s Sons, 597 5th Ave.,
New York 17. Pp. 281. $4.50.

INDIANS

America and Its Indians, Dr. Jerome E. Leovitt.
Childrens Press, Jackson Blvd. and Racine Ave.,
Chicago 7, Illinois. Pp. 220. $5.50.*

American Indian Arts—A Wa of Life, Julia M.

Seton. RonoId Press, 15 E. 6th St., New York
10. Pp. 246. $6.00.

Ceremonial Costumes of the Pueblo Indians,
Virginia More Roediger. Univ. of Calif. Press,
Berkeley 4. Pp. 251. Paper, $1.95.

Chpvln Art: An lnqui into its Forms and Mean-
ing, John Howland owe. University Publ., 239
Park Ave. S., New York 3. Pp. 40. Paper, $2.00.

Decorative Art of the Southwestern Indians,
Dorothy Smith Sides. Dover Publ., 180 Varick
St., New York 14. Unpaged. Paper, $1.00.

Indian Tales, Jaime de Angulo. Hill and Wang,

141 5th Ave., New York 10. Pp. 246. Paper,
$1.65.

* For younger readers.

 

CLASSIFIED

RATES: Words in regular type 3.15 each
Wards in boldface type $.25 each
Minimum ad accepted . . .. $3.00

Legends and Lore: Southern Indians, Flowers,
Holidays. Univ. of Tennessee, Extension Librory,
Box 8540, Knoxville. Pp. 30. Paper, $1.00.

Let's Be Indians, Peggy Parish. Horper Er Row,
49 E. 33rd St., New York 16. Unpaged. $2.75.*

Mound Builders, The, William E. Scheele. World

Publishing, 2231 W. 110 St., Cleveland 2.
Pp. 61. $2.50.*

Our Indian Heritage: Arts Thot Live Today, Cloro
Lee Tanner and Richard Kirk. Follett Publ.,
1010 W. Washington Blvd., Chicago 7. Un-
paged. $2.50.

INTERNATIONAL

British Athletics - 1962. SpOrtshelf, P.O. Box 634,
New Rochelle, NY. Pp. 64. Paper, $.75.

Esquire's Shopping Guide to Europe, Richord
Joseph. Harper and Brothers, 49 E. 33rd St.,
New York 16. Pp. 125. $2.50.

Fairy Tales of Japan, Fairy Tales of Denmark,
Fairy Tales of Greece, Fairy Tales of Persia.
E. P. Dutton, 300 Park Ave. S., New York 10.
Unpaged. $1.50 eoch.*

Japanese Homes and Their Surroundings, Edward
S. Morse. Dover Publ., I80 Varick St., New York
14. Pp. 372. Paper, $2.00.

Life World Library: Japan, Edward Seidensticker
and the Editors of LIFE. Life Magazine, Rocke-
feller Center, New York 20. Pp. 160. $2.95.

Madeline in London, Ludwig Bemelmons. Viking
ggess, 325 Madison Ave., New York 22. Pp. 56.
.50.

Mexico—Where Everything Costs Less! Norman
D. Ford. Horian Publ., 1000 Prince St., Green-
lown, N.Y. Pp. 82. Paper, $1.50.

Playtime In AfrIca, Efuo Sutherlond. Atheneum
Publ., 162 E. 38 St., New York 16. Pp. 56. $3.00.

Sculpture of Northern Nigeria, Roy Sieber. Uni-
versit Publ., 239 Park Ave. S., New York 3.
Pp. 3 . $2.00.

Southern England, Albert 8. Brushaber. Vantage
Preass, 120 W. 31st St., New York 1. Pp. 265.
$3. .

This Is Israel, Miroslaw Sosek. Macmillon, 60 5th
Ave., New York 1 1. Pp. 60. $3.00!

Thistle and Thyme, Tales and Legends of Scot-
land, Sorche Nic Leodhos. Holt Rinehart and

Winston, 383 Madison Ave., New York 17.
Pp. 143. $3.50.

Trip to Mexico, A, Terry Shannon. Childrens Press,
éockao‘n Blvd. 6 Racune Ave., Chicago 7. Pp. 30.
2.5 .

Traditional Art of the African Nations. University
gab. 59 E. 54th St., New York 22. Unpaged.

Umbundu: Folk Tales from Angola, collected and
translated b Merlin Ennis. Beacon Press, 25
Beacon St., oston 8. Pp. 316. $7.50.

United Nations, The—What It Does, David Cush-
man C0yle. Public Affairs Pamphlets, 22 E. 38th
St., New York 16. Pp. 28. $.25.

Yes a No. The Intimate Folklore of Africa, Alta
Jablow. Horizon Press, 156 5th Ave., New York
10. Pp. 223. $3.95.

Young People of East and South Afrlca, Charles
R. Jo . Duell, Sloan and Pearce, 124 E. 30th St.,
New ork 16. Pp. 211. $3.95.

You 'n U.N., Channing L. Bete, Box 112, Green-
field, Mass. Pp. 15. $.25.

PHOTOGRAPHY

ABC's of Lighting, The, Lou Jacobs, Jr. Amphoto
Books, 33 W. 60th St., New York 23. Pp. 117.
$2.50.

Anlmal and Pet Photography,
Amphoto, 33 W. 60th St.,
Pp. 127. Paper, $1.95.

$2.“’$dorf,’°23:

ADVERTISING

DEADLINES: Capy must be received by
the fifth of the month preceding date of
the issue in which ad is desired.

COPY: Type—or clearly print—your message and the address to which you wish
replies sent. Underline any words you want to appear in baIdIace type.

Send copy with remittance to:

 

RECREATION Classified Advertising, 8 West Eighth Street, New York 11, New York.

 

HELP 'WANTED

Therapists for California
State Hospitals. Opparlii-
nity to plan and conduct
individual patient recrea-
tion as well as special
graup activities; modern

equipment

and
available. Positions open to
college graduates with ma-
jor in recreation or recrea-
tion therapy, which includ-
ed supervised field work.
No experience

Starting salary $463.00 per
month; praniotional Oppar-
tunities; liberal employee
benefits. Write State Per-
sannel Board, 801 Capilol
Avenue, Sacramento, Cali-
fornia.

facilities

required.

The publisher assumes no responsibility for services or items advertised here.

104

Better Electric-Eye Movies (rev. ed.) , Myron Motz~
kin. Amphoto Books, 33 W. 60th St., New York.
Pp. 128. Paper, $1.95.

Canon, Canonet, Canonflex Manual, Paul Jones.
Aamgshoto, 33 W. 60th St., New York. Pp. 128.
$ 0 a

Careers in Photography, Edno Bennett. Amphoto
Books, 33 W. 60th St., New York 23. Pp. 128.
Paper, $1.95.

CIose-Up Photography with your Camera, Horold
Martin. Amphoto, 33 W. 60th St., New York 23.
Pp. 123. $2.50.

Complete Book of Nature Photography, Russ
Kinne. A. S. Barnes, 11 E. 36th St., New YOrk
16. Pp. I91. $7.50.

 

MAGAZINE ARTICLES

 

JOPHER, December 1962

Recreation—The Challenge We Face, Catherine
L. Allen.

Adapted Physical Education for the Educable
Mentally Handicapped, Julion U. Stein.

JUNIOR LEAGUE MAGAZINE, November-Decem—
ber 1962

Issue devoted to The Arts in Review.

OPTIMIST MAGAZINE, January 1963
When the Prom Ends.

In Just 37 Years (Recreation in 2000), Muriel
Lederer.

"What Do I Do Now“ IArrOnging a Banquet},
James E. Fenton.

SPORTS ILLUSTRATED, December 24, I962
Special Issue: The Bold American.

TODAY'S HEALTH, January 1963
They're Making Music in School, Marion Egbert.
Where Retirement Is Fun, Howord Earle.

How to Fish In Winter, Honk and Vera Brad-
shaw.

 

The Key to Nature

Continued from Page 66
m

0 Recognize that the enjoyment and
understanding of nature constitute a
major recreation area and that pro-
vision of this form of recrcation among
rural families is as important as pro-
visions for other forms of recreation.
' Encourage the inclusion of creative
iiaturc activities in the youth organiza-
tion and in the programs of thc puhlic
schools.

0 Attempt to cxtcnd the membership of
rural people in our numerous nature
and conservation club and other out-
door related groups.

0 Work for the establishment of public
parks and forests and the expansion of
interpretive services to serve rural
people.

' Encourage establishment by private
landholders of recreation lands open to
the public.

0 Stimulate nature interests as a form
of fainin recreation. Many nature ac-
tivities can be conducted at or near the
home.

' Do cverything in our power to pro-
vide opportunity for people to develop
perception, understanding and sensitiv-
ity to the natural beauty about us, so
that our land may remain, for ourselves,
our children, and our children’s chil-
dren, forever America the beautiful. 

RECREATION

 

 

CHERRYDALE FARMS

EASTER EGGS

Delicious cocoanut creom eggs, coated

with mouthwatering chacalate. Beau-
tifully de'carated V2, I and 2 lbs. sizes
—-individual|y boxed.

SELL FOR 50c — $1.00 — $1.75

Popular smaller eggs in
4 fast-selling vorieties.

OR, CHOOSE FROM I2 OTHER
CHERRYDALE FARMS FAVORITES

Cashew Butter Crunch

Virginia Peanut Crunch
Cashew Patties

Old Fashioned Sparkling Mints
Krispie Nuggets

English Toffee

Chacalate Biscane Bisque
Private Stack Asstd. Chocolates
Nutarama Glace

0 Milk Chocolate Almond Bar

0 Fruit Cubes

o Forget-Me-Nots

RAISE FUNDS

  
   

for your organization
with the

DYNAMIC

M 52mm 5* STAR PLAN

IDEAL FOR TEAMS AND CLUBS

Over the past 20 years the time-tested CHERRYDALE FARMS
PLAN has helped thousands of churches, schools, youth and

fraternal grOUps, service clubs, etc. —— raise more than
$20,000,000 for worthwhile activities, buildings, equipment,

uniforms, camps, and other activities.

it

 

 

HERE’S HOW IT WORKS FOR YOU

FREE FUND RAISING HELP — New monuol tells how to orgon-
ize and conduct campaign to raise the funds you need.

TOP SELECTION OF BEST SELLERS — Choose from 14 quality,

doiry fresh CHERRYDALE FARMS CONFECTIONS mode in our own
kitchens — oll beautifully packaged. Quality meons re-orders and
more profits.

FREE ORGANIZATION LABELS — To identify and advertise your
group with each package sold, and encourage re-orders.

FREE BONUS MERCHANDISE — Extro case of CHERRYDALE
FARMS CONFECTION with every 50 cases shipped.

FREIGHT PREPAID SHIPMENTS —— On 12 or more cases. 30 days
credit to established organizations.

ORGANIZATION OFFICERS:

Send caupon today for FREE candy somples, Fund Raising Manual,
and details an the CHERRYDALE FARMS "5-STAR" PLAN.

 

 

 

 

-—--m-------nH-n-I-n-nn—n-nnl
: E. CHERRY SONS 8. CO., INC., S230 BALTIMORE AVENUE, PHILADELPHIA 43, PA. :
E Please send details an CHERRYDALE FARMS "5-STAR" FUND RAISING I
PLAN, and candy samples- to:——- a

I I
E I
I NAME I
I I
I STREET ADDRESS I
: I
I

E—

: CITY ZON STATE I
I

I ORGANIZATION OFFICIAL TITLE n
I RF
I----n----H---------mnm-----nl

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

(If.
NOTHING
ATTRACTS

THEM
LIKE

   
  
 

 
      

  

'Hours of Imaginative

. ABC SLIDE
play and much needed ‘

exercise for any num- ~ -  Adored by the younger children
ber of sea-faring skip- so often overlooked on many

pers. You’ll have no trouble signing on a full crew when the playgrounds. Ideal for unsuper-
Miracle Captain's Deck drops anchor on your playground. vised play areas,

  
 
 
  
 
    

l
MIRACLE EQUIPMENT COMPANY I
GRINNELL 18. IOWA I
Please send me at once:
9'" ‘ Literature and prices on this new Miracle equipment I
FfeSh O” "19 PfeSSl our - New catalog on Miracle playground equipment I
new 4.,color’ 32_page Free playground plannlng service information I
catalog. features. the NAME _ __  _ _ I
complete lrne of Miracle I
playground equipment. ADDRESS -    I
Mail coupon today for cm, __ l
your FREE copy. I
I STATE |
. ____________________ .__J

When writing to our advertisers please mention I'il-lf‘iiElTlUN.

