Henry Pfeiffer Library

we”. ’3 -' Map Murray College *
,_. I Jackaorrville. Illinois

‘mw-

 

New

Monkey Swings

  
 
 
 
  
  
  
    

More fun than a barrel of monkeys!
They’ll make an immediate hit
in your play area. Good for body
coordination and mnscle
development, too.

_—-o-#

a RUGGED consrnucnon
Low MAINTENANCE
Low PRICE "

- DEPENDABLE srmnce

v SAFETY enomeeneo

 

V/rite today for colorful PORTER 1963 Buyer’s Cotolog

  vow-w? rrwrmr

i

-' ‘ P. ‘
I H (DIVISION WACO-PORTER CORPORATION)

‘_ " 9555 IRVING PARK ROAD - SCHILLER PARK, ILLINOIS

 

JUNE, 1963

 

Team Spirit can Soar

Hardware and Red Head lines, too.
Try Brunswick Sports equipment and
stand by for flying action.

Make way for merriment. Your
Brunswick sports equipment has just
arrived. Talk about team Spirit soar-
ing, this is it: the Sports equipment
better teams are made of. Brunswick
sports equipment, «of course. Includes
the complete MacGregor, Union

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

MacGregor, Red Head, Union Hardware
623 S. Wabash Ave.. Chicago 5. llllnols

 

251

RECREATION

 

 

 

 

 

JUNE I963 VOL. IN] NO. 6 PRICE 60:
THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

GENERAL

Creeping Treelessncss (Editorial) ........................................................ .. J. P. Mansfield 254
The price of negative progress

New National Recreation Area System .............................................................................. .. 257
Criteria established by President’s Recreation Advisory Council

The Race for Open Space ...................................................................................................... .. 259
I. New York Land Acquisition Program ........................................ .. C. W. Mattison
Il. Awakening in Massachusetts .............................................. .. Robert J. M. O’Hnre

What Makes a Good Community Survey, Part II .................... .. Merrill F. Krugho§ 264
Six requirements for its success

A City Revitalized .................................................................... .. Mrs. Edward G. Bruagnrd 267
St. Louis meets the recreation challenge of the sixties

A Nation-\Vide Testing Program .................................................................... .. Ben York 268
A search for playground physical-fitness chanipioas

Miniature Hotels in the Sky .................................................................. .. Blanche Hackett 269
New Hampshire oHers mountain accommodations for hikers

PROGRAM

Wonder As You Wander ................................................................  Reyaold E. Carlsoa 272
H osteling provides adventure and challenge for youth

Art Instruction in a Summer Program ............................................ .. Virginia Gregory 275
A small town adds cultural urts to its pattern for leisure

A Physical Fitness Pilot Project .................................................... .. Joseph G. Anderson 276
A recreation department conducts a test program

ADMINISTRATION

Public Recreation: Progress and Problems ............................................ .. Arthur Todd 278
Needs and trends from 1962 field reports

A Third Dimcnsion ........................................................................................ .. Dorothy Jones 282
Advisory councils extead public recreatioa services

Eighth National Institutc for Public Rccrcntion Executives .... .. W. C. Sutherland 285
Forceful communication through audio-visual resources

DIGEST

Our Own Space Projcct ....................................................................  Bernard 1. Formnn 286

Demonstration of close a Binity of urt and science

MONTHLY

Leltcrs 253
Resource Cuitle 289

 

As \Ve Go To Press 255
Rx for the III and llandicnppcd 29]

chorter’s Notebook 271
New Publications 292

 

RECREATION is published monthly except July and August by the National Recreation Association,
a service organization supported by voluntary contributions. at 8 West Eighth Street, New York 11,
New York, is on file in public libraries and Is Indexed in the Readers’ Guide. Subscriptlon $5.00 a
year. Canadian and foreign subscription rate $5.75. Re-entered as secondvclass matter April 25.
1950. at the Post Office in New York. New York. under Act of March 3. 1879. Acceptance for mailing
at special rate of postage provided for In Section 1103. Act of October 3. 1917. authorized May 1.
1924. Microfilms of current issues available from Universlty Microfilms. 313 N. Flrst Street. Ann
Arbor, Michigan.

DUCATIONAL The articles hereln printed are COpyright. 1963. by the

R E S S the expression of the writers and National Recreation Association.
5 5 Gel ATION not a statement of policy of the

F National Recreation Association.

AMERICA

  
  
 

Incorporated
Printed in the U.S.A.

252

 

 

Editor in Chief
J OSEPII PRENDERGAST

Editor
DOROTHY DONALDSON

Assistant Editor
ELVIRA DELANY

Associate Editor [or Program
VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

Business Manager
FRANK ROWE

Advertising Manager

ESTA GLUCK
w

On the Cover

WHAT’S IN A POND? You can
find out better by standing in it. If
you are a boy, this first-hand en-
counter with nature is a glowing
experience. Photo reproduced with
permission from A Sense 0/ Nature
by John Hay and photographer Ar-
line Strong, Doubleday &: Com-

pany, $4.95. { Reviewed in Decem-
ber 1962 RECREATION.)

Next Issue

RECREATION Magazine is not pub-
lished in July and August; and Sep-
[ember marks its annual “Congress
Issue,” with a digest of the Con-
gress program, announcement of
speakers, a guide and a listing of
exhibitors. This year, there will
also be a story about the new, beau-
tiful David P. Wolll recreation cen-
ter in St. Louis, the Congress city,
and a description of its new, unique
indoor-outdoor swimmingpool. Atl-
vcrtiscrs, attention! Copies 0/
this issue of RECREATION will be
distributed free at the Congress.
Among other articles, “The De-
sccnding Spiral of Ugliness,” by
August Heeksher, is a stimulating
and challenging discussion of influ-
enees at work to shape the America
of tomorrow. There will be a story
about the exciting cultural program
in San Diego and photographs of
high moments at various National
Recreation Association district rec-
reation conferences. You won’t
want to miss “Prison Dramalies”
by John N. Apostol, and Stu liieb-
ter’s “how-to” account of his. ex-
eellenl bowling program for the
handicapped in Colorado Springs.

Photo Credits

Page 260, Power Authority of the
State of New York; 262, National
Park Service; 269, Dick Smith,
North Conway, New Hampshire;
272, (top) D. D. & E. P. Schroeder,
New York City, (bottom) North

Carolina News Bureau, Raleigh.

RECREATION

LETTERS

 

Star Gazing

Sirs:

We read with special interest the arti-
cle “When School’s Out,” [April] espe-
cially the part pertaining to The Star-
wagon. At Jones Beach State Park we
have had a stargazing program going
on for a number of years. [We have a]
brochure [which] is self-explanatory as
to the scope of the program. This might
be of interest to others who direct state
recreation facilities.

LEE N ETTER, Director of Special

Events, Long Island State Park Com-

mission, Jones Beach State Park,

Wantagh, New York.
Hooked!

George D. Butler, director of research
of the National Recreation Association,
retired last December after forty-three
years with the Association. He has spent
the winter in Florida where his attempts
to utilize fishing gear presented by his
fellow staff members led to some hilari-
ous results. I n a recent letter Mr. Butler
reports:

I’m sure you will be thrilled to learn
that I have finally caught a fish! [After
I arrived] I took the fishing gear to a
sporting goods shop and they rigged the
line and attached a bob for casting prac-
tice. I tried it first in the backyard but
the shrubbery objected, so I ventured
to the beach. I guess the wind was too
strong; in any case, the line got plenty
fouled. In time I gathered the courage
to return to the shop . . . the chap told
me I had too much line anyway. So I
came away with less line and the feeling
that I wasn’t the first guy to report trou-
ble. After a few practice periods on the
beach, I couldreally heave.

The trouble was that for several
weeks a strong wind was blowing which
created waves which roiled the water
and made the fish run for cover. We did,
too, for thc water was too cold . . . and
no one seemed to be catching fish. . . .

[After all this time] I was determined
to catch a fish, and, fortified with some
live shrimp, I went to Midnight Pass at
the extreme and of Siesta Key. Aftcr
losing a few shrimp I got a terrific bite.
I knew it was a fish because the tide was
rushing in the pass and the thing on the
hook was heading for the gulf. After
a brief struggle, the line went limp . . .
and that was my last chance. If my fish-
ing book had only told me how to land
a fish instead of filling pages with un-
important information. . . .

Undaunted, I tried again [later in the
week], this time at one end of Point-of-

Rocks, the only stretch of rocky coast
I have seen in Florida. In no time I

caught a fish . . . it must have been all
of twelve inches and it gave up without
much of a struggle. I had really made
it . . . but on my next cast the book was
snagged. As it was my only hook and
I was sure that there were other fish
waiting to be caught, I decided to rescue
my gear. I shed my watch but not
my glasses or shirts (under and over)
and, holding a knife in one hand and
following the line with the other, I made
my way over the jagged, slippery rocks,
thankful that the waves were so well
behaved. Amazingly, I was able to get
where I could detach the hook, and
headed back for shore, holding the pre-
cious hook, sinker, and leader. On the
way back I stepped into two or three
holes and so had to swim; meanwhile
the line was winding itself around my
legs. The important thing is that I
reached the ledge, where I laid out the
gear and proceeded to reel in the line.
Alas, it was cut either by a mean fish
or a rock and I lost my gear after all.
Anyway, I came home with a fish (rated
poor for eating), soaked clothes, and
skinned shins, for all of which I suppose
I should have been thankful. . . . I have

bought more tackle so the end is not yet.
GEORGE BUTLER, Sarasota, F lorida.

MAKE THINGS HAPPEN!

that’s the theme of the

l963 PLAYGROUND
SUMMER NOTEBOOK

$2.50 ($2.00 to NRA members)

Available Nowl

Order Now From

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION

 

JUNE, 1963

8 West 8th Street, New York I I

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

You Can't Buy

BETTER

 

A scoreboard is a scoreboard. We
make scoreboards for all sports.
BUT, the big difference comes in
the operation. With the SCORE-
BRAIN you have the newest and
very best. This revolutionary new
system brings automation to scor-
ing for the first time, replacing
the old antiquated control
systems.

 
    

WHY PAY
MORE

For Outdated
Controls

 
     

MILO-Mimi: CONTROL

WITH
The SCOREBRAIN is as easy to
operate as dialing your own tele-
phone. ONLY ELECTRO-MECH
brings you this exciting new score-
board and control system. And,

model for model, SCOREBRAINS
cost far less than others. =

FOOTBALL SCOREBOARDS

Model 321M - 3’8”x14’ — $ 595.00
Model 321 — 7’4”x14’ -- $1375.00
Model 324 — 7’4”x18’ -- $1575.00
Model 330 — 9’4”x24’ — $2800.00

BASEBALL SCOREBOARDS

Model 110 — 8’x10’ -- $ 800.00
Model 112 — 10’x12’ — $1000.00

THERE ARE NO HIDDEN COSTS
' 't

 

eIectro-mech corp.

694 NEW STREET 0 MACON. GEORGIA
," PHONE 742-2336 0 AREA CODE 91?

253

CREEPING
 Are we giving enough thought

to the beauty of our cities? Are we creating

J. P. MANSFIELD

S THE ever-increasing movement
A from rural to urban centers con-
tinues, the towns, and, most not-
ably, the larger centers, are, to para-
phrase a popular song “bustin’ out all
over.” The heart or hub of the great ur-
ban wheel, once graced by stately homes
and well-[reed avenues, has gradually
evolved into a throbbing business arena.
Almost imperceptibly and insidiously,
the gaps between the trees grew wider
as the residential population moved out
to the cooler and more pleasant suburbs,
while old homes were renovated or re-
moved to make way for apartments, of-
fices and service stations.

Such is progress. However, accord-
ing to definition, progress is “the action
of stepping or moving forward and on-
ward.” We are, no doubt, progressing.
We are moving onward in medicine, ed-
ucation, the arts and sciences, and in
numerous technological fields. How-
ever, in the case of urban beautification
are we moving forward and onward?
Are we progressing?

It would seem not. Let us consider
the progress resulting from years of dis-
interest, vandalism, neglect, and fla-
grant disregard of priceless shade trees
in favor of momentary expediencies. Is
not this “couldn’t-care-less” attitude in-
jecting into the hearts of many of our
most important urban centers a type of
progress that is neither compatible with,
nor a credit to, the progress we are striv-
ing for, and gradually attaining in other
fields? This is progress toward ugli-
ness——a malignant disease which for
want of a better term might be called

MR. MANSFIELD is arborist for the De-
partment of Recreation and Parks, Ot-
tawa, Ontario, Canada. This material
appeared in the department’s bulletin.

2:31

,3

“creeping treelessness. If this malig-
nancy is allowed to run its course, let
us consider the consequences—the price
of negative progress.

Experts in city and town planning
have made no secret of the fact that the
density of our urban centers has been
increasing at an alarming rate. It is
reasonable to assume that there will be
a corrcsponding increase in the number
of vehicles presently converging upon
our already overcrowded streets. With-
out the protection of well-treed avenues
how are we going to cope with the heat,
dust, and noise that will most certainly
follow closely on the heels of such an
influx and will make an excursion into
the center town a most unpleasant ex-
perience?

Who can deny that tlle glare of the
sun during the summer months and the
heat generated by the congested assort-
ment of brick and concrete welded to-
gether by burning asphalt combine to
produce a certain pitiless cruelty? The
green oases of parks provide immeasur-
able relief but not enough—especially
for the pedestrian and motorist who
throng the city streets. For while trees
may inhibit parking, create problems in
advertising and snow ploughing, they
add a marked distinction to any thor-
oughfare that cannot be measured in
dollars and cents and in the summer
they become a positive Godsend.

WHAT WILL happen to property val-

ues if this disease is allowed to
progress unchecked? Who other than a
speculator would wish to invest money
in real estate in such an area? Will an
overcrowded “asphalt sahara” attract
the shopping public, much less prospec-
tive homeowners? As our center town

EDITORIAL

“asphalt saharas” of shadeless streets and playgrounds?

areas become hotter, noisier, and less
attractive generally, shoppers, apart-
ment dwellers, and homeowners will
seek more appealing and accessible
areas in which to meet their respective
needs. Surely, we have not lost sight of

the psychological value of beauty and
comfort as one of thc selling factors in
the business world?

Only time will tell us accurately thc
long-term effects of a naked city. In
what way, if any, will urban climate be
changed? Will the loss of an adequate
trce cover create a climatic island in
which it will be next to intolerable to
work and dwell? Without tlle tempcrate
and restraining hand of nature, only
time will count the cost of the all-too-
certain exccss that will follow the dc-
struction and ultimate removal of our
city trees. Too much or too little mois-
ture will certainly follow, and thc results

arc liccoming so commonplacc that fur-
ther discussion is unnecessary. One
fact is unquestionable—the cost will be
high and the cure painful.

Therefore, in this primarily urban so-
ciety of ours which prides itself on high
living standards, larger and faster cars,
and the ability to overcome the impossi-
ble, let us consider seriously some pre-
ventive medicine in order to check this
“creeping trcelessness” as insurance
against creating for ourselves the all-
too-familiar “Hell’s Kitchen”
which plague some of the major cities
of the world. Surely, if man—the city
dweller—-—has sufficient ingenuity to con-
quer outer space, we can overcome the
much simpler problem of equating busi-
ness, advertising, city services, pedcs-
trians, and vehicles with the beauty,
grace, and comfort afforded by an ave-
nue of street trees. #

areas

RECREATION

I

AS WE GO TO PRESS
mm

} MOBILIZATION FOR YOUTII is the fed-
eral government’s experimental pro-
gram to steer potential young hoods off
the streets into worthwhile jobs. The
President’s Committee on Youth Em-
ployment has forecast a grim future for
hundreds of thousands of unemployed,
poorly trained youths throughout the
nation.

The MFY project on New York City’s
teeming Lower East Side is an attempt
to provide the money and technical
guidance to train school dropouts who
otherwise would have no future. In ad-
dition to work projects, other aspects of
the MFY program include educational,
community, individual and family serv-
ices. In New York City, this promising
social rehabilitation program, now well
underway, is confined to an area where
juvenile delinquency umped seventy
percent in the past three years. Its pop-
ulation is around 110,000, with approx-
imately 6,680 youngsters between the
agcs of sixteen and twenty-one.

General headquarters of MFY is in
a former run-down slum building. More
than $150,000 have been poured into
it. A Youth Job Center is located in
this building. A narcotics information
center has been opened for addicts who
seek medical and psychiatric treatment.
Over two hundred youngsters “hooked”
by narcotics have come in for help. In
addition to these practical projects, the
program calls for “pre—delinquency”
measures, such as setting up coffee
shops in neighborhood store-front meet-
ing places and creation of an “Adven-
ture Corps” to attract restless young-
sters.

The techniques used by MFY in New
York City may be adopted across thc
countI°y——-if the President’s Youth Op-
portunities Act, now before Congress, is
passed. The act would create a national

Urban Youth Corps and a Youth Con-

servation Corps for rural areas (see
Congressional Scorecard, Page 256).

l LEGISLATION just prOposed in North
Carolina by the state recreation com-
mission is an act relating to the liability
of landowners to hunters, fishermen,
trappers, campers, hikers, and other
recreation uses. It claims that this leg-
islation should have a tremendous effect
upon opening up approximately two
million acres of land now owned by pri-
vate companies for recreation use. The
act provides that an owner, lessee, oc-
cupant, or person in control of premises
who gives permission to another to
hunt, fish, trap, camp, hike, or for other
recreation use upon such premises does
not thereby extend any assurance that

JUNE, 1963

THE WHITE HOUSE
Washington, D.C.

The use of free time in our free society has deeper significance to Americans

today than at an
sources Review

other time in our history. As the Outdoor Recreation Re-
ommisslon has made clear. rising population. increased ur-

banization, more leisure time. higher incomes. and greater mobility have com-
bined to pose an unprecedented challenge for effective use of our free time.

0  is appropriate. therefore. that the theme of National Recreation Month
Is Free Time—A Challenge to Free Men."

In discovering new and creative uses for our leisure. we shall be demonstrating
to the world how free men—through their freely chosen pursuits—may serve
themselves and the common good. This new. dynamic concept of recreation
can be a meaningful expression of our physical fitness. our mental alertness. and

our cultural development.

In observing June as National Recreation Month. I urge all citizens to dis-
cover the new potentials of their leisure—new opportunities and meaning in

their free time.

John F. Kennedy

the premises are safe for such purpose,
that a duty of care is owed, or that he
assumes responsibility for, or incurs
liability for, any injury to person or
property caused by an act of persons
to whom the permission is granted, nor
to any person or persons who enter
without permission.

} ATHLETES with sports training and
competitive experience will find ample
opportunities to use their skills and
training in Peace Corps service. He-
quests for volunteers with experience
in these areas have doubled for 1963
as emerging nations look to the Peace
Corps to supply volunteers with this
specialized knowledge.

Ten countries—India, Sierra Leone,
Morocco, Guatemala, Venezuela, C0-
lombia, Ecuador, Cameroon, Ethiopia,
and Barbados—have appealed to the
Peace Corps for volunteers with ath-
letic backgrounds. Specifically, the vol-
unteers will be assigned to develop, su-
pervise, and administer sports programs
and organize teams to participate in lo-
cal, regional, or international competi-
tions. A total of one hundred men and
women with the necessary backgrounds
and qualifications will go into training
this summer for these projects.

Additional information and volun-
teer questionnaires are available by
writing to Jules Pagano, Professional

and Technical Division, Peace Corps,

Washington 25, D.C.

D Two MEN who gave long and dedi-
cated service to the field of recreation
died in May.

0 JAMES DILLON, who retired as direc-
tor of recreation in Hartford, Connecti-
cut, in 1960, had been on the staff of
the department for thirty-nine years.
0 RAYMOND W. ROBERTSON, who re-
tired as superintendent of recreation in
Oakland, California, in 1946, had served
the department for twenty-five years,
twenty of them as superintendent.

THINGS YOU SHOULD KNOW

 

> THE PRESENT RUSH to get in on the
walking act has too much resemblance
“to flagpole sitting and goldfish swal-
lowing,” according to a recent editorial
in The Philadelphia Inquirer, which
warns against the hazards of plunging
into the long hikes too quickly. “Those
who have been doing little or no walk-
ing should try some short jaunts first,”
it declares, “and build up gradually to
the longer trips. . . . Some of the fem-
inine converts who start out blithely to
cover fifty miles in spike heels show
how little many of the walkers realize
what they are in for.” But it goes on to
say, “A nation-wide rebirth of interest
in hiking would he a wonderful thing

255

for people, if it were kept on a reason-
able plane. . . . Let’s walk more, but do
it sensibly and safely.”

} THE ESTABLISHMENT of a summer In-
stitute in Classic Theatre is announced
by The American University, to be of-
fered in c00peration with the Shake-
speare Summer Festival in Washington,
D.C. The festival is cosponsored by the
D.C. Recreation Department and the
Department of the Interior’s National
Park Service and will run for ten weeks
starting June 21. Further information
on the institute may be obtained from

the registrar at The American Univer-
sity.

k SENATE BILL N0. 9 deserves the sup-
port of parks and recreation people,
says L. Loss, commissioner of parks,
recreation, and public buildings in Saint
Paul, Minnesota, “ . . it was intro-
duced by Harrison Williams of New
Jersey and was referred to the Commit-
tee on Banking and Currency. It is, ‘A
bill to encourage the utilization, con-
sistent with sound urban planning, of
land included within urban renewal

areas for parks, playgrounds, or other
recreation facilities.’ ”

) COINS FOR CULTURE was the theme
spreading throngh the playgrounds of
Washington, D.C. a few months ago.
Toddlers to teens dr0pped pcnnies,
nickels, and dimes into the Special dis-
play boxes set up at all recreation cen-
ters for one week. Programs directed
by the staff of the recreation department
encouraged every child to contribute
and thereby become a part of the work-
ing force for the National Cultural

Coming Events

National Community Theatre
Center Sixth Summer Course,
June 24-July 19, University of W is-
consin, Madison. For further infor-
mation write to Professor Edward L.
Kamarck, Extension Building, Uni-
versity of Wisconsin, Madison 6.

National Play Tennis Week, July

7-13. For a free “Tennis Instruction
Kit” write to the United States Lawn
Tennis Association, 120 Broadway,

New York 5.

National Conference on Prob-
lems of Rural Youth, September
22-25, Oklahoma State University,
Stillwater. Sponsored by the Na-
tional Committee for Children and
Youth, 1145 19th Street N.W., Wash-
ington, D.C.

 

Center. The youngsters eagerly
planned and executed the programs
which brought in over five hundred
dollars as their contribution.

The “Coins for Culture” program,
sponsored by the District of Columbia
Recreation Department, was a success
in many ways. The participation in the
giving was very broad. The attention
and interest of thousands of pe0ple was
focused on the National Cultural Cen-
ter. All ages and communities made
an effort to show support. Working
through the children was a means of
reaching many homes and making the
fund raising of personal interest to
families thronghout the city. The fund

Senate

Youth Conservation Corps ( H .R. 3688, S. 1): Es-
tablishes a Youth Conservation Corps and a local-area
Youth Employment Program to train and employ un-

employed youth.

National Wilderness System (H.R. 930, S. 4) : Es- C

tablishes a national wilderness preservation system and
places 6,800,000 acres of national forest in the wilder-

ness system.

Land and Water Conservation (H.R. 3846, S.
859) : Provides for a land and water conservation fund

to finance planning, acquisition, and develOpment of
state and federal outdoor recreation facilities.

National Serviee Corps (H .R. 5625, S. 1321) : Pro-

vides a National Service Corps to strengthen commu-
nity service programs in the United States.

*C: in committee

256

R: reported P: passed

 

also provided an opportunity for the
recreation department to show its inter-
est in the promotion of cultural pro-
grams.

This way of participating in the Na-
tional Cultural Center fund raising
drive was simple and flexible. It could
easily be adapted by other cities and
communities who are interested both in
encouraging wholesome use of leisure
time and in building the National Cul-
tural Center.

rGLUE-SNIFFING, one of the latest of
adolescent crazes, unlike such harmless
idiocies as telephone-booth stuffing,
may do physical and psychological
harm to its practitioners, says the Jan-
uary 1963 Consumer Report. This ado-
lescent craze is not amusing. Young-
sters have learned that they can
produce an effect outwardly similar to
that of alcoholic intoxication by inhal-
ing the concentrated fumes of plastic
cemcnts or airplane dope (glue.) The
first reaction is one of mild intoxica-
tion, exhilaration, euphoria, and ex-
citement. Then the sniffer begins to
act drunk, becoming uncoordinated and
slurring his words; he sees double and
hears a buzzing in his ears. After a
half to three-quarters of an hour,
drowsiness, stupor, or unconsciousness
follow, with unresponsiveness lasting
an hour or more. According to medical
reports, a novice sniffer may find he
produccs a full-blown “jag” with the
fumes of one tube of glue, but a physical
tolerance builds up with repeated use
so that it may eventually take as many
as five tubes to produce an effect.

It is not yet establishcd to what de-
gree glue-sniffing may produce addic-
tion, but it is known that some individ-
uals become so dependent on the habit
that they are driven to stealing the glue
or to fighting among themselves over
it. Chronic glue-sniffers often have un-
pleasant breath odor, and excessive
secretions from irritated mucous mem-
branes of the nose and throat may lead
to frequent spitting. The potential for
more serious or lasting physiological
damage is still in doubt.

The Massachusetts Department of
Public Health has become sufficiently
concerned, following the death of a
teenage boy after sniffing model air-
plane glue, to call for the help of the
general public in a campaign to stamp
out glue-sniffing. Parents are advised to
take their child to a doctor for examina-
tion without delay if they suspect or
know that he has been sniffing glue.
Storekeepers are advised to notify the
police if they note a sudden increase in
sales of model airplane glue, and teach-
ers are told to suspect glue-sniffing if a
child is irritable or inattentive or if he

falls asleep or loses consciousness at
school.

Pvnnvtmrnm

NEW

NATIONAL RECREATION

AREA SYSTEM

Criteria established for new category of federal lands

visory Council has endorsed the establishment of a

system of National Recreation Areas and set criteria
for selecting them throughout the nation. On April 10, the
memhers of the council, including the Secretaries of the In-
terior, Agriculture, Defense, Commerce, Health, Education,
and Welfare, and the Administrator of the Housing and
Home Finance Agency, issued Policy Circular No. I, defin-
ing criteria for the new systems of federal lands.

PRESIDENT KENNEDY’S Cahinet-level Recreation Ad-

The new National Recreation Areas are designed to help
in meeting the nation’s mounting needs and demands for
outdoor recreation, according to the Council chairman,
Stewart L. Udall, Secretary of the Interior. “The policy
provides for federal investment in areas primarily needed
to satisfy outdoor recreation demands as contrasted with
other areas established primarily to preserve unique natural
or historic resources, to develop or conserve public lands
and forests, of'to meet requirements for water resources
development,” ‘said Chairman Udall.

The system will include areas of above average natural
endowments but with less significance than unique scenic
and historic elements of the National Parks and National
Forests. National Recreation Areas are to include areas
formerly proposed as National Seashores, Lakeshores, River-
ways, Waterways, and Recreation Demonstration Areas.
The criteria are not intended to apply to National Parks,
National Forest standard recreation areas, wildlife areas or
fish hatcheries, military installations, or certain areas in the
Open Space Program of the Housing and Home Finance
Agency. However, portions of all federal real property
might be considered for inclusion, the Recreation Advisory

Council noted.

National Recreation Areas will augment present outdoor
recreation areas, especially in localities where the recreation
demand is not being met. Under the council’s criteria, they
could be managed by one or more existing federal depart-
ments or agencies, or under state-federal agreements.

JUNE, 1963

UPON REQUEST by the President, the Recreation Advisory
Council will review proposals for National Recreation
Areas. The review will be based on studies by the Depart-
ment of the Interior’s Bureau of Outdoor Recreation. The
council would then recommend appropriate action, modi-
fications, priority of establishment and the agency or agen-
cies which should manage proposed areas. Actual establish-
ment will be by Act of Congress in accordance with estab-
lished procedures for handling legislation. Criteria set forth
by the Council for the new category of federal lands include:

Spaciousness—National Recreation Areas should include
not less than twenty thousand acres of land and water
surface, except along riverways, narrow coastal strips, or
areas where population density within a 250-n1ile radius is
in excess of thirty million people.

High carrying capacity—National Recreation Areas
should be located and designed to serve large numbers of
people, in relation to type of recreation offered.

Interstate use—National Recreation Areas should provide
recreation opportunities significant enough to assure inter-
state patronagc within the region of service, and should
attract patronage from outside the normal service region..

Require federal involvement—The scale of investment,
development, and operational responsibility should he suf-
ficiently high to require either direct federal involvement, or
substantial federal participation, for optimum public benefit.

Accessibility—National Recreation Areas should be l0-
catcd not more than 250 miles and preferably closer to the
urban population centers they are designed to serve. They
should be readily accessihle at all times.

Outdoor recreation dominant—~—Outdoor recreation is
recognized as the dominant or primary resource manage-
ment purpose of National Recreation Areas. If natural re-
sources in addition to the recreation facilities are utilized,
such use should be compatible with the recreation mission,
and under no conditions significantly detrimental.

Nccds not met by other programs—National Recreation

257

Areas should be established only in areas where other pro-
grams. federal or nonsfederal, will not fulfill high priority
i'ecraat'on needs in the forseeable future.

liERE APPLICABLE, the following secondary criteria will

be considered in establishment of National Recrea-
tion Areas:
0 Preference should be given to areas of high p0pulation
density: areas seriously deficient in private and public out-
door recreation opportunities as determined by a national
recreation plan; areas which have a comparatively low
amount of federally provided recreation “carrying ca-
pacity;” and those which can provide for a satisfactory
“carrying capacity” cost ratio.
0 Areas may be established on existing or proposed federal
reservoirs where recreation development is needed beyond
that normally justified under standard multiple-purpose
project development.

A nation-wide recreation area system has long been
advocated by the National Recreation Association. In his
appearance before Congressional committees dealing with
various aspects of recreation, Joseph Prendergast, execu-
tive director of the Association, has proposed such a
system in forceful fashion. The following quotes are taken
from his remarks to the House Committee on Interior and
Insular Affairs (re: HR 11172, 87th Congress, 2nd Ses-
sion) on July 11, 1962 and to the Senate Committee on
Interior and Insular Affairs ( re: 5 859, 88th Congress,
1st Session) on March 8, 1963.

THE NEED for the planning, acquisition, and deve10p-

ment of recreation areas.is not limited to any one
section of the country or to any one level of government.
The need, however, increases as one goes down the levels
of government from federal to state to local. It also in-
creases in direct pr0portion to the population of the
various sections of the country. In this day of expanding
leisure time, the greatest need for outdoor recreation
areas is where there is the greatest number of pe0ple;
that is, metropolitan and urban areas.

We can count on thc local and state governments to
do their share, which is, of course, the greatest and most
important share in the deve10pment of a nation-wide rec-
reation system, but the federal government must, in its
own name and on its own responsibility, do more than
it has done or is now doing to create such a national
recreation system.

In the past, under the leadership of the federal gov-
ernment, there have been deve10ped nationwide systems
of forests, parks, and wildlife refuges selected on the
basis of stands of trees, unusual scenic or historic sites,
and the presence of irreplaceable'bird and animal life.
Now what needs to be done is the deve10pment of a nation-
wide system of recreation areas—national, state, and
local—not selected for timber growth, scenic beauty or
wildlife, but selected for potential recreation use by large
numbers of people. There should be deve10ped a nation-

258

0 Areas may include scenic, historic, scientific, scarce or
disappearing resources provided their preservation and en-
joyment are compatible with the primary recreation mission.
0 Areas should conform to needs as shown in a national
recreation plan which the Bureau of Outdoor Recreation will
prepare and take into consideration state, regional, and local
comprehensive plans.

0 Whenever possible, areas should provide maximum com-
patibility with recreation potential of adjacent rural areas
in. private ownerships.

0 Areas should give preference to lands within or near
redeve10pment areas as defined by the US. Department of
Commerce and deemed significant in the economic improve-
ment of such redeve10pment areas.

Secretary Udall said that the council feels that designation
of thc system of National Recreation Areas will help provide
the stimulus and federal leadership necessary to achieve an
adequate nationwide outdoor recreation program. #

wide pattern or system of recreation areas on the na-
tional, interstate, metr0politan, county, and municipal
levels to complement and supplement the present and
future nationwide systems of parks, forests, and wildlife
refuges.

Anational recreation area should have the national
importance and significance of a national forest, a na-
tional park, or a national wildlife refuge, but that im-
portance or significance, instead of being judged by its
timber stand, by the scenic, scientific, or historic value
of the area, or by its importance to the preservation of
national species of fish or wildlife, should be judged by
its recreation importance or significance in terms of na-
tional recreation use; that is, the number of persons and
the extent of the geographic area from which they come.
Such national recrcation areas would relieve the mount-
ing pressure on national parks and forcsts for recreation
use not always compatible in whole or in part with those
areas. With reference to national recrcation areas, I am
speaking particularly on behalf of the millions of Ameri-
cans who live in the urbanizcd East where there are
relatively few wildlife refuges or areas now or potcntial-
ly within the national park system or the national forest
system and where few additional national parks, national
forests, or national wildlife refuges will probably evcr be
authorized.

The pr0posed national recreation arcas should be man-
aged as recreation areas by the federal agency holding
the land, or they could be managed by the National Park
Service, a federal recreation service, or any other de-
signated agency for recreation purposes under agree-
ments with the agency holding basic jurisdiction. Only
the national recreation areas refcrred to above, together
with the national wildlife refuges, the national parks and
the authorized areas of the national forcst system ad-
ministered for outdoor recreation purposes should be
subject to the proposed general admission and user fees.
All other federal land would continue to be open and

free to all. if:

RECREATION

,.

THE RACE FOR OPEN SPACE—

 

NEW YORK LAND ACQUISITION PROGRAM

One by one, the more progressive states

are initiating state land programs

C. W. MATTISON

UTDOOR RECREATION in New York
is increasing every year. Over a
ten-year period the state gained
ten percent in population while the
number of pe0ple using the outdoors
increased three hundred percent. In
1959, Governor Nelson Rockefeller, well
aware of the outdoor recreation crisis,
requested the state conservation depart-
ment to survey the state’s recreation
needs. Following pre-established out-
lines, guides, and key lists of possible
recreation projects, the department’s
field men reported on the specific loca-
tions and potential uses of tracts of
lands that could be used for public rec-
reation development. -

The resulting data was compiled in
Albany and brought together in volumi-
nous reports which provided the de-
tailed background for New York’s land-
acquisition program. The reports also
formed the basis for more condensed
and p0pular brochures which could be
used for the Legislature, the public, and
non-experts interested in recreation de-
velopment. One of these reports was the
colorful, widely distributed bulletin
Now or Never. Another was an extreme-
ly simple letter-size folder sent to every
municipal official in the state, from vil-
lage supervisors to the mayor of New
York City. This little brochure gave the
full text of a proposed referendum
enabling legislation whichwould have

 

MR. MATTISON is land-acquisition con-
sultant for the New York State Depart-
ment of Conservation. This material is
taken, from a speech given before the
Tenth A nnual Inter-A gency Committees
on Recreation at Higgins Lake, Roscom-

mon, Michigan, I 962.

106?

1|”!th

with an eye on the future

to be passed by the Legislature and
voted upon by the pe0ple of the state.
It explained the mechanism by which
municipalities at all levels could re-
ceive financial assistance from the state
for recreation land acquisition in the
event the legislation was approved by
the peOple.

The legislation passed overwhelming-
ly by the people of New York State in
1960, provided for a bond issue of
$75,000,000 and was supplemented by
an additional $25,000,000 passed in
1962.

The 1960 bond issue, known as the
375,000,000 Park and Recreation Land
Acquisition Bond Act, is designated as
Article I 6~C of the Conservation Law.
The Legislature’s “Declaration of Pur-
pose” in that article expressed concern
for outdoor recreation:

“The disappearance of open and
natural lands, particularly in and near
rapidly growing urban and suburban
areas, is of grave concern to the Legis-
lature and to the people of the state.
Once such lands are used for residential
or commercial purposes, they are often
permanently rendered unsuitable for
parks, conservation, and other recrea-
tion purposes. This act is designed to
Specify the manner in which the monies
resulting from the sale of bonds author-
ized by the Park and Recreation Land
Acquisition Bond Act shall be ex-

pended.”

THE Park and Recreation Land Ac-
quisition Bond Act recognizes the
several different political subdivisions
responsible for providing outdoor rec-
reation areas in New York State. It

sets up a new principle in the state’s
role for parks and recreation by author-
izing grants-in-aid to municipalities——
cities, counties, towns, villages—to
assist them in the purchase of needed
land for outdoor recreation. Acording-
ly, the 375,000,000 is broken down into
broad classifications: $16,000,000 for
counties, towns, and villages; $12,000,-
000 for New York City; and $12,000,-
000 for cities other than New York.

All of the bond-act monies available
to the above types of municipalities are
assigned on a 75:25 percent matching
basis, the state putting up the greater
amount. As with all money from this
bond issue, it can be used only for land
acquisition—none can he used for de-
velopment.

For acquisition of state land, $20,-
000,000 is allocated for state parks,
while $15,000,000 is set aside for state
land other than parks. Standards for
acquisition are simple:

1. Land acquired for state parks
shall be for additions to existing parks
or for the establishment of new parks
of substantial acreage.

2. Land acquired for state or munici-
pal parks shall consist of predominant-
ly open or natural lands, including
lands under water or forested lands,
in or near urban or suburban areas,
or suitable to serve the recreation needs
of the expanding populations of grow-
ing metrOpolitan regions, or desirable
to preserve the scenery or natural re-
sources thereof.

3. Lands acquired hy a municipality
shall be for establishing new parks of
not less than fifty acrcs each in area,
or for expanding existing parks to not

259

TH

w 1 1"“ ‘ q. .
V r'“ «PI. 
u“. Q ,' r
‘w .‘ I '-

"VIA..§, a- ’ I
N K???“ *n c "

   

E RACE F OR OPEN SPACE

9

 

 

The St. Lawrence Seaway project provided New Y ork with new waterfront parks.
Thousands now enjoy the facilities at Barnharl I sfanrf Beach near Massena.

less than fifty acres each by the addition
of not less than twenty-five acres to
such a park. The conservation commis-
sioner may, upon recommendation of
the State Council of Parks, make ex-
ceptions where there are insufiicient
eligible lands within a city or village
to meet the standards.

4. Lands acquired for state lands
other than parks shall consist of lands
desirable for outdoor recreation. in-
cluding public camping, fishing, hunt-
ing, boating, winter sports and, wher-
ever possible, to also serve multiple
purpose involving the conservation and
development of natural resources, in-
cluding preservation of scenic beauty,
watershed protection, forestry and re-
forestation.

The New York State allocation of a
major part of the bond issue to mu-
nicipalities with a minimum of state
regulation of expenditures expresses the
state’s philosophy of government. It
seems better than a pattern where most
or all of a proposed bond issue would
be used for the acquisition of state parks
and other state-owned recreation lands.

THE LAND ACQUISITION program got

under way on January 1, 1961,
and progress has been good. A quick
summary of over-all progress shows
that the State Council of Parks, because

of its over-the-years planning for park
expansion, has committed its entire
$20,000,000. State park acquisitions
must be suitable for intensive, high-
capacity recreation. In general, they are
the more costly types of land.

0f the eighteen new state park areas

programed. fifteen are on important
watcrfronts on Long Island Sound, the

Great Lakes (or the Niagara and St.
Lawrence Rivers), on the Finger Lakes,
and other interior waters. More than
half of the scheduled thirty-six addi-
tions to existing state parks also in-
volves important waterfront acquisi-
tions. At least twenty-five miles of valu-
able salt and fresh water frontage are
involved in this state park acquisition

program.
For state land other than parks. over

a third of the 315,000,000 allocated in
this classification has been obligated
and several large properties are under
negotiation. Seven different categories
make up this classification: puhlie
campsites; boat launching sites; forest
preserve: wetlands; multiple-use areas;
fishing rights; and special uses. Vary-
ing in size from a part of an acre for
some special use to as much as fifty
thousand acres for forest preserve, over
twenty-four hundred properties are
presently listed in the department for
acquisition consideration under the

     
  

several categories. An encouraging fac-
tor is that almost daily other properties
are offered to the state by owners who
wish to dispose of their holdings.
Properties in general in this classifi-
cation are relatively small in size. Ex-
cept for waterfront and some other
high-value lands, they are generally
cheaper than lands being acquired for
state and municipal park purposes. It
often requires acquisition of several
parcels to consolidate purchase into an
area of sufficient size for economic and
efhcient administration and manage-
available
ownerships are contiguous to existing
state lands. Their acquisition helps to

ment. Fortunately, many

consolidate state ownership and make
larger areas available for outdoor rec-
reation. Because so many more proper-
ties are involved, acquisition of state
lands other than parks is slower than
for state parks themselves. In the ag-
gregate, however, much more land is
involved. More than‘ 550 agreements
have been signed for the purchase of
about 101,000 acres, 42 miles of fishing
rights, and 17 boat launching sites at
a total cost of about $5,200,000. Con-

summation of current negotiations will
increase the rate of progress in all
categories.

L MICE-SCALE acquisition of lands for

puhlic use is an involved process
requiring careful study. In the Conser-
vation Department’s planning for the
orderly purchase of state lands other
than parks, it was apparent that needs
were particularly critical in the seven
categories previously listed. According-
ly. the department concentrates only on
lands which meet the requirements for
the specific future recreation use con-
templatcd.

With camping the fastest growing
outdoor recreation activity in New York
State, the state’s thirty-eight public
campsites in the forest preserve region
are grossly inadequate to meet current
demands. Thousands of would-he camp-
ers are turned away and even more
thousands wait for hours for campsite
vacancies. To alleviate this condition
the department plans to acquire the
necessary new public campsites under
the bond act. Since hond-act monies can
he used for land acquisition only, de-

velopment will come later as funds are
nade available. As of now, twenty-six
)arcels for new campsites or additions
0 existing areas are under purchase
agreement.

ANOTHER rapidly growing form of
outdoor activity is recreation boat-
ing. While it is increasing at an annual
rate of fourteen percent nationwide, in
New York State the rate is even greater.
Public boat-launching sites on key
' waterways and lakes are inadequate to
meet the demand and are becoming in-
creasingly difficult to find. The depart-
ment wants to make sure that boat
owners can get their boats in the water.
Hence, its plans call for at least 250
launching sites during the next few
years. Seventeen new sites are under
purchase agreement. On some water-
front properties purchased for other
purposes, there are “bonus” areas which
meet the specifications for development
of future launching sites.

In New York State there is still
wilderness. Under the bond act, the
department will acquire lands to con-
solidate the state’s forest preserve and
provide better approach to existing
areas. Almost two hundred thousand
additional acres are the goal within the
Adirondack and Catskill Forest Pre-
serves. About forty thousand acres are
already under contract.

Migratory waterfowl constitute a
natural resource of international con-
cern. The preservation of existing
waterfowl habitat is vital to the future
of many species. Some wetlands, where
waterfowl are at home, are being
drained while others are being filled
for some form of development—-—com-
mercial, industrial, agricultural, or res-
idential. In New York State good water-
fowl habitat still in private ownership
is limited to about thirty-seven thou-
sand acres. The Conservation Depart-
ment, charged as it is with waterfowl
management within the state, wants to
acquire at least thirty-five thousand
acres.

Many wetlands contain high value
waterfront; hence, the price comes high.
However, because New Yorkers want
to help insure North America a con-
tinued heritage of migratory game
birds, they are doing their part by pre-
serving these last remaining waterfowl

T111“? 1 06?

homes through public ownership. Prog-
ress in wetlands acquisition is slow to
date because of the need for intensive
surveys to determine “take lines.” While
actual signed agreements right now in-
clude only two thousand acrcs, prelimi-
nary work is under way on more than
fifteen thousand acres.

THE MULTIPLE-USE principle of wild
land management grows in impor-
tance as p0pulation increases and de-
mands for products of all lands become

Swimmers

need

COIN-LOK

security

79:90! peep/Mew do, 250!

Coin-Lok lockers start to pay off

the day they’re installed . . . and
soon liquidate your original invest-

ment through cash collected and the

elimination of lost article claims,

attendant salaries, and employer

headaches.

greater. Under it, the several possible
uses of land are carefully analyzed so
as to coordinate them in the best public
intercst. Multiple-use does not mean
that there will be several uses on every
acre in an area.

In the upland sections of New York
there remain many privately owned
areas with multiple-use values. The de-
partment hopes to acquire up to 122,-
000 acres of such land to manage for
as many values as they will produce
without harm to their resources. Agree-

 

 
 

I

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

Pool patrons know that Coin-Lok
provides maximum security for their
possessions, welcome its time-saving
convenience, and gladly drop their
coins in the slot.

Even on a coin-return basis, Coin-
Lok lockers soon pay for themselves
in eliminated expense. Mail the cou-
pon today for complete details.

.-

       
     

 

ASabsidiary of
AMERICAN LOCKER 00., INC.

*T. M. American locker Co., Inc.

Illi

Oldest and Largest
Coin Lock Manufacturers

 
  

 

COIN-LOK SYSTEMS. INC.

Dept. 65 211 Congress Street
Boston 10, Mass.

Please send' Without obligation' °°m' Name . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
plete information and specifications
of New Coin-Lok* Locks and Lockers. Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

261

THE RACE FOR OPEN SPACE

ments have been signed for more than
three hundred parcels, containing a
total of fifty thousand acres.

Public fishing rights on major trout
streams becomc more significant as
more private owners post their lands
against public use. The conservation
department, aware of this trend in the
late twenties, began state acquisition of
fishing rights in 1935. In the interven-
ing twenty—six years, 863 miles have

been acquired out of a total of more
than two thousand miles recommended
for purchase. With changing land use
and values, acquisition of fishing rights
has become more diHicult and expen-
sive. The cost per mile has doubled in
the past fifteen years. If the average
fisherman is to enjoy trout fishing in
New York State, fishing rights ease-
ments must be acquired now. The de-
partment hopes to acquire four hundred

miles under the bond act. Forty-two '
miles are already under purchase agree- ,

ment.

Land acquisition in New York State
under the Park and Recreation Land
Acquisition Bond Act is in high gear.
The Conservation Department will keep
it going! .New York State is serious
about acquiring the land for a bright

outdoor recreation future for its peo-

ple. #-

 

A WAKENING IN [MASSACHUSETTS

Community conservation. commissions guard recreation resources

ROBERT J. M. O'HARE

1TH THE PUBLICATION of the
W official 1960 census returns,
the citizens and officials of
Massachusetts became acutely aware of
the unprecedented formation of an en-
tirely new metropolitan complex on the
east coast of the United States: that
region stretching from Portland, Maine,
to just south of our nation’s capital.
This ever-developing arca has bcen pro-
perly named “megalopolis” by Jean
Gottmann in his work bearing the same
title (see RECREATION, June 1962). The
Twentieth Century Fund, which fur-
nisbed the monetary support for the
writing of this book, is so convinced of
serious problems existent in this physi-
cal giant that it has initiated a series
of meetings of persons who are devel-
oping botb research and action pro-
grams in the region for the purpose of
determining the particular problems
that necessitate additional examination
in depth. At the first such meeting, the
group reached two significant decisions.
First, that transportation is, indeed, an
area of common and urgent concern.
Second, the problems of recreation and
open space are likewise areas in need
of further study and exploration.
Massachusetts, with a limited land
area of 7,867 square miles and with
351 municipal corporations occupying
the total land area, is the one state of

MR. O’HARE is director of the Bureau
of Public A {fairs at Boston University.
This material was delivered at the 68th
National Conference on Government,

Washington, D.C.

1-»

 

Cape Cod’s dunes have been saved for posterity through federal and local action
but bitter battles rage over the dune areas in Michigan, Indiana, and Oregon.

the nine in megalopolis with the great-
est nulnber of standard metropolitan
statistical arcas (SMSA’S) per square
mile of land area. Its population is
something in excess of 5,100,000 (In
cxcess of half the total population live
within twenty-five miles of the city of
Boston.)

There is little need to dwell on what
is happening in the Bay State. As else-
where, it, too, is experiencing popula-
tion explosions in the towns adjacent
to the large metropolitan centers. Land
-—good land—is being gobbled up
quickly for residential development;
other land is being set aside for indus-
trial development, and, amidst this tre-
mendous building spree, little or no
attention has been devoted to the pres-
ervation of areas for future watersheds,

for parks, for recreation lands——for
what we refer to as “open Space.”

The selectmen in the towns, vested
with management responsibilities, are
busily engaged with problems asso-
ciated with public works, with expan-
sion of fire and police dcpartment, and
othcr mundane matters. Planning
hoards find their time almost entirely
consumed by subdivision control prob-
lems. Boards of health are concerning
themselves with testing the quality of
land for private sewage disposal sys-
tems. Scbool committees, confronted
with a young population problem, are
doing away with obsoletc frame struc-
tures and planning and building new
schools, almost in a single action. This
has meant that no one on the local scene
has bad time to give much heed to the

fact that available land has been utilized
zlmost completely for uses other than
(onservation and recreation.

Then came the necessary shot-in-the-
arm, in the form of a permissive piece
pf legislation. With the support of the

ronservation interests, a statute (Chap-
er 223, Acts of 1957) was passed by
he State Legislature and signed into
aw by the governor by which cities and
owns were authorized to create local
:onservation commissions. These local
)odies were broadly charged with the
levelopment and protection of the na-
:ural resources of the community. Al-
nost simultaneously with the passage
of this legislation came the appointment
of a young, knowledgeable and agres-
sive state commissioner of natural re-
sources, Charles H. W. Foster. He, in
turn, appointed a talented young man

as his assistant in the person of Robert
L. Yasi. (See Mr. Foster’s article “Rec-

reation Demands on Public Water Sup-
plies,” RECREATION, June 1962.)

THE COMMISSIONER saw, in approval
of this statute, a potential cure for
the disappearance of the greenbelt
areas, and he set about to educate local
officials on the need to accept this legis-
lation and the need to appoint compe-
tent members to serve on the community

conservation commission. Local com-
missions have been set up in 155 cities

and towns. The vast majority have or-
ganized and are hard at work attempt-
ing to select logical areas to be saved
in perpetuity for’ conservation uses.

In addition to these local programs,
and supplementing the same, the depart-
ment of natural resources has launched
meetings with the United States Soil
Conservation Service, the Bureau of
Government Research at the Univer-
sity of Massachusetts, Cooperative Ex-
tension Service, the State Division of
Fisheries and Game, the State Division
on Planning, and other government
agencies. The goal of these conferences
is to seek to coordinate programs and

projects through the newly forged tool:
the community conservation commis-

sion.

As a .result of these confrontations,
evening training workshops have been
created. The attendees are the appointed
members of the local commissions. The

JUNE, 1963

 

lecturers are th. technicians of the state
and federal agencies.

ASSACIIUSETTS took another step
forward in 1960, when it became
the first state in the nation to provide
financial assistance to Cities and towns
for Open-space programs. In that year,
the State Legislature passed a second
important statute ( Chapter 517 of the
Acts of 1960), which delegated to the
commissioner of natural resources re-
sponsibilities of establishing broad
conservation programs, of coordinating
such programs with those of local con-
servation commissions. and, finally, of
reimbursing cities and towns up to half
of the costs of land acquisition and
recreation planning programs.

The unique feature of this legislation
is that the total responsibility of plan-
ning, financing, and carrying through
with a given local project rests solely
with the municipal commission and the
properties acquired remain under local
management and control. The State
Department of Natural Resources acts
as the professional consultant, working
along with each commission, offering
technical help and assistance. The limi-
tations of assistance are due only to the
relatively small number of staff with
the state agency.

OW, the real test of the pie is not in
how it is made, nor whether the
Droper ingredients go into it, but rather
how edible the final product is. We may
well ask: “What effective action has
been brought about by these two sta-
tutes?” In one community, the com-
mission decided to communicate with
every resident listed in the town direc-
tory, acquainting him with the commis-

sion, its goals and purposes, and asking
for helpful suggestions. Another mu-
nicipal commission has set about to
compile a complete dossier on all avail-
able lands, evaluating such land in
terms of present and future needs.
Working along with the planning board,
it has assisted in the preparation of the
community’s comprehensive plan, by
delineating areas felt to be logical prop-
erties for conservation uses. A third
commission is working along with the
board of water commissioners in select-
ing land for future water eXploration.
In acquiring land, it has recommended
the purchasc of adjacent land for a
coordinated recreation program.

In one region, four conservation
commissions have banded together to
support a program of acquiring some
eleven thousand acres of flood plain
properties to be set aside permanently
for public use. (Local officials are also
working with federal officials in the
establishment of the new Cape Cod
National Seashore.) Finally, the 155
local commissions have formed a state-
wide association; they have retained an
executive secretary; and currently, they
are scheduling meetings for the inter-
change of information.

In the words of Commissioner Foster,
“The municipal conservation commis-
sion movement offers a promising tool
in the universal struggle against wasted
resources and unchecked urban sprawl.
Its acceptance at the local level may
mean the difference between a com-
munity precipitated into hasty and cost-
ly development, and one whose growth
is carefully tailored to meet its future
needs for water supply, waste disposal,
flood control, recreation, wildlife, edu- .
cation, and open space.” #

 

 

Healthful fun for every age group!
DIMCO SHUFFLEBOARD

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

Children. young people. adults . .
Dimco Shuttleboard for excitement. relaxation and
wholesome exercisel Court diagram can easily be laid.
indoors or outdoors.
low-price "Sunlife" or premium-quality "Free-Glide"
lines. comes in sturdy Regulation Sets or Junior Sets
(2/3 regulation size).

. everyone enjoys

Famous Dimco equipment. in

FREE . . . Court layout plans. game rules. catalog of
Dimco shuffleboard sets. Write today to:

DIMCO-GRAY, 205 E. Sixth St, Dayton 2, Ohio

263

   

*" If . '° 0 I]
...0MM|JNITY

 

In Part I, which appeared last month, Mr. Krughojf de-
fined a community survey and discussed its values and limi-
tations. He declared that the six requirements for the
success of a survey were Attitude: positive, self-critical,
open-minded; Committee: strong, representative, hard-
working; Team: expert consultants; Involvement: gcnu-
ine participation of agencies and community leaders; Os-
mosis: tirne for discussion and absorption; and No Let-
Down: immediate and continuing follow-up. Here he
develops each of these requirements.

ATTITUDE: What community climate is necessary before
we can successfully embark upon a community survey?
Clues may be found in the answers to the following ques-
tions: Who wants the survey? Why do they want it? Do
they want it enongh to work at it?

If only a few contributors want the study and agencies
generally do not want it, a poor basis exists for getting the
facts or kindling the enthusiasm necessary to get action on
findings. If only a few agencies are interested, it will be hard
to convince contributors and taXpayers to put up the money
needed to carry out recommendations. If a newspaper, a
labor union, a service club, or any other single group is
carrying the cudgels for the study pretty much alone, it will
have the overtones of an inquisition, with resulting negativc
effects. One interest may spark the idea, but broad agree-
ment on its desirability should be attained before going

ahead.

Motivation is important. It is natural to want to save
money. A survey should indicate ways to save money; but,
almost inevitably, it will also show where more money
should be spent. In one city a survey which was promoted
as a means of saving money backfired when a larger goal
was set in the Community Chest campaign the following
year. Some larger contributors, said, “You had a survey to
save money; don’t come to me asking for more.”

 

MR. KRUGHOFF is director for the Institute of Community
Studies, United Community Funds and Councils of America.

9.64.

:.AKES

Six requirements for
success

MERRILL F. KRUGHOFF

It, is legitimate to want outmoded services eliminated, but
advertising that purpose puts all agencies on the defensive.
It closes minds at the beginning, whereas open minds are a
prerequisite to serious consideration of proposals for
change. Don’t do a survey to prove a point or to document
a predetermined course of action.

A good climate exists when there is a sincere desire on
the part of contributors and agencics to get the facts ob-
jectively and to follow these facts to their logical conclusion
in the form of specific changes to be made in order to better
serve the community. There should be a self-critical attitude
on the part of agency boards and staffs. There must be a
readiness to consider new ideas even if they may mean dis-
carding long-established organizational forms or service pat-
terns. There must be willingness to dig out the facts and to
devote much time to serious discussion of the findings.

The survey should he problem-ccntered,‘ it should look
at needs. A study of agencies which starts with the assump-
tion that present structures are right will fail to serve the
community. New or revamped structures may be needed.
A study of voluntary agencies alone is usually not sufficient.
In reviewing methods of meeting needs, the services of both
governmcnt and voluntary auspices must bc considcred.

An extensive period of exploration should precede the
undcrtaking of a community survey. The objectives should
be clear and should be generally understood by financing
groups, planning groups, and the agencies. Furthermore,
there should be broad understanding of the scope, depth,
method and timing of the study.

COMMITTEE: Sometimes a community asks a national
agency or other outside group to “sponsor” a survey. This
is wrong. The survey must be locally sponsored. A strong,
representative citizens committee is essential. This commit-
tee should be composed of volunteers who have stature with
the agencies and in the community at large. The citizens
committee should take genuine responsibility for the survey.
Its members should be prepared to devote a substantial
amount of time and effort in the project, a matter of days

DthH A mini?

:ltogether, not just a few hours. The citizens committee
provides the overall leadership. It should:

- Sponsor the study.

0 Consider all major issues after reviewing the facts and
veighing opinions of the consultants and all groups having
egitimate interest in or influence upon outcomes.

s Agree upon reeommendations and take responsibility for
hem as practical guidelines for community action. Recom-
nendations are those of the committee and are issued over
.ts name.

0 Disseminate the findings and recommendations and se-
3ure acceptance of their validity.

o Endeavor to secure action on the recommendations by
“agencies, budgeting and allocating bodies, and the general

public.
TEAM OF CONSULTANTS: A team of experts from out-

side the community gives assurance that pertinent facts will
be gathered and reviewed, that experience of other com-
munities will be brought into the study, and that top-notch
professional opinion will be considered in formulating rec-
'ommendations. The team may consist of the study director
and one to a dozen or more specialists. In simple surveys,
the study director alone may be the “team.” The outside
consultant can bring to the study expertness and impartiality
not available locally. The study team of survey director and
other expert consultants should have the knowledge and
skills necessary to help the citizens committee reach sound
conclusions. The study director is in a crucial position to
guide the study-agreement-aetion sequence of the survey
process. The professional stature of the study team mem-
bers in their respective areas and their knowledge of national
standards will directly influence acceptance of findings. The
study team helps the community work out a practical set of
goals. It does not set these goals for the community. There
is no point in writing down any formal recommendations
which the team cannot persuade a representative citizens
committee to accept as a practical basis for action. The
study team has the following responsibilities; it:

0 Guides the collection of pertinent facts and does first-
hand observation, interviewing, study of community prob-
lems and agency services.

0 Provides up-to-date professional opinion about the or-
ganization, the adequacy and the effectiveness of the health
and welfare program in the community.

0 Stimulates the agencies to consider new ideas and new
and better ways of doing things.

0 Poses issues along with recommendations on action.

I Assists the citizens: committee to reach practical recom-
mendations and gain community acceptance for them.

0 Helps the citizens committee prepare its final report.

0 Can be called upon during the follow-up period to help
put recommendations into effect.

Selection and recruitment of the combination of experts
which is right for the scope and depth of the particular study
is one of the most important functions of the study director.
Of course, it is important to have competency in the specific
professional areas covered by the survey. A person having
knowledge and experience in recreation, for example, is
needed to advise on recreation programs, not on correc~

I JUNE, 1963

tions. A management consultant may be fine for studie: of
internal agency management, but not on standards and pro-
fessional components of adoption services. However,
professional status in a given service field is not enough.
The team members must be practical, with experience in
administering programs as well as academic knowledge.
They must understand the community organization process.
T hcy need a sense of balance and perspective. They should
have outstanding communication skills, both orally and in
writing.

A well-written report is very helpful in gaining under-
standing and acceptance of findings. It should spell out the
reasoning behind each major recommendation. Many long,
beautifully written and attractively printed reports have
gathered dust on the shelves. More productive than written
reports are the team’s faee-to-faee contacts with agencies.
the citizens committee, and community groups. A good
study team stimulates thought, presents and interprets new
ideas, and develops conviction, which is the basis for future
action. One of the biggest values of a survey is the intensive
in-serviee training program conducted by the top experts
brought into the community. It is desirable if the team
members can continue their relationship during the follow-
up period to help answer questions which may be raised
about recommendations and advise on specific means of
carrying them out.

INVOLVEMENT: Agency participation in a survey is
fundamental. It should be real. It should be continuous,
from development of the prospectus for the study, through
the gathering of information, to the development of findings
and recommendations. Genuine agency participation re-
quires involvement of board members as well as staff mem-
bers. Each agency board or governing body should set up
a self-study committee of three to five of its members. This
group, working with the staff of the agency, will review the
agency’s own purposes, program, plans for the future. It
will critically examine the adequacy of its operation in rela-
tion to the known volume of the community needs it aims to
meet and in relation to accepted standards of service in its
field work. The agency self-study committee brings to the
citizens survey committee the results of this agency self-
evaluation, along with information about community prob-
lems as seen from the agency’s vantage point. Thus, a liaison '
group is available for easy two-way communication between
the agency and citizens survey committee.

An agency self-study outline should he prepared for use
by all agencies in their participation. This outline serves
two purposes: it provides an organized way for the agency
to examine its own program and it provides a standardized
form for reporting facts and opinions to the citizens com-
mittee and study team. The following information should
be provided by each agency:

0 Facts about volume and cost of services.
0 Information about agcney objectives and future plans.

0 Facts and opinions about community problems, including
needs met and unmet.

0 Information about gaps, duplications, outmoded services,
and inefiieiencies. l——)

265

0 Suggestions for improvement of the community’s social
service system.

0 Opinions as to the soundness and practicality of pre-
liminary findings and recommendations.

The strong agencies with qualified staffs and experienced,
community-minded board members will make the more sig-
nificant contributions to the survey. They will see that their
participation requires more than a reporting of statistics or
financial data or a restatement of agency ambitions. An
honest effort to seek the thinking of agency people produces
worthwhile information, even from the weaker agencies.

Participation extends beyond the agencies. The concerns
and judgements of supporters and users of service, as well
as the providers, should be sought. These are reached
through civic organizations, business management, or-
ganized labor, United Fund campaign leaders, public offi-
cials, media of public information, and professional associa-
tions. It is necessary to allow sufficient time for involvement
of these various interested individuals and groups in the
collection of information and in the formulation of findings.

The public-relations component of a community survey
is very important and requires careful handling. Therc
should be continuous releases of information about the study
plan, sponsorship, steps in the process and the general direc-
tion of findings. On the other hand, no public release of
criticisms of individual agencies or specific recommenda-
tions for changes in agencies should be made until thc
agencies have had an opportunity to consider them and to
discuss them with the citizens committee.

OSMOSIS: A successful survey requires the blending of
local ideas with the opinions of outside experts. Actually,
there are four parties to a survey: the citizens committee;
the agencies; the study team; standard setting agencics at
state and national levels. Time should be allowed to pro-
vide for osmosis—for the interchange and absorption of
ideas among these four parties. Never put a survey under
forced draft.

The citizens committee has major responsibility for adapt-
ing the ideas of the experts for application in the particular
community, in full knowledge of the experiences and atti-
tudes of the agencies.

The study team assists, stimulates, and helps direct corn-

LANNING, in the beginning, was concerned chiefly
with material developments, such as routes of
communication and major improvements. The human
elements were frequently neglected. Now we know that
adequate planning can do much to adjust and regulate
some of our stubborn social and economic problems,
and it has become the obligation of planners to work
for a finer cooperation between industrial, economic

and recreational resources, and thus bring about a more
secure life for everyone. . . . progress in the future will
be . . . built on the firmer foundation of a more com-
plete coordination of the various elements that tend
to make a more complete and satisfactory community

life—PENNSYLVANIA ASSOCIATION OF PLANNING

COMMISSIONERS.

 

266

munity thinking about the social service program and po-
tentials for improvement.

The local agencies bring to bear in the situation their
knowledge and experience from the frontline of community
service, thus helping deve10p recommendations which they
will be called upon to put into effect.

The standard setting agencies, national and state, which
have responsibility for consultation, supervision, or stand-
ard setting can contribute national experience. They can
help the community to carry out recommendations through
their continuing working relationships with local agencies.

Blending the contributions of these four groups in such a
way as to arrive at broadly based agreement upon goals and
courses of action holds the secret of a survey that will result
in community action. This process is built upon mutual
respect. It takes time. It is both the most difficult and the
most important part of the survey.

The basic tcchnique in the process of osmosis is the tech-
nique of group thinking, most commonly and most effective-
ly secured through the device of the committee, although
conferences, interviews, and questionnaires are also useful.
In comprehensive surveys it is desirable to set up advisory
study panels in each major study area, composed of repre-
sentatives of agencies and other groups concerned.

The citizens survey committee will find it helpful to assign
special problems to task forces. In some instances, task
forces have been organized to inspect physical plants of
agencies, review salaries and personncl practices, establish
liaison with such groups as media of public information,
public officials, and civic organizations.

The absorption process extends bcyond the committee,
the study team, and the agcncies to other groups and forccs.
In one community a series of luncheon and dinner Inectings
was scheduled to rcport and intcrpret findings to key com-
munity leaders. These meetings devcloped understanding
and conviction among some eighty government, industrial,
and fund-raising leaders in positions of influence.

The term self-survey is sornetimcs used to distinguish a
study done by local peoplc, with only bricf consultation of
outsidcrs, from the survey directed by outside expcrts. The
distinction is not clear cut. All community surveys should
be self-surveys, in the sense that local people make the final
decisions. Differences in the proportions of the “mix”—
local people and outsidcrs—depend largely upon the degree
to which qualitative evaluation is included in the survey’s
purpose, but local involvement, absorption, and understand-
ing are essential in all cascs.

NO LET-DOWN: If all the steps in the preparation, the

study proccss, and transmission of reports to agencies and
community are done well the chances of implemcntation are
good. Just one more cssential elemcntmthcre must be ma-
chinery for follow-up. There can be no let-down.

A comprehensive detailed, evaluative survey should he
undcrtaken only if there is a strong community planning
hody for follow-up. An inventory or general appraisal type
of survey may be undertaken in situations where adcquate
ccntral coordinating and planning machincry is not present.
provided the outlook is good for establishment of a planning

body. #

Dnnnn ‘ mini?

T.LOUISisacity
S revitalized —-
growing and meet-
ing the park and
recreation chal-
lenges of the sixties.
In 1955, the citi-
zens of St. Louis
tverwhelmingly approved a whopping

$110,000,000 bond issue for public im-
)rovements, and $11,000,000 of this
las been devoted to the acquisition,
levelopment, and improvement of park
and recreation facilities.

Delegates to the 1963 National Rec-
reation Congress are in for many eye-
opening surprises! Let’s take a quick

 

 

Mas. BRUNGARD is director of the St.
Louis Department of Parks, Recreation,
and Forestry.

look back and ht": what’s been happen-
ing to the park and recreation move-
ment here in St. Louis since the last Na-
tional Recreation Congress held herc
just nine years ago. Backin 1954, parks
and recreation was a division of the
sprawling St. Louis Department of Pub-
lic Welfare. Thc division was headed
by a commissioner of parks and recrea-
tion, who held the reins over a superin-
tendent of recreation and city forester.

Then, in April of 1959, the citizens of
St. Louis voted to amcud the city char-
ter. One amendment called for the split-
ting-up of the Department of Public
Welfare into three separate depart-
ments. Thus was born the present St.
Louis Department of Parks, Recreation,
and Forestry. The department’s three
major divisions are each headed by a

A City Revitalized

St. Louis, host city for the

45th National Recreation Congress,

September 3—0ct0ber 4, 1963

The hyperboloid Planetarium Spirals visitors
through the orbitting wonders of the universe.

A downtown oasis, Lucas Garden, is
surrounded by old and new architecture.

 

 

MRS. EDWARD G. BRUNGARD

commissioner, who is a member of the
mayor’s cabinet. The dcpartment em-
ploys over eight hundred regular full-
time persons and has an annual oper-
ating budget of $3,500,000.

Some of the most notable park and
recreation additions since 1954 include
two new recreation centers, the DeSoto

Rccreation Center, completed in 1962,
and the David P. Wohl Recreation Cen-

ter with its superb indoor-outdoor swim-
ming pool. The million-dollar outdoor
Stcinbcrg Skating Rink in St. Louis’
scenic Forest Park has attracted over
a million ice skaters since its opening
in 1957 (see RECREATION, December
1960}. St. Louisans also take pride in

their new Planetarium, a million-dollar

bond-issue project. This unique hyper-
boloid building was awarded the Pro-

gressive Architecture Design Award in
the category of Public Use (see RECRE-
ATION, January 1962, Page 35 ) .

What does St. Louis have to offer its
citizens in the way of municipal recrea-
tion programs? Well, since 1954 the
recreation division has more than dou-
bled su1nmer playground facilities. This
tremendous program expansion was oc-
casioned by the taking over of all public-
school playgrounds in the city by the
division.

Through the wonderful cooperation
of Mayor Raymond R. Tucker, the rec-
reation division was able to negotiate
a contract with the board of education
that, for the first time, provided an
equitable use of facilities by both agen-
cies. This contract heralds a new rela-
tionship between the St. Louis Depart-
ment of Parks, Recreation and Forestry
and the St. Louis Board of Education,
and the kind of relationship that now
exists gives hopes of even greater co-'
ordination of programs and joint use
of facilities in coming years.

Last year, the summer program saw
the opening of 105 sunnner playgrounds
and fifteen swimming pools. The rec-
reation division assumed supervision
and control of seven indoor pools lo-
cated at public high schools. This, of
course, was a tremendous addition to
the city’s program.

To illustrate the coopcration that ex-
ists between the dcparttnent and the
board of education, the recreation divi-

Continued on Page 28 1
267

 Na t Q Who are the most outstanding

Testing

boys and girls in the

physical-fitness programs

 m of the recreation and park departments?

BEN YORK

ENRY CLAY said, “Of all human
H powers operating on the affairs
of mankind, none is greater
than that of competition,” and “compe-
tition” has been one of the keystones in
the broad-scale sports programs of the
nation’s recreation and parks depart-
ments. Last summer the Public Recrea-
tion Committee of the Amateur Athletic
Union of the United States, on which
the National Recreation Association is
represented, introduced a program on
a “selected basis” to identify the most
outstanding boys and girls in the AAU
Physical Fitness Testing Program. For
a program-on-trial, success can he re-
ported as the top boys and girls in each
of the six age groups were identified and
honored at appropriate ceremonies by
local officials. The governor of Indiana
oiliciated in one case, the governor of
New Mexico in another, as well as the
mayors of Morristown, New Jersey, and
West Palm Beach, Florida. In all cases,
the local recreation and parks depart-
rnent leaders participated in the honors
ceremonies.

As originally conceived, the AAU
Physical Fitness Testing Program. now
in its fifteenth year, was one for mass
participation. Its objective was to find
out how many youngsters could attain
the standards established by a commit-
tee of qualified and recognized profes-
sionals in the field of physical educa-
tion. Over ten million youngsters be-
tween the ages of six and eighteen have
qualified for the AAU Achievement
Certificates.

However, just qualifying for an
achievement certificate was not enough

 

MR. YORK is superintendent of reerea-
tion, in West Palm Beach, Florida, and
chairman, of the AA U Public Recreation
Committee.

268

in the eyes of the AAU Public Recrea-
tion Committee. This committee felt
every boy and girl in the United States
not only should maintain their physical
fitness but also needed motivation to go
above and beyond accepted standards.
Furthermore, the committee felt the test-
ing program offered an excellent oppor-
tunity for competition among the out-
standing youngsters and a program to
identify the most outstanding boys and
girls was launched last summer.

A subcommittee, appointed by the
chairman of the Public Recreation Com-
mittee and headed by Nathan L. Malli-
son, superintendent of recreation in
Jacksonville. Florida, completed a study
of the scoring system used last summcr.
A revised scoring system will be used
this year. The committee thinks the new
scoring system presents an excellent
evaluation of the actual performances of
the boys and girls in each of the skill
tests designed to measure fitness in the
areas of speed, endurance, strength, and
agility. The AAU Physical Fitness Test
is a hexathlon (six events) made up of
five required and one optional event in
which each boy and girl pcrforms
against a standard established for his or

SCORE

ncoumco evens |

her age. The boy or girl must equal or
exceed the established standard for all
six events.

Mr. Mallison, an able recreation oili-
cial concerned with physical proficiency
tests for forty years, played a major
role in devising the scoring system. The
gradations which have been adOptcd are
simple for administrative purposes and
reasonably well equated to assure a fair
and equitable system of evaluation.
Award points are given only for per-
formances that better the established
standard. It is a fair system that corn-
pares the physical-fitness abilities of
youngsters within each sex-age group in
these recognized tests for four important
and basic qualities. Listed below is the
scoring system, adopted by the AAU
Public Recreation Committee for 1963,
with a sample scoring for boys who may
be competing in the twelve and thirteen
age group.

This summer the objective is to have
programs at each playground in which
champions will be crowned in each of
the six age groups. From the individual
playgrounds we shall be striving to find
the “tops” in each city, county, and dis-

Continued on, Page 284

Standard Example

 

 

SPRlNTS: One point for each tenth at a second better than the 9 sec. 8.5 5
standard

WALK AND RUN: One polnt tor each ten seconds below the standard. 11 min. t O:t O 5
No lractional points

StTllPS: One polnt tor each situp In excess ot the standard. 20 35 is
lime limit. one mlnute

PllllllPS: One point tor each pulfttp In excess ol the standard. 5 14 9
No rest perlod at more than one second between pull-
ups.

STANDING BROAD One polnt tor each inch In excess ot the standard. 5% ll. 7% l8

JUMPS: No tractional points

OPTIONAL EVENT

BASEBAllTHROW: One point tor each live leet in excess ol the standard 100 ll. lZO-G 4

(twelve-Inches circumlerence ball). No lractional points
l t Total | 56
RECREATION

(

planes, and so-called flabby Amer-

icans, most of us find a need for sol-
Etude and physical outdoor activity.
Not finding the local country club or
recreation center the answer to our
family’s needs, we investigated and
found that there is nothing like the
Appalachian Mountain Club but system
in the White Mountains of New
Hampshire.

[N THESE DAYS of superhighways, jet

Last summer, like many other na-
ture lovers, we climbed to the t0p of
the rugged White Mountains, hiked
across cool green forest of spruce, yel-
low and paper birch through well-
marked trails of breathtaking scenery
to the AMC huts.

These mountain hotels, some of
them five thousand feet up, are reached
by foot only. Each AMC but is a day’s
hike from the other. A hiker can tramp
through green mountain forest for
seven or eight days without tent, sleep-
ing bag, food, or much preparation.
You can even have your lunch packed
for you at a hut.

Our family uses Franconia Notch
State Park in Franconia. New Hamp-
shire, as our home base. Here we
pitch our tent at Lafayette Campground
and get into our sneakers. If you don’t
camp, this whole area is blanketed with
motels of every price and description.

Lonesome Lake Trail, one of hun-
dreds maintained by the Appalachian
-Mountain Club, starts at the parking
area of Lafayette Campground. This
trail, one and a quarter miles to Lone-
some Lake Hlit, is the shortest and
therefore ideal for beginners. The trail
is well marked; even our eleven-year-
old girl could follow it. Our lungs
filled with the fresh odor of fir and pine
as we tramped into the dense forest.
Every running brook was a joyful sight.
Our two girls would dip their feet in BLANCHE HACKS”
the water and shriek with delight at the
coldness of the mountain water. The
trees began to appear shorter and the fir
and spruce more abundant as we in the mountains of New Hampshire
climbed up through the sun-streaked
trail. Except for the continued clatter
of rocks as they slid under our feet,

 

Hikers find unsuspected accommodations

MRS. HACKETT, an ardent proponent of
family hiking, lives in, Cresskill, New
Jersey.

JUNE, 1963 269

wildlife seemed still and we felt pleas-
antly alone.

After an hour of breathtaking scen-
er} the trail became completely hidden
on both sides by shrubbery. W e were
not prepared for the sudden appearance
of a group of rustic cabins with a mag-
niiicent smooth blue lake as a front-
yard. We stood dazzled by the after-
noon sun gleaming through the green
mountain peaks that surrounded Lone-

some Lake.

THE BOYS who man these AMC huts
are handpicked high-school and
college students who cook all the meals
and do the general housekeeping. These
boys also backpack all the food and
supplies in loads of a hundred pounds to
the huts. The hutmen are usually ath-
letes who welcome the opportunity to
work during the summer and keep in
training for the winter sports activities.

This but, like the other seven AMC
huts on the Presidential Range, pro-
vides bunks, mattresses, pillows, and
hlankets in dormitory style for men and
women. The approximate cost to stay
overnight is $7.25; this includes lodg-
dinner, and breakfast. A trail

 

    

GET THE GUS
T0 VOCALIZE

WIIH
NATIDNAL'S DANDY

“SING-ALONG SONG SLIDES"!!

Meetings that begin or end with sing-along sessions
are successful meetings! Watch your gang warm up
fast with a lusty group sing! Send for National's
fantastic free catalog of more than 850 all-time hit
songs. available in slide form for as low as 5°C a
tune! Need a proiector? Let us know . . . we'll save
y0u real dough! Write today to:

NATIONAL STUDIOS
45 West 48th Street. N. Y. 35. N. Y.

 

  

HIE PERFEC} PACKAGED SHEHER!

 r W

’ FREIGHT PAID
KWlK-Blll, lNC. Box 6834, Dallas '19, Tex.

270

        

lunch to take with you is $.75. Children
under ten accompanied with parents are
half rate. Meals are served at 7AM, 12
noon and 6PM, family style, hearty but
not fancy and snacks at all times.

The trail to Greenleaf Hut was even
more beautiful. As it became slippery,
we found that large sticks made good
canes and were helpful in making the
ascent easier. The trail was rough g0-
ing. Carol, our eight-year-old, sat down
and announced, “Someone made a mis—
take. This is not hiking, this is moun-
tain climbing.” We all laughed in
complete agreement, then collapsed next
to her.

The view became more exciting after
an hour’s climb. A small brown circle
in the forest below us was our camp-
ground. Even Cannon Mountain Aerial
Tramway was soon below us. Vermont
could be seen in the horizon from the
Greenleaf Hut lookout.

Three hours later we staggered in-
to Greenleaf Hut and learned that we
hiked approximately a mile an hour.
The hutmen can do much better with a
hundred pounds of groceries on their
backs. We found it important to know
how much mileage we could cover in
an hour, since it enabled us to plan late
afternoon hikes and not be caught in
strange woods at night.

Greenleaf Hut is a stone-frame build-
ing that can house forty-four guests,
dormitory style. The dining room or
family room with a kitchen are in the
center of the but. The men and women’s
dormitory with hunks three high are
on either side. The girls naturally had
to take a rest on the top bunks. After
their rest, they decided they wanted to
stay overnight. It didn’t take us long to
realize that the running water in the
restrooms helped convince them. We
sat down at the large wooden table to
eat lunch with a bay window giving us
a peek at the Great Stone Face plus a
terrific view of Mount Lafayette. We
were speechless when the hutmen
charged us 3.35 for a thick roast-beef
sandwich.

LIKE MOST IIIKERS, we “climbed” to
the summit of Mt. Washington by
the cogr railway. This sightseeing rail-
road began Operation in 1869 and can
make the trip to the summit in an hour
and a half. Once at the summit we ex-

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

plored Summit House and the other in-
teresting buildings that can be visited
by the tourist. We especially enjoyed
reading the different clocks and graph
at the US. weather station. This build-
ing, one of the strongest in the country,
has recorded the highest winds in the
world. These mountains suffer some of
the most violent and unpredictable
weather in America and are a source
of danger to the careless or unwary
hiker.

Fortified with jackets and candy bars,
we began our tramp down. The trail
markers are quite plain here since the
summit is treeless and fog can come up
very quickly. Close markers keep people
from getting lost. The Crawford Path
which we followed is one of the most
weather-beaten places in the mountains
and we were glad to beat the fog to
the long, stone-and-wood structure of
the Lakes-of-the-Clouds. This hut has
an altitude of five thousand feet and
is the highest of the huts. As in the
other huts, refreshments and lodging
for ninety is for the asking. Happily,
the girls announced that these restrooms
had running water also. Here at the
Lakes-of-the-Clouds we exchanged trail
talk with the other hikers. We all be-
came more enthusiastic about hiking as
we listened to each other’s adventures
on the different trails.

At Crawford Notch you can rent
saddle horses and gaHOp the winding
trail to Mount Willard. Pinkham Notch
Camp, headquarters of the hut system,
a group of log and frame buildings,
bunks a hundred guests and is open
year-round. This camp is a convenient
base for skiing at Wildcat and Tucker-
men Ravines.

The Appalachian Mountain Club
puhlishes maps, guide hooks and main-
tains hundred of miles of trails, includ-
ing the famed Appalachian Trail. The
club’s magazine, Appalachia, is filled
with information for hikers. ( See also
“Mountain Leadership,” RECREATION,
May 1963.) The AMC hut system opens
the middle of June and closes Septem-
ber 15.

Once you, as a weary hiker, have
received a hearty welcome at a but, and
seen the sunset over the Great Stone
Face, you will feel compelled to tramp
the mountains and visit the “huts” again
and again as we do. 

RECREATION

a

A REPORTER’S NOTEBOOK

 

Project Moonbeam

An amateur satellite-tracking station,
begun as a hobby, is making important
contributions to America’s space pro-
gram. Among other achievements, it has
been able to determine the weight of or-
biting satellites. This will help make
possible the ferreting out of any secret
Soviet “spy-in-the-sky” satellite.

Project Moonbeam, as the station is
known, began in 1956 with a group of
scientists at an oil-research laboratory
in 3 Cleveland suburb. Wanting to build
their own tracking station, they asked
permission to use the company’s labo-
ratory facilities. What they lacked in
cash, they made up in ingenuity, reports
Petroleum Today in its Winter 1962-63
issue. Working on their own time, they
used idle or outmoded equipment to
build an antenna system. Electronic
equipment was improvised or purchased
from government surplus. As the proj-
ect progressed, the company contrib-
uted a small grant and area firms pro-
vided additional materials.

The scientists had their station ready
by January 29, 1958—just forty-eight
hours before the launching of Explorer
I. News of the successful tracking of
this satellite by Project Moonbeam was
quickly spread by news media, and the
station has served as a source of accu-
rate information about other satellites
ever since. The scientists have accu-
rately tracked scores of satellites, in-
cluding Russia’s twin space ships, Vos-
tok III and Vostok IV. Clear voice trans-
missions of the Soviet cosmonauts were
translated into English at the station by
a local priest of the Russian Orthodox
Church.

During the summer of 1958, a group
of serious-minded high-school boys vis-
ited the station and asked to join the
project. The scientists accepted their
help. One student developed a computer
program which has since been distribu-
ted to scientific journals throughout the
world. He also designed a satellite
tracker which replaced older equip-
ment. Other youths were soon prepar-
ing highly scientific theses on space ex-
ploration and satellite tracking—some

JUNE, 1963

beyond the knowledge of the scientists
themselves.

As the students went on to college and
graduate studies, several kept up their
work with Project Moonbeam. Three
or four high-school recruits are now
chosen each year from the dozens who
apply, and observers feel that the lab
has become a training ground for some
of the area’s most brilliant youngsters.
The scientists and students have ob-
tained a radio telescope and a tower and
are working together to fashion a sys-
tem whereby they may be among thc
first to watch, on a television receiver,
man’s first probes and exploration of
the moon.

Bringng Back the Totem

A huge American Indian totem pole
was dedicated in the Lewiston Valley
area near Tamaqua, Pennsylvania, on
May 26. The Tamaqua Totem stands
twenty feet tall. Surmounted by the tra-
ditional thunderbird, it has an eight-foot
wingspread. The totem shows the sym-
bols used in rituals of the ancient East-
ern woodland Indians and symbols of
the Indian families that once lived in
Pennsylvania, including the Tamaqua
area. Chief Lightfoot Talking Eagle and
his wife, Princess Fleet Deer, directed
the dedication. Reservation Indians
were invited to assist. Chief Lightfoot
and Princess Fleet Deer, non-reserva-

 

Big Kickoff. During last year’s Rec-
reation Month celebration, Joseph Hal-
per (right), director of recreation in
Oceanside, New York, and president of
the Long Island Recreation and Parks
Association, put this message across
with the aid of Joseph Carlino, speakcr
of the state House of Representatives.

tion Indians who live near Tamaqua,
designed the Tamaqua Totem, as well as
several others. The brightly painted
symbols were carved in relief on the
eighteen-inch cedar pole. The totem
pole was carved by Vincent Bendinsky
of Wyalusing, who has carved several
other totems designed by Lightfoot and
Fleet Deer.

Tepees will be erected around the
pole to create an Indian village appear-
ance and the area will be landscaped.
At the site of the totem last autumn,
Lightfoot and Fleet Deer held a six-hour
ceremonial council fire. They rededi-
cated the site to the American Indian
and gave it the name “Village of the
White Deer.” The nearby Beaver Creek
gorge was renamed “Warrior Gorge”
and the high mountains, “Warrior
Mountains.” The Indian couple have
been responsible for a new wave of in-
terest in Pennsylvania Indians, whose
history often outshines that of their
Western cousins.

Film Service

Recreation departments don’t always
know what they are getting into when
they take something on. Early last year,
the Cobourg, Ontario, RecreatiOn Com-
mission assumed the administration of
the Cobourg Fihn Council, which was
started in 1961 and operated for a short
time by the Chamber of Commerce.
Recreation Director J. C. Thorsen re-
ports, “The growth of this community
service has been impressive. Member-
ship now stands at nearly twenty-five
Cobourg and district groups and indi-
viduals making use of the films and
equipment available through the coun-
cil. An indication of the council’s de-
velopment: in the 1961-62 season there
were twenty-seven equipment bookings
and fifty for films from the council;
from September 15 to December 31,
1962 there were thirty-one equipmcnt
bookings and 128 for films. The com-
mission is pleased to have had a part in
the growth of this activity, but feels the
service will not always necessarily be a
function of its office or staff.”

Continued on Page 287
271

From sea to shining sea.
l .mng cyclists explore the quaint
island of old Nantucket.

 

PROGRAM
WONDER AS YOU

WANDER

Hosteling provides adventures,
opportunity to wander,

time to wonder

about the mysteries of the universe

REYNOLD E. CARLSON

T HROUCHOUT re-
corded history,
man has had the
urge to wander, to

see new sights, to
meet strange peo-

 

Low-cost accommodations, such as

this hostel in Bowmansville, Pennsylvania,
allow young people to discover

our nation’s scenic and historic marvels.

 

ple, to examine
customs different
from his own, to find beauty in nature,
and to experience the exhilaration of

Only when we abandon the walking. riding, sailing, or canoeina.

automobile and set

out on our own two feet
can we really see

what our country is like.

Man has also always been interested in
the travel of others, whether it he the
mythical wanderings of Ulysses, the
adventures of Marco Polo, or the first
ascent of Mt. Everest. Through reading
we satisfy, in part, this urge to wander;
but our first-hand experiences in wan-
dering do not require us to seek the
far corners of the world for things of
scenic and scientific interest. We can

73"  fen!

 

MR. CARLSON is professor of recreation
at lmliana University.

RECREATION

 

2?2

Not until we abandon the main

highways do we know
the true character
of the people and the land.

wander in our own communities; there
are people nearby whose customs and
methods of living differ from ours. We
can observe variety and beauty in our
own countryside. We can find joy in
studying our rocks, trees, and birds,
and in pondering about the infinite
complexity and interrelatedness of the
universe. There are many who “wonder
as they wander” about the great mys-
teries of life, of people, and of purpose;
there are others whose joy comes not
from a solitary experience but from the
fellowship of shared experiences.
There is no question of the values for
youth—and probably for people of all
ages—~—-of wandering. There is a question
as to how opportunities can be provided
in the affluent, motorized, mechanized,
sophisticated society that is America
today. Although we can but dimly see
what atomic energy and the great popu~
lation explosion may do to the world,
we do know, based on the signposts of
today, what hosteling has to offer will
be more needed in the world of tomor-
row than it was in the world of yester-
day. We recognize the problems that
hosteling must face if its opportunities
are to be made widespread and its serv-
ices vital in the years to come.
Although our culture is changing
rapidly and, on the surface, human be-
ings are adapfing themselves with
amazing ease to these changes, we must
remember that human beings change
but slowly through the centuries—~——in
terms of basic physical, mental, and
emotional needs. The changes in our
civilization which deprive us of the sat-
isfaction of these needs must he counter-
acted by special efforts. The many work-
reducing devices which relievc us of

JUNE, 1963

 

tedious toil do not relieve us of the need
for exercise; we must provide programs
of physical activity to keep us from
growing soft and comfort-loving. The
great reduction in our working hours
does not lessen our need for construc-
tive activity; we must have programs of
recreation which will make our new-
found leisure worth while. Our expen-
ditures for recreation in America are
tremendous. Estimates vary from thirty
to fifty billion dollars yearly, depending
on what is included in the term recrea-
tion. Some of this is morally, socially,
and physically undesirable. This leisure
offers a challenge to all concerned with
human well-being.

HOSTELING is one of the movements
in America that can serve as anti-
dotes to many of the undesirable trends
in the use of leisure. It is one of the
ways in which physical stamina can be
developed. It is one of the ways in
which love of country and respect for
people of other races, nationalities, and
economic backgrounds can be devel-
oped. It should be one of the ways in
which people—particularly young peo-
ple—may find meaning and substance
in their human relationships and in
their knowledge and experiences in the
land in which we live.

One of the most significant docu-
ments bearing on American life in re-
cent years is the report of the Outdoor
Recreation Resources Review Commis-
sion—the so-called ORRRC Report—
issued early this year under the title
Outdoor Recreation for America. Many
of the forecasts made in thc ORRRC
report have a particular bearing upon
youth hosteling; among them. the state-

ment that the miles of automobile travel
will more than double by the year 1976
and will double again by the year 2000.
This astounding prediction, if true, will
increase one of the problems that hos-
teling faces even today. There are now
over seventy million automobiles in the
United States, and we are spending bil-
lions of dollars on the improvement of
rapid interstate highways. This mechan-
ized mobility, coupled with plenty of
money to spend on travel, results in
conditions for hostels quite different
from those of European countries. The
great expanse of the United States also
presents one of the problems connected
with hosteling in our country.

The very prevalence of automobile
travel may well be one of the most po-
tent arguments for hostels. The faster
we travel, the less we see. We can go
from coast to coast over marvellous
superhighways without seeing a thing
that will add to our understanding of
our country. Not until we get onto sec-
ondary or back roads, where travel
must be slower, do we begin to glimpse
the people and the land. When we
abandon the car completely to set out
on our own two feet, we can really see
what our country is like.

MANY STATES are now engaged in
planning for outdoor recreation
resources. We may well expect to see
considerable land acquisition for out-
door recreation during the next few
years. Should not this planning consider
forms of travel other than by car?
Should it not be possible for hostelers
to find safe and interesting routes of
travel? Further, should it not be possi-
ble for hostelers to find hostel accom-

273

[Ii there. Miss Burton . . .
"Welcome’to Army
Special Services

ARMY SPECIAL SERVICES
OlVlLlAN JOBS HAVE
MANY ADVANTAGES

0 International Travel
0 Living Overseas

0 New Friends

0 Career Development

Non-routine jobs that appeal
to the active girl with a flair
for working with peeple. If
you have the apprOpriate
background and experience
plus the imagination to plan
leisure hour activities for
others . . then a civilian
career with Army Special Serv-
ices is right for you.

Professional jobs in the fields
of Recreation Leadership and
Librarianship are open to
single girls, minimum age 21.
College degree or equivalent
in specialized experience are
basic requirements.

FOR INFORMATIONAL BROCHURE WRITE:

Special Services Recruitment
Section, IRCB
Department of The Army

Washington 25, D. C. (0-71)

 

274 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

modations either in or adjacent to pub-
lic lands? The administrators of public
lands admittedly have a problem when
it comes to granting special privileges
to any one organization for the devel-
opment of facilities. It may well be,
however, that some arrangement could
be made through which the hostels
might be supervised by the American
Youth Hostel yet owned by other
agencies, public or voluntary. Certainly
the new federal Bureau of Outdoor
Recreation will be concerned with the
states in their planning for outdoor re-
sources and interested in finding ways
of meeting the needs of youth groups,
hikers, and cyclists.
Special consideration on federal
lands is no less important. The na-
tional parks. monuments, and historic
areas constitute some of the most im-
portant of American attractions. thre-
as campgrounds and public accommo-
dations providc for the visiting public,
there is a need for accommodations for
small groups traveling undcr leader-
ship on limited budgets. The tradi-
tional hostel, with its low-cost accom-
modations and opportunitics for meal
preparation, would make possible visits
by many who could not otherwise afford
to stay in such areas.

Young people who visit our country
from other lands are seldom able to
pay the living and travel costs neces-
sary to stay at most commcrcial es-
tablishmcnts.
they are used to accommodations more
modest in both facilities and cost. If

ln thcir own countries

we wish to encourage extensive visits
by youth from other lands. wc need to
find inexpensive ways for them to live.

Nearly one acre out of every eleven
in the United States is under thc jur-
isdiction of the U.S. Forest Servicc.
These lands provide opportunities for
adventure, particularly in wildnerness
or scmi-wildcrness travel. Sevcral
chains of hostels or hiking or canoeing
camps would serve an important func-
tion. Many groups are not sufficiently
skilled in outdoor living to be entirely
on their own, and the problem and ex-
pense of buying and carrying equip-
ment for wilderness living discourages
many. The regular campgrounds of the
Forest Service can, of course, be used,
but there is a need for campgrounds
with some leadership and with housing

and cooking equipment. I would like
to see some good tent camp hostels de-
veloped for summer use.

PLANS are being made now to care

for the increasing millions of peo-
ple who will go outdoors for recreation
during the coming years. Now is the
time for youth hosteling to find its place
in that planning. If hostels were num-
erous and available and well-publicized,
their use would greatly increase. Youth
agencies have their own programs and
do not wish to lose their identity but
would be happy to use the hostels for
housing if they were located in places
of interest.

Many Americans are disturbed at the
inability of young people to take care
of themselves out of doors and at thcir
lack of respect either for natural re-
sources or the rights of others. This
requires leadership training and in-
formation not only on techniques of
hiking and cycling but also on outdoor
good manners and on the knowledege
rcquired for enjoying and appreciating
the natural environment. Conducting
wildcrness trips by foot and canoe or
on horseback after the pattern of the
trips conducted by the American For-
estry Association and the Wilderness
Society might provide opportunities
for prospective leaders to lcarn desircd

skills.

HOSTELING opportunities should be
brought to many more people be-
cause it has a contribution to make to
the wclfare of the nation and to thc
lives of individuals who participate. A
long-term program of informing and
encouraging public agencies, particu-
larly land-holding agencics, should
eventually result in some type of co-
operative program for developing hos-
tcl facilities and trails. Participation
is the best education. Why should not
community leaders participate? A su-
perintendent of schools who has gone
through a hosteling experience can gen-
erally be convinced of the value of
hosteling for school children.

Our youth need adventure and chal-
lenges. These, hosteling can provide.
Hcre is a job not only for the profes-
sional hosteling staff but for evcryone
interested in the welfare of American

youth. #

RECREATION

Irj
 PROGRAM

 

Report of the new
project that was one

of the activities of the
summer recreation

program in F armville,

North Carolina

VIRGINIA GREGORY

ARMVILLIg, a small mideastern
F North Carolina town of four thou-
sand inhabitants, is adequately
equipped, neatly maintained, and has an
air of buoyancy and well-being. The
people live graciously and in leisurely
fashion, and are aware of their talented
and cultured neighbors. This was in
evidence last summer when an art class
was organized, supervised, enjoyed, and
included as an activity of the summer
recreation program.

The commission was
aware of the growing interest in cul-
tural arts and, at the same time, recog-

recreation

nized tllat enthusiasm and ideas were
not enough but had to be accompanied
by hard work, finances, qualified in-
structors, and the approval and accep-
tance of the general public. Could this
be included as a part of the recreation
program? Who would want to paint

 

MISS GREGORY is assistant director of

the North Carolina Recreation Commis-
sion, Raleigh.

JUNE, 1963

ART INSTRUCTION IN
A SUMMER PROGRAM

 

F

pictures? Where was the class to be
held? Who would finance it? W ho
would “spark” the project———and more
important, who would furnish the “fuel”
to keep the project going? As usual, a
few interested people had to push it,
support it, and participate in it. One of
the kcy people, the clerk and treasurer
of the town, is an artist. He soon found
two other artists and, among them, they
agreed to give instructions. The Boy
Scout Council was asked to lend the
Scout hut for a studio for the summer,
and readily agreed. The local Formica
Flakeboard Corporation gave materials
for the construction of fifteen tables and
fifty-four easels. An art-supply store in
Greenville, a city fifteen miles from
Farmville, agreed to let the art students
purchase supplies and materials needed
for the class at cost.

“Word” got around about the art
classes and fifty-five students showed up
at the first class. Their ages ranng from
thirteen to ninety. There were begin-
ners, “dabblers,” artists, and just aver-

age enthusiasts lined up to begin paint-
ing. Total attendance over a ten-week
period was 4-60, ages of members rang—
ing from thirteen to seventy-two. In-
struction was offered in charcoal and

oils only. The class was held three hours
one evening a wcek for ten weeks. The
studio, bcing located near the swimming
pool and playground, found so many
curious “onlookers” that they almost
crowded the students out of thc working
area. The “grand finish” was a sidewalk
show and reception at which friends and
about three hundred “Mr. and Mrs.
Publics” admired the 14-0 paintings that
were. completed.

Fa rmviIIe could now add cultural arts
to its “Ieisu rely living” as demonstrated
by the art class. The recreation commis-
sion. the three instructors, the students
and the gencral public had a thrilling
and gratifying experience, and plans are
already being made for art instruction
to be a permanent part of the recreation
program in Fartnville. #

275

A PHYSICAL FIT N-ESS
PILOT PROJECT

With two hundred youngsters participating,
Huntington, New York, is one of eight
communities selected as a test area by
President Kennedy’s Council on Youth Fitness

JOSEPH G. ANDERSON

I-lE MASS menus to the suburbs
T has really hit the town of Hunt-
ington, located on the north
shore of Long Island, about forty-live

miles east of New York City. During
the past ten years, the town’s population
has grown from 47,505 to over 146,000.
The families that moved to Huntington
have been, by and large, young families
with small children or children on the
way. This tremendous population in-
crease has thrown a burden on the Hunt-
ington schools. The little red school-
house has, of necessity, been replaced
by twenty-classroom elementary, junior,
and senior high schools. The school-
building program in Huntington has
shown no sign of letting up, nor has the
population explosion.

With the school day being adequately
taken care of, it became apparent that
the hours when the youngstcrs were not
in school must also be lilled with whole-
some activity. This need was fulfilled,
to a great extent, by the cstablishmcnt
two years ago of the Huntington Recrea-
tion Department. From the beginning,
it was felt that the recreation depart-
ment could Operate most effectively by
supplementing and implementing the
extracurricular activities of the schools.
This cooperation bctween school and
recreation department led President
Kennedy’s Council on Youth Fitness to
select Huntington as one of the eight
towns in the United States to conduct
a pilot program.

This project was divided into several

MR. ANDERSON is director of recreation
in Huntington, New Y orh.

276

phases. Last J unc, registration was open
to one hundred Huntington boys bc-
tween the ages of ten and fourtecn.
Eighty boys signed up, with their par-
ents’ permission, to participate in the
obstacle-course phase of the program.
The course was set up in accordance
with the specilications prepared by
President Kennedy’s Council and is
similar in type to the obstacle courses
used in U. S. troop training in World
War II.

The course is located in a plot 30'-by-
150' and is designed in two lanes for
a two-way run. The starting lane in-
cludes the following obstacles in the
order listed: adjustable hurdle, hori-
zontal ladder, dodge posts, seven foot
wall, and balance beam. The return
lane includes the following obstacles in
order: balance beam, parallel bars. and
fence hurdle.

Each boy was given a physical ex-
amination prior to and at the conclusion
of the program. The daily schedule be-
gan at 9AM with the first group of boys
in the ten- and eleven-year-old category
running through the obstacle course.
Each boy was timed daily on his com-
pletion of each obstacle. The boys were
tested each week and the results of the
test were compared with the norm chart
provided by the President’s Council. in
addition to working on the obstacles,
the boys engaged in programs of low
activity. These consisted of baseball,
soccer, and calisthenics. Rest periods at
regular intervals were scheduled. Dur-
ing these rest periods individual coun-
seling on the obstacles was given, as
well as lectures on hygicne and diet. The

morning schedule was repeated in the
afternoon for the boys in the twelve-,
thirteen-, and fourteen-year age group.

The physical-fitness program ran for
six weeks and at its conclusion it was
estimated that each boy had received
the equivalent of one year’s physical
education, as provided by the schools
in this area. Four physical-education
teachers were employed by the town to
conduct the program. it was felt that
only men with this background and ex-
perience in handling adolescent boys
were qualified to put these boys through
their paces in such a rigorous program.
Close supervision of each boy and cer-
tain elementary precautions, such as
chalking hands to avoid blistering, un-

 

Up and over! The obstacle course at-
tracts thc boy who might othcrwise have
slight intcrcst in. physical activities.

schcduled rest periods at the first indi-
cation of fatigue, werc largely re-
sponsible for the low accident rate.
Bruised knees and elbows were the only
injuries sustained.

ALTHOUGH the obstacle course phase
of the pilot program received the
lion’s share of publicity, the phase de-
voted to mentally retarded children was
of equal value. The town, in conjunc-
tion with the Huntington Auxiliary of
the Association for the Help of Re-
tarded Children, sponsored a summer
recreation program for thc mentally
handicapped children. This program
ran for six weeks, fivc days a week, and
was under the direct supervision of a

RECREATION

professional teacher whose background
included thirteen years of experience in
working with exceptional children. The
director was assisted by four paid coun-
selors and nonpaid volunteers.

The program was conducted at a
local school whose facilities included
playground, gymnasium, locker rooms,
and cafeteria facilities. The children
indoor obstacle
course, especially designed to meet their
requirements. They received the Kraus-
Weber test which is a calisthenic-type
test. They were also tested in various
swimming techniques geared to their
ability. Although testing these children
is a very difficult task, certain valuable
discoveries were made. There was a
marked improvement in their balance
and coordination, as well as motivation
as a result of running through these
tests each day.

were tested on an

The indoor obstacle course consisted
of four lanes of simple obstacles, fifty
feet in length. The obstacles included
crawling through a tunnel of mats ten
feet long, running across balance beam
first lane; crawling over or vaulting a
three-foot-high table with mats and
stairs two feet high, second lane; jump-
ing sticks placed on two sets of chairs
three feet apart and two feet high, and
touching spots on floor, third lane; run-
ning through maze to finish, fourth
lane.

The children were tested and timed
two to three times a week, with self-
improvement the goal. The groups ran
the course daily, and the times were re-
corded. A competitive tournament con-
cluded the course and marked improve-
mom in all areas was shown. The first
few recorded times were not completely
accurate clue to the fact that the child
did not comprehend what he was ex-
pected to do. This was considered.
Final records based upon running the
course correctly, and hence were valid.

Our exceptional children were also
tested in the water. Though skill level
was poor generally, some children
could pass test comparable to basic
swimming test, and all the children en-
tered the water. As a result of being
checked, more children were encour-
aged, tried and generally showed im-
provement. The basic flat dive was done
off a chair in the water with the seat at
water level. This was the big challenge.

JUNE, 1963

THE RESLLTS of the obstacle course
and the program for mentally handi-
capped children were forwarded to the
President’s Council for examination and
evaluation. The conclusions drawn by
the council will be used in establishing
a physical-fitness program which will be
adopted on a national level.

The conclusions drawn by the Hunt-
ington Recreation Department are:
0 A physical-fitness program which
utilizes the obstacle course has great
promotional value and, therefore, at-
tracts the boy who might otherwise have
little interest in physical activities. Since
these inactives and non-sports-minded
are the ones who are in need of physical

improvement, the value of the obstacle
course is obvious. Besides the glamour
which the military obstacle course holds
for the adolescent boy, it is a great
cqualizer. The boy who plays varsity
basketball or holds the school track rec-
ord will at least start off on an equal
basis with the boy who spends his lei-
sure hours in the science lab. Agility
and coordination are strong factors in
mastering the obstacle course. Once the
motivation has becn established, the
challenge is irresistible. Success in the
obstacle course could well be the de-
termining factor in interesting the hith-
erto lethargic boy in physical activities.

Continued on Page 288

  
  
    

r———---..“-
L—-——- -‘u-
Lu.-- -——-"‘-

butt-9;... ‘

r—o-—---_-

|~——J .0-

t
t

1— G) BAUNCE BEAM
,3, (4' Low)
...L

—J Che-uh: Top Edgu 1.42%.!

F-———-_-—

:7.

h-—---—*—
:27m*‘*<;.‘;

0 T
T
0 tubular.“ Beam
— l2‘lnn'
Chaqu 109 £690:
olAlleno
it
i i
Wall | 1
I u
- a I
‘0 I I
T i l
I
- EJ
o 9 -
Pamllolbon
.'
‘0
-L
LL}
m
a:
I 8 wH—J'a'wd
:. U l----—-—--4'—0"——-
"‘ ‘1!
l a
DC)ng Putt :7.
m
J o 
l ‘5 liu
. 1 I
.0— 2 [3|
J g lal
_ l l
'5 Q.
‘3’ LJ
>-
5
(3)

 

ao'————-+—— I2-—40~—lo'9—tl«o-———-16'————+

FINISH
START

 

277

 

ADMINISTRATIO

 

PUBLIC
RECREATION:

Progress and

Problems

Field Report for 1962

points up what needs to be done . . .

ARTHUR TODD

- AT THE END or EACH YEAR, thc Na-

tional R e c r e a ti 0 n Association
district field representatives report on
the recreation and park developments
in the districts they serve. Thc consoli-
dated report from all districts gives a
picture of the nation’s public recreation
progress and problems and the needs
and trends for the year. The 1962 report contains much to
point to with pride and much to view with alarm. If all the
good things are added up, the picture looks rosy. A look
at the problems is discouraging, but they point up what
needs to be done. It is obvious we are plagued with many
and serious problems in professional and lay lcadership.
Static, unimaginative, and weak programs are too numer-
ous, and the cause is not always low budgets. A broad
leadership development program is needed badly. A con-
centrated effort should be made to raise the level of rec-
reation programs.

  

MR. TODD is director of the National Recreation Association

Field Department.
278

Many communities still lack the basic organization for
recreation service and others have second-rate organizations.
Financial support for recreation has increased steadily, but
competition for the dollar is increasing as recreation de-
mands grow. More effective public education, long-range
park and recreation plans, and new sources of revenue are
required. Recreation legislation in many states needs to be
broadened, revised, and overhauled. Many state recreation
societies are working on this. Others need to tackle the prob-
lem by making a thorough study of existing laws and plan-
ning a program to improve them.

Probably nothing is more urgent at this time than the
need to acquire land for recreation. The increase in the
number of bond issues and tax levies in 1962 over previous
years indicates that this fact is recognized. There were more
successful bond issues, but there were more failures as well.

The following extracts from .the 1962 Field Reports tell
part of the story.

New Year-Round Departments: Sixty-two year-round
departments were established in 1962, an increase of nine
over the previous year. Twenty-four of these are adminis-
tered by policy-making recreation boards and seventeen by
advisory boards; four are administered by policy-making
park and recreation boards and four by advisory park and
recreation boards; one is administered by a county com-
mission. Full-time executivcs have been employed in forty-
three of the cities. Others were in the process of recruiting
and screening at the time the report was made.

Local Recreation Budgets: Increases in operating budg-
ets were reported from every district and 456 cities re-
ported incrcases. With a few notable exceptions, the in-
creases were a small percentage of the total budget. There
were also decreases in sixty-five cities, but the amounts were
generally small. In 122 citics thc budget remained thc same
as in 1961. Both thc number of increases and decreases re-
ported wcre greater in 1962 than 1961. In many cases the
budget increascs wcre due to salary advances. In other
instances, programs wcre expanded by the addition of new
facilities and staff. '

Recreation Facilities: Acquisition of land for recreation
use by all levels of government continucd at an accelerated
pace in 1962. Thc impact of the Outdoor Recreation Re-
sources Review Commission Report (See RECREATION,
March and April, 1963) and the establishment of the federal
Bureau of Outdoor Recrcation was fclt across the land.
There is a new consciousness of the urgency of saving land
for recreation before it disappears.

Development on the Frinch of Cities: Marked atten-
tion was given to the developmcnt of recreation areas and
facilities in the fringe areas. Areas and facilities outside
city limits were acquirer] and deve10pcd in several ways:
(1) by cities themselves, (2) by counties or district author-
ities, (3) by state parks, or (4) by a combination of two or
more of these. In a number of instances, land was acquired
by a local authority through a fedcral agency, such as the

RECREATION

Bureau of Land‘Management or the Housing and Home
Finance Corporation. The Corps of Engineers has also de-
ve10ped outstanding recreation facilities adjacent to a num-
ber of cities.

In some cases, deve10pment in fringe areas by cities was
accomplished through annexation of the area. Examples of
this are Macon and Columbus, Georgia; Tampa, Florida;
Columbia, South Carolina; Knoxville, Tennessee; and Bill-
ings, Montana. Cities also acquired areas outside their
boundaries and constructed facilities ranging from beaches,
marinas, reservoir develOpments, skiing areas to mountain

parks. Examples are Burlington, Gastonia, and Durham,
North Carolina; Dallas, Texas, which acquired a forty-five
hundred acre reservoir ten miles from downtown Dallas;
Albuquerque, New Mexico, which is in the process of pur-
chasing three large sites from the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment for park and wilderness areas; Lawton, Oklahoma;
Boise and Idaho Falls, Idaho; Indianapolis, Indiana, which
purchased over two thousand acres of park and recreation
land for future development; Medford, Salem, and Veronia,
Oregon. Veronia offers a good example of cooperative effort.
A new public fishpond was developed as a result of water
impoundment and dam construction. The State Game Com-
mission and the Crown Zellerback Corporation undertook
the project. The pond serves for fire protection as well as
fishing. The site was leased from the Bureau of Land Man-
agement.

The role of the county is increasing in recreation facility
development. Jackson and St. Louis Counties in Missouri;
King County, Washington; many counties in Oregon; Lucas
County, Ohio; Monroe County (Rochester), New York;
and a number of counties and regional authorities in Penn-
sylvania and Delaware are a few examples of developments
by these units on the fringes of cities.

The metr0politan district form of government is receiving
serious attention and some new mergers were effected in
1962. Nashville, Tennessee, and fringe-area voters approved
a referendum to establish in 1963 a metr0politan form of
government with recreation services to be developed on a
gradual basis. In another successful referendum, the city of
Virginia Beach and Princess Anne County, Virginia, will
merge operation into a Virginia City authority. South Nor-
folk and Norfolk County, Virginia, voted to consolidate its
form of government in 1963.

State park authorities and other state agencies are helping
to preserve parkland near cities in many states. Many signs
point to a sharp increase in fringe-area developments in the
future. It will need to be an all-out effort to keep ahead of
the burgeoning of the suburbs.

Revenue-Producing Problems—Fees and Charges:
There continues to be a diversity in phi1050phy, as well as
in practice, on the fees-and-charge issue. Ranging from
situations where no fee for any activity is charged to places
where fees are expected to produce a sizeable percentage of
the budget, a definite or uniform nationwide trend is not too
clear. It can be said with certainty that park and recreation

JUNE, 1963

executives, and particularly city officials, are looking hard
at the possibility of increasing income from fees and charges.
The Great Lakes representative for Illinois, Minnesota, and
Wisconsin sums up the trend in his district by saying: “It
now appears that where fees and charges were first used as
a token charge to replace materials used or for Spccial serv-
ices, they have now become a regular charge policy as a
means of supplementing park and recreation tax levies and
appr0priations. The time may come when anSl park and
recreation services carry a charge or a registration fee for
those who wish to participate in activities or use park and
recreation facilities. If this is to be avoided, public support
will have to come to improve state legislation, making pos-
sible higher tax rates for parks and recreation.” It is pertin-
ent that these three states show the largest number of
increases in fees of any district (thirty-onc cities) and the
fewest new fees (one city). In the Mid-South, on the con-
trary, new fees were instituted in fifteen cities and were
increased in only two.

It would appear that there is only a slight increase in
the charging of fees for activities requiring program leader-
ship of a technical nature, but there are noticeable increases
for unorganized use of facilities requiring large capital in-
vestments, such as ice rinks, swimming pools, golf courses,
bowling alleys, camps, lighted fields, and ski tows. There
is a definite trend in charging specialofees for non-residents.

Types of New Recreation Areas and Facilities: New
facilities reported in 1962 are listed below in numerical
order:

Parks   ---...._-.._----_._..._...,183 8athlng beaches mm... 8
Tennis courts _-----..__--_...__.--.__.. 81 (amp areas __. ._... ______. __...... 8
Recreation centers -_. 11 Bathhouses._......_..._.._._._.. .._.. 1
Playgrounds and Hockey rinks . _._.__.______ _n ._._ 4

playtields  __...--__.__-..------ 69 Garden centers  ..._..._. ___.. 4
Ball dlamonds ................ _. . 59 Bandstands "1-..-.." ..._.-..... 3
Swimming pools _.___-_.“..., .__... 50 Zoos ..._ ...... . -.__ .......--._-._._ 3
Shelters  ................. -- 39 Archery ranges .......... ..-.__._.. 2
[enters—special purpose .  .. 28 Horseshoe courts ......... ..._.__ 2
Golt courses __________ __.____ 24 Museums ........ -x 2
Marinas ______________________ .. 23 Skl areas ....._._-_...... .___.__... 2
Skating rlnks _-______n,.__. ______, 20 track ..........  2
Wadlng pools _..__.--._-__.____ __-_. 15 8owling green . .......... -..._.._.. t
Plcnlc areas w... ___.... _.._.._ 11 Dance parlllon  ._.......________... t
Multiple-court areas . .___._ _.___ 11 Nature trall .__..._ ,...._.._..._._..__ 1
Park buildings—misc.  9 Playmobile ..--_._ “mm”, 1
Athletic tields _____-_...._...__..____ 8 Shuttleboard court  _.__..-....___. 1

REPORTS 011 successful and unsuccessful bond issues sug-
gest that in many cases the difference between success
and failure was advance planning and knowledge of 110w
these things work. A typical example of the causes of fail-
ure is taken from a recent field report: “A year ago, a mil-
lion and a half-dollar bond issue was hastily planned and
presented to the voters and, in the district representative’s
Opinion, the issue failed miserably bccause:

o Public was not properly educated to need for more park
lands.

0 Brochure announcing the bond issue was poorly
planned.

0 The amount asked of the public was too large.

0 Publicity was meager and poorly planned.” H

279

The shape of recreation in the twenty-first century may
be determined by what communities do now to get and de-
vrl..p recreation space. The chart below summarizes the
1.002 referendum election by districts.

 

PASSED FAILED
Dlstrlct B T Amount Dlstric1 B T Amount
Pacitic S.W. 6 5 5 9,692,635 Pacitic S.W. 9 3 $14,600,000
(plus3 (plus3
tax IevIes) tax Ievles)
Pacitic N.W. 12 7 $ 2,918,338 Pacltic N.W. 5 3 $ 2,055,000
Southwest 4 $ 4,808,000 Southwest 1 $ 100,000
Midwest 7 1 $ 5,640,000 Midwest 3 1 $ 1,045,000
Great Lakes 16 5 $ 9,944,000 Great Lakes 11 3 $10,900,000
Mid-South 6 4 5 6,393,700 Mid-South 3 S 100,000
Southeast 1 2 $ 763,000 Southeast 1 1Mi|| tax
Mid-Atlantlc 1 1 S 400,000“
New England 6 2 $ 2,062,686 _
TOTAl 59 27 $42,622,359“ TOTAl 29 14 $28,800,000

 

*Plus $25,000,000 In New York State

Local Referendum Elections: A total of 130 local refer-
endum elections were reported in 1962. Bond issues ac-
counted for eighty-eight and tax levies for forty-one. There
were sixty successful bond elections and twenty failures;
twenty-seven tax levies were passed and fourteen were de-

feated. The record is eighty-eight victories and forty-one

defeats. More than $43,000,000 was voted in bonds and taxes
and $29,000,000 were turned down by the voters. Com-

parisons with the three preceding years are as follows:

POWERFUL PATENTED PLUNGER CLEARS

Clear messy, stuffed toilets
Cut maintenance costs with

Ordinary plungers don’t scat
properly. They permit com-
pressed air and water to splash
back. Thus you not only have
a mess, but you lose the very
pressure you need to clear the
obstruction.

—————-—-——-—-——————.___..___._.—.____________

 

1962
Total: Bonds 89 Passed 60 Failed 29
Total: Tax 41 Passed 27 Failed 14
Total: Bonds 130 Passed 87 Falled 43
1961
Total: Bonds 57 Passed 45 Failed 12
Total: Tax 15 Passed 12 EaIIed 3
Total: Bonds 72 Passed 57 Falled 15
_—__.—___________,_______
1960
Total: Bonds 93 Passed 74 Falled 19
Total: Tax 20 Passed 11 Failed 9
Total: Bonds 113 Passed 85 Failed 28
1959
Total: Bonds 54 Passed 44 Falled 10
Total: Tax 16 Passed 12 Failed 4
Total: Bonds 70 Passed 56 Failed 14

 

Local Recreation Program: Additions to program dur-
ing the year are listed beginning with the type added in the
largest number of communities. New programs for youth
for example, were added most frequently, followed by serv-
ices to senior citizens. In cases, where two or more activities
are under the same number, it means that they were reported
an equal number of times.

1. Servlces to youth 7. Servlces to mlddle adults
2. Servlces to senior cltizens 8. tamplng
3. SocIaI recreation Speclat events
4. Servlces to gIrIs and women 9. Servlces 1o III nd handlcapped
5. Pertormlng ar1s Indoorcenters
Arts and cra1ts 10. Nature recreatlon
AIhIetIcs 11. Winter sports
6. Playground servlces 12. Servlces to Industry

The weakest program areas were found to be services to
the ill and handicapped, performing arts, programs for
girls and women, and middle adults. At the other end of
the scale, athletics, social recreation, services to youth, and
special events were the strongest. Nature recreation, camp-
ing, and indoor center programs were generally weak, while
programs for senior citizens and arts and crafts have con-
tinued to gain in quantity and quality.

Local Recreation Leadership: What are the major proh-
lcms affecting maintenance of a high level of professional
recreation personnel? District representatives reported fully
and in considerable detail on this question. In summarizing
the answers, it is recognized that some of the problems re-
ported are closely related to others; some are causes; others,
effects. The order does not indicate relative importance.
The following problems were identified:

0 Double cup, double-pressure
o Tapered tail gives air-tight tit
0 Designed to tIex at any angle
0 Centers, can't skid around

With “TOILAFLEX”, ex-
pressly designed for toilets, no
air or water can escape. The
full pressure plows through the
clogging mass and swishes it
down. Can’t misst

Get a "TOllAFlEX" for your home too.
Positive insoronce ogninst stuffed toilet.

$265

Higher in Canada

AVAILABLE AT YOUR HARDWARE SUPPLIER

280

 

11.
12.
13.

ot 1rained protesslonals (hlrlng
"good guys")

Politics

Lack ot opportunlties for ad-
vancement wlthln department or
distrlct

lack ot In-servlce training

Poor morale

Shortage ot qualitied personnel
available (recreation majors)

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

19.
20.

1. low salaries 14. Inadequate recrultment ot young
2. Too hlgh a regard tor 1inanc|a| workers
rewards 15. lack ot able personnel on larger
3. |nsuttic|ent1r|nge benetlts stat1s tor top jobs In smaller
4. Budget limitations communities
5. lack otlob specitlcations 16. lack ot proper trainlng In col-
6. lack ot salary schedule Ieges
7. low status o1 recreation servlce 17. lack ot proper placement upon
In munlclpal government graduation
8. Fallure to recognire Importance 18. Environmental drawbacks, (Isola-

tion, small towns with IImIted
opportunities, etc.)

Turnover too high

Individuals who measure theIr
success by IheIr ability to secure
better positions

21. Rivalries and bItterness wiIhIn

state socIeties and among na-
tional organlrations

RECREATION

What is being done to solve the problem by the employing
agencies? Nothing, or too little, in many cases. Others
are doing one or more of the following:

1. Raising salaries (often forced by competition for peo-
ple) .

2. Better fringe benefits.

3. More salary scales established.

4. Developing job specifications.

5. City managers usually recognize the importance of
professional personnel.

6. Use of National Recreation Association Recreation
Personnel Service.

7. Accepting advice and help of NRA district representa-
tive.

8. Encouraging or permitting employes to participate in
training, conferences, et cetera.

 

What is being done to solve the problem by the profes-
sional personnel?

1. Considerable progress in state voluntary registration
plans.

2. Individuals and state societies conducting public ed-
ucation programs to convince citizens and employer groups
on importance of trained recreation leadership.

3. Encourage attendance of board members and city
ofiicials at state, district, and national conferences.

4. Recruitment programs.

5. Establishment of scholarship programs.

6. State societies and others urging colleges to institute
recreation curricula.

7. Making use of National Recreation Association na-
tional salary study.

8. Workshops and training programs on local, state, and
district levels under way (Midwest Recreation Executive
School) ; others planned (Southwest District). Many train-
ing programs for leaders in playgrounds, camping, et cetera.

9. Improving local programs to raise stature of the de-
partment in the'eommunity.

10. Attempts to get good civil-service laws.

11. Texas and Oklahoma Recreation, Louisiana and New
Mexico Recreation Associations are voting members of their
respective municipal associations. In this manner they are
able to help the cause of recreation personnel through asso-
ciation with the members and participation at the state
meetings.

It was suggested that many professionals are not doing
enough to recruit potential junior leaders for playgrounds
and centers and were missing opportunities to talk to high

JUNE, 1963

school and college students. What is being done to sUth the
problem by others? The continuous work by district rep-
resentatives and the National Recreation Association in pub-
lic education was cited. The National Training Institute
on Recreation Administration conducted annually by the
National Recreation Association is an outstanding example.
Some colleges and universities are recognizing the need for
broader training and more student field experiences.

Staff Development Program: There is universal agree-
ment that staff development programs are generally weak.
Some cities have paper plans only; some make attempts by
fits and starts. There are a great many one-man departments
and this poses problems. Playground leader-training in-
stitutes are common, but there is far too little in the way of
real training or progressive development of recreation per-
sonnel on all levels, professional and volunteer.

Major Unmet Needs in Training: The specific needs and
problems as seen by the NRA district representatives are
as follows:

1. Refresher courses for executives.

2. Continuous in-service training programs.

3. Training is not reaching enough leaders.

4. Training for all levels of leaders.

5. Training of both lay and professional leaders in the
philosophy of recreation.

6. Long-range district plan of training opportunities for
volunteers.

7. Quality of training lacks imagination.

8. Nothing new or different being taught.

9. Finding and using qualified trainers.

10. Inadequate college training. (“Too many recreation
graduates have too limited an understanding of the duties
and responsibilities of the positions they seek. Too many
college and university instructors laek practical eXperience
and the theories they promote are often not practical or
sound or even economically feasible. Leadership with
vision, productivity, sincerity, and devotion is needed if
the profession is to gain the acceptance with other profes-
sions.”)

11. Shortage of college-trained personnel.

12. Training in outdoor recreation and arts.

13. Training in recreation for the ill, handicapped, and
aging.

14. Training professional and lay leaders in fiscal mat-
ters; i.e., performance budgeting, eost accountintr, per-
eapita cost of each operation and activity.

15. Training in techniques and programs for the “hard-
to-reach,” teenagers, young adults, family, and “all-age”
groups. ‘

16. Training in budgeting and bookkeeping, site plan-
ning maintenance of areas and facilities, personnel prac-
tices, recruitment and use of volunteers and community
organizations.

17. Motivation is needed to create a desire on the part
of professionals for trainino'.

In retrospect, 1962 was a year of progress and problems.
The challenge for 1963 is clear. Let us make progress in

. solving the problems. #

281

 

 

HIRD DIMENSION

Advisory councils extend public recreation services

DOROTHY JONES

ADVISORY COUN-
CILS provide
an avenue through
which local citizens

can express an in-
telligent interest in

 

the recreation pro-
gram and other ac-
tivities within their neighborhoods and
channel their interest into beneficial
service. Advisory councils have been
accepted by government, education,
health and welfare agencies as well as
large corporations; there has been a
marked increase in their usefulness in
a constantly widening variety of fields.

In Columbus, Ohio, 250 people serve
on the advisory councils of the fifteen
recreation centers and an additional five
hundred are members of seventy-five
playground advisory councils. The
playground councils serve for a shorter
period because of the limited season but
provide a more extensive involvement of
the citizens in the city’s recreation pro-
grams. These councils are made up of
leaders of the community, among them
are businessmen and women, parents,
PTA officers, and teachers, clergymen,
ofEcers of community councils, mcmo
bers of women’s clubs and service or-
ganizations, social workers and proba-
tion oflicers, members of the Junior
League, artists, attorneys, and others in-
terested in civic affairs.

The advisory councils give a third
dimension to the work of the puhlic
recreation department and involve
many people who become actively con-
cerned about the programs for the
center. They serve in many capacities

 

MISS JONES, formerly supervisor of rec-
reation in Columbus, Ohio, is now with
the Public Housing Administration as
a Community Facilities 0ficer in the
Southeastern Region with headquarters
in Atlanta, Georgia.

282

to broaden the base of the work. Their
main function is to advise in the pro-
gram development and community
needs and to interpret the work of the
center to the community. Frequently,
however, they extend their services be-
yond these boundaries to become active
volunteers, coaches of teams, judges for
special events, hosts and hostesses for
special programs, and act in many other
capacities.

DEVELOPING an effcctive advisory

council takes time and work. It is
not easy when such a council has not
existed before. Columbus has found,
however, that the time and effort put
into the development of the councils
have been more than worthwhile. The
councils have given substance to the
recreation program and status to the
recreation centers. They have supportcd
successful efforts to raise several million
dollars for rccreation and park improve-
ments in the city in thc past few years.
They are now an integral part of center
operation.

Their effectiveness depends to a large
degree on the imagination, skill, and
ability of the center director in effec-
tively utilizing their talents and inter-
ests. The director works with the coun-
cil president in setting up thc agenda
and deciding upon matters to hc given
elnphasis. He follows through on com-
mittee assignments, notifying memhers
of meetings and, in general, guides and
inspires the group. He must also keep
them working within the framework of
their purpose. An over-enthusiastic
concern for a particular project or proh-
lem can result in the group extending
itself heyond the limits of its authority.
The agenda of the meeting is reviewed
by the supervisor before a meeting.
Through this review the supervisor is
frequently able to bring information to

the meeting which will help answer
some of the questions or give guidance
which will avert problems arising in
the future.

The recreation commission, which is
the governing body for recreation in
Columbus, has established a set of guid-
ing principles used by each council. Be-
yond these principles the councils are
able to make other rules which govern
their particular needs.

ACTIVITIES of the councils vary.
They sponsor certain events, such
as Halloween and Christmas parties,
fishing derbys, fun fairs, golden-age and
sports banquets, and other recognition
programs. They help publicize and pass
bond issues for recreation, and they
appear at budgct hearings occasionally,
although they have never constitutcd a
pressure group. They makc surveys and
studies, hold workshops for community
leaders, rccommcnd new typcs of pro-
grams, and purchase special cquiplnent
for the ccnters. This cquipmeut is be-
yond that normally furnished by the
recreation department, such as clcctric
scorcboards, pool tables, trampolines,
and public-addrcss systems. Thcy also
make a petty cash fund available for the
purchase of the latest dance records and
supplies for cooking classes. This fac-
tor expedites the carrying out of these
programs; for instance, where the bid-
ding process through the normal pur-
chasing channels is too cumbersome and
lcngthy. They sometimes purchase gym
trunks and jackcts or identification
shirts with the center’s name on them,
particularly for participants in city-
widc events. The council handles any
monies which may be raised for use of
that particular center.

Realizing the need for trained recrea-
tion leadership in the centers, the coun-
cils are beginning to set up scholarship

RECREATION

funds for boys and girls of the neigh-
borhood who are interested in going in-
to recreation work. This will have a
profound effect on the recruitment of
new leaders for the recreation profes-
sion and will alert the present staff to
watch for possible future leaders among
the program participants.

The advisory council of the Senior
Citizens Center is made of a large cross-
section of community leaders concerned
about the aging; some members are re-
tired, some are still very active in their
own professions. In this group are a
doctor, a lawyer, ministers of the three
religious faiths, members of women’s
church groups, the chief librarian, pro-
fessors from Ohio State University, a
representative of the Pilot Club, Junior
League, labor unions, Aid for Aged
Office and the United Community Coun-
cil, along with other interested civic
leaders. The work of this council has
covered a wide range of activities and
committees have worked on such proj-
ects as a research project, a one-day
institute for all phases of work with the
aging, the formation of an organization
for retired top executives and profes-

sional ltlul. .1 library of professional
materials on aging; furnishings for the
new center. The council also gives back-
ing and assistance to thc Goldcn Age
Hobby Show and the Senior Citizens
Selling Mart, both held annually. These
projects extend the program far beyond
what the staff alone could do.

 

SOMETIMES an advisory group is es-
tablished before a center comes into
existence. This was true with the city’s
arts and crafts center (sec RECREATION,
October 1962). Before starting this
center, the recreation staff assembled
a group of people it knew would be

ADVISORY COUNCILS

interested in such an undertaking.
Among these Were the chairman of the
fine-arts department at Ohio State Uni-
versity and two faculty members from
the department, the supervisor of art
for the public schools, the assistant di-
rector of the art gallery, and several
others. Questions put to them were: Is
there a need for such a center? Would
it duplicate services already being
given? In what areas should we con-
centrate in order to best extend art
opportunities to people in the city? Is
the location available, one which would
be acceptable? What are the equipment
and materials needed and where are
sources of supplies. Will you help find
qualified staff? Will you continue to
guide us in order to give maximum,
high-level art programs to our city?
Needless to say these questions were
answered and, as a result of their help
and advice, Columbus was able to open
and operate a very fine arts-and-crafts
center.

In order to give more detail of the
purposes as outlined, some of the guid-
ing principles by which the Columbus
councils operate follow:

Columbus Recreation Department,

Columbus, Ohio

Purposes and Objectives: All year-round recreation centers shall
have an advisory council. The purpose of the organization shall be:
" To advise the recreation center and commission regarding the
development of recreation in the area served.
° To enlist interest in public recreation.
' To point up gaps, duplications, and problems regarding recreation
in the community. ,
' To interpret to staff, community interests and needs and to the
community the program of the center.
' To encourage donations and supplementary funds for equipment
consistent with the deveIOpment of the center’s program.
' To support recreation bond issues and budgetry request.
' To develop c00peration among all groups and organizations inter-
ested in general or specific measures designed to provide better
recreation services,
' To secure action of a democratic and effective nature that will
provide service and meet community needs.
' To interpret need for use of local school buildings or other com-
munity facilities.
' To keep the recreation personnel informed of the needs, interests,
desires and criticisms of the peOple.

Its character shall be nonpartisan, nonsectarian, and operated not
for financial profit.

Membership: The membership of the council shall represent a wide
range of community interests, including churches, schools, husiness,
parents, civic and youth organizations. Membership of the council
shall not be less than nine nor more than twenty-one. The center
director, supervisors, superintendent, and present memhers of the
council may nominate persons for membership on the advisory coun-

Irma. 1063

cils. Such nominations are made to the recreation commission. All
persons approved shall receive a formal letter of appointment in-
cluding the period of their term of office. Members shall serve for
a three-year term with expiration dates staggered, with certain
members being appointed for one year, others for two ycars, and
still others for a period of three years, and, thereafter, successors
shall be appointed for a term of three years. Members may be re-
appointed but after the second term one year shall elapse before
they are reappointed.

Meetings: The council shall meet at least quarterly with more
frequent meetings being established by the will of the individual
council. One shall be the annual meeting and election of officers.

Election of Officers: Each advisory council shall elcct its own
oflicers, which shall include a chairman, vice-chairman, secretary and
treasurer, and/or a recording and corresponding secretary if desired.

Duties of Officers: The chairman shall preside at all meetings,
appoint committees, and perform such other duties as pertain to the
office. The vice-chairman shall preside in the absence of the chairman
and perform all duties of the chairman. The secretary shall keep the
minutes of the council and attend to all correSpondence with the
assistance of the recreation department. The treasurer shall handle
the money of the council and account for same. A bank account
shall be established where there is money to be handled, with a
checking account set up. Double signatures. (two out of three) the
center director's, the treasurer’s, and/or the chairman’s shall be
required for withdrawing money. All hills must be approved for

payment by the advisory council. H
283

General Procedures:

0 Each advisory council shall have the authority to establish such
committees as are necessary. Committee membership may be drawn

from others outside the advisory council.

° Financial records and transactions shall be audited by a committee
of auditors appointed by the recreation commission at the end of the

council’s fiscal year.

° Major donations and/or equipment may be accepted only on the

approval of the recreation commission.

' There shall be no solicitation of funds without prior approval of

 

 

The quarterly magazine with new
weaving ideas in each issue

Write for brochure

listing previous issues of special interest
for weaving classes in recreation proiects.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

1 yr.  $5 2 yrs  $9
3 yrs -...-....-......$I2

Pan-American 8: Foreign rates 31 a year
extra. Single c0pies $1.35

Hondweover 8. Craftsman
246 mm AVENUE NEW YORK 1

TABLE AND
CHAIR TRUCKS

,1

-‘ towmc
PEDOESTAL TABLES

ing to Churches, Schools,
Clubs, Lodges and all orgoni-
zotions. MONROE 1963
- Folding Bonquet Tables are
unmatched for quolity, duro-
bility, convenience ond hond-
some oppeoronce. 94 models and sizes for
every use. Write for prices, cotolag.

FREE -- BIG 1963 CATALOG

Cotar pictures. Putt tine MONROE tables, chairs.
table and chair trucks, platform-risers. port-
able partitions. Write today!

THE MONROE 00., 181 Church St.. Colfax, ta_m

’i

 

Partitions

 

the recreation commission.

' Major improvements and alterations shall have the approval of the
recreation commission before being undertaken.

° Minutes of the council meetings shall be sent to the recreation

commission and the recreation department oflice.
° The bylaws of individual councils shall be approved by the recre-

ation department. Current copies of all council’s bylaws shall be

on file in the recreation department office.

' An opportunity shall be accorded the advisory councils to meet

City Revitalized

Continued from Page 267

sion provides swimming instructions
for children attending the public schools
in the immediate area of the DeSoto
Center pool. This is part of the schools’
physical-education program.

During the fall, winter, and spring,
twelve recreation centers and thirty-six
after-school programs are operated.
Two of the recreation centers are lo-
cated in housing-project areas. Activi-
ties in these centers include arts and
crafts, athletics, billiards, hoxing, dra-
matics, drilling, fencing, individual
sports, music and dancing, physical lit-
ness, tiny tots, and senior citizens.

Exclusive of the playground program
there are some thirty-live hundred soft-
ball and baseball teams with nearly sixty
thousand participants, which use the
lighted softball and haseball fields. This
program has continued to improve and
be of service to thousands of persons in
the community who participate in these
activities.

Naturally, because of the tremendous
program expansion that has been going
on, it was necessary to restructure the
administration of the recreation divi-
sion. This reorganization is now com-
plctc and has stood the test of actual
operation. The division is headed by
Commissioner of Recreation James E.
Heath and two deputy commissioners.
one in charge of programing and the
other of administration, and live recre-
ation supervisors each in charge of a
specific area of the city.

The recreation division has a staff of
227 persons year round and this is sup-
plemented by 412 playground personnel
in the summer months. The operating
budget of the recreation division was
over a million dollars in 1962.

A fact not to be overlooked here is
that, in addition to the 311,000,000
bond issue for park and recreation pur-

poses, over $1,500,000 has been devoted

with the recreation commission on a scheduled basis. #

 

to the park and recreation purposes over
blighted sections of the city. This was
just part of the city’s contribution in a
vast rehabilitation program to eliminate
neighborhood decay. Under this special
project, six existing parks were redevel-
oped to provide park and playground
areas in those blighted neighborhoods
that lacked these facilities. Three sites
were also purchased and are being de-
veloped. Fourteen-acre Benton Park,
whose history dates back to the Civil
War, is a fine example of park rehabili-
tation. After its face-lifting in the sum-
mer of 1962, it attracted over ten thou-
sand youngsters to its facilities and
programs.

Citizens of St. Louis are mighty
proud of all of these many park and
recreation developments and promise
delegates to the 1963 National Recrea-
tion Congress that St. Louis will he a
rewarding and exhilarating experience,
because they will truly see more than
they did in 1954——and realize why St.

Louis has been renamed the Gateway

to the West. #

 

Nation-Wide Testing Program

Continued from, Page 268

trict association. The AAU Public Rec-
reation Committee will then accept the
point scores of all district association
champions in order to compile the tab-
ulations to identify the outstanding boy
and girl within each group on a national
basis. Suitable awards will be presented
to the champions in each playground,
the district association champions, and
finally the national champions. The na-
tional champions will be announced at
the time of the AAU Convention in San
Diego, Decemher 4-8.

All departments of recreation inter-
ested in participating in this program
should write to Ben York, Chairman,
National AAU Public Recreation Com-
mittee, AAU House, 231 West 58th
Street, New York 19, for details. #

PERSONNEL

 

EIGHTH NATIONAL INSTITUTE
FOR
PUBLIC RECREATION EXECUTIVES

OMMUNICATION is the magic word
today in most any enterprise. It is
especially important to a growing pro-
fession like recreation which is trying
hard to create and project an appropri-
ate image. How to get through to the
public official, the new recruit, or the
general public will always be a major
problem. How to communicate effec-
tively with these many publics and how
to improve in telling our story is a con-
tinuing challenge. Therefore, “Force-
fuI Communication through Audio-Vis—
ual Resources” will be the theme for
the National Recreation Association’s
Eighth National Institute for Public
Recreation Executives to be held Sep-
tember 28-29 in St. Louis, Missouri, just
before the opening of the 45th National
Recreation Congress. Special arrange-
ments have been made to house the In-
stitute in the city’s heautiful new Plane-
tarium, which in itself is an audio-visual
facility (see also Page 267).

Recreation leaders who understand
the importance of audio-visual materi-
als and master the skills for their effec-
tive use will enjoy a competitive advan-
tage in securing financial support and
public acceptance. This will require
more effective use of all communication
media, particularly the new systems, de-
vices, techniques, methods. and equip-
ment now known and available. Insti-
tute delegates will participate and have
an opportunity to work with materials,
use equipment, and operate the latest
machines that will he on exhibit. Drs.
Janet MacLean and Theodore Deppe,
members of the Indiana University rec—
reation faculty and also specialists in
visual resources, are writing a manual
entitled Forcefnl Communication
through Visual 'Rcsoarces. This will
serve as the basic text for the Institute
and will be on sale. Institute subject
areas will include “Communication
Problems and Solutions”: “Cross Media
Approach to Use of Visuals”; “Prepara-
tion of Materials”; “Suggestions for
Implementing Better Communications
through Annual Reports, Speeches, In-
service Training Programs”; and

 

MR. SUTIIERLAND is director of the Na—
tional Recreation Association’s Recrea-
tion Personnel Service.

JUNE. 1963

 

W. C. Sutherland

“Sources and Utilization of Audio-Vis-
uaI Materials.”

The staff for the Institute includes:
Harvey R. Frye,
assistant professor
of cducation,
School of Educa-
tion, Indiana Uni-
versity. He has
been supervisor of
graphic arts at the
university’s Audio—
Visual Center since 1950. He organized
the center’s first course in “Preparation
of Inexpensive Instructional Materials,”
organized the first motionspicture ani-
mation section at the university and
served as animator for ten educational

films.

 

Dr. John Mold-

stad, associate pro-
fessor of education
and head of the
utilization depart-
ment at Indiana
University’s Audio-
Visual Center. Be-
fore entering uni-
versity work, he was a mathematics and
science teacher and later a municipal
audio-visual director.

Dr. Theodore
Deppe, associate
professor of recrc-
ation at Indiana
University. He is a
member of the
board of directors
of the Indiana Park
and Recreation As-
sociation and author of the recently

published Recreation in American Life
( see Page 292 ).

 

 

Dr. Janet R. Mac-

Lean, associate
professor of recre-
ation at Indiana
University. She is
chairman of the
NRA’s Recruitment
Subcommittee of
the National Ad-
visory Committec on the Recruitment
Training and Placement of Recrcation
Personnel. She is also a member of the
Inter-College Council on Aging and the
Leisure Committee of the Indiana Com-

  

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

mission on Aged and Aging. Dr. Mac-
Lean is co-author of Recreation in
American Life (see Page 292) and
wrote the cditorial on “The Challcnge
of Leisure in Old Age” in RECREATION
Magazine, May 1963.
Adrian Terlouw, educational consult-
ant for Eastman Kodak Company, Ro-
chester, New York. He will do a special
presentation on “Communication Prob-
lems and Salutations” and will also as-
sist with other parts of the program.
The Institute’s quota of a llundrcd
executivcs wiII bc strictly ohscrved.
Managing authorities consider the In-
stitute an important part of inservicc
training for their cxecutives. Over sixty
percent of the departments were billed
for the Institute fee last year.

 

   

he

g.

   
  

SNO-KONES

The fastest selling
hat-weather item

available. More than
8c profit per 10c

. salell Equipment
‘ from $149.50.
.hw J.
POPCORN
' °*-~ Popcorn is enjoyed

by over 95% of the

 
       
    

! American public. 8c
profit per
| 10c sale.
5 Equipment
f r a m

 
 

$199.00”

   

it a??- WL"? 4-) to' "r"
cute 09, r

ochuras etc... on :- ""01
your refreshment operet.en. r... n,
thing you need from one 30an fat
Sna-Kanes', Popcorn, Hot Dogs, Cat:
ton Candy and many other that are“!
items! ‘ .

   

Refreshment Supply Division

sow MEDAL mount 0.

1839-49 Freeman Avenue-Cincinnati 14, Ohio

Change of Address

If you are planning to move. notify
us at least thirty days before the date
of the issue with which it is to take ef-
fect, if possible, in order to receive
your magazines without interruption.
Send both your old and new addresses
by letter, card or post oflice form 3575
to: Subscription Department, RECREA-
1105' Magazine, 8 West Eighth Street,
New York 11, N. Y.

285

‘
I.‘.
I...

I I! In
I I I‘-
III-II--
IIL ‘Ilr

I?!
'I' III IIL ‘I'

I
1
L
I
I
I
I
r

all III. I
«III! I'll:

in

‘IIIIII’
III-II
IIII'

‘u

all
IIII ‘
I...
--

 

‘II' A

RECREATION
DIGEST

This art-science activity
can be effectively adapted
for use by playground

or indoor recreation groups

Our Own Space Project

 

_ a—

As eyes gaze slcyward, imaginations shape dreams about life
on other planets, from. frozen Neptune to redhot Mercury.

BERNARD l. FORMAN

RT AND SCIENCE are not nearly so far apart as is popu-
larly assumed. Certainly much more could and should

be done to emphasize their interrelationship, to show
that both require the exercise of creative imagination, and
that both can benefit from an exchange of knowledge, tech-
niques. and points of view. At Clcveland School, Newark,
New Jersey, we undertook “Our Own Space Project.” which
combined art and science. Current preoccupation with space
and space travel has made it a matter of common everyday
interest to children and adults alike.

We laid the groundwork for our space explorations by
doing some preliminary research. To refresh laggard mem-
ories, we first reviewed some of the better known facts about
the geography of the solar system. We then prepared sim-
ple charts and drawings to visualize the relationship of the

MR. FORMAIV is an art teacher at Cleveland School, Newark,

New Jersey. This rnaterial is digested with permission from
Arts and Activities, December, 1962.

planets and their satellites to the sun and to each other. We
also referred to such elementary science material as was
readily available. This included several pamphlets published
by the American Museum of Natural History and the 1960
illustrated series on “The Geography of the Universe” in Li fe
magazine which we had in our picture “morgue.” Other
illustrations of scientific and pseudo-scientific “conjecture”
were displayed to help the children choose their destination
and to stimulate their imaginations constructively.

After the initial spadcwork, the children were asked to
“make bclicve” that each was riding in a space ship hcaded
for a distant planet or one of its satellites. \Vhat kind of
strangc landscape would mcet their eyes when they landed?
How would the sky diffcr from the onc they were familiar
with? Was it possible that they might find somc forms of
life that people on earth had ncver evcn dreamed of ? Would
the colors and shapes and “feel” of things be the same or
entirely differcnt?

Understandably, most of the children were fascinated by
strange, yet familiar, Saturn with its weirdly beautiful rings.
For a while it seemed that its satellite Titan, the only one with
a known atmosphcre, was doomed to be badly overcrowded.
However, a little judicious guidance soon moved other space
pionecrs to hcad for the frozen wastes of Neptune and Ura-
nus and thc incrcdibly hot terrains of Mercury and Venus.

Once the previously untrodden planetary landscapes had
becn rccorded in fanciful tempera paintings, it was a rela-
tively simple mattcr to progress to the next stcp, the con-
struction of three-dimensional “creatures from outer space.”
For this, we used papier-méiché built on cores of rolled-up
newspaper along with cardboard boxes, paper plates, card-
board tubes, and soft wire. The completed figures were
painted in basic colors of tempera and hnished off with she]-
lac, and the weirder the colors and shapes, the bctter.

“Our Own Space Project” effectively demonstrated the
close allinity of the arts and sciences and the feasibility of
using the suhject matter of science as a springboard into the
realm of fancy. In our quest for more meaningful ways of
vitalizing everyday experience, we discovered that imagina-
tion is the common denominator of both art and scicnce. #

A Reporter’s Notebook
Continued from Page 271

 

Notes on the Cuff

0 Busy housewives and their employed
sisters are not forgotten in the sports
program of the Los Angeles City Rec-
reation and Parks Department. Slow-
pitch softball teams have been organized
‘ for women over eighteen, with hours
designed to accommodate housewives
_ and businesswomen.

o A falconry club, recently organized
i by the Montreal Parks Department, will
- help teach its members to train birds of

prey—falcons, hawks, buzzards, gos-
‘ hawks, and eagles.

PEOPLE IN THE NEWS
T h o m a s W .

Lantz, superin-
tendent of public
recreation for the
Metropolitan Park
District, Tacoma,
Washington, re-
ceived an award as
an outstanding teacher in the area of
recreation from the American Council

 

 

of Adminier -mrs ut “t-‘dllh, Physical
Education, 1'. 1 Recreation at a lunch-
eon meeting.r mld in Minneapolis in

May.

Ernest H. Could,
a sixteen-year vet-
cran of the New
Orleans Recreation
Department, 11 as
b e e n n a m e d

NORD's executive
assistant director.

He replaces the late G. Gernon Brown
who died in January. Mr. Gould is sec-
ond in command to NORD’s dollar-a-
year director Lester J. Lautenschlaeger.
Mr. Gould was NORD program direc-
tor since 1960; prior to that time he was
athletic director. He has been active in
every phase of the NORD program. In
addition to his many other duties, he
assumed full control of football, track,
and day camp. A star football player at
Tulane University in the middle 30’s, he
made the All-Southeastern Conference
team as a center in 1935. He played with
Tulane against Temple in the inaugural
Sugar Bowl game on January 1, 1935.

Adolph Marie, noted naturalist, con-
servationist, and author, recently re-
ceived the annual award of the John
Burroughs Memorial Association for
his book A Naturalist in Alaska. This
is the highest award in America for
publication of a book in the field of
natural history. Mr. Murie joins such
eminent Burroughs Medal winners as
William Beebe, Joseph Wood Krutch,
liogcr Torey Peterson, Rutherford
Platte, Edwin Way Teale, and Robert
Cushman Murphy. Mr. Murie was for
many years associated with the U.S.
Fish and Wildlife Service and is now
field research biologist for the National
Park Service. His major work has been

done in Mount McKinley Park.

Joseph F. Kaylor, director of Mary-
land Forests and Parks for the past
twenty years, is the new assistant to the
director of the U.S. Department of the
lnterior’s Bureau of Outdoor Recrea-
tion. Mr. Kaylor will help administer
all phases of the bureau’s work, with
emphasis on state-federal relations and
assistance to states. He will assist in co-
ordinating federal outdoor recreation

 

Guides to Educational and Recreational Opportunities

THE HANDBOOK OF PRIVATE SCHOOLS

Up-to-the-minute, vital facts and figures for over 2000 schools: elementary and
secondary, boarding and day, boys’, girls” and coed. Maps and classified lists aid
in locating schools and desired features. Also included are directories of asso-
ciations, foundations, agencies, publications and services.

44th ed., 1963, 1376 pp., illus., $10.00

GUIDE TO SUMMER CAMPS AND SUMMER SCHOOLS

Private resident camps, tours, unusual Opportunities in the arts and. selenccs, pro-
grams for the handicapped and maladjusted, and snnnncr academic sessions are

informativcly presented to aid in the selection of an exciting summer experience.
13th ed., 1962, 320 pp., illus., cloth 84.40, paper $2.20

DIRECTORY FOR EXCEPTIONAL CHILDREN

Essential data and descriptions of programs and policies of several thousand pub-
lic and private schools, homes, hospitals and clinics for children who are men-
tally retarded, emotionally disturbed or physically handicapped. Constitutlng
an auxiliary section are lists of federal and state agenc1es and assoclatlons con-
ecrned with the education and welfare of the exceptional.

4th ed., 1962, 656 pp., illus., 36.00

PORTER SARGENT PUBLISHER, 11 BEACON STREET, BOSTON 8, MASS.

JUNE, 1963

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

287

programs. administrating the proposed
l'md “Tr? water conservation fund, en-
. :LIdryug interstate and regional co-
(pr-ration. and surveys of proposed na-
tional ru 111111011 areas. ( see Page 257 ) .
Dr. Harold D. Meyer, chairman of
the recreation curriculum at the Uni-
versity of North Carolina in Chapel
Hill, recently received a Red Cross cita-
tion for his contributions in assisting
in the training of staff for the Red Cross
Service in Military and Veterans Hos-

NOT EVEN YOUR POSTMAN KNOWS YOU‘RE GETTING

mount/Min

it

If you're between 25 and 65. steadily employed. you
can borrow up to $600 on YOUR SIGNATURE ALONE.
OUR SERVICE IS: FAST—We rush the money to you
whzn your application has been processed.
CONFIDENTIAL—We DO NOT notify employer, refer-
ences or relatives. .
SIMPLE—wNo embarrassing interviews. no time off
from work. Fill out the application in the privacy of
your home. Drop it in the mail.

GOVERNMENT CONTROLLED We are licensed by the
State, end operate under the Division of Finance.
Dept. of Business Administration.

.Iust circle the monthly payment you desire. till In
the epplication blank below and send it to us,

CASH 12 18 24
YOU MD. M0. M0.
RECEIVE PMTS.‘ PMTS.‘ PMTS.‘
$200 19.36 13.80 11.04
300 29.04 20.70 16.56
400 38.72 27.63 22.10
500 48.45 34.61 27.78
600 57.79 41.16 32.93

'The ebove payments include creditor life
insurence.

———_————_—————

PRINT INFORMATION REQUESTED BELOW
NAME_.__._________AGE._.___

ADDRESS... __._...___—_—.———————
Street No.

CITY._ __ __ ___.._STATE___________

HDW LONG. _____TELEPHONE NO.____.___ -

EMPLOYED BY_,__.___ _+ __

HOW LONG SALARY___._____.__ _

OCCUPATION-

NAME OF SPOUSE_._.____.___._._.._._ _
EMPLOYED BY—
DATE YOU WISH TO PAY- .._______ _.._ _

1.___—_______ _.

2.__—.—_ _ _ __

3.

SIGNEO___.______._
Rendering Faithful Service For A Quarter Century

ACCEPTANCE @ CORPORATION

BOX 659. POPLAR BLUFF, MISSOURI
DEPARTMENT 13

I
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
I CREDIT REFEREN CES
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
I

288

 

When writincr In our anVpl-tianr: “Inns-.9 mantinn

pitals. Dr. Meyer has been associated
with the SMVH initial training course
for newly employed recreation and case

aides since 1958.

Ronald Paige has been named park
superintendent of the Los Angeles
County Department of Parks and Rec-
reation, filling the post left vacant by
former Park Superintendent Harold
Meserve, who has accepted the director-
ship of the Fresno County Department
of Parks and Recreation. Thirty-seven-
year-old Mr. Paige, a graduate in land-
scape architecture at Michigan State
University, has headed the park plan-
ning division for the county since 1956.
He will head the largest county park op-
eration in the country. His duties as
park superintendent will be to admin-
ister park planning, grounds mainte-
nance, golf courses, roadside trees and
construction, and building maintenance
divisions. These operations entail an-
nual expenditures exceeding several
million dollars.

Cliff Sclmake, long director of the
Recreation Department of the Canton,
Ohio, School Disrict, retired in May at
the age of seventy. A genial man with
many friends in the recreation move-
ment. Cliff says, “I have had it,” al-

though his hale and hearty looks belie
such an assertion.

Colonel Theodore P. Bank, presi-
dent of the Athlctic Institute, has been
hailed as the Fourth Annual Industrial
Sportsman of the Year by the National
Industrial liecrcation Association. Be-
fore joining the Athletic Institute,

Colonel Bank was chief of the Army
Athletic, Recreation and Physical Train-
ing Division.

James L. Brislor
received the Weir
Award for the Out-
standing Graduate
Recreation Student
at Indiana Uni-
versity for 1963.
This award is given
by a committee of students and is based
on services to the Recreation Society
and the professional field of recreation.
Mr. Bristor received the award at the
annual Lebert H. Weir Banquet at
which the speaker was William Fred-
erickson, J r., general supervisor of the
Los Angeles City Recreation and Parks
Department. Mr. Frederickson spoke on
“The Structure of Leisure in a Modern
A1ncrican Society.”

 

 

IN MEMORIAM

 

0 DR. CYRUS F. STIMSON, a member of
the National Recreation Association
field staff from 1913-1932, died recently
in Wellneet, Massachusetts, on the day
before his ninety-third birthday. A
Congregationalist minister, Dr. Stimson
gave notable service in thc field for nine-
tcen years during the early promotion
ycars of the National Recreation As-
sociation and the recreation movement.
He contributcd grcatly to the recreation
field during the strenuous years of
World War I, the prOSperous postwar
period during which recreation work
expander] greatly, and into the opening
ycars of the Depression of the thirties.

 

Physical Fitness Pilot Project
Continued from Page 277

 

o The average adolescent boy can be
subjected to the most rigorous of physi-
cal-fitness programs. Provided there is
proper motivation, he can complete
them and show marked improvement in
all areas.

the
schools should be extended to one and

0 Physical-education classes in

a half hours, twice a week. The present
class length of forty-five minutes is in-

R rm:- 1 'rln'u

adequate to meet present-day needs for
building physical fitness.

- Mentally handicapped children have
much to gain by participating in a
physical-fitness program. Tests geared
to their capabilities can improve their
coordination and motivation. Since
ninety-nine percent of the communities
in the United States have no recreation
programs for these handicapped chil-
dren, a physical-fitness program on a
nationwide level could contribute a
great deal towards conditioning the ox-
ceptional child for a more active par-

ticipation in community life. #

Harm.“ A'rrnm

RESOURCE GUIDE

 

New Products

0 Do drop it in! An efficient, large-
capacity waste receptacle, made Of dura-
ble, rustprOOf fiberglass-reinforced plas-
tic, has been tested for more than one
year in three Florida beach-area cities.
The container and its finish have suc-
cessfully withstood the corrosive salt air
Of Palm Beach, Boca Eaton, and Pom-
panO Beach where they are now perma-
nently positioned on city streets. The
new waste receptacle is specially de-
signed tO prevent rain from entering.
A crown-and-grooved top and slanted
door platform drains Off on the outside and not to thc inside.
The container’s one-piece skirt is impervious tO fading or
rusting and has seamless, rounded corners which won’t col-
lect dirt or snag clothing. Doors on two sides open independ-
ently and have full-width hinging tO close tightly. The entire
top section is hinged inside for maximum protection against
rust. The receptacle is lightweight and permanent installa-
tion is a one-man operation. An inner reservoir lifts out
easily for periodic emptying. Two sizes are available, each
forty-two inches high. One is 24”-by-24” with 7”-hy-22”
door openings. Standard colors are white, blue, green, grey,
and yellow; doors may be matching or contrasting colors.
Special colors tO match interior or exterior decoration are
available. Since it is fiberglass-reinforced plastic, no peri-
Odic repainting is required. The unit sponges clean with a
damp cloth or can be lightly hosed down as required. Its
smooth, clean outer surface permits messages tO be applied
if desired. For further information write tO Paul Keller, Di-

versified Plastics, Inc., 1000 N.W. Slst Place, Fort Lauder-
dale, Florida.

 

0 NO trespassing. A ncw, immersible netting, 01" end, has
been developed by a textile firm as a low-cost, easily in-
stalled water-borne barrier, or sea fence, tO keep beaches
and beach water clear of everything from debris and sea-
weed to jellyfish and sharks. Made Of woven Calite poly-
propylene fabric, the new device has been described by one

beach operator as being, “finally, a good, lasting solution
to a continual problem.” The material is being produced in
srxty-elght-lnch widths on one hundred-yard rolls.

As many vertical lengths Of the screening as are necessary
are joined together (with a felled seam) tO form a fence
stretching the full width of a swimming and beach arca. The
fence is then attached to aluminum or galvanized posts
placed ten feet apart around the area to be screened. The
netting can be floated into place, since it has the same specific
gravity as salt water. The fence, secured two feet above mean
high water and stretched tO its width below the waterlinc,
then forms a barrier that screens out offensive scawecd, elly-

fish, debris, and fish.

The C-Fend sea fence has been undergoing severe, actual-
use tests in the Florida keys since early last year. Results
show only slight deterioration tO the material—either tO that
portion which has been CXposed to the sun or tO that portion
which has been under water. C-Fend is marketed nationally
by canvas products distributors. For further information,
write tO Summit Canvas Company, Summit, New Jersey.

0 The label tells the story. Motion-picture training films,
particularly the more popular 16MM subjects, are in almost
constant movement tO take care of requests for showings.
The metal film cans usually receive a considerable share of
hard usage. This often creates a problem in keeping the can
labels in good, readable condition. The Florida Coopera-
tive Film Library, Department of Visual Education, Talla-
hassee, Florida, solved this problem by labcling all 16MM
film containers with a new black-and-yellow dccal. The de-
cal is made tO fit the center circle of the standard film cans
and one decal size serves tO identify all film container sizes.
An area is provided on the decal for lettering the title, num-
her, and other essential information for identification and
cataloging. Information on choice of correct design and
production of motion-picture film container labels for com-
mercial, industrial, and educational film libraries and your
department’s film library may be obtained from The Meyer-
cord Company, 5323 West Lake Street, Chicago 44.

EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES

OLD AND NEW GLORY. Handcrafted flags for
parades, indoor displays, presentations are
made of thread-dyed rayon or nylon taffeta
specially made for use in flags. Complete U.S.
flag sets as well as Christian flags, Papal flags,
and Zion flags. Accessories, such as finials,
poles, stands, cords and tassels also available
from manufacturer. For brochure and price
list, write to Elder Manufacturing Company,
535 North Water Street, Milwaukee, Wis-

consin.

Etcnr OUNCES or PREVENTION. A new emer-
gency food kit, weighing less than eight
ounces, solves an old problem that has plagued
outdoorsmen, campers, and Sportsmen. Now
it is no longer necessary to put together a
long list of survival items to meet the possi-

For further information, please write directly to source given

JUNE, 1963

Free Aids

hility of becoming lost or stranded. Two years
of field research have resulted in the creation,
testing, and completion of this kit which is
termed an “overnighter.” The kit is complete,
compact, efficient, and contains enough food
for twenty-four hours. It will fit in a sportshirt
pocket, is waterproof, and unconditionally
guaranteed by the packer for two years. Con-
tents are a compressed cereal har, starch
jelly har, tropical chocolate bars (all govern-
ment-approved foods) toilet paper, single-
edge razor hlade, hand aids, monofilament
fishing line, fish hooks, salt packets, wax-
dipped wooden matches, a large sheet of extra
heavy aluminum foil (to shape into a cooking
pot), and a detailed instruction booklet. The
kit can be stored in a car dash compartment,
aboard small aircraft, ahoard small boats,
with hunting, fishing, or camping gear. For

additional information write Chuck Wagon
Foods, Newton 64, Massachusetts.

CONCESSIONS GALORE. Machines for fun and
profit include automats, hot dog, cotton candy,
candy apple, popcorn, and a delicate contrap-
tion which makes rosecakes or deep-fried waf-
fies in whimsical patterns. For further infor-
mation on concession equipment, write to Con-
cession Supply Company, Toledo 13, Ohio.

WHERE SHADE AND PROTECTION AaE NEEDED.
All-steel Breezeport shelters for parks, play-
grounds, picnic areas, golf courses, outdoor
displays, pools, and marinas come completely
packaged, can he holted together in one hour.
They can withstand winds of hurricane forcc,
are weatherproof, fireproof, and termiteproof.
For literature write to Kwik-Bilt, Inc., Box

6834, Dallas, Texas.

and mention RECREATION Magazine.

289

PROGRAM AIDS

WORTHWHILE sxcunsrons. If conservation is
to be meaningful to young people, certain
basic experiences are essential. Nothing can
take the place of personal participation in
outdoor demonstrations and experiments. To
help you plan and carry out excursions (even
brief ones to vacant lots, grassy hillsides,
woodlands, streams, and ponds), the U.S.
Forest Service oliers Conservation Activities
for Young People. This covers field excur-
sions, demonstrations or experiments, exhibits
or collections, subjects to explore further,
subjects to write or talk about, posters to
make, themes for slogan contests, pledges and
codes to formulate, picture collections, and
panel discussions. Single copies available free
upon request from the Forest Service, U.S.
Department of Agriculture, Washington 25,
D.C. (Also ask for the listing of Materials
to Help Teach Forest Conservation.)

WITH A FLARE. Fireworks for parks, fairs,
picnics, parades, and special celebrations in-
clude silver shooting stars, aerial cascades,
showers of pearls, tropical storms, birds of
paradise, jeweled jet fountains, Niagara Falls,
and other blazes trailing glory. For a com-
plete list of fireworks displays write to the
Standard Specialty Company, 00stburg, Wis-

con sin.

THE QUIET EXPLOSION. Since 1940, book sales
in America have increased more than ten times
faster than our population. In 1940 Americans
bought an average of one book a year. Today
they buy an average of more than five books
a year. Almost a billion books were published
or sold in 1960 alone! The dramatic story of
America’s changing reading habits are told
in a booklet with illustrations in color entitled
The Reading Explosion, which not only ex-
plores this cultural phenomenon but offers
tips on interesting children in reading, im-
proving reading habits, and choosing hooks.
Copies available free from the International
Paper Company, G.P.0. Box 1653, New York 1.

NINE OPPORTUNITIES for service-minded youth.
Nine leaflets published by the American Na-
tional Red Cross delineate programs for youth
in international relations, blood programs,
safety services, disaster services, nursing serv-
ices, fund raising, public information, home
service, and other community services. For
copies, get in touch with your local Red Cross
chapter.

WHILE THERE IS STILL TIME. Land patterns
of the future are being decided today. So says
Secretary of the Interior Stewart L. Udall
in the foreword to a new National Park Serv-
ice brochure, Future Parks for the Nation,
which proposes thirty-four areas of national
significance that might he acquired for use
as federal, state, or local park and recreation
areas. Located in twenty-six states, these areas
extend from the Allagasb in Maine to Whis-
keytown-Shasta-Trinity in California. Con-
tained in the eight-page folder is a chart show-
ing the growth of the National Park system
prior to and following World War II as well
as a discussion of the features of President
Kennedy’s proposed Land and Water Conser-
vation Fund. Copies are free upon request
from the National Park Service, Department
of the Interior, Washington 25, D. C.

nnn

Low Cost Aids ----—

CHILn’s PLAY is a serious business and em-
braces a wide repertory of activities, toys, play
materials, and games. A guide to the selection
of toys and games for infants to twelve-year-
Olds entitled Play—Children’s Business con-
tains material on play and child devclopment
and is a valuable reference on toys to suit vari-
ous age levels, travel games and activities, and
the creative uses of inexpensive materials.
Available for 3.75 from the Association for
Childhood Education International, 3615 Wis-
consin Avenue, N.W., Washington 16, D.C.

MUU MUUS AND KERRY CLOAKS. It takes six-
teen yards of cloth to make a Scotsman’s kilt,
just six yards for an Indian sari, and sixteen
hundred separate parts to make a suit for
outer space. Hundrcds of clothing customs
and facts are described and handsomely illus-

trated in crayon-like drawings in a new full-

color children’s book, The Wonderful World
of Clothes, created by Robert Hall Clothes,
national retail clothing chain, in cooperation
with the U.S. Committee for UNICEF, as a
tribute to the United Nations Children’s Fund.
Full of fascinating facts and costume ideas
for pageants, parades, plays, and international
fetes. The paper-doll and crayon set will love
it. The forty-page book covers thirty-four
countries, sells for $.50, with all profits do-
nated to UNICEF, and may bc ordered by
sending cash, check, or money order to “The
Wonderful World of Clothes,” P.O. Box 2600,
New York 1.

 

Bsaarsn TREASURE. A natural resources edu-
cational packet, The World Around You,
contains leaflets on “Berried Trcasure for
Your Birds,” a study manual on “Our Natural
Resources,” a demonstration guide on soil
erosion, a discussion of nature’s rain barrels
(swamps, marshes, and bogs) and others.
The packet is available for $.50 from the
Garden Club of America Conservation Com-
mittee, 598 Madison Avenue, New York 22.

TARGET IDEAS. Colorful booklct includes ideas
for a variety of archery targets—~bicycle tirc
covered with cardboard, ncsted boxes, hay
bales, balloons, paper plates, et cetera. To

learn how to have more fun with archery send
5.25 for Archery Tips to Paul Bunyan, 1030
Marshall Street N.E., Minneapolis 13.

OUR NATIONAL PARKS. A series of reasonably
priced books are fact-filled tours of our na-
tional parks and are useful aids for study and
in planning trips, as well as wonderful guides
and souvenirs for visitors. They also provide
fascinating armchair reading. The breath-
taking illustrations are in full color. Three of
the books cover three parks, another covers
four. The titles include Yosemite, Sequoia,
Kings Canyon, and Hawaii; Grand Canyon,
Zion, and Bryce Canyon; Rocky Mountain,
Mesa Verde, and Carlsbad Caverns; and Yel-
lowstone, Glacier, and Grand Teton. Leaders,
parents, camping or study groups will find
them invaluable in becoming acquainted with
these parks. Available from Follett Publish-
ing Company, 1010 West Washington, Chicago
7, for $1.95 each. (Also ash: for Follett’s
Spring 1963 catalogue which includes nature-
adventure books, beginning science books,
children-of-the-world books, and many others.)

1 ..._.'“. . _. ‘. v.
p .

a:

4 . _. .
.. ‘ .éégxxa _ ' I _:__ _.,._ V,  ._.:.. e ._...,._.h.l..._. . ._._._ .._= ._ I

DEX TO

       

Page
American locker . ._ ._ -  261
American Playground Device _-_ -..__..._____ 293
Brunswick Sports  25l
Carabo-Cone  294
Classified Advertising ______________________ _- 294
Dimco-Gray   263
Electro-Mech .....s ........................... __ _ 253
General Indicator ___________________________ __ 294
Gold Medal .  285
Handweaver 8 Craftsman __________________ _- 284
Hillerich 8 Bradsby __   Inside Back Cover
Kwikbilt __-..-----__.___--__-_.__-..  270
Miracle Equipment  _ __ Back Cover
Monroe Company ___________________________ -_ 284
Murdock Acceptance _..-__...-_--_-_._.___-.._-__-- 288
National Studios ._--_--_..-..-h._--._--_- 270 8 294
Playground Summer Notebook -__._..___---- _ 253

Porter Athletic Equipment  Inside Front Cover
Porter Sargent _  _  _. _-__ 287

Swank Motion Pictures  ._.---.._.._--_._---_ 293

School Activities _  -H- lnside Back Cover

Tandy leather _.___-_.._..__- .-.,- 29l
Toilaflex -_ _.--....--_-..h__.._____.-_- 280
U.S. Army  _.__..__-,_--__-_---_........ 274
World Wide Games  29l

 

Voluntary Recreation-Time

Accident Coverage

This new improved plan. available to
participants in programs of NRA-Affiliated
recreation agencies and departments. is
now in effect in thirty states. The plan may
be installed by your local insurance agent
or broker. New enrollments may begin at
various times throughout the year as new
groups of participants come into your vari~
ous programs. Baseball and softball cover-
age is included under this new plan. which
covers all recreation activities except con-
tact sports and skiing. For additional in-
formation write to Frank Rowe. National
Recreation Association. 8 West 8th Street,
New York 11 (ask for Bulletin #8 and
brochure).

 

Br FOR THE ILL 86" HANDICAPPED

 

i‘ Under the direction of Executive
Director H. Donald Burr, the Philadel-
phia Association for Retarded Children
is operating an outstanding recreation
program for both children and adults
with the cooperation of the Philadelphia
Department of Recreation, other com-
munity agencies, and civic clubs and
groups. In each instance, the communi-
ty recreation department or another
community agency has supplied the
facility and, in most instances, the staff.
The program includes:

0 A Saturday recreation program from
October to June for boys and girls aged
five to eighteen in cooperation with the
department of recreation.

- Swimming instruction and water

safety in cooperation with the Mid-City
Branch of the YWCA, the American

Red Cross, and the YMHA.

a Young adult socials for those sixteen
and over on the fourth Sunday of each
month.

0 Scouting for boys thirteen and over.
The tr00p follows the regular scouting
program with one week at Scout camp
and alternate month weekend camping.
Also a Girl Scout tr00p for girls thirteen
and over.

0 Arts and crafts for those sixteen and
over and their parents, held weekly with

the COOperation of the School Extension

Division of the School District of Phila-
delphia.

0 Special events, such as holiday activi-
ties, reunions, shows, tickets to ball-
games.

0 Young adult club for those eighteen
to twenty-five who are able to travel by
themselves, meeting twice monthly on
Sundays (parents meet once a month).
0 Camping and day camping, using
public park facilities.

4‘ A directory of Resources [or the
OrthOpedically Disabled in New York
City, consisting of documented infor-
mation on New York’s facilities for
the orthOpedically handicapped is now
available from the Federation of the
Handicapped, 211 West 14th Street,
New York 11. The 163-page directory,

which sells for $1.50 (plus $.15 post-

age) , includes chapters on special equip-
ment for disabled persons, transporta-
tion for the handicapped, agencies for
the orthopedically handicapped, medi-
cal and dental services for the disabled,
recreation, housing facilities, and other

 

DR. THOMPSON is acting director of the
National Recreation Association Con-
sulting Service on Recreation [or the Ill
and Handicapped.

JUNE, 1963

MORTON THOMPSON, Ed.D.

subjects dealing with the needs of the
handicapped.

+ Two brochures on music therapy are
avallable from the Hospitalized Veter-
ans Service of the Musicians Emergency

. Fund, Inc., 745 Fifth Avenue, New

York. One lists Publications in Music
Therapy and the other, Abstracts [rorn
Medical Literature Concerning the Use

0/ Music.

+ A sidecar designed to fit a Schwinn
middleweight bicycle has been devel-
Oped by the Mohs Seaplane Company,
Madison 5, Wisconsin. The company
reports that the Southern Colony for
Retarded Children believes the sidecar
is very functional for carrying retarded
children. The company is also working
on a design for transporting ortho-
pedic cases.

+ The 23rd Annual WorkshOp of the
Eastern Cooperative Recreation School
will be held at the New York Universi-
ty Camp, Holmes, New York, August
24 - September 1. The workshOp will
include dance, dramatics, music, crafts,
games, waterfront activities, children’s
programs, and recreation for the ill and
handicapped. For further information
write to Frank Spriggs, ECRS Business
Manager. 127 Harrison Street, Pough-
keepsie, New York.

’f‘ The Seventh National Wheelchair

Games, sponsored by the Joseph Bulova
School of Watchmaking in cooperation
with the paralyzed veterans of America
and the National Paraplegia Founda-
tion, will, in all probability, bring to-
gether in June the largest array of
wheelchair men and women athletes
ever assembled in competition in the
United States. They will be competing
not only for the coveted awards but,
in addition, for the possibility of being
selected as members of the United
States Wheelchair Team, which will be
sent to participate in the International
Stoke Mandeville Games, to be held at
Stoke Mandeville, England, the end of
July. Benjamin Lipton is chairman of
the Seventh National Wheelchair
Games, 40-24 62nd Street, Woodside
77, New York. The United States
Wheelchair Sports Fund, which last
year allocated $6,000 for sending a
team to England, has now begun a
program for financial support. Those
interested in assisting may write to the

fund at the address given. In 1964, the
Stoke Mandeville Games will be held in

Tokyo, Japan.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

   

 

 

 

DISCOVER THE
ADVANTAGES OF

BRAIDING an
LACING for FUN

Your group can make hundreds of
fascinating items with Tandy’s Dura-
Flex Lacing. lanyards, Key Chains,
Bracelets, Coat Hangers, Belts, etc.

J
"'—

   

 

Get Tandy’s big 32 page book . . . Braid-
ing and lacing . . . with 160 eosy-to-follow
step by step instructions, only 50c pp.

6....-. w sq,“ All these items are
 f .._.=- easily made with
:H.   randy's

,. .. q

4* DURA-FLEX

‘31” LACE

4%

Reinforced for extra
strength, features, sturdy
fabric tape center covered with flame res
sistant plastic—will not stretch or pool-23
colors, 100 yard spoolIr 1.25. Quantity dis.
count to scout groups.

FREE 112 PAGE CATALOG

Crammed full of kits and low-cost sup-
plies, plus discounts for groups.

1‘-
a

     
 
 

  

 

TANDY LEATHER COMPANY
P. O. Box 791-)“: Fort Worth, Texas

“'ORLII W'IDE GAMES

Delaware, 0hio

Enioyed by Adults and Children

0 Sturdin built for rugged use
a Skill games and table games

0 Equipment games and puzzles

o Manufactured and sold by
Warren and Mary Lea Bailey

Write for Free Catalog

 

291

NEW PUBLICATIONS

 

Outdoor Education, Julian W. Smith,
Reynold E. Carlson, George W. Don-
ol'dson, ond Hugh B. Masters. Prentice-
Hall, lnc., Englewood CliHs, New Jer—
sey. Pp.322. $5.95.

Four outstanding leaders in the field
Of outdoor education have brought
together the latest factual and inter-
pretative material in this important
area of education—recreation. Under
one cover, for the first time, a student,
administrator, or community leader can
find clear statements on the background
philOSOphy; the historical development
Of the school camping movement; the
outstanding work being done on college
and university campuses; the objectives
and services Of national agencies; the
relationships and cooperative efforts Of
school, park, and recreation agencies;
and state and federal relationships.

Leadership training, plus the impor-
tance Of acquisition and preservation
Of land, is given a special section, well-
develOped. The final section, “Planning
for Outdoor Education,” is divided
logically intO two chapters, one on what
communities can do; and the other, a
view and forecast of the future Of out-
door education in American life.

Chapter references, and a classified
index add tO the book’s usefulness. The
publisher has given it an attractive
jacket, good paper, and interesting type.
Since the subject is so photogenic, it
is tOO bad that more photographs were
not used for illustration—V. M.

0 See Mr. Corlson's article “Wonder
As You Wander," Poge 272.

Recreation in American life, Reynold
E. Carlson, Theodore R. Deppe, ond
Janet R. MacLeon. Wadsworth Pub-

lishing Company, Belmont, Colifornio.
Pp. 530, illustrated. $7.50.

Written by three dedicated scholars
and professional recreation people ex-
perienced both in field and agency
Operations and in the professional prep-
arations Of recreation leadership, this
book gives an over-all view Of recreation
in the United States as it exists today
and is the most comprehensive and up-
tO-date volume in the recreation field.
Dealing with both public and private
recreation, it identifies all aspects Of
recreation and includes the various set-
tings and specializations. Here is a clear
interpretation Of what recreation is with
its history traced right up tO the latest
developments in local, state, and federal
government agencies. There are des-

292

criptions Of many current recreation
problems, practices, and principles. A
quarter Of the book is devoted tO the
recreation program. The chapter on
recreation leadership goes far beyond
the material in any other recreation

book in its discussion Of what leader--

ship is—its nature, function, and de-
velopment. The authors very wisely
have drawn upon the current literature
and the latest research in developing
the new concept Of leadership in recrea-
tion.

Here is an excellent introductory
text which should be especially helpful
in the orientation Of recreation students
and the public. As a reference book it is
outstanding, for it would be difficult tO
find any phase Of recreation not cov-
ered in some way. A timely and valuable
addition tO our recreation literature, it
should be in public libraries and in the
libraries Of recreation workers, as well
as in the hands Of those teaching rec-
reation courses in high schools, col-
leges, and universities—W. C. Suther-
land, National Recreation Association,
Recreation Personnel Service.

0 See Mr. Carlson's article "Wonder
As You Wonder" on Page 272. For
other news of Drs. Macleon and
Deppe, see Page 285.

NATURE BOOKS

LIVES OF AN OAK TREE, Ross E. Hutch-
ins. Rand McNally and Company, 8255
Central Park Avenue, Skokie, Illinois.

Pp. 64. $2.95.“ One little acorn and

how it grew . . . and grew, and grew,
until it was thrce hundred years old, in
fact, and had seen birds nesting in it
and squirrels climbing on it and rac-
coons raising a family in it. A book
whose illustrations are mouthwatering
(laInbent colors and realistic sketches
Of woods and animal life) and whose
text is ramhling and chatty and unob-
trusively informative.

WAIT AND SEE, Constantine Georgian.
Harvey House, lrvington-on-Hudson,
New York. Unpaged. $2.50.“ Wait and
see, the teacher said, but the children
could hardly wait for the little chicks to
hatch. The lively youngsters who peO-
ple this book can introduce other chil-
dren tO the amazing cycle of growth and
birth. Here, the teacher and her stu-
dents watch the 21-day growth Of an
egg as it changes from protein tO a liv-
ing fowl. The illustrations are fun; the
text is entertaining and accurate.

lt-lv‘or younger readers.

THE TALE OF A WOOD, Henry B. Kane.
Alfred A. Knopf, 501 Madison Avenue,
New York 22, Pp. 114. $3.00.* An ad-
venturous boy exploring the wood looks
at the natural world with wide open
(but not starry) eyes. The author
knows how tO spin a yarn but takes care
not tO obscure natural phenomena with
bogus romance. The photographs,
mostly closeups Of animals and insects
and their dwellings, are magnificent ac-
companiment to a tcxt as moving and
vibrant as the world it describes. The
author has also written Tlte Tale of a

Pond and The Tale of a Meadow.

IN BRIEF

EARLY AMERICAN DECORATIVE PAT-
TERNS AND HOW TO PAINT THEM, Ellen
S. Sabine. D. Van Nostrand Company,
120 Alexander Street, Princeton, New
Jersey. Pp. 199, illustrated. $7.95.
This book would be cherished by a per-
son who has done decoration Of early
furniture. What a wonderful Christmas
or birthday gift it would make! It
would also be interesting tO anyone who
would like tO take up this type Of art
work. The dircctions are all clearly
stated. It will take the place Of the
Esther Stevcns Brazer hook now out-Of-
print and only found in libraries.
——Mary B. Cummings.

LET’S BE INDIANS, Peggy Parish. Har-
er and Row, 49 East 33rd Street, New
ork 16. Pp. 96, illustrated. $2.75.

This gay, engaging book is profusely
illustrated with amusing sketches Of
children in “playlike” Indian activities.
Although written for children, it is so
full Of how-to that a leader Of young
children could find it a gold 1ninc Of
ideas and projects on an Indian theme.
It could be a helpful book for lcaders Of
the five-tO-nines ——- although teacher,
leader, or mother may have tO help in
the reading. Good, tOO, for developing
craft projects such as miniature Indian
villages and so on.

RECREATIONAL ACTIVITY DEVELOPMENT
FOR THE AGING IN HOMES, HOSPITALS
AND NURSING HOMES, Carol Lucas, Ed.
D. Charles C. Thomas, SpringAelrl, Illi-
nois. Pp. 59. $4.25. A comprehensivc,
step-by-step approach tO the recreation
needs Of the institutionalized aged. The
hOOk contains valuahle charts, forms,
and resource lists which will be very
helpful tO administrators and recreation
staffs in the process Of starting or oper-
ating recreation programs—Morton

Thompson Ed. D.

RECREATION

 

BOOKS 8. PAMPHLETS RECEIVED

 

INIMALS, CAMPING, NATURE

\bout Dams, Mabel
Jackson Blvd. 6'

Pp. 63. $2.50.*

\bout Some AnImals That Work for Man, Melvin
John Uhl. Melmont Publ., Jackson Blvd. {'7
Racine Ave., Chicago 7. Pp. 47. $2.50.*

iosic Gardening Illustrated. Lone Books, Menlo
Park, Calif. Pp. 125. Paper, $1.95.

Bird Behavior, J. D. Macdonold, Derek Goodwin
and Helmut E. Adler. SterlIng Publ., 419 Park
Ave. S., New York 16. Pp. 152. $3.95.

Blue Book for Leaders. The. Camp Fire Girls,
g5 0\3’orth St., New York 13. Pp. 186. Paper,

Book. of the Camp
65 Worth St.,
$1.00.

Book of the Junlor Hi Camp Fire Girls. Camp Fire
Girls, 65 Worth St., New Yark 13. Pp. 250.
Paper, $1.00.

Campground Guide, 1963-64, Robert O. Klotz, Sr.
Comp rounds Unlimited, Blue Rapids, Kons.
Pp. 1393. Paper, $1.00.

Camping Handbook (1962 ed.). Science and
Mechanics Publ., 505 Park Ave., New York 22.
Pp. 160. Paper, $.75.

Complete Aquarium, The, D._ Vogt and H.
Wermuth. Arco Publ., 480 LeXIngton Ave., New
York 17. Pp. 268. $4.95.

Field Book of Fresh Water Fishes of North Amer-
ica, Roy Schrenkeisen. G. P. Putnam's 5ons,
$009 Madison Ave., New York 16. Pp. 312.

. 5.

First Guide to Birds, The, Sabro ond Heathcote
Kimball. Doubleday, 575 Madison Ave., New
York 22. Pp. 29. $1.50.

First Guide to Rocks, The, Dorothy Shuttlesworth.
Doubleday, Garden City, N.Y. Pp. 30. $1.50.

Fitfiddles Keep Fit, The, Charlotte Steiner. Alfred
A. Knopf, 501 Madison Ave., New York 22.
Unpaged. $2.95.*

Folklore of American Weather, Eric Sloane. Duell,
Sloan Cr Pearce, 60 E. 42 St., New York 17. Pp.
63. $3.50.

Friendly Dolphins, The, Patricia Lauber. Rondom

(gogs-Se, 457 Madison Ave., New York 22. Pp. 81.
1. .

Good Times on Boots, Will Hayes. Melmont Publ.,
Jackson Blvd. 6' Racine Ave., Chicago 7.
Pp. 47. $2.5M

Grizzly Adams, Horry C. James. Childrens Press,
Jackson Blvd. 6' Racine Ave., Chicago 7.
Pp. 127. $2.50.*

Indian Fishing and Camping, Robert Hofsinde.
William Morrow, 425 Park Ave. 5., New York
16. Pp. 92. $2.75.

Insects Are Where You Find Them, Helen Dom-
rosch Tee-Von. Alfred A. Knapf, 501 Madison
Ave., New York 22. Pp. 76. $2.95.

Insects That Help Plants, About, Gertrude Hevener
Gibson. Melmont Publ., Jackson Blvd. 6' Racine
Ave., Chicago 7. Pp. 47. $2.50.

Let's Go Camping, Let's Go Trailering (3rd ed.),
Albert B. Evons. Troil-R-Club of America, Box
1376, Beverly Hills, Calif. Pp. 175. Paper, $2.50.

Little Creek, Big River, Dwight W. Follett. Follett
Publ., 1010 W. Washington Blvd., Chicago 7.
Pp. 31. $1.50.*

Moolock: Young Salmon Fisherman, Mary M.
Worthylake. Melmont Publ., Jackson Blvd. C1
Rocine Ave., Chicago 7. Pp. 48. $2.50.”=

Outdoor Education, Julian W. Smith, Reynold E.
Corlson, George W. DOnoIdson, and Hugh B.
Mosters. Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, NJ.
Pp. 322. $5.95.

Possum, Robert M. McCIun . William Morrow,
425 Park Ave. 5., New ("York 16. Unpoged.
$2.75.*

Summer’s Duckling, A, Doniel Lang. Harper {'7
Row, 49 E. 33 St., New York 16. Pp. 111.
$2.95.*

Sunset Garden Plons. Lane Book, Menlo Park,
Colif. Pp. 80. Paper, $1.75.

Sunset Western Campsite Directory
gooikS Co., Menlo Park, Calif. Pp.
1. . .

True Book of Whales and Other Sea Mammals,
The, Elsa Posell. Childrens Press. Jackson Blvd.
C1 Rocine Ave., Chicago 7. Pp. 47. $2.00.*

Valley,The, Lorus J. and Margery Milne. Harper
and Row, 49 E. 3:3 St., New YOrk 16. Pp. 178.
$4.50. ,

Which Pet for You? Robert Gannon. Williom
Frederick Press, 55 E. 86 St., New York 28.
Pp. 15. $.25.

Wild and Tame AnImaIs, Dahlov Ipcor. Doubleday,
Garden City, N.Y. Unpaged. $2.75.*

Wonders of the Woods and Desert at Night,
Jacquelyn Berrill. Dodd, Mead C1 Co., 432 Park
Ave. 5., New York 16. Pp. 78. $3.00.

Woodchucks and Their Kin, Charles L. Ripper.
William Morrow, 425 Park Ave. 5., New York
16. Pp. 64. $2.75.

Hormer. Melmont Publ.,
Racine Ave., Chicago 7.

Fire Girls. Camp Fire Girls,
New York 13. Pp. 280. Paper,

1963. Lane
1 12.- Paper,

 

*For younger readers.

JUNE, 1963

SPORTS and PHYSICAL EDUCATION

Anatomy of a Builfight, Arthur Greenfield Long
mons, Green, I" W. 40th St., New York 18.
Pp. 1 16. $4.98.

Anotomy of Golf, The, Technique {'7 Tactic, John
Stobbs. Emerscn Books, 251 W. 19th St., New
York. Pp. 158. $3.95.

Angler's Gulde to the Fresh Water Sport F1shes of
North Amer1ca, Edward C. Migdolski. Ronald
Press, 15 E. 26th St., New York. Pp. 430. $8.00.

Application of Weight Training to Athletics, Gene
Hooks. Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, N. J.
Pp. 254. $7.00.

Archery Handbook, Edmund H. Burke. Arco Publ.

480 Lexington Ave., New York 17. P . 1422'
$2.50. p

Art of Horsemanship, The, Paul Holmelund. A. S.
Barnes, 11 E. 36th St., New York 16. Pp. 159.
$4.95.

Athletics for Women, D. L. Pugh and D. C. V

Watts. Sportshelf, P.0. Box 634, New Rochelle,
N. Y. Pp. 134. $4.25.

Basic Basketball, A. T. "Slats" Gill. Ronald Press,
15 E. 26th St., New York 10. Pp. 88. $2.95.

Basketball Coach, The, John W. Bunn. Prentice-
Hall, Englewood Cliffs, N. J. Pp. 216. $5.00.

Basketball for Girls, Bertha Fronk Teogue. Ron-
glsdolsress, 15 E. 26th St., New York 10. Pp. 182.
Basketboll Methods, Pete Newell and John Ben-

ington. Ronald Press, 15 E. 26th St., New York
10. Pp. 350. $6.00.

Boss Fishlng, Ted Kesting, Editor. Thomas Nelson,
18 E. 41st St., New York 17. Pp. 192. $4.95.

Beginning Badminton, John Friedrich and Abbie
Rutledge; Bowllng, Donald Cosady and Marie
Libo; Handball, Richard Roberson and Herbert
Olson; Archery, Roy K. Niemeyer; Volleyball,
William T. Odeneo1 and Harry E. Wilson, Golf,
Ben Bruce and Evelyn Davies; Tenn1s, Peter
Everett and Virginia Dumas. Wadsworth Publ.,
Belmont, Colif. Pp. 62 each. $1.00 each.

Behind the Plate, Lowrence "Yogi" Berra ond Til
Ferdenzi. J. Lowell Pratt, 137 E. 57 St., New
York, Pp. 152. $.50.

Best of Red Smith, The. J. Lowell Pratt, 137 E.
57 St., New York 22. Pp. 184. $.50.

Cincinnati Power Basketball, Ed Jucker. Prentice-
Hall, Englewood Cliffs, N. J. Pp. 171. $5.25.

Circuit Tralning (2nd ed.) , R. E. Morgan and G. T.

Adomson. Sportshelf P.0. Box 634, New Ro-
chelle, N. Y. Pp. 94. $3.25.

Coach Yourself Series—Centre Half. Sportshelf,
P.O. Box 634, New Rochelle, N. Y. Pp. 32. Pa-
per, $1 .00.

Complete Book of Fresh Water Fishlng, P. Allen

Parsons. Harper and Row, 49 E. 33rd St., New
York 16. Pp. 332. $6.95.

Complete Book of Hunting, Clyde Ormond. Harper

Cr Row, 49 E. 33rd St., New York 16. Pp. 467.
$6.95.

Donger in Center Field, Willie Mays and Jeff
Horris. Argonout Books, Larchmont, New York.
Pp. 192. $2.95.

Esquire’s Book of F1shing, Robert Scharff Editor.
Harper 6 Row, 49 E. 33 St., New York 16.
Pp. 340. $5.95.

Exploring Physical Education, Robert J. Downey,
Elwood C. Davis, June V. McCann, and Eliza-
beth Ann 5titt. Wadsworth Publ., Belmont,
Colif. Pp. 209. $5.25.

Fencing, Hugo and James Costello. Ronold Press,
15 E. 26th St., New York 10. Pp. 116. $4.00.

Fencing (2nd ed.), Joseph Vince. Ronold Press,
15 E. 26th St., New York 10. Pp. 92. $2.95.

Fighting Southpow, The, Whitey Ford and Jack
Long.
York 3. Pp. 189. $2.95.

Fishing For Boys, Tom McNalIy. Follett Publ., 1010
W. Washington Blvd., Chicago 7. Pp. 96. $1.50.

Flag for San Franc1sco, A, Chorles Einstein. J.
Lowell Pratt 137 E. 57th St., New York 22.
Pp. 186. $.56.

Football for Boys, Tom Nugent. Ronald Press, 15
E. 26th St., New YOrk 10. Pp. 95. $3.75.

Football Techniques (rev. ed.), Jim Moore and
Tyler Micoleau. Ronold Press, 15 E. 26th St.,
New York 10. Pp. 95. $3.50.

Football Princlples and Play, David M. Nelson.
Ronald Press, 15 E. 26th St., New York 10. Pp.
462. $5.50.

Fore! (golf cartoons from the Wall Street Jour-
noll, selected by Charles Preston. E. P. Dutton,
201 Park Ave. 5., New York 3. Pp. 92. $2.95.

4-Minute Smiler, The, (Derek Ibbotson), Terry
O'Connor. Sportshelf Box 634, New Rochelle,
New York. Pp. 175. $4.50.

Four Kinds of Bowling, The, Aaron Norman. Moc-
fadden-Bortell, 205 E. 42 St., New York 17.

Pp. 157. $.50.
Golf Todoy, Doi Rees. Sportshelf, P.O. Box 634,
New Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 1 19. $4.25.

Hockey For Boys, Bill L'Heureux. Follett Publ.,
10100W. Washington Blvd., Chicago 7. Pp. 96.
$1.5 .

Horseback Riding Slm Iified (2nd ed.1 Margaret
Cabell 5eIf. Ronal Press, 15 E. 26 St., New
York 10. Pp. 85. $3.50.

Citadel Press, 222 Park Ave. S., New 

_ , . Only The Best
Lit EQUIPMENT
 Is Good. Enough

 

AMERICAN
"APPROVED—

PARK and PICNICll
P LAYG R0 U N D

AND SWIMMING
POOL EQUIPMENT

The wise cholce of experlenced
buyers for more than half a century.
Write for comprehensive literature.

AMERICAN

PLAYGROUND DEVICE co.
ANDERSON, INDIANA. U. s. A.

WORLD'S LARGEST MANUFACTURERS OF FINE

PARK. P'CNIC. PLAYGROUNO— SWIMMING
POOL AND DRESSING ROOM EQUIPMENT

c w m Ion...
a“ horn Iona-.4

First Aid For
Unexpected Rainy Days

Turn unexpected rainy days into an

' indoor entertainment treat for your group

. . . with a 16mm sound movie program.

Whether you are a regular or occasional

film rental customer. of Swank's, we will

lend you, without obligation. complete

16mm sound movie programs. Keep them

all season if you like . . . pay our nominal
rental only when you use them.

Fill in and mail the coupon below for

‘ full information on our rainy day offer.
t’.‘ -

[Tl send "Rainy Day" information
L send list of new movie releases

Name
Address
City State

SWANK Motion Pictures, Inc.

Ray Swank, Presldent
621 North Skinker. St. Louis 30, Missouri

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

    
 
  
  
    
 
  

   
   
    
 

    
     
 

293

Better Baseball, C. Paul Jackson.
. Craweél, c201 Park Ave. 5., New
York 3. P . 151. .5.
Hunting forp Bo s, am McNally. Fallett Publ.,
1010 W. Was ington Blvd., ChICOgO 7. Pp. 96.

5:150. .
1963 Official Baseball Annual. National Baseball

Con ress, Wichita, Kansas. Pp. 232. Paper,
1. 0.

Of iciol Baseball Guide for 1963, C._ C. Johnson
Spink with Paul A. Rickart and Clifford Koch-
line. C. C. Spink Cr Son, 2018 Washington Ave.,
St. Louis, Mo. Pp. 448. Paper, $1.50.

How To Plo
Thomas

SCOREBOARDS

for all sports by All-American

Schools, parks, major and minor
league stadiums, coast-to-coast score

accurately and dependably with
ALL-AMERICANscoreboards.

Models for all indoor and outdoor

sports available. Custom designs on

request. For FREE ILLUS-
TRATED CATALOG and prices at

no obligation contact:
All-American Service Desk
 :iElTIFf I general indicator
' corporation

271 MADISON AVENUE - NEW YORK 16

WPLAYGROUND

.. MUSIC TEACHER
by CARABO-CONE

Available from

RECREATION
300K (EIITEI
8We5181h Street
11v York It
at $5.

 

Endorsed by Univ. psychologists.
Develaps child's reading 8. rhythmic co-
ordination. Published by Harper 8. Row.
lectures, consultations available. For in-
troductory material plus Keyboard Read-
ing Chart send $1 to Cane, Box 356,
Scorsdale, N. Y.

 

 

Official Baseball Rules (1963 ed.). Sporting News,
2018 Washington Ave., St. Louis 66, Mo. Pp. 88.
Paper, $.50.

One for the Book for 1963, Leonard Gettelson,
Editor. C. C. Spink Cr Son, 2018 Washington
Ave., St. Louis 66. Pg. 366. Paper, $2.00.

Self-Defense Complete, a
251 W. 19th St., New York 11. Pp. 110. $3.95.

Self-Maste through Self-Taught Yoga, Harold
and Char es Werner. Greenwich Baak Publ., 489
5th Ave., New York 17. Pp. 132. $3.00.

Skiing for Beginners (Natur Tekmk Method),
Walter Foeger. Ranald Press, 15 E. 26th St.,
New York 10. Pp. 111. $3.50. _

Soccer Plays Illustrated, compiled by Bl“ Graham.
Sportshelf, P.0. Box 634, New Rochelle, N. Y.
Pp. 8. $.15.

Soccer Tactics, Bernard Joy. Sportshelf, P.O. Box
634, New Rochelle, N. Y. Pp. 1_27._ $4.50.

Speed-A-Way (rev. ed.), Marlarle S. Larsen.
Burgess Publ., 426 S. 6th St., Minneapolis 15,
Minn. Pp. 58. Paper, $1.25.

Tackle Tenpin Bowling This Way, Frank Bryan.
Sportshelf P.O. Box 634, New Rochelle, N. Y.
Pp. 123. $3.75. . _

Young Pony Rider's Companion, Genevneve Mur—

hy. Sportshelf P.0. Box 634, New Rochelle,
ii. Y. Pp. 124. $4.25.

 

    

GET THE GUS
TO VOCALIZE

WITH
NATIONAL’S DANDY

“SING-ALONG SONG SLIDES"!!

Meetings that begin 0r end with sing-alang sessions
are successful meetings! Watch your gang warm up
fast with a lusty group sing! Send tor National's
fantastic free catalog of more than 850 all-time hit
songs. available in slide form for as low as 50¢ a
tune! Need a protector? let us know . . . we'll save
you real dough! Write today to:

NATIONAL STUDIOS

 

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING

RATES: Words in regular type $.15 each

DEADLINES: Copy must be received by

Words in boldface type $.25 each the fifth at the month preceding date of
Minimum ad accepted  $3.00 the issue in which ad is desired.

COPY: Type—or clearly print—your message and the address to which you wish
replies sent. Underline any words you want to appear in boldface type.

Send copy with remittance to:

RECREATION Classified Advertising, 8 West Eighth Street, New York 11, New York.

 

LEADERSHIP

dancing, group singing, and

equipment and facilities

t Butler. Emerson Books,

TRAINING
New England Recreation
Leaders Lab. Labor Day
weekend leadership work-
shop for volunteers, profes-
sionals. Ardis Stevens,
Chester, Vermont.

HELP WANTED

Recreational Director
I or Resort. Opportunity to
prove your ability. Should
be able to direct square

conduct nature hikes. Abil-
ity to play guitar or accor-
dion would be helpful. Sea-
son June to September 10.
Apply at Diamond Lake
Resort, Diamond Lake,
Oregon.

Therapists for California
State H05pitals. Opportu-
nity to plan and conduct
individual patient recrea-
tion as well as special
group activities; modern

available. Positions open to
college graduates with ma-
jor in recreation or recrea-
tion therapy, which includ-
ed supervised field work.
No experience required.
Starting salary $463.00 per
month; promotional oppor-
tunities; liberal employee
benefits. Write State Per-

sonnel Board, 801 Capitol
Avenue, Sacramento, Cali-
fornia.

The publisher assumes no responsibility for services or items advertised here.

294

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

Teaching Springboard Diving, Anne Rass Fair-
banks. Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs,
Pp. 208. $6.00.

Teach Yourself Judo, Eric Dominy. Emersan Books, .

251 W. 19 St., New York. Pp. 200. $2.95.
Wheels of Fortune: Four Racing Stories William

Campbell Gault. E. P. Dutton, 201 Park Ave. 5., 1

New York 3. Pp. 157. $2.95.
Young Sportsman's Guide to Baseball, The, Clary

Anderson. Thos. Nelson, 18 E. 41 St., New York
17. Pp. 94. $2.50.

Young Sportsman's Guide to Bowling, The, Dick
Weber and Gordon White. Thos. Nelson, 18 E.
41 St., New York 17. Pp. 96. $2.50.

UNITED STATES: TRAVEL AND DESCRIPTION

Anchorage, Leone Hallenberg. Anchorage Press,
Box 54, Anchorage, Ky. Pp. 223. $4.00.

Arizona. Lane Book Ca., Menlo Park, Calif. Pp.
101. Paper, $1.75.

Book of Boston, The, Marjorie Drake Ross. Hast-
ings House, 151 E. 50th St., New York 22. Pp.
176. $4.50.

Bottom of the Harbor, The, Jaseph Mitchell. Lit-

tle, Brown, 64 Beacon St., Boston 6. Pp. 243.
$3.95.

Future of Alaska, George W. Rogers. Resources
for the Future, 1775 Massachusetts Ave., N.W.,
Washington 6. Pp. 31 1. $6.50.

Introduction to the United States of Amerlca, An,
Young Adult Council, 345 E. 46th St., New York
17. Pp. 76. $.50.

Notolio (Alaska), Anne Miller Downes. J. B. Lip~
pincott E. Washington Sq., Philadelphia. Pp.
285. $195.

Nevodo, Bernadine Bailey. Albert Whitman, 560
W. Lake St., Chicago 6. Unpoged. $1.25.*
New York, Meyer Berger. Random House, 457

Madison Ave., New York 22. Pp. 322. $4.95.

Oregon Signatures (poetry). Oregon State Col-
lege, Carvallis. Pp. 115. $2.50.

Pioneering on the Plains, Edith McCall. Childrens

Press, Jackson Blvd. Cr Racine Ave., Chicago 7.
Pp. 127. $2.50.*

Seottle Cityscape, Victor Steinbrueck. Univ. of
gaggingtan Press, Seattle 5. Pp. 192. Paper,

This Is New York, M. Sasek. Macmillan, 60 5th
Ave., New York 11. Pp. 60. $3.00.*

This Is San Francisco, M. Sasek. Macmillan Co.,
60 5th Ave., New York 2. Pp. 60. $3.00!”

Tour of Old Sturbridge Village, A, Samuel Cham-
berlain. Hastings House, 151 E. 50th St., New
York 22. Pp. 72. Paper, $1.00.

Vermont, Bernadine Bailey. Albert Whitman, 560
W. Lake St., Chicago 6. Unpoged. $1.25.Ill

*For younger readers.

 

MAGAZINE ARTICLES

 

ARTS AND ACTIVITIES, May 1963
Special Issue: Metolcroft.
Design Takes the Air (kites), Mamie Rogers.

Creation for Recreation (playground fantasy),
Gerald F. Brommer.

BETTER CAMPING, May-June 1963
Tents for the Ground Up, Marv Lindberg.
Alaska‘s "Great Circle Route," Bob and Wilma
Knox.
Camp the St. Lawrence Seaway, Enid Swerd-
feger Mallary.
CAMPING ILLUSTRATED, April 1963
So You Want To Be a Ranger, W. K. Merrill.
Pock Trip Fishing, Russell Tinsle .
Take Your Camera Camping, ob and Wilma
nox.
CATHOLIC CHARITIES REVIEW, April 1963
Resident Comping for the Mentally Retarded
within a Normal Comp Community, Edward
T. Reilly.
PARENTS', May 1963

Get Fit for a Trip in the Woods, Beverly J.
Plummer.

Plan for a Hazard-Proof Playground, Meredith
Mayer.

H0513) Cope with Stage Frlght, Sidney Blau,

Teens Work for Love . . . Not Money, Albert Q.
Maisel.
PTA Magazine, April 1963
Young Moderns' Marriage Dreams, Evelyn Millis
Duvall.
Teen-Agers and Alcohol, Ralph W. Daniel.

The "Organization" Child, Dale and Elizabeth
Harris.

SAFETY EDUCATION, May 1963
Eight Art Proiects for Safety, Joyce de Cicco.
SPORTS ILLUSTRATED, April 15, 1963
Cool Skiing In Sun-Baked Alaska, Roy Terrell.
The Human Fish Acqulres a Brighter, Tougher
Skin (scuba), Coles Phinizy.
, April 29, 1963
Not So Gently Down the Stream (canoe float),
Alice Higgins.
WOMAN‘S DAY, May 1963
Restorations (historical areas), Michael Frome.

Golden Opportunities for the Golden Years,
Hilda Cale Espy.

RECREATION

N.J.

I
I
l

a

 

l :2). you JCW?

it School Activities Magazine is the only national magazine deal-

ing with extracurricular activities in schools in America.

it Harry C. McKown is editor. He is the nation's foremost au-

thority on all school activities.

* School Activities is published monthly from September to May.
$4.50 for one year.

Mliguef you Wear! 

l04l New Hampshire Street, Lawrence, Kansas

Stédc‘riée jot/a”!

 

"Ill-ERIC" & BRADSY (0., IOUISVILLE, KY. Makers of Famous Louisville Slugger; Bats

When writing to our adwrtisers please mention RECREATION.

 

Filai me steel
pipe ls cleaned
of a” rust and
dirt. Then the
pipe is etched

with a phos- 
phate coating MIRACLE FLYING PONY swmc (Model Ell-AP)

- Rugged, colorful fiber glass ponies appeal to all the young
for batter pa'nt cowpokes. Loads more fun and lots more safer than a regular

 

adhesion. swing. Miracle’s exclusive “Perma Lok” process seals in candy
stripe colors on frame.

Next, a coat of
red and white
epoxy paint are

   
    
    
      
  
   
  
     

applied to pro- "‘
duce Miracle's
famous 93"!” MIRACLE JACK AND JILL MIRACLE TRAIL BLAZER SLIDE
stripe design. (Mada 11.1) (Model TB-IU)
The ideal "centerpiece" for any Attractive, all-weather fiber
W,” I "Hum" playground. Two climbers, stairway, glass slide with 16 gauge stain-
; p    u   «r ' ’ stainless steel slide and “lookout less steel bedway. Wide stair-
   ' tower"—a|l in one! Imaginative way with no-slip treads. Roomy

pre-slide platform. Tunnel adds
more appeal and prevents
stand-up sliding.

design suggests unlimited play
possibilities. Fiber glass roof adds
finishing touch.

Ritalin; ' ONLY MIRACLE “SEALS IN’

of fiber glass,

m... .,..,.. - CANDY STRIPE COLORS

impregnated
Rimiioiiniwtanpé with the exclusive
sinful: I  PERMA—LOK PROCES

finish.

 
  

pipe to seal in

AIL THIS COUPON NOWI .

MIRACLE EQUIPMENT COMPANY
GRINNELL 18, IOWA

Please send at once:

E] Additional information and price list on the complete line of
Miracle playground equipment.

[I Color brochure and price on the new Miracle Junior Obstacle
Course.

[1 Please have a Miracle representative call on me. MIRACLE DOME WHIRUModeI 304)

Colorful creation of all-weather fiber glass
easily propelled on center column of steel.
16 individual "booths" prevent overloading.
Safe to step on or off while the Miracle
Dome Whirl is in motion.

MIRACLE FLYING SAUCER (Model 3051

Junior astronauts really go for this fasci
ing new whirl. Two fiber glass domes f
the saucer with structural steel for bra:
and support. Maintenance-free fiber 3
always looks like new:

NAMF—_____—____
POSITION

ADDRESS

CITY RTATF

MIRACLE EQUIPMENT COMPAN

