iECRETI  N

IIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION 0 JANUARY 1964 ' 60c

   

NEW PATHS T0
RECREATION

x $IPZA®E \

x

\u

‘1

\ g\ !

 

    Early Planning Insures

  A Rewarding Summer Vacation

0 O. l
"1 OJ'HY- GUIDE TO SUMMER CAMPS
, AND SUMMER SCHOOLS
Clear messy, stufted torlets

Cut maintenance costs with Private resident camps, tours, unusual opportuni-

‘ ‘ ties in the arts and sciences, academic-recreational
 sessions, and programs for the handicapped and
maladjusted are informatively presented to aid

Toilet plunger 3 in the selection of an exciting summer experience.

Ordinary plungers don’t seat location and enrollment
properly. They permit com-
pressed air and water to splash _
b k. T . .
aariless’ gist 3;; 111228013113; 386:: _fees and length of camping period
pressure you need to clear the  featured activities

obstruction.

With “TOILAFLEX”, ex-

pressly designed for toilets, no
air or water can escape. The 13th ed., 320 pp., cloth $4.40, paper $2.20

full pressure plows through the
clogging mass and swishes it Order from

down. Can’t miss!
PORTER SARGENT

11 Beacon Street Boston 8, Mass.

director’s winter address

unique programs and facilities

0 Designed to flex at any angle Get_a_ "roumrx" for your home too.
. suction_rim stops splash_back Posmve Insurance against stuHed tellet.

- Centers itself, can’t skid around  65 publisher of

’“99’9"tai'give‘a"'“g"‘“t Higher“ Canada THE HANDBOOK OF PRIVATE SCHOOLS
AVAILABLE AT YOUR HARDWARE SUPPLIER

SCHOOL ACTIVITIES

The only National Extracurricular Magazine—

Faculty and students rely on School Activities Magazine to plan suc-
cessful programs, plays, clubs, athletics, debate, music, publications

and student government.

A one year subscription (regular price $4.50) and one copy of “Phog”
Allen’s SPORTS STORIES for the combined price of $5.00—w223 pages

of stories of famous athletes and coaches . . . training tips . . . illustrated
. . . cloth hound.

Author of . . . “My Basketball Bible” and “Better Basketball”.

0 NCAA Basketball Championship Coach
0 Coached and developed 15 First Team All-American players

Tutored \Vilt Chamberlain
0 Coached famous coaches . . . Adolph Rupp, Ky., Cox, Colo.

o 49 years as college athletic coach
0 Charter member of Helms Foundation Hall of Fame

SCHOOL ACTIVITIES MAGAZINE—1041 New Hampshire Street, lawrence, Kansas

— Please Print ——

Date

Name
School____________—________Position_________—

Street Address__ - 4..

City and State___ _ _ __

I enclose Money Order, check or School System Purchase Order.
4 combmed offer (one year subscription and one copy “Sports Stories”) $5 .00 postpmd.

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

PROVINCE OF ALBERTA

EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY

SUPERVISOR ATHLETIC AND
OUTDOOR EDUCATION

W§§§~§§‘“§

Recreational and Cultural DeveI0pment Branch

VISUAL RESOURCES

EDMONTON

N inety-one page spiralbound manual
written for the
Eighth Annual National Institute
in
Recreation Administration

by
Theodore R. Deppe
Janet R. MacLean

Harvey R. Frye
$2.50

National Recreation Association

8 West 8th Street. New York, N. Y. 10011

State minimum acceptable salary and date available.
Requires Master's degree in Education with major in
Physical Education, or Physical Education or Recrea-
tion degree with teaching qualifications; minimum of

five years experience in teaching and/or administra-
tive work.

Competition No. 63-6“

For details and application forms apply to the Per-

sonnel Administration Office, Room D 203, Terrace
Building, Edmonton, Alberta.

 

 

 

    
  
  

KEEP KIDS SAFE & HAPPY-HOUR AFTER HOUR
WITH A Low COST

.gsck’“ MUMPPMYGROM“

 

ESPECIALLY DESIGNED FOR

PARKS, PLAYGROUNDS Gt RECREATION AREAS

A “Buck ’n Bounce” Playground is the easiest, least expensive way to attract and entertain kids-—
for hours on end! Any combination of these delightful, colorful, Bouncy Animals, Jet-Away
 “ Swings, Roto-Tots and Circus-Go-Rounds is possible in a comparatively small area. All are rugged, ‘
i ‘ safe, self-propelled: need no attendant—no maintenance. Every piece of equipment has been H
 child-tested for extended periods and been proven to attract children for hours on end—day after
4' day. “Buck ’n Bounce” Playground equipment combines healthful activity with enduring pleasure,
which assures you of increasing attendance and the full cooperation and approval of all parents.

BUCK ’n BOUNCE PRODUCTS by Fun In The Sun of Florida, Inc.
WEST WATER STREET - ROCKLAND 4, MASS. Phone 878-2920

  
 

BOUNCE!

SWING! » I. , 
"L' 3 as“ *W

SWAY! W“    -’

JANUARY, 1964

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. l.

JANUARY 1964

 

 

VOL. lVll NO. I

 

PRICE 60c
THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT
GENERAL
“I Look Forward . . .” . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . John F. Kennedy 3
President Kennedy’s legacy of hope for a great future for America
Questions to Ask Ourselves . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Golden Romney 7

W e need a philosophy of leisure

Leisure—Its Meaning and Implications

Robert Theobald and Charles K. Brightbill 9

An. opportunity for creative, exciting, adventuresome living

NEW PATHS TO RECREATION SPACE

 

Tapping Fresh Resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Robert Crawford 12
Citizens on the Alert . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . William L. Foley 14
Zoning for Today’s Needs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Joseph E. Curtis 16
Expandng Use of Industrial Forest Land . . . . . John F. Shanhlin 18
It’s a Gift . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . 20
Recreation Harvest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Lester Fox 21
Golf Course Loan Programs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Harry C. Eclchop‘ 24
Let’s Share a Country Common . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Kenneth W. Hunt 26
PROGRAM

Widen Your Doors .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . _ . . . . Morton Thompson 27
Organization of a community recreation program for the handicapped

Figure Skating: A Lifetime Activity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mary F. Maroney 29
A glamorous and beautiful sport

Recreation Weight Training . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Robert Cook 30
Give your physicalftness program a lift -

Ski Safe! . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . I. . . Edward B. Siegel 32
Safety pointers for the novice

DIGEST h .____._____._________.__

Skiing through History. . . . . . . . _ . . . _ _ _ . . . . . . . . . . . .. Russell McKee 33

Survival equipment for primitive man develops into recreation for today

MONTHLY

 

Letters 4 As \Ve Go To Press 5 People in the Recreation News 35
Rx for the Ill and Handicapped 37 Market News 38

Resource Guide 39 New Publications 42

 

RECREATION is published monthly except July and August by the Natlonal Recreation Association.
a service organization supported by voluntary contributions, at 8 West El hth Street. New York 11.
New York. is on file in public libraries and is indexed In the Readers' Gu de. Subscriptlon $5.00 a
year. Canadian and foreign subscription rate $5.75. Re-entered as second-class matter April 25,
1950, at the Post Office in New York. New York. under Act of March 3. 1879. Acceptance for malling
at special rate of postage provlded for In Sectlon 1103. Act of October 3. 1917. authorized May 1.
1924. Mlcrofilms of current issues available from University Microfilms. 313 N. First Street. Ann
Arbor, Michigan.

  
 

   
 

DUCATIONAL The articles herein printed are

Copyrlght. 1963, by the
R E S 5 the expression of the writers and

“I.
National Recreation Association, :®;
.

S S 0 C I ATlO N not a statement of policy of the Incorporated ,' :
t a F, “‘3: National Recreation Assoclation. Printed In the u,s,A_ e..."

 

       
 
 

 

Editor in Chief
JOSEPH PRENDERGAST

Editor
DOROTHY DONALDSON

Assistant Editor
ELVIRA DELANY

Associate Editor for Program
VIRGINIA IVIUSSELMAN

Business Manager
FRANK ROWE

Advertising Manager
ESTA GLUCK

 

On the Cover

Crossroads. Winner of first place in
an Interservice Photography Con-
test, this striking photograph illus-
trates very well the urgent need for
new paths to more recreation space.
Photo taken by Sgt. Wayne E.
Clement, US. Army, Fort Mason,
California, used through courtesy

of U.S. Army.

Next Month

A Valentine bonus, in the form of
the latest of our “The Performing
Arts as Recreation” pamphlet se-
ries, will appear in February. This
is “Poetry Is Recreation.” After
appearing in the magazine, it will
be available as a separate publica-
tion for fifty cents. (See back cover
for special quantity prices). The
occurrence of Brotherhood Week,
also in February, gives rise to sev-
eral articles on international recre-
ation. Among them are “New Life
in a Leprosarium,” “Ambassador
by Letter,” and “Deep River Win-

ter Carnival.”

Photo Credits

Page 14, Syl-Ru Photo Studio,
White Plains, New York; 19, la-
ternational Paper Company, New
York City; 20, (top) Bob Burris,
Columbus, Indiana; (Alice-in-Won-
derland) Harry Collins, Brooklyn,
New York; 21-23, U.S. Soil Con-
servation Service; 24, Van Durand,
Palm Beach, \Vashington; 29, Sun
Valley News Bureau; 34', Canadian

National Railways. 

RECREATION

“I LOOK FORWARD . . 

JANUARY. 1964.

 

“ I look forward . . . ” As we face the new year that President John
Fitzgerald Kennedy did not live to see, let us resolve that his vision of “a
great future for America” shall not perish but must come to pass. In an

address at Amherst College on October 26, 1963 I F K said:

I look forward to a great future for America—a future in which our

country will match its military strength With our moral restraint, its wealth
with our wisdom, its power with our purpose.

I look forward to an America which will not be afraid of grace and
beauty, which will protect the beauty of our natural environment, which will
preserve the great old American houses and squares and parks of our national
past and which will build handsome and balanced cities for our future.

I

I look forward to an America which will reward achievement in the arts
as we reward achievement in business or statecraft.

I look forward to an America which will steadily raise the standards of
artistic accomplishment and which will steadily enlarge cultural opportu-
nities for all of our citizens. ‘

And I look forward to an America which commands respect throughout
the world not only for its strength but for its civilization as well.

And I look forward to a world which will be safe not only for democracy
and diversity but also for personal distinction. . . .

Our national strength matters; but the spirit which informs and con-
trols our strength matters just as much. #

 

LETTERS

 

Making History in Iowa

Sirs:

A rather unusual bond issue was
passed in Ames on November 5. The
voters of the"~c‘ity of Ames (munici-
pality) voted by a sixty-three percent
majority to bond themselves for $375,-
000 to build an indoor—swimming pool
on grounds owned by the Ames Com-
munity School district. The pool will be
used by both the school and community
the year round. The school will lease

 

    
 
   
  
 
 
 
  
  
   
   
      
     
   
   
 

  

COIN

A subsidiary of

AMERICAN LOCKER
CO.. INC.

r-”

 

’ UNOIBHIDEI
.——.®o—-I-

g.---. . -e...

y

  

Exclusive locker
checking by

AMERICAN LOCKER

CO.. INC.

New York Werld's Fair
1964-1965

fT.M. American Locker (30.. Inc.
l

4 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

McPherson Park Pool, Burnaby. 8.0.. one of the many municipal
pools using Coin-Lok lockers in this country and in Canada.

Please send, without obligation, complete information
and specifications of New Coin-Lok” Locks and Lockers.

Name . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

to the city the property on which the
pool will be built. The lease will be for
fifty years at a dollar per year. The
pool will be operated jointly by the city
and the school with each agency paying
its share toward operating expenses.
Since I personally am hired by the city
to direct the community recreation pro-
grams and by the schools to teach phys-
ical education and direct the high-
school athletic program, I shall be in
a good position to supervise the oper-

‘4 self-service checking

doesn’t cost...

--l p aw. A

 

Money-maker #1 -—You get
immediate cash income from
a modern coin-operated Com-
Lok locker installation.

Money-ma ker # 2 — Coin-Lek
eliminates attendant salaries,
speeds your checking servrce.

Money-maker #3 — Gives
better protection for patrons
personal property — elimi-
nates complaints and claims.

Money-maker #4—Compact
Coin-Lek lockers require less
space than manual checking.
And you convert your o'nce
wasted cheekroom area to
profitable use.

COIN-LOK SYSTEMS, INC.
DEPT. 51. 211 CONGRESS STREET
BOSTON IO. MASS.

ation of the pool from both the school’s
and the city’s standpoint.

“’e in Ames believe that we have
made real history with this bond elec-
tion. To our knowledge, this is the first
time in Iowa that a joint financing
(the school will furnish the site, park-
ing, utilities, et cetera; the city, the
pool) of such a project ever has been
attempted. Frankly, it was made neces-
sary because the school’s bonding ca-
pacity was exhausted and this seemed
to be the only solution to a real di-
lemma. \Ve are most thankful that our
city officials agreed to go along with
this plan and gave it their united sup-
port.

If other communities wish more in-
formation about our plans, of agree-
ment between the city and school. or
of any other phase of the whole en-
deavor, I shall be happy to supply it.

KENNETH WELLS, Coordinator, Play-
grouan Commission, Antes, Iowa.

And in Vancouver

Sirs:

The citizens of Vancouver [\Vashing-
ton] gave a vote of confidence to their
parks and recreation department on
November 5 by approving a new city
hall and a $480,000 recreation building.
By state law, money issues in Washing-
ton must be passed by a sixty percent
margin. A further stipulation for special
bond issues requires that there be forty
percent of the registered voters that
voted in the prior general election.

The biggest single factor in the pas-
sage of both issues was the use of a
civic committee to inform Vancouver’s
interested citizens. This committee was
a voluntary committee made up of near-
ly 150 influential citizens in industry,
labor, business, and professional fields,
and was headed by various city coun-
cilmen.

The bond issue was presented to the
people through several media: the usual
newspaper publications, architectural
models, a speakers bureau, radio spots.
The most widely used and far reaching
was the development of a seventeen-
minute slide and film presentation
which was offered to all civic and in-
terested groups in the community, start-
ing six weeks prior to the bond election.

Needless to say, we are proud of our
immediate accomplishment, but realize
that it is only the beginning in regard
to the development of a balanced park
and recreation department. We are in:
tercsted in sharing our experiences in
this successful bond issue and would be
happy to supply further information if

asked.

LARRY NEAL, Acting Director. Parks
and Recreation, Department, Van-
couver, Washington.

RECREATION

AS WE GO TO PRESS

 

) A NEW BOOKLET advocating conven-
ient parks for New York City pedestri-
ans in congested areas of the city has
just been published by the Park Asso-
ciation of New York City. It suggests
that parking lots and similar small
spaces be replaced with “sitting parks,”
saying, “People need convenient places
to park ust as much as cars do. As for
the three-acre minimum park size policy,
we hope and trust this outlook will soon
change. We already have many success-
ful small parks of a fraction of that size
in New York.” The pamphlet refers to
such a park as an “Outdoor Room.”
C0pies of this attractive and profusely
illustrated pamphlet are available from

the Park Association, 15 Gramercy
Park, New York 10003.

) ONE or THE BACKLASHES following
the tragic assassination of President
John F. Kennedy is the emotional con-
demnation of all firearms. Honest gun
owners and teachers of gun safety are
being challenged everywhere. National
Recreation Association headquarters
has received communications voicing
serious concern from the National Rifle
Association of America and from Olin
Mathieson Chemical Corporation, man-
ufacturers of Winchester arms.

The latter quoted at length, Richard
Starnes, columnist in the New York
W odd-Telegram and Sun. He says, in
part, “Predictably and unfortunately,
the anti-gun lunatics are seizing upon
the assassination of President John F.
Kennedy as a simple excuse to propa-
gate their peculiar bigotry. A firearm
was the weapon that took the life of the
nation’s chief magistrate; ergo, all fire-
arms are inherently wicked and should
be denied to all Americans. The fact
is, of course, that no gun law has ever
been devised that could keep weapons
out of the hands of individuals with
criminal intent. New York’s Sullivan
Law is the most apt case in point, for
there is not one shred of evidence that
it prevented anyone from obtaining a
weapon for illegal aims.

“It is nonsense to suppose that the
madman with murder on his mind is
going to be dissuaded from his foul
deed by the momentary inconvenience
attending the purchase of a suitable
weapon. Texas law prohibits murder,
just as Dallas law prohibits discharging
a firearm within the corporate limits,

and neither injunction saved Mr.
Kennedy.”

) A RESOURCE BOOK, Social Welfare 0p-
pormnities for Peace Corps Returnees,
has been prepared by the National So-
cial Welfare Assembly Committee on
Personnel for use in Peace Corps offices

JANUARY, 1964-

throughout the world. Copies have been
sent to ofiices of Peace Corps represen-
tatives and to other centers where they
are available for the use of Corps volun-
teers in deciding about careers. The
book gives information about agency
programs, employment opportunities,
and salary ranges for the national gov-
ernmental and voluntary agencies affili-

ated with the Assembly and wishing to
be included.

) THREE NEW Peace Corps projects
offer professional opportunities to phys-
ical educators, recreators, and coaches.
“Men and women with training or ex-
perience in physical education, recre-
ation or coaching now have the oppor-
tunity to assume highly responsible
positions in their professional field in
one of three Peace Corps projects that
will commence training in February,”
says Robert L. Gale, Peace Corps direc-
tor of recruiting. “These volunteers
would have the unique opportunity to
fully utilize their professional back-
grounds and to feel the satisfaction that
comes from using their skills to help
less fortunate people,” Mr. Gale de-
clares. There are three projects——in
Malaya, Jamaica, and Venezuela—that
require volunteers with these profes-
sional skills. Volunteers for the three
projects will enter training at different
institutions in February. Volunteers for
the three coaching, recreation, and
physical-education projects must sub-
mit Peace Corps Volunteer Question-
naires (applications) prior to January
25. Questionnaires can be obtained
from any post office or by writing
Robert L. Gale, Division of Recruiting,
Peace Corps, Washington, DC. 20525.

THINGS YOU SHOULD KNOW

) THE NEW Ralph Van Fleet Scholar-
ship Loan Fund, established in honor
of the National Recreation Association’s
Southern District representative who
retired in October, is administered by
the NRA. The sum of $35,000 has been
allocated from Southeastern Division
Conference funds, $1,000 for each of
the division’s component states: Ala-
bama, Florida, Georgia, Mississippi,
and South Carolina. This will constitute
a revolving fund from which loans will
be made to residents of or students in
colleges and universities within the
Southeastern Division, who are pre-
paring for recreation leadership and
who are in financial need. The loans will
be repayable within a reasonable time
as determined by each state committee.
Write to the NRA, 8 West Eighth Street,

New York 10011, for the leaflet on the
subject.

 

) Recruiting for social and public wel-
fare workers is the concern of U5.
Commissioner of Welfare Ellen Win-
ston. She noted that recent legislation
aimed at rehabilitating families and
individuals receiving public assistance
will require personnel with professional
training to deal with such complex
social problems as deserting fathers,
neglected children, and the needs of the
elderly to remain independent. The
same legislation, she pointed out, will
call for unprecedented expansion in the
next twelve years in child welfare serv-
ices, including protective services, foster
care, adoption, homemaker service, and
day care. She added that “here too the

shortage of skilled social workers is
alarming.”

} MARCH is Children’s Art Month and
1964 marks its fourth observance. For
sets of Children’s Art Month material,
free to art teachers, write to the Crayon
Water Color 8: Craft Institute, 420 Lex-
ington Avenue, New York 10017, and

enclose a large self-addressed stamped
envelope.

} WHERE can a city child go today for
a walk in the country? Where can he
cross a brook on stones, be close to
wildflowers and trees, hear birds sing-
ing, find animal homes, search at a pond
for frogs and crayfish, see fish jump,
listen to the sound of a running stream,
watch a spider spin, smell and taste
wild mint? Children too often tend to
associate their daily needs with shop-
ping areas and supermarkets rather
than with the land. This is unfortunate,
for these children will soon be the care-
takers as well as the consumers of our
nation’s natural resources. However,
there is currently so much interest in
nature centers that the National Audu-
bon Society now has a Nature Centers
Division with an experienced staff well
versed in ways to start a nature center.
The division operates as an advisory
service to interested communities to set
up and maintain a nature center. For
information. write to Nature Centers
Division. National Audubon Society,
1130 Fifth Avenue, New York 10028.

) A TWO-YEAR-OLD RACEHORSE, son of
the gallant Sword Dancer, is the first
prize in an annual Kentucky Club
Derby 'Day Contest now under way.
The handsome bay colt will go to the
person who comes up with a winning
name for him between now and April 6.
The contest colt, plus $1,000, plus two
finish-line seats at the Kentucky Derby,
plus hotel rooms in Louisville (a prize

itself). plus all training expenses until
July 1. 1964 go to the winner. Contest

5

rules are simple. Any number of name
entries may be submitted. For complete
information write to 10th Annual Ken-
tucky Club Day Contest, care of Ted
Warner Associates, 509 Madison Ave-
nue, New York 10022.

) THE FIRST ANNUAL Ethel H. Wise
Award of $1,000 for outstanding
achievement in the field of social work
has been announced by the Columbia

University School of Social Work. This
will be presented in April 1964 at the
Annual Alumni Conference. All nomi-

nations should be mailed before Febru-
ary 1, 1964, to Fred DelliQuadri, Dean,
Columbia University School of Social
Work, 2 East 91st Street, New York
10028. Write for leaflet.

> A NATIONWIDE ART TALENT contest

for high-school seniors will be spon-
sored during the 1963-64 school year
by the General Federation of Women’s

Check Your Calendar

January 19-26 YMCA Week
February 7-13 Boy Scout Week
12 Abraham Lin-

coln’s Birthday
16-23 Brotherhood
Week
22 George Washing-
ton’s Birthday
March 8-14 Girl Scout Week
8-15 Jewish Youth
Week
22-28 Camp Fire Girls
Birthday Week
April 1-30 USO Month
5-11 National Boys’
Club Week
14 Pan-American
Day
19-26 YWCA Week
26 Audubon’s
Birthday
26-May 2 Mental Health
Week
May 1-31 Senior Citizen’s
Month
3-10 Family Week
10 Mother’s Day
3-10 Girls Club Week
16-22 Armed Forces
Week
30 Memorial Day
June 1-30 National

Recreation Month
14 Flag Day
21 Father’s Day

28-July 4 National Safe
Boating Week

July 4 Independence Day

 

Clubs and Hallmark Cards. This is the

11th year for the contest. The competi-
tion will be opened to all high-school
seniors graduating in 1964 from public,
parochial, and private schools. The
Hallmark awards have been increased
from last year when three $600 scholar-
ships were given. Most state winners
also will receive awards from the state
federations of women’s clubs. Entries
should be submitted through local af-
filiated women’s clubs by April 1, 1964.
The contest theme, “To Strengthen the
Arm of Liberty,” may be interpreted in
oils, water colors, pastels, or mixed
media. The contest has the approval of
the National Association of Secondary
School Principals. A jury in each state
will select a winning painting which will
be submitted in the national competi-
tion. As it has since 1953, the first year
of the program, Hallmark Cards will
provide scholarships for advanced art
study to the three national winners.
Students whose works are selected for
first, second, and third place will receive
$1,000, $750, and $600 scholarships
from the Kansas City, Missouri, greet-
ing-card firm.

) A SERIES of educational materials on
community nature centers—circulars,
reprints, and bulletins—mare available
from the National Audubon Society,
1130 Fifth Avenue. New York 10028,
for ten cents each. Write to the Nature
Centers Division for its checklist. Also
available, a motion picture, A Green
Island of Nature, which is a brief story
of why there is a need for nature and
conservation centers and how they serve
the community. This 16MM, sound,
color film runs fifteen minutes and is
narrated by Robert Montgomery. It is
not intended as a “children’s film” but
for stimulating community or group
interest in establishing nature and con-
servation centers on local level. Availa-
ble on free loan to organized groups.
Two or more weeks notice in advance
requested; also specify alternate dates.

) AN ATLAS or WATER FACTS. For the
first time, the full story of our nation’s
water resources is available in map
form in a single authoritative reference
book. Water Atlas of the United States,
prepared by the Water Information
Center, Inc., publishers of Water N ews-
letter, is a comprehensive visual guide
to the source, availability, quality, and
use of water in the United States. This
can be purchased at the special first
edition price of $6.95 each, plus mail-
ing charges. Orders should be sent to
Water Information Center, Inc., 60 East

4-2nd Street, New York 10017.

b A STANDARD for determining the
allowable weight capacities for all rec-
reation craft under twenty-six feet in
length is now completed and ready for

distribution to all segments of the boat-
ing industry. John G. Kingdon, secre-
tary of the American Boat and Yacht

Council, says the standards, drawn up
by an ABYC technical committee at the
request of the United States Coast
Guard, are being reviewed by the coun-
cil’s publications and coordinating com-
mittees. They were announced at the
National Conference of State Boating
Administrators of the Council of State

Governments in Oklahoma City on No-

vember 19 by Mr. Kingdon and Com-
mander Robert I. Price, US. Coast
Guard. The American Boat and Yacht

Council, which represents all interests
of the boating public and industry, has
as its objective the development of an
advisory code of safety standards and
recommended practices in the construc-
tion of recreation craft. The council has
been working on the problem of devel-
oping more correct capacity criteria for
the past two years.

COMING EVENTS

37th Annual NAA Winter Indoor
League Tournament, February 7-March
22. For information write Ethel B.
Holmes, National Archery Association, 23
East Jackson Boulevard, Chicago 4.

13th Annual Meeting, National Coun-
cil on the Aging, February 15-20, Edge-
water Beach Hotel, Chicago. For further
information, write to Nicholas R. Wreden,

Director of Information, The Council on
Aging, 49 West 45th Street, New York.

16th Annual California and Pacific
Southwest Recreation and Park Con-
ference, February 23-26, Disneyland Ho-
tel, Anaheim, California. For further in-

formation, write to National Recreation
Association, Charles J. Reitz, Room 1009,

606 South Hill Street, Los Angeles, Cali-

fornia.

Annual Conference of the National
Association of Recreational Thera-
pists, March 16-20, Lord Baltimore Hotel,
Baltimore. For further information, write
to B. L. Smith, Executive Secretary, State
Psychopathic Hospital, 500 Newton Road,
Iowa City, Iowa.

9th Annual Southeastern Park and
Recreation Training Institute, March
17-20, North Carolina State College, Ra-
leigh, North Carolina. For further infor-
mation, write to Charles C. Stott, Depart-
ment of Recreation and Park Administra-
tion, School of Education, Raleigh, North
Carolina State College, North Carolina.

Kentucky Recreation WorkshoP,
March 21 -27, Kentucky Dam Village State
Park. For further information, write to
James Pheane Ross, 4-H Club Department,
Experiment Station, University of Ken-
tucky, Lexington.

American Personnel and Guidance As-
sociation Convention, March 22-26, San
Francisco. For further information, write
to American Personnel and Guidance As-
sociation, Stephen B. Friedheim, Adver-
tising Manager, 1605 New Hampshire Ave-
nue, N.W., Washington 9, D. C.

M

RECREATION

 

  

 

Golden Romney

As AMERICANS, we are living in a country whose wealth
-- and bounties are almost unlimited. Such prosperity in
terms of wordly goods has never been equaled in history
by any other people. Our hours of labor are reaching a
vanishing point. According to a recent study, in 1850 the
workweek in industry was 65.7 hours with a workweek of
73.2 hours on the average for everyone. Now it has drOpped
to below forty hours and in some phases of industry, has now
decreased to a low of twenty-four hours. Many years ago,
Charles Steinmetz of General Electric fame suggested that
man would soon see a time that he could do his work in ap-
proximately twelve-hundred hours per year. Others are sug-
gesting the possibility of the four-hour day. We are in the
age of automation and man no longer will need to tend the
machine, for one machine now can take over the supervision
of another.

This tremendous change in the labor requirement of the
average American, along with his increased prosperity, has
thrown him into a dilemma. He has not been able to get
himself into perspective, and thus there is much unhappiness
in the land. We have been geared to a work philosophy and
when our time was consumed through laborious tasks, little
was left to do other than our normal biological functions—
eating and sleeping. One would think that we would have
learned our lesson during the depression when again we
were caught with time on our hands. This, however, was
involuntary leisure. and little constructive thinking or activ-
ity took place. During that period, leadership did attempt to
innovate plans that were constructive, but, in most cases,
they failed because the American public had never developed
a philosophy in the wise use of leisure.

Herein lies the great responsibility and opportunity for
leadership. If this leadership can help man to find himself
spiritually through his leisure time, it will save him. Ac-
tivity during our free hours is not enough. We must find for
ourselves the satisfactions that will bring a spiritual growth.

DR. ROMNEY, dean of the College of Physical Education and
Recreation at Washington State University in Pullman, died
suddenly last August before this article could be published.

JANUARY, 1964

EDITORIAL

QUESTIONS TO ASK OURSELVES

A plea for emphasis on spiritual growth

If man misses this opportunity, it may not return again.
Arnold Toynbee, in .his ninth volume of a Study of History,
states clearly the relationship between the futureof spiritual
freedom and the conduct of Western man in an age of
leisure: “In the twentieth-century economy, the vindica-
tion of spiritual freedom became the generations most
urgent business, and the arena in which this Spiritual battle
would be lost or won would be a field of leisure that in a fully
mechanized world might come to be all but coexistent with
the field of life itself.”

It is inherent in man to desire this “something” unless he
He seeks out for himself an answer to'this
problem of spirituality which can be akin to a love of God
and a keeper of the great commandment, “Love thy neighbor
as thyself.” Our leadership then must realize that the true
purpose of activity is to serve as a vehicle whereupon we
ride to these greater things, these greater destinations. Just
to teach badminton for the sake of developing skill is not
enough. We must teach badminton in order that man may
make friendships and spend time with other personalities as
well as heighten his own ego through improved skills. How-
ever, within this great field of activity that goes to fill up our
time, there lies a plateau seldom reached by many.

is abnormal.

PRIMITIVE ‘MAN found his answers through the dance
and other initiatory rites. He satisfied himself in his
relationship with his Creator through the dance and other
forms of pageantry. He developed his Spiritual atmosphere
through his arts and crafts because in them he gave expres-
sion to his deeper emotions. It was not just ornamentation
but a deep spiritual experience. These experiences affected
his way of life and his relationships with others. While we
cannot experience them to the same extent, modern civilized
man can find satisfactions which have a kinship with those
of his primitive brother.

If man cannot find these, frustration results; crime, sui—
cide, and mental illness result. Recently I read some of the
suicide statistics of the United States, and, if I remember
correctly, they ran to about 26 per 100,000 in some of the

7

large cities of this nation, while in the rural South they ran
as low as 2.6. This means that the monotony and frustra-
tions of the large cities are causing man to lose his sense of
balance. He needs an out, and this out can come through the
proper use of his leisure. I observed in New York City a
very much-used church on F orty-Ninth Street. I stopped a
number of times to see what was going on. I found in there
a very lovely interior with comfortable pews, candles giving
a minimum of light, and beautiful music in soft tones. There
it little wonder that man sought out this refuge. No sermons
were being made, but it was a place to which one could re-
treat and remove himself from the hustle and bustle of a
great city. I found the same thing true in Central Park.

W HAT have you done as a director to provide solitude for
your people where they might gain spiritual repose
during their leisure? Norman Cousins in the Saturday Re-
view refers to this plateau which is within the reach of man
but which is rarely found when he says: “F or leisure does
not carry with it automatically the birth and growth of
purpose. It does not, itself, make visible new horizons or
lead to adventures in the fulfillment of an individual’s po-
tential. . . . What is actually required is the making of a
new man—someone who has confidence in the limitless pos-
sibilities of,his own.- development, someone who is not in-
timidated by the prospect of an open hour, someone .who is
aware that science may be able to make an easier world but
only man can make a better one.”

When the Creator laid the plans for man’s existence here
on earth, He planned for him a long period of childhood.
Perhaps one of the most detrimental things that is being
done to our children is the forcing of adult activities upon
them. They no longer have the opportunity to grow up en-
joying normal child activities with freedom and abandon.
They now must be organized into groups to go through
experiences that should be reserved for adults. For ex-
ample, in my own community, there are no longer groups of
children going to a playheld and organizing themselves into
teams by choosing up and playing a game of baseball. Now
they are organized into teams, equipped with uniforms, and
applauded or scorned by large numbers of adults. It has
become a semi-commercial venture. With this adult spon-
sorship and adulation has come, in many instances, the
development of a false ego, of false values among these
children.

In some sections of our society, children are attending
parties and dances before they get out of the grade school.
Some even are formal affairs, with dates and formal dress
and all the accessories that go with it. As recreation leaders
we need to support a move to have our children grow to
maturity before they begin dating. Children of this age are
going through a period of great conflict. They are develop-
ing heterosexual interests, have a desire for some freedom
from immediate supervision of parents, and want the op-
portunity to make some decisions for themselves. It is here
that we need to provide great leadership in helping them to
have experiences geared to their age level and experiences
which lead toward the fullness of a good life. We need to
have inspired leaders working with them, counselling them,

8

and laboring with them so that they can see the merit in
developing recreational skills which will have value in their
adult lives. ( See also “Let’s De-Sophisticate,” by Joseph
Curtis, RECREATION, September 1959.)

HOW LONG will it take America to see the value of the long
period of infancy and fully utilize this period from
birth to twenty-two years to provide rich and wholesome
experiences that will provide a foundation upon which to
build successful and happy adult'lives? This is a period of
preparation, and our programs should help provide it. We
need to set the stage through offering the experience in rec-
reation that will build a stronger youth. This is truly the
great problem in America. Alexis de Tocqueville once said,
“America is great because America is good. Once she
ceases to be good she will cease to be great.”

We need to ask ourselves some of the following questions:
What have I done, or what am I doing, for children going
into the age of puberty to help them make this great adjust~
ment? Is there a better means of providing experiences for
them that will lift their sights and give them the desire to
become better citizens, better people? Can we instill in them
the desire to accept only the experiences that match their
maturation? Can we in some Way encourage them to utilize
their intelligence more and their emotions less?

.Our profession of recreation contributes powerfully to
basic human needs, in the spiritual aspects, as well as the
physical and mental. It is a part of a program which, if
launched properly, will help lead the individual into a bal-
anced life. It is not the complete answer to successful living,
but it takes its place along with education, religion, work,
and other phases of human welfare, as part of a program
sought after by every individual who is desirous of a satisfy-
ing existence. Leadership is the leavening which makes this
possible.

We must have leaders who understand youth and their
problems which are many—leaders who recognize that each
person is different, and yet, that each has some outstanding
characteristics and attitudes which should be cultivated in
order to bring him to his full fruition. We need to bring
back the “little chair beside the blacksmith” so that children
can be close to an adult and have someone to help to carry
the load when it becomes too heavy. Yes, we need to dedi-
cate ourselves to the development of a better and finer
America through dedication to our people, realizing that
recreation is not a destination but a journey, a journey that
can be most pleasant and profitable. #

We PRESS feverishly to conquer “outer space” while
we leave unattended vast social areas of uncon-
quered inner space. Too little thought and analysis have
been directed toward assurance that individuals, par-
ticularly youth, are provided the opportunities and

nourishment required for inner balance and security
in a dynamically industrialized technological age.—
JAMES R. DUMPSON, New York City Commissioner of
Welfare in Children, November-December 1963.

 

RECREATION

LEISURE . . . ITS MEANING AND

Following are digests of two papers given by panel-
ists at the day-in-depth session on leisure of the 45th
National Recreation Congress, following the showing
of the film Of Time, Work and Leisure, based on the
book by Sebastian de Grazia, published by the Twen-
tieth Century Fund.

ROBERT THEOBALD, Consulting Economist, New
York City, author of Free Men and Free Markets.

WE HAVE ONLY just found out that
a consumption-and-work-oriented
system must necessarily enslave man,
and it is only now that we are beginning

closing on us. In looking for ways out,
we can’t go back to the 19th century,
the 18th century, or to the Greeks. We
must live within this technological society, whether we wish

 

to do so or not, or we will not live at all. Today, many
people agree that automated machinery and computers are
sweeping us from the industrial era into the cybernation era,
and that we have no choice but to adapt to this new era.
* These people now agree that while the industrial revolu-
tion required the combination of machine power with human

 

skill, the new revolution requires the combination of ma-
chine power with machine skills. In a post-industrial system
of effectively unlimited productive capacity and unparalleled
complexity, our problem is therefore completely changed.
L We have to find a way for man to live in a period when
l there will not be enough conventional jobs to go around,
and where there will be no need to limit consumption be-
cause of inability to produce——although there may be other
reasons for limiting production.

We know very little about the operating requirements of
our novel society, because few people have ever begun to
discuss them. A few that I believe are essential, are, first,
to recognize that the problem in our age is not the free
movement of goods or the production of goods. The prob-
lem is the movement of information so that we are provided
with the facts we need to know in order to make correct
decisions. The second is that, if our society is to survive, we
need to give everybody the maximum education. This is
essential for the efficient operating of our system. It is also
essential if we are ever to evolve into what Sebastian de
Grazia would call a leisure society. Third, we must find a
way to value excellence in all its forms. It is time we stopped
saying that if you can do one thing well, you are valuable
to society, and if you can do another thing well, you are

JANUARY, 1964

to look for ways out of the trap rapidly '

IMPLICATIONS

just a nuisance. We have to learn to accept diversity—
diversity in time patterns, diversity in space patterns, di-
versity in whether people wish to be involved in the tech-
nological age or prefer to live in families. Finally, and,
perhaps as difiicult as any of these, we have to lind ways—~—
new ways—wto distribute wealth.

Our system works on the assumption that everybody can
have a job, and therefore everybody can have an income.
Today this is no longer possible. We must come up with a
new solution to a new problem. These arguments are based
on hard-headed predictions by people in this field, who are
saying that we will need only half of the present labor force
in ten years’ time.

HOW MANY OF US have thought about what this means or
are ready to do anything about it? This faces us with
two urgent short-run problems. De Grazia is quite right.
We have the ability to be the modern Greeks, and machines
can take the place of slaves, but unfortunately many of our
population, to put it brutally, have been brought up in such
a way that they are totally incapable of benefiting from
this Opportunity.

What are we going to do about it? Society crippled these
people in order to make them good producers; now, as their
productive efforts are no longer required, society must not
only provide them with adequate incomes, but also find ways
to give them meaningful activities.

One necessity, of course, is meaningful recreation—"but
we cannot insist that it meet middle-class norms. When I
listen to people who say that TV is terrible, «I think that
they ust don’t understand that although many things about
TV are terrible, that many things are very good. If we
brought up everybody to appreciate Picasso and Brahms
and Stravinsky, perhaps we could afford to put on only
highbrow TV programs—wbut we didn’t. TV is a very good
thing within the present world. The same argument also
applies to the people who dislike spectator sports.

WE ARE going to have to create new crosses between
work and leisure. The 19th century concept of a man’s
life as a mere division between toil and respite from toil
must disappear, along with the production-oriented factory
organization which gave rise to such a curiously twisted
version of the relationship between an individual and his
society, but rather the full use of an individual’s potential
of the material benefit of his fellows and his own self-fulfill-
ment. In the same way, leisure will no longer simply be
time not spent in toiling, but rather the full use of an in-
dividual’s potential for the psychical benefit of his fellows

and his own recreation. H

9

We can anticipate the organization of what I call con-
sentives—wproductive groups formed by individuals who will
come together on a voluntary basis simply because they
want to do so.

We have still another crisis on our hands: The people
most capable of using leisure are not going to have any
for the rest of the century. For the first time we have a
society turned on its head—a society in which the educated
will work harder than the people with less education. It is
diflicult to imagine a culture, a set of values, which are
going to make sense of this new situation.

ODAY we are allowing the machine to dominate. It is
T possible to argue with disconcerting rigor that we pay
more attention to the rights of the machines than the rights
of man. We provide machines with better conditions than
we do for the human being. When man is no longer needed
by the productive system, he is simply thrown out of the
system.

The coming of cybernation provides us with two choices:
either we allow ourselves to be dominated by a system which
exists to serve thennachine or we decide that the ideals of
human rights which we possess are going to be turned into
realities.

I For a discussion of cybernetics and the implications of
automation see “What Is Cybernetics?” and “Our New
Automated World,” Recreation, November l963.—Ed.

CHARLES K. BRIGHTBILL, head of the Depart-

ment of Recreation and Municipal Park Administra-

tion at the University of Illinois, Urbana.

PERHAPS because everyone thinks of
himself as king of his own leisure
domain—wand that is the way it should
be—-—-—everyone has a different concept of
leisure. Plato said that the three most
worthwhile things in life, . justice,
beauty and truth, could not be defined.
Perhaps the same is true of leisure.

I think I understand those who see leisure as being free

 

from the demands of work, as a status symbol, as an instru-
ment for social control, as a spiritual, aesthetic, or cultural
condition, or a state of calm, quiet, contemplative dignity.
l certainly see its relationship to “attitude of mind,” al-
though onc’s attitude is linked mainly with time—time be-
yond that required, organically, for existence and subsist-
ence; discretionary time when the feeling of compulsion
should he (I do not say isl minimal.

I see leisure as an opportunity; and there can be no
choice, no judgment, no attitude and, hence, no freedom,
without opportunity! Nor can there be opportunity without
time, which, to me, is the overriding component of leisure.
In this light, “attitude” has as much to do with what a man
considers and how he goes about his work quite as much
as what he deems worthwhile in his leisure. As Harold
Wilensky says, “A man’s work routine places a heavy hand

10

on his leisure routine. Attitudes in one spill over into the
other. Killing time at work can become killing time in lei-

suref’
i agree with much of what Sebastian de Grazia claims:

that we could do a better job of controlling our lives, that
our man-made materialism blocks the way to full, harmoni-
ous existence, and that too often we overlook the virtues of
solitude and tranquility. Yet, has de Grazia’s case been
overstated? Has he, like the Scotsman, carried rocks to the
pinnacle of the hill to raise its elevation? Are we to believe
that leisure can be a substitute for work? Does everybody
work only for money? Is it a fact that Americans have no
leisure? Is the leisure which many people have the kind
they do not want? The kind grandpa gets when the com-
pany makes him retire before he is ready, or the kind a
fellow gets when he is displaced by a machine? Is it free
time and leisure which men seek, or purpose, meaning, and

fulfillment?

ANY Americans have a great deal of discretionary tlme,
M and millions more will have enforced leisure on their
hands whether they want it or not, as we move into a leisure-
conscious and probably a leisure-centered society. We have
168,000 fewer auto workers than we had ten years ago,
200,000 fewer steel workers than six years ago; 500,000
less miners than eighteen years ago and 670,000 fewer
railroad workers than in 1947. Automation will eliminate
twenty-four million jobs in this decade. Secretary of Labor
Willard Wirtz is rightfully worried because we are running
out of use for people but at the same time producing more
people. How do you abolish the job without abolishing the
man? The enforced leisure outlook, of course, assumes that
we are not going to blast ourselves from the earth or tear
each other up because we cannot face the inevitable adjust-
ment of a changing world. Many people will have large
blocks of off-the-job time and will be ill prepared to use it
for their own well being.

if we must take our cues from the old, let’s listen to
Aristotle who warned that, “A society unprepared for leisure
will degenerate in prosperous times.” Let’s concern our-
selves with leisure as an opportunity. The ancients were
apprehensive about the misuse of leisure and called it acedia
or spiritual torpor, a deadly sin. Incidentally, many of them
worked hard, designing and building their temples. creating
their art, developing their physical prowess, and being in
public service! Not everyone lingered in the agora to ponder
the glories of Golden Athens.

ECHNOLOGY and affluence have given us the opportunity,
T beyond toil, to discover ourseh es. They have also given
us materialism, functionalism, competition, and conformity,
each with some good, but also with some bad. With all of
our abundance, and, often among too many of us, with the
gross misuse of leisure, we have bred boredom. alcoholism,
mental disorders, divorce, delinquency, and suicide. It would
be interesting to know just how many people today seek
life’s meaning in the split-level house, the eye-level oven.
and the income-lave] country club. I am not so bereft of
common sense to believe that the wise use of leisure, uni-
iersally, would smother all of these maladies, but I do want

RECREATION

to turn spotlight on the core of the matter—how we can
help people acquire the values, the desire, the skills, and
the opportunities to use their free time in ways which will
contribute to their own full personality development, their
inner satisfaction and stability, either with or without the
organized resources of society. The apogee of leisure is
reached when personal satisfaction is achieved. If it is
mostly through suffering, through hardship and trial and
tribulation that we conquer and advance, how then do we
“make the easy life” contribute to our self-fulfillment? To
our growth as individuals and as a 'nation?

THE ENDLESS, repeating cycle of past civilizations has
been well expressed in the “seven stages of man.” They
are that man moves from bondage to faith, from faith to
courage, from courage to freedom, from freedom to abun-
dance, from abundance to selfishness, from selfishness to
apathy, and then down again from apathy to bondage. Can
we be the first to reverse this trend? If we are to be thrust
into an existence in which the absorbing attractions of work,
as we have known them in the past, are removed, how shall
we answer John Steinbeck who said that he had four im—
pressions of the American people gained in the last few
years? First, a creeping, all-pervading immorality; second,
a yearning for something unknown; third, the violence,
cruelty and hypocricies symtomatic of a people which has
too much; and fourth, the surly, ill-temper that afflicts
human beings when they are frightened? Can we expect to
find the solutions in a leisure-centered society for Arnold
Toynbee who indicated not one but a number of the West—
ern democracies when he said, “Advanced societies tend to
substitute license for liberty, irresponsibilty for obligation,
comfort for challenge, and self-interest for brotherhood”?
I say that the affluent society is, and will be, increasingly
faced with the problem of how to prevent its people from
colliding with themselves. If it were only a matter of teach-
ing people hobbies, the solution would be easy. But we shall
need a new kind of man, or at least men with different values.
It will have to be an individual who values something more
than power, money, and material possessions. He will have
to see leisure as an. opportunity. He will need to be chal-

lenged rather than bored or defeated by the open hour. Will
it not have to be the kind of person who will choose self-
development over self-centeredness?

WHATEVER the attractions of leisure, it is not a substitute
for work. George Bernard Shaw was right when he
said, “A perpetual holiday is a good working definition of
hell.” Work for a large number of pe0ple, particularly the
talented, and those blessed with expressive and creative
minds, has its own built-in incentives. Work carries with it
the feelings of purposefulness and usefulness which are in-
dispensable to self-respect. Yet industry can also be just
another word for conscience, particularly in a culture en-
raptured of materialism. Under such circumstances, it is too
easy to be drawn away from life’s humanistic attractions.
Creative growth depends upon the maintenance of the
work-leisure cycle. It is never completed through leisure
alone, but it is impossible without it. But, as Dr. Alexander
Reid Martin said, “We may be coming to a time when the
merit of leisure and the respite of work are not things earned
by hard work. Perhaps like God’s grace extended to us a
mercy undeserved, that abundant to our needs, the coming
beneficent society will bestow on man, because he is a man,
abundance in material things and free time.”

Have all of us, the young and the old, already fallen into
lhe trap of thinking that being amused, being entertained,
and being comfortable are preferable to physical and intel-
lectual development? To creative and cultural development?

To self-fulfillment? -.’

A?

When we think of leisure, and the recreative use of it,
we ought to reflect upon the real meaning of the latter,

living creatively over and over again, rather than the shal-

lower interpretations of it—amusement, frivolity, restless-
ness, and aimlessness.

We should think of leisure as an opportunity for learning,
as a possible cultivator of tastes and interests and skills and
values, as a potential influence for good upon our behavior,
as a means of helping to give us balance in a world which
is out of balance, as a softener of the blows which reveal
our imperfection, as an opportunity for creative, exciting,
adventuresome, and full living. #

 

ONE WHO READS a newspaper or magazine today cannot escape the fact that by 1975 this
“little old” world of ours will be crawling with people. United Nations statisticians inform us
that even today thirty-four babies are born for every eighteen people that die. Keeping these
figures in mind, it may be well to remember that when the thirteen colonies became one, there
were six hundred acres for every man, woman and child. Today, we are down to thirteen and
a half acres. In twenty-five years there will be only eight. (In Connecticut today, it is one
acre per person.) Whatever we do today takes more space than it used to. The thirty-five-
foot building lot in town has been replaced by the hundred-foot lot in the suburbs. Our new
highways will absorb a million and a half acres. The new transcontinental jet airliners require
ten thousand feet of runway, while the old Ford trimotor monoplane got aloft after a run of a
thousand feet. We often read that our land is being developed at the rate of three thousand
acres a day and most of that is being done in our metropolitan areas. It is estimated that forty-

two million more people will be living in these areas just seventeen years from now.

...All

of these facts and many more have . . . pointed up the necessity for a thorough analysis of the

use of our land and water resources to determine how . . .

JANUARY, 1964

recreation needs may be met.

ALLEN T. EDMUNDS, National Park Service

11

 

NEW PATHS T0
RECREATION

SPME

 

T APPING FRESH SOURCES

Do you need funds for expanded services?

Robert W. Crawford

WE ARE on the
threshold of
a sociological
breakthrough that
will be one of the
most important

mankind has ever

 

experienced. The
fields to watch are those of a cultural
and recreation nature which are in for
a tremendous expansion. They will be-
come a progressively more important
function of city government. It is going
to be most difficult to secure adequate
funds, not only for development but for
operation purposes, for all of the serv-
ices that should be provided. Therefore,
new sources of funds for development
and operation must be tapped. Cities
must explore new ways and means, both
private and public.

Philadelphia has done this in several
ways. A group of public-spirited Phila-
delphia citizens, with the approval of
the mayor and the city government,
formed a corporation which issued a
combination of bonds and stocks and

MR. CRAWFORD is commissioner 0/ rec-
reation in Philadelphia and a member
of the National Recreation Association
Board of Trustees. This material is
taken from a Speech delivered at the
American Municipal Congress in Aus-
tin, Texas. His many contributions to
the recreation field in general and to
recreation in Philadelphia were hailed
in a recent article in Presbyterian Life

(August 1, 1963).

 

I‘)

raised three million dollars to finance
an aquarama which has been in opera-
tion for almost a year. Attendance has
justified the need for this fine addition
to the city’s cultural and recreation

services.

Philadelphia is located 011 two major
rivers and yet has had no marina for
the use of the general public. A non-
profit organization was formed by a
group of the city’s top citizens to initi-
ate plans for construction of a large
marina with supporting facilities, lo-
cated on city land, under a nominal
lease. Adequate representation of the
city government is on the board of di-
rectors. A program worked out with
boat owners assures adequate finances
which will enable the program_ to get
under way in the near future. It is es-
timated that the marina and facilities
will cost in the neighborhood of ten
million dollars. Included will be six
hundred boat slips to start with, a
boatel, yacht club, outdoor movie, play
area, boat sales display, and shopping
facilities. At the end of thirty years
all properties on the land revert to city
ownership. In the agreement with the
city, the organization has stated that
any profits accruing, after indebtedness
is paid oil, will be returned to the city
for recreation purposes.

THE LEASE PURCHASE plan of securing
facilities is worthy of mention.
For example, Oakland. California, pro-

poses to build a stadium and a coliseum
through this method of financing, with
a total expenditure of $25,000,000 un-
der its lease-purchase revenue bond is-
sue program. As soon as the bond issue
is paid off, the stadium and coliseum
will become the joint property of the
city and the county, each to have a half
interest.

In Philadelphia, as well as in Oak-

land and other cities, agreements have
been worked out with boards of edu-
cation to purchase adequate sites for
school and recreation purposes, adja-
cent to each other. Thus, the area can
be purchased and joint use made of the
facilities. (See “Guide for Joint Use
of Facilities,” the multi-use policy es-
tablished in Austin, Texas, RECREA-
TION, September 1963.)

NEW DEVELOPMENTS in setting aside
recreation sites by developers is
one of the areas of concern of many
municipalities. Reports to National
Recreation Association headquarters
indicate that regulations requiring the
dedication of recreation land are not
always workable or successful. They
are difficult to enforce and the plan may
result in areas too small to be useful as
well as expensive to maintain. Some
municipalities have called for a cash

distribution to be placed in a city fund
for the acquisition of recreation land.

Recent legal decisions have ruled this
out in some communities—but this was

RECREATION

because the decisions were based on the
working of local subdivision ordi-
nances. Perhaps a more effective way
is to require the developer of any sub-
stantial subdivision to provide mini-
mum recreation facilities—and to give
him an inducement to do this by au-
thorizing cluster dwellings or other ar-
rangements that will enable him to
make more effective use of the land.
(See also Page 16.)

The City Planning Commission of
Philadelphia is encouraging developers
to set aside stream valleys and other
recreation areas. A complete plan of
the northeast section of the city, where
most of the development has occurred,
was made before developments started,
based on principles of cluster housing
along with the preservation of stream
valleys as open space. Carefully worked
out with the developers and represent-
atives of city council as developments
occurred, they were directly required
to deed those areas on the master plan.
There has been marked success with
this program which was achieved by
persuasion and cooperation as there
have been over 350 acres already dedi-
cated to the city by developers repre-
senting approximately one million dol-
lars in land value.

Baltimore County, Maryland, is con-
sidering the passage of a law to require
home developers to preserve a percent-
age of the land for recreation and open
space. Many builders, of course, are
developing recreation facilities them-
selves which add immeasurably to the
resources of the community. For exam-

New England's second largest city,
Providence, Rhode Island,

is the center of the most highly
industrialized state in the Union. It
faces extensive urban renewal of

its downtown area and has issued a
detailed master plan entitled

Downtown Providence 1970.

JANUARY, 1964

ple, a group of investors have acquired
a thousand acres in Baltimore County
for housing development and they have
reserved thirty-seven percent for the
development of recreation facilities.
Another developer has built an eighteen-
hole golf course and then constrUCted
houses adjacent to the course, thereby
greatly increasing land values.

CONGRESS has enacted, under Title

VII in the Housing Act of 1961,
federal assistance for communities, re-
gions, and states to acquire open-space
land. This program is administered by
the Urban Renewal Administration of
the Housing and Home Finance Agen-
cy. These federal grants are usually
employed to acquire sites in suburban
fringe areas. By the end of 1962, only
one local government in the Philadel-
phia area, Whitemarsh Township, had
filed an application for Title VII open-
space aid.

Open-space land under Title VII is
undeveloped or predominantly unde-
veloped land in urban areas having use
for park, recreation, conservation, his-
toric, or scenic purposes. Open-space
lands to be acquired with federal assist-
ance should be of sufficient size so that
their permanent dedication to open
space uses will have a substantial effect
on curbing suburban sprawl and pre-
venting the spread of urban blight and
deterioration. Ten acres in one contin-
uous tract has been determined as the

minimum necessary to accomplish this
purpose.
The federal grant to an eligible pub-

lic body may not exceed twenty percent
of the cost of the land. However, grants
of up to thirty percent may be made
where the public body has authority to
acquire open-space land for an urban
area as a whole, or for all or a substan-
tial portion of an urban area pursuant
to an interstate or intergovernmental
compact or agreement.

The open-space land grant applies
only to the cost of acquiring title to
open-space lands, or permanent inter-
ests, such as easements, where these
lesser interests will serve the desired
purpose. It does not cover the costs of
any proposed construction, develop-
ment, or improvement, or of adminis-
trative expenses, such as appraisals,
real property taxes, or closing costs.
Philadelphia hopes to be able to secure
some much-needed waterfront parkland
as a result of this program.

PHILADELPHIA also has a program for

the acquisition and utilization of
tax-delinquent vacant land. Serious tax-
delinquent vacant lots are acquired by
the city at sheriff sale. Many of the
vacant lots are then made available
without charge for use by interested
community groups by an agreement.
Organizations are required to maintain
the property and to carry insurance for
their own as well as the city’s protec-
tion. These areas are used for small
fiower gardens, restful sitting areas, tot-
lots, play space for larger children, and
parking areas. Thus, a neighborhood

eyesore becomes a community asset and

a source for recreation. ) )

 

The city of Philadelphia recently ex-
ecuted an agreement with the Common-
wealth of Pennsylvania whereby ninety
percent of the appraised value of city-
owned land, includinfr

D
recreation areas, condemned for the

parkland and

Interstate Delaware Expresswayw-an
eight-lane limited-access freeway
through the heart of Philadelphia—will
be reimbursed to the city. This is in
accord with the provisions of the Fed-
eral Aid Highway Act and policies of
the Federal Bureau of Public Roads
and the Commonwealth of Pennsyl-
vania. The reimbursement will not ap-
ply to city property which has been ac—
quired by gift or grant from the com-
monwealth or federal government;
however, payment will be made for
monies expended or

made to such property.

improvements

Some cities, including Philadelphia,
are recommending funds received from
this program be appropriated for mov-
ing recreation facilities and securing
additional land that would replace the
acreage taken for federal highway pur-
poses. This, no doubt, is an intelligent
approach to this problem of losing park
and recreation land for highways.

The 1961 amendment to the federal
highway code specifically authorized

states or political subdivisions thereof
to use, or permit the use of, air-space

CITIZENS
ON THE
ALERT

William L. Foley

1/1

 

above and below the established grade
line of the highway pavement for such
purposes as will not impair the full use
and safety of the highway, and will not
require or permit vehicular access to
such space directly from such estab-
lished grade line of the highway, or
otherwise interfere in any way with
the free How of traffic on the interstate
system. i

This is the basis for possible favor-
able consideration of Philadelphia’s
suggestion to extend some recreation
facilities through and under the Dela-
ware Expressway in south Philadel-
phia, which will provide more land for
recreation purposes. No doubt valu-
able use can be made of the space under
the elevated highways for limited rec-
reation use.

M ANY cities have received donations
of recreation and parkland by
public-spirited citizens. With the grad-
ual disappearance of large land owners
within our boundaries, it is increasingly
difficult to obtain gifts of land. At the
same time, these sources of securing
land for recreation purposes should not
be overlooked, even in congested cities.

There are some very fine examples
of groups and individuals giving cash
grants for specific projects. In Oak-
land, California, there was a donation

of $70,000 to build a cultural center by

SOME COMMUNI-
. TIES abound in
village characters,
but Scarsdale, New
York, is a village
with character. Ac-
cordingto the 1960

Census, Scarsdale’s
citizens had the highest per capita fam-
ily income in the country. It is an area
of line homes, and its schools and com-
munity endeavors have received wide
acclaim.

MR. FOLEY was recently appointed as-
sistant to the village manager in Scars-
dale, New York, after serving as super-
intendent of recreation.

 

the Junior Center of Art and Science to
pay for a half of the recreation building
and fieldhouse. One of the advisory
councils in Philadelphia recently raised
funds to air-condition a recreation cen-
ter. Last year, the city of Philadelphia
received fourteen acres of very valuable
land from a distinguished citizen for
the construction of a playground. ( See
also “It’s a Gift!” Page 20.)

The township of Abingtnn, Pennsyl-
vania, recently received a gift of fifty-
four acres from one of its prominent
citizens, and the township has con-
structed a fine community park and
recreation area that any city would be
delighted to have within its borders.

Examples too numerous to mention
could be given of service clubs, civic
groups, parent organizations as well as
individuals throughout the country that
donated funds as well as time and labor
for the provision of more recreation fa-
cilities and programs.

Since the bulldozer is eating up open
space at an alarming rate, the preserva-
tion of present open space, park and
recreation land as well as the acquisi—
tion of new areas, is one of the most

important problems facing municipali-
ties and cities throughout the country.

Postponement in facing this problem
only adds to the cost of such acquisition

at a later date. #

In December 1962, Mayor Alden C.
Smith and the Village Board of Trus-

tees of Scarsdale presented as an in-
terim report for the information of the
citizens of the village, a document en-
titled the Master Policies Plan Report.
This report is significant for its spe-
cial treatment of the subject of “open
space,” upon which has been con-
structed a framework of policies. In
the “Open Space” section of the report,
the village administration provided for
an “Alerting Mechanism.” This alerts
citizens, neighborhood organizations,
civic groups, and the village adminis-
tration to any change in the status of
open land within the community.

Why should this concern a village

RECREATION

like Scarsdale, a residential community
of one-family homes, with what would
appear to be adequate open space, and
with no industry? This concern is prob-
ably best stated in the first two para-
graphs of a General Policy statement in
the report: “Scarsdale is an exception-
ally attractive and desirable low-density,
semi-rural residential community. The
residents of Scarsdale have expressed
the desire that every effort be made to
retain this character. The recommenda-
tions and suggestions embodied within
the Scarsdale Master Policies Plan are
advanced to accomplish this objective.
The Policies Plan is predicated upon a
continued interest and willingness on
the part of the residents to bear the
costs of remaining an attractive low-
density residential community.”

The facts are that eighty-five percent
of all land in the village is in private
ownership. All categories of open space,
public and private, contribute owner-
ship. All categories of open space, pub-
lic and private, contribute to Scarsdale’s
residential character. Unfortunately,
private open space, the key element in
the community’s appearance, is highly
vulnerable to the increasing pressures
for development. Moreover, because
much of this open space is distributed
throughout the village in relatively
small tracts, its gradual disappearance
might hardly be noticed until it is too
late. To be sure, the bulk of this open
space might remain undeveloped for a
long period of time. Some of it is pro-
tected by zoning. However, as matters
now stand, there is no other assurance
that this will be the case. In terms of
Scarsdale’s overriding planning objec-
tive, then, the problem is to gain a
higher degree of assurance that a sub-
stantial amount of open space will not
be lost.

AT PRESENT, Scarsdale’s population
is slightly over eighteen thousand.
Under present zoning, the ultimate pop-
ulation could reach twenty-five thou-
sand. The impact of future development
will not, as most people think, take place
with the possibility of the breaking-up
of Scarsdale’s two private golf clubs;
nor will the majority of it be in absen-
tee-owned lots (non-resident ownership
of vacant land). The largest develop-
ment will take. place in the owner-used

JANUARY, 1964

subdivided lot (the empty lot next to
your house but owned by your next-
door neighbor whosc house is on the
other side of it) and, in the owner-used
lot that is not subdivided (larger es-
tates, et cetera, in excess of present zon-
ing where a subdivision of the property
is legally permissible) .

After reviewing earlier studies made
by the Institute of Public Administra-
tion at the request of the village, and
after numerous public hearings and
meetings with local groups, the board
decided that as part of its general
policy, the village will devote efforts to
the preservation of open-space land.
The policy is to use conventional tech-
niques and also to develop new tech-

 

niques. The aim is to preserve as much
open space as possible with the least ex-
penditure of public funds. In the use of
these techniques, great reliance is
placed upon cooperative citizen action.
The board felt that citizens did not ex-
pect the administration to acquire the
privately owned open land which totaled
more than eight hundred acres with an

estimated value of about $17,000,000.

STEPS TAKEN as a matter of policy
were:

0 The establishment of an “Alerting
Mechanism.” This provided avenues of
communication and information con-
cerning specific. parcels and ownership.
In connection with the alert, the ad-
ministration provides services in the
form of maps, studies, color slides, et
cetera. Also, the village government
acts as a clearing house and educa-
tional agency on matters pertaining to
open space.

0 The use of conventional preservation
techniques. These included zoning, ac-
quisitions of title to land via gifts and

transfer of trusts, acquisition of title to

land via direct purchase, and, finally,
strong park and recreation require-
ments in new subdivisions.

0 The use of new preservation tech-
niques. This includes the acquisition of
first refusal rights or options to buy, the
intention to acquire development (ease-
ment) rights to property in return for
reduced assessments, the acquisition of
land on behalf of interested groups of
individuals (special assessment dis-
tricts) , and study of measures to insure
that original commitments by individu-
als and private groups to “keep land
open” would not be revoked.

0 Providing administrative staff and
finances to implement the open-space
policies and conduct research. An ap-
propriation of $100,000 in the current
budget was the first step. Work of vari-
ous municipal departments was co-
ordinated to implement studies and in-
vestigations. Maps and overlays show-
ing various types of land and different
types of ownership were updated. A
strong liaison was effected with both
the zoning board of appeals and the
planning commission.

0 Pressure for an amendment to the
New York State Village Law that would
empower the village board to condemn
land or interests therein for preserva-
tion as open space. As the law now
stands, municipalities may only cou-
demn land for specific public purposes
(highways, recreation, and parks, et
cetera) , and open space is not included
in these functions.

Thus, Scarsdale, a community that
used foresight in developing a uni-
formity law on housing construction
and which was one of the first to de-
velop a zoning ordinance, has alerted
its residents on the value of open-space
preservation. The people of Scarsdale
are determined to retain the present
character of their village. The battle
will not be easy, especially for a com-
munity situated in the midst of an ex-
ploding metropolitan region. Most resi-
dents feel, however, that with the proper
utilization of the alerting mechanism
and with the joint cooperation of local
government, some sixteen neighbor-
hood associations, and a like amount of
park, recreation, Town Club, Woman’s
Club, League of Women Voters, and
other civic groups, the task will be ac-

complished. # ."'

vi“.

15

 

NEW PATHS T0
RECREATION

$M©E

 

Joseph E. Curtis

I IKE MOST MU-
NICIPALITIES,

\Vhite Plains, New

York, has for many
years operated un-
der zoning ordi-
nances which con-
trolthetype,height,
density, and other features of private
and multi-family housing. One such
ordinance contained a specification that
for every housing unit in an apartment-
house project, twenty-five square feet
of “open space” must be provided by
the builder. Recent study and analysis
has shown, however, that this stipula-
tion was inadequate in size and far too
indefinite for effectiveness.

Many existing apartment-house units
provided the bare minimum of required
space by leaving strips of walkways,
scraps of turf, and, in some cases, sheets
of blacktop in the rear of buildings
which, when added together on paper,
met the basic requirements under the
old ordinance specification. Concerned
about this, the commissioner of build-
ing and the city planning engineer
called a meeting with representatives of
the department of recreation and parks
to hammer out a new amendment to the
zoning ordinance which would be more
specific and would prevent the piece-
meal scattering of spaces about future
housing projects.

After several meetings, a new amend-
ment was prepared and submitted by
the commissioner of building to the city
planning board. Following much dis-
cussion and some modifications, the

 

MR. CURTIS is commissioner of recrea-
tion and parks in White Plains, N. Y.

16

ZONING FOR
TODAY’S
NEEDS

A city revises its zoning ordinance to update specifications for play-and-sit areas

ordinance was completed, submitted to
the city common council, and approved,
and it went into effect in November
1962. All concerned with it feel that
here is a major step forward. Most
cities face similar problems, but rela-
tively few have updated their ordi-
nances.

THE PURPOSE of this amendment is to
insure the provision of small, at-
tractively landscaped areas strategically
located within the grounds of new
apartment projects. It is intended to
serve all ages among the residents, and
the “play-and-sit” areas are to be so
designed. Function and simple beauty
should be blended in these locations. (It
is important to note that they are not
intended as playgrounds, ballfields or
a substitute for public play facilities in
the neighborhood.) They are intended
for play by small children within sand
or turf areas, as well as for the more

passive sitting, readinGr strollinor and

a: or
sunning by older youth and adults. The
tasteful placing of benches, shrubs,
shade trees, and decorative outdoor
furniture should do much to make these
“play-and-sit” spaces distinct assets to
the apartment-house development.
Two factors in the ordinance are sig-
nificant. First, it directs that no dimen-
sion will be less than twenty-five feet.
This precludes the possibility of long
narrow useless strips being so dedi-
cated. Second, it directs that, when a
certain size play area is exceeded, a new,
separate and “independent” play-sit
space must be established. This was
aimed at forestalling the device of add-

ing and adding to the original piece un-

til one large ungainly piece would be
centrally located. This could easily be-
come a natural attraction point for
older teenagers, for ballgames, and for
general rough activity. It is more de-
sirable that two or more smaller units,
separately located, serve the needs of
the small children, their parents, and
the more passive interests of the other
age groups. The boisterous, more ac-
tive play of adolescent children and
young adults is best accommodated in
larger, more ruggedly designed play-
grounds or parks, and it is felt that
these should be provided by the munici-
pality at some other location than the
play-and-sit spaces.

THE FOLLOWING is the ordinance en-
acted by the common council of the
city of White Plains on November 5,
1962, as an amendment to its zoning
ordinance. Its text includes only that
portion referring specifically to “play-
and-sit space.”

0 Play-and-sit space shall be provided
for any structures containing eight or
more dwelling units.

0 The gross area of a play-and-sit space
shall be not less than 625 square‘feet
for each dwelling unit. This required
space for the first 120 units shall be in
one integral piece with no dimension
less than twenty-five feet.

0 Additional independent play-and-sit
spaces shall be provided for each addi-
tional increment of twenty-five to 120
dwelling units over the first 120 dwell-
ing units within the same minimum and
increment areas and dimensional stand-
ards required for the first such area.

0 Play-and-sit spaces shall be readily

RECREATION

accessible from all dwelling units which
they serve and shall not be close to auto-
mobiles, busy streets, or other hazard-
ous areas unless suitably separated from
such areas by approved barriers. The
spaces shall not be closer at any point
than fifteen feet from the windows of
the nearest dwelling units on the same
floor level.

0 Adequate fencing shall be provided.
Where, in the opinion of the commis-
sioner of building, safety is a factor, a
minimum five-foot chain-link type fence
shall be provided. Where safety is not
a factor, a decorative-type fencing or
barrier may be installed. Gates for
safety and control shall be provided
in both instances.

0 Each required independent space
shall be provided with a minimum of
two 8-foot-long park-type benches, plus
one such bench for each ten dwelling
units, or part thereof, over twenty-five
dwelling units. All equipment shall be

maintained in a safe, clean, and useful
condition.

0 The paved area of required play-and-
sit spaces shall not be greater than a
third the total area of each required
space. At least two-thirds of the area
of any required play-and-sit space shall
be maintained as grass or flower or

shrubbery beds.

0 Plans showing location, landscaping,
and further compliance with the fore-
going standards shall be submitted with
other required building-“plans at the
time of applying for a permit to con-
struct a multiple residence and shall be
approved before a building permit may

be issued. #

JANUARY, 1964

 

Picturesque Hong Kong has a charm all its own

Pick your travel pleasure for 1964!

The World

- Europe

PLUS Tokyo olympics, New York Fair

This is THE year for you to have the
travel experience you’ve been prom-
ising yourself. Here’s how:

In June, or in September with the
I964 Galloway Friendship Tour, you
can visit the famous New York World's
Fair—at no extra travel cost. You can
enioy a fabulous tour of Europe. You
can be one of the happy ones on our

experience-of—a-lifetime Round the
World Tour—including the I964

' uuomy

1114 South Ave., Plainfield, N. J. 07062

THE PER‘I’fCT PACKAGED SHElTER!

 - r. .3 I

r M
‘  .- c ‘ '
m ' '
m “a - _
‘Ac 3rd.  He’lh'LxxL “ L‘ if: mfg." V‘ V
l  '"ii‘mesit ate-3e”; 

KWIK—BILT, INC. Box 6834, Dallas 19, Tex.

     
        

  

 

cthirJ
HYWORLD. Ind.

" tow FACTORY-DIRECT PRICES

SEll. OUR TROPHIES WHOlE'
SALE IN YOUR CITY. FOR IN,-
FORMATION WRITE ATTEN;
TION PRESIDENT. ' " .

 

FRIENDSHIP TOURS

 

Olympic Games at Tokyo, again at
no extra travel cost!

It’s the finest travel opportunity in
years. It’s the best travel bargain in
years. And, since our Space is strictly
limited, it's time to decide now to
make I964 YOUR travel year—with
the Galloway Friendship Tours.
Co-Sponsored by the editors of

“Camping Magazine." Write now
for full information.

Please send without obligation Color I
Booklet R describing your 1964 tours.

City ................. ..

Iprefer: [:1 June
[I Round-the-World

September [:1
Europe I]

 

“’ORLD \VIDE GAMES

Delaware, Ohio

Enioyed by Adults and Children

0 Sturdin built for rugged use

0 Ski" games and table games

0 Equipment games and puzzles
o Manufactured and sold by
Warren and Mary Lea Bailey

Write for Free Catalog

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 1T

 

NEW mus T0
RECREATION

SMIBE

 

John F. Shanklin

UTDOOR RECREATION is a major
0 leisure-time activity of grow-

ing importance. About ninety
percent of all Americans participated in
some form in 1960. Certainly, partici-
pation will increase with greater popu-
lation and leisure. Whereas in the sum-
mer of 1960 people sought the outdoors
on 4,400,000,000 separate occasions,
estimates are that by the year 2000
there will be 12,400,000 visits to recrea-
tion areas a yearn—a threefold increase.
Obviously, such an intensity will have
impact—one of major importance—on
industrial forest holdings.

Although the chief reasons for pro-
viding outdoor recreation are the broad
social and individual benefits, there also
are desirable economic effects. Outdoor
recreation may enhance community
values by creating a better place to live.
It may he the mainstay of the local
economy. Both these may happen on
industrial forest holdings or on adjacent
lands.

Outdoor recreation will demand more
land, but much of it can be used for
several purposes. Presently, there is
little basic information on the relative
importance of outdoor recreation as a
resource. As research provides better
answers, forest managers may make
sounder decisions on the allocation of
forest resources to outdoor recreation.
Several of these major findings of the
Outdoor Recreation Resources Review

Commission are pertinent to the inter-

MR. SIIANKLIN is assistant director of
the U.S. Bureau of Outdoor Recreation.
This material was presented at the an-
nual meeting of the Southern Pulpwood
Conservation Association in Jackson-

»vitle, Florida, January 1963.
18

EXPANDING USE OF
INDUSTRIAL FOREST LAND

3::

as.
y-

g.

est of forest land owners and operators.

The commission found that the most
popular activities are the simple ones—
driving, walking, swimming, and pic-
nicking ( see RECREATION, March and
April “1962). At least three of those
may be enjoyed in whole or in part
within commercial forests.

Outdoor opportunities are most ur-
gently needed near metropolitan areas,
where three-fourths of our people will
live by the turn of the century. Forest
holdings within a few hours’ travel of
metropolitan areas will become increas-
ingly important. Outdoor recreation is
often compatible with other resource
uses. The commission found that recre-
ation need not be the exclusive use, par-
ticularly of larger areas such as the
larger industrial forest. Recreation can
be another use in a development man-
aged for a primary purpose, such as
forest products.

RECOMMENDATIONS which bear par-
ticularly on the relationship be-
tween public bodies and industrial for-
est land owners and managers reveal:
0 That individual initiative andiprivate
enterprise should be the most'important
forces in providing outdoor recreation.
0 That government agencies stimulate
diversified commercial investments on
private lands and waters, and that
greater public recreation use be made
of private lands and waters. -

0 That states encourage public use of
private lands through leases for hunt-
ing and fishing, scenic easements, and
protection for landowners who allow
public use of their lands. Public agen-
cies are now active in providing simpli-
fied capital borrowing procedures and

public loans programs. High cost of
personal liability insurance also ap-
pears to be a problem that needs review
by public agencies.

0 That greater public use he made of
private lands and waters.

We are indebted to James C. Mc-
Clellan, chief forester of the American
Forest Products Industry, for an analy-
sis of the nationwide public-opinion
surveys the forest industries made in
1952, 1956, and 1960. The 1952 and
1956 surveys indicated that two out of
five people thought forest industry
lands were not available for recreation.
The general public is now better in-
formed. The 1960 survey covered 518
companies controlling over 58,000,000
acres, or approximately 86 percent of
the forest industry lands of the United
States. It showed that 88 percent of the
acreage was open to picnicking, 90 per-
cent to hiking, 85 percent to swimming
on the lakes and streams of 49,000,000
acres, 86 percent was open to camping
on 50,000,000 acres, 37 percent was
open to winter Sports on 21,000,000
acres, and so it goes. Obviously, the
forest industry’s lands of the nation are
Open for many forms of recreation.

HE ORRRC records a series of case
histories of outdoor recreation pri-

vate lands. One relates to a Western
forest products company which Opened
practically all of its forest lands to pub-
lic recreation. The major rcstrictions
imposed were that hunters are not al-
lowed in logging areas during the week.
hunting is not allowed around camps.
areas may be closed during critical fire
periods, some woods roads may he tem-
porarily closed during wet weather to

RECREATION

Individual initiative and private enterprise

should be important in providing outdoor recreation,

says the ORRRC report

prevent undue damage, and other sim-
ilar reasonable requirements to prevent
damage to facilities or danger to human
lives.

This company has nearly 1,500,000
acres in the national tree farm program.
Its major function is the growth of trees
and production of timber products, but
it recognizes and encourages multiple
use of its lands. Generally, the people
entering these lands recognize that they
are guests, that the danger of fire exists,
and that courtesy is reciprocal. Only
three hunters caused fires in 1959 and
six in 1960, all held to small losses.

Hunting is the major recreation ac-
tivity on this company’s northern hold-
ings. It provides several camping and
picnic areas with tables, permanent fire-
places, running water, and sanitary fa-
cilities. The program on its southern
holdings is broader and includes trap-
ping, swimming, berry picking, and
other popular recreation activities. Five
picnic areas total about forty acres.
There are three hundred miles of forest
roads and sixty-five miles of streams for
public fishing available on the southern
holdings.

The company recognizes that provid-
ing its lands for recreation causes a
certain amount of expense. No records
were kept, however, because the local
crews service the areas as needed and
the expense is repaid through public
good will.

There is a different philosophy de-
scribed in many periodicals in recent
years as follows: Private industry is the
same as a lot owned by a home owner.
It is not the responsibility of a home
owner to provide a barbecue pit or a
tennis court in the backyard for the

JANUARY, 1964

benefit of his neighbors. The home
owner is the same as a private firm with
an investment in property which he ex-
pects to yield him a return.

However, such philosophy is dimin-
ishing. Most forest industries with
large holdings are moving gradually
but surely towards fuller development,
evidenced in the many recreation use
plans which industrial land owners are
making available. ( See “Public Parks
on Private Property,” RECREATION, N o-
vember 1956.)

The Bureau of Outdoor Recreation
is charged with the coordination of fed-
eral outdoor recreation programing.
More than thirty federal agencies en-
gage in recreation activities, either be-
cause they manage land and water or
because their statutory functions in-
clude fact finding, service, regulatory,
or other duties which may relate di-
rectly or indirectly to recreation.

“Coordination” is difiicult to accom-
plish. No power has been conferred on
the bureau by statute or executive fiat
to impose its will on any other govern-
ment entity. “Correlation” is perhaps
a better word. The objective of correla-
tion or coordination is being achieved
through legislative review, budgetary
review, conference, consultation, and
the respect for the status which the bu-
reau may gain over the years to come,
as well as the force of public opinion

which should develop behind it.

THE SECOND MAJOR aspect of the bu-
reau’s responsibilities lies in the
field of assistance to state and to local
instrumentalities of government as well
as to private sector. The third major
Continued on Page 44

 

Commemorated in hoppiness. Gifts such as
Lincoln Center in Columbus, Indiana, are a
lasting tribute to civic-minded citizens.’

‘ x L“
V  ’33. of
’5“

20

 

When Aline Barnsdoll donoted to the city of los Angeles
the pork which beors her name, the gift included her
home designed by Frank Lloyd Wright.

IT’S

GIFT!

in-Wonderlond statue ond

UBLIC-SPIRITED citizens and foun-
P dations have been making im-

portant contributions to parks
and recreation in the form of donations
of land, money, and facilities. Among

recent such gifts are:

0 Seven hundred acres in Clinton
County given to New York State by the
William H. Miner Foundation of Chi-
cago for future recreation use. Included
is 110-acre Miner Lake.

0 Five thousand dollars from the Alice
and Leonard Dreyfuss Foundation to
the Turtle Back Zoo in Essex County,
New Jersey. It will be used for a “Star
of the Week” exhibit built to accommo-
date a wide variety of animals and
birds. It will have a concrete slab base
in the shape of a star, stretching twenty-

 

Pork, New York City, children grovitate to the Alice-
can't resist climbing oll
over it. The statue wos a gift from the George and
Marguerite Delocorte Foundation.

two feet from one point to another and
be fourteen feet high.

0 A hundred dollars from an honest
man, aged seventy-two, recently given
to the Los Angeles City Recreation and
Parks Department in payment for the
times he had slept in Elysian Park fif-
teen years ago. It will be used for a
drinking fountain and faucet atop Ra-
dio Hill in Elysian Park.

0 In Oregon, 1.4 acres along the Lost
River for a fishing and picnicking area
presented to the Klamath County Parks
Commission by George A. Stevenson.
It will be named in honor of his wife,
Myler. The site has long been a favor-
ite recreation spot for local residents.
0 An additional sixty acres donated to

Continued on Page 31

RECREATION

You can't see the statue for the childrenl ln Centrol

 

 

 

IIEW mus T0
RECREATION

MUSE

RECREATION

  

5.

~"
"...".d'
- O
.. .
 -

HARVEST

It all started with an irrigation pond for the crops and

led to farm recreation facilities

Lester Fox

HEN he built a three-acre pond on his 112-acre farm
at Cream Ridge, New Jersey in 1950, Edward C.

Noller did not foresee that pond was to lead him
into the farm recreation business. Mr. N oller built the pond
to have water for irrigating his crops. His secondary aim
was to eliminate a swampy area in which the pond was
centered. After a while he added a small sandy beach for
family use. Soon, though, friends and neighbors discovered
the beach. Before long as many as 150 were coming to the
beach to swim and bask in the sun.

Then, one day, one of the guests said to Mr. Noller, “You
ought to serve hotdogs and charge admission.” Mr. Noller
got to work on that idea right away. From his design, a
local contractor put up a $25,000 building that includes
thirty—six private cabanas, shower and dressing rooms for
families not holding cabana rentals, a breezeway where
bulletins are posted, and a snack bar. All plumbing is mod-
ern. Showers have hot and cold water. Mr. Noller added a
large beach that recedes gently into the pond for the safe use
of tiny tots. He sprinkled the ten-acre recreation area with
twenty-six picnic tables shaded by large adjustable, gaily

MR. FOX is a member of the Field Information Unit of the
U.S. Soil Conservation Service in Upper Derby, Pennsyl-
vania. See his article, “Recreation Site Finders,” RECREA-
TION, February 1963.

JANUARY, 1964

colored parasols. Ten grills are available for cookouts.

Bright-colored swings get a workout from the young fry
invigorated with a dip in the lake. A roofed pavilion extend-
ing partly over the pond provides a cool spot for relaxation
on a hot day. It is equipped with a diving board, the water
at the point being ten feet deep. There are facilities also for
softball, badminton, volleyball, and horseshoe pitching. All
equipment is furnished. Another pond, close by, beckons
the fisherman. Mr. Noller furnishes canoes for boating in a
part of the lake removed from the beach.

Mr. Noller opened his recreation center in the summer of
1961. He operates it on a membership basis. Last year the
membership totalled forty families. Mr. Noller figures ca-
pacity at 125 families. Membership rates vary with family
size. They range from $40 a year for one person to $125
for a family of four or more, including all unmarried chil-
dren. Weekend memberships cost two-thirds of these rates.
A private cabana is $40extra. Applications received before
May 1 get a ten percent discount. Members may bring
guests for $.75 each on weekdays, $.95 on Saturdays, Sun-
days, and holidays.

OPENING DATE is June 23. The beach season closes with
a gala celebration on Labor Day. The fishing season
Continues beyond Labor Day. In winter the pond is open

21

 

Old Macdanald had a form but nothing like the Naller farm in Cream Ridge, New Jersey. A small
family beach developed along an irrigation pond became a thriving commercial recreation enterprise.

..    ’ I

,.

Mothers relax at Naller's Homestead Lake while their children swim under the lifeguard's watchful
eye. The large beach recedes gently into the pond for safe use by tiny tots. Pond originally cost $265.

to members for skating. The place, known as Homestead
Lake, is near Freehold, Trenton, Bordentown, Allentown,
and Hightstown, all places short on recreation facilities.
Homestead Lake is the only private recreation center of its
kind in the area.

Only packaged food and soft drinks are sold at the snack
bar. The youngsters go in heavily for this kind of thing.
Their parents lean toward the fresh, hot coffee that is fur-
nished free. "If we had to pay for help to run the snack bar,

22

 

 

 

we’d lose money on it,” Mr. Noller said. “If we sold cooked
food, we could afford to employ help and we may do that.”
Mr. and Mrs. Noller and their children help run the place.
Patricia (Penny), a 1962 college graduate and now in her
first year of teaching the fourth grade, and Kathie, a high-
school senior, seem to get a lot of fun out of helping mom
and dad operate the business. Certified Red Cross lifeguards
are employed, one on weekdays, two on weekends. Last
summer one was a high-school senior; the other, a college

RECREATION

Youngsters farm a line in a swim from the b
the end of June and closes with a gala celeb]

Mr. and Mrs. Edward C. Noller (foreground
plans with Neal Munch, head of U.S. Sail Cc

 

Penny has her hands full trying to satisfy the thirst ond oppetites of octive youngsters. Only pock-

' - diving platform. The beoch seoson opens
aged food and soft drinks ore sold at the Homesteod snack bor. Hot coffee is furnished free to adults.

n labor Doy rolls around. Fishing continues.

 

And away we got Diving boord thrums constontly. After 0 dip, youngsters like to try the brightly col-
ored swings. Other focilities include softboll, badminton, volleyboll, horseshoe pitching, et cetero.

ir daughter Potricia (Penny) go over their
-n Service operations in the Freehold district.

 

\

freshman. Each morning they clean the grills and disinfect
the shower rooms. Regular farm workers maintain the
grounds and at regular intervals spray the area for insect
control.

B IRDS are an attraction at Homestead Lake. An island in
the pond invites ducks and geese on their spring and
fall migrations. Besides, there are bluebirds, swallows, red-
wing blackbirds, quail, and pheasants. Because of the wild-

JANUARY, 1964

life and the soil and water conservation work Mr. Noller has
done, the place receives visits from school classes engaged
in nature studies. Mr. Noller also opens the area to church
picnics.

Mr. Noller figures his total investment in the recreation
area at $30,000. “The pond is the cheapest part of the whole
layout; yet it’s the nucleus of the entire recreation enter-
prise,” Mr. Noller says. “It originally cost only $265.”

Site for the pond was certified as suitable by U. S. Soil

23

Conservation Service technicians. They also designed the
pond, part of an over-all conservation plan they helped Mr.
N oller develop and apply. As a cooperator with his Freehold
Soil Conservation District, he is entitled to this free techni-
cal help from the SCS. He had been a cooperator with the
district for fifteen years, for the past five or six years he has
been chairman of its board of supervisors. His conservation
program has been extensive.

All these conservation measures add to the usefulness of
the recreation area. In addition, Mr. Noller built a diversion
terrace to keep rainoff from flowing into the pond, taking
the sandy beach with it.

Mr. N oller has kept up his farming. Last summer he had
sixty acres in potatoes, seven in strawberries, six in Christ-
mas trees, and five in woodland. “I’m a farmer at heart,”
Mr. Noller said. “There’s a farming background of at least
three generations in my family. My wife had a farm back-
ground too. But, with rising costs, it’s becoming more dif-
ficult all the time to stay in farming. Urban encroachment
which skyrockets taxes, doesn’t help any. Paid recreation
may prolong a farmer’s stay on his land.” (See also “Recrea-
tion Use of Farm Lands,” RECREATION, December 1962.)

G ETTING into the recreation business wasn’t easy, either,
Mr. Noller found. To know What he was doing, he
studied a number of public recreation spots. He made
numerous trips to the library to read up on public park equip-

. ment. He Checked with all state and local government offices

that might have a say in any recreation development on
private land. He found out that the water in the pond had
to be tested regularly by a licensed sanitary engineer.
(Water quality has been found excellent.) He learned that
all sanitary installations had to be approved.

He also found out that since the area was zoned for agri-
culture, he would have to obtain a variance before he got
into the recreation business. To get a hearing on his appeal
for a variance, he first had to obtain the signatures of all the
landowners of the area approving the zoning change.

He also learned that anyone going into the recreation busi-
ness better have plenty of liability insurance. “That,” he
declares, “is an expensive part of the operation.” Mr. Noller
figures he must take in $9,000 a year to break even. “That
much,” he states, “is needed to take care of operating ex-
penses, upkeep, twenty-year depreciation, and four percent
interest on the investment.” #

 

 

HEW PATHS T0
RECREATION

SEE/ME

GOLF

COURSE
LOAN
PROGRAMS

Harry C. EckhoFf

24

 

FIVE YEARS AGO

there was prac-
tically no financing
available for golf
ventures. This pic-
ture has changed.
Today, individuals
or groups seeking
financial assistance for the development
of needed recreation facilities for their
communities may find the solution to
their problems through one of the sev-
eral federal government loan programs
now in effect. Among the federal agen-
cies that have financial assistance pro-
grams which may aid in the develop-
ment of outdoor recreation facilities are
the U. S. Department of Agriculture
and Commerce, the Housing and Home
Finance Agency, and the Small Busi-
ness Administration.

The Farmers Home Administration
of the Department of Agriculture, un-
der the Food and Agriculture Act of
1962, is authorized to make loans to

COLONEL ECKHOFF ( USAF Retired) is
director of the Eastern Region, Na-
tional Golf Foundation. This material
is taken from. a paper presented at the
United States Department of Agricul-
ture Turf Crass Field Day Program
at the Agricultural Research Station,

Beltsville, Maryland, August, 1963.

 

rural groups or individual farmers for
shifts in land use. Such shifts may in-
clude the development of recreation fa-
cilities. Department of Agriculture of-
ficials state studies reveal that by 1980
all domestic and greatly expanded
export needs for farm products can be
produced on fifty million fewer acres
than were available for crops in 1959.
During the first year of operation
(fiscal year ending June 30, 1963), the
Farmers Home Administration ap-
proved loans totalling $1,310,390 to
seventeen different rural nonprofit as-
sociations for shifts in land use to rec-
reation purposes. Twelve of the seven-
teen projects approved were for golf
course ventures. States in which golf
course projects were approved are:
Iowa, 3; Maryland, 1; Minnesota, 1;
Mississippi, 1; New York, 1; North
Carolina, 2; South Dakota, 2; Wash-
ington, 1. The remaining five projects
approved were chiefly for recreation
centers featuring swimming pools and
play areas. Loans for individual golf
ventures developed by associations

ranged from $10,000 to $275,000.

'| ‘0 BE ELIGIBLE for such loans, as-
sociations must be operated on a

nonprofit basis and must primarily
serve farmers and rural residents by

RECREATION

   
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
 
  
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

direct use or through economic benefits.
A rural resident is a permanent resident
of a rural area or small community of
not more than twenty-five hundred
pe0ple. Memberships of borrower as-
sociations should include all the bene-
ted people possible and each member
hould have a single vote and a single
share in the organization. The interest
rate varies, but may not exceed five per-
ent, and loans may be made up to
1,000,000. Loans are scheduled for
epayment within the shortest time con-
istent with the borrower’s ability to
ay. The maximum term on all loans is
forty years.

Applications for loans should be
made at local county offices of the
Farmers Home Administration. A De-
partment of Agriculture spokesman
tates there is now widespread interest
hroughout the nation in the depart-
ment’s new loan program. Requests are
on the increase and 1964 should see
many more of these projects approved.

Cities, counties, and states seeking to
cquire “open space” for preservation
from encroaching development may be
eligible for federal aid from the Urban
Renewal Administration of the Housing
and Home Finance Agency. This
has to make
grants from twenty percent to thirty
percent of the purchase price for open-
space land which is to be used for rec-
reation, conservation, scenic, or historic
purposes.

agency authorization

Grants may not exceed twenty per—
cent of the cost of land in a munici-
pality or thirty percent in a regional
(county or metropolitan area or

m
*1
CD
9.3

are in-
volved). The minimum area standard

here several communities

is ten acres. For 1962-63, $15,000,000

was allocated for this program.

MANY STATES also have programs for
outright grants to its municipali-
ties for acquisition of open-space areas.
New York voters have authorized a
$75,000,000 bond issue for acquisition
of open space areas; New Jersey
(Green Acres Program), $60,000,000;
Pennsylvania, $70,000,000; and Ohio,
$25,000,00. The state of New York may
make grants up to seventy-five percent
of the balance of the purchase price of
open-space land which has been ap-
proved for a grant by the Housing and
Home Finance Agency. To illustrate
this point, suppose a county in New
York State was desirous of purchasing

 

land valued at $210,000. The federal
government might contribute thirty per-
cent, or $63,000; the state might con-
tribute seventy—five percent of the re-
mainder, or $110,250. The county’s ac-

tual cost would be only $36,750, or 17.5
percent of the total.

Since land acquired through this~

program may be used for recreation
purposes, it is another means of devel-
oping needed municipal golf facilities.
According to a Housing and Home Fi-
nance Agency representative, this pro-
gram has assisted municipalities in
purchasing existing golf courses in or-
der to save open-space area from en-
croachin g development.

The Area Redevelopment Program,
initiated by the U.S. Department of
Commerce in 1962, is designed to alle-
viate conditions of substantial unem-
ployment in certain economically dis-
tressed areas and, among other things,
encourages the creation of recreation
tourists facilities in locations where
such are deemed feasible. Such a rec-
reation complex might well include golf
courses.

Should a public body ( such as a
county, city, or state) or a local non-
profit corporation have such a project
approved under this program, it might
be eligible for substantial loans for as
long as forty years at an annual interest
rate of 3% percent. In some instances
it might receive a sizeable grant. The
Area Redevelopment Program usually
operates on a county basis, and any
county with a continued six percent un-
employment record for its labor force
may be eligible for assistance.

Commercial profit-motive organiza-
tions also are eligible for consideration
for loans under this program. In this
case, substantial loans may be made for
as long as twenty-five years at four per-
cent interest. During the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1963, Area Redevelop-
ment ofiicials approved forty loans for
projects in twenty states and Puerto

Rico. #

 

HILLORY TOLSON RETIRES

IHillory A. Tolson, assistant director

I - for administration of the National Park
'|Service, retires on December 28 after
I forty-four years of service with the
l Ifederal government, thirty-one of which
v- were with the NPS. Mr. Tolson, a
I [lawyer by profession, entered the NPS
jtl'in 1932, having previously been em-
] loyed by the War Department, the
anama Canal, and the Federal Bureau

' of Investigation. (His brother, Clyde
A. Tolson, is associate director of the

’ ANUARY, 1964

FBI.) Since August 1943, he was assist-
ant director of the NPS and, as such
principal officer in charge of many man-
agement and action programs. Early in
his career, Mr. Tolson compiled the
Laws Relating to the National Park
Service and initiated and developed the
National Park Service Administrative
Manual, forerunners of such manage-
ment aids in government bureaus.

Mr. Tolson received the Cornelius

Pugsley Silver Medal in 1949 for sig-

nificant contributions to the national
park field. In 1962 he was presented
the George Washington University
Alumni Achievement Award for nota-~
ble accomplishments in the field of con-
servation and public service, and in
1959 his alma mater presented him with

its Athletic Hall of Fame Award. On
July 23, 1963, the U.S. Department of

the Interior conferred on Mr.‘ Tolson
its highest honor, the Distinguished.
Service Award.

25

 

 

lilay We Suggest an A AHPERtizer

MEMBERSHIP IN AAHPER

The Association publishes many
books, pamphlets, and articles need-
ed in your own special professional
activities. In addition to these, the
official Association organ, the JOUR-
NAL, communicates policies, philos-

ophy, activities and accomplishments
to its members. The RESEARCH
QUARTERLY presents reports of
original research studies in the fields
of health education, physical educa-
tion, and recreation. With member-
ship in AAHPER, you can choose
materials which most interest you.

Selections Fresh From the Press

HOW WE DO IT GAME BOOK
(revised and expanded)

Recreation leaders are constantly
looking for new ideas to add sparkle
and variety to outdoor recreation.
Here are 200 original games, many
which are variations of old favorites
--One-Basket Basketball, End-Pin
Speedball and Auto Tire Relay. Most
require just a ball or other standard
equipment. Clothbound, 342 p. $3.50

EDUCATION IN AND TOR THE OUTDOORS

Contains recommendations for the
development of future programs . . .
in the outdoors—using nature as a
workshop for learning . . . for the
outdoors—focusing on teaching skills
and new methods to be used. Many
useful suggestions can be found in
the keynote speeches from the Na-
tional Conference on Outdoor Edu-
cation sponsored in 1962 by the
AAHPER Outdoor Education Pro-
ject. 96 p. . . . . . . . . . . . ..-... . $2.00

TWENTIETH CENTURY RECREATION

Discusses how to give form and
meaning to “unstructured leisure,”
the role of the schools in shaping it,
and creative approaches to the study
of emerging concepts about leisure.
This is the work of the Second Na-

tional Conference on School Recrea-
tion, November, 1962. 80 p. .. $1.50

The Last Word——

You r Just Desserts

lET AAHPER WORK FOR YOU!

Learn more about our publications
and the membership program best
suited to your needs by writing—

AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR HEAlTH.
PHYSICAL EDUCATION. AND RECREATION

1201 Sixteenth Street, N. W.
Washington, D. C. 20036

26 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

  

LET ’S
SHARE

A COUNTRY COMMON

A new method of open-space reservation

Kenneth W. Hunt

PROPOSAL to double the amount
A of open space reserved in the

Bryan Park-Glen Helen region
of Ohio has been put forward by the
Committee for a Country Common.
This committee is composed of the rep-
resentatives, plus advisors, of the sev-
eral institutions and agencies owning,
using, or seeking land in that region.
These are Antioch College, the Boy
Scouts, the Girl Scouts, the Ohio Chap-
ter of the Nature Conservancy, the Ohio
Agricultural Extension Service, the
Ohio Division of Parks, the 055.0.
Home, the village of Yellow Springs,
and the Yellow Springs schools. Mem-
bership in the committee is open to
other organizations and property own-
ers in the region who wish to share and
advance its purpose.

The committee seeks funds with
which to purchase either land or con-
servation easements on land. The con-
servation easement is an arrangement
whereby a property owner, such as a
farmer, continues to own his land and
to use it as at present, but sells to some
member of the committee his develop-
ment rights at a price negotiated by the
owner and the easement buyer. The
farmer has thus been paid the develop-
ment or speculative value of his land,
and has accepted for himself and his
successors a restriction on his deed that
the land shall forever remain open.

The effect of this will be a region be-
tween Yellow Springs and Clifton which
will remain open as farm and forest in
spite of the eventual transformation of
adjacent lands to suburbs or other de-
velopment. The property now in owner-
ship of the several members of the com-

 

MR. Hl‘NT is director of Glen Helen,
Antioch College, Yellow Springs, Ohio.

mittee adds up to about eighteen hun-
dred acres. This includes Bryan Park,
Camp Birch, Camp Clifton, Camp
Greene, and Glen Helen, including its
school forest and outdoor education
center. These facilities are used by the
people of many counties through south-
west Ohio, and their managements fore-
see the need to increase the acreage as
the population of southwest Ohio in—
creases. Their aim, therefore, is to re-
serve either by easement or by pur-
chase, enough additional land to double
the present acreage, and make possible
a future combined open space of some
thirty-six hundred acres. Then, from
time to time, as farm families or their
heirs sell their easement lands, the re-
gion will gradually convert from farm
to park and camp uses.

The Committee for a Country Com-
mon believes that its plan contains sev-
eral new features that can serve as
examples for open-space reservation
anywhere, and that its plan will attract
support as a contribution to a national
problem as well as for the local bene-
fits because:

I It is a method whereby all the organ-
izations sharing open-space needs in a
region can work in concert.

0 It permits those owners who do not
want their present ownership and land
use disturbed to continue living as at
present.

I It divides the cost of open-space res-
ervation between the contributors of
today who pay for the easement and
those of the future who will complete
the job by paying for the land.

0 It acquires the speculative values be-
fore they have risen too high, and at the
same time lets the owner convert these
values into cash now with which to in-
vest elsewhere. #-

RECREATION

WWUIEAf

your

_DOORS

How to organize
a community recreation program

for the handicapped

Morton Thompson, Ed. D.

HOUSANDS of handicapped persons residing in com-
Tmunity settings are in dire need of social and recrea-
tion. activity. These include the physically disabled,
mentally ill, and the retarded. Since each individual differs
in the degree of disability, sociability, cultural background,
interests, financial status, and family relationships, the com-
munity should make every effort to steer each handicapped
person into the most suitable recreation program possible.
Some form of community coordination of services should be
established with the recreation department serving as the
core agency of the recreation service to the handicapped.
In the past almost all of the recreation services for the
handicapped have been provided by the hospitals and health
agencies whose sheltered programs provided an excellent
social environment for the group of handicapped, but, un-
fortunately, one that did not prepare the handicapped for
socialization and recreation with nonhandicapped in the
community. One major factor in the lack of adequate rec-
reation programs for the handicapped is that community
recreation departments have not geared their facilities, staff,
and program to the needs of the handicapped citizens until
the past few years, and the number of recreation depart-
ments doing this are comparatively few and scattered on a
nationwide basis. In addition, health and welfare agencies
providing some form of recreation for the handicapped have
specialized in dealing with their specific disabilities and
I made little attempt to relate their programs to the community
resources, other agencies, and to the nonhandicapped.
Community agencies must join forces to coordinate rec-
reation services for the handicapped, to prevent waste and
p over—lapping and to provide adequate techniques and chan-
' nels for the social adjustments of handicapped persons. Rec-
: reation departments can establish a special-services division
a which should be directed by a recreation person experienced

3 DR. THOMPSON is direcitor of the Consulting Service on Rec-
lr reation for the Ill and Handicapped of the National Recrea-
tion Association.

JANUARY, 1964.

 

 PROGRAN[

and trained in work with the handicapped, Whose job it
would be to work with hospitals, health agencies, and other
organizations serving the handicapped. The special-services
division should:

0 Organize an advisory committee of representatives of rec-
reation, health, and hospital organizations.

0 Develop committees to survey the handicapped, their
needs for recreation, resources in the community, et cetera.
0 Arrange for the adjustment of certain facilities of the rec-
reation department to include ramps, rails, wide doors, et
cetera, to make these facilities accessible to the handicapped.
0 Conduct research in 'this phase of recreation.

0 Develop literature based upon program results.

0 Work closely with hospital recreation and health agency
recreation personnel.

0 Handle publicity and public relations.

PROGRAMS should be developed to meet the needs of all
the handicapped with emphasis on:
0 Inclusion of those handicapped who are capable of par—
ticipation in the normal on-going recreation programs.
0 A specialized program in a community center to meet the
needs of those persons too handicapped to participate in the
normal programs. These handicapped should be observed
in activity and referred when, and if, ready into normal rec-
reation programs.
0 Programs for the severely disabled and homebound.

In the large community it might be advisable to organize
a “Community Council on Recreation for the Handicapped”
with membership open to all agencies—hospitals, health
agencies, welfare agencies, nursing homes, and recreation
agencies. To implement and carry out the programs and
professional activities of such a council, responsibility, if
possible, should be placed in the hands of the community
recreation department unless the council members see fit
to share the costs of hiring a professional recreation person
to conduct the activities of the council. W here a good special-

27

services division has been established, the advisory commit-
tee to the division might serve in the same capacity as a com-
munity council on recreation for the handicapped.

THE COUNCIL can be effective only if it has a staff mem-
ber available for full-time service to carry out the coun-

cil’s program. The “Council on Recreation for the Handi-

capped” can:

0 Act as an advisory agency to all recreation programs for

the handicapped. I

0 Assist in the planning and conduct of program activities.

0 Act as a resource agency.

0 Assist in the development of a recreational referral pro-

cess for discharged hospital patients into community rec-

reation programs near their homes.

0 Assist in referral of handicapped persons from their

homes, health agencies, and other places into community

recreation programs.

0 Assist in the development of research and publicity.

COMMUNITIES without a recreation department, or where
the department is not actively involved with the handi-
capped, must use another approach. Here the program must
be initiated by interested persons and agencies in the com-
munity. The plan of action could follow this suggested se-
quence:

0 Motivation of several community leaders followed by a
meeting to discuss the recreation needs of the handicapped.
0 Meeting with local agencies to discuss the problem and
steps necessary to solve the problem.

0 Involvement of recreation department or agency provid-
ing recreation if there is one in the community.

0 Formation of some type of community council or com-
mittee on recreation for the handicapped.

0 Surveying the handicapped in the community to deter-
mine who they are and what their needs and interests for rec-
reation are.

0 Surveying community facilities and equipment available.

0 Development of a fund-raising plan to support a program
and staff person.

0 Assignment of an experienced individual to conduct the
program. If a volunteer is assigned, this person must have
the time, equivalent experience and education of a recre-
ation professional, and the leadership ability to carry out
the program. A professional recreation worker is preferred.

0 Planning the recreation program.
0 Recruitment and training of volunteers.

0 Conducting the program.

A WORKSHOP and demonstration on recreation for the
handicapped should be conducted at the beginning of
the program. This type of program provides much impetus
and motivation. All local interested parties should be in-
volved in some phase of the workshop. Assistance in the
workshop can be gotten from state and local health agencies,
such as the National Society for Crippled Children and
Adults, and from district representatives of the National
Recreation Association. The national office of the National
Recreation Association also provides leadership and assist-
ance in matters of this nature.

The program should start on a small scale with, for ex-
ample, some slightly handicapped persons referred into the
regular recreation program. Then, a recreation center
could be organized for those handicapped to the extent that
from this beginning the program could gradually be expand-
ed to center seasonal programs, trips, camping, and activities
for the homebound.

It is recommended that persons with different disabilities-
should be grouped together and as much programing for
the handicapped with the nonhandicapped be included if
possible. We are dealing with human beings and not disabil-

ities. This is the key. #

 

VARSITY AND VARIETY

Washington, DC. An unusual group is
the retarded blind glee club which does

an amazing job with a variety of songs.

THE RETARDED play varsity football
at the Mansfield Training School
in Mansfield Depot, Connecticut. The
school for two thousand retarded chil-
dren conducts an excellent recreation
and athletic program under the admin-
istration of its youthful superintendent,
Francis Kelly. The school has fine
facilities and provides a variety of ex-
periences both on the grounds and in
the community.

Under the direction of its recreation
director, James Millo, the Mansfield
School organized a varsity football team
which actually played a six-game sched-
ule this year against regular high-school

28

junior varsity teams. The boys in the
team play the game with their own
quarterback calling the plays and run-
ning the team. The team won two of
five games this year with the three loses
all close scores. The program includes
all sports and a well-rounded recreation
program. Facilities include fields, swim-
ming pool, and a beautiful school which
has gymnasiums, auditorium, and rec-
reation rooms.

THE SCHOOL has a fine band which
played for the participants at the

1963 National Association for Retarded
Children’s National C o n fe r e n c e in

This group is a magnificent example of
“bringing out the potential ability of
an extremely multi-handicappedgroups
with proper leadership, attention and
human relations.”

The Mansfield School is conducting
a teenage program in Hartford where
the young adults live and gain experi-
ence in job training and social graces
in the community setting. Some reach
the stage where they become gainfully
employed and in many instances mar-
ried.

This is an excellent example of con-
tinuity of training from the institution
to the community. #

RECREATION

   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
 
 
   
  
   
 

MARY F. MARONEY

ANEUVERING ON ICE is compar-
M able to dog-paddling. Nearly
everyone can do it; but this is
not skating, anymore than dog-paddling
is swimming. Facilities for ice skating
and interest in skating are increasing,
with over a thousand rinks in the coun-
try. Many more are in the planning or
construction stage, many are owned by
schools and colleges. Skating is one of
the fastest growing sports in the coun-
try today. Rink owners and managers
are more than willing to cooperate with
the schools and colleges and set up in-
struction classes on whatever basis the
school boards desire. I
Those who have learned the joys of
figure skating contend that all skaters
should be taught the basic fundamen-
tals; that schools and colleges should
have standards and requirements as
they do for swimming. Many Canadian
professional hockey skaters have passed
their first, second, and even higher fig-
ure tests. ( See “Scientihc Hockey,”
RECREATION, May 1963, Page 242.) As
a result, they know the various turns
by the correct terminology and can do
them in correct body position, thus
never losing time or speed, so essential
to the game. A figure skater who has
passed his first or second test can be
taught stick handling, and the athletic,
good hockey player could quite easily
master the disciplined movements of
figures. With these skills, there would
'not only be more and better skaters,
.even more thrilling to watch, but when
the diploma is won and the team activ—
ity over, the players have a sport which

they can take up again and enjoy for
the rest of their lives.

.MRS. MARONEY is chairman of the
School and College Figure Skating

Committee of the United Figure Skating

'A ssociation.
U

ANUARY, 1964

Instruction and a knowledge of fun-
damentals are essential in all sports for
continued participation and enjoyment.
Skills learned when young are easy to
acquire, but they also may be resumed
(usually with ease) later in life. It is
natural, easy, and necessary for the
speed and hockey skater to bend for-
ward, but when he turns to figure skat-
ing with his family, at the age of twenty-
five or older, he learns to his sorrow,
that, in spite of his tremendous power
and glide, it is hard to skate erect and
that he does not have the time nor

 

Figure skating is glamorous and dramatic. These
Highland Iassies are members of the Sun Valley,
Idaho, Figure Skating Club, and do flings on ice.

money to discipline his body in order
to learn the figures and dances he now
wishes he knew.

Despite the fact that there are rinks
on campus or near many schools and
colleges and being built by parks and
municipalities, figure skating is consid-
ered an individual sport and is not be-
ing taught except to those who demand

PROGRAM

 

FIGURE SKATING: A Lifetime Activity

it. They are forced to look out of the
school for instruction, competition, and
companionship. Figure skating stands
today where swimming stood forty years
ago, when students had to hire buses to
take them to the nearest pool in order
to practice.

FIGURE SKATING is a glamorous, pow-

erful, beautiful sport. To perform
the fundamentals—stroking, turns,
steps, stops—in balance and control, '

: takes discipline of thc body and concen-

tration of the mind. It is an activity
which nearly anyone  assuming that he
has a good fitting pair of boots) can
do. This is a family sport for both sexes
and all ages. It is a sport where the par-
ticipant sets his own pace. It is strenu—
ous or mild, an individual or a group
activity, and it brings refreshment and
revitalization in just one short hour. It
is a social activity and yet one that does
not always necessitate arrangement for
a partner or an opponcnt.

In these days of great stress and
strain, educational leaders have an ab-
ligation to train the bodies as well as
the minds of their students for continu~
ing activity. To work well at one’s desk,
for health and happiness, a skilled ex-
ercise is added fuel for physical as well
as mental alertness. The same body
positions and control apply to figure
skating that apply to similar activities,
such as tennis, tumbling, jumping, et
cetera, except that in skating it is done
on a blade, on the inner and outer edge
on each foot, and forward and back-
ward on each foot.

Recreation departments, schools, and
colleges should offer instruction in this
healthful, invigorating sport, not just
as a buildup for competition, but for
what this skill can mean to the indi—
vidual for the rest of his or her life. 

29

RECREATION
WEIGHT TRAINING

With careful leadership,

this can be a valuable activity
in your physical-fitness program . . .

Roben Cook
S HOULD weight training and weight

lifting be included in a recreation

program? How does one go about
getting the leadership, equipment, and
place to conduct such a program? What
are the values of such a program and
how do they fit in the recreation pic-
ture? Who benefits by its inclusion in
the recreation program?

To answer these questions, it will be
well to define terms at the outset.
“Weight training” is a system of exer-
cises using barbells, dumbbells, and
various apparatus described later. These
exercises are done either for general
well-being or to supplement training for
another sport. “Weight lifting” is lift-
ing of maximum weights on a competi-
tive basis.

The obvious strength and health-
building qualities of weight training
and weight lifting alone are enough to
justify inclusion in a recreation pro-
gram. However, football and basket-
ball coaches across the country have
embraced weight training, and promi-
nent athletes, such as golfer Frank
Stranahan, pole-vaulter Bob Richards,
and shot-putter Gary Grubner, advocate
weight training. A weight-training pro-
gram should be no less successful in a
recreation program than it has been in
the nation’s YMCA’s for the past forty
years. Competitive weight lifting will
be a natural outgrowth of weight train-
ing in many cases.

Leadership for a weight program
should be a relatively easy matter. To-
day, thousands of men have had experi-
ence in weight training. A recreation
leader should be most concerned with

MR. COOK is superintendent of recrea-
tion in Belleville, New Jersey.

30

the character of the leader he selects.
He must be a person capable of encour-
aging those who come out for the pro-
gram. He must be a person who stays
abreast of modern training methods.
He must be ready to handle the role of
substitute father, disciplinarian, and
friend to the many boys who will come
to his gym with needs other than physi-
cal. In short, your leader must be a
good recreation man over and above
being a lifter.

EQUIPMENT may be readily pur-
chased from any of several manu-
facturers. The investment in weights is
sound because they are nearly inde-
structible. Barbell plates can also be
made by filling with cement old pulley
wheels which can be picked from a
junkyard. Old steel drums can be cut
off and filled with cement to provide
inexpensive weights. Some iron plates
will be necessary to provide the adjust-
ability of the weights. Other gym equip-
ment, such as squat-racks, overhead pul-
leys, benches, situp boards, can be made
with just a little effort and imagination.
There would be nothing that the nor-
mal maintenance department could not
build. It might even be better if those
who are going to use the gym were to
build the equipment.

The place for the gym will of course
vary according to what is available. It
would be desirable to have about-thirty
square feet of floor space per lifter as
a minimum. Successful lifting pro-
grams have been conducted in field-
houses, under a stadium, in a play-
ground shelter house, in school base-
ments, et cetera, so don’t be discouraged
if regular gym space is not available.

 

The author hoists 436 pounds!

ONE OF THE FIRST things one dis-
covers after starting a weight-
training program is that, in addition to
the athletically inclined, there is a tend-
ency for the quiet, shy types of young
men to gravitate to this activity. These
participants do not ordinarin turn out
for major or team sports. As these
withdrawn individuals continue their
training, they may be observed picking
up self-confidence, then beginning to
indulge in the horseplay that goes with
a good gym atmosphere, and finally
swinging into the competitive lifting
and the lifting exhibitions. Many trou-
bled youngsters will work off aggres-
sions on the weights and develop many
good habits such as self-discipline, de-
termination, working together, plan-
ning a training program, and the setting
and achieving of goals. All of these
values carry over and apply to living
as well as to sport.

Weight training has been used with
great success to supplement football,
basketball, pole vaulting, shot put, dis-
cus, sprinting, tumbling, wrestling.
swimming; in fact, there is scarcely a
sport with which weight training is not
compatible. However, the training must
be varied according to the goals de-
sired. Detailed explanation of all of
the various training methods involved
would be too lengthy for this article.
Let it sufiice to say that the leader
should know his ground before entering .
this phase of weight training. Having
a weight-training program to offer willl
give the one-Sport athlete the means to
stay fit during his off-season.

For the older participant, especially
the sedentary worker, weight training

offers an efficient way to get a great deal

RECREATon

of conditioning with a little expenditure
of time and money and a minimum of
bother. The fact that a man can con-
tinue his weight training throughout his
entire life is another value and great
reason for presenting this program to
the young.

M osr IMPORTANT to the recreation
professional are the benefits a
weight-training program offers the to-
tal recreation program. First, it per-
mits the recreation program to reach
participants it might not touch other-
wise. It is an inexpensive activity and
one that will swell the annual attend-
ance figures. It does not take a great
deal of space for the number of people
who can take part. Most of those who
train on weights work out three times
a week. In the town of Belleville, lifters
divide into four groups. Belleville has

 

It’s a Gift!

Continued from Page 20

 

Alverthorpe Park in Abington Town-
ship, Pennsylvania, by Lessing J. Ro-
senwald, donor of the park’s original
fifty-four acres. This latest gift ex-
presses Mr. Rosenwald’s delight in the
way his first gift was developed ( see
“Park Provides a Living Monument,”
RECREATION, September 1963).

0 A jet-spray decorative fountain, to
beautify the sunken garden in the heart
of Houston. The gift of Mr. and Mrs.
John W. Mecom, the three-tiered foun-
tain will cost approximately $100,000,
and will have an outer circle of 110 jets
that will spray inward to an eight-foot
height, an inner circle of nozzles that
will jet water vertically to a twenty-foot
height, and in the center will be three
huge jets, one to rise forty feet and two,
about thirty-five feet.

0 From the Avalon Foundation of New
York, $300,000 to Nature Conservancy,
District of Columbia, for land acquisi-
tions. ‘

o A watershed as protection for farest

in Humboldt Redwoods State Park, Cal-
ifornia, from a $250,000 gift of the
Rockefeller Brothers Fund to the J ack-

son Hole Preserve.
0 For construction of a civic garden
center in Audubon Park, Memphis,

JANUARY, 1964

 

a Monday, \Vednesday, Friday after-
noon group, and another group on the
evenings of those days. The third group
is a Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday after-
noon group, and the fourth group trains
on those evenings. With this arrange-
ment, Belleville’s little gym, under the
stadium, is able to handle twenty-five
persons at a time or three hundred per
week. Annual attendance runs right
around the ten thousand mark, this in
a gym sixteen-by-forty-eight feet, on
which a total of $108.00 has been spent,
and which is maintained by the par-
ticipants. One last benefit to the recrea-
tion program is the fact that many of
the participants grow up in the pro-
gram, staying active on into adult life.

It is recognized that many recreation
departments already have successful
weight-training programs. This dis-
course is offered in the hope of moving
those who have not tried it. #

LARGEST IMPORTER

of Judo and Kgfge Equipment
JUDO-

KARATE
SUITS

Husky, long-wearing “Lion Brand"
and “Victory Cup Brand” Judo and
Karate suits. Liberal discounts for
quantity orders. Complete library of
Judo, Karate and Aikido books. Also
emblems and jewelry.

Write for complete price list folder.

9;

HONDA

ASSOCIATES , INC.

Dept. R, 50 West 47th Street
N.Y., N.Y. 10036/Clrcle 5-0365

FREE

DIRECT PRICE
CATALOG _ ~ _
QUALlT

012/” 0?

FOLDNG TABLES

Thousands of parks, schools, clubs, churches
and other organizations save money with our
direct factory prices on folding tables, chairs,
risers, etc. Send today for FREE color catalog
on all our rugged. institutional equipment.

Tennessee, $175,000 from the Gold-
smith Foundation.
0 To the Children’s Zoo Committee of
Connecticut, $50,000 from the Hartford
Foundation for Public Giving.
o For the big cats at the City Park Zoo,
a new feline house, to be constructed
by the Denver Zoological Foundation
with a $400,000 grant from the Arthur
E. Johnson Foundation of Colorado.
0 Lakeshore land for public use, in '\
Paradise Point, New Hampshire, to be i , ,
acquired with $50,310 from the Spauld- wagging ‘_ 
Arch—no toot 'i.
or knee 
interference x,

 

   
 
 
    

\‘

           
   

ing-Potter Charitable Trusts, New
Hampshire.

0 A three-year grant of $30,000 for a
project to maintain and expand public
recreation areas, given to the Welfare
Council of Metropolitan Chicago by the
Wieboldt Foundation of Illinois. _

o A citizenship workshop for rural
youth leaders set up with $10,000 given
by the Reader’s Digest Foundation,
New York, to the National 4-H Founda-
tion, Washington, D.C.

0 To expand its program and maintain
current activities, a three-year grant of
$30,000 to the Police Athletic League
of New York by the James Foundation
of New York.

Table and Chair
Storage trucks

0 For tips on how to "attract" such 'i mum Partitions

donations, see “Public Gifts,” by Jo-

seph E. Curtis, Recreation, February
l963.—Ed.

Round and Square tables

 Newdirect
:e ' price eel-er
. catateg. 40 pages in
a!!! Seat! tedayiwdwmw

whum............_m._._ -w“

THE MONROE C0.

18] Church Street
Colfax, Iowa

'\

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 31

0 A PERSON who has never been on
T skis before, skiing appears to be
a thrilling, romantic, invigorat-
ing sport-w-whjch it is! You don’t have
to be a superhuman athlete to ski prop-
erly. The very young and the very old
ski with great enthusiasm. Skiing is
one of the very few sports in which the
entire family can participate at the same
time.

In skiing, an ounce of prevention can
avoid an avalanche of disaster. Even
though you are properly clothed and
equipped, are in good physical condi-
tion, and have studied up on skiing and
had some instruction—you are still ac-
cident-prone unless a healthy respect for
what you are doing on the hill is a part
of your “skiing makeup.”

Man has a natural tendency to want
to excel in any sport or activity in which
he participates, and, since movement is
an essential part of skiing, it is not un-
common for a person to want to go
faster than he is capable of controlling
himself. You will see people on the hill
going very fast and in good form, and
it is quite natural to want to imitate
these “hotshots”—but take it easy!
These people have probably been skiing
for quite a few years and have excellent
control.

Skis come in different lengths, flex'i-
bilities, and materials. A short person
uses a ski of different length than that
used by a tall person; a heavy person
needs a ski of different dimension than
a light person. Ski poles are necessary
for balance, executing a turn, and to as-
sist in walking. The binding that se-
cures you to the ski should be of a type
referred to as a safety binding. Since
skiing is a sport which defies gravity,
there are times when you will fall. This
is particularly true as you are develop-
ing your skills, when you feel it is, for
the most part, desirable that your boot
comes free from your ski. If this does
not happen, you might break or strain
your leg. A safety binding prOperly
adjusted can prevent this from happen-
ing. If your ski does come off, you
don’t want it flying down the hill and

—___—

MR. SIEGEL is chairman of the safety

committee of the National Ski Areas
Association. This material was pre-

sented at the 1963 National Safety
Congress.

32

 

SK]
SAFE!

Safety pointers
for the
novice skier

Edward B. Siegel

 

running into another person. There-
fore, a safety or Arlberg strap is rec-
ommended that attaches to your boots
and skis. Sunglasses are also recom-

 

mended to prevent undue eye strain and
help visibility.

Physical conditioning prior to the ski
season and during the winter is of ut-
most importance. Statistics have proven
that being out of shape physically is an
excellent way to Hirt with danger on
the mountain. If you are in an occupa-
tion which requires you to use your legs
to a great degree, the chances of your
hurting yourself are much less than a
“desk worker.”

Since a great many people who par-
ticipate in skiing are “desk workers,”
how can they condition themselves for
skiing? If you are a student, your an-
swer is in competitive sports or in a
physical-education class as a part of
your curriculum. Your physical educa-
tion instructor can also guide you to a
sound program of exercises away from
class. If you are not a student, keep
yourself in shape by participating in
sports such as volleyball, tennis, soft-
ball, handball, and golf (without an
electric cart). If you don’t have the
time or the inclination for other sports,
then acquire a program of home exer-
cises and do them diligently.

There are some eight hundred ski
areas in North America, and a great
many of them having ski schools. Natu-
rally, some are better than others, but,
for the most part, any of them can help
you along the initial steps. Not only
will the instruction help you in learning
the sport faster and with greater effi-
ciency, but it will mean safer skiing for
you and the other people on the hill.

A variety of techniques are taught
in America and, if you are going to
different areas for instruction, this can
be confusing. Fortunately, there is a
group of ski instructors in the country
that are making great strides in unify-
ing a standard technique and method of
instruction. The name of this group is
the Professional Ski

America, and they teach the American

Instructors of

technique.

Any good ski-school instructor will
stress the importance of control and of
skiing within the limits of your skills.
As your skills get better, you can ski
faster with an equal amount of control.
\Vork hard at learning the proper tech-
niques in the beginning, and you’ll have
more fun—in a safe manner.

Have fun. Ski safe! #

RECREATION

m_r

SIZING:

through
IH$UWNRY' j

Russell McKee

HE SKI is brother to the snowshoe.
T Both are “devices attachable to
the feet that enable the wearer
to travel on snow.” Both came into be-
ing somewhere in central Asia at least
five to six thousand years ago. Present
knowledge of early skis and snowshoes
does not indicate which was developed
first, but, in their primitive form, both
the snowshoe and the ski were about
the same shape and served about the
same purpose. The difference was that
the snowshoe was probably constructed
of a branch bent into a circle, tied with
thongs, and crosslaced with other
branches. This flimsy contraption was
then tied to the foot with more branches.
The early ski was constructed of a
plank-shaped piece or pieces of wood
about the same shape as the circular
snowshoe, and was likewise attached to
the feet with thongs.

Then the ski took its own course of
development, while the snowshoe went
off in quite the opposite direction. This
is both figuratively and geographically
true, for while both the ski and snow-
shoe were born in central Asia, the
snowshoe was soon carried eastward
across Siberia, through Alaska, and
down into all the snowy reaches of
North America. Here it found its home,
was developed through hundreds of
styles, and became a true characteristic
of our North American Indian culture.

The ski ourneyed westward from its
Asian birthplace and began a parallel,
though quite different, development in

 

Digested with permission from Michi-

gan Conservation, published by the

Michigan State Department of Conser-
vation, Lansing.

JANUARY, 1964

Scandinavia, Europe, and northern Rus-
sia. As the snowshoe became a charac-
teristic of the North American Indian
culture, so the ski has become a part of
that Eurasian part of the world. So,
starting in central Asia four to five
thousand years ago, the modern ski be-
gan its slow evolution into the highly
developed form we know today. It
passed through many changes in design
and made good use of certain ideas long
since forgotten. Scholars have divided
the development of the ski of the Scan-
dinavian-Russian area into two basic
designs: the Arctic and the Southern.

THE Arctic-type plank snowshoe, or
early ski, is probably the older of
the two, and it extended its range across
northern Siberia and down into Swe-
den, where one specimen, the Kalv-
trask ski, was found and has been

dated 2000 BC, the end of the Neolithic
period. This ski is a Hat, plank-like af-

fair with a planed underside, a footrest

level with the upper surface of the ski,
and a pointed toe and squared heel.
The toe was curled upward only slightly.
This ski was attached to the foot by
thongs which passed through two pairs
of holes cut up-and-down through the
thickness of the ski. These holes were

 

A
II III-- .

‘III III'
II-III- III...-

I
‘
§
I
I
I
I
V
A
I.

III; ‘I I' III.
IIII'

III-s

 

RECREATION A

DIGEST

connected on the underside of the ski
by grooves so the thongs could lie flatly
against the wood and not interfere with
the sliding action of the ski.

The southern-type ski is found in a
more restricted range in Scandinavia,
Europe, and west-central Europe. The
range goes west into Norway but does
not extend as far north and east as does
the range of the Arctic ski, but what it
lacks in range is made up in diversity
It is apparently a
younger ski than the Arctic type, and
probably, as it developed, it pushed the
Arctic shoe out of this central area. It
is the direct ancestor of our modern
racing-type ski now being seen annually
in increasing numbers on every moun-
tain, hill, rise, and gentle incline in our
country.

and decoration.

THE EARLIEST southern-type ski yet
discovered is one found near Hot-
ing, Sweden. Like the Arctic Kalv-
trask ski, it was used about 2000 BC.
Both its upper and under sides were
planed smooth. Like all Southern-type
skis, it has a raised footrest differing
therein from the Arctic types which do
not. In this case, the footrest was in-
dented from the edge and probably had
side ridges of wood built upward above
the footrest. These wooden
fitted with thongs served about the same
purpose as the raised, wedge-type metal
clamps in use today, except that the

“rails”

wooden variety were easily broken, and
so were soon replaced with another

This later

style involved an even more sharply

form of foot attachment.

raised footrest, so there would be room
to pass the attachment thong horizon-

33

 

PRENTICE-HALL'S
RECREATION BOOKS

Community Recreation: A

Guide To Its Organization,

Third Edition

by Harold D. Meyer, University of North
Carolina, and Charles K. Brightbill, U niver-
sity of Illinois. This book provides an intro—
duction to the study of organized recreation
in the United States and Canada. It is a
general guide for professional recreation
personnel, as well as a reference and source
book for community and civic leaders.
groups, and organizations. Recreation is
treated and interpreted in its broadest possi-
ble sense. The book includes a short histori-
cal background and a general theoretical in-
terpretation of organized recreation. It also
stresses local public recreation because of
the growing, widespread interest and the
enormous demand for information about it.

January 1964, approx. 512 pages, Price
$7.95

Outdoor Education

by Julian “l. Smith, Michigan State Univer—
sity; Hugh Masters, University of Georgia;
Reynold E. Carlson, Indiana University;
and George W. Donaldson, Tyler Public
Schools, Texas. Describing a host of suc-
cessful programs, the authors give a broad
interpretation to outdoor education. It will
enrich and enhance the traditional teaching
methods, improve the learning process, and
add interest to the material taught. Empha~
sis lS given to the intrinsic educational value
of the outdoors itself. A substantial body
of research augments the sections that show
why outdoor education should be made part

of every American’s education. 1963, 322
pages, Price $5.95

lntramurals: Their Organiza-

tion and Administration

by Louis E. \Ieans, Associate Executive
Secretary of the American Association for
Health, Physical Education and Recreation.
This book drives straight to practical solu-
t1_ons. It offers a complete treatment of prin-
c_1ples, philosophies and administrative prac-
t1ces concerned with a broad and extensive
program. of intramurals. It contains scores
of practical and unique features that have
made certaln programs in the nation stand

out as models for others. 1963, 403 pages,
Price $6.25

FREE USE FOR 10 DAYS

1
|
|
l
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|

Dept. CJREC, Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey

Please send me, for lO-days free trial. a copy
of the book(s) checked below. At the end of I
the free-trial period, I will either send you
my check for the price of the book(s), plus
postage and insurance costs, or just return I

I "t
Prentice-Hall, Inc., Box 903 I
|

I

the book(s) and owe nothing. I
D Community Recreation, 3rd Edition— I
57.95 I

I: Outdoor Education—$5.95
[I lntramurals: Their Organization and I
Administration—$6.25 I
Name . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I
(Please print) I
Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . , . . . . . . I
City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..State....Zip.....I

SA VE: If you send remittance with your I
order, we pay all postage and insurance I
chanson: same return privilege; refund guar-
anteed.

34 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

3%,. 

 

ln the Laurentian Mountain winter sports playground north of Montreal, crass-country trail skiing
is equally as popular as downhill running and iumping. Cross-country skis are narrower and lighter.

tally through the width of the ski.

The Hoting specimen has evidence
of these raised side rails, and it also has
a horizontal hole drilled through the
footrest, indicating that some poor Neo-
lithic Swede got tired of repairing his

breakable wooden side rails and just.

drilled a hole through the ski to attach
it to his snow-numbed feet. Like mod-
ern skis, the Hating specimen has a
pointed toe and squared heel.

A later example, the Bothnian, was
a very handsome example dating from
1000 AD, a time when this type appears
to have been common in Sweden. It is
a fairly short ski, having a slightly
arched appearance similar to modern
types. The footrest is raised and in-
dented from the edges of the ski, and
has a depression where a moccasin-clad
foot can rest comfortably. This Both-
nian-style ski also has a horizontal hole
for a thong attachment. but its most
interesting features are the highly de-
veloped ornamentation carved into the
toe and the heel. Both toe and heel are
pointed but the toe has pronounced up-
ward curl, unlike the earlier styles but
similar to modern skis.

Finally, the Central Nordic ski, or
modern type, dates from 1500-1600 AD,
and this is a narrow ski. The underside
is scored with longitudinal grooves,
similar to modern racing skis, but these
grooves might have been in various
shapes along the length of the ski. These

were presumably to give track, much
as the keel of a sailboat keeps the boat
from sliding sideways.

As for ski-poles, these are children
of the snowshoe staff, and the snowshoe
staff is the descendent of the walking
staff, used by humans from the earliest
times both for personal defense and for
help over rough terrain, or again for
use when carrying heavy loads. The
snowshoe staff itself is not as old as the
snowshoe but rather derived recently.
As used with skis in Scandinavia, the
single pole was about eight feet long,
had the snow wheel as the base, and was
fitted with a sharpened point of bone.

TODAY, there are three main types of

skis: downhill, jumping and cross-
country. The downhill ski normally has
a single groove along the underside.
Jumping skis are longer, thicker, and
heavier and ordinarily have' three
grooves in the bottom. They have no
steel edges. Cross-country skis are nar.
router and lighter in weight than down-
hill skis and often are made of woods
other than hickory. They have one

groove but no metal edges.

Skis were developed as a form of in-
dispensable survival equipment for
northern peoples. Now they are mainly
used for recreation, but modern skis are
not very different from those used by
our ancestors so many thousands of

years ago. #1:

RECREATION

PEOPLE
IN THE RE CREATION

NEWS

John R. Branca,
commissioner
of recreation in
Mount Vernon,
New York, was re-

with a citation of
the Westchester
Chapter New York State Association
for Retarded Children in appreciation
of his public-spirited assistance in pro-
moting a better understanding of, and

sympathy for, the problems of the men-
tally retarded.

 

The Mount Vernon department, one
of the oldest municipal agencies in the
country, was the first city to take advan-
tage of a state referendum allowing mu-
nicipalities to use tax funds for recrea-
tion purposes. It has operated a recrea-
tion program for the mentally retarded
for the past ten years. A special recrea-
tion program for the blind is also spon-
I sored by the department.

cently presented '

R a y In 0 n d S .
Kiml) ell, wh o
started as a fifty-
cent-an-hour direc-
tor on the S an
Francisco play-
grounds and wound

 

up as the general
manager of the city’s Recreation and
Park Department, has retired after
thirty-six years of service. As general
manager, Mr. Kimbell administered a
$10,000,000 budget and directed the
activities of 930 full-time employes
(1300 during the, summer months). As
he looks back, Mr. Kimbell is proud of
two things: the city’s nine free neigh-
borhood swimming pools and his de-
partment’s integrated employment pol-
icy. “Every color, nationality, race, and
creed is represented,” he said, “and we
have yet to have any trouble. Our men
are spread about on seniority and abil-
ityonly.”

 

Jeane M. Wol-
cott, a senior at
Kent State Univer-
sity, was awarded
the Ohio Parks and
Recreation Associ-
ation’s 1963 - 64
Scholarship at its
annual conference in Akron in Novem-
ber. The award, the first given by the
association, was for leadership, scholar-
ship and character. Miss Wolcott has
been a coach, director at a Girl Scout
camp, playground SUpervisor, training
camp counselor, and waterfront super-

 

visor. She has served in the Women’s
Army Corps as company commander,
personnel officer, and recruiting oflicer.

Edward W.

Bradley, superin-
intendent of recre-
ation in Milltown,
New Jersey, has
been awarded the
outstanding physi-
cal fitness leader-
ship award in New Jersey under the na-
tionwide program sponsored by the
US. Junior Chamber of Commerce and
the Standard Packaging Corporation.
Mr. Bradley was selected from 425
teachers, doctors, recreation personnel,
and laymen from all over the state in

 

GEORGIA
The 19th Annual Conference of the

Georgia Recreation Society was held at
Callaway Gardens in Pine Mountain
during November. Charles K. Bright-
bill, head of the department of recrea-
tion and park administration at the
University of Illinois, served as confer-
ence consultant and spoke on two offi-
cial occasions. At the opening session,
his tepic was “Self-Fulfillment in Lei-

sure,” and his second t0pic was “Rec-
reation and the Public Domain.”

New oflicers of the society are: Presi-
dent, James Goff, Moultrie; President-
Elect, Claude Lewis, Warner Robins;
First Vice-President, John Williams,
DeKalb County; Second Vice-Presi-
dent, Richard Lane, East Point; Treas-
urer, Jesse L. Mathews, Robins Air

JANUARY, 1964

STATE SOCIETY NEWS

Force Base; Secretary, Betty McCon-
nell, recreation consultant, American
Red Cross; members of the board of
directors, Carl Hager, Savannah, and

Robert Dodd, College Park.

:-1

OHIQ

New officers of the
Ohio Parks and
Recreation Associ-
ation are President,
Carl F. Fuerst, su-
perintendent of
parks and recrea-
tion, Cuyahoga
Falls; President-
Elect, Melvin J. Rebholz, public rela-
tions director, Hamilton County Park
District; First Vice-President, Ray-
mond G. McCartney, superintendent of

 

Carl F. F uerst

parks and recreation, Wooster; Second
Vice-President, Mary J 0 Schroder, rec-
reation supervisor, Cincinnati; Third
Vice-President, Kenneth J. McElroy,
landscape architect, Ohio Division of
Parks; Secretary-Treasurer, C. F. Tom-
linson, superintendent of parks and
recreation, Salem.

VIRGINIA

Cecil Gilkerson, director of parks and
recreation in Harrisonburg, is the new
president of the Virginia Recreation So-
ciety. Other new oflicers include Harry
Knight, first vice-president; Fred Wil-
liams, second vice-president; Connie
Rollison, treasurer; Myrtle Patterson,
Donald Wingo, and Kenneth Burnett,
board members; and Howard Mast, ex-
officio.

35

recognition of the wide range Of pro-
grams he has administered, originated,
and conducted in physical fitness on a
local, county, and state level.

Dr. Wesley A. Young, supervisor at
Grifiith Park Zoo in Los Angeles, has
been named to head the vital Importa-
tion-Exportation Quarantine Health and
Welfare Committee of the American
Association of Zoological Parks and
Aquariums. The committee’s functions
include acting as liaison with the vet-
erinary profession and setting guide-
lines and standards for transportation
of zoo animals. Dr. Young has also
been reelected for the seventh time as

treasurer of the Southern California
Veterinary Medical Association.

Daniel L. Flaherty, general superin-
tendent of the Chicago Park District
since 1960 and a park district employe
for forty-three years, retired as of No-
vember 17. He is succeeded by Erwin
Weiner. Mr. Flaherty began his park
career as a junior clerk in Chicago’s old
South Park system in 1921. When the
Chicago Park District was created in
1934, he was named assistant auditor.
As general superintendent, Mr. Fla-
herty worked on contracts for the sec-
ond Grant Park underground garage
and the construction of the outdoor
children’s zoo in Lincoln Park.

Mr. Weiner has been with the park
district for thirty-four years, beginning
He has
been instrumental in the development of
day camp and unior football programs.
He originated the concept of the dis-
trict’s Traveling ZOO and was active in

as a playground instructor.

the organization of the Zoological and
Planetarium Societies. He has also been
active on behalf of harbor development
and improved service on Chicago’s
lakefront.

O O C

Harry E. Smith has been appointed
senior supervisor for the Baltimore Bu-
reau of Recreation Street Club Project.
For the past three years, Mr. Smith has

been a detached worker for the bureau
and the Health Welfare Council Of the

Baltimore area. Concentrating on boys
already in trouble with police and
society, and those headed in that direc-
_ tion, he has been directing the energies

36

of delinquent youth into useful chan-
nels. His ofiice has been in alleys, pool-
rooms, and street corners in depressed
areas in northwest and east Baltimore.
The demonstration project was made
possible by a grant from the Play-
ground Athletic League Endowment
Fund. The extent to Which the project
has achieved community acceptance has
been shown by the approval by the Bal-
timore City Board of Estimates and City
Council of a plan to incorporate the
service into the regular operations of
the Bureau of Recreation. (For more
on delinquency programs and detached-
worker projects, see “Providence Takes

a Hand,” RECREATION, October 1963;
“Ripe far Trouble,” November 1962;
“The Unacceptables,” January 1962;
“Agency Standards and Teenage Be-
havior,” January 1961; and “Roving
Leaders Extend Our Reach,” April
1960.)

James W. Taylor, director of parks
and recreation in Colorado Springs,
Colorado, since 1956, is the new secre-
tary of the Essex County, New Jersey,
Park Commission, succeeding Robert
B. Kinsey, who retired on November
1 after thirty-eight years with the com-
mission. Mr. Taylor’s replacement as
director in Colorado Springs is E. Stu-
art Richter.

Francel A. Walker has joined the
staff of the White Plains, New York,

Department of Recreation and Parks as
recreation supervisor. As a first lieu-
tenant in the US. Army, he served as

 

Seen ot the annuol convention of the lndiano
Pork ond Recreation Association held in South
Bend ore (left to right): Bret McGinnis, stote
director of recreotion and new IPRA president;
Poul Boehm, director of recreotion in South
Bend ond IPRA post-president; Margaret Donk-
worth, ossistant executive director, Americon In-
stitute of Pork Executives; and Dovid M. Long-
kommer, Great Lakes district representative of
the National Recreation Association in Toledo.

special services Officer for an anti-air-
craft brigade which included fourteen
geographical locations throughout New
England and approximately twenty-five
hundred personnel. He also has had
experience working with families of
servicemen and with service youth ac-
tivities.

James F. Bunting will become gen-
eral secretary of the national board and
national council of the Young Men’s
Christian Associations as of February
1, 1964. He succeeds Herbert P. Lans-
dale, Jr., who is retiring after having
held the post since 1957. Mr. Bunting
has been general secretary of the Wash-
ington YMCA since 1960 and has served
in the Y movement for thirty-six years.
The YMCA now numbers almost two
thousand local branches in the United
States, has a membership of more than
four million and an annual budget ex-

ceeding $175,000,000.

 

IN MEMORIAM

 

«- DR. ERNEST G. OSBORNE, professor of
education at Teachers College, Colum-
bia University, and a prominent figure
in the field of family life and parent
education, died in New York City in
December at the age of sixty. He served
three terms as president of the National
Council on Family Relations and for
several years was a consultant in parent
education for the National Congress of
Parents and Teachers. He began his
thirty-five-year professional association
with Teachers College in 1928 as direc-
tor of the recreation club in the Horace
Mann School. He assisted in the devel-
Opment Of the Parent-Teacher Associa-
tion movement in this country.

o DR. HENRY 0. DRESSER, retired pro-
fessor of health and physical education
at Louisiana State University, died in
Baton Rouge in November at the age
of seventy-two. Dr. Dresser retired from
the LSU faculty in 1962 after twenty-
four years Of service. He was a charter
member and past-president of the Loui-
siana Recreation and Parks Association.
For seventeen years he served as a con-
sultant, supervisor, and volunteer with!
the Recreation and Park Commission,
for the Parish of East Baton Rouge
(’BREC) .

( C ontinued on Page 44)

RECREATION

i

R FOR THE ILL €§ HANDICAPPED

 

Morton Thompson, Ed.D.

RECREATION PROJECT FOR ARTHRITICS

HE Arthritis and Rheumatism Foun-

dation and the Philadelphia Ar-
thritis and Rheumatism chapter are
cosponsors of a federal public health
service project, “A Community Recre-
ation Referral Project for Arthritics.”
The project is being conducted by the
Philadelphia chapter with the cooper-
ation of the Philadelphia Recreation
Department under the guidance of the
National Recreation Association. The

study, which began September 16, 1963,
will attempt to determine the efiects of

participation in a community-based.

recreation program upon a selected
group of one hundred cases. The vari-
ables being investigated include:

0 Social efiect of the recreation pro-
gram upon the arthritic.

o Emotional efiect of the recreation
program upon the arthritic.

o The efiects of the recreation program
upon the physical (mediCal) condition
of the arthritic.

0 Degree of improvement in program
participation upon the arthritic.

o The efiects of weather conditions
upon the participation of arthritics in
the recreation program.

This project, the first recreation study
dealing with arthritis, may have a signi-
ficant efiect upon the approach to the
total needs of arthritics in the future.
The project is being guided by an ad-
hoc committee on recreation under the
chairmanship of Philip R. Trommer,
M.D. Other committee members are
Harold Snyder, executive director of
lhe arthritis chapter; Steward Mc-
Cracken, M.D.; Donald Qualls, M.D.;
Joseph L. Hollander, M.D.; Harry A.
Banghart, M.D.; and Louis Udell, M.D.

Charles L. Cranford, deputy com-
missioner of the Philadelphia Recrea-
tion Department, is working closely
with the medical committee and the
project team. The recreation depart-
ment is helping the project in the estab-
lishment of a list of recreation centers
geared to handle the interests and needs
of each arthritic referral.

A pilot study is how being conducted
with the first fifteen cases. After a short
session in the program, the project
team, the medical committee, and a
National Recreation Association con-
sultant will evaluate their findings to
determine whether any changes or mod-

DR. THOMPSON is director of the Na-
tional Recreation Association Consult-

ing Service on Recreation for the Ill
and Handicapped.

JANUARY, 1964

ifications are necessary in the approach
to the project plan.

All of the referral cases will be ex-
amined by the clinic physicians upon
acceptance in the program and they will
be medically reevaluated every three
months, for a total of six examinations
during the life of the project. All of
the cases will he basically evaluated for
social improvement, emotional improve-
ment, and program participation after
one month in the program. Then the
cases will be evaluated for improve-
ment at six months, twelve months, and
eighteen months. These evaluations will
be made by the physicians, physical
therapists who know the cases very well,
and by the recreation-center stafi mem-
bers. The same people will make the
periodic evaluations. Forms have been
designed for the various evaluations
and master charts will be used for com-
piling the data.

Gerald Wargo is project recreation
supervisor; Rodney Valentine, assist-
ant director; Morton Thompson, Ed.D.,
recreation consultant: and R. Roy
Rusk, National Arthritis 81 Rheumatism
Foundation consultant. Emily Muller,
chief physical therapist, is also a con-
sultant to the project and Roscoe
Brown, Ph.D., New York University,
research consultant.

The project team will maintain re-
cords of each individual’s participation
in recreation including activities par-
ticipated in, adaptations needed for
specific disabilities, problems arising in
the program, and special equipment
needed. This information will be com-
piled into a report and manual which
will be used to guide other community
arthritis programs in the United States
and which may be of great value to
health agencies dealing with other dis-
abilities yet needing similar recreation

services. r
s'l- * I!!- 'H'

+ Dr. Harold D. Meyer has been ap-

pointed national consultant in recrea-
tion for hospitalized veterans and mem-
bers of the Physical Medicine and Re-
habilitation Service of the Veterans Ad-
ministration’s Department of Medicine
and Surgery. As such Dr. Meyer will
make periodic visits to the VA central
office in Washington, D.C., to ofier com-
ments and recommendations on pro-
posed plans and procedures of the VA’s
Department of Medicine and Surgery
recreation program. In addition, Dr.
Meyer will visit selected stations of the

VA’s nationwide network of 169 hospi-

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

tals. On these occasions he will address
the hospital’s medical staff, appraise the
hospital’s recreation program, and meet
with the recreation staff, selected volun-
teers and community recreation leaders.

’1‘ “The Space Age may open as many
new vistas to the blind, the deaf, the
physically and mentally halt and lame
as it does to the first man who makes it
to the moon,” Mary E. Switzer, commis-
sioner of the US. Vocational Rehabili-
tation Administration for the past thir-
teen years, predicted recently. “Some

C cntinued on Page 41

 

RECREATION
DIRECTORS-

We

  
  
 
  
  
  
  
   
     
    

135 skilled instruc-
tors in 100 major
cities, coast to
coast.

JUST ASK US!
it

WORLD'S
LARGEST
LEATHER

 
 

P. 0. BOX 191-BE
FORT WORIH. IEXAS

 FREE (MA [06 
 Write today for Tandy’s big ""
 112 Page Cratt Calo '

. 6‘“ Id.-

   

In!“

MARKET NEWS

 

o Pipeline. Ice-skating enthusiasts in the Buffalo, New
York, area have a new super-size rink on which to Hash
their form. Located in Houghton Park, a municipal recrea-
tion center available to East Buffalo’s two hundred thousand
residents, this man-made skating area measures 202 feet
long by 101 feet wide. Most outdoor rinks average 185 feet
long by 85 feet wide, large enough to accommodate a stand-
ard professional hockey rink. Over eleven miles of Republic
Steel’s continuous buttweld standard black pipe for carrying
liquid ammonia used as the freezing agent have been in-
stalled. Pumps and compressors, located in the adjoining
skatehouse, deliver the freezing solution under pressure
through the 62,524 feet of Republic’s 1%-inch pipe for cir-
culation throughout the entire subsurface piping network.

Frank Grim (center) , deputy
commissioner of porks, ond
Nelson Baker (right), sen-
ior landscape engineer, Buf-
folo Parks Department, dis-
cuss ice-rink pipe installa-
tion with RPC Buffalo district
soles representative.

 

Fabricated to American Society for Testing Material’s A53
specification, the pipe is encased, dead center, in five inches
of concrete. The four-inch spacing of pipe in this type of
system meets standard requirements for maintaining even
temperature of ice across the entire surface of the rink. Built
at a total cost of approximately $200,000, the Houghton Park
Ice Rink is the seventh municipal outdoor rink installed by
the Buffalo Parks Department. For further information on

Republic piping, write to Republic Steel Corporation, 1441
Republic Building, Cleveland, Ohio 44101.

0 Never too cold. “\Vinterized” engines designed to with-
stand Midwest blizzards and Arctic temperatures have been
developed for a variety of cold-weather applications, such
as snow throwers, snowmobiles, ski tows, and concrete bug-
gies. The “winterized” engines are standard Kohler air-
cooled engines with special housing and other features added
to ensure easy starting and trouble-free operation in severe
cold. Special features include: (1) pressurized “heat pack”
housing which provides warm air for the carburetor and
protects external linkage and controls; (2) a fitted boot to
keep the sparkplug dry; (3) anti-clog venting on fuel-tank
filler cap, with filler neck raised to facilitate removal and
replacement of cap; (4) anti-icing design incorporated in
the large diameter recoil starter; and f5) chock and throttle
control made extra large so user can operate control without
removing heavy mitts or gloves.

Certain standard features make all Kohler engines adapt-
able for cold-weather operation. The high-energy magneto,
for instance, ensures positive ignition even at low-cranking
speeds. Automatic: spark advance mechanism retards the
spark during cranking and advances it for optimum power
as engine speed increases. Another standard feature is the

mechanical governor, located internally where it can’t clog
or freeze. For further information write to Kohler Com-
pany, Kohler, Wisconsin. a

I Elastometric control. A spray-type liquid mulch called
Soil Card is the latest answer to erosion control and seed
protection problems on any area where grass is grown. It
has been applied successfully on private lawns, country
clubs and golf courses, municipal parks, race tracks, nur-
series, airports, highway and landscaping projects, indus-
trial parks, athletic fields, and residential developments.
Soil Card is a liquid elastometric emulsion manufactured as
a concentrate. It is diluted with water, then sprayed on the
area to be protected, where it forms a web-like film on the
surface of the freshly seeded soil. This film holds seed in
place, binds and strengthens the soil surface so it will resist
erosion, and helps speed germination of seed by holding
heat and moisture in the soil. Because of its concentrated
liquid form, Soil Gard mulch is quick and easy to apply with
any conventional sprayer. A common sprinkling can is often
used for small areas or patches. It mixes immediately with
water and is applied in dilutions as high as nine parts water
to one part concentrate. Just enough is applied to make the
soil slightly damp. It is available in three different colors:
clear, for areas where it is preferable not to see the film;
green, on areas where a “finished” look enhances the beauty
of the project; and black, where maximum absorption of the
sun’s heat is desired for faster seed germination. For further
information, write to Miller Chemical and Fertilizer Com-

pany, 30006 West Cold Spring Lane, Baltimore, Maryland.

0 Big lift. “Outboards were portable,” commented one
sportsman, “before boats got bigger, motors got heavier,
boats got bigger, and so forth!” Not only the sportsman but
marina managers and repairmen are plagued by increasing
handling problems after the fun time is over. The answer
may well be found in a new portable and battery-operated
winch. Using a separate battery or employing the battery in
their autos, boat handlers are pulling boats onto trailers.
pulling trailers onto hitches, hoisting boats and motors on
vertical pulley arrangements and, of course, lifting out-
boards for repair and service with the Tiger winch.

According to its inventor, the Tiger winch draws mini-
mum battery current due to a power train of chain and spur
gears all mounted in needle bearings. It is available -in six-
or twelve-volt or up to 120-volt sizes, all providing one thou-
sand pounds of single-line pull on 250 feet or more of steel
cable. Easily mounted in an auto trunk, it may be moved
to other mountings for other uses. The Tiger winch features
remote controls on ten feet of neoprene cable giving a sports-
man, for example, plenty of room to guide a trailer on the
hitch. Longer controls are available on special order. Con-
trols are in a watertight aluminum box with two-way self-
centcring switches. Models have either manual or optional
automatic electric brakes. Prices, literature, and specifica-
tions are available from Tiger Manufacturing Company,

2312 West Pacific Coast Highway, Long Beach, California.

For further information, please write directly to source given and mention RECREATION Magazine.

90
t)()

RECREATION

RESOURCE GUIDE

 

 AIDS—Please Write Directly To Sources Given

GAMES AND SPORTS EQUIPMENT

TRY BEFORE YOU BUY. Accept an invitation to
personally test any piece of equipment at your
nearest Gym Master distributor. Write to the
head oHice of Gym Master Company, 3200
South Zuni Street, Englewood, Colorado, for
your dealer’s name. The company urges this
approach to buying and will be glad to send
you its free catalog of available merchandise.

YOU NEED NOT WAIT for more weight in your
game stands. New, unique standards, with
extremely heavy, perfectly balanced base now
eliminate the need for floor plates for any
activity. These are all-purpose, 10-feet high
rustproof steel uprights, adaptable for volley-
ball, tetherball, badminton, high jumping,
and so on. The stands are easily moved by
means of heavy, nonmarking casters. For
information, write Premier Athletic Products
Corporation, Riverdale, New Jersey.

WANT FREEDOM FOR ACTION? If so, pick out
the right suit for the right activity for pool
or gymnasium, new, illustrated catalog. Put
on your tumbling exhibit in suits that add
good lines to the activity. Show these stream-
lined designs to your modern dance group.
Write to Aldrich and Aldrich, Dept. 1, 1859
North Milwaukee Avenue, Chicago 47.



INDEX TO ADVERTISERS

Page
AAHPER ____________________ __.-.____ 26
American Playground Device _ .............. __ 41
American locker _________________________ -_r 4
Classified Advertising __.___--_____n---____--_. 40
Galloway Friendship Tours ________________ "A 17
Fun in the Sun _. ______________________ -m I
Kwikbilt _.__. ________________________________ __ 17
Monroe Company ...................... --__ 31
National Recreation Association __._-___-__.. I

Playground Summer Notebook
-___-_-__-___._..___-________-________-_ Inside Back Cover

Porter Sargent _ .......... __- Inside Front Cover
Prentice-Hall --__.-_______._-___-__-_._-_nm-u-.__ 34
Province of Alberta ___ ____________________ -.._ 1

Recreation Magazine Binders
___________________________ _- Inside Back Cover

School Activities __ ........ -_ Inside Front Cover
Toilatlex  Inside Front Cover
' Trophy World -______-._.-.._-_.--______________. 11
World-Wide Games .................. -- 17

.  --  
. JANUARY, 1964

 

FOR THOSE LOW IN FUNDS. Why not raise
some of your needed money by selling sweat-
shirts and jackets? Champion Knitwear Com-
pany, Inc., 115 College Avenue, Rochester
New York, has a fund-raising catalog to help
you. Buy from the manufacturer wholesale
and sell at retail prices. Fund raising can be
fun with a sportswear group!

MAINTENANCE, STORAGE, UPKEEP

OH, MY ACHING BACK! A self-propelled snow
thrower takes the backache out of winter’s
toughest chore. It cuts a twenty-inch path,
can handle up to fourteen thousand cubic
feet of snow per hour. It offers features usu-
ally found only in higher-priced self-propelled
units, including a high-torque impeller,
“freeze-proof” engine controls, and a chute
that swivels ninety degrees left or right. Ad-
justable skids permit snow removal from
smooth or rough surfaces, and a safety bar
prevents the impeller from hitting trees, curbs,
and other obstructions. For details, write to
Massey-Ferguson, Inc., 12601 Southtield Road,
Detroit, Michigan.

FREEZE-THAW DAMAGE. Practically all ice and
snow “deterioration” can be prevented by
carefully filling cracks and then applying a
coal-tar pitch emulsion coating over the en-
tire asphalt area. Among such protective
sealing products are Lastek 33, a rubberized
liquid, and Lastelc 34, a heavy caulking ma-
terial. When used for crack filling, both re-
main elastic, adhering firmly to adjacent sur-
faces. For overall pavement sealing, Jennite
J-I6 is a slate-black liquid which prevents
water penetration and also protects against
oxidation and solvent action of gasoline and
oil. It gives the pavement a new-look ap-
pearance. For winter protective date, write

Maintenance Inc., Wooster, Ohio (ask for
File WP).

SOLVE YOUR STORAGE PROBLEMS in 1964!
Chances are, your new year’s inventory will
be helped considerably by reorganization of
things. A first step is to obtain the new, free
steel-equipment Reference Manual No. 489
which explains all styles and sizes of steel
shelving, drawer units, lockers and cabinets.
Smooth styling, durability, space saving, are
typical qualities of all of Equipto equipment

units. For your copy of the manual write to
Equipto, Aurora, Illinois 60507.

DECORATING your omce, woodworking shop,
the dressing rooms in your theater, or what
have you? If so, consider utility as well as
appearance, and check over the possible uses
and effects of Presto Peg-Board. Incorporat-
ing peg-board as wall paneling can also trig-
ger storage ideas. An attractive and colorful
booklet on peg-board and its possibilities has
just been put out by the Masonite Corpora-

tion, entitled Peg-Board Ideas; while another
new booklet, Hints to the Handyman carries
sixty-six additional idea plans. Don’t wait to
to send for these, they are good! Write to
Masonite Home Service Bureau, 29 North

Wacker Drive, Chicago 6.

CONCRETE COLOR. A new dye-stain color for
concrete pool decks, patios, sidewalks, and
all concrete surfaces completely changes drab

surfaces. A color card and bulletin providing
complete and detailed information about

Colordek is available from the Kelley Paint
Company, Louisville, Kentucky.

PROGRAM AIDS

SWIM SAFE! Two manuals prepared by the
San Francisco Recreation and Park Depart-
ment are once again available for the asking.
One deals with Lifeguards, the other with
Swimming Pool Safety. Write to Helen Cen-
ter, McLaren Lodge, Fell and Stanyan, San
Francisco 17.

RESEARCH IN CREATIVE DRAMA. Adelphi Uni-
versity in Garden City, New York, recently
conducted a pilot demonstration in creative
acting techniques for the Advisory Council for
Children’s Theatre. Demonstration leader was
Grace Stanistreet, director of the university’s
Children’s Centre for the Creative Arts. A
pamphlet describing the project and its result
is available from Miss Stanistreet at the uni-
versity.

GIVE YOUR MEMORY A REST and use the new
“Don’t Forget” Production Schedule, which
lists 135 dates that must be kept for arrang-
ing or completing various details in preparing
a stage attraction. These are divided into
check-lists of “Don’t Forgets” for the pro-
ducer, director, scene designer, costume de-
signer, lighting designer, stage manager,
box office treasurer and publicity director. It
includes a list of five other “Don’t Forgets”
for after closing, that include “Pay all bills”
and “Letters of thanks.” For a free copy write
to Package Publicity Service, 247 West 46th
Street, New York 10036.

CHAIN REACTION. Atoms can give us power
to light our homes and run machines, help in
fighting disease, new tools to speed production
and research, and more abundant food. The
exciting story is told in a forty-page pamphlet,
The Atom in our Hands, available from the
Public Relations Department, Union Carbide
Corporation, 270 Park Avenue, New York 17.

FLORAL KNOW-HOW. Driftwood is made into
a treasure island for fiowers, a bread tray is
transformed into Cinderella baskets, and a
drain tile is the basis for a living sculpture!
This is just a peek into the interesting and
informative full-color filmstrip now available
for club or group showings. Entitled Adven-
ture with Flowers, the filmstrip shows how to
make the most commonplace and unusual
items into charming flower containers. Step-
by-step instructions are given for making ar-
rangements using flowers, greens, dried
grasses, et cetera. The creative ideas given
will be of as much interest to the person who
has never fancied herself a fiower arranger as

39

it will to garden clubbers and is excellent
material for any club program.

Produced by the makers of Oasis Flower
Arranging Aids, Adventure with Flowers is
a thirty-minute, 35mm filmSuip with narrative
on a 3336RPM record. It iS loaned free of
charge. Other films available from the same
source include Holiday with Flowers, a thirty-
minute, full-color filmstrip on Christmas
flower decorations, and 0f Lines and Flowers,
3. forty-five-minute, full-color sound movie on
the fundamentals of designing with flowers.

For further information, write to Smithers-
Oasis, Box 118, Kent, Ohio.

[OW-COST Allis _

Order these resources and references di-
rectly from source given ( enclose remittance).

Do NOT SACRIFICE STANDARDS. Too many agen-
cies use camp facilities planned for children
for vacation programs for older adults. The
Camping Service of the Community Council
of Greater New York has now prepared a
Guide to Standards for Vacation Facilities for
Older Adults. It covers general characteristics
of such facilities, construction and design of
buildings, dining room facilities, recreation
facilities, program, and Staff. The mimeo-
graphed pamphlet is available for $.25 from
the Community Council, 345 East 45th Street,
New York 10017.
p"_ .
A“

THREE IS Nor a CROWD'. Odds can be more
fun than eve“? End the wallilower problem
with Swinging hrees (4H, M95), a collection
of folk games and dances, playparty games,
and circle mixers using three people instead
of couples. Promote spontaneous participa-
tion in mixed groups of uneven numbers such

 

as 4-H club gatherings, church youth socials,
mixed age groups, and PTA family events.
The author, Edmund (Luke) Lukaszewski, iS
known throughout the upper Midwest for his
recreation training sessions. This sixty-two-
page pamphlet is a wonderful buy for $.50.
Available from the Bulletin Room, Institute
of Agriculture, University of Minnesota, St.
Paul 1.

N 0 DARK MYSTERY. Whether you are inter-
ested in electronics aS a career or an exciting
hobby, you need to know something about
both the how and why of electronic equip-
ment. A 111-page manual Getting Started in
Electronics has been prepared for everyone,
young or old, looking for a simple explanation
of basic electronics. In language anyone can
understand, the manual covers electron theory,
resistance, magnetism, capacitance, induct-
ance, reactance, stages of radio and the func-
tion of various tubes, semi-conductors and
basic components. Portions of the text pro-
vide information for the average nontechnical
person on AM and FM radio, TV, VHF, UHF,
citizens band and amateur radio, and other
subjects. Available for $.50 from Allied Radio
Corporation, 100 North Western Avenue, Chi-
cago 60680.

FOUND AGAIN! A sixteen-page booklet de-
scribes the “lost” wax metal-casting process
for small pieces. This centrifugal casting
method, using wax patterns, is ideal for jew-
elry and similar metal work, including pro-
jects for model Ship builders and fishing-lure
makers. It’s complete with step-by-step il-
lustrations which enable even the novice to
achieve good results. Lost Wax—The New
Modern Craft iS available for $1.25 from
Craftools, Inc., Wood-Ridge, New Jersey
07075.

USEFUL REFERENCE. The National Wildlife
Federation’s 1963 Conservation Directory has

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING

RATES: Words in regular type $.15 each
Words in boldface type $.25 each
Minimum ad accepted  $3.00

DEADLINES: Copy must be received by
the 51th of the month preceding date of
the issue in which ad is desired.

COPY: Type—or clearly print—your message and the address to which you wish
replies sent. Underline any words you want to appear in boldface type.

Send copy with remittcnwe to:

 

RECREATION Classified Advertising, 8 West 8th Street, New York, New York 10011.

HELP WANTED

Salesmen. Largest manu-
facturer and distributor of
arts and crafts materials in

the East is looking for part-
time salesmen for Southern,

Midwestern, a n d W e s t
Coast states to call on rec-
reation facilities and

camps. Commission basis.

Selected territories are
available. Must have ex-
perience. Please send de-
tails to Box R11, RECREA-
TION Magazine, 8 West 8th
Street, New York 10011.

Therapists for California
State Hospitals. Opportu-
nity to plan and conduct
individual patient recrea-
tion as well as special
group activities; modern
equipment and facilities
available. Positions open to
college graduates with ma-
jor in recreation or recrea-
tion therapy, which includ-
ed supervised field work.
No experience required.
Starting salary $463.00 per
month; liberal employee
benefits. Write State Per-
sonnel Board, 801 Capitol
Avenue, Sacramento, Cali-
fornia.

Head Counselor—Long-
established private Maine
girls’ camp. Unusual op-
portunity for highly experi-
enced, mature woman. Pro-
fessional training and pri-
vate camp experience pre-
requisites. Minimum age
thirty, excellent salary and
working conditions. Oppor-
tunity for long-term asso-
ciation. Replies confiden-
tial. Write Box 164, REC-
REATION Magazine, 8 West
8th Street, New York
10011.

The publisher um: no mpoutibility for oer-vices or am advertised here.

been improved with the addition of a large
number of agencies and organizations, as well
as a name index. It is handier than ever to
use. A useful addition to your reference li-
brary, the directory is available for $1.00 from

the NWF at 1412 16th Street, N.W., Washing-
ton 6, D. C.

GET ACQUAINTED with the new U. S. Welfare
Administration, the Sixth major operating
agency of the Department of Health, Educa-
tion, and Welfare. Included in the Welfare
Administration are:

' The OEiee of the Aging concerned with
the promotion of various services and facil-
ities to deal with the health, housing, income,
employment, leisure time, social welfare, and
to other problems of older people.

° The Of'tice of Juvenile Delinquency and
Youth Development which supports active
projects designed to learn more about causes
and demonstrate effective methods of prevent-
ing juvenile delinquency, and which also sup-
ports training in the area of delinquency and
related youth problems.

' Also, the Bureau of Family Services, the
Children’s Bureau, the Cuban Refugee Pro-
gram, and the International Welfare Service.

Recreation leaders Should find the pub-
lication of this new agency, Welfare in Re-
view, useful and interesting. It is published
monthly and is available for $2.50 per year

(with an Annual Statistical Supplement at
3.75).

DOCUMENTED EXAMPLES. A forty-page pam-
phlet on Dealing with Controversy contains a
number of case histories described by ex-
perienced public relation practitioners who
have dealt with controversy at or close to the
firing line. The first-hand observations of the
contributors to the publication describe prin-
ciples and practices of use not only to the
health, welfare, and other nonprofit organi-
zations, but to commercial enterprises as well.
The case stories of public relations in action
concern attacks on community organizations,
persistent public gripes, distortion by the
press, opposition to a health campaign, and
the problems stemming from “confidentiality.”
Attention iS also given to the opportunities
for informing public opinion as a result of
involvement in controversial issues. Selling
for $1.50, Dealing with Controversy is avail-
able from the National Public Relations Coun-
oil, 257 Park Avenue South, New York 10010.
(Also ask for a list of other NPRC publica-
tions which include material on planning; ex-
hibits, writing e§ective letters, et cetera.)

KNOW YOUR DUCKS. The U. S. Department
of the Interior has published a handy, 24-
page color waterfowl indentification guide,
Ducks at a Distance. It was prepared to Show
waterfowl in their fall migration colors and
to portray the birds from the same perspective
that one sees them in the wild. Copies can
be purchased for $.25 each from the Govern-
ment Printing Oiiice, Washington, D. C. 20402.
Sportsmen’s clubs, conservation groups, and
other organizations can obtain a special 25
percent discount on all orders of a hundred
copies or more.

RECREATION

Rx for "I and Handicapped
Continued from Page 37

remarkable experiments are now being

. conducted in the use of electronics to

aid the handicapped,” said Miss Swit-
zer, during an interview held in her

; office at the Department of Health, Ed-

ucation and Welfare, as reported in

I Performance, publication of the Presi-

dent’s Committee on Em lovment of the
P .

Handicapped.

“In the Scandinavian countries, I re-
cently watched a man who had lost the
use of his arms and hands blow through
a tube to operate a typewriter, use the

j telephone, and do many other things.

The Space Age could very well do as
much for the handicapped as for mod-

. ern-day adventurers.”

Miss Switzer talked of her work just
before being guest of honor at a dinner
given at Gallaudet College for the Work-
shop for Lutherans on Deafness and Re-
habilitation. At the dinner she received
another award to add to the thirty-four
public honors already accorded her.
During her thirteen years of service to
the handicapped, just under a million
physically and mentally disabled per-
sons have been rehabilitated for em-
ployment. The exact figure is 989,000
as compared to 546,000 rehabilitations
in the thirty years before Miss Switzer
took over the VRA. Through the facili-
ties of the state-federal rehabilitation
program, under Miss Switzer, sixteen
thousand deaf people and forty-two
thousand hard-of—hearing have been re-
stored to productive jobs.

‘ + A tough game of skill, whose ulti-

mate winners may be amputees, paraly-
tics, and astronauts, is currently under-
way in an engineering laboratory at
the University of California in Los An-
geles. In its present form, the game
calls for following a weaving dot on an
oscilloscope using only the play of a
chest and back muscle for tracking.
“You might get an idea of the complex-
ity of the operation if you took an arm-
less man trying to use two levers, one
for sideway motion, the other for up-
and-down movement, to hit a bobbing
duck in a shooting gallery,” says Dr.
John Lyman, head of the UCLA Bio-
technology Laboratory. The professor
of engineering and psychology devel-
oped the game for a dead serious pur-
pose: to see if amputees could learn a
new way of controlling artificial limbs
with a great deal more skill and less ef-
fort than they can with existing pros-

thetic devices. Here’s how the game
works:

Two transducers, developed in the
UCLA laboratory from silicone rubber

JANUARY, 1964

impregnated with carbon power, are
glued to one of the subject’s chest mus-
cles and one back muscle. One muscle
controls horizontal movement, the other
vertical motion. By coordinating the
frequency and force of the muscles’
pressure on the transducers, the subject
is able to‘track the dot on the oscillo-
scope.

“Translated into practical terms, this
means that the same method and power
an amputee could use his artificial limb
to grasp something with his fingers and
rotate his wrist simultaneously. That’s
something he can’t do with existing de-
vices,” says Dr. Lyman, whose research
is supported by the U.S. Office of Voca-
tional Rehabilitation and the Veterans
Administration. Working with Dr. Ly-
man is Amos Freedy, an engineering
student from Israel, who believes that
the technique, once fully developed,
could also be used by paralytics to train
weakened muscles.

+ Each year from May to July, rota-
tion reduces the number of experienced
recreation Gray Ladies at the U.S. Air
Force Hospital at Clark Air Base, to
the point where it must either curtail
the recreation program or find other
helpers to carry on without interrup-
tion. The American Red Cross newslet-
ter, Inter-Com, reports that youth vol-
unteers, who have time to give during
their long vacation, have proven to be
the answer to this problem, and their in-
terest continues through the school year.

A year ago a training course and rec-
reation workshop was offered to high
school volunteers who helped to meet
the need for trained volunteers until ad-
ditional Gray Ladies arrived on base.
Training was started the day after
school closed in order to attract inter-
ested high school juniors and seniors
before they became involved in other
activities. During the vacation period
the group assisted with many and var-
ied activities in the lounge and on the
wards, supervised by a Gray Lady or
the recreation supervisor.

The project was so successful that
when school reopened the girls contin-
ued to come twice a month to help with
evening lounge and ward programs.
When special activities are planned, the
girls come to the hospital after school
for a party-planning committee meeting
with patient representatives from the
wards. The committee members outline
details for the decorations, refresh-
ments, games, prizes, and the flyers to
be distributed as invitations to all the
patients. Some excellent ideas are de-
veloped, and the committee members
carry them to completion with much
verve and enthusiasm. The high-school
volunteers join the patient committee
members in decorating the Red Cross
lounge, and so much interest is gener-

 

ated by the planning and preparation
that a large percentage of the ambula-
tory patients attend.

The high-school volunteers have be-
come well versed in their individual re-
sponsibilities after working with the
professional staff all year, they now
need a minimum of direction and su-
pervision in following through on their
assigned activities. Their capabilities,
imagination, and enthusiasm are a real
asset to our hospital recreation pro-
gram. Out of the group have been re-
cruited two Gray Ladies, one nurse’s
aide, and a staff aide.

+ The Federation for the Handicapped

in New York City offers classes for the
handicapped in sewing, photography
and oil coloring, and amateur radio op-
erator (beginners and advanced). All
federation classes and clubs are free.

In addition to the regular classes the
federation sponsors clubs for ortho-
pedically disabled men and women, and
a newspaper group which publishes the
Voice of Fed. Homebound men and
women are brought to the federation’s
building in special buses. They are en-
rolled in four clubs consisting of small
groups headed by a trained leader.

 

Only The Best
E 0 III P M E N T
ls Gogd Enough

 

AMERICAN
"APPROVED"

PARK and PICNIC,
PLAYGROUND
AND SWIMMING

a POOL EQUIPMENT

The wise choice of experienced
buyers for more than half a century.
Write for comprehensive literature:

AMERICAN

PLAYGROUND DEVICE CO.

ANDERSON, INDIANA, U. S, A.

WORLD'S LARGEST MANUFACTURERS OF FINE
PARK. PICNIC. PLAYGROUND. SWIMMING
POOL AND DRESSING ROOM EQUIPMENT

 

When writing to our advertisers Dlease mention RECREATION. 1-1

NEW PUBLICATIONS

 

Improvisation for the Theatre, A
Handbook of Teaching and Directing

Technique, Viola Spolin. Northwestern
University Press, 1840 Sheridan Road,
Evanston, Illinois. Pp. 399. $6.95.

ERE is a book of suggestions for
H games and exercises forthe teacher
of acting, whether it be in an actor’s
studio, a recreation program, a class-
room, or a church school. It presents
the workshop way of teaching (learning-
by-doing) and emphasizes the process,
rather than the product. It is a book
deliberately free of technical vocabu-
lary which often frightens people from
study or activity. It presents games and
exercises cOncisely and clearly without
a maze of comments.

The first chapter, presenting the
theory out of which the book has come
and the foundation for the exercises
which follow, is interesting and clear.
There is a freshness in the author’s use
of words and complete avoidance of the
trite and cliché expressions concerning
creative experience and “expression.”
In her delineation of the “approval/dis-
approval” (authoritarian) way of
teaching and the damage this can do to
the person, she says, “Trying to save
ourselves from attack, we build a mighty
fortress and are timid, or we fight each
time we venture forth. Some in striving
with approval/ disapproval develop ego-
centricity and exhibitionism; some give
up and simply go along. Others, like
Elsa in the fairy tale, are forever knock-
ing on windows, jingling their chain of
bells, and wailing, ‘Who am I?’ In all
cases, contact with the environment is
distorted. Self-discovery and other ex-
ploratory traits tend to become atro-
phied. Trying to be ‘good’ and avoiding
‘bad’ or being ‘bad’ because one can’t
be ‘good’ develops into a way of life
for those needing approval/disapproval
from authority—and the investigation
and solving of problems becomes of
secondary importance.” So clearly she
disposes of'the authoritarian method
and at the same time prepares the reader
to learn more about problem investi-
gatlon.

I like the use of the word “player”
for “student” and wonder why she
speaks of the child “actor,” and why
she needed to devote so much space to
children. She has noted the fact that
certain of the games and exercises are
appropriate for the young. I wish she
had said the excellent things about the
teaching of children and stopped there.

42

Her enthusiasm for the child actor con-
veys the impression that children can-
not have too much theater training.
Here’s the “rub” for me. The child who
spends a great deal of his free time with
any one activity will become a veteran,
like the little girl in the book who asked,
“Did you think my concentration“ was
complete?” To become a veteran, par-
ticularly of theater, at a tender age is to
deny childhood. Acting, as one of many
interests, can contribute to the growth
and development of all children. Too
much of it, on the other hand, contrib-
utes to the development of precocity.

This book oHers many ideas to teach-
ers of young people. Leaders or direc-
tors of dramatic clubs are becoming
aware that the club is not meeting the
needs of the many who want to act. The
club’s reason for being is the play.
Hundreds of teenagers try out and never
make the grade because there are only
so many parts in a play. The acting
workshop is the answer to the wide-
spread interest and need for more cre-
ative activity. In the workshop, every-
one has the same chance.

One of the many strengths of the
book is the presentation of material to
the student in such a way that discus-
sion by the group can be eliminated.
Discussion too often means approval/
disapproval, and time is wasted while
students find words, not to describe
what has been done, but to prove their
own superiority. Instead, Mrs. Spolin
paves the way for self-evaluation. It
becomes clear at once whether the stu-
dent has satisfied the obligations, and
he knows it better than the group.

Improvisation for the Theatre is a
rich source of ideas for the acting work-
shop at all levels. The book and the
method it presents permits and stimu-
lates the individual to find as much as
he will. I have found confirmation, in-
spiration, and stimulation, and I rec-
onnnend it with enthusiasm.-—C race M.
Stanistreet, Director, Children’s Centre
for Creative Arts, Adelphi University,
Garden City, New York.

IN BRIEF

150 TECHNIQUES IN ART, Hans Meyers.
Reinhold Publishing Corporation, 430
Park Avenue, New York 10022. Pp. 93,
illustrated. $6.50. This small book of
ninety-three pages is a wonderful col-
lection of art techniques, both old and
new. The reproductions from the actual
work of children are fascinating and
show the success the author has had in

helping children to use basic techniques
with imagination and skill. Ten of the
seventy illustrations are in full color.
Among main divisions of the book, un-
der which working instructions are
given with subheads, are: drawing,
painting, silhouette, engraving, mosaic,
applique and textile techniques, print-
ing and tracing, sculpture, relief, archi-
tectural drawing and modeling, and ap-
plied decoration. This book will be a
valuable “find” for any teacher, recrea—
tion leader, or student, and belongs in

every craft leaders work kit—Mary B.
Cummings.

GOING PLACES WITH CHILDREN, Where
To Go and What To Do In and Around
Washington, D. C. (revised). Green
Acres School, Inc., Box 5760, Bethesda,
Maryland. Pp. 66, illustrated. $1.00.
Are you planning to take your children
to our nation’s capital? Or a group of
youngsters? This attractive guide cov-
ers sightseeing, museums, sports, rides,
shows, picnics, and many other fun
things to do and see. Clear descriptions
and full information as to days, hours,
fees, and other important items. Inter-
esting to read even if you don’t go!

GUIDE TO THE PERFORMING ARTS 1962,
pp. 469, $10.00. The Scarecrow Press,
257 Park Avenue South, New York 10.
The guide offers a cross index to arti-
cles on a myriad of subjects relating to
the performing arts appearing in most
of the major music, dance, and drama
periodicals in the United States, Can-
ada, Great Britain, and France. Per-
formances listed are not necessarily
complete, but will ofier the researcher
at least a good start. The guide should
be especially helpful in finding sources
of information in the preparation of

program notes, articles, special infor-
mation. and data. '

UNDERSTANDING AND USING CITIZENS
BAND RADIO. Allied Radio, 100 North
Western Avenue, Chicago 80. Pp. 111.

5.50. Here is a basic and inexpensive
handbook for those who want to start
two—way radio and walkie-talkie activi-
ties.

MUSIC—A TO Z, Jack Sacher, Editor;
based on the work of Rudolf Stephan.
Crosset and Dunlap, 1107 Broadway,

New York 10010. Pp. 432. Paper, $2.50.
Rudolf Stephan’s music cyclopedia is
translated by the editor from the origi-
nal Fischer Lexihon. The materials on

'Rpr‘nws'rlnw

v—‘r

 

musical forms, instruments, and many
other subjects will be useful in music
appreciation classes and for general
reference.

SONGS AND HYMNS FOR PRIMARY CmL-
DREN, W. Lawrence Curry, Musical
Editor. Westminster Press, Witherspoon
Building, Philadelphia 7. Pp. 159.
$1.75. Songs and hymns in this collec-
tion are for worship in the Reformed
tradition. The selections are aptly ar-
ranged for children. A group of charm-
ing playtime songs provide a unique
feature in this primarily religious pub-
lication. Church leaders should find it
a valuable program resource.

MEXICAN JEWELRY, Mary L. Davis and
Greta Pack. University of Texas Press,
Austin, Texas. Pp. 262, illustrated.
$6.50. This is a good reference and
source book of Mexican design. It cov-
ers Mexican jewelry from a very age
through modern work. It also gives in-
teresting information about the differ-
ent craftsmen. The many photographic
plates display the historic designs to
great advantage.

\VATERCOLOR TECHNIQUE IN 15 LES-
SONS, Rex Brandt. Reinhold Publishing
Corporation, 430 Park Avenue, New
York 10022. Pp. 102, illustrated. $7.95.
This how-to-do-it book has been proven
popular as this is the sixth revised edi-
tion. Mr. Brandt is a popular and well-
known watercolorist and teacher. Here
he gives questions and answers to the
fifty most asked questions. The book
is simply and well written, and anyone
who wants to paint can follow his sug-
gestions and will be stimulated to ex-
plore the subject further. It is a small
book, well illustrated with more than
'wo hundred sketches, photographs of
"ntings, and diagrams to make in-
tion clearer. Eight pages are in
. color. A good book for teachers,
students and anyone who would like to
paint in this media—M. B. C.

HANDWROUGHT JEWELRY, Lois E.
Franke. M cKnight & McKnight, Bloom-
ington, Illinois. Pp. 222, illustrated.
$7.96. A fine and beautiful book for be-
ginning jewelers, this covers all basic
techniques, materials, and tools in the
field of jewelry making. There has been
a real need for such a book. Few books
have covered the subject so well and so
simply and with such fine illustrations
and contributions of well-known crafts-
men. The over six hundred photographs
by William L. Udell, in both black and
white and color, make this very valu-
able for teachers, recreation leaders,
and craftsmen as well as novices in the

jewelry-making field—M. B. C.

.T ...____ _

‘n’a

 

BOOKS 8. PAMPHLETS RECEIVED

 

AGING

Buildings for the Elderly, Noverre Musson and
Helen Heusinkveld. Reinhold Publ., 430 Park
Ave., New York 10022. Pp. 216. $15.00.

Group Work with the Aged. Central Bureau for
the Jewish Aged, 31 Union Sq. W., New York
10003. Pp. 65. Paper, $1.50.

Housing for on Aging Population. New Jersey
Division on Aging, 129 E. Hanover St., Trenton
25. Pp. 60. No charge.

Older American, The, President's Council on Ag-
ing. U.S. Government Printing Office, Washing-
ton 25, D.C. Pp. 73. $.50.

Here is Your Hobby . . . Art, Andrew Lessin. G. P.
Putnam’s Sons, 200 Madison Ave., New York
10016. Pp. 128. $2.95.

Politics of Age, Wilma Donahue and Clark Tib-
bitts, Editors. Div. of Gerontology, Univ. of
Michigan, 1510 Rockhom Bldg., Ann Arbor.
Pp. 226. $5.00.

Recreational Activity Development for the Aging
in Homes, Hospitals and Nursing Homes, Carol
Lucas, Ed.D., A.C.S.W. Charles C. Thomas,
Springfield, Ill. Pp. 59. $4.25.

Retirement Money Guidebook. Amer. Heritage
 551 5th Ave., New York 10017. Pp. 126.

LAND USE

Cities and Space, Lawdon Winga, Jr. John Hap-

lgisnsoPress, Baltimore, Md. 21218. Pp. 261.
.5 .

Comparisons in Resource Management, Henry
Jarrett. John Hopkins Press, Baltimore, Md.
21218. Pp. 271. $5.50.

Farms and Farmers in an Urban Age, Edward Hig-
bee. Twentieth Century Fund, 41 E. 70th St.,
New York 10021. Pp. 183. $3.00.

Land Economics Research, Joseph Ackerman,
Marion Clowsan, and Marshall Harris. Johns
Hopkins Press, Baltimore, Md. 21218. Pp. 270.
Paper, $4.00.

Land Use Classification Manual. Public Admin.
Serv., 1313 E. 60th St., Chicago 37. Pp. 53.
Paper, $5.00.

Landscape Architecture, John Ormsbee Simonds.
F. W. Dodge, 1 19 W. 40th St., New York 10018.
Pp. 244. $12.75.

Loss of Park ond Recreation Land, The, Donald
E. Sinn and George D. Butler. Amer. Institute
of Park Executives, Ogleboy Park, Wheeling,
W. Va. Pp. 32. Paper, $1.00.

Park and Recreation Land Requirements in New
Sub-Divisions and Replottings, Harry H. Feld—
man. Amer. Institute of Park Executives, Ogle-
boy Park, Wheeling, W. Va. Pp. 36. Paper,
$2.00 ($1.00 AIPE members). '

Preserving Urban Open Space. U.S. Government
grizrging Office, Washington 25, D.C. Pp. 36.

Public Lands, The: Studies in the History of the
Public Domain, Vernon Carstensen, Editor.
Univ. of Wisconsin Press, 430 Sterling Ct., Mad-
ison 6. Pp. 522. $6.75.

Resources in America's Future: Patterns of Re-
quirements and Availabilities 1960-2000, Hons
H. Londsberg, Leonard L. Fischmon, and Joseph
L. Fisher. Johns Hopkins Press, Baltimore, Md.
21218. Pp. 1017. $15.00.

 

Scarcity and Growth: The Economics of Natural
Resource Availability. Johns Hopkins Press,
Baltimore, Md. 21218. Pp. 288. $5.50.

Urban Land Use Planning, F. Stuart Chopin, Jr.
Univ. of Illinois Press, Urbano. Pp. 397. $6.95.

PERSONNEL

Building a Management Development Program
Through Planning and Controls, Preston Le
Breton. Public Personnel Assac., 1313 E. 60th
St., Chicago 37. Pp. 24. $2.50 ($2.00 to PPA
members).

Career Guide for Young People, Mary Furlong
Maare. Doubleday, 575 Madison Ave., New
York 22. Pp. 261. Paper, $.95.

Folklore of Management, The, Clarence B. Ron-
dall. Little Brown, 34 Beacon St., Boston 6.
Pp. 204. $4.75.

Gantt on Management, Alex W. Rothe, Editar.
Amer. Management Assac., 1515 Broadway,
New York 10036. Pp. 288. $9.00.

Governmental Manpower Far Tomorrow's Cities.
McGraw—Hill, 330 W. 42nd St., New York 10036.
Pp. 201. $6.95.

Let’s Get Down to Cases, Lydia Strong. Amer.
Management Assac., 1515 Broadway, New
York 10036. Unpaged. Paper, $3.00 (AMA
members $2.00).

Management for Modern Supervisors, Carl Heyel.
Amer. Management Assac., 1515 Broadway,
New York 10036. Pp. 255. $6.75.

Safety Handbook for Office Supervisors. Natl.
Safety Council, 425 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago.
Pp. 57. Paper, $2.15.

Salaries and Related Personnel Practices in Val-
untary Social and Health Agencies in New
York City, September, 1962. Community Coun-
cil of Greater New York, 345 E. 45th St., New
York 10017. Pp. 52. Paper, $2.00.

Shefferman Personnel Motivation Program, The,
Nothon Shefferman. Prentice-Hall, Englewaod
Cliffs, N. .1. Pp. 222. $12.50.

Standards for Recreation and Park Personnel in
Local Public Agencies. Documents Section,
State Printing Office, N. 7th St. and Richards
Blsdq Sacramento 14, Calif. Pp. 88. Paper,
1. 0.

Understanding the Employee as an Individual,
John R. Kennedy, Douglas Williams, and Raye
mond A. Katzell. Public Personnel Assoc., 1313
E. 60th St., Chicago 37. Pp. 19. Paper, $2.50.
($2.00 to PPA members).

PHOTOGRAPHY

Better Photography for Amateurs, D. X. Fenton.
Verlan Books, 915 Broadway, New York 10010.

Pp. 128. Paper, $1.95.

Improved 35mm Techniques, Poul Jonas. Univer-
sal Photo Books, 915 Broadway, New York
10010. Pp. 124. Paper, $1.95.

Mamiya C2 Camera Guide, Joseph D. Cooper.
Amphcta Books, 33 W. 60th St., New York 23.
Pp. 127. Paper, $1.95.

Manual of Darkroom Procedures and Techniques,
Paul Janos. Amphota Books, 33 W. 60th St.,
New York 23. Pp. 128. Paper, $1.95. I

Minox Manual, The, Joseph D. Cooper. Universal
Photo Books, 915 Broadway, New York 10.
Pp. 160. $4.95.

Official Miranda Monual. Amphoto, 33 W. 60th
St., New York 23. Pp. 123. $2.50.

Peter Gowland's Guide to Electronic Flash. Am-
phata Books, 915 Broadway, New York 10010.

Pp. 128. Paper, $1.95.

READING AND WRlTlNG

Books for the Teen Age, 1963. New York Public
Library, 5th Ave. and 42nd St., New York 18.
Pp. 50. $.50.

Books to Grow On, Marion Pasey Anderson. Amer-
icon Jewish Committee, 165 E. 56th St., New
York 22. Pp. 40. $.25. .

Current American Usage: How Americans Say It
and Write It Margaret M. Bryant. Funk 6'
Wagnolls, 360 Lexington Ave., New York 17.
Pp. 290. $5.00. _ _

Freedom to Read, Peter Jennison. Public Affairs
Committee, 22 E. 38th St., New York 16. Pp.
20. $.25. _

Let Them Write Poetry, Nina WiIIIs Walter. Holt,
Rinehart and Winston, 383 Madison Ave., New
York 17. Pp. 179. Paper, $1.95. .

More Language That Needs Watching, Theodore
M. Bernstein. Channel Press, 400 Community
Dr., Monhasset, N.Y. Pp. 107. $2.50.

Phrase and Word Origins, Alfred H. Halt. Dover
Publ., 180 Varick St., New York 14. Pp. 254.
Paper, $1.35. . .

Playing With Words, Joseph T. Shlpley. Prentice-
Hall. Englewaod Cliffs, N. J. Pp. 186. $3.50.

Read To Me Again (compiled by the Child Study
Association of America). Thomas Y‘. Crowell,
432 Park Ave. 5., New York 16. Pp. 140. $2.50.

Reading in the Kindergarten? Margaret Rasmus-
sen, Editor. Assoc. for Childhood Education
|nternotl., 3615 Wisconsin Ave., N.W., Wosh—
ingtan 16. Pp. 40. $.75.

Reading Literature Aloud, Lawrence H. Mouot.
Oxford Univ. Press, 417 5th Ave., New York 16.
Pp. 205. Paper, $2.25.

i \

_ \

Ramarice of Words, The, Ernest Weekley. Dover
Publ., 180 Varick St., New York 14. Pp. 175.
Paper, $1.25.

Uses of Literacy, The, Richard Haggart. Beacon
Press, 25 Beacon St., Boston 8. Pp. 319. Paper,

$1.75.

SCIENCE AND SPACE

AerOSpace Highlights: Facts and Figures from the
Aerospace World. Natl. Aviation Education
Council, 1025 Connecticut Ave., N.W. Wash-
ington 6, D. C. Pp. 54. $.50

Built-It-Yourself Science Laboratory, Raymond
E. Barrett. Daubleday Cr Co., 575 Madison Ave.,
New York 22. Pp. 340. $4.50.

Earth and Space Guide for Elementary Teachers.
Natl. Aviation Education Council, 1025 Can-
necticut Ave., N.W., Washington 6, D. C.
Pp. 82. Paper, $1.00.

Earth Is Your Spaceship, The, Julius Schwartz.
McGraw-Hill, 330 W. 42nd St., New York 36.
Pp. 32. $2.50.

Edison Experiments You Can Do, Joseph H. Kraus
and Marjorie Van de Water. Thomas Alva
Edison Foundation, 8 W. 40th St., New York
18. Pp. 32. $.25.

Gravity at Work and Play, Sune Engelbrektson.
Holt, Rinehart 6' Winston, 383 Madison Ave.,
New York 17. Unpaged. $1.95.

Instructions in Electricity and Magnetism, R. H.
Warring. Sportshelf, P. O. Box 634. New Ro-

chelle, N. Y. Pp. 124. $3.75.

Lift-Off: The Story of Rocket Power, Charles
Coombs. Wm. Morrow, 425 Park Ave. S., New

York 16. Pp. 95. $2.95.

Space Frontier, The (with astronautics glossary).
Natl. Aviation Education Counc1l, 1025 Con-
necticut Ave., N.W., Washington 6, D. C.

Pp. 32 $.50.

Stars and Outer Space Made Easy, Carlos .5.
Mundt. Naturegraph Co., Healdsburg, Calif.
Pp. 80. Paper, $1.95.

Suggested Teaching Guide for the .Earth and
Space Science Caurse, A. Natl. AVIatIon Edu—
cation Council, 1025 Connecticut Ave., N.W.,
Washington 6, D. C. Pp. 103. Paper, $1.00.

Tasty Adventures in Science, Sally Fax. Lantern
Press, 257 Park Ave. S., New York 10. Pp. 63.

$2.95.*

True Book of Energy, The, llla Podendorf. Chil-
drens Press, Jackson Blvd. Cr Racine Ave.,

Chicago 7. Pp. 47. $2.00.*

Understanding Amateur Radio, George Grammer.
Amer. Radio Relay League, West Hartford 7,
Conn. Pp. 320. Paper, $2.00.

Wait and See, Constantine Georgiou. Harvey
House, lrvington—on-Hudson, N. Y. Unpaged.

$2.50.*

You and Space, Frances George. Natl. Aerospace
Education Council, 1025 Connecticut Ave.,
N.W. Washington 6, D. C. Pp. 30. $.50.*

* For younger readers.

 

MAGAZINE ARTICLES

NATURAL RESOURCES JOURNAL,* October 1963
Recreation Planning as an Economic Problem,

Robert K. Davis.

Outdoor Recreation Research: Some Concepts
and Suggested Areas of Study, Marlon Claw-
son and Jack L. Knetsch.

The Myth and Reality of Multiple Use Forestry,
George R. Hall.

PARENTS' Magazine, December 1963
Oh, Say, Can You Ski? Shirley Welton.

SPORTS ILLUSTRATED, November 18, 1963
The Life Giving Spray (pesticides), Virginia
Kraft.
New Sugar in an Old State (skiing in Vermont),
Huston Horn.
Some Spice for the Sugar
mont), Ezra Bowen.

It's Wintertime, Sa Let's Ploy Tennis

Canaan, Connecticut), Rex Lardner.
, November 25, 1963

The Uniform Can Be 0 Death Trap, Rex Lard-
ner.

A Way to Learn Skiing's Facts at Life, Anthony

Carson.
, December 2, 1963

The Play-Money Game That Made Millions
(Monopoly), J. F. Wilkinson.

Spirit, Mind, Body (Springfield College), Robert
H. Boyle.

YWCA Magazine, December 1963
Summer Jabs for Teenagers, Anne Thomas.

 

(Sugarbush, Ver-
(New

 

‘9‘ Published by the School of Law, Universit of
New_MeXIco, 915 Roma, N.E., AIbuQuerque, New
geggzo. $2.50 per

annual

COPY. subscription

Ad

 

1N MEMORIAM

 

Continued from Page 36

o RABBI ABBA HILLEL SILVER, inter-
nationally known for his work in Zion-
ism, religion, welfare, education, and
the advancement of literature and the
arts, died recently in Cleveland, Ohio,
at the age of seventy. He was an ardent
fisherman and loved the outdoors. He
liked to say that his delving into mes-
sianic Speculation and Jewish mysticism
went well with his fishing. Rabbi Silver
was a honorary member of the National
Recreation Association.

o MARGARET LYONS DIEDERICII died
recently in Cleveland, Ohio. Mrs.
Diederich’s career spanned thirty years
of public service in Metropolitan Hous-
ing and the Cleveland Division of Rec-
reation. For twelve years she served as
director of girls and women’s organized
sports for Greater Cleveland. She was
also associated for Some time with the
division’s Bureau of Arts and Culture.

0 DR. LLOYD B. SHARP, professor of
outdoor education and recreation at
Southern Illinois University in Carbon-
dale, died in December in Mayo, Flor-
ida, where he was helping establish a
youth camp. He was sixty-eight. Dr.
Sharp served on the staff of the Play-
ground and Recreation Association of
America (now the National Recreation
Association) from 1919 to 1923. Dur-
ing this time he set up community
recreation systems, made surveys, and
did promotional work with various
types of civic organizations in cities
and counties in fifteen states.

0 OWEN C. JONES, general supervisor
of sports, aquatics, and industrial rec-
reation for the Oakland, California,
Recreation Department died recently at
the age of forty-nine. Mr. Jones first
joined the Oakland department in 1936
as a young playground supervisor. He
served for a brief period in San Luis
ObiSpo as a division director of recre-
ation with the Works Progress Admin-
istration, and then returned to Oakland
in 1942 as supervisor of recreation. He
was appointed a general supervisor in

1947.

o HERBERT LEIIMAN, philanthropist
and political leader, died in New York
City in December at the age of eighty-
five. Mr. Lehman was a former gov-

ernor of New York and a former U.S.
senator. On their golden wedding anni-
versary, Mr. and Mrs. Lehman pre-
sented the children of New York City
with an enchanted acre in Central Park
. . . the Children’s Zoo which has been
visited by over 1,600,000 persons since
its dedication two years ago.

“—

Industrial Forest Lands
Continued from. Page 19

responsibility of the bureau concerns
the formulation of a nationwide recrea-
tion plan. As federal, state, and re-
gional plans are developed, the bureau

will seek to formulate an integrated na- '

tionwide plan with regional provisions
which could be used by the federal gov-
ernment, states, and other cooperating
agencies for overall planning and pro-
graming purposes. The bureau will:

0 Maintain estimates of present and

future trends in the supply and demand '

for recreation facilities.

0 Identify critical outdoor recreation
problems and propose solutions.

0 Encourage federal, state, and private
planning and action agencies to adopt
programs designed to attain maximum
benefits of outdoor recreation.

The bureau’s fourth major responsi-
bility relates to an effective research
program. This is imperative. Research
and experimentation are necessary if
the optimum use of all land and water
recreation resources is to be realized.
In addressing the 40th Annual Conven-
tion and Conservation Conference of
the Izaak Walton League of America.
Dr. Edward C. Crafts, director of the
bureau. declared, “There needs to be
public understanding that recreation is
not only a renewing experience but also
serious business. It is serious national
business both because of its economic
impact and its beneficial effect on the
physical, cultural, social, and moral
well-being of the American people. It
is a partial solution to the social prob-
lems created by urbanization and lei-
sure time. It is a solution, at least in
part, to the fact that man is not wholly
suited physiologically to meet the tech-
nological demands placed upon him.
Most of the hosPitalizations in the coun-
try today are emotionally based. In this
vein, I like to think of the new organiza-
tion as the Bureau of Outdoor Re-Crea-

tion.” #

I? L‘I‘I) l.‘ A '1‘an

 

THINGS

A
R
. E
// I
SWINGIN’
That’sthe theme of
THE
Dated and Undated '964
0 Blue heavy simulated leather stamped in gold 
0 Each holds one year’s issues  
0 Opens flat for changes
RECREATION MAGAZINE Wt?"

8 West Eighth Street, New York II Pub|ication Date

 

 

1964 National Recreation Association District Conferences

DISTRICT DATES LOCATION HOTEL

l6th Annual California and February 22-26
Pacific Southwest
Recreation and Park
Conference

Anaheim, California Disneyland Hotel

Southern March 3l-April 2
Southeastern Section

Columbia, South Carolina Wade Hampton

Southwest March 3l-April 3 Dallas, Texas ‘ Statler Hilton
Great Lakes April |~3 Milwaukee, Wisconsin Schroeder
Pacific Northwest April l2-l5 Billings, Montana Northern
Midwest April l4~l7 Colorado Springs, Colorado Antlers

Middle Atlantic May l0-l3 Baltimore, Maryland lord Baltimore
New England May l7-20 Groton, Connecticut Griswold Hotel

and Country Club

 

Pamphlet Series—The Performing Arts as Recreation

 

RECREATION

Introducing our new title

No. IV — POETRY IS RECREATION

Order in Quantity Lots:

No. I —MUSIC 15 RECREATION
No. II —— DRAMA IS RECREATION
No. 111 — DANCE IS RECREATION

Use with

Your staff “ Your board or commission
Advisory Committees Citizen committees
Clubs Planning groups
And for
Fundraising Promotion of bond issues
Publicity Selling recreation
Education Training of Volunteers .
Program Planning : r  Telling your story

 

Current prices as applied to each title
Single copies, $1.00; except Poetry, $5.50 0  of four titles, $3.00

11 to 24 copies of the same title, $.85 each; Poetry, $.40 each 0
25 or more, $5.75 each; Poetry, $5.35 each:
100 or over of the same title, $60 per hundred; Poetry, $30.00

 

Order from

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION 8 West 8th Street, New York, N .Y. 10011

