 

 

TOM HARTER, DIRECTOR

"One of the finest innovations
developed for physical education!”

TOM HARTER’S SUCCESS
AT BATTLE CREEK

Hundreds of boys, 9 to 15 years (and
many junior high girls also) enthusiasti-
cally played the new game of Indoor
Hockey, introduced on an organized
league basis by Tom Harter. Principals,
coaches, athletic directors and parents
eagerly cooperated. 43 teams played a 10

by an All-Star game between the League
champions and a team of All—Stars, on
April 6th 1963. Scores of smaller stu-
dents, not qualified for football or basket—
ball, became outstanding Indoor Hockey
players. But not one accident, calling for
medical attention, occurred.

Dept. of Clvic Recreatlon

Battle Creek, Mich. week, 12 hr. a day schedule, Climaxed

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 

“Interest and enthusnasm for the game
was so great . . . students were arriv-
Ing at the school even before the buses

to participate in the intra-mural pro-
gram.”

Robert D. Wright, Principal
Woodrow Wilson Jr. High

"The game affords many students
opportunlty for vigorous activity in a
short time."

A. D. Leibert, Director
Physical Ed and Athletics
N. W. Junior High School

. .
- t s . .: 7 W12. .v
we .   a»   a ; -9“

xii"

1., . e
. l ,
' it

My  WRITE for FREE COPIES

of the Battle Creek Program
with Official Rules Booklet

Mr. Harter has kindly made available for publication a
thorough description of the Battle Creek Indoor Hockey
program, with playing rules deve10ped through 2 seasons
and an explanation of league organization and promo-
tion. Copies will be mailed, free, upon request to Cosom
Corporation at the address below.

As of last October, 9 more Michigan towns had ordered
Cosom Hockey Kits to start Indoor Hockey leagues in
their schools. Mr. William Cutt of the Hurley Social Cen-
ter of Chicago reported outdoor games on playgrounds
were “a huge success". Similar reports have been received
from many other localities.

Anna Barker, Phy. Ed. Instructor for girls at N. W. Jr.
High of Battle Creek, says Indoor Hockey is “one of the
most stimulating and vigorous indoor activities. Students
have shown much enthusiasm for this activity”. With the
Cosom Kits, Indoor Hockey is an inexpensive as well as
highly interesting way to bring needed physical develop-
ment to great numbers of students not taking part in the
"varsity" sports.

WRITE US FOR YOUR FREE COPIES TODAY

   

ABOVE: Even handicapped boys shine as goal tenders.

BELOW: Complete kit for 12 players costs little.

 
  
 

    

SEE YOUR SCHOOL SUPPLY DEALER
OR WRITE US FOR FULL INFORMATION
6030 WAVZATA BLVD.. MINNEAPOLIS 16. MINN.

009084

sm-I-rm e

h
x‘(Dcaucf‘e'

“hon writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

Above: Elks Lodge and Golf Club. Hamilton, Ohio
Architect: L. Casaccio & E. E. Loewe, Norristown, Pennsylvania
Armco Dealer: Midwest Steel Buildings Co., Dayton, Ohio

\

I Below: Holiday Inn Motel. Madison, Wisconsin
Armco Dealer: Peninsula Construction and Supply Co.,
Scofield, Wisconsin

 

Meet your space demands with Armco Steel Buildings

Armco Steel Buildings offer you all the features
that recreational buildings demand—attractive-
ness, maximum utilization of space, functional
design,versatility to satisfy future changing needs,
large unobstructed fioor areas if required. You get
all these features along with the proved durability,

low-maintenance and economy of mass-produced
steel components.

Your Armco Steel Building can be designed to

F—7

suit your particular tastes. Sculptured STEELOX®
Panels (available in a selection of baked-on colors)
are self-framing, allowing quick erection with a
minimum crew.

Before you build, look into the advantages of
Armco Steel Buildings. Write us or call for com-

plete details. Metal Products Division, Armco Steel Cor-
poration, Department M-554, P. 0. Box 800. Middletown.
Ohio 45042.

ARMCO Metal Products Division

\/

EBRUARY, 1964

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 45

FEBRUARY I964

RECREATION

 

 

VOL. LVll NO. 2 PRICE 60c
THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

GENERAL

None Does His Job Alone . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1. Austin Smith 4-8
In. unity and coordinated effort there is power

A Look Ahead at Miami Beach . . . . . . . . . . . . Charles M. Christiansen 55
Plans for the 1964 National Recreation Congress

This Is Your NRA, Part I . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
What you will see and learn when you visit N RA Headquarters

Drop Anchor at the Fair . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59

A model marina will greet sea-borne visitors to New York’s World Fair

 

NRA District Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
Preview of 1964 regional meetings

New Life in a Leprosarium . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Tim Bodrnan 62
Peace Corps volunteers provide recreation in Addis Ababa

Deep River W7 inter Carnival . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
Human energy launches winter fete in atomic-energy town

Ambassador by Letter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Julian Bartolini 64
Similar interests and hobbies among correspondents the world over

Meet You in Japan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
World Recreation Congress precedes Olympic Games

PROGRAM

POETRY IS RECREATION (Bonus to subscribers) . . . . . . . . . . .. 67
Fourth in the NRA pamphlet series on The Performing Arts In Recreation

Your Arts and Crafts Corner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75

New ideas and recipes

ADMINISTRATION

 

 

Men to Match Our Problems . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Louis J. Kroeger 76
W e must develop new ideas about administration and professional service
Recreation in Low-Cost Housing Projects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
Joint planning by community agencies

Research Briefs . . . . . . . . _ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 80
Planning for Metropolitan New York, San Franciso Bay, New Hampshire

Notes for the Administrator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
An executive must learn to conserve time

Man of Many Talents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Keith C. Briscoe 89
Requirements for a college union director

DIGEST

Recreation Out of Necessity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jac A. Cropley 84

Pattern of leisure in North America mirrors its economic development

MONTHLY

 

Letters 4-7 Reporter’s Notebook 4-9 People in the Recreation News 5].

As “7 e Go To Press 53 Market News 86
Rx for the III and Handicapped 90 Films 93

Resource Guide 87
New Publications 94-

 

RECREATION is published monthly except July and August by the National Recreation Association,
a service organization supported by voluntary contributions. at 8 West Eighth Street. New York 11.
New York. is on file in public libraries and is indexed in the Readers’ Guide. Subscription $5.00 a
year. Canadian and foreign subscription rate $5.75. Re-entered as second-class matter April 25.
1950, at the Post Office in New York, New York. under Act of March 3. 1879. Acceptance for mailing
at special rate of postage provided for in Section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917. authorized May 1.
1924. Microfilms of current issues available from University Microfilms, 313 N. First Street. Ann
Arbor, Michigan.

The articles herein printed are Copyright. 1964 by the “u.
the expression of the writers and 1 National Recreation Association. :' '3
not a statement of policy of the ' '"Corporated 5-
National Recreation Association. Printed in the U.S.A. "'“'

 

46

 

 

Editor in Chief
JOSEPH PRENDERGAST

Editor
DOROTHY DONALDSON

Assistant Editor
ELVIRA DELANY

Associate Editor for Program
VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

Business Manager
FRANK ROWE

Advertising Manager
ESTA GLUCK

 

On the Cover

Skating and games were popular
with Dutch children even back in
the 1500’s, as artist Pieter Brueghel,
the Elder, graphically shows us in
this portion of his famous paint-
ing of winter activities in Holland.
Most of Brueghel’s works are in the
Kunsthisthorisches Museum in
Vienna.

Next Month

March is the month for the annual
Camping and Outdoor Recreation
Issue of RECREATION. Articles will
cover various aspects of what to-
day’s camps should offer children.
Included will he articles on experi-
ments in nature education, drown-
proofing and new techniques in
teaching lifesaving, how to handle
“problem” children and camp disci-
pline, how recreation departments
can promote family trailer travel
and camping, how teenage campers
can explore and understand the
communities and world around
them, how to manage land and wa-
ter resources to meet the outdoor
recreation demands of our explod-
ing population. If camping activi-
ties are really to meet today’s needs,
we must have more research and we
will report on various research
projects on camping and outdoor
education either recently completed
or currently in progress. These in-
clude an eighteen-month study of
camping facilities and needs in the
Greater Boston area.

Photo Credits

Page 51, (Mitchell) Charles Leon;
52 (Hartzog) Hadley K. Irwin, Mis-
souri State Park Board; 63, Com-
munity Association, Inc., Deep
River, Ontario, Canada; 66, (top)
Japan Tourist Association, Tokyo,

(bottom) Hadley K. Irwin; 84, Ca-

nadian National Railways.

RECREATION

i
ELETTERS

 

'More on Recreation Literacy

An article “0n Recreation Literacy”

I in the December 1963 issue of RECREA-
TION stimulated the following response:

Sirs:

To be “recreationally literate” is not
only a most desirable but a necessary
tstatus to achieve if our increasing lei-
lsure time is to be worthily used and
lnot become a useless void. To attain
I-such literacy requires the knowledge,
‘skills, understanding and, most impor-
ltant, the capacity to choose, from
jramong all the activities to which one’s
{time can be devoted, those that contrib-
ute most to one’s purposes, needs, and
feelings of satisfaction. On this basis,
persons should learn “discriminating
selection” in the constructive use of
,time. To acquire such rational knowl-
'edge requires awareness of the values
of a Wide variety of activities, an ability
to moderate and weigh these values, and
la capacity to make wise choices.

Four suggested standards that might
well be weighed in “allotting leisure
’time” could include: (1) balance among
physical, intellectual, aesthetic, and cre-
ative activities; (2) activities with
a lifetime value; (3) activities to
strengthen capacities or overcome weak-
nesses; and (4) time for quiet solitude,
contemplation, and thinking. All agen-
cies in the field of leisure-time services

—-—public and private—~must share in
the dual responsibility of developing
the “recreation literacy” of their con-

 

 

 

stituency and providing in part for its
application.

The challenge facing all of us in the
leisure-time field is to help the Ameri-
can people find for themselves the most
satisfying uses of leisure. More and
more the task of the most creative of
us, regardless of our agency setting, will
be to serve as cultural planners and
leisure-time counsellors as well as rec-
reation practitioners.

EDWIN J. STALEY, Executive Director

Recreation and Youth Services Plan-

ning Council, 731 South H ape Street,

L03 Angeles 90017.

Impact

Sirs:

The article by Dr. David Gray called
“Our New Automated World” [Novem-
ber 1963] was excellent. . . . I hope that
it will be picked up by other magazines
which thrive on reprinting.

It seems to me that men of my profes-
sion all over the nation need to read
this article or have this impact imposed
upon us. Ministers everywhere will be
involved with this sooner or later even
though they may not be in the densely
populated areas where the work forces
are in large numbers.

I hope that this information can be
relayed to Dr. Gray for I felt that this

information and the impact of his inter-

pretation of our life in the very near'

future must be understood.
DR. J. AUSTIN LININCER, First Pres-
byterian Church, Pocatello, Idaho.

 

 

Healthful fun for every age group!
DIMCO SHUFFLEBOARD

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Children. young pe0ple. adults . .
Dimco ShutiIeboard tor excitement. relaxation and
wholesome exercise! Court diagram can easily be laid.
indoors or outdoors.
low-price "Sunlite" or premium-quality "Free-Glide"
lines. comes in sturdy Regulation Sets or Junior Sets
[2/3 regulation size).

. everyone enioys

Famous Dimco equipment. in

FREE . . . Court layout plans. game rules. catalog ot
Dimco shuttleboard sets. Write today to:

DIMCO-GRAY, 205 E. Sixth St., Dayton 2. Ohio

 

 

FEBRUARY, 1964

 

 1219]), Inc.

 LOW FACTORY-DIRECT PRICES

  SALesreorLE, WANTED to
sun. our: TROPHIES WHOLE-
SALE IN YOUR cmr. FOR IN-
rommou WRITE Atriu-
nou rassuoem.

 LS

:' .  h “I, 
a  Dept: ncn 1910 we Av... Hialeah. Florida 33013

 

 

 

   
 

in the majority of
your 16 mm projection
needs the

MOVIE'MITE

will more than

provide the
°CONVEN|ENCE

'PERFORMANCE
oDEPENDABILITY OPRICE

'r

. 1' J’Nglf‘ 

I ‘ ' I .

RELIABILITY
FOR OVER
A QUARTER CENTURY

Write for Literature

MOVIE' MITE
CORPORATION

8811 Puritan Ave., Detroit, Michigan 48238

FREE

DIRECT PRICE
CATALOG

 

 
   

Exclusive
Low Profile .‘ ,
Arch—no toot  1
or knee 
interference x,

 
  

 
     
    
 

0/210?

FOLDNG TABLES

Thousands of parks, schools, clubs. churches
and other organizations save money with our
direct factory prices on folding tables, chairs,
risers, etc. Send today for FREE color catalog
on all our rugged, institutional equipment.

table and Chair
Storage trucks

Round arid Square tables

  
   

" tenable Boon l'irtitiols

 

_ N 6‘ let
.3 95:, 33,,“ THE MONROE co.

, p i . 181 Church Street
.. dwang  Colfax, Iowa

47

NONE
DOES HIS JOB
ALONE

J. Austin Smith

STORIES passing over my desk in re-
cent months have borne such titles
as “Goodby to Our Parks,” “The Con-
crete Cloverleaf Is Becoming Our Na-
tional Symbol,” “Park Lands Are Dis-
appearing,” and others in this same
alarming vein. Park and recreation pro-

 

fessionals can do more about this na-
tional emergency than any other single group. For in this
emergency you are both our Paul Reveres and our trained
frontline troops. However, you are both outsized and out-
numbered by the encroachers, the do-gooder developers and
by the big-budget and many-peopled highway and other
departments. And, what may be your worst enemy, the pub-
lic apathy which permits us to admire the majesty of a great
mountain, then allows its desecration in the name of what
some self-serving group says is “progress.” Or enables us
to feel nature’s grandeur in the stately trees a hundred years
in the growing, then allows them to be chopped down be-
cause they are in the way of what some tongue-in-cheek
sophist calls “progress.”

In the discouraging face of obstacles like these and others,
I would ask you to remember the power of unity. I would
ask you to remember the little Continental army fac-
ing across the Delaware a superb British army, greatly
superior in arms and numbers. Undoubtedly there was in
that little outnumbered group—maybe even now as in your
group—men who thought the odds too great, the effort
not worthwhile. But there is no record of deserters on that
day when teamwork turned history around in its tracks.

The Way to Professional Effectiveness

ONE of the most important goals in parks and recreation
must be to build for yourselves a favorable public image
—an image of leadership and unity, of professional compe-
tency and responsibility, and of aggressiveness in a righteous
cause. In this way. and by the use of public-relations tech-
niques, you will reach the public awareness and enjoy its
favorable opinion, the most powerful force in a free land.
This will put an end to the isolation from which you have
suffered too long. Your counsel and advice will be sought
by decision makers, instead of being ignored. It will get

This material is adapted from a keynote address delivered
at First Annual Meeting of the newly amalgamated Ohio
Parks and Recreation Association. MR. SMITH is president

of Locker Division of the leible Company of Loudonville,
Ohio.

48

EDITORIAL

 

A successful businessman reminds the parks and recreation
field of some blunt home truths

you respectful hearings in opposition to vociferous organ-
izations whose aggressiveness enables them to get the lion’s
share of new bond issues by whittling down the rightful
share for parks and recreation.

It will take you out of the present twilight zone where
you are expected blindly to support bond issues for parks
without having been consulted about it . . . and without even
at this late date knowing how the money will be spent, or
maybe even diverted. It will remove the requirement that
you competently operate buildings designed by a politically
selected architect who has never seen a park and recreation
operation; and it will give you the power to head off the
election of the lazy, incompetent, and indifferent. If this
sounds as though you are to become a combative force, let
those who say so make the most of it.

You Must Be Militant at Times

IT IS infinitely better to see the right and go down—to-
gether—fighting for it than, knowing it, to be untrue
to yourselves, your profession and your community. If this
means taking an active part in politics, then for heaven’j
sake do so; exercise this right for which so many have die
that we might enjoy. The reasons for doing it are as basic
as mankind’s hopes and aspirations, as dynamic as the stars
your work can put in a boy’s eyes. You must stand together
as a team . . . develop a plan and program, then make i
work . . . go to national conferences and learn from other
. . keep tellin
the public of your plans and acts. Invite business, school.
club and civic leaders to your meetings; try to understan

their aims and cause them to understand yours; remembe

. . make friends of your local newspapers .

   
  
   
  
 
 
  
    
     
 
  

that prestige must be earned.

Leadership Must be Demonstrated

THE REALIZATION that recreation is not centered in on

agency or person must lead to coordinated mobilizatior
in a common cause and with a common objective. This wil
result in united effort now lacking. This involvement, thi
participation, is a challenge to your leadership. It is one o
the most effective ways to turn tllc tide of public opinior
in your favor. It can lead to what Professor Smith of Mich
igan University calls a “Common Planning Council” d
signed for total performance to benefit the whole man. Am
the public will find justification for supporting you as com
munity advisors, friends, consultants, and human engineer
to help all the people usc their leisure time more produc

tively. #

RECREATIO.

A .REPORTER’S NOTEBOOK 

 

The First Step

FRANCE has its first national park.
The French government has set
aside 230 square miles between the Arc
and Isere River valleys in the Massif de
la Vanoise area in the Savoy Alps as a
nature preserve. France Actuelle com-
ments that this pioneer action has been
delayed so long because France has so
much unspoiled, unpopulated forest-
land and coastline and so many hilly
areas. The Ministry of Agriculture, in
making the announcement said, “France
has lagged far behind in the creation of
national parks. They have existed for
nearly a hundred years in the United
States. But the Vanoise National Park
is only the first step in a national cam-
paign. Others will soon follow.”

The new park area extends eastward
to the Italian frontier, joining Italy’s
Grand Paradise National Park. “To-
gether these two parks constitute an in-
ternational European park to conserve
natural riches of the two countries,”
the Ministry of Agriculture notes. The
Vanoise has a species of wild goats, and
these and other high-altitude animal
and bird-life are being protected by a
ban on .hunting within the park limits.
Fishing, however, is permitted. And a
chain of chalets is being built for cross-
country skiers and mountaineers near

the highest peak, the Grande-Casse (12,-
668 feet) .

011 the Alert

HAVING EXPERIENCED one of its dri-
est years in history, Los Angeles
County, California, has been the scene
of an all-out action to prevent fires in
its volatile watershed recreation areas.
The Los Angeles County Department of
'Parks and Recreation has joined with
the Los Angeles National Forest Service
and the Los Angeles County Fire De-
partment in developing a “Fire Hazard
'Emergency Alert Plan” in hOpes of cur-
tailing fires in eighteen hundred miles

iof watershed area. During the past

ithirty-five years, more than 622,000

Iacres of this region were destroyed by

' fire.

Action calls for patrolling hazardous

‘FEBRUARY, 1964

 

areas with mobile-radio-equipped vehi-
cles, creating checkpoints along the
highways where literature is distributed
to motorists who are stopped and ad-
vised to be cautious, and erecting road-
blocks at entrances to parks where ex-
treme danger exists. Seen conferring
above, are (left to right) Sim Jarvi, su-
pervisor, Angeles National Forest; Nor-
man S. Johnson, director, Los Angeles
County Department of Parks and Rec-
reation; and Keith E. Klinger, Los An-

geles County forester and fire warden:

Tourist Crop

NORTH CAROLINA is discovering that
recreation can be a cash crop too.
The Asheville Agricultural Develop-
ment Council has taken a sound step in
setting up a rural recreation committee
to promote the use of privately owned
lands in the mountain counties for com-

The

area includes two national forests, Great
Smoky National Park and the Blue
Ridge Parkway. Tourists are coming in
record numbers. Publicly operated
camp sites are severely overcrowded;
thousands of would-be campers have
been turned away. Over twelve million
visitors were recorded in the first nine
months of 1963.

Camp sites are only one of the eco-
nomic possibilities in privately owned
farm and forest areas. Other potential
commercial recreation ventures include

mercial recreation enterprises.

game farms, fishing lakes, tourist homes,
et cetera. Visitors have been flocking
to the gem mines in Macon County,
where they can do all the digging they
want for a small daily fee.

The first job of the rural recreation
committee will be to make an inventory
of privately operated, farm-related rec-
reation facilities in the area. Personnel
of all agricultural agencies will coop-
erate in carrying out this survey, which
will go into considerable detail regard-
ing rates, peculiar attractions of each
enterprise, plans for expansion, and the
like. Armed with this information, the
committee will promote a slide program
in community deveIOpment clubs and
other groups throughout the region to
show the economic possibilities of such
recreation ventures. This project will
assist Western North Carolina’s rural
landowners in taking advantage of the
region’s growing tourist crOp.

Recreation 011 Display

A SHOWCASE for recreation through-
out Rhode Island, the Old Slater

Mill Museum in Pawtucket will include
among its 1964 exhibitions such events
as:

0 “Strengthen America —- Scouting
Makes a Difference,” in cooperation
with Blackstone Valley District, Narra-
gansett Council, Boy Scouts of America.

0 Rhode Island Public Schools Art,

featuring art work by high-school stu-
dents.

0 Studio for Old-Time Decoration, in
cooperation with Mrs. Albert N. Peter-
son of Providence, teacher of old-time
household decorative art (tole and
furniture).

0 The Third Annual Rhode Island
Craftsmen Exhibition sponsored by the
Contemporary Craft Center of Provi-
dence.

0 Exhibition by the National Early
American Glass Club.

0 Pawtucket Playgrounds Arts and
Crafts.

0 Exhibitions by Connecticut Crafts-
men and of paisley and wool shawls
from the collection of Mrs. Robert H.
Lawson of Pawtucket.

0 An amateur Radio Exhibition, in co-

49

operation with amateur radio operators

throughout Rhode Island.
0 Ninth Annual Exhibition by Black-

stone Valley Artists.

The museum occupies the original
but eXpanded mill erected in 1793 by
Samuel Slater to house the first success-
ful enterprise in America for spinning
yarn on machines run by waterpower.

Rug Session

ENGLISH designer and rug weaver
Peter Collingwood will come to the
United States to conduct a six-week
summer session at the Haystack Moun-
tain School of Crafts in Deer Isle,
Maine. The session will comprise two
3-week periods of the regular summer
session and will be coordinated with the
other courses in ceramics, graphics, and
glass design. The dates of the rug ses-
sion will be June 22 to August 1 (three-
week minimum enrollment required.)
Mr. Collingwood was previously in-
vited to this country by Harriet Tidball
of the Shuttlecraft Guild to conduct a
ten-day rug workshop in Michigan in
October 1962. Original work by this
well-known artist has been seen in the
United States in an exhibition of ex-
amples of varied crafts by British artist—
craftsmen circulated by the Smithson-
ian Institution Traveling Exhibition
Service. There have been other indi-
vidual examples of Collingwood rugs
displayed in important New York stores
and exhibition centers across the coun-

try.

Share the Treats
I I ALLOWEEN brought both tricks and

treats to bedridden children in
Long Island College Hospital, Brook-
lyn, New York. The teenage council of
the Miccio-Red Hook Police Athletic
League visited the hospital’s children
wards, bringing with them candy bars,
pumpkins, toys, and entertainment fea-
turing marionettes, a ventriloquist, and
vocal club. Dave Smith is director of
center.

\Vishes on the \Ving
THE Japanese say that if you fold a

thousand paper birds your wishes
will come true! Therefore, Japanese
students sent two thousand good wishes
to the children at the Arts and Crafts

50

 

Center in Torrance, California, in the
form of over two thousand paper-folded
cranes. The center strung the birds on
chains and used them to decorate its
Christmas tree. Last summer, the Tor-
rance arts-and-crafts classes made pup-
pets for the play The Three Little Pigs
and sent them to the children of Japan
in care of Miss Sachiko Sakomizu, who
taught fiower arranging to children and
adults in Torrance last year. Sachiko
is now teaching English and recreation
philosophy in Japan and her students
folded the cranes.

Bagging Litter
THE first stage
of “Operation
Clean-Up,” a long-
range campaign by
the US. Bureau of
Land Management
to combat litter-
bugging on public
lands in Arizona
has been an outstanding success. He-
sponse was excellent according to Fred
J. Weiler, BLM state director. More
than six hundred litter bags and anti-
litter packets were distributed to the
1256 hunters checked through three
stations in the Arizona Strip, prime
hunting wilderness in the northwest
corner of the state, where the initial
phase of the program was conducted.
“Hunters cooperated fully,” the BLM
state director reported. “Not only did
they pick up their own trash and keep
their camp areas clean, they cleaned up
areas of refuse left by previous camp-
ers.”
BLM field men reported that scarcely
a single dirty camp was found and that
they issued more than ninety “Clean
Camp” certificates, signed by Mr.
Weiler and William S. Earp, Arizona
Strip district manager for BLM, com-
mending campers for having an excep-
tionally clean camp.

Trash barrels were placed at strategic
locations throughout the huntingarea
and more than forty barrels of refuse
were deposited by hunters. Hunters not
only cooperated by taking their full
trash barrels to central BLM collection
points, but also returned the empty bar-
rels to camp sites. BLM officials re-
ported that visitors to the area assisted

Mr. Weiler

in solving another common littering

problem—that of proper disposition of
full litterbags. Rather than leaving the
full bags scattered carelessly through-
out the area, hunters, almost without
exception, took them to the trash col-
lection points.

The campaign, designed to encour-
age hunters, campers, fishing parties,
and other outdoor enthusiasts to coop-
erate in a program to fight the ever-
growing problem of trash cluttering the
nation’s outdoors, was initiated during
the current hunting season on the Ari-
zona Strip as the first step in what is
expected by BLM to become a statewide
program. I

Litterally Speaking

0 Litter cleanup costs US. taxpayers
an estimated $500,000,000 a year. Ur-
ban communities spend nearly $300,-
000,000 of that amount for street clean-
ing. Another $100,000,000 goes for
litter removal from highways.

o Litter-caused fires represent an an--
nual loss of more than $22,000,000.

o In Los Angeles, litter costs taxpayers
ten cents a pound. The annual cleanup
bill in that city comes to more than
$4,000,000.

0 In New York City, three million tons
of litter—enough to fill the Empire
State Building fifteen times—must be
cleaned up each year.

0 At the Toledo, Ohio, city zoo, an es-
timated 264 tons of litter are removed
from the grounds each summer.

a Litter-strewn waters are dangerous
for swimmers and fishermen. Litter can
damage boats, cause serious accidents.
Litter-polluted waters are a threat to
marine and plant life.

0 An anti-litter drive in Oregon cut
litter-removal costs for roads and high-
ways nearly in half.

Notes 011 the Cuff

o The Friends of Animals, a group of
young Montrealers interested in animal
life, was organized recently under the
sponsorship of the Montreal Parks De-
partment, and already has a few hun-
dred members.

0 Some interesting new pups at Griffith
Park Zoo in Los Angeles are “raccoon
dogs” from Japan—wild dogs which
look as though they had been crossed
with raccoons.

RECREATION

PEOPLE

IN THE RECREATION

NEWS

SIX prominent professional and lay
leaders in the parks and recreation
field have recently been added to the Na-
tional Recreation Association’s Board
of Trustees (for other recent additions
to the Board see RECREATION September
1963). The new members include:

Louis B. Hous-

ton, director of
parks and recrea-
tion in Dallas, Tex-
as, since 1939. Mr.
Houston has a de-
gree in engineering
from Southern
Methodist University and was assistant
to the Dallas city manager before as-
suming his parks and recreation post.
He has been active in many organiza-
tions, including the Boy Scouts, Dallas
Council of Social Agencies, Texas Beach
and Pool Association (past-president) ,
Texas Turf grass Association (past-pres-
ident) , American Institute of Park Ex-
ecutives (past member of the board of
directors) , and many others. He is par-
ticularly interested in the conservation

of land areas for recreation and the de-
velopment of recreation facilities for all

 

age groups.

Hamilton B.

Mitchell of Rye,

New York, presi-
dent and chief op-
erating officer of
the Reuben H.
Donnelley Corpo-
ration. He has
served as chairman of the Recreation
Commission in Pelham, New York. His
participation in community recreation
projects stems from his basic interest in
child development. He is also particu-
larly concerned with the conservation
of land areas for recreation. He is in-

cluded in W ho’s W ho in America.

 

Mrs. P. P. luanion, Jr., vice-chair-

man of the Tulsa, Oklahoma, Park and
Recreation Board. She is the first and

FEBRUARY, 1964

only woman ever appointed to the Tulsa
board. Mrs. Manion has been active
in many local civic projects and served
on many local committees. She has held
numerous state and local positions with
the League of Women Voters and is a
director of the league’s state board. She
is also on the boards of the Tulsa Chap-
ter of the American Red Cross and of
the Tulsa Community Chest.

l}   ‘ 5‘? Charles E. Doell
of Minneapolis, su-
perintendent emer-
itus of the Minne-
apolis Parks De-
partment. Mr. Do-
ell has spent a half
century in the
parks and recreation movement and
continues to serve the field as a con-

  

 

 

EASTER EGGS

Delicious cocoanut cream eggs, coot-
ed with mouthwatering chocolote’.
Beautifully decoroted V2,] and 2 lbs.
sizes—individuotty boxed.

SELL FOR 50c—$l.00—$I.75 |

ORGANIZATION OFFICERS I

Send today for I

FREE candy samples, Fund I
Raising Manual,ond details I

coupon

on the CHERRYDALE FARMS

"5~STAR" PLAN.

 

 

sultant and teacher. He has a degree
in civil engineering. He has written in-
numerable magazine articles and is the
author or co-author of several books,
including the‘recem Elements of Park
and Recreation Administration (Bur-
gess, 1963). He is a past-president of
the American Institute of Park Execu-
tives and has held office in many na-
tional, state, and local organizations.

Albert V. La-
Biche, president
of laBiche’s fash-
ion stores in New

Orleans. He has

held office in many
local organizations
including the New
Orleans Salvation Army, is a member
of the Mississippi River Bridge Author-
ity and the New Orleans Chamber of
Commerce, and a former member of
the New Orleans Levee Board and Met-
ropolitan Crime Commission. He is es-
pecially interested in seeing that chil-
dren grow up safe and healthy and in

the conservation of land areas for rec-
reation. H

 

FOR CAMP AND
TEAM NEEDS . . . WIN
VALUABLE BONUS

HERE’S HOW IT WORKS FOR YOU

*FREE FUND RAISING HELP—— New manual tells

how to organize and conduct campaign to raise
the funds you need.

* TOP SELECTION OF BEST SELLERS—Choose from
14 quality, dairy-fresh CHERRYDALE FARMS CON-
FECTIONS made in our own kitchens —- all beauti-

fully packaged. Quality means reorders and more
profits!

air FREE ORGANIZATION LABELS — To identify and

advertise your group with each package sold, and
encourage recorders.

* FREE BONUS MERCHANDISE —- Extra

CHERRYDALE FARMS CONFECTION with every 50
Cases shipped.

* FREIGHT PREPAID SHIPMENTS—— On 12 or more

cases. 30 days credit to established organizations.
—-----—--‘-----------q

case of

I E. Cherry Sons & 00.. Inc., 5230 Baltimore Avenue, Phila. 43, Pa. I
Please send details on CHERRYDALE FARMS "5-STAR"

 

FUND RAISING PLAN and candy samples to I
NAME_______.___________ 456 I
CITY ZONE—__$TATE ‘ I
STREET ADDRESS . :

I ORGANIZATION TITLE I a

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 51

Mrs. Richard M. Colgate of Oldwick,
New Jersey, and Nantucket, Massachu-
setts. Playgrounds and recreation are
a Colgate family tradition. The Col-
gate family has worked closely with the
National Recreation Association and

has donated land for parks and play:

ground areas in New Hampshire and
New Jersey. Mrs. Colgate is very in-
terested in conservation and land pres-
ervation and served as NRA’S ofiicial
representative on the New Jersey Green
Acres Committee in 1961 promoting a

successful $60,000,000 state bond issue

for parks and recreation lands.

THE NEW director of the National
Park Service, George B. Hart-
zog, Jr., has announced several top-
management appointments within the
service. He has named Ben H.
Thompson as assistant director for re-

   

Mr. H artzog

sources studies; Jackson E. Price, as-
sistant director for specialized services;
Howard JV. Baker, assistant for op-
erations; Johannes E. N. Jensen, as-
sistant director for design and construc-
tiOn; Theodor R. Swem, assistant di-
rector for cooperative activities; and
Clarence P. Montgomery, deputy as-
sistant director for administration. The
appointments are a culmination of in-
tensive organizational structure study
in the NPS and vacancies created by
retirements and promotions.

Mr. Thompson joined the NPS in
1929 and has been assistant director in
charge of resource planning since 1961.
Mr. Price joined the NPS as chief coun-
sel in 1944 and later became assistant
director for conservation, interpreta-
tion, and use. Mr. Baker joined the
NPS in 1930 as architect and has been
NPS regional director in Omaha since
1950. Mr. Jensen, 3 registered profes-
sional engineer, had been with the arch-
itectural firm of Eero Saarinen and As-
sociates before joining the NPS in June
1963 as chief of construction division
in Washington, D.C. Mr. Swen] joined

52

 

the NPS in 1957 and has been chief of
the division of national park and rec-
reation area planning in Washington,

D.C. since 1963. Mr. Montgomery
joined the NPS as a fiscal clerk in York-

town, Virginia, in 1933 and has been
finance officer for the service in Wash-

ington, D.C. since 1955.

John H. ‘Vard is the new superin-
tendent of parks for the Los Angeles
City Recreation and Parks Department.
Mr. Ward has been acting superintend-
ent of parks since December 1961 and
has been responsible for the depart-
ment’s park branch since the retirement
of Fred W. Roewekamp last Septem-
ber. Mr. Ward began his employment
with the city as a landscape architec-
tural assistant in September 1948. His
appointment as park superintendent
was made from a civil service list for
the post.

Frederick Chester Bode, a sixty-five-
year-old retiree, who spent the last nine
years working for the Rochester, New
York, Recreation Bureau, plans to write
a book on how to run a senior citizens
center. Mr. Bode is also vice-president
of the Rochester-Monroe Chapter of the
American Association of Retired Per-
sons. He has been collecting material
for the last ten years and for five years
has been writing ten to twelve letters a
week for information.

Elizabeth A. Mil-
ler joins the staff
of the National Rec-
reation Association
as of February 1 as
national training
consultant. Miss
Miller will conduct
leadership training workshops, advise
on recreation programs, and give spe-
cial attention to helping agencies ex-
pand and enrich their programs for
girls and women. Her first assignment
with NRA will be to conduct several
workshops for the youth activities lead-
ers on Air Force bases in the Midwest
and Great Lakes areas.

Miss Miller has been teaching at
Southwest Missouri State College in her
home city of Springfield, Missouri,
where she served as director of recrea-
tion for the Public Park Board from

 

1958-62. In 1963 Miss Miller com-
pleted work on her Master of Science
degree in recreation from the Univer-
sity of Illinois. She has a BS degree
from George Williams College, attended
the YWCA Professional School and has
worked with the YWCA and YMCA.

In honor of Con-
rad Wirth, the
new administrative
building at the Na-
tional Park Serv-
Stephen T.
Mather Interpreta-
tive Training and
Research Center in Harper’s Ferry,
West Virginia, will be named the Con-
rad L. VVirth Hall for the recently rc-
tired director of the National Park Serv-
ice. The Mather Center will be dedi-
cated early in 1964. Mr. Wirth retired
as NPS director on January 11 after
twenty-two years with the service.

twelve as director (see RECREATION,
December 1963).

ice’s

They love New York! And they are say-
ing it with flowers—and trees and jet
fountains and an animated clock for the
zoo. Five beauty lovers have banded
together ,to form a nonprofit philan-
thropic organization known as Make
New York Beautiful, Inc., and have set
out to beautify their city in a grand
manner. George Delacorte who has
already given the city the Delacorte
Theatre and the Alice-in-Wonderland
statue in Central Park is donating a
twenty-two-jet fountain at the foot of the
Columbus Monument in Columbus Cir-
He will also donate two fountains
for the front entrance of the Metropoli-
tan Museum of Art and an animated
clock fOr the Central Park Zoo. Doug-
las Leigh will landscape four blocks of
the Times Square area malls. Other
members of the group are Mrs. Orvil
E. Dryfoos, Andrew Goodman, and

cle.

Peter Grimm.

Want to join? Says Mr. Delacorte.
aged seventy, “\Ve want guys who are
going to kick off and want to do some-
thing for their city before they do—
give maybe $100,000 or $500,000.”
{For more on the art of giving with a
flourish, see “It’s a Gift!” RECREATION,
January 1964 and “Public Gifts” by Jo-
seph E. Curtis, February 1963.)

RECREATION

AS WE GO TO PRESS

 

} ANTI-SMOKING campaigns and pro-
grams—some of dubious value—have
followed the Surgeon General’s report
linking smoking with lung cancer. The
National Better Business Bureau is con-
I cerned with the increased sales of pills
and programs for breaking the cigar-
ette-smoking habit. The bureau says
, that no pills, tablets, lozenges, liquids,
' or injections do any good whatsoever
in themselves. These products cost up
to $30.00, with most of the investment
going into promotion.
, The bureau states firme that it
“knows of no product which will, in
itself, cure the tobacco habit or per-
manently eliminate the desire for to-
bacco. Although some products may
serve as an aid, primarily psychological,
I to some persons, a determination to
stop, coupled with persistence and will
t power, is essential for those who would
moderate or abstain from smoking.”

; o In St. Louis, police say they will en-
force long-ignored state laws prohibit-
? ing smoking by minors and the sale of

cigarettes to them. For boys and girls
' up to sixteen, the police will stop short
' of making arrests. They will turn their

reports over to the juvenile authorities
I who will determine whether cases

should be followed up. Offenders aged
" seventeen and eighteen will be arrested
l and booked. The law carries a line, on
t conviction, of up to $10.00.

5'0 In Fort Wayne, Indiana, a recent

Ilsurvey revealed that one out of every
'ten youngsters in the sixth through

[ninth grades of the public schools
a smoked cigarettes. The survey was con-
ducted among 8,833 pupils, mostly in
the eleven-to-fifteen age bracket.

I

0 Teachers were urged to stop smoking
immediately by the director of the Mas-
hsachusetts state colleges, Dr. John Gil-
. lespie. He declares, “The big difficulty
_ in teaching pupils that smoking is a
cursed habit results from ‘authority’
figures—teachers, clergymen, physi-
cians, parents, [recreation leaders]-—-
who set a foul example by smoking.”

%%

CITYWIDE TOURS by the New York
Shakespeare Festival calls for free open-
air productions this summer of Shake-
speare’s plays in twenty-five New York
ity parks and playgrounds. The city
oard of Estimate has allocated $170,-
0 for the tour in addition to the $100,-
000 it already gives each year toward
the presentation of the festival’s plays
t the Delacorte Theater in Central
Park. The tour allotment will be sup-

     
 
 
 
  
   
 
     

EBRUARY, 1964

plemented by $35,000 already donated
by George T. Delacorte for a mobile

stage. ( F or more on Mr. Delacorte and
his gifts to New York City, see Page 52.)

%

} CRITERIA for evaluating recreation
potential of rivers still in their free-
flowing state will be established by a
joint US. Department of Interior and
Department of Agriculture Wild Rivers
Study Team. It has selected sections of
twelve rivers with outstanding recrea-
tion potential for detailed study. This
could lead to designation of a nation-
wide system of free-flowing rivers. Such
a system would protect and maintain
certain streams with high recreation
value in their free-flowing state so that
unique fishing, canoeing, floating, and
other outdoor recreation opportunities
could be maintained.

The segments of the rivers selected
for detailed study are the three forks
of the Flathead in Montana, the Skagit
and its Sauk and Suiattle tributaries in
Washington, the Rogue in Oregon, the
Klamath in California, the Rio Grande
in New Mexico, the upper Green in Wy-
oming, and the Niobrara in Nebraska.
Also selected are the St. Croix and
Namekagon in Minnesota and Wiscon-
sin, the North Branch of the Susque-
hanna in New York and Pennsylvania,
the upper Hudson in New York, the Big
South Fork of the Cumberland in Ken-
tucky and Tennessee, and the headwa-
ters of the Savannah in North Carolina,
South Carolina, and Georgia.

go’s

} RETIRED EXECUTIVES of the National
Park Service will make up a Committee
of Senior Executives to serve on a con-
sultative basis and assist the NPS on
matters of broad policy and program.
Committee members will serve without
compensation. The committee, not lim-
ited in number, will consist initially of
Horace M. Albright, now residing in
Los Angeles; Newton B. Drury, Berke-
ley, California; Eivind T. Scoyen, Vi-
salia, California; Hillory A. Tolson,
Washington, D.C.; and Conrad L.

Wirth, Chevy Chase, Maryland. (For.

more on. Mr. Wirth, see Page 52.)
George B. Hartzog, J r., director of the
NPS, explains that, “From time to time,
this committee will be invited to meet
with. the operating ofhcials—our re-
gional directors and assistant directors
——-when we are considering and formu-
lating the broad programs of the serv-
ice. Individual members may also be

called upon to perform special assign-

ments.” ( F or other changes in. the Na-
tional Park Service, see Page 52.)

} AN OUTSTANDING ORNITIIOLocIST, Dr.
Arthur Augustus Allen, died on January
18 at the age of seventy-eight. Dr. Al-
len, a member of the Cornell University
faculty for forty-six years, founded the
university’s ornithology laboratory in
1911 and was subsequently credited
with a number of significant contribu-
tions to the study of birdlife. He was
also the founder and the second vice-
president of the Wildlife Society and a
member of the advisory board of the
National Association of Audubon Soci-
eties. He was the author of Stalking
Birds with Color Camera and eight
other books on birdlife as well as nu-
merous articles.

THINGS YOU SHOULD KNOW
m

> A SPORTS PARTICIPATION survey, made
by the Athletic Institute and revealed
in Sportscope of December 30, 1963,
shows that the greatest gains in partici-
pation in the two-year period from 1961
to 1963 were in volleyball—-—20,000,000
to 60,000,000; roller skating, 15,000,-
000 to 26,000,000; camping, 5,500,000
to 12,000,000; water skiing, 6,000,000
to 8,000,000; target archery, 5,500,000
to 7,000,600; and duck—pin bowling,
560,000 to 2,225,000. Sports that had
Over 10,000,000 participants each are
billiards, 18,000,000; boating, 37,500,-
000; ten-pin bowling, 32,000,000;
camping, 12,000,000; cycling, 55,000,-
000; fishing, 32,600,000; shuffleboard,
10,000,000; roller skating, 26,000,000;
table tennis, 20,000,000; and volleyball,
60,000,000.

) GUIDANCE MATERIAL for Royal Cana-
dian Air Force recreation activities are
now included in a lively newsletter
called the Phoenix. The first issue (Vol.
1, No. I) appeared in December 1963.
The newsletter covers sports and fitness,
arts and crafts, cultural and social ac-
tivities and is full of information and
resources. The first issue had an edi-
torial by Wing Commander J. K. Tett,
head ofthe RCAF Recreation Branch.

} TIIE SIZE, SHAPE, AND FUNCTIONS of a
marina today are highly flexible. A
guidebook for the community as well as
private investor interested in'marina
development is available from the Na-
tional Association of Engine and Boat
Manufacturers, 420 Lexington Avenue,

53

New York 10017, for $2.00. It covers
modern marina concepts, planning for
profit, development of the marina plan,
financing and cost estimating, and pub-
lic relations. Profusely illustrated with
drawings and photographs, this striking
spiralbound pamphlet is a good model
for annual reports of all kinds. (For
more on marinas, see Page 59.)

} BUILDING a sound foundation for a
long-range river-system planning, de-
velopment, and management agency is
the principal theme of the first annual
report of the Delaware River Basin
Commission, 25 Scotch Road, Trenton,
New Jersey. Laying the foundation for
this four-state (New York, New Jersey,
Pennsylvania, Delaware) and federal
agency involved a vast combination of
administrative organizing, stafIing, com-
piling of knowledge, early programing,
and establishing of cooperative rela-
tions with other agencies. This is an-
other report meriting study not only
for its contents but its appearance.

D RECREATION FOR INCOME. Two new
pamphlets recently issued by the U.S.
Department of Agriculture are designed
to aid the development of rural areas
for recreation enterprises. Addressed
to private land owners and operators,
Rural Recreation Enterprises for Profit
covers all aspects of private rural recre-
ation resources and tells of the assist-
ance available from the U.S. Depart-
ment of Agriculture and other public
agencies to develop the nation’s rural
recreation resources. Addressed to the
general public seeking outdoor recrea-
tion areas, Rural Recreation describes
the facilities and opportunities now
available and explains what the average
citizen can do to help increase the out-
door recreation available to him by sup-
porting private and public develop-
ments. The pamphlets are available for
3.20 each from the U.S. Government
Printing Office, Washington 20402.

) THE NUMBER of senior citizens (those
aged smty-hve and over) continues to

grow rapidly, and now approaches the
18,000,000 mark, a gain of one million

since the 1960 Census. It is estimated
that this age group will total twenty
million by 1970 and may number
twenty-four and a half million by 1980.

The largest concentration of those over
sixty-five is not in either of the so-called
“retirement states” of Florida and Cali-
fornia but in New York. California
comes next.

9 FINANCIAL AID for graduate students
in public recreation and park admin-

54

istration, therapeutic recreation and
rehabilitation, outdoor recreation, col-
lege-union administration, outdoor and
other recreation settings (armed forces,
business and industry, voluntary youth-
serving agencies, et cetera) are avail-
able at the University of Illinois in
Champaign. These offer opportunity to
combine graduate study with teaching,

 
    
 
 
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   

COMING EVENTS

  

National Social Workers Month, F eb-

ruary 15-March 15. For information, pro-
gram aids, publicity kits, write to James
H. Scull, National Association of Social
Workers, 2 Park Avenue, New York 10016.

18th Annual Great Lakes Park Train-
ing Institute, February 24-28. Potawa-
tomi Inn, Pokagon State Park, Angola, I n-
diana. For information write to Depart-
ment of Recreation, HPER Building, In-
diana University, Bloomington, Indiana.

National Hobby Month, March 1-30.
For information write to Hobby Guild of
America, Albert Bassuk, President, 550
Fifth Avenue, New York.

Children’s Art Month, March. For in-
formation, write to The Crayon, Water
Color and Craft Institute, 420 Lexington
Avenue, New York 10017.

National Wildlife Week, March 15-21.
For information write to Russ J. Neuge-
bauer, Assistant Chief, 1412 Sixteenth
Street, N.W., Washington, D.C.

Study Conference, Association for
Childhood Education International,
March 29-April 3, Portland, Oregon. For
further information, write to Association
for Childhood Education International,
3615 Wisconsin Avenue, N.W., Washing-
ton, D. C. 20016.

National Library Week, April 12-18.
For further information, write to National
Library Week Program, 58 West 40th
Street, New York 10018.

Bike Safety Week, April 20-25. For in-
formation write to Ralph J. Gentles, Pub-

lic Relations Ofiicer, Optimist Interna-
tional, 4494 Lindell Boulevard, St. Louis.

Annual Conference of State Execu-
tives on Aging, April 26-29, Shoreham
Hotel, Washington, D. C. For further in-
formation, write to Charles Lavin, OHice
of Aging, U.S. Department of Health, Edu-
cation and Welfare, Washington, D. C.
20201.

Canada-United States Goodwill Week,
April 27-May 2. For information write to
LA. Hapgood, Assistant Secretary, Ki-

wanis International, 101 East Erie Street,
Chicago 60611.

National Safe Boating Week, June 28-
July 4. For information, write to National
Association of Engine and Boat Manufac-

turers, Inc., 420 Lexington Avenue, New
York.

6th National Jamboree for Boy Scouts
of America, July, Valley Forge, Pennsyl-
vania. For further information, write to
National Council BSA, New Brunswick,
New Jersey.

research, and public service. For further
information write to Professor Charles
K. Brightbill, Head, Department of Rec-
reation and Municipal Park Adminis-
tration, 104- HuiI Gym, University of 11-
linois, Champaign, Illinois 61822. -

Council on Aging will be held at the
Edgewater Beach Hotel in Chicago,
February 11-16, not February 17-20 as
previously announced by the Council.

) COMING TO THE FAIR? One of the dis-
tinctive pleasures of a visit to New York
City is dining out. There are more dif-
ferent kinds of restaurants here than i
in any other city on earth. This is

pointed up in a new edition of the free ‘

I
I
l
I
} 'IIIE ANNUAL MEETING of the National l

Visitors New Y orlc Restaurant Guide
which lists some three hundred eating
places. Given with the name and loca-
tion of each restaurant is its type of
cuisine, specialities of the house, enter-
tainment offered and prices. Free copies I
are available from the New York Con- ‘
vention and Visitors Bureau, 90 East
42nd Street, New York 10017. Also

available free is a Visitors Shopping

Guide to New Y orlc City.

> THE FIRST GUIDE to provide complete
information about financial assistance
for students interested in training for
the profemions of psychiatry, psychol-

ogy, nursing, social work, occupational
therapy, and recreation has just been
published by the National Association
for Mental Health. The twenty-page,
illustrated booklet, called A Guide to
Scholarships, Fellowships and Loans in
the Mental Health Field, covers types of
financial aid available, names and ad-
dresses of major sources of financial as-
sistance, and suggested steps to secure
this aid. Copies are available for $.50

from the association at 10 Columbus

Circle, New York 10019.

) WHAT IS UNESCO? A new publica-
tiOn by the U.S. National Commission
for UNESCO, The American Interest in
UNESCO, describes the importance of
the United Nations Educational, Scien-
tific and Cultural Organization today
through its activities in education, mass
communications, science, and culture.
The publication is meant for the teacher,
the student, the discussion group leader,
and the interested citizen who wants a
succinct and easily readable account of
UNESCO and U.S. participation in that
organization. The brochure is on sale
for 3.30 from the U.S. Government
Printing Office, Washington, D. C.
20402.

RECREATION

 

Start planning
to go to
the Congress

 

Arrows indicate
Congress head-
quarters hotels:
Deouville in fore-
ground with Car-
illon iust behind.

A LOOK AHEAD AT MIAMI BEACH

Charles M. Christiansen

HE SETTING for the 1964 Congress—the oceanfront

T of Miami Beach, Florida—will truly be one of the

most enticing in the long history of the Congresses.

The Congress will be held a week later than usual—October
4-8.

Delegates have many special features and events in store
for them. These include a “Poor Man’s Night Club Tour”
(of recreation center evening programs and entertainment),
“Pic-a Tour” (quite a choice), and a “Blind Man’s Square
Dance.” Hank Swan, chairman of the Congress Program
Planning Committee, is well aware of the outside interests
to attract delegates from the Congress. Therefore, he and
the Program Committee have resolved to offer the most
outstanding Congress possible and to provide time during
the Congress week for delegates to partake of the attractions
of this area.

Certainly, one important consideration for the success of
any Congress is the eating and housing facilities. Miami
Beach offers the best yet in this respect. The two Congress
headquarters hotels, the Carillon and the Deauville, are
spacious and elegant. Both are located on the ocean, each
lwith its own private beach as well as luxurious swimming
pool. All rooms are spacious, air-conditioned, and beauti-
fully decorated. Of course, TV and radio are available in
all rooms complimentary. The rates will be very reasonable
also (to be published next month). All hotels will offer a
Modified American Plan (MA) for registered guests (op-
tional) . For $3.00 a day extra a delegate may have a com-
plete breakfast (juice, eggs, cereal, ham or bacon, sweet
rolls, beverages, et cetera) and dinner (complete five-course
dinner with seven to ten choices) .

Another hotel where delegates may stay is the Sherry
Frontenac. This hotel also offers MA, private beach on
ocean, private pool, air-conditioned rooms, TV, and is also
attractive and spacious, although not as large as the head-

quarters hotels. It is only half a block from the Congress
headquarters.

 

MR. CIIRISTIANSEN is secretary of the National Recreation
Congress.

FEBRUARY, 1964

Four motels which are centrally located to Congress
Headquarters are Her Majesty, the Garden of Allah, the
Oasis, and the Rowe Congress. None of the motels are on
the ocean. However, all have private swimming pools and
are within a short walking distance of the Congress head-
quarters and a free public beach. All motels are air-
conditioned and have free parking. Kitchenettes are availa-
ble at a small extra charge. MA is not offered at the motels.

If you should happen to arrive a few days early or stay
a few days later, you may want to visit some of the interest-
ing sights in the Miami area. For instance, Vizcaya, the
estate of the late James Deering, is now open to the public
as an art museum. Vizcaya was built in 1914 in the style
of the great 16th and 17th century houses of Italy. Or you
may wish to visit the Seaquarium which has one of the
largest collections of tropical fishes and marine life in the
world. Animal lovers will want to see the “Monkey Jungle”
and the “Parrot Jungle.” You might like to watch the Uni-
versity of Miami play California in the Orange Bowl on
Friday, October 9. Of course, there are numerous fishing
trips that can be scheduled any day of the week. Beautiful
public golf courses are available. Other interesting attrac-
tions in this area include the Miami Wax Museum, Musa
Isle Seminole Indian Village, or a boat ride in a glass-
bottom boat into the Gulf Stream.

Other tours might include a trip to Silver Springs, Cypress
Gardens, or a boat trip to the Everglades. The Program
Committee is investigating the possibility of a three-day
cruise to Nassau after the Congress. There will be more
information on this in a later issue of RECREATION.

From this brief picture of .the setting for the 1964 Con-
gress, we think that you will agree this will be an exciting
Congress. We expect many wives and families to attend this
year. You might also plan to take in the New York World’s
Fair as well on your way to or from Florida ( see Page 59).

If you have any questions or suggestions for the 1964
Congress, write to the National Recreation Congress, 8 West

Eighth Street, New York 10011. #-

THIS IS YOUR NRA

PART I

S a recreation administrator,
A leader, teacher, student, or other
professional visiting New York
City, you will probably be planning to
drop in at 8 West Eighth Street—head-
quarters of the National Recreation As-
sociation. This is in the famous old
buildings which once housed the Whit-
ney Museum of American Art and the
studios of Daniel Chester French, Ger-
trude Vanderbilt Whitney, and many
other well-known artists. NRA head-
quarters is just a block from historic
Washington Square and the downtown
campus of New York University, and a
few doors from Fifth Avenue; it is
easy for the out-of-town visitOr to find
and easy for everybody to reach. Stop
by if you’re coming to the World’s Fair
or en route to the 1964 Recreation Con-
gress in Miami Beach ( see Pages 55 and
59).

NRA headquarters backs on pictur-
esque MacDougal Alley where in 1907
sculptress Gertrude Vanderbilt Whitney
rented a studio at Number 19. The
wealthy Mrs. Whitney soon became
aware of the acute plight of her fellow
artists in Greenwich Village, especially
those who did not conform to the cur-
rent academic mold. In 1914, she con-
verted a house at 8 West Eighth Street,
adjoining her studio, into rent-free stu-
dios and exhibition space. Among the
liberal artists who helped shape the poli-
cies of the Whitney Studio exhibitions
—and later those of the Whitney Mu-
seumhwere Robert Henri, Arthur D.
Davis, John Sloan, \Villiam Clackens,
Guy Pene du Bois, Allen Tucker, Eu-
gene Speicher, Charles Sheeler, Henry
Schnakenberg, \lexander Brook, and
critic Farbes Watson.

In 1930, Mrs. Whitney remodelled
three buildings—8, 10, and 12 West

56

Eighth Street—and founded the ‘Vhit-

ney Museum of American Art, with her
collection of about five hundred pieces
of American non-academic art as its

nucleus. The museum opened to the
public on November 18, 1931.

The Whitney remodelling had incor-
porated the studio at Number 12 once
used by Daniel Chester French. Here,

he had worked on such pieces as the

seated Lincoln for the Lincoln Memo-
rial, the statues of Wendell Phillips in
Boston’s Public Gardens, Commodore
Perkins in Annapolis, Ralph Waldo
Emerson in Concord, Governor Ogle-
thorpe in Savannah, the figures for the
Du Pont Fountain in Washington, the
Russell Alger Memorial in Detroit, and
the “Alma Mater” for Columbia Uni-
versity.

 

National Recreation Association Headquarters, New York City

RECREATION-

l

l
I‘
l

i
 PACIEIC SOUTHWES

NATIONAL RECREATION
ASSOCIATION
FIELD SERVICE

*OFFICES

    
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
    
    
    
   
    
 

When the Whitney Museum moved
,uptown to its present site on West 54th
Street, adjoining the Museum of Mod-
ern Art, the buildings on Eighth Street
were converted into the headquarters
of the NBA and now also shelter Amer—
ican Youth Hostels. The Thomas Hart
Benton murals completed in 1932 for
the library of the Whitney now look
down on the editorial staff of RECREA—
TION Magazine.

You MAY BE just dropping in at NRA
headquarters for a friendly chat
or to get acquainted, or keeping a pre-
arranged appointment with a staff mem-
ber, planning to use the large recreation
Ilibrary, which has volumes going back
into the history of the recreation move-
ment in this country and the latest
books on recreation subjects, or just
taking a tour of this interesting build-
' g. Whatever the reason for your call,
,‘ou know that you can expect a hearty
welcome and any help that the NRA
staff can give you—for the NRA is first
of all a service organization.

If you are a Service Associate of the
Association, or if your agency is a Serv-

H
H
H

Q

FEBRUARY, 1964

PACIFIC}! NORTHWEST

GREAT

L
i _......___g
' 'I
a
I
I

i
SOUTHWEST *

ice Affiliate, you are an even closer
member of the family, and are familiar
with the many services available to you.
You have previously established a deh-
nite relationship to the NRA. You
know, for instance, that the latest books
on recreation, displayed in the Recrea-
tion Book Center, ust off the reception
room, are available to you at a discount,
and that the receptionist will see that
you get in touch with any staff member
you would like to see. She will intro-
duce you to the librarian who will locate
that reference you are hunting or find
you a comfortable corner in which to
browse.

THE National Recreation Association

is a nationwide, nonprofit, nonpar-
tisan, and nonsectarian agency con-
cerned exclusively with recreation, and
has been so since it was established as
the Playground Association of America
fifty-eight years ago. Having grown
and changed according to the recrea-
tion needs of people through the years,
the NRA serves the nation to the end
that every child shall have a place to
play in safety and that every person,

MIDDLE ATLANTIC

LAKES   I» '  ‘

 

In addition to its headquarters staff in New York City, NRA has nine district offices to serve you.

young and old, shall have an opportu-
nity to find the best and most satisfying
use of his expanding free time.

The NRA concept of recreation in-
cludes creative and cultural activities,
social recreation, and individual recre-
ation interests that can carry over into
the personal life of the individual, as
well as sports and athletics. It covers
not only playgrounds but recreation
centers, day and overnight camps,
parks, museums, children’s zoos, art
centers, housing developments, includ-
ing both program and facilities. It is
concerned with family recreation in the
home, in the camp, and in the commu-
nity center, and its activities naturally
reflect concern for physical fitness, and
for special groups such as the aging,
the physically or mentally handicapped,
patients in hospitals, and other institu-
tionalized groups.

The Association’s primary aim is to
serve the recreation movement in Amer-
ica. Its relation to other recreation
agencies and their leaders, at federal,
state, or local levels, can be summed up
in the word service. To serve you, there
are fourteen departments and eighty

57

staff persons in the building at 8 W est
Eighth Street, and nine district offices
across the United States ( see map).

EACH NRA district is served by one

or more district representatives
who serve under the Held director at
NRA headquarters. They represent
yield service, keystone of the NRA or-
ganization. There are eleven NRA dis-
trict representatives, and they serve all
fifty of the United States, plus Alberta,
British Columbia, and Saskatchewan in
Canada. They are the on-the-spot men
and women who come, when called, to
help local communities help themselves
in setting up community-wide recrea-
tion services and solving recreation
problems. Leadership training special-
ists also serve in the field department.

Backing up each district represent-
ative are a host of headquarters serv-
ices that actually make NRA as close
to you as your nearest mailbox. A
letter or call to the NRA Correspond-
ence and Consultation Department will
bring information on forms of organi-
zation, sources of equipment, results of
surveys on land values and recreation,
safety, fund-raising—wand much more.
A query to the Program Services De-
partment can help you solve problems
of what’s good for youngsters, oldsters,
or in-betweeners.

Interested in filling a job or finding
one? The Personnel Services Depart-
ment can help you do either———plus of-
fering information on job descriptions
and standards, methods of administra-
tion, recruitment, colleges with recrea-
tion curricula, and other personnel-
related matters. In addition, the annual
Institutes in Recreation Administra-
tion, conducted by Personnel Services,
are of great value to hundreds of top

recreation executives. Applicants over

the quota have to be turned away every
year.

The Consultation Service on Recrea-
tion for the Ill and Handicapped offers
specialized help in a new and fast-grow-
ing field. Its publications are available
at cost and its personalized advice an-
swers your special questions. The Con-
sultation Service, too, offers training
institutes that have helped many hospi-
tals, homes for the aged, recreation de-
partments, and health groups establish
recreation programs for those who are
ill or who are mentally or physically
handicapped. Most interesting recently
was its experimental project with the
homebound (see RECREATION, June
1961). Its monthly column in the mag-
azine is familiar to all readers of
RECREATION.

BY SPECIAL ARRANGEMENT, the Sur-

veys and Planning Department
conducts studies of recreation resources
and needs and proposes plans for long-
range development. No community is
too large and none too small—surveys
have been made for a whole state, for
counties, cities, and villages.

The Public Information and Educa-
tion Department helps you with public
relations problems—but it also tells the
story of the importance of recreation
to the public at large. It provides the
materials communities use to tell their
own story during June Is National Rec-
reation Month promotion.

NRA maintains a central Recreation
Library at its headquarters and there
are branches in Toledo, Kansas City,
and Los Angeles. The Recreation Book
Center screens the books of hundreds
of publishers, approves those to be
listed in A Guide to Books on Recrea-
tion (AGBOR) , and offers you the con-
venience of one source from which to
purchase all the different recreation

books you need for your department.

The Volunteer Service Bureau is in
touch with hundreds of volunteers
throughout the country, providing them
materials to gain added support for rec-
reation locally and nationally.

Besides RECREATION Magazine, NRA
publishes more than two hundred books
and pamphlets. Responsible for the de-
sign and production of these basic rec-
reation references is the Special Pub-
lications Department.

THE DEPARTMENTS of NRA could not

serve you effectively if they were
not constantly in touch with what’s go-
ing on in government, the arts, the sci-
ences, education, religious groups, and
social welfare. The voice of NRA is
heard on your behalf at Congressional
hearings, influencing the form of bills
dealing with recreation and open space.
NRA representatives on the committees
of the National Social Welfare Assem- ,
bly help to shape standards for all na-
tional agencies and to call their atten-
tion to the problems raised by Ameri-
ca’s expanding leisure. The NRA staff
consultant on the cultural arts keeps in
touch with theater, dance, and music
groups to serve you better in your com-
munity.

Whether it’s a \Vhite House Confer-
ence on Children or a meeting of the
National Committee on Aging, the Wil-
derness Association, the National Cul-
tural Center, or the Peace Corps, some
one from NRA is on hand—not just to
listen and report to you, but to give ac-
tive leadership to the group’s thinking.
In short, under the guidance of the Ex-
ecutive Director’s office, almost a hun-
dred men and women of NRA’s staff
in all parts of the United States are
ready to serve you through eleven dis-
trict offices and twelve headquarters de-
partments. #

CIENCE is not the heal] and end-all of life. You may know all about the sun and all about the
S atmosphere and all about the rotation of the earth, and yet miss the radiance of the sunset. Cul-
ture has to do with the less material aspects of life, like intellectual proficiency and the love of beauti—
ful things. It includes knowledge, belief, art, morals, and other attributes acquired by man In the
shared existence we call society. It is false to think of culture as something we seek merely as a
distraction from the workaday world. Neither is it a craving for sensation, a fastidious search for
strange refinement, or a jealous cultivation of art as a thing preserved for the elite. Culture is, Collec—
tively, the sum of special knowledge that accumulates in any nation or large united group and IS the
common property of all its members. Culture is also an individual thing. Man does not live by bread
alone. He turns from labor to look inward, examining himself, and outward, speculating on life and
what is beyond life. These thoughts he expresses through speech and drama, music and ballet, paint—
ing and sculpture, poetry and literature. These are the things that give us our status as human beings.

—-—From Royal Bank of Canada Monthly Letter, October 1962.

58

RECREATION

DROP ANCHOR
AT THE FAIR

Stop by on your way to the

Recreation Congress in Miami Beach

OME TO THE FAIR—the New York
World’s Fair, opening April 22

—by land, sea, and air. If you

come by sea you will find a berth at a
modern marina which will serve as the
waterborne entrance to the fair and re-
main as a permanent facility after the
fair is terminated. The marina will con-
sist of a system of interconnecting,
floating Fiberglas causeways and finger
slips, incorporating seven circular
service islands. Initially, the marina
will berth over seven hundred boats
and eventually accommodate up to two
thousand. The design sponsor is the
Owens-Corning Fiberglas Corporation.

While the Fiberglas pontoon and
deck system has been used with great
success on the California coast, the
“service island” concept used here will
be an innovation. A total of seven is-
lands are called for in the plan—three,
50 feet in diameter, and four, 38 feet in
diameter. They will serVe a number of
functions: retail selling of boats and
engines; housing food, drink, and ice-
dispensing (coin-operated) machines;
and fueling of boats.

The circular pontoon base of the
islands will be constructed of welded
steel incased with Flakeglas, a new cor-
rosion protective coating by Owens-
Corning. The roofs of the islands will

be translucent, molded Fiberglas, de-
signed and illuminated in a fashion
which will be extremely striking at
night. The islands are secured and
move up and down with the water level
on a central steel piling which pene-
trates the center of the island and pro-
jects through the roof.

Aside from the major assignment of

FEBRUARY, 1964.

Fiberglas for deck, flotation, and island
construction, there will be other impor-
tant subsidiary uses. A utility console
has been designed which will incor-
porate a number of electrification func-
tions. A molded Fiberglas housing will
provide all electric utilities: a low-
profile illumination for headers and
walkways, power outlets for 110- and
220-volt takeoff, and an integral box
and jack for rental telephone. A mold-
ed Fiberglas box has been designed to
serve as utility deck cabinet and to
function alternately as a garbage con-
tainer. The above two components are
offered in a most haphazard and untidy
fashion by the average marina today,
contributing to the present lack of clean-
liness and inefficient service.

Molded Fiberglas materials will be
used extensively in lesser applications in
the systems: electric junction boxes,
light poles, marker and mooring buoys.
Any number of accessory applications

have been selected where the material '

will serve well and justify its usage.
Advantages of this Fiberglas flota-
tion system includes maintenance of a
constant level in relation to boats at all
times  eight-foot tide range in Flushing
Bay) and great flexibility. By simply
removing pile and disconnecting seg-
ments a new layout can be established.
Fiberglas deck panels and pontoons
mean vastly reduced maintenance—no
rot, rust, or corrosion; no splintered
decks, no painting; molded-in anti-skid
deck, easy to keep clean; impervious to
attack from marine organism; no water
absorption—leak-proof; resistance to
ice damage; and light weight for easy
installation and removal. 

 

 

The marina of the future at the

New York World's Fair will be
built almost entirely of Fiber-

glas-reinforced plastic (FRP).

 

Advantages of this Fiberglas
flotation system: headers and
fingers are kept at a constant
level in relation to the boats.

Looking underneath Fiberglas-

reinforced plastic prefabricated
pontoons set in a wood frame-

work to form prototype header.

59

NRA DISTRICT RECREATIO

 

A PACIFIC SOUTHWEST

 

HE West Coast is exploding recreation-wise; therefore
“Living in the Explosive 60’s” is the theme of the 16th
Annual California and Pacific Southwest Recreation and
Park Conference, to be held at the famous Disneyland Hotel
in Anaheim, California, February 22-26. This conference,
second in size only to the National Recreation Congress, is
cosponsored by the California Park and Recreation Society,
the California Association of Park and Recreation Admin-
istrators, the California State Division of Recreation, De-
partment of Parks and Recreation, and the National Rec-
reation Association. The conference will be preceded by a
special Institute for Administrators on “Creative Leadership
in the Public Service” on February 22, and various business
meetings.

Keynote speaker at the opening general session will be
John A. Carver, Jr., special assistant to the Secretary of
the Interior Stewart Udall. The second general session will
be a discussion of consolidation and merger of three na-
tional recreation and park organizations with Ray 0. Butler,
executive director, American Recreation Society; Al La-
Gasse, executive director, American Institute of Park Ex-
ecutives; and Joseph Prendergast, executive director, Na-
tional Recreation Association.

A dramatics workshop will be conducted by staff members
of the Anaheim Parks and Recreation Department on
February 26. An arts-and-crafts workshop will also be con-
ducted for the delegates by the Armed Forces Section of
California Park and Recreation Society.

Points of interest in the Anaheim area include the New-
port Beach marina, the community center buildings in Santa
Ana, the special nautical theme of the “Atlantis” playground
in Garden Grove, park facilities in Anaheim—and, of
course, Disneyland.

NRA DISTRICT REPRESENTATIVE: Charles Rez‘tz

 

SOUTHEASTERN

 

EVERAL hundred park and recreation executives from the
five southeastern states of Alabama, Florida, Georgia,
Mississippi. and South Carolina will convene at the annual
Southeastern Executive’s Recreation Conference in Colum-

bia, South Carolina, March 31-April 2. Conference head-
quarters will be at the Hotel Wade Hampton. Conference

60

sessions will revolve around the central theme, “Recreation
—An Essential Service,” with a day-in-depth featuring sub-
t0pics around the theme each of the three days.

Dr. Harold Meyer, recently retired as chairman of the
recreation curriculum at the University of North Carolina,
will address the delegates at the Opening session on “It pays
to Sell Service.” General Mark Clark, well-known American
World War II hero and an outstanding orator, will address
the delegates at luncheon on the opening day.

On April 1, the daydn-depth session will center around
“Financing Recreation as an Essential Service,” with Nathan
Mallison, superintendent of recreation in Jacksonville,
Florida, first presenting the topic, and workshop groups
following the presentation. The final day-in-depth session
is “Administering Recreation as an Essential Service.”

The field staff from South Carolina communities attending
the conference will participate in a special performing arts
workshop to be directed by Siebolt Frieswyk, NRA Special
Consultant on the Performing Arts. Special entertainment
programs for delegates and wives are being developed by
the program committee and the state recreation society.
NRA DISTRICT REPRESENTATIVE: Temple Jarrell

 

SOUTHWEST

 

THE 42nd Annual Conference of the Southwest District
will be held in the Statler-Hilton Hotel. Dallas, Texas,
March 31-April 4. The program will include timely topics
for discussion, outstanding speakers, and a tour of facilities
of the Park and Recreation Department of the city of Dallas.

The Dallas park system has 135 park areas with a total
of 14,175.51 acres. Three new community recreation centers
have been added during the past year bringing the total to
thirteen centers in operation. At W. W. Samuell Park during
the past year, one of the finest tennis facilities in the nation,
consisting of twelve Layhold-surfaced courts, all well-lighted
for night play, has been installed. In Fair Park is located
the famous Cotton Bowl and the Civic Center of Dallas
which includes an aquarium. museum of natural history.
museum of fine arts, health and science museum, hall of
state, and garden center. The Dallas Zoo in Marsalis Park,
three municipal golf courses, three large lake areas and
thirteen neighborhood swimming pools. all are a part of
the Dallas Park System, and delegates will visit as many
of these facilities as possible.

NRA DISTRICT REPRESENTATIVE: Robert Shipp

RECREATION

i
l

NFERENCES

 

GREAT LAKES

 

HE Great Lakes District Park and Recreation Conference

to be held at the Schroeder Hotel in Milwaukee, April
1-3 will be cosponsored by the Wisconsin Recreation Asso-
ciation and the administrators who represent the Big Eleven
from the Milwaukee metropolitan area. Featured speakers
include Joseph Prendergast, NRA executive director, and
Robert Peterson of the King Features Syndicate of New
York City. One of the features of the conference program
will be the Allen-Bradley Orchestra and Chorus under the
direction of Tony Werth. The program will be presented
at the Allen-Bradley Auditorium.

An interesting tour of the Greater Milwaukee park and
recreation areas will be offered including the beautiful new
Milwaukee zoo, lakefront marina, the lighted school recre-
ation centers, Par-3 golf courses, et cetera.

The conference program will feature a “day-in-depth” on
park management and operative procedures. Other topics
of interest to the delegates will include: “Evaluating Play-
ground Apparatus,” “Training Program for Part-Time and
Seasonal Leaders,” and “The Teenagers Responsibility to
the Community.” Workshops will tackle children’s theater,
Par-3 golf course construction and management, and public

 

programing for handicapped citizens.

NRA DISTRICT REPRESENTATIVES: Robert H orney
David Langkammer

 

PACIFIC NORTHWEST

 

COME east and south to see the west! Billings, Montana,
a city of 355,000 in the southeast corner of the Pacific
Northwest will host the annual Recreation and Park Con-
ference April 12-15, sponsored by National Recreation
Association and hosted by the Billings Recreation Depart-
ment. Other agencies cooperating include the Billings Park
Department, the Montana Recreation and Parks Association,
and the Park Division of Montana Highway Commission.
One of the highlights of the conference will be the general
t session and workshop on “Arts in Your Program” by
Siebolt Frieswyk, NRA consultant on the performing arts.
Many of the delegates will want to visit Glacier or Yellow-
1 stone National Parks on their way to or from Billings.

i NRA DISTRICT REPRESENTATIVE: To Be Announced

Preview of programs, speakers,
workshops, special events, tours

 

MIDWEST

 

THE 1964 Midwest District Recreation Conference will be
held at the Antlers Hotel in Colorado Springs, Col-
orado, April 14-17. Pre-conference meetings of the Colorado
Recreation Society and the NRA District Advisory Com-
mittee will be held on April 13.

This conference, choosing for its theme “Recreation with
Purpose,” will capitalize on the many unusual features and
attractions in the Colorado Springs area. It will begin with
a Prayer Breakfast in the exhibit area on April 14 at which
time the conference will be guests of the Colorado Recre-
ation Society. Speaking at this breakfast will be J. Austin
Smith, director of the locker division of the leible Com-
pany, Loudonville, Ohio. (See Mr. Smith’s editorial, Page
48.)

Each conference day will begin with a general session
and have special emphasis on one area of concern to recre-
ation leadership. At these general sessions a noted speaker
will provide background material on the subject. This will
serve as the basis for small group discussions on its appli-
cation during the balance of the day. The emphasis on the
first day will be on “Central Purposes of Recreation.”

The second day will emphasize “program” and the key-
note speech will be given by Virginia Mussehnan, NRA’S
director of Program Service. The third day will be devoted
to recreation developments and features in Colorado Springs.
E. Stuart Richter, director of parks and recreation, will speak
on “The Colorado Springs Concept.” This will be followed
by visits to the program for the handicapped, the construc-
tion of creative playground equipment, and the new park
and recreation administrative offices. The “look around
Colorado Springs” includes lunch at the Air Force Academy
and tours of the Academy grounds. An arts-and-crafts work-
shop will be held in the craft shops at the Academy.

NRA DISTRICT REPRESENTATIVE: Verna Rensvold

 

MIDDLE ATLANTIC

 

HE 13th Annual Maryland Governor’s Conference and
Middle Atlantic District Recreation and Park Confer-
ence will be held at the Lord Baltimore Hotel, Baltimore,
May 10-13. The conference, sponsored by the Maryland Rec-
reation and Park Society and the National Recreation Asso-
Continued on. Page 92

61

NEW LIFE
IN A
LEPROSARIUM

 

Most appropriate for Brotherhood Week, February 16-23,

is the heartwarming recreation work

Peace Corps volunteers are doing with Ethiopian youth

at the leprosarium near Addis Ababa

Tim Badman

stands one of Ethiopia’s leper
colonies ( also called leprosaria
by some sophisticated Westerners). It
sits on a high hill overlooking a neat

Nor FAR SOUTH of Addis Ababa

and characteristically well-cultivated
farming district. The colony looks clean
and fresh, and its appearance is en-
hanced by Ethiopia’s almost perfect
climate.

A. month after the first members of
the Ethiopia group arrived, volunteers
Sue and Herb Siege] of Los Angeles
perceived that the Peace Corps could
do useful work in this undermanned

Mn. Bony! AV, 0/ Leonie, New Jersey, is
now serving as a Peace Corps volunteer
in Ethiopia. He teaches English and
history in Addi, . fbaba.

62

outpost of society. They talked to a di-
rector of the leprosarium, Sister Rankin
Bohlberg, a Swedish volunteer worker,
and she encouraged their interest. Sis-
ter Rankin, who has been described as
“Ethiopia’s Isak Dinesen,” suggested
that Peace Corps volunteers could build
athletic fields and organize activities for
children of the colony.

Within a few weeks, seven volunteers,
working only on Saturday afternoons,
built a volleyball court and laid the
foundations for a soccer field, a difficult
project as the field was crisscrossed by
paths used for years by the entire com-
munity. Many of the older residents
could not understand why they should
suddenly have to walk around the field,
even if there was a game in progress.

A crowd of children always surrounds
the Peace Corps volunteers during their
visits to leper colony near Addis Ababa.
Sam Fisk and Ernie Fox talk to young-
sters _ as one boy traces the picture
of Bach imprinted on Fox's sweatshirt.

Work on the court and the field—
clearing ground and digging shallow
trenches for boundary lines—was done
by younger members of the community
with the volunteers’ help and encour-
agement. The older boys directed the
labOr force, which consisted of a multi-
tude of lid joch (Amharic for children)
between two and nine. Volunteers soon
learned some basic command words,
such as shamu (which means cheer or
shout), words which evoked spirited
working songs from a chorus of small-‘
voices.

The work is seldom performed efii-
eiently, but nonetheless Saturday after-
noons are a refreshing and cheerful ex-
perience in a community of people who
have one of the most dreaded diseases
in Africa.

THE women volunteers are eager to
initiate handicraft work among
the children. The more activities the
better, but it really doesn’t matter what.
Just the presence of these Saturday visi-
tors provides excitement.

Every week, as the volunteers leave,
they are surrounded by children, all
wanting to hold onto their hands. In-
variably a compromise of sorts is
reached as the children form chains
stretching out on either side, two hold-
ing volunteers’ hands and the others
gaining at least a hand of him-who-
holds-onto-the-hand, and so on. Once,
as the volunteers left, their departure
was marked by a tribal dance usually
reserved for very important persons.

So far, work at the Addis leprosar-
ium has been limited to recreation ac-
tivities, but, after some training, volun-
teers will also provide simple medical
services. In any event, contribution at
the leprosarium, as in many areas of
Peace Corps effort, can best be mea-
sured in terms of “espirit” rather than

“production.” #

RECREATION

 
 
 
 
     
 
   
   
 
    
  
 

  
 

Ice sculptures included native animals.
Many copied Eskimo soapstone carv—
ings. Some of the sculpture was tinted
with food coloring—otherwise how
could you have a real pink elephant?
"Diet" to the left depicts former Prime
Minister John Diefenbaker as Humpty
Dumpty sitting on his wall. He later
had real fall when defeated at polls.

fifty-five hundred persons in the bush
country north of Ottawa. Human en-
ergy operates the sixty—odd recreation
W0 KINDS of energy—atomic and clubs and groups run mostly by volun-
T human—make the wheels go

round in Deep River, Ontario.

teers. Since Deep River also has an
abundance of snow and ice, 3 winter

 

Atomic energy makes the community’s
economic wheels go round and human
energy makes the community recreation
wheels go round in this town of some

FEBRUARY, 1964

carnival was a natural development and
is a three-day annual event held in late
January or early February. This year
the carnival's dates are February 7-9.

Carnival queen rides atop hillbilly float during parade.

The carnival includes a parade com-
plete with a snow queen, an ice sculp-
ture contest, skating exhibitions, fire.-
works, a variety show, and many, many
outdoor events. The carnival mascot
used on the official emblem is a rakish
“canoose” complete with a skating cap
and singing bird amidst his antlers. The
ice sculptures remain as lawn decora-

tions long after the carnival was over.#

()3

 
 

BROTHERHOOD WEEK—wFEBRUARY 16-23

 

JULIAN BARTOLINI
E SINCE the first sailor received an

answer to the message he tossed

into the sea in a bottle, people
have recognized the fascination of com-
munication with people in distant lands.
This time-honored method of starting
international correspondence has had
amazing results. Some time ago, for
instance, a Kansas City businessman
threw a letter in a bottle overboard
while on a cruise. The bottle was picked
up by a Japanese fishing boat and dc-
livered to the ship’s captain. Corres-
pondence between the two men on op-
posite sides of the world is now thriving.

People-to-People, a fast-growing or-
ganization started by President Dwight
Eisenhower in 1956 to find new ways to
promote individual communication
among the peoples of the world, has
fostered a Letter Exchange Program
to further international friendship and
understanding. This has become one
of the strongest programs under the
The others in-
clude school and classroom affiliations
embracing seven hundred thousand
students, community chapter activities,
and a program for university students
that has reached 750 colleges and uni-
versities all over the world.

The School and Classroom Program
arranges affiliations between student
groups in the United States and coun-
tries abroad. The participants exchange
letters, art projects, tape recordings,

0 o , l
organlzatlon 5 Wing.

MR. BARTOLINI is director of the Citi-
zens’ Program of People-to-People.

64

   
   

{Hr-‘3’} r“, hr‘v‘g‘rf;r,
I - t?

and other items of interest. The Citi-
zens’ Program, under which community
chapters are formed, provides service to
local People-to-People chapters in cities
throughout the nation. Through these
chapters, communities conduct sister-
city affiliations with cities abroad, in-
ternational festivals, international host-
ing, and travel programs. The Univer-
sity Program, which establishes chap-
ters on college campuses, helps interna-
tional students integrate into campus
and community life. Through these
programs every American has an op-
portunity to form a solid friendship
with a citizen of another country and
thus make a personal contribution to
world peace.

LETTER WRITING has become an im-

portant part of leisure-time activ-
ity, and many of the correspondents
write to as many as eight, ten, and even
twenty-live other persons. One woman,
a mother of twins, writes that she-es-
timates she has made at least 130
friends, either directly or indirectly,
through letters she has written and re-
ceived during the last year. These in-
ternational letter writers have learned
their friends in Perth, Paris, and
Prague live differently, have different
problems, and sometimes have a differ-
ent view of the way things are going
in the world. Some of the similarities
they share are striking, however; and
through discussions of children, food,
travel, politics and literature, strong
bonds of friendship have been formed

The fascination of
communication . . .

among thousands of writers who never
have met.

“My favorite hobby is international
correspondence,” reports sixteen-year-
old Susan Vetter, who uses her leisure
time to be an “ambassador-by-letter” to
friends abroad. “I am writing to about
twenty-five people at present, and the
differences in language, customs, cli-
mates, and foods make our exchange
of letters interesting and vital.” Susan,
who lives in Minneapolis, Minnesota,
is one of some forty-live thousand per-
sons conducting correspondence with
citizens of other lands through the Let-
ter Exchange Program of People-to-
People, Inc.

People-to-People correspondents are
matched by a more scientific means
than the bottle-in-the-ocean method.
Information from some one thousand
letters that are received each week in
the Kansas City headquarters are filed
on three—by—hve cards according to na-
tionality, special interests, and age.
Twenty volunteer workers sort, file, and
match the cards that offer friendship
and mutual understanding to corres-
pondents in all parts of the world.

Hobbies are the most usual “handle”
by which correspondents are matched.
The world over, people have more lei-
sure time for recreation, and they enjoy
sharing their pastimes with others who
have similar interests:

0 A druggist from Branson, Missouri,
and a dentist from Milan, Italy, have
discovered a mutual interest in explor-
ing caves and write of spelunking trips.

RECREATION

o A young homemaker in Blackwell,
Oklahoma, is exchanging recipes with
cooks in Japan and India.

0 A stalnp collector from McLean,
Virginia, writes at least monthly to col-
lectors in India, Japan, Jordan, Malaya,
Indonesia, China, Argentina, Chile,
Belgium, Iran, Spain, and Germany.

BEEKEEPERS, silviculturists, doll col-
lectors, readers, writers—all man-
ner of hobbyists——are finding they can
add exciting new dimensions to their
avocations by writing to someone in
another part of the world who has a
similar enthusiasm. Waiting in the files
to be matched with American corres-
pondents are a Canadian totem pole
enthusiast; a Colombian interested in
magic, moths, and sculpture; and a
Filipino who wants information on
making a harp.

Gardening has opened many doors
for Mrs. Erwin Suther of Britton,
South Dakota, who is now South Da-
kota State World Gardening chairman.
She corresponds with six gardeners
from five different countries, cxchang-
ing gardening ideas, agricultural maga-
zines and pamphlets, as well as personal
anecdotes. Mrs. Suther says, “As I cor-
respond with these people, we have
formed individual friendships, and the
many enjoyable personal letters make
us feel that we are dear, close friends.”

The most common bond among the
letter writers, however, is that they
simply want to make friends with per-
sons in other countries—and they do.
“I have learned a great deal about the
geography, climate, culture, and cus-
toms of both Malaya and Ceylon
through our correspondence,” writes a
girl from Milwaukee. “But most im-
portant, we have become good friends.
I shared his apprenhension when his
father underwent a delicate eye opera-
tion and his joy at his brother’s wed-
ding. It would be wonderful if people
could use the many things they have
in common as a basis for peace and
understanding and use their differences
to add variety to life.”

Practically everyone has found the

  
 

brother to everyone, brotherhood will not come

to pass.——Dosr0YEVSKY.

FEBRUARY, 1964

Until you have become really, in actual fact, a

letter exchange to be a valuable educa-
tional tool. A doctor from Florida has
worked out an elaborate system for ex-
changing language lessons through tape
recordings with a doctor in Venezuela;
and a Frankfort, South Dakota, girl
writes that corresponding with her
friend Carlos from Chile “helps me
in my school work because he writes
to me in Spanish, which I am taking
in school.”

MOST REQUESTS from children under

fourteen, because of the language
barrier, are turned over to staff mem-
bers in the People-to-People School and
Classroom Program. They match ap-
proximately thirty classrooms a week
with classrooms in other countries.
These students are involved in the ac-
tual exchange of letters, in addition to
shipping back and forth such class-
room projects as scrapbooks, tape re-
cordings, essays, and drawings depict-
ing life in their respective countries.
Classroom directors hope students will
continue to correspond even after they
leave the classroom. Many strong
friendships already have been estab-
lished through both classroom and let-
ter exchanges.

Susan Vetter, the Minneapolis girl
who writes to twenty-five persons, per-
haps best sums up the spirit of the
People-to-People letter. exchange when
she says: “If every American wrote to
just one person in another country, the
future of world relations might look
more hopeful. Anyway, it’s fun to have
a friend across the sea! It makes a
country more real than when you’ve
only read about it in geography books.
A stamp can start a rewarding friend-
ship.”

If you or your group would like to
participate in the People-to-People‘letter
exchange, send your name'address, age
and interests on a card to 2401 Grand
Avenue, Kansas City 8, Missouri. In-
terested children under fourteen years
old should ask their teachers to writc
to People-to-People headquarters in
Kansas City for more information about
the School and Classroom Program. #

  
 

  

LARGEST IMPORTER

of Judo and Karate Equipment

Husky, long-wearing "Lion Brand"
and "Victory Cup Brand” Judo and
Karate suits. Liberal discounts for
quantity orders. Complete library of
Judo, Karate and Aikido books. Also
emblems and jewelry.

Write for complete price list folder.

HONDA

ASSOCIATES , INC.

Dept. R, 50 West 47th Street
N.Y., N.Y. 10036/Clrcle 5-0365

 

YOU’LL LOVE US

 

...FOR SAVING YOU 2/3

Your club members will love you,
too, for getting them the finest
trophies, awards and badges at a
whopping big 65% discount. Free
engraving. Write for your 1964 cata-
log now. Our 3lst year as a trophy
manufacturer.

EMBLEM & BADG ’iil‘.’

DEPT. R

859 North Main St;
Providence 4, RI. DE 1-5444

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

65

WORLD RECREATION

CONGRESS

See you in Japan . . .

to play host to a world Recreation Congress. The

city of Osaka, second largest in Japan, and Kyoto, its
ancient capital, will be scenes of the meeting, October 2-7;
while Tokyo, capital since 1868 and one of the world’s fasci-
nating cities, will entertain the 1964 Olympic Games, Octo-
ber 10-2-11. Alert, world-minded recreationists will want to
take advantage of the proximity of these events to cover both.
The former is being sponsored by the International Recre-
ation Association and the National Recreation Association

THE land of Fujiyama and the lotus blossom is about

of Japan.

The first three days of the Congress will be held in Osaka,
the remainder in Kyoto, with a day’s viewing of recreational
and cultural sites en route. The working languages of the
Congress will be English, French, and Japanese.

A three-man delegation, representing the National Recre-
ation Association of Japan, attended the 45th National Rec-
reation Congress in Saint Louis to extend a cordial invi-
tation to participants to attend the World Recreation Con-
gress. See photograph below, right.

TRAVEL ARRANGEMENTS

The International Recreation Association has arranged
a Boeing 707 Jet for IRA Members planning to participate
in the Congress and the Olympic Games. This charter will
leave for Tuk) o from New York ($595), Chicago ($565),
and San Francisco {$545) on September 29 and return on
October 29. Following the Congress, special group tours are
being arranged which will encompass the Olympics and
professional study and sightseeing in Hong Kong, Taiwan,
Singapore, Thailand, the Philippines, and Japan. For com-
plete information on the IRA charter flight, hotel informa-
tion, and the post-Congress tours, send for the IRA World
Congress brochure and the Travel and Tour Arrangements
brochure. W rite to the IRA at 35 East alvéth Street, New
York 10017. Charter plane reservations close February 29.

While the world Congress is open to all who are inter-
ested, only those who are members of HM are eligible to
[.J'dI'tI‘fIIJEIIP in the charter. in accordance with regulations
governing charter flights. Typical round-trip rates to Tokyo
on other carriers are: from \"ew York, 81,064: from Chi-
cago. *9525. and from ban Francisco. 3783. 

()(1

 

 

I

 

A group of Japanese delegates to the 45th National Rec-
reation in St. Louis last year is seen with Ethel Mori, super-
intendent of recreation in Honolulu, and Thomas E. Rivers,
director general of the lnternational Recreation Association.

RECREATION

THE PERFORMING ARTS
AS RECREATION SERIES

1. MUSIC IS RECREATION
2. DRAMA IS RECREATION
3. DANCE IS RECREATION
4. POETRY IS RECREATION

 

 

RE CREATIN

POEM

Poems are made of chocolate

Some are made of dew

.‘ .—

I r ' 4‘m_.. &_ “mg-h"?  ,
Some are made of people

 

Just like me and you

Jackie Bates
5th Grade
Robert E. Lee School

Richmond, Virginia

From: Poetry Party sponsored by Poetry Society of Virginia
and Richmond Public Library

A RepOrt on Poetry in Public Recreation
Prepared by the Program Department
of the National Recreation Association
Virginia Musselman
Siebolt H. Frieswyk

Published by
National Recreation Association 0 8 West Eighth Street 0 New York, NY. 100]]

Joseph Prendergast, Executive Director
Amliated with The National Cultural Center, Washington, D. C.

POETRY IS RECREATION

POETRY has a way of getting into

our lives without our knowing it.
It comes to us through music we
sing at home, at church, at school, and
in community life. It comes to us in
nursery rhymes, singing games, skip-
rope rhymes, folk songs and ballads re-
cited, sung, and acted out, and in the
storyhour. A too-cursory view of the
role which poetry plays or might play
in recreation programs passes over
much that should be carefully noted.
Could it be that there is more interest
and participation than is at first appar-
ent? If so, would not a closer view pro-
vide a truer assessment of the potentials
of poetry in recreation programs, and
how they may be more developed?
Have we thought, for example, about
the millions of people who during each
Christmas season hear and sing Bishop
Phillips Brooks’ “0, Little Town of
Bethlehem,” and many other Christmas
poems set to music? Have you thought
of Katherine Lee Bates’ “America the
Beautiful,” one of our patriotic poems
which perhaps is sung more often and
by more people than any other?
Phyllis Fenner remarks in her Some-
thing Shared (John Day) that “it would
be fairly safe to say that there is no one
who has not loved and been moved by
some poem at some time.” In recent
years, Robert Frost, in his TV appear-
ances, gave many of us the rare oppor-
tunity of meeting a great poet for the
first time. Can we not still hear him
speak of birch trees, stone walls, roads,
snow, and reflections on a winter night?
Perhaps the appearance of Frost, other
poets. and artists on commercial and

educational TV and radio, at concert
and recital halls, in the classroom, and
also in their recorded poems, have
greatly helped to arouse the public in-
terest in contemporary poetry. John
Ciardi, well-known contemporary poet
and author, has done much to stimulate
and enlighten children’s interest in po-
etry in his television programs. Resi-
dent poets on several college campuses
are giving new importance to poetry in
the lives of thousands of students. Fur-
ther impetus will come. The National
Recreation Association, as an affiliate
of the National Cultural Center, foresees
the inclusion of poetry among the cen-
ter’s performing arts activities, and
the enrichment of recreation through-
out the nation by these programs
planned for the future. Perhaps the
public recognizes human values in po-
etry which must be regained if we are
to live in dignity and freedom.

POETRY has ceased to be the darling

of the initiated few. It no longer
belongs to the realm of long-haired eso-
terica. The current Broadway season
has given us with a stirring presentation
of The Spoon River Anthology, Edgar
Lee Masters’ small town immortalized
in verse; Dylan, with Sir Alec Guinness
portraying the Welsh poet; and a rous-
ing off-Broadway production of Trum-
pets of the Lord, a musical adaptation
of James Weldon J ohnson’s God’s
Trombones. Last year, Dorothy Stick-
ney toured the country in a one-woman
show based on the work of Edna St.
Vincent Millay. In recent years we have
had such verse drama as Archibald

 

MacLeish’s I. B. and the dramatic read-
ing of John Brown’s Body. T. S. Eliot’s
Murder in the Cathedral has found a

ready-made “set” in the churches where
it has been given by amateur and pro-
fessional groups.

The annual Boston Arts Festival held
in the city’s famed Public Gardens de-
votes one of its evenings of outdoor
presentations to poetry. It honors an
outstanding poet who receives an award
and reads from his work—including a
poem written for the occasion.

The vibrating Poetry Center at the
YMHA in New York City offers an ex-
tensive series of poetry readings by
poets and well-known theater figures.
It also presents verse drama ( Under
M ilk Wood). The center has introduced
many poets from abroad to American
audiences, notably'Dylan Thomas. The
center has really made poetry a “hip”
activity and has inspired other groups
to do likewise.

Hughes Mearns, in his interesting
live-year free-activity school at the Lin-
coln School of Teachers College, C0-
lumbia University, made extensive use
of poetry in a variety of ways. One was
in quieting fractious children. He says
of this: “The spell of the poet worked
upon them; it gave rest to their minds,
stilled the fierce incitation which the
schoolat that stage of its growth had
brought out in them. A lovely, awk-
ward friendliness appeared
them.” He reached a point with them
where they wrote and read poetry and
en oyed it freely.

among

Mr. Mearns is one of America’s pio-
neers in helping children to release dor-

mant creative powers and is one of our
most influential educators and writers
in this field. “Reading,” he says, “in-
cluding the dramatization that goes
with reading, silent or openly played,
is one of the important foods of the
creative life. . . . Those who have been
deprived of its energizing units, either
through lack or because of repugnant
school diet, may suffer later dangers in

abbreviated lives.”

OPPORTUNITIES to participate in the

making of poetry lead directly and
effectively into a keener understanding
and enjoyment of the poetry of great
poets. The effects of these early experi-
ences may seem to be lost during cer-
tain periods of growth. However, as
we know, their influence begins to bear
fruit eventually. Without such earlier
experience and exposures to the various
arts, many find it impossible to cultivate
these rewarding interests in later life.

Another exceptionally useful and at-
tractive publication, Let’s Say Poetry
Together by Carrie Rasmussen, tells us
ways of participating in reciting, poems
included. Here, we have the beginning
of poetry as a performing art and for
speech improvement.

Poems recorded by the poets them-
selves and by actors have become in-
creasingly useful in convincing people
that poetry is a performing art and a
listening delight. The words in poetry,
just as the notes in music, are more
fully heard when they are sounded.
Obviously, poetry spoken (read aloud
or recited) will not only enliven the
feeling of participation, it will also
strengthen the ability to speak and
communicate. Rhythms, cadences, the
drama of structure come into play when
poetry is performed like music.

The music division of the Library of
Congress has an extensive list of poetry

t

recordings available, and records listed
may be purchased from the library.
Recordings of poets reading their own
poems include Robert Hillyer, Daniel
Hoffman, Katherine Chapin, Robert

 

Frost, and other contemporary poets.

The Children’s and Youth Adult Serv-
ices Section of the New York Public

Library publishes a selected list of re-
cordings for children which contains
sections on folk songs, rhythms and
games, family fun, and camp songs.

COMMUNITY recreation leaders might
consider the poetry parties given
in Richmond, Virginia. Mrs. Ulrich
Troubetzkoy, a member of the Acad-
emy of American Poets, conducts a se-
ries of poetry parties for children at the
Richmond Public Library under the
sponsorship of the Poetry Society of
Virginia. These carefully planned pro-
grams for children are so attractive as
to be irresistible.

The simple, inexpensive, and imag-
inative announcements of the parties—
accompanied always by a note about
refreshments—provide one of the keys
to the success of these Richmond poetry
jamborees. Here are a few samples:

* * * * *

POETRY PARTY CELEBRATES
POE’S ANNIVERSARY
with
POETRY AND PASTRY

*****

CHRISTMAS POETRY PARTY

*****

CHILDREN’S POETRY PARTY
for

PARENTS

*****

RHYTHMS from the NAVAHOES
a: a: a: a: are
HALLO‘VEEN POEMS
GAMES
MUSIC
REFRESHMENTS
are a: a: a: a:

FROM ICARUS to JOHN GLENN
RICHMOND POETRY PARTY
CHILDREN READ
POEMS OF FLIGHT

Today’s program is focused
on storytelling poems of
earth, sea and sky. Along with
ballads of heroes, highway-
men and pirates are poems of
flight from Icarus who didn’t
get into orbit to John Glenn
who did.

BRING YOUR OWN POEMS
about
WILD ANIMALS
ZOO ANIMALS
PET ANIMALS
STARS NAMED FOR ANIMALS
MUSIC and REFRESHMENTS
GOLDEN LYRE CERTIFICATES

* * * * *

The children have munched cookies
and drunk cider while they listened to
recordings of Frost reading his own
poems. The Poetry Society of Virginia
published 150 poems composed by
forty-three children in 1962.

Related activity through the close co-
operation of Harry M. Meacham, chair-

man of the advisory board of the Acad-
emy of American Poets, and Mrs. Rose
Banks of the Richmond Department of
I Recreation and Parks has been carried
over into the recreation program. Rec-
reation leaders will immediately see in
the foregoing anuoncements many of
the linest qualities of recreation experi-
ence, such as voluntary participation,
growth in skill and understanding,
pride in accomplishment, recognition,
finding a place in the scheme of things,
creativity, a whole experience not mere-
ly a fractional one, sociability, and fun.
Recreation leaders will also see that the
poetry party idea lends itself to a great
variety of themes and presentation!
Music, dance, and creative drama can
go along with poems on many occa-
sions, and provide variation in the in—
terpretation of them.

The important job of bringing poetry
back into our lives is now being carried
on increasingly by many libraries
throughout the country, by a growing
number of group-work agencies, by so-
cieties formed especially for this pur-
pose, and by educational institutions
from elementary to college and univer-

 

sity levels. The ob also goes on in po-
l etry clubs and in diverse other places.
One of the prime movers in the current
1 poetry revival has been the New York
. YMHA previously mentioned.

I.

THE Academy of American Poets
published The Poetry Pilot for its
affiliate organizations members through-
out the nation. This provides many
practical suggestions for channeling po-
etry back into the mainstream of com-
mUnity life. It is important, for exam-
ple, to know local people who are active
in poetry programs in libraries, schools,
colleges, art centers, book stores, poetry
societies, radio and TV stations, news-
papers, magazines and, above all, to
know the local poets themselves.

The Pilot also suggests arranging for
poetry hours, poetry days, poetry exhi-
bitions, poetry classes, poetry collec-
tions, poetry rooms, poetry festivals,
poetry fairs, poetry contests, poetry
readings, use of poetry recordings, po-
etry discussions, poetry criticism and
reviews, special observations and spe-
cial indoor and outdoor programs, and

° broadcasts. The setting up of a poetry

room or poetry corner could be readily
done in many community recreation
facilities.

These projects cannot be tackled all
at once, of course. Start with one proj-
ect, carefully planned and prepared.
Later on, with the experience and
knowledge gained in the initial project
and with better knowledge of the
group’s interest and response, further
developments can be undertaken with
confidence.

Alexandra Reid Sanford, outstand-
ing children’s librarian of the New
York Public Library, now retired, ob-
served that, “Children and poetry are
natural friends. A child is at the hub
of his world, facing with a sense of won-
der the mysteries of the universe, each
a new experience, the changing seasons,
the people, animals, and objects about
him, real and imagined. Young people
respond very early to rhyme, rhythm,
and repetition. The power of the poet
to create pictures with words is reflected

POETRY IS RECREATION

 

in the fresh and poetic Word pictures of
a young child.”

In considering a poetry project, most
recreation leaders would undoubtedly
think of children first. They would have
many good reasons for doing so, and,
moreover, would have resources within
reach to make such a program possible.
In Let Them Write Poetry, Nina Willis
Walter offers ample guidance to any
leader planning poetry programs for
children. Among the subjects expertly
treated in this publication are creative
environment, stimulating creative re-
sponse, developing standards, emotion-
al response, ideas in the poetry of chil-
dren, word choice, teaching rhythms,
patterns for poetry, and many other
relevant subjects.

TEENAGERS of today are likely to pur-

sue their poetic inclinations in an
off-beat manner. Top-tune lyrics stand
high on the list. The youngsters make
pilgrimages to places like the coffee-
houses in Greenwich Village where jazz
and poetry are the handmaidens of cul-
ture. They will sit at home alone or
with friends listening for hours. to their
favorite recordings and- radio pro-

grams. Maybe the lyrics are called pop
art or “kitsch” by the sociologists. It

makes no difference. Youth seldom
gives ear except to its own inner im-
pulses.

Lillian Morrison, speaking at a po-
etry festival in California, observed that
young people regard the world of po-
etry as “sticky and ineffable.” Some-
how one cannot believe that all modern
poets are so far out that young people
cannot reach them. The poets, in fact,
share deeply in their experiences of
modern life. If youngsters read Sand-
burg, Williams, Cummings, Benét, Ste-
vens, Lowell, Eberhart, Eliot, Thomas,
and other contemporary poets they will
find out how much the shared experi-
ence can be. Youth will share with the

poets, but the conditions must be right.

HOW CAN a recreation leader organ-

ize a poetry program for teenagers
without facing imminent failure and
frustration? Lawrence H. Mouat in
Reading Literature Aloud offers a
wealth of practical suggestions for re-
lating poetry and the drama program.
Basic techniques for using the voice and
body are analyzed; poetry and prose
selections are also analyzed for presen-
tation; and program preparation and
performances are discussed in detail.
Obviously, this approach offers many
opportunities for individual attention
and growth, and, at the same time, for
participation by the group as well. Po-
etry dealt with in this expert volume
includes Benét’s “Nightmare Number
Three,” Jeffers’ “Hurt Hawks,” Sand-
burg’s “Boy and Father,” Don Marquis’
humorous verse “Seaside Romance,”
and others. All the selections challenge
the intelligence and ability of the par-
ticipant and allow for growth. Memory
is cultivated. As Langston Hughes said:

I I you put your thoughts in rhyme
They stay in folks” heads a longer
time.

CREATIVE WRITING groups to which
young people belong would be nat-
ural places for them to participate in the
writing and performance of poetry.
Through it many of them will be sur-
prised to find a satisfying avenue of
self-expression. Poetry, like all the arts,
requires skill and knowledge of the
craft. There are also theories of po-
etry and styles to be comprehended.
Various forms, as in music, dance, and
drama, give shape to certain kinds and
styles of poetry. Young people are at-
tracted to the inner workings of things,
and this curiosity is the same for poetry
as it is for hotrods. Creative writing of-
fers the combination of objectivity and
enthusiasm which maturing young peo-
ple want.

Youth clubs which engage in several
different activities might be encouraged

 

and assisted in planning an occasional
poetry party. The club meeting could
include recordings or performances of
appropriate poetry with jazz combo ac-
companiment.
Special-interest
would have opportunities to become ac-
quainted with poetry related to their
interests in science, adventure and ex-
ploration, history and politics, music
and dance, travel, paintina, or other

or hobby groups

fields. Those who are especially keen
about the graphic arts or photography
have extensive opportunities to relate
their skills to poetry. The recent TV
documentation of Frost’s poems was a
perfect illustration of what can be done
through audio-visual means.

Arts festivals of various dimensions
and kinds have become more and more
It is im-
portant to note that community recrea-
tion agencies are involved in many of
them, and, in some instances, provide
the entire sponsorship. Poetry con-
ducted by creative-writing, reading, or
drama clubs occupies a significant and,
at times, prominent place in these festi-
vals. Poems are composed, exhibited,
and recited for these occasions. Poetry,

numerous in recent years.

music, and dance performances are pre-
sented in combination. A11 arts festival
offers young people a chance to partici-
pate and to contribute their talents not
only in the more commonly accepted
forms of the performing arts, but in
poetry as well.

There are, of course, many other
ways of encouraging the interest and
participation of youth in poetry. For
example, on a long hike or bus trip we
might recite what we remember with
everyone chiming in. Campers will re-
spond to poetry in the open surrounded
by the beauties of nature, or on a bike
at sunset, and around a campfire. Vol-
unteer youth services to institutions,
special programs for children, camp
and playground activity, summer enter-
tainments can be used effectively at
times for bringing poetry to the fore.

Every community recreation pro-
gram could have its own youthful poet
laureate who would be commissioned
to write more than a graduation class
poem. Young people should be invited
to write poems for recreation as well.
They are creative, have the talent and
interest. They need to be challenged.

THE MANY adult poetry organizations
affiliated with the Academy of
American Poets, and the programs con-
ducted by them, demonstrate a wide in-
terest among adults in poetry and what
adult participants can do. There are, as
Randall J arrell observes in The Ameri-
can Scholar, “several publics for po-
etry.” The expanding efforts on the
part of many organizations, educational
institutions, and other agencies, and
their programs in poetry will increase
the influences of today’s poetry and
poets upon individuals and society.
The spiritual quality of many poems
often has a positive and strengthening
effect upon our feelings and attitudes.
It can be said that poetry contributes to
mental health. As is stated in “Adven-
turing in Old Books,” a recent monthly
letter from the Royal Bank of Canada,
“No man can have any just conception
of the greatness, the fullness and the

Poetry Recordings

Activity Records, 288 North Main
Street, Freeport, New York.

Audio Book Company, 501 Main
Street, St. Joseph, Michigan.

Bowmar Company, 12 Cleveland
Street, Valhalla, New York.

Caedmon Company, 461 Eighth Ave-
nue, New York City.

Colpix Record Company, 711 Fifth
Avenue, New York City.

Enrichment Records, 246 Fifth Ave-
nue, New York City.

Folkways Company, 121 West 47th
Street, New York City.

Heirloom Records, Brookhaven,
New York.

Pathways of Sound, lnc., 102 Mt.
Auburn Street, Cambridge 38,
Massachusetts.

Spoken Arts Sales Corporation, 95
Valley Road, New Rochelle, New
York.

 

possibilities of life who has not read
some of the great poems . . . No one can
read these without feeling his horizon
widened, his spirit broadened, and his
mind stirred.”

John Ciardi says “Poetry itself is a
religion; it gives meaning to life.”

RESOURCES

Program Aids
Action Songs and Rhythms for Chil-

dren, Lois Hunt Mertz (Denison,
1963, $4.95) .

Creative Power, Hughes Mearns
(Dover, $1.50) .

Crystal Cabinet, The (poems for
teenagers), Horace Gregory and
Marya Zaturenska (Holt, 1962,
$3.50) ‘

Golden Treasury of Best Songs and
Lyrical Poems, Oscar Williams,
Editor (New American Library,
1963, $.95).

Healing Power of Poetry, Smiley
Blanton (Crowell, 1960, $3.95).
Invitation to Rhythm, James R.
Clemens (Brown, 1962, $3.75).
Jump the Rope Jingles, Emme
V. Worstell (Macmillan, 1963,

$2.75).

Learning to Listen, Grosvenor

Cooper (Phoenix, 1962, $1.50).

POETRY IS RECREATION

Many people who feel that individual-
ity is being blotted out in our times will
quickly agree that poetry restores it,
and that poetry is important in reawak-
ening a sense of dignity and freedom in
human beings. No politburo has ever
created a poem. It remains for gifted
men and women, as individuals, to per-
form this distinctive function, and to
enjoy it.

We can share our enjoyment of
poetry through singing, dancing, acting,
reading aloud, and through many other
facets of the recreation program. To do
this, it will be necessary for leaders
themselves to be creative, to show a bit
of ingenuity and imagination, and to
have belief in the possibilities of their
participants. Once exercised, the rec-
reative power of poetry will begin to
reveal itself not only to us as leaders but
also to the children, youth, and adults
with whom we are dealing.

 

Let Them Write Poetry, Nina Willis
(Holt, 1962, $1.95).

Let’s Say Poetry Together, Carrie
Rasmussen (Burgess, 1962,
$2.75).

Reading Literature Aloud, Law-
rence H. Mouat (Oxford Uni-
versity Press, 1962, $2.25).

Recordings for Children (N. Y. Pub-
lic Library, 1962, $1 .00).

Rhythmic Activities, Series IV,
Frances R. Stuart, Virginia L.
Birson and Arden Jervey (Bur-
gess, 1963, $2.50).

Rimbles, Patricia Evans (Double-
day, 1961 , $2.95).

Skip R'ope Book, The, Francelia
Butler and Gail E. Haley (Dial
Press, 1963, $1.95).

Something Shared, Phyllis R.
Fenner (John Day, 1959, $4.50).

Songs For Six Pence, Josephine
Blackstock (Follett, 1955, $2.95

 

Pamphlet Series—The Performing Arts as Recreation

to give

a lift to

your program

try
our

new title

 

No. IV — POETRY IS RECREATION

This new pamphlet, appearing as a bonus to magazine subscribers in the February 1964 issue of RECREATION,
is the fourth in the performing arts series. Watch for forthcoming titles.

Other Titles

No. I —MUSIC IS RECREATION
No. II — DRAMA IS RECREATION
No. III — DANCE IS RECREATION

 

Use with
Your staff Your board or commission
Advisory Committees Citizen committees
Clubs Planning groups
And for
Fundraising Publicity Telling your story
Program Planning Education Selling recreation
Training of volunteers Promotion of bond issues

Current prices as applied to each title (order "" qu‘mmy lots)

Single COpies, $1.00; except Poetry, $.50 0 Set of four titles, $3.00

11 to 24 copies of the same title, $.85 each; Poetry, $3.40 each 0
25 or more, $.75 each; Poetry, $.35 each
100 or over of the same title, 5560 per hundred; Poetry, $30.00

 

 

Order from

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION 8 West 8th Street, New York, N.Y. 10011

ARTS €63 CRAFTS CORNER

 

MOBILE STUDIO

THE “Arty Bus”————-a traveling children’s arts and crafts
studio—made its debut on the Oakland, California,
playgrounds last summer as a joint project of the Oakland
Recreation Department and the Junior Center of Art and
Science. The friendly Volkswagen bus, carrying craft ma-
terials and tools ordinarily not available on playgrounds,
rolled right up and offered its treasures to the children where
they played. For many, it provided a brand new enriching
and exciting summer experience.

Owned by the Junior Center and stocked and staffed by
the recreation department, the “Arty Bus” introduced an
infinite Variety of ceramic, paper, and wood crafts to play-
ground children. Youngsters made asbestos beads and bugs,
musical instruments, butterfly nets, bug cages, costumes,
and burlap pillows; they painted, worked in clay and other
modeling materials, and did paper constructions.

Katie Sachs, a recreation department arts-and-crafts spe-
cialist and recent graduate in art education of the University
of Dayton, Ohio, piloted the “Arty Bus.” She adapted her
programs to fit the various needs and personalities of the
seven playgrounds she visited on a regular weekly schedule
and the several centers and playground to which she made
special visits.

MODELING MATERIALS
Sand Clay

1 cup sand (beach, river, or commercial)
1/2 cup cornstarch‘
1/3 cup boiling water
Food coloring
Mix sand and cornstarch. Pour in boiling water and food
coloring. Cook until thick, stirring constantly. When cool,
model into small animals, beads, pendants, or use as mosaic
base. To dry, bake in oven at 300° for an hour or sun dry.
May be shellacked or painted after thoroughly dry.

Modeling Papier M ache

4 cups newspaper pulp
1 cup flour
1/2 cup salt

Tear newspapers into small bits, put in big pan, and pour
enough boiling water over paper to wet it thoroughly. Let
sit overnight. Then beat with wooden stick or spoon to pul-
verize paper. Knead it. Mix and work in one cup of flour
and the salt for every four cups of pulp. Add a few drops of
oil of Wintergreen for pleasant smell. Use as clay. When
article is modeled, allow to dry thoroughly (depending on

I the size and thickness, this may take several days) . May be
enameled. Very durable.

Asbestos M ash

1 cup asbestos
1 tablespoon wallpaper paste
water

Mix asbestos and wallpaper paste. Add just enough water
I to make a dough that won’t stick to bands. Dough should be
- easy to handle. If too hard, add more water. Articles mod-
I eled will have interesting texture, but may be painted when
| thoroughly dry.
Salt Beads #1
1A) cup salt
1/1 cup cornstarch

1/4 cup cold water
food coloring as desired

Mix thoroughly, then heat in double boiler, stirring until
dough is so thick it can’t be stirred any more, then remove

FEBRUARY, 1964

from fire. When cool enough to handle, knead like bread.
Pinch off small piece, roll in palms of hands into a bead.
Make a hole in bead with a hatpin or wire, leave beads on
wax paper for twenty-four hours to dry thoroughly. Beads
will have a pretty, frosty look, eSpecially in pastel colors.

Salt Beads #2

4 tablespoons salt

6 tableSpoons flour

3 tablespoons cold water
Food coloring as desired

Make paste of flour and Water. Heat salt until it crackles,
add to paste and knead. Keep in covered jar if not used at
once. This mixture also can be used for relief map work,
miniature villages, small figures, etcetera.

Wallpaper Cleaner

This inexpensive, doughlike cleaner makes a good model—
ing material for small objects, such as pins, earrings, small
figurines, etcetera." The only thing to remember is that it
takes a long time to dry thoroughly and to harden (about
four days). Finished articles may be smoothed before dry-
ing by using a moistened finger or roughed up by using a
toothpick. They should be placed on a flat surface covered
with waxed paper to dry and turned daily to dry evenly.
When dried, objects may be painted with any type of paint.
For earrings, glue to earbob backs, and finish with a coat
of clear nail polish.

PROTECTING SCOTCH TAPE

SCOTCH TAPE can be kept in perfect condition for ready
use by storing it in a small can or closed jar. This pre-
vents the tape from drying out in an arid climate or from
having the sticky part adhere to the back of the next layer
when left open in a very humid climate. Sometimes the
humidity of the container needs to be adjusted in dry cli-
mates. This is done by putting a wetted piece of paper in
the container with the tape. If the tape is too moist, it can be
dried out slowly in a warm oven. Test the tape frequently in
order to stop the process when the consistency of the cement
on the tape is just right and the tape pulls off the roll easily
and evenly.———KENNETH JONES, Highland, California.

ARTYFACTS

o The U.S. Department of Agriculture has developed sev-
eral solutions to make fabrics fire resistant (not hreproof).
One solution calls for seven ounces of borax, three ounces
of boric acid, and two quarts of hot water. (You can buy
these chemicals at most drug and grocery stores. Commer-

cial grades give as good results as more expensive pharma-
ceutlcal grades.) Dissolve boric acid by making a paste with

a small quantity of water. Add this and the borax to the
water. Stir until the solution is clear. Although this will
not hreproof fabrics, it will lessen considerably the danger
of burning. Treated materials will char and possibly glow;
however, they will not burst into flame. The fabric must be
redipped if laundered—From Modern Maturity.

o A general rule for mixing paint, glue, plaster of Paris,
and wheat paste is to add the dry powder to the water. Sift
the powder in and stir slowly, pouring only as much water
as you may need into the container you will use for mixing.
Do not put too much dry powder into your solution. It is
preferable to add more dry material if your solution is too

thin when required—MORRIS OZER, Arts and Crafts Special-
ist, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

75

,4???"

    

; ADMINISTRATION

“.1

louis J. Kroeger

WIFT CHANGE and leaping progress are so much a part
S of the character of our times that we do not always
realize how fast the world about us is changing. We
spend a large part of our income now on products and
services that did not exist twenty years ago. Of the children
now in the first six grades of school, half will be employed
in occupations that do not yet exist. Ninety percent of all
the scientists who have ever lived are alive today. They
are responsible for inventions, discoveries, and new learn-
ing in the last decade exceeding all that has been learned
by men in all the previous centuries of recorded intelligence.
Creative thinking has produced these developments. The
question is whether government has its fair share of the
creative thinkers—or even offers an environment which can

attract and encourage them. The answer, I fear, has to be

9
(£110. 7

When societies, organizations, systems, or individuals
are young, they are flexible and willing to try anything once.
As they grow older, vitality diminishes, flexibility yields to
rigidity, creativity fades, and there is a loss of capacity to
meet challenges from unexpected directions. Some of this
reduced flexibility and inhibited capacity for change is
inevitable——and it may even be desirable. If you have ever
helped launch a new department or function of government,
you will always look back with a certain nostalgia to the
confusion and high morale of the early days; yet you would
not seriously recommend the rough-and-tumble way of
functioning for the long run.

A government and each of its functions, like the indi-
vidual, must mature. However, if maturing consists simply
of acquiring more firmly established and highly refined
ways of doing things, we have an inevitable contest between

 

MR. KROEGER is executive vice-president of Crijffenhagen-
Kroeger, Inc., San Francisco public administration and 
nance consultants. This material is condensed from a speech
prepared for the joint meeting of Bay Area Chapters of
American Society for Public Administration, Public Per-
sonnel Association and Society for Personnel Administra-
tion, Oakland, California, January 1963. Mr. Kroeger was
on the stat} of the National Recreation Association’s 5th N a-
tional Institute in Recreation Administration, Washington,

D.C.. 1960.
76

Men To M31]

a static organization and a dynamic set of conditions—the
old collision of the immovable object and the irresistable
force. If our government structure and functions are to be
self-renewing and adaptive to new conditions, what must
mature is a system within which continuous innovation and
regeneration can occur. This has been the genius of our
legal and constitutional system. It has matured through
slow change, yet has provided the means within which rapid
social and economic change can occur without violence. Our
administrative system must do the same.

If we indoctrinate our young professionals and potential
administrators in an elaborate set of fixed beliefs about
personnel principles and practices—or about anything else
related to public service—we are ensuring their early obso-
lescence as part of the machinery of government. We must
encourage skills and habits of mind which will assure con-
tinuous change and grth in the individual. Then we will
have a system that provides for its own continuous renewal,
for the fashioning of new ideas to meet new conditions, and
for the acceptance of new concepts when they are offered
by others.

Change is not inherently a threat. There can always be
continuity along with change. Change in one way or another
will force itself upon us. Our great need is to direct that
innovation toward useful goals, preserving our basic values
while changing our ways to cope with our problems.

WE CAN LEARN sound lessons from the sciences re-

sponsible for so much of our recent progress. The
scientist whose ingenuity brings revolutionary change by a
break-through in his field personifies change. Yet his unique
achievement depends on the long established continuities in
his life. Each step in his search for new truth or refinement
of old truth. reflects attitudes, habits of mind and skills to
which his colleagues and all his predecessors have contrib-

uted. He exemplifies scientific tradition and an intellectual
system of which the most significant element is that it is a
tradition and a system designed to facilitate its own change,
continuation, and growth.

What is true of a new organization is equally true of a
concept, such as the merit principle, when it is new. A new
organization is loose in procedure. informally organized,

RECREATION

ur Problems

and variable in its policies. It experiments with various
ways to solve its problems. It is flexible and open to the
lessons of current experience. It is not weighted down by
orthodoxy and tradition. As it matures, it develops fixed
policies and settles on habitual ways of solving problems.
Thus, it becomes more efficient but, at the same time, is less
flexible and less willing to benefit from new experience.
The unusual experience or the new idea appears as a threat,
rather than a contribution to improvement, to the point
where there is finally a rule or precedent for everything and
a standard reaction to every stimulus.

Even more restrictive than the written rules are the un-
written. The written rule at least can be read, analyzed,
challenged—and, with effort, amended. The unwritten rules
are a collective attitude and accepted way of thinking and
acting, defying analysis, and certainly not subject to formal

 

amendment. In the long-established organization—in the
rigid system—We give less credit to one who is highly moti-
vated, who has ingenuity and initiative, than to one who has
an encyclopedic knowledge of the rules and accepted prac-
tices. Means triumph over ends; principles become the
prisoner of procedure. As rules, customs and procedures
extend their tentacles, energy is bottled up completely or
scattered through all the channels of conformity. The task
of masterng the rules smothers energy, destroys zest, damp-
ens spontaneity, cripples creativity.

THE MOST SERIOUS handicap to our capacity to innovate

and progress can be broadly described as the “vested
interest.” The vested interests are not merely the individuals
or organizations of great wealth and power. In government,
every officer and employe is in a very real'sense the vested
interest. The established ways of doing things are held in

FEBRUARY,’ 1964

Don’t let principles become
the prisoner of procedure

place not simply by habit and inertia, but by the enormous
restraining force of those vested interests. Our personnel
laws, rules, and customs threaten to remain unchanged for
the simple reason that to change them would endanger the
rights, privileges, or advantages of individuals and groups.
The civil servant claims as rights what originally came to
him as the incidental benefits of a plan conceived to protect
the public.

In the changing world in which we live, creativity and
versatility are priceless assets. The capacity of our govern-
ments to meet the quickly changing demands depends upon
the adaptability of those who man the key administrative,
professional and technical stations in these governments.
Our governments will have the capacity for quick adjust-
ment to meet the ever shifting problems of change only if the
individuals within them have been selected for their capacity
for innovation and adaptation, and can work in an environ-
ment in which this capacity is utilized to the utmost.

What are the characteristics of the individuals We seek and
what can we do to recruit them? Certainly these charac-
teristics cannot be expressed in terms of kind and amount of
specific education and experience. That approach hires only
part of a man and not necessarily the most important part.
We need to look to the whole man—his talents, his interests,
his enthusiasms. The qualities we seek are more universal,
more fundamental, more elusive, admittedly less subject to
objective measurement than is mere knowledge and experi-
ence; and hence, unfortunately, difficult for the personnel
administrator to understand or to accept.

The creative man, first of all, is not imprisoned by fixed
habits, attitudes, and routines. We need, then, to seek, to
welcome and to encourage differences of opinion and inde-
pendence of thought. The creative man never stops testing
his own potentials. Most human beings are only partially
aware of the full range of their abilities. The rigid selection,
promotion, classification, and other procedures of our pub-

lic personnel systems almost guarantees this in public serv-
ice. Instead of rewarding length of service and a normal

standard of conduct and performance, We must single out for
recognition the individuals who take it on themselves to
learn new skills; and we must positively develop and conduct
programs that Will enable them to explore all their potential.

77

THE CREATIVE MAN will risk failure in order to learn.
One reason older people and older organizations learn
less is that they are willing to risk less. We are too painfully
sensitive to failure. Yet he who would learn, he who would
innovate, he who would create, he who would lead, must risk
failure all his life. The wisely conceived system will not
punish the inevitable mistakes made by those who are trying
to learn something new.

The creative individual believes in what he is doing. He
knows the importance of following the lines of his deep con-
victions. Most organizations, most personnel systems, un-
fortunately do not find these attributes easy to live with.
Drive and conviction can be a nuisance. The enthusiast
annoys people by pushing his ideas a little too hard. He
makes mistakes because he is too eager. He lacks the cool,
detached urbanity of the ideal organization man. But the
wise organization will recognize high motivation as a
precious asset and make allowances for the excesses of its
enthusiasts.

Responsible people are concerned with the rapid growth
and complexity of the problems of urban government, as
p0pulation increases and migrates to urban centers. In-
cluded among those concerned people are local ofhcials, who
recognize that if local government cannot cope with the
problem, central governments will try. Sharing in this con-
cern has been the Ford Foundation, with a lively interest in
the phenomenon of metropolitan government. This led to a
grant by the Ford Foundation, to be used under the general
aegis of the American Municipal Association, but by a sepa-
rate body identified as the Municipal Manpower Commis-
sion, in a study of urban problems and their manpower
implications.

The Municipal Manpower Commission assigns a major
responsibility for the improvement of government man-
power to the professional organizations. The implication is
clear that organizations such as these will be well advised to
forego the trappings of an employe protective association
and become genuinely concerned with high professional
standards and, even more particularly, with the conditions of
government employment which will attract an increasing
number and a better quality of administrative, professional,
and technical personnel.

This does not imply fault by individuals now in the gov-
ernment or by present organizations as much as it suggests
only that we have to do still more. The quality of public
service we see today far surpasses the best we hoped for in
public administration thirty years ago. However, being tre-
mendously superior in comparison with the standards of the
past, based on the problems of the past, is not good enough.
We cannot be content with day-to-day problem-solving and
decision-making. We need the added ingredient of the vision
to see the coming problems and the initiative to prepare to
meet them.

W E NEED particularly to deve10p some new ideas about
administration and professional service. Our person-
nel agencies and the occupations concerned have encour-
aged more and more specialization. The confines of our
professional and technical classes become narrower and nar-

78

 

rower. With relatively few notable exceptions, the oppor-
tunity for promotion is confined to directly related classes—
and with what result? We have more and more individuals
driven to know more about less. Each tends to see all gov-
ernment revolving around his own activity, and to have
too little appreciation of where all the others fit.

The Municipal Manpower Commission says we need
better technicians—and to that requirement I would add that
we need more complete technicians. The complete techni-
cian has not only mastered the specialized practices and
processes of his calling, but also understands and can adapt
the underlying principles; and, beyond that, has objectivity
and breadth in evaluating the significance of what he does
in relation to the total setting in which he works.

HE DEVELOPMENT of better administrators is directly

related to this point. We need more administrators who
are truly administrators; not just supervising technicians.
We have known for years that our promotional and com-
pensation concepts cause us to make poor administrators out
of good technicians, yet who has dared to introduce cor—
rective practices? It is not an easy conversion to make. We
need to change concepts of organization; we need to change
concepts of promotion; and we need to change concepts of
compensation.

Through changes in organization, we need a clearer
separation of technical operation from administrative plan-
ning and coordination. Our compensation systems must be
revised so that a top technician, under the right circum-
stances, can draw as much or even more pay than the ad-
ministrator to whom he reports. The promotion plan corol-
lary of all this, of course, is that we should draw administra-
tors from broader fields than a direct line of advancement
from the technical services supervised. I find an increasing
tendency to accept these points intellectually, and yet with
little initiative or determination to bring it all about.

All of us concerned with government—with the form of
its organization, the legal concepts on which it is based, the
political action by which it is directed, and the adminis-
trative methods by which it is conducted—must be equally
concerned with the grave question of how we are going to
bring government to a degree of flexible competence, capable
of turning to meet new problems, whatever their nature or
the direction from which they come. The answer will come
from the administrative, professional and technical creative
man. The system must attract and encourage the creative
man. This is the challenge the commission poses. 

I BELIEVE human experience teaches that if we cannot
succeed in our present position, we would not suc-
ceed in any other. Unless, like the lily, we can rise pure
and strong above sordid surroundings, we would prob-
ably be moral weaklings in any situation. Unless we
can help the world where we are, we could not help it
if we were somewhere else. The most important ques-

tion is not the sort of environment we have but the kind
of thoughts we think every day, the kind of 1deals we
are following, in a word, the kind of men and women

we really are. The Arab proverb is admirably true:
“That is thy world, wherein thou lindest thyself.”
—HELEN KELLER.

RECREATION

RECREATION in

LOW-COST HOUSING PROJECTS

EDERALLY aided low-rent housing
F serves more than two million
members of low-income families.
Often they need additional assistance to
overcome the inadequacies and handi-
caps caused by poverty and lack of op-
portunity. Concern for these families
is not only for the cause of their pov-
erty, but for helping and encouraging
them to become self-sustaining mem-
bers of the community. Local housing
authorities are particularly concerned
With providing the children with ade-
quate opportunity for play, learning,
and development. Ideally, a local au-
thority which is planning or providing
houses for low-income families plans
jointly with community agencies, in-
cluding:
0 Schools which provide recreation
programs in addition to their educa-

tional responsibilities.

0 Agencies providing recreation and
character-building programs for chil-
dren and youth.

0 Municipal and county recreation de-
partments.

0 Agencies providing play, education,
and care for pre-school children, par-
ticularly when these services are for
children in fatherless families where
mothers are Working.

0 Agencies which assist the elderly to
meet their social and recreation needs.

SINCE housing authorities do not have
funds to pay for the services of
recreation leaders, they welcome pro-
grams which are provided and operated
by city or school recreation systems,
settlement houses, YMCA’s, boys9 clubs,
and other public and private agencies.
To supplement or complement available
community recreation facilities, local
authorities are permitted to provide (1)
indoor community space, (2) outdoor
playgrounds on the project for younger
children, (3) outdoor recreation space
for older children and adults, and (4)
a limited amount of recreation equip-
ment.

Recreation activities and facilities at

FEBRUARY, 1964

public housing projects, while provided
primarily for the benefit of the tenants,
are open to the community. National
agencies, notably the National Recrea-
tion Association, provide advice and as-
sistance to local agencies in establishing
and improving recreation programs.
Before the U.S. Public Housing Admin-
istration approves preliminary draw-
ings for community space, there must
be joint planning between the local au--
thority and appropriate agencies who
will conduct programs in the space, and
a determination is made that the space
is needed and will not duplicate existing
facilities.

S PACE for inddofcommunity"faCilities

including recreation and other ac-
tivities, may be provided in accordance
with this formula:

0 For general purpose space, the max-
imum total net area shall not exceed
eight square feet per bedroom, in proj-
ects of less than a hundred bedrooms;
in projects of one hundred bedrooms
and over, the maximum total net area
is limited to eight hundred square feet,
plus four square feet for every bedroom
over a hundred.

o In housing for the elderly, the gen-
eral purpose space is calculated at
twenty-five square feet per dwelling, in
projects of less than fifty dwellings; in
projects of fifty to ninety-nine dwell-
ings, the maximum total net area allow-
able is 1,250 square feet, plus twenty
for every dwelling over fifty; in projects
of a hundred and more dwellings, the
formula is 2,250 square feet, plus fif-
teen for every dwelling over a hundred.

Community space can be jointly fi-
nanced by the local authority and some
other community agency, provided that
the authority does not contribute more
than the permissible capital cost under
the formula limits, and that the facility
will serve public housing residents. For
additional details, please get in touch
with the local housing authority in your

locality or with the PHA Regional Of-

fice for your area. #

   
 
 
 
   

 

 
    
   
   
  
   

RECREATION
DIRECTORS-

l35 skilled instruc—
tors in NO major
cities, coast to
coast.

JUST ASK US!
1k

WORLD’S
LARGEST
LEATHER

LEA‘I’HER COMPANY

  
   
 

P. 0. BOX 791-BE
FORT WORTH. TEXAS

Write today for Tandy’s big
112 Page Craft Catalog

.
mt»... "'- w

    

   

9....
‘ \ "

(Est. 1912)

SLOMON'S

SOBO®

G LU E
“King of All Adhesives”

Saves you $ $ on Crafts, Party Favors
and Holiday Items. Over 2,500 uses. Non-
inflammable. odorless, strong bond. When
used on fabrics “Makes the Needle Need-
less”. Can be dry cleaned. -

Better stores. If unobtainable, send $1 for
special ojj'e'r. Giant size $1.50. W. of Miss.
$1.75.

Slomon's, Dept. R, L. I. City ‘I, N. Y.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 79

RESEARCH BRIEFS

 

A Long, Hard Look

NEW HAMPSHIRE is taking a long, hard look at its outdoor
recreation assets—past, present, and future. Over the

next few years, all facets of outdoor recreation within the
Granite State are to be the subject of a most vigorous study.
Project director of the all-embracing undertaking is Mary
Louise Hancock, planning director of the state’s Division
of Economic Development. With a $50,000 allocation by
Governor Wesley Powell and the Executive Council from a
special $9,000,000 recreation bond issue as a starter, DED
officials were able to go to Washington and request and re-
ceive federal assistance.

A significant portion of the program is concerned with
the estimation and planning for the long-range recreation
demands in the state. State Parks Director Russell B. Tobey
said: “Increases and changes in recreation participation and
use in the past two decades have been so great that not only
new open space and recreation facilities are needed, but also
whole new concepts in preservation of open space, of land
occupancy and density, are required. Vast changes in hu-
man desires and the increased participation by people in
all forms of recreation activity require a reappraisal of rec-
reation participation use, now, and in the future, in New
Hampshire.”

The project will include a study of the history of recrea-
tion in New Hampshire, its social and economic impacts;
an inventory and evaluation of existing public and private
outdoor recreation facilities; and the identification and
evaluation of natural resources worthy of preservation for
public use and enjoyment. A program will be prepared to
guide the future development of public and private recrea-
tion areas. The study will provide for the coordination of
plans and programs of local, state, and federal agencies and
organizations concerned with various phases of outdoor
recreation. It will provide programs which should help
preserve the natural attractiveness of a great part of the
state. The resultant programs also should aid in the reduc-
tion of vulnerability to urban and rural blight and the
stimulation of local action in renewal and rehabilitation.

A Greater Destiny

ESTABLISHMENT of a conservation and development com-
mission with “unquestioned power” to preserve San
Francisco Bay in essentially its present form was urged in
a report issued recently by a research city planner at the
University of California in Berkeley. The author, Mel Scott,
of the UC Institute of Governmental Studies, cited the
“duty” of the governor of California to take steps to create
such a commission. Entitled The Future of San, Francisco
Bay, the 125-page paper sharply criticized indiscriminate
public and private filling of the bay, and declared that a bay
conservation agency “must be able to destroy forever the
notion that the bay is a potential source of new living space.”

“San Francisco Bay has a greater destiny than to be filled

80

with mud and sand and converted into real estate,” Mr.
Scott asserted. His report, the product of two years’ investi- -
gation, pointed out that much of the bay is privately owned
or controlled by cities and counties, and that all but 187 of
its 435 square miles are so shallow that they could be filled.

The UCB author called upon the governor, “as spokesman
for all the people of the state,” to direct public attention to
“the necessity for a solution that will properly acknowledge
the interests of the state while also assuring recognition of
the legitimate interest of local governments in the Bay Area
and the far broader interests of the federal government.”

In proposing a bay conservation and development com-
mission created under a federal-state-local compact, Mr.
Scott said that it must have “authority superior to that of
private interests, cities, and counties, and it must be subject
only to extraordinary veto by the state and federal govern-
ments. The legal and fiscal powers of the agency must be
sufliciently broad to enable it to implement all its policies,
but such powers as taxation and eminent domain should
be used only in the event the agency cannot obtain the co-
operation of other units of government and of private enter-
prise.

“There must be no question,” he continued, “of the ability
of the bay conservation and development agency to purchase
or condemn bay lands. The mistakes of past generations
must not be allowed to deny present and future generations
their rightful heritage: a superb bay used primarily as a
bay, for navigation, production of minerals and fisheries,
and for recreation and scenic enjoyment.”

Five Maj or Issues

CIVIC LEADERS in the New York City metropolitan region
may like suburban living, but they will support meas-
ures to keep the central cities healthy. They want their cars
handy, but they are almost unanimous in urging better pub-
lic transportation. They like private homes on private lots,
but they are willing to invest substantial funds in public
parks and will accept metropolitan planning to keep natural
countryside nearby.

More than fifty-six hundred people, most of them active
in civic or social organizations, took part last spring in a
several-step survey: the Regional Plan Association’s Goals
for the Region Project. About three-fourths lived in the
suburbs or in rural areas around their fringe; the rest, in
central cities.

Though most participants had relatively high positions
and income, and backgrounds that would lead one to expect
political conservatism, a large majority supported more
state or federal involvement in metropolitan planning in
several ways and more public investment and controls on
deveIOpment. For example, nearly two-thirds of those living
outside the cities approved a metropolitan planning agency 
with limited enforcement powers delegated to it by the three
states involved (New York, New Jersey, and Connecticut).
All but seven percent felt their part of the region was more

RECREATION

than a little affected by what was going on elsewhere in the
metropolis.

Volunteers were recruited by the RPA mainly through
civic, political, and social organizations. They read back-
ground material and then met five times in small groups
throughout the region. Each meeting started with a half-
hour TV show produced by EPA, Telic, Inc., and WPIX-TV
(Channel 11), which donated the time as a public service.
Then they discussed key issues facing the metropolitan area.

Project participants commented primarily on five major
issues facing the metropolitan area if population soars by
six million over the next twenty to twenty-five years as
experts predict:

o How to get everyone to his job without traffic jams,

0 Whether to invest in vital central (core) cities or let them
deteriorate and lose population,

0 What pattern to set for the outer areas of the region which
probably will house almost all of the added p0pulation,

o How much parkland to set aside for the public,

0 How much effort to invest in making the region beautiful.

Participants also told their preferences for living condi-
tions and lot sizes. Project participants used the region’s
parks a good deal and wanted more of them. Two-thirds
visited a large outdoor recreation area (other than a golf
course) ten times or more during 1962. Seven out of eight
used a large park at least once.

About eighty-five percent would support “large-scale pub-
lic expenditures” to acquire more parks for the region;
sixty-three percent favoring them “strongly”; the rest,
“somewhat.” Only about five percent opposed spending
more for parks.

They also favored neighborhood open space in new
housing subdivisions. About seventy-three percent favored
the idea of residential “clustering,” providing a common
open area for a neighborhood playground or land left in its
natural state, so that a group of one-family houses has both
private yards and some larger open areas.

Project participants also were concerned about “what
things look like.” Four out of five strongly favored “stronger
controls to preserve trees and natural landscape in new
developments.” Only one percent of all the participants
opposed such controls. Well over half strongly favored
“some community control over the appearance of new build-
ings and renovations” in the cities. Only two percent op-
posed. About half strongly favored “a large-scale effort to
plant trees and shrubbery on city streets” and “stronger
provisions against commercial development alongside high-
ways” in the suburbs and outer areas.

Finally, about seventy percent of the participants would
pay $200 or more out of their own pockets in buying a new
home in a suburban development to be rid of overhead
wires, putting them underground. One in five would pay as
much as $500.

A final compilation of the responses and interpretation
of them will be published by the Regional Plan Association
early in 1964. The association is a thirty-four-year-old
citizen organization working for the coordinated develop-
ment of the three-state metropolitan area surrounding the

Port of New York.

FEBRUARY, 1964

ALL-“AMERICAN HEAVY-DUTY

     

Features Not Found
In Any Other Grill

I Built just like a small, com-
plete cooking range. Positive
6-way draft control gives faster,

    
  
   
  
   
        

Portable Stationary

model is as model for . . . .

illustrated permanent eaSIer kindllng, saves fuel, 1n-

with heavy instauation sures tenderer, juicier steaks,

Stove ITO" has support chops, barbecues. Cooks, bakes,

I)??? Gfrf'" for sat"? warms—burns charcoal, wood
I s 0 . In concre e.

or coal. Grill revolves to per-
mit cooking to windward. Cast
of heavy stove iron with steel

PATENT PENDING

pipe support, for lifetime serv-
ice. Shipped fully assembled.

 
    

a. 94:-
aw: ' -

.v,

WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED [ITERATURE AND PRICES

AMERICAN

PLAYGROUND DEVICE (0., ANDERSON, IND.

WORLD’S LARGEST MANUFACTURERS OF FINE P‘ARK. PICNIC.
PLAYGROUND. SWIMMING POOL AND DRESSING ROOM EQUIPMENT

 

 

Dated and Undated

0 Blue heavy simulated leather stamped in gold

0 Each holds one year’s issues

0 Opens flat for changes

RECREATION MAGAZINE
8 West Eighth Street, New York IOOII

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 81

NOTES FOR THE ADMINISTRATOR

 

Conserving Time

ONE OF THE PROBLEMS facing the recreation executive is
how to distribute his time so that primary attention is
given to matters of first importance and duties that can be
delegated are passed on to other personnel. .The following
suggestions to recreation executives for the effective man-
agement of their time have been adapted from a paper pre-
sented by Irving G. McNayr, the city manager of Columbia,
South Carolina, at an annual conference of the International
City Managers’ Association. Although especially applicable
in large cities, they should help all executives gain more time
for important aspects of their job.

0 Organize your work from day to day. Many find it well
to plan the next day’s activities in “a plan of action for
tomorrow” during the last ten minutes of the workday. This
ends the day on a note of completion and enables you to
relax during your leisure hours instead of worrying about
problems and projects of the next day.

0 Plan your work so that you tackle your toughest assign-
ments during your best hours, relegating secondary or more
routine tasks to the time of day when you’re more lethargic.
- Organize and consolidate the department structure so that
you have a minimum number of subordinates reporting di-
rectly to you.

0 Divest your office when possible of the purchasing and
personnel functions by utilizing centralized services.

0 Avoid, wherever possible, assuming the role of division-
al head. Let your division heads do the preliminary thinking
and planning on important matters and problems and submit
their recommendations, either in writing or orally. for de-
cision.

0 Develop complaint and follow-up procedures which rele-
gate routine complaints to proper divisions, and standardize
procedures in a manual of instructions or record forms.

0 Interest and train division heads and assistants in taking
over time-consuming details and duties which can be dele-
gated. An assistant with the proper ability, personality,
and tact can act on your authority as a point of central
clearance to:

0 Make a preliminary analysis of department reports and
note the items requiring your special attention.

0 Answer routine letters directly, read and dictate answers
to letters requiring your signature, and collect information
needed for questionnaires and letters.

0 Operate follow-up files to insure that division heads have
carried out orders and reported back to you on matters re-
ferred to them for action.

0 Assemble material and prepare the first draft or outline of
speeches.

0 Draft the budget, administrative orders, rules and regu-
lations, bulletins and reports to be submitted to the city
council or recreation commission after collecting necessary
information, considering alternative proposals and making
analyses.

0 Interview many callers and handle written complaints.

82

0 Assist in developing public relations, preparing monthly
and annual reports, special reports and leaflets, exhibits, and
radio and TV programs; prepare press releases for local and
national distribution and assist reporters in obtaining back-
ground material for stories and features.

0 Hold general staff conferences only when over-all policies
or matters concerning all divisions are to be considered.
Discourage interruptions from staff when a telephone call or
memo would suffice. Encourage citizens and employees to
arrange for appointments by telephone rather than just
dropping in.

0 Prepare and circulate an agenda for all meetings over
fifteen-minute duration. Avoid meetings where you don't
have a specific subject, unless of course you want to attend
to obtain necessary background information.

0 Try to establish specific press conference times for formal
meetings with news representatives.

0 Train your assistant and secretary to handle some com-
plaints and suggestions from citizens directly by having
them inquire about the nature of the subject to be discussed
and asking if they could take care of the matter in order to
save the time of waiting to see the executive.

To summarize, by delegating more authority to division
heads, consolidating your organization to reduce the num-
ber of subordinates reporting to you, utilizing competent
administrative assistants to handle details, and organizing
your own work schedule better, you can enlarge your ca—
pacity to do the job of management you would like to do and
are hired to do.

Stream Line

MONTANA municipalities, counties, or other subdivisions

of the state are required by law (Section 2 of Chapter
258 Laws of Montana, 1963) to notify the state Fish and
Game Commission of any planned construction project of
hydraulic project that would affect Montana streams. The
law, effective July 1, 1963, was designed to help protect
Montana fishing streams, so they might continue to provide
recreation for Montana residents and visitors. The Fish
and Game Commission shall in no way hold up or delay
proposed construction on hydraulic projects that have no
adverse affects on streams. Notice of planned construction
should be sent to the Fish and Game Commission as soon
as preliminary plans are completed, but not less than sixty
days prior to commencement of final plans for construction.
Notice is to include detailed plans and specifications of that
part of the project that will affect a stream in any manner.
When notice of construction is received, accompanied by
suitable plans, authorized representatives of the Montana
Fish and Game Commission will promptly examine the plans
and then notify the applicant within thirty days whether or
not the proposed project will adversely affect any fish or
game habitat.— Montana Municipal League News Letter.

RECREATION

Economic Impact

 

WHILE the primary value of state parks lies in the recre-
ation opportunities they provide the public, they also
have substantial values of an economic nature. So states
a report on Texas State Parks prepared by the Texas Tech-
nological College in Lubbock for the Texas State Parks
Board. The handsome jumbo-size (11” -by-17”) report de-
clares:

“Marked increases in leisure time, personal income, and
general mobility of everybody has recently boomed into a
‘pursuit of happiness’ which has permeated almost all phases
of our social and economic life. All businesses catering to

You’ll find

personal wants beam their sales promotion to leisure appeal.
The demand for participation in the ‘good life’ is . . . due
for substantial increase in future years, for we are now only
at the threshold.

“Aside from the general economic values of such recre-
ational facilities as state parks, there are definite and specific
economic impacts on communities in the vicinity of state

parks. These range from a rise in real estate values in the 
vicinity of the parks to increases in sales from park visitors  

after the park is established. In between, there is the boost

to the local economy caused by the acquisition and con- Available

struction of park facilities, creation of jobs, purchase of April I (NO bound)
materials and equipment, engaging of professional talent, $2.50 ($2.00 to NRA members)
as well as the usual services of food, clothing, housing, Order now from
automobile and mobile equipment servicing. Park oper- National Recreation Association
ations after the initial establishment create jobs and call 8 West 8th Street, New York IOOII

for the purchase of supplies and equipment. Numerous spe-
cial studies in various parts of the country substantiate such
conclusions.

“Visitors account for very substantial expenditures within
a twenty-five-mile radius of the parks. Expenditures per
park visitor may be from a $3.00 a day for the daytime A Rewarding Summer Vacation
visitor to $7.00 or $8.00 a day for the overnight user. A
park’s seasonal attendance may run into the hundreds of

thousands or even a million. The predicted minimum total    S
future state park attendance is 75,000,000—eighty to ninety   

percent daytime users and the remainder overnight users.
This totals up to a $250,000,000 business. Here is distinctly

a case of generating a big business while stimulating the
health and happiness of its citizens.

Early Planning I nsures

Private resident camps, tours, unusual Opportuni-
ties in the arts and sciences, academic-recreational
sessions, and programs for the handicapped and
maladjusted are informatively presented to aid
in the selection of an exciting summer experience.

“75,000,000 Visits : $250,000,000 Business”

_‘___location and enrollment

. . . " director’s winter address
Acquisuion Program

q PROGRAM of recreation land acquisition in Wisconsin
will take twenty-one years to complete and cost 3150,-
000,000 according to estimates in a report submitted to the

__fees and length of camping period
__featured activities

unique programs and facilities

State Conservation Commission by its comptroller, Elroy 13th ed, 320 PP” €101,134“, Paper $220
Baxter. He also said that the program cannot be carried 0
out unless the one cent added cigarette tax voted by the 1961 Order from
r state legislature for a ten-year $50,000,000 program is con- P O R T E R S A R G E N T
tinued for two decades. Mr. Baxter gave the following break- 11 Beacon Street Boston 8, Mass.

down of the $150,000,000 total: $50,000,000 to complete

acquisitions for projects already approved; $37,800,000
- for development; and $62,000,000 for maintenance and op-
I. eration during the twenty-one years.

Publisher of V
THE HANDBOOK OF PRIVATE SCHOOLS

 

IIFEBRUARYa 1964 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 83

III-s II A...I
III-IIIll-II-I

III-III III-III

IIII' II ‘IIII
"-7 .I I. ‘IIII
' r In; ‘9
' I III».

I Ill!’

III'

 

RECREATION
DIGEST

 

The soft, straight-grained wood of
the red cedar lends itself readily to
the skill of the totem carver. Ori-
ginal poles were susceptible to rapid
decay but modern methods and pig-
ments are expected to preserve the
wood indefinitely. At left is Munro
Martin, one of the few remaining
experts in art of totem carving.

RECREATION
OUT OF

NECESSITY '

The affinity of work and leisure

 

As" ------  . A» 3
Home weaving is still a cherished craft in the Gaspé area.

RECREATION

Joe A. Crapley

THE CHOICE of a hobby or sport often

depends on the nature of the coun-
try. The way games are played is often
influenced by the national origins and
occupations of the players, and the de-
velopment of leisure pursuits is closely
related to the economic background of
the country. Leisure pursuits in early
civilizations were often related to the ways people earned
their living. The Egyptians, Greeks, and Romans had pas-
times and games akin to their occupations. Man’s constant

 

striving to survive in an economic sense encourages skills
which may later become recreational. An affinity exists be-
tween man’s livelihood and his use of leisure time. Recrea-
tion in North America developed in similar fashion.

In the early days, farmers met to perform onerous jobs
together. “Bees” were organized to help where the time
necessary for one person to complete a particular job was
too great. In this way, stumping, slaughtering, logging, barn
raising, sugar making,'and harvesting were made easier.
Older people talked about the crops, the weather, politics,
recipes, and news of the old country. Since fowl plucking,
quilting, and rug-making were occupations for the women,
these became part of social events, such as sugaring off,
fowl and oyster suppers, and strawberry festivals. Eventu-
ally, sports, games, races, gymnastics, and feats of strength,
like putting the stone, hurling the hammer, and skills in han-
dling recalcitrant oxen or horses were also featured. The
bee provided a setting for discussion of family affairs, such
as house furnishings and new arrivals. It has been said that
“the bee has never been equalled as a clearing house for
gossip.” -

These bees were the forerunners of the small local fair
with its competition in homecrafts and flower arrangements,
cattle, butter, grain, and other farm products. Ploughing
matches were always popular events. The raising of horses
and improving the breed inspired competitions and horse
judging. Today’s trotting races, steeplechases, and jockey
meets have their origins in such activities.

Early exploitation and settlement in North America were
usually started by the fur trade. Skills of the trader which
became competitive were snowshoe racing, dogsled racing,
pack carrying, and tobogganing. Social events in the forts
and trading posts were the order of the day.

MR. CROPLEY is welfare supervisor for Atomic Energy of
Canada, Ltd. His duties include serving as recreation direc-
for in Deep River, Ontario. This material is condensed from
a paper he prepared for the Dulce of Edinburgh’s Second
Commonwealth Study Committee. (For further evidence of
recreation developing from the inevitable see Page 63..)

FEBRUARY, 1964

0rdre de bon Temps, an organization to promote recrea-
tion was established by Champlain in 1604 at St. Croix Is-
land; in 1605 the movement had spread to Port Royal. This
was the first social club in North America to be founded
by settlers. The social awareness of the pioneer is illustrated
by the time and money donated to rebuilding fellow settlers’
houses when destroyed by fire. This loss was usually com-
pensated by volunteer labor or subscriptions and the re-
building culminated in a party.

Early settlers enjoyed hunting, fishing, visiting taverns,
attending bees and fairs, horseracing, circuses, and elections
and found pleasure in cards, chess, whist, wine and conver-
sation. Skating and sledding were some of the winter pas-
times. Auctions, weddings, and wakes were excuses for ex-
tending the jollification for several days.

Lumbering inspired amusements for woodworkers in iso-
lated camps, shanties, and settlements. Examples are log
hurling (remaining upright on a floating log as it spins) ;
log or canoe jousting {balancing on a log or canoe with a
pike pole covered with a boxing glove or cloth buffer);
timber-tOpping competitions (race by highriggers to climb
a tree, cut the top, and return to the ground) , or wood chop-
ping contests to determine the swiftest axman.

The fishing industry has nurtured the pastimes of still
and fly fishing, surf casting, and the use of dories and boats
to sail and explore lagoons and bays. Originally, a beach
was sought as a place for drying fish, not bathing. Sea
chanties developed as a means of rhythmically handling
work such as turning the capstan or drawing in the nets from
the sea. Home crafts were practiced—needlecraft, weaving.
and rug-making are examples of the necessities of the fisher-
folk turning into leisure pursuits. Yarning—the telling of
tell stories and interpreting the customs and traditions of
the sea—is still a great source of enjoyment, as is wood-
carving for ship decoration. Sailing competitions are also
associated with fishing. Yachting, an offshoot of the fishing
industry, became popular on the Great Lakes in the early
1800’s. The use of boats and the art of fishing in the ocean,
the lakes, and rivers occupies a large portion of the leisure
time of many.

The ranching industry encouraged the skills of the
rancher and cowhand through the promotion of stampedes
or rodeos, including chuckwagon racing, calf roping, wild
horse and steer riding, and cattle exhibitions. Skills used
for work in these cases are competitive in a leisure sense.

COMMERCIAL enterprise has played an important. part in
recreation from pioneer days. Taverns and inns were
distinct centers of social life of the early community. During

Continued on Page 9]

85

MARKET NEWS

 

o LEAKPROOF SEAL. By expanding instead of contracting as
it hardens, X -Pando Pointing Mortar provides an exception-
ally tight seal wherever a permanent cement bond is re-
quired. Expanding from .002” to .004” per cubic inch,
X—Pando Pointing Mortar can be applied quicker and in
lesser amounts than conventional pointing mortars. Its char-
acteristic of wedging into every minute crevice permits it
to form an extra tight bond within a half-inch deep area.
It can be used on wood, brick, stone, concrete, and masonry.
Applied easily with a pointing trowel, X-Pando Pointing
Mortar requires only water for use and can be used as a
brush coat over stone or brick. It can be applied in tempera—
tures as low as 10° F., and withstands effectively all at—
mospheric and climatic conditions, it is non-toxic and may
be colored to match. It can also be used for anchoring metal
grille-work, expansion bolts and railings, and sidewalk
lights, et cetera. It comes in oyster white and natural grey.
Literature is available from X-Pando Corporation, 43-15

36th Street, Long Island City, New York 11101.

0 FUN AND FITNESS. New “imagineered” physical-fitness
obstacle courses for use in school gymnasiums or on play-
grounds are built for rugged, hard use, indoors or out, and
constructed of heavy-duty galvanized pipe and zinc grip
steel. As an added feature, all equipment is coated with a
colorful baked epoxy finish.

 

The complete obstacle course, designed for easy, compact
storage, can be unassembled in minutes. The nine-piece
course can be stored in an area only 3’-by-12’. For floor
protection and safety, each piece includes special serrated
feet made from extruded rubber. A nine-piece obstacle
course includes virtually every piece of equipment required
to build strong bodies through school physical-fitness pro-
grams. The obstacle course includes: hurdles, high parallel
bars, low parallel bars, horizontal ladder, fence, balance
beam, dodge posts, tunnel, and turning bar. A seven-piece
obstacle course is also available. Pieces are available indi-
vidually. For complete information and colorful, new liter-
ature, write to Came-Time, Inc., Litchfield, Michigan.

0 SLURPFUL. A vacuum cleaner the size of a truck, called
the V actor, is powerful enough to pick up loose dirt, sand,
wood chips, and refuse of all kinds. It is mounted on a
dump-truck chassis so you just drive it away and empty it at

a disposal site. Although originally designed for vacuum

removal of wood chips, it works equally well with pebbles,
small rocks, sand, loose dirt, sludge, and other types of trash
and litter.

The V actor came about by happenstance. For the last
several years, its manufacturer has made a piece of equip-
ment called a Stump Gobbler which removes stumps by
chewing them up into sawdust and small chips. Removing
the stump was easy, but cleanup sometimes became a prob-
lem . . . particularly when chips fell into grassy areas. For-
tunately, another division of the company had a ready-made
solution. As the originator of portable pneumatic equipment
for conveying grain, it merely adapted the same principal
of pneumatics to this new problem—and the V actor was
born.

 

One man is all it takes for the entire operation. He just
drives the V actor to the cleanup site, places the pickup hose
in the unwanted material, and slurps it right into the air-

tight vacuum box that holds over fourteen cubic feet of ma- '
terial. When it’s full, he just dumps it through a large i

hinged door at the rear. A dry filtering system removes all
dust from the air without the annoyance of bags to empty,
water to flush, or filters to clean or replace. Complete in-
formation on the V actor is available from Myers-Sherman
Company, South Illinois Street, Streator, Illinois.

0 OVERHAULED. Old-type, heavy, smelly, cumbersome, un-
sanitary gym mats can now be replaced with easyoto-manage
colorful Lite-W eight Mats in 4’-by-7’ and 5’-by-10’ varsity
sizes. The new Wonder-Lite cellular plastic one-piece core,
with a full two inches of resilient, shock-dispersing safety,
is covered with a rich Tuf-Hz'de vinyl 32-ounce double-
strength cover in four youth-oriented colors. Each mat is
built with Snug-Lok heavy.duty zippers for end-to-end latch-
ing—"replacing old-style latching and tying, or the use of
Valcro and similar adhesive strips which pull apart under
stress.

A small child can carry and handle the 4’-by-7’ mat alone.
Special hanger kits can be used for wall mounting with the
“D” rings on the side of each mat. The vinyl cover is im-
pervious to dirt, oil, perspiration, and grime. and cleans
with a swipe of a cloth. Complete details and specifications
on these new mats are contained in a new full-color catalogue
available from the Program Aids Company, lnc.. 550 Car-
den Avenue. Mount Vernon, New York.

For further information, please write directly to source given and mention RECREATION Magazine.

86

RECREATION

RESOURCE GUIDE

 

F AIDS—Please Write Directly To Sources Given

ARTS AND [RAHS

THE COLORFUL WORLD of paper crafts is a
realm both wonderful and wide. A new Den-
nison manual Offers forty pages of ideas and
objects ranging from paper sculpture, mo-
biles, and murals to puppets, starchies, and'
gu-mmed paper craft. Profuser and gs.in il-
lustrated, it is available for $.50 at craft stores
or from Dennison Manufacturing Company,
Framingham, Massachusetts.

PUT IT WHERE? A new booklet entitled
Planning (1 Ceramic Studio or an Institution-
al Ceramic Arts Department contains valu-
able suggestions for planning a ceramic arts
department and emphasizes proper utilization
of equipment for classroom or workshop use.
The booklet also contains proven floor plans
based upon actual classroom installations.
Recreation leaders or architects planning new
ceramic departments will find this booklet a
col aid in their work. Available free from
. D. Alpine, Inc., 11837 Teale Street, Culver,

California. ‘

    
  
 
  
  
 
 
 

' INC IN NEW IDEAS. Hundreds of craft prod-
cts for individuals and- institutions are

graphically presented in a 76-page catalogue
for 1964, completely illustrated with a detailed

 

    
  
    
    
  
  
  
    
    
  
  

Page

merican Playground Device ._ ____________ __.._ 81
‘nrmco Metal Products __.___.______---.,-_... 45
herrydale Farms _.__.._ .......... ____ 51
lassitied Advertising ......... -_..__.__... 88
osom ._.__..----___.___--....__.- Inside Front Cover
imco-Gray m... _____________ -..__ 47
mblem and Badge __--..-__-__...__.__-____... 65
onda Associates .__..._...-._.______.__.__--___ 65
wikbilt --__._....--_._.__--__.._--_-_.__--_...__.__.. 47
nroe Company --_____________....._____ 47
vie-Mite _--.....__._....___.____._.._....._...___ 47
ayground Summer Notebook _____ _-._ 83
orter Sargent _______ ..___._.._..__....-.._ 83
‘ reation Magazine Binders ___-_.--_____ 81
ntinel Lockers __--____--..__ Inside Back Cover
mon’s __..__._-....__..___________._... l9
ndy leather ....__.. lllll ___._____.__ 79
ophy World ._____.__-.__.__.s.____..__..-..._ 47
.8. Savings Bonds ___-_.u_-.____r.... Back Cover
"  .. 7:  .-:=E:€=i::“-E=§s‘-

EBRUARY, 1964

_-._,

description of all materials in every area of
do-it-yourself creativity. Included are a line
of unfinished walnut boxes, materials such
as Plexi-Glas, which resembles a glass but
may be sawed or bent, and Whip Wax, which
decorates and sculptures candles with no
melting required. Also featured in the cata-
logue is a wide selection of art supplies and
handicraft books. The book section covers
all major phases of craft instruction. The free
catalogue, complete with handy index, may
be obtained by visiting any area store or writ-
ing to the Advertising Department, American

Handicrafts, 1011 Foch Street, Fort Worth,
Texas.

EQUIPMENT

MISTERY. Versatile, mist-type spray units are
compact and mobile, easily moved into alleys,
dumps, and other hard-to-reach areas where
flies, mosquitoes, and other insects abound.
A power-agitated hopper attachment permits
the application of dust or granules and the
use of smoke tracers to make the spray pat-
tern and coverage visible to the operators.
Catalog L-1452, giving all the details and
specifications on the complete Rotomist line,
is available by writing John Bean Division,
FMC Corporation, P.O. Box 9490, Lansing 9,
Michigan.

EATING OUT. Designed for parks, roadside
rests, and picnic areas, Miracle Grills have top
grates of heavy crackproof malleable iron, are
set to a convenient stoop-free height of thirty-
seven inches, and turn easily on the support
for positioning to wind direction to avoid
smoke in the eyes. Grates swing to one side
for easy fueling and cleaning. The theft-proof
grills are mounted on a two-inch tubular steel
support which can be imbedded in concrete
and equipped with concealed locking device.
For complete specification details, write to
Modern Products Division, Stacy Equipment

Company, P.0. Box 422, Tiflin, Ohio (specin
“Miracle GriIP’ bulletin}.

A PLACE TO LAY YOUR HEAD. A new lightweight
camp bed folds into a small package for easy
portability. Weighing only eight pounds, the
new Origo camp bed is made of rugged
Swedish airplane steel tubing, with sturdy
green canvas that gives firm, comfortable sup-
port to a weight of 260 pounds or more. It
comes with its own cloth carrying case and
features a raised headrest that eliminates the
need for an extra pillow. It can be easily set
up or dismantled by one man in a matter Of
seconds. Folded into its own carrying case,
the Origo camp cot measures a compact 37"-
by-8”-by-2‘/2". When set up, the bed stands
73 inches long, 23 inches wide, and seven
inches high. Another slightly longer and
wider model is also available. For further
information write to Gloy’s, 11 Addison Street,

Larchmont, New York. (In Canada, write to
Lander Trading Company, 3985 St. Lawrence
Boulevard, Montreal 18, Quebec).

HAVE YOU TRIED playing golf in a snowstorm?
You can do it with Pocket Golf before a roar-
ing tire! This game can be exciting indoors
and out, popular on playgrounds as well. It
is built for rugged use in recreation centers
and in schools. Only the finest materials have
been used. For more information and free
booklet of other game suggestions write Weko
Games, 13730 Desmond Street, Pacoima, Cal-

ifornia.

PROGRAM AIDS

SEAL 0F APPROVAL. As its industry self-
regulation program enters its tenth year of
operation, the Comics Magazine Association
of America has issued a new, completely re-
written and expanded edition of its informa-
tional booklet Facts About Code-Approved
Comics Magazines. The 32-page booklet in-
cludes a brief history of the comics magazine
industry, the text of the CMAA code govern-
ing editorial and advertising matter, an ex-
planation of how the Comics Code Authority
operates to enforce the code, a chapter on the
educational values in comics magazines and
one on the eflicacy of industry self-regulation
as a means of elevating editorial and adver-
tising standards.

More than thirty million comics magazines
are sold each month. The average comic book
has a “passen” readership of at least three
persons. There are approximately two hun-
dred different comics magazine titles, most
of them appearing bimonthly. Many govern-
ment agencies and leading industrial firms
publish comic books to win popular accept-
ance for their programs or products. The
Comics Code Authority passes on all mate-
rial intended for publication in a comic book
by a CMAA member before it is published.
The Seal of Approval is granted only after all
the material has been found to adhere to
code standards. The booklet is available free
at the Comics Magazine Association of Amer-
ica, 300 Park Avenue South, New York

10010.

NO GROOVE JUMPINC HERE! A phonograph
sound system is engineered to fulfill the
public-address needs for games and other ma-
jor events requiring maximum amplification.
The Promenade H offers superlative fidelity,
plus spring mounting to prevent groove-jump-
ing from floor vibration. The Strobeselector
variable-speed motor (with a two-year guar-
antee) requires no warmup, plays seven to
sixteen records, and may be adjusted to any
desired speed for rhythm and movement
classes. Also included are two microphone
inputs and a monitor outlet. For full details
about transcription players, tape recorders
and other audio products, write to Rheem
Califone Corporation, 5922 Bowcroft Street,
Los Angeles 16, California.

STRENGTHEN YOUR PROGRAMS with music.
Powerful voice reinforcement, high-fidelity
music reproduction, a full set of illuminated
controls, all in one convenient case weighing

87

only thirty-seven pounds, can be used in an
endless variety of assignments. There are
inputs for two microphones. High fidelity
music begins with a GE magnetic cartridge.
The massive ten-inch, two-pound turntable
with dual neon strobe is driven by a four-pole
motor. The forty-watt peak ultra-linear out-
put system provides deep audience penetra-
tion. There are separate tone and mixing con-
trols for mike and phono. The two-way speaker
system includes a twelvecineh woofer, 31/2-
ineh tweeter, and crossover. Portable sound
systems ranging from simple ten-watt mono-
phonic models to elaborate eighty-watt stereo
systems are available to suit your require-
ments. Write for free copy of Bulletin TRC-
10 to Neweomb Audio Products Company,
6824- Lexington Avenue, Hollywood 38, Cal-

ifornia.

LOW-008T AIDS——

Order these resources and references di-
rectly from source given (enclose remittance).

IT CAN HAPPEN—AND DOES! A handbook for
developing safety programs in oiiices has been
published by the National Safety Council. The
Safety Handbook for Chice Supervisors is the
latest of the council’s manuals of accident
prevention and the first written expressly for
oiiice and clerical work. The handbook de-
scribes causes of common oiiice injuries, safe
practices, proper use of oihce furniture and
machines, smart dress, fire prevention and
control, and maintenance of safe conditions
throughout the oiiiee. Two chapters tell how
the supervisor can make safety a part of oiiice
operations and how a safety program works.

Single copies can be ordered from the Na-
tional Safety Council, 425 North Michigan

Avenue, Chicago 60611, for $2.15.

PROGRAM DiscovERIEs. Valentine’s Day is fea-
tured in the eighteen-page packet, Days of

 

Discovery, F ebruary-May. A story, “The
Legend of St. Valentine,” is related to a serv-
ice project for American Indian children,

“Valentine Seeds to Share” and also to a proj-
ect in behalf of Algerian boys, “Valentine
Dimes for Tool Boxes,” Children’s activities
centering around Korean New Year’s, the
Dell Festival, and the Boys’ Festival of Japan
are described in this packet for adult leaders
of children six to twelve years old.

Brotherhood Month resources, plans for a
St. Patrick’s Day party, a local service project
called “A Riddle-a-Day,” ideas for May bas-
kets, an Israeli song, and a story, “It Hap-
pened on Cherry Street,” are included in a
companion packet entitled, Friendly Things
to Do, February-May. Priced at $.25 each,
these packets may be secured from the Chil-
dren’s Program, American Friends Service
Committee, 160 North 15th Street, Philadel-

phia 19102.
O

Acrrvrrv MATERIAL. Back in March 1955 the
U.S. Department of the Army issued a manual
called Program Handbook for Army Service
Club Personnel (#28-1). It was oriented
naturally to service clubs but contained ex-
cellent activity material such as quizzes, ideas
for indoor carnivals, et cetera. They were se-
lected for three reasons: they work; they are
adult; and they are stimulating. Leaders of
older youth and young adult groups would
find much of this material very interesting and
useful. The manual is now available once
again from the Superintendent of Documents,
Government Printing OEee, Washington 25,

DC. for $1.25.

MENTAL FITNESS. The National Association
for Mental Health has issued a revised and
expanded edition of its authoritative fifteen-
page bibliography Recommended Books for a
Mental Health Library. Background and
general references include a psychiatric glos-
sary, books on psychiatry, psychosomatic med-
icine, modern marriage, emotional stress and
health, essentials of family living, psychiatric

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING

RATES: Words in regular type $.15 each
Words in boldface type $.25 each
RATES: Minimum ad accepted  $3.00

DEADLINES: Copy must be received by
the fifth of the month preceding date of
the issue in which ad is desired.

COPY: Type—or clearly print—your message and the address to which you wish
replies sent. Underline any words you want to appear in boldface type.

Sent copy with remittance to:

RECREATION Classified Advertising, 8 West 8th Street, New York, New York 10011.

 

HELP WANTED

Recreation Supervisor.
$549669. College graduate
with major in recreation or
related field, plus one year's
experience. With one of
the fastest growing cities in
California. Interviews will
be given at California and
Pacific SW Conference in
Anaheim. Filing deadline,
February 28. Apply City
Manager, City Hall, 170
Santa Maria Avenue, Pa-
cifica, California.

Salesmen. Largest manu-

facturer and distributor of
arts and crafts materials in
the East is looking for part-
time salesmen for Southern,
Midwestern, a n d W e s t
Coast states to call on rec-
reation facilities and
camps. Commission basis.
Selected territories are
available. Must have ex-
perience. Please send de-
tails to Box R12, RECREA-
TION Magazine, 8 West 8th
Street, New York 10011.

Therapists for California
State Hospitals. Opportu-
mties to plan and conduct

individual patient recrea-
tion as well as special
group activities; modern
equipment and facilities.
Positions open to college
graduates with major in
recreation or recreation
therapy including super-
vised field work. Salary
range: $486 to $590 a
month. Promotional oppor-
tuniti es, attractive employee
benefits. Write: Medical
Personnel Services, Cali-
fornia State Personnel
Board, 801 Capitol Mall,
Sacramento, California
95814.

The publisher assumes no responsibility for service: or items advertised here.

clinics, the role of schools in mental health, ‘
mastering tensions, and others of interest to '
laymen and professionals. |

One section covers books on special mental 4
health subjects, including mental illness, ag- 1
ing, baby and child care, adolescence, and ‘
common problems faced by parents. Several I
books on law and psychiatry and industry and 1
mental health are included, as well as auto- 1
biographies of persons who have recovered I
from mental illness. Listings are included for ‘
teachers, physicians, nurses, and clergymhn.
Where a title is not self-explanatory, a brief
annotation of the book is included. The price
of each publication is given, as well as the ‘
name of the publisher from which it can be
obtained. The bibliography is available for
$.20 from the National Association for Mental
Health, 10 Columbus Circle, New York 10019.

Two EXCELLENT MANUALS explore the need _
for and the value of camping for the retarded.
Selected papers from the First Annual Insti-
tute on Camping with the Mentally Retarded
are available in a iifty-eight-page mimeo-

graphed pamphlet for $1.00 from the Associa-
tion for the Help of Retarded Children, 200

Park Avenue South, New York 3. It was
edited by Meyer Schreiber, director of group
work, recreation, and camping for the associa- '
tion, and contains papers by many leaders. I

From Canada comes a pamphlet on camp
activities for this group entitled Programme 4
Manual for Camps for Retarded Children. It I
may be ordered from Mrs. June Braaten, di- I
rector of recreation services, Ontario Associa-
tion for Retarded Children, 48 Deepwood
Crescent, Donmills, Ontario, Canada, for
$2.00.

outlining the history, tools and methods of
batik cloth dyeing as practiced in Indonesia,
gives a complete description of this ancient
hand process and the tools used, together

with step-by-step instructions, diagrams and
pictures of finished work. The “Writing” #1

.
SAY IT IN BATIK. A sixteen-page booklet,l

Batik, with a linenized cover, is available
for $1.50 from Craftools, Inc., Wood-Ridge,
New Jersey 07075.

INDIAN LORE. Three mimeographed, fifty-page
booklets have been prepared by Robert C.
GilleSpie, based upon his first-hand knowledge
of the early recreation activities of his people,
taught him by the older Indians. The activities
come from the Sioux-Cheyenne tradition
which the author learned as a boy growing
up on an Indian reservation. In addition to
being specialist in Indian lore, Mr. Gillespie
has.a BS. degree in group leadership and
recreation from Ohio State University.

ing Indian themes in their programs will find
a treasure house of ideas in these three book-
lets: American Indian Camp Lore, Sham Bat-
tles, Pageants, Ceremonies and Dances;
Games for Campfire Challenges; and Ameri-
can Indian Crafts. They are $.75 each, or
$2.00 for the set of three (please include $.25
per order to cover the cost of postage and
handling). Order from the author, 914 Har-
wood Drive, Columbus 4, Ohio.

Playground leaders, Scout leaders, camp
counselors, or other leaders interested in us-
RECREATION

PERSONNEL

 

Keith G. Briscoe

T ODAY’S college-
union director
must be a man of
many talents. If

   

you were to ask a
. number of college
A presidents What
_ characteristics
he felt were necessary in a union direc-
tor, you would receive a multitude of
answers. The type of “superman” they
wOuld come up with in the end would
look something like this: He would need
a master’s degree in recreation because
of the need to teach college students the
proper use of leisure time. This same
man would also need a master’s in psy-
chology, sociology, or even possibly in
student personnel work, because the
union director carries on all of his pro-
graming with the aid of student volun-
teers. Above all, he would need a mas-
ter’s degree in food-service management
as many a union rises or falls because
of its food-service department. A good
union director could not get along with-
out a degree in business administration
‘ because the typical union operation
runs into hundreds of thousands of dol-
lars. I could mention that a background
I in higher education, the hne arts, hotel
management, and public relations is
also needed.
A man possessing all of these char-
acteristics cannot be found; but, a per-
Ison with a background in recreation
I has experience in many of these areas,
and recreation-minded people are need-
ed in the college-union held. The ex-
perience and knowledge a union direc-
tor should have are not very different

 

MR. BRISCOE is assistant director of the
' Memorial Union of the University of
New Hampshire in Durham.

’ FEBRUARY, 1964

from What is expected of a recreation
director. Both must know the objec-
tives of the use of leisure time, possess
the ability to teach these objectives, and
encourage others to teach them. Both
must do this through paid workers and
volunteers; thus, the experience of su-
pervising a staH is essential.

THE DIRECTOR of a community center

or college union must have hnan-
cial know-how. The business manager
or administrator of a reCreation depart-
ment would feel right at home in a col-
lege union. Both directors are familiar
with the many problems of their areas
and facilities. The only area many rec-
reation directors would hnd new to
them in the union held would be that
of the food service; however, in many
unions a director of food service is also
employed. He would also need an un-
derstanding of the history and objec-
tives of higher education.

The recreation supervisors of play-
grounds, centers, athletics, or even mu-
sic will hnd their counterparts in the
college union as supervisors of work-
shops, theaters, art, outings, and music.
The union at Tulane University has a
swimming pool; the University of Wis-
consin has more than twelve hundred
members in its outing club; one union
has an art collection valued at $5,000,-
000; many unions have auditoriums or
theaters—Purdue has three theaters;
most unions have recreation areas with
billiards, table tennis, bowling lanes,
and so forth. It would be difficult to
conceive that a professional person in
community recreation could not hnd a
comparable position in the union held.
As a matter of fact, numbers of union-
staff members have come from the com-

 

munity recreation held or have taken
course work in recreation leadership.
Also, advancement into general college
administration is not uncommon.

The union at the University of New
Hampshire has had three directors. The
hrst director (who was in the held of
community recreation) is now dean of
men and director of Boston University’s
new hve-million dollar union. The sec-
ond director is now dean of students at
the University of New Hampshire. The
third director is still on the job and can
see that the union held will challenge
him all of his life. These instances are
characteristic not only of the New
Hampshire campus, but also of cam-
puses all over the nation.

“What growth is there in the college-
union held?” might be a question pass-
ing through your mind. In 1949 there
were only 150 unions, and today there
are eight hundred unions either in use
or in various stages of planning. More
and more college administrators are
seeing the need for a recreation, social,
and cultural program of the union kind,
and are taking the necessary steps to
provide it.

It is not difhcult to predict the s00pe
of the need for competent leadership in
the future. With more than twenty-three
hundred colleges and universities, iof
which eight hundred have unions at this
time, only approximately a third of the
potential has been deve10ped. Junior
colleges, numbering seven hundred and
multiplying rapidly, are just beginning
to become interested in unions.

CONGRESS has recognized college un-
ions as “an essential educational
service,” and the Federal Housing
Agency, since 1956, has loaned funds

89

to aid in the financing of three hundred
buildings. Some $90,000,000 more has
been earmarked for union loans for the

next three years.
In the Association of College Unions

publication of 1961 is a listing of com-
parative compensation in college-union
work for directors which ranged from
$5,400 in schools under twenty-five
hundred students to $18,000 in schools
over ten thousand students. The size
of the school is not the criterion for the
director’s salary. One school pays $13,-
000 to its director each year. It is not
uncommon for a man less than thirty
years of age to receive more than $8,000
in many parts of the country. Colleges
and universities are willing to pay sub-
stantial salaries for experienced leader-
ship, plus offering many of the same
benefits to its union staff as to its fac-
ulty members.

It would be impossible to expound
on all of the rewards in the union field.
There are, however, certain drawbacks
in this field which would bother a few
individuals. Often in community rec-
reation, everyone in the community
thinks that he knows more about the
job than the director. In the college-
union field, however, he will run into
colleagues who do know more in speci-
fic areas. So, the union is much like
community recreation or all profes-
sions; it does have its share of disad-
vantages. Most of the unions are open
more than a hundred hours a week. A
good director feels that he must know
what is happening during these hours.

Every weekend is usually taken up
with some form of activity. However,
there are rich rewards, also. College
students are forming the habits of their
lifetime in our unions. For this reason,
many union directors feel that unions
are not only community centers, hut ed-
ucation and communication centers as
well. The opportunity to teach good
carryover recreation habits, apprecia-
tion of the arts, and the ability to get
along harmoniously with our fellow
men are just a few of the director’s daily

rewards.

If you are interested in looking into
the college-union field, you may write
for information to: Association of Col-
lege Unions, Employment Service, The
Wisconsin Union, University of Wis-
consin, Madison, Wisconsin. #

90

R FOR THE ILL é? HANDICAPPED

 

+ Minnesota has a pilot project for
helping the rural aging, according to
Aging, published by the U.S. Depart-
ment of Health, Education, and We]-
fare. Under the Community Facilities
and Services Act, a grant of $45,000
was made in the spring of 1963 to the
Minnesota Department of Health for a
three-year pilot demonstration project
in Morrison County by the Public
Health Service, U.S. Department of
Health, Education, and Welfare. The
project is designed “to provide guide-
lines to rural areas for the mobilization
and coordination of resources to meet
the needs of the chronically ill and
aged.” In general, the goals are:

0 To help the county better define the
needs of its chronically ill and aged.
0 To assist local organizations and
agencies in attaining better coordina-
tion in meeting these needs.

0 To assist the community in exploring
and developing new programs where
these appear worthwhile.

It is also hoped the project will dem-
onstrate that, for many older people,
community services can be the best
answer to health and social problems.
Services such as home nursing care and
home aide assistance can help many peo-
ple remain in their own homes instead
of moving into nursing homes, at a sav-
ing to themselves, their families, or the
community.

+ During the 1963-64 school year, a
survey is being made of senior adult ed-
ucation at the University of California
at Los Angeles specifically to report on
the possibility of developing courses for
retirees, according to Aging, publica-
tion. of the U.S. Department of Health,
Education and Welfare. Mrs. Esther
Stangle, formerly the first full-time sen-
ior adult instructor at Pasadena City
College and possibly one of the first in
the nation, has accepted an internship
at UCLA to do the survey.

For six years, Mrs. Stangle has been
teaching senior adult education classes,
first at Westside Community Center,
then in the gerontology division of the
Los Angeles City Schools, and finally
at the college. The content of her
courses, she says, “was applied modern

 

Dn. THOMPSON is director of the Na-
tional Recreation Association Consult-
ing Service on Recreation for the III
and Handicapped.

Manon Thompson, Ed.D.

sociology.” More important than con-
tent, she feels, is the method she used
to increase retirees’ understanding of
themselves and others. Several of the
classes were conducted as radio pro-
grams. During this period, Mrs. Stangle
also developed a number of twenty-five-
minute tape recordings of discussions
by senior adults on problems of modern
living which can be used as spring-
boards for discussions by other groups.

For further information, including
availability of tape recordings, write to

Mrs. Stangle at P.O. Box 24461, Village
Station, Los Angeles, California.

+ Bernard L. Boutin, administrator of
the U.S. General Services Administra-
tion, is working for the removal of
architectural barriers in federal build-
ings so that handicapped workers and
visitors can move about with a mini-
mum of hazard and discomfort. He
said: “The contributions that handi-
capped workers can make to the well-
being of our nation cannot be overesti-
mated and it behooves us all, in or out
of government, to see to it that barriers
blocking such contributions are re-

moved.”

+ Secretary of Health, Education and
Welfare, Anthony J. Celebrezze in an
article written for Performance, maga-
zine of the President’s Committee on
Employment of the Handicapped, re-
cently said, “Not giving the handi-
capped an opportunity to achieve the
degree of independence of which they
are capable not only adds insult to in-
jury but is an economic waste. So re-
habilitation of the handicapped is not
only good public policy from a humani-
tarian standpoint, it is good public pol-
icy from an economic standpoint. . . .
We must redouble our efforts so that we
may hasten the day when employment
of the handicapped in obs that they can
do will be standard practice on the part
of all employers, large and small, public
and private.”

4‘ Frances Helmig is the new executive
director of the American Occupational
Therapy Association. A native of At-
lantic City, New Jersey, Miss Helmig
received her AB degree from New J er-
sey State Teachers College in 1934. Her
professional education includes a cer-
tificate from the Philadelphia School of
Occupational Therapy and a master’s
degree from the University of Southern

California.

RECREATION

Recreation Out of Necessity
Continued from Page 85

 

the era of the stagecoach, hostelries provided rest and relax-
ation for the traveller. Organized groups used taverns for
their meetings and later built their own meeting rooms. At
first, church services as well as dances and banquets were
held in taverns. Dances were often held in barns, but the
original ballroom was usually the large hall over the driv-
ing shed of the local tavern.

Eskimo and Indian influences are also interwoven into
North American culture. An abundance of raw materials
and the absence of machines encouraged the creation of
homemade and home-decorated articles of furniture and
household necessities. The Eskimo carves ivory and soap-
stone from which he fashioned lamps, pots, spears, hunting
instruments, and miniature toys. Indian skills in beading,
rug-making, and sash-making are still in evidence. Figur:
ines and totems developed by the West Coast Indians and
the argillite carvings of the Haidi came from religious ideas.

Eloquent storytelling and singing of Indian legends
dramatized the feats of animals, birds, and past heroes.
The wisdom of the past guided the young and whiled away
' the winter in the longhouse, the wigwam, the tepee, and

' the cellar house. Indian dramatic skills are illustrated by.

" his ability to simulate animal movements while covered in a
‘ buffalo hide, penetrating a herd, and making his kill. In
1606 Marc Lescarbot wrote the first play to be written and
produced in North America, Le Theatre dc Neptune en la
_ Nouvelle France.

Early prints, drawings, and maps were extremely ac-
curate considering the limitations of the instruments used
in drawng them and were produced by soldiers and fur

traders. Paintings by Kreighoff illustrate leisure in early
French Canada. A school for woodcarvers and artisans
operated near Montreal in the seventeenth century. Carv-
ings which would have seemed out of place in the crude and

rough homes of the settlers found their way into the churches
and schools.

S OCIAL activities, physical skills, and cultural pursuits in

North America mirror pastimes adopted from other
cultures. National origins influence the choice and popu-
larity of sports. With the British came tennis, cricket, rugby,
rowing, and badminton. Scandinavians introduced skiing.
Curling comes from Scotland and was first played in Canada
with large boulders or stones. Absence of suitable stones
forced the military to fill hubcaps of gun carriages, thus
originating curling irons which were in common use for
many years. Skating can be traced to the Dutch as can
half or kolbe, better known under its Scottish name of golf.
Stone throwing and wrestling were popular aboriginal
pastimes. Wrestling and fighting were popular amusements
of the pioneer; townships would compete to establish which
had the best man.

Canada’s national sport, ice hockey, had its origin in
Irish hurling, Scottish shinty, French hoquet, and English
field hockey ,and was also called shinny or shanty. Soldiers
played it with a ball, stick, and moccasins on frozen ponds
and rivers. Organization and refinements brought skates,
stick and puck or block. Hockey exemplifies man’s in-
genuity and triumph over the elements.

North American recreation reflects its diversity of emi-
gration and economic development as well as the art and
sports of its original peoples. Will today’s expanding free
time and “new leisure” be equally rich and productive? #-

 

BOWL ’EM OVER

 

The noted medical authority Dr. Mor-
ris F ishbein, former editor of the Jour-

THE CHIEF held a good-luck charm,

the magician held a big rock, and

everyone else held his breath . . .
in a moment the whole tribe would know
whether the gods were going to be good.
The magician wound up his throwing
arm and the big rock went rolling to-
ward the ten sheep bones that had been
planted upright in the earth. The rock
crashed home. The bones all toppled.
This meant that the gods would bestow
many favors.

That, students of ancient history tell
us, is how the game of bowling began.
If men hadn’t been anxious to learn the
will of the gods, bowling would never
have become a sport. Although only a
few fanatical bowling fans still insist
that there are gods who bestow special
favors on good bowlers, psychologists
do say that many bowlers today are par-
ticipating in the sport for almost the

FEBRUARY, 1964

same reason that men did at the dawn
of history.

Where else but in a bowling center,
the psychologists ask, can you stack all
your troubles so neatly and then knock
them into limbo with one sweep? Does-
n’t the crash of falling pins give you al-
most the same kind of satisfaction that
men once got from watching those sheep
bones go tumbling? It does, the psy-
chologists insist, and, as if to prove their
point, one housewife recently gave this
statement to a reporter out to discover
why people bowl: “All day long I worry.
Will my husband’s shirts get back from
the laundry in time? Why aren’t the
kids doing better in school? Things like
that. By the end of the day they have
me shaking. Well, I go bowling twice
a week. When I let that ball go sailing
toward the pins and see them go flying,
I somehow feel a lot better.”

nal of the American Medical Associa-
tion, says that bowling relieves tensions,
that to busy homemakers, for example,

“Bowling offers a relief from stresses
because it is a competition, but not the
kind of competition offered by after-
noon card games, where money is often
involved.”

Other doctors, along with Dr. F ish-
bein, agree that bowling provides ex-
cellent body-conditioning exercise that
can help to tone up flabby “office mus-
cles” and flatten out waistlines without
causing the undue exertion and strain
that accompanies other sports. Bowling

helps to bring shy people out of their
shells, Dr. Fishbein adds. He says that

many people who lack confidence in
their day-to-day dealings with others re-
gain it when they display their skill on
the bowling lanes.

91

TOM LANT Z RET IRES!

H o M A s W.
LANTZ, a mem-
ber of the Board of
Trustees of the Na-
Recreation
a n d

   

451

 

tional
Association
superintendent of
public recreation
for the Metropolitan Park District, Ta-
coma, Washington, retired from his
Tacoma responsibilities on January 31.
Mr. Lantz’s lifelong penchant for giv-
ing spirited personal leadership goes
back at least to his high-school days.
His professional career started as soon

as he had earned his BA degree at Muhl-
enberg College in 1922.

Tom Lantz has several compelling
forces at work within him. First of
these is the desire to make any place in
which he and his family live a better
and more satisfying place for all by
providing top-level public recreation.
During the past forty-one years he has
enriched the lives of large numbers of

people through his public recreation
leadership in Mystic, Connecticut;
Spring Lake, New Jersey; Orlando,
Florida; Reading, Pennsylvania; and
Tacoma. For nineteen years he has
served Tacoma well as a professional
leader and as a plain civic-minded citi-
zen.

Another inner force is his urge to
teach. Since he is a natural-born teacher
and a person who picks up graduate
courses along the way for his own im-
provement, it has not been surprising
to find Tom Lantz serving as a guest
lecturer or a discussion leader in rec-
reation and related classes in such in-
stitutions as Syracuse University, the
University of Pennsylvania, New York
University, and the University of Wash-
ington. Since 1947, he has served as
assistant professor of recreation at the
University of Puget Sound in Tacoma.
He has taken active part in the National
Recreation Association internship pro-
gram, training newcomers to the profes-

sion and giving them a firm foundation.

A third force, sparked by his natural
enjoyment of people and a desire to
serve, is focused largely on interna-
tional friendship and warm hospitality
to visiting persons from other parts of
the world. This quality was sharpened,
perhaps, by his own experiences abroad
when he himself was a stranger in a
strange land. In 1935, he was awarded
a grant by the Oberlaender Trust for
three months of study in Europe of the
recreation and cultural opportunities
for youth. In 1952, he was sent by the
U.S. State Department to serve for three
months as a recreation specialist in
Western Germany. Today, visitors to
Tacoma from abroad think of the Lantz
home as their home and of the Lantz
family as their family!

Let it be remembered, however, that.
as men go these days, Tom Lantz is still
a young man! Keeping in mind his well-
rounded background and his tremen-
dous energy, we wonder, in closing this
piece, whether that exclamation point
in our title had better be changed to a
question mark! #

 

NRA District Conferences
Continued from Page 61

 

ciation, is designed to integrate the thinking of the profes-
sional recreation leader, the volunteer, government oiiicials,
part-time recreation personnel in schools and municipalities,
church, industrial and military recreation personnel, and
interested lay citizens. Conference theme is “Recreation—
The Health of a Democratic Society.”

The conference program will include workshops on pro-
grams and leadership skills for volunteers; a seminar on
training and supervisory techniques for supervisors and
leaders; and sessions on community-school recreation cen-
ters, the recreation advisory council concept, a recruitment
and training of recreation personnel session, the hard-to-
reach teenager, commercial recreation, hospital and insti-
tutional recreation, maintenance, park planning and de-
sign plus many others. Conference speakers, in addition to
Maryland Governor J. Millard Tawes, will be leaders from
government, industry, education, and the recreation and
park field.

Baltimore, a city of over 950,000 population, situated on
the Patapsco River, twelve miles from the Chesapeake Bay,
is an industrial, wholesale, and shipping center. This area
frequently described as the “land of pleasant living” has
many points of interest: Baltimore and Ohio Railroad
Transportation Museum, Maryland Academy of Science,
Baltimore Art Museum, Zoological Gardens, Fort McHenry,

92

and numerous others. Tours have been arranged to visit

these historic and cultural sites along with other recreation
features in the vicinity.

N RA DISTRICT REPRESENTATIVE: Richard Westgate

 

NEW ENGLAND

 

HE New England District Conference will take place

May 17-20 at the Griswold Hotel and Country Club
in Groton, Connecticut. The program will he a broad one
including philosophy and practical suggestions, and have
sessions on preschool and elementary children, teenage,
young adult, adult, and senior citizens. There will also be
a session on park maintenance. The banquet speaker will
be William S. Simpson, president of the Raybestos Company
and member of National Recreation Association Board of
Trustees. The conference is designed to stimulate interest
in recreation, strengthen our philosophy and in every way
to assist the executive and his key staff to do a better job
when he returns to his community.

Places of interest in immediate vicinity of Groton include
the US. Coast Guard Academy and US. Submarine Base
in New London, Mystic Village and Seaport and the Electric
Boat Company atomic submarine launching site.

NRA DISTRICT REPRESENTATIVES: Waldo Hainsworth
Richard Tapply

RECREATION

FILMS

Huntley Reports
TV’s Chet Huntley has a sideline——

appearing in movies for club and em-
ploye groups. The famous newscaster
is on-screen host in many 16MM, sound
motion pictures available on free loan
to such groups. The films, of the docu-
mentary type, are in color and average
about twentyofive minutes running time.
Mr. Huntley’s appearance in these short,
authoritative reports on the American
scene has helped make them popular
for lunch-hour showings in industrial
plants. They also add a fillip to service-
club meetings and affairs.

In Taming a New Frontier he de—
scribes the building of the huge Glen
Canyon Dam in Arizona. He is sup-
ported by film footage of spectacular
engineering achievements. In Science
Rides the High Iron Mr. Huntley re-
ports on modern rail transportation.
He describes the role of the railroads
in the nation’s life and shows some of
the newer railroad devices, such as au-
tomatic dispatchers. He reports on U.S.
Water shortages in Pure Water and
Public Health, and in Bridge to the Fu-
ture he tells how the Colorado River was
successfully diverted by engineers.

Requests for the Huntley films should
be sent to Modern Talking Picture Serv-
ice, 3 East 54th Street, New York
10022, or to any of MTPS film libraries

in major cities coast to coast.

Focus on Cities

Based on Lewis Mumford’s celebrated

book, The City in History, a series of

six half-hour films, just completed by

the National Film Board of Canada,
will be distributed in the US. by Ster-
ling Educational Films. The series, en-
titled Lewis Mumford on the City, uti-
lizes contemporary material filmed in
cities in eleven countries, recreations of
cities of the past from graphic and
sculptural art of their times, and filmed
statements by Mr. Mumford to interpret
the views of this foremost authority on
metropolis. The six films comprise a
definitive study of the city as it once
was, as it is today, and as it may be if
it survives the dangers pointed out by
Mr. Mumford. The series has wide ap-
plication to courses of study in sociol-
ogy, history, architecture, and plan-
ning, and is of particular interest to
civic groups and others concerned about
the forces which now threaten to de-

stroy our cities. The individual films
Include:

Part I: The City—Heaven and Hell.
Outlines the opposed natures, creative
and destructive, of the city in history;
the elements that created the first cities

t FEBRUARY, 1964

 

about five thousand years ago; and the
forces that now threaten to destroy
“Man’s most precious collective inven-
tion.”

Part II : The City—Cars or People? A
study of an old but dangerously growing
problem—how to make the city accessi-
ble for meeting and mixing without al-
lowing transportation to make it con-
gested and uninhabitable, as the private
automobile now threatens to do.

Part III: The City and Its Region. His-
tory shows that cities thrive best when
they live in harmony and balance with
the countryside around them. How can
this balance be maintained or restored
in today’s sprawling metropolitan re-
gions?

Part IV: The Heart of the City. A study
of the growing sterility, dullness and
congestion that is destroying the vital-
ity, variety, and human scale that once
made cities physically attractive and
humanly creative.

Part V: The City as Man’s Home.
Slums, giant public housing complexes,
mass suburbs, anonymous and bleak
luxury apartments—almost everywhere
in our cities communal standards of liv-
ing are falling even as personal stand-
ards of living rise. How did this happen
and what can our cities do to improve
communal life?

Part VI: The City and the Future. An
outline of the prospects for the city and
some suggestions about restoring its
role as the focus of man’s highest
achievements.

Each film is 28 minutes, black and
white, $135.00. Series price: $750.00.
For further information, write to Ster-
ling Educational Films, 241 East 34th
Street, New York 10016.

Littered Heritage

America’s beautiful scenery and out-
door recreation areas—and their dese-
cration by the thoughtless “litterbug”
——-are highlighted in a new eighteen-
minute color film titled Heritage of
Splendor. The film, produced in the in-
terests of good citizenship by the Rich-
field “Oil Corporation of Los Angeles,
is narrated by screen star Ronald Rea-
gan. It presents outstanding color pho-
tography, with scenes of forests, moun-
tains, lakes, rivers, beaches, and parks.
It stresses America’s scenic and recrea-
tion areas as an important natural re-
source “worthy of devoted care and
protection,” and calls for both indi-
vidual and group effort in turning back
the blight of litter. Show it at your
schools, young people’s organizations,
civic and service clubs,- garden and
women’s clubs, church organizations,

and recreation, conservation, and
sportsmen’s groups. Prints—16MM,
sound and color—may be ordered from
Alfred Higgins Productions, 9100 Sun-
set Boulevard, Hollywood 69, Califor-
nia. The price is $101. Preview prints
may be requested from the same source.

Prize Winners

More than ninety motion pictures
from the award—winning TV series “The
Twentieth Century” are now available
to clubs, industries, churches and com-
munity organizations, as a service of
the Prudential Insurance Company and
its local agents. The 16MM sound films,
featuring Walter Cronkite, are distrib-
uted by Association Films on a free-
loan basis. Included are films on fa-
mous personalities, science and the
space age, sports, music and the arts,
World War II, post-war problems, and
significant events of this century. Pro-
duced by the public-affairs department
of CBS News, the series has received
fifty-seven national and international
awards and citations for excellence.

Sports subjects include: “Rockne of
Notre Dame,” “The Boating Craze,”
“Sports Cars: The Rage to Race,” “The
Violent World of Sam Huff,” and “The
Olympics.” Among the films on con-
temporary social problems are: “Keep

It Cool: Chicago and the Gangs,” “The
Delinquents,” and “A Child ls to Love”
(Austrian villages for homeless chil-

dren).

“The Twentieth Century” film-lend-
ing program is the largest of its kind in
the world. Since 1958, when the TV
series made its debut, the films have
been seen by more than 27,000,000 per-
sons at club, school and community
showings. For further information about
showing the films, organizations should
Write or phone their local Prudential
agent, Association Films, 347 Madison
Avenue, New York 10017, or Pruden-

tial Insurance Company headquarters,

Newark, New Jersey 07101.

Anyone for Diving?

The most current film on skin diving,
Anyone for Diving? was produced by
the Underwater Unit of the County of
Los Angeles Department of Parks and
Recreation. It was filmed and narrated
by Colonel John D. Craig, adventurer,
authOr and diver. The beginning of the
film is a seven-minute animated se-
quence.0n the history of diving. The
balance of the film is devoted to a skin-
diving class depicting the standards es-
tablished by the county department and
now universally accepted. The 16MM,
color, sound film runs thirty-five min—
utes and is available for $140 per print

postpaid from the county department
at 155 IVest Washington Boulevard,
Los Angeles 15.

93

NEW PUBLICATIONS

 

Dance! A Complete Guide to Social,
Folk and Square Dancing, J. Tillman
Hall. Wadworth Publishing Company,
Belmont, California. Pp. 242. Spiral-
bound, $3.95 (cloth, instructor’s
$4.95; trade edition, $6.50).

M ANY READERS have been fortunate
enough to have seen performances
of the delightful Westchester Lariats—
youngsters so well-trained and so ex-
citing to watch that they have given
exhibitions all over the nation. Many
may have seen them on TV programs,
such as the Lawrence Welk show. These
are ust everyday, boy-next-door young-
sters—but they have learned a tremen-
dous, ever-changing repertoire, de-
signed their own costumes, conducted
their own dance club. Dr. Hall is just
such a leader—one who sparks a group,
opens up new doors constantly, de-
mands and gets the best, and makes
dancing a vital. creative part of the
world, society, and life.

In his preface, Dr. Hall states his
purpose briefly: “Many people involved
in teaching dance have little or no pro-
fessional training in the field. I have
watched beginners struggling to inter-
pret dance materials that were written
primarily for experienced professionals.
The materials in this book have been
organized and written with the un-
trained person in mind. . . . Beginning
teachers of dance often have dichulty
deciding which dances the participants
will enjoy. This book contains dances
I have found to be the most popular
over many years of observation.”

The chapter on the history of dance
from primitive times. through all civil-
izations and nations, is informative and
interesting. Chapters on the values of
dance, teaching techniques and facili-
ties, and interpretation of music for
dance are short, concise, and lead di-
rectly into the main sections of the
book: elementary folk dances, inter-
mediate folk dances, advanced folk
dances, square dances, soft shoe and
tap, and social dance.

In each section, the dances are de-
scribed in simple terms, but very clear-
ly. In each, the type, source, music
(record numberl , formation, and basic
steps are given before the detailed de-
scription. Illustrations are charming
black-and-white photographs by Cecil
Lynch, who deserves great credit, and
by art work of basic social dance steps
by Mrs. Timmie Perstein.

To gild the lily, Dr. Hall has in-
94

cluded an appendix that tells how to
form a dance club, a glossary of dance
terms, an excellent list of references,
not only of books, but of dance maga-
zines and record companies, a classified
alphabetical index of all the dances in
the book (by name, origin, degree of
difficulty, formation, and basic steps)
and a subject index.

Don’t let this book slip byw-it’s too
good to missl Get out your checkbook
or your purchase order. And when your
copy comes, better chain it to your desk!

—-V.M.

Physiology of Exercise l4th edi-
tion), Laurence E. Morhouse, Ph.D.
and Augustus T. Miller, Jr., Ph.D., MD.
C. V. Mosby Company, 3207 Washing-
ton Boulevard, St. Louis 3. Pp. 323.
$5.85.

AS recreation departments go more
and more into activities specifically
planned for their health benefits and
aimed at physical fitness, they should
know about the physiology of exercise.
There was, for instance, some discus-
sion at one of the 45th National Recre-
ation Congress sessions on the effects
of strenuous physical exercise on the
heart. Some of the questions directed
to the panel indicated an uncertainty on
the part of many delegates—some of
whom are responsible for extensive
athletic programs. This should not be.
Drs. Morehouse and Miller include a
discussion of this subject and of the
so-called “athletic heart,” and back up
their statements with references. They
say, in part, “There is no medical evi-
dence that strenuous exercise can harm
the healthy heart of a young adult,”
and they go on to point out that there
are modifying effects of age to be con-
sidered.

This book is for those very people,
with questions and uncertainties, as
well as for all promoters of strenuous
athletics or outdoor sports, or physical
training for any purpose, who need this
type of background professionally. It
is now in its fourth edition and may
already be familiar to many of our
readers. Its content is technical and is
for the serious searching after facts and
not for those only casually interested.

Drs. Morehouse and Miller are well
known in the physical-education field,
and make a good study and writing
team. Dr. Morehouse is professor of
physical education at the University of
California at Los Angeles. and Dr.

Miller is professor of physiology at the
University of North Carolina Medical
School in Chapel Hill. Their book
should be carefully studied and made
available for the easy reference of all
concerned with the welfare and fitness
of participants in strenuously active
recreation programs—D. D.

Music Skills for Recreation Leaders,
Forrest J. Baird, Ed.D. Wm. C. Brown
Company, 135 South Locust Street, Du-
buque, Iowa. Pp. 215. $3.75.

THE AUTHOR has taught recreation
music at San Jose State College,
California, for many years. He deals
expertly with song leading, playing
melody instruments, rhythms, and lis-
tening. The presentation of each subject
is sound, thorough, and clear. Recre-
ation leaders who are not music spe-
cialists will find they can acquire the
skills necessary for conducting simple
music activities from this publication.
Many songs and references are included.

Pastimes with String and Paper,
William R. Ransom. Christopher Pub—
lishing House, 1 140 Columbus Avenue,
Boston, 20. Pp. 152, illustrated. $3.00.

If you have a piece of string (it
should be about two yards long before
tying) and a five-inch square of paper,
you are all set to learn over 150 string
games and paper-folding projects.
Many of the string games are based on
the cat’s cradle, known all over the
world, and dating far back in history.
(To those unfortunate readers who did
not learn to play cat’s cradle with a
grandparent, it is a game that involves
making various string shapes on the
fingers and then having someone “take-
off” onto his hands, making a difficult
diagram.)

Dr. Ransom, Walker Professor of
Mathematics at Tufts College for fifty
years, describes many, many of these.
and uses over seven hundred sketches
to clarify the words. A nice thing about
these sketches is that they are located
in the body of the instructions; there’s
no need to turn pages or look back to
find the sketch. In addition to cat’s
cradle games, paper folds that delight
children are described: a frog, a biter
fish, a sunfish, a chair, a table, a long
boat, tree, Chinese junk, and many
others. Other “games” involve knots
and splicing. These “tricks” with string

RECREATION

and paper will not interest everyone,
but they are simple, relaxed activities
that have survived the test of time, and
that never fail to amuse and entertain.
We are happy that Dr. Ransom has re-
corded them. We hope that this book
will help parent or leader to delight
children by involving them in these
simple activities that often have such

surprising results.

212 Ideas for Making Low-Cost
Physical Education Equipment, A.
Bruce Frederick. Prentice-Hall, Engle-
wood, New Jersey. Pp. 205, illus-
trated. $5.25.

Here is an eminently practical book
for any school, public recreation, youth-
serving agency, or individuals who have
more program than budget. The author
is supervisor of physical education in
the Oak Grove Schools, Elsmere, Dela-
ware; he also directs the Wilmington
Turners and supervises a Wilmington
swimming pool. His ideas have all been
tried out thoroughly before they were
included'in this book.

They are all simple and can be made
or constructed by a non-expert in car-
pentry. They are all aids for gymnas-
tics, sports, self-testing devices, target
games, rhythmics, aquatics, et cetera.
As a matter of fact, making many of
these devices would be very interesting
projects for school or recreation de-
partment craft classes. Hurdles, a rake
for jumping pit, a tilting board for
smash practice, skish target, volleyball
net rigging, bow and arrow rack, bal-
ance beams, a gym dolly—these are
only a few of the 212 ingenious ideas
that can save money and add pleasure.

Easy Plays for Boys and Girls, Helen
Louise Miller. Plays, Inc., 8 Arlington
Street, Boston 6. Pp. 329. $4.00.

This collection of nonroyalty plays is
especially suitable for youngsters from
around six to twelve or for teenagers
producing plays for younger children.
Many involve nursery rhymes and
simple singing games adapted for a
specific play. Many of them have hu-
mor, are timely, or are written for Spe-
cific holidays. Which Way to Hallow-
een, for example, is a clever play about
Wanda, a little witch who got lost and
wasn’t found until the next Halloween.
Bandit Bill Rides Again is a gay parody,
full of cowboys, Indians, city slickers,
a sherifi and his daughter, and, of
course, Bandit Bill. The doggerel would
delight boys, who would sympathize
with the cowboy’s lament, “But we’ve
run out of robbers, and bad men, you
see, ‘cause all of them lately have jobs

on TV!”

Our favorite, however, is the stirring

|FEBRUARY, 1964

and exciting account of Orvie, the
Mousetronaut. Orvie was bored by

games like Three Blind Mice and Hick-

ory, Dickory, Dock. He believed life

should be dangerous and mice should
be brave, and that “anything apes can
do, mice can do better.” And so he
volunteers for a rocket flight and be-
comes the hero of The Mouse That

Soared.

It is hard to find short plays suitable
for young children that are not banal.
All of the twenty-five plays in this col-
lection are not of equal interest or imag-
ination, but it is still an unusually good
collection.

Fabric Printing, Lotti Lauterburg.
Reinhold Publishing Corporation, 430
Park Avenue, New York 22. Pp. 112,
illustrated. $6.00.

This book was COpyrighted in Switz-
erland, phototypset in Great Britain,
printed in the Netherlands, bound in
Great Britain, and published in the
U.S.A. The result is beautiful: fine

paper, attractive type, magnificent pho-
tographic illustrations, clear, detailed
but simple directions. The author
proves that beauty in design does not
require elaborate or detailed drawings,

but can be achieved by respecting the
characteristics of the material used.
“There is no virtue in forcing one me-
dium to imitate another.” Her 141 il-
lustrations prove her point that respect
for the medium and simplicity in de-
veloping design result in beautiful pat-
terns full of originality and vitality.
The contents, well chosen and well de-
veIOped, cover the principles of fabric
printing, block printing (potato, cork
and rubber, and lino blocks), the use of
stencils, color, tie and dye fabrics, batik

work, and historical examples.

IN BRIEF

POTTERY FORM AND EXPRESSION (en-
larged edition), Marguerite Wilden-
hain. Reinhold Publishing Corpora-
tion, 430 Park Avenue, New York 22.
Pp. 157, illustrated. $7.75. This book,

written by one of the topmost potters of
today, would make a wonderful gift to
anyone interested in the field of pot-
tery. It is practical as well as beautiful.
The author has a marvelous philosophy,
and the chapter on “An Imaginary Dia-
logue between a Student and a Potter”
is worth the cost of the book to any
young man or woman interested in
working as a teacher or a craftman.

The book is full of shining black-and-

white photographs—Mary B. Cum-
mings.

 

BOOKS 8. PAMPHLE‘I’S RECEIVED

 

DEUNQUENCY

Polsk. Russell Sage

Cottage Six, Howord W.
ew York 10022.

Foundation, 505 Park Ave.,
Pp. 193. $3.25.

Crime Fighter: August Vallmer, Alfred E. Parker.
Macmillon Co., 60 5th Ave., New York 10011.

Pp. 181. $3.00.

Current Projects in the Prevention, Cantrol,_and
Treatment of Crime and Delinquency {Winter
1962-63). Natl. Research and Information
Center, Natl. Council on Crime and Delin-
quency, 44 E. 23 St., New York 10010. Pp. 711.

Paper, $3.50.

Delinquent and the Law, The, Ruth and Edword
Brecher. Public Affairs Committee, 22 E. 38th

St., New York 10016. Pp. 28. $.25.

Girls in Crisis. Welfare Federation, 1001 Huron
Rd., Cleveland 15. Pp. 100. Paper, $1.50.

Mass Media and the Moral Climate, The. New
York City Youth Board, 79 Madison Ave., New

York 10016. Pp. 120. Poper, $1.00.

Planning Community Services for Children in
Trouble, Alfred J. Kahn. Columbia Univ. Press,

2960 Broadway, New York 10027. Pp. 540.
$7.50.

Palice Work with Children, Richard A. Myren and
Lynn D. Swanson. U.S. Government Printing
Office, Woshington 25, D.C. Pp. 106. $.35.

School Dropout, The, Dorothy S. Chapple. Wm.
Frederick Press, 55 E. 86th St., New York

10028. Pp. 15. $.25.

School Failures and Dropouts, Edith G. Neisser.
Public Affairs Pomphlets, 22 E. 38th St., New
York 10016. Pp. 28. $.25.

Teen-Age Tyranny, Grace and Fred M. Hechinger.
Wm. Morrow, 425 Park Ave. 5., New York
10016. Pp. 259. $4.50.

Understanding the Problem Child, Dr. Louis Raths
and Dr. Anna Porter Burrell. Economics Press,
West Orange, NJ. Pp. 64. Paper, $1.50.

Vialent Gang, The, Lewis Yablonsky. Macmillan
$26560 5th Ave., New York 10011. Pp. 264.

Why the Swastika? Institute of Human Relations,
165 E. 56th St., New York 10022. Pp. 39. $.35.

EDUCATION

Educotor Substitutes for Parents, An, Agnes Sny-
der. Assoc. for Childhood Education Internat|.,
3615 Wisconsin Ave., N.W., Washington 16,

D.C. Pp. 56. Paper, $.75.

Federol Support For Education, F. J. Seidner. Pub-
lic Affairs Institute, 312 Pennsylvania Ave.,
SE, Washington 3, D.C. Pp. 22. $.15.

Flexibility in the Undergraduate Curriculum,
Charles C. Cole, Jr., ossisted by Lanora G.
Lewis. U.S. Government Printing Office, Wosh-
ington 25, D.C. Pp. 57. $.25.

Hellgaing Your Teenager Choose a College, David
Iein. Child Study Assoc., 9 E. 89th St., New
York 10028. Pp. 36. $.50.

Haw to Pay for Your Child's College Education.
Sidney Margolius. Public Affairs Committee,
22 E. 38th St., New York 10016. Pp. 21. $.25.

Learn While You Sleep, David Curtis. Robert Leni
Corp., 104 E. 40th St., New York 10016. Pp.
136. Paper, $1.35 (cloth, $3.00).

Meaning of Adult Educotion, The, Edward C.
Lindeman. Harvest House, Box 340 Postal Sta-
tion, Westmount, Montreal 6, P.Q. Pp. 143.
Poper, $2.00.

Pragrams far the Educotionolly Disadvantaged.
U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington
25, D.C. Pp. 105. $.50.

Student Financial Aid, Homer D. Babbidge, Jr.,
Ph.D. Amer. Personnel 6' Guidance Assoc.,
1605 New Hampshire Ave., N.W., Washington
9, D.C. Pp. 56. Paper, $1.50.

Talent and Tomorrow‘s Teachers: The Honors
Approach, Lanora G. Lewis. U.S. Government
PrintingOffice, Washington 25, D.C. Pp. 83.

$.35.

Taxation of Prizes, Awards and Scholarships, Jo-
seph Arkin. Sportshelf, P.O. Box 634, New
Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 59. Paper, $2.00.

Toward Effective Grouping. Assoc. for Childhood
Education International, 3615 Wisconsin Ave.,
N.W., Washington 16. Pp. 56. $.75.

Unusual Child, The, Joseph S. Roucek, Ed. Philo-
sophical Library, 15 E. 40th St., New York. Pp.
293. $6.00. '

You and Your Child’s School, Ernest Osborne. Pub-
lic Affairs Committee, 22 E. 38th St., New
York 10016. Pp. 28. $.25.

95

FAMILY

Children of Divorce, J. Louise Despert, M.D. Dal-
phin Books, Doubleday, Garden City, N.Y. Pp.
298. Paper, $.95.

Do-It-Yourself Parent, The, Richard and Margery
Frisbie. Sheed Cr Ward, 64 University Pl., New
York 10003. Pp. 209. $3.95.

When a Family Faces Stress, Elizabeth Ogg. Pub—
lic Affairs Committee, 22 E. 38th St., New
York 10016. Pp. 28. $.25.

FITNESS AND HEALTH

Adult Physical Fitness. U.S. Government Printing
Office, Washington, D.C. 20402. Pp. 64. $.35.

Caring for Your Feet, Herbert C. Yahraes, Jr. Pub-
lic Affairs Committee, 22 E. 38th St., New York
10016. Pp. 28. $.25.

Fitness for the Modern Teen-Ager, Janet A.
Wessel. Ronald Press, 15 E. 26th St., New York
10010. Pp.213. $4.75.

Health Instruction for Today's Schools, Dorothy
La Salle and Gladys Geer. Prentice-Hall, Engle—
wood Cliffs, N. J. Pp. 368. $6.75.

How to Be Healthy with Yoga, Sonya Richmond.
Arco Publ., 480 Lexington Ave., New York
10017. Pp. 157. $2.50.

KinesioIOgy, John M. C00per, Ed.D. and Ruth B.
Glassow. C. V. Mosby, 3207 Washington Blvd.,
St. Louis 3. Pp. 310. $6.00. '

Kinesiology and Applied Anatomy: The Science
of Human Movement (2nd ed), Philip J. Rasch
and Roger K. Burke. Lea and Febiger, 600 S.
Washington Sq., Philadelphia 6. Pp. 503. $7.50.

Personal and Community Health (12th ed.), C. E.
Turner. C_. V. Mosby Co., 3207 Washington
Blvd., St. Louis 3. Pp. 415. $6.35.

Physiology of Exercise (4th ed.), Laurence E.
Morehouse and Augustus T. Miller, Jr. C. V.
Mosby Co., 3207 Washington Blvd., St. Louis 3.
Pp. 323. $5.85.

Philosophy and Principles of Physical Education,
Charles C. Cowell and Wellman L. France.
Egegtice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, N. J. Pp. 236.

. 5.

Physical Education as a Career, George K. Ma~
kechnie, Ed.M. Bellman Publ., PO. Box 172,
Cambridge 38, Mass. Pp. 30. Paper, $1.00.

Rhythmic Activities: Series IV, Frances R. Stuart,
Virginia L. Gibson, Arden Jervey. Burgess Publ.,
Eggs. 6th St., Minneapolis 15. File of 97 cards.

Watch Your Line, A Guide to Posture, Carriage
and Fitness, H. A. Fielding and Dr. Walham

Weeks. Sportshelf, P.O. Box 634, New Rochelle,
N.Y. Pp. 78. $2.50.

FOLK and FAIRY TALES

Around the World Stories to Tell to Children,
Shirley Brown. Franklin Watts, 575 Lexington
Ave., New York 22. Pp. 140. $3.95.

Children's Treasury of Folk and Fairy Tales, A,
Eric Protter, Editor. Channel Press, 159 North-
ern Blvd., Great Neck, N. Y. Pp. 211. $5.00.

Egermeier’s Bible Story Book (rev. ed.), Elsie E.

Egermeier. Warner Press, Anderson, Ind. Pp.
576. $4.95.

FAIRY TALES: Golden Bird and Others, The,
Brothers Grimm, pp. 46; Thumbelina and
Others, Hans Christian Anderson, pp. 42; Young
King and Others, The, Oscar Wilde, p . 41.

_ P
Macmillan, 60 5th Ave., New York 11. $1.95
each.

Favorite Fairy Tales Told in Ireland, pp. 91; and
Favorite Fairy Tales Told in Russia, retold by
Virginia Hoviland. Little, Brown, 43 Beacon
St., Boston 6. Pp. 86. $2.95 each.

Folk-and Fairy Tales, A Children's Treasury of,
Eric Protter, Editor. Channel Press, Great Neck,
N. Y. Pp. 211. $5.00.

Golden Crane, The: A Japanese Folktale, Tohr
Yamoguchi. Holt, Rinehart and Winston, 383
Madison Ave., New York 17. Unpaged. $3.00.

Golden Fleece and the Heroes Who Lived Before
Achilles, The, Padraic Colum. Macmillan, 60
5th Ave., New York 11. Pp. 317. $3.95.

Grandma Moses Storybook, The, Nara Kramer,
Editor. Random House, 457 Madison Ave.,
New York 22. Pp. 141. $5.95.

King of Ireland's Sons, The, Padraic Colum. Mac-
$131119Clsn, 60 5th Ave., New York 11. Pp. 275.

Myths and Legends of the Greeks, Nicolo Ann

Sissons. Hart Publ., 74 5th Ave., New York
11. Pp. 192. $2.95.

Old Neapolitan Fairy Tales, Rose Laura Mincieli.
Alfred A. Kno f, 501 Madison Ave., New York
22. Pp. 123. 3.25.

Rabbit Catcher, The, and Other Fairy Tales, Lud-

wig Bechstein. Mocmillon, 60 5th Ave., New
York 11. Pp. 34. $1.95.

96

Tales of Make-Believe, R. L. Green, Editor. E. P.
Dutton, 300 Park Ave. 5., New York 10. Pp.
235. $3.25.

Tasha Tudor Book of Fairy Tales, The. Platt Cr
gABuSk, 200 5th Ave., New York 10. Pp. 92.
. 5.

Tell It Again: Great Tales From Around the
World, Margaret Hodges, Editor. Dial Junior

Books, 461 Park Ave. S., New York 16. Pp. 128.
$3.50.

Told Under the Blue Umbrella. Macmillan, 60 5th
Ave., New York 11. Pp. 161. $1.95.

Told Under the Green Umbrella. Macmillan, 60
5th Ave., New York 11. Pp. 188. $1.95.

Twenty-five Fables, compiled by Norah Montgom-
erie. Abelard-Schuman, 6 W. 57th St., New
York 19. Pp. 60. $2.95.

GAMES, HOBBIES, PARTIES

Abbott's New Card Games, Robert Abbott. Stein
Cr Day, 7 E. 48th St., New York 10017. Pp. 137.
$3.95.

Card Games, R. H. Thompstone. Sportshelf, P.O.
Box 634, New Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 89. $1.50.

CB Radio Construction Projects, Len Buckwalter.
Bobbs-Merrill, 4300 W. 62nd St., Indianapolis
6. Pp. 111. Paper, $2.50.

Chess, H. Galombek and Hubert Phillips. Thos. Y.
Crowell Co., 201 Park Ave. S., New York 10003.
Pp. 434. $4.95.

Collect, Print and Paint from Nature, John
Hawkinson. Albert Whitman, 560 W. Lake
Street, Chicago 6. Pp. 38. $2.95.

Crewel Embroidery,Old and New. Hearthside Press,
$£8 SE. 28th Street, New York 10016. Pp. 96.
.9 .

Hi-Fi Proiects for the Hobbyist, Leonard Feldman.
Hzovsrgrd W. Sams, 4300 W. 62nd St. Pp. 128.
$ . .

Kite Flying, Will Yolen. Thos. Nelson, 18 E. 4lst
St., New York 10017. Pp. 92. $2.50.

Knitting and Crocheting Proiects, Woman's Day.
Arca Publ., 480 Lexington Ave., New York
10017. Pp. 94. $2.50.

Magnetic Recording for the Hobbyist, Arthur
Zuckerman. Howard W. Sams, 4300 W. 62nd
St., Indianapolis. Pp. 128. Paper, $2.50.

Model Boats for Beginners, H. H. Gilmore. Harper
and Row. 49 E. 33rd St., New York 10016.
Pp. 97. $2.95.

Needlework Stitches, Barbara Snook. Crown Publ.,
g;%OPark Ave. 5., New York 10016. Pp. 127.

New Hobbycraft Book, The, Willard and Elma
Waltner. Lantern Press, 257 Park Ave. S., New
York 10010. Pp. 144. $4.95.

Papercraft Tricks, Games, and Puzzles, Walter B.
Gibson. Frederick Fell, 386 Park Ave., New York
10016. Pp. 125. $3.95.

Party Games, Mary E. Moyes. Sportshelf, P.O. Box
634, New Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 80. $1.50.

Pastimes with String and Paper, William R. Ran-
som. Christopher Publ. House, 1140 Columbus
Ave., Boston 20. Pp. 150. $3.00.

Peter Pauper’s Puzzles and Posers. Peter Pauper
Press, Mt. Vernon, N.Y. Pp. 62. $1.00.

Poems for Pleasure, Herman M. Ward, Editor. Hill
and Wang, 141 5th Ave., New York 10010.
Pp. 137. Paper, $1.50.

Reinhold Craft and Hobby Book, Gunther Vaas.
Reinhold Publ., 430 Park Ave., New York
10022. Pp. 360. $8.95.

Second Adler Book of Puzzles and Riddles, The,
Peggy Adler. John Day, 62 W. 45th St., New
York 10036. Pp. 47. $2.50.

Short History of Chess, A, H. J. R. Murray. Oxford
Univ. Press, 417 5th Ave., New York 10016.
Pp. 138. $2.90.

Skip Rope Book, The, Francelia Butler, Dial Press,
$161 Park Ave. 5., New York 10016. Unpaged,
.95.

Small Motors You Can Make, John Michel. D.
Van Nostrand, 120 Alexander St., Princeton,
NJ. Pp. 89. $3.00.

Stamp Collecting for Fun and Profit (rev. ed.),
Charles Skilton, Arco Publ., 480 Lexington Ave.,
New York 10017. Pp. 190. Paper, $1.45.

Wood Laminating, J. Hugh Capron. McKnight C1
McKnight, US Rte. 66 at Towanda Ave., Bloom-
ington, Ill. Pp. 94. $6.00. '

REFERENCE BOOKS

Anthrology A-Z, Carleton S. Coon and Edward E.
Hunt, Jr. Grasset C7 Dunlap, 1107 Broadway,
New York 10010. Pp. 277. Paper, $2.50.

Educators Guide to Free Films. Educators Progress
Service, Randolph, Wis. Pp. 661. Paper, $9.00.

Educators Guide to Free Filmstrips. Educators
Progress Service, Randolph, Wis. Pp. 159. Pa-
per, $6.00.

Educators Guide to Free Guidance Materials, (2nd
ed., 1963), compiled and edited by Mary Hork-

heimer Saterstrom and Joe E. Steph. Educators
Progress Service, Randolph, Wisconsin. Pp. 223.
Paper, $6.50.

Educators Guide to Free Tapes, Scripts, and Tron-
scriptions. Educators Progress Service, Ran-
dolph, Wis. Pp. 177. Paper, $5.75.

Encyclopedia of Child Care and Guidance, The,
(rev. ed.), Sidonie Matsner Gruenberg, Editor.
Doubleday, 575 Madison Ave., New York 10022.
Pp. 1016. $7.50.

History of Chess, A, H.J.R. Murray. Oxford Uhiv.
Erle6ss8,0417 5th Ave., New York 10016. Pp. 900.

Life Pictorial Atlas of the World. Rand McNaIly,
 0F(’)ark Ave., New York 10022. Pp. 600.

Music A-Z, Jack Sacher, Editor. Grasset C-r Dunlap,
1107 Broadway, New York 10010. Pp. 432.
Paper, $2.50.

Philosophy A-Z, James Gutmann, Ph. D., Editor.
Grasset C7 Dunlap, 1107 Broadway, New York
10010. Pp. 343. Paper, $2.50.

Woman's World, Alleyne M. Jukes, Editor. Sport-
shelf, P.O. Box 634, New Rochelle, N. Y. Pp.
608. $39.50.

SPORTS, PHYSICAL EDUCATION

Introduction to Yachting, An, L. Francis Herre-
shoff. Sheridan House, 257 Park Ave. 5., New
York. Pp. 189. $15.

Instructions in Ponymastership, Glenda Spooner.
Sportshelf, P.O. Box 634, New Rochelle, N. Y.
Pp. 192. $4.25.

Jumping. Sportshelf, P.O. Box 634, New Rochelle,
N. Y. Pp. 32. Paper, $1.00.

Man Against Musky, Howard Levy.
Publ., Harrisburg, Pa. Pp. 221. $5.95.

Medical Care of the Athlete, Allan J. Ryan, M.D.

McGraw-Hill, 330 W. 42nd St., New York 36.
Pp. 343. $9.75.

Midget Motoring and Karting, Kenton McFarland
and James C. Sparks, Jr. E. P. Dutton, 300 Park
Ave. S., New York 10. Pp. 159. $3.50.

Netball, Mollie Dawson. Sportshelf, P.O. Box 634,
New Rochelle, N. Y. Pp. 93. $3.50.

Oxford Pocket Book of Sculling Training, The,
Richard Burnell. Oxford Univ. Press, 417 5th
Ave., New York 16. Pp. 123. Paper, $1.40.

Young Sportsman's Guide to: Ice Skating, Michael
Kirby; Sports Car Racing, Harvey B. Jones; Bas-
ketball, George A. Cella; Ice Hockey, Jack Riley.
Thomas Nelson, 18 E. 4lst St., New York 17.
Pp. 96 each. $2.50 each.

Stackpole

UNITED STATES: TRAVEL and DESCRIPTION

Alaska. Lane Books, Menlo Park, Calif. Pp. 79.
Paper, $1.75.

Beautiful California. Lane Book Company, Menlo
Park, Calif. Pp. 319. $10.75.

Cook’s Tour of San Francisco, A, Doris Muscatine.
Charles Scribner's, 595 5th Ave., New York 17.
Pp. 370. $7.50.

Cue's New York, Emory Lewis. Duell, Slaan and
geaéce, 60 E. 42nd St., New York 17. Pp. 306.
4. 5.

Facts and Figures of the American West. Sport-
shelf, P.O. Box 634, New Rochelle, N.Y., Pp. 64.
Paper, $.75.

 

MAGAZINE ARTICLES

 

CHILDREN,* December 1963

Halfway Houses for Delinquent Youth, Kenneth
S. Carpenter.

Facts and Myths About Rural Youth, Kathryn
Close.

NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC, November 1963
The Parks in Your Backyard, Conrad L. Wirth.
, December 1963

YWCA: International Success
French Rockefeller.

THE OPTIMIST MAGAZINE, December 1963

Christmas Foods, Facts, Fun, Frank L. Reming-
ton.
The Hosting Program, Julian Bartolini.

A Bus for a Boys’ Club.

SAFETY EDUCATION, January 1964

Bright Ideas for Bulletin Boards, Wayne B.
Brumbach.

That Nice Safe Office. .

Patrols Go Camping, Lois Collins and Marjorie
Hawkins.

Do Your Pupils Believe These Dangerous Myths?
Joyce de Cicco.

 

Story, Mary

 

'1‘ Published six times annually by Children’s Bu-
reau, U.S. Department of Health, Education and
Welfare, Washington, D.C. 20201 . $.25 per copy, '
$1.25 annually. I

RECREATION

gaudy
flaw/15* '

n every field of human endeavor, he that is
I first must perpetually live in the white light
of publicity. Whether the leadership be vested
in a man or in a manufactured product, emula-

tion and envy are ever at work.

In art, in literature, in music, in industry, the
reward and the punishment are always the same.
The reward is widespread recognition; the pun-

ishment, fierce denial and detraction.

When a man’s work becomes a standard for
the whole world, it also becomes a target for the
shafts of the envious few. If his work be merely
mediocre, he will be left severely alone—if he
achieve a masterpiece, it will set a million
tongues a-wagging.

Jealousy does not protrude its forked tongue
at the artist who produces a commonplace paint-
ing. Whatsoever you write, or paint, or play, or
sing, or build, no one will strive to surpass or to
slander you, unless your work be stamped with
the seal of genius. Long, long after a great work
or a good work has been done, those who are
disappointed or envious continue to cry out that
it cannot be done. Spiteful little voices in the
domain of art were raised against our own Whis-

tler as a mountebank, long after the big world

had acclaimed him its greatest artistic genius.

Multitudes flocked to Bayreuth to worship at
the musical shrine of Wagner, while the little
group of those whom he had dethroned and re-
placed argued angrily that he was no musician
at all. The little world continued to protest that
Fulton could never build a steamboat, while the
big world flocked to the river banks to see his
boat stream by. The leader is assailed because he
is a leader, and the effort to equal him is merely
added proof of that leadership. Failing to equal
or to excel, the follower seeks to depreciate and
to destroy—but only confirms once more the su-

periority of that which he strives to supplant.

There is nothing new in this. It is as old as
the world and as old as the human passions——
envy, fear, greed, ambition, and the desire to
surpass. And it all avails nothing. If the leader
truly leads, he remains—the leader. Master-poet,
master-painter, master-workman, each in his turn
is assailed, and each holds his laurels through
the ages. That which is good or great makes it-
self known, no matter how loud the clamor of

denial. That which deserves to live—lives.

S mind
Standard of the War/d in the Coin-Operated Locker Fie/d
LOUDONV/LLE, OHIO

With apologies to Cadillac Motor Car Division

ADVERTISEMENT

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

How you and Uncle Sam can help

guarantee their future

The bigger your family,
the more important it is
that you establish a regular
savings plan for education
costs, weddings, clothing,
camp, and the host of other
things it takes to give kids

a comfortable start.  " "  ; r ‘ twig; f m   E , ‘
. . l ' «iii-is}, 3’57?“ ‘ twelq"; f '_ ' n i .
But w1th the way thmgs - . .:  ., eiv.g_:§i§g§k¢£dé :13,   _:___g
. i ‘ I  I. .7 "2113:, -  hwy". it: '1'  h  -’ f
are today, IS money all they ,  ._  _  J .-  ._   H  . ,1

need for a secure future?
The answer to that ques-
tion is why millions of
American families own
Savings Bonds today.
Their Bond dollars help
keep our economy sound,

and help Uncle Sam keep C th . f d QY ,t h f d t ice but
. r e m a an r ,
the future free SO that your an money assure e1r ree om ou can uy e 0 y p

you can help preserve it by buying and holding U.S. Savings Bonds.

 

youngsters will have the
same opportunities you
had.

Add your strength to
America today. Ask your
banker about a regular ‘ 1 .    my,
Savings Bond purchase A " i '
plan. Or buy them on the ‘ ' ' _

Payroll Savings Plan where Nice to hold. Because Savings Bonds

you work —the easiest way grow 33% % bigger at maturity, most

. th 1d k Americans hold them for long-range
“1 e WOr to ma 9 your goals. But you can cash in your Bonds

   

future more secure. anytime you need the money.

Five personal benefits you get from U.S. Savings Bonds: This man has no regard for in-
1. Your investment is guaranteed safe by the US. Government 0 dlv‘dualt frgf’doifl' Bari 0f 
2. Your Bonds are replaced free if anything happens to them - 3. You answer 0 1m leg 1 eep g

financially strong as individuals

can get your money whenever you need it - 4. You can save auto- .
' ——and as a natlon.

matically where you work - 5. You get $4 back for every $3 when
your Bonds mature.

Keep freedom in your future with W

U. S. SAVINGS BONDS . U 

This advertising is donated by The Advertising Council and this magazine.

