 

 

Clearwater Shuffleboard Club, Clearwater, Florida. Armco Canopies offer sun and weather protection; Armco
Building supplies storage and clubhouse facilities. Dealer: Mathews Development Corporation, Tampa, Florida.

 

Clearwater Lawn Bowling Club, Clearwater, Florida. Armco Building in background provides lounge
and meeting facilities for members. Dealer: Mathews Development Corporation, Tampa, Florida.

For all kinds of recreational facilities

Get quality, color and economy in an Armco Building

For sports of all sorts, an Armco Steel Building is
the smart answer—considering space needs, func-

tional design, minimum maintenance, and attractive
appearance.

The unique interlocking STEELOX® Panel—the
key difference between Armco Steel Buildings and
other structures—is equally efficient for a large
bowling lane facility or a distinctive protective

(_)

canopy for Shuffleboard courts.

Self-framing STEELOX Wall Panels can be
quickly erected by a small crew. They are available
in a selection of baked-on colors.

Ask us for more details on Armco Buildings for
recreational facilities. Metal Products Division, Armco

Steel Corporation, Department M-1194, P. O. Box 800.
Middletown, Ohio 45042.

ARMCO Metal Products Division

V

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

   

More FUN, More ACTION, More GAMES

Better equipment means better instruction, better practice, better games.
Here’s quality equipment that adds extra action, extra fun for everyone. Rugged
all-weather units are built for heavy-duty use and abuse—guaranteed to give
trouble-free service for years.

    
   
   
   
        

  
    
     

  
   
  

 

 
       
      
    
 
   
   
   
   
 
    

 
  
    

      

::EE'===:::::S.": awn“,
 READY-NET
  sets up in 60 seconds.
"' "5“;53‘ We; Rugged two-post net frame
' if  is instantly adjustable
Léaf-‘gggi for regulation volleyball,

      

tennis or badminton.
Lightweight, portable,
free-standing—

does not require

floor fastenings,
tie-backs or cables.
30' frame $118;
Special 3-game

nylon net $39.

I

BALL-BUY

automatically serves
720 balls an hour—
enough fun

and practice

for everyone.
Pinpoint accuracy:
delivers lobs,
drives or

drop shots—

at any speed

to any spot

on the court.
Controlled by

foot switch.
Rugged steel
construction.

$395.

ADVHFDDV dO'H/GG 01 ADVUDDDV 380

MC

‘—-.
up...—

 
   

RE-BUUND-NET

puts tennis fun
everywhere
—-indoors or out—
on any level area

as small as 12’ x 15’.
‘must’ for rainy days.
Nylon net duplicates
actual game play:
soaks up time,
allows get-ready pause.
For beginners or
advanced players.

10’ net $125; 20' net $195.

.0

 

r--------------------‘

I  c0-.INc. 0 27-2 MILBURN DR.,BRONXVILLE, N..Y. 0 com; 914.95 7,0047

All Ball-Boy products are fully guaranteed. They are available only BALL-BOY Check or Money I
by direct purchase from the company. maChlne order Enclosed

I RE-BOUND-NET I
I  NAME WHILE 10' or 20' size (1 Please bin us
SCHOOL DR COMPANY _______________ READY-NET I
. 30' or 40' size D Send 0-0-0-
I STREET_________________________________ I
E Special Nylon Net D Send only

CITY_________________.____.. STATE for READY-NET information
--------------------

APRIL: 1964‘ When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 155

APRIL 1964

RECREATION

 

 

 

 

 

VOL Hill NC .4 PRICE 60c
THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT

GENERAL

Tomorrow’s Guardians (Editorial) . . . . . . . . . George B. Hartzog, Jr. 165
Are we educating our children to protect their natural heritage?

Two to One in Miami Beach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . lack Woody 167
Congress city plans recreation for year-round residents and vacationers

Wanted: New Ideas for City Playgrounds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 180
Playground designs to jolt us out of the rat 0 f tradition

Prize Winners in Playground Essay Contest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 198
College students evaluate their summer experience

PROGRAM

A Summer of Surprises . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Louise Sims W ulf 168
Playground program in Anchorage, Alaska, planned with a daily fillip

Making History on the Playgrounds . . . . . . . . . . . . Don N. Anderson 172
lanesville, Wisconsin, pageant turns back clock and peers at future

With a Hop, Skip, and Jump . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 175
Games and stunts to add program zip

ADMINISTRATION

Ready, Willing . . . and Able . . . . . . . . . Joseph Carter, Alfred Elliott 178
How to train part-time and temporary personnel

To Better Advantage . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ed Johnson, William J. Pacifico, 188

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . David L. Dugan, George Kormos
New ways of extending playground and recreation service

Research Briefs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 193
Tort liability for public park and recreation services

The Park and Recreation Administrator . . . . . . . . Garrett C. Epply 194
What are the qualities of leadership needed for today’s world?

Take Me to Your Leader! . . . . . . Ernest Drapela, James A. Peterson 196

Dress plays a vital role in the image we project

DIGEST

 

Make Your Own Safety Slidesllow . . . . . . . . . . . . Robert L. Meyer 200

Use your playground as the setting for an accident-prevention script

MONTHLY

Editorially Speaking 158 Letters 160
Pe0ple in the Recreation News 162 As We Go To Press 163
Reporter’s Notebook 187 Arts and Crafts Corner 199 Market News 202
Resource Guide 203 Rx for the Ill and Handicapped 206
New Publications 209

 

 

RECREATION is published monthly except July and August by the National Recreation Association,
a service organization supported by voluntary contributions. at 8 West Eighth Street. New York 11.
New York. is on file in pubilc libraries and is indexed in the Readers' Guide. Subscription $5.00 a
year. Canadian and foreign subscription rate $5.75. Re-entered as second-class matter April 25,
1950. at the Post Office in New York, New York. under Act of March 3. 1879. Acceptance for mailing
at special rate of postage provided for in Section 1103. Act of October 3, 1917. authorized May 1.
1924. Microfilms of current Issues available from University Microfilms. 313 N. First Street. Ann
Arbor. Michigan.

   
 

DUCATIONAL The articles herein printed are Copyright. 1964 by the .m.
R E 5 5 the expression of the writers and National Recreation Association. :®'
5 5 0c I AT] 0" not a statement of policy of the '"CO'poratEd '; _ "

or . , I _ o .
A M an I CA National Recreation Association.

Printed in the U.S.A. "'"'

 

Editor in Chief
JOSEPH PRENDERGAST

Editor
DOROTHY DONALDSON

Assistant Editor
V ELVIRA DELANY

Associate Editor for Program
VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

Business Manager
FRANK ROWE

Advertising Manager
ESTA GLUCK
W

On the Cover

Space-age children still delight in
playing cowboys and Indians. This
log structure in the tot play area
on the playground in George E.
Weekes, Jr. Memorial Park in Hay-
wood, California, appeals to their
pioneer play acting. Turfing was
under development when this was
taken.

Next Month

May is Senior Citizens Month and
the May issue of RECREATION will
carry an emphasis on recreation for
this age group. An editorial by
Margaret Mead, the noted anthro-
pologist, on “Aging Differently in
the Space Age,” is an exciting treat-
ment of the subject, pointing out
facts too often overlooked in our
planning for this age group for the
present and the future. Other arti—
cles dealing with senior citizens in-
clude discussion of the training of
volunteer leaders for this group,
creative programs, plans for Senior
Citizen Sunday, and new table
games. A series on “Modern Build-
ings in Recreation” kicks off with
pictures and descriptions of the new
patient recreation center in the
Menninger Clinic in Topeka; while
“Fun and Fitness” is the first in a
series on promoting physical fitness
in the recreation program. “Build-
ing for Church Recreation” tells of
new church recreation centers in
the South.

Photo Credits

Page 162, A. L. Grove, West Or.
ange, New Jersey; 167, Miami
Beach News Bureau; 168, Anchor-
age, Alaska, Times; 172-4, Ray
Sivesend; 177, Andy Bilimovich,
Faribault, Minnesota (National
High School Photographic Awards
winner); 179, (Belisle) Andre La-
rose; 187, Carl J. Perina, Irving-
ton, New Jersey; 191, Northern In-
formation Service, Sudbury, On-
tario; 188, Bus Howdyshell, Pen-

dleton, Oregon.

RECREATION

WRITE for YOUR FREE COPY
of the Story of INDOOR HOCKEY

“One of the finest innovations
developed for physical education I”

A. D. LEIBERT. DIRECTOR
PHY. ED. AND ATHLETICS

New Help for Your Old Problem
of Vigorous Activity for Everyone

“Hundreds of boys from elementary and Junior High levels
participated." uStudents arrived at the school even before the
buses to participate.” “Keen interest for this new sport!” “Af—
fords many students opportunity for vigorous activity in a short
time.” “A 7 team league was playing the game before school
started in the morning." “Prefer it to basketball when they can
not play outside.” “The kids are crazy about the game.”

 

THOMAS HARTER' DIRECTOR u.Iunior High girls have shown much enthusiasm." “Gives defi-
Dept. of Civic Recreation, Battle Creek, Michi- mte advantages to the smaller students who can not make the
gan, instructs 2 beginners in the techniques teams in other Sports.”

of play for Indoor Hockey, in the_highly suc-
cessful Battle Creek League he initiated.

OPENS A NEW FIELD
of Intra-Mural Athletics
and Physical Education

Mr. Harter writes us, after 2 years of experience,
that Indoor Hockey provides “Roughly, twice the
action of basketball.” Yet the smaller boy or girl
can readily become highly proficient Size or height
can not dominate; a 100 lb. boy beat a 6 ft. varsity
basketball player for All-Star center in the Battle
Creek league. A large part of all students can
and do participate enthusiastically.

$30 to $35 Equips a League

Cosom's tough, safe Polyethylene Indoor Hockey
equipment precludes any need of protective equip-
ment. It lasts and lasts.

 

ABOVE: Indoor Hockey at the YMCA in Raleigh, North
Carolina; a very successful and popular sport.

.x’gx

AT RIGHT: Boys at summer camp in Maine prefer Indoor
Hockey to other sports when weather prevents outdoor play.
Indoor Hockey has proved attractive to and very effective for
all ages from 8 to 18.

4 pant“: t‘
.. a

0!

Write Today for FREE Copies of Rules of Indoor Hockey and
Tom Harter’s Story of Building a Successful League.

0 S O M SEE YOUR SCHOOL SUPPLY DEALER
OR WRITE US FOR FULL INFORMATION

0 R P O R A T I O N 6030  BLVD.. MINNEAPOLIS 16.MINN. ’

 

APRIL: 1964 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 157

EDITORIALLY

SPEAKING

 

LEST WE FORGET

66R EADING is one of the true pleas-

ures of life. In our age of mass
culture, when so much that we encoun-
ter is abridged, adapted, adulterated,
shredded and boiled down, and com-
mercialism’s loudspeakers are inces-
santly braying, it is mind-easing and
mind-inspiring to sit down privately
with a congenial book.”

I came upon this quotation the other
day in one of those excellent monthly let-
ters from the Royal Bank of Canada, this
one on “Adventuring into Old Books.”
It fitted into contemplation of National
Library Week, April 12-18, and made
me want to remind everyone, especially
recreation leaders who are helping oth-
ers to enrich their recreation experi-
ences, that reading for pleasure is one
of the most delightful, rewarding, quiet
recreations there is. Sometimes, in the
Welter of today’s activities—*engage-
ments, responsibilities, other competi-
tion for our attention, and participation
—we forget this.

Unfortunately, there are business-
men, and recreators themselves, who
say that life is so busy there is no time
for reading. This, of course, is sheer
nonsense! There is always time for the
things we truly enjoy, and if there isn’t,
we can make it—even if we have to ar-
range a date with ourselves and turn
down an occasional invitation. If worse
comes to worse, fifteen or twenty min-
utes before one settles down for the
night, no matter what the time, will not

Dorothy Donaldson

be seriously missed from sleep and will
be productive of that mental food which
refreshes the spirit and maintains the
intellectual side of life.

The bank’s letter goes on, “Our ap-
proach to books can be influenced by
this undoubted truth: books are the sole
means of communication with great
minds of the past, and the only means
most of us have to commune with the
first-rate minds of our own day. In our
books are recorded all the thoughts,
feelings, passions, visions, and dreams
that have stirred the human mind.” Do
we have time for these?

Remind your groups of this and
share with them this avenue to richer
living. Send them adventuring in the
local library (one of the local agencies
with which you should be cooperating),
call upon the help of the library to
strengthen program, and do your part,
as a community agency, in observing

National Library Week, April 12-18.

“A LITTLE GREEN SPACE”

STRETCHING its wheelbase, spreading
its track, strapping its concrete
bands across the land, the encroaching
automobile inches humanity back and
back—sheering OH a landmark for a
thruway, gobbling up a park for a park-
ing garage, turning field and forest into
filling station and sh0pping center. But
pockets of resistance are beginning to
develop. The latest turned up in that
cradle of American resistance—Boston.
The pr0posal had seemed innocent

 

   

‘3

   

  

8259 Livcmois

ée mm W W W?
' eCUMPLETE SERVICE for PIC

Organized and supplied better
. . . for less!

Send for

0 Company 0 lodge complete
0 Church 0 Union plcmc

O Other MANUAL

ORGANIZATION SERVICES, Inc.

  
  

s

    

   

 
     
       
  
 

only $1

    
   
 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

enough: simply to build some passes
under or over Memorial Drive on the
Cambridge side of the Charles River
so that trafEc could move along at the
same quick clip as on 'the well-under-
passed Storrow Drive on the Boston
side. . . .

In a chain reaction, neighborhood
groups, civic associations, and PTA’s
began exploring—among them a Citi-
zens’ Advisory Committee for Cam-
bridge, including Harvard President
Nathan M. Pusey, Radcliti‘e President
Mary I. Bunting, MIT Chairman James
R. Killian, Jr. Public relations wizard
Edward L. Bernays [a member of the
National Recreation Association Board
of’I'Trustees] became so fired with the

,..,;,,(;5use that he set up an Emergency Com-

mittee for the Preservation of Memorial
Drive. Said Mr. Bernays: “This is a
broad action to serve the public interest.
The feeling of personal bereavement is
terrific.”

Some four hundred aroused citizens
turned up at Boston’s State House one
morning in March to protest the project
before the Committee on Metropolitan
Affairs. Lawyer James Barr Ames of
the Citizens’ Advisory Committee sum-
med up the situation: “The real story is
people rising up to preserve a little
green space against the depredation of
the automobile. Some state agencies
are under so much pressure to develop
highways that they find it ditIicult to
remember the parks. We hope this will
stiffen them into resisting the automo-
bile, and preserving the amenities.”—

Time, February 14, 1964.

WHAT BETTER USE
FOR GRASS?

Not long ago, a letter appeared in
the Seattle Times, from which the fol-
lowing quotes were excepted:

“As taxpayers we are asked to buy
more land for parks. As a voter, I al-
ways vote for parks and schools.

“Several years ago we bought a home
mainly because of the line nearby park
our boy would have to play in. After
we were settled, we felt we were eSpe-
cially fortunate as we had not only the
park, but a public-grade-school play-
ground on another side and a large
parochial-school playground on a third.

“Now our son is in his early teens
and young citizens his age love to play

RECREATION

 

football, baseball, and basketball. Park

employes won’t permit them to play in
the park as they might hurt the grass.
They are told the grade-school play-
ground is for little children and the
parochial-school grounds are not public
playgrounds. Our street is cluttered
with automobiles, both parked and mov-
ing. Besides, it is difficult to tackle a

boy umping across a curb.

“We read of deplorable physical con-
dition of American youths . . . of hide-
ous teenage problems . . riots staged
by young people. While all this goes on,
we, as taxpayers, pay the gardeners to

cut the park grass and kick the kids off.

“Personally, I see no need for six
hundred-acre parks in our city or coun-
ty. But I certainly can see the need for
six hundredone-acre or two-acre play-
grounds scattered throughout our city.
It is constant1 use of muscles that builds
bodies, not the weekend tripltqo the play-
ground. It is the nearby convenient
playground that means something to the
kids, not the faroff state or county

park.”

 
 

APRIL, 1964

Lt 

PARKS, PLAYGROUNDS 6r RECREATION AREAS

A “Buck ’n Bounce” Playground is the easiest, least expensive way to attract and entertain kids—
for hours on end! Any 'combination of these delightful, colorful, Bouncy Animals, Jet-Away
Swings, Roto-Tots and Circus-Go-Rounds is possible in a comparatively small area. All are rugged,
safe, self-propelled: need no attendant—no maintenance. Every piece of equipment has been
child-tested for extended periods and been proven to attract children for hours on end—day after
day. “Buck ’n Bounce” Playground equipment combines healthful activity with enduring pleasure,
which assures you of increasing attendance and the full cooperation and approval of all parents.

BUCK ’n BOUNCE PRODUCTS by Fun In The Sun of Florida, Inc.

THE PUBLIC
WANTS TO KNOW

The following excellent statement

from the July-August 1958 issue of Park
Practice Grist, the bulletin issued by the
National Conference of State Parks is
still pertinent:

“Not everybody goes to a park for the
same reason. Indeed, there may be
nearly as many personal reasons for
visiting a park as there are visitors. But

there is one thing of which we may all
be quite certain: the people who visit
parks—for whatever reason—need a
great many services, not the least of
which is accurate, factual information.

“After a visitor passes through the
entrance gate, he’s likely to seek author-
itative answers to the thousand and one
questions which he and his brothers put
to park people every day. Although in-
formation is frequently dispensed at
visitor centers, museums, or other places
of visitor concentration, all park em-
ployes should be prepared to supply
reasonable information in a courteous
and straightforward manner.

“Everyone who reads these lines has
had, at one time or another when seek-
ing information at a depot, store, filling
station, or other public place, an unfor-
tunate ‘encounter’ with a careless or
openly discourteous individual. And
from that brief encounter, your entire
the establishment

opinion of was

formed. . . .

“Whathas this gotto do with you? Just
this—if a visitor’s car stops along the
road where you may be working, re-
member he’s not an annoyance—~he’s
the very reason for your having a job!
You need him more than he needs you,
so take good care of him. Give him all
the right answers, if you have them. If
you don’t know, be man enough to tell
him so, and direct him to where he can
get them. Don’t try to bluff him. . . .

“Remember, you could be the only
contact a visitor will have with your
organization. You are its representative
for the moment. A lot can depend upon
your behavior—so make the most of it
and reap the rewards of good public
relations.”

(I.

 

WITH A LOW COST

’TI BOUNCE"PI_AYGR0“““

ESPECIALLY DESIGNED FOR

(Subsidiary of PROGRESSIVE ENGINEERING INC., ROCKLAND, MASS.)

824 N.W. 9th Avenue, Fort Lauderdale, Florida

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

Telephone: 522-3476

159

LETTERS

 

Future Plans

The following excerpts from letters
received from two veteran recreation
leaders who recently “retired” from
“active” service prove they are not on
the “inactive” list!

Sirs:

“The time has come,” the walrus
said, for my retirement from the [Ver-
mont] State Recreation Service. Little
did I think that when I began my serv-
ices as a volunteer that I would be
“under the Golden Dome” for twenty
years.

These have been exciting years. It
has been a privilege to have been a
pioneer in state recreation service.

Recreation has assumed new and
great proportions these days and the
opportunities and obligations are al-
most innumerable. What challenges lie
ahead for all recreators!

I am not retiring as a recreator but
beginning a new chapter as a planning
consultant, continuing with a number
of national assignments.

THERESA S. BRUNGARDT, State of
Vermont Board of Recretation, M ont-
pelier.

I I C

I shall be teaching part time at the
local university; be a professional con-

sultant in parks, recreation, swim pools,
community centers, school-city rela-
tionships, and bond issue promotion;
and, if time permits, I shall write books
and magazine stories. In my spare
time (? ) , I want to play golf, fish, hunt,
photograph, play bridge, read!

TOM LANTZ, Town House 302, 117

North Tacoma Avenue, Tacoma,
Washington 98403.

Summing Up

When George Nesbitt retired recent-
ly after forty-seven years of service with
the National Recreation Association he
compiled the following eye-popping
“statistics” for his own amusement and
the edijication of his fellow workers:

Making due allowance for weekends,
holidays, vacation time, and sick leave,
I pared down the grand total of days
to a real hard-core figure representing
the number of days worked. This con-
servative figure showed that I had
served the NRA 11,628 full days. . . .
Then, recalling warmly that the Asso-
ciation had always been generous with
what we now call fringe benefits, I
added up the amount of vacation time
and holidays off that I had had through
the years. Believe it or not, this came to
fifty-nine months plus a few days. In
other words, I had gaigy’ accepted ap-

 

 

tbe action apparatus

TRI SWING

n swmos  *"
n WHIRLS

n SEE-SAWS
PLAYMATE

playground equipment

The DELMER F. HARRIS Co.

CONCORDIA, KANSAS

Write for free brochure Dept. it

Even it you are only THINKING at an arlilicial ice rink you should allend
The Ice Skating Institute of America

51er annual. Kongwtmoo.

MAY 12. 13. 14.

BISMARCK HOTEL

CHICAGO. ILLINOIS

Special Sessions for new and prospective rink operators

For details, write Secretary, 726 Ridge Road, Wilmette, Illinois

160

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

proximately live full years of vacation
and holiday time with pay!

Not quite satislied I looked a little
further. What about my commutation
expenditures, in time and money? I
had been a bachelor in the city the first
six and a half years, but, for more than
forty years now, I have been a com-
muter. For this period, my best estimate
was that I had contributed a total of
$11,150 to the railroads for transport-
ing me over the forty-mile round trip
between home and office. Of course, it
took time to get back and forth, too—
time that averaged around two and a
half hours a day and rolled up a total
of 27,777 hours. That is equivalent to
1,157 days of twenty-four hourseach,
or thirty-eight and a, half months, or
three years, two months, and lifteen
days of solid time on the trains! An-
other impressive figure was the distance
travelled. This totaled 444,320 miles.
Now that’s enough to take me all the
way to the moon and eighty-five percent
of the way back!

Then I went into the last stage of
statistical experimentation. . . . My col-
league, Don V. Joyce. who is taking
over my work, is a fine man and a
young one. I thought, with statistics, I
might even be able to help him with
some of his long-range personal plan-
ning. You see, if Don stays on as long
as I have stayed on, it is clear that his
own retirement date will be on Or about
Friday, April 1, 2011. Although it was
good to get that settled, I was concerned
with still one more factor; namely,
what about the fine young man who
will succeed Don on that beautiful
spring day in 2011 ? Let’s call him Sam.
Now, if Sam turns out to be as much
younger than Don, as Don is younger
than I, then a very important date for

Sam will be Thursday, April 1. 1971.
That day, still seven years ahead of us.

will be the date of his birth!

GEORGE A. NESBITT, 20 Burnside
Avenue, Upper Montclair, New Jer-

sey 07043. -
Wonderful Field

Sirs:

I have just linished reading the“ article
by Keith Briscoe concerning the re-
quirements for a college union director
today [February]. For the past year.
I have hoped that the National Recrea-
tion Association would publish an arti-
cle on the college union movement, and.
without a doubt. Mr. Briscoe’s article
was all I had looked for in every way.
He has covered a great deal of subject
matter in his article and I think it should
interest many people who read RECRE-

ATION Magazine to find out more about
this wonderful field qf,work.

JOHN H. YEEN, Director, LaSalle
College U nion, Philadelphia.

RECREATION

Fast pitch

or
Slow pitch

   

FLAG FOOTBALL BELT

The Finest Belt and Flag Set made
for playing many Running Tag Games

  
      

Since Flag Football and some thirty other run-
ning tag games are becoming so popular in to-
days Physical Fitness and Health Education
Programs. the RIP FLAG Belt and Flag Set is

more and more in demand.

THE BELT is made of I" wide heavy webbing
and is available in 3 sizes: SI M. and L. ’
THE BELT BUCKLE is a nickel-plated. double

D-ring safety buckle. adiustable for good fit.

THE FLAGS are made of strong. vinyl coat-
ed nylon material that will riot tear. soil or deter-

iorate. Are 2" wide by I8" long and come in 5
brilliant team colors: RedI BI.I YeI.I Gr.. Orange.

PATENT FLAG ATTACHMENT made of the
Amazing VELCRO Adhesive Material is abso-

lutely fool-proof and guaranteed for at least
I0.000 pulls per flag. The EASIEST to attach.

Write for FREE Brochure. and Special Quantity
Prices to Schools and Organizations. (Free game
bool: with orders of two dozen or more.)

Interested dealers write:

MASON CITY TENT 8: AWNING CO.
406 50. Federal Ave.l Mason City. Iowa

5040l
“(A

You’ll find _. _    

THINGS

 
     
      

HANNA MANUFAUURING COMPANY

   

AIHSNS, GEORGIA

    
   
    

Official Softball Bats

are player preferred.

 
   
   
   
 

Tape. cork or fiberglass
grips give non-slip swings.

 
       
    

NOWISTHETIME...

for all good men to come the aid of down-
trodden floors. delapldated swimming
pools. and flaccid flowers . . .

SEE: RESOURCE GUIDE. Page 203

    
    
   

 

 

Muscle. building fun‘s the
thing with Game-Time’s oll

, " new 16' long, 8’ high play-
I   A .'  grOUnd sensation. Kids can

 ,, ‘3‘...» i ” arm’s climb, slide, shinny and

r i  g .' 1-3;» balance on the Imogineered
m the I964  —-¢ .

  "Cotty".
 i6! _ Competitively priced for

' ‘ competitive ploy . . .
   W At only $228.00 . . {Rush
Just Off the Press! .M if  ' -‘ via

orders Now! .
- ' - r. wmre roe FREE CATALOG
$2.50 ($2.00 to NRA members) Kids love hrm! ;-

Prices F.0.B. litchfield, Mich.

Order from 9 T
._ ' H I & GAME- |ME,|Nc.
National Recreation ASSOCIatIOH Bisiqnesville Road Litchtield, Michigan
8 West 8th Street, New York IOOII Subsidiarr of Simpson Mfs- Company

 

Manufacturers of lmogineered Playground Equipment

APRILQlil‘964 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 161

PEOPLE

IN THE RECREATION I.

NEWS

C. C. (Pappy) Nixon retired in Feb-
ruary as director of parks and recrea-
tion in Newport News, Virginia, after
nearly twenty-three years of service to
the city. When Pappy started out to
build a recreation department in New-
port News, he had a budget of $6,000
for his first seven months and no recre-
ation buildings. This year his depart-
ment will oversee the spending of $248,-
006 and the operation of nine football
fields, eight parks, five recreation build-
ings, two swimming pools, two piers,
four launching ramps, eighteen summer
playgrounds, five winter playgrounds,
and forty-two baseball diamonds includ-
ing ten lighted fields. Pappy will be suc-
ceeded by Harry D. Knight, and suc-
ceedihg Mr. Knight as superintendent
of recreation is William F. Roady.

Earl B. Wells has been appointed
director of the Children’s Zoo for the
Fort Wayne, Indiana, Park Board. In
the newly created position, Mr. Wells
will be in charge of the entire Operation
of the new park facility, care of the
animals and exhibits, promotion, and
the business management of the zoo.
Previously, he had been with the Potter
Park Zoo in Lansing, Michigan, and the
Seneca Park Zoo in Rochester, New

York.

New York State Senator Jerome L.
Wilson received the first annual John
F. Kennedy Memorial Award for his
contribution to the progress and devel-
opment of the recreation movement in
New York City. The award was given
Senator Wilson by the New York City
Recreational Employees Local 299 for
his efforts in organizing citizen park
and recreation councils throughout
New York City. In a year’s time the
councils have helped secure a city-wide
program of playground surfacing and
other improvements. They have worked
to increase salaries of recreation em-
ployes of the park department and to
secure better working conditions. The
award, a bronze bust of the late presi-

162

dent embossed on a plaque, was pre-
sented by Arthur E. Todd, director of
field services for the National Recrea-
tion Association.

Dr. Reuben B. (Jack) Frost, di-
rector of the Division of Health, Physi-
cal Education and Recreation at Spring-
field College, Springfield, Massachu-
setts, has been named secretary of the
Intercollegiate Athletic Section of the
National Physical Education Associa-
tion. Dr. Frost, one of the most promi-
nent physical educators in the country,
holds many high oiiices in physical ed-
ucation associations. He is currently
vice-president and chairman of the Di-
vision of Men’s Athletics of the Ameri-
can Association for Health, Physical
Education, and Recreation. He served
as project director for the Peace Corps
training program conducted at Spring-
field College last summer.

 

 

On Farrell Field the children play. In
South Orange, New Jersey, Joseph
Farrell (right), superintendent of rec-
reation, has been honored for his forty
years of service to the community by
having a playground renamed in his
honor. Seen with Mr. Farrell at the
dedication ceremony is louis Kernan,
president of the Board of Recreation
Commissioners for South Orange.

 

IN MEMORIAM

 

o STEPHEN J. BALL, chairman of the
Sayre Borough, Pennsylvania, Recrea-
tion Commission since 1958, died re-
cently at the age of forty. He had also
been chairman of the youth activities
committee for the local Elks, a Boy
Scout leader, and a councihnan. He or-
ganized the Sayre Senior Citizens Club
in 1958 with nine members present at its
first meeting. The club now has 140
members.

0 HELEN CENTER, supervisor of San
Francisco’s municipal swimming pro-
gram, died in March as the result of an
automobile accident. Mrs. Center, who
joined the San Francisco Recreation
and Park Department in 1922, spear-
headed the city’s “learn-to-swim” pro-
gram, planning and supervising its
swimming pools.

o LUCIUS POND ORDWAY of Palm
Beach, Florida, died recently after a
short illness. He was a staunch sup-
porter of recreation both locally and
nationally. A contributor to the Na-
tional Recreation Association, he was
known locally as a strong booster of
baseball and was active in many com-
munity fund-raising activities.

0 W. J. DERWIN, sports editor of the
Waterbury, Connecticut, Republican,
died in February at the age of sixty-two.
Mr. Derwin had served with the Water-
bury City Park Department for forty
years and had been supervisor of rec-
reation there for nineteen years. He
was also a former president of the Con-
necticut Recreation Society.

0 RALPH V. HILL, long-time member
of the Euclid, Ohio, Recreation Com-
mission, died in February at the age
of sixty-eight. Mr. Hill, who served
as a member of the Euclid 'City Council
for sixteen years prior to 1959, was
known locally as “Mr. Recreation.” He
was honored by Euclid in 1955 for his
long service with the recreation com-
mission. Mr. Hill had been active in
athletics since he played halfback for
East Tech’s city championship football
team in 1915. During the 1930’s Mr.
Hill helped organize the Junior Amer-
ican League Baseball League in Euclid
and formed an Ice Hockey League
which was active during the 1920’s.

REGREATION

AS WE GO TO PRESS

 

} NEW BATTLE FOR SPACE. The first
major battle to save Madison Square in
New York City was fought in 1851,
over a proposal to erect a Crystal Palace
in the park as a monument to progress.
Leading citizens rose up in arms and
opposed the plan vigorously before the
Board of Aldermen. One spokesman for
the group, Chief Justice Jones, spoke
strenuously of the need for parks in a
great metropolis as “the lungs of the
city” and said that, because there were
so few parks, they were “doubly dear.”

“Every citizen has an interest in
them,” the judge argued, “and is ag-
grieved and injured by any act or oper-
ation which tends to deprive him of the
use and benefit of them, or to restrict
and diminish his enjoyment thereof. . .”
The irate citizens carried the day and
Madison Square survived to become
probably the most noteworthy neigh-
borhood park in New York City’s his-
tory.

Now a new battle looms, 113 years
later, as the city’s Department of Traffic
is considering a plan -to tear up Madison
Square, again in the name of progress,
this time in order to construct an under-
ground garage. Citizens ,are actively
marshalling their forces to oppose the
scheme. The Park Association has al-
ready adopted a resolution opposing
the plan. A special “Committee to Save
Madison Square” has been formed by
leading citizens of the area. Other civic
' groups are joining the fray.

The key issues are two: (1) it is con-
ceded that an underground garage will
destroy the old trees and historic quali-
ty of the park, and that the thin layer
of topsoil over any new garage cannot
ever sustain root systems for large trees
in the future; (2) the benefits hoped to
be gained from a parking facility in
the area are extremely dubious, as many
experts feel that a garage will increase
traffic problems and that the garage
plan is not based on any sound long-
range program for the area.

Few people could have foreseen the
irony of a much publicized event on
October 5, 1936, when the president of
the Fifth Avenue Association, with an
honor guard dressed in Colonial cos-
tume, planted an eighteen-foot oak tree
from the Virginia plantation of James
Madison in Madison Square to com-
memorate the centennial of the laying
out of Madison Avenue. In a complete
about-face the Fifth Avenue Association
itself is now leading the effort to tear
up the park.

} OUR JUNE 1964 issue will carry an
article written especially for RECREA-
TION by Stuart Constable, vice-president

APRIL, 1964

A MESSAGE
from

STAN MUSIAL

President Johnson’s new consult-
ant on physical fitness, Stan-Musical,
the former St. Louis Cardinal star,
began his new duties in March with
the following announcement:

HE [President’s] Council [on

Youth Fitness] will devote much
of its time and effort in the year
ahead to strengthening its working
relationships with governors, chief
state school officers, and state super-
visors of health, physical education,
and recreation. I hope to get to know
many of you better, and I am confi-
dent we can—by working together-—
establish physical activity programs
‘and healthful recreation as an essen-
tial part of both education and com-
munity life . . . The council’s chief
objective will remain the same: a
vigorous activity program for every
boy and girl . . . in the land. '

of operations for the New York World’s
Fair, and a well-known‘landscape archi-
tect and one-time NYC park designer,
on “Parks and Recreation at the
World’s Fair.” It will welcome park and
recreation people to the fair, and will
point out the things which will be of

particular interest. to them. Don’t miss
it!‘

} 'NEW YORK’s new center of attraction,
the Lincoln Center for the Performing
Arts, is officially the performing arts
wing of the New York World’s Fair,
in its beautiful new buildings on.Broad-
way. Completed to date are Philhar-
monic Hall and the new New York
State Theater. The center’s World’s
Fair Festival began March 15, in Phil-
harmonic Hall, with a special dramatic
reading of Shakespearean scenes, by
Dame Edith Evans, Sir John Gielgud,
and Margaret Leighton, and will last
through the fall of 1965. Tickets are
now on sale through an advance-sales
box office. Address for list of events
and tickets: Advance Sale Box Office,

Lincoln Center Plaza, Broadway at 65th
Street, New York 10023.

P A PREVIEW press tour of the just com-
pleted New York State Theater—the
second building of the Lincoln Center
for the Performing Arts—was held on

March 19, and reveals another beauti-
ful cultural facility of which the whole
country may well be proud. Designed
by Philip Johnson Associates, it is plan-
ned primarily for the presentation of
the dance, operetta, and musical come-
dy. Situated on the Center Plaza, it
gives an impresSion of space and graci-
ousness. Its spacious promenade, two
hundred-by-six hundred feet, and
walled on one side with windows open-
ing onto a balconygis for between-acts
strolling and visiting, as well as for
receptions and other state functions. On
the inside, the theater’s softly lighted
auditorium, in the shape of a horseshoe,
glows like a jewel and, with five bal-
conies encircling it, is slightly reminis-
cent of the famous “Diamond Horse-
shoe” of the old Metropolitan Opera
House in New York. (Watch for further
details about the theater’s structure and
unusual- features in future issues of
RECREATION.)‘ It will be'introduced to
the public with'a gala opening April 23,
during the World’s Fair Festival, and
on April 24, the New York City Ballet
will begin its Spring season there. This
theater will. also,play its part in observ-
ing the four hundredth anniversary of
Shakespeare’s birth, with a three-week
engagement of England’s Royal Shake-
speare Company, May 18 - June 7.

) A NEW COMMUNITY CENTER for New
Orleans, its first , in ten years, was
assured, when voters of the city passed
a bond issue in a March election. The
total amount to go to the New Orleans
Recreation Department is $373,000.
This includes $125,000 for _a communi-
ty youth center, $176,000 for renova-
tion and major repairs, and $71,400 for
equipment. The new center will replace
the old Delgado center which was con-

demned and torn down last year.

GIFTS

GIFTS AND BEQUESTS continue to
make major contributions to the
recreation scene, both in facilities and

cultural programs. Among recent do-
nations:

* Eight hundred acres on the south
shore of Sebec Lake given to the state
of Maine to be used as a state park.
Donor was Francis C. Peaks, 3 non-
agenarian of Dover-Foxcroft.

* A contribution of $493,000 to the
Somerset County, New Jersey, Park
Commission by tobacco heiress Doris
Duke to improve those portions of the
Raritan River and the Raritan Water
Power Canal that border Duke Island

Park. The park was developed on five
163

hundred acres of the Duke Estate pre-

sented to the county by Miss Duke in
1959.

* A million-dollar grant by the William
Hale Harkness Foundation to help es-
tablish and operate a new ballet com-
pany under choreographer George Ski-

bine. The company is eXpected to begin
rehearsals in Watch Hill, Rhode Island,

about June 1.

* A million-dollar trust fund left to the
Poetry Society of America by the late
Contessa Giovanni di Castagnola, the
former Alice Fay of Chicago.

* A $100,000 theater to be part of the
new recreation center in Waterloo,
Iowa. Given by Mrs. Faye Dorothy
Martin Anderson, it will be named the
Hope C. Martin Memorial Theater in
memory of her father, a prominent
Waterloo businessman. Mrs. Anderson

has already given Waterloo the Hope C.
Martin Memorial Park.

* A seventeen-acre tract in Greenwich,
Connecticut, given to the Byram River
Gorge Committee by Mr. and Mrs. Ber-
nard F. Gimbel. Acquisition of the
property represents the first step in the
committee’s program to insure preser-
vation of a two-and-a-half mile section
of the gorge.

* A 130-acre tract of marsh and wild-
life habitat near Guilford, Connecticut,
acquired by the National Audubon So-
ciety through donations of land and
with funds contributed by Madeline
Moses of Weston, Connecticut.

0 For more on gifts for recreation, see
“It’s a Gift,” Recreation, January 1964;
“Public Gifts” by Joseph Curtis, Feb-
ruary 1963; and "People in the News,”
February 1964, Page 52.——-Ed.

THINGS YOU SHOULD KNOW

 

) AVAILABLE FREE from NRA: A new
booklet, Military-Community Coopera-
tion through Recreation, prepared by
the National Recreation Association’s
National Advisory Committee on De-
fense Related Services, under the chair-
manship of Ralph C. Wilson, recreation
director in Arlington County, Virginia.

) PROGRAMS AND APPLICATION FORMS
for the National Recreation Associa-
tion’s Ninth Annual National Institute
in Recreation Administration are now
available. Theme for 1964: Community

Organization for Recreation. The insti-
tute will be held in Miami Beach, Flor-

ida, October 3-4, preceding the 46th
National Recreation Congress.

) RECONSIDERATION of the site of the
John F. Kennedy Center for the Per-
forming Arts (formerly the National

Cultural Center) in Washington, D.C.,
as suggested by the Fine Arts Commis-

164

sion, is receiving support from the
American Society of Landscape Archi-
tects, one of the thirteen organizations
represented on the Joint Committee on
the National Capital.

In a letter to Representative Michael
J. Kirwan of Ohio, the society’s execu-
tive director, Lynn M. F. Harriss,
pointed out that his group had publicly
voiced oppOsition to the site chosen for
the cultural center over two years ago
when plans for the $67,000,000 struc-
ture were first unveiled. “A building of
such magnitude and splendor,” wrote
Mr. Harriss, “should have the benefit of
a thorough study by the National Capi-
tal Planning Commission, the agency
created to do the site planning for the
District.

“In the present design,” Mr. Harriss’
letter said, “the building uses almost all
of the site, hardly a way to demonstrate
our cultural standard in the art of land
planning. The two vital considerations

COMING EVENTS

Governor’s Conference on Recreation,
April 14, Indiana State Board of Health,
Indianapolis. Write: Indiana Recreation
Council, 1330 West Michigan Street, In-
dianapolis 7.

19th Annual Conference of Girls’
Clubs of America, April 19-22, Hotel
Roosevelt, New York City. Write: Girls’
Clubs of America, Inc., 22 East 38th
Street, New York City.

Annual Convention National Congress
of Parents and Teachers, May 24-27,
Conrad Hilton Hotel, Chicago. Write:
Parents Teachers Association, 700 North
Rush Street, Chicago 60611.

National Golf Day, May 30. Sponsored
by the Professional Golfers’ Association
of America, Dunedin, Florida.

National Marbles Tournament, June
14-19, Ringer Stadium, Wildwood by Sea,
New Jersey. Sponsored by Veterans of
Foreign Wars. Consult your local chapter.

Fourth Leighton-Barta National Ten-
nis School for Teachers, Two sessions:

June 15-19 and June 21-25, State Uni-
versity College, Cortland, New York. Write
Judy Barta, 27 Mile Street, Bronx-
ville, New York.

102ml Annual Meeting, National Ed-
ucation Association, June 28-July 3, Se-

attle, Washington. Write: NEA, 1201
16th Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20036.

23rd Annual National Industrial Rec-
reation Association Conference and
Buying Show, May 16-19, Pick-Carter
Hotel, Cleveland, Ohio. For further infor-
mation, write NIRA, 203 North Wabash
Avenue, Chicago 60601.

Eastern COOperative Recreation
School, August 22-30, New York Univer-
sity Camp, Holmes, New York. Vacation
workshop for recreation and lay leaders.
For further information, write Frank

Spriggs, ECRS Business Manager, 27 Har-
rison Street, Poughkeepsie, New York.

National Convention, American Asso-
ciation of Rctired Persons, June 14-18,
Rochester, New York. For further informa-
tion, write AARP Executive OEces, Du-
pont Circle Building, 1346 Connecticut
Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20036.

 

yet unsolved are: (1) where will a cen-
ter for the perforating arts function
best, and (2) where will a center for
the performing arts be shown off best
aesthetically?”

) THE FIFTIETH ANNIVERSARY of the
Association ofICollege Unions, the in-
ternational organization of more than
five hundred campus centers, is being
celebrated throughout 1964. It was
founded at Ohio State University in
December 1914 during a meeting of
representatives from seven unions and
remains today as one of the oldest inter-
college educational organizations. The
theme of this golden anniversary year
is: The Last Fifty Yearsm—and the Next.
This theme will be emphasized during
the annual conference, April 19-22, at
the Indiana Memorial Union at Indiana
University. (For an article on staliing
college unions see “Man of Many Tal-

ents” by Keith G. Briscoe, RECREATION,
February 1964.)

) THE FIRST ISSUE ( March 1964, Vol. 1,
No. I) of the Volunteer’s Digest has
been published by the Volunteer Com-
munity Activities Clearinghouse, Inc.,
a nonprofit association formed to pro-
vide information on community activi-
ties of volunteer organizations through-
out the country. To be published quar-
terly, the new publication costs $5.00
annually. Oflices are at 5507 33rd
Street, NW. Washington, D.C. 20015.

) AN UNBEATABLE RECORD of no drown-
ings out of more than 5,467,000 bathers
using seven Los Angeles municipal
beaches in 1963 has been reported by
the City Recreation and Parks Depart-
ment Beach Lifeguard Division. Myron
F. Cox, chief beach lifeguard, also re-
ports that the number of 1963 bathers
is an increase of more than two million
over the 1962 figure. Out of the nearly
five and a half million bathers in 1963,

only 1,079 required rescuing.

) A CAMPING CRAZE of increasing mag-
nitude is sweeping across the United
States these days, reports The New York
Times of March 22 in a special Sunday
section on family camping. The Times
declares that“. . . the experts are having
more trouble trying to fathom the rea-
son behind it than they would in pitch-
ing a tent in a high wind. More than
eleven million Americans have heeded
the clarion call of the great outdoors to
date and their numbers are multiplying
yearly . . .

“One of the factors is that leisure
time is on the increase and with more
time on their hands, more people are
heeding the popular cry of _‘let’s go
camping.’ It is very much in the vogue
these days to camp outdoors“on week-
end and on vacation.”

RECREATION

EDITORIAL

TOMORROW’S

GUARDIANS

Are we educating our children to safeguard

their natural heritage?

George B. Hartzog, Jr.

T0 PERPETUATE our American way of

life, we need in this country, among
other things, a variety of public parks
and recreation areas ranging in kind
and location from remote wilderness to
highly deveIOped playgrounds near
densely populated areas—and “little
parks” within walking distance of chil-
dren’s homes. Parks—no matter how small or how large,
no matter whether they are national, state, or local—are
essential to our American way of life. They are part and
parcel of all those public institutions that, in combination,
contribute to a higher level of cultural achievement and the
sustenance of a higher standard of living.

 

The more complex our society becomes, the more im-
perative it is that all of man’s land uses be blended into a
harmonious entity. In our planning, there must be more
thinking and action in terms of a land complex that em-
braces all lands public and private, all political jurisdic-
tions and all agencies—each contributing to the common
good. There will have to be a balancing of all needs and
uses—not on an acreage basis but in terms of benefit to
the individual, the community and the nation.

Wealth of any kind must be safeguarded. T omorrow’s
guardians of our natural resources—0f our historic heritage
—of our scientific treasures are our children. Are we edu-
cating our young people to take over this trust———by instilling
in them at an early age a love and appreciation of nature, by

providing them with meaningful, real-life experience?
I am reminded of Edward Everett Hale who said: “The

 

MR. HARTZOG is director of the National Park Service. This

material is taken from a speech at the National Meeting of
the YMCA, Indian Guides National Longhouse, Benjamin
Franklin Hotel, Philadelphia, February 15, 1964.

APRIL, 1964

greatest help, after all, is to take children back to the garden
that the Lord God planted. A boy must learn to sleep under
the open sky and to tramp ten miles through the rain if he
wants to be strong. He must learn what sort of men it was
who made America.”

The National Park Service helps to make these experiences
possible. The national parks owe much of their unique charm
to the unusual opportunities they afford for observing an-
imals amid the intimacies of wild settings in which even
the observers feel themselves a part. The thrill of being in
the same meadow with an elk—no fence or bar between——
reaches everyone, young or old.

There is a wide range of opportunities for our children
in the national parks. Give them the experience of hearing
the screaming gulls and the tremendous roar of the surf.
Let them see and hear the scurry and scratch of a chipmunk
along the bark or the call of a jay or the flash of its blue in
the high mountain or the deep gorge. Let them warm them-
selves by a campfire.

Go with your son along a wilderness trail, where man is
only a visitor and nature is supreme.

Teach him to listen to the quiet of the deep forest, to iden-
tify the warning splash of the beaver. Teach him the In-
dians’ love of beauty and color, and their knowledge and love
of the out-of-doors with wildlife.

Climb with him to a hilltop where he can feel both small
in the universe and great within his soul. For your own re-
ward, watch him as he reaches the highest point and breathes
deeply—intoxicated by the heights he has scaled .under his
own power—king of all he surveys but still conscious of you,
his dad, securely by his side.

The priceless ingredient in every growing boy’s life is
that personal interest that a father takes in his son, in put-
ting to proper perspective the values so essential to the pres-
ervation of our way of life. if:

165

Macmillan Books for Study and Reference

RECREATION
AND THE SCHOOLS

by Richard G. Kraus, Teachers College, Columbia University

Thoroughly detailed, this book is concerned with the in-
creased importance of leisure time in the United States and the
Western world. The author specifically addresses himself to
the problem of whether the local public schools adequately
sponsor or co-sponsor community recreation programs. After
analyzing a large number of such programs, he has found many
to be effeCtive in providing leisure activities while others are
only half successful. This book, the first to examine thoroughly
and critically the history and current rationale for leisure edu-
cation, is divided into three major sections that cover the prob-
lems of leisure and recreation in modern society, the process
of leisure education, and the role of the public schools in pro-
viding or assisting in recreation sponsorship. Although the
responsibility of schools for community recreation is a hotly
controversial issue, Dr. Kraus has managed to treat it in an
unbiased manner. Both sides of this issue and the facts support-
ing them are substantially revealed. Aimed at a problem that
has existed for over fifty years, this book gives a nationwide
survey of praCtices, needs, and guides in a manner that is ex-
tremely helpful to all professionals concerned with problems of
leisure either in recreation or education. 1964, 320 pager, $5 .00

FOLK DANCING: A Guide for
Schools, Colleges, and Recreation Groups

by Richard G. Kraus

This complete handbook contains detailed, accurate, and easy-
to-follow descriptions of 110 popular and widely used folk
dances from the United States and 30 foreign countries.

"For the experienced teacher or dancer this would be a good
reference book to own. For the inexperienced it would be in-

valuable."—T/9e Plain Dealer 1962, 234 pager, $4.95

PHYSICAL EDUCATION, HEALTH
EDUCATION, AND RECREATION

by John Heisley Jenny, Wilmington (Delaware) Public
Schools

The outcome of many years' practical teaching experience,
this teXt presents a complete treatment of first-year requirements
for students professionally interested in physical, health, and
recreation education in relation to the needs of an overall edu-
Cational program. Discussion of the history and development
of physical education, health education, and recreation in the
United States precedes presentation Of professional requirements
and opportunities. I961, 336 pager, $5.50

MACMILLAN

165 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

RECREATION FOR THE
PHYSICALLY HANDICAPPED

by Janet Pomeroy, Director of Recreation Center for the
Handicapped, Inc., San Francisco, California

An increasing awareness Of the needs of the physically handi-
capped has fostered the development of greater health, educa-
tion, and welfare services for them. It is the purpose of this
book to show the vital need for adding recreation to this list of
services and to consider the ways in which recreation programs

for the handicapped can be organized. The information pro-
vided is intended to serve students enrolled in recreation courses,
public recreation and park departments, private or public health
and welfare agencies, and community organizations supporting
programs for the handicapped. Special emphasis on commu-
nity organized recreation activities helps to make this work
unique in its field. This book provides an exrensive review of
program aCtivities, such as music, drama, arts and crafts, games,
and sports, plus illustrations of their uses in recreation programs
for the handicapped. It discusses many proved methods for
adapting recreation aCtivities for persons with serious physical
disabilities. Particular emphasis is placed upon the desirability
of integrating recreation programs for the handicapped and the
non-handicapped whenever possible. 1964, 400 pager, $7.95

LEADERSHIP IN
RECREATIONAL SERVICE

by Jay S. Shivers, University "of Connecticut

Professor Jay S. Shivers has written this provocative study
to provide both students and in-service personnel with an over-
view of leadership processes and techniques in relation to rec-
reational service. It is his intention tO identify and examine the
phenomenon of leadership without reference to immediate sit-
uations or ideological context. Consequently, Leaderrbip in
Recreational Service establishes new guide lines for the deter-
mination of what leadership is, how it is created, and how it

can be improved. 1963, 522 pager, $6.95

PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION OF PARK
AND RECREATIONAL SERVICES

by George Hjelte and Jay S. Shivers

From fiscal policy to adminiStration, this book moves step
by Step through every aspeCt Of administrative technique and
praCtice of park and recreational services. Its approach uses
logic and sound data to supply concepts that will be of use to ad-
ministrators on the job every day. 1963, 367 pager, $7.50

60 Fifth Avenue, New York 10011

RECREATION

This air-conditioned oceanfront auditorium is one of
Miami Beach's community centers operated by the
recreation department. Activities include a service-
men's center, vaudeville, and many special events.

   

-‘ a
‘w‘.

,
 .4 9,
+‘U 5.

‘v < a

" . > 9

.A A ~ ,6 ~ .

(-
c

a 3"
-.

 

. a, Sing-a-longs know no season in Miami Beach. This

-' a group of senior citizens has gathered under the mid-

~-1

TWO To ONE
IN MIAMI BEACH

 winter sun for the ever-pOpular community sings
3*: that are held daily every afternoon and evening.

0

a

a)

The host city for the 46th National Recreation Congress, October 4-8,

provides recreation for twice as many vacationers as local residents

. Jack Woody

’ I lHE recreation

department in
a resort city must
supplyprograms
and facilities to
meet the needs of
local residents and
vacationers whose
sojourns may last a few days or a few
months. At the peak of the winter season
in February, Miami Beach is host to
visitors who outnumber its 65,000 full-
time residents two to one. The entertain-
ment of these vacationers is a vital part
of the municipality’s economy and the
importance of the recreation depart-

 

 

MR. WOODY is director of recreation in
Miami Beach, Florida.

APRIL, 1964

ment’s function is well recognized. Dur-
ing the last fiscal year attendance at
recreation department activities exceed-
ed two and a half million. The depart-
ment handled these functions with ap-
proximately lifty full-time employes and
fifty part-time workers.

Within the department’s operation
are four community centers, three ma-
jor recreation centers, eight play-
grounds, a public fishing pier, a service-
men’s center, and two swimming pools.
There also are three “friendship cor-
ners” maintained primarily as social
gathering spots for senior citizens, a
chess and checker club, and numerous
other specialized facilities.

Much of Miami Beach’s municipal
recreation is directed toward elderly

persons, as many are semi-permanent
residents partially or fully retired.
Friendship-corner activities are devoted
entirely to them, as are many of the
community center programs.

Miami Beach is fortunate in that,
despite the city’s having only eight
square miles of land area, early long-
term planning reserved reasonably ade-
quate parks and playgrounds. Flamingo
Park, the largest, contains thirty-three
acres, sixteen tennis courts, a swimming
pool, a youth activities building, volley-
ball, basketball and shuHieboard courts,
a softball diamond, and broad walk-
ways excellently landscaped by the
parks department. North Shore Park

has a ten-acre area, tennis center, com-

Continued on Page 205

167

The runaway favorite among the summer's ac-
tivities were string and paper tricks, an ab-
sorbing pastime. Many Anchorage children
now can do the most intricate of the tricks.

4.»
a

.   "
J' ' —II/:'.I
' ‘ 1A . _.

,
cl

a
n-
- ‘

 

3.. .' ‘ ".

Even old Alaskan residents find Eskimo danc-
ing a special treat! The children learned
reels, iogs, Japanese folk dances, and each
playground had a special dance all its own.

 

for the overnight campout for iunior leaders with fifteen hours Tramps never had it this good! These “me
of service. Even the recreation leaders asked for a repeat. "hobos" toast morshmauows during a cook-

out at Elderberry Park. And nobody was
scolded for looking dirty, messy, and mussed.

w... ., wars...”
:3: '1’ ‘w ~

 

The winner. Recreation assistant Chris Cutler
pins a ribbon on a dimpled participant. City-
wide contests were part of Proiect Marathon.

M - _' ,.,‘r
v

i “w. r.  :1:  ‘ — w I.
/ .  5-5 y - _
«f if” . ‘  s ,
._ ' a

'_ a  i‘

s 1‘: ‘7 -
1" . '8. 

I"

 

168

PROGRAM

A Summer of Surprises

Playground program in Anchorage, Alaska, ofers ten exciting weeks of summer fun

Louise Sims Wulf

URPRISE was the order of the day
S on the playgrounds in Anchorage,
Alaska, last summer. A special
part of the playground program was the
surprise which served as a pick-up dur-
ing each day. Bubble-blowing, whis-
tling, biggest-feet and pocket-contents
contests were surprise activities, as well
as eating relays, people obstacle races,
shoe scrambles, standing broad grins,
number guesses, riddles, stunts—such
as “High Step” and “I See a Ghost”—
balloon races, relays and decorating
contests, magic games, tug-o-war, noise
games, parties, Clothespin drops, treas-
ure and scavenger and penny hikes.

The Anchorage Parks and Recreation
Department sponsors a summer recre-
ation program for children aged six to
twelve, on the supervised playgrounds
located in six heavily populated areas
of the city. These had a total attendance
in 1963 of 53,927 children as compared

to a total of 42,000 children served in
1962.

Staff consisted of six playground
leaders; six playground assistants; a
traveling music, drama, and story spe-
cialist; and a supervisor. The grounds
were open from 10AM to noon and 1PM

to 4:30PM each weekday, June 10
through August 16.

The theme for the summer of 1963
was “Operation Vacation.” The weekly
themes were: (1) “Project Elephant in

 

MRS. WULF is playground supervisor
for the Parks and Recreation Depart-
ment in Anchorage, Alaska.

APRIL. 1964

Orbit,” (2) “Project Rock Soup,” (3)
“Project Big Fish,” (4) “Project Guys
and Dolls,” (5) “Project Pretty Pic-
ture,” (6) “Project Play-Day,” (7)
“Project Rock-Hound,” (8) “Project
Marathon,” (9) “Project Curtain Call,”
and (10) “Project Hoe-Down,” with
activities adapted to each. Such sports
as four square, softball, kickball, base-
ball, tetherball, basketball, flag and
touch football, tumbling games and
stunts, Ping-pong, swimming, tennis
and track events were included. Low-
organized games—circle games, tag
games, guessing games, “magic” games,
relays and stunts, ball games, and music
and drama games—were easily related
to the theme.

Board and table games, jacks, hop-
scotch, jump rope, and apparatus play,
shufHeboard, horseshoes, croquet, were
all routine activities. Tricks done by
manipulating strings held on your
hands proved to be a summerlong fa-
vorite activity, and many children in
the Anchorage area can now make the
difiicult “Jacob’s Ladder,” as well as

the easier tricks such as “Crow’s Feet.”

THE FIRST WEEK of the program,
“Project Elephant in Orbit,” fea-
tured an outer-space circus. Making
space costumes and preparing acts for
this soon aroused playground spirit and
helped the children get acquainted with
each other and their leaders. Crafts in-
cluded finger painting (space pictures),
space peepshows, large paper-sack
masks which could be part of a costume

for the circus, and F ather’s Day cards.
Many of the costumes were quite origi-
nal and ingenious. This week was one
of heavy attendance and the space circus
allowed each child to participate. Ball
throws, animal acts, best-costume con-
tests, penny tosses, and refreshments
from othér planets got the summer off
to a good start.

An extra feature of “Operation Vaca-
tion” was participation in the Alaska
Festival of Music. Playground children
attended classes in Japanese folk danc-
ing and saw puppet shows which gave
many of them ideas for their own pup-
pet shows held on the playgrounds.
Through the festival the children also
got to see a special performance by two
Eskimo dancers, a treat even for old
Alaskan residents!

The drama program was concen-
trated on in half-hour sessions once a
week and was also incorporated into
other phases of the program, with cha-
rades, pantomimes, acting-out stories,
songs, stunts, skits, and puppetry. Also,
beginnings were made for one-act play
competitions.

Storytelling proved an excellent
method of relating the theme to play-
ground activities and of stirring up
imaginations. Fairy tales, both the old
traditional stories and those with a
slightly different approach, were highly
enjoyed by children of all ages. They
provided a basis for art activities and
puppet shows, as well.

Musical activities included singing.
marching, and rhythm bands. The

160

rhythm instruments were popular on all
grounds and allowed children, who
otherwise had no opportunity to play
an instrument, to participate with a
group of beginners on their own level.
Singing was an everyday, all-the-time,
any-place activity. The children had
quite a repertoire of nonsense songs,
rounds, action songs, folksongs, and
ballads by the end of the summer. New
tunes were presented each week and the
singing was conducted not only by the
specialist in a once-a-week session but
also informally by playground leaders,
and often spontaneously started by the
children themselves.

Dancing twice-a-week was devoted to
both instruction and requests. Folk and
square dances, reels, jigs, and modern
dances were taught. Each playground
had its own special dance which was
taught to only that one ground. Their
dances were performed on television
and at the dance festival.

A VALUABLE and very successful pro-
gram was conducted this summer
for junior leaders. These ten-to-twelve-
year-old helpers won points by perform-
ing tasks necessary to a smoothly run-
ning playground. The JL’s mixed paints,
helped with dancing, checked out games
and equipment, et cetera. They formed
clubs, elected officers, held their own
meetings and decided, themselves, as to
their duties and responsibilities. When
helping, they wore Special badges which
allowed the children and the leaders to
immediately tell who was on duty.

Every week the J L’s from each play-
ground held a special event—field trips
to the bakery, fire station, airport, which
vastly added to their prestige. Junior
leaders also visited other playgrounds,
to observe what other grounds were do-
ing and add to their know-how.

As a reward for services rendered to
the playgrounds, those junior leaders
who had given fifteen hours of service
were taken on an overnight campout to
Goose Lake. They were divided into two
groups. the girls going one night and
the boys the next. Campfire skits. sing-
ing, swimming, ballgames, hiking, and
eating were treats. The weather was
good so the children slept out on the
beach, many of them for the first time,

and they were amazed at the brightness
of the stars. As a result, there were many

170

requests for other campouts. (Even
from the weary playground leaders who
weren’t accustomed to listening to ghost
stories all night!)

ANOTHER of the very successful events
of the summer was held during
“Project Rock Soup.” The crafts for
the week were hobos made of card-
board rolls, collages made from materi-
als found on the playground, and hobo
games, yoyos made from buttons,
bolero games made from milk cartons
and parachutes. Walking sticks were
also cut and decorated.

A hobo cookout was the first all-city
event and all the children came in hobo
costume. Many, many hot dogs and
roasted marshmallows were consumed.
The hobos climbed trees, sang, rolled
down the grassy hills of Elderberry
Park, and swapped items they made on
their playgrounds with children from
other grounds. The children loved this
chance to get dirty without being
scolded for it!

The fish derby was held during the
week of “Project Big Fish.” Fishermen
say that the biggest fish bite when it
rains and this must have been the case
this summer! In spite of the bad weath-
er, the children enjoyed splashing after
cork fish in the wading pool. Two-foot-
long poles, paperclip hooks. and three
feet of string made up the fishermen’s
gear. Each child angled after three sizes
of cork fish Hoating on the pool. Points
were given and the winners received
ribbons. The children fished with one
arm behind them. In crafts during this
week fish poles were made and deco-
rated, string painting done, and paper-
maché masks made over large balloons.

“Project Guys ’n Dolls” was a smash
hit! The little girls dressed up like
mommies, took their baby dolls, and
attended tea parties. The fellows came
as pirates and held treasure hunts,
played “Walk the Plank.” went on hikes.
On one playground, the pirates raided
the young ladies’ party and took their
jewelry to hold for “ransom” (food).
At one tea party, the girls danced to
and acted out “The Nutcracker Suite,”
and on all grounds the girls enjoyed
the chance to play dress-up without any
scoffing remarks from the boys. All in
all. it was a fun-filled, exciting day for
both groups because each could play

pretend in its own private world. The
girls made their dress-up hats and deco-
rated them with feathers, braid, beads,
and glitter. The boys made pirate hats,
patches, knives, and other pirate gear.
A more ambitious craft project for the
girls was the making of tincan clowns.
The boys tried their woodcarving skills

on wooden blocks and many did very
well.

D URING “Project Pretty Picture,” the
children on all the playgrounds
tried out many different art mediums,
ranging from simple blow and string
pictures to more difficult collage, frot-
tage, and charcoal media. Paint and
crayon was used in every conceivable
way. Soon the grounds were covered
with pictures, the walls, floors, tables.
and leaders with paint, glue, and
crayon!

Real live “artists” judged the entries
in the art show which was held on
Thursday, and the first-place winners
in each of the five main categories were
placed on display in the Z. J. Loussac
Library. Older children went on special
charcoal-sketching hikes. During the
judging, “Modern Artist Parties” were
held on the grounds. The children
dressed as artists and painted on the
walls (covered with newsprint) to their
hearts’ content. They also played games
which involved sketching, and “Shapes-
in-Space” mobiles were made.

“Project Play Day” came next and
was celebrated in great style with an
all-city playday held at one of the cen-
trally located grounds. Events were con-
ducted in round-robin fashion; each
group was conducted by leaders to dif-
ferent parts of the playground where
they participated in the events that
were set up there. Tugs-o-war, throws.
dashes, relays, and races were included.
and children competed on the basis of
age and sex. Everyone ate lunch to-
gether before the events began, which
allowed the children to make friends
among the other playground groups.
After all the groups had completed all
the events. everyone gathered together
and the winners were announced.

That week we made puppets, and
how the children enjoyed them! Each
playground used the materials on hand.
whcther spools, milk cartons, wooden
spoons. socks. paper sacks, light bulbs.

RECREATION

old balls, or just a finger and a piece of
cloth! Puppet stages were constructed
andfairy tales, stories, and songs acted
out. Even the shy ones loved speaking
to a group—as long as they had a pup-
pet to speak through. Gimp braiding
rounded out the week and remained a
popular pastime the remainder of the
summer. Other crafts included piggy
banks made from plastic bottles, pipe-
cleaner animals, and splatter painting.
Ribbons were given in many categories
for both events. The judging was done

by citizens interested in the play-
grounds.

THE CITY-WIDE tournaments were

held during “Project Marathon,”
and city champions were chosen in
chess, checkers, hopscotch, four square,
tetherball, Ping-pong, jacks, pick-up-
sticks, and Chinese checkers. All of the
winners were announced in a final
gathering and ribbons were awarded.
For some grounds, this was a time for
hikes, hunts, and cookouts. The children
made starched string balls, invitations
to the parent’s pageant, American pi-
r'iatas from paper sacks, and soap carv-
ings this week.

The ninth week of the summer was
the culmination of the drama and music
programs. The special event for “Proj-
ect Curtain Call” was “The Big Rock
Candy Mountain,” a variety of plays,
pantomimes, and dramatizations pre-
sented by each playground. The week
was spent making costumes and props
and rehearsing acts. The program was
exciting and thrilling for the children,
and a pleasant surprise for their par-
ents.

The dance festival included exhibi-
tion dances, the presentation of junior
leader certificates, a dancing program

for all the children, refreshments, and
request dances. Each playground had
made a mural depicting its playground,
and these were hung around the gym
so that the children could tell where
they were to sit. Crafts included stained-
glass windows, pencil holders, the mu-
rals, and paper-cup people.

Other arts and crafts used through-
out the summer were paper squirrels,
caterpillars, airplanes, pinwheels, book-
marks, dream houses, crayon resists,
water coloring, paper Howers, toothpick
pins, egg-carton creatures, paperplate
masks and letter holders, situpons, and
Chinese paper folding. Most of the ma-
terials used for crafts were gained
through a scavenger hunt held on each
playground at the beginning of the
season.

Swimming lessons were conducted
through the cooperation of the SPA,
the YMCA, and the city of Anchorage.
Golf lessons were given twice a week
at Forrest Park Golf Course. A series
of tennis lessons was conducted at the
Tenth and “E” courts for children and
young adults. Goose Lake was open for
swimming and picnicking from June 1
to August 25. The teen center was open
afternoons and evenings, and sponsored
a basketball clinic, dances, and parties.

“Operation Vacation” provided an
unforgettable summer of experience to
the recreation staff and hours of fun,
excitement, and surprise for the chil-

dren of Anchorage. #

o The string tricks which proved so
popular in Anchorage are described in
all their endless variety in two recent
books, String Figures and How To Make
Them by Caroline F. Jayne (Dover,
I962I and Pastimes with String and
Paper by William R. Ransom (Christo—
pher, I963) .—Ed.

 

 

Healthful fun for every age group!
DIMCO SHUFFLEBOARD

  

APRIL, 1964

Children. young people. adults . . .
Dimco Shuffleboard for excitement. relaxation and
wholesome exerciseI Court diagram can easily be laid.
indoors or outdoors. Famous Dimco equipment. in
low-price "Sunlite" or premium-quality "Free-Glide"
Iines. comes in sturdy Regulation Sets or Junior Sets
(2/3 regulation size).

everyone enioys

FREE . . . Court layout plans. game rules. catalog oi
Dimco shuffleboard sets. Write today to:

DIMCO-GRAY, 205 E. Sixth St, Dayton 2, Ohio
m

we, =1r

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

IT’S SENSATIONAL!

and BETTER

'-

O

Personally Tested and
Endorsed by HOWARD HILL

9==—====—==>

FUR SCHOOLS, CAMPS. CLUBS.
CBIIEGES. PARK DISTRICTS

Those in the know are switching to PRE-
CISION-PAK. This new, revolutionary, square
archery target gives you 27% more shoot-
ing area. and is less expensive than any
comparable round target. Proved in tough
national tournaments. Made of highly com-
pressed “Curlex” wood fibres. it is self-
healing. Square shape is easy to stack.
stand up, carry. store, or ship. Available in
seven standard sizes. Special size targets
for- automatic archery lanes, or indoor

ranges. available. Also specially designed
wrre stands and carts for all srzes.

NATION-WIDE DISTRIBUTION from 30 dif-
ferent locations throughout the U.S. For
complete information and prices write:

Western Aspen Division. American Excelsior
Corp. 900 Avenue H. East. Arlington, Texas

Western Wood Division. American Excelsior
Corp. 8320 Cranford Street, Pico Rivera,
California

American Excelsior Corporation. 1000 N.
Halsted Street, Chicago, Illinois 60622

 

171

MAKING HISTORY ON
THE PLAYGROUNDS

Don N. Anderson

[STORY was made on the playgrounds of Janesville,
Wisconsin, last year. This is the story of a pageant
of local history, a short history of the City of J anes-

ville, Wisconsin, the big summer project at J anesville’s play-
grounds. Hundreds of children and many adults had a
wonderful time taking part in it. And a large group of boys
and girls became junior historians—members of the Janes—
ville Playgrounds Chapter of the State Historical Society
of Wisconsin.

There was regular playground fun, of course—games and
races, craftwork of all kinds, and lots of other organized
activities for boys and girls. But history was the theme of
a special activity—one for the children who wanted to do
i more than just play. There were really two history programs.
First was a music-dance festival, “Those Who Settled Wis-
consin.” More than two hundred boys and girls sang and
danced, telling a musical story of the people from other
lands who came to live in Wisconsin. N o, the Indians weren’t
forgotten. Burbank Playgrounds presented an Indian rain
dance.

A large audience—over four hundred grown-ups and

MR. ANDERSON is editor of Badger History, publication of
the State Historical Society of Wisconsin. This material ap-
peared in the November 1963 issue.

 

172

children—came to see the festival at Marshall Junior High
School. After the program there was a dance for the boys
and girls in the parking lot outside the school.

J anesville’s recreation director, Pat W. Dawson, is an
active member of the Rock County Historical Society. He
thinks there is real fun in learning about J anesville’s history
—why a city grew there, who the early settlers were, who
started businesses and industries. “J anesville is rich in his-
torical heritage,” he says, “and its own people so little know
its storyl”

When you do something you really enjoy, you start think-
ing that others would like to do it, too. Mr. Dawson found
pleasure in learning about Janesville’s past. Maybe the boys
and girls who come to the playgrounds would like history
digging as much as he did. They could have a whole summer
of fun with history. “Playgrounds are something more than
just ‘fun centers’,” he says. “They have an educational re-
sponsibility to perform.”

Mr. Dawson didn’t mean that fun had to go. He had been
thinking about this for many years—-—fun and learning can
be better than only playing games. Play acting is exciting.
Children like to get dressed up in costumes and make believe
they are heroes from the past. A history pageant ought to be
special fun because nearly everyone could be in it. Why not
tell the story of Janesville?

A century has passed.
At the lincoln-Tallman
Museum the children
heard all about the
Underground Railroad
and Lincoln's visit. Most
communities can boast
of similar "home-
steads"and|andmarks.

RECREATION

A big summer project in which they discover

 

PROGRAM

 

new facts about their community is thoroughly enjoyed

by children and adults-at-large

Each year Mr. Dawson hoped he would have enough time
and help to work out all the problems. A pageant takes a lot
of planning and hard work to get ready—especially when
sixteen different playgrounds are going to take part in it.
Finally came 1963, and it seemed to be the right year. In
March, Mr. Dawson asked his assistant, Elaine Portlance,
to start doing research. In the next months, Mrs. Portlance
dug up all the J anesville history she could find. She looked
everywhere—old books, newspapers, pamphlets, pictures,
maps, and other records. Each of these told her part of the
story. She learned about Black Hawk and how General
Atkinson’s army pursued this proud leader and his people
through Rock County. She learned the stories of the first
settlers—John Inman, William Holmes, the St. Johns, and
Henry lanes for whom the city was named. There were
hundreds of questions to be asked and hundreds ~of answers
to be found. “We discovered many local ‘facts of history7
were in error,” says Mr. Dawson.

Mrs. Portlance finished her big job of research. Then
came another problem: writing the pageant. What parts of
Janesville’s history should be uSed? How much of the story
can we tell? How will we tell it? It took many meetings,
arguments, interviews, and discussions to answer all these
questions.

Mr. Dawson Writes, “We decided we would limit the

I Love You Truly, Truly,
Dear. Carrie Jacobs
Bond lived here when
she wrote her famous
song that has become
a wedding tradition.
Many an ordinary
house can tell an in-
teresting story or two.

APRIL, 1964

offering to the years through the First World War.” As there
are sixteen playgrounds, they decided that each would be
responsible for a skit about one important person from
Janesville’s past. The characters were to be men and women
who founded the city and made it grow. Some were settlers.
Others started newspapers, industries, and businesses. All
were important leaders—people who make a city become
different from any other.

Nancy Brussat, the recreation department’s drama spe-
cialist, had the job of writing the pageant. First she wrote
the skits as she thought they should be—a sort of skeleton
pageant. Then all the information Mrs. Portlance had found
had to be read again. Next, Mrs. Portlance and Mrs. Brussat
sifted and sorted the facts they wanted, and all the skits
were written again. Finally, after days and days of hard
work, they handed Mr. Dawson the whole manuscipt. He
was pleased with it and happy that this part of the job was
done.

Boys and girls at the playgrounds had research to do
also, and it was a special kind of fun. As they were going
to be actors in the pageant, they did what regular movie
and stage actors often do to “get into character.” Groups of
children went with their playground directors to see the
places where important history really took place. They went
to the site where the St. John cabin was—the home of James-

 

173

ville’s first pioneer family. At Black Hawk Grove they saw
where Black Hawk and his people camped while they waited
for their scouts to report on the army that was following
them. They saw the Hayes building that stands where the
city’s founder, Henry J anes, built a cabin by the Rock River.
And they heard about the ferry that Janes operated just
a few feet away. They visited the Tallman House and learned
about Lincoln’s visit and the Underground Railroad.

At each site the children heard the story of what once
happened there. Some closed their eyes and used their
imaginations as they listened—pretending they were seeing
the place at an important time in the long ago past. That is

 

All over Janesville folks dug into attics and old trunks for
picture albums or old clothes and at the playgrounds the
boys and girls set to work making costumes and scenery.

one of the ways real actors learn to feel just like the charac-
ters they are going to portray.

Rehearsal time came, and while some of the boys and
girls learned their parts, others helped with costumes and
scenery. Each playground director was in charge of all these
preparations for the skit his group would present.

THE PAGEANT Mr. Dawson wanted was entirely a chil-
dren’s program, with boys and girls acting the parts of
adults. Everything was supposed to be authentic—only boys
and girls don’t look like adults. Even with good makeup
they still look like children. So Mr. Dawson decided on a
good solution. At the side of the stage there would be a
large gold frame—the kind we see around old pictures. For
each skit an adult would be made up to look like the charac-
ter being portrayed. The adult would sit with his head be-
hind the frame and look like a portrait.

Many pictures were needed, too, so that costumes and
scenery could be copied carefully and made to look authen-
tic. The Rock County Historical Society helped with pictures
it had at the Tallman House. People everywhere in J anesville
helped also and dug into attics and old trunks for picture
albums or old clothes.

At the playgrounds the directors put boys and girls to
work on making costumes and scenery, and the directors
worked on them too. So did many parents and older sisters
and brothers. Everyone did a good job.

Like any big show, the history pageant needed advertis-

371

ing. Stories were printed almost every day in the J anesville
Daily Gazette as time for the show came closer. Soon, in
store windows all over town, large, attractive posters ap-
peared. “WHO WAS HENRY JANES?” was printed at the
top of one. Below the headline was a large sketch of this
pioneer. At the bottom the poster read: Come to the Lincoln-
Tallman Museum on Sunday, August 4th at 2PM. There
were posters like this for each of the fifteen characters in
the pageant (one playground had no skit).

At first, Mr. Dawson had planned to present the pageant
only once. But as soon as members of the Rock County
Historical Society had heard about this wonderful program,
they asked to have it performed at the Tallman House. It
came at just the right time, for each summer the county
society has a big Sunday program———open house, a fashion
show, an ice-cream social, and sometimes a concert. Every-
one agreed. This year there would be a special performance
of the playground history pageant. It would be the main
feature of the annual celebration.

Sunday, August 4, was the big day at the Lincoln-Tallman
Museum. A large crowd came. The weather was beautiful
and the people were gay. 0n the great lawn next to the
museum everyone listened to a lively concert by the Rock
County Summer Rural Band. Then came the pageant—fif-
teen wonderful performances by boys and girls, telling the
story of J anesville’s past.

At one side of the stage Mrs. Portlance sat on a replica
of a large rock-——the grave marker of Samuel St. John. At
her feet sat Timmy Vollmar, listening as she told the stories
being acted out. And across the stage were adults, taking
their places one by one in the large picture frame as every
new act came on.

JANESVILLE’S playground pageant was a success in every
way. Mr. Dawson’s dream had come true. The play-
ground pageant told the history of Janesville from 1831 to
1919. In the prologue Mr. Dawson wrote, “This is a history
of a city for almost its first one hundred years. It is a story
which shows that strong individuals can mold a pattern for
others to follow. Here is a city which first wanted to be only
a small farm town. It prospered and became a farm-produce
center. Strong persons made it become a transporation cen-
ter.” There were other changes along the way. “Then came
a drive to make it a manufacturing city. All these forces have
been at work through the years . . . As you leave, ask your-
self, ‘What kind of city do I want Janesville to become?’ ”
Will there be more history pageants in the playground
program at Janesville? Was this one a big enough success?
Pat Dawson is already making plans. “The natural thing
to do now,” he says, “is to have the same thing for 1919
to 1940—and then a third one for 1940 to 1964.”
Janesville’s pageant of local history began long ago in
Mr. Dawson’s mind. It became a real project in 1963. When
officials of the State Historical Society learned about it, they
thought Mr. Dawson should be honored for his excellent
work. So last September, at the Annual Institute for Local
History, Pat W. Dawson was given a Local History Award
of Merit. I think J anesville is lucky to have him. Don’t

you? if:

RECREATION

WITH A HOP,
SKIP,
AND JUMP

r1.
@ FROGRAM

A new game or two will zip up your program if the children like it!

 

ROPE SKIPPING

 

The following information for rope-shipping class instruc-
tors was prepared by Richard A. Tapply, New Hampshire

field representative of the National Recreation Association.

THE PROPER ROPE is a No. 7 sash cord. To decide on
proper length of r0pe, hold arms straight out to the
sides with elbows close to sides. Rope, held in hands,
should just touch floor behind heels. Good footwear for
skipping is a pair of high sneakers with as low a heel as
possible. Good laces should hold them firmly to the feet.

Boys and girls as young as six years, first-graders, can
participate in rope-skipping classes. All youth of this age
are not ready to start skipping, but the majority are. They
can continue to skip at any age as the desire exists. One of
my best skippers was a high-school senior.

Jumping is done with the weight equally distributed on
the toes and ball of the foot. The shock of the jump is taken
up by the ankles and knees which act as shock absorbers.
Effort should be made to jump off the floor only high enough
to allow the rope to go between the bottoms of the feet and
the Hoor. Anything more than this is unnecessary and be-
comes increasingly exhausting. Similarly, the excessive
swinging of the arms to propel the rope becomes exhausting.
Therefore, it is well to propel the rope with the wrists and
forefingers and a slight movement of the forearm. Most be-
ginning skippers make a big jump when the rope passes
beneath their feet, then a second little jump before the next
big jump. This means that each time the rope is twirled they
are jumping twice. This small jump should be eliminated
so there is only one jump for each turn of the rope.

All youth registering for rope skipping should have the
usual doctor’s physical examination. Marathon skipping
should be discouraged, nor should a skipper be allowed to
compete for the greatest number of consecutive jumps.
Maximum length of speed skipping trials should be ten
seconds.

All skipping routines are based on ten fundamental steps
or jumps:

1. Feet-Together Jump
2. Alternate-Foot Jump

APRIL, 1964

Side-by-Side Jump
Crossed-Feet and Turn Jump
Crossed-Arms Jump
Continued Crossed-Arms Jump
Backward-Twirl Jump
Slow-Step Jump
9. Deep-Knee Bend Jump

10. Double-Twirl Jump

By combining these ten fundamental jumps; by using
properties, such as boxes, hoops, balls, et cetera, by varying
tempo, thousands of individuals, duet, and group numbers
and routines can be originated. An explanation of each of
the fundamental jumps follows:
Feet-Together Jump. Body should be upright with feet
and knees together, knees bent slightly, elbows close to the
sides, rope is propelled by the wrists and the fingers. For
beginning skippers it may be necessary to propel the rope
by use of the arms. This should be gradually corrected until
there is only a slight movement of the forearm. Rope goes
under the feet each time they leave the floor.
Alternate-Foot Jump. This step is the best for speed skip-
ping and is done the same as the feet-together ump except,
instead of leaving the floor with both feet, the jump is made
with alternate feet—left, right, left, right.
Side-by-Side-Jump. Do a few feet-together jumps; then,
while maintaining the same jumping position, the rope is
swung to the left side, then to the right (not underneath the
feet), then underneath the feet on the third count—left,
right, underneath the feet; repeat.
Crossed-Feet and Turn. Cross the right foot in front of
the left so the normal position of the feet is reversed, legs
crossing at the shins, start skipping in this position, gradu-
ally turning the body until a complete turn is made.
Crossed-ArmsJump. Start skipping with the feet-together
jump. After two jumps cross arms in front of body, stretch-

93:49???

ing arms down and out, propelling rope with the crossed
arms position, underneath the feet. Keep the rope twirling
but bring arms back to normal position for two more jumps,
then cross on the third jump. The count is: jump, jump,
cross and jump, jump, jump, cross and ump.

Continued Crossed-Arms Jump. Start with feet-together
jump. When ready, cross arms as in the previous jump and
propel rope underneath the feet ten times with arms remain-
ing in the crossed position. H

175

Backward-Twirl Jump. Jump in feet-together position
but propel the rope backward.

Slow-Step Jump. When skipping rope it is often necessary
to use a rest jump. A so-called slow step serves this purpose.
While doing two slow hops on the left foot, the right is swung
like a pendulum, back, then forward, then back into place.
At this point, the weight is shifted to the right foot for two
hops while the left foot swings back and forward. The rope
goes underneath alternate feet on the first of each of the two
hops. This should be done slowly, gracefully, and in a re-
laxed position.

Deep-Knee Bend Jump. This is the feet-together jump
done in a deep-knee bend position. Buttocks should be on
heels while jumping on the toes, body upright. It will be
necessary to shorten the rope for this.

Double-Twirl Jump. The most spectacular fundamental
is the double-twirl jump. Each time the skipper jumps the
r0pe is twirled underneath the feet twice. To do this the
jump must be high while the rope is twirled very rapidly.

 

THE SICKLE GAME

AN ORIGINAL lead-off game and exercise has been devised

by John A. Dawson, a leader at the Waverly Recreation
Center in Baltimore. This is for children of Grades One
through Twelve, and can be played by two to fifty players.
Equipment needed: chalk, one wooden block marked like
dice, small blank cardboard cards, and pencil.

 

Directions

A sickle divided into thirty-eight large spaces about one

yard square is drawn on any convenient Hat surface (see '

diagram.) Each block starting with Block One on the dia-
gram and continuing through to Block Thirty-Eight is
written in to specify a particular action. There shall be four

 

176

 

 

3'0le # Script for Each Block
1 —— Hop completely around sickle. Come back and rest here.
7—”- Go ahead three blocks.
3 X
4 Stunt l
—5— Y
6 _ Take another turn.
“TI— ——— Goto nearest X.
T Go to nearest Y.
9 Start again.
T x

If Lose one turn.

12 Y

13 Stunt 2

14 Go ahead two blocks.

15 Go back two blocks.

16 I Stand on one foot.

1'! Stunt 3

T Do ten jumping jacks.
T Stunt 4
T x

21 m Spread feet. Place arms out at sides then alternate touching
your right hand to your left foot and then your left hand to
your right foot. Do this ten times.

22 *

23 Go back two blocks.

24 _H Stunt 5

25 You are a good player. Go ahead four blocks.

__26—— Y
27 Go back to Stunt 5.
T *

29 Stay on one foot from here to the end.

30 Stunt 6

31 Go to nearest Y.

32 Touch your toes ten times.

33 Jump backwards from here to the end.

34 —_ Separate feet, place hands on hips, and twist the upper part
of the body first to the right and then to the left. Do thls
ten times.

35 Do ten squats.

36 Stunt 'I

T x _
E—_—- Jump over this block and land with one foot in each clown

foot. If you miss. go back two blocks.

separate stacks of cards marked on one side X, Y, *, and
Stunt respectively, and whenever a player lands on a block
marked with one of these four marks, he shall immediately
draw a card from the corresponding pile and perform when-
ever action is requested.

The game is begun by one person rolling the single die,
which is made of wood and is approximately two inches
square, and hopping on one foot the exact number of blocks

indicated by the number showing upward on the die. Upon

RECREATION

son completes all thirty-eight blocks and jumps out being
declared the winner of that game.
Teaching Suggestions
1. 'If anyone touches a line with his foot while hopping,
a default will be declared and the person shall lose his turn.
2. With fifteen or less players, the game may be varied
by sending back to the beginning anyone who is caught by
another player. This does not mean passed by but actually
caught in one particular block by another who occupies that
very same block.

Stunts
Stunt 1. Jump in the air, click heels and land with feet

apart. If you miss, go back three blocks.

Stunt 2. Cross legs, fold your arms on your chest, sit down
keeping your legs and arms crossed and arise again. If you
miss, go back two blocks.

Stunt 3. Jump, touch heels of shoes behind your back with
your hands. If you miss, go back one block.

Stunt 4. Stand on one foot and grasp the other foot in your
hand. Do a one-legged deep-knee bend and then stand up.
If you miss, go back one block.

Stunt 5. Kneel and without using your feet and only using
the sway of your arms, jump to your feet. If you miss, go
back one block.

Stunt 6. Stand on one leg with eyes closed until someone
counts to twenty. Do not move from this position. If you
miss, go back one block.

Stunt 7. Stand on one foot, place the other foot straight
forward. Do a one-legged deep-knee bend and stand Up. If
you miss, go back three squares.

X. These cards indicate a move to a particular stunt— move
to Stunt 3.

Y. These cards indicate a move to blocks forward or back-
ward up to live; e.g., move three blocks ahead.

* These cards indicate moves forward only.

 

WHAT’S YOUR ZOO-Q?

 

A ZOO is a fascinating place to visit. It’s full of assorted
animals and children. Keeping track of the children
is almost as much of a problem as getting to see all the differ-
ent animals, as the playground leaders soon discover. Each
spring the Alameda, California, Recreation and Park De-
partment takes a hundred and fifty youngsters from its play-
grounds on a trip to the Fleishhacker Zoo in San Francisco.
Controlling the children and maintaining interest all day
is a real problem after the newness wears off. Boys and girls
will scatter to all parts of the zoo to explore by themselves.
The Alameda department has solved both problems by de-
veloping a “Zoo Scorecard.”

This scorecard lists fifty-four of the major animals in the
zoo, with a space next to each animal to check off the ani-
mal seen. A iive-by-seven-inch index card is used. The an-
imal names are typed on a ditto and run off on both sides
of the card. On the reverse- side is a score column for “Ani-
mals Seen” and “Animals Not Seen.”

APRIL, 1964

 

ing children find each other's antics mutually fascinating.

The Zoo Scorecard enables the playground leader to keep
the group together and also serves as an educational and
recreation aid. Educationally, the child retains a perma-
nent record of the many different animals he sees, as well
as those that he doesn’t happen to see and can look forward
to seeing next time. The problem of keeping the youngsters
interested is solved because all the children want to be sure
to see all there is to see and stay with the playground leader.
——STANLEY SILVER, Recreation Supervisor, Alameda, Cali-
fornia.

 

OLD GAMES REVISED

 

rI‘HE OLD-TIME broomstick game called Caddy was updated
by the Baltimore City Bureau of Recreation at play-
grounds throughout the city in March, 1963. When leader
Milton Wolf demonstrated the game during inservice train-
ing, most of the leaders under forty had never heard of Cad-
dy. The rules require each player to stand fifteen feet from
a three-foot circle. The winner is the one who swats his cat
(a six-inch length of one-inch diameter dowel tapered con-
ically at both ends) into the circle with the fewest strokes
(golfwise) using a bat, a stick about two feet long._ Plastic
caddy games were issued to the bureau’s centers. After an
article on the revival of the game appeared in The Evening
Sun “Mr. Peeps” column, men who had played the game
sent in different variations of the game, and an article con-
taining these variations appeared in Mr. Peeps column.
Another game called Shinny was also revised. A shinny
ball, unlike the ordinary marble or “hoodle,” is much larg-
er. The ball is about an inch and a half in diameter and is
usually thrown rather than shot out of the hand with the
thumb. The object of the game is to get your shinny in
a hole, then hit the other player’s ball. Once the game was
introduced it became a self-directed activity and the children
continued to play the game through the summer and fall
m0nths.——VIRGINIA S. BAKER, Supervisor, Children’s Ac-
tivities, Bureau of Recreation, Baltimore, Maryland.

177

READY, WILLING . . . and ABLE

How to train part-time and 

temporary personnel and junior leaders

Part-time and temporary personnel,
junior leaders, and volunteers can be

invaluable aides on playgrounds if
properly trained through workshops,

inservice sessions, or even extension
courses. Here are some of the training
methods employed in various parts of

the United States and Canada.

 

JUNIOR LEADERSHIP PAYS OFF

Joseph C. Carter

JUNIOR LEADERS
are boys and
girls who are will-
ing to give their
time, energy and
skill to causes they
believe are a vital
and growing force
in our society. The partnership of pro-
fessional workers and junior leaders
provides an unbeatable team in getting
things done. Organized recreation truly
can be said to have been built upon the
foundation of volunteers who believed
that all people need recreation experi-
ences. They saw certain needs among
their fellowmen and in their free time
they tried to provide the services that
would meet these needs. Soon they were
aware of the necessity for full time to
be devoted to the task—thus profes~
sional recreation services were born.
Today, although many professional
leaders, devote full time to recreation
programs, there is still a great and
growing need for the junior recreation
leader.

Since the junior leader is often also
a participant, he is usually more finely
attuned to the desires of the participants
than is the professional leader. Because
of this, the junior leader can interpret
the participants’ needs to the profes-
sional and, on the other hand, interpret
the program most effectively to the pub-

 

] 78

lic. Junior leaders bring a real recrea-
tion spirit to the program. To them
junior-leader services are a creative ex-
perience; here is something they choose
to do in their leisure time for the satis-
faction derived.

The junior recreation leader may
serve in four major functions of the
recreation program.

0 Identify the needs and interests of
the young participants.

0 Interpret the recreation program to
the community.

0 Provide leadership to groups.

0 Assist through special skills in either
program activities or administration.

The objectives of a junior leadership
are:

0 To develop a broad understanding of
the principles and philosophy of the
recreation program.

0 To enable junior leaders to develop
the proper attitude and approach to his
assigned responsibility.

0 To enable junior leaders to acquire
certain additional knowledge and skills
which may be of value in planning, pro~
moting, and coordinating the recreation
program.

0 To aid junior leaders to acquire the
knowledge of organizing and promot-
ing, and the techniques of effectively
conducting a diversified program for
all age groups.

Junior leaders may be used as:

Receptionists: Welcoming participants
as they enter and helping them to find
the services they need.

Ofice Workers: Few recreation agen-
cies have adequate staff to maintain
eflicient offices. Junior leaders, there-
fore, may act as telephone receptionists;
type reports, records, stencils, and other
materials.

Equipment and Supplies Assistants:
Keeping equipment in working order,
dispensing and controlling basket equip-
ment at swimming pool, keeping inven-
tory of supplies and equipment.
Recreation Leaders: Junior leaders with
appropriate education and experience
may be given full responsibility for
leadership of a group. They may act as
an assistant leader if their background
is more limited, act as an oHicial at
special events, assist participants with
special recreation interests.

The Ft. Lauderdale, Florida, Parks
and Recreation Department has found
junior recreation leaders aged fifteen to
eighteen to be eager and able, and has
set up a training institute for junior
volunteers. The ten-hour course in-
cludes theoretical and practical ma-
terial. A copy as well as a sample of the
application form for junior leader rec-
reation service is available from the Ft.
Lauderdale department on request.—
MR. CARTER is supervisor of recreation

in F t. Lauderdale, Florida.

RECREATION

PLAYGROUND LEADERS WORKSHOP

Alfred Elliott

ENTHUSIASM is
the keynote of
the annual Play-
ground Leaders
WorkshOp spon-
sored by the Mis-
sissippi Recreation
Association to
train the playground leaders of its mem-
ber cities. One can feel the rising inter-
est and see the avid attention of the
leaders as they learn circle games, the
knack of storytelling, and the technique
of making craft projects suitable for the
playgrounds. This workshop has been
sponsored annually since 1954, with the
group meeting in state parks, on college
campuses, or in some centrally located
city.

 

Plans for the workshop are formu-
lated by a committee of recreation su-
perintendents appointed by the MBA
president. This committee selects the
site, sets the dates, and plans the pro-
gram. The workshop is usually held the
first Sunday, Monday, and Tuesday in

June. This has proved to be the best
time as the colleges have completed
their terms, and the Mississippi play-
grounds usually open the second week
in June.

The workshop opens on Sunday night
with a dinner meeting. Two speakers
are invited, one giving an inspirational
talk, and the other a factual talk con-
cerning the purpose of the worksh0p.
On Monday, meetings are held through-
out the day, with a social planned for
Monday night. Additional meetings are
held on Tuesday until noon. With the
course starting on Sunday night and
ending on Tuesday noon, playground
leaders from anywhere in the state can
drive to the workshop during daylight
hours.

Various sessions are assigned to dif-
ferent cities by the playground work-
shop committee, and the superintendent
of recreation in that city becomes re-
sponsible for the session. Topics cov-
ered vary each year, but the following
are typical: program planning; active

games; competition and tournaments;
storytelling and simple dramatics; pro-
moting your playground; bulletin
boards; rhythms, songs, singing games;
safety, first-aid, and liability; crafts;
mechanics of the playground; quiet
games; and special events. In the ma-
jority of the sessions those in attendance
take an active part by playing the games,
making the craft projects, decorating
the bulletin board, and so on. The final
session on Tuesday offers a summary
of the course and an opportunity for
the trainees to ask questions and to
make suggestions for the next work-
shop.

The 1963 Playground Leaders Work-
shop was held in Greenwood, with over
a hundred playground leaders from
fourteen cities in attendance. The 1964
workshop will be held in Jackson on
June 6-8 with Mrs. Jimmye Ryerson,
supervisor of programs and activities
in Jackson, as chairman. MR. ELLIOTT
is superintendent of parks and recrea-
tion in Greenwood, Mississippi.

THEORY AND PRACTICE

E A R L I E R this

year the Uni-
versity of Montreal
conducted the an-
nual training
course for young
people wishing
s um m e r employ-
ment as playground
monitors (leaders) in Montreal parks
or elsewhere. The courses are organized
by the university’s extension depart-
ment with the cooperation of the Mont-
real Parks Department and are in
charge of Rene Belisle, superintendent
of recreation in the parks and lecturer
in the physical-education department of
the university’s School of Hygiene. The
two-hour classes are held two nights a
week from mid-January until the end of

    

Rene Belisle

APRIL, 1964

March and cover theory and practice.

Candidates, who must be at least
seventeen years of age by July first, and
have completed Grade Ten or the equiv-
alent, are required to pay the university
$20 fee for the course. Candidates who
follow the complete course and pass the
final examinations are furnished with
a certificate.

The object of the course is to “pre-
pare monitors to take charge of the
organization of playgrounds (municipal
or private) during the summer.” Stress-
ing the needs of the children who are
most inclined to use the playgrounds,
those aged five to about sixteen, the
course initiates prospective monitors
into the techniques and problems of
organized play and the fundamentals to
support the techniques.

This year’s course was divided into
three sections. The first covered theory
and administration and included an in-
troduction to the course, playgrounds
in general, playgrounds in Montreal,
and organized play on the playground.
The second section explored recreation’s
psychological bases and covered an in-
troduction to the theory of organized
recreation, biological aspects of athle-
tics and sports, and the child and play.
The third section was devoted to practi-
cal and theoretical application which
included group games, special events
and realizing themes, team games, sing-
ing choruses, sports (with a separate
session on volleyball), dramatics, athle-
tics, folklore in general, and comport-
ment of the monitor. This assures Mon-
treal of a reservoir of trained personnel.

179

WANTED: New Ideas for
City Playgrounds

Design competition provokes controversy, criticism, and commendation

BOUT A YEAR AGO, the Park Asso-
A ciation of New York City, Inc.,
a nonprofit group, sponsored a
student competition for new playground
designs and ideas. Object: A new ap-
proach to city playgrounds which would
combine the practical needs of dura-
bility and maintenance with color, va-
riety, imagination, and child appeal.
Said the association, “Good play-
grounds are horizons for city children.
They can provide castles in the air,
mountains to conquer, oceans to cross,
big construction jobs, battle scenes, jun-
gles, deserts—almost anything a child
can dream. Imagination and layout
can help fill the hearts of city kids ev-
erywhere.”

Any student duly enrolled in any art,
architecture, or design school anywhere
in the world was eligible to enter the
contest. No prizes were offered, just
certificates of commendation. All en-
tries had to be in by January 20, 1964,
and became the property of the Asso-
ciation. Entries could be submitted in
any of the following categories:

0 A play area for children under six
years old, accompanied by mothers.

0 A mixed play area for under-six-
year-old accompanied children and
over-six unaccompanied children.

0 A neighborhood play area for chil-
dren over six, with occasional adults
within the play area.

0 A playground located within a park
area.

0 Any other situation.

The projected playground was to be
located in an urban area and be sur-
rounded by buildings (except when lo-
cated in a park area). The recommend-
ed size was an area forty by one hun-
d red feet, but any other sized area could
be selected, smaller or larger.

In addition to the standard require-
ments of any urban playground: to be
safe, to require a minimum of main-
tenance, and to be designed for con-

1530

stant intensive use, the following qual-
ities were considered:

0 Equipment and design which does
not tire or bore, but has interest with
extended use, provoking continued
thought and response.

0 Area and equipment design stimulat-
ing to the young user’s mind.

0 An area and equipment pleasing in
its content when seen by non-using
adults.

 

The special exhibition opened in the
Architectural League of New York on
February 16. The judges of the con-
test were such eminent people as Victor
D’Amico, director of education, Muse-
um of Modern Art, New York City; El-
inor C. Guggenheimer, commissioner,
New York City Planning Commission;
Karl Linn, professor of landscape archi-
tecture, University of Pennsylvania;
John H. Niemeyer, president, Bank
Street College of Education, New York
City; William Reid, chairman, New
York City Housing Authority; Charles
H. Starke, director of recreation, De-
partment of Parks, New York City;
and Robert L. Zion, landscape architect,
New York City.

The comments of the judges on their
selections for commendation from the

more than two hundred entries, sent in
from students in this country, Canada,
Spain, France, Belgium and Poland, in-
dicated that they did not expect or look
for plans suitable for immediate use:

“In judging the entries in this play-
ground design competition we have ap-
plied a number of standards, including
suitability to city use, maintenance,
economy, safety, integrity and quality
of design, and that elusive spark—fresh-
ness of idea. In making our selections
we have kept in mind the fact that the
entries have been prepared by students
rather than professionals, and under
limited time schedules. Few, if any, of
the entries we have selected for the ex-
hibition are suitable for actual execu-
tion in their present form. We have,
however, picked out those entries which
have contained one or more elements
which seem to us to have particular
value in developing new playground de-
sign. Those who view the exhibition
should keep in mind that we have many
reservations about particular entries,
but that we do believe that each entry
we have selected can contribute some-
thing to the stimulation of useful new
thinking on a subject that has been too
long neglected in our schools and in the
professional world at large.”

Certificates of commendation were
awarded to student entries from the
Universities of Illinois, Penn State,
Louisiana State, Florida, Kansas State,
UCLA, North Carolina, Southern Illin-
ois, Pennsylvania, Pratt Institute, Uni-
versity of Manitoba, and National Hog-
er Instituut, Antwerp, Belgium. Other
entries of interest came from students
in the University of Illinois, University
of Florida, Pratt Institute, Louisiana
State, Penn State, Art Institute of Chi-
cago, University of Manitoba, and from
Barcelona, Spain, and the Academy of
Fine Art, Warsaw, Poland.

At a preview of this exhibit, New
C ontinucd on Page 205

RECREATION

 

 
 
     
 

    

t  await: a}: I algae/[M

LOUISVILLE SLUGGER

 

 

u .
7—. a. -

.

- LDUISVtLLE EM.“ "

 

'25 GENUINE AUTOGRAPHED LOUISVILLE SLUGGER—POWERIZED. Turned from choice. open-air-seasoned white ash with natural finish.
Authentic autographedmodels of the twenty-four sluggers listed below comprise the No. l25 line. An assortment of not fewer than six models is

guaranteed to each carton of one dozen. Packed 4/33". 5/34". and 3/35" bats in each carton. Shipping weight. 26 pounds .................................... ..Eoch $4.90
MODELS:

Henry Aaron Narm Cash Nelson Fox Roger Moris Jockie Robinson

Bob Allison Orlando Cepedo Jim Gentile Ed Mothews Bill White

Ernie Bonks Roberto Clemente AI Kaline Bobby Richardson Maury Wills

Yogi Berra Rocky COIaVito Harmon Killebrew Brooks Robinson Carl Yostrzemski

Ken Boyer Tommy Davis Mickey Montle Fronk Robinson

1258 SPEcIAL AUTOGRAPHED LOUISVILLE SLUGGER—POWERIZED. (Not illustrated). Quality and finish identical to No. I25 above.
but turned to slightly smaller dimensions for the particular requirements of High School. Prep School. Bobe Ruth Leogue. P-O-N-Y Boseboll.
and other teen—age players. Listed below are the autographed models in the l25$ group. An assortment of not fewer than six models is guar-

anteed to each carton ofione dozen. Packed 4/32". 5/33". and 3/34" bats in each carton. Shipping weight. 24 pounds ........................................... ..Eoch $4.90
MODELS:
Henry Aoron Norm Cosh Nelson Fox Mickey Mantle Jackie Robinson
Ernie Bonks Rocky Colovito Al Kaline Roger Moris Moury Wills .
'Yogi Berro Tommy DOVis Harmon Killebrew Ed Mathews Cori YastI-zemskl
43 ASH FUNGO—GENUINE LOUISVILLE SLUGGER—POWERIZED. (Not illustrated). Quality and finish identical to No. l25 above. Each
carton of one dozen contains three (34") infield and nine (37" and 38") outfield fungoes. Shipping weight. 20 pounds. .    Eoch $4.90

 

115 FLAME TEMPERED—GENUINE AUTOGRAPHED LOUISVILLE SLUGGER. Turned from choice. open-air-seasoned white ash timber. Flame
Tempered finish. and burn branded. the same as the bats used by many prominent maior league hitters. An assortment of not fewer than six
models is guaranteed to each carton of one dozen. Single lengths (33". 34" or 35") of your choice. Shipping weight. 26 pounds .................. ..Eoch $4.90

1253 FLAME TEMPERED—SPECIAL AUTOGRAPHED LOUISVILLE SLUGGER. (Not illustrated). ualit and finish identical +0 I25 Flame
Tempered abOVe. but turned to slightly smaller specifications for the particular requirements of High choo . Prep School. Bobe Ruth Leogue.
P-O-N-Y Boseboll. and other teen-age players. An assortment of not fewer than six models is guaranteed to each carton of one dozen. All

   

bats of one length (32". 33" or 34") of your choice. Shipping weight. 24 pounds ............................................................................................................................... .. Each $4.90

.5... . A A L I“   —. ' t w   '. mt—  . .. I. - - _— .
f  W‘~W‘JWWW  tar twasa:---ue.—:vw-u {Wt'uli . J - - ~ in“. ’- ' :‘FL--r\ ‘-* -'"- ' t . j" ,_;=_... o ‘4‘” '
5‘. -';I y    G I  mum I. ~ W ~ ~~ ' new“ * Q, i w: Seam
 i w   . .  .   .‘  i P - .‘a’mhww- '15 - New cull * ..

y .I -:_:-‘:~ v I.  ..c  .. . cm. ' _ m. M . ‘ M t -m.

. - I n - . . r - _ .- _~—

‘ ’ ' ~ . ._ m ‘

‘50 GRAND SLAM—Turned from select northern white ash timber. natural white finish. Patterned after the original models of the famous
sluggers whose names they bear. Six authentic models guaranteed to each carton of one dozen. .Lengths 4/33". 5/34". and 3.35" bats in each

carton. Shipping weight. 26     ..  .. Each $3.80

1503 SPECIAL GRAND SLAM—(Not illustrated). Quality and finish identical to NO. ISO above. but turned to slightly smaller dimensions
for the particular reqUIrements of High School. Prep School. Babe Ruth League. P-O-N-Y Baseball. and other teen-age players. Six models

      

   

guaranteed to each carton of one dozen. Lengths 4/32". 5/33". and 3/34" bats in carton. Shipping weight. 24 pounds  .. Eoch $3.80
“at... __:'~'~  g ““ ’ - '" .,:;M w: “I  IGEIDIAL. - d
 ......._.  - Wu“-   -
. ski w '- r- o - -  . 1 Q‘ I 1 Jr 7: -

“as SPECIAL POWER DRIVE. Turned from fine white ash. natural white finish. Patterned after the Original models of the famous
sluggers whose names they bear. but turned to slightly smaller specifications for the particular requirements of High School. Prep School.
BObe Ruth League. P-O-N-Y Baseball. and other teen-age players. Six models guaranteed to each carton of one dozen. Assorted lengths 32"
to 34"; shipping weight. 24 pounds... ..  .   .  . .... ..  . . . .. .     . .  .. . ..   Eoch $3.30

  
   
   
     

  

Bats for JUNIOR 0 PONY O COLT BASEBALL

Any bat In the Louisville Slugger bat line may be used in COLT
LEAGUE play. For PONY LEAGUE the following are approved:
1258, 1508, 1408. and 1308. Also, any Junior or Little League
numbers may be used in Pony League or JUNIOR PONY LEAGUE.

Bats for BABE RUTH LEAGUE
Any bat in the Louisville Slugger bat line may be used m BABE

RUTH LEAGUE play. However, the “specials” (1258, 1508.
1408, and 1308) are particularly suitable for players of this age

group.

     
     
   

  

 

I“! 5'
so“ “15106.62?
lllllElllUlEHllAllSUiEE‘

IIIHOI lllltllEI

 

“w SAFE HIT. Finished in natural ash white and supplied in an assortment of famous sluggers' models in each carton of One dozen. As-
sorted lengths from 33" to 35"; shipping weight. 25 pounds .  ..  . . .. .. .    506'! $2.70

“8 BIG LEAGUER. Black finish with white tape grip. An assortment of famous sluggers' models in each carton of one dozen. Lengths
range from 32" to 35"; shipping weight. 25 pounds . . . . .   -- - --     Each $2.30

   

5P! DIAL
 #25

M “I "NI

 

I308 SPECIAL SAFE HIT. Turned from ash. with rich dark maroon finish and natural white handle. Patterned after original models of the
famous sluggers whose names they bear. but turned to slightly smaller specifications for the particular requirements of High School. Prep
School. Babe Ruth League. P-O-N-Y Baseball. and other teen-age players. Six models guaranteed to the carton of one dozen. assorted lengths
32" to 34"; shipping weight. 24 pounds     . .. . . . .......................  ..  . .  .  Each $2.30

 

9 LEADER. Natural finish. Assorted famous sluggers' models. Assorted lengths. from 32" to 35"; shipping weight. 26 pounds ............................. ..Each $1.80

   

BASEBALL ' LITTLE LEAGUE 0 SOFTBALL

LOUISVILLE I0. 500 BAT ASSORTHEHT
with I8 Bats
is shipped with a hard hitting

FLOOR DISPLAY CARTON

Contains:

6 BASEBALL BATS — 8 LITTLE LEAGUE BATS—
One each of models Two each of models

125 Flame Tempered, 125LL, 125] and IZ.

125$ Flame Tempered One each of models

150$, 140$, 1308 and 9. 12588 and JL.

4 SOFTBALL BATs_ All these bats are illustrated

under their preper numbers
one eaCh 0' madels elsewhere; shipping weight,

100W. 54. 52” arid 50. 35 pounds per unit. .$51.95 a

OUISVILLE SLUGGER
and H & B

ME 5
6‘6. Basil/5’69
IllllElIlEl'lEHIIAIISH'III‘é

olllcjnt OOOI‘IAII.

 

1251. LOUISVILLE SLUGGER "VENUS" OFFICIAL SOFTBALL BAT— POWERIZED. For girl hitters. A small-barreled bat with gradual

taper to a small grip. Natural white finish northern White ash. One dozen in cartonI 33" length: shipping weight. 20 pounds ............ .. Each $3.50
  , . -. . ' “i “1/6" F4 .. u .
. V ' “r”! ' ‘ (Us, -0    ‘0 9“} ‘9 "A'
. Quintin isms: c!- s 
k (cum: in ALL“)? ,' a .Mw:r.q”. F,
.11 . on;

_4_ st»

u

 

101 LOUISVILLE SLUGGER "SWING KING" OFFIOIAL SOFTBALL BAT. Assorted popular softball models Of first quality ash and/Or
hickory. Oil Tempered and finished in saddle brown. Packed one dozen to carton, 6/33" and 6/34"; shipping weight, 23 pounds .................... ..Eacl'l $2.90

 
    
    
 

HIM sum-m

RT}—

mus-nut Ex fl

 
      

6’6? "'
“was”?

100W LOU_ISVILLE SLUGGER "DART" OFFICIAL SOFTBALL BAT. Assorted popular softball models. Turned from high quality ash
and/or hIlckory. Natural white finish and Oil Tempered. One dozen in carton, 6/33” and 6/34"' shipping weight. 22 pounds.....-........-........ Each $2.90

   

3000 LOUISVILLE SLUGGER "MARS" OFFICIAL “SLOW-PITCH" SOFTBALL BAT. Ash and/or hickory finished in ebony. White tape

grip. (New maximum size—2V4" in diameter). Packed one dozen to carton 6/32" and 6/33". Shipping weight 22 pounds.................-..................-.Each 52-90
.ngJM@ 
Ma. _ - -

 

55 It's _O Louisville "TITANTIC" OFFICIAL SOFTBALL BAT. Natural finish. Ash and/or hickory. Green zapon grip. One dozen assorted
"IOdelS In carton. 33" and 34" lengths; shipping weight. 22 pounds ______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Each $2.20

 

54 It's a Louisville “JET POWER" OFFICIAL SOFTBALL BAT. Assorted models turned from ash and/or hickory. Brown finish and
black zapon grip. One dozen in carton. 5/33" and 5/34"- shipping weight. 23 pounds ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,  ____________________________ ,. ........................................... __Each $2.20

75 RB RAINBOW ASSORTMENT

7-5“ H a. I RAINBOW ASSORTMENT OF "RED FLASH." "GREEN FLASH" AND "BLUE
FLASH" SOFTBALL BATS. An assertment of softball models finished in bright red. green and blue
with gold branding. Solid White tape grip. Four bats Of each finish to each carton of one dozen.

6/1”" and 6/32" lengths: shipping weight, 23 pounds ................................................................................................. __ Each $2.80

 

LOUISVILLE SLUGGER
and H & B

  
 

NI 5
a“ mu"?
HIHERIDIEBRAHSW

         
     
 

5“- It's 0 Louisville "SWATTER" OFFICIAL GIRLS' MODEL. Natural white finish ash with blue zapon grip. One dozen in carton, 33"
length: shipping Weight. 2|  $2.20

   

51H "RANGER" OFFICIAL SOFTBALL BAT. Turned from ash and/or hickory and finished in ebony. One dozen assorted models to carton,
33" and 34" lengths; shipping weight, 23 pounds........ 51.90

 

51” "TRU-HIT" OFFICIAL SOFTBALL BAT. Turned from ash and/or hickory; maroon finish and gray zapon grip. Assorted models. One
dozen to carton. 33" and 34" lengths; shipping weight, 23 pounds...“    $1.70

I‘“\\\\\ 

5° "WALLOPER" OFFICIAL SOFTBALL BAT. Brown finish. One dozen assorted models to carton, 33" and 34" lengths; shipping weight,
23 pounds ............................................................................................................................. ..‘. ...................................................................................................................................... ..Each $I.35

   

RECREATION AND PLAYGROUND BATS

These newly developed models were specially designed to fill the need for all-purpose bats in Recreation and Playground play.

- _——_——. a

"‘"mmiw- ——-~" www=mr~W-JT-—--~-a“ mam Ems ca; gb‘   _,  ,'
HiLLERlCH &B SBY 9 ' career/M
Lawzeiguc  wmwm - '

R05 LOUISVILLE SLUGGER OFFICIAL "RECREATION" BAT. Natural ash finish. Blue foil branding. White tape grip. One dozen in
carton. All bats single length (28", 29", 30", 3|", or 32") of your choice. Shipping weight, 20 pounds ..................................................................... .- Each $2.70

 

“v-whie e .74

 

 

PLI'. OFFICIAL PLAYGROUND BAT. An assortment finished in Red. Blua, and Green (4 of each color to the dozen) with gold foil branding.
White tape grip. One dozen in carton—assorted models only, 28" to 32". Shipping weight, 20 pounds -  - Edd! 51-.)

 

M CRACKERJACK BAT Small boy's bat. Golden finish, burn branded. Three dozen in carton_ 28" length only. Shipping weight. 45
pounds . .. ........ ..  .... .. ..  .  . ..... .,  .................. ..  Each 51-00

n f, - 4. AA 0 [3 A AA A _——-r"‘ _ I - .. n

l
l

A REPORTER’S NOTEBOOK

 

Surfing Safety

AFIVE-DAY safety workshop for surf-
ers was held in March by the Beach
Lifeguard Division of the Los Angeles
City Recreation and Parks Department.
The pilot program, approved by the
National Surfing Association, presented
beginning surfers with information on
the courtesy and safety of the popular
sport. Sessions were held in a special
surfing area at Isidore B. Dockweiler
Beach State Park (Playa del Rey). Five
90-minute workshops were held every
day beginning at 9AM. ( See also Page
210.)

According to Myron F. Cox, beach
lifeguard chief, a third of the major
injuries at municipal beaches are caused
by surfing accidents. Because of this,
the workshop included instruction on
beach rules and how to safely operate
a surfboard in water. The safety pro-
gram stressed correct procedure on
carrying the board, paddling, and take-
off on a wave. Both land-practice and
water demonstrations were utilized by
instructors. In addition, there was in-
struction on the growth and history of

surfing.

Big Firsts

AS New Jersey marks its three hun-
dredth birthday the state can View
with pride the recreation achievements
of Essex County which boasts a number
of “firsts.” The Essex County Park
Commission was the first in the nation
and Branch Brook Park was the coun-
try’s first county park. The first pub-
licly operated golf course in New Jersey
was in Essex County’s Weequahic Park.
The county’s Japanese cherry blossom
display is the largest in the country
(see cover of RECREATION, May 1963)
and the fall Chrysanthemum show dates
back to the turn of the century.

Monument Fountain Contest
M ONTREAL has launched a $25,000

competition for design of monu-
ments and fountains to beautify twenty
public spaces throughout the metropo-
lis. Organization of the contest was
entrusted to the parks department under

APRIL, 1964

a bylaw passed at a special session of
the city council. The contest is open to
every Canadian citizen and calls for
designs of monuments, fountains, and
other decorative elements in a water
setting that will honor some person
deceased connected with Montreal his-
tory by birth, work, or some event. No
single monument is to cost more than
$20,000 and a contestant may enter as
many designs as he wishes.

The project was suggested by a num-
ber of businessmen’s associations in
various parts of Montreal and these will
be represented on the contest committee.
Business enterprises are also being in-
vited to sponsor individual projects
once the designs have been selected.
Their generosity will be recognized with
bronze plaques on the monuments.

City in Flower

A FLOWER GARDEN competition for
its tenant groups of the New York

City Housing Authority was a huge

success last year and will be repeated.

Last year, when the event was held for

the first time, more than a thousand
tenants from 104 groups in sixty-six
developments entered the competition.
The event is open to such groups as
tenants9 associations, senior citizen
clubs, good neighbor clubs, Boy and
Girl Scouts, mothers’ clubs, and others.

Areas of approximately 250 to 300
square feet are made available to groups
in which to cultivate their gardens. A
panel of outstanding horticulturists will
judge the Winners on the basis of de-
sign, planting, and cultivation. This
year’s judging will take place during the
week of August 17 and the winners will
be announced the following week.

“Last year, competitors ranged in age
from six to seventy,” says William Reid,
authority chairman. “Many of the ten-
ants who competed had never before
enjoyed the pleasure of cultivating a
garden and we anticipate that many
more will join in this year.” Last year,
Mayor Robert Wagner honored winners
in a special City Hall ceremony. Sixteen
groups received trophies while twelve
others earned honorable mention cer-
tificates.

 

It's spring and the voices of park and recreation conferences are heard across
the land! Last year the New Jersey Recreation and Parks Society presented
the National Recreation Association with a check for $450, the proceeds from
the society's conference in Asbury Park. Seen above, left to right, Dick Rodda,
Teaneck, conference program chairman; Richard Westgate, NRA Middle At-
lantic District representative; Donald Joyce, Tenatly, society president (now
on NRA staff); and Frank Sabino, Plaintield, chairman of conference exhibits.

 

187

TO BETTER ADVANTAGE

 

 

MUTUAL
BENEFIT

 

Ed Johnson, Recreation Director, Pen-
dleton, Oregon.

', WHEN the Pen-
. :l dleton, Ore-
gon, Recreation
Department invited
seventy-one young-
sters from a nearby

Indian agency to
participate in its

  

summer program, it got more than it
bargained for. Pendleton, with a popu-
Elation of fifteen thousand, is known as
:the “Round-Up Capital of the World.”
It is located in the northeastern corner
-of the state and has a large Indian popu-
‘lation nearby at Mission where the
tUmatilla Indian Agency is located.

The program got its start when rep-
resentatives from the agency got in touch
with the city recreation director con-
«cerning the feasibility of including forty
to fifty Indian youngsters in the city’s
recreation program, on an experimental
'basis, to help the youngsters make better
use of their leisure time during the sum-
mer months. The two agency representa-
‘tives, Louis Breuninger and Alvin R.
Zephier, were then invited to attend the
March 1963 meeting of the Pendleton
Recreation and Parks Commission to
outline a possible program. Mr. Breun-
inger indicated that monies were avail-
able for transportation, meals, and su-
pervision of the boys and girls taking
part in the program. He also mentioned
that the agency would be willing to
purchase various sports equipment for
the recreation department in lieu of any
rillal'Lit'r- for admission to the swimming
pool. 'lha- commission extended an in-
vitation fur the Indian youngsters to

133

participate in the 1963 summer pro-
gram. The details were then to be
worked out between Mr. Zephier and
the recreation director.

The program lasted four weeks, from

June 17 through July 12, and was held

Monday through Friday from 10:00AM
to 4:00PM. Two supervisors provided

by the agency attended a two-day lead-
ers’ workshop in order to become fa-
miliar with the outlined summer pro-
gram and department policies.

At the April 1 meeting of the recre-
ation and parks commission, a progress
report was made outlining the plans for
the summer. A supplies list had been
made out, and the recreation depart-
ment was to receive equipment which
included fiberglass bows, arrows, bow-
strings, targets, stands, shooting tabs,
target faces, armguards, basketballs, in-
flating pump, checkers, chess, checker-
boards, dominoes, soccerballs, volley-
balls, footballs, tennis rackets, tennis
balls, and tennis nets. Not included in
the supplies drawn up prior to the open-
ing of the program, but later donated to
the recreation program, were softballs,
softball bats, badminton sets, and
croquet sets.

The program was highly beneficial
for both parties concerned. The recre-
ation department was in a position to
offer three or four additional activities
to the summer program thanks to the
excellent equipment provided by the
agency. On the other hand, many Indian
youngsters were given the opportunity
to come into Pendleton from the sur-
rounding areas to have fun in the com-
munity’s new fifty-meter, Olympic-size
swimming pool and also to take part in
a planned parks program.

Many other Indian youngsters par-
ticipated in the recreation program in
other areas of the city and were not
counted in this phase of the program.
These boys and girls live within the city

On

and surrounding area where transpor-
tation is not a problem and therefore
did not need special arrangements.

After Pendleton’s summer program
was in progress, word got around that
the activities were fun and additional
youngsters were interested in taking
part. Instead of the forty to fifty regis-
trations expected, seventy-one young-
sters from the Indian agency were in-
volved in Pendleton’s four-week sum-
mer program.

Areas in which seventy-one boys and
girls participated were Pioneer Park,
the high-school tennis courts, Memorial
Armory on rainy days, and the swim-
ming pool. Transportation was availa-
ble from the reservation to Pioneer
Park in the morning where attendance
was taken and activities were planned
for the day. The bus would then leave
and return at 4:00PM. The boys and
girls were then free to choose the activi-
ty and join the programs which were
already in progress at one of the four
areas previously mentioned. It took
approximately an hour and a half to
two hours to pick up the boys and girls
over a forty-five to fifty mile area.

Pioneer Park was chosen as the as-

sembly point and major activity area
for the following reasons: I
Transportation. It was located close
to the swimming pool so the boys and
girls could easily walk back and forth
between the two areas as they chose.
Leadership. The playground leader
was well acquainted with her responsi-
bilities, having been employed in that
area for four years, and was well liked
by all of the youngsters.
Attendance. An average of sixty-five
to seventy neighborhood boys and girls
attended playground activities at this
facility daily. The average daily attend-
ance of the Indian youngsters in this
phase of the program was thirty-five
out of seventy-one registered.

RECREATION

New ways of extendi.

D URINC the first two weeks, program-

ing consisted mostly of play-
ground events, arts and crafts, and rec-
reational swimming. The second two
weeks included such specialized pro-
grams as swim lessons, archery lessons,
and tennis instruction. The boys and
girls were tested for swimming abilities
prior to registration in the instruction
program and then placed in appropriate
sessions.

At the conclusion of the program, an
evaluation was sent to the Indian agen-
cy covering some of the points to be
improved upon for any program that
might take place in future years. No
incidents were recorded during the pro-
gram to mar the effectiveness. Both
agencies were definitely convinced the
experiment in a jointly sponsored rec-
reation program was so successful that
its continuance is almost a certainty in
the coming years. Pendleton is now
planning an expanded program for this
year. The Indian youngsters certainly
had an exciting summer, and Pendle-
ton welcomed the opportunity to accept
them into its program.

 

A MOWING
RESPONSIBILITY

 

William J. Pacifico, Director of Parks
and Recreation, Pico Rivera, California.

HE CITY COUN-

CIL in Pico Ri-
vera, a community
of fifty thousand in
Los Angeles Coun-
ty, is continuously
seeking ways to
keep the cost of
city government down and taxes from
going up. Four of the city’s parks are

 

APRIL, 1964

 

aygrounds and recreation services

located adjacent to local schools and
the council found that the city and the
school district were duplicating effort
by sending separate mowing crews to
the same location weekly. The city
crews mowed up to the property line in
the “middle” of the park and the school
crew finished the job. The taxpayers
were paying for two pieces of equip-
ment, two crews, and extra travel time
to do the job.

 

The city council and the school board
met to consider combining the mowing
responsibility. The farsightedness of
both resulted in the city undertaking
the mowing responsibility of all public
grounds within the city. The school
district is billed periodically for the ac-
tual time consumed for its portion of the
operation. The city’s five-gang mower
was ideal to handle the additional work-
load. Duplication of travel time, equip-
ment, and labor were eliminated.

In another instance, the city’s need
for a park site in a certain area was
satisfied by a joint-power agreement to
develop five acres of unused school land
for park purposes. The contract pro-
vided for a sharing of the development
cost and the school agreed to handle
grounds maintenance with district em-
ployes. The school maintenance crew
graded both properties, installed auto-
matic sprinklers throughout, and seeded
the grounds. Both agencies paid their
proportionate share of this develop-
ment, which resulted 1n considerable
savings.

Still another example where both
agencies cooperated for a local need

ADMINISTRATION

 

was when the school district allowed
a temporary classroom building of
eighteen hundred square feet, no long-
er needed for education purposes, to be
used for recreation. The building was
released to the city as a community rec-
reation building with each agency in-
vesting $2,000 for rehabilitation. A
portion of the schoolgrounds at this
same site was later developed by the
city as a children’s play area and a
small picnic area. In this venture, the
city saved the expense of a new build-
ing, and the surrounding community
gained another recreation facility.

Another cooperative venture between
the school district and the city is the
after-school and summer vacation pro-
grams on school playgrounds. At pres-
ent, the Pico Rivera Park and Recrea-
tion Department is responsible for the
staffing, supplies, supervision, payroll,
and program planning. The school dis—
trict pays for half the direct cost of
schoolgrounds. The school district also
turns the high-school swimming pool
over to the city during the summer
months for community recreation. As
most swim pools are normally not self-
sustaining, both agencies share the sum-
mertime losses or the revenues. Other
areas of city-school cooperation are the
rental of school buses by the city for
community recreation purposes, and the
use of the City Park Building for adult
education classes and many youth ed-
ucation programs.

Pico Rivera is a city with a strong
thirst for cooperation and economy, and
the city is fortunate in having a school
district with this same philosophy. Both
agencies have realized savings of mon-
ey, time, and labor through their con-
tinued effort to eliminate the duplica-
tion of services so prevalent in public
agencies today. Both city and school
district have the same goals: “A better
citizen in today’s world. H

189

  
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
    
   
  
   
    

BUILL

Playground,
Sports and
Recreation
Equipment

Quality construction...
Engineered for Safety,
Performance and Low-
est Maintenance.

Creative products...
Designed for happy
playtime activity and
leisure.

Never
a compromise
with quality when

YOU BUY BURKE

write for 1963 catalog

the I. E. BURKE

company

Fond Du Lac,
\ Wisconsin

Bun/rt ‘\
35%

    
 

New Brunswick.
New Jersey

   

190 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

BURKE
BETTER

 

 

DEDICATED
TO YOUTH

 

David L. Dugcm, President, Athens,
Georgia Youth Service Council.

A NUMBER of

agencies and
organizations are
dedicated to serv-
ing the youth of
Athens, a northeast
Georgia communi-
ty of forty thou-
sand. In addition to its recreation and
parks department, Athens has a YMCA,
one of the oldest established in this
part of the country; a YWCA; a chap-
ter of the Boys Club of America; and
active Boy Scout and Girl Scout groups.
Athens is also the home of the Univer-
sity of Georgia with nearly ten thou-
sand students. However, the recreation
and parks department found there was
not much communication among the
leadership of these agencies. Here were
people dedicating their lives to the
youth of their community, yet having
little or nothing to do with others who
had the same professional dedication,
but operated under a number of differ-

ent banners.

Early in 1963, the recreation and
parks department invited the directors
of these groups to a round-table discus-
sion. Along with the leaders of the
aforementioned organizations, invita-
tions were also extended to the Clarke
County Board of Education’s adminis-
trative staff, the Athens Ministerial As-
sociation, and the PTA President’s
Council. All accepted. The initial get-
together was a dinner meeting hosted
by the Athens Recreation and Parks
Department. At this first session, it
was decided to form an organization
and conduct monthly sessions. The
group chose the Athens Youth Service

Council for its name.

At the following session it was de-
cided to find out how youngsters in
junior and senior high schools Spent
their leisure hours in organized activi-
ties. Through the cooperation of the
school system and the PTA, a survey

was conducted in the public schools.
The high number of students in 4-H

work led the council to invite the coun-
ty agent into the youth service group.
Membership on the Youth Service
Council was held to ten leaders who had
accessibility to virtually every young-
ster in town. The next step was to set
up objectives, Many recommendations
were offered with the following being
accepted:
0 Determine the number of school
children taking part in organized
leisure-time activities.
0 Locate areas which have generally
weak participation and determine cause.
0 Establish code of ethics for youth
leaders.
0 Establish or recommend code of
ethics for parents.
0 Constantly evaluate organized pro-
grams in operation.
0 Develop an awareness of the pro-
grams of the various agencies in order
to help place children in an environ-
ment most satisfactory to their well-
being.
0 Meet with groups, in whole or in part,

 

to discuss youth, youth programs, and
youth agencies.

0 Encourage, sustain, or deve10p moral
values among youth of our community.
0 Inquire, investigate, and make known
the problems of youth unique in our
area.

0 Develop public awareness of youth
problems which might be alleviated in
organized programs.

0 Coordinate major programs among
organizations.

0 Develop public awareness of youth
activities.

0 Give recognition to deserving indi-
viduals and agencies.

The amount of information ex-
changed at council meetings and the co-
operation and coordination among the
groups has been immeasurable. Com-
munication and understanding have
kept the Youth Service Council strong,
and the youth of Athens are the richer
from its efforts.

RECREATION

 

LEADERSHIP BY
ASSOCIATION

 

George Kormos, Director of Recrea-
tion, Sudbury, Ontario.

M ANY thousands

of recreation
dollars are saved in
Sudbury, Ontario,
each year through

a planned program
of population parti-

 

cipation in the op-
eration and maintenance of the city’s
forty-seven recreation areas. In 1961,
the Sudbury Recreation Committee, a
body of seven appointed citizens work-
ing directly under the city council, set
down a policy that no playground area
would receive recreation services un-
less a playground association is formed
and an agreement signed with the com-
mittee. The agreement is an undertak-
ing by the playground association to
provide leadership and assistance in
maintaining the playground and play-
ground programs; in other words, the
recreation committee helps those neigh-
borhoods that help themselves.

The policy has produced results. At
the present time, there are twenty-nine
active playground associations in oper-
ation. They represent some six thou-
sand citizen members who pay an an-
nual family membership fee of one
dollar. When the idea was first pro-
posed thene were some reservations
as to the reaction it might bring. There
were no complaints; in fact, at a meet-
ing of association leaders, support for
the policy was unanimous. When Sud-
bury’s official plan was adopted by the
council, it set out thirty-eight neigh-
borhoods in the city, each with play-
ground facilities. The recreation com-
mittee is following the plan and will
recognize one playground association
from each. Future development of the
city may see more than one playground
operated by each association.

Since the original policy was estab-
lished it has been extended to make
services and facilities available to a
tennis club, archery club, canoe club,
and a little theater guild, in return for
the same considerations. It has en-

APRIL, 1964

Volunteers at work. Sudbury's
Churchill Playground fieldh0use
gets a new look via a paint iob.

couraged more interest and assistance
from service clubs. The Sudbury Riche-
lieu Club, for example, has embarked
on a five-year program of purchasing
$4,000 worth of playground equipment
annually. '

When the Ontario Municipal Board
joined together the city of Sudbury, the
township of McKim and the west half of
the township of Neelon on January 1,
1960, the new city found itself with a
population of seventy-eight thousand
people living in some fifty-two square
miles. While this presented problems
for all departments of civic government,
the integration of recreation facilities
was a large one for the recreation com-
mittee. The committee found itself with
twenty-one more playgrounds, a staff

of four, and a budget of $98,000.

In 1961 the staff was increased to six,
and city council allotted $115,000 to
operate the recreation department; in
1962, it allotted $130,000. The task
of providing adequate services for so
many playgrounds over such a large
area left the committee with little al-
ternative but to set out drastic policies.
The city would have to double its pres-
ent recreation budget for sufficient staff
to provide the basic needs handled by
the playground association. To provide
all ,_of the services rendered by these
volunteers would mean a budget three

times as large.

The operation of Sudbury’s thirty
year-round playgrounds is made pos-
sible only through the work provided
by the playground associations. Some
misconceptions persist about the oper-
ation of the Sudbury playground associ-
ations. The recreation department pro-

 

vides only the basic facilities and ma-
terials necessary to operate. lt is the
responsibility of parents in the associa-
tions to conduct the actual program.
The fact that Sudbury does have so
many active associations rather alters
the financial situation of the Operation
of its playgrounds. For example, the

recreation budget during 1962 totalled
$130,000; the average spent by each
association ranged between $600 and
$1,400 for the operation of its program.
This reflects an immediate saving of

some $25,000 to $35,000 on the Opera-
tion of playgrounds. Of course, this
is not a true picture of the whole con-
tribution by the volunteer associations.
In addition, they erect buildings, main-
tain grounds, coach and manage teams,
and organize many activities for the
youngsters. Without the assistance of
the four thousand to five thousand par-
ents who from time to time through the
year provide their time and effort the

program contained would have to be
drastically reduced. #

o For other examples of community
action to develop and expand recrea-
tion programs and facilities see “A
Third Dimension," Recreation, June
1963; “Starting from Scratch," April
1963; 'fGetting Community Support for
a Master Park Plan," December 1962,-
"Youth Serves the Community," No-
vember 1962; “Citizen Action Achieves
Results,” February 1961; “In-Service
Training for Volunteers," October
1961; “Teens in Training," December
1961 ,- “A Community Cooperative Proi-
ect," January 1960,- “Growth of a
Weed Patch,” June 1960,- “A Deeper
Look at Volunteers," October 1960,-

"Teenage Motives," November 1960.
———Ed.

191

Our competitor has been
in business 40 years!

 

Our competitor pioneered an idea that cut costs and made

* money for railroad and bus stations, by eliminating their
B   U G H 8 high cost manually-operated checking counters and replac-
 ing them with coin-operated lockers—which our competitor

purchased from others, and, as a locker landlord, rented to

WITH COIN-OPERATED LOCKS the stations .. . and lately, as a middleman, sold to others.
We salute our competitor as top man on the totem

. Never before locks protectively pole—when it comes to operating rental lockers as a con-

mounted in the locker doors with money cess'm‘a'm'

conductor‘to cash*boxes in separate WHERE DOES THAT LEAVE us?

channel o .
It doesn't touch us. We are a manufacturer, not a concessmn-

O quickly changeable for alternating pe- H aire or a middleman-supplier of orphan lockers. We have
riods of non.coin free service or pay-as- ._ built and sold in a dozen years more coin-Operated lockers

use service .Hwith any coin up to 3 than our competitor has bought in 40 years.
quarter and variable and multiple coins Our research revolutionized the locker business with

- the country’s first stainless steel lockers, then produced
for fees Up to 75 cents’ or any fee With the first lockers ever made available to the recreation in-

t°ken dustry—an act that changed the look of bathhouses every-

. or for coin refund where, reduced their initial cost, and turned checking loss
operations into profitable ones.

0 Lost key lock cylinders, quickly re- . They were the finest lockers and locks ever built—copied

movable and replaceable ithout remov- but never equaled. If there was ever a time when a product

ing coin-operated mechanism ' could have rested on its laurels—this was it'. But. . .

0 Short of vandalism, impossible to op- _ “MES AND NEEDS CHANGE

erate with ferrous slu s . . .
g Forward looking recreational professmnals demanded more

0 or to freewheel ' security, easier operation, less cost, more functionability.
_ , And those with plans on the boards now for completely
. 0" to take a key Within” "33va money automated bathhouses demanded lockers that would collect

both checking and entrance or use fees.

Now we’ve supplied their demands. At a cost of sixty
0 or to operate with wrong size coins . . , thousand research dollars, the it-can't-be-done-because-it's-
and tough enough to drop on concrete. never‘been'done-has been done-

This is why we say if you’re thinking of buying coin-
operated lockers LOOK OUT. For you could end up with
equipment as obsolete as a dodo.' Read the Breakthrough
summary in the panel at the left, then let us prove it.
Write . . .

0 or to lock while the door is open

“Patents pending; name copyrighted

FINEST NAME /N THE WORLD OF LOCKERS
Distinguished product of Tire lerb/e Company

"~ W or writing '0 our advertisers please mention RECREATION. RECREAT'”\

RESEARCH BRIEFS

 

Tort Liability

A STUDY of tort liability of Pennsylvania municipalities
for public park and recreation services was conducted
in 1960 by Joseph John Birmingham in partial fulfillment
of the requirements for a master’s degree at Pennsylvania
State University. Although his study was confined primarily
to the State of Pennsylvania and the degree of tort liability
varies from state to state, a number of the conclusions of
general interest follow:

0 Statutory liability has not been imposed directly on mu-
nicipalities in Pennsylvania for public park or recreation
services.

0 Municipalities have the authority to expend public funds
to insure against liability under specific and broad legisla-
tive powers.

0 No statute has been enacted which absolves municipalities
of liability for public park or recreation services.

0 Public park and recreation services in Pennsylvania are
classified by the courts as a proprietary function of muni-
cipal government. The municipality, therefore, may be held
liable in damages for negligence to the same extent and in
the same manner as private corporations or natural persons.
Counties and townships, when providing these services, may
be performing a governmental function with a greater de-
gree of immunity from liability.

0 Fees and charges for public park or recreation services
do not affect the nature of the function as these services are
in the proprietary category.

0 A breach of duty in permitting dangerous or unwarranted
conditions to exist, which result in injuries to a person or his
property, may constitute negligence or nuisance.

o Municipalities providing public park and recreation serv-
ices at areas and facilities under the urisdiction of school
districts, may be held liable in damages for negligence if
the areas or facilities are under the exclusive control and
supervision of the municipality at the time the injury occurs.
0 When a municipality and school district jointly provide
supervision at such areas or facilities during the time an
injury occurs, the municipality may be held liable in dam-
ages for negligence, providing the proximate cause of the
injury is on the part of the municipality’s employee.

0 Members of park or recreation boards or commissions
and officers of park or recreation departments are not per-
sonally or individually liable for the negligent acts of the
boards, commissions, or departments. Executives or other
employees share this same immunity from liability.

0 The results of the questionnaire study indicate fifty per-
cent of the municipalities were insured against public liabil-
ity for public park or recreation services.

0 Less than fourteen percent of the departments carried ac-
cident insurance for participants in recreation activities.

0 After-school and evening activities of approximately
thirty-two percent of the departments were included in the
accident insurance plans offered to the children of the local

APRIL, 1964

school district. Summer playground activities in less than
twenty-three percent of the departments were included in
this same plan.

The report ends with the following comment: The find-
ings indicate that exposure to tort liability is very broad in
Pennsylvania for public park and recreation services. Mu-
nicipalities were held liable for negligence or nuisance in
many different situations and circumstances. However, it
seems advisable that park and recreation administrators con-
sult with the municipal attorney on all matters pertaining to
tort liability. Departments’ procedures and policies estab-
lished under the guidance of the municipal attorney and car-
ried out by well-trained and competent administrators, lead-
ers, and other personnel can do much to prevent possible
lawsuits involving the liability of the municipality.

National Parks Research

A COMMITTEE of the National Academy of Sciences, ap-

pointed at the request of the US. Secretary of the In-
terior, was set up in 1962 to study the natural history re-
search needs and opportunities in the National Park Service,
in particular those of the national parks. Its report, with
recommendations for an expanded program of natural his-
tory research on the part of the National Park Service, has
been published recently. It gives some of the historical as-
pects of the establishment of national parks and discusses
the objectives or purposes of the National Park Service in
the light of the origin of the national parks and the various
acts of Congress which deal with them. The conclusion is
reached that the service should first strive “to preserve and
conserve the national parks with due consideration for the
enjoyment by their owners—the pe0ple of the United States
—of the esthetic, Spiritual, inspirational, educational, and
scientific values which are inherent in natural wonders. The
service should be concerned with the preservation of nature,
the maintenance of natural conditions, and the avoidance
of artificiality.”

The report stresses the importance of National Park Serv-
ice research to the responsibility of administering the na-
tional parks “in accordance with the purposes for which
they are or may be set aside by specific acts of Congress.

“Research by the National Park Service has lacked con-
tinuity, coordination, and depth. It has been marked by
expediency rather than by‘long-term considerations.” Spe-
cific examples are cited of problems and mismanagement
arising out of lack of basic research, or lack of consultation
with the research staff, and particular attention is given the
precarious condition of Everglades National Park and the
big trees in California. “It is inconceivable that‘property
so unique and valuable, used by such a large number of
people, and regarded internationally as one of the finest
examples of our national spirit should not be provided with
adequately competent research scientists in natural history

Continued on Page 208

193

The Park and Recreation
ADMINISTRATOR

What quality of leadership must he offer today?

Garrett G. Eppley

TODAY, the park and recreation pro-

fession faces a challenge unmatched
by that besetting any profession in the
history of mankind. It is directly con-
cerned with the use that the American
people make of their leisure. Seven
years ago the editors of Holiday maga-
zine made this statement: “We now
have the means, money, and products by which to achieve
the fullest, richest life ever known to mankind, and we now
have unprecedented time of our own, which might be the
greatest gift of all. What we do with that gift will decide the
quality, and the place in history, of American civilization.”

 

In trying to envision life in America by the year 2000,
when people will have two and a half times as much leisure
as they have work, one wonders whether the scales will tip
towards a misuse of leisure or toward its constructive use.
The success of the recreation profession in meeting its chal-
lenge will depend largely on the quality of its leadership,
and the administrator is the key person in this leadership.
What is his image to his employes——to his community?

What should it be?

The administrator should believe in his work and his
profession. He should be dedicated, creative, imaginative,
and personable. He should like people and should be demo-
cratic, fair, and businesslike in the operation of his depart-
ment. His duties cannot be confined to his local community.
He has an obligation to the profession which made his career
possible. He should be active in state and national profes-
sional associations. He should cooperate with others in
securing desirable state and federal legislation and in pre-
venting bad legislation. He should work with institutions of
higher learning in recruiting potential leaders for the pro-
fession and in maintaining high standards of professional
preparation. He should encourage meaningful research,
both inside and outside his community. A portion of his
time should be available to various individuals, organiza-
tions, and agencies who seek his professional guidance. He
may very well be active in service club and church activities.
He will need a qualified assistant.

The administrator should be responsible for the prepara-
tion of a list of department objectives and the procedures
for effecting each objective. These objectives and procedures
might be supplemented by objectives_and procedures for
such functions as supervised playgrounds, community cen-

-———v__..__.rv_____

DR. EPPI.I:;Y is professor of recreation at Indiana University.

 

104

ters, maintenance, fees and charges, sports, music, arts and
crafts, et cetera. The administrator must have a long-range
plan of area acquisition, facility development, and program
extension.

THE PROFESSIONAL preparation of the administrator

should be commensurate with his responsibilities. It
will be at least equal to that of the administrators in related
professions. The shortage of personnel in the recreation pro-
fession does not justify a lowering of standards for the per-
sonnel. Although there is a shortage of teachers in the field
of education, yet standards for professional preparation of
the teachers are constantly being raised. Can you find an
administrator who believes his position requires less ability
than that required of administrators in related professions?
The registration plan in Indiana requires a master’s degree
for the administrator with a minimum of one degree in rec-
reation. Indiana’s full-time administrators on the average
meet this qualification.

The administrator should surround himself with an able
staff. Certain inherited situations or regulations may make
this difiicult. The administrator should work toward cor-
recting such situations. Realizing that the public tends to
judge an entire organization and its operation by that por-
tion with which it comes in contact, many administrators
have initiated inservice training programs in public rela-
tions involving all employes and volunteer workers in the
department. The way a person answers .the telephone or
receives a visitor in the office, the appearance of the office,
the maintenance of areas and facilities, the quality of lead-
ership and programs, the comments of employes on or off
the job, and the type of service at the concession stands can
be instrumental in winning support for the department and
its program. A failure in any of these categories can lose
vital support for the entire program. The able administrator
will make a list of his many publics and make periodic
checks as to whether he and his department have good re-
lations with each of them.

Each new employe should be presented with a description
of his job. He should be oriented in the philosophy, history,
objectives, policies, and practices of the department. He
should be familiar with his role in the organization, the role
of his division and each of the other divisions, the role of
the department in the community, and the roles of the re-
lated agencies in the community.

The administrator should encourage the professional
growth of his employes. A portion of the staff meetings

RECREATION

should be devoted to pertinent literature, recreation trends,
and issues facing the profession. Staff members should be
encouraged to enroll in workshOps and to take advanced
academic work with at least a portion of their expenses paid
by the department. Sabbatical leaves should be provided
those staff members who wish to work for higher degrees.
The Milwaukee Department of Municipal Recreation has
such a policy. ‘

THE ADMINISTRATOR and his staff need to enlist the co-
operation of the lay citizens of the community. As
budgets increase and departments grow, there is a tendency
on the part of some administrators to omit the possible
assistance that might be gained from the lay citizen. Volun-
teer service is an important recreation to the volunteer. A
lay citizen who has a role to play in the department’s func-
tions becomes an active supporter of those functions. As the
leisure of working people increases, many of them will be-
come authorities in their particular hobby. An administra-
tor can expand department programs and services by uti-
lizing the knowledge, skills, talents, and interests of lay
citizens. Among these lay citizens are the large group of
retired people. Their utilization in service projects and de-
partmental programs can be of great therapeutic value to
them.

Our choreless youth leaders need responsibilities. The
playground and community-center leader can delegate re-
sponsibilities to their activity participants. This experience
and the experience youth can gain through work-recreation
programs create in them a respect for property and a favor-
able attitude towards community service. They will be
the leaders of tomorrow. The professional recreation leader
of the future may not perform many direct leadership func-
tions. He may very well be the trainer and supervisor of the
persons he recruits from his recreation activities, his neigh-
borhood, and his community.

The administrator should have a flair for Showmanship—
promoting some activities or providing some facilities which
have great publicity value, something that the local citizens
take pride in showing or talking about to Visitors. Such
are the rock gardens of Vancouver, British Columbia; the
Rosarin Garden and amateur TV programs in Portland,
Oregon; Oakland’s Children’s Fairyland, its memorial gar-
den—with rose bushes serving as memorials to civic leaders,
its creative architecture in park structures, and its slogan:
a City of Beauty; Seattle’s Japanese Gardens; Los Angeles’
Center for the Performing Arts; Colorado Springs’ play-
grounds with a theme; the glass-panel recreation centers in
Dallas; the beautiful lake parks in Minneapolis; Milwau-
kee’s nature conservatory center; Chicago’s large multiple-
use recreation buildings; the Lincoln clubhouse and ice-
skating center in Columbus, Indiana; the children’s gardens
in Bloomington, Indiana; the natural landscape setting of
the Detroit Zoo; the illuminated park in the Canadian
Niagara Park District; the Robin Hood Dell Amphitheater
and the creative playground equipment in Philadelphia;
and Montreal’s new sports center. Vision, imagination, and
some money made these facilities and programs possible.

Continued on Page 208

APRIL. 1964

V 'TI‘III-A-II-Ros'.‘W¢u-“v' -.~ rm“:

  

Nothing Less Than

 The Best Equipment
 Is Good Enough-

23> For The Finest,
Strongest, Safest
' and Most Durable

SPECIFY

 

 

APPROVED

PARK and PICNIC,
P LAYG R0 U N D

AND SWIMMING
POOL EQUIPMENT

Since 1911 the recognized standard of
exceiience in construction and safety.
You are sure of the best from American.

AMERICAN

PLAYGROUND DEVICE CO.

1k COMPLETE

LITERATURE

maiied promptiy
on your request.

ANDERSON. INDIANA. U. S. A.

WORLD'S LARGEST MANUFACTURERS OF FINE
PARK. PICNIC. PLAYGROUND. SWIMMING
POOL AND DRESSING ROOM EQUIPMENT

Remember?

NAIIUNAIREBREAIIIN “WITHIN 3

National Recreation Month

Plan Now . . .

Use It As A Showcase
For All Your Recreation Projects

For information write .'

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
8 W. 8th St., N.Y.. N.Y. IOOII

: gMERICAN

   
     
 
     
      

 

 

195

TAKE
ME TO
YOUR
LEADER

Are you
projecting the image

of a sloppy job?

 

1‘)!»

 

IDENTIFICATION

 

Ernest Drapela

“Who is the person in charge of this
park?”

“Please tell me which one of those
persons is the recreation leader.”

HAVE YOU HEARD these or similar
comments in your community?
What can be done to improve this lack
of identification? A group of five full-
time recreation staff members with the
Phoenix, Arizona, Parks and Recrea-
tion Department decided to do some-
thing about this situation.

Since the department has no provi-
sions for the acquiring or dispensing
(or to enforce the wearing) of clothing
for its employes, this was a “private”
venture although department sanction
was to be requested. After discussing
the pros and cons of the subject, the
group decided to adopt some type of
upper-garment attire and identifying
emblem to be worn strictly on a volun-
tary basis by any persons employed by
the department’s recreation division.
Since assignments of recreation leaders
vary with the area and with the person
involved (male or female; young or
old), it is important to keep in mind
the need for a good selection of gar-
ments and provide for summer through
winter wear. Durable, yet attractive,
jackets, shirts, blouses, and sweatshirts
are the essential items and it is recom-
mended that none of these items be
worn to luncheons, dinners, et cetera, if
the employe goes as a department rep-
resentative, since conventional dress
apparel is more desirable in these in-
stances. A quality, medium to high-
priced line of nonathletic goods was
recommended.

White was selected as the color for
the garments for three reasons: (I) it
looks the sharpest when clean; (2) it is
the coolest color, an important factor
when working under the Arizona sun
ta black or dark color might be more
desirable in a northern climate); and
f 3) it goes well with any color skirt,
slacks. coat. hat, et cetera.

The design to use was a natural: the
Phoenix bird, which would signify the
city-employelafiiliation (this symbol is
already used by the city for vehicles,
stationery, et cetera). Under the bird,
in plain, easy-to-read block letters
would be R-E-C-R-E-A-T-I-O-N, signi-
fying the recreation division of the
parks and recreation department.

The color selected for the design is
dark green to lend the image of the
park and recreation tie-in. The size of
the design is a dignified three inches
across so that it is not gaudy and does
not project a sports team image. Fi-
nally, the garments were silk screened
on the upper left part of the chest
(above the pocket if there is one on the
garment). Flocking was an additional
cost and was not deemed necessary. A
sewed-on or stitched-in design is not
recommended as it can be transferred
to old T-shirts, caps, et cetera, which
may not be in the best interest of other
staff members. An idea of the desired
design was given to the department
arts-and-craft specialist who made one
to the specifications given.

Sales representatives for two leading
lines of clothing goods responded fa-
vorably to loaning samples of their
lines for the group’s inspection. The
prices quoted on the goods were such
that, even with the cost of the silk
screening, there would be an appreci-
able amount saved by each individual.
Even though the transaction would be
“private” there would be no profit
made by any individual, other than the
salesman, so that the employe would
get the benefit of the savings. A wide-
enough selection of garments is needed
to suit most tastes; however, if the se-
lection is too wide the purpose can be
lost through lack of similarity. (It is
important to be aware that small de-
tails, such as pockets or no pockets.
short or long zippers, short or long
sleeves, have an effect on the price of
the garments.)

At the next recreation-division staff
meeting the samples were displayed and
orders were taken for those interested.
Up to four weeks were allowed for de-
livery of the garments; the silk screen-

RECREATION

ing was then done locally. Provisions
have been made to reorder goods at
anytime for both old and new employes.

WITH THE GROUNDWORK thus estab-
lished the group was able to chal-
lenge the three main disadvantages
usually raised when such a project
comes up for consideration:
0 It would criticize present wear of
recreation leaders. Since the idea was
conceived and supported by the leaders
themselves, this criticism was not valid;
also it was strictly voluntary.
o It destroys individualism. Resticting
the apparel to only upper garments
leaves plenty of room for individualism
in clothing preferences. A good selec-
tion of garments also refutes this criti-
cism.
o Regimentation. This may be answered
in the same way as the above point.
The advantages of the project are
many and significant:
Status. There is a sense of pride and
professionalism on the part of the lead-
ers in their occupation.
Appearance. Properly worn garments
with a symbol affixed look neat.
Wear and Tear. Everyday clothing
looks nice but takes quite a beating.
Cost. As mentioned previously, the
garments were purchased at less than
retail prices.
Identity. Persons visiting parks or
playgrounds can easily identify a per-
son employed there. Recreation leaders
feel an esprit de corps.
Image. It creates a lasting impression
upon minds of some individuals in their
concept of a recreation leader.
Discipline. The very presence of such
attire lessens potential discipline prob-
lems.
Tax Deduction. Garments purchased
for employment that display a symbol
of the employment are tax deductible.
Prestige. The garment lends an aura
of distinction to the recreation leader;
the leader is more apt to avoid any un-
wise actions in consideration of his
reputation.
These garments have been very p0pu-
lar among Phoenix’s part-time workers,
more popular among the younger em-

APRIL, 1964

a.

ployes than the older. Women workers
order more and a wider range of gar-
ments in accordance with their discrim-
inating tastes. Approximately three-
fourths of the recreation staff, below the
supervisory level, now have at least one
garment. The initial order was for forty
garments and there have since been
reorders. The garments have not been
worn long enough to assess their long-
range value, but the leaders express
pleasure in having them and it seems
to put a little more zest in their ob.—
MR. DRAPELA is a recreation supervisor
for the Phoenix, Arizona, Parks and
Recreation Department.

 

ARE YOU A
SPORT SHIRT
PROFE SSIONAL ?

 

James A. Peterson

ARE your sport shirts and sneakers
showing? How do you dress when
attending meetings and public events?
Have you ever worn a sport shirt to
work and been embarrassed when called
to an important luncheon to find that
you are the only one without coat and
tie?

Do “clothes make the man” as cloth-
ing manufacturers would have us be-
lieve? Our friendly philosophers and
writers of wit in years gone by give us
little solace. R. Greene said, “The hood
makes not the monk, nor the apparel
the man,” and Ben Franklin countered
with “Eat to please yourself, but dress
to please others.” And someone came
up with this little ditty, “An ape’s an
ape, a varlet’s a varlet, though they be
clad in silk and scarlet.” To balance
these profound statements, we find that
Trollope said, “He is the best dressed
whose dress no one observes.”

There is a correlation between the
way we, as recreation and park profes-
sionals, dress and the “image” the pub-
lic has of our office. We talk a great

deal, among ourselves at least, about
being “professionals.” We contend that
there already exists an advanced body
of knowledge that requires of us speci-
fic training and experience in order to
provide adequate recreation and park
services for communities, agencies, in-
dustries, churches, private clubs, and
ad infinitum. This contention is sup-
ported by the more than sixty colleges
and universities offering major cur-
ricula in the various specialities of our
profession.

HOW CAN wearing a shirt and tie
help our profession accomplish
what we would like it to do in our life-
time? In a way, I am making a pitch
for conformity, a conformity in dress
that will help identify us as a group
respected for its knowledge and com-
petency. True, clothes alone will not
make you respected or even well thought
of, for some of the very best extor-
tionists, arsonists. and criminals of all
kinds were well dressed. However. if
you are not aware of what you and your
staff look like in public, you are handi-
capping your ability to do an effective
job. Just as a football uniform will make
a player feel like part of the team, ap—
pr0priate dress for all your staff mem-
bers will help make them part of the
recreation and park team.

How far down the line of authority
should this business of appromiate
dress go? Top men only. supervisors.
recreation leaders. maintenance crew?
Obviously, it must extend through the
supervisory levels. However, in a DI'O-
fession where we deal with peonle at
all levels of supervision. we could help
our cause immeasurably by making
available to those under the suoervisory
level an adequate uniform for their
work.

Of course, some departments already
do this in varying degrees. When you
think of a ranger naturalist for exam-
ple, you invariably couiure up a picture
of an extremely knowledgeable, clean-
shaven, well-dressed man ready to serve
the public. Is it impossible for us to
ask for and demand that all emloyes

107

Anybody can play
with the
wonderful games
for all age groups
from

WOBLD WIDE GADIES
Delaware, Ohio

And l know it’s true . . .
my parents.

Warren and Mary Lea Bailey.
manufacture them!

Write for free catalog

 

GET THE GUYS
TO VOCALIZE

WITH
NATIONAL'S DANDY

“SING-ALONG SONG SLIDES”!!

Meetings that begin or end with sing-along sessions
are successful meetings! Watch your gang warm up
fast with a lusty group sing! Send for National's

free catalog of all-time hit songs. available in slide
form for as low as 50c a tune!

Need a projector? Let us know . . . we’ll save you
real dough! Write today to:

NATIONAL STUDIOS. INC.
42 West 48th Street, N. v. as. N. v.

 

  
  

Ti "  .
EROSHYWORLD. Ind.
Law FACTORY-DIRECT PRICES

 SAliSPEOPLE WAN'IED IO

"M  smoun racemes wumg.

SA“ in your: cm ran m-
 “ FORMA‘IION want Atriu-
' Fan mum" HON PRESIDEN‘I.

Dept: RCR'ISIO mum. Isiah, Hedda 13010

    

    
   

        

~ wuss“. mace-c. ' ;\

   
             
   

198

 

create such an impression? I know of
several industries whose employes are
never seen in public yet who wear clean
uniforms daily. Apparently these com-
panies have found them advantageous,
with salutory effect on morale, effici-
ency, and safety. Those of us in public
service can learn a lot from private
industry. We do our departments an in-
justice when we permit our staffs to be
seen in anything except appropriate
dress for the job they are doing.

WHAT IS APPROPRIATE dress for the
variety of positions found in the
recreation and park field? Clothes, like
music, find some reason for existence
in mores, tradition, and customs. What
may be perfectly acceptable dress in the
Southwest may not be so in the North-
west. With this in mind I offer the
following suggestions.

Administrators through superviso-
ry level. Shirt, tie, coat in most in-

stances. The short-sleeve shirt with tie
seems acceptable in warmer climates
and during the summer in cooler areas.
Specialists in dance, crafts, et cet-
era. Practically all specialists have a
dress appropriate to their speciality
such as leotards and smocks. However,
when these same people leave the gym
and the classroom, they should dress as
the supervisor above.

Maintenance, custodians, caretak-
ers. A simple uniform of work slacks
and shirt, possibly decorated with the
department emblem, would do wonders
for these workers.

De Cervantes said, “Naked came we
into the world, and naked must we de-
part from it.” But in the meantime, let’s
dress it up!-—MR. PETERSON is super-
intendent of recreation in Evansville,
Indiana.

0 For further material on uniforms and

attire, see “Uniform Outfits for Lead-
ers" by Virginia Musselman, Recrea-

tion, April l960.——-Ed.

 

PRIZE WINNERS IN PLAYGROUND
ESSAY CONTEST

College students write of their summer experience

Summer playground leaders in the
Metropolitan Park District, Tacoma,
Washington, told about their exciting
and profitable experience in essays sub-
mitted in a district contest.

First prize of
$10.00 went to
Twenty - year - old
Carolyn Rollefson,
a Stanford Univer-
sity student. She
wrote: “To some
adults, the word
‘play’ means idleness. Children, how-
ever, treat play with respect. They for-
mally ring a doorbell to ask, ‘Can John-
ny come out to play?’ They recognize
play as a basic necessity and pleasure

of life.

“As a summer playground leader,
this wholehearted interest in play con-
stantly delights me. Children are eager
to learn new games and skills because
they have fun. I am eager to teach
them because such activities instill
ideals of good sportsmanship, as well
as practice in getting along with others.
Summer play is the child’s full-time oc-

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

cupation, recreation, and education.
Thus, the playground leader occupies a
central position in the child’s life. A
leader’s good influence can last a life-
time.”

Second prize Of
$5.00 went to eigh-
teen-year-Old Lyn-
da Hofstad, a stu-
dent at Washington
State University in

Pullman. She

wrote: “For an ex-
citing and profitable summer vacation,

I have been a playground leader at one
of the local public parks. The transfer
from an adult world at the state univer-
sity to a children’s world in a small sec-

 

tion Of my hometown is a satisfying
change. With the enthusiasm and cre-
ativeness of each child, I was challenged
to provide him with activities that
would both broaden his scope Of knowl-
edge and especially ensure a recreative
visit to the playground. I was rewarded
by seeing the happiness and growth in
skills in the children.”

RECREATION

! ARTS e5 CRAFTS CORNER

 

KEEP CREATIVITY ALIVE

ON’T cheat children of their creative birthright! It is
D important for leaders to understand how to foster the
creative process in very young children. The main problem
in this regard is grownum! It seems that on viewing the
child’s creative puppet or other art Work, the leader fre-
quently asks, “What is it?” If a child’s art is going to be
named, it should come from him voluntarily. Another point
is that the leader should not correct, admonish, or say “Do
it this way.” It is best in drawing, coloring, or painting,
to leave the child, as much as possible, to his own devices,
and, when finished, not confuse the issue with exaggerated
praise. When coloring mimeographed birds or flowers,
which are part of a nature project, correct colors should be
used for identification purposes for this is something apart
from the creative process under discussion.

Playground leaders “lead” in the creative phase of their
work by showing interest and providing a variety of mate-
rials not always found at school or at home. This could
include both creative and mimeographed puppets. In re-
gard to coloring within lines, as in a mimeographed puppet,
some authorities feel that this in dangerous to a child’s cre-
ative development. This is not necessarily so, IF in addi-
tion, the child has plenty of Opportunity to draw “his own
way” on large pieces of paper. This early scribbling, draw-
ing, and coloring forms the foundation for a mature per-
son’s taste, and, if denied this early free experimentation,
there will be no basis later on which to build his taste.

An interesting point is that a young child’s drawing is
not art but reality. He is portraying the world as he sees
it. What he enjoys is the rhythmic activity, and, so for this
age, drawing is a motor experience. Colors for the very
young should be a treat and their lovely line drawings should
not be drowned in color; so, when drawing, encourage them
to use one color or pen or pencil. This does not apply to
coloring within lines. If thoughtful leaders, parents, and
teachers do not provide the right opportunities, the ma-
chines of our age, along with the dreamlike quality of movies
and TV, can wither away creativity in our children.—
VIRGINIA CLARK, Supervisor of Drama, Puppetry, Music,
Long Beach, California.

ARTYFACTS

o If a glue, such as Elmer’s, is used for tissue-paper mosaic,
use half glue and half water. Stir thoroughly. This keeps
the glue from drying too fast and still adheres well.—-—CARITA
BUNNELL, Assistant Recreation Director, Pocatello, Idaho.

0 Steel squares and other engraved metal rules often be-
come difficult to read as they get used and worn. For easier
reading, rub a crayon across the markings. Select one in
a contrasting color. Then wipe off with a flat pad of cloth
that has been moistened with a little kerosene or turpentine.
The color will be wiped off the surface but will remain in
the bottom of the grooved markings—From Modern Ma-
turity.

 

:eagsn

_ .n‘.'.' I o 

How schools are
reducing the cost of
playground maintenance

...with AMF Voit
Playground Cushion

Inefficient and dangerous sand, tanbark. wood shavings. sawdust
or just plain mud holes are rapidly disappearing like a bad dream.
Gone are the costly replacements and recleanings which have
plagued schools since playgrounds began.

The Voit Playground Cushion eliminates these problems because
it is virtually maintenance-free. You never have to worry abOut

APRIL, 1964

     

screening or raking , gritty sand and dirt being tracked onto school
room floors. And the Voit Playground Cushion is so durable and
damage-resistant, it's guaranteed for 10 years. with a life expect-
ancy of 20 years or more. In many cases. the savings in maintenance
costs alone will pay for the Playground Cushion in the first fouryears.

The safety secret of butyl rubber Voit Playground Cushion is in its
unique. double-action. honeycombed underside. Should a falling
child have sufficient impact to depress the first level of honeycomb.
the second safety level comes into play. cushioning the heaviest
impact.

Now add the happy fact that in every area where a Voit Playground
Safety Cushion has been used, not one child has suffered a serious
injury from a fall. This high protection factor. of course. can also
mean significant savings in insurance premiums.

Vwm

AMF VOIT PLAYGROUND CUSHION /W. J. VOIT RUBBER CORP.
A SUBSIDIARY OF AMERICAN MACHINE & FOUNDRY COMPANY

AMF Voit Playground Cushion
W. .l. Voit Rubber Corp.
P. 0. Box 958 Santa Ana, Calif. 92704

Gentlemen:

I] I would like information concerning a guaranteed
trial installation without obligation.

El Please send me full information about the Voit
Playground Cushion.

NAME POENON

SCHOOL
ADDRESS

ZONE STATE

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 199

I...
l...-
I III...-
III...-
I ‘g...
:3 II,
I\ ‘Q
I. II.‘
'IIII III"

II
I.
II
‘-
I
t

I

I

I
.I'
If
f

a...
:F'

in
III;

 

"'2:

DIGEST

Robert L. Meyer

AFETY can be as much of a chal-
S lenge as danger. You can prove it
by making your own 35MM slide-

show with an accident prevention theme.
Your child actors, scenery, and subject
matter are right at hand. The streets
and sidewalks around your center, for
example, are convenient background
for a slideshow on “How to Ride a
Bike.” You might inspect your com-
munity for high-hazard areas and then
produce a show on “Dangerous Places
to Play.” Tackle a uinversal headache

with a slideshow on “Safe Practices in
the Parking Lot.”

“But,” you say, “I’m no photogra-
pher.” Admittedly, the 35MM camera
is more complicated than your own box
camera, and, of course, there is more to
taking color slides than just aiming and
pressing a button. Nevertheless, most of
the people who are afraid to tackle
35MM pictures simply don’t realize that
the job is really no more difficult than
giving a home permanent.

Obviously, your first requirement is
a camera. So beg, borrow, or buy a
simple 35MM outfit. You will find that
the standard 35MM camera differs from
a box model in several ways. To begin
with, the film comes in a cartridge
rather than a paper-covered roll. The
method of loading the cartridge differs
from camera to camera, so be sure to
have someone show you how to load
the one you’ll be using. There are three

MR. MEYER is editorial director of the
National Safety Council and an. experi-
enced amateur photographer who has
produced home-made slideshows. This
material appeared in Safety Education,

November 1963 and is used with per-
mission.

200

MAKE YOUR
OWN SAFETY SIDESHOW

variables in 35MM photography—shut-
ter, aperture, and focus. When you use
a box camera, all of these variables are
already fixed, but with more versatile
photographic equipment, you must set
each of them yourself.

The shutter setting governs the
amount of light that reaches the film by
determining the length of time the shut-
ter is allowed to remain open. The light
is further controlled by the size of the
lens opening, the aperture, which works
very much like the pupil of your eye:
A wide Opening admits more light; a
small, pinpoint opening lets in less. The
focus, which determines the sharpness
of your picture, is controlled by vary-
ing the distance from lens to film ac-
cording to the distance between your
subject and the camera.

All this may sound somewhat com-
plicated, but you can make it much
easier for yourself by planning a slide-
show that uses outdoor pictures only.
When you do this, you make it possible
to fix two of the variables—shutter and
aperture—and then forget them. If, for
example, you use Kodachrome II, the
most popular and universally available
35MM film, just set the shutter at
l/lOOth of a second and the aperture
at f/8 and take all your pictures with
this setting. Then you need worry only
about the focus. And here you are for-
tunate because the 35MM camera has a
great “depth of focus.” This makes it
easy to take sharp pictures, even if you
make a mistake. For instance, if you
estimate the distance between you and
your subject at twelve feet and it is
actually nine or fifteen feet, your pic-

tures will probably come out sharp and
clear anyway.

WITH the mechanical details out of

the way, you’re ready to think
about a “shooting script.” The profes-
sionals plan their slideshows on story-
cards and it’s a good idea for you to
follow their example. Use a four-by-six-
inch card for each slide. On the left half
of the card, draw a sketch of the scene
you’re going to photograph. On the
right side, write out a detailed descrip-
tion of the scene.

To show you how to go about pro-
ducing a show, we have prepared a
twenty-slide example on “Playground
Safety.” Ten of the scenes show“wrong”
behavior on the playground and the
other ten show children playing the safe
way. Our descriptions are much briefer
than the one you will use on your story-
cards, for your set of cards should pro-
vide a complete script, including such
things as the names of youngsters in
the picture, how you want them posed
and the exact location at which you are
going to shoot your photo. (By the way.
if you decide to use this “right-wrong”
approach, be especially careful in pos-
ing the “wrong” scenes. You don’t want
to have a child hurt making a safety
film—it’s hard to keep that kind of
accident out of the newspapers.)

A suggested playground safety slide-
show might show:

1. Drinking Fountain

Wrong: Boy is bent over fountain.
drinking. Another youngster is play-
fully pushing his head down on foun-
tain; other boys are scufiling nearby.
Right: Boy is drinking at fountain.
Other children are standing in line,
waiting their turn.

2. Swings

Wrong: Girl is swinging. Two other

RECREATION

.sERiEi‘E -

v,’

2";
g a
’f

if

a, .

f .

  aseiaaazwmr; 

 . xii
 ‘- .mtm
 “assetsxswsisemg

. ‘ '. ‘ a . ‘ A

1‘13“
6

 

-  ‘s is; 

new“ '
QAQ’K “‘0 . -

RX.
131*

$3.3”:

s

With a little practice and patience,
even the rank amateur can turn out a
creditable slideshow with subjects to
be found on your local playgrounds.

 

APRIL, 1964

girls are walking behind the swing,
oblivious to danger.

Right: Girl is swinging. One of the
other girls is gently guiding her com-
panion out of the path of the swing.
3. Swings

Wrong: Boy is swinging, standing on
swing seat.

Right: Boy is swinging, seated.

4. Teeterboards

Wrong: The heavier child has pushed
his end down so that it has bumped the
ground. His partner is held high in the
air on the other side.

Right: The heavier child has stopped
his end short of the ground. His partner
on the other end is held only Slightly
higher.

5. Slide

Wrong: Two youngsters are crawling
up the slide while a third is at the top,
ready to come down.

Right: One child is coming down the
slide while another waits his turn at top.
6. Playground

Wrong: Three boys are playing mar-
bles. Fragments of a broken bottle are
near their play area.

Right: Boys are standing with a teacher
pointing out broken glass to her.

7. Monkeybars

Wrong: A boy is hanging by his knees
from one of the bars.

Right: Several children are climbing
upright on bars.

8. Bicycle Stand

Wrong: Girl is riding her bike through
a crowded playground area to get to
the bicycle rack.

Right: Girl is walking her bike toward
the rack.

9. Ball Games .
Wrong: Boys are playing three-cor-
nered catch in the midst of the appa-
ratus area.

Right: Boys have moved their game to
an empty corner of the playground,
away from apparatus.

10. Jump Rope

Wrong: Group of girls are playing jump
rope in the middle of the path that leads
to drinking fountain.

Right: Girls are jumping rope in a spot
where they won’t be in anyone’s way.

ONCE the storycards are finished,

you’re ready to take your pictures.
Be sure to purchase enough film to take
at least two shots of each scene. That

way you’ll be fairly certain of getting
one that is usable. When you take the'
pictures, avoid the common amateur’s-
error—that of moving too far away
from the subject. Try to fill the entire
film area with the picture you want.
Don’t include extraneous scenery; it
can do nothing but diminish the impact
of your photo.

Get your “actors” to relax so you’ll“
have natural looking pictures. Although
teenagers tend to be a bit self-conscious
before a camera and may need some
coaching at first, elementary-schoolers
usually can be quickly put at case. A
good trick is to have your subjects in
motion and talking to each other as you
take the photos. The movement puts
their bodies into relaxed positions, and
talking makes their faces appear ani-
mated and natural—that’s the whole
idea behind the photographer’s com-
mand to “Say Cheese.” (Don’t Worry
about motion blurring your picture.
The setting of l/lOOth of a second is
fast enough to stop any normal move-
ment, even that of a child running to-
ward you.)

All the photos for your show proba-
bly can be taken in a single afternoon.
When developed, you’ll have a safety
lesson on slides that can be taught again
and again.

How much will it all cost? Contrary
to what you may think, 35MM photo-
graphy is not expensive. You can pro-
duce finished slides for $.15 to 3.20 a
piece. Our “Playground Safety” show,
for example, would require two car-
tridges of twenty-exposure film, and
total cost for film and development
would run under $8.00.

The cost is low, but the dividends
are very high. Just consider the excel-
lent learning experiences that go along
with making your slideshow: At the
very beginning, you involve your pupils
as coproducers. They can help choose
the safety topic for the show and make
the script outline. When the actual
shooting takes place, they become the
cast and act out the safety lessons.
Finally, they can write and deliver the
commentary that will accOmpany the
slides.

Think about giving 35MM slides a
try. You’ll be surprised at the ease with
which you, a rank amateur, can turn out

a hit show every time. #

201

MARKET NEWS

 

0 SQUARED OFF. A new square archery target uses Curlex
wood fibers which literally “grab” an arrow as it penetrates
and self-heal as the arrow is withdrawn. The breaking and
cutting of material which normally accompanies an arrow’s
penetration into all other materials is virtually eliminated
by the new engineering process.

The new Precision-Pair target is extremely convenient to
the backyard archer, archery clubs, and schools since it is
relatively lightweight and comes equipped with carrying
straps. The square design provides twenty-seven percent

more shooting area.

Along with the targets, the company manufactures a com-
plete line of wire stands and extra burlap covers. For fur-
ther information, write to the American Excelsior Corpora-
tion at 1000 ‘North Halstead Street, Chicago 22; 900 Ave-
nue H East, Arlington, Texas; or 8320 Canford Street, Pico
Rivera, California.

«- Goon CATCH. A new, un-
usual construction in catchers’
mitts incorporates a F lex-O-
Matic Palm, a feature ordin-
arily found on fielders’ gloves
and first-base mitts. This al-
lows greater flexibility and con-
‘ 7 A  ‘ trol of the large mitt for easier

   "  catching and smoother field-
ing. The new mitt comes in two models, both of which fea-
ture a new Spiral Tap Speed Trap Web. For further infor-

mation, write to Rawlings Sporting Goods Company, 2300
Delmar Boulevard, St. Louis 66.

  

9 THE FLEXIBLE EXECUTIVE. A new 30”-by-60” folding ta-
ble, called the Monroe Executive (Model E-3060), is de-
signed for a wide range of uses. Alone, it can be used as
a table desk; in multiples, as a head table or conference room
table. The self-edge melamine plastic t0p is available in a
standard pattern of imperial walnut. The continuous frame
is of fourteen-gauge channel steel and finished in chrome or
baked enamel. The fourteen-gauge square tubular legs are
also available in baked enamel or chrome. Company’s forty-
page catalog contains color illustrations on the complete line
of folding banquet tables, folding benches and chairs, table
and chair storage trucks, risers, platforms and stages, and
portable room partitions. For a copy of the 1964 Catalogue,

write to the Monroe Company, 181 Church Street, Colfax,
Iowa.

0 CRITPROOF. Wear caused by sand and other foreign mat-
ter in the water supply is largely eliminated by two special
sprinkler heads which utilize stainless steel for a permanent

cap at the bottom impact area of the rotating, pop-up valve
stem. This fine-grain, hard-surface, polished material prac-
tically eliminates abrasion and wear from sand, coral, and
other foreign matter. The thrust bearing is of a specially
compounded material. The water flow provides a natural
lubrication and the bearing, like the cap, is also practically
impervious to wear. For further information, write to Rain
Jet Corporation, 301 South Flower Street, Burbank, Cali-
fornia.

o A BASIC CHANGE. There has been no basic change in the
design of coin-operated locker locks since their inception
forty years ago. The result is that the locks are still a mish-
mash of multiple parts so complicated that the failure of even
a minor part means sending the lock back to the factory for
the attention of eXperts. One of the services park and rec-
reation people have wanted for years is a method of quickly
changing coin-operated locks for free service by special
groups or time periods, and then a fast change-over to pay-
as-use service. By an ingenious device, this can now be done
with new locks designed for this specific purpose.

Another time-saving feature of the new locks is a lock
cylinder which, in case of a lost key, can be instantly re-
moved and replaced from the front of the locker without re-
moving the locking mechanism. Replacement of the keyless
cylinder is made from an onhand reserve of keyed cylinders,
each with a different key code to prevent unauthorized use
of any found key. The new locks are mounted inside, out
of invitational view of pryout artists. For further informa-
tion write to the leible Company, Locker Division, Loudon-

ville, Ohio.

0 BE SEATED! A new bench incorporates all the virtues of
fiberglass-reinforced construction—light weight, integral
color, permanence, low cost, and low maintenance—in a
seating piece suitable for play areas, parks, street corners,
shopping centers, or interior waiting areas. Concavity of
the top provides unusual comfort, with a slight s10pe toward
the ends to take care of rain runoff. Sculptural forms
throughout gain the maximum strength from the material.
Curved rim of the seat adds visual interest to a free-standing
piece and creates an undulating pattern when benches are
aligned.

The sculptural underbody uses compound curves to
achieve structural strength and relational consistency with
the top. This arch form gives tremendous bearing power
to the base, with leg forms placed for maximum stability.
For further information, write to Architectural Fiberglass,
division of Architectural Pottery, 2020 South Robertson
Boulevard, Los Angeles, California 90034.

For further information, please write directly to source given and mention RECREATION Magazine.

202

RECREATION

RESOURCE GUIDE

 

 

INDEX TO ADVERTISERS

 

Page
All-Metal Tennis .....- -...._.__._...._. 205
American Athletic Equipment _._..._....._.._.. 211
American Cancer Society ___..__.....-______.__ 210
American Excelsior _.__ mmmm __.______.___ 171
American Playground Device 195

Armco .___._.____..___....._.... Inside Front Cover
Ball-Boy .__.._._.._ _________ _._____ 155
Classified ____._.-___________._c........_____ 212
Cosom  ._......._.____ 157
Dayton Racquel _._..._...---....____...______.__.. 206
Delmar Harris __-_...___..-___._._.__....._.__ 160
Dimco-Gray MW 171
E. G. Walker ____ __-__.. Inside Back Cover

 

 

Emblem and Badge ......-_.-._...____.._.._._. 207
Fun In the Sun _._..____......__....__._.._._..... 159
Ga me-Time --......-....__----___.-..-__...______. 161
Gold Medal _.---__,..z--._.____.___._-..__-.__. 207
H 8. R Manufacluring _.._..._.._.._.______.._._.._ 206
Hanna Bats _________________ __._.___._ 161
Harler Awards _.___.-_._..._.._.__.______ 211
Hillerich 8. Bradsby ._........._.._ 131-136
Ice Skating Institute -_---__------_.__.--_._____ 160
J. E. Burke ___-__-.___.._..--.__.-__.._.__._... 190
June ls Recreation Monlh ....._._..__ 195
Kay Enlerprises .....__ _____________ -m... 208
Kwikbill _..._____.__.__...-_._.._._._.._.._--_.___ 198
Macmillan Publishing ___________________ ___ 166
Mason City Tenl and Awning _____...._.____ 161
Miracle Equipmenl .._-___..__.......n Back Cover
National Association for Mental Health _.__ 205
National Studios ___..__.__. 198
Organization Services --.__._..____z_-._.._____ 158
Package Publicity Service _-.._.________-._._ 205
Playground Summer Notebook .____.___ 161
Plume Trading _______ 206
Recreation Research Institute ____-______ 208
Sentinel Lockers _________ _.____________ 192
Sico _._.. .__.-___.___...- Inside Back Cover
Tandy leather mmmmmm ___.___...... 210
Trophy World _.__..._..__-.__-_._.._..-_____.___ 198
Visual Resources 22..-...“ Inside Back Cover
Voit Rubber .__........._..__._._....__.______ 199
World Wide Games mm-___ 198

APRIL, 1964

 AIDS—Please Write Directly To Sources Given

ARTS AND CRAFTS

Specialized service for weavers is available
from a veteran handweavet’, designer, teacher,
loom builder, and writer. He builds looms to
order and also rebuiids them. He has prepared
a series of weaving "notebooks" containing
lessons and teaching material. Each title is
built around a series of lessons in one area
and constitutes a whole course on that one sub-
iect. Custom-tailored conespondence courses
also available. For further information, write
to Robert Fredric Heartz, Epping, New Hamp-
shire.

Zebra tulip and rosewood . . . learn to sculpt
with exotic and rare woods. for details of free
set of tools and catalogue, also instruction books
and wood, write to Sculpture House, 38 East
30th Street, New York 10016.

Effortless flow. Try easy-Io-mlx and easy-to-use
brilliant semi-moist watercolor tempera, and
watercrayons on paper, cardboard, acetate,
plastic, wood, plywood, plaster, metal, rubber,
and glass. Write for catalogue (Am-73) of art
materials to Weber Costello, 1212 McKinley,
Chicago Heights, Iliinois.

MAINTENANCE. STORAGE. UPIIEEP

For down-tredden floors. A mortar-like cement
expands when it sets, forming a hard permanent
bond unaffected by heat, steam, moisture, al-
cohol, or corrosive cleaning products. X-Pan-
dotite seals cracks and other indentations in
traffic-worn terrazzo, marble, stone, and ma-
sonry floors, and can be drilled, tapped, coi-
ored, painted, or stained. Descriptive litera-
ture is available from X-Pando Corporation,
43-15 36th Street, long Island City, New York
‘I I 101.

Quick dip. You can fill a concrete pool for
swimming iust twenty-four hours after apply-
ing iust one cool of a new pool paint. No pre-
liminary etching required. Burlite pool paint
is available in. seven swimminng colors. For
further information, write to Burry-Coionial
Corporation, 1001 Roosevelt Avenue, Carteret,
New Jersey.

Counteragent. New formula aerosol spray elim-
inates high-level odors from a variety of transi-
tory sources. The special Gold label Mist com-
pound relieves a wide range of malodors from
crowded meeting rooms, craft shops, locker
rooms, et cetera. Contains no heavy perfumes
or chemicals. Neutralizes obiectionabie odors
with a washed air freshness. For a bulletin,
write to Airkem, Inc., 241 East 44th Street, New
York 10017.

Sheltless? A new line of twelve-inch steel
bookcase shelving units may be used individual-
ly or in continuous assemblies—single-faced for
arrangement along walls or double-faced with

access from either side. Backs may be open
or closed. Comes in four standard colors with
eight optional colors to choose from. For in-
formation, write to Penco Products Inc., 200
Brower Avenue, Oaks, Pennsylvania.

Don't let your coreOpsis collapse, dahlias droop,
or nasturtiums iook nasty when your plants can
be light-happy. Give the Rowers and greenery
in your indoor planters and dark corners and
rooms the red and blue iight they need by us-
ing Gro-lux lamps. Your indoor gardeners will
appreciate two brochures, Bright Ideas for
Growing House Plants and Guide to Better Plant
Growth offered by Sylvania lighting Products,
60 Boston Street, Salem, Massachusetts.

For yachts and canoes. Surface protector for
metal, fiberglass, and wood boats gives a
mirror-iike finish. leVernier's Custom Marine
Gloss Surface Protector cleans, polishes, and
provides hard glass-like surface. It removes
oxidation, rust, bugs, and oil stains, and stops
ravages of weather. For sample and further
information, write to Custom Crest Car Products,
Inc., Syracuse, indiana.

SPORTS AND HTNESS

Duo-dynamic. A former national handball
champion has devised a Resist-O-Ciser for iso-
metric contraction exercises which can be done
solo or with a partner. This “portable gym,"
which weighs only two pounds, comes complete
with an illustrated instruction chart of fifty-
two exercises. For further information, write
to Bill luro, 1823 East 33rd Street, Brooklyn
34, New York.

Touche and go! Fencing equipment by a man
with en garde know-how: George Santelli, a
champion and a teacher of champions (Olym-
pic fencing coach). For catalogue of foils,
epees, sabres, and other equipment (for right-
and left-handed fencers), including electrical
models, write to George Santelli, Inc., Fencing

-~ Equipment, 412 Sixth Avenue, New York 10011.

Budget build-up. low-cost sets of nonadiustable
barbeils include ten barbells from twenty
pounds to sixty pounds on a five-foot chrome
bar; fixed 'dumbbells sets range from ten to
thirty p0unds. low-cost racks also available.
For complete specifications and prices, write
Gymnastic Supply Company, 247 West Sixth
Street, San Pedro, California.

FILMS

Attuned to history. Foiksongs reflect the history
of our nation and its enduring traditions. The
second in a series of tilmstrips on “Our Ameri-
can Heritage of Folk Music," is designed for the
intermediate- through high-school levels and

203

 

presents carefully researched folksongs selected
for their significance in American musical and
historical development.

The six full-color tilmstrips in Group 2 ore
entitled: “Songs of the American Revolution,"
“Songs of the Old South,“ "Songs of Pioneer
Mid-America,“ “Songs of the Western Frontier,“
"Songs of“ the Mississippi Valley,“ and “Songs
of the Old Southwest.“ They dramatize the var-
ied aspects and confiicting patterns of life that
characterized each of these significant phases
of the country's development.

As an introduction, the narrator relates the
story of each folksong and of the people who
first song it. Then, to the accompanying voice
and guitar of Win Stracke, noted American folk-
singer, TV and radio personality, the words of
each song appear on the screen for group sing-
ing. Original, full-color artwork illustrates each
song with accurate historical settings. The ac-
companying records are equipped with both
audible and inaudible signals for either manual
or automatic frame advance. For further infor-
maton, write to Society for Visual Education,
lnc., Dept. 63-30, 1345 Diversey Parkway, Chi-
cago 61614.

In haliday mood. A set of six full-color film strips
presents ingenious suggestions for holiday arts-
and-crafts proiects. Called Holiday Art Activi-
ties, the set was prepared by George Borford
and Barry Moore of the Illinois State Normal
University Department of Art. The six captioned
filmstrips suggest art activities suitable for au-
tumn and Thanksgiving, Christmas, Valentine's
Day, Easter, Mother's Day, and Halloween. It
introduces new and simple techniques and em-
ploys materials which are inexpensive, readily
available, and easy to use. The proiects illus-
trated provide numerous opportunities for chil-
dren to express their creative abilities and also
to learn _to work together in the planning and
execution of murals and party decorations. Each
hlmstrip in this colorful series, with captions, is
priced at $5.00. The complete set of six film-
strips with captions is offered at the special
price of $27.00. For further information on this
and other related filmstrips, write to Society for
Visual Education, lnc., Dept. 83-29, 1345 Diver-
sey Parkway, Chicago 61614.

Motivotian for fitness. The heolth of America‘s
youth is a matter of concern to parents, recrea-
tion leaders, and educators. A set of four cap-
tioned filmstrips in full color, entitled “Physical
Fitness," provides materials for a physical-edu-
cotion program that may be carried out in the

classroom, gym, or play area. Designed for pri-
mary and intermediote levels, the filmstrips pre-
sent basic exercises and stunts that require no
equipment, simple team games that pave the
way for more elaborate sports, self-testing ac-
tivities that indicate by the time consumed or
points scored how the participant compares with
other members of the group, and basic rhythms.

Authors of the series are Hester Beth Bland,
HSD, consultant in health and physical educa-
tion for the Indiana State Board of Health; l.ola
Lohse, MS, director, Normal College of Indiana
University; and Henry A. lohse, MS, principal
of the Moorhead Elementary School in Indian-
apolis. Each filmstrip, in full color with captions
and leader‘s guide, is priced at $6.00. The com-
plete series is offered at the special price of
$19.00. For further information about this or
other physical-education filmstrips, write to
Dept. 63-31, Society for Visual Education, 1345
Diversey Parkway, Chicago 61614.

 

LOW-COST Alns

Order these resources and references di-
rectly from source given (enclose remittance).

.

Tell them about a career in recreation. The Re-
cruitment Subcommittee of the National Recre-
ation Association's National Advisory Commit-
tee on Recruitment, Troining and Placement has
prepared a script and thirty color slides entitled
A Career in Recreation to be used in face-to-face
presentations and on TV programs. It is meant
to be supplemented by additional material
based on your own experience and with slides
showing local scenes. and activities. Used this
way, it will serve as the nucleus for a twenty- to
thirty-minute discussion of the scope and chal-
lenge of recreation as a career. The two-by-
two-inch color slides are executed in a cartoon
style which will not date. They can be used
over and over again for many years to come.
The price for script and slides is $15.00
($13.50 to NRA Service Affiliates and Service
Associates). To order, use coupon below.

Tee off. A guide to golf course development
and management, Public Golf Courses by Wal-
ter l. Cook and Roy Holland, takes a hard
look at the various operational techniques, par-
ticularly in relation to profit and loss. Single

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION

8 West Eighth Street
New York, New York 1001 1

I want to start recruiting top-flight leaders for the recreation field; please

send me .................. .. sets of A CAREER IN RECREATION (script and stidest at
$15.00 per set ($13.50 to NRA Service Affiliates and Service Associates).

Name -—-—-———-———————-——-——————__________________.

Street

City .___. __.._.c

 

State 8- Zipcode

 

(Please print name and address)

Remittance enclosed D

204

Bill my agency D

copies of the thirty-six-page manual are avail-
able for $2.00 from the American Institute of‘
Park Executives, Ogleboy Park, Wheeling, West'
Virginia (ask for Management Aids Bulletin

#33).

Expanding recreation opportunities for the non‘
institutionalized mentally ill and mentally re-
tarded persons in the community was the sub-
iect of the First lhdiano Institute on Therapeutic
Recreation in the Community. The papers pre-
sented at the institute are now available in o
117-page manual edited by Dr. Janet R. Mac—
lean of Indiana University. Therapeutic Recrea-
tion in the Community is available for $.10 (to
cover postage) from the Department of Rec-
reation, Indiana University, BIaomingtan.

In orbit. Pamphlets, booklets, charts, kits, units,
pictures, , bibliographies, films, filmstrips, and
other materials offered free or at nominal cost
by aerospace manufacturers, the airlines, gov-
ernment agencies, and private and professional
agencies are included in Pictures, Pamphlets and
Packets, a resource baaklet available for $.25
from the National Aerospace Education Council,
1025 Connecticut Avenue, N.W., Washington 6,
D.C.

May it never came to poss. The author'of Rec-
reation in a Fallout Shelter, John F. Austin, pro-
gram director of the Spartanburg, South Coro-
lina, Parks and Recreation Department, hopes
that the use of his pamphlet neVer becomes a
reality but iust in case . . . here are recreation
activities and equipment for a shelter program,
bath family and public. Single copies of the
twelve-page booklet are available in return for

r. a self-addressed, stamped envelope from Mr.

Austin, Park and Recreation Board, 260 North
Church Street, Spartanburg, South Carolina.
0

A helping hand. The federal government has
a number of programs under which the states,
their political subdivisions, individuals, groups
and associations may qualify for assistance in
outdoor recreation. This assistance involves
credit, cost-shoring, technical aid, educational
services, and research. This is covered, agency
by agency, in the booklet Federal Assistonce
in Outdoor Recreation issued by the U.S. De-
partment of the Interior and available for $.20
from the U.S. Government Printing Ottice, Wash-
ington D.C. 20402.
0

How to get it across. YOur public relations
program and visual presentations will have tell-
ing impact if you use the suggestions and ideas
in the manual Farceful Communication through
Visual Resources. This resource book was pre-
pared for the 8th Annual National Institute in
Recreation Administration by Theodore R.
Deppe, Janet R. Mocleon, and Harvey R. Frye
of Indiana University. Copies are available for
$2.50 from the National Recreation Association,

8 West 8th Street, New York 10011.
e ' '

According to the rules. Many amateur and non-
professional organizations play baseball under
professional rules which are now available (in-
cluding 1964 changes) in an eighty-eight-pege
booklet Official Baseball Rules (authorized by
the commissioner of baseball). Copies are
available for $.50 from The Sporting News,
2018 Washington Avenue, St. .louis 63166
(also ask for list of other sports publications).

RECREATION

New Ideas for Playgrounds
Continued from Page 180

M

York City Park Commissioner Newbold
Morris “was glum as he studied draw-
ings of playgrounds on stilts, on roof-
tops and on river barges,” reports The
New York Times. He frowned when he
saw playgrounds with rollerskating
courses, foul-weather shelters, medieval
castles, and design themes ranging from
space-age frenzy to tree-shrouded soli-
tude.” His comment on one—“That
probably would last a day and a half
here”—was based on the fact that New
York City suffers $450,000 a year in
willful damage in park property.
Regardless of practicability for cities
like New York, a contest and an exhibit
like this is a tremendous spur to stu-
dents, on whom will fall the responsi-
bility for planning the play areas of the
future. Perhaps such contests and ex-
hibits have still another result—that of
jolting those of us in the recreation and

park positions out of the ruts of tra-
dition and opening our eyes to concepts
of design that may have potential for
future success.

Whitney North Seymour, Jr., presi-
dent of the Park Association, summed
up the exhibit very succinctly, in two
sentences: “If the exhibit helps to
bring about a re-examination of the
basic concept of playgrounds—pur-
poses, space, materials, surfaces, uses
—then it has fulfilled its objectives am-
ply. This is an attempt to find a begin-
ning point, not the final answers.”

The Park Association of New York
City should be congratulated on its ef-
forts. The many students who entered
the contest should be commended for
their interest in better play areas and
urged to explore this area of work by
observation, study, and experiment.—
Virginia M usselman.

o The secretary of the National Rec-
reation Congress is exploring the pos-

sibility of bringing this exhibit to the
I964 Congress in Miami Becch.—-Ed.

 

Two to One in Miami Beach
Continued from Page 167

 

munity center and other playground
installations. South Shore Park covers
five acres.

Community-center activities include
concerts, social and square dancing,
vaudeville, forums, book reviews and
concerts. Dancing is available accord-
ing to age groups.

Adult special-interest groupsinclude
language classes, instruction in bridge,
canasta and Mah-Jong, ceramics, sew-
ing, art, photography, and dancing.
There are special classes in lip reading
for the hard-of-hearing and special
classes and activities for the blind.

Annual special events include a Chau-
tauqua series, art show, hobby show,
Junior Olympic festival, teenage talent
show, music festival, playground revue,

SUPPORT
YOUR

MENTAL
HEALTH
ASSOCIATION

 

APRIL, 1964

Halloween frolic, and a float in the
annual Junior Orange Bowl parade.

The department sponsors the annual
Good Neighbor Tennis Championships.
This tournament attracts some of the
world’s finest players and is a part of
the Caribbean circuit. The Orange Bowl
Junior Tennis Championships and the
Sunshine Cup International Junior Ten-
nis Team Matches, played over a two-
week period in the Christmas-New Year
holidays on the Flamingo Park courts,
are regarded as the world’s outstanding
junior tennis tournaments. The depart-
ment lends its facilities and cooperation
to the sponsors of these attractions.

There is no closed season for the
Miami Beach recreation department. In
winter the emphasis shifts to adults, as
the population swells with visitors. In
summer, most activities accent teenage
and grammar-school groups, including
local residents as well as children of
summer vacationers.

The department receives gratifying
recognition and support from the Miami
Beach City Council, the municipal gov-
erning body. Many activities are sup-
ported entirely by tax monies, but nomi-
nal fees are charged for others as a
matter of fiscal necessity. #

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

IOO‘V
ALUMINUM Table

0
EXTRA HEAVY-DUTY Tennls

LIFETIME
CONSTRUCTION ables

Exclusively Designed for Intensive
Use in All Public Recreation Areas

INDOOR and OUTDOOR

\, OFFICIAL
\ - REGULATION
SIZE and BALL
BOUNCE A
‘. ,0 l
...-  ’
\‘q—‘-~ ..
\w v

5'

\

I

Folding Leg
and Rigid Leg
Models

Surface \
ATTRACTIVE NON-GLARE
GREEN SURFACE with WHITE LINES

ELIMINATE MAINTENANCE
8: REPLACEMENT PROBLEMS

USED WORLD-WIDE IN: Municipal Recrea-
tion Centers, Colleges. Schools, Armed
Forces, Clubs, Parks, etc.

for Full Details Write:

ALL METAL TENNIS TABLE 00.
Dept. T —- Box 142, Teaneck, N. J.

DON’T PllT on
A snow....

. . . without seeing how we can
help you stir up excitement and
thronging audiences for the
show with—:

PUBLICITY PACKAGES

Press books, ready-to-use stories

POSTERS

Illustrated in two colors

ADVERTISING MATS

Illus. for house-organs, area newspa-
pers, programs, flyers

POSTCARDS

I llus. 2 colors, for mailing & for bulle—
tin boards, etc.

FLYERS

Illustrated throwaways

o BILLBOARD DISPLAYS

To strike attention in parking lots and
elsewhere

Sound-Proofed

: Fitting the most limited budgets, available

on 500 different plays & musical comedies.

SEND FOR OUR FREE CATALOG

and ask for our free Production Schedule,
listing 135 “Don't-Forget” dates that must
be kept when readying a show for openIng.

PACKAGE PUBLICITY SERVICE. Inc.
247 W. 46 St., New York 36 ° CO 5-4188

Publishers of SIMON'S DIRECTORY OF THE-
ATRICAL MATERIALS, SERVICES & INFOR-
MATION. $3.60 postpaid. which tells where
To Buy, Rent or Lease EVERYTHING you
need when putting on a show. (Over 6000
firms listed in 50 states 8. Canada).

Our customers include recreation
depts. of Gen. Dynamics, Chas. F. Pfi-
zer. Republic Aircraft 8. other compa-
nies, as well as many military & munic-
ipal recreation depts.

 

205

 
       

approved for
tournament

play!

   
  
 

LastYearsLonger 

 
    
  
   

   
 

' \ u, d
n.- - -. . . s
 1* ' ' ‘.__'_ '<
as: -- ' 

VII-"mun- «-

a!

  
 
 

’QDIQIQIH 

‘
9
.

   
    
    
 
    
    
   
  
  

Dayton steel tennis, badminton
and paddle tennis racquets are
ideal for any school or play-
ground program. Their "extra
whip" improves every youngster's
game—gives a speed and
accuracy that cannot be ’
matched by any other type j
of racquet. "'

What's more, Dayton rac-
quets are practically inde- '-
slructible. Their steel strings
and tubular steel fsames are . 
not affected by climatic/Wes, .'
changes. No covers or
presses are needed to
protect'them. They won't
warp, splinter, rot or sag. '

Investigate them now. I
Ask your local dealer
about them—or write to-
day for complete infor-
mation.

mum ncuun comm _ {12:23} 3.
744 Albrig-ht 5L, Arcanum,0hla ‘ - yrs in Ill
asking.

ayton
STEEL RACQUETS

 

 

RYAN‘S H. G: R.

DRY LINE MARKERS

ALSO POWER DRIVEN AUTOUNE
From 2011' to lOOII Capacity

“ACE MODEL SHOWN"

Farce Feed — Instant
Shutol!’ -— 50 lbs. Ca-
pacity.

Shaker In Hopper tor
Constant Flow.

Adiustable Control on
Handle.

SAVES TIME AND
MATERIAL

 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  

Send to Dept. R for booklet on other 4 models.
rt. 8. R. MFG. CO., LOS ANG§LES 34, CALIF.

 

AAAMMAAAAAMAAAAAAAAAAAA

INDIAN L©RE

7 ' OCRAFTSOKITS° LITERATURE
- SUPPLIES 0 COSTUMES 0 PRINTS
w Authentic and 'eomplete tor beginners
and experts. Shipped Immediately.
I I
Q
All
‘ City
VWVVVVVYYYVVVVVVVV-VVVVV
206

Since l927lPttst: New York City
Museum: Monroe. N. Y.

PLUME TRADING CO.

Dept. 240. Box 585. Monroe. N. Y.
Yours FREE, the finest catalog and
Nice list.

Neme—

.8tete_ __

 

AAAAAAAAMAMAAAAAMA
‘ VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV

Br FOR THE ILL 65 HANDICAPPED

 

+ This winter sixty-five children aged
eight to thirty-five, from Letchworth
Village for the Mentally Retarded, in
Theills, New York, presented the musi-
cal Oklahoma to three thousand guests
at the New York (City) Hilton Hotel as
a climax to the Letchworth Village
Welfare League’s fund-raising cam-
paign. Letchworth Village accommo-
dates five thousand residents with the
range running from those who will re-
quire constant nursing care all their
lives to others whose capacity for sim-
ple learning will enable them to live in
the outside world. Frank Di Maria, the
village’s recreation director, reports
that the group had prepared for six
months. Their IQ’s ranked in the upper
level of a range of 30 to 79. The songs
were repeated by individuals for two
months before the group rehearsed to-
gether. By show time the musical was
performed professionally with very few
forgotten words. The performance was
excellent. This is a fine example of what
patience, individual attention, and good
leadership can do to bring out the in-
herent abilities of the retarded.

+ The Homebound Recreation Project
currently being operated in Chicago by
the National Recreation Association is
well into the operational stage with
nineteen arthritis and multiple-sclerosis
homebound persons being visited week-
ly by trained volunteers equipped with
recreation materials. The project reach-
ed another milestone by issuing its
first newletter. Most of the news items
concerning the patients are written by
the patients and the preparation of the
newsletter is supervised by a patient
editor. Marjorie Bishop is project di-
rector.

’i‘ Patients at the Timberlawn Psy-
chiatric Center in Dallas, Texas, recent-
ly presented a production of A Man’s
Song, a lyrical dramatization about
Stephen Foster and his music, with an
original script by Mrs. Beth Stacker,
drama therapist on the recreation ther-
apy staff. The production combined the
techniques of drama, choral speaking,
choral music, and dance in emphasizing
the genius and creativity of Stephen
Foster despite his emotional immaturi-
tv. chronic alcoholism, and the severe
depression expressed in many of his

Du. THOMPSON is director of the Na-
tional Recreation Association’s Consult-
ing Service on Recreation for the I II and
Handicapped.

When er’..".g to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

Morton Thompson, Ed.D.

songs. Eighty-six patients out of the
total patient pOpulation of 138 at Tim-
berlawn were actively involved in some
aspect of the drama which was pre-
sented for the hospital staff and families
of patients.

*l‘ A multicolored wand is a multi-
purpose piece of equipment that can be
used for activities geared to mentally
retarded children. Guy Mills, Jr., rec-
reation therapist at the Porterville,
California, State Hospital offers some
suggestions in the use of the multi-
colored wand:

0 It can serve as the “attention getter”
when beginning any activity.

0 It can serve as a teaching device for
the children to learn colors.

0 It can serve as a chinning bar and as
a pullup bar.

0 It can serve as a “flipper” with two
or more patients tossing the wand back

and forth. ‘

o It can be used in game activities.

+ An interesting method of developing
a day camp for the residents of a school
f0r the retarded is reported by Michael
S. Watters, recreation director at the
Nampa, Idaho, State School. Last year,
the Idaho Forestry Department allotted
the Nampa School ten acres of land for
use as a summer camp. The school was
required to clear the land and build
access roads and facilities. Using staff,
volunteers, community service organi-
zations, and some of the residents di-
vided into small crews, Nampa spent
ten consecutive weeks in building tent
foundations, latrines, approved protec-
tive campfire and cooking areas, and
an access road. The camp now in oper-
ation is called Ed-Dah-Now, an Indian
word meaning “Light on the Moun-
tain.” This is a fine example of cooper-
ation between an institution, the state,
and the community in helping meet the
social and recreation needs of the handi-
capped.

+ Time was when bed rest was con-
sidered indispensable in the treatment
of tuberculosis; but times have changed.
Now patients not only stroll the corri-
dors of the hospital but even engage in
active sports, apparently none the worse
for their activity. The change has come
about as a result of chemotherapy, the
success of drug treatment having led
doctors to question the necessity of ab-
solute bedrest. A test of the effect, if

RECREATION

any, of athletics on tuberculosis treat-
ment was part of a controlled study
undertaken at F itzsimmons General
Hospital in Denver. A program of free
ambulation with calisthenics and com-
petitive athletics was inaugurated at the
hospital in 1957, according to Co]. J.
W. Weir, M.C., USA. No ill effects
were noted. Furthermore, he added,
followup of 350 military patients on this
program revealed a relapse rate of only
one percent over a period of one to
four years after return to active duty.—

From the Bulletin of the National TB

Association.

4‘ A new center for research and evalu-
ation of related research on Parkinson’s
Disease is to be erected at the Columbia-
Presbyterian Medical Center in New
York City. The center has been made
possible by a federal grant of $3,000,-
000 provided by the National Institute
of Neurological Diseases and Blindness,
Bethesda, Maryland. William Black,
chairman of the Chock Full 0’ Nuts Cor-
poration, has donated $5,000,000 for the
building. Codirectors of the project will
be Dr. H. Houston Merritt, dean of
Columbia University’s College of Phy-
sicians and Surgeons, and Dr. Melvin
D. Yahr, professor of Neurology of the

same university.

'i‘ The Philadelphia Arthritis and
Rheumatism Foundation, which is con-
ducting the Public Health Service proj-
ect on “A Community Recreation Refer-
ral Program for Arthritics,” is planning
a meeting for April 16 to present a
progress report on the first half year of
the project. At this meeting, a presenta-
tion will be given of the “Analysis of
Data” collected concerning the effects
of the recreation participation of the
first fifteen arthritic cases in the pilot
phase of the project. Guest speakers will
include R. W. Lamont Havers, M.D.,
medical director of the Arthritis and
Rheumatism Foundation, and Joseph
Prendergast, executive director of the
National Recreation Association. The

NRA is the consultant agency to the
project.

'i‘ A three-week workshop on “Recre-
ation for Geriatric Patients in Nursing
Homes,” given by the Westchester
County, New York, Recreation and
Park Department, included sessions on
psychology, social needs of the aged,
administration of recreation in a nurs-
ing home, physical limitations of the
aged, using community resources, ther-
apeutic recreation, using volunteers,
recreation for the homebound, and all
phases of activity. In addition, the
course provided three afternoons of
practice in nursing homes and a dem-

APRIL, 1964

onstration recreation program con-
ducted with the residents of a nursmg
home.

'1‘ R. Roy Rusk of the Arthritis and
Rheumatism Foundation, who attended
the 1963 World Congress in Copen-
hagen and then toured six other coun-
tries, was shocked at the lack of recre-
ation materials. The National Recrea-
tion Association’s responsibility as a
member of the committee is to serve
as a source of information and educa-
tion concerning recreation for the ill
and handicapped for the other member
nations. The present membership of the
committee includes England, Norway,
Argentina, Denmark, France, Sweden,
Germany, Belgium, Australia, Mexico,

Canada, and the USA.

+ Two new projects of the Booth Me-
morial Hospital in Flushing, New York,
a hospital sponsored by the Salvation
Army, include a new wing for unwed
mothers and a geriatric center. Helen
Grossman has recently been appointed
recreation director for the maternity
unit. The program will call for a co-
ordinated effort by all services, includ-
ing homemaking, school classes, and
recreation. The goal of the hospital is
to provide the girls with homemaking
skills, social graces, and recreation and
cultural interests, so that, upon dis-
charge from the hospital, they will be
equipped with the pr0per attitude and
skills for future success as parents and
homemakers. The geriatric center will
be equipped with outstanding facilities
for recreation and community living.
The two new units may very well serve
as models for other Salvation Army hos-
pitals in the United States.

'1‘ The January 1964 issue of School
Arts, the art education magazine, is de-
voted exclusively to “Art and the Handi-
capped.” The articles concern the blind,
deaf, retarded, aphasic, and the excep-
tional. The articles have illustrations
and are excellent in content. They cer-
tainly add to the growing need for ex-
cellent resource information in the field
of recreation for the ill and handicap-
ped. William B. Jennison, general man-
ager of the Davis Publications, pub-
lisher of the magazine, has given the
National Recreation Association per-
mission to reprint several of the articles
for use as part of its Consulting Service
literature. The January 1964 issue of
the magazine is currently available at
$.75 a copy. For information about
School Arts, write the publisher, Davis
Publications, Printers Building, Wor-
chester 8, Massachusetts. (The May
1961 issue of School Arts was also de-
voted to the same subject.)

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

YOU’ll lOVE US

2/3 OFF!

 

...FOR SAVING YOU 2/3

Your club members will love you,
too, for getting them the finest
trophies, awards and badges at a
whopping big 66% discount. Free
engraving. Write for your 1964 cata-
log now. Our 3ist year as a trophy
manufacturer.

EMBLEM 8: BABE “t’f'

DEPT. R

859 North Main St.
Providence 4, R.l. DE 1-5444

‘ BUDGET noun?

Here’s how to finance
recreational needs:

OBTAIN
ADDITIONAL FUNDS
—PROVI DE
MORE FUN!

Everybody loves popcorn. They’ll buy it on
sight. The income you derive is ffound
money’ to improve your programming.

Delicious Gold Medal Popcorn—or refresh-
ing Sno-Kones—sell fast wherever people
gather: near the pool...in picnic areas...
adjoining the baseball diamond...where
therapy’s taught...anywhere in park or
parking lot. Even under the "Ice Skating
Today" sign in winter! 

Your income? 8c profit on every 10c sale.

Add up these thousands of potential sales
per year. . .install Gold Medal equipment
...start expanding your recreation services
with the money you'll make!

Sand for FREE catalog and helpful brochure—today!

% GOLD MEDAL PRODUCTS CO.

1859 Freeman Ave, - Cincinnati. Ohio, 45214

 

207

The Park and Recreation Administrator
Continued from Page 195

 

If an administrator has the first two qualities and sufficient
persistence, he will get the third.

WHAT KIND of an administrator do we need in America
to meet the challenge that faces us in the park and
recreation profession? We need administrators who have
creative ability; imagination; an understanding and love
of peOple; a knowledge of the park and recreation field; a
desire to apply the democratic process in their administra-
tion; the ability to interpret the emotional, social, physical,

All-Steel PICNIC TABLE FRAMES

    
  
   

Kay all-steel picnic tables accommodate six
large adults with plenty of room for each per-
son. Order now for immediate delivery.

Galvanized

$24.50

Enameled

$19.50

Walk-Thru Seats
Welded Construction

Plenty Leg Room
Easy to Assemble

Constructedwof 11/2” std.
pipe" legs. Braces. top and
seat cleats. 1x2X3/162’
channel. 3/8” plated bolts. '

WITH LUMBER ADD _
$10.00 PER TABLE - f

(5) 2x10's x 6 ft.

No. 1 graded or | '
better. Pre-drilled,

Penta treated.

   

80% of sales to Parks & Recreation
Areas are for Kay's Type-A Grills

0 Big Grills—Enamel Finish

Type A . . . swivels 360°. Improved lock

prevents theft. Grill adjustable high or
0w.

3/16” steel .............................. .. $29.90
1A" steel .................................. .. $33.75

We quote on BIDS—put us on your list

swam...

JANESVIllE, IOWA

Write for Brochure
& Quantity Discounts

Specialized Games Equipment
Active Games for Handicapped and Aged

Pre-Tested in Hospitals—Nursing Homes
Colorful, durable equipment each with point scores.
Can be used for instruction, physical conditioning.
contests, parties. and carnivals. Easily stored.

FOR ALL SEASONS
USE INDOORS AND OUTDOORS
FREE BROCHURE

Recreational Research Institute
258 Broadway. New York. N. Y. 10007 ° REctor 2-4550

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

Available with Pre-dn‘lled Lumber '

 

educational, and economic values of recreation to his em-
ployes and the general public; and a dedication to his pro-
fession.

The editors of Holiday magazine have presented us with
a challenge. They have stated that the place in history of
American civilization will depend on the use we make of
our leisure. Are we as administrators prepared to play our
part in assuring our American civilization its potential role
in the history of civilization? #

0 See also “The Job of Recreation Executives," Sal Prezi-
ozo, Recreation, June 1960,- "No Recreation Director Is an
Island,” Jac A. Cropley, November 1960,- "The People We
Meet," Selwyn Orcutt, December 1960; "Enlightened Su-
pervision," John L. Merkley and Ted Gordon, January
1961; “Somebody Must Tend the Grass Roots," Norman 5.
Johnson, June 1961,- ”Men to Match Our Mountains," Nor-

man Miller, September i961.

Research Briefs
Continued from Page 193

. 
-as elementary insurance for the preservation and best use

0

Among twenty recommendations are therfollowing:
o The National Park Service should itself plan and adminis-
ter its own mission-oriented research program directed
toward the preservation, restoration, and interpretation of
the national parks. .
0 Consultation with the research unit in natural history of
the National Park Service should precede all decisions on
management operations involving preservation, restoration,
development, protection, interpretation, and the public use
of a park.
0 Research should include specific attention to significant
changes in land use, in other natural resource use, or in eco-
nomic activities on areas adjacent to national parks likely
to affect the parks.
0 Cooperative planning as a result of research should be
fostered with other agencies which administer public and
private lands devoted to conservation and to recreation.

of the parks.” ',

Conventional vs. Geodesic

Recreation and park departments considering the con-
struction of a gymnasium can profitably study a publication
entitled Conventional Gymnasium vs. Geodesic Field House
prepared by McLeod and Ferrara, architects, and available
from Educational Facilities Laboratories, 477 Madison Ave-
nue, New York 22. This booklet is a report of a study of
physical-education facilities for a high school in Mont-
gomery County, Maryland. The study was made possible
by two grants totaling $25,500 by Educational Facilities
Laboratories. It was designed to determine the relative costs
and efiectiveness of a conventional box gymnasium and a

domed fieldhousc.

The results of the study indicated that a domed lieldhouse
could be constructed at a slightly lOWer cost and that it ap-
peared to have greater advantage, especially when used as

an auditorium, than the conventional gymnasium. Sketches
and plans of the buildings and cost estimates are included.

RECREATION

' NEW PUBLICATIONS

 

Leadership in Recreation Service,
Jay Shivers, Ph.D. Macmillan Company,
60 Fifth Avenue, New York 10011.
Pp. 510. $6.95.

Throughout this entire book one feels
that the author is trying to show..the
controversial aspects of leadership and
he does it most successfully. The reader
finds himself pausing to assess his own
ideas on the point at issue. For this
reason, this should be an excellent book
to use in classes in recreation leader-
ship. Practically every chapter presents
material that could be debated in class
and therefore stimulate students to
really think. Any professional in the
field should also take time out to read
this book. There will probably be many
points of disagreement with the author
but this is what makes the book pro-
vocative and challenging.

In the words of G. Ott Romney in the
foreword, “The author . . . has courage-
ously undertaken a monumental task
and has come through with an exhaus-
tive, provocative, enlightened contribu-
tion to an identifiable educational and
functional area of well-being, which in
terms of its leadership is rapidly achiev-
ing professional maturity.” This state-
ment indicates the overall scope of this
volume. The author examines leader-
ship in recreation from four points of
view: the principles, the process, the
personnel, and the methods.

In speaking of principles, Dr. Shivers
indicates that public service has been
organized traditionally in terms of pro-
tective, preventive, and promotional
services; the emphasis being on the first
two with some promotional services,
such as education and conservation and,
more recently, recreation. The basic
concepts expressed refer to recreation
as a “non-debilitating, consummatory
experience . . . involving sensory appre-
ciation, preceptive appreciation and, in
many instances, social communication,
all of which are aspects of learning.”
Because of increased leisure the author
indicates that we need to use as great
or greater care in the selection and de-
velopment of recreation experiences as
we do in the choice of vocational pur-
suits. He defines the role of the rec-
reationist as the leader who “leads peo-
ple at their own pace toward the goal
of recreation.”

In his discussion of public recreation
services, Dr. Shivers points out that
this service still carries a tinge of phi-
lanthropy and, as a consequence, is not
accepted as a service for all people.

APRIL. 1964

Because of this he indicates that we
have few state recreation authorities
and, until recently, no federal authority.
Now, with the establishment of the fed-
eral Bureau of Outdoor Recreation, a
first step has been taken toward gov-
ernment recognition of the need for
these services. He shows, too, that this
lack of a governing authority affects
the status of the leader, indicating that
licensing in accordance with defined
standards is currently almost nonexist-
ent, and that there is, therefore, no
well-defined public image of the rec-
reationist. (See “None Does His Job
Alone,” RECREATION, February 1964.)

The chapters on effective leadership,
the science of leadership, and miscon-
ceptions and challenges of leadership
were particularly interesting. In these
the author makes an excellent point in
his discussion of the power ethic. He
declares that power is not necessarily
evil, allowing that it is only the utiliza-
tion of power for personal gratification
that may lead to evil. He shows also that
a good leader will decentralize power
so that each member of the group has
a potential for having certain power
thus giving a wider spread of respon-
sibility.

The chapter on leadership recruit-
ment and development offers some
suggestions and new approaches. This
section should be read by every pro-
fessional in the field as well as by edu-
cators, for there are suggestions for
both and a clear indication that success
can be achieved only through coordi-
nated action.

The section on early preparation for
leadership is pertinent not only for rec-
reation leadership but in all fields. In
this chapter emphasis is also placed on

varrr )NAL LiBRARY WEEKAPRH. 12-18 ram

 

the need for professionals in the field
to assist in leadership recruitment and
development. A “recreational aide
corps” is suggested as a means to
achieve this. Some of the vocational
interest-finding tests are discussed and
suggested as a means for selecting good
candidates for recreation leadership
training.

The chapters on leadership methods
and techniques, including leadership
evaluation, seemed to this reviewer less
valuable than some of the other sections.
Some new approaches to methods of
leadership are suggested but, in gen-
eral, the basic techniques remain the
same even though new terminology is
used.

The chapter on evaluation seemed the
least valuable in the book. Some evalu-
ation methods are discussed but there
is a lack of the kind of detail that is
so helpful in other parts of the book.
Perhaps this is a result of the lack of
defined standards as the author sug-
gests. However, it would seem that there
is enough material available to enlarge
on this presentation—Edith L. Ball,
Associate Professor, School of Educa-
tion, New York University.

Science for Camp and Counselor,
William T. Harty. Association Press,
29] Broadway, New York 10007. Pp.
320, illustrated. $9.95.

Back in March 1962, RECREATION
published what we thought was an ex-
cellent and much-needed article called
“Re-Thinking Camp Science.” Feeling
that it filled a big gap in camping litera-
ture, we called the article and author
to the attention of the Association Press
and suggested that a book might be pos-
sible. It took almost two years aborn-
ing, but here it is: a big, comprehensive
book that includes a hundred and seven-
teen projects with “complete facts and
directions for using the simplest ma-
terials to explore the world.”

Mr. Harty is a science teacher in West-
wood, Massachusetts, during the school
year. In the summer, he is science direc-
tor for Camp Indian Acres, Fryeburg,
Maine. His uncommissioned photo-
graphs of Sputnik I and the progression
of the 1963 partial eclipse of the sun
were among the first private'photos to
be published in this country.

His book is not for those who think
of science and nature projects at camp
as making a series of simple things like
spatter prints, plaster leaf or animal-
track casts, identifying a certain num-

209

With You?)

135 skilled instruc-
tors in 100 major
cities, coast to

coast.
JUST ASK US!

m: can

Write today for Tandy's big
112 Page Craft Catalog

@tncle

 
  

P. 0. Box 791-CV Fort Worth, Texas

 

 

Twice Olympic Decathlon Champion

I
DON'T
SMOKE

When a man’s in competition, he only
wants fresh air in his lungs. Smoking cuts
down on wind. And an athlete needs wind
as much as he needs his legs.

Athletes in top condition don’t smoke——
they can't afford to. Bob Mathias

AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY
210

 

ber of trees, flowers, or birds, or making
seed necklaces, et cetera. For the camp
director and nature counselor who en-
courages children to ask about sunspots,
what makes a rocket go, how to photo-
graph underwater, how to build a
weather computer, measure the moon’s
diameter, what is a transistor, how to
build a geiger counter, what is a binary
number system, et cetera—this book is
the answer.

It is divided into nine major sections
or chapters, each with a number of
projects. These sections deal with mete-
orology, photography, astronomy, geo-
logy, plants, animals, mathematics, and
electricity and electronics. The author
emphasizes that no camp can institute a
complete science program in one season,
but it can make a fine start without too
much expenditure.

No one can plead the case of a good
nature-science program more strongly
than Mr. Harty when he says, “Science
is one of the fields in which the young-
ster can get out of what has been called
the ‘junior rat race’ of competing and
performing in numerous organizations
and activities. It offers him one of the
few times when he can fulfill one of the
basic purposes of childhood. that of dis-
covery. He will get no medals, bronze
statues, engraved paddles, or applause,
just satisfaction.”

At the beginning of each section
Mr. Harty has listed several suggested
references, usually very inexpensive
sources of additional information. In
the appendix, he has prepared a classi-
fied bibliography of selected reference
books, magazines, paperbacks, and sup-
pliers of general science materials. An
index completes this very thorough, un-
usual, and potentially important addi-
tion to camp literature. Needless to say.
one does not have to be in camp to per-
form these projects and make these ex-
periments. Many of them can be done
at home, in the indoor center, on the
playground—wherever a curious child
meets an interested adult—V. M.

On Surfing, Grant W. Kuhns. Charles
E. Tuttle Company, Rutland, Vermont.
Pp. 120, illustrated. $3.95.

Surf-riding, or surfing as it is usually
called, is growing steadily in popularity,
influenced no doubt by movies, TV, and
the enthusiastic reports of those who
have seen or experienced it in Hawaii,
California, Oregon, Australia. Peru,
South Africa, and New Zealand. Until
recently, surfing literature of the how-
to-do-it variety was almost nonexistent.

The authOr is a surfing enthusiast.
He has a MS in physical education from
the University of Southern California,
served with the U.S. Army in Korea,

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

is now on the engineering staff of Con-
solidated Rock Products Company and
a member of the San Onofre Surfing
Club of San Clements, California, and
the US. Surfing Association in Laguna
Beach, California. With this back-
ground and training, he is well equip-
ped to analyze surfing from both the
kinesthetic and the mechanical point of
v1ew.

According to legend, surfing is about
four hundred years old, developed as
a tribal ceremony in Polynesia. The
modern version of the sport got its im-
petus about ten years ago with the in-
vention of the lightweight, easy-to-
handle balsawood and fiberglass surf-
boards, which revolutionized the sport.
That, plus the development of road net-
works and the increasing mobility of
Americans, has been responsible for the
tremendous growth in popularity in
this country.

Why surfing? Mr. Kuhns sums it up
with “. . . it is a great ego-builder, not
only for those who can actually domi-
nate the waves, but also for those with
the courage to try.” To a surfer, his
sport involves speed and height similar
to skiing, but is all the more exciting
because it is outside his normal element.
It has no age limits. It depends not just
on muscle, but on timing, balance, and
rhythm. It can be a test of courage and
skill, or just a lazy, restful enjoyment
of sea and sun, according to Mr. Kuhns.

The author gives specific recommen-
dations on the selection of equipment,
and then plunges into detailed instruc-
tion. He illustrates each step with sim-
ple line drawings, and the exciting pho-
tographs of Greg Noll add flavor to the
instructions. An appendix gives infor-
mation about surfing locations in vari-
ous parts of the world, surfing competi-
tions, names and addresses of manu-
facturers of surfing equipment, and a
glossary of surfing terms.

IN BRIEF

CERAMIC PROJECTS. ~Professional Pub-
lications, I 110., 4175 North High Street,
Columbus 14, Ohio. Pp. 64, illustrated.
Paper, $2.00. This is an excellent
source book for all workers in clay and
is full of rather novel ideas which could
help put the imagination of recreation
leaders to work on other ideas. It is
full of good solid information with clear
photographs in black-and-white show-
ing the necessary steps for the making
of good ceramic ware. Although these
articles appeared originally in Ceramic
Monthly Magazine, it is good to have
them all together in pamphlet form. I
would think this might be a must for
teachers, students, and recreation lead-
ers—Mary B. Cummings.

RECREATION

M

BOOKS 8. PAMPHLETS RECEIVED

#

AMERICANA

ABC Book of Early Americana, Eric SIOOne. Dou-
bleday, 575 Madison Ave., New York 10022.

Unpaged. $2.95.

American Indian Storg, The, May _McNeer and
Lynd Ward. Ariel ooks, 19 UnIon Sq., New
York 10003. Pp. 95. $4.25.

Amish Folk, The, Vincent R. Tortora. Photo Arts
Press, P.O. Box 1274, Lancaster, Pa. Pp. 34.

Paper, $1.00.

Early American Furniture, James M. O'Neill. Mc-
Knight Cr McKnight, US Rt. 66 at Towanda
Ave., Bloomington, III. Pp. 141. $6.00.

Famous Pioneers, Franklin Folson. Harvey House,
Irvington-on-Hudson, N. Y. Pp. 251. $3.50.

Five Centuries of American Costume, R. Turner
Wilcox. Charles Scribner’s Sons, 597 5th Ave.,
New York 10017. Pp. 207. $6.50.

Heroines of the American Revolution. Univ. of
Tennessee, Extension Library, Box 8540, Knox-
ville. Pp. 16. Paper, $1.00.

North American Indians, The, Ernest Berke. Dou-
bleday, 575 Madison Ave., New York 10022.

Pp. 64. $3.75.

Noted American Duels and Hostile Encounters,
Hamilton Cochran. Chilton Books, E. Washing-
ton Sq., Philadelphia 6. Pp. 319. $6.95.

Pennsylvania Dutch Country and Amish Land,
The. Photo Arts Press, Box 1274B, Lancaster,
Pa. Unpaged. Paper, $.75.

Pennsylvania Dutch Tourist Map. Photo Arts Co.,
Box 1274B, Lancaster, Pa. $.25.

Pictorial History of the Great Lakes, A. Harlan
Hatcher and Erich A. Walter. Crown Publ., 419
Park Ave. 5., New York 10016. Pp. 344. $10.00.

Southern Heroes, Heroines and Legends. Univ. of
Tennessee, Extension Library, Box 8540, Knox-
ville. Pp. 40. Paper, $1.00.

Song of Hiawatha, The, Hen WadsworthLong-
fellow. Platt and Munk, 00 5th Ave., New
York 10010. Pp. 214. $2.95.

CHURCH

Creative Religion, Marshall E. DimOck. Beacon
Press, 25 Beacon St., Boston 8. Pp. 133. $3.50.

How to Put Church Members to Work, Margaret
Donaldson. Fleming H. Revell, Booker St., West-
wood, N.J. Pp. 63. Paper, $1.00.

Living the Christian Life, Dale Lehman. Warner
Press, 1200 E. 5th St., Anderson, ind. Pp. 96.
Paper, $1.25.

Worship Services for Special Days, David E.
Martin. Warner Press, Anderson, Ind. Pp. 96.
Paper, $1.25.

DANCE, DRAMA, MUSIC

Acting and Stage Movement, Edwin White and
Marguerite Battye. Arco Publ., 480 Lexington
Ave., New York 10017. Pp. 182. Paper, $.95.

Aida (libretto), Giuseppe Verdi. Dover Publ., 180

Varick St., New York 10014. Pp. 147. Paper,
$1.00.

American Indian Dances, John L. Squires and
Robert E. McLean. Ronald Press, 15 E. 26th St.,
New York 10010. Pp. 132. $4.50.

American Negro Songs and Spirituals, John W.
Work, Editor. Bonanza Books, 419 Park Ave. 5.,
New York 10016. Pp. 256. $5.00.

American Play-Party Songs, The, B. A. Botkin.
Frederick Ungar Publ., 131 E. 23rd St., New
York 10010. Pp. 400. $7.50.

Amateur Stage Makeup, James Morris. Sportshelf,
P.O. Box 634, New Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 39. $2.50.

American Vaudeville, Douglas Gilbert. Dover

Publ., 180 Varick St., New York 10014. Pp.
428. Paper, $2.00.

Ballroom Dancing, Alex Moore. Pitman Publ.,
20 E. 46th St., New York 1001'], Pp. 323. $3.50.

Betty White's Teen—Age Dance Book, Betty White.
Dawd McKay 119 W. 40th St., New York
10018. Pp. 263. $5.95.

Chord Encyclopedia for All Instruments, Albert
de Vito. Kenyon Publ., 1841 Broadway, New
York 10023. Pp. 81. Paper, $3.00.

Come far to Sing, Eric Van Schmidt. Houghton
MifflIn, 2 Park St., Boston 7. Pp. 48. $3.25.

Craft of Play Directing, The, Curtis Canfield. Holt,
Rinehart and Winston, 383 Madison Ave., New
York 10017. Pp. 349. $6.00.

Great American Faik Sangs, Jim Morse, Editor.

Bell Publ., 750 3rd Ave., New York 10017.
Pp. 255. $.50.

Guide ta the Ballet, Hans Verwer. Barnes & Noble,
105 5th Ave., New York 10003. Pp. 201. $3.95.
Paper, $1.50.

Haw ta Lead Infarmal Singing, Robert O. Hoffelt,
Abington Press, Nashville 2, Tenn. Pp. 111.
Paper, $1.50.

La Baheme (libretto), Giacomo Puccini. Dover

APRIL, 1964

Publ., 180 Varick St., New York 10014. Pp. 124.
Paper, $1.00.

Let’s Do Fingerplays Marion F. Grayson. David
McKa , 119 W. 40th St., New York 10018. Pp.

109. 4.50.

Music Across Our Country (rev.), Irving Wolfe,
Beatrice Perham Krone, and Margaret Fullerton.
Follett Publ., 1010 W. Washington Blvd., ChI-

cago 7. Pp. 192. $2.60.

Music 'Round the Clock (rev.), lrvlng Wolfe,
Margaret Fullerton and Beatrice Perham Krone.
Follett Publ., 1010 W. Washington Blvd., ChI-
cago 7. Pp. 96. $2.16.

Music Round the Town (rev.), Irving Wolfe Bea-
trice Perham Krone and Margaret FulIerton.
Follett Publ., 1010 W. Washington Blvd., ChI-

cago 7. Pp. 144. $2.48.

Music Through the Year, lrvlng Wolfe, Margaret
Fullerton and Beatrice Perham Krone. Follett
Publ., 1010 W. Washington Blvd., Chicago 7.
Pp. 192. $2.52.

Negra Songs from Alabama, Harold Courlander,
Editor. Oak Publ., 121 W. 47th St., New York

10036. Pp. ii 1. Paper, $2.95.

Old Time and Sequence Dancing, Michael Gwynne.
Sport'shelf P.O. Box 634, New Rochelle, N.Y.
Pp. 302. 4.25.

On Stage, Children, Erva Loomis Merow. Carlton
Press, 84 5th Ave., New York. Pp. 130. $3.50.

Peddler's Dream and Other Plans, The, James
Reeves. E. P. Dutton, 201 Par Ave. 5., New
York 10003. Pp. 96. $2.95.

Plays That Sing, Margaret Wardlaw Gilbert. John
$D§3gb62 W. 45th St., New York 10036. Pp. 64.

Producing Pantomime and Revue, ivan Butler.
Sportshelf, PO. Box 634, New Rochelle, N.Y.
Pp. 90. $1.50.

Production and Staging of Plays, The, Conrad
Carter, A. J. Bradbury and W. R. B. Howard.
Arco Publ., 480 Lexmgton Ave., New York
10017. Pp. 186. $.95.

Rehearsal (4th ed.), Miriam A. Franklin, Pren-

tice-Hall, Engiewood Cliffs, N.J. Pp. 282. Spiral-
bound, $6.95.

Singing Family Of the Cumberlands, Jean Ritchie.
Oak Publ., 121 W. 47th St., New York 10036.
Pp. 258. Paper, $2.95.

Same Spanish Ballads, W. S. Merwin. Abelard-
Schuman, 6 W. 57th St., New York 10019.
Pp. 127. $3.50.

Sweet Music, Helga Sandburg. Dial Press, 461
Park Ave. S., New York 10016. Pp. 180. $6.95.

Unfinished Symphony and Other Stories of Men
and Music, Freda Poster Berkowitz. Atheneum
 162 E. 38th St., New York 10016. Pp. 228.

Viking Book Of Folk Ballads, The, Albert B.
Friedman, Editor. Viking Press, 625 Madison
Ave., New York 10022. Pp. 469. Paper, $2.25.

Voice and Speech in the Theatre, J. Clifford
Turner. Sportshelf, P.O. Box 634, New Rochelle,
N.Y. Pp. 148. $5.50.

Yaung Folk Song Baak. Simon and Schuster, 630

5th Ave., New York 10020. Pp. 112. Paper,
$2.95.

FOLKLORE

Body, Boots and Britches, Harold W. Thom son.
Dover Publ., 180 Varick St., New York 1 14.
Pp. 530. Paper. $2.00.

Folkways, William Graham Sumner. New Ameri-
can LIbrary, 501 Madison Ave., New York
10022. Pp. 605. Paper, $.75.

Folklore Keeps the Past Alive, Arthur Palmer Hud-

son. Univ. of Georgia Press, Athens, Ga. Pp.
63. $2.50.

LAND USE, URBAN DEVELOPMENT

Face of _the Metropolis, Martin Meyerson, with
JaqueIIne Tyrwhitt, Brian Falk, Patricia Sekler.
Random House, 457 Madison Ave., New YOrk
10022. Pp. 249. Paper, $2.95.

Land and Water for Recreation, Marion Clawson.
Rand McNally P.O. Box 7600, Chicago 80. Pp.
144. Paper,$ .25.

Land for Americans, Marion Clawson. Rand Mc-

Nally, PO. Box 7600, Chicago 80. Pp. 141.
Paper, $2.25.

Land Use Policy and Problems in the U.S., Howard
W. Ottoson. Univ. of Nebraska Press, Lincoln 8.
Pp. 470. $6.00.

Learning to Live in a Middle income Cooperative.
Play Schools Assn., 120 W. 57th St., New York
10019. Pp. 28. $.35.

Man and the Modern City, Elizabeth Geen, Jeanne
R. Lowe, Kenneth Walker, Editors. Univ. of
Pittsburgh Press, 3309 Cathedral of Learning,
Pittsburgh 13. Pp. 134. Paper, $1.25.

Mastery of the Metrapaiis, Webb. 5. Fiser. Pren-
tice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, N. J. Pp. 168. Pa-
per, $1.95.

Prafiie af 0 Metrapaiis: A Case Book, Robert .J.
Mowitz and Deii S. Wright. Wayne State Univ.
Press, Detroit 2. Pp. 688. $9.50 (paper, $4.95.).

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

AWARD
RIBBONS

A COMPLETE SELECTION OF
SILK SATIN
FINEST QUALITY RIBBONS
FOR ALL NEEDS

O
TRACK
WRESTLING
PLAYGROUND '
COINS
SPECIALS

SWIMMING
OFFICIALS
SPEECH

SCIENCE

O
HONOR 'YOUR WINNERS with
the best . . . gold leaf stamped,
siik satin ribbons made to your
Specifications.

Write for full ,7
information

Award Ribbon Specialists
P.O. BOX 207, GOSHEN, INDIANA

 

NEW! ALL-AMERICAN

FIELD MARKER

Saves Time
 and Money!

Assures
Bright, Even
Field lines!

Versatile, pressure
operated, the American
Marker has 4-gaiian
pressure tank with
"snap-Off" top, side
marking guide and will
handle any marking
iOb quickly and easily,
using American con-
centrated vinyl marking
paint.

 

 

   
 
 
   
  
   

School Price

$5950

Write for our 1964
Catalog

ATHLETIC EQUIPMENT

 

AMERICAN ATHLETIC EQUIPMENT CO.

JEFFERSON, IOWA, u. s. A.

 

211

Urban Renewal Politics, Harold Kaplan. Columbia
Univ. Press, 2960 Broadway, New York 10027.
Pp. 219. $6.75.

Wilderness and Recreation: A Report on Re-
sources, Values, and Problems. Sierra Club,

Mills Tower, San Francisco. Pp. 352. $5.75.
SPORTS, PHYSICAL EDUCATION, FITNESS

Advanced Gymnastics for Women, June Allison.
Sportshelf, P.O. Box 634, New Rochelle, N.Y.
Pp. 168. $4.25.

American Football League, Al Ward and Jack
Harrigan. Sporting News, 2018 Washington
Ave., St. Louis 66. Pp. 96. Paper, $1.00.

Art of Riding, The, Lt. Col. M. F. McTaggart.
Arco Publ., 480 Lexington Ave., New York
10017. Pp. 127. $2.50.

Athletics, Peter Bird. Sportshelf, P. O. Box 634,
New Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 91. $1.50.

Baseball Coach's Guide to Drills and Skills, Danny
Litwhiler. Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, NJ.
Pp. 236. $5.35.

Baseball's Greatest Players Today, Jack Orr, Edi-
tor. J. Lowell Pratt, 137 E. 57th St., New York
10022. Pp. 150. Paper, $.50.

Basic Weight Training, AI Murray, Sportshelf,
$13.30.5Box 634, New Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 126.
.7 .

Basketball Is My Life, Bob Cousy. J. Lowell Pratt,
137 E. 57th St., New York 10022. Pp. 168. $.50.

Best Sports Stories 1963, Irving T. Marsh and
Edward Ehre, Editors. E. P. Button, 201 Park
Ave. 5., New York 10003. Pp. 336. $4.50.

Body Building and Self-Defense, Myles Callum.
Barnes Cr Noble, 105 5th Ave., New York 10003.
Pp. 141. Paper, $1.25.

Book of Sports Information, Tom Harmon.
J. Lowell Pratt, 137 E. 57th St., New York
10022. Pp. 152. $.50.

Boxing, Ron Olver and Tim Riley. Sportshelf,
PO. Box 634, New Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 92. $1.50.

 

Boys’ Baseball Book, The, Mickey Owen and Frank
Farmer. Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, NJ.

Pp. 208. $3.95.

Individual Sports for Women (4th ed.), Dorothy
S. Ainsworth, Editor. W. B. Saunders, W. Wash-

ington Sq., Philadelphia 5. Pp. 326. $7.00.

Instructions in Rowing, Desmond Hill. Sportshelf,
P.O. Box 634, New Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 100.

$3.75.

International Football Book No. 5. Ernest Hecht
and Stratton Smith, Editors. Sportshelf, PO.
Box 634, New Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 136. $4.25.

Judo and Self-Defense, E. G. Bartlett. Arco Publ.,
480 Lexington Ave., New York 10017. Pp. 199.

Paper, $1.45.

Jumping Round the World, Pat Smythe. Arco
Publ., 480 Lexington Ave., New York 10017.
Pp. 221. $3.50.

Knotty Problems of Baseball. Sporting News,
2018 Washington Ave., St. Louis, Mo. Pp. 88.
Paper, $2.00.

Laughter on Two Wheels (bicycling), Rex Coley.
Sportshelf, P.O. Box 634, New Rochelle, N.Y.
Pp. 174. $5.00.

Lawn Tennis, Mike Davies. Arco Publ. 480 Lex-
ington Ave., New York 10017. Pp. 143. $2.50.

Master Key to Success at Golf, The, Leslie King.
Harper Cr Row, 49 E. 33rd St., New York 10016.

Pp. 157. $3.95.

Modern Long Distance Swimming, Gerald Forsberg.
Sportshelf, P.O. Box 634, New Rochelle, N.Y.

Pp. 230. $8.00.

Motor Boating and Water Skiing. Sportshelf, P.O.
Box 634, New Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 48. Paper,

$1.25.

New Fisherman's Encyclopedia, The, (2nd ed.),
Ira F. Gabrielson. Stackpole Co., Telegraph
Press Bldg., Cameron Cr Kelker Sts., Box 1821,
Harrisburg, Pa. Pp. 759. $17.50.

Physical Education for Boys and Young Men,
Vol. I, D. Cyril Joynson. Sportshelf, P.O. Box

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING

RATES: Words in regular type $.15 each
Words in boldface type $.25 each
RATES: Minimum ad accepted .. . . $3.00

DEADLINES: Copy must be received by
the fifth of the month preceding date of

the issue in which ad is desired.

COPY: Type—or clearly print—your message and the address to which you wish
replies sent. Underline any words you want to appear in boldface type.

Send copy with remittance to:

 

Rscusnum Classified Advertising, 8 West 8th Street, New York. New York 10011.

H ELP WANTED

Salesman. Largest manu-
facturer and distributor of
arts and crafts materials in
the East is looking for part-

Sacramento,
95814.

fornia State Personnel
Board, 801 Capitol Mall,
California

Columbus, Indiana. Ex-

Wanted: Manager for new
community - owned recrea-
tion center. Center includes
50-mcter outdoor pool, ten-
nis courts, play area, wad-
and enclosed

time salesmen for southern
states and Pennsylvania.
Michigan, Ohio, Illinois.
and Indiana to call on rec-
reation facilities and
camps. Commission basis.
Selected territories are
available. Must have ex-
perience. Please send de-
tails to Box R13. RECREA-
TION Magazine, 8 West 8th
Street. New York 10011.

Therapists [or California
State Hospitals. Opportu-
nities to plan and conduct
individual patient recrea-

tion as well as special
group act ivities: modern
equipment and facilities.

Positions open to college-
graduates with major in
recreation or recreation

therapy including super-
vised lield work. Salary
range: $486 to $590 a

month. Promotional oppor-
tunities.attractiveemployee
benefits. Write: Medical
Personnel Services. Cali-

ecutive Director—Girls
Club. Position open for
college graduate with ma-
jor in recreation or allied
fields. Plan, organize, and
direct building - centered
program for girls from 8-
18. Starting salary to com-
mensurate with experience
and qualifications. Write
to Larry Clark, % Golden
Foundry, Columbus, Indi-
ana.

Manufacturers Repre-
sentatives Wanted for a
proven line of Regulation
Marking Buoys used on
ALL waterways. Product’s
superiority makes selling a
p"easure. Protected selling
areas available throughout
the East, Midwest, North-
west. Write for details im-
mediately. Please include
description of your com-
pany. Arben Engineering

Co., 5283 W. Pico Blvd.,
Los Angeles 19, California.

ing pool,
ice arena. Send complete
personal resume to Town
of Amherst, Recreation
Commission, 1042 North
Forest Road, Williamsville
21, New York. Salary about
$7,000.

Recreation Therapist to
work on fifty-bed Psychi-
atric Unit with Occupa-
tional Therapy and other

treatment staff. Apply:
Geraldine Shevlin, Head,

Division of Occupational

Therapy, University Hos-
pital, Seattle 5, Washing-
ton.

RETIREMENT LIVING
Over 62? Enjoy inde-
pendent rctircment liv-
ing—lovely two-bedroom
houses. Only $30 monthly,
or $4,960 cash for life
leases. Ohio Church Resi-
dences, Inc., 111 Wendy

Lane, Bristol Village, Wa-
verly, Ohio.

The publisher ans-urn" no responsibility {0? services or items advertised here.

212

634, New Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 320. $6.75.

Power and Soil, Constance and William Lydgate.
Macmillan, 60 5th Ave., New Yark 10011.
Pp. 266. $4.95.

Winning Basketball Plays (2nd ed.), Clair Bee,
Editor. Ronald Press, 15 E. 26th St., New York
10010. Pp. 335. $5.50.

Young Sportsman's Guide to Football, The, Clary
Anderson. Thos. Nelson, 18 E. 4lst St., New
York 10017. Pp. 96. $2.75.

Young Sportsman's Guide to Scuba Diving, The,
Van Ellman. Thos. Nelson, 18 E. 4lst St., New
York 10017. Pp. 94. $2.75.

Young Sportsman's Guide to Soccer, The, Bill
Jeffrey. Thos. Nelson, 18 E. 4lst St., New York
10017. Pp. 96. $2.75.

Young Sportsman's Guide to Wrestling, The,
Frank Gardner. Thos. Nelson, 18 E. 4lst St.,
New York 10017. Pp. 96. $2.75.

YMCA Guide to Adult Fitness, The, Association
Press, 291 Broadway, New York 10017. Pp. 127.
Paper, $1.95.

STORYBOOKS

Herman the Loser, Russell Hoban. Harper and
Row, 49 E. 33rd St., New York 16. Pp. 32. $1.95.

Hop on Pop, Dr. SeUSs. Random House, 457 Madi-
son Ave., New York 22. Pp. 64. $1.95.

How Do You Get From Here to There? Nicholas
Charles. MOCmillan 60 5th Ave., New York
11. Unpaged. $195.

How Would You Act?, Ruth and Stan Brod. Rand
McNaIly 405 Park Ave., New York 22. Un-
paged. 2.75.

Golden Polite Elephant Book, Sleepy Teddy Book,
Color with Kitty Book, Happy Puppy Book.
Golden Press, 630 5th Ave., New York 20. Un-
paged cut-Out picture-story books. $1.49 each.

Golden Train Book. Golden Press, 850 3rd Ave-
nue, New York. Unpaged. $1.49.

Sun Is a Star, The, Sune Engelbrektson. Holt,
Rinehart and Winston, 383 Madison Ave., New
York 17. Unpaged. $1.95.

Susan Sometimes, Phyllis Krasilovskg. Macmillan,
60 5th Ave., New York 11. Pp. 1. $1.95.

UNITED STATES: TRAVEL and DESCRIPTION

Genesee, The, Henry W. Clune. Holt, Rinehart
and Winston, 383 Madison Ave., New York 17.
Pp. 338. $6.00.

Hawaii: A Book to Begin On, Juliet Morgan Swen-
son. Holt, Rinehart Gr Winston, 383 Madison
Ave., New York 17. Unpaged. $2.50.

MOBIL TRAVEL GUIDES 1963/1964: Northeast-
ern States, pp. 462; California and the West,
pp. 444,‘ Southwest and South Central Area, pp.
428; Great Lakes Area, p . 398; Northwest and
Great Plains States, pp. 4 0. Paper, $1.50 each.
 and Schuster, 630 5th Ave., New York

Pacific Northwest and British Columbia. Lane
EpogksCoq Menlo Park, Calif. Pp. 173. Paper,

 

MAGAZINE ARTICLES

 

ARTS AND ACTIVITIES, February 1964
Adventures in Nature's Fantastic Menagerie,
Robin Batcheller.
Defining Artistic Creativity, Roy E. Dodson.
Young Printers Swing with String, Gerald F.
Brommer.
Printing with Yarn, Edith Brockway.

MUSIICQGEDUCATORS JOURNAL, February-March
Why Johnny Wants to Sing, Lois Gordon.
MIIJ-SIC in a Science-Centered Age, William C.

ong.
The Arts and American Education, Finis
Engleman.

NEA JOURNAL, February 1964
Modern Architecture, Edward Durell Stone.
Play It Safe, Phyllis Reynold Tedesco.
Your Child's Mental Health (16-page insert),
William W. Wallenberg.

PTA MAGAZINE, March 1964
The Cost of Conformit , Raymond Squires.
Glue Sniffing, William . Bridges.
Children's Fears and Phobias, Hunter H.
Comly, MD.
The Affluent Child, Dale and Elizabeth Harris.

SAFETY EDUCATION, March 1964
Preventing Playtime Accidents.

WOMAN'S DAY, March 1964
The Magnificent Misfit Called Audubon.
The Wonderful World of Circus.
Calendar for Convalescence, Jacqueline Conant
Whipple.
Pine Planter (workshop project).
A Christmas Gift from Your Garden, Mildred

 

Bierman.
, April 1964
Paintings in Yarn: The Colcha Stitch, Rebecca
James.

Gulde to Good Gardening: 200 Ways To Be
a Better Gardener, Jean Hersey.

RECREATION

roll it in . . . . PLAY
FORCEFUL roll it out . . .TUCK IT AWAY

COMMUNICATION

   

VISUAL RESOURCES

N inety-one page spiralhound manual
written for the
Eighth Annual National Institute

In
_ _ o _ Any room can become a game room in seconds with th 8'
Recreatlon AdmlnlStl‘allon TUCK-AWAY. It rolls and unfolds quickly, safely. Excfusilsg
by “Floating Fold” enables one person to open or close the
table in 3 seconds. Full regulation size—yet folds to only
Theodore R. Deppe 18” x 60” for storing. USTTA approved for oliicial tourna-
Janet R. MacLean ment play. The TUCK-AWAY provides an efficient solution
to the need for leisure time relaxation—in industry, hotels,
Harvey R. Frye schools, hospitals, and other institutions. Get complete
$2 50 information on the TUCK-AWAY by writing.
National Recreation Association  MAN
UFACTURING COMPANY, INC.
8 West 8th Street New York, N. Y- 10011 5215 Eden Ave. 80., Minneapolis, Minn., Dept. 405

 

SUDDENLY...a Swing
Becomes MORE FUN!

Even a little tyke can create his own excitement with
the new Walker Swing & Starter. Already safely seat—
ed, he climbs the arc and launches from any height.

Park boards are enthusiastic wherever this equip-
ment has been playground tested (for more than two
years). It needs no supervision and a minimum of
maintenance.

Safe? Absolutely!

So foolproof, it’s fully insurable! Once the child swings,
the Starter instantly retracts and locks beyond reach.

First unveiled at the 1961 Recreation Congress,
Walker Swings & Starters are available in swing sizes
6, 10, and 12 ft. Write for. free literature and prices.
Dealer inquiries invited.

Who needs Daddy? Because the patented Walker

Swing & Starter eliminates pushing or tediously

. . building momentum, it's an instant hit on any play-
MANUFACTUR'NG co' ground. Encourages “rotation” . . . requires no

supervision . . . prevents accidents. The first real
innovation in playground swings since Hector was
214 W- Mable/Odessa. Texas a pup. Three sizes for all ages.

Phone FEderal 2-9745

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 All PATHS 151400...

The Perfect
"Centerpiece"
For Every
Playground

Here's the center of attraction on thousands of playgrounds from
coast to coast! Miracle has taken many forms of playground equip-
ment and combined them into one colorful, rugged unit. There are
two climbers, a stainless steel slide, a stairway and a “lookout”
tower . . . all-in-one! Colorful fiber glass roof adds the finishing
touch. Imaginative design suggests numerous creative play ideas
to keep young minds busy for hours. And don't overlook the many
body-building features, too. No playground is complete without
the Miracle Jack 'n Jill. (Model JJ-ll

~ ‘
MIRACLE DOME VIIIRL—colorful, all-weather fiber glass
whirl provides loads of fun and good exercise. Rotates
parallel to ground so children can step on or off while

whirl is in motion. Sixteen individual booths prevent over-‘
loading. (Model 304)

MIRACLE TRAIL BLAZER SUITE—you

can stop worrying about accidents

When you install this slide. Stairway
is much safer than con-
ventional ladder and gives
smaller children more
security. Fiber glass tun-
nel adds interest d
prevents stand-up slid’id.
One-piece frame mo
of perma-color, buy
duty fiber glass with - .
slip floor plate on st r-
way and pre-slide pl t-
form. Stainless steel bed- i

way. Larger model also_
available. (bdel T840) '

MIRACLE PLAYGROUND EQUIPMEN!

Pleas. send me chmln

NAME

ADDRESS

CITY.

Btu 275-C, Grlnnell, Iowa

nerature and price list.

SIAIE

MIRACLE EARN-A-SLIDEu
look, no steps! To
get a slide, you
have to. earn it!
Maintenance-free

stainless steel sur-
face. (Model ES-2I

 

 

MIRACLE SPIDER CLIMB—climb
up the “web” . . . slide down
the poles. Imaginative climber

is an exellent body-builder, too.
(Model SP-l)

MIRACLE WAVE SLIDE and TOWER
CLIMBER—Fiber glass slide with
stainless steel bedway is designed
to fit existing 8' high slide or our
p0pular tower climber. (Model 386)

   

MIRACLE ALL-PURPOSE SHELTER
——permanent, all-weather struc-
ture is ideal for craft meetings,

group picnics, vehicle storage,
etc. (Model PS—18I

MIRACLE PIC-SNACK TABLE—sanitary
t0p and seats of splinter-free, main-
tenance-free fiber glass. (Model PSN)

