E C REATIO

ATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION 0 JUNE 1964 0

 
     
    
   

 

_ O‘-‘
\

. '- - '- rt ; I
, ‘° - .-.
’ ‘5; _- _. 0.. 4|
“ ' ‘ ‘ ‘ V . I-V'  I. ‘
. ‘ ‘ 3'«"‘J ‘a—-* '3 9" ‘A.-' t'
_ _.‘ ‘ie V.
° ° 0 l r .' "I" '0 ‘
.3, f2
"A if. It ‘ . f a
k” . . --3
cu m . “'3‘ .8»: P
. ’
O

‘ Have nopww

;---

    
 

d  I’IOUSBS 50 CouICIya/ }
'4',- l_,.«'.\ ' .
a '  5C‘I‘CISIOI6 some

4! . I. r
‘. .
u u} D: _

  
  

Nothing Less Than

The Best Equipment
Is Good Enough-

     
  

).1> For The Finest,
Strongest, Safest
and Most Durable

SPECIFY

   

 

 

1

_;AMERICAN
Xemnovsn
' PARK and PICNIC,

.E- ‘, PLAYGROUND

AND SWIMMING
POOL EQUIPMENT

 

Since 1911 the recognized standard of
excellence in construction and salety.
You are sure of the best trom American.

 

 
 
  
  

AMERICAN

PLAYGROUND DEVICE CO.
ANDERSON, INDIANA, U. S. A.

WORLD'S LARGEST MANUFACTURERS OF FINE
PARK. PICNIC. PLAYGROUND. SWIMMING
POOL AND DRESSING ROOM EQUIPMENT

at: COMPLETE

LITERATURE

mailed promptly
on your request.

roll it in . . . . PLAY
'roll 27507145.. .TUCK IT AWAY

sl}

 

 

 

Any room can become a game room in seconds with the Sico
TUCK-AWAY. It rolls and unfolds quickly, safely. Exclusive
“Floating Fold” enables one person to Open or close the
table in 3 seconds. Full regulation size—yet folds to only
18” x 60” for storing. USTTA approved for ofEcial tourna-
ment play. The TUCK—AWAY provides an efEcient solution
to the need for leisure time relaxation—in industry, hotels,
schools, hospitals, and other institutions. Get complete
information on the TUCK-AWAY by writing.

 MANUFACTURING COMPANY, INC.

5215 Eden Ave. 80., Minneapolis, Minn., Dept. 405

 

   

 

        

. _-...A.-...._. _.__.... ...--....-_A_.._-.—_.. 1......

 

-.‘

v

\V'lu-n writin In our advertisers please mention Rscnmrmx.

  

More FUN, More ACTION, More GAMES

Better equipment means better instruction, better practice, better games.
Here’s quality equipment that adds extra action, extra fun for everyone. Rugged
all—weather units are built for heavyuduty use and abuse—guaranteed to give
trouble—free service for years.

    
   
     
      

 

55..
as.
a -
7

III
I
I!

:‘1

 
   
 
  

'82!
- nan-nu!
4-an
.. £-
E
i

‘1

.g.‘

.e _
(Eh :. r ..
H‘I r

1::5":
J
j V.
r?
H
as

sets up in 50 seconds.

3 Rugged two-post net frame
is instantly adjustable
for regulation volleyball,
tennis or badminton.

’ g Lightweight, portable,
5 i free-standing—
does not require
floor fastenings,
tie-backs or cables.

egg!
r: ..
s.
FIE
I...

  
 

i I
H!

  
     
 
 

3
'3'
.-

'izl
rear,
3.95%»

4“

1’ -

          
 
   
   
   
   
 
    

I READY-NET
I

BALL-BUY

automatically delivers

720 balls an hour—
enough fun

30' frame $118; .
Special 3-game fand practice
nylon net $39. of everyone.

Pinpoint accuracy:
delivers lobs,
drives or
drop shots—-
at any speed
to any spot
on the court.
Controlled by
foot switch.
Rugged steel
construction.

$395.

ADVUHDDV dO'L-‘MSIO 01 ADYUDDDV 33”

$3
..._..

. * RE-BUUND-NET

puts tennis fun
everywhere
——indoors or out-
on any level area

as small as 12'x15’.
‘must’ for rainy days.
Nylon net duplicates
actual game play:
soaks up time,
allows get-ready pause.
For beginners or
advanced players.

10' net $125; 20’ net $195.

l

   

r--------------------‘

I  Coumc. 0 27-2 MILBURN DR.,BRONXVILLE,N.Y. 0 com; 914.05 7.0047

All Ball-Boy products are fully guaranteed.They are available only BALL-BOY Check or Money I
by direct purchase from the company. machlne D Order Enc|osed I

I RE—BOUND-NET
I  "AME—MT'TLEw 10' or 20'size D Please bill us
SCHOOL 0R COMPANY________________._ READYNET I
. 30'or40'size El SendC-O-D-
STREET______________________.._.___.. l
E] Special Nylon Net E] Send only

CITY____________ STATE for READY-NET information
L--------------------

JUNE, 1964 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 257

 

June 1964

RE CREATION

 

 

 

VOL. LVII NO. 6 PRICE 60:
THE MAGAZINE OF THE RECREATION MOVEMENT
GENERAL
Have We a Land Conscience? (Editorial) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 260

Let’s put a stop to progressive uglification
Parks and Recreation Showcase at the Fair . . . . Stuart Constable 267
What to see at the W orld’ s Fair now and hereafter

Policy for County Parks and Recreation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 270
The special role of the county in an age of expanding leisure

State Recreation Menu . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . William H. Radke 272
Kentucky offers a summer of planned programs

Gulf Streamed Recreation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Art Peavy 275
Dade County, Florida, launches a comprehensive program

Small Watershed Projects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hollis R. Williams 276
Conservation areas as one answer to popularity of water recreation

Multi-Level Zoo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 279
Los A ngeles plans a distinctive new facility

SPECIAL SUPPLEMENT: THIS IS YOUR NRA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 283

PROGRAM

Fun and Fitness, Part II . Dorothea Graham, Vincent Bellew,

Joseph Seavey 280
Summer sports play their part in well-balanced program

Family Campus on the Mountaintop . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 299
Vacation cultural center ojfers program for all ages

Action for Aging . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mrs. Carter Clapton 300
Leadership training for volunteers

Music Fun for All . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Edna R. Schweitzer 302

Games can be a rollicking part of music activity

Exploring a Need . . . . . . . Arnold D. Cortazzo and Allen R. Menefee 304
A survey of recreation in institutions for the retarded

Pilot Camping Project for the Retarded . . . . . . . . . . . Ed Wyant 305

Local and state agencies in North Carolina cooperate on program

ADMINISTRATION

 

Guidelines for Planning a Golf Course . . . . . . . Harry C. Eckhoj} 306
Considerations before taking any dehnite action

Jolts, Volts, Bolts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 309
The why’s and wherefore’s of lightning protection

Notes for the Administrator . . . . . . . ., . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 311

Funds for roadside development
Student Approach to Recruitment . . David Sterle, Theodore Kavadas 318
Career day programs and leadership institutes

 

DIGEST

Wildlife Whittling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . John F. Clark 320
What can. be accomplished with patience and a sharp blade

DEPARTMENTS

Letters 259

People in the Recreation News 264
Market News 314

Rx for the lll and Handicapped 317

 

Reporter’s Notebook 262
As We Go To Press 265
Resource Guide 315
New Publications 321

 

RECREATION is published monthlg except July and August by the National Recreation Association.
a service organization supported y voluntary contributions. at 8 West 8th Street. New York. New
York 10011. is on file in public libraries and is indexed in the Readers' Guide. Subscription $5.00 a
year. Canadian and foreign subscription rate $5.75. Re-entered as second-class matter April 25.
1950. at the Post Office in New York. New York. under Act of March 3. 1879. Acceptance for mailing
at special rate of postage provided for in Section 1103. Act of October 3. 1917. authorized May 1.
1924. Microfilms of current issues available from University Microfilms. 313 N. First Street. Ann
Arbor, Michigan.

 
  
 

DU CATlONAL The articles herein printed are
R E 5 5 the expression of the writers and
S 5 0C 1 AT l 0" not a statement of policy of the
O F National Recreation Association.

Copyright. 1964 by the

cl.
0‘ '

National Recreation Association. .‘r ".
Incorporated J® .

Printed In the U.S.A.

I

Q
3....

 

 

Editor in Chief
JOSEPH PRENDERGAST

1
Editor
DOROTHY DONALDSON

Assistant Editor
, ELVIRA DELANY

Associate Editor for Program
VIRGINIA MUSSELMAN

Business Manager
FRANK ROWE

Advertising Manager
ESTA GLUCK

 

On the Cover

In California, in 1962, a small boy
-——-aged seven—went out to play and
found previously open land was
now occupied. The resultant cor-
respondence between him and the
President- made frontpage news
from coast to coast. Picture and
letter reproduced from The Race
for Inner Space ( see Pages 260-61
and 316), courtesy Division of In-
formation, U.S. Department of the
Interior.

Next Month

The September issue of RECREATION
is always the “Congress Issue” and
will carry last-minute plans and
news of the big meeting, including
the Program Digest to help you
map out your schedule before you
leave home. The day-in-depth plans
and announcements of speakers
will give you material to feed to
your local press or to your board
and commission about the coming
sessions. Among other articles,
“The Air Force Assesses Its Recre-
ation Centers” by Arthur Todd is
an appraisal of the Air Force rec-
reation program in Europe, and
“Retooling Our Thinking” is from
a thought-provoking address given
by Charles E. Doell at the South-
west District Conference. Among
program materials will be “Party
Planning” and “Return to Para-
dise,” an account of colorful parties
planned by a group of young boys.

Photo Credits

Page 260-61, reproduced from The
Race for Inner Space, published by
the U.S. Department of the In-
terior; 275, Florida News Bureau,
Tallahassee; 276, US Soil Con-
servation Service; 280, City Recre-
ation Department, Jacksonville,
Florida; 299, Paul Pospesil, Palm
Springs, California; 306, Charles
G. Kagey, Colonial W illiamsburg.

RECREATION

i .

 

liLETTERS

EThe Disinherited

'Sirs:

The Playground Issue of RECREATION
f[April] is wonderfully interesting. All
the issues are, but this seemed particu-
larly so because of my interest in play-
.grounds for migrant children. I wish
all American children might have access
to playgrounds. If I had my way, this
project would have high priority in the
anti-poverty drive. For neglected chil-
dren, playgrounds mean so much both
:for their physical and mental health. My
chief concern is the more than hundred
thousand migrant farm children who
.lack the opportunity to play because
they work in the fields and have no play-

grounds.
In the early part of the century, Sarah

Cleghorn, the Quaker poetess, wrote this
short poem about factory children:

The golf links lie so near the mill,

That almost every day

The laboring children can look out

And see the men at play.

I would like to adapt- this poem to
the migrant farm children, in these
words:

The playgrounds lie so near the

farms,

That almost every day
The migrant children raise their eyes

And see our children play.

In almost every agricultural area of
America one may find these children
living in migrant labor camps in gross
neglect. If only people would visit
these places and set up playgrounds for
them! What a world of happiness

would result!
CYRUS KARRAKER, President Pennsyl-
vania Citizen’s Committee on Migrant

Labor, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania.

Recreation in a Crisis

Sirs:
Though the Good Friday earthquake

has made tremendous changes in our

and is being used for emergency office
space for many agencies. The depart-
ment staff has consolidated into one of-
fice but has been kept very busy in the

field conducting a recreation program

for disaster victims.

Due to the destruction of their vil-
lages by the tidal waves following the
earthquake, 268 Aleut residents from
Old Harbor and neighboring villages
were evacuated to Anchorage. Tempor-

’
C3

   
          
    
    
    
   

MIRACLE EARN-A-SLIDE—
Iopk, no steps! To get a
slide, you have to earn
It! Maintenance-free stain-
less steel surface.

ary shelter was provided by the Ameri-
can Red Cross first in the Airport
Heights Elementary School and later at
Camp Denali on Fort Richardson. In
order to provide relief from such re-
stricted surroundings and from such
difficult and trying circumstances, the
Department of Parks and Recreation
initiated a recreation program designed
to include all of the evacuees. The pro-
gram is being conducted each weekday
and has proven to be a delight to the
staff workers as well as to the evacuees.
LOUISE SIMS WULF, Playground Super-
visor, Parks and Recreation Depart-
ment, Anchorage, Alaska.

 

 ALL PATHS LEAD TO...

    

MIRACLE JACK 'n JILL—two

climbers, stairway, ski slide,
“|oolt_out_tower” .. . . all-in-one!
Imaginative design suggests

countless play possibilities.

Many body-building features.
 too. The ideal “centerpiece”
for every playground.

(Model 11-1)

Watch the kids beat a path to your
playgrounds when you install Miracle!
This colorful, imaginative equipment
is designed to attract and keep
children in the playground and out of
mischief. Whether you need one piece
of equipment or a playground full,
mail this coupon today!

MIRACLE EQUIPMENT COMPANY

Box 215-6, Grinnell, Iowa

\
I
l
I
I
I
I
I
I
l
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I

I

 

   
  

I
I |
C I . I
pre-quake plans, we want to contlnue (Model 3-2) A r. l E E i
. . .- .‘  I '-
WIth our recreation outlets. Now .a MIRA-cLESPIDERCUMB I. . é : < 3 I
comprehenswe summer program is -—C|lmbl_l(.|1pt3e “we?” ii I, I E E l
more important to our citizens than bo'lés.s'linag°iliitiv§ "If I‘- l O E w l
climber is an - ‘ I ‘° '—
CVCI‘ before. ex9ellent body_ I ' U E E I
From almost the moment of the b'hnlgelr. Staci I I2 53 I
o . . (u
quake, thlS department has been 1n- ( o e P l i In E i
volved in serving our community, and l E g I l i
this has given us an opportunity to see : 5 3 E :
how important recreation can be, even MIRACLE I O "5 3 :
1n a cr1s1s. Emergency medical supplies, “$531125 l m  E :
cots, and other equ1pment whlch had ianitarg : 3 a. E l I
. op an U L3 cu ‘ I
been stored 1n the Parks and Recrea- seatsofsplinter- I <1 :3 2 g y I
tlon Departments Communlty Center (Model P5") free, mainten- I n: u m m m ‘ I
. . . . ance-free fiber I - x 53 3 G t I
were dlstrlbuted to quake VlCtlmS and glass. I E 3 E. z 3 6 :
emergency workers. The center was in. z‘
JUNE, 1964 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION. 259

Preservation

RECREATION

 

or Abuse? EDITORIAL

 

 

Have We a Land Conscience?

Do we accept, no longer seeing or caring, the progressive uglifica-

tion and waste of our once beautiful land? Which do we prefer—

BEAUTY? Americans are the inheritors of a spacious, virgin
continent. Do we betray our heritage consciously? The status
we give our wilderness areas and undefiled open spaces will
measure the degree of our reverence for the land. The need

for conscious preservation is dramatically evident.

OR WASTELAND? It is an alarming fact that Americans are

becoming the litter champions of the world. The foremost
challenge to the nation’s park system is the impact of public
use, according to the U.S. Department of the Interior. Game

animals need forage, the soul of man needs space and beauty.

JUNE, 1964 261

A REPORTER’S NOTEBOOK

 

Save Beach Sand

A GEOLOGIST at the University of
California, Santa Barbara, is
making a serious plea for the preserva-
tion of beach sand along the California
coast. Dr. Robert Norris points out that
beaches are of such great economic,
recreation and esthetic importance that
their preservation should be taken into
account, particularly whenever stream
developments are considered.

Most of the sand on the beach is de-
livered by streams, Dr. Norris explains,
and since beaches are in equilibrium
with their environment, they require
periodic nourishment in order to bal-
ance the natural losses of sand they
experience. Construction of dams, flood-
control channels, settling basins, and
the like tend to intercept sand and pre-
vent its reaching the beaches.

Thus far, the geologist charges, there
has been no ofbcial recognition of the
need for maintaining streams as agen-
cies for the supply of beach sand. Since
it is obviously unrealistic to eliminate
all dams and stream-development struc-
tures, all serious artificial obstacles to
the maintenance of beach sand supplies,
Dr. Norris suggests that the next best
thing would be to have regular con-
sideration of beach sand supply in all
new stream development programs. Un-
less'we study all aspects of this problem,
he warns, we may bequeath our children
and grandchildren severely eroded
beaches and a tremendously expensive
reconstruction program.

Big Sisters
FORTY Y-Tecns from Travis High

School in Austin, Texas, have
ad0pted the Pan-American Recreation
Center as their service project and have
organized a very successful Saturday
morning activity program for children,
ranging the gamut of “big sister” as-
sistance storytelling, dancing, games,
sclr'rzlinn of library books, help with
skating. gift-making, little-girl secrets
of llI'P-ss and hair styling. You name it,
they do it! More than two hundred

262

children have showed up for the pro-
gram instead of the fifty to sixty anti-
cipated by Pan-Am’s staff. The keen
teens are “big sisters” to an average
of five little boys and girls for each

Y—Teen.
Skillful Skillets

SOMETIMES you need skills to put on
a recreation program, sometimes
you may need Skillets. The annual re-

.- Awnma

l

' COIN-OPERATED

LocKEns
ARE OUR

SPECIALTY

m our:
SIDELINE

perform as specified.

COIN - LOK*

SYSTEMS,

port of the Torrance, California, Recre-
ation Department proves that the well-
rounded program should give partici-
pants what they want whether it be tem- I
pera or tempura. I

In Torrance, the Japanese flower ar-
ranging classes became very interested ;
in Japanese cooking. They asked if ‘
Sachiko Sakomizu could teach a class.
Reports the annual, “We didn’t really
have any reason why we couldn’t offer

   
 
 
 
   
 
  
   
 
 
  
  
  

And Every
COIN-LOK
Locker

_ Gives You

34 Years of Engineering Know-How!

Our business —and our only business—for 34 years has been coin-
operated lockers. During that time we—and we alone—have pio-
neered the design and perfection of virtually every practical
improvement available in coin locks and lockers today.

For example, you’ll never find a Coin-Lok lock in the locker door.
Sure, we used to put them there, but long ago we recognized the
extra strength and protection the double-thick steel channel wall
provides. 80 that's where our locks are today. Result—security,
plus performance-proved trouble-free operation.

Of course our best references are Coin-Lok owners—thousands of
recreation areas, schools and public buildings in the U. S. and
Canada. Coin-Lok designs and engineers its lockers—and controls
the quality of those lockers. Coin-Lok manufactures its famous
Selectomatic locks—and guarantees every lock and locker to

*T.M.—American Locker Company. Inc.

IIIi

INC.

 

 

A subsidiary of

AMERICAN LOCKER CO., INC.

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

 

RECREATION

Japanese cooking except that the de-
partment has no cooking facilities. But,
then, Japanese cooking can be done in
an electric skillet. So we thought that if
everyone would bring their electric
skillet to class we could run the lessons.
Under the press of publicity deadlines
and in an unguarded moment we said,
“Why not?” and publicized the class
to meet at the Victor E. Benstead
Plunge. Then we sat down to work out
the details. We found that there were a
few other considerations—we needed a
stove to cook the rice, we needed pots
and pans and utensils. Also, did we have

  
  

 

 

  
   

\/

the electrical ‘juice’ at the plunge to
run all those Skillets? And so the prob-
lems began to pile up.

“We called the Edison Company to
see if somehow we could borrow a stove.
Edison officials said, ‘Why don’t you
just bring the whole group to our Liv-
ing Center where you would have every-
thing you need?’ And so we were saved
and with a sign of relief, we notified
all those on the long, long list that the
classes (plural by now) would meet at
the Edison Company. So Miss Sakornizu
taught her classes at the Edison Com-
pany, and we had the excellent help of

against the
extravagant

claims of
others

And this is only the start!

WHAT ABOUT THE LOOK? Only on Coin-Lok do you getothe patented,
exclusive Selectomatic—owner-adjustable for desired corns—most re-
liable lock in the field. On-the-iob proved with thousands of locks In use

and millions of user checkings annually.

WHERE IS THE LOOK? Not'in the vulnerable door location! Coin-bok
recesses its Selectomatic Locks in the adjacent channel wall, InSIde

I

 

double-thick steel for full security. No pilferage problems with Coin-Lok!

 THUMP THE DOOR. No tinny clank—with Coin-Lok a good solid “whurnp"!
' That Coin-Lok door is die-formed heavy steel with reinforced corners and

pry-proof 1" flanges all-around.

Plus, if wanted, a reinforced rib section.

EXAMlNE THE HINGES. Coin-Lok gives you by far the most rugged hinges

double-thick steel, full-looped for extra strength around a king-size

5/32” pin.

SHAKE THE FRAME. With Coin-Lok you can’t! Rigid cross-frame con—
struction assures maximum strength, resists stress or distortion in every
direction. A Coin-Lok design exclusive.

V on the market. Not a cheap common leaf hinge, Coin-Lok hinges are

Check the facts— ask any Coin-Lok owner!

*T.M. —- American Locker Company, Inc.

   
 

COIN-lOK SYSTEMS, INC.

Dept. 56, 211 Congress St.
Boston 10, Mass.

Please send, without obligation, com-
plete information and specifications of
new Coin-Lok* Locks and Lockers.

JUNE, 1964':

  

IIIi

Oldest and Largest Coin Lock Manufacturer

 
       
    

Name

 

    

Address

When writing to our-advertisers please; mention RECREATION.

 

the home economists, and everyone en-
joyed themselves very much. And the
department staff didn’t have to carry all
those pots and pans and everything in
and out of the plunge. Result: One hun-
dred cooks, four classes offered, sixteen
class meetings, 368 total attendance.”
Torrance also reports that, “Boys as
well as girls learned to cook in the Space
Age Junior Cooks classes which the de-
partment cosponsored with theiSouth-
ern California Edison Compafiy.'*This
cooperative effort was suggested by the
Edison Company after the success of
the Japanese cooking. A Junior Cook’s
Fair came at the end of the three-lesson
series. We who tasted know that they
really learned to cook. The wonderful
part of the whole program was that
children learned that they didn’t need
a box to bake a cake. Result: 105 space—

age cooks; 18 class meetings; 460 total
attendance (includes fair) .”

Senior Leadership Workshop
A VOLUNTEER leadership workshop

for Senior Citizens, sponsored by
the Los Angeles Department of Recrea-
tion and Parks, consisted of a series of
six meetings on subjects including club
organization,.parliamentary procedure,
program and “party planning; com-
munity resources, community singing,

and dance mixers; organization of bus
trips, and crafts and decoration ideas.

Notes on the Cuff

0 Some people see pink elephants that
aren’t really there, but visitors to Grif-
fith Park Zoo in Los Angeles can see
pink rattlesnakes that really ARE. They
came to the zoo ‘from a collector who
gathered them in their natural habitat
in New Mexico.

0 For a small fee covering cost, the
Department of Parks and Recreation in
Wooster, Ohio, children’s
birthday parties in a facility especially
designed for this purpose. Service in-
cludes all equipment and food neces-
sary for a successful party, including"

arranges

cake, ice cream, punch, lollipops on a
tree, and so on.

0 Recreation Director Gerry Cox of
Derry, New Hampshire, is currently'
driving a very interesting vehicle—a,

1929 Model A Ford.

263

Anybody can play
with the
wonderful games
for all age groups
from

WORLD WIDE GAMES
Delaware, Ohio

And I know it’s true . . .

my parents.

Warren and Mary Lea Bailey.
manufacture them!

Write for free catalog

 

GET THE GUYS
TO VOCALIZE

WITH
NATIONAL'S DANDY

“SING-ALONG SONG SLIDES"!!

Meetings that begin or end with sing-along sessions
are successful meetings! Watch your gang warm up
fast with a lusty group sing! Send for National's
free catalog of alt-time hit songs. available in slide
form for as low as 5°C a tune!

Need a projector? Let us know . . . we'll save you
real dough! Write today to:

NATIONAL STUDIOS. mc.
42 West 48th Street, N. Y. 36. N. Y.

 

AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA:

 

4 . . . .

p d1v1510n of ranger serv1ces where he
i   had been chief since 1959. His new
‘ ' V ,‘gi,'u;'gs£3:::’n';§ assignment calls for carrying out a
: in";Txniiitsindniioptiliiimiiiaieizjm" : series of. studies and duties related to
1 ' I 8|MII927/P01tzNow York City the serVIce’s tra1n1ng programs. Mr.
4 Q mm”: "mm' "' Y“ : Cook entered the Park Service in 1924
4 PLUME TRADING co. k S . N . 1
1 A ‘ Deptzw'aox 585'Momoe'N'Y. as a par ranger at equ01a atlona
: zggs'ilif'EE, the finest catalog and parkscalifomia.
4 Name—v._.____—_
‘ Addren- : . . .
3 ‘ City sure : Mrs. Vanderbilt Webb recently re-
mymmmwyyv ceived the Trail Blazer Award of the
264 When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

PEOPLE
IN THE NEWS

The National Rec-
reation Committee
of the National
Association for
Retarded Children
has named Dr.
Morton Thomp-
son, director of
the National Recreation Association’s
Consulting Service on Recreation for
the Ill and Handicapped, as consultant
to the NARC Recreation Committee.
Dr. Thompson is now working closely
with the committee and Arnold Cortaz-
zo, NARC consultant on vocational re-
habilitation and recreation, on several
projects. One is the development of a
series of manuals on recreation for the
retarded, including Modified Sports
and Games, Physical Fitness, and Resi-
dent Camping. Other cooperative proj-
ects are a nationwide survey of com-
munity recreation department programs
for the retarded and the development
of day-camp standards for the retarded.
The latter project will be developed with
two other agencies, the Association for
the Help of Retarded Children and the
American Camping Association.

Dr. Thompson has also been appoint-
ed representative of the National Rec-
reation Association on the Arthritis
Advisory Committee of the Interna-

tional Society for the Rehabilitation of
the Disabled.

  

Lawrence F. Cook, whose career in
the National Park Service spans forty
years, has been named to the newly
created post of field assistant to the
director in the service’s Washington
office. Mr. Cook moves up from the

New York Chapter of the National
Home Fashions League. In the course of

her “trail blazing,” Mrs. Webb founded

the American Craftsmen’s Council in
1943 to educate the general public in a
greater appreciation of American Crafts
and to encourage and educate crafts-
men. She also founded the Museum of
Contemporary Crafts in New York City,
created a magazine, a school for crafts-
men, and a shop, “America House,” '
also in New York City.

Steve Sinko, former Duquesne Uni-
versity football great, professional star,
college coach and athletic director, has
joined the Athletic Institute as its East-
ern field representative. He comes to

the institute from Boston University
where he had been head football coach.

Allen R. Menefee, co-author of the
study of recreation for institutionalized
mental retardates reported on Page 304,
has just been named assistant chief of
the Mental Retardation Branch, Divi-
sion of Chronic Diseases, of the Public
Health Service, U. S. Department of
Health, Education, and Welfare.

Gerald A. Harrison, assistant profes-
sor of recreation at Springfield College,
has been named to the board of direc-
tors of the American Camping Associa-
tion. Professor Harrison has been ac-
tive in the camping field for many years.
At Springfield College, he is respon-
sible for teaching camping and outdoor
education courses. Professor Harrison
is also a member of the Core Committee
of the Family Camping Federation
which was established in 1962 under
ACA auspices to serve leaders related
to the family camping movement.

 

IN MEMORIAM

 

0 IRENE TEAKELL, former city recrea-
tion director in Albuquerque, New Mex-
ico, died in April at the age of sixty-four.
She was a pioneer in developing public
recreation in Albuquerque and had
made many contributions to the recrea-
tion movement throughout New Mexico.
For the past few years she had been ac-
tive in developing facilities and pro-
grams for senior citizens.

RECREATION

AS WE GO TO PRESS

 

F THE STRUGGLE for New York City’s
Central Park land continues unabated.
A wave of protests greets still another
attempt to encroach upon it, this time
for a public housing project. Mean-
while, the Appellate Division of the
New York State Supreme Court has
ruled unanimously that the city can
build the controversial Huntington
Hartford pavilion and outdoor cafe in
Central Park! In more than three and
a half years of involved litigation, sev-
eral civic organizations have contended
that the project is an illegal use of park
land.

0 A bit further up the Hudson River
from New York City, dispute fiares over
a pr0posal to, build a hydroelectric
power plant at Cornwall on the river.
A series of four articles entitled “Rhine
in Ruin?” by William G. Wing in the
New York Herald Tribune recounts the
many battles down the years to pre-
serve the beauty of the riverfront and
its palisades. Reports Mr. Wing, “. . .
the women of New Jersey . . . fought
the quarrymen and saved the Palisades;
so did George W. Perkins and Mary
Harriman and three generations of
Rockefellers who helped create the
priceless park on the Palisades; so did
the private society of river-lovers, the
Hudson River Conservation Society,
which has labored for a half-century to
preserve the grandeur of the scenery.

“They held the line during the cen-

tury of pressure on the Hudson [River]
Canyon and provided a spell during
which two points have become clear:
that the scenery of the Hudson Canyon
is an invaluable asset to New York and
that the scenery won’t take much tam-
pering.” The Tribune series concludes
with a quotation from Chief Justice
Oliver Wendell Holmes: “A river is

more than an amenity; it is a treasure.”

F CENTENNIAL: Yosemite National
Park celebrates its one hundredth anni-
versary in June. In 1864, by act of Con-
gress, signed into law by Abraham Lin-
coln, the Yosemite Valley and Mariposa
Grove of Big Trees were given to the
state of California for public use and
recreation. Yosemite received national
park status in 1890 through the valiant
efforts of John Muir who has been
called “the father of Yosemite.”

D THE FIRST THREE PRODUCTIONS of the

North Carolina Film Board, the only
state-subsidized film board in the coun-
try, include The Road to Carolina, an

JUNE, 1964

"t

historical film; The Ayes Have I t, on
state legislative procedure; and The Dy-
ing Frontier, on the poverty-stricken
Appalachia area. The films will be
available for national distribution

shortly.

) CALL or THE CARIBBEAN. Post-Con-
gress tours to Nassau by air or ship will
be available to delegates to the 46th
National Recreation Congress in Miami
Beach, October 4-8, at special rates. Air
tours include one-, two- and three-day
trips. The cruise ship is a weekend trip,
Friday to Monday. For details of these
tours or others you might like, write
to the official tour agency: Farr Tours
(attention: James Stuart), 6705 Collins
Avenue, Miami Beach, Florida 33141.
The tour agency also has an office in
the Congress headquarters hotel, The
Deauville, where delegates will be able
to confer on the spot and check over
final plans.

b SPECIAL ATTRACTIONS for delegates’
wives at the 46th National Recreation
Congress in Miami Beach, October 4-8,
will include a luncheon session 
Mrs. Sargent Shriver as speaker. Wife
of the director of the Peace Corps and
sister of the late President, Eunice Ken-
nedy Shriver is active on many fron-
tiers, particularly in recreation and
training for the mentally retarded.

THINGS YOU SHOULD KNOW

} A TURBULENT AGE. “Teenagers are
exposed to a series of turbulances and
contradictory urgencies . . .” declares
Dr. Erich Lindemann, professor of psy-
chiatry at Harvard Medical School,
“and they must also be exposed to our
basic values of life. . . .They need to
have allegiance to common family goals,
but should not be in bondage to out-
dated values. . . .” He was speaking to
the 18th Annual Institute of the Child
Study Association of America in New
Ytirk City on the “Crisis in Family
Li e.”

An excellent talk was also delivered
by Dr. Mary Ellen Goodman, lecturer
on anthropology and sociology at Rice
University, on the social and cultural
pressures on children. She says that
these pressures are of two types, malign
and benign, and that the goal of con-
structive action, then, is to reduce the
former and increase the latter. “But of
the worthy, lasting values,” she says,
“the constructive influences at work are

ideals, which can be helped to realiza-
tion by family, school, religion institu-
tion, community agency and organiza-
tion.” She pointed out that in a society
such as ours, where children are out of
the home so much of the time, it is im-
portant for organizations and institu-
tions to exert benign pressures, and
that shortages of benign pressures can
be destructive too. “We subject our
children unfairly and improperly to
materialism and hedonism,” she says,
“and it is heartening that most of our
children do survive our ineptitudes and
failures, and even triumph over them.
There is reason to look ahead with op-
timism, because all across the country
thoughtful people are constantly reex-
amining our ways and working to make
them better. . . .”

} NEW NATIONAL SEASHORE. The De-
partment of the Interior recently re-
leased a study which recommends the
establishment of a new Cape Lookout
National Seashore on the lower Outer
Banks of North Carolina. LOcated in
Carteret County, the proposed national
seashore would encompass some 15,800
acres and about fifty-eight miles of
ocean shore on the chain of barrier
reefs extending south and west of Cape
Hatteras National Seashore. Eighty
percent of the area is state-owned and

would be donated to the federal govern-
ment.

} T0 HONOR FDR. The Department of
the Interior has endorsed preposed fed-
eral legislation designed to implement
a recent agreement between the United
States and Canada to establish a twenty-
acre Roosevelt Campobello Interna-

tional Park in the Province of New
Brunswick.

) SCUBA HEALTH HAZARDS. Senator
Abraham Ribicoff of Connecticut has
introduced a bill (5.2550) to provide
technical assistance and research relat-
ing to the control of health hazards and
the prevention of accidental deaths and
injuries associated with underwater
diving to the Senate Committee on La-
bor and Public Welfare. T he Congres-
sional Record, February 26 states: “. . .
Many Americans who thrive on the ex-
citement of underwater exploration un-
knowingly face grave danger. The air
a scuba diver breathes, in many in-
stances, is contaminated. The tank of
life strapped to his back may be, in-
stead, a device of death. . . . An esti-
mated one million persons engage in

265

scuba diving in this country . . . they
must be protected. Usually contamina-
tion occurs when the diver’s air tanks
are filled. . . . The bill authorizes the
Surgeon General to promote acceptance
of air purity standards. These stand-
ards should cover not only the content
of air placed in scuba diving tanks but
also the conditions under which it is

compressed. . . .

“Scuba diving has become a popular
sport and . . . also has been adapted for
other important use. Police scuba div-
ers search for drowning victims and
submerged stolen cars. Construction
divers work on pier and tunnel projects.
Marine biologists and underwater ex-
plorers probe the mysteries of the deep
while wearing scuba diving gear. Cali-
fornia even has game wardens who de-

tect illegal fishing through underwater
diving. . . .”

F NATIVE PRODUCT. Richard (Wink)

Tapply, New Hampshire representative
of the National Recreation Association,

is spending half of his time on a new
project to study how craft leaders can
develop meaningful arts aéld crafts pro-

ams b using' free an inexpensive
graterialsyavailable in New Hampshire,
and to disseminate to craft leaders the
results of this study.

The work plan for the project has
been divided into two general areas of
research and education. Research will
involve compiling a list of waste mate-
rials available from New Hampshire
manufacturing concerns; initiating a
plan of acquisition of these materials;
constructing sample, craft items which
can be made from these materials; and
composing detailed instructions for use
of these materials. A similar area of
work with natural materials is planned.
A study of tools, shops, methods, and
improvising will be made. Education
responsibilities will include the dis-
semination of the knowledge gained to
craft leaders through newsletters, work-
shops, “how-to-do-it” bulletins, and
demonstrations.

COMING EVENTS

National Safe Boating Week, June 28-
July 4. Sponsor: National Safe Boatin
Week Committee, US. Coast Guard Head-

quarters, 1300 E Street N.W., Washington
25, D.C.

Craftsman Fair of the Southern High-
lands, July 13-17, Civic Auditorium, Ashe-
ville, North Carolina.

Western Resources Conference 1964,
July 14-17, University of Colorado, Boul-
der. For full details, write to Bureau of
Continuation Education, 352 Chemistry

Building, University of Colorado, Boulder,
Colorado 80304.

Pinewoods Camp, Cape Cod, Mas-
sachusetts: Chamber Music Week, Au-
gust 29; Dance Weeks, August 9-16 and
16-23; Folk Music Week, August 23-30.
For details, write to Country Dance So-
ciety, 55 Christo her Street, New York 14,
until July 25 (alier July 25, write to Pine-
wood: Camp, Buzzards Bay, RFD 2, Mas-
sachusetts).

Fourth Annual Workshop Seminar,
Rudolf Steiner Exhibitions, August 9-30,
Stockbridge School, Interlaken, Massa-
chusetts. For details, write to Rudolf

Steiner Exhibitions, 25 Pershing Road,
Englewood, New Jersey.

20th Anniversary. Meeting, Children’s
Theatre Conference and Beginner’s
Workshop, August 18-22, University of
Kansas University Theatre. For informa-
tion, write to H. K. Hancock, University

Extension Building, Lawrence, Kansas
66044.

Youth Month, September 1-30. Sponsor:
Senior League, Inc., and American Friends

of Youth, Inc. Write to Evan P. Lovell,
National Director, Taft Building, Holly-
wood at Vine, Hollywood, California.

National Science Youth Month, Octo-
ber 1-31. Sponsor: Science Service, 1719
N Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20036.

CAMPING

Family Camping School, weeklong ses-
sions starting June 22, 29; July 6, 13, 20,
27; August 3, 10, 17, 24. Sponsored by
Worcester Science Museums, under the
direction of Maine School of Camping.
Write to Victor J. Moreno, Director, Wor-
cester Science Muscums, 41 Elm Street,
Worceaer 9, Massachusetts.

Family Camping and Outdoor Recre-
ation Workshop, July 20-25. Sponsored
by Montana State University, Confeder-
ated Sallish and Kootenai Tribes. Write
to Walter C. Schwank, Director, Health,
Physical Education and Athletics, Mon-
tana State University, Missoula.

Beginning Camper-aft Course, July 25-
August 2; Basic Camper-aft, August 1-
15. Sponsored b Olympic College. Write
to George W. artin, Registrar, Olympic

 

College, 16th and Chester Avenue, Bremer
ton, Washington. .

Family Camping Workshop, August 9-
15. Sponsored by State University of Iowa.
Write to Dr. E. A. Scholer, Room 121,

Field House, State University of Iowa,
Iowa City.

Summer Graduate Workshop in Out-
door Education, August 17—28. Spon-
sored by Michigan State University. Write
to Dr. Julian Smith, Director, Outdoor
Education Project, College of Education,
Michigan State University, East Lansing.

New Hampshire Family Camporee,
September 11-13. Write to Richard A.
Tapply, New Hampshire Field Represent-
ative, National Recreation Association,
42 Lake Street, Bristol, New Hampshire.

F PETS AND PEOPLE. A comprehensive
kit of free materials to help you put on
a pet fair includes a sixteen-page guide,
banners, posters, ribbons, certificates,
stencils, leaflets, posters, exhibitor tags,
and what have you not. For your kit,
write to Pets and People, Room 1111,
1841 Broadway, New York 10023.

) CAN YOU IMlicINE what a job it would
be to pick up 18,566,000 cans, 37,132
boxes of tissue thrown from a car win-
dow (each box once contained five
hundred tissues), and 18,000,000 pop
bottles and hamburger wrappers. This
is the amount of litter that would have
to be picked up in just the state of Ne-
vada, if each tourist who came to the
state threw away one can, one facial
tissue, and one pop bottle and hambur-
ger wrapper. Last year, the Nevada
State Highway Department spent $482,-
951 in gathering litter along the high-
way. These statistics, representing a
minute fraction of the staggering litter
toll, were cited by Clair Christiansen,
resource development spewialist of the
University of Nevada, at a Pacific
Northwest Workshop on Litter-Preven-
tion and Beautification held in Seattle,
Washington, in April.

) PROMOTE VACATION READING. A love
of reading is something that must grow
through a person’s own experience with
books. Adults, however, can set the
stage. The Children’s Book Council
has prepared vacation reading mate-
rials to help you promote a summer
program. These include posters, slit-
cards, bookmarks, pencils, decorated
paper (for announcements, bulletins,
certificates, et cetera) . For complete
list of available aids, write to the Coun-

cil at 175 Fifth Avenue, New York
10010.

b COMPLETE PHYSICAL-FITNESS PLANS
for boys and girls aged twelve to eight-
een have been prepared by the Presi-
dent’s Council on Physical Fitness.
They include basic workouts plus other
pertinent information. The two man-
uals, Vim (for the girls) and Vigor (for
the boys) are available for 3.25 each
from the Government Printing Office,

Washington, D. C. 20402.

} THE BEST OF PLANS . . . Virginia
Musselman, editor of the annual Play-
ground Summer Notebook, scheduled
for publication on April 1, asks us to
tell all the Notebook-’5 faithful sub-
scribers that the delay just couldn’t be
helped! The manuscript was written
by January 1 (plenty of time) but the
artist was laid low by a flu germ——and

the Notebook wouldn’t be the same
without its sketches, now would it?

RECREATION

PARKS AND RECREATION

SHOWCASE at the
WORLD’S FAIR

From one fellow professional to another . . .

 

JUNE, 1964

In this article, written expressly for
RECREATION Magazine, a veteran park
executive discusses the recreation areas,
parks, and landscaping at the New York
World’s Fair and tells his fellow profes-
sionals how they can make a visit to
the fair a profitable experience, indeed.

Stuart Constable

PARK AND RECRE-
ATION leaders
will find the New
York World’s Fair

1964-1965
than a showcase of

exhibitors’ wares
and skills, projec-
tions into the future, and entertainment
attractions to amuse everyone from
child to grandparent. The fair is also
a playground with assembly areas and
parks possessing a wide variety of

MR. CONSTABLE, vice-president in
charge of Operations for the World’s
Fair, is one of the nation’s foremost
landscape architects and was associated
with the New York City Department of
Parks for twenty-five years. In 1936,
he was appointed chief designer by
Parks Commissioner Robert Moses and
held that post until 1955. He was re-
Sponsible for the designing of all the
parks built by the city during that twen-
ty-year period. In 1955, Mr. Constable
was named executive officer of the de-
partment by Mr. Moses, serving for five
years. Mr. Constable also served as act-
ing commissioner of the New York City
Planning Commission between 1950-

1960 and the New York City Art Com-
mission between 1949-1955.

more

 

 

greenery, Hora] arrangements, thirty-
five hundred park benches, and an elab-
orate network of roads and paths.

The World’s Fair has five specific
recreation areas where most of its fif-
teen hundred special events will be held.
Included in these special events are mu-
sical concerts, nationality and state
days, Olympic Games tryouts, and bar-
bershop quartet appearances. The Sing-
er Bowl, having the largest seating capa-
city, accommodates seventeen thousand
and is an open-air stadium. In addition
to being the scene of the fair’s opening
day ceremonies and a number of Olym-
pic trials, it will have at least one ad-
mission-free event, either cultural or
sports, every day throughout the fair.

Each of the four other assembly areas
will have a seating capacity of approxi-
mately twelve thousand, making a total
seating capacity of more than twenty-
nine thousand for all five recreation
grounds. The four attractively land-
scaped commons provide approximate-
ly eight thousand to ten thousandsquare
feet of paved area, surrounded by grass
aprons where three thousand additional
standing spectators can be accommo-
dated. Each common will be equipped
with a band shell complete with a pub-
lic-address system and lights.

The geodesic-domed fair pavilion will
seat twenty-one hundred and provide a
convex stage with a 40-by-40-foot play-
ing area for special gatherings.

PLANTING throughout the '646-acre
fair grounds also serves to give the
exposition the appearance of being one

"The Rocket Thrower" by Manhattan sculptor Donald Delue greets visitors entering fair's main mall.

267

The Fair Corporation,
alone, planted 4,000 major trees (oaks,
maples, plane trees, et cetera), 1,300
minor trees (crabapple, hawthorn,
aInelanchier, et cetera), 315,000 bed-
ding plants, 65,000 groundcover plants,
25,000 shrubs, 120,000 tulips, and seed-
ed over 10,000 pounds of grass. These
figures do not include the considerable
amount of planting done by exhibitors.
Each lease signed by an exhibitor con-
tained a clause specifying that a mini-
mum of forty percent of the site be re-
served for landscaping. Since it was
left to the individual exhibitors to land-
scape their sites, visitors are assured a
wide variety of planting effects sur-
rounding the 150 pavilions.

For example, ninety-five percent of
the thirty-five square feet of the Julimar
Farm exhibit area will be landscaped in

a series of fairyland gardens, designed

by Edward D. Stone, Jr. of Fort Lauder-
dalc, Florida. The Danish Pavilion will
include a miniature Tivoli Gardens, fea-
turing play sculpture designed by top
Danish artists to provide a playground
delight for children. The Pan Ameri-
‘an Highway Gardens, an exhibit to
wlebrate the 1963 completion of this
.wacl. v. ill feature trees, shrubbery and
Tlowvr- from the highway route that
'1le through beautiful tropical areas

giant park.

lo?

I

from the border of Mexico to Panama.

To remain as a permanent part of
Flushing Meadow Park at the close of
the fair, the Garden of Meditation will
have an oval walk surrounding a lawn

area and an informal pool. Benches will
be placed on one side of the oval which
will be connected by paths to the border
walks of the fair. The entire area will
be screened with pine, birch, pin oaks,
and other major trees in mass, in
groups, and as single specimens with
underplantings of laurel, azaleas and
other shade-tolerant material.

For the amusement of children and
adults alike, Chunky Corporation has
planned a playground consisting of thir-
teen seemingly unrelated pieces of
sculpture containing eye-level aper-
tures. When viewed through these open-
ings two or more of the abstract forms
line up to become whole units repre-
senting a man standing on his head, a
giraffe, or an elephant.

As a final example, the Long Island
Railroad site Will feature an “escape
garden” where visitors can breathe in
the aroma of Long Island flowers while
sitting on rustic benches. Serving as
caretakers of the garden are members
of the Long Island Nurserymen’s Asso-
ciation. Incidentally, it is the beast of
this exhibit that nowhere in the garden

can there be found even a sprig of that
most typical of LIRR Hora, a thing

called “crabgrass.”

N0 PARK is quite complete without at
least one pool or fountain, but the
World’s Fair will have ten pools, five of
which Will remain after the fair closes
in October 1965. The Pool of Industry
is 335 feet in diameter and is surround-
ed by a 44-foot wide promenade. The
Fountain of the Planets, located in this
pool, will be the site of a nightly spec-
tacular show of fireworks, special light-
ing effects, and music. The other pools
vary in size and shape, with a Fountain
of the Continents at the base of the Uni-
sphere (R), featuring a three hundred-
foot diameter pool and two rows of ver-
tical jets surrounding the pedestal of
the Fair’s symbol.

For boat enthusiasts the World’s Fair
marina, located on Flushing Bay, will
provide mooring for eight hundred
boats and a projected plan for 1,210
more. The Flushing Charter Corpora-
tion will also rent boats from this area.
(See “DrOp Anchor at the Fair,” REC-
REATION, February 1964.)

Opposite the fair grounds near the
marina is the sixty thousand-seat Shea
Stadium, which opened in April. When
not in use by the New York Mets base-

RECREATION

 

For left. 'Moin odministration build-
ing of World's Foir Morina on Flush-
ing Boy houses 0 three hundred-
seot restouront. Morina consists of
a system of inter-connecting Fiber-
glas cousewoys ond slips. The mo-
rino will remoin as o permonent fa-
cility ofter close of fair, will even-
tually berth two thousond boots.

left. Sheo Stodium, new home of
the New York Mets boseball team,
opened in April. Adiacent to the
fair, it seots fifty-five thousond for
boseball and sixty thousand for
footboll. When not in use by the
boll teams, the stodium will be used
by Foir Corporotion for speciol
events ond moior sports attroctions.

Right. The Gorden of Meditation
will also remoin as o permanent
port of Flushing Meodow Pork at
the close of the fair. The entire oreo
is screened with pine, birch, pin
ooks, ond other moior trees in moss,
in groups, ond os single specimens
with underplontings of lourel, ozo-
leas, and shode-toleront moteriol.

ball team, the Fair Corporation will use
the stadium for special‘events.

For fair visitors who wish to include
the joys of ocean surf and sandy beach-
es, Jones Beach State Park can be
reached by an easy, all-parkway drive.
Once the visitor leaves the mammoth
parking area, he never sees another car.
The beach extends for miles providing

the privacy of a deserted island or the
fun of genial crowds.

THE FAIR will have a life of two years,

but already the imaginative presi-
dent of the New York World’s Fair Cor-
poration, Robert Moses, famous to park
enthusiasts over the years, is looking
ahead to rebuild Flushing Meadow—
site of the fair—into one of the finest
parks in the world. He recently com-
mented, “The aftermath of a world’s
fair is at least as significant as the fair
itself. Visitors to such an exposition
carry away indelible impressions, lively
lessons, satisfactions and
pleasant memories, but what finally re-
mains on the ground when the pageant
has faded, the brickbats have been re-
moved by the wrecker and scavenger,
and the park planners have gone to
work is of more concern to the next

generation than any Spectacle, however
gorgeous.”

enduring

Mr. Moses envisions a whole network
of connecting parks in the Borough of

JUNE, 1964

Queens—"a “ribbon corridor” park sys-
tem, with Flushing Meadow but one
link in the chain. These parks would
extend to the New York City limits at
Nassau County, an area encompassing
2,816 acres, or more than four times
greater than Flushing Meadow itself.

I iIACH PARK in the system would have
its own baseball diamonds, tennis
courts, picnic grounds, and everything

 

WHEN THE FAIR IS OVER

WORLD’S FAIR President Robert
Moses, long-time New York
City Park Commissioner, hopes the
fair site will be added to the city’s
park system when the fair finally
shuts down in 1965. RECREATION
readers may recall Mr. Moses’
fighting words in the May 1956
issue: “American municipalities,
including counties, towns, cities,
and villages have always had inade-
quate parks and playgrounds. To-
day, when they are bursting their
seams, we wake up to discover the
appalling bill which must be paid
for past smugness, stupidity, ne-
glect, selfishness. . . . As a long-
time park man, all I ask is steadier
and more reliable support from
those who are vocal enough about
principles but short on help where
it is needed.”

 

else which is associated with a great
family-type park, Where city dwellers
can escape into the Open only a few
minutes from home.

In submitting a preliminary plan for
post-fair park construction, Mr. Moses
said: “We urge that this plan be given
sympathetic consideration by ofiicials,
the press and the public. I express the
hope that the fair may be sufficiently
successful (financially) to make the
program in large part realizable in the
period immediately following its close
. . . the fair will, to the extent that it has
the means, use its expert force to finish
the Flushing Meadow and corridor pro-
gram without cost to the city. In this
way there will be no competition with
the rest of the city’s park program . . .”

A few days after submitting his plan,
Mr. Moses issued an addendum saying
he would build a zoo in Queens Botani-
cal Gardens to match any in the city and
nation for size, stock, and beauty as
part of the park system. The Queens
Botanical Gardens, located in Kissena
corridor, east of grounds, includes an
elliptical lawn, Hora] displays, formal
rows of trees, groves, and a large pool.

The fair and future park plans have
always been considered together. Its
roads and walkways,pools,and lagoons,
trees and floral displays and permanent

buildings will be part of a legacy to the
city of New York.

269

POLICY FOR COUNTY
PARKS AND RECREATION

The special role of the county in an age of expanding leisure

The National Association of Counties has adopted a
“National Policy for County Parks and Recreation.” A
slightly condensed statement of this policy follows:

torically been leisure—the progressive diminish-

ment of the effort required to provide the necessities
of human physical and economic survival. In the 20th
century, we are approaching the attainment of this goal.
It is the purpose, therefore, of the National Policy for
County Parks and Recreation to suggest some guidelines
by which county governments in the United States may con-
tribute toward effective utilization of leisure by participat-
ing in the provision of a balanced program of public parks
and recreation. Such a balanced program will involve every
level of government, as well as the private sector, and will
serve every segment of society.

The special role of the county is to acquire, develop, and
maintain parks and to administer public recreation pro-
grams that will serve the needs of communities broader
than the local neighborhood or municipality, but less than
statewide or national in scope. In addition, the county
should plan and coordinate local neighborhood and com-
munity facilities with the cooperation of the cities, town-
ships, and other intra-county units, and should itself cooper-
ate in state and federal planning and coordinative activities.
Where there is no existing unit of local government except
the county to provide needed local neighborhood or munici-
pal facilities and programs, the county should provide such
facilities and programs, utilizing county service districts,
local assessments, and other methods by which those bene-
fited will pay the cost.

3' MAJOR GOAL of civilized societies everywhere has his-

Internal Organization. Counties have an obligation to
create organizational structures for meeting their park and
recreation responsibilities. Internally, such organizational
structures should fix responsibility for the county park and
recreation program clearly with the elected county govern-
ing body.

Counties are urged to employ parks and recreation direc-
tors and staff qualified by education and eXperience to ad-
minister and assist in planning, implementing and manag-
ing the park and recreation program. In addition, they
should fully utilize the wide range of technical services that
are available through various state and federal departments
and the several national park, recreation and conservation
organizations.

County park and recreation responsibilities involve sev-
eral facets of county government. Other county depart-
ments should be kept fully informed and requested to co-

270

operate in the deveIOpment of these programs, and share
mutual responsibilities and interests.

External Organization. Park and recreation facilities
and programs serving a community larger than an indi-
vidual county, but of less than a statewide sc0pe, should be
administered jointly through cooperative arrangements be-
tween two or more counties. In the event that creation of
a new unit of government is necessary to attain an effective
and economically feasible solution of regional park and
recreation problems, the final responsibility for its adminis-

tration should be vested in the elected county governing
bodies involved.

Financing County Programs. County park and recrea-
tion programs should be financed principally through gen-
eral taxation. This may be supplemented by such sources
as general obligation and revenue bonding, donations of
money, land and services from private individuals and
groups, and user fees.

County government strongly supports the concept that
users of certain kinds of public park and recreation facilities
and programs should pay for such use. Revenue from this
source should be applied toward the acquisition, develop-
ment, maintenance, and administration of parks and recrea-
tion programs. Fees should be regulated so as to insure
that persons with modest incomes will not be denied the
privilege and benefits of public park and recreation pro-
grams of facilities.

Planning Responsibility. Parks and recreation should
be an integral element of all county land use planning and
zoning. Such planning and zoning should embrace not only
areas to be acquired for the county park or recreation sys-
tem, but maximum use should also be made of zoning and
other regulatory powers to preserve open space, protect
scenic values, and otherwise enhance recreational oppor-
tunities in private deveIOpments.

The County and Other Local Governments. Counties
should encourage, through planning, consultation and other
services, the providing of adequate local neighborhood and
community facilities and programs by municipalities, town-
ships, and other intra-county units of government. Munici-
pal governments should be encouraged to step up their ef-
forts to secure Open space and recreation areas, particularlv
in and around urban centers.

Municipal, township, and other intra-county units should
coordinate their programs with existing county plans. Their
requests for technical and financial assistance should be
made first to their county governments. If the county is

RECREATION

unable to provide such assistance, it should forward the
request to the apprOpriate state agency and should support
the local unit in its request. All such requests should be
restricted to those instances in which the county lacks the
resources to provide the requested services on its own behalf.

Counties should also, where appropriate, enter into inter-
governmental contracts or agreements with municipalities,
townships and other intra-county units for the joint use of
personnel and for joint administration of park and recrea-
tion facilities and programs.

The County and State Governments. Every state should
acquire, develop, maintain and administer park and recrea-
tion facilities and programs which provide values for the
benefit of the entire state. In addition, every state should
authorize appropriate enabling legislation so that counties
and other local governments will have full authority to pro-
vide a balanced program of park and recreation services and
to finance it adequately. The states should also provide
technical assistance to local governments in their park and
recreation endeavors and, where possible, financial incen-
tives to assist them in accelerating their park and recrea-
tion programs.

The states should consult formally with the local govern-
ments involved, from the inception of their planning process,

before deciding to acquire or withdraw lands from tax rolls

for state park and recreation programs.

Where state or federal recreation or park areas are being
used primarily by residents of a single county, the state and
federal governments should give consideration to offering
such areas to the county government for operation.

The County and the Federal Government. The excel-
lent report to the Congress in January, 1962, entitled Out-

door Recreation for America, by the Outdoor Recreation
Resources Review Commission, is strongly recommended
as a source of information of lasting usefulness. County
government endorses the basic recommendation of this bi-
partisan group that the primary responsibility for adequate-
ly meeting the nation’s recreation and park demands lies
with “private enterprise, the states, and local government”
and that the role of the federal government should not be
one of domination, but of cooperation and assistance in
meeting the nation’s park and recreation challenge. (See
“Outdoor Recreation for America,” RECREATION, October,
1963; “New National Recreation Area System,” Jane 1963 ,'
and “Outdoor Recreation in America,” March and April
1962.)

The County and the Private Sector. Some two-thirds of
the nation’s land is privately owned. Collectively, these
lands have an enormous potential for park and recreation
development, at private expense, which has been only par-
tially realized. Counties should seek opportunities to stim-
ulate such development. County cooperation should include
the provision of access roads, where feasible and traffic
volume will justify, to permit the park and recreation devel-
opment of private lands. Counties should support state
legislation exempting private owners of land from tort
liability where lands are opened for general public recrea-
tional use without charge to the public. Public agencies
should acquire conservation easements over private lands,
where feasible, to preserve open spaces in and around urban
areas.

Counties should cooperate with and support in every way
possible the efforts of private businesses and of charitable,
service and civic organizations to acquire and appropriately

manage recreation and park sites which serve public needs.

 

HYDROLOGIC BENCHMARK

f‘

FAMOUS Crater Lake in Oregon has

been selected as a “benchmark” in
a national network of hydrologic study
sites maintained by the U.S. Geological
Survey. Crater Lake, a national park,
occupies the cavity of an extinct vol-
cano, encompassing an area of 27.5
square miles of which 20.4 square miles
is lake area. Dr. Luna B. Leopold, chief
hydrologist of the survey, said, “Crater
Lake is the seventeenth in a growing
number of carefully selected sites that
meets the survey’s purpose~—-the estab-
lishment of a network of relatively un-
defiled areas throughout the nation in
order to define natural hydrologic
trends so that, by comparison, changes
in areas affected by man can be evalu-
ated. It is the first lake site to be added
' to the network. All others are on small
protected national or state streams.

JUNE, 1964

“Diversions, storage dams, pollution,
dredging, and industrial use are some
of the ways in which man has and will
continue to alter important hydrologic
characteristics of an area. It is impor-
tant, therefore, to find out as much as
possible about variations in quantity or
quality of water that might result from
natural or manmade causes.” The sur-
vey hydrologist said that Crater Lake
National Park meets the principal cri-
terion for the selection of a hydrologic
preserve in that its drainage basin will
remain permanently protected in its
“virgin” state, unaffected by man.

Dr. Leopold hopes that scientists rep-
resenting several natural environmental
disciplines, such as botany, zoology,
and climatology, will eventually join in
the effort of studying the “untouchable”
sites in order to advance ecological

studies of importance to the nation. “It
is my hope, also,” says Dr. LeOpold, “to
see our hydrologic network grow into
an international effort.

“We have devoted most of our major
attention to the establishment of costly
and complicated programs which take
years to initiate. The proposition of an
international ‘vigil’ network of land-
scape observations on small drainage
basins can start on a relatively simple
basis, well within the practical limita-
tions of manpower and money of even
the smallest of countries.”

The hydrologic network is described
in a booklet entitled A National Net-
work of Hydrologic Bench Marks (Geo-
logical Survey Circular 460-8) and may
be obtained without charge from the

Geological Survey, Department of the
Interior, Washington, D.C. 20242.

271

STATE PARKS RECREATION MENU

William H. Radke

Kentucky state parks
offer visitors
a recreation menu

of planned activities

RECREATION HIS-
tory is being
made in the Ken-
tucky park
system. Capitaliz-
ing on the Daniel

state

Boone theme, park
signs utilize a
tongue-in-cheek approach to the litter
problem. Posters and billboards that
read: “Dan’l Broome Swept Here” re-
mind today’s explorers that “Kentucky’s

‘——....r-—' w-r

Mn. “was, director a] field services for
the Suburban Communin Chest Coun-
cil in Berwvn, Illinois. was formerly su—
perintendent of recreation in Brook-

neld, I llinois.

Beauty is Everyone’s Duty.” So Dan’l
is related to the recreation pioneering in
thirteen Kentucky state parks where,
under the direction of Charles Spears.
state recreation ollicer, twelve weeks of
planned recreation programs are of-
fered free to park visitors. This new
program not only attracts travelers but
keeps them happy and active in a guest-
like atmosphere. By vacation’s end, the
tourist is planning an early revisit and
tourism is Kentucky’s second largest in-

(lustry.

Formalized recreation
were introduced into the park system
three years ago to form a state-level

breakthrough in public recreation. The

programs

RECREATION

p.

 

 

Above. Planned, supervised recreation pra-
grams in Kentucky's state parks are baan ta
children and parents alike. Even very small
parks salve babysitting problem far a fee.

left. Life is faithful ta art. These figures did
nat step from a stained-glass window but
are actars in outdoor praductian at The Baak
of Job given at Pine Mauntain State Park.

Right. Kentucky's famed pianeer reappears
on billbaards ta da battle with new menace
attacking parks and wilderness. Anather sla-
gan: Kentucky's Beauty ls Everyane's Duty.

Below. Tennis instructian and play are to be
found on state park menu and appeal par-
ticularly to teenagers. Playing equipment is
available at the recreatian supply raam.

 

 

273

idea was originally conceived by Ed-
ward V. Fox, commissioner of parks,
and the format is familiar to profes-
sional recreationists. The recreation
day is divided into three two-hour seg-
ments with program planned for morn-
ing, afternoon, and evening. Since all
ages travel, programs are balanced
within the limitations of park facilities
and appeal to young and old.

Charley Spears knows of no other
state park system which offers this ex-
tensive program or makes such a de-
termined effort to satisfy the visitors’
desires. “Our supervised park pro-
grams run from June to September,”
he says, “and participation is high.
Dad and Mom can go fishing for a cou-
ple of hours, play golf or follow the
riding trails with the confidence that
their small fry will be busy, happy, and
supervised in their absence. We even
have a baby-sitting service at reasona-
ble rates. Programs offer a great get-
acquainted opportunity for park visi-
tors who arrive among their many new
friends. VVe are convinced that the
nine and nine-tenths cents per visitor
it costs to put on a program is a fine
investment. Most park activities are
offered without charge to our guests
who may be staying at the lodge, in the
camping area or in a cottage. Because
of program popularity, we expanded
our 1963 program to thirteen parks, as
against ten in 1962. We plan to go to
fourteen in 1964 which will bring our
recreation staff to twenty-two, includ-
ing three full-time recreation leaders.”

Mr. Spears explains that personnel
is gleaned from the teaching staff and
student body of schools and colleges.
Regular, year-round park personnel
who show an aptitude for recreation
leadership are also drafted. The season
starts with a training workshop. Park
recreation directors prepare advance
weekly programs for approval but are
permitted to vary them to suit the de-
sires of the visitors. If, in a given week,
for example, archery has a great inter-
est for the current visitors but the arch-
ers leave the following week, something
else may be substituted. Leaders try to
organize any activity requested by a
reasonable number of vacationers.
Leaders also keep dain records de-
signed to include activity description,
tune. location. weather, attendance, and
particripants’ reaction.

2%

“Most personnel,” Mr. Spears says
“find the work so interesting and grati-
fying that they return from summer to
summer. This helps tremendously from
a training point Of view. We feel that
it takes nearly six weeks for a new per-
son to get the feel of his dual role of
directing program and being a host as
well. The experienced person can step
right in and get things rolling the first
week. We don’t place restrictions on
academic training. We seek the best
people available for the jobs, those with
a natural aptitude. Eventually we hope
to have an academically trained staff.”

THE PARK VISITOR is given a “Recre-

ation Menu” upon arrival. This is
not a figure of speech but actually an
outline of activities planned for the cur-
rent week. It tells what is going on,
when, and where. It’s called a “menu”
since there are usually several things
occurring simultaneously and the tour-
ist has a choice. A few things, such as
horsebacking and craft supplies, require
a fee.

The most popular indoor activities,
according to Mr. Spears, are film pro-
grams, games, and dancing; these drew
eighty-six thousand participants. This
points up a serious deficiency in the
physical plant. Park buildings were
originally designed without provision
for recreation programs. Makeshift
space is devised by utilizing halls, foy-
ers, diningrooms, storerooms, and of-
fices. Mr. Spears says this space short-
age is being licked as fast as budget will
allow, by the construction of new build-
ings plus additions to existing ones.

Nature hikes conducted by park rec-
reation naturalists are most interesting
and informative. They have attracted
ninety-four thousand hikers of all ages.
Square dancing is a favorite pastime
and supervisors do the instructing and
calling f0r all ability levels. On occa-
sion, professional callers are brought in
for the further enjoyment of the guests.
Where nearby points of interest are
found, leaders organize auto caravans

Territory is but the body of a na-
tion. The people who inhabit its
hills and valleys are its soul, its

spirit, its life.
—JAMES A. GARFIELD.

 

which stop at selected locations to ex-
plore and take photos. Bingo has been
a favorite among the adults. Since no
fee is charged and simple prizes are
given, there was little criticism among
the seventy-four thousand players.
With age as no barrier, the “learn-
to-swim” classes included beginners -
from seven to seventy-four. Eighteen
hundred non-swimmers increased their
knowledge during the summer.

OUTDOOR DRAMA is performed in sev-
eral parks with productions on a
combined professional and amateur
level; The Book of Job, for example,
has been produced at Pine Mountain
State Park and just completed its fifth
season. Actors are made up to appear
as having stepped from a stained-glass
window.

Governor Bert Combs is highly grati-
fied with the great interest that in-park
recreation programs have developed
among tourists. Governor Combs has
been instrumental in promoting this
phase and encouraged its expansion at
every opportunity. “The Common-
wealth of Kentucky has a fine climate
and great natural beauty,” he states.
“It is traditional that we should do
everything possible to make our guests
as comfortable as we know how.”

The professional recreation person
may look at Kentucky as a proving
ground for state-sponsored recreation
programs. There seems little doubt that
this is a harbinger of recreation expan-
sion across the nation. Any state seri-
ously concerned with attracting visitors
to its borders will do well to explore the
Kentucky experiences and view the evi-
dence. To be sure, most states have
some form of recreation in their parks,
but the statewide, formalized program
is a new approach—and a great service
to the traveler.

State officials should critically exam-
ine their own areas and see if they are
doing everything possible to add to the
pleasure of those who visit their parks.
Is there an air of hospitality present?
Do visitors leave wanting to return, or
do they go on . . . looking for something
more satisfying?

We in recreation may tip our hats
toward Kentucky. It has found a for-
mula and is proving it more forcibly
with each passing year. #-

RECREATION

.O",
44;;

GULF STREAMED
RECREATION

County recreation program zooms into orbit

Miami Beach, host city for the 46th
National Recreation Congress, October
4-9, not only has its own distinctive rec-
reation story to tell (RECREATION, April
1964) but it is part of a county where
recreation programs have really zoomed
into orbit. Here is the amazing story
of recreation in Dade County.

Art Peavy

HE VARIED recreation program in
T Dade County, Florida, runs the
gamut from fashion shows at
a 17th-century Italian Palazzo to a
to a junior Artists Day at the zoo!
The Metro Dade County Park and
Recreation Department at Miami,
Florida, has an active county-wide rec-
reation program which began in 1958
with a superintendent and grew to a
staff of five in two years and then, with
proper financing, mushroomed by 1963
into a program of a million participants
directed by 113 full-time and 168 part-
time employees. The Metro-directed
program utilizes other park facilities,
schools and schoolgrounds after hours,
and neighborhood centers still being
built even today.

An important adjunct to this pro-
gram was the agreement reached be-
tween the Dade County School System
and the Park and Recreation Depart-
ment for Dade County, which permits
use of all school facilities after school
hours to be used as neighborhood rec-
reation centers. The agreement states
that the recreation program has prior-
ity over all other activities other than
the basic education program carried out
by the individual school. As a further

MR. PEAVY is superintendent of recrea-
tion for the Dade County Park and Rec-

reation Department in Miami, Florida.

JUNE, 1964

sign of the fine cooperation of these two
government bodies, the person norm-
ally assigned by the school to handle
after-school programs now works under
the supervision of the recreation staff
according to the agreement. The only
charge to the parks department is for
janitorial services that require extra
custodians to be assigned.

The recreation division began with
twelve school centers in 1961 when

into a parks and recreation department
—it concentrated on recreation activi-
ties of a county-wide nature. Today, it
would be hard to visualize a marble-
shooting contest on the steps of the
downtown skyscraper county court-
house, but back in the early days of the
department this was an annual activity
under the programs and special-activi-
ties section of the department.

Other early activities of the depart-

 

Viscaya, Italian Renaissance palazzo built by a multi-millionaire as his winter residence on Biscayne
Bay in Miami, is now a public museum operated by Dade County Park and Recreation Department.

money became available from Florida
Power and Light Company franchise
tax collected in unincorporated areas
designated to be Spent there for recrea-
tion. Today, with approximately
$850,000 a year to work with, it has
twenty-two school centers in operation
in addition to twenty-nine neighbor-
hood parks and centers. The facilities
are still growing.

Even during the early days of the

department -— prior to reorganization

ment were fishing contests for children.
These were exceedingly popular, and,
as a result, several waterfront areas are
still available for fishermen under the
age of sixteen to try their luck at these
specially designated spots. An annual
community affair was a Coconut Festi‘
val. This was held at one of the ocean--
front parks and had a true tr0pic-island
flavor with outdoor pit-roasted BBQ
pigs, Polynesian sword dancers, and

Continued on Page 313

275

SMALL
WATERSHED

I I : Ol l I 1 C I t I’ Boating is popular on lake Malone, a nine hundred-acre reservoir formed

in the Mud River Watershed proiect for flood prevention and recreation.

An answer to the popular demand for more water-based outdoor recreation areas

This lake in Illinois Old Tom Creek Watershed proiect is used for recreation purposes by a sportsmen's club as well as church and youth gr ups.

gum-A

 

Hollis R. Williams

THE DEMAND for
outdoor recre-
ation areas far out-
strips existing fa-
cilities in many
parts of the nation.

 

People seeking the
out-of-doors
water; they want to go swimming, boat-
ing, fishing, and water skiing. They also
want to go camping, picnicking, and
hiking, preferably near water sites. An
L Outdoor Recreation Resources Review
Commission survey shows that forty-

want

four percent of the population prefers
water-based recreation activities over
any other, and this trend is on the in-
crease.

How will the demand for more water-
based public recreation areas be met?
Many state and local governments are
finding a solution through the U. S. De-
partment of Agriculture’s Small Water-
shed Program which has been so suc-
cessful in flood prevention, erosion con-
trol, agricultural water management,
and supplying water for municipal and
industrial uses, and fish and wildlife
development.

MR. WILLIAMS is deputy administrator
for watersheds, Soil Conservation Serv-

ice, U. S. Department of Agriculture,
Washington, D. C.

It has been evident for some time that
small watershed projects offer excellent
opportunities for public recreation de-
velopments. The ORRRC report states
that “the broad scope of the small
watershed program places it in a par-
ticularly favorable position to contri-
bute to public recreation opportunities.
Most of the nation’s small watersheds,
including many adjacent to metropoli-
tan areas, are eligible for treatment.”

The potential contribution of small
watershed projects in meeting the pub-
lic recreation needs was recognized by
Congress when it passed legislation to
broaden the Watershed Protection and
Flood Prevention Act (Public Law 566)
late in 1962. Now the federal govern-
ment, through the Soil Conservation
Service, may cost share up to fifty per-
cent for enlarging dams for recreation
use, acquiring land, easements, and
rights-of-way for the larger reservoir
and adjacent land, and in construction
of minimum basic facilities needed for
public health, safety, and access.

There are, of course, certain general
policies and provisions surrounding the
use of this new recreation authoriza-
tion. For one thing, the recreation de-
velopment must be available to the pub-
lic. There must be at least one access
road, and the entire immediate shore-

line of a reservoir must be open to the
public, thus preventing private land-
owners from exclusive use of any sec-
tion of the shoreline. Local sponsors
may charge a user fee to cover main-
lenance and operating costs.

Watershed projects under Public Law
566 are local projects. They are initi-
ated, partly financed, built, and main-
tained by the local sponsoring groups.
The sponsors also own all the structures
that might be built. Groups eligible to
sponsor or co-sponsor a watershed proj-
ect include soil and water conservation
districts, municipalities, counties, con-
servancy districts, state agencies, and
others so authorized by the state gov-
ernment. Applications approved by the
designated state agency and the SCS
state conservationist are sent to the
Washington SCS office for further ac-
tion.

The new recreation provision of the
Small Watershed Program has already
been widely accepted, particularly by
state park and fish and wildlife agen-
cies, county governments, and munici-
palities. The recreation lakes, their op-
eration, and maintenance remain under
control of local organizations or state
agencies and can be operated as a part
of the state park systems or in what-

ever manner local organizations may

A tract of land including a lake in Georgia's Sautee River Watershed project was deeded by the owner to the Yonah Girl Scout Council for a summer camp.

t

JUNE, 1964

,g.

 

determine as consistent with state poli-
cies.

WATERSHED projects have repeated-
ly proven their worth through
the nation in preventing destructive
floods, halting soil erosion, supplying
water for municipal and industrial
needs, enhancing fish and wildlife re-
sources, providing water for irrigation,
and improving drainage. The flood de-
tention reservoirs, designed to catch
peak runoff water from rainfall, are
ideally suited for recreation and for fish
and wildlife developments. Water im-
poundments backed by the earthen
dams range in size from less than ten
acres to more than two hundred acres.
The average runs about thirty acres. To
date, there have been more than three
thousand such reservoirs constructed
in watershed projects.

Prior to the new provision, many of
these reservoirs were developed for rec-
reation purposes through the generosity
of individual landowners who con-
trolled the land surrounding them.
These developments, however, have
been minimal except where state and
local governments were involved in the
undertaking.

Such an undertaking is well illus-
trated in Kentucky’s Mud River multi-
purpose watershed project, where the
State Department of Fish and Wildlife
Resources has sponsored the recreation
phase of the project to serve the needs
of an estimated half million visitors an-
nually. One of the project’s twenty-six
Hood-detention reservoirs was enlarged
to create a nine hundred-acre lake in
picturesque rolling, wooded country.
The lake will be used for swimming,
fishing, boating, and water skiing. The
state purchased adjoining land for a
public park for picnicking, hiking, and
camping. Thirty miles of roads have
been constructed, and electricity and
telephone lines have been installed to
service the area. f F or more on Ken-
tucky state parks, see Page 272.)

It is expected that tourists, attracted
by the new lake and recreation facili-
ties, will add greatly to the local econo-
m) which has depended primarily on
agriculture up to now. The new lake
is the only body of water of any size
within a hundred miles.

Recreation is not the only way local
people will benefit from the project. It

'0
tn

also offers flood protection to the 1,860
farmers in the 240,000-acre watershed.
One community has tapped one of the
watershed project’s reservoirs for much
needed municipal water. As a result,
small industries have sprung up and
others have expanded.

HE CITY OF Plain Dealing, Louisi-
ana, sponsored the recreation de-
velopment in the Upper West Fork Cy-
press Bayou Watershed project. The
city now has two lakes, one with 104
and the other with ninety-eight surface
acres, for recreation. The larger reser-
voir also furnishes the community with
750,000 gallons of water daily for mu-
nicipal use. A sixty-acre park adjoins
the lake and has been developed for rec-
reation by community, civic, and serv-
ice groups, businessmen, and indivi-
duals.

The lakes were stocked with fish by
the Louisiana Fish and Wildlife Serv-
ice. As many as three thousand people
have been attracted to the lakes in a
single day. It is interesting to note that
when small watershed projects now be-
ing developed in Louisiana are com-
pleted, they will add more than thirty-
five hundred surface acres of water in
the state. Most of this area will be de-
veloped for some recreation uses.

In 1963, the first year the recreation
provision of the watershed act was made
available, a total of sixty-one proposals
were made to add recreation in fifty-
iive watershed projects in twenty-nine
states. The cost of these developments
—to enlarge structures, obtain land
rights, and install minimum basic facili-
ties—would run approximately
$27,400,000, of which local groups
would be responsible for $14,800,000
and the federal government allotting
$12,600,000. The developments would
provide for an estimated 3,700,000
user-days of water-based recreation an-
nually.

THE Department of Agriculture also

encourages church and private or-
ganizations, such as sportsmen’s clubs,
youth groups, and the like in develop-
ing recreation sites in watershed proj-
ects. Since these developments are not
open to the general public, there is no
cost sharing, but technical help and
loans are available. Private groups

have been quick to recognize the recre-
ation potential of watershed lakes. For
example, the Tennessee-Arkansas- Mis-
sissippi Council of Girl Scouts is spon-
the recreation development
around one of the reservoirs in Tennes-
see’s Porters Creek Watershed project
as a permanent summer camping area
for the council’s nine thousand scouts.

soring

The council owned twelve hundred
acres on which a watershed Hood deten-
tion dam was to be built. The council
granted an easement to build the dam
on its property and paid $56,000 to en-
large it for recreation purposes. How
was it financed? Virginia Jones, the
council’s executive director, said, “We
don’t figure in dollars. We figure in
cookies. The lake has cost us about
three hundred thousand boxes of cook-
ies, dutifully sold by Girl Scouts in the
three states.”

When completed, the camp will house
more than five hundred girls and their
counselors at one time. Girl Scouts
have also developed a summer camp in
Georgia’s Sautee River Watershed proj-
ect and have a $250,000 development

under way in the Wildlife Creek Water-
shed project in Oklahoma.

As 0F February 1, 2,056 applications
had been made for watershed devel-
opment under Public Law 566. Of this
number, 530 are under construction
and an additional 618 are in the plan-
ning stage. There are thirteen thousand
watersheds under 250,000 acres in the
United States, of which slightly more
than eight thousand need project action
on for flood prevention, erosion con-
trol, and the like. The USDA believes
recreation developments could be in-
corporated in several thousands of these

pro ects.

Although the United States is en-
dowed with many natural water acres,
there are many factors limiting them
for recreation development such as lack
of public access, pollution, and geo-
graphic location. Small watershed
projects, on the other hand, can be and
are being sponsored in almost any part
of the nation. Developed projects have
brought water-based recreation closer
to hundreds of thousands of people al-
ready. In the future, small watershed
projects can do much in filling the out-
door recreation demands of millions. #

RECREATION

Multi—

Level
ZOO

MODERN and distinctive zoo now
A being built for the City of Los

Angeles will reflect a dramatic
break from traditional design. Moats
and barriers will be utilized instead of
fences and cages, permitting intimate
views of all specimens from safe posi-
tions on surface walks. Bridge spans
will provide exciting panoramas of the
exhibit areas from above.

Financed from $6,613,000 set aside
for its construction in the 1957 Recrea-
tion and Parks Bond Fund, the Greater
Los Angeles Zoo will be located in Grif-
fith Park. The site was selected as an
ideal location because of its size, cli-
matic conditions, and accessibility. The
architectural firm of Charles Luckman
Associates has designed the facility, and
the first phase, including the three-acre
children’s zoo, will be completed short-
ly after Labor Day. Meanwhile, citizens
are working with the city recreation and
parks department to collect rare speci-
mens of animals, birds, and reptiles
from around the world.

The zoo is planned as a living mu-
seum of the world’s fauna, but it will be
more than a wild animal exhibit—it
will provide an essential breeding place
for species of animals fast becoming ex-
tinct. Already many species have dis-
appeared; some are on the verge of ex—
tinction; others are threatened and few
are safe. Among the near-extinct ani-
mals hoped to be acquired for the new
zoo is the Arabian oryx. Less than a
dozen of these are known to be alive.
The orangutans and gorillas, for exam-
ple, are in great danger of becoming
extinct. To help preserve the species,

JUNE, 1964

,e liner
1 gas” 3%”. i
“‘1‘ , a. . 
‘9'“ 1
Aa/ ‘ T «at I 0-,

     
 

u
.i' '.7 ~‘,r°
.a ‘9‘

3i%§%tlrl-

Wm

 
  

; J, , -. ‘ :- I I
ifi!:i.h,gjr_lal__  . A

lily
.  . tit}!-

 

Modern Facilities
for Recreation

The new zaa will take full advantage of its hilly terrain as well as its

man-made levels.
a “tree house"

family groupings of these are planned
at the zoo. New species emerging on the
world scene, but still rare, such as the
saiga antelope from Central Europe
and Russia, are also desirable acquisi-
tions.

The zoo will be divided into five
“continental” areas. In each, the ani-
mals from a particular continent will
be grouped together in a setting depict-
ing their native environment. For in-
stance, animals from Africa will all be
seen in that section of the zoo devoted
to the African continent. Each of the
five “continents” will have its own spe-
cially designed spectrum of colors and
materials. Thus, each continental area,
will in effect, be a complete zoo in itself.
For the first time in zoo history, visitors
will enj oy the unusual aspects of a “two-
level” zoo. A unique viewing vantage
will be achieved by spectator bridges
over animal compounds thus taking full
advantage of the hilly terrain in the

Grillith Park site.
At the Children’s Zoo, youngsters will

Tap, a maat separates man from giraffe.
arcade provides stairs and slides to the lower levels.

Above,

actually mingle with, and caress, baby
animals. A gayly styled pavilion will
house educational exhibits and demon-
strations. There will also be a play
area where children can sit upon, and
scramble over, friendly, uncomplaining
sculptures of jungle and barnyard ani-
mals.

Centrally located in the main zoo
area will be an unusual twin-spired res-
taurant surrounded by satellite pavil-
ions providing shelter for educational
exhibits and information facilities as
Well as comfortable outdoor relaxation.
Because of its central location, this
structure’s 104-foot spires will be clear-
ly visible from every corner of the zoo
providing directional guidance and a
convenient rallying point for visiting
groups.

George Hjelte, who retired as gener-
al manager of the Los Angeles City Rec-
reation and Parks Department in 1962,
has been serving as a full-time consul-
tant in the planning, organization, and
construction of the new zoo.

279

 

PART 11 FUN AND FITNESS

 

Summer sports

play their part

in a well balanced

.280

youth program

 

SPORTS FITNESS
CAMPS

 

Dorothea Graham, Sports Fitness Di-
rector, Bureau of Parks and Public Rec-
reation, Portland, Oregon.

EVERY BOY AND
GIRL needs a
balanced program
of physical educa-
tion, health educa-
tion, and recrea-

Therefore,

Portland, Oregon,
has developed sports-fitness camps as

tion.

 

part of its summer youth program. The
summer sports camp provides activities
that develop strength, flexibility, endur-
ance, and coordination. It provides op-
portunity to participate in sports and
other physical activities and contributes
to the wholesome use of leisure, the cre-
ation of character, and the development
of health and optimum physical fitness.
It helps youngsters participate in sports
in a Sportsman-like manner, to appre-
ciate techniques, strategy, artistry, ac-
complishment, and similar qualities in
the performance of sports; to appreci-
ate the history of sports; to appreciate
the cultural significance of sports; and
to appreciate the personal significance
of sports and other physical-education
activities.

The sports-fitness camp was estab-
lished to meet the fitness needs of youth
in the city within the program of the
Bureau of Parks and Public Recreation.
Since its inception seven years ago, it
has been one of the most popular activi-
ties of the summer. The program has
developed from one camp into three,
with requests from various sections of
the city to have a camp in their area, but
due to limitation of staff and facilities
it has been necessary to limit the oper-
anon.

The first camp was situated at a park
next to a high school where gym facili-

ties were available. However, to draw
interest in thelprogram at that time, the
major portion of the program was held
out of doors. This involved moving the
trampoline, mats, et cetera, but the ad-
vertising results were tremendous, and
the staff felt that all the hard work was
well worth the moving of equipment.

A large portion of the program is still
carried on outside, and, with the co-
operation of the school district, the
camps have full use of the school ath-
letic facilities, particularly the appara-
tus and wrestling rooms used daily for
various activities. Maintenance is car-
ried out by school or park depending
upon the facilities used and all equip-
ment is furnished by the park depart-
ment.

AT EACH of the three camps, enroll-
ment is limited to a maximum of
sixty-five boys and the same number of
girls. Each child must have reached his
ninth birthday before the camp starts
and must not be over thirteen. All ses-
sions are usually filled by June 1, with
the program starting around the fif-
teenth of the month.

Each camper registers in advance for
a choice of sessions. There are three
sessions of three weeks, Monday through
Friday. The day is divided, with the
girls arriving at 9AM and ending at
noon, and the boys participating from
1:30 to 4:30PM. There is a small reg-
istration fee charged which includes a
lettered T-shirt.

The staff is composed of directors
particularly interested in sports, who
have a general knowledge of all activi-
ties, and who are possibly specialists in
one particular field. This staff of three,
one woman and two men, work with
both the girls and boys, and it has been
found to balance the program quite
well. Some have questioned the use of
a woman in the boys’ program, but the
bureau has been fortunate in the quality
of its personnel, and the boys, in par-
ticular, have looked forward to some of
the classes under a woman’s leadership.

It is stressed upon each camper that

RECREATION

he wear clean clothes and that he will
derive more benefit if he attends regu-
larly. Since this is a recreation pro-
gram, there is emphasis on fun along
with accent on correct techniques and
procedures. Some campers have re-
turned for threelyears, and quite a few
get special mention for perfect atten-
dance. Parents have been most appre«
ciative of the camp and look forward
along with the children to next year’s
opening.

One day at the beginning and end of
each session is devoted to physical-fitness
testing. The six-part test includes sit-
ups, pullups (modified for girls), shut-
tle run, standing broad jump, softball
throw, and fifty-yard dash. Depending
upon the group, it may be necessary to
put a limit on the number of situps (a
time limit of two minutes is effective)
and on the modified pullups for the
girls. This can best be judged with
each group, but a watchful eye must al-
ways be kept on the health of the camp-
er. Each child keeps an individual
scoresheet and these are filed away and
are taken home after the last test.

THE DAY for the camper begins with
the Pledge of Allegiance to the
flag, followed by rhythmic exercises
(calisthenics is an unpopular word) for
a period of twenty minutes. The girls’
program includes simple folk dances
and has been well received. The staff
takes turns in leading the exercises, and,
within a week or ten days, it is gradu-
ally turned over to the campers. Each
child is assigned a certain sport for the
exercises and during this activity one
of the instructors takes the roll. The
exercise period usually cannot end with-
out a game or two of “Simon Says.”
The campers are divided into one of
three groups according to ability and
age classification, dependent upon the
first day testing program. These groups
participate in three different activities
for the next hour and a half on a rotat-
ing basis, with a change of staff per-
sonnel. Each group picks a name; they
have come up with “Hellcats,” "‘Un-

JUNE, 1964

beatables,” “Physical Wrecks,” et cet-
era. The activities may include gym-
nastics and posture training—appara-
tus, tumbling, stunts, trampoline, bal«
ance beams, and posture training—and
sports and games—basic mechanics of
individual play and team strategy, in-
cluding games of simple organization,
soccer, volleyball, touch football, soft-
ball for girls, wrestling, and tennis.
During the three weeks in track and
field, the camper works to attain his
AAU Junior Physical Fitness certifi-
This has been a keen source of
individual competition and has in-
creased the interest in track and field
in the area. Not all campers pass the
test and receive their awards, but all
have tried and worked towards this final

cate.

achievement. Included in the citywide
program is a weekly track meet in
which all campers are encouraged to
participate.

APPARATUS is developing new popu-

larity with the use of rings, bars,
springboard, horse, buck, et cetera.
Many of the boys and girls have been
introduced to this equipment at camp
and have been quite amazed at the
stunts and various tricks they can ac-
complish in a short time with the proper
teaching techniques. The trampoline
is naturally quite popular and, as with
all aspects of the program, safety is
stressed. It is understood that there
can be no “goofing off.”

For the younger camper there is par-
ticular stress on basic movements—how
to catch, throw and kick a ball (soft-
ball, soccer, volleyball, football). By
the means of adapted relays and games,
these techniques are then put into mo-
It is always a source of inspira-
tion to the staff to see the gains made

tion.

along this line.

The last activity period of the day is
devoted to swimming. Instruction fol-
lows the teaching progression as given
by the American Red Cross, and ARC
tests are administered and certificates
awarded to those who qualify. Many
of the campers are ardent swim enthu-

 

PROGRAM

siasts and have entered swim meets both
in and out of the city. But the great
thrill comes when they compete against
the other camps in the city during the
final week. At times the program is
handicapped by the weather as some of
the outdoor pools are not heated, but
the staff has discovered if it can entice
the youngsters in for a strenuous fifteen
minutes of instruction they are not so
aware of the cold or rainy weather.
Dryland swimming in the gymnasium
has proven to be satisfactory, particular-
ly on elementary backstroke, buddy res-
cue, use of life jackets, et cetera. All
campers must participate in the life-
jacket drill and all nonswimmers are
given a lead-up by various methods.

The sports-fitness camp is a program
which is enjoying success and points
out that discipline can and will be en-
dured by the youngsters during the sum-
mer months. They know there are cer-
tain rules and regulations that must be
adhered to, and yet the fun element
plays a very important part in the daily
schedule.

 

EXPERIMENT
IN FITNESS

 

Vincent D. Bellew, Superintendent of
Recreation, Eastchester, New York.

AT West Point
fitness is al-
most a religion.
The Cadet Prayer
includes the hope
that through self-
discipline the men
will be physically
strong, mentally awake, and morally
Is it possible for the recrea-
tion leader to instill the spirit of the
West Point cadet into the boys of his
Eastchester, New York,
gave it a try. Two years ago Eastches-

straight.

community?

281

ter ran a pilot school in physical fitness.
All media carried the message to the
boys of the town that the first seventy
to sign up would be accepted at the
town’s physical-fitness camp.

The boys eligible for registration
were from the fourth to the eighth
grades. The tuition was only $15.00
for the seven weeks, a half-day session
from 9AM to noon, Monday through
Friday. The staff was headed by a phy-
sical-education teacher with ten college
physical-education students as staff
members. These teachers were screened
not only for athletic prowess but for
personality and dedication as well. They
were anxious to be a part of the experi-
The children and teachers were
all required to wear sneakers, shorts,
and T-shirts. The program included
calisthenics, baseball, football, soccer,
swimming, boxing, wrestling, unarmed
combat, archery, track, sport skills, ten-
nis, golf, and a number of other activi-
ties. The boys took a physical-fitness
test the first week and were given a phy-
sical-fitness report card. They were
tested every two weeks. Comparisons
and conferences were held on individual
weakness and strength. The final re-
port card was sent home to the parents
along with the first one. By compari-
son the average improvement in pull-
ups, situps, pushups, and mountain
climbing was amazing.

The camp’s format was patterned af-
ter the intramural program at West
Point, started in 1921 by General Doug-
las MacArthur and still in existence. At
nine o’clock sharp, the camp bugle
blows and the boys hit the line and
brace. The flag is raised and the boys
pledge allegiance to the flag. Orders of
the day are read off, telling each group
leader the day’s activities. The boys
peel off in columns of two and double-
time to their activity where they go
through fifteen minutes of vigorous cal-
isthenics and drills geared along the
lines of their physical-fitness test. Then
they participate in a particular activity
for an hour. When it is time to play,
they have fun, frolic, and let off steam,
but when it is time to work, they work.
Any infraction of the rules draws penal-
ties such as ten pushups or a run around
the track.

The program is diversified so that
each day the boys get something diiier-

ment.

282

ent, but include always calisthenics and
drill. Special features of the program
are trips to West Point, Yankee Sta-
dium, or Connecticut to watch the foot-
ball Giants practice. While the pro-
gram is both vigorous and disciplined,
it is also flexible enough to bring joy
and interest into the program.

Last year, when Eastchester reopened
the school, sixty of the seventy original
boys returned. Registration closed with
140 boys, with that many more wanting
to be accepted. This year Eastchester
anticipates having two physical-fitness
camps. Interest in the physical-fitness
set-up keeps growing despite the com-
munity’s diversified recreation pro-
gram offered by seventeen public play-
grounds, day schools, play schools, mu-
sic schools, and a variety of other ac-
tivities.

 

TENNIS BOOM

 

Joseph S. Seavey, Recreation Director,
East Detroit Recreation Commission.

TENNIS, once a sport for the few in

East Detroit, Michigan, has now be-
come one of the recreation department’s
year-round activities. In order to
maintain a sound tennis program and
keep up with demands for facilities, the
city this past year completed three new
tennis courts, making a total of nine in
the community. Two courts at the high
school are in poor shape but have been
given temporary maintenance to allow
them to serve as an instruction center
during the summer months. The new
courts at the recreation center allowed
East Detroit to host the state recreation
association meet that drew many of the
states top-ranked players. East Detroit
finished a strong second in the compe-
tition.

Class enrollment for all ages reached
an all time high last year with over four
hundred entrants receiving instruction
on a variety of levels from beginners
stage to advanced tournament. Several
instruction clinics were sponsored, cli-
maxed in August with the appearance
of world-famous tennis star Althea Gib-
son. Continuing big event for tennis
enthusiasts in East Detroit was the

 

It took 0 tennis champ to get this shotl Four-
teen-yeor-old Jodene Scoglia wos Seattle Girls'
Tennis Chompion when she snopped this picture

and took 0 second oword in the iunior division
of the 1960 Kodak High School Photo Contest.

Fourth Annual Tennis Awards Night.

Awards are presented for achievement
in instruction classes and to tourna-
Special individual
awards were presented for outstanding
contributions to the sport to youth and
adults of our community.

To add to the accomplishments of the
tennis staff, East Detroit was justly
proud of its Girls Little League Team
which won the Southeastern Michigan
Tennis Championship. For the first
time in the department’s history, three
of its players ranked among the top ten
by the Southeastern Michigan Lawn
Tennis Association. East Detroit has
also been influential in organizing an
Inter-City Tennis Association that will
work on better methods of instruction,

ment winners.

award systems, tournament promotion
and many other details that should con-
tinue the upsurge of interest in East De-
troit as well as its surrounding commu-
nities.

And so we say . . . TENNIS, EVERY-
ONE?

0 For other articles on recreation de-
partment fitness programs, see “Fun
and Fitness" (Part I), Recreation, May
1964,- "A Physical Fitness Testing Pro-
gram," June 1963,- "Nation-Wide
Testing Program," June 1963,- “Family
Unitv and Fitness, Too,” December

i963.—Ed.

RECREATION

\IAi'IONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION - 1964

THIS

IS YU
N A

 

 

11' -
I u o
I .
I

7/

.lv-.
I
'I
l

.-
_‘.="
li$l

,_!j"

t-Llll
I- .l'
i"- -_’_
.1
I. o
- , 1mg

r :-
,1,
III!
.-

_‘ “Its—Hm

  
  

 
 

".rttil "
a
1,...»‘Ilhi' ' “1"” ‘ m
" I"- "can

      
   

I.‘ Q I N “J!
3‘ Ital--

aOIN“

.
c .£:;u|l . -3.
I r - C. '
a“ ‘ o .3;   u'
n i ‘ H! . ..ib'l,
- '
.‘

In 0 a «q ‘

ARTERS
EIGHTH STREET
RK, N. Y. 10011

 

 

AN INTRODUCTION

 

In April 1964, the National Recreation Association completed fifty-
eight years of service directed toward the provision of adequate and
satisfying recreation opportunities for the people of America. The
Association, founded in 1906, is a national, voluntary, civic organiza-
tion through which professional and lay citizenship participation can
unite to provide the many nationwide services in the field of recrea-
tion which are essential to the sound growth of the recreation profes-
sion and the recreation movement.

This Is Your NRA is a report on the work and services of the Asso-
ciation typical of any current year, based on the figures of 1963. It is
addressed to all Service Afliliates and Service Associates of the Asso-
ciation and to all other persons who are concerned with the provision
of adequate and satisfying recreation opportunities for the people of
America.

It is significant that this report confines itself to the work of the pre-
vious year, for the Association fully realizes that we are on the threshold
of a new era for recreation and if the challenges of the future are to
be met successfully, the Association must act with vision and boldness
in planning for the years ahead. One of the characteristics of the Asso-
ciation over the years has been its ability and willingness to adjust its
activities and services to~economic and social changes and needs as
they occur.

Discussions by the Association, the American Institute of Park Ex-
ecutives, the American Recreation Society and other recreation and
park agencies may lead to mobilizing and structuring the resources of
the various service and professional organizations into a bold new co—
operative approach directed toward helping the nation achieve the best
possible use of a growing leisure time. t

This Is Your NRA presents a proud record; it provides a prelude
of things to come. Your comments and suggestions in developing a

design for the future are most welcome.

Chairman of the NRA Board of Trustees

 

OFFICERS
James H. Evans . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Chairman of the Board Endicott P. Davison . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Vice President
Susan M. Lee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Vice President Norbome Berkeley, Jr. . . .- . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Treasurer
Luther Gulick . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Vice President Joseph Prendergast . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Secretary
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
F. W. H. Adams . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . New York, N. Y. Augustus B. Kinzel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . New York, N. Y.

Alexander Aldrich . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Albany, N. Y. Albert V. LaBiche . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . New Orleans, La.

F. Gregg Bemis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Boston, Mass. Thomas W. Lantz . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Tacoma, Wash.

Norborne Berkeley, Jr. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . New York, N. Y. Susan M. Lee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . New York, N. Y.

Edward L. Bemays . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Cambridge, Mass. Carvel C. Linden . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Portland, Ore.

Mrs. Robert Woods Bliss . . . . . . . . . . . Washington, D. C. Carl M. Loeb, Jr. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . New York, N. Y.

Mrs. Rollin Brown . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Los Angeles, Calif. Mrs. P. P. Manion, Jr. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Tulsa, Okla.

Edwin S. Burdell ‘ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Winter Park, Fla. Fredric R. Mann . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Philadelphia, Pa.

Howard H. Callaway . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Pine Mountain, Ga. Henry W. Meers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Chicago, Ill.

Mrs. Richard M. Colgate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Oldwick, N. J. William C. Menninger . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Topeka,Kans.

Robert W. Crawford . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . Philadelphia, Pa. Hamilton B. Mitchell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Rye, N. Y.

Endicott P. Davison . . . . . . . . . . . . . . New Canaan, Conn. Paul Moore, Jr. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Washington, D. C.

Mrs. Fagan Dickson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Austin, Texas Welles V. Moot . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Buffalo, N. Y.

Charles E. Doell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Minneapolis, Minn. Mrs. Conway H. Olmsted . . . . . . . . . . . . . Lake Forest, lll.

Alan L. Emlen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Philadelphia, Pa. Bernard L. Orell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Tacoma, Wash.

James H. Evans . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Bronxville, N. Y. Lawrence W. Pierce . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Albany, N. Y.

Mrs. Howard A. Frame . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Atherton, Calif. Joseph Prendergast . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . New York, N. Y.

Mrs. George T. Francis, Jr. . . . . . . . . . . . . . Haverford, Pa. Mrs. Richard E. Riegel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Montchanin, Del.

S. Dale Furst, Jr. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Williamsport, Pa. Sanger P. Robinson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Chicago, Ill.

Mrs. Paul C. Gallagher . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Omaha, Nebr. Fred R. Sammis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . New York, N. Y.

Luther Gulick . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . New York, N. Y. Arthur B. Shepley, Jr. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . St. Louis, Mo.

George Hjelte . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Los Angeles, Calif. William S. Simpson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Bridgeport, Conn.

L. B. Houston . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Dallas, Tex. Gus Tyler . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Great Neck, N. Y.

James S. Hudnall . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Tyler, Tex. Frederick M. Warburg . . . . . . . . . . . . . . New York, N. Y.

Roscoe C. Ingalls, Jr. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Bronxville, N. Y. G. Harold Welch . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . New Haven, Conn.

Arthur H. Jones . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Charlotte, N. C. Albert C. Whitaker, Jr. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Wheeling, W. Va.

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATIO

A Service Organization Supported by Voluntary Contributions
JOSEPH PRENDERGAST, Executive Director

HEADQUARTERS STAFF

Executive Director’s Office

Charles E. Hartsoe
Charles M. Christiansen

Personnel Service
Willard C. Sutherland

Areas and Facilities Planning
and Surveys

G. Leslie Lynch
Katherine F. Barker Memorial

Mary Gubernat

Field Department
Arthur E. Todd

Research Department

Betty van der Smissen
Robert M. lamieson

Correspondence and Consultation
Service and International Recreation
Service

Donald V. Joyce

New England District
Waldo R. Hainsworth

Northbridge. Mass.
Bristol, N. H.

Richard A. Tapply

Middle Atlantic District
Richard S. Westgate

Temple, Pa.

Program Service

Virginia Musselman
Siebolt H. Frieswyk

Recreation Magazine
Dorothy Donaldson Elvira Delany

Specia! Publications
Muriel E. McGann Frank J. Rowe

National Development Ottice

Anne L. New Harold Wilcox
Elizabeth Shine

DISTRICT REPRESEN'I‘A'I‘IVES

Great Lakes District
Robert L. Horney Madison, Wis.
David M. Langkammer Toledo. Ohio

Southern District
Temple R. .larrell Ft. Lauderdale, Fla.

Midwest District
Verna Rensvold Kansas City. Mo.

Secretary for Women and Girls

Elizabeth

A. Miller

Recreation Leadership Training
Courses

Helen M. Dauncey

Anne Livingston

Consulting Service on Recreation
for the Ill and Handicapped

Morton Thompson

Public Information and Education

Patricia Cavanaugh

Joan Little

Southwest District

Robert E. Shipp

.. Dallas, Tex.

Pacific Northwest District

Gerald W. Pelton

Seattle, Wash.

Pacific Southwest District

Charles J. Reitz

Los Angeles, Calif.

 

 

ANSWERING
YOUR
QUESTIONS

 

Reception room
at NRA headquarters.

What Is the National Recreation Association?

It is a national, voluntary, non-profit, nonpartisan and
nonsectarian organization through which professional and
lay recreation leadership. can unite to provide the many
nationwide services in the recreation field essential to the
sound growth of the recreation profession and the recrea-
tion movement.

What Is its Purpose?

It is dedicated to serving all recreation executives, lead-
ers, volunteers and agencies, public and private, to the
end that every child in America shall have a place to play
in safety and that every person in America, young and
old, shall have an opportunity for the best and most satis-
fying use of his expanding leisure time. Its specific serv-
ices are described in the pages that follow.

Who Are its Constituents?

In 1964, the Association’s constituents are the 2,071
recreation agencies in 1,480 communities affiliated with
the Association for service, the 4,536 recreation leaders
in 2,137 communities associated with the Association for
service, the 13,950 financial contributors in over 2,700
communities, and the general public to which its services
are ultimately directed.

How Is the Work of the Association Financed?

NRA’s 1964 budget of $997,000 has received the ap-
proval of the National Budget and Consultation Commit-
tee sponsored by the United Community Funds and Coun-
cils of America and the National Social Welfare Assembly.
Approximately a third of NRA’s support comes from its
own earnings, including general service fees and reim-
bursement for special services, sales of publications, and
interest on endowments. The remaining two-thirds of its
support comes from several hundred volunteer sponsors,
Community Chest and United Funds, foundations, corpo-
rations and individual contributors throughout the coun-

'

 

try. Between 1906 and 1964, the Association raised and
expended a total of $45,083,561.48 for the advancement
of the recreation profession and the national recreation

movement. On December 31, 1963 its assets totaled over
$1,000,000.

How Is It Governed?

By a sixty-member Board of Trustees, composed of
lay and professional recreation leaders and other outstand—
ing representatives of the citizen and professional resources
available to help meet the expanding recreation needs of
the American people. They are listed on Page 4.

Acting in an advisory capacity to the Board of Trustees
are the National Advisory Commission and National Ad-
visory Council. The commission, a twenty-member lay
group, is composed of officially appointed representatives
of national voluntary agencies, plus distinguished citizens
who are active in the field of recreation, and representa-
tive board members of local recreation agencies. The
council is made up of the chairmen of the National and
the District Advisory Committees of the Association and
the president of the Federation of National Professional
Organization for Recreation. This council represents
more than seven hundred professional recreation leaders
serving on NRA’s National and District Advisory Com-
mittees. In addition, 130 state and community lay leaders
served on the Association’s four state and eleven local
advisory committees in 1963.

Why Is Lay Involvement So Important in the Work
of the Association?

0 To represent the citizen at large for whom recreation
services are provided. _

0 To increase the objectivity and the broader acceptance
of services and leadership provided by the Association.

0 To provide an effective liaison between recreation and
the various social and economic segments of society.

0 To effectively interpret and promote recreation to the

 
 
    
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 

INFORMATIO
AND RESEARC

FIELD SERVICE
TO COMMUNITIES

  
 
 

 
 
    
   

40.8% 9.90
INTERNATIONAL
'2% \ RECREATIO
MAGAZIN
10.2
SPONSOR AND N
momma 63,3332;
CONTRIBUTOR 3 - A
SUPPORT 24% PUB“
INFORMATIO
UNITED FUND AND ILL AND AN
ggyphggww CHEST HANDICAPPED EOUCATI
19% {Ila/ANCE 53°
0
RECREATION PERSONNEL
SERVICE 3.8%
NATIONAL RECREATION PUBLICATIO
SOURCES OF INCOME IN 1963 CONGRESS 5.9% FUNCTIONAL EXPENDITURES 1963 9_9

($825.9 39) ($807.9 07)

public at large and to secure adequate backing and sup-
port from both the public and private sectors of the na-
tion.

Why Is Professional Involvement So Important in
the Work of the Association?

0 To provide the best technical counsel and advice avail-
able on the recreation problems and service needs of the
nanon.

0 To strengthen and expand the body of technical knowl-
edge in the field of recreation.

0 To relate the standards and practices of the profession

Why Does the Combined Lay and Professional Ap-
proach Provide Better Recreation Service to the
Nation?

The strength of the national recreation movement lies
both in the diversity and in the wide range of the combined
experience and viewpoints of the professional and lay lead-
ership of America. The layman’s special contribution lies
in the areas of broad public policy, support, interpretation,
and public education. The professional contributes his
technical knowledge, skills, and experiences, with each
contributing to the other’s special competency. The Na-
tional Recreation Association is a joint enterprise whose

to the overall recreation movement. aim is to serve the people and communities of the country.

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION

Board of Trustees
usour-u-nset-noouw-mmM-m- (Lay and Professional) ................................. .: ......................... .-

National Advisory Commission National Advisory Council

(Lay Members} (Professional Members}

   

National. State and Local Citizen

National Functional
Advisory Committees

Advisory Committees

(Lay Members)

(Professional Members)

   

Corrsspondence and
Consultation Se rv-ice

Recreation
Personnel Service

Rsc rearion
Pro; ram 3s rvice

Rscreaticm Research
and Libra:-
Recreation Magazine

Public Information

Spa-rial Publications d Ed t'
an uca ion

Special Services

Consulting Servics
on Recreation for
the Ill and Handicapped

Fund Pals-inf,
a... '.osnc-

National
Recreation Congress

International
Recreation Service

  l l I l l l I l U I I I u I I O O I I l I I O I l I l I O O I O I U I I O I I I I I I I a O...  
H   mo U I U I H l O I n I I I In   0......Oltwl'“II”...m.-V.CCO”C“IIIICIIOIOmnOOOOCOCO’ICHIII  y
La Members Prof ssio iMen-Ibers

District
Representatives
I Planning: and
first nuns to . “I---

Leads rship Training

'n‘tdlasl-Q

District Conferences

 

 

FIELD
SERWCE

 

NRA Takes

Its Services to

the People.

UPON REQUEST, NRA field repre-
sentatives go into the offices and
meeting rooms, and to the play-
grounds, recreation centers, hospitals
and institutions, churches, military in-
stallations, and other places where
people are making plans, training lead-
ers or conducting recreation programs.
They work with professional and vol-
unteer leaders, executives, boards,
and citizens groups in public and pri-
vate recreation agencies on local, state,
and national levels. This on-the-spot
service takes NRA to the people.

In 1963, members of the NRA field
staff made 1,211 visits to 620 com-
munities and 100 military installa-
tions. They participated in 128 meet-
ings of state recreation societies and
73 meetings of other organizations.
They visited 50 colleges and univer-
sities; they planned and participated
in 23 meetings of their district advis-
ory committees and conducted nine
district conferences. They conducted
42 leadership training institutes which
reached more than 2,000 people. They
made 56 surveys, plans, and special
evaluations of recreation areas and
facilities and programs. These serv-
ices were performed by NRA district
representatives, training consultants,
and planners. Field service was also
given by other NRA staff members-—
specialists in program, cultural arts,
and the ill and handicapped.
Service to State Agencies.
Service representatives

Field
work with

l

I 1

1’ ‘~
PACIFIC: NOF‘iTHWEST

5 MIDWEST

“~—--—.l_

4' :'
PAcIfIc SOUTHWEST =,

I
I
0

state park and recreation agencies,
conservation, health, welfare, institu-
tions, planning, extension, economic
development, commissions on aging,
fitness, and children and youth. Com-
mon types of seryices include techni-
cal assistance, information, personnel
training, resource development, pro-
motion of legislation, and assistance to
state recreation societies and associa-
tions.

Service to Federal Agencies. AS
new federal agencies and programs get
under way, the field staff of NRA gets
acquainted with government represen-
tatives in their districts. NRA’s repre-
sentatives have worked closely with
public housing authorities, the U.S.
Extension Service, Veterans Adminis-
tration, National Park Service, U.S.
Forest Service, Housing and Home
Finance Agency, Bureau of Outdoor
Recreation, Department of Health,
Education and Welfare, Department
of Labor, Youth Division, and the Bu-
reau of Land Management.

Service to the Armed Forces. An
important phase of NRA’s field serv-
ice is work with Armed Forces instal-
lations. In 1963, an NRA national
training specialist conducted work-
shops and made field visits to twenty-
eight Air Force bases in twenty-five
states. The director ofINRA Field
Services spent two months in Europe
making an appraisal of the Air Force

ix;
= "\

 

England; district representatives vis-
ited bases and adjacent communities
giving technical help, conducting
workshops, making surveys, recruiting
civilian recreation leaders, and encour-
aging cooperative base-community re-
lationships. One hundred military in-
stallations were visited by NRA repre-
sentatives. The National Advisory
Committee on Defense Related Serv-
ices gathered material for a booklet
on Military-Community Cooperation
Through Recreation, published early
in 1964.

Visits to Colleges and Universities.
The Field Service maintains a close re-
lationship with the colleges and uni-
versities which offer a major in recrea-
tion. NRA representatives visit the
schools as often as possible, speak to
classes, and interview students.
Services to Voluntary Agencies.
Extenive field service is given to non-
government voluntary agencies of all
kinds. Leading the list are community
councils operating under various local
names. In 1963, over fifty of these
councils, community, county, regional,
and a few state-wide in scope, were
serviced by NRA’s district representa-
tives.

Services to community councils
cover a wide range, including technical
assistance on specific problems, plan-
ning facilities and camp sites, program
aids, training, help in improving coor-

recreation center program, visiting dination, surveys, and speaking at

fifteen bases in Germany, France and

meetings. Working through the com-

munity councils has usually proved to
be the most effective way of making
this service count. Other agencies
served include health agencies, civic
groups, unions, hospitals and institu-
tions.

NRA Recreation Planning Service.
The work of NRA’s Recreation Plan-
ning Service is a part of field service
and is supplemented by district repre-
sentatives and outside specialists en-

through special sessions at confer-
ences, speeches, magazine and news-
paper articles, and through consulta-
tion.

Recreation Leadership Training.
NRA’s leadership training staff con-

ducted forty-two institutes and work-
shops in 1963 in twenty-six states for
leaders in youth agencies, playgrounds,
and recreation centers. Over two
thousand leaders received training in

 

Field representatives give on-the—spot park and recreation service.

gaged to serve on the team of con-
sultants to make recreation studies of
various types. These include compre-
hensive long-range plans of area and
facilities, program, personnel, budget
and administration, as well as site
plans and limited studies and evalua-
tions. In 1963, studies of hfty-six
communities were completed or in
process. Sound recreation planning is
promoted by NRA’s Planning Service

social recreation activities, games,
rhythmics, and creative dramatics.
Many of these workshops were con-
ducted at Air Force bases with leaders
from adjacent communities partici-
pating. Three recreation training
courses were given to fifty Peace Corps
volunteers in training at Columbia
University. Nine recreation workshOps

were given by NRA for rural leaders
in New Hampshire.

District Recreation Conference.
NRA’s nine district conferences held
in 1963 attracted a total attendance of
3,584. Paid registrations accounted
for 2,587. Guests, speakers and ex-
hibitors 1,314. There were 185 com-
mercial exhibits and 71 educational
exhibits. Seventy-one agencies coop-
erated in sponsoring the conferences.
District Advisory Committees. Each
NRA district has a committee to ad-
vise the district representatives. help

plan the district conference, improve
communication between recreators,
recruit recreation personnel, and carry
on special projects to strengthen rec-
reation in the district. Members are
appointed by state recreation societies
and by NRA. Examples of specific
projects include the sponsorship and
staHing of a booth at the two-day an-
nual career exposition at Pennsylvania
State College; establishment of a
variety of scholarship funds, a pro-
gram standards and evaluation proced-
ures project in the Great Lakes area;
an inventory of all full-time and part-
time recreation personnel in the Mid-
west and an annual Recreation Execu-
tives School co-sponsored with the
University of Kansas; a board and
commission handbook in the Pacific
Southwest in c00peration with the
Sacramento County Department of
Parks and Recreation; a directory of
all parks and recreation conferences
in the Pacific Northwest and a pro-
gram to encourage cooperation and

coordination between agencies in the
field.

NATIONAL RECREATION CONGRESS

I
1 THE National Recreation Congress is spon-
' sored by the National Recreation Associa-
tion and the American Recreation Society. In
1963, 2204 delegates from the fifty states and
fifteen foreign countries attended the 45th Na-
tional Recreation Congress in St. Louis. Forty-
! live different sessions were held, ranging from
an all-Congress “day-in-depth” dealing with the
subject of leisure to small special-interest ses-
sions, such as the one on ice-rink maintenance.
' The 46th National Recreation Congress will be
j held in Miami Beach, October 4-9.

PUBqu RECREATION
ARMED SERVICE RECREATION
HOSPITAL RECREATION

PRIVATE AGENCY RECREATION
CAMP!!!“

VOLUNTEER AGENCY RECREATION
INDUSTRIAL RECREATION
EDUCATIONAL RECREATION
RECRUITMENT OF STUDENTS

CHURCH RECREATION
INSTITUTIONAL RECREATION
COMMERCIAL RECREATION

LAYMEN EDUCATION AND TRAINING

   
    
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
    

HEADQUARTERS

SERVICES

The executive ohioe
with the executive f-
and personnel directors 9 

 

PERSONNEL

 

THE NRA Personnel Service pro-
vides the professional workers of
the country with the Opportunity to
have their personnel credentials main-
tained at a central place. Some thir-
teen thousand personnel records are
in its combined active and inactive
files. Five hundred and fifty-six new
registrations were added in 1963, and
889 men and women were on its ac-
tive personnel list at the close of the
year.

In 1963, the Personnel Service re-
ceived over. nine thousand communi—
cations related to personnel subjects
which resulted in over seventeen
thousand outgoing communications.
This included over six thousand no-
tices to candidates about position va-
cancies which numbered over four
hundred. It also included 964 sets of
formal confidential personnel records
sent to employers on request.

Request for information. Both em-
ployers and professional leaders re-
quest personnel services other than
those pertaining to employment. Em-
ployers need information on many sub-
jects, such as personnel policies and
practices, salaries, standards, and in-
service training. For the workers,
guidance, counseling and information
on various professional matters are
supplementary services. Over three

hundred individual interviews were
conducted in 1963.

Recruitment. Six universities were
visited by the director of the Associa-
tion’s Personnel Service in 1963, re-

cmll h '
tlllll- ‘

f,

H

i .t-"
1-

i. l"
i

ii -'

a
i
i
l

I

in conference.

sulting in thirty faculty and 163 indi-
vidual student interviews in addition
to student group meetings. Many
other visits were made by field rep-
resentatives of NRA.

With the help of the National Ad-
visory Committee on Recruitment,
several important recent developments
have occurred, such as the prepara—
tion of a script and set of recruiting
slides and launching of a bulletin.

Recruitment and News. The Ralph
Van Fleet Scholarship program; the
inclusion of recreation as a career field
in the College Placement Annual
(240,000 distribution); the Peace
Corps’ occupational manual, and the
Dictionary of Occupational Titles—
these and other special activities, to-
gether with the continuous distribu-
tion of recruiting materials and the
interpretation of recreation at career
conferences and special meetings, help
to round out the total recruiting effort.

Internship. Six interns were en-
rolled in a National Internship pro-
gram in 1963, replacing those who
had completed the training the pre-
ceding year. Since the program start-
ed in 1958, forty-three interns have
been enrolled, receiving over $172,000
from cities in stipends.

Publications and Studies. The de-
partment carries on various studies
and prepares needed publications. It
recently revised and reprinted a
“standard,” Playground Leaders-—
Their Selection and Training. Another
major publication Forceful Commu-

    
 

nication Through Visual Resources
was published in 1963.

The 1963 student inventory and

curriculum study made by the Un-
dergraduate Education Committee
brought up to date the list of univer-
sities conducting major recreation
curriculum and produced current in-
formation on the status of profession-
al preparation and on the supply and
demand of recreation personnel. The
Placement Committee conducted a
salary and wage administration study
completed in 1963. Also, a small
piece was prepared, helpful for re-
cruiting, entitled Are You Proud of
Your Profession, Mr. Recreation Ex-
ecutive? The committee is now re-
vising the publication Personnel
Standards in Community Recreation
Leadership. Twenty-eight positions
will be added as a result of new de-
ve10pments and trends aiiecting rec—
reation personnel.
Institute for Administration. The
Personnel Service is also responsible
for the annual National Institute for
Recreation and Park Administrators.
The Institute quota of one hundred
executives is always oversubscribed.

In addition to general recruiting
and selection services, the director of
the Association’s Personnel Service
has served on examining boards for
t0p executive positions. He also par-
ticipates in district conferences, na-
tional conferences, meetings of the
National Social Welfare Assembly
and the National Committee on Ac-
creditation.

 

 

THE NRA Program Service is highly
visible and widely used. Much of
it is direct service through correspond-
ence, consultations, telephone inquir-
ies, attendance and participation in
conferences, workshops, and meetings.
Some is indirect through preparation
of special resource lists, program ma-
terial, book reviews, magazine articles,
books, and booklets.

It is a perfect example of how one
NRA service dovetails neatly with
other NRA services and, in so doing,
adds strength to the total service. For
example, the over two thousand in-
quiries about activities that come to
the Program Department extend
NRA’s Correspondence and Consul-
tation Service.

Activities and Correspondence. The
wide range of inquiries is fascinating.
Questions about programs for all age
groups come from government agen-
cies and leaders, churches, youth-serv-
ing agencies, PTA’s, business and pro-
fessional clubs, educators at all levels,
men and women from all walks of life.
The Program Service also helps an-
swer inquiries related to program ac-
tivity received by other NRA depart-
ments, such as the NRA International
Service, Defense-Related Services,
and the Consulting Service on the 111
and Handicapped.

Publications. When a gap is evident
in current program literature, efforts
are made to fill it. For example, the

 

 

Day Camp Program Book, written for
NRA and published by Association
Press in 1963, answered a real need
in existing literature. Each year, some
four thousand copies of the Program
Service’s ever-popular Playground
Summer Notebook are snapped up by
recreation departments, youth-serving
agencies, and recreation leaders. In
1963, the service prepared an article
on games for Grolier’s revised Child’s
Book of Knowledge.

Additional factual information and
data have been made available to and
published by the Music Educators
Journal, Back Stage, and Arts Man-
agement.

Work with Other Organizations.
The director of Program Service rep-
resents the NRA on the executive
committee of the National Committee
On Children and Youth, on the Edu-
cation Recreation Committee of the
National Social Welfare Assembly
and on the Film Committee of the
Thomas A. Edison Foundation. The
Association’s special consultant on the
performing arts works with other or-
ganizations involved specifically with
cultural-arts services.

Recreation and the Cultural Arts.
Ever since the NRA added a consul-
tant on the performing arts to its staff,
interest in and deve10pment of cultural
recreation has increased steadily. The
Performing Arts as Recreation series
of pamphlets published as supplements
to RECREATION Magazine, have been
prepared by the service. They include
Dance ls Recreation, Music Is Recre-
ation, Drama ls Recreation, Poetry Is
Recreation.

NRA’s National Advisory Commit-
tee on Programs and Activities, recog-
nizing the progress in cultural recrea-
tion programing, has worked on prep-

 

aration of a Guide to the Organization
and Administration of Cultural Recre-
ation Programs, with data from ninety-
six public recreation agencies.

Special field services on th e per-
forming arts have included consulta-
tion on cultural programs for the US.
First Army, the North Carolina State
Recreation Commission, the West
Orange, New Jersey, Creative Arts
Program, and city and county recrea-
tion agencies.

Other special program services have
included leadership training for Red
Cross volunteers in Nassau County,
New York, help in planning and con-
ducting sessions on cultural recreation
at the North Carolina State Recreation
Society Conference and the Connecti-
cut Governor’s State Recreation Con-
ference, and a music workshop for
Oglebay Institute, Wheeling, West
Virginia.

Services to special organizations
have been given by the consultant as
a member of the Board of the Ameri-
can Educational Theatre Association
and the US. Institute of Theater Tech-
nology, as regional governor of Re—
gion #14 (New York, New Jersey,
Eastern Pennsylvania) of Children’s
Theatre Conference (CTC); vice-
chairman of the Advisory Council for
Children’s Theatre (ACCT); and as
a member of the board of trustees for
the Masterworks Foundation, Morris-
town, New Jersey, and Creative Arts,
lnc., West Orange, New Jersey.

Specific plans are in the offing for
joint undertakings by the John F. Ken-
nedy Center for the Performing Arts
and the National Recreation Associa-
tion, which is an affiliate of the center,
with a view toward assisting in the im-
plementation of the recreational as-
pects of the National Cultural Center

Act of I958.

   

 

CORRESPONDENCE
AND CONSULTATION

 

THIS might be called the “grass-
roots” of NRA service. It covers
the entire field of recreation, reaches
individuals and organizations from
every state in the Union and in at
least ninety other countries through-
out the world. It is a service to which
anyone can turn for a prompt, friend-
ly, and interested reply to any question
or problem in the recreation field.

This kind of free service has been
an important function of the Associ-
ation since the day the organization
was founded. The ability of CCS to
answer thousands of inquiries each
year is not based on the knowledge
and education of any one person, but
upon the accumulated information
and experience of the whole recrea-
tion movement, kept current by close
correlation of the Association’s libra-
ry and information files, recreation
records, new publications, field re-
ports, reports of conferences, studies
and research from many sources, and
by cooperation of all the NRA staff
and the magazine RECREATION.

Stockroom holds hundreds 0 f publications handy for shipment.

The numbers and diversity of the
letters answered enables CCS to con-
stantly feel the pulse of the recreation
movement. It quickly becomes aware
of special needs, interests and trends,
and discovers areas of information
needing more study and development
of within-the-department information
sheets to be used with replies to vari-
ous inquiries.

The director of CCS is also re-
sponsible for meeting, in person, in-
quirers who choose to visit the office
instead of sending a letter, and for
talking with persons who choose to
telephone instead of sending a letter
or visiting the office.

International Recreation Service.
From the standpoint of correspond-
ence, the International Recreation
Service is an extension of CCS’s reg-
ular domestic correspondence service
mentioned above. The cases origi-
nating outside the United States and its
territorial possessions are handled in
much the same manner but on the let-

   

terhead of the NRA International
Recreation Service. In 1963, the In-
ternational Recreation Service load in-
cluded 180 requests from forty-three
countries.

The consultation service of the In-
ternational Recreation Service in-
cludes conferences with individuals
from other countries who are visiting
the United States, under various aus-
pices, and for varying lengths of time.
Most of these visitors from abroad are
especially interested in learning about
the history and services of the Nation-
al Recreation Association and about
the way in which public recreation is
conducted in American communities.

The third work aspect of the Inter-
national Recreation Service is the re-
sponsibility of the director to serve as
the secretary of the National Advisory
Committee for the International Rec-
reation Service. This is a committee
of fifteen, representing each of the
eight NRA field districts, Canada, and
Europe. An annual meeting is held
at the National Recreation Congress.

One of the many busy ohices that make NRA service possible.

H

T”
I.” 'v ..
M Q

‘ ‘v- ‘
u
,

3-.
j s

.. r A‘

r»

 

 

PUBLIC
INFORMATION AND
EDUCATION

 

As PART of its service, the depart-
ment gives advice and help on
the techniques of communication to
NRA Service Afiiliates and Service
Associates. Information and publici-
ty help is available to any recreation
and park leader, individual citizen or
group interested in bettering recrea-
tion in their area. To reach “average
readers,” PIE works with national and
local media—writers and researchers
—as they tell the recreation story
through books, including textbooks,
leading magazines, newspapers, radio
and television.

National Recreation Month. Rec-
ognition of the importance of recrea-
tion at the highest national level is
given through the annual June Recrea~
tion Month message from the Presi-
dent of the United States, arranged
for by PIE. A comprehensive kit with
suggested organization, program, and
publicity ideas for June is sent as an
annual service to all NRA Affiliates.
While the supply lasts, kits are also
available to representatives of other
interested organizations. This materi-
al is designed to help local and na-
tional groups highlight their own rec-
reation services. Special display ma—
terial, a brochure on National Recre-
ation Month, and suggested sports for
local radio and TV stations and a sug-
gested proclamation for mayors are
provided. Arrangements are made in
cooperation with state recreation soci-
eties to obtain statewide proclama-
tions from state governors.

Honors. PIE administers another
special service to NRA Aniliates: the
citations program honoring laymen
who have given outstanding service
to the cause of better recreation. The
more than three hundred citations
awarded annually provide an oppor-
tunity for NRA Affiliates to strength-
en relations with community leaders

and highlight the importance of rec-
reation.

Help With Local Bond Issues. The
department helps local and state
groups interpret the need for legisla-
tion or special bond issues for Open
space or recreation facilities. Special
material, brochures, kits, and other
publicity which can be adapted to ed-
ucational campaigns are provided.

Work With Councils of Social
Agencies and Other Related
Groups. PIE initiates and helps car-
ry through programs for other nation-
al groups to interpret the need for
adequate recreation facilities and wise
planning of free time. In communi-
ties where NRA is a member of the
United Fund or Community Chest,
kits of information, not only about
NRA but also stressing the importance
of all phases of recreation, are pro-
vided each year to support the local
fund-raising campaign—contributions
which enable local agencies and coun-
cils of social agencies to continue their
vital services.

PIE also works actively to develop
relationships with other national
groups, such as the National Council
of Churches, the National Jewish
Welfare Board, the National Catholic
Welfare Conference, the National
Federation of Settlements and Ameri-
can Association of Retired Persons,
providing them with information about
the numerous services available to
them through the Association.

Newsletters. PIE prepares ten
monthly issues of two different News-
letters, one to NRA Affiliates (agen-
cies) and one to NRA Associates (in-
dividuals.) Releases on appointments
or changes of recreation personnel
with national significance are regular-

ly sent to specialized publications and
the general press.

.Frl  it:

FRE FEE

FR
M

l 1-

~

mst .-

a---
D
I

To .

EE

'3‘

.3 isn'n'ni :

     

 

ILL
AND

HANDICAPPE D

 

.m‘r

THE NRA Consulting Service on
Recreation for the 111 and Handi-
capped is dedicated to assisting the ill,
the handicapped, and the aged,
whether institutionalized or in the
community, to achieve their maximum
potential for socialization.

The basic services of the Consult-
ing Service include personal consulta-
tion, correspondence, development of
books and literature on recreation for
all disabilities, training workshops, lec-
tures and research. The department
answers over two hundred inquiries
every month. These include requests
for literature, problem solving, pro-
gram planning, activity ideas, and re-
search data.

One of the basic tasks of the depart-
ment has been to deve10p a continuous
up-to-date flow of diversified materials
and literature kits covering all disabili-
ties and all age levels. The Consulting
Service also prepares the “Rx for the
111 and Handicapped” column appear-
ing regularly in RECREATION Maga-
zine. This carries news of interesting
developments on programs, research,
and personnel concerned with recrea-
tion for the ill and handicapped.

The Consulting Service participates
in national and regional conferences,
provides speakers and offers work-
shops, demonstrations, and training
programs. It works with health agen-
cies through the National Interhealth
Agency Committee on Recreation

which it organized. This committee,

representing nine national health agen--

cies and the National Recreation As-
sociation, works on common interests
and problems. Two new manuals
have resulted as part of the work of
this committee. The Consulting Serv-
ice prepared A Program of Recreation

for the H omebound Person with Cere-
bral Palsy and Modified Sports and

Games for the Retarded. The first
printing of the cerebral palsy pamphlet

has already been distributed by United
Cerebral Palsy, Inc.

Work with the aging, especially the
institutionalized, is an important phase
of this department’s work. Specialized
literature, workshops, and training
programs on recreation are provided
for our senior citizens.

Research. The Consulting Service
conducts surveys for hospitals, schools,
health agencies, camps and communi-
ties, churches, with recommendations
on personnel, program, equipment,
and facilities. The Service developed
a project for the Arthritis and Rheu-
matism Foundation, and a federal
Public Health Service study, “A Com-
munity Recreation Referral Project,”
is now under way in Philadelphia.

Another ongoing project is “A Rec-
reation Service for the Homebound”
now being carried on in Chicago with
the participation of multiple-sclerosis,
arthritis, and rheumatism agencies of
Chicago, the Chicago Park District,
and the Chicago Welfare Council. The
project has trained and equipped vol-
unteers visiting the homebound week-
ly. Plans include bringing many of
these people out into an activity center
for social recreation outside of their
homes.

The director of the Consulting Serv-
ice works closely with national organi-
zations for the handicapped on pro-
grams, surveys, and publications. He
has helped develop a series of manuals
on recreation for the retarded for the
National Recreation Committee of the
National Association for Retarded
Children. He is also NRA representa-
tive on the Arthritis Committee of the
International Society for the Rehabili-
tation of the Disabled.

 

 

 

SPECIAL SERVICES

 

The Recreation Book Center. More
than seven hundred publications on
leadership, arts and crafts, physical
fitness, hobbies, public relations, and
all other phases of recreation admin-
istration and service are available for
inspection and purchase in the Rec-
reation Book Center located in NRA
headquarters. Professional or volun-
teer recreation and park workers, and
all others interested in recreation in
any setting will find, in this carefully
screened collection, basic and supple-
mentary books for any type of recrea—
tion library. The Recreation Book
Center offers recreation leaders the
opportunity to select, from the lists
of ninety—eight commercial publish-
ers, the resource material they need.
The center’s list is revised annually
and new publications added.

More than ninety percent of the
twenty—two thousand volumes sold an-
nually are ordered by mail. For the
benefit of those who cannot visit NRA
headquarters to make their selections
in person, the Association publishes
AGBOR (A Guide to Books on Rec-
reation), a thirty-two page annotated
list of the center’s books. A new edi-
tion of this catalogue is sent to all
NRA Service Associates, Affiliates,
and subscribers to RECREATION Mag—
azine each September.

Throughout the year, flyers listing
all the publications in special-interest
categories are sent to individuals and
groups and are widely used at confer—
ences. All the books available through
the center are on display at the Na-
tional Recreation Congress. Many
Congress delegates have expressed
the feeling that this is one of the most
valuable features of the Congress.

Special Publications. In subject
areas not covered adequately through
other sources, members of NRA’s
own staff have been called upon to
provide the needed material. These
books usually are published for the
Association by commercial houses, as
in the case of The Camp Program

Book and The. Day Camp Program
Book. Smaller manuals, such as
Standards for Municipal Recreation
Areas, The Conduct of Playgrounds,
and Outdoor Skating Rinks with Not-
ural Ice, are produced on NRA’s own
press and distributed through the Book
Center.

The Special Publications Service
also is reSponsible, annually, for the
editing and production of Selected
Papers Presented at the National Rec-
reation Congress and the papers pre-
sented at the annual National Insti—
tute in Recreation Administration.
The Playground Summer Notebook,
eagerly awaited each spring by play—
ground leaders all over the country,
is published by the Association
through its Publications Service.

The annual NRA Directory of Ad-
visory Groups, Service Affiliates, Serv-
ice Associates, and Professional So-
cieties and Associations is sent each
spring to all those listed in its pages.
The directory is the most nearly com-
plete “Who‘s Where” available for
the recreation field.

Through Service Association or
Afiiliation with NRA, individuals and
groups can serve the cause of recrea-
tion and, in turn, receive the services
of the oldest and largest lay-profes-
sional recreation organization in the
world.

Recreation Exhibits. Manufactur—
ers of all types of recreation supplies
and equipment exhibit their products
annually at the National Recreation
Congress and the eight NRA District
Conferences. The Opportunity to ex-
amine a wide variety of manufactured
items, attractively diSplayed in one
place, is another special service of the
National Recreation Association. NRA
also creates and provides displays and
exhibits for meetings and conferences
of other groups—local, state, and na—
tional—interpreting the values of rec-
reation and the services of the Asso-
ciation.

 

RESEARCH AND LIBRARY

 

GATHERING and disseminating in-
formation on all phases of recrea-
tion was one of the most important
services undertaken by the Playground
Association of America (as NRA then
was known) immediately after its or-
ganization in 1906. Its operation as
clearing house continues in impor-
tance to this day. It is basic to NRA
services and enables the Association
to act as a research and publication
center.

The Association’s Recreation and
Park Yearbook, published at five-year
intervals, is a unique record of the
growth of recreation leadership, ex-
penditures, and services in the United
States. Government and other agen-
cies, as well as individuals, turn to the
Association as the only source of such
facts and figures as these:

PLAYGROU N 08 AN D

RECREATION CENTERS

4,293

10.385

15,657
24,367
37,077

*Includes expenditures for parks

Largest
recreation library
in the world.

 

Information gathered through sur-
veys and by other means has aided the
recreation field to gauge its progress
and establish standards. Four of the
Association’s publications, Introduc-
tion to Community Recreation, Play-
grounds: Their Administration and
Operation, Recreation Areas— Their
Design and Equipment, and Commu-
nity Sports and Athletics, have become
standard texts in recreation courses.

An important part of the Associa-
tion research is its recreation library.
Here some five thousand bound vol-
umes, two hundred periodicals and
forty-four vertical files provide NRA
Service Associates and students with
an incomparable collection of current
and historical material on all phases of
recreation.

EXPENDITURES
$ 7,199,430
38,518,195
57,538,111
268,911,957‘I
567,171,765'

LEADERS
10.218
24,949
38,926
58,029
99,696

Recognizing the need for increasing
basic knowledge in the whole field of
recreation, and for developing evalua-
tive scales and techniques, the Associ-
ation now is establishing a National
Institute for Recreation Research.
This will review and analyze existing
research material, determine the areas
of greatest need, initiate and carry out
research projects in these areas, coop-
erate with universities and other agen-
cies in the conduct of research, and
disseminate information.

The work of the Institute will pro-
vide the recreation movement with the
instrument of accountability which it
has lacked and will enable the profes-
sional to demonstrate the actual rela-
tionship between service and results.
The Institute will be an appropriate re-
cipient of grants from government
agencies and private foundations. The
National Recreation Association an-
ticipates that the National Institute for
Recreation Research will prove to be
one of its most important contribu-
tions to recreation, in this country and
around the world.

 

 

RECREATION [ELEWEATION

A MONTHLY SERVICE ~69“

 

PUBLISHED by the National Recrea-
tion Association since 1907, REC-
REATION Magazine has for many years
been accepted as a standard resource
on current recreation and parks affairs,
trends, problems. It is used by boards
and commissions, local superintend-
ents, directors and other professional
leaders, and by citizen leaders and
groups — in interpreting recreation
aims and values to the public, in
speeches, in planning local areas and
facilities, and in providing recreation
and park services. It acts as a help in
fund raising, bond-issue promotion,
recruiting, orientation and training of
staff and volunteers. It is a text or ref-
erence for recreation majors in col-
leges and universities. A bound vol-
ume of one year’s issue forms an up-
to—the-minute recreation textbook,
rounds out the professional’s library.

Distribution. The total distribution

of the magazine, as of December 31,
1963 (ABC Report), is 13,400, of
which 10,885 are paid subscriptions.

 

District Artlcles
New England 5 10
Middle Atlantic 15 10
Southern l3 6
Great Lakes 15 16
Midwest —
South West

Short Items

       

 

    

 

 

Pacific Northwest 10

1:3me

Pacific Southwest

 

Editorial Coverage by NRA Districts

Mention

Its circulation covers every state in the
union and its possessions, varying per
state from New York’s 1,051 paid sub-
scriptions to Nevada’s fourteen paid
subscriptions. Canadian subscriptions
total 328, while 247 go to foreign
countries, 187 to military or civilian
personnel overseas. Additional, un-
counted, unlisted circulation where
one c0py receives group use covers
individuals in college classes and on
large recreation department staffs. The
ABC audit covers 1,090 libraries
where one c0py is used by many.

Content. The magazine’s total num-
ber of pages in 1963 was 494. Its nve
sections—General Features, Adminis-
tration, Program, Recreation Digest,
Regular Departments—covered forty-
five broad categories of subject matter,
while eighty pages were given to ad-
vertising.

Advertising. RECREATION is a basic
medium for advertisers who want to
develop or promote equipment and

  

Total
3 18
32
24
38
17
14
21
31

Sectlon

    

General Features

        

    

Administration

     

Program

     
 

Recreation Digest

  
   
 

 

menu-bums:

Total Text

   

 

Regular Departments

 

 

     

services for the recreation market and,
increasingly, as recreation and park
departments merge and the magazine’s
park content grows accordingly, it is
becoming the same for the park mar-
ket. In 1963, 92 advertisers expanded
the advertising pages to a total of 80
as against 26 advertisers and 29 pages

in 1943, and 59 advertisers and 46
pages in 1953.

The National Advisory Committee
on the Publishing of Recreation
Materials. This NRA committee,
founded in 1958, serves a twofold pur-
pose: advisory to the NRA and ad-
visory to the field in raising the stand-
ard of recreation publications. The
editor of RECREATION serves as the
committee’s secretary and liaison per-
son with the Association. This year,
the committee is being expanded into
the National Advisory Committee on
Communications, with subcommittees
on a variety of media and techniques
of communication.

1963 Text Allocation (Ten Issues)

No. of Pages No. of Articles Short Items

135 73

61 29

NEW CONCEPT in family vaca-
A tions has gained p0pularity in

Southern California at the Uni-
versity of Southern California’s 250-
acre Idyllwild Campus in Riverside
County in the beautiful San Jacinto
mountains. More and more families are
discovering the attractions of this
mountain school which offers programs
in music and the arts for all ages. Most
of the adult workshops offer two units
of upper division credit as well.

In a magnificent setting of fragrant
pine trees, surrounded by the majestic
peaks of Mt. San Jacin'to, Mt. Marion,
and Mt. Tahquitz, the ldyllwild campus
commands a spectacular View. It is 120
miles from Los Angeles and fifty miles
from Palm Springs.

The University of Southern Califor-
nia operates the entire summer and
winter program in affiliation with the
Idyllwild Arts Foundation, the non-
profit corporation in which the title to
the property, now worth close to a mil-
lion dollars, is vested. Dr. Max T.
Krone, co-founder and president of the
foundation, is the director of the uni-
versity’s program at Idyllwild.

According to Dr. Krone, “The foun-
dation is dedicated to the cultivation of
the arts by people of all ages in a beauti-
ful, inspiring, outdoor setting, to the
conservation of the natural resources
which are our heritage, and to foster
and develop the aesthetic, emotional,
mental, and physical health of those
who attend the classes and programs on
the campus.”

Because there is such a variety of
workshops offered each summer from
June to September, it is not diflicut for
any member of a family to select an
area of interest. From the nursery-
school group beginning at age three to
the adult groups, the days for everyone
are filled with creative activities.

The Children’s Center is completely

JUNE, 1964

Vacation cultural center offers programs
for all ages in a setting of scenic beauty

FAMILY CAMPUS
on the MOUNTAINTOP

separate from the rest of the campus
and there are facilities and materials
to meet the needs and sizes of each age
group. From ages three to twelve, an
orientation-in-the-arts program is pro-
vided. Qualified and dedicated class-
room teachers and counselors work with
the children to give them eXperiences
in music, art, dance, and nature study.

For the junior-high age group, there
is a choice of four special programs.
For two weeks at the very beginning of
the summer, the entire facilities are
given over to a junior-high music pro-
gram. During this period, a few hun-
dred youngsters participate in a sym-
phony orchestra, concert band, and
choir, presenting nightly programs and
concerts and at least two major con-
certs on Sunday afternoons.

ONE OF THE most popular junior-
high programs is the ISOMATA
Junior Players which now has a wait-
ing list each year by the time the first
session begins. This is a resident chil-
dren’s theater whose program includes
music, dance, and art as well as drama.
The Junior Players have a six-week sea-
son and usually give two major produc-
tions as well as several smaller ones.
Boys and girls, aged thirteen to fifteen,
are accepted for three or six weeks
either as boarding or day students. They
have their own outdoor theater which
has developed during the past eight
years into a well-equipped stage with
lighting and sound system as well as
a building to house dressing rooms, and
storerooms for the growing inventory
of costumes and other equipment. Bur-
dette Fitzgerald of the UCLA Theater
Arts Department has been director of
the Junior Players since its inception.
Another popular program for this
age group is the ISOMATA Puppeteers
under the direction of Harry Burnett of
the famous Yale Puppeteers. Here the

students learn to make marionettes,
write and produce their own shows each
week. It provides a happy combination
of crafts and drama. A new group mak-
ing its bow in the 1964 season is the
M-A-D Hatters, which provides a pro-
gram for youngsters of thirteen to fif-
teen who wish to enjoy experiences in

 

Members of ldyllwild Folk Dance Workshop take
a fling at intricacies of the Philippine tinikling.

music, art, and dance with special em-
phasis on one of the three.

Two language programs which have
been successful during the past two
summers will be continued. The Spanish
House and French House for thirteen-
to fifteen year-olds are both four-week
sessions on boarding-school basis.

ACROSS THE ROAD at the adult cam-
pus, secure in the knowledge that
their children are happily learning and
playing, parents may pursue any one
of a dozen workshops under the direc-
tion of teachers and artists from col-
leges and universities all over the coun-
try. For those interested in music, there

are the Folk Music Workshop, the In-
tegrated Folk Arts Workshop, the Mean-
ing and Enjoyment of Music, Elemen-
tary School Music Workshop, Recorder

Continued on Page 310

299

action for aging

Volunteers + Leadership Training : Active Senior Citizens Club 1

Mrs. Carter Clapton

NTHUSIASM AND INTEREST are important elements in
E any program. This is especially true in senior activity
clubs. Our country’s rapidly expanding numbers of
retired persons are looking for fulfilling leisure-time activi-
ties to make possible a satisfying life, rich in service, fellow-
ship and fun, with comradeship of their own age group.
This is more than recreation in the usual sense; it is “crea-
tion,” sparked by the senior citizen’s desire to do something
stimulating and worthwhile, with tangible returns, for which
he can be recognized. Meaningful activity is the keystone of
a happy life at any age, regardless of individual circum-
stances or capacities.

This phi1050phy set the tone of a most successful work-
shop, called “Training for Leadership in Senior Citizens
Clubs,” held in Austin, Texas. Such volunteer leadership
training is a must since senior citizens clubs are literally
“popping out all over.” Each month, in Texas alone, many
clubs are organized, according to the information received
in the oflice of the Governor’s Committee on Aging. These
centers have come into being because, increasingly, com-
munities are recognizing the need for them and are mobiliz-
ing to meet that need. These clubs and social centers are de-
—ve10ping more rapidly than the cooperating agencies can
expand their budgets for professional staff. The solution in
Austin has been to use professional assistance in coordi-
nating these groups and in recruiting and training volunteer
leadership to organize, administer, and promote for each
center. These volunteers may be from the Sponsoring or-
ganization or from the club membership itself.

There are twelve senior citizen clubs scattered through-
out Austin to serve varying geographic areas. Ten of these
are sponsored by churches. Each club meets once a week
for three or four hours. Four of the clubs have paid per-
sonnel who serve as directors with added leadership from
the members. The remainder use volunteer leadership ex-
clusively. The Austin Parks and Recreation Department
provides a general supervisor (part-time) and a coordi-
nator for senior activities who assists these clubs with pro-
fessional guidance. This assistance involves coordinating,
programing, problem solving, and recruiting and training
of volunteers.

To be most efiective, training should start with and be
a part of recruiting. This is espesially true when the re-
cruiting is done on a community-wide basis for many areas

MRS. CLOPTON is coordinator of aging services in the Texas
State Executive Department, Austin.

300

of service. A community training project called “Action for
Aging,” held recently in Austin, included an orientation
session on all aspects of aging, and, two weeks later, a
workshOp devoted to action in specific areas. This project,
initiated by the Council of Catholic Women and coordi-
nated by the Adult Services Council Committee on Aging
of the Community Council, involved people of all denomi-
nations and concentrated on live fields in addition to recrea-
tion. It actively involved well over a hundred men and
women as future volunteers and was so successful that other
cities in Texas are planning like programs. (Complete pro-
ceedings of “Action for Aging” are available from Coordi-
nator of Aging Services, P.0. Box 1212')", Capitol Station,

Austin, Texas).

WHILE TRAINING is a continuous process, formal training
courses for volunteer leaders should be set up peri-
odically to indoctrinate volunteers new to the program. It
will also serve to stimulate the established volunteer leaders
through the exchange of new program ideas and materials.

Austin’s “Training for Leadership in Senior Citizens
Clubs,” a follow-up of recruiting and indoctrination, was
planned by the staff of the Austin Recreation Department
and the executive director of the Adult Services Council. It
was held for three mornings from nine to noon. Each ses-
sion was a balance between theory and “doing,” and based
on the rule set up for all senior activities. After all, “The
mind can absorb only as much as the seat can endure.”
Participants for this workshop included the present volun-
teer leadership from the clubs, new volunteers from the
churches and other sponsoring groups, officers (members)
of the clubs, and recruits from the Volunteer Bureau.
Speakers and discussion leaders were invited from com-
munity agencies which serve the aging, such as Governor’s
Committee on Aging; Education, Rehabilitation and Ser-
vice Team for Nursing Homes of the City Health Depart-
ment; staff of the Hogg Foundation for Mental Health and
the Adult Services Council.

The following outlines the broad subject areas covered I
in these training sessions:

Philosophy of Leadership for Senior Social
Clubs:

' “Caring about” the senior, not “caring for.”
o Purposes and goals of center.

0 Ten basic concepts of aging.

0 Personal qualities needed.

RECREATION

 

0 Satisfactions to be gained by this work.
0 Role of leader (director) of club.
° Criteria for self-evaluation.

Organization and Administration of a Social

Club :

o Sponsorship and its role.

0 Kinds of assistance given by recreation department to
centers.

0 Simple rules for operation of club.

0 Development of self-government.

0 Financing.

0 Registration and membership.

0 Publicity and public relations.

0 Transportation—the problem and possible solutions.

Programing:

0 Role of leader and membership in setting the over-all
program.

0 Kinds of assistance and program aids provided by pro-
fessional recreation staff.

0 Planning specific program areas to be developed: educa-
tional activities, movies, et cetera, tours, community service
projects, crafts, and entertainment (table games, parties,
dancing, refreshment).

0 Teaching actual skills: new party games and mixers;
invitation, decor, and favor ideas; games, leadership hints;
craft projects demonstrated and work session.

0 Resources for additional assistance. This includes com-

- munity organizations from youth organizations to govern-
ment agencies.

 

Senior citizens in Austin, Texas, sign up with locol Adult Services Council
during community-wide recruitment ond troining program for volunteers.

Specific Volunteer Jobs Outlined And
Assigned:

0 Qualifications needed for each job: director, program-
skills activity leaders, registrar, public relations, hostesses,
and transportation.

This training has proved effective since the established
volunteers went back to their centers with renewed

enthusiasm and the new volunteers approached their tasks

with confidence. #

 

* FUN in the SUN

HEN Willis Peterson of Arizona
Days and Ways Magazine sur-
veyed senior-citizen activities in the
Phoenix area, he naturally wrote of
“The Fun of Retirement.” Some of his
remarks, prepared with the help of
Dottie Miles of the Phoenix Parks and
Recreation Department, follow:
Many of the Phoenix senior citizens
. are transplanted. Leaving families and
friends “back home,” they come to
enjoy the climate and bask in Arizona
sunshine. As a consequence, Phoenix is
one of the fastest growing retirement
centers in the nation. These communi-
ties are spread from Apache Junction
to Wickenburg. Cooperative apartments
are mushrooming for those over sixty-
five whose interest does not lie in con-
tinued home ownership.
But getting acquainted with others
of similar outlook and desire sometimes
is a problem. Whether the newcomers

JUNE, 1964

thrive in their new community depends
largely upon how they spend their time,
and one of the best ways to make new
friends is to join a senior-citizens’ club.

At last count in Phoenix, more than
twenty senior-citizens clubs have been
formed and established. For example,
three years ago, a handful of people
met for potluck at Maryvale Park. To-
day, there are more than two hundred
members, with two clubs now meeting
at Maryvale to accommodate member-
ship.

Though not actually a club, one of
the first experiments in the valley con-
cerning adult recreation was the refur-
bishing of the old city library into the
present adult center. Now it is fre-
quented by hundreds of regular visitors.
It houses a number of crafts, reading
facilities, card tables, and a hardwood
floor which can be cleared for dances.
For the politically minded, shade trees

in the surrounding park offer philosoa
phic quiet under which to solve prob-
lems of the world.

The bicycle has come into its own at
one retirement community. At eight
every morning, twenty or more seniors
mount and ride for an hour or so. Many
of the bicycles are tandems. One spry
bicycler in the group is approaching
ninety years of age.

Encanto Park offers shuffleboard,
horseshoes, and other physical activity
to keep both mind and body active, with
variety aplenty for those who look
farther than their own doorstep.

The impact of the senior citizen in
the economy of the Valley has been felt.
Figures show there are already more
than sixteen million persons in the over-
65 age group in the nation. This figure
will increase during the next decade.
The Valley of the Sun will have more
than its share of this increase.

301.

 

Games can be a rollicking part of music activities

Edna R. Schweitzer

USIC IS A FUNDAMENTAL in a well-
M rounded hospital recreation pro-

gram; yet, many leaders as
well as potential participants feel music
is not for them because they are not
“musically inclined.” Actually, music
can be as much fun and give as much
pleasure to a person or group not musi-
cally oriented as to the person trained
in music, and music activities can be
conducted by anyone who is interested
in developing such activities.

All of us listen to music whether we
wish to or not, for we are met at every
turn by tunes from radios, record play-
ers, public-address systems, or TV.
While We may not always appreciate
having such music tossed at us, almost
everyone has his favorite type and
would feel a great loss if he were de-
prived of music entirely. The patient
who is nonambulatory usually finds that
he spends a great deal of time listening
to music from a radio, a hospital pillow
speaker, or TV. A record player brought
to a bed patient often brings hours of
pleasure as the patient selects his fav-
orite records or plays those selected by
his wardmates. It is an unusual recre-
ation hall which does not have a record
player or a radio playing to accompany
the variety of games in progress. Many
times a transistor radio in the pocket of
some patient adds to the musical back-
ground. For the more serious-minded
listener, hi-fi and stereo rooms for pure
listening pleasure bring hours of re-
laxation even though the listener is not
a musician.

w._‘

MISS SCIIWEITZER is a hospital recrea-
tion leader [or the American Red Cross,
Midwestern Area.

302

The idea of participating in produc-
ing music often frightens the person
with no musical training or experience.
Yet, there are many fundamental skills
he may acquire quickly and obtain much
pleasure in the doing. Learning a few
basic chords on a ukelele or guitar to
accompany his own or any other’s sing-
ing brings a glow of achievement to
even the most non-musical person. Play-
ing a rhythm instrument, from bongo
drums to notched sticks, brings the sat-
isfaction of being a part of a combo
and can be done easily by even the tone-
deaf person. The more ambitious, long-
er-term patients often welcome the op-
portunity to learn more complicated
instruments if the lessons are available.
Many a happy hour has been spent
around a “learning” guitar player.

NEARLY EVERYONE can “carry a
tune,” but many contend that they
cannot sing. When they find, through
participating in a group sing, that
they can sing along, they are de-
lighted and find much fun in joining
the gang. To a group of patients who
have never been a part of community
singing, the idea is frightening, but once
they have the songsheets in their hands
and get started, they find it is fun and
lose themselves in singing. A patient
recently included in such a group com-
mented to the leader as the sheet was
put into his hands, “Do we have to sing
all of these songs?” Then about thirty
minutes later as the evening drew to a
close he said, “Don’t stop now. We
haven’t sung them all yet!”

A third type of music fun, other than
listening and performing. consists of

many types of musical games. Whole
evenings of fun can be themed around
music. If the leader or a volunteer can
play the piano, so much the better, but
records can be used or even whistling
or singing can be substituted. Follow-P
ing in outline form are some activities
for musical evenings. Choose several
varied activities, as time allows, for a
real fun-time. Then finish off with a
group sing using songsheets with well-
known, old standby songs. Singing ties
the group together and the patients
leave the party with a feeling of warmth
and good fellowship. Many of the fol-
lowing games and quizzes can be in-
corporated into any theme party (Wea-
ther, girls, transportation, birthdays,
states, et cetera) , adding zip to the ac-
tivities.
GAMES

1. Identifying illustrated songs (In-
tercom, April 1956) . Participants can
draw songs after titles have been pre-
sented to each and others guess them or
the picture can be prepared prior to the
party. This can be done as a team, with
partners, or individually, giving extra
credit if someone can sing enough of
the song so it can be recognized. (A
good lead into group singing.)

2. A musical story with song titles as
part of the story being omitted and
filled in as the song is played or
hummed. (See Recreation Is Fun and
Fun Encyclopedia, or devise original
story.)

3. Categories: girls, states,
commands, transportation, et ectera.
(Recreation Is Fun).

4-. Musical Package (Intercom, April
1956).

men,

RECREATION

5. Musical Chairs.

6. Musical Scavenger Hunt (Inter-
com, April 1956).

7. Musical Baseball. Bases are set
up, two teams formed. Songs with
values of singles, doubles, home runs,
et cetera are played. If recognized by
batter, players advance as in baseball.
Extra bases can be given for singing
part of song.

8. Musical Bingo. Special cards can
be made prior to playing or each pa-
tient may make own in blanks provided
and as titles are called off by worker.
As song is played or sung, title is cov-
ered until bingo is called.

9. Stop the Music.

QUIZZES
1. A Pretty Girl Is Like a Melody.

Lines from songs including a girl’s
name are given. Omit the girl’s name
and use orally or written as: (a) Every
little breeze seems to whisper Louise.
(b) Jeannie with the light brown hair.

2. Choose Your Number. Questions
pertaining to well-known songs are
given such as: (a) What did I hold on
my knee when I went to Alabama
(banjo). (b) You may search every-
where but none can compare with what
( M y Wild Irish Rose).

3. Song Titles. Have participants
list songs including certain subject
such as: (a) Name two songs about
Mary. (b) Name three songs that sug-
gest early morning.

4. It’s Always Fair Weather (Coro-
net, December 1945). Lines from songs
including words which describe some
kind of weather are given, omitting the
key words: (a) It Ain’t Gonna Rain
No More. (b) Stormy Weather.

5. Musical Terms ( F an Encyclope-
dia).

6. Scrambled Instruments
corn, April 1956).

7. HAPPY BIRTHDAY, MERRY
CHRISTMAS, et cetera. Give song

title beginning with each letter of word,

( I nter-

F1
@EBW

or as played or sung.

8. Empty-Handed Musician. Sketch
cartoon or other figures of musicians
omitting the instrument he is playing.
Have participants either sketch or sup-
ply name of instrument.

9. Second lines of well-known songs.

10. As found in Recreation 13 Fun:

Dance Rhythms Music Quiz
Musical Drama You vs. Pianist

Musical Sports Who’s Singing
Musical Tales Sing a Word

BIBLIOGRAPHY

1. Coronet

1945.

2. F un Encyclopedia, E. O. Harbin,
Abingdon, Cokesbury Press, Nashville.

3. Intercom, a publication of the
American National Red Cross, Wash-
ing, D. C.

4. Recreation I s F an, A handbook of
Hospital Recreation and Entertainment,

Esther Hawley. American Theatre
Wing, Inc., 730 Fifth Avenue, New
York.

Magazine, December,

 

SCIENCE through RECREATION

eagerness as he makes a friend,

climbs a tree, or shapes a mud-
pie. Science—seeking the “why” of
things—can initiate many activities.
However, except for the so-called “nat-
ural sciences” dealing with plants and
animals, science has not been widely

included in recreation programs in this
country.

3- CHILD asks “Why?” with as much

Recreation programs offer a natural
Opportunity to introduce American chil-
dren and youth to the concepts and ac-
tivities of science. The professional rec-
reation leader, however, usually lacks
training in science and confidence in
dealing with it.

The National Recreation Association
has prepared a science guidebook for
professional and volunteer recreation
leaders, written from their point of view
to meet their specific needs. The book
is for leaders and for children—no pre-
vious experience in science is necessary.

JUNE, 1964

Its games are fun to play; the questions
they raise will be fun to pursue. The

manual was written and illustrated by
Warren Goodrich, with Carleen Maley
Hutchins as science consultant. A 108-
page paperback, Science Through Rec-
reation is available for $1.00 from the
Association ( see order blank, Page
315

The NRA Advisory Committee for
the Special Project on Recreation and
Science reviewed both manuscript and
illustrations. Members of the advisory
committee are: Chairman, Dr. Augus-
tus B. Kinzel, vice-president, Union

Carbide Corporation and NRA Board
member; Robert W. Crawford, com-
missioner of recreation, Philadelphia,
and NRA Board member; George
Hjelte, consultant, Los Angeles Depart-
ment of Recreation and Parks and NRA
Board member; Dr. William C. Men-

ninger, Menninger Foundation, Topeka,

and NRA Board member; Gerard Piel,

publisher of the Scientific American;
Dr. Frederick Seitz, head, Department
of Physics, University of Illinois,
and president, National Academy of
Sciences; and Dr. Dael Wolfle, execu-
tive oliicer, American Association for
the Advancement of Science. The fol-
lowing also gave suggestions and tested
material: Ruth Amen, director, Pro-
gram Department, Camp Fire Girls;
Gladys Brown, consultant in health,
physical education recreation,
Community Division, National Board
YWCA; William Lederer, superintend-
ent of recreation, Greenburgh, New
York; John Ledlie, national secretary

and

for youth program and camping, Na-
tional Board, YMCA; Alex Mileski, as-
sistant program director, Boys Clubs of
America; Virginia Musselman, direc-
tor, NRA Program Services; Mrs. Alice
Rivoire, assistant director, 'Program
Department, Girl Scouts'of the U.S.A.;
Marlin Sieg, assistant director of cub
scouting, Boy Scouts of America; and

William Taylor, Resdel Corporation,
Wildwood, New Jersey.

303

EXPLORING A NEED . . .

A survey of recreation in

r‘

institutions for the mentally retarded

Arnold D. Cortazzo and Allen R. Menefee

often has been overlooked—both in the community
and in the institution—although recreation long has
Nevertheless, recrea-

THE VALUE of recreation for the mentally retarded too

been known as a basic human need.
tion is considered one of the essential elements in the insti-
tution’s commitment to help the mentally retarded attain
their fullest self-realization. Diversified recreation activity
provided to the retarded during their formative years exerts
beneficial effects on the trend of growth in areas of social
competence, muscular coordination, and motivation. It also
is known that if retardates spent less time sitting without
purpose and had a wider variety of play experience during
childhood and adolescence, they would attain a higher de-
gree of intellectual development. They would be more apt
to succeed in vocational training and contribute to their
own support, and become more useful citizens.

Conversely, if training programs do not afford retardates
wholesome recreation and train their capacity for seeking
and enjoying it, there is a strong possibility that the sup-
pressed instincts and the needs of these people will find all
sorts of unhealthy outlets, some overtly in aggression and
hostility, and some invertly in over-indulgence in imagina-
tion and fantasy. The training program for the retarded
has no responsibility more serious than to insure adequate
provision for recreation and the enjoyment of leisure
through it; not only for the sake of the retardates’ immedi-
ate health but still more for the sake of its lasting effects
upon their minds.

The National Recreation Association concluded from a
study of organized recreation programs in three thousand
hospitals and institutions in the United States that recrea-
tion plays an important role in the total care of patients
and residents. The study also revealed that there was great
variation among these programs.

The National Association for Retarded Children has been
emphasizing the importance of recreation in the total pro-
graming for the retarded, particularly for those in an in-
When carefully planned and implemented, the
recreation program can he an important factor in helping
the retarded and their families accept institutional living.
Recreation does help the retarded adjust socially and psy-
chologically to the institution.

stitution.

 

‘_.-i_.

 

‘—

MH. COR'I‘AZZO is consmtont on vocational rehabilitation,
adult services, and recreation [or the National Association
[or Retarded Children, New York City. MR. MEN’EFEE is
consultant on residential care [or the NARC.

30-!-

F or long-term residents, recreation helps prevent further
physical, social, and mental deterioration. The more pro-
gressive institutions have provided recreation activities since
their inception, while less progressive institutions have of-
fered little except that initiated by a few dedicated ward
attendants.

Since there is a dearth of information in this area in liter-
ature, the National Association for Retarded Children re-
cently conducted a survey of recreation programs in 111
institutions for the mentally retarded in the U. S. Ninety-
eight of these institutions responded to the questionnaire.
A summary of the results follows:

PROGRAM

All of the ninety-eight institutions which responded to
the survey, with one exception, do provide some kind of a
recreation program for the retarded. Most of these institu-
tions provide recreation for residents in the four classifica-
tions of retardation. Ninety-three institutions have pro-
grams for the mildly and moderately mentally retarded,
while ninety-one institutions indicated they have programs
for the severely and profoundly retarded. In addition,
eighty-nine institutions provide recreation to retarded resi-

dents who are also physically handicapped.
PROGRAM ACTIVITIES

Recreation programs conducted in these institutions in-
cluded a wide range of recreation activities. Group sports
and group activities are featured in most institutions. Bus
rides and social activity, such as entertainments and dances,
appear to be part of most of the recreation programs. In-
dividual sports and the more difiicult hobbies, stamp col-
lecting and constructing model airplanes, generally are more
available in the smaller institutions which have a smaller
resident ratio to staff than the larger institutions.

CAMPING

Forty-eight of the institutions state that they have a camp-
ing program, fourteen of these institutions have both day
and resident camps. The number of campers range from a

low of fifteen to a high of fifteen hundred.
SCOUTING

Seventy-six institutions report that they have a Scout
program while twenty-two report none. Further question-
ing in this area revealed that sixty-six institutions have Boy
Scout programs accommodating 1,493 boys; twenty-four

RECREATION

have Cub Scout programs for 309 boys; forty-nine have
Girl Scout programs for 724 girls; and twenty-four, Brownie
programs for 153 girls.

PERSONNEL

Although ninety of the ninety-seven institutions report
they have a director or supervisor of recreation in charge of
the recreation program, only sixty-eight of these are on a full-
time basis. The number of employes in these programs ranges
from one to twenty-three. A further breakdown indicates
that nineteen institutions have two recreation employes;
ten institutions have one recreation employe; eleven have
three; nine have four; ten have five; seven have five and
six; and six have eight employes.

VOLUNTEERS

Seventy-four of the institutions state that volunteers are
used in their recreation programs, while twenty-four of the
institutions do not use volunteers. Fifty-eight of the seventy-
four institutions indicate that they use high-school and col-
lege students as volunteers. The areas where volunteers are
used in the recreation program include parties, dances, off-
ground activities, ward recreation, trips, picnics, camping
and scouting, Christmas shopping, and walks.

FACILITIES

Most of the institutions provide the facilities generally
found in community recreation: playgrounds (93), audi-

PROGRAM

toriums (87), athletic fields (79), canteens (75), picnic
areas (69), and gymnasiums (67). Facilities for camping
and sports, such as tennis and bowling, are available at
only a small percentage of the institutions reporting. All
but one of the ninety-two institutions that responded indi-
cate that they utilize community resources and facilities for
their recreation programs; but only twenty-eight utilize
day camps; twenty-nine, swimming and resident camps;
and twelve, picnic grounds in the community.

Most of the institutions-take advantage of special events
in the community: eighty-five institutions send residents to
the circus, eighty to sporting events, seventy-nine to parades,
fifty-nine to swimming in the community.

 

RECOMMENDATIONS

0 There is need to explore and try other kinds of recrea-
tion activity for the severely and profoundly retarded.

0 There is a need for institutions to take a careful look at
their recreation programs to determine if they are providing
a well-balanced recreation program with various recreation
activities that meet the psychological and social needs of
the residents. At the same time, these institutions should
examine their resident staff ratio to ascertain if they have
sufficient staff to achieve such a balanced program.

0 There is a need for more full time recreation personnel
and a need to reduce the resident-staff ratio.

 

Demonstration Camp Program for Retarded

Ed Wycmt

ceived important impetus in

North Carolina in 1963. A basic
factor was the stimulus given by the
Joseph P. Kennedy, Jr. Foundation via
a $2,700 grant, awarded to the city of
Greensboro Recreation and Parks De-
partment, to assist it in conducting a
North Carolina Demonstration Camp
Program for the retarded. This rela-
tively small grant did much to further
camping for the retarded throughout
the whole state. ( See also “The Ken-
nedys and Recreation, RECREATION,
January 1963.) The foundation’s re-
quirements as to camp personnel, its
data as to program and camp regime
for the retarded and related data assem-
bled by the North Carolina Recreation
Commission and the North Carolina
Association for Retarded Children were
printed in quantity. Copies of this data

CAMPS for retarded children re-

MR. WYANT is assistant director of the
North Carolina Recreation Commission

in Raleigh.

JUNE, 1964

were sent to all municipal, industrial,
hospital, church, military, and private-
agency recreation (administrative) per-
sonnel, and also to additional, selected
civic and association leaders through-
out the state. Thus, it became an alert-
ing factor as to a needed local service,
as well as “how-to-do-it” information
for those whose interest was aroused.

Upon request, the foundation allowed
a North Carolina Recreation Commis-
sion recreation specialist to attend the
foundation’s camp personnel training
workshop held at Southern Illinois Uni-
versity at Carbondale. This enabled this
specialist to give specific assistance to
North Carolina’s camping programs for
the retarded. The specialist was joined
by another commission staff member
assigned to fitness work, who added
further promotional effort, gave direct
assistance, and rendered other helps to
interested communities and agencies.
Thus, North Carolina achieved a 1963
record total of sixteen camps for the
retarded, three of these being resident
camps.

Although most of these camps were
005p0nsored by the local Associations
for Retarded Children, the associations
worked together with the municipal rec-
reation department, local youth organ-
izations, or some local civic group. The
North Carolina Association for Re-
tarded Children administered two resi-
dent camps, and the Methodist Church
had one resident camp. Recreation and
youth-agency involvement varied from
almost complete agency control and
sharing of leadership, facilities, fi-
nances, and program to simply furnish-
ing facilities and equipment for the
program.

A national survey indicates that only
one out of every fifty municipal recre-
ation departments offers any communi-
ty-sponsored recreation services for the
retarded. This is, of course, a national
average of two percent. Therefore,
North Carolina is very proud of having
moved forward in the summer of 1963
with approximately twenty percent of
its municipal recreation departments
offering services to retarded children.

"305'

ADMINISTRATION

 

 

GUIDELINES FOR PLANNING
A GOLF COURSE

Harry C. Eckhoff

DEVELOPMENT

of a success-
ful golf venture re-
quires careful and
extensive planning.
Land values, costs
of construction and
maintenance, and
the time interval from initiating con-

 

struction to course completion (usually
twelve months or more) are factors that
affect the success of any golf project.
Not only should one have a properly de-
signed layout with acceptable construc-
tion specifications but also a feasible
plan for financing and operation. Be-
fore taking any definite action, how-
ever, one should investigate the feasi-
bility of the entire project for the area
concerned.

Feasibility Study. First determine the
economic feasibility of your planned
project. Assure yourself that there will
be sufficient income at least to pay for
the construction and Operation costs. If
you are planning a daily fee-type opera—
tion, information on the following items
will be of assistance in making your
study: population within a ten-mile ra-
dius; a twenty-mile radius; population
increases over the past two decades
(nationwide, it was about thirty-six per-
cent); number Of daily fee-type golf
courses now in operation within the ten-
mile and twenty-mile radius; and fail-
ures in recent years. An acceptable
yardstick for daily fee-type courses is
one 18-hole operation for each twenty-
five thousand people.

 

COLONEL EcKuor-‘E is Eastern director
for the National Golf Foundation. This
material is taken from a paper presented
at the Cornell University Turf Confer-
ence, February 1964.

306

What are the economic characteris-

tics of the area, the principal types of
employment? What is the per-capita
income in the area? Is it increasing
along with regional or national trends?
What are the unemployment character-
istics?
Selection of Site. Survey the area for
a suitable site. Among the factors that
require careful consideration in the se-
lection of a site for the golf course are:
size and shape of the property (50 to 80
acres for a 9-hole regulation length
course; 110 to 160 fOr 18; irregularly
shaped plots often afford opportunities
for more interesting course design).
Gently rolling areas with some trees are
preferable. It may be wise to acquire
more land than is actually needed for
the course. Land adjacent to golf
courses frequently has increased value
for use for home sites.

Accessibility is important. Unless
absolutely unavoidable, a golf course
should not be off the beaten track. All
other things being equal, design the
course so one or two holes parallel the
highway—it is good advertising. Soil
factors are extremely important. The
ideal golf course is a sandy loam. The
better the stand of turf raised on fair-
ways and greens, the more satisfactory
and more popular will be the course. Be
sure to take into consideration the char-
acter of soil when choosing the site.
Soil analysis will be made for you at low
cost by state agricultural departments
or county agents. Much helpful in-
formation can be obtained from state
agricultural experiment stations and
county agents on proper turf develop-
ment, proper grass seeding, growing
and maintenance.

Electric power, an ample water sup-
ply and proper drainage conditions are

essential to the successful operation of
a golf course. These should be avail-
able for the site selected. The amount
of clearing necessary will affect con-
struction costs; likewise a stone remov-
a] program can be expensive. A golf
course should, if possible, have patches
of woodlands, as trees offer one of the
best natural hazards if properly placed.
It is costly, however, to remove large
growing trees from those portions of the
site which will be fairways in the final
plan.

The last consideration in site selec-
tion is: Does it have natural golf fea-
tures? Rolling terrain, creek valleys,
woodlands, ravines and ponds make the
job Of designing an interesting golf
course much easier. Also, is there suf-
ficient north and south yardage to elim-
inate holes facing into the sun? The
character of the property has a pro-
found influence on the quality of the re-
sulting golf course. If the golf course
architect fits his design to the terrain,
altering it as little as possible and avoid-
ing all unnecessary earth moving, econ-
omy usually will be the result. When
you feel you have a suitable site, it is
wise to call in a capable golf course ar-
chitect for an opinion as to the feasi-
bility of the proposed site for a golf
course and the estimated construction
costs.

Consult a Golf-Course Architect.
No one would consider building an ex-
pensive home without consulting a
building architect. The services of a
competent golf-course architect are
equally important for the design and
construction of acceptable golf courses.
No golf course can be properly devel-
oped to function as it should unless the
designer appreciates the complicated re-«
lationship between the course, the me-

RECREATION

chanics and strategy of the game, and
the players’ psychological reactions. In-
variably, the very modest increase in
cost of proper design and construction
will return additional profit with the
first few years of operation, in reduced
maintenance and repair costs, and in
better playing conditions.

In selecting the architect assure your-
self that he is experienced and that his
past performance has demonstrated his
ability to properly handle all the prob-
lems that may be encountered. Learn
what courses he has built, visit some of
them to gain firsthand information of
his work, then enter into a written
agreement to avoid misunderstandings
in specifications for the course itself,
costs, terms, and other details. Natur-
ally, costs will vary depending on the
amount of clearing, size of the greens
and tees, and the type of construction.

Most golf-course architects are well
agreed on what makes the ideal nine-
hole course in the matter of distance.
Sucha course should measure over3000
yards, preferably around 3200 yards.
Authorities also agree that par (arbi-
trary measure of the difficulty of a hole)
for nine holes should be 35, 36, or 37,
with 35 being the most common. Most
experts suggest that there be two par-3
holes; two par-5 holes; the remaining
five holes to be par-4’s.

The well-balanced golf-course plan
is an alternating arrangement for dis-
tances of holes in a 4-5-4-3-4-5-4-3-4 or-
der of par to give variety. Limitations
in local terrain and property areas may
alter this plan to use of other combina-
tions. The first hole should be a rela-
tively easy par-4 hole of around 380 to
400 yards in length, comparatively free
of hazards or heavy rough, in order to
get the golfers started off on their game
as expeditiously as possible.

Par-3 holes range in length from 130
to 250 yards; par-4’s, 251 to 470 yards;
and par-5’s, 471 to 550. Generally
speaking, the holes should become in-
creasingly difficult to play as the round
proceeds. Fairway width is usually
about sixty yards but will vary depend-

J U1‘fE, 1964

ing on the type of players expected to
play the course and the strategy of the
play of the particular hole. Green sizes
usually vary from five thousand to eight
thousand square feet depending on the
length of the hole. The shape of a green
will depend on the strategy of design,
location and size of traps, and the length
of the shot playing to it. Tees should fit
into the terrain, be as wide as possible
(minimum width about thirty feet) , and
long if tournament play is anticipated.
As stated previously, a qualified golf-

 

teen-hole course $75,000 to $350,000.
Do-it-yourself nine-hole layouts have
at times been built for as little as
$25,000, but this is an exception to the
general rule.

Before proceeding with a golf venture
it is essential that detailed cost estimates
on all phases of the project be obtained.
Often key items which may increase
costs materially are overlooked. The
following budget, recently prepared for
a mid-Atlantic eighteen-hole golf proj-
ect, may serve as a guide:

From this elevated championship tee, a golfer surveys the par-three 'léth-hole island green at new
Golden Harseshoe Golf Course in Colonial Williamsburg, Virginia. Caurse opened last September.

course architect should have the proper
answers for design and construction of
a golf course for your specific site.

Prepare Construction Budget. Golf-
course construction costs vary greatly.
Four basic factors which will largely
determine the overall cost are the cost
of land, the natural assets and liabilities
of the site chosen, the labor and equip-
ment costs in the area, and the type of
design. Costs will vary widely depend-
ing on such items as size and quality of
greens and tees, type of construction of
the course itself, and type of irrigation
system used. Construction costs for a
nine-hole regulation course (not includ-
ing land costs) may range anywhere

from $40,000 to $150,000; for an eigh-

land acquisition (200 acres) 5 96,000
Topographic map of area 1,350
Construction of 18-hole course 158,000
Superintendent of construction (to be re-

tained by group as golf-course super-

intendent) 6,000
Field engineering 1,000
Twelve-acre pond on golf course 2,500
Fairway watering system 50,000
Four rain shelters on golf course 1,000
Well, piping system, and tour drinking

fountains 2,000
Golf-course architect tees 20,000
Golf-course maintenance equipment 20,000
Maintenance equipment shed 4.000
Access road 5,500
Parking area 7,000
Misc. contingencies 10,000
Total budget for project (exclusive of

clubhouse but including land costs of

$96,000) $384,350

As noted above, the $384,350 total

does not include a clubhouse, swimming
pool, or tennis courts, facilities that

307

may be desired if the project is to be
a country club. For a daily fee-type
course the cost of a functional golf shop

must be added.

Financing the Project. Five years
ago there was practically no financing
available for golf course construction.
This picture has changed. In recent
years some banks, insurance companies,
and other financial institutions have be-
come interested in golf course financ-
ing. Several federal government loan
programs designed to assist in the de-
velopment of recreation facilities are
now in effect. Among the federal agen-
cies that have financial assistance pro-
grams which may aid in the develop—
ment of golf courses are the U.S. De-
partment of Agriculture, Department of
Commerce, Housing and Home Finance
Agency, and the Small Business Admin-
istration. ( See “Golf Course Loan Pro-
grams,” RECREATION, ]anuary 1964.)
Course Maintenance Costs. The cost
of labor in a given area will have a de-
cided influence on the total golf-course
maintenance cost as about two-thirds of

the cost of maintenance usually goes for

salaries of the golf-course superintend-
ent, foremen, and laborers. A study of
the operations of fifty country clubs
(nationwide sampling) for the year
1962-63 made by a leading accounting
firm reveals that maintenance costs per
hole averaged $3,394. Of this, $2,156
represented cash payrolls. The same
study states that maintenance costs per
hole have increased from $2,396 to
$3,394, or forty-three percent during
the past ten years.

HERE WERE 7477 golf courses in
play in the United States as of J an-
uary 1, 1964; 673 of them were par-3
type layouts. About five hundred new
golf courses and/or additions were
opened for play throughout the nation
in 1963. This includes about one hun-
dred par-3’s. Leading states in new
golf-course development last year were
(totals include both regulation length
and par-3’s): California, 41; New
York, 39; Pennsylvania, 32; Florida,
31; Ohio, 27; Michigan, 19; North
Carolina, 18; Indiana, 15; New Jersey,
14; Virginia, 12.
Total capital investment in golf facil-

ities throughout the nation as of Janu-
ary 1, 1964 is estimated to be $1,797,-
000,000. Total annual maintenance
costs for the nation’s courses approxi-

mates $164,400,000. About $55,000,-

000 was spent for new golf course con-
struction during 1963. Total acreage
devoted to golf courses throughout the

United States is believed to be around
703,700. The National Golf Founda-
tion estimates that more than 126,000-
000 rounds of golf were played in 1963.
Will there be continued need for more
golf courses? 0n the basis of expected
population growth alone it is doubtful
that there will ever be sufficient courses
to serve the demand! The nation’s pop-
ulation today is 190,000,000; it is ex-
pected to be 300,000,000 in twenty-five
years. The ratio of golfers to courses,
nationwide, is about 960 per course at
present. Population increases, a short-
er workweek, increased leisure time,
and anticipated higher incomes all point
to increased participation in golf, the
one individual sport that can be en-
joyed by persons of almost any age or
sex during one’s entire lifetime! if:

 

LET FREEDOM RING !

HE LATE MORNING silence was
Tshattered by bells and carillions
ringing at parks and schools,
from church towers and other public
buildings in Los Angeles County last
July the Fourth, as a tradition dating
back to 1776 was reborn after a 186-
year lapse. In response to a nationwide
movement calling for the re-introduc-
tion of bell-ringing ceremonies in In-
dependence Day observances, the Los
Angeles Junior Chamber of Commerce
and the County of Los Angeles Depart-
ment of Parks and Recreation set in mo-
tion a door-to-door campaign to make
the movement an effective one in South-
ern California.
0n the eve of the first anniversary of
the signing of the Declaration of Inde-
pendence, bells were rung in Philadel-
phia. Since that time in 1777, except
for in a few regions across the nation in
1963, they have been conspicuously
silent.
In Los Angeles County, under the di-
rection of the Jaycee’s Ray Jutkins and

308

parks and recreation department social
cultural director Richard Abernethy,
bells rang out as a stirring reminder of
that occasion when a handful of men
pledged their lives and fortunes that

the American colonies would be inde-
pendent, sovereign powers. And in
1963, 186 years later, from county
churches and schools, over radio and
TV and from public-address systems in
shopping centers, parks and play—
grounds, bells pealed four minutes on
Independence Day at 11 AM.

Norman S. Johnson, director of parks
and recreation, summed up the feelings
of many of the county’s six and a half
million residents when he pointed out
that “nothing has stirred a deeper or
more profound feeling in me on Inde-
pendence Day than the sound of the
bells this year. The feeling was at once
reverent and fiercely prideful. It
brought to mind all the imagery of a
great national heritage dating back to
those early days in America when farm-
ers and storekeepers grabbed up their

rifles and rushed out to meet the enemy
when they heard the sound of bells ring-
ing in alarm at the approach of British
troops.”

An intensive publicity drive was es-
tablished. Personal contacts with most
of the county’s nearly 250 newspapers,
fifty radio and seven TV stations were
made. Each newspaper was asked for
editorial support and for news and fea-
ture coverage climaxing the first week
of July. Radio and TV spot announce-
ments, posters placed on the sides of
buses and at county parks, and free ad-
vertising space contributed in the
weekly ads of thousands of supermar-
kets, carried the message to millions of
Americans living in Los Angeles Coun-
ty.—BILL STEPHENS, Assistant Recrea-
tion Specialist, Los Angeles County,
California, Department of Parks and
Recreation.

0 If you need help in organizing a
similar observance in your community,
write to “Let Freedom Ring," Box
4140, Grand Central Station, New
York 10017.

RECREATION

VERY YEAR, from March through
E September, lightning bolts des-

troy tens of thousands of trees in
parks, golf courses, pastures, avenues,
and family backyards. Lightning-caused
forest fires, twice as frequent as those
caused by all the careless campers,
smokers, and trash burners in America,
are kept to a $30,000,000 annual loss
only by efforts of fifteen fire-fighting
agencies spending nearly $10,000,000 a
However, shade-tree losses can
be fully prevented, not simply contained.
Special copper lightning-protection sys-
items are practical and often urgent to
protect certain shade trees from this

worst of all tree destroyers.

year.

Today, this is being done at least
three times as often as a decade ago, ac-
cording to the Lightning Protection In—
stitute of Chicago. Special lightning
protection installations for trees—near-
ly a hundred percent effective when
properly made—are increasing every
year. There are several reasons: (1)
safety for people seeking storm shelter;
(2) economic reasons; (3) protection
for nearby property; (4) preservation
of trees with historic or sentimental
value; and (5) livestock protection.

Trees are attractive lightning targets
because they provide a better conduct-
ing path than air. Like a building, a
tree provides a “ladder” for positive
ground charges of electricity to climb
and strain toward the negative charges

in the storm cloud above. Certain trees

J UNE. 1964

are more likely lightning targets than
others. Height, depth of roots, type of
soil, elevation, and location are all fac-
tors. And so, it is believed, are the
properties of the wood.

More oaks are struck than any other
Species, but this may be because there
are more oaks in the heavier storm
areas. Authorities believe that, if all
other factors were equal, a tulip tree in
a grove of trees containing all species
would be the likeliest target. A long-
term study showed that the ten tree spe-
cies most often struck by lightning run
in this order: oak, elm, pine, tulip tree,
poplar, ash, maple, sycamore, hemlock,
and spruce. The species struck least
often are beech, birch, and horse chest-
nut.

Whatever the species, favorite light-
ning targets are a lone tree, the tall-
est tree in a group, and a tall tree
at the end of a row or edge of a grove
nearest the approaching storm. When
two trees are of equal height but
one is five feet from a house and the
other is fifteen feet away, the tree adja-
cent to the house would be the likeliest
target because the house plumbing
might give that tree a better ground.

Studies by the Lightning Protection
Institute show dangers and losses of
lightning striking trees. Here are sta-
tistics and what they mean!

SAFETY FOR PEOPLE. A study of five

hundred deaths and injuries from light-
ning bolts showed that in sixty-three of

ADMINISTRATION

 

 

 

Struck by lightningl Bolt shattered ancient tree
and branches broke the windows in the house.

those cases the casualties occurred un-
der trees struck by lightning. Golf
courses lead as sites of outdoor lightning
casualties, both those under trees and in
open shelters; therefore, course owners
are equipping trees as well as shelter
houses with lightning protection. 50 are
picnic-ground owners, parks boards or
managers, and many homeowners.

SAVING A TREE FOR ITS OWN VALUE.
Probably the biggest single factor in the
increase in lightning protection installa-
tions is the fact that a turning point has
been reached where generally it is more
expensive to remove a lightning-struck
tree than to protect one. In new outly-
ing residential areas particularly, real-
estate appraisals put value on trees that
when viewed against their increasing
vulnerability to lightning as they grow

309

taller, makes protection very desirable.
PROTECTION FOR BUILDINGS. From
thousands of lightning property loss re-
ports over a two-year period, the LPI
picked a thousand losses, large and
small, in which the lightning bolt’s point
of entry into the house was known. In
112 of those cases, or 11.2 percent, the
bolt first struck a tree, then flashed to
the house in search of better ground.
Lightning codes require the house to be
fully protected, with separate protec-
tion on each tree taller than the house
which is within ten feet of the building.
HOW TO PROTECT A TREE. Lightning
protection equipment made especially
for trees should be used, not material
made for other purposes. Only copper
is recommended, substitutes may cor-
rode and deteriorate. COpper systems
look better, too, and do not harm the
tree. A tree system contains four main
parts; air-terminal points (rods), con-
ductor cables,copper fasteners, and ade-
quate grounding.

A main air-terminal point is placed
as high up as it can be securely fastened,

  

l3 ' 1 r, t.
exam r/ I
. ‘ . R ' f
I \‘\ .II 

Standard tree conductor

1'

‘9‘, .- .
Typical branch ‘, ,  IV”,
/connection “ '- i
. ‘ \L \\\ J) J V
 (k Fmger— ype connector

 
   

‘3 /
\.~ 1 I
Miniature \ j//  
tree‘n' ‘ I  l/ ..
conductor .l " ’ *—
‘- Konductor clamp
_. " fr!)
Driven P HI/Ground rod
conductor j J Clamp
fastener

s
 .59

1 round connector
1 g .. - n‘ IM’

t

 

a 4/
/r /
 'Ground rod 

 

//////

ii?  .0 '
 z/////////

and miniature terminal points are fast-
ened on main branches. The main down-
conductor, a thirty-two strand, seven-
teen-gauge copper cable, runs from the
main terminal point to ground cables,

/

and is joined by connectors to fourteen-
strand, seventeen-gauge copper cable at-
tached to the branch terminals. Grounds
are generally half-inch to three-quarter-
inch rods driven to a ten-foot depth, but
special soil conditions may require spe-
cial grounding. Grounds are made
away from the main root system.

Trees with trunks more than three
feet in diameter need two down-conduc-
tors, on opposite sides of the trunk. The
cables are attached to the tree with spe-
cial fasteners that hold them away from
the trunk. Attachments are spaced at
three to four feet. If the grounding of
a building is within twenty-five feet of
a protected tree, the two systems can be
interconnected. If there are several
major trees in a row, there may be com-
mon grounding, so long as depth
grounds are no more than eighty feet.
0 More information on lightning pro—
tection for trees and a copy of a
twenty-page booklet, Lightning Facts
and Figures, may be obtained free
from the Lightning Protection Institute,
53 West Jackson Boulevard, Chicago.

 

Family Campus
Continued from Page 299

 

and Guitar Workshop, and workshops
in choral and instrumental music. In-
cluded on the music faculty are Beatrice
Perham Krone, Sam Hinton, Stu J amie-
son, Roger Abraham, Peter Ballinger,
Richard Chase, Marguerite Clapp, Dr.
Carl Dolmetsch of England, Sidney
Fox, Patty Grossman, Bess Hawes,
Josef Marais and Miranda, Karl Neu-
mann, Almeda Riddle, Frank Proflitt,
Joseph Saxby of England, Tony and
Irene Saletan.

Art enthusiasts may enroll for Paint-
ing and Drawing, Ceramics, Sculpture,
Design in the Arts, Far Eastern Art,
the Meaning and Enjoyment of Art,
Block Printing, Enamel-on-Copper, or
Mosaics. Head of the art faculty is
Harry Sternberg whose stall includes
Dr. Jon Covell, Dorothy Lewis, James

McGrath, Sterling Moak, Robert Ort-

lieb, and Susan Peterson.

The two-dance thrkSIlOpS~‘F0lk
Dance and Contemporary l)ance-—are
usually filled in advance of their start-
ing dates. Bella Lewitzky of Hollywood
and Virginia Tanner of Salt Lake City

310

are assisted by guest artists and teachers
in modern dance which includes ses-
sions for junior-high, senior-high, and
adult groups. Folk dance is headed by
Vyts Beliajus with a staff including
Madelynne Greene, Millie and Vernon

von Konsky, Grace P. Nicholes, and
Elizabeth Ulrich.

OTHER AREAS of interest are the
Drama Workshop, Spanish Lan-
guage for Elementary Teachers, Photo
Journalism, Arts in the Child’s Life,

Color Photography, and Recorder and
Gamba Workshop during the annual
Music Festival.

Children’s and adults’ sessions are
synchronized so that both groups are
in class the same hours and have free
time together. During free time, fami-
lies enioy the magnificent swimming
pool. the recreation and picnic areas,
family fun sessions with various staff
members, and one or more programs
each evening with concerts, films, stu-
dent performances, and other events for
families to enjoy together. The same
family participation is possible for the
special weekend programs from Friday
evening through Sunday afternoon,

with a children’s program planned to
coincide with the adult program.

THE HOUSING OFFICE at the founda-

tion helps families find suitable
accommodations for their stay, helps to
obtain reliable baby sitters for children
too young for evening programs and
helps plan individual programs to meet
the interests and needs of each family.
A completely detailed, illustrated bro-
chure giving exact dates for each pro-
gram, registration, and housing infor-
mation, and a description of the pro-
grams, the facilities, and the campus is
available from the Idyllwild Arts Foun-
dation, Idyllwild, California.

From three structures in 1950, the
campus now has a total of thirty-eight
buildings, with a beautiful regulation-
size pool, a handsome new conference
hall seating three hundred, and two new
residence halls with twenty-four rooms
each with private bath and patio. In
addition, the foundation controls the
Bluebird Hill Lodge in the village. With
these facilities, and its pleasant dining
hall and classroom buildings, the foun-
dation has been able to set up a winter

conference program from Labor Day to
June 15.

RECREATION

NOTES FOR THE ADMINISTRATOR

 

Funds for Roadside Development

M ANY parks and recreation administrators are unaware

of the availability of funds for the acquisition of
marginal lands for landscaping along highways. This pro-
vision is in Section 319 of Title 23, United States Code,
which is given in its entirety:

“The construction of highways by the states with funds
apportioned in accordance with Section 104 of this title
may include such roadside and landscape development, in-
cluding such sanitary and other facilities as may be deemed
necessary to provide for the suitable accommodation of the
public, all within the highway right-of-way and adjacent
publicly owned or controlled rest and recreational areas of
limited size and with provision for convenient and safe
access thereto by pedestrian and vehicular traffic, as may
be approved by the Secretary. Such construction likewise
may include the purchase of such adjacent strips of land
of limited width and primary importance for the preserva-
tion of the natural beauty through which highways are con-
structed, as may be approved by the Secretary. Not to exceed
three per centum of such sums, apportioned to a state in
any fiscal year in 'accordance with Section 104 of this title
may be used by it for the purchase of such adjacent strips
of land without being matched by such state.”

Federal Highway Administrator Rex M. Whitton states,
“While Section 319 has been a part of the federal highway
legislation since 1940, to date very limited use has been
made of it. To be precise, a single land acquisition project
along the Great River Road in Minnesota has been the only
case where a state highway department has elected to pro-
gram federal-aid highway monies for a taking as contem-
plated in the legislation. Prior to the establishment of the
interstate highway system in 1956, any use of a highway
department’s apportioned federal-aid monies, under the
terms of Section 319, would have resulted in a correspond-
ing reduction in the funds available for highway construc-
tion. Probably this reason alone has been a deterrent to
wide utilization of monies for purchase of lands for rest
and recreational purposes. These same reasons apply at the
present time as regards the use of the funds apportioned
for primary, secondary and urban highway improvements.

“Concerning the interstate highways, there is provision
for safety rest acres along the routes on that system, as a
part of the initial development. The highway departments
have not attempted to utilize interstate highway apportion-
ments to purchase additional lands under the terms of
Section 319.”

Recreation and park departments should apply for this
fund through their state highway departments. Says Mr.
Whitton, “All federal-aid highway monies are made avail-
able to the state highway departments and must be expended
by or through them. Projects for use of these monies are
initiated .by the departments and prosecuted by them sub-
ject to overall administrative surveillance by the Bureau
of Public Roads. At the present time Public Roads has no

JUNE, 1964.

procedural memoranda covering specifically the imple-
mentation of Section 319. The state highway departments,
however, are generally familiar with our processes, and if
they elect to utilize Section 319 they will secure advice from
our division engineers in the several states.”

Happy Combination

MALGAMATION of parks and recreation services in
Brantford, Ontario, began formally in January 1963
when the Brantford City Council appointed the same seven
persons to both the Board of Park Management and to the
Recreation Commission. After twelve months of progress,
the board members unanimously agreed at their December
1963 meeting that the combined operation had been a suc-
cess and requested the mayor and council to continue the
amalgamation by making new appointments in the same
way as in 1963, and by continuing to work towards a com-
plete amalgamation by special legislation if necessary.

While the Board of Park Management has been created
under the Public Parks Act (in Brantford’s case in 1900),
Ontario law does not provide for a simple amalgamation of
parks and recreation services. A number of private bills
have been passed in the legislature. The Society of Directors
of Municipal Recreation of Ontario is preparing a brief
for submission to the various departments of government
requesting changes which will make it easier for parks and
recreation services to be amalgamated.

Members of the Brantford Board of Park Management
and Recreation Commission are so pleased with their prog-
ress in coordinating the municipal parks and recreation
services that they have offered to advise other municipalities
on their methods and reasons for their success. Members
of the first combined board believe that one of the main
reasons for this success has been the cooperation of the
administrative staffs in parks and recreation.

The main change in management has been the transfer of
all maintenance and facilities development work to the
parks division. This has left the recreation staff freer to
expand and improve programs. Both the board and the staff
agree that amalgamation in Brantford has produced im-
proved services tO the citizens through a more efficient use

of personnel and money. Combined parks and recreation
budgets in Brantford total $473,000.

Operation Night Light

A SMALL sailboat skipper in Wisconsin has filed a suit

contesting the legality of an ordinance of the city of
Madison which goes further than Wisconsin ‘state law in its
requirement for lighting of sailboats, canoes, and rowboats
in operation at night. The plaintiff was arrested for operat-
ing his sailboat on Lake Monena after dark equipped only
with a flashlight. Under state law a flashlight or lantern
showing a white light is sufficient. Such light shall be exhib-

311

ited in sufficient time to avert collision, and plaintiff said
he complied with the state law by shining his flashlight on
his sail as a city policeboat approached. The city ordinance,
however, requires a white light visible all around the hori-
zon for a distance of five hundred feet. It is alleged that
this is inconsistent with state law, and, therefore, the city
lighting requirement is invalidated by the Wisconsin Boat-
ing Act which provides no municipality may enact regula-
tions that are contrary or inconsistent with state law.—

From the Legislative Ledger, Outboard Boating Club of

America.

State Park Fees

THE California State Park Commission increased fees for

the use of state parks and beaches as of January 1,
in keeping with a policy of assessing part of the cost of
maintaining state parks to the users. This is the first increase
since 1954. Because increases in costs were higher in some
areas than others, the commission set up the following three
types of parks:

Type A. Campgrounds which include sanitary facilities,
drinking water, hot showers, laundries and improved roads.
The fee will be $2 per automobile per night.

Type B. Campgrounds, the same as above except for hot
showers. The fee will be $1.50 per automobile per night.

Type C. Campgrounds which do not include some of the
modern conveniences as the other types. The fee will be $1
per automobile per night.

Million Dollar Saving

PERSONNEL SAVINGS of a million dollars are reflected in
the 1964-65 tentative current level budget for the Los
Angeles City Recreation and Parks Department recently for-
warded to City Administrative Officer C. Erwin Piper. In
a letter accompanying the tentative budget, Leonard Shane,
president of the recreation and park commission, empha-
sized that an annual aggregate savings return of approxi-
mately two million dollars a year is projected. The savings
have been achieved through the establishment of manage-
ment controls as a result of a survey by H. B. Maynard and
Company.
Mr. Shane pointed out that in accordance with previous

Specialized Games Equipment
Active Games for Handicapped and Aged

Pre-Tested in Hospitals—Nursing Homes
Colorful. durable equipment each with point scores.
Can be used for instruction. physical conditioning.

contests, parties. and carnivals. Easily stored.

FOR ALL SEASONS
USE INDOORS AND OUTDOORS
FREE BROCHURE

Recreational Research Institute

258 Broadway. New York. N. Y. l0007 ° REctor 2-4550
Dept. R

312

 

reports to the CA0, the office of the mayor, and the city coun-
oil, “The savings are being taken not only through a reduc-
tion in proportionate cash expended for personnel, but also
in the form of increased services as the total number of fa-
cilities grows and the demand of the public for more diversi-
fied services is satisfied.” The letter emphasized that even
though the recreation and park system is growing, the per-
sonnel budget is not increasing; and that, in fact, overall
personnel costs are being reduced while even greater serv-
ice is being rendered at a constantly increasing number of
facilities.

Water-Use Activities

A PROPOSAL to change regulations governing water-use

activities in the National Park System was announced
recently by the U.S. Department of the Interior. The re-
visions are intended to:

0 Establish uniform regulations for water-use activities
throughout the National Park Service and to insure their
service-wide applications.

0 Delete obsolete and imprecise regulations to permit max-
imum use of water resources.

0 Parallel U. S. Coast Guard regulations pertaining to nav-
igable waters.

0 Provide for health, safety and welfare of persons and
property. ‘

o Conserve and protect park values and consolidate all Na-
tional Park Service boating regulations.

Principal changes include required numbering of all
vessels with more than ten-horsepower motors, and amend-
ments to existing safety regulations. These will bring the
NPS regulations in line with the regulations of the Coast
Guard which exercises dual control over navigable waters.

Strengthening Amateur Athletics

A White House Commission on Sports has been suggested

by Senator Hubert H. Humphrey of Minnesota. A key
goal of the commission would be to outline “a massive grass-
roots program to improve U.S. performance in future Olym-
pic competition.”

Senator Humphrey recently made public a letter which
he has written to President Lyndon B. Johnson, suggesting
that a commission be considered as one means to strengthen
American amateur athletics, and reports that President
Johnson is “deeply interested in advancing the great sports-
fitness program pioneered by the late President Kennedy.”

A White House Commission would have many purposes,
says the senator. It could:

0 Seek a realistic answer to the grim problem of unfair
foreign competition in the form of state-subsidized athletics,
particularly by Communist-bloc countries.

0 Help avoid the ‘family war’ within U.S. amateur athletics
which threatens to erupt again after the Tokyo Olympics
in October.

0 Bring in fresh viewpoints from American civic leaders,
in addition to the experienced judgment of representatives
of leading sports organizations.

RECREATION

Gulf Streamed Recreation
Continued from Page 275

 

special coconut husking contests. The
affair was Open to all ages.

Metro Dade County Parks Director
A. D. Barnes encourages the use “Of spe-
cial areas in the park system for county-
wide events supervised by the recrea-
tion division. In addition to Vizcaya,
an Italian-styled palace where little
ladies dress up in mother’s clothes and
put on a fashion show to end all fashion
shows, there is Camp Owaissa Bauer
which is used for an outdoor family
camping clinic each spring to show new
trailer and tent equipment for camping
outdoors; the Crandon Park Zoo where
kids paint for a day; several park ham-

' mock areas where nature hikes and bird

walks are conducted; kite flying in oc-
eanfront parks; and model plane flying
at a central stadium.

THE DIVISION TODAY has its own stadi-

um located centrally in the large
' twenty-five hundred sq'uare mile Dade
County area. It seats eight thousand
persons and is used primarily for high-
school football events. However, to
keep it active year round the division
has recently begun archery training and
controlled-flight, gas-powered model
plane flying there as off-season activi-
ties.

Last summer, Metro Dade County
built seven L-shaped twenty-five-meter
Olympic short-course swimming pools
at a cost of $850,000. These are busy
year-round teaching youngsters to
swim. This training is now a part of
the curriculum of schools‘in the neigh-
borhood where these pools are located.
Prior to the building of the pools, pop-
ular learn-to-swim programs were con-
ducted in park lagoon swimming areas
or any place where there was water for
instruction. The pools have also become
the center for adult exercise classes
which formerly had a park locale.

The recreation division also operates
the Mid-Town Dade County Auditori-
um seating over twenty-five hundred
persons, which presents ballet, opera,
symphonies, and leading artists of the
musical world. Van Cliburn recently
finished an engagement there while a
Spanish Flamenco dance group headed

by Jose Creco appeared the previous
Week.

JUNE, 1964.

'l‘HE DIVISION tries to hold as many
county-wide activities as possible in

“additiOn to its regular neighborhood-

Kite

flying is one, as are fishing contests,

center play and craft programs.

painting contests, rifle matches, fashion
shows, pet shows, and the Junior Or-
ange Bowl festivities. A serious show
is Vizcaya’s Artists Day, where several
hundred amateur and professional ar-
tists gather each year to hold a clothes-
line sale of their paintings. It attracts
thousands of interested spectators.
The division also has use of a full-
size outdoor rifle and pistol range. Its
most popular event is a Junior Rifle
Roundup in which 250 Dade County
youngsters participate each month.
The division has high standards for
its personnel, selecting its full-time staff
from college graduates. Part-time in-
structors and assistants must have had
some college and be well skilled in the
work they are doing. It also puts em-
phasis on specialists. It has a trained
naturalist who travels throughout the
twenty-nine neighborhood areas,
schools, and playgrounds to bring na-
ture to the students by slides, movies,
and displays. He and an assistant also
conduct regular outdoor nature walks

and bird hikes in the field.

A REMARKABLE FEATURE of the rec-

reation program has been teaching
water safety in the elementary school to
over a hundred thousand youngsters
each year. Flying under the banner of
“Rockpit Rangers,” all students are
taught not to swim in rockpits, which
are blue-watered lakes formed in coral
rock excavations, and not to swim in
canals. Many lives have been lost in
Greater Miami because youngsters have
fallen in or played around these danger
areas. A slogan contest is given at the
end of the course and prizes awarded
the school and various children who
win. A typical winning slogan was:
“Rockpits and canals are not my line—
’cause I’m eight now and wanna be
nine."

Metro Dade County plans to add two
more giant stadia to its facilities in the
near future. One will be located in the
northern part of the county and the
other will serve the south end. These
will add new facets to its county-wide

program in recreation which has rock-

eted since 1961. #

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

     
  

100%
ALUMINUM

0
EXTRA HEAVY-DUTY Tenms
LIFETIME

CONSTRUCTION Tables

Exclusively Designed for Intensive
Use in All Public Recreation Areas

INDOOR and OUTDOOR

OFFICIAL \
REGULATION -
SIZE and BALL
3 BOUNCE

/ 73‘ A

   
       
   
      
  
     
     

Table

 

 

  
     
   

 
 
  

      
  

\
‘ r

   

Folding Leg
and Rigid Leg
Models

ATTRACTIVE NON-CLARE
GREEN SURFACE with WHITE LINES

ELIMINATE MAINTENANCE
& REPLACEMENT PROBLEMS

USED WORLD-WIDE IN: Municipal Recrea-
tion Centers, Colleges, Schools, Armed
Forces, Clubs, Parks. etc.

for Full Details Write:

ALL METAL TENNIS TABLE 00.
Dept. T — Box 142. Teaneck, N. J.

Sound-Proofed
Surface

   
   
  
   
   
     
   
     
 

  

 

 

You '_;,*j\
With Your?
Workshops " .

135 skilled instruc-
tors in 100 moior
cities, coast to

roost. " f .

JUST ASK US! (“3

FREE CATALOG
Write today for Tandy’s big
112 Page Craft Catalog

aw

P. 0. Box 791-DO Fort Worth, Texas

313

MARKET NEWS

 

o COLOR IN DEPTH. Acrylic latex color finishes provide a
long-lasting coating for tennis courts, playgrounds, median
strips, sidewalks, patios, and driveways. Come in eight
colors: grass green, dark green, red, sand, blue, turquoise,
light gray, and dark gray. Line colors are available in
white and yellow. For further information on company’s
complete line of color coatings—Plexipave, Plexicolor, and
Plexichrome—for all types of recreation areas, write to the
California Products Corporation, 169 Waverly Street, Cam-
bridge 39, Massachusetts.

0 IMPROVE YOUR APPROACH. The game of Chippy Golf is
played under the same rules as regular golf, but with one
major exception: the ball is “chipped” into suspended nylon
nets instead of “putted” into cups on greens. Some of the
advantages of Chippy Golf are:

0 Size of course can be as small as two acres.

0 Only one club is needed; usually a wedge or nine iron.

0 Ease and swiftness of installation. A “nine-net” course
can be installed in a few hours by one man.

0 Low cost of initial equipment and low maintenance cost,
which consists mostly of fairway mowing.

o Improves your “approach” and pitch shots.

For further information about the game of Chippy Golf
and equipment, write to Recreation Products Company, PO.
Box 69, Norris, Tennessee.

0 GUIDELINES FOR TRACK AND FIELD. A riding, power-
driven, dry-line marker, designed especially for track and
field, has a tOp speed of better than six miles per hour and
is driven by a three horsepower Briggs and Stratton engine.
It has a movable track-lane gauge for determining the width
of track lanes and it is possible to mark an eight-lane quarter-
mile track in thirty minutes or less. For further information,
write to H & R Manufacturing Company, P.0. Box 34785,
Palms Station, 3463 Motor Avenue, Los Angeles 34, Cali-

fornia.

o POUR YOUR OWN concrete castings. Manufacturer of con-
crete specialty forms offers molds for pool c0pings, park-
ing curbs, park benches (with wood or concrete seats and
backs), paving blocks and step stones (including round step
stones for special effects). All molds are easy to pour, strip,
and clean; no rough edges or bothersome hairline seams.
For catalogue on concrete forms and supplementary infor-
mation sheets on tree planters, truck hoists, et cetera, write

to R. L. Spillman Company, Box 4167, Columbus, Ohio
43207.

0 Do FENCE THEM IN! Picket and stockade fencing adds its
own special effect to park areas, camps, riding rings, garden

 

spots, patios, et cetera. Farley Fences are carefully con-
structed of Michigan white cedar, which will weather to a
silvery gray tone and never needs painting. If desired, the
fence can be factory finished with a special preservative stain
in soft green, brown, or redwood. Gates and hardware also
available. Fences comes in various picket and stockade
styles as well as lattice, post and rail, hurdle, wire-woven
weave, basketweave. Special detailing includes stepped sec-
tions, end-sweep sections, concave top, convex tOp, graded
sections, and sweep sections. For catalogue, write to Farley
Fences, Inc., Bay City, Michigan.

0 BRUSH STROKE PEN. New sign pen markers called Pentel
combine the hard touch of a ballpoint pen with the soft feel
of a Japanese lettering brush. These imported fine line
markers can be used on every kind of paper or board—
the ink never shows through! Ideal for sketching, layouts,
writing, addressing, posters, signs, et cetera. Last for a long
time (not refillable) . Available in black, blue, and red. For
brochure, write to A. I. Friedman Inc., 25 West 45th Street,
New York 10036.

c PAINTS FOR SWIMMING POOLS have a very tough job to
perform even under the most favorable conditions. They
must resist sun, chemicals, discoloration, moisture, et cetera.
Manufacturer of pool coatings produces three formulations
of pool coatings: (1) Formula “C” Rubber Base, (2) Poxo-
lon (Epoxy) and (3) Superthane, the newest Polyisoprene
formulation. For 18-page Olympic Pool Painting Guide and
other literature write to the Kelley Paint Company, 1445
South 15th Street, Louisville, Kentucky.

0 CLOSE TRIM. A new
portable power clearing
tool makes light work of
ground maintenance. The
Hofjco Power Scythe cuts
anywhere you can walk or
reach. You can cut and
trim with it five times as
fast as with weed-whips,
swing-scythes, brush-
hooks, clippers, or axes
. . . and you can pump with
it, too—basements, boats,
puddles, et cetera. The power transmission is of lightweight,
heavily-walled, magnesium-alloy Structural tubing. The
H offco Power Scythe weights only twenty-eight pounds and
utilizes balanced-weight positioning from a Single-point
Shoulder-suspension strap. This makes it easy to carry and
simple to maneuver in and out of the many tight spots where
you will use it. For further information, write to Hoffco,
lnc.. 25 Washington Avenue, Richmond, Indiana.

For further information, please write directly to source given and mention RECREATION Magazine.

314

RECREATION

J

RESOURCE GUIDE

 

       

INDEX TO ADVERTISERS
All-Metal Tennis Table ......____....______. F333

American Excelsior MM 319
American locker 262-3
American Playground Device Inside Front Cover
Arben Marine __ Inside Back Cover

 

Arrow System __..__...__._._ 323
Ball-Boy _ 257
Classified 316
Dimco-Gray ___..........._.._______..... 319
Douglas Wells m-_______.._.... 319
H. and R. Manufacturing __ 323
Handweaver and Craftsmen 323
Hillerich 8. Bradsby Inside Front Cover
Kwikbilt 323
Mexico Forge Inside Back Cover
Miracle Equipment ..,__._________.__ 259
National Studios ____;___ 264 and 323

 

 

Playground Manuals Inside Back Cover
Playground Summer Notebook

Inside Back Cover
Plume Trading .......__ 264
Recreation Research Institute 312
Sentinel lockers 317
Sico Inside Front Cover
8 & S Arts & Crafts 323
Tandy leather 313
World-Wide Games __ 264

ATTENTION

NRA-Affiliated Parks
and Recreation Departments

IS YOUR PEBSONNEL
PROTECTED
AGAINST
LIABILITY SUITS

9

For liability insurance protection

provided by
NRA MEMBERSHIP

write to _

NATIONAL
RECREATION
A880CIATION

8 West Eighth Street New York 10011

 

F AIDS—Please Write Directly To Sources Given

ARTS AND CRAFTS

The latest in seocraft. A new direct modeling
medium coIled Sculpsand can be mixed with
ordinary beach sond, screened eorth, common
cloy, almost any inert powder and even some
cereals. Air-dries stone-hard. Use bottles, bottle
caps, tin cans, paper cups, buttons, tacks, tinfoil,
moss, leaves, stones, pebbles, seoshells, wire,
and any other gadgets you can flush up as part
of your sculpture. For further information, as
well as a catalogue of arts and crafts supplies
(catalogue of camp praiects also available),
write to The Crafters of Pine Dunes, Cascade,
Wisconsin.

Need a rabbit skin to wrap Baby Bunting in?
Leathercraft house offers range full of skins:
Coronado gaot, slunk (unborn calf), hazel pig,
Benedictine camel suede, Brazilian pig. For
complete catologue, write to Tandy leather Com-
pany, P. O. Box 791, Fort Worth, Texas.

AUDIO-VISUAL

A ski-instruction film presenting the new Ameri-
can system af teaching stars Stein Eriksen,
generally acknowledged as the greatest skier in
the world, a four-time Gold Medal winner in
Olympic and world championships. It features,
in commanding action and scenic beauty, some
of the best U. S. skiing in New England, the
Midwest, and the Rocky Mountains. The Mm
was made in cooperation with the United States
Ski Association, the national authority for ski-
ing and ski instruction, by the producer, Buick
Motor Division. It conforms to the letter with
the new, national standards for instruction es-
tablished by the U. S. Ski Association, and, in
that sense, is a part of the praiect to coordinate
and standardize ski-teaching courses all over
the country.

The film is 16mm, runs 281/; minutes, with
sound and canr made in "lip sync" (live
sound) even during all of the instructional se-
quences. The film, Ski with Buick, will be ovaiI-

r—u—u——————__h_________________——_—————————

8 West Eighth Street
New York, New York 1001 I

I wont to introduce my leaders to science activities.
me .................. -- copies of SCIENCE THROUGH RECREATION at $1.00 a copy.
My check or money order is enclosed.

 

able for free showings at ski clubs, resort areos,
service clubs, schools and colleges, or for ony
group. It may be reserved at any one of
thirty-two U. S. and Canadian offices of Mad-
ern Talking Picture Service, Inc., or directly from
the central office of 3 East 54th Street, New
York 10022.

Don't snap off the lights. Portable overhead
praiectar gives cleor, bright image in fully light-
ed rooms. The Travel-Graph 21000 weighs
only seventeen pounds and praiects sharp im-
ages, ronging from 35“-by-35" to 80"-by-80"
at selected distances from five and a half to ten
feet. For additional information, write to Pro-
iection Optics Company, 271 Eleventh Avenue,
East Orange, New Jersey.

Toppers and rappers. Far rhythm-h oppy activi-
ties, introduce your porticiponts to Turkish wrist
bells, finger cymbals, tch-tch marocas, tone
blacks, Chino-type tams toms, and unibango
drums. Write for catalogue called "The Grow-
ing Years" to Childcroft Equipment, 155 East
23rd Street, New York 10010.

Ship ahay!-. A new edition of a directory of
boating contains about three hundred films,
ninety of which are new listings. Most of the
films are available on free loan to boating
groups, educational organizations and safety
units of the Red Cross, Boy Scouts, et cetero.
All films are 16mm, and most have sound and
color. Film categories include racing, cruising,
boot maintenance, soiling, autboording, safety,
navigation, fishing, water skiing, swimming,
boat building, adventures on the water, marlin-
spike seamanship, and weather lore. Single
copies of the directory are available free on

request from National Association of Engine
and Boat Manufacturers, Inc., 420 lexingtan

Avenue, New York 10017.

What can you buy for half a cent? A portable
public-address system, the Mabilpoge 6603 is
completely self-contained, operates far more

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION

 

 

State 8: lecode

(Please print name and address)

All. ORDERS MUST BE POSTPAID. NO DISCOUNT.

Please send

 

than five hundred hours on two economical bat-
teries at a cost of less than half a cent per
hour. It sets up In seconds and requires no
warmup. This “night-light" system weighs six-
teen pounds—an ideal companion for the man
on the go with important things to say. For
further information, write to Midwest Audio
Corporation, 4938 West North Avenue, Chi-
cago 39.

EQUIPMENI

Get an iron horse . . . Real steam railroad equip-
ment for parks, zoos, amusement areas trans-
ports visitors in authentic style. locomotive,
coaches, and cabooses are available in three
sizes with capacities from eight to eighty, plus
rail and accessories. For illustrated leaflets,
write to Crown Metal Products Company, Wy-
ano, Pennsylvania 15695.

Sleep on air. Air mattress features internal con-
struction which permits free flow of air through-
out, assuring stability, uniform thickness, and
freedom from roll. Tuft—Aire is made of strong
cotton sheeting with a coating that is durable
and a hundred percent air light, has a metal,
rustproof lock-type air valve. light weight——-3.8
pounds—and roomy—31"x79". For information
plus sporting specialties catalogue, write to
Hadgman Rubber Company, Framingham, Mas-
sachusetts.

Offle AIDS

Transference. A machine offering two copying
processes in one portable unit, the Trans-O-
Print will copy any original, opaque or trans-
parent, from a single sheet to a book. Copies
may be obtained on paper or acetate sheets,
ideally suited for proiection an an overhead
proiectar. You can also reproduce slides in

brilliant colors via the Diazo method on Transfoil
acetates. For information, write to Viewlex,

lnc., Holbrook, New York.

 

PROGRAM AIDS

Timely tributes. Trophies for special presen-
tations and gifts incorporate alarm clock and
trophy figure mounted on marble or onyx. For
catalogue of trophies, plaques, medals, em-
blems, and novelties, write to Advance Onyx
Trophies, Inc., 254 Flushing Avenue, Brooklyn
5, New York.

Snow lob. Raise funds with money-making
magic snow-cone machines. Junior model is
compact, designed for use where space is lim-
ited. Deluxe model features both syrup-dis-
pensing units and fruit pan containers for mak-
ing snow-magic sundaes. For catalogue of snow
cane machine models, write Samuel Bert Manu-
facturing Company, Fair Park, Dallas, Texas.

Prestige. Plaques for membership or awards in
mahogany or walnut with brass plate and black
lettering to your specifications. For further in-
formation, write to Humphrey's Trophies, 304
West Market Street, Johnson City, Tennessee.

 

[OW-COST AIDS

Order these resources and references di-
rectly from source given (enclose remittance).

No man is an island. The special "island issue"
of the Hi Neighbor Series prepared by the U. 5.
Committee for UNICEF, the United Nations Chil-
dren's Fund, introduces the children of Ceylon,
Jamaica, Madagascar, and the Philippines
through their history and folklore, down-to-
earth details of their family life, the games they
play, the food they eat, and the songs they
sing. Hi Neighbor Book 7 ($1.50) is illus-
trated with uncluttered maps, bIack-and-white
drawings, numerous photographs and a chart

CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING

RATES: Words in regular type $.15 each DEADLINES: Copy must be received by
Words in boldrace type $.25 each the fifth or the month preceding date of

RATES: Minimum ad accepted . . . . $3.00

the issue in which ad is desired.

COPY: Type—or clearly print—your message and the address to which you wish
replies sent. Underline any words you want to appear in balance type.

Send copy with remittance to:

 

RECREATION Classified Advertising, 8 West 8th Street, New York, New York 10011.

HELP WANTED

Therapists for California 95314
State Hos itals. Opportu- .
allies to an and 00mm“ Recreation

individu patient recrea-

Board, 801 Capitol Mall,
Sacramento, California

Elizabeth Gentry, Austin-
Travis County Health De-
partment, 1313 Sabine
Street, Austin, Texas 78701.

therapist
’ Community School Pro-

tion as well as special
group activities; modern
equipment and facilities.
Positions open to college
graduates with major in
recreation orrecreation
therapy including an r-
vised held work. S ary
range: 3486 to $590 a
month. Promotional o por-
tunities, attractive emp oyee
benefits. Write: Medical
Personnel Services. Cali-
fornia State Personnel

preferably with two years
experience, to work on a
team with an MD, physical
therapist, and nurses for re-
habilitation program in
nursing homes. Forty-hour
week, two-weeks vacation,
two-weeks sick leave, re-
tirement plan, and Social
Security. Beginning salary
with two years experience
$6.204, without experience
35,808 plus generous travel
allowance. Write to Dr.

gram Director. To plan,
supervise activities for aft-
er-school program; super-
vise part-time, volunteer
group leaders; assist in
locating neighborhood in-
dividuals, groups needing
Community School services.
College degree required.
Starting salary: $5,500.
Write to: Mr. Robert Pleas-
are, Winchester Community
School, 68 Gregory Street,
New Haven, Connecticut.

The publisher assumes no responsibility far services or items advertised here.

316

that gives the pronunciation of a few simple
wards——-including "Hi, Neighborl"——-in the lan-
guage of each country. Record 7 ($3.00) con-
tains songs and dances from the countries in
the book. The Hi Neighbor books and records
may be purchased in the United Nations Book-
store or ordered by mail from the U. 5. Com-
mittee for UNICEF, United Nations, New York.

Color us sad. The pros and cans of the Color
Book Craze are covered in an eight-page leaflet
prepared for the Association for Childhood Edu-
cation lnternational by Blanche Jefferson, chair-
man of the Program in Art Education at the
University of Pittsburgh. It is one of a series of
membership service bulletins and is available
for $.10 (25 copies for $2) from the ACE,
3615 Wisconsin Avenue, N.W., Washington,
D.C. 20016. Two other excellent bulletins in this
series are What Are Nursery Schools For? and
Guide to Children's Magazines, Newspapers,
Reference Books ($.10 each).

Now is the time . . . A new seventy-six-page
illustrated booklet, The Race for Inner Space,
published by the U. S. Department of the ln-
terior, dramatizes the loss or abuse of areas
ideally suited for public use. The booklet was
prepared by the department to meet increasing
requests from conservation groups and indi-
viduals for information regarding specific con-
servation problems, the approach of the depart-
ment in attempting to solve these problems,
and ways in which the general public can help
preserve much-needed open space for present
and future generations. The Race for Inner Space
contains more than eighty photographs that help
tell the story of the department's renewed ef-
forts to preserve and provide more outdoor en-
ioyment far this nation's growing population
and to utilize wisely the total resource environ-
ment, ranging from fish and wildlife to minerals
and forests. The Race for Inner Space may be
purchased for $.55 from the Government Print-
ing Office, Washington, D. C. 20402.

YWCA goes coed. The young adult program
of YWCA's, now designed to include both sexes,
is explained in a new mimeagraphic, 31-page
publication, Young Adults In the 1960’s. it
covers three sections: 1. Young Adults: Persons;
ll. Young Adults: Program Participants;
Ill. Young Adults: leaders for the Future. Pra-
grom structure and activities are covered in
Section II, while Section III deals with leader-
ship training. Available for $1.00 from the
Bureau of Communications, National Board
YWCA, 600 lexington Avenue, New' York

10022.
0

To see the forest for the trees, let your eyes do
the walking through the pages of Trees of the
Forest—Their Beauty and Use, a twenty-four-
page illustrated pamphlet iust released by the
U. 5. Forest Service. This new publication de-
scribes the habits ond characteristics of several
great American trees and tells where they grow.
It also describes how the U. 5. Forest Service
Ranger "babysits" with a managed forest in its
infancy, nurtures it in adolescence, and harvests
it in adulthood for thousands of useful and
beautiful products. Each of the 154 National
Forests is a living demonstration area where
Americans can gain a better understanding and
appreclotion of our timbered heritage. Copies
of this publication (Forest Service PA-6'I3t can
be obtained for $.20 from the U. S. Govern-
ment Printing Office, Washington, D. C. 20402.

Recaasnon

 

B: FOR THE ILL 6.329 HANDICAPPED

+ A four-year study of preschool re-
tarded children has shown that the
youngsters reSpond to teaching that
offers a challenge and calls for their use
of judgment, reports The New York
Times (February 23). The study,
made at Teachers College, Columbia
University, showed that the retarded
child responded favorably when he was
treated more like a normal child than
has been the case in traditional pro-
grams. Some of the youngsters who
participated in the project went on to
regular public school classes and pro-
duced higher reading scores than many
of their classmates, the report said.

The three hundred-page report, An
Experimental Curriculum for Young
Mentally Retarded Children, was pre-
pared by Dr. Frances P. Connor, head
of the Department of Special Education
at the college, and Dr. Mabel E. Tal-
bot, assistant professor of education.
It was made possible -by grants from
the United States Ofiice of Education
and with the c00peration of the Board
of Education. It involved sixty chil-
dren from Manhattan, the Bronx, and
Queens. They ranged in age from four
years and nine months to six years and
nine months. The curriculum was re-
garded as a major departure from the
typical approach to education of the
retarded in that it did not call for pas-
sive behavior or mechanical grasp of
skills. Instead, it was organized in “ac-
tion settings” that gave the children
mobility of action and thought. It in-
cluded outside Visits to neighborhood
shops. Included were group singing,
handwork, cooking (for the girls), mu-
sic periods, discussion periods and
storytelling, as well as reading, spelling,
and arithmetic. The children also
learned some social graces and how to
care for their personal needs. Above
all, the report noted, the children were
given an opportunity to think on their
own and to make decisions and judge-
ments.

Results of achievement tests “showed
encouraging academic growth of the
children who attended the experimen-
tal pre-school program. Those placed
in both special and regular classes
yielded signilicantly higher reading
scores than their peers—they were ap-
proximately five months superior on
this subtest.”

DR. THOMPSON is director of the N a-
tional Recreation Association’s Consult-
ing Service on Recreation for the Ill and
Handicapped.

JUNE, 1964

Morton Thompson, Ed.D.

+ A “European Extravaganza” vaca-
tion tour is being planned by the Na-
tional Rehabilitation Association to be-
gin July 17. The tour will cost $700,
which includes first-class hotels, two
meals a day, and all tips and services.
The twenty-three-day tour will include
visits to Paris and Rome, Visits to fa-
mous entertainment spots, and oppor-

tunities to visit rehabilitation facilities
in Europe. For specific information,
write to Norman F arber, Institute for
Crippled and Disabled, 400 First Ave-
nue, New York City.

+ A resident camp used for the handi-
capped as well as for the non-handi-
capped is operated by the Kansas City,
Missouri, Department of Public Recre-
ation. The schedule includes ten day
sessions for exceptional children, car-
diacs, diabetics, the celebral palsied and
golden-agers. These programs are

scheduled around the non-handicapped.
sessions during July.

 

The only adverse comment
on the new Sentinel locks. . .

 

has been by those who
didn’t think of them first.

 

If you’re thinking
of coin-operated locks,

WATBII llll'l'

 

else you’ll get lockers
as obsolete as a dodo. . . write

SW

COIN OPERATED LOCKERS

A name that's like Sterling on Silver
LOUDONVILLE, OHIO

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

317

PERSONNEL

 

STUDENT APPROACH TO RECRUITMENT

 

COLLEGE
STUDENTS

 

David E. Sterle

COLLEGE STUD-
ENTS major-
ing in recreation
share with the pro-
fessionals the re-
sponsibility for re-
cruiting capable
young people into
the profession. Recognizing this need,
the Indiana University Graduate Rec-
reation Society recently instigated a
special career-day p r o g r a m called
“Spotlight on Recreation Leadership.”
Each year, the department of recreation
at Indiana University participates in a
general career day held by the school of
health, physical education, and recrea-
tion in the fall of the year. Contacts
are made through the various high
schools in the state, and high school stu-
dents are invited for a program which
covers a brief introduction to the school
and to each of its four departments.

 

Last year, members of the Graduate
Recreation Society conceived the idea
of following up the school career day
with a special day focused solely on rec-
reati on. The idea behind “Spotlight on
Recreation Leadership Day” was to zero
in on potential recreation students using
rifle rather than the shotgun approach.
Contacts were made with alumni
throughout the state, urging them to
contact personally young people who
had evidenced a definite interest in rec-
reation or had demonstrated skills and
aptitude particularly suited to the recre-
ation profession. In addition, the alum-
ni were urged to attend the program

 

DR. STERLE completed his graduate
work at Indiana University and is now
on the recreation faculty of San Fer-
nando Valley State College, N orthridge,
Cali/omia.

318

themselves and contribute to its success
by transporting the students from their
home community.

While the idea met with only modest
success from the standpoint of attend-
ance, the participation of the young
people present was very enthusiastic.
Several of the young people in attend-
ance seemed to be making very definite
plans for embarking on careers in rec-
reation leadership.

The program in the morning includ-
ed the movie Careers in Recreation;
a stimulating address, “The Need for
the Recreation Profession in the Twen-

 

lndiana University students help potential recre-
ation majors plan their Career Day program.

tieth Century,” by Dr. Janet MacLean,
assistant professor of recreation; and a
student panel presentation of opportu-
nities available in each of the different
areas of recreation employment. Indi-
ana students spoke on the opportunities
for employment in therapeutic recrea-
tion, public recreation and parks, pri-
vate-agency recreation, camping and
outdoor recreation, and college union
recreation. Each of the panel members
spoke about areas of recreation in which
he or she had had previous professional
experience.

In the afternoon, the scene shifted to
the university’s Outdoor Education Cen-
ter at Bradford Woods where the parti-
cipants enjoyed a delicious cookout
with Indiana faculty and graduate stud-

 

ents. They were then taken on a tour of
the various camps located at Bradford
Woods and the American Camping As-
sociation headquarters also located on
the Bradford Woods property. Con:
ducting the tour was Reynold Carlson,
chairman of the department of recrea-
tion.

All persons in attendance at “Spot-
light on Recreation Leadership Day”
were given packets containing brochures
about the recreation profession and
about Indiana University. All partici-
pants were registered; plans call for a
periodic follow-up to be sure that these
young people are kept well aware of the
opportunities that are available to them
in the field of recreation.

The college students majoring in rec-
reation are in an ideal position to aid
in the recruitment of competent young
people for the profession. They are
close both to the profession through
their classwork, field work, and associa-
tions with faculty and professionals,and
to the high-school students, since the
majority of them are only a few years
from this category themselves.

Let’s have more student organiza-
tions take part in career days and let’s
have more cooperative venturesbetween
the colleges and the professionals in the
field to help spread knowledge about the

opportunities in recreation careers.

 

HIGH - SCHOOL '
STUDENTS

 

Theodore M. Kavadas

ARE CR E A T I o N
training insti-
tute for high-school
juniors and sen-
iors, which pro-
vides an introduc-
tion and training
in different areas of

recreation leadership, is set up each
spring by the Glenview, Illinois, Park

RECREATION

District. The institute was conceived
by Richard E. Johns, park district su-
perintendent. Some years ago, he con-
ducted an informal leadership work-
shop at his church for any interested
youths.

Glenview’s first institute was planned
for April 1963, during spring vacation
so that more students would have the
opportunity to attend. Letters and ap-
plication forms were sent to all local
schools, churches, and youth-serving
agencies. This was followed up with
personal visits to these agencies to ex-
plain the program in more detail. Twen-
ty-two high-school students registered
for the first institute. This year, forty-
nine students registered.

The institute is divided into seven
major areas: athletics and games, dra-
ma, music, social recreation, child be-
havior, and job application and inter-
viewing. All topics are taught by mem-
bers of the park district recreation staff.
A variety of printed material on each
topic taught is given to each student for
further use.

An optional certification test is given
to the students at the end of the training
period. This written test covers the
material discussed in the seven topic
areas. Those who pass are awarded a
certificate of achievement for comple-

tion of study in recreation leadership
training.

The training institute also correlates
with the district’s internship program.
Each year, the district employs seven
high-school graduating seniors to work
on various playgrounds with regular
playground leaders. The interns assist
the leaders in leading recreation activi-
ties at playgrounds that have higher
registration than normal playgrounds.
These interns are paid $25.00 a week;
however, with satisfactory work they
are offered regular playground posi-
tions for the next four years. About a
quarter of the students who attend the
leadership institute apply for the intern
positions. The park district usually ends
up with seven good interns each year
for its playgrounds.

The reaction of the students attend-
ing the institute the past two years has
been extremely favorable. Several of
the students have enrolled at Midwest
colleges to major in recreation. Many
of the students who attend the institute
work with youth groups and camps as
volunteers throughout the year. They
have expressed how very useful the
training has been to them.

MR. KAVADAS is supervisor of recreation
for the Clenview, Illinois, Park District.

 

 

Healthful fun for every age group!

 

  

DIMCO SHUFFLEBOARD

Children. young people, adults . . .
Dimco Shuttleboard {Or excitement. relaxation and
wholesome exercisel Court diagram can easily be laid.
indoors or outdoors. Famous Dimco equipment. in .
low-price "Sunlite" or premium-quality "Free-Glide"
lines. comes in sturdy Regulation Sets or Junior Sets
(2/3 regulation size).

everyone enioys

FREE . . . Court layout plans. game rules, catalog of
Dingo shuffleboard sets. Write today to: ‘

DIMCO-GRAY, 205 E. Sixth St... Dayton 2, Ohio

7% M: an Nativity Scenes

Make early plans for a Community Interest Activity with a life-
size NATIVITY—many attractive arrangements available for large
or small Grounds. WRITE FOR FREE BROCHURE & INFORMATION

DOUGLAS L. WELLS - 4546 SIMS COURT - TUCKER. GA.

 

JUNE, 1964

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

IT’S SENSATIONAL!

PRECISION-
PAK ‘

THE NEW
and BETTER

Personally Tested and
Endorsed by HOWARD HILL

%=====—===>

FUR SCHUULS, CAMPS, CLUBS,
COLLEGES, PARK DISTRICTS

Those in the know are switching to PRE-
CISION-PAK. This new, revolutionary, square
archery target gives you 27% more shoot-
ing area, and is less expensive than any
comparable round target. Proved in tough
national tournaments. Made of highly com-
presSed “Curlex” wood fibres, it is self-
healing. Square shape is easy to stack,
stand up, carry, store, or ship. Available in
seven standard sizes. Special size targets
for automatic archery lanes, or indoor

ranges, available. Also specially designed
wrre stands and carts for all Sizes.

NATION-WIDE DISTRIBUTION from 30 dif-
ferent locations throughout the U.S. For
complete information and prices write:

Western Aspen Division. American Excelsior
Corp. 900 Avenue H. East, Arlington, Texas

Western Wood Division. American Excelsior
Corp. 8320 Cranford Street, Pico Rivera,

California

American --Excelsior Corporation. 1000 N.
Halsted Street. Chicago, Illinois 60622

 

319

IIIIIII II"...
I'll? I I ‘IIII
‘I.’ J In ‘I.’

 DIGEST

 

 

WILDLIFE WHITTLING

John F. Clark

THE MAIN REQUIREMENTS for whittling are patience and
a sharp blade. Then, of course, you have to have some
knowledge of the animals you are carving. Most outdoor
magazines can provide guides in the way of photos and
drawings of subject animals, both in color and black-and-
white. Or you can go out into the woods and the fields and
see the real thing for yourself.

A good pocketknife is the basic tool; one with two blades,
one long and narrow, one short and stubby. Keep their
edges sharp as a razor with frequent stoning and stropping.
Although the knife is most important, I use several other
tools and materials that help: a set of small gouges in “U”
and “V” shapes and a few straight blades, one or two 3-
corner files, a fine wood rasp, small rattail file, single-edge
checkering tool with a curved end, sandpaper in various
grades and rolled up into small cylinders. All these are
small things, easy to obtain but quite important.

White pine and cedar are both easy woods to work, but
you can pick up all the odds and ends of lumber you need
from a local lumber yard. Trace pictures or make sketches
the size you want, to use as patterns, outlining with a double
line, and glue to cardboard. Cut out on the heavy black out-
line with a razor blade. The light inner lines on the pattern
show you what the finished carving will look like ( see illus-
{ration}.

In roughing out your animal cut on the heavy lines be-
cause it’s best to have a little extra wood to work with.
Select a piece of knot-free wood about 1% inches thick, 21/;
inches wide, and 4% inches high. The grain should run
with the long dimension. Next, draw in a base line about
an inch from the bottom. Draw it completely around the
block. Then take the side view of the animal and lay it on
the block with the feet on the base line. Trace around it
with a pencil. Then cut to this outline with a jigsaw if one
is available ( or start whittling). A power saw is best be-
cause you can keep your cut square. Your block now looks
somewhat like Figure Two. To saw out the piece under the
belly, drill a small hole through it, disconnect the saw blade,
run it through the hole and connect it up again.

Take the section of wood that you sawed off the front and
“spot” glue it temporarily back into place. Then trace
around the front view as shown in Figure Three. Saw this
out and it will look somewhat like Figure Four. As a matter
of fact you could have used the back view in the same way.
No matter which view you use be extra careful in sawing
those openings between the legs.

Since our figure is attached to a base, it would be diIIicult

Continued on Page 324
320

THE LIGHT INNER LINES :3th pattern
Show you mm— the Hnished cwmq will

be like

 

RECREATION

Agfv—rgyngf‘TjY—‘fr—V‘T rr v r rr

NEW PUBLICATIONS

 

God’s Own Junkyard, Peter Blake, pression. There is an excellent biblio-

Holt, Rinehart and Winston, 383 Madi-
son Avenue, New York 10017. Pp.
142, illustrated. $4.50 (Paper, $2.95).

Is IT TOO LATE for us to learn to see
again? This is one of the questions
posed in this excellent book by Peter
Blake, architect, author, and managing
editor of Architectural Forum. He pre-
sents a searing indictment, largely by
means of contrasting pictures that drive
home his story, and with several devas-
tating chapters on the shameful indif-
ference of the American public to the
current “uglification” of our land.

He says: “This book is not written
in anger. It is written in furyu—though
not, I trust, in blind fury. It is a deliber-
ate attack upon all of those who have
already befouled a large portion of this
country for private gain, and are en-
gaged in befouling the rest. Some of
these latterday vandals are well-organ-
ized and well financed—such as the bill-
board industry . . . Some of our latter-
day vandals are “little people,” trades-
man and shepkeepers trying to make a
living, people without ties to the land-
scape or townscape in which they live,
people Whose eyes have lost the art of
seeing. And still others among our lat-
ter-day vandals are all the rest of us,
all of us who no longer care, or no
longer care enough.”

On a recent ZOO-mile trip through
New Jersey and Pennsylvania, this re-
viewer counted ten automobile junk-
yards. They were so large that they
dominated the landscape and, in sev-
eral instances, wooded lands had been
cleared of trees to make room for more.
In some, the cars were piled on top of
each other until rusting junk was reach-
ing toward the skies. What of this?
What are we going to do about it?
What is our responsibility as citizens,
as public servants? What alternatives
can we suggest to our neighbors, to our
communities, to our fellow citizens?

This book needs to be read, and
shared, by all Americans who are con-
cerned with the welfare of this country.
It should lead to spirited leadership and
citizen action i—D. D.

Children Are Artists, Daniel M.
Mendelowitz. Stanford University Press,
Stanford, California. Pp. 140. $3.75.

Professor Mandelowitz has given art
teachers and workers with children a
book full of ideas about creative teach-
ing. He takes us from the scribble age
through the problems of adolescent ex-

JUNE, 1964..

graphy of other very helpful books on
the subject. This book gives recreation
leaders and teachers a great deal of in-
formation to help them do a creative
piece of work with children and adults
and a better insight as to how to moti-
vate them in proper age brackets.
Quoting from the book, “The habit
of using artistic expression as an emo-
tional cathartic, a way of relieving
tensions and resolving difficulties, if
established in early childhood, can
contribute greatly toward an emotion-

ally relaxed and healthy personality.
The child can ‘play it out’ by paintingr
it out and. having ‘painted it out,’ will
find emotional release. A number of
psychologists and psychiatrists have
testified to the effectiveness of drawing,
painting, and modeling as an element
in psychiatric therapy. In cases of se-
vere maladjustment, the artistic activi-
ties are part of a complex psychiatric
treatment where they not only provide
great emotional release but serve the
valuable additional purpose of reveal-
ing, through the content of the art work,
the areas of conflict and concern.”

This book, first published in 1953,

has been very useful to me over a
decade of teaching creative art. I am
happy to see this new edition.—-—Mary
B. Cummings.

TheTechniques of Competitive Swim-
ming, Bela Raiki. Sportshelf, P.O. Box
634, New Rochelle, New York. Pp 88,
plus twelve triplefold illustrated
pages. $5.75.

WRITTEN by the world-famous Hun-
garian swimming coach, a mem-
ber of the International Technical
Swimming Committee, this book con-
tains some of the most fabulous and
effective underwater photographs ever
published—528 of them. Supplement-
ing an excellent text on the techniques
of the various strokes important in swim-
ming, a series of pictures clarifies the
steps in each as seen from underwater.
The last series of plates shows the
famous swimming strokes of outstand-
ing personalities in the swimming
world, each with explanatory text, illus-
trating the great effect that the best
swimmers have had on the development
of technique. Included here are Gyorgy
Tumpek’s dolphin stroke, Eva Novak’s
breast stroke, Eva Szekely’s butterfly
stroke, Kato Szoke’s crawl, and others.

Anyone who takes his swimming seri-
ously, even though he does not go in for

racing, or anyone who does any swim-
ming teaching or supervision, would
be foolish, indeed, to miss this book.
It represents not only a real achieve-
ment but is a reliable manual and, most
of all, a valuable contribution to swim-
ming literature.

The Best of Origami, Samuel Rand-
lett. E. P. Dutton, 201 Park Avenue
South, New York 10003. Pp. 185, il-
lustrated. $5.95.

THE AUTHOR is well-known for his
classic The Art of Origami. This
new volume brings together sixty-seven
new models, created by fourteen of the
outstanding experts and not available
elsewhere. The projects are described
clearly, and each contains line sketches
to illustrate each step. In addition, an
attractive photograph of the finished
project, in a suitable setting, is included.
Some of the models sound impossible
—Whistler’s Mother, complete with
rocking chair, a Thurber dog, an opera
singer. However, all are prepared from
conventional base folds—the fish base,
bird base, frog base, et cetera.

One of the most fascinating sections
of this book contains bibliographical
sketches of the contributors. Evidently,
interest in Origami, like the rain, “fall-
eth where it listeth.” Here are accounts
of Samuel Randlett himself, a thirty-
four-year-old piano teacher; of Adolfo
Cetcado. a master entertainer who has
been a knife thrower, a bull-whip ex-
pert, a stage hypnotist and magician;
of Jack Skillman, a civil-service em-
ploye of the Chicago Board of Educa-
tion; of E. D. Sullivan, a laboratory
supervisor of Boeing Company in Seat-
tle; of John Nordquist, assistant at the
Seismological Laboratory in Pasadena;
of Harold Weiss, chief press officer for
the U.S. Department of Commerce: of
George Rhoads, artist; and Robert
Harbin, England’s foremost profes-
sional magician—to name only about
half of the men and women in various
walks‘ of life, of widely variant ages
and backgrounds. who find in paper-
folding a challenging, relaxing, creative

hobby.—-—V.M.

Folding Paper Toys, Shari_l.ewis and
Lillian Oppenheimer. Stein and Day,
7 East 48th Street, New York 10017.
Pp. 93, illustrated. $3.95.

Everybody knows Shari Lewis and
her famous puppets, especially Lamb
Chop. Everyone who knows anything

321

about Origami, the Japanese art of
paper folding knows Lillian Oppen-
heimer, who, almost singlehandedly, is
responsible for its popularity in Ameri-
ca, and who certainly is the most ex-
perienced teacher of that art.

The paperfolding projects here are
very simple ones, designed mostly for
surprise and entertainment value. They
include several varieties of boats, some
noisemakers (including the snapper, of
which the soda-fountain straw variety
is a cousin), some paperfold finger
puppets, and a number of paper projects
resulting in doll furniture.

Adviser’s Guide to Horizon Club, pp.

57, $.75,- Handbook for Guardians of
Camp Fire Girls, pp. 133, $1.00; and
Handbook for Junior Hi Camp Fire
Guardians, pp. 128, $1.00. All avail-
able from Camp Fire Girls, |nc., Supply

Division, 450 Avenue of the Americas,
New York 10011.

Material dealing with programs for
girls is all too limited in quantity and
quality, and too often girls themselves
are neglected in agency or department
programs. These three manuals, de-
signed for use by leaders working with
Camp Fire girls from nine through
high-school age are the results of new
research into programs for girls. All
are newly revised, informal, and written
with enthusiasm.

NEW CRAFT BOOKS

CREATIVE PRINTMAKING, Michael F. An-
drews. Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs,
New Jersey. Pp. 159. $7.95.

WAX SCULPTURING, Mickey Klar Marks.
Dial Junior Books, 461 Park Avenue
South, New York 10016. Pp. 61. $2.95.

THE ART OF THE NORTH AMERICAN
INDIAN, Shirley Glubok. Harper and
Row, 49 East 33rd Street, New York
10016. Unpaged. $3.95.

THESE THREE titles are noteworthy in
the rash of craft books coming out
this season for camp and playground
leaders, hobbyists, summer vacationers,
teachers, among others. In the first at-
tractive book, the art of printmaking
is simplified and brought within the
reach of all age levels. For example,
children find the stencil printing proc-
ess fascinating. Other processes cov-
ered are relief printing, photographic
printing, planographic and intaglio
printing—the most complex of all. 11-
lustrations of more than two hundred
prints« —the work of children and adults
1 --point up the creative possibilities of
all five and make the book a lively one.

The second book deals with methods
of working in wax, as many famous

322

sculptors have done. The substance is
soft, malleable, and permits designs of
great detail. The beginner finds it clean,
easy, and inexpensive. Step-by-step di-
rections and excellent photographs
show what can be accomplished with
only beeswax, a sharpened pencil, can-
dle, spoon, and knife.

In the last and most beautiful book
of the three, designs and products are
reproduced in a striking layout inter-
spersed with concise, descriptive text.
An invaluable resource book for designs
or all sorts of craft products, motifs
for weaving, costumers, historians and
the like. Although Miss Glubok is
known as a leading interpreter of the
great art traditions of the world for
young readers, adult artists and art en-
thusiasts will enjoy this as well.

FOR SUMMER CAMPERS

CAMPGROUND ATLAS, James A. Bier and
Henry A. Raup. Alpine Geographical
Press, Box 246, Station A, Champaign,
Illinois 61824. Pp. 186. Paper, $3.00.

STARGAZING, A Group Leader’s Guide,
Janet Nickelsburg. Burgess Publishing
Company, 426 South Sixth Street, M in-
neapolis 15. Pp. 98. $3.85.

EXPLORINC OUR NATIONAL WILDLIFE
REFUGES (2nd ed. ), Deverenx Butcher.
Houghton Miflin Company, 2 Park
Street, Boston 7. Pp. 340. $6.50.

The Campground Atlas carries a map
of every state, with campgrounds and
highways—federal and state—marked.
An alphabetical list of campgrounds
for each state, keyed to its map, gives
additional information regarding site,

 

The litterbug Blight even scares the trees—
let’s all stop littering, and scenes like tinsel

facilities, recreation available. Trailer
sites are included.

The second, a beautifully planned
and written book, includes the sort of
information needed to answer children’s
questions about the stars—around the
campfire, or under the evening skies.
It contains not only astronomical facts,
but the myths and legends of the con-
stellations, through which the children
can discover the grandeur of the heav-
ens. Says the author, “While we are
learning to call the constellations by
name, and to associate them with the
myths, we are at the same time coming
to look with modern eyes upon the great
glories of the skies.” The last two
chapters are devoted to teaching aids
for the leader, and a pocket in the
binding of the book holds separate
maps. Miss Nicklesburg is well known
in camping fields for her books on
camping subjects.

Exploring Our National Wildlife
Refuges, as can be expected, carries a
collection of magnificent wildlife pho-
tographs, ranging from a tiny white-
footed mouse to the mighty Kenai
moose. This is a standard book about
our wildlife refuges and answers in—
numerable questions about them. The
author is a familiar, national leader in
nature protection and known for his
beautiful books on the subject. This
can be a marvellous addition to the li-
brary of any nature lover, recreation
center, camp, or armchair traveler.

IN BRIEF

How AND WHERE TO VACATION WITH
CHILDREN —AND ENJOY IT , Edwin
Keister, Jr. Doubleday and Company,
575 Madison Avenue, New York 10022.

Pp. 233. Paper, $1.95. Mr. Keister gives

us twelve chapters of sensible advice
and practical suggestions on vacation-
ing with children. How to make a station
wagon out of your car, what to take,
how to pick a restaurant (with some
specific ones), how to cope with car-
sickness, find a doctor if you need one,
where to find camp sites. “Where to go”
is organized in mveral ways—by states
(rather sketchin since the U.S. covers
a great deal of territory), by specific
facilities such as zoos, frontier towns,
animal lands, resorts, unior museums,
et cetera.

NATIONAL CAMP DIRECTORS GUIDE,
Annual Edition 1964. Alden Getz, Pub-
lisher, 370 Lexington Avenue, New
York 10017. Pp. 136. Paper, $1.25. Half
of this annual is a bright pink Buying
Guide, divided into four sections—can—
teen, food, services, and supplies. In
these pink pages are the names and
addresses fOr sources of everything.
You name it—it’s there! The first half

RECREATION

is composed of information about new
films, new trends, and new products.
One of the articles, camper-illustrated
and camper-written, “Camp Is Fun,” is
worth the cost of the guide.

GRAPHIC ARTS CRAFTS, Desire Kaufi-
mann. D. Van. N ostrand Company, 120
Alexander Street, Princeton, New Jer-
sey. Pp. 260. $5.95. This book, an en-
larged second edition, brought up-to-
date in all the graphic arts, is a very
sound, practical text for those wishing
to work by themselves. It is written in
simple style, with clean and basic funda-
mentals in all the iields of the graphic
arts. It is as complete a book as I have
seen on the subject and crafts. The pho-
tographs and drawings are very instruc-
tive—M. B. Cummings.

Handweaver

8,. Craftsman

 

 

The quarterly magazine with new
weaving ideas in each issue

Write for brochure

listing previous issues of special interest
far weaving classes in recreation praiects.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

'1 yr. ........... .. $5 2 yrs .............. .. $9
3 yrs .............. "$12

Pan-American & Foreign rates 31 a year
extra. Single copies $1.35.

Handweaver 8. Craftsman

Dept. R

246 FIFTH AVENUE NEW YORK 10001

New BASEBALL BASE ANCHORS
to replace old loop rod spikes
CAN BE USED ON ANY STRAP BASES

SAFETY FEATURES:

0 No straps that injure
ankles

- No protruding metal
loops

EASY TO INSTALL:

- Simply set the anchor
spike solidly and per-

manently into the  'l  .  1
ground 12”, Hush with   ' 1 l 

 

the ground. Then
place the fitted tap
into the anchor spike.

TIME SAVING:

- Remove and set the
base in a jiffy.

o No lacing of straps
thru the loops.

0 No bent spikes —
no broken bats.

ARROW SYSTEM
300 Canal Street 0 Lawrence, Mass. 01842
Tel. 685-5109

ANCHORS ONLY
$16.00 per set of 3

 

JUNE, 1964

 

BOOKS & PAMPHLETS RECEIVED

 

CAMPING, NATURE, OUTDOORS

Animal Adventures in Lands of Ice and Snow,
Wm. Bridges. Whitman Publ., 1220 Mound
Ave., Racine, Wis. Pp. 91. $1.00.

About Nuts,* Solveig Paulson Russell. Melmont
Publ., Jackson Blvd. (3' Racine Ave., Chicago 7.

Pp. 31. $2.50.

Artificial Aids in Mountaineering, Geoffrey Sut-
ton. Sportshelf, P. 0. Box 634, New Rochelle,
N. Y. Pp. 64. $3.00.

Action for Outdoor Recreation for America. Citi-
zens Committee for the ORRRC Report, 1001
Connecticut Ave., Washington, D. C. 20036.
Pp. 32. $.25.

Babby Learns about Butterflies,* Marjorie Wack»
erbarth. T. S. Denison, 321 5th Ave. 5., Min»
neapolis 15. Pp. 67. $3.00.

Camp Counselor's Book, The, Mary L. Northway
and Barry G. Lowes, Editors. Burgess Publ.,
g§6 S. 6th St., Minneapolis 15. Pp. 146. Paper,

.75.

Campground Atlas of the United States and Can-
ada (rev. 3rd ed.). Alpine Geographical Press,
Box 246, Station A, Champaign, 111. 61824.
Pp. 186. Paper, $3.00.

Camping Family's Guide to Campsites (rev. ed.).
C. S. Hammond, Maplewood, N. J. Pp. 383.
Paper, $2.50.

Compact Book of Outdoor Photography, The, Ray
Ovington, Editor. J. Lowell Pratt, 15 E. 48th
St., New York 10017. Pp. 96. Paper, $.75.

Cues for Church Camping. Geneva Press, Wither-

spoon Bldg., Philadelphia 7. Pp. 80. Paper,

$1.00.

Down the Mountain: A Book about the Ever-
Changing Soil, Margaret Farrington Bartlett.
Wm. R. Scott, 8 W. 13th St., New York 10011.
Pp. 63. $3.25.

Exploring Our Notional Wildlife Refuges (rev.
2nd ed), Devereux Butcher. Houghton Mif-
flin, 2 Park St., Boston 7. Pp. 340. $6.50.

First Book of Weeds, The, Barbara L. Beck.
Franklin Watts, 575 Lexington Ave., New York
10022. Pp. 66. $2.50.

Fossils in America, Jay Ellis Ransom. Harper ('1
ggu9r,549 E. 33rd St., New York 10016. Pp. 402.

Friendly Forests, The, Alma Chesnut Moore. Vik-
ing Press, 625 Madison Ave., New York 10022.
Pp. 107. $3.50.

Fur and Fury: The Talented Weasel Family, C. B.
Colby. Duell, Sloan and Pearce, 60 E. 42nd St.,
New York 10017. Pp. 127. $3.50.

Gardener's Year, The, Karel Capek. Dover Publ.,
180 Varick St., New York 10014. Pp. 110. Pa-
per, $1.00.

Grand Canyon, Bryce Canyon, Frances Wood. Fol-
lett Publ., 1010 Washington Blvd., Chicago 7.
Unpaged. $2.10.

Handbook of Auto Camping, The (2nd ed.),

George and Iris Wells. Harper {'2 Row, 49 E.
33rd St., New York 10016. Pp. 309. $4.95.

Hand-Taming Wild Birds, Alfred C. Martin. Bond
Wheelwright Co., Porter's Landing, Freeport,
Me. Pp. 144. $4.95.

Land and Wildlife of Eurasia, The, Francois Bour-
liere. Time, Inc., Rockefeller Center, New

York 10020. Pp. 198. $3.95.

Life Histories of North American Diving Birds,
Arthur Cleveland Bent. Dover Publ., 180. Varick
St., New York 10014. Pp. 239. Paper, $2.75.

Lightweight Equipment for Hiking, Camping, and
Mountaineering (11th ed.), Potomac Appa-
lachian Trail Club, 1916 Sunderland P|., N.W.,
Washington 6. Pp. 70. $.60.

Modern Marina, The, Natl. Assoc. of Engine 6
Boat Mfg., 420 Lexington Ave., New York
10017. Pp. 72. Spiralbound, $2.00.

Mountains and Mountaineering, The 80 '5 Book
of, E. C. and M. E. Pyatt. Ro Publ., 3 E. 74th
St., New York 10021. Pp. 14 . $3.95.

Notionol Parks in California, Dorr Yeager. Lane
Book Co., Menlo Park, Calif. Pp. 96. Paper,

$1.95.

Opportunities in Recreation and Outdoor Edu-
cation, Jay B. Nash, Vocational Guidance
Manuals, 800 2nd Ave., New York 10017. Pp.
112. Paper, $1.45.

 

(,1

THE PERFECT PACKAGED SHELTER!

   
 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

Be Sure to Shop at

5....5

ARTS and CRAFTS
and SAVE

LEADERS 0f 1HE NEWEST

' Offering our BRAND NEW, EN-

W~““‘~‘-~

LARGED 1964 CATALOG, chock

full of NEW MATERIALS for your
Recreation Program and featur—

ing some-day service. Send for
your copy now!

Sands

ARTS AND CRAFTS
COLCHESTER 10, CONN.

 

    

  :1? 1? r

GET HE GUYS
T0 VOCALIZE

WITH
NATIONAL’S DANDY

“SING-ALONG SONG SLIDES"!!

Meetings that begin or end with sing-along sessions
are successiul meetings! Watch your gang warm up
fast with a lusty group sing! Send tor National's
free catalog of all-time hit songs. available in slide
form for as low as 50¢ a tune!
Need a projector? Let us know .
real dough! Write today to;

NATIONAL STUDIOS. INC.
42 West 48th street. N. Y. 36. N. Y.

RYAN‘S H. & R.

DRY LINE MARKERS

ALSO powrn amvm aurounr
From 20:: to 100# Capacity

“ACE MODEL SHOWN"

Force Feed — Instant
ShutoE — 50 lbs. Ca-

pacity.
Shaker in Hopper for
Constant 'Flow.

Adiustablo Control on
Handle.

SAVES TIME AND

. MATERIAL
Send to Dept. R for booklet on other 4 models.
H. 8: R. MFG. CO., LOS ANGELES 34. CALIF.

. . we'll save you

 

 
 
 
  

 

323

Our Small Notive Animols (rev. ed.), Robert
Snedigar. Dover Publ., 180 Vorick St., New
York 10014. Pp. 248. Poper, $1.75.

Outermost House, The: A Year of Life on the
Great Beoch of Cape Cod, Henry Beston. Vik-
ing Press, 625 Madison Ave., New York 10022.

Pp. 222. Paper, $1.45.

Photographing Nature, Dovid Linton. Noturol
History Press, 575 Madison Ave., New York
10022. Pp. 262. Paper, $1.95.

Rock Climbing, Peter Nock. SDOrtshelf. P. O. Box
635, New Rochelle, N. Y. Pp. 69. $1.50.

Sense of Wonder, A {selections on noture), Doro-
thy Shuttlesworth. Doubleday, 575 Madison
Ave., New York 10022. Pp. 252. $3.50.

Star Names, Their Lore and Meaning, Richard
Hinckley Allen. Dover Publ., 180 VOI’ICk St.,

New York 10014. Pp. 554. Paper, $2.35.

Story at Gardening, The, Richardson Wright.
Dover Publ., 180 Vorick St., New York 10014.
Pp. 474. $2.00.

Teaching in the Outdoors, Donald R. and Wm. M.
Hommermon. Burgess Publ., 426 S. 6th St.,

Minneopolis 15. Pp. 120. Paper, $3.25.

Twentieth Century Recreation. American Assoc.
for Health, Physical Education ond Recreation,
1201 16th St., N.W., WashingtOn, D. C. 20036.
Pp. 74. P0per, $1.50.

Western Bird Guide for Youth, Ernest S. Booth.
$03ut9door Pictures, Escondido, Calif. Pp. 62.
. 5.

Western Campsite Directory, 1964. Lone Book
Co., Menlo Park, Calif. Pp. 112. Paper, $1.95.

Wildlife in America, Peter Matthiessen. Viking
Press, 625 Modison Ave., New York 10022.
Pp. 304. Paper, $1.95.

Woods, The, McLeod Volz and Mary Mosteller.
Graphic Arts of Morin, Box 817, Sousolito,

Colif. Unpaged. P0per, $1.95.

SPORTS, PHYSICAL EDUCATION, FITNESS

ABC’s of Water Safety, The. Chonning L. Bete,
Greenfield, Moss. 01301. Pp. 15. $.25.

AII But My Life Stirling Moss. E. P. Dutton, 201
Park Ave. 5., New York 10003. Pp. 239. $4.50.

Analysis of Human Motion I2nd ed.), M. Glodys

Scott. Appleton-Century-Crofts, 34 W. 33rd
St., New York 10001. Pp. 443. $6.00.

Aquatics Guide, July I963-July 1965. Amer. Assn.
for Health, Physical Education 6' Recreation,
1201 16th St., N.W., Washington 36, D.C. Pp.
160. Paper, $1.00.

Athletics, G. F. D. Peorson, Ed. Thos. Nelson, 18
E. 4Ist St., New York 10017. Pp 402. $8.50.

Basic Scuba t2nd ed.), Fred M. Roberts. D. Van
Nostrond, 120 Alexander St., PrincetOn, N. J.
Pp. 488. $12.50.

Body Building for Sportsmen and Athletes, Lou
Rovelle. Sportshelf, P.O. Box 634, New Rochelle,
N. Y. Pp. 143. P0per, $1.75.

Canoeing A-Z, Ruth Elvedt. Burgess Publ., 426
 St., Minneapolis 15. Pp. 71. Spiralbound,

Compact Book of Boating, The, Jack Seville, Edi-
tor. J. Lowetl Prott, 1 7 E. 57th St., New York
10022. Pp. 96. P0per, $.75.

Compact Book of Fresh Water Fishing, The, Bob
Zwirz, EditOr. J. Lowell Pratt, 137 E. 57th St.,
New York 10022. Pp. 96. P0per, $.75.

Compact Book of Hunting, The, Jim Rikhoff, Edi-
tor. J. Lowell Prott, 137 E. 57th St., New York
10022. Pp. 93. Paper, $.75.

Complete Handbook of Junior Bowling, The, Frank
Clause ond Patty McBride. Fleet Publ. 230
Park Ave., New York 10017. Pp. 122. $3.95.

Danger in Centerfield, Willie Mays and Jeff Har-
ris. J. Lowell Pratt, 15 E. 48th St., New York

10017. Pp. 151. $.50.

Directing High School Athletics, _
Grieve. Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs,

Pp. 301 . $5.35.

Dive: The Complete Book of Skin Diving (rev.),
Rick ond Borboro Corrier. Wilfred Funk, 360
Lexington Ave., New York 10017. Pp. 296.

$5.95.

Elements of Riding, R. S. Summerhoys. Stephen

Greene Press, Brottleboro, Vt. Pp. 138. $4.95.

Fencing, Roger Crosnier, Editor. Sportshelf, P.O.

30x2 634, New Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 40. P0per,
1. 5.

Figure Forming for Ladies, A| Murroy. SDOrtshelf,
gioiSBox 634, New Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 24. P0per,

Figure Skating, Solly Linsay. Rond McNolly, 8255
Central Park Ave., Skokie, |||. Pp. 96. $2.95.

Gillette Book of Cricket and Football, The, Gordon
Ross, Editor. Sportshelf, P.O. Box 634, New
Rochelle, N.Y. Pp. 207. $3.75.

Horseback Riding for Boys and Girls, Beverly ond
Morgoret Hohon. Follett Publ., 1010 W. Wash—
ington Blvd., Chicago 7. Pp. 96. $1.00.

How to Improve Your Skiing, Poul Volar and
Jimmy Johnson. Athletic Institute, Merchandise
Mort, Room 805, Chicogo 60654. Pp. 72. $.50.

How to Improve Your Track and Field for Ele-
mentary School Children and Junior High Girls,
Dr. Elizabeth C. Lone, Donna Obrecht, ond
Phoebe Wienke. Athletic Institute, Merchandise
Mart, Room 805. Chicago 60654. Pp. 39. $.50.

Andrew W.
N.J.

TRAVEL

Adventures in Travel, J. Alvin Dru'yor. Press Publ.,
Proirie du Chien, Wis. Unpaged. Poper, $1.00.

Canada, Brian Moore. Time, Inc., Rockefeller
Center, New York 10020. Pp. 160. $2.95.

China, Loren Fesler. Time, Inc., Rockefeller Cen-
ter, New York 10020. Pp. 160. $2.95.

Enioy Puerta Rica, Carmen Chieso DePerez. Von-
toge, 120 W. 31st St., New York 10001. Pp.
316. $4.95.

Exploration of Africa, Thomas Sterling. Meredith,
$31965 Locust St., Des Moines, Iowo. Pp. 153.

Fares, Please! John Anderson Miller. Dover Publ.,
180 Vorick St., New York 10014. Pp. 204. P0-
per, $1.50.

Guide to Traveling Around the World by Passen-
ger-Carrying Freighters, The, 1964. Horion
Publ., Greenlawn, N.Y. Pp. 114. Paper, $1.00.

Hillsway Travel Guide (10th ed.), Roland L. Hill.
Hillsway, P.0. Box 517, St. Cloud, Minn. Pp.
511. Paper, $2.95.

Lands of the Western Hemisphere. Sister Mory
Veronica. Doubleday, 575 Madison Ave., New
York 10022. Pp. 384. $5.60.

Motoring Holidays in France. Alison Loscelles.
Sportshelf. PO. Box 634, New Rachelle, N.Y.
Pp. 176. $4.50.

Motoring Holidays in Spain, Alison Loscelles.
Sportshelf. P.O. Box 634, New Rochelle, N. Y.
Pp. 175. $4.50.

Motoring Holidays in Switzerland, Alison Las-
celles. SpOrtshelf, P.O. Box 634, New Rochelle,
N. Y. Pp. 135. $4.50.

Seasonal Feasts and Festivals, E. 0. James. Barnes
6' Noble, 105 5th Ave., New York 10003. Pp.
336. Paper, $1.75.

Small Boat to Bavaria, Roger Pilkington. St. Mor-
tin's Press, 175 5th Ave., New York 10010. Pp.
217. $5.95.

Trailering America's Highways and Byways (Vol.
2, The Eost) , Richard L. Hoyes. Trail-R-Club of

America, Box 1376, Beverly Hills, Calif. Pp.
223. Paper, $3.00.

Vacotion Time Book, The, Simon Dresner. Rond
McNolly, PO. Box 7600, Chicogo 80. Pp. 112.
Paper, $1 .50.

Washington Guide Book, The, John and Katharine
Walker. Dell Publ., 750 3rd Ave., New York

10017. Pp. 432. Paper, $.95.

West Indies, The, Carter Harman. Time, Inc.,
ggcgkefeller Center, New York 10020. Pp. 159.
. 5. ”

Work, Study, Travel Abroad (16th ed.). U.S.
Student Assn., 265 Modison Ave., New York
10016. Pp. 152. P0per, $1.00.

2000 Years of Space Travel, Russell Freedman.
Holiday House, 8 W. 13th St., New York 10011.
Pp. 256. $3.95.

Your Guide to 32 European Cities, J. H. N. Moson.
Bornes Cr Noble, 105 5th Ave., New YOrk
10003. Pp. 132. P0per, $.95.

 

' MAGAZINE ARTICLES

 

ADULT LEADERSHIP, March 1964
The Aged: A Challenge to Education,

Thomos E. Linton and Donold L. Spence.
Internships in Adult Education, Alon B. Knox.
A Community Advisory Council on Family Life

in Action, Joseph Wagner.

. April 1964
Library Aide Volunteers, Elaine B. Sigman.

Participant Functions (conference plonningl,
Alfred W. Storey.

ARTS AND ACTIVITIES, March 1964
Special Ceramics Issue.

FUTURE ond JCI WORLD, April 1964
"The Sun Hos Burst Through” {mental retarda-
tion), Mrs. Sorgent Shriver.
Jaycees Provide Homes for Retired Persons.
America’s Fitness Leaders—1963.

HANDWEAVER AND CRAFTSMEN, Spring 1964
Christmas Cards, Doris Clement.

LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE, April 1964
St. Louis Riverfront Revisited, 1933-1964,
Ruth Layton.
Canton Collaboration: The Central Plaza Re-
newal, Cyril B. Paumier.
Houston Collaboration: Humble High-Rise,

Robert B. Walker.
Dallas' Green Bockbane, Gene W. Newmon.

MUSIC JOURNAL, April 1964
Do We Appreciate Our Band Heritage?
Chester E. Whiting.

PLANNING AND CIVIC COMMENT, March 1964
The Conservation Challenge of the Sixties,

Stewart L. Udall.
Our Outdoor Heritooe, Louronce S. Rockefeller.
Fight for Our Cities, Terry Sanford.
Cities Are for Living In, Fred Smith.
Tocks Island National Recreation Area.
Billboard Jungles, Howord W. Baker.

SPORTS ILLUSTRATED, April 20, 1964
A Child's Guide to Sports in New York.
Confessions of a Stoop Boll Chompian,

Gilbert Rogin.

, May 5, 1964
Everyone for Backgammon, Edwin Shrake.
Just Out from Under a Rock (noture lore) ,
John Terres.

TODAY’S HEALTH, May 1964
Try Northern California for Fishing at Its Best,

Maury Kane.
Why Do We Torture Our Feet? Sheldon A. Mix.

 

Wildlife Whittling

Continued from Page 320

 

to saw out a top view. Instead, pencil in the outline roughly,
using the pattern as a guide. Then cut out this top view with
gouge or knife as in Figure Four. With your gauges and
knife continue cutting the figure down to shape. Be careful
to get the correct shape and proportions. The legs and
ears are pretty fragile and can break easily if you cut too

deeply.

Figure Six shows how your “roughed-out” figure will
look. Hollow out the ears slightly with a U-gougembut
easy does it! From here on, the finish work is done with
rasps, files. and sandpaper. Use the fine rasps on back and

324

sides, the files around the legs, neck, head, ears, and eyes.

Make a straight file cut to indicate the mouth. Finally, take
the medium or coarse sandpaper and stroke it over the back,
sides, neck, and legs to simulate hair. Sand the base
smooth with fine paper. I use watercolor and tempera to
paint the figure, black India ink, for the black areas.
Spray the whole thing with varnish to “fix” the colors.
Being rough, the figure will appear dull; the base, on the
other hand, will appear shiny. When the varnish has dried,

you can apply furniture polish and really shine it up.

Iuck'. #-

A final word I Be careful with your carvinr‘r . . . and good

 

Reprinted with permission from. Pennsylvania Game News,
published by Pennsylvania Game Commission, Harrisburg.

RECREATION

  

Make sure that

PLAYGROUND
SUMMER NOTEBOOK

$2.50
($2.00 to NRA members)

Order from

National Recreation Association
8 West 8th Street, New York 10011

 

WHAT MAKES A GOOD PLAYGROUND?
GOOD LEADERS!

To help train better leaders—
to help provide better playground programs—

here’s a special bargain offer:

THE PLAYGROUND SERIES

1. The Playground Leader 50¢
2. Informal Dramatics 50¢
3. Storytelling 50¢
4. Simple Puppetry 50¢

In these invaluable little booklets, Virginia Musselman
shares with you the playground leadership techniques ac-
quired through her own experience and from top-flight
leaders all over the country. We’ll send you the complete
set for only $1.50 (a 25% discount) if you’ll send a check
or money order with your order to save us the cost of billing.
Send your order today to:

NATIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIATION
8 West Eighth Street, New York, N. Y. 10011

."---------’-¢’¢-------------’¢--.v-”----------”-””-’

t
o
o
o
o
t
o
t
o
o
o
o
o
t
t
o
t
t
o
o
o
o
o
t
t
t
o
o
o
3 $1.50
1
t
o
t
o
t
o
o
o
o
t
t
t
t
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
1.

.....¢......-.........................“

 

MEXICO l’ORGI‘L’s tee pee brings a contemporary flair to
the old, brown Indian tee pee with brilliant patches of RED,
YELLOIV AND BLUE steel panels. Installation and safety
facilities add to the attractiveness of the tee pee. It has a
GALVANIZED PIPE FRAME which allows an extra foot
to be inserted in concrete.

Complement this piece of equipment with one of the many
other MEXICO FORGE park pieces . . . they go together
like cowboys and Indians!

MEXICO FORGE INC.
REEDSVILLE, PA.

Fully tested in open seas
and inland lakes, Arben
buoys keep your water-
ways safely marked season after season.
Shipped to you completely assembled at
lower cost than reconditioning old buoys.

Tough Outer Shell
Urethane Foam-filled
Sectionized for Easy Maintenance

Stabilizing Float

Raised, Bright Markings

Write today for details and prices on these and
other Arben Marine Products. Dept. B.

rben Marine Products, Inc.
PO. Box 35055, Los Angeles, Calif. 90035

 

When writing to our advertisers please mention RECREATION.

Pamphlet Series—The Performing Arts as Recreation

NE‘V
DEVIENSIONS
IN

CULTURAL PROGRAMS . . .

get

a
new lift

with

 

MUSIC, DRAMA, DANCE and POETRY

Four Titles

No. I —\IUSIC IS RECREATION
No. II — DRAMA IS RECREATION
No. III — DANCE IS RECREATION
No. IV ——POETRY IS RECREATION

Use with
Your staff Your board or commission
Advisory Committees 44;" Citizen committees
Clubs Planning groups
And for
Fundraising Publicity Telling your story
Program Planning Education Selling recreation

Training of volunteers Promotion of bond issues

Current prices as applied to each title (Order in “am”? to”)

Single copies, $11.00; except Poetry, $.50 0 Set of four titles, $3.00
I] to 21» copies of the same title, $.85 each; Poetry, $.40 each 0

25 or more, $3.75 each; Poetry, 3.35 each

100 or ovor of the same title, $60 per hundred; Poetry, $30.00

 

Order from

VNTIONAL RECREATION ASSOCIA'I'ION 8 West 8th Street, New York, NY. 10011

